Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09337 WGS 2 Howl From The North ( Level 8 10)"
See other formats
WGS2 


An Adventure for 4-6 Characters of Levels 8*10 


9337 



Xdvanceci Dun^eons^Qra^ons 


ADVENTURE 


Official Game Adventure 


Howl From the 
North 


by Dale "Slade** Henson 


ISTftHjjlii 

EL 1 * 0 

IB I Bb 1 H 


[W-* 

PS**' 

lR:v 

L'^v. 

0L . T JjAl • 

J(| 

" h*5j[ 

¦ I 

m 

[fH 

l / Vb^SF" a 

(tm) • *. M 


. 


Kfl j \ , ¦ -._ - lTri " 














Advanced DunqeonsR^Pra^ons 

--- 2 "*** Edition 7 ^-"-' 


Official Game Adventure 


Howl From the North 















Credits 

Design: Dale "Slade" Henson 
Editing: Mike "Mike" Breault 
Cover Painting: Jeff Starlind 
Interior Art: Ken Frank 
Cartography: Diesel 

Typography: Angelika Lokot2 and Tracey Zamagne 
Keylining: Sarah Feggestad 

Graphic Design: Dee Barnett 

Thanks to: James Ward. David "Zeb" Cook. Timothy B. Brown. Carl 
Sargent 

Playtesters: Clayton Cox, Darrell Caldwell. Lori Strickland, Leslie 
Biffle, Stephanie Biffle, Sam Jones 


Copyright ^1991 TSR, Inc. AIJ Rights Reserved. Printed In the U.S.A, 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD MX G REV HAWK, and WORLD OP GREYHAWK 
are registered trademarks owned by TSR. Inc. 

The TSR logo is 3 trademark owned by TSR, Inc. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights In the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc 

Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors 
Distributed to the book and bobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the material 
or art work printed herein Is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc, 


TSR, Inc. 
FOB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
Wl53147 
U.S.A. 


TSR, Ltd. 

120 Church End, 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


9337XXX1401 
ISBN 1-5607ft-143*1 
$9.95 


2 



Howl From the North 


Tbble of Contents 

Introduction. .3 

Chapter 1: Beginnings . 6 

Chapter 2: The Road to Kelten .. ..8 

Chapter 3: Across the Frozen River...29 

Chapter 4: Return of the Great God ... 41 

Chapter 5: Should The Characters Fail ..43 

Combined Monster Statistics Chart. 48 

Monstrous Compendium Entry: Wolf....49 

Greyhawk Deity Overview. 51 

NPC Roster.52 

Pregenerated Player Characters . .. 54 

New Magical Items .60 


3 

















P l:' 

:.vi. . 

If 




¦ : V f ; !¦¦!¦¦: j 


Jf* 

W '" 






























































The Setting 

The WORLD OF GREYHAWK(r) boxed set 
is useful as general background to this 
adventure, but isn't required to play it. 

The information given in this pack tells 
you ail you need to know to run the ad 
venture smoothly. However, if you want to 
convert the adventure for use outside the 
Greyhawk world, you will need to read the 
material below on barbarians and the bar 
barian lands of Greyhawk. and consider 
carefully how to set this adventure in an 
other game world. 

The Barbarian Lands of 
Greyhawk 

TO understand the broad themes of this 
trilogy, it's necessary for you to have an 
understanding of barbarian cultures and 
lands in eastern Oerik. The pregenerated 
PCs are mostly barbarians and their inte 
gration into the adventure is also impor 
tant in this context. You should consider 
briefing players of barbarian PCs on the 
genera! and historical background given 
here, since their PCs would be aware of 
this information. 

This section also Includes a historical 
update from the boxed set. This adventure 
trilogy is set in CY582. six years past the 
final timeline in the boxed set. The recent 
political developments within the barbari 
an lands, including their alliances with 
other nations, form a crucial part of the 
backdrop to this adventure. 

All the barbarian peoples of eastern 
Oerik are pure Suloise. The Suel people 
dominate the islands off the coast of east 
ern Oerik and in the lands of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood. There are three barbarian 
races of importance to this adventure. 

The Frost Barbarians (including the pre 
generated player characters), or Fruztii, 
call their land Rhizia, though other races 
refer to it simply as the Land of the Frost 
Barbarians. The Fruztii are the weakest of 
the three barbarian nations and are tech- 


Introduetion 


Howl From the North is the second in a 
trilogy of modules set in the northeastern 
lands of Oerik, in the world of Greyhawk. 

The trilogy began with the Five Shah Be 
One adventure module, and concludes 
with the GREYHAWK (r) Wars boxed set. 

In Five Shall Be One, the player 
characters-supplied in the back of this 
book-are hired to locate the five Blades of 
Corusk. They located only three during 
the course of that adventure. Howl From 
the North continues this search, enabling 
the characters to locate the remaining two 
swords. 


Who Should Read this Module 

Modules are designed for the Dungeon 
Master's eyes. The whole adventure, from 
each pitfall to the exact location of the hid 
den treasure, is laid out for easy reference. 
When players read the adventure before 
they play it. the fun, excitement, and ten 
sion vanish. They know where every hid 
den monster lies and where every bandit 
awaits in ambush. 

The Dungeon Master also loses out 
when a player reads the adventure before 
hand. There is no pleasure in running an 
adventure in which the players cannot be 
challenged, Running an adventure in 
which a player knows the course of events 
is as frustrating as running one in which a 
player character has every known magical 
item. 

Please be a thoughtful player, and do 
not spoil the fun for yourself, the other 
players, and your Dungeon Master. 

Should you purchase this adventure be 
fore play, resist the temptation to scan 
through it until your group has played it. 
Your Dungeon Master and fellow players 
will thank you. 


nically vassals of the more powerful Snow 
Barbarians. This is an important aspect of 
Frost Barbarian psychology: The Fruztii 
chafe at their subservience and resent the 
overlordship of their eastern cousins. 

The Snow Barbarians , or Schnai, are the 
most powerful and populous group, domi 
nating Grendep Bay and the northern 
Solnor Ocean with their longships. Their 
marauding armies, along with those of the 
Ice Barbarians, have made these savages a 
major force in the land. 

As of yet their successes have been 
modest, but this adventure may change 
all that.... 

The Ice Barbarians are unsteady allies 
of the other barbarians, raiding where and 
when they please. 

To update events from CY576, the time 
of the boxed set, the barbarians have 
made gains during the last six years. The 
alliance between Ratik and the Frost Bar 
barians against the humanoids of the 
Bone March has borne fruit over years of 
cooperation. The forces of Ratik now occu 
py the Loftwood and are preparing for a 
major assault on the city of Johnsport, 
backed by a naval attack along the coast 
to the east. 

The other joint operation of these states 
has been against the Hold of Stonefist. 
Fruztii forces have now secured the pass 
south of the Hraak Forest and control the 
lands for 20 miles around. 

The Ice Barbarians have supported the 
Fruztii to some extent by making naval 
raids along the northern coast of Stonefist. 
The Snow Barbarians have concentrated 
their attacks on the Great Kingdom and 
Sea Baron shipping, although some of the 
Schnai are assisting the Frost Barbarians 
in the Hold of Stonefist. 

Rumors say that the King of the Snow 
Barbarians was not pleased by a plan for 
the three barbarian groups to ally with 
Ratik. Not that he didn't trust the Baron of 
Ratik, who proposed the plan, but for sim 
pler reasons. Major invasions in the Bone 


March would drive tens of thousands of 
humanoids into the North Province and 
might precipitate an attack from the Great 
Kingdom. The King, being wily and crafty, 
prefers not to attract the Great Kingdom's 
full attention just now. 

One final piece of the puzzle is the atti 
tude of the Duchy of Tfenh. Duke Ehyeh 
has become noticeably more friendly to 
the Frost Barbarians of late. As the actions 
of Ratik and the Frost Barbarians stir up 
the Bone March, this causes trouble for 
the Great Kingdom and for the Theocracy 
of the Pale. Both states have hostile atti 
tudes toward the Duchy. In view of this, 
Ehyeh discreetly allows Frost Barbarian 
emissaries across his lands to organize 
shipments of weapons from the Bandit 
Kingdoms. 

From here, weapons make their way up 
the Zumker River to Calbut and then 
through dangerous foothill territory at the 
very edge of the Griff Mountains to the 
pass at Kelten. The trade is discreet, but 
everyone knows about it. This is where 
the player characters enter the story. 


The pregenerated characters detailed at 
the end of this book are mostly barbari 
ans. This adventure could be run with 
non-barbarian characters, but barbarian 
characters have a much stronger motiva 
tion to accept this quest. 

There is a special problem with non- 
barbarian characters. Since one goal of 
this adventure trilogy is the ceremonial 
awakening of the Great God of the barbari 
an people, a priest of a non-barbarian dei 
ty would be reluctant to aid in this 
endeavor. Players are thus urged to use 
barbarian characters (either pregenerated 
or created by the players). Note also that 
the encounters in this adventure with un 
dead are more dangerous if the party lacks 
a priest-if the party does have a priest, 
the number of undead opponents should 


Barbarian Adventurers 


6 




A Special Note to the DM 

While the PCs believe they are attempting 
to awaken the Great God, in actuality the 
being who will answer the call is luz. This 
is part of Iuz's greater plan, and should 
not be revealed to the players. 


be increased. 

A problem with barbarian characters is 
their alignment. The boxed set notes that 
the predominant alignment of barbarians 
is Chaotic Neutral. The pregenerated PCs 
are mostly of Neutral alignment with NG 
and CN both represented. 

Players should be clear about what this 
alignment means. Neutral-aligned barbari 
ans are self-reliant, independent, proud, 
and do not put up with nonsense from 
anyone. They are also very loyal to their 
tribe, their chieftain, and their compan 
ions. Part of being a barbarian is the pride 
of being a member of a "superior" tribe. 
Thus, in spite of their Neutral alignment, 
these adventurers should cooperate and 
show loyalty to each other. 

The second difficulty with the pregener 
ated characters is the inclusion of a bard. 
Bards, as the Player's Handbook notes, 
learn a little bit of everything. There is 
scripted information about what the bard 
may learn of the Blades of Corusk: dis 
pensing some of this may help to develop 
the sense of discovery and unfolding mys 
tery that will keep the adventure fresh 
and compelling. If there is no bard charac 
ter, this information will be difficult for 
you to feed to players. 

Finally, note that barbarians have a 
form of speech--the Cold Tongue-that 
derives from Old Suloise. Very few people 
other than barbarians are able to speak or 
understand this language, although NPC 
exceptions are noted in the text. Speaking 
the Cold Tbngue gives the characters- 
save for Stumred the Dwarf-a channel of 
secret communication between them 
selves. You should check with the charac 
ters whether they are speaking in 
Common or in Cold Tongue in certain so 
cial situations. Speaking the Cold Tbngue 
may give the characters privacy, but it 
may offend those excluded from the con 
versation. 


7 







Chapter 1. 
Beginnings 

If the players did not play the first 
module. Five Shall Be One 


than the welfare of our great nation. 

"At this moment, they revel in the 
admiration of their home villages, but 
soon their glory shall be eclipsed by the 
heroes who find the last two blades and 
awaken the Great God. Do you wish to 
be those heroes?" 


If the players were unable to adventure 
through the first module, the player char 
acters are in the city of Rookroost, where 
they are approached by a half-elven mage 
named Mallon Fer'Asque. This man is de 
tailed in the NPC Roster on page 52. 


Mallon waits patiently for the characters 
to discuss this proposal. If the characters 
agree to take on the mission. Mallon con 
tinues. 


TWo men. one a half-elf and the other 
an old human male with barbarian fea 
tures. walk into Rookroost. A group of 
elite barbarian fighters and rangers 
walks with them. Three of these men 
carry huge swords. 

These blades must be of great value, 
because these men handle them with 
extreme care. They are taken to the 
chieftain's yurt where they disappear 
from sight. Soon thereafter, the frail- 
looking half-elven man approaches you. 

"We need to retrieve two more magi 
cal items for the tribe, and the chieftain 
has demanded that you should be the 
first ones asked. Do you wish your 
names entered in our tribe's tale of he 
roes?" 


"The chieftain was wise, as usual, in 
choosing you for the task. I shall tell 
you what has gone before. 

"We started from here. Rookroost, 
and traveled some 240 miles to the 
Shadow Caverns past Narleon. We 
fought a shadow dragon named 
Szeverin and found a great treasure, 
including the first blade. Its name is 
Dream singer. 

"We then traveled north across the 
Bluff Hills, heading toward White 
Fanged Bay. Here we found that Karas* 
ten Meldraith, my master and traveling 
companion, possessed Greenswathe. 
the second of the five blades. 

"Karasten knew somewhat of the lo 
cation of the third sword. Using this in 
formation, we traveled to Garel Enkdal, 
a holy and underground orcish city, 
where we had to sneak in under the 
guise of illusion. We barely escaped with 
our lives. This sword is Stalker. 

"We have learned that the fourth 
blade. The Edge, is owned by a barbari 
an chieftain. This man and his clan 
were exiled by the Snow Barbarians 
long ago. and they supposedly live 
north of Kelten. a city south of the 
Hraak Forest. This man will not give the 
blade up easily, but we must have it. 
Furthermore, we believe that this blade 


If the characters ask for more details 
the man continues. 


"There are five Blades of Corusk. 
These five swords are the birthright of 
our people. Three have been found so 
far: only two remain. The men who 
found the first three with my master 
and I have declined to retrieve the re 
maining two. I do not know if they have 
turned coward, or if they have other 
things to do that are more important 


8 






to kill them. 

The ores are doing everything in their 
power to locate the player characters to 
get the sword back. The other two Blades 
of Corusk are viewed as bonuses. This 
massive man-hunt means that there will 
be an increase in ore encounters. 

As a side effect of the teleport, the char 
acters had their hit point totals halved 
from their current levels -fractions 
rounded up. with -2 penalties to Lheir 
Strength and Constitution for 24 hours. 
There are no saving throws allowed to 
counter these effects. (This is dictated in 
the last parts of the previous module.) 

As mentioned at the conclusion of Five 
Shall be One . the Dungeon Master should 
allow the PCs to find a safe haven to rest 
and recuperate. During this intermission, 
the characters are instructed that their 
next destination is the city of Kelten. 

Karasten tells the characters, "I have 
learned that the fourth blade. The Edge , is 
owned by a barbarian chieftain. This man 
and his clan were exiled by the Snow Bar 
barians years ago. and they supposedly 
live north of Kelten. a city south of the 
Hraak Forest. This man will not be willing 
to give it up. but we must have it. I believe 
that The Edge will lead us to the fifth and 
final blade. Unfortunately, the city of 
Kelten is 480 long, dreary miles away." 


shall lead us to the fifth and final sword. 

"Once we have all five together, a po 
tent magical ritual wrought with danger 
is to be enacted to call the Great God, 
who can lead the barbarians on a quest 
to find their birthright." 


When the characters are ready to pro 
ceed with the adventure, as most loyal 
and honor-driven barbarians would be. 
the Dungeon Master should proceed to 
Chapter 2. "The Road to Kelten," to get 
the adventure started. The players should 
be given time to get any supplies they 
need. They have nearly 810 miles to trav 
el to reach their destination. 

If the characters need help buying their 
supplies. Mall on gives them the money. 
(He does this under the pretense that he 
shall be repaid when the characters come 
into money during the course of the ad 
venture, but he never mentions repay 
ment when the characters do have 
money.) 

Before they depart Rookroost. the char 
acters are given the three recovered 
Blades of Corusk. These are needed to lo 
cate the remaining two swords. The bar 
barians explain the swords' known 
powers to the characters as well (see page 
60). The human mage Karasten joins the 
party (see page 53). 

Meanwhile, orcish hunting parties are 
out looking for the people who stole their 
blades. The characters, now in possession 
of the blades, are prime targets for their 
vengeance. 

If the players played the first module. 
Five Shall Be One 


If the characters experienced the first 
module in this trilogy, they are currently 
20 miles northeast of the ores' holy city of 
Garel Enkdal. The three swords together 
teleported them away at the last minute, 
just as an swarm of angry ores threatened 




Monster Statistics chart on page 48. De 
tails of certain key random encounters 
follow the encounter tables. 

When the characters are not in a hill, 
mountain, or forested area, use the Wil 
derness table to determine the random 
encounter. In forested areas, use the For 
est table, and so on. This gives the charac 
ters the freedom to choose their own 
routes and thus determine the type of en 
counters they experience. This effectively 
gives them the feeling that they are deter 
mining their own fates, which they are. 


Chapter 2. 

The Road to Kelten 


The city of Rookroost is located north of 
the Bandit Kingdoms and east of the 
Fellreev Forest. This is the starting loca 
tion if the players did not play the first 
module. 

If the characters are continuing the ad 
venture started in Five Shall Be One, they 
begin north of the Rovers of the Barrens, 
northeast of the Forlorn Forest and just 
south of the White Fanged Bay. This is 
only an approximate location. 

From these locations, the Dungeon Mas 
ter should be able to determine what ter 
rain the characters need to traverse in 
order to get to the city of Kelten, south of 
the Hraak Forest, 

Once the characters are under way, the 
Dungeon Master should refer to the stand 
ard rules for cross-country movement 
from the Player's Handbook or the 
Dungeon Master's Guide, The DMG also 
includes additional rules for mounts if the 
characters are using them. (If not, their 
trip will take quite a long time.) The 
Dungeon Master should roll for random 
encounters during the trip. 


Random Encounter Table 1: 
Wilderness 

D100 Encounter 

01-10 Bandit (ld6+4 of ld4 + 3 Lvls) 
11-15 Centaur (ld6+I) 

16-25 Flind (2d 10) 

26-30 Giant. Hill (ld4) 

31-35 Giant-kin. Verbeeg (ld6) 

36-44 Gnoll (2d 10) 

45-53 Gnoll (2d6) + Flind (2d6J 
54-60 Ogre(ld6+4) 

61-70 Ore (3d4 +6) 

71-80 TVoll (ld6) 

81-82 Wyvern(l) 

83 Wyvern (ld2) 

84-95 Wolf (ldl0 + 10, see p. 49) 
96-00 Re-roll twice 


Encounters 

You can use the encounter frequency 
system shown in the Dungeon Master's 
Guide, or you can approximate and make 
ld3 encounter checks per day with a 50% 
chance per check of an encounter occur 
ring, by using the following charts. 
Planned encounters are dealt with in their 
appropriate locations throughout the mod 
ule. 

Do not overdo random encounters or 
use them inappropriately. If the random 
rolls toss many tough encounters at a 
weakened party, weed out some, except 
the ore hunting parties explained below. 
Statistics for monsters can be found in the 


Random Encounter Table 2: 

Hills 

DlOO Encounter 

01-10 Bandit (ld6 + 4 of ld4 + 3 Lvls) 
11-15 Bugbear (2d8) 

16-25 Flind (2d 10) 

26-30 Ghoul (ld6 + 2) 

31-35 Giant. Hill (ld6) 

36-45 Gnoll [2d 10) 

46-50 Gnoll (2d8) + Flind (2d6) 
51-55 Goblin (2d 12) + Worg (ld6) 
56-61 Griffon (ld4) 

62-65 Ogre (ld6+4) 

66-75 Ore (3d6+4) 

76-80 TYoll (ld6) 

81-85 Tl*oll (ld6 + 2) 

86-90 Tyrg (ld6) 

91-92 Wight (ld6) 

93-95 Wolf (Id 10+ 10: seep. 49) 
96-00 Worg (ld8 +6) 

Random Encounter lible 3: 
Forest 

DlOO Encounter 

01-10 Badger, Giant (ld4 +2) 

11-15 Beetle. Stag (ld6) 

16-25 Ettin (ld4) 

26-35 Hangman Tree (ld2) 

36-45 Harpy (Id 10) 

46-50 Kech (ld6 + 2) 

51-55 Ogre (ld6 + 3) 

56-60 Ore (3d6 + 6) 

61-70 Owlbear (ld6 + 2) 

71-80 Small Mammal (ld4) 

81-85 TTeant(ld2) 

86-90 Ttoll {1 d6) 

91-95 Wolfwere (ld3) 

96-00 Wyvern (1) 


Random Encounter Thble 4: 
Mountains 

DlOO Encounter 

01-05 Bear. Cave (ld3) 

06-10 Bugbear (2dl0) 

11-15 Crystalmist 

16-18 Galeb Duhr, 8 HD (ld4) 

19-20 Galeb Duhr, 10 HD (ld3) 

21-25 Giant. Hill (ld6 + 1) 

26-28 Giant, Hill (ld4 +2) 

29-35 Giant, Stone (ld6) 

36-40 Giant-kin. Verbeeg (ld6+ 2) 

41-45 Gnoll (2d 10+ 2) 

46-48 Lion, Mountain (ld6+ 2} 

49-50 Lion, Spotted (ld6 + 1) 

51-55 Ogre (ld6 +4) 

56-58 Ogre (2d4 +4) 

59-60 Ogre (ld6 + 3) + Ogre Mage (1) 
61-65 Ore (6d4) 

66-70 Ore (6d6) 

71-75 Ther (2d4) 

76-80 Troll(ld4+2) 

81-85 Troll, TWo-Headed (ld4) 

86-88 Tyrg (ld4 + 2) 

89-90 Urd, ld4 + 1 HD (4d6) 

91-94 Wight (ld6) 

95-96 Wolf (Id 10 + 10: see p. 49) 

97-98 Worg (3d6) 

99-00 Wyvern (ld3) 

Random Encounter Notes 

Ores: There has been a significant in 
crease in orcish activities in the area sur 
rounding the Bluff Hills. These areas 
include the Rovers of the Barrens, the 
Duchy of Tfenh, and the mountains adja 
cent to the Bluff Hills. The areas north of 
the Frozen River, however, see no such 
increase. The news regarding the theft of 
a powerful and magical sword from the 
holy orcish city of Garel Enkdal has cre 
ated a massive, all-out hunt for the thieves 
in the listed areas. (When the party is out 
side these areas, the Dungeon Master 
should trim the ore band by ld6.) 

It does not matter whether the charac 
ters are responsible for the burglary in the 






first module or not. They now have the 
prized item, and every ore for miles is on 
the hunt. During orcish confrontations, 
treat the ores' morale as ld4 categories 
higher than normal. 

While in combat with a party of ores, 
there is a 10% chance that another orcish 
hunting party hears the battle. If this Is 
the case, these ores arrive in Id 10 rounds 
to join the fray. The Dungeon Master 
should determine the party size in the 
same manner as for the first ore band. 

Bandits: The bandits tend to be groups 
of ld6+4 warriors, each of levels ld4 + 3. 
Assume that the bandits all have the fol 
lowing statistics: +1 to attack and dam 
age rolls, because of their above-average 
Strengths. They use long swords and long 
bows, wear chain mail, and use shields 
(base Armor Class of 4), If you want to add 
some extra detail, 25% of the bandits have 
Dexterity scores of 14 + ld4. This reduces 
their Armor Class by 1 per pip on the d4. 
Also, 25% of the bandits have Constitu 
tion scores of 14 + ld4. This adds 1 hit 
point per level per pip on the d4. 

Bandits may be renegades or agents of a 
petty fief (50%) attempting to extract tolls 
for allowing safe passage. All other ban 
dits are attacking in hopes of robbing the 
characters, killing them if necessary. Most 
bandit encounters should offer the charac 
ters a chance to evade combat by paying 
up if they wish to do so. 

Wolves: It is suggested the Dungeon 
Master use the wolf entry provided on 
page 49 when the characters encounter 
wolf packs or lone wolves. This gives the 
game a more realistic flavor when dealing 
with nature's most important predator. 

A chance exists that the characters will 
come across a rabid wolf. Rabid wolves 
are solitary creatures, kicked out of the 
pack because of the insanity brought on 
by the disease. There is a 1 % chance that 
a solitary wolf is rabid. 


Planned Encounters: 

During the journey to the city of Kelten, 
the characters run into three planned en 
counters. TWo of these encounters are 
tougher than the random encounters 
above and require additional information 
for the Dungeon Master to run smoothly. 
The DM should keep in mind that if the 
characters are greatly weakened by ran 
dom encounters, he should wait until 
they've healed up before springing on 
them the bandits from Encounter 1 or the 
ore attack from Encounter 2. 

Encounter 1: The Bandit Prince 

The bandits in this encounter have 
somehow found out about the swords the 
PCs are carrying. This encounter is de 
signed to begin as the characters wake up, 
still slightly groggy from the night's sleep. 

The man who runs the show, the Bandit 
Prince, feels that he deserves the swords, 
and nothing is going to stop him from get 
ting them. The Dungeon Master should 
read the following boxed text to the 
players. 


Dawn breaks and the sun begins illu 
minating the landscape. The campfire 
slowly cooks your food, sending plumes 
of scented smoke into the air. The wind 
blows a cool breeze across a nearby 
river. 

You suddenly hear the whinnying of 
horses and the rattle of bits against 
bridles coming from the south. As you 
turn around, you see seven riders ap 
proaching. The leader is a noble-looking 
elf, dressed in brilliant armor that per 
fectly reflects the clear sky. 

As this group approaches your en 
campment. the leader stops his horse 
and signals for his six human compan 
ions to do the same. "I understand that 
you have three blades in your posses- 


12 







v 's ¦, m ^ jJuV 


trt.fi- P 




If the characters ask the elf why he be 
lieves the swords are his, he says, "The 
barbarian nations have been purchasing 
weapons from the Bandit Kingdoms, and 
we have not been paid for quite some 
time. The agreement signed between our 
two nations dictates that failure to pay 
forfeits the barbarians' right to the Blades 
of Corusk. 

"The barbarians' failure to pay us 
means that these blades now belong to the 
Bandit Kingdoms. Hand them over now!" 

Mallon. the NPC with the characters 
tells them that the barbarians purchase 
weapons and armor from the Bandit King 
doms, but he has never heard of this 
agreement. 


If the PCs do not relinquish the blades, 
the mounted bandits charge the charac 
ters with weapons held high, their clean 
and polished blades flickering in the early 
dawn light. They attempt to surround the 
characters to lessen the damage from 
area-effect spells. 

Bandits (6): Int Very to Highly (11-14): 

AL NE; AC 2 (0 when attacking from 
horse): MV 12 (15 on horse): HD F8: 
THACO 13: hp 68: MT 3/2: Dmg ld8 or 
ld4: SA three are dual-classed warrior/ 
wizards (8th level in each class); SZ M (6' 
tall): ML Champion (15-16); XP 975 each 

Elven Bandit Prince: Int Highly (14): AL 
NE: AC 0 (-2 when attacking from horse); 
MV 12 (15 on horse): HD FI 2; THACO 9; 
hp 96: #AT 2: Dmg Id8/ld8 or Id4/ld4; 
SZ M (6' tall): MR 90% resistant to charm- 
related and sleep spells: ML Champion 
(16): XP 2,000 


sion that rightfully belong to us. By 
handing them over to me, you can save 
your lives. Failure to do so means you 
will all die." 







strengths of the barbarian people. The 
Great Kingdom has heard the stories of 
the barbarian search for the Blades of 
Corusk, and it worries them. At present, 
they are amassing a huge army to move 
northward and crush the barbarian peo 
ple before the savages have a chance to 
awaken their god. 

The ores have alerted all their kin to the 
theft by the barbarians. They are look 
ing for the swords, determined to recov 
er them. 


War Horses, Medium (7): Int Animal (1) 
AL N: AC 7; MV 18 (15 when ridden); HD 
2 + 2; THACO 19: hp 15; #AT 3; Dmg ld6/ 
Id6/ld4; SZ L; ML Unsteady (5-7); XP 65 
each 


The Bandit Prince carries a scimitar +1 
that he wields on horseback. He also car 
ries a standard long sword and a dagger of 
venom +2 (fully charged), enabling him to 
make four poisoned strikes. These strikes 
demand that the victim roll a successful 
saving throw vs. poison with a -2 penalty 
or die. The six bandits who follow the 
Prince use standard long swords and car 
ry daggers + 1. 

When the bandits on horseback success 
fully attack a character, the horses also 
get a chance to attack. A natural 20 attack 
roll from a horse means that the victim is 
knocked down and trampled for 2d6 addi 
tional points of damage. 

The bandits stay on horseback to attack 
as long as their mounts live. Should the 
horse die in combat, the rider must roll a 
Dexterity Check (assume the Dexterity is 
2d6+6). If the check fails, the bandit re 
ceives ld8 points of damage and must 
spend ld4 rounds getting out from under 
the body of the dead horse. During this 
time, the bandit can spend the round ei 
ther attempting to escape, or he can de 
fend himself (he can't attack). If no 
defensive action occurs, the bandit's Ar 
mor Class is penalized by +4. 

If the characters are very successful 
against the bandits, have at least one of 
the six men drop his weapon and uncondi 
tionally surrender (the Bandit Prince will 
not give up). If the characters interrogate 
him, he gives them the loll owing informa 
tion. 


Encounter 2: 

The Ore Raiding Party 

These ores are very serious about re 
gaining the swords. The possibility of the 
barbarians suddenly becoming much 
more powerful is very frightening to them 
and they want to nip that prospect in the 
bud. The Dungeon Master should read 
this section once the characters come 
within 100 miles of the Frozen River. 


As you trudge to your destination, 
you see a pig-like face peek above a 
small dune ahead of you. This face 
quickly ducks back down once it sees 
you. All around you, the smoothly slop 
ing hills of the plains reveal nothing 
more. 


Within one round, the characters hear 
the sounds of horns blasting from in front 
of them. These horns are answered by 
other horns to the left and from the right. 


As the echoes of the horns die, the din 
of battle cries and thundering feet can 
be heard. From ahead of you and from 
both sides, an army of ores rushes in 
your direction. They wave their nasty, 
rusted weapons, and their corroded 
teeth gnash at the air. 


• The Bandit Prince just wanted the 
swords. As far as the bandit knows, the 
barbarian tribes have not reneged on the 
weapons agreement. 

• They were sent to determine the 


14 





will attack the ores if all the swords are 
found. 


The ores spend one or two rounds 
launching arrows at the characters to 
weaken them before they close. After the 
arrows are fired, the characters see 20 
ores heading toward them from the front 
and 15 from each side. The ores from the 
side try to surround the characters and 
close off the rear escape route. This takes 
a total of 2d4 rounds. If the characters try 
to escape by retreating, they can do so in 
ld6 rounds. If the ores' roll (for surround 
ing the party) is less than the characters' 
roll (to escape), the ores close off the re 
treat route before the PCs can escape. 

If the characters are unable to escape, 
the statistics for the ores are given in the 
Combined Monster Statistics Chart (see 
page 48). Their morale is average (8-10), 
but after at least six ores fall victim to the 
weapons of the characters, the ores' mo 
rale drops to unsteady (5-7). 

The ores' first targets are the charac 
ters' mounts and draft animals. They are 
trying to slow the party down to better 
their chances at capturing the Blades of 
Corusk. 

The ores carry war hammers, long 
bows, spears, and short swords that inflict 
ld4 + l, ld4, ld4. and ld6 points of dam 
age, respectively. When the ores attack, 
ld6 can attack a single mounted charac 
ter and ld4 ores can attack a dismounted 
character at a time. 

If the characters win the fight, let at 
least one ore surrender. This ore releases 
his weapon and begs for mercy. If the 
characters question him, he can give 
them the following information- 
speaking in the orcish tongue or broken 
Common. 


Encounter 3: 

The Scout From the South 

When the characters are about 50 miles 
from Kelten, they hear the crackle of 
branches within a clump of bushes. If they 
look toward the sound, they see several 
branches briefly wave in the hushes to 
their right. 

If they inspect the noise, a man dressed 
in green, loose-fitting clothing jumps up 
from the bushes. He screams meaningless 
words of caution and death at them, and 
then he runs away to the south, in the 
general direction of the Griff Mountains. 
This man moves at a rate of 9. He carries 
no visible weapons, but he does have a 
small satchel with several tubes jutting 
from its poorly closed flap. 

If the characters chase after him on foot, 
they catch up in ld8 + 6 rounds. If on 
horseback, they can catch him in ld4 +2 
rounds. Once caught, the man cowers, 
shielding his face and neck with wildly 
flailing arms. 

The man continues this defensive action 
until the characters leave or until they 
assure him that they are not going to hurt 
him. When he has this assurance, his ten 
sion eases a bit, but his morale is still un 
reliable (2). 

If the characters ask him any questions, 
he answers them quickly and tells them 
all he knows. He speaks fluent Common. 


He is a forward scout for Ratik, a nation 
south of the barbarian lands and east of 
the Theocracy of the Pale, 

He was sent to scout out the best possi 
ble paths to attack the Hold of Stonefist 
and the Frost Barbarians. After Ratik 
conquers the North Province, they plan 
to lay claim to the whole eastern section 
of the continent. 


The ores are following and attacking the 
characters to gain the blades. They fear 
the barbarians will ravage their lands 
once the PCs find all the swords. 

The ores know of an agreement between 
the Theocracy of the Pale and the bar 
barians. They believe that both nations 



nates the frozen landscape. There are 
about two hours of twilight, and the rest of 
the day is spent in darkness. However, the 
stars are unusually bright, allowing some 
limited sight. 

While the characters are in Kelten, they 
can ask questions regarding their quest if 
they choose. The Dungeon Master should 
not ask the characters if they wish to in 
terrogate the Kelten people. If they ask 
questions, the people respond only if the 
characters speak to them in the Cold 
Tongue-and only if a Reaction Check is 
favorable. Below is a list of possible an 
swers that the people will give. 

• Kabloona Starskull is the barbarian 
chieftain. He received his first name be 
cause his skin and the whites of his eyes 
are unusually white, especially when 
compared to the yellowed eyes and skin 
of the native northern folk. 

He obtained his last name because spir 
its touched him years ago. His mind lives 
in the stars of the Swan themselves. This 
makes it hard for him to think and to react 
properly while with normal folk. (Kab 
loona went insane soon after he was driv 
en from his tribe.) 

• Kabloona has created his own tribe to 
worship He-Who-Slices-Through- 

G lacier-And-Fro 2 en-Caribou-Like-Warm- 
Blubber. 

• The nearest barbarian tribe lives directly 
north of Kelten. It is off the beaten track, 
but a sledge team-rented from the man 
who is talking to the characters-can 
take them there with little effort. They 
live in a region south of the forest where 
the ice and snow never melt. (This is 
false. The man Is only trying to get the 
characters to rent or buy a dog-sled 
team, which will cost them 30 gp or 120 
gp, respectively.) 

The Kelten natives ask questions of the 
characters. They are curious regarding 
the PCs' preoccupation with Kabloona. If 
any character mentions that they are 


If the characters inspect the contents of 
his satchel, they find several hand-drawn 
maps of the northeastern section of Oerik. 
If the characters decide to keep these, the 
Dungeon Master should give the players 
any information they want about the ge 
ography and political boundaries of north 
eastern Oerik. 


Reaching Kelten 

When the characters enter the region 
around the city of Kelten. the Dungeon 
Master should slop checking for random 
encounters. This region is more popu 
lated, and the monsters and wildlife have 
left to find lairs In less settled areas. 

The map on page 17 shows the area sur 
rounding the city of Kelten. It does not go 
into great detail about the barbarian en 
campment 20 miles north of the city, but 
it does show the camp's estimated loca 
tion. On this map, every hexagon is 
roughly five miles across. The grid in the 
city's hex shows the general layout of 
Kelten's streets. 

Kelten houses nearly 1,000 persons, 
mostly of barbarian ancestry. A few refu 
gees from the Hold of Stonefist have set 
tled here as well. Weapons of all types can 
be seen in Kelten. mainly designed for 
northern living-spears, ice picks, ice 
saws. etc. Dried vegetables and meats are 
big items here; cold-weather clothes are 
popular commodities, too. Parkas lined 
with wolverine fur are the best clothing 
value to be found in these parts. (Wolver 
ine fur in the lining of the parka hood 
keeps moisture from building up on its 
surface.) 

If the characters are looking for a warm, 
safe place to rest, several inns are availa 
ble. Their services cost double what 
southern inns charge, but the food and 
beds provided are of a comparable quality. 

Up in these northern latitudes, the sun 
comes up for only a short time each day. 
At most, three hours of sunlight illumi 






p KEUCEN Ciry AND ENVIRONS 

p p p P ^ P P P ^ P 

P p p P P .... " P P 

HRAAK FOREST P S P ^ 

^ ^ ^ _ BarcbaniaN V 

C p V V ENCaMpMGNt 

0 P P 


5 Miles 


looking for a sword, magical sword, or a 
barbarian sword, there is a 75% chance 
that Kabloona or his men hear about it. 
The man who finds this out (75% chance) 
rushes to report this information to the 
barbarian chieftain. 


If Kabloona finds out that the characters 
are looking for his blade, he sends a raid 
ing party to intercept them. The PCs meet 
this group about ten miles outside the 
Kelten city limits. Once the PCs are ten 
miles out. the Dungeon Master should 
read the following. 


Tbn miles away, you sec the outline oi 
a thick forest. About you. a few pine 
trees encroach upon the flat plains. To 
the left and right, several red rock for 
mations jut from the smooth ground. 

Suddenly, a dozen Frost Barbarians 


step out in front of you. They cautiously 
place their hands on their hilts and look 
about to see if there are others of your 
party in the distance. They slowly ap 
proach, seeming to smell the air as they 
walk. Off in the distance ahead of you, a 
wolf howls, calling for his companions. 
Within seconds, several others answer, 
and then there is silence. 


The approaching barbarians ignore the 
PCs' attempts to converse. They continue 
to approach even if the characters yell at 
them or reach for their weapons. When 
the barbarians are within 30 feet of the 
characters, they scream a battle cry and 
rush the party. The PCs' horses must roll 
Morale Checks when the barbarians 
scream. All who fail immediately bolt 
away from the barbarians. The following 
chart shows the morale ratings of different 
types of horses. 


The Trail North 


17 






Horse Type 

Draft 

Heavy War 

Medium War 

Light War 

Mule 

Pony 

Riding 

Wild 


Morale 

Unsteady (5-7) 
Steady ( i 1-12) 
Average (8-10) 
Average (8-10) 
Unsteady (5-7) 
Unreliable (2-4) 
Unsteady (5-7) 
Unreliable (2-4) 


Barbarians (12): Int Verv to Highly (11- 
14); ALCN. LN; AC 1: MV 12: HD F7; 
THACO 14: hp 52; #AT 3/2: Dmg ld8: SZ 
M (6' tall): ML Champion (15-16): XP 650 
each 

The Dungeon Master should not roll Mo 
rale Checks for these barbarians-they 
fully believe in the sanctity of their cause. 
Their leader. Kabloona. has sent them on 
a holy mission: to defend the sword of He- 
Who-Slices-Through-Glacier-And-Frozen- 
Caribou-Like-Warm-Blubber, a holy relic 
of this new barbarian tribe. 

These barbarians, realizing their leader 
was touched by spirits, know that what 
ever he says comes from their deity. (They 
do not know that he is insane. They mere 
ly think he communicates with the gods, 
which explains why he talks with beings 
who are invisible.) 

The barbarians all carry long swords. 
There is a 15% chance per barbarian that 
the sword is a long sword + 1 . If the d 100 
roll is less than 7. the weapon is a long 
sword +2. If the dlOO roll is a 1. the weap 
on is a long sword +3. The Dungeon Mas 
ter should choose a special purpose for 
this enhanced weapon. 

The Dungeon Master should allow one 
barbarian opponent to survive the battle. 
This way, the characters can find out 
some valuable information. The character 
drops his weapon and waits for the char 
acters to slay him. If they do not, he mut 
ters, "Why have the vile demons not slain 
me?" under his breath, just loud enough 
for the characters to hear. 


If the PCs respond favorably to the com 
ment, again the man is surprised. "You do 
not appear to be evil. No, it cannot be! You 
are playing games just as the Kabloona 
has said." 

If the characters ask why the barbarians 
attacked them, the barbarian states. "We 
are on a holy mission to stop the Evil 
God's desire to get the Blade of Corusk. 

You are his instruments! Beware, if you 
are not evil. He will destroy your souls, 
tormenting you until the end of time! 

''By trying to get the Blade of Corusk, 
you are sending the Hold of Stonefist 
against us. They fear what would happen 
if the Evil God were to take possession of 
the sword." 

If the PCs ask his name, he refuses to 
say. He claims that if the PCs come to 
know his name, the Evil God would also 
know. If the PCs start casting any spells, 
the man screams in horror, pulls a blade 
from his boot, and throws it toward the 
spellcaster with a -1 penalty to the attack 
roll. He also hopes the characters finish 
him off so his name remains unrevealed. 

The rest of the trip north to the barbari 
an encampment is very hazardous. The 
trees are thickening, and the barbarians 
have set several traps in order to delay or 
slay the characters before they can enter. 
Their belief that the PCs follow the Evil 
God makes them also believe that the 
characters have unholy powers given by 
this god. 

The following passages explain what 
traps have been set. how they engage, and 
what the surrounding terrain is like. The 
Dungeon Master should maintain random 
encounter checks while the characters 
confront the traps. 

T*ap#l : This trap is located where the 
trees are unusually thick. Held against a 
tree just to the right of their current path, 
several tree trunks are set with spikes. 
Natural vegetation camouflages these le 
thal spikes. A ranger has a 2% chance per 


18 




point of Wisdom to notice the trap and its 
trigger. 



The trigger is a simple length of twine 
spread across the path. Natural vegeta 
tion. fallen leaves, and snow hide the 
twine from sight. If a character trips or 
steps upon this twine, it snaps. This re 
leases the logs, sending them whipping 
across the path at the location of the 
snapped twine. These logs are parallel to 
the ground, separated by two feet. This 
means that the tripping characters-and 
all within three feet of them-receive 2d6 
points of damage for every two feet of 
their height [round fractions down). See 
the illustration showing the traps mecha 
nisms. 

Trap If 2: This trap is located in a small 
clearing. The smaller the clearing, the bet 
ter. This is a simple, break-away floor 
trap. It is triggered when more than 150 
pounds of pressure is applied to its sur 
face. At the bottom of this trap, wooden 
spikes protrude from the floor to impale 
all who fall in. Leaves, sod. and snow cov 
er the trap. This makes it somewhat diffi 
cult for a ranger character to locate. A 
successful Wisdom Check with a -5 pen 


alty is required to see the trap before it is 
too late. 

The trap Is square, about 15 feet on a 
side. Those closest to the side can roll a 
Dexterity Check with a -4 penalty to try 
to catch the side of the pit before they fall 
in. 

Characters hitting the bottom of the 
trap receive ld6 points of damage per 20 
pounds of weight (add each character's 
weight to that of all his possessions to 
come up with his weight for the purpose 
of this trap). Should the Dungeon Master 
decide that one character falls upon an 
other, the one on the bottom receives an 
additional ld3 points of damage per 20 
pounds of the upper character's weight; 
the upper character receives only ld2 
points of damage per 20 pounds of his 
weight. 



It is easy to escape this trap once the 
characters pry themselves off the spikes. 
(Please note that the damage stated in the 
previous paragraph includes damage tak 
en when the spikes are removed.) The bar 
barians who created this trap made 
earthen stairs along one side. These stairs 
can be used to climb out. 





the character's movement penalties are 
removed, and the character can walk and 
perform actions normally. 

For each trap spotted and avoided, the 
character who locates it should be award 
ed extra experience points for his skill. 

Once the characters have either subject 
ed themselves to the above traps, or have 
bypassed them, they see a large clearing 
ahead. This clearing has a number of 
small tents and hurriedly constructed log 
houses, as well as one very large tent. 
Around the encampment is a short fence 
made from cut logs, just high enough so 
the camp can't be overrun by mounted 
attackers. The Dungeon Master should 
read the following passage to the charac 
ters. showing them the illustration on this 
page. 


Trap #3: This trap is also located in a 
small clearing. Here, two loops of twine 
have been set one step's distance apart. 
The twine attaches to bent saplings, and 
is covered with dirt, snow, and fallen 
leaves. A ranger can roll a Wisdom Check 
with a -4 penalty to discover the trap be 
fore it is triggered. 

The trap is designed to capture the feet 
of a character-or two legs of a mount-in 
the loops. As the character's feet pull on 
the loops, the saplings whip to their stand 
ing positions, forcing the character's legs 
in opposite directions. The character re 
ceives 2d8 points of damage. No saving 
throw is allowed. 

The character also must roll a Constitu 
tion Check against half of his Constitu 
tion. If the check fails, the character's hip 
breaks. If a 20 results-a critical miss- 
both hips break. Breaking one hip reduces 
the character's movement to 3. If both 
hips break, the character can no longer 
move on his own. He must be carried until 
the wounds mend or until healed by a 
priest. These breaks mend naturally in a 
number of weeks equal to 30 minus the 
character's Constitution. If spells are used 
to heal all damage incurred by the trap. 


Ahead of you, Kabloona's encamp 
ment reveals itself. A number of tents 
and crudely made log buildings crowd 
inside a log fence. Human movement 
can be seen inside the camp, but sight 
is very limited. Grey smoke belches 
from the peaks of the tents and from 
make-shift chimneys on the log houses. 

Dark, four-legged shapes can be seen 
padding about as well, their noses to the 
ground or to the air. The wind blows at 
your back, sending a chill through your 
bodies. 


The characters may not realize this, but 
the wind is blowing their scent right into 
the encampment, where the wolf hybrids 
inside can smell and detect them should 
they get too close. Their current vantage 
point is far enough away for wind eddies 
and currents to sufficiently dilute their 
scent. If they circle about and approach 
from the north side of the camp, they can 
get very close without detection, unless 
they make a great deal of noise. Merely 
saying they are trying to be quiet is 


20 







enough to assure they are. If the charac 
ters do not specify this, a roll of 1 or 2 on 
Id6 indicates they were not silent enough 
and were detected by the hybrid wolf 
guard dogs inside the camp. 


Wolf Hybrids (16): Int Low (5-7): AL N; 
AC 7; MV 18: HD 3; hp 20: THACO 17; 
#AT 1: Dmg ld4+ 1: SA Nil: SD Nil; MR 
Nil: SZ S (2'-4' long): ML Average (10); XP 
120 each 


If the characters do not hide themselves 
when the alerted barbarians approach the 
fence, the barbarians act as though they 
see nothing. They reprimand the animals 
slightly-a ploy to give the intruders a 
false sense of security. These barbarians 
then hide in the southern section of the 
camp. There they wait for the characters 
to enter the camp. 

When the characters enter the camp, 
the hybrids stay at least 20 feet from them 
and watch them intently When the char 
acters pass the first tents, they are at 
tacked by ld6 barbarians. If the 
characters carefully look around the tents 
before passing them, the warriors do not 
surprise them. If they do not look about as 
they walk, they are surprised. The barbar- 


Entering Kabloona's Camp 

Entering From the South: 

If the characters approach the camp 
from the south-their original vantage 
point-the wolf hybrids catch their scent 
as soon as they are within 100 yards of 
the fence. Once one or these elegant ani 
mals detects the characters' scent, it 
barks, ending the report with a long, 
drawn-out howl. This brings the other 15 
hybrids to the area, and they begin bark 
ing and howling as well. This of course 
alerts the barbarians inside to the charac 
ters' presence. As the camp stirs, the hy 
brids howl and bark even more. 









ians get a free attack, with standard initia 
tive rolls after the first round. 

Barbarians (ld6): Int Very to Highly (11- 
14); AL CN, LN; AC 1: MV 12; HD F7; 
THACO 14; hp 52; #AT 3/2; Dmg ld8; SZ 
M (6' tall); ML Champion (15-16): XP 650 
each 

These barbarians fight until either they 
fail a Morale Check or they are killed. If 
they lose morale, they run from the en 
campment never to be seen again. There 
is a 25% chance per round of battle that 
1 d6 more barbarians hear the noise and 
assume there is trouble. If the die roll fails, 
the other barbarians believe the battle 
cries to be a minor skirmish within the 
ranks. 

Proceed to the section of this chapter 
titled ''Hunt for The Edge!' 


If the characters do not approach the 
camp from the south, this section of text 
applies. If the characters mention that 
they are sneaking up as quietly as possi 
ble. the Dungeon Master should roll ld20 
for each character present. If the die roll 
results in a 19 or 20. the wolf hybrids in 
the encampment hear them coming be 
fore the characters enter the camp. Their 
barking alerts the barbarians inside as in 
the previous section. 

If the PCs are quiet, the hybrids do not 
notice them until they are within the 
fence. At this point, the hybrids do not 
bark or howl, but they stay 20 feet away 
from the characters at all times. 

Wolf Hybrids (16): Int Low (5-7); AL N: 
AC 7; MV 18: HD 3: hp 20; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld4+ 1; SA Nil; SD Nil: MR 
Nil: SZ S (2'-4 r long): ML Average (10); XP 
120 each 


There is a 10% chance that ld6 barbari 
ans notice the strange behavior exhibited 
by the animals and approach to investi 
gate. 

Should any barbarians spot the charac 
ters, a battle cry sounds and a large group 
of barbarians approaches to give battle. 

Barbarians (18): Int Very to Highly (11- 
14); AL CN. LN: AC 1: MV 12; HD F7; 
THACO 14; hp 52: g AT 3/2; Dmg ld8; SZ 
M (6' tall); ML Champion (15-16); XP 650 
each 

There is a 25% chance per round of bat 
tle that ld6 more barbarians hear the 
noise and assume that there is trouble. If 
the die roll fails, the other barbarians be 
lieve the battle cries to be a minor skir 
mish within the ranks. 

Hunt for The Edge 

On the next page, a map of the camp is 
given for the Dungeon Master's use. It 
shows the location of every tent, the fence, 
and the log buildings. The individual 
structures are detailed below. 

Location 1: This is the perimeter fence. 
It is made from cut green trees. The posts 
consist of two live-foot-long logs, crossed 
in the middle and roped together Between 
these posts are longer logs, some more 
than 20 feet in length, stretched horizon 
tally about three feet from the ground. 

Location 2: This is the largest tent in 
the encampment. It is the personal quar 
ters of Kabloona Starskull. Hanging from 
the middle of the tent's ceiling is The 
Edge, the fourth Blade of Corusk. 

Kabloona, seven barbarian women with 
above-average Charisma, and three elite 
barbarian fighters live here. The Dungeon 
Master should not allow the PCs to take 
the blade without a fight. 

Location 3: This is the camp's corral. 

At present, it holds 30 mares and 16 stal 
lions. There are watering, feeding, and 


Entering From Any Other 
Direction: 





lodging facilities along the fence bordering 
the rest of the camp. 

Location 4: This is the main meeting 
hall for the barbarians. Here they receive 
orders from Kabloona, talk of possible 
raids, and discuss matters of importance, 
such as the characters and their quest for 
the sword. There are seven barbarians 
here at all times. 

Location 5: These very small tents are 
used as miniature prisons. Captured pris 
oners are placed here under strict guard 
until their fate is decided by the leader 
and a council of elders in Location 4. 

Location 6: These are the tents of the 
subchieftain. His family lives in the larger 
tent, and his servant lives in the smaller. 
The subchieftain is an elite fighter. 

The larger tent is occupied by one wom 
an. seven children, and the subchieftain. 
The smaller tent has a 3rd-level male 
fighter and a O-level woman. Should the 
characters invade this tent, the woman 
and the man fight with the ferocity of cor 


nered animals. 

Location 7: This empty tent originally 
stored the horses* grain. Since the barbari 
ans built the building at Location 9. this 
tent has been empty. 

Location 8: This large log building 
houses the sick and injured. Priests and 
healers work on the unfortunate until 
these folk are well enough to continue 
their duties. Those they cannot help are 
cast out of the tribe. Currently seven in 
jured barbarians, one pregnant woman, 
three healers, and two priests are in this 
building. The priests and the healers do 
not fight, even if threatened or attacked. 
They heal injured characters if asked. 

Location 9: This log building is the 
storage facility for the horses' grain and 
alfalfa. All material here is very dry. even 
in this climate. Anyone seen carrying a 
flame or torch into the building is severely 
punished. 

Location 10: These 12 tents are the 
sleeping quarters of the unmarried bar- 


23 






barian men. They sleep two to a tent. 
Often a great deal of fighting and bicker- 
ing goes on here, because the tents are 
too small for two men and their belong 
ings. 

There is a 60% chance a tent is occu 
pied by at least one man. Both men are in 
a tent only 10% of the time. 

Allow at least one of the men in this ar 
ea to surrender if attacked. This way the 
characters can get some information they 
need. The first barbarian the PCs let live 
can give them the following information. 

The man the characters question asks 
them if they are looking for the Blade of 
Corusk. If the characters reply in the af 
firmative or ask why he wants to know, 
the man says, "If you take this sword, 
know that the Hold of Stonefist shall hunt 
you to the ends of the world. They do not 
wish to see all five swords come into the 
hands of one group. Thking the sword en 
sures your deaths." 

Location 11: These live tents house the 
healers and the priests who work in Loca 
tion 8. There is a 45% chance a tent has 
an occupant (two if the dlOO roll is under 
20). These men and women do not fight 
under any circumstance. They wish to 
heal, not kill. If any character is injured, 
they suggest the character go to Location 
8 for healing. 

Location 12: These 12 tents are the 
sleeping quarters for the single female 
barbarians. Each tent is occupied by two 
women. Like the single males' tents, 
squabbling is very common, but the wom 
en fight over potential mates and who 
owns which side of the tent. 

Location 13: These sections of the 
fence can be easily slipped aside to allow 
men and beasts to storm from the camp. 

Location 14: These sections of the 
fence enable easy access to the stables. 

Location 15: This section of the fence 
enables access from the stables to the out 
side. It is usually roped firmly in place, 
and intruders cannot open it with ease to 


steal or scare the barbarians' mounts 
away. 

Location 16: These are smoking 
houses. Killed, skinned, and gutted game 
is placed in this building to purify and to 
store. There is never less than 1,000 
pounds of jerked deer or caribou in each 
house. Hickory smoke fills the houses 
95% of the time. 

Location 17: This is the mess chefs 
residence. It also is where he does his 
cooking. The chef (a 3rd-level ranger), his 
wife, baby daughter, and his two 0-level 
servants live in this house. 

Location 18: Food is laid out here twice 
daily for communal consumption. Every 
one gets a fair share of food, but there is a 
distinct pecking order. Those of highest 
rank receive their food first, while those of 
least importance eat last. Occasionally, the 
least important go hungry. The chef does 
his best to ensure that everyone has some 
thing to eat. 

Location 19: These tents belong to the 
married members of the tribe. Each family 
lives in a separate tent. They are isolated 
from the others areas of the camp so no 
one need listen to their incessant fighting. 
Married men and women of this tribe are 
very jealous of their spouses, and they 
want to make sure they are far from the 
single members of the community. 

Each tent has an equal chance of being 
occupied. Roll Id 100 for each tent against 
the following chart to determine its occu 
pancy. 

If there is a single occupant, a 15% 
chance exists for that person to be attract 
ed to a member of the party. The Dungeon 
Master can have the absent spouse soon 
enter the tent, notice this attraction, and 
immediately attack the offending 
character. 


24 







D100 

Roll Occupancy 

01-10 Empty 
11-45 One Woman 
46-50 Couple 
51-60 Couple + one child 
61-70 Couple + two children 
71-75 Couple + three children 
76-80 Couple + four children 
81-85 Couple + five children 
86-00 One Man 


he grabs The Edge to attack the charac 
ters. Starting ld4 rounds later, ld6 bar 
barian fighters enter the tent every 1 d4 
rounds, to help combat the characters. 
There are a total of 50 barbarian lighters 
in the camp. Forty of these are standard 
barbarians, while 10 are elite fighters. 
Whenever barbarians are encountered. 
20% of these are elite fighters (round frac 
tions down). If Kabloona fails a Morale 
Check, he throws the blade to the side and 
falls to the ground, sobbing and cackling 
maniacally. 

If the characters successfully capture 
the sword. Id6 of the remaining barbari 
ans, male and female, run to the corral, 
grab horses, and ride northwest. (These 
barbarians are attempting to notify the 
Hold of Stonefist that the characters have 
captured the blade. In response, the Hold 
sends an army to defeat the characters. 
This occurs at the end of the module.) 

Even when the characters get the 
sword, the barbarians still pour into the 
chieftain's tent. However, whenever a bar 
barian is killed by a character wielding 
The Edge, there is a 95% chance they all 
stop advancing. 

''You must have been blessed by He- 
Who-Slices-Through-Glacier-And-Frozen- 
Caribou-Like-Warm-Blubber. He allows 
you to touch and wield him." 

At this point, the barbarians look to 
ward Kabloona Starskull. "You told us on 
ly the High Chieftain of the barbarian 
people could wield the sword, and that 
you were the only true High Chieftain. You 
lied to us, and you must pay for your 
crime." 

The barbarians, with screams of anger, 
grab the flailing chieftain and take him 
outside the tent: he is never seen again by 
the PCs. If the character who holds The 
Edge tries to stop the barbarian horde, 
they pause. If this character insists that 
Kabloona should not be killed, they say, 
"As you wish. High Chieftain. What would 
you have us do with him?" 


Following are the statistics for the bar 
barians who might be encountered in this 
camp, 


Barbarian Fighter: Int Very to Highly 
(11-14): AL CN. LN: AC 1;MV 12; HD F7; 
THACO 14; hp 52; #AT 3/2; Dmg ld8; SZ 
M (6' tall): ML Champion (15-16); XP 650 
each 


Barbarian Female: Int Very to Highly 
(11-14): ALCN. LN: AC 9: MV 12; HD >0; 
THACO 20; hp 7: #AT 1; Dmg ld4; SZ M 
(5'6" tall): ML Average (8-10); XP 15 each 

Barbarian Elite Fighter: Int Very to 
Highly (11-14); AL CN, LN: AC - 1; MV 12 
HD F12; THACO 9: hp 82; #AT 3/2; Dmg 
ld8: SZ M (6' tall): ML Champion (15-16); 
XP 3.000 each 


Barbarian Priest: Int Exceptionally (15 
16); AL CN, LN: AC 4: MV 12: HD P8; 
THACO 16; hp 48: HAT 0: Dmg nil; SZ M 
(6' tall): ML Fanatic (17-18); XP 1,400 
each 


Kabloona, Barbarian Leader: Int Highly 
(14): AL CN; AC -2; MV 12; HD F14; 
THACO 7: hp 105; MT 2; Dmg ld8 + 3/ 
ld8 + 3; SZ M (6' tall); ML Steady (12): XP 
5.000 


If the characters enter the main tent, 
Location 2. Kabloona screams a warning 
in Cold Tongue to his followers, and then 


25 



Whatever the character dictates, the 
barbarian people do. Once the decision to 
save Kabloona's life is made, the people 
murmur among themselves that the char 
acter is a just and benign leader. They ask 
the character what he expects from them. 
They are willing to bend over backward 
for the character-if he saved Kabloona's 
life. If the character did not save Kab- 
loona's life, they complain if the character 
asks something from them that the 
Dungeon Master feels is injurious or time 
consuming in the slightest. 


him locate clues to the whereabouts of the 
fifth Blade of Corusk. The characters must 
cast a read magic spell upon the cryptic 
runes on The Edge to find the above infor 
mation. This is how the runes read: 


"After the fall of the Great God's em 
pire. the swords vanished from their 
masters' hands. Four Blades of Corusk 
fell to the ends of the world where they 
shall be found and slowly brought forth 
to the next meeting. The fifth, and most 
wary, descended upon the lands where 
no man lived. Driving itself into legend 
and myth. Harmony now hides where 
the River of Frozen Water flows north. 
Waiting for her rescuer, only I can lead 
this man to her. Only I can tell her from 
the stones lying in the ice. 


The Safety of Kabloona and 
Additional Information 

If the character with The Edge saved 
Kabloona's life, and he asks the tribespeo- 
ple for information regarding the other 
Blade of Corusk, they help out as much as 
possible. 

"Legends tell that after the fall of the 
barbarian empire millennia ago, the 
swords cast themselves to the distant 
ends of the world. Four were sent to the 
far corners of Oerth, while the fifth-the 
bringer of equality-went where no man 
lived for hundreds of miles. Our sages be 
lieve this is in the western lands of the 
Hold of Stonefist. Its exact location re 
mains unknown, except for this brief pas 
sage from an old scroll: 

"... Harmony drove itself in to hiding at 
the northernmost point of the River of Fro 
zen Water. It now waits for its diviner to 
rescue it from eternal transformation. On 
ly He Who Cuts Without Effort can see 
through Harmony's metamorphosis ." 

(The Dungeon Master can locate this 
area quickly by looking at the poster map, 
finding the Hold of Stonefist and the Fro 
zen River. The river loops in hex column 
Z2. North of this is the hiding place of Har- 
monizer. 

On the other hand, if the character lets 
the people kill Kabloona. they do not help 


No barbarians go with the characters if 
they ask. They say that the people of the 
Hold of Stonefist will be coming to wreak 
havoc on the area, since the sword is no 
longer in the hands of the tribe. They 
must stay behind to protect their lands. 


26 





After discovering The Edge on the fro 
zen body of a dead barbarian, Kabloona 
took it. proclaiming himself the only true 
High Chieftain. His people followed him. 
First they followed out of fear because of 
his "touched" condition, but soon they 
followed out of respect for what they saw 
Kabloona and his lethal blade do to their 
enemies. Never before has a weapon killed 
so many so quickly. 


NPC Roster for Chapter 2 

Kabloona Starskull 

14th-Level Barbarian Male Fighter 


Str: 18/00 Dex: 15 Con; 17 

Int: 14 Wis: 11 Cha: 15 

AL: CN hp: 105 

THACO: 7 AC: -2 

Weapon Proficiencies: sword (x3). dag 
ger, broad sword (x3), bow 
Nonweapon Proficiencies: Animal lore 
(14), blind-fighting (NA), direction sense 
(12), endurance (17), set snares (13). sur 
vival (14), tracking (11} 

Languages: Common, Cold Tongue. 
Nyrondese 

Special Abilities: Completely resistant 
to sleep and charm because of his insanity 
Special Possessions: Dagger +2. ring of 
protection +1. plate mail +3, broad sword 
+1. long sword +3 

Kabloona Starskull is the chieftain of a 
new barbarian tribe. He calls this new 
tribe simply "Kabloona." At present, his 
encampment is about 20 miles north of 
Kelten, south and east of the Hold of 
Stonefist, 

Kabloona received his first name be 
cause his skin and the whites of his eyes 
are un usually white-a slight case of albi 
nism inherited from his father. He ob 
tained his last name soon after he was 
tossed out of his former tribe. This separa 
tion from his family, friends, and wife soon 
drove him insane. His followers believe 
spirits of some divine being touched him. 
a most honorable occurrence. They be 
lieve that his mind lives with the stars of 
the Swan, a constellation in the northern 
winter skies, 

Kabloona created his own tribe, which 
worships He-who-Slices-Through-Glacier- 
And-Frozen-Caribou-Like-Warm-Blubber. 
This is the name Kabloona gave to The 
Edge, the fourth Blade of Corusk. 


27 













































Chapter 3. 

Across the Frozen 
River 


"If your barbarian friends are correct, 
we had better start moving now." Mallon 
looks about nervously once the Kabloona 
barbarians mention an imminent attack 
from the Hold of Stonefist. "I hear that 
Stonefist has some of the toughest and 
meanest warriors on the face of the 
planet" 

If the characters wish to continue the 
adventure, they must figure out where 
they are going; the Dungeon Master can 
give them a crude map of the region be 
tween the Hraak Forest and White Fanged 
Bay (the tribesmen drew it for the PCs). If 
the players have no clue as to where they 
should go, Mallon and Karas ten help 
them. The northernmost part of the Fro 
zen River is their next destination. 

On the way there, the Dungeon Master 
should roll for random encounters as usu 
al. The appropriate charts are located on 
page 8 and 9. The monster statistics are 
located on page 48. Allow the characters 
to make their own path. By going around 
the Hraak Forest, they will avoid all forest 
encounters. However, if they wish to 
shave as much time off their travels as 
possible, they will have to travel through 
the forest for a few days at least. 


During the journey to the Frozen River, 
the characters run into a few planned en 
counters. One of these encounters is 
tougher than the random encounters and 
requires additional information for the 
Dungeon Master to run smoothly. If the 
characters are in a weakened state, the 
DM should wait for a more opportune time 
to introduce the Stonefist forward scouts 
of Encounter 1. 


Encounter 1: The Stonefist Scouts 

This encounter occurs if the characters 
decide to go through the Hraak Forest. As 
they approach the outer edge, they en 
counter several scouts of the Stonefist 
armies. The Dungeon Master should read 
the following boxed text. 


The sun is high in the sky, but its 
light is largely diffused by the thick co 
niferous forest. As you walk across sev 
eral decaying logs, you hear the 
clanking of plate armor and the swish 
ing sound of chain mail approach from 
the west. Within a few rounds, distant 
voices also can be heard. 


If the characters hide themselves in the 
thick vegetation, read the following. 


As the voices slowly approach, you 
hear men speaking in the common 
tongue, 

.. They should be around here 
somewhere. The King's spies said 
they'd be coming through here, but I 
don't see any tracks." 

"Keep looking, I'm sure we'll find 
their trail soon. You're supposed to be a 
great tracker; prove it, ranger." This 
voice is more gruff than the first. The 
men pass within 50 feet of you, heading 
in the direction you came from. 

Within a few rounds, the ranger again 
speaks up. "Here, I see their trail now. It 
leads this way. Come!" The seven men 
head directly for your hiding place. 


Within ld4 rounds, the trackers find the 
characters. The characters can surprise 
them if they jump out at the trackers at 
the last moment. The characters get one 
free round of attacks because of surprise. 
Thereafter, normal initiative rolls should 
be made. 


Planned Encounters 






Ranger: Int Highly (14): AL NG: AC 3: MV 
12: HD F8: THACO 13: hp 58: ft AT 3 h\ 

Dmg ld8: SA long sword +2; SZ M (6' 
tall): ML Elite (14): XP 975 

Warriors (5): Int Average (8-10): AL CN, 

N: AC 5: MV 12; HD F5; THACO 16: hp 32: 
#AT 1; Dmg ld8; SA two have long swords 
+1; SZ M (6' tall): ML Steady (11-12): XP 
270 each 

Warrior Leader: Int Highly (13): AL LE: 
AC -2: MV 12: HD F12; THACO 9: hp 82: 
#AT 2: Dmg Id8/ld8; SZ M (6' tall): ML 
Fanatic (18): XP 3.000 

If the PCs rush the trackers before the 
trail is found-or if the PCs wait for them 
to approach instead of hiding-they do not 
surprise the trackers. When these men 
from Stonefist see the characters, they 
proclaim, "There they are! Forward!" 

The warrior leader allows the five war 
riors to charge in front of him. and he fol 
lows close behind. If one of the warriors 
fails a Morale Check, the warrior leader 
forces him back into the battle. The other 
warriors see this and their morale raises to 
elite (13) status for the remainder of the 
battle. However, if the characters manage 
to kill off the leader, the rest of the war 
riors' morale is reduced to unsteady (6) 
status. 

When half his men have been killed, the 
leader enters the fray. The ranger merely 
looks on. refusing to fight unless the PCs 
attack him. 

If the warriors fail Morale Checks after 
the leader enters the battle, they simply 
run away. If the leader fails a Morale 
Check, he also runs away. 

The ranger does not fight, he does not 
even reach for his weapon. He hopes this 
show of neutrality is enough for the char 
acters not to attack him. If he is not 
harmed, he has information for the char 
acters: 


• The men who attacked the PCs are from 
the Hold of Stonefist. They were to scout 
out the area to detect the movements of 
any barbarian forces. Fear of the Blades 
of Corusk has grown tremendously. In 
response to this fear, the Hold has sent 
an army to attack the characters and 
take the swords, so as to stop this bar 
barian threat to their land. 

• Rumors say the Great Kingdom plans to 
re-annex the lands of the Bone March 
and the North Province. From there, 
they will have easy access to the barbar 
ian lands and the Hold of Stonefist. 
Stonefist. however, wishes to maintain 
the uneasy alliance it has with the bar 
barians so that the two groups can com 
bat the menacing Great Kingdom 
together. 

This alliance will fall apart if the Blades 
of Corusk are found and brought together. 
Thus the PCs must be stopped at all costs, 
reason the people of the Hold. 

• The Rovers of the Barrens have sent as 
sassins to kill the Stonefist leaders. Cap 
tured assailants claimed they were hired 
by the Duchy of Tenh to perform this 
task. This suggests a possible alliance 
between the Barrens and the Great 
Kingdom. This is another reason that 
the characters should not continue their 
mission. 

• The ranger's name is Thesaur the Trail 
er. He is well known in the lands sur 
rounding Vlekstaad for being able to 
follow a year-old trail. Thesaur admits 
the legend exaggerates the truth, but he 
does nothing to discourage this. 

After talking with the PCs-assuming 
he survived long enough to speak his 
mind-the ranger travels with them until 
the Hraak Forest is behind them. At this 
point, he travels alone and to the south, 
and the characters never again encounter 
him. 


30 







r m 

V /whitur,}; 


>•¦ s&r. 


Encounter 2: The Caravan 

When the characters are in the open 
fields of the Hold of Stonefist, they see a 
large caravan in smoking ruin. Read the 
following text to the players. 


Ahead in the distance, smoke rises, 
black and menacing. As you approach, 
you see the remains of a large caravan. 
Dead and mortally wounded people lit 
ter the snow. 

Feeble cries of help and moans of pain 
greet you as you come closer. When you 
pass a dying man. he reaches up and 
weakly grabs your clothing. He mum 
bles something that you can't quite 
hear. 


If the characters bend down to listen, 
they hear the following. The parts in pa 
rentheses are inaudible. If a character 
casts clairaudience, all can be heard. 


"We were bringing (weapons to the) 
Frost Barbarians (at Djekul) when we 
were attacked by the Theofcracy of the 
Pale). All of our people were (murdered 
and our cargo) taken." 

"They just let us die. They (did noth 
ing to help the] innocent that were with 
us. As their leader (passed me. he) 
spoke of a successful attack against 
(Djekul. He said that) the battle (left the 
city) in complete ruin." 


The man dies shortly after. If the char 
acters cast a speak with dead spell, the 
above information is learned, as well as 
the following: 


"We had well over 30,000 gp worth of 
weapons and armor for the Frost and 
Snow Barbarians, They are amassing 
weapons from the Bandit Kingdoms be- 


31 

















If the characters stop to heal some of 
these barbarian people, the Dungeon Mas 
ter should award them experience points 
for their kindness. 

Encounter 3: Messenger of Tidings 

As the characters near their destination, 
they see a lone figure, riding like the wind 
from behind them. The person is trying to 
catch up with them. If the characters have 
mounts and make an attempt to bolt away 
from this individual, ignore the encounter. 
If they allow the horse to catch up with 
them, read the following to them: 


The woman listens to the news that the 
PCs give, writing it all down on scrolled 
paper with a quick hand. When the char 
acters finish, she leaps back into the sad 
dle and says, "I shall give this news to the 
Trinity. They will be pleased." She turns 
the horse around and kicks it into a run. 

If the characters ask what the Trinity is, 
she replies, "The Trinity is a new council 
that leads all three barbarian lands. The 
ruler of each land has a seat in the coun 
cil. Since we shall soon be fighting for our 
very existence, we must band together in 
order to save themselves. But the Trinity 
is doomed to failure unless the Great God 
can be brought forth to forge us together 
into one people." 

Encounter 4; The Ore Brigade 

As the characters near their destination, 
they come to an area covered with ice. 

The Dungeon Master should read the fol 
lowing passage to the players. (Refer to 
the map on page 33 for details.! 


DM's Notes: The three hills on the map 
show elevation lines, each line corres 
ponding to ten feet of height. There are 
three paths that go between these hills 
and lead to the patch. At present, the 
characters are approaching from the 


Riding as though a mad fury is only 
steps behind, the figure rapidly ap 
proaches you. Within a few minutes, the 
figure closes the gap and starts slowing 
the horse down. 

The horse is breathing hard. Its eyes 
turn into its skull, and the horse drops 
to its knees. The rider quickly dis 
mounts and casts a spell upon the 
beast. Almost instantly, the horse recov 
ers and returns to its feet. 

"1 am glad 1 caught you." The rider's 
j soft voice prepares you for the startling* 

I ly beautiful woman's face that appears 
1 when her helmet is removed. "I have 
l news of greatest importance. The city of 
Djekul has been invaded by forces from 
the south. It is presumed these forces 
hail from the Bone March, because of 
the insignia on their armor. However, 
since the Great Kingdom sometimes 
disguises its warriors with the devices of 


cause of rumors about the movements 
of armies from the south. 

"The threat of the Great Kingdom and 
the Hold of Stonefist is very real. That is 
why we need the Great God so desper 
ately. Do not fail us! We need heroes 
now. and we need our sleeping god." 


other nations, we are not positive of our 
enemy. 

"I have been sent to ask you to make 
haste in recovering the Blades of Corusk 
before it is too late. Have you had anv 
luck?" 


As you close in on your destination, 
you come to a large field of ice. Its 
smooth surface reflects the sky above it 
and the landscape around it. Three hills 
surround this ice patch. 







/ 'CHE OQRE 
MAQE ICE PACCH 


view the fight.) 

While the characters are on the ice, 
their movement rates are cut by 25% (a 
movement rate of 12 is reduced to 9). un 
less they own items {magical or non- 
magical) that grant surefootedness on ice. 
The ores wear spiked boots that efficiently 
dig into the ice, so they retain their stand 
ard movement rate on the ice. 

The ores from Hill 1 attempt to flank the 
characters from their left, the ores from 
Hill 2 come from the rear and the right, 
and the ores from Hill 3 come from the 
front and the right. They are trying to sur 
round the characters to heighten their 
battle effectiveness. The ogre magi sit and 
watch the battle's progress with glee. 


southeast, heading toward the northwest. 

The "X"s on the map each designate a 
single ore. The "*"s each show the posi 
tion of an ogre mage. This ice patch, cre 
ated by an ogre mage, is designed to stall 
the characters long enough for the ores to 
attack. The monsters seek to steal the 
Blades of Corusk from the PCs. 

If the characters walk across the ice 
patch toward the northwest, ihe ores' plan 
works as they planned. After waiting for 
the characters to reach the center of the 
ice patch, the ores behind Hill 1 sound a 
battle horn and charge down the hill to 
ward the characters, screaming at the top 
of their lungs. The ogre mage stands on 
the top of the hill to watch the battle. 

With the sounding of the horn, the ores 
behind the other two hills charge down 
their hills toward the characters as well, 
but they are one round behind the leading 
ores from Hill 1, (The ogre magi from the 
other two hills also stand where they can 


Ores (23): Int Average (8-9): AL LE; AC 6: 
MV 9: HD 1: THACO 19: hp 7: if AT 1; Dmg 
ld8; SA nil: SD nil; SZ M (6' tall); ML 
Steady {11-12): XP 15 each 


33 



eSp 

\ tr/ HLx 


mm 









Ogre Magi [3): Ini Exceptional (15): AL 
LE: AC 4: MV 9, FL 15; HD 5 + 2; THACO 
15: hp 40; #AT 1: Dmg ldl2; SA Spells: 

SD Nil; SZ L (IOV 2 ' tall): ML Elite (13-14); 
XF 650 each 

The ogre magi do not attack unless they 
are attacked first. They were hired to cre 
ate the ice patch in order to slow the char 
acters down. This is not their battle, and 
they want no part in it. They hale the ores 
almost as much as they hate humans and 
demihumans. They would like nothing 
better than to see these two groups de 
stroy each other so they can take the pos 
sessions from the dead bodies. 

If the characters decide to go around or 
over the hills, the ores closest to the char 
acters sound a horn and swarm the char 
acters. The other ores rush toward the 
fight, but they arrive there considerably 
later than if the PCs had traveled across 
the ice. Using the ores' movement rate 
and the distances they need to run to join 
the fray, the Dungeon Master can deter 
mine exactly when the ores arrive. 

Again, the ogre magi do not enter the 
battle. They simply stand in a position 
where they can watch. If attacked, they 
strike back, but they do not initiate com 
bat. 

If the ores are successful in defeating 
the characters, they Lake as many of the 
Blades of Corusk as they can find, return 
ing to the holy ore city of Garel Enkdal. 
(This city is mapped and detailed in the 
Five Shall Be One module. It is not de 
tailed here because it is not a focus in this 
adventure.) 

Encounter 5: Dreamsinger Fugue 

The characters may have some trouble 
determining how The Edge can detect the 
fifth blade. This encounter gives the char 
acters several hints for locating Harmoniz- 
er. During the night, Dreamsinger gives its 
owner these clues in a dream. The 
Dungeon Master should read the following 


passage to the character. 


During the night, your sleep is rest 
less. Suddenly, your mind clears, and 
you see yourself walking across a long 
expanse of white water. Your arms are 
outstretched in front of you as if you are 
sleepwalking. 

Suddenly you stop. The sensation of 
falling overtakes you. and the fear of 
death fills your mind. Your fall stops 
just above a single, nondescript rock 
that sits upon the frozen tundra. The 
sound of horses, b idles, and steel 
makes you look up. Far in the distance, 
a large army rides toward you, making 
clouds of powdered snow behind them. 

When you look back down to the rock, 
you see a beautiful sword wedged into 
it. The hilt is against the stone, while 
the blade protrudes from the other side. 
Blue sparks arc across the sword's sur 
face as a feeling of peace and content 
ment flows over you. 


When the characters are within five 
miles of their destination, the character 
who carries The Edge starts feeling a 
slight tingling in his sword arm. Looking 
down, he notices his hand on the hilt. If 
the character removes his hand from the 
hilt, the tingling sensation stops. 

If the character explains his sensation to 
the rest of the party. Karasten speaks up. 
"The Edge has the ability to detect the 
magical vibrations from the fifth sword. 
This is good. Where does the sword point 
to?" 

Karasten does not know how The Edge 
locates Harmonizer. the fifth sword, 
should the characters ask. However, if the 
character holds the sword in both hands, 
with the two large blade-stops in each 
hand like a divining rod. the sword lifts 
up, directing the character ahead. 

DM's Note: The Dungeon Master may 
wish to role-play this part out. This also 





with a -2 penalty-he does not fall. In 
stead, he swings around the location 
where The Edge stopped. K still points 
straight down, motionless, levitating a few 
inches above the ground. The object of its 
interest is a normal-looking, moss-covered 
rock. (If the character lets go of the blade, 
it falls to the ground and sparks streak 
across its surface for a brief moment.) 


gives him a chance to help the players 
determine how the sword locates Harmo 
nizes If the sword is grasped, it moves 
about on its own power, as though it were 
trying to spring out of the character's 
hand. If the character grasps one of the 
blade-stops, it feebly tries to right itself 
into a horizontal position. If he grabs both 
blade-stops, the sword immediately lifts 
its blade, pointing to the northwest. 

As the PCs move closer to their objec 
tive, The Edge starts to increase its pull on 
the character. Eventually, the character 
can barely hold onto The Edge, as the 
sword pulls him along. After several turns 
of this, the Dungeon Master should read 
the following passage. 


The Edge points directly at a large 
rock, refusing to move. This stone, cov 
ered in frozen, green-and-red moss, is 
half buried in the hardened tundra. A 
dozen feet to the south, the Frozen Riv 
er starts weaving to the east. A frigid 
breeze flows from the south over the 
river, chilling you to the bone. Off in the 
distance to the north, over sloping hills, 
you hear the howls of strange, sad ani 
mals. From the direction you came, an 
other force rides toward you. 


You faintly hear the blare of battle 
horns from the southwest. Miles away, a 
large black mass moves over a distant 
hill, heading in your direction. You can 
barely make out the objects as they ap 
proach. but they are much larger than 
human. 


DM's Note: The howls the PCs heard 
are the horns and pipes of a large army 
from the Hold of Stonefist. They are head 
ing south to intercept the characters be 
fore they can retrieve the fifth Blade of 
Corusk. The horns from the southwest 
mentioned earlier herald the approach of 
an army from the Rovers of the Barrens, 
seeking the same end. 

The third force, coming from the south 
east, are the Kabloona barbarians the PCs 
left behind days ago. Hearing rumors of 
Stonefist massing an army to crush the 
characters, they assembled themselves 
and rode out to the PCs' defense. 

The three forces closing in on the char 
acters do not arrive at the same time. The 
following table tells when each of these 
groups arrives at the character's location. 


Occasionally, the Dungeon Master 
should roll a Strength Check for the char 
acter holding The Edge, to determine if he 
can maintain his grip. If the Strength 
Check fails, the sword wrenches itself 
from his hands, dropping to the ground a 
dozen feet away. It lies motionless until 
the character picks it up. Then it starts 
pulling him again. 

When the characters are within 1.000 
feet of Harmonizes The Edge begins to 
vibrate, forcing the character into a wild, 
headlong run. Suddenly, it points straight 
down, abruptly stopping its forward mo 
tion to halt over a rock. Unfortunately, the 
momentum the character built up sends 
him flying forward. No damage is received 
from this fall. 

If the character maintained his grip- 
this requires a successful Strength Check 


36 






Barbarian Elite Fighter (10): lnt Very to 
Highly (11-14): AL CN, LN; AC -1; MV 12: 
HD F12; THACO 9: hp 82: #AT 3/2; Dmg 
Id8/ld8: SZ M (6' tall); ML Champion (IS 
IS); XP 3.000 each 


Force From Time before Arrival 

Barrens SW 4 TUms (40 Rounds) 

Kabloona SE 2 Turns (20 Rounds) 

Stoneflst N 5 Turns (50 Rounds) 


When the Kabloona TYibe Arrives 

The Kabloona tribesfolk arrive about 
two turns after the characters spot them. 
As they approach the characters, the 
tribesfolk yell out a friendly greeting. 
Stopping their horses within 20 feet of the 
characters, they dismount and grab their 
weapons, making sure their actions are 
not misconstrued as menacing. 


Barbarian Priest (12): lnt Exceptionally 
(15-16): AL CN. LN; AC 4; MV 12; HD P8: 
THACO 16; hp 48: #AT 0: Dmg nil: SZ M 
(6' tall): ML Fanatic (17-18): XP 1.400 
each 


When the Barrens Army Arrives 

The Rovers of the Barrens army arrives 
about four turns after the PCs spot it. 
Please note, this encounter does not occur 
if the characters called upon their Great 
God. (See the following sections for infor 
mation on this.) 

The map on page 38 shows the Barrens 
army's movements. They send dozens of 
troops to either flank, while the greatest 
number come up from the south. 


"We changed our minds. It is up to al! 
barbarians to assist you in recovering 
the Blades of Corusk. Without them and 
our great deity, we cannot survive the 
ensuing war. We are yours to com 
mand." 


If the characters are fighting their dupli 
cates when the Kabloonans arrive (see the 
"The Sword That is Stone" section), the 
barbarian tribe does not interfere. Having 
seen this phenomenon before, they be 
lieve it divine intervention to prove the 
characters' worthiness. 

If the characters called upon the Great 
God before or during the Kabloonans' ar 
rival, the Kabloonans immediately bow, 
their faces against the ground in rever 
ence to the god. 


The man leading the southern troops 
stops his horse and stands up in the 
stirrups. "A valiant attempt, but you 
have failed. TLirn the blades over to me 
and your lives shall be spared. If you 
deny me the blades, you will all die." 


The leader refuses to bargain with the 
PCs. If they stall, he warns them only 
once. If they continue delaying, he lifts his 
sabre to call for an attack, then he stops. 
Looking to the north, he sees the Stonefist 
army. He orders his men to position them 
selves in a semi-circle, south of the char 
acters. Please refer to the next section. 

If the PC who has The Edge commands 
Lhe Kabloona barbarians to fight the Ro 
vers, they do so. They are systematically 
slaughtered. The Rovers lose Id20 + 50 
men in the battle. 


Barbarian Fighter (40): lnt Very to 
Highly (11-14); AL CN, LN: AC 1: MV 12: 
HD F7; THACO 14; hp 52: *AT 3/2: Dmg 
ld8; SZ M (6 F tall); ML Champion (15-16} 
XP 650 each 


Barbarian Female (61): lnt Very to High 
ly (11-14); AL CN, LN: AC 9: MV 12: HD 
FO: THACO 20; hp 7; #AT 1: Dmg ld4: SZ 
M (6' tall); ML Average (8-10): XP 15 each 







Rovers' Warriors (250): lnt Very to 
Highly (11-14): AL CN. LN; AC if MV 12; 
HD F7; THACO 14; hp 52: #AT 3/2; Dmg 
ld8: SZ M (6' tall); ML Champion (15-16) 
XP 420 each 


blades. If they refuse, the armies attack. (If 
the characters relent after the armies be 
gin advancing, the advance stops.) Intent 
on capturing the Blades of Corusk, they 
do not plan to kill the characters. They 
wish to capture them as an example to 
other barbarians. 

If the attack succeeds, the two armies 
split the swords as agreed, and the Stone- 
fist army takes possession of any surviv 
ing PCs. The characters are taken to the 
Stonefist's leader, who tries to extract in 
formation regarding army movements, 
weaknesses, and such of the barbarian 
forces. Noncompliance results in death, 
unless the PCs escape. 


When the Stonefist Army Arrives 

The Stonefist army arrives in five turns. 
(This encounter does not occur if the char 
acters call upon the Great God.) 

As the Stonefist army arrives, they posi 
tion themselves to the north, according to 
the map on this page. They do not want to 
battle the Barrens army to the south of the 
characters. As they halt their advance, the 
two leaders yell greetings to each other 
over the PCs in the middle. After a brief 
consultation, they agree to split the blades 
evenly, with the larger force gaining the 
fifth blade, if the characters have convert 
ed it to a sword. 

The leader of the Barrens army again 
demands that the PCs turn over the 


Stonefist Warriors (300): lnt Very to 
Highly (11-14); AL CN, LN; AC 1: MV 12; 
HD F7: THACO 14: hp 52: #AT 3/2; Dmg 
ld8; SZ M (6' tall); ML Champion (15-16) 
XP 420 each 


Movcmcni of StONefist's Atiwy 


Fifth Blat* 
of Couusk 


MoveMGNt of StoNefist's Arm? 


38 





The Sword That is Stone 

If the characters try to pry the rock from 
the ground, they find it a strenuous chore. 
Frozen in near-solid ground, the rock 
doesn't want to come up. All characters 
can roll a bend bars check with a - 10% 
penalty to free the rock. If the characters 
use swords, staves, or rods to pry the rock 
out of the ground, they can roll bend bars 
checks with no penalty. 

While the PCs work at releasing the 
rock. Karasten encourages them to make 
haste. The oncoming forces from the 
south are worrying him. The Dungeon 
Master can give the players estimates on 
how long the PCs have to deed with the 
sword before the forces arrive. 

If the characters succeed, the stone is 
surprisingly heavy for its size. Weighing 
nearly 100 pounds, it is a burden for most 
characters to hold, let alone carry for any 
length of time. If the characters cast divi 
nation spells on the object, information 
can be learned, depending on the spell 
used. The following list tells the results of 
the most common spells. 

• Detect Evil: The item is not evil. 

• Detect Invisibility: None. 

• Detect Magic: This shows the presence 
of both strong and weak magic. There is 
a 10% chance per level of the caster to 
determine the magical schools the mag 
ic originates from. The weak magic is 
from the Alteration school. The stronger 
magic comes from the Abjuration. Alter 
ation, Divination, and Conjuration/ 
Summoning schools. 

The strong magic originates from the 
sword and its abilities. The weak magical 
aura emanates from a polymorph spell 
cast upon the sword and its case. 

• Detect Poison: None. 

• Divination: It is impossible to predict 
what the players ask when using this 
spell. The Dungeon Master is advised to 
shroud the answer in riddle, poetry, or 


parable. 

• Find Tfaps: Inconclusive. 

• Identify: It takes eight hours of prepara 
tion to use this spell. There is not 
enough time unless the characters tele 
port away. The Dungeon Master is en 
couraged to read the "New Magical 
Items" section and give the characters 
any information he feels they earn. The 
2nd edition Player's Handbook gives pa 
rameters on the spell. 

• Know Alignment: The stone's alignment 
is Neutral. 

• Locate Object: Inconclusive. 

• Read Magic: There are no magical writ 
ings on the stone. 

• Stone Tbll: This particular stone does 
not speak with the character. Other 
stones tell tales of a stone that is not a 
stone. (The sword is polymorphed to 
appear as a stone. Since it is not really a 
stone, it cannot speak when the spell is 
used.) 

• TYue Seeing: This spell shows the rock 
as a sword. 

• Vision: If successful, the character sees 
himself casting a spell over the rock, 
turning the stone back into a sword. The 
spell cast is unknown. 

When the characters transform the 
blade from its polymorphed state, by us 
ing a dispel magic spell, the rock changes 
into a large locked, wooden case, A stand 
ard open locks skill check is required to 
open the case. (The lock and box take 50 
points of damage each before breaking.) 
Once opened, the characters see a beauti 
ful sword, ornately decorated with cryptic 
writing along its long blade-much like 
the other Blades of Corusk. This sword, 
designed specifically for the thief, is de 
tailed in the "New Magical Items" section. 

Once the thief character picks up the 
blade, it silently scans the area, determin 
ing who is allied with the character and 
who is a foe-excluding the Kabloona bar 
barians. It then creates clones of the party. 




These exact replicas are used to deter 
mine if the characters are worthy to pos 
sess Harmonizer. 

The Dungeon Master should determine 
randomly if the NPC wizards survive the 
ordeal. Each wizard has a 50% chance of 
surviving, but the adventure's continua 
tion requires that at least one wizard sur 
vive. 

If a clone defeats a character, the clone 
disappears. The clone does not attack any 
one except the character it was cloned 
from. It is permissible for PCs to attack 
another's clone, however. 

After the battle. Karasten-or the 
surviving wizard-asks to look at Harmo 
nizer. 


As the mage gazes at the blade, a 
spark of recognition gleams in his eye. 
'Tve got it! It is so simple, a child could 
figure it out! Here, give me the rest of 
the swords!" 


When the characters hand over the oth 
er four blades, he places them side-by- 
side. After rearranging them several 
times, he finally arranges them in an al 
ternating pattern. (Refer to the picture on 
page 47 for the blades' placement.) The 
mage takes 2d6 rounds to organize the 
blades. 


Finished at last, the mage stands and 
points to the blades. "When arranged in 
this way. read the runes across the 
blades. This is where the awakening 
spell has been hidden. Amazing, is it 
not? It's no wonder the spell has eluded 
us for all these years," 








V:' 1 ! 



Chapter 4. 

Return of the Great 


The mage retrieves scrolled paper from 
his satchel and starts copying the sum 
moning spell. This process takes another 
2d6 rounds. If the characters demand the 
spell be read immediately, the mage oblig 
es them grudgingly, especially if the Kab- 
Ioona barbarians are there to assure his 
compliance. 


The mage sits down in front of the 
five Blades of Corusk and meditates for 
a minute. His hands move over the 
blades as he reads the magical writings. 
A frigid wind comes from the west, 
blowing the powdery snow in swirling 
whirlwinds. The words coming from his 
mouth sound like gibberish to you. As 
he reads the spell, a loud thunderclap 


sounds above you. 

As the echoes of the thunder die 
down, the swords shake and hum. Sud 
denly the swords disappear with an 
abrupt popping noise, and the snow 
turns to steam beneath them. You all 
hear a sharp "crack" behind you, and a 
sudden blast of wind pushes you for 
ward. Surprised, the mage stops read 
ing and spins around to see what 
happened. 

As you turn about, you see a barbari 
an giant standing before you. Appearing 
perfectly human, except for his 12-foot 
height, the man smiles down at you 
with a kind face. Ttoo huge wolves stand 
on each side of him; these four beasts 
eye you with amber eyes. Meanwhile, 
the troops from the north and the south 
west continue approaching. 

"Thank you, my children. You have 
awakened me from centuries of cursed 
sleep, In gratitude. 1 shall grant you 


gU 







41 







inon me. they disperse once again." 

Why did you appear before the spell 
reading was complete? "The rest of the 
spell is superfluous. It was placed there 
to make the blades' writing symmetri 
cal." 

Why don't you stop the approaching 
armies? The people in the armies all 
have the right to exist and the right to 
wage war. if they so choose. They chose 
to fight, and we shall fight them on their 
terms. Interrupting the proper flow of 
events is a crime against all." 


your most intimate desires as long as 
they do not alter the path events are 
destined to follow. Speak to me." 


DM's Note: If Karasten completed or even 
started copying the spell from the swords, 
the scroll paper he used turns to dust. The 
god the characters called upon does not 
want the spell to be accessible in any 
fashion. 

Any characters who died in the battle 
with their clones are instantly brought 
back to life, cured of all damage. 


Granting of Wishes 

The being the characters now face (as far 
as they know) is the Great God of the North. 
All the characters, including the NPCs. 
must roll saving throws vs. spell with a -6 
penalty. All who fail are charmed by his 
god-like Charisma. Charmed characters 
maintain control of themselves, but they 
will do anything this god asks. 

The deity promises to grant the charac 
ters each a wish. The wish need not be 
worded precisely, since the god will grant 
what they mean to say. not exactly what 
they say. Wishes contributing to the indi 
vidual character that do not alter the pass 
ing of current events are allowed . Wishing 
that the two approaching armies disap 
pear is unacceptable. Wishing for ad 
vancement in levels (two maximum), 
money (100,000 gp maximum), better 
statistics (two stats increased by 2 maxi 
mum). or magical items (no artifacts) are 
allowed. Wishes that harm other people 
are not granted. 

The two mages request the ability to 
cast more powerful spells. In response, the 
deity advances them two levels each. 


The deity looks over your heads to 
ward the northeast. A smile breaks 
across his leathery face, showing pearly 
while, perfect teeth, "Look, the great 
armies of the Ice Barbarians come to 
fight at our side. Behind them, the 
Snow and Frost Barbarians prepare to 
join the fray. Our peoples are finally as 
one. This is the way it was meant to be 
since the dawn of Oerth." 

As you turn to look behind you, the 
faint sound of seal skin drums and 
mammoth tusk horns reaches your 
ears. Riding on beasts ranging from 
horses to musk oxen, the barbarians 
approach just as the Great God said. 

The god turns and looks at the ap 
proaching enemy armies. A glint of 
pleasure gleams from his night-black 
pupils. He heaves a sigh and turns to 
look at you. 

"It has begun." 


The adventure does not end here. 
The GRBYHAWK (r) Wars boxed set is 
the exciting finale to this trilogy. It 
details the five-year-long war that 
wracks these lands. The entire east 
ern portion of Oerth forever changes! 
The GREYHAWK Wars game is sched 
uled for sale in December, 1991. 


Asking Questions 

• What happened to the Blades? "When 
the blades of Corusk are used to sum- 


42 


. 







Chapter 5. 

Should The Characters 
Fail 

The two armies evenly split the swords 
between them. The Hold of Stonefist army 
takes The Edge and Greenswathe, while 
the Rovers of the Barrens take Dream- 
singer and Stalker. Harmonizer, if still in 
its polymorphed state, remains where it 
has been for centuries. If Harmonizer is 
transformed from its rock slate, the Stone- 
fist army takes it with them. 

The Stonefist army takes the characters 
to the city of Armaran. The city is 270 
miles away. During this journey, the 
Dungeon Master should not roll for ran 
dom encounters-the group is too large to 
be attacked by small groups of monsters. 

As the army heads north, the characters 
are placed on separate mounts. Their 
hands are tied behind their backs. Each 


horse is led by a Stonefist warrior. TWo 
other warriors Hank the character, making 
sure he does not escape. The surviving 
mages do not attempt an escape unless 
the characters flee their captors first. 

During the nine-day journey to Ar 
maran, the Dungeon Master should allow 
each character a Strength Check to break 
his bonds, or a Dexterity Check to slip his 
hands through the ropes. If either of these 
feats succeed, the character's hands are 
free. The guards have a 15% chance to see 
the character free himself. (The guards, 
confident in their knots, do not watch the 
characters all the time.) If this is detected, 
the warrior yells a warning and tries to 
stop the character's horse. 

If the PC tries to bolt the horse away, he 
must roll a successful Strength Check to 
pull the reins from the Stonefist warrior's 
hands. The character can easily maneuver 
the horse to escape the Stonefist party. In 
response, the warriors launch 2d6 arrows 
at him. 


tHE Ciry OF ARMARAN 


TZaveuN 
2 . Inn 

3- V \ V i 

4 . Faitiu 

5. RaNcn - 

6. Gulljousc ^ 

7- QcNcrtai stone 1 


0 . stable 
9 - Bannacks 










whenever anyone gets within five feet of 
the swords. The screaming attracts all the 
guards in the building. If someone ap 
proaches the swords. 30 additional 3rd- 
level warriors arrive within ld4 rounds. 


If any PCs escape, 2d 10 warriors chase 
after them for two turns, then turn back. 
Realizing the characters have no 
supplies-money, water, weapons, or 
food-they believe the characters will die 
in a few days. 

The nearest cities to the characters are 
Keiten and Bastro. The Dungeon Master 
should keep track of the amount of time 
taken to reach these cities. The Dungeon 
Masters Guide has rules for extended 
time periods between meals and rules for 
dehydration. 

If they make it Lo a city, they can find 
someone who helps them. (Every city has 
its kind folk.) After that, the characters 
can stop the adventure, or they can go 
after the swords once again. The following 
sections describe the two cities they must 
travel to in order to retrieve the swords. 

If the characters do not escape or choose 
not to escape, they are taken to the city of 
Armaran. Their captors shackle their an 
kles with chains, and sell them as slaves. 
The Dungeon Master can give them oppor 
tunities for escape if he chooses. When a 
slave escapes and is caught, he is whipped 
for 10d2 points of damage and sent back 
to his owner. Subsequent escape attempts 
are dealt with more harshly, though the 
exact punishment is left up to the DM. 


Warriors: Int Very to Highly (11-14); AL 
LN, CN: AC 6; MV 12; HD F3; THACO 18; 
hp 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld8: SZ M (6' tall); ML 
Average (8-10); XP 120 each 


Once past the magic mouth spell, a 
glyph of warding lies waiting to shock a 
character lor 10d4 points of electrical 
damage, if the character attempts to grab 
a sword. The glyph is the last layer of de 
fense against theft of the swords. 

If the characters make it out of the cen 
tral building, they can escape the town 
only if they have mounts or magical 
means to increase their movement rates 
to 18. People caught stealing the swords 
can expect a quick death. The Stonefist 
warriors track the characters for the rest 
of the adventure, hoping to get the blades 
back. These 15 3rd-level trackers are al 
ways ld4 days travel behind the charac 
ters. If the characters double back, they 
encounter the trackers. 


The Village of Syt 

Located at location P3-48 on the poster 
map in The WORLD OF GREYHAWK(r) 
boxed set. Syt is a small tent village sur 
rounded on all sides by the flat plains of 
the Barrens. Groups of five 4th-level war 
riors roam the surrounding countryside, 
looking for interlopers. TWelve guard 
groups are on patrol at all times, day or 
night. A 10% chance per turn exists for 
the characters to encounter one of these 
groups. Dreamsinger and Stalker can be 
found in the leader's tent (though no one 
volunteers this information). 


The City of Armaran 

Located at location Y2-32 on the poster 
map in The WORLD OF GREYHAWK(r) 
boxed set, Armaran is a medium-sized, 
well-fortified city (see the map on page 
43). The leader's residence, in the center 
of town on the peak of a hill, is where the 
two swords are now kept. If the characters 
speak in Common, they can find informa 
tion regarding the location of the blades. 

Guarded at all times by 13 3rd-level 
warriors, the two Blades of Corusk are 
treated as artifacts. As if 13 warriors are 
not enough, a magic mouth spell protects 
the blades as well. The spell screams 


Warriors: Int Very to Highly (11-14); AL 
LN. CN; AC 4; MV 12: HD F4: THACO 17 


44 




ehe villaqe of syr 


CouRal 


8; MV 12; HD FO; 'I'HACO 20; hp 7; ft AT 1 
Dmg ld4: SZ M (6' tall): ML Average (8- 
10): XP 15 


The village has over 100 tents. They 
form a semi-circle facing to the south. If 
the characters approach from the south, 
they stand a 50% chance of being spotted 
before they reach the village. If they enter 
the village from the north, their chance of 
being spotted is only 10%. 

The middle tent-the largest-belongs 
to the village leader, his wife, and his sev 
en children. If the characters enter this 
tent, there is an 85% chance the tenL is 
occupied by the leader's family. The leader 
himself, a 12th-level warrior/priest, has a 
30% chance of being there. 


Children (7): Int Average (8-10): ALLN. 
CN. CG; AC 10; MV 12; HD FO; THACO 20 
hp 1, 2. 3, 3. 5. 6, 6; #AT 1: Dmg ld2 with 
small knives (Children under 5 hp do not 
attack): SZ S (2'-5' tall): ML Unreliable (2- 
4); XP 15 


If the characters kill any children or the 
woman, the leader hunts tire characters to 
the death (his or the PCs) to avenge this 
affront. All but the leader must roil a Mo 
rale Check every time the characters 
strike them-by weapon or by hand. If the 
characters engage in battle with anyone, 
there exists a 25% chance per round of 
fighting for ld8 warriors t o join the fray. If 
that die roll fails, the warriors assume the 
battle is a family squabble. 

Searching the tent, the characters find 
the swords tucked away under the bed 


Leader: Int Very to Highly (11-14); AL LN; 
AC -2; MV 12; HD F12/P12; THACO 9: hp 
91; #AT 2; Dmg Id8/ld8: SZ M (6' tall); ML 
Fanatic (18); XP 3,000 


Wife: Int Very to Highly (11-14); AL N: AC 


45 



wrappings in the back corner. Wrapped in 
furs and blankets, the weapons are well 
protected from damage and the elements. 

Leaving the village is more difficult than 
entering. If the characters have mounts 
behind the tents, they see several men 
standing around them, inspecting the sad 
dlebags and the animals' teeth. Within ten 
rounds of the characters entering the tent, 
these men take the horses to the stables in 
the center of the village. 

If the characters try to retrieve their 
horses, it takes them ld6 rounds to reach 
the stables, but the men in the village no 
tice them within ld6 rounds. Taking one 
round to mount a horse and kick it into 
action makes the prospect even more of a 
gamble. 

If the characters' d6 roll is 2 pips less 
than that of the village men. they success 
fully escape. Any other result means the 
villagers attempt to pull the characters off 
the horses. The PCs must each roll a suc 
cessful Dexterity Check to stay on their 
horses. If a check fails, the men pull that 
character down. 

Ending the Sidetrack 

After the characters have the four 
blades, they must retrieve the remaining 
blade, Ilarmonizer. The armies from 
Stonefist and the Barrens, realizing the 
characters' probable de itination, head 
back there. But this time the characters 
have ld4 days to figure out the Harmoniz- 
er problem. The Dungeon Master should 
refer to Chapter 4 to continue. 

If the characters have all five blades, 
they must escape from their enemies be 
fore they can call out the Great God. See 
Chapter 4 for details on calling the deity. 

Other Adventuring Ideas 

When the Blades of Corusk are once 
again scattered to the ends of the world, 
the characters may choose to find them 
once more. This, however can be a very 


difficult task. Since the swords are im 
mune to all forms of scrying, they cannot 
be located magically. The Dungeon Master 
can create a rumor mill for the characters 
so they can at least have a place to start. 

Harmonizer must always move to a loca 
tion without inhabitants. This time the 
blade moves to the northernmost peninsula 
of the Hold of Stonefist. It polymorphs into 
a crystalline ice formation similar to a 
stalagmite to hide itself from the humans 
until called upon by he Great God of the 
North. 

The Edge teleports to a lonely island off 
the Sunndi coast. When the characters 
finally anchor at the island, the sword is 
owned by a retired warrior (21st level) in 
the city of Sulward. The man may have 
retired, but he protects his possessions 
valiantly. 

Greenswathe moves to the country of 
Ket. Molvar, in the northern section of Ket. 
is home to its new owner, Andre Kitomyr. 
A high priest of Iuz, this man knows some 
of the powers Greenswathe possesses. He 
does not plan to give up the sword while 
he still lives. He dedicated (blessed) the 
sword in the name of Iuz the Old. 

Dreamsinger is now a holy symbol of 
the Tiger Nomads. The chieftain of this 
loosely banded group, after experiencing 
the dreams it invokes, demanded a new 
religion based upon the obviously divine 
visions it creates. If the characters steal 
the sword, the Tiger Nomads will call for a 
holy quest to destroy them. The Tigers are 
relentless and heartless in their crusade. 

Stalker teleports south and west to the 
Sea of Dust. Hidden in the shrine of a long- 
forgotten goddess. Stalker ends its journey 
200 miles south of the Forgotten City. The 
journey here is made perilous by huge 
sand worms that are attracted to vibrations 
in the ground. These creatures arc only a 
minor enemy compared to nature itself. 
Hundreds of miles of arid, desolate land 
can kill the strongest of men. Those who 
find Stalker truly deserve its power. 

































Combined Monster Statistics Chart 


Monster Name 

Badger, Giant 
Bandit, 4 HD 
Bandit, 5 HD 
Bandit, 6 HD 
Bandit. 7 HD 
Bear. Cave 
Beetle, Stag 
Bugbear 
Centaur 
Crystalmist 
EUin 
FLind 

Caleb Duhr. 8 HD 
Galeb Du hr, 10 HD 
Ghoul 

Giant, Hill. 8 HD 
Giant, Hill, 9 HD 
Giant, Hill, 10 HD 
Giant, Slone 
Giant-kin, Verbeeg 
Gnoll 
Goblin 
Griffon 

Hangman TYee 

Harpy 

Kech 

Lion, Mountain 
Lion, Spotted 
Ogre 

Ogre Mage 
Ore 

Owlbcar 

Ther 

TVeant 

TYoll 

TrolL TWo-Headed 
Tyrg 

Urd, 2 HD 
Urd, 3 HD 
Urd, 4 HD 
Urd, 5 HD 
Wight 
Wolf 

Wolfwere 

Worg 

Wvvern 


AC Move 

4 6, Br 3 
7 12 


hp #AT Dmg 

17 3 Id3/ld3/ld6 

35 1 IdS 

45 I ld8 

55 1 IdS 

65 2 IdS/ldS 

50 3 Id8/ld8;idl2 

50 3 4d4/ Id 10/ldl0 

15 1 2d4 

29 3 Id6/ld6/ld8 

50 1 ld6 

71 2 2d8/3d6 

17 lor2 ld6or Id4/ld4 

50 2 2d8/2d8 

61 2 4d6/4d6 

9 3 Id3/ld3/ld6 

57 1 2tf6 + 7 

63 1 2d6 + 7 

68 1 2d6+7 

95 1 IdS or 2d6+8 

35 2 ld6 +6 (x2) 

10 1 2d4 

4 1 Id6 

37 3 Id4/ld4/2d8 

6 + 1/Yr 3 Id3/ld3/ld3 

32 3 Id3/lcI3/ld6 

29 3 ld4 + l/ld4 + l/ld6 

18 3 Id3/ld3/ld6 

38 3 Id4/ld4/ldl2 

25 1 IdlQ 

29 1 Id 12 

5 1 tdS 

30 3 Id6/ld6/2d6 

22 3 Id6/ld4/ld4 

60 2 4d6/4d6 

38 3 ld4 +4/ld4+4/ld8+4 

59 4 id4+4/ld4+4/ldl2/ldl2 

41 1 Id 12 

12 1 ld3 or ld4 

16 1 ld3 or IcH 

22 1 Id3 or ld4 

40 1 ld3 or ld4 

24 1 ld4+special 

18 1 ld4 +1 

32 1 2d6 

20 1 2d4 

44 2 2d8/ld6 


THACO SA SD AL 

17 N N NN 

f 7 N N NE 

16 N N NE 

15 N N NE 

14 N N NE 

13 Y N NN 

13 N N NN 

17 N N CE 

17 N N CG 

13 y Y NN 

11 N Y CE 

17 Y N LE 

13 Y Y NN 

11 Y Y NN 

19 Y Y CE 

13 Y Y CE 

11 Y Y CE 

11 Y Y CE 

7 Y Y NN 

15 N N NE 

19 N N CE 

20 N N LE 

13 Y Y NN 

13 Y Y NE 

13 Y N CE 

15 Y Y NE 

17 Y Y NN 

15 Y Y NN 

17 Y N CE 

15 Y N LE 

19 N N LE 

15 V N NN 

17 Y N NN 

9 Y Y CG 

13 Y Y CE 

11 Y Y CE 

13 Y N CN 

19 Y N NE 

17 Y N NE 

17 Y N NE 

15 Y N NE 

15 Y Y LE 

17 N Y NN 

15 Y Y CE 

17 N N NE 

13 Y N NE 


48 



Wolf 


WGS2 


CUMATE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY! 

ORGANIZATION: 

Any non-tropical/Land 
Uncommon 

Family 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET^ 

Carnivore 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Low (5-7) 

TREASURE: 

Nil 

alignment: 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

2-12(1% chance of a lone wolf! 

ARMOR CLASS: 

7 

MOVEMENT 

18 

HIT DICE: 

3 

THACO: 

17 

NO, OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

2-5 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

+ i vs, charms because of its 
intelligence. 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

S (2'-4 r long} 

MORALE: 

Average (10) 

XP VALUE: 

120 


The wolf is shrouded in mystery and suspicion. Hu 
mans commonly view the wolf as a vicious killer that 
slaughters man and animals alike for the lack of better 
things to do. It is believed these rumors were started by 
people who were afraid of its high intelligence and tenaci 
ty. The truth is that never in recorded history has a nan- 
rabid or non-charmed wolf attacked a human or 
demihuman. (The chance of encountering a rabid wolf is 
1 % if a lone wolf is confronted .) 

The eyes of wolves are a golden or amber color Al 
though fur colorations vary from species to species, 
based upon the climate they inhabit, all wolves have var 
ious features in common. They are characterized by 
powerful jaws, wide strong teeth, bushy tails, tall, strong 
ears, and round pupils. The wolves of the north exhibit 
colors from pure white, grey, to black, and all shades and 
mixes in between. The southern wolves, and those living 
in more arid climes, are reddish and brown in color. 

The wolf is a very active and cunning carnivore, capa 
ble of surviving in nearly every climate and terrain 
known. They have been seen-or at least their tracks 
have been seen--even in the most arid of deserts, but this 
is a very uncommon occurrence. 

Combat: Wolves most commonly hunt in packs during 
winter and late fall when larger herbivores (deer, moose, 
caribou, musk oxen) arc the only prey available. Wolves 
prefer smaller prey because larger animals require much 
more effort to run down. Even then, the wolves catch on 
ly the weakest or the sickest animals. 

Wolves usually hunt only one large quarry per week 
per pack, going without food for days at a time. Wolves 
prefer eating smaller prey like mice, squirrels, and other 
rodents because they are easier to catch and they are 
more plentiful. During summer months, a wolf can con 
sume over 20 mice in a day. 

Humans poison carrion in hopes of killing the wolves. 
This poisoning has been effective in some areas, but 
mostly the poisoning kills only the coyotes that follow 
the wolf packs to feast upon the carcass once the wolves 



move on. Man also fears that the wolf will kill livestock. 
This happens on occasion, but only in areas where the 
wolf pack is surrounded on all sides by human settle 
ments. When this occurs, the wolves have no other prey, 
since the indigenous deer and other game have been 
killed by humans. The wolves prefer to hunt wild game, 
as opposed to killing cattle that requires that they enter 
human territory. 

If a wolf or wolf pack is attacked by humans, wolves 
tend to run away unless backed into a corner. Even then, 
they attack-usually by tearing at the clothing or legs 
and arms-only until they have an opening to escape, 
Man is the only creature wolves fear, and this explains 
why wolves can be so hard to locale. Wolves leave an area 
once human encroachment occurs. This enables them to 
survive poisoning and human hunters so well 

Habitat/Society: Wolves, like humans and demi* 
humans, are social animals. They live, hunt and play in 
packs-or families, as many sages call them. There is a 
very strict social structure in these family groups. 

Each pack is led by a male, known as the alpha male. 
This male is the strongest and usually the largest of the 
wolves. His mate, the alpha female is the largest and 
strongest of the females. When large prey are brought 
down, the alpha male and female are the first to gorge 
themselves. Thereafter, the other wolves in the packs eat 
in order of their strength. (This weeds out the weaker 
wolves.) 

It is common for wolves to challenge those of a higher 
social status. This is a necessary element in the social 
structure of the wolf pack. Social status determines who 
can eat and when, and it also dictates the right to breed. 

Only the alpha male and alpha female breed, but the 
beta female-the second ranking female, or a former al 
pha female-often helps in whelping and nursing the 








Wolf 


WGS2 


cubs. This assures Ihe continued strength and genetic vi 
tality of the wolf family. Many believe this results in ln- 
breeding, which causes defects lo increase. This is true, 
but the superior trails also become stronger. When a de 
fective wolf is bom-and survives-il is weaker than the 
rest of ihe pack, and it does not get a chance to breed. A 
stronger wolf-one without the defect-has the opportu 
nity to challenge the alpha wolf in order to breed his 
strong genes back into the pack. [Non-alpha wolves in 
the same pack assist the alphas In assuring that no other 
wolves in the pack breed* This guarantees the success of 
the pack,) 

When humans or demihumans encounter wolves, 
these shy animals tend to scamper away in fear, looking 
back momentarily to make sure they arc not being fol 
lowed. Often the only way man knows they exist is by 
spotting their tracks the next morning. 

Wolves prefer areas not inhabited by other predators. 
Their domain usually has a wide variety of terrain fea 
tures on which they can play. Large rocks, fallen trees, 
brooks, and streams arc important parts of their recrea 
tional activities. Without these features, the wolves 
quickly move on until they find a more exciting location. 

Areas with easily dug dirt is important as well. Wolves 
dig dens in this soil to birth their cubs. If the same den is 
used year after year, the den is dug deeper each time. 
This instinct helps protect the cubs from predators. 

Ecology: Wolves are valuable hunters in the wild, help 
ing Lo keep nature in balance. In many areas, fear of the 
beautiful wolf has caused mass hunting and extinction. 
This causes a marked increase in the rodent and deer 
populations, which raises havoc with the surrounding 
ecosystems. Without man's hunting, the variations in 
the wolf population follow those in Ihe deer and caribou 
population. When deer and caribou are plentiful, wolves 
are plentiful; when deer and caribou herds are small- 
often due to hard winters or dry summers-many wolves 
starve, sufficiently lowering their numbers to balance 
the ecosystem. 

In many arctic regions, men stake their in-heat sledge 
dog females ouLside for the wolves to mate. They believe 
this increases the vigor of the breed. In truth, all it does is 
create an animal lorn between its desire to please a mas 
ter and its instinct to run wild and free with others of its 
kind. 

A few men have made contact with the wolf. This is a 
very difficult thing to do. Complete understanding of the 
wolfs language is required. This language is very simple 
by human standards, yet few humans have attempted to 
learn it or even acknowledge iis existence. 

Humans believe that the wolfs howl is its way of mark 
ing Its territory. This is false. The howl is used when the 
wolf has scampered off to investigate something, and the 
rest of the pack has moved elsewhere, out of sight. The 
howl Is a directional beacon to locate the family and so 
cialize again. 

Wolves stare down their opponents in order to deter 
mine who is the stronger. This is commonly used as a 
disciplinary action by the alpha male, when a lower 
male-or female-has done something against the social 
code. This glance Is usually enough to make the trans 
gressing wolf cower at the feet of the alpha male, roiling 
on Its back to expose its vitals. This is a sign of submis 
siveness. 


Greyhawk Deity 
Overview 


Iuz (The Old) 

Demipower of Thrterus, CE(N) 

Portfolio: Oppression. Deceit. Wickedness. 
Pain 

Specialty Priest Requirements: 

Wisdom: 12 
Intelligence: 14 

Weapons Allowed: As Cleric plus sword 
and scimitar 

Armor: Any 

Major Spheres: All. Combat. Healing, 
Summoning, Necromantic 

Minor Spheres: Divination, Elemental, 
Protection 

Magical Items Allowed: Same as Clerics 

Granted Powers: 

• Specialty priests of Iuz cannot turn un 
dead, but they can command them. 
Clerics of Iuz can turn undead but they 
cannot command them. 

• At 3rd level, priests of Iuz can identify 
poisonous plants, animals and water 
with 98% accuracy. 

• At 6th level, specialty priests of Iuz can 
cast undetectable lie and misdirection 
once per week each. 

• At 9th level, specialty priests of Iuz have 
the ability to summon a lava para- 
elemental (as the conjure fire elemental 
spell). They may do so a number of 
times per week equal to their level mi 
nus 8. 

• At 12th level, a specialty priest of Iuz 
can cast a mislead spell once per week. 

• One spell is completely forbidden to both 
clerics and specialty priests of Iuz-true 
seeing or devices that use true seeing". 
Priests of Iuz who use this spell perma 
nently lose their ability to cast spells. 
There Is no penalty for casting the re 
verse of the spell, false direction. 


Other Notes: 

Priests ofluz are commonly called Liars 
or Oppressors. In most cultures, calling 
someone these names is an insult, but not 
with the Iuzians. It is a most honored title. 

Worship of Iuz is uncommon and usu 
ally suppressed by local authorities. His 
followers prefer to keep a low profile, even 
in cities and countries that profess to tol 
erate their ways. 

Often the clerics of Iuz arc multi-classed 
with either the wizard or fighter class. 
This gives them the edge they require in 
order to cast their oppression upon people 
who would normally fight a weaker ty 
rant. 

When the Blades of Corusk are brought 
together to awaken the Great God of the 
north, Iuz steps in before the spell runs its 
course: he does this to deny the Great God 
his awakening, and to make the barbari 
ans believe he is the Great God. He then 
instructs the barbarians to rampage 
through the very heart of Oerik to incite 
his oppressive demands. 

The swords, brought together, are the 
only way to awaken the Great God. Unit 
ed, they can also be used to defeat any 
who wrongly profess to he The Great God. 
If these five Blades of Corusk remain to 
gether, they have the capacity to destroy 
Iuz, sending him back to the plane of his 
origin. This is why Iuz scatters the swords 
once he enters the scene at t he end of the 
adventure. 




read magic, sleep, unseen servant ; 2nd 
level- alter self, continual light, ESP. fog 
cloud, hypnotic pattern, know alignment, 
mirror image, strength : 3rd level- dispel 
magic, fireball, fly, Leomund's tiny hut, 
lightning bolt, slow; 4th level- confusion, 
fear, ice storm, polymorph self, stoneskin, 
wizard eye 

Special Possessions: dagger +2. bracers 
of defense AC 5, ring of protection +1, 
wand of lightning [five charges), dust of 
disappearance [four pinches) 

Mallon Fer'Asque is a young Nyrondese 
half-elf. He is deeply devoted to his tutor 
and mentor. Karasten Meldraith. who re 
sides in White Fanged Bay. Karasten has 
saved the half-elf's life at least twice and 
Mallon feels a strong dept of loyalty to the 
old mage. 

Mallon himself is a little twitchy, rather 
insecure and shy, but he feels he has a 
charming manner and agreeable features 
and is generally well-liked. His nervous 
motions generally make those around him 
nervous as well. He is rather diffident, 
makes overwrought little chopping ges 
tures with his hands, and his tension 
shows in the knit brow and in the bunch 
ing of muscles at the back of his neck and 
between his shoulders. 

Mallon is something of a scholar, enjoy 
ing the study of old languages and leg 
ends; his researches at Karasten's request 
have borne some fruit. 


NPC Roster 


These two NPCs were first introduced in 
the module Five Shall Be One. This mod 
ule suggested these characters could be 
used as standard player characters. How 
ever, with the player characters possess 
ing three of the five sword of Corusk at the 
beginning of this adventure, the help 
these two men can give should be dimin 
ished. 

It is suggested that the Dungeon Master 
run these two men as NPCs. Having Mal 
lon Fer'Asque tag along to insure the play 
ers perform their quest correctly is a good 
idea, but because of the distrust barbari 
ans have for mage characters, he tries not 
to use magic unless absolutely necessary. 
Mallon does not wish to insult or frighten 
the player characters. Please see the ''Pre 
generated Player Characters" section for 
more information on this distrust. 

Mallon Fer'Asque 

8th-Level Half-Elven Male Wizard 

Str: 9 Dex: 9 Con: 15 

Int: 17 Wis: 11 Cha: 14 

AL: Neutral hp: 29 

THACO: 18 AC: 4 

Weapon Proficiencies: dagger, dart 
Nonweapon Proficiencies: ancient lan 
guages (17). etiquette (14), herbalism (17). 
read/write (17). spellcraft +2(17) 
Languages: Common, Elven. Flan, 
Nyrondese 

Experience Point Ihlly: 132.618 
Special Abilities: 30% resistant to s/eep 
and charm, spells detects secret doors 1 in 
6 (2 in 6 if concentrating): 60' infravision 
Spell Use: 4 lst-Ievel, 3 2nd-level. 3 3rd- 
level. and 2 4th-level spells per day 
Spell Book: 1st level- charm person, 
color spray, detect magic, feather fall, 
identify, magic missile, phantasmal force. 




Karas ten Meldraith 

lOth-Level Human Male Wizard 

Str: 7 Dex: 9 Con: 10 

Jnt: 18 Wls: 16 Cha: 14 

AL: Neutral hp: 28 

THACO: 17 AC: 2 

Weapon Proficiencies: dagger, quarter- 
staff 

Non weapon Proficiencies: ancient histo 
ry +1 (19), ancient languages + 1 (19), 
etiquette (14), heraldry +1 (19). read/write 
(17), spellcraft +2 (18) 

Languages: Cold Tongue, Common. 

Flan. Old Suloise 
Experience Point Tklly: 301,954 
Spell Use: 4 Ist-level, 4 2nd-level, 3 3rd- 
level. 2 4th-level. and 2 5th-level spells per 
day 

Spell Books (kept in bag of holding with 
magic mouth spell cast to scream if any 
one other than Karasten touches the bag): 
1st level-burning hands, cantrip, charm 
person, comprehend languages, detect 
magic, erase, feather fall, light, magic mis 
sile, mending, read magic, shield, unseen 
servant: 2nd level-blur, darkness 15' ra 
dius, detect evil, detect invisibility. ESP, 
forget, invisibility, knock, levitate, mirror 
image, ray of enfeeblement. scare, stink 
ing cloud, strength, web. wizard lock: 3rd 
level- clairvoyance, dispel magic, fireball. 
fly. hold person, invisibility 10' radius, 
non-detection, sepia snake sigil. slow, sug 
gestion, wind walk: 4th level-charm 
monster, confusion, contagion, detect 
sending, enervation, fear, hallucinatory 
terrain, ice storm, minor globe of invulner 
ability, polymorph self, Rary's mnemonic 
enhancer, solid fog, wall of fire; 5th level- 
cloud kill, cone of cold, extension II. 
feeblemind, hold monster, passwall, send 
ing, shadow door, teleport, wall of force 
Special Possessions: dagger +2. +3 ver 
sus large creatures, bracers of defense AC 
3. ring of protection +1. ring of warmth. 


wand of fire (22 charges), whirling irides 
cent ioun stone (allows Karasten to be sus 
tained without air), bag of holding 
(500-pound capacity) 

Karasten is a Nyrondese mage of some 
antiquity. Chronologically he is well into 
his 80s. but biologically he appears in his 
60s or so, due to potions of longevity and 
similar magic. He is obsessed with myths 
and legends of the Suloise people and has 
taught himself the Old Suloise tongue to 
further his research. He is somewhat of a 
recluse now, continuing his research 
mostly through the work of his students 
and pupils. 

Karasten is somewhat forgetful and aca 
demically minded, but he plays this up 
quite deliberately to make people think 
he's less attentive than he actually is. 
Likewise, he uses a staff to support him 
self when he walks, so as to appear feeble. 
Karasten carefully stage-manages himself 
to appear less potent than he really is. 

Karasten. being forgetful, tends to have 
difficulty memorizing spells. In light of 
this, the Dungeon Master should pay very 
close attention to his rolls regarding spell 
memorization to reflect this misfortune. 







Special Possessions: baft/e axe + i, dag 
ger + J, dwarf-sized lea ther armor +2, 
gauntlets of dexterity, bag of holding 
(1.500 pound capacity) 

Stumred is a mountain dwarf from 
Ratik. He is more outgoing and sociable 
than many of his people, despite his poor 
Charisma, and he also knows Helden from 
previous trips together. He likes and trusts 
the honest barbarian leader. 

Stumred has seen several winters of 
fighting with the Frost Barbarians down 
in the Bone March, but he is also knowl 
edgeable about the Griff Mountains and 
knows his way about the passes and val 
leys to the west of the Frost Barbarian 
lands. He is a very competent, careful ad 
venturer and mountaineer and he hates 
taking undue risks. 

Stumred is nobody's fool when it comes 
to traveling. He likes to get well-organized 
with supplies and resources and he likes 
attending to details. He is almost a quar 
termaster for any adventuring group. Of 
course, his magical bag gives him a dis 
tinct advantage in this respect. 

Stumred's clan of dwarves lives to the 
west of the Timberway Forest, thus he 
and his people are very familiar with the 
Fruztii. Although he doesn't have Cold 
Tongue listed as a proficiency, the DM may 
allow him to pick up the gist of a conver 
sation if he makes a successful Intelli 
gence check. 


Pregenerated Player 
Characters 


These six pregenerated player charac 
ters were introduced in the module Five 
Shall Be One . the first part of this trilogy 
of adventures that ends with the 
GREYHAWK * Wars boxed set. If your 
group played that adventure and used the 
pregenerated PCs. continue with those 
PCs, as the versions given here will differ 
from those of your players. 

If your players did not play in the first 
module, the characters given here should 
be used. This is suggested to retain the 
"barbarian" flavor of the adventure. 


Stumred Barduran 

6th/7th-level Mountain Dwarf 
Fighter/Thief 

Str: 16 Dex: 17 Con: 16 

Int: 9 Wis: 9 Cha: 8 


AL: Neutral 
THACO: 15 


Weapon Proficiencies: battle axe, cross 
bow. dagger, short sword, war hammer 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: blindfighting 
(NA), endurance (16), jumping (16). moun 
taineering (NA) 

Languages: Common. Dwarven, Gnom 
ish 

Experience Point Thlly: 60.192 (per 
class) 

Special Abilities: Thief skills (PP 35%. 
OL 80%, FRT 70%. MS 35%. HS 25%. DN 
65%. CW 70%. RL 15%), triple damage on 
backstab, racial underground detection 
abilities (PHB, p.21), +4 bonus to saves 
vs. spell and poison; + 1 bonus to attack 
rolls versus ores and goblins (and half-ores 
and hobgoblins); ogres, trolls, ogre magi, 
giants, and titans attack him with a -4 
penalty to their attack rolls: 60' infra 
vision 


Baern Barraeth 

7th-level Human Male Fighter 

Str: 18/56 Dex: 10 Con: 17 

Int: 11 Wis: 14 Cha: 11 


AL: CN 
THACO: 14 


Weapon Proficiencies: bastard sword 
(specialized), battle axe. club, long bow 
long sword, spear, two-handed sword 






very subservient to such figures and acts 
almost meekly toward them. At other 
times, he is fiercely independent and stub 
born and may oppose the word of author 
ity simply because it is the word of 
authority. 

Baern often keeps his own counsel and 
may act independently, but if he gives his 
word on a planned course of action, he 
sticks with it. He is also loyal to his fellows 
and would never abandon a friend to dan 
ger. He is distrustful of spellcasters, be 
cause he has a morbid fear that they may 
somehow read his mind or control his 
thoughts. 


Nonweapon Proficiencies: animal han 
dling (13), endurance (17), hunting (13), 
mountaineering (NA), running (11) 
Languages: Cold Tbngue, Common 
Experience Point Thlly: 101,725 
Special Possessions: bastard sword +1, 
+3 versus regenerating creatures, chain 
mail + J, shield +1, long bow +1, potion 
of extra-healing 


Baern is a hardy man-tough even by 
barbarian standards. He is a skilled moun 
taineer, and he is accustomed to long cold 
days and nights hunting and fighting in 

' mountains to the north of his 
ha s fought against the war 
riors ol Stonetist for several years and has 
a grudging respect for their durability as 
opponents. 

Baern is the only son of a father crippled 
by the claws of a mountain bear. He has a 
strange ambivalence toward authority 
figures as a result of seeing his father so 
weakened. On one hand, he is sometimes 





Fenestir "Swifthand" 
Galander 


8th-Level Human Female Ranger 

Str: 15 Dex: 17 Con: 15 

Int: 10 Wis: 14 Cha: 12 


Weapon Proficiencies: Dagger, footman's 
mace, long sword, long bow, spear, short 
sword 

Non weapon Proficiencies: endurance 
(15). mountaineering (NA), survival-hilly 
and mountainous climates (10). tracking 
+ 2 (16). weather sense (13) 

Languages: Cold Tbngue. Common, 

Flan 

Experience Point Thlly: 241,362 
Special Abilities: Can cast one Ist-level 
priest spell per day (animal or plant 
spheres), +4 attack roll bonus against gi 
ants, hide in shadows 54% (27% non 
natural settings), move silently 67% (33% 
non-natural settings), can alter reactions 
of natural animals (see PHB. p,29) 

Special Possessions: short sword + 1, 
dagger +2, studded leather armor +2. 
potion of fire giant strength, jar of 
Keogh tom s ointment (four doses) 


Fenestir is a rough, tough, tom boyish 
young woman who has already made a 
name for herself within the ranks of the 
Fruztii. She has fought in the mountain 
passes of the Griffs in the winter, jour 
neyed into Stonefist to fight and Tenh to 
escort (this is where she learned to speak 
Flan), and wandered far and wide through 
the barbarian lands. She is curious and 
independent-a true free spirit. 

Fenestir prefers a strong leader in any 
group she is with, providing that the lead 
er has the brains (in addition to the 
strength) to maintain group cohesion and 
make his word stick. She prefers not to 
have to worry about leadership. This al 


lows her to concentrate on what she does 
best: scouting, searching, and keeping 
watch. She doesn't suffer fools gladly, but 
is always happy to have strong fighters 
around to stand shoulder to shoulder with 
her when combat beckons. 

Fenestir has little time for non 
barbarians. believing their men to be 
milksops and their women to be subservi 
ent ninnies. She expresses these views 
unambiguously and tactlessly when she 
feels like it, and does this sometimes just 
to be mischievous. 


Weapon Proficiencies: club, scimitar, 
spear, sling 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: direction 
sense (18). healing (15), herbalism (8), 
rope use (15), weather sense (16) 


AL: NG 
THACO: 13 


hp: 56 
AC 3 


Ingrid Hashandir 

9th-Level Human Female Druidess 
of Obad-Hai 


AL: Neutral 
THACO: 16 


hp: 47 
AC 3 


Str: 11 
Int: 10 


Dex: 15 
Wis: 17 


Con: 15 
Cha: 16 




Languages: Cold Tbngue, Common, 
Druidic 

Experience Point Thlly: 346.624 
Special Abilities: identify plants, natural 
animals, and pure water, pass through 
overgrown areas at normal movement 
rate and leave no trail, immune to charm 
spells cast by woodland creatures, shape- 
change to bird, reptile or mammal three 
times per day, + 2 to saving throws vs. fire 
and electrical attacks 

Spell Use: 6 lst-level, 6 2nd-level. 4 3rd- 
level, 2 4th-level, and 1 5th-level spells per 
day; spheres allowed: all. animal, divina 
tion (minor), elemental, healing, plant, 
weather 

Special Possessions: spear +1. shield 
+ 1, ring of protection +2 (with normal 
leather armor), potion of flying, magical 
jar that keeps her mistletoe fresh for up to 
12 months 


Sabrala Starbreaker 

9th-Level Half-Elven Female Bard 

Str: 9 Dex: 16 Con: 9 

Int: 16 Wis: 13 Cha: 17 


AL: CN 
THACO: 16 


Weapon Proficiencies: broadsword, 
short sword, short bow 
Nonweapon Proficiencies: artistic ability 
(13), disguise (16). musical instrument- 
northern pipes (15). read/write (17), sing 
ing (17) 

Languages: Cold Tongue. Common. El- 
ven. Flan 

Experience Point 'Thlly: 129,966 
Special Abilities: Bard skills (PP 30%. 

DN 50%, CW 80%, RL 75%). singing im 
proves combat abilities of friends (see 
PHB, p. 42-43). can modify NPC reactions 
by up to -3 if they fail a saving throw vs. 
paralyzation, 45% chance to know some 
thing of history of an identifiable magical 
item, 30% resistant to sleep and charm 
spells; Finds secret doors 1 in 6 (2 in 6 if 
concentrating), 60' infravision 
Spell Use: 3 lst-levei. 3 2nd-level, and 2 
3rd-level wizard spells per day 
Spell Book: 1st level- change self, 
charm person, comprehend languages, 
detect magic, light, magic missile, read 
magic, shield: 2nd level-detect invisibili 
ty, ESP, glitterdust, improved phantasmal 
force. Invisibility, knock, web: 3rd level- 
dispel magic, fireball, fly, hold person, pro 
tection from evil 10' radius 
Special Possessions: broadsword +1. 

+2 versus magic using and enchanted 
creatures, cloak of protection +2 (leather 
armor), boots oflevitation. brooch of 
shielding (40 hit points remaining) 


Ingrid is a fascinating and rare barbari 
an. She is an albino with platinum-blonde 
hair, exceptionally tall at 6'2§", with very 
slender limbs and hands. She has a natu 
ral grace and beauty that is unforgettable 
because of the rarity of her appearance. 

Ingrid loves wilderness, the purity of 
mountains and ice. rivers, and forests. 

She loves to travel wherever her feet take 
her in the northeastern lands. She is a 
pragmatic woman, earthy and self- 
possessed. and she has a very practical 
common sense. She can spot Haws in tac 
tics and strategies easily, and likes to have 
the practical details of plans well 
attended-to. 

Ingrid is an orphan without family ties, 
but within her tribe she is valued for her 
healing skills and kindly nature. 


No one can remember when Sabrala 
came from the lands of the Ice Barbarians 
or how a slip of a girl with an elven father 
ever got born there. But the wild-eyed 


57 


young bard with the heart-breaking voice 
brought her stories and visions to the 
Frost Barbarians and they took her to 
their hearts. Her pipe rendering of the for 
lorn Flowers of the Forests has brought 
tears to the eyes of barbarians long hard 
ened by battle and death, and she has 
played and sung several times for the 
King himself. 

Sabrala becomes almost possessed 
when she sings, recites, or plays the mu 
sic dearest to her. She almost seems to 
become figures in the legends, to assume 
their mantles and sorrows, and her per 
formance is breathtaking. The more pow 
erful the legend, the deeper Sabrala 
becomes immersed in it and the more in 
spired she becomes. 

Sabrala's taken name. Starbreaker. 
comes from an old Fruztii expression re 
lating to the exhalation of breath in bitter 
ly cold air. The breath frosts at once and 
tiny snowflakes fall to the ground appear 
ing like the breaking of stars. The King 
once compared Sabrala's ballad to the 
gentleness of breath falling to the ground, 
and in honor of his compliment, she 
adopted the name she now carries. 

Sabrala travels as she will through the 
world, free-spirited and dreaming, wishing 
only to learn more of legend, song, magic, 
and i imelessness. Other-worldly and 
strange, she is nonetheless not gullible or 
foolish. When it is necessary, a bard must 
sing for her supper and Sabrala knows 
how to use her charm and wit. 


Helden Stormfist 

8th-Level Human Male Fighter 


Str: 17 Dex: 15 Con: 15 

Int: 14 Wis: 9 Cha: 16 

AL: Neutral hp: 58 

THACO: 12 AC: 2 


Weapon Proficiencies: bastard sword, 
composite bow. long sword, spear, two- 
handed sword (specialized) 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: animal lore 
(14). blindfighting (NA). hunting (8), run 
ning (9). survival-cold climates (15) 
Languages: Cold Tongue, Common 
Experience Point ThUy: 188,173 
Special Possessions: two-handed sword 
+1, flametongue, chain mail +2, ring of 
free action, quiver of 14 flight arrows +1 

Helden is a strong, capable barbarian 
who is used to leadership of any group. 
Much smarter than the average barbarian 
warrior. Helden is also cool-tempered and 
somewhat inclined to caution. He tends to 
be thoughtful and patient, less impulsive 
than many of his warrior brothers. 

Helden is the eldest son of a minor Fruz 
tii chieftain and feels both that leadership 
is natural for him, and that he must con 
tinually prove he is worthy of it. He has 
Sought alongside the men of Ratik against 
the humanoids of the Bone March; 

Helden's magical sword was taken from 
the hands of a monstrous ogre chieftain. 

Heiden's major goal at this time is to 
undertake some great adventure, obtain 
some powerful magic, or battle and over 
come some great monster. In short, he 
wishes to perform one great heroic deed to 
establish his reputation, once and for all, 
as a worthy first son and to make himself 
finally feel he is a fit ruler and leader. 





w,/m 


mm. 


y.\vb 

mk 


mi 


pspi 

v74 v iViW#V; 4 v^?j£ 


w 













mmmmamam 


fects of the weapon (see following). 

Dreamsinger allows a barbarian bard to 
cast spells from it. The spells ESP and au 
gury are usable once per day each, and 
divination can be used once per week. The 
answers and information gained by the 
bard through the use of these spells 
should always be conveyed in a metaphor, 
simile, or allegory of some kind. 

Dreamsinger 's Visions 

Dreamsinger communicates informa 
tion about future events involving the 
quest for the blades to its wielder. but only 
in a strange manner. Dreamsinger com 
municates in dreams, as its name sug 
gests, and in these dreams the bard 
owning the weapon sleepwalks and sings 
in his or her sleep. The song is in an un 
known language and the sleepwalker does 
not remember it, but fragments of the 
song remain in the mind. The DM should 
carefully use these dreams fragments to 
tantalize the PCs with hints about the lat 
er stages of the searches for the other 
Blades of Corusk. 

Periodically, Dreamsinger s wielder en 
ters fugue states. Such a state is one of 
intense dreaminess in which awareness of 
the outside world is diminished. This 
means penalties of -3 to surprise rolls 
and -1 to initiative rolls although the 
character functions normally once combat 
has begun. Such a fugue state is 75% 
likely to occur on waking after a dream 
vision, for ld6 hours and 25% likely every 
other day for Id 10 turns at a randomly 
chosen time of day (or a time deliberately 
selected by the DM as a staging device). 

Special Purpose and Power 

The special purpose of Dreamsinger is 
to locate the other Blades of Corusk. This 
should be interpreted fairly strictly by the 
DM. Dreamsinger should be close to an 
other blade, or close to someone or some 
thing that has information about the 


New Magical Items 


The Blades of Corusk 

The five Blades of Corusk are ancient 
magical swords created to function most 
powerfully as a group. Their power de 
pends upon who wields them and how 
many of the blades are together in one 
place at one time. 

All blades are resistant to magical scry 
ing. They do not confer this protection on 
their wielders. Their abilities are ex 
plained in the appropriate text. 

The Blades of Corusk 

Name Align Basic Type 

Harmonizer (N) + 5 Defender, two- 

handed sword 

The Edge (CN) + 3 Bastard sword 
Greenswathe (N) +3 Scimitar 

Dreamsinger (N) +3 Broadsword 

Stalker (NG) +3 Long Sword 


The weapons were made for certain 
types of characters-bard, ranger, etc. The 
pregenerated PCs fit the bill for the best 
use of these weapons. If you use other 
characters, improvise-Dreams/nger can 
be used by a rogue as well as a bard, for 
example, but its unique and strange be 
havior remains the same. 


Dreamsinger , Broadsword 

Dreamsinger is a weapon created for a 
bard. It has a white steel blade and a 
platinum-filigree crosspiece and pummel 
set with fine moonstones. In the hands of 
anyone other than a barbarian bard, it is 
simply a +1 magical sword. In the hands 
of a barbarian bard, it is a +3 weapon that 
also confers a -1 bonus to the AC and a 
+ 1 bonus to all saving throws. There is 
one exception to this: The wielder of 
Dreamsinger has a -1 penalty to saving 
throws vs. illusions and mind-affecting 
spells because of the strange mental ef 


60 





Blades of Corusk, for its special purpose 
powers to operate, 

Dreamsinger has a vicious special pur 
pose power. It launches a ten-foot-long 
/irespearof intense burning power in any 
combat situation related to its special pur 
pose. This Hrespearis treated as a missile 
thrown by the wielder of the blade for at 
tack roll purposes (maximum range of 80 
yards). A successful hit inflicts 6dl0 
points of damage. No saving throw is al 
lowed, but magic resistance (against 20th- 
level magic) applies, and half damage is 
sustained by a creature that is under the 
influence of a resist fire spell, a ring of fire 
resistance, or similar protection. The fires- 
pear can be launched up to twice per day. 

When the fire spear is launched from 
Dreamsinger. a wave of sound ripples radi 
ates out to a 60' radius from it with a faint 
sound of anti phony. This produces an ef 
fect equivalent to a prayer spell affecting 
the sword's user and his party positively 
and enemies negatively in the area of ef 
fect. This lasts for ld6 + 6 rounds. 

This special purpose power isn't com 
municated to the wielder initially. Dream- 
singer makes it known only when its 
special purpose is first aroused. 

Dreamsinger has an Intelligence of 14, 
communicates in its own special way 
(dreaming), and has an Ego of 12. 

Greenswathe, Scimitar 

Greenswathe is a strange-looking weap 
on, almost arcane and alien. It appears to 
be made of gold, but it is as hard as ada- 
mantite. Peculiar arabesques and signs 
are etched into the blade and decorate the 
handle. It has a single emerald set into the 
pommel. 

Greenswathe is a weapon designed for a 
druid. In the hands of anyone else, it is 
simply a scimitar + 1 . In the hands of a 
druid, it is a +3 weapon that also confers 
bonuses of - 1 to the character's AC and 
+1 to all saving throws. A druid who pos 


sesses Greenswathe is allowed to cast one 
additional spell per day in each level he is 
capable of casting, with the proviso that 
the extra spell comes from the plant or 
animal sphere. 

Greenswathe has no special purpose, 
but it does have a special attack form usa 
ble once per day-the armor-piercing 
strike. On command, Greenswathe simply 
sweeps in an arc through armor as if it did 
not exist. A target is treated as having no 
armor, though any magical pluses are still 
counted. For example, striking at a target 
in plate mail +3 that would normally 
have an AC of 0, Greenswathe attacks as if 
striking at a target with AC 7 (AC 10,-3 
for the magical bonus). In addition, if the 
strike is successful. Greenswathe inflicts 
ld3 times the usual damage-between 4- 
11 and 12-33 points of damage to a small- 
or man-sized target. 

The druid picking up Greenswathe in 
stantly has the feeling that this weapon 
has further latent powers that are current 
ly unknown. 

Stalker, Long Sword 

Stalker is an enigmatic and powerful 
weapon that reveals its full powers only in 
the hands of a ranger. To anyone else, it is 
merely a long sword +1. It is a slender 
long sword with a blue steel blade, but its 
hilt, pommel, and crosspiece are of stark 
black metal as hard as adamantite. If 
Stalker is stared at for any length of time, 
it seems to have wisps of shadowstuff 
moving silently across its surface, al 
though this is just illusory ... or is it? 

Stalker is a +3 weapon when used by a 
ranger. The ranger gains a + 1 bonus to 
Wisdom and Intelligence while in posses 
sion of this blade. The ranger also gains a 
+20 bonus to all hide in shadows and 
move silently attempts, and a +4 bonus to 
his tracking skills. 

Stalker bequeaths an affinity with dogs 
and wolves on its owners for an unknown 




reason. The ranger has a Charisma of 18 
when dealing with dogs and wolves (not 
including worgs. tyrgs. winter wolves, or 
canine-like monsters, such as hell 
hounds). While holding Stalker, the ranger 
can speak with animals (dogs and wolves 
only) three times per day. 

The spells that can be used once per day 
each by Stalker's wielder are invisibility, 
invisibility to animals, and invisibility to 
undead. In the process of becoming invisi 
ble. Stalker's wielder seems to become 
shadowy and semi-translucent before he 
fades from sight. 

Stalker does have a special purpose, but 
the sword does not choose to reveal this to 
its owner yet. nor the nature of its special 
purpose power. Stalker is an intelligent 
sword with Intelligence of 14 and an Ego 
of 11: it communicates by empathy. 

Harmonizer, Two-Handed 
Sword 

Harmonizer is a sword especially made 
for the thief character. Across its shiny 
surface, etchings of a wizard performing a 
ritual over five swords can be clearly 
made out. The mage is wearing a white 
robe. Behind the mage, a swirling mass of 
wind and earth coils eerily. 

In the hands of a thief, the sword is a 
Neutrally aligned defender two-handed 
sword +5. but in any other hands, the 
sword is merely a two-handed sword +1. 
Its size and composition make the weapon 
look heavy and bulky, but it weighs the 
same as a standard dagger, making it a 
perfect weapon for the weaker thief char 
acters. 

When this sword is first retrieved, it im 
mediately scans the immediate area, de 
termining who is a foe and who is a friend 
of the thief who possesses the weapon. 
Once this has been determined, the sword 
waits until the friends are alone. At this 
moment. Harmonizer brings into being 
exact replicas of the characters. The new 


ly arrived clones begin fighting the char 
acters with the precision and skill of the 
characters. They also possess identical 
weapons and magical items. Harmonizer 
does this in order to determine the worth 
of its new wielder. 

When battling another thief, the thief 
PC realizes one more bad side effect of the 
sword. It gives the PC the same thieving 
and fighting abilities as the opposing thief 
in order to even the battle. If the opposing 
thief is lesser in level. Harmonizer in 
creases the opposing thief's ability to 
match that of the character. If the thief 
puts the sword down to battle at an ad 
vantage. this tactic works, but the thief 
and his companions must again fight their 
duplicates when the thief picks up the 
sword again. 

The Edge, Bastard Sword 

The Edge is the most unusual-looking 
sword of the five Blades of Corusk. It is a 
bastard sword whose blade is made from 
grayish steel. Its edge never dulls or nicks. 
Attempts at sharpening and honing its 
edge are fruitless. It is said The Edge is so 
sharp that it splits hairs with the slightest 
touch. 

The hilt of the sword is covered in soft 
suede leather, giving the sword a comfort 
able feel. Jutting from the pommel, three 
blackened daggers point outward like ven 
omous fangs. These daggers can be com 
manded to fly from the pommel as though 
they were arrows of accuracy +2. An at 
tack roll is required, as though firing an 
arrow. All three daggers can be shot in 
one round if the wielder so chooses. 

The daggers streak to their target. If 
they hit. the opponent must roll a success 
ful saving throw vs. poison with a -2 pen 
alty or die instantly. The daggers can be 
shot off while the fighter strikes with the 
sword: the command is a single word (The 
Edge informs its wielder of the command 
word). After firing, the daggers must be 





retrieved and placed in the pommel. 
Should the fighter lose two of these dag 
gers, the remaining dagger no longer has 
the capacity to fly on command. (The dag 
gers are poisonous only when they are 
commanded to fly from the pommel, 
otherwise they are daggers +1.) 

This sword was especially made for the 
pure fighter's hands. In this case, pala 
dins, rangers and all other fighter sub 
classes are excluded. In the grasp of a 
fighter. The Edge is a bastard sword +3. 
Should any other character class use this 
sword, it serves as only a bastard sword 
+1 with no other benefits. 

The Edge gives the fighter who possess 
es it a unique ability. Should the character 
roll a natural 18 through 20 on an attack 
roll, the sword slices through whatever 
was in its way. If the opponent was parry 
ing with a weapon. The Edge slices 
through the weapon as though it was lard. 
(If the weapon attacked is magical in na 
ture, the weapon is required to roll a suc 
cessful saving throw vs. disintegration 
with a -3 penalty, otherwise it perma 
nently loses a plus or a special ability- 
determined randomly by the DM. This 
drain continues with each additional high- 
quality hit until the weapon is destroyed.) 

If armor is struck with an 18 to 20 at 
tack roll, the armor must roll a successful 
saving throw vs. disintegration with a -3 
penalty or lose a point of magical bonus or 
special ability-determined by the DM or 
randomly. When the armor is no longer 
magical, it is damaged, penalizing the AC 
it gives by 1 point. When the AC of the 
armor is reduced to 10, it is completely 
useless. 

The Edge has an alignment of Chaotic 
Neutral, possesses an Intelligence of 16 
and an Ego of 12. The Edge has the ability 
to locate Harmonizer, the fifth Blade of 
Corusk. The Edge, when held by the 
blade-stops, points toward Harmonizer. 
This works only when the blade is within 
1,000 feet of Harmonizer. 


63 





Jay 'liimmelum, one of (he RPGA m Network J r top-ranked judges, runs a Timetmutet tournament at 
this year V GEN CON tj Game Fan, 

Can You Take the Ultimate 
Role-Playing Challenge? 

Only dedicated^ players need apply 


UMOR HAS IT that almost 12,000 

gamers who applied for RPGA m Network 
membership at the 1990 GEN CO>\* Game Fair, 
only 200 were accepted. No. that't xmpo ssihlt 
Only 10 , 000people could have applied - 2,000 of 
the gamers were already members. 

All kidding aside, hundreds oTgame players 
joined the RPGA Network at the Game 
Fair-artel for a number of great reasons, 
for instance * . . 

CAN YOU IMAGINE PUBLISHING 
your own story/game, in POLYHEDRON 1 * 
Newsline-that over 8,000 gamers world 
wide will read? 

CAN YOU IMAGINE JUDGING RPGA 
Network sanctioned tournaments at the 
world's largest gaming convention? 


Lt draws thousands of players-including 
the country's best. 

CAN YOU IMAGINE RUNNING game 
demonstrations, speaking at conventions 
and meetings* or even starting new clubs in 
your area? The Network has more than 30 
dubs fnim Canberra (Australia) to Cali for' 
nia and Canada ro Cambridge (England). 

CAN YOU IMAGINE BECOMING one 
of the RPGA Network's select regional di 
rectors? Only 22 directors exist, and they 
promote role-playing around the world. 

CAN YOU IMAGINE GETTING all of 
this, getting magazines, special member 
discounts, and the camaraderie of doze ns ul 
players from around your area for just $15 
per year? 


Join more than 8,00f> top-notched players 
m the world's best gaining network. For 
more information or to join, call us at 
1-800-358-5977, 



NETWORK 



' and ' dMUJfi *]* 1 Ifadsmarh! own"d by tSR. Inc 











Official Game Adventure 


Howl from the North 

by Dale "Slade" Henson 

Barbarian legends tell of five magical blades of 
measureless power. The more civilized cultures of 
warmer climes believe these tales to be nothing 
more than delirious dreams of frost-bitten brains. 
"Those frozen louts-they're trying to scare respect 
out of us!" At least that's what they want to 
believe... 

Three of the legendary Blades of Corusk have 
been unearthed, and their powers have proven to be 
all that the tales claimed. You have been given these 
to use in the quest for the remaining two blades. 
However, word has spread to the peoples of the neighboring areas, and two 
groups are working against you to prevent your securing these swords. Beware 
the Hold of the Stonefist and the Rovers of the Barren! Only so much time 
remains for you to locate the last two Blades of Corusk ... and your enemies are 
on the horizon. 

Find the blades, and reclaim your birthright of honor and respect; fail, and be 
outcast from your tribes for life. The choice is yours. 


tsr, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva 
Wl 53147 
U.S.A. 



TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 



ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, and GREVHAWK are registered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 
The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. 

Copyright ' 1991 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed In U.S.A. 


ISBN 1-56076-143-1 



$9.95 

£6.50 

9337XXX1401 














