Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09159 M 1 Into The Maelstrom"
See other formats
59 
























Masters Game Adventure 


Into the Maelstrom 

by Bruce and Beatrice Heard 



Editor: Anne Gray M,eC ready 
Cover Artist: Jeff Easley 
Interior Artist: Valeric Valusek 
Cartographer: Dave LaForce 
Typography: Betty Elmore 

e 138a TSR Tnt:. AJ] Righu Rrjtnred, Primed itl U.S.A. 

DUNGEONS if DRAGONS and UtD are regiMritHl rrmdemadii 
Ljwn^d by TSR Irtc 

LHfiribul?4 to the book trade in I he Uni in! Stain by Random 
Hi'inw, Inc . and in Canada by Rjuidum Houit tffCanada, Ltd 
I Jilt rtlvuu'd tu the lay and hubby trad? by regional rhtlribulcri Dit 
tribute*) Wl the United Kingdom by TSR UK Lid 

TTlJI mndulc it pmtecred under thr rupyrigtii luwi of ihn United 
SinLti u| America Any repiodui ikm nr other tJimullioriKcd U*e of 
the imntfial or artwork lierei.li li prubibked witiloUE the expreu 
wrilten pcrmitfinn of TSR Inc 

TSR Itw. TSR UK UtL 

FOB 756 The Mill. Rfllhmnre Road 

Lake Geneva, C am bridge CB HAD 

W1 5314? Unilcd Kmgdurn 



TSR, Inc* 

PRODUCTS OF YOUft IMAGINATION * 


Table of Contents 

INTRODUCTION 

Dungeon Master Background .. 

Raising a Fleet ,<**,".,...*•*. ". + *"*** + + .**"***.'<* * 

Monster & Random Encounter Tables . . . ..* 

The Sea Machine ...* * * * *.* * *.*. "¦. 

Chapter i: INTO THE MAELSTROM 

Encounter Setting ..< * *......... 

Immortals' Goals... ........... 

Encounter Key . 

Aftermath ........ 

Chapter 2: FLIGHT TO THE ST\R KINGDOMS 

Encounter Setting ... 

Immortals' Goals .................... , . 

Properties of this World ...* *,*.***,... 

Encounter Key ..................................... 

Immortals' Interventions ....... 

Aftermath .......... 

Chapter 3: FOR THE GLORY OF THE WARLORDS 

Encounter Setting .. .......... 

Aftermath ....... *. 

Chapter 4: BACK INTO THE MAELSTROM 

Encounter Setting ... 

Encounter Key .. ....... .... *. 

Epilogue ............._.........¦* 

LIST OF PLAYING AIDS 

DM Map 1: Sea of Alphatia ... 

DM Map 2: Star Kingdom's Aerial 

Boundaries , 

DM Map 3: Star Kingdoms.... 

DM Map 4: The Final Battle? ... 

DM Map 5: Alpbaks* Mountain ... ..... 

DM Map 6: Flight to the Star Kingdoms-- 

DM Map 7: The Great Sea Spiral. 

New Vessel ", *.....-.. 

New Monster .. ........ 

Prerolled Combat Fleets . .... .... 

Prerolled Characters .... .... - ........ 

Monster Statistics Chart . .... 

Random Encounters Chart ....... 

Sea Machine Combat Table ....... ... ... 

Dimensional Guide to the 

Star Kingdoms .>> * *..*.... * * * 

Players' Map: Sea of Alpbatia _... .. 


2 

3 

3 

4 

5 
5 
5 
7 


8 

8 

8 

8 

21 

21 


22 

24 


26 

26 

29 


......... 6 

.. *,.15 

......... 26 

17 

..... 18 

. inside cover 
. inside cover 
29 

. v.._ 30 

__31 

.. 32 

. inside cover 
. inside cover 
. inside cover 

. inside cover 
Outside cover 


ISBN 0-88038-244 9 


9159 









































INTRODUCTION 


Into the Maelstrom must be played with 
the D&D(r) Master Set rules. Four to eight 
characters of levels 25 to 30 should join the 
adventure. For the best results, the party 
should have a minimum of 150 levels at the 
beginning of the game. 

As soon as the party is ready to start the 
adventure, give them the Players' Map an 
the outside cover. DM Map 1 on page 3 is for 
your reference. It b identical to the Players' 
Map except for the island of Alphaks, 

No mold, early Winter: 

On a dark and gloomy morning, a cold bil 
lowing fog rose over deserted fields and ham 
lets of Norwold. This pestilence carries the 
smell of poison and death. Its unnatural gray 
swirls cover everything, choking ail life that is 
exposed for more than a day This foul wind 
has ravaged the northern realms for three 
weeks. Peasants tell tales of horrible rains 
that bum, leaving dry and barren soil. 
Neighboring realms totter and epidemics 
threaten the cities Famine-stricken peasant 
communities flee southward into the hands of 
ruthless bandits. Woe and chaos spread 
among the population. 

King Ericall's Court, 

Council of Norwold: 

**Your Royal Majesty, wc cannot wait 
much longer, Baron Norlan of Qeodhar has 
renewed his ultimatum. Your subjects are 
slowly perishing From his demonic fumes, 
and the realm is now on the verge of panic. 
We must accept his demands of allegiance or 
meet our doom. 1 ' 

"Never! We shall not surrender to this bold 
and evil blackmail! Baron Norlan is a mere 
puppet of another power. And I will unveil he 
who is behind the plot. 1 ' 

"But Ybur Majesty we may very well run 
into the might of Alphatia, or worse, Thyatis. 
A war could utterly ravage what now remains 
of our land." 

u 5o be it! The poisonous fog isn't any bet 
ter, and surrendering as slaves might be 
worse. Norwold is no prey for petty vultures* 
and those plotting to tread our soil must move 
forward and pay the full cost for their despic 
able treachery. My loyal lords* may our 
forces on land and at sea be raised at once, 
and let us face destiny with the pride and 
honor that is ours! Sail to Qeodhar and show 
this miserable lurching the price of his impu 
dence! Then we shall see!" 


Dungeon Master 
Background 

The Barony of Qeodhar, a small isle across 
the northernmost ocean of Alphatia, is not 
responsible for the poisonous winds destroy 
ing the PC's lands. The baron is unaware of 
this occurrence. The culprit is an ancient and 
utterly powerful creature named Alphaks, 
He sent the ultimatum to Norwold, in the 
name of Baron Norlan of Qeodhar, in order 
to make King FxicaU of Norwold believe the 
baron is responsible for the killing fog. 

Alphnks b a chaotic Immortal who plans to 
force Alphatia and Thyatis into a major con 
flict to bring Lheir doom, as well as woe and 
destruction upon the rest of mankind His 
plan h to trick Norwold into attacking 
Qeodhar* a dominion under the fealty of 
Alphatia. An Alphatian intervention against 
Norwold will certainly provoke an involve 
ment of Thyatis, die rival of Alphatia, 

Centuries ago, Alphaks was a despotic 
Alphatian emperor His own subjects betrayed 
him* causing a disastrous revolt that nearly 
destroyed the Alphatian civilization. After 
reaching Immortality he finally returned for 
revenge, Through a gate he opened from the 
plane of earth, he created a mountain in the 
Alphatian sea. From the top, it appears to be a 
normal volcano spewing forth gray-green 
fumes. These are the Rimes that have spread 
over rhe land However* the mountain contains 
no lava, but rather a two-way vortex to a Plane 
of Death. The fumes are created by the mixing 
of the two alien atmospheres. 

Alphaks' recent arrival on this world has 
caught the attention of two other major 
Immortals* Koryis and Vanya, who have 
already started a quasi-divine challenge over 
the fate of several nations. Though their 
intervention has never been noticed by mor 
tals* they indeed manipulate events to 
achieve their own particular goals. 

The Immortals' Plot 

All three Immortals have specific reasons 
for intervening. They will oppose or support 
the player characters' armada, in order to 
satisfy their spiritual goals and gain power in 
their respective spheres of power. 

They have specific goals to achieve which 
are explained in each section of the adven 
ture. Upon reaching their goals, the Immor 
tals score points that determine the 
dominating Immortal at the end of the 
adventure. 

Koryis* Patron of Peace and Prosperity 

Koryis is a Lawful temporal from the 
sphere of Thought. He opposes wars and vio 


lence, He wants to prevent Alphaks from 
reaching his goals and to maintain peace, He 
first tries to prevent the party from meeting 
Norlan* the Baron of Qeodhar, Alphaks' 
plans are obvious and Koryis wants to avoid a 
long and bloody war. 

Vanya, Patroness of War and Conquerors 

Vanya is a Neutral temporal from the 
sphere of Time. She is solely interested in his 
tory* glory, and heroism. She naturally is on 
the side of the conquerors; whether they arc 
right or wrong does not matter. She tends to 
turn against her followers if they are 
defeated, then support the other side as her 
new champions. In the course of the adven 
ture, she often changes her positions. To bal 
ance the forces of the spheres* she 
alternatively supports Alphaks or Koryis. 

Alphaks. Patron of Chaos and Revenge 

Alphaks is a chaotic temporal from the 
sphere of Death. After he was abandoned on 
another world, he managed to continue hts 
ascension to Immortal icy. Now that his 
immediate needs have been satisfied, he 
decided it is time to seek revenge. 

He plans to provoke a major conflict 
between Alphatia and Thyatis in order to 
destroy his pinch hated descendants, and to 
spread chaos and destruction among the 
entire world. His goal is to trick Norwold into 
invading Qeodhar, as described in the DM's 
Notes. He is aware of the baron's treachery 
and knows this will precipitate a violent con* 
llict between the two empires. 

Background on Qeodhar* Alphatia, and 
Thyatis 

Alphatia is the oldest empire of the world. 
It La located on a massive island off the eastern 
coast of Nomold, The empire built its power 
on a solid foundation of magic* with no less 
than a thousand wizards ruling the empire's 
council. 

Thyatis is much younger than Alphatia. 
This empire has spread rapidly and now 
encompasses several large islands off the 
southern coast of the continent. 

Both empires have been rivals for a long 
time, particularly over the control of 
Norwold dominions. It has no Importance 
which force controls rhe region. Although 
they seek total independence* the local lords 
know that if the two civilizations clash* the 
major battles will be fought on their land, 
spreading death and poverty. Such a war 
must, be avoided at any cost. 

The Baron N orlan of Qeodhar was a minor 
ally of the Alphatian empire* however* his 
plot to marry an imperial princess Failed and 


2 



INTRODUCTION 


DM-Map #1 - SEA OF ALFHATIA 



since then, hr has decided to secretly switch 
camps and swear allegiance to Thineol the 
Brave* emperor of Thy at is, However, Norlan 
does not intend to attack Nonvoid He is 
unaware of Alphaks' mountain and the death 
Fog. 

More background information on the two 
empires and Norwold can be found in adven 
ture CM 1, Tcstofihe Warlords. 

Raising a Fleet 

King Em ail of Norwold decided to attack 
Qeodhar and ordered troops and fleets to 
assemble. The player characters are sum 
moned to the Royal Court of Norwold, in the 
citadel of Alpha. They are to join the fleet, 
either as heroes or as commanders, and sail to 
the Barony of Qeodhar. Their mission fa to 
invade the barony and bring Norlan back to 
Norwold, dead or alive. Inform the players of 
the king's suspicions about Norlan s motives 
and the councils fears of war with either 
Thyatis or Alphatia, If the mission is success* 
ful, the party and NFC commanders (if any) 
are promised a generous monetary reward as 
wdl as some nobility concessions. This is up 
to the DM, according to the campaign. 

Once a war fleet is raised and the PCs fully 
prepare for war, go to Ghapter 1 and start the 
adventure. 

If the adventure is to be part of a cam 
paign* player characters could already be 
rulers of dominions. They are welcome to use 
their characters 1 land and naval forces, how 
ever, make sure the players' fleets are of suf 
ficient strengths for this adventure. Since this 
expedition takes (game) months, if not years, 
to complete, expect casualties and attrition. 
Therefore, the following minimums are 
advised from the beginning; 

Army: at least 4,000 men able to fight (troop 
class * fair or better, for a total of 8,000 
levels or HD of creatures). 

Fleet; any fleet able to transport the army 
(and mounts if any), Galleys equipped 
with ramming devices and artillery' are 
desirable. 

If the party is low-level or has few in fleets 
and armies, feel free to use prerolled charac 
ters as NPCs, or some of the fleets suggested 
in the Prerolled Characters section, to sup 
plement the party's forces. 

If the PCs have no fleet ai all, they may be 
appointed commanders of the preroUed fleet, 
or act as heroes, with no military authority 
Assign one squadron to each player character 
that chooses to be a commander. Appoint 
extra players as deputy commanders. The 


commanders may gather on a flag ship. 

Once the party's fleet leaves its port, the 
fleets cannot be added to or modified 
Destroyed ships that legitimately belong to a 
PC may not be replaced by a prerolled fleet 
once the adventure has started, 

Prerolled Fleets: Fleet l is a multipurpose 
force. Fleet 2 is a major task force which pri 
mary use is offensive. It should be supported 
by a convoy containing supplies For the troop 
if the fleet leaves for a long campaign Fleet 3 
is a less disciplined invasion force. However, 
it can be used independently on land or at 
sea. since the crew can act either as sailors or 
fighting troops. Fleet 4 is a convoy rype, with 
less offensive or defensive power, but more 


@u. 

Ocean/Sea 

150 mites r *. | 

1 * '¦! Mountain Pass 

GD City 

cargo capacity and speed. Il transports either 
troops, mounts, supplies, weapons, pris 
oners, or treasure. 

Monster and Random 
Encounter Tables 

Whenever a specific creature is mentioned 
in the adventure, refer to the tables appearing 
on the inside of the adventure cover. Random 
Encounters are also located on the outside 
cover. Each column on this table corresponds 
to a chapter of the adventure. The chances 
and frequencies of Random Encounters are 
explained at the beginning of each section. 


3 






INTRODUCTION 


The Sea Machine 

Many naval batiks may occur during this adven 
ture, Run them according to the War Machine 
rules* but with the following modifications: 

A fleet is composed of ship&, sailors, rowers, and 
marine troops* The nok of the ships, aside ftom 
being a transport, is to carry artillery, or devices able 
to sink other ships. Sailors do not normally fight, 
except 10 defend their vessd against boarding; as far 
as this adventure is concerned, rowers never fight 
(unless the)- are seamen). Marines board and seize 
enemy ships, or disembark to attack land objectives. 

Different battle ratings should be determined 
to evaluate the full power of ships and their 
troops. The following steps are suggested to get 
an acceptable result. 

Step 1: Determine the marines' Battle Rat 
ing (BR) in each force 

Step 2: Determine the sailors' Basic Force 
Rating (BFR) t ignoring Equipment and Special 
Tfoop Factors. Ignore rowers, unless they arc 
not needed to control the ship and able to fight. 
Determine the total Hull Points (HP) of each 
type of ship in the fleets, 

Step 3: Determine the ships' BR, starting 
from the sailors BFR (see step 2). Use the modifier* 
below. Each time a condition applies, add one 
tenth of the original BFR as a bonus. 

Galleys: 

a. if 20% of fleet's total Hull Points are gal 
leys 

b. if 50% of fleet's total HP are galleys 

c. if B0% of fleet's total HP are galleys 

Artillery: 

d. if 20 % of vessels have artillery 

e. if 50% of vessels have artillery 

Ramming Device: 

f. if 20 % of vessels have a ramming or crush 
ing device 

g. if 50% of vessels have a ramming or crush 
ing device 

Magical: 

fo if 1% of fleet's total Hull Points are magi 
cally enchanted 

i. if 20% of fleet's total HP are magically 
enchanted 

j* if 100% of fleet's total HP arc magically 
enchanted 
Flying: 

k. ifl % of fleet's total HP can maneuver in a 
3-dimensional space' 

L if 20% of fleet's total HP can maneuver in a 
3-dimensional space 1 

m, if 100% of fleet's total HP can maneuver 
in a 3-dimensional space* 

( 1 ) Applies to fleets able to fly, move underwater, 
or maneuver in another plane. 

Speed: 

n. if the fleet has an average speed of 150 ft/ 
round 

0 . if the fleet has an average speed of 300 ft/ 
round 


p, rowers are seamen (not slaves, or con 
demned prisoners) 

Penalty (reduce BFR instead, if): 

q. rowers' are less than 1/2 their original 
numbers 

r sailors* are less than 1/2 their original 
numbers 

(*) Cannot use rowers if reduced to less than 1/4 
their original numbers. A ship cannot use its 
sails if sailors are reduced to less than I /4 of their 
numbers. 

Step 4: Make an average of both BRs (by add 
ing both and dividing by two). The total indi 
cates the final FLEET BR. Then determine 
separate combat modifiers for the fighting 
troops and the fleet. 

For troops: base the ratio ori die marines' total 
HD or levels rather than the number of creatures. 

For the ships/sailors, determine the ratio from 
the total number of HP involved in each force 
(the sailors/rowers arc then considered as part of 
the ship). 

Make an average of both combat modifiers 
(as above) and add it to the fleet/troop BR 
Resolve the combat with normal War Machine 
rules, using instead the table bdow. 


Naval Combat 

Result Table 


Ship 

Extra 


Difference 

Damage 

Casualties 

Fatigue 


W:L 

W:L 

W:L 

1-8 

0:5% 

- 

N:N 

9-15 

0:10% 

- 

N:N 

16-24 

5%; 15% 

0:10% 

N:M 

25-30 

5%:20% 

0:20% 

N:M 

31-38 

5%:25% 

t/2X;20% 

M:S 

39-50 

10 % :30 % 

1/2X:30% 

M:S 

51-63 

10%:35% 

X.40% 

N:NF 

64-80 

I5%:40% 

Q;30% 

N:NF 

81-90 

15%: 50% 

X:50% 

N:MF 

91-100 

20%:60% 

X:60% 

M:MF 

101-120 

20% ;7G% 

1/2X:50% 

MtSF 

121*150 

25%:80% 

0:30% 

N;SF 

151 + 

25%:9G% 

1/2X:70% 

N:$U 


W: Winner, L; Loser 

% = The percent casualties, in HP for Ships, in 
HD or levels for creatures. 

X, 1/2X * the winner suffers the same amount 
or 1/2 the loser's casualties (in HD or levels), 
N = The force h not fatigued. 

M = The force is moderately fatigued. 

S = The force is seriously fatigued. 

P' s The force flees to its original port . 

U " Remaining ships surrender to winner 

How to Use the Chart 

Step 5: Determine the damage the ships 
receive (Ship Damage) Force A chooses what 
types of ships are affected in fleet B, up to the total 
of damaged HP Ship Damage may be equally 
divided among different types of ships, Fleet B 
chooses which specific ships within the given types 


are affected in its own force. Repeat procedure if 
fleet A has Ship Damage as well. Unallocated H till 
Points of damage, are ignored. For purposes of 
combat t damaged ships are considered lost with 
their passenger*, 

Step 6t The winner captures up to 1/4 of the 
opponent's lost ships; their passengers take 50% 
casualties and surrender, lb keep a seized ship, 
the winner must dispatch a minimum of 12 sail 
ors and/or marines to maintain order on board, 
Otherwise* the winner must either free or 
destroy the captured ship. 

Step 7: Determine Extra Casualties for the 
troops (marines, sailors, rowers) on undamaged 
ships, Extra Casualties are evenly applied to each 
type of troop T rounded down. 

Step 8: Determine Fatigue effects on 
marines, sailors, and rowers. TWo consecutive 
"M" results arc equivalent to a "Seriously 
Fatigued 1 ' status. An "S" result for a fleet 
halves the galleys 1 oar speed. 

The losing force always withdraws. No winner 
should ever suffer more than twice the loser's 
destroyed HP Seized ships are not considered 
damaged . Ignore excess HP of damage. 

Likewise, the loser should never suffer more 
than 10 times the winner's HP of damage This 
is to limit the effects of a suicidal attack from a 
small Elite force. 

Recovering Losses 

The winning force (or one remaining in the 
area after battle) may recover up to 1/3 its dam 
aged HP or troop casualties (wounded, uncon 
scious, or disorganized troops, men at sea). 
Recovery' of ships is determined in HP rather 
than in number of ships. 

Recovered ships are treated as |fl Hull-Point 
wrecks (out-of-combat) until repaired in pern. 
Those ships IBM be the type of vessels sunk during 
battle. ff the amount of recoverable HP is insuffi 
cient to allow one ship to be salvaged (at full HP 
strength)* then the ship cannot be recovered. 

The characters have a chance to hire some pris 
oners into their own fleet. For each group of SO 
prisoners of Chaotic or Neutral alignment (other 
than elite troops or monster types), roll ld20, and 
apply the proposing character^ Charisma bonus/ 
penalty With a modified score of IB or higher* the 
group of prisoners joins die party's ranks. Other 
wise, the part) may freely use them as slave rowers 
in their galleys. 

Ex-prisoners have a 60% chance of deserting in 
any pon However, after three months aboard, 
treat the ex-pnsoners as regular sailors/troops. It is 
normally not advised to have ships solely manned 
by recent ex-prisoners. 

.Any sail ship can contain twice as many pris 
oners as a normal shipload of marines, ff desired, 
any ship may contain 5-10 extra prisoners in their 
bilge. Allow the player characters to hire merce 
nary troops and sailors in friendly ports to make up 
for their troop casualties. 


4 



Chapter 1: INTO THE MAELSTROM 


Encounter Setting 

The party's fleet leaves one of the ports In 
Norwold, sailing northeast. The sky is over* 
cast and a moderate breeze blows from the 
east. A day after their departure, the gray fog 
dissipates as the winds increase. If the party 
returns to their port, the fog rises again, until 
the fleet sets sail again to invade Farend* the 
major city of Qeodhar, 

For random encounters, use the first 
column of the Random Encounters table on 
the inside of cover. Such encounters should 
occur once per day when the time seems 
appropriate. Avoid them if the party's fleet 
has already taken heavy damages. 

This section functions as a programmed 
adventure. Based on what the party 1 manages to 
do, a differen t sequence of encounters may occur. 
After each encounter, write down the points allo 
cated to the winning immortal. When die fleet 
finally enters the maelstrom, read the Aftermath 
section at the end of this chapter. 

Immortals' Goals 

Koryis: hastily attempts to prevent contact 
between the party's fleet and lHc Baron, since 
that would increase the chances For war, 
Koryis cannot affect Alphaks' volcano, but 
hopes to discourage him by causing the fleet 
to return to its original port. 

Vanya: expects the party to conquer the 
barony of Qeodhar. For the rime being, 
Koryis is her main opponent, 

Aiphaka: his goal is to cause the party to 
meet the Baron. When the party is at sea, 
AJphaks closes the portal, ending the fumes 
so his island cannot be discovered. 

Encounter Key 

The following encounter must be played 
first, anytime the armada leaves Norwold. 
Read the text below to the players: 

1* The Heralds of Peace 


The low sun of northern summer glistens on 
the crest of the waves, between Large ice- 
floes. As the ships ^ail by, occasional com* 
mumries of seals basking on the ice dive into 
the frigid green water TTie brkk* cold wind 
blows swirls of snow off huge icebergs. The 
moun tains of ice tower majestically over the 
armada. 

Suddenly, three huge white lizard-Iike 
creatures rise from behind the icc pack, 
roaring like a thousand thundere. Awe and 
absolute terror spread among the men. 


The creatures are ancient and huge dragons. 
Koryis has magically enchanted them to inspire 
absolute panic in anything with 5 HD/levels or 
less. If the party is very powerful, give the 
dragons a 75% Anci*Magic resistance. The 
dragons' orders are to stop the fleet and cause it 
to rum back to its port. 

Seeing the dragons, all Lhc ships with no 
PCs on board are 80% likely to sail back 
home (roll percentile dice for each group of 5 
ships). The others remain under the orders of 
their commanders. As long as the three 
dragons are there, the PCs do not succeed in 
rallying the fugitives. On board the PCs' 
ships, the crew attempts to abandon the ships 
(roll 1 -2 on IdJ 0) or run into the cargo hold to 
shamelessly hide in barrels or crates (roll 3-6 
on IdlO), or remain at their fighting quar 
ters. Make one such check for each group of 
20 men on board the PCs' ships. 

During the confusion, the PCs may disem 
bark on the icebergs or remain on their ships. 
While the storm is in effect, no spell-casting is 
possible because of the rolling and pitching of 
the ships. PCs may flee, attack, or talk to the 
dragons. If the party persists in sailing past 
them with their remaining ships, the dragons 
start flapping their wings over the water to cre 
ate an artificial storm. Then each dragon uses 
its breath weapon against a ship under the rain 
to cover it with ice and frost (PCs take only half 
damage from this form of attack). Frozen ships 
form ice floes and are immobilized; the others 
are slowed to 1/4 their speed if they sail toward 
any dragon. The strong winds have a 10% 
chance per round of causing ld4 ships to collide 
with icebergs, inflicting 5d2Q HP of damage. 
They do not fly away until they or the charac 
ters are defeated, 

If the party attempts to parley or surrender 
during the storm, the dragons stop their 
attack (if attacking) and land on icebergs. 
They do not indicate who sent them, hut 
instead, reveal the following: 


"This mighty fleet must return to its pon 
at once and wait until the wrath of the 
gods is appeased. The force of arms will 
not save your tormented land, but instead 
precipitates an even worse fate. If the 
rulers care at all for their people, they 
must obey the ultimatum, and Justice will 
take its course in the end.' T 


The dragons then wait until the fleet 
returns to its port, or attack a* described 
above if the fleet tries co sail past them. They 
ignore further questions. 

The fleeing ships stop an hour after they 
left the dragon's area, waiting For the PCs to 


return. If after 24 hours the PCs hasten "t 
returned, the ships then set sail to their port 

If the party returns home, the King abruptly 
refuses the dragons' iihcmative, Once again, 
the fog rises over the land, spreading death and 
panic. The council sends the fleet back, after 
greatly humiliating the party. 

If the PCs are the major rulers of Norwold t 
they may abdicate now, in which case noth 
ing happens. Baron Norlasi had nothing to do 
with this situation and probably believes that 
Norwold r s letter of abdication is a grotesque 
farce from one of his younger nobles in 
Farend. But the fog in Norwold gets thicker 
and deadlier every day Magic may be used to 
decide what must be done, and all indications 
are that the fleet must sail again. 

At any time the fleet returns to the icebergs, 
the dragons reappear and attempt to cause the 
fleet to retreat again. If the PCs attempt to 
bypass the dragon's area (ai least 150 miles 
away from the previous encounter), run 
encounter 3, A Sudden Gale, If the dragons are 
defeated or the party sailed past them, run 
encounter 2, Meeting the Baron, 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If encounter 2 is the next encounter, Vanya 
scores 5 points. 

If encounter 3 is the next encounter* 
Alphaks scores 3 points. 

If the ruling lords attempted to abdicate, 
Koryis scores 3 points, 

2* Meeting the Baron 

Choose one of the party's squadron at ran 
dom for this encounter. Only one should have 
time to intervene. 


The night is silent, regularly interrupted 
by the ships' bows cutting through the 
swells. The lanterns of the fleet slowly 
wink in the night fog. 

As the watch fa about to change, ships arc 
sighted to die starboard, the sails full. You 
can barely make out the arms but they 
appear to be those of Qeodhar on their sails. 


The baron is returning to Farend from Bun 
ds vail. die imperial capital of Alphatia. The 
imperial princess has secretly fled the capital 
with her lover* the Baron Norlan. As sights see 
the party's fleet flying Norwold T s pennants, die 
baron panics, thinking his secret allegiance with 
Thyatis and the presence of the princess have 
been discovered,Hoping to surprise* he imme 
diately orders to break through the other fleet, 
hoping to disorganize it and disappear into the 
night fog. Fleeing is not of benefit* so Norlan 
decides to head for Farend, 


5 






Chapter 1: INTO THE MAELSTROM 



Norlan can be captured only if ail his fleet 
surrenders. Otherwise* his ships have an 
00% chance of disappearing into the fog. If 
this fails, the party's fleet may pursue them. 
The hunt lasts for 1-6 hours. During the 
hum, the party has a 10% chance of catching 
and engaging the remaining ships. 

If No Han has not been caught by the end of 
the hunt, he escapes with the remnants of his 
fleet to Farend. The next encounter should 
then be encounter 5, Clash at Farend. The 
fog dissipates in the morning. 

Norland Merchant Fleet 

10 Small Sail Ships: SO HP each, Artillery 
Troop Class: Good Fleet Class: Good 
Av. BR: U1 Av. Speed: 150'/round 

Total HP: SOO Sailors: 100 
Marines 

250 {500 HD} Men in fleet: 350 
Marines: 50% long bows, AG4. level 2 fighters. 
Troops: Chaoric. 

Ships T load: fine woods, spices, grain, 30 war 
horses and heavy cavalry equipment. 


Cargo value: 12,000 gp. 

Commander: Baron Norlan- officers on 
board, 4th level fighters. 

Norlan, Baron of Qeodhar, Kjavik of Nor- 
xee: F15; AL C; tn 13, Wi 10, Ch 12. 
Personal treasure on board: 5,000 gp P 
sword + 4, chain mail + 3, ring of human 
control. 

Norlan is a brave fighter, however, his 
many years of fealty to Alphatia have 
taught him how to conceal his real motiva 
tions and feelings. He'd rather act cow 
ardly if that would give him an advantage, 
however, he will react violently if 
Mariclla* his sec re L lover, is in danger. 

Maridla, alias Hyldeborg* Princess of 
Alphaiia: Normal Human; AC9; hp 3; 
ALC. 

No personal treasure is on board except a 
medallion proving her identity. 

Mariclla is an attractive but rebellious 
and haughty character She docs not 
reveal her real identity unless the baron's 
life is at stake, or unless she is treated as a 
person of inferior social status. 


If the baron is captured, he tails to die charac 
ters* knees and pretends to beg for merry; 
pleading that "a blind and hopeless love forced 
him to commit [Ms act of treachery- V* 

If the party mentions the ultimatum, 
Norlan immediately realizes the party was 
not after the princess. In this case, he does not 
reveal the real identify of Mariclla, and vehe 
mently denies any involvement with the poi 
son fog and the ultimatum. Norlan claims 
that he has been framed by some jealous heir 
in Farend. After regaining his dignity, he 
demands to be released since the party has no 
reason to imprison him. 

If the baron is executed or imprisoned, run 
encounter 4, The Messenger. 

If Mariella and Norlan are released and 
mercy shown to his men, a conflict is 
avoided. Norlan avoids any further publicity, 
The party's fleets may then set sail to 
Norwold. The next encounter should be 
encounter 6, The Mouth of Oblivion, 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If encounter 4 is next, Alphaks scores 3 
points. 

If encounter 5 is next, Vanya scores 5 
points. 

Ef encounter 6 is next, Koryis scores 8 
points. 

3. A Sudden Gale 


From out of the southeast, masses of low 
threatening black clouds roll over the 
ocean. Men rush about, battering the 
hatches and bracing Lhe equipment. The 
pennants violently flap in the winds as the 
ships rock on the swelling waves. 


Suspecting the party's licet of aborting its 
mission, Alphaks creates a storm in an 
attempt to blow the fleet to (he northeast, 
direedy toward Farend, 

Treat the elements as "Gale or Storm" 
(Expen rules, pp. 43^44). The party's fleet may 
run before the storm, or attempt to break free. 

If the party decides to avoid the storm, a 
control weather or wish spell enables one fleet 
to break free of the high winds without any 
further damage. If the fleet is not divided into 
separate squadrons, then, each spell frees 
approximately 1/4 of the ships. The others 
only have the option of sailing through the 
storm. Treat as described below. 

The party may sail ahead of the gale (or 
wuhin the storm) to reach their destination 
faster. Normal sail ships may do so at no cost, 
but the galleys must use their sails. Galleys 
(1*20%) may be destroyed in the storm and 


6 





Chapter 1* INTO THE MAELSTROM 


considered irrecoverable. The storm rages 
unlit ihe fleets reach Qeodhar. All men on 
board are considered "Seriously Fatigued" 
for Sea Machine purposes* but the fleet 
moves toward Qeodhar at triple normal 
speed. The fleet ends up 50 miles off the 
southwest coast of Qeodhar, 

If all the party's ships break free of the 
storm* run encounter 2, Meeting the Baron. 
For the ships reaching Qeodhar* run 
encounter 5* Clash at Farend. The other 
ships sailing toward Farend without other 
encounters. The fleet at Qeodhar may with 
draw until the rest of their force arrives. 

Victory' Points for Immortals 

If encounter 2 is next* Koryis scores 2 
points. 

If encounter 5 is next, Alphaks scores 3 
points and Vanya scores 5. 

If the fleets are separated* record scores as 
above, adding 3 more to Alphaks r . 

4* The Messenger 


A dark silhouette materializes before the 
bow of your ship. Its face is hidden 
beneath a hood. A low voice rumbles* 
"You have challenged my heralds* and 
now the fate of nations is even more at 
stake, You have one very special passenger 
you must never talk about* for that would 
cause the destruction of your people. For 
now, there is nothing l may do to prevent 
your imminent fate. When the seas bdow 
and the sky turns purple* beware of the 
Maul of the Storm " 

Soon after these last words* the shadow 
disappears and two marines sound the 
alarm at the stem of the ship. 

The figure is an image of Korns. He has 
just warned the party of their descent into the 
maelstrom (see encounter 6). 

As the encounter is played out, MarieJla (and 
the Baron* if still alive) disappears from their 
quarters. They have been taken away by 
Koryis to hide Norwold's involvement in this 
affair All memory of this incident is erased 
from their memories. If alive, the Baron is 
returned to Farend, and Mariella to the impe 
rial court. 

Run encounter 6 next* The Mouth of 
Oblivion. Koryis scores 5 points. If the baron 
is dead* Alphaks scores 2 points. 

5. Clash at Fareod 

When the PCs" ships reach Qeodhar, five 
large galleys leave port in the hex containing 
Farend. They are part of the city defense 


Their strategy' is to engage one of the party's 
fleet before ii can land on the beach. If 
encounter 2 has been played, then Norland 
merchant ships that have escaped their pre 
vious battle join the galleys. 

The other coastal hexes of Qeodhar are not 
defended. If the party decides to attack 
another hex than Farend, they may disembark 
freely and maneuver on land. 

The southern side of Qeodhar (four hexes) 
benefits from a rare micro-climate permitted 
by the proximity of high mountains, a warm 
ocean stream coming from the east* and a pro 
fusion of hot water springs. The northern side 
of Qeodhar is affected by a semi-permanent 
polar climate. 

The city is not fortified, A 1,000-man mili 
tia (Troop class Fair* level 2 fighters* BR 75) 
defends die city* not counting the galleys. See 
encounter 2 for more information on Nurlan, 

Attacking Land Objectives 

Any fleet that does not win an initial attack 
against a land objective must withdraw, its 
surviving troops remaining on board. The 
loser cannot recover troops lust during a failed 
landing* unless the objective is captured later. 
Once the initial attack against a land target 
succeeds* the troops may maneuver normally 
on the isle, If there are no defenders in the hex 
chosen by the attackers* disembarking auto 
matically succeeds. 

Norland Home Fleet 

5 Large Galleys: 110 HP each, Artillery Ram 
Troop Glass: Good Fleet Class: Good 
Av BR: 3 20 Av. Speed: I207rovmd 

Ibtal Hull Points: 550 
Seamen: 950 (1,900 HD) 

Seamen: 50% long bows* AC4* level 2 fight 
ers. Each ship carries 190 seamen* 180 of 
whom are rowing* 10 others acting as sail 
ors. They are all able to fight. 

Troops: Chaotic 

Commander: Baron Nurlan; officers on 
board, level 4 fighters. 

If Norlan is executed or eapiured, play 
encounter 4* The Messenger, If the party fails 
to invade the isle* or if Norlan is released and 
mercy shown to his men* play encounter 6* 
The Mouth of Oblivion. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If encounter 4 is next, Vanya scores 3 

points. 

If Norlan is released, Koryis scores 6 points. 
If the invasion fails* Alphaks scores 3 points. 


6* The Mouth of Oblivion 


Slowly, the fleet comes to a complete hall 
and starts backing up. Crewmen are rush 
ing about the ship and the rowers' drums 
increase their beat. 

The sky has turned purple and a frighten 
ing roar thunders behind you. With horror 
you realize your vessels are dragged toward 
a huger gaping whirlpool, Vbur crews raise all 
sails and row at maximum strength. Finally, 
the ships slowly move out of the colossal cur 
rents. Bursuddenly the sinkhole widens and 
moves behind the ships! 

Already some vessels begin to circle 
around the gigantic maelstrom. In an 
instant, the entire fleet is caught in the swirls 
of dark green water. There is great confusion 
on board. Despite the stunning rumble and 
the cold darkness from the deep of the sea, a 
vision appears at the bottom of the mael 
strom...an opening...night, stars* perhaps 
an escape. But in this moment of terror, 
your shattered minds refuse this insane 
vision * and unconsciousness finally prevails. 


Do not allow the party any other alternative 
when this encounter is played. Send all the 
characters and their forces down into die mael 
strom at the same time, 

Vanya opened a huge gate that actually com 
municates with another part of this galaxy. She 
reserves a more glorious fate for her champions 
in a distant world waiting to be conquered. The 
maelstrom ends this section. Go to Chapter 2, 
None of the immortals gain any points here. 

Aftermath 

If Koryis scores the most points in this section* 
he heals 50-100% of the marines* and sailors' 
casualties. The men are found dinging to debris, 
drifting neat the parry's ships, in the other workl. 
They do not remember what happened. 

If Vanya scores the most points* a brave char 
acter in the party, preferably a fighter of Neutral 
alignment* is granted a rod of victory. While the 
PC is unconscious in the maelstrom* the vision 
of a beautiful female warrior appears in a dream 
and says, "Thy have done well my hero! Take 
thine reward* and to further my might, bestow 
its powers in the name of Vanya!" Upon 
waking* the character realizes the nod is solidly 
strapped to his belt. 

If Alphaks scores the most points* the party 
does not gain anything and the two other 
Immortals reduce their scores by 5 points each. 

In case of a tie, nothing happens. Save the 
final total each immortal scored; they are used 
at the end of the adventure for determining the 
Immortal that rewards the party and perhaps 
open a way to Immortality. 


7 






Chapter 2: FLIGHT TO THE STAR KINGDOMS 


Encounter Setting 

Use DM Map b for this chapter. The party 
has just crossed Vanya's maelstrom into this 
area of the galaxy. Once the party finishes 
encounter 1 , The Ice Storm, the fleet appears 
to be floating in the sky, dark and dotted with 
stars. There is no sea to sail on, nor land 
below. In tact, they float in the space between 
planets but the atmosphere is breathable. 

The party has entered the ancient empire 
the AJphatians abandoned. Many centuries 
ago, the Aiphanans ruled a planet in this 
area. However, they were divided into two 
factions affiliated to a specific school of 
magic. One svaa based on the Element of Air* 
the other, ruled by the Paragon Alphaks, 
worshipped the Element of Fire. The fol 
lowers of Air once opened a gate to fill this 
area of space with air It is now enclosed in a 
huge bubble of breathable air. 

Humiliated. Alphaks started a w-ar against 
the followers of Air. The schools of Fire and 
Air waged a crippling war that ravaged their 
entire world. About to be destroyed by 
Alphaks' fire minions, the school of Air fled 
the planet shortly before unleashing their last 
weapon, a spell of utter power dial disinte 
grated the planet. It was thought Alphaks 
died, but he survived and exiled himself in 
another and even more distant region. 
Swearing he would one day revenge, he 
betrayed his normal inclination toward the 
Sphere of Energy and attained immortality 
within the Sphere of Death As for the surviv 
ing Aiphatians, some of them colonized 
smaller worlds in the area, and the Followers 
of Air settled on a quiet and remote world 
surrounded with an air atmosphere. It is the 
PCs' world where once again ihc AJphatians 
built their great empire of magic. The most 
powerful secrets of arcane have been lost, but 
AJphatia remains a fearsome realm by 
human standards. 

The party must explore this part of the sky 
to find their way home. In the process, they 
discover information on the three Immortals 
and Alphaks T goals. Play the various 
encounters in the order given, or as 
instructed at the end of each encounter Once 
per day check for a random encounter, or 
when it is the most appropriate. An 
encounter occurs on a score of T6 on Id 10, 
Use the second column of the Random 
Encounters table on the inside cover. 

Immortals' Goals 

Any time a temporal reaches a score of 15 
points (or a multiple of 15), he may intervene 
during the party's adventure. Several types 
of interventions are listed at the end of this 


section, Play the intervention when it seems 
most appropriate. 

Koryis: may help the party during this 
adventure if they avoid violence and destruc 
tion (sec interventions). Otherwise, he 
ignores the PCs. 

Vanya: expects the party to prove their 
courage at every opportunity If this is the 
c ase, she might help the party in a different 
way (see interventions). 

Alphaks: is worried about the party's pres 
ence in his ex-empire. He desires only their 
quickest and most violent destruction. He 
opposes Vanya's plan to unveil Alphatia's ori 
gins (and his) to the party {see interventions). 

Properties of This World 

There is no particular gravity in the void, 
except one generated by large masses. Any 
non-living body of 20,000 cn of weight or 
mart- generates an attraction. Anything else 
that is not subjected to a gravity floats in the 
dark void, drifting away in the direction of 
die solar winds. 

For Example: Passengers on a ship are 
attracted to the deck. Someone jumping from 
the top of the mast would crash cm the deck 
below. A ship that lost all its Hull Points 
because of damage collapses from its own grav 
ity (wrecks may be recovered) The ships are 
attracted to larger celestial bodies, such as plan 
ets or asteroids, unless they use some kind of 
propulsion (special or magical oars, pulling 
creatures* sails that catch the solar winds, 
magic). A human-size creature cannot "swim" 
away from another large object's gravity. 

Ships that are not adapted to this environ 
ment cannot willingly gain or lose altitude, 
except as a result of attraction. Such adapta 
tion would include large wings or similar hor 
izontal stabilizers. A pulling creature can 
easily help change the altitude of a ship (rocs, 
dragons). Artificial wings are easily made 
from wooden beams and sails. A strong vrind 
or pulling creatures enable ships to propel a 
ship from the surface of an attracting world. 

If the party maneuvers at Jess than 10,000 
feet from a large celestial body, the ships start 
drifting toward its surface. Magic, strong 
winds, or pulling creatures are sufficient to 
main course immediately to avoid a catastro' 
pbe. If an unadapted fleet descends to 5,000 
feet of altitude, then the course cannot be 
reversed and it crashes on the attracting sur 
face in 2d4 turns. Any creature less than 6 
HD levels automatically dies in the catastro 
phe and all the ships are destroyed. More 
powerful creatures must make a successful 
Saving Throw vs, Breath Weapon at -5 or 
die. Survivors remain with Id 10 hp left. 


if the players do not discover how to con 
trol their ship's course, then they should find 
various methods in encounter 2, Paradise 
Island. 

Encounter Key 

1. The Ice Storm 

When you regain consciousness, the 
sound of a storm replaces the inhuman 
roar of the maelstrom. The ships are still 
spinning, however, a violent storm of ice t 
snow and sleet prevents anyone from 
doing anything more than finding cover. 


All the water drained through the mael 
strom froze in the cold air of the void. It cre 
ates an ice storm over the entire fleet- Have 
the players roll a Saving Throw vs. Spells for 
each of their ships. The ships save as a fighter 
of the passenger's average level. For each sav 
ing throw failed, the ships suffer 30 % casual 
ties because of the storm. Otherwise, the 
losses are 10%, 

The storm lasts for 20 minutes before it dis 
sipates. Only then do the passengers realize 
they have entered another world. 


The light has gone* So has the ocean's 
madness. Only a frightening silent void 
remains above and below the ships, In the 
dark, some distant stars twinkle, each of a 
different color and bme as a fall moon of 
your homeland. The air is cold and some 
strange wind flutters through the tom 
remains of the sails. 


All the ships had their sails ripped by the 
storm, and the galleys are unable to move 
with their regular oars. The fleet drifts with 
the wind and is stranded on the site of 
encounter 2* Paradise Island. 

2. Paradise Island 


In the way of the drifting fleet, a large cir 
cular platform is sighted, floating motion 
less. Strangely, a glowing sphere of light 
surrounds the entire platform. It appears 
to be an island covered with a thick forest, 
and surrounded by several miles of sea. At 
the outer rim of the platform, it seems like 
waves are breaking on an invisible beach. 


The first galleys to reach the waves realize 
it is possible to safely navigate on die sea and 
tow the other vessels in the direction of the 
isle. The platform has its own blue sky which 
obscures the rest of the void. The air near 


8 





Chapter 2: FLIGHT TO THE STAR KINGDOMS 


the island in warmer and the smell of the for 
est more evident. 


Hundreds of natives wearing loin cloths, 
colorful robes, feathers, and flowers run 
down the beach, waving at the fleer. Mus 
cular natives push dozens oflarge, winged 
canoes into the water and already, men 
paddle toward the ships, keeping strange 
feathered oars above the water, \bunger 
men and women dive into the blue water 
and swim behind the canoes. 

Large baskets of fruit and heaps of mul 
ticolored flowers fill the canoes. None of 
the natives bear any visible weapons. 


The natives greeting the armada are 
friendly and peaceful. There are 1,500 of 
them on the isle. They throw flowers and gar 
lands on the ships, offering baskets of fruits 
(zzonga). 

Though the natives are friendly and have 
no hostile intentions, they do represent a dan 
ger for the crews. They are zzonga-caters. 
The zzonga, a large strawberry-like fruit, 
robs them of ambition to do anything more 
demanding than an occasional feast. After 
eating zzongas, one forgets all about his 
friends, and becomes content to remain the 
rest of his days living an easy life and nibbling 
zzongas. 

Despite eventual contrary- orders, 5d20 
crews sneak away from their ships to enjoy 
the pleasures of the isle. They do not return. 
After investigating, the PCs realize what hap 
pened to them. PCs eating the plant must 
make a successful Saving Throw vs. Poison at 
-6 or suffer the same effects. 

If the characters gave immediate permis 
sion to disembark, 63-90% (3d 10 + 60) of the 
sailors, seamen, and marines also become 
intoxicated. The party must then order the 
rest of the crew to return to the ships and pre 
pare rescue squads to bring the victims back 
on board. All the victims must be tied up or 
locked up. Otherwise they try to return to the 
island The rescue parties are able to retrieve 
the following percentage of losses: roll t dfi; I 
- 50%, 2-4 " 75%, 5-6 - 10Q%.Add 5% 
to the result, per conscious PC in the rescue 
parties. The remaining victims hide in the 
forest and cannot be found. If the percentage 
is greater than 100%. the extra natives are 
prisoners. 

The intoxication lasts ld4 days if the vie* 
tims are prevented from eating zzonga fruits. 
However, even tf the PCs search all the ves 
sels themselves, some hidden loads of zzonga 
may remain on board. Occasionally during 
the course of the adventure, a ship or two 


may start drifting and not answer orders, 
their crew intoxicated by the infamous plant. 
Some undisciplined crew may even grow 
some on board and smuggle them throughout 
the adventure. 

By observing the natives* canoes, the party 
can understand how to modify their ships so 
they are easily controllable in the void. The 
long oars of their canoes end with large vege 
tal feathers and their sails are made of a 
strong wehlike fabric. The feathers grow on 
trees in the local jungle and the webs are 
woven by colonics of small harmless spiders. 
The party discovers those items if they 
explore the land. They are needed to outfit 
the fleet so it can leave the island. 

If the rest of the island is explored, the 
party finds large statues on the side of a bare 
hill, representing tall slim men wearing long 
robes or armor. Some designs can be found 
on their rings or shields, representing several 
old Alpha ban families* armorial bearings. 

When the survivors of ancient Alphatia 
fled, they stopped for a time on this island 
and left the statues as a monument of their 
passing, and as a navigational sign. The 
natives of the island are descendants of the 
prisoners the Alphatiam abandoned on the 
island before they left. 

The characters can gain no other informa 
tion on this island since the occupants are 
oblivious to whatever is happening in their 
pan of the sky. When the fleet leaves, the 
wind blows in the direcdon of encounter 3 T 
The Isle of the Eye. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the pany attacks the natives, Vanya 
scores 5 points. 

If the party loses more than 30% of their 
men, Alphaks scores 5 points, 

If none of the above is applicable, Kory is 
scores 5 points. 

3. The Isle of the Eye 


A huge rock appears in your way sur 
rounded by a sphere of light. It seems like 
a dry, rocky asteroid, with some vegeta 
tion in severaJ valleys on the top, A multi 
tude of jagged stones ring the rock, 
leaving a narrow 200-foot long passage to 
a small creek. 


The fleet can safely approach the rock only 
by flying between the s eries of jagged stones 
floating near the rock. Moving at half speed, 
ld6 ships take IdlO HP of damage before 
they reach the creek. Triple the number of 
damaged ships if moving at full speed. LJp to 


20 ships may stay there, while the rest of the 
fleet anchors at larger immobile rocks, 800 
feet away from the outer ring. A rocky ledge 
leading to the top can be reached from the 
creek of the island. 

Before disembarking, the officers on board 
remind the PCs of the risk of sending regular 
troops ahead in unknown lands. The party's 
powers would be more suited to this type of 
action if disastrous consequences such as on 
the Paradise Island are to be avoided. If 
forced to go, the marines show an obvious 
discontent. None of them return. If the party 
decides to go, a 20-man escort follows them. 

After a few hours of search, the party Finds 
the mouth of a huge cavern. Read the follow 
ing to the players. 


The cave contains a monster-sized bed, 
covered with mounds of straw. Every 
thing in the cave has gigantic proportions; 
forks and knives as big as an arm, a chest 
as big as a skiff. At the opposite side of the 
cave is an empty wooden corral. As you 
observe the area, a flock of huge sheep 
enters the cave, each of them taller than a 
normal man. Behind them, you can hear 
heavy breathing getting closer. 


The chest contains millions of copper 
pieces bearing the face of Alphaks and the 
words "Alphatia Above All - Emperor 
Alphaks i " 

l*hc cavern belongs to a giant beholder. A 
few moments after the party entered the cave, 
the creature arrives with a large flock of sheep. 
It enters and uses its telekinesis powers to roll a 
monumental stone slab in front of the exit. The 
stone weighs five tons* and b 10 feet diick. 

The creature is a 10-foot high gargantuan 
beholder. The range of all its magical powers 
is multiplied by 5. The beholder can lift up to 
50,000 cn with its telekinesis^ and cause 2d6 
Hull Points of damage with its disintegrating 
stalk, if attacking ships. Otherwise, its other 
powers are unchanged. The sheep are harm 
less* but arc of a gargantuan size as well- The 
party has few places to hide, so the creature 
quickly discovers them. If a marine escort is 
present, the creature raises a soldier and cals 
him on the spot. 

The creature then attacks the rest of the 
party, attempting to push each of them into a 
20-foot-deep pit. Its telekinesis may lift 2d6 
characters per round and drop them into the 
pit. Once all the characters are trapped, the 
beholder covers the pit with a large stone. 
Every day* at sunrise, the beholder opens the 
pit and pulls out )d4 men, choosing marines 
or NPCs first for breakfast. The beholder is 


9 






J&m mi 





Chapter 2: FLIGHT TO THE STAR KINGDOMS 


gone for the rest of the day. tf the party finds a 
way of out, they are able Uj return to their 
ships. Otherwise, the party may attack the 
beholder every time it opens the pit. If the 
creature feels it is losing the fight, it attempts 
to flee, removing the stone at the entrance. 
The party is then free to return to Lhe ships. 

If the party has not slain the creature, it 
comes to the ledge with three more giant 
beholders, and attacks the ships at the when the 
party starts to sail awav from the creek. They do 
not pursue the party beyond the ring of rocks. 

If (he party escapes, a beholder casts a 
curse spell on the fleet* bestowing upon it the 
hatTed of its creator, Alphaks. The player 
characters should hear the contents of the 
curse and the name *' Alphaks" 

If all the party's ships in the creek are 
destroyed, the beholders leave, ignoring any 
survivors. The bulk of the fleet then sends 
skiffs to retrieve them. When the fleet sets 
sail, the winds blow to the site of encounter 
4a, The Keeper of the Sky Winds. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

[f the party attacked and defeated the first 
beholden Vanya scores 5 points. 

If the party escapes without losing ships, 
Koryis scores 5 points. 

If the party lost ships in the creek, and the 
beholders have not been defeated, Alphaks 
scores 5 points. 

4a* The Keeper of the Sky Winds 


Across from your path lies a large silver 
cloud blocking the way, hundreds of miles 
tall and wide. On the top of the cloud 
stands a large glowing tower. 


The silver cloud is the land of the Keeper of 
the Sky Winds. He is an immortal lawful crea 
ture whose sole function is to control the winds 
of this pan of the sky. He is immune to any 
physical or magical attacks from the party. 

'fhe characters have no problem reaching 
the cloud, anchoring their vessels nearby* and 
setting foot on the silver swirls. The consist 
ency of the cloud is soft, but it is possible to 
walk on its surface. 

When the party reaches the base of the 
lower* read the following to the players* 


A brass door at the bottom of the tower 
opens and a man dressed in long white 
robes appears. After studying the party 
far a few moments, he raises one hand and 
says* "Welcome to my kingdom, noble 
travelers. I am King Leosus* the master of 


these clouds. You have sailed for many 
days and you have seen many places. 
Honor my abode and rest on my world 
until the w inds are favorable to your desti 
nation " 


The keeper, King Leosus, gladly welcomes 
the party's men on his cloud. He offers food and 
shelter for as long as the party desires to remain 
on the cloud. King Leosus has the power to 
shape the clouds into large caves, beds, and 
tables. He befriends the party and tries to help 
them. He knows some information he reveals 
only if the party asks specific quesdons. 

1 He knows that a great empire once ruled 
this area, but since then* they have destroyed 
themselves, 

2. He remembers that Alphaks was their 
last emperor, and that his people betrayed 
him. He was utterly evil. Leosus does not 
know anything about the beholders. They 
did not exist at the time of the Alphatian 
empire, 

3. He belongs ia the Sphere of Air* and 
Koryis is his master. Koryis currently is 
involved in some quarrel with ocher immor 
tals over the fate of another world. If the char 
acters describe "The Messenger" (sec 
encounter 4 in Chapter I ) P he reveals that this 
is one of Koryis' many forms. 

4. There is a place across the void which 
has the ability to send lost voyagers back to 
their homeland. It seems to be like a dense 
fog* 

If the party asks for directions to reach this 
fag, he gives them a large leather bag. It con- 
tains all the foul winds that would prevent the 
party From returning home. Thus, the wind 
now blowing ia the one that finally pushes the 
fleet to this far place* Leosus explains thai 
they are in a distant region, far away from 
their home world if they ask* They have been 
trapped here by the whim of Koryis' ene 
mies* Leosus knows nothing more, 

If King Leosus is ever attacked, he disap 
pears as well as doc* his tower, only to return 
when the party has left . 

Along the way* the party may stop in vari 
ous lands to replenish their food supplies. 
Read encounter 4b, and run encounter 3 
next. The Gentle Giantess. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the party avoids the cloud, Alphaks 
scores 5 points* 

If the party gets the bag of air, Koryis 
scares 5 points. 

Vanya scores nothing in this encounter. 


4b. Returning to the Keeper of the 
Winds 

Whenever the bag of air is opened, which 
may occur upon Alphaks' intervention* or 
because of a crew under ihe influence of 
£zonga* all the foul winds escape and blow the 
fleet back directly to this encounter. After 
understanding the causes that forced the bag 
opened, King Leosus realizes that the party is 
up againai powerful immortals. Not wishing 
to get involved, he refuses to do anything 
more for the party and asks them to leave the 
cloud at once King Leosus disappears with 
his tower* and the clouds slowly dissipate. 

From this paint, the winds blow the fleet to 
any encounter the characters avoided. If 
none were missed, the fleet is blown to 
encounter 10, The Great Sea in The Sky. 

5- The Gentle Giantess 


Several hundred feet ahead, a large flat 
cloud drifts in the sky. Sitting on it, her 
legs swaying in the void below, is a giant 
ess, waving at the party's ships. If the 
party gets closer, she calls for help. 


The creature is a female cloud giant. She and 
all her brothers are much larger than their nor 
mal kind so treat them as gargantuan monsters. 

The giantess wears a ring of mind barrier 
that saved her from Alphaks' control (see 
next encounter). She is a sweet* enjoyable 
creature who desires no harm to the party- 
Her name is Kenatha. She was sleeping near 
the shore of her rioudland when the cloud 
broke off and drifted away* When she awoke* 
she found herself alone and lost a long way 
from home. She begs the party to tow her 
back home. Her father is the King of the 
Cloud) and and would certainly reward the 
party if they brought her back She proposes 
to blow some wind into (he party's sails until 
they get to the Gloudland. If the party 
accepts, she gives directions to her home. 

Once there, she invites the party to come 
ashore and meet her father. If the party refuses* 
she seems disappointed, but does not prevent 
(he party from leaving. Play encounter 7 next. 

If the party accepts* they all go to the King's 
palace deeper into the cloud I and. Play 
encounter 6 next. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the party abandoned the giantess on her 
cloud* Alphaks scores 5 points 

If the party tows the giantess to the 
dotidlands and then decides to leave immedi 
ately, Koryis scores 5 points 

If the party decides to follow the giantess to 
her father's palace, Vanya scores 3 poims. 


11 







Chapter 2; FLIGHT TO THE STAJR KINGDOMS 


6, The Palace of the Cloud Giants 


7. The Isle of the Turkeys 


Several hundred yards away from your 
ships, you follow Kenatha as she steps onto a 
huge stairway leading down into the clouds. 
Thunderous voices echo in the hallway 
below, singing and laughing loudly 

Shortly after* you enter a large hall 
where a dozen of Kenatha's mates are 
having a feast. She walks directly to one at 
the center of a long table who is wearing a 
crown. He raises his hands and asks for 
silence. Kenatha introduces the party. 


The king suddenly takes a huge fork and 
tries to spear the fattest looking character. At 
once, the giants rush the party, claiming their 
share of dessert, as Kenatha hopelessly 
attempts to stop them. 

The giants in this encounter are gargan 
tuan cloud giants. They do not listen to 
Kcnatha. their hunger for fresh meat over 
coming their kindness, Their sudden reac 
tion is caused by Alphaks who is trying to 
avenge his beholder sons, Kenatha is not 
affected because of her ring of mind barrier. 
The party must fight their way out or defeat 
the giants, with the help of Kenatha. One dis 
pel magic spcU frees one giant who ignores 
the party but immediately defends Kenatha 
against the other giants. 

If the party is defeated, captured charac 
ters are eaten. The other giants reach the 
ships at the moment the fleet tries to evade. 
Each giant has a dozen huge harpoons they 
hurl toward the ships. Each successful hit 
inflicts 2-40 (2d20) Hull Points of damage 
and kills ld20 normal men on board. As they 
get out of range, the ships may use their artil 
lery against the giants. 

If the party wins, Kenatha. apologizes for 
her kin's bad manners. She grabs a handful of 
treasure from her father's pocket and gives it 
to the party, it contains 10 T OO0 pp, a magic 
sword + 5, a wand of negation, a staff of 
harming> and a large flying carpet She then 
escorts the party back to their ship and bids 
them farewell. Run encounter 7 next. The 
Isle of the Turkeys. 

Soon after leaving, it is noticed that the 
food supplies on board are severely depleted, 
some of it because of negligence from careless 
zzonga-intoxicated crew. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the party defeats die giants, Vanya scores 
5 points. 

If the party flees, abandoning characters 
behind them, Alphaks scores 5 points, 

Koryis scores nothing in this encounter. 


You see the familiar shape of a sky island 
in your path It is very small, perhaps 10 
miles in diameter at most. The sea sur 
rounding the island extends 50 miles from 
the beaches. 


The isle is similar to Paradise Island. It is 
inhabited by a powerful magic-user, Kersy* 
who polymorphs people into animals, espe 
cially turkeys. She lives in a cave concealed 
on the flank of a small mountain. 

If the characters explore the isle, they should 
not find the cavern right away, however, it 
becomes obvious that there are many turkeys 
everywhere on the isle. In the PCs' absence and 
despite eventual orders to remain on board, 
several officers disembark with their crew, To 
avoid agitation on board > they organize lead 
teams to get much-needed food* repair wood, 
and fresh water. Many (5d20) do not come 
back- The PC's are informed of the missing 
men when they return, 

The party may set up a rescue team and 
leave to find the missing men. If Koryis has a 
sufficient score (15 or more), he may inter 
vene now (see interventions at the end of this 
section), as the party crosses the forest near 
the cavern. About an hour from the beach, 
tfiev should discover Kersy's cavern. 


At the entrance of the cavern, sitting on a 
rock, an Incredibly beautiful maiden 
greets your arrival. She stands and 
motions you to follow her in. 


The maiden is Kersy, a temporal in mortal 
Form, She is of Neutral alignment and close 
to the Sphere of Earth. Though her mortal 
form is one of a 30th level magic-user, she has 
special powers she uses when she encounters 
men or humanoid creatures on her domain- 

If they follow her or not, the visitors must roll 
a Saving Throw vs, Spelfs at -10 or be charmed . 
A second roil is then necessary since Kersy uses 
a gaze weapon that polymorphs other creatures. 
Her gaze can affect any number of creatures 
looking at her. If a player states his character is 
not looking at Kersy, he is not affected. Victims 
are usually turned into turkeys, however* she 
may choose another form. During the adven 
ture, Kersy can use any spell described in the 
rules (one per round). 

If anyone threatens Kersy with a weapon, 
she surrenders and promises not 10 harm 
anyone with the PCs, She restores the charac 
ters' original form and offers hospitality to 
the party She says the missing crew arc wan 


dering in the forest as turkeys* and she will 
turn them back into men as soon as the party 
manages to recover them, if she is asked. 

Meanwhile, the rest of the crew has been 
hunting turkey to resupply their ships. In the 
absence of the PCs, they have started a great 
feast. For each hour the PCs are gone* IdlO 
of the missing crew perish as a main course of 
the banquet. The troops may fill the ships 
with extra supplies of turkeys or fruit* repair 
damage, and get some rest. 

The PCs believe they are permitted to stay 
in Kersy's cave for as long as they wish. It is a 
small comfortable abode, 

Kersy (30th level magic-user): AC 9; hp 60; 
MV 40' (120'); AT 1 gaze or spell cast 
ing; D charm + polymorph others* or 
spells; Save MU 30; AL N; St 9, In 18, Wi 
17, Dx 14. Co 14* Ch 19. No magic items 
or weapons. 

If the party stays to lei die crews rest, Kersy 
advises them to sail to the Underworld, where 
they should meet the soul of the andent monk 
Theyraz (or of a missing PC). The soul, wear 
ing a long red, hooded robe* tells the party what 
dangers to avoid before they can return to their 
homeland. Kersy tells the characters to do the 
following once they reach the Shrine of Death 
{encounters 8a,-8d.): 


"Dig a small trench and fill it with liba 
tions of milk, honey and barley meal. 
Bring a young ram and a black ewe to the 
altar. Restrain die other dead spirits from 
having their share of the offering, until the 
proper spirit arrives " 


There is a 50% chance that the Heel may 
have the two animals. If none are available* 
Kersy offers to create them, smiling kindly at 
two marines standing nearby. 

The party may wfliL IdlO days more, until 
a favorable wind blows to the Underworld 
gate. If the party reveals their mission to the 
troops or their officers* the men refuse to go. 
They declare that they will wait one month 
for the party to return on Kersy's island. 
Then they will set sail to the mists King 
Leosus mentioned. However, one small sail 
ship with a few men agrees to go to the 
Underworld with the player characters. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the pany destroys Kersy, Vanya scores 5 
points. 

If the party befriends Kersy, Koryis scores 
5 points. 

If the party lost 40 men or more on this 
island, Alphaks scores 1 point. 


12 







Chapter 2: FLIGHT TO THE STAR KINGDOMS 


If the party leaves bef ore Kersy mentions the 
journey to the underworld, play encounter 11 
next. The Voice of Death, 

8a-d* Journey to the Underworld 
8a* The Black Gate 


Far ahead of your route, an odd black 
spot, so dark it appears in the night, rips 
the sky open. Small electric blue lightning 
surrounds the gap. As you get closer, the 
wind rises, colder, blowing small jstones 
and dust into die darkness. 


The gate is not directly connected to the 
Sphere of Entropy, but to an intermediate plane. 
Hie pam- may safdy enter or exit the gate. 

8b* The Keeper of the Underworld 


Slowly, a black sea appears under the hull 
of your ship as you plunge deeper into this 
world of darkness, About 300 feet in front 
of your ship appears another ship, a black 
longship with its sails taken in and its oars 
motionless. 


The Keeper of the Underworld, a roaring 
demon (see New Monsters), commands the 
longship and a crew of BO shadows. The long- 
ship remains motionless tf the parry sails in its 
direction. If so, the demon says the following: 


"I am the Keeper of the Underworld. 
Leave your ship, for from here, only this 
black vessel can sail to your destination." 


The demon has been instructed to trap the 
party in this plane. The demon lies. It tries to 
convince the PCs to order their ship back to 
the gate. If this happens, it ferries the PCs for 
1 cp each to Shrine of Death and leaves them 
stranded. 

If the party attempts to avoid contact with 
the longship, the demon immediately tries to 
intercept them. Whipping its shadows to 
hurry them up* the longship catches up and 
the demon launches its boarding attack 
against the party and the sailors. The demon 
may use siow spell-like powers to affect the 
crew, and ultimately the PCs during the 
melee Its ship ia magical and can move at 
200 feet per round in this plane, [t is consid 
ered to be AC2 and has 200 HP. 

If the party destroys the demon, the shadows 
disappear in the darkness and do not return. 
The characters can then sail the longship to the 
desired location, and mum safdy to the gate. If 


the party uses the longship beyond the gate, it 
moves only 90'/round (sail speed), 

8c. The Shrine of Death 


Rising out of the dull black water, a small 
island of dark earth appears. It is no more 
than 90 feet in diameter In the middle 
stands an altar in front of a round pit dug 
into the earth. The sides of the pit are cov 
ered with a glistening black, greasy slime. 
Stalks ooze up to the outer rim of the pit, 
and crawl back clown, releasing a nauseat 
ing stench of death and decay. 


If the party arrived with the demon, they 
are stranded on the island and the longship 
sails away, unless the party attacks and 
destroys the demon. 

The pit opens directly to the Sphere of 
Death, which explains why the pit isn't 
Hooded. Anyone touching the slime in the pit 
loses one level of experience. Those entering 
the Sphere of Death are considered dead. 

If the party does what Kersy described, 
various undead creatures appear from the 
pit. All of them attempt to drink from the 
trench unless the party holds them at bay 
with their swords. The creatures do not 
attack the party, but instead, they try to creep 
between the party to reach the blood trench. 
One hp of damage causes an undead to back 
off and hesitate for 2 more rounds. It takes 12 
rounds for one creature to consume the 
trench's contents. If the number of rounds 
plus the number of undead total 6 or more 
(six undeads during 1 round, or one during 6 
rounds, etc.), the meal is spoiled and the 
desired spirit does not appear. 

The arrival of the desired spirit takes 3d4 
rounds during which ldB other creatures 
emerge from the pit. The clerics have their 
normal chances of turning them, however, 
none of the undead can be destroyed this way. 
Timed undead simply return to the pit. 
Determine each creature appearing on the 
table below. 


1 d20 Cream res A ppcaring 


] 

Wight 

2-3 

Wraith 

4-10 

Spectre 

11-13 

Phantom (Apparition) 

14-17 

Haunt (Ghost) 

18-20 

Spirit (Revenant) 


The soul the characters expect appears as a 
Lawful ghost, wearing a long red, hooded robe. 
It immediately drinks the milk and honey. It 
then reveals the following to the party. 


" Hear me now, my friends, for your path 
is difficult and many forces oppose your 
endeavours. 

"Alphaks has became immortal after 
betraying his primary philosophy. He is 
the one who desires the destruction of 
mankind in your homeland. He is the one 
who plots vengeance against his kin. 
Beware of his wrath, for you have drawn 
upon yourselves his eternal hatred for 
offending his son, the giant eye. 

M If you survive his desire for your deaths, 
you may return to Norwold, alone, in a for 
eign ship. Da not harm Vanya's sheep on 
the isle of Tharf. Her revenge would be as 
awesome as AlphaksV* 


The ghost then heads back to the pit. If a 
cleric uses a raise dead fully or equivalent 
spell on the ghost, the undead form is 
destroyed and the remains of the former mor 
tal body appear on the bare earth. The 
corpse can then be normally raised. If the 
ghost is not one of the PCs, use the following 
statistics for the NPC, 

Theyraz (14th level Mystic): AC -4; HD 
AT 4 fist/foot; D 5d6x4; Save 
F14; M 10. AL L; St 14; In 14, W 15; Dx 
17, Co 16; Gh 13, No magic items, no 
equipment. 

When the conversation ends, the presence 
of living men on the island triggers jealousy 
and hate in the ranks of the undcad. The 
characters must flee or be attacked by id4 + 4 
undead, chosen at random. They do not fol 
low the party beyond 300 feet of the pit. The 
others crawl about the trench to get their 
share of milk and honey. 

If the party is stranded, they must flee or 
fight hordes of undead pouring from the pit. 
The party can flee using the flying carpet (if 
they acquired it in encounter 6), or spells 
such as fly, teleport ati on t or gate. The water 
surrounding the isle is poisonous to touch 
(Saving Throw vs. Poison at -5 or die). Oth 
erwise, either Vanya or Koryis may inter 
vene, if they have an intervention left to be 
played (see page 21). Either could provide 
transportation (such as an undersea boat- 
see Companion rules; however it should not 
be able to submerge in this plane). 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the party destroyed or neutralized the 
demon, Vanya scores 5 points. 

If the party has no way of leaving the 
Shrine of Death, Alphaks scores 5 points. 

If the party can leave on their own and suc 
cessfully raised the body of the lawful ghost, 
Koryis scores 5 points. 


13 









Chapter 2: FLIGHT TO THE STAR KINGDOMS 


Time moves much slower in the under 
world, compared to the prime material plane. 
Since the party left Kerry's island, six months 
have passed. If ship* were waiting at the gate 
or on Kersy's island, they arc now gone. Play 
encounter 8d next. 

8d* Return to Kersy T s Island 

When the party returns, the winds blow- 
them to Kersy's island. The PCs discover 
their fleet is gone T Kersy is surprised and 
happy to see the characters. She explains that 
they have been gone for six months and no 
one expected them to return 

She offers her hospitality again, for as long as 
the party wants to stay During thai rime, the 
party may build a raft or a small sailboat if their 
other ship has been destroyed. As rime passes, 
Kersy warns them of dangers lying in their way: 


'*First, you must sail on the great Hal sea 
that lies between here and three small 
kingdoms. Avoiding the sea is not advised 
since you would face the wandering rocks. 
They exist in most of the breathable space 
of this sky. Their speed is incredible and 
they Soil whatever they hit. 

"There is only one area that can be crossed 
to reach the other lidc The region is infested 
with monsters. Their singing is deadly and no 
one must listen to their voices, 

''Beyond, in a dangerous strait. lurk 
iwo horrid monsters. One dwells under 
the water. Keep away from its whirlpool. 
The other hides in a mountain and always 
attacks by surprise. No one has ever been 
able to observe any of them, so I cannot 
help you more. 

Perhaps the people of the three king 
doms can help you rind what you seek." 


Play encounter 9 next. The Great Sea in the 
Sky, The players may choose their course then, 

9, The Great Sea Ln the Sky 


Beyond the remaining space ahead of you 
extends a titanic horizontal spiral of water, 
spreading several curving arms on its outer 
rim. The center forms a great flat sea that 
seems navigable. A# usual, the center sea h 
covered with a dome of light and beat, as 
though it were a separate world. 

Several miles above and beneath the 
great spiral, as well as on both sides, 
extends an endless region filled with vast 
floating dusters of rough stones churning 
and crashing together. 


If the party chooses to sail on the sea, they 


have no trouble reaching the water and sail 
ing, toward the center of the spiral. If the 
party attempts to sail in the empty space 
between the flat spiral and the stones, the spi 
ral's current pulls the ships back to the great 
sea. No amount of magic or wind prevents 
this from occurring. 

If the party attempts to pass "under" the 
sea spiral, the ship hits the liquid surface 
upside down and sinks through it to reappear 
floating on the other side. Characters ding 
ing to the ship easily survive, however, the 
others must be able to swrim to follow the 
ship. Heavily armored characters remain 
between the two surfaces and drown if not 
rescued. Once the party sails on the upper 
surface of the great spiral, run encounter 11. 

If the party chooses to cross the crushing 
stones, run encounter 10. 

Immortals do not score points during this 
encounter. 

10* The Wandering Rocks 


A multitude of jagged rocks floats in the 
dark sky, endlessly filling the void. Occa 
sionally, a spherical flaming stone dashes 
in between, bumping into another rock 
and shattering it Thousands of small 
razor sharp shards then ricochet in all 
directions, like deadly daggers. 


This region of the void is filled with asteroids 
and small meteorites. If the party decides to 
venture through them, they do not have any 
difficulties avoiding the motionless asteroids. 
However, once every' hour, a meteorite is likely 
to hit the ship (hit roll as fighter level 1, normal 
ship's AG) or, if it misses, has a 10% chance of 
hitting a nearby asteroid. 

The ship takes 5d6 HP of damage (impact 
and fire) each time a meteorite hits it. See 
Special Attacks rules on fire, page £6 of the 
Master Players Book. All damages to ships 
are treated as Hull Points. 

If ihe meteorite hits an asteroid, the ship takes 
5 HP of damage and all the passengers, whether 
inside or exposed on the deck must make a Sav 
ing Throw vs. Spells at -5. If the saving throw 
fails, the victim suffers 5dl0 points of damage. If 
it succeeds, damages are halved. The shards pen 
etrate the hull as though it were paper 

The journey across the wandering stones takes 
2d4 days. If the party successfully crosses that 
area, play encounter 15. If the ship is destroyed, 
the party drifts back to Kersy's Island, eventually 
taking more damage from the shard*. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the party's ship IS destroyed, Alphaks 
scores 5 points. 


If the party successfully crosses the wan 
dering rocks, Vanya scores 5 points. 

If the party finally chooses the other way, 
Kory is scores 5 points. 

11. The Voice of Death 

This encounter occurs in one of the two hexes 
numbered 11 on "The Great Spiral Map." 


The wind has been slowly dying for one 
full day The surface of the sea is now as 
smooth as oil. The heat and the silence are 
more oppressing with every hour. 

You have observed strange eddies and 
bubbles popping out of the glassy surface. 
The few bubbles become a multitude 
when the entire sea around the ship starts 
bubbling as though it were hailing. 


If the characters listen, they' hear strange 
notes and voices each rime a bubble bursts. The 
bubbles and the voices are created by sea hags 
(see Masters Set). The hags' songs and pleas 
reach their maximum intensity when the sea lit 
erally boils. Some characters hear voices of their 
King or Koryis if they have already met him, 
warning them that the sea is an illusion and the 
only way back home is to dive into the sea. 
Some zzonga-intoxicated crew could unplug 
their ears to listen to the songs, causing their 
own doom and their ship to drift aimlessly. 

Any character with unplugged ears at that 
time dives into the water and is dragged down 
by (he hags (no saving throw). The victim is 
totally unconscious and unable to fight or cast 
spells. The creatures devour the victim unless 
he is rescued. PCs with plugged ears may 
attack the sea hags if they find a way to 
breath. The victims are free once all the sea 
hags are killed or neutralized. 

There are 20 sea hags 50 feet below the 
ship. They attack anything swimming, how 
ever, they do not pursue the ship beyond 300 
feet of this spot. At 150 feet below is their lair, 
an old ship wreck containing 50,000 gp, 
masses of various skeletons, and rusty equip 
ment. The creatures use huge conches to cre 
ate the bubbles and to amplify their songs. 
The shells are not magical. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the party destroys all the hags, Vanya 
scores 5 paints. 

If the party sails past the hags, ignoring 
their songs, Koryis scores 5 points. 

If the party loses any of their members and 
are unable to raise them (they abandoned them 
or lost their clerics), Alphaks scores 5 points, 

Run encounter 12 next. Whirlpool and 
Stone Jaw ?i. 


14 








DM MAP #2 - 
STAR KINGDOMS 
AERIAL BOUNDARIES 


" 1985 TSR Inc. Ait Rights Reserved. Printed in U.SA 


I spfi VI[EW B f 





SA\r 


Xm 

pool injfrotii iTr $ 




T 


T% 






















wmmmmmzrn 








*> 1985 TSR Inc. All RigMs Reserved Printed in U S.A, 













>y-XCj ' 
WWW 


fflWSTTOW 

mmm """" 

mmmmm 

£"¦"$!§"! 


i8""^^ny|i aiatiii( sam 

**""'<a **9flK|K" rnmmwm**** ^ 

li^ssssssrasa 

SlifJSSSIHB 

r : 

¦ ''-¦ vlr.. V -:::¦ 

•• ii.;- f K : s* "-*":¦ 

**** Ss 

""(r)"i" ^^¦^LEtU! 
"m " " ""i (r) ^vvTrrn 
m""l 

"H£ $$$$$£:¦ 


Scale: 1 square - 250 feet 


MAP 5 - 

ALPHAKS' VOLCANO 


MAP KEY 



















































Chapter 2: FLIGHT TO THE STAR KINGDOMS 


12. Whirlpool and Stone Jaws 


Near the center or the sea spiral, two coasts 
form a narrow strait a half mile wide, 

Sheer vertical cliffs overlook the sea as 
far as the coast can be seen. On the west 
side of the strait, a large whirlpool proba 
bly marking the center of the spiral 
drains roaring blue waters into a dark 
opening. A narrow path, no more than 
100 feet wide, exists between the bottom 
of the east cliff and the edge of the whirl 
pool where the current is weaker 


If the party attempts to land elsewhere and 
climb the cliffs, they discover that the land is 
a bare, dry rocky desert. From both sides of 
the strait, the desen extends to the outer rim 
of the spiral where it crumbles into rough 
stones. There, they become wandering rocks, 
floating in the sky 

The temperature in the desert is over 100 
degrees (ahrenheii, and no water exists on its sur 
face. Every 10 rums in this desert, some explo 
sive gas teaks from under the rocks, creating an 
explosion at contact with ain Each explosion is 
equivalent to a 10d6 lire ball and has a 50% 
chance of affecting the party. The parry should be 
allowed to find a few wrecks to build a raft. 

This entire sea on which the party is sailing 
was once created by the Alphatiam when 
they opened vortices from the Elemental 
Plane of Water. The desert is all that remains 
oFAlphaks' world. His rivals destroyed it and 
left only the huge spiral of water and rocks. 
Since then, creatures of the other plane 
inverted this vortex and closed all others. The 
waters are gushing back to where they 1 came 
from. At that rate, however it will take sev 
eral centuries before the sea totally disap 
pears, Anyone sucked into the whirlpool 
enters the Elemental Plane of Water 
(encounter 13), This is one of the "monsters" 
Kersv mentioned earlier. 

The other monster hides in a cavern above 
the narrow pass in the eastern clifT. At first 
the creature looks like huge stone columns 
carved in the clifT, It can surprise ships sailing 
below on its first attack. It is able to cast one 
illusion spell per day to distract its victims. 
During this encounter, the illusion is of a 
large multi-headed dragon flying toward the 
fleet from the west cliff 

The creature is a giant hydra {treat as a gar 
gantuan equivalent). It has only six heads; how 
ever, each head has 128 hit points. One head 
inflicts 4-40 (4dl0) points of damage to a PC or 
NPC, or, it grabs ld6 normal men off the ship's 
deck. The only way to kill the creature is to cut aU 
its heads off. As the PCs T ship passes below, two 


of the heads bite the stem and aft of the ship to 
stop it, and the four others attack the passengers. 
Once the party has freed the ship from the 
hydra s hold, it takes 2 more rounds to sail out of 
range of the heads. 

The giant hydra has a treasure containing 
i 0,000 pp and a bastard sword + 2, + 5 vs. 
demons It is engraved with rones that say, "The 
Strength of Vanya Protects the Conquerors." 

'fhe sword, of Neutral alignment, is intelligent 
and speaks Common, Elf, any water elemental 
languages, and Storm Giant. It reads magic and 
can defect invisible, detect creatures from the 
Sphere of Death, and teleport back to Vanya if its 
bearer k destroyed or killed. 

The sword knows Vanya's nature and pur 
poses but only reveals them if the party scores 
over 25 points for Vanya in this chapter. It 
does not reveal anything elsfc, however it does 
tend to dlreci its owner toward Alphaks, thus 
through the Magic Mists, a region on the 
opposite side of this world (sec Chapter 3) 
and to Alphaks 1 mountain. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the party fails to cross the strait, and/or 
shuts the gate to the Plane of Water, AJphaks 
scores 5 points. 

If the party successfully crosses the strait 
without losing any crew members, or without 
destroying the giant hydra, Koryis scores 5 
points. 

If the party destroys the hydra. Vanya 
scores 5 points 

If the party crosses the strait, either on land 
or on ship, go to encounter 14. By the time 
tile party's fleet crosses the sea spiral, the food 
supplies on board should be seriously 
reduced. Tf the party fails to cross the strait, 
they drift into the Elemental Plane of Water* 
Then run encounter 13 next. 

13. The Plane of Water 

Since the party entered through a vortex, 
they are now made of water. They do not 
need breathing devices to survive in this 
dimension. The PCs cannot go up Lhe vortex 
because of strong currents. 

For every round the party remains in this 
plane, the party has a 10 % chance of encoun 
tering 3d 10 water elemcntals. They slowly 
circle around the party for a turn, observing 
them with their cold gray eyes before they 
decide to parley, 11" the party attacks them, 
they have no chance to return to the strait 
other than a wish spell or their undersea boat 
(if it was provided earlier by an Immortal). 

Vanya, closely related to the Plane of 
Water, has sent these creatures to help the 
party return to the strait and cross it safely. 


The creatures are able to invert the vortex for 
a limited time. 

During their conversation with the parry, die 
creatures may reveal they are Mowers of Vanya. 
They say she is a powerful temporal of the 
Sphere of Time, and the patron of Conquerors. 
She is busy right now dealing with a possible war 
m another worid, however, they say they been 
ordered to help the parry If the party shows the 
rod of victory (see Chapter 1), the creamres say 
dial Vanya had the same one once. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the party attacks the creatures, Alphaks 
scores 5 points 

If the party discovert the nature of Vanya, 
she scores 5 points. 

If the party leaves this plane by their own 
means, Koryis scores 5 points. 

Go to encounter 14 next, Vanya's Flock 

14. Vanya's Flock 

The trip to this area should take long 
enough so the party runs low on food sup 
plies. The sea currents in this area of the spi 
ral are awesome and storms are common, 
However, despite rough waters, the party 
should reach this encounter without excess 
casualties or damage to the fleet. Meanwhile. 
Alphaks foils any attempt lo use magic in 
order to make food (except zzongas) in the 
form of comatninarion, pests, zzonga, or 
fungi. The Chaotic temporal is trying to 
starve the party so they attack Vanya's sheep. 
When they arrive at the site of the encounter, 
read the following. 


After a long and difficult navigation 
against opposing currents, you reach a 
small island near the other end of the sea 
spiral. It is partially covered with an oak 
forest. Between the beach and the trees 
extends a wide hilly area, covered with 
thick green grass. Dozens of sheep peace 
fully graze in front of the trees. 


If crew members still remain, they refuse to 
weigh anchor before supplies are stocked in the 
ship or on the raft. The> wait until the PCs are 
busy exploring the forest or fishing elsewhere to 
attack the animals and make a feast, 

Run encounter 15 next. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the sheep have been harmed, and/or the 
crew rebels against the party, Alphaks scores 
5 points. 

If the sheep are not harmed and the party 
avoids a mutiny, Koryis scores 5 points 
Vanya does not score points in this 
encounter. 


19 




f 

Chapter 2: FLIGHT TO THE STAR KINGDOMS 



15. An Immortal's Storm 

Play this encounter as soon as the party 
leaves the island. 


The sky turns black and the sails violently 
flap in the winds Ground swells rock the 
vessel, as huge rolling waves appear roar 
ing at the horizon The storm grows more 
violent every second until horrendous 
waves smash the vessel to pieces 


The storm is caused either by Vanya w hose 
sheep have been harmed, or by Alphaks 
because the parly crossed the great spiral sea. 

The parry may not control the storm since 
it is created by an immortal. As revenge, the 
immortal destroys the parry*s ships and 
drowns any remaining crew. The party may 
survive by dinging to debris or broken masts. 


For a few days, they drift into the void, finally 
leaving the great spiral sea. Run encounter 
16 next. 

7'he immortal responsible for the storm 
automatially scores 5 points in this cnounter. 
If Vanya has been irritated by the death of her 
sheep, or if she has scored 20 points or less in 
this chapter, she turns against the party. 
From now on. her interventions are aimed at 
the destruction of the adventurers, undi the 
party proves worthy by performing some glo 
rious act, explained in Chapter 3, 

16. The Del I ban Outpost 


After ihe violent storm has destroyed your 
last hope of returning home, the roaring 
winds of the void toss you near a small 


platform, It seems like a man-made con 
struction, with a stone observation tower. 
An unknown flag flutters above the tower. 
You faintly hear the sound of a horn w hen 
a small but sturdy skiff appears from 
behind the tower, braving the rough winds 
to come to your rescue. Seven men sit 
inside* one at the rear* holding the rudder. 


The men are part of die Del than ^ garri 
son- Their mission is to guard this part of the 
sky and rescue Hurvivoin from the great spiral 
sea There are 20 men, all 5th level lawful 
fighters plus a Lieutenant. His name is Yor- 
rick. He is a 20th level fighter, a paladin com 
missioned by his superiors to hold the tower. 

Yorricfe (20th level fighter): AC -2; hp 150; 

AT I sword; D ld8 + 5; Save F2Q; ML 11; 

AL L; St 18. In 12, Wi 15, D* 13, Co 16* 
Ch 17. 

Magic Items: bastard sword +2, greater 
talisman of elemental travel, plate mail 
+ 3 of ethereality 
Spells Available: 

Level 1: Light (x2) 

Level 2: Bless, Speak with Animals 
Level 3: Striking 

When I he rescuer* bring the party back to 
the tower, Yorrick offers food and rest to the 
survivors. The tower is constructed simply, 
with a small pier behind the tower, a main 
hall at the lower level, and a dormitory at the 
intermediate level. The last floor opens on 
the roof where guards const an dy observe the 
sky Every three months, several Ddihan ves 
sels stop at the tower to change the garrison, 
get their reports, and bring new supplies. 
More information is available on the Dei- 
thans, Bekhans, and Gammarians in Chap 
ter 3, 

The Delthans are worried about a large 
fleet that sailed past their tower a few days 
before. They sent a messenger to warn their 
king. They think it was a Gammarian fleet on 
its way to attack Ddthar. If it was, a new war 
will surely begin. The description of the ships 
corresponds to die party's fleet. If \5>rrick dis 
covers the panv has something to do with 
that fleet, he immediately orders them 
arrested, on the charge of espionage. Any 
resistance provokes a fight to the death with 
the Ddthan garrison. 

If die party asks about Dekhar, Yorrick 
replies it is their kingdom. He indicates its 
approximate direction but warns there arc 
two other realms, Belthar and Gamma r. A 
fragile truce exists between them and fric 
tions are common. Regulations prevent him 


20 









Chapter 2: FLIGHT TO THE STAR KINGDOMS 


from giving more details to strangers. How 
ever, Yorrick suggests the party use one of his 
small sailships if they want to leave. 

They will be granted shelter in the port of 
Delthar if they bear the peace flag. From there 
they can meet the city authorities and explain 
their problem. If the parry has nothing to hide, 
help will probably be offered. Yorrick gives the 
parry- a written permit to sail in Ddthan skies. 

Victory Points for Immortals 

If the parry decides to wait for the next Del* 
than ship, Alphaks scores 5 points. 

If the party attacks and seizes the tower, 
Vanya scores 5 points. 

If the party thanks Yomck and sails on 
immediately, Kory is scores 5 points. 

If the party waits for the next Delthan ship, 
go to the Aftermath section at the end of ibis 
chapter. The next encounter then occurs in 
Chapter 3, 

If the party immediately leaves die tower, 
run encounter 17, 

17. The Return of the Armada 


The shapes of sails appear at the horizon, 
navigating toward you, full speed astern. 
Dozens of ships, ranging from sail ships to 
galleys and longships, spread out in a wide 
comhat Line 


The ships belong to the party's armada L As 
a precaution, they assume combat formation 
when they see the party's vessel. When they 
get dose enough to recognize the party, they 
welcome them back to the armada. 

When the fleet left Kersy's island, Kory is 
intervened and opened a path between the 
wandering rockfc Koryis could do so because 
Alphaks was occupied with the player charac 
ters in the Sphere of Death. 

After crossing the wandering rocks, with 
the help of Vanya, Korvis stopped the fleet in 
a time trap. Beyond vague dreams, none of 
the men realize exactly what has happened. 
The party is now- ahead of the ships* course. 
The fleet recuperates the PCs on its way to 
the Star Kingdoms (see Chapter 3), 

In his hurry- to find the mist region King 
Leosus described* the substitute fleet com 
mander ignored the tower's signals. To his 
knowledge, the fleet has not met anybody 
else. Unless the PCs actually attack the fleet, 
Koryis scores 5 points. 

Immortals' Interventions 

Every time one immortal scores 15 points 
{or a multiple of 15) within this section, that 


immortal may intervene to help or cause 
trouble to the party; Those interventions may 
be played at the moment chosen by the DM, 
when time seems most appropriate. 

Koryis: Koryis usually intervenes to help 
the party, either healing them, raising fully a 
lost character, or repairing their ship. One of 
Koryis' possible interventions occurs just 
before the party encounters Kersy for the first 
time (see encounter 7). IT this happens, read 
the fallowing to the players: 


A handsome glowing man materializes in 
your path, and says* "Welcome, my sons. 
As I had foreseen* you have not escaped 
your fate. However* l must warn you 
again of the dangers and rewards awaiting 
beyond this forest. Look near your path, 
and pluck the blue flowers. Eat their roots 
for they will protect you against a sorcer 
ess 1 powers. Force her to swear loyalty 
and she will become your ally" 

The apparition fades and the natural 
life of the forest reawakens* as though you 
woke from a dream. 


If the party obeys the advice* none of Ker- 
sy's powers can affect them. 

Koryis may also intervene if the party is 
stranded at the Shrine of Death (see 
encounter 8c), In thai case, read the follow 
ing to the players: 


A bridge of white light flashes from the 
shore to the direction of the gate. The 
undead creatures cover their faces and 
immediately retreat back into the pit A 
voice suddenly booms, "Leave Alphaks 1 
antechamber. Your path has come too 
close to his lair. Follow the bridge and 
return to the free sky" 


Vanya: She normally intervenes to help the 
party Save one intervention until the party 
reaches the Shrine of Death. IT they are 
stranded, read the preceding encounter. 

Otherwise, her most common intervention is 
to raise one of the bravest character's statistics 
one point She normally chooses one statistic in 
this order of preference: Strength* Charisma, 
Dexterity, or Constitution. She never causes a 
statistic to be raised higher than 18. 

If Vanya turns against the party (her sheep 
have been harmed or her score is less than 25 
in this chapter), her future interventions 
oppose the party during Chapter 3, If, once 
again, the party proves by thetr actions to be 
worthy of her protection* she is appeased and 
forgives them 


Alphaks: Alphaks always opposes flic party. 
Since the adventurers go against all of his pints, 
chances are Alphaks has fewer chances to inter 
vene than the two other temporals. 

Alphaks must intervene at least once 
before ihe party reaches the great sea spiral. 
If aL that time Alphaks does not have 15 
points yet. he intervenes anyway* but he loses 
all die points he scored in this chapter, up to 
encounter 9. 

Alphaks 1 first intervention against the 
party is to tear up their wind bag (see 
encounter 4a). He does so by [deporting a 
revener near the bag This happens when the 
characters least expect the encounter. It then 
rips the bag open and attacks the party as ail 
of the foul winds turn against their ships. The 
storm blows the party and any accompanying 
ships back to encounter 3b. 

Otherwise, Alphaks intervenes with vari 
ous curses such as: 

All the party saves at -5 until the end of 
the adventure. 

All the appointed commanders in the 
fleet are treated as if their Charisma was 5 
points lower This affects only the reaction 
of the troops and sailors in the fleet. 
Orders may not always be obeyed* deser 
tion may occur, mutinies* or chaos on 
board. This holds true until Alphaks is 
destroyed. 

AH the food on board rots one hour after 
it is created or stocked into the ships, All 
magical attempts to create food are imme 
diately foiled. 

Those curses may not be dispelled* except 
by Alphaks himself or another temporal 

Aftermath 

If Koryis stores the most points in this 
chapter* all of the curses Alphaks may have 
bestowed upon the party are removed. 

If Vanya scored the most points, two possi 
bilities may occur. If she is still friendly, she 
creates a spirit of heroism within the troops. 
All of the fleets and troops increase their Bat 
tle Rating 20 points. If on the contrary* she 
has been irritated by the party's acts* she 
instead reduces the Battle Ratings 20 points. 
This holds true until Alphaks is destroyed. 

If unfortunately Alphaks has Lhe higher 
score* an incurable rotting disease decimates 
50% oF the troops* sailors, rowers and sea 
men still existing in the fleet. 

In case of a tie, nothing happens. Add up 
the two scores each temporal generated dur 
ing the two last chapters and save the result 
for the end of the adventure, The results help 
determine which temporal becomes the dom 
inating one at the end. 


21 







Chapter 3: FOR THE GLORY OF THE WARLORDS 


Encounter Setting 

The PCs 1 goal ini this chapter is to reach the 
Magic Mist on the opposite side. Crossing 
with their fleet provokes reactions through 
out the region. The PCs must either ally or 
defeat the various powers an this region to 
reach the Mist. 

Three roughly hemispherical realms 
occupy this pan of the sky. When the party 
arrives, a fragile truce ts in existence, how 
ever, any unexpected event may cause a con 
flict, These petty realms have survived their 
many wars because of the length of a siege 
warfare and the reluctance of the powerful 
Guild of Merchants to get involved. 

The arrival of the party's armada provokes 
a significant reaction Let the players handle 
all of the forces on their side, including their 
new allies, without letting them abuse the 
privilege (capital cities do not send their 
home garrisons to war). 

When moving in the Star Kingdoms, use 
Map 2A, Map 2B should only be used to vis 
ualize the party's position if they change their 
altitude. All three worlds and the Merchant 
Guild are approximately at the same level, so 
the players may ignore the three-dimensional 
movement if they find it too complicated. Use 
DM Map 3 when the party reaches one of the 
Star Kingdoms. 

After the PCs reach their goal, the Magic 
Mists, read the Aftermath section at the end 
of this chapter. Allying or conquering realms 
may generate extra troops for the next chap 
ter, Back into the Madstmm. 

Deltkar 

This realm occupies a huge island similar 
to Paradise island. Most of the country is 
covered with rich farmlands with several vil 
lages located at key points. Their economy is 
based on agriculture. It is sufficient to feed 
the population and some products are traded 
to outside realms. The population, called 
Fladanders. reaches 50,000 people; 30% are 
located in nr near the capital city, 

A powerful church council and a king rule 
Ddthar. The religious order is Lawful and 
backs the cause of paladinhood. Thr land is 
currendy under the control of King Korwald, 
one of the finest examples of what a knight 
stands for. If anything happens to the king, 
the church takes oven until a proper knight of 
the order becomes king (there h no royal 
descendance). 

King Korwald (33th levd paladin): AC -5A10; 
F3 5; hp 110; AT 1 bastard sword: D ld6 + 2 
(ld6 + 7); Save F33; ML 11; AL L; St 17; 
Wi Hi. In 13, Dx 12, Co 14* Ch 16 


Magic Items: plate armor + 4, shield + 2, 
bastard sword * 5 defending. Other items 
are at the discretion of the DM. 

An elite body guard of paladins protects King 
Korwald at all times: 

Jfl Royal Bodyguards (10th level fighters): 
AC -4; F10; hp 70; MV 90'(30'): AT 1 
two-handed sword/longbow; D 3-12/1-6; 
Save F10; ALL 

Delthar Forces 

The holy realm has dozens of small towers 
floating in the sky (see encounter 16, previous 
chapter), Ddthar is the capital city of the holy 
realm, ft is strongly fortified and defended by 
the following garrison . 

Force: Delthar'" Guard BR: 165 

Leader: King Korwald 
Location: Within 3 hexes of Ddthar 
No. Troops: 3,250 (4,550 HD with mounts) 
Type: 650 longhowmen, 200 artillerists, 
LI00 swordsmcn/pikemen* 650 horse- 
men, 650 cleric adepts. 

If the land is invaded, some of the popula 
tion can be raised to defend their homeland: 

Force: Church's Militia BR: 74 

Leader: Sir Haarlow, 18th level fighter 
Location: any land hex in Delthar 
No. Troops: 4,000 (4*800 HD) 

Type: 3 r 200 peasants with crude weapons, 
800 cleric adepts 

The port in the capital city of Delthar holds 
their war fleet, it defends the city* intercepts 
invading forces, or carries im'asions against 
other lands. 

Force: Ddthan War Fleet 

Battle Rating: 184 Av r Speed: 123'/rd 

Fleet Class: Ex, Troop Class: Ex. 

3 Lg, Galleys: 120 HP each, Artillery 
Ram. 

8 Sm. Galleys: 100 HP each, Artillery 
Ram. 

6 Flat Tbps*: 180 HP each 
3 Troop TVanspons: 150 HP each 

Tbtal Hull Points: 2*930 
Marines: 910 (2 J20 HD, including mounts) 
Sailors: 320 Rowers: 1,020 

Men in Fleet: 2,250 (300 hippogriffs) 

Marines: 30% long bow, level L AC4 
All marines on small galleys are level 2 
clerks. BR on land is 192, 

Flat Tops: each carries 50 marines mounted 
on hippogriffs. Included in the global 


marine force in this fleet, 

TFoop Transports: each carries H10 marines 
Commander: the leader has a Leadership 

Factor of 78, and has trained 3 weeks with 

his men, All troops are Lawful, 

(*) Flat Tbps are equivalent to large TVoop 
Transports, with large flat platforms on their 
stem and aft enabling flying cavalry to take 
off easily. However, that type of ship moves 
only 90 feet per round, instead of 120, 

If the party arrives in Delthar without their 
fleet, shelter in the fortified port is granted. 
When the party's armada discovers the pres 
ence of a powerful realm , they come to a halt 
and parley. For political reasons, Ddthar 
authorities refuse their passage across Dd 
than sky territory, and demand they turn 
back. If the party does not return to their 
fleet, the substitute commander orders the 
armada to attack Delthar's fleet and attempts 
to sail past their realm. From that point, the 
king offers a reward for the capture of the 
PCs, now considered enemies. They must 
secretly flee Ddthar and regain their fleet as 
soon a(r) possible. 

If the party returns to their fleet, they 
resume command and choose their next 
course of action. The party may attack Del 
thar, or avoid them, in which case they would 
sail toward one of the other territories To 
attack Ddthar, the party's fleet must first sail 
onto its sea because of the gravity force. One 
of the three sky territories must be crossed to 
reach the mist area, the realms extends to the 
breathable limits of the sky. 

If the PCs* fleet has been totally destroyed 
before this chapter, the party may gain the 
king's sympathy by saying they are on a quest 
against Alphahs, The king would then offer 
them a ship so they can pursue their adven 
ture. With a single ship, the party may reach 
the Magic Mists directly (sec end of this 
chapter) without intervention from Gammar 
or Bdthar 

Bdthar and Gammar immediately ally 
against Ddthar. Spy repons of a large uni 
dentified fleet anchored near Delthar cause 
the two other nations to believe the religious 
realm is plotting an invasion. If the party's 
fleet sails past Ddthar, Bdthar and Gammar 
Only after this does Ddthar permit the 
armada to cross their aerial space 

Bdthar 

Bdthar occupies the top surface of a planet 
shard. From a distance, it appears to be a 
long rough cone of rock, with a semi- 
spherical surface* opposite the pointed end. 
High mountains and numerous green valleys 


22 




Chapter 3: FOR THE GLORY OF THE WARLORDS 


cover the land. Rivers reaching the rim of this 
world gush down imo the void* several miles 
below. Vast masses of clouds Form and slowly 
rise back to the sky above Belthar. 

Most of the villages are on top of steep 
slopes, on the rides of maun tains. The econ 
omy is based on mining and underground 
resources. A great deal is traded to other 
nations. Agriculture is barely able to support 
the population and Bdthar sometimes relies 
on Delthan or Gammarian food. The popula 
tion reaches 150,000 people and 15,000 
dwarves. 

Bdthar is a republic representing most 
activities (military, religious, magic, etc,)* 
Their society is based on Neutral concepts of 
life and do not normally support a part icular 
philosophy other than their freedom. Bdthar 
is represented by the General Secretary of the 
Republic, Lord Rawn-Driz. 

G.S.R. Lord Rawn-Driz (28th level thief): 
AC 3; hp 65; AT 1 normal sword; D 1 - 
6 + 4; Save T28; M 9; AL N; St 12; In 15; 
Wi 12; Dx 17; Co 15; Ch 10 
Magic Items: ring of protection + 3, long 
sward + 3 of deceiving, amulet of protec 
tion vs, ESP and crystal balk. Other items 
are at the discretion of the DM. 

Rawn-Driz secretly is the master of the 
Thieves* Guild in Bdthar. Up to 50Q thieves 
of various levels m the country work under 
his orders. 

Belthar Forces 

Bdthar is the capital dty of the republic* 
Most of the city ts buried inside a mountain, 
at the center of Bekhar. The only part that 
remains visible is a cluster of 50 high towers 
on the mountain side. At least 8,000 people 
Jive below. The ciiy has the following garri 
son. 

Force: Bdthar Republican Guard BR: 97 
Leader: Lord Rawn-Driz 
Location: Within 5 hexes of Bdthar 
No. TVoops: 3,800 (3,800 HD) 

Type: 200 longbowrnen* 300 artillerists, 
2 ? GQG swordsmen, 1,300 dwarves. 

If the mountain ranges arc invaded, the 
local population can be raised to defend their 
homeland: 

Force: Bdthar Republican Militia BR: 78 
Leader: Lord Brifhlz, 12th level Dwarf 
Location: Any mountain hex in Bekhar 
No. Troops: 8,000 (8,000 HD) 

Type: 6,200 peasants with crude weapons, 
1,800 dwarves with axes and crossbows. 


A secret cavern holds the Bel than war fleet. 
It is used the same way the Ddthans do. 

Force: Bekhan War Fleet 

Battle Rating: 172 Av\ Speed: 300'/rd 

Fleet Class: Good Troop Glass: Good 

30 Sm. Galleys: 90 HP each* Artillery 

Total Hull Points: 2,700 
Seamen; 2,100 (2,370 HD, including 
dragons') 

Men in Fleet: 2,100, 30 blue dragons 

Seamen: 20% long bow, level I lighters, 
AC6. BR on land is 137. 

Galleys: each is pulled by a small blue 
dragon. Troops may act as rowers with 
their magical oars if their pulling dragon 
is dead. The dragons may use their breath 
weapon. 

Commander: the leader has a Leadership 
Factor of 65, and has trained 2 weeks with 
his men. All troops are Neutral. 

(*) The dragons" tactic is to land on enemy 
vessels to attack passengers and to allow 
friendly troops to perform boarding attacks. 
They are as much a part of the fleet as of the 
fighting troops (marines). 

Events 

If the party defeats the Bdthan war fleet 
once, the republic's authorities agree to par 
ley If the party agrees to sign a separate 
peace treaty and not attack them further, then 
Belthar breaks its coalition with Gammar. 
The party's fleet may then leave. Otherwise, 
the Belthans seek revenge with the help of 
Gammarians. Soon the party realizes that the 
rest of the Bdthan area is impassable without 
a full knowledge of the asteroid dusters. The 
only way to gain Bekhan cooperation is to 
invade them. 

Only Bdthan navigators know the few 
channels to cross the asteroids safely* but that 
is a State secret. If the party invades their 
capital, Bekhar surrenders and gives up the 
vital navigation maps. The Thieves 7 Guild 
then organizes a guerrilla movement until the 
party leaves or they are destroyed. The par 
ty's troops lose ld2Q men per day vs. IdG for 
the Thieves' Guild, 

Gammar 

Gammar is a tiny spherical planet, no 
more than 80 miles in diameter, with a vari 
ety of terrain types. The economy is well- 
developed, selling agricultural goods, 
mining* special crafts, and an. A population 
of 30,000 thrives In this country: A dozen 


smaller islands are scattered within the Gam 
marian air-space. 

Gammar is an authoritarian magocraey 
devoted to Chaos, One powerful wizard 
assisted by a few lesser mages control the 
country. The current ruling wizard, His 
Radiance Halzunthram, is plotting the 
destruction of Ddthar in order to exert a 
firmer political control within the Star King 
doms, However, his government is plagued 
with internal frictions and rivalries between 
schools of magic. 

His Radiance Halzunthram (35th level 
magic-user); AG 3; hp 70; AT 1 dagger; D 
1-4 + 2; Save MU35; M 8; AL C; St 11; 
In 18; Wi J6; Dx 12; Co 12; Ch 17 
Magic [terns: ring of protection + 5* dagger 
+ 2 of draining, amulet of protection vs. 
ESP and crystal balk, staff of fire element. 
Other items are at the discretion of the 
DM. 

Gammarian Forces 

To reach Gammar, Invaders would have to 
sail onto any sea of the planet, and reach the 
coast. Gammar, the capital rity, can be reached 
sailing up the Shain river. Gammar is fortified 
and 10,000 people normally live within its 
walls, including the following garrison: 

Force: Gammarian Elite Phalanxes BR; 207 
Leader: His Radiance Halzunthram 
Location: Within 5 hexes of Gammar 
No. Troops: 2,080 (7,200 HD with mounts) 
Type: 400 mounted longbowmcn, 100 artil 
lerists, 500 swordsmen, 1,000 magic- 
users (all troops are level 3). 

If the land is attacked, the following force 
may be raised against the invader: 

Force: Gammarian Hordes BR: LOO 

Leader: Lord Yrnsteph, 20th level MU 
Location: any hex in Gammar 
No. Troops: 2,000 (2,200 HD) 

Type: 1,900 peasants with crude weapons. 
LOO 3rd level magic-users. 

Gammarian Fleet: Shark-Pack Battle Forma 
tion 

Battle Rating: 273 Av. Speed: 120^rd 
Fleet Class: EIIec Troop Class: Elite 

5 Phaseships(*): 50 HP each 

(Each is equipped with a crystal ball to be 

able to navigate while in phase.) 

Total Hull Points: 250 
Crew: 30 (175 HD) 


23 


Chapter 3: FOB THE GLORY OF THE WARLORDS 


Crew: Level 5 Fighters, AC 8; fight as nor 
mal troops if boarded. BR on land 207. 
Phaseships: Unless the ship i" destroyed, the 
crew never suffers (extra) casualties. Sky- 
sharks engaged in a Sea Machine combat 
take triple damage in Hull Points. 
Commander: the leader has a Leadership 
Factor of 55, and has trained 5 weeks with 
his men. 

(*) See New Monsters Section on the sky- 
sharks. Gammar has 3 shark-pack squad 
rons. 

Events 

If the party defeats Gammar, Bdthar (if 
still free) sends its fleet to intercept the party 
They attack as the party leaves for the Magic 
Mists, Gammar forces never surrender, and 
light until the last man is destroyed. 

Gammar normally does not use their sky- 
sharks in open confrontations. Those ships 
are designed to operate as spies or against 
vulnerable forces. The third shark-pack is 
never available For a major {Sea-Machine) 
battle since ii is spread out in the Star King 
doms. The two others remain near the planet 
for its defense and as an early warning sys 
tem. The sky sharks can fly above any land 
without restriction. They intervene only if 
the capital city is threatened. Only then 
would they light a major naval encounter. 

Guild of the Merchants 

The Guild of Merchants is a large city 
enclosed in a fortress, on top of a small rock. 
It is major Commercial port where most of the 
guild's business must pass through. The city 
is incredibly wealthy The Thieves" Guild of 
Bdthar has an important branch in the city. 
The population is around 15,000 people. 

A guild of merchants controls Kaharkhand, 
along with most of the trade between the three 
other realms Up to 50 wealthy families own 
this place and create all the laws. 

Guild's Forces: Though it is fortified, the 
city is poorly defended. 

Force: Kabarkhand's Warden BR: 97 
Leader: Merchant Prince Mohamed Abdula- 
7.\2. Zbawat-EhSh'razz XIV, normal man. 
Location: city's walls 
No. Troops: 1,500 (1,500 HD| 

Type: 1,300 arche rs^s wordsmen, 200 artil 
lerists. 

Merchant Guild 

Battle Rating: 153 Av, Speed: 142 Vrd 
Fleet Glass: Ex. Troop Glass: Elite 


36 Sm. Sail Ships 60 HP each 

12 Lg. Sail Ships: 160 HP each. Art illery 

Total Hull Points: 4,000 

Sailors: 600 Marines: 240 (480 HD) 

Men in Fleet: 840 

Marines: F2, AC 4; 50% long bows. 

BR on land 176, 

Ship Loads: 5 marines per ship plus 500- 
3,000 (ld6 x 500) gp worth of merchan 
dise on small vessels. Larger ones carry up 
to 1,500-9,000 (3d6 x 500) gp in goods. 
Commander; the leader has a Leadership 
Factor of 50 , and has maximum training 
with his men. Troops are Neutral in 
majority. 

Events 

For its defense, the guild relies on its trea 
ties of mutual assistance with the three other 
realms. If Kabarkhand is attacked by one of 
the realms, the other two arc compelled to 
come to its rescue If the attacker is an out 
sider, all three realms must unite against the 
invader and crush it, IT two realms ally 
against another, the voting power is in favor 
of the coalition, meaning that they may 
request the help of the guild to transport their 
troops. In exchange for these rights, the guild 
may freely trade and transport any merchan 
dise between the three realms. 

The party's fleet is always denied entrance 
tn the port. Otherwise, the Merchant Guild 
ignores the armada, a s long as they do not 
attack die city or their ships. The guild is 
aware of the presence of the Magic Mists and 
Sometimes use them for trading with other 
worlds. This is a State secret. 

Sky Raiders 

At least once in the game t have the pirates 
attack one of the party's fleets. They operate 
from the asteroids in the Ddthan air space. 
The pirates have a lair that is equivalent to 
Kabarkhand (in appearance and by military 
standards), but called Tortuga. It is said to 
contain hundreds of gp. Only pirate* know 
where it is. If the party decides to attack it, 
they must interrogate prisoners to find its 
location. They have only a 1 % chance per 10 
prisoners of finding a navigator. The naviga 
tor does not willingly reveal the secret, how 
ever, it should not be impossible for the 
players to get the information. 

The pirate lair should contain 2d6xl 00,000 
gp and a treaty signed between them and Gam- 
mar about a possible attack on Belthar. If the 
party manages to bring that back to Bdthar and 
offer their help to deal with the threat* Bdthar 


and the Merchant Guild should then turn 
against Gammar and ally with the party. 

Pirate Fleet 

Battle Rating: 71 Av, Speed: 150 7rd 
Fleet Class: Below Av. 

Troop Glass: Below Av, 

50 Sm. Sail Ships: 80 HP each, Artillery 

Total Hull Points: 4,000 
Pirates; 1,500 : 1,500 HD) 

Pirates: HD 1; AC 7; BR on land 53. 

Ship Loads: 30 pirates, each who can be used 
as sailors or fighters, plus (ld6 x 200) gp 
worth of treasure . 

Commander: the leader has a Leadership 
Factor of 40, and has negligible training 
with his men. Troops are Chaotic in 
majority. 

The Magic Mists 

This area is located opposite the great sea 
spiral, near the breathable limit of the Star 
Kingdoms, It looks like clouds of star dust. 
The gateway ii triggered by the thoughts of 
the characters or commanders in charge of a 
fleet. When the ships reach the other side of 
the fog, they instead appear at the area 
thought of, or desired. In the case of the 
party, the magical effect is distorted by the 
immortals observing the armada. Once the 
party sails across the fog, they appear in the 
Alphatian Sea. in their own world, near 
Alphaks' volcano. 

Aftermath 

Victory Points for Immortals 

Koryis: scores 20 points for each realm that 
the characters ally with. 

Vanya: scores 20 points for each realm the 
party successfully invades. 

Alphaks; scores 20 points for each realm 
the party actually destroys (local army 
reduced more than 80%), 

Jf Koryis wins this chapter, 50% of all 
casualties in the FCs Y armada and allied 
forces, including ships, are restored to life. 
While the fleet is in the Magic Mist, the 
destroyed ships, and their crew, appear first 
as ghosts, then materialize totally. None of 
these crew remember whal happened. 

If Vanya wins, the allied or conquered 
population treat the PCs as heroes and 
demand they become rulers of their lands. 

If Alphaks wins, he scores 20 points more. 
In case of a stalemate, nothing happens. 
Add this chapter's scores to the previous 
totals and note the results for future use. 


24 



The three realms and the guild are the only 
survivors of the ancient war against Alphaks, 
Gammar is the descendant of the faction 
opposed to the evil emperor. The story on 
their bloody war against Alphaks still clearly 
appears in their records and legends. If the 
party invades them, they are given a Holy 
Flask containing some of Alphaks' dried 
blood. Within 10 feet of the flask, Alphaks 
has only a 30% Anti-Magic resistance. The 
pirates are descendants of Alphaks* faction* 
Since the great war, they have lived in the 
asteroids, attacking the other realms on occa 
sional raids. 

If the party allies with any one realm and 
successfully removes the threat against it, 
they agree to send half their (original) fleet 
along with the party They would do so only if 
it is to destroy Alphaks, 

If the party actually occupies a realm (or 
the Merchants Guild}, they may comman 
deer the loser's fleet for an expedition against 
Alphaks. 

If the party defeats the pirates* fleet at least 
once, the Guild agrees to send one third of 
their fleet along with the party's expedition. 







Chapter 4: BACK INTO THE MAELSTROM 


Encounter Setting 

This chapter is divided into three sections. 
The first pari involves the naval conflict 
between the party's arm ad a and Alphaks' 
undead fleet. As soon as the party crosses the 
Magic Mist in the Star Kingdoms. AJphaks 1 
fleet comes out of his mountain to intercept 
the partv Regardless if the party is defeated 
during the ensuing battle, the PCs can 
explore Alphaks' mountain. Read the boxed 
text in section A, and run the battle. Use DM 
Map 4 for this encounter. 

The second part covers the exploration of 
Alphaks mountain, the dungeon below, its 
destruction and the party's return home* 

Finally, the Epilogue determines which 
Immortal wins, along with the party's reward 
or demise. Because of the direct involvement 
of Alphaks in this chapter, neither Kory is nor 
Vanya may intervene directly. 

Encounter Key 

A. The Final Battle? 


Slowly, the star mist clears and you fed the 
familiar pitching of the sea below the 
ships. The fresh salty winds are back, 
swelling the tails. The red sun is tow 
above the horizon , partially hidden 
behind a large conical mountain. From its 
crater, large clouds of gray fumes swirl 
out, slowly drifting west. The sickening 
yet alarmingly familiar smell reminds you 
of the poison over Norwold. 

Suddenly, the look-out signals sails 
coming from the mountain. Silently, black 
ships cut through the waves* forming a 
battle line. Already, the alarm is sounded 
and the crews crank up their artillery* 


Knowing the party crossed the mists back 
to the Alphatian sea* Alphaks summoned the 
fleet of the underworld It is an awesome 
force, made of thousands of undead creatures 
sailing ironclads, large galleys covered with a 
dark metal. Their mission is to destroy the 
party's armada, at any cost. 

At the beginning of the encounter, the 
wind blows from the east at normal strength. 
The party's fleets start the encounter within 3 
hexes of area A, the ironclads, within 3 hexes 
of area R, One fleet occupies 1 full hex in bat  
tle formation Combat occurs when two fleets 
occupy the same hex. 

For movement purposes, each battle round 
is equal to 15 minutes. Divide the average 
movement per round by 12, rounded down, 
The result indicates the numbers of hexes the 
fleet can move in one battle round. Once two 


fleets are engaged in combat, secretly roll 
3d4; the result indicates the length of the 
combat in battle rounds, Resolve combats 
normally according to the Sea Machine rules; 
fleeing or withdrawing units may not attack 
other fleets for the remainder of the day, 

Have the PCs role play part of the battle, 
such as the boarding or the sinking of an iron 
clad during the clash, or a well-executed 
maneuver. The ship the PCs choose to attack 
should contain the fleet commander. If PCs 
accomplish heroic feats, their fleets' BR or 
modifiers in the Sea Machine resolution should 
be accordingly modified. Let the PCs unleash 
all their power or lose the battle as heroes. 

Force; The Dreadnoughts of Death 

Battle Rating: 214 Av* Speed: 18G7rd 
Fleet Class: Elite Troop Class: Elite 

120 Ironclads*: 200 HP each. Artillery Ram. 

Total Hull Points: 24,000 
Undead: 12,000 (21,480 HD) 

Undead per ship: 50 skeletons, 20 zombies, 
15 ghouls, 7 wights, 5 wraiths, 3 spectres* 
BR on land is 156, 

Commander: lich, Leadership Factor: 60. If the 
fleet is divided to match the number of 
enemy fleets, the extra units are com 
manded by druj spirits, with a Leadership of 
45, The training factor does not change, 

(*) Ironclads: Treat the ironclads its Large 
Galleys, except that they have 180-220 Hull 
Points* 180'/round speed* and AC 2* 

Ironclads arc magical ships that are not 
normally available In human worlds. These 
have been summoned from the Sphere of 
Death. Their hulls are covered with plates of 
black metal (AC 2), and enchanted to enable 
the ships to float on a liquid surface. The 
ironclads arc also capable of maneuvering in 
another dimension, or in worlds like the one 
described in the previous chapter. Ii is their 
magical power that also enables them to sail 
at 180 feet per round. 

Undead Strategy 

Thrir orders are to intercept and engage 
enemy vessels* All undead fleets are aware of 
die reefs surrounding the mountain and try to 
trap die opponents in them. Each ship crossing 
a reef hex has a 60% chance of being stranded. 
Affected ships remain immobile until towed 
and properly repaired. Undead fleets may 
attack those ships with a ¦+ 20 BR bonus. Allow 
a chance (roll using Intelligence, or 95 % chance 
if a player indicates his character is observing 
the sea} for the party to spot the reefs. 

Fatigue* routs, and the poison Fog blowing 


westerly do not affect the undead. If a party's 
fleet withdraws or attempts to flee, the iron 
clads pursue it until one of the two fleets is 
destroyed* Undead do not take prisoners, 
seize enemy vessels, or recover any of their 
own losses in ships or creatures. Human 
fleets fighting in the poison fog fight with a 
-20 BR penalty* Ships that arc stranded there 
for more than a day are destroyed. 

If an ironclad squadron is defeated, treat 
all the undead on board captured ships or 
wrecks as destroyed, Captured ships may be 
used as described in the Sea Machine system, 
with a normal number of rowers, Defeated 
squadrons withdraw' to the underground port 
to replace their casualties in creatures (see 
area 6 below) which takes 2d4 hours* and 
then return to combat. 

Considering the superior strength of the 
undead hordes, die re is little chance the par 
ty's armada will survive. However, the more 
damage the PCs and their fleets inflict on the 
Ironclads, the more XPs the party should get. 
In any case, allow the party to survive by hid 
ing among wrecks or floating debris, until 
they art washed ashore AJphaks' mountain. 
At the end of the battle* the ironclads sail 
back behind the mountain where the party 
cannot see them (see area 2 in section B). 

If the party manages to destroy the undead 
fleet* then they may freely land on the moun 
tain shores. If the players decide to return to 
Norwold instead, remind them the poison 
mist is blowing in that direction and that it 
must be neutralized. If that is not enough to 
convince them. Alphaks causes the poison fog 
to drift toward the FC's fleets* leaving them 
only the option of securing their ships and 
crews behind the isle, near area 2, Koryis' 
face could also appear among the clouds tell 
ing the PCs that if they go further in that 
direction, their men will perish in the fog, 
and all hope will be lost for Norwold 

B* The Mountain of Death 

1. Alphaks' Mountain 

This dry rocky mountain is bare of vegeta- i 
rion. A narrow path leaves the shore, 
rounding the base of the crater. There is 
no visible activity. 


Use DM Map 5 for this encounter Random 
encounters may occur anywhere on the surface 
of the mountain. Studying the tracks in the dirt 
should reveal a small path to area 4. Inside the 
dungeon , random encounters may only occur in 
area 4, 6 t and 9. Random encounters occur once 
every hour with a roll of 1-2 on a d6. 


26 





Chapter 4: BACK INTO THE MAELSTROM 


2, The Secret Gate 

A narrow ledge goes down to the water 
level, where a large secret passage connects 
with the undcad's underground port. The 
large portal appears as a rocky cliff, however, 
the stone feels chilly there. It can only be 
opened with a knock spell, or by applying at 
least 70 points of Strength, 

When the gate is opened, read the follow 
ing to the players: 


A fair portion of the doors remains 
beneath the surface oF the water, A foul 
rotting smell blows out of the cavern pas 
sage extending beyond, into the darkness. 
The vauli is so high it would allow the pas 
sage of a large ship. 


Opening the secret gate has an 80% 
chance of alerting its guardian, a dragon tur 
tle (see area 7). In that case the party has no 
chance of surprising it when enters that area. 

3. The Crater 


You have reached the ridge of die mountain, 
and a vast gloomy crater now extends 
below. From a blade opening at the bottom, 
large swirls of stinking fumes blow oul into 
the sky obscuring your vision. 


The fumes are the same ones that are poi 
soning Norwood. The party discovers this 
immediately. For every hour the party mem 
bers stay in the fumes, each loses 1 point of 
Constitution (recoverable after a day of rest, 
Or with a neutralize poison spell). 

If the party climbs/flics down into the black 
opening, they reach area 9. The Mouth of 
Death. Otherwise, allow the party to find the 
entrance, 

4. The Entrance 


A rough round entrance opens on a large 
stairwell descending into darkness. Above 
the opening is a human-size skull carved 
into the mountain stone. Its eves are glow 
ing red and thin fumes stream from its 
mouth. 


The head is a trap that can be deactivated 
with a dispel magic spell Otherwise, a Ifldfi 
fireball blows up in the entrance, every two 
rounds, as long as a living creature remains at 
less than 30 feci from the entrance. Beyond the 
entrance are stairs leading down to area 5. 

If not magically dispelled, the skull's eyes 
enable Alphaks to observe the passage, at any 


Lime of day If Alphaks lost die batLlc, he is 
aware of the party's presence on this isle, 
Otherwise, he is not looking. He can cast any 
spell, one per round, directly from area li, 
against anyone approaching, 

5, The Charnel Pit 


The stairs ahruptly end at the center of a 
large square room , 40 feet away from an exit 
on the west side. The floor is a creeping mass 
of rotting members, heads, and other fleshy 
or bony material that beggars human 
description. The dreadful stench nearly pre 
vents anyone from breathing. Urmarncable 
horrors already crawl out, stretching their 
arms and clawing in your direction. 


The pit contains 640 zombies, 128 ghouls, 
6 wraiths, and one spectre, all stacked on the 
floor of this room. They attack anyone 
attempting to cross the room. The spectre 
and the wraiths only attack characters flying 
above the zombies. 

Each lU-foot-square area one character 
crosses, 10 zombies and 2 ghouls attempt to 
crawl over the trespasser. Unless they are fly 
ing, characters cannot move more fhan 1 
square each round, Furthermore, only one 
character at a time can enter one square 
because of the creeping crowd of undead. 
The zombies and ghouls do not pursue Jiving 
creatures beyond the secret door leading to 
area 6, however, the wraiths and the spectre 
will. No turning attempts work in this room, 

A small secret passage cm the east wall con 
nects into area 9a. It opens with a push. 

6. The Underground Port 


A huge cavern extends west of your loca 
tion, as far as you can see in the semi- 
darkness. It appears to be a huge port, with 
iron ships, stone piers and a dark unrippled 
water. A 20-foot-wide passage rounds the 
cavern, climbing above a large opening on 
the east side. Spheres of feeble blue light 
hang from the vault above the water. 


The spheres arc continual lights. This area 
is the dreadnoughts 1 base. If the party 
deal rayed the undead fleet, only Id4 iron 
clads should still be there. Otherwise, all the 
ironclads that survived the naval battle are at 
their piers. The undead are returned to the 
vortex in area 9 after each battle. 

If Alphaks is aware of the party's presence, 
two apparitions attack them. One remains 
hidden in the closest ship until the party 
thinks they are dealing with only one crea 


ture. A secret portal in the northeast comer 
connects with area 9a. 

6a. Row Boat 

This simple craft is used to check the hulls 
of the dreadnoughts after combat. The party 
may use it to explore the passage to area 7. 

6b. The Upper Gallery 

The passage climbs up above the canal to 
area 7, Overlooking the port. Several slits 
open on the east wall, enabling an observa 
tion of the canal to area 7, The False Island. 

6c, The Mechanism 

A large crank extends from the wall. It is 
used to open or close the portcullis in area 7, 
The False Island. Cranking up the portcullis 
alerts the dragon turtle, if it has not been 
destroyed yet, It swims into the port and 
attempts to surprise the party. If someone 
pays attention to ripples in the water, he 
notices the dragon turtle. 

7. The False Island 


This round cavern is filled with a dark and 
calm water The middle is occupied by two 
small islands A huge portcullis blocks the 
passage on the opposite side of the cavern. 


The two islands are the head and the back of 
a dragon turtle. It immediately attacks those 
climbing on it or tampering with the portcullis 
or the seem panel (area 8), The mechanism to 
open the portcullis is located in area 6c. 

A 12-foot-wide secret panel opens on area 
8, on the north side of the cavern. The water 
near the portal is shallow and the PCs may 
brace against the rails beneath the water, to 
push the portal open. They need a combined 
Strength of 70 or better to push it open. If the 
parry examines the rails, they also see a thick 
steel chain and a cart similar to those used to 
pull ships onto dry docks. 

The passage to the east of the cavern con 
nects with area 2 t The Secret Gate. 

8. The Dry Dock 


The floor in this roughly rectangular area is 
slight dy slan ted The mu them half is covered 
with water. The mom contains nothing 
more than a set of rails and a thick metal 
chain extending from the northern wall 
down to the other side, under the water. 


The rails extend into area 7, through a 
small opening under the southern secret 
panel. It may be pushed open with a com 
bined Strength of 50 or more 


27 









Chapter 4: BACK INTO THE MAELSTROM 


The rails are used to haul the ironclads into 
and oxii of the vortex m area 9, The cart In 
area 7 is pulled up the rails by the chains from 
a mechanism located in area 9a The secret 
panel m area 9 may be opened like ihe south 
ern one, however, pushing characters must 
roll a Dexterity check to avoid falling into the 
vortex as the panel opens. 

9, The Mouth of Death 


This appears to be the bottom of the 
mountain's crater. The mouth of the vol 
cano is nothing more than an opening into 
oblivion. There is no lava, but an aura of 
cold air with thick fumes blowing out. 
The opening is over 200 feet in diame 
ter and its walk arc coated with a shining 
black ooze crawling with disgusting stalks 
and tentacles. There are three narrow 
ledges on the west, north, and east sides. 
There are no other exits. 


Because of the fumes, eyesight is limited to 
50 feet. The opening is a vortex into the 
Sphere of Death. Anyone entering that world 
is considered lost for the remainder of this 
adventure. Touching the slimy ebony ecto 
plasm causes the loss of one level of experi 
ence per round. The ooze is capable of 
creating Idfi stalks per round {each lasts Id4 
rounds^. They attack (as 10HD creatures) 
any living flesh within 10 feet of (he hole, or 
20 feet above the opening. When they hit a 
character, he must roll a Strength check to 
avoid being pulled ld20 feet below, into the 
ectoplasm. A character dinging to the slime, 
trying to climb back to the ledge, is dragged 
15 (eel deeper per round until he climbs out r 
is rescued, or totally drained of energy, 

The vortex cannot be closed unless the 
party tampers with the artifact in area 11, 
The Hourglass of Time. 

Ledge 9a, 

The mechanism opening the two secret 
portals to area 7, and controlling the dry duck 
rails is located on this ledge. When the portals 
are opened, and if the dragon turtle has not 
been destroyed, it crawls up the rails and uses 
its breath attacks against the party. It then 
retreats back to area 7, 

Ledge 9b. 

A secret passage in the north wall connects 
with area If), The Corridor of Death. It opens 
with simple pressure. 

The corridor beyond is trapped with a 
strong permanent magical wind. Any charac 
ter caught in front of the entrance must roll 
less than his Strength or be blown into the 


ooze, 2d20 feet below into the vortex. Follow 
ing the heaviest character in the party and 
holding on a rope enables die party to reach 
the other end safely. 

Ledge 9c. 

This ledge is trapped with a large spring 
device. Anyone stepping on it must roll less 
than his Dexterity or be thrown into tire vor 
tex, If the character has no flying abilities or 
was not attached to a rope # he plummets 
down into the Sphere of Death, 

10, The Corridor qf Death 


You are standing on a narrow ledge, 
approximately 15 feet above a thick fog, at 
the beginni ng of a large tube-like hallway. 
Ten feet ahead of you, levitating in mid 
air is a square glowing slab of unidentifia 
ble material, Beyond, the fog rises up to 
the circular vault, blocking any sight. 


Any magic used here has only a J % chance 
of functioning per level of the caster within 
this area. This does not include magic items. 

There are seven such floating squares across 
the fog Tb jump on each of them and reach the 
other side of the passage, each character must 
roll under his Dexterity. Failure means the char 
acter falls into the pit below. It is filled with ecto 
plasm from the vortex. Anyone who falls into 
the pit and fails a Strength check, is sucked into 
a chute connected to die vortex in area 9, The 
next round, the victim is allowed a second 
Strength check at the other end of the chute to 
crawl back up to areas 9a or 9b. Climbing up 
takes, another round. 

Only one character at a time may step an a 
square. The square levitates for one more 
round when someone stands on it, after 
which it stans sinking. The square reaches 
the bottom of the pit after 3 rounds Unoccu 
pied squares return to their original location. 

At the other end of the passage is a huge 
stone hand sticking out of the wall, with a 
round black dot on its palm. It radiates a per 
manent silence spell that includes the last 
floating square. Only characters who stand 
on the hand see the dot. Those who observe it 
for more than a round apparently #i faint" (no 
save) and are sent into area 11 in astral form. 
Secretly inform involved players what hap 
pened. Those who step on the dot are tele 
ported with their gear into area 11. The 
teleportation only works one way. 

1 1- The Hourglass of Time 

Read the following to the players whose 
characters are in astral form, 


You see the rest of the parry standing on a 
similar hand, but faring the wall instead of 
the room. On the opposite side stands a 10- 
foot-tall hourglass with white sand (lowing 
down and turning blade at the bottom. Two 
large windows to the sides of the room over 
look the sea 3,000 feet below, 

hi the center of the room stands an old 
man smiling at you: "Welcome, mortals? 
Finally, you have reached the end of your epic 
journey "You have served my purposes well 
Now it ia time for your reward, at last! 1 * 


The characters in astral form appear as 
small spheres of light levitating in the room. 
They can only communicate mentally 
between themselves. The other characters 
are unaware of their true nature. The DM 
must be careful not to betray the identity of 
the spheres. Characters in astral form may 
attack and cast spells against Alphaks nor 
mally the attacks performed from the Astral 
Plane. They are otherwise totally immaterial. 

Vanya originally gave the hourglass to 
Alphaks. 1l is a powerful artifact ahle to keep the 
large vortex open. Only Vanya can destroy it. If 
the party causes the sand to flow from black to 
white (by turning the hourglass upside down or 
levitating the sand up), the vortex is inverted 
and the island self-destructs 20 melee rounds 
from this point. The room then shudders and 
starts to crumble. The characters may step out 
through one of the magical mirrors (the window 
illusions) on the side walls to the sea near the 
mountain (see encounter 12). It lakes 50 points 
of Strength or powerful magic to move the 
hourglass. 

The man in the room is Alphaks 7 mortal 
form, a roaring demon in human shape. See the 
New Monsters section about the creatures, II 
the party refuses to join him for the cause of 
Chaos, he turns into a roaring demon and 
attacks die party (in physical and astral forms'). 
Alphaks may cast any spell described in the 
rules up to the limits of his Mind Power (see 
New Monsters section). For each round the 
hourglass is inverted, Alphaks takes 5 points of 
damage. If he is reduced to 1/4 his original hit 
points, he fdeporrs back into the Sphere of 
Entropy. Alphaks takes full damage from the 
sword of demon slaying and his anti-magic is 
reduced to 30% within 30 feci from the Holy 
Flask (the party' may have acquired these items 
earlier in the adventure). 

Once Alphaks has fled, the characters in 
astral form are returned to their bodies 
remaining on the hand in area 10. They can 
now teleport back into room 11 in physical 
form. 


28 






EPILOGUE 


12* Rack Into the Maelstrom 

Once the party steps out through one of t he 
magical mirrors or area J1* read the follow 
ing: 


\bu ding to debris floating in the sea 
from the last battle. A tremendous earth 
quake shakes the mountain and it sud 
denly sinks into a huge maelstrom. In 
horror, you realize you are being dragged 
into it* Suddenly* e^ i cryThing stops in a 
blinding flash. The sea is calm, and the 
mountain is gone. Several hundred feel 
from your location* a ship bearing the col 
ors of Qeddhar slowly approaches 


The hourglass destroyed the island (along 
with any surviving fleet) and has returned to 
Vanya. In order to save the party, she trapped 
them in a short time warp that brought the 
party back to when the adventure started, 
except that Alphaks is banished from this 
plane. No one besides the party will ever 
know what has actually happened, Norwold 
is as prosperous as usual and the party's 
armada (and other forces) are back safely in 
their respective parts, since the expedition 
never occurred 1 

For the same reasons, the Baron Norlan 
does not know the pany yet, and drops them 
in a port of their choice after he saves them 
from the cold northern sea Baron Norlan is 
on his way lo Alphatia to meet Marietta* If 
the party manages to convince him forte way 
or another) to leave the princess and return to 
Farend, they should gain an extra bonus in 
XP. Alphaks plan b then totally foiled and the 
party has accomplished their epic mission* 

This completes the underworld's prophecy 
that the pany will return home, alone and on 
a foreign ship... 


C, Epilogue 

If Alphaks fled hb mountain or has been 
destroyed, Koryis scores 20 victory points 
(and Alphaks automatically loses). 

If the party destroyed the undead fleet dur 
ing the naval battle, Vanya scores 20 points 

If Alphaks defeats the party in the 
dungeon, he scores 40 points. 

Add up all the victory points the immortals 
scored in this adventure to determine which 
one has the highest total* Then choose the fol 
lowing corresponding entry* 

Koryis: Brings back to life all dead charac 
ters and those who fell into the Sphere of 
Entropy* and bestows upon the characters' 
dominions an unprecedented prosperity 
(treat as Ideal conditions for 10 years, unless 
the character mismanages his dominion), 
Each party members gams 20,000 XP and, if 
desired. Koryis contacts all the Lawful char 
acters in the party and indicates to them that 
they may start their quest lo Immortality for 
the Sphere of Thought. 


New Monster 

Roaring Demon 

Armor Glass; -5 

Hit Dice: 16 ********* 

Alphaks hp: 110 

Power Paints: ISO 

Move: 60* (20') 

Flying: 15(> J (50 # ) 

Attacks: 1 sword/1 whip at + 3 

Damage; 1 -10 -h 3/1-2 + 3 or special 

No Appearing: 1/fUnique)* 

Save As: MU 16/(MU 36)* 

Anti-Magic: 80% within 5 feet 

Morale: 12 

Alignment: Chaotic 

XP Value: U f 750/(15,000) 

* Alphaks 1 special statistics. 

The roaring demon, Alphaks, is a creature of 
the Sphere of Death. Upon attaining his tempo 
rality* .Alphaks became such a demon in addi 
tion to retaining hb magic-user abilities, 
.Alphaks is one of his many names. This fear 
some demon has a human body, though large 
(12 feet rail in demon form). Sharp horns pro 
trude one foot from either side of its forehead r 
and huge leathery Irai wings rise from its back. 

Mind Power: All of the demon's special 
powers are created via its Mind Power This 
includes the capacity to create spell-like effects 
from mental abilities. Only one effect per round 
can be so created, even while the demon is physi 
cally attacked or is moving. Mind power requires 
the use of power points (PP) that can only be 
restored by rest (never magically), up to I point 
per turn when the demon sleeps. .Alphaks can 
cast any spdl (other than those powers specifi- 

29 


Vanya: Each character gains 20,000 XP 
and is granted 1 extra ability point* Any lost 
levels are immediately restored. A messenger 
may contact them and let them know Vanya 
also grants them a divine force they may call 
upon during any war, The force is available 
only once per character and contains 50 
dragons from the Wyrmstecih range (BR = 
5113). Vanya may contact the Neutral charac 
ters in the party and indicate that they may 
start their quest to Immortality for the Sphere 
of Time, 

Alphaks: Surviving characters, if any* 
gain only the XP generated during the 
adventure Norwold U ravaged, and weak 
ened to the point all the dominions become 
rebellious Taking advantage of this sudden 
weakness* Thy at is invades Norwold* 
Another party may be created to deal with 
Alphaks during another quest* in another 
world, at another time. 


tally described for demons) at 36th level of 
magic-use, but that costs him double the spell 
level in PP (for example, a lire ball would cost 
him 6 PP). 

The demon has the following abilities: 
speak to any living or non-living creature (1 
PP); control undcad as a 32 HD undead* (1 
PP/HD); 120 infravision; entcr/exit astral 
and ethereal planes 1/day (9 PP); regenerate 
I hp per hour (1 PP/hp); immune to all mind 
reading, disease, aging, death rays* and 
energy drains; and teleport without errors 
(within the prime material plane, GPP; or 
from or back to its outer plane, 9PP)* (*) 
Alphks may control his undead servants 
within a 100 mile radius. 

The demon does not need air* water* or 
food to survive since it is an immortal crea 
ture. Only magical weapons with a + 2 bonus 
or better can affect it. Anytime dice is rolled 
for damage against it, the result is always the 
lowest possible score. For example, on 2d4, 
the damage is automatically limited to 2 
points* Holy water thrown on a demon 
enrages it to the point it charges the culprit. 

Treat Alphaks' physical abilities as St 18* 
Id 20* Wi 15, Dx 17* Co 18* Ch 19/0. To mor 
tals, the roaring demon appears loathsome, 
except if it chooses lo assume a fomn more 
attractive to humans All physical attacks 
should reflect the strength of the demon ( + 3 
to hit and to damage). 

Alphaks is a reasonable creature who 
rarely attacks by surprise* preferring to allow 
the victims a chance to surrender (totally and 
unconditionally, of course), If the victim does 



NEW VESSEL 



not surrender, Alp links usually roars u> sum- 
mon its two special weapons (7 power 
points), a Two-handed a word of slicing + 5. 

+ 10 vs. humans, and a whip of dminingw'nh 
the same bonuses. Both weapons appear in 
the demon's hands. If the demon drops them, 
they vanish, returning to die demon's plane. 
The demon can use both weapons one- 
handed at the same time. 

If Alphaks is "killed" its body dissolves and 
its Chaotic soul returns to the Sphere of Death. 
If the demon survives or if it flees to its plane, 
several weeks later it mercilessly stalks the party 
until they are all dead or bound to its will, If this 
happens, Alphaka becomes a Celestial, 


Fhascships (** Sky sharks") 


Miles/Day: 70 
Feet/Round; 120 
Crew: G men 
Rowers: none 
Marines: none 
Sp, Ability: phasing 


Hu!) Points; 40-60 
Armor Glass; B (or NA) 
Cargo Hold: 10,000 cu 
Artillery: 2 balhstas 
Ramming: none 
Propulsion: Magic 


The phaseship has the approximate shape 
of a shark, with large fms at the rear and 
below, and a bent tube extending Emm the 
top. It averages 40-60 feet long. 

This vessel is able to phase out of the prime 
material plane, thus becoming invisible to nor 
mal ships, and immune to normal physical con 
tacts. The hull of the ship is permanently 
endiantedfor dial effect. If can remain in phase 
for 6 hours per day. The bane of the shi ps is die 
warp wood spell which destroys die ability to 
phase oue (Save vs. Spell as FlG), A dispel 
magic cast at the time the ship phases oui can 
cels that ability for one round. 

Special permanent fly spells cast on its bow 
enable the skyshark to maneuver in the sky. 
Three mcuil plates with powerful levitation 
abilities are also located under the ship. This 
type of vessel is unable to maneuver in a liq 
uid environment (unless phased oul). A dis 
pel magic cast on the bow would cause the 
vessel to drift for one round, The enchant 
ments required to create such vessels are not 
available to player characters 

To attack, the skyshark must phase back 
into the prime material plane. Round port 
holes open at the front, enabling two heavy 
baUistas to fire against enemy vessels. Treat 
ihem as catapults except that javelin tips are 
enchantment to explode when they hit a hard 
surface, inflicting 5d6 HP of damage. 


The skyshark *s commander sits in a small 
turret fitted with a long narrow tube able to 
penetrate the prime material plane while the 
ship is phased out. The commander uses it to 
observe potential victims without being spotted. 
Some commanders will cast an invisibility spell 
on the tube. It may be retracted into the vessel. 

The crew are easily recognizable with their 
black leather jackets, flat caps, and harsh Gam- 
marian accent. Five crewmen arc in charge of 
the security on board, artillery pieces, on con 
trolling the shjp*s speed and direction. For this 
type of vessel, the standard crew b: 
t commander, 10th level magic-user 
5 crewmen {artillerist, sailors, marines) 

Up to 5 extra passengers or prisoners may 
huddle in the back of the ship, over and above 
the 10,000 cn capacity of the cargo hold. 

Gammer hAs 3 squadrons of 3 phaseships, 
called "shark-packs" Their usual tactic is to spot 
a target with a crystal ball and ambush it. The)' 
concentrate their fire on one ship for one or two 
rounds, and then phase out To withdraw, ignor 
ing the battle result. It Lakes one full round to 
phase in or out. In a main battle, shark-packs 
never capture ships or prisoners Commanders 
usually blow up their disabled skyshark to avoid 
their capture. 

Occasionally, a londv "shark** on a spy 
mission may be encountered. They are 
known to attack isolated merchant vessels* 

If a shark-pack is ever committed against 
another fleet in a Sea Machine combat, the 
sky-sharks cannot inflict more than 10 times 
their value in Hull Points to the losing fleet. 
Even if die shark-pack wins the combat, 
chances arc it will be totally destroyed as a 
result of normal naval combat attritions. 


Special thanks to Frank Menirar 
for the Boating Demon 


30 



PREROLLED FLEETS 


Task Force One: 

Ocean send Combat Squadron 

Battle Racing: 102 Av. Speed: 127Vrd 

Fleet Class: Good Troop Class: Good 

4 Lg, Galleys: 120 HP each, Artillery Ram. 

5 Sm. Galleys: 80 HP each, Ram. 

10 Lg. Sail Ships: 150 HP each 

Total Hull Points; 2,380 
Marines: 350 (700 HD) 

Sailors: 200 Rowers: 1,020 

Men in Fleet: 1,570 

Marines: 20% long bow, level 2, AC4; BR 
on land is 103 r may be mounted (sec Fleet 
Four. 

Sail Ships: carry supplies, equipment and 5 
marines each. 

Commander: if not a PC, the leader has a 
Leadership Factor of 45, and has trained 5 
weeks with his men. 

Task Force Two: 

Royal Assault Squadron 

Battle Rating: 180 Av. Speed: 1337rd 
Fleet Class: Excellent Troop Class: Elite 

1 War Galley: 150 HP each. Artillery Ram. 

6 Lg. Galleys; 130 HP each. Artillery Ram, 
15 Sm. Galleys: 80 HP each, Artillery Ram, 

2 Troop Transports: 140 HP each. Artillery 

Total Hull Points: 2,411) 

Marines; 875 (1,750 HD) 

Sailors: 340 Rowers: 2,280 

Men in Fleet: 3,495 

Marines- 20% long bow, level 2, AC4, BR 
on land 166 

Thoop Transports; carry 200 level 2 elves, 
100% longbow, spell casting, AC4. They 
are part of the marine force. 

Commander: if not a PC, the leader has a 
Leadership Factor of 60, and has trained 
10 weeks with his men. 


Task Force Three: 

Norwold Invasion Squadron 

Battle Rating: 106 Av, Speed 1507rd 
Fleet Class: Good Troop Class: Good 

30 Longships; 70 HP each 

Total Hull Points: 2 ; 100 
Seamen: 2,250 (6,750 HD) 

Men in Fleet; 2,250 

Seamen: may be used indifferently as 
marines and rowers; AC6. 3rd level bar 
barian fighters. BR on land 96* 
Commander: if not a PC, the leader has a 
Leadership Factor of 65, and has trained 1 
week with his men 

Task Force Four: 

Fleet Support Squadron 

Battle Rating: 105 Av. Speed: 1507rd 
Fleet Class; Good Troop Class: Average 

15 Sm. Galleys: JOG HP each. Artillery Ram. 
30 Sm. Sail Ships; 90 HP each, Artillery 

Total Hull Points: 4,200 
Seamen; 1,350 (1,350 HD) 

Men in Fleet: 1,350 

Seamen: level 1 lighters, AG6, BR on land 
77. Each galky carries 70 seamen, 60 as 
rowers, 10 as sailors. They are all capable 
of fighting. 

Sail Ships; carry supplies, weapons, 3(KJ light 
war horses and cavalry equipment, 10 
seamen on each ship, a 30,000 gp fond for 
purchases, hiring, repairs, port taxes. 
Commander: if not a PC, the leader has a 
Leadership Factor of 45, and lias trained 5 
weeks with his men. 


31 



PREROLLED CHARACTERS 


If your players do no: have high-level char 
acters, you may use the prerolled characters. 
Encourage the players to add personaJity to 
these descriptions. Only the minimum equip 
ment anti armor has been listed for these 
characters. Make sure that each has the fol 
lowing: 

500,000 gp in gems, jewelry or coins 

6-12 potions 

1-3 magical rings 

2*5 miscellaneous magic items 

l -4 loyal henchmen (it the player w ants t hem) 

When necessary, use dice to determine how 
many of the above items a character has, A 
random roll on the magic items list in the 
D&D 3 Basic, Expert, or Companion rules 
should determine the extra magical equip 
ment. 

Fergus the Justifier 


Geoffrey has spent most of his career help 
ing the poor and the sick in his native 
Heldann Freeholds. Because of the constant 
challenge and growing evil, he left his ances 
tral home for the new lands of Norwuld, He 
has been summoned by King Ericall to join 
the battle Heel. 

Geoffrey is a serious, intense character. An 
awesome force to behold in battle, he is capa 
ble of great tenderness and kindness in times 
of peace. He spends much time quietly medi 
tating by himself, 

Weston the Tall 

Neutral 28th level thief 


Strength 

12 

Dexterity 

16 

Intelligence 

7 

Constitution 

9 

Wisdom 

16 

Charisma 

15 

Armor Glass 

0 

Hit Points 

70 


Lawful 28th level paladin 


Strength 

15 

Intelligence 

7 

Wisdom 

13 


Dexrerity 

17 

Constitution 

14 

Charisma 

10 


Weapons: sword + 3; two daggers + 2; king 
bow + 2\ 20 + / arrows 
Armor: leather armor + 3; ring of protection 
+ 2 

Equipment: ring of spell turning 


Armor Glass *5 Hit Points 95 

Weapons; sword * 3; longbow + 2; 20 

arrows + 1 

Armor: plate mail + 3; shield + 2 

Equipment: Dying carpet 

Spells; 3 level 1, 3 level 2, 3 level 3, 2 level 4 

Fergus h a wandering warrior from the 
kingdom ofVesdand. He has traveled most of 
the civilized lands, and has made a substan 
tial fortune. He established h"s own barony in 
the Great Land Rush, and swore fealty to 
Geoffrey's church. After Geoffrey received 
an urgent summons from the king, Fergus 
decided to leave his barony in the hands of his 
capable seneschal, and join Geoffrey 

Geoffrey of Heldann 


Weston the tali is a well-traveled adven 
turer He has seen most cities and lands in the 
civilized world. He ha$ a habit of arriving in a 
new area with a full purse and high expecta 
tions, only to leave a month or two later, just 
ahead of a pack of city guards and irate mer 
chants. He hasn't been quite so successful 
running a dominion either, but his purse is 
still full and the locals aren't ready to hang 
him yet. 

Quillan Elm-Grower 

Lawful 10th level df 


Strength 

10 

Dexterity 

18 

Intelligence 

13 

Constitution 

11 

Wisdom 

n 

Charisma 

9 

Armor Class 

-8 

Edit Points 

31 


Lawful 28th level cleric 


Strength 

10 

Dexterity 

11 

Intelligence 

10 

Constitution 

17 

Wisdom 

15 

Charisma 

9 

Armor Clasa 

*4 

Hit Points 

85 


Weapons; mace + 5, +5 vs, undead 
Armor plate mail + 3: shield + 3 
Equipment; scarab of protection 
Spells: 8 level 1.8 level 2 f 7 level 3, 7 level 4, 7 
level 5, 6 level 6, 5 level 7 


Weapons: sword * 2; longbow + J; .10 
arrows + 2 ; 5 arrows + 4 
Armor: chain mail + 4; shield + 3; ring of 
protection +2 

Equipment: elven cloak and boots 
XP: 2,800,000 

Spells: 5 level 1,4 level 2, 3 level 3, 2 level 4, 1 
level 5 

Quillan, originally from the forest of 
Alfheim. came to Norwuld looking for excite* 
ment and his nonhem kinfolk. He has suc 


cessfully accomplished all he set to, and has 
carved himself a niche in one of the northern 
elven communities. He has returned to 
human lands from time to time and occasion 
ally carries important messages to the king of 
Norwold. He also keeps in touch with his 
human friends, and has become especially 
interested in the advanced combat techniques 
his friends have developed. 

Brogahn of the Steppes 

Lawful 28th level knight 


Strength 15 Dexterity U 

Intelligence 9 Constitution 16 

Wisdom \ 5 Charisma 

Armor Class -4 Hit Points 90 


Weapons: war hammer +3; short hnw + 1; 

10 arrows + 2 t dagger + 1 
Armor: plate mail + f; shield +2 
Equ i p me n t ring of telekin csi$ 

Brogahn is an imposing figure with broad 
shoulders, n scowling face* and a huge black 
beard, When he realized that the warlike 
council of lus native Ethengar Khanate was 
beginning to view him as a threat, Brogahn 
set out for Norwold. He has found that carv 
ing a barony out of the wilderness is difficult, 
but he prizes his relative independence. Curi 
osity rather than fealty has brought him to the 
court of King Ericall. 


Claransa the Seer 


Lawful 28th levd 

magic-user 


Strength 

13 

Dexterity 

U 

Intelligence 

17 

Constitution 

14 

Wisdom 

n 

Charisma 

U 

Armor Class 

5 

Hit Points 

50 


Weapons: i wo daggers 4 4; staff of wizardry 
Armor: ring of protection + 2; displacer 
cloak 

Equipment: ring of spell storing 
Spells: 8 levd I r 8 levd 2* 7 level 3, 6 levd 4. 6 
level 5, 6 level 6, 6 level 7, 5 levd 8, 4 level 9 

Claransa wasted no time setting up a per 
sonal library and laboratory once settled En 
Norwold. Her responsibilities as a wizard 
and administrator have kept her busy since 
the founding of her new home. Even so, when 
the king summoned, she left at once. Besides. 
Clarama secretly misses the adventuring life. 


32 






DIMENSIONAL GUIDE 
TO THE 

STAR KINGDOMS 


SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE 

S9 * 1965 TSR lire. AH Rights Reserved, Printed in U.S A, I^Sj 


Altitude 


Side View 


Sc<*j£;,1 he* 100 miles 


X11 











* 1985 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 


NAVAL COMBAT RESULT TABLE 




Extra 


Difference 

Ship Damage 

Casualties 

Fatigue 


W:L 

W:L 

WiL 

1-8 

0:57* 

_ 

N:N 

9-15 

0:10% 

- 

IS:N 

16-24 

5% :15% 

0:10% 

M:M 

25-30 

5%:20% 

0:20% 

M:M 

31-38 

5%:25% 

L/2X:20% 

M:S 

39-50 

10%:30% 

t/2X:30% 

M:S 

51-63 

10%;35% 

X:40% 

N:NF 

64-BO 

15%:40% 

0:30% 

N:NF 

81-90 

1570:50% 

X:50% 

N:MF 

91-100 

20%:60% 

X;60% 

M:MF 

101-120 

20%:70% 

1/2X:50% 

M:5F 

121-150 

25%:80% 

0:30% 

N:SF 

151 + 

25%:90% 

1/2X:70% 

N:SU 


W; Winner L: Loser 

% = The percent casualties, in Hull Points for Ships. Sn HD or Levels for creatures. 

X.*feX c The winner suffers the same amount or i/2 the loser s casualties (in HD/levels). 
M ' The force is not fatigued. 

M - The force Is moderately fatigued. 

S = The force Is seriously fatigued. 

F - The force flees to Its original port or to a safe place. 

£1 * Remaining ships surrender to winner. 






COMBINED MONSTERS STATISTICS CHART 


name 

Apparition* 

Beholder, Giant 

Cloud GianhHuge 
Dolphin 

Dragon, Blue 

AC 

0 

-4.3.2 

4 

5 

0 

HD 

10*** 

88(7*) 

104* 

3* 

9** 

hp 

45 

400 

468 

14 

40 

AT 

2 

1 

1 

1 

3 

D 

3-8/34 

664 

24d6 

28 

Special 

MV 

!80'(60') 
60'(20') 
240'(80') 
180'(60') 
90'(30') 
240 (80') 

AL THACO 

C 10 

C 1 

rs 2 

L 17 

N 11 

BOOK 

Comp. 

Comp. 

XJC. 

Comp. 

Exp. 

SA 

Yes 

Yes 

Yes 

No 

Yes 

SD 

Yes 

Yes 

No 

No 

No 

Dragon. White 

1 

15**** 

120 

6 

Special 

15G'(50') 
360'(120') 

N 

6 

Comp, 

Yes 

No 

Dragon Turtle 

2 

30* 

240 

3 

1-8/1 *8/10-60 

30'{10') 
90 r (30 r ) 

C 

2 

Comp. 

Yes 

No 

Dru]** 

Htt 

14**** 

63 

1(4) 

Special 

90'(30') 

c 

8 

Comp. 

Yes 

Yes 

Ghost** 

2 

14**** 

63 

2 

Special 

90'{30'} 

Van 

8 

Comp. 

Yes 

Yes 

Ghoul 

6 

2* 

9 

3 

1-3/1-3/1-3 

90'(30') 

C 

18 

Basic 

Yes 

Yes 

Giant Rock 

0 

36 

162 

3 

3*18/3-18/8-48 

480'{16Q') 

L 

2 

Exp, 

No 

No 

Hippogriff 

5 

3 + 1 

15 

3 

1-6/1-6/MO 

180'(60') 
360'(120') 

N 

16 

Exp. 

No 

No 

Hydra. Giant 

5 

96 

768 

6 

4 -40 x 6 

24Q'(8Q') 

C 

2 

X./C 

Yes 

No 

Killer Whale 

6 

6 

27 

1 

2-20 

240'(80') 

N 

14 

Comp. 

No 

No 

Lich* 

0 

30 

180 

1 

Special 

90'(30') 

C 

2 

Mast, 

Yes 

Yes 

Zzonga-Eater 

9 

1/2 

2 

NA 

None 

90'(30') 

Van 

** 

- 

No 

No 

Revenant** 

-3 

IS**** 

81 

3 

2*8/28/3-6 

I2Q'(40') 

C 

6 

Comp. 

Yes 

Yes 

Revener 

-4 

10* 

75 

1 

Special 

180'(60') 

C 

10 

Mast. 

Yes 

No 

Roaring Demon** 

-5 

16(9*) 

96 

2 

Special 

60'(2G J ) 
150'(50') 

C 

7 

New M. 

Yes 

Yes 

Sea Hag 

4 

a*** 

36 

3 

Special 

120'(40') 
I50 r (50') 

C 

12 

New M. 

Yes 

No 

Shadow* 

7 

2 + 2* 

11 

\ 

1-4 + Special 

90'(30') 

c 

17 

Basic 

Yes 

Yes 

Skeleton 

7 

1 

5 

\ 

16 

90'(30') 

c 

19 

Basic 

No 

Yes 

Spectre 

2 

6** 

36 

l 

108 + Special 

150'(50') 
300 (100 ) 

c 

14 

Exp, 

Yes 

Yes 

Sperm Whale 

6 

36* 

162 

l 

3 60 

180'(60') 

N 

2 

Comp, 

Yes 

No 

Water Elemental* 

2 

16 

72 

1 

3-24 

180'(60') 

H 

7 

Exp. 

No 

No 

Water Termites 

5 

4 

18 

l 

1*6 

180'(60 r ) 

H 

15 

Exp. 

No 

No 

Wight 

5 

3* 

14 

1 

Special 

90'(30') 

C 

17 

Basic 

Yes 

No 

Wraith* 

3 

4** 

18 

l 

Special 

120'(40') 
240'(80') 

c 

16 

Exp. 

Yes 

Yes 

Zombie 

a 

2 

9 

l 

1-8 

90'(30') 

c 

18 

Basic 

No 

Yes 


(7*). (9*) indicates 7 or 9 asterisks aFter the creature's HD, 


RANDOM ENCOUNTERS CHART 


Alphatian 

Star Kingdoms 

Alphaks* 

Encounters 

Sea 

South Hem. 

North Hem, 

Mountain 



- 

- 

01-20 

Apparition (1-2) 

01-30 

01-10** 

- 

- 

Dolphin ft-20) 

- 

1120 

01*30 

- 

Dragon, Blue (1=6) 

3135 

21-35 

31-35 

- 

Dragon, White (1*2) 

36-40 

36-40 

- 

21-30* 

Dragon Turtle (l) 

- 

- 

- 

31*35 

Dmj(l) 

- 

- 

- 

36-50 

Ghost (12) 


¦- 

= 

51-80 

Ghoul Patrol (30) 

- 

41-45 

36-40 

- 

Giant Rocs (2-12) 

- 

- 

41-60 

- 

Guild's Fleet 

- 

46*50 

61 65 

- 

Hippogriff (1-12) 

41-65 

- 

- 

- 

Killer Whale (1-6) 

- 

- 

66-80 

- 

Pirate Fleet 

- 

- 

- 

81-90 

Revenant (1-4) 

- 

51*70 

81-90 

- 

Sky shark (1-4) 

- 

- 

- 

91-00 

Spectre (1-6) 

66-70 

71-75* * 

- 

- 

Sperm Whale (1*6) 

71-75 

76-80** 

- 

- 

Water Termites (2d4/ship) 

76-85 

81-85** 

- 

- 

Water Elemental (2-8) 

86-00 

86-95 

91-98 

- 

Weather Change 

- 

96-00 

9900 

- 

Immortal Help*** 


* within 100 feet from the beach 

In the Great Spiral Sea in the Star Kingdoms 

* * * the parly gains some information or some clue about an obscufe point 


PLAYERS MAP 



MAP KEY 


?D 

Mountains 


ED 

Hills 

u 

ED 

Marshes 

El 


Rivers 

C°D 


Lakes 

Sea 

Mountain Pass 


City 

SCALE: I hex =150 miles 


*1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 
























Into the Maelstrom 


by Bruce and Beatrice Heard 


t Alphatia, the most ancient empire, land of 
arcane and obscure secrets. It has grown for 
centuries and its might now overshadows the 
cauldron of civilization. Some say the Alpha- 
tians come from elsewhere, but no one knows 
for sure. 

Beyond the scope of mortals broods an evil 
mastermind, still in darkness. Once a betrayed 
emperor of ancient Alphatia, now an entity of 
the Sphere of Entropy, he seeks revenge on the 
greatest empire and on the race of man. His 
plots brought a deathly fog on all of Norwold. 
Perhaps it will extend to the southern nations. 
The matter is grave, so much that lords of 
the spheres have now to show their might. For 
them, it is time for mortals to intervene. Man 
defends his cause for him to earn divine favor. 

A great armada has been raised and able 
commanders must be found. Prove your 
worth, and the eternal portals of the spheres 
may open for you. 





This adventure is for use with the DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS' rules, and cannot be played without 
the DSD' Basic, Expert, Companion* and 
Masters Sets produced by TSR, Inc* 


1985 TSR, Inc, AH Rights Reserved* Printed In CLS.A, 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
Wl 53147 


TSR UK Ltd, 
The Mill. Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB14 AD 
United Kingdom 


0-88038-244-9 

ISBN 394-54890-6TSR0600 



9159XXX 1 401 


































