Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09153 WG 6 Isle Of The Ape"
See other formats
WG6 Approved for use with ADVANCED DSD(r) Game rules 9153 


* . 


Advanced Dungeon^rajons 


Fantasy World Adventure 

Isle of the Ape 

by Gary Gygax 









Advanced Dungeons^^ragons 


^icnyrofORgVudWK 

Fantasy World Adventure 

Isle of the Ape 

by Gary Gygax 



cReoits 


TaBle op Contents 


0^0 


Design: Gary Gygax 
Development: Bruce A, Heard 
illustration: Gary Williams 
Cover: Jeff Easley 
Typesetting: Betty Elmore and 
Carolyn Vanderbilt 

Special Thanks to Penny Petticord 


Distributed 10 ihe book trade m the United Staten by Ran 
dom H<m"e, Inc* and In Canada by Random House of Can 
ada , Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional 
distributors. Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR UK 
Ltd. 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. AD£D, WORLD OF 
GREY HAWK, PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION, and the 
TSR Vogts are trade marks owned by TSR Inc. 


' Copyright 1&85 TSR Inc. AH Rights; Reserved. 


This adventure in protected under the tup? right laws of the 
United States of America. Any reproduction or other unau- 
thdriroi! use of l|ie material or artwork contained herein is 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR 
Inc, 


TSR Inc, 

FOB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
Wl 53147 


TSR UK Lid 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB14AD 
United Kindgojn 



TSR, Inc* 

PftOtJUCTS OF VOUR IMAGINATION ¦* 


fopewoRO. 2 

IntRO&uction . 2 

BackQROunG fOR the Punqeon masteR. 3 

the Laws of the Isle of the Ape 
niaqical Items 
OescaiBinq the islAnd 
Island Conditions 
movement Rates 


monsie j? Statistics and encounters 


Other} dm notes 

the A&ventuRe Beqms. 6 

meetmq with tenses 
encounter} Setttnq 
encounter} key 

Beyonb the Wall. 18 

encounter Setting 
encounter} key 

Ounqeon masteR maps. 19, 20, 29, 30 

playep hanOouts ..23-26 

PRegereRAteO ChaRacteRS .21.22. 27. 28 

Oonqa's tarn .40 

encounter} Settmq 
encounter} key 

new monsteps. 46 

new Spells.48 


Printed in U.S.A. 

ISBN 0-88038-238-4 
RH ISBN 394-54877-9TSR0750 


9IS3 















OR6WOR0 


This module is based on an actual portion of 
the Greyhawk Castle campaign initiated by 
the author in 1972, It contains complete infor 
mation for the adventure, including outdoor 
maps, maps of subterranean-tvpe areas, ail 
expanded Monsters Attack Matrix (page 47), 
a Player Character's daily Journal, and finally, 
the monster statistics and pfe-generated 
characters for those players who do not have 
sufficiently advanced characters of their own 
to undertake this quest. 

The participants of the original adventures 
that took place on the Isle of the Ape include 
the following: Don Arndt, Ernie Gygax, Don 
Kaye, Rob Kuntz, Terry Kuntz, and Mike 
Mornard, It is worth noting that none of these 
Bold Adventurers ever completed the quest, 
opting to risk other fell places rather than con 
tinuing to face the perils of the island. 


I . 

ntRoOuction 


The place you are about to send yoqr Player 
Characters is a very deadly one indeed. Well, 
players have been asking for high-level adven 
tures, and you are about to give them what 
they've been asking for (in spades). Before 
they begin, and before you prepare to run, 
remember this: if you DM this module accord 
ing to the rules of the game, and its spirit, the 
best of players are going to be in real trouble 
before very long. There are not many tricks, 
traps, or clever devices here. This is an 
adventure of attrition. The place is literally 
infested with horrible monsters, and the 
sheer numbers of huge, man-eating creatures 
will soon take toll of the PCs. Unless they are 
clever about conserving their resources, the 
adventurers will find thaL they have exhausted 
far too much of their jrawer and not explored 
half of the island. Magic-users will be particu 
larly vulnerable to this. The point of all this 
preamble is to exhort you to be tough. That's 
right, don't allow any sympathy to interfere 
with the game as it is designed. Too many 
players are marching around claiming (hat 
they have characters able to handle any dung. 
Now is the time to let them demonstrate the 
mettle of these invincible characters they 
have. 


One further note: this module lias been 
designed for use with Unearthed Arcana. 
Many of the magical items, new rules, and 
character classes mentioned come from this 
unearthly tome. 

Classes & Levels: 

Barbarian 12th level and up 

Cleric 15th level and up 

Druid 12th level and up 

Fighter 15th level and up 

Magic-user 14th level and up 

Paladin 15th level and up 

Ranger 15th level and up 

Thief, Acrobat 15th level and up 

Not Recommended: assassins, bards, cava 
liers, illusionists, and monks. 

You may easily allow groups of more than 
six or characters of greater than 18th level of 
experience to adventure on the island. To han 
dle larger or stronger groups, simply increase 
the number of monsters encountered slightly. 
Don 1 ! overdo it! Remember that a larger 
group will have greater difficulty avoiding 
monsters, so the object is simply to allow the 
planned attrition to operate naturally. 


2 









BackQROunO poR 
unqeon masteR 


the 


The Laws of the 
Isle of the Ape 

Spells that do not function 
on this demi-plane 

Alter Reality 
Animal Summoning 
Astral spell 
Augurs' 

Cacodemon 
Chariot of Su star re 
Commune 

Commune with Nature 
Contact Higher Plane 
Dimension Door 
Divination 

Drawmij f s Instant Summons 

Find the Path 

Gate 

Invisibility to Animals 
Legend Lore 
Limited 
Locate Object 
Monster Summoning 
Plant Door 
Teleport 

Teleport without Error 

Transport 

Wish 

Wbrd of Recall 

Ail similar psionie powers are likewise use- 
less, including psionie invisibility. 

Illusions applied to reptiles are virtually use 
less, as the brains of these monsters are too 
dull to notice anything of such sublety, Thus, 
when such spells are used against these mon 
sters, they always save. 

Invisibility-type magic of any sort is also vir 
tually useless, for these monsters use heat, 
odor, and sound to locate prey, not just vision. 
Characters moving very quietly, camouflaged, 
and being careful to be downwind of a preda 
tory creature will be able to pass unnoticed, 
but otherwise, standard avoidance action 
must be taken. Simply becoming invisible will 
not cause a carnivore to turn away and look 
elsewhere for prey 

Spell books, spells therein, and spell com 
ponents must be kept track of. Unless they 
are on hand, or can be located on the island, 
the spell caster concerned will not be able to 


cast the spell or spells requiring the compo 
nents which are not available* 

Divine intervention will not happen, regard 
less of any claims to the contrary* Only one 
deity is aware of what goes on on the demri 
plane that contains the Isle of the Ape, and 
that is Zagyg, He is totally indifferent to what 
fate befalls adventurers there-it is strictly up 
to them to survive or become fertilizer. Cler 
ics praying for their spells may do so without 
being affected as described above. 

Magical Items 

The players can bring along a vast array of 
magical items, providing that they have the 
means to cart them along. Remember what 
will function and what will not. Also be sure 
that you keep track of where all items are 
stored. If, for instance* they pack a magical 
bag or hole full of goodies, require them to go 
through the whole thing in order to retrieve 
something. This will take lots of game time. 
To illustrate this point to them, gather up 
some smallish, disparate items, and put them 
into a pillow case or similar container. Then, 
indicate a singular item (say a pen represent 
ing a wand) as one that is to be drawn out. 
Count. If the contents are dumped out, the 
item can be obtained with fair rapidity. If an 
arm is thrown into the container, it will take a 
long time to find, for you will have placed 
other objects of similar size and shape therein 
to simulate the difficulty of retrieving items 
from such a bag. A portable hole will abso- 
lately require emptying-or crawling into- 
for retrieval of items* Meanwhile, adversaries 
will be attacking. 

Artifacts and relics, as well as special magi 
cal items with powers granted from some 
great being or deity, do not work at all on this 
island. The demi-plane is such that their func 
tioning is totally impaired. In other words, the 
characters must use standard equipment, 
normal magic, and their own abilities in order 
to survive* Any good adventure is a test of the 
abilities of the players to utilize their charac 
ters, and they must not be allowed to rely on 
items* 

Describing the Island 

From a distance, the Isle of the Ape appears 
to be a pile of jagged mountains sprinkled with 
smoking volcanoes. Al night these cones give 
the place a dim* hellish glow* Of course, fog 
and clouds enshroud the place most of the 


time, so only portions of the island can usually 
be seen, and then only from relatively dose 
proximity* 

The whole land mass is well above the 
water, except for the bit of beach near the 
southwestern tip of the island. The rest of the 
place is sheer-sided cliffs, steep mountain 
sides, and broken rocks that prevent 
approach to the land. There are plateaus in 
the southwest, the northwest, and the east 
ern ends of the isle* The central mass is a 
gradually sloping basin, a saucer, if you will* 
where the daily downpouring of rain collects 
to form a large lake and surrounding swamp, 
This slowly drains because the water has 
managed to cut a bed that leads underground 
and empties via a 200-foot-long waterfall on 
the west coast of the island. The whole place 
is very warm, and it is muggy and steaming 
hot in the central morass of swamp and jungle* 

The plateau areas are only slightly less 
overgrown than the rest of the place. The 
whole island is a riot of vegetation. 

If you have any colored illustrations of the 
Jurassic. Triassic. or similar period, be sure to 
get them ready for perusal by your players 
during the course of the adventure. Once they 
are in a position to see the island, having such 
illustrations open to their view at all times will 
assist them in setting the mood for the game. 

Terrain Types 

Plain areas are covered with tall grasses (3 
to 6 feet or higher)* scrub growth, ferns, and 
scattered trees. There will be occasional out 
croppings of rock t small pools, ant nests, ter 
mite mounds, thickets, and so forth. Where 
herds of herbivores graze, the rich soil and 
volcanic ash fertilizer allow growth at an 
amazing rate. Small reptiles and even mam 
mals scurry everywhere* while the huge dino 
saurs roam freely. 

Hills are simple rolling areas of plain, with 
cuts from water erosion and more frequent rock 
outcroppings. In the folds between high ground 
areas there will be thickets and higher growth, 

Foothills and mountains will be heavily 
vegetated wherever soil will allow growth* 
However, the mountains are so sheer that 
there are few such places. Winged reptiles 
will be observable flapping ponderously to and 
from their nests on rocky ledges on mountain 
sides and foothill mesa tops. Watercourses* 
slide areas, and like places permit some 


3 






growth and provide habitat for some species, 
and cavemen and carnivorous apes dwell in 
the many caves and caverns which honey* 
comb these areas. 

Swamp areas are very wet and heavily 
vegetated also. While grasses, ferns, and 
reeds make up the majority of swamp growth, 
there will be mangrove and cypress-fike trees 
and cycadeoids. Low mounds allow great 
trees to grow, trees resembling baobabs, 
banyans, and great redwoods. Occasionally 
the shallow water will deepen into pools of fair 
depth, some no more than a few' yards across, 
others as large as 100 yards in diameter. 
Countless insects, from tiny gnats to mon 
strous dragonflies, swarm above the surface 
of this mire, while hosts of aquatic insects, 
leeches, batrachians, and weird fish fill the 
lower surface, 

Jungle is a combination of rainforest, with 
attendant huge trees, and true jungle, The 
entire place is a riot of huge mosses and great 
ferns, with every imaginable sort of palm and 
cycadeoid, vine and liana filling the spaces 
between the larger growths. Where water 
fills low spots mighty rushes and towering 
reeds spring up. Far overhead are many small 
lizards, snakes, and toothed birds-as well as 
pterodactyls of all sizes. Lower down are 
somewhat larger reptiles and all sorts of flying 
and crawling insects. At ground level the 
same is true. Everywhere there are all forms 
of living things-insects, invertebrates, rep 
tiles. and the ponderous herbivorous dino 
saurs hunted by the swift carnivorous ones. 

Lake is just that, a prehistoric lake. Its 
swampy verge is home to the great saurians 
u r ho use its buoyancy to support their massive 
bodies while long necks feed from swamp or 
aquatic growth* The waters are alive with 
amphibians and lung fish, true fish, and 
smaller reptiles. Of course there are forms of 
algae and aquatic plants, and amongst them 
are crustaceans, worms, leeches, insect lar 
vae, and who knows what else* Vicious car 
nivorous dinosaurs swim here and there 
looking for an incautious victim, while in 
deeper waters they must contend with the 
terrible fish that lurk for prey, From its shal 
low edges, the water shoals to some 20 or so 
feet in depth, save where the bottom falls in 
the north central portion. There* the water is 
from 50 to 200 feet deep. 

Small lakes (those of about one square 


mile) have only the dinosaurs and smaller life, 
not the great fish (dinichtysys). 

Reefs are razor sharp rocky shards under 
water or pointing out of the sea. They are 
impassable to any kind of vessel or small boat. 
Swimmers receive ld6 points of damage per 
turn spent in that vicinity. 

Island Conditions 

The heat, dampness, and daily downpours 
make life very difficult on the island. In the 
western plateau areas* as well as the higher 
hill areas elsewhere* humans can survive 
these conditions. In the swamps and jungle, 
even on the savannahs, the elements combine 
to cause severe difficulties. You must keep the 
following in mind with regard to player charac 
ters (and their equipment) while adventuring 
on the island* 

Attrition: Scrolls and standard spell books 
are affected only if they remain unprotected. 
Traveling spell books and Boccob Blessed 
Books are not affected by the attrition condi 
tions of the isle unless abandoned open. The 
leather of traveling spell books is resistant to 
humidity and for gaming purposes should not 
be affected by the rotting factor for the dura 
tion of the adventure. 

Use the following guidelines for the chances 
and duration of equipment attrition: 


Material 

Attrition 

Chance* 

Time* * 

Food, drinks 

100% 

1 day 

Paper, 

parchment 

5% 

1 day 

Cloth 

25% 

5 days 

Rope 

5% 

10 days 

Leather 

10% 

7 days 

Vfcod, 

hard vegetal 

2% 

10 days 

Metal*** 

20% 

2 weeks 

Mineral* ivory 

not affected 


Artifacts 

not affected 



¦"Attrition Chance determines the cumula 
tive percentage chance any material starts 
rotting, molding, or rusting. Check when the 
item is first exposed to the island s conditions 
and thereafter once per full day of exposure* 
Reduce chances by 1/2 (rounded up) for magi 
cal items and those that are protected. 

If materials are protected by storage, oil, 
and like precautions against destruction, then 
count only actual exposure time. 


**Time indicates how long it will take for the 
affected material to rot, rust, or mold beyond 
use. Multiply that duration by 10 for magical 
items. 

***Some metals, such as gold, silver, plati 
num, copper, brass, adamantite, mithrah and 
nickel* do not rust* Bronze covers itself with a 
thin layer of oxidized metal giving its charac 
teristic green tint, but then becomes impervi 
ous to further rust. Thus bronze armors are 
not affected, however, bronze weapons 
should then do only 1/2 damage because of the 
loss of sharpness. Silver-plated items should 
not be affected either, unless damaged so that 
some of the silver coating is gone. 

Disease: fungi will attack humans within a 
day, so that on the second and following days 
each character has a 25% chance of a disease 
-fungoid, amoebic, bacterial* or viral* no 
matter. 

Disease will cause general debilitation 
within 24 hours, and this will be reflected by 
the loss of 1 point from each characteristic per 
day. When all stats are at 0, the character is 
dead. Cure disease will relieve all sickness, 
but lost points will take 1 day each to be 
restored. (Begin at the bottom and work up, 
i.e., Comeliness* Charisma, Constitution, 
Dexterity, Wisdom, Intelligence* and finally 
Strength*) What is lost in a single day of illness 
takes seven full days to recover! 

Statistics with extra percentages are also 
affected at the rate of one percentage cate 
gory per loss. Example: a character with 
18,80 points of Strength would be reduced to 
18.75 after the first loss, etc, 

Characters immune to disease will still have 
a 5% chance per day of becoming ill* They, 
along with those suffering the 25% chance* 
will be considered to have total natural immu 
nity if four successive days pass wherein they 
are not affected by disease* 

Illness will be noted immediately, as a feel 
ing of weakness* dizziness, inability to think, 
stiffness* etc. will be evident. If, at these first 
signs, a curative is used, then no loss of fac 
tors will occur* 

Food; eating the natural fare of the island 
doubles chances for disease. Purify Ftx>d & 
Drink spells are sufficient to ensure that 
spoiled food is safely edible (no chances for 
contracting disease). 

An airtight or magical container may pre* 
serve food for a normal period of time, as long 
as the food is not exposed to the isle's condi 
tions. Once the spell is cast, or once the con- 


4 











tainer is opened* the food must be eaten 
immediately to avoid spoilage and diseases. 
Items or food in magical containers using 
extra-dimensional storage space should be 
affected by random monsters from those 
outer planes. As soon as an airtight container 
starts rusting or rotting, it is no longer capable 
of protecting food or drinks. 

Of course, those with natural immunity can 
freely partake of foodstuffs from the isle with* 
out fear. 

Movement Rates 

The party may advance through the isle at 
the following speeds, according to the type of 
terrain they attempt to cross: 


Monster Statistics 
and Encounters 

Monster Charts: All the gaming details 
concerning the monsters appear on the inside 
of this module's cover, along with all the nec 
essary Random Encounter Tables. Some 
extra information regarding random encount 
ers may appear at the beginning of each sec 
tion of the text. 

Encounter Distances: In swamp or jun 
gle, encounters occur at 20-80 yards (2d4xl0) 
from the party* The distance is usually the 
same as on a plain, but double the distance if 
the creature is erect or very large* 


HILLS 

FOOTHILLS/BLUFFS 

MOUNTAINS 

GRASSLANDS 

JUNGLE 

SWAMP 

RIVER 

LAKE (raft) 

LAKE (boat) 


2 hexes/hour 
1 hex/bour 
1 hex/2 hours 
5 hexes/2 hours 
1 hex/2 hours 
1 hex/2 hours 
1 hour to cross 
1 hex/2 hours 
1 hex/hour 


Time Factor: Each period of daylight will 
be 12 hours long, but two hours each day must 
be spent resting, so the party effectively has 
10 hours of movement time each day, with 
each hexagon on Map 1 representing one 
square mile. 

Trails: If there is a trail to follow, the speed 
will increase by a rate of 1 hex/hour of travel, 
so the party should certainly seek out trails 
whenever they desire to cover distance! 

Arboreal Movement: Climbing into trees 
for safety does not preclude encounters. If an 
encounter is indicated when the party is aloft, 
it will be with either flying creatures or snakes 
of some sort* 


Reactions: A carnivore w T ill automatically 
turn and attack; a herbivore will move in a ran 
dom direction* checked on Id6 (i.e. T a 1 in 6 is 
at you!). If the party is noisy, any dinosaur will 
automatically face the party before taking 
other actions* 

Other DM Notes 

The following are miscellaneous notes that 
may come handy in the course of the adven 
ture. 

If a player rolls a (modified) negative to hit 
score, and still hits the target, the damage is 
reduced by that (negative) score. 

Example: a 17th-Ievel fighter rolls a modi 
fied score of -4 and hits an AC 8 creature with 
a long sword. The damage is ld8-4 (with a 
minimum of 1 point of damage). 

Apes are not humanoids for any spell pur 
poses, nor do rangers gain damage bonuses 
against them. 

Missiles from a Necklace of Missiles can 
be hurled from a sling. To hit bonuses will 
apply. 


Flying: This wUl certainly bring attention 
to the party, and encounters will increase 
from 25% to 50%. Of course, all such 
encounters will be with flying monsters. 

Levitating: Each time levitation takes 
place* a normal check for random encounters 
must be made . If an encounter is indicated, it 
will be with snakes {if near trees) or else with 
flying reptiles. 

In short, there is no safe place on the Isle of 
the Ape* 


With respect to a Cube of Force, mon 
sters with 12 or more Hit Dice will strike as if 
they were a catapult missile, and the following 
points accrue to the strength of the device s 
protective maximum: 


12-15 HD 
16-19 HD 
20-23 HD 
24 & up 


1 point vs, cube 

2 points vs. cube 

3 points vs, cube 

4 points vs. cube 


5 










he aOventuRe Begins 


Meeting with Tenser 


You stand before a great throne of lapis 
lazuli. The massive chamber in which it 
rests is also blue. Even the air has an 
indigo quality-perhaps from the weirdly 
convoluted coils of smoke rising from bra 
ziers of azure metal. The youngish figure 
encompassed by the great chair is a per 
sonage , a man whose presence inspires 
awe. Tenser the Arch-Mage. A glance at 
your companions reassures you* for they 
too demonstrate attitudes of humility and 
respect. This is a momentous meeting* 
and none take it lightly. 

High above the Free City of Greyhawk* 
somewhere upon the lonely south coast of 
the Nyr Dyv* you and your associates 
trekked to answer a summons that could 
not be taken lightly. Adventurers of your 
exalted status know much that lesser indi 
viduals do not. The call issued by most 
secret and occult channels. It was for only 
the best and most powerful of Those Who 
Serve, It came from a Fellow of the Circle 
of Eight, but which of that August Body, 
none of you knew- until just a moment ago. 
In answer, each of you set out from his or 
her home to the teeming warrens of Grey- 
hawk City. In a secret rendezvous you met 
your fellows for the first time, and as a 
group you made the journey north and 
came to the hidden fortress of Unknown 
Depths. Now each of you is aware that the 
Sum mo tier was the renowned Tenser, 
boon companion of many of the most 
redoubtable adventurers in the Flanaess 
and one who is privy to the Council of the 
shadowy figures who are the determiners 
of the course the world will take. 

Tenser nods welcome, and with a casual 
gesture causes comfortable seats to 
appear for each of you. When you are all at 
rest, the Arch-Mage begins to relate a 
strange tale, 

"Most of you are familiar with the name 
Robilar, and perhaps a few have knowledge 
of his brother* Terik, It was in this com 
pany, and with Merlynd as well, that I first 
ventured to the Isle of the Ape,,. +t 

Here the Arch-Mage pauses to adjust 
his flowing robes of midnight blue. A tiny 
gesture follows* and goblets of pure tur 
quoise appear, each filled to the rim with a 
heady, effervescent brew of violet color. 
Tenser reaches forth and plucks one of the 
floating vessels from midair: "'Please* 
please* do help yourselves* Good Folkl 


Tins is rather rare Celenese nectawine, 
made from moonberries picked only when 
both moons are blue!" All quaff, and you 
find it excellent indeed. Tenser continues: 

"It was years past-more than a decade 
now-that our quartet was delving deep 
beneath that grim pile of ruins known as 
Grey hawk Castle, Vte had plumbed the very 
depths of the central shaft* and far beneath 
we discovered a vast* multi-leveled array of 
natural caverns and passages infested by 
every sort of hideous monster one could 
imagine. As meat and drink* so were those 
adventures to us* but we risked too much 
one day. and ill came of it" 

As Tenser pauses to sip his drink* you 
look at your companions. Each seems 
engrossed in the talk. You turn your atten 
tion to the Arch-Mage as he begins again: 

**In a great tunnel, oddly convoluted and 
filled with unknown glyphs, w r e chanced 
upon a warning, but heeded it not* foolishly 
desiring to gain still more before returning 
to the fair surface, sunlight and clean air. 
The dweomer was most powerful and 
strange there, but ahead we forged* and in 
a gut-wrenching instant the four of us 
stood on the shore of a grim island, a hot* 
steaming* volcanic morass. We set forth 
bravely enough, and in a fair battle bested 
the ebon savages standing between us and 
what we thought of as our route of escape. 
Wrong, how wrong! Beyond the portal was 
only a stinking jungle, swamps, and huge 
monsters of all sorts. Our trek about the 
place isn't meaningful to this story* how 
ever* so I'll say naught of what transpired, 
save the final portion. Ii was in desperation 
that we turned to what we believed our 
only means of egress from the hellish 
place, Amongst the considerable store of 
treasure we had with us when we were 
transported to the place was an amulet of 
Zagyg.** think you that that one and Zagig 
yrageme are one and the same? I am sure 
of it! No matter, no matter, 

"Such magicks are rare and risky, but we 
knew T naught else* so we invoked its power. 
Take us away it did, just as was hoped, but at a 
cost-a dear payment. The dweomer of the 
amulet carried us, but naught of our belong 
ings. Back into the depths of the dungeon, 
stark naked. With skill and much luck we man 
aged to win escape, and thereafter our group 
sought information, council with great sages, 
and every other means of finding how to go 
back to the place and return safely, Vk learned 
much. 


"The place is known only as the Isle of die 
Ape. From what we saw there it is safe to 
assume that there is a monstrous ape there 
alright^one larger than any giant. It is in 
another place, a demi-plane perhaps, so 
there is no hope of escape by magical means 
other than those provided by the one who 
seems to sustain it, Zagyg, or should I say 
Zagig. fet* for aH his drollery, never was he 
one to proride no escape from any trap he 
set for those full of hubris " 

Filled with great curiosity now, you wait 
expectantly for the conclusion of the tale. 
"RobQar's feet are now on a path unspeak 
able. Terik? Who knows. Dead* probably* 
Mertynd too is now elsewhere, and of the 
four only l remain to speak of the misadven 
ture. Finding no method of expeditious 
return from the island* we shunned the 
place, choosing to lose Lite great wealth 
rather than risk untimely demise in the filthy 
muck of that isle. Now, however, a need has 
arisen for something inadvertently brought 
to tlrnt island and left there* This, Brave 
Souls* is where you enter the tale. 

"As my power grew, so did my determi 
nation to aid those seeking to maintain equi 
librium. In due course I sought the Circle of 
Eight, and in time I was accepted in their 
ranks. Now I sit as one of the Eight Magi and 
am charged with overseeing the whole of the 
territory roundabout* As great is the need 
for my presence on the Isle, greater still is 
the demand for me to remain here* for great 
trouble brews even as l speak. 

"Amidst the gems and magicks we bore 
out from the depths of Castle Greyhawk's 
dungeon, was a small mace* a mere toy* it 
seemed, albeit one fashioned of iron and sil 
ver and encrusted with carven gemstones. 
No geegaw, that. It is a most cliarmed imple 
ment of clerical power, the Crook of Rao, If 
that One is most peaceful and serene* none 
theless his word is not to be lightly passed 
off. Long and long Rati has refrained from 
any meddling here, but he left with us a token 
of his power* Devils and demons of the 
Lower Planes shudder at the mere mention 
of the object* Daemonkind Dee in terror at 
sight of it* and we need it now! 

"Know- you of Iggwilv? Dead* you 
thought? Long dead*,. No* not so! She 
stirs and is much wroth, for her beloved 
daughter was laid low. If left to work her 
will* all of those who seek weal and good 
will soon be slain or enslaved by her 
hordes. Daemons will stalk Oerth, and 
blood will drip from black altars. Even with 


6 









Ipii 

is(r)?s >stsjS|"iiigs'sS!s 




WLM 

1 v_ fc ; -!m i - J 






















































the artifact, the coming confrontation will 
be no certain thing* but at least Iggwilv will 
have no demon hordes to serve her. Now 
listen and attend me most carefully. 

"You are the chosen agents of the Circle 
of Eight, It is vour charge to overcome all 
of the perils of the Isle of the Ape, find The 
Crook of Rao P and with it win to the exit 
and return here" 

Startled murmurs arise from your asso 
ciates. This is no small charge! Questions 
bubble forth, and after listening to the con 
fused queries for several minutes* Tenser 
raises his hand for silence, 

"This, and this only, do 1 know: There is 
a way to leave the island, A teleportation 
device set to the mind of the user is hidden 
somewhere there. Once seen it will be 
recognized* 

"The natives of the island are worthy 
foes, though evil. One or more of their reli 
gious leaders might know where the arti 
fact rests. Zagyg conceived of the island as 
a testing place for those who sought to 
ascend beyond the realm of mundane 
adventuring, and its perils are deadly, but 
its rewards great. 

"The Crook of Rao is on the island, and 
there are the following lesser magical 
items which we lost that are also there: 

+ 3 plate mail and + 3 magical shield 
+ 5 defender (longs word) 

+ 3 dagger of throwing 
Boots of levitation 
Ring of fire resistance 
Ring of protection f3 
Bracers of defense (AC 2) 

Cloak of protection + 2 resistance 
Rmg of protection +3 
Bracers of defense (AC 2) 

Cloak o f protection +2 
Shoes of Fharlanghn* 

Staff of power 
Girdle of many pouches * 

Ring of spell storing (6 spells: 2 1st, 2 2nd, 
1 3rd) 

+ 2 plate mail and + 5 magical shield 
+ 3 frost brand (bastard sword) 

+ 3 battle axe 

Girdle of frost giant strength 
Bag of holding (1,000 lb. limit) 

Ring of spell turning 

Cloak of the bat m 

Cloak of displacement 

Hand of conjuration (70 charges) 

Ring of protection ( + 4 on AC, + 2 on sav 
ing throws) 


Ring of djinns summoning 
Ring of feather falling 
Boots of striding & springing 
Necklace of adaptation 
Gem of seeing 
Periapt of wound closure 
Rope of climbing (100 foot coil) 

2 Boccoh Blessed Books (49 spell levels 
each)* 

Howard's handy haversack* 

"There were some other odds and ends 
which were used up or else have undoubt 
edly been destroyed by time and the foul 
conditions on the island, but there you 
have the gist of what treasure we lost. The 
artifact must be given to me f but the rest is 
yours-we have long written it off-along 
with whatever else you should happen to 
gather up there!"' 

The chamber glows azure, and as Ten 
ser gazes intently at your party, long, thin 
arcs of blue-violet electricity sizzle down 
from the domed vault above and play about 
his throne. He asks: "Do you each sol 
emnly accept this perilous charge 

His words echo from the walls, and 
reverberate in your head. Of course, 
adventurers of your level and status can 
not refuse such a challenge! As one, you 
give assent, and your quest is onl 


* DM Note: If the players ask, Tenser will 
reply that these special items will be explained 
to them when they return to his fortress with 
the artifact. 


Strange, golem-like figures of silver with 
eyes that shine with a lambent blue radi 
ance seem to appear from nowhere. The 
Arch-Mage informs you that your party 
will have a day to rest and prepare your 
selves for the adventure ahead. During 
this time, he will ready his means of trans 
porting you to the Isle of the Ape, for no 
one must be alerted to your venture, and 
to use the entrance in the dungeons of 
Greyhawk Castle w f ould surely cause the 
enemy to take countermeasures. 

Your party is escorted by the silvery 
creatures to spacious and comfortable 
quarters in an isolated tower of the strong 
hold. Your needs are tended to, and the 
time is spent readying spells and 
breakfasting at dawn, 


Be certain to allow the participants to pre 
pare their characters for the adventure. If 


they ask. Tenser will comment on illusions, 
invisibility, and summoning spells not func 
tioning well on the island. 


Then Tenser personally accompanies 
you to the shore of the Nyr Dyv where a 
strange ship of bronze-colored metal 
awaits* All of you clamber aboard, and the 
crew of a score of tough-looking men 
hoists a single great sail of blue and silver. 
It fills with air immediately, and the vessel 
soon carries you far out upon the surface of 
the water. As you travel, you note that a 
haze seems to surround the ship, and the 
farther you go the thicker it becomes, until 
soon you are within a bank of dense, rolling 
fog, The light grows dim, then is gone alto 
gether, but a glow springs forth from the 
very fabric of the vessel itself, and by this 
sapphire radiance you observe that the 
water has become turbulent* It smells odd* 
and the spray from the great rolling waves 
tastes salty* Time seems meaningless, yet 
you feel that somehow days, not hours 
have passed, when suddenly the pitching 
of the ship lessens. The craft is rolling in a 
gentle swell. Tenser has left the helm and 
stands before your group. 

"No further can we go, else we too will be 
required to spend ourselves gaining the 
secret of the island s egress-would that we 
could aid-but the honor and glory is yours! 
May Boccob speed you to success!" 

At this, several of the crew begin unfolding 
a device. You recognize it as a folding boat. 
One of the sailors tells you that the command 
words are "Jolly," "Dragonship," and "Bat 
ten" to cause the magical box to become a 
boat, ship* or box again.You realize that you 
must remember these command words if 
you are to use the craft. 


Note to the DM; Do not allow any notation 
of these words* Memorization is required. 


"Hurry now!" Tenser commands, "You 
have only a minute or two before the open 
ing I have forced into this detm-plane heals 
itself! Head straight, and you will 
encounter the shore of the island. The 
vessel will see you safely ashore, but you 
must bend your backs to the oars. Go! " 
With that, you darnber aboard the vessel* 
and an instant later the blue light dies and is 
replaced by the dull Bhiminadon of the sun 
durough heavy fog and doud. You hear the roar 
of breakers upon the shore, and all know that 
you have come to the Isle of the Ape. 









Encounter Setting 

As players with high-level characters, the 
participants should show no hesitation about 
accepting the challenge of the undertaking 
which is herein proposed. If they do, you 
should suggest that they are not properly 
role-playing their characters. Use coercion, 
flattery, humiliation, or whatever else is nec 
essary' to bring them around. For example, if 
the characters involved are above 18th level, 
have Tenser accept them as peers, call them 
"Noble Lords" (and "Ladies," if applicable), 
relate the ceremony with which they are 
received, the luxury and stateliness of their 
quarters, and so on. As usual, your personali 
zation of this module, and your personal 
knowledge of the participants, will make it 
become a living, excitingpart of the campaign, 
and the quest will become one that honor and 
status make mandatory. 

The folding boat will be small if there are four 
or fewer characters. It will be large if there are 
five or more of them. The craft will carry them 
directly to the sandy beach of the island-Area 1 
on your map. There die adventure begins. Wise 
players will have their characters retain the 
boat, as a box, for further use. This might well 
save them from death later. 

Have at them! 

Random Encounters 

Check for encounters once per day and 
once per night. Encounters occur with a roll of 
10-12 on a dl 2. Use column # 1 on the R andom 
Encounters Table (see cover). 

General encounters in this area are princi 
pally related to the tribe of savage Kawibusas 
(see below), who control the peninsula west 
of the colossal wall. The apes are from their 
stock, as are the boars, although the latter are 
escaped and truly wild. The giant lizards are 
from the meat herd of the Kawibusas, while 
the podokesaurs are the only saurians surviv 
ing on the peninsula. 

Location of the Isle 

If the party decides to sail away from the 
isle, they will discover that other islands exist 
in the area. However, the party wifi not gain 
any knowledge there about their quest or a 
way of returning home. This will seem to be a 
different world endlessly filled with ferocious 
savages, cannibals, prehistorical monsters, 
etc. The party may invade some primitive 
kingdoms and rule them; however, that will 
not help them to leave this world. 


History' of the Kawibusas 

This group of savages are most warlike and 
cannibalistic. Although they raise both crops 
and domestic creatures that they slaughter for 
food, they are not satisfied. The Kawibusas 
alternately raid other nearby islands for 
prisoners-slaves and food-and venture 
across the island proper to raid the groups of 
cavemen dwelling in the hills. Their legends 
say that once they lived elsewhere, but their 
great-grandfathers many times removed 
were brought to this island-the witch doctors 
claiming that this was the will of Oonga! Dis 
ease, the savagery of the interior, and raiding 
keep their numbers in check, else the penin 
sula would be teeming with Kawibusas. Their 
enemies take a heavy toll, but when deaths 
amongst the warriors have risen to too high a 
level, they offer the enslaved natives from 
nearby islands the opportunity of becoming 
Kawibusas by blood rite, or else becoming a 
part of the blood rite. Ninety percent of these 
captives accept this new status gladly. The 
rest, along with whatever hapless cave dwell 
ers are on hand, provide the wherewithal for 
the ghastly ceremony that follows, 

These hideous savages also breed and train 
giant carnivorous apes. Those belonging to 
the tribe are given collars of gold, so that their 
domestication can be seen at a glance. These 
beasts are used to hunt, guard the compound 
of the tribe, and to serve as hounds when the 
tribe sends forth a raiding party to gather cap 
tives from the cave dwellers of the island's 
interior. The Kawibusas so dominate their 
own area that 90% of all the giant carnivorous 
apes on the peninsula are servants of these 
bloodthirsty masters! 

At the dark of each moon, the Kawibusas 
hold a feast, a cannibalistic orgy, in honor of 
Oonga (who is unaware of it), They prepare 
some special gift for their deity, be it a pris 
oner of either sex, a captured carnivorous 
ape, giant or ordinary, or some specially fat 
tened lizard or swine. Sounding gong and 
drums to alert their deity, the tribesmen 
gather atop the wall to observe the coming of 
the gargantuan creature and his devouring of 
the sacrifice. Even if Oonga fails to show up, 
some lesser carnivore will eventually come to 
satisfy their urge to see bloodletting. 

Having tracked the approach of the party of 
adventurers, the tribe has laid a careful 
ambush. Their warriors are painted in yellows 
and greens to blend with the vegetation. They 
wear headdresses of dried grass and mantles 
woven of the same stuff with green leaves 


thrust here and there to assist their conceal 
ment. Giant apes held well to the rear so as 
not to give away the ambush, these savages 
lie in wait to take their prey by total surprise. 

Description of the Kawibusas 

These barbarian tribesmen are of dark ebony 
hue. They are tall and very muscular. Adorn 
ments include various items of raw gold fash 
ioned into crude jewelry-armlets, anklets, 
necklaces, huge earrings, and pins that are 
inserted through the flesh of various parts of 
the body. More common, however, are tusk 
and tooth decorations for neck, ear, and nose. 

Clothing is simple, a grass skirt and cape 
being the most common. Sandals of lizard skin 
are typically used to protect the feet. The 
bushy hairdos are decorated with gold and 
ivory, tooth, and bone. 

Face and body painting are common. 
Around the village, colors are typically 
bright-red, yellow, blue. When raiding, the 
Kawibusas paint themselves yellow and green 
and further camouflage themselves by weav 
ing green vegetation into clothing and head 
dress. 

Headdress is by unit, each being distinct 
from the other. The size of the band, decora 
tions (shell, feather, bone, tooth, tusk, hide, 
gold, etc.) differentiate each group. Manner 
of striping, splotching, or stippling paint also is 
distinctive. 

Leaders and witch doctors have distinctive 
painting and dress, so as to make them readily 
identifiable to those familiar with the tribe. 

Ye Olde Parchment 

The party may find this old map at any con 
venient moment of the adventure. Likely 
places would be on a dead body near the land 
ing place, in the Big Witch Doctor's hut, near 
an altar, etc. It should be contained in an air 
tight scroll case covered with some unalter 
able metal (like gold). It has been lost on this 
world by one of the previous adventurers. 

If the party uses magic to decipher the 
runes use the following notes; 

Left: North, South, East, Wfest 
Bottom left: "Here dwell the mighty war 
riors" 

Middle: "Here we met the Great Oonga, and 
lost all hope" 

Upper right: "Ye Olde Parchment." 


9 










Encounter Key 

1. The Landing Place 


The layers of fog part, and before you is a 
shelving beach of sand and smooth rocks. It 
is about a mile wide, so there win be no diffi 
cult}- in landing, but to either side of the cove 
the waves surge and foam against sharp 
rocks and great boulders, and the terrain 
beyond rises steeply. This is certainly where 
you were meant to beach your craft. 


If the players decide to circumnavigate the 
island, they will learn its length and breadth, 
and thaL there are no other places to land. 

For the sake of ease, assume that their 
craft will make from 21 to 40 hexes per day of 
sailing. Each day out, the wind will drop on a 
dlO result of 1 or 2, rise on a 9 or 0, assuming 
wind at the start is force 5, Slow- movement 
10% cumulative for each drop, raise it 10% 
cumulative for each rise, but at 8 movement 
must be at least 6 hexes from land, so the 
craft must initially stand away from the island. 
The vessel will be shipping water If wind 
rises to force 0 (10), there is a 10% per hour 
chance of the craft capsizing and the adventur 
ers will then drown-unless otherwise able to 
survive in water In either a force 9 or 0 wind, 
the party can opt to run for the beach, but 
there is a 20% chance of wrecking the vessel 
on the rocks to port and starboard in a force 9 
wind, double such chances in force 0, Visibil- 
ity, normally 0 to 3 miles, will cause problems 
unless the players are accurate in mapping. 


As your vessel nears the beach, you see 
that there are a dozen or more dugout 
canoes, some of large size, and all with 
outriggers, drawn up and partially hidden 
amongst the thin vegetation there. The 
gravelly bottom scrapes the hull, and you 
are quickly wading ashore, 


The players should certainly state that they 
are dragging the magic boat ashore and using 
the command word to have it fold itself for 
easy carrying or concealment. If they do not, 
assume it is left bow fast in the sand, but as 
the tide rises* the vessel will go awash and 
soon be lost, adrift at sea. Time will be from 2- 
8 hours for this to occur (2d4). Say nothing as 
you make this determination. 


The low area slopes upward steeply 
ahead. You see that the land nearby is about 


40 feet above the level of the water* the cliffs 
topped by hills. The slope will take you to the 
level of these bluffs. As the jagged, rocky 
ground to either hand of the beach area like 
wise climbs upward, your obvious 
pathway-and there is a beaten trail discem- 
able ahead-is over the easy ground. 


If the party chooses to muck around in the 
rough terrain and lulls, keep track of time and 
check for encounters in each hex. Such 
checks for encounters in each new- hex are to 
be done throughout the course of the adven 
ture. 

2. High Vantage Point 


Your travel so far gives you a good idea 
as to what sort of time can be made walk 
ing here* From your hilltop vantage point 
you can see grasslands and jungle, and 
from w T hat you know you are able to esti 
mate an approximate movement pace* 
according to the terrain type. 


If the players ask for specifics, check in Move 
ment Rates (page 5) . If the party does not travel 
to Area 2, do not give them this information until 
they meet both these conditions: 

1) They have seen a good three or four differ 
ent terrain types on the island, 

2) They specifically ask for movement rates. 

Meanwhile* keep track of time and move 
the party from center to center of each hex. 
They will land at dawn. 

3. Grassy Plains 


From this place, some two miles across, 
you are able to observe a fair distance, for 


the land is higher here-a slight swelling in 
the flatness of the plateau-and the fog and 
mist has burned away with the heat of the 
sun. It is hot! The land narrows to the north 
east. Hills line both coasts in that direction. 
Between the hills you see two engrossing 
objects. About a mile or two distant there is a 
cluster of buildings and huts,..the thatched 
native sort of construction that tells you 
these are the dwellings of some form of sav 
age tribesmen, The other item is far larger 
and awe inspiring. About a mile beyond the 
native village is the largest wall you have 
ever seen! From this distance it is impossible 
to tefl just how large it is, but it must be well 
over a bowshot in length and taller than most 
towers-75 feet? 100 feet? Who can say? 
The trail leads toward the cluster of huts and 
probably toward the wall beyond as well, 


During the whole course of their landing and 
subsequent exploration-or traversal of the 
path-the party will have been under observa 
tion by scouts of the Kawibusas. These war 
riors will have reported all progress to the 
chief, and as the party wended its way toward 
the village, the native warriors will have gath 
ered near the jungle, east or west according 
to the likely path of the group, and readied an 
ambush for the interlopers. 

4. The Kawibusas' Ambush 

Although it has been over ten years since 
strangers have visited the tribe, the Kawibu 
sas have not forgotten. The Big Witch Doctor 
is, in fact, a survivor of several battles against 
magic-users, fighters and clerics, as is the 
chief, although at the time he was merely a 
young ambitious warrior. Therefore, the sav 
ages are prepared for such power* or at least* 
the leaders are and have positioned their 
troops accordingly, at Area A on map 2* 

BATTLE DIAGRAM 

Scale: 1 hex - 20 yards 

A t B, C, D: Mam battle units 
R: Reserve battle unit 
W: Big Witch Doctor 
H: Tribal Chief 

X: The party's position when the ambush 
is sprung. If the ambush occurs at another 
location keep the structure of the attack 
but change the terrain as desired* 




















This ambush occurs anytime the DM finds it 
convenient and possible. The party should not 
be allowed to reach the village without first 
running into this ambush. 

The characters enter the opening of this C- 


shaped formation, and when they are approxi 
mately in its center, about 50 yards from the 
tribesmen, the trap is sprung. 

There are five main battle units-A t B, C, 
D, and preserve unit)-involved in the bat 


tle , plus two sub-units, W and H. containing the 
Big Witch Doctor (W), and the Tribal Chief (H). 
Each main battle unit covers five hexes (see Bat 
tle diagram above). One of the hexes contains the 
leader of the unit (boldface letter)* 


Units A, D, and R are armed with two 
spears and one dub per warrior TVeal the 
club as a morning star for damage purposes. 
Each warrior in units B and C has one short 
bow, 12 arrows and a stone axe equal to a bat 
tle axe for damage purposes* All the warriors 
belong to the barbarian character class with 
large hide shields and the following tertiary 
skills: Animal Handling, Running* Sound Imi 
tating and Snare Building* 


These warriors are armed as units A, D, 
and R, except for the Chief who fights with a 
magical bastard sword + 1 / + 2 vs. enchanted 
monsters & magic-users, The chief wears a 
jack of reptile hide equal to leather armor, but 
no shield. If the party is heavily equipped with 
magical items, then the chief has a pouch of 
Dust of Appearance (12 applications)* 


Forces in 

Each Hex- 

-Units A, 

B, C, D**, 

and R 



Num. of 
Warriors 

AC 

Level 

HP 

To Hit Bonus 
Melee / Missiles 

Damage 

Bonus 

Saving 

Throws 

3 

5 

3 

20 

-/ +i 

+ 1 

none 

3 

3 

5 

30 

+ 1 / +2 

+ 2 

+ 1 

2 

3 

6* 

40 

+ 1/ + 2 

+ 3 

+ i 

1 

1 

8* 

50 

+ 2/ +3 

+ 4 

+ 2 

1*** 

1 

9* 

60 

+ 2/ +3 

+ 5 

+ 2 


* Attack twice per round on even numbered combat rounds. 

** This unit also contains five giant carnivorous apes with their keepers, staying at the rear 
(see cover for statistics), 

*** This is the units leader in the boldfaced letter hex. 


Sub-Unit ft, Tribal Chief and Guards-(only one hex) 


Num* of 
Warriors 

AC 

Level 

HP 

To Hit Bonus 
Melee / Missiles 

Damage 

Bonus 

Saving 

Throws 

4 

3 

10* 

70 

+ 2 / + 2 

+ 5 

+ 2 

2 

1 

11** 

80 

+ 3/ +3 

+ 6 

+ 2 

2 

1 

12** 

90 

+ 3/ +3 

+ 6 

+ 3 

Chief 

0 

14** 

100 

+ 4/ +- 5*** / +3 

+ 7/8*** 

+ 3 


* Attack twice per round on even numbered combat rounds. 
** Attack twice per round. 

*** This modifier includes magical sword bonus, 


Sub-Unit W* * t Big Witch Doctor and lesser ones (only one hex) 


Witch Doc. 

AC 

Level 

THACG 

HP 

Spells Memorized 

4 

6 

2 

19 

16 

Cure Light Wounds, Fear, Light , Burning 
Hands, 

2 

4 

4 

17 

32 

Cure Light Wbunds, Darkness, Detect 
Magic, Fear ; Chant, Speak with Animals, 
Burning Hands, Serpent Missile*. 

1 

2 

6 

15 

48 

Cure Light Vlbunds f Darkness, Detect 
Magic. Fear Light t Detect Charm, Resist 
Fire (x2) t Speak with Animals, Tongues, 
Serpent Missile * (x2) f Audible Glamor. 

Big W. Doc. 

2 

7 

14 

56 

Cure Light Wbuhds (x2) f Chant f Detect 
Magic, Light, Detect Charm, Hold Person 
Serpent Missile * (x2) f ShieldInvisibility , 
Levitate. 


+ New spell described at the end of the module, 

** Unit W also has five giant carnivorous apes and their keepers standing behind the witch doc 
tors' position (see cover for statistics). 


11 









These tribesmen are slightly different from 
those stated in the DMG. No major deviation 
has been made and personalization of shamans 
and witch doctors is recommended. 

They have no armor of any kind and fight 
with their dubs if forced to do so, If the party 
is heavily equipped with magical items, then 
the Big Witch Doctor should have a Staff of 
Swarming Insects (20 charges), and each 
lesser witch doctor a Mask of Enemy Detec - 
tion. The latter functions as the wand of the 
same name but with a double range. The 
gems in the eyes actually send forth a glowing 
green radiance to bathe the enemy in range. 
The gems are worth 500 gp each and the 
masks twice that of a wand of this ilk. 

Kawibusas* Tactics 

Once the party enters the trap, unit D 
moves in to close off the exit (see arrow #1 on 
Battle Diagram above). Then, the natives fob 
low the actions described below, if possible, 
following the chronological numbering. Each 
event occurs after the preceding one has 
ended, which may take one or more rounds. 

Action 1: First Missile Attack 

Units A, B, C* and D leap to their feet and 
hur] either one set of spears, or two 
rounds of arrows, according to their 
respective armament. That should amount 
to 100 spears and 200 arrows raining down 
upon the party. Units R, W and H remain 
hidden. That action lasts one round. Keep 
track of remaining spears and arrows. 

Action 2: First Apes 1 Charge, 

Same as above, except that unit D falls to the 
ground as their five giant carnivorous apes 
charge the party, These monsters are in blood 
hist and as soon as they are released, all five 
charge at 18 * speed to attack the trespassers. 
The apes reach the party just after the missile 
attacks have ended. That action lasts one 
round. Keep track of remaining arrows (units 
A and D are out of spears). 

Action 3: Subsequent Attacks 

If any player character attempts to leave 
the circle, the archers from units B and C 
prevent his escape by concentrating their 
shots on him. That action lasts as long as 
there are at least two apes alive. Keep 
track of remaining arrows. 

Action 4: First Natives 1 Charge 

As soon as there is only one ape alive (or 
they are all dead), units B and C discharge 


two more rounds of arrows on the party. 
Unit A charges the adventurers, reaching 
them just after the missile attacks have 
been performed. The reserve unit (R) 
moves to unit As previous position (see 
arrow #2 on Battle Diagram). Thai action 
lasts one round. Keep track of remaining 
arrows. 

Action 5: Subsequent Attacks 

Same as Action 3 r except that it lasts as 
long as there are at least five natives still 
fighting. Keep track of remaining arrows. 

Action 6: Second Native's Charge 

As soon as there are less then 5 natives 
still fighting the party, units B and C fire 
two rounds of arrows. Unit R hurls one 
round of spears and charges and reaches 
the party at the time the arrow discharge 
ends. Sub-units H and W move in to unit 
R's previous position. That action lasts 
one round. Keep track of remaining spears 
and arrows. 

Action 7: Unit R Retreat and Second 
Apes' Charge 

Once units H and W are in place, an order is 
shouted and remnants of unit R break off 
combat to return to their former position, 
forming a line in front of the two sub-units. To 
prevent the party from pursuing unit R, the 
witch doctors send their five apes charging 
into the fray. That action lasts one round. 

Action 8: Witch Doctors Support 

The lesser witch doctors use their spells 
to heal wounded warriors from unit R, 
while the Big Witch Doctor casts a chant 
spell. While the apes keep on fighting the 
party* those attempting to break out will 
have to deal first with unit B and C archers. 

During the following rounds* the witch 
doctors keep on casting attack spells 
against the party, until there is only one 
surviving ape, The use of their spells is up 
to the DM. Keep track of remaining 
arrows and spells. 

Action 9: Chiefs Party Charge 

Once the apes have been defeated, unit H 
charges the party. The chief and the two 
higher-level natives follow the four lower- 
level ones closely, The four lower-level 
guards then split to the left and right of the 
party to circle them. The chief and his two 
body guards engage the party from the 
front side, 


Remnants of unit R and unit W stay 
behind to keep the trap closed, That action 
lasts one round* 

Action 10: General Retreat 

If the Chief is killed or captured, the Big 
Witch Doctor casts his log to lizard spell so 
the creature lumbers to confront the party. 
The Big Witch Doctor then turns invisible 
and uses his levitation spell to further his 
chances of escape. All remaining units run 
away at top speed to the village. Lesser 
witch doctors will use their remaining cure 
light wounds spells at first opportunity. 

If the party of adventurers threatens to 
break out of the trap prior to Action 10* then 
unit R (if available) and units W and H may 
respond by moving to reinforce the weak 
spot. 

In this case, the global plan cannot be exe 
cuted* so proceed to Action 10. If some player 
characters try to escape by air* then the witch 
doctors cast their long range spells and all 
units hurl their missile weapons, tf the party 
flies in direction of the village (either escaping 
from the trap or arriving to Encounter 3) play 
Action 10 above* Otherwise, the natives 
spread out to have about 10 yards between 
each, and attempt to stay near the flying 
adventurers until they are far from the village. 

The plan of attack given above is a best case 
plan illustrative of the organizational abilities 
of the Kawibusas. It is unlikely that events will 
go exactly according to the Kawibusas' plans. 
What will probably happen is that after the ini 
tial confrontation, the adventurers will man 
age to get off some high-level spells that will 
tear the attacking savages apart. In such case* 
the retreat situation will be applicable. It must 
be said that although the Kawibusas are sav 
age* evil cannibals, they are brave to a fault* 
and bowmen and warriors will individually sac 
rifice themselves to assure the escape of the 
others. In such case, about one in five will halt 
and confront the enemy* while the remainder 
continue to retreat. 

Treasure 

Each ape has a collar that is equal to 3 
pounds weight and 20 gp value. Each warrior 
wears one piece of crude gold jewelry per 
level. Value is from 50-300 gp per piece. The 
same is true for all witch doctors* but jewelry 
is equal to combined cleric and magic-user 
levels. 


12 









Questioning a Kawibusa 

Any warrior questioned, even by magic 
questioning after death, can answer only the 
following questions: 

The name of the tribe. The number of war 
riors in the tribe: "More than many hands " 
They have "mighty" witch doctors. Their 
chief is "invincibleTheir great deity, Oonga, 
will punish those who are enemies. Humans, 
apes, swine, and even fat lizards are sacrificed 
to Oonga. A witch doctor questioned will 
know the above, with the following additional 
information: 

Materials for magic are kept in the Big Witch 
Doctor's palace. There are over 20 "hands" of 
warriors in the tribe. Headmen will know tlie 
same sort of information as regular warriors, 
although they will know that there "over 20 hands 
of fighters." The BWD and his two top assistants 
will know that there is "treasure for Oonga in the 
twin stone sacrifice posts." 

All questioned must be magically forced or 
tricked into talking. All know that the survi 
vors of the tribe hide somewhere to seek 
revenge, but the place is not set. All also 
know that there are another 10 giant carnivo 
rous apes with the concealed survivors. 

Notes on the Big Witch Doctor 

The BWD is cunning, vicious, untrustwortliy, 
and evil, but intelligent. He holds his power 
through blackmail and terror. One weakness in 
his setup is that the ritual enabling him to visit 
Oonga does not work. The tribe believes he still 
visits Oonga and brings back the sacred word, hi 
fact, he knows the ritual is incomplete, therefore 
useless, and carries treasure to a secret com 
partment in the Ancient Stone Pillar (Encounter 
20), If his tribe were to find out he actually 
couldn't contact Oonga, he would be Sunday din 
ner; so he will do anything to keep his coven 
That includes delaying a ritual demanded by a 
powerful and victorious party because of the 
"wrong" position of moons, the season, etc... If 
given no other alternative, the BWD wiU require 
some "very, very* minor" scriptures from the 
two other tribes of the isle in order to perform 
the ritual-see the Ancient Stone Pillar, 
Encounter 20. 

5. The Village Compound 

This is a general encounter that does not 
appear on the map. For the next encounter 
refer to Encounter 6, Grove of Fruit-Bearing 
Tirees. During the ambush (Encounter 4), the 
village is guarded by unit E. It is identical to 
unit B in all respects. There are also several 


witch doctors (equivalent to unit W), whose 
highest level spell-caster would replace the 
Big Witch Doctor in case he is killed or cap 
tured. Similarly, there are several guards 
(equivalent to unit H) whose highest level 
character would replace the chief in case he is 
killed or captured. 

If the party has broken through the ambush, 
the natives guarding the village will gather 
with the rest of the tribe, and hide away from 
the village, only leaving scouts to observe the 
party's acts in the village. 

There are two other groups of natives, 
units F and G, gone away raiding some other 
isle. F is equivalent to unit A. and G to unit B. 
They will return after the party has left the 
peninsula, beyond the great wall. 


Your party has managed to win through 
to this part because you are rugged and 
resourceful You have a feeling that the 
test of your courage and ability has actually 
just begun as you gaze at the area before 
you, the natives home grounds. There is a 
slight rise in the ground here, and you can 
see a fair portion of the native village, it 
sprawls along the right hand side of the 
track-palm groves, cultivated patches 
surrounded by thorn hedges* and a log 
stockade surrounding grass huts, The 
place appears totally deserted. No natives 
are in sight, no smoke rises from the vil 
lage. There are no animals to be seen. 

About a mile ahead is the massive wall 
which* along with natural rock formations* 
serves to screen off this peninsula from 
the main portion of the island. Even at this 
distance you can see that the structure is 
pierced by a mighty gate of some sort. 


6. Grove of Fruit-Bearing 
Trees 


There are small copses of palm trees here, 
heavy with fruit. These are evidently main 
tained by the natives as a principal food 
source. \bu see bananas, mangos teens, and 
many sorts that you do not recognize. 


7. Cultivated Areas 


There are fairly large areas of cultivation 
surrounding the village. These plots are 
fenced by thorny and spiked bush around 
the outside perimeter-probably to keep 


out marauding animals-and run along the log 
palisade so as to be protected on all sides. 
The natives seem to be growing various 
types of tubers, globular fruit-bearing vines* 
and several other sorts of vegetables. 


8. Roofed Platforms 


A pair of platforms* each about 15 feet 
wide and twice as long stand on stilts that 
place their surfaces over 20 feet above the 
ground. These roofed structures of palm 
logs are evidently guard posts for the vil 
lage. You note crude ladders placed against 
these structures, and it is evident that 
these ladders can be drawn up so as to pro 
tect those atop the platforms, They flank 
an entrance to a hedged area, and there is 
abatis made of logs and thorn bush drawn 
parallel to the path that leads toward the 
village. This indicates that the whole sec 
tion can be fenced off* but whether against 
raiders or predators, you don't know, 


9. Meadow-Like Area 


As you pass through the platform- 
guarded entrance , your party sees that the 
area beyond is a well-grazed field, much 
the same as the commons you are so famil 
iar with on your own world. Several large 
lizards are scattered about the field* sleep 
ing or slowly grazing. 


These are basically vegetarian reptiles* and 
the Kawibusas raise them for meat animals. 
However* as with any sort of their kind, these 
giant lizards will eat flesh if given the opportu 
nity. They have been left in this area to graze* 
and the stupid creatures are slowly making their 
way to the exit in order to expand their feeding. 
This movement might well be interpreted as an 
attack by the unwary adventurers. If the party 
simply moves along the trail, ignoring die liz 
ards, they in turn will ignore the party. If die 
adventurers attack* move off the path, or simply 
dump together to see what happens, the lizards 
will attack. The first blood of any sort will bring 
all these creatures rushing to attack, and only 
when all are dead will such attacks cease. There 
are eight giant lizards here. 

Naturally, the natives hope the interlopers 
allow themselves to be attacked by the liz 
ards, for whatever weakens the strangers is 
good for the Kawibusas. 


13 
















10. Village's Gate 


There is a stout gate before you. The logs 
have long, sharp bones set into them, so any 
incautious creature thrusting against the por 
tal will impale itself on the thickly set projec 
tions. The stockade wall continues above the 
door, which is about 8 feet high-one-half the 
height of the wall proper. 


The gate opens inward, but it is barred from 
inside, as the natives fled their village by using 
ladders to climb over the walls at the eastern 
edge of the compound. A knock spell will open 
the way. The bones can be hacked and broken 
off T and then brute strength used lo force the 
gate open. The party can take the ladders 
from Encounter 8 (Roofed Platforms) and 
climb to the top of the palisade that way. Obvi 
ously, they can utilize all sorts of magical 
means to otherwise gain access to the place. 

Note : The area marked 10 southwest of 
Encounter 16 (Secondary Entrance) is exactly 
the same as this area* 

11. Inner Perimeter of the 
Compound 


The entire inside perimeter of the palm 
log wall is provided with a catwalk about 12 
feet above the ground. This walkway is 
about 6 feet wide and formed of slender 
logs supported at regular intervals by log 
poles and braces. There are many rude 
ladders allowing easy access to the defen 
sive position. This structure is completely 
caged by stout poles, so that the whole 
might possibly provide additional shelter if 
the grass huts and lodges were insufficient 
to house all of the natives. You note that 
there are doors standing open along this 
cagework, as if the inhabitants left in 
haste, forgetting to even shut their doors. 


There are also meat animals of the Kawihu- 
sas. Eight giant boars are penned occasionally 
under the catwalk of the compound wail* but 
are always allowed to freely roam anywhere 
within the palisade at night-to dean up the 
garbage and manure and to act as guards. 
These brutes will attack the party immedi 
ately, as the adventurers do not smell right. 

There is a total of eight groups of eight giant 
boars roaming throughout the compound. The 
party will be attacked by one such group at a 
time, once per tum after the round they suc 


ceed in slaying a group, while they wander 
around outside of Area 13, Once the adven 
turers enter Area 13. they will be attacked by 
all of the remaining giant boars, if any. The 
first group will be in the center part of the 
area, and each successive group will join the 
fray at intervals of five rounds. 

If the party completes a circuit of the wall, 
they will find that there are a dozen slave pens 
located under Lhe walkway. Seven of these 
prisons are empty, one contains three male 
cavemen from Area 12, while that adjacenL to 
it holds five females and two children. The 
three others imprison a total of 18 native-like 
men, women, and children. All of these cap 
tives are fat and drugged into lethargy from 
feeding, the drug being from the sap of one of 
the palm trees. None can be conversed with 
unless some magical means is used. The cave 
dwellers will tell of their home area and lead 
the party' there if they are asked to do so. The 
drug will wear off in a day, but they will not be 
useful fighters in any event as it will take a 
week or so for them to recover. The natives 
resembling the Kawibusas are from other 
nearby islands. They cannot be of assistance. 
The same is true of them regarding recovery' 
from the drug and return to fitness. 

12. Stilted Bamboo and Grass 
Long Houses 


This lodge is set on poles so that it is 
about 15 feet above the ground. Ladders 
at either end permit easy access to the 
building above. 


Mention that it could also serve as a guard 
tower if the lodge is one of those built against 
the compound wall 


The walls go only about four feet up, so 
it is easy to see out of the structure, and 
missiles could be effectively sent from this 
position. The place is about 60 x 30 feet, 
and there are grass sleeping mats, day and 
shell vessels, wooden containers, and 
straw baskets scattered about. There 
appears to be nothing of value here. 


There is nothing worthwhile. Warriors wear 
their treasure and carry their weapons. There 
will be some food and palmnut beer here, but 
little else except as noted. 


13. Inner Compound 

Don't forget the possibility of giant boar 
attack here! 

This area of beaten earth is evidently 
where the natives of the village conducted 
most communal activity-cooking, handi 
work, meetings, and festivities. It is sur 
rounded by the stilted huts and lodges, but 
at the western edge you note several far 
larger structures, round, but hardly huts. 
These, and the huge stone in the center of 
the cleared area, are the only notable fea 
tures. 


The stone is hollowed and used for roasting 
'longpig " the cannibals* most prized repast. 

14. Great Raised Round 
House 


This bamboo and grass structure is fully 20 
feet above ground. It is about 50 feet or so in 
diameter, and it has a balcony about 3 feet 
wide surrounding an enclosed middle por 
tion. There is no ladder leading up to the 
structure, but there is a place where the 4- 
foot-high balcony wall is open, so it is evident 
that means of entrance has been removed. 
This is by far the largest round structure you 
have seen in the village, so you assume it is 
the residence of its headman. 


Loose inside the Griefs dwelling is his giant 
carnivorous ape watchdog, left there to cause 
maximum harm to any trespassers. 

This creature is monstrous in size and fero 
cious in the extreme. As it scents or hears the 
adventurers, it will crouch near the entrance 
in utter silence. As soon as any character 
steps into Lhe building, the ape will attack, It is 
effectively a monster of 12 hit dice, and it will 
gain + 2 on all of its initial attacks due to being 
prepared for a victim. 

Contents of the Chiefs Hut There are 
bamboo and wooden furnishings of no particu 
lar value. Some carved wood and pottery 
statues and idols are valuable. There are a 
dozen of these objects, each of about one 
cubic foot volume and about five pounds 
weight. Value to a collector in a large city will 
be from 1.000 to 10,000 gp. There are also 
several objects of beaten, raw gold and 
roughly polished diamonds. The gold is about 
30 gp weight and 20 gp value, the diamonds 


14 
















number 10 and are 1,000 pp each. If left in the 
figurines, each object has a jewerly value of base 
12,000 gp, plus 10%-1O0% depending on the 
collector they are offered to, There are carved 
wooden dubs, stone axes, masks, and ceremo 
nial dress which wifl also be of value to a collector 
of such materials. For game purposes, assume 
there are 20 of this sort of object* each of about 
two cubic feet volume and five pounds weight. 
Value of each such piece will range from 1,000 to 

4,000 gp. 

Otherwise the area is partitioned off into 
four rooms, The initial one is a large audience/ 
daytime activity room. Directly behind it is a 
smaller bed chamber. To either side of this 
sleeping area are rooms which housed the 
Chiefs wives and concubines. All have grass 
mats, clay and wood vessels, woven baskets 
and boxes, etc. There are heaps of fruit, pal- 
moil beer in several pottery jars, and so on, 
but nothing else of value, (See Illustration 2 
above.) 

There are several large dwellings near that 
of the Chief. They are the houses of the sub- 
chiefs and principal warriors. Although more 
spacious than others in the village, they have 
no treasure.*.the Chief gets it all! 


15. Second Largest Great 
Round Dwelling 


Towering nearly 60 feet in the air, this 
place is dearly the second largest struc 
ture in the native village. 


(Description of this place can be taken from 
Area 14, w T ith the diameter just slightly 
smaller.) 


The interior is dimly illuminated by sun 
light filtering in between the bamboo of the 
walls. There are dozens of bone, stone, 
pottery, wood, and woven containers lit 
tering the main room. With them are 
masks, carven idols, stuffed reptiles, and 
all sorts of like materials which might be 
used by a barbaric witch doctor. That this 
place Is the dwelling of the tribe's main 
cleric is undoubtable. 


As the party starts to poke around, several 
of the stuffed reptiles will come alive* for the 
Big Witch Doctor has set them as guards for 
his lodge. Those four giant spitting snakes are 
quite small for their sort, but fast and 


equipped with deadly venom. Each will first 
spit, and thereafter they will race forward to 
strike with fangs. 

Treasure: Use the treasure listing of the 
Chief for this area also. There is an ape idol of 
weed set with two ruby eyes worth 1,000 gp 
base value each. As an intact object, it has 
two-cubic-foot volume* 10 pounds weight, 
and a market value of 3,000-12,000 gp, 
depending on the collector bidding-four max 
imum interested bidders is a good rule of 
thumb in all such instances. 

Contents of the place are unremarkable, 
save thaL the smaller containers will have spell 
components for all witch doctor spells, plus 
the special unusual spells given on page 48 and 
the two new ones. Quantities wiU be from 17- 
24 components usages. Magic spells are writ 
ten on the backs of large palm leaves. These 
leaves are hung on the avails, along with hun 
dreds of others, to serve as separators 
between rooms. Of course, writing faces 
inward* not outward. These will not be 
located except by careful search of all walls 
which turns over the leaves. Do not give 
hints! The rest has no value for the party. 


15 












16. Secondary Entrance to 
the Natives' Compound 

See Areas 9 and 10 above for description. 
This area will be under surveillance by Kawi- 
busa scouts. No one will interfere with the 
party while they are in the village* but their 
actions and subsequent departure will be 
tracked. As they head toward Area 17 (Cer 
emonial Area), watch will be kepi. If they pass 
through the gates or otherwise venture 
beyond the wall, the scouts will report to the 
main body of the tribe. 

Assuming that the adventurers leave by the 
gates in the wall, then the tribe will be back in 
force within about one hour* dose the doors, bar 
and brace them* and man the walls with addi 
tional sheaves of arrows and spears. AH surviv 
ing warriors and witch doctors will be on hand. 

Within 1-4 days the raiding party will return. 
This will bolster the strength of the Kawibu- 
sas by one spear unit, one bow unit* 1 sub 
chief (I2th'leveJ barbarian), 2 witch doctors 
<4/2 level)* and from 3-18 conscripted cap 
tives who will join the tribe* the latter being 
equal to the Kawibusas spea r-armed 3rd-ievel 
warriors, fthrriors will have 12 spears each* 
bowmen 48 arrows each. They will use these 
weapons only when the party attempts to re 
enter the tribal peninsula. Showers of missiles 
will be used to kill or drive off the party. 

The Kawibusas will not wish to re-engage 
the adventurers in another battle! They will 
again flee to hiding if the adventurers appear 
to be able to breach the wall. All of this must 
be taken care of as the action occurs, the fore 
going being the DM guideline for actions. 

Ten giant carnivorous apes will be held teth 
ered by a like number of 3rd-level warrior 
spearmen. Lf the party forces the gates open, 
these creatures will be loosed. The apes will 
charge the party. 

17. Ceremonial Clearing 


it is most evident that this place is where 
the native tribe has its ceremonial activi 
ties. A series of rudely-hewn-or possibly 
very old and worn-steps are carved into a 
natural rock outcropping. The top of this 
stone projection has also been worked to 
form a round, flat surface with a central 
area raised to about two feet above this 
ledge. What festivals and sacrifices are 
conducted here are unknown to you. 


There is no treasure here at all. This is the 
place where the sacrifices for Oonga are deco 


rated, chanted over, and then led away to 
Area 20 (Ancient Stone Pillar), 

18. Titanic Gates 


There is a massive wall of well-dressed 
stone blocks, now moss covered and 
showing vegetation where wind and 
weather have aged these massive cubes of 
rock and allowed growth to take place. 
Each block is at least six feet long and 
about half as high, and all seem to be set 
without mortar. The builders were impres 
sively skilled in masonry and engineering 
both! It must be centuries old-who 
knows? In the center of its length are two 
valves of beams bound and studded by 
some unknown* purplish metal. Each of 
these gates is about 36 feet tall and some 
12 feet wide, Each is pierced with a small 
port at eye level, the aperture being heav 
ily haired by the same purple metal, so 
that an observer is able to view what lies 
beyond, but nothing larger than a cat could 
slip between the bars. 

Closer observation shows that the wall 
itself is nearly 40 feet thick at its base and 
over 20 feet thick at its summit* 80 feet 
above, The base of the barrier is hewn 
from living rock, with huge stones, 12 to 
18 feet long and half as broad and deep* 
forming the first four tiers. A mighty plinth 
supports the archway for the gate which 
leads to the isle beyond. The metal of the 
gate is no harder than tempered steel- 
magical weapons score it -but the stuff 
seems corrosion resistant, for it gleams as 
if it were new and polished yesterday* yet 
it is obviously very old. 

The beams that compose the twin doors 
are more than a foot and a half thick, black 
with age* and of some wood you have 
never seen before. The stuff is dense and 
hard, nearly metallic. Possibly some 
ancient dweomer was cast upon the timber 
in order to assure it would last through the 
ages. 

Huge stone blocks jut from the inner 
face of the wall on either side of the valves* 
for the gates are set flush with the inner 
face of the barrier, and at about 12 foot 
height there is a channel for the tremen 
dous log which bars these doors against 
unwanted entrance. This beam of roughly 
squared timber is about 4 feet high and 2 
feet thick. There are great rings set near 
its extreme end, some 40 feet from the 


terminus near the gateway. Thick plaits of 
heavy rope loop through these rings, so 
that by sheer muscle power the beam can 
be dragged along the greased stone chan 
nel to hold fast the entrance or allow the 
valves to swing inward. 


It is worth noting that while any intruders 
attempting to force entry would be safe from 
overhead fire because of the thickness of the 
wall, the 38-foot-long tunnel entrance w T ouId 
provide them with no shelter from missiles 
discharged from the barred sets of two wim 
dows cut in each door. 

19. Primitive Scaffolding 


There must have once been a more fin 
ished means of attaining the summit of the 
mighty wall, but now the only means of 
reaching its top is by means of palm log 
scaffolding that rests against the stone 
blocks. Although flimsy appearing* the 
structure is actually quite sturdy. 

The stout trunks are set to form a means 
of reaching a platform about 65 feet above 
the ground, and from this platform several 
ladders provide access to the top of the 
barrier. There is a similar construction on 
the opposite side of the gate. By utilizing 
both* nimble tribesmen could ascend to the 
top in waves of ten, each wave taking 
about ten minutes from ground to wall 
summit. If a constant stream of climbers 
were to be supposed, 100 defenders could 
man this the wall within 20 minutes, per 
haps less if they were very agile. The wall 
is surmounted by a low stone parapet that 
is a foot thick and three high. There is a 
great metal gong of cylindrical shape sus 
pended here* and beside it are two log 
drums of native craftsmanship. Striker and 
mallets are adjacent to these devices. 


20. Ancient Stone Pillar 


There is a strange stone pillar, actually a 
base* step, and twin columns at 70 yards 
distance from the top of the great stone 
barricade that severs the peninsula from 
the main body of the island. From where 
you are* you note that there are oddly 
carved figures and glyphs upon it, but 
vines and distance make any detailed 
observation impossible. 


16 














If the party moves to within a few feet of the 
place, they will see following: 


This edifice is obviously a sacrificial 
place, for the twin stones have manacles of 
the purplish metal set into them via chains. 
They appear long unused, however, for 
they are overgrown by some sort of 
creeper. Hanging from the same great sta 
ple, though, are crude ropes, and there 
are others scattered about in broken bits 
around the area. Possibly the savages are 
not able to operate the manacles, but they 
still offer sacrificial victims bound with 
rope instead of metal. Some of the decora 
tions on the pillars show strange beasts- 
dragon-like figures, things with hat wings, 
and gorilla shapes. The glyphs are worn 
and totally unfamiliar, so it seems profitless 
to attempt to decipher them. 


If the party insists and uses a spell to learn 
what these writings say, translate thus: 
"Abandon all hope ye who are here. .. but fight 
like the blazes anyway! Zagyg!" 

If the party approaches close enough to 
touch these upthrust liths, then they will note 


some dull glittering beneath the creepers and 
vines which grow upon them. The posts are 
decorated with uncut gems. There are a total 
of 20 diamonds of base 5,000 gp value, 20 
rubies, 20 sapphires, and 20 oriental 
emeralds-the latter three gem types being of 
1,000 gp base. These stones must be cut and 
polished to go up in value. Cutting will destroy 
10% of the stones, but the rest may then be 
checked for normally. Otherwise they may be 
disposed of at normal market rates. 

Careful examination of the base area will 
also discover an area of carving that is distin 
guished by a narrow crack surrounding it. 
This piece pulls out to reveal a compartment 
behind in which there are 100 base 100 gp 
pearls hidden here by the Big Witch Doctor. 

Notes on the Ritual 

Zagyg created this pillar as a magical portal 
for Oonga and the tribal high priest. It is 
totally unaffected by mortal magic. The ape 
can use it at will to come from its lair on the 
other side of the isle, directly to the Ancient 
Stone Pillar. The portal is specifically keyed to 
Oonga and no other living being can go with 
the monster. 

The religious leader of the original tribe was 


taught the ritual that would activate the portal 
and allow the shaman to bring tribute to the 
mighty Oonga, But the previous Big Witch 
Doctor passed on part of the ritual to each of 
his sons. Unfortunately, after his death the 
tribe split t each taking one son as their reli 
gious leader. The three sons passed their part 
of the ritual to their successors. Two of them 
believe they know the entire sacred ritual 
(only the Big Witch Doctor of the Kawibusas 
knows that two other rituals exist). All three 
have tried to call Oonga and enlist his aid 
against the other tribes, but to no avail, Bach 
is convinced that the ritual is a hoax. 

To activate the magical portal, the party 
must assemble the three witch doctors and at 
the altar convince them to pronounce their 
incantation parts in turn to open the path to 
Oonga's lair (see Encounter 26). 


17 




















eyonO 


the wall 


Encounter Settings 

Once the party 7 gets past the titanic wall, they 
have left the peninsula. They are now on the 
isle's main land. AU the encounters in this section 
cover the adventure on the isle's main body. 

Check Random Encounters each time the 
party enters a new hex on the map, and once per 
night the party 1 spends in their encampment. An 
encounter will occur on a score of 10-12 <m a 
dl2, Use columns A to E on the Random 
Encounter Chart (see module cover), according 
to the terrain type the party' crosses. 

Encounter Key 

21. The Great Jungle 


From this position you are able to look at 
the wall of tropica] vegetation which lies 
east of the walk Although it appeared thick 
and unbroken, from your current vantage 
there are two trails which are apparent. A 
foot path leads northeast-it is certainly a 
track made by the savages. The other is 
more of a roadway, and the broken trees 
and crushed vegetation indicate that huge 
things travel along it* 


The Narrow Trail: If the adventurers opt to 
follow the foot path, they will be less likely to 
encounter monsters, so make checks for ran 
dom encounters only every other hex trav 
eled. If Oonga or one of the other gargantuan 
apes are indicated by the dice there will be no 
encounter, as none of these five creatures 
roam this edge of the island. The track leads 
to Area 29 (Plateau Area), it then goes to the 
easiest way to ascend the plateau area. Area 
30 (Very High Plateau Area), where the large 
tribe of cave dwellers are located. 

The Wide Trait This is the roadway of 
Oonga. His huge footprints will be visible after 
a mile or two of travel along the trail. Encount 
ers are again half as likely, as the ape tends to 
discourage other creatures intruding upon his 
path. Of course* any encounter experienced is 
as noted, for Oonga, or his ilk, are possibly 
roaming about_ 

Branches of the broad trail are all alike. The 
places where Oonga (or 'The Others" ford 
rivers are shallow 7 for them-only 10-15 feet 
deep in the main channel. The party can cross 
by magical means* swimming* or log raft. 

BuMmg Log Rafts: Assuming that there are 
those willing to do so, a raft can be built of tree 
trunks lashed with vines. This will require six man 


hours time* i,e. six men each working one hour 
five men each working one hour and 12 minutes, 
and so on. Rafis can rot be used in swamp areas. 

TraveJ by raft: Encounter checks are to be 
made once for each crossing. Each crossing 
wilJ take one hour from shore to shore* Travel 
upstream is at the rate of 1 hex/2 hours. Drift 
ing downstream is at the rate of 3 hexes/hour 
and if poling or paddling is added the rate 
increases to 4 hexes/hour. Lake travel is at 
the rate of 1 hex/hour if poling or paddling. 
Large water creatures will upset a raft when 
they score 16 or higher on their attack die 
with any mode of attack. Scores under 16 are 
simply attacks against the adventurers. 

Boat Travel: Double rates of travel for boat 
or ship movement, A boat is upset in the same 
manner as is a raft. The ship will be capsized 
only on an attack roll of 26. 

22. The Stegosaurs 

When the party is in the center of the large 
clearing, eight stegosaurs will come from a 
low spot and be visible at 40 yards distance. If 
the adventurers stand still* it is 50% probable 
that these creatures will wander off. If the 
party moves or makes loud noise, the mon 
sters will charge, turn* and tail attack, 

23. The Mosasaurs 

These two mosasaurs will attack the party 
at about the mid-point of its passage across 
the narrow neck or water* There is a 50% 
chance that the adventurers will be surprised* 
but otherwise they will get first attack. 

24. The Tyrannosaur 

This creature will appear from the jungle 
when the party is about 100 yards into the 
plains area. Unless they are looking behind* it 
will dose to between 50-80 yards before they 
hear it. The creature is dosing at its maximum 
movement rate as it is very hungry and plans 
to devour the adventurers. 

25. The Great Crevasse 


You are confronted with a crevasse-a 
ravine with a river flowing at its boulder- 
strewn bottom some 100 feet below. It runs 
out of sight to left and right. There is a huge 
log, the trunk of some forest giant, spanning 
a narrow portion of the gap. This bridge is 
about eight feet wide at the end nearest you, 
five feet or so at its terminus 70 feet distant. 


The party will undoubtedly fear that Oonga will 
appear and attack whilst they are in the process of 
crossing the log. Instead, hidden in the bush 
undergrowth of the opposite side of the crevasse, 
are the lairs of three large rninotaur lizards. 

When the party is just stepping off the end 
of the log bridge these creatures will dart out 
and attack. One will certainly go out on the log 
to get a party member there* Lizard move 
ment on the log is normal* while PCs (except 
for rangers and thieves) move at a 3" rate. 

Fighting on the Log Bridge: All attack s will be 
made at -4 on dice by non- ranger* non-thief 
characters due to balance problems. No Dexter 
ity armor class bonuses are allowed to any char 
acters. Any spell caster attempting to cast a 
spell while under attack on the log will be able to 
successfully cast only those spells with one- 
segment casting times. Any character hit three 
times in a single round will be pitched off the log* 
unless the biting score was 20. A character fall 
ing to the river below will take only 3d6 damage, 
as the water will absorb impact. However, there 
are rocks* and from 0-9 of these could be 
encountered on the way down or in the channel 
proper. Roll ldlO to find the number encoun 
tered in the fall* Each rack inflicts from 1-10 
points of additional damage. 

26. Oonga's Cavern 

When the party reaches this area by following 
the various jungle paths* all they would see is a 
normal track ending on the shores of a large 
Jake, at the bottom of a high mountain. The 
cavern entrance and the pillar are magically con 
cealed, Unless the party follows Oonga's foot 
prints to the entrance, or detects magic or illu 
sions at that particular moment, they should not 
be allowed to find Llieir way in. 

if the party arrives through the magical por 
tal (see Encounter 20* Ancient Stone Pillar), a 
pillar similar to the one in Encounter 20 and 
the cavern entrance both appear. Then read 
the following to the players: 


You have followed the track of the gigan 
tic ape to a gaping hole in the face of a 
mountain. The entrance is 40 feet wide 
and somewhat higher than it is wide. The 
place must be the lair of the creature you 
seek. 


If the party decides to explore the cave, go 
to Oonga's Lair (page 40)* to continue the 
adventure. Otherwise, follow the party's 
moves on the isle's main land with the follow 
ing encounters. 


18 








KAWIBUSAS VILLAGE 












OONGA'S LAIR 
(MAP 4) 








ReqeneRateO chapacteRS 


(Cleric, 19th level. High Priest of Celestian) 

Neutral Good Strength; 16 

Hit Points: 92 Intelligence; 16 

Armor Class; -6 Wisdom; 19 

Dexterity: 18 

XP: 2,701,001 Constitution; 16 

Movement: 12* Charisma: 17 

THACO; 9 Comeliness: 15 

Spell Immunities: Cause Fear, Charm Person, Command. Friends, Hypnotism 

+ 5 Wisdom Adj, Vs*: Beguiling, fear illusion, magic jar, mass charm possession, rulers hip, suggestion, 
tel 
epathic attack. etc. 

Magic Items: 

Potions: Climbing, Flying , Invisibility 
Scrolls: Four spells {levels 1,3, 5,7) 

Armor: + 2 plate mail, + 2 shield 
Weapons: * 5 footman s mace , + 2 hammer 


Reynard Yargrove (Reynardia) 

(Keolandish Druidess, 14th level, Great Druidess of Obad-Hai) 

Neutral Strength: 18 

Hit Points: 112 Intelligence: 15 

Armor Class:-3 Wisdom: 18 

Dexterity: 18 

X,P.: 1,600,001 Constitution: 16 

Movement: 12* Charisma; 18 

THACO: 12 Comeliness: 14 

+ 4 Wisdom Adj. Vs*: Beguiling, charm, fear, hypnosis, illusion, magic jar ; mass charming, phantasmal 
force . possession, rulers hip, suggestion , telepathic attack, etc. 

Magic Items: 

Potions: Diminution, Plant Control. Yfater Breathing 
Scrolls: Seven spells (levels 4,4,5,5,6*6,75 , Protection from ElementaJs 
Armor: + 2 Leather euir bouilie 
Protection: Cloak of Protection +5 

Weapons: f 4 Staff-Spear, + 3 scimitar, + 2 dagger, 10 Sling Bullets of Impact, + 2 Sling of Seeking 



Agatfa of Thrimeh 



Franz, Lord Torkecp (I7tWevel Fighter, Baron Torkeep, Knight Banners, Followers of He iron ecus) 

Lawful Neutral Strength: 18/58 

Hit Points: 132 Intelligence: 15 

Armor Class: *8 Wisdom: 15 

Dexterity: 18 

X,P 2,501,001 Constitution: 18 

Movement; 12' Charisma: 16 

THACO: 4 Comeliness: 13 

+ 1 Wisdom Adj. Vs*: Beguiling, charm, fear, hypnosis, illusion, magic jar mass charming, phantasmal 
force, possession, miership, suggestion, telepathic attack, etc. 

Sword Specialization: Broadsword. 5 attacks per 2 rounds at + 1/ +¦ 2: with magic girdle and 
broadsword 
* +9/ + 15: without magic girdle, with broadsword - +7/ +9. 

Magic Items: 

Potions; Extra-Healing, Fire Resistance. Speed 
Scrolls; Protection from Evil * Blindness, Holding, Petrification 
Armor: + 2 plate armor, *3 shield 

Weapons; + 4 defender broadsword (sword powers; detect enemies in 3* r, * detect magic in 3" r,, 
leaping- 
as bools-6 times/day; speech: Int 15, Ego 15): + 3 hand axe; + 2 dagger 



21 














Miscellaneous Possessions: Boots of Water Walking (as ring), Character's Relationship: 
Gauntlets of Ogre Power ( +3/ + 6), Girdle of Free Action (as ring), Knows Reynard. upstart 

Mantle of Celestian, Ring of Fire Resistance, Ring of Spell Storing 
(3, levels 2,4,6), Scarab of Protection (9 charges), Necklace of 
Prayer Beads: astralness (astral travel once/month), blessing, cur 
ing (x 2) f summoning, wind walking. 

Background: Agath is the head of the Temple of Celestian which is 
located near the village of Thru tch. This village is in the foothills of the 
Lortmih Mountains in the Principality of Ulek, In order to answer the 
summons of the Circle of Eight, it was necessary to pack up and leave 
with expeditionsness, so all handy, powerful magic items available 
were taken, but you may also select any two of the following things 
which were also on hand: 

Potion of Extra-Healing, scroll of Protection from Undead, Eyes of 
Minute Seeing, incense of Meditation. Quad s Feather Token 
(tree), Rope of Entanglement. 


Miscellaneous Possessions: Amulet of Proof against Det . & Loc. f 
Bag of Tricks (rat-lion), Figurines of Wondrous Power Headband of 
Comprebending Languages, Necklace of Missiles (1/10, 2/8 , 2/6, 
2/4), Pouch of Carrying (holds as much as a backpack), Ring of 
Invisibility, Ring of the Ram, Slippers of Spider Climbing. Stone 
Controlling Earth Elemental 

Special Abilities: Identify animal, identify plant, identify pure water, 
normal movement through plan growth, no trace; assume animal 
form, 3/day, + 1/day small one (avian, mammal, reptile "avian or 
mammal), (removes 10%-60% of damage); immune to woodland crea 
ture charms; speaks: centaur, dryad, elvish, faun, gnome, green 
dragon, hill giant, nixie, pixie, treantish; uses clerical weapons. 


Background: All of Keoland and the states immediately to the east 
(Bold of the Sea Princes, Yeomanry, Sterich, Geoff) are your purview. 
While often abroad in the see, your favorite place is your grove deep 
within the rolling hills of the northern Dread wood Forest. Here you 
were contacted by the messenger of the Circle of Eight, The demand 
was so urgent that you left with all due haste t taking only your more 
powerful magic items. You can add any one of the following to your 
magical gear: 

+ 2 Magical Flail. Broom of Firing, Potion of Treasure Finding 

Character's Relationships: 

Thinks Agath is sanctimonious; 
strangely attracted to Rowetia. 


Miscellaneous Possessions: Cube of Force. Dust of Appearance Character's Relationship: 

(10) f Girdle of Frost Giant Strength. Decanter of Endless Water. Knows Rowena as "desirable but out of 
place " 
Periapt of Wound Closure, Ring of Feather Falling, Ring of Free f 

Action, Sheet of Smallness 

Background: Tor keep lies north of the city of CritwaU in the north* 
eastern marches of the Shield Lands. Your stronghold, Torkeep, is on 
the bluffs which overlook the Rite ns a River near the only ford within 
many leagues. It is a very active place, with raids and skirmishes going 
on continually. Although the place is strong and heavily manned, you 
fear leaving it for any reason, but a summons from the Council of Eight 
is not to be taken lightly, so you reluctantly agree to undertake the Nyr 
Dyw In addition to those most precious items you have with you, there 
are other lesser magic items which are available. You decide to select 
four to take along: 

Potion of Healing, Potion of Red Dragon Control, Ring of Swimming ; 

Dust of Disappearance, four Javelins of Piercing, Net of Entrapment, 

Crossbow of Distance, 12 Crossbow Bolts + 2, Military Fork + 3 

1965 TSR, Inc All Rights Reserved 


22 






Bility 


Adjustments 


Ranger 

Outdoor Tracking Modifiers 

Soft enough to hold impressions (footprints, pawprints, etc*) of crea 


ture being tracked ,.... + 20% 

Allows occasional marks of obvious signs of passage (broken twigs, 
bent grass, etc.) ......+ 10% 

Prevents all but the minutest traces of passage ..... -50% 

Other Modifiers 

For each creature beyond the first group being tracked___ .-05% 

For every hour of precipitation that has fallen on the trail between 
tracker and quarry ........-25% 

Indoor Tracking Modifiers 

Din Floor, or unused and dusty area ....<..+ 20% 

Wooden floor, or area which allows some occasional indication of pas 
sage .............. .0% 


Stone floor which prevents all but the minutest traces of passage'50% 

Other Modifiers 

For each creature beyond the first in the group being tracked . + 02% 

For passing over an area where other creatures cross or overtrack 
trail. .**..*,. ......... .-50% 

!n any case, if intelligent efforts have been made to conceal a trail 
where surface condition already is -50% or worse, no tracking will suc 
ceed. 

Movement Rates While Tracking 


Obvious tracks, good illumination,.....3/4 of normal 

Obvious tracks, poor illumination....................2/3 of normal 

Occasional tracks, good illumination.2/3 of normal 

Occasional tracks, poor illumination........._ .... .1/2 of normal 

Faint tracks, good illumination_. t(2 of normal 

Faint tracks, poor illumination.....1/4 of normal 


Definitions: 

Obvious: 71% or better chance to track 
Occasional: 31% or better chance to track 
Faint: 30% or less chance to track 

Poor illumination: anything less than daylight and greater than total 
darkness. Tracking is not possible in total darkness unless some non 
visual evidence is available. 


Humanoid/Giant Class Opponents 


bugbear 

goblin 

ogre mage 

cyclopskin 

grimlock 

ogrillon 

dune stalker 

hobgoblin 

ore 

ettin 

kobold 

quaggoth 

flind 

meazel 

tasloi 

giants 

norker 

troll 

gibberling 

gnoll 

ogre 

xv art 


Thieves' Abilities Modifiers 

Effects of Armor on Thief Functions 


Armor Worn 




Elfin 

Studded or 

Thief Function 

None(l) 

Chain(2) 

Padded (2) 

Pick Pockets 

+ 5% 

-20% 

-30% 

Open Locks 

- 

-5% 

40% 

Find/Remove Traps 

- 

-5% 

40% 

Move Silently 

+10% 

40% 

-20% 

Hide in Shadows (3) 

+ 5% 

40% 

-20% 

Hear Noise 

- 

-5% 

-10% 

Climb Walls 

+ 10% 

-20% 

-30% 

Read Languages 

- 

- 

- 


(1) This category applies when wearing bracers of defense and/or a 
cloak, but no large protective devices. 


(2) No dexterity bonuses apply to thief functions (though penalties do) 
when wearing armor other than simple leather. 

(3) Assumes that armor worn is covered by another garment. Elfin 
chain mall is light and thin, and can be worn under normal clothing. Stud 
ded leather armor is stiff, and can only be covered by a full body cloak, 


Effect of Race on Thief Functions 


Dwarf 

Elf 

Gnome 

1/2 Elf 

Halfling 

M2 Ore 

Pick Pockets 


+ 5% 

- 

+ 10% 

+ 5% 

Open Locks 

+ 10% 

'5% 

+ 5% 

- 

4 5% 

F/R, Traps 

+ 15% 

- 

4 10% 

- 

+ 5% 

Move Silently 

- 

+ 5% 

4 5% 

- 

+ 10% 

Hide in Shadow' 


+ 10% 

4 5% 

+ 5% 

+15% 

Hear Noise 


+ 5% 

4 10% 

- 

+ 5% 

Climb Walls 

40% 

- 

45% 

,- 

45% 

Read Languages 

-5% 

- 

- 

- 

-5% 


23 






















irW^MsrrS: 


J--. .. ' ¦* .ril-i^i-, 


wmmi 




layeR's jouRnal 



CURRENT HP: 


DISEASES: 


MONEY: 


DATE OF 
DEPARTURE: 


SUPPLIES (in days) 
Food: I II 11 i 

Water: Mil I T 
Mounts: [ I I I |~T 


WEEK #; 


DAILY NOTES 





CREATURES ENCOUNTERED: 


TTLX.P. CREATURES ENCOUNTERED: 


TTL X.P. 


DAY# 



CREATURES ENCOUNTERED: 


TTL X.P. CREATURES ENCOUNTERED: 


TTL X.P. 


DAY# 



CREATURES ENCOUNTERED: 

TTL X.P 

CREATURES ENCOUNTERED: 

TTL X.P. 


1985 TSR h Inc AH RigMs Reserved 











































Miscellaneous Possessions: Boots of Speed. Cloak ofElvenkind, 
Gauntlets of Shimming $ Climbing r , 2 javelins of Lightning. Quiver 
of Ehlonna, Ring of Sustenance* Rince of Warmth. Rod of cancel 
lation, B&nd of Magic Missiles (40 charges) 

Tracking:Base Chance to track outdoors (or indoors) is 10% (to a 
maximum 110% with level), 

Special Abilities: +-1 point of damage per level vs. giant dass; surprise 
50%, surprised 16 2/3%*: identify any creature's (ever observed) tracks, 
direction, numbers, pace and time of passage: determine general size, 
weight and numbers of humans and their mounts. 

Background: The Vesve Forest is currently under attack by many 
large bands of humanoids from luz. These monsters, and their Evil 
human allies, make the place a continual battlefield of Good versus 
Evil, and the position of Marshal is most important to continuing suc 
cessful actions against the invasion. Thousands of demi-humans and 


humans depend on this, and your troops number thousands, although 
they are split into many small companies. However, the Circle of Eight 
is an ally of this joint human-elven effort, and when one of their nobles 
requested your presence at Tenser's castle, you could not demure, 
despite the importance of your current charge. If you wish to round oul 
your magical gear, you may select up to three of the following items 
you have on hand: 

10 magic arrows + 1, Scroll of Protection vs. Undead, Potion of 
Invisibility* + 1 short sword, Potion of Levitation, + 1 long sword. 
Ring of Protection + 1, Wings of Flying 

Character's Relationships: Knows Franz as "stuffy but admira 
ble." Does not want druid of Obad-Hai near her. 


Miscellaneous Possessions: Beaker of Plentiful Potions (free 
action-as ring, healing, ESP, delusion), Brooch of Shielding (40 
charges), Hat ofFeather Falling (as ring), Pouch of Holding (5# wt, # 
60#/6 cu. ' capacity), Ring of Regeneration, Ring of Wizardry (2x 
6th level, + 1 on saves). Robe of Stars*, Staff of Thunder & Light 
ning (25 charges), Stone of Good Luck , Zag} f g r s Spell Component 
Case (7 usages/ day) 

Background: After adventuring for several years, considerable suc 
cesses lead to appointment as Court Magic-User of the Duchy of 
UmsL Although intrigue involving Nyrond brought your appointment 
as the magical councilor to the Joint Courts of Umst, there is no ques 
tion that your personal triumph over the Vfeird of Gnatmarsh has made 
you the most respected magic-user in many states. Now you have 
received a call for assistance from the Council of Eight. There is much 


challenge and promise in this call, so you gain Lhe permission of the 
Courts to undertake a quest. In addition to your more powerful items, 
you can select two of the following minor items from your store: 

Oh of Slipperiness, Scroll of 2 spells (1st 5th level), Bag of Trans 
muting, Helm of Comprehending Languages and Reading Magic, 
Pearl of Power (1st level), Ring of Contrariness , Hand of Paraiyza- 
tion (20 chargesK Wand of Negation 

Character's Relationships: Wishes to become member of the Cir 
cle of Eight: dislikes thieves. Does not want Agath to outshine him. 


Miscellaneous Possessions: Bag of holding <1.000#/150 cubic 
feet), Boots of Varied Tracks, Chime of Opening. 6 Darts of Hom 
ing. Gauntlets of Dexterity *, Hat of Disguise, Periapt of Proof 
against Poison ( + 4), Ring of Levitation (as boots). Wand of Magic 
Detection (40 charges), Wand of Secret Door & Trap Location 

* Gauntlets of Dexterity do not increase Dexterity to 19. 

Background: Having been raised in Hexpools, the rise to high level 
came by successes in South Province, the Iron Hills, and other nearby 
regions. Gravitating to Onwak Scant became home, and ambition and 
natural abilities soon made you the leader of all thieves there. The 
place is smallish, however, and rather boring, all things considered. 
When you chanced to be asked to participate in a daring, dangerous 
undertaking, you hastened to the rendezvous to be certain that no 
other of your profession arrived before you, as the challenge and the 
promise of real treasure is one which you will not miss! Not wlsliing to 
alert the Guild to your departure, you take your principal items, and 
select any three of the additional lesser items you have handy: 


Potions: of Poison, Stveef Hater, Fire Giant Strength. Human 
Control, Humanoid Control; Philtre of Love 
Scrolls: one 2ndTevel druid spell, one 4th-level illusionist spell, 
two magic-user spells (1st, 4th levels) 

Rings: Delusion, Fire Resistance, Protection +1; Spell Storing 
(Cure Light Wounds, Protection from Evil) 

Rods, et* al.: Rod of Beguiling (3 charges). Wand of Illumination. 
Wand of Winder 

Miscellaneous: Bag of Beans, Boots of Elevenkmd, Hom of Bub 
bles, Necklace of Strangulation. Pipes of the Sewers, Rope of 
Climbing, + 1 dagger ,; +1 long sword 

Character's Relationships: Feels inadequate and inferior to others 
and thus desires to prove himself. Finds Rowena very attractive* Dis 
likes Agath and Reynard 


27 


T9S5 TSR, Inc AH Rights Reserved 





(Hanger 16th level, Lady Marshal of the Vesve Forest) 


Neutral Good (Eh In nil a) 
Hit Points; 122 
Armor Class; -7 (or -9) 

X,R: 2,601,001 
Movement: 12" or 24* 
THACO: 5 


Strength: 18/50 
intelligence: 17 
Wisdom: 17 
Dexterity; 18 
Constitution; 18 
Charisma: 14 
Comeliness: 18 


+ 3 Wisdom Adj* Vs*: Beguiling, charm, fear, hypnosis, illusion , magic jar, mass charming, 
phantasmal forces* possession t rulership, suggestion, telepathic attack, etc. 


Magic Items; 

Potions; Clairvoyance. Flying. Healing, Wafer Breathing 
Scrolls: Pro lection from Lycanthropes, Magic. & Possession 
Armor: + 5 adamantite dmntmii * 2 buckler 

Weapons: + 2 bow, 24 composite long elven arrows + 2, 18 am>ivs + 5, 
4 Arrows of Slaying (to be selected); + 3 battle axe, +2/+ 3 dagger 



Rowena of the Silverbrow 


(Magic-User 18th level* Arch-Mage of L'msl) 


Wames Starcoat 


Neutral (Zagyg) 
Hit Points: 62 
Armor Class: -4 

X*R: 3,001,001 
Movement: 12 * 
T1L4CO: 13 


Strength: 15 
Intelligence: 19 
Wisdom: 16 
Dexterity: 18 
Charisma: 17 
Comeliness: 11 


Spell Immunities: 1st level Illusion/Phantasm spells 

+ 2 Wisdom Adj, V*.: Beguiling, charm, fear, hypnosis , illusion, magic jar. mass charming, phantasmal 
force, possession* rulership, suggestion, telepathic attack, etc. 


Magic Items: 

Potions: Gaseous Form * Growth, Fire Resistance. Invisibility 

Scrolls: Six spells (levels 3,4,5*6,7<8), plus l spell level 9, Protection from Demons, Devils 

Magic Protections: Bracers of Defense AC 3; Boots of Striding & Springing, + J; Cloak of Displacement 

+ 2 

Weapons: + 3 dagger, + 2 knife 



(Qnwalic Thief, 15th level, Thieves' Guildmaster of Scant) 


Neutral (Olidammara) 
Hit Points: 70 
Armor Class: -4 

X.P.: 1,321,001 
Movement: 12* 
THACO: 14 


Strength: 18 
Intelligence: 15 
Wisdom: 13 
Dexterity: 18 
Constitution: 16 
Charisma: 13 
Comeliness: 16 


Special Abilities: Backstab at 4 4 "to hit", 5x damage; 
75% chance reading scrolls (druid, illusionist, magic-user) 

Magic Items: 

Potions: Clairvoyance. Extra-Healing, Treasure Finding 
Scrolls; Protection from ESP,[ Magic, Undead 
Armor: non-magical Elfin chammail 
Protections: Ring of Protection + 1/ + 5 
Weapons: + 5 short sword  * 3 dagger 


Rakehell Chert 



28 















CAVES OF THE BIRD PEOPLE 
(MAP 3) 

Scale: 1 hex * 10 yards 








27. Plateau Area 


The hills here are set apart from the sur 
rounding terrain. They are high and cliff-like, 
as if a fault dropped away to leave their sheer 
bluffs to serve as a wall against the monsters 
on the lower land. The vegetation here is 
more familiar appearing, less exotic, and the 
air is slightly cooler and less damp. 


This area is the territory of a group of cave 
dwellers, often raided by the Kawibusas. 
These people are basically hostile and excep 
tionally alert because of this. However, they 
will not necessarily attack the adventurers 
unless the latter enter their home area, the 
"X ,h hex in the general area. 

After an initial volley of spears, lower-level 
hunters work to the flanks while the higher-level 
ones base another volley. Melee with dubs then 
takes place (these weapons do damage equal to 
morning stars with standard bonuses for 
strength). Armor class is due to dexterity and 
hide garments worn for a base AC 9. 

If seen, greeted in a friendly fashion, and 
some means of communication is established, 
the cave barbarians will be reserved and wary, 
hut not hostile. This assumes that there are no 
Kawibusas or their ilk with the party, for the 
cave dwellers are larger, somewhat lighter, and 
easily distinguished from the savages and their 
cousins of the nearby islands. If shown any prop 
erty that obviously belonged to the Kawibusas, 
and told that the party killed their foes, these 
cave dwellers will become indifferent to the 
adventurers, and if they ask the cavemen, and 
offer bribes or furnish assistance in hunting, the 
party will be taken to the caves to speak with the 
chief and shamans. 

The Great Shaman 

The Great Shaman of the cave dwellers is 
very old and rather cantankerous. He has 
refused to turn over the secret ritual to his 
successor and retire as is custom, for he has 
an irrational fear that the tribe will kill him 
when his usefulness is ended. He will see the 
characters' request as a way to show his 
importance and will readily agree to help. 
However, he is prone to forgetfulness and 
senile ravings, and there is a 50% chance at 
any given moment that he may forget who the 
PCs are, what he agreed to do, or even the 
ritual itself, Stress will always cause him to 
forget the ritual, so magical or physical force 
cannot be used to take it from him, nor will he 
reveal it after death. 


The Cave Dwellers (Barbarians) 


Hunting Party 


Number 

AC 

Move 

Level 

THACO 

HP 

Weapons 

Damage 

Bonus 

4 

5 

15* 

2 

(19V 

22 

spear, dub 

+ 1 

3 

5 

15* 

3 

(18*) 

33 

spear, club 

+ 1 

2 

5 

15* 

4 

(16*) 

44 

2 spears, club 

+ 2 

1 

3 

15* 

5 

(15*) 

55 

2 spears, club 

+ 2 

1 

3 

15* 

6 

(14*) 

66 

2 spears, dub 

+ 3 

1 

3 

15* 

7 

(12*) 

77 

2 spears, dub 

+ 3 

* Base score needed 

to hit Armor Class 

0 . 







Tribal Strength 



Number 

AC 

Move 

Level 

THACO 

HP 

Weapons 

Damage 

Bonus 

4 

5 

15' 

3 

(18*) 

33 

spear, dub 

+ 1 

2 

5 

15' 

4 

(16*) 

44 

2 spears, dub 

+ 2 

2 

3 

15' 

5 

(15*) 

55 

2 spears, dub 

+ 2 

2 

3 

15' 

6 

(14*) 

66 

2 spears, dub 

+ 3 

2 

3 

15' 

7 

(12*) 

77 

2 spears, dub 

+ 3 

2 

3 

15* 

8 

(11*) 

88 

2 spears, dub 

+ 4 

1 M 

1 

15" 

9 

(10*) 

99 

2 spears, dub 

+ 5 

1 *** 

2 

15' 

10 

(8*) 

110 

2 spears, dub 

+ 6 

k+) 

5 

15' 

5 

(17*) 

50 

club 

+ 1 

k+ +> 

3 

15' 

7 

(15*) 

80 

club 

+ 1 


* Base score to hit Armor Class 0 
** Sub-chief of tribe 
*** Chief of tribe 


(+) Little Shaman - 3rd-level cleric: 

Cure Light Wbunds(x2), Protection vs. Evil, Chant 

( + +) Big Shaman = 5th-level cleric: 

Cure Light \\bunds(x 2 ). Lightix 2), Protection vs. Evil. Chant, Produce Flame, Speak with Ani 
mals, Prayer 


Shamen will, after protecting themselves 
from evil, use their curative spells on leaders 
and strong types only. They will use prayer 
and chant as soon as possible, if needed. Note 
that these shamen have a mix of druidicai 
spells (cf. Encounter 9). 

Cave dwellings will be above ground level at 
about 20 foot height. No direct entry is there 
fore possible by normal means, until the ledge 
has been ascended. Attackers attempting to 
scale to cave entrances are attacked first by 
hurled boulders which hit for 2-8 points of 
damage, plus strength bonus, plus ld6 for 
height. There are about six such large stones 
for each fighter in the group. Note that there 
are only two hunting parties, If they are not 
encountered and wiped out, they will be at the 
caves when the party arrives there. There 


are females equal to 125% of males, children 
equal to 50% of females. 

Interacting with the Cave Dwellers: If the 
party has been successful in gaining the indif 
ference of the tribe, there is a chance that 
they can actually garner some friendliness. A 
considerable kill, offering trophies from the 
Kawibusas, or merely relating the defeat of 
that group of savages might do so. Use a 
standard reaction test with whatever modi 
fiers you find appropriate. These people know 
that there are others on the island who are like 
themselves, sort of -they are the people , 
those like them are others, while the Kawibu 
sas are enemies. The adventurers are some 
where between others and enemies when 
first met. 

Cooperativeness gains the party only the 






































services of 1-2 cave dwellers of 5th-6th 
level-those lower being too young, those 
above that level being too important to the 
tribe-to assist in tracking or whatever. The 
sharnen might also help by curing wounds, or 


As the party attempts to reach the islet, a 
random encounter of the appropriate kind 
automatically occurs. Check columns B or D 
on the Random Encounter Table (see module 
cover) or use flocks of pteranodons to inter- 


5) for fertility, nature (Neutrality) 

6) for constraint (Law) 

7) for divine power (Lawful Good) 

S) for good (Neutral Good) 

9) for light and prosperity (Chaotic Good) 



a disease the following day. Nothing more can 
be done. 

They know of no Oonga, but they wifi tell of 
terrible, hairy giants who sometimes come 
near. Smaller giants can be slain-if there 
aren't too many of them, and they are good to 
eat. The larger hairy giants are to be fled 
from. 


cept flying characters, 
if the party manages to gain access to this 
place, they will first have to negotiate the 40- 
to 60-foot-high cliff face. The island is ver 
dant, but there are few monsters dwelling 
there, for it is inaccessible to them. There are 
some snakes and flying monsters, but no 
other dangerous forms of creatures here. If 
an encounter check does not indicate snakes 
or flying monsters, then the party is safe. At 
the center of the islet is an overgrown stone 
building. Access is from the top of its nine 
faced pyramidal shape. 

There is an open-sided roof atop the struc 
ture. This area is plain, but there are nine 
runes engraved to form a nine-sided shape 
conforming to the sides of the building. These 
will be viewed by the adventurers in the order 
indicated below: 

Rune 1 stands for individuality (chaos) 

2) for demon (Chaotic Evil) 

3) for evil (Neutral Evil) 

4) for evil power (Lawful Evil) 


Each rune leads to an area where the appro 
priate sort of character can rest. As a character 
comes within one fool of the rune which stands 
for his or her alignment, it wall glow and pulse. If 
the character stays within that distance, the slab 
of stone upon which the nine is graven will 
slowly sink, revealing a short flight of steps 
which leads to a place where up to a dozen indi 
viduals can rest, eat, sleep, and otherwise 
refresh themselves. Food, drink, and compo 
nents for nine spells of a spell-caster s choice will 
be provided magically, if any character of differ 
ing alignment is within the area, however, noth 
ing save empty space will be there. This is a safe 
house provided by Zagyg, but it must be utilized 
correctly, and if the players fail to understand the 
correct operation of these areas, then the 
opportunity will be lost. After nine mixed - 
alignment entries, or nine turns, whichever first 
occurs , the dweomer placed upon the place dis 
sipates unless correct usage is made. No clues 
other than the runes and their operation are to 
be given. 


This bit of land is well above the surface 
of the lake. It has steep-sided walls of 
sheer rock, although these are covered 
with vegetation growing from above and in 
small crannies and ledges. The top seems 
flat and fertile, for there are trees growing 
from it-jungle growth which appears at 
least as thick as any you have seen. In the 
center of this place is a regular hill which is 
likewise covered with vegetation in riotous 
profusion. 






















29. Plateau Area 

See Area 27 for details. This group knows 
where the other cavemen from Area 27 are, but 
they fear them as "others w ho are different and 
will try to make us others instead of people!' 

30. Very High Plateau Area 


This comer of the island rises in two 
sheer steps 1 each about 70 to 110 feet in 
height, sheer, and wall-like. 

The top of the plateau is nearly sub 
tropical, and it is more familiar-looking to 
you than the exotic jungles and savannahs 
you have seen previously. Although not 
dry, it is not steamy and fetid dampness 
everywhere. From what you can deter 
mine, the place has a central grassland 
which is rimmed by hills and mountains* 


The tribe of cave-dwellers here is large, 
aggressive, and comparatively advanced, 
Hunting parties will be accompanied by sev 
eral of the cave people's hounds (see below) 
but otherwise are same as those encountered 
in Areas 27 and 29. 

The cavemen use three phororhacoses as 
hounds. There is a 50% chance that these 
creatures will be well in advance of their mas 
ters and attack immediately. They will attack 
in any event, but the hunters will pull them off 
if the party speaks to them understandably or 


has another cave dweller with them. 

The handlers of these huge carnivorous 
birds use tolas to wrap the creatures' legs 
and topple them. This will cause them to 
become relatively docile until their legs are 
freed and they are set onto the hunting trail 
once again. 

When the party reaches the hex indicated 
by an X, they have come to the home territory 
of the bird people. 

Summary: These cave dwellers are fierce and 
able fighters. They will fight to the last, if neces 
sary If the party approaches on norbhostiie 
terms, they will be treated with suspicion and 
care. If the adventurers prove themselves to 
these folk, then the cavemen will send from 2-5 of 
their warriors with the party. These cavemen wtD 
be barbarians of 4th to 7th level, and each will 
carry a bolo in addition to normal weapons shown. 
There is a 50% chance of a shaman (5th level) 
accompanying the group if there is either a deric 
or a druid with the party. If there are both, then 
the shaman will certainly go along if requested* 
and he will wish to be taught more spells. 

If the adventurers wish to go back and bat 
tle the Kawibusas, and they demonstrate 
some of their prowess to these cavemen, 
then the tribe will send all but two hunting par 
ties and the big shaman to accompany the 
adventurers on their mission. If the adventur 
ers and cavemen succeed in wiping out the 
tribesmen, then the balance of the cave dwell 
ers will be brought to the area formerly occu 


pied by the Kawibusas, and they will take over 
as the inhabitants of the peninsula. The cave 
men from Area 29 will eventually move to the 
area abandoned by the bird people. The cave 
dwellers of Area 27, will be absorbed into the 
tribe of the bird people* Apes will be hunted 
down and slain, and within 20 years time, 
these former cave dwellers will have a society 
similar to that of the Kawibusas, although 
they will not be cannibals. 

Notes on the Shaman o f Shamen: Their sha 
man's price for cooperation regarding the rit 
ual will be a show of ability. The characters will 
be required to best one of the female gargan 
tuan apes that roams this area periodically. 
The shaman is a trifle cracked and believes he 
can turn into a bird and fly at wiil. The other 
shamen restrain him and will warn the party to 
do so lest he dive off the plateau. 

30a-n. Cliff with Many Caves 


Before you is a sheer, high cliff with an 
arm of the mountain behind it. Many open 
ings perforate the cliffside* A few cavemen 
can be seen disappearing into the lowest of 
these openings. 


If the party has slain any Of the hunters of 
these people, the main tribe will know (via 
survivors) or suspect (lack of returning 
hunters), hi this case, they will prepare to 
defend their home as follows: 


Tribe of the Bird People 

(Ail have 15" 

p movement) 


* Base score needed to hit armor class 0 

Number 

AC 

Level 

THACO 

HP 

Weapons 

Damage 

Bonus 

** Sub-chief of tribe 
*** Chief of tribe 

( + } Little Shaman = 3rd-level cleric/druid: 

16 

5 

2 

(19*) 

22 

bolas, axe 

+ 1 

Cure Light Wfrunds, Animal Friendship, 

10 

5 

3 

(18*) 

33 

balas* axe 

+ 1 

Speak with Animals , Chant 

10 

5 

4 

(16*) 

44 

2 spears, axe 

+ 2 

(+ +) Shaman = 5th-level cleric/druid: 

8 

3 

5 

(15*) 

55 

2 spears, axe 

+ 2 

Cure Light Wbuflcfs. Light, Animal Friend- 

8 

3 

6 

(14*) 

66 

spear, axe 

+ 3 

ship, Speak with Animals * Chant, Resist 

6 

3 

7 

(12*) 

77 

spear, axe 

+ 3 

Fire , Produce Flame t Trip r Hold Animal 

6 

3 

8 

an 

88 

spear, axe 

+ 3 

(x) Big Shaman * 7th-level cleric/druid: 

4 

1 

9 

(10*) 

99 

spear, axe 

+ 4 

Cure Light Wfounds, Light, Animal Friend 

4 

1 

10 

(9*) 

110 

spear, axe 

+ 4 

ship, Speak with Animals, Chant, Resist 

2 

1 

11 

(8*) 

115 

bolas, spear, axe 

+ 5 

Fire , Produce Flame, Trip, Prayer, Hold 

2 

1 

12 

(7*) 

120 

bolas* spear* axe 

+ 5 

Animal, Produce Fire 

l m * 

1 

13 

(5*) 

125 

bolas, spear* axe 

+ 6 

(xx) Shaman of Shamen - 8th-level cleric/ 

1 *** 

1 

15 

'(3*) 

135 

bolas, spear, axe 

+ 6 

druid: 

4( + > 

5 

3 

as*) 

30 

dub 

+ 1 

Cure Light Wbunds, Light, Animal Friend 

2(+ +) 

5 

5 

(17*) 

50 

club 

+ i 

ship , Speak with Animals > Chant, Resist 

100 

3 

7 

(15*) 

70 

dub 

+ 1 

Fire * Produce Flame, Trip, Prayer, Hold Ani 

l(xx) 

3 

8 

(14*) 

80 

club 

+ i 

mal, Snare, Dispel Magic, Produce Fire 


34 












There are four hunting parties that will he at 
the caves if they have not been previously 
destroyed by the party. With them will be 
their hunting phororhacoses plus another six 
of these creatures. Refer to Map 3. 

30a. High Ledge 


\bu see a ledge about 20 feet up. At its 
most southerly point there is a pile of detri 
tus, and there appears to be a series of 
small ledges and hand holds there, so the 
cave dwellers must gain access to its top 
from that position. 


The foregoing is accurate. The giant birds 
are driven up at this point also, as the pile of 
rocks enables them to jump to the top of the 
ledge* and down as well* When the party 
comes atop the ledge* two cavemen will pull 
aside the crude fence between Areas 30b and 
30c* loosing the phororhacoses there (from 6 
to 18 P depending on previous events). This 
assumes* of course, that they are hostile to 
the adventurers. The pair of cavemen. 2nd- 
level boys* will then attempt to climb to safety 
by means of ropes lowered to Lhem from 
above. 

If the adventurers venture anywhere north 
of area 3Qd. they will be subject to hurled 
rocks from above (ledge Area 30e). Rock 
damage is easiest to deal with by using an 
average for strength, as there are too many 
cave dwelling barbarian fighters to easily keep 
track of. Use 15 as an average score to hit 
armor class 0. Damage will be 5-20 per hit. As 
many as 12 rocks can be hurled down in one 
round* assuming six or fewer adventurers as 
potential targets. If there are more charac 
ters, increase the number of rocks by two for 
each additional character present, 

30b* Brush and Poles 


There is a section of Lhe first ledge 
which is screened by a mixture of dead 
brush* living plants, and thin logs, ah inter 
woven by vines and creepers. This hedge 
is well over 12 feet high, and what is 
behind it can only be seen from a higher 
position. 


The ledge here is used to pen in the hunting 
birds when they are not being used by the 
cave dwellers to find game. There is a spring 
from which they drink, and the cavemen also 
use these birds as garbage disposal units. 


They will not breed in this environment, but 
the humans do not care* as they capture occa 
sional fledglings and add them to the pack. If 
loosed, these creatures will slowly exit their 
pen area, and as soon as they see movement 
on the ledge, run and leap to attack* for they 
are always hungry. 

30c* Fifteen-Foot-High Ledge 


Rising like a step, there is another ledge 
at the southern portion of the long one 
which certainly leads upward to the lowest 
cave openings. There appears to be a 
series of steps in its central portion where 
climbing is possible. 


Again, the party will be subject to burled 
rocks on this ledge. 

30d. Uppermost Ledge 


Some 20 feet above tbe small middle 
outcropping* 35 feet above the first ledge, 
and at least 55 feet above the ground* is a 
relatively long and narrow shelf of stone 
that leads to three cave openings. The 
northern and central openings appear to be 
some 8 to 10 feet wide, and about as high. 
The southern cave opening is perhaps 15 
to 18 feet broad but only about half as high. 


If the adventurers gain this ledge in combat 
with the cave dwellers, the latter will deem 
themselves in big trouble. They will retreat 
rapidly to their caves, roll boulders to block 
the entrances (see area 30f below), and pre 
pare to remain hidden until the enemy gives 
up and goes away. 

3Ge. Boulders 


These large stones could easily be used 
to block the cave entrance. They are 
heavy and might prove very difficult to 
move out of the way. 


In fact, once in position* these rocks are 
wedged tight with smaller pieces of stone, so 
that even application of 24 strength will noL 
move them. There are small openings which 
will allow a person to crawl through, but there 
are also armed cavemen ready to attack any 
one foolish enough to do so. Use automatic 
hits and maximum damage when any adven 
turer tries to enter this* with four attacks per 


round allowed on each target* Two rounds of 
exposure are necessary to enter. One charac 
ter at a time can enter the smaller cave 
mouths, two at the large one. Knock will not 
affect the rock closures, but other spells- 
passwall disintegrate, etc.-will, 

30f. Large Low-Ceilinged Cave 


This place has a smoke-blackened ceil 
ing, heaps of dried grass and leaves, ani 
mal skins* and various and sundry 
evidences of habitation by the cavemen. 


All creatures of 2nd to 6th level dwell in this 
common area. With them are females equal to 
125% of their total number, and children equal 
to the total number of males. Upon forced 
entry, all remaining cavemen in the area will 
attack the party. Females will also attack with 
weapons equal to daggers and attack level of 
2nd* There is no treasure, 

30g, Deeper Cave Area 


There are three rooms here which are 
smaller than the large cave to the east, but 
otherwise resemble that place. It is appar 
ent that many cavemen use tins complex 
as their home. 


Those of greater fighting and hunting ability 
dwell here-7th to LOth level fighters. These 
fighters will defend here at the last, and with 
them are females equal to 150% of their num 
ber. and children equal to 100% of their num 
ber. Females fight as noted in Area 30f. There 
is no treasure, 

30h, Sloping Cave 


This smallish cave slopes gradually 
downward to the west. A[ its rear is a pool 
of dear water that is fed from seepage 
above. This place must serve the cave 
dwellers as a well. 


3Gi. High Ceiiinged Cave 


This is another area utilized by the cave 
men as living quarters. In addition to the 
usual materials* there are many hides on 
the floor, and there are more than the usual 
number of stacks of dried food. 


35 



















iiiiEh 


(r) fil! 




gttj j£ i E 

.-¦ jl;-''i  


¦KpiNai 


| flu 

~f ¦ ¦ 


nfe; 

1/ 

\ 1 1 

i V 1 

l 

r ' 

ij> 

I'fto 


1 

Ijl - 

IT 

l LI 


1 

Ijt 

uA 

|?n 
























































The chief and his three wives and three chil 
dren dwell here* as do the sub-chief, his two 
wives, and two children. An 1 Ith-level fighter, 
a 12th-level fighter, four women* and four chil 
dren also quarter here. 

There is no treasure. The men will fight to 
the death; women fight as previously noted* 

30j, Shameivs Cave 


The wall paintings, hides, and skulls dec 
orating this area make it obvious that this 
is the place of the tribal medicine men. It is 
otherwise not remarkable. 


The shamen will make their stand here. The 
four little shamen are quartered near the 
entrance, the two shamen in the main area, and 
the big shaman at Area 301. There is no treasure 
here, nor are there any spell components. 

30k. Small Cave 


This is more of a tunnel off the main 
room than a separate cave, although it cer 
tainly was used to quarter an important 
tribal cleric, for it is highly decorated with 
various paintings, skulls, hides, feathers, 
and the like. 


301. Small Low-Ceilinged Cave 


This place is another of those housing 
the tribal clerics, and it resembles the 
other areas seen with respect to furnish 
ings and decoration* There is a rough, 
vaguely bird-shaped stone standing in the 
area of the cave farthest from the 
entrance* 


This is the cave of the u shaman of shamen" 
There is no treasure here, save the statue- 
like rock that the tribe regards as their totem. 
The chief shaman, and all survivors of any 
other areas wiU stand in and around this place 
to make certain that the party does not steal 
the totem object, for then their tribe would be 
powerless. (See notes on Shaman of Shamen 
on page 34.) 

30m. Large Painted Cave 


This area seems to be a sacred place of 
the cave dwellers, for its walls are painted 
with crude representations of themselves* 


their vicious birds* animals, dinosaurs, and 
even Kawibusas tribesmen-all in atti 
tudes of being slain or already dead. The 
stone overhead is very dark and sooty* so 
it is apparent that the tribe brings torches 
here to light the place for painting and per 
haps ceremonial activities. 


No cave dweller wiU fight here. There is no 
treasure here. If a careful circuit of the place is 
conducted, the slab of stone covering the 
entn r to area 30n will be noted. This is a 3- 
foot-high crawl way for its first 10 feet. 

30n. Secret Chamber 


This grotto is certainly the secret place 
of the tribal shamen, for it contains a store 
of pigments, wood* and feather masks* 
oddly shaped bits of rock and bone in hide 
bags* and many round stones, large bones, 
and wooden drums with hide drumheads. 


The above is correct. Amongst the stones in 
the hide bags are KMO uncut gems of 1,000 gp 
base value. The round rocks are split geodes, 
the bones hollow, and some of the smaller 
wooden drums are containers also. Ln these 
receptacles are the spell components of the sha 
men, There are sufficient stores for 21-30 of 
each spell they are able to cast. Druidical-type 
spells do not require mistletoe* but they do use a 
special sort of orchid leaf. A druid wOl not have 
any use for the latter component, 

31. Waterfall 

Note that the outlet of the lake has a shallow 
fall into the mountain where its channel runs 
underground until it falls to the sea some 
three miles distant. This fall is about 30 feet, 
the water plunging into a deep ravine and dis 
appearing from there into the rock. Other falls 
are 40 feet or more high, 

32-36, Huge Cavern 
Openings 


There is a great hole in the side of the 
mountain, and it is likely that some mon 
ster dwells here. The entrance is nearly 30 
feet wide and at least as high. 


There are signs of a gargantuan ape all 
around the area. Encounters 32 through 36 
are exactly the same. The strongest other 
gargantuan ape will live nearest to Gonga's 


lair, the weakest will be farthest away. Each of 
these creatures is female. None have any 
treasure. 

Use the statistics in the New Monsters sec 
tion at the end of the module for handling 
encounters with any of these creatures. 

Caverns will be about 40-50 feet wide, 60- 
90 feet long, and have a ledge upon which the 
ape dwells. 

37. The Dormant King 


In the middle of a large grassy plain 
appears to be a round and flat structure. It 
seems there is no animal activity of any 
sort, not even the usual cries and squeals 
of birds and small mammals. 


The party should be able to see the struc 
ture from approximately 600 feet* It is an ele 
vated pool that radiates a strong magical aura 
designed to keep all low intelligence creatures 
at least 600 feet away. However* anytime 
someone approaches within 30 feet of the 
pool, a tyrannosaurus rex of the most fero 
cious kind suddenly emerges from the water. 
It is a creation of Zagyg uses to defend the 
pool. Unlike normal rexes, this one is highly 
magical in nature. It has the ability of gaining 
hit points (up to its possible maximum of 152 
hp) each time it kills a victim. If any character 
is killed, the tyranuosaur gains that charac 
ter's original total in hit points. 

The tyrannosaur will charge and pursue 
trespassers up to the aura's limit. If the party 
escapes beyond that point, the tyrannosaur 
then returns to the pool. Characters attempt 
ing to fly within the aura are very soon 
attacked by a flock of voracious pterosaurs, 
To study the pool closely, the tyrannosaur 
must be killed or neutralized. If it is killed, it 
returns to the pool and will not rematerialize 
until the next day. 

38. The Magic Pool 


The pool seems to be made of the same 
purplish metal found on the titanic gate on 
the isle's peninsula. The metallic structure 
is 30 feet in diameter, and 10 feet high* 
with a set of stairs going to the top. 

On the surface, many runes are 
engraved around a dark pool. Strangely* 
the water does not reflect the sky or the 
adventurers observing the liquid. All that 
can be seen is a night sky dotted with a 
myriad of stars. 


37 



















The pool is a magical portal to a part of Lhe 
eLhereal plane affected by Zagygs mind. Any 
one stepping into or touching the liquid is 
pulled into the other plane (see Encounter 
39). The w-ater and the metal are totally 
immune to mortal magic of any sort. 

If the party has a way of deciphering the 
runes, they will find the following sentence: 
"Ye who have fought the dormant king, enter 
my knowledge. Zagyg" 

If the party has not disturbed the dark water 
after three turns, large black bubbles fly out 
and attempt to envelop any character around 
the pool (roll under Dexterity score on a d20 
to avoid). There are !d4 bubbles pursuing 
each character up to 600 feet from the pool. 

Bubbles are AC 10; 50 points of magical or 
physical damage will pop a bubble, releasing 
its energy in a 30-foot-radius blast causing 
2d20 points of damage (save vs. spell for half 
damage). They move at 40* per round, roll 
ing, Hying or bouncing until they Lrap a victim. 
Read Encounter 39 to the victims' players. 
Bubbles disappear upon reaching the aura's 
limit. They reappear after someone remains 
once again on the side of the pool for three or 
more turns. 

39. The Spheres of Thought 


After seconds of a nauseating freefall 
sensation, you emerge into a huge sphere 
of nothingness. The limits of the sphere, 
like a night sky, seem dose and immensely 
remote at the same time. You are in the 
middle, floating among strange billowing 
swirls of mist constantly clashing and 
changing colors. Small brilliant spheres of 
light dart by. some so dose you must sud 
denly dodge. Once in a while, a larger one 
follows, at a slower pace. 


The party Is in a region of the ethereal plane 
that is affected by Zagygs thoughts. Charac 
ters can move by simply concentrating, How 
ever* none of them will manage to reach the 
sphere's limit. As they move in that direction, 
the night sky seems to become more and 
more distant* 

The swirls of color are inoffensive. How 
ever the small spheres of light contain various 
feelings randomly affecting Zagyg's subcon 
scious. 

The larger ones contain more elaborated 
thoughts (see below). Roll !d8 at the begin 
ning of each round: 1-2, no sphere is in range; 
3-4, ld4 small spheres dash toward the party; 


5-6 ld6 small spheres fly around ld4 larger 
ones; 7-8 ld4 large spheres alone. At the end 
of the round, all of those spheres are consid 
ered out of range, 

The party must avoid each small sphere, 
rolling under their Dexterity scores (treat the 
spheres as magical projectiles). Victims hit by 
a small sphere must immediately save vs, 
spell or be affected as described below. (A 
small sphere vanishes once it hits one target.) 

D6 Roll Temporary' Insanity 

1 Hatred: save each round or attack near 
est creature. 

2 Love: save each round or remain fasci 
nated (as with Comeliness) by closest 
creature. 

3 Humor: save each round or keep on 
laughing and making puns. 

4 Sadness; save each round or keep on 
crying and lamenting. 

5 Curiosity: save each round or try to 
catch the next sphere of any size that 
comes close (roll under Dexterity). 

6 Carelessness: save each round, or 
spend the round wandering about. 

The effects last for 1 dl 2 hours after the vic 
tim has left this plane; a successful saving 
throw at the beginning of a round negates a 
temporary insanity for one round. 

The effects change when the victim is hit by 
another sphere, Each time a new sphere hits a 
victim* the feeling changes to that of the new 
sphere and the character temporarily loses 1 
point of intelligence. At Q t the character goes 
permanently insane as described below and is 
immediately expelled from this plane (to the 
side of the pool)* 

D6 Roll Permanent Insanity 

1 Victim thinks he is a bird. 

2 Victim thinks he is a tyrannosaur. 

3 Victim thinks he is Zagyg. He or she 
affects the party at random* as a Wand 
of Wfrnden 

4 Victim thinks he is Qonga and will 
charge anyone pretending otherwise, 
including the real Oonga. 

5-6 Roll on the Insanity table (DMG, page 
83)* 

The larger spheres contain some thoughts 
occurring in Zagyg's mind. When those 
appear, consider they are dose enough so that 
any character in the party may touch one. Any 
character doing so is sucked inside. Only one 


character may enter a large sphere with a suc 
cessful roll under Dexterity, The large 
spheres are AC 0 and may be destroyed with 
10 points of physical or magical damage from 
outside {those inside cannot affect it). 

Once inside* the adventurer may attempt to 
understand the nature and meaning of the 
thought by successfully rolling under his cur 
rent Intelligence score. If the character fails 
that roll, be temporarily loses one point of 
Intelligence. At 0* the character is affected as 
above. Once inside* the character cannot get 
out until he has attempted to understand the 
thought. Thoughts may be one of the follow 
ing: 

Spheres of Thought 

1. Whispering voice- '\*. visitors in my 
divine mind...welcome mortal one,.," 

2. Whispering race-enter one more 
thought and think hard to leave my mind 
...else* insanity will save ye..." 

3. Telepathic message- "...beware of the 
spheres! Some may be inhabited.* " 

4. Mental image -the ancient stone pillar is a 
magical portal to Oonga's domain. 

5. Mental image -three scriptures are 
required for the ritual at the stone pillar. 

6. Telepathic message-ihe character gains 
some arcane knowledge if a magic-user or 
illusionist. He may use one 9th-level spell 
over and above normal limitations (perma 
nent until cast). For others, or if the spell 
is not understood, the character goes per 
manently insane. 

7. Whispering voice -"**.home ye seek? 
Only Oonga knows.. .fetch the crook or rot 
forever.. * 1 

8. Whispering voice -",..Oonga... a fine pet 
indeed...mine now' and forever..," 

9. Telepathic message-the character gains 
some divine know 7 ledge if a druid or cleric. 
He may use one 7th-!evel spell over and 
above normal limitations (permanent until 
cast). Roll under Wisdom or turn perma 
nently insane (others automatically 
become insane)* 

10. Letters of fire- "Zam's the way out! 1 * 

II an adventurer damages any sphere or 
attempts to affect the plane magically, be is 
immediately expelled to the rim of the pool. 
However, the character will find himself 
locked inside a Prison of Zagvg . He will 
remain there until the rest of the party man 
ages to open the cage. Several characters can 
fit in the cage if necessary. Thought 10 is Lhe 


38 











magic word to open the cage. If the entire 
party ends up in the prison, it teleports to 
Zagvg where the party remains at the service 
of the demi-god for IdlO years* They are then 
returned to the world of Grey hawk. Once the 
captive(s) break free, the prison teleports 
hack to the plane of Zagyg* 

There is a 35% chance each of those larger 
spheres contains a creature* such as: 

-one brain mole 
-one intellect devourer 
-3-12 cerebral parasites 
-one thought eater 
-one ustilagor 
-one obliviax 

Any such occupant must first be defeated 
before the thought in the sphere can be under 
stood* If the character entering the sphere 
does not have psionics, then the creature 
feeds on the character's spell-easting abilities 
(use memorized spell levels x5) or intelli 
gence (use current Intelligence xlO) like they 
were psionic points* Defeated spell-casters 
lose their spell- casting abilities* Then, if the 
creature is still alive and hungry* it starts feed 
ing on the character's Intelligence. If the char 
acter is defeated (psionics or Intelligence 


reduced to 0), he remains in the sphere, lost 
forever unless someone attacks the sphere 
from outside. 

Once a character attempts (successfully or 
not) to understand the thought in a sphere, 
the sphere vanishes with a loud popping sound 
and the character returns to the ethereal 
plane. 

To exit this plane, each member of the party 
must attempt to understand the contents of 
one sphere and then concentrate on returning 
to the pool (a permanently insane character is 
automatically expelled to the pool). The char 
acter then appears on the side of the pool; all 
temporary insanities and losses in Intelligence 
points are cancelled* The pool functions only 
once per creature (no one may enter that 
plane twice in its existence). 


39 





Encounter Setting 

All passages are 50% higher than they are 
broad. Thus, a 10-foot-wide area is 15 feet 
high* a 20-foot-wide area is 30 feet high, etc. 
The main passage, Areas 1-4-6-9* is ascend- 
ing at an incline of about 1 foot for every 20 
feet of horizontal distance. There are numer 
ous sheer places where the cavern or passage 
continues at a higher level. These ledges are 
each approximately 15 feet high. Thus* 
Donga's lair (9) is well over 200 feet above the 
lake (12) which the lair overlooks. 

Encounters are numbered. The letter R 
indicates rubble-broken slabs of rock from 
ceiling or ledge. Sufficient natural light filters 
in to allow vision to extend to 60 feet clearly* 
120 feet dimly (only vague shapes can be 
seen, although movement will be obvious). 
Climbing to ledges where rubble is present is 
relatively fast-one round to accomplish this 
climb. Other rises are more difficult to scale, 
and normal climbing time will be three to five 
rounds per rise. 

There is a 1 in 20 chance that Oonga will 
decide to come out of his lair wlule the party is 
in the cavern complex. If this occurs (score of 
20 on ld2Q), the ape will be encountered as 
follows (roll ld2G again): 

1- 5 ^ atop ledge (Area 5) 

6-10 = Area 4 
11-16 Passage 4-6 
17-20 - Area 6 

Oonga passes through 20-foot-wide tunnels 
easily, traveling on all fours. He cannot go into 
1 (Hoot-wide areas, but he is able to reach into 
such areas by wedging his shoulder into the 
opening and extending a mighty arm. Oonga J s 
reach in such cases is 20 feet. 

If he grasps an opponent, Oonga can apply 
squeezing damage equal to the maximum hand 
attack-24 points per round of crushing pres 
sure* Once grasped and squeezed* an oppo 
nent will be brought forth, raised to a height of 
40 feet, and hurled down. Damage from such 
attack is 22-72 points (10d6 + 12). and the 
victim will also suffer a stamping attack imme 
diately during the same round. 

To illustrate this attack form, follow this 
example: Grasp and crush two rounds for 24 
points damage per round = 46, then hurl 
down for 22-72 additional points - 70-120, 
then stamp for 5-20 - 75-140 total damage 
pointk in two rounds! (One of the lesser gar 
gantuan apes will inflict two rounds of grasp 
and crush for 40 points of damage, hurl down 


lAIR 


from 30 feet for 16-46 more points of damage 
(6d6 + 10) - 56-86, then stamp down for 4- 
16 more points ** 60-102 total points of dam 
age inflicted in two rounds.) 

If long-range attack methods are employed 
against Oonga. he will retaliate by hurling 
boulders-there are plenty strewn through 
out the cavern complex. These will inflict 17- 
32 (5d4 + 12) points of damage when they 
hit, Such missiles can be hurled one per 
round, from \ H to 36" distance. AJ1 targets 
within a hex will be struck by a single boulder, 
but each will be subject to separate damage of 
17-32. 

Lesser gargantuan apes hurl boulders for 
14-26 points of damage (4d4 + 10) at ranges 
of 1 * to 30 

Oonga knows his cavern complex perfectly, 
and he will be able to chase very effectively. 
Don't forget he has considerable brain power 
for a monster If he is encountered outside his 
lair area, he will be lurking in wait for the party 
if the dice check indicates they are surprised 
and Oonga is not. If this occurs near a ledge, 
assume that Oonga is on higher ground. In 
such case, the ape will greet the party with a 
hurled boulder, and for each 15 feet of eleva 
tion add 2-8 points of damage. Immediately 
after throwing the missile, Oonga will leap 
down to attack the party-possibly stamping 
them, again with an additional 2-8 points dam 
age for each 15 foot distance he drops to come 
to their level. Note that the ape will not drop 
and stamp in areas of rubble (R). 

Encounter Key 

1. Entrance Tunnel 


There is light from the opening and dim 
light ahead as well. This indicates that 
there are openings at intervals within this 
place. The main passage seems to lead 
generally east* but there appear to be sev 
eral side passages. 


2. Dark Passages 


Although the narrow tunnel you chose 
has broadened, the way has sloped down 
ward* and the area before you is dark, 
There is a faint odor of dampness which 
indicates you are underground* 


if the party continues to where the cave is 
30 feet or more wide, six subterranean lizards 
attack them. 


All attacks are made at +2 due to size. 
They will come from wall and Door area, so all 
six of these monsters will be able to operate at 
once, Of course* they have no treasure, 
although there will be a shambles of bones at 
the rear of their lair area. 

3, Large Sinkhole 


The floor of this cave drops out of 
sight-a deep shaft with vertical sides 
plunging to who knows where. Occasional 
wafts of steamy vapor rise from this hole. 


If any adventurer peers over the edge of the 
shaft, he or she must save vs. poison or else 
become giddy from the gasses which rise 
from below. Failure will cause the individual to 
fall headlong into the shaft. It terminates in a 
lava bed 200 feet below, and failing into this 
will result in instant death without magical 
protection from the fall and the lava both, 

4. Great Cavern 


After ascending three ledges you have 
come to a high-domed cavern. It is over 80 
feet wide on the average* at least 130 feet 
long, and perhaps 100 feet high! The trail 
of your quarry leads northeastwards 
through this vast space. 


If Oonga is not in this area, there will be two 
giant poisonous snakes attacking at + 2 due to 
their size. These reptiles are slithering 
through the place on their way out, but they 
will attack the party deeming them to be 
choice prey. 

5, Large Ledge 


There is a 30 foot or so high ledge along 
the cavern's north wall. The place is dark 
and heavily shadowed* but it appears that 
the shelf-like area is deserted. It is not 
possible to tell if there is or is not a passage 
leading from this place. 


If Oonga is not here, four subterranean liz 
ards are here* All attacks are made at + 2 to 
hit due to size. 

At the eastern end of this place there are a 
series of step-like ledges leading downward to 
Area 4, 


40 














6, Huge Cavern 


After going many feet along the gentiy 
upward sloping, southerly winding pas 
sage and then negotiating another pair of 
high ledges P you have entered a vast 
space. As dimly muminated as the other, it 
is still more impressive for its ceiling peak 
is beyond sight in places, and it is 120 feet 
and more in breadth. Pale sunlight streams 
in from the eastern side of the titanic vault 
where pan of the cavern roof has col 
lapsed* A huge stone column rises to the 
very ceiling in the central portion of the 
place. There seem to be numerous side 
passages, but the main portion of the 
cavern runs northward, and your path 
seems to lie in that direction. 


Unless Oonga is encountered here, a nasty 
tanystropheus will be waiting for the party to 
pass near the pile of rubble (northeastern por 
tion of the cavern) where it lies in wait. 

7* Water Passage 


The floor of this passageway is covered 
with water, and it seems to slope gently 
downward to the east and south* Although 
the water is relatively still, there is plant 
growth in it, so it probably is an arm of 
some larger body. 


As above a tanystropheus lurks in the water 
to strike and drag prey down into its watery 
den. The other outlet to the underground pool 
is in the nibble in Area 6 where its mate lurks. 

8, Dark Chamber 


This place has a pair of low entrances. It 
has smooth walls and floor* and the ceiling 
is domed and smooth. In all, it is quite 
unlike the rest of the complex. The air 
feels odd, and you are vaguely uncomforta 
ble here. There seems to be nothing what 
soever here, however. 


If magic is detected for, there will be a strong 
aura of enchantment as an antipathy spell has 
been cast permanently upon the area* Nothing 
will be found here, however, until Area 9 has 
been properly interacted with. 

Important Note: If Oonga has not already 
been encountered and slain, the ape will be 


lurking just west of the final step up into his 
lair area (see New Monsters section). When 
the adventurers begin to ascend this ledge* 
Oonga will rush out to its edge, boulder ready 
to hurl 

If the combat goes badly for the ape, he will 
slowly retreat into Area 10. There, Oonga will 
grab up a boulder from the rubble, hurling it 
with effect, and then retreat to the outside 
ledge. Area 11, using the sheltered southern 
portion to avoid spells if necessary. His strat 
egy will be to grasp adversaries, squeeze 
them, and hur] them off the ledge, In fact, 
Oonga will attempt to bounce them on the 
lower ledges-the one to the south being 60 
feet below the cave ledge* Striking either 
ledge will inflict instant death upon any charac 
ter who is not magically protected from fail 
ing; If both are missed (successful saves vs. 
death), Lhen impacting the water below will 
inflict 12d6 damage, and the character must 
save vs, paralyzation or else be stunned and 
drown in 5-8 rounds unless removed from the 
water and revived with artificial respiration. 

9. The Small Space 

This will not be noticed by the party unless 
one of their number actually scrambles to an 
adjacent hex and shifts the top rubble. This 
will reveal an opening below, and the party 
can then investigate further. 

Circular Opening: Shifting the rubble 
reveals that there is a nearly circular entrance 
to a small space beyond-10 feet deep, nearly 
globular in form. The stone here is of greenish 
hue, and there are strange symbols graven 
over its entire surface. 

If the party, or any one of its number enters 
the area, the runes will gradually begin to 
glow, and in three rounds-time it!-he, she, 
or they will be transported into an airless non- 
dimensional space where the treasure is kept. 
They are trapped in this space and will perish 
quickly, unless they have some magical means 
of survival Survival will mean imprisonment 
until freed by some character more able than 
this party, and that must be left entirely in the 
hands of the DM, but in any event the confine 
ment cannot be less than one month, and it 
could be years, decades, or centuries* 

If the symbols are read magically, the party 
will learn that Zagyg has posted a warning not 
to enter this place, There is also a message of 
encouragement: 

"You have overcome the fesfs of the island . 
and now you must solve the riddle of this 


room. If you state what is on your mind , your 
rewards will not he hard to find." 

Someone must ask aloud the whereabouts 
of the Crook of Rao , or merely state that he or 
she seeks it. As soon as this is uttered, the 
symbols will glow brightly and then fade and 
disappear. The non-dimensional space will be 
gone, its contents emptied into Area 8, and a 
force field will be in place surrounding the 
area. 

The treasure accumulated by Oonga is due 
to a command from Zagyg which the creature 
followed. The savage Kawibusas witch doc 
tors likewise followed it. Strange items svere 
to be placed at the place of sacrifice. Oonga* 
finding such there was to place them in Area 
9. Characters leaving the island by means pro 
vided by Zagyg were stripped of ail non- living 
material, the latter going into the non- 
dimensional holding space until properly 
claimed or recovered as treasure* The trea 
sure list which follows does not include vari 
ous items of clothing and other materials 
which are nommagica] or otherwise valueless* 
Assume time has caused them lo appear faded 
and obviously of no value. 

The Treasure of Oonga's Cavern: The 

Crook of Rao ; a Horn of Valhalla, silver; 
Keoghtoms Ointment, 2 jars; Merlynds 
Spoon*: a pouch full of 66 gems: 6 @ 10,000 
gp* 10 @ 5,000 gp, 10 @ 1,000 gp, 10 @ 500 
gp* 10 (c) 100 gp. 10 @ 50 gp, 10 @ 10 gp. 

All the items Tenser mentioned earlier are 
also present in this treasure* 

As the party readies to leave the chamber* 
they will see that mist seems to obscure the 
exits. This is because they have been trans 
ported again, and this time not at the whim of 
Zagyg, but by something which entered 
through the end of non-dimensional space 
where the treasure was kept. 

The Transformation 


As you gather up the heaps of treasure 
and prepare to leave the chamber, you see 
that mists swirl in the area of both exits, 
and a pale white radiance is coming from a 
newly-appeared opening in the northeast 
comer of the caveml Even as you stare* 
the mists in the eastern and western por 
tions of the chamber clear* and all is solid 
material. In fact* you can easily see that 
the entire chamber now seems to be of 
metal. 


41 















THE PASSAGEWAY 

Scale: 1 hex m ID feet 


Nothing can be done to leave this room by 
any means other than the passage to the 
northeast. No magic or any other means will 
enable the adventurers to win free. The sub 
stance of the walls is multiversal material, for 
it has now become a pocket-plane, a sort of 
gate which will bring them to another place. 


You must see where the magically 
appearing tunnel will lead, so you proceed 
accordingly. 


The Passageway 

1. Red-hued corridor 

2. Pink-hued corridor 

3. Orange-hued corridor 

4. Lilac-hued corridor 
5* Brown-hued corridor 

6, Peach-hued corridor 

7, Silver- hued corridor 

8, Peacock-hued corridor 

9, Gray-hued corridor 

10. Bronze-hued corridor 

11. Yellow-hued corridor 

12. Pearl-hued corridor 

13. Lavender^hued corridor 

14. Cream-hued corridor 


15. Green-hued corridor 

16. Amber-hued corridor 

17. Blue-hued corridor 

18. Olive-hued corridor 

19. Indigo-hued corridor 

20. Violet-hued corridor 

21. Sepia-hued corridor 

Corridor Terminal Points 

X: Leaving by this corridor will cause the fol 
lowing words to come to the minds of each 
adventurer: 

"Reach high in your aims, take the ultimate 
course, or else sorrow will be your lot!" 

Y: Leaving by this exit gains the party no 
warning at all. 

All corridor exits lead to the Crystal Prism* 

The Crystal Prism 


When your party reaches the end of the 
corridor, the world seems to tremble and 
your head swim* Now you are seemingly 
inside a great, hollow crystal of hexagonal 
shape. It is 30 feet across and as high. 


, Above you float huge jewels-about 20 
feet up is a ruby, a foot above and 10 feet to 
its left is a jacinth, higher, and to the left is 
a golden sapphire (corundum topaz, or Ori 
ental topaz), higher still, and to the left is a 
dear emerald* then some 10 feet away and 
another foot above is a blue diamond, then 
away and above is a sapphire of deepest 
blue, and finally, in the center, and just 
below the ceiling of the crystal, floats a 
huge corundum amethyst. Each of these 
gems appears as large and fine as the next. 

Another strange thing which cannot be 
ignored are other bright-hued prisms 
which touch the six sides of your own. One 
is transparent green, another pale blue, 
one golden yellow, another deep blue, the 
next blood-red, and the last brilliant 
orange* 

A voice speaks* coming from the very 
air itself. It is deep, resonant, command 
ing: "Choose now one jewel. It is your 
fate. The others are your prizes" 


As soon as any character states a prefer 
ence for one gem, that particular one will fly 
down and rest in his or her hand, The other 
six will float gently to the floor of the prism. If 


42 









THE CRYSTAL PRISM 



they are not picked up within one round, they 
vanish. Each is worth 50,000 gp, so in all 
there are 350,000 gp worth of gems in the 
crystal. As the jewels are taken, or disappear, 
one of two things will happen: 

If the amethyst was selected, the party will 
be instantly transported from the prism to the 
great Hall of Magic in Tenser's castle. They 
are safe, aJI is weli. They must turn the arti 
fact over to the Arch-Mage, but the balance of 
their gain remains their own. If there is resist 
ance to delivery of the artifact to Tenser, then 
they must combat the solar and six astral 
devas, plus Lhe pair of planetars currently at 
the fortress awaiting the safe return of the 
artifact! 

If the party selects any of the six other 
gems, then read the following: 

The Crystal Shatters 


As you wonder what to do next, the 
wails of the prism shatter, and evaporate 
into nothingness. You are now surrounded 
by the six brightly-hued prisms which you 
could see through the walls of your former 
prison-ruby-red, bright jacinth, golden 
topaz, emerald green, palest blue, and 
deep sapphire. Each has an opening in its 


face, and as you peer into these prisms you 
can see that their far sides are open. From 
each opening streams a radiance of appropri 
ately colored light, a glowing pathway to 
somewhere, perhaps,,, Now you must 
choose which prism to enter, and thus exit 
this place. 


No matter which they choose, the results 
are the same. As soon as they pass through 
the prism and onto one of the radiance 
bridges, the adventurers will all be trans 
ported to the glowing pearl chamber. 

The Glowing Pearl Chamber 


Your path of light disappears, and 
instantly you are in a large room. The place 
is covered with mother-of-pearl, and eve 
rything herein is pearl, ivory, or gold col 
ored. A long ivory table is before you. 
Seated behind it are eight fighting men in 
pearl-like armor, all chased with gold, As 
you appear, another figure seems to have 
risen from a place at the head of this board, 
a tall, robed man dressed in ivory-hued 
robes and gold. He appears stem, but 
kind. He speaks: 


"Bow to we. for I am Ernk , True Ruler 
of the Eight Circles. Those here with me 
are the Eight Paladins of Might-my 
guards and en/brcers 0 / the will of the 
Circles-my will r of course !He gives you 
a moment to obey his command, then he 
proceeds: 

'T grant that you have accomplished 
much. Well done, Brave Adventurers! 
Place notv the artifact in the Chest of Safe 
Keeping" As he so speaks he points to a 
great metal chest of gleaming golden hue 
near him. "Keep the other tranthtms 
and baubles. You have earned these petty 
magicks and colored stones . Then you are 
safely off to where you belong." 


Iggwilv learned of her foe s efforts to gain 
the Crook, so she took what steps she could 
to foil their plans. While she was unable to gain 
entrance to Zagyg's demi-plane, she could lay 
a trap for those successfully leaving it-and 
she did. As the treasure was emptied from its 
null-space depository, the action triggered the 
trap tggwilv laid, and the place was removed 
from Zagyg's purview to a neutral zone, more 
or less. 

Of course, other powerful beings were 
aware of what the monstrous Iggwilv was 


43 







doing, but as long as she followed certain 
rules, there was nothing which they could 
do-until the right moment. Of course, 
Iggwilv followed those rules. There is a true 
^nd safe path out of her trap to bring the party 
back to where they came from. While Lhe 
ivory' robed figure pretends to be something 
he is not. his words and actions are obviously 
incorrect if the observer uses discernment. 
The figure is actually an arcanadaemon, and 
the eight "paladins'" are mezzodaemons. All 
are polymorphed to appear otherwise, and the 
chamber has a permanent non-defection 
placed upon it. 

Note: lor the daemons to flee, the characters 
must raise the Croak of Rao and summon its 
powers loudly. The crcx>k otherwise has no effect. 

If the part)' simply hands the artifact over, 
placing it in the box, they will be thanked, a 
hidden doorway will he revealed, and they will 
be able to walk through it into the fresh, green 
world beyond-the Sixth Gloom of Hades, but 
revealed as such only after the portal behind 
them closes. How they fare there is strictly a 
DM's problem! 

If the party knowingly and willingly hands 
the artifact over, then they, and the nine other 
daemons, will be forced to battle the avenging 
solar and his six astral devas. 

In either of these cases, the artifact will 
have to be returned to the island-by daemon 
or deva. It will be effectively out of the pic 
ture. Iggwilv will have won her first great, 
possibly decisive, battle against her foes. 

If the party hesitates in complying with the 
orders of the robed figure, he will become 
imperious, threatening force from his guards, 
and his own great power. This should indeed 
make the party highly suspicious. At this junc 
ture, outright refusal to comply, or physical 
attack upon the disguised daemons, will force 
them to reveal their true identities, 

Once in true form, each of these creatures 
will use its most efficacious means of attack to 
destroy the adventurers. They will have to 
fight alone only so long as they do not call out 
for assistance from any force for good. At the 
instant that they ask for succor, there will 
appear Lhe solar and the six astral devas to 
fight the daemons. All battle will take place on 
a formless, featureless plain. 

Tul-oc-Iuc. the arcanadaemon, is able to use 
magic at 18th-level proficiency. This is why he 
was selected as an ally by Iggwilv. The 
arcanadaemon s spells are: 

Level 1: Magic Missile [x 4). Protection from 
Good 


Level 2: Darkness (20 foot r,)*, ESP.\ Mirror 
Image, Ray of Enfeeblement, Stinking 
Cloud , Heb 

Level 3; Dispel Magic, Fireball, Fly A Hold 
Person, Lightning Bolt, Slow 
Level 4: Confusion, Dimension Door*, Ice 
Storm t Polymorph Others, Wall of Fire, 
Ha// of Ice 

Level 5: Cone of Cold (x 3), Telekinesis*, 
7e/eporf (once/day)*. Wall of Force r Wall 
of Stone** 

Level 6: Disintegrate, Flesh to Stone . 
Repulsion 

Level 7: Delayed Blast Fireball, Power Word 
Stun, Reverse Gravity 
Level 8: Polymorph any Object f Symbol 
(Pain)*** 

Level 9: Shape Change (any humanoid 
form)*. Time Stop 

* Spell-like power usable with no limitation 
unless so indicated. 

** First of a two-spell combination that will 
be used. 

*** Second part of a two-spell combination. 

Remember that this daemon has 100% 
resistance to lst-level spells cast at up to 11 th 
experience level, 95% to 2nd. etc. Be sure to 
check for this anytime a spell is used against 

it. 

Actual direction cannot be given, but this 
creature will use its most effective spell attack 
forms initially. If these fail to bring good 
results, the wall and symbol combination 
might be employed to weaken the party. Pro 
tective spells will be cast immediately, of 
course, and if there is opportunity, a mirror 
image followed by shape change so that there 
might suddenly be many who look exactly like 
one of the party members! At the last, the 
arcanadaemon will use its teleportation to 
seek safety. Prior to this, physical attacks will 
be made with the burning hands included, to 
find just how strong the opponents remain. As 
psionics are optional, no details of Lhese 
powers will be given. If you choose to ignore 
the option it is suggested that the arcana 
daemon be given the following to replace the 
psionic abilities: charm person (x 2), disinte 
grate, and the ability to heal 25 points of dam 
age in lieu of any other power that round. 

The spell-like powers of the six mezzo- 
daemons are: Comprehend Languages, 
Detect Magic, Detect Invisibility, Read 
Magic, ESP. Invisibility, Levitate, Dimension 
Door (2 maximum), Passwall (4 maximum). 
Polymorph Self (4 maximum, 1 used already). 


Magic Jar (1 maximum), Repulsion (1 maxi 
mum), Wind Walk (1 maximum), Hfrnf of 
Recall (1 maximum), Etherealness (1 maxi 
mum). 

Immunities: Charm r Suggestion, paraly 
sis, poison, non-magic weapons, iron or silver 
weapons. 

Half Damage: Add, cold, fire of any sort. 

Magic Resistance: 95% to lst-level 
spells cast at 11th level. 

The six mezzodaemons will ply their 
swords in combat, saving their offensive 
spells to use against an opponent who is obvi 
ously dangerous because of spell power. The 
polymorph spell will be used if there is an 
opponent with a bastard sword, or a long 
sword, perhaps, so that the similarity will 
cause obfuscation as to who is an enemy, 
Recall be used if the situation is obviously bad 
for them-certainly when the arcanadaemon 
is slain or leaves. 

If the adventurers recognize the group as 
evil and willingly turn over the artifact then 
the daemons will not attack. In fact, the 
arcanadaemon is wise enough to attempt the 
recruitment of the adventurers, for he has 
some inkling that there is other trouble com 
ing with regard to possession of the Crook of 
Rao . As was stated earlier, duping the party 
means their entry into the lowest plane of 
Hades, the appearance of the solar, and the 
fleeing of the daemons-no sense in their 
fighting an obviously impossible battle! The 
artifact is then returned to the isle, and a 
stand-off has occurred, If the party resists, 
fails to call for help, and is slain, the solar 
appears, and a stand-off situation again 
occurs. Both are virtual triumphs for Iggwilv 
and the daemons. If the party resists and calls 
for aid, then the solar appears and the evil 
creatures flee. Good wins. If the party assists 
the evil forces knowingly, then whoever sur 
vives the contest that follow will possess the 
artifact. Evil will then be empowered to 
sequester it on the Lower Planes, wherever 
they choose. Good will be able to use it as a 
principal weapon on the Prime Material 
Plane, 

Solar's Magical Items: two-handed sword + 5 
(dancing), + 12 (total +11 to hit and +17 
damage). 36* range long bow with seven 
arrows of daemon slaying and 1 anow of 
slaying for each character type ( + 3. +5, 
+ 6 = + 14 to hit), 


44 






While combat with the astral devas will be 
murderous, the solar is assured of killing one 
opponent each time he looses one of his 
arrows. In the initial four rounds of combat, 
the solar will ply his sword, and on the fifth 
through the eighth he will allow the weapon to 
attack alone, while he uses his bow to slay the 
remaining foes. The sword has qualities of 
dancing, but will always be + 5 when not held 
by the solan In any event, on the fifth round of 
combat, the solar will fire twice, both arrows 
loosed kte in the sequence-segments 7 and 
10. Thereafter, the solar will fire on the 1st 
and 3rd segments, so eight opponents will be 
slain after the end of the eighth round due to 
these missiles alone. The solar will slay 
daemons first, starting with the arcana- 
daemon, If all attacks possible are not brought 
to hear upon the solar, there is no hope to win 
the battle. In any event, there is small likeli 
hood of the demons and evil characters win 
ning. but. , , 

Be certain to assist your players in utilizing 
the full power of the daemons if they ally with 
them. In all cases, play the solar and devas to 
their maximum-and then some! This is 
indeed a stacked-deck contest, and Good 
should triumph with ease. 


10, The Lair of the Ape 

This rocky chamber is covered with dry 
vegetation-branches, sticks, and leaves 
all spread around to make it homey for the 
monstrous simian. There is a pool of water 
along the north wall of the place, and this 
undoubtedly serves as the creature's i 
watering place when it choses not to leave 
its lair There is a heap of rubble and boub 
I ders in the southwestern coiner, and it is 
! probable that the ape uses this as a stock of 
missiles to discourage unwanted intruders 
from outside, for the chamber has an open 
ing to the outer world at its western end. 

11. The Outside Ledge 

This large area is open lo the outside world 
on its western end. A small grove of coconut 
trees flourishes in the northeastern comer of 
Area 11. There is a drop of about 200 feet to a 
large lake below. The cliff face is sheer except 
for two smaller ledges 60 and 100 feet below 
Area 11. 


12. The Lake 

This lake extends about a mile to the north 
of Area 11. It is about 30 feet deep below Area 

11 , 


45 







ew monsteRS 


Gongs: The largest of all gargantuan apes, 
Oonga is monarch of the island. He dwells alone, 
Other apes stay away* Creatures too stupid to 
know better are tom to bits and devoured by 
him. The savage Kawibusa tribe offers sacrifices 
to Oonga. thinking the ape is a god. tf Oonga 
happens to be roaming nearby when they sound 
their sacrificial gong and beat their huge drums, 
then he will stop and enjoy the snack-human, 
small ape, swine, or even a specially fattened liz 
ard, for all are surrounded by mounds of 
selected fruits and vegetables as well! 

Oonga travels rapidly, upright and then on all 
four, according to his desire. When charging, he 
can leap 60 feet upward (total upward reach) or 
across. 

Attack is by a pair of clubbing fist blows and 
a bite. Oonga's great strength gives a bonus of 
+ 12 points of damage to the former sort of 
attack mode, and if both fists strike the same 
opponent , then this indicates the mighty sim 
ian has grasped the creature and pulled and 
wrenched it. Such rending inflicts an additional 
1-20 points of damage to the victim. 

If the monster charges and strikes, he has 
grappled with the opponent, and there is a 
50% chance it has been overborne. Such 
overbearing inflicts 2-20 points of damage and 
enables the ape to automatically inflict biting 
damage as well . Of course, Oonga will grapple 
with opponents which are near his size, or 
larger. Against small (man-sized or shorter-8 
feet or less) foes, the gargantuan ape will also 
use a stamping attack, each huge foot inflict 
ing 5-20 points of crushing damage against 
separate opponents. Oonga is also able to 
effectively uproot trees of 90 foot height or 
less and 9 feet or less diameter. Against struc 
tures such as gates and walls. Oonga's dub 
bing attacks and subsequent pushing act as a 
battering ram (qv.* DMG), 

Oonga attacks as a 25+ hit die monster 
(roll to hit scores on the Supplemental Attack 
Matrix for Monsters on page 47), 

Because of his size, heavy coat, thick skim 
and exceptional constitution, Oonga regener 
ates 1 hit point per round, until serious dam 
age (more than 72 points) has been 
accumulated and unregenerated, Such dam 
age is only restored at the rate of 1 point per 
turn, If more than 144 points of damage is suf 
fered, then Oonga will require 1 day per point 
of damage above 144 points sustained. 

Similarly, successful magical attacks such as 
fireballs, lightning bolts, and cold- based ones 
are at -1 per die of damage due to Oonga's 
bulk and toughness. His brain and nervous 
system are such that he can't be magically 
charmed, held, or even slowed. 


FREQUENCY: 

NO, APPEARING: 

ARMOR CLASS: 

MOVE: 

HIT DICE: 

HIT POINTS: 

% IN LAIR: 

TREASURE TYPE: Special 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 3 + 2 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: ldl2 + 12 (x2), 

4d4 T 5d4(x2) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 100% 

INTELLIGENCE: Low to average 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral 

SIZE: L. 30 ft. tall 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

LEVEL/XP VALUE: 31,880 

It is certain that these monsters are not native 
to this place. They, as the other inhabitants, 
were seeded on the island for whatever odd pur 
pose Zagyg had in mind when he devised the 
demi-plane. All of these monstrous creatures 
are omnivorous, preferring vegetation to animal 
matter, but not disdaining the latter if offered. 


Ape, Gargantuan 

Oonga The Others 

Unique Vferv Rare 

1 I 

2 3 

18" + 6 "charge 18" + 6* charge 

24 + 4 18 + 3 

288 hp Var. 

100 % unless encountered randomly 


Nil 

3 + 2 

IdlO + 10(x2) t 
3d4, 4d4(x2) 

See below 
See below 
See below 
Low to average 
Neutral 
L, 24 ft. tall 
Nil 

9,650 + 25/hp 

They are long lived, but the population is too 
small to sustain a viable community, so that 
those on the island are all there are. Perhaps the 
carnivorous apes here are descended from 
these gargantuan simians, but if so no further 
breeding has taken place for years. Those left 
are the last of their kind on the demi-plane. 


46 







































Grasping is an attack form which can be 
applied to any opponent of & feel or less height 
and weighing 500 pounds or less. The mighty 
ape simply wraps the creature within its grasp 
and squeezes. This inflicts 24 points of dam 
age on the round grasping and squeezing 
occurs. The ape will then squeeze and hurl the 
opponent down to the ground and stamp on 
the victim, all during the second round after 
initially grasping. Hurling from a 40-foot 
height inflicts 10d6 + 12 (strength) points of 
damage. 

Oonga is also able to hurl boulders and simi 
lar missiles from 1 to 36* distance. These 
missiles will hit a target area of approximately 
10 feet x 10 feet, and all creatures within the 
target area wiU receive damage. Damage is 
5d4 +12 (strength) and found separately for 
each creature struck. 

Whenever a blow, foot stamp, or grapple 


takes place, all possessions, except weapons, 
must be saved for vs, crushing blow. 

The Others ; There are only five other gargan 
tuan apes on the isle. They are baited at Areas 
32 to 36, They have 168, 159,150.141, and 132 
hit points respectively. Each is female, but they 
are as fierce and aggressive as Qonga with 
respect to all other creatures save the great sim 
ian, For purposes of attack, consider each as a 
monster of IS-19 + hit dice (see Supplemental 
Attack Matrix for Monsters on page 47), 

Rending damage is an additional 1-12 
points. Overbearing inflicts 2-16 points of 
damage. Stamping attack is against opponents 
of 7 feet or less height. Trees of up to 72-foot 
height, 6 feet or less diameter, can be 
uprooted. Battering ram effects are effective 
only every other round. Damage regenerated 
is 1 per round to 25% P 1 per turn from 26% to 
50% t and 1 per day above 51%. Special 


defenses against magic are exactly the same 
as they are for Oonga. 

Gargantuan apes appear to be huge gorillas. 
They have substantially no different appear 
ance, This is not the case with their cousins, 
carnivorous apes t where the jaws have devel 
oped more to suit their diet of flesh. 

Grasping by a lesser g 3 r^ntuan ape inflicts 20 
points of damage per round. Opponents up to 7- 
fbot height and 400 pounds weight can be so 
attacked, Subsequent hurting to the ground is 
from approximately 30-jbot height and inflicts 6d6 
+ 10 (strength) points of additional damage, A 
stamping attack can also Maw on that round. 
Hurling boulders occurs at ranges of 1 to 30 * and 
inflicts 4d4 + 10 (strength) points of damage to 
creatures within tlx? 10 foot x 10 foot target area. 
Checks for hitting and damage are made for each 
potential target, just as is done for the great gar 
gantuan ape when attacking m a similar fasten. 



Supplemental Attack Matrix For Monsters 


Opponent's 
Armor Class 


20-sided Die Score to Hit by 
Monster's Hit Dice 


Negative numbers indicate Additional Damage Inflicted to Automatic Hit 


18-19 + 
15 
14 
13 
12 
11 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 

3 
2 
1 
0 

4 
-2 
-3 
-4 
-5 


20-21 + 
14 
13 
12 
n 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 

3 
2 
1 
0 
-1 
-2 

4 
-5 
-6 


22-23 + 
13 
12 
11 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 

3 
2 
1 
0 
-1 
-2 
-3 

4 
-5 
-6 
-7 


24-25 + 
12 
11 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
0 
-1 
-2 
-3 
-4 
-5 
-6 
-7 
-8 


26 & up 
13 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
0 
-1 
2 

3 

4 
-5 
-6 
-7 
-S 
-9 


47 










Serpent Missile? (Evocation) 

Level: 1 

Components: V,S,M 
Range: 6" + 1 "/level 
Casting Time: 1 segment 

Duration: Special 

Saving Throw: Reduces damage to 1 point per 
missile 

Area of Effect: One or more creatures in a 
100-square-foot area 

Explanation: This spell is a variation of 
the common magic missile spell. It utilizes a 
scale of a venomous snake to produce each 
missile. By throwing erne or more scales, 
depending upon the caster's level, of course, 
one or more glowing green serpent forms 
appear from the caster's fingertips and flash 
towards the desired target(s). If Lhe target 
creature successfully saves % f ersus the spell, 
then only 1 point of damage per serpent mis* 
sile is inflicted. If a save is not made, then 2-8 
points of damage per missile are caused by 
this dweomer. 

This spell is never commonly available, and 
in order to gain it T the magic-user must locate 
it in a spell book some place. 


Log to Lizard (Alteration) Reversible 
Level: 4 

Components: V,S t M 
Range: 3 " 

Casting Time: 7 segments 

Duration: 2 rounds/level 
Saving Throw: None 
Area of Effect: 1 cubic * 

Explanation: This is a special derivation 
of the clerical sticks to snake s spell, and it is 
known only to certain members of lizard deity 
cults and certain primitive s ha men and witch 
doctors. It is virtually the same as the spell 
from which it is derived, but the material com 
ponent is a sizable log. For each clerical level 
of the caster, he or she causes a lizard with 
that number of liit dice to replace the log. Hit 
dice are always full, Le. 8 points per die. The 
lizard brought forth will be a typical giant one, 
but its bite will always be poisonous, so that it 
inflicts 1-8 points of damage, and the victim so 
bitten must also save versus poison or die* 
The reverse of this spell will change any 
lizard-like reptile into a log for the spell's dura 
tion. The number of hit dice of the lizard must 
be equal to, or less than, the level of the cleric 
casting the reversed spell, 


9153XXX150I 


48 


































































L tl l 




























































































nMI'lMMaill'ti 

¦Will 













































































*m5TSK, \nc. All Rights R 











































































XXXX.1 

-* ^ w*. 


i 30 r 

^ T t?t 

tT t r r  
11 rTrt^ijT 

Cfex&fwTr^ff i ti mf^tl 














***£*? ifitjrT T 3'Tjr*' s L\ 

t \V;f ,f f f fr^ 
#fl# T.ftjJ f T f f 
f f I TjMfr f£l 


nt it :> 5 k 

T T VT(J 
UfTf.^r 
QjJ'.H 
t^aZt^f' ¦ 

Jkriijc jtSZtf 


\0'ir rT r ^ 

Tt if rfrf ; frfjpv 

f r r j r r w 
j rt^+itw^ 








1 YTTrYTY 


£ *. [J£l 


.r y't 

KSS, 

T 


f* T rii rr" . 

\7irjr r jr Pxrj 

.ti/f 

1 t f r tfr t" 
f t ff f v*?*# 1 . 
' t if f ff tffij 
T \ff\Jt fC 
M^rr ti£ 
tif^r r tj 

T TJ 
fi 


^XCCC 


. M 

xmtoYI 


A I, I C JTF 

i a "-L*i .XJL1. -LAJvAAJLJL 11 i 

tY^W 

m Yrr r-rr 








RANDOM ENCOUNTER CHART 


Peninsula 

#1-18 

A 

General Island 

B 

C 

#l"-32 

D 

w 

E 

Apes 1 Caverns 
(#1-8) 

Type of Monster 
Encountered 


01-05 

01-07 


- ¦ 

01*06 

_ 

Anatosaur (4-16) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

01*15 

Animal Herd (20-200) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

07-15 

- 

Ankisaur (3-20) 

- 

06-10 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Ankylnsaur (2*5) 

- 

'- 


01-U8 

- 

- 

- 

Am rodt-mus (1 -2) 

- 

11-15 

08-14 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Apatosaur* * (1-4) 

ni-25 

- 

-- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Ape* carnivorous (3* 12} 

26-35 

- 

- 

09-16 

01-12 

16-21 

- 

Ape, giant ram *** (2-5) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

16-30 

Boar, giant (2-8) 

36*60 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Boar, wild (5-20) 

- 

-. 

15-21 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Brae bit jsaur (2*5) 

- 

16-20 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Camarasnur (2*8) 

- 

- 

- 

17-24 

- 

- 

- 

Camp tosau r (5-20) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

31-45 

Cavemen, Hunting (12) 

- 

21-25 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Ccraiosaur (1-4) 

- 

26-35 

-- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Cctiouaur (1-4) 

- 

36-50 

22-28 

- 

-. 

- 

- 

Crocodile, giant (3-12) 

- 

--. 

- 

- 

- 

22-29 

- 

P .1 centrums (2-8) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

30-35 

- 

Dcinonychus (2-5) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

13-22 

- 

- 

Dilnphosuur (5-8) 

- 

- 

29-34 


- 

- 

- 

Dinichtys**** (1-3) 

- 

51-55 

35-42 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Dipltxjocus (1 *4) 

- 

- 

43-49 

- 

--t 

- 

- 

Elasmosaur (1*2) 

- 

56-60 

- 

- 

- 

36-44 

- 

Grogosaur (1-2) 

- 

- 

- 

25-34 

23-35 

- 

- 

Iguonadon (5-20) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

45-50 

- 

Kentrmnur (2-8) 

- 

61-65 

- 

- 

- 

-- 

- 

Lambeosaur (5-20) 

61-85 

- 

- 

- 

36-55 

51-60 

- 

Lizard* giant (3*12) 

- 

-- 

- 

- 

56-61) 

- 

- 

Lizard, minotaur (2-8) 

- 

66*70 

50-55 

- 

- 

-r 

- 

M am r nch i sa u r (1-4) 

- 

- 


35-42 


- 

- 

Masstipondylus (5-20) 

<- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

61-66 

- 

Megidtisaur (1-2) 

- 

-- 

- 

43-52 

- 

- 

- 

Monoclonius (5-20) 

-. 

- 

56-62 

- 


- 

- 

Mosatiaur (1*2) 

-, 

71-75 

- 

- 

¦- 

- 

- 

Paleosc incus (2-5) 

- 

- 

- 

53-02 

- 

- 

-- 

Pen tacerot up 5 ( 3-12) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 


46-60 

Phorarhacofi (2-8) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

67-72 

- 

Platfiosaur (3-20) 

- 

-. 

63-69 

- 

- 

- 


Plesiosaur (1-3) 

86*00 


- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Podc ikesaur (4-16) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

61-66 

- 

- 

Pieranodon (5-20) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

67-77 

- 

-* 

Pterosaur (3-12) 

.- 

- 

-* 

- 

- 

73-78 

- 

Snake, giant cons. (1-2) 

- 

- 

-- 

- 

78-85 

79-84 


Snake, giam pois (2-5) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

85-90 

- 

Snake, gram spit. (1-4) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

91-95 

- 

Stegosaur (2-8) 

- 

- 

- 

- 

86-90 

- 

- 

S truthi omimus (2-8) 

- 

- 

- 

63-70 

- 

- 

- 

Stynuxisaur (3-12) 

- 

76-60 

70-80 

- 


- 

- 

Tanystrophmis (2-5) 

- 

- 

- 

71-76 

- 

- 

- 

Teraiosaur (t-3) 

- 

- 

- 

77-85 

- 

- 

- 

Trice ratop* (2-8) 

- 


- 

B&95 

- 

- 

TT 

Tyranmisaur (1-2) 

- 

- 

- 

_ 

- 

- 

61-73 

Weasel, giant (2-8) 

- 

81-tK) 

81*00 

96-00 

91-00 

96-00 

76*00 

No Encounter** 


Terrain Key for Encounter: 

A =" Swamp rivets, swamp river edges 
B * Rivers* lakes (surface) 

C * Plains and hills 

D " Mountains and tom hills (directly adjacent to mountains) 

£ " Jungle 

* Areas 33-36 arc the principal domain ol the remaining giant carnivorous apes on ihe island There is a 
straight 20% chance to e neon tiler 
3-8 of them (hot Oringa), otherwise use the standard encounter table above, according to the terrain 
the party is on. 

 * A pa tusa ur or Eron tosau r 

Roll kllOO (except in Peninsula). If score is 55 or less, ihc ape is Oonga. Otherwise, the party encounters 
2*5 giant carnivorous apes 
,,M If one or more characters are immersed in water, or a limb is trailing in water, dimchtysca attack. 
Otherwise, ,i fltxrk of 2-8 pterosaurs 
does. 

**'* If there is no encounter, the party then sees one or more of the following fauna of the island: huge 
cockroaches, huge dragonflies, huge 
insects or spider* of all different sorts, large lizards, large tortoises or turtles, large worms, mammoth 
frogs or toads, small crocodiles, 
small dinosaurs. small mammals, snakes of all sons, toothed birds, etc, c ta s 5 TSE, Int. All ftigtn* 
Hetcrvcd 




COMBINED MONSTERS STATISTICS CHART 


NAME 

AC 

HD 

hp* 

A3' 

THACO 

D 

MV 

AE 

xp*- 

BOOK 

SIZE 

SA 

SO 

Anatosaur (Trschodon) 

5 

12 

54 

1 

9 

1-4 

12* 

N 

2,164 

MM1 

30' + 

No 

No 

Animal Herd 

a-7 

1-5 

Var* 

Var 

Var. 

Var* 

15* to 24 * 

N 

Var, 

MM1 

Var. 

Yes 

No 

Ankisaur 

7 

2 

9 

1 

16 

1-4 

12 * 

N 

38 

MM2 

7' 

No 

Yes 

Ankylosaur 

0 

9 

40 

1 

12 

3-18 

6 # 

N 

1,380 

MM 1 

15' + 

No 

No 

Amrodemus 

5 

15 

68 

3 

8 

l-4(*2)/6-24 

15* 

N 

3,860 

MM 1 

30' 

No 

No 

Apatosaur (Brontosaur) 

5 

30 

135 

1 

i 

3-18 

6" 

N 

9,725 

MM1 

70 r 

No 

No 

Ape, carnivorous 

6 

5 

27 

3 

15 

1-4(x2)/1-8 

12 * 

N 

305 

MM1 

7' + 

Yes 

No 

Ape, giant carnivorous 

3 

18 + 3 

Var. 

5 

5 

1-10+ 10(x2) 
3-12/4-16(x2) 

IS * ( + 6") 

N 

10,175 

New 

24 r + 

Yes 

Yes j 

Area n adaemo n 

*2 

13 + 39 

120 

4 

8 

1-4(x2)/1-6/2-16 

12718* 

NE 

9,110 

MM2 

6' 

Yes 

Yes 

Boar, giant 

6 

7 

32 

1 

13 

3-18 

12 * 

N 

481 

MM 1 

y 

No 

No 

Boar, wild 

7 

3 + 3 

17 

1 

16 

3-12 

15 * 

N 

153 

MM1 

3' 

No 

No 

Brachiosaur 

5 

36 

162 

1 

1 

5-20 

6* 

N 

10,670 

MMl 

etr 

No 

No 

Gamarasaur 

6 

20 

90 

1 

4 

3-12 

6 * 

N 

6,700 

MM1 

50' 

No 

No 

Gamptosaur 

7 

1-3 

Var, 

- 

- 

- 

9" to 18* 

N 

Var. 

MM2 

Var, 

No 

No 

Caveman 

8 

2 

9 

1 

16 

by weapon 

12* 

N 

38 

MM1 

M 

No 

No 

Ceratosaur 

5 

8 

36 

3 

12 

1 -6{x2)/4-l6 

15* 

N 

1,032 

MM1 

17- 

No 

No 

Ceitosaur 

f> 

24 

108 

1 

2 

3-18 

6* 

N 

8,780 

MM1 

GO' 

No 

No : 

Crocodile, giant 

4 

7 

32 

2 

13 

3-18/2-20 

67/12* 

N 

656 

MMt 

30' + 

No 

No 

Dacentrurus 

3/6 

10 

45 

I 

10 

2-16 

9 * 

N 

1,530 

MM2 

13' 

No 

Yes 

Deinonychus 

4 

4+ 1 

19 

3 

15 

!-2( x2)/l -8 

21*; 1 "jump 

N 

225 

MM2 

12' 

Yes 

No j 

Dilophosaur 

5 

8 + 2 

38 

3 

12 

2-12fx2)/l-G 

18 7 1 * jump 

N 

1,056 

MM2 

20' 

No 

No 

Dinichtys 

7 

10 

45 

1 

10 

5-20 

21* 

N 

2,130 

MMl 

25' + 

Yes 

No 

Diplod ucuji 

6 

24 

108 

1 

2 

3-18 

6* 

N 

8,187 

MM 1 

00' 

No 

No 

Dev a, astral 

-6 

9 +36 

90 

2 

12 

4-15 + 6{x2) 

187427/15* 

G 

12,350 

MM2 

7' 

Yes 

Yes 

Elasroosaur 

7 

15 

68 

1 

8 

4-24 

15 * 

N 

3,760 

MMl 

50' 

No 

No 

Gorgosaur 

5 

13 

59 

3 

9 

l-3(jc2)/7-28 

15* 

N 

2,862 

MMl 

30' + 

No 

No 

Iguanadon 

4 

6 

27 

3 

13 

l-3(*2)/2-8 

15* 

N 

312 

MMl 

30' 

No 

No 

Kentrosaur 

2/6 

11 

50 

l 

10 

4-16 

9* 

N 

2,800 

MM2 

16' +- 

No 

No 

Lamheosatir 

6 

12 

54 

1 

9 

2-12 

12* 

N 

2,164 

MMl 

20' + 

No 

No 

Lizard, giant 

5 

3 + 1 

15 

I 

16 

1-8 

15* 

N 

185 

MMl 

15' 

Yes 

No 

Lizard, minutaur 

3 

8 

36 

3 

12 

2-12(at2)/3-18 

6* 

N 

1,235 

MMl 

40' 

Yes 

No 

Lizard, subterranean 

5 

6 

27 

1 

13 

2-12 

12* 

N 

512 

MMl 

20 J 

Yes 

No 

Mamenchisaur 

7 

18 

81 

1 

5 

2-16 

6* 

N 

5,025 

MM2 

80 J 


No 

No 

Massopondylus 

5 

7 

32 

1 

13 

3-12 

15* 

N 

481 

MM2 

18' + 

No 

Megalosaur 

5 

12 

54 

1 

9 

3-18 

12* 

N 

2,160 

MMl 

25' 

No 

No 

MeWrOdacmon 

-3 

10 + 40 

85 

2 or 

1 10 

7-l2(x2)or 
by weapon + 6 

15* 

NE 

3,890 

FF 

7' 

Yes 

Yes 

Monodonius 

3/4 

8 

36 

1 

12 

2-16 

6* 

N 

838 

MMl 

18' 

No 

No 

Mosasaur 

7 

12 

54 

1 

9 

4-32 

3 7/15* 

N 

2,272 

MMl 

50' 

No 

No 

Oonga 

2 

24 + 4 

288 

5 

1 

1-12 + 12(*2)/ 
4-16/5-20(i2) 

18*( + 6*) 

N 

28,800 

New 

30' 

Yes 

Yes 

Paleosc incus 

-3 

9 

41 

l 

12 

2-12 

3* 

N 

1,792 

MMl 

20' 

No 

Yes 

Pent ace rat ups 

a/6 

12 

54 

3 

9 

1-6/1 10(x2) 

9* 

N 

2,272 

MMl 

20' + 

No 

Yes 

Phororhacos 

6 

7+7 

39 

3 

12 

l-4(x2)/2-12 

15*; 1* jump 

N 

990 

MM2 

10' 

Yes 

No 

Planetar 

*7 

Spec, 

144 

3 

7 

by weapon 
+ 7{x3> 

15 748 7/24* 

G 

65,040 

MM2 

8.5' 

Yes 

Yes 

PUiteosaur 

5 

8 

36 

- 

- 

- 

12* 

N 

735 

MMl 

20' + 

No 

No 

Plesiosaur 

7 

20 

90 

1 

4 

5-20 

15* 

N 

6,700 

MMl 

50' + 

Yes 

No 

Podokesaur 

4 

2 + 2 

11 

3 

16 

V 1/2-5 

21 * 

N 

68 

MM2 

10 P 

No 

No 

Ptcranodon 

7 

3 + 3 

17 

1 

16 

2-8 

3715* 

N 

153 

MMl 

30' 

No 

No 

Pterosaur 

Snake, 

3 

6 + 6 

33 

1 

(3 

3-12 

3712* 

N 

614 

MM2 

30' 

Yes 

No 

! 

giant constrictor 

5 

6+1 

28 

2 

13 

[-4/2-8 

9* 

N 

449 

MMl 

Large 

Yes 

No 

Snake, giant poisonous 

5 

4 + 2 

11 

I 

15 

1-3 

15* 

N 

445 

MMl 

Large 

Yes 

No 

Snake, giant spitting 

5 

4 + 2 

a 

1 

15 

1-3 

12* 

N 

445 

MMl 

Large 

Yes 

No 

Solar 

-9 

Spec, 

177 

4 

7 

Special by weapon 
+ I2(x4) 

187407/18* 

G 

101,195 

MM2 

10'^ 

Yes 

Yes 

,1 

Stegosaur 

2/3 

18 

81 

I 

5 

5-20 

6* 

N 

5,025 

MMl 

25' 

No 

No j 

Struthiomimus 

6 

6 + 3 

30 

3 

13 

I-2(*2)/2-8 

IS* 

N 

465 

MM2 

16' 

No 

No ¦ 

Styracosaur 

2/4 

10 

45 

1 

10 

2-16 

6* 

N 

2,580 

MMl 

18' 

No 

Yes 

Tanystropheus 

5 

6 + 6 

33 

l 

13 

5-12 

67/18* 

N 

705 

MM2 

40' 

Yes 

No 

Tcrato^aur 

5 

10 

45 

3 

10 

l-3(x2)/3-l8 

18* 

N 

1,530 

MMl 

20' 

No 

No 

Triceratops 

2/6 

16 

72 

3 

7 

l-8/2-l£(x2) 

9* 

N 

5,440 

MMl 

24' 4 - 

No 

No 

Tyrannosaur 

3 

ia 

81 

3 

5 

l-6(x2)/5-40 

15* 

N 

8,875 

MMl 

50' 

No 

No 

Weasel, giant 6 3 + 3 

* The hit points given in this chart are 
* * The XP value varies according to the 

17 1 

averages. ' 
creature*s 

16 2-12 15* 

Modify them if the adventurers art powerful, 
hit points, (see hit points in this chart) 

N 

193 

MMl 

M 

Yes 

No 








Advanced DungeonsSi>ragons(r) 

>X"OR|X)ofGR^HaWK 

Fantasy World Adventure 


Isle of the Ape 

by Gary Gygax 


You stand before a great throne of lapis lazuli. 
The massive chamber is also blue, even the air 
has an indigo quality, perhaps from the 
strangely convoluted coils of smoke rising 
from the braziers of azure metal. Encompassed 
by the great chair is a man whose presence 
inspires awe, Tenser the Arch mage. 

High above the City of Greyhawk, some 
where upon the lonely south coast of the Nyr 
Dyv, you and your associates trekked to 
answer a summons that could not be taken 
lightly. You are about to begin a quest to a mys 
terious island where lies the fabled Crook of 
Rao. Only the bravest can face the isle's 
obscure jungles, its most fearsome monsters, 
and its ultimate secret. Can you survive where 
even the mighty followers of Tenser have 
failed? 

Isle of the Ape is a challenging adventure for 
high-level play. This adventure, designed for 
the WORLD OF GREYHAWK'* Campaign, is 
for use with Unearthed Arcana. 

An Adventure for Character Levels 18 and up 


t Copyright 1983 T3R Inc, All Rights Reserved. Printed In ii.S.A. 


TSR Inc. 

ROB 756 
Lake Geneva* 
W1 53147 


TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB14AD 
United Kingdom 


ISBN 0-88038 238-4 
394-54B77-9TSR075G 






















