Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09512 AD& D. . Odyssey. . Jakandor Isle. Of. Destiny.(lvl. All)(no. OCR.or. BM)"
See other formats













Rahdok Encountsr Tables 



(Hear 

Forest 

Ruins 

Mountains 

Swamp 

2 

Fire Beetle (18) 

Hangman TVee (293) 

Living Wall (224) 

Fire Lizard (226) 

Sword Spider (326) 

3 

Obliviax (293) 

Horse (194) 

Olive Slime (276) 

Peryton (286) 

Thomslinger (291) 

4 

Horse (194) 

Charonti scholars (196) 

Common Mimic (250) 

Gorgon (172) 

Killer Frog (119) 

5 

Charonti scholars (196) 

Owlbear (284) 

Tlinnel Worm (42) 

Megalo-centipede (42) 

Poisonous Frog (119) 

6 

Undead" 

Brown Bear (17) 

Knorr/Outcast 

Minotaur Lizard (226) 

Slime Creature (276) 

7 

Giant Lizard (226) 

Mountain Lion (36) 

Carrion Crawler (35) 

Fire Beetle (18) 

Will o'wisp (361) 

8 

Knorr/Outcast 

Knorr 

Otyugh (283) 

Mountain Lion (36) 

Giant Frog (119) 

9 

Cattle (243) 

Wild Stag (241) 

Common Bat (15) 

Cave Bear (17) 

Crocodile (49) 

10 

Antelope (243) 

Wolf (362) 

Undead** 

Wild Eagle (27) 

Giant Tick (204) 

11 

Knorr/Outcast 

Wild Boar (241) 

Giant Centipede (42) 

Goat (241) 

Giant Slug (319) 

12 

Wolf (362) 

Black Bear (17) 

Shrieker (120) 

Huge Bat (15) 

G. Constrict Snake (320) 

13 

Jackal (241) 

Undead** 

Giant Rat (300) 

Huge Spider (326) 

Large Spider (326) 

14 

Gt Poison Snake (320) 

Omen* 

Lurker (229) 

Omen* 

Omen* 

15 

Boring Beetle (18) 

Stag Beetle (18) 

Gelatinous Cube (278) 

Griffon (178) 

Giant Leech (219) 

16 

Phase Spider (326) 

Anhkeg (7) 

Gas Spore (120) 

Wyvem (366) 

Giant Crocodile (49) 

17 

Lycanthrope* 

Lycanthrope* 

Crawling Claw (48) 

Lycanthrope* 

Knorr/Outcast 

18 

Greater Basilisk (14) 

Phase Spider (326) 

Slithering TVacker (280) 

Knorr/Outcast 

Hydra (200) 

19 

Amphisbaena (320) 

Bulette (33) 

Ascomoid (120) 

Displacer Beast (56) 

Pyrohydra (200) 

20 

Bulette (33) 

Aurumvorax (10) 

Brown Mold (255) 

Roc (303) 

Shambling Mound (293) 


Badlands 

Grassland 

Ocean 

Lycanthrope* 

Undead** 

2 

Lesser Basilisk (14) 

Behir (20) 

Kraken (331) 

Shark (117) 

Haunt (186)" 

3 

Megalo-centipede (42) 

Megalo-centipede (42) 

Giant Whale (358) 

Shark (117) 

Heucuva (188) 

4 

LeuCTOtta (221) 

Horse (194)/Undead" 

Giant Shark (117) 

Werebat (233) 

Mummy (261) 

5 

Behir (20) 

Charonti scholars 

Giant Crab (50) 

Wereraven (238) 

Wight (360)* 

6 

Horse (194) 

Undead** (Horse) 

Giant Squid (331) 

Wererat (237) 

Crawling Claw (48) 

7 

Giant Toad (345) 

Giant Toad (345) 

Dolphin (59) 

Wereboar (235) 

Animal Skeleton (315) 

8 

Outcast/Charonti scholars Huge Spider (326) 

Sea Lion (310) 

Grizzly Bear (17) 

Ghoul (131)* 

9 

Huge Scorpion (309) 

Giant Centipede (42) 

Shark (117) 

Rat Pack (300) 

Serathi 

10 

Undead** 

Wolf (362) 

Common Whale (358) 

Werewolf (240) 

Skeleton (315) 

11 

Giant Lizard (226) 

Antelope (243)/Knorr 

KiUer Whale (358) 

Wolves (362) 

Common Zombie (373) 

12 

Large Spider (326) 

Poison Snake (320) 

Strangleweed (293) 

Werewolf (240) 

Skeleton (315) 

13 

Giant Ant (204) 

Large Spider (326) 

Knorr/Charonti scholars 

Wild Boars (241) 

Common Zombie (373) 

14 

Giant Scorpion (309) 

Giant Scorpion (309) 

Sea Lion (310) 

Weretiger (239) 

Ghast (131)' 

15 

Poisonous Toad (345) 

Poisonous Toad (345) 

Dolphin (59) 

Wererat (237) 

Monster Skeleton (315) 

16 

Omen* 

Omen* 

Omen* 

Wereboar (235) 

Ju-Ju Zombie (373) 

17 

Gorgon (172) 

Blink Dog (57) 

Hippocampus (189) 

Werebear (234) 

Crypt Thing (51) 

18 

Hippogriff (190) 

Lycanthrope* 

Narwhal (358) 

Werebat (233) 

Wraith (365)* 

19 

Bulette (33) 

Insect Swarm (206) 

Giant Octopus (271) 

Seawolf (232) 

Ghost (130)* 

20 

Fire Lizard (226) 

Snapper-Saw (291) 

Leviathan (358) 

Seawolf (232) 

Spectre (323)* 


The numbers in parenthesis "(117)" indicate the page number in the Monstrous Manual(tm) tome where a 
description o/this creature is/ound. 
When two entries are listed afier a number, the/irst creature type is located in the wilderness areas, 
while creature listed after the slash "/" is the 
result when the encounter occurs near a ruin or Charonti settlement. 


Lycanthrope" 

Undead" 

Ghast(131) 

Omens* 


- roll again on the Lycanthrope subtable )br speci/ic creature type encounter. 

" roll again on the Undead subtable jbr specifc creature type encountered. 

-- these creatures are not Charonath created by the Charonti Serathi, rather they are disembodied 
spirits or/easters on the dead, by-products 
of animating the dead. 

- an "OMEN" is an event or sigthing that seems to bode fair or ill for the heroes. The DM should create 
omens that forewarn the heroes of 
the nature of an upcoming encounter, lead them to the right path, or just to enhance the mood of the 
adventure creating a sense of wonder, 
dread, anger, or some other emotional response. Omens may use traditional superstitious symbols or 
they may be inventions of the DM. 
Some examples of omens; 

Ravens circling An animal caught in the brush A light or fire flickering and going out 

Something falling across the path Finding a lucky item, (coins or clovers) The clouds parting 

A shadow falling across the heroes Something breaking ... and so forth. 









JAKANDOR: 
ISLE OF DESTINY 


Player's Guide 


Credits 

Design; Kirk Botula with Dale Donovan 
Editing: Kim Mohan & Harold Johnson 
Creative Direction: Harold Johnson 
Cover Art; Terese Nielsen 
Interior Art: Rick Hicker 
Cartography: Rob Lazaretti and Diesel 
Graphic Design: Matt Adelsperger & Dee Barnett 
Art Direction: Dawn Murin 
Typesetting: Angelika Lokotz 
Special Thanks to Jeff Grubb & David Wise 


U.S., CANADA, 

ASIA, PACIFIC, & LATIN AMERICA 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 

P.O. Box 707 
Renton, WA 98057-0707 

+1-206-624-0933 _ 

Visit our website at www. 



EUROPEAN HEADQUARTERS 
Wizards of the Coast, Belgium 
P.B. 34 

2300 Himhout 
Belgium 
+32-14-44-30-44 
tsr.com 


Advanced Dungeons & dragons, AD&D, dungeon master, and the TSR logo are registered trademarks 
owned by TSR, Inc. 

ODYSSEY and Monstrous Manual are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. All TSR characters and the 
distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks 
owned by TSR, Inc. The characters and events described in this book are fictional. Any resemblance 
between the characters and any person, living 

or dead, is purely coincidental. 

(c)1998 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. Made in the U.S.A. TSR, Inc. is a subsidiary of Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc. 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc. and in Canada by Random 
House of Canada, Ltd. 

Distributed to the hobby, toy, and comics trade in the United States and Canada by regional distributors. 

Distributed worldwide by Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and regional distributors. 

This material is protected under the copjpght laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the 
material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written consent of TSR, Inc. 

ISBN 0-7869-1245-6 9512XXX1501 



Table of Contents 


Introduction: Welcome to Jakandor .. .4 


Chapter One: History .6 

How the World Was Made.6 

Golden Age of Man .7 

Shadow People.7 

The Wasting Plague.8 

Living Like Shadow People .9 

The Magelords.9 

The Royal House Lives On.9 

Rebirth of the Nation.10 

How Nefti Drove Back the Plague.11 

Since the Congregation.11 

Our Duty.11 

Ch^ter TWo: Society .12 

The Charonti World.12 

The Just Society.13 

The Caste System .13 

Binding the Queen.13 

Scholars.14 

Guildsmen .15 

Outcasts .15 

Social Mobility .16 

The Undead .16 

Civil Centers.16 

Charonti Homes.17 

Government of the Crown.18 

The Court .18 

The Council .18 

The Vizier .19 

The Jurists.19 

The High Guardian.20 

Magic and Technology.20 

The Addakainen.20 

Paths of Education.21 

Children's School.21 

Open School.22 

School of the Guardians .22 

Colleges of Wizardry .22 

Guilds and Education.23 

The Dodecon and Spell Registry.23 

Charonti Religion.23 

Thanhotepic Religion.24 

Other Religions.25 

TheKnorr.25 

Charonti Names.26 

Chapter Three: Creating Characters . .28 

Basic TYaits .28 

Languages.28 

Castes of Characters .28 

Necessary Game Rules .29 


Character Kits.30 

Common Wizard Traits .30 

Wizard Kits.31 

Elder Spells.31 

Artificer.32 

Finder .33 

Galvanist.35 

Porter.36 

Render.37 

Sandman.38 

Shadow Mage.40 

Warden.42 

Dilettante .44 

Rogue Kits.45 

Bandit.45 

Chirurgeon .45 

Companion.46 

Guildsman .47 

Scribe.48 

Priest Kits.50 

Cultist.50 

Jurist .51 

Pantheist.53 

Philosopher.54 

Thanhotepic.56 

Warrior Kit: Guardian .57 

Chapter Four; Playing Charonti.58 

charonti Caste System .58 

Scholar Caste.58 

Guildsman Caste .60 

Outcasts .60 

Role-Playing the Castes.61 

Scholar Priests .61 

Scholar Wizards.61 

Scholar Rogues.61 

Scholar Warriors.62 

Guild Priests.62 

Guild Wizards.62 

Guild Rogues.63 

Guild Warriors .63 

How Guildsmen View Outcasts.64 

Outcast Priests.64 

Outcast Wizards.64 

Outcast Rogues.64 

Outcast Warriors .65 

Status of the Undead.65 

Charonti Ideal of Duty and Justice.66 

Social Standing and Etiquette.66 

Charonti Party Construction.67 

Crown Expeditions.67 

Positions in a Crown Expedition.67 

Resources and Services.68 


ft • Tasu of Contihts 






































































































Table oe Contents 


Experience Bonuses Restrictions .68 

The Rules of Engagement.69 

College Expeditions .70 

Guild Expeditions.70 

Declaring Treasure.70 

Mentors and Character Advancement ... .71 

Advancement Among Scholars.71 

Advancement Among Guildsmen.71 

Advancement Among Outcasts.72 

Charonti Justice .72 

The Queen .72 

The Jurists.72 

Functions of Jurists .73 

The Judicial Process.73 

Justice in the Outlands .73 

Chapter Five: New Rules & Tools ... .74 

Equipment: What's Available .74 

Trade in the Charonti Culture.74 

Trade in the Civil Centers .74 

Trade in the Outlands .75 

Equipment Lists and Tables .76 

Equipment Descriptions .77 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies .79 

Bone Carving .79 

Read Magic.79 

Charonath: The Undead .80 

Death Among the Charonti.80 

Rending: The Process of Rebirth.80 

The Serathi.81 

The Serataar.81 

The Shaddoc.81 

The Spirit .81 

Undead of the Outlands .82 

Gems of the Charonath.82 

Charonti Machines.82 

Bonebat: Apparatus of Sight.82 

Whaleship: Apparatus of Flight .84 

Bone Mole: Apparatus of Drilling.84 

Levitating Barge.84 

Charonti Elixirs .84 

The Wasting Plague.86 

How Is It Spread?.86 

What Happens to a Victim?.86 

How Is It Treated?.87 

Side Effects.87 

The Plague and the Knorr.87 

Chapter Six: New Spells and Magic . .88 

Charonti Spells.88 

Lost Magic. .88 

The Spell Registry .88 

The Known Spells .89 


Spell Research.89 

New Wizard Spells.91 

First-level Spells.91 

Second-level Spell .92 

Third-level Spells.94 

Fourth-level Spell.96 

Fifth-level Spells.97 

New Priest Spells.98 

First-level Spell.98 

Second-level Spell .98 

Special Magical Items .99 

Ring of Spell Recall.99 

Pendant of the Just Society.99 

Amulet of Pure Light.99 

Home Gate .99 

Perfect Valise.99 

Bridge of Bones.99 

Appendices .100 

Important Charonti Personages .100 

The Charonti Nation .102 

Map of Alchatay.102 

The City of Alchatay .103 

Map of Amarufe .104 

City of Amaruk.105 

Map of Nefeneser .106 

Charonti Architecture .106 

City of Nefeneser.107 

Map of Orchalcum .108 

City of Orchaleum .109 


Territories and Features of Jakandor ... .110 


tAUlM Of CONTIMTS • 3 
















































































Introduction: 



bleached plain -jj 
lie the sprawling f ! 

ruins of a once great city. For ^ 

miles, huge crumbling walls rise up like 
broken cliffs. Deep within the ashes of ^ 

this elder empire, the descendants of a lost ,a 
and golden age have begun the process of re- 
claiming their birthright. These wise and gen- 
tie people with a passion for learning, wisdom, 
and justice are beginning to forge a new civiliza- ' 
tion-a civilization that will bring peace and 
prosperity to the darkened world around them and 
raise knowledge and magic to levels unimagined by 
their ancestors. 

In the austere Court of the queen, philosophers 
gather to conceive their vision of the just society. In 
the queen's council, high wizards pore over ancient 
documents and plan expeditions to recover lost magic 
that exists now only in legend. At the borders of the 
ruins, keen-witted officers command legions of un 
dead laborers as they clear the rubble and begin to re 
store the former beauty of the abandoned quarters of 
the cities. These people keep their deceased ancestors 
close beside them. They allow their fallen family 
members to return and serve the community even be 
yond their life, performing manual labor so as to free 
the living to use their intellect and wisdom for the 
benefit of all. 

Welcome to Jakandor, island home of the ancient 
people who call Aemselves the Charonti (sha RON ty). 


Using this Player's Guide, \ 

players may create unique he- 
roes of the Charonti, a nation of 
specialized wizards. The DM's ^ 

Guide presents the Dungeon Master 
with the tools to create their the Knor- 
rman enemies. The third and final product in this 
set, JAKANDOR: Land of Legend, presents the Dungeon 
Master with the tools to create never-ending adven 
tures in this wilderness. 


For the Charonti the terms "duty" and "justice" define 
what it means to be human. A people descended from 
survivors of an apocalyptic plague, the Charonti are 
struggling to reclaim their island home and past glory! 

JAKANDOR; Isle of Destiny is one of three products 
presenting a new campaign setting pitting a nation of 
wizards against tribes of barbarians in a battle to 
claim the strange lands of Jakandor. This set and its 
companion product, JAKANDOR; Island of War, are de 
signed to be read and used by players of the Advanced 
Dungeons & Dragons* game. Each of these products 
describes a different culture that believes itself to be 
the highest form of civilization, and the other as deca- 


Players will find the Charonti to be a rational and 
wise people, a thoughtful race of scholars and explor 
ers. Theirs is a highly magical culture that places duty 
to the community and social justice above all things, 
including their personal goals. The Charonti are sur 
vivors who are in danger of losing their magnificent 
heritage of learning and magic to their enemy the bar 
baric Knorr (NOR). 

The Knorr are a beast-like race of superstitious 
savages who have invaded the island. They are them 
selves survivors of a mindless war that they started 
and which ultimately drove them from their home 
land. The Knorr appear to fear magic and revel in 


4 • INTRODUCTION 





s 


blood 
shed. They 
have begun to system 
atically plunder the an 
cient ruins of the Charonti, 
destroying all vestiges of the once 
high culture in order to create trophies 
for dieir lodges. The Knorr seem bent on 
annihilating any remnants of the Charonti 
ancestry and destroying their undead ances 
tors of this ancient people and the servants of 
society with a mindless and insatiable rage. If the 
Charonti cannot stop the howling Knorr, they will lose 
everything their people were, and everything they 
might become. 

This booklet presents the history, culture, and 
creations of this kind people. Here too are rules for 
creating new character kits for this nation of spell- 
casters. The information is presented in these sec 
tions; 

Chapter One describes the history of the Charonti 
people. It follows them from the dawn of Time 
through the age of the Wasting Plague and beyond to 
the reconstruction of the last 150 years. It is a story of 
glory and beauty lost, death, a difficult survival, and 
finally rebirth. The retelling of this history reminds 
each Charonti of the importance of duty and the na 
ture of the cycles that rule all things. 

Chapter TWo gives an overview of Charonti soci 
ety. Many of the ideas introduced in this chapter are 
explained in detailed rules elsewhere in this book. 
This chapter describes all the important threads that 
form the fabric of Charonti life and provides a context 
for the chapters that follow. 


Chapter Three 
describes all 
the distinctive and 
varied Charonti Character 
Kits. Nine new specialized wizard 
kits are provided. Most wizards are 
members of the Addakainen, a group of 
colleges that strive to recover the lost lore 
and knowledge of the past. Priest kits are in 
cluded that reflect the decline in religious 
faith and the rise in a belief that the redemp 
tion of the Charonti will come through devo 
tion to their just society. A few priests who 
continue to devote themselves to the dwin 
dling faith of the god of their ancestors as well 
as the gods of primitive peoples whose worship is 
described in the ruins of their lost civilization are also 
presented. Charonti society includes a handful of 
rogue kits, ranging from dedicated administrators of 
the Crown to lawless bandits. Finally, the single type 
of Charonti warrior kit, who commands the legions of 
undead, as well as a kit that allows players to try the 
role of one of the unliving Charonath (SHA ro nath), 
are detailed. 

Chapter Four is packed with ideas and rules that 
define Charonti culture. Their complex caste system is 
explained, as well as how they structure their expedi 
tions into the ruins. 

Chapter Five covers arms and equipment and in 
troduces some new non-weapon proficiencies. Magi 
cal items that are so common that they can be 
purchased in marketplaces are described. The en 
chanted unliving machines of the Charonti as well as 
the mysterious technology of the elder civilization are 
explained also. 

Chapter Six presents new spells and magical 
items that are the pride of Charonti research and 
learning. 

Though players may read all the information in 
this book, they should understand that the DM still 
has the right and the responsibility to add, delete, or 
change any of this material to create the type of cam 
paign he is most comfortable with. However the DM 
chooses to change what is presented here, the result 
ing world will be one with a lot of challenge and ex 
citement. 

The culture of the Charonti grows from the tradi 
tions of magic and a reasoning society, both real and 
imagined. Isle of Destiny describes a world that may 
seem familiar in many ways, but is also different from 
any other roleplaying game setting. Players have can 
experience and enjoy the sense of discovery that the 
Charonti feel as they explore their ancient island 
home. 

Knowledge is power! 


Wf LCOKf TO lAKAMDOR • 5 





Instead, 


with jealousy. In their 
own limitless vanity they fol 
lowed suit and crowded the world 


wim squaua races or au snapes ana ais- 
positions. But the breath of the wind and the 
heart of the earth had already been expended to 
create the Charonti. There were only poor scraps 
left, and when the lesser gods made their people, 
they made sad fragments of men who were but 
shadows of the Charonti. They could not give the 
shadow races the wisdom to know justice, and as 
such those races could never know peace. They 
could never know happiness, and they warred 
among themselves. 

The simplest of the gods were left with noth 
ing to make but the beasts that fed upon one an 
other and lived their short lives in savagery and 
fear. All the world was peopled to howl its ca 
cophonous praise to the petty gods who never tire 
of hearing it ring through the firmament. In their 


gift to my 
brother 
NadaaI,/or 
study and 
commitment 
to memory 

upon his departure to the Addakainen. Little 
brother, though you have heard these stories 
many times, I have written them for you so that 
you may commit them to your memory. Perfect 
your recall and strengthen your mind so that you 
may study magic at the Addakainen in the tradition of 
your lineage. Duty to your ancestors luill bring learning to 
your children. Through the learning of our people we shall 
cast darkness from the luorld. 


We are the Charonti, the First People. We were 
made, as were all peoples, in the image of a god. 
We were made by the first god, the god of death 
and rebirth, the sleeping god, whose name we 
must not speak lest we wake him. For where the 
gods are drawn, there can be no peace. 

We were the First People, and like all people 
that follow, we were bom out of the vanity of a 
god. Not satisfied with the limits of his dominion, 
our god made the heavens and the earth and the 
cycles which rule them. He created the cycles of 
time and space, and of life and death. All these 
things he set into motion so that he might set 
within it all the Charonti, perfect creatures who 
would adore their maker and in their adoration 
exalt him and elevate him above all the lesser 
gods. He expected the lesser gods to stand in awe 
and wonder at the perfection of his creation. 


How THE WOULD 
WASKADE 


6 • Ckaptir Ohc 

































As you know, little brother, we were made in the 
image of a god. We were a pious people who served 
the god dutifully and loved wisdom. The god set us 
alone and apart from the world on our island home 
of Jakandor the Forge, so named because it is the 
forge on which man was created, and the forge on 
which man in turn created civilization. 

Like the god who made us, we were prey to 
vanity and pettiness, but our love of wisdom was 
greater than our worst faults. We found the wis 
dom of living in peace, and we invented language. 
Soon we discovered that the source of strength in 
man lay in the very bones of his body-for it is 
from the substance of bone that magic draws its 
life. Our love of learning allowed us to master the 


forces of magic, 
which in turn allowed 
us to defeat the finality 
of death. 

We erected vaulting and 
beautiful cities that spread 
across the plains of Jakandor. We 
studied the stars in the heavens 
and the minerals of the earth. We 
learned how to harness energy both 
magical and mundane to build great 
machines and free man to pursue 
still greater learning. We knew the 
duty of preserving the knowledge of our ancestors, 
so that our children might extend it beyond our 
own imagining. We learned that through learning 
there is no death, for the knowledge of our ances 
tors may be passed on to the living. 

In all of our discovery and invention we were 
filled with wonder at the wisdom of our god. We 
believed that our god had been devoted to his 
people, and that all things of our own making 
were in fact the gifts and workings of the god. The 
heavens must have echoed with the songs we 
lifted to praise our maker. 


Shadow people 


The time came when our airships and enchanted 
portals carried us beyond the shores of our island 
home. Our priests, who were in that age men of 
great learning, had calculated the dimensions of 
the world, and our people looked forward to ven 
turing out across it with great excitement. 

The first expedition was launched under the 
rule of Ihnkaheser XXIII in the year 4335 of the 
Hramnethes dynasty. The first expedition was led 
by Ihnkaheser himself, and what he found be 
yond the shores of Jakandor moved him to tears. 
There he found the simple races of men, the 
shadow people that the lesser gods made in the 
image of the Charonti. They were men like beasts, 
living in darkness and fear. Made in the image of 
their gods, they behaved like those gods and 
warred among themselves for pleasure and 
power. They hunted one another like the animals 
in the forest. They did not have the wisdom in 
them to know peace. 


ambi 
tion the gods 
did not remember 
that the first thing set 
in motion was the 
cycle that would rule all 
things-even the gods 
themselves. 


CrOLDEH AGE 

OE Kan 


History • z 

































The Poem of the Traveler describes Ihnkaheser's 
sorrow and loneliness as he sailed across the world 
in his great airship and looked upon the chaos and 
bloodshed that raged below him. He brooded in his 
palace in Alchatay for ten years after his return and 
would speak to no one. Then one day he ordered 
one hundred airships to be outfitted like his own 
and prepared for sailing. When the work was done, 
he announced that we would turn our eyes and 
hearts outward. We would take fire and magic to 
the simple races. We would teach them language. 
We would teach them the wisdom of our god, Ae 
cycle of life, death, and rebirth-for the simple 
races killed because they feared death; they did not 
know that all things are ruled by the cycles, which 
will bring them back to life again if only as memo 
ries in the living. The Charonti would bring light 
and peace to the savage world of the simple men. 
As you know, little brother, we were made in the 
image of a god. 

The work begun by Ihnkaheser continued for a 
thousand years. We brought peace where we 
walked. We taught where we were able, ruled where 
we were required to, and destroyed only where we 
had no choice. If there is still magic and beauty be 
yond our shores, it is a lasting gift from our people. 

In the thousand years we built great libraries 
where we catalogued all the plants and beasts of 
the world. We built menageries where wonderful 


animals were studied and trained. We docu 
mented the histories and legends of the shadow 
people. We recorded their songs and collected 
their art. We observed their religions and learned 
the nature of the lesser gods. We even invited the 
wisest of the simple races to dwell among us in 
small communities and allowed them to live and 
worship in their own way. For, you see, in these 
people, made as a dim image of the first people, 
we found a reflection from which we learned 
about ourselves and in turn the wonder of our god. 

The Wasting 
Plague 

In the year 5350 the world ended. Borne on the 
magic of any spell or enchantment, the Wasting 
Plague rocketed around the world like chain light 
ning. Temples linked by magic spread the plague to 
every comer of Jakandor. Magical communications 
sent to warn travelers served only to propel the 
plague farther and wider. Healing spells and pro 
tective magic only fueled the disease. The plazas 
and streets were piled with bodies. Machines col 
lapsed to the ground and fell from the sky. The 
people fled to the temples to appeal to our god, but 
were stmck down like wheat in the fields. Through 



8 • Ckaptcr Ohs 




















the vast canyons of our cities prayers echoed into 
the heavens, but passed unheard. 

To this day we do not know what brought the 
Wasting Plague, but we do know within hours our 
people were no more and the world was once 
again without guidance, left to spin into chaos 
and disorder. It is said that while Ae world came 
apart, our distant god slept. The superstitious 
among the outcasts believe that the plague was 
sent by our god in his time of anger, but they can 
not say why, for even the outcasts know that our 
ancestors were a good and pious people. 

Philosophers teach that we were abandoned 
by our god. They teach that our people were wiped 
from the earth, not for impiety, but for placing 
foolish trust in a distant god. Like a child who 
must one day be taken from its mother's breast if 
it is to grow strong, so too did our people have to 
learn to stand free of their creator. 

We know now that the gods are petty and 
tyrannical things, given to infinite vanity and an 
insatiable appetite for adoration. They cannot suf 
fer any limit to their domain or rule, and they har 
vest the dead from the material world to 
subordinate them for eternity as devotees in the 
outer planes. The gods in their vanity attempt to 
disrupt the natural cycle of death and rebirth by 
collecting the dead to their sides and enslaving 
them in an unending afterlife of servility. 

Some believe the plague came from a distant 
land of shadow people. Some believe the plague 
was the result of our people gaining magical 
power that exceeded their wisdom to husband it. 
Still others believe it was the work of the lesser 
gods, who looked upon the glory of the Charonti 
with bitterness and jealousy. It does not matter 
where the plague came from, for it let us know we 
were alone-that our god slept while his people 
perished. 

LIVING LIKE 

Shadow 

PEOPLE 

The world was cast into darkness. Not a single 
priest of the sleeping god survived the plague. All 
learning failed as the art of magic and the knowl 
edge of crafting our machines were lost. Jakandor 
was destroyed. Fear and confusion reigned, and 
for the first time our people were as the shadow 
races. Our people forgot duty. The dead wandered 
the land without priests to guide them. Like the 
beast-men, the few survivors hid in the shadows. 
Like the children of the lesser gods, we warred 
among ourselves. 


The kageloads 

For the next five thousand years no building was 
raised, and no ruler returned to lead us again to 
wisdom. In the countryside people destroyed all 
magical artifacts and slew spell-casters on sight 
in an effort to keep the plague at bay, while ambi 
tious power-seekers scoured the ruins of our 
cities and temples for the magic that would give 
them the power to rule their brothers. 

In time, wizards who stumbled upon ancient 
libraries fortified small warrens within the ruins 
and built strongholds to secure their power. The 
frightened and helpless flocked to the fortresses of 
these magelords, who offered them protection in 
exchange for their servitude. The magelords bat 
tled across the ruins for generations, but none 
could master the others. Like the cycles that rule 
all things, the now forgotten magelords rose and 
fell in an unending series of nameless wars. When 
a magelord grew strong, his ambition for power 
would always lure him deeper into the ruins to 
find still greater power. It is deep within the ruins 
that the plague still waits, sleeping like a god, to be 
wakened by those who seek the elder power. This 
is why our people remained so few in number dur 
ing all those centuries, for the Wasting Plague re 
turned to those who forgot the lessons of the past. 

The Royal 
House lives on 

when the Wasting Plague descended upon our 
people, among the first struck down were the 
members of the royal family, who dwelt in a house 
rich in enchantment. Only the Crown princess 
Nefti survived, for she was not in the royal house, 
but at Lake Raadihn with her teacher Anmen. She 
had laid down her magical amulets and rings so 
that she could swim in the clear water while 
Anmen, likewise devoid of any magical garments 
or accouterments, waited on the shore. 

Suddenly Anmen's thoughts were interrupted 
by a message transmitted magically. History does 
not record exactly what he heard, but we know 
that terror and panic were the emotions of the 
sender. Anmen was momentarily weakened, but 
regained control of himself and bade the princess 
to come with him back to the city immediately. 

They were aghast at what they found. Much of 
the capital, including the palace, was ablaze. The 
streets and buildings were littered with bodies. 
There were no survivors to be found. Anmen knew 
that his people would surely perish. In desperation 
he led the young princess to the Open Plaza and 
called out to the dead who lay there in profusion. 

"Do not abandon us," he called. "Without your 


HISTORY • 9 


help we are surely lost." Slowly, the bodies of our 
stricken people began to rise. One by one they gath 
ered before the palace, in order to preserve ^e na 
tion. That is when we first learned that any man of 
wisdom and learning can wake his ancestors; that it 
is not a gift of the god reserved only for his priests. 

With the assistance of the risen Charonath, 
Anmen cleared a small portion of the city and 
made it safe for people who remained loyal to the 
Crown. While all around them chaos reigned, the 
small enclave grew and began to thrive. Outside the 
safety of Anmen's quarter, palaces were plundered 
and gangs of brigands ruled the empty canyons 
that were once Sie beautiful cities of Jakandor. 
Apocalyptic cults sprang up, and survivors hid in 
the shadows. Eventually, the magelords began to 
appear and war raged across the island. 

As Nefti grew in wisdom, she looked with sor 
row upon the world and reflected upon her duty. 

"It is clear to me now," she decreed, "that if we 
are to survive we can no longer wait for our god to 
wake. Nor can we turn to the promises of the lesser 
gods and their cultists. The power of the gods ex 
ceeds their compassion. We must stand on our 
own feet and find our own way in the wilderness." 

It was then that Princess Nefti, the only survivor 
of the royal family and a symbol of hope to many, 
earned herself the name "Nefti the Apostate." She 
threw down the yoke of subordination and took up 
the mantle of responsibility, compassion, and justice. 

The crown princess carved out a safe haven in 
the ruins of Alchatay and collected around her 
thinkers and philosophers who loved truth. This 
enclave survived for all of the five thousand years. 
It survived the ravages of time and the attacks of 
jealous magelords who heard rumors that the 
royal line still lived and sought to wipe it out. But 
through the years the heirs of Nefti never sought 
to reclaim the land by force. They were taught that 
when the cycle of killing was ended, the house of 
Hramnethes would again bring peace to its people. 

REBIRTH OF 
THE HATXON 

After thousands of years of chaos, Jakandor was a 
desolate and empty place with pockets of popula 
tion hiding in fortresses built among the ruined 
cities. Vast fields and farmlands were abandoned 
and reclaimed by the wild. Magelords conducted 
their wars against one another with stealth and 
cunning, using magical gates and animated Char 
onath to execute their plans. 

Finally, one hundred and fifty years ago, hope 
returned to our people in an unlikely form. It came 
in the form of the beast-like race of shadow people 
called the Knorr who invaded our island and 
threatened to destroy the little that remained of 


our once great nation. The Knorr were few in num 
ber at first, but their appetite for destruction was 
boundless. They scoured the ruins, destroying an 
cient records and plundering artifacts to use as 
trinkets to decorate their spears and as trophies for 
their lodges. When not competing to destroy every 
remnant of our lost learning, the Knorr engaged in 
bloody warfare among themselves. The Knorr are 
an illiterate race with no love of learning or wis 
dom. They have no sense of duty to preserve the 
past, and they destroy the Charonath upon sight, 
as if to mock the wisdom which the dead preserve. 

The magelords took little notice of the beast- 
men until several of them fell before onslaughts of 
the howling savages during the years following 
the invasion. Nefti the Peacemaker, the heir to the 
line of Hramnethes and leader of a small enclave 
of philosophers, sent a message out to the remain 
ing magelords. She called them to attend a Con 
gregation in the Open Plaza at Alchatay to discuss 
the invasion of Jakandor by the Knorr. Most of the 
magelords who knew of Nefti considered her a 
weak, but harmless, pretender. Some of them 
would not have bothered to attend the Congrega 
tion, but they dared not stay away lest an enemy 
find a way to turn the meeting to his advantage. A 
few did stay away, suspecting treachery; some 
came hoping to perpetrate the same. It was thirty 
days before the group had finally assembled. 

Nefti appeared, greeted the magelords by name, 
and extolled the magical accomplishments of each 
one, but refused to mention their military victories. 
She led the party to the palace to see where she had 
assembled the Hall of Skulls. She explained that 
she felt the wisdom of our ancestors might help the 
assembly come to terms, for it was time for peace. 
If the Charonti could not unify now, they would for 
ever lose their heritage to the savage Knorr, who 
were plundering the tombs of our ancestors. If the 
Charonti could not unify, they should look to the 
Knorr as their heirs and see in those savage people 
their own future. It was time for the cycle of death 
and rebirth to turn once again. 

In her wisdom Nefti suggested that the mage 
lords confer among themselves, look to the future 
and then to the past. The wizards argued, each 
seeking a chance to hold sway over the rest. 

Many saw the wisdom of her words, but at the 
same time they were full of ambition and pride. 
"It is true what you speak, Nefti. We must indeed 
unite if we are to regain our heritage. But-who 
shall rule?" asked the diviner Nefeseramose. 

"We seem to find only chaos in our own time," 
said Nefti at last. "You are a diviner, Nefeseramose. 
Look to the future and tell us what you see." 

The mage consulted the glass skull he carried 
and that still rests in the Council Chamber. "The 
future tells me Hramnethes will rule. But he is 
long dead." He smiled and the room burst into 
angry objections. 


lO • CKAPTIIt OMI 



Finally, Nefti stood before the skulls of the an 
cestors. She called upon Shanatharon, who was 
the most powerful of the necromancers in that 
time. "Ask them, Shanatharon, so that all may 
hear. Who shall rule our nation?" 

A shrill wailing filled the chamber as the necro 
mancer summoned the shades from the skulls of 
the ancestors, and cold winds tore at the clothes of 
the magelords. Above the noise they heard a dron 
ing chorus of voices that said in unison, "Hram- 
nethes is king." The room then fell silent. 

Nefti stood. "I am of the line of Hramnethes," 
she said firmly. "The meaning is clear. I claim the 
throne." The magelords were silent. 

Then anger filled her and she shouted, "I am 
your queen! Return to your fortresses and tear 
them to the ground. Return to this city in a month's 
time. You will all lead us forward as we reclaim our 
past and build anew. Tell the skulkers in darkness 
that they may come in from the shadows, and all 
will have my protection. Those who oppose me will 
find no safe harbor, for the time of darkness and 
chaos is ended, and the light of reason, justice, and 
compassion dawns anew. Do not resist what you 
know to be our destiny-you have heard the voices 
of our ancestors and the promise of the future." 

HOW Hsm 

Drove Back 
THE Plaove 

The warring magelords agreed to restore the an 
cient line of Hramnethes to the throne. They agreed 
to peace, so that they might jointly turn their atten 
tion to the beast-men. Some agreed cynically, 
thinking that at least a small nation could be built 
for which the question of rule could be revisited in 
the future. Many realized that Nefti was correct in 
proclaiming that the ^cle had turned again-it was 
time for the Charonti to restore the nation and re 
turn reason and compassion to the world. 

When word spread that the magelords at the 
Con^egation had endorsed unification under 
Nefti, some who had avoided the meeting came to 
join in building the new nation. Others, blinded by 
their ambition, disavowed the alliance and re 
treated from the capital to plot. To this day, their 
descendants are hidden in the Outlands, waiting 
for a day when they believe they will rule again. 

Nefti chose some magelords as counselors. 
The rest she charged to put aside their past rival 
ries and to work together to recover the lost 
knowledge of their ancestors before the Knorr de 
stroyed it completely. She established the Colleges 
of Wizardry so that the mages might have the re 
sources to study the lost arts and to teach them to 
the young. She selected a corps of officers called 


"guardians" to command the Charonath as the 
new nation reclaimed the elder cities.Then she es 
tablished a Court of philosophers dedicated to cre 
ating a society ruled with justice and compassion. 

When she had arrayed the new nation before 
her and was pleased, the magelords who now led 
the colleges approached her with concern. The 
Wasting Plague was believed to persist in the deep 
ruins, and they feared that the mission to recover 
the lost heritage of the Charonti might be the 
cause of the nation's final destruction. 

Nefti reflected upon the concerns of the wiz 
ards and agreed. She had, however, a gift to give 
the new nation, a gift she said was bom of wisdom 
and available to all who truly loved justice. She ex 
plained to the mages that the Wasting Plague was 
like ignorance. It hid in the darkness and hated 
the light of knowledge. This is why it hides deep in 
the ruins, because it can not exist in sunlight. 

"Behold," she said, "for those who truly love jus 
tice will radiate that love like the sun itself" As she 
spoke the word "justice," a dazzling light burst from 
a pendant around her neck, causing the wizards to 
cover their eyes. "This is the pure light of justice and 
wisdom. \Afith it you may free the knowledge that 
still lies buried and hidden from daylight." 

That is how Nefti turned back the plague. 
Though it still lurks in the ruins, our people can 
carry light into the dark to protect themselves. 

Since the 

CONCRECATION 

since the time of Nefti the Peacemaker, the gates 
between the cities have been reopened for the 
first time in centuries, and quarters have been 
made safe for the queen's people. Great buildings 
have been restored and ancient scrolls have been 
brought out of hiding to rebuild the great library 
of the Dodecon. All the beauties and wonders you 
see in the Civil Centers have been achieved since 
our people reawakened to their humanity and 
quit behaving like gods. 

OVR DUTY 

Study these stones well, little brother. Commit them to 
memory, so that you may better serve the Crown. Per 
haps you will recover lost magic of our ancestors, or seal 
the plague beneath the ground forever, or discover its 
cause and cure. Perhaps you will subdue the beast-men 
or train them to behave like humans. Whatever role you 
are destined for, you will work to make the world safe 
again and fill it with the beauty, wisdom, and knowledge 
that is your heritage. One day again we will reach be 
yond these shores and carry peace and light to the dark 
ened world, for that is what it means to be Charonti. 


KISTORY • 11 








Chapter TWo 


an overview of Charonti ^ 

culture and introduces 
fundamental traditions of ,'/0 

Charonti life that will be explained 
in later chapters. The challenges 
facing this wisdom-loving nation are 
explored, as well as the resources 
they may draw upon to overcome these 
obstacles, including their devotion to jus 
tice, the Colleges of Wizardry, and the un 
dead Charonath. 


The Charonti 

WORLD 


in remote | 

pockets around '^ 4 ilnT ffijlMllI 

ancient temples. ^|| nU 

One hundred ' ill ll nillli 

and fifty years ago the ^ 

Knorr, a savage race of barbarians, 
invaded the eastern shores of Jakan- 
dor. Soon thereafter, they began to plunder the 
elder cities, overwhelming Charonti wizards 
they encountered with sheer savagery and 
numbers. The Charonti found themselves in 
danger of finally disappearing from the annals 
of history forever. 

It is against this backdrop that the Charonti 
people are now struggling to reclaim their her 
itage and rebuild the nation that once brought 
peace and learning to a dark world. Reunited, 
for the most part, under a royal line dedicated to 
reason, justice, and compassion, the Charonti are 
fighting for their very survival. 

The tasks before them are monumental, and 
their success is threatened at every turn by ene 
mies both within and without. If they cannot 


The Charonti live in the shadow of a once great 
civilization. They are the heirs of a lost empire 
that once spanned the world. This empire was 
built upon high magic and complex technology. 
But that age of glory has lain in ruins for thou 
sands of years. Five millennia have passed since 
this once dazzling culture was decimated in a 
matter of hours by an apocalyptic plague. The 
spell-casters and priests were all but wiped out, 
and most of their knowledge was lost with them. 
Across Jakandor where millions of people once 
lived, only a handful survived. 

For the next fifty centuries the survivors of 
this once pacifistic people warred among them 
selves. Brief periods of stability were ruined by 
fresh conflicts and new outbreaks of the plague. 
During this time struggling wizards were able to 
hoard small caches of knowledge that they scav 
enged from the ruins. 

The ancient religion of the Charonti was lost 
as well, although a few believers passed on frag- 
















UO^vcbC) 


WEir ¦ 

7] tame their inter- 

f j nal conflicts, they risk 

J falling prey ultimately to 

H the bloody tooth and claw of 

the howling Knorr. 

The Jwst Society 

The Charonti Crown is fully dedi 
cated-in fact, magically bound-to the 
creation of a just society. The Charonti know that 
as they rebuild their nation, they will assume a 
mantle of ^eat power. They will again resume 
their position as caretakers of the world. They 
know that the inheritors of such power must be 
both good and wise to husband it properly. As the 
Charonti advance in their learning and magic, 
they dutifully apply this power to secure for 
themselves a just nation. 

The Charonti ideal of the just society de 
scends from the thinking of Nefti the Apostate, 
the crown princess at the time of the Wasting 
Plague. She believed that the rulers of a society 
must be the most good and wise people a society 
can muster. They should be dedicated to the truth 
and to service to the community. In a just society, 
each person is able to do the one thing for which 
he is best suited. This yields the greatest happi 
ness for the people and the greatest benefit to the 
society itself. 


The Caste 
System 


The Charonti believe that a person is best suited 
to one calling in life and should pursue that call 
ing without distraction. For this reason, they see a 
society based on castes as entirely natural and 
good. The Charonti castes are hereditary; how 
ever, some movement between them is allowed, 
so that people may assume the station in life to 
which they are best suited. Most children born 
into a guildsman's family are trained to work in 
the guild, marry someone from another family in 
the same guild, and die at the end of a life of guild 
service. But some people who display an unusual 
aptitude that lies outside the tradition of their lin 
eage may be welcomed into a different guild or 
even join the ranks of the scholars who serve the 
Crown as teachers or government officials. A lack 
of purpose in life is seen as irresponsible and dis 
respectful of the nation's need for dedication at 
all levels of society. 

There are, for practical purposes, three castes 
in Charonti society: the scholars, the guildsmen, 
and the outcasts. In this section we will look at 
each of these, but we will begin by first examining 
what could be considered the fourth and highest 
caste-the royal family. 


These simple 
principles serve 
as the foundation of 
Charonti philosophy. Dedi 
cation to the just society fills 
the role in many people's lives 
that devotion to the sleeping god had 
in the time before the plague. TYaditional 
Charonti ideals taught by that lost religion 
have persisted and have become a part of the 
Charonti notion of justice. These ideals in 
clude: dedication to one's place in society; the 
practice of formal etiquette that reflects ances 
tral piety and a respect for the wisdom of one's 
elders; and the animation of the dead as a means 
of preserving hereditary wisdom and learning, as 
well as freeing the living from manual labor. /3l of 
these traditions contribute to the Charonti idea of 
what is fitting and proper. The Charonti notion of 
the just society is a mixture of elder traditions 
and recent philosophy. 


SOCIITY • 13 









BINDINO THE OVEEM 

The Charonti are ruled by a lineage whose blood 
line reaches back to the emperor at the time be 
fore the plague. It is, however, misleading to think 
of the throne as a strictly hereditary seat of 
power. In fact, children of remarkable wisdom and 
intelligence are freely adopted into the royal fam 
ily, to serve as siblings to young royals as well as 
potential candidates for the throne. 

The children of the royal family are raised by 
philosophers who seek to instill the values of 
Charonti justice at an early age. They are con 
stantly tested to strengthen their compassion and 
reason. They are never magically compelled, but 
their behavior is carefully studied. Each child de 
velops a sense of duty that precludes competition 
for the throne. All of them know that it is in the 
best interest of the society for the child who is 
best suited to rule to ascend to the throne, and 
that neither they nor the Charonti people will 
prosper if someone inappropriate assumes ruler- 
ship. Those children of the royal family who do 
not take the throne generally remain in the 
scholar caste, often serving as philosophers and 
friends in the Court of the queen. 

The Charonti enjoy life under the rule of a 
queen dedicated to justice. While the strength of 
the queen's character is unquestioned, the ruler 


makes a powerful covenant with the nation by 
magically subordinating her will to the welfare of 
the people. At the coronation of the queen, the 
new ruler is publicly gcased as part of a lengthy 
ritual in which she is charged with the respon 
sible custodianship of the nation. In this act the 
queen embodies the very ideal of public duty to 
which she exhorts the community. Historically, 
this ritual served to ease the suspicions of the 
magelords at the end of the wars when Nefti 
sought to unify them under her common rule. 
Today it still serves to build a sense of loyalty and 
trust in the Crown among the citizens. 

The coronation of a new ruler occurs one day 
after the death of his or her predecessor. The 
Charonti tradition does not prohibit the crowning 
of a male ruler; however, in the years since the 
Congregation all the heads of state have been fe 
males. 

Scholars 

All members of the scholar caste are servants of 
the Crown, whether in an administrative, acade 
mic, or military capacity. After the royal family it 
self, the scholar caste has the greatest degree of 
influence on the reconstruction of the nation. 
Scholars comprise the Court and Council of the 
queen, and the philosophers. Jurists, officers, and 



14 • CKJkPTiR Two 







































scribes who hold all positions of authority within 
the government. The caste also includes the stu 
dents and instructors of the Addakainen, a 
sprawling assembly of institutions dedicated to 
research and learning. 

The scholars' daily lives are occupied by tasks 
related to reconstructing the lost Charonti nation. 
The philosophers devote themselves to the culti 
vation of wisdom and justice. The wizards are 
tasked with recovering lost magic and developing 
new spells. The government officials and scribes 
supervise the daily operations of the reconstruc 
tion. The guardians, warrior officers who com 
mand undead legions, help expand the territory 
that is safely in the control of the Crown. It is the 
scholars who lead the missions into the ruins of 
the elder empire and who must interpret the 
meaning of the things they recover. 

Although the scholars are the most presti 
gious and influential caste, most of these have no 
real civil power except to serve the interests of the 
community. The scholars also hold little eco 
nomic power; they live in simple dormitory-style 
barracks and may not amass material wealth. 
They have little, if any, private life, since the gov 
ernment barracks do not accommodate tradi 
tional family living. What little material comfort 
the scholars do enjoy is provided to them through 
the tax revenue of the Crown and the income of 
the colleges of the Addakainen. The queen be 
lieves, that those who hold the role of conserva 
tors of the nation must not be tempted by luxury, 
or the trappings of power and comfort. 

GVILDSKSM 

The guildsman caste is composed of artisans, 
merchants, and farmers. This caste takes its name 
from the plethora of trade guilds. But many 
people in this caste are not members of guilds at 
all; rather, they work for family businesses that 
have been carried on for generations. Guildsmen, 
whether they work in a family enterprise or a 
guild, reflect the belief that a society is most just 
when all its members devote themselves to the 
work to which they are best suited without con 
flicting with the rest of the society. 

Guildsmen enjoy a rich family life. Their fam 
ilies often include grandparents, aunts, and un 
cles as well as the immediate family. They lead 
comfortable lives and may acquire material 
wealth freely, restrained only by the social custom 
that it is disrespectful to live better than the other 
members of one's family. Consequently, all mem 
bers of the family tend to share the benefits of 
each other's successes. 

Although Charonti fashions tends to reflect 
the simple and austere lifestyle of the scholar 
caste, guildsmen can and do possess goods and 


clothing of fine quality. Because the population of 
Charonti is small in comparison to the city space 
available, the guildsmen all live in spacious ac 
commodations. 

Magic is an integral part of daily life among 
the Charonti, and the artisans of the guildsman 
caste devote themselves to the design and manu 
facture of goods both magical and mundane. 
Guilds involved in manufacturing will typically 
take on young wizards as apprentices to pass on 
the secrets of their trade. Many of the artisan 
guilds have been controlled for generations by the 
members of a few families who helped make 
them successful. 

Merchants manage business throughout the 
four Civil Centers (the partially reconstructed 
Charonti cities). As with the artisans, many of the 
merchant guilds are d 3 mastic in nature; their vast 
wealth is a major influence in public policy. 

Farmers are the least enfranchised caste 
members. They are the only Charonti who live in 
any numbers outside the four cities. They do not 
form guilds but tend to build small family home 
steads near the safety of the huge farms that the 
Crown operates along the three major rivers on 
the western side of the island. Because of their 
self-sufficiency, their proximity to the Outlands- 
the untamed and unrestored remote areas that 
are not governed by the queen-and their ten 
dency to devote themselves to manual labor, 
farmers are somewhat disdained by city dwellers. 

Most guildsmen never pass beyond the secure 
walls of the Civil Centers; however, this is not to 
surest that their lives are uneventful. The com 
petition between guilds can be fierce and can tax 
the imagination of the most cunning strategist. 
Formal vendettas dedicated to ruining competi 
tors are an honored guild tradition. 

Some guilds sponsor ventures into the Out 
lands. A number of them do so to legitimately ac 
quire resources for their work, while others 
bolster their trade illicitly through commerce 
with the outcasts who live there. Still others seek 
new advantages for their enterprises by attempt 
ing to recover ancient artifacts or magic from the 
ruins. 

Outcasts 

The outcasts are the squalid Charonti who sur 
vive beyond the walls of the settled quarters and 
the influence of the Crown. This territory is 
known among the civil Charonti as the Outlands. 

When Nefti the Peacemaker first began to re 
build the Charonti nation, she sent out a call to all 
comers of the island offering protection to all that 
would join in the restoration. Not everyone heard, 
and of those who did, not everyone responded. 
The descendants of those people account for 


SOCIITY • li 


1 


most of the population of the outcasts. Most of 
these live in small, widely scattered autonomous 
communities and encampments that struggle for 
existence in the abandoned ruins and wilderness. 
The outcasts include rogue wizards who are de 
scended from the resisting magelords, brigands, 
radical individualists, religious zealots dedicated 
to obscure deities, and other people who are sim 
ply antisocial or insane. 

The Crown will accept refugees into the Civil 
Centers if they are willing to swear fealty to the 
nation and if they can perform some useful ser 
vice. The queen forbids trade with the outcasts, 
because that could strengthen the enemies of the 
nation. However, the general policy of the Crown 
toward outcast enclaves is neutral-except for 
those that somehow threaten the security or in 
terests of the nation. In these cases the queen has 
been compelled to send armed forces against 
rogue wizards and priests, self-styled feudal lords, 
and free-willed undead. Some outcast enclaves 
are said to date back to the plague. 

Social mobility 

While the Charonti castes are generally heredi 
tary, people can move freely from one caste to an 
other based upon their aptitudes and abilities. 
The Addakainen, which any Charonti child may 
enter, serves as a means of drawing members of 
the guildsmen into the scholar caste. Scholars 
may apply for membership in a guild, and if ac 
cepted they lose the rights and responsibilities of 
their former caste. Outcasts may join the civil 
Charonti (as described above) and move into the 
position in society to which they are best suited. 
Jurists, who are agents of the Crown's justice, can 
use magical divination to help determine what 
vocation a person should pursue. Jurists also have 
the authority to assign a person to one function 
instead of another, and in doing so from one caste 
to another when appropriate. 

The vndead 

For thousands of years, respect for ancestors and 
the animation of the dead have been an integral 
part of Charonti life. Originally tied to the ancient 
worship of Thanhotep, these practices continue 
as honored traditions, even though worship of the 
deity has been abandoned. The animation of de 
ceased Charonti provides laborers which allows 
the undertaking of projects well beyond the capa 
bility of the living population, and provides a 
fighting force to help the defend the nation. Com 
munication with the dead is also a means of pre 
serving knowledge that might otherwise be lost 
from one generation to the next. The undead, or 


Charonath, greatly outnumber the living in this 
society. 

Charonath perform virtually all manual labor, 
which frees the living to devote themselves to in 
tellectual tasks. These can serve as soldiers, so 
that the living need not expose themselves to un 
necessary risks, nor take part in the unseemly 
bloodshed and violence of combat. They are also 
used to escort expeditions of scholars into the far 
reaches of the island and offer protection from 
the dangers of the wild. Spirits of the wisest 
Charonti are often summoned for consultation by 
students, researchers, and members of govern 
ment, including the queen. 

Charonti venerate their ancestors, but their 
view of the undead is based on reason rather than 
mysticism. They view undeath as a dutiful way for 
a citizen to continue serving the community after 
his life has ended. Charonti do not fear or loathe 
the Charonath. 

Civil Cehters 

The Charonti who are subjects of the queen live 
in small portions of four ancient cities that have 
been cleared, restored, and made safe for settle 
ment. These settled quarters, known as the Civil 
Centers, are separated by sealed buildings and 
blockaded thoroughfares from the unrestored 
parts of the ruins, which are abandoned to the 
outcasts. Anything beyond the safety of the Civil 
Centers is regarded as Outlands, whether it is the 
windswept plazas and decrepit buildings of the 
ruins that surround them, or the wild plains and 
forests across Jakandor. Each of these four ruined 
cities was originally built thousands of years ago 
for a population hundreds of times larger than 
those who dwell in them now. 

The Civil Centers are linked to each other via 
magical teleportation gates that permit the 
queen's subjects to live in what amounts to a sin 
gle virtual city. Any citizen may freely move from 
one city to another as desired as if using a teleport 
without error spell. Each magical gate is supervised 
by a guardian and a squad of Charonath under or 
ders to apprehend anyone who is acting suspi 
ciously (for instance, behaving like a person who 
is chasing someone or being chased), but surveil 
lance is generally quite loose. Each magical gate 
or portal allows simultaneous two-way travel and, 
at because they are 40 feet wide, these gates can 
accommodate several people at once. 

Most citizens spend their entire lives in the 
clean, wide-open spaces of the Civil Centers. They 
live in spacious buildings and do their shopping 
along wide avenues that were built thousands of 
years ago for a more crowded time. Occasionally, 
the Crown will annex a few more acres of the un- 


16 • Ckaptsr two 




settled quarters and restore that area to accom 
modate the gradually growing population. There 
is no need for roads outside the Civil Centers, al 
though ruined elder roads still cross the island, 
and outcasts maintain regular trails in some areas 
of the Outlands. The first task of a Crown expedi 
tion, when it travels to a new ruin, is to secure the 
area and erect a teleportation gate, known as a 
"home gate" linked to a Civil Center, which makes 
further exploration of the site easier. 

Three of the four Civil Centers also have phys 
ical, non-magical gates to provide access to file 
Outlands. Oufiand gates are used by Crown expe 
ditions to venture into the wilderness, as well as 
by guildsmen who want to seek their fortune in 
places beyond the protection of the queen. Each 
Oufiand gate is attended to by a scribe, a jurist, a 
guardian, and Charonath to monitor the traffic 
and to prevent invasions and the gate from being 
opened illegally. 

Beyond the Civil Centers, the only other "set 
tled" territory in the minds of the queen's subjects 
is the Crown farmland. This territory includes 
long stretches of fertile land that are irrigated and 
cultivated along the river valleys of western 
Jakandor. The land is worked predominantly by 
the Charonath of the Crown, although some citi 
zens make their homes here on small private 
farms. No well-tended roads connect the farms to 


the Civil Centers, but again magical gates serve to 
make overland travel unnecessary. The farmlands 
are considered dangerous and wild places, a little 
too close to the Outlands to suit the tastes of most 
Charonti-even though huge contingents of zom 
bie field workers serve as a veritable army to pro 
tect the citizens. 

CHAHONTI HOKES 

Most Charonti residential buildings look like a 
square, two-sectioned ziggurat. The ground floor 
commonly has no windows and only a single en 
trance. The outer walls of the first level are thick 
stone, smoothed over with clay and then white 
washed to create a featureless surface that slopes 
almost imperceptibly inward as it rises. The tj^i- 
cal home has a ground wall (as it is called) height 
of about 25 feet. Public buildings will often exceed 
this height significantly, hiding several stories be 
hind the featureless ground wall. The selection of 
proportions and gentle angles of the first level of 
a building is a matter of great aesthetic tradition 
among the Charonti, who find great beauty in 
such subtlety. 

At the top of the ground wall, set back 10 to 20 
feet from the edge, rises the second section of the 
structure. This section can be any number of 
stories, but in homes is most commonly one or 


Society • 17 



















two. This secondary structure normally has an 
awning that circumscribes the building. The ledge 
atop the ground wall can be used as a deck from 
which the residentse can view the street below. 
The entire structure is built around a central 
courtyard that allows light to enter and air to cir 
culate freely along both the exterior and interior 
rooms. The upper stories are well ventilated with 
large open windows. 

The ground floor of the house is normally 
used as a storage or workshop area, with the ex 
ception of the center courtyard that is almost al 
ways a garden of some sort, often with a pond or 
pool of water. Family Charonath may be assigned 
quarters within one wing of the ground floor usu 
ally near the kitchen, storerooms, and workshops. 
The section above the ground wall is where the 
members of the family live, sleep, and eat. 

In contrast to the whitewashed austerity of 
the outer walls, the insides of most homes are 
decorated with rich tapestries or mosaics. Most of 
a home's artwork and decoration relates to the 
history of the family or legends of the elder 
Charonti. 

Furniture in the home is simple and elegant. 
The Charonti favor simple cane stools and clay- 
topped tables, occasionally with sparse and taste 
ful decoration such as inlays of metal or gems. For 
storage, Charonti use woven baskets, carved 
wooden chests, and clay urns. Charonti often use 
woven grass mats as floor coverings in living 
areas, and dust the floor with sand, which is fre 
quently changed, in work areas. Meals are taken 
in the courtyard or on the upper floors. 

OOVSRHKSHT OP 

THE Crown 

The Charonti are a nation at war. They are at war 
with the chaos outside the walls of the cities, with 
the Knorr who are bent on destroying their her 
itage, and with the ravages of time. As befits a na 
tion struggling against such odds to reclaim its 
legacy, they are ruled by a monarch who has ab 
solute authority over all affairs of state. But the 
queen is not a dictator; she governs with justice in 
mind, and delegates responsibility and authority 
to others as she sees fit. 

The Charonti government is dedicated to 
restoring the former glory of the empire. To this 
end, the Crown has formed the scholar caste, 
which is entirely devoted either directly or indi 
rectly to the mission of rebuilding the nation. 
Through the scholars, the Crown conducts exca 
vations, campaigns to subdue dangerous out 
casts, and missions to rescue the lost wonders of 
the past, before such are destroyed. 


The Crown collects taxes from the guilds to 
support the research of the scholars and to fund 
the projects of restoration. Additionally, the 
Crown draws revenue and resources from the im 
perial farms that are largely manned by 
Charonath. There is often a significant excess of 
grain available that is provided to the guildsmen 
for modest prices. 

The queen appoints five groups to serve as 
the Crown's administrators and to assist in mak 
ing the Charonti dream a reality. These advisory 
bodies are the Court, the Council, the Vizier, the 
Jurists, and the High Guardian. The queen is 
under no compulsion to consult any of these bod 
ies, nor to appoint a specific number of members 
to each. The Charonti rely upon her wisdom to 
judge how best to avail herself of these resources. 
The queen almost always selects good-aligned 
advisors for these positions. In rare cases she will 
invite a neutral individual. 

The Court 

The Court is comprised of thirty philosophers. 
These scholars are responsible for raising the 
children of the royal family, as well as discussing 
issues of justice and morals with the queen. The 
Court was founded by philosophers whom the 
original Nefti gathered within her enclave at the 
time of the Congregation. The Court advises the 
queen on specific issues of justice that are 
brought before her by the Jurists. Its members are 
drawn from the College of Thought. 

The CevNcii 

The Council is a body of twelve advisors who as 
sist the queen in setting priorities and making de 
cisions related to restoration. The Council makes 
suggestions regarding ruins to be explored and 
magical research to be sponsored. These deci 
sions directly affect the amount of funding that 
the different colleges of the Addakainen receive 
each year. The Council members have no official 
authority; but, the monarch traditionally defers to 
their consensus. 

Council positions are filled from a pool of the 
most accomplished scholars who hold high posi 
tions within the colleges of the Addakainen and 
who have passed rigorous examinations. Even 
among councilors of good alignment, different 
notions persist of what is in the public interest; 
those differing opinions, as well as the rivalries of 
wizards from different colleges, result in a con 
stant current of politicking within the palace 
halls. 

The queen, in her wisdom, stands above this 
maneuvering and dedicates herself solely to what 
she believes to be just and reasonable. She allows 


18 • Ckaptir Two 



the rivalries among the colleges to continue, be 
lieving that examination of all sides of an issue 
serves the interests of the nation. She lets debates 
continue as long as the rivals are competing to ex 
ceed one another in service to the Crown and not 
losing sight of the nation's goals. 

The Council chambers are arrayed with a rack 
of skulls that circumscribes the domed ceiling. 
These skulls are those of great wizards and schol 
ars of the past whose shades may be consulted by 
the queen. 

The Vizier 

The Vizier sits at the head of an enormous bu 
reaucracy that administers the day-to-day opera 
tions of the Crown. The Vizier is responsible for a 
veritable army of scribes who serve as diplomats, 
bureaucrats, tax collectors, accountants, and 
petty officials who keep the wheels of the nation 
running smoothly. These scribes are also involved 
in coordinating the logistics of most expeditions 
into the ruins that are sanctioned by the council. 

The Vizier is responsible for attending to the 
mundane tasks of running the empire so that the 
queen may devote herself to more esoteric mat 
ters. Thus, the Vizier is one of the few advisors 
with real authority. By necessity, the queen dele 
gates all administration to the Vizier, although 


she may at any time overrule any decision, or for 
that matter dismiss the Vizier. The Vizier is se 
lected from among the highest-ranking scribes 
within the government bureaucracy. Scribes, like 
all scholars, receive an extensive education in the 
Addakainen before entering public service. 

Tk£ Jurists 

The Jurists are a specialized order of neutral-good 
philosophers dedicated to the administration of 
the queen's justice. Invested with the authority of 
judge and jury, the Jurists have wide-ranging 
powers to arbitrate disputes, assign property, 
punish criminals, and even arrange marriages. 

The justice process is almost entirely informal 
and is administered by these individuals. The 
most severe punishment they may use is to geos a 
malefactor to serve the public interest. This aids 
the community and avoids the expense and loss 
of resources that would come from imprisoning 
citizens. 

Jurists are educated in the College of Thought 
and culled from aspiring philosophers. Like the 
queen, every Jurist is under the influence of a geos 
spell that guarantees he or she will always make 
rulings that are in accordance with a just society. 
Jurists are ranked in a hierarchy that extends 
down into the communities of the guildsmen and 



SOCIITY • 19 



up into the high offices of the Crown. Four high- 
ranking Jurists at the top of this organization re 
port directly to the queen who is, herself, the High 
Jurist. Once a month the queen assumes her role 
as Jurist and hears disputes in the Open Plaza. For 
more information on Jurists and how they oper 
ate, see Chapter Four. 

The KlOH CUAHDIAM 

The wise and pacifistic Charonti have no warrior 
tradition, but they train a class of officers-the 
guardians-who study complex strategy and tac 
tics of commanding the undead for a variety of 
purposes. This officer corps is responsible for the 
undead troops who carve out new territory within 
the cities for settlers, conduct campaigns against 
dangerous outcasts, monsters, and invaders, es 
cort expeditions of scholars into the ruins, and 
protect the cities from their enemies. They also 
command the undead in undertaking civic pro 
jects requiring manual labor. The large fields of 
the Crown farms are tended by undead under the 
command of guardians. Remote mining opera 
tions of the Crown's in several locations are 
worked entirely by Charonath, whom guardians 
check on using magical gates. Guardians are 
members of the scholar caste since they are offi 
cials of the Crown, and because their life's work is 
dedicated to the service of the Charonti nation. 

The High Guardian is simply the highest- 
ranking officer of the corps of guardians. The of 
fice has authority over the hierarchy of 
lower-ranking officers. The High Guardian is ap 
pointed by the queen and is ultimately respon 
sible for supervising junior officers. All guardians, 
including the High Guardian, command squads of 
Charonath. No guardian holds an entirely admin 
istrative role. 

Magic ahd 
Technology 

Magic pervades all aspects of Charonti life. While 
high magic and technology of the ancient civiliza 
tion has been lost and only recovered in frag 
ments, the Charonti, all rely upon the items and 
enchantments of spell-casters as a part of every 
day life. 

However prevalent it may appear in present- 
day society, Charonti magic is a mere shadow of 
the knowledge amassed by their ancestors. Most 
spells of even medium level exist only in stories of 
the past. High-level magic does exist, but in hid 
den libraries. Some of the recovered technology of 
the elder civilization can be used, but it still is not 
entirely understood. It is the dream of all Charonti 


wizards to discover the spell that supposedly al 
lowed a ball of flame to roll forth from the caster's 
hands, or the one that would grant the caster his 
dearest wish. 

In spite of the gaps in their magical knowl 
edge, wizardry is considered one of the highest 
callings among the Charonti, second only to pure 
philosophy. The ability to cast wizard magic is an 
indication of intelligence and that an individual 
understands things beyond the veil of appear 
ances. The Charonti believe that magical energy 
comes from the nethtay, or "life center," which is 
within a person's bones, and that the ability to 
tame this force reflects a high degree of educa 
tion, personal discipline, and self-awareness. 

There are many paths open to a wizard in 
Charonti society. The most ambitious wizards 
work in the colleges under the sponsorship of the 
Crown, conducting research and scouring the 
ruins in an effort to recover the past. Many more, 
however, are employed by the guilds making 
household magical items and pursuing practical 
applications of spell casting for the public inter 
est. The Charonti economy is facilitated by magic 
of all sorts. Settled regions of each city are con 
nected via magical portals. Levitating barges are 
used for land and river travel. The Charonti are 
very familiar with the use of magical items. Any 
educated person can read magic, and many can 
make use of simple scrolls. 

The addakaimem 

The single greatest asset of the Charonti nation in 
their struggle for survival is the Addakainen 
("pool of magic and knowledge"), a loose assem 
bly of schools sponsored by the Crown and dedi 
cated to the study of magic, philosophy, and the 
efforts of reconstruction. At the time of the Con 
gregation, Nefti the Peacemaker called upon the 
warring magelords to establish these schools. She 
showed the way by founding the School of the Just 
Society, dedicated to moral philosophy. The mage 
lords complied, and an institution devoted to each 
of the schools of magic was founded. The mage 
lords believed that through the schools there was 
a way to retain some independence and influence 
that they were risking losing by joining the 
queen's nation. 

The Addakainen offers an education to all 
Charonti, and in doing so helps to direct people 
into the vocations for which they are best suited. 
It is also the primary means of social mobility 
within Charonti society. Children of guildsmen at 
tend to learn the fundamentals of reading, writ 
ing, and numerical operations as well as reading 
magic. Students of exceptional ability are often re 
tained in the school and directed to a life among 
the scholar caste. Likewise, a young scholar who 


SO • Chapter Two 




shows an aptitude and interest in a particular 
craft rather than in his more esoteric studies will 
be gently directed from a school into a guild ap 
prenticeship. 

The buildings of the Addakainen are scattered 
across the four Civil Centers. All who attend the 
institution are provided with a modest cell and 
food. The queen grants funds to the various col 
leges in accordance with national priorities. 

Paths os 
Sducatioh 

The largest of the schools is the School of the Just 
Society. It provides the educational foundation for 
all of the students who later continue into one of 
the schools of wizardry or even into the advanced 
study of philosophy. The School of the Just Society 
consists of three distinct programs, beginning 
with the Children's School in which many 
Charonti are taught to read magical and mundane 
texts. It continues with the Open School, in which 
students are prepared for advanced study in one 
of the Colleges of Wizardry. It culminates in the 
College of Thought, in which advanced philoso 
phy and clerical spell casting are taught. 


Children's School 

within the School of the Just Society, children of 
the scholar caste are quartered and cared for by 
young philosophers. Most scholars live in the 
compound of their college or the barracks of the 
Crown in modest cells that do not accommodate 
a family. Thus, even while children are growing 
up, they may see their parents infrequently. In 
early childhood the young scholars are taught 
simple moral principles, a proper sense of duty, 
and ancestral piety. Songs and stories are memo 
rized. which helps children be proficient at spell 
memorization when they become adults. 

Guildsmen are welcome to send their children 
to the school at any age, but most wait until the 
child is about ten years old. Guildsmen place great 
value on family life, which must be left behind 
when a child is sent to school. The disadvantage 
that guild children face as is that they don't re 
ceive as much instruction as the sons and daugh 
ters of scholars, who have been attending the 
Children's School since infancy. 

At the age of fourteen each student is admin 
istered a test by the philosophers. The test in 
volves an examination of each child's aptitudes, 
inclinations, and character. At the conclusion of 
the test, children are directed to either continue 
into Open School, to enter the School of the 


Society • fti 





























Guardians, or to apprentice with a guilds. At this 
point many young guildsmen simply return home 
to practice their family trade. 


Opzn School 


The Open School serves to discipline the thinking 
of intellectually and spiritually adept students 
and to prepare them for their ultimate path in life. 
Any students who graduate from the Open School 
are likely to spend their lives in the scholar caste 
unless they personally choose otherwise. 

In the Open School, students continue to 
memorize the classic philosophical texts and re 
fine their ability to read magic. They spend most of 
their time listening to lectures and speeches from 
the older students from the various Colleges of 
Wizardry and philosophy. No exams are con 
ducted until the end of four years, when students 
must take a series of tests that will assess their 
abilities. The results of the tests are available only 
to the members of the colleges, the Jurists, and 
particular Crown scribes. Each of these interested 
parties reviews the results and selects candidates 
to sponsor into their own institutions. The Jurists 
serve as arbiters if more than one party wants to 
recruit the same candidate. 


A candidate must be sponsored by a member 
of one of the colleges or by a Crown scribe who 
agrees to act as the student's mentor. Accepting a 
candidate as a student is a profound responsibil 
ity among the Charonti. The mentor must guide 



the apprentice's growth in 

IS 

^ ' ence to his men- 
performance 
apprentice reflects 
at least as badly upon 
' \ the mentor as upon the 
Jr apprentice; the mentor 

^ will be seen as having made a 
bad choice, which often affects 
his prospects of taking on another 
apprentice in the future. 


If a candidate is sponsored by a scribe of the 
Crown, the student's formal education ends and 
he or she immediately begins work as an appren 
tice scribe in the service of the Crown. 

School of the ovivrdiahs 

Out of every group of students who graduate from 
the Children's School, an elite few are directed 
into the School of the Guardians. This school is 
devoted to the training of the Charonti military 
officers. Students continue to study Charonti phi 
losophy, but less emphasis is placed on memo 
rization. Military strategy and physical training 
are a major part of the curriculum, as well as in 
struction in commanding the Charonath. Much of 
the program is devoted to repetitive drilling and 
frequent tests of endurance and loyalty to the 
Crown. The most successful students become 
teachers within the program. Other candidates 
who successfully complete the program serve as 
guardians to the Crown. Less successful students 
may find work handling undead within the bar 
racks of the queen, while those who exhibit noth 
ing beyond minimal aptitude may find work 
directing Charonath manual laborers among the 
guilds. 

COLIEOES OF 
WIZARDRY 

Students who advance to study within a college 
are officially considered in the service of the 
Crown. Their study of magic advances Charonti 
learning and helps to recover the lost knowledge 
of the past. 

There is one college for each school of magic, 
plus a College of Thought for studying the disci 
plines of wisdom and spiritual inquiry. The Col 
leges of Wizardry tend to focus on recovering 
ancient magic and learning about its operation 
and nature. They also pursue the advancement of 
natural sciences and technology. The queen may 
set priorities for the colleges, but rarely interferes. 
She funds the schools depending upon her per 
ception of their need, which reflects her percep 
tion of their recent contributions. 

The schools do not teach a formal curriculum. 
They use an apprenticeship program in which a 
student serves his sponsoring mentor. Some 
acolytes eventually are allowed to pursue their 
own research and expeditionary projects. Those 
who are less successful may continue as appren 
tices within the college. A few eventually leave to 
serve their family or join a guild. The greatest of 
the wizards are often invited to join the Council of 
the queen. 


• Ckapter Two 


Successful students in the College of Thought 
may be selected to care for the children of the 
scholars, or to teach in the Children's School, the 
Open School, or the college. Others are selected to 
serve as Jurists. The wisest are invited to join the 
queen's Court. 

OVILDS AHD 
SDVCAtlOH 

While most Charonti parents send their offspring 
to the Children's School, some families prefer not 
to risk losing their children to the poor financial 
prospects that life as a scholar will yield, in spite 
of the caste's prestige. These families often edu 
cate their own children until about the age of thir 
teen, whereupon they are apprenticed to a guild. 
All guilds have members who were trained in the 
colleges, but left for one reason or another. These 
are the people who teach young guildsmen the 
arcane arts of spell casting and enchantment as 
they apply to the business of the guild. The train 
ing given in a guild is focused on the product or 
service that guild offers. 

TH£ DODSCOK 

AND Spell 

REGISTRY 

In the center of Alchatay, the capital of the 
Charonti nation, lies the jewel in the crown of the 
restoration: the Great Library of the Dodecon, 
"storehouse of learning". The Dodecon is an enor 
mous collection of clay tablets, scrolls, and arti 
facts of historical or magical interest. Learned 
scholars are preserved as shaddoc-the skulls of 
those scholars that are magically invested with 
the knowledge they possessed when they were 
alive-that may be consulted for information. 
(See the section on Charonath in Chapter Five for 
details about shaddoc.) The Dodecon is the repos 
itory of all the wonders that have been collected 
from the ruins or created in the workshops of the 
Charonti people. The Charonti are determined 
that their knowledge, once recovered, will never 
be lost again. 

The Crown requires that all new magic be reg 
istered at the Dodecon. It is the privilege of the 
Crown to make use of any magic or technology 
created by a citizen. However, privately re 
searched magic may remain in the possession of 
those who create the spells. Consequently, some 
spells that have been registered are not available 
to the public, but may be reviewed by senior 



scribes 
and certain 
members of the 

colleges. Some spells are available only 
to members of a particular college of the 
Addakainen or are kept under the purview 
of the Crown. The library also contains spells 
that are available to the general public for study. 


Charonti 

RELIGION 

The Charonti were once a pious people who de 
voutly practiced a religion centered on a deity 
they called Thanhotep ("cycle of beginnings and 
ends"), a god of death and rebirth. Centuries ago 
this religion was abandoned when the priest 
caste was wiped out in the plague and many 
people rejected the worship of Thanhotep. This 
religion was replaced by a creed that taught that 
the Charonti could achieve lasting peace and 
prosperity only through the reason and compas 
sion of the people themselves without appeal to 
an external force. Since the reconstruction began, 
the Charonti mission to create a just society has 
become the spiritual center of the lives of the ed 
ucated Charonti. 

Moral philosophy is the highest priority of the 
Crown. The government maintains its dedication 
to its philosophical ideals and cultivates the free 
exchange and examination of ideas. It discour 
ages superstitious and religious attitudes. No 
temples are permitted within the Civil Centers, 
but the Crown actively suppresses religions and 
cults only when they are subversive or threaten 
the peace of the kingdom. The queen is actually 
friends with an aging priest of Thanhotep with 
whom she debates philosophical matters. 

The common belief is that devotion to powers 
that exist beyond the material world is an act of 
moral cowardice. The devotees of these other 


SOCISTY • 83 












powers need take no responsibility for their own The moral philosophy that lies at the center of 

actions, but simply subordinate their wills to that Charonti life is an amalgamation of moral princi- 

of their deity. It is regarded as emotionally mis- pies that extend from their forgotten religious 

guided to revere a remote supernatural being heritage and newer notions of what is fitting and 

above one's own ancestors, teachers, and commu- proper. To the common Charonti it is character- 

nity. And, such an attitude is viewed as potentially ized in their profound notion of duty, or the belief 

dangerous. The ^eat supernatural powers are that individuals should discipline their desires for 

known to delight in destructively meddling in the the benefit of the community. Many philosophers 

affairs of the material world. If such a power per- have written classic texts that list prescriptions 

ceives that it has many ardent worshipers, it may for right action and dutiful behavior. Most 

be tempted to intervene in the affairs of the Charonti can quote the most common axioms, 

Charonti. It is equally likely that a lack of atten- which usually revolve around obedience and de- 

tion will enrage a great power, just as an undisci- votion to one's mentor, parents, community, the 

plined child has a tantrum when its vanity is not restoration, and the queen. These prescriptions 

adequately fed. also extol the virtues of hard work and single- 

Most Charonti believe that it is best to leave minded devotion to one's work and caste, 
these supernatural powers alone. Even good and While the scholar caste generally disdains tra- 

decent powers have no business interfering in the ditional religious devotion, many scholars take an 

lives of mortals, for they cannot understand the anthropological interest in primitive religion, 

depth of compassion that can only come from a Some study the ancient records from the Charonti 

recognition of one's mortality. The Charonti na- era of exploration that document the religions of 

tion, once it is fully rebuilt, will provide a safe har- primitive people. Others study the various popu- 

bor for all humanity from the arbitrary savagery lar cults and religions that emerge on occasion 

of the great powers. In its balance of reason and among the city-dwelling Charonti and the out- 

compassion with perfect justice, it will create an casts, 

example that the stumbling gods may look upon 
in wonder and learn from. 



• Chaptcr Two 









































TKANKOTSPIC RELIOION 

Although the dominant philosophy of the 
Charonti is that espoused by the Crown, religious 
practices do persist in daily life. Devotion and re 
spect for one's ancestors is an integral part of 
Charonti life, and is reflected in their modes of 
etiquette and their practice of preserving and an 
imating the dead. While these practices may have 
found their beginning in ancient religion, they are 
now simply considered the wise conduct of duti 
ful Charonti. 

Some farmers and guildsmen continue a 
simple, almost superstitious, form ofThanhotepic 
worship, though it is more a form of ancestor wor 
ship of the "sleeping god." Charonti use this term 
to refer toThanhotep nowadays, for it is generally 
believed that the god abandoned his people in 
their time of need. Some people now interpret 
this literally, and consider it bad luck to say his 
name for fear of waking him and bringing his 
wrath down upon the Charonti. 

In the Outlands, ardent Thanhotepic cults 
persist among people who never abandoned the 
old religion. Ruined temples in the Outlands are 
regarded by the Crown as dangerous because they 
attract outcast cultists, and are believed to retain 
magic that may summon the attention of a god. 

This faith has been rebuilt largely through the 
efforts of cultists excavating ancient temples. 
These cults vary in their beliefs and practices and 
are often opposed to other groups, regarding 
these as heretics. The Crown seals ruined temples 
when they are found; but, records of their loca 
tions are incomplete. 

Occasionally a small cell of adherents to the 
old religion will develop in one of the cities. These 
people are ignored by the government as long as 
they do not threaten the domestic tranquility. It is 
rumored that the Addakainen actually allows a 
few aging priests of Thanhotep to study and prac 
tice their faith because of their unsurpassed con 
trol of the undead. 

OTHER RELICIONE 

In spite of society's predisposition against devo 
tional beliefs, small cults rise and fall in popular 
ity among the Charonti with surprising regularity. 
Their great intellectual curiosity leads many 
Charonti to dabble in the ancient faiths of primi 
tive peoples described in ancient manuscripts, 
and also makes some of them inclined to invent 
new religions. 

Small enclaves of various faiths meet at pri 
vate homes, and religious visionaries are com 
mon guests at the dinner parties of the wealthy. 
Although temples dedicated to any religion are 
not permitted by the Crown, people build shrines 


or chapels in their homes. Cults in Charonti soci 
ety rarely amass large followings, and as such do 
not usually have a hierarchy of more than a few 
priests. Many cults are composed up of the fol 
lowers of a single cleric. 

The khorr 

What finally galvanized the warring magelords to 
reunite under the Crown of the line of Hram- 
nethes and to adopt the vision of the reconstruc 
tion and the just society was an invasion by a 
bloody race of primitive savages. The Knorr 
landed on the eastern shore of Jakandor 150 years 
ago, and shortly after their arrival began to pillage 
the ruins of the elder Charonti. They do not un 
derstand the power that lies in the ruins, but sim 
ply carry away ancient treasures as trophies. They 
pay homage to a dark and primitive religion that 
embraces hundreds, if not thousands, of petty 
gods, such that each family is slave to a different 
power. At the same time, demonstrating the il- 
logic that is typical of savages, the entire race is 
beholden to a demi-urgic goddess of war, which 
they use as their justification for destruction and 
the glorification of animal appetites. These beast- 
men cultivate the art of killing above all. 

This bit of knowledge has been obtained 
through careful surveillance of some of their 
crude settlements. Oddly enough, the spoken lan 
guage of the Knorr bears some general similarity 
to the ancient Charonti tongue, enough so that 
basic ideas can be grasped. Little more is known 
about the Knorr, for one has never been captured 
alive. They have met every effort to communicate 
with an insane ferocity. They seem to delight in 
destroying all remnants of learning and the past. 
They destroy the Charonath on sight. There are 
reports of tribes of Knorr who entered ruins sim 
ply to slaughter the Charonath and destroy any 
knowledge they might find. For a reason that can 
not be discerned, if indeed any reason exists, they 
create enormous animal-headed statues that 
their bestial priests can animate and use in their 
wars among themselves. 

The intelligence of the Knorr is even less than 
that of animals, for in combat they often stand 
out in the open and bellow at their enemies, dis 
playing no higher thinking that might allow 
stealth or cunning in their attacks. However, what 
they lack in intelligence they more than make up 
for in ferocity, for they seem to value their own 
lives as little as those of their victims. The one 
blessing of their foolishness and ferocity is that 
they spend most of their time warring among 
themselves, which has given the Charonti time to 
plan a campaign against them. 

The Knorr present several distinct threats to 


Society • 85 



the Charonti. First and foremost, with each pass 
ing day the Knorr destroy or disperse more of the 
buried wisdom of the elders that remains in the 
ruins. Second, they seem to be immune to the 
plague, but able to carry it. Thus, if a party of 
Knorr were able to reach one of the Civil Centers, 
they might annihilate the last survivors of the 
Charonti race. Finally, although the Knorr are 
barely more than animals, some Charonti fear 
that they may one day learn the true nature of the 
powerful elder artifacts that they now destroy or 
use to decorate their lodges. If the Knorr were to 
stumble upon a powerful ancient temple or li 
brary, they could unleash a disaster hitherto 
unimagined. 

There is considerable controversy among 
members of the government about how best to 
deal with the beast-men. The strategy of the 
Crown in recent times has been to avoid direct 
confrontation with the Knorr and to locate and 
secure as many of the elder ruins as possible. 
Once the ruins are secured and safe, the beast- 
men can be left to run about the forests and hills 
to destroy themselves. Some Council members 
advocate a concerted campaign to wipe out the 
Knorr now, insisting that their animalistic rate of 
reproduction will only make the situation worse if 
it is left unchecked. Still others advocate domesti 


cating the Knorr and raising them up to some 
semblance of civility, perhaps using them as ser 
vants in the manner of the Charonath. This was 
the original strategy of the Crown, but was dis 
carded after repeated attempts to peacefully in 
teract with the Knorr were met with savage 
violence. 

Charonti 

Names 

All Charonti individuals have a single name. It nor 
mally begins with a syllable that is shared by 
everyone in the character's lineage, but this is not 
always the case. In the Charonti custom of naming, 
each syllable has a specific meaning. A person's 
name generally becomes longer, and occasionally a 
syllable is dropped, as that person grows older and 
adds to his list of accomplishments. As a venerable 
Charonti's name begins to become unwieldy, he 
will drop the use of many syllables except in for 
mal occasions, when the entire name is used. Ab 
breviating one's name is a sign of humility. Also, it 
is customary never to use a longer form of your 
name than the person with whom you are tallang, 
if that person is a social superior. 


fid • Ckaptir Two 
























For example, the members of a scholarly lin- his spell casting power, however, the mentor may 

eage may all use the first syllable Nem ("wizard") address the apprentice as Nematabragathiseser 

because of the status of their ancestors. An infant (iseser = young scholar), or even Nempalatabra- 

may be called Nemat (at = wind) because of its gathiseser (the honor of pal added because of the 

loud and frequent crying. As a toddler, Nemat student's powers of reason). Small connecting syl- 

may begin to be called Nematabragath (a = he, bra lables a ("he") or i ("she") may repeat several times 

= brother, gath = large) when another child is bom in a name for flui^ty. 

into the family. When, as a youth, the child read- The female children of the royal family have al- 

ies for the exam to join the Open School, he may ways taken names beginning wiA Nefti. Their true 

have the name Nematabragathileser (il = aspiring, names are probably much longer, but the queens 

eser = scholar). When the young Charonti is ac- have always been known simply as Nefti ("wise 

cepted into the College of Thought and he is in- and gentle one"). Nefti the Peacemaker's full name 

troduced to his mentor Ihnna ("without pride"), was Neftianesiha-hramnethes ("wise and gentle 

the apprentice humbly refers to himself as Nem, peace maker who is the daughter of Hramnefiies"). 

dropping the rest of his name for the occasion. At Nefti the Apostate was called Neftinathanhotep 

the time of his first advancement in the level of ("wise and gentle without Thanhotep"). 


Following is a list of the most commonly used syllables in Charonti names. 

a 


he 

ad 

- 

ocean 

adda 

= 

pool 

ahm 

= 

scribe 

al 

= 

nation 

am 

= 

tablet 

an 

= 

peace 

ar 

= 

man 

at 


wind 

ban 

= 

brave 

bra 


brother 

buc 

= 

giver 

cha 


new 

con 

= 

storehouse 

daal 

= 

child 

dode 


education 

dor 


fire 

ek 

= 

great 

eser 

= 

scholar 

en 

s 

home 

es 


maker 

fer 

= 

mother 

gath 

= 

large 

gox 

= 

father 

ha 

= 

daughter 

ho 

= 

cycle 

hram 

= 

far-seeing 

i 

= 

she 

ian 

= 

cunning 

ihn 


proud 

il 

= 

aspire 

im 

= 

dark 

is 

= 

young 

ja 

= 

discipline 

kah 

= 

just 

kai 

= 

knowledge 

kan 

= 

hammer 

khan 

= 

guildsman 

le 

= 

lineage 

lia 

= 

luminous 

men 

= 

trader 

mir 

= 

water 

mose 


old 

na 


without 

nath 


dead,death 

nef 

= 

wise 

nem 

= 

wizard 

nen 

= 

magic, magical 

neth 

= 

living, life 

nez 

= 

run 

on 

= 

son 

or 

= 

flower 

pal 

= 

reason 

pil 


outcast 

qad 


desire 

ra 


little 

ron 

= 

people 

sha 

= 

builder 

sur 


teacher 

tay 

= 

heart, center 

tep 

= 

end 

than 

= 

begin 

ti 

= 

gentle 

ton 

= 

creator 

u 

= 

sky 

uh 

= 

fat 

uk 

= 

sprawl 

um 

= 

shelter 

vu 

= 

thief 

wa 

= 

philosopher 

xer 


warrior 

zo 


stone 


SOCIITY • fiZ 







Chapter Three 


f -f ' ^ chapter brings 

I :: . ¦' to life the various 
^ types of characters 

T ' f who make up the 

I Charonti world. Rules 

fo*" generating charac- 
*.'<4^'':^ ?'^ ters are given here, as ^ 

IJ!" well as specific descrip- 

tions of the types of wizards, 
rogues, priests, and warriors who make up the 
Charonti nation. 


All Charonti are human. No evidence exists that any 
other race of human or humanlike characters ever 
set foot on Jakandor before the invasion of the Knorr. 

Every Charonti character, regardless of class, 
has the ability to turn or control undead as a Ist-level 
priest. Priests continue to improve their mastery of 
these skills as they rise in level. 

The Charonti campaign is designed for char 
acters starting at 1st level. However, it is recom 
mended that DMs allow all player characters to 
begin with the maximum allowable number of hit 
points, not including any Constitution bonus that 
might apply Thus, wizards should start with 4 hit 
points, rogues with 6, clerics with 8, and warriors 
with 10. As their characters rise in level, players 
should generate new hit points normally by 
rolling the appropriate die and adding a Constitu- 


The ancient language of the 1 
Charonti is close enough to the I 
Knorr tongue to allow simple com- 
munication if a character who is lis- 
tening makes a successful proficiency 
check. The written language of the 
Knorr is a crude and simplistic set of 
runes. Their writing can be interpreted by making 
a language proficiency check with a -4 penalty. 


tion bonus if applicable. 




LAHOVAftES 

All Charonti speak a common language, and most 
citizens also learn how to read and write the lan 
guage as part of their schooling. Many educated 
Charonti can read magic as well as mundane 
script. In addition, some people have studied the 
ancient or "high" Charonti language from which 
the present-day tongue is descended. Because all 
texts found in the ruins are written in ancient 
Charonti, expeditions almost always include at 
least one person who can read that language- 
someone who possesses the ancient Charonti 
language non-weapon proficiency. 


Characters 

In order for the campaign to function smoothly, a 
party of Charonti player characters should almost 
always be drawn from the same caste: all scholars, 
all guildsmen, or all outcasts. At the DM's discre 
tion, there may be situations when members of 
different castes will adventure with one another. 

A campaign involving scholar heroes may 
take several forms. All members of the scholar 
caste serve the Crown, either directly as govern 
ment officials or indirectly as members of the col 
leges. The caste has two simple directives: to 


88 • CKAPnR Tkrss 

















In order to faithfully capture the 
essence of Charonti society and culture, 
three sets of optional rules from the 
AD&D(r) DUNGEON MASTER* Guide and 
Player's Handbook must be used in any 
Jakandor campaign. 


bringing an higher order 
of justice to Charonti soci- 
ety. Scholars are respon- 
sible for the real work of 
carving the Charonti nation 

A campaign centered on guilds- 
man heroes can revolve around intrigue between 
competitive guilds, or adventures into the ruins to 
seek personal fortune. It may also involve illegal 
trade with outcasts or other nefarious plots. 

A campaign featuring outcast heroes is per 
haps the most challenging for players, since out 
casts have fewer advantages and resources than 
members of other castes. The basic thrust of such 
a campaign might be simply survival in the Out- 
lands, coupled with an attempt to claim some of 
the lost Charonti magic before the Crown gets to 
it. And, it stands to reason that outcasts, particu 
larly those living in the central region of the is 
land, would come into contact with the Knorr 
occasionally and perhaps frequently. 


First, the rules for "Non-Weapon Profi 
ciencies" (Chapter 5, Player's Handbook and 
Dungeon Master Guide) are essential. 
These specific skills help to individualize 
every Charonti character, and sometimes 
possessing a certain proficiency can turn 
an otherwise unremarkable character into 
an essential member of an expedition. 


Second, the rules for "TVaining to Ad 
vance in Experience Level" (as presented 
in Chapter 8 of the Dungeon master Guide) 
are an important part of the Charonti 
world. What this means is that almost all 
types of Charonti characters must be in 
structed and supervised by a mentor be 
fore they can attain a higher level of 
experience. More information on Charonti 
mentors and character advancement is 
given in Chapter Four. 


Third, the "Hovering at Death's Door" 
optional rule is not optional in this cam 
paign. A Charonti character who is re 
duced to 0 hit points is unconscious, not 
dead. If your Dungeon Master does not or 
dinarily use this rule, ask him to refer to 
Chapter 9 of the DUNGEON MASTER Guide 
and become familiar with it. 


Crcaximo Ckaractsrs • ft9 





f 


See Chapter Four for details of how parties are 
assembled for each caste, and what resources they 
have and the restrictions under which they operate. 

Character 

Kits 

This section describes the various characters that 
make up Charonti society. Every player character 
must select one of the kits listed here. Standard 
characters as described in the AD&D Player's Hand 
book and kits from other AD&D* game products 
are not found on the island of Jakandor. 

It is possible that a young Charonti will dis 
cover a new magical path or master a new philos 
ophy. The DM and players may agree to create 
new kits if they are consistent with Charonti cul 
ture and grow naturally from the other aspects of 
the campaign. 

Each character kit description follows a specific 
format, which is explained in the following text. 

General notes-Each kit begins with a brief 
statement of the character's status in society. 

Caste: Certain characters can only belong to 
one caste, while others have a choice. The allow 
able caste or castes for each kit is given here. 

Requirements: The minimum ability scores 
and other necessary attributes for each kit are 
provided here. All kits are open to both males and 
females. 

Role: This entry explains how a character kit 
fits into the community. Players should not feel 
that their characters are bound by this informa 
tion, but it may provide insight into how the char 
acter is perceived within the community. It may 


also provide clues to how non-player characters 
of this kit are regarded. 

Weapon Proficiencies: The AD&D(r) game rules 
for proficiencies are essential to the creation of a 
Charonti world in which characters distinguish 
themselves through specific skills and abilities. 
Many character kits restrict the weapon proficien 
cies that can be chosen when the character is cre 
ated. 

The Charonti do not have a warrior tradition 
and find shedding blood to be somewhat distaste 
ful. As such, the Charonti have fairly limited in 
terest or expertise in the use of weapons. 

Equipment: If a character is restricted to par 
ticular weapons or armor, these are indicated 
here. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Character kits are 
distinguished by the common skills that a charac 
ter may possess. Bonus; proficiencies may be 
gained automatically, without having to use non 
weapon proficiency slots to select them. Recom 
mended proficiencies are skills that a typical 
character may have, but they are not mandatory. 
Barred proficiencies may not be adopted when the 
character is created. It is possible, in extraordi 
nary circumstances, for the DM to allow a charac 
ter to learn a proficiency that was initially barred. 

Special Benefits: Unique advantages, special 
abilities, and reactions of each kit are described 
here. 

Special Hindrances: Unique vulnerabilities, 
weaknesses, or obstacles are listed here. 

Magical Abilities: This section describes what 
spells or spell-like abilities a character can use. 

Wealth Options: Initial funds for each kit is 
listed here, replacing the rules for starting money 


Common Wizard Traits 

To avoid repetition, some characteristics common to virtually all Charonti wizards are identi 
fied here. 

Caste: All specialist wizards, except Renders, may belong to either the scholar or the guildsman 
caste. Renders may be scholars only. The only type of wizard found among the outcasts is a Dilet 
tante. 

Weapon Proficiencies: All may become proficient with a dagger, staff, knife, dart, and sling. 

Non-weapon Proficiencies: All wizards possess ReadingAVriting as a bonus proficiency. 

Equipment: All wizards are prohibited from wearing armor of any sort, and may not use any 
weapon which they are unable to gain proficiency in. 

Magical Abilities: This section does not appear in any wizard kit description, because all the in 
formation about a wizard's magical abilities is contained either in the general rules concerning spe 
cialists or elsewhere in a kit description under "Special Benefits" and "Special Hindrances." 

Wealth Options: All beginning wizard characters start with (Id4-Hl) xlO gold pieces. 


SO • Chaptsr Tkrss 






in the Player's Handbook. Any restriction or re 
quirement regarding spending or collection of 
wealth according to the character's caste is pre 
sented in Chapter Four. 

Group: All scholars and most guildsmen have 
some sort of affiliation to an institution, such as 
one of the colleges of the Addakainen or one of 
the guilds. This section explains how the group a 
character belongs to interrelates with other 
groups in Charonti society, particularly its rivals. 

WlZMD KITS 

charonti wizards live in a culture that extols their 
craft and exhorts them to advance the magical 
arts for the benefit of the entire community. Wiz 
ards of the scholar caste devote their lives to the 
work of their college within the Addakainen. Each 
college corresponds to one of the eight schools of 
magic in the AD&D(r) game rules (counting Lesser 
Divination and Greater Divination as a single 
school). The colleges are financially supported by 
the Crown, which provides room and board for all 
scholar wizards because their work is seen as es 
sential to the reconstruction of the Charonti na 
tion. Some of these schools are rivals of one 
another and they may clash over what they think 
is in the public interest or where the funding of 
the Crown should be concentrated. However all of 
these colleges know better than to let their con 
flicts interfere with the will of the queen. 

An atmosphere of secrecy surrounds much of 
what goes on within the Colleges of Wizardry, dat 
ing back to the time of their origin in the days of 
the magelords. Each school competes with the 
others for the largest share of the queen's atten 
tion (and revenue), and is not likely to disclose its 
activities to anyone other than the queen and her 
highest advisors. 

Except for the dilettante, this society's gener 
alist magic-user, Charonti wizards are specialists. 
The rules regarding Charonti specialist mages dif 
fer from standard AD&D rules in several impor 
tant ways. 

First, certain spells in the Charonti world are 
elder spells-the earliest magic created in the dis 
tant past. These spells form a basic set of magic 
that is available to any wizard regardless of his 
specialty and regardless of what school the spell 
belongs to. 

All other spells are specialist spells-magic 
available only to wizards who have specialized in 
the school to which the spell belongs. 

Although Charonti specialists cannot learn or 
cast spells from other schools, except for elder 
spells, they can use scrolls or devices that dupli 
cate the powers of those spells. For instance, the 


Elder spells 

A full list of elder and specialist spells is 
given in Chapter Six. Elder spells are listed 
here for reference. 

1st level: cantrip, charm person, comprehend 
languages, detect magic, hold portal, light, 
magic missile, Nefii's spell recall (a unique 
Charonti spell, described in Chapter Six), 
phantasmal force, protection from evil, 
read magic, sleep 

2nd level: continual light, detect evil, detect in 
visible 

ESP, invisibility, knock, levitate, wizard lock 
3rd level: clairaudience, clairvoyance,/ly, haste, 
hold person, infravision, invisibility 10' radius, 
lightning bolt, protection/rom normal mis 
siles, sloiv, water breathing 
4th level: dimension door, plant growth 
5th level: animate dead, teleport 
6th level: antimagic shell, control weather, en 
chant 

an item, geas, globe of invulnerability 
8th level: permanency 


spell feather fall is available only to specialists in 
the school of alteration, but another specialist 
could use a magical ring that had the same effect. 

Opposition schools, as described in the stan 
dard rules, do not exist in the Charonti world for 
purposes of defining spell casting ability. But the 
concept of opposition is present in the rivalries 
and resentments that run between and among 
the Charonti colleges, as brought out in the kit de 
scriptions that follow. 

Another aspect of the Charonti world that has a 
major impact on wizards is the fact that most of 
the magic once known by the Charonti is presently 
lost. It is the task of today's wizards to recover and 
decipher this legacy. Almost all spells of greater 
than 3rd level and many of 1st and 2nd level must 
be unearthed from the ruins of Jakandor. 

A Charonti specialist wizard gains one addi 
tional spell per experience level, provided the 
extra spell is selected from the specialist's school. 
The extra spell cannot be an elder spell from a dif 
ferent school. 

As with the standard rules, a specialist re 
ceives a +1 bonus when making saving throws 
against spells in his specialty, and other charac 
ters suffer a -1 penalty when making saving 
throws against a specialist casting spells from his 
school (even when that spell is an elder spell). 


CRf Charactirs • 31 




A specialist has a +15% bonus to his chance of 
learning a spell from his school-^but only if it is 
taught by his mentor. He has a -15% penalty to his 
chance of learning an elder spell that belongs to a 
different school-unless taught by his mentor, 
then the penalty is negated. (Rules on mentors 
and character advancement are given in Chapter 
Four.) 

Charonti specialists do not automatically gain 
a new spell upon reaching a new experience level. 

A specialist wizard is unable to create a new 
spell that would belong to a different school. 


Artificers believe that it is through their ef 
forts that the just society can exist at all. It is be 
cause of their labor-saving devices and machines 
that the philosophers and others are able to worry 
about research and esoteric matters instead of 
the practical burdens of daily life. 

Artificers are found among the guilds of the 
Charonti. Their work is the foundation of many 
business enterprises. Artificers of 12th level or 
higher are respected and sought after, whether 
they are scholars or guildsmen, because of their 
ability to use the important spells enchant an item 
and geas. 


ARTIFICER 

Artificers are members of the College of Enchant 
ment. They are inventors and manufacturers of 
magical devices for all aspects of Charonti life. 

Requirements: Intelligence 12, Constitution 13. 
Role: Artificers are creators of enchanted ma- 


Weapon Proficiencies: Artificers must first be 
come proficient in the use of the club before 
learning to use other allowed weapons. 

Equipment: Artificers may use any small 
hand tool in combat, such as a hammer or a pry 
bar, with results as though the weapon were a 
club. 


chinery and automatons that facilitate the recon 
struction of the Charonti empire. They rely 
primarily on bone to heighten the magical effi 
cacy of their work, carving it into delicate gears 
and intricate parts. They are admired widely 
among the guildsman caste as creators of practi 
cal marvels and toys, but seen as tinkers by mem 
bers of the scholar caste. 


Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Engineer 
ing. Recommended: Appraising (2), Blacksmithing 
(1), Endurance (3), Language, Ancient Charonti (1), 
Local History (2), Spellcraft (1). Barred: Herbalism, 
Healing. 

Special Benefits; As part of their education, all 
artificers learn how to manufacture a clockwork 


I 


Sft • CHJVPnR Three 





















familiar. This is a device that functions the same 
as a shadow mage's/amiliar, but the casting of the 
find familiar spell is not required in its construc 
tion. 

The creature must be the size and approxi 
mate form of one of the types of familiars men 
tioned in the Player's Handbook. The machine 
moves and behaves exactly like a living familiar of 
the animal it represents, conferring the appropri 
ate sensory powers to its creator. However, if the 
familiar is broken or destroyed the artificer suf 
fers no ill effects and may begin to manufacture a 
new one immediately, either of the same type or 
any other variety he desires. 

Each familiar requires at least a month to 
build and uses 500 gp in materials. When con 
struction of the item is finished, ambulate object 
(see Chapter Six) must be cast to put it into op 
eration. This 2nd-level spell requires an artificer 
of 3rd level or higher to cast the spell. A low-level 
character can usually find someone in the Col 
lege of Enchantment who is willing to perform 
this service for a modest fee. An artificer who is 
a guildsman will certainly not cast the spell for 
free. 

An artificer may only have one familiar in op 
eration at a time-if a second is activated, the first 
one goes inert. An artificer may build a second 
one almost to completion in anticipation of his 
present familiar's demise. It is not possible to 
build a familiar that will be used by someone else, 
since each device is attuned to the person who 
constructed it. 

Artificers enjoy a +2 bonus to their attack rolls 
against manufactured opponents such as au 
tomatons (see the new spell enchant automaton, 
described in Chapter Six) and Charonti Machines 
(see Chapter Five). This Ijonus does not apply to 
undead. 

Special Hindrances: Except for the elder spell 
charm person, artificers are not adept with charm- 
related magic of their school as they are with en 
chantment spells. This lack of expertise is 
reflected in the following different effects for 
spells; 

Friends: The caster gains only ld4 points of 
Charisma, and the duration is only 1 rd./level. 

Hypnotism; The area of effect is a 10 ft. cube, 
and only up to ld4 creatures can be affected. 

Forget: Only one creature can be affected, and 
the target is allowed a saving throw with no 
penalty. 

Scare; This spell only affects creatures with 
fewer than 3 Hit Dice or levels of experience. 

Tasha's uncontrollable hideous laughter; The 
caster can affect one creature for every 6 levels at 
tained. 

Suggestion; The duration is 1 +1 round/level. 


Group: The College of Enchantment is strong 
ly supported by the Crown. Artificers are involved 
with the reconstruction of the cities, doing what 
they can to make life more convenient and plea 
surable for people. Artificers think poorly of the 
galvanists, who they feel are not focusing their re 
search on practical applications that will improve 
the daily life. They see the development of the 
spell galvanize dead (see Chapter Six) as an indica 
tion that the galvanists are more interested in 
reinventing the wheel (and less effectively at 
that), than using their research to augment the 
more advanced work of other wizards. 

Finder 

Finders belong to the College of Divination. Their 
school is dedicated to the recovery of lost magic 
and learning from the Charonti ruins. 

Requirements; Wisdom 16. 

Role; Finders are masters at negotiating the 
lab 5 ninthine passages of ancient ruins and locating 
lost artifacts. No other school of magic is as de 
voted to the practical matters of excavating and 
exploring the ruins. Finders are fascinated by the 
nation's lost heritage, and consider the elder times 
to be the golden age of Charonti civilization. They 
dedicate the time between expeditions to the 
study of ancient records in the Dodecon. Finders 
believe that no other college is as closely tied to the 
queen's vision or has done as much to advance the 
reconstruction. They consider the other schools to 
be distracted with novelty and to lack focus. 

Finders are almost always a part of a Crown 
expedition. They are greatly respected for their 
abilities, but most others find them too absorbed 
in their ancient books, maps, and scrolls and 
rather unsophisticated in their appreciation of 
contemporary politics and how things really get 
done. 

Quite a few finders are part of the guildsman 
caste, where they are to help seek fortune in the 
ruins. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Finders must use their 
initial proficiency slot to learn use of the dagger. 

Equipment: Finders use daggers and staves, as 
well as a variety of chisels, lockpicks, and probes 
to examine stone constructions. They also carry a 
variety of divining tools-rods, crystals, glasses, 
and fetishes. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Direction 
Sense; Ancient Charonti History. Recommended; 
Fire-building (1), Language, Ancient Charonti (1), 
Religion (1), Rope Use (1), Spellcraft (1). Barred; 
Herbalism, Healing. 

Special Benefits: The finder's skill in navigat 
ing the ruins is unmatched. Through study and 


CitSATiNO Characters • S3 



S4 • CKAPTm Thru 

I 


personal experience, a finder is familiar with the 
architecture of the cities, temples, and tombs of 
ancient times. Upon arriving at a ruined building 
not previously explored, a finder may attempt to 
discern the approximate original size, layout, and 
purpose of the place. Success is determined by 
rolling dlOO and comparing the result to the total 
of the finder's Intelligence + Wisdom + (level x 5). 
If that total is equal to or greater than the dice 
roll, the finder has discovered accurate informa 
tion. For instance, a Ist-level finder with Int 14 
and Wis 16 has a 35% chance of being correct 
about what he perceives. The DM should roll this 
check to prevent the player from knowing when 
his character has succeeded. 

A failed check provides the finder with simi 
lar, but inaccurate information relative to the 
severity of the degree of failure. For instance, a 
finder who made a successful roll might discern 
that a ruined temple may have four subterranean 
levels with a sanctuary located in the center of 
the second level at the end of a southern stair 
case. If the check failed by a moderate amount 
(up to 20%), the finder might mistakenly think 
that the temple has only two levels with no obvi 
ous access to the second level. If the check was 
failed by a large amount (35% or more), the finder 
might believe the structure is not a temple, but 


rather a religious academy likely to hold nothing 
of interest. 

Finders have the following special skills simi 
lar to dwarven abilities. These abilities are not au 
tomatic, the player must declare that his 
character is deliberately examining stonework to 
discern one of the following characteristics in 
order to make a skill check dice roll. 


Detect grade or slope 10%+ 

Detect new construction 10%+ 

Detect sliding/shifting walls or rooms 10%+ 

Detect stone traps, pits, and deadfalls 10%+ 

Determine approximate depth underground 10%+ 
Determine approximate age of site/item 10%+ 
Determine direction of shortest path to exit 10%+ 


The base chance of success is 10%. At 1st level a 
finder may allocate a bonus 60% points among 
these abilities to improve any score, but no abil 
ity may be increased by more than 30% points. 
Each time a finder advances in experience, each 
level, he recieves an additional 30% bonus points, 
but no more than 15% points may be assigned to 
any skill. No skills may be improved to greater 
than 95%. 

Only one skill may be used at a time, and each 
time finder tries he must spend a full turn exam- 












































ining the object or site in question before rolling 
the check. 

Special Hindrances: Finders must use their 
detection abilities on a regular basis, or they will 
become rusty. If a finder goes more than a week 
without visiting a ruin, his skill scores are treated 
as half value (rounding down). Upon returning to 
the ruins, if a successful check is made at the pe 
nalized level the skill will return to its original 
score. All abilities are restored to normal levels 
after a finder spends 24 hours actively exploring a 
site, regardless of whether he uses his abilities 
during that time. 

Group: Finders are dedicated to exploring the 
ruins and recovering the Charonti heritage before 
it is lost. Their most fervent adversaries, the 
shadow mages of the College of Conjuration, 
claim that finders advance too recklessly and are 
too quick to handle artifacts that they do not un 
derstand. Shadow mages fear that the finders 
may inadvertently jeopardize the nation's safety 
by stumbling into a lost temple and awakening a 
power from beyond the material world. Finders 
see this as an excuse on the part of the shadow 
mages to keep their fingers in everything. They 
also feel that exercising too much caution in ex 
ploring the ruins is simply giving the Knorr more 
time to destroy the Charonti legacy. 

Oalvahist 

Galvanists are students of the College of Invoca 
tion. They are masters of electrical energy and be 
lieve that the future of the nation will be built 
upon galvanism. 

Requirements: Constitution 16. 

Role: Galvanists concentrate on spell re 
search more than on deciphering ancient spell 
codices, for they believe that the key to improv 
ing Charonti society lies in reviving and main 
taining the original spirit of invention and 
discovery that built the ancient world, not in 
simply digging up the past. Few galvanists be 
come guildsmen, but some do leave their college 
in order to use their skills for the benefit of their 
family or a guild. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Galvanists must use 
their initial proficiency slot to learn the use of the 
quarterstaff. They also may train with dagger or 
rod. 

Equipment: Galvanists are easily identified 
because of their preference for metal staves. 
These staffs are equivalent to wooden quarter- 
staffs for purposes of combat, but they can also be 
used for channeling electricity as described 
below. 


Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; None. Rec 
ommended; Appraising (2), Blacksmithing (1), En 
durance (3), Fire-building (1), Language, Ancient 
Charonti (1), Local History (2), Spellcraft (1). Barred; 
Herbalism, Healing. 

Special Benefits: The galvanist is a master in 
the manipulation and use of electrical energy. If 
the wizard is the target of an electrical attack, he 
may be able to prevent personal injury by grasp 
ing his metal staff and planting it firmly on the 
ground, causing the electricity to flow into his 
staff and then dissipate into the earth or floor be 
neath him. This action must be taken prior to the 
discharge of the attacking magic, and a galvanist 
who is poised to resist an electrical attack can 
take no other action in the round when the attack 
occurs. 

Any damage that would have been delivered 
by such an attack is dissipated up to the total of 
the galvanist's hit points at the time of the attack. 
Any damage over this amount is treated as nor 
mal electrical damage and subtracted from the 
galvanist's remaining hit points. For example, if 
Qadsurthan has 10 hit points remaining when he 
is struck with a 12-point electrical attack, the first 
10 points of the attack are dissipated and the re 
maining 2 are suffered as damage, leaving the 
character with 8 hit points. The galvanist may at 
tempt a saving throw to reduce or avoid the re 
maining damage if appropriate. 

A galvanist may use the spell shocking grasp to 
revive a character who is rendered unconscious 
and has less than 1 hit point. Note; in the Cha 
ronti scheme of magic, this spell is considered to 
belong to the school of invocation as well as the 
school of alteration. The spell is cast normally, but 
damage is treated instead as healed hit points. If 
the amount healed restores enough points to ex 
ceed the recipient's full normal hit points, the re 
cipient loses 1 point of Intelligence for each point 
in excess (and the extra points are not converted 
to hit points). Casting the spell on a character 
with 1 or more hit points inflicts damage as usual. 

A galvanist is particularly adept at casting 
magic missiles and lightning bolt, the two elder 
spells that are also part of the school of invoca 
tion/evocation. Both the range and damage for 
these spells are doubled when cast by a galvanist 
(but not when the galvanist uses a magical item 
that duplicates the spell's effect). The maximum 
damage possible for a lightning bolt spell is still 
10d6, but a galvanist reaches this capability at 5th 
level instead of 10th. 

Special Hindrances: A galvanist acts as an at 
tractor for electrical energy. Half of the effect re 
sulting from any discharge of electricity that 
delivers damage within 10 yards of a galvanist 
will be rerouted to the wizard. This tendency to 


CRIAnNO CKARACTIRS • 3i 



attract electricity does not apply to that generated 
by the galvanist himself. A galvanist's staff may 
be used to diffuse such a discharge. Thus, if an 
other character springs an electrically trapped 
chest within 10 yards of the galvanist, half the 
damage is routed to the wizard. If the wizard had 
his staff set to receive the electrical energy, dam 
age is diffused and assessed as described above. If 
the attack is randomly directed or not specifically 
targeted, such as a natural lightning strike, there 
is a 50% chance that the galvanist will draw the 
full force of the attack. This tendency for a gal 
vanist to interfere with electrical activity often 
prevents two or more of these specialists from 
working or traveling together. 

Group: Galvanists are more interested in mag 
ical research than politics and will serve on the 
queen's Council only to make certain they are al 
located the funds necessary to advance their re 
search. Members of the College of Invocation 
maintain a rivalry with artificers of the College of 
Enchantment/Charm, who spend their time put 
tering in workshops building lumbering machines. 
Galvanists see artificers as tinkerers who simply 
put new dressing on old ideas without pursuing 
fundamental research into the underlying princi 
ples of their work. 

PORTER 

Porters are members of the College of Alteration. 
While their magic has a vast number of applica 
tions, they are known best for their work involv 
ing the creation of magical transportation and 
reconstruction of the cities of the Charonti. 

Requirements: Dexterity 15. 

Role: The magic of the porters lies at the cen 
ter of the Charonti notion of space. Due to magi 
cal gates, teleportation, and dimensional doors (a 
dimension door spell upon which permanency has 
been cast), the Charonti people view their cities as 
essentially one community, not four places sepa 
rated by hundreds of miles of desolate wilder 
ness. Needless to say, the work of porters is seen 
as both practical and highly valued by all castes of 
society. 

Porters are considered vital members of many 
Crown expeditions into the ruins. They believe 
that they will be at the forefront of the nation's 
advancing borders. Porters aspire to extend the 
physical reach of the Charonti nation, so that 
their people might once again resume their role 
as caretakers of the world. 

Porters are well represented among the 
guildsman caste, and there are several guilds built 
entirely around magical forms of transportation, 
providing delivery services as well as rapid transit 
systems. 


Weapon Proficiencies: Porters normally learn 
the use of daggers as their first proficiency slot, 
but at later experience levels gravitate toward un 
common weapons such as a length of chain, a 
grapple hook, a lasso, or a whip. 

Equipment: Besides a dagger, porters carry 
skeletal keys, a wand of bone to focus their spells, 
and a percussion instrument as a reuseable spell 
component, such as a gong, crystal chimes, or 
bells 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Direction 
Sense. Recommended: Jumping (2), Language, An 
cient Charonti (1), Local History (2), Navigation (2), 
Spellcraft (1). Barred; Agriculture. 

Special Benefits: A porter is particularly adept 
at the use of movement-oriented magic. The fol 
lowing forms of magic are treated as though they 
are one spell level lower when determining 
whether a porter may learn or cast the spell: levi 
tate, rope trick*, blink, fly, haste, slow, wraithform, di 
mension door, distance distortion*, passwall", teleport, 
phase door*, teleport without error*. Note that spells 
marked with an asterisk (*) are lost-not presently 
available, but perhaps to be rediscovered. 

A porter can assemble and orient a home gate 
(one of the new magic items described in Chapter 
Six) in 1 hour instead of the 12 hours required by 
others. 

At 5th level a successful Intelligence check al 
lows a porter to have a general sense of the desti 
nation of a teleportation gate or dimensional 
door. After taking 1 round to examine the portal, 
a porter may be able to ascertain that the desti 
nation is many miles away or only a few hundred 
yards. The character can tell if the destination is 
higher or lower in altitude as well. Failing the In 
telligence check means that no information is 
available or, at the DM's discretion, that incorrect 
information is obtained. 

At 8th level a successful Wisdom check allows 
a porter to actually look through a dimensional 
door or a teleportation gate and see the destina 
tion as though the character were looking 
through an ordinary door. 

Special Hindrances: Porters are responsible for 
the safe transportation of their party members 
when serving the Crown. A porter must always sub 
ordinate his personal safety to that of his party. This 
means that he may not enter a dimensional door or 
a gate first when the group is fleeing danger, nor 
may he enter one last when he and his comrades 
are heading for an unknown destination. 

Additionally, because of the constant stress 
on their bodies from teleportation and dimen 
sional travel, porters are susceptible to a tempo 
rary weakening condition. On any day when a 
porter travels through a dimensional door or tele- 


S6 • Chaptsa Thrss 



portation gate more than once, the character 
loses ld4 points of Constitution and ld4 points of 
Strength (roll separately for each ability score) for 
each time such a passage is made after the first. 
All points lost in this manner can be recovered by 
resting for a full day. If either of the porter's abil 
ity scores is reduced to 0 the character will com 
plete the passage successfully, but then collapses 
unconscious for one day. When he revives, both 
scores will be at half value (rounded down) of 
their normal amounts, and the remainder of the 
lost points will be regained after another day of 
rest. Because of this vulnerability, expeditions 
into the Charonti ruins often have more than one 
porter among their members. 

Group: The College of Alteration is dedicated 
to the physical expansion of the Charonti nation. 
Its members have an adversarial relationship 
with the wardens of the College of Abjuration be 
cause of the wardens' overly cautious and med 
dlesome attitude about establishing teleportation 
gates in the ruins.Wardens refuse to defer to the 
porters in issues regarding safety of their meth 
ods of transportation. 


RENDER 

Renders are specialists of the College of Necro 
mancy. They are the wizards who save the 
Charonti dead from the depredations of supernat 
ural powers by preserving and reanimating them 
as Charonath. 

Caste: Renders are the only wizards who must 
be members of the scholar caste. If a render is ex 
pelled from the College of Necromancy, the only 
way he can continue to practice his profession is 
by becoming an outcast wizard. 

Requirements: Wisdom 16. 

Role: It is the renders who ensure that 
Charonti citizens may continue to serve their civi 
lization after death and need never be abandoned 
to an afterlife of wandering or subordination in 
the realms of the supernatural. Renders are scien 
tists and metaphysicians who have mastered the 
separation of a dead body into component parts. 
Renders view their work as saving lives from obliv 
ion and preserving them in a way that is beneficial 
to the nation's reconstruction. They are highly re 
spected among the Charonti, and the Crown sup 
ports their efforts to refine their research and 
methods. 


Crcatino Characters • 37 













Weapon Proficiencies: Renders may become 
proficient in the use of the rending knife as well 
as the other weapons allowed to them-and must 
devote their first proficiency slot to that weapon. 

Equipment: Renders will possess a rending 
knife as well as tools for flensing the flesh from 
bones. They also often possess amulets, neck 
laces, or fetishes made of bone and tanned hides. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Reading/ 
Writing. Recommended: Fire-building (1), Language, 
Ancient Charonti (1), Local History (2), Spellcraft 
(1). Barred: Herbalism, Healing. 

Special Benefits: Although any Charonti wiz 
ard can learn and cast the elder spell animate dead, 
a render is able to use this spell as though it were 
only a 3rd-level spell. Thus, ^is magic is available 
to the character when he reaches 5th level in 
stead of having to wait until 9th level. (See the 
note following the description of the unique 
Charonti spell rend the dead in Chapter Six for in 
formation on how animate dead functions as a 
Charonti elder spell.) 

The unique Charonti item known as a rending 
knife (see Chapter Five) is not expressly intended 
to be used as a weapon, but happens to be ex 
tremely effective in the hands of a render. If used 
by such a character, it strikes with a +1 bonus on 



attack and damage rolls against the living, and is 
+2 to damage against undead. 

A render can repair all types of Charonath by 
transferring flesh and muscle (hit points) from 
one creature to another of the same type. The 
surgery requires one turn per hit point trans 
ferred, and the character must have use a rending 
knife to operate. 

Special Hindrances: A render regards undead 
as a valuable resource and will not destroy such 
creatures unnecessarily, even if they are hostile. A 
render earns no experience points for taking part 
in an incident or encounter in which any undead 
are destroyed. 

Because renders concentrate so intensely on 
necromantic magic in their studies and their day- 
to-day activities, most are not as skilled as other 
wizards when it comes to the use of elder spells. 
Any elder spell that is not part of the school of 
necromancy (in other words, all except cantrip and 
animate dead) is treated as if it were one level higher 
for the purpose of determining how soon the ren 
der can learn and cast it. For instance, even a 
simple light spell-available to any other wizard at 
1st level-cannot be learned and used by a render 
until he has attained at least 3rd level when he can 
cast 2nd level spells. The only renders who are not 
bound by this restriction are those with Intelli 
gence and Wisdom scores of 18. 

Wealth Options: Since all renders are scholars 
and thus prohibited from amassing personal 
wealth, any fees they receive for rending must be 
donated to their college. 

Group: The College of Necromancy is located in 
the Hall of Perpetual Life, the public building in the 
capital dty of Alchatay at which aU Charonti dead 
may be rended properly. The renders are in an on 
going feud with the sandmen of the College of Illu 
sion, who they feel are corrupting and distorting the 
record of the ancient Charonti civilization by using 
illusion magic to accumulate information instead of 
relying on the truthfulness and accuracy of the 
shaddoc, the animated skulls of their ancestors. The 
renders are extremely suspicious of most of the 
records collected by the sandmen, since they con 
tend that this information can be easily falsified. 

Sandman 

Sandmen are affiliated with the College of Illu 
sion. They are serve as recorders and historians, 
as well as performing artists. 

Requirements: Dexterity 16. 

Role: Sandmen serve the Crown as active wit 
nesses, known as recorders, on important expedi 
tions who can later recreate the events they have 
seen so that others can view them. They know the 


S8 • Chapti R Thru 


if 


ment and remote 
document (see o 

Chapter Six) 

that allow I J 'sj/ ) / 
record and 

ages that they ^Tjj j| 

Sandmen are \\^^M q jiir'h 

also entertainers \ J /tr^ ^ 

and interpreters ^. 

of Charonti cul- j, sJL||^^|r^^y X 1 W 
ture. They can f I /- 

recreate histori- ^^^/flll'Di' - ^ 1 i'T) ' 
cal events Ml'' 

through the casting of ^ 

dramatic illusions for the education and enter 
tainment of the people. From illusionist 
scrolls stored in the Dodecon that serve 
(in effect) as illustrated books, sand- 
men use their knowledge of the 
ancient Charonti language to study 
a body of traditional Charonti legends 
which deal with such topics as the ere- 
ation of the world, the rise of the ancient 
Charonti, the age of the magelords, and of course 
the history of the reconstruction. The informa 
tion contained in these scrolls is often used in fes 
tivals and public celebrations. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Sandmen will learn to 
use a dagger as their first proficiency. As they rise 
in experience level they are limited to learning to 
use a rod or staff as common weapons. However, 
Sandmen have developed their own special 
weapons including a blow gun, bellows, or bombs 
which deliver sprays of sand, pepper, smokes, or a 
gas that enhances delusions (-2 to saving throws 
against iWnsionsy 

Equipment Sandmen prefer to use crystal dag 
gers, and will carry specialized components to aid 
5ieir spells, such as; illustrated codexes, mirrors, 
crystals, and noise makers capable of imitating 
sounds (but not actual speaking or animal cries). 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Artistic 
Ability; Language, Ancient Charonti. Recom 
mended; Etiquette (1), Gaming (2), Local History (2), 


lilii s-' 







exact lines of speech from past conversations as 
well as odd details that would escape the notice 
of any other character. (In game terms, the player 
of a sandman character may at any time ask the 
DM to confirm a fact about a previous incident. 
For instance, upon noticing a tattoo on a bandit's 


Musical Instrument (1), Singing (1), Spellcraft (1), 
Ventriloquism (2). Barred: Engineering. 

Special Benefits: A sandman's education is 
centered on cultivating his powers of observa 
tion-which in combination with a wizard's typi 
cally acute memory can be a powerful force. As a 
result, a sandman never forgets the smallest de 
tail of anything he has observed. He may recall 


arm, a sandman may ponder whether he has ever 
seen the mark before. Even though the player of 
the sandman character may not remember this, 
the DM must answer truthfully if the same mark 
appeared woven into a tapestry hanging on a high 
scribe's wall.) 

Sandmen also gain a bonus when discerning 
the true nature of an illusion, seeming, or phan- 


Crsatiho Charactim • 39 




tasm, gaining a +2 bonus to saving throws 
against illusions, and gaining a saving throw at 
-2 to detect the true nature of an altered item or 
creature. 

The Dodecon lends scrolls to sandmen of the 
scholar caste that include illusions of historical 
events for the purpose of public education or en 
tertainment. The illusions will not fool or confuse 
people into thinking that the images portrayed 
are actually occurring. Only 
sandmen can use these scrolls, and a character 
may borrow only one per week. 

Sandmen who leave the college to become 
guildsmen may perform for a wage. A sandman 
can generate an income of 10 gold pieces per ex 
perience level each month by dedicating a num 
ber of days equal to his level to nothing but 
performing illusions for people's entertainment. 

Special Hindrances: Sandmen suffer from a 
socially marginal role in matters of important de 
cision-making. While these wizards are often wel 
comed to report upon events, few scholars feel 
comfortable with a sandman observing them, be 
cause they may not always know when their ac 
tions are being recorded. Additionally, some 
wizards do not trust the records of sandmen, 
knowing that illusions can be tampered with. 
Guildsmen enjoy the public performances of 
sandmen, but tend to be rather close-mouthed 
when one enters their place of business. People 
are generally wary of discussing secretive matters 
in front of sandmen. 

Group: Research is less of a priority in the Col 
lege of Illusion than it is in many of the other col 
leges. The renders of the College of Necromancy 
see illusion as a false veil that pollutes a clear vi 
sion of the cycle of death and rebirth. They fear 
that an increasing dependence upon possibly un 
reliable illusory historical documents will start to 
lead the Charonti away from regarding the shad- 
doc as the true source of historical record. Con 
versely, the sandmen are resentful of the constant 
challenges of the renders regarding the veracity of 
their reports. 

Shadow Made 

Shadow mages are associated with the College of 
Conjuration. They practice a dangerous form of 
magic, conjuring or summoning unnatural crea 
tures, that is difficult to control and which is 
strictly monitored by the Crown. 

Requirements: Constitution 15. 

Role: Shadow mages are figures of some con 
troversy. Their spell casting involves summoning 
creatures from supernatural realms and binding 
them to their will. Some Charonti philosophers 


think it is fitting and proper that shadow mages 
should learn to understand these mechanisms, 
for it is by similar means that powers from be 
yond the material world try to subordinate free- 
willed beings of this world. Those who support or 
condone the activity of the shadow mages believe 
that their research may one day serve as the of 
defense against the intrusion of supernatural be 
ings into the affairs of the Charonti. 

All loyal Charonti believe that summoning 
creatures from beyond the material world is ap 
propriate only if it serves the needs of the just so 
ciety, unlike the great powers who subordinate 
sentient creatures simply to satiate their vanity. 
Some scholars maintain that shadow mages are 
tampering with forces that will either draw the 
unwanted attention of a great power, or will 
tempt the Charonti into adopting the arrogance of 
the gods themselves. The general population re 
gards shadow mages with fear and respect. 

Few shadow mages exist among the guilds- 
man caste. Their services are not generally useful 
to the guilds because their spell casting is strictly 
regulated. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Shadow mages may 
become proficient in the use of the club as well as 
the other weapons allowed to them, but must de 
vote their first proficiency slot to the dagger. 

Equipment: Shadow mages use weapons 
made of reinforced or hardened bone. Their scry 
ing and conjure devices are made of rare metals 
or ceramics decorated with bone or patterns 
painted in blood. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus: Weather 
Sense. Recommended; Animal Handling (1), Fire 
building (1), Gem Cutting (2), Language, Ancient 
Charonti (1), Local History (2), Spellcraft (1). Barred: 
None. 

Special Benefits: A shadow mage may learn 
spells from the school of conjuration/summoning 
regardless of the experience level of the character 
or the level of the spell. They suffer no penalty to 
learn such a spell and add it to their spell book. 

Shadow mages may attempt to memorize 
spells one level higher than they can normally 
know. Any spell in a shadow mage's repertoire 
may be memorized as if it is a lower level spell if 
the mage has not memorized all his spells for that 
level and as long as over 50% of the spells memo 
rized at any spell level are that level. Thus, a mage 
who can memorize 5th-level spells, but has mem 
orized all he can, may memorize another 5th level 
spell as a 3rd-level spell if he has any slots re 
maining and over half the spells memorized at 
3rd level are 3rd level. High level spells memo 
rized at lower levels suffer a control penalty as de 
scribed in Special Hindrances. 


40 • Chapter Three 



This ability can be used only with conjuration 
spells that enable a spell caster to control a sen 
tient or semi-sentient creature, such as monster 
summoning I, summon person (see Chapter Six), con 
jure elemental*, Mordenkainen's /aith/ul hound*, con 
jure animals*, invisible stalker*, ensnarement*, and 
higher-level spells of the monster summoning fam 
ily*. It does not apply to spells that summon non- 
sentient beings or that have automatic effects, 
such as summon swarm, flame arrow, sepia snake 
sigil, Euard's black tentacles', or Leomund's secret 
chest*. (Of the spells listed above, those marked 
with an asterisk (*) are not presently within the 
body of Charonti knowledge.) 

In addition, a shadow mage has a special abil 
ity when it comes to casting a find familiar spell. A 
shadow mage may cast this spell as often as once 
per day, wildi no need for a material component, 
and does so with a casting time of ldl2 hours in 
stead of 2dl2 (roll separately for each casting). 
The familiar that arrives is not randomly deter 
mined, but is selected by the shadow mage from 
the list of possibilities given in the Player's Hand 
book. In addition to those animals, it is possible 
for a shadow mage to summon a common zombie 
or a skeleton to serve as his familiar. Neither crea 
ture brings the caster any special sensory powers, 
but undead familiars can be useful in surveillance 


because they can move silently. 

If a shadow mage chooses to summon a fa 
miliar, any familiar the mage may already have 
escapes his control at the completion of the new 
spell's casting and loses any connection to the 
mage. This separation causes no injury to either 
the wizard or the familiar. Each time a mage casts 
find familiar, there is a 25% chance that the crea 
ture sought is not available within the range of 
the spell. In such cases, the mage still loses any 
previous familiar, but must wait 24 hours before 
attempting the spell again. 

Special Hindrances; If a shadow mage tries to 
cast a spell he can not normally use (according to 
standard rules), or tries to cast a high level spell as 
a low level spell, there is a 10% chance per differ 
ence in spell levels or spell limits that the caster 
will lose control of the spell during each round it 
remains in effect. For instance, a 2nd-level 
shadow mage who has learned the 3rd-level spell 
monster summoning I may choose to cast it as 1st- 
level spells. In each round after the spell is cast, 
including the one in which it takes effect, there is 
a 20% chance that the shadow mage will lose con 
trol of the spell (level 3 spell - level 1 slot = 2 x 10% 
= 20%). If, in this case, the spell duration (4 
rounds) runs its course, and there is a 2 in 10 
chance that the monsters will break free of the 



Crsatino Characti RS • 41 




















shadow mage's control before they vanish. Loss of 
control may simply mean the disappearance of 
whatever was conjured, or it may result in disas 
ter, depending on circumstances (and, of course, 
the DM's discretion). 

The use of summoning magic is strictly regu 
lated in Charonti society, because of the difficulty 
of controlling summoned creatures-even under 
the best of conditions-as well as the risk of at 
tracting the attention of a supernatural power. No 
spell that summons an unnatural or a sentient 
being-except for find famiUar-may be performed 
legally without a specific warrant granted by a Ju 
rist of the Crown. In petitioning for this warrant, 
the shadow mage must explain the need for the 
spell and why this need cannot be met by other 
means. A warrant is never given to allow a wizard 
to freely use such a spell at his own discretion, but 
rather to overcome a specific obstacle or problem. 
Each warrant is valid for a specific period of time, 
and such documents are almost never issued to 
allow spell casting within the walls of the Civil 
Centers. Shadow mages may cast summoning 
spells without a warrant, but will not in front of 
witnesses. 

Group: The College of Conjuration is seen as a 
place of singularly dangerous research and is 
closely monitored by the Crown. Few candidates 
are accepted as apprentices to this college. The 
long-dead elders of this school are said to have 
known a lost spell that could grant the caster his 
dearest wish. 

Shadow mages bear a grudge against the Col 
lege of Divination, insisting that finders are likely 
to trigger a supernatural disaster by foolishly 
dashing through all the ruins without understand 
ing the nature of the power that lies within them. 
The shadow mages also fear that the finders may 
not always be forthcoming with the information 
they learn regarding the ruins, and for this reason 
the conjurers want to be consulted by the finders 
before any new expeditions to ensure they are not 
getting into anything over their heads. 

Warden 

Wardens are from the College of Abjuration. They 
are members of a class of wizards dedicated to 
protective magic, and as such are often called 
upon to protect individuals and items of impor 
tance. 

Requirements: Wisdom 15, lawful neutral 
alignment. 

Role: Wardens are masters of defensive 
magic. They are highly valued for their ability to 
prevent harm to individuals and property. High 
scholars with political enemies and guildsmen 
with aggressive competitors seek assistance from 


these wizards. The Crown employs wardens on 
expeditions to escort vulnerable individuals and 
to protect ancient discoveries. The wardens see 
themselves as serving the Charonti society by 
protecting its people from the ambitions of those 
whose vision of the future is less than just. They 
believe also that as the past is uncovered, the 
people must remain vigilant to the dangers it 
might open up to the society. 

A few wardens have left the college for one 
reason or another to join the guildsman caste. 
These wizards often find lucrative careers as pri 
vate guards to wealthy guildmasters. Scholar war 
dens still consider themselves a part of their 
profession, although they are entitled to none of 
the resources of their college. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A warden may become 
proficient in the use of the club as well as the 
other weapons allowed to him, and must use his 
first proficiency slot to learn ues of the staff. 

Equipment: A warden is subject to the same 
restrictions as other wizards, but often wear a 
protective artifact, such as a ring, necklace, 
amulet, bracers, helm, or cloak of +1 enchantment 
or higher. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Recommended; Di 
rection Sense (1), Etiquette (1), Language, Ancient 
Charonti (1), Reading Lips (3), Spellcraft (1). Barred: 
None. 

Special Benefits: A warden can detect noises 
as a thief, beginning with a base chance of 15% at 
1st level and increasing by 5% per additional level 
gained. Likewise, wardens can find/remove traps 
as a thief with a base ability of 10% and an in 
crease of 5% per level beyond 1st. Neither of these 
abilities can be improved beyond 90%. 

The effectiveness of these abilities is dramat 
ically improved when two or more wardens work 
in concert. The ability of an individual warden to 
detect noise or find/remove traps is increased 
+10% for each warden present and attempting to 
use the same ability.Thus, three Ist-level wardens 
would each have a +30% chance of finding a trap. 
(The 90% maximum for any single warden still 
applies.) 

A warden who is not surprised, gains a -3 
bonus to initiative the first round of combat, a -2 
bonus the following round, and a -1 bonus in the 
next round. 

A warden can cast any abjuration spell as 
though it had a casting time of 1. 

Special Hindrances: A warden is required to 
adhere to a strict code of lawful-neutrality; the 
fundamental rule is "to provide protection at any 
cost"-even at personal jeaopardy to the wizard.. 

If a warden has been assigned or hired to pro 
tect a party member or an object within a party. 


48 • Chaptsii Thru 




he must put the safety of his charge ahead of his 
own welfare in all decisions. For instance, a war 
den and his client are traveling together, as they 
should, for no self-respecting warden would allow 
them to become separated, and they are attacked 
by savage Knorr armed with a bow and arrows, 
the warden must cast his protection from normal 
missiles spell on his ward rather than on himself. 
To do otherwise, especially in the presence of wit 
nesses, is to denounce everything the honorable 
profession of warden stands for. 

A warden who deliberately compromises a 
task to which he has been assigned is stripped of 
all wizardly possessions, suspended from mem 
bership in the college, and not allowed to receive 
training and advancement until he is able to once 
again display the necessary strength of character 
to uphold his responsibilities. The only way for a 
warden to avoid this punishment is to escape into 
the Outlands and become a fugitive. 

It is possible for wardens to be hired by two 
parties on opposing sides of a conflict. In such a 
case, one warden must never attack or compro 
mise the professional integrity of the other. If the 
other warden does attack first (thus showing him 
self to be disreputable), the victim is required to 
attempt to subdue the opponent rather than use 
lethal force. 


Wealth Options: Scholar wardens may sell 
their services to private individuals and guilds, 
but are expected to donate their earnings to the 
college. 

Group: The College of Abjuration is commonly 
referred to as the Ward Home by the Charonti. Of 
all colleges, it has perhaps the most lucrative 
means of earning income independent of the sub 
sidies it receives from the Crown. Consequently, 
wardens remain somewhat distant from palace 
politics, not feeling as great a need to campaign 
for funds on their own behalf. This aloofness ac 
tually serves to enhance the wardens' perceived 
trustworthiness among their patrons in the other 
colleges and in government. 

Wardens have had conflicts with the College of 
Alteration, whose porters repeatedly open magical 
gates back to the Civil Centers that were not well 
secured and threatened to allow dangerous crea 
tures access to the cities. It is only a matter of 
time, say the wardens, before the carelessness of a 
porter allows a pack of howling Knorr or some 
thing worse to pour through a gate and into the 
heart of the nation. 


CRSAnMO CHARACTIRS • 43 
















DILETTAMTE 

Dilettantes are non-specialist mages. 

Caste: Most dilettantes are guildsmen who have 
learned some spell casting from master mages of 
their guild or a family member. Some are scholars 
who are students of the Open School and have 
begun to study the practice of spell casting indepen 
dently but have not entered a college. All the wiz 
ards who exist among the outcasts are dilettantes, 
because without access to the resources of a college 
it is impossible for them to become specialists. 

Requirements: None, all wizards can be dilet 
tantes. 

Role: In a society in which magic plays such 
an important role and in which intellectual in 
quiry is considered the highest calling, there are 
many would-be mages who are attracted to spell 
casting. But many simply do not have the ability 
to excel in the crafts as the specialists do. 
Charonti view generalist mages as people who, 
even though they may be extremely intelligent, 
lack a certain inner focus. Nevertheless, dilet 
tantes exist and persist. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Standard. 


Equipment: Standard. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; None. Rec 
ommended: Any fi-om the General, Rogue, and Wiz 
ard groups. Barred: None. 

Special Benefits: Because a dilettante does not 
specialize, he is theoretically capable of learning 
and casting any spell. All of the elder spells are 
available to these wizards, just as they are for any 
other. In addition, a dilettante has a chance of 
being able to learn any specialist spell he encoun 
ters. This chance is equal to the character's expe 
rience level X 10, divided by the level of the spell 
(rounding down). 

For example, a 5th-level dilettante has a 16% 
chance to learn a 3rd-level specialist spell ([5 x 10] / 
3 = 16), and a 6th-level dilettante has a 30% chance 
to learn a 2nd-level spell ([6 x 10] / 2 = 30). 

Special Hindrances: None. 

Group: A dilettante is not a member of a col 
lege. Such a character may, however, be enrolled 
in the Open School. Usually a dilettante finds em 
ployment in a family business or with a guild. 
Most outcast dilettantes operate alone or sell 
their spell casting services to the highest bidder. 





44 • CKAPTCR ThrSS 


















Rogue Kits 

Rogues in Charonti culture are generally charac 
ters who must rely on their wits instead of their 
spell casting ability. Like all other Charonti, they 
are comfortable with magic and may use it in 
their daily lives, but it is not the center of their 
world. Only the bandit, an outcast by definition, is 
a thief in the traditional sense. Chirurgeons are 
healers who came into being after the collapse of 
the ancient empire when clerics had all but dis 
appeared. Companions are professional conversa 
tionalists whose wit and charm make them 
highly sought after by their patrons. Rogues 
known as guildsmen are merchants and commu 
nity leaders. And scribes are politically savvy bu 
reaucrats of the Crown. All rogues have distinct 
roles in adventures and Charonti society. 

Bandit 

Bandits live outside the realm of Charonti culture. 
They have no social standing. 

Caste: All bandits are outcasts. 

Requirements: None, any rogue can be a bandit. 

Role: Most bandits are rogues and scoundrels 
who make their livelihood at the expense of 
others. Some, however, have built small commu 
nities that offer shelter to the beleaguered people 
of the Outlands. It is rumored that guardians and 
guildsmen who frequent the Outlands for one 
reason or another sometimes hire bandits as in 
formants and guides. This is a criminal offense, 
but Charonti officials look the other way at the 
practice for it is certainly better to establish 
Wendly relations with a bandit, than to fall victim 
to his gang. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A bandit may be profi 
cient in the use of the club, dagger, dart, knife, 
short bow, sling, long sword, short sword, or staff. 

Equipment: Bandits may use any weapon 
with which they are proficient. They may wear 
leather, padded leather, or studded leather armor. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Survival, 
Direction Sense. Recommended; Animal Lore (2), 
Blind-fighting (2), Disguise (1), Local History (1), 
Running (2), Set Snares (1). Barred: Reading/ Writ 
ing, Etiquette. 

Special Benefits: Bandits are experts in con 
cealing themselves and laying an ambush. For 
each hour a bandit or a group of bandits has to 
prepare an ambush, a -1 penalty is applied to the 
surprise roll of anyone who later stumbles across 
the location, up to a maximum penalty of -4. This 
is only effective against other Charonti and not 
against animals. Because of the barbarian's ani 


mal-like senses, this skill can only penalize a 
Knorr party's surprise roll by -1 regardless of how 
much time was spent preparing the ambush. 

An outcast bandit has the added benefit of 
knowing the Outlands. He is adept at finding his 
way in the wilderness: All bandits receive a -50% 
modifier to their chance of getting lost in any cir 
cumstances. Unless his way is blocked, a bandit 
can always retrace his steps, even in darkness. 

Bandits are the only Charonti rogues who can 
use all thieving skills normally. In the Outlands 
there is a distinct thieves' cant that bandits can 
use among themselves when they want to avoid 
eavesdroppers. 

Special Hindrances: Bandits are social out 
casts. To work officially for any civil expedition, a 
bandit must become a citizen by swearing fealty 
to the queen. At this time the character is geased 
by a Jurist and must serve the queen to the best of 
his abiUty. Bandits may not legally enter the set 
tled quarters of the cities unless they are escorted 
by citizens and they are entering the city in order 
to pledge their loyalty to the Crown. 

It is illegal for private citizens to trade with 
outcasts, although some guildsmen are rumored 
to do this. 

While in the Outlands, bandits are culpable for 
their crimes only to the extent that their victims 
may forcibly seek retribution. Once a bandit has 
sworn loyalty to the queen, any crime except those 
perpetrated against enemies of the Crown is a vi 
olation of their geos with appropriate penalties. 

Magical Abilities: At 10th level, a bandit gains 
a limited ability to use wizard and priest scrolls 
(25% chance of reversing an effect, as an ordinary 
thief). 

Wealth Options: ld6 x 10 gold pieces. 

Group: Bandits have no official affiliation with 
other segments of Charonti society or culture, but 
do occasionally form into large gangs in the Out 
lands. 

Ckiruiigson 

chirurgeons are healers who practice without 
magic. 

Caste: All chirurgeons are guildsmen or out 
casts. 

Requirements: Dexterity 16, good or neutral 
alignment. 

Role: The craft of non-magical healing arose 
during the early years after the plague, when 
many spell-casters were killed on sight for fear of 
carrying the plague. A new method of curing the 
sick and healing the injured without resorting to 
magic was needed, and after much experimenta- 


CRSAnNO CKARACTIRS • 45 



tion several elixirs were developed by the people 
who became the first chirurgeons. Their philoso 
phy sprang from a radical belief that the Charonti 
dependence upon magic was the reason for soci 
ety's collapse. At the time of the Congregation, 
many chirurgeons were attracted to the queen's 
vision of a compassionate and just society. 

These healers have lessened in their distrust 
of magic, but continue to practice their craft free 
of enchantment. Chirurgeons are trained in the 
repair and maintenance of corporeal undead as 
well as living people. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A chirurgeon may be 
come proficient in the use of the club, dagger, 
dart, knife, lasso, short bow, sling, short sword, 
long sword, or staff, and cannot wield any other 
weapons. 

Equipment: A chirurgeon may wear leather, 
studded leather, or padded leather armor. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Reading/ 
Writing: Healing; Herbalism. Recommended: Local 
History (1), Seamstress/Tailor (1). Barred: Read 
Magic (see Chapter Five). 

Special Benefits: Chirurgeons have an extra 
ordinary understanding of anatomy, and as such 
gain a +2 bonus to all damage they inflict using 
melee weapons to attack humans, skeletons, or 
zombies. 

Chirurgeons also have the ability to repair cor 
poreal undead. As long as the creature has at least 
1 hit point remaining, a chirurgeon may use the 
healing non-weapon proficiency to repair it. Un 
like living creatures, undead need not rest in 
order to benefit from a chirurgeon's healing profi 
ciency. 

Chirurgeons are the only characters who can 
create non-magical elixirs (see Chapter Five). 

Special Hindrances: Chirurgeons are, as a 
rule, pacifists. In the tradition of pure Charonti 
values, they find violence distasteful and will only 
personally participate in combat if self-defense is 
necessary. A chirurgeon does not earn experience 
points for any encounter in which he personally 
causes injury. 

Magical Abilities: Chirurgeons have no ability 
to manipulate or read magic, but may use any 
magic item available to rogues. 

Wealth Options: 2d6 x 10 gold pieces. 

Group: Chirurgeons comprise a guild that acts 
as a college to train and educate its members. 

COKPANIOH 

These characters are a professional class of con 
versationalists, storytellers, musicians, and flirts. 

Caste: All companions are guildsmen. 


Requirements: Charisma 17, Intelligence 13, 
Wisdom 13. 

Role: Companions are trained to entertain pri 
vate individuals through conversation, dance, and 
recitals of poetry and history as well as simple 
companionship. In a society that relies on 
arranged marriages, there is often a need for 
friendship and emotional intimacy not found in 
conventional institutions. The companions fill 
this role. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A companion may only 
use the short bow, dagger, dart, knife, sling, and 
short sword. 

Equipment: Companions may wear any armor 
but cannot use their special benefits and thieving 
skills while wearing anything stronger than 
leather. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus: Dancing; 
Etiquette. Recommended; Artistic Ability (1), En 
durance (3), Language, Ancient Charonti (2), Local 
History (1), Musical Instrument (1), Singing (1), 
Spellcraft (2), Ventriloquism (1). Barred; None. 

Special Benefits: The greatest asset of com 
panions is their enchanting charm. Each of these 
rogues has certain spell-like abilities that can be 
used every day a number of times equal to the 
character's level. The number of abilities from 
which a companion may choose increases as the 
character advances. At 1st level a companion may 
choose from the following spell-like abilities; 
cantrip, charm person, and friends. Additional abili 
ties are gained as follows: 2nd level, taunt; 3rd 
level, hypnotism; 5th level,/orgct; 10th level, sugges 
tion; and 12th level, emotion. All of these abilities 
are used the same way the spells of the same 
names are cast, except that a companion needs 
no material components to bring about the ef 
fects of friends, taunt, and suggestion. 

Companions also have the ability to influence 
reactions of groups of NPCs like a bard (see Chap 
ter 3 of the Player's Handbook). This ability only 
works on Charonti and will not work on Knorr, 
even if the beast-men are able to understand 
what the companion is saying. 

In one-on-one conversation, the companion is 
more effective. When he attempts to influence an 
individual when no other listeners are present, 
and that individual fails his saving throw, the DM 
should roll twice for the reaction of the NPC and 
select the result that is closer to the effect sought 
by the companion. 

Beginning at 5th level, a companion may use 
scrolls of spells from the school of enchantment/ 
charm. However, on any such attempt there is a 
50% chance, minus 5% per level of the companion, 
that the reading will fail and the effect of the spell 
will be reversed. The chance of failure can never 


46 • CXAPTIR TXRII 


be less than 10%, regardless of the level of the 
character. 

Finally, companions may use unused weapon 
proficiency slots for non-weapon proficiencies. 

Special Hindrances: Since they are creatures 
of comfort and are used to leading languid epi 
curean lives, companions only have a few thiev 
ing skills: move silently, hide in shadows, detect noise, 
and read languages. They begin with the standard 
base scores in these abilities and at 1st level re 
ceive 30% bonus points to allocate among them. 
Thereafter the character receives 15% more bonus 
points to allocate for each level of advancement. 
No single score can be improved by more than 
10% points at a time. 

If a companion attacks or harms a character 
or any sentient creature, the companion's spell 
like abilities will never again effect that character 
or creature. 

Magical Abilities: None other than those de 
scribed above. 

Wealth Options: 4d4 x 10 gold pieces. Com 
panions cultivate rarefied tastes and generally 
will settle for nothing less than the finest clothing 
and jewelry to adorn themselves. They often es 
cape strictures on their lifestyle by living at their 
guildhouse, where they may enjoy luxurious ac 


commodations that are not technically their own. 
Companions must pay 10 gold pieces or 10% of 
their income per month to five at the guildhouse, 
whichever is more. 

Group: Companions are considered members 
of the guildsman caste, although many of their 
clientele are scholars. Their cultivated manners 
and general mental acuity allow them to interact 
easily with the higher caste. A companion's guild 
in each Civil Center provides its members with 
rigorous training in all types of entertainment. 
The guild of Alchatay is said to train the most de 
mure and charming conversationalists. The guild 
of Orchaleum is reputed for producing compan 
ions of unusually keen musical ability as well the 
finest players of table games. 

OUILDSKAN 

Guildsmen make up the bulk of the Charonti pop 
ulation. They are the artisans and merchants of 
Charonti society. 

Caste: All guildsmen are, not surprisingly, 
members of the guildsman caste. Guild families 
may enter the employ of the Crown by accepting 
contracts for goods or services. 

Requirements: Charisma 11. 



CRlATlHfr CHARACTIRS • 47 



















Role: Guildsmen are a magically literate class 
of skilled workers. As a group they do not have 
particularly high social status in the eyes of most 
scholars: however, the significant wealth of the 
most prosperous merchants does make them re 
spected by all members of society. Many guilds 
men lead expeditions into the ruins for private 
gain, and some attempt to trade illegally with the 
outcasts. At their worst, some guildsmen collude 
with bandits in the Outlands and provide them 
with supplies from the cities. 

Most guildsmen work within the traditional 
vocations of their families; however, it is not un 
common for a child to be taken in as an appren 
tice by a neighbor or a friend of the family. Some 
guildsmen strike out on their own to begin inde 
pendent businesses. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A guildsman may be 
proficient with the club, dagger, dart, knife, short 
bow, sling, long sword, short sword, and staff. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Appraising; 
Read Magic (see Chapter Five). Recommended: 
Charioteering (2), Disguise (1), Etiquette (1), 
Forgery (1), Local History (2), Spellcraft (2). Barred: 
Blind-fighting, Gaming, Juggling, Jumping, Set 
Snares, Tightrope Walking, Tlimbling. 

Equipment: A guildsman cannot wield any 
weapon other than those mentioned in "Weapon 
Proficiencies" above. He may wear any armor, al 
though the best type normally available in the 
Charonti culture is studded leather. 

Special Benefits: Beginning at 3rd level, a 
guildsman can read and use scrolls of wizard 
spells. There is a 30% chance minus 2% per level 
of the guildsman that he will read the spell incor 
rectly, causing it to malfunction in some way that 
will be detrimental to the guildsman and his 
party. (The exact effect is up to the DM.) 

A guildsman has a 5% chance per level to 
identify the general purpose of any magic item. 
The character 

need not handle the item, only examine it closely. 
Even if the check is successful the exact function 
of the item is never revealed, only its general na 
ture. 

Guildsmen know their way around the 
Charonti marketplaces and can always manage to 
borrow money. A guildsman in a Civil Center may 
borrow up to 1,000 gold pieces per level, but must 
repay the loan within 6 months-plus interest of 
25% minus 1% per level. A guildsman may have 
only one loan outstanding at any given time. If the 
character defaults, the creditor may ask a Jurist to 
geas the character into service until the full 
amount is paid. 

Guildsmen also have the ability to inspire 
other members of their caste with motivational 


speeches. Once per day a guildsman can launch 
into a "pep talk" that will affect all listeners up to 
10 feet away per experience level of the guilds 
man as if they had been recipients of a bless spell. 
The guildsman must speak without being inter 
rupted for one round, and the effect upon listen 
ers lasts for one round per level of the speaker. 
(Note that the speaker himself is not affected.) 

Special Hindrances: Guildsmen have no thiev 
ing slalls. 

Magical Abilities: Guildsmen can use magical 
items normally available to rogues and may use 
scrolls as described above. 

Wealth Options: (3d6 x 10) + 100 gold pieces. A 
guildsman may amass wealth freely but should 
never have more personal wealth than the guild's 
treasury. Rules for how a guildsman must divide 
his income are provided in Chapter Four. If the 
character has no parents or siblings, there is no 
social restriction on his acquisition of wealth. 

Group: Young guildsmen often attend the 
Children's School to learn to read magic, after 
which they return home to become apprentices in 
the family business. Some do not go to school, but 
are taught the rudiments of reading magic by wiz 
ards associated with their family or guild. 

Scribe 

Scribes are the officials who manage the daily af 
fairs of the Crown. 

Caste: All scribes are scholars. 

Requirements: Charisma 14. 

Role; Scribes are the pages, couriers, bureau 
crats, auditors, tax collectors, and minor func 
tionaries of the government. They are hired for 
their organizational ability and communication 
skills. All scribes are part of an organizational hi 
erarchy that is directed by the Vizier, who reports 
directly to the queen. Scribes are often assigned 
to arrange the logistical matters of Crown expedi 
tions into the ruins. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A scribe may only use 
the short bow, dagger, dart, knife, sling, and short 
sword. 

Equipment: A scribe may wear leather or 
padded leather armor. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies; Bonus; Etiquette; 
Language, Ancient Charonti; Reading/Writing. 
Recommended: Artistic Ability (1), Forgery (1), Local 
History (1), Reading Lips (2). Barred: Juggling, Set 
Snares, Tightrope Walking, Himbling. 

Special Benefits: Scribes are masters of eti 
quette and diplomacy. Every time a scribe charac 
ter is eligible to go up in level, the player of the 


48 • Chapter Three 



character may roll a d20 to see if the character is 
on a career fast track. If the die roll plus the level 
to which the character is attempting to advance is 
less than the character's Charisma score, then the 
check succeeds and the scribe immediately rises 
one additional level. If the check fails, the scribe 
advances normally-unless the modified die roll 
is 20 or higher, in which case the character loses 
all but 1 of the XP he has gained at his current 
level, and he must repeat the level before at 
tempting to advance again. 

For example; A 3rd-level scribe with a 
Charisma score of 15 is ready to advance to 4th 
level. If the player of the character wants to try for 
rapid advancement and rolls a 10 or lower on d20, 
the modified die roll will be 14 or lower and the 
fast track check succeeds. The scribe skips 4th 
level and becomes a 5th-level character with the 
minimum necessary XP (in this case, 10,001). If 
the modified die roll is 20 or higher, the rogue 
drops from 5,000 XP back down to 2,501 and must 
earn those XP all over again. Note that the die roll 
is not mandatory; a scribe may simply choose to 
advance normally and not risk losing the XP he 
has gained. 

A scribe can read and use scrolls of wizard 
spells and priest spells. There is a 20% chance 
minus 2% per level of the scribe that he will read 


the spell incorrectly, causing it to malfunction in 
some way that will be detrimental to the scribe 
and his party. (The exact effect is up to the DM.) 

A scribe can make copies of wizard and priest 
scrolls. The chance of creating a usable copy is 
10% plus 10% per level of the character, minus 5% 
per level of the spell. This number may never ex 
ceed 90%. Each copying attempt takes two days 
per level of the spell, and the work must be done 
without interruption. If the copying attempt fails, 
the original scroll is destroyed and the copy is 
useless. 

Scribes have a bureaucratic jargon based on 
the ancient Charonti language. The vocabulary in 
volves topics such as accounting, scheduling, and 
management of resources. The jargon cannot be 
understood by a non-scribe character unless the 
listener has the Language, Ancient Charonti non 
weapon proficiency and makes a successful profi 
ciency check with a -3 penalty. If the check 
succeeds, the listener can discern the general 
topic of conversation but little else. 

Special Hindrances: A scribe can use only the 
following thieving skills: open locks, move silently, 
hide in shadows, detect noise, and read languages. A 
scribe receives only 40% bonus points at 1st level, 
and only 20% bonus points are added per level of 
advancement (including any level the scribe suc- 


CREMIHO CKARACTERE • 49 













ceeds in skipping as per the "fast track" rules 
above). No more than 10% points may be applied 
to one skill at a time, and no skill can be raised 
above 95%. 

Scribes are great consensus builders and feel 
uncomfortable sticking their necks out. Conse 
quently, when part of a group a scribe may not 
pursue a course of action that has been discussed 
unless at least one other character agrees. 

Magical Abilities; None other than those de 
scribed in "Special Benefits" above. 

Wealth Options: 2d6 x 10 gold pieces. 

Group: Scribes are scholars who have studied 
at the Open School and are hired from there as 
apprentices within the government. Scribes live 
in government dormitories and normally have a 
mentor to whom they are apprenticed. A scribe's 
loyalty is to the queen and then the Vizier. 

PRIEST KITS 

Each type of Charonti cleric has a distinctive role 
in society. Cultists and pantheists try to find 
meaning in subordinating themselves to distant 
gods of primitive races that the ancient Charonti 
encountered in their travels. Jurists act as wise 
counselors to the Charonti people by applying the 
queen's idea of justice on a daily basis. The spiri 
tual leaders of the culture are the philosophers, 
who devote themselves to the ideal of a just soci 
ety. Thanhotepics continue in their devotion to 
the sleeping elder god of the ancient Charonti. 

CULTIST 

These Charonti priests devote themselves to the 
worship of the various gods of the simple races 
that the ancient Charonti documented in the 
records of their explorations. 

Caste: A cultist may be a scholar, a guildsman, 
or an outcast. 

Requirements: Wisdom 12 or lower, no evil 
alignment for scholars and guildsmen. 

Role: Thousands of years ago Charonti explor 
ers went out to all parts of the world and returned 
with detailed accounts of the beliefs and religious 
practices of the savages they encountered. Many 
of these ancient records have been unearthed 
from libraries in the ruins and brought back to the 
great library of the Dodecon. 

Cultists are Charonti who have found a sense 
of spiritual identity by immersing themselves in 
the lore and romance of a god of the primitive re 
ligions. These characters are often intellectually 
curious children of scholar families who have at 
tended the College of Thought and become in 


volved in studying the ancient records. An under 
standing of the nature of gods and their cults is a 
part of iJie schooling of all Charonti philosophers, 
but the education process is designed to empha 
size the injustice of being ruled by a supernatural 
power. Some students feel otherwise, however, 
and become devotees of a lost faith. These stu 
dents are considered intellectual lightweights, 
emotionally needy, or just plain eccentric by more 
dutiful students of the College of Thought. 

Cultists are not organized and tend not to try 
to recruit followers. A cultist embraces a religion 
for the sake of the spiritual flfillment it provides 
him, not because he wants to make it more popu 
lar. 

For game purposes, a cultist is simply a priest 
of any faith in the campaign world in which the 
DM has set Jakandor. For instance, if the island is 
placed on the world of Toril, any priesthood from 
a Forgotten realms(r) product may be used. If the 
campaign is free-standing and considered inde 
pendent of any other world, a player may intro 
duce a priesthood from any AD&D* game support 
product that the DM chooses to allow. As a gen 
eral rule, no more than one priest of any particu 
lar faith should be present in a group of Charonti 
player characters. 

Weapon Proflciencies: As appropriate to 
deity. 

Equipment: A cultist may use weapons and 
armor appropriate to his deity, as long as those 
weapons and armor may be found in Charonti 
culture. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Reading/ 
Writing. Recommended; As appropriate to deity. 
Barred: As appropriate to deity. 

Special Benefits: A cultist enjoys all the bene 
fits of his adopted priesthood, except those that 
would conflict with the nature of Charonti soci 
ety. For instance, as has been stated, no temples 
of any sort are allowed in the Civil Centers. Also, 
because they are seen as members of fringe 
groups, cultists are never granted any civil au 
thority, and they do not elicit any respect from the 
population at large. Only their followers, if they 
have any, will treat them with deference. 

Special Hindrances: The cultist's faith is built 
upon an extremely fragmentary knowledge of 
how their god was served over 5,000 years ago by 
rather primitive people. Thus, their faith may be 
confused or founded on misunderstanding. As a 
result, cultists have inconsistent access to the 
spells that accrue to a normal adherent of their 
adopted faith. On any given day the cleric may 
only have major access to one spell sphere and 
minor access to one other sphere, regardless of 
the normal magical abilities of the priesthood 


iO • Ckaptir Thru 



that the cultist has adopted. Every day the cultist 
must decide which spheres he will draw spells 
from, choosing from all the spheres available to 
his adopted order. 

An evil cultist may only dwell in the Outlands, 
and if such a character is called to the attention of 
the Crown, the queen will move quickly to eradi 
cate him with extreme prejudice. 

Magical Abilities: As appropriate to the deity, 
except that spell acquisition is restricted as de 
scribed in "Special Hindrances" above. 

Wealth Options: 3d6 x 10 gold pieces. 

Group: Scholar cultists are often students of 
the College of Thought. As long as they are en 
rolled there, they may find a simple room and 
board among the dormitories. They may freely 
study the ancient records of their faith in the li 
braries and seek to recover new information in 
the ruins. 

Among the guildsman caste, ordinary crafts 
men who suffer from a fascination for the history 
of other cultures may become cultists after 
spending too much time in the public rooms of 
the Dodecon. These eccentric devotions may be 
passed on quietly within a family for generations. 

In the Outlands there is little accounting for 
the wide array of bizarre beliefs that gain adher 


ents. A fragment of writing found in a ruin, an an 
cient temple, or even the dark and bestial prac 
tices of the Knorr may become the basis for a new 
cult. 

Jurist 

Jurists are the officials of the queen responsible 
for administering justice. 

Caste: All Jurists are scholars. 

Requirements: Wisdom 16, neutral good 
alignment. 

Role: Jurists, actually a subgroup of philoso 
phers, are dedicated servants of the queen who 
strive to embody the virtues of reason and com 
passion that are extolled by their monarch. Be 
cause of their broad civil powers. Jurists are 
respected by all citizens and feared by some. 
Charonti law gives wide latitude to the individual 
wisdom of a jurist. At the same time. Jurists do 
not abuse their power; they are of unimpeachable 
character and always strive to moderate the rea 
son of their rulings with compassion. 

The decisions of Jurists can vary widely in ex 
tremity and duration. One Jurist might assign a 
child who has been throwing vegetables at 
passersby to clean up the mess and apologize to 



[iiif 





CnlAflNO CKARACnilS • 51 































the victims as well as clean all of their laundry for 
a week. Another one might decree that the child 
should stand in the plaza for one hour, during 
which time his victims are allowed to throw veg 
etables at him. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Jurists may only be 
proficient in the use of the quarterstaff, and may 
carry only this weapon while within the Civil Cen 
ters. In the Outlands a Jurist may use any other 
weapons, but normal penalties for non-profi 
ciency apply. 

Equipment: Jurists may use any type of armor, 
but seldom wear armor of any sort in the Civil 
Centers. When in public or on official duty, a Jurist 
is garbed in a distinctive white robe and a tall, 
cylindrical hat that swells out like an inverted 
cone. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Reading/ 
Writing, Etiquette. Recommended; Local History (1), 
Reading Lips (3), any General except Mining; Rid 
ing, Airborne; and Riding, Land-based (1 slot 
each). Barred; Brewing, Disguise, Forgery, Gaming. 

Special Benefits: Jurists have the power of 
judge and jury in Charonti society. A Jurist may 
stop any civilian he deems to be in need of cor 
rection and take appropriate action. The process 
of Charonti justice over which Jurists preside is 


described in detail in Chapter Four. 

A Jurist can enforce his decisions by calling 
upon the power of a magical amulet that is used 
to temporarily mark a citizen who has committed 
an offense. (See the pendant of the just society, de 
scribed in the section on new magic items in 
Chapter Six.) 

A Jurist has the power to overrule a decision of 
a lower-level Jurist as long as he consults with the 
original ruling Jurist in an attempt to come to an 
agreement on the new decision. If the Jurists are 
unable to agree, they may appeal to a higher-level 
Jurist to resolve the dispute. 

Jurists have these powers and duties: 

At 1st level a Jurist may resolve any dispute 
between Charonti citizens with the force of law. 

At 2nd level a Jurist may assign property 
from any ordinary Charonti citizen to any other, 
or to the Crown. This power may be used to re 
solve a dispute, correct an injustice, punish a 
crime, or reward exemplary demonstrations of 
duty or community-minded behavior on the part 
of a citizen. 

At 3rd level a Jurist may assign any citizen to 
a task as a means of promoting justice, teaching a 
lesson, building character, or punishing inappro 
priate behavior. 

At 4th level a Jurist may assign a citizen to any 


58 • CHAPTIR TKRSE 



vocation. This may entail changing the citizen's 
caste. A change of vocation requires that the Jurist 
cast the spell knoiu calling (see new spells in Chap 
ter Six) and apply the result. 

At 5th level Ae Jurist may arrange marriages 
between any two Charonti, but must use the spell 
divine match (see Chapter Six) for guidance and 
must heed the result of the spell. 

At 6th level a Jurist may request permission 
from the Crown to have a high-level galvanist cast 
spellbum (see Chapter Six) for the purpose of pre 
venting someone from continuing to use a spell 
that has been stolen or used in a crime. The re 
quest must be approved by a higher-level jurist, 
and the spell may only be used for the specific 
purpose described in the request. 

Jurists are able to read and use any scrolls of 
priest spells, with a chance of failure equal to 20% 
minus 2% per level of the jurist. 

Special Hindrances: Because of their power. 
Jurists are under severe scrutiny from the com 
munity, higher-level Jurists, and the queen. A Ju 
rist may not possess property and may not rule in 
a case in which he has a conflict of interest or 
stands to gain personally from the decision. If a 
Jurist violates his ethical code or behaves in a 
manner that is contrary to the interests of the 
queen, he will be apprehended and brought to the 
College of Thought. There he will be stripped of 
his pendant, not allowed to cast spells except 
under strict supervision, and assigned a task to be 
performed as penance. 

Magical Abilities: Jurists, like philosophers, 
begin at 1st level with minor access to the spheres 
of all and divination. With each level gained, a Ju 
rist may acquire minor access to another sphere 
of his choice, or may choose to gain major access 
to a sphere to which he already has minor access. 

Wealth Options: 2d6 x 10 gold pieces. 

Group: Jurists are trained within the College of 
Thought. They are selected from the class of other 
philosophers, of which they are considered a spe 
cialist corps, to enforce the queen's justice. They 
tend to be more practical-minded than other 
philosophers and have a sensibility that is less 
speculative and more consistent with the think 
ing of the queen. 

PANTHEIST 

These priests believe that there is truth to be 
found everywhere and in almost all religions. 

Caste: A pantheist may be a scholar, a guilds- 
man, or an outcast. 

Requirements: None. Any priest character can 
be a pantheist. 


Role: Somewhat akin to the cultists, these 
clerics enjoy studying ancient historical texts as 
well as engaging in contemporary discussions of 
philosophy. Pantheists feel that philosophers and 
cultists are rather unsubtle in their simplistic de 
votion to a single ideal or deity. Truth, like hu 
manity, is not absolute, but rather a matter of 
degree. It is constantly changing and difficult to 
grasp. Thus, the pantheists seek to find the wis 
dom that can be discerned from any human ex 
perience. There are no formal pantheistic 
organizations or institutions among the Charonti, 
but simply the individual practices of free-think 
ing people. 

Philosophers sometimes regard pantheists as 
amateurs who do not have the mental discipline 
of discernment. Cultists see them as noncommit 
tal dabblers who try to find commonality in ideas 
and faiths where none exists. 

While pantheists are frequently of neutral 
alignment, those who are good will often show a 
preference for ideas that reflect their alignment. 
Thus, a lawful good pantheist may be attracted to 
the ideas of the philosophers of that alignment as 
well as notions of various lawful good religions 
that have been recovered in the archives. The com 
bined notions of law and goodness are the com 
mon truths that they will tend to see in all things. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Pantheists may be 
come proficient in the use of the dagger, sling, 
short bow, short sword, and quarterstaff. 

Equipment: Pantheists rarely wear anything 
other than leather armor, but in the Outlands 
they may wear any armor. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Reading/ 
Writing, Religion. Recommended: Language, An 
cient Charonti (1), Local History (1). Barred: Any in 
Warrior Group. 

Special Benefits: Pantheists know a little bit of 
everything when it comes to religion and philoso 
phy. They have a base score of 10% chance plus 5% 
per experience level (maximum 90%) to identify 
the general purpose and function of any clerical 
item or structure. The ancient Charonti are be 
lieved to have allowed small communities of 
primitive people to come and dwell amid the high 
civilization of Jakandor. Consequently, odd 
chapels and altars have been occasionally found 
amid the ruins. A pantheist may be able to iden 
tify the general nature of the faith represented by 
such a structure. 

Special Hindrances: Pantheists are regarded 
with scorn by most other priests. The Charonti are 
great believers in the notion that each person is 
suited to master a particular discipline-and pan 
theists are seen as masters of nothing. However, 
they are often included on expeditions to recover 


CRSAnHO CKARACTSRS • 53 


ancient records because of their helpful general 
knowledge. 

Magical Abilities: Pantheists have minor ac 
cess to all spell spheres.They may turn and control 
undead normally, and can use scrolls of cleric 
spells of any level. 

Wealth Options: 3d6 x 10 gold pieces. 

Group: Scholar pantheists are students of the 
College of Thought. They are provided space in 
the dormitories and permitted to study with the 
philosophers and cultists. 

Guildsman pantheists normally practice some 
trade or craft during the day and devote them 
selves to their religious studies in their leisure 
time. They may spend evenings at the library or in 
the company of friends who share similar inter 
ests. 

Among the outcasts, pantheists are far less 
common than in the Civil Centers because there 
is not much variety in the attitudes and behavior 
of those who live in the Outlands. 

pkilosopheh 

Philosophers are the spiritual leaders of the 
Charonti society. They are fully devoted to the 
ideal of justice and draw their power from this 
veneration. 

Caste: All philosophers are scholars, and are 
the most respected of all members of their caste. 

Requirements: Wisdom 15, good alignment. 

Role: Philosophers dedicate themselves to the 
Charonti ideal of the just society. The queen be 
lieves that her people are moving in that direc 
tion, but that the solutions that are working today 
may not be appropriate once the nation has re 
claimed Jakandor and is expanding once again 
across the seas to bring enlightenment to the 
world. Consequently, the philosophers of lawful, 
neutral, and chaotic inclination speculate and 
argue in order to prepare a vision that may be im 
plemented as the empire grows. 

Philosophers are the most influential mem 
bers of the scholar caste. They are passionate 
lovers of wisdom and truth, and devote their time 
to discussing the moral complexities of the 
Charonti mission to rebuild the empire in a man 
ner that will show the way to the heathens and 
the gods alike. Philosophers spend their lives af 
filiated with the School of Thought, serving as 
teachers at all levels of the educational system. A 
group of the most profound thinkers are selected 
to serve on the Court of the queen and to raise 
and educate the heir to the throne. When Jurists 
feel unable to find a just solution to a question or 
problem that a superior Jurist has been unable to 
answer, the question will often be raised before 


the Court of Philosophers, which discusses the 
matter and makes a recommendation. The queen 
moderates and engages in these discussions and 
ultimately issues the final arbitration. 

Each philosopher belongs to one of three 
groups having clearly divergent visions of where 
society should be headed, based upon the indi 
vidual's ethical alignment. 

The Lawful Vision; As our empire is restored, 
the Crown will hold sway over an ever increasing 
number of people. As our numbers swell, we will 
need to create systems and policies that will pre 
vent the arbitrariness of individual decision-mak 
ing so that all people will be treated equally by the 
Crown. Thus, an increasing amount of law will be 
necessary, for as our population grows, so too will 
grow the number of people who require shep 
herding and cannot be relied upon to act in the 
best interests of the society. The number of diver 
gent visions and interests will increase. Upon this 
growing chaos, we must impose order and seren 
ity. 

The Neutral Vision; Our society is now as it 
should be. We are ruled by reason balanced with 
compassion. We cannot become rules-minded, 
nor can we subject our society to the indignities 
and foolishness of libertines and individual capri 
ciousness. A practical balance of traditional order 
and flexibility is the only way for our society to re 
main the model for all sentient beings. Clearly, 
without order we will succumb to war and petti 
ness as did the magelords of years ago-^but com 
passion, by its very nature, involves the ability to 
make exceptions to established rules. 

The Chaotic Vision; The most just society is one 
with the greatest ability to respond to the mo 
mentary good, for life is nothing but an accumu 
lation of these moments. Tirue, we can use magic 
to help each person do what can best serve soci 
ety; however, a truly just society will allow indi 
viduals to pursue their desires without being 
scolded by reason. We must recover our lost 
knowledge but remain modest in numbers, so 
that we can afford to do the right thing regardless 
of any arbitrary decisions that might have served 
better at some other time. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Philosophers may be 
come proficient with the club, the quarterstaff, 
and the short bow. In the Outlands they may use 
any other weapon, but normal penalties for non 
proficiency apply. 

Equipment: Philosophers may wear any 
armor, but prefer the lightest armor that is practi 
cal for a situation. They wear nothing heavier 
than leather while in the Civil Centers. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Reading/ 
Writing. Recommended: Agriculture (1), Ancient 


54 • CKAPTXR TxsSS 



T 



sisted by the philosopher. The philosopher's resis 
tance is not effective when the character is not 
conscious. 

Philosophers have a special abililty to discern 
what is true and real, and as such gain a +4 bonus 
to their saving throws against illusions, in addi 
tion to any other bonuses that may apply. 

Special Hindrances: The concept of gaining 
spellcasting power from an idea rather than from 
a supernatural force is a fairly recent innovation 
of the Charonti philosophers. For this reason, 
their acquisition of spellcasting power is rather 
slow (as described under "Magical Abilities" 
below). 

Each philosopher must dedicate himself to ei 
ther the lawful, neutral, or chaotic view of the 
Charonti ideal of the just society, and must exem 
plify his beliefs in his daily life. If a philosopher 
begins to behave contrary to his alignment or to 
his alignment's view of the just society, the char 
acter will lose spellcasting ability until an act of 
penance assigned by a higher-level philosopher of 
the same alignment is performed. 

Magical Abilities: Philosophers begin at 1st 
level with minor access to the spheres of all and 
divination. With each level gained, a philosopher 
may acquire minor access to another sphere of 
his choice. Optionally, a philosopher may choose 


History (1), Engineering (2), Etiquette (1), Lan 
guage, Ancient Charonti (1), Local History (1), Reli 
gion (1), Spellcraft (1). Barred: All in Warrior group 
except Bowyer/Fletcher. 

Special Benefits: Philosophers are naturally 
skeptical and often disdainful of clerical devotion 
to supernatural powers. They tend to think of 
those powers as a refuge for the morally weak, 
and regard the powers themselves as petty and 
venal. Philosophers gain their power not from a 
deity, but rather from devotion to their abstract 
ideal of a just society. As their own faith and de 
votion to the just society increases, they gain an 
increasing resistance to the spells of priests who 
associate themselves with supernatural powers, 
which includes all other Charonti priests except 
Jurists. This resistance is a percentage equal to 
the philosopher's level x 10, minus 5% per level of 
the other priest. For example, a 3rd-level philoso 
pher has a 20% (30 minus 10) chance to resist a 
spell cast by a 2nd-level priest. 

This resistance is an innate aspect of the 
philosopher's frame of mind and cannot be by 
passed by an act of will. Thus, a philosopher may 
prove resistant to beneficial spells such as cure 
light wounds or heal. Beneficial spells that affect an 
area, such as prayer, may work on others within 
the area of effect while at the same time being re 


CntAtlHQ CHARACTIRS • 55 




































to gain major access to a sphere to which he al 
ready has minor access. 

Wealth Options: 2d6 x 10 gold pieces. 

Group: The College of Thought is the school of 
Charonti philosophy. By definition, all philoso 
phers-and only philosophers-are affiliated with 
this organization. 

Tkahkotspic 

Thanhotepics are priests of the elder sleeping god 
of death and rebirth, Thanhotep, who was once 
the center of Charonti spiritual life. 

Caste: A Thanhotepic may be a scholar 
(rarely), a guildsman, or an outcast. 

Requirements: Since Thanhotep is a lawful 
neutral deity, most of his clerics are of that align 
ment as well, but a Thanhotepic character may 
also be lawful good, lawful evil, true neutral, or 
chaotic neutral. 

Role: The priests of Thanhotep play a varied 
role in Charonti society. The Crown permits no 
temples of any faith to be erected within the set 
tled quarters. The worship of Thanhotep has 
dwindled over thousands of years and now per 
sists primarily in general secular customs of the 
people. 

Thanhotepics who live in the Civil Centers 
hold small private ceremonies in the homes of 
friends but generally do not have large followings. 
Their observances are largely personal, but they 
are called upon by traditional-minded Charonti at 
times of births, marriages, and deaths. They are 
viewed by some with respect and scorned as delu 
sional by others. There is no formal church struc 
ture, although informal relationships form that 
allow one priest to pass the tradition on to a 
younger priest. 

Many Thanhotepics live in the Outlands. 
Some of these have excavated ancient temples 
and surrounded themselves with fanatical wor 
shipers and undead minions. These priests be 
lieve that they are the only custodians of the true 
Thanhotepic faith and see all other priests (in 
cluding Thanhotepics who live in the cities) as 
heretics. They believe that the Charonti of the 
cities have lost their way and must one day return 
to their ancestral god and creator. 

Thanhotepics do not share a single set of be 
liefs concerning the power they all revere. Some 
believe that the elder god may have died, but has 
now been reborn and must be worshiped even 
though he does not yet recall who he is. Others 
believe the god has indeed fallen asleep and that 
it is their task to wake him. Still others insist that 
he is alive and well and waiting for his straying 
flock to return. 


Weapon Proficiencies: A priest of Thanhotep 
may become proficient in the use of the short 
bow, quarterstaff, dagger, and khopesh. 

Equipment: Thanhotepics may wear any 
armor but prefer ornamental padded leather. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Singing. 
Recommended: Ancient History (1), Language, An 
cient Charonti (1), any General except Mining and 
Riding, Airborne (1 slot each). Barred; None. 

Special Benefits: A priest of Thanhotep is able 
to turn or control undead as if he were one level 
higher than he actually is. 

A Thanhotepic has the ability to speak with 
dead once per day, with no chance that the magic 
will fail (since it is not a spell being cast, but a 
spell-like ability) and producing results as though 
the priest were two levels higher than he actually 
is. 

Unlike other clerics, a Thanhotepic may use 
the spell cure light wounds to repair damaged cor 
poreal undead as though they were living crea 
tures. A cure light wounds scroll prepared by a 
Thanhotepic may be used by any cleric to heal un 
dead. 

Special Hindrances: Thanhotepics suffer 
under social stigmas that range from the admira 
tion of the outcasts to the scorn of most members 
of the scholar caste. No more than a single 
Thanhotepic is ever permitted on an expedition 
of the Crown. 

A Thanhotepic may not participate in any ac 
tion that would harm the interests of advancing 
his faith and must strive, even if only by example 
(proselytizing is severely frowned upon by the 
Crown), to gently guide the Charonti people back 
to the righteous path of the Thanhotepic faith. 

A Thanhotepic may not perform raise dead on 
any person whose Constitution would drop below 
10 as a result of being raised; if the spell is at 
tempted in such a case, it will simply fail. 

Magical Abilities: Thanhotepics have major 
access to the spheres of necromantic, elemental, div 
ination, and protection. They have minor access to 
all other spheres. 

Wealth Options: 3d6 x 10 gold pieces. 
Thanhotepics in the city normally make a living 
performing some other function in a guild. A se 
lect few are permitted to study at the College of 
Thought. 

Group: Thanhotepics who are permitted to study 
at the College of Thought are believed to be able to 
offer some insight into the thinking of the ancient 
Charonti, all of whom were devout practitioners of 
the Thanhotepic faith. Ancient Thanhotepic docu 
ments are kept in the Dodecon and studied by stu 
dents of anthropology and history. 


54 • Cmaptsii Threi 


WARMOR KIT 

&UARD1AM 

These warriors are trained in the military com 
mand of undead forces. A guardian's knowledge 
of the art of strategy and tactics is considered 
more important than the individual's skill in 
physical combat. 

Caste: All guardians are scholars at the begin 
ning of their careers. A few have retired from ser 
vice to the Crown and work for guilds now. No 
guardians exist among the outcasts, who use 
priests to control undead. 

Requirements: Strength 12, Constitution 12, 
no evil alignment. 

Role: The guardians are commanders of the 
undead Charonath armies. They are exemplars of 
Charonti ideals and yet the objects of the con 
tempt of many members of the scholar caste. 
They embody the notions of duty and service to 
the nation. It is the guardians, with their undead 
soldiers, who clear the unsettled quarters of the 
cities to make them safe for Charonti. It is they 
who understand how best to array their forces to 
protect an expedition traveling through the Out- 
lands. It is they who must endure the violent and 
bloody campaigns against the Knorr. 

Guardians are rigorously trained in the strat 
egy and tactics of war and how to the command 
and deploy undead troops. They understand how 
to coordinate attacks as well as mount an effec 
tive defense. They are comfortable with using 
magic as a tool and evaluate it strictly in terms of 
its usefulness for their tasks. 

Guardians are known for their fierce devotion 
to the queen. Some philosophers worry this com 
mitment is more to the beloved ruler herself than 
to the ideal of the just society that she represents. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A guardian may be 
come proficient in the use of any weapon. TWo of 
the character's initial proficiency slots must be 
dedicated to learning use of a pole arm and the 
short bow. 

Equipment: They may use any weapons or 
armor. 

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: Bonus; Endurance. 
Recommended: Local History (2), Reading/Writing 
(2), Spellcraft (2), any General except Mining and 
Riding, Airborne (1 slot each). Barred; Blind-fight 
ing. 

Special Benefits; Each guardian is assigned by 
the Crown to the command of two or more serathi 
per experience level. The guardian is responsible 
for the maintenance and repair of his troops, and 


if one is destroyed it is not replaced unless the de 
struction was the result of necessary combat. 

As do all characters, guardians use the magi 
cal artifacts shards of control (see Chapter Five and 
Six) to direct their Charonath. Most characters 
can only control one Charonath per level. Because 
of their training, however, guardians have no limit 
to the number of Charonath they may control. 
Any number of undead may be placed in the 
charge of a single guardian in an emergency situ 
ation. 

Guardians can coordinate the attacks of un 
dead in such a way that they are more effective in 
combat. A guardian has a radius of command that 
reaches 10 yards per experience level. Any undead 
controlled by a guardian and fighting within this 
radius gain +1 bonus to their attack rolls and 
Armor Class. 

A guardian may orchestrate the attacks of 
serathi within his command radius, so that any 
round following one in which no zombie attacked, 
the serathi may use the guardian's initiative roll 
rather than acting last the next round. 

Special Hindrances: Guardians are trained 
first in strategy and less in personal combat skills. 
As such, they may not specialize in the use of any 
weapon. 

Guardians who join the guildsman caste lose 
command of the Crown's Charonath and must 
purchase their serathi in the marketplaces. 

Magical Abilities: A guardian may use magical 
items normally available to warriors. 

A guardian who has the read magic non 
weapon proficiency may use scrolls of priest 
spells at 8th level and scrolls of wizard spells at 
10th level, with a 25% chance of failure whenever 
this ability is employed. 

Wealth Options: 5d4 x 10 gold pieces. 

Group: Guardians begin their officer training 
immediately after leaving the Children's School, 
when other students either return home or con 
tinue into Open School. The School of the 
Guardians provides training in philosophy, strat 
egy, tactics, and operation logistics. 

Guardians who leave the service of the queen 
are highly sought after by guild leaders for escort 
ing expeditions into the Outlands. 


Creatiho Ckjuuvcters • 52 




Each hero 
will be a 
ber of a particu 
lar caste, and it 
is likely that an 
venturing will be made up 
of members of the same caste. 


The Ckaronti 
Caste System 

This section provides mechanics for running 
characters from the different Charonti castes, 
plus descriptions of how the various character 
^es in each caste view one another. This mater 
ial is intended to provide a basis for role-playing, 
in conjunction with what was already said about 
each of the castes in Chapter TWo. 

The Charonti caste system allows each individ 
ual to pursue the calling in life to which he or she is 
best suited. Simultaneously, the society's hereditary 
tradition allows citizens to retain and extend the 
learning of their ancestors and thus contribute to 
the growing body of knowledge that serves as the 
foundation of Charonti culture. The caste system is 
designed to allow the wisest members of society to 
rule for the benefit of all. It frees the most intelli 
gent to assist in the recovery of lost magic and ded 
icate themselves to new research. It enables those 
with talents for trades and crafts to dedicate them 
selves to their vocations without distraction. 


58 • CHAvnu Eovn 


The Scholar 
Caste 


s 

ter will 

help players prepare their 
characters for their role in the 
Charonti reconstruction. It details 
the Charonti caste system and de 
scribes how citizens view them 
selves and one another in order to 
provide a basis for role-playing. It de 
scribes how Charonti adventuring parties 
are assembled, as well as the resources and 
responsibilities that go along with them, pro 
vides rules for mentors and character advance 
ment, and reviews the Charonti justice system. 


Scholars comprise the ruling class, but live 
spartanly in comparison to guildsmen and are 
not permitted to accumulate material wealth. 

A scholar is provided with a small cell with 
a single bed and chest in the dormitory of his col 
lege or in the palace (if he works directly for the 
queen). Meals are served twice a day in a common 
dining room within the institution to which the 
character is tied. Characters who miss a meal 
must fend for themselves. Food cannot be taken 
ft'om the dining room. 




















'' az: 




Y\-<s \ 







If'iKSI"-11^3SP^ - 

. willno^alty 

V Wj^ ^===- have a mentor to 
''mm% E provide guidance 

and training (for level 
avancement) at no cost to 
^ the character. Mentors are 

described in more detail later in 
this chapter. 

wizard scholars are not required to 
pay for materials when conducting spell 
research, and also need not pay for common 
spell components so long as the casting of 
the spell is approved by the character's mentor. 

A scholar must donate any money he acquires 
to his college or to the Crown. He may purchase 
resources for the parent institution that he will 
personally use, if such action is approved by his 
mentor. For example, if a porter wants to buy ma 
terials to make a teleportation gate, the charac 
ter's mentor must approve the purchase. The 
character may use the gate himself, depending on 
the approval of his mentor, although it is techni 
cally the property of the college. 

A scholar may have only a limited number of 
personal effects-never more than what is re 
quired for basic personal hygiene (such as toi 
letries and several changes of clothing). Wizards, 
of course, are allowed to own spell books. 

The player of a scholar hero may choose 
whether the character came from a scholar fam 
ily or was bom to a guildsman family and trans 
ferred to the scholar caste because of ability 
displayed as a child. 






Societal 

RELATIONS 

Charonti society is dominated by social castes 
and the distinct roles they fill. Though the 
Crown has declared all Guilds on equal standing 
with the scholars of the Colleges of Wizardry, in 
fact there exists a hierarchy of preferential treat 
ment. Further, among the colleges of the Ad- 
dakainen there exists opposition that can affect 
how one wizard is treated by another. Character 
classes are also part of this social rating, though 
their relative importance varies based on the 
caste one belongs to. This ranking is listed in 
order of most important to least. 

Caste Ranking in Order of Importance 

1) The Crown (Wizard-Priest-Rogue-Warrior) 

2) Scholars (Wizard-Priest-Rogue-Warrior) 

3) Guildsmen 

(Rogue-Wizard-Warrior-Priest-Unskilled) 

4) Outcasts 

(Wizard-Rogue-Warrior-Priest-Unskilled) 

5) Strangers 

(Warrior-Priest-Wizard-Rogue-Unskilled) 

6) Knorr 

(Warrior-Priest-Rogue-Unskilled-Wizard) 

The Crown views all wizards as important 
and takes care not to give greater importance 
to any one college. Privately, the Crown favors 
the College of Enchantment highly and treats 
Dilettantes as the least important. The colleges, 
their related specialist wizards, and their oppo 
sitions are; 

College of.. Specialist Mage Opposition 

Abjuration (Wardens) Alteration 

Alteration (Porters) Abjuration 

Conjuration (Shadow Mages) Divination 

Divination 


(Finders) 


Enchantment (Artificers) 
Illusion (Sandmen) 

Invocation (Galvanists) 
Necromancy (Renders) 


Conjuration 

Invocation 

Necromancy 

Enchantment 

Illusion 


Finally, the Crown and society rank priest, 
rogue, and warrior roles in the following order; 


Pnests; 

Jurist 

Philosopher 

Thanhotepic 

Pantheist 

Cultist 


Rogues: 

Guildsman 

Scribe 

Chirurgeon 

Companion 

Bandit 


Warriors: 

Guardian 

Weaponmaster 

Weaponsmith 

Outcast 

Barbarian 


PIAYINO CKARONTI • 59 







The 

Gvildskan 

Caste 

While the scholar caste enjoys prestige and re 
spect, not all Charonti find such a meager and es 
oteric life to be appealing. Many tradesmen come 
from families with long respected traditions in 
their craft. They take tremendous pride in their 
work and heritage, and would view the aspira 
tions of a child to join the scholars to be selfish 
and disrespectful of the family legacy. On the 
other hand, having a child in a prestigious gov 
ernment position, or in the Addakainen, certainly 
reflects well upon the family. Members of the 
guildsman caste adhere to the axiom that people 
are happiest when they are doing what they do 
best, and they believe that most people are best 
suited to carry on the work of their parents. 

If a character joins a guild, that organization 
will pay the expense of outfitting the character for 
expeditions in exchange for 90% of all items re 
covered that are not retained by the Crown. 
Bonuses and salary may be negotiated on top of 
this. 

A guildsman may live in the compound of his 
lineage and need not worry about the expenses of 
room and board while living inCivil Centers. 

Any member of a guild will normally have a 
master to provide training and guidance. 

Wizard guildsmen are not required to pay for 
materials when conducting spell research, and 
also need not pay for common spell components 
so long as the spell to be researched or cast is 
meant to be used for the benefit of the guild. 

A guildsman player character has access to 
one Charonath that belongs to his family. (The 
family may own more than one, but the character 
can only control one at a time.) If the Charonath 
is destroyed, it may only be replaced by buying a 
new one, having one created, or being given one 
as a gift. 

Guildsmen may amass wealth freely, re 
stricted only by the Charonti custom that no per 
son should live better than the lineage from 
which he or she comes. To hoard one's money to 
oneself is seen as venal and undutiful. The per 
centage of a guildsman's earnings that should be 
contributed to the assets of the lineage depends 
upon the size of the family. To determine this, the 
player of a guildsman character (or the DM, for a 
non-player character) should roll IdlO when the 
character is created. The result is the number of 
immediate family members including the charac 
ter, and the amount of personal income the char 


acter may retain is equal to 1 divided by that 
number. A result of 1 means the character has no 
family and may retain all income. A result of 5 
means that the family consists of 4 other mem 
bers, and the guildsman may keep one-fifth of the 
income he or she earns. (Note that most families 
have more than one member who earns an in 
come, so a guildsman character usually also re 
ceives a portion of other people's earnings as 
well.) 

The Outcasts 

The humans who live in the Outlands are in gen 
eral terms a caste unto themselves, although they 
perform no function in Charonti society and in 
fact are not regarded as Charonti by citizens of 
the queen. It is illegal for a citizen to conduct 
trade or exchange information with an outcast. 
But, some Charonti do take the chance if the 
prospect of gain is great enough-and on rare oc 
casions the queen's enforcers have been known to 
look the other way when such an arrangement 
yields a benefit to the Crown. 

Outcasts may not enter the settled quarters of 
the cities. Those of good or neutral alignment are 
welcome to join the civil community if they are 
willing to swear fealty to the queen (enforced by a 
geas) and are willing to be assigned a function 
within the society by a jurist. 

Evil outcasts are not permitted to join the 
queen's people under any circumstances. Over 
the years, the population of the Outlands has be 
come increasingly more evil as those of non-evil 
alignment have migrated to the safety and pros 
perity of the Civil Centers. In the Outlands at pre 
sent, the only good-aligned communities of 
which the Crown is aware are religious enclaves 
of cultists or Thanhotepics; a few other non-evil 
eccentrics and individualists exist here and there, 
but they are difficult to find. 

The culture of the Outlands is anarchic: The 
strong and stealthy have the best chance of sur 
viving. To most outcasts, the world of the queen's 
city is a remote and distant realm of power and 
plenty, one unrelated to their own hard existence. 

An outcast has no special resources. Each one 
makes a living in any way possible that is related 
to his profession. A dilettante might be the leader 
of a group of thieves or in the employ of a bandit 
lord. A chirurgeon can, in this land of mayhem 
and turmoil, almost always find someone willing 
to pay for his services. A Thanhotepic, a cultist, or 
a pantheist survives through the combination of 
his combat ability and spellcasting power. 


40 • Chapter Four 



Role-Playihg 
THE Castes 

The kit descriptions in Chapter Three explain how 
the various types of Charonti characters view 
themselves. This section is intended to provide a 
guideline for how characters and NPCs within 
Charonti society might view one another. These 
are not strict rules, but rather information pre 
sented to convey the flavor of Charonti life. 

SCHOlAlt PRIESTS 

Most Charonti priests are members of the scholar 
caste. These individuals are expected to embody 
stoic Charonti ideals as well as a commitment to 
wisdom above all things. Those with more worldly 
aspirations will bridle at the constraints of a 
scholar's life and usually leave the caste to pursue 
a life among the guildsmen. 

View of other scholars; Scholar priests generally 
look upon other scholars somewhat critically. 
They think that all scholars, as the custodians of 
Charonti society, should be held to rigorous moral 
standards. They worry that the wizards are overly 
concerned with political machinations and too 
easily tempted by worldly ambition and do not 
devote themselves strongly enough to their labo 
ratories and libraries. They see the scribes as du 
tiful and devoted to the public interest, but 
sometimes inappropriately enamored of prestige 
and career. They tend to romanticize the 
guardians as ideal Charonti who dutifully serve 
the public interest without apparent complaint or 
unseemly ambition. 

View of guildsmen: The attitude of scholar 
priests toward the guildsman caste is benign good 
will. They think it is proper and just that each per 
son is diligently pursuing the task to which he is 
best suited. They believe that not every person is 
necessarily motivated by the loftiest ideals, and 
that material comfort is a less ignoble goal than 
the desire for worldly power that sometimes in 
fects members of the scholar caste. 

View of outcasts; Scholar priests make various 
judgments about outcasts, depending on the 
priest's profession and concerns. Philosophers 
consider outcasts to be unfortunate souls who 
will one day have the good fortune of living under 
the queen's protection. Jurists concern them 
selves with outcasts not at all, since they are not 
citizens. The attitude of other priests ranges from 
thinking of outcasts as potential followers (if they 
can be induced to come into the Civil Centers) to 
considering them a subhuman form of life that 
has no hope of salvation. 


ScHoiAR Wizards 

These characters are expected to dedicate them 
selves to recovering the lost magic and technol 
ogy of the ancient Charonti and to devote 
themselves to new magical research. While the 
scholar wizards maintain an outward display of 
material modesty and live in spartan quarters like 
the other scholars, the Colleges of Wizardry are 
well funded and replete with the comforts of the 
magical arts. The resources required for study and 
research are available to those who have proven 
themselves. 

The most intelligent wizards are appointed to 
the queen's council. Since their founding by the 
magelords of old, the colleges have remained 
tightly knit and often secretive organizations with 
their own intricate political agendas. Wizards, 
rightly or wrongly, often see themselves as the 
force that drives Charonti society. 

View of other scholars; Scholar wizards often 
see members of other schools as rivals and are 
wary of their hidden agendas. They respect 
priests but defer to them only as duty requires, 
tending to see them as having their heads in the 
clouds. They view the scribes as minor func 
tionaries who have the ability to make life either 
much easier or incredibly frustrating for them. 
They tend to look at guardians with either pity or 
the contempt reserved for illiterates engaged in 
manual labor. 

View of guildsmen: Wizards of the scholar caste 
tend to be rather indifferent to the Charonti 
guildsmen. They may have little day-to-day inter 
action with guildsmen, and as such tend to think 
of "the people" in a benign, abstract sort of way. 
Scholar wizards who come from guild families 
may feel either pride or contempt for the guilds 
man caste, often depending upon the support or 
encouragement they received from their families. 

View of outcasts: Scholar wizards tend not to 
think of outcasts at all, except for the would-be 
magelords, whom they see as looters of valuable 
magic from the ruins. 

SCKOZAR ROOUES 

The only scholar rogues are the scribes. Most 
guildsmen's only direct experiences with the gov 
ernment will be through the Jurists and the 
scribes. Thus, the scribes feel they are truly the 
representation of the queen in the lives of the 
Charonti people. They are pragmatists who trans 
late the queen's will into action that defines the 
nature of daily life in the Charonti nation. 

View of other scholars; Scribes profoundly re 
spect philosophers, because they see themselves 
as the vehicles through which the philosophers' 
vision of the just society is implemented. They 


Playino Cxaaomti • 6i 



consider wizards to be somewhat self-important 
technicians who little understand the practical 
implications of what they do and suffer from the 
common vanity of the intelligent, thinking that 
they know how others should go about their 
work. Scribes are respectful, if somewhat leery, of 
guardians, whom they see as rough but dedicated 
professionals who attend to the dangerous and 
distasteful tasks of nation building. 

Vieu; of guildsmen: Ideally, scribes view them 
selves as servants of the Charonti people and be 
have accordingly. Naturally, there is a tendency in 
many to see the guildsmen as somewhat com 
mon. Some scribes succumb to a feeling of pride 
regarding their own devotion to the state, and 
view the guildsmen as greedy or stupid. 

View of outcasts: Scribes see outcasts as unciv 
ilized unfortunates who are a potential danger to 
the enterprises of the Crown. 

Scholar warriors 

The guardians are the protectors of Charonti soci 
ety. They must be physically strong, courageous, 
and trained in war. However, their aggression 
must only be directed toward the enemies of the 
Charonti. They must know when to attack and 
when to avoid conflict. For this reason, they must 
be trained to discriminate, and to discern truth in 
ambiguous circumstances so that they may use 
their force judiciously. They must, like philoso 
phers, love wisdom and truth. They must have the 
wisdom to use force appropriately. It is upon 
them that the most grave and unpleasant of tasks 
will fall; the task of taking lives so that the nation 
may live. 

View of other scholars; The guardians are pas 
sionately devoted to the queen. They believe that 
the queen embodies the ideals of the just society 
and that her detractors, or even those who mildly 
disagree with her, are just a nuisance. They re 
spect philosophers, but think that undisciplined 
speculation can lead a person away from com 
mon sense. They see the wizards as grasping and 
a potential threat to the future of the Charonti na 
tion. They trust in the wisdom of the queen, how 
ever, to keep the wizards in check. They never 
forget that the Colleges of Wizardry were founded 
by wizards who once sought to rule Jakandor 
themselves. They view scribes as annoyingly fas 
tidious and slow to respond in a crisis, but neces 
sary and dutiful to the Crown. 

View of guildsmen; The guardians believe that 
the queen loves the guildsmen and that protect 
ing these people is one of the most important jobs 
a guardian can have. They tend to respect the 
guildsmen more than other scholars do because 
of the guildsmen's honest devotion to their work. 
At a certain level the guardians see themselves 


also as simple tradesmen-albeit simple trades 
men with a grave responsibility. 

View of outcasts; Guardians look upon outcasts 
as the lost and the mad who must, when necessary, 
be put down for the safety of the Charonti nation. 

OVILD PRISSTS 

Cultists, pantheists, and Thanhotepics are the 
types of priests found among the guildsmen. They 
may be continuing a religious tradition of their 
family, or may have simply found the scholarly 
climate of the Addakainen inhospitable to their 
beliefs. Note that some guild clerics may have 
never attended the Addakainen. Religious fami 
lies occasionally maintain a tradition that at least 
one member of every generation should enter the 
priesthood. Guild priests spend their days practic 
ing a craft or trade, keeping their religious devo 
tions as a part of their private life. 

View 0 /other guildsmen; Guild priests see other 
guildsmen generally as they see themselves-du 
tiful Charonti who are doing their best to perform 
a task for which they are suited. They may en 
courage other people to adopt the values of their 
faith, but tend to do so through example rather 
than prosel 3 rtizing. 

View of scholars; Guild priests have varying 
views of the scholar caste, depending upon their 
personal experiences. Some characters are envi 
ous of those who have the opportunity to fully 
dedicate themselves to meditation and reflection; 
others are scornful of the scholars, whom they 
see as power-seeking political hacks. 

OUILD WIZARDS 

Practitioners of wizardly magic can always find 
work among the guilds. Some guilds even provide 
apprenticeships to teach practical spellcasting to 
young apprentices and to avoid losing a profitable 
source of revenue to the Addakainen. However, a 
Jurist will occasionally instruct a wizard to leave a 
guild and serve the Crown. Most guild wizards 
were either apprenticed to a spell-caster within 
their family or a guild, or left the Addakainen in 
search of a more profitable lifestyle. A few joined 
the guildsman caste in the belief that they better 
serve the community with the more practical ap 
plications of magic that are pursued within the 
guilds, as opposed to the backward-looking and 
esoteric work of the spell schools. 

Most guild wizards are artificers who super 
vise the manufacture of common magic items 
that are then put up for sale. However, all wizards 
can find ready work providing competitive advan 
tages to a business enterprise. Wizards only rarely 
are in charge of guilds, however, since they are 
more disposed to focus on the items of manufac- 


68 • Chaptir f ovr 



ture, rather than on their distribution and sale. 

Most guild wizards do not create new magical 
items, but simply repeat the basic spells that have 
been the foundation of their guild's livelihood for 
generations. They do not often change their affil 
iation from one guild to another, because such be 
havior is seen as disloyal to one's relatives or 
patrons. On the other hand, among guildsmen of 
all types, gold sometimes pulls strong enough to 
break family ties. 

View of other guildsmen: Guild wizards often 
engage in friendly or fierce rivalries with the wiz 
ards of other guilds, whom they respect because 
of their professional kinship. They see themselves 
collectively as the true force behind the prosper 
ity and growth of Charonti society, since the daily 
comforts and accoutrements of life are all product 
of the guild wizards' handiwork. They consider 
other guildsmen as the outlet for their wares-the 
"mass market" whose tastes and preferences can 
make or break a wizard's career. 

View 0 /scholars; Many guild wizards harbor re 
sentment toward the wizards of the colleges for 
various reasons. Some feel that the scholars are 
undeserving of their prestige because their work 
is impractical and does little to improve the real 
lives of the Charonti people. Some feel inadequate 
since it is generally assumed by the populace, 
rightly or wrongly, that the wizards of the spell 
schools are the nation's most accomplished and 
most learned. Some (generally the more success 
ful ones) are disdainful, dismissing the scholar 
mages as academics who keep their noses buried 
in ancient spell texts rather than engaging in cre 
ative work or practical innovations. 

As for the rest of the members of the scholar 
caste, guild wizards are likely to have interaction 
with only Jurists and scribes. They generally have 
profound respect for Jurists, whose rulings can be 
critical to their livelihoods, and each wizard re 
acts to scribes individually based upon his per 
sonal experience with the bureaucracy. 

OUILD ROOUtS 

Nearly all Charonti are guildsmen, and nearly all 
guildsmen are rogues. They are tradesmen, mer 
chants, and craftsmen who work in family shops 
or guild halls continuing the livelihood of their 
lineage. The most influential citizens, guildmas- 
ters, and merchants are all rogues. Likewise, the 
poorest farmers are also guild rogues. Most guild 
rogues have spent a few years in their youth at 
the Addakainen in order to learn to read magic 
and write, as well as to perform basic calculations 
that could later be applied to bookkeeping. The 
guilds also provide education for young appren 
tices, but train them strictly to perform tasks re 
quired in the guild. 


View of other guildsmen: Guild rogues tend to 
see guild wizards as crafty mechanics and inven 
tors who can help improve processes and prod 
ucts made by the guild. They believe that they are, 
however, a little lacking in common sense, and 
need the assistance of rogues to direct their en 
ergy and keep them in touch with the man on the 
street. 

Since guild clerics almost always work at 
some trade or craft within the guild and keep 
their faith a part of their private life, guild rogues 
may have great respect for them or may view 
them as eccentrics, depending upon the individ 
ual. As a rule, the common Charonti are either 
dismissive of devotion to supernatural powers, or 
vaguely superstitious and fearful of such beliefs. 

Guild rogues see other guild rogues (who are 
not direct competitors) as they see themselves: 
fine and dutiful Charonti. 

View of scholars: Of the various opinions guild 
rogues hold of the scholar caste, the most com 
mon is simple trust and respect. Some guild 
rogues are in awe of the scholars, while a very few 
hold them in contempt. The queen is enormously 
popular with the people, and the rogues cannot 
help but feel that they live in the most wisely 
ruled nation in the history of the world. They 
plainly feel her adoration of them, and return it in 
full. Some guildsmen may distrust the Colleges of 
Wizardry, feeling that they distract the queen 
with their petty bickering, but for the most part 
such distrust is tempered with fear and respect. 

Guild warriors 

For practical purposes, there are no guild war 
riors. However, in rare circumstances a guardian 
may leave the service of the Crown to return to 
civilian life. This normally only occurs in an emer 
gency, such as when a parent becomes extremely 
ill and requires assistance. When a guardian 
leaves the service, he generally does so only tem 
porarily, but if the leave is permanent, the 
guardian loses his civil authority. A guardian 
could earn a living in a guild by instructing un 
dead laborers and accompanying guild ventures 
into the Outlands. 

View of other guildsmen; Guardians never lose 
the values that are instilled firom the beginning of 
their education. They remain fiercely devoted to 
defending the miracle of Charonti society. They 
continue to see themselves as servants of Ae just 
nation. They view other guildsmen as good people 
who have been entrusted to their care. 

View of scholars: Guild warriors look upon 
scholars with dutiful respect. They do, however, 
retain their suspicion of those who seek power 
and influence or do not display adequate defer 
ence to the will of the queen. 


PIAYINO CKJUIOMTI • 63 


KOW C-VILDSKSN VI£W 
OUTCASTS 

Since they spend their entire lives within the se 
curity and safety of the Civil Centers, most guilds- 
men tend not to think of the outcasts at all. Some 
ambitious and unscrupulous guildsmen see them 
as a potential opportunity for trade or for hiring 
as mercenaries to collect raw materials for the 
guild. 

Outcast priests 

Almost all outcast priests are cultists or Than- 
hotepics, with a small number of pantheists also 
living in the Outlands. Some such characters may 
serve as the religious leaders of small communi 
ties, and may even develop a network of followers 
that extends to a number of small settlements. 
Other priests, particularly pantheists, may dwell 
in isolation. Some outcast priests will ally with 
other priests or make enemies of those they con 
sider heretics. Occasionally the queen will send a 
mission into the wilderness to disperse a Than- 
hotepic or cultist community that may be endan 
gering the safety of the Charonti nation by 
wantonly attracting the attention of supernatural 
powers. 

View of the ciuil Charonti; Outcast Thanhotepics 
generally see the citizens of the queen as mis 
guided souls who in their pride and folly have re 
jected their creator. Their feelings for the civil 
Charonti may vary between pity and contempt. 
Some consider the queen a force of evil who must 
be destroyed, while others see her as the head of 
a nation of lost sheep that will one day be brought 
back into the fold, when Thanhotep wills it. 

Outcast cultists and pantheists have, in effect, 
as many different view of the civil Charonti as 
there are characters of those types. Each individ 
ual's outlook depends upon his personal beliefs 
and experiences. 

View of other outcasts: The priests of the Out 
lands consider other outcasts to be either poten 
tial converts or potential threats. Even though not 
every faith, including Thanhotepism, has a mis 
sionary nature, most outcast priests practice their 
professions in the hope that others will be drawn 
to them by the wisdom of their beliefs. 

Outcast wizards 

Most wizards of the Outlands have grown up 
under the apprenticeship of another outcast 
spell-caster. A few brilliant individuals have pur 
sued magical study independently by simply 
scouring the ruins. This haphazard approach, 
however, usually results only in a superficial level 


of mastery in the arcane arts. Then again, one 
never knows what might be found in the ruins; 
many outcast wizards make repeated forays into 
elder sites, hoping against hope that they will dis 
cover a lost form of magic that will enable them to 
rise to a position of power over all others. 

No matter how they learned their craft, all 
outcast wizards are dilettantes and can never be 
come specialists unless they leave the Outlands 
and swear allegiance to the queen (in which case 
they cease to be outcasts). 

View of the civil Charonti; Almost all the wizards 
of the Outlands belong to one of two general 
types. The majority are would-be magelords who 
aspire to rule their own petty kingdoms. These 
characters view the Crown as a potential threat 
that must be fortified against until an inevitable 
conflict comes. Those with particularly grand 
ideas may actually attempt to engage the forces 
of the queen themselves. 

The second most common type of wizard in 
the Outlands is the village mage who was raised 
among Outlanders, and perhaps for religious or 
personal reasons considers the Outlands home. 
These characters tend to regard the scholars of 
the Crown as remote powers who need only be 
considered if they happen to show up. 

View of other outcasts: The petty magelords 
look upon other outcasts either as potential allies 
or potential subjects. Less ambitious wizards 
react cautiously toward any other outcasts, realiz 
ing that even their friends could turn on them at 
any time. In the Outlands it is best to be conserv 
ative and careful. 

Outcast roovss 

These characters are the unlucky and the eccen 
tric individualists who for one reason or another 
have not gravitated to the queen's realm. A 
rogue's motive for remaining in the Outlands may 
spring from the opportunities for personal wealth 
and power available to a bandit leader, or may 
simply be grounded in an attachment to friends 
and family. Some outcast rogues are simply evil 
and have no hope of gaining citizenship. 

Most Outlanders are rogues, for the simple 
reason that stealth and resourcefulness are nec 
essary to survive the hazards of those regions. 
Rogues may form into raiding bands, or simply 
band together to create a farming village. A few 
rogue communities exist that blame magic use for 
the collapse of the once great Charonti empire. 
They avoid all magic and consider any spell- 
caster a plague-bearer. 

View of the ciuil Charonti: Outcast rogues see 
the queen's domain as either a place of respite 
where they hope one day to live, or as the home of 
the one consistent armed force that can present 


64 • Ckaptsk Four 



an obstacle to a would-be bandit leader. Thus, 
only the foolish or the arrogant dare to prey upon 
adventuring parties of the queen. It is not un 
known for avaricious merchants from the cities to 
trade illegally with outcast villages while ostensi 
bly conducting investigations of ruins. These mer 
chants can prove to be either excellent trading 
partners with access to the luxuries of the cities, 
or easy prey for banditry, since the merchants 
cannot complain to the Crown if they have been 
attacked while consorting with outlaws instead of 
exploring the ruins. 

Vieio of other outcasts; As varied as the rogues 
themselves. Other Outlanders make up the 
friends, neighbors, predators, and prey of the out 
cast rogues. 

Outcast waraiors 

There are no warrior outcasts. No guardian has 
ever left the nation, and no outcast has ever man 
aged to cultivate a great enough skill with 
weapons to begin a warrior tradition in the Out- 
lands. 


The Status or the 
Umdead 

There are far more undead than living Charonti in 
the Civil Centers. The Charonath are viewed as a 
natural part of the cycle of life. People regard 
them as they would beasts of burden or useful 
machines. They may be entirely indifferent to 
them, or may develop a vague sense of affection 
for one or more individuals. 

In the Outlands, where Thanhotepic tradi 
tions are stronger, the undead are regarded with 
slightly more reverence. They are, after all, one's 
ancestors. However, it is also in the Outlands 
where free-willed undead occasionally emerge 
from a long-forgotten temple and wreak havoc on 
the surrounding population. For this reason Out 
landers tend to regard unfamiliar undead with 
some apprehension. These feelings do not extend 
to undead that accompany Crown expeditions 
and adventuring parties, for it is assumed they 
will be kept under control. 









Ckaronti 

Ideal 

OE DUTY AND 

Justice 

The Charonti people are the survivors of a great 
civilization that was very nearly erased from his 
tory. They have, after thousands of years, finally . 
begun the slow climb back to their former great 
ness. Every dutiful Charonti citizen is personally 
engaged in helping to carry forward the torch of 
civilization. They are the light-bringers returning 
to a world of darkness. 

The Charonti embrace a traditional notion of 
duty, placing the needs of the community and the 
nation before one's personal desires. Society takes 
a dim view of individualists who cannot temper 
their desires with reason, for it is clear that only 
reason will allow justice to prevail and only jus 
tice will carry the Charonti once again to a posi 
tion of preeminence in the world. The Charonti 
ideal of duty is embodied in a complex system of 
etiquette that guides people through daily life. 


Social Standiho and 

STIOVETTE 

The Charonti caste system does not describe a hi 
erarchy of privilege, but it does establish a ranking 
of prestige. Each profession in Charonti society is 
listed below in order of social standing, from the 
most prestigious to the least. 

1. Philosopher 

2. Jurist 

3. Any Scholar Wizard 

4. Scribe 

5. Guardian 

6. Any Guild Wizard 

7. Guildsman 

8. Cultist/Pantheist/Thanhotepic 

9. Chirurgeon 

10. Companion 

11. Former outcast 

Charonti of extraordinary character and abil 
ity may gain more respect than most other people 
of their profession; however, the formal order is 
still used to determine and govern the standards 
of dutiful behavior. 

All outcasts have no social standing. "Former 
outcast" on the list above refers to someone who 
comes in from the Outlands to join the service of 
the Crown. Such a character will only gain the 
prestige afforded to other members of his profes 
sion after ld4 months, during which time the 
newcomer is expected to defer to all other civil 
Charonti while he learns the codes of proper con 
duct. 

The following rules of etiquette are observed 
in daily life: 

Characters of the same profession are deferred to 
in order of descending age. 

It is impolite to interrupt the thoughts or the con 
versation of a person of higher social standing. When 
seeking the attention of a social superior, one should 
never speak outright, but rather present oneself silently 
be/ore the individual and wait until recognized. In an 
emergency it may be necessary to overlook this nicety. 

It is considered impudent to give orders to a social 
superior. It is, however, appropriate to make a request 
in the form of a respectful question. Thus, rather thon 
saying, "Open the door," one might say instead, "Would 
it please you to open the door?" 

It behooves people to respect and protect the tran 
quility of social superiors. One should not allow a su 
perior to be needlessly distracted by a person inferior to 
oneself. 


66 • Chaptsr Four 










Ckaronti 

PARtY 

COHSTRVCTION 

The Charonti have gained considerable expertise 
in organizing missions to explore beyond the 
walls of the Civil Centers. The text below de 
scribes the types of Crown expeditions and how 
they are mustered as well as the various positions 
within a Crown party. Following this, the rules of 
engagement that prescribe behavior on a mission 
and the resources available to a party are given, 
and the differences between Crown expeditions 
and private expeditions sponsored by the colleges 
or the guilds are reviewed. 

Crown Expeditions 

The Crown sponsors two types of missions: expe 
ditions of exploration and recovery, and expedi 
tions of security. 

An expedition of exploration and recovery 
usually involves a journey into the ruins, either a 
site that has been previously explored or one that 
has been newly discovered. The goal may be gen 
eral information-gathering and recovery of what 
ever useful items are found, or the explorers may 
be charged with locating and recovering a specific 
item that has been described in one of the elder 
texts. Such an expedition may also be launched to 
investigate an unusual occurrence that have been 
reported from the Outlands. 

An expedition of security is intended either to 
make an area safe for settlement or to remove a 
specific threat to Charonti welfare. These mis 
sions tend to be more military in nature and can 
include the clearing of unsettled quarters for 
settlement by civil Charonti; elimination of dan 
gerous outcast enclaves; expeditions against the 
Knorr; and the securing of permanent encamp 
ments within the ruins or mines. 

For either type of expedition, a party is assem 
bled at the direction of the Crown; a high-ranking 
scribe selects members from the various colleges 
and departments of the government. The mentors 
of the party members form a supervisory commit 
tee that instructs the party before its departure and 
debriefs the group upon its return. Crown expedi 
tions are always commissioned with a specific ob 
jective in mind, whether it is the recovery of a 
fabled scroll from deep within a lost city, or simply 
collecting samples of vegetation along the north 
ern coast. A deadline for completion of the mission 
is normally set before departure. A Crown party is 
given or sometimes allowed to choose a name by 
which it will be referred to in official records. 


Positions in a Crown 

EXPSOITION 

Every Crown expedition requires the presence of 
certain functionaries who are expected to per 
form particular tasks. 

The first three positions described in the fol 
lowing text are mandatory; every Crown expedi 
tion must contain a single leader, at least one 
scout, and at least one recorder, all of whom must 
be different individuals. (If player characters do 
not fill all the mandatory positions, one or more 
NPCs must be assigned to flesh out tiie party.) The 
remaining positions are not mandatory, but some 
of them are often necessary depending on the 
size, makeup, and goal of the expedition. 

Leader: This individual is often, but not al 
ways, the most experienced adventurer in the 
group. The leader may be a researcher whose 
work the mission is intended to advance, the per 
son in the group with the most wisdom, or the 
one who is most skilled at getting people to work 
together. Once the scribe has selected the party 
members, designation of the party leader is nor 
mally the function of a consulting philosopher or 
Jurist who understands the goals and objectives 
of the mission as well the character and experi 
ence of the participants. Other party members 
must pledge to obey the leader, and of coure it is 
understood that the leader will make no deci 
sions that are not in the best interest of the group 
as a whole. 

Scout: Finders are often designated to be 
scouts, since much of their magic is suited for 
performing reconnaissance functions. Occasion 
ally, former outcast bandits are used as scouts to 
guide a party through sections of the Outlands. 
Guardians are occasionally used in this capacity. 

Recorder: The Charonti are studious about 
keeping records of their accomplishments and 
progress. Even small clandestine expeditions are 
not undertaken without some assurance that the 
activity will be documented. Sandmen are often 
designated as recorders, and occasionally scribes 
perform this function. 

Quartermaster: A scribe, or sometimes a 
guardian, is usually assigned to a party to arrange 
for provisions, work out the logistics of launching 
the expedition, and keep track of resources while 
the party is in the wilderness. Generally, only very 
small expeditions (four characters or less) can get 
along without a quartermaster. 

Escort; One or more wardens are normally as 
signed to a party when an object or individual of 
extreme value is to be transported, or if the goal 
of the expedition is to recover a rare or valuable 
item. Guardians occasionally serve in this capac 
ity, and in some circumstances a porter will be 


PlAYIHO CKAROHTI • 6Z 


Experismce bonuses 6 
restrictions 

• +10% XP 

If character possesses a score of 16 or 
higher in at least one prime requisite. A 
prime requisite is any ability cited under 
"Requirements" of a character kit de 
scription, or the prime requisite of the 
basic character class for that kit (warrior 
= Strength, rogue = Dexterity, priest = 
Wisdom, and wizard = Intelligence). 

• 200 XP/level 

Experience is awarded per spell level for 
any ancient spell discovered for the first 
time that is found in the ruins, or 100 XP 
per spell level if the spell is one that is al 
ready known to the Charonti.The experi 
ence is only gained when an individual 
turns over the spell to a jurist at the gate 
of a civil center. 

• +10% XP 

Experience is awarded if an encounter in 
which violence is begun by the other 
party is resolved peacefully. 

• +20% XP 

Experience is awarded for the capture of 
any rare or very rare creature (as op 
posed to common or uncommon crea 
tures listed on the DM's encounter 
charts) or non-Charonti sentient life 
form that is returned to the civil center 
for study in the menagerie of the Dode- 
con. 

• 1,000 XP/level 

Experience is awarded per spell level for 
a wizard who successfully researches a 
new spell and registers it in the Dodecon. 

• -100 XP 

Experience is lost for any conscious 
breach of etiquette. 

•No XP 

No experience is awarded for killing an 
other Charonti citizen. (Note that out 
casts are not citizens.) 

• Loss of XP 

Each party member loses XP equal to the 
gold piece value of any non-perishable 
items provided to an expedition and lost 
during an adventure. This includes 
Charonath, sedan chairs, wagons, 
weapons, magical items, and so forth. 
Use of perishable items such as food, 
water, spell scrolls, and charges in a 
wand (but not the wand itself) do not pe 
nalize the characters. 


used as an escort because of the character's abil 
ity to quickly escape danger. 

Charonath Handler: Renders and priests may 
be assigned to an expedition to cope with un 
dead-not the ones that might accompany a 
party, but rather those that may require subdual 
in the field. Handlers are usually part of any ex 
pedition that plans to descend into ruins that 
could include a Thanhotepic temple, where free- 
willed undead tend to roam. 

Porter; This team member (almost always a 
porter, for obvious reasons) is responsible for es 
tablishing a home gate (see the new magic items 
at the end of Chapter Six) away from the explo 
ration site if necessary. 

Curator; This person is responsible for physi 
cally extruding objects from a site as well as se 
lecting the items for recovery. Artificers are 
normally selected for this job because of their fa 
miliarity with enchanted objects. Finders are also 
occasionally assigned to this role because of their 
ability to locate objects. If no escort is present, the 
curator is usually also responsible for protecting 
the recovered inventory. 

Guardian; One or more guardians will often ac 
company an expedition to provide it with a cadre 
of Charonath that can perform any necessary 
manual labor as well as offer physical protection 
to the party. A guardian may also serve as quar 
termaster if a scribe is not in attendance. 

Consulting Scholars; Scholars with various 
forms of expertise will often join parties on mis 
sions that may benefit from their expertise, or 
when they have a professional interest in the pos 
sible findings of the party. 

RESOUnCSS AHD SERVICES 

The Crown will pay to outfit an expedition with 
modest provisions and will provide information 
related to the mission, such as records of previous 
expeditions and maps, whether ancient or recent. 

Undead; Charonath are used as porters and 
guards on most missions for the Crown. Under 
the supervision of a guardian, the undead will set 
up and break campsites, carry party members in 
sedan chairs, and/or pull wagons of provisions. 

The number of undead sent with an expedi 
tion depends primarily on the nature of the mis 
sion and the experience level(s) of the accompa 
nying guardian(s). A normal expedition includes 
one undead guard per party member, plus one 
additional per experience level of the most expe 
rienced party member. More or less may be 
assigned. 

While Charonath are intended to carry the re 
sponsibility for any combat that may be neces 
sary, players are warned against having their 
characters regarding them as cannon fodder. The 


68 • Ckaptsr Four 




careless and unnecessary destruction of Char- 
onath is considered treasonous, and perpetrators 
are severely punished. 

Transportation; Various conveniences of this 
sort may be made available to an expedition, de 
pending on the urgency of completing the mis 
sion as well as the needs of other projects at the 
time. 

Carts and wagons will always be provided to 
transport the party's supplies. If the mission in 
volves travel over rough terrain or through in 
clement weather, larger wagons can be obtained 
that will hold the party members as well as their 
possessions. Extra Charonath (ones not already 
designated for guard duty) are harnessed to these 
conveyances and can pull them at the speed of 
force marching without being subject to any nor 
mal penalties. 

Sedan chairs, and additional Charonath to 
carry them, are available upon request to wizards 
and priests of 3rd level and higher. These chairs 
are not just luxuries, but are intended to allow 
spell-casters to rest while traveling. A standard 
sedan requires two Charonath to bear it; larger 
chairs available to spell-casters of 5th level and 
higher require four bearers. 

In rare circumstances, a levitating barge will 
be provided for travel over water or a long journey 
over smooth terrain. These devices can cover as 
much as 100 miles a day under ideal conditions. 

Healing; Any characters who are injured or 
killed while on an expedition in the service of the 
queen will be healed or raised by philosophers at 
no expense upon the party's return to the Civil 
Centers. (This assumes, of course, that the body of 
a character who has died is brought back.) 

The Rules oe Enoagekent 

since the beginning of time, the Charonti have 
sought to understand the world around them. In 
the days of the elder civilization, they encoun 
tered hundreds of primitive peoples and led them 
from darkness. During this period the Charonti 
developed a tradition of proper conduct relat 
ing to first contact with primitives. This, in addi 
tion to their traditions of etiquette that prescribe 
proper conduct between citizens themselves, 
combine to create the Charonti rules of engage 
ment. 

Formal guidelines have been established (and 
are periodically reviewed) by the Court, the coun 
cil, the Vizier, and the High Guardian to define a 
code of conduct for members of Crown expedi 
tions. These rules are generally followed even by 
members of independent expeditions sponsored 
by the colleges. The punishment for breaking any 
of these rules varies and is decided on a case-by 
case basis. 


RUUES OF EHCMrEHEKr 

It is treasonous for a citizen to abandon another in 
the Outlands. 

This is the most serious of all the rules of engage 
ment. The Croion/foions upon divisions within groups 
that result in parties splitting up. Charonti are ex 
pected to put their duty to their nation be/ore their per 
sonal differences, at least until they have returned 
home. 

The leader carries the queen's justice. 

Failure to abide by an expedition leader's decision 
is a crime against the security of the nation as well as 
the queen's justice. 

The expedition must attempt to establish peace 
ful contact with any sentient life forms encoun 
tered, unless such effort would clearly jeopardize 
the welfare of the mission or the party. 

The Charonti have an ancient tradition as explor 
ers. This rule was created to serve as a guideline for 
when the Charonti expand beyond Jakandor. After sev 
eral early attempts failed, it has become generally ac 
cepted that trying to establish peaceful contact with 
the Knorr is too dangerous-but there may still be ex 
plorers willing to try. 

The knowledge gained and experiences endured 
by the party are to be recorded and returned to 
the Dodecon. 

The Charonti are passionately dedicated to ex 
panding their growing knowledge of the world and 
their own past. For this reason, oj^cial records 0 /every 
Crown journey are made. 

Items of interest or historical value must be col 
lected when possible, protected when appropri 
ate, and dismantled or destroyed only when 
necessary. 

Ancient magic and technology should always be 
returned to the Dodecon, when this can be done sa/ely. 
In some cases, powerful magic or technology may be 
immobile. In these situations a security party should 
be called in to cordon off the area and set up gates so 
that an investigation may be undertaken. 

1 recovered items are to be submitted to the Ju 
rists at the returning gate for assignment. 

The process 0 /declaring treasure upon the return 
of an expedition is described at the end of this section. 

Those infected with plague are not to communi 
cate by magical means with the city and must 
not return while potentially infectious. 

Standard procedures for dealing with in/ectious 
people are described in detail in the section on the 
Wasting Plague in Chapter Five. 


PLAYING CHAAONTI • 69 



CoLLSQ'E Expeditions 

Sometimes an individual scholar or a group of 
scholars in a college will assemble an expedition 
either funded by the college or through private 
sources. Such a mission is usually undertaken to 
advance a specific research project of the college 
or of an individual, or to promote the agenda of 
the sponsoring group. 

These expeditions normally follow the formal 
rules of a Crown mission but are not as rigorously 
structured. The party is likely to be led by the 
most experienced scholar or the sponsor of the 
expedition, which often turns out to be the same 
person. This is particularly true in an expedition 
sponsored by a specific college, where the high 
est-ranking scholar will simply assume command 
responsibility. 

Resources of these expeditions consist of 
whatever the college or the sponsors can muster. 
Party leaders are always debriefed by Jurists upon 
their return, to ascertain whether information or 
objects of value to the Crown have been uncov 
ered. 

Guiw Expeditions 

Whether it is to collect raw materials, discover 
lost magic, or trade illicitly with the outcasts, 
some guildsmen conduct expeditions to the Out- 
lands. The Outland gates at the borders of the 
settled areas are staffed with scribes and Jurists 
who manage the flow of traffic to and from the 
Outlands. All cargo carried by guildsmen must be 
declared before leaving and upon returning to 
the city. Some guilds maintain small operations 
in the Outlands to collect raw materials and use 
these camps as a cover for their nefarious trading 
activity. 

The structure of a guild party is determined 
by the guild master, talang into account the pur 
pose of the mission. Many guild expeditions con 
sist of little more than trains of carts and wagons 
used to carry supplies to or from some remote 
depot. The guildsmen are bound by the rules of 
engagement regarding treasonous behavior. For 
example, they may not abandon party members 
in the Outlands, unless they are leaving them to 
work at the distant site. 

DEciARiNO Treasure 

Any magical items, treasure, spells, or objects of 
antiquity recovered by a party traveling in the 
Outlands must be declared at the gate upon the 
group's return to the Civil Center. The objects will 
be confiscated and examined by Jurists and (if 
necessary) identified at the Crown's expense. 


If an item is ordinary, such as an ancient plate 
of warming or a decorative brooch, it will be re 
turned to the possession of the citizen who recov 
ered it. A scholar must donate such an item to his 
sponsoring institution, while a guildsman is per 
mitted to keep it. 

A rare but previously discovered object is 
given back to a guildsman as well, but in such a 
case the registry will record the character as the 
custodian of the object on behalf of the Crown. 
The powers of the object (if it is magical) may not 
be used without the prior consent of a jurist, and 
ownership of the object may not be transferred 
without permission of the Crown. If a scholar 
brings back a rare item, it will be claimed by the 
Crown or made part of the inventory of a college 
as appropriate. 

A new magical item or spell that has never 
been seen before will be claimed by the Crown 
and placed in the Dodecon, where scholars can 
investigate its function and operation. Such items 
are occasionally made available to Crown expedi 
tions in cases where genuine need can be demon 
strated. 

If the new object was brought back by a 
guildsman, the Dodecon will maintain a record of 
the "donor." If the magical powers of the new ob 
ject prove to be reproducible and specifically ben 
eficial to the character's guild, a copy of the item 
or spell will be made available to that organiza 
tion. 

Gold and wealth are handled differently. Guild 
expeditions are permitted to keep any wealth re 
covered and divide it among members in any 
manner they see fit, although it must be declared 
for purposes of the Crown's tax records. A college 
that sponsors an expedition is permitted to retain 
all monetary wealth that is recovered. A Crown 
expedition must donate half of all wealth to the 
Crown and divide the remainder proportionately 
among the institutions represented in the party. 
Wizards are considered to be sponsored by their 
colleges. Priests are considered to be sponsored by 
the College of Thought. Scribes and guardians are 
sponsored by the Crown, and their shares are sent 
to the royal treasury in addition to the initial half 
of the wealth. 

Scholars may spend acquired wealth on ne 
cessities while adventuring, and are not expected 
to account for such expenditures when they re 
turn. 


70 • Ckaptiii Four 



MENTORS AND 

Character 

Advancement 

Even stronger than ties of blood among the 
Charonti is the relationship between a student 
and a teacher. As a group, citizens look upon their 
ancestors as teachers from whose fortune and 
folly they must learn if they are to restore 
Charonti culture. This veneration of teachers ex 
tends into present-day society. 

To advance in experience levels as quickly and 
efficiently as possible, every character must re 
ceive training from a higher-level character of the 
same profession (character kit). The specific 
process for training and advancement varies from 
caste to caste. 

ADVAMCEKENT AKONO 

Scholars 

Every Charonti who enrolls in one of the colleges 
of the Addakainen does so only through the spon 
sorship of a scholar who acts as that candidate's 
mentor. The relationship between a student and a 
mentor is very formal. The student must always 
display humility and respect before the teacher. 
The mentor determines when the student is pre 
pared to advance in his learning by applying tests 
of wisdom, courage, discipline, and justice as well 
as examinations of specific knowledge and ability. 

Advancement among scholars is more than a 
mere matter of living longer or seeing a bit more 
of the world; it represents specific initiation into 
the secrets of a student's arcane discipline. Not 
unlike a secret society, a student may spend years 
working within a college before his mentor deems 
him ready to be initiated into the secrets of the 
next level of illumination within his order. 

It is sometimes within the context of an expe 
dition that a mentor will assign a student to com 
plete a particular task as a requirement for 
advancing in level. The task may simply be to suc 
cessfully participate in the expedition, or the stu 
dent may be requested to display certain 
expertise before the mentor will offer the final 
training that will enable a character to advance. 
Many mentors assign a student ambiguous tasks 
described in the form of a riddle to challenge the 
student's intellectual acumen. Older scholars 
enjoy sharing tales of the tests their apprentices 
have overcome. 

Once the task is completed to the mentor's 
satisfaction (and the character has enough expe 
rience points), the character must spend a num 


ber of weeks equal to the level to which the stu 
dent aspires in final training at the college. This 
training is always provided at no cost to Ae stu 
dent. 

A mentor is never obligated to initiate an ap 
prentice into a higher level of learning if the men 
tor believes the student is unprepared, regardless 
of what he may have accomplished (the number 
of the character's experience points). The mentor 
must, however, help to guide the student toward 
this goal. It is not lire mentor's task to make the 
apprentice's life easy, but rather to make certain 
that the apprentice gains power in accordance 
with his wisdom to use power dutifully. 

A scholar who chooses to be trained by some 
one other than his mentor is considered disre 
spectful and ambitious. Such an act is a grave 
affront to one's mentor, who is unlikely to ever 
speak to the character again-and finding a new 
mentor will be difficult, because few teachers are 
willing to take on a rebellious student. 

A scholar who does not have a mentor may 
advance in level without training by accumulating 
25% more experience points than are normally re 
quired to advance to the level sought. Those 
"extra" points are lost as soon as the character ac 
quires the last of them and officially advances. 

advamcememt Among 

&U1LDSMEN 

Most members of the guildsman caste learn their 
craft by apprenticing themselves to the master of 
a guild. A master guildsman may have several ap 
prentices and may in turn serve a more experi 
enced master. In some cases a guildsman's 
teacher may simply be one of his parents. 

If a character is employed by a guild, he must 
perform work equal to 1,000 gp x the level sought 
before the master will begin the character's for 
mal training. (Pa 3 mient in gold is readily accepted 
to cover all or part of this expense.) As with schol 
ars, training to advance in level takes a number of 
weeks equal to the level being sought. A guilds 
man who is trained by a parent or some other per 
son not affiliated with a guild does not need to 
pay for the training, but the process takes twice as 
long (two weeks per level being sought). 

Although the relationship between a teacher 
and a student among guildsmen is very close, 
guildsmen are much less fussy about apprentices 
getting training from different people. The only 
rule is that a teacher must never agree to train a 
member of another guild. 

A guildsman may advance in level without a 
teacher, but must acquire 20% more experience 
points than are normally needed to advance to 
the new level. 


PlAYINO CHAROHTI • 71 


ADVAHC£K£HT AKOMG 

Outcasts 

Among the anarchy of the Outlands, teachers are 
few. Those who have survived long enough to gain 
levels of experience have usually done so because 
someone taught them how. An outcast does not 
begin the game with a mentor, and must find a 
higher-level character of the same kit to serve as 
his teacher. 

With the help of such a mentor, a character 
may advance normally. The fee for training may 
be exorbitant or nothing at all, depending entirely 
on the discretion of the teacher. 

An outcast may advance without being 
trained by a mentor by acquiring 15% more expe 
rience points than are normally required to attain 
the new level. 

Charohti 

Justice 

Charonti are passionate about their ideal of the 
just society. They have used magic to create a sys 
tem of justice that not only protects citizens from 
crime, but actually enhances the quality of 
Charonti life. 

The queen is a figure of absolute authority in 
Charonti society. However, the people are assured 
by the geas spell by which she is bound that her 
authority will be used for the benefit of the com 
munity. The queen delegates many of her powers 
to the Jurists, who are likewise magically bound to 
use them in the public interest. The queen's Court 
of philosophers contributes to the justice process 
by helping the queen discern the wisest course 
when a problem is brought to her that the Jurists 
themselves have been unable to resolve. 

The Oueem 

Once a month the queen appears in the Open 
Plaza in Alchatay. Here she sits on a simple chair 
mounted upon a plain dais. From this vantage 
point she acts as the high Jurist of the nation and 
hears the grievances of the people. The queen is 
known and loved for her wisdom and compassion. 
Most Charonti who plan to appeal a decision of a 
Jurist wait for one of the Queen's Days to take the 
case directly to the regent. She has been known to 
grant general amnesties as well as overturn the 
ruling of a Jurist when she felt it was appropriate. 
However, she can become annoyed if she thinks 
someone is taking advantage of her-the people 
have learned (some of them the hard way) not to 
bother her with trivial cases that could be resolved 
at a lower level of decision-making. 


The JuAiSTS 

Jurists are officials of the Crown who are trained 
in the practical application of justice. Rather than 
adhering to circuitous lists of specific laws, the Ju 
rists are trained to use their individual wisdom, 
tempered with compassion, when arbitrating a 
conflict. Jurists are selected from among good in 
dividuals who have a neutral attitude about law 
and chaos. This insures that their rule is neither 
too rules-minded nor overly capricious. 

At the lowest level of the judicial hierarchy are 
the common Jurists, each of whom is assigned a 
domain consisting of a group of buildings. The 
common Jurist in a neighborhood is usually 
known by all the local residents and often sought 
out to perform a number of services. At the next 
level of the hierarchy are those who are respon 
sible for busy areas such as gates or market 
places, and large institutions such as colleges or 
government departments. Still others are as 
signed to serve expeditions of the Crown. The se 
nior Jurists each have responsibility for an area 
that includes the smaller domains of several 
lower-level Jurists. Ultimately four venerable Ju 
rists, each with responsibillity for all of the other 
Jurists in one of the Civil Centers, report directly 
to the queen. 

Fvnctiohs of Jurists 

General Counsel; The function for which Jurists are 
most commonly sought is simple counsel. Guilds- 
men and scholars alike will seek out a Jurist to 
discuss a troubling matter about which they re 
quire advice or a suggestion regarding the "right 
thing to do." When they are not engaged in some 
other task. Jurists stroll through the area over 
which they preside and thereby make themselves 
available to their constituents. 

Vocation; Jurists are responsible for the direct 
application of the Charonti notion that people 
should do the work they are best suited to. In this 
capacity a Jurist will occasionally notice an indi 
vidual struggling as an apprentice in a shop and 
take some time to counsel the person. If the Jurist 
becomes convinced that the apprentice would be 
better suited to another task, he may use the spell 
fenoLo calling to divine whether this is the case and 
then with the force of law instruct the person to 
pursue the new vocation. 

Marriage; Jurists have the authority to arrange 
marriages. It is not mandatory for a person to ask 
a Jurist for assistance, but if this service is re 
quested of a Jurist of 3rd level or higher, the spell 
divine match can be used to determine whether an 
individual has met his or her ideal mate. 

Resolution 0 /Disputes; Jurists are empowered to 
resolve disputes whether their counsel is sought 


7ft • Chaptsu fown 


or not. They may intervene in any argument or 
step into the middle of any disagreement and rule 
on the matter with the force of law. 

Property Assignment; Jurists have the authority 
to transfer ownership of personal property in the 
interest of justice. They may do this to facilitate 
resolving a dispute to better use resources. 

Punishment of Criminals; The Charonti have 
few formal laws but a large number of traditions 
that regulate behavior. Jurists may decide that a 
particular action is a punishable crime in one 
case and simply an affront to tradition in an 
other. The only actions that always bring severe 
punishment are theft, murder, and treason. Mur 
derers and traitors are subjected to the most ex 
treme measure of Charonti justice-a permanent 
geas compelling the individual to spend his life in 
public service. Theft is punished by requiring the 
criminal to compensate the victim in goods or 
services. 

If a Jurist finds it necessary or convenient to 
put more than just the power of his words into a 
decision or a sentence, he can use his pendant of 
the just society (see Chapter Six) to compel the 
transgressor to obey. Sentences given to thieves 
and murderers are always enforced by the use of 
the jurist's pendant. 

tM JVDICIAL PSOCSSS 

Once a Jurist has made a decision on any matter, 
regardless of whether the decision has been en 
forced by a geas, the matter is considered re 
solved unless one of the parties involved wishes 
to appeal the decision. Individuals who are in 
structed to perform a task are expected to attend 
to it promptiy. Someone who feels that justice has 
not been served by the decision of a Jurist may not 
pursue justice on his own. Defying the decision of 
a Jurist is almost always a punishable crime. 

Charonti who are unsatisfied with a jurist's 
decision may appeal once and once only to a Ju 
rist of higher level. If the subject of the decision 
has been geased to a task that somehow prevents 
the person from reaching a higher-level jurist, the 
family or friends of the person must take up the 
matter. If the higher-level Jurist reaffirms the first 
jurist's decision, the case is considered closed. If 
the second Jurist overturns the decision, both Ju 
rists meet to reach a consensus and make a final 
ruling that cannot be appealed. 

Appealing a jurist's decision is not something 
that should ever be undertaken frivolously or fre 
quently. Higher-level Jurists take a dim view of 
people who seem unwilling to cooperate with the 
rest of society, and have been known to go so far 
as to geas someone to prohibit him from appeal 
ing any jurist's decision for the rest of his life. 


Justice in the ovtlands 

While the queen lays claim to all of Jakandor, be 
yond the high walls of the Civil Centers the out 
casts live with justice of their own making. In the 
anarchy of the open wild, communities live as 
best they can. Some Thanhotepic enclaves adhere 
to Charonti traditions and allow their priests to 
administer justice. In the domain of a bandit king, 
disputes may be resolved by bloody contests of 
treachery and stealth. 

Regardless of the local instruments of justice, 
the queen sees the Jurists who accompany her ex 
peditions into the Outlands as a means of intro 
ducing true justice into that wild land and to 
begin to prepare the way for her rule over the en 
tire island. Jurists are authorized by the queen to 
wield their power while traveling in the Outlands. 

Some outcasts resent the Crown and see the 
Jurists as an offensive intrusion into their lives. 
Others hear wonderful stories about the safety 
and tranquility of the Civil Centers and welcome 
the arrival of a Jurist as a wanderer who can share 
a bit of the queen's justice with the less fortunate. 

Jurists are expected to serve the interests of 
the queen and the ideal of the just society when 
in the Outlands. The queen believes that exposing 
people of the wilds to true justice will cultivate in 
them a love of truth and make them desire the 
expansion of her realm. 



playino Charonti • 73 




• ¦riMtiSi 

illiil 

*¦"•*••• rtf'a 




his section 
provides a look 
at the economic life 
of the Charonti as 
;; well as a variety 
u of new proficiencies 
F and tools. 


SOVIPMENT 
WHAT'S 

Available 

In general the Charonti enjoy a wealth of items 
bo^ magical and mundane that help make their 
lives more pleasant. This abundance of conve 
niences includes an entire class of magic items 
available in the marketplaces and shops of the 
busy Charonti Civil Centers. They have, however, 
little in the way of weapons or tools of warfare. 
This section describes the products and prices for 
sale in the Charonti communities as well as an 
overview of their economic life. 

tRADE IN THE 

Charonti Culture 

Guildsmen make up the largest portion of the 
Charonti population, and they are the force be 
hind its bustling economic life. Among the guilds- 
man caste there are virtually no restrictions on 
trading goods and services. Gold coins, silver, cop 
per, platinum and electrum are used as currency 
to keep enterprise fluid. With the exception of so 
cial conventions that direct people to use their 
wealth to the mutual benefit and comfort of their 
lineage, there is little standing between an enter 
prising and talented craftsman and his fortune. 

The scholar caste, with certain exceptions, is 
discouraged from participating in the general eco 
nomic life of the Civil Centers. The only private 
property that scholars may own is a modest col 
lection of personal effects. Most of their material 


needs are 
taken care of by 
their sponsoring in 
stitution. Some schol 
ars, such as wardens, are 
able to sell services to the 
public, but are expected to con 
tribute their earnings to their 
sponsoring institution. 

It is illegal for any Charonti to engage 
in trade witii outcasts unless specifically permitted 
by the Crown. Such exceptions are occasionally 
made for expeditions who encounter emergencies 
and must parlay with outcasts for supplies. This 
prohibition is meant to prevent aiding or abetting 
enemies of the Crown. It is not viewed as unkind, 
since any honest outcast may petition for citizen 
ship if he is willing to swear fealty to the Crown and 
able to perform a useful function. 

Trade in the 
Civil Centers 

The Civil Centers contain large plazas that serve 
as marketplaces and a wide variety of guildsmen's 


74 • Ckaptir Five 













SOVIPKEHT 
LISTS AHD 

Tablss 

All of the items mentioned in Table 44 in the 
Player's Handbook can be found within the 
Charonti Civil Centers, at the same average prices 
given in that book-except for equipment specifi 
cally identified as not available in the following 
lists. Included in the tables on the following pages 
are new items not mentioned in the Player's Hand- 


Hiw Rvus & Tools • 7S 


OVILDS 

In Charonti society, the businesses that the 
Crown doesn't own and run are managed by 
family guilds. Guilds manage refining, manu 
facturing, and retail of goods and services. They 
also lend money and finance their own opera 
tions. While a guild may be invested in a variety 
of businesses, each family tends to specialize in 
one craft and each craft possesses its own busi 
ness secrets, sciences, technologies and rituals. 
The DM may create guild crafts, but here is a 
list of the more traditional crafts: 


Trade in the outlands 


There are few stable communities in the Out 
lands, which accounts for the lack of supplies and 
their high cost if they can be found. Outcast char 
acters have only a 50% chance of finding specific 
common equipment available for sale in an out 
cast community, and the prices will be twice 
those listed below. 

In the Outlands some individuals will offer 
shelter to travelers, but no regular lodgings such 
as inns are likely to survive long. 


shops 
that are 
usually busy dur 
ing daylight hours. 
Any of the items listed 
in the equipment lists 
that follow can be readily 
found in the Civil Centers. 

It should be noted that 
there are no inns within Charonti 
culture. Inside the Civil Centers, people 
stay at their homes or dormitories. There are, 
however, public eating and drinking halls that serve 
as centers of social activity and entertainment. 


Architect 

Baker 

Bowyer 

Butcher 

Carpenter 

Charonath outfitter 

Crier 

Farmer 

Glass-blower 

Grass weaver 

Hospice 

Irrigator 

Lamp maker 

Limner 

Miner 

Moneylender 

Musicians 

Paper maker 

Pharmacist 

Pottery 

Rope maker 

Sandal maker 

Sedan maker 

Shipwright 

Spice merchant 

Tailor 

Tinsmith 

Vintner 

Weaver 


Armorer 

Barber 

Builder 

Candlemaker 

Cartographer 

Cosmetologist 

Dry Goods 

Fisher 

Goldsmith 

Green Grocer 

Ink maker 

Jeweler 

Leatherworker 

Mat maker 

Minter 

Muckraker (recycler) 

Oil seller 

Performer 

Plasterer 

Refiner 

Salter 

Seasoner 

Shipper 

Silversmith 

Stonecutter 

Tanner 

Toymaker 

Weaponsmith 

Woodcutter 










Eovipkent USTS 


Clothing 

Boots, Outland 3 gp 

Cloak, fine cloth 10 sp 

Cloak, good cloth 8 sp 

Cloak, plain cloth 4 sp 

Dagger sash 3 cp 

Gown, fine 2 gp 

Hose, cotton 2 gp 

Hose, leather 4 gp 

Phylactery 10 gp 

Ring, gold 2 gp 

Ring, bone 1 sp 

Skullcap, silk 1 sp 

Skullcap, bone 5 sp 

Skirt, cotton 6 sp 

Toga, fine 1 sp 

Not available: Boots, Riding; Breeches; Cap, hat; 
Girdle; Knife sheath; Mittens; Silk jacket; Surcoat; 
Sword scabbard. 

Daily Food and Lodging 

Banquet (per person) 10 sp 

Rice for one meal 5 cp 

Not available; City rooms; Grain and stabling for 
horse; Inn lodgings; Meat for one meal; Separate la 
trine for rooms. 

Household Provisioning 

None - 

Not available: Rations, standard; Rations, iron. 


Charonath 

Serataar 

Serathi 

Shaddoc 

Charonath T&ck and Harness 
Item 

Cart harness 
Halter 

Yoke, 4-body 
Yoke, 2-body 

Transport 
Levitating Barge 
Sedan chair, 2-bearer 
Sedan chair, 4-bearer 
Whaleship 


500 gp 
2,500 gp 
5,000 gp 


Price Wgt (lbs.) 
2gP 1 

5 cp 1 

5 gp 15 

3gp 20 


5,000 gp 

100 gp 
150 gp 
50,000 gp 


Not available: Canoe; Caravel; Chariot, War; 
Coaster; Cog; Curragh; Drakkar; Dromond; Galleon; 
Great galley; Knarr; Longship; Oar, Galley. 

Miscellaneous Equipment 

Ambulator (any item) Normal Same as 

price X 10 normal 
Paper (per sheet) 1 sp - 

Not available: Map or scroll case; Parchment; Per 
fume. 

Common Magic Items 

Alarmstone 500 gp * 

Charismatic cosmetics 20 gp * 

Disc of floating 2,000 gp 

Eternal flame 100 gp * 

Full and steady cup 100 gp 1 

Lightstone 200 gp * 

Plate of warming 500 gp 2 

Portal holding lock 1,000 gp 1 

Shelter of constancy 100 gp 

TYaveling cloak 1,000 gp 2 

Wellskin 100 gp 1 

Writing tablet 50 gp 2 

* These items weigh little individually. Ten of these 
items weigh one pound. 

Animals 

Pheasant 8 cp 

Quail 6 cp 

Rabbit 1 cp 

Not available: Camel; Dog, War; Donkey, mule, or 
ass; Elephant; Falcon; Guinea hen; Horse; Hunting cat; 
Pigeon, homing; Pony. 

Services 

Companion (per evening 4 gp 

Guide, in Outlands (per day) 1 gp 

Lightbearer (per night) 1 sp 

Messenger, in city yjer message) 1 sp 

Sandman (per performance) 3 gp 

Celebrant (per rending) 2 sp 

Teamster w/wagon 1 sp/mile 

Warden (per day) 5 gp 

Not available: Minstrel; Mourner. 

Armor 

None - 

Not available: All except leather (AC 8), padded (AC 
8), studded leather (AC 7), and shields. 

Other types of armor may be uncovered among 
treasure in the ruins of Jakandor. 


SPEED DAMAGE 

New Item Price Wgt (lbs.) Size Type Factor S-M L 

Rending knife 10 gp 1 S P 2 ld4+2 ld2 

Not available: Arquebus; Battle-axe; Composite bows; Hand crossbow; Heavy crossbow; Footman's 
flail; Footman's pick; Harpoon; Horseman's flail; Horseman's mace; Horseman's pick; Javelin; Lance; 
Mancatcher; Morning star; all polearms except Awl pike; all swords except Khopesh, Long sword, and 
Short sword; Ttident; Warhammer. 


76 • CKAPTf R f IV£ 



book, as well as standard items that have different 
average prices from those given in the PHB, 

Not mentioned here are many strange and 
wonderful devices used by the ancient Charonti 
that are occasionally recovered by intrepid schol 
ars exploring the ruins. These mechanisms are 
left to the DM to introduce in appropriate adven 
tures. 

SOVIPKEHT DESCRIPTIOMS 

Below are descriptions of any items that are dis 
tinctly Charonti or require special explanation. 
Those commonly found in other AD&D game 
campaigns and included in the Player's Handbook 
are not described. 

Clothing 

Boots, Outland; These are thick leather boots 
made for traveling in the wilderness. Most people 
wear sandals or soft shoes in the Civil Centers, 
since all the surfaces are paved and smooth. 

Phylactery; A Charonti phylactery is a strip of 
cloth, sometimes ornamented or embroidered, 
that is wound around the hand several times and 
then up the wrist where it is tied off, held by a 
bracelet, or hooked with a clasp. 

Skullcap; Most adult Charonti keep their heads 
shaven, although beards are not uncommon 
among men. Skullcaps are small round caps that 
fit snugly on the head and are the most common 
Charonti headgear. Some have holes in the center 
to allow a single braid to be pulled through. 

Skirt, cotton; Charonti males often wear cotton 
skirts dyed a solid color that hang to mid-calf and 
are clasped at the waist. Women do not wear 
skirts, but prefer gowns. 

Charonath 

The Charonath are the undead devices and 
tools of the Charonti. They are described in detail 
later in this chapter. 

Charonath Tack and Harness 

The Charonti rely upon their undead and the 
automatons of the artificers for beasts of burden. 
Each of the items described below is for use by or 
with a common Charonath zombie. 

Cart harness; This is a set of long leather straps 
secured to the laborer for pulling a cart. 

Halter; A set of canvas or leather straps that 
begin as a belt at the waist, criss-cross the chest 
and back, loop over the shoulders and once 
around the neck. The apparatus is secured by a 
buckle. 

Yoke; A large wooden crossbeam cut to fit 
snugly across the shoulders of a Charonath zom 
bie. Yokes are used in farming as well as for 
pulling large wagons and carts. 


Transport 

The levitating barge and the whaleship are 
described later in this chapter under the heading 
"Charonti Machines." 

Miscellaneous Equipment 

Ambulators; The Charonti make frequent use 
of ambulatory objects. Any household item may 
be animated by an artificer who can cast ambu 
late object (see Chapter Six, where characteristics 
of ambulatory items are given in the description 
of the spell). 

Common Magic Items 

These items are readily available for sale in 
any Charonti market. 

Alarmstonc; When this pebble-sized device is 
activated, it detects movement of any sort that 
takes place within a 30-foot radius and gives off a 
loud, high-pitched whistling sound until it is de 
activated. When the user speaks the command 
word to activate an alarmstone, it begins working 
two rounds afterward (giving the user time to va 
cate the area without setting off the alarm). One 
command word activates or deactivates a stone, 
but no two stones have the same command word. 

Charismatic cosmetics; If applied every day for a 
month, this substance will increase the user's 
Charisma by 1 for as long thereafter as the cos 
metics continue to be used. If the application is 
skipped on any day, the attribute score returns to 
normal, and the user must apply the cosmetics 
for another month before regaining the benefit. 
The listed price is for a one-month supply. 

Disc of floating: This device is a permanent, 
physical manifestation of the spell Tenser's float 
ing disc. It is a slightly concave, dun-colored disc 

3 feet in diameter capable of holding 200 pounds 
of weight. The disc floats approximately 2 feet off 
the ground at all times and remains level. It floats 
horizontally and follows its owner at a distance of 

4 feet. It will accompany its owner at a movement 
rate of no greater than 6. If the owner moves 
quickly out of range, the disk will remain where it 
is until he or she returns. Each disc has a unique 
command word, and it will follow anyone (not 
necessarily the owner) who speaks the word 
while standing within 4 feet of it. 

Eternal flame: The tip of this match-sized stick 
will burst into a small flame when the command 
word is spoken. It is most often used to ignite 
flammable material or provide a small area of il 
lumination; it causes no damage if used with the 
intent to harm. The eternal flame will light even 
when the stick is wet or under water. Repeating 
the command word will extinguish the flame. 

Full and steady cup; This small clay tumbler fills 
with hot tea upon the utterance of its command 


HKw Rvus 6 Tools • 77 



word. The contents of the cup cannot be spilled, 
even if an object is thrust into it or it is held up 
side down. It will only release liquid if a person's 
lips are placed to the rim of the cup. The user can 
then drink freely and will not spill a drop even if 
he or the cup is jostled. The tea remains at a com 
fortable drinking temperature constantly. Repeat 
ing the command word empties and cleans the 
cup. 

Lightstone: A small gem with a permanent 
light spell cast upon it. Lightstones have no com 
mand word to activate or deactivate them and are 
usually kept in small velvet pouches to conceal 
their illumination when it is not needed. 

Plate of warming: A command word causes this 
2-foot-diameter stone platter to heat quickly until 
it is hot enough to cook food or boil a pot of water 
placed on it. A different command word causes it 
to maintain a lower temperature that keeps food 
or liquid warm. Uttering either command word a 
second time deactivates it. 

Portal holding lock; If this small metal box is 
placed on any door or gate made of wood, metal, 
or stone, it will stick to the door or gate and hold 
it fast as though it were locked. A knock spell or 
dispel magic can render the lock useless, causing 
it to drop to the ground and release the door. A 
locked portal can be physically battered down, but 


in such a case the lock is not damaged and can be 
used again. This lock activates when placed 
against a portal and is deactivated by a command 
word. 

Shelter of constancy; This is a hemispherical 
piece of canvas or cloth 3 feet in diameter 
stretched over a series of bone ribs that radiate 
from a center point. When activated, it will float a 
few inches above the user's head as the person 
travels about. It shelters the user from precipita 
tion and bright sunlight. 

Traveling cloak: This cloak adjusts the temper 
ature of the wearer to be comfortably cooler or 
warmer than the ambient temperature. The cloak 
requires five rounds to adjust to an abrupt change 
in temperature, and as such offers no protection 
from sudden magical attacks involving heat or 
cold. 

Wellskin: This appears to be an ordinary 1-gal 
lon wineskin, but will fill with water when the 
command word is spoken. Repeating the com 
mand word will empty it. It can provide 1 gallon of 
water per day. 

Writing tablet; This is a small clay tablet about 
1 inch thick and 9 inches by 12 inches in surface 
area. A small wooden stylus is used to write in 
formation on the soft surface of the tablet. When 
a piece of paper is placed upon the tablet and the 


78 • CKAPTSR five 
























command word is spoken, red ink will fill the in 
dentations made by the stylus and stain the 
paper, causing the message to be inked onto the 
paper. Saying the command word again causes 
the ink to disappear and clears the surface of the 
tablet, making it smooth again. 

Animals 

Horses; According to ancient records, long be 
fore the time of the plague horses were once used 
by the Charonti as beasts of burden and for trans 
portation. Within the past 150 years, the few that 
have been encountered in the wild were unable to 
be bred in captivity. Further, they proved to be 
extremely difficult to command compared to the 
Charonath. As a result, no further attempts to 
catch or train horses have been undertaken. They 
are extremely rare animals and said to only run 
wild on the far eastern end of the island. 

Weapons 

The Charonti make most of their weapons out 
of bone and strengthen them with the enchant 
ment bone to steel (see Chapter Six). The prices in 
the Player's Handbook are for weapons that have 
been strengthened; an ordinary bone weapon can 
be purchased for half the listed amount. The user 
of an unstrengthened weapon has a -2 penalty on 
damage rolls and risks having the weapon break 
on a natural attack roll of 1. 

Rending knife: This weapon has a long, dagger 
like blade that curves inward and swells near the 
tip, resembling a machete. It is used by renders in 
preparing the dead for distillation into Charonath. 
It is not intended as a combat weapon, but hap 
pens to be extremely effective in the hands of a 
render. If used by a character of this profession it 
strikes with a +1 bonus to attack and damage 
rolls, or +2 on damage if used against undead. 

Non-wsapon 

PROFICISNCIES 

In Charonti culture, some non-weapon proficien 
cies have specific meanings. "Local history" refers 
to the events that have transpired since the great 
Congregation. "Ancient history" refers to the his 
tory of the Charonti before the Wasting Plague. 
(This knowledge may be helpful while exploring 
the ruins of Jakandor.) "Religion" refers specifi 
cally to the Thanhotepic religion. A character 
must have both the religion and ancient history 
proficiencies to have knowledge of the many an 
cient faiths upon which the elder Charonti gath 
ered records and information. 

Following are two new proficiencies that may 
prove useful to Charonti adventurers. 


BON£ Carving 

(dexterity -ir 3 slots) 

This proficiency enables a character to manufacture 
a weapon out of a piece of bone. (A dagger could be 
made from a forearm, while a short sword would re 
quire a thighbone.) The number of days required to 
create a weapon is equal to its maximum damage 
when used against a creature of size M-for ex 
ample, 4 days for a dagger; damage = ld4. Note, that 
someone using a weapon crafted from bone has a -2 
penalty on damage rolls, and the weapon will break 
on an unmodified attack roll of 1, unless it is 
strengthened by having bone to steel cast upon it. 

READ MAOIC 

(iNmiiftCMce -3,9 slots) 

Magic is so pervasive in Charonti society that virtu 
ally any educated citizen can read magic. Nonspell- 
casters and spell-casters alike find it useful to be 
able to look at a spell scroll and know what it says. 
This proficiency allows any character to read magic. 
It does not, however, enable the character to use 
scrolls if he would not normally have that ability. 
For example, a Ist-level guardian with this profi 
ciency who finds a scroll could make a proficiency 
check to ascertain whether it is a wizard or priest 
scroll and the names of the spells that are inscribed 
on it. It would not, however, enable the guardian to 
actually use the scroll. In the case of a spell-caster, 
this proficiency acts exactly like the spell read 
magic but cannot be interrupted and obviously 
does not take up any space in the spell-caster's 
memory. Note that a cursed scroll generally affects 
anyone who reads it, whether by means of this pro 
ficiency or by the use of the spell read magic. 

If a character using this proficiency fails a 
check, he may not try again on the same document. 

Taste magic 

(Intelligence S slots) 

Charonti mages are so immersed in the study of 
magic in everyday life that some have the ability to 
determine the school of magic to which a magical 
item or spell effect with a physical manifestation 
belongs by tasting the item. The character must 
lick the item being tested and then make a profi 
ciency check. Success indicates the school of magic 
to which the effect belongs, but not its specific ef 
fects. If the check fails, the character may not at 
tempt to taste the magical aura of that item again 
for a week. There may be additional consequences, 
such as avoiding cuts when licking a knife, avoid 
ing poison when licking something toxic, avoiding 
stieWng when licking freezing metal. The DM must 
determine any additional effects. 


NSW RvLSS & Tools • 79 



Ckarohatk: 
The vhdead 

The cycle of death and rebirth is a defining idea 
and experience in the Charonti consciousness. 
From ancient Thanhotepic practices of animating 
the dead to illustrate the power of their god and 
to celebrate the wisdom of their ancestors the 
Charonti have refined and adapted the role of the 
undead in their lives to reflect the beliefs of the 
present age. 

DEATH AMOHO THE 

Ckaaonti 

The Charonti know that when a person dies alone 
in the wilderness, away from his lineage and 
community, he is set upon by scavengers both 
physical and spiritual. Jackals and crows pick 
clean the bones of the dead, which eventually 
decay to become part of the soil. The spirit is pi 
rated off to the realm of the supernatural, where 
it is enslaved in the service of a great power or left 
to wander in confusion far from the serenity and 
love of home. 

The Charonti perform a complex process of 


distillation upon a deceased person in order to 
save the person from the depredations of the 
scavengers. The deceased is separated into com 
ponent parts of mind, body, and spirit in such a 
way that the experiences of the person's lifetime 
may continue to serve the community. Even as 
simple Charonath zombies, the dead attend to the 
drudgery of labor so that the living may be free to 
advance the wisdom and learning of the nation. 
All dutiful Charonti understand that it is only fit 
ting that they serve the community in death so 
that others may extend the work they did while 
alive. It is this cycle of death and rebirth that al 
lows the Charonti heritage to continue. The 
process of distillation is called rending. 

RENDlNGs 

The process oe pebirtk 

When a Charonti dies, the person is traditionally 
memorialized in a formal ceremony in the home. 
Lineage members and friends gather. A cup of 
wine is passed around the room, and each person 
in turn tells a story that describes how the de 
ceased influenced his life. Regardless of caste or 
position, the dead person is celebrated as a 
teacher, and examples of how the person exem 
plified Charonti ideals are cited. 


80 • Chapter Five 




















































The body is taken by a procession of the sur 
viving family members to the Hall of Perpetual 
Life in Alchatay. This is a large templelike struc 
ture where the government registers deaths. The 
head of the lineage presents the body, whereupon 
a render uses a speak with dead spell to confer 
briefly with the deceased to confirm the identity, 
position, and cause of death of the person. The 
render will also ask whether the person wishes to 
be retained by their lineage or serve the commu 
nity. If the body is to be retained by the lineage, a 
fee is paid by the head of the family at this time. 
The amount of the fee depends on the type of 
rending sought: 500 gold pieces to create a ser- 
ataar, 2,500 to create a serathi, or 5,000 to create a 
shaddoc. 

The Serathi 

If the body is intact and in reasonably good con 
dition, it can be tended into a type of zombie 
called serathi (singular and plural). These undead 
differ from standard zombies in appearance, the 
means by which they are controlled, and their ca 
pacity to be magically enhanced. 

To create a serathi, the body is bathed in a 
waxy resin and tightly wrapped in strips of cloth. 
It is impregnated with herbs and scented powders 
before being animated. The result is a creature 
that bears little if any resemblance to the decrepit 
and gruesome-looking zombies made from bodies 
that are not tended. When animated, a serathi 
can be used as a servant, laborer, soldier, or beast 
of burden. 

A shard of bone is extracted from the body 
during the process (see the spell rend the dead in 
Chapter Six) and provided to the owner of the 
serathi, which will obey the simple verbal com 
mands of whoever holds its shard of control. 
Guardians may carry a sack full of such shards 
when commanding large numbers of undead 
troops. 

Serathi can be turned, destroyed, or controlled 
by a priest just as normal zombies can be. They 
can be adorned with various gems that provide 
them with special powers, as described in "Gems 
of the Charonath" later in this chapter. 

The Serataar 

Animated skeletons, known as serataar, are un 
common among the Charonti. Loose bones are 
usually used by artificers to create automatons, 
but these are enchanted constructions, not true 
undead. When a body is in such a state of disre 
pair that creating a serathi is impractical, the 
bones can be salvaged and used in the construc 
tion of machines or for some other purpose. 
Skeletons are normally only animated in emer 


gency situations-for example, when a party in 
the ruins during an expedition needs soldiers to 
help in its defense. A serataar is controlled by the 
person who possesses its shard of control. 

The Shaddoc 

The accumulated knowledge of a person can be 
retained as a tool called a shade box, or shaddoc. 
To create a shaddoc, the body's skull is removed, 
cleaned, and preserved. Through a special casting 
of rend the dead (see Chapter Six) by a render of 
sufficiently high level, the knowledge of the per 
son is "kept alive" within the skull. Speaking a 
command word causes a dim light to flicker in the 
sockets of the skull. While it is active, anyone can 
ask the shaddoc any question, and the device will 
respond to the best of its ability based upon the 
body of knowledge it gathered in life. 

A shaddoc can answer a number of questions 
per day equal to the level of the render who cre 
ated it. (Note that "I don't know" is a legitimate 
answer.) When its limit of answers is reached, the 
device deactivates and cannot be reactivated for 
24 hours. The responses of shaddoc can often be 
indistinct. They are notoriously literal in their in 
terpretation of questions, which must be phrased 
precisely. 

Shade boxes of noted scholars are kept in the 
library of the Dodecon for consultation by stu 
dents and researchers. They may not be removed 
from the library to prevent their abuse. The queen 
also uses the shade boxes of the most accom 
plished thinkers of Charonti history in the Coun 
cil chamber. 

Shaddoc can be turned or destroyed as 1st- 
level undead. When turned, a shaddoc will simply 
deactivate for a number of hours equal to the 
turning priest, after which it may be reactivated 
with the command word. Controlling a shaddoc 
allows a priest to ask one question of it without 
knowing its command word. Shaddoc have ld4 
hit points and are easily destroyed by simple 
crushing blows. 

The Spirit 

After culling the usable components of a de 
ceased person, the renders have found a distinct 
residue left by the person's spirit and emotions. 
The spirit is ^e part that is most susceptible to 
capture by supernatural powers. A person with 
extremely strong emotions or attachments to the 
material world may create a danger during sepa 
ration. Ghosts and vengeful sentient spirits may 
emerge from the rending as the will of the dead 
person defies the process. If a person is believed 
to present a potential danger in this regard, the 
body is usually just harvested for bones, regard- 


Nsw RvLf s 6 Tools • 81 



less of the possible value of the other compo 
nents. In order to avoid abandoning a Charonti's 
spirit to the supernatural realm, the spell transmi 
grate is cast upon the last residue from the rend 
ing process in order to cycle the person's energy 
back among the living Charonti. 

Rending must be performed within three days 
of a person's death, or the individual's spirit will 
be lost to the supernatural powers and the body 
can only be recovered as a common zombie or 
skeleton. 

UNDEAD OE THE OVTLANDE 

Not all the undead of Jakandor are useful tools of 
the Charonti nation like the crown's Charonath. 
Thanhotepics in the Outlands animate the dead 
as servants. Abandoned temples seem to have the 
dormant power to create undead, some of them 
free-willed and extremely dangerous. The Wast 
ing Plague itself, in its destructive fury, left behind 
lost and bitter spirits in the form of spectres, 
ghosts, and other types of malicious undead. 

OEMS OE THE CHARONATH 

The Charonti have succeeded in creating en 
chanted gems that can enhance the capabilities 
of serathi. These only work with a zombie created 
through the process of rending and not with a 
common zombie that can be animated by any 
wizard or priest. These gems are either mounted 
in the cerements of a serathi's skull or occasion 
ally deposited in the eye sockets. 

Controller's eye; These pale blue gems come in 
pairs. One is placed on the serathi and the other 
retained by the controller. The gem on the serathi 
transmits the images that appear before it to the 
companion gem, which reveals those images to 
the controller when he looks into it. 

Controller's ear; These pale green stones oper 
ate exactly like the controller's eye gems but 
transmit sound instead of light. To hear the trans 
mission, the controller must place the companion 
gem in his or her ear. 

Gem of returning home; These clear gems come 
in pairs, ^^en one is mounted on a serathi, it will 
always return to the companion gem upon com 
pleting a command. 

Gem of seeking; These red gems come in pairs 
and allow the controller to locate a missing 
serathi. When the controller holds one gem in his 
hand, it will tug gently in the direction of its com 
panion gem. 

Gem of self-preservation: This pale violet gem 
enables a serathi to flee before it is destroyed. 
The controller may tell it to flee after taking any 
damage, when it is more than half damaged, or 
when it is about to be destroyed (5 or few hit 


points), or to fight to the death. 

Gem of shutting down: These mill^ gems are 
used in shaddoc, and cause the devices to shut 
down after five minutes of activation or a re 
sponse to one question. 

Gem of speed: This deep yellow gem allows a 
serathi to attack and act with normal initiative 
rather than last in a melee round. 

Gem of stealth; This black gem allows a serathi 
to move silently like a thief with an 80% chance of 
success. 

Gem of strength; This rust-colored gem allows 
the serathi to perform tasks as though it had an 
18/01 strength. Combat bonuses for Strength are 
applied. 

Charonti 

KACHIHSS 

High-level Charonti artificers have succeeded in 
manufacturing a variety of sophisticated ma 
chines from bone and other materials. Some of 
them are highly useful for tasks related to the re 
construction of the Civil Centers, and new ways of 
using these marvelous machines are continually 
being developed. 

In the descriptions that follow, prices for con 
struction are for materials only and do not in 
clude whatever fees might be charged by 
artificers and other wizards for their services. 
(The Crown, of course, gets all of its spellcasting 
services for free.) 

BONEBATs 

Apparatus op Sight 

The bonebat is a large construction of bone struts 
and finely polished gears that has the appearance 
of a large skeletal pterodactyl. When sitting, its 
head is about 5 feet off the ground. Its wings, when 
fully extended, span twenty feet. Each bonebat is 
attuned to a specific controller, usually a guardian, 
as part of the process of its manufacture. Any arti 
ficer capable of creating a bonebat can assign a 
new controller to a device whose controller is 
killed or incapacitated. 

Bonebats are used extensively in military re 
connaissance. They have the ability to telepathi- 
cally transmit visual images of what they have 
seen to their controllers. The controller must be 
touching the bonebat to receive the information. 

Bonebats can process instructions with about 
the intelligence of a dog. For combat purposes 
they should be regarded as monsters witJi the fol 
lowing statistics: 


88 • Ckaptsr fivi 










Bonebat: AC 6; MV 3, Fl 15 (C); HD 8; THACO 13; #AT 
3; Dmg Id8/ld8/3d6 (claw/claw/bite); SD immune 
to cold, edged weapons do half damage, immune 
to mind-controlling magic; SZ H (20 ft. wingspan); 
ML fearless (20); Int semi- (3); AL N; XP 650. 

On the ground, bonebats are cumbersome; 
however, they are not terribly heavy and can be 
carried by four serathi on a modified sedan chair. 
Bonebats may only be created for use by the Crown 
and cannot be purchased by private citizens. One 
can be manufactured at a cost of 8,000 gp and a full 
month of work by an artificer of 8th level or higher. 

WHAIESHIP; 

Apparatus op Flight 

The Charonti once sailed the world in flying 
machines similar to the whaleship. This enor 
mous device is an airship built around the frame 
of a whale's skeleton. Huge canvas bladders of air 
fill the hollow between the ribs, and netting binds 
the structure together. Bony fins with cloth 
stretched across them serve as rudders. Beneath 
this 100-foot-long wonder hangs a gondola in the 
form of an elegant but austere carriage. The gon 
dola can hold the ship's pilot plus as many as four 
other people, or up to 500 pounds of cargo. 

A whaleship accepts verbal commands only 
from its pilot, who possesses a shard of bone taken 
from the skeleton. The device has no abilities other 
than flight (MV 12, maneuverability class E). A 
whaleship can hover, and can also pivot in place up 
to 30 degrees per round. Each device is enchanted 
in such a way that it will avoid crashing despite 
foolish orders to the contrary. A whaleship is AC 0 
and can take 200 points of damage before losing its 
ability to fly. The gondola can take 80 points of dam 
age before being rendered unable to hold anything. 

A whaleship may be owned and operated by 
any guildsman. Construction requires 50,000 gp 
and six months of labor by an artificer of 9th level 
or higher, as well as a render who is needed to 
cast create shard of control (see Chapter Six) in 
the early stages of the process. 

BOMC MOLE: 

Apparatus op drilling 

This machine is built in the shape of a mole (10 
feet diameter at its rear and 25 feet long). In the tip 
of its 5-foot-diameter nose is mounted a sharp 
ened drill. Its two short forelegs are tipped with 5- 
foot-long claws. The device is designed to drill 
passages through the earth, churning up the soil 
and ejecting it from the rear of its hollow body. 

A mole is able to dig through a 10 foot cubic 
volume of earth in one turn; faster if the soil is 


loose or sandy. A tunnel of 50 feet or less in length 
can be safely dug, but for every additional 10 feet, 
there is a 20% chance that the 10 feet of tunnel be 
hind the device will collapse, trapping the mole 
until it can be freed by manually or magically re 
excavating the hole. Moles are enchanted to detect 
living creatures (not plant life) and to stop digging 
if they are in danger of striking one. They cannot be 
used as weapons. They cannot drill through solid 
stone or through any area strewn with large rocks. 

A mole is controlled with a bone shard. Each 
device has AC 0 and will withstand 100 points of 
damage before being destroyed. Only the Crown 
may build and own bone moles at a cost of 
25,000 gp and two months of labor by an 8th 
level artificer. 

LSVITATINO BAROE 

This device is a platform of wood and bone 20 feet 
wide and 40 feet long with a 2-foot-high railing. It 
is used to transport grain from the far reaches of 
the Crown farmlands to the vicinity of a gate, but 
these devices have many other useful purposes as 
well. The Crown will sometimes loan one to an 
expedition. 

The barge floats 2 feet off the ground and, 
since it is effectively weightless, it must be an 
chored when it is stopped because it cannot be 
deactivated and will drift with the wind. A barge 
can travel over any type of level terrain, including 
water, where there are no obstructions over 2 feet 
in height. Poles are used to push it along at a max 
imum MV of 6; however, if the wind is blowing 
and a sail is raised, an additional 2d6 may be 
added to the movement rate. 

The Crown owns and operates most barges, 
but any guildsman may arrange to have one built. 
Construction of a barge requires 5,000 gp and one 
month of labor by an artificer of at least 7th level 
who must be able to cast (or hire someone to cast) 
a levitate spell capable of lifting 1,500 pounds fol 
lowed immediately by a permanency spell. 

Ckarohti 

Elixirs 

Immediately following the Wasting Plague, spell- 
casters were ostracized by most of the survivors. 
During this time a class of healers came into being 
who relied upon non-magical means to assist the 
ailing. Chirurgeons found that innate properties of 
plants and minerals could be harnessed to create 
medicines with spell-like properties. 

Charonti elixirs are made by combining one or 
more ingredients with a small amount of honeyed 
wine. A chirurgeon can concoct elixirs containing 


84 • CKAPTIR five 



one dose of ingredients per experience level. Thus, 
a 3rd-level chirurgeon can create elixirs combining 
three doses of ingredients. The preparation time for 
any elixir is one hour for each different ingredient. 

The most basic elixirs are those that either heal 
or cause damage; their effects are permanent. Many 
other elixirs can be made that cause a temporary 
change in one of the drinker's basic attributes; the 
minimum duration of such an elixir is one turn. 

The basic properties of an ingredient is given 
below; combined effects are described afterward. 

Gum arabic: increases duration by one turn. 

Black oak: restores 1 point of attribute or 

mends 1 point of damage. 

Date palm: causes 1 point of damage. 

Ivy: affects Strength. 

Chalk: affects Constitution. 

Dogwood: affects Dexterity. 

Clay: affects Intelligence. 

Bone powder: affects Wisdom. 

Rose petals: affects Charisma. 

Chicory: reduces attribute by 1 point. 

Toadstool: improves attribute by 1 point. 

The only elixirs that can be concocted by a 
Ist-level chirurgeon are a simple healing potion 
and a mild poison. The healing potion, made with 
black oak, will heal 1 point of damage. The poison. 


made with date palm, causes 1 point of damage. 

A 2nd-level chirurgeon can make a double 
strength healing potion or poison by using two 
doses of the desired ingredient, and is also able to 
mix all of the basic attribute-specific elixirs in 
their weakest form. For example, an elixir con 
taining one dose of toadstool and one dose of clay 
gives the drinker a 1-point improvement in his In 
telligence score for one turn. If chicory is used in 
stead of toadstool, the attribute score is lowered 
by 1 point for one turn. Black oak in combination 
with any attribute-specific ingredient restores 1 
point of a score that has been drained by undead 
or a magical effect, but cannot raise the score be 
yond its normal maximum. 

At 3rd level, a chirurgeon can mix gum arabic 
into a basic elixir to increase its duration. A mix 
ture of chalk, toadstool, and gum arabic gives the 
drinker a 1-point boost in Constitution for two 
turns. 

Multiple doses of chicory or toadstool will 
raise or lower the ability score by a number of 
points equal to the number of doses, but no score 
(including Strength) can be raised beyond 18 or re 
duced to less than 3 by this means. Note also that 
there is a danger associated with multiple doses 
of toadstool: For every dose of toadstool beyond 
the first one that an elixir contains, the drinker 


NEW RULES 6 Tools • 85 






















































1 


must make a system shock check. If any of the 
checks are failed, the relevant attribute is reduced 
to 3 for the duration of the elixir. 

Combining two or more attribute-specific in 
gredients in the same elixir results in a useless 
mixture; an elixir with both dogwood and clay 
would be inert and have no healing properties. 
The single exception to this is an elixir that com 
bines all six attribute specific ingredients and a 
single dose of black oak. This mixture has the 
same effect as the priest spell cure disease-and 
in addition is also able to cure the plague, because 
the elixir is non-magical. 

The WAStiNO 

PLAOVE 

Over five thousand years ago, the high Charonti 
civilization was laid low by a volatile plague. The 
disease was spell-vectored, which is to say it 
could infect and be transmitted by any spell or 
enchanted item. Any individual who came in con 
tact with an infected enchantment suffered horri 
bly before dying. A few strong souls resisted the 
plague and survived exposure. The Charonti of 
today are all descendants of the survivors. 

The plague has resurfaced in a number of 
minor outbreaks over the centuries. Its form has 
changed several times, and in the last two hundred 
years it appears to have retreated entirely under 
ground, making the ruins particularly dangerous. 

Kow IS IT Spread? 

The plague is a disease that can only thrive within 
the area of effect of magical energy. It is obvious if 
a person, spell, or object is infected because of a 
patchwork of filmy glowing mottled green that 
seems to shift and flow across the areas of infec 
tion. As a guideline, anything that would radiate 
magic under the divination of a detect magic spell 
may be infectious. Further, the plague can travel 
from one spell effect to another whenever the 
spells' areas of effect intersect. 

For example, in a room, explorers might find 
two poles with permanent light spells cast upon 
them, a short sword +1, a table that has had warp 
wood cast upon it, and a hole that was made using 
a dig spell. 

The permanent light spells could be infected. 
With an area of effect of a 20-foot radius, they can 
transmit the plague only within this range. If only 
one was infected and a character carried the 
other pole to a place where the spells' areas of ef 
fect intersected, the second light spell would be 
come infected. 

If the short sword +1 is infected, it will transmit 


the plague to anyone who touches the sword or is 
struck by it. 

The table that has had warp wood cast upon it 
may be infected, because warp wood is a perma 
nent enchantment. Note that the entire table may 
not be infected, but only the part located within 
the spell's area of effect. 

The hole caused by the dig spell does not carry 
the plague. The spell allowed a caster to create the 
hole, but the magic only lasted as long as the du 
ration of the spell. 

A magical effect that passes through an in 
fected area will become infected. Thus, an arrow 
+1 fired through the radius of an infected light 
spell will become infected and pass on the plague 
to any person or magical effect it subsequently. 

A spell whose area of effect contacts an in 
fected area will expose the caster to the plague if 
the magic is of a sort that establishes a path of en 
ergy to or from the caster. For example, a wizard 
who casts detect magic upon an infected sword will 
become infected as the disease moves along the 
route of the divination back to the wizard. All div 
ination spells are of this sort, as are many spells 
of the school of invocation/evocation (such as 
magic missile) and various other spells as well. 

Animals and undead do not carry the plague. 


WHAT KAPPEMS to A 
VlCTlKf 

The plague was much more virulent at its incep 
tion, but the original survivors have passed their 
greater resistance to their descendants. A charac 
ter who encounters an infected enchantment 
must make a saving throw vs. death magic or be 
come infected. If the save is failed, any magic 
items carried by the character will become in 
fected as well. 

A successful saving throw means the charac 
ter has avoided contracting the plague, but he 
must make a saving throw again once per turn if 
he does not separate himself from exposure to 
the disease. 

If the saving throw is failed, the victim will die 
in a number of hours equal to his Constitution 
score. During this time the character will becoine 
gradually weaker, losing 1 point from each ability 
score every hour. If the victim's Strength or Intel 
ligence score reaches 0 while he is still alive, he 
will fall into a catatonic state and remain that 
way until he dies. 


Hew IS IT Taeatsd? 


'li'eatment to cure a victim or magical item card 
ing one of the varieties of the plague will vary with 
the plague strain. The most common treatment is 


8d • Ckaptis ElVl 


I 



n 


prolonged exposure of infected characters, magical 
items, or spell effects to sunlight or a sunray spell, 
which will bring recovery in ld6 units of time (roll 
ld4:1 or 2 = days, 3 = hours, 4 = turns) following a 
successful save vs. poison. The DM may create 
other treatments of his or her own. 

Side SEEEcts 

Many people who have contracted the plague and 
survived often suffer side effects. Not all of these 
are harmful, but they can persist for just a few 
days or as long as the rest of the character's life. 
There seems to be no pattern, and these effects 
vary in nature and intensity. The following are 
some of the effects recorded in the Dodecon; 

1) Physical exhaustion (loss of 1 experience level). 

2) Weakened by 1 point of Strength and Consti 
tution. 

3) Loss of voice. 

4) Slurring of speech or speech impediment. 

5) Personality change (phobias, attitude, neu 
roses). 

6) Blurring of vision or blindness. 

7) Skin feels slimy and gains a green tinge. 

8) Character exudes a noxious odor. 

9) Immune to further exposures to the plague. 

10) Immune to all nonmagical diseases. 


TK£ PLAOVE and the KNOim 

The Charonti assumed for centuries that the Wast 
ing Plague had destroyed all other sentient life in 
the world. Over time, they became convinced that 
it may have been only the Charonti themselves 
who fell victim to the disease. This remains a mat 
ter of debate, and the arrival of the Knorr on Jakan- 
dor has done little to resolve the issue. The Knorr 
can become carriers of the plague and handle in 
fected magical items, but do not suffer effects or 
symptoms of the disease. This makes them ex 
tremely dangerous, since a Knorr warrior who is 
exposed to the plague and then enters a settled 
area before being exposed to sunlight for some 
time could devastate the population overnight. 

The DM may create strains that cause some 
effect on Knorr but which have limits on its im 
pact on magic. For instance, a strain of the Wast 
ing Plague, the Pale Hand, makes Knorr who fail 
their save vs. poison become anemic-their skin 
turns pale and the white of their eyes grays. In 
game terms, the Pale Hand causes weakness so 
that all Strength and Constitution checks suffer a 
-4 penalty. However, this strain only affects magi 
cal items with a charge of +2 or better and spells 
and characters of level 2 or higher. The DM can 
limit how long an infection lasts. 



Niw Rviis B Tools • 87 











































































































































Chapter Six 


Elder spells include all of the following: 


88 • CKAPnii Six 


1st level: cantrip, charm person, comprehend lan 
guages, detect magic, hold portal, light, magic missile, 
Nefti's spell recall (a unique Charonti spell), phantas 
mal force, protection from evil, read magic, sleep 

2nd level: continual light, detect evil, detect invis 
ibility, ESP, invisibility, knock, levitate, wizard lock 
3rd level: clairaudience, clairvoyance, fly, haste, 
hold person, infravision, invisibility 10' radius, light 
ning bolt, protection from normal missiles, slow, water 
breathing 

4th level: dimension door, plant growth 
5th level: animate dead, teleport 
6th level: antimagic shell, control weather, en 
chant an item, geas, globe of invulnerability 
8th level: permanency 

LOST KlVOlC 

While magic is extremely pervasive in the culture 
of the Charonti, their body of spells is fragmented 
at best. At the height of the elder civilization, the 
elder Charonti had amassed an enormous and 
comprehensive body of knowledge about magic. 
After the plague, virtually all of this knowledge 
was lost. During the ensuing wars the magelords 
did recover many spells and invent new ones that 
have served as the foundation of present Charonti 
magic. However, the Charonti are still a long way 


tKE SPEU. REOISTPY 

The spell registry is the part of the Great Library 
of the Dodecon ^at serves as a repository for the 
collected knowledge of the reconstruction. All 
newly researched or unearthed spells should be 
registered at the Dodecon. A wizard may review 
the catalog of spells that reside in the Dodecon, 
but may not actually study any of the spells in 
order to learn them for the purpose of being able 
to cast them. All such knowledge must come from 
the character's mentor, or as a result of the wiz 
ard's encountering an existing spell during the 
course of an adventure. 

No scrolls, tablets, artifacts, or historical 
records may be removed from the Dodecon. Rare 
exceptions are made to this rule for missions of 
the Crown, only if the request to remove an item 


from 

reconstructing the 
complete body of lost knowledge, 
and it is the task of the scholars of 
the Crown to advance this recovery. 
Many high-level spells exist only in 
legend or rumor. Virtually all spells over 
3rd level are lost. 



















The 

Known Spells 


The lists that follow are taken from the current an 
nals of the Dodecon, which has recorded all spells 
that are known to exist and that may be employed 
by wizards who have learned how to cast them. At 
any given time, these lists may not include every 
spell in existence. All newly researched and recov 
ered spells are expected to be registered in the Do 
decon, but sometimes a spell does not appear in 
the registry because the queen thinks it is not pru 
dent to make its existence a matter of public 
knowledge. In addition, some colleges are rumored 
to husband some spells secretly, with or without 


Search for ka 61 c 

Though much has been recovered, there are 
many spells and magical items that remain mere 
legends. This provides the key for adventuring in 
Charonti society - the search for ancient magic. 

There are two ways the old magic may be re 
covered: searching through the mins, or through 
experimentation and research. Both have their 
challenges and chances of success, and both 
lead to opportunities for adventure. In order to 
provide many adventures, each magic quest 
should be targeted at finding one specific lost 
magical spell or item. 

Searching the Ruins 

To search the mins requires many things: knowl 
edge, time, money, resources, and luck. 

First, the Ancients records must be studied 
to find a clue about an ancient magic and where 
it might lie. Often the harvesting of magic may 
depend on some calendar event or special tim 
ing, and so everything must be carefully 
planned. Then there is the need to recmit money 
and resources to outfit the expedition to the 
mins. One's mentor, the guilds, colleges, or the 
Crown might support the effort if the informa 
tion seems really good. But in this lies the seeds 
of conflict, because rivals may learn of the expe 
dition's purpose and may try for the item them 
selves. Intrigue makes the quest worthwhile. 

And then there are the dangers of the mins 
to face. There will be wards, guardians, wild 
beasts, dangers, and even the Wasting Plague to 
face. 


ap 
proved 
by the 
Vizier, to 
whom the 
High Librar 
ian reports. Pe 
titions by the 
Court or the Council 
to make a resource 
available to a particular 
mission are normally ap 
proved if there is no danger 
of losing a precious part of 
Charonti heritage. 


Scholarly Research 

Analytical experimentation faces similar chal 
lenges to searching the ruins. First, an idea must 
be conceived and a relation to current knowledge 
defined. Then intelligence, time, money, resources, 
magical components, and luck are needed. 

Money and knowledge must be gained 
through supporters and investigation. And then 
there are the arcane components necessary to 
complete the magic; harvesting these compo 
nents will require precise calendar-event timing 
and dangerous hunting. 


Results? 

The end results are never certain or guaranteed, 
and make for even more adventure excitement. 

Things may not be what they seem. Misin 
formation (poor translations) can result in not 
finding what was expected. Miscalculations or 
sabotage can result in reverse effects, partial ef 
fects, unpredictable effects, misfires and more. 
And usually such cormption results in a loss of 
one's investment. Finally, there is always the 
chance that any magic will be infected by some 
strain of the Wasting Plague, and then the trea 
sure is like a poisoned jewel. 

Whatever the case, magic means adven 
tures! 


Niw Spills and kadic • 89 






the sanction of the queen. Many new and exciting 
forms of magic await discovery among the ruins, 
but they will only be uncovered by characters who 
are willing to brave the dangers there. 

The following listed spells are grouped by 


schools. Those given in italic type are elder spells 
and may be learned by any Charonti wizard. All 
other spells are specialty spells and may only be 
learned by specialists of the appropriate school 
(given in parentheses after the name of the school). 


Known Spell lists 

Spells not listed below are unknown and must be either discovered in the ruins or researched in 
the lab. Many high level spells remain lost. 


Abjuration (Wardens) 

1st level; alarm, cantrip, protection from evil, 
protection from cantrips 
2nd level; protection from interruption, 
protection from supernatural 
3rd level; dispel magic, nondetection, pro 
tection from evil 10' radius, protection 
from harm, protection from normal missiles 
4th level; remove curse 
6th level; antimagic shell, globe of invulnera 
bility 

Alteration (Porters) 

1st level; cantrip, color spray, comprehend 
languages, erase, feather fall, hold portal, 
light, shocking grasp, spider chmb 
2nd level; continual light, darkness 15' 
radius, knock, levitate, magic mouth, wiz 
ard lock 

3rd level; blink, explosive runes, fly, haste, 
in/rauision, Melfs minute meteors, slow, 
water breathing, wraithform 
4th level; dimension door, plant growth 
5th level; teleport 

6th level; control weather, guards and wards 
8th level; permanency 

Conjuration/Summoning (Shadow Mages) 

1st level; armor, cantrip, find familiar, 
grease, Ne/ti's spell recall, unseen servant 
2nd level; glitterdust, summon swarm 
3rd level; flame arrow, monster summon 
ing I, sepia snake sigil, summon person 

Enchantment/Charm (Artificers) 

1st level; cantrip, charm person, friends, hyp 
notism, sleep, taunt 

2nd level; ambulate object, bind, forget, im 
proved concentration, ray of enfeeble- 
ment, repair machine, scare, Tasha's 
uncontrollable hideous laughter 
3rd level; enchant automaton, hold person, 
imbue with proficiency, suggestion 
6th level; enchant an item, geas 


Illusion/Phantasm (Sandmen) 

1st level; audible glamer, cantrip, change 
self, document, phantasmal force, spook, 
ventriloquism 

2nd level; blindness, blur, hypnotic pattern, 
improved phantasmal force, inuisibility, 
misdirection 

3rd level; inuisibility 10' radius, remote docu 
ment, spectral force, wraithform 
4th level; minor creation 
5th level; advanced illusion 

Invocation/Evocation (Galvanists) 

1st level; alarm, cantrip, magic missile, shield, 
shocking grasp*. Tenser's floating disc, 
wall of fog 

2nd level: flaming sphere, stinking cloud 
3rd level; galvanic amnesia, lightning bolt, 
Melfs minute meteors 
4th level; galvanize dead 
5th level: spark of life, spellbum, wall of 
force 

* In the Charonti frame of reference, this spell 
is of the school of invocation as well as alter 
ation. 

Lesser/Greater Divination (Finders) 

1st level: cantrip, detect magic, detect un 
dead, identify, read magic 
2nd level: detect charming, detect evil, detect 
inuisibility, ESP, know alignment, locate 
object, sonic image 

3rd level: clairaudience, clairvoyance, exam 
ine memory, steal spell 
6th level: legend lore, true seeing 

Necromancy (Renders) 

1st level: cantrip, chill touch, create shard of 
control, detect undead, rend the dead 
2nd level; bone to steel, resistance to turn 
ing, spectral hand, wait for rending 
3rd level: feign death, hold undead, vam- 
piric touch, speak with dead 
5th level: animate dead, transmigration 
7th level; control undead 


90 • Chaptir Six 





Specialists treat elder spells of their school like a 
specialty spell. Thus, even though the alteration 
spell light is an elder spell that can be learned by 
any wizard, a Porter (specialist in the school of al 
teration) treats it as a specialty spell for purposes 
of being able to carry extra spells, gaining saving 
throw bonuses, learning the spell, and so forth. 

New spells are listed in bold type and are de 
scribed later in this chapter. 

Any spell not listed here is considered offi 
cially lost. It may or may not exist among the 
ruins or in the safekeeping of the Crown. 

NEW WIZARD 

Spells 

]PlRST-LSV£L SPSLLS 

Create Shard of Control (Necromancy) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 turn 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 zombie/ 
skeleton 

Duration: Permanent Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell allows a render to extract a shard of 
bone from a serathi (zombie) or serataar (skele 
ton), the possession of which gives its owner con 
trol over that undead. The creature will execute to 
the best of its ability the verbal commands of any 
person who holds its shard. This shard does not 
enable the undead to communicate, nor to under 
stand complex commands. 

Only one shard can be in effect at any time 
for a single creature; if a second one is created, 
the first becomes inert. This spell may be used to 
replace a shard that was created during the cast 
ing of the spell rend the dead. However, once a 
shard has been created for a creature it will not 
willingly allow a new shard to be created by a 
render whose control it is not already under. It 
will fight until it is destroyed, unless it is magi 
cally held or somehow restrained. The creature 
will always obey the holder of the most recent 
shard created to control it. 

Document (Illusion/Phantasm) 

Range: Special Casting Time: 1 rd. 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: Caster 
Duration: 1 hr./level Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows a sandman to record a visual 
and aural document of the events he witnesses, 
which can then be recreated later in the form of 
an illusion. Once the spell is cast, the wizard be 


gins to accumulate an accurate record of every 
thing he sees and hears for a number of hours 
equal to the level of the caster. The documenting 
process cannot be interrupted (as the casting of 
the spell can be), and the caster need not concen 
trate to maintain the accumulation of informa 
tion. The sandman may cast other spells and 
engage in combat without disturbing the spell ef 
fect. He may stop a document in process at any 
time but may not restart it. The information accu 
mulated to that point will still be available. 

Once a document is completed, it continues to 
occupy a spell slot in the sandman's memory as a 
repository of the recorded information. He may 
keep the information stored there as long as the 
spell slot is left open and not used to memorize 
another spell. At any time the sandman may re 
play the stored information as an illusory con 
struct of images and sound, projecting the images 
at a distance of up to 10 yards per level of the 
caster. He may not alter the sounds or images in 
any other way. Once the replay has begun, the doc 
ument will be played back in its entirety unless the 
illusion is dispelled by a warden of higher level 
than the sandman who created the illusion. As 
long as the spell slot it occupies remains unused, 
the sandman may replay the recorded document 
once per day. If the sandman ever memorizes a 
spell that would need to be stored in that slot, the 
information is lost. 

At 8th level a sandman may copy a recorded 
document onto a scroll, which causes the illusion 
to be lost from memory but allows another person 
to later call up the illusion from the scroll. 

Nefti's Spell Recall (Conjuration/Summoning) 
Range: 0 Casting Time: 1 turn 

Components: V, S, M Area of Effect: Caster 
Duration: 1 day Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows a wizard to select spells for cast 
ing during the course of a day rather than commit 
them to memory when the day begins. This spell, 
however, must be memorized for that ability to be 
used. 

Unlike most spells, Nefti's spell recall is treated 
as a spell of varying level depending upon the 
spell level that the wizard seeks to affect. For ex 
ample, if a spell-caster wants flexibility with re 
gard to which Ist-level spells he may cast during 
the day, he memorizes Ne/ti's spell recall as a Ist- 
level spell-after which he is not required to com 
mit any other Ist-level spells to memory. Any 
other Ist-level spell available to the wizard may 
be cast at any time during the next 24 hours. The 
caster is limited only by the number of unused 
spell slots remaining. For instance, a 5th-level 
specialist who casts Nefti's spell recall as a Ist-level 


Miw Spills ahd kaoic • 91 


the sanction of the queen. Many new and exciting 
fornis of magic await discovery among the ruins, 
but they will only be uncovered by characters who 
are willing to brave the dangers there. 

The following listed spells are grouped by 


schools. Those given in italic type are elder spells 
and may be learned by any Charonti wizard. All 
other spells are specialty spells and may only be 
learned by specialists of the appropriate school 
(given in parentheses after the name of the school). 


Known Spell Lists 

Spells not listed below are unknown and must be either discovered in the ruins or researched in 
the lab. Many high level spells remain lost. 


Abjuration (Wardens) 

1st level: alarm, cantrip, protection from cuil, 
protection from cantrips 
2nd level: protection from interruption, 
protection from supernatural 
3rd level: dispel magic, nondetection, pro 
tection from evil 10' radius, protection 
from harm, protection from normal missiles 
4th level: remove curse 
6th level: antimagic shell, globe of invulnera 
bility 

Alteration (Porters) 

1st level: cantrip, color spray, comprehend 
languages, erase, feather fall, hold portal, 
light, shocking grasp, spider climb 
2nd level: continual light, darkness 15' 
radius, knock, levitate, magic mouth, wiz 
ard lock 

3rd level: blink, explosive runes, fly, haste, 
infravision, Melfs minute meteors, slow, 
water breathing, wraithform 
4th level: dimension door, plant growth 
5th level: teleport 

6th level: control weather, guards and wards 
8th level: permanency 

Conjuration/Summoning (Shadow Mages) 

1st level: armor, cantrip, find familiar, 
grease, N^'s spell recall, unseen servant 
2nd level: glitterdust, summon swarm 
3rd level: flame arrow, monster summon 
ing I, sepia snake sigil, summon person 

Enchantment/Charm (Artificers) 

1st level: cantrip, charm person, friends, hyp 
notism, sleep, taunt 

2nd level: ambulate object, bind, forget, im 
proved concentration, ray of enfeeble- 
ment, repair machine, scare, Tasha's 
uncontrollable hideous laughter 
3rd level: enchant automaton, hold person, 
imbue with proficiency, suggestion 
6th level: enchant an item, geas 


Illusion/Phantasm (Sandmen) 

1st level: audible glamer, cantrip, change 
self, document, phantasmal force, spook, 
ventriloquism 

2nd level: blindness, blur, hypnotic pattern, 
improved phantasmal force, invisibility, 
misdirection 

3rd level: invisibility 10' radius, remote docu 
ment, spectral force, wraithform 
4th level: minor creation 
5th level: advanced illusion 

Invocation/Evocation (Galvanists) 

1st level: alarm, cantrip, magic missile, shield, 
shocking grasp*. Tenser's floating disc, 
wall of fog 

2nd level: flaming sphere, stinking cloud 
3rd level: galvanic amnesia, lightning bolt, 
Melfs minute meteors 
4th level: galvanize dead 
5th level: spark of life, spellbum, wall of 
force 

* In the Charonti frame of reference, this spell 
is of the school of invocation as well as alter 
ation. 

Lesser/Greater Divination (Finders) 

1st level: cantrip, detect magic, detect un 
dead, identify, read magic 
2nd level: detect charming, detect evil, detect 
invisibility, ESP, know alignment, locate 
object, sonic image 

3rd level: clairaudience, clairvoyance, exam 
ine memory, steal spell 
6th level: legend lore, true seeing 

Necromancy (Renders) 

1st level: cantrip, chill touch, create shard of 
control, detect undead, rend the dead 
2nd level: bone to steel, resistance to turn 
ing, spectral hand, wait for rending 
3rd level: feign death, hold undead, vam- 
piric touch, speak with dead 
5th level: animate dead, transmigration 
7th level: control undead 


90 • Chaptir Six 






Specialists treat elder spells of their school like a 
specialty spell. Thus, even though the alteration 
spell light is an elder spell that can be learned by 
any wizard, a Porter (specialist in the school of al 
teration) treats it as a specialty spell for purposes 
of being able to carry extra spells, gaining saving 
throw bonuses, learning the spell, and so forth. 

New spells are listed in bold type and are de 
scribed later in this chapter. 

Any spell not listed here is considered offi 
cially lost. It may or may not exist among the 
ruins or in the safekeeping of the Crown. 

NEW WlZASD 

Spells 

f iRST-uvEL Spells 

Create Shard of Control (Necromancy) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 turn 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 zombie/ 
skeleton 

Duration: Permanent Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell allows a render to extract a shard of 
bone from a serathi (zombie) or serataar (skele 
ton), the possession of which gives its owner con 
trol over that undead. The creature will execute to 
the best of its ability the verbal commands of any 
person who holds its shard. This shard does not 
enable the undead to communicate, nor to under 
stand complex commands. 

Only one shard can be in effect at any time 
for a single creature; if a second one is created, 
the first becomes inert. This spell may be used to 
replace a shard that was created during the cast 
ing of the spell rend the dead. However, once a 
shard has been created for a creature it will not 
willingly allow a new shard to be created by a 
render whose control it is not already under. It 
will fight until it is destroyed, unless it is magi 
cally held or somehow restrained. The creature 
will always obey the holder of the most recent 
shard created to control it. 

Document (Illusion/Phantasm) 

Range: Special Casting Time: 1 rd. 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: Caster 
Duration: 1 hr./level Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows a sandman to record a visual 
and aural document of the events he witnesses, 
which can then be recreated later in the form of 
an illusion. Once the spell is cast, the wizard be 


gins to accumulate an accurate record of every 
thing he sees and hears for a number of hours 
equal to the level of the caster. The documenting 
process cannot be interrupted (as the casting of 
the spell can be), and the caster need not concen 
trate to maintain the accumulation of informa 
tion. The sandman may cast other spells and 
engage in combat without disturbing the spell ef 
fect. He may stop a document in process at any 
time but may not restart it. The information accu 
mulated to that point will still be available. 

Once a document is completed, it continues to 
occupy a spell slot in the sandman's memory as a 
repository of the recorded information. He may 
keep the information stored there as long as the 
spell slot is left open and not used to memorize 
another spell. At any time the sandman may re 
play the stored information as an illusory con 
struct of images and sound, projecting the images 
at a distance of up to 10 yards per level of 5ie 
caster. He may not alter the sounds or images in 
any other way. Once the replay has begun, the doc 
ument Avill be played back in its entirety unless the 
illusion is dispelled by a warden of higher level 
than the sandman who created the illusion. As 
long as the spell slot it occupies remains unused, 
the sandman may replay the recorded document 
once per day. If the sandman ever memorizes a 
spell that would need to be stored in that slot, the 
information is lost. 

At 8th level a sandman may copy a recorded 
document onto a scroll, which causes the illusion 
to be lost from memory but allows another person 
to later call up the illusion from the scroll. 

Nefti's Spell Recall (Conjuration/Summoning) 

Range: 0 Casting Time: 1 turn 

Components: V, S, M Area of Effect: Caster 
Duration: 1 day Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows a wizard to select spells for cast 
ing during the course of a day rather than commit 
them to memory when the day begins. This spell, 
however, must be memorized for that ability to be 
used. 

Unlike most spells, Nefti's spelt recall is treated 
as a spell of varying level depending upon the 
spell level that the wizard seeks to affect. For ex 
ample, if a spell-caster wants flexibility with re 
gard to which Ist-level spells he may cast during 
the day, he memorizes Ne/ti's spell recall as a Ist- 
level spell-after which he is not required to com 
mit any other Ist-level spells to memory. Any 
other Ist-level spell available to the wizard may 
be cast at any time during the next 24 hours. The 
caster is limited only by the number of unused 
spell slots remaining. For instance, a 5th-level 
specialist who casts Ne/ti's spell recall as a Ist-level 


Niw Spills and kaoic • 91 


spell would have four slots unused. The next day, 
he may decide what spell is dedicated to each of 
those four slots. He may cast the same spell re 
peatedly if desired. 

This spell may be memorized more than once, 
treating it as a spell of a different level each time. 
For example, if a caster wants flexibility with both 
his 1st- and 2nd-level spells, he may memorize it 
twice, filling a Ist-level and a 2nd-level slot. The 
effect of the spell ends prematurely if the wizard 
pauses to memorize any spells while it is still in 
effect. 

The material component for this spell is the 
wizard's spell book, which must be in his posses 
sion for him to be able to cast any spell(s) of the 
level(s) at which Nejti's spell recall was memorized. 

Rend the Dead (Necromancy) 

Range: Touch Casting Time; 8 hrs. 

Components: V, S, M Area of Effect: 1 creature 
Duration: Permanent Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell allows a render to perform a ritual of 
distillation on human corpse. The ritual requires 
eight hours and must be started within three days 
of the person's death. The rending process allows 
the wizard to create a serathi or serataar as well 
as a shard of control that is used to control the 
creature. (See the spell create shard of control, de 
scribed earlier in this chapter.) A 5th level render 
may use this spell to create a shaddoc. 

Special note: The effect and function of rend 
the dead is similar to the elder spell animate dead - 
both allow for the creation of skeletons and zom 
bies-but there are two important differences 
between animate dead and the way the spell is de 
scribed in the Player's Handbook: 

1. Animate dead does not give the caster auto 
matic control over the undead creature(s) that 
are created. The skeletons or zombies brought 
into existence cannot move or perform any tasks 
until create shard of control is used on each of 
them. The principal function of animate dead in 
Charonti culture is to prepare several bodies at 
one time for eventual use as Charonath, whereas 
each casting of rend the dead is only effective on a 
single creature. 

2. Although such magic is within the capabili 
ties of the spell, no dutihil Charonti will ever use 
animate dead on any subject other than Charonti. 
Anyone who is caught animating any other type of 
creature will be stripped of his ability to cast the 
spell and put under a geas that prevents him from 
ever learning the spell again, and the creatures 
that were created will be summarily destroyed. 


Second-levcl Spells 

Ambulate Object (Enchantment/Charm) 

Range: Touch Casting Time; 1 rd. 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 object 
Duration; 1 day/level Saving Throw: None 

An artificer can make an ambulatory version of 
any item of miscellaneous equipment by using 
this spell. The item must be outfitted with two or 
more small legs to enable it to move. This manu 
facturing process, which must be undertaken be 
fore the spell is cast, requires one day for every 10 
gp in value of the finished product (for example, 2 
days for a large chest but only half a day for a 
bucket). 

An object is activated and deactivated by a 
command word. When activated, it will respond 
to any human voice and will follow simple in 
structions that require no decision-making, such 
as, "Follow me," "Go to the bedroom," or "Wait here 
until I return." An ambulatory object has a maxi 
mum MV rate of 6. Such items cannot be ordered 
to attack, but positioning them in the way of pur 
suers may serve as an obstacle. These devices are 
not stealthy and tend to make noise when mov 
ing about, which generally prevents them from 
being effectively used to harm people by tripping 
or pushing them. 

The object will continue to respond to in 
structions for 1 day per level of the spell-caster, 
after which it becomes inert and must be en 
chanted again (but no time is needed to manufac 
ture and install the legs, which are already in 
place). A permanency spell may be used in con 
junction with this spell to avoid having to cast it 
repeatedly on the same object. 

This is also the spell an artificer uses to acti 
vate a clockwork familiar after construction of the 
item is completed. See Artificer kit in Chapter 
Three. 

Bone to Steel (Necromancy) 

Range; Touch Casting Time: 1 turn 

Components: V, S Area of Effect; 1 cu. ft./level 
Duration: Permanent Saving Throw; None 

This spell causes bone to become as strong and 
hard as steel. It alters the appearance of the bone 
only in giving it a slightly glossy sheen. The spell 
is used most commonly to increase the strength 
of bone weapons. Also, casting this spell on an an 
imated skeleton or a machine made of bone im 
proves its natural Armor Class by 2 points. 


98 • Ckaptsr Six 


Detect Charming (Divination) 

Range: 0 Casting Time: 2 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: lO-ft wide path 
Duration: 5 rds./level Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell reveals the existence of enchantments, 
charms, psionics, and mind-affecting magic that 
controls or influences a creature's behavior. When 
a finder casts detect charming, he is able to see a 
faint red glow emanating from the eyes of any 
charmed creature within the area of effect. It does 
not reveal the source of the enchantment, nor 
does it affect the enchantment in any way. The 
detection is effective along a 10-foot-wide path 
limited to line of sight. 

Improved Concentration (Enchantment/Charm) 
Range: Touch Casting Time: 5 

Components: V, S, M Area of Effect: Touch 
Duration: 1 rd./level Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows an artificer to improve another 
person's ability to successfully read a particular 
wizard spell scroll, which must be in the posses 
sion of the recipient when the spell is cast. For 
this spell to succeed, the recipient must be able to 
read magic, but need not have the ability to use 
wizard scrolls. While under the influence of this 
spell, the recipient gains a +5% bonus per level of 
the caster to successfully use the scroll. This 
bonus can never improve the chance of success 
above 95%. The spell is only effective if the level of 
the scroll spell is less than or equal to the highest- 
level spell the artificer could normally cast. 

The material component is a piece of paper. 

Protection From Interruption (Abjuration) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 rd. 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 wizard 
Duration: 1 rd. Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows the recipient to attain a degree 
of concentration so that any spell he casts the fol 
lowing round is difficult to interrupt. If a warden 
completes the protection jrom interruption spell suc 
cessfully (and without interruption), the recipient 
receives a saving throw vs. spell to negate the ef 
fect of any event in the next round that would or 
dinarily disrupt a spell. The event still transpires, 
but if the saving throw succeeds then the wizard's 
concentration is not broken-unless the event 
causes damage that reduces the wizard to 0 or 
fewer hit points. A failed saving throw simply in 
dicates that concentration has been broken and 
the spell is lost as it would be normally. 


Protection From Supernatural (Abjuration) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 

Components: V, S, M Area of Effect: 1 creature 
Duration: 2 rds./level Saving Throw: None 

This spell protects the recipient from the effects 
of natives of the supernatural realm and their ser 
vants in the material world. Wfiien cast, the spell 
creates a magical barrier around the recipient at a 
distance of 1 foot. The barrier moves with the re 
cipient. 

All attacks made against the protected crea 
ture by priests who serve creatures of the super 
natural or by creatures who are not native to the 
material world are made with -2 penalties to their 
attack rolls; any saving throws allowed by such at 
tacks are made with a +2 bonus. 

An attempt by a supernatural being to exer 
cise magical control over the protected creature is 
blocked by this spell, if such an attempt involves 
magic equal to or lower in level than this spell 
(such as charm person, forget, command, and en 
thrall). 

While protected by this spell, a creature can 
not be summoned away from the material realm. 

The spell ends prematurely if the protected 
creature makes a melee attack against a super 
natural creature or attempts to force the barrier 
against it. 

To cast this spell, the wizard must trace a 3- 
foot-diameter circle on the ground with 20 gp 
worth of powdered gold. 

Repair Machine (Enchantment/Charm) 

Reversible 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 5 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 object 
Duration: Permanent Saving Throw: None 

When casting this spell and laying his hands 
upon a damaged machine, automaton, or object, 
an artificer causes ld6 points of damage to be re 
paired. Note that this spell is not effective on un 
dead. 

The reverse of this spell, damage machine, in 
flicts ld6 points of damage. If the target of the 
spell tries to avoid the touch, an attack roll is 
needed to determine if the caster strikes the ob 
ject and causes the injury. 

Resistance to "niming (Necromancy) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 turn 

Components: V, S, M Area of Effect: 1 cu. ft./level 
Duration: Until dispelled Saving Throw: None 

This spell gives any undead creature upon 
which it is cast a saving throw vs. spell to avoid 
being turned by a priest. If the saving throw is 


NSW Spells and kaoic • 9S 


failed, the undead creature can be turned, con 
trolled, or dispelled normally. If the creature 
makes a successful saving throw, it should be 
treated as though the character attempting to in 
fluence the undead creature simply failed. The 
magic is dispelled when a saving throw is at 
tempted, whether or not it succeeds. 

Sonic Image (Divination) 

Range: 0 Casting Time: 2 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 120-yd. radius 
Duration: 2 rds. Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows a finder to map the solid struc 
tures within the spell's area of effect. When cast 
the wizard is instantly aware of the location of ob 
jects having the density of earth, stone, or metal 
in the horizontal plane along his line of sight up 
to the limit of the area of effect. This information 
is revealed only for a level plane; the caster can 
not gain information about structures above or 
below him by tilting his head. Information is re 
vealed only about the object or surface nearest to 
the caster. This spell does not enable him to "see 
through" a stone wall-^but it would tell him about 
the existence of another distant wall if the spell is 
directed so that it passes through an open door 
way in the near wall. Wood and organic organ 
isms are not revealed by this spell, nor are 
elemental forces such as fire or water. 

Wait for Rending (Necromancy) 

Reversible 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 5 rounds 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 creature 
Duration: 1 day/level Saving Throw; None 

This spell allows a render to extend the amount 
of time that a corpse may lie dormant before the 
rending process begins. Normally, a corpse cannot 
be Tended properly if the ritual is not begun within 
three days of the death. After that time an ordi 
nary animate dead spell can still be used, but the 
animated creature will not be a true Charonath 
and cannot be enhanced by enchanted gems, nor 
is there any hope of distilling a shaddoc if the 
corpse is not rended. This spell extends the time 
before which the corpse must be rcndcd by one 
day per experience level of the caster. It may be 
cast repeatedly on one corpse, but each attempt 
after the first will reduce the render's chance of 
successfully rending the corpse by 10%. 

A single casting of the reverse of this spell, 
never rending, destroys any hope of rending a char 
acter regardless of how long he or she has been 
dead. 


Tkird'Ievel Spells 

Enchant Automaton (Enchantment/Charm) 

Range; Touch Casting Time: 1 rd. 

Components: V, S, M Area of Effect; 1 item 
Duration; Special Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows an artificer to animate and con 
trol a construct of bone and metal. These crea 
tures are created for the purpose of performing 
simple manual labor, and may be used for other 
more elaborate tasks when further enchanted by 
imbue with proficiency. 

Automatons are normally constructed to look 
like fanciful bone animals or humanoid skele 
tons. They are often provided with extra limbs for 
the purpose of performing a particular task. 

An automaton has the combat abilities of a 
skeleton, except that its movement rate is only 6. 
An automaton will obey the simple commands of 
the character who enchants it. The construct is 
not an undead creature, which means it cannot be 
turned and does not detect as undead. Even an 
automaton having a humanoid shape is unlikely 
to be mistaken for an undead skeleton because of 
its elaborate construction. 

To keep an automaton under his control, a 
wizard must keep one spell slot open in his mem 
ory. The automaton will function until destroyed 
or until the wizard decides to memorize a spell 
that occupies the empty slot, whereupon the con 
struct will become inert. It must be enchanted 
again through the casting of this spell before it 
can be controlled again. It is possible for a wizard 
to enchant and control a number of automatons 
equal to his total number of spell slots, but in 
such a case the character will not be able to mem 
orize any spells while they are active. At 10th level 
a wizard need no longer dedicate spell slots to 
controlling his automatons. 

The material component for this spell is a 
fully assembled automaton. 

Examine Memory pivination) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 

Components; S, M Area of Effect: 1 wizard 
Duration: 1 rd. Saving Throw: Neg. 

The examine memory spell allows a finder to deter 
mine what spells another wizard has memorized. 
The caster must be holding or carrying a posses 
sion of the intended target and must touch the 
target at the instant when the spell is cast. If the 
target fails his or her saving throw, the caster im 
mediately knows which spells the other person 
has recently memorized (not including spells that 
have been cast already that day and are no longer 


94 • Chaptir Six 


memorized). If the saving throw succeeds, the 
caster learns nothing. 

Galvanic Amnesia (Invocation/Evocation) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 5 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 person 
Duration: Special Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell allows a galvanist to use powerful cur 
rents of electricity to induce a state of amnesia in 
a person. If the intended target fails his saving 
throw, he will not remember who he is or what 
his purpose may be. He will not recall any spells 
he may have memorized. The victim will under 
stand ^e basic principles of society and the oper 
ation of common objects, but will have no 
weapon or non-weapon proficiencies. 

At the end of every hour during which the vic 
tim has remains awake, he is allowed a Wisdom 
ability check to determine if his memory returns, 
with a positive modifier to the die roll of 1 point 
for each level of the caster above 5th. For instance, 
if a lOth-level galvanist uses this spell on a victim 
with a Wisdom of 16, an unmodified die roll of 11 
or lower is needed to avoid the effects of the spell. 
The priest spells cure disease and heal will negate 
the amnesia. 

The material component for this spell is two 
pieces of cloth soaked in alcohol that are held 
against the target's temples during the casting of 
this spell. 

Imbue With Proficiency (Enchantment/Charm) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 rd. 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 automaton 
Duration: Special Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows an artificer to give an automaton 
any single non-weapon proficiency for which the 
relevant ability is a physical one (Strength, Dex 
terity, or Constitution). The lone exception is En 
durance, which an automaton is not capable of 
possessing. The automaton must make a success 
ful proficiency check to employ the ability. When 
an artificer reaches 10th level, he may choose to 
have an automaton's proficiency checks made 
against his Intelligence, instead of the relevant 
ability that corresponds to the proficiency. 

At 5th level an artificer may imbue an au 
tomaton with a proficiency for a period of 1 hour 
per level of the wizard, minus 2 hours for each 
slot required by the skill. At 7th level the spell 
lasts for a period of days equal to that number, 
and at 10th level the spell lasts for that number of 
weeks. For instance, a 7th-level artificer can 
imbue an automaton with Set Snares for a period 
of 3 days (7 minus [2x2 slots]). 

The strain of this spell upon an automaton is 


tremendous. At the end of the spell's duration, the 
automaton suffers ld4 points of damage and be 
comes inert. An artificer must fix the damage 
(using repair machine) and re-enchant the automa 
ton before this spell can be used upon it again. 

Protection From Harm (Abjuration) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 8 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 creature 
Duration: 1 tum/level Saving Throw: None 

This spell creates a magical barrier around the 
target that absorbs any normeil physical damage 
directed at the caster for one round before dissi 
pating. The barrier moves with the recipient at a 
range of 1 foot. Any damage that would be deliv 
ered by physical attacks or falling is negated. 
However, the barrier drops at the end of the first 
round in which it absorbs any damage. Thus, if a 
roof collapsed on someone who was protected, 
the initial crushing damage would be avoided, but 
the weight of the roof would still bear down on 
that person after the barrier had dissipated. The 
spell does not protect the recipient from spell ef 
fects that cause damage (and the barrier is not 
dissipated by damage of this sort), but it will block 
magical weapons for one round. 

Remote Document (Illusion/Phantasm) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 turn 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 object 
Duration: 1 hr./level Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows a sandman to use a nonliving 
object to record and later display images and 
sounds to which it is exposed. Beginning in the 
round after the casting is completed, the object 
will keep a record of the light and sound sur 
rounding it at a distance of 20 feet for the dura 
tion of the spell. The information will be retained 
in the object as long the sandman does not mem 
orize a spell to fill the slot that had been occupied 
by remote document before it was cast. If the wizard 
does memorize a spell in the vacant slot, the ob 
ject will lose the information it has stored. 

If the spell slot is kept open, the object will re 
play the information it has collected in the form 
of an illusion whenever the wizard touches the 
object and wills it to reveal what it has recorded. 
The illusion will be centered on the object and 
will fill a 20-foot-radius area around the object. If 
the illusion is replayed inside an area too small to 
contain the entire recording, only the part that 
fits within that area will be seen and heard. 

At 8th level a sandman may assign a com 
mand word to the object that will allow anyone to 
trigger the projection of the illusion by uttering it. 

An object affected by this spell will radiate 


HIW SpSUS and HAfrlC • 95 


magic. Documenting is a form of scrying. Charac 
ters protected by nondetection will not show up in 
the replay of the information, although the conse 
quences of their actions will certainly be 
recorded. 

Charonath and automatons may be invested 
with this spell, and may move while recording im 
ages. 

Speak With Dead (Necromancy) 

Range: 0 Casting Time: 1 turn 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 creature 

Duration: Special Saving Throw: Special 

Upon casting speak with dead, a render is able to 
ask several questions of a dead creature in a set 
period of time and receive answers according to 
the knowledge of that creature. This spell is iden 
tical to the 3rd-level priest spell of the same 
name, except the wizard needs no material com 
ponent. 

Steal Spell (Divination) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 

Components: S, M Area of Effect: 1 creature 

Duration: 1 rd. Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell allows a finder to remove a spell from 
another wizard's memory. The caster must know 
the identity and effects of the spell that is being 
stolen (through the casting of examine memory), 
but need not actually know how to cast the spell. 

If the target fails the saving throw and the 
spell is one that the caster knows, then the spell 
is removed from the target's mind and placed in 
the caster's memory, treated as a temporary 
bonus spell. It may be cast at any time thereafter 
as long as the caster has the material components 
to do so. 

If the stolen spell is one that the caster is ca 
pable of using, but the caster has not yet learned 
the spell, it will be placed in the caster's memory 
only if (a) there is an open spell slot available and 
(b) the caster makes a successful system shock 
check. If either of these conditions is not true, the 
spell is lost, and, in addition, if the check is failed, 
the caster suffers ld6 points of damage. 

If the stolen spell is one that the caster cannot 
use (a specialty spell of another school), it is re 
moved from the target's memory and no other ef 
fect occurs. 

The material component for this spell is a 
possession belonging to the intended target. 


Summon Person (Conjuration/Summoning) 

Range: Unlimited Casting Time: 5 

Components: V, S, M Area of Effect: Special 
Duration: 2 rds. +1 rd./ Saving Throw: Neg. 

level 

By casting this spell, a shadow mage is able to 
magically summon a specific individual from any 
other location in the material world. If an unwill 
ing target of the spell makes a successful saving 
throw vs. spell, he remains wherever he is. If the 
saving throw fails (or if the recipient is willing), 
the summoned individual appears 10 feet in front 
of the caster. There is a 1-point penalty or bonus 
to the saving throw for each level of difference be 
tween the caster and the target. Thus, a 9th-level 
character would have a 4-point bonus to his sav 
ing throw if summoned by a 5th-level wizard. The 
individual summoned must be a person that the 
caster has touched. The target of the spell is in no 
way under the control or command of the caster. 

To cast this spell, the wizard must stand 
within a 10-foot-diameter circle of bone ash. This 
circle serves to protect the caster from the sum 
moned individual, who cannot cross the line of 
ash or launch physical attacks across the line. The 
caster gains a +4 bonus to saving throws against 
spells cast by the summoned person. If the caster 
leaves the circle, the summoned person may at 
tack physically or magically without penalty. 

Any damage suffered by the summoned per 
son while affected by this spell is also suffered by 
the summoning wizard. At the end of the spell's 
duration, the target returns to wherever he was 
summoned from. (The caster may end the spell 
prematurely if desired.) Note that a dead or un 
conscious person cannot be summoned. 

The material component for this spell is a 
possession of the person being summoned. 

f ouRTK-uvEL Spells 

Galvanize Dead (Invocation/Evocation) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 5 rds. 

Components: V, S, M Area of Effect: 1 creature 
Duration: 1 hr./level Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows a galvanist to temporarily ani 
mate a human corpse that will function like a 
common zombie. The magic causes the dead 
creature to obey the simple commands of the 
caster. The creature remains animated for a num 
ber of hours equal to the wizard's level, after 
which it will collapse into charred dust. The re 
mains of a galvanic zombie cannot be reani 
mated. A galvanic zombie is treated as a common 
zombie (2 HD) regardless of the race or level of the 
individual whose corpse is animated. 


96 • Ckaphr Six 


Galvanized zombies cannot be turned by 
priests. They are not Charonath and may not use 
enchanted gems of the Charonath to enhance 
their abilities. 

The material component for this spell is a pair 
of frog's legs. 

fiFTK-LEvEL Spells 

Spark of Life (Invocation/Evocation) 

Range; Touch Casting Time; 1 

Components; S, M Area of Effect; 1 character 
Duration; Special Saving Throw; Special 

This spell allows a galvanist to restore life to a 
dead human. The magic will not work on some 
one who has been dead for a number of days 
greater than the caster's level. 

The body of the person must be whole, or oth 
erwise missing parts remain missing. Likewise, 
other ills such as poison or disease are not 
negated. The person raised from the dead loses 2 
points of Intelligence and must roll a successful 
system shock check to survive the ordeal. Fur 
thermore, the raised person is weak and needs a 
minimum of a full day of bed rest for each day or 
fraction thereof that he was dead. The raised 
character is fully restored in hit points, however. A 
person raised by the spark of li/e will also suffer 
from amnesia for a number of days equal to the 
time the character was dead. 

The material component for this spell is a 
piece of copper that is placed on the subject's 
chest. 

Spellbum (Invocation/Evocation) 

Range; Touch Casting Time; 5 

Components; V, S, M Area of Effect; 1 wizard 
Duration; Special Saving Throw; Special 

This spell allows a galvanist to electrically over 
load the neurons in the target's brain in such a 
way to erase knowledge of a particular spell. If the 
target makes a successful saving throw, he suffers 
ld4 points of electrical damage and only loses 
knowledge of the single spell specified by the gal 
vanist in the casting. If the target fails the saving 
throw, in addition to the damage and spell loss he 
loses an additional spell for each point by which 
the saving throw failed. These additional lost 
spells are determined randomly by the DM. Note 
that the spells do not need to be in memory at the 
time of the spellbum; they simply need to be spells 
he knows. 

A character who has had spells burned from 
his memory cannot relearn those spells for a pe 
riod of one month per level of the spell. The rele 


vant page(s) in the wizard's spell book will simply 
be incomprehensible to him, and no amount of 
instruction will enable the character to read what 
is written there. Burned spells must be treated as 
newly acquired spells for the purpose of relearn 
ing them. The wizard must make a successful per 
centage roll as though learning it for the first 
time. 

Note that spellbum is closely guarded by the 
College of Invocation on behalf of the Crown. It 
may be only cast legally by a high-level galvanist 
upon the direction of a Jurist of 6th level or higher, 
and is normally only used as a means of punish 
ment or crime prevention. 

Transmigration (Necromancy) 

Range; Touch Casting Time; 1 turn 

Components; V, S Area of Effect; 1 person 
Duration; Permanent Saving Throw; None 

This spell enables a caster to allow a dead per 
son's spirit to find a new home in the material 
world, within another creature that is being bom. 
Unlike reincarnation, the new manifestation does 
not appear in the area of the spell-caster, but 
rather will be born as a Charonti infant some 
where on Jakandor within one week of the spell's 
casting. The transmigrated character recalls none 
of his or her past life, but will have ability scores 
identical to what they were in the previous life. 
Since the person is a newborn, he or she will ob 
viously have no level and no profession (yet). The 
caste into which the child is bom should be de 
termined by rolling percentile dice; 01-10 = 
scholar, 11-40 = guildsman, 41-99 = outcast, and 
00 = royal family. A character using true seeing and 
looking into a transmigrated character's eyes will 
be able to discern who the character was in the 
life immediately prior to the present one. 



NSW SPSUS and KAOIC • 97 




WiiSililil 


HEW PRIEST 

Spells 

First-level Spells 

Know Calling pivination) 

Sphere; Divination 

Range: 10 yds. Casting Time: 1 rd. 

Components: V, S Area of Effect: 1 person 
Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: Neg. 

A know calling spell enables a Jurist to identify the 
vocation in life to which the target would be best 
suited. The Jurist must remain still and concen 
trate on the subject for a full round. If the subject 
makes a successful saving throw, the caster learns 
nothing about that particular person from that 
casting. 


Secohd-level Spells 

Divine Match pivinadon) 

Sphere: Divination 

Range: 10 yards Casting Time: 1 rd. 

Components: V, S, M Area of Effect: 1 person 
Duration: 1 turn Saving Throw: None 

Divine match can make it possible for a priest to 
determine who would be best suited as a mate for 
the subject. If neither the caster nor the subject 
has met the person to whom the subject is best 
suited, the priest will only be able to say that the 
subject has not yet met his or her match. If the 
caster has never met the person to whom the 
subject is best suited but the subject has, the 
caster will be able to say that the subject has in 
deed met his or her match but will not be able to 
identify the person. If both the caster and the sub 
ject have met the person to whom the subject is 
best suited, the priest will be able to provide the 
name of the subject's prospective mate. 

Marrying a divine match will provide a charac 
ter with +10% to experience gained. And children 
of such a match will gain +1 in any one ability 
score. 


98 • CxAPTlR Six 




Special 
Magical items 

The magical items described below are created 
under a special commission of the Crown and are 
awarded, loaned, or sold only to characters who 
demonstrate exceptional merit and dedication to 
the just society. 

RiMG or Spsll nrcAiL 

It is said that the first rings of spell recall were 
forged under Nefti's supervision after the Congre 
gation. This item completely frees a wizard from 
having to memorize spells and allows him to 
choose the spells he will cast as needed through 
out a day. Of course, the number of spells he can 
cast of any level cannot exceed the number that 
would be normally available to him, nor can the 
spells cast be any that the wizard does not know 
and are not presently in his spell book. This ring 
is only given to wizards who have shown great 
dedication to the service of the Crown. 

PENDANT or THE 

JUST Society 

This pendant can only be used by Jurists of the 
Crown. It is magically tuned to an individual char 
acter and presented to the person when he or she 
is commisioned as a jurist. The pendant only 
works if it is worn around the neck. When the 
wearer of the pendant makes the statement, "In 
the name of the queen's justice, I hereby bind you 
to . .." followed by an instruction or command, a 
specified subject within 10 feet of the Jurist will be 
magically geased. A glowing red mark with the 
personal seal of the sentencing Jurist appears on 
the character's forehead and will remain there 
until the assigned task is completed. A character 
may only be subject to the geas of one pendant at 
a time. A higher-level Jurist may use his pendant 
to dispel or replace a geas placed by a lower-level 
jurist. 

Amulet oe pure liokt 

This amulet is a piece of bright sunstone sus 
pended on a chain. It will emanate a sunray spell 
once per day upon the utterance of a command 
word by the wearer. The magic will cleanse the 
Wasting Plague from any creature or object within 
its area of effect, but should be handled with care 
near Charonath, who will suffer damage normally 
as if exposed to a sunray spell. 


HOME Gate 

This device is frequently used to teleport between 
the site of an expedition and the Charonti Civil 
Centers. A temporary home gate consists of three 
bone "javelins." TWo of these have a sharpened 
point at one end and a Y-shaped notch at the 
other. After the pointed ends of these are driven 
into the ground (or otherwise attached to some 
sort of foundation), the third piece is laid in the 
cradle formed by the notches to make a square 
archway. Permanent home gates are made of stone 
carved with arcane sigils. 

When properly supported, assembled, and 
oriented, the device becomes a dimensional door 
to another home gate. The gates are always man 
ufactured in a set of matching pairs. If one gate is 
not properly assembled, the odier will not trans 
port anything passing through it. If both sides are 
active, creatures and objects may move freely 
from one destination to the other. It requires 
twelve uninterrupted hours to properly assemble 
and orient one home gate, due to the complex cal 
culations and minute adjustments that tune the 
device to its destination. A porter, however, can do 
the work in just one hour. 

PERFECT VALISE 

This small chest, 2 feet square and 1 foot deep, is 
teleportively linked to an identical chest. The 
chests, in fact, share a single interior space. Any 
thing placed in one can be immediately seen in 
and withdrawn from the other the moment the 
first chest is closed. Any item that can fit in a 
closed chest can be sent to the companion chest, 
the lid of which must be open to receive the item. 
These chests are often used as dumbwaiters in 
the laboratories of the spell schools. They are also 
are used on long journeys to enable apprentices to 
assist their mentors from a distance. Notes can be 
passed back and forth, or food or spell compo 
nents can be made available. 

Bridge of bones 

This is a device originally invented during the 
wars of the magelords. It takes the form of a small 
pair of bone stakes about 2 feet in length. They are 
activated by planting them in the ground no more 
than 5 feet apart and uttering a command word. 
The device will immediately extend out into a se 
ries of interlocking bones that will form a bridge 
reaching across a chasm as wide as fifty feet. 
When the command word is uttered a second 
time, the bridge will retract to the opposite end 
from which it grew. A bridge of bones can support 
up to 10,000 pounds in weight or 50 points of 
damage (AC 6) before collapsing. 


NIW EpSLLS AMD KAOIC • 99 



APPENDICES 

IMPORIANT CKARONn CHARACtERS 


Illia (CG m galv 12) recently resigned from a 
position on the queen's Council and his role as 
head of the College of Invocation in order to de 
vote time to magical research. His resignation 
raised the suspicions of more political and ambi 
tious Council members, who do not know what to 
make of the move. Illia is notoriously brusque and 
cryptic. He seems uninterested in explaining his 
actions and seems not to care that he has flus 
tered his peers. He resides in Alchatay. 

Esnathon (LN f rend 13) is one of the foremost 
experts in necromantic magic and is credited 
with refining the transmigration spell so that it 
never fails to work (no saving throw). She has 
never held a seat on the queen's council, probably 
due to her staunchly neutral attitude toward good 
and evil. 

Jaban (CG m find 12) is a member of the Coun 
cil and the master of the College of Divination. He 
is a man of boundless energy and is passionate 
about locating and securing the ruins in Knor- 
rman territory before they are lost to the savages. 
He is impulsive and aggressive but extremely 
good-humored. 

Palihn (LN f ward 12) and Umsha (LN m ward 
13) are the two high wardens of the College of Ab 
juration. They serve together on the queen's 
Council and are known for their somewhat dour 
dispositions. They often finish one another's sen 
tences and are virtually inseparable. They are 
most pleased by orderly and prudent plans. They 
consider it a priority to protect the Charonti her 
itage from the Knorr. Palihn's mother was killed 
by the Knorr. 

Ferkah (CG f port 12) is the high porter of the 
College of Alteration and a member of the coun 
cil. She is an extremely enterprising woman, 
known for her work in expanding the number of 
gates available within Amaruk. She believes that 
the wastelands can be left to the Knorr as long as 
the Charonti can travel freely. 

Ekimeser (NG m shad 13) is the high sum- 
moner of the College of Conjuration. He is ex 
tremely canny and has an imposing intellect. His 
eyes have the fiery passion of a zealot, but he 
speaks in soft tones with carefully considered 
words. He is interested in trapping Knorr to study 
in captivity. He believes that some have the power 
to summon animals, and that their primitive be 
liefs may hold keys to powerful conjuring magic. 

Goxianiltibanaleser (NG m sand 10) is a mem 
ber of the Council and the high sandman of the 
College of Illusion. Rather insecure because of the 


fact that his opinion seems to carry little weight 
in the council, nevertheless he behaves rather im 
periously. He is an artist of sublime ability and a 
competent administrator. 

Tayimtep (LG m artif 11) is the high artificer of 
the College of Enchantment and a member of the 
council. He is known for complex and impractical 
solutions to simple problems. His ingenuity is un 
matched on the council, and Nefti is fond of him, 
even if he is a bit hidebound and stodgy when 
hearing other's ideas. 

Asur (LG m phi 14) is an aged philosopher 
who tutored Nefti from childhood. For many years 
he championed a policy of bringing civilization 
and peace to the Knorr, of guiding them as the 
elder Charonti had done in ages past. He has lived 
long enough to see those dreams crushed by the 
unending mindless violence of the Knorr. In his 
old age he has become interested in the little 
things of daily life and seems a bit sad. He is the 
only person who refers to the queen by her 
diminutive nickname from childhood, "Tira." 

Palaxer (NG m phi 12) is an athletic philoso 
pher who spends his time away from the queen's 
Court among the guardians. He believes the 
Charonti must wage a well-planned, large-scale 
war against the Knorr. If they ignore the problem, 
by the time all the ruins are secure the Charonti 
will be hostages in their homes. 

Alira (CG f phi 10) is a sister of Queen Nefti by 
adoption and a member of her Court. Alira is 
pleased that she was not called to take the throne 
and assume all that boring responsibility. She 
warns Nefti against allowing the nation to grow 
too much, and against trying to assimilate the 
Knorr. As the population grows and as fewer 
people share the same values there would be a 
greater need for the Crown to rule through law- 
which she views as highly undesirable. She is in 
favor of any plan to prod the Knorr into leaving 
Jakandor. 

Uhkhanilbanshanefor (LN m guild 9) is the 
wealthiest guildsman. He is based in Orchaleum 
and made his fortune by making and selling plates 
of warming. He is a boorish but crafty man who 
^nds many guild expeditions into the Outlands. 
Most other guildsmen refer to him simply as 
"Uhkhan." 

Ralia (CN f comp 10) is the master of the Guild 
of Quiet Conversation in Nefeneser. Through the 
talents of her subordinates, she is said to be privy 
to the private thoughts of half the members of the 
queen's council. She is quiet and demure. Her 


lOO • Appendices 



submissive manner belies her powerful political 
acumen and savvy. She is said to carry coyness to 
the level of art. 

Tonmose (CG m phil 8) is a hermitlike philoso 
pher who eschews the colleges and the company 
of other scholars in favor of the markets of the 
guildsmen. He is a curious ascetic who uses 
humor to point to what he sees as vanity and 
hypocrisy among his peers. He resides in Amaruk. 

Xerkah (LG m guard 5) is a guardian who is 
often assigned as an escort for Crown expeditions 
into the Outlands. His mentor was killed by a 
Knorr warrior, and he has redoubled his effort to 
eradicate the bloody savages. He has made a point 
of trying to learn about Knorr beliefs in order to 
use ^em to his advantage. 

Nemilian (CN f artif 12) is a guild artificer of 
daunting ability. She is one of the judges of the 
Parade of Civic Virtue each year, and has been 
known to accept apprentices based upon their 
ability displayed in the constructions they enter 
into the parade. Being her apprentice is risky, be 
cause her workshop is a dangerous place for the 
careless. Nemilian resides in Orchaleum. 

Dasur (LN f than 8) is a wise Thanhotepic who 
has become a friend of the queen and a member 
of the Court because of her lively intellect and her 
sometimes contrary opinions. Nefti enjoys the 
rigor of Dasur's thought and enjoys engaging her 
in debate. 

Qadeserkhan (N m pan 7) is a young panthe 
ist residing in Nefeneser who makes his living as 
a carter but spends much of his time at the Clay 
Tablet discussing ancient and primitive religion. 
He has been known to venture into the Outlands 
in search of lost temples and outcasts who may 
have preserved ancient faiths. He does, however, 
support the Crown and has on occasion served as 
a consultant to explorers. 

Palianilkah (NG f scri 10) is the scribe in 
charge of managing the Gateway Plaza of Amaruk. 
She is a tall woman with a rapid manner of speak 
ing. She knows more about who is travehng be 
tween which Civil Centers and which guildsmen 
are conducting business with which than perhaps 
anyone else in the nation. 

Ranethum (LG m scr 11) is the scribe in charge 
of the Hall of Doors. He has an excellent memory 
and knows what colleges are working with others 
on expeditions that pass through the gates there, 
but he is notoriously discreet. His assistant Naja 
(CG m scr 4) is, however, an endless source of ru 
mors regarding the events surrounding various 
expeditions. Naja is very well-meaning, but not 
absolutely reliable. 

Athram (NC m find 8) is a notorious freelance 
wizard of the guildsman class. He left the Ad- 
dakainen in order to enjoy the fruits of his labor 
in the ruins. He hires out as a guide to many 
guildsmen as well as the Crown on occasion. He is 


respected for his ability but is seen by his old col 
leagues at the college as somewhat of a reckless 
and shortsighted individualist without a proper 
sense of duty to the community. 

Nethalna (NE f port 10) is a outcast mage who 
lives in the ruins outside Amaruk. She sees the 
Crown as a tyrannical force trying to monopolize 
magical power. Leading a band of scavengers, she 
has been known to waylay Crown expeditions, 
torturing explorers to get information from them 
or killing them to get her hands on their magical 
items. 

King Vu (LN m band 8) is an outcast bandit 
who has set himself up as something of a petty 
king over a small enclave of outcasts that is com 
posed primarily of brigands and thieves. He is not 
particularly cruel, but considers trespassers in his 
"kingdom" subject to "taxation." He reportedly has 
a good sense of humor and is something of a folk 
hero among the farmers of the Nethton. His lair is 
southeast of that farmland. 

Hothanil (NL f than 8) is the leader of a 
Thanhotepic cult in the ruins outside Orchaleum. 
She is descended from the line of priests who 
fought with the Crown's forces during the settle 
ment of that center. She is passionately devoted 
to both her faith and the small community of out 
casts who depend upon her for leadership. She 
feels the Crown is a flimsy structure founded on 
human arrogance and folly. She has attempted to 
make it hard for the Crown to clear any more ter 
ritory in Orchaleum. She uses a device to animate 
the dead of Crown expeditions she attacks as 
common zombies to use as forces against the 
throne. 

Pildaxer (NE m cult 8) is an outcast cultist in 
the ruins outside Nefeneser who worships a for 
gotten god of a short race of protohumans. He 
shortens the legs of his victims to make them 
more pleasing to his god. 

Haliahramsurpilthan (CG f find 13) is a wizard 
in her fifties who prefers the simple title Halia, 
but is often referred to by her longer title out of 
the awe and respect that many hold for her. She is 
a friend of the queen, who knows that Halia 
would not like the combative discussions of the 
Council and so has not appointed her to that 
group. She chooses instead, as do most of Halia's 
acquaintances, to seek her counsel privately. In 
her youth Halia was trapped in a ruin with a 
Knorr savage for an extended period. She is con 
sidered an expert on the culture of the invaders, 
and her writing on the subject is a standard text 
for intelligent scholars planning expeditions east 
of the River Nanath. 


APPCNDICCS • lOl 



Tsrritomes ahd Major 
|S£AtVRES or Jakahdor 

Following the general information below is an alphabetical gazetteer of the names the Charonti have 
given 
to areas of the island and to major features, including Charonti farmland and the sites of Knorr settle 
ments (but not including the four Civil Centers, each of which is described on a separate handout card). 
Some place names on the poster map are not described here, because they have no significance to the 
Charonti other than as identifiers. 


Charonti Farmland: These huge tracts of irri 
gated farmland in the western river valleys are 
primarily tended by guardians supervising crews 
of Charonath. The Charonti carefully manage the 
soil, working at most only 25% of the territory in a 
given season and rotating the fallow land. A 
handful of Charonti citizens make their homes on 
private farms in these areas. There is actually 
more irrigated land than the current population 
of the cities presently requires, and as such the 
Crown allows citizens to settle there. Some city 
dwellers visit the farmland to enjoy the wide- 
open but safe spaces. 

Charonti Ruins: There are three types of ruins 
marked on the poster map. The symbol for "Pos 
sible Ruin Location" identifies places that have 
been described in ancient texts or marked on an 
cient maps, but have not been actually located or 
explored by servants of the Crown since the re 
construction. Some of these may be completely 
destroyed, some may be inaccessible from the 
surface, others may be plundered by the Knorr or 
in the control of outcast wizards or priests. "Ruin 
Slightly Explored" indicates locations that have 
been sighted or briefly examined since the recon 
struction but are not secured. "Ruin Partially Se 
cured" is used for places that have been farily 
extensively explored, and at least a small area or 
level within the site has been secured. Each se 
cured area has a permanent teleporting gate con 
necting it with tha Hall of Doors in Amaruk, and 
there may be a small staff of Charonti based in 
the secure area to assist in the staging of parties 
preparing for further exploration of the ruins. 

Knorr Settlements and Camps: The Charonti 
have focused primarily on protecting ruins from 
Knorr destruction rather than becoming overly 
concerned with the location and size of Knorr 
settlements. Several large towns have been iden 
tified, many because of their proximity to a ruin 
that has been explored. Knorr camps and towns 
are generally referred to by the name of the near 
est river or body of water. The current total popu 
lation of Knorr is estimated to be about 25,000. 

Adasur (ADD-ah-sir): Reportedly, a center for 
theological research lies deep within a cave com 
plex near the Jagath Falls. It is said to connect via 


tunnels to another cave complex to the north 
known as Uhron. Neither location has been veri 
fied. 

Adatep (ADD-ah-tepp): Perched atop the cliffs 
at the Jagath Falls, Adatep was the site of the 
largest Thanhotepic temple of the elder Charonti. 
It served as a center for priestly devotion and a 
seminary. The complex extends many levels deep 
into the rock. A large area three levels down from 
the surface has been secured. Knorr have been 
known to enter this ruin. 

Adorlia (add-ORE-lia): Ancient records de 
scribe an extremely well-guarded center of 
aquatic and magical research near the mouth of 
the Miruhnez. It was said to be a structure that ac 
tually lay underwater. No efforts have yet been 
undertaken to locate it. 

The Adtep and the Adthan: The ocean waters 
are divided into the water north of Jakandor, 
called the Adthan ("Beginning of the Ocean"), and 
south, called the Adtep ("End of the Ocean"). 

Albantay (ALL-bon-tay): Formerly an elder city 
of moderate size, it was the site of intense fight 
ing during the magelord wars. Only crumbling 
foundations of buildings remain on the surface, 
while complex series of tunnels are said to run 
underneath. 

Anhramtep Encampment: Settled within the 
last fifty years, this camp was believed to be an 
initial launching point for a major organized raid 
on Hramtep, which has never materialized. About 
300 Knorr live here, surviving primarily by fishing 
from flimsy manually powered seacraft. 

Ankahra Plain (on-KAH-ra): These lowlands 
beneath the plateau of the Aton Plain are home to 
the rugged grassland of the Shanethti and Neth- 
ton river valleys. A fair number of outcasts eke out 
a living tilling the soil along the rivers. 

Ashara (uh-SFlAR-a): Listed in ancient records 
as a cultural center for common magic and the 
arts, this site has not been verified. It is rumored 
to be the location of an elder artifact that provides 
remarkably accurate glimpses into the future. 

Atmose (ATT-mose): A former center of magi 
cal research into the control of the elements, At 
mose is noted for a continuing wailing wind that 
rushes upward to the surface from deep within its 
bowels. Several rooms in this ruin have been se- 


lOfi • APPINDICIS 


cured and are being used as a staging area for fur 
ther exploration of the ruins and for the search 
for Bansur. 

Aton Plain (AY-tawn): This enormous plateau 
encompasses most of the land on the island's 
western side. It is primarily dry and dotted with 
barren scrub grass and subject to harsh winds, 
but it is rich and fertile around the shores of Lake 
Hramihn beneath the shelter of the Aten Hills. 

Bansur (BAN-sir): Records describe what was 
in ancient times a marvelous center of craftsmen 
and artificers. No Crown expedition has verified 
the existence of the ruin, but ascertaining its lo 
cation has become a priority since it lies in the 
heart of Knorr territory. 

Daaleser (dahl-AY-zer): A large and ancient 
city that was a major center of elder Charonti cul 
ture once lay at the mouth of the river Nanath. 

Daalramihn Farms: This area is managed by 
about 400 guardians and scribes. The outskirts are 
home to just over 1,600 farming guildsmen. The 
Crown works the land with a force of 11,800 
Charonath, while an additional 1,600 Charonath 
are privately owned and tend to the guildsman 
farms. Most of the private farms are clustered 
near the extreme eastern edge of the territory. 
The site has attracted a small community of out 
casts just across the border to the northeast who 
have made raids on the Crown land but generally 
avoid attacking the guildsmen here. 

Essur (ACE-ur): Once a center of education in 
the ancient Charonti empire, Essur has been par 
tially explored. Its entrance is marked by an enor 
mous series of pillars carved into the cliff wall of 
the Pileser Shelf. Parts of Essur are reportedly oc 
cupied by outcasts organized by a rogue wizard. 

Headcount Camp: A Knorr settlement that is 
unique in that it is usually vacant, but all of the 
Knorr family leaders gather there annually for 
bloody sacrifices to their gods. The size of this 
gathering is used to estimate the overall Knor- 
rman population. 

Lake Hramose (RAH-mose): A beautiful, clear 
sea in a crater high atop the rocky peaks of the 
Thanhogathmose Mountains. 

Ihnhotep Settlement; This squalid warren of 
about 2,500 savages is one of the oldest Knorr 
camps. It seems to be a base from which the 
Knorr have made repeated but haphazard and 
disorganized attempts to raid Hramtep. 

Ihnkahileser (een-KAH-hillayzer): Records de 
scribe an ancient center to which many small 
communities of simple races were brought in 
order to study their primitive religions. Hundreds 
of temples and chapels to various lesser gods 
were said to line the streets of this city. The di 
verse expatriate population combined with the 
intensity of divergent beliefs presented a poten 


tially explosive situation that was kept in control 
by the elder Charonti. The city was also host to a 
menagerie of extraordinary size in which many 
creatures native to the homes of the primitive 
peoples were kept. Although reportedly lying only 
20 miles from Shaleum, its location has not yet 
been verified. The forests of the area are rife with 
dangerous predatory beasts believed to have de 
scended from those once kept in the menagerie. 

Mirqadaal Settlement: Ten years ago an expe 
dition attempting to locate the lost site of Ashara 
sighted this large settlement of several thousand 
Knorr. The party also reported that the barbarians 
had developed simple agricultural methods and 
were clearing the hills for small farms. They had 
not yet discovered irrigation or the notion of pro 
ducing a surplus for trade. 

Naleum (NAY-lee-um): This site, which is 
home to an ancient temple now acting as the cen 
ter of a Thanotepic cult of outcasts, has been ver 
ified but not explored. 

Namir (nah-MEER): This huge canyon in the 
Aton Plain is thought to have once been a body of 
water beneath which was located the magnificent 
elder ruin known as Namiron, said to be the place 
of safekeeping for the old emperor's most danger 
ous and valued magic and technology. After the 
water was removed from the site during the 
magelord wars, the sides of the canyon collapsed 
into the center-burying Namiron (if indeed it 
does exist) under a load of earth so enormous that 
the site has not been successfully excavated. 

Nanath River (NAN-eth): This swampy run 
represents the western edge of Knorr exploration 
on the southern side of the island. No Knorr have 
yet been encountered west of this territory. 

Natep Wall: This is a stretch of beautiful but 
impenetrable cliffs that run a length of over one 
hundred miles along the west coast of Jakandor. 

Nathaton Plain: A vast expanse of badlands 
that lies between the Southern Thanhogathmose 
Mountains and the Atalaxer Range, this was once 
rich and fertile farmland that has become in 
creasingly dry. 

Nathqad (NATH-kadd): An ancient forest high 
amid the Thanhogathmose, marked by rich loamy 
soil and a dark canopy of trees. 

Nefon Camp: Scribes estimate the Knorr pop 
ulation here between 500 and 800. The savages 
here support themselves by crude fishing. 

Nethfereser Woodlands (neth-fer-AYZ-er): 
This extensive forest blankets most of the rolling 
hills and river valleys of the southeast. Some 
scholars have reported surprising deforestation in 
this area that may be related to the settlement of 
the Knorr, who seem to have discovered simple 
agricultural methods in some areas, but the 
scribes of the Dodecon rely upon a mathematical 


APPSMDICSS • lOS 



model that forecasts the depth of the forests. 
They are working with those scribes who esti 
mate Knorrman populations to create a unified 
model that will reflect possible changes in the 
area. The region is lush and covered with dense 
old growth. 

Nethtay (neth-TAY): The legendary home of 
Palian, a great scholar of ancient times who is 
credited with having created the Charonti's most 
challenging riddles, puzzles, and tests. Palian 
served as a tutor to the emperor Ekim. It was 
through stories of his tutelage that the practice of 
testing students through puzzling tests of mind 
and character came into popularity. Much of the 
ruins that lie at the foot of the Aton cliff wall have 
been explored, with the exception of a huge 
fortress called the Palianon filled with scores of 
curious but deadly puzzles. To recover any item 
from the Palianon is recognized as a demonstra 
tion of unsurpassed courage and cunning. 

Nethton Farms: The largest of the irrigated 
territories, this land is tended by a force of 14,000 
Charonath under the command of some 500 
scribes and guardians. Another 500 guildsmen 
make their homes here and are supported by ap 
proximately 1,000 privately owned Charonath. 

Nethton River (NETH-tawn): A shallow, muddy 
river that is fed from Lake Raadihn and empties 
into rocky shoals at its mouth that are unsuitable 
for navigation. 

Oraton (ORE-uh-tawn); According to an anno 
tated map in the Dodecon, this was once the site 
of research into the cultivation of subterranean 
plants as a food source. A tale also arose from a 
fragment of text found on a tablet in Adatep that 
the masters of Oraton were working to develop a 
plant servitor race. 

Outcast Enclaves: The Crown generally ig 
nores outcast enclaves except when they have the 
potential to threaten the interests of the Crown. A 
threat to the Crown may vary from simply occu 
pying an area that must be cleared for settlement 
by citizens, to plundering ancient ruins, to raiding 
Crown farms, attacking parties of scholars, or in 
citing dangerous antiCrown fervor among the 
outcasts. The enclaves marked on the map have 
been observed by guildsmen or scholars. They are 
likely to be referred to very casually, as in "those 
outcasts up on the Aton Plain" or "those outlaws 
on the Nethton." 

Qadtay (kad-TAY); Lying at the heart of the 
Nathaton Plain, Qadtay rose to become the pre 
mier trade center of the elder Charonti world. The 
city enjoyed rich agricultural land that was fed by 
gentle runoff from the Thanhogathmose Moun 
tains. Today the terrain is a forbidding dry bad 
lands. No Crown expedition has verified the 
location of Qadtay, but outcast legends report that 


it was home to a powerful undead lord during the 
magelord wars. 

Rachail (RAH-kah-eel): This was the fortress of 
a magelord built within a complex of caves that 
recedes into the cliffs of the plateau above. It has 
been partially secured but still serves as home to 
the followers of an outcast mage. Negotiations 
have been attempted to invite the mage and her 
followers to become servants of the Crown. So far 
they have resisted, but since they are not interfer 
ing with the affairs of the Crown they have been 
allowed to remain where they are. 

Ranez (ruh-NEZ): This small run marks the 
westernmost border of Knorr settlement on the 
northern half of the island. No Knorr invaders 
have been encountered west of the Ranez. 

Shaleum (SHAY-lee-um): High amid the an 
cient Nathqad Forest, Shaleum was once an ad 
ministrative center for the ancient empire. Its 
deep ruins have yielded many clues to the loca 
tions of other ancient ruins as well as more de 
tailed information on those whose locations have 
already been verified. One complete level is se 
cured here and used by scribes to supervise the 
recovery of the ancient records in other areas. 

Shanethti Farms: This district is home to 
about 450 scribes and guardians and another 
1,000 guildsman farmers. There are about 15,000 
Charonath here, of which 2,000 are owned by the 
guildsmen and the rest by the Crown. An outcast 
village lies just south of this territory. In spite of 
admonishment by the district Jurists, the farmers 
have been known to trade with these outcasts. 

Shanethti River (shuh-NETH-tee): This calm 
and gently flowing river waters the grasslands 
and irrigated farmland of the Ankahra Plain. It is 
frequently used for travel by outcasts. The mouth 
of ^is river dissipates into bogs and forests of 
reeds, making navigation through the area almost 
impossible. 

Tayhramtep (TAY-rom-tepp): This is the for 
mer fortress of one of the great magelords and a 
city from which many voyages of exploration left 
Jakandor in ancient times. The surface level of the 
ruins here is well secured, but it is not yet known 
how deep they penetrate or what is hidden within 
their depths. Much of the surface terrain here has 
been permanently enchanted to cause it to glow 
continually. This illumination may have been 
used as a beacon at one time, and is believed to 
have drawn the attention of the first Knorr who 
sailed to Jakandor. Scribes based here use the site 
to estimate Knorr population growth by tracking 
the attendance to their annual sacrifices at the 
Headcount Camp. 

Tephodaal Camp: A party surve 3 nng the 
region near Xeres located what was initially be 
lieved to be a large temporary Knorr encampment 


104 • APPENDICES 




that has grown into a permanent lakeside settle 
ment of crude sod brick and thatch structures 
with a population estimated at more than 3,000. 

Thanhileum (than-ILL-ee-um): Ancient records 
refer to what may have been a retreat for ancient 
Thanhotepic priests before the time of the plague. 
The remote location and treacherous surround 
ings have dissuaded Crown expeditions from ver 
ifying the location of this ruin. Although it may be 
a site of great power, it is unlikely that any Knorr 
will venture far enough into the swamps of the 
northern coast to stumble upon it. 

Thanhogathmose Mountains (thanna-GATH- 
muss); This rugged terrain forms a huge S-shape 
along the length of Jakandor. From the highest 
peaks along the western coast, the range contin 
ues along Sie north side of the island, blocking 
rainclouds from reaching the dry plains of the 
south. In central Jakandor the mountains are di 
vided by the Uton River and the Nathqad Forest. 
The range gradually turns north again and dissi 
pates into foothills in the woodlands. 

Uhron (00-ron): There was reportedly an 
enormous center of magical and technological re 
search that lay deep within a cave among the 
mountains of the Hogathmose Range. Records re 
port subterranean passages that led all the way to 
a major clerical center called Adasur. To date 
Uhron's location has not been verified. 


Uhwahmir Settlement: The largest of the 
Knorr settlements, with a population of approxi 
mately 4,000. This site was first postulated by 
scribes at Alchatay who observed that the mouths 
of all the eastern rivers had been settled by the 
Knorr. Later it was confirmed by scholars who 
traveled to investigate the Headcount Camp while 
it was unoccupied. 

Uton River (00-tawn): The Uton River falls 
from the heights of the Thanhogathmose Moun 
tains and winds through the lowlands to water 
the rich forests of eastern Jakandor. 

Uton Settlement: A large cluster of over 500 
mud and stick huts was documented here by a 
party of Crown scholars based out of Xeres. The 
Knorr population may be as high as 2,500. 

Xeres (ZAIR-ees): In an effort to understand 
the bloodtiiirstiness of the simple races, the el 
ders brought many warriors of primitive peoples 
to live on Jakandor. Much of the theory of troop 
command upon which the modem Charonti rely 
was developed in Xeres. Most of this min lies be 
neath the ground, and only a small cave in the 
forest allows access to it from the surface. A small 
area of this min has been secured. It is notable for 
its large number of unusual and aggressive free- 
willed undead. It is used as a base for further ex 
ploration of the min itself as well as a starting 
point for expeditions searching for Oraton. 


APPSMDICCS • 105 




Tk£ Charohti Nation 


who Rules the Nation: 

Queen Nefti (NG f phi 16) was adopted into the royal 
house as a child. She assumed the throne at the age 
of 16 and is now 35 years old. She is well loved by 
her subjects and rules with profound wisdom, com 
passion, and gentle humor. Nefti depends upon her 
council, which is made up primarily of high wizards 
from the colleges of the Addakainen, to prioritize 
expeditions and projects of the reconstruction. She 
looks to the Court of philosophers, with whom she 
spends most of her time, to discern how best to rule 
with justice. Shasur (LN f serf 13) is the Vizier of the 
Charonti nation. She supervises the government 
bureaucracy and is feared for her cunning and dis 
cretion. Xeraban (LG m guard 10), a tired but kind 
man, is the nation's High Guardian. 

The Outland Gates: 

Each of the Civil Centers with the exception of Ne- 
feneser has a single huge physical gate that leads 
to the unsettled quarters of the ruins that sur 
round the city. The Outland gates are attended by 
a jurist, a scribe, a guardian, and at least two Char- 
onath to monitor the flow of traffic. Generally, any 
one who wants to leave may do so, but few 
Charonti go into the ruins except as members of a 


large group. Most parties leaving from these points 
are expeditions of the Crown, although bands of 
guildsmen do occasionally venture out. 

The Gateway Plazas: 

Each Civil Center has a plaza where large teleport 
ing gates are maintained and supervised by scribes 
for instantaneous transportation between the Civil 
Centers. The ease of moving from one place to an 
other creates the feeling among the Charonti that 
they live in a single large city. 

Where to Get Healed: 

Charonti scholars are normally healed by philoso 
phers at the expense of the Crown. If the injured 
parties were involved in a project sponsored by a 
college but not officially sanctioned by the Crown, 
the sponsoring institution will make donations to 
the College of Thought to have characters healed. 
Guildsmen must find medical attention at their 
own expense, as must scholars involved in sur 
reptitious affairs. The means by which these char 
acters may find healing are listed in the "Where to 
Get Healed" entry on each Civil Center's informa 
tion card. Note Aat there are no temples in the 
Charonti Civil Centers. 



^rmUnd 


Ruins extend 
5 miles in all 
directions 


Gathering- 

lirieid^ 


lialPoLPSlpenlal 


Salac& 


iNecromanW 


Ruins 


Teleporting 

a Gate a 


Dodecon 


Co U^g Tof 

In\^auon 


Outland 
Gat^. 


jParadeJI 
lG rounds) 


arliouglitT 


Ruins 


Gatewa y Plaza Spring 






106 • APPINDICIS 
































ALCKATAY 

(all-kak-TAY) Tk£ Capital 


Population: 10,000 Charonti (2,000 scholars, 8,000 
guildsmen) and 10,000 Charonath (4,000 property 
of the Crown, 6,000 owned by citizens). Total: 
20 , 000 . 

Who Rules the City: Ahmonra (LN m scri 10), 
a short and furiously active man, is the city gov 
ernor and reports directly to the Vizier. Onkah (NG 
m jur 12), a humorless but wise man, is the high 
Jurist of Alchatay and reports directly to the 
queen along with the three high Jurists of the 
other Civil Centers. Each of the city blocks and 
governmental departments fall under the juris 
diction of subordinate Jurists. 

Major Products: Alchatay is known primarily 
as an administrative center, although the plazas 
are host to frequent colorful markets where many 
families of guildsmen ply their wares. A fair num 
ber of craftsmen and guilds make the capital city 
their base of operations, including a large leather- 
workers guild and the weaponsmiths guild that 
are often contracted by the Crown to outfit the 
Charonath. 

Gates: Alchatay's Gateway Plaza has a single 
large gate to each of the three other Civil Centers. 
Alchatay is the only city with a gate to Nefeneser. 

Armed Forces: Anaxeres (LG m guard 9), a pas 
sionate, vocal and devoted warrior, is the High 
Guardian of the city and commands a hierarchy of 
officers and undead beneath him of over 4,000. 
Only 1,000 of these are now actively dedicated to 
military service; the rest are in the charge of the 
colleges and the Dodecon. 

Schools: The College of Thought (including the 
Open School and the Children's School), the Col 
lege of Necromancy (located in the Hall of Perpet 
ual Life), and the College of Invocation are all 
located in Alchatay in a large sprawling area 
around the Open Plaza near the palace. 

History: Alchatay was the capital of the old 
empire, and was the place where Anmen origi 
nally harnessed the Charonath to establish a safe 
enclave within the ruins and preserve the line of 
the House of Hramnethes. From this enclave de 
veloped the philosophic ideal of Charonti justice 
that has become the foundation of present 
Charonti society and the reconstruction. The royal 
bloodline survived in spite of a number of efforts 
during the wars of the magelords to destroy the 
enclave or assassinate its leaders. During that 
time the city was essentially a fortress, offering 
refuge to those who sought it. The enclave sur 
vived by breaking up a large plaza and planting a 
garden within the safety of the walls. In time tele 


portation was used to allow fishing to be under 
taken without the danger of traveling back and 
forth through the ruins. Alchatay was the site of 
the great Congregation that served to end the 
magelord wars and allow the Charonti people to 
become united again. 

Important Features: The Palace is a large com 
plex of spacious stone buildings that house the 
Court, the Council chambers, and the administra 
tive offices of the Vizier. The royal family resides 
here, in accommodations that are extremely aus 
tere-more modestly appointed than even the 
cells of the scholars in the dormitories. The Open 
Plaza, a large area tiled with marble in front of the 
palace, is the site of public festivals and official 
events. The Gathering Field, on the opposite side 
of the palace, is a communal garden where any 
residents of the city may devote their Charonath 
to tending a small plot of ground. This practice 
stems from the earliest days of the enclave. Some 
guildsmen actually enjoy tending the plots them 
selves. The Dodecon is ^e jewel in the Crown of 
the reconstruction. It is a huge public library 
where tablets and scrolls are stored for use by the 
public. Many documents are withheld from public 
view, and reserved for use only by the Crown and 
particular scholars of the Addakainen. The Hall of 
Perpetual Life is an enormous structure that was 
at one time a Thanhotepic temple. The religious 
ornamentation has long been removed, and the 
site is now used as the center where rending is 
performed upon Charonti dead. Fees are assessed 
to individuals in order to retain the Charonath 
created in the process. Those who cannot afford 
or do not want Charonath may simply donate the 
remains to the Crown. The Parade Ground is a 
walled-in field accessible only through a teleport 
ing gate near the dormitories of the guardians. 
Unlike most of the large gates, this one is only 
open while operated by an attendant. It is from 
this vantage point that military expeditions are 
mustered and gated out of the Civil Center. It is 
also to this point that they often return. 

Where to Get Healed: The Open School hosts 
lectures on the philosophy of justice for the pub 
lic in the Open Plaza, after which healing is per 
formed for listeners who spent the entire day 
there. Donations are accepted on behalf of the Ad 
dakainen. 


APPf NDICf S • 107 



AKARUK 

Cakk-ah-rook| 


Population: 12,000 Charonti (1,300 scholars, 10,700 
guildsmen), 30,000 Charonath (9,000 property of 
the Crown, 21,000 owned by citizens). Total: 
42,000. 

Who Rules the City: Banahm (NG f scri 12), a 
congenial heavyset woman with a reputation 
among the guildsmen as a hard bargainer, is the 
civil governor responsible for supervising the 
scribes of the city. High Jurist of the city is Jagath- 
ian (NG m jur 12), an aging man with a fierce in 
tellect who has a reputation for assigning clever 
tasks to those who run afoul of the public welfare. 

Major Products: Amaruk is the trade and 
transportation center of the Charonti nation and 
is known for its large markets that draw mer 
chants from the other Civil Centers. It is the home 
of the nation's largest merchant guilds, while the 
craft guilds are more often based in Orchaleum. 
All of the major transportation guilds, including 
the carters and barge builders, are in Amaruk. The 
city is often thought of as an agricultural center 
even though nothing is actually grown here, but 
because it is the only Civil Center with a gate to 
each of the Crown farming districts. 

Gates: Amaruk is unique for the sheer size of 
its Gateway Plaza as well as the number of tele 
porting gates within the city. Amaruk has gates to 
Alchatay and Orchaleum as well as each of the 
Crown farming regions. Additionally, the College 
of Alteration operates a facility known as the Hall 
of Doors. This is a building that is often used as 
the location for one end of a home gate, serving as 
a returning point for many Crown expeditions 
that carry the other end of a home gate with them 
on a journey. Because of the large number of gates 
in this building and the potentially dangerous lo 
cations they are connected to, the large hall in 
which they are erected is heavily patrolled by 
armed guardians and Charonath. Crown scribes 
regulate travel through the entrances to this 
building. Some college-sponsored expeditions de 
cline to use this site because of political rivalries 
between them and the porters. 

Armed Forces: Amaruk has a standing force of 
8,000 Charonath under the command of 400 
guardians, led by the pompous but competent 
Xerabradaalonsur (LG m guar 10). The remaining 
Crown Charonath are allocated to the colleges. 

Schools: The colleges of Alteration and Div 
ination are located in Amaruk. The College of Div 
ination sponsors the performance of regular 
public divinations in a small amphitheater adja 
cent to the college. The event usually includes 


prognostications of the future as well as answer 
ing questions from audience members. The 
school touts the gesture as a charitable and civic 
function, but cynics claim these affairs are used 
to cull information from naive guildsmen and 
traders that may benefit the diviners. The perfor 
mances have also been criticized for being used to 
manipulate public opinion. 

History; Amaruk lies at the mouth of the 
Shanethti. In the age of the elder empire, the city 
was a major port from which many voyages were 
launched. Today the ruined piers along the shore 
line are only a reminder of the reach of the elder 
Charonti world. During the final years of the 
magelord wars, the ruins of Amaruk served as a 
fortress for the magelords Rashatep and Qadasur, 
who initially fought over the territory and then al 
lied in order to advance their mutual interests. 
Rashatep was a master porter and Qadasur a 
finder of unmatched ability. It was their plan to 
combine their skills to plumb the depths of the 
ruined city in search of magical power. At the time 
of the Congregation, they were among the last to 
swear allegiance to Nefti, but when they did so 
were appointed as the founders of the colleges of 
Alteration and Divination. The schools remain 
based in Amaruk to this day. 

Important Features; The Gateway Plaza is the 
largest feature of Amaruk and is normally 
crowded with levitating barges heaped with grain 
and other items for trade. Many guilds have es 
tablished private gates to some of their sites of ac 
tivity beyond the safety of the Civil Center. The 
Nalia Market is an area full of stalls and mer 
chant's tents that remains open all night long. 
After dark the market tends to focus on enter 
tainment and recreation a bit more than selling 
practical wares, but the goods are still available. 
The Fellowship of Good Company is the largest of 
the companions guilds, known for its influence 
among the houses of the wealthiest and most 
powerful guildsmen. The Waterway is a pool 
framed by teleporting gates to the Shanethti 
River. It is used as a port for Charonti guildsmen 
who are investing in Charonath-manned fishing 
ventures. The city governor is concerned about 
the potential security risk that the Waterway may 
present to the city. 

Where to Get Healed: The Curatory is the 
guild of the chirurgeons. It is a large, featureless 
structure where the injured are treated in ex 
change for donations to the guild. 


108 • Appehdices 




.wimiuK-'j 

jmmiummw 


fMIIHIliHlIHll' 


^^4unnau^ 


: mi"ri> 9 
;uiiiiiiiiuiii>s 


llMKTlf 

iiiiitlHlIliiv 


[uiiinu^< 

I iimiiiiiiniBC 


¦llluillllHIHII 'I 


ik.'j=l! 




i'litiiiiiiHll'.i: 


:::uniiunnig 

ts cSimiii; a 


•imiiH'.' 


¦vn*: 

r 


{I^e Nalia 


Gateway Plaza 


(c)ivination 

m 


¦2 '¦¦ 


^SnSSn^ 

S^* 





[jj3. 




1^ 

lUi*^ 

(Intj 


Appendices • 109 


































CNEE-EN-ESS-£r) 


Population: 4,000 Charonti (600 scholars, 3,400 
guildsmen), 6,000 Charonath (3,000 property of 
tiie Crown, 3,000 owned by citizens). Total:10,000. 

Who Rules the City: Jaorahm (LG f scri 11) is 
the civil governor responsible for supervising the 
scribes of the city. She reports to the Vizier. Kah- 
mose (LG f jur 13) is the high Jurist of the city and 
was once a teacher to Nefti in her childhood. Kah- 
mose has become increasingly rules-minded (law 
ful), and Nefti is hoping she will retire soon 
voluntarily rather than require the queen to re 
quest her resignation. For now, Kahmose's stodgi 
ness serves the Crown well, because she keeps a 
firm eye on the College of Conjuration. 

Major Products: Nefeneser is primarily known 
as the center of Crown-sponsored magical re 
search for the colleges of Conjuration and Abjura 
tion. There are no major trade or craft guilds here, 
with the exception of the College of Abjuration. 
While not a formally a guild, it does conduct busi 
ness among both scholars and guildsmen by hir 
ing out its members' services. There are 
guildsmen here who run businesses and support 
services for the colleges. 

Gates: Nefeneser is unique among the Civil 
Centers in that it has only a single teleporting 
gate. The gate leads to Alchatay, meaning that vis 
itors who seek to travel to Nefeneser must pass 
through the capital city first. The city is also note 
worthy for being the only Civil Center without an 
Outland Gate; it is entirely walled in. Both of these 
precautions reflect the concerns of the Crown re 
garding the research of the College of Conjura 
tion. The seclusion of Nefenser has attracted 
some guildsmen who find life in the other Civil 
Centers a bit too boisterous. 

Armed Forces: Nefeneser has a standing force 
of 2,000 Charonath under the command of 100 
guardians led by Ihnhaxer (LG f guard 9), who is 
well loved by the guildsmen of Nefeneser for her 
forthrightness and kindness. She is, however, 
rather formal with scholars, for whom she has a 
general antipathy. The remaining Crown Charo 
nath are allocated to the colleges. 

Schools: The colleges of Conjuration and Ab 
juration are located in Nefeneser. The College of 
Abjuration was moved to Nefenser to help deacti 
vate some of the dangerous lingering enchant 
ments within the ancient temples that were 
found here. The wardens are also available to pro 
vide emergency assistance to the College of Con 
juration, which was relocated here by tiie Crown 
to make it possible for the shadow mages to con 


duct their research in a relatively isolated place. 

History: Nefeneser is the youngest of the 
Charonti Civil Centers. The settlement was 
founded as the first expedition of the reconstruc 
tion into the ruins of a former city of the elder 
empire that had not served as a fortress during 
the magelord wars. During the days of the ancient 
Charonti, the city was home to a variety of peo 
ples who had been brought to Jakandor for their 
education and the study of the Charonti schools. 
It was seen as a potentially dangerous site by the 
Crown because of the large number of ancient 
temples to primitive gods of the simple races that 
were constructed there. Such sites can be centers 
of dangerous magic and may incite outcasts to at 
tempt to rehabilitate forgotten cults. The Crown 
secured what was formerly the city's temple dis 
trict and converted the buildings for use by the 
Addakainen. 

Important Features: The Clay Tablet is a plaza 
that has become known as a gathering place for 
cultists, pantheists, Thanhotepics, and indepen- 
dent-minded philosophers. Most of the Charonti 
who meet here are guildsmen who enjoy debating 
metaphysical ideas in the evening hours after 
their daily work is done. The Guild of Quiet Con 
versation is a small guild of companions who are 
known for their influence among the scholars and 
scribes of the Crown. They are an extremely dis 
creet and cohesive group. 

Where to Get Healed: There are no formal 
healing facilities in Nefenser; however, many 
guildsmen who dabble in priest magic can attend 
to injuries in an emergency. 


no • appsndicss 



m 

T^ble 

s 

Boxes 

o 

Barrel 

1 

WaU 

n 

Brazier 


Cistern 

DD 

Bed 

'1 

Railing ^ 

O 

Column 

1 

Curtain 

llii'- 

Stairs 

• 

Stool 








































OnCKALEUK 

Cor-KAY-le£-vk| 


Population: 12,000 Charonti (1,000 scholars, 11,000 
guildsmen), 32,000 Charonath (10,000 property of 
the Crown, 22,000 owned by citizens). Total: 
44,000. 

Who Rules the City: Ahminkaheser (LG m scr 
12) is the civil governor responsible for supervis 
ing the scribes of the city. The guildsmen gener 
ally find him to be insufferably rules-minded and 
arrogant. He seems to treat scholars with efficient 
professionalism. Ti (NG f jur 12) is the high Jurist 
of the city. She is known as a thoughtful and 
deeply compassionate woman. Few of her deci 
sions are ever appealed by any party involved. The 
subordinate Jurists of Orchaleum are very devoted 
toTi. 

Major Products: Orchaleum is the manufac 
turing center of the Charonti nation and is known 
for its extensive workshops and craft guilds. All of 
the largest guilds of artificers, specializing in 
minor magic items and various forms of ambula 
tory equipment, are found here. Orchaleum is also 
home to the builders guild, a group that con 
tracted by the Crown to renovate adjacent sec 
tions of the unsettled quarters before they are 
added to a Civil Center. 

Gates: Orchaleum has gates to both Alchatay 
and Amaruk. Additionally, a single large building 
serves as the gateway to several mines worked by 
Charonath for the interest of the Crown. 

Armed Forces: Orchaleum has a standing 
force of 7,000 Charonath under the command of 
250 guardians led by Albanaxer (LG m guard 9), a 
quiet man known for his dedication to systemat 
ically clearing unsettled quarters adjacent to Or 
chaleum to allow for expansion of the Civil 
Center. The remaining Crown Charonath are allo 
cated to the colleges. 

Schools: The colleges of Enchantment and Il 
lusion are located in Orchaleum. The College of 
Illusion conducts regular educational perfor 
mances for the public. The College of Enchant 
ment probably loses more members to the 
guildsman caste than any other institution dedi 
cated to the training of scholars. For this reason, 
however, it also has the best relations with the 
guildsman caste and will occasionally help ad 
vance some unusual research undertaken by a 
guild that manufactures enchanted items or 
some sort of artifice. 

History: Orchaleum was the first Civil Center 
that was reclaimed by the Crown after the Con 
gregation. It began as a small compound that 
served as the fortress of Shall, a powerful en 


chanter who quickly took up Nefti's cause and 
proposed the idea of clearing and securing city 
blocks within the ruined cities and then linking 
them with teleportive gates. The project was not 
completed until well after Amaruk had been 
made safe, because of an entrenched population 
of outcasts here who followed a Thanhotepic 
cultist. Although they were eventually driven 
from the area, their descendants continue to 
dwell within the unsettled quarters. After the war 
for the settlement of Orchaleum, an apprentice of 
Shall moved the College of Enchantment (which 
had been founded in Alchatay) to Orchaleum in 
honor of his mentor. The presence of the school 
attracted many guildsmen and resulted in a great 
amount of manufacturing of enchanted items. As 
the guild population grew, the citizens of Or 
chaleum built the Great Theater in order to induce 
the College of Illusion to relocate here, which did 
in fact occur. 

Important Features: The open area adjacent to 
the College of Enchantment is the site of an an 
nual event known as the Parade of Civic Virtue. 
This affair began as an exposition that demon 
strated the latest ambulatory devices and 
machines that had been created or recovered 
from the ruins, but in recent years attention has 
become increasingly focused on the short parade 
afterward. The guilds compete fiercely to present 
the most unusual or entertaining ambulatory de 
vice. People from all the Civil Centers gather for 
this hilarious event that tests the creativity and 
imagination of the competitors. The Bureau of 
Mines is a building that contains teleporting gates 
to the Crown mines. The mines are tended almost 
entirely by Charonath, with a few scribes and 
guardians present to assist in organizing them 
and giving orders. The mines are the primary 
source of gems used for magic among the 
Charonti. The Great Theater is a large open-air 
arena where performances of traditional legends 
and recent events of import to the Charonti 
people are performed by members of the College 
of Illusion. It is also on occasion the site of public 
performances by musicians and poets. 

Where to Get Healed: The chirurgeons guild 
maintains a presence in Orchaleum because of 
the fair number of injuries caused by accidents 
involving the manufacturing guilds. The place is a 
small workshop where the injured are treated in 
exchange for donations to the guild. 


lift • appsmdices 






ii^Suiuk"! 

'iiiiiiiimmHi' 






£ ;Limiii'L-;al 


riumiiiiii)' 


Ruins extend 5 miles 
in all directions 


.Enchantment 


Gateway Plaza 


Spring 

























O d y s s e y(tm) 



by Kirk Botula, Dale Donovan, and Kim Mohan 

Centuries ago, a magical plague swept across the island of 
Jakandor and struck down the majestic Charonti 
civilization. A Golden Age of learning, art, and magic 
was lost in a period of days as the magically based 
culture that the wise and gentle Charonti people 
had developed collapsed around them. 

The few Charonti who survived learned to adapt to 
the new world; the wizards mastered necromantic 
arts that allowed the fallen victims of the plague to 
continue to serve the new Charonti culture as a man 
ual labor force. After a period of vicious civil war, the 
nation has now united under a fair and benevolent 
queen. The Charonti people seek to regain their lost 
magic and their lost empire-but as they explore the island 
seeking ancient cities that have been 

swallowed by the wilderness, they find that their ancestral home has been invaded. 

In this, the second of the three-part Jakandor series of products, the history, culture, 
politics, religion, cities, attitudes, and magic of the Charonti people-a nation of 
wizards-is fully detailed for the first time. Included in this package is all the 
information needed to run Charonti PCs in a full-fledged Jakandor campaign, includ 
ing a color map of Jakandor. The Charonti's unique magic system is also detailed with 
new kits and new spells for Charonti PC wizards. 


U.S.. CANADA EUROPEAN HEAEXJUARTERS 

ASIA, PACIFIC, & LATIN AMERICA Wizards of the Coast, Bcisium 

Wizards of the Coast, Inc. j| Jr P-B. 34 

P.O. Box 707 r r I 2300 Tumhout 
Renton, WA 98057-0707 \ cj f' ^ Belgium 

+ 1-206-624-0933 ' " +32-14-44-30-44 


Visit our website at www.tsr.com 

Advanceij Dungeons & Dragons and the TSR logo are registered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 
Oi>^sst\ is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. (c)1998 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. Made in the U.S.A. 
TSR, Inc. is a subsidiary of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 















Dun geonsScDrago ns^ 

O d y s s c 

JAKANDOR: 
ISLE Of DESTINY 

DK'S LOREBOOK 


Table oe Contents 


Introduction: Isle of Destiny... 

Managing Magic. 

Undead Resources. 

Summary of Elder Spells .... 

Colleges of Wizardry. 

TYaining and Advancement 
The Spirit of the Charonti.. 
Calendar and Climate. 


The Wasting Plague. 

Chapter One: The Knorr.8 

Clans and Cults.9 

Character Kits.10 

Guardian Juggernauts.15 


2 Knorr Magic. 

2 Adventure Seeds. 

3 Random Encounter Tables.... 

4 Chapter TWo: Graduation Exercise 

DM Notes. 

Adventure Setup. 

Cast of Characters. 

Sorcerous Apprentices. 

Graduation Day. 

Graduation Exercise. 

Adventure Map. 

The Ruins. 

Creature Statistics. 


Credits 

Design: Kirk Botula Adventure Design: Harold Johnson 
Editing: Kim Mohan & Harold Johnson Creative Direction: Harold Johnson 
Cover Art: Terese Nielsen Interior Art: Rick Hicker 
Cartography: Rob Lazaretti & Diesel Graphic Design: Matt Adelsperger & Dee Barnett 
Art Direction: Dawn Murin Typesetting: Angelika Lokotz 


U.S., CANADA, 
ASIA. PACIFIC, & LATIN AMERICA 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 

P.O. Box 707 
Renton, WA 98057-0707 
+1-206-624-0933 



EUROPEAN HEADQUARTERS 
Wizards of the Coast, Belgium 
P.B. 34 

2300 Tlimhout 

Belgium 

+32-14-44-30-44 


Visit our website at www.tsr.com 


15 

17 

19 

20 
20 
21 
22 

23 

24 

25 

26 
28 
31 


Advanced dungeons & Dragons, AD&D, dungeon Master, and the TSR logo are registered trademarks 
owned by TSR, Inc. 

ODYSSEY and MONSTROUS Manual are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. All TSR characters and the 
distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks 
owned by TSR. Inc. The characters and events described in this book are fictional. 

Any resemblance between the characters and any person, living or dead, is purely coincidental. 

(c)1998 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. Made in the U.S.A. TSR, Inc. is a subsidiary of Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc. 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc. and in Canada by Random 
House of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to the 
hobby, toy, and comics trade in the United States and Canada by regional distributors. Distributed 
worldwide by Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 

and regional distributors. 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the 
material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written consent of TSR, Inc. 


ISBN 0-7869-1245-6 


9512XXX1502 




























Introduction: 



book also provides an introductory 
adventure. This book is/or the DM only. 

I/you are a player, please do not read^rther. 

The Charonti are an ancient people. 

Their ancestors were once masters of all /' Wm 
magic. That civihzation was destroyed cen- 
turies ago by a horrible plague. Now, they are the ^ 
last of the world's oldest ci^ization-a culture de 
pendant on the use of magical artifacts and the ser 
vice of undead servitors to perform manual labor. 
These survivors have begun the tasks of recovering 
the lost magics, rebuilding their ancient cities, and 
restoring their fallen society to its former glory. 

The Charonti live in limited sections in the ruins 
of four major cities. They are ruled by a monarchy-a 
queen and her council of five groups: the court, the 
council, the vizier, the jurists, and the high guardian. 

An ordered society, the Charonti follow a system of 
specialization. This system assigns each citizen to a so 
cial caste where his skills and aptitude are best suited 
to serve society. Thus, the wisest members rule for the 
benefit of all, freeing those with more appropriate skills 
to pursue the study of magic and rebuilding the nation. 

Magic is central to Charonti society. The Colleges 
of Wizardry, or the Addakainen, form the core of the so 
cial system. Though once quite powerful with the ar 
cane arts, the Charonti must now recover the old lore 
from the ruins of the past. They seek to rebuild the 
Great Library of the Dodecon, repository of arcane lore. 

Still, the most startling aspect of Charonti society is 
the use of the Charonath-the reanimated remains of 
their ancestors, to serve as undead servants for society! 
There is no greater honor for Charonti then to continue 
to serve even after they have passed beyond the veil. 


magic as a common I | uML kiMlIM 

tool used in every K a X 

day life, not as > a llj 

something filled I'fti I Lin i I I x lly wMail 

with superstitious ' ' tW 5 * Iff vtlllUliH 

awe. Even Charonti ' ^ _ 1| 

who are not spellcasters ' f ifr flfHI 

know the names of spells. ! || > " 

However, as widespread as magic is in 
this society, it also has its limits. Most spells greater 
than 3rd level have been lost and forgotten. 

This aspect of the setting makes the game excit 
ing in several ways. First, it provides a goal for heroes, 
a way they can contribute to the reconstruction of 
their lost civilization by finding forgotten spells. Sec 
ond, it provides a wonderful device for creating ad 
ventures. What happens if the heroes hear of a friend 
who found a lost spell and decided not to turn it over 
to the Crown? What if an enemy comes into posses 
sion of powerful lost magic? Making magic limited in 
a magic-based society creates a foundation for unlim 
ited conflicts and adventures. Thirdly, it creates an in- 


kamagino Magic 


centive for heroes to conduct spell research. Many 
campaigns miss the adventure possibilities of spell re- 


Magic plays a unique role in a Charonti campaign. In 
this land, magic is widespread and common. Many 
magical items are made and sold on the street. While 
spell casters are held in high esteem, Charonti view 


search. Spell research provides the opportunity to 
send heroes in quest of esoteric spell components. 

Finally, the limitations of magic in the Charonti cul 
ture make it easy to avoid the problem of heroes becom- 


8 • iNTRODVCnON 



rather than if they return with a chain lightning spell. 

Rewarding Charonti characters should take a differ 
ent form than it does in other campaigns. Scholars can 
not amass personal wealth, so treasure is useless. They 
can be given more responsibility, or assigned to more in 
teresting projects, as well as given access to new magic. 
Guildsmen, on the other hand, are likely to desire trea 
sure but must give most of their finds to their lineage. 
This is not usu^ly a hardship, since most guildsmen live 
with their families and any treasure they acquire just 
serves to raise the standard of living for their household. 


ing 
too 
powerful. 
These limits 
create control 
over how powerful 
the heroes are and how 
powerful they can become. 
The magical resources of heroes 
may be increased with unique or 
powerful spells hidden in the ruins, or 
powerful magic can be selectively intro 
duced through a mentor. The colleges and the 
Crown also may possess knowledge of pow- 

Magic resources of a party can be reduced by having 
spells or magical items found by the heroes claimed by 
the Crown. An easy way to give heroes access to other 
powerful devices without unbalancing the campaign is to 
allow them to discover a rare or unique item in the ruins 
that they may use during their current adventure but 
must then relinquish to the Crown upon their return. 


Eider Epeil list 

Here is a complete list of Elder spells (spells 
that can be learned by members of every Col 
lege). Those listed in "italics" are lost at the start 
of the campaign. 

1st level; cantrip, charm person, compre 
hend languages, detect magic, hold portal, light, 
magic missile, Nefti's spell recall, phantasmal 
force, protection from evil, read magic, sleep 
2nd level: continual light, detect evil, detect 
invisibility, ESP, invisibility, knock, levitate, wiz 
ard lock 

3rd level: clairaudience, clairvoyance, /ire- 
ball, fly, haste, hold person, infravision, invisi 
bility 10' radius, lightning bolt, protection from 
normal missiles, slow, water breathing 

4th level: charm monster, confusion, dimen 
sion door, hallucinatory terrain, ice storm, mass- 
morph, plant growth, polymorph other, polymorph 
self, wall of fire, wall of ice, wizard eye. 

5th level; animal growth, animate dead, 
cloudkill, feeblemind, hold monster, magic jar, 
passwall, telekinesis, teleport, transmute rock to 
mud, wall of iron, wall of stone 

6th level: antimagic shell, control weather, 
disintegrate, enchant an item, geas, globe of in 
vulnerability, invisible stalker, lower water, moue 
earth, part water, project image, stone to/lesh 

7th level: charm plants, limited wish, mass in 
visibility, power word stun, reverse gravity 
8th level: permanency 


While a list has been provided of which spells are 
known, the DM can decide if there are additional spells 


Uhdead resources 


that have been recovered by the Crown or a college and 
simply kept secret for the public interest or for more 
nefarious reasons. While all spells are supposed to be 
registered at the Dodecon, not all remain on public 
lists. TYeat the Crown and the Colleges as a limitless 
supply of resources. If the DM's story requires that the 
heroes have something, give it to them. 

Keep in mind that not all lost magic must be pow 
erful to be valuable. The Crown is dedicated to recover 
ing all lost magic. This means the heroes might be 
handsomely rewarded for recovering a weak spell that 
can be used by the public and that will improve the lives 
of all citizens (such as a cantrip that cleans clothes). 


One often finds more unliving Charonath than living 
Charonti in a civil center. As with magic, undead are 
viewed pragmatically. Charonath are tools, not figures 
of tragedy or terror. Charonti view rending after death 
as a chance to escape imprisonment in the afterlife. 
Rending allows a person to serve the community. 

The availability of undead servants and animated 
automatons to aid a party of adventurers can affect the 
balance of a campaign. These resources must be han 
dled carefully. A few undead retainers are often sent on 
any expedition for the Crown. These servants can func 
tion as bearers, laborers, or as warriors, a role that few 
living Charonti are suited for. However, avoid letting the 


"IJ OE DISnMY • 5 









COLLEOES OE WIZARDRY 


The DM may choose to run the Colleges of Wizardry as schools of specialists devoted to serving the 
public interest. 
Or the DM may choose to create con^ct between the different colleges. Even good-aligned characters 
can have dis 
tinctly different ideas about what is in the public interest. Philosophical differences among lawful, 
neutral, and 
chaotic characters are a staple of many AD&D* campaigns and serve as an excellent example of the 
kinds of con 
flict that can develop on a societal scale. If a theme of treachery or layers of intrigue is desired, 
remember that the 
founders of the Colleges of Wizardry were warring magelords. 

The colleges may operate in this campaign very much like secret societies do in history, fiction, and 
other AD&D 
game settings. To low-level characters that are members of a college, they will believe that each college 
is what it 
appears to be: groups of public servants advancing the reconstruction in their own way. Member 
characters at 
higher levels of experience may be allowed into an inner circle, discovering and learning spells that were 
believed 
to be lost but which are actually held in secret by the college, either with or without the complicity of 
the Crown. 
At the highest levels, only a select few are introduced to the hidden agenda of a college. These hidden 
agendas may 
never be discovered, but they serve to motivate plots within the empire at a level so deep that heroes 
may never be 
come aware that they are puppets of higher masters. 

Each of the colleges has a public agenda that is well known and often a source of conflict in its own right. 
How 
ever, the secret goals that drive competing colleges at the deepest levels are reflected in their hidden 
agendas. Here 
are synopses of the attitudes that motivate each college: 


College of Abjuration 

Public agenda: We serve society by protecting it 
against the ambitions of those whose visions of the fu 
ture are less than just. As we recover the past, we must 
be vigilant to its dangers. 

Hidden agenda: Enemies surround our queen. We 
must be vigilant, so that when all others betray her, we 
remain true and preserve her vision. 

College of Alteration 

Public agenda: Through our magic we will establish 
the gateways that will expand the borders of the nation 
until they again encompass the entire material world. 

Hidden agenda: By controlling the magic of the 
gates, we control the borders of the nation. We can con 
tain insurrection or secure a civil center under siege. If 
there comes a time of internal strife, it is we who will 
decide the terrain upon which a conflict is fought, and 
thus it is we who will choose who succeeds. 

College of Divination 

Public agenda: Strive to recover the past and do 
more than any college for that purpose. 

Hidden agenda: All processes are cyclical. We have 
divined our future. Our nation will rise and then fall 
again. We must collect and protect all the knowledge of 
our people so that it will be easier for distant genera 
tions to recover from disasters that lie ahead. 

College of Conjuration 

Public agenda: We are pioneers, exploring the path 
ways between the supernatural realm and our world. 
This knowledge will protect us and prevent us from 
being subjugated by the powers that lie beyond. 

Hidden agenda: The achievement of a just society 
should not be limited to the material world. When our 
strength is great enough we will storm the heavens, 
subjugate the powers of the supernatural realm, and 
free the oppressed creatures imprisoned there. 

College of Enchantment 

Public agenda: Our creations make life easier for all. 


It is we who allow society to exist by freeing so many 
from manual labor and allowing them to devote them 
selves to the needs of the nation. 

Hidden agenda: We must make magic available to 
all. If magic is controlled by a few, they will abuse it, 
and the nation will fall. 

College of Illusion 

Public agenda: We are recorders and educators, 
poets and historians. We dutifully pass the history and 
legends of our people on to the ensuing generations. 

Hidden agenda: The moments and ideas that define 
our people are in our care. We can shape reality. We 
have the power to define the past and the present. 
Thus, we will forge the future. 

College of Invocation 

Public agenda: Our future lies in galvanic research, 
not in the past. We must reawaken the spirit of cre 
ativity that raised our nation to its peak, not just dust 
and copy the achievements of our elders. 

Hidden agenda: If we continue to look backward, we 
will repeat the failings of the past. Galvanism will 
allow us to transcend magic through a technology that 
is available to all. We must, however, participate in the 
exploration of the ruins, for in the history of our school 
lies some of the most destructive magic imagined. We 
must make certain it does not fall into the hands of an 
ambitious college. 

College of Necromancy 

Public agenda: We save citizens from eternal subju 
gation in the supernatural realm of the afterlife. We 
permit people to attend to mundane tasks in death so 
that the lives of others may be spent on richer pursuits. 
We retain what we can of our ancestors so that noth 
ing of our people is lost for good. 

Hidden agenda: We will only be truly free when we 
can break the circle of life and death and Charonti can 
live eternally. We will find the secret of immortality 
and confer it upon all our people so that no plague can 
lay waste to our nation, and we will be as gods. 


4 • INTRODVCTIOH 



players use the Charonath as cannon fodder. This is not 
to say that heroes should protect undead with their 
lives. To the contrary, the purpose of the undead is to 
defend the Charonti. But the heroes should be aware 
that Charonath are in limited supply, and when they 
are destroyed the heroes are on their own. 

If the heroes must return home in the middle of an 
expedition because their Charonath were destroyed, it is 
unlikely that their patrons will think it wise to entrust 
more valuable resources to the heroes. The Crown is not 
likely to look favorably on the careless waste of Charo 
nath. However, it is recognized that destruction of un 
dead servants does occur. If the heroes return badly 
injured and their Charonath destroyed, they may not be 
viewed as having acted carelessly. It may be assumed 
that the heroes faced difficult opposition, and thus these 
explorers may be provided with more support if they try 
the mission again. Alternatively, more experienced 
Charonti nonplayer characters may be assigned to take 
command of the expedition. The DM's goal is to avoid 
giving heroes the feeling that they have an unlimited 
supply of Charonath. Conversely, don't be too stingy. 

Training b arvanccktnt 

The rules for advancement in the Player's Guide incor 
porate character growth in a Charonti campaign as a 
part of the culture. A mentor is charged with the duty of 
making certain that an apprentice is mature enough to 
handle the responsibility of increased power that comes 
with advancement. Just because a character has enough 
experience points does not mean the character will ad 
vance, simply that he or she has the potential to do so. 

Some players may become frustrated when their he 
roes do not advance automatically, and that some of the 
benefits from rising in level may be withheld by a men 
tor who does not feel a character is emotionally ready to 
handle greater knowledge. If the rules for training and 
advancement get in the way of having a good time, con 
sider them optional. They should only be used if it en 
hances the adventures. This rule can be dropped partway 
through a campaign by ruling that after reaching a par 
ticular level (5th or 6th), characters may train themselves. 
However, wizards will only be able to gain new spells 
through adventuring if they have no mentors. Or elimi 
nate the role of the mentor in level advancement and 
keep the character type around as an advisor who can 
provide direction as well as new spells on occasion. 

The Spmn oe the Charonti 

The greatest challenge for most players in a Charonti 
campaign will be adjusting to the ciolture. The queen is 
at the helm of a nation at war. Heroes that are scholars 
are expected to behave with patriotism, duty, and devo 
tion. Guildsmen are free to make what they will of their 
lives, but must never lose sight of what it means to be 
Charonti. The DM should use non-player characters to 
introduce players to Charonti attitudes. Both through 
their actions and their reactions to the behavior of the 
heroes, supporting characters can help players under 
stand how their heroes should conduct themselves. 

Charonti mentors are more interested in the wisdom 


and emotional maturity of their apprentices than in a list 
of spedlic accomplishments. No matter how many items 
a young wizard recovers from the ruins, a mentor is un 
likely to support a character if he is irresponsible or shows 
a lade of respect for both the power of magic and the wis 
dom of his superiors. Encourage players to get into the 
spirit of things. Award experience point bonuses for extra 
ordinary roleplaying. A character who bows and remains 
respectfuDy silent in the presence of a sodally superior 
character who is behaving like an idiot deserves a reward! 

Calendar & Climate 

If the isle of Jakandor is placed in an existing campaign 
world, use the calendar from that world-perhaps the 
Charonti actually invented that calendar and taught it to 
the "savages" when the world was still young. For spell 
casting purposes, Charonti weeks should be no less than 
five days and no greater than eight days long. If this 
campaign is independent, use this calendar. A year is ten 
months long. Each month has five weeks of five days. A 
year is divided into five seasons each two months long: 
a rainy, planting, dry, harvest, and winter season. 

The climate of the island varies dramatically from 
east to west. Moist winds blow year round, with the 
prevailing currents running from northeast to south 
west. To the east winds bring rain to the rolling hills. In 
central Jakandor, the moisture rains down upon the 
eastern slope of Ae mountains and runs down the val 
ley of the Uton River. In western Jakandor the clouds 
dissipate along the mountainous northern coast, leav 
ing the plateau to the south mostly dry and barren. 

The seasons pass almost unnoticed in the west, 
except for a distinct drop in temperature during win 
ter. To the east of the Thanhogathmose Mountains, 
the change of seasons is dramatic and varied. The 
rainy season is a time of winds and drenching tor 
rents that run down from the Aten Hills into Lake 
Hramihn and cause the western rivers to swell. As the 
flooding passes, rich soil is deposited in the fields and 
the planting season begins. During the dry season, 
temperatures rise but irrigation prevents the crops 
from dying. The harvest is a busy time, when many 
Charonath are taken from other duties to help bring 
in the grain. Winter on western Jakandor is mild, and 
there is snow only in the highest peaks. The eastern 
side of the island suffers a lot of snow and fierce cold. 

The WASTiMo plaoue 

The JAKANDOR; Isle 0 /Destiny - Player's Guide presents 
the basic history of the Wasting Plague. But the Wast 
ing Plague has changed, it has mutated over the cen 
turies, and a number of different strains have arisen. 

The Wasting Plague is a difficult thing to play and 
control. No player has fun when his or her character is 
punished for acting heroically or even reasonably. 
Thus, the plague should be played with extreme care. 
Include it only when it advances the story. Use it as an 
element of atmosphere, rather than as an obstacle. 
Often, encountering a scene where the plague has 
wreaked havoc but is no longer a threat can be enough 
to create a mood of danger. The DM may want to allow 
the plague to mutate or introduce a new strain. 


ULI OF DSSTINY • 5 





Chapter 1: 

THE KNORR 


¦ he Knorr 
are a young 
race of warriors 
whose culture 
revolves around 
personal honor 
and glory in com 
bat. They are the refugees of a war 
with a mercantile race that began to 
colonize their coastal villages. The Knorr 
arrived on Jakandor after being swept off 
course by a terrific storm during the last of 
their great battles. They believe that their god 
dess, the War Mother, sunk the entire world be 
neath the waves because the Knorr were out of 
balance with the world. They believe the War Mother 
placed the Knorr on Jakandor to redeem them. 

The very existence of the Charonti, or "the broken 
people," is an affront to the Knorr. The creation of un 
dead is a flagrant violation of the balance between life 
and death. The Knorr feel they must free these bound 
spirits to their final rest by destroying the undead. The 
Knorr view the Charonti as a spiritually bankrupt and 
cowardly people, evil and without honor. The Knorr 
fear magic and would never consider actually parlay 
ing with Charonti, for they could be enchanted and 
suffer an afterlife as an undead slave. They believe 
that the ruins full of treasure have been placed by the 
War Mother to test the Knorr's courage. 

The Knorr are engaged in a Holy War to restore 
the world. They must regain honor and destroy 
Charonti. 

The Knorr will almost always attack living 
Charonti and undead Charonath on sight. They will 
almost never speak with a Charonti and certainly will 
never trust one. They plunder the ruins for tokens of 
their heroism, but are somewhat distrustful of magic 
and may simply destroy things that may be of use to 
the Charonti but which they do not themselves un 
derstand. 


The 

Knorr con 
cept of family is 
extremely flex 
ible. They will 
even adopt the 
children of fallen 
victims, prisoners, 
and slaves. A clan may 
contain from 30 to 1,000 
Knorr. Each clan worships a totem 
spirit or animal that is considered to 
be the clan's guardian. 

Another important aspect of Knorr spirituality is 
that of the beast cults. Each cult worships a totem an 
imal and each beast cult is devoted to mastering a 
particular style of combat, commonly based on the 
fighting techniques of the totemic animal. 

Codes oe 
Honor 


Clans & CvLts 

Knorrman culture revolves around a fierce loyalty to 
one's family and clan. The clan is an extended family, 
with relatives scattered across the face of Jakandor. 


The Knorr are an extremely religious race, following 
strict Codes of Honor. These codes are oftentimes 
their greatest weakness. The Knorr consider the use of 
missile weapons cowardly. Stealth, cunning, and sur 
prise are tools of the weak. There is no honor in de 
feating an opponent who one clearly outmatches. 
Battles are often clusters of single combat rather than 


6 • Chapter Ohe 










Code of the Clan 

1. Extend kindness to those Knorr who cross 
your door. 

2. Declare yourself and your intentions in all 
cases. 

3. Assume the claim of a kinsman who has 
died or cannot resolve it on his own. 

4. Avenge the killing of a kinsman. 

Code of the wardioa 

1. Never strike a Knorr opponent without 
warning. 

2. Never engage in mortal combat with a 
Knorr opponent who is less than your 
equal. 

3. Only strike a Knorr opponent when he is 
ready to receive your blow. 

4. Never use a force of numbers against an 
opponent. 

5. Never pursue a foe fleeing from the field 
of combat. 

6. Never mock your opponent 

7. Missile weapons are for killing animals, 
not Knorr. 

8. Pray for your fallen enemy. 

Code of the hunter 

1. Do not hunt your spirit brother, (totem an 
imal) 

2. Hunt only what you must. 

3. Pray for your fallen quarry. 


Character kits 

The following character kits are among those 
described more completely in the JAKANDOR; 
Island of War product These short descriptions 
will serve as examples of how the Knorr think 
and behave. Knorr may also be treated as en 
emies for the campaign's Charonti heroes if 
ana wnen Iney are rea'ay to encourlier tne 
Knorr culture. Most encounters with these 
proud warriors, at least at first, are likely to 
occur near the center of the island of Jakan- 
dor. It is likely that the Knorr barbarians en 
countered also will be parties of their people's 
heroes exploring this strange land. 

Each character kit description is pre 
sented in the following format: 

The first paragraph presents a brief state 
ment of the character's special status in Knorr 
culture. 

Requirements: This lists the minimum 
ability scores and other necessary attributes. 

Animal Totem: This category only applies 
to members of beast cults. The spirit animal is 
honored by clan members. Members may 
adorn themselves with feathers, furs, tattoos, 
ritual scars, or paint to look like their spirit 
animal. It is considered bad luck to kill or wit 
ness the death of one's totem animal. 

Role: This lists the kit's status among the 
Knorr. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Weapon proficien 
cies are key to the Knorr character kits, as 
many kits place restrictions on which weapon 
proficiencies can be chosen by a character 
pursuing this role. 

Equipment: If a character is required to 
use certain types of weapons, armor, or other 
gear, these restrictions are listed here. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: These charac 
ter kits are distinguished by common skills. 
Bonus proficiencies are skills automatically 
available to the character. Recommended profi 
ciencies list skills that a character pursuing 
this role may possess. The number listed in 
parentheses is the number of proficiency slots 
required to learn this skill. Banned proficien 
cies lists skills that may not be learned by the 
character. 

Special Benefits: This kit may grant ad 
vantages for characters that take on this role. 

Special Hindrances: This kit may impose 
unique vulnerabilities, weaknesses, or obsta 
cles for characters that take on this role. 

Magical Abilities: This section describes 
any spells or spell-like abilities (clan rituals) 
which a character that takes on this role may 
possess. 


Tki KHORR • 7 









organized efforts. The three codes are listed here to 
give an idea of their impact on Knorr conduct. 

These ideas of conduct are reserved for other 
honorable Knorr. The Knorr tend to treat Charonti 
more like a hunter treats his quarry. However, Knorr 
will often behave in a manner that they see as heroic 
but a Charonti would see as foolhardy or simply irra 
tional. 

The companion product,/AKANDOR; Island o/War, 
provides everything the DM needs to know to play the 
barbaric invaders of Jakandor. Until the players begin 
to make earnest efforts to venture eastward, the DM 
may provide simple encounters with crazed savage 
warriors. Naturally, heroes can be kept more than 
busy simply advancing the reconstruction and negoti 
ating their way through the politics of a nation in re 
birth. 

Warrior kits 

Backlasher (Cult of the Hawk) 

These Knorr are master hunters who are experts with 
their specialized throwing clubs-known as backlash- 
ers-which return to the thrower like a boomerang. 
The backlasher club returns even if the attack is suc 
cessful. 

Requirements; Dexterity 13. 

Animal Totem: Hawk. 

Role: Highly regarded as game hunters, backlash- 
ers are often found among Knorrman hunting parties. 
Due to their tracking skills, backlashers are also excel 
lent bounty hunters to track a dishonorable Knorr 
outlaw or other honorless being. Backlashers may not 
use their missile weapon against honorable Knorr. 
But, like other Knorr, they are not bound by Knorr 
Codes and may use their missile weapons against 
such foes as outlaws, foreigners, Charonti, and mon 
sters. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A backlasher must use one 
initial proficiency slot to learn the use of the back 
lasher club and another on the bolo. A backlasher is 
able to specialize with either of these weapons. These 
are the only weapons this warrior can ever gain profi 
ciency in; all unused weapon proficiency slots may be 
used as nonweapon proficiency slots. 

Equipment: As noted, the backlasher may become 
proficient with only two weapons. 

Backlasher club: Size; S; Type; B; Speed: 3; 

Dmg: Id8/ld6; RoF: X; Range: 10/20/30. 

Bolo: Size: M; Type: B; Speed: 8; Dmg: Id4/ld4; RoF: )i\ 
Range: 20/40/60. 

Armor: If a backlasher wears armor heavier than hide 
(AC 6), he or she suffers a -2 penalty on any attack 
rolls. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Bonus: TYacking. Recom 
mended: Animal Handling (1), Hunting (1), Religion (2), 
Rope Use (1), Set Snares (1); Barred: Astrology. Black- 
smithing, Weaponsmithing. 

Special Benefits; The backlasher club inflicts ld8 
points of damage on a successful attack and returns 
to the thrower regardless of whether the club hits its 


target. A backlasher can automatically catch a return 
ing club, but only if he or she takes no other action the 
round following the throw. This club also can be used 
in melee combat. 

In a backlasher's hands, a bolo returns to its 
thrower, but only if it misses its target. Catching a re 
turning bolo requires no action the round following 
the throw. 

Special Hindrances: A backlasher may use any 
weapon but can gain proficiency with only the back 
lasher club and the bolo. When hunting any non- 
Knorr creature (Knorr outlaws qualify), the backlasher 
is free to use these special skills, but in combat 
against honorable Knorr warriors, the backlasher 
must adhere to the Knorr Codes of conduct and will 
not attack with missile weapons, instead closing to 
melee with the foe. 

Backlashers do not gain multiple attacks with the 
thrown backlash club or bolo due to level advance 
ment when used as a missile weapon. They do, how 
ever, enjoy gain extra attacks due to specialization 
when using their weapons in melee. 

Magical Abilities: Backlashers can perform clan 
rituals. 

Forestwalker (Cult of the Stag) 

These Knorr warriors rely on their ability to hide and 
move quickly through the shadows of the heavy 
forests that blanket much of Jakandor. They are noted 
for the green and black pigments they use to paint 
their skin, the intricate designs worked into the 
leather of their clothing, and the leather laces they 
use to tie their clothes snug to avoid snagging 
branches and bushes. 

Requirements: Dexterity 12, Wisdom 12. 

Animal Totem: Stag. 

Role: Forestwalkers act as scouts and guides for 
other Knorr, a role these men and women relish. They 
enjoy wandering and often living amongst the 
wooded glades, bowers, and streams of Jakandor. 
While they do use their talent for stealth to gain an 
advantage over their foes, they still follow the Knorr 
Codes of conduct. For example, a forestwalker may 
suddenly appear in front of an opponent but will not 
ambush from cover. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A forestwalker must de 
vote one of his initial proficiency slots to the short 
bow. 

Equipment: The forestwalker has no restricted 
weapons, but must learn to use a short bow at first 
level. A forestwalker may wear only leather or hide 
armor and may not carry a shield. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Bonus: Direction Sense; 
Recommend; Animal Handling (1), Animal Lore (1), 
Bowyer/fletcher (1), Cobbling (1), Disguise (2), Fire 
building (1), Healing (3), Herbalism (3), Hunting (1), 
Leatherworking (1), Musical Instrument (2), Reading 
Lips (3), Religion (2), Set Snares (1), Singing (1), Track 
ing (2), Weather Sense (1). Barred: Astrology, Naviga 
tion, Seamanship. 

Special Benefits; When in wooded terrain, a 
forestwalker is able to hide in shadows and move 


8 • Ckaptcr On£ 



silently as a ranger two levels higher than the forest- 
walker. The forestwalker may disappear from view 
from anyone who is at least 15 feet away with a suc 
cessful hide in shadows roll. Anyone trying to track a 
forestwalker suffers a -5 penalty, unless the forest- 
walker deliberately leaves a trail. 

Special Hindrances: The forestwalker feels out of 
place anywhere but his woodlands. When in sur 
roundings that do not include trees or dense shrubs, 
the forestwalker suffers a -2 penalty to his attack 
rolls. 

Note that the forestwalker's hide in shadows and 
move silently abilities only function in a forest. 

Magical abilities; Forestwalkers can perform clan 
rituals. 

Sentinel (Cult of the Fox) 

These acutely aware warriors make valuable 
members of any clan. They dye their hair bright red in 
homage to their totem animal and as a warning to 
those foolish enough to challenge them. They possess 
an uncanny ability to sense danger. 

Requirements: Intelligence 13, Dexterity 13. 

Animal Totem: Fox. 

Role; These red-haired warriors often act as 
guards of important sites, a clan village, or a remote 
outpost. They may work alone or with other sentinels. 
Their heightened awareness is always valuable in 
combat. 

Weapon Proficiencies: TWo of the sentinel's initial 
weapon proficiency slots must be used to learn to 
fight with a dagger and spear (the former for its gen 
eral utility and the latter for hunting). 

Equipment: Sentinels may not use a melee 
weapon, other than a spear, with a speed factor 
greater than 5. They may wear any armor but may not 
wear a helmet. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Bonus: None. Recom 
mended; Blind-fighting (2), Cooking (1), Fire-building 
(1), Hunting (1), Religion (2), Survival (2). Barred: Astrol 
ogy, Disguise. 

Special Benefits: When alone or in the company of 
other sentinels, a sentinel will never be surprised, 
even if asleep as an encounter begins. In the company 
of non-sentinel characters, a sentinel may be sur 
prised, but the sentinel gains a +1 bonus to his sur 
prise roll, even when asleep. If not surprised, a 
sentinel becomes immediately aware of an encounter. 
That character may act or attack immediately. This 
ability is negated if the sentinel is unconscious, not 
merely asleep, or is under the influence of some 
magic such as a sleep spell. 

Special Hindrances: Because a sentinel has 
trained to sleep so lightly, rest is vitally important to 
the character. For every day that a sentinel goes with 
out at least 8 hours of uninterrupted rest, she loses 1 
point from both her Dexterity and Constitution 
scores. 

Lost points are regained at the rate of 1 point each 
for every 8 hours of uninterrupted rest. 

Magical Abilities; Sentinels can perform clan ritu 
als. 


PRIEST KITS 

Storm priest 

These Knorrman priests revere the natural forces 
of the world, the wind and the weather. They see the 
natural elements as spirits who must be appeased or 
controlled in order to protect the Knorr world. Like 
other Knorrman priests, their religion is not organized 
into groups, though occasionally small bands may 
gather to study and pray together. They often can be 
seen praying atop hills in fierce rain, biting winds, and 
dangerous lightning storms. They wear several layers 
of clothing to protect them from the elements. Their 
most recognizable feature is that they braid their un 
ruly hair and beards and coat them with wax and in 
cense. 

Requirements: Wisdom 12, Charisma 13. 

Animal totem: None other than that of their clan. 

Role: Storm priests are wild visionaries who can 
influence forces beyond the reach of the War Mother 
and the hearth gods. Other Knorr respect storm 
priests, though they are not fully understood and are 
viewed by their people as outsiders. While they prefer 
to live alone, exposed to the elements, a storm priest 
may seek the warmth and comfort of his kin to sur 
vive extremely foul weather such as winter storms. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A storm priest must use his 
two first proficiencies to learn the short bow and 
mace. 

Equipment: A storm priest may wear any armor 
and may use missile weapons. He may not use pole 
arms and is restricted to the use of blunt melee 
weapons. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Bonus: Weather Sense. 
Recommended: Bowyer/fletcher (1), Dancing (1), Fire 
building (1), Languages, Modem (1), Reading/Writing 
(1), Religion (1), Singing (1), Survival (3). Barred; Agri 
culture, Animal Lore, Astrology. 

Special Benefits: Storm priests are the only Knorr 
who can use missile weapons against other Knorr 
without fear of condemnation or loss of honor for 
breaking the Knorr Codes. The Knorr believe the mis 
siles of a storm priest are akin to the wind or bolts of 
lightning the priests are known to command. These 
missiles are righteous and vengeful weapons of the 
elements. The Knorr view the victims of such missile 
fire as those who have offended the spirits of the 
storm. The storm priest must follow all the other 
Knorr Codes of conduct and often alert their opponent 
before firing on them. 

A storm priest coats the ends of his braids with 
incense and wax before battle. He then ignites them 
before or during melee. This action requires a full 
round to ignite the braids. If interrupted, the braids 
fail to catch fire and the priest must try again. 

When lit, the braids smolder and smoke, forming 
a blinding cloud around the priest. Those attacking 
the priest suffer a -1 penalty to their attack rolls as 
their target is partially obscured by the smoke. Oppo 
nents who enter into melee with a storm priest must 
save vs. poison to resist the foul-smelling smoke. 


Yks Knorr • 9 



which is an irritation to their eyes and nose. Failure 
results in an additional -1 penalty to the foe's attack 
rolls for the next ld4 rounds. 

The cloud of smoke lasts for ld6+3 rounds before 
the wax and incense are burned up-at which point 
the storm priest must take one full round to extin 
guish the embers and prevent his hair from catching 
fire. In an emergency, a storm priest may let his braids 
bum for an additional ld6 rounds, but he suffers ld4 
points of damage from the experience and may not 
use this tactic at all for the next ld4 weeks while his 
hair grows back. 

Special Hindrances: The distinctive odor of a 
storm priest gives foes a +2 bonus on their surprise 
rolls. 

Magical abilities: Storm priests have major access 
to the spheres of all, astral, creation, divination, elemen 
tal, guardian, healing, necromantic, protection, summoning, 
sun, and weather. They have minor access to the 
sphere of plant. They may turn or control undead nor 
mally. They can perform clan rituals. 

War Priest 

These clerics serve the War Mother, the supreme fig 
ure in the Knorr religion. They preside over rituals 
conducted prior to battle and are fierce opponents in 
combat, often leading charges and rallying those 
Knorr around them to greater feats of barbarity. 

Requirements: Wisdom 13, Strength 12, lawful 
alignment. 

Animal Tbtem: Clan guardian. 

Role: These ferocious priests, like other Knorr 
priests, have no organized hierarchy. Instead, they 
serve the War Mother as individuals. War priests spe 
cialize in destructive magic and those spells relating 
to the animal children of the War Mother. 

A war priest is often found at a forge, hammering 
out axe and sword blades. Weaponsmithing is a form 
of spiritual meditation to these clerics, who often 
stock the armories in their villages with their 
weapons. 

War priests are often sought out to bless duelists, 
raiding parties, and war bands. More than simply spir 
itual leaders, war priests serve as examples to all 
Knorr, as they pursue glory in combat. They shun 
stealth and deceit, even more than other Knorr, and 
celebrate simple bravery and valor. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A war priest must use his 
first three slots (two initial and one at 4th level) to be 
come proficient with the battle-axe, long sword, and 
short bow. 

Equipment: War priests may use any weapon and 
may wear any armor. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Bonus: Animal Lore, 
Weaponsmithing. Recommended: Ancient History (1), 
Animal Handling (1), Animal Tiraining (1), Armorer (3), 
Blacksmithing (1), Bowyer/fletcher (2), Hunting (2), 
Languages, Modem (1), Religion (1), Riding, land-based 
(1), Set Snares (2). Barred: Agriculture, Astrology, 
Weather Sense. 

Special Benefits: A war priest may specialize in 
the use of a single melee weapon; however, the bene 


fits of that specialization apply only when he's using 
a specialized weapon that he made himself. The priest 
must be at least 8th level to specialize, as this level is 
the first time the priest has a weapon proficiency slot 
that the player is free to assign as he wishes. 

Special Hindrances: Due to their status in the 
Knorr society, these clerics are absolutely bound to act 
according to the Knorr Codes of conduct and are pun 
ished if they break the codes, even unintentionally. 

Magical Abilities: War priests have major access 
to the spheres of all, animal, combat, healing, protection, 
and summoning. They have minor access to the 
spheres of divination, necromantic, plant, sun, and 
weather. They can turn or control undead normally 
and can perform clan rituals. 

ROOVE KIT 

Scavenger 

Scavengers prefer to spend their time scouring the 
ruins of Jakandor for treasure. Often living a solitary 
existence in a small camp far from home and hearth, 
the scavenger's goal is to unearth artifacts or treasure 
that will bring glory to her and her kinsmen. 

Requirements: Strength of 12 or less, Dexterity 13, 
Intelligence 13. 

Animal Totem: Clan guardian. 

Role: Distinct individualists, scavengers come 
from all walks of Knorr life. Some have an almost 
scholarly fascination for the past, while others exhibit 
the wild obsession of gold prospectors. In a society of 
warriors, those with less impressive physical skills 
find this a way to contribute to their clans. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A scavenger must use one 
of her initial proficiency slots to learn the short bow, 
essential for hunting game animals. Scavengers may 
use any other weapon normally allowed to thieves. 

Equipment: Scavengers can use any weapons 
useable by thieves, cannot use a shield, and can wear 
only leather, studded leather, or padded leather 
armor. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Bonus: Ancient History, 
Mining. Recommended: Appraising (1), Brewing (1), 
Cooking (1), Fire-building (1), Hunting (2), Languages, 
Ancient (2), Musical Instrument (1), Religion (2), Rope 
Use (1), Set Snares (1), Survival (3). Barred: Astrology. 

Special Benefits: A scavenger spends so much 
time sifting through debris in Ae ruins of Jakandor 
that he has a chance to identify the function of any 
magical item (just as a bard does). This chance to 
identify an item begins at 5% at 1st level, and there 
after improves by +15% per level to a maximum of 
95%. 

Since scavengers chose to live alone, they must 
sometimes sacrifice personal honor in order to ensure 
survival. To this end, scavengers possess the standard 
thieving skill of backstabbing. 

Scavengers can learn to cast wizard spells as a 
bard does, but have none to start with and must ac 
quire them through their adventures beginning at 2nd 
level. 


lO • CKRPTI R OMl 



Special Hindrances; Though scavengers function 
as rogues, they cannot pick pockets or open locks. At 
1st level they gain only 30 bonus points to divide 
among their thieving skills (a maximum of 15 points 
to any one skill) and gain only 20 points at subsequent 
levels. 

Although a scavenger may have some command 
of wizard spells, he'll only cast a spell in a life-or- 
death situation or when he's alone. Using magic in 
front of witnesses is liable to get the scavenger con 
demned as an outlaw. Scavengers follow similar tac 
tics regarding their backstabbing ability. 

Magical Ability; Scavengers may perform clan rit 
uals, plus they have the potential to use wizard spells 
at the same rate as bards. 

WlZAUD KIT 

Seer 

With her unique ability to see the future, a seer is a 
feared and resented, yet important, part of Knorr soci 
ety. If a seer's skill in seeing the future is a blessing, 
then her curse is that she cannot lie. 

Requirements; Strength 13, Intelligence 12, Wis 
dom 16, any non-chaotic alignment. 

Animal Totem; Clan guardian. 

Role; Since her magical and divinatory powers are 
drawn from a source other Knorr do not understand 
and cannot access, even her own kinsmen treat a seer 
as an outcast. Also working against the seer is the fact 
her divinations are often vague, incomplete, or subject 
to interpretation. This leads, on many occasions, to 
where a seer's prediction is later decided by the Knorr 
community to have been incorrect. 

Seers are often viewed as being disrespectful of 
clan traditions and beliefs, but this trait varies among 
individuals. Occasionally, a Knorr leader will take a 
seer as a trusted confidante and counselor, raising her 
to a position of social and economic power and promi 
nence in the community. 

Weapon Proficiencies; A seer can become profi 
cient with the dagger, dart, staff, and sling. In addi 
tion, the seer can wield a long sword, battle axe, or 
spear and though the seer may not become proficient 
with these weapons, she may use weapon proficiency 
slots to decrease the penalty for using these weapons. 

Equipment; A seer can wear no armor but may 
carry a shield. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies; Bonus: Astrology, Read 
ing/writing. Recommended: Ancient history (1), Cooking 
(1), Disguise (2), Fire-building (1), Hunting (2), Lan 
guages, Ancient (1), Local History (2), Religion (2), 
Spellcraft (1). Barred: Armorer, Blacksmithing, Blind 
fighting, Bowyer/fletcher, Etiquette, Weaponsmithing. 

Special Benefits: A seer begins her career with a 
crow as a familiar. It is not necessary for the seer to 
learn and cast find familiar in order to obtain this com 
panion. If the crow is killed or abandoned, a find famil 
iar spell must be cast for a new familiar to be found. 
This spell always delivers a crow for a familiar. 


Crow familiar: AC 7; MV 1, Fl 36 (B); HD: hp: 
3+1/level of seer; TAHCO: 20; #AT: 1; Dmg: 1; SA: 10% 
likely to attack an eye; victim loses eye if attack hits; 
SD: superior eyesight; can't be surprised in daylight; 
SZ: S (2^'); ML Average (8-10); 

Int; semi- (4); AL: N; XP: 15. 

As noted above, a seer can wield a battle axe, long 
sword, or spear though she cannot become proficient 
with any of these weapons. She can, however, spend 
weapon proficiency slots to reduce the normal -5 non 
proficiency penalty for these three weapons at a rate 
of one slot equals a 1-point reduction of the penalty. 
One weapon slot spent in this manner reduces the 
penalty for all three weapons, not just one of the three 
listed. 

Special Hindrances; A seer can never knowingly 
tell a lie, even to an enemy. If a seer speaks an untruth 
or in any way conveys false information (by sign lan- 
^age, writing, gestures, body movements, etc.), the 
lie is immediately seen by all to be what it is. In effect, 
it's just as if the person or persons presented with the 
false information had successfully cast a detect lie 
spell. 

It's believed that the seer's close connection to her 
divination magic makes it impossible for her to mis 
represent herself in any way. Since the seer can see 
the truth through her divination magic, she is corre 
spondingly compelled to speak that truth and suffer 
whatever consequences it may bring. 

Withholding information is not the same as lying. 
To prevent being caught in a lie, the seer must side 
step the question or try to satisfy the questioner with 
a riddle or parable. This evasiveness is part of the rea 
son seers have a difficult time fitting into Knorr soci 
ety. Also, a seer cannot be accused of lying if one of 
her predictions later turns out to be untrue. 

A seer cannot cast any spell while holding any 
weapon other than a dagger, dart, staff, or sling. Nei 
ther can she cast any spell while holding a shield, un 
less it is a spell that requires only a verbal component. 

Magical Abilities; The seer is treated as a special 
ist in the school of Greater Divination who has access 
to all schools except inuocatio?v'cuocation, enchantment/ 
charm, and illusion/phantasm. This is a variant of the 
standard game rule concerning opposition schools. If 
a spell belongs to more than one school and any of 
those schools are barred from the seer, the spell can 
not be cast. The only exceptions to this rule are the 
divination/enchantment spell magic mirror and the 
divination/illusion spell screen. 

The seer has no ability to perform clan rituals, but 
can be the recipient of clan ritual. 

Other Kits 

The Island Of War product contains details on many 
more character kits that are available to Knorr players 
and their heroes (or the NPCs). 


Tki KHOM • 11 



The stone juggernaut, the most powerful of the 
three, is also the slowest and as such is used primar 
ily for defense or to hold important ground. 

The wooden juggernaut is the most common 
type. These totems are fast-moving and de- 
¦h\/L^ structive. 

The wicker juggernaut is a wicked 
device that has fallen into disuse. 
If A These totems are set ablaze and 

Vy / deal flaming destruction in their 
^ wake. Only Knorr clans without honor 
retain the secrets of their construction. 

As physically massive and imposing 
guardian juggernauts often 
Ik'' also possess potent magical abilities. 

T'l Some of these powers are crafted 

' A into the juggernaut's construction 

IlM s\) 4 by placing ancient Charonti magi- 

nWnjjl ) A, cal items and artifacts within the 
J great statue. The Knorr somehow 
il PjKlP then are able to use these items as 

lUlPBli ( juggernaut's array of 

w* uj powers. 

details on the construc- 
^^ ml *1 ( operation of the Knorr's 

^ ' .1 ) guardian juggernauts can be found 

^ ^ in the jAKANDOR; Island of War 

TO', V 1 4 product. 


KNORR 

Magic 


t iCjii^vaDD 
' ¦ 


EoTlMt section introduces new magic, unique 

BMUn' to the Knorr culture, called clan rituals. A 
few new spells for wizards and priests are 
included below. 


Guardian 

JVGGERNAVtS 

As the morning mist rises across an open field, the 
sound of thunder rolls across the earth and sends a 
flock of birds scattering into the cloudless sky. This 
does not signal the approach of a storm. It means that 
one of the Knorr's totems of wood, wicker, or stone 
has been animated and this behemoth, this guardian 
juggernaut, now seeks a foe, another of its kind from 
a rival clan, to battle and to settle a debt of honor. 

Any clan can construct a guardian juggernaut in 
the image of its guardian spirit. These magical totem 
constructs are controlled by the consciousness of a 
single clan member and sent into battle, usually with 
devastating results for the clan's enemies (unless they 
have a juggernaut of their own). Each type of jugger 
naut has different strengths and different uses. 


Clam Rituals 

A deeply religious people, the Knorr have developed 
customs and rituals that they all share and practice. 
Hunters pray for their dead quarries and farmers 
throw stones into the air on cloudy days to frighten 
the spirits into releasing rain. Knorr society does have 
wizards and priests as other people do, but magic is a 
part of the Knorr's world, not the spellcasters' exclu 
sive domain. 

Knorr characters use nonweapon proficiencies to 
learn clan rituals at a rate of one slot per ritual. They 
may learn only one ritual per level. However, some rit 
uals cost nothing to learn, may be learned at any time, 
and do not count against the one ritual/level limit. For 
instance, all Knorr learn the ritual, prayer for the dead, 
at no cost. Rituals require an ability check to perform. 
The following examples provide a sample of Aese rit 
uals and what they can do. The DM may create his 
own clan rituals. 


18 • Chaptsr One 



Blessed Hunt (Enchantment/Charm) Cost: 1 slot 

Sphere: Ritual 

Range:Touch 

Components: V, S, M 

Duration: Special 

Performing Time: 1 round 

Area of Effect: One weapon 

Ability Check: Wisdom 

Saving Throw: None 

Frequency: Once per day 

This is a prayer that Knorr recite over their 
weapons at the beginning of a hunt. The performer 
cradles her weapon and whispers a blessing directed 
for the weapon and the specific target of the hunt. The 
creature hunted must be named during the ritual. 
Thereafter, the weapon gains a +1 bonus for its first 
strike only against the target creature of the type 
named during the ritual. 

If the weapon is used against another creature be 
fore it is used against the target named during the 
casting, the ritual is spoiled and the bonus fades. 

This prayer can be used to hunt only normal ani 
mals or outlaw Knorr. It's not effective against mon 
sters, Charonti, or other sentient creatures. This ritual 
gives no cumulative effect if cast on the same weapon 
by different performers. 

Cry of the Clan (Alteration) Cost: 1 slot 

Sphere: Ritual 

Range: Unlimited 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 1 round 

Performing Time: 1 round 

Area of Effect: Kinsmen 

Ability Check: Strength 

Saving Throw: None 

Frequency: Once per week 

When a performer uses this ritual, his kinsmen- 
no matter how far away they may be-gain the premo 
nition that the performer is in danger. This ritual 
requires the performer to throw his arms to his sides, 
drop to his knees, and scream the battle cry of the clan. 
Each clan's cry is distinctive and recognizable to kins 
men, but sounds like an inarticulate wail to others. 

Only kinsmen within the performer's immediate 
family or those who have seen the performer in the 
last year have a chance of hearing the cry. Any quali 
fied kinsman must make a successful Wisdom check 
to become aware that his kinsman is in trouble. 

This cry does not provide any idea of the per 
former's location. Those who know where the per 
former is may strive to come to his aid, while others 
feel compelled to make inquiries or may simply have 
a feeling that something untoward has happened. The 
Charonti have seen Knorr perform this ritual before 
the Charonath and the Charonti's magics over 
whelmed the barbarians. 


Prayer for the Dead (Abjuration) Cost: 0 slots 

Sphere: Ritual 

Range: 5 feet or touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Permanent 

Performing Time: 1 round 

Area of effect: 1 character or creature 

Ability Check: See below 

Saving Throw: None 

Frequency: Once per round 

Every Knorr learns this ritual as a child and is able 
to use it at any time. This ritual is performed over a 
Knorr or his hunted prey soon after it dies. Physical 
contact with the creature is not necessary. If the per 
former does touch the deceased and makes a suc 
cessful Wisdom check, this ritual prevents the victim 
from rising as undead or being animated by any 
means. The Knorr believe the victim's spirit has joined 
it ancestors. 

This ritual does not affect undead, monsters, 
giant animals, outlaw Knorr, or Charonti. This ritual 
does not negate a raise dead or resurrection spell. 

Wizard spslls 

Master Weapon (Alteration) 

Level: First 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: Iround/level 
Casting Time:l round 
Area of Effect: One weapon 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell temporarily negates weapon restric 
tions or penalties for wielding a weapon without pro 
ficiency. The seer may use the master weapon freely, 
with any Strength or Dexterity bonuses that may 
apply, for the duration of the spell. To cast this spell, 
the seer must hold the weapon overhead and invoke 
the name of the War Mother. This incantation sounds 
like a war cry and cannot be performed quietly. If the 
seer makes a successful save vs. spells, the weapon 
flashes with light. If the save is failed, the seer faces 
all normal penalties for using the weapon and will not 
be able to wield it at all if of a type forbidden to wiz 
ards. This spell may be cast on any ordinary or magi 
cal weapon. The seer may cast this spell only once 
every Id4-t4 days and can only cast the spell on him or 
herself. 

PRISST SP£LLS 

Ghost Shirt (Abjuration) 

Level: Second 
Sphere: Protection 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 tum/level 


TKS KMORR • 13 


Casting Tiine: 1 turn 
Area of Effect: 1 creature 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell protects the recipient from attacks by 
undead, providing a +1 improvement to his Armor 
Class and a +1 bonus to saving throws against attacks 
made by undead. To cast this spell, the priest must 
paint a white stripe around the recipient's arm, torso, 
or head. This band vanishes when the spell's duration 
expires. 

Undead Thboo (Abjuration) 

Level: Third 
Sphere: Protection 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 tum/level 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Area of Effect: 1 character 
Saving Throw; None 

The recipient of this spell is allowed a Wisdom 
check to resist any nonphysical attack or special abil 
ity of an undead creature, including aging, charm, dis 
ease, fear, life-energy drain, magic jar, paralyzation, 
and suggestion. The Wisdom check is in addition to 
any saving throw allowed and is rolled prior to the 
saving throw. 

Playino 

THE KNOAA 

The Knorr view the Charonti (The Broken Ones or 
Bone-Gnawers as the Knorr refer to them) as corrupt, 
their necromantic magic an affront to the great Bal 
ance of the world. The Knorr believe the Knorr were 
punished by the War Mother because they let the 
world fall out of Balance. She sent a great storm to 
sweep the Knorr out to sea and away from their 
homeland and the invaders. The War Mother created 
Jakandor so that the Knorr might redeem themselves. 
The wise War Mother even provided a target to gain 
that redemption, the Charonti. The Knorr believe that 
if they destroy the Charonti, the War Mother wiU for 
give them and she will remake their homeland. 

The Charonti's use of undead is perhaps the most 
grievous sin against the Balance to the Knorr, who re 
lease the spirits of their dead to roam the afterlife and 
commune with their ancestors. To keep the spirits of 
their ancestors trapped in their dead bodies for an in 
finity of slavery is beyond the Knorr's understanding 
and is responsible for the Knorr's hatred of the 
Charonti and their constant attempts to destroy all the 
Charonath. The Knorr believe they are freeing the spir 
its of these undead to a joyful existence in the afterlife. 


14 • Ckaptir OMI 


advehtvre 

Seeds 

The following present themes that the DM can use for 
his heroes to explore the nature of the Charonti way of 
life. In addition, an adventure. Graduation Exercise, has 
been included to introduce players to this campaign. 

College Intrigue 

This theme relates to Charonti history and the war 
ring magelords. After these arrogant, power-hungry 
despots finally came together to rebuild the empire 
under the benevolent and just Crown, what the 
Charonti now know of as the eight Colleges of Magic 
slowly formed. Many rivalries existed between the 
various magelords and their assistants and appren 
tices, and many of those rivalries continue to exist 
today, though they are altered in form and less lethal 
than before. 

Nevertheless, rivalries between colleges can form 
adventures unto themselves or can serve to provide 
subplots within other ongoing adventure scenarios. 
An adventure idea might include: a magical prank 
played by the heroes against members of one of the 
heroes' colleges or a prank played by other college 
members against the heroes, trying, through magic, 
subterfuge, or even breaking-and-entering to gain 
some embarrassing or incriminating evidence that a 
rival college has been conducting illegal magical re 
search or withholding spells or magical knowledge 
from the Crown. Conflicts that could arise between 
colleges include; a game to curry royal favor, a race to 
explore a newly discovered ruin, or a rivalry between 
a hero mage and a nonplayer mage to win some goal 
(be it the attention of a mentor, command of an expe 
dition, or the hand of one's true love). 

For Queen and Country 

The heroes could enter the employ of good Queen 
Nefti (temporarily or if they do well, permanently). 
While at first this idea might seem restrictive, trusted 
servants of the Crown often enjoy expanded privileges 
in society. They may hear all the latest news and gos 
sip from their college or profession (their exploits are 
well known to mentors and admired by peers, though 
a few of each might be jealous). Or they may gain ac 
cess to restricted, powerful magic and magical items. 

Further, capable heroes could be assigned any 
conceivable type of activity by the Crown, including 
caravan-guard duty, envoy or escort of important 
people or items, missions to other civil centers, hunt 
ing outlaws and bandits, exploring ruins, or exploring 
the far eastern reaches of the empire and the primi 
tive Knorr that have taken up residence there. 

The Castes 

Any society with a caste system offers numerous ad 
venture opportunities, especially if the heroes are 


from different castes. Scholars live to serve the 
Crown, while guildsmen work to improve their fam 
ily's financial status. 

As a DM, play the interests of scholars and guilds 
men against one another. If a guildsman finds a cache 
of treasure or magic, she may claim it for her family, 
while a scholar hero might insist that it all rightly be 
longs to the Crown and the government should decide 
how it is allotted. Or, if the heroes are all of one caste, 
they may develop nemeses from the other. 

Map 

REP£A£NCES 

It's time to reveal that the poster map for Isle of Des 
tiny is not entirely accurate. The trees on the far east 
ern end of the island have been cleared along the river 
valleys, as the Knorr have settled those areas in some 
what larger numbers than the Charonti believe. Major 
features and coastlines are correct, but only the 
largest Knorrman settlements are accurately marked. 

While physically surveying the island would not be 
impossible, the Charonti tend to ignore Knorrman ex 
pansion in favor of locating and securing ruins they find 
mentioned on unearthed ancient maps and records. 
They currently rely on estimation from occasional sur 
vey flights over central Jakandor and population models 
to postulate the extent of Knorrman growth. 

An accurate portrayal of the details of the eastern 
side of the island is found in Island of War. A complete 
map will be published in JAKANDOR; Land of Legend. 
The island makes a good campaign environment, be 
cause an undiscovered dungeon or ruin can be 
dropped almost anywhere without having to figure 
out how it got there or why it hasn't already been 
looted. The Charonti are not even sure where all their 
former cities lie, and the Knorr have only been wan 
dering around for 150 years. 

Hahdok Sncountsrs 

Tables for random encounters are provided at the end of 
this section. Feel free to modify them or create your 
own. Keep in mind, however, that there are no known 
sentient creatures on Jakandor other than the Charonti, 
the Knorr, a handful of undead, and a number of lycan- 
thropes. All other monsters should be selected from 
creatures of animal or lesser intelligence, or those that 
have no social structure or ability to communicate. No 
ores, hobgoblins, or kobolds live on this island to stir up 
trouble. The island is so remote from other land masses 
even flying creatures cannot reach it. 

A single exception to this rule is worth mention 
ing. The elder Charonti did bring small communities 
of other races to live within their cities in order to 
both learn about their primitive civilization as well as 
to transmit the high culture of the Charonti to the 
simple races. It is conceivable that deep within an 


cient ruins a pocket of descendants of primitive elves, 
dwarves, or halflings may still linger. Likewise, it is not 
altogether impossible that undead forms of these 
races might be encountered deep underground. The 
existence of these creatures could explain why tem 
ples and chapels other than those dedicated to 
Thanhotep are occasionally found within the ruins, 
for while simple religions of all primitive races were of 
interest, no self-respecting Charonti of that time 
would actually worship any god less than Thanhotep. 

A few creatures deserve special mention. Horses 
are seldom found on Jakandor. They are normally lo 
cated in a very rare space on the encounter tables. The 
grassland table is an exception: "HorseAJndead" is in 
a very rare slot, and "Undead (Horse)" in a rare slot. 
The creature mentioned before a slash indicates en 
counters in the wilderness, while those after the slash 
are encountered in ruins or near Charonti communi 
ties. When the horse appears in parentheses this re 
sult is used when the encounter takes place on the 
Hobra Plateau where horses are more common. The 
Charonti have not developed horsemanship. They 
have no need to look to such wild and unpredictable 
animals as either a source of labor, transportation, or 
food. A Charonti character using a horse as a mount 
would seem like a crazy and dangerous showoff to 
most people. 

The Knorr may be encountered as farmers, fish 
ers, hunters, ranchers, or as raiding parties, across the 
island as well as in the ruins, as they seek to plunder 
treasure. Knorr are very rare on the western half of 
Jakandor and rare among the ruins of Jakandor. Knorr 
should only be encountered in a ruined site if it is log 
ically possible for them to have gained entrance to the 
place. In the eastern woodlands, where they live, they 
are fairly common. Some entries on the encounter 
charts are given as "Knorr/Outcast." On the western 
side of the island these should be interpreted as 
Charonti outcasts and on the eastern side as Knorr 
warriors. 

The entry "Charonti scholars" refers to a group of 
Charonti who are exploring on behalf of the Crown. 

Undead creatures are more common in the west 
ern badlands than in the eastern forests, where the 
Knorr have destroyed many. Undead encounters are 
usually not with Charonath but rather with normal un 
dead. The single exception is the entry "Serathi." This 
represents an encounter with Charonath zombies. 

TVue lycanthropes came to Jakandor hidden 
among the Knorr. Since then they have retreated to 
the wilds near the limits of Knorr civilization. Some 
have settled in the forests near Lake Orillia. When a 
lycanthrope encounter is rolled, use the special "Ly- 
canthrope" table to determine the specific type of 
creature (rerolling illogical results such as a seawolf in 
the forest). 

On the tables found on the inside front cover of 
the JAKANDOR Players Guide, a number in parentheses 
after an entry indicates the page in the MONSTROUS 
Manual^" book where details can be found. 


Tki KNOM • IS 



or higher level 
when playing in a 
Charonti campaign. The 
players should develop a 
history for their character 
to describe previous adven 
tures at lower levels. 

If an encounter is going to prove 
a real challenge for the heroes, the DM 
should provide the players with warnings 
or foreshadowing of the danger that lies ahead so that 
the heroes may be prepared. 

Another way to reduce the danger is to create en 
counters that are nothing more than watching a ti 
tanic battle or something that is all sight and sound 
and implied danger rather than threatening actual 
damage to the heroes. 

If, despite a DM's best efforts to protect low-level 
heroes, the challenges still prove too overwhelming, 
the DM may be lenient and use one of these plot de 
vices. The hero does not die, he is only knocked un 
conscious for a time. Or, the hero is scarred or lamed 
and must suffer a penalty (-2 to -4) to actions till he 
can return to a civil center to heal more completely. 
Or, the hero may be placed in a peril, such as hanging 


DK HOTES 


Id • Ckapter Two 


Keeping Heroes Alive 

Because this adventure is intended for low-level char 
acters, the DM should plan carefully how to keep 1st- 
level characters alive. This issue is important in a 
Charonti campaign since most of the heroes are wiz 
ards with low numbers of spells and similarly low hit- 
point totals. 

Here are some ideas to help novice-level heroes 
survive when bad luck or planning goes against them. 

If the heroes are low level, the DM should consider 
attaching one or two higher-level non-player charac 
ter wizards to the expedition. These high-level wiz 
ards will prefer to let the novices try their hand at 
solving problems, directing the Charonath servitors, 
and taking some of the risks. But if things prove 
deadly, the DM can have the wizards rescue the he 
roes at the last minute. 

Another option is to attach several serathi, war 
rior zombies, to defend the heroes. If the challenges 
should prove too overwhelming, the heroes can al 
ways retreat. As a matter of fact, during their initial 
forays, low-level hero characters should not wander 
far from a portal so that they may easily flee to safety. 

A third option is to begin player characters at 2nd 


This adventure introduces players to Charonti 
society. It emphasizes roleplaying, investigation, 
and use of wits rather than simply destroying all ob 
Stacies with magic. 

To run a Charonti campaign, the DM will need to 
have these references; this product, JAKANDOR; Isle of 
Destiny, the AD&D Player's Handbook, Ae Dungeon Mas 
TER* Guide, and the Complete Wizard's Handbook. In ad 
dition, copies of the Tome of Magic and fAKANDOR; 
Island of War may prove useful but are not vital. 














a cliff, 


and left to 


be rescued by the 


ing him into one of the Charonath. 


GRADVATIOH CXKRCiSf • il 


Act One begins four years later, when the heroes 
have attained 3rd level. It is their Graduation Day, and 
they are participating in their graduation ceremony. 
During the final lecture, the history of their noble race 
is recapped and their mission in life is made clear. Af 
terwards, the heroes step out onto the streets of their 
city and witness Charonti daily life. They compare 
notes about their future assignments and agree to 
gather again at the end of the day for one final party. 
For the remainder of the day the heroes are free to 
outfit themselves and explore their city and life, but 
their paths cross that of their nemesis, A'wa-qadek- 
an older student from the College of Invocation-and 
his fellow toughs. He has never liked them and de 
cides this is his last chance to cause them some grief, 
so a prank turns nasty, causing some public distur 
bance. The town watch collects the brawlers and they 
face Charonti justice. They are assigned to work to 
gether until they can learn to get along. Their task is 
to accompany an innocuous mission. To their sur- 


luckS4"j"^ 


more mon- 
sters, or more 
- - opportunities 

for roleplaying. Mold this adven 
ture to suit the needs of the cam- 
paign and the likes and dislikes of 
the players. 

Be sure to read through the entire 
adventure before running it. A loosely 
structured scenario like this requires 
the DM to make some decisions be 
forehand. 


NM' Synopsis 

r The adventure begins with a Prelude set 

four years in the past. The Prelude deals with 
the heroes as Ist-level apprentices who have 
m gone exploring the wilds on a lark. They are 
w stranded and experience a day of terror. Lost and 
f wandering, they find the remains of a menagerie of 
the Ancients and release two survivors (gibberlings). 
Then, a panther hunts the heroes and their leader is 
slain. It is only through the aid of an outcast wizard 
that they survive. Their youthful explorations lead 
them to discover a ruined building, but, to their last 
ing regret, they break the seal on the door and release 
a terrible blackness from beyond. Their friend, the 
outcast, holds back the dark until they can flee home 
through a makeshift gate. The episode ends with the 
rending of their slain friend Isa-sur's body, transform- 


Getting Started 

This adventure is "generic" and can begin in any civil 
center of the DM's choice. No particular hero class or 
kits are required. This was designed to allow the DM 
to personalize the adventure to fit his campaign. The 
DM should feel free to modify this adventure in any 
way he sees fit: add more encounters, more nonplayer 


other heroes. Finally, a 
hero may be separated from 
the other heroes and must be 
found. 

In the product ^AKANDOR: Island of 
War, heroes may be part of a "clan 
tree," which allows a single player to 
play with and advance more than one char 
acter in a single campaign. This device could also be 
used in a Charonti campaign. Thus, a player may con 
trol several heroes in case one dies. '\^ile making all 
a player's heroes related to one another isn't neces 
sary, as the family doesn't play the same role in 
Charonti culture that it does in Knorr society, all of a 
player's heroes could have some link to one another, 
such as is often the case with guilds. 




















prise, they find that one of the Charonath attached to 
the mission is the body of their old friend. 

In Act TWo, something goes wrong during their trip, 
and the teleportal malfunctions, depositing them in 
the wilds. Their exploration of the wilds reveals that 
they have returned to the locale of their ill-fated lark 
as apprentices. Things have changed. The land is 
dead, and the outcast inhabitants of this land face a 
desperate struggle for survival against a horde of gib- 
berlings. Recently, some dark evil has invaded the 
land, too. The panther they slayed has returned and 
panics the gibberling horde, herding them and every 
creature in their path toward the dangers of the ruins! 
In the ruins lies the heroes' only chance of getting 
home: the dismantled pieces of the gate they used to 
flee before and perhaps a vital key to the Charonti 
past. 

Setup 

Before the adventure begins, the players will need to 
create heroes using the rules provided in this prod 
uct's Players Handbook. These characters should be of 
the same caste and should be given interesting back 
grounds. 

This adventure is presented in several parts to 
allow more variety. To begin, there is a section on the 
Supporting Cast, characters who make the story come 
to life. Next is a list of Supplies to help low-level he 
roes. 

The adventure is presented in four parts. Random 
Events and Wandering Creatures present elements 
for the DM to use to make the exploration interesting. 
Random Events and Wandering Creatures may either 
be chosen randomly (roll IdlO) or the DM may choose. 
The DM may add or ignore random events and wan 
dering beasts at their own pace or they may roll ld4 
each hour of game time (1 = event, 2 = beast, 3 or 4 = 
nothing). 

Random events add mystery and color to an ad 
venture. The DM should vary their description and 
play slightly each time one is encountered. 

Wandering beasts are intended to add tension, but 
not to subtract from the story. The DM should use dif 
ferent tactics each time they are encountered. They 
will flee if they lose 50% of their hit points, capture a 
victim, or some other pre-set condition is met. 

The main adventure is presented as Story Events 
and Settings. Story Events are designed to advance 
the story and occur in sequence, no matter where the 
heroes are. Settings present the challenges and obsta 
cles of a specific location that may be explored and 
used again for future adventures. Mixing elements 
permits the DM to create a unique story to challenge 
and entertain his players. 

Finally, all Creature Statistics are presented on a 
master list on page 31. Him there for game statistics 
for any beasts encountered. Alter these to fit special 
notes. 


SvppoRTiMo Cast 

Isa-sur, (3rd-lvl artificer): AC 8; MV 12; hp 15; THACO 20; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld4+l; AL NG; S 11, D 16, C15,116, W 9, Ch 13. 
Spells: 2/1-1st: magic missile, sleep; 2nd: ambulate object. 
Personality: Isa has a desire to experience adventure that 
often gets in the way of his common sense, (see 
Charonath stats for dead Isa.) 

Skills: direction sense, jumping, spellcraft. 

Tools; Weapons-blowgun (pepper), dagger, rod. 
Ardu-talith, outcast wizard (5th-lvl Dilettante): AC 8; MV 
12; hp 20; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA spells; SD bracers 
+2; 

AL NG; S 10, D 11, C 15,114, W 10, Ch 9. 

Spells: 4/2/1-1st: burning hands, chill touch, light, protect; 
evil; 2nd: blur, u;eb; 3rd: slow. 

Personality; distracted, distrustful, dishonest. 

Skills; fire-building, rope use, set snares (Dex -1) 
A'wa-qadek (4th-lvl galvanist): AC 8; MV 12; hp 20; THACO 
19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 staff; SA spells; SD ring +2; AL N; S 14, 
Dll, C 16,115, W 9, Ch 13. 

Spells: 3/2-Ist: magic missile, shocking grasp, unseen ser 
vant; 2nd: /laming sphere, stinking cloud. 

Personality; Braggart, cruel, taunting, snob, boor. 

Skills; appraising, ancient Charonti, spellcraft 
Il'ian, Ihn'a-daal, & Onna'ja (bullies) (3rd Ivl): AC 8; MV 
12; hp 9; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; ML average (9); AL N; 
Average Abilities: S 12, D 15, C 11,113, W 8, Ch 10. 

Spells: 2/1 Mage-1st color spray, phantasmal force; 2nd: 
blur. 

Priest-1st cure wounds, entangle; 2nd: dust devil. 

Thief-PP 45, OL 50, F/RT 25, MS 30, HS 15, CW 80. 
Personality; Bullies, pranksters, liars, snide. 

Skills: Weapons-dagger, club, whip, shortsword. 
Eka-nefsur'gox, outcast leader (4th-lvl dilettante): AC 9; 
MV 12; hp 12; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld4+l; ML average (9); 
AL NG; Abilities: S 8, D 15, C 13,115, W13, Ch 9. 

Spells. 3/2-Ist enlarge, magic missile, shocking grasp; 2nd: 
Mel/'s acid arrow, shatter. 

Personality; Eka is wise and not only a leader, but a 
teacher and father to his people. 

Skills; direction sense, jumping, spellcraft. 

Tools; Weapons-dagger, sling, staff. 

Ha'lil-i'pil, outcast girl (3rd-lvl bandit): AC 8; MV 12; hp 12; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; ML unsteady (7); AL N; Abili 
ties: S 10, D 16, C 13,1 8, W 12, Ch 16. 

Thief-PP 35, OL 20, F/RT 25, MS 30, HS 35, DN 15, CW 80. 
Personality; Caring, cautious, suspicious, aggressive. 

Skills; animal lore, direction sense, running, survival. Ex 
pert at ambushing and finding way in wilds (50%). 

Tools; Weapons-club, dagger, short sword, sling. 

Jalon Dred Nisor Kenn Han, Knorr Knorr (4th-lvl senti- 
nal): AC 7; MV 15; hp 25 (9); THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg ld8; AL 
LN; S 15, D 13, C 15,1 9, W 14, Ch 9. 

Personality: Lives by code. Fears magic. Postures, but cun 
ning. 

Skills; Skilled with dagger, hand axe, longsword, spear, 
blind-fighting, fire-building, hunting. Never surprised! 
Guardian (5th-lvl fighter); AC 6; MV 9; hp 35; THACO 16; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2d4; AL LG; S 15, D 12, C 15,1 9, W 11, Ch 10. 
Personality; Fierce devotion to Crown and defense. 

Skills; endurance, local history, reading/writing. 

Tools; Skilled with sword, club, dagger, spetum, shortbow. 


18 • Ckaptir Two 


Supplies 

Isa'sur the artificer brought a pack filled with sup 
plies. He "borrowed" these items from his master's 
repair shop and many have flaws. Each time one of 
the items listed in italics is used, there is a 1-in-lO 
chance the item will either break or fail. 

Many of the items listed have been created for this 
adventure to provide the DM with examples of the 
magical technology of the Charonti. Items listed with 
an asterisk (*) are detailed in this product's Players 
Book: Equipment. 

Pack of Holding: functions like a small bag of holding. 

Blankets: two warm, flaxen woven blankets. 

Food: a small pouch attached to a larger water 
skin. Small pellets of journey loaf, when soaked in 
the skin in a quart of water, swell to biscuits in one 
hour. Journey loaf is equal to a half-day ration (20 pel 
lets). 

Mallet & chisel; the mallet is made of wood, the 
chisels are bronze and three of the four have hairline 
fractures. 

Prybar: adds +2 to Strength check when opening 
item. 

Shelter: This small leather packet expands to the 
size of a small tent, big enough for four people to 
sleep in. 

Direction Sensor; this arrow pendant will spin and 
point in the direction of the nearest Charonti settle 
ment. 

Ring of displacement; creates a light distortion field 
that makes wearer appear 3' away from true location; 
bestows a bonus of 2 to AC and saving throws. 

Hazardstone; senses evil and grows warmer as it 
approaches: within 100 yards it begins to cause heat 
damage (d2 at 50-i- yds, d4 at 20+ yds, d6 at 20 yds or 
less). 

Eternal flame;' Fire-starter magical item. 

Levitating belt: can levitate 200 pounds 10' in the air. 

Light spindle: when the user concentrates and 
makes a successful Int check, this item begins to spin 
and rises to hover in the air above the user. As it 
spins, it casts a light with a 60' radius. If the user is 
injured or becomes distracted, the stone falls to the 
ground inactive. 

Magic rope: this rope cannot be cut, but it will break 
under a combined strength of 20 or 501+ pounds of 
weight. Its strands are sticky and reduce the chance 
of falling by +2 (+10%), but a climber who loses his 
footing can still smash into the wall or become tan 
gled and hung upside down. 

Potions; (taste varies; duration = ld4 +4 turns) 

Elixir of heroism; bestows 1 level and hit points 
from 1 Hit Die and improves AC by -1 for the duration 
of the potion to any class. Does not bestow additional 
spells (3 quaffs). 

Elixir of strength: treat as a strength spell at 5th 
level. 

Potion of extra-healing: heals d8+l hp/quaff (3 
quaffs). 

Scroll 1: resist cold (priest). 

Scroll 2: protection from evil, lO'R, sloiu (wnzard). 

Scroll 3: document (new illusion spell, see pg 91). 

Skeletal chime: treat as a knock spell; use once an 
hour. 

Spiderwalk boots; treat as spider climb spell, but can 
not climb upside down; user will fall out of boots! 

Wellskin;* magical refilling waterskin; 1 gallon/day. 


PRELUDE: 

Sorcerer 

Apprentices 

This prelude is designed for low-level heroes. Here are 
many examples of how to create challenges with low 
levels of danger using threats, hazardous terrain, 
dilemmas, traps, and near misses. 

Random Events 

(1) Bog Pit. The ground appears solid, but it's really a 
thin layer of debris or dried crust hiding a deadly bog. 
Dead branches sticking up out of the muck or the lack 
of a trail across this space may alert the wary to dan 
ger. (Quicksand; Victims sink at a rate of 2' per round. 
A Str or Dex check, at half score, is needed to free vic 
tim. Submerged victim can hold breath for (Con x 1/6) 
rds, then loses 3 Con per round.) 

(2) Collapse. The ground or a slope nearby collapses 
and the heroes must save vs. Petrify or tumble down a 
slope or be buried beneath debris if they fail to move 
out of danger swiftly (Dmg 1/tum). 

(3) Fungus. There is a growth of odd fungus here 
(there is a 75% chance the fungus is edible and a 25% 
chance it is puffballs, the spores of which cause color 
ful hallucinations for 2d4 turns-save vs. Poison). 

(4) Sound. A strange sound is heard that seems mys 
terious, worrisome, or dangerous (a scream, the sound 
of running, pounding, flapping, grinding of stone, bird 
songs, or music). 

(5) Water? Is this pool of water drinkable or is it pol 
luted and causes sickness, nausea, infection or some 
other effect? 

(6) Windstorm. This is a windstorm that blows grit 
around. It may be a dust devil (a furious funnel of wind 
that sends things flying), a windstorm blowing a hail of 
debris (Dmg ld4), or a zephyr wafting an odor their 
way (flowers, wind seed, tar, decay, smoke, or other). 

Wandering Beasts (Number Appearing listed in 
parentheses) 

(1) Carrion crawler (1): Ambushes prey from haven. 
Will attempt to eat fallen prey in quiet or will drag 
paralyzed victim into deep tunnel to leave in egg 
chamber with worms (AC 7, hp 8, THACO 20, Dmg 1 
+paralysis for ld6 turns). There may be another victim 
present in lair, and there may be a minor treasure or 
royal jelly (elixir of health). 

(2) Giant beetles (1): Rhino or stag beetles are herbiv 
orous and only threaten harm if molested or cor 
nered, making mock charges. 

(3) Giant centipedes (3): These beasts possess a poi 
son that causes sleep or delirium exaggerating danger 
(2d4 rds). 

(4) Lizards (1): Common or giant lizards bask in the 
sun camouflaged; they may try to steal food and are 
full of bluff and bluster. 


ORADVATION BXiRCIf I • 19 




(5) Outcasts (1-4): This encounter may just reveal 
signs of outcasts passing (a campfire, footprints) or 
carcasses. If living outcasts are met, they are suspi 
cious but may offer to guide the heroes. 

(6) Undead Things (1-3): These animated body parts 
may either hunt a solitary hero or startle someone 
with their bizarreness. 

Story 

The Heroes' Thle: Isa-sur said this would be fun, a lark 
for his fellow apprentices. But when the warm afterglow of 
stepping through one of the teleportal gates died, a nagging 
apprehension grew. 

The older Isa-sur convinced the heroes to try an ad 
venture on their own, exploring a remote section of 
the ruins. He planned for everything, borrowing sup 
plies from master Mira-toth, and even bringing along 
a small home gate made of two 6' spears and a cross 
bar of enchanted auri bones. The gate is at their backs 
when they arrive. 

Isa-sur took precautions and brought a direction sen 
sor that always points in the direction of their home, 
or so he thinks. It really points toward concentrations of 
strong magic and will point toward the Obelisk. 

SI Arrival: Their arrival is uneventful, but the heroes 
will feel conspiratorial, having snuck out of school for 
the day. Use the small map marked Sorcerous Appren 
tices for exploration; "X" marks the spot where they ar 
rive. 

The heroes may explore at their leisure. The im 
portant thing is that they discover some of these land 
marks. Check for random events and wandering 
beasts periodically. 

A. Badlands: This is a land of dried mud and striated 
stone, with the occasional greenery of scrub plants. 

There are deep canyons and precarious cliffs. The 
cliffs are fragile and collapse easily causing a penalty 
of -2 (-10%) to climbing rolls. Beware flash floods. 
Ravens line the ridges. 

B. The Cave: There is darkness between these rocks. 

This cave may either be home to the outcast wizard, 
Ardu-talith, or to the marauding panther. There may 
be either bones and fur here or there may be a blanket, 
some salted meat and biscuits, plus a single scroll may 
be found. The scroll has a spell of bind and wizard lock. 

C. The Fork: This statuary of the Ancients sports two cres 
cents joined by a disk and is 30' tall. 

A sense of unease fills those who approach this 
shape. There are Knorr bodies stretched on the stony 
base for the birds to pick clean. They will not re 
animate. 

D. The Gateway: This teleportal is framed by two bone 
spears and a bony crossbar. 

Initially the gateway will be imbedded on the Hill 
where the heroes arrived. But, when they return to 
find it, it wiU be gone. Ardu dragged it to the court of 
the ruins. 

E. The Hill: From here the land can be viewed. 

This grassy knoll gives way to barren earth. A lone tree 


offers shade. The major features visible from here are 
the Fork, the Spring and Stream, and the Menagerie. 

F. The Marsh: There is a scent of decay oozing from these 
stagnant, weed choked waters. 

There are fish, lizards, toads, and a giant constrictor 
snake living within these sour waters. Clouds of bugs 
hover above the drowned grass, and there are two 
dugouts here. 

G. The Menagerie: Here are cages of stone and rusted 
iron grates. Huddled masses litter the floors. 

The cages contain the bones of the former occu 
pants. 'Two cages are piled high with bones, some of 
which are gnawed. In each of these cages is a shabby 
humanoid, its fur falling out in patches, its frame 
withered. The creatures will whine to be set free. If 
the heroes free one, it will lick their hands and im 
plore that its companion be freed. Once freed, they 
will limp off into the wilds. These creatures are gib- 
berlings. 

H. The Obelisk: Here is a spire of rock, carved with an 
cient glyphs and cartouches. 

A read magic combined with read ancient Charonti will 
decipher the glyphs as written spells. Any spell listed 
here can be memorized if the wizard makes his or her 
Chance to Know roll. These are elder spells: charm per 
son, sleep, detect invisibility, and wizard lock. 

I. The Path: This flagstone path meanders through the 
canyons. It is cleaned as if cared for. 

J. The Pool: This pleasant pool is surrounded by a copse of 
trees. Water lilies adorn its glassy waters. 

Common toads and two alligators (use giant lizard 
stats) live in these waters. There are trout and the 
water is drinkable. 

K. The Ruins: A stony flagstone courtyard fronts this 
building buried beneath the rubble of its own upper floors. 
A dark passage leads to a great brass door. 

In the court stands the heroes' gateway. The brass 
door is sealed with a large silver medallion nearly a 
foot in diameter. The disk bears the image of a dark 
sun. 

Beyond these doors lies the unnatural terror of the 
Dark Beast. Its form is an impenetrable darkness that 
oozes like a shadow. It creates an area of silence, 30' R. 

L. The Spring: Crystal clear water bubbles up from these 
rocks and cascades down the stream. 

This water is drinkable. The first time the heroes ex 
plore this site, Isa-sur will lose one of his items in the 
depths of the pool when he bends to drink. Isa-sur 
will be upset about its loss. The item is not retrievable. 
The water is cold. 

M. The Stream: This stream flows down the center of a 
canyon, quickly becoming a muddy rill. 

The stones in the stream are slippery (Dex check). Oc 
casionally, the stream widens and deepens and be 
comes a pool 20'-50' deep. There are trout and 
crayfish in these waters. The water is drinkable. 

N. The Ttees: These flowering thorny trees bear hard pur 
ple fruit. Bees buzz about the blossoms. 

The heroes must make a Con check at +2; failure re 
sults in sneezing and watering eyes from allergies. 


ftO • CHAPTIS TVlfO 


The plums are not ripe. Beneath these trees are sev 
eral open, empty graves. 

O. The Wall: Here toiuers a mighty u;all nearly 50' tall, ta 
pering to a razor sharp point. 

The stones are loose and the wall is unscaleable. 
There is a -6 (-30%) penalty to climbing attempts. It is 
30' wide. 

52 On the Prowl: The snarling shriek of a great cat splits 
the air and a flurry of birds takes wing! 

Nearby, a panther has pounced on prey, a rabbit, and 
carries it to a rocky ledge in the heroes' path. Isa-sur 
will be nervous but will try to act calm. In a few min 
utes, the heroes should make Int checks, and the first 
one to succeed will sight the black cat eating. Isa-sur 
will freeze and will try to call a retreat. The cat will 
evade any attacks, snarl its displeasure and leave with 
its kill. Isa will swear the creature is unnatural, and 
that it is somehow hunting them. 

This panther is an important part of the terror of 
this adventure, so don't let it be killed. From this point 
on use the panther to create unease for the players. 
The heroes might hear the cat's snarl, they might en 
counter the beast's kill, feel they are being watched, 
hear rustling in the brush, or catch a black flurry out 
of the comer of their eye. 

53 Unseen Dangers: This land is desolate and uninviting. 
It is difficult to imagine it was once a lush oasis, homeland 
of the ancient Charonti empire. 

This event should follow the heroes' next creature en 
counter or when they reach the Menagerie. As they 
watch the progress of a creature they will be startled 
when suddenly the ground erupts and envelopes the 
creature. It is a trapper. The heroes may attempt to 
rescue outcasts or watch another creature be con 
sumed. This should create some paranoia. If outcasts 
are rescued, the DM may use these as cannon fodder 
during future encounters, sparing the heroes, but 
showing them how dangerous the wilds can be. 

54 The Caged! During the heroes' exploration, their 
path should pass the Menagerie, or an outcast may 
lead them there. The heroes should be enticed to free 
the gibberlings. 

55 Deadly Encounter: This adventure has been interest 
ing, but the ruins are no place to explore unprepared. It will 
be good to get sa/ely home. 

Finally, Isa-sur will have had enough and will encour 
age the heroes to head back to the gate. His appre 
hension has grown with the panther stalking Aem. 
After a debate, the heroes set off. The way is tiring, 
but eventually they come upon a melon patch with a 
wild pecarry (a dwarf pig) eating. The pig watches 
their approach placidly, then, suddenly startled, it 
flees. The melons are ripe. Isa-sur breaks one open 
and tries it. His spirits pick up. Give the heroes a 
chance to rest. 

As the heroes leave, without a sound the panther 
pounces from hiding on Isa-sur, killing him instantly. 
It tries to drag Isa's body off. Any damage the party in 


flicts on the panther will scar one eye. Then the pan 
ther should escape, leaving its kill. The heroes should 
feel an obligation to take Isa's body back with them. It 
is this corpse which will also keep the panther track 
ing them till the adventure's end. 

56 Lost Our Way! If the heroes return to the point of 
their arrival, they will discover that their gateway is 
missing! Careful searching will uncover moccasin 
footprints, unlike their sandal prints. Someone was 
here and left to the east. 

57 Outcast Even if the heroes don't to return to then- 
point of arrival, the story can proceed with this event. 
They find something on their path: a moccasin foot 
print in the mud, a brightly colored swatch of cloth 
caught on a branch, a cold campfire, and so on. Short 
ly thereafter there is the sound of footsteps, coughing, 
whistling, or the crackle of a fire. This will lead to 
Ardu-talith, the outcast dilettante wizard. 

Ardu will be suspicious of strangers, especially 
since he stole their gateway. He was once a promis 
ing wizard, but one of his researches went awry, 
killing his fellow mages and blinding him in one eye. 
That eye is scarred and glassy gray. He will prove dis 
trustful, distracted, and dishonest. And while he is 
not a coward, he would prefer to create a delaying 
tactic and escape when he can, so he can return 
when his magic is ready. Ardu is not the panther, but 
the heroes may think otherwise. Build tension, but 
don't let them slay him. As he would be quick to 
point out, he's their only chance, since he has more 
powerful magic! 

Ardu seeks to uncover a great find of magic and 
use it to convince the Crown to grant him a pardon 
and citizenship. He believes the ruins to the northeast 
hold such a treasure, but he also fears that there may 
be grave danger and seeks allies. He will bargain with 
the heroes that he will take them to their gateway if 
they agree to help him explore a bit of ruin. One way 
or another, their path should lead to the ruins. 

Ardu knows of the land and of the great panther 
that prowls it. He will suggest that there is something 
unnatural about it. He also knows the legend of a 
great people who lived here during what was said to 
be an age of dreams, creators of great dream magic. It 
is their stronghold he seeks. 

SB To the Ruins: The trip to the ruins should be round 
about to lead the heroes past some of the sites they 
have not encountered yet. The DM may want to play 
up the suspense and intrigue regarding the panther, 
separating Ardu from the party for a short time and 
having the panther leap across the heroes' path. Ardu 
then returns from the opposite direction. 

S9 Opening the Gate: At the ruins, Ardu is lost in won 
der, distracted with anticipation of finally opening the 
door to the ruins. The controversy regarding Ardu and 
the panther should be reaching a dramatic point. He 
will not be pa 3 dng attention when the panther sud 
denly leaps down from atop a ruined wall and comers 


Gradvatiom Cxsaciss • SI 



Ardu. The panther attacks until slain. If it injures Ardu, 
it will not slay the mage, just put him on the brink of 
death. The panther's body should fall near Ardu. 

When Ae beast is dispatched, Ardu will insist the 
seal be freed and the door opened, even if it's his 
dying wish. The seal must be broken, melted or re 
moved. When the seal is removed, it takes a combined 
Strength of 25 to pry the door open. Within is nothing 
but darkness! 

Beyond the door is a veil of darkness, no shapes distin 
guishable in its/olds. The silence/rom the tomb seems to in 
vade the ivilds, and that advancing awesome stillness 
causes all to step back. 

Then the Dark starts to advance. It is an opaque, im 
penetrable shadow. Those touched by it feel a cold 
chill and 1 point of Strength is drained. The cries of 
the heroes echo hollow and all must make a Charisma 
check or be filled with fear (-1 to all actions). When 
the Dark touches Ardu he screams to the heroes to 
"get back, get away through the gate while you still 
can!" He will use one last spell to seal the gate. He will 
cast a web spell over the hall. 

Bright light will drive the Dark back, but it will take 
the bodies of Ardu and the panther with it. If the he 
roes drive the beast back they can flee home. The 
gateway will not work should ^ey try to return here 
again to the ruins. 

SIO The Rending: The heroes stand in mute witness as 
the priest intones the ancient words and the body of their 
former comrade twitches ... and then rises. 

This prelude concludes with the heroes wimessing the 
body of their fallen friend, Isa-sur, reanimated and made 
one of the Crown's Charonath. They are lectured by their 
mentors and will not soon forget this adventure! 

ACT ONS: 

Graduation 

Day 

Random Events 

(1) Accident. An accident (run-away vehicle/beast, 
falling item, falling victim, et al.) is set in motion for the 
heroes to prevent or to help any victims afterwards. 
Here is a chance to witness chirurgeons at work. 

(2) Funeral/Rending. The heroes' path crosses a 
funeral procession to a necromancer's home or the 
rending of a newly deceased Charonti. The participants 
are not grim, but filled with interest and anticipation. 

(3) Magestorm. The weather takes a surprising, un 
common turn influenced by magic. (An electrical 
storm could rage, or the city could be calm, but all 
about is a torrential downpour or high winds, or bore 
alis may dance down the street.) 

(4) Misfire or Miss Fyre. Some spell seems to have gone 
out of control and is causing trouble. The resulting 


chaos may be illusory or real, or not the effect of a spell, 
but rather an actual danger, such as a fire. (Dmg 1/rd) 

(5) Petty Crime. Some crime is committed near the 
heroes (pickpocket, tagger, vandals, theft, mugging, or 
practical joke). They may get drawn into the event to 
help prevent it, apprehend the culprits, be accused of 
the crime, or interviewed as witnesses. 

(6) Storyteller. Someone is encountered who shares a 
tale, if properly motivated (professional storyteller, old 
person, gossip, or shop owner). Here's a chance to 
retell some Charonti history, a tale of a recent en 
counter with the barbaric Knorr, or a tale to set up an 
adventure. 

Wandering Creatures (Number Appearing listed in 
parentheses) 

(1) Bullies (PCs +1): These guys will taunt the heroes 
or play pranks to annoy them, claiming credit for the 
heroes' deeds and blaming them for the bullies' mis 
deeds. 

(2) Familiar pest (1): This familiar (raven, toad, quasit, 
or homunculus) will annoy heroes, repeating what 
they say, begging for a handout, or harassing heroes to 
leave. 

(3) Justice (3): These jurists will be encountered met 
ing out justice, debating the law, or judging a dispute. 

(4) Opposing Caste (1-4): Here is a chance to interact 
with another caste. Guildsmen will debate about the 
value of money; scholars will support philosophy. 

(5) Opposing School (2-3): Wizards from a school in 
opposition to one of the heroes will taunt the hero. 

(6) Public Works (12 +1): This skeleton crew is en 
gaged in some public project (repairing roads, paint 
ing, cleaning, et al) and will ignore people, though 
their guardian will not. 

Story 

The main adventure begins/our years after the Prelude. The 
heroes ivill have advanced to 3rd level. Adjust their hit 
points and spell lists to match their higher level before pro 
ceeding with the adventure. 

Sll Graduation Ceremony: Four years have passed 
since that ill-fated adventure. Isa-sur's humor and cunning 
will be missed, but life goes on. After seven long years as 
apprentices, it is Graduation Day! 

Scholar caste heroes have completed their studies at 
the Addkainen and are ready to enter service with their 
chosen College. Guild caste heroes have completed 
their time as guild apprentices and are ready to become 
full-fledged journeymen. The ceremony is filled with 
pomp and serious lectures. The DM should use this as 
an opportunity to share the most recent history with 
the players. Concentrate on the horrors of the plague 
and the ascension of the current Queen Nefti, and 
skimp on the other details. This gives them something 
further to discover during the campaign. The culmina 
tion of the ceremony is the pledging of loyalty to Crown 
and Guild or College. Make it a mystical moment for the 
players, complete with a magical effect to witness. 


ftS • Ckaptir Two 



After the ceremony, as the heroes leave, they 
should run into A'wa-qadek and his three bullies. 
They make disparaging remarks regarding the boring 
but safe lives the heroes can look forward to, and how 
he and his friends will show them what bravery is. 
They will be exploring the ruins and returning the old 
magic to the land. 

The heroes are then on their own to wander the 
city, until the party that night at the public dining hall. 
Use the map of the city chosen and the Random 
Events and Wandering Creatures to determine what 
they encounter. 

512 Bullies: If the heroes don't encounter the bullies 
and get into a fight with them during their wanderings, 
then just as they approach the dining hall, A'wa and his 
boys will play a prank on them. A game of float skin (a 
game of "keep-away" using a filled wineskin with a lev 
itate spell cast on it) seems to get out of hand as a small 
levitating barge loaded with garbage crosses in front of 
the heroes. The bullies run in front of the barge to re 
trieve the skin and the barge swerves, dumping garbage 
onto the heroes. This should result in a conflict, which 
won't stop until the Watch intervenes. 

513 Justice! The jurists do not look happy, though maybe 
it's the smell 0 /rotting garbage that causes them to wrinkle 
their noses. A'wa and his boys are acting contrite, the jerks! 
But the hardest part is the look of disappointment on your 
mentors' faces. 

The jurists will give both parties a chance to explain 
what happened. A'wa and his boys will paint a picture 
of jealousy, erupting into a petty fight. If the heroes 
can make A'wa or the boys act cocky or lose their cool, 
things will favor the heroes. But if the heroes lose 
their temper, they will suffer. 

After deliberation, the jurists declare: 

"Life is not always fair, nor does one side always win. 
For our society to continue to do honor to our past and 
survive the ravages of the beasts, we must learn to 
work together. You must learn to cooperate. Your 
penance shall be to work together in the service of the 
merchant Ban'armen-khan. It was his business you 
disrupted today, and he you shall repay. If, in our 
judgement, after one month you have not learned to 
co-exist, this court will bring its full power to bear to 
resolve this." 

The heroes are remanded into the custody of Ban. 
He will declare that their first task will be to journey 
with him to the pits and help bury their mess. If the 
bullies lost their temper, they will have to report to the 
leader of the heroes; if the heroes lost their temper, 
they will be made subservient to A'wa and his boys. 

514 Departure: The morning dawns with a boom; a 
thunderstorm rages. The galuanists would call it a great 
day! The rain that follows is a blessing. 

The heroes are greeted by their new master with A'wa 
and bully boys in tow. If one of the heroes is a 
guardian he is given command shards and is assigned 
command of three Charonath. If not, a supporting 
cast member who is a 3rd level guardian commands 


three Charonath for Merchant Ban. To their surprise, 
one of the Charonath is revealed to be the body of 
their old friend, Isa-sur, who died on that ill-fated trip. 

The trip to the Gateway Plaza is uneventful as they 
pass laden sedans, soaked, but waxed serathi, and lev 
itating barges. Ban and his barge go through first. Then, 
after a delay, the party steps forward through the gate, 
arms linked with each other and the Charonath. 

Just as the heroes enter the gate, a crack of thun 
der explodes and a bolt of lightning sizzles down. The 
heroes are blinded and the disorientation that follows 
is gut wrenching. Each player must make a Con check. 
Failure results in being stunned for 4 rounds; success 
results in dizziness and a headache. Sight will return 
slowly over the next hour. Ban and barge are not to be 
found. The heroes are on their own. 

ACT Two: 
Oradvation 
Exercise 

Scene One: History is a Great Circle 

S21 Arrival: All is darkness and moaning, even some 

retching. What has happened? 

The heroes arrive at the spot marked "X" on the Grad 
uation Exercise map. Before long they should suspect 
that lightning struck the gate and they were tele 
ported to an unknown site. It could have been worse; 
they might not have survived! 

When the heroes arrive there is bound to be disori 
entation and bickering with A'wa and friends as they 
try to sort out who is in charge. These bullies exist to 
cause conflict during the story, though not outright 
combat. When dangers threaten, let one of the bullies 
or one of the people they meet in their travels die first. 
Save A'wa till the end! 

A'wa will swagger and boast at the start, as will his 
friends, but as the adventure progresses he will become 
more fearful, easUy panicked, and quick to blame the 
heroes and bemoan his fate. He says, "If only I had been 
prepared, then I would show you what a real hero is!" 

The heroes do not know where they are and must 
explore. The important thing is for them to rediscover 
several of the altered landmarks from the Prelude. Check 
for random events and wandering beasts periodically. 

Random Events 

These events are variations on those from the Prelude. 

(1) Black tar. The water here has turned black and 
the ground about has turned to tar (treat as quick 
sand Bog Pit, pg 19). The water is toxic (save vs. Poi 
son, Dmg 5). 

(2) Dark mist: This mist gathers in the low ground 
and will follow the heroes, loitering around death or 
magic. Mist obscures dangers. 

(3) Dark ravens (7): A court of ravens gathers around 


O'RADVJknON EXIRCISI • ftS 



carrion, but these are unnaturals and attack intruders. 

(4) Electric storm: Arcane bolts of energy light the 
overcast sky or form into ball lightning to ricochet 
about (dmg ld8) or creep like/aerie/ire about the land. 

(5) Fungus: The fungi in this dark, moist crevice are 
huge, and some (75%) are edible. But there is a chance 
(25%) that there is a creature present: (50%) a shrieker 
that sounds an alarm drawing a wandering monster 
or (50%) there is a deadly fungus gardener. 

(6) Pitfalls: Dried crusts and debris disguise lO'-deep 
pits with mud (victim becomes stuck, Str 25 to free) or 
stakes (Dmg ld6) at their base. There is 25% chance 
that there will be drinkable water. 

Wandering Creatures (Number Appearing listed in 
parentheses) 

(1) Gibberlings (8): These creatures are panicked and 
will attack anything in their path, or they are scouts 
for the horde and if any escape, they will bring the 
horde in 3 turns. 

(2) Knorr victims (1-3): Here are the bodies of Knorr 
slain either by outcasts or animals. They cannot be 
raised using rending. 

(3) Megalo-centipede (1): This gargantuan creature 
blocks the way, and the heroes must turn away or 
fight it. 

(4) Outcasts (1-3): These frightened people are fleeing 
the gibberling horde and have tales of the unnaturals 
stalking the land. They will die in later battles. 

(5) Undead, ghouls (2): These ambushers prefer to 
steal carrion (the Charonath) but will settle for fresh 
meat. 

(6) Unnatural (1): These creatures have been con 
verted by the Dark into unnatural creatures with black 
pits for eyes and the special powers of an unnatural 
beast. Any creature may be converted, and it may first 
be encountered as a drained husk and later reani 
mated. Use the original creature's stats modified by 
the unnatural stats. 

Exploration (original terrain is listed in parentheses) 

A. Badlands: Like so much of the isle ofjakandor, the hills 
are barren and baked, the vegetation dead. Erosion cuts 
deep gullies and canyons in the land. 

The earthen cliffs are fragile and crumble; climbers 
face a penalty of -2 (-10%). Beware flash floods from 
sudden rain. The land is deathly still. 

B. The Brambles (trees): Here is a forest of thorns, briars, 
and brambles. A grim sight. 

A flock of ravens make these woods their home; their 
cawing makes a deafening cacophony. Moving through 
these briars requires periodic Dex checks or suffer 1 
point of damage. Within the shadows of the brambles 
grow many of the herbs so important to chirurgeons. 
There are also three crawling undead things hiding in 
the tangle. They will claw, trip, and kill trespassers. 

C. The Canyons (streambed): The base of this canyon is 
filled with dust and baked mud, the cliff walls white with 
lime. The heat is sweltering. 

These canyon walls are difficult to chmb and there is 


nowhere to hide from encounters. An event or en 
counter will occur shortly past every junction. 

D. The Cave: The darkness beneath the canted rocks offers 
safety and some shelter from the elements. 

The cave smells like death. Animals won't come near. 

E. The Courtyard (pool): This was once a mighty court 
yard, but now it is caked with a layer of silt and moss. The 
stones are slippery. 

This site was an ornamental pool. Now the water is 
only puddles in low places, watering holes for the local 
animals. Four Knorr hide by the trees on the far side of 
the courtyard. Here's a good spot to kill some wizards 
who probably created the terror that haunts this land. 

There are three special common toads here. They 
exude a contact toxin that requires a save or the victim 
suffers a delirium that he is invincible. Licking this 
toxic sweat doubles the effect of the next two spells 
cast. The heroes v/ill stumble upon one of these toads. 

F. The Field (marsh): The grasses grow pale green and 
taller than a man in this fertile field. 

This dried field is home to dozens of giant rats and a 
giant poisonous constrictor snake that hunts them. 
Paths are beaten through the grass as if something 
heavy was dragged along. Any fire spells cast here 
may cause a wildfire, which will surround the heroes. 
They suffer 1 point of damage per round they are 
trapped. The snake and rats will hide in their burrows 
till the fire dies out. 

G. The Hillocks (menagerie): This area is barren, save 
for a dozen small hillocks of rubble. 

Investigation will find bones buried in the earth. Metal 
grates lie smashed and rusting on the ground. Two 
sandlings make their lair in these wastes. There is a 
bronze shod quarterstaff and a long sword here. 

H. The Knoll (hill): This hill has been severely eroded. A 
dead tree leans wearily against the crest. 

From here much of the land can be seen, including the 
Moon, Canyon, Pit, and Hillocks. The edges of this es 
carpment are brittle (save vs. Petrify or fall 30', Dmg 
ld6). 

I. TTie Moon (fork): This appears to be a tumbled struc 
ture of the Ancients. Only a stony crescent stands, leaning 
precariously on a rocky dais. 

There has been a battle here. There are a dozen out 
cast bodies. Their heads have been taken and they 
cannot be reanimated. It looks like the work of Knorr. 

J. The Pillar (obelisk): This is a shattered monument of 
the Ancients, the pillar broken in half and buried in the un 
dergrowth. Strange sigils are scribed on it. 

A read magic combined with a read ancient Charonti 
will decipher these glyphs to be spells. But, due to the 
damage there is only a 25% chance that a spell will be 
decipherable and then it will likely be misinterpreted 
so that when it is cast it wiU actually cast as a spell ld4 
places above or below the spell on the Master Spell list. 

K. The Pit (spring): By a rocky outcropping, the earth sud 
denly/alls away into a barren sinkhole. 

This was once a spring. When a hero approaches, the 
ground will collapse beneath his feet, sliding him into 
a 20'-deep hole (Dmg 2). There are two giant cen- 


84 • Chapti n Two 


tipedes here. The hero may find the item dropped in 
the spring during the Prelude. 

L. The Rampart (wall); A towering rampart of earth and 
stone forms a barrier to the north. 

Once a mighty wall, time has worn it down and vines 
have overgrown it. It is dangerous to climb (-4/-20%). 
Common lizards dart through the vines. TWo giant 
lizards bask on the broken ridge or hunt their smaller 
brethren. 

M. The Ruin; Vines and undergrowth drape the Ancient 
ruins and carpet the tumbled courtyard. 

Despite the ravages of time, the heroes will recognize 
this as the site of their nightmare adventure. Their 
refuge, the gateway, is gone and the tall brass door is 
no longer sealed! The broken seal lies beside the door. 

N. The TYail (path); A narrow trail winds through the val 
ley, buried by years offloading. 

Story 

522 Wandering lost; Though the heroes don't know 
it, this is the site of their ill-fated adventure. Much has 
changed since that visit. The land is dying, except for 
the black vines around the ruins. The landmarks have 
undergone a dramatic change due to the release of the 
Dark, and the two freed gibberlings are well on their 
way to creating a mini-horde. Also, the Knorr have 
reached this area. It is intended that the heroes have 
a chance to interact with Knorr and discover their 
honor and nobility. Heroes also should interact with 
Isa, the Charonath. Though he is a zombie and with 
out thoughts, his actions are likely to appear to show 
intelligence and caring to the heroes. They should not 
want to lose him again, especially not to the unnat 
ural panther. 

The DM must decide how to pace these story events so 
that they occur long be/ore the heroes reach the ruin. 

523 Revelations! At some point it should become 
clear to the heroes just where they are, and they may 
remember that they left their gateway behind. A'wa 
will want to stay as far from the Ruin as possible once 
the tale of the hereos' adventure is told. If they fail to 
make this deduction the next event will help. 

524 Outcasts; There is the sound of two voices ahead, one 
an old man, the other a child's. 

During their explorations the heroes will meet the old 
outcast leader, Eka-nefsur'gox, and his granddaughter, 
Ha'lil-i'pil. Eka is wizened, but still very sharp; Ha'lil is 
15 but beautiful beneath the grime. Eka can tell the he 
roes what has been happening over the last years, and 
the DM may use Eka to feed the heroes ideas or infor 
mation to help move the story in the right direction. 
A'wa tries to impress Ha'lil, though she obviously is 
more taken by one of the heroes. She can be put at 
danger to motivate the heroes, or help them if needed. 

Eka knows of an old gate. It was rumored to stand 
in the ruins of Dreams. The Dark claimed it, no doubt. 

History; Moons ago they came, the feasters, both 
the living and the dead. Where they came from, none 


can say. At first there were only a few, but then more 
and more appeared. And the more they ate, the more 
they became. Then the great wizard, Hrahm-ban'ian, 
sought the help of the old ones, and went to seek out 
their tomb, deep in these once bountiful, now barren 
lands. He did not return, but the darkness did, and 
with it came the eaters of the dead, the unnatural! 
With the arrival of the unnatural, the living feasters 
have grown more frantic, as if driven like cattle to 
scour the land. 

525 Death Feasters; Death is all around, there are bodies 
not rended and serving the Crown. 

The heroes should encounter partial bodies as they 
explore. The bodies can not be animated. The second 
time, they will find two humanoids crouched over the 
bodies in the shade of a boulder-two ghouls feasting 
on the newly dead. 

526 Neither One Knorr Another; The sounds of wild 
cries, shrieks, and growls are carried on the wind. 

Three Knorr are battling nearly a dozen gibberlings, 
though twice that number lie dead at their feet. If the 
heroes do not help, partway through the battle, the 
gibberlings will see the heroes and turn to attack 
them. When the battle is done, only one Knorr will re 
main, seriously wounded and weaponless. 

This is Jalon, a young man with an inquisitive 
mind. A'wa will want to slay the beast man at once, 
which should encourage the heroes to give Jalon a 
chance. Though Jalon will posture, telling of how he 
and his brethren have slain so many, and how his 
friends will be back with help soon, he will pass out 
from loss of blood. If the heroes do not help, Eka will 
bind Jalon's wounds and tell them they can use all the 
help they can get. Jalon does not know what it is he 
fights, but he does know of a great black cat with one 
eye who hunts these lands and is said to be unkillable. 
If Jalon is helped, he will bless his friends' bodies (so 
they may not be raised) and will agree to help, if only 
to participate in one last battle that his people will 
sing of for ages to come. 

527 Creature of Darkness; The day is still; even the dis 
tant murmur that plagues this land has ceased. And then 
there sounds a yowl from the past! 

Their nemesis from the past has returned, but it is not 
interested in them. Its purpose is to herd the gibber 
lings so that their horde will flee right into the jaws of 
the Dark. The DM may let the panther be seen, long 
enough for the heroes to discover it is the same beast, 
but there is blackness where its one good eye was. Isa 
may be put at risk defending them. 

528 Gibberlings; At/irst it is a murmur, then a drone, but 
with each heartbeat the noise is louder and the earth shud 
ders at its approach. 

Creatures of the wild flee from the approaching gib- 
berling horde, more fearful of these killers than of the 
uncertainty of the Dark. If the heroes don't move away 
from the creatures, first they will encounter one for 
every person in their party, then two, then three, until 


frRADVAnOM EXSRCISC • ftS 







Sorcerbus Apprentices 


Graduation Exercise 


84 • CHAPTm Two 










they get the message that standing and fighting is not 
the answer. Eka will say the only hope lies in the tomb 
of the dreamers. The Dark must be driven back! 

S29 Nowhere to Run! The gibberlings herd the heroes 
to the Ruin. There, they will find the only way to sur 
vive the horde is to enter the ruin itself. If the players 
don't agree, shadowy tendrils of living black tar will 
grow up through the court flagging and try to drag the 
heroes into the jungle. Either Jalon or an outcast rogue 
in hiding will rush to their rescue. He witnessed the 
undead carry the bone gate into the ruins. 

Scene TWo: The Abiding Dark (Into the Ruins) 

531 Sanctuary: If the heroes are slow to realize that 
the Ruins offer hope, the DM may use the panther, 
ghouls, or gibberlings to encourage them to enter the 
Ruins. Once the heroes have decided their only re 
course is to hide in the Ruins, turn to that section. The 
following story events should be interwoven with the 
heroes' exploration of the Ruins. 

532 Scavenger Hunt The purpose of this exploration is 
to find the three parts of the gateway and get out, but 
to do that, the heroes will have to confront the Dark. 
Never fear, a weapon has been left to fight the Dark. 

533 Knorr Dies: The DM should make a point of cre 
ating an heroic death for Jalon, something that will 
display the barbarian's nobility and makes the heroes 
think. 

To defeat the Dark, the heroes must discover the 
story of the lamp 0 /enlightenment and then find its three 
pieces and put them together before the Dark drags 
them all down into its foul hole! Can the heroes fly? 

534 Contracting the Plague? One side adventure the 
DM may want to promote is an echo of the Plague. 
Since the Plague is difficult to play, this adventure 
uses a cursed item from room #4. A'wa will claim the 
ivory baton, so that he becomes the first victim of its 
drain and in fact becomes one of the unnatural in the 
course of the story. It is a fitting fate. 

535 Bully Gets His: If A'wa does not claim the cursed 
baton, let his posturing and fear lead him to a con 
frontation with the undead, who pull him screaming 
down into their lair. Then the heroes will have to deal 
with A'wa as undead. 

536 Epilogue: Return home: When at last the adven 
ture is finished, the heroes will find that any surviving 
outcasts are grateful and will help reassemble the 
gate and promise to guard it. 

When the heroes return home (after they are pre 
sumed dead) with their finds, they will be praised and 
receive rewards commensurate with their caste, per 
haps even an honorific from the queen's viceroy. 


Tk£ Ruins 

Random Events 

(1) Black blossoms: These flowers bloom in nooks and 
crannies. Their crushed petals mixed with water form 
the black liqueur that brings stupor and dreams. 
Chewing the petals requires a save vs. Poison -2 or the 
victim falls asleep for ld4 hours. These blooms wither 
in sunlight. 

(2) Dark mist The dark mist seems to follow the he 
roes for a time. It is driven back by light or will stay be 
hind around new death. 

(3) Dreamers: A dreamer is wandering and will ignore 
the heroes, treating them as part of his waking dream. 

(4) Fading light The power of the Dark is strong and 
lights dim and take on a disturbing sanguine hue. 

(5) Giant rats: These rats are cowardly and will only 
attack lone or injured creatures. Otherwise they just 
study prey unless chased away. 

(6) Remains: Here is the body of a creature. It has 
been drained and has no eyes. If not healed or dragged 
into the sun, the creature will rise when the heroes 
next pass and will possess the powers of an unnatural. 

KEY TO THE RVINS 

General Notes: The front half of this once-great build 
ing is buried in the rubble of its collapsed upper stories. 
While the 45' high roof may be climbed upon, a Dex 
check is required every turn to avoid falling off or being 
caught beneath some shifting rubble (Dmg IdS). 

All of the chambers have a ceiling height of 20'. 
The architecture is stately, stucco on stone, and highly 
decorated with colorful paintings. 

There are several groups of inhabitants besides the 
Dark, which oozed up through a chasm opened in the 
floor of the throne room by an earthquake. There are the 
dreamers, descendants of the original inhabitants who 
are addicted to the black liqueur. It is a poison of the 
Dark that casts the dreamers into fantasies of the mind. 
They are so addicted that other than repairing their 
bodies and eating periodically, they prefer to return to 
their dreams as quickly as possible. Tlien there is Ardu, 
once a sorcerer, now a ghast, lord of a warren of ghouls. 
Though not converted by the Dark, Ardu has learned to 
co-exist, for the Dark can not consume the undead. 
Finally, there are the unnatural, those creatures that 
have been slain by the Dark or its minions and then res 
urrected, filled with the negative energy of the Dark. 

1. Front Door: This great bronze door is slightly ajar; the 
great seal has been shattered. A feeling of dread emanates 
^om the darkness beyond the door. 

The door won't open further, for the hinges are bro 
ken. The heroes will have to squeeze in. The doors 
may be dragged shut and barred. 

2. Entry Hall: This chamber is cold and earthy, with a hint 
of the sweet odor of death. Debris and dusty cobwebs are 


Oradvation Cxircisi • ft7 



gathered in the comers. 

There is a flight of stone steps going up and a pit filled 
with rubble and surrounded by a rail that is a spiral 
staircase going down. The double doors are both ajar, 
but the single door across the hall is closed (it is locked 
and barred from the other side). There are three gib- 
berling corpses in this room. Their bodies show no 
wounds. This room hosts a flight of 30 bats and a cloak 
of 4 shadows. At the first distraction or separation of 
heroes, the shadows will move to divide and attack. 
The bats will cause a distraction to hinder the heroes' 
attempts to survive. There is no treasure here. 

When the heroes return to this room the gibber- 
lings will rise from the floor to attack as unnaturals 
converted by the powers of the Dark Beast. 

A. Attic Stairs; These stone stairs climb 20' to end 
in a balcony. At the back of the balcony is a concealed 
door that is opened by pressing and releasing the wall. 

B. Basement Stairs: The rubble may be cleared in 3 
turns, but after one turn it becomes clear the stench of 
death comes from below. The cellar is the heart of a 
ghoul warren lead by the missing outcast mage Ardu, 
now a ghast. A network of passages has been dug out 
of the walls, lacing the ruin with tunnels to many of the 
rooms. There are over a dozen ghouls that dwell here. 

If the cellar is entered from above, the ghouls will 
have buried four in the earth to surprise and delay the 
heroes. If the cellar is entered through one of the tun 
nels, Ardu and six ghouls will be here feasting on a 
gibberling. Ardu carries one of the 6' bone lances from 
the missing gate as a weapon (Dmg d8+3). Half of the 
ghouls will attack Charonath first. If the battle goes 
against them, Ardu will flee with the lance. 

Ardu has these treasures: an alarmstone, a light- 
stone, a writing tablet and 134 gp, 27 platinum and a 
ruby pendant worth 150 gp. A spellbook is hidden in 
the nest. It contains: armor, cantrip, summon swarm, 
and monster summoning I. 

3. Chains that Bind: This room is filled with chains, 
shackles, and pillories. There are scourges, tongs, and tools 
of punishment on the walls. 

If the three locks on the door to room 4 are tampered 
with, the items in this room will animate and attempt 
to bind two victims till the Dark collects them. Chains 
and manacles may be smashed (AC 0, hp 12, THACO 
13, Dmg ld4) and whips and scourges cut (AC 7, hp 7, 
THACO 17, Dmg 1). 

4. TYeasure Chamber? The door to this room is barred 
and locked with three separate locks. 

The door is reinforced.The locks are difficult (-10%). In 
this chamber are two ironbound chests, 3 coffers, a 
polished ebony box, several rotted bags spilling silver 
coins and treasure onto the floor, and a stone pedestal 
on which a helm, a pendant, and a goblet are laid. 
There are 1,500 silver coins here and another 500 gp 
value in loose treasure. 

The first chest is protected by a good lock (-15%), a 
poison needle (save vs. Poison or nausea-the poison 
has long since dried out), and a ward that will cast a si 


lence 15'R at 20th level. The second chest is protected 
by a double lock (-5% each try), a shocking grasp spell 
(Dmg d8+6), and when the lid is raised, a reverse grav 
ity catapults the opener to the ceiling for 1 turn (Dmg 
ld6). The rest are not trapped. 

The first chest holds 4,000 silver, jewelry worth 
250 gp, and a ring of protection +3. The second chest 
contains silver tableware for thirty worth 3,500 silver 
plus a silver and gold key the length of a hand (35 gp). 
Within the coffers are a white jade statue of an un 
known creature (an elephant, 120 gp), a set of 12 inlaid 
bracelets (200 gp), and a finely carved wooden box 
that plays music (300 gp). The helm and goblet are 
what they seem (45 and 15 gp value), but the pendant 
is a hemispherical clear crystal gem. It is half of the 
gem for the lamp of enlightenment. 

The ebony box holds an ivory baton that adds +1 
to range, area of effect, and per die of effect for any 
spells cast using it as a focus. However, this item is 
cursed, and it drains 1 point of Strength and Constitu 
tion each time it is used till it kills the user. Spells cast 
by others within 5' of the item have a 25% chance of 
miscasting (roll ld4 and a spell either above or below 
the one desired on the Spell Master list is cast). The 
heroes may believe they have caught the plague. 

5. Hall of Dreams: This corridor is filled with murmuring 
and flickering shadows. There is the feeling of being 
watched wherever one goes. 

The murmuring comes from gibberlings throughout 
this side of the building. This hall is painted with illu 
sions and characters will think they catch sight of a 
phantom out of the comer of their eye, but when they 
turn there is nothing there. The shadows are thick, 
like drapes. 

A. Converted Gibberling: By this rubble a lone gib 
berling cowers, mewling to itself This creature has actu 
ally been transformed by the Dark into an unnatural. 
When least expected, it will leap onto a target and 
embrace him, biting at head and shoulders (Dmg 1) 
while draining Strength points and trying to convert 
its prey. Bright light will make it cower. 

B. The Well: This basin is filled with dark water. The 
water is contaminated with black liqueur, the elixir 
that creates addicting fantasies for the dreamers. 
Those drinking from the water must save vs. Poison at 
-2 or within 1 turn succumb to a dream of adventure 
shared by the other victims. The DM should create a 
fanciful tale. They will fall unconscious in 2 turns for 
ld6 days unless the poison is neutralized or they are 
cured for 4 hit points. Those who make their save will 
suffer a dream within 1 turn and then will be sick for 
1 turn afterwards and unable to act. A cure spell or 
elixir of health will awaken those who succumb. 

C. Nightmare Forest: The walls of this hall are 
adorned with vivid paintings of a lush forest. If the heroes 
drank from the well, they will be taken with how real 
the forest looks. They can hear animal calls, and they 
can see birds and forest creatures flitting about. Then 
shadow falls over the woods, and the small creatures 


S8 • Ckaptsr Two 


scamper away at the approach of a larger animal (a 
bear, stag, great cat, bull, etc.). But the creature's eyes 
are black pits, and it attacks. Damage suffered from 
this battle is imaginary and goes away when the hal 
lucination ends. 

6. Hall of the Dead; Half of this pillared hall is filled with 
debris and shi/ting rock. Beneath some of the wreckage can 
be seen bones and bits of armor. 

The bones have been gnawed on. The armor and bits 
of bronze jewelry (worth 5-10 gp each) are a lure left 
by the ghouls to distract explorers. If the heroes take 
the bait, two ghouls will crawl out of their warren and 
block the exit. The ghouls beneath the debris will 
reach up and grab hold of the searchers. There will be 
one ghoul for each hero, plus 1 chance in 6 that Ardu 
is present. 

7. Gibberling Refuge: This banquet hall is a mess-ta 
bles, chairs, and sideboards overturned, drapes hung hap 
hazardly. There is a sweet odor in the air. 

Eight gibberlings have sought refuge in this room and 
have built a den beneath some tables and drapes. Three 
are slow, for they ate a dreamer and the black liqueur in 
their blood has doped them. The sickly sweet odor is a 
ghoul that they slew and tossed in a comer. They are 
tired of the dark and will be drawn to lights. 

8. Dancing Walls: This room is painted with a slurry of 
colors. Crystal chandeliers hang overhead. 

As the heroes step into the room, they can start to dis 
cern shapes in the color. When light is brought to the 
center of the room, the art comes into focus beneath 
the dancing reflection of the chandeliers. In fact, the 
images seem to animate and surround the viewer 
with an unfolding animated history. The story told is 
of a great people who excelled in magic. Then the 
darkness came and a battle for the light. A lamp, the 
lamp of enlightenment, was crafted just so, a silver lamp 
with a gem-half amber, half diamond-in its heart. 
The dark was driven back. Then black blossoms 
bloomed, a reward from the gods. The people learned 
to distill the black liqueur and learned to embrace the 
dream world. But the dark returned and the lamp was 
hung in a throne room to hold back the darkness. The 
illusion fades if the light is extinguished. 

9. Sleepers Feast: This gaily-painted room is filled with 
couches on which recline the still figures of people. Drapes 
divide the room into alcoves. 

There are two dozen dreamers in this room, most 
deep in sleep under the influence of the black liqueur. 
On side tables there are bowls of black blossom petals, 
sachets, baskets of a blue fungus (food) and stoppered 
wine carafes. The food and wine sustain the dreamers 
while they sleep. There are two crystal flasks hidden 
in wall alcoves containing transparent oil, a dram of 
which will heal small wounds and revive wasted 
muscles. Should a dreamer awake, he will eat, use a 
garderobe, and then go to the well and fill a small sil 
ver goblet with the black liqueur. Then he will return 
to dream. 


There is a hole to the ghoul warrens beneath a 
table. The ghouls sometimes carry off a dreamer to eat. 

10. Hall of Darkness: This hall's floor tiles are cracked. 
Ebony webs festoon the comers and ceiling, and shadows 
flicker in the light. 

There may be sounds of scrabbling or squeaking (rats) 
or dragged feet (ghouls). Blood and soot stain the floor. 

A. Vermin: There are two types of vermin to meet 
here. Sometimes it's only packs of giant rats that will 
snarl defiantly, attack injured heroes, or overrun, bite, 
and move on. Other times it will be ghouls who have 
crawled out of their warrens and spring from ambush 
from the webs or their holes. Match the number to the 
number of heroes. 

B. Well: This basin is filled with dark water. 

Beneath the water is animated black tar. It will seize 
those who drink from it and drag them into the 8' 
well. Treat as Bog Pit (pg 19), but actions suffer a 
penalty of -2. There is a hole to the ghoul warrens be 
hind the well. 

C. Aftermath of Battle; The hallway is charred and 
there is a partial body imbedded in one wall. 

The door seems at the center of the blast. On the 
corpse is a pair of blackened leather bracers AC6. On 
the floor in one comer is a splintered wand of fire with 
3 charges remaining. 

11. Dusty Corridor: This corridor is dusty and empty. 

12. Dissection: This room has rusting iron tools hanging 
on pegs on the wall, a shelf of glassware, and a large 
stained stone table in the center of the room. 

This room was used for dissection. The table is stained 
with blood and chemicals. There is nothing of value. 

13. Whirligig: The door is bowed and wedged shut. 

This room is littered with hollow metal spheres of all 
sizes around a small sundial-like pedestal. Moving 
any sphere will cause them to levitate into the air and 
take to whirling in interlocking orbits around the 
pedestal. Heroes must make Dex checks at -2 each 
round to avoid being hit by a sphere (Dmg 2). On the 
pedestal is an amber gemstone hemisphere that 
glows yellow. Removing it will deactivate the spheres. 
The stone is part of the lamp of enlightenment. 

14. Sandpit: The door is wedged shut. 

Beyond lies debris and piles of sand. In the far alcove a 
young female dreamer is pinned beneath a pillar. She is 
frightened. Shifting the pillar to free her causes a col 
lapse that slams the door shut and releases a cascade 
of sand and rubble that will fill the room in 10 rounds. 
The mortar in the right wall to #15 is loose and may be 
chiseled and blocks removed to escape. (Dmg ld6) 

15. Menagerie: This hall is empty but smells of moldy 
straw and antiseptic. All doors to the area are locked. 

A rusty key ring hangs on a peg, but there is a 1-in-lO 
chance a key will break when used. A magical amber 
glow lights the corridor when any weight is placed 
upon the floor. 

A. Here rests a female dreamer. She will be shy to res 
cuers and keep her head bowed. She is possessed by 


ftRADVAnON CXIRCZSC • 



the Dark and is unnatural. She will try to lead heroes to 
danger or to backstab them (x3). 

B. All seems still in this room. There is the carcass of 
a bear, shriveled from starvation. 

C. A dead tree stands in the middle of this room. Oth 
erwise it appears empty. Camouflaged on the trunk 
are four common poisonous lizards. 

D. There is the carcass of a pig here. A young man cov 
ered with dried blood looks up and smiles. This is a 
dreamer who awoke a while ago and was trapped 
here. He wants to return to the dream. 

E. This room has a shed shell of a giant beetle. There 
is a ball of grass (a nest) from which come sounds (just 
two hissing cockroaches). 

F. A dead tree thrusts out of a scummy pool. Bones of 
a small animal (rat) lie about the tree. A constrictor 
snake hides in the pool. 

G. This dusty, cobwebbed room is empty. 

H. A still figure sits in a chair. It is Ae shriveled re 
mains of A'nath-dor, a 6th-level mage. His spirit re 
mains as a haunt who will seek to possess someone to 
help destroy the Dark. 

I. This room is spotless; the walls, floor and ceiling are 
polished. There is a lemony pepper odor. 

J. This room has several piles of packed earth. In one 
comer is a deep burrow. Sleeping in the burrow is a 
giant stag beetle. It is unnatural. 

K. There is a smell of animal musk. An injured Knorr 
warrior lies here bearing many scars. He will warily 
agree to help the heroes for a time. 

16. Unattainable TYeasure: This room is painted with re 
alistic/rescos of a great throne room, filled with guards, no 
bles, two big mastiffs, and untold wealth. 

The room is littered with couches and more. The bod 
ies of several dreamers sprawl on some of the divans. 
In the center of the room is a large multi-faceted globe 
in a stand. When spun, the heroes will see the frescoes 
spring to life, especially the vast hoard of treasure. The 
DM may have the heroes fight a battle in their mind, or 
have them wander, eyeing all the treasures. The 
dreamers will perform the role of any figures in the he 
roes' dream. If the globe is stopped, the dream ends. 

17. Webs: This room is filled with thick gray webs, not the 
ebony satin in the other rooms. 

These webs won't bum but can be cut. The doors out 
are hidden behind the web. There are sue large spiders 
in here (use centipedes; poison +2; pain -2 all rolls). 

18. Dreamers: Stretched out on diuans arc several dream 
ers draped in shadows. 

The shadows are actually strands of dark webbing 
slowly leeching the life from these people. Their faces 
are contorted with worry or fearful nightmares. If they 
are awakened, they will be paralyzed with fear. The 
door to 17 is stuck. 

19. Phase Spider: This room has an acidic odor and thick 
cobwebs /estoon the 20' ceiling and comers. 

This is Ae lair of a phase spider, which will remain 
concealed in the webs near the ceiling and call to the 


heroes in a pitiful woman's voice. The webbing quickly 
obscures those climbing from those on the floor. Spin 
ning from a strand of webbing near the center of the 
room is the cross pole from the bone gate. These webs 
will not bum but may be cut. There is a hole to the 
ghoul warrens hidden by webbing in one comer. 

20. A. Ti-easure Tiove: The door is locked. This room has 
a musty mildew odor. It is empty, but tattered tapestries 
hang against the walls from iron poles. 

This room is a trap activated from the treasure room. 
When the trap is triggered, the door to the hall locks, 
and the floor slowly opens to reveal a 20'-deep pit 
filled with spikes (dmg 2d6). The tapestries can sup 
port up to 250 pounds of weight. 

B. TYeasure: This door is locked. The door has a shock 
ing ward on it (dmg ld4). Removing the contents of one 
chest triggers a counterbalance that causes the floor to 
open in 20A. Inside there are three ironbound chests, 
several small bronze statues of dog-headed people (50 
gp each), and four large concave, tarnished brass mir 
rors. The chests are locked and contain 6,000 silver 
worth of treasure, goblets, plate, and one large silver 
platter. There are also a fur muff, a vial of scented oil, 
and a pouch of fine powder. These items may be used 
to polish the mirrors to a gleaming surface. 

21. A. Empty Room? The door to this room is locked. 

The room is immaculate, the floors and walls polished. 
There is an odd odor in the air of lemony pepper. 

B. Closet: The door to this room is locked. At the far 
end of this chamber is a polished iron chest. The chest 
is not trapped or locked and contains a lantern, three 
flasks of oil, and a bolt of fine silk (200 gp value). Be 
neath the chest is a hole to the ghoul warren. On the 
ceiling by the door is a gelatinous cube that slides to 
the floor and blocks the heroes' retreat then moves 
forward to engulf them. Fires in this restricted area 
will inflict damage (ld6/rd) to the heroes. 

22. Ah ... Rats: The doors to this chamber are locked and 
barred. The floor is buckled and slopes steeply into a chasm 
with debris littering the slope. 

There comes a chattering and skittering from the 
darkness of the chasm. This is the nest of 40 giant 
rats. Crossing or fighting in this room requires Dex 
checks at -2; failure results in the character sliding 
into the chasm (2 rds; dmg 1 pt/rd). Up to 4 rats per 
person will attack fallen characters, or double that 
number if their lair is invaded. A pouch with a potion 
of extra-healing lies in the rats' lair. There is a hole to 
the ghoul warrens here. 

23. Gibberling Ambush & Deadfalls: Chunks of stone 
and piles of debris fill the room. There is the smell of smoke. 
Several small fires smolder behind piles of rocks. 
There are gibberlings here, 4 times the number of he 
roes. Though these creatures fear fire, they are using it 
to hold the Dark at bay. They have made bundles of 
rags tied with ropes and soaked in the dark liqueur to 
use as fire bombs (dmg ld4). The largest uses the final 
bone lance as a weapon and has tougher stats (AC 7, hp 


SO • CxAPTm T¥ro 



15, THACO 16, Dmg d8+3). They will try to drive the he 
roes off or slay the heroes if they can't. 

24. TXrnnel Worms: This room is littered with fallen 
blocks of stone and debris crushing several bodies. 

There are five tunnel worms hidden in the debris. 
They attack when the heroes are halfway across the 
room. There may be minor treasure, weapons, or tools 
on the bodies. 

25. The Dark Beast! Hanging on a chain 20' above a 
chasm is the dark legendary lamp of enlightment. 

The edges of the chasm are brittle and creatures mov 
ing near the edge must make a save vs. Petrify or the 
edge will crumble and the victim must be rescued 
from hanging onto the edge or a ledge in the chasm. 
The chasm is 80' deep. 

The Dark Beast will arise at a dramatic moment to 
battle the heroes. It will retreat after sla 3 dng two. If the 
two gems are joined together in the lamp of enlighten 
ment, it will light and drive it the Dark away. The char 
acters can also accomplish this if they reduce it to half 
its original hit points. 

The Caverns Below 

What lies in the depths of the dark chasm? Only fur 
ther exploration will discover. The DM may create fur 
ther adventures by mapping his own network of caves. 
Here are some ideas of what may be encountered. 

Creatures that live below in the caves include bats, 
giant beetles, stolen dreamers, a cloaker, piercers, 
shadows, a slithering tracker, and, of course, the Dark. 

Terrain challenges include large chambers, twisting 
tunnels, tight crawls, deep pits (50'-150' deep), ledge 
crossings, an underground river, pockets of gas, lime, 
hot springs, a steam fissure, slides, and climbs. There 
are two exits: one downriver, one up a natural chimney. 

Treasures that might be found feature edible fungi, 
a journal with an entry on the location of a wizard's 
sanctum, natural oil, singing crystals, a rotting robe of 
useful items, a ring of feather falling, and a wand of frost 
with 5 charges left. 

Creature Statistics: 

Bats, common (swarm); AC 8; MV 1 fl 24; HD 1/2; hp 1; THACO 20; 
#AT 1 per target; Dmg 1; SA obscure (-2 atk), stun (Ird); SD nil; SW 
noise blinds; SZ T (1'); ML unreliable (1); Int animal (1); AL N; XP 7. 
Beetles, giant rhinoceros (1): AC 3; MV 6; HD 8; hp 32; THACO 13; 
#AT 2; Dmg ld8 horn + 2d4 trample; SA nil; SD nil; SZ L (8'); ML 
elite (14); Int non- (0); AL N; XP 6S0. 

Beetles, giant stag (1): AC 2; MV 6; HD 5; hp 20; THACO 15; #AT 1; 
Dmg 2d6; SA nil; SD nil; SZ M (S'); ML elite (13); Int non- (0); AL 
N; XP 175. 

Carrion Crawler (1): AC 3/7; MV 12; HD 3+1; hp 19; THACO 17; #AT 
1 or 8; Dmg ld2 bite or special; SA paralysis (2d6 turns); SD nil; 
SZ L (9'); ML fanatic (19); Int non- (0); AL N; XP 420. 

Centipedes, giant (8); AC 9; MV 15; HD 1-1; hp 2; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 
0; SA Poison (+4 paralyze 2d6 hrs); SD Camouflage; SW cold/smoke 
(slows); SZT (1'); ML unsteady (5); Int non- (0); AL N; XP 35, 

Centipede, megalo (1); AC 5; MV 18 (6); HD 6; hp 32; THACO 13; #AT 
1; Dmg 2d8; SA I^ison (save = 2d4 acid); SD Burrows (AC 2); SW 
eold/salt (slow); SZ G (25'); ML average (10); Int animal (1); AL N; 
XP 1,400. 


Charonath skeleton: AC 7; MV 12; HD 1; hp 5; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6; SA nil; SD immune to charm/cold/fear/hold/sleep/poison, 
resist attacks from sharp or edged weapons (half damage), turns 
at -2; SZ M(5'); ML fearless (20); Int non- (0); AL N; XP 65. 

Charonath zombie: AC 6; MV 9; HD 3; hp 15; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld8; SA nil; SD immune to charm/cold/death-magic//ear/hold/sleep/ 
poison, turns at -2; SZ M (6'); ML fearless (19); Int low (7); AL N; XP 
175. 

Charonti, children (0 Lvl) (NA: 1-6): AC 10; MV 9; hp 2; THACO 20; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1; SA nil; SD nil; ML unsteady (5); AL NG; XP 7. 

Abilities: S 6, D 9, C 10,111. W 9, Ch 11. 

Personality; Charonti children are interested in fun and have a fas 
cination with magic and magical items. 

Charonti, family (0-2nd lvl) (NA: 1-4): AC 10; MV 12; hp 4; THACO 
20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-2; SA spells; SD spells; ML average (8); AL LG; XP 
15. Abilities: S 11. D 9, C 11,112. W 11, Ch 10. 

Personality; Generally, Charonti families are self-centered and ex 
pect the state Charonath to defend them. 

Spells: 2-1st: cantrip, read magic. 

Charonti, guardians (5th-lvl fighter) (2): AC 6; MV 9; hp 35; THACO 
16; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4; SA nil; SD nil; ML elite (13); AL LG; XP 175. 

Abilities; S14, D 12, C 15,110, W12, Ch 9. 

Personality; Fierce devotion to Crown and defense. 

Skills; endurance, local history, reading/writing 

Tools; Skilled with broad sword, club, dagger, halberd, short bow. 
Possesses five shards o/control and commands five Charonath. 

Tactics; Uses Charonath to pin foe, then attack flanks. 

Charonti, guildsmen (lst-5th lvl) (NA: 1-4): AC 9; MV 12; hp 3/lvl; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; SA spells; SD spells; ML average (9); 
AL NG; XP see level. Abilities: S 12. D 9, C 12,113, W 9, Ch 14. 

Personality; Money and profit come first for family. 

Spells; 1/2/21/3 2/4 21-1st: color spray, burning hands, light, shocking 
grasp; 2nd: stinking cloud, lueb; 3rd: hold person. 

Skills; appraising, craft, local history, read magic. Beginning at 3rd 
level can read wizard scrolls; 309{r-2% per level of guildsman of 
miscasting. 

Tools; Weapons, club, dagger, long sword, staff. 

Tactics; Survival and profit shape their strategies. 

Charonti. jurists (4th-lvl priest) (NA: 3): AC 7; MV 12; hp 19; THACO 
18; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA spells; SD spells; ML steady (12); AL NG; 
XP 175. Abilities: S 12, D 9, C 13.110, W 16, Ch 11. 

Personality; Aloof, insightful, fair, supportive. 

Spells; 3/2-1st: bless, command, detect evil, light, remove/ear, sanctu 
ary; 2nd: aid, detect charm, hold person, silence. 

Skills; etiquette, languages, ancient, readin^writing 

Tools; Quarterstaff. 

Tactics: Will not shirk his duty, but will compromise. 

Charonti, priests (3rd-lvl philosophers) (NA: 1-3): AC 8; MV 9; hp 
17; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA spells; SD spells; ML average 
(8); AL NG; XP 120. Abilities: S 9, D 10, C 15,110, W 15, Ch 12. 

Spells; 2/1-1st: command, cure, entangle, shillelagh; 2nd: heat metal, 
hold person. 

Personality; Skeptical, disdainful, analytical. 

Skills; reading'writing, ancient history, engineering, spellcrafL Pro 
ficient with club, staff, and short bow. Can resist priest spells 
(10%/Prst lvl -5%/caster level). 

Thctics; Work together to overcome foes. 

Charonti, rogues (4th-lvl chirurgeon) (NA: 1): AC 8; MV 12; hp 18; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld4+2; SA nil; SD nil; ML average (10); AL 
NG; XP 175. Abilities: S 10, D 16, C 12.110, W 13, Ch 11. 

Thief-PP 35, OL 45. F/RT 25, MS 30, HS 25, DN 35, RL 30. 

Skills; reading/writing, healing, herbalist, history. 

Personality; As a rule, Chirurgeons are pacifists. 

Tools; Carries herbs, bandages, and alcohol. 

Tbctics; Chirurgeons avoid combat, but will defend. 

Charonti, scholars (4th-lvl specialist) (NA:l-2): AC 10; MV 12; hp 12; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; SA spells; SD spells; ML average (9); 
AL NG; XP 175. Abilities; S 8, D 15, C13,115, W 10, Ch 10. 

Spells; 3/2-1st: magic missile, phantasmal/brce, shocking grasp; 2nd: 
Mel/'s acid arrow, mirror image. 


ORADVJUnON IXlRCItf • SI 



Personality. Scholars view others as uneducated people who don't 
appreciate their high social status and skills. 

Skills; direction sense, jumping, spellcraft. 

Tools; Weapons-dagger, rope, weighted sash. 

Tactics; Scholars prefer not to get tfieir hands dirty and wiU attack 
from a distance, fleeing when they must. 

The Dark Beast (1): AC 0; MV fl 6; HD 13; hp 99; THACO 7; #AT 1 per 
target; Dmg ld6-2; SA causes /ear (Wis -2), drain 2 Str & become 
unnatural, grapple; SD camou/lage, immune to mind control, mini 
mal damage from magic, silence 15'R; SW/ire/light strike at AC be 
comes 7, suffers ld6; MR 35%; SZ G (15'); ML elite (14); Int high 
(13); AL CE; XP 9,000. 

Description; This creature is living darkness, a massive semi-sen- 
tient shadowy being that moves by gliding along surfaces or 
hovering in the air. It is filled with negative energy and can not 
long survive the light of day. 

Dreamers (0-2nd-lvl fighters) (NA; 1-4); AC 10; MV 6; hp 4/lvl +2; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld2; SA nil; SD nil; ML unsteady (5); AL 
CN; XP 35. Abilities: S 7, D 7, C 16,110, W 5, Ch 16. 

Personality; Caught in a perpetual dreamy stage, dreamers may be 
acting out part of their dream or seek to drink the black liqueur 
and sleep again once they have eaten their full. Dreamers are 
basically cowards. 

Familiars (1): AC 6; MV varies; HD 2; hp 9; THACO 19; #AT 1 or 3; Dmg 
ld3 or l/l/ld2; SA varies (rend 1/1, sleep 2d6 rds, et al); SD saves as 
master, uaries; SZ T (IB'O; ML elite (13); Int very (12); AL any G; XP 
270. 

Fungus, deadly (7): AC 10; MV 6; HD 2; hp 11; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld4; SA spores (delirium/or ld4-rl rd: 1-5 cower, 6-7 stare, 8-9/lee, 
10 attack nearest target); SD poison skin (dmg 5); SW light (-2 to ac 
tions, +2 to atk it); SZ S (7'); ML elite (13); Int non- (0); AL N; XP 
120 . 

Gibberlings (12): AC 10; MV 9; HD 1; hp 4; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld4; SA cause/ear (each rd), pack attack (+1 atk/gibberling in pile up 
to 4); SD nil; SW /ear bright lights//ire; SZ S (4'); ML irregular (5); 
Int semi- (4); AL CN; XP 35. 

Haunt, A'nath-dor (6th-lvl wizard): AC 0; MV 6 hp 18; THACO 15; 
#AT 1; Dmg 0; SA drains 2 Dex, strangles opposing alignment (dou 
bles damage each round); SD only hurt by fire, silver or magical 
weapons (dmg=l -t-bonuses), spells; SW hold causes haunt to 
save vs. Paralyze or be expelled, must remain within 60' of body 
until gains host; AL NG; XP 1,000. 

Spells; 4/2/2-1st: affect normal fires, burning hands, light, shocking 
grasp; 2nd: /laming sphere, pyrotechnics; 3rd: flame arrow and fire 
ball 

Personality; A'nath-dor seeks only to avenge his own death by help 
ing defeat the Dark. Once the quest is completed he will leave. 
His spells may not be copied to a spellbook or learned by an 
other. 

Jackals (6): AC 7; MV 12; HD 1/2; hp 3; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1; SA 
nil; SD nil; SZ T (2'); ML unsteady (5); Int animal (1); AL N; XP 7. 

Knorr (4th-lvl fighter) (NA: 1-3): AC 7; MV 15; hp 25; THACO 17; #AT 
1; Dmg ld8; SA nil; SD nil; ML steady (12); AL LN; XP 175. 

Abilities: S 15, D 13, C 15,1 9, W 10, Ch 9. 

Personality; Lives by code. Fears magic. Seeks to destroy undead. 
Posturing 

Skills; Skilled with dagger, hand axe, longsword, spear, blindfight 
ing, fire-building, hunting. Never surprised! 

Tactics; Pelts spellcasters with rocks while slaying undead, then 
hunt mages. 

Lizards, common (1): AC 9; MV 6; HD 1; hp 5; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 
1; SA nil (poison, drowsiness -2 to actions); SD camou/lage; SW cold 
(slows); SZ T (2'); ML unsteady (5); Int non- (0); AL N; XP 15. 

Lizards, giant (1): AC 5; MV 15; HD 3+1; hp 22; THACO 17; #AT 1/1; 
Dmg ld6 bite or ld4 tail; SA grapples and worries (double damage); 
SD nil; SW cold/electricity (slows); SZ H (15'); ML average (9); Int 
non- (0); AL N; XP 175. 

Outcast, rogues (3rd-lvl bandits) (NA; 2-5): AC 7; MV 12; hp 11; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA nil; SD nil; ML unsteady (7); AL N; 


XP 120. Abilities; S 12, D 14, C 9,1 9, W 10, Ch 13. 

Thief-PP 35, OL 20, F/RT 25, MS 30, HS 35, DN 15, CW 80. 

Personality: Vague, dishonest, cunning, self-serving. 

Skills; animal lore, direction sense, running, survival. 

Expert at ambushing and finding way in wilds (50%). 

Tools; Weapons club, dagger, short sword, sling. 

Tactics: Bandits strike with surprise and run away if the going gets 
tough. 

Panther (great cat) (1): AC 6; MV 15 cl 6; HD 4+1; hp 21; THACO 17; 
#AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3 claws + ld8 bite; SA leap (30'), rend (d4+l/ 
d4+l); SD hide in shadows (75%), move silently (85%), stalk (92%); 
SW fears fire (-1 to actions); SZ L (7'); ML average (10); Int semi- 
(4); AL N; XP 420. 

Panther (unnatural) (1); AC 2; MV 12; HD 7+1; hp 36; THACO 13; #AT 
3; Dmg d3+l/d3+l claws +d8+l bite; SA drain strength (1), leap 
(30'), rend (d4+2/d4+2); SD hide (85%), shadow walk, silent (95%), 
stalk (97%); SW fears bright light/fire (-2 to actions); MR 25%; SZ L 
(9'); ML champion (16); Int low (7); AL NE; XP 2,000. 

Rats, giant (8): AC 7; MV 12 sw 6; HD 1/2; hp 3; THACO 20; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld3; SA disease (5%, weakness); SD pack attack (+1 atk per 
rat); SW/ear/ire; SZ T (2'); ML unsteady (5); Int semi- (4); AL NE; 
XP 15. 

Snake, poisonous (constrictor) (1): AC 6; MV 15 (9); HD 2+1 (3+2); hp 
10 (17); THACO 19 (17); #AT 1 (2); Dmg l/ld3; SA poison (+1, dmg 
2d4), (constrict); SD nil; SW cold (slow); SZ M (5'-9'); ML average 
(8); Int animal (1); AL N; XP 175. 

Snake, giant poisonous (constrictor) (1); AC 5; MV 15 (9); HD 4+2 
(6+1); hp 22 (33); THACO 17 (15); #AT 1 (2); Dmg Id3/2d4; SA poi 
son (+1, dmg 2d4), (constrict); SD nil; SW cold (slow); SZ H (12'-20'); 
ML average (9); Int animal (1); AL N; XP 420 (650). 

Shadows (4): AC 7; MV 12; HD 3+3; hp 17; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld4+l; SA drain strength (1, become shadow); SD +1 or better wpn 
to hit, immune to sleep/charm/hold; SW light makes them AC 9; SZ 
M (6'); ML fanatic (18); Int low (6); AL CE; XP 420. 

Spider, phase (1); AC 7; MV 6 web 12; HD 5+5; hp 28; THACO 15; #AT 
1; Dmg ld6; SA phasing (+4 atk), poison (-2 fatal), webbing; SD 
phasing each rd; SZ L (9'); ML champion (15); Int low (7); AL N; XP 
1,400. 

Toads, giant (5): AC 7; MV 6 hop 6; HD 2; hp 11; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld4+l; SA poison (+2 coma); SD camouflage, leap; SW heat/ 
cold (slow); SZ S (2'); ML unsteady (5); Int animal (1); AL N; XP 175. 

Trapper (lurker) (1): AC 3; MV 3; HD 6; hp 36; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 
4+victim's AC crushing; SA surprise; SD immune to cold/heat, un 
detectable 95%; SZ H (12'); ML steady (11); Int high (14); AL N; XP 
420. 

TXmnel worms (centipede) (6); AC 4; MV 6; HD 3+3; hp 18; THACO 
17; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4 bite; SA ambush +2; SW loss of 60% hp re 
treats; SZ L (12'); ML steady (12); Int non- (0); AL N; XP 175. 

Undead, crawling (7): AC 7; MV 9; HD V2; hp 4; THACO 20; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld3; SA nil; SD immune to charm/death-magic//ear/hoId/poi- 
son/sleep/tuming; SW cold (+1 damage suffered), resist damage 
from edged weapons (half damage); SZT (!'); ML fearless (19); Int 
non- (0); AL N; XP 35. 

Description; Animated conjoined body parts, real abominations 

Undead, ghast (1): AC 4; MV 15; HD 4; hp 23; THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg 
Id4/ld4 claws + IdS bite; SA paralysis (d6+4 rds); SD immune to 
sleep/charm; SW cold iron 2x damage; SZ M (6'); ML elite (13); Int 
very (12); AL CE; XP 650. 

Undead, ghouls (6): AC 6; MV 9; HD 2; hp 9; THACO 19; #AT 3; Dmg 
Id3/ld3 claws + ld6 bite; SA paralysis (d6+2 rds); SD immune to 
sleep/charm; SZ M (5'); ML steady (11); Int low (5); AL CE; XP 175. 

Unnaturals (1): AC (-2 AC); MV (-3 MV); HD (+2 HD); hp (+9 hp); 
THACO (-2 THACO); #AT normal; Dmg (+1 per atk); SA drain 
strength (1); SD special (displace, hide, silence, or shadow walk); SW 
fears bright light/fire (-2 to their actions); MR 25%; SZ normi; ML 
(+2 Morale); Int (+2 Int); AL +E; XP +2 levels. 

Description: Tliese are converted normal creatures. There eyes have 
become black starry orbs and their stats are modified as above. 


3fi • Chapter Two 




[BP^^harontrCi 


Outcast Em 


Knorr Enca 


Knorr Settle 


Possible Ru: 


Ruin Partial 


tTnanhil5nni 


WHoflial 










Light Forest 


Grassland 


Bog or Moor 


Broken Land 


HEl^^hath Mining 


Heavy Forest 


Volcano 


Swamp 


Forested Hills 


Mountains 


Irrigated'Farmland 


River 


Waterfall 


Plateau/Cliff 


Badlands 


iHramtra 




Nef(^ 

Canitf 




A 


BVnnramte pM 





r Laite^ 
Raadihn 


forest! 


|||Iake" 

IHramihn 


Qadtayi 


LQrchaieunv 


'Essur, 


iRiles^ 

vshfily 


^feneserj 


'fflkahra^ 


nramose 


-t- / <¦: 




Ihnkanii^^ 


1 


RdcKS'tav 




m 


ms 

MSm 


n^aruk 


9512XXX0701 Jakandor Isle of Destiny 

(c)1998 TSR. Inc. All Rights Reserved. Made in the U.S.A. 

TSR. Inc. is a subsidiary of Wizards of the Coast. Inc. 




I hnnote pl 

SettlemCTiii 


iTimiB 


Ilhnhbtep/Rjver 


Headc ouiTr 

CanipV 


JUhwahmm 

[Settleineiiti 


Halcuml 


lliniwann^ 




Uton River 


rSwre pnodaSlI 


^Uhron^ 


Teph^aai* ^ 


Wtinos^ 


[Hobra 

iNateau 


[^etUemenT 


iX^cKatkiyerj 


RdasuK 




ifiansun 


mill 


Wsnarai 


injeiMiroadaal' 


iMif qaaaaii 

FSettlemem! 


irafAlbantav 










