Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09210 CM 9 Legacy Of Blood"
See other formats
An Adventure for Levels 15 to 19 


Companion Game Adventure 


Legacy of Blood 


by Steve Perrin and Katharine Kerr 


DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, PRODUCTS OF VOUR IMAGINATION, and the TSR logo are trademarks 
owned by TSR Int. 



















Companion-Level Module 


Legacy of Blood 

by Steve Perrin and Katherine Kerr 



Credits: 

Editing: Heike Kubascb 
Cover Art: Clyde Caldwell 
Interior Art: Eric A, Gehlin 
Typesetting: Betty Elmore 
Cartography: Stephanie Tabat, Sue Myers* 
Gloria Habriga, and Dave Sutherland 
Thanks to Playtesters: 

Alan Cohn T Douglas Friedman, Dawn 
Friedman, Steve Henderson, Barbara 
Huguley, Howard Kerr, Heather Mace, 
Devin McKinney 
Original Maps by Jon Jacobsen 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


HOW TO RUN THIS ADVENTURE 
DM BACKGROUND . . 

Fcnhold ... 

DM Notes f . ........ 

On Darokin , 

THE NEW HEIR .*. 

Starting the Adventure .. 

Traveling to the Capitol . 

In Darokin. ,.., .... 

Player Information . 

The Dominion Statistics .... *. 

Staying in Darokin ....... ______ 

On To Fcnhold ... 

Arriving in Fenhold ... 

The Manor House of Fenhold ...... 

FENHOLD . 

Player Notes .................... 

DM Notes .".. 

The Dominion ................... 

ADVENTURES IN FENHOLD. 

DM Notes ______ 

The Annoyances ... 

The Dragon ..................... 

The Kidnapping .. 

The Festival of the Fens.. 

INTO THE GREAT SWAMP 


* 1987 TSR Inc. AD Right* Reserved Primed in U-S.A 

DUNGEONS 4 DRAGONS. UftD, PRODUCTS OF YOU Ft 
IMAGINATION, and the TSR tags *re trademark* owned by 
TSR. Inc. 

DiitntmtnJ 10 ihr IhhA trad? in (hr United StHhrt by Ranch(tm) 
Himjt, In?-, *ral in Caruda by JWidunt Home of Qtmwhi, I*t*L 
Dinribulcd to tht toy uut hobby trad? by regional diuributort. IHi- 
mhutrd in rh? Umwd Kingdom by TSR (UK) Lid 

Tbb adventure u protected under the copyright law* of the United 
Statics of America. Any reproduction or oLher unauthorized u*e of 
i he imicnil or urwork contained here in u prohibited witbeut the 
exprexu written pcnmiuCm of TSR Inc: 


Finding Barzan 

Traveling Through the Swamp .. 

BarzanLair .......................... 

Barzan"s Tactic's ........._........... 

ENDING THE ADVENTURE 

Totaling the Points ... 

Further Adventures ... 

Uneasy Alfheim .. 

The Sunken City . 

Clearing the Swamp ............... 4 .... 

NEW MONSTERS .... 


TSR UK Ltd, 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB l +AD 
United Kingdom 



ISBN 0 88038-487 5 9210 


TSR. Inc, 
ROB 756 
Lake Geneva 
W1 53147 


Giant Swamp Eel .......... 

Giant Freshwater Slug ..._ 

Swamp Vdya. 

Swamp Snapping Turtle ..... 

Nekrozon ........ _ 

NFC STATS . 

Pre-Generated Player Characters 
Friendly NPCs ............. 

Barzan and his Allies . 


..,2 
... 2 
... 2 

... 3 

...3 

4 

4 

.... 4 
,,, 4 
... 5 
... 5 

... 6 
... 7 
... 8 
9 

...11 
,,,11 
.. .11 
.11 
...17 
, # .17 
,. .17 
,,.17 
...18 
.. .20 
.,.21 
,,.21 
,, ,21 
,,.21 
,, .24 
.,.25 
,, .25 
,,.25 
,,.25 
.. .26 
...26 
...27 
.*.27 
.*.27 
,,.27 
.,.28 
.28 
.. .29 
.. .29 
.. .30 
*..30 




















































HOW TO RUN THIS ADVENTURE 


legacy of Blood is designed for a party of lawful 
adventurers, 15th to 19th level, who do not 
already rule dominions of their own. The 
party should have a combined experience 
level of at least 90 and a good selection of 
magical items It is also important that the 
party include a high level magic-user. The 
DM can look at the ready-to-use characters 
in the NPC section and use them as a guide to 
the proper party strength. 

This module is an example of how a small 
area may be developed in detail to provide 
many opportunities for role playing. Ltgaty of 
Blood contains a detailed description of a 
dominion, complete with important NPCs, 
location descriptions, and internal politics, in 
addition , the module includes a mystery for 
the players to solve. 

It is especially important that the DM read 
through the entire module before beginning play. 
You must be thoroughly familiar with the villains 
in order to run their evil .schemes propedy. 

DM BACKGROUND 


Each chapter presents two kinds of materi 
al . On the one hand, there are key encounters 
and encounter areas, with scripted text at 
important points in the action. (As always, 
read only the text in boxes to your players.) 
On the other hand, there are descriptions of 
basic situations and NPCs, Do not dismiss 
this background as "local color'* only It can 
easily be developed in greater detail to pro 
vide you with many dramatic opportunities. 
For example, the module only sketches in the 
capital city of Darokrn. The DM could easily 
map the city and add political intrigue, 
encounters with thieves, and other dangers. 

Ihere are notes and background material for 
the DM at the beginning of each chapter. 
Always read these before beginning play in that 
chapter. Make notes of the ways to expand the 
material and bring it to life by adding details or 
small problems for the characters to solve. 

Fed free to add color to the bare bones of the 
tables. If you roll a farmer on an encounter table, 


give him a touch of personality. He might talk on 
and on about his ailments while the characters 
are trying to extract important information from 
him, or he might be a backbiting gossip. His ail 
ments or gossip might be a vital clue to the mys 
tery that the characters must solve. 

Although Legacy of Blood is set in the on 
going D&D* campaign world, it can be 
adapted for use in any other universe. Place 
the swamp in a logical relationship to the rest 
of your world's terrain, but remember that, 
since its origin is magical, it should be larger 
than normal geography would allow. Second, 
note that the ruling government in the mod 
ule is a republic. IF you wish the dominion to 
be part of a feudal government, change the 
titles of the various officials and important 
persons. In this case, the peasants would be 
much more timid than the free farmers and 
fishers of the module. Finally, some of the vil 
lains arc fugitives from justice. Change their 
countries of origin to places in your world. 


Over the years, the Republic of Darokin lias 
been expanding into the empty lamb on its 
bonders. Many of these new dominions are 
in a dide around the nation and forest of 
Alfheim. By treaty with the reclusive elves, 
Darokin may colonise these dominions and 
act as a buffer between Alfheim and the oth 
er nations of the continent. 

One of these buffer dominions, 
Fenhold, came under the rule of Lord 
Ralph, who in his day was a famous 
adventurer A good ruler despite his odd 
ities, Lord Rolph was obsessed with 
making improvements in his dominion. 

Fenhold takes its name from die swamp 
occupying its southern half. The origins of 
the Fen are shrouded in mystery, unlike 
those of the Malpheggi swamp, which occu 
pies much of southern Darokin. Lord 
Rolph was Fascinated with the notion of 
draining part of the swamp and/or building 
a causeway, to facilitate commerce between 
the capital, Darokin, and Sdenica in the 
east. This plan earned him the hatred of the 
people living in the swamp, while draining 
his treasury. 

Lord Rolph never married. Thus, 
when he died a few months before the 
start of this module, he left no direct heir 
to take over his dominion. 


In his will, Rolph left Fenhold to a dis 
tant cousin. If the players are running the 
ready-to-use characters in the module, the 
heir is Lord Hugh of Redlands. If the players 
are using their own characters, the DM 
should give the dominion to the highest 
level fighter who has no lands of his own. 
The module thus provides one character 
with a dominion, but the DM can rest 
assured that this inheritance is not an easy 
gift. Keeping Fenhold will take all of the 
character's resources and a great deal of 
help from his friends . 

The players of the other party mem 
bers might wonder why their characters 
should risk life and limb to help the new 
heir. Thanks to its ongoing expansion, 
the republic needs friendly and powerful 
characters on its borders. If the other 
party members perform well, they may 
be rewarded with their own lands. 

Fenhold 

Fenhold has fallen on hard times. 
Rolph's scheme drained his cash 
reserves, and Fenhold is a poor domin 
ion even in good times. Second, the Con 
fidence Level is very low. Not only did 
the lord's project anger many of the 
inhabitants, but after his death tempo 


rary stewardship passed to Lord Geraint , a 
loyal but incompetent man whose poor 
judgement has demoralized everybody. 
Almost all of Rolph's retainers and offi 
cials have left in disgust, and his subjects 
constantly grumble about his misrule. 

Worst of all, an insane chaotic magic- 
user covets the dominion. Barzan of the 
Black Hand was briefly employed by Rolph 
to cast spells for the swamp project (mostly 
lower water and wall of stone). As he explored 
the fringes of the Great Swamp, he discov 
ered a vast Elemental gate to the Plane of 
Water made permanent by the wish of 
some long'lbrgptten wizard, whose strong 
hold lay in the ruins of an ancient city, now 
drowned in the swamp. 

Barzan is convinced that possessing 
this gate is his first step on the path to 
Immortality, and is determined to keep it 
for his use alone. He has planned a cam 
paign of terror to frighten the inhabit 
ants. With the dominion in chaos, none 
will be able to hinder his ambitions. 

If he succeeds, he will go to the Daro- 
kinian ruling council, denounce the cur 
rent lord of the dominion, and offer his 
services to correct the problem in return 
for the dominion's overlordship. Natu 
rally the disturbances would stop in a 
short time and Fenhold be his forever. 


2 




DM BACKGROUND 


DM Notes 

The Confidence Level, At the start of play, 
FenhoicTs Confidence Level stands at 
225, Unsteady. It's up to the player char 
acters to raise this level by ruling wisely 
and by eliminating Barzan. During play* 
Barzan will take certain actions that will 
lower the level by a set number of points. 
Often the characters will be unable to 
scop these actions, though they can take 
steps to correct the situation which will 
regain the points* Conversely* the play 
ers will also have opportunities to take 
measures that will raise the level by a set 
number of points. The DM must keep 
track of the running total. A listing of the 
points lost and gained for various actions 
is given after the last adventure of the 
campaign. At the end of play, this total 
becomes the new base Confidence Level 
for the dominion. If the player characters 
raise the level to 270 or above, the Daro- 
kinian government will reward them. 

Since the action of the module takes 
only about a month of game time, the 
DM should ignore the standard results of 
the Confidence Checks as given in the 
B&D(r) Companion rules* If the Confi 
dence Level drops below 200, the inhab 
itants of the dominion will not turn to 
defiance; rather, they 'll wait and watch* 
giving the ruler time to put his affairs in 
order If the characters allow the Confi 
dence Level to drop below 100, then Bar- 
zan has won. At that point he will go to 
Darokin and convince the ruling council 
to put the dominion in his hands. 

The DM can invent other situations 
than those given in the module to give 
the characters a chance to gain or lose 
Confidence Points. For example, if the 
DM rolls an encounter with a baffling* 
the halfling might be elderly or ill. If the 
player characters help him in some way, 
they oould gain two or three points, or 
lose the same if they treat him callously, 
Remember that in a small, isolated, 
community, gossip is everyone^ favorite 
recreation; news travels quickly, 

On Darokin 

Here is some general information the DM 
needs to run encounters in Darokin* 

The Government of Darukin, The Republic of 
Darokin is an oligarchy (sometimes called a 


plutocracy'). While all citizens are free, a few 
wealthy families hold most of the political 
power. These families are primarily mer- 
chant houses, although a few large land 
owners are included in the ruling circles. 
The country is divided into two areas* the 
Heartland and the Borderlands, 

The government is organized into rul 
ing councils* All citizens of the Heartland 
vote to elect thirty-seven members of the 
Outer Council, but these candidates are 
chosen from a list presented by the outgo 
ing Council. The list includes only suitably 
wealthy candidates because, the Council 
says, only rich men have the time to gov 
ern properly. How many citizens believe 
this rationalization is unknown. 

Once elected, the Outer Council 
chooses an Inner Council of Six, the men 
who actually do the day-to-day ruling. 
The Outer Council offers them advice 
and debate on important issues and also 
has a tie-breaking vote. 

The current Council rules fairly and 
treats the general populace well out of an 
enlightened self-interest* A happy, prosper 
ous citizenry buys the trade goods on which 
the wealth of the Council depends, while 
sullen citizens hoard coin and provoke riots 
that disrupt the flow of trade. All citizens of 
Darokin have* the right to appeal to the 
Inner Council if they feeJ that their legal 
rights were infringed upon, and the current 
Council win listen to the appeal of even the 
smallest farmer. Of course, one must be a 
landowner or wealthy to be considered a cit 


izen, In the past, some corrupt Councils 
demanded bribes to hear an appeal* or sim 
ply did not allow appeals they felt were 
against their own selfish interests. 

There are, two slightly different versions 
of the basic law's. One* the Heartland law, 
is administered bv appointed officials who 
are directly responsible to the Inner Coun 
cil. The other, the Border law, is adminis 
tered by a special class of hereditary rulers, 
the Magistrates of the Borders. The equiv 
alent of barons in a feudal system, these 
Magistrates own hereditary dominions 
and have wider powers than the average 
appointed judge or constable. They are 
still bound by die Darokinian laws and 
cannot treat the inhabitants of their domin  
ions in a harsh or arbitrary manner 

The character who has inherited Lord 
Ralph's dominion has just become one of 
these Magistrates of the Border. The 
DM should explain in some detail that 
the heir is not an all-powerful feudal 
lord, but the ruler and landlord of free 
beings with legal rights. 

Although a Magistrate is entitled to 
the dues and taxes described in the Com 
panion rules, the tax rates are set by 
Darokinian law, and the ruler may raise 
them only in a real emergency. If a Mag 
istrate of the Border refuses to comply 
with the laws, the Inner Council has the 
authority to confiscate his lands, by force 
if necessary, and bestow the dominion 
upon another family. 



3 





THE NEW HEIR 


STARTING THE 
ADVENTURE 

First the heir must receive the news of his 
good fortune and travel to the capital 
city* Darokin* to claim his inheritance. 

If the players are using the pre-rolled 
characters provided in this module* the 
DM can set the stage by announcing that 
Lord Hugh and his companions have 
just returned to the city after some 
months adventuring in the north. Play 
begins as they enter the city and find an 
inn. 

If the players have characters from an 
on-going campaign* then the herald sent 
by the Outer Council finally catches up 
to them in their current location. The 
boxed material below assumes that the 
party is staying at an inn. If they*re not* 
suggest that they go to a local tavern for 
an evening or else modify the material to 
fu their current whereabouts. 

If using personal characters, the name 
of the character should be substituted for 
Lord Hugh's in die dialogue below. 


The iavem room is half-empty and 
rather quiet this evening, A few mer 
chants argue in one corner about the 
current price of grain; near the door* a 
couple of undistinguished young men 
who might be thieves are looking over 
your party's equipment and clothing; 
near the hearth a pair of drunken 
dwarves are singing loudly in their 
own language. Then the door opens* 
and a tall* dark-haired man strides in. 

Although his clothing is weather 
stained and dusty* he stands with an 
air of one used to respect and obedi 
ence. In one hand he carries a staff 
wound with colored ribbons, the uni* 
versal sign of a herald. Even the 
dwarves fall silent as the innkeeper 
hurries over to speak with him. In a 
deep, authoritative voice* the herald 
says, "I seek a man named Lord 
Hugh of Redlands, 13 

Once the heir has identified himself, the 
herald kneels at his feet and says the fol 
lowing. 


a I bring grave news, my lord. Lord 
Rolph of Fenhold has died and named 
you as the heir of his dominion." 

The heir should make an ability check 
against his Intelligence on 3d6. If suc 
cessful* he remembers that Rolph was his 
mother's cousin twice removed. If not* 
the herald looks rather scornful as he 
explains the relationship. He then says: 


"If you would claim this dominion* 
my lord, then you must meet with 
Arnulf, council member in the capital 
of Darokin, to complete certain legal 1 
formalities. 1've spent long months 
searching you out, so it would be best 
tf you traveled there immediately" 

At this point the players will probably 
want to discuss the turn of events. Try to 
get them to stay in character as much as 
possible. The herald, hblfram> joins in 
the conversation and can supply them 
with general information about the state 
of affairs in Darokin, the legal standing 
of a holder of a dominion on the border* 
and the likelihood of reward for the other 
characters if they accompany their 
friend. He knows nothing of Fenhold's 
current troubles or* indeed* much about 
il except its location. 

Traveling to the Capital 
It is possible that the characters will be a 
long way from Darokin when the herald 
reaches them. To speed play, the DM can 
calculate the approximate amount of 
time that the journey would take and 
then announce that they've arrived, as 
in, "After three long weeks on the road, 
you reach the main gate of Darokin." 

On the other hand, if the DM wishes* 
or if there are other events to accounted 
lor in a long-running campaign, the 
journey can be played out day-by-day. In 
either case, Wolfram accompanies the 
party, since he's on his way back home. 
When they reach the city, Wolfram rec 
ommends a good urn and oilers to intro 
duce them to Arnulf* the council 
member who's in charge of finding 


Rolph's heir and settling the legacy. 

With player characters of the levels 
involved in this game, it is possible that 
there might be two or three magic-users 
or others with use of enough teleport spells 
to take them directly to Darokin. If they 
discuss this in front of Wolfram, he 
points out that the city of Darokin is 
shielded by a spell that does not allow 
teleportation over the town walls. It is 
possible to use teleport within Darokin* 
but not out of or into the city walls. In 
fact* most cities have this protection 
spell* which is actually a form of wish first 
discovered by the wizards of Glantri and 
sold by them to any interested city. 

The characters can teleport to a known 
spot close to Darokin, but they cannot 
get inside the city this way. 

IF the characters decide to use teleport 
without consulting Wolfram (and none of 
them are characters from Darokin* who 
would know of it}, then they cast the tele 
port spells and have the gut-twisting feel 
ing of traveling by teleportation, are 
treated to ihe light-show effect of glimp 
sing untold alien dimensions* and find 
that they have not moved an inch. The 
spells have been used, however* and they 
must wait to renew them before trying 
something else in that line. 

Similarly, characters attempting to fly 
into Darokin have a ballista bolt shot 
across their bows. Darokin even employs 
night-seeing elves and guards with per 
manent detect invisible spells cast on them 
to stop most forms of illegal entry. Daro 
kin is not keen on anyone who doesn't 
come in through a gate* where they can 
be registered with the city guard. Illegal 
entry still occurs, but it is strongly dis 
couraged. 

In Darokin 

Characters arriving, with or without 
Wolfram, can request an audience with 
Arnuif which he gives within a day. A 
demand for an audience means the char 
acters will be delayed at least two days 
before they obtain their audience. A 
bribe gets them past the majordomo to 
Amulf in a matter of minutes. 


4 








THE NEW HE IB 


Player Information 

Amulf is a tall, greying, affable man in 
the garb of the clergy of the Church of 
Darokin, He can quickly put the inheri 
tor past the formalities of inheriting the 
dominion. Though the heir may have lit 
tle memory of Rolph, his cousin kept 
himself well-informed of the accomplish 
ments of his unsuspecting heir The 
Councils, both Inner and Outer, are well 
pleased with the choice. 

Arnulf has the following information 
about the dominion of Fenhold. The 
DM should try to make the players stay 
In character and extract the information 
from him rather than merely read it out. 
Remember, the republic wants the heir 
to take up his duties; Amulf minimizes 
the difficulties. 

First, the Confidence Level is 
Unsteady Ralph was personally popular 
with his subjects, though a vocal minori 
ty objected to his policies about the 
swamp* Those who expected to live 
under his enlightened leadership for 
many years to come were badly shaken 
by his untimely death. They will view the 
heir with suspicion and match him 
against Rolph's high standards. In addi 
tion, both humans and halflings live in 
the dominion, with some friction 
between the races. Finally the Seneschal 
Lord Geraint f s incompetence has left many 
beings with grievances that the new heir 
must soothe* 

Amulf has already had some vague 
repons of the troubles Barzan is causing, 
though he has no idea of who is responsi 
ble. There are rumors of apparitions and 
ghosts in the swamp, sightings of 
undead, strange disappearances, blight 
ed crops, and dead animals. Amulf 
doesn't know whether to believe in these 
matters or not, but he prefers to think 
that they are only the fancies of simple 
peasants. If he repeats them, he T ll 
remark that to seasoned adventurers, 
such nuisances should present no real 
problems. 

Third, Amulf will express the general 
eagerness of the Council to see anything 
that will increase commerce and thus tax 
revenue in the Borderlands. While some 


members of the ruling Councils have 
doubts about Ralph's plan for the cause 
way through the swamp, they support 
the plan in principle and would like to see 
it completed. 

Lord Rolph had been spending the 
equivalent of 1,500 gp a month in the 
attempt to build his causeway and drain 
the swamp around it. Republic officials 
estimate that the causeway would be 
worth a good 1,000 gp a month to the 
dominion, if trade takes off as they 
expect it would, in tolls and taxes. 

Arnulf also has the basic legal statistics 
for the realm, given in the Dominion 
Statistics table, but since he has never 
visited Fenhold, he can supply no details. 

Dominion Statistics 
The Dominion of Fenhold 

Size: One 24 mile hex 
Loyalty: Republic of Darokin 
Territory Type: Borderlands 
Terrain Types: hills, swamp, some clear 
Population: 700 families (1) 

1, 50 human farmers 

2. 300 human fowlers/fishers 


3. 350 baffling hiilmcn 
Population Gain: 1-5% a month 
Resources: two animal and one vegeta 
ble 

1. herds 

2. fish and eels (2) 

3. farm produce 
Income; 

Standard: 7,000 gp/month 
Tax: 700 gp/month 
Resource: 2800 gp/month (3) 
Monthly XP Award: 9,800 
Taxes to Darokin: 2,100 gp/month (4) 
Taxes to the Theocracy: 3,050 gp/month 

( 5 ) 

(1) In addition to the official tally, there 
are about 100 individuals, deserters and 
other low-lifes trying to stay alive in the 
swamp. 

(2) Pickled eels are a trade item, 

(3) This is less than normal resource 
income because the fish and eel resource 
produces less than a standard animal 
resource would. 

(4) May be paid in coin, goods, or by 
providing troops 

(5) Payable in coin, goods, or foodstuffs. 



5 














THE NEW HEIR 


The State of the Holdings 

Amulf knows that the Magistrate's seat 
is an old manor house, complete with a 
defending wall, though he has no details 
of its current condition. He has the plans 
of the original tower built on the site* but 
he knows that it was tom down in favor 
of a roomier keep a century ago. How 
ever, no one filed plans of the new keep 
with the Council. 

Staying in Darokin 

The player characters may want to spend 
a few days in Darokin before heading for 
Fenhold. There are many things a Mag 
istrate needs that a wandering adventur 
er does not, and the villages of Fenhold 
are unlikely to have the goods required. 

For the purpose of buying goods and 
hiring followers, assume that all prices in 
Darokin are the same as found in the var 
ious rules books. Darokin is a large town 
with many mercantile interests. If it is 
available anywhere in the D&D(r) world 
or your campaign world* it is available in 
Darokin at the book price. Everyone 
knows that prices can be as much as 300 
percent higher in oudying regions like 
Fenhold. 

Day-to-day living expenses in Daro 
kin are the same for the heir as for a Bar 
on in the rules. 

State of the City 

Darokin straddles the Street river where 
it leads to the Malpheggi Swamp and 
thence to the sea. Most of the city is on 
the east bank of the river; the west com 
mercial and slum area. 

The east bank is prosperous, with 
good cobbled streets and well-dressed cit 
izens* with only occasional riff-raff. On 
the west bank, the streets are din or 
mud* depending on the season* and the 
percentage of riff-raff is much higher 
than that of well-dressed citizens. 

Rather than provide a map of the city, 
we give you a flow chart showing the 
major districts and the best distances 
between them* If running a chase 
through Darokin (sec The Thief, below) 
these distances should be all you need* 
along with an active and experienced 


imagination, to determine what son of 
streets and buildings the characters are 
running through and what sorts of haz 
ards they might run into. 

Weapons In The City. Anyone entering the 
city through the main gate will be 
stopped by the watch, who will gladly 
recommend appropriate inns and brief 
the characters on the city rules. 

No obvious armor and major weaponry 
may be carried on the city streets without 
permission of the Council. Specifically, this 
means that a character may wear armor 
under his clothes, virtually impossible for 
anything but leather* chain mail, or band 
ed mail* and may carry a one-handed 
weapon* such as sword or handaxe. 
Spears* halberds, bows, crossbows, etc. are 
not allowed on the streets, though they can 
be bought for use elsewhere. 

The Thief 

Within a day of their arrival, Barzan's 
agents in the city are aware of the player 
characters. Barzan is in the city* waiting 
for their arrival, hut he w r ill lake no direct 
hand in events. 

Instead, Barzan works through the 
Thieves Guild to hire the thief* Jocko the 
Guile (see the NPG section), to follow the 
characters and do what he can to disrupt 
their plans. 

Jocko attempts to plant things he has 
stolen on the player characters* steal 
their valued magical items* and to dis 
suade anyone the characters hire from 
taking the job. He also follows whichever 
character seems most vulnerable* and he 
will even try to attack a character if the 
opportunity seems to present itself* 
though only if he really thinks he can 
win. He is unlikely to attack a ready 
fighter in full armor and weaponry. 

jocko will also try to subvert any char 
acters* such as another thief* he thinks 
might be persuaded to betray the heir. 
His agents first watch the potential trai 
tor carefully, to make sure the possibility 
of defection is exists and then try to 
arrange a meeting between the character 
and Jocko. Jocko appears masked and 
with a bolthole ready in case the charac 
ter attacks him. Be sure to rew-ard player 
characters who think of this possibili ty of 


smoking out potential opposition by 
planting a double agent. 

If chased, Jocko does everything he 
can to discourage pursuit* including 
dumping over peddlers' carts* frighten 
ing horses* etc. Remember that Darokin 
is a medieval city, and that the streets are 
narrow and packed with people. There 
are many places to hide. 

The player characters should be told of 
this follower the first time he fails a Hide 
in Shadows roll. He should be described 
as one of many sights on the street, along 
wirh the legless beggar, the traveling jug 
gler* the woman in the incredible hat, the 
curtained palanquin holding who- 
knows-who* etc. 

The second time Jocko fails a roll, they 
should receive Ability checks against 
INT to realize that it is the same person. 
Now they can become suspicious and 
take action if they like. 

If caught* Jocko knows nothing of Bar 
zan. He was hired to do a job through the 
Guildmaster. Trying to question the Guild- 
master is difficult for anyone unless he is a 
thief of suffictendy high level himself. 

CITY FLOWCHART 

A 

20''' I 20 

B-I60-CT D-140-E 


160 240 220 340 

1 l I I I 

F - 240- G-240 -H -240- 1 - 200- j 

I 120 | 244) I 

240 160 \l20 / 240 320 

I I I I 

K-240-L-120-M-120 -N -240 -0 
I 

60 

4-North P 

20 

I 

Q-360- R- 200- S- 200-T-480-U 

Numbers indicate distance in yards between dis 
tricts. Flow Chart is not to scale. 

Key to Darokin Flowchart 

A. Town Gate 

B. Weavers, Dyers, Tailors (ADV) 

C. Inns* Taverns (ADV) 

D. Carpenters* Potters, Masons 

E. Horse/Mule Traders (ADV) 


6 




THE NEW HEIR 


F. Armorers* Fletchers, Weaponsmuhs 
(ADV) 

G. Guild Halfs, Legal Offices (ADV) 

H. Open-Air Food Market, Street 
EntertainersCHAZ) (ADV) 

I. Magic Users t Alchemists, Herbalists 
(ADV) 

j. Blacksmiths* Stables (ADV) 

K Temple Quarter 

L. HQ of City Guards 

M. Hall of the Councils* Legal Offices, 
Tax Collectors 

N. Jewelers, Metalworkers 

O Wealthy residences, luxury shops 
R Bridge across river (HAZ) 

Q. Cheap Inns, Taverns, HQ of Thieves 
Guild (HAZ) (ADV) 

R. Brewers (HAZ) 

S. Fish Market, Wharves, Warehouses 
(HAZ) 

T Slum Residences (HAZ) 

U* Soapmakers, Tanners, Candlemakers 
(HAZ) 

All areas marked (HAZ) are areas where 
thieves and muggers abound, ready to 
snatch an unguarded purse or to hit 
someone over the head in the evening 
and lighten his purse undisturbed. 

If a party stops in any of these places* 
particularly if they are in pursuit of 
someone or searching for a friend* pick 
one and make a Pick Pocket roll on him, 
assuming the abilities of a IOth level 
thief If the thief is caught, the players 
can do what they want with him, though 
the DM might find it interesting to make 
the thief a 13-year-old child, perhaps 
with big, brown, appealing eyes. Never 
pass up the chance to confront a player 
character with a moral decision. 

Areas marked (ADV) are places char 
acters can go to recruit followers or pur 
chase supplies. 

DM Notes 

This section of the adventure can be 
expanded if you wish. J ust set up various 
inns or shops and add NPCs. Possibili 
ties include other Councillors, hostile or 
hel pful innkeepers (some of whom might 
have ideas or heard rumors that might be 
helpful), and encounters with footpads, 
insane magic-users, spooked horses, 


drunken officials, etc. 

In the Eastern side of town, the char 
acters can be embroiled in street fights, 
have their pockets picked, be assailed by 
friendly or unfriendly drunks, or some 
one (the poor fool) might even try to mug 
them. 

On to Fenhold 

Barzan takes no overt action against the 
player characters in Darokin. He leaves 
shortly after giving the Thieves Guild 
Guildmaster his instructions, and heads 
for Fenhold* intending to give the new 
heir a proper welcome. 

Barzan has been making many differ 
ent preparations against the advent of a 
new heir One of these has been inciting 
tension between Fenhold and its north 
ern neighbor* Alfheim. 

The elves of Alfheim have always had 
a friendly but wary relationship with 
Darokin. They officially welcomed 
Darokin *s induction of the lands around 
their forest into Darokin* but they are 
less pleased with Darokin T s project to 
turn all of these borderlands into work 
ing, civilized parts of Darokin. They 
worry, probably rightly* about the time 
when Darokin decides to induct Alfheim 
into the republic. 

Acting as a mysterious being called 
"the Waterford/' Barzan has been incit 
ing the dan nearest to Fenhold into hos 
tility. On his way back to Fenhold he 
stops off at the Clan holding and tells 
them that the new heir is simply using 
Fenhold as a beachhead for an invasion 
of Alfheim. After all, why would Daro 
kin want such a high level fighter in 
Fenhold if not to use his abilities against 
the elves? 

Most elves are not impressed by these 
arguments, but some of the dan are. 
Five clansmen, all experienced, if Cha 
otic, former adventurers, decide to try to 
drive the new heir back to Darokin, or at 
least demonstrate that elves are not to be 
taken for granted. 

I net Newteaf Lord Wizard Elf* (AC - 
1; E10; hp 40; #AT i; D 2-11; MV 9"; 
ML 8; AL C) chain mail + 2, two-handed 
sword + l t ring of spell turning, medallion of 


ESP 90\ elom cloak , elvers booh 
Spell book: 

First level: charm person, detect magic , 
magic missile , protection from evil, read 
magic, sleep, memorize 5 

Second level : detect invisible, ESP, mirror 
image, phantasmal force f web, memorize 
4 

Third level: fire ball t fly, hold person, 
lightning bolt , memorize 3 

Fourth level: confusions, hallucinatory ter 
rain , wizard eye, memorize 2 

Fifth level: cloudkill, teleport , memorize 
1 

Dylan Long branch, Superhero Necro 
mancer, {AC -2; E8; hp 30; #AT 1 
(bow); D 2-7; MV 12'; ML 7; AL C) 
leather + 5, long bow + 2 with 15 arrows 
+ /, displacer cloak 
Spell Book: 

First level: detect magic, magic missile ; 
protection from coil, read magic, ventrilo 
quism, memorize 4 

Second level: ESP, invisibility, levitate, 
web t memorize 3 

Third level: clairvoyance, haste, water 
EI) } memorize 2 

Fourth level: dimension door r tee storm 7 
remove curse memorize 2 

Avran Greenstrider , Myrmidon Warlock, 
(AC 0; E6; hp 21; #AT 1; D 3-10; MV 
9"; MLS; AL C) plate mail +2, battleaxe 
+ 2* staff of power 21 charges, nng of life 
protection 2 charges 

SpeU Book: 

First level hold portal, light, read tan- 
guoges, sleep, memorize 3 

Second level: continual light, invisibility, 
phantasmal forces, memorize 2 

Third level: hold person f lightning holt, 
protection from evil Iff radius , memorize 
2 

Myriet 7 alllooker t Swashbuckler 
Enchantress, (AC - 1; E5; hp 20; #AT 1; 
D 1-6; MV 9 W ; ML 9; AL C) chain mail 


7 




THE NEW HEIR 


+ 3, shield + 1 ? short sword, wand of cold 
3 2 charges, ring of regeneration 
Spell book; 

First level: charm person, detect magic, 
protection from coil, memorize 2 

Second level: tnvisibility, locate object, 
mirror image, memorize 2 

Third level; clairvoyance, protection from 
evil JO 1 radius , memorize 1 

Telvon Treetamer f Swashbuckler 
Enchanter, {AC 0; E5; hp 18; #AT 1; D 
2-9, MV 9 H ; ML 6; AL C) chain mail + 1 , 
shield + l f normal sword + 1, ring of pro 
tection + 1, elven cloak f wand of lightning 
bolts 9 charges 
Spell book; 

First level: magic missile, read languages, 
read magic, memorize 2 

Second level: detect evil , invisibility, 
phantasmal force, memorize 2 

Third level: dispel magic, hold person, 
memorize 1 

The elves will watch the party for a 
couple of days, and take up an ambush 
position which allows them to attack just 
after the noon break. They hide in the 
roadside trees, first attacking with spells 
and arrows from a distance. Then the 
higher level elves engage the party, while 
the lower levels continue to use ranged 
weapons. Their goals are to frighten any 
followers and pack animals with the par 
ty and to destroy the party members. 

Once defeated, any elves left alive will 
say that they obtained their information 
from the Waterford, the only name they 
know Barzan by. They can identify fiar- 
zan by his magical items, if not his face, 
if the party wishes to hold them captive 
or hostage for this purpose. 

The story of this attack lowers the 
Confidence level by 10 points. The peo 
ple of Fenhold do not want the elves mad 
at them. If the party manages to prevent 
killing all the elves and convinces the sur 
vivors of their good intentions and sends 
them back to Alfhcim, this Confidence 
Icvd drop is only 5 points, but it still 
drops. 


Overwhelming Force 

If the characters have hired a group of 
mercenaries to work with them, the DM 
can handle the situation in one of several 
ways: 

* If there are elves in the character 
party, the five elves sneak into the camp 
at night during the elfs watch and con 
front him with the information they 
obtained from the "Waterford. 1 ' Since 
the characters have elves in the party, the 
Alfheimers are more inclined to watch 
and wait rather than attack. They might 
do this even if the characters don't hire a 
mercenary troop. 

* The DM can work up a War 
Machine group of 30 elves and still run 
the ambush. It will make an interesting 
change from dungeon crawling for the 
characters. 

* The elves can merely harrass the 
party, using their superior forestry skills 
to ambush sentries and pick off strag 
glers. They can even shoot messages on 
arrows into the character camp, A few 
"Go back to Darokin, war-mongers" 
messages should leave the characters 
thoroughly confused. 

Arriving in Fenhold 

Read the following to the players. 

As you ride the last few miles to the 
manor house, a fog surrounds you. 
You're still five miles north of the 
swamp, but you see the gray mass bil 
lowing up, then sweeping toward you 
like a calm, stately, animal. When it 
swirls over you, the world becomes 
damp, cold, and strangely silent. 
Even the sound of your horses' hooves 
is muffled. You fed as if the chill came 
out of the depths of the earth itself. 

If the characters want to try to detect magic 
here, by ah means let them, but this fog is 
just normal weather for Fenhold. 


Farmers are working in their fields all 
along the road, but no one looks up as 
you pass. They keep dose and talk 
very quiedy among themselves. 


If the characters hail one of the farmers, 
roll on the Random Encounter Table for 
Farmlands. Remember to roll on the 
Rumor Table from now on during 
encounters. 


At last the manor house looms out of 
the fog. The pale gray curtain wall, 
slimy now from the moisture in the 
air, rises about 20 feet high with 
square towers at each comer of the 
rectangular complex. There are two 
more towers over the main gate* 
where a rusty portcullis hangs at an 
angle, allowing just enough room for 
a rider to pass under. A drawbridge 
leads to the gates over a now-dry 
moat. White geese are grubbing 
about in the moat's tall grass, but 
nothing or no one else is in sight. 


The portcullis is not a trap, merely so 
badly stuck that it can neither be raised 
or dropped. If the characters hail the cas 
tle, Niall runs out. If they ride in, read 
the next box. 


The inner ward is half cobbles, half 
mud. There are no out-building$ t 
only the huge stone manor house. 
Three stories high, it sports turrets on 
its gray slate roof. The bottom story 
serves as a stable, the body heat of the 
animals helping to heal the house. 

A young man comes out of the mas* 
sive iron-bound, gates. Tall and 
blond, he wears a linen tunic, leather 
trousers, and a cloak. He carries a 
great sword slung in a baldric. He 
bows to you and says, "My lords, 
greetings. Are you the new heir and 
his companions? I'm Niall, the guard 
captain/ 1 

Though a good fighter, Niall is too young 
for this important post and hates making 
decisions. He will gladly follow the new 
heir's orders. If the party does not ask 
about the seneschal, Niall volunteers the 
following. 


8 







THE NEW HEIR 


'Tm surprised Lord Gereint is not 
back yet to greet you, my lord. He 
went out for his usual afternoon ride a 
couple of hours ago. His lordship's 
very old, you see, and very set in his 
ways. He probably dismounted and 
sal down for a rest, then fell asleep. 

It*3 happened before. Well, my lord, 
come in to your new home. I'll have 
the servants rake care of your horses 
and baggage. We've been planning a 
feast in your honor." 

When Niall daps his hands, no one 
answers. He tries again, with no bet 
ter resulrs. Finally he goes back into 
the manor house and comes out again 
chivying some servants, who nod 
grudgingly at you and pick up as little 
luggage as they can get away with and 
carry it into the gates. 

Alert characters should smell trouble at 
this point and want to search for Lord 
Gereint. If so, turn to the section below 
labeled The Search. If they leave imme 
diately. they can find an important due 
with Gereint f s body that indicates his 
seeming accident was arranged by some 
one who uses magic. 

If the characters remain in the manor 
(or, of course, when they return LF they 
leave immediately) give the players the 
map of the Manor of Fenhold, As they 
move through the house, read out the 
room descriptions. Note that there are 
some items they will only find if their 
characters are searching an area. It will 
take several hours of game time for the 
party to explore the manor 

If the party didn't set out to look for 
Gereint, Niall will come to them and say 
that he"s worried about the old man. 
He'll wait for the heir to suggest a search. 

The Search 

When the party goes searching for 
Gere hat, they find the old man about a 
mile away along the main road. His 
horse is nearby with a broken foreleg. 
Apparently the horse shied and threw 
him, killing him in the fall. 

Casting a raise dead fully on Gereint will 


have no effect. He's 102 years old t and 
his body cannot take a resurrection. If a 
speak with dead is tried, he knows little, as 
he was snoozing in the saddle when the 
accident occurred. 

Barzan murdered the old man. He 
sent a small fireball into the road directly 
in front of the horse, which panicked and 
raced off, finally throwing and roiling on 
Gereint some distance away from the 
impact. IF the characters backtrack and 
search along the road where they Find the 
body, they find charred traces of the 
explosion. If they wait, the traces vanish 
in the constant dampness of the area. 

If the characters immediately begin 
investigating Gereint'$ death, give them 
5 Confidence Points, but if they delay, 
there is no penalty. 

Chaos in the Manor 

Without Gereint the manor house is in 
complete disorder, As mentioned earlier, 
Niall is the last true retainer in the house- 
hold, but none of the servants obey him 
because of his youth . The characters will 
have to yell for stablebovs and hum up 
the maidservants. 

Remember that these servants are not 
serfs. They obey the characters, grudg 
ingly, and they resent any attempt at bul 
lying. Most of them would rather be 
dismissed from the Magistrate's service 
and go back to their families than keep 
their jobs. On the other hand, firm but 
courteous treatment will earn their 
respect. Raise the Confidence level 5 
points if the servants are treated well, 
and lower it by 5 if they arc not. 

The Manor House of Fenhold 

General Description 

The manor house is old and sadly in need 
of repair. There are cracked floorboards, 
broken windows, worn treads on the 
stairways, and patches of mildew on the 
stone walls every where. The furnishings 
are similar; once luxurious, now they are 
battered and worn. The tapestries are 
rotting away and the bed hangings are 
faded. Thanks to its unusual layout, the 
second floor always smells of horses, but 


the stables are under the main dwelling 
for a good reason. The body heat of the 
animals rises and helps keep the second 
story warm. 

Many of the rooms on the plan have 
the same number. Each of these rooms is 
identical to others sharing the number 
For example, the rooms numbered 6 are 
all servants' quarters, untidy places 
crammed with bunks and little else. 

Like many old places, the manor is 
without plumbing. Water is obtained 
from a well in the courtyard. Along the 
west walls are a series of outhouses whose 
cesspools are supposed to be cleaned out 
every couple of months. This hasn't been 
done for several months, 
t, Horse Stalls These are made of wood 
with Iron mangers. At the moment the 
manor owns only three horses, not 
counting Gereint r s mount, leaving plen 
ty of room for the characters' mounts. 
The nordieastemmost stall has a ladder 
leading up to the kitchen area and a trap 
door concealing a ladder leading tfown to 
the food storage cellar. 

2. Storerooms . These rooms are piled high 
with hay and bags of oats. Several cats 
live very well off the mice in them. 

3. Jack Room . On the north wall are high 
shelves holding six saddles, three in good 
repair Six bridles hang from pegs near 
by. On the other walls are more shelves, 
empty except for dust. 

4. Guardrooms. Each has a bench and a 
small table. 

5. Quarters far the grooms. Although there 
are three bunks in each room, only one 
groom currently lives in the manor. He 
has the eastern room to himself. 

6. Servants J quarters. Each has four bunks, 
but only rwo servants share each room, 

7. The Hail of Justice. This is the most 
important room in the manor, and the 
reason for the manor's existence. Here 
the Magistrate holds legal court and 
criminal trials. The furniture is in better 
repair than elsewhere. On the dais is the 
Magistrate's chair, a small throne made 
of dark oak with dark green cushions. 
Nearby are two small tables where offl- 
rial scribes sit during proceedings. Any 
observers of the proceedings stand to the 
east. On the west wall directly behind the 


9 





THE NEW HEIR 


dais hangs the banner of the Republic of 
Darokin. 

B. Holding cell An empty room where 
accused persons are kept directly before 
their trial. The doors cannot be opened 
from the inside* 

9. Armory. On shelves and in orderly 
ranks, are swords, shields, and pot' 
helms for 20 men, 

10. Troop barracks. The four remaining 
men of Lord Rolpfrs personal guard 
have bunks here. 

1 1. The Great HaU . This room is the other 
center of life in the manor. On the dais 
are three wooden tables for the Magis 
trate^ family and guests and a hearth 
placed so that the honored ones get plen 
ty of heat, On the floor are twelve 10-foot 
long tables with benches. One has a bro 
ken leg and lists at a sharp angle. The 
Door is inlaid with colored slate in a maze 
pattern, but some of the tiles are missing 
and others are cracked. 

12. Storeroom Barrels of ale and sacks of 
flour and barley line the walk. Five enor 
mous hams and big nets of turnips and 
onions hang from the ceiling. 

13. The Kitchen . More food supplies line 
the walls. In the middle of the room are 
two long worktables. Next to the hearth 
is an earthenware bread oven. 

14. Lodderway . This storeroom is current 
ly empty except for the ladder which 
leads down to the wine cellar and the 
room for hanging meat. 

15. Lord GereinTs bedchamber. There is a 
large bed with heavy hangings, a wooden 
chest of clothing, and a small table with a 
water jug on it on the south wall. A table 
and four plain chairs stand in the middle 
of the room. On the north wall is another 
table, heaped up with scrolls and parch 
ments, the records of the dominion's tax 
es and incomes for the last year, 

16. The Magistrate f s bedchamber Just 
beyond the door is a small reception 
chamber, cut off from the bedchamber 
proper by green and silver brocade drap 
eries, faded and tom. There is an enor 
mous bed by the south wall just beyond 
the curtains, and a table airs in front of 
the hearth. A wardrobe stands by the 
north wall, and a set of empty shelves on 
the west. The wardrobe still has several 


suits of Lord Rolph's clothes in it, but all 
are worn and shoddy. AD of his best 
clothes were distributed to the people of 
the dominion as a legacy from their 
departed lord. The room is lit by a contin 
ual light spell on a brass post, 

37. The Magistrate r s private office. The ser 
vants have kept this room exactly the 
way it was the day Lord Ralph died. On 
the tabic in the middle of the room lies a 
half-finished letter to Arnulf of Darokin. 
Beside it lies a quill and an ink-pot, 
though all the ink has dried. Ralph's 
cloak still hangs over the chair at the 
table, and his pen-knife lies on the floor 
where he dropped it. Aside from the 
table and chair, the only furniture is a set 
of shelves on the west wall containing 
several hundred treatises on Darokin 
law* A continual light spell beams from a 
bronze boss set into the ceiling. 

The letter reads: 4l I am glad that you 
approve my choice of an heir, because I 
know my time is near. I again entreat 
you to prevent any attempts at my resur 
rection. There comes a time in every 
man's life when he is willing, nay, when 
he longs to die, and that day has come 
upon me now. Yet, I am uneasy in my 
heart, fearing that my loyal citizens will 
come to harm without a strong leader. 

*T also write about a troubling inci 
dent. The other day, Davvi of the Fenfolk 
came to be to tell me that., " Here the 
writing ends. 

If asked f Niall will say that everyone 
knows about the letter Gereint, after 
reading it, instructed that it be left where 
it was for the heir and he would convey 
Lord RolpfTs thoughts to Darokin in his 
report of the Magistrate's death. 

If the new Magistrate asks Dawi what 
he wanted to see the Magistrate has for 
gotten* Gereim never thought it worth 
following up, though Niall feels it should 
have been done. 

In fact, DawFs granddaughter saw a 
party of obvious adventurers heading for 
the area he knows contains the sunken 
city The adventurers were furtive, and 
no one else knows of their existence. 

18. Secret stairwell. This secret way was 
meant for the Magistrate to reach the 
first floor without passing any public 


areas. A continual light spell illuminates 
this room and the stairs. 

19. Chapel, This place of worship is 
meant for the use of a cleric of Darokin* 
There has not been one in residence for 
twenty years since the previous deric, an 
old adventuring comrade of Rolph's, 
died. The priest in the village of Fenhold 
occasionally holds services in the chapd, 

20. Cleric jf quarters. This is intended to be 
the living quarters of the resident deric, 
Anselm j the priest from Fenhold village, 
sometimes uses it when he has to stay 
over at the manor, so there are no longer 
any traces of the deric who had been 
Rolph's companion, 

2L Guest rooms. These rooms are meant 
for guests. Each has a bed, a table and a 
chair, and a wardrobe. 

22. Sitting Room. This is the meeting 
room for a visiting or residing magic- 
user. 

23. Bedchamber. This is the sleeping room 
for the magic-user suite, 

24. Sitting Room. This is a large meeting 
room for a high-ranking visitor. 

25. Bedchamber. This is for whoever uses 
the high-ranking visitor suite. 

26. Troop quarters. The guard captain and 
hi$ select guard are supposed to live here. 
Right now, Niall is the only occupant. 

27. Stairwell and storage. The west wall has 
many shelves containing linens and oth 
er necessities. The room also holds the 
stairway leading to the Hall of Justice. 

28. Wine cellar. This room can hold sev 
eral hundred bottles of wine, but the 
stock has been considerably depleted in 
the last year and not restocked, thanks to 
Lord Gereint's policies. 

29. Roots and meat cellar This storage area 
is well stocked. 

30. Mustering areas Jot covering retreats. 
These underground areas have never 
been used. The plan is to use them to 
retreat to if the manor is overrun; the 
defenders can gather here and arrange 
for someone to cover their retreat while 
the rest go out the tunnels to the boil 
holes several hundred feet to the north 
and to the west of the manor. 


10 




FENHOLD 


Player Notes 

At this time, the DM should remind the 
players about the basic focus of a domin 
ion game: earning Confidence Points, 
Actual Experience Points are no longer 
important. What the player needs for his 
character is Confidence Points. 

Confidence Points are earned by rul 
ing well and reacting well to crises. They 
reflect the confidence both the citizens of 
the dominion and the ultimate rulers (the 
Darokin Councils, in this case) of the 
dominion have in the ruler. Confidence 
Points are totalled at the end of the game 
to determine the Confidence Level of the 
dominion, A high Confidence Level 
means the dominion is doing well and 
the Councils of Darokin are pleased. A 
low level means that Darokin will find 
someone else to rule the dominion, 

DM Notes 

This chapter describes the dominion so 
that the characters can explore it and 
meet its inhabitants. The DM should use 
the appropriate Encounter Table for each 
type of terrain. Note that in the dry land 
part of the dominion there are no wan 
dering monsters as such. The farmers 
long ago drove most troublesome wild 
beasts away from their lands. If an 
encounter roll comes up "special/ 1 the 
characters have a chance of finding a 
minor due. Roll again on the Minor 
Clues Table, note the location of the 
due, and cross it off the table. No clue is 
ever found twice. 

The Dominion 

The Politics 

A well-run dominion is relatively quiet, 
with few major political problems. The 
Magistrate is mostly concerned with pro 
tecting its borders and helping the citi 
zens face major natural catastrophes. 

This is no longer the case in Fenhold, 
The Seneschal, Lord Gereint, was a 
martinet and a blunderer. He made a 
good executive officer under Rolph, but 
was a disaster as an administrator 

He refused to listen to the advice of the 
mayors and sheriffs (sometimes with 


good cause, as you will see) and ignored 
most of the problems of the dominion in 
favor of completing the causeway Lord 
Rolph wanted built. 

Efforts to complete the causeway 
failed. Workers refused to appear, engi 
neers left the project because of his high 
handed treatment, and the swamp 
constantly eroded what had been built. 
As he grew more frustrated. Lord 
Gereim became increasingly abrupt with 
his subordinates, who generally left his 
service, and the citizens, who avoided his 
company. 

Perhaps he was influenced in his 
intransigence by Barzan. Whatever the 
cause, the characters are inheriting a 
dominion with little regard for its pre 
vious administration and a conviction 
that a simple change of personnel is 
going to do no one any good. 

The Geography 

There are three types of terrain in 
Fenhold, each with its own kind of 
inhabitants. Under Lord Rolph's rule, 
these three groups got along well, but 
now they are squabbling amongst them 
selves. If the characters are to rule the 
dominion successfully, they must soothe 
the injured feelings of their subjects. The 
DM should stay alert for opportunities 
during play to improvise encounters 
where the characters can mediate differ 
ences between various NPCs and solve 
their problems. Each successful solution 
is worth Confidence Points, how many 
depends on the situation. 

The Farmlands 

This relatively flat area between the 
swamp and the high hills also includes a 
fringe of rolling hills to the north and 
east. Here dwell the human farmers, 
who also raise dairy cattle in the hills. 
There are two villages, Fenhold, about a 
mile from the manor house, and East 
Riding, eight miles away. Although most 
farmers live in one of these villages and 
trudge out to their fields every day, there 
are two isolated dairy farms in the hills to 
the southwest. Barzan plans to give these 
people a lot of unpleasant attention. 

The farms have always been prosper 


ous because the soil is rich and well- 
watered. Thanks to the atmosphere of 
fear and suspicion, however, some arc 
beginning to decline. Parents no longer 
send their children out alone to watch the 
goats and sheep; orchards that are far 
from the villages have not been pruned 
this spring; people have started hoarding 
what little coin comes their way in case 
they have to leave their holdings and 
move elsewhere. The farmers who have 
holdings in the hills resent the halflings, 
whom they accuse of trying to encroach 
on their grazing grounds with their 
flocks. All the farmers resent the swamp 
dwellers, whom they see as being lazy 
good-for-nothings who probably steal 
whenever they get the chance. 

Although most of the farmers arc 0 
level humans, some of the young men 
have served in the Darokinian army. 
Each village can produce ld4 + 1 2d level 
level fighters and ld6 1st level at any 
given time. In a real emergency, all the 
fighters will muster for a force of ten 2d 
level and 12 1st level, but these men have 
no weapons of their own and must be 
supplied from the magistrate's armory. 

Important NPCs of ike Farmlands 
Will Duchamp , Mayor of Fenhold. Will 
Duchamp is a middle-aged farmer who 
has lived all of his life in Fenhold, He is a 
0 level human with major farm holdings 
in the surrounding land. His basic atti 
tude toward the new heir has been taint 
ed by constant arguments with Lord 
Gereim. He has no faith in the ability of 
a bushwacking adventurer to administer 
a dominion properly. Truth be told, he 
considers himself far more qualified, 
though he has not the slightest idea of 
how to petition the Council of Darokin to 
obtain the job. 

He will deal with the new Magistrate 
the same way that angered Lord GereLnt. 
He will tell the Magistrate what to do, 
rather than making suggestions. 

Duchamp's major program is to drain 
the swamp and transform it into farm 
land. If the Fenfolk canh see that they'd 
be better off as farmers, drive them off or 
kill them. Anyone who doesn't see the 
logic of this program is a fool and not to 


11 




FENHOLD 


be bothered with. He knows that all of 
the right people of Fenhold, the other 
farmers, support him, 

Hilda Kosseauf, Mayor of East Riding. 
The mayor of East Riding Is a 5th level 
magic-user from Karameikos who mar 
ried a fellow adventurer and settled in 
East Riding to become a shopkeeper. She 
was eventually elected mayor and her 
husband became the local Justice, an 
office combining circuit judge and local 
sheriff. Her husband died recently while 
investigating some mysterious sightings 
near the Fens. 

Hilda is positive that most of the prob 
lems of the dominion have a common, 
malevolent source. Her own schooling in 
magic gives her some better insight into 
what can be done with illusions and sum- 
atoning! than the common farmer has. 
However, she has a hard time convincing 
her constituents that the problems are 
anything but a curse of the Fenfoik. 

Hilda is fairly young, about 43, and is 
striking rather than beautiful. She has a 
strong sense of duty to her people and is 
anxious to remove the source of the mal 
aise that has fallen on the dominion. 
Hilda realizes that, alone, she has no 
chance to accomplish anything against 
such great power, and she could never 
convince Gcreint that the source existed. 

Anselm, Priest of Darokin This 6th level 
cleric lives and preaches in Fenhold. 
Since the death of the last chaplain, he 
has come to the manor to lead worship 
there. Anselm has seen many winters, 
and is mystified by the events occurring 
in the dominion. He spends most of his 
time trying to evoke the spirit of the "old 
days, when all the peoples of our fair land 
lived together in harmony" He has tried 
to use remove curse on the land and on spe 
cific problems with no effect, and as a 
consequence doubts himself and his god, 

Anselm is a broken man who lives one 
day at a time, going through the rituals 
which he now distrusts. If the party 
arrives with a Name level cleric, he puts 
himself entirely under the orders of that 
cleric, though he continually carps and 
moans about the uselessness of any 
action in the face of such malevolence. 


Perhaps the right actions can renew the 
faith and skills of this man, but it will be a 
long, uphill climb. If the new Magistrate 
succeeds in bringing Anselm back to his 
former vigor, he earns 20 Confidence 
Points, as Anselm is well liked in 
Fenhold and anything to bring him out 
of his current funk is appreciated. Firing 
or discarding Anselm loses 20 Confi 
dence Points. 

Further disasters can befall Anselm 
either before or after the player charac 
ters meet him. See the Annoyances in 
the Adventures section. 

Xavier, Priest of Darokin, This fiery 
young priest is a circuit preacher, leading 
services all over the dominion, including 
East Riding, which has no regular 
church. Xavier is only a 4th level cleric, 
but he is convinced that something can 
be done about the current curse on the 
land- He will gladly follow any leader 
who has a solution to the problem . If the 
heir fails and Barzan takes over, Xavier 
will follow him, and be loud in Barman's 
praises when the curse is lifted. 

Herek Plowshare, farmer. Herek is a life 
long farmer, now middle-aged. His farm 
was one of the biggest in the East Riding 
area, but now his outer fields are lying 
fallow because his workers won 1 ! hike 
out to them. He is extremely knowledge 
able about crops and soil. Anything else 
is a mystery to him, and he is so 
befuddled about current events that now 
he spends much of his time at the tavern 
in East Riding, reminiscing about the 
good old days. 

Fend Grey feaiher, elf farmer. This former 
adventurer became corrupted in the eyes 
of his elven kin. The idea of controlled 
growth and harvesting began to appeal 
to him during his adventuring among 
humans. When he decided to retire as a 
7 th level elf, the wild forests of his home 
had no appeal for him. 

Feriel bought orchards in Fenhold and 
settled down to raise citrus fruits. He has 
lived in Fenhold for over a century, and 
enjoys the company of the other farmers 
and orchardmen. The current unpleas 
antness is beginning to inspire his adven 
turing spirit again, though he's done 
nothing about the situation as yet. He 


still has his adventuring gear, including 
chain mail + 2, sword + 1, ring of flight, and 
13 arrows + 1 , 

Johannes Longfurrow, farmer, Johannes is 
a Fenhold farmer who now spends most 
of his time in Fenhold at the Plow and Ox 
tavern, telling all who come nigh that the 
current troubles are entirely due to the 
laxity of the government at Darokin. If 
the government would just send in a 
strong leader who would drain the 
swamp and run out the Fenfoik, invade 
Alfheim, put slave collars on the half- 
lings, and replace Mayor Duchamp with 
a real man (named Johannes), every 
thing would be fine. As it is, the gods of 
Darokin must be punishing them for 
their laxity. 

Merdith Homscraper, dairyman. Merdith 
has been one of the hardest hit by the cur 
rent troubles. His prize bull went mad 
and had to be killed, someone let the 
dairy herd into his garden, some of his 
cows died mysteriously of an uncommon 
disease, Ireak storms made his ground so 
wet that the cows have foot rot, and an 
incredible monster came out of the 
ground and ate three of his cows. 

Merdith is a former adventurer, a 6th 
level fighter. He has seen more of the 
world and how magic works than his con 
temporaries, and can see how some of 
these things could be the work of a 
malevolent design. However, he discard 
ed this theory because he couldn't see 
what anyone would want with Fenhold. 

Delbert Dale wander, local eccentric . 
Delbert pretends to be an ex-adventurer 
driven somewhat mad by his adventures. 
Sometimes he talks about what a great 
fighter he was, then he speaks of using 
magic, and sometimes of sneaking 
around like a thief or healing someone 
like a cleric. Actually he is a 6th level 
thief in the employ of Barzan, spying 
about the dominion. 

Farmlands Encounter Table 
Roll once on the Encounter Table and, if 
the result is 1-5, roll once on the Reac 
tion Table, If the result is 6, roll on the 
Minor Clue Table, 

Such reactions as Has Complaint from 
a Trader can be cither ignored (roll 


12 




FENHOLD 


again) or be considered a challenge to the 
DM*s storytelling ability. 


Idh Encounter 

1 Farmer 

2 Farmer 

3 Fenfolk 

4 Trader 

5 Halfling 

6 Special 


ld6 Reaction 

1 Casual 

2 Hostile 

3 Friendly 

4 Has Lawsuit 

5 Has Rumor 

6 Has Complaint 


Explanation of Reactions 

Casual. Person(s) encountered is non' 
committal and has little to say. ''Good 
day" and "Trifle hot for this time of 
year" is about the extent of his conversa 


tion. 

Hostile Person(s) encountered may or 
may not have anything to say but he is 
obviously hostile to the characters. He 
has had as much as he is going to stand 
from Gereint's foolishness* and no talk 
about a new administration is going to 
persuade them that the characters are 
any improvement. 

Friendly . Some people are just naturally 
friendly others are determined to be 
friendly to the people who are going to 
dean things up after Gereint made a 
mess of things. 

Has Lawsuit. The person encountered 
wishes the Magistrate to act as judge for 
a lawsuit the person is bringing against 
someone else in the dominion. In these 
times of stress, neighbor suspects neigh* 
bor, and the slightest comment or most 
innocent action can touch off a dispute. 
In other lands, these might be settled 
with swords, but the Darokin folk are 
essentially peaceful* and still feel they 
can gain redress through the court of the 
Magistrate. One thing about Gereint; 
when he sat in court he was scrupulously 
fair It seemed like the only time he took 
any time to listen to his citizens. 

Has Rumor Check the Rumor Table 
which appears later. Feel free to toss in 
any other rumors you fed appropriate. 
Roll again on ld3 and compare against 
the Reaction Table to see what sort of 
person has this rumor, A Casual 
encounter mentions it in passing, a Hos 
tile one demands to know what the Mag 
istrate is going to do about it, and the 
Friendly encounter mentions it as some 


thing the Magistrate might want to look 
into. 

Has Complaint This is someone with the 
first stage of a possible lawsuit. If the 
Magistrate can deal with the complaint 
fairly so that it doesn't become a lawsuit, 
add 5 points to the Confidence Level, If 
the Magistrare refuses to hear a com 
plaint, drop the Confidence Level 5 
points. 

The Halfling Hills 

Aside from the human farmers discussed 
above, the hills are primarily the domain 
of the halfling population of the domin 
ion, The halflings maintain small subsis 
tence farms and graze sheep and goats. 
The human farmers claim the sheep and 
goats destroy the pasturage for their 
dairy cattle. 

There are two halfling villages, 
Barnaby-Under-Brain bit and Holly- 
down, each containing about 150 people. 
Like the humans, the halflings leave the 
village in the morning to tend their 
flocks, returning in the evening. The 
halflings used to spend many nights in 
the hills with their flocks, but oflate they 
make a point of returning to the villages 
every night. 

The remaining halflings live in iso 
lated farms elsewhere about the hills. 
Like the village folk, they spend their eve 
nings and nights snug and safe in their 
burrows. 

These halflings are all part of the Ber- 
rybramble Clan of the Five Shires, and 
journey over the mountains to that clan 
holding for dan functions, another prac 
tice which sets them apart From their 
human co-inhabitants. 

Following standard halfling practice, 
the villages do not have mayors. All gov 
ernance is vested in their sheriffs, who 
act as both administrative and law 
enforcement authority. Under each sher 
iff is a Firewatch, a small rotating group 
of volunteers whose main function is to 
watch for forest fires, but can also act as 
deputies to the Sheriff. 

tf called upon for combat, each village 
can provide Id6 1st level halflings 
instantly; their Firewatch force, Given 
lime to muster, the halflings can provide 


16 1st level, 8 2d level, and 5 3d level 
halflings. Each comes with leather 
armor, a dagger, and a short bow with 20 
arrows. Any other weapons and armor 
have to be supplied from the Magis 
trate's armory'. 

Important NPCs 

Oakieaf Green, Sheriff of Holly down. Oak- 
leaf is a bluff, remarkably tall (about 
3'6 H ) halfling who has been Sheriff of 
Holly down for exercises his authority 
with great political acumen, which is just 
as well since he is nothing of a fighter. 

His first answer to any real problem is 
"let the Big Folk take care of it." Since 
Darokin insists on vesting final authority 
in the Magistrate, Oakieaf will shuffle 
any task he can onto the Magistrate and, 
if nothing is done, use the Magistrate as 
a scapegoat to explain why no action is 
taken. 

At this time, Oakieaf s stock in Holly- 
down is very low, since Lord Gereint has 
continually told him, and any other Hol- 
lydown resident, that he would have to 
fend for himself until the new heir 
arrives. Rather than use the coming of 
the new heir as a relief for his problems, 
he blames the new heir for the problems 
because the heir did not get to Fenhold 
sooner. 

Fihhar Bramble t Sheriff of Burnaby-Under- 
Bramble . Filibar is an ex-adventurer who 
stepped in when the previous sheriff died 
mysteriously. His family is the most pres 
tigious in the village, and he took the job 
as his duty as a community leader. 

Filibar is a 6th level halfling with no 
time for foolishness. His brusque ways 
have alienated many of his neighbors, 
but everyone has a high regard for his 
integrity and wisdom. His dealings with 
the heir will be extremely correct, but he 
will volunteer nothing until the Magis 
trate earns his respect. 

Filibar has encountered Barzan 
before, when both were adventurers, 
and knows him to be both Chaotic and 
evil. He has never seen him in Fenhold 
and knows of nothing to connect Barzan 
with the mysterious Wateriord. How 
ever, he is bright enough to be suspicious 


13 



FENHOLD 


if he ever sees Barzan or hears his name 
connected with any mischief. 

Dulcet Sweetsong, shepherdess. Dulcet is 
thought to have named herself. To 
human ears her singing, which she 
breaks into at any excuse, resembles fin 
gernails on a writing slate. 

Dulcet*s avocation is town gossip, 
which she engages in with a fine disre 
gard for the truth or the consequences to 
anyone she gossips about. Her main 
friend in the world is Old Ferdic f see 
below, with whom she exchanges stories. 
If asked, she swears that Old Ferdie is the 
soul of honesty, 

Brogo Bramble f shepherd . Brogo has been 
guarding his flocks for years, and, unlike 
most of his contemporaries, has no inten 
tion of "hiding in a hole just 'cause of 
s^ime dirnwitted spook stories." He also 
has no time for humans, and has to be 
very impressed by the actions of the 
Magistrate before he comes Forward to 
describe the reliability of Ferdibor 
Ales worthy, who once worked for him. 
As you might expect, Brogo found Fer- 
die totally untrustworthy. Brogo has a 
similar low opinion of Dulcet, and simi 
lar reluctance to speak of it to humans. 

Ferdibor Ales worthy, shepherd . Ferdibor, 
called "Old Ferdie " is an itinerant shep 
herd who has worked for all of the fami 
lies of Hollydown at one time or another. 
He is an endless source of stories and 
hints, ail of them misleadin g. He is actu 
ally a semi-retired adventurer, a 5 th level 
halfling, who is employed by Barzan to 
muddy the waters of any investigation 
and report any action of the Magistrate 
that affects the halflings. 

He has no idea of what Barzan is plan 
ning, but enjoys the extra income and 
the chance to be involved in this kind of 
undercover work. 

Hal fling Hills Encounter Table 

Roll once on the Encounter Table and, if 
the result is 1-4. roll once on the Reac 
tion Table, If the result is 5, see Playing 
the Herd below. If the result is 6* roll on 
the Minor Clue Table which appears 
later 

Such reactions as Has Complaint from 
a Trader can be either ignored {roll 


again) or be considered a challenge to the 
DM's storytelling ability. 


Id6 Encounter 

1 Halfling 

2 Halfling 

3 Farmer 

4 Trader 

5 Herd 

6 Special 


Id6 Reaction 

1 Casual 

2 Hostile 

3 Friendly 

4 Has Lawsuit 

5 Has Rumor 

6 Has Complaint 


Reactions, Description of the reactions 
is found under die Farmlands Encount 
er Table. 

Playing the Herd . 

The hills contain many herds of cattle 
and flocks of sheep. While the characters 
will pass many herds on their travels 
which are simply grazing by the side of 
the road, there are situations where they 
can have more interaction with the ani 
mals, See the Herd Encounter Table. 


Herd Encounter Table 

Die roil (ld6) Encounter 

1 Berserk Ram. The ram from a 
local flock of sheep has suddenly 
gone mad ( Barzan 7 s work). The 
problem here is not so much how 
to kill the ram, but how to capture 
it so it can be preserved. 

Ram (AG7; MV 240'; HD 2; hp 9; 
#AT 1; D 1-4; Save as F2). 

2 Berserk Bull. The bull from a 
local dairy farm has broken out of 
his pen and is causing general hav 
oc. He seems to be driven mad, 
just like the ram described above 
(and for the same reason). 

Bull. (AC7; MV 240'- HD 3, hp 
14; #AT 1; D 1-6; Save as F3). 

3 Road Blocked. 


A herd of animals is blocking your 
passage. It looks tike it could take an 
hour before the path is clear. You can 
probably push your way through if 
you want to. 


If the party pushes through, subtract 5 
points from their Confidence Level. If 
they wait patiently, there is no effect. 
Offering to help herd the beasts adds 5 
points to the Confidence Level. 

4 Stampede. 


There is a cloud of dust to your side, 
and you suddenly realize that you are 
hearing the thudding of several hun 
dred hooves. Over the next ridgeline 
comes the tossing horns of the front 
rank of a herd of stampeding cattle, 

Barzan has done it again. His spells 
have summoned every cow for miles 
around and now they are headed for the 
party. If the party turns their horses and 
runs with the herd, give them 350 XP 
each. 

If the party kills cattle to divert them, 
lower the Confidence Level by 5 points. 
Sure, it's not their fault, but the dairy 
farmers arc not going to like this solution 
to the problem. 

If the party can stop the stampede 
without excessive loss of cattle (no more 
than two) raise the Confidence Level by 
5 points. 

Herd Animals (AC 7; MV 240'; HD 2; hp 
8; #AT 1 (trample); D 1-20 (no Hit roll 
needed); Save as Fl) 

5 Wolf Attack. 


You see a young halfling boy running 
pelkndl for you, yelling "Wolf, wolf!" 
When he reaches you, he points up 
the narrow trail he has just run down 
and pants out, "Please help me sirsl 
Wolves attacking my sheep!" 


Racing up the path* the party Finds a 
herd of about 40 sheep being savaged by 
three wolves. Seeing the party, one wolf 
howls, the others answer, and they attack 
the party, It rapidly becomes apparent 
that these are werewolves. 

Mhewohm (3) (AC 5; MV 180'; HD 4*; 
hp 23, 24, 25; #AT I; D 2-8; Save as F3; 
XP 125) 

There should be no problem dealing 
with these werewolves, though the DM 
can add more if he wants a larger batde. 
The [joint here is to show that more than 
natural monsters are at work in these 
hills. 

6 Abandoned Flock or Herd. 

The characters come upon a flock 
or herd with no shepherds or 


14 






FENHOLD 



herdsmen. The animals are wan 
dering aimlessly. 

Backt railing reveals the murdered 
herdsmen. If the herdsmen were human, 
they were slain by halfling arrows, and 
the reverse if the herdsmen were half* 
lings, 

It*s Barman again, stirring up trouble. 
The owners of the animals will demand 
revenge. If the player characters manage 
to stave off a lynching, add 5 to the Con 
fidence Level. 

If they ignore the situation, perhaps 
just returning the animals* they learn the 
next day of a wholeseale hanging of 
cither humans or halflings, whichever 
did not own the animals. 

Lower the Confidence Level by 5 
points and* if they take no further steps, 
lower it by another 5 points. 

The Swamplands, 

There are two kinds of swamp, the 
fringes, known as the Fens, and the inner 
swamp, called the Deep Swamp. As far 
as anyone knows, the Deep Swamp is a 
wilderness filled with giant monsters, 
pits of quicksand, and swarms of insects. 
(The final chapter of this module 
describes the Deep Swamp in more 
detail.) The local people rarely enter the 
Deep Swamp, 

The Fens, however* are another mat 
ter. They are much like the Okefenokee 
Swamp or the Mississippi River Delta in 
the real world; a vast stretch of territory 


that is half-land* half-water Small 
streams wind between low-lying islands, 
then peter out into bogs. Here and there 
are larger streams with enough draft for 
bigger boats, or shallow lakes dotted with 
dumps of trees that rise directly out of 
the water Some of these trees are islands 
in the making; debris and soil lie caught 
around their massive multiple roots, 
poking out of the water and providing 
nesting places for birds and otters. 

Yet, inhospitable as they sound, the 
Fens have their Fenfolk, human beings 
who live in isolated families scattered aB 
along the edges of the Great Swamp. No 
one knows where they came from. When 
Darokin extended its control eastward 
around Alfheim, its explorers found 
them already there, speaking a strange 
dialect of the Common Tongue which 
was barely comprehensible to others. (By 
now most Fenfolk speak standard Com 
mon as well as their own dialect*) The 
Fenfolk dismiss all questions about their 
origins with a shrug; for all they know, 
the swamp bred them as it did the frogs 
and birds. 

The Fenfolk build huts and plant gar 
dens on the larger islands* bui they live 
primarily on their boats, round coracles 
made of hides lashed over wooden 
frames* Even the small children can han 
dle a tiny coracle, and all Fenfolk are 
excellent swimmers. They fish, gather 
edible plants, and trap the eels who live 
in great numbers in the Fens. Since 


smoked eel is a great delicacy in Daro 
kin, they pay their taxes to the Magis 
trate in eels, with fish and fresh 
waterfowl to make up the balance. They 
also trade eels to the farmers and half- 
lings for metal tools, doth, and various 
other things that they can't make or 
gather themselves. 

Small family groups are usually associ 
ated with one or two particular islands, 
but the Fenfolk are always on the move 
in one way or another, whether hunting 
waterfowl, tending their eel-pots, or 
hunting out good supplies of water reeds 
and edible plants* The older people know 
the endlessly shifting fens as well as a 
Darokinian Council member knows the 
city. There are also several permanent 
islands that serve some Fenfolk as graz 
ing places for milk cows and other ani 
mals, or as market and meeting places, 
where the people come together to trade, 
gossip, and generally have a good time. 
At these gatherings the folk compare 
notes on the current water levels and life 
of the ever-changing islands. 

If the characters are to successfully 
track Barzan down to his lair in the Deep 
Swamp, they must have the goodwill and 
cooperation of the Fenfolk* Unfortu 
nately, they are suspicious of Magistrates 
in general and this new heir in particular. 
In other days the local Magistrates have 
always tried to civilize the Fenfolk and 
force them to settle down as farmers 
(though* of course, continuing to check 


15 





FENHOLD 


heir eel-pots)* Every now and then, 
someone talks of draining the fens and/or 
building a causeway to let the trade road 
run straighten and smoother, using magi' 
cal spells as well as shovels* Even the gen 
erally popular Lord Rolph wanted to 
build the causeway, though he wanted to 
allow the Fen folk to keep as much of their 
ancient ways as possible* The FenfoJk 
have heard rumors that the new heir has 
instructions from the Inner Council to 
build the causeway and drain the 
swamp. 

Besides the Fenfolk, a small number of 
criminals, fleeing from one justice or 
another, live out in the margin between 
the Fens proper and the Deep Swamp. 
The Fenfolk keep an eye on them, but 
their basic inclination is to live and let 
live. Only if one of these fugitives tries to 
rob or otherwise harm the Fenfolk is he 
killed or (rarely) captured and brought to 
the Magistrate. Some of the fugitives 
have proved themselves in the eyes of the 
Fenfolk by learning the ways of the Fens, 
and a few were in truth unjustly accused 
of their crimes. If the player characters 
gain the respect of the Fenfolk, they will 
suggest that their friends be given 
amnesty. If the player characters do so, 
give them 10 Confidence Points, 

Fenfolk NPCs 

Old Dauvi. 0-levd human. White-haired 
and frail, Dawi now spends much of his 
time sitting in from of his hut and mend 
ing fishing nets; when he was young, he 
was known throughout the Fens as being 
daring to the point of fool-hardy. He is 
the only person who has ever gone to the 
Deep Swamp and come out again. 

He and his companions, who were 
killed, reached the edge of the drowned 
city and saw buildings under the still 
water. He also saw the velya (see New 
Monsters), who killed his companions. 
After all these years he's vague about the 
distance, but his story jibes with that of 
any of BarzaiTs men who have been cap 
tured and made to talk. He remembers 
the tower sticking out of the water which 
is now Barzan's lain 

Gaidar the Wise. Chief of the Fens. Gold ax 


is only one of the Chiefs, but he is the 
most willing to talk to strangers. Previ 
ously he was a Darokinian citizen 
accused of embezzling funds from the 
Inner Council . He is pretty sure he was 
innocent. However, he will ask strangers 
about the current makeup of the board 
and whether they 4i ever found the money 
they say I took" The player characters 
are very unlikely to have any knowledge 
of this, and Goldar is certainly never 
going to step out of the Fens again, 

Dina Quickpaddle, This fiery little lass is 
the current generation's equivalent of 
Old Davvi. The fact that she is his grand 
daughter might have something to do 
with this. Though untrained, Dina is the 
equivalent of a 3d level Thief. She is the 
Fenfolk most likely to make contact with 
the player characters, as she likes to get 
out of the Fens and see the rest of the 
world, even though she shares the Fen 
folk contempt for dust-eaters. 

Dina has hung on every word her Old 
Dawi has said about the underwater city 
and the tower. Dina has wanted to 
explore this city for years, but doesn't 
want to go without a lot of help, and none 
of her Fen friends is the slightest inclined 
to "chase old DawFs dream " Between 
Davvi's stories and Dina's own knowl 
edge of the Deep Swamp fringes, she 
could probably take a party directly to 
Barzan's lair. 

Fens Encounter Table 
td6 Encounter 

1 Fenfolk 

2 Barzan patrol (See Into the 
Swamp) 

3 Giant Slugs (Sec New Monsters) 

4 Trader 

5 Giant Eds (See New Monsters) 

6 Special 

Rumor and Lore Table 

If on the Farmlands or in the Halfiing 
Hills, roll Id8 and use rumor or lore off 
the Table. If in the Fens, roll ld8 + 4. 

Roll Rumor 

1 The Swamp is getting bigger. 
(True) 

2 The elves want to expand their 
border to the swamp edge, (False) 


3 The Fenfolk have put a curse on 
the dry lands. (Untrue) 

4 The Fenfolk have been here for 
ever* (Not quite) 

5 There are turtles in the swamp that 
can eat a man whole* (True) 

6 The Blue Dancer birds come every 
year at the same time. (True) 

7 There is a dragon in the swamp 
that eats cattle and sheep. (True) 

8 Old Anselm had a vision a few 
months back and he hasn't been 
the same since. (False) 

9 That water mage is still hanging 
around. (True) 

I 0 Old Dawi claims there is a sunken 

city in the swamp. (True) 

II The farmers are cursing the Fen 
folk. (False) 

12 The farmers want to drain the 
swamp completely. (Some do) 

Random Clue Table 

ldfi Clue 

1 Hunters found a campfire in the 
hills with the remains of a giant eel 
that the campers had eaten. 

2 A mysterious freak wave over 
turned a Fenfolk coracle. 

3 There was a man at the general 
store in East Riding recently who 
looked like that magic-user Lord 
Rolph had around three years ago. 

4 Little Jo Danberry saw the ghost of 
his gramma last week, but it disap 
peared when he shied a rock at it. 

5 Old Davvi occasionally spends 
coins like no one around here has 
ever seen before. 

6 Sheriff FUibar at Bamaby-Under- 
Bramble caught a sheep thief a 
while back who turned out to be a 
bandit wanted in Norwald* He was 
part of a larger band led by a fight 
er named Rark of the Northlands. The 
thief was hanged. 


16 



ADVENTURES IN FENHOLD 


DM Notes 

The new heir will not have an easy time 
in Fenhold. Barzan intends to see to that. 
Besides Barzan, other problems lie ahead 
to the test the mettle of the new heir and 
his companions. 

Now is the time to ask the players what 
their plans are. Their main goal is to turn 
Fenhold into a working dominion. The 
way to do this in game terms Is to earn 
Confidence Points. How are they going 
to accomplish this goal? 

The dominion is in a state of genteel 
chaos; there is no central authority. The 
only dominion-level official still around 
is Niall, the Guard Captain, and he is a 
good fighter but poor leader, especially of 
civilians. Many of the usual dominion 
posts are vacant. Check the Players Com 
panion pages 8 and 9 for a list of posts. 
Usually these are filled by NPCs, but in a 
situation like this, one assumes the party 
members take the positions so as to help 
their comrade. 

What of the causeway? Are there engi 
neers in the player party? Perhaps the 
party would like to consult with the elves 
and druids of Alfiieim about the best way 
to build the causeway in harmony with 
nature? Did they anger Alfheim with the 
previous on-the-road encounter? 

The characters will probably use several 
of these methods simultaneously to accom 
plish their goals, and be ready to compli 
cate all of them as much as possible. 

If the characters keep losing Confidence 
Points without gaining any, use some sub 
tle clues, such as comments overheard in a 
crowd, advice from one of the mayors, or 
finally, resort to putting words in the 
mouths of the player characters (if nothing 
else works) to tell the characters they are 
losing the morale of the citizens. 

While the characters are getting see 
ded in, use some of the annoyances to 
keep them from becoming complacent. 
In some cases, there is an almost auto 
matic loss of Confidence Points with no 
chance of restoring them. This is life and 
politics. All they can do is take other 
actions that will restore the people's con 
fidence again. 

All in all, it should take at least four 


game weeks to play the material here. 
When the adventure is over, check the 
Totaling The Points Table to see how 
well the characters are doing in accumu 
lating Confidence Points. 

The Annoyances 

The Noble Zombie 

Shortly after Lord Gereint is buried, 
frightened townspeople will say that he is 
alive again, and walking about the coun 
try. Tracking down the stories, the char 
acters find that Gereint has been turned 
into a zombie. Barzan did this with an 
animate dead spell. Under dose examina 
tion, the characters will discover that 
Gereint T s tomb, in the manor graveyard 
outside the wall, has been broken into. 
The damage has been cleverly con 
cealed, and only a master thief (Mutt, to 
be exact) could have done it. The Magis 
trate loses 5 CP for letting this happen. 

If the characters make sure Gereint is 
cremated then this won't occur. 

The Turbulent Fens 
Fenfolk complain that their boats are 
being upended on perfectly dear, calm 
days. Barzan has conjured a water elemen 
tal and used a permanence spell to keep it in 
existence in the swamp. He set it to work 
overturning boats on a schedule the char 
acters can figure out after a few reports. 
The Magistrate receives 25 CP for elimi 
nating this menace, -5 for every day 
after the first report until it is destroyed. 

The Cursed Cleric 

Visiting Anselm the village deric dis 
guised as a parishioner, Enzo curses the 
poor man by reducing his Intelligence by 
1 point. Then Enzo returns and repeats 
the curse every two days or so. Eventu 
ally, Anselm is barely able to remember 
his prayers and sermons and rhe names 
of his parishioners. The Magistrate loses 
10 CP for allowing this to happen to such 
a well-loved old man, but gains 25 CP if 
he manages to cure him. 

The Traitor Within 

Oieena tries to obtain a job as part of the 

Magistrate's staff (parlor maid, if that's 


all she can get), then use charm person to 
extract valuable information from other 
workers or even some of the characters. 
She also uses the spell to make retainers 
do things which would embarrass the 
Magistrate, commanding them to forget 
she gave them the order in the process. 

If caught, she might take this opportu 
nity to turn traitor to Barzan, which she 
is indined to do (see NPC descriptions). 

The Dragon 

Snagglefang, a large black dragon* is 
roosting in the swamp near the hills 
where the Bamaby-Under-Bramble half- 
lings live. Snagglefang is the cause of the 
loss of some of the halfllngs* sheep and 
the dairymen's cows, and he has been 
sighted a couple times from a distance. 
He is taking advantage of Barzan's reign 
of terror to feed with little fuss. 

Finally, however, just as the characters 
are getting settled into their new jobs, a 
delegation of Fenfolk arrive at the gate. 


The Fenfolk hang on the gate and 
demand entrance. When you let them 
in, they demand "An* what will you 
be doin' about the dragon, eh?" 

When you ask what they are talking 
about, the spokesman says, 4i Thar I 
be, just goin' out to the island what 
holds my milkin' cattle, when this 
boomin' great flying lizard comes 
along and scoops up my Nancy cow 
before my very eyes " 

Further questions elicit the information 
that the Fen man is Gothhold, one of the 
influential chiefs of the Fenfolk. Nancy is 
a prize-winning cow that took first place 
twice in a row at the Festival of the Fens, 
much to the chagrin of the land-dwelling 
human dairymen. If the Fenman hadn't 
seen the dragon with his own eyes, he 
would be it was jealous dusteaters that 
stole it. 

If the characters ignore the dragon ini 
tially, they lose 25 Confidence Points 
immediately, and 5 more per day they 
don't get after the dragon. If the Magis 
trate offers to recompense the Fenfolk for 
the loss of the cows, he gains 10 CP for 


17 





ADVENTURES IN FENHOLD 


paying the proper price, 25 gp each, and 
a CP for every gp over that amount. 
Offering a lesser amount loses 1 CP for 
every gp under the proper amount- 
Promising to track the dragon down 
gains 10 CP Killing the dragon is worth 
50 CP Otherwise removing the menace 
of the dragon is worth 25 CP. 

Snaggle fang, a huge black dragon 
AC -1 
HD 12**** 
hp 80 

MV 150 r (50 , y360 f (120') 

#AT up to 6 

D Bite 2dI0 + 6 daws ld8 + 2 kicks 
ld8 + 2 (only in air) tail ld8*2 
(only on ground) Breath - to cur 
rent hit points 120 # x5 # line 
Save as F24 
Morale 10 
-Alignment: C 
XF 6,100 
Spells: 

First level: charm person, detect magic, 
tight . protection from evil, ventriloquism 
Second level: ESP, mirror image, detect 
invisibility 

Third level: dispel magic 

Treasure: 17,000 cp, 25,000 ep, 33,000 
gp, 20,000 pp, 61 gems at an average 
of 350 gp each, 28 jewelry at an aver 
age of 1370 gp each, hand axe +7, 
charming 

Note that Snagglefang is actually about 
halfway in development between a large 
and a huge dragon. He is full size for a 
huge dragon, it's just that the rest of him 
hasn't grown into the shape. 

Finding Snagglefang 

Snagglefang* s lair is like a crocodile bur 
row; its entrance is under water. The 
dragon comes out every week to hunt* 
Snagglefang's burrow is at Location 7 
on the dominion map. It will take some 
detective work to find it. 

Fighting Snagglefang 

Snagglefang will avoid a fight with more 
than four obvious high level humans if at 
ail possible. If surprised in bis burrow, 
he will break out and take to the air, 


abandoning his treasure. If pursued in 
the air by some of the party, (less than 
four) he will turn to fight. 

If he succeeds in escaping, he may be 
return to rescue his treasure from house, 
probably when he has made sure that 
most of the major inhabitants are else 
where, 

Snagglefang is aware of Barzan *s pres 
ence. Barzan has appeared to him and 
offered to take Snagglefang on as a lieu 
tenant and mount. Snagglefang 
declined, but felt he would be in real 
trouble trying to attack Barzan Barzan 
left peaceably, but promised to return 
once the dominion was rightfully his. 
Snagglefang knows a good deal about 
what Barzan intends, though he has no 
idea where Barzan is, and docs not know 
that Barzan has called himself the 
"Waterford" in other circumstances* 

The Kidnapping 

One foggy dawn, just as the manor is ris 
ing, there is a commotion at the gates. 
Accompanied by most of the fighting 


halflings in his town, aherrifT Oakleaf 
Green of Hollydown is demanding to see 
the Magistrate on a matter of justice. 
Since the sheriff is an important being, 
the players should have their characters 
hurry to the gates to see what's wrong. If 
they don 1 *, subtract 2 CP from their run 
ning total. 

The sheriffs daughter has been kid 
naped* The day before, she went with 
two friends to gather wild mushrooms in 
the hills. Although the friends stopped 
early to rest, Larkfeathcr went farther into 
the hills, where she was abducted by 
human bandits* 

These bandits have now sent a mes 
senger to the sheriff demanding that the 
halflings give them three weeks rations, 
2,000 gp, and horses* Sheriff Green has 
come most honorably to the Magistrate 
instead* 

If the Magistrate refuses to rescue 
Larkfeaiher, the DM should subtract 20 
CP from the total. If the player charac 
ters rescue her* add 20 CP 

The bandits are hiding in location 6 on 
the DM's dominion map, in a ruin. 



18 




ADVENTURES IN FENHGLD 



# ( Brush 


Kidnaping 


.Wall foundation 


Trapdoor- 


Third Level 


Broken 


foingnpr 



m 


Jfgi 



? 


- 1 

 


-i 

* 

-j 

-i 

r 

- 




K 1 




rVN^S- 

 

_ 


i 

 








i 

ii 




- 



* 


% 

Down -J 

n 

1 

_ 1 

- 


_j 

 









 


4 

& 

m ^ 


3 

1 

Pn 

u 


i 

L_ 



) 





- 



This ruin was an outpost of the ancient 
city in the swamp, It is connected to the 
city by a tunnel, unknown to Barzan and 
hb followers. The tunnel is filled with 
water, but Barzan had Jason Darkspdl (see 
below) pul a water breathing on everyone 
in his party and then put a permanence 
spell on it. 

If the characters take the bandits pris 
oner, the highest ranking remaining 
member will bargain for their lives with 
the information that the tunnel can take 
them to the source of all their problems, 
by a way Banian knows nothing about! 

The Bandits 

Dorn Ltmgwalker, 12th level fighter, 
(AC 0; hp 50; #AT 1; D 3-10; MV 120'; 


Save FI2; ML 7; AL N; XP 1,100) sword 
+ f leather + 3, shield + f ring of Jire resist 
ance, 9 gp T 32 sp T 1 gem worth 310 gp 
Marly s Quickblade, 8th level fighter, 
(AC 3; hp 52; #AT 1; D 3-12; MV 120 r ; 
Save F8; ML 8; AL C; XP 650) two- 
handed sword + 2; chain mail +7, 5 pp 
Jason Darkspdl f 8th level magic user, 
(AC 4(2); hp 28; #AT 1; D 2-5; MV 
180'; Save M8; ML 8; ALC; XP 1,200) 
Amulet of Shield*, dagger + l t wand of fire 
balls (9 charges), 14 gp, 15 sp 
Spells; 

First level: charm person, light T magic missile 
Second level: detect invisible, web, mind- 
mask (reverse of ESP) 

Third level: dispel magic , water breathing 
Fourth level- confusion, polymorph others 


* Amulet of Skidd is an amulet that has had 
a shield spell placed on it, and then made 
permanent with a permanence spell. The 
skidd also protects the amulet's wearer. 

Vleieslav Radu f 8th level thief, (AC 3; 
hp 24; #AT 1 (sword or crossbow); D 2-9 
(sword) 1-6 (crossbow); MV 180'; Save 
T8; ML 7; AL N; XP 450) leather + P, 
sword +7, crossbow +5, 12 gp 

Note that Vleteslav is one of the Radu 
family of Specularum (See GAZ 1, Kara- 
meikos). Anyone harming him might 
have a vendetta declared against him by 
this important underworld family in a 
neighboring kingdom. 

Dominick and Olafi 5th level fighters, 
(AC 4; hp 22, 24; 0 AT I (sword or bow); 
D 1-8 (sword) or 1-6 (bow); MV 120'; 


19 







ADVENTURES IN FENHOLD 


Save F5- ML 8; AL C; XP 175) each has 
chain mail, shield, sword and long bow, 

Quintus and Mellisandre x 6th level 
thieves, (AC 6; hp 15, 17; #AT 1 (sword 
or bow); D 1-8 sword or 1-6 bow; MV 
180'; Save T6; ML 7; AL N; XP 225) 
each has leather, sword and bow. 

DM Notes 

Another time to have Sheriff Oakleaf 
appear would be during the Magistrate's 
Erst court, or when the new Magistrate is 
having an introductory gathering. If the 
sheriff is invited and doesn't attend 
because he was searching for his daugh 
ter, this gives the players something to 
speculate about until the truth is discov 
ered, either by the arrival of Oakkaf or 
an investigation by the characters. 

If the player character team seems too 
powerful for Barzan's group to handle, 
leave some of these followers behind to 
holster Rork's group, and let the player 
characters have an easy time with the 
remaining bandits and obtaining the 
dues. 

Alternately* the same statistics can be 
used for more of Rork's followers, per 
haps changing the magical items, if any, 
of the followers* There is no need to 
change any of the primed statistics, as 
chain mail + 2 is the equivalent of leather 
+ 3 and a - 1 adjustment to AG for Dex 
terity, a battleaxe + / does the same dam 
age as a sword + } , and so forth. 

The Festival of the Fens 

This festival is an annual event meant to 
mark the return to the marsh of the Blue 
Dancers, a large member of the swallow 
family which returns to the dominion 
every year at the same time. 

DM Notes 

These birds originally nested in the trees 
which lined the boulevards of the now- 
sunken city where Barzan has his head 
quarters. The birds always cirde the city 
before looking for another nesting place. 
Using speak with animals on any of the 
birds will get directions on how to reach 
the spot they cirde. The birds mention 
the tower, if asked about it. 


The Festival 

There are contests with prizes and vari 
ous shows and entertainments. Often 
high-ranking elves from Alfheim come 
down from the forests, and sometimes 
members of the Inner Council of Daro- 
kin have visited. 

The Usual Program , 

Traditionally, the Festival takes place at 
location 8 on the dominion map. This is 
an area with a wide greensward for a 
tournament and other contests and a 
beach area with a large body of water for 
boating and other contests. 

The festival starts at dawn with 
speeches by all the village headmen who 
want to give them. Then there is enter 
tainment by the local entertainers, 
mostly third rate musicians and singers 
and tumblers, induding Dulcet Sweet- 
song, and whatever wandering enter 
tainers may be passing by or come 
especially for the festival. 

Food is served continuously, usually 
from the storerooms of the Magistrate. 
Children are constantly underfoot play 
ing their own games, or having self- 
judged contests inspired by those of the 
adults around them. Numerous fights 
among the children must be broken up 
throughout the day. 

After the initial welcoming speeches 
by the headmen, other community lead 
ers are expected to speak during the day* 
including the new Magistrate and the 
friends he has appointed to various posts. 

To one side of the site is an open-air 
market. Many traders from other 
dominions make a point of coming to this 
market every year. 

Barzan J r plan 

This is the ideal place for Barzan to make 
his rivals look ineffectual. Barzan* 
Qleena, Enzo, and Murr, and other fol 
lowers will join the festivities as wander 
ing entertainers. Enzo pretends to be a 
simple pilgrim given to portentous pro 
nouncements* Barzan and Oleena pre 
tend to be low level magic-users 
providing entertainments, and Murr 
pretends to be an acrobat. 


Barzan V Dirty Tricks 

Barzan ? s group attempts to mingle with 
the crowd and cause general havoc 
whenever possible. They are aware that 
the Magistrate and his friends arc watch 
ing for such problems, and always work 
to keep themselves out of sight when 
using their spells and abilities. 

Some possible dirty tricks they use are: 

* Barzan, as pan of a magical display, 
casts confusion over an important* and 
armed person. 

* Barzan casts a phantasmal forces of 
one of the huts burning. 

* Barzan summons a water elemental 
and uses it to tip over boats during one of 
the boating events. 

* Enzo casts cause disease on one of the 
leaders of the Fenfolfc. 

m If Enzo is caught, he casts cause light 
wounds on the first person near him. 

* Enzo uses his disguised staff of with 
ering only after Barzan makes a getaway 
which does not include Enzo, 

* Murr steals some item of value from 
one of the Fenfolk and plants it on a half- 
ling or human, or vice versa. 

* Oleena casts sleep on an important 
visiting leader or speaker. 

* Oleena or Barzan casts confusion on 
the performers. 

Finding Barzan 

If Barzan la discovered, he will attempt 
to escape in the underwater boat {see his 
character description), which is 
anchored just under water in the swamp. 
J ust before he leaves he casts meteor swarm 
on the closest collection of buildings to 
cause panic among the members of the 
community. He will leave any of his fob 
lowers behind that can't make it to the 
boat, vowing to return for them* 


20 




INTO THE GREAT SWAMP 


Finding Barzan 

By now the characters should know that 
their main enemy ts Barzan, and have 
several dues on how to find him. If eve 
rything has been done correctly, they 
should know of both the hidden tunnel to 
the center of Barzan's headquarters and 
the general direction of the tower in the 
swamp. 

Characters who can Jly should have no 
trouble finding the tower eventually, and 
guiding their friends to it. However, 
most groups trying to reach the tower 
will have to travel through the swamp. 

Traveling through the Swamp 

The Deep Swamp is a morass of ever 
changing blind waterways, snags chat 
could tear a boat apart, and strange crea- 
tures. The characters have to cross 10 
miles of swamp lo reach the tower, and 
that takes five hours of travel. 

Roil Id6 for each hour of travel. A roll 
of 1-2 means that the DM should roll 
once on the Deep Swamp Encounter 


Table, Most of the monsters are 
described in the New Monsters section of 
this book. The Barzan patrol consists of 
one of his top aides, Rork f Enzo, or 
Gicena, and a half-dozen followers. If 
Rork is leading, there is a magic-user, 
otherwise they arc all fighters. 

If confronted by prepared, well-armed 
group of adventurers, the patrol returns 
to the tower, using previously established 
byways that the characters do not know 
of, thus returning in time to warn Barzan 
that company is coming. If the patrol 
happens on the remnant of a force, per 
haps already decimated by one or more 
of the other monster encounters, they 
attack. Their tactics are to sink any sur 
viving boats and then kill the characters 
in the water Remember that all of Bar 
zan's people have water breathing spells 
with permanence on them. 

If the characters chance on the velya (see 
the Deep Swamp Encounter Table)! and 
do not succeed in kill i ng him, news of their 
presence gets hack to Barzan through the 
velya he T s befriended. 


Deep Swamp Encounter Table 

ld6 Encounter 

! Giant Eels 

2 Velya 

3 Barzan Patrol 

4 Giant Swamp Snapping Turtle 

5 Nekrozon 

6 Giant Swamp Slug 

Barzan's Lair 

Barzan is hidden in a tower that rises out 
of the swamp (see map). The tower is 
covered with moss, and there is no sign 
of life except for the guards who pace on 
the balcony that circles the fifth floor of 
the lower. 

The first floor is entirely submerged, 
and the water seems to rise as high as 
midway up the second floor. 

Inside, a visitor sees that not much has 
been done to make the place homey. The 
centuries have left their mark on this 
tower, and Barzan's people have done lit 
tle to improve it* The leaders have spent 
most of their time around the dominion, 
causing trouble,, and the followers have 



21 






INTO THE GREAT SWAMP 



little incentive to repair the tower when 
their leaders are away. 

The Rooms 

1. The Gate Room. This was originally the 
main entry hall of the building. The cre 
ators of the gate to the Plane of Water 
placed it where the room widens out. 
Now it also serves as the docking area for 
Barzan's underwater boat. If Rarzan is in 
the tower, the boat is here, facing the 
always open door* ready for a quick exit, 
2 , These rooms are all disused and full of 
water There are numerous cracks in the 
walls which let in all manner of small 
swamp life. 

3. This stairway leads to the upper sto 
ries. Coming from the undersea boat dock, 
inhabitants usually swim until they reach 
dry steps on the second level, then walk. 

4, This is where the tunnel leading to the 
bandits* lair begins. Barzan does not 
know of its existence. 

5- Stairwell leading to the first and third 
floors. The water Alls the room to about 
halfway up the stairs. 

6. This room has been magically cleared 
of all water, and is ready to be used to 
drain water out of the stairwell if Barzan 
thinks it necessary, 

7. This room, too, is empty of water and 
can be used as a water drain if need be. It 
also has a ladder which can be used for 
access to the next higher level. 


8, These rooms are full of water, and can 
be used to flood the level if Barzan con 
siders it expedient. Anyone opening a 
door to these rooms is immediately inun 
dated with water, and all the doors to the 
other Room 8s open as well. 

9, This is the stairwell leading to the sec 
ond and fourth floors. To the east is a 
door opening on to a shaft with a ladder, 
which also leads to the fourth floor. 
There are generally two guards stationed 
here at all times, 

10, This is the guardroom for the floor. 
Four guards use it as a ready room in 
case they are needed to support the 
guards in room 9 or 13. The room is fur 
nished with a table and chairs (there are 
usually playing cards and about 20 sp 
and 50 cp in table stakes at any given 
time), and commodes and closets on the 
eastern wall. 

11, This bare room is full of water The 
water is there so that Barzan or Oleena 
can cast a conjure water elemental spell on it. 
Rork (see room 12) thinks that its func 
tion is to aid him if he is under attack. 
Actually it will attack everyone in Room 

12 , 

Water elemental (AC -2; HD 16; hp 75; 
Move 60' (20'); #AT 1 or special; D 3-24 
(plus 1-8 in water); save as Fighter 16; 
Morale 10; AL N; XP 1*350) 

12. Rork's room. If the tower is invaded 
and he is aware of it, Rork goes from 
here to Room 9 to support his guards. 
The room is furnished with what little 
loot Rork could bring from the North 
lands, much of which is mildewed now. 
The fabrics and other hangings here 
would fetch perhaps 2,000 gp on the 
open market. In a small chest under his 
bed, Rork keeps his getaway money of 30 
gems with an average value of 250 gp, 
and a muzzle of training. 

13. This room has two guards who watch 
the ladder up from the second floor. 

14. This stairwell leads to the third and 
fifth floors, 

15. This room is a stairwell guard room 
which is generally empty. If the guards in 
rooms 9 and 10 are sorely pressed, they 
retreat here to defend the stairwell. 

16. This is Ertzo's chapel to the chaotic 
immortal of sea and storm that he wor 


ships. On the east wall of the room is an 
altar with a representation of an amor 
phous creature with several heads and 
tentacles. The room is lit by a continual 
light spdl and otherwise unfurnished. 

17. This room's main function is to hold 
the commodes for Enzo and anyone 
using the temple lor worship. There arc 
torches at the doors to supply light, 

18. This is Enzo's room. It is lit by a con 
tinual light spell, and sparsely furnished 
with whatever he has been able to scare 
up. Much of the furniture is made of 
stone and looks like it has been under 
water for centuries, which it has, Enzo 
has spent many days searching the ruins 
of the drowned city for usable items. 
Most of it is carved in ways and motifs 
unknown today, and the furniture itself is 
probably worth 10,000 gp to a collector 
of antiquities, (A few can be found in 
Darokin.) 

Enzo keeps his personal fortune in a 
secret compartment in the ornately 
carved throne-like chair Enzo sits in 
when entertaining visitors. There are 
300 gp, 50 pp, and a complex piece of 
neck and chest jewelry worth 30,000 gp. 

On the east wall is a ladder leading 
down to level three. Guards cut off from 
the stairwell during an attack can use the 
ladder to gain the next level. Enzo dis 
courages its use for anything else. 

19. This concealed room has not been by 
Barzan or his minions. It is a remnant 
from the original inhabitants. Inside are 
two bronze golems whose function is to 
defend the paintings stacked in racks 
behind them. Unfortunately, mildew has 
already attacked the paintings and they 
are worthless, though this is not obvious 
until one holds one of the paintings and 
examines it. Visitors to the room must 
give the long forgotten password or be 
attacked when they have fully entered 
the room. 

Bronze golems (2) (AC 0; HD 20"; hp 
100; MV 240 r (80 r ); #AT 1 fist + special; 
D 3-30 + 1-10 from interior heat; Dam 
aged only by magical weapons or magic, 
edged weapon user must make saving 
throw vs death or take 2-12 from Fiery 
blood; immune to sleep , charm, hold , and 
Fire-based spells; save as Fighter 10; 


22 




Fourth Floor 


Sixth Floor 


Fifth Floor 


Secret door 


Ladder 


J C Q > Table 
9 Q Latrine 
cl Closet 


-o- Door 
I'rr'l Altar 


2^ Spiral staircase 

-Curtain 

-G- Concealed door 


swamp bed 


















INTO THE GREAT SWAMP 


Morale 12; AL N; XP 4,300 each) 

20. This is the stairwell leading to the 
fourth and sixth floors. It is also the liv 
ing space of Muit the Weazel, Barzan T s 
chief thief. Murr shares the room with 
another thief, a female who is identical to 
the 6th level thieves shown elsewhere. 

The room is sparsely furnished, and 
has a door leading to the troops' barracks 
and another door to the balcony that 
encircles the tower. When home, Murr 
can usually be found in this room, sharp 
ening his knives and sword and planning 
new* plunderings. 

Muir's personal treasure is cleverly 
hidden under a riser on the stairway in 
his room. It consists of a bag of holding 
with 650 gp and 150 pp and 20 matched 
gems, each w-orth 50 gp (a total of 1,000 
gp), or 5,000 gp as a set. 

21. This is Oleena's room, which she 
shared with Jason Darkspel! until his 
defection. The room has a tapestry on 
the south wall that Oleena wove herself, 
depicting aquatic scenes, 

Oleena 1 s personal treasure is under 
her bed, and consists of 500 gp, 25 pp, a 
ring worth 600 gp, a necklace worth 
2,000 gp, and a chime of time, 

22. These are Barzan T s personal quar 
ters, and contain an entrance into 
Oicena's room, one into the barracks, 
and one to the outside balcony There is 
also a secret door to room 24. Barzan's 
rooms are painted (most of the others are 
bare stone with moss) an aquamarine 
shade. None of Barzan's personal trea 
sure is in this room. 

23. These barracks are used by the 
guards not on duty on the third floor 
below. The group that defected also used 
some of these beds. Hidden among the 
belongings of the troops are an average 
of 30 ep, 100 sp # and 25 cp each. 

24. This secret room is full of water. Bar 
zan will use it to conjure a water elemen 
tal if he needs the assistance. An invisible 
stalker appears in the room die minute the 
elemental leaves, commanded there 
through a pact from long before. 

The room contains Barzan's personal 
treasure: a watertight chest holding 200 
gems worth a total of 30,000 gp, all aqua 
marines, pearls, and other gems associ 


ated in one way or another with water, 
and two crowns stolen from merman 
royalty worth 50,000 gp each (or 250,000 
gp in pearls and such to the merpeople), 

25, This balcony goes all the way around 
the tower. There are always four guards, 
each 90 degrees apart on the balcony. 

26, This is the stairwell to the fifth floor 
There arc always two guards stationed 
here to guard against attack from above, 

27, This is a ready room for reinforce 
ments for the guards in Room 26. 

28, This room houses more of Barzan's 
guards: outlaws who rode with Rork + 
there are eight guards living here. 

29, This secret room has never been 
found by Barzan's group. It holds the 
mol dering remains of many top-secret 
government documents from the era 
before the city drowned. 

30, R ark's current second-in-command, 
Ferris SUelsoul, lives here and commands 
the top floor guard. He also controls the 
access to the troop's treasure room. 

31, This room has been given to the out 
laws to hold their full treasure in com 
mon, It is full of small bags and chests, 
each marked in some fashion with the 
identifying sign of an outlaw. There are 
20 of these containers (the ones belong 
ing to the defectors were opened and the 
loot redistributed to the others). Each 
contains the equivalent of 1,000 gp in 
various coins and gems. 

32, Commode room. 

Barzan's Tactics 

When the characters reach the tower, 
Barzan will be in one of two states of 
alertness. He may be expecting an 
attack, but be uncertain of when because 
he has had no notice of their coming; or 
he will know they are coming and be 
awaiting the characters. 

The only difference in the situations 
when the characters attack will be wheth 
er some of the guards are still in the ready 
rooms, or all are at the guard positions. 

Otherwise, his plans depend on where 
the characters are coming from. In any 
case, he will never leave the tower which 
guards the gate to the Plane of Water, 
even though it might be the best tactic. 

1. From Above. If the characters attack 


from the sky, using fly spells, devices, or 
mounts, Rork, Oleena, and the guards 
attempt to knock them from the sky, then 
retreat floor by floor, doing as much 
damage as possible, 

2. From the Tunnel If the characters attack 
from die tunnel, Barzan will be unaware 
of them until they reach the gate room. 
His immediate reaction will be to force 
them out of that room , preferably luring 
them upstairs where they can be engaged 
without endangering the gate, 

3, From the Surface. If the characters arc 
depending on boats, Barzan will add his 
magic to Oleena's to attempt to overturn 
the boats. In the meantime, any of Bar- 
zaii *s guards who is struck will pretend to 
be dead and fall into the water, then use 
dieir ability to breathe underwater to 
attack the the characters. 

4. Invisible Approach. At least one out of 
every guard group has had a detect invisi 
ble cast on him and kept there with perma 
nence. Invisible approaching characters 
are spotted before they reach the tower 

5, Total Surprise. If the characters some 
how surprise the guards, the thieves will 
attempt to cither fill attackers full of 
arrows, if they are at a distance, or climb 
the walls and wait for opportune backs, if 
they are in a position to work an ambush. 
The fighter guards engage the characters 
to keep them busy while the main villains 
try to do away with them. Given the 
opportunity, Oleena surrenders immedi 
ately and tells all. If all seems totally lost, 
but Barzan is still free, he tries to reach 
the gate and immigrate to the Plane of 
J4ter. Murr runs at the first opportunity, 
while Rork and Ferris fight to the death. 


24 


ENDING THE ADVENTURE 


When Barzan is destroyed, the adven 
ture is effectively aver There are more 
things to do in the Dominion of Fenhold, 
but doing them passes beyond the pur 
view of this book. See Further Adven 
tures section. 

At the time of Barzan's demise, the 
characters will have been In Fenhold 
only one month (or thereabouts). How 
ever, because of die importance of these 
past few weeks, a Confidence Check is 
calkd for to determine what the popula 
tion thinks of their new Magistrate, 


Totaling the Points 

Beginning: 225 

Elves Attack and are killed: - 10 

Elves Attack and are sent back to 
Alfheim: "5 

Search for Gereint: + 5 

Handle Servants well: + 5 

Tyrannize Servants: - 5 

Bring Anselm back to vigor: + 20 

Firing Anselm: - 20 

Successfully deal with complaint: + 5 
Ignore complaint: - 5 

Push through herd: - 5 

Help herd: + 5 

Kill stampeding cattle: - 5 

Stop stampeding cattle: + 5 

Destroy werewolves: +5 

Stop lynching: + 5 

Ignore lynching: - 5 

Do not investigate lynching: ^5 

Gereint becomes zombie: - 5 

Every day water elemental attacks 
boats: ^5 

Destroying water elemental: + 25 

Anselm is cursed: - 10 

Anselm is cured: +25 

Handling the Dragon: 

Recompensing the farmer: + 10 

paying over normal price: +i/gp 

paying under normal price: - !/gp 

Tracking the Dragon: +10 

Destroying the Dragon: +50 

Magistrate kills Dragon: +10 

Driving away the Dragon : + 25 

Rescuing Larkfeathcr 
Ignoring halflings at gate: -2 

Refuse to rescue: -20 

Rescue Larkfeather: +20 

Festival of the Fens 


Any unpunished Barzan act: - 2 

Barzan T s Lair 

Driven Away by Barzan: - 15 

Finding Barzan: +5 

Killing Barzan: + 15 

Removing Barzan: +10 

Each party member Jos! forever: - 5 


Final Total 

If the final total is less than 2 30, Darokin 
will find another Magistrate, whether 
Barzan is still alive or not. 

If the final total is 230-269 (Average) 
Darokin will retain the character in his 
office, but keep an eye on him. 

If the final total is 270 (Steady) or 
more, Darokin retains the character in 
office and leaves him pretty much to his 
own devices. The character's recommen 
dations as to friends who should get 
dominions will be seriously considered. 

Further Adventures 

Now that Barzan and his followers have 
been dealt with, what lies ahead for the 
character who now rules the dominion of 
Fenhold? 

Uneasy Alfheim 

Alfheim is rethinking its relationship 
with Darokin and the dominion. Origi 
nally Alfheim had no objection to Daro 
kin claiming the territory surrounding 
Alfheim, In fact, the elves liked having 
another nation acting as buffer between 
[hem and the rest of the world . 

Over the last century; most of the 
dominions possible in the strip of Daro 
kin which encircles Alfheim have been 
occupied. The elves now wonder if Daro 
kin intends to start encroaching on the 
forests of Alfheim in a search for addi 
tional farmland? 

This is a question for the DM (o 
resolve for his own campaign. Look for 
the upcoming GAZ 5, Alfheim, for more 
information on the Alfheim side of the 
matter. Even without this source, there 
are adventures that can be run using just 
the information available. 

Here are few springboards for future 
adventures. 


The Hunters 

The elves of Alfheim are primarily 
hunters. The northern boundary of 
Fenhold runs right into Alfheim, and the 
boundaries of Fenhold and Alfheim are 
nebulous, to say the least. 

Now a new tribe of elves has set up a 
stronghold near the border They are 
pursuing their intended targets into 
Fenhold, shooting the occasional cow or 
sheep in the process, seemingly more for 
a joke than mistaking them for legitimate 
prey 

A deputation sent into Alfheim to stop 
these incursions must first find the new 
stronghold, then deal with its clan leader, 
who is either the leader of the dven 
ambush at the start of this adventure, or 
a dose relative if that elf was killed* 

The dan leader will do his best to 
humiliate any human or other non-elf 
sent to talk to him, and to persuade any 
elf that he should change sides either 
overtly or covertly. 

Any attack by the deputation will be 
met with an attack, and then the elves 
fade into the brush. The Magistrate is 
faced with a continuing guerilla war on 
his border. 

The Monster 

The elves like to hunt monsters and 
therefore, they do not take the trouble to 
root out chaotic creatures in their areas. 
Instead, they just hum them to keep the 
numbers down and provide some exdte- 
meat. 

The occasional monster will venture 
from the forests of Alfheim to ravage 
some crops or croptenders, then fade 
back into Alfheim* By treaty official 
forces of Darokin cannot pursue such 
creatures into Alfheim. This includes the 
Magistrate's private army. Of course, if 
the Magistrate and his friends just want 
to go hunting, they can do so, 

Alfheim does keep an eye on hunting 
parties loaded down with magic and 
armor. This doesn't fit their idea of fair 
hunting. Unless the party wants to try to 
sneak Into Alfheim, virtually impossible 
thanks to the dven empathy with the ani 
mals of the forest, they will have to fit 
elven ideas of proper hunter gear. 


25 



ENDING THE ADVENTURE 


The Invasion 

If the halflings of the dominion are 
downtrodden by the humans, they might 
look for some other masters to help them. 
Halflings have always admired elves. A 
particularly human-centric administra 
tion could cause a dan of elves entering 
the administration in order to aid their 
small friends* 

The final resolution of these disputes, 
all of which hark back to the tension 
between Darokin and Alfheim, and how 
much this will have to do with Fenhold is 
up to the individual DM. 

The Sunken City 

Another plot thread left for the Magis 
trate of Fenhold is the sunken city that 
Barzan took for a headquarters. We do 
not supply a map of it, leaving that as an 
exercise for the DM. There are a number 
of questions left as exercises for the play 
ers. 

Origins 

Where did this city come from? Is it as 
old as Blackmoor, or a relative new 
comer, only about a thousand years old? 
This depends on what the DM wants, If 
it dates from the Blackmoor period, it 
might contain some vestiges of the 


strange technology that eventually 
doomed Blackmoor and its allies. 

Explorations 

The city is large, and it may be tenanted 
by more than the velya mentioned earli 
er Moreover, it was drowned quickly, 
with little chance for people to escape. 
The Fen folk are descendants of survivors 
who were out of the city when it 
drowned. 

This means that there arc quite likely 
untold riches and adventures down 
there, ready for the DM to chart and the 
characters to investigate* It's an ideal 
place for some underwater adventures. 

Clearing the Swamp 

One thing that the Magistrate will know 
after the adventure is over is that the 
swamp is entirely artificial,, and would 
e ventually d ry up if the gate is closed. Do 
the player characters want to do this? 

Taking such an action arouses aU of the 
antagonism that has made the dominion 
such an interesting place to live m so far 
There isn't much of a chance for combat, 
but the political infighting could be fasci 
nating for a relatively small gaming 
group* 

Drying up the swamp makes the 


straighter route for the trade road possi 
ble, without a causeway* It also destroys 
the life of the Fenfolk. It might also make 
the area too dry to maintain the lush 
farmlands the farmers prefer, though few 
of them would have thought of such a 
thing* 

If the Magistrate decides to just dose 
the gate and let the swamp die olT, it 
would take about twenty years or more* 
This would arose the ire of, among oth* 
ers, delicacy importers who depend on 
the eel trade. This could be a major chal 
lenge to both DM and players' role play 
ing skills. 

The Alternatives 

Without Barzan to interfere, the Magis 
trate could let the gate remain open and 
simply use magic such as wall of stone and 
lower water and other magics to create a 
causeway that could be used and still leave 
the Fenfolk most of their way of life* 

Instead of a causeway, he could also 
just bridge the islands and create a more 
costly road for the traders, It could create 
jobs for the Fenfolk in maintaining the 
bridges, All this expense would probably 
put the dominion in the red for ten years 
or so, but then the various tolls for the 
bridges would start to provide a profit. 



26 








NEW MONSTERS 


Some of the following monsters are simi 
lar to ones previously published in TSR 
publications. However* their restricted 
environment in the Fenhold swamp, cut 
off from most other swamp creatures, 
has made them somewhat different. Oth 
er monsters encountered, such as the 
crocodiles summoned by velya, are 
exactly the same as those described in 
other publications. 

Giant Swamp Eel 

Armor Class: 5 
Hit Dice: 6 
Move: 180' (60') 

Attacks: 1 bite + special 
Damage: 2-16, drowning 
No. Appearing: 0{1) 

Save as: Fighter 3 
Morale: 9 
Treasure Type: Nil 
Alignment: Neutral 
XP Value: 500 

About 20 feet long, giant swamp eels are 
black on their upper side and grayish 
green on the lower. They live in the riv 
ers and open water of freshwater swamp. 
Although basically only vicious preda 
tors, they possess a certain amount of 
animal cunning. They are the same 
breed as the common swamp eels, but 
they have lived long enough to grow 
gigantic, and have gained wisdom in the 
process. 

They prefer to lurk unseen in thick 
water weeds, then leap upon their prey; 
they have been known to tail a boat for 
hours until one of the boatmen looked 
careless. When attacking, they attempt 
to bite their prey. If successful, they 
thrash, a convulsive movement that 
drags the prey underwater, where it 
begins to drown as the eels swims away. 
Although they have no treasure, a giant 
eel provides a lot of valuable meat, 
though connoisseurs of eel meat feel that 
the meat loses delicacy as the animal that 
bears it gets larger. VVhen pickled or 
smoked for the luxury trade, a typical 
giant eel is worth 2,000 gp. 


Giant Freshwater Slug 

Armor (Jlass: 6 
Hit Dice: 3 
Move: 60' (20') 

Attacks: 1 bite + special 

Damage: ld6 + 1, ramming (see below) 

No, Appearing: 0(1) 

Save as: Fighter 1 
Morale: 3 

Treasure Type: Nil (but see below) 
Alignment: Neutral 
XP Value: 50 

This slimy grey scavenger lives in 
swamps and fen lands, where it fills an 
important ecological niche by eating eve 
rything too disgusting for any other crea 
ture to eat. Although it needs air to 
breathe, it slides along underwater for 
long periods while it scrapes its meals off 
stream bottoms with its mouthful of 
sharp, inward-pointing teeth. Although 
it never attacks unless provoked, it does 
have an extremely dangerous habit. 
Whenever it needs to breathe, it rises 
straight up out of the water without both 
ering to look first to see if there are any 
boats m the way. Any small boat, up to 
10 feet in length, so inadvertently 
rammed will be capsized unless its skip 
per rolls his Dexterity or less on 8d6 + For 
boats between 10 and 20 feet, the roll is 
made on 5d6; between 30 and 40 Feet, 
3d6. Boats larger than 40 feet are merely 
bounced around in an irritating way; for 
instance, if a magic-user were trying to 
cast a spell at that moment, his concen 
tration would be broken and the spell 
lost. If a giant slug is killed and cut open, 
there is a 10% chance thai its stomach 
contains a gem, gold item, or 2d6 +1 
gold coins. All other metals dissolve in 
the slug's corrosive stomach juices. 


Swamp Velya 
Armor Glass: 3 
Hit Dice: 7** 

Move: 180'(60') 

Attacks: i touch or special 
Damage: 1-8 or special 
No. Appearing: 0 (1) 

Save As: Fighter: 9 
Morale: It 
Treasure Type: F 
Alignment: Chaotic 
XP Value; 1,250 

This weak form of underwater vampire 
was once common to the city that now 
lies under the swamp. Fora few centuries 
after the city drowned, die velya flour 
ished, but the lack of visitors to the 
swamp caused them to turn on each oth 
er, and now- only a few are left. 

Because they are undead, they are 
unaffected by sleep, charm , and hold spells 
and can only be hit by magical weapons. 
A swamp velya can take the form of a 
blue-skinned human with gills, an albino 
crocodile, a white eel, or a water current 
at will. Each change takes one round* 

Whatever its form, a velya regenerates 
2 hit points per round (except for fire or 
acid damage) as soon as it is damaged. If 
a velya is reduced to 0 hit points it does 
not regenerate, but becomes a water cur 
rent and flees to its crypt, where it must 
rest the whole day. Fire and acid damage 
is not regenerated until the velya rests in 
its crypt. 

In crocodile or eel form, the velya's 
movement, attacks, and damage are 
those of the animal. The velya's AC t hit 
dice, morale, and saving throws remain 
unchanged. In water form, a velya can 
not attack, but can swim at 180 1 per turn 
and is immune to all weapon attacks. 
Some spells affect it, none do damage. 

In human form, a velya may attack by 
song or touch, or may summon other 
creatures. The touch of a velya inflicts an 
energy drain, removing one level of 
experience, in addition to damage. The 
creature's song can charm (as the spell). 
Any victim hearing the song must save 
vs. spells or be charmed. The song can be 
heard up to a mile away, but it will only 
charm within 200 feet of the velya. 


27 





NEW MONSTERS 



Once a successful saving throw is 
made, that character is immune to the 
velya's song for 24 hours. If the charm is 
dispelled, the character is still susceptible 
to the velya's song until he makes a sav 
ing throw. 

The velya can summon 3-18 croco- 
diles if they are within one mile. The 
crocodiles will arrive in I -4 rounds if they 
are close by. 

Any character slain by a velya will 
return from death in three days as a 
wight under the control of the velya. A 
creature can only become a velya 
through an ancient and forgotten curse. 

A velya will not come within 10 feet of 
a strongly presented religious symbol, 
though it may move to attack from 
another direction. Swamp velya cannot 
come fully into the open air or they 
instantly disintegrate. As long as one 
part of their body is in the swamp, they 
remain intact. 

During the day the velya must rest in 
its sunken grave or crypt. If the grave is 
blessed with the clerical spell, the velya 
can get no rest there that day. Failure to 
rest results in 2-16 points of damage per 
day. These points are not regenerated 
until the velya rests in its crypt a full day. 
Velya cast neither reflection nor shadow. 

A velya can be destroyed by exposing 
it to air, driving a wooden stake through 
it while it lies in its crypt, or being turned 
by a 13th or higher level cleric. The die 
roll for the number of hi t dice of undead 


destroyed must equal or exceed the hit 
dice of the velya. 

One of the swamp velya has 
befriended Barzan and lurks around his 
tower. The other velya report any move- 
ment they see to this one. 

Giant Swamp Snapping Turtle 

Armor Class: 0 
Hit Dice: 20 
Move: 30' (10 f ) 

Swimming: 90' (30 1 ) 

Attacks: 1 bite + special 

Damage: 6*36 

No. Appearing: 0(1) 

Save As; Fighter: 12 
Morale: 10 
Treasure Type: Nil 
Alignment: Neutral 
XP Valuer 4,175 

This ornery swamp creature can be mis 
taken for a dragon turtle at a glance, 
though it is smaller and actually has few 
dragon traits. Among other things, it 
does not collect treasure nor does it 
breathe anything. 

However, like a purple worm, if its 
attack roll is 4 or more over what it needs 
to hit its target, or a 20 in any case, crea 
tures of mansize or smaller are swallow 
ed whole, taking 3-18 points of damage 
each round thereafter. 

The main tactic of the giant snapping 
turtle is to wait by a main waterway, 
looking like a hummock of ground. As a 


boat passes, it snaps its head out of the 
shell and reaches as much as 30 r for one 
of the occupants of the boat. Once it has 
either taken a bite out of a victim or swal 
lowed him whole, its head snaps back 
into the shell and it depends on its 
armored back For protection, 

Nekrozon 

Armor Class: 7 
Hit Dice: 7** 

Move: 60' (20 1 ) 

Attacks: I Tail/ I Gaze (possible) 
Damage: 1-6 + special; gaze: special 
No. Appearing: 0(1-3) 

Save As: Fighter: 4 
Morale: 8 
Treasure Type: C 
Alignment: Neutral 
XP Value: 1,250 

This monster is described in the Master 
DM'* Book and is repeated here in case 
you don't have that book. It is found 
only in the wilderness, usually in 
swampy areas. The terrible nekrozon 
resembles a huge buffalo with a boar's 
head on a long neck. It attacks with the 
bony tip of its long tail, and in addition to 
the damage done, the victim has a 50% 
chance of falling over, stunned for 1-6 
rounds T 

The gaze of a nekrozon is a 60' long 
magical death ray. If it looks at anyone, 
the victim must make a saving throw vs. 
death or die immediately. Fortunately, 
there is only a 1 in 4 chance that the 
nekrozon will look up when encoun 
tered; this chance is also checked each 
round of combat. Even then, it can only 
gaze at one victim per round. It never 
looks straight up. Anyone looking 
directly at its eyes will die without even a 
saving throw. Few are this foolish, but 
complete surprise (1 on Id6) indicates 
that someone (determined randomly) 
has accidentally done so. 

The nekrozon is immune to energy 
drains, death rays, and all spells and 
attack forms causing instant death, 
including disintegrate except through 
points of damage. 


28 



NPC STATS 


Pre -Generated 
Player Characters 

Lord Hugh of Redlands, 16th level lord 
STR 17 TNT 9 WIS 12 THAGO 6 
DEX 10 CON 14 CHA 15 AL L 
AC -1 

hp 81 

Languages: Common, Lawful 
Equipment: plate armor + 3 (cures wounds), 
shield, bastard sword + 1, + 3 versus giants t 
INT 9, EGO 3, detect magic, detect gems, 
detect shifting walls and rooms, heavy crossbow 
+ /, quarrels + 3 (7), boots of traveling and 
leaping, ring of remedies , hag of holding, 
potion of haste 3 doses 
Hugh is an affable, soft-spoken man. He 
has the common sense to know he lacks a 
ready wit, but he does have a good 
instinct for what is fair and just. Since 
has faced so much grim danger in his 
time, he has an almost eccentric love of 
entertainment, particularly of bards, 
acrobats, and jesters. Lord Hugh is 
exceptionally generous to his friends, but 
ruthless to his enemies. 

Hugh is a native of Darokin, and his 
family has often served on the Council, 
though his branch of the family have 
been simple fighters for several genera 
tions. Councillor Arnulf, for instance, is 
a cousin of his, though they have never 
met. 

Athel the Deep One, 

18th level magic-user 

STR HINT 17 WIS 9 THACO 12 

DEX 12 CON 11 CHA 6 AL L 

AC 6 

hp 29 

Languages: Common, Lawful, Elf, 
Hal fling 

Equipment: ring of protection + 3 t potion of 
healing (5 doses), carpet of flying, helm of 
telepathy , dagger + l 
Spell Book: 

First level: detect magic, light, magic mis - 
silc } protection from evil, read languages f 
read magic, shield , sleep , memorize 6 
Second level: continual light, detect invisi 
ble, knock, levitate, mirror image , phantas 
mal force, web, wizard lock, memorize 5 
Third level: clairvoyance, dispel magic, 
fireball, infravision, lightning bolt t water 


breathing, memorize 5 
Fourth level; charm monster, confusion, 
dimension door, ice storm/wall, polymorph 
self, remove curse, memorize 4 
Fifth level: cloudkill, dissolve, pass-wall, 
teleport, wall of stone , memorize 4 
Sixth level; disintegrate, lower water, move 
earth, projected image memorize 3 
Seventh level: delayed blast fireball, lore, 
power word stun, memorize 2 
Eighth level: Mind barrier 

Athel got his name from his habit of 
always keeping his thoughts to himself. 
Unless he's asked a direct question, he 
never speaks of personal matters, only of 
things directly related to the matter on 
hand. He lives simply, spending all his 
treasure on magical research; his one 
real passion in life. Although Athel 
would never admit it, he admires Hugh 
and will be glad to help him anytime the 
lord needs him. Being the Magist for 
Hugh's dominion would fulfill many of 
his dreams. 

Athel is a self-made wizard who had 
little instruction in the magical arts. He 
despises wizards who come from the 
magical schools ofGlantri. 

Alys the Cheerful, 16th level cleric 
STR 13 INT 11 WIS 17 THACO 10 
DEX 9 CON 13 CHA 10 AL L 
AC 0 
hp 55 

Languages: Common, Lawful 
Equipment: plate armor + 2 (reflection), 
mace +2, ring of quickness (1 haste per day). 


staff of healing (19 charges), helm of reading , 
slate o f identification, bag of holding, potion of 
giant strength (1 dose), potion of giant control 
(1 dose), scroll of protection from undead, 
scroll of communication , shield 

Spells: 


First level: 

7 spells 

Second level: 

6 spells 

Third level: 

6 spells 

Fourth level: 

4 spells 

Fifth level: 

4 spells 

Sixth level: 

3 spells 


A compassionate, genuinely pious soul, 
Alys has one irritating habit. No matter 
how bad things get, she is firmly and 
unfailingly cheerful, determined to find 


a silver lining even in a tornado funnel* 
When things are at their worse, she's 
likely to say, "Isn't it wonderful! Now 
the gods can test our courage " There 
have been times when the other party 
members have been tempted to strangle 
her, but they know that they need her too 
much. 

lorg Quiekwrist, 15th level thief 
STR 12 INT 12 WIS 8 THACO 11 
DEX 16 CON II CHA 16 AL N 

AC 3 
hp 36 

Languages: Common, Neutral 
Equipment: short sword + 2, + 3 us, water* 
breathing matures, (including those using 
breathe water spells), leather armor + 2, long 
bow + 2 t +3 versus lycanihropes, ring of spell 
turning, potion offlying I dose), scroll of pro 
tection from lycanthropes t thieves' tools, 
blackjack 

Skills: Open Locks 75%, Find Traps 73%, 
Remove Traps 67 %, Pick Pocket 90 %, Move 
Silently 70%, Climb mils 101%, Hide in 
Shadows 58%, Hear Noise 87%, Read Any 
thing 80 % t Read Magic 90% 

With his gift for smooth talking, lorg is 
as skilled a con man as he is a burglar. 
His favorite recreation is baiting Alys 
when she periodically tries to reform him 
from his thieving ways* Although he's as 
fond of trea*sure as anyone, lorg keeps 
adventuring mostly because he loves 
risks and challenges, but he'll never lake 
an unnecessary risk. He would never rob 
his own party, because he knows it's in 
his best interests to remain their friends. 
So far, traveling with them has brought 
him all the challenges a man could want* 

Dariel Sundancer, 

10th level elf, Attack Rank E 
STR HINT 16 WIS 16 THACO 8 
DEX 13 CON 12 CHA 13 AL L 
AC - 1 ( - 3 w/sword) 
hp 38 

Languages: Elf, Common, Lawful, 
Hal fling 

Equipment: plate +3, sword +2, defend- 
ing, potion of fire resistance (1 dose), scroll of 
protection from elemental, wand of trap detec 
tion, elven boots longbow with 25 arrows 
+ 2, ring of regeneration 


29 




NPC STATS 


Spelt Book: 

First level: detect magic t hold portal } magic 
missile, protection from evil, read magic, 
shield, sleep, ventriloquism , memorize 4 
Second level: detect evil , knock, mirror 
image, web, wizard lock, memorize 4 
Third level: dispel magic, fly, protection 
from normal missiles, water breathing , 
memorize 3 

Fourth level: confusion, growth of plants, 
wizard eye, memorize 4 
Fifth level: hold monster ; pass-wall, 
memorize 1 

DarieJ presents a puzzle to everyone who 
knows him, including himself. Normally, 
he's a cheerful, kindly elf who loves good 
jokes, small children, and giving largess 
to beggars. In battle* he becomes a ber 
serker, howling war-cries as he rushes 
into the worst part of a fight. Unless 
someone he respects orders him, he will 
refuse to retreat, no matter what the 
odds. Lord Hugh's orders have saved his 
life more than once. All he can say about 
his battle fever is* **I don't know', some 
thing just comes over me." 

Meadowrock Barberry, 

8th level halfling, Attack Rank D 
STR 9 INT 12 WIS 8 THACO 10 
DEX 16 CON 14 CHA UAL L 
AC 0 
bp 36 

Languages; Common, Halfling* Lawful 
Equipment: short sword + 2 t chain mail 
+ 3 , slingstones +1 (8), potion of healing (1 
dose), ring of spell eating 
Known as Med to his friends, Meado- 
wrock can be something of a coward in 
tight places. Although he would never 
desert his friends, he complains bitterly 
and often when things look bad. He also 
insists on studying all the angles when 
faced with a problem, a trait which has 
stood the party in good stead in the past. 


Friendly NPCs 

Nia.ll the Guard Captain, 

7th level lighter 

STR 12 INT 12WTS 8 THACO 15 

DEX 16 CON 14 CHA 11 AL L 

AC 2 
hp 42 

Languages: Common, Lawful 
Equipment: chain mall* shield, bastard 
sword. 

Dina Quickpaddle, 3d level thief 
STR 10 INT 13 WIS 11 THACO 19 

DEX 17 CON 13 CHA 12 AL N 

AC 7 
hp 10 

Languages: Common, Neutral, Fenfolk 
dialect 

Equipment: leather armor, dagger 

Barzan and His Allies 

Balancing the Opposition. When Rork fled 
Norwold, he naturally brought some of 
the men from his old bandit gang with 
him. It's up to the DM to decide how 
many, depending on the strength of the 
player characters. If they command a siz 
able number of high level troops or 
retainers, then Rork should have a com 
parable force, including a 10th level Lieu 
tenant. If the players have a weak force, 
then few of Rork's men were willing to 
follow him into a swamp. If the players 
are using the pre-rolled characters in the 
module, then Rork has 16 men of 5th 
level. 

On the same principle* if the player 
characters are loaded down with magical 
items, the DM should give Barzan and 
his minions a comparable number. On 
the other hand, the DM should beware of 
making the opposition too strong. 
Although some of Barzan *s retainers are 
of a fairly Sow level, his party holds all the 
cards, especially in the final chapter, 
where the player characters must come 
after them in their fortress. 

If the DM plays Barzan correctly, all of 
his principal allies will be alive for that 
last battle* although the player characters 
may have dim mated various supporters 
in previous encounters. Barzan's fortress 


is a formidable one* partly underwater 
and approachable only by boat or some 
means of underwater or Hying travel. 
Remember that if Rork hits a normally 
swimming character with one of his 
arrows of stunning, then that character 
automatically drowns if he fails the sav 
ing throw. 

Barzan of the Black Hand , 

23d level magic-user 
STR 11 INT 16 WIS 7 THACO 9 
DEX 13 CON 14 CHA 12 AL C 

AC 3 (1 vs missiles) 

Morale 12 
hp 51 

Languages: Common* Chaotic, Elf, 
Halfling 

Equipment: ring of protection + I T staff of 
water (31 charges)* ring of water breathing, 
talisman of water, dagger + 2, crystal ball , 
undersea boat 
Spells in Spell Book: 

First level: charm person, darkness , detect 
magic, magic missile, read magic, shield, 
sleep , * memorize 6 

Second level: detect invisible, ESP, invisi 
bility, knock, mirror image, phantasmal 
force , wizard lock, memorize 6 
Third level: dispel magic * fireball, fly, 
haste, hold person, infravision, lightning 
bolt, memorize 6 

Fourth level: charm monster , confusion, 
dimension door p hallucinatory terrain, mass- 
morph " polymorph others, remove curse, 
memorize 6 

Fifth level: animate dead, feebUmind, tele 
port , telekinesis, wall of stone memorize 5 
Sixth level: wall of iron, weather control, 
invisible stalker, lower water 
Seventh level; magic door, reverse gravity, 
sword 

Eighth level: permanence, symbol of fear ; 
mtnd barrier 

Ninth level: meteor swarm, power word 
kill 

NOTE: Barzan has east a shield on him 
self and then cast permanence ; The most 
important thing for the DM to remem 
ber is that while Barzan is insane, he is 
not a drooling maniac who makes bad 
decisions. His madness stems from his 
obsession with the gate . From that 


30 


NPC STATS 


assumption, all of his actions are perfect 
ly logical an<j well calculated. Likewise, 
since he hopes to rule the dominion 
someday* he will never slaughter its 
inhabitants or destroy their property 
wantonly. After all, someday they might 
be his source of income. 

For those who have GAZ 3, The Princi 
palities of Glantri, Barzan is a Water Ele- 
mentalist of the Third Circle and studied 
for a long time at the Great School of 
Magic in Glantri City. 

Barzan*s main strategy is to use magic 
to terrify the inhabitants into thinking 
that the land is under a curse too strong 
for the local cleric to remove . Since he is 
trying to keep his presence a secret* he 
will refrain from openly trying to kill the 
player characters at first. If they become 
too popular with the people, or if they are 
too close to discovering who he is, he 
might send an invisible stalker after the 
heir or make some other desperate move. 
The DM will have to decide what that 
move is, based on how play has gone so 
far. 

Within these restrictions, the DM can 
add more acts of mischief to those given 
in the text. Barzan will also react to the 
actions of the characters. If the party 
includes a thief, Barzan might have 
Murr (see below) steal some valuable 
item from the village mayor, then plant it 
in the player character thiefs bedroom. 
He might also arrange his apparitions in 
such a way that it seems a player charac 
ter magic-user caused them. The DEvTs 
basic principle should be if Barzan can 
cause trouble, he will, but always from 
behind the scenes. 

On the other hand, once the adventur 
ers track him down to his lair near the 
gate, Barzan T s madness will begin to get 
the upper hand. Although he will fight 
them in the best manner he can, he will 
never surrender or flee. To protect his 
beloved gate he will fight to the death, 
even if his retainers have deserted him 
and he is clearly outnumbered. If he's 
slain, his last words will be: "Mine. It 
was mine, you thieves.' 1 


Rork of the Northlands , 16th level fighter 
STR 17 INT 8 WIS 7 THACO 4 
DEX 13 CON 14 CHA 8 AL C 
AG "1 
Morale 10 
hp 76 

Languages: Common, Chaotic 
Equipment: plate + 2, electricity , sword + 3 
(IdS + ) f longbow + 2, arrows of stunning 
(20), ring of spell turning, amulet of protection 
from crystal balls and ESP, potion of healing {3 
doses), and scroll of protection from elementals 
Rork is a famous bandit chief on the run 
from Norwold, where King Ericall has 
placed a price of 25,000 gp on his head. 
Although he is a good commander, look 
ing after the needs of the men under him, 
he is sarcastic and hateful to everyone 
else, and may the Immortals help the 
bandit who disobeys him. He teamed up 
with Barzan out of desperation. If he 
finds himself in a hopeless battle, he will 
try to save his own skin, even if it means 
deserting the wizard. 

Enzo , 10th level cleric 

STR 15 INT 10 WIS 15 THACO 14 

DEX 12 CON 14 CHA 8 AL C 

AC -1 

Morale 7 

hp 40 

Languages: Common, Chaotic 
Equipment: staff of withering (5 charges), 
banded mail +2, shield, mace +2, ring of 
protection + 2, ring of life protection, boots of 
levitation 


Spells: 


First level: 

4 spells 

Second level: 

4 spells 

Third level: 

3 spells 

Fourth level: 

2 spells 

Fifth level: 

1 spell 


Although both Rork and Barzan despise 
this weak-willed coward and make no 
secret of it, Enzo stays because he, too, is 
on the run. The Princes of Glantri will 
gladly pay 10,000 gp for proof of his 
death or 15*000 gp if brought to them 
alive. Enzo is so terrified of Barzan that 
he will stay and fight with him to the 
death, convinced that Barzan would find 
some way to revenge himself If left to die 
alone. 


31 


Murr the Wenzel, 15th level thief 
STR II INT 12 WIS 9 THACO 10 
DEX 17 CON 11 CHA 10 AL N 

AC 2 
Morale 10 
hp 38 

Languages: Common, Neutral 
Equipment: leather +2 f dagger + 3 t ring of 
protection + l f boots of speed , scroll with 
detect magic (2), invisibility, fly, pas small. 
Skills: Open Locks 75%, Find Traps 73 % * 
Remove Traps 67 %, Pick Pocket 70 %, Climb 
Wills 101 % * Hide in Shadows 58 % * Hear 
Noise 87%, Read Anything 80%, Read 
Magic 90% 

In this band of fugitives, Murr is unique 
in having no less than four prices on his 
head: in Ylarum (GAZ 2), Darokin, 
Glantri (GAZ 3)* and Karameikos 
(GAZ 1), to the tune of 10,000 gp each. 
A quiet, self-effacing little man, he can 
blend in with almost any crowd. If the 
player characters are on the point of vic 
tory, Murr will desert if he can, but he 
will never surrender. If the Duke of 
Karameikos gets his hands On him, Murr 
will hang* and he prefers death in battle. 

Qleena Stone-Heart, 10th level 

STR 8 INT 16 WIS 10 THACO 18 

DEX 12 CON 13 CHA 12 AL N 

AC 6 

Morale 9 

hp 29 

Languages: Common, Neutral, Ore* 
Hobgoblin 

Equipment: ring of protection +3, ring of 
water walking , bowl of commanding water ele 
mental;, dagger 
Spells in Spell Book: 

First level: charm person t detect magic , 
read magic , shield, sleep , memorize 4 
Second level: detect invisible, in visibility 7 
web 7 wizard lock , memorize 3 
Third level: dispel magic , invisibility 10* 
radius * lightning bolt , water breathing, 
memorize 3 

Fourth level: confusion, wall of fire, wiz 
ard eye 

Fifth level: doudkill teleport 

Olccna joined Barzan for a very different 
reason than his other followers. She, too* 
is obsessed with water magic, but not to 




NPC STATS 



the point of madness. 

In fact, she has begun to have second 
thoughts about this risky venture. If 
things go badly, she might try to slip 
away; the DM should roll for Morale at 
every real set-back. If things look bad to 
her when the player characters storm 
Barzan *s lair, she will surrender and help 
them if they promise her a full pardon. 
She will serve them well unless it looks 
like Barzan is going to win, in which case 
she will change sides again, pretending 
that she intended to do so aU along. 

Ferris Steelsosd, i Oth level lord 

STR 18INT 10W1S 14 THACO 9 

DEX 14 CON 18 CHA 10 AL C 

AC 2 

Morale: 9 

hp 70 

Languages: Common, Chaotic 
Equipment: banded mail + /, two-handed 
sword +7, longbow with arrows + 2 (4), 
ring of fire resistance, bag of holding 
Ferris has come to his position as Rork's 
second-in-command because of the 
defection of Dorn Longwalker, Ferris is 


not well-liked by either his superiors or 
his subordinates. He is close-mouthed 
and aloof, and little is known of him. 
When he fights, he is disdainful of his 
opponents and sneers at them constantly, 
Ferris has always been a subordinate and 
there is no reward for him, personally 
He has nothing but contempt for Barzan 
and his plans, and will surrender if given 
the opportunity and he is obviously out 
matched, 

Rork*s Bandits 

5th level fighters, (AC 4; hp 24; # AT 1 
(sword or bow); D 1-8 (sword) or 1-6 
(bow); MV 120'; Save F5; ML 8; ALC; 
XP 175) each has chain mail, shield, 
sword and longbow 
Or: 

6th level thieves, (AC 6; hp 17; #AT 1 
(sword or bow); D 1-8 sword or 1-6 bow; 
MV 180*; Save T6; ML 7; AL N; XP 
225) each has leather, sword and bow 


Jocko The Guile , 10th level thief 
STR 12 INT 13 WIS 8 THAC0 13 
DEX 14 CON 15 CHA 30 AL N 
AC 4 
hp 25 

Languages: Common, Neutral, Elf 
Equipment; sword + 2, ring of protection 
+ 2, elven boots f amulet versus crystal balls and 
ESP, scroll with protection from evil, knock, 
protection from normal missiles, dimension 
door 


32 


9210XXX15O1 






MAP II 








































MAP lit 
















































































































































































































. Deep Swamp 


y 1 - FenhokJ Manor 
\ 2 = Fenhrkd Tow/i \ 

" '3 ='East Riding' / A. 

4 = Barnsby-under-Bramble 
y >5 =<^ollydqwn < V - \ 

6 = see adventure descriptions 
^ J =jSee adventure descriptions 

5 = Festival site 


miles 



























































































Players' Map of Fenhold 




Alfheim border 


v m >' 


Forest to Alfheim 


Village 


v Barnaby-under-0ramble^ 


Manor 


l East Riding 1 0 

u't*. 


Festival site 


?eep Swamp 




Ifl 


1 i f ( Hollydown 

I 7i ' 'V , 


Halfling 

Hills 




vv 















9210XXJ4140 ] 



Companion Game Adventure 


Legacy of Blood 

by Steve Perrin and Katharine Kerr 


Your cousin Rolph is dead-and while there is 
cause for sadness, there is also cause for cele 
bration, As his heir, you were willed his domin 
ion: Fenhold. 

Of course, the Deep Swamp is threatening to 
engulf all of your new holding. People are see 
ing ghosts, disappearing mysteriously...ani 
mals die without reason, and crops are 
suddenly blighted. 

The farmers don't like the swampdwellers, the 
swampdwellers don't like the farmers, and no 
one likes the halflings. The entire civil service of 
the dominion seems to have either worked for 
the failure of the dominion or resigned due to 
actions of the others. 

It's going to be a tough task to make all this 
shipshape once again, but you're 15th level 
now. Isn't it about time you settled down? 

This adventure is for use with the DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS' Companion Ryles set, which comple 
ments the D&D' Bask and Expert Rules. This 
adventure cannot be played without the D&D 
Basic, Expert* and Companion Sets produced by 
TSR Inc. 


1987 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed In tLS.A. 


TSR Inc* 

POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
WS 53147 


TSR CJK Ltd. 
The Mill* Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB14AD 
United Kingdom 


ISBN 0-88038-487-5 





0 

i363' 09210"" s 


























