Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09240 AD& D FR Lords Of Darkness"
See other formats
9240 




MBS 


£< 


illfei 


I W i 

Kj 

f' t> 




A ^ ' s 

^ * V * HL 

iw w _ 

¦fiai 


* 

L .fch 

BSiwaiLVj 

:-^f, ¦>-• ••_ ' -71 ' 

*T r - . - •'"' 

.3!/j l 



AIHMHXD KJITOEWta fr MAQCKL AD£D, TOKOOTIFN SEAL**. FftOtKJaS OF TOCJH IMJWWWTlOH. imI'IP-
TW fepH Mmaki *wn"J %TM r ^ 




























































THE LORDS OF DARKNESS 


Table of Contents 


INTRODUCTION . 2 

Tales From Beyond the Grave. 4 

Skeletons . 4 

Ghouls and Ghasts . 15 

Wights. 22 

Shadows. 29 

Mummies. 3 4 

Vampires . 42 

Ghosts. 51 

Spectres . 59 

Lich . 67 

The Night Gallery . 76 

A Mundane Guide to. 85 

The Lords of Darkness. 92 


Credits: 


Authors: Ed Greenwood (Introduction, Lich, Mundane Guide, 
Lords of Darkness), Deborah Christian (Skeletons, Shadows, 
Spectre), Michael Stackpole (Zombies), Paul Jaquays (Ghouls 
and Ghasts, Mummies), Steve Perrin (Wights), Vince Garcia 
(Vampires, Ghosts), Jean Rabe (Vampires). 

Editing: Scott Martin Bowles 

Project Coordinators: Bruce A. Heard, Karen S. Boomgarden 

Cover Art: Jeff Easley 

Interior Art: Karl Wailer 

Cartography: Dave LaForce 

Typography: Kim Janke 

Keylining: Stephanie Tabat 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, FORGOTTEN REALMS, 

DRAGON, PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION, and the TSR logo are trademarks 
owned by TSR, Inc. 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc., and in 
Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by 
regional distributors. Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any 
reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork presented herein in 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 

1988 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 

ISBN 0-88038-622-3 

$8.95 US 

9240 9240XXX1501 


TSR, Inc. 

POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
WI 53147 



TSR, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION 


TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End, Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
England 

























INTRODUCTION AND DMING UNDEAD 


With a final sharp, splintering sound, 
the door gave way. The warriors forced 
it aside and peered into the dimness 
beyond, blades drawn. 

They beheld a dark, littered chamber, 
silent and dead. Dust lay thick every 
where. Though there were no traces of 
anyone having come there, an old man 
sat in its midst, sucking a pipe and hum 
ming into his beard as he regarded 
them levelly. 

"And who are you, graybeard?" 
demanded the foremost man-at-arms, 
approaching warily. In reply, the old 
man spoke a word of power that smote 
their ears with a clap of thunder His 
challenger staggered back as if dazed, 
dropping blade and shield with a clang 
or. 

"My name, despoilers of tombs," he 
said in a deep, rolling voice, "is Elmin- 
ster. I sit in this crypt to be with my 
friends. You will leave them, and you 
will leave me-NOW." And he rose, eyes 
flashing. The men turned and, with one 
accord, fled. 

The old man chuckled, sighed, and 
sat down again. "You were saying?" he 
prompted the darkness. And the dark 
ness answered. . . 

Undead are among the most vividly 
chilling monsters in AD&D(r) game cam 
paigns, from awesome vampires to 
silent, purposeful skeletons. Many 
adventurers have battled wraiths and 
cut their way through zombies; DMs 
wanting to give players more such 
excitement will find adventures aplenty 
here. Everyone has fears and gruesome 
images of the undead; may you find 
more in these pages. 

This sourcebook begins with intro 
ductory notes on the nature and han 
dling of undead. "Tales From Beyond 
the Grave" then presents 10 complete 
adventures. Each highlights a "classic" 
undead type, with the challenges rising 
as one proceeds to the later scenarios. 
DMs should modify these as necessary 
to better integrate them into campaign 
play. 

"'Creature Notes" accompany each 
adventure. These studies of the fea 
tured undead are particularly useful to 


DMs devising their own undead adven 
tures. 

"The Night Gallery" details the main 
character or creature of each adven 
ture and is useful in planning a series of 
encounters. 

It is followed by "A Mundane Guide to 
Wards vs. Undead, Spirits, and Other 
Entities," which explores the magic and 
lore of dealing with undead. Some lore 
will be "common knowledge" (readable 
to players), and more can be revealed 
by consulting veteran adventurers, 
sages, or crumbling tomes. Much 
should be learned only by trial and 
error, during combat. 

"The Lords of Darkness" section 
presents new spells for "necromancers" 
(those mages who specialize in working 
with undead). They are fully compati 
ble with the spells in other AD&D(r) 
game rulebooks, and are recommended 
as rare and mysterious magics, not 
spells widely known and available. Cler 
ical equivalents may be devised in 
accordance with the deities of individ 
ual campaigns. 

Uxib^Ab )kj the 
FoRgoTTeK) Realms 

Although this sourcebook is set in the 
FORGOTTEN REALMS(tm) fantasy world, 
DMs need not have other Realmslore 
(such as the campaign set) if they wish 
to set these adventures in different fan 
tasy campaign settings. For those 
whose campaigns are set in the Realms, 
a few notes will help in planning fur 
ther undead adventures. 

Many types of undead are known in 
the Realms, including sorts not in the 
official AD&D game rules; boars, 
horses, wolverines, and even owlbears 
have been reported. There are also 
undead animated by mages, such as 
crawling claws and dracoliches (see 
DRAGON(r) Magazine issue Nos. 32 and 
110), little known in other worlds. 
Undead are a recognized fact of exist 
ence in the Realms, much feared and lit 
tle understood. Many gory tavern tales 
about liches and vampires and armies 


of shuffling zombies chill farmers and 
merchants alike late at night around 
dying hearth fires. 

Some undead are clearly evil, 
directed or created by or allied to dark 
powers. Others are just as clearly neu 
tral, and the intelligent undead have 
proven time and again that they are 
capable of all the emotions and align 
ments of their living counterparts: 
treachery, suspicion, friendship, honor, 
and even kindness. There are benign 
undead who warn or aid travelers as 
well as those who kill the living. What 
ever causes undead to come into exist 
ence (spell, natural process, divine 
deed, or unknowable mystery) are 
strong in the Realms; there are a LOT of 
undead. 

DM)wg Uyob&Ab 

Most DMs use undead for their memo 
rable, fearsome nature and their 
unique powers, which can sorely test 
low-level player characters. How 
undead are handled in battle is of para 
mount importance; while the mindless 
nature of lesser undead allows a DM to 
rescue foolish PCs from battlefield folly, 
too often, more powerful undead are 
handled in as mindless a manner. 

Consider a lich, for example: a mage 
or cleric so thirsty for immortality as to 
try to cheat death, and already power 
ful at magic. All too often a lich is played 
by the DM as a being who suddenly 
throws a paramount instinct for surviv 
al beyond death away, to stand and 
trade spells with a band of adventurers. 
Liches should be cunning and elusive - 
why be destroyed when one can slip 
away to strike again another night? 
What's the hurry, what's time, to a lich? 

The DM should always have a clear 
idea of what encountered undead are 
trying to accomplish, from skeletons or 
zombies mindlessly seeking to slay, to a 
vampire or lich defending a trap-filled 
lair. Why defend such a lair? 

The lich's lair presented in this book 
has a purpose: Alokkair is trying to 
strip greedy adventurers of all the mag 
ic (and valuables which can buy more 


2 




magic) he can. A vampire or spectre 
may try to separate individuals from a 
party with pit traps and the like, so as to 
drain them at leisure, and gain undead 
followers. 

All intelligent undead will have aims 
(even if they are insane ones, or whim 
sies to entertain them). The "natural" 
creation of greater undead seems 
related to strength of purpose and 
character, so thinking undead without 
something to do (beyond exulting in kill 
ing and mayhem) should be rare. 

A vampire or lich that clashes with 
player characters many times to 
become a behind-the-scenes personal 
foe is far more memorable, frightening, 
and satisfying to defeat than an undead 
menace seen for only an instant before 
PCs let fly with all their firepower. All 
too often, undead are defeated with 
boring ease, when a wily vampire 
would become gaseous and escape, 
only to ambush PCs later when asleep, 
separated, or battling another monster. 
If DMs play undead as energetically as 
PCs, players will soon have their own 
chilling tales of undead and hard battles 
in the dark. 

ALTeRK)ATh)es To 
BbJ&zgy Dwtf 

Many DMs are reluctant to use undead 
as much as the vivid descriptions of 
these monsters tempt them to; it seems 
unfair to DMs and players alike to lose 
10 years of life (in a campaign where 
time is largely ignored, the loss is mean 
ingless; in a roleplaying campaign, the 
loss seems horribly steep) at the mere 
sight of a ghost, or have a single undead 
attack drain one or even two levels of 
hard-won experience, robbing a player 
of the game benefits of what might be 
literally years of AD&D(r) game play. 

The horror and might of undead 
must be preserved: to merely turn a 
level-draining ability into so many dice 
of physical damage seems a poor solu 
tion. DMs may well devise their own 
solutions, but here are some alterna 
tives to an attack that would normally 


result in a loss of character experience. 

• Temporary paralysis with no sav 
ing throw, either complete or partial, 
thereby preventing spell-casting, climb 
ing, picking locks, and giving a -2 pen 
alty to AC and attacks, for ldl2 + 10 
rounds; curable. 

• Loss of all experience gained back 
to the minimum required for the char 
acter's current level. 

• Immediate loss of consciousness, 
loss of 2d6 hit points, plus a permanent 
loss of 1 hit point per drain attack, plus 
possible loss of currently memorized 
spells. 

• Loss of ability points at random; 
character must save vs. poison to see if 
each loss is permanent. 

• Permanent withering of touched 
limb (limited wish or wish notwith 
standing), or bestowal of a disease of 
severe, chronic nature. 

• Bestowal of minor permanent 
curse (see "Curses!", DRAGON(r) Maga 
zine, issue No. 77). 

• Character stricken with insanity 
(refer to DMG for types), or, if the char 
acter is a spell-caster, the PC perma 
nently loses knowledge of how to cast a 
certain spell at random or perform a 
type of a magic. 

• Alignment shift of character, one 
step per attack, toward that of the 
attacking undead. Note that this could 
cause back-and-forth alignment shifts 
as a character with a long career 
encounters undead of different align 
ments. 

• Immediate feeblemindedness plus 
a permanent loss of 1 ability point tran- 
dom choice, save vs. poison to avoid). 

Noxi-Evlt Uiodead 

The arts of creating and controlling 
undead are Evil-and, as many have 
learned to their detriment, very dan 
gerous. 

But undead themselves are not 
always evil. In the Realms, and many 
other real and fictional lands, there are 
tales of apparitions that warn the living 
of hazards such as washed-out bridges 
and impending disaster. Others provide 


silent, non-attacking grim reminders of 
long-ago battle valor, or guard family 
crypts and the resting places of heroes. 

Other undead are of the sorts 
described in the AD&D(r) game rules: 
dangerous monsters that must be 
fought. There are vampires in the 
Realms who command small armies of 
undead, and liches who rule entire cit 
ies or underground realms. 

But vampires have helped travelers 
and battlefield survivors. Liches have 
trained, advised, or chatted amiably 
with adventurers. Skeletons have 
marched out of crypts in besieged cities 
to snatch up children-their 
descendants-and bear them to safety. 

The great paladin Ralgorax, the 
"Sword of Tyr," in the dead of night 
roused the sleeping northern village 
where he had been born, riding his 
charger down its streets and banging 
his great sword against his shield. He 
warned of an oncoming ore horde - 
and slew its boldest scouts as the vil 
lagers scrambled to gather their 
belongings and flee. 

The next day, after the paladin's blade 
had slain many an ore, the full light of 
day revealed that Ralgorax's flesh was 
withered. He bore old death wounds, 
and the horse beneath him was also car 
rion. He smiled sadly at their revulsion, 
saluted, and rode away-into the 
horde. 

DMs should keep players on their 
toes by occasionally using monsters 
that vary from their official versions: 
intelligent, unturnable skeletons are 
frequent undead examples. Why not 
helpful undead? Or neutral undead 
who do not even know they have died, 
such as merchants caught encamped 
and asleep by a long-ago blizzard? 
Undead need not always have malicious 
personalities. 

That is how easy it is to create non 
evil undead. Such variety in an AD&D(r) 
game campaign will give its participants 
glowing memories of exciting, vivid 
play . . . and isn't that what gaming is 
for? 


3 










SKELETONS 


Monster: Skeletons (12) 

Terrain: Village 

Party Levels: 6 (Average 1st) 

Gold X.P.: 800 
Treasure X.P.: 1,000 
Monster X.P.: 

Kill: 744 Defeat: 558 

Retreat: 186 

Setup 

• Several churchyards in local villag 
es have been desecrated. Grave robbers 
are suspected of unearthing the tombs 
and strewing bones about the ceme 
tery. Only one cemetery in the area 
remains untouched. PCs are asked by 
the local temple to guard the church 
yard and prevent this sacrilege. 

• The village temple's sexton runs 
screaming to the tavern about the dead 
rising from their tombs in the vaults 
beneath the temple. Villagers who dare 
investigate are attacked by moldering 
skeletons. The PCs are rousted from 
their sleep at the inn and pressed into 
service against this menace. 

DM BAakgrzouK>& 

Village cemeteries in the area are being 
disturbed, not by grave robbers, but 
rather by the odd magical powers of 
Kendra, a madwoman with the ability 
to animate the skeletal dead (see "The 
Night Gallery"). Recently, she has wan 
dered into the village of Daufin. A few 
days before, a caretaker chased the 
filthy vagabond woman away from the 
temple grounds. Now, at the dark of the 
moon, Kendra visits the cemetery, 
raises the dead at midnight, and turns 
their wrath against the temple staff 
who live in nearby outbuildings. Joined 
by the dead of the mausoleum vaults 
within the temple, the skeletons will 
slay the living and desecrate the temple 
unless heroic actions prevent them 
from doing so. 

If PCs have agreed to guard the ceme 
tery from what is thought to be grave 
robbers, they are in on all the action of 
this adventure. If they are roused from 


sleep to aid the villagers, they come into 
the scenario when novices are 
besieged, under the heading "The 
Siege", below. 

The AdvewTuRe 

Daufiw Temple am£> 

CemeTeRY 

The temple in Daufin is small but well- 
supported by farmers and villagers. 
The curate is Hannes, a third-level cler 
ic. His assistant is the first-level cleric 
Jilla, and they have accepted three vil 
lage youths into service as acolytes. 


Hannes (first-level cleric): AC 8; 
MV 9"; hp 14; # AT 1; Dmg ld8 
(mace); AL CG. 

Spells: Chant, hold person, bless, 
cure light wounds. 


Hannes is fat and jovial, thoroughly 
content to be a rural cleric. He lives in a 
fine house at the edge of town. He does 
not think clearly in an emergency and is 
rather cowardly. Hannes is the one who 
suggests that the PCs help if PCs are not 
already on the scene. He stays in the 
background of any action. 

Jilla (first-level cleric): AC 10; 

MV 12"; hp 6; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (quar- 

terstaff); AL CG. 

Spells: Cure light wounds. 

The night Kendra raises the skele 
tons, Jilla has been carousing late into 
the night at the local tavern. She may or 
may not aid the characters, as the DM 
sees fit. If the PCs acquit themselves 
well, she asks to join them when they 
depart. 


Acolytes (3 zero-level clerics): 

AC 10; MV 12"; hp 3 each; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld2 (fists); AL CG. 


Petrus, Davie, and Lauren are obedi 
ent and hard-working teen-agers, easily 
awed by things and people beyond nor 
mal village experience. They believe 
Hannes is a very wise man, and follow 


his orders without question. 

The temple is a tall and spacious 
building of whitewashed stone with a 
red-tiled roof. Although the exterior is 
simple, the interior is decorated with 
gold leaf, frescoes, and richly carved 
woodwork. Below ground, in the foun 
dation walls, are crypts, the final rest 
ing place of leading clerics and some 
distinguished villagers. Each crypt is 
plugged with a slab of marble carved 
with the name, dates, and accomplish 
ments of the deceased concealed 
behind it. The temple mausoleum is 
almost completely filled, and is all but 
ignored under Hannes' administration. 

Along the hill behind the temple are a 
few outbuildings, including the aco 
lytes' quarters. The cemetery occupies 
the sunny hillside below and behind the 
temple. Surrounded by shady trees and 
planted with flowers, the place is rest- 
fully beautiful by day. Folk often pay 
their respects to the graves of the 
departed; there is little local history of 
active undead, and the cemetery is not 
considered to be a fearful place. 

A GRAueyARib Vigil 

The cemetery is located in an area 
approximately 200' long by 100' wide. 
Trees grow on every side of the grave 
yard. The temple and outbuildings are 
visible 300' away near the top of the 
hill. 

Once the PCs have posted themselves 
around this area for guard purposes, a 
quiet and boring vigil begins. This 
cloudy and overcast night is also the 
night of the new moon. It is completely 
dark in the cemetery and the surround 
ing woods. The only light that can be 
seen comes from a lamp over the dis 
tant temple door, which burns all night. 
The village is out of sight beyond the 
hill, and any light from there fails to illu 
minate the graveyard. 

Night birds sing for a time after sun 
set, then settle down for the evening. 
Near midnight, a breeze springs up 
which rustles the tree leaves and 
obscures small noises -such as Ken 
dra's approach through the woods, and 


4 







her quiet muttering as she draws near. 
The madwoman's 30'-infravision helps 
her in the darkness, and she is almost 
animal-like in her ability to move 
through undergrowth and slip between 
nearly unseen trees. 


Kendra: AC 10 (7 if enraged); MV 
12"; hp 5 (stays conscious to -5 hp); 
#AT 1; Dmg ld2 (teeth and claws, 
attempts to bite victim's throat); AL 
CE; XP 1,000; ST 10 (18 if enraged); 
IN 16; WI 5; DX 9; CO 12; CH 7. 

Spells: animate dead. Wears a ring 
of invisibility Infravision, 30'; 30% 
immune to sleep, charm. 


To see if PCs or Kendra encounter 
each other before she can do her magic, 
roll ld6. On a result of 1, 2, or 6, go to 
"Running Into Kendra," below. 

Otherwise, Kendra strolls out into the 
middle of the graveyard, constantly 
humming and muttering under her 
breath. Her sounds are hidden by the 
wind in the trees, unless a character is 
using magic or has exceptionally acute 
hearing. As the madwoman walks 
around this open expanse, there is a 
25% chance that she may pass within 
the range of sight of characters with 
infravision. PCs may respond however 
they wish when they discover her in 
the cemetery-at any rate, her magic 
has already done its work, and the skel 


etons will soon be rising from their 
graves. Go to "Enough to Raise the 
Dead!' 

Ruww)wg IwTo Kehjdru 

On a die roll of 1, Kendra passes close 
enough to a PC that the player charac 
ter becomes aware of her presence. If 
the PC wins an initiative roll, he is close 
enough to make a leap or grab for her. 

If the PC is successful in this, Kendra 
fights and shrieks, calling skeletons to 
her aid. Id4 rounds later, ld4 skeletons 
rise out of the closest graves and come 
to her assistance, attacking her assail 
ant or captors. If the undead free her, 
she flees into the woods and comes 
back the next night to try this all again. 
Otherwise, go to "Rewards." 

If the PC fails to catch Kendra right 
away, she runs into the cemetery and 
dashes in frantic circles, singing and 
calling out to her grave-bound friends. 
Regardless of PC actions, the entire 
skeleton crew of the graveyard is about 
to rise up and assist Kendra. Go to 
"Enough to Raise the Dead" and alter 
events as necessary to reflect the mad 
woman's circumstances. 

On a die roll of 2, a PC with infravis 
ion glimpses a human-shaped figure 
moving through the edge of the trees, 
but is not close enough to tackle it 
immediately. Oblivious to this attention, 
Kendra continues on into the cemetery. 


If she is free to walk around there for at 
least one round, her magic takes effect, 
and play continues with "Enough to 
Raise the Dead." 

If the PC grapples with Kendra in the 
course of that round, she calls out and 
summons ld4 skeletons which come to 
her aid in the next ld4 rounds. If the 
undead free her, she flees into the 
woods and returns the next night to try 
this all again. Otherwise, go to 
"Rewards." 

If the PC fails to catch Kendra right 
away, and she is alerted to danger, she 
flees and runs around the cemetery, 
calling skeletons to her aid. In this case, 
continue with "Enough to Raise the 
Dead." 

On a die roll of 6, Kendra becomes 
aware of the PCs before they notice her. 
She changes her course and then heads 
for the temple mausoleum. Slipping 
inside, she raises the skeletons from the 
mausoleum crypts. The sexton, alerted 
by the thudding of marble slabs onto 
the floor, investigates -and sees the 
blood-chilling sight of walking bones 
and grinning skulls. He screams in ter 
ror and flees to the village to give the 
alarm. 

If Kendra is diverted in this way, 
there is only a 2% chance for PCs 
guarding the cemetery to notice her 
slipping into the temple. At their dis 
tance from the temple, they notice only 
a furtively moving figure. However, the 


5 



















sexton's screaming exit some minutes 
later should draw their undivided 
attention. If PCs investigate, their 
encounter is described under "The 
Mausoleum." 

Enough To Raise The Dead 

Once Kendra has summoned the grave 
yard skeletons, they begin to rise from 
the grave two rounds later. It takes one 
round for a skeleton to become ani 
mated, and one additional round for it 
to claw its way out of the ground (see 
"Ecology of the Skeleton," elsewhere in 
this book). In the next four minutes, all 
undead that are going to will have 
responded to her summons. If PCs are 
present, the skeletons attack characters 
immediately after emerging from the 
ground. 


Skeletons (7): AC 7; MV 12'; hp 7 
each; #AT 1, Dmg ld6 (claws); AL 
CE. 


One skeleton will appear in the sec 
ond round, four more in the third, and 
the last two in the fourth. 

If there were no PCs guarding the 
graveyard, Kendra proceeds to the tem 
ple mausoleum, followed by her skele 
tons. There she "frees" more of her 
friends, and the sexton escapes through 
a side door to warn the village. Play con 
tinues with "The Siege," below. 

If Kendra has encountered PCs and is 
captive or slain, the skeletons attack the 
player characters. If PCs are victorious, 
play concludes with "Rewards." Other 
wise, Kendra runs to the temple mauso 
leum to "free" more of her "friends" 
while the cemetery skeletons engage 
the PCs. 

The Mausoleum 

Kendra may have noticed PCs guarding 
the graveyard, and detoured instead to 
the temple mausoleum. Alternately, she 
may have escaped to the temple from the 
melee in the graveyard. If Kendra knows 
she is pursued by characters, she bars 
the front door of the temple to slow pur 


suit and is drawn unerringly to the mau 
soleum by her affinity for the dead. 

In either case, she summons the skel 
etons from their crypts in the mausole 
um. If adventurers arrive within one 
turn to investigate the disturbance, 
they are confronted inside the temple 
by skeletons. 


Skeletons (2): AC5; MV 12"; hp 10; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld8 + 1; AL CE. 

One wears a ring of feather falling. 
Skeletons (3): AC 7; MV 12"; hp 
6; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (claws); AL CE. 


These undead fight without reserva 
tion, and can only be stopped by 
destroying or turning them. They do 
not pursue fleeing characters far from 
Kendra. The first two skeletons are the 
remains of adventuring clerics. They 
were buried in their armor and carry 
+1 maces, hence are the most power 
ful fighters among these undead. One 
of the other skeletons was buried with 
a bag of 300 gp in the crypt at his feet; it 
is clearly visible to anyone looking 
directly into that tomb. 

The Siege 

When Kendra has marshaled her force 
of skeletons-unless prevented by 
PCs- she leads them directly to the aco 
lytes' quarters, the largest outbuilding. 
She has mistaken it for the caretaker's 
residence, and singled it out for her 
revenge. 

Awakened by the sexton's screams, 
the acolytes see the undead marching 
toward their quarters. They bar the 
door and stand inside, grasping chair 
legs as improvised weapons. Kendra 
stays concealed at a distance, watching 
what the undead do. When the skele 
tons assault the building, they tear shut 
ters off the two windows and enter. 
The acolytes can hold out for one turn 
before they are overwhelmed by the 
undead and slaughtered. If skeletons 
are attacked from the rear (by PCs), 
two-thirds of their number turns to the 
new threat, and the others persist in 
their siege of the house. 


ReuoARds 

If the PCs successfully guarded the 
cemetery and/or saved the acolytes, 
they are thanked by Hannes and 
rewarded with 500 gp. If the acolytes 
perish, the PCs receive only 100 gp for 
their efforts. If Kendra is captured, 
Hannes wants to keep her in hopes of 
curing her insanity. The cleric doesn't 
expect PCs to loot the dead, but unscru 
pulous characters may acquire the ring 
of feather falling, two +1 maces, and 
the 300 gp in the crypt. 

Ecology of the 
SkeLeToio 

Hubert was blustering his way through 
his third pitcher of ale at the The Empty 
Tankard tavern. His audience was 
mostly reduced to younger adventur 
ers who welcomed the blowhard's tales 
while Callis, the innkeep, readied the 
evening meal. 

"Last month Rado and I stumbled 
across the tomb of Tynik the Robber 
King, in the Gray Hills," the big man 
said. "You've all heard of it..." he paused 
while heads nodded on cue in the lamp 
light, "... but they don't tell you about 
the carnivorous skeletons that guard it. 
We fought them as long as we could, 
but we were outnumbered. They crave 
human blood, and when we ran, they 
gave chase ..." 

After the past hour of similar yarns, 
one listener wasn't having any of it. 
"That's enough misinformation right 
there, you ignoramus!" blurted a rough 
voice. 

Hubert blinked in surprise at the 
unexpected interruption. A female 
dwarf moved into the lamplight, and 
put her empty mug down on Hubert's 
table with a definitive thunk. 

"I'm Tarif Zag," the dwarf introduced 
herself," and I fought skeletons before 
you were born. Learned a lot about 
them in the field. Then I retired, and 
became a cleric," she said, fingering a 
medallion around her neck in the form 
of a silver hammer, "and learned a lot 
more. Any adventurer deserves to 


6 













know the truth about those creatures, 
and not a lot of hogwash. 

"Now, let's get some of this straight," 
declared Zag, surveying the audience 
she had so deftly stolen from Hubert. 
"Skeletons are both more dangerous 
and less fearsome than you've been led 
to believe. Anyone who makes them out 
to be worse than zombies or ghouls has 
never fought zombies or ghouls." She 
took a long pull from her mug, and shot 
a sideways glance at Hubert. "And any 
one who says they're nothing but a pile 
of bones, easy to beat, has never had a 
close call with 'em." 

"But I've seen the ones that want human 
blood," rejoined Hubert, not so easily 
quelled. "They chased us, and brought my 
friend down like a pack of dogs. . ." 

"Sure," Tarif cut him off. "That's what 
it looked like. But let me tell you a thing 
or two about skeletons. 

'When a skeleton is animated, the 
enchantment accomplishes two things. 
First, it knits the bones together magi 
cally, binding them with force drawn 
from the Negative Energy Plane. Almost 
all the bones have to be there-without 
mostly complete remains, the spell is 
almost impossible to hold together. 

"Second, the spell binds energy called 
the animus into the skeleton to animate 
it. That's not the same as the spirit or 
soul of the deceased. It is only a frag 
ment of soul energy, the portion that 
helped keep the soul in the living body. 


In death, the animus lingers around the 
remains until they turn to dust. This is 
true no matter what the race of the 
creature whose bones are animated." 

Tarif drained her mug and looked 
squarely at Hubert. "Since skeletons 
have no brain and no soul, they likewise 
have no emotions and no desires - 
much less 'cravings for blood.'" The 
dwarf snorted and refilled her mug 
from Hubert's pitcher. 

Hubert peered unhappily into his 
near-empty pitcher, and drained what 
was left with one swallow. "Then how 
do you explain those skeletons that 
killed Rado?" The fighter belched, then 
continued. "Once they caught sight of 
us, they chased us forever. They were 
bloodthirsty enough to do that!" 

Tarif shook her head. "There's only one 
thing that motivates a skeleton: the 
orders of the spell-caster that created it. 
Once the animus is housed in the bones, 
the spell-caster tells it, in a few words, 
exactly what he wants it to do. Skeletons 
follow those orders exactly-no more, no 
less. They behave rather brainlessly, actu 
ally, taking those orders at their literal 
face value. More than one necromancer 
has been undone by wording skeleton 
orders sloppily." 

A studious young man in robes put a 
full pitcher on the table near the dwarf 
ish cleric, then asked a question as he 
refilled her mug. "So you mean if a 
spell-caster tells a skeleton to guard an 


area, that might not be good enough?" 

Tarif studied him for a moment. 
"Have thoughts of animating the dead 
yourself, do you?" His blush was ade 
quate response. "Hmph." Her disgust 
was apparent, but she sampled the ale 
anyway and mused out loud. 

"No, an order like that wouldn't be 
good enough," she said. "What does 
'guard' mean? Stand at attention with a 
halberd at port arms? Kill anyone in 
sight? If the orders aren't specific 
enough, the skeleton either stands 
there undecided, or takes a random 
action that seems to fulfill the order. 

"The best orders are simple and exact: 
'Stop anyone from leaving this room, kill 
ing them if necessary,' or, 'Kill anyone who 
enters this hallway.' " Zag inclined her 
head to Hubert. "I suspect that's the kind 
of order your skeletons had. As you 
noticed, you can only stop them from car 
rying out their orders by destroying 
them-or by evading them completely." 

Hubert returned her gaze. "Are skele 
tons always used as guards, or do they 
have other purposes too?" he asked, 
helping himself to the new pitcher. 

Zag shrugged. "That's their most com 
mon use. I'd say-either guarding a per 
son, or a place like Tynik's tomb. They're 
too brainless to do much else. But they 
make tenacious and ever-alert guards. 
Besides obeying their orders to the letter, 
they are the easiest type of undead to 
raise, and are relatively simple to create. 


7 
















Of course, you only find them employed 
by unscrupulous sorts who don't mind 
disturbing the remains of the dead. Then 
again, they don't even exist among people 
that practice cremation!' 

The robed fellow spoke up again. 
"Can a skeleton be raised if it's buried? 
Or does it have to be uncovered first?" 

Tarif frowned as she replied. "No, 
skeletons can be raised right up out of 
the ground. When the magic knits their 
bones together, they're charged with 
Negative Plane energy. This unnatural 
force has an 'unbinding' effect on Prime 
Material Plane matter, allowing the 
skeleton to push and scramble its way 
out of the ground like a worm through 
sand. Or push the stone plug out of a 
crypt. And so on. But that burst of 
energy fades after a minute or so, and 
then the skeleton is no more powerful 
than a healthy man or dwarf!' 

The room fell quiet as listeners envi 
sioned skeletons rising from their 
graves. A few shuddered. 

"Is there no protection against a sacri 
lege like that?" grumbled Hubert, voic 
ing the thought of many. 

"Well, in fact, there is:" said the cleric. 
"Not many bother to have it done, but 
the clerical ceremony, eternal rest, 
drives the animus from one's remains 
and makes it impossible for the 
deceased to be raised as any sort of 
undead creature. It's a rather costly 
ceremony, and one not too many con 
sider essential. But it can be done." 

Hubert nodded thoughtfully as a 
youth in a ring-mail vest spoke up. 

"How hard is it to fight and destroy 
skeletons? I've heard they're pretty 
easy to kill-if that's the word for it." 

"They have a few quirks that are 
important to know about:' replied Tarif. 
"Holy water or fire are especially useful 
against them. Holy water hurts skele 
tons because it undoes the Negative 
Plane energy that binds them together. 
Fire burns them like it does a person, 
and you don't have to worry about your 
aim too much when you use it. 

"Swords, axes, spears -all bladed 
weapons, in fact, do only about half the 
damage you'd expect them to. Slashing 


a bone does a lot less damage than slash 
ing flesh would. Arrows and other mis 
siles are next to useless, since they 
glance off bones and fly right through 
the skeleton. Maces and blunt weapons 
do wonders, though, smashing bones 
into bits. They're the best hand weapon 
to use against skeletons." 

"Why didn't you just turn the skele 
ton instead?" asked Hubert. 

"I wasn't a cleric then!" Zag laughed. 
"It's hard to turn undead if you're not. 
But, just as skeletons are the easiest 
undead to create, they're also the easi 
est to turn. So you have a good chance if 
you have a cleric along when you meet 
a skeleton!' 

"I've heard there are potions that turn 
undead as well." It was the robed man 
again. 

Tarif shook her head. "Not to turn 
undead, really, but to control them, as if 
they were charmed!' The dwarf made a 
face. "If there's ever a disgusting thing 
to drink, a potion of undead control is 
it. The more powerful creature it's 
made to control, the more nauseating 
the taste. Bleah." She shuddered. "I've 
known some people who couldn't keep 
one down, it's that bad. At least a potion 
of skeleton control isn't as awful as the 
rest. It's a gruesome brew to make, but 
effective, if you can stand to swallow it." 

On that appetizing note, the innkeep 
announced that the roast was done. As 
thirsty customers ordered their meals, 
their attention turned away from 
Hubert and the dwarfish cleric. Tarif 
turned to the adventurer, looking sadly 
at his once-again empty pitcher. 

"Don't worry," she said under her 
breath. "At least the bones of your 
friend Rado will never be animated as 
undead. I suppose those were his 
remains I blessed with eternal rest. " 

"What?" Hubert looked at Tarif, 
uncomprehending. 

"And here," said the cleric, placing a 
gold coin on the table in front of 
Hubert. "Have dinner, on me. If you 
hadn't reduced the number of skele 
tons guarding that tomb, I might not 
have made it in and out again. Thanks." 

The coin was stamped with the mark 


of Tynik, the Robber King. Zag was 
gone before Hubert could think of a 
response. 

CReaTuRe Notes 

1. Orders are given to a skeleton at 
the time the skeleton is animated. Once 
given, they cannot be revised unless the 
animation spell is terminated and the 
undead raised a second time. 

2. A spell-caster's orders cannot exceed 
24 words in length. The shorter and 
more precise the orders are, the better 
chance there is for the skeleton to carry 
them out without error. If there is ambi 
guity in a skeleton's order when it is con 
fronted with a particular situation 
("Guard this room"), there is a 50% 
chance that it will stand inactive and con 
fused. The remainder of the time, the 
creature may interpret its order in any 
way the DM may conceive as being in 
accordance with the original wording. 

3. After the appropriate spell is cast, 
it takes one round for a skeleton's ani 
mation to become complete. At the 
DM's discretion, certain spell variations 
may allow the skeleton to be raised 
from its grave. In such a case, one addi 
tional round is required for it to free 
itself if buried in the ground or sealed 
in a crypt. At the DM's discretion, this 
may take longer due to unusual circum 
stances. In certain situations, the 
undead cannot free itself at all (if, for 
instance, it is sealed behind a brick wall 
or buried beneath a landslide). 

4. The important ingredients for a 
potion of skeleton control are ground 
bone (from the type of skeleton the 
potion is to control); graveyard dirt; 
mandrake root; hair from a cleric of 
lOth-level or greater; and a dash of holy 
or unholy water (depending on align 
ment of user). This is the most palatable 
of any potion of undead control. 

5. Skeletons are immune to the 
effects of charm, sleep, cold-based mag 
ic, and all spells which affect willpower. 
Holy water inflicts 2d4 points of dam 
age on a skeleton, while sharp or bladed 
weapons do only Vi normal damage 
(round down). 








ZOMBIES 


Monster: Zombies 
Terrain: Moor and castle 
Party Levels: 6 (Average 1st) 

Gold X.P.: 5,000 per member 
Treasure XP.: 500 
Monster X.P.: 

Kill: 1920 Defeat: 1440 

Retreat: 480 

DM Note: This adventure is set up to 
stress roleplaying and storytelling. 
There's combat and the like herein, 
enough for anyone, but the focus is on 
helping the players define their charac 
ters and build a link into the Forgotten 
Realms world. 

SeTup 

• Hard luck means hard choices. In 
your case, your financial insolvency 
means accepting positions as guards for 
a caravan passing through the Lonely 
Moor. You know there are safer routes, 
but the merchant has been told that the 
shipment (to avoid official scrutiny) 
must pass through the Lonely Moor. 
The only good things about this mission 
are the pay and the fact that Zhentarim 
raids in that area have been cut way 
back. Of course, it is not reassuring to 
dwell on the reasons why the raids 
have been cut back, because the 
rumors are dark and horrid. But, then, 
they're only rumors, right? 

• Though seen as a clear sign that he 
has gone utterly mad, a scholar con 
fides in you that he believes the con 
junction of the stars and planets points 
to a revival of the Netherese sorcerers 
and their power. As Aumvor the Undy 
ing (commonly believed to be a lich and 
secreted away in a northern cave) is 
perhaps the best known and roundly 
infamous of the Netherese magickers, 
this revival is not looked upon with 
favor by anyone. The scholar. Bookman 
Thomas, believes much could be 
learned from the Netherese and com 
missions the group to survey the Lonely 
Moor for signs of Netherese's return to 
power. (He's hired a low-level party 
because more experienced adventurers 
have turned him down.) 


• Food has become scarce, and 
money even more so. In return for the 
promise of a night's lodging and a cou 
ple of meals, your crew agrees to dig a 
well for the owner of the farmhouse 
you've discovered in your travels. As 
you take up the picks and shovels he 
offers you, one person quips, "When 
adventuring, we get to keep whatever 
we find when digging." 

The farmer nods pleasantly. "What 
ever you find you may keep. The only 
thing I want out of that hole is water." 

You all laugh and, as the day wears 
on, you dice for the rights to the odd 
gold coin recovered from the hole. As 
the sun begins to set, you hear a yelp 
from the person down in the well. He 
tugs frantically on the rope, and you 
haul him to the surface. 

In his hands you see a glittering silver 
sword that practically radiates magic. 
Your companion looks at you, his hands 
wrapped tightly around the pommel. 
"Don't ask me how I know this," he says 
in a mournful voice, "But the sword's 
name is Cleaveheart and its master, 
who is in the middle of the Lonely Moor, 
needs it badly." He swallows hard. "If we 
don't get the sword there in time, I will 
die!' 

These openers can bridge into the 
first, second, and third parts of this sce 
nario. The lead setup ties into the sce 
nario from the start. The second and 
third openers tie best into the second 
section. Setup No. 4 goes best into the 
third section of the scenario. Even so, 
no matter what opener you wish to use, 
the scenario can be played straight out 
with very little modification. 

ParT h Night Camp 

As deserts go, the Lonely Moor has a 
great advantage over Anauroch-it has 
enough scrub brush to fuel a fire when 
night falls. It falls fast, and with it goes 
the heat of the day. Jackets and hyenas 
greet the night with enthusiastic yowls. 
All too quickly, it seems to those gath 
ered at your camp, the howling beasts 
seem to have focused their serenade on 


your fire. 

The campsite is on a low expanse of 
alkali flat in a narrow but long stream 
bed. While it does not have the strategic 
advantage of high ground, it does shield 
the group from the chilly desert night 
winds and will channel attackers to the 
north or south approaches. The sand 
dunes that form the valley walls are too 
soft for horses to run through. There 
are signs (most notably a fire ring) to 
suggest others have found a haven here 
and, by digging down about 5', the par 
ty can create a seep well for water. 

Zhentarim raiders will hit the party/ 
caravan in the wee hours of the morn 
ing. Approaching from the south, they 
will ride through the camp in two 
waves. The first wave will have war 
riors who are meant to occupy the cara 
van's guards while the second wave 
pauses long enough to gather up loot 
and, most importantly, destroy or carry 
off all freshwater supplies they can see. 


Raiders (25 in each wave): AC 8; 

MV 24"; HD 2 (mount), 4 (men); hp 
10 (mount), 24 (men); # AT 2 (mount), 
1 (men); Dmg 1-411-4 (mount), 2-8 or 
2-7 (broad sword), 1-6 or 1-8 (lance); 
AL CE; XP 354 per each raider and 
mount. 


The raiders will hit fast and try to get 
away as quickly as possible. Certainly 
let the players know, through the Zhen 
tarim leader's cursing, that their com 
bat abilities (no matter how meager) 
have forced him away sooner than 
pleases him. The raiders will leave the 
site to the north and, if the players don't 
think of this themselves, the merchant 
will urge them to head out after the 
raiders. 

Car wage Knjo uuLedge 

As quick as they might be, the adven 
turers do not catch the raiders. Instead 
they come upon a scene that is some 
thing more than horrible. In another 
sandy valley, they find the raiders dead, 
or almost so. It looks, clearly, as though 
the raiders were ambushed, but who- 


9 





ever attacked them did it with their 
bare hands. 

By easing the pain of one victim or 
through Intelligence Ability rolls, the 
following picture emerges. The 
ambushers lay hidden beneath the val 
ley's sandy walls, then attacked when 
the raiders paused to split up the loot 
and make it easier to carry off. From a 
carcass or two with split spines, it is 
obvious the attackers were zombies, 
but the efficacy of their attack surpris 
es the players. Zombies, because of 
their stupidity, could not normally coor 
dinate such an attack. Something con 
trolled them. 

Their tracks lead off to the west 
where, as it appears from the highest 
point the adventurers can reach, a 
hand has reached up from the Lonely 
Moor to clutch at the moon. 

ParT Ih House of 
N)gbTmARes. 

The black basalt castle sits in a valley 
into which sand has drifted and seem 
ingly choked off all life. In reality, about 
10' beneath the sand, the ground is cov 
ered with the remnants of the moun 
tain from which the castle has been 
carved. Its five spires stab toward the 
sky like fingers, and the castle's gate is 
shaped like the muzzle and head of a 
hyena skull. The whole structure has 
an antiquity of design and warped qual 
ity to it that would send a shiver down 
the spine of even the most jaded adven 
turer. 

Created by Aumvor (now known as 
Aumvor the Undying) the castle's own 
ership has fallen to his great- 
grandneice, Morasha. The manner and 
attitude of the party will determine 
how she greets their appearance at her 
home. Having had a pack of hyenas 
shadowing the party's approach (con 
trolled by a living zombie hyena), she 
will know if they are coming in a war 
like mood, or if they merely happened 
upon her castle by accident in a search 
for water or the Zhentarim captives. 

If the party is hostile in its approach. 


Morasha will use the hyenas to harry 
the party while she summons up the 
zombie defenders of her castle to 
mount the walls. If the players over 
come the hyenas and zombies, they can 
proceed directly to "Part III: Nuris 
Elfward Walks Again." If not, truncate 
the next section (eliminating dinner) 
and have the players languish in 
Morasha's clutches. 


Hyenas (8): AC 7; MV 12"; HD 3; hp 
10; # AT 1; Dmg 2-8; AL NE; XP 65 
each. 

Pelts are worth a 5 gp bounty. 
Zombies (ldlO + 10)): AC 8; MV 6"; 
HD 2; hp 6; # AT 1; Dmg 1-8; AL NE; 
XP 32 each. 


Players arriving without evil intent 
will be greeted by Morasha as they 
enter the castle's courtyard. Morasha 
will be standing at the top of the stair 
way leading into the castle's keep and 
will openly welcome the strangers. Her 
attitude toward them will depend upon 
their responses to her greeting -the 
more gracious and educated they seem, 
the more likely she is to play it straight 
with them. 

Morasha will lead them into a huge 
banquet hall that has exquisite stone 
carving beautiful enough to drive any 
dwarves almost mad. The pillars arch 
ing up toward the ceiling are carved to 
represent the arched spines of skele 
tons. Up toward the ceiling, the skele 
ton's arms and hands spread out to 
form the ribs upholding the vaulted 
ceiling. Other details of the work 
appear to be modeled after bones of 
various creatures and, despite the 
macabre source of inspiration, the hall 
is a masterwork of the stonemason's 
art. 

Complaining she is not often called 
upon to entertain travelers from afar, 
she invites the players to seat them 
selves at her long ebony table. Once 
seated, five different servants come out 
bearing platters of meat, dried fruits, 
wine and other foods. The meat is prob 
ably horse, but is so well spiced that its 


real flavor (or that of anything else) is 
virtually impossible to detect. 

The servants do not appear unusual 
except that they react to Morasha's 
unspoken commands. She is courteous 
enough to thank them for some task 
performed, but she never vocalizes an 
order. In addition, they appear some 
what drawn and gray. Aside from 
avoiding collisions with each other, the 
servants appear to notice no one but 
Morasha. Lastly, all the servants look to 
you to be Zhentarim. 

Small TaLk 

Roleplaying will be very important dur 
ing the dinner section of this scenario 
because Morasha will use it to solidify 
her opinion of the characters. Because 
necromancy (like surgery and game 
design) makes for lousy dinner conver 
sation, Morasha will, through asking 
questions about the party members, 
eventually bring the discussion around 
to love. She will not be looking to 
seduce any of the characters and will 
be put off if any passes are made at her. 
Her point is to determine how the play 
ers react to the statement, "Well, then, 
would you say that any action taken in 
the name of love is justified by its end?" 

The answer to this question, whether 
it's positive or not as well as the depth of 
sincerity of the response, will deter 
mine how the scenario plays itself out. 
If the players roundly come down 
against that attitude, Morasha will see 
them as a threat. She will offer them 
accommodations for the night and pro 
vide each with a pillow scented with 
narcotic flowers. The flowers smell 
very pleasant and will ensure the play 
ers sleep deeply-deeply enough to be 
dragged into "Part III" of this adven 
ture. 

If the players are sincere in answer 
ing the question positively, Morasha 
will trust them. Depending upon how 
the DM wishes to play her in terms of 
mental balance, her actions will be 
skewed. If the DM plays her as utterly 
and irredeemably crazy, Morasha will 
look upon the players as a source of 


10 









parts for Nuris' body ("You have such 
soft hands for a big man. I need your 
hands ...") Morasha will immediately 
order her living zombies to capture the 
players and carry them down to the 
vaults below. 


pointed out as a powerful artifact that 
can help her attain her goal. 

PajzT III: Nurzte 
BlfujAnd WaLks Aga)io 


cover. The lettering spells, "Death's 
Book," and seems to shift and crawl 
across the cover like fog creeping up 
from the ocean. It's worth 50,000 gp, 
provided a buyer can be found for it. In 
a small pile, off to the left, you see a 



Playing out this final segment will 
depend upon the personality the DM 
has chosen for Morasha. The descrip 
tions below will largely remain the 
same no matter what the case, but 


whole host of weapons well suited to a 
man of war. 

Above the center of the floor, sus 
pended halfway between the floor and 
ceiling, is the body of a man. Tall and 


If the DM wishes to play Morasha as 
somewhat more sane than evil, she will 
invite the players to the vaults to view 
her masterwork. This will usher them 
into "Part III," but only after she gets a 
vision from one of her living zombie 
jackals that some Zhentarim raiders (a 
veritable army of them) are coming to 
destroy her home. She asks the players 
to help defend her castle as she takes 
the last step in her experiment. She will 
request one adventurer, the one who 
has evidenced the most pure and brave 
heart among the group, to accompany 
her. 

Possessing the sword Cleaveheart 
will affect this outcome somewhat. If 
Morasha is crackers, the sword will 
urge the individual carrying it to search 
out the vaults. Morasha and the living 
zombies will oppose this move. If 
Morasha is not nuts, the person pos 
sessing the sword will be asked to join 
her in the vaults. The sword will be 


should be made more sinister and 
creepy if Morasha is played as mad. A 
good technique for this is to include lots 
of slime, spiders, snakes, and other 
crawly things in the descriptions if one 
or more of your players does not like 
them in real life. 

The VauLTs 

While the pillars above were vertebrae, 
these pillars have the form of warped 
thigh bones. From the doorway, the 
round room's floor is down a set of 20 
concentric circles of steps. The main 
floor is 40' in diameter and lies 20' 
below the level of the doorway. 

Rusting cages with skeletons in mold- 
ering clothes hang from the ceiling and 
ring the upper level. Below, on the main 
floor, two tables contain alembics and 
jars of ingredients commonly found in a 
magician's lab. The nearest table 
includes a fat tome, bound in black 
leather, with gold script worked on the 


incredibly muscular, he would seem to 
be sleeping except for the grayish pal 
lor of his flesh. Black basalt tendrils 
spread from the center of the ceiling's 
lotus design and appear to be holding 
him up, but they seem far too slender 
for the job. In addition, he is not resting 
upon them, but it appears they are sunk 
into his flesh at the neck, chest, shoul 
ders, waist, thighs, and calves. The 
body appears perfectly formed, unless 
Morasha is mad, in which case the body 
is a patchwork of flesh with more 
stitching than a quilt to hold it together. 
His golden blond hair will be a mangy 
collection of scalps if Morasha is not 
playing with a full deck, and his normal 
ly symmetrical muscles will look mis 
matched and lumpy. 

If the characters are prisoners, they 
will look on from the cages while 
Morasha eyeballs them for a leg muscle 
or a patch of flesh. She will become dis 
tracted by the Zhentarim raid and 
leave. In this case, the players will have 


11 
















to escape and destroy Nuris' body. That 
will break Morasha's mind, leaving her 
open to death, or unable to control her 
zombies, which will allow the party to 
escape with whatever loot they can 
find. (If the players kill Morasha, the liv 
ing zombies will have their minds 
returned to them, and her corpse will 
turn to dust right there in front of 
them.) 

The ZhewTARlm Raich 

This raid should pose a threat to the 
players only in the number of foes they 
will face. For all intents and purposes, 
the castle will be overrun by Zhentarim 
sick and tired of their people being kid 
napped and turned into zombies. Com 
bat should be spiced with descriptions 
of zombies attacking Zhentarim that 
would have killed a player, or using 
their own bodies to shield players when 
stuff gets very nasty. This fight should 
have killing enough for all, but it should 
seem as though, in the end, the players 
will be overwhelmed. 

The HeRo Auuakews 

Morasha wants to bring Nuris Elfward 
to life. She would have infused the life 
force from one of her zombies into him, 
but none of the Zhentarim had the 
courage and purity of heart the Nuris of 
legend possessed. She wants to draw 
enough life force from the player char 
acter to start Nuris up and recall his 
spirit from wherever it is. 

If the player accepts the challenge, 
Morasha will ask him/her to strip off all 
clothing, rings, or other stuff that could 
interfere with the process. More stone 
tendrils will grow from the ceiling at 
her command and attach themselves to 
the character's neck, chest, shoulders, 
waist, thighs, and calves. The stone will 
feel cold, then those areas will go numb 
as the tendrils retract and raise the 
character into the air. (If the player had 
Cleaveheart, the blade will be placed on 
Nuris' chest.) 

Two tendrils will grow from the ceil 
ing and touch both character and Nuris 


in the forehead. Morasha will be chant 
ing out her spell, sending a tingling over 
the character's body, as she powers up 
the transference. (This can be made 
especially dramatic if the other players 
are being backed through the castle 
toward the vaults by the incredible 
Zhentarim raider group. Alternating 
between the two venues of play will 
heighten the tension with the transfer 
ence (and the attendant display of pyro 
technics) finally taking place when the 
player characters are backed into the 
vaults themselves.) 

As the transference ritual proceeds, 
the player character will see Nuris' life 
flash before his eyes. The scenes will all 
be heroic and most often feature Nuris 
and his moon elf companion, Aranthor 
Eliaoim, battling some evil or another. 
While most of it goes by too fast to be 
captured, and the views of the world 
are easily 2,500 years old, enough infor 
mation could be slipped in to direct 
players toward a future scenario. Hav 
ing "Nuris flashbacks" can provide 
interesting color or data as the cam 
paign progresses (and can explain away 
some amazing dice rolls later). 

Muscles rippling and blue eyes flash 
ing with a keen light, Nuris drops to the 
ground and lands on the balls of his 
feet. With Cleaveheart in hand, or an ax 
picked up from the pile on the floor, the 
hero moves to help the players drive 
back the Zhentarim horde. 

ParT IV.* What Do We 
Do Nouj? 

If the players have killed Morasha, her 
living zombies will be released and will 
help the adventurers get out of the 
Lonely Moor. As they are Zhentarim, 
acquaintance with them will have little 
value, unless the players are forced, at 
some point, onto the outlaw trail. 

In gratitude for the players' help in 
saving her castle and bringing Nuris 
back, Morasha is more than willing to 
release some of the zombies from 
thralldom. If the players insist, she will 
release all her living zombies, though 


she will protest that they are just Zhen 
tarim and will only get themselves 
killed in some less productive way. 

Morasha will bestow upon the person 
of good heart who endured the trans 
ference a magical shield +2 that will 
dispell possessions. She will also give 
that individual and the others in the 
party 5,000 gp for the risks they took 
during the fight. 

The implications of Nuris' return 
upon your campaign can be great or 
small. If you wish him to have no influ 
ence whatsoever, have him head out for 
Evereska to live with the elves until 
again called from the earth. You could 
also have him return Morasha's love, 
leaving the both of them in the middle 
of the Lonely Moor. This latter solution 
would make Nuris more accessible in 
dire times, but would keep him out of 
the way. 

If you desire a more important role 
for Nuris, he could report a desire to 
see the world. Nuris remembers a 
world 2,500 years gone. The players 
would have to teach him about the new 
world. Seeking out ruins long hidden, 
but fresh in Nuris' mind can also be the 
source of adventure. 

CReaTuRe Notes 

I pressed my fingertips into the boot 
print and felt the triangular lump that 
matched the place Aranthor Eliaoim 
had notched his heel, I looked down at 
the track, availing myself of the silvery 
moonlight the clouds let pass to light 
my way. Time had not much eroded the 
crisp edges of the track, but I did not 
delude myself. I'm days behind him. 
Black Bess must be laughing mightily at 
me. 

My left hand dropped to the hilt of 
Cleaveheart, the weapon I'd favored 
since Aranthor and I pried it from the 
dead Pirate King's own hands. Forged 
from the metal of a rock hurled from 
the sky by that new god, Tyr Grimjaws, 
it was a weapon of which much would 
be sung. Its heaviness pulling at my 
sword belt reassured me, for only its 
unearthly magic would win my way 


12 












through Aumvor's zombie legions. I'll 
free you, Aranthor, and I'll pay Aumvor 
a most horrible ransom. 

Barely a league further through the 
darkened Netherese countryside, I 
came to Aumvor's castle. Ringed by hill 
sides and mountains that still grew 
thick with green beauty, the keep fes 
tered like an obscene wound in its val 
ley. Strewn around it, mocking the 
forests, the stone chaff blighted the 
ground. Twisted dolmens stood like 
limbless trees, while smaller rock 
shards smothered all plant life. 

His zombies are but fingers on his 
hand, and now his castle reaches from 
the earth to the sky Is he so bold as to 
dare to claim divinity? I smiled grimly to 
myself. Guide my hand, Tymora, and I 
will give him his release. 

The castle's gate gaped open for, with 
his command of zombies, Aumvor had 
nothing to fear. The gate had been fash 
ioned after the skull of a hyena. As I 
strode into its mouth, I waited for the 
portcullis to crash down, but nothing 
happened. If Aumvor anticipated my 
visit, he knew I would not turn away, no 
matter what he chose to do to me. 

Once through the beast's stone 
throat, I slipped into the shadows to 
skirt the courtyard. I quickly mounted 
a set of steps hacked into the western 
wall. Half hidden in blackness, I froze as 
murmured voices issued from a pas 
sageway that opened beneath the 
stairs. 

The stench of decay confirmed what 
my eyes told me about one of them. 
Human, or what had once been human, 
it shambled forward mindlessly. Flesh 
hung limply from its gaunt frame, and 
the filthy rags wound round its middle 
seemed there more to hold it together 
than out of any sense of modesty. 

The other creature sniffed the air, 
then spun with an agility only a 
Netherese living zombie could muster. 
The ogre-thing pointed a taloned finger 
at me, its eyes blazing with an unholy 
intelligence. "Take him, take him!" The 
words, croaked through a throat not 
shaped for higher speech, turned the 
zombie and drove it at me. 


Cleaveheart slid from the scabbard in 
a circular draw that flashed moonlight 
from its razored edge. I wrapped both 
my battle-scarred hands around its 
warm hilt, then leaped down into the 
courtyard. I rolled to absorb the shock 
of impact, then gained my feet and 
engaged my foes. 

The human zombie still focused upon 
where I had been. Taking a half step for 
ward, I swept Cleaveheart around in a 
crosscut that cut through the zombie's 
back and out its chest. The once-man 
staggered, its bony hands clutching at 
its split chest, then crashed to the 
ground. 

Believing it finished, I turned to face 
the ogre-thing, for I knew it to be the 
greater danger. The human zombie 
lunged at me, dragging its lifeless legs 
behind it. Its fleshless fingers raked 
through my leather breeches and 
traced bloody furrows on my shin. Pain 
flashed like lightning up to my hip. I 
stumbled back yet managed to swipe 
Cleaveheart through the creature's 
neck, severing its spine for the second 
and final time. 

The ogre's backhanded blow explod 
ed stars before my eyes and sent me 
sailing a dozen feet across the court 
yard. I landed hard, the jerkin beneath 
my mail absorbing a bit of damage, and 
rolled to a stop. Cleaveheart sprang 
from my nerveless right hand when my 
elbow slammed into the ground. Disori 
ented, I stood before I'd located the 
gray-skinned monster or my blade. 

I heard something behind me and piv 
oted just in time for the ogre-thing to 
sink its fingers into my chest. Rings of 
mail snapped in the creature's grip and 
agonies I'd not known since my battle 
with the Blue Sword of Archendale 
burned through my ribs. With laughter 
little more than guttural grunts, the 
ogre pulled me close to its face and 
turned me so the moon could illuminate 
my features. 

Recognition flashed in those blood 
shot eyes, but I knew the intelligence 
therein was not native to the ogre. 
"Nuris Elfward! I am blessed!" 

I spat in the monster's face. "Tell that 



13 






















to Old Lord Skull!" I dropped my left 
hand on the ogre's jaw and sank the fin 
gers of my right through its greasy 
black hair. Screaming as it sought to 
crush my chest, I wrenched hard to the 
left and heard a loud snap, though I 
could not tell if the ogre's neck or my 
ribs had produced the sound. 

The ogre-thing collapsed, dropping 
me to the ground. My left leg gave way, 
its urgent aching demanding attention 
now that my ribs no longer found them 
selves in a vise. I massaged my leg until 
it stopped hurting so much and then, 
after wiping my bloody hands against 
my thighs, found Cleaveheart and 
homed the blade. 

I levered myself up on my left knee 
and bent toward the ogre. I pressed the 
fingers of my right hand to its neck and 
felt, right below the point of the break, 
a small lump over the spine. Shaking 
the dagger Wasp from the sheath on my 
right forearm, I slit the lump and pulled 
free a translucent white crescent. 

It looked exactly like what it was: a 
fingernail paring. Through an exacting 
ritual, a necromancer like Aumvor 
could insert the nail paring over the 
creature's spine and gain control over 
it. It would still be alive, at least until its 
life force had all been fed back into the 
necromancer along this magical con 
nection between them, and would be 
under the necromancer's complete con 
trol. As long as they are fed and healed 
of disease, they will live out a normal 
life span as the necromancer's slaves. 

I narrowed my eyes. Another finger 
on his hand. The number of zombies a 
necromancer could control would 
depend upon his abilities, but a half 
dozen zombies in thrall to one man was 
as many as I'd ever heard of. That is, of 
the living zombies, because they still 
have some will and require active con 
trol. Almost anyone can command 
legions of the other kind. 

Zombies that are actually dead often, 
at least in the Netherese tradition, come 
from once living zombies. As the body's 
spirit dies, rebellion goes with it. By 
substituting the nail paring from the 
necromancer for one from another 


creature (including a living zombie), 
undead zombies can be given to and 
controlled by others. Of course, the fact 
that they are dead and putrifying does 
make them less than ideal servants. 

My fingers felt the break in the ogre's 
neck. The pillar of life. That's what my 
sword master had called the spine. 
"Remember, Nuris, cut the spine and 
you'll win the fight. Works on men, 
beasts and them what should have died 
long ago. Fire's not bad either, or molten 
silver, but the latter aren't always avail 
able." 

The sound of clapping echoed from 
the shadowy walls to fill the courtyard. 
I turned, and my heart leaped to my 
throat. Aumvor, short and stocky, with 
moonlight glinting from his sweat-slick 
pate, stood atop the wide staircase lead 
ing into the keep. Resting his fat hands 
on the paunch supported by his black 
robe's sash, the necromancer smiled 
almost graciously. 

Below him, trying to hold his head 
tall, stood Aranthor Eliaoim. On the 
moon elf's face I saw the struggle for 
control of his body being waged with 
Aumvor. "Go, Nuris, flee. My folly of 
asking Aumvor to return my beloved 
Marissa to life has trapped me. Let not 
your friendship doom you as well." His 
voice strangled hoarsely to silence, but 
the look in his eyes still begged me to 
leave. 

I looked up at Aumvor. "Release him 
and I will let you live." 

Aumvor shook his head, then raised 
his hands like a puppeteer. With a few 
deft motions he forced Aranthor to 
draw his blade, Bloodquick, and 
descend to the courtyard floor. "Save 
yourself, Nuris Elfward." 

A furious moan keening from his 
throat, Aranthor charged me. By reflex 
I drew Cleaveheart and barely man 
aged to turn my friend's head cut. I 
twisted my blade free of the parry and 
almost slid into a riposte, but held 
myself back. 

"No!" screeched Aranthor, "You must 
end this!" Aranthor abandoned himself 
to Aumvor's control and Bloodquick 
blurred into a silver circle. I parried the 


attack, then bound Aranthor's blade 
against mine. Reaching up with my left 
hand, I clawed at the back of his neck, 
then drove my right knee into his stom 
ach. Aranthor caved in and fell at my 
feet. 

Aumvor smiled. "There, I forced the 
great Nuris Elfward to break his vow 
and kill one of the elder race. Wait until 
the court at Evermeet hears . . . Ack!" 

Wasp flew from my hand and pierced 
the necromancer's breast. He clutched 
at it with pudgy fingers, then stumbled 
backward into his keep. For a half sec 
ond I thought to follow and finish his 
evil for all time, but a more important 
mission stopped me. I slid Cleaveheart 
into its scabbard, then homed the elf's 
blade, knelt and lifted Aranthor into my 
arms. 

Once clear of Aumvor's demesne, I 
lay Aranthor down and cleansed the 
wound on the back of his neck with the 
brandy in my wineskin. The sting of it 
shocked some life back into him. I 
smiled down at him. "You were almost 
done for, back there, you know?" 

My elven companion nodded weakly. 
"Once you ripped the nail out, I was 
free of him. It probably relieved him 
not to be fighting me so hard." 

I nodded. "Couldn't have recovered 
you had the wound fully healed over." I 
glanced back toward the keep. "Some 
day, my friend, we're going to have to 
go back there and kill him." 

I smiled and helped Aranthor to his 
feet. Suddenly the landscape shifted in 
my sight. Sand covered everything I 
could see and incredible heat bled up 
through the ground into my boots. 
Gone was all the greenery and life, only 
jackals and other carrion beasts lived 
within the land I saw. Glancing up into 
the sky I saw that even the stars had 
changed their positions. 

In a second, everything shifted back 
to what I knew of the world. Aranthor 
studied me with concern in his green 
eyes, but I shook my head. "I trust your 
judgment, my friend. Let us return to 
the land of the living." 


14 










GHOULS AND GHASTS 


Monster: Ghouls, ghasts 

Terrain: ruins, underground warren 

Party Levels: 18 (Average 2) 

Gold X.P.: 

Treasure X.P.: 

Monster X.P.: 

Kill: 1373 Defeat: 1030 

Retreat: 343 

Setup 

• Prior Utrecht Bronagan, who tends 
the village's Lathander shrine, has 
always suspected that ghouls dwelled 
in the village graveyard, yet so long as 
the "eaters of the dead" did not disturb 
the living, there was little cause for 
alarm. Now, a brash young villager has 
entered the graveyard and not 
returned. 

• The villagers have recently begun 
to cremate their dead, rather than bury 
them, Now, several villagers have disap 
peared in the night, and the corpse of a 
recently deceased man was stolen 
directly from its bier during a wake, in 
front of aghast family members and 
friends. 

• The local lord wants the mystery of 
his missing tax money solved. His tax 
collector died in a remote village with 
out revealing the whereabouts of the 
collected taxes. 

The Horror FacTor 

There are things that men were not 
meant to see and seeing them tends to 
unhinge the mind, fray it a bit around 
the edges. Generally, this does not 
occur when a character sees a monster 
for the first time. Adventurers expect 
to see monsters. Horror engulfs those 
who see the effects a monster has had 
on their fellows, or realize the awful 
truth about something, then begin to 
fear what might happen to themselves. 
When an encounter requests that a 
character make a "Horror Check," the 
character must make a Wisdom Ability 
Check with a d20. If the d20 roll is less 
than or equal to the combined total of 
the character's Wisdom attribute and 
experience level, the check succeeds, 


and the character is able to either deal 
with, or rationalize what has been expe 
rienced. 

If the check fails, the character is 
horror-struck and suffers the following 
effects: -4 penalty to all die rolls, the 
character's Wisdom is temporarily low 
ered by ld6 points, he will have a pho 
bia (unreasoning fear) toward the 
source of his horror, and he has a 10% 
chance to develop a mild form of insani 
ty (roll a d20 and match the result 
against the Types of Insanity Table on 
page 83 of the DUNGEON MASTERS 
GUIDE). If a character afflicted with 
mild insanity is unable to separate him 
self from the source of horror, the 
insanity becomes more severe. 

Player characters may continue 
onward, but horrified NPCs (including 
hirelings and henchmen) must make a 
Morale Check at a 35% penalty. NPCs 
who fail this check will attempt to flee 
in panic (as if struck by a reversed 
remove fear spell). 

The effects of a failed Horror Check 
linger until the afflicted character is 
treated with the clerical remove fear 
spell. Even so, the effects of the horror 
are lingering. Any subsequent Horror 
Checks are made at a -1 penalty. Such 
penalties are cumulative; that is, each 
time the character fails a Horror Check, 
the next check is more difficult. 

The Plot 

Rugen Phimister, a fat, evil man who 
was the local duke's tax collector, died 
and became a ghast with an insatiable 
appetite for flesh and gold. In order to 
feed his hungers, the ghouls he leads 
have kidnapped and imprisoned vic 
tims in their fetid warren. Occasionally, 
a victim dies prematurely and joins 
their number. 

RuwNJlNjg The ScetoATz'io 

If the PCs avoid making loud noises, 
they may enter the lair undetected 
through either the mausoleum (area 
No. 1) or the disturbed grave (area No. 
2). The ghouls do not form an organized 


defense until one of their number has 
been encountered and escaped to warn 
Rugen Phimister in area No. 7. Lone 
ghouls who encounter more than two 
adventurers will attempt to flee and 
join with the pack, otherwise they 
attack. Ghoul tactics in the warren are 
hit and run-leap from hiding, fight one 
round, then flee into the small tunnels. 
Ghouls also lead the chase away from 
Rugen Phimister and across pit traps 
whenever possible, never springing 
their own traps. 

If Phimister the ghast is encountered, 
he may wish to bargain with the adven 
turers, either for their continued safety 
or his own (see NPC description in "The 
Night Gallery" chapter). 

The La)r 

The ghoul lair is extensive. Dozens of 
passageways, most little more than nar 
row crawl spaces, form a complex war 
ren beneath the graveyard, and more 
recently, the village itself. The passages 
link graves, mausoleums and crypts, 
private family burial plots, and a num 
ber of homes and businesses. 

Mdppisjg The Warrsm 

The ghoul warren is designed to let 
each DM customize it. Only the num 
bered encounter areas, enlarged tun 
nels, and tunnel intersections need be 
marked on the map the DM draws. To 
complete the map, the DM must draw 
most of the smaller crawl ways. The 
steepness and direction of the slope for 
each passage must be marked (see map 
symbols in the key-the arrow marks 
on the tunnel lines indicate the direc 
tion of slope between tunnel intersec 
tions). The number for each encounter 
area indicates its relative depth. The 
higher the number, the deeper it is 
located beneath the surface. 

The DM should take care to vary the 
slopes of the passageways, realizing 
that steeper passages make travel more 
difficult, and the adventure a bit more 
deadly. 


15 



(JHOUL AND QHASr LAIR 




L(V(1 TUHNd 

1 mP EIaTW Jhj"i 1.L 1 k 1 


IVifc blUIJr LHJWb N 


!(P- WWN 

">- 

. icotn- Down 

>>" 

. eroDf Down 


A.IWV¥ GROUND DuirCHN'G 

Q 

tuNNU jNlmwrtloH 

0 

PJ| TPhNU: 5FC RaNbOJM 
CNHUiita te 

V 

Pit towtalNlHq ulcllM 

L'l ill 

Pit CONlalH'lNq, dJOUi 

? 

ritOhCLNCHE i.njivi' 


5calE: ] 5m u :i ite - id i Lvc 





Mo ve me wT )nj the WAizizeto 

All the numbered encounter areas are 
tall enough to allow a man to stand 
upright. The small connecting tunnels 
are different. Any character wearing 
more than leather armor will be 
reduced to a movement rate of 4". 
Ghouls and ghasts move at their normal 
speed through the tunnels. 

Rawdom EtoaousiT&Ks 

Check for random encounters once 
every three turns. A roll of 1 or 2 on 
ld8 indicates that an encounter takes 
place. If an encounter is indicated, roll 
ld8 again and use the corresponding 
encounter number from the following 
table: 

1. The hunting pack. A single ghast 
leads a pack of ghouls, yipping and 
yammering through the warren. If the 
ghast is destroyed here, it cannot be 
met in Rugen Phimister's lair. 


Ghast (1): AC 4; MV 15"; HD 4; hp 
20; # AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld8; SA 
nausea, paralyzation; SD immune to 
sleep and charm; AL CE; XP 140. 

Ghouls (ld4+2): AC 6; MV 9"; 
HD 4; hp variable; # AT 3; Dmg ld31 
Id3/ld6; SA paralyzation; SD 
immune to sleep and charm; AL CE; 
XP 109. 


2-5. A ghoul. 


Ghoul (1): AC 6; MV 9"; HD 4; hp 
10; # AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6; SA par 
alyzation; SD immune to sleep and 
charm; AL CE; XP 125. 


6. A grisly corpse, partially 
devoured, falls out of a niche upon the 
party member most likely to be fright 
ened by it (lowest wisdom). That char 
acter must make a Horror Check 
(though the DM may have other charac 
ters make checks tool. 

7. An ochre jelly. 


Ochre jelly: AC 8; MV 3" ; HD 6; hp 
25; # AT 1; Dmg ldlO +2; SD split by 
lightning bolts; AL N; XP 300. 


8. Pit of spikes, hidden by offal and 
refuse. A character falling in takes ld6 
points of damage and has a 25% chance 
to contract a disease. 

EwcouMTeR AReas 

1. The Mausoleum 

The graveyard contains but a single 
mausoleum, the final resting place of a 
prominent local family. The tomb door 
is closed and has an excellent key lock, 
which is still fastened. The interior of 
the mausoleum is in shambles; bones 
and stone coffins lie strewn about like 
gruesome, discarded toys. None of the 
body pieces bears any finery. All has 
been taken by the ghouls. The ghouls' 
secret entrance is in the corner. Below 
this hidden trapdoor is a narrow shaft, 
about 20' deep. It connects with a ghoul 
tunnel. However, the base of the shaft is 


16 














a pit trap with spikes, hidden by offal 
and refuse. Anyone who falls in takes 
ld6 points of damage and has a 25% 
chance to contract a disease. 

2. A Disturbed Gmcoe 

At first, this new-made grave appears 
unmolested. Yet upon closer examina 
tion, the loose soil has settled in an 
unnatural way, as if its support had col 
lapsed from below. 

Any villager can lead the PCs to the 
most recent burial plot in the grave 
yard. The mere concept of exhuming 
the body, is abhorrent to the villagers. If 
the grave is excavated, the lid of the cof 
fin is intact, yet the coffin is empty. The 
coffin has been breached from below, 
and the corpse removed. In its place is 
the rotted body of a dead ghoul, crawl 
ing with maggots and giant white centi 
pedes (which attack anyone opening 
the coffin). None of this is evident 
unless the coffin is opened. Have the 
coffin opener and any villagers present 
make a Horror Check. Penalize the 
check by -2 if the body is exhumed at 
night by torchlight. 


Giant centipedes (3): AC 9; MV 

15"; HD y 4 ; hp 1, 2, 2; # AT 1; Dmg nil; 
SA poison; AL N; XP 32 each. 


3. AT a Deab Run) 

This is a long, curving, high-ceilinged pas 
sageway, large enough for adventurers to 
walk upright in double file. It ends 
abruptly at both ends. The many side pas 
sages afford the ghouls ample opportuni 
ty to ambush unwary PCs. The DM 
should mark several passage intersec 
tions as coming from directly above the 
passage, or at high, steep angles. 

4. The Bowe Y Aizib 

Every inch of the irregular floor of this 
large cavern is deeply covered with 
human bones. It is difficult, if not 
impossible to cross this room without 
crunching bones. Giant rats dwell here, 
feasting on the leavings of the ghouls. If 
the rats outnumber the PCs, they 
attack. Bats on the ceiling are disturbed 
by noises, and create a great enough 
clamor to alert the ghouls. 


Giant rats (11): AC 7; MV 12"/6"; 
HD V% hp 2, 2,1, 2, 4,1, 4,1, 2, 3,4; # AT 
1; Dmg ld3; SA disease; AL N; XP 9 
each. 


5. The Pits 

The ghouls keep their live victims here 
as a sort of "larder" for use in hard 
times. A wide, snake-filled trench fills 
the passageway to the pits. The snakes 


are difficult to spot in the rubbish filling 
the trench (a 2 in 6 chance if the PCs 
scan the pit for traps). The snakes are 
normal sized, but deadly poisonous. A 
character who enters the trench is 
attacked by ld4 snakes each round. If 
bitten, a character must make a saving 
throw vs. poison or take 3d6 damage. 
Characters who make their saves take 
Vi damage. 

Each of the four pits is 15' deep, 
carved into stone, and covered by flat, 
heavy stones that were obviously once 
tombstones. One is empty, two contain 
living victims and the fourth contains a 
starving ghoul, a former victim who has 
just recently died. One victim is a local 
farmer's son, and the other is a traveler 
who spent the night too near the grave 
yard. Both are sick, and the traveler is 
gravely wounded. 

The ghoul imitates the cries of the 
sick victims. When its pit is opened, it 
reaches out with surprise (3 in 6 
chance) and grabs the closest character 
by the neck (up to four attack chances) 
and drags the character in. Anyone 
who witnesses this must make a Horror 
Check. 


Ghoul (1): AC 6; MV 9"; HD 4; hp 6; 
# AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6; SA paraly- 
zation; SD immune to sleep and 
charm; AL CE; XP 109. 


17 





























Victims (2): AC 10; MV 6"; HD 0; 
hp 2, 3; # AT 1; Dmg ld3; AL N; XP 7 
each. 

Snakes (12): AC 6; MV 9"; HD V 2 ; 
hp variable; # AT 1; Dmg ld3; SA poi 
son; AL N; XP 8 each. 


6. Ghout Goobies 

The ghouls have collected a modest 
treasure apart from Rugen Phi mister's 
hoard (area No. 7). They have buried it 
under refuse in this chamber. However, 
except for a path around the room's 
edge, the floor is loosely packed earth 
and trash, hiding sharp stakes. Anyone 
who walks here will sink down and do 
themselves ld4 damage on the spikes 
and have a 25% chance to contract a 
disease. 

The treasure includes: 3,000 cp, 1,100 
sp, 2,000 ep, two gems (50 gp each), and 
an enameled box containing two darts 
of homing. 

7. The CnypTs of The Holey 
Fathers 

Silent skulls stare bleakly from wall 
niches where priests of long ago were 
laid to rest. Torchlight glitters upon pol 
ished gold and silver plates, candelabra, 
and statuary set out on a huge trestle 
table like a banquet for a king. Yet no 
king sits here, only a grostesque mock 
ery of man, a grossly fat ghoul. And 
what is set before him is a meal fit only 
for madmen. 

This is the ghast Rugen Phi mister's 
lair. Here, he has collected his recent 
treasures, taken from local graves, dis 
tant tombs, and other worlds. The 
"food" on the table is corpse parts, 
many quite fresh. Rugen the ghast will 
be eating with gusto while his two 
ghoul guards pounce upon his castoffs. 
Looking at the "food" and feasting 
requires a Horror Check. 

Rugen's description and those of his 
two ghoul and one ghast guards are to 
be found in "The Night Gallery" section. 
If it looks like he can win a fight, Rugen 
will fight, otherwise he will barter for 


his life (or unlife). 

Rugen's treasure is large and quite 
cumbersome (very little of it is coin). Six 
golden candelabra at 500 gp each; three 
golden place settings (dishes and flat- 
ware) at 100 gp each; 10 ornamental 
religious statues of gold, silver, and 
gems worth a total of 8,000 gp; a leather 
satchel containing 100 harbor moons (a 
Waterdeep coin of platinum and elec- 
trum worth 25 gp in Waterdeep, but 
only 10 gp anywhere else); two 500 gp 
gems; six pieces of jewelry 2 x 500 gp, 3 
x 1,000 gp, 1 x 2,500 gp, an elixir of 
madness, potion of speed, potion of 
healing, scroll of protection: undead, 
spell scroll: one third-level spell, spell 
scroll: one second-level spell (all spells 
DM's choice); and a map. The map 
reveals a location where Rugen stored 
his ill-gotten tax money when alive. He 
can no longer remember where he hid 
it or decipher the map. The treasure is 
hidden in a cave near the village; sev 
eral mechanical and deadfall traps 
guard the treasure, as do the fierce 
grizzly bears who make the cave their 
lair. The treasure is worth 3,000 gp, 
mostly silver, copper, and jewelry. 

8. Door IkjTo DarIckjoss 

A pair of 20'-tall, intricately carved pil 
lars stand half buried in the chamber's 
center. Magical runes (if read) reveal 
them as the plinths of a gate, a conduit 
to another plane. The ultimate destina 
tion is up to the DM, but given Rugen 
Phimister's background, the Abyss or 
Tarterus are likely end terminals. 

Ecology of Ghouls 
Atob GbasTs 

The gnarled old priest stepped silently 
through the high grass and tumbled 
stones, picking out a path he knew well, 
even in the near darkness. Edging 
behind him like frightened children, a 
trio of young novices gingerly stepped 
around and over fallen grave markers 
and statuary. 

Abruptly, the old priest stopped and 
the first of the novices collided with his 


teacher, apologetically stepping back 
only to fall limbs askew into the cold 
arms of a smiling marble cherub. 

"Brother Felloman, why bring us to 
this graveyard, and at this hour of the 
night?" the irritated novice whispered, 
disentangling himself from the statue's 
embrace. "Surely there is nothing here 
that we cannot know from the scrolls in 
the temple's scriptorium." 

Felloman, gave the novice a stern 
glance and tugged at his own ear, then 
turned his attention to pouring water 
from a flask in circle around them. 
When the circle was complete, the 
water glowed momentarily. Young 
brother Amelior knew the look and the 
gesture and remained quiet, though he 
hoped the darkness hid the flush in his 
cheeks. 

"Watch," Felloman mouthed silently 
and crouched down into the tall grass. 
Amelior and his two fellows, Vortigur 
and Grendul, hunkered down into the 
grass with their teacher and waited. 

Something was with them in the 
graveyard. The rising hairs on the back 
of Amelior's neck bespoke the super 
natural. As he peered across the moon- 
dappled graves, a figure clambered 
silently into sight, shaking off dirt and 
grave mold like a dog sheds water, and 
clutching some prize to its chest. The 
thing (Amelior could not rightly call it a 
man) trotted a short distance from its 
hole and squatted. Red, feral eyes dart 
ed about, seeking any who would take 
its prize. 

"Grave robber," Vortigur gasped 
under his breath. Startled, the thing 
jumped up and looked wildly about. 
Dog-like, it sniffed the breeze, then 
froze. Red eyes focused directly on 
Amelior. He panicked, rose and tripped, 
falling outside the circle of protection. 
The thing was on him, smelling of 
death. Its touch burned like ice and fire 
together, and his limbs refused his call 
to flee. Amelior shrieked as filthy claws 
shredded his robe and raked his chest, 
while snaggled teeth ripped away at his 
shoulder. Old Felloman rose, shoving 
Mystra's encircled star before him, and 
just as quickly, it was over. Amelior lay 


18 












gasping and bleeding in the tombstones 
and the thing writhed spasmodically 
beside him, still clutching its grisly 
prize ... a rotting human arm, gnawed 
nearly to the bone. 

The moon was higher now. They 
retreated into an open mausoleum 
where brother Felloman called light 
into being. 

"I knew that man," Amelior said, 
scratching at new-healed flesh on his 
shoulder. "Well, I knew him when he 
lived and was a man. He was Wexelar, 
the moneylender. My father said he 
cheated folk of their livelihood. I think 
my father owed him a great deal of 
money. Wexelar died suddenly of the 
'plexy. I remember watching as they 
dumped his body in the earth. The old 
tale must be true then, that ghouls were 
once evil humans who preyed upon 
others in life and who died unblessed." 

"Indeed," said the old priest as he ban 
daged Am el i or's injured face. "It is 
lucky for you, young brother, that you 
did not die also. Victims who are killed 
by ghouls become ghouls themselves if 
they are not blessed before being bur 
ied." 

"It's not my place to pry, reverend 
brother," Amelior said as he glanced 
toward the mausoleum entrance, "but 
shouldn't you renew your protection 
spell? If ghouls beget other ghouls, I 
fear Wexelar may not be alone here." 

"You will do it, young Amelior." 

"Uh ... uh ... I, reverend one?" Amelior 
choked, wishing he had heard wrong. 
He had done it once before, but now 
hoped that Mystra could fill in the gaps 
in the prayers he only half remem 
bered. Hands shaking, he spilled the 
holy water in a rough circle around 
them, making sure to include the door. 
Clutching his "star" he mouthed the 
prayer. With a smiling sigh he collapsed 
to the floor. No ghoul could cross that 
magical barricade. 

Amelior's smile faded as glowing eyes 
gathered beyond the door. One, two, 
three pairs. He gagged, swallowing 
back sour bile. While two stayed back, 
one stepped casually into the light, a 
crooked smile cracking the scabs on its 


face as it hopped excitedly from leg to 
leg. 

"Circle-bright hurt frenzzz," it hissed, 
eyeing the damp stone. "Maybe it not 
lassst forever? Maybe warm flesh 
become cold soon, you think. Maybe we 
feast very soon?" 

Felloman stepped forward, present 
ing Mystra's holy star as before, but the 
ghoul-thing only cringed momentarily, 
then smiled until its face seemed it 
might crack under the strain. Stunned 
by his failure, the old man staggered 
backward. 

"Maybe circle bright keep back 
frenzzz, but not me, eh? What you 
think?" And with that, the ghast 
stepped through the ineffectual circle 
of protection. 

CReaXuRe Notes 

The ghoul is a human or demi-human 
who has risen from the grave to feed on 
human and other corpses. Some ghouls 
are self-made. In life, they were human 
predators who fed off the ill fortune of 
their fellow men. Their lives ended, yet 
their evil survived. Dying unblessed 
and buried unsanctified, they are 
cursed to continue feeding as ghouls. 

Ghasts are ghouls who have wander 
ed or been taken into the Abyss and 
gained superior powers due to expo 
sure to the intense evil there. Ghasts are 
used as hunting "dogs" by demons, and 
are often called the "Hounds of the 
Abyss." Occasionally, they are set free 
and rejoin ghoul packs as leaders. 

Still, most ghouls and ghasts are the 
victims of other ghouls and ghasts, folk 
who died of wounds inflicted by those 
undead monsters. If victims are not 
blessed, they rise again in three days as 
ghouls, under the control of their slay 
er. Furthermore, unblessed victims 
may neither be resurrected nor rein 
carnated. 

The energy of the Negative Material 
Plane imbues ghoul and ghast alike 
with a chilling, paralyzing touch. The 
effect of this touch is to disrupt the vic 
tim's nerve synapses. Occasionally the 
paralyzation affects only a limb, 


restricting movement, spell-casting, 
and combat. More often than not, the 
entire body is affected. Rather than 
simple immobility, the victim suffers a 
terrible seizure and may thrash about 
for minutes before the muscles no long 
er respond and the victim is paralyzed. 

The duration of the paralyzation 
depends on the victim's Constitution. 
Subtract the victim's Constitution from 
20 and add ld6 if the attacker is a ghoul 
and 2d6 if the attacker is a ghast. The 
result is the number of rounds that the 
paralysis lasts. Once the paralysis 
wears off, the victim's dexterity is 
reduced by 2d6 for an equal number of 
turns (not rounds). DMs may wish to 
make reduced dexterity a side effect 
that continues until a special herbal 
elixir is imbibed, made of rare healing 
herbs. 

Elves are immune to the ghoul's 
touch. The presumed reason stems 
from the belief that elves are descen 
dants of the god Corellon Larethian. 
Elven lore states that the purity of an 
elf's bloodline makes him heir to the 
god's gift of immunity, wrenched from 
the demons defeated in the time of 
myths and legends. As legend goes, the 
gift once extended to an immunity to all 
undead, but now only protects against 
the lesser powers of the ghoul (ghasts, 
with their greater power, can paralyze 
even an elf who fails to make a saving 
throw vs. paralyzation). Half-elves gain 
no protection against either ghoul or 
ghast. 

Ghouls and ghasts exist only to eat. All 
else is secondary to a hungry ghoul or 
ghast. Ghouls and ghasts must have 
human flesh to survive. They attack the 
living only when corpses are not to be 
had, or in self defense. They find animal 
flesh unpalatable. The flesh they eat 
maintains their physical bodies and 
their energy connection with the Nega 
tive Material Plane. 

It is possible for a ghoul or ghast to be 
starved out of existence. It may go with 
out food for seven days before it feels 
the effects of starvation. A starving 
ghoul or ghast loses one hit point per 
week, and ceases to exist when it has no 


19 










more hit points, its soul passing onto 
torment in the Abyss. 

In a similar vein, ghouls and ghasts 
are not immortal. Because they are 
physical beings, they are subject to 
eventual decay. Most ghouls do not 
exist for more than 200 years. Even so, 
uncommon specimens have been found 
over 1,000 years old. The evil enhance 
ment of the ghasts allows them to exist 
for 500 years or more-though ghasts 
who remain in the Abyss are nearly 
immortal. 

Ghouls are superb hunters and track 
ers' (tracking as fifth-level rangers). 
Ghasts are better still, and track like 
seventh-level rangers (see UNEARTH 
ED ARCANA). They track by sight, 
sound, and especially smell. 

They prefer to hunt in packs, gibber 
ing and yammering as they relentlessly 
pursue their prey. They never give up a 
pursuit. Whether they are alone or in a 
pack, ghouls and ghasts are fearless, 
willing to chance all for a tasty treat. 

Ghouls are burrowers and tunnelers. 
It begins when they are "born"-a bur 
ied ghoul must dig its way out of its 
grave. Common ghoul tunnels are little 
more than crawlways, letting the ghoul 
creep its way to its next meal. Ghoul 
warrens may form vast networks 
beneath graveyards and nearby towns. 
Many tunnels in these warrens are 
enlarged to allow a upright stance. 

The process which transforms a 
man's soul, mind, and body into a ghoul 
leaves little left of what was once the 


man. Its face takes on a canine aspect, 
developing an extended muzzle full of 
sharp, discolored teeth. Even so, those 
who knew the victim well may still see 
the the man within the monster. 

Hands and feet become clawlike, 
while rank, oozing sores erupt on the 
body, scabbing over with scale-like 
hardness. In the ghast, these scaly sores 
exude an odious, nauseating, carrion 
stench so powerful that it causes retch 
ing and nausea in those nearby (within 
10' and failing a saving throw vs. poi 
son). 

Likewise, the ghoul's mind is warped 
out of shape. A cunning, predatory 
semi-sentience overrides the victim's 
personality, essentially replacing what 
is lost by the horror of transformation. 
Remnants of the creature's mind 
remain intact, but the ghoul (or even 
the ghast) rarely realizes (nor accepts) 
that it is dead-the last vestiges of the 
mind cannot accept that it thrives upon 
human carrion. The subsequent trans 
formation to ghast reawakens the crea 
ture's intelligence. Some may actually 
be personable, more prone to conversa 
tion than conflict (though they are still 
undeniably evil and more than a little 
insane) -so long as one avoids discus 
sing their ghoulishness or insisting that 
they have died. 

Bereft of sanity, ghouls and ghasts are 
all afflicted with some form of mental 
aberration (selected from the insanities 
in the DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE). 
Common afflictions include paranoia, 


hallucinations, megalomania or delu 
sional insanity, monomania, and split 
personalities. 

Ghouls are kept back by a simple pro 
tection from evil spell. However, cold 
iron must be used as a part of the spell if 
a ghast is to be repelled-pure, unal 
loyed iron, as close to elemental iron as 
possible. 

Paralysis Hit Location Table 

ld8 roll Hit Effect 
location 

1-2 Right armNo. 1 (see below) 

3-4 A leg No. 2 (see below) 

5-6 Left arm No. 1 (see below) 

7-8 Full body No. 3 (see below) 

No. 1: Character may not cast spells 
having somatic components. If this is 
the character's weapon arm, melee is 
impossible (85% of all people are right- 
handed). If this is the character's "oppo 
site" hand, a shield may not be used. 

No. 2: Each round, the character 
must make a Dexterity Ability Check to 
stay on his or her feet. Dexterity 
bonuses to armor class are lost. DM 
may wish to choose the affected leg. 

No. 3: Character is fully paralyzed, 
though subject to spasmodic seizures. 
Movement and combat are impossible. 
If the victim does not make a Constitu 
tion Ability Check, he does himself ld3 
points of damage. 

(Special thanks to Vince Garcia for his 
article, "A Touch of Evil," in DRAGON(r) 
Magazine, issue #126. 


20 
















THE TOMBS OF DECKON THAR 


Monster: Wight 
Terrain: ruins 

Party Levels: 40 (Average 3-4) 

Gold X.P.: 

Treasure X.P.: 

Monster X.P.: 

Kill: 2071 Defeat: 1553 

Retreat: 518 

This adventure is set in the North of 
the Forgotten Realms, where the tombs 
of a long-dead culture have sat alone in 
a hidden valley for centuries. The 
adventure is meant for characters of 
between third and fourth level and the 
total number of levels of members of 
the party should be between 36 and 48. 
At least one character should be a 
fourth-level. Good cleric. 

HIsTory 

After the breakup of the Lost Kingdom, 
a bandit culture took root in the moun 
tains between what is now Silverymoon 
and Sundabar. Even then, these were 
relatively large population centers 
which traded between themselves, and 
the Chieftains in Gold, as the bandits 
called themselves, grew rich either 
raiding the trading caravans or charg 
ing high tolls for their safe passage, 
depending on how accommodating the 
rulers of the trading lands were. 

For eight generations these chieftains 
led their people in this activity, but 
eventually they were caught in the path 
of an ore horde and are said, in ballads, 
to have died fighting to the last man, 
woman, and child. 

The ores looted the chieftains' great 
keep in the mountains, but no one has 
ever discovered the tombs of the seven 
chieftains who died before the ore inva 
sion. 

The Ravaged CaRavaw. 

Recently, a trading party, driven off its 
trail by unseasonal storms, discovered 
a hidden mountain valley containing 
what looked like burial mounds. The 
traders took refuge in the buildings 
that guarded these tombs. During the 


night, monsters attacked and dragged 
three caravan workers away. The cara 
van leader and his men searched the 
area the next morning but could find no 
trace of monsters or victims. 

They left the valley, but marked its 
location on their maps and left a cairn 
to mark its hidden entrance. 

Setup 

• The simplest is to say that one of 
the victims from the caravan is a rela 
tive or friend of one of the player char 
acters. The characters will seek 
revenge, and/or an attempt to find the 
victim before the monsters can destroy 
him (unlikely, but perhaps worth the 
try). 

• Another method, meant for the 
more avaricious, is to have someone 
who hears the story (or some player 
character doing some research) learn 
that the valley is known in ancient leg 
ends as the Tombs of the Chieftains in 
Gold. The ancient nation that used to 
exist here was known to bury its chief 
tains in great state. The caravan leader 
saw no sign of grave robbing-but the 
place was covered with snow. 

• Finally, the DM may just ignore the 
previous story of the trading caravan. 
Drive the adventurers into the valley 
with a storm, and let them do their own 
exploring and perhaps be attacked at 
night by the ever-lurking wights. 

The VaLLey 

The Tombs of Deckon Thar (named 
after the first of the royal line to be bur 
ied here) are nestled in a box canyon on 
a western mountain slope. The 
entrance to the valley is along a narrow, 
twisted trail. The entrance is obscured 
by brush, but it is marked by a cairn, 
which was erected by the trading cara 
van. (If the party is not following up the 
traders' story, the cairn is still there. 
The party just never heard the traders' 
story.) 


As you clear the brush away from 
the entrance, you realize that it leads 
to a defile going right into the cliff 
face. You can only enter single file, 
leading any animals you have 
brought with you. You can see that 
there are ledges and crevices above 
you that might hold ambushers, but 
it would take a good climber to reach 
any of them from where you are. 


The party may think that this narrow 
defile looks perfect for an ambush. 
However, there is no ambush, and they 
can get through safely. 


When you reach the other end of the 
defile, you can see the valley dips 
drastically away from you, then 
starts to climb again toward the 
mountain cliffs at the back. As you 
look at the valley with the setting sun 
at your backs, you can see two 
ruined buildings that still have most 
of their walls and some of their 
roofs. Beyond the buildings are sev 
en large mounds, each of which 
looks large enough to hold a small 
raiding ship. 

Six of the mounds are arranged in 
three rows of two each, and the cen 
ter of this formation leads directly 
from the sturdier of the two ruins 
toward the seventh, and largest, 
mound. 

The closest edifice to your entry 
point is the more mined of the two 
buildings. 


The FirsT Bu)L<b)wg 

This building is at the end of a twisty 
trail that takes the party a hundred feet 
or so down from the valley mouth to 
the building. When the party arrives, 
the sun is going down below the hills to 
the west. 

Looking at the building from the out 
side, you realize that its wooden roof 
is just about gone, the wood and 


21 







Uo opcwlHG 10 VMlS? 


T'Oli* 


A. ChIhjhct 
IVCfrinisq Room 
C. [juMfl Rwh 
It fimt: 

c ConahHf kHiHJw 


wiQHt 


LAIR 


plaster walls are disintegrating. 
From the outside, you see that it had 
one wide door (no longer present) in 
the middle of one long wall, and 
normal-sized doors (also gone) at 
each end. You can see the ruins of a 
wooden fence that enclosed an area 
outside the wide doors. 

There is no sign of any life but the as 
sorted birds, rodents, lizards, and in 
sects you would expect to find in such a 
place. The daylight is about gone. 

If the party decides to camp outside, 
ignore the following until they actually 
do look inside the building. 


Looking inside, you see that the cen 
ter portion was one large room. The 
long walls were broken up into 
smaller rooms about big enough to 
hold a horse. In fact, you realize that 
you are looking into the ruins of a 
stable. At each end of the building is 
a small room that was obviously a 


tack room. Now they are the homes 
of many different small animals, 
most of which leave when you enter. 
You can see that there are places 
where the wall has broken down, 
leaving holes, throughout the build 
ing. If this is a stable, then the for 
merly fenced-in area outside was 
probably the paddock. 

Players who make a very careful 
examination (taking about an hour in 
daylight) of the northernmost tack 
room will find the remains of a silver bit 
from a bridle that could fetch 20 gp for 
its workmanship. Everything else is rot 
ted or rusted away. 

If the party decides to settle down in 
this building or in the relatively clear 
area in front of the building (where the 
paddock used to be) go to "First Night!' 

If the party decides to continue and to 
explore the second building, which is 
about 300' away, remind them that the 
night is closing in fast, and they should 
set up camp. 


The S&aoKtb Bu)L<b)wg 


This rectangular building looks like a 
great hall or mead hall. There is a 
porch running around the building, 
two doors in each long wall, and one 
door in each short wall. Its walls are 
wood and plaster, but reinforced 
with rock; its roof is obviously of 
higher quality than the barns. Nev 
ertheless, it, too, is falling apart. 

As the player characters look at the 
outside, add details of cracks in the 
walls, rotted wood in the porch floor, 
and a general feeling that the place will 
probably last until the next storm, but 
then all bets are off. Fortunately, no fur 
ther storms are expected for months. 

If the party enters: 


Whatever walls used to divide up the 
central room of this building have 
not lasted as well as the exterior. The 
building is one large room with what 


22 






















were obviously once closet beds 
along the wall. Three of these are 
still intact. If any of you desire pri 
vacy, you can throw out the debris 
that had been the bed and lay out a 
bedroll in the closet. There just is 
enough room for two humans to 
sleep side by side. There is plenty of 
room for a score or more to sleep in 
the central room. In the center of the 
stone-paved floor is a large fire pit 
with the remnants of a fire about a 
month old. 


If the party has been exploring this 
building after the barn, the sun has 
gone down. They can either camp here, 
back at the barn, or in the paddock. 
One assumes they will not decide to 
sleep among the burial mounds. 

In the fire pit are the remains of a fire 
set by the trader caravan when it was 
there. This is where the traders were 
attacked by monsters. 

Careful examination of the fire pit 
reveals an opening hidden by a rock 
that looks like it is part of the bedrock, 
but isn't. It is a tunnel big enough to 
allow a man to crawl through like a 
snake. If a party member wants to 
crawl in, see "In the Tunnels." 

If this party consists entirely of elves, 
half-elves, and dwarves-all capable of 
seeing in the dark-remind them that 
they have been traveling and climbing 
all day. Perhaps it is time to rest. 

FirzsT Night 

Assuming the party settles down to 
camp, it will probably set up guards and 
the rest of the group will go to sleep. 
About three hours before dawn, the 
wights strike! They do nothing if the 
party has continual light spells lighting 
the area. 

Use a group of wights that is half the 
number of the adventurers. The 
wights' purpose is to sneak into the 
camp, find an isolated victim (anyone 
sleeping in the remains of a stall or in 
one of the great hall's closet beds is an 
excellent target, and the wights know 


just how to enter these unobserved) 
and eat his life energy until he is dead. If 
it seems possible, they will attempt to 
drag the body out of the camp so the 
victim can turn into a half-wight undis 
turbed. 

While wights can detect the presence 
of life, they cannot tell the difference 
between targets who are awake and 
asleep. Thus, they may try to grab a 
guard who is not moving, or a charac 
ter whose player has specified he is 
staying awake. They are smart enough 
not to grab someone apart from the 
others (unless they are in a stall or 
sleeping closet), because these are prob 
ably guards, no matter how still they 
are. They also do not go after horses, 
because horses don't have the right sort 
of life energies. 

If the victims put up a struggle and 
alert the rest of the party, the wights 
scatter, heading for their tunnels. If the 
characters are foolish enough to follow 
them in at night, see "In the Tunnels." 

In the dark, the wights look like rock- 
hard, humanoid forms. A life drain vic 
tim who is not killed and/or carried 
away can explain what has happened to 
him. Unless the characters have seen 
wights before, there is no need to name 
them to the players. Be as vague as pos 
sible. Give them descriptions that could 
just as easily cover ghouls or zombies or 
trolls or really ugly hobgoblins. 

If a cleric tries to turn the attackers 
away and succeeds, he will know they 
are undead. Don't tell him what roll he 
needs, just watch his roll and tell him if 
he is successful or not. Better yet, roll 
the turn undead attempt yourself, so he 
doesn't know how successful he was. 

Holes )nj The EaRth 

When fleeing pursuit or a successful 
turning, or taking off a victim, the 
wights run to the holes leading to the 
tunnels that intertwine throughout the 
valley. There are holes beneath the fire 
pit of the great hall, outside the walls of 
the hall and outside the walls of the 
barn. There are no holes to the tunnels 
that lead directly into the paddock area. 


Each hole has a rock over it that looks 
like a normal one, long since packed 
into the surrounding earth. The stone 
covers have been carefully shaped by 
the wights to look like thick rocks bur 
ied deep in the earth. 

When a wight leaves the hole to 
attack someone on the surface, it leaves 
the rock off of the hole so it can make a 
quick getaway. 

Each wight goes to a different hole if 
possible, tossing any victims into the 
hole first, then jumping in after them. 
While these wights have no real vision, 
they have long ago memorized the area 
and know exactly where to throw and 
where to jump. If they are not being 
pursued, they carefully place the cap 
back on the hole. 

Each hole is a narrow shaft just big 
enough for a person wearing nothing 
but rags to fit in. Normal men and 
dwarves wearing armor will have to 
shed their protection or widen the 
holes. Elves, gnomes, and halflings have 
no trouble fitting. 

The shaft goes down 10' to a connect 
ing tunnel. Read the following to any 
one jumping in a hole directly after a 
wight. 


You drop down a narrow shaft, your 
clothes or armor scraping on the 
sides. You hit the floor 15' down, but 
the scrape of the walls obviously 
slowed you down enough so that 
you didn't take any damage. You 
seem to be in a pit, except for one 
wall, which opens up into a narrow 
tunnel. You think it runs roughly 
east and west. You can hear the mon 
ster running away down the tunnel 
to the east. Even as your eyes adjust 
to the dark, you realize that the only 
light illuminating the tunnel is the 
reflected light from above you. Oth 
erwise the tunnel is totally dark. 

The wight is not trying to be silent. 
However, unless the character can see 
in the dark or somehow managed to 
bring a torch with him while chasing 
the wight, he cannot see a thing. 


23 
















If the character is going into the hole 
cautiously following after a wight, or 
just because the party found the hole 
(same chance as for secret doors), use 
the description above, but drop the 
comments about the wight. 

The NexT Day 

If the party is not attacked the first 
night because of how it is are set up or 
having continual light spells illuminat 
ing it, the characters can explore the 
whole valley easily. It is a pleasant place, 
full of grass and copses of trees, still 
enjoying the benefits of that recent 
unseasonal storm which brought in lots 
of water for the plants. 

In fact, looking very carefully (druids, 
rangers, and elves would be best for 
this), party members can see (using the 
same chance as for secret doors) what 
seem like twisted lines running through 
the grass. They can realize that this 
phenomenon is caused by the stunted 
nature of those plants that are along 
these lines, and it doesn't seem to have 
any connection to the type of plant or 
the soil directly under the plant. It's 
almost as if there is something under 
the topsoil (actually there is) that makes 
the plants not grow as well as they 
should under these conditions. 

These lines are about 3' wide and do 
not seem to follow any particular pat 
tern except that they avoid any large 


rock outcroppings. 

The Bur)A t Moustbs 

The seven large mounds seem to follow 
the pattern of burial mounds elsewhere 
in the Forgotten Realms. They are cov 
ered with grass and other shallow- 
rooted plants and creepers, but seem 
thoroughly intact. There is no immedi 
ate evidence of the grave robbing so 
common elsewhere. Of course, this is 
an isolated location, probably picked 
because it was unlikely to attract grave 
robbers. 

However, closer examination reveals 
that there is a tunnel dug into the west 
side of the middle of the northern 
mounds. Perhaps some grave robbers 
have been here. The tunnel is over 
grown with brush and plants, but 
hasn't filled in. 

None of the other mounds show any 
evidence of tampering. 

G&st&RAt D&scR)pTiohos- The 
FLoor PIas) 

Each of the mounds is about 100' 
long, 45' wide, and built to the same 
floor plan. The seventh mound is slight 
ly longer (about 140') and wider (about 
60'), and its internal rooms are larger, 
but the floor plan is the same. 

Each room in the mound has a hard- 
packed earthen floor, rocks lining the 


walls, and thick wooden beams holding 
up the ceiling (the beams are only about 
half rotted). 

Entrance. 

This is a passageway that has been filled 
with rocks and earth. It is, in fact, 
harder to get through this passageway 
than it is to dig through the walls, if the 
characters have digging tools. The pas 
sageway is 10' deep, the walls are all 
about 10' thick but consist of a higher 
ratio of earth to rock than found in the 
passageway. 

Strong men can move the rocks out of 
the passageway at a rate of 1' per hour 
for every 10 points of Strength over 10 
applied. No more than three people can 
fit into the passageway to work on it at 
once. 

Alternately, if the party has tools such 
as shovels and picks, the party can dig 
into a mound at a rate of 1' per 10 
Strength applied per hour. No more 
than three characters can work on one 
tunnel at a time. Without the proper 
tools, there is little the party can do to 
dig through the walls, and they're bet 
ter off clearing the passageway. 

Offering Room. 

This room holds items offered by the 
chieftain's followers to honor him in 
death. Much of the stuff has rotted or 
rusted away. Some items like chairs or 


24 














hangings look good as new, but crum 
ble at a touch. 

Anything of value in any of these 
rooms has been added to the treasure 
in the Hall of the Mound King. 

The Guard Room. 

One thing this culture believed was that 
a dead chieftain needed a proper honor 
guard. This room holds earthen plat 
forms, about 2' off the ground, on 
which two to four of the chieftain's fol 
lowers laid themselves to die when 
their chieftain died. Sometimes the 
already slain bodies of followers were 
put on these platforms when a leader 
died in battle along with most of his 
men. 

There are no bodies on the platforms. 
However, explorers can find the rusted 
remnants of chain mail shirts and 
swords on the platforms, as well as the 
imprint of long-rotted leather under 
garments and fastening thongs. 

There are earthenware jars holding 
rotted offerings of grain and other 
items meant to help the spirits of the 
dead on their journey to the afterlife. 

The Resting Place. 

This is where the chieftain was laid on 
another earthen platform. His resting 
place was covered by a valuable fur 
which has long since rotted away. Again 
there is no body, but there are rem 
nants of the dead chieftain's armor and 
weapons. However, there is a 15% 
chance in each resting place that the 
wights missed some item of value that 
the party could find in a corner. Use the 
DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE to deter 
mine the value of the item. 

One of the mounds shows signs of a 
break-in by grave robbers. Following 
the tunnel dug into the side of the 
mound, the party finds the shovels and 
picks used for the grave robbing scat 
tered in the guard room of the mound 
at the end of the tunnel. There are no 
bodies, but there are some signs of a 
struggle. The metal of the tools is long- 
rusted-the grave robbers came by a 
long time ago. They didn't leave. 


Rujowljog IkjTo WlgbTs 

The wights prowl their old tombs on 
occasion in groups of two to five. If they 
detect the adventurers, they wait along 
the wall of a room in the mound and 
attack as the characters come next to 
them. If they are losing, and have the 
opportunity to run, they do so. 

Use the following table to determine 


if wights are encountered 
ular burial mound. 

in any partic- 

Location 

Roll ldlO* 

First mound 

1-2 

Second mound 

1-4 

Third mound 

1-5 

Fourth mound 

1-6 

Fifth mound 

1-7 

Sixth mound 

1-8 


• If the wights win, the adventure is 
over. If the adventurers win, killing all 
the wights, they have the same chance 
of running into a wight group in later 
mounds. If wights get away, the party 
finds no more wights in the mounds 
until it gets to the last one (whichever 
one it is), where it is attacked by all the 
remaining wights. These wights use the 
tunnels to split up into two groups and 
attack simultaneously from two sides. 

If this attack does not seem to be 
working, the wights run back to the 
tunnels and retreat, running to Vin- 
jarek, the great wight, for his leader 
ship. 

Oth&K Ways IkjTo The Tombs 

Besides following the grave robber tun 
nel or digging into a tomb themselves, 
the only way adventurers can get into a 
tomb is by the tunnels. The warren of 
tunnels dug by the wights has 
entrances into each of the rooms of 
each of the mounds. Like the outside 
tunnels, the entrances are big enough 
for a man to crawl through very care 
fully and are covered by one of the 
rocks that line the walls of the mound 
rooms. 

Also like the outside tunnels, these 
holes drop the person down a shaft for 
about 10', which leaves him in a hole 
looking into a tunnel which winds off in 


at least two directions. Occasionally 
(see the map), the tunnel just leads 
directly away from the shaft, which is 
the end of the line. 

These entrances to the tombs are 
very obvious from the tunnels. There is 
no attempt to hide them from the tun 
nel side. 

As described before, there is no light 
in these tunnels, since wights don't 
need it. 

Ikj The TuiojoeLs 

These tunnels have been dug by the 
wights over the centuries since they 
first came to this valley. The wights just 
use their hands and their great 
strength, attacking the softer pockets 
of rock and earth and avoiding the 
harder stone, so the tunnels are contin 
ually twisting without more than 10' of 
straight passage. 


You are in a snaky little tunnel with 
very little walking space. Tall mem 
bers of the party (over 6' tall) have to 
bend over, and even humans of nor 
mal height feel a need to duck down 
for fear of running into something in 
the ceiling. The walls are irregular, 
and the ceiling is barely supported 
by occasional strategically placed 

logs- _ 

There are occasional open spots where 
massed wights can ambush the party if 
they have not already done so in one of 
the burial mounds. The wight tactic is 
to blend into the walls of the chamber 
and let most of the party in before step 
ping out to attack. 

They will only do this in chambers 
with more than two exits, so they know 
they have the chance to get away to 
report back to Vinjarek. 

The Topography of the Tunnels 

The tunnels are continually changing 
depth, rising and falling to match the 
contours of the softer rock through 
which they are dug and the harder rock 
they avoid. Frequently one wall of the 


25 












tunnel is packed earth and the other is 
hard rock that the wights found while 
digging. 

The chambers can be above or below 
the level of the tunnel coming into 
them. Some of the chambers have 
streams running through them and/or 
pools in their centers. 

Hall of The Mouw<b King 

This is not in the king mound, but 
underneath in a tunnel. Vinjarek, the 
great wight, waits here, +3 frost-brand 
broad sword in hand. He has assembled 
all his remaining followers to help him 
in this last fight. 


You enter a large underground 
cavern with no more light than any 
other place you have been in among 
these tunnels. The room is roughly 
oblong, and set out from the far wall, 
you see a chair made of stone that 
looks like a rough throne. 

If Vinjarek is waiting for them, read the 

following: 


A man-sized rock imbedded in the 
far wall crashes forward, revealing 
another tunnel beyond. Out of that 
tunnel steps another wight. This one 
is garbed in rotting chain mail armor 
and carries a sword that reflects 
your light like ice. 

"Welcome," rasps a voice that has 
obviously not been used for centu 
ries. "Your strong souls will warm 
me for years." He swings his sword 
up in both hands and attacks. 

The chamber is small enough that 
only one missile shot, or spell, can possi 
bly get off before Vinjarek is in the mid 
dle of the party, If a cleric without 
sufficient levels attempts to turn him, 
be sure to play up the ineffectiveness of 
the attempt (especially if it does affect 
the wights Vinjarek has accompanying 
him) and Vinjarek's delight in the 
attempt. He should laugh hoarsely and 
promise to take great delight in the soul 
of the cleric. 


The Enemies 

There are 16 wights and Vinjarek, the 
great wight. There are also three half 
wights who were members of the trad 
ing caravan killed and stolen by the 
wights some months ago. 

If the wights lose half their number 
(not counting the half-wights) and 
receive some warning of the coming of 
the adventurers, they will retreat to the 
throne room and prepare their defense 
around their leader. He will not venture 
out to find the adventurers. He knows 
they want his treasure, and he intends 
to catch them when they come for it. 


Vinjarek: AC 3; MV 12"; HD 7 + 3; 
hp 60; # AT 2; Dmg ld6 +2(fist)/ 
ld6 + 6*(sword); SA energy drain 
with fist; SD only magic / silver, no 
charm or hold spells; AL LE; XP 
1250. 

Wights (16): AC 5; MV 12"; HD 
4 + 3; hp 22; # AT 1; Dmg ld4; SA 
energy drain; SD only magic/silver, 
no sleep, charm, or hold spells; AL 
LE; XP 475 each. 

Half-wights (3): AC 7; MV 12"; 
HD 2 + 3; hp 12; # AT 1; Dmg ld3; SA 
energy drain; SD only magic/silver, 
no sleep, charm, or hold spells; AL 
LE; XP 346 each. 


Tactics: The wights have no missile 
or ranged attacks, they have to get close 
to an enemy to affect him. Thus, they 
use the ambush techniques described 
before, a stealthy approach to an 
unaware foe, or a headlong rush if 
there's no alternative. Note that they 
will not venture out of their tunnels 
except to try to catch sleeping adven 
turers. 

In the tunnels, ranged weapons and 
mass destruction spells have definite 
problems. There is no real way to use a 
bow in the narrow tunnels, and the 
chambers leave the adventurers facing 
a determined foe with no real room for 
arrow fire. The adventurers have to get 
to close quarters, which is all to the 
wights' advantage. 

Wights will not attack any party using 


a continual light spell for illumination in 
the outdoors. Light spells and torches 
do not bother them at any time. If a par 
ty is using a continual light spell on a 
staff or other item it is carrying under 
ground or in the mounds, the wights 
attack the continual light holder first 
and try to kill him and bury the light in 
the hard-packed earth or earthen walls 
or ceilings around them. Note that they 
are not hurt or even affected in their 
fighting ability by the continual light, it 
just irritates them. If they are backed 
up to the last chamber in which they 
can fight, they ignore the light and just 
fight. 

The half-wights have no problem 
with continual light at all, since their 
eyes are normal. 

The Mouw5 Kitog's TReastme 

The chamber beyond the throne cham 
ber of the tunnels is the treasure house 
of Vinjarek. All of the wight treasure is 
stored here. 

Since the wights have never had pos 
session of an all-metal box, all of the 
containers that held the various trea 
sure items rotted away long ago. The 
treasure is just scattered on the floor. 

Vinjarek's greatest treasure is never 
far from him. This is his sword. 

Deepchill- + 3, + 6 vs. fire users 
broadsword, INT 15, Lawful Neutral, 
detect secret doors in V2" radius, detect 
sloping passages in 1" radius, detect 
elevator/shifting walls/rooms in 1" radi 
us, speaks Lawful Neutral and Dwarf. 
Ego 13. 

This sword is only really happy 
underground. It used to belong to a 
dwarven king, who lost it in battle to 
the human king who was then buried in 
one of the mounds. It is not particularly 
happy with its current master, who 
can't even talk to it, but Vinjarek has 
complete mastery of the sword. 

Deepchill would rather belong to a 
dwarf, but anyone who spends a lot of 
time underground is all right. He pre 
fers to speak in dwarven. He only 
speaks the alignment language if abso 
lutely necessary. And, of course, he has 


26 
















nothing but disdain for anyone who 
does not speak either language. 

Also among the wights' treasures is a 
shield +2 that Vinjarek cannot use 
because the arm and handholds have 
rotted away, and a shiny spearhead. If 
fastened to a spear shaft, the spearhead 
becomes a spear +1. Its former shaft 
has rotted away. 

The fine leather scabbard that 
sheathed Deepchill rotted away long 
ago, but the treasure includes three 
matched gems which are worth 55 gp 
each, but 200 gp as a matched set. They 
used to be inset in the scabbard. 

There are also 47 other items of jew 
elry that have an average value of 150 
gp each (a total of 7050 gp in value). One 
of these items (worth 300 gp for the val 
ue as jewelry) is actually a ring of spell 
turning. Another brooch, worth about 
400 gp as jewelry, is actually a brooch of 
shielding. There is also a long sword 
+2, cursed berserking which had been 
the proud possession of one of the more 
warlike of the chieftains buried in these 
mounds. 

There is also 4,000 gp in gold ingots 
and trade weights, 10,000 sp in silver 
that used to be part of various items of 
jewelry, and 2,000 ep in coins. 

The EcoLocv of The 
Wight 

These notes on the wights of the For 
gotten Realms are taken from the writ 
ings of Jilda the Sage, a priestess of 
Oghma who has taken as her specialty 
the study of undead. When reading her 
dissertations on undead, however, one 
must remember that (11 all of her 
knowledge is taken second-hand, as she 
has never been an adventurer or seen 
most of the creatures about which she 
writes, and (2) being a daughter of roy 
alty, her social prejudices show in some 
of her conclusions. From the Notebooks 
of Jilda the Sage of Neverwinter: 

. . . Wights are formed from the 
bodies of men and women of noble 
birth who are buried in earthen tombs. 


There, their bodies are sought out by 
an evil spirit of power which has no 
way of interacting with the Prime Mate 
rial Plane unless he inhabits such a 
body. 

When the spirit inhabits the body, it 
halts the normal process of decay and 
instead works its magic to partially pet 
rify the body. When the body has the 
right balance of flesh and mineral, it 
can move again under the spirit's guid 
ance. The presence of the spirit also 
causes the body to exist on both the 
negative and normal planes of the mate 
rial plane, making it invulnerable to 
damage by any but silver or magic 
weapons. 

Why the spirit wants to return to a 
semi-fleshy form is unknown. Wights 
lead a dank and cheerless existence. 
They avoid sunlight or any bright light, 
and spend their extremely long lives in 
a maze of tunnels under the tombs that 
originally encased their bodies. 

The only relief for this cheerless 
existence is the occasional intrusion of 
living beings. These they attack without 
parlay or pity, trying to drain the life 
energies of the victims and make them 
into pale shadows of wights them 
selves. 

These pitiful victims are doomed to a 
long but not eternal existence with the 
remnants of their spirits bound to their 
slowly decaying bodies. They do not 
gain the rock-like skin of their masters 
because they are never petrified, and 
eventually they become too decayed to 
hold together and return to dust. 

What becomes of their spirits is still a 
matter of speculation. It is known that 
slaying such a creature releases its spir 
it in normal fashion; this has been con 
firmed with speak to dead spells. But 
whether the spirits of those half-wights 
(as they are known) that just finally dis 
solve are finally allowed to pass to other 
pastures is still undetermined. 

Entering a burial mound infested 
with wights is a risky undertaking. No 
matter how quietly a party moves, the 
wights seem to know they are there. 
Moreover, the wights themselves are 
very quiet movers, and often surprise 


even the most alert of parties. 

Many survivors of wight attacks 
speak of the creatures "coming out of 
the walls," which would lead one to 
believe they can tunnel through the 
earth. However, while they do tunnel 
out their mazes under the burial 
mounds, this seems the work of many 
months of painstaking labor, not the 
sort of thing one can use to surprise an 
adventuring party. 

The approach of wights, when seen, 
is a frightening sight indeed. They trav 
el hunched over, one hand on the wall 
or on the body of one of their com 
rades. They look something like zom 
bies or ghouls, but their skin is more 
rock-like in color and the colors can be 
as varied as those found in a limestone 
cavern; frequently, several colors are in 
stripes in the same body. 

Wights communicate in some fashion 
that has nothing to do with normal 
speaking. Many wights have been 
heard to wheeze and gasp and moan in 
the middle of combat or when they 
thought they were unobserved, but this 
does not seem to be a language. Indeed, 
many wights have been seen whose 
original bodies are such that they could 
not possibly speak. 

Sages theorize that the spirits com 
municate through interaction of their 
life forces. As such, this must take place 
at very close range, meaning that they 
have no real way of making themselves 
heard to other wights at long range. 

CReaTuRe NoTes 

1. Wights have eyes, but do not rely 
on them for sight. In fact, their eyes are 
so calcified that only a little light from a 
strong source can penetrate to the 
brain, which pains the spirit inhabiting 
the body. This is why they avoid sun 
light and other strong lights. 

However, wights have a strong sense 
of touch and an ability gained through 
the spirit inhabiting them to detect life 
energies. Any living creatures within 
120' of a wight immediately becomes 
perceptible to the wight, no matter how 
thick the walls might be between them 


27 










and their prey. 

If wights are in their normal tunnels 
and burial mounds (and they rarely 
travel out of them), they have memo 
rized all the passages, and can pinpoint 
just what route they must take to reach 
the life energies they have detected. 
Thus, no matter how quiet an adven 
turing band may be, the wights will 
know they are present and move to 
attack them. 

A side effect of their ability to detect 
life energies is their ability to detect the 
aura that a living intelligent body gives 
the valuables carried on the body. 
These attract wights at a range of about 
30' and the wights collect and hoard 
such objects-apparently for their aes 
thetic value as auras. 

They actually collect any such objects 
of value, but usually only those made of 
long-lasting, non-rusting substances, 
such as gold and silver and most gems, 
since wights do not maintain them. 

2. Wights are very stealthy in their 
movements. The chance of hearing 
them creep up on a party is only the 
same as the usual roll to find a secret 
door. 

They are also very adept at hiding in 
shadows, so that sometimes they are 
described as "coming out of the walls:' 
when they actually simply blended 
their earth-toned flesh into the walls 
around them and held incredibly still. 

3. Because of their undead nature, 
wights do not show up well on infravis 
ion. Thus, elves and dwarves have little 
better chance than humans of knowing 
there are wights in the neighborhood, 
unless the wights are in a warm room, 
where their cold bodies will stand out 
like statues against the warmed walls. 

4. Despite their obvious intelligence, 
most wights seem to have lost all ability 
to use weapons. Their attacks are 
smashing blows with their calcified 
hands, which incidentally puts the 
inhabiting spirit in contact with the 
aura of the target and lets the wight 
drain some of the soul energy of the vic 
tim. 

5. The reason why wights and other 
undead drain life energy from their vic 


tims is open to speculation. However, 
one theory is that the life energy of 
intelligent living creatures is what 
allows these creatures of two planes to 
move about in the Prime Material 
Plane. 

This would explain why such crea 
tures frequently seem almost statuelike 
and totally dead until living creatures 
are close enough to grab. The inhabit 
ing spirts are operating either on their 
own reserves or a residue of energy 
from their last victims. 

Also, it seems clear that absorbing a 
great deal of life energy allows a wight 
to grow more powerful, and slightly 
independent of its urges. A wight that 
has absorbed 20 life energy levels in a 
month gains in power and has a chance 
to become a great wight- a wight lead 
er. 

The number of energy levels that 
need to be absorbed and the benefits 
derived are shown in the Wight 
Advancement Table. 


Wight Advancement Table 


Energy Levels 

Hit Dice 

20 

5 + 3 

60 

6 + 3 

140 

7+3* 


• This is Vinjarek, the great wight 
described in "The Night Gallery." 

Wights of higher-than-normal hit dice 
are antagonistic to one another, but 
unless one has attained the stature of 
great wight, the rivals do not actually 
fight one another. However, once a 
wight has collected its 140th energy 
level, he wages a war against all the cur 
rent 5 + 3 and 6 + 3 hit dice wights to 
eliminate any competition. He also 
attempts to slay any wights who prog 
ress to 5 + 3 dice after the great wight 
has established his dominance. 

6. The wight spirits are effectively 
immortal. Slaying a wight with silver or 
magic weapons or most destructive 
spells simply sends the spirit off to find 
another body to inhabit. 

If a cleric destroys a wight by using 
his turn undead ability, the spirit is ban 


ished to the Negative Material Plane for 
a century before it can come back, but 
it is not killed. 

These spirits can be killed only on the 
Negative Material Plane or by a raise 
dead spell. 

7. A cleric can turn a half-wight with 
the same chance he can turn ghouls. 

The spirit of a half-wight that is slain 
or dissolves without ever draining a life 
energy level goes to whatever reward 
to which he normally would have gone. 
He can also be raised from the dead by a 
cleric of sufficient level. However, once 
the creature has stolen the life energy 
of a victim, its spirit becomes that of a 
wight. In effect, the creation of half 
wights is the wight reproduction sys 
tem. Raise dead will no longer work on 
this victim, though it will destroy the 
wight spirit. 

The half-wight is described thusly: 


FREQ uncommon; # APP 1-20; AC 7; 
MV 12"; HD 2 + 3; % IN LAIR 80; 
TREAS TYPE nil; # ATT 1; Dmg. Id3; 
SA energy drain; SD silver or magic 
weapons to hit; MAGIC RES as 
wights; AL LE; Size M; IN average; 
PSI nil; ATT/DEF MODES nil. 


Half-wights have to follow the orders 
of their creators. Once they have 
drained an energy level, they become 
willing wights. If they strike a target, 
they automatically drain energy. They 
still have some command of their com 
munication facilities, but wights rarely 
allow their half-wights who have not 
drained energy to get to a position 
where they might warn potential tar 
gets. 


28 










SHADOWS 


Terrain: Ruins 

Party Levels: 20 (Average fourth) 

Gold X.P.: 1,000 
Treasure X.P.: 2,000 
Monster X.P.: 

Kill: 2,790 Defeat: 2,092 
Retreat: 698 

Setup 

• A scholar approaches the PCs and 
hires them to recover a rare book he 
seeks. It is somewhere in the ruins of 
the walled city of Tor Mak, and he has 
provided them with a device which 
should simplify locating the item. 

• While traveling, PCs make camp at 
the edge of extensive ruins. In the 
morning they see several persons doing 
something in the wide avenue in the 
middle of the crumbled town. Sudden 
ly, the strangers are enveloped in a 
shadowy cloud. Faint cries come to the 
PCs' ears-and the cloud begins to move 
toward them. 

DM BAckgnouhjb 

Abv&stX uk& SummaRY 

The test of a modified cubic gate goes 
slightly awry, and shadows from the 
ruins of Tor Mak are drawn to the 
energy they sense from the kindred 
Demi-Plane of Shadow. The group then 
seeks out the nearest life forms they 
can drain of energy: the player charac 
ters. 

The TRAMSfoRmlNig Cubic 
GaTe 

Damien Nuren (see "The Night Gallery") 
has developed a device which will 
transform the user into a shade or 
shadow-person on the Demi-Plane of 
Shadows. The device is similar to a 
cubic gate, but is keyed only to the 
Shadow Plane. When the cube is acti 
vated, it transforms those nearby and 
opens a interplanar vortex to that place. 

If the device works properly, Damien 
will be able to continue his arcane 
researches for an extended time on the 
Plane of Shadow, and have a way of 


returning to normal when he is done. 
However, he wants an expendable per 
son or persons to field test the device. 
Watching from a safe distance by 
means of a wizard eye spell, Damien 
can observe whether or not the vortex 
appears and the device properly trans 
forms its users. He does not point this 
out to those he dupes into testing the 
cube for him. 

The Setup 

The person who approaches the PCs in 
the first setup situation is Damien 
Nuren. He claims to be a scholar in 
search of a rare philosophy book enti 
tled The Path of Peace, the last known 
copy of which lies in Tor Mak. His cube, 
he claims, is a direction-finding device 
that he has used many times before. 
The adventurers must go to the middle 
of the ruins and stand in the plaza 
there. Once the device is activated, it 
cannot fail to lead the PCs directly to 
the book. Damien will not accompany 
the party because, he explains, he bare 
ly escaped a leucrotta in the ruins a day 
or two ago, and fears to return. He 
awaits the party at the gatehouse out 
side the ruins. 

The wizard has chosen the center of 
Tor Mak for this experiment because he 
has calculated that the barrier between 
planes is especially unstable there, and 
it should be an easy matter to open the 
planar vortex in that place. Damien 
agrees to any kind of payment the party 
asks for their services, but does not 
intend to pay them after they have 
assisted him. 


Damien Nuren (12th-level 
magic-user): AC 8; MV 12"; HD xx; 
hp 28; # AT 1; Dmg ld6 +2; AL NE; 
XP 2,400; ST 13; IN 18; WI10; DX 12; 
CO 10; CH 14. 

Spells: charm person, feather fall, 
light, protection from good, knock 
x2, wizard lock x2, dispel magic x2, 
fly, lightning bolt, conjiision, dimen 
sion door, fear, wizard eye, hold 
monster, teleportation, wall of force, 


globe of invulnerability The wizard 
has a cloak of protection +2, a ring 
of negative energy protection, a ring 
of undead (shadow) control, and a 
quarterstaff +2. For more details, 
see "The Night Gallery." 

If the second setup is used, Damien 
Las two NPCs conduct this test for him. 
He observes their actions while out of 
sight at the other side of the ruins. PCs 
enter the action as described under 
"The Attack of the Shadow," below. 

The AdvewTuRe 

The Lay °f the Lam5" 

Widden Valley is a broad expanse of 
grassy fields and tree-lined hills. The 
narrow Widden River bisects the valley. 
To the south of it is the village of Meryn. 
To the north is the ruined city of Tor 
Mak. 

Tor Mak was once a prosperous place, 
a center of learning that was home to 
scholars and wizards. But the walled 
city was laid waste in the Goblin Wars, 
now long past. The fields surrounding 
it have long since reverted to wild 
grasslands, in places barely concealing 
a carpet of bones where goblins fell in 
vast numbers. The city walls are crum 
bled and collapsed, overgrown with 
young trees and clinging vines. The 
gates no longer stand, but the broad 
Avenue of Sages that once connected 
them runs through the middle of town. 
In the center of Tor Mak, the avenue 
widens out into the Grand Plaza. This 
square, like the rest of the avenue, is lit 
tered with scattered stonework, blown 
leaves, and the detritus of years. 
Throughout the city are piles of rubble 
and buildings that are collapsed or 
treacherously decayed. 

Animals and other creatures lair in 
Tor Mak. They are seldom seen during 
the day, but emerge to hunt at night. 
The threat of danger is real enough to 
keep beggars and casual explorers out 
of the ruined city. 


29 






Camp)K)g Atod ExptoizdDofo 

If the second setup is used, the PCs 
must camp somewhere close Tor or 
Mak. One likely place for them to do so 
is in one of the old gatehouses. They are 
fairly intact and weatherproof, and 
wayfarers sometimes shelter in them. 
The gatehouses are vacant when the 
PCs arrive. If the PCs choose to camp 
elsewhere, they should at least have a 
view into the ruined city and down the 
Avenue of the Sages in the morning. 

Exploration of Tor Mak is not neces 
sary for the purposes of this scenario. If 
characters wish to explore, DMs should 
note that any easily found valuables 
have long since been carried off. It 
requires considerable searching in haz 
ardous ruins to find anything worth 
while in the city. If PCs poke around Tor 
Mak in the course of this adventure, 
they are likely to encounter one or 
more of the following creatures: giant 
rat, wererat, huge spider, giant centi 
pede, osquip, shadow, leucrotta, jerm- 
laine. Experience points for such 
encounters are not included in the 
adventure total. 

The Cube of LocaT)ok> 

PCs who agree to locate the valued 
book for Damien the "scholar" receive 
the cube of location from him. The cube 
is 2" on each side. It is heavy, as if made 
of stone or lead, but is enameled in 
black on five faces and is made of silver 
on the other. Characters are instructed 
to press the silver face one time to acti 
vate the cube, and a second time to turn 
it off. Damien claims that the device will 
tug the holder toward the hiding place 
of the book. The cube can withstand 20 
points of damage before it is destroyed, 
and is allowed to save as a hard metal 
object vs. crushing blow. If the cube 
takes enough damage to be destroyed, 
it explodes in a 2d6 fireball affecting 
everything within a 20' radius. 

D'isAsTerz )kj The Grak)& 

PIaza 

When PCs start down the Avenue of the 


Sages, Damien stands just out of sight 
near one of the city gates and casts wiz 
ard eye to follow their progress. 
Though he doesn't want to risk his own 
neck near the experimental vortex and 
transformation, the wizard does want 
to see first-hand exactly what tran 
spires when the cube is activated. If PCs 
have insisted he remain in sight, he 
does so grudgingly, since he doesn't 
want to arouse their suspicion with his 
spell-casting. 

When PCs reach the Grand Plaza, 
about 400' from either gate, they are in 
the proper place to activate the cube. In 
fact, the cube functions in any location 
in which it is set off. If for any reason 
PCs decide not to use the cube, Damien 
remedies their lapse in judgment with a 
charm person spell. 

When the cube is activated, the char 
acter holding it gets such a powerful 
shock he is forced to drop it. The cube 
flies from his hands and rolls to a stop 
some distance from the party. Mean 
while, the party finds it is suddenly sur 
rounded by a large, roughly globular 
shadow 40' across. It has no substance 
and chills the PCs with its contact. Dim 
shapes move within the murky cloud, 
which swirls and roils around its center 
(a few feet from where the cube lies). 
Any characters entering the exact cen 
ter of the shadow-cloud step into the 
heart of the vortex; they are drawn into 
the Demi-Plane of Shadow and so exit 
this scenario. 

If PCs have camped at the ruins and 
watched NPCs activate the cube, they 
see the cloud form, the NPCs collapse, 
then a hint of something moving out of 
the cloud and in their direction. 

The Sbaibouu PLawe 

Though it may not be clear to the party, 
Damien recognizes immediately what 
has happened. His cube failed to trans 
form the adventurers into shadow- 
creatures, but has succeeded in 
opening a vortex that leads to the Demi- 
Plane of Shadow (see page 21, MANUAL 
OF THE PLANES and "Ecology of the 
Shadow," following). 


The Attack of The Sbaibouu 

One shadow from the Demi-Plane of 
Shadow attacks characters caught in 
the cube effect. If NPCs used the device, 
the shadow dispatches them quickly, 
then, by itself, heads for the PCs, wher 
ever they are. The shadow pursues its 
intended victim until it is destroyed, 
turned, or has killed its target. 


Shadow: AC 7; MV 12"; HD 3 + 3; 
hp 10; # AT 1; Dmg ld4 + 1; SA each 
hit drains 1 ST point, victim becomes 
shadow if his hp or ST reaches 0; SD 
+ 1 or better weapon to hit, unaf 
fected by sleep, charm, or hold spells 
and immune to cold-based attacks; 
AL CE; XP 465. 


The shadow chooses as its victim 
either the character with the greatest 
HP/Strength combination, or an NPC 
the DM judges expendable. If the char 
acter is slain, he becomes a shadow and 
returns to the vortex cloud with his 
slayer. 

If the shadow is killed or turned, PCs 
have a chance to notice that more of 
these undead are coming out of the 
ruins and gathering around the vortex. 
Shadows are very difficult to spot and 
the DM should make it clear that the 
PCs see only "hints" of movement, and 
"what might be" a shadowy form, 
unless the area is in bright enough light 
to show the shadows clearly. 

Damien, still posing as a scholar, seeks 
the party out immediately. He is dis 
turbed by the partial failure of his 
device, which he now wants to recover. 
To mollify the PCs, he admits the cube 
was an untested invention, but protests 
he had no idea it would do this. He asks 
the party to recover the cube from the 
shadow cloud, insisting that it must be 
used to deactivate the planar vortex 
before something more awful than 
shadows comes through it. As before, 
he agrees to any price to accomplish 
this, trusting to his own magic to get the 
cube from the PCs and escape with it 
later. 


30 











Ufel 

The undead shadows of Tor Mak all 
sense the planar rift in the Grand Plaza, 
and the presence of a great amount of 
both positive and negative energy 
which has suddenly appeared there. 
Drawn to investigate, the shadows 
gather near the vortex-but find, to 
their disappointment, that it does not 
offer them a source of life energy upon 
which they can feed. Yet the shadows 
sense a large concentration of life 
forces, more than have been near Tor 
Mak for some time. In a few moments, 
they realize that this force comes from 
the party of player characters-and the 
shadows of Tor Mak descend on the 
adventurers. 

Six shadows attack the party, minus 
any that have been slain or turned 
before. The shadows have 9, 10, 12, 15, 
16, and 21 hit points; all other statistics 
are as given above. If Damien is in the 
area, he retreats from the shadows' 
attack. 

The shadows are unaffected by the 
vortex, and their response does not 
alter if a PC reaches and deactivates the 
cube (thus closing the planar gate). 
Most of these undead are tied to the 
ruins of Tor Mak and cannot pursue 
characters beyond a quarter mile from 
the ruins. The exception is the first 
shadow which came from the Demi- 
Plane of Shadow; it is free to follow 
characters any distance to drain their 
life forces. 

Shad>oou Boy)tog 

If human characters are slain by the 
shadows, they become shadows in the 
ruins of Tor Mak. If the PCs are victori 
ous, they still have to deal with Damien 
Nuren. The "scholar" attempts to get Iris 
cubic gate back from the PCs. If PCs 
refuse to cooperate, he uses his spells to 
best effect. His most desperate measure 
is to touch the cube and teleport away. 
(His destination is described in "The 
Night Gallery" character sketch.) 


F)waT NoTe 

Damien dupes the PCs, then skips out, 
so no experience points are included in 
this adventure for his death or defeat. 
He returns for revenge if the PCs have 
kept or destroyed his cubic gate. 

The Ecology of the 

ShAdouD 

The wizard, Damien Nuren, frowned in 
thought. "I suppose I could help you 
with that," he said to Elegar, a young 
cleric-in-training. "Always happy to 
help the temple school, you know. But 
this is apt to be an unpleasant scene. 
May I ask if you wish to see it?" 

Elegar shrugged modestly. "We're 
studying the undead right now," he 
explained. "It is safer to observe in this 
way-and since you are said to be an 
authority ..." 

"Quite right," agreed the wizard. "I do 
know a bit about them. And I know just 
the place to look for a suitable encoun 
ter. Let's go to the study, shall we?" 

Elegar followed the wizard to a 
gloomy, cluttered chamber lit by a sin 
gle lamp. Damien pulled a crystal ball 
out from under a pile of astrological cal 
culations. Dusting it off, he bade Elegar 
sit down, and invited the youth to study 
the ball closely. "Don't be surprised if 
you share their thoughts" the wizard 
warned. "It's the ESP in the crystal -the 
only kind of crystal ball worth having, 
really!' Elegar nodded his understand 
ing, and Damien closed his eyes in con 
centration. After a minute, a misty 
scene took shape in the globe. 


Laocoon held his blackwood staff 
poised in one hand, a light spell shining 
about one end of it. Pebbles tumbled 
down the staircase he had just 
descended, throwing small echoes 
down the halls of the subterranean cor 
ridors. 

Beside him stood tall Robin, her head 
barely clearing the ancient stonework 
of the passageway. A throwing dagger 


gripped in each hand, Robin looked 
nervously behind them, then tried to 
see past the darkness ahead. 

"Where do you think they are?" she 
asked the cleric, her voice low and 
tense. 

Laocoon shrugged. Though they 
were just roommates, they knew each 
other well enough to share the same 
unspoken thought. Their three com 
panions had vanished one by one in this 
underground maze, and the shadow- 
hidden attackers that had struck down 
their friends were after them next - 
Robin, at least, was certain of it. "There 
it is again!" she hissed, jabbing a knife to 
point. "A stirring in the shadows-do 
you see?" 

Laocoon, frankly, did not. "Jumping 
at shadows won't help," admonished the 
cleric. "Let's be practical, now ..." 

The priest's voice died away as he 
realized something truly was hiding in 
the shadows beyond the archway. 
Thinking quickly, he pulled a short 
piece of iron from his pouch and spoke 
the words of a hold spell. At the same 
time, Robin's daggers sang through the 
air-and flew into the darkness with no 
effect at all. 

The cleric's spell was equally useless. 
The darkness moved again-and a sin 
gle shadow moved forward, clearly 
defined by the light from Laocoon's 
staff. It was close enough for the adven 
turers to feel the slight chill which radi 
ated from its form, and Laocoon's 
thoughts raced furiously. 

From his training, the cleric knew 
this must be one of the undead-either 
a shadow or a wraith, to judge by its 
shape. If it was a shadow, he had a good 
chance of turning it. In either case, no 
regular weapon was capable of injuring 
it. "Your sword!" the cleric blurted to 
Robin, as he began the complex motions 
required to turn undead. 

Though she favored throwing knives, 
Robin did not need encouragement to 
use the short sword at her hip. The 
magical weapon should be effective 
against the unearthly foe she faced. She 
pulled the blade from its sheath, and 
stood shoulder to shoulder with Laoco- 


31 










on as the undead thing drew closer. 

Laocoon gripped the holy crystal 
around his neck, symbol of his deity, 
and challenged the shadow form with 
it. But it swept on, unaffected by the 
cleric's efforts to turn it, and stretched 
one arm towards the priest. 

Robin's blade flashed out, and sliced 
through the arm of the insubstantial 
creature. Soundlessly it recoiled, obvi 
ously hurt by the shining weapon. 
"Hah!" exclaimed the fighter as she 
leapt after it. Laocoon's words of cau 
tion came too late. Robin's next blow 
missed, but the undead creature tagged 
the fighter squarely on the swordarm. 
A chilling numbness swept up Robin's 
arm, staggering her in midstride and 
causing the limb to dangle uselessly by 
her side. The short sword tumbled 
from the fighter's deadened fingers, 
and a wave of weakness washed over 
her. 

Laocoon fumbled urgently in his belt 
pouch. He saw Robin blanch when the 
shadowy form attacked, but he was not 
yet certain what kind of undead they 
faced. Whether shadow or wraith, it 
could drain the life force from its 
victim-but a shadow would deplete its 
victim's strength, which could be 
restored later, while the more powerful 
wraith drained entire levels of life 
energy at a touch. 

"But I suppose it doesn't matter," 
thought the cleric. "I can't turn it, and 
I'll know soon enough what it is if it 
touches me." Pulling his only vial of holy 
water from the pouch, Laocoon 
uncorked it with his teeth. As the shad 
owy figure moved to grasp Robin once 
more, the vial flew toward it, hurled 
with dispatch by the cleric. The vial 
itself tumbled harmlessly through its 
form, but the fluid which sprayed from 
its mouth spattered against the undead 
figure as if it were a solid thing. 

The thing shrank back, more injured 
by the holy water than it had been by 
Robin's sword stroke. The fighter had 
recovered her sword, and held it now 
in her offhand; Laocoon stepped to her 
side as they began a cautious retreat. 

The wave of cold at their back 


warned them. Laocoon glanced behind, 
then whirled with a strangled cry. 
Three more of the shadowy figures 
floated behind them- figures bearing a 
distinct resemblance to their recently 
vanished companions. Frozen with hor 
ror, the foremost one struck the cleric 
before he could respond. 

Its numbing touch and the weakness 
that followed told him, finally, what 
they faced. "Shadows!" he croaked to 
Robin in a pain-hoarsened voice. 

"Tell me something new," spat the 
fighter. "Run for it, Laocoon-we can't 
fight them all!" Robin shoved the cleric 
in the direction of the shadow they had 
already fought and injured. The com 
panions ran, slashing wildly at the 
shadow before them as the three at 
their backs gave chase. Robin led the 
way as Laocoon prayed intensely for 
aid. He knew, though the fighter did 
not, that his light spell would soon 
expire. And when it did, they would be 
blind as well as lost in these under 
ground passages, with only the dark 
ness and the shadows for company. 
And shadows could track the living by 
the life energy they radiated-energy 
the shadows were eager to drain from 
them. 

Laocoon ran faster, and continued to 
pray. 

22 

Elegar leaned thoughtfully back in his 
chair as the crystal vision faded. "I'll 
offer a prayer for their safety," he 
thought out loud. "But how is it, sir, that 
shadows are created in the first place?" 

Damien smiled sadly. "You know, of 
course, that some persons who die are 
not yet ready to leave life. Others are 
murdered or killed under traumatic 
conditions." The wizard tapped the 
crystal ball to make his point. "When 
that happens, the one who died may 
leave behind a shadow-that part of a 
spirit or soul that grasps greedily after 
life. It is usually tied to a place of emo 
tional significance-the scene of its 
death, for instance. 

"The shadow is a pitiful sort of 


undead being. It has but a vestige of the 
intelligence it had when alive. It is driv 
en only by a desire to recapture the life 
it has lost. A shadow drains life essence 
of its victim in a doomed effort to live 
again. Sad beings, shadows." The wiz 
ard shook his head. 

Elegar pondered for a moment. 
"Then why is it that the living can sur 
vive a shadow's touch at all? I thought, 
existing mostly on the Negative Energy 
Plane as they do, that a single touch 
would be enough to drain its victim of 
all life." 

"No, no, no," Damien shook his head 
emphatically. "You've several miscon 
ceptions in one, there. 

"Certainly shadows are undead, and 
they are capable of draining life 
energy-but only a little at a time. Once 
it was thought that this showed a clear 
connection to the Negative Energy 
Plane, which sucks the vital energy 
from material things. However, planar 
travelers have discovered that nothing 
can live on the Negative Energy Plane. 
Nor is it connected to the Prime Materi 
al, so no entity can be on both planes 
simultaneously." 

"Well, then," asked Elegar, baffled, 
"where do shadows exist, and where do 
they get their powers from?" 

"To the best of our knowledge," 
Damien replied, "shadows exist on two 
planes at once. The 'physical' part of 
them is usually found on the Prime 
Material Plane, taking form as the shad 
owy figure of a person. This shadow is 
most human-looking shortly after 
death, but soon loses detail of outline. 
The shadow can be clearly seen in 
bright light, and is impossible to pick 
out of darkness. Sometimes this 'physi 
cal' aspect is also encountered on the 
Negative Quasi-Planes, which shadows 
seem to like because of the closeness to 
the Negative Energy Plane. 

"At the same time, the shadow exists 
partially on the Demi-Plane of Shadows. 
That plane is made up of equal parts of 
pure negative and positive energy, and 
it is connected to the Prime Material 
Plane and Negative Quasi-Plane. The 
negative energy of that demi-plane 


32 










allows shadows to drain life force in the 
form of the strength of their victims. 
And the positive energy allows them to 
manifest on the Prime Material Plane 
and retain their forms even in sunlight." 

"Oh." Elegar sat silently while he 
absorbed the new information. "So 
when a person is slain by a shadow and 
becomes a shadow himself:' the novice 
ventured, "he can also be found on the 
Demi-Plane of Shadows?" 

Damien nodded. "A part of the 
shadow, yes, because the negative 
energy of that demi-plane is easily 
tapped by shadow undead. Although if 
a shadow is destroyed on either plane, 
the negative energy which gave it form 
dissipates and it vanishes completely 
from both planes." 

"Does that mean," asked Elegar, "that 
all shadows on the Demi-Plane of 
Shadows are undead?" 

"Not at all!" exclaimed the wizard. 
"Most inhabitants of that demi-plane 
are 'shadows' in the general sense - 
such as shades and shadow dragons. 
The undead 'shadows' of Prime Materi 
al persons gravitate to that place 
because the balance of energies there 
enables them to exist. It is said that 
undead shadows can be a problem to 
inhabitants of the Demi-Plane of 
Shadows as well as to us on the Prime 
Material Plane." 

Elegar raised his eyebrows. "Have 
you had a chance to travel to that plane, 
sir?" 

Damien smiled and gave a slight nod. 
"And I am happy to share what I know. 
Now-not to rush you off, Elegar, but I 
have something to attend to." 

"Certainly, sir. I understand." The nov 
ice thanked Damien for his help and 
took his leave. The wizard lingered by 
his table after Elegar was gone, and 
studied the crystal ball that lay there. 
He reviewed the running figures in the 
misty glass. Settling back into his chair, 
he faced the small door in the far wall 
and waited. 

Some minutes later, the door burst 
open. Laocoon and Robin charged into 
the wizard's study, panting from their 
long run and the dash up the short, 


flight of stairs. They paused in mid 
stride and looked wildly about, startled 
to find themselves in a wizard's study. 

It was a fatal indecision. In a moment 
the three pursuing shadows were upon 
them. Soon, five shadows, not three, 
wavered in the air of Damien's study. 

With muttered words, the wizard 
opened a planar vortex in the darkest 
corner of his study. Protected from the 
shadows by a ring of undead control, 
the wizard gestured to the Demi-Plane 
of Shadows, visible beyond the murky 
gate. "Business awaits me," he said to 
the undead. "If I need you. I'll see you 
five on the other side." He stepped 
through the gate, and it faded from 
sight behind him. 

The shadows faded into the dark cor 
ners of the study to await their master's 
return. 

CReaXuRe Notes 

1. Undead on the Negative Energy 
Plane are discussed in the MANUAL OF 
THE PLANES on page 54 under 
"Undead." 

2. Holy water is effective against 
shadows because it dissolves the nega 
tive energy bonds of their shadow 
form. Enchanted blades (+1 and 
greater) do the same, but silvered 
weapons have no special effect on 
shadows. 

3. When newly created, a shadow 
has the least hit points possible. The 
undead being gains points (up to the HD 
maximum) at the rate of 1 per Strength 
point absorbed from any victim slain. 

4. Shadows on the Prime Material 
Plane are bound to the place of their 
earth death and can travel no farther 
than quarter mile away from that place. 

5. A shadow is destroyed if eternal 
rest is cast upon the victim's physical 
remains. If the victim is brought back to 
life, the shadow is reabsorbed with the 
souls return to its body. If the shadow is 
destroyed before the victim is returned 
to life, the character suffers a -20% penal 
ty to his system shock survival roll. If he 
revives, he can never become a shadow 
again, even if slain by one in the future. 


33 









MUMMIES 


Monster: Lizard Man Greater Mummy 
Terrain: Tombs 

Party Levels: 360 (Average 5-6) 

Gold X.P.: 

Treasure X.P.: 

Monster X.P.: 

Kill: 8056 Defeat: 6042 
Retreat: 2014 

SeTup 

The ideal location for this module is the 
Anauroch Desert where it borders that 
part of Faerun known as The Savage 
Frontier (FR5). However, the DM may 
locate it any remote, desolate area, 
regardless of surrounding terrain. 

• Lizard men have been seen in the 
desert, a place they are not known to 
frequent. They seem to be searching 
for something, and like birds seeking a 
worm, they cock their heads and listen 
to the desiccated ground, ever seeking. 

• The walls of a deep sink well at a 
desert oasis crumbled recently, reveal 
ing the front of an ancient tomb, deco 
rated with weathered carvings of 
dinosaurs and lizard-like men. 

• The PCs encounter a dying elf, who 
claims to be a representative of the 
elven council at Evermeet. The adven 
turers must recover a pair of golden 
scrolls from an ancient tomb, before 
they fall into the wrong hands. 

The Horror FacTor 

Although mummies inspire paralytic 
fear in those whom they encounter, 
other occurrences can terrorize char 
acters as well and require that a Horror 
Check be made. Several such occur 
rences may take place in the mummy 
lair. For details on how to make a Hor 
ror Check when it is requested by the 
text, see the lair description for ghouls 
and ghasts. 

BaclcgRouN)d 

During Faerun's prehistory, a time 
called The Days of Thunder when dino 
saurs roamed the world, a number of 
non-human races, called the creator 
races by the elves, held sway. Magic 


was more potent in those primeval 
days, and the creator races cast magical 
spells of power undreamed of in mod 
ern times. Sages believe that these 
ancient races were the forebears of the 
lizard men, the winged aarakocra and 
the bullywugs, and that they were 
responsible for the magical creation of 
the known races and creatures of the 
modem ages. Yet in spite their great 
power, the creator races vanished long, 
long ago, leaving behind few legacies. 

The greater mummy Hsssthak of the 
ancient reptilian creator race guards 
one such legacy-a pair of spells left to 
their lizard man descendants, spells 
which could allow that race to regain 
much of its lost power and prestige. 

His tomb was discovered by ancestral 
elves who did not want the lizards to 
regain lost stature, but felt that the 
spells might have value in the future. 
Using the rituals found within the 
tomb, the elves mummified their own 
people to keep interlopers away from 
the ancient spells. 

Time passed, and debris covered the 
tomb, until a recent rock slide revealed 
its presence to a far older world. 

RuK)K))K)g The See kjarIo 

Soon after the PCs enter the tomb (wait 
until the PCs leave area No. 3), a band of 
10 lizard men (including a seventh-level 
lizard man shaman) enter the tomb as 
well. The lizard men seek the crypt of 
Hsssthak and the spells. They prefer to 
avoid the PCs, but will not permit the 
party to leave the tomb with the golden 
Nether Scrolls. 

If it looks like the PCs will deal with 
Hsssthak too easily, have the lizard men 
show up and complicate matters. 

The LizARch Mew 

The lizard men's legends have told of 
what to expect, and at least one scout 
has been here before. They are familiar 
with areas No. 1 through No. 6 on the 
lair map and believe that what they 
seek lies beyond the thunder shaft (area 
No. 9). 


Hresska, the lizard man shaman, is 
cunning and clever. Though he dislikes 
non-reptilian folk, he will barter gems 
(up to 10,000 gp kept nearby) for the 
scrolls. He speaks the Common tongue 
poorly (stereotypical "immigrant" 
grammar and phrase misusage-and 
with a hissing accent). 

Once the lizard men are aware of the 
PCs' presence within the tomb, they 
hold back and let the adventurers take 
the brunt of the damage that may be 
inflicted. After the party has encoun 
tered the mummy Hsssthak, they show 
up to claim the Nether Scrolls. 


Lizard men (9): AC 4; MV 6"/12"; 
HD 2 + 1; hp 10,12, 7,12,4,12,11,3,13; 
# AT 1; Dmg (javelin) ld6, (club) ld8; 
AL N; XP 65 each. 

Lizard man shaman, seventh 
level (1): AC 4; MV 6"/12'; HD 7 + 1; 
hp 36; # AT 1; Dmg (club) 2d4 + 2*; 
SA/SD uses spells as a seventh-level 
cleric * * ; AL NE; XP 120. 


* His club is a magical club + 2/+ 3 
vs. bullywugs. It is also grants the wield- 
er the ability to levitate. 

* * The shaman's spells are limited to 
those listed on page 40 of the 
DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE. 

The Lair 

Rakj^ocd EsioousiT&tzs 

Check for random encounters once 
every two turns. A roll of 1 on a d6 indi 
cates that an encounter takes place. If 
an encounter is indicated, roll ld6 again 
and use the corresponding encounter 
from the following table: 

1. A lizard man scout. This is one of 
three, separated from the main group 
and patrolling other areas of the tomb. 
If possible, he will remain hidden. If this 
encounter is selected, roll ld6 again. On 
a result of 1-3, the lizard man is hidden 
and attempts to avoid contact with the 
party. Given the chance, he returns to 
the main group to advise the shaman of 
the PCs' presence here. Keep track of 
the number of lizard men killed by 


34 





MUMMy LAIR 

Scale: i sq. = io feet 

E3 Door 
EE3 SecRet Ooor 

B False Door 

| [X] | 'CRap 

I'lilllllll starns 



U/l Slope 

I m | COlliMN 
I - 'o' , | BROkeN COlUMN 
| ?" | Stalactite coIumns 



these encounters and subtract them 
from the total number. 


Lizard man (1): AC 4; MV 6"/12"; 
HD 2 + 1; hp 10; # AT 1; Dmg (javelin) 
ld6, (club) 2d4; AL N; XP 65. 


2-3. Dinosaur skeleton. 


Dinosaur skeleton (deinony- 
thus) (ld3): AC 4*; MV 12"; HD 2; 
hp 13, 10, 8; # AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ 
2d8; SA gutting talons 2d6**; SD Vi 
damage from sharp or edged weap 
ons, immune to fire*, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, and cold-based 
spells; AL N; XP 48 each. 

*The deinonychus skeleton 
bones have petrified over the eons, 
giving them a higher armor class and 
an immunity to fire. 

** The special gutting attack may 
be done instead of all other attacks 
and is +2 to hit. 


4. If the PCs are searching this area 


or if a ranger is present in the party, 
they will notice odd and quite recent 
tracks in the dust: The lizard men have 
been here! Following the tracks (rang 
ers only), leads the PCs to area No. 6 on 
the map. 

5. A mummy. 


Mummy ( 1): AC 3; MV 6"; HD 6 + 3; 
hp 30; # AT 1; Dmg ldl2; SA fear, 
paralysis, disease; SD immune to 
non-magical weapons, Vi damage 
from magical weapons, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, and cold-based 
spells, immune to poison and paraly 
sis; AL N; XP 640. 


The mummy steps out of a niche in 
the wall and attacks. If the party is sur 
prised (normal chances), make a Horror 
Check for the character nearest the 
mummy. Once destroyed and exam 
ined, it is obvious that this creature was 
once an elf, though incredibly ancient. 
Only one such mummy will ever be 
encountered. 


6. Collapsing ruins. The floor where 
the party stands collapses from age, 
dropping the PCs down into an empty 
cave and doing ld6 points of damage to 
all who fail to make a Dexterity Ability 
Check. It is impossible to climb back up 
(though characters can fly). However, a 
low, narrow cave passage connects 
with the southern wall of the well of 
bones (area No. 7). 

Traps 

The areas marked with an "X" on the 
map are spike spring traps, hidden in 
the stone walls. When a character 
enters the trapped area, the trap has a 2 
in 6 chance of working-sharp stakes 
thrust out of the wall, doing 4d6 points 
of damage. 

EwcouwTeR Atieas 
1. The HiwTed Well 

Long ago, a cave collapsed here, open 
ing a wide hole to the surface. Dry 
winds whistle hollowly above this deep 


35 











limestone sinkhole, while far below, 
shadowed in darkness for all but a few 
hours each day, lies a pool of cool, sweet 
water. By using a steep stair carved into 
the rock, travelers could reach the pool. 

Rich vegetation blankets the floor of 
the sinkhole, except where it has been 
covered by a recent rock slide, which 
has destroyed part of the stone stair 
and revealed a piece of an ancient build 
ing, so old and weathered that there is 
nothing to tell who built it, or why. 

Were it not for the dark, open door in 
the structure, the mystery would have 
ended here, just another curious relic 
of Faerun's ancient past. Yet the door is 
open, frightening the superstitious who 
claim the well cursed, but beckoning 
bold, brave heroes onto adventure. 

The sinkhole is 80' deep. The walls 
are steep, but climbable, with a number 
of thick vines clinging tightly to the 
rock (non-slippery, rough, with 
ledges-climbing rate of 24'/round). 
Non-thieves climb at Vi thief ability, and 
add their Dexterity Reaction adjust 
ment to their climbing rate. 

The stair down is steep, carved into 
the crumbling walls of the sinkhole. 
The last 30' have been destroyed by a 
rock slide. Characters must climb to 
reach pool or the tomb entrance. 

The sinkhole, once a limestone cave, 
contains a pool of sweet, clear, cool 
water. The pool is fed by a deep under 
ground stream which has also 
breached the lower passages of the cat 
acombs (area No. 4). It is possible for a 
character using a water-breathing spell 
or some means of creating a moving air 
pocket to travel from the pool to the 
catacombs or vice versa. 

Thick vegetation covers much of the 
rocky sand floor, and thick creeper 
vines cling to the sinkhole walls, making 
climbing 25% easier for non-thieves. A 
character with a plant lore proficiency 
will be able to find enough of the rare 
medicinal herb mothersleaf to aid in the 
curing of six cases of mummy rot. 

The stone of the tomb is black, and 
though much harder than the sur 
rounding limestone, it is incredibly 
ancient, much more so than anything 


the PCs have ever seen before. Strange 
shapes in the stone hint at ancient carv 
ings, but the forms are eerie, inhuman. 

The entrance was not always open. 
Shattered remnants of a black stone 
slab lay around the 10' x 10' opening. 
If a large piece of the shattered slab is 
examined, writing becomes apparent. 
The runes are elvish, the language 
unreadable without magic. If read, the 
pieces say (in no particular order):" . . . 
ancient secrets not to be . . . guardians 
who shall keep . . . preserved in unlife . . . 
may Corellon Larethian forgive us of 
our sin." 

The opening has a stale, dry, bitter 
spicy smell, of something long decayed 
in spite of preservatives. Any animals 
accompanying the party, no matter 
how well trained, will cower and refuse 
to enter the tomb. 

H. The OnTen Passage 

The long corridor descending into the 
depths is twisted and broken, sloping 
down here, tilting up there, heavily 
cracked. Massive black wall stones lean 
at dangerous angles, yet still remain in 
place, supporting the oppressive black 
ceiling. Carvings in the black stone 
show fantastic monsters, great crea 
tures with long snaky necks, terrible 
long fangs and sharp rending claws. 

The 100' long black stone corridor 
(shown contracted on the map) has suf 
fered eons of settling, pressing, and 
twisting. The floor is not level, and the 
PCs must pick their way through it. It 
would be difficult, if not impossible, to 
run through this corridor. The twisted, 
tilting stone blocks provide ample hard 
cover with many places to hide, for say, 
a last-ditch lizard man ambush. The 
carvings depict dinosaurs. 

5. The Gnxtob HaLL 

The corridor opens onto a vast cham 
ber, lined with columns, so large that 
the PCs' light does not reveal the far 
walls. The chittering of bats on the ceil 
ing echoes eerily in here and the room 
stinks of their guano. Flowstone covers 


parts of the walls and stalactite/ 
stalagmite columns are everywhere. 
Like the corridor, the massive black 
floor stones here are steeply pitched up 
or tilted down, and in many places, are 
littered with massive rubble piles, the 
remnants of crumbled columns. This 
was once a temple to a forgotten lizard 
man deity. The statue of a huge, bat 
winged, crouching tyrannosaurus-like 
creature occupies the east wall, sitting 
atop a 10' tall pedestal, flanked by 
columns. The columns all have a scaly 
texture, like alligator skin. Carved pan 
els on the base of the pedestal hide a 
secret entrance to area No. 8. 

4-. The Catacombs 

The catacombs are high-ceilinged corri 
dors whose walls are lined with niches 
containing crumbled dust that was 
once the skeletons of ancient lizard 
man ancestors. Many of the niches 
show signs of having been disturbed, as 
if someone removed something from 
the dust (tomb robbers). 

If the party chooses to search in here, 
they have a 5% chance each turn of 
searching to find a piece of exotic jew 
elry, worth 2,500 gp. Limit the total 
number to be found to four, though 
other items of historical value may be 
found (DM's discretion needed here). 

Random encounters in this area have 
a 50% chance to be ld4 deinonychus 
skeletons. Otherwise, roll encounter 
normally as described above. 

Several special areas within the cata 
combs are marked by letters. 

A. and B. These areas are covered 
by 5' of water and are each guarded by 
two deinonychus skeletons, which 
remain hidden beneath the dark water. 


Deinonychus skeletons (2): AC 

4*; MV 12'; HD 2; hp 13,10 8; # AT 3; 
Dmg Id3/ld3/2d4; SA gutting talons 
2d6**; SD Vi damage from sharp or 
edged weapons, immune to fire*, 
immune to sleep, charm, hold and 
cold-based spells; AL N; XP 48 each. 


36 












* The deinonychus skeleton 
bones have petrified over the eons, 
giving them a higher armor class and 
an immunity to fire. 

* * The special gutting attack may 
be done instead of all other attacks 
and is + 2 to hit. 


C. and D. These each contain a 
sealed, upright sarcophagus. If the sar 
cophagi are opened, the contents are 
mummies that come to life, but crum 
ble to dust as they begin to move. 

E. This is a sprung trap. On the busi 
ness end hangs the impaled corpse of a 
desert nomad. The body is positioned 
so that someone turning the corner 
(regardless of which direction) will 
come face to face with the rotting 
corpse. Roll for surprise (normal 
chances). If the character is surprised, 
roll a Horror Check. 

F. This water-filled corridor gets 
slowly deeper until it intersects the 
underground stream which feeds the 
pool in the sinkhole. It is possible for a 
character using a water-breathing spell 
or some means of creating a moving air 
pocket to travel from the pool to the 
catacombs or vice versa. 

5. Well of Bowes 

The ledge here overlooks a vast pit of 
gray, lumpy sand and dust. Large green 
runes of exotic shape have been inlaid 
into the reddish stone floor around the 
pit. 

This is the burial site for commoners 
of the ancient lizard people. After a 
short but proper ceremony, the body 
was cast into the pit below to decay. 
The gray sand and dust is all that 
remains of the bones of thousands, per 
haps millions of dead lizard people who 
lived in Faerun's prehistory. 

The drop down to the dusty floor of 
the well of bones is 35'. The walls here 
are unusually slippery and nearly 
impossible to climb without ropes. 

If magic is used to read the runes, 
they say "From darkness you have 
come and now to darkness you shall 


return." 

Sounds echo eerily in this chamber, 
like whispering, half-heard voices. 

If the party descends to the dusty 
floor, eerie events occur. After about a 
turn, several parts of the bone pile start 
quivering, as if trying to come to life. At 
first, it is just humps of bony dust. This 
should happen several times near the 
party. Then, the floor begins to quiver 
as if an earthquake were taking place. 
The PCs have one round to flee before a 
gigantic tyrannosaurus rex skeleton 
erupts from the dust and attacks. This 
giant skeleton turns as a wraith. 


Tyrannosaurus skeleton (1): AC 

6; MV 15'; HD 12; hp 60; # AT 3; Dmg 
ld6/ld6/3dS; SD Vi damage from 
sharp or edged weapons, immune to 
fire *, immune to sleep, charm, hold, 
and cold-based spells; AL N; XP 2710. 

If PCs have been discovered by the 
lizard men, the lizard men wait here 
before following the PCs to Hsssthak's 
chamber. The lizard men are not trou 
bled by the tyrannosaurus skeleton. 

6. CrauuLujay 

This passage connects areas No. 5 and 
No. 9. It slopes slightly upward toward 
the thunder shaft. It is not possible for a 
character taller than 4' to stand upright 
here, but two characters can easily 
fight side-by-side (on their knees if nec 
essary). 

Z. Op&izeCCiKig Room 

Twelve long, waist-high stone tables fill 
the room. Each bench has little spill 
ways coming off the edges that pour 
into troughs which eventually feed into 
a stone bowl beneath each bench. In 
one corner of the room, lies a trio of 
crumbling skeletons, possibly elven. In 
this room, the ancient lizard people 
prepared bodies for mummification. 
Priests removed the internal organs 
from living victims on the tables. The 
bodies are the remnants of the ancient 
elves who created the mummy guard- 


37 














ians in area No. 10. 

A stair leads down from this chamber 
to a hall of alcoves. Each of the alcoves 
contains supplies for mummification. 
In spite of the intervening eons, they 
remain in good shape. One contains 
spices, another, cloth wrappings, and 
the third, empty canopic jars. The lids 
of the jars depict the heads of saurian 
creatures. 

Each of the traps in this alcove hall is 
set with three of the spike traps (see 
"Traps" above). 

G. This area contains 36 sealed cano 
pic jars. Twelve of these jars contain the 
internal organs of the elven mummies 
in area No. 10. The others contain the 
dried organs of non-monster mummies. 
The opening to the alcove is protected 
by three glyphs of warding that will 
each do 16 points of electrical damage 
to those entering the alcove. Finally, the 
entire alcove is a yellow mold colony. 

Yellow mold (1): AC 9; MV 0"; HD 
nil; # AT 1; Dmg ld8; SA poison 
spores; SD affected only by fire- 
based attacks; AL N. 

H. Like the opposite alcove, this area 
is guarded by three glyphs of warding 
which will do 16 points of electrical 
damage. A loose tile in the floor hides 
something rectangular, wrapped in 
spice-scented bandages (like a mum 
my). The wrapped package is a book, 
the Tome of Life Eternal. 

The Tome of Life ETeRwal 

The tome describes the process used to 
create normal mummies and the best 
means to destroy them. An Evil cleric 
who possessed this volume would be 
able to preserve a living human (or 
demi-human) and turn it into a mummy. 
Non-Evil clerics may safely read the 
book, but turning a living being into an 
undead one is an intensely Evil act and 
should have a definite impact upon the 
character's alignment. Furthermore, 
any sane character, Good or Evil, who 
reads the book must make a Horror 


Check. 

To destroy a mummy, destroy its 
canopic jars (which contain its internal 
organs). Each smashed jar does 2d6 
points of damage to the mummy. 

8. Pale Blue Death 

Cool, blue light lights the chamber, ema 
nating from a glowing orb in the center 
of the ceiling. Each corner contains a 
tall, reptilian statue with horrendous 
fangs and terrible claws. 

The light is magical, created eons ago 
by the makers of the tomb. It taps into 
the Negative Material Plane and its radi 
ation drains hit one point of life energy 
every round spent in this room. The 
draining causes the victim to have a 
"hot flash" each time a point is lost. 

9. ShAft of TbuwdeR 

The passageway opens up onto a wide 
shaft. Sounds echo hollowly and inten 
sify with each subsequent echo. 

The thunder shaft is deep, deep 
enough to possibly connect with a por 
tion of the Deepearth (the underground 
realm of the drow and mindflayers). Its 
weird effect is to intensify sound so that 
even a whisper soon becomes a thun 
dering roar and the last words of each 
conversation battle each other in inten 
sity. 

Spell-casters must make an Intelli 
gence Ability Check each time a spell is 
cast or they cannot cast spells in here, 
as concentration is continually broken 
by the painfully loud sounds. 

Fragments remain of a bridge that 
once connected the passage from area 
No. 8 with the passage to area No. 10, 
but there is not enough left to cross 
over. The PCs must find another way 
across the shaft by flying, climbing the 
walls, building bridges, or even telepor 
tation. 

10. Eluew Horror 

The ancient elves who sought to pre 
vent access to Hsssthak's tomb convert 
ed this outer tomb area into a trap, 
populated by mummy guardians of 


their making-their own people turned 
into horrendous undead guardians. 

The four mummies in this maze-like 
chamber will use hide-and-seek tactics, 
lurking behind corners then stepping 
out to paralyze intruders with fear, 
dealing a blow to the nearest paralyzed 
character then stepping back into hid 
ing. The mummies split up, coming at 
the party from many directions. Usu 
ally the second and third attackers wait 
until the party is engrossed in combat, 
then they attack from the side with sur 
prise. Remember that a cleric can only 
turn undead in one direction at a time. 

Though the mummies have been here 
for eons (though not quite so many eons 
as the greater mummy Hsssthak in area 
No. 11), they still remember their kin 
who turned them into guardians. Their 
hatred is such that it overrides their 
directive to guard Hsssthak's tomb. 
Elven intruders will be singled out for 
special vengeance. A mummy who 
faces an elf will attempt to grapple the 
elf, drag the elf to the precipice, and 
cast him or her into the thunder shaft 
(area No. 9). 

Elves who view an elven mummy 
must make a Horror Check in addition 
to their fear saving throw. 

Each of the doors out of this chamber 
are guarded with a glyph of warding 
that will do 16 points of electrical dam 
age to any who attempt to open them. 


Mummies (4): AC 3; MV 6"; HD 
6 + 3; hp 30; # AT 1; Dmg ldl2; SA 
fear, paralysis, disease; SD immune 
to non-magical weapons, Vi damage 
from magical weapons, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, and cold-based 
spells, immune to poison and paraly 
sis; AL N; XP 640 each. 


11. ETeRwal V)g)lawce 

As the door opens, the air in the hall 
rushes into the room, stirring up small 
cyclones of dust. When the dust clears, 
a dry, cadaverous creature, something 
that was never human, is seated on an 
ebony throne, studying you with glow- 


















ing eyes. 

The cadaverous creature is Hsssthak, 
a greater mummy (see his description 
in "The Night Gallery"). His purpose is 
to guard two ancient spells (see the 
"Nether Scrolls" below) for future gen 
erations of his racial descendants, the 
lizard men. 

His first goal is to either charm the 
PCs into taking the scrolls and giving 
them to the lizard men or to place one 
of the PCs under a geas spell to do the 
same. The geas spell is read from a 
scroll. 

If a battle ensues, the lizard men, who 
by now have been skulking close 
behind the PCs, will join in on Hsss 
thak's side. 

Once the door is opened, and air 
enters the sealed chamber, Hsssthak 
begins to decay, despite his magical 
preservation. Each round, he loses one 
hit point (seen as pieces crumbling off), 
until he crumbles into dust. 

A magical mirror on the south wall 
functions exactly like a crystal ball with 
clair audience. 

12. AwclewT S&an&Ts 

This secret door hides Hsssthak's trea 
sure. Use dice to select items from the 
D, Q and X treasure types. Any magical 
items will function like the item select 
ed, but will have an exotic, even alien 
appearance. In addition to what the 
tables allow, Hsssthak guards two piec 
es of the Nether Scrolls. 

The NeThen. Scriolls 

These magical scrolls were created dur 
ing the Days of Thunder (Faerun's 
ancient prehistory, when dinosaurs and 
non-human races ruled) by mages of 
the creator races. Later they became 
the magical foundations of ancient 
Netheril (an ancient human civili z ation 
in the North, located on the western 
edge of Anaurouch the Great Desert). 
The Nether Scrolls disappeared long 
before Netheril fell into ruin. 

The two golden scrolls that Hsssthak 
guards contain the following two spells: 


Awaken Intelligence: Level: 4; 
Range: touch; Duration: permanent; 
Area of effect: 1 creature; Components: 
V,S,M; Casting time: 4 segments; Saving 
throw: none. 

Gives sentience to a non-sentient 
creature (roll 3d6 to select Intelligence 
score), or in already sentient creatures, 
improves Intelligence by 2d6 points. 
Requires a system shock roll to survive 
its effects. Awakened Intelligence may 
not be passed on to offspring unless 
"locked" into the creature's genetic 
makeup by the alter beast spell. The 
material components are a dried fish 
and a piece of brain coral. 

Alter Beast: Level: 8; Range: touch; 
Duration: permanent; Area of effect: 1 
creature; Components: V,S,M; Casting 
time: 1 turn; Saving throw: none. 

Allows the caster to modify a selected 
part of a living creature's physical form. 
This could be changing paws into 
hands, giving a quadruped an upright, 
bipedal stance, increasing brain capaci 
ty, and so on. Changes made by this 
spell affect the creature's genetic 
makeup and are permanent. The 
effects can be passed on to offspring if 
the creature mates with a similarly 
altered creature of its own original spe 
cies. Only a limited or full wish will 
reverse the spell's effects. Each use of 
this spell requires a system shock sur 
vival roll. The material component is 
two strands of heavy gold wire twisted 
together in a double helix. 

Eaotogy of the 
Mummy 

". . . and so we find that here in the 
North, the crypt guardian, or mummy 
is known through what sages call the 
'Netherese oral tradition,' a collection of 
common legends found among folk 
descended from refugees of ancient 
Netheril. Whether or not these grue 
some creatures actually exist anywhere 
in Faerun other than the mysterious 
Raurin desert is not known." 

"Excellent. Send it over to Florins for 
recopying. A good ending, don't you 


think, eh Erek?" 

"Good if you like boring dribble about 
dusty dead. Why don't you spice it up a 
bit, add some color, some adventure. 
Too bad about old Felloman and your 
friend Vortigur. Was it true the council 
of clerics was about to send you as a 
missionary to the ice wastes after that?" 

"If brother Felloman had not inter 
ceded, I'm sure they would have. Imag 
ine, someone who actually liked being a 
ghoul... or was it a ghast? But that's not 
important. The Journal of the Watchful 
Order of Magists and Protectors is a 
scholarly publication, not a collection of 
wild stories. 

"Still, there was that time when I 
joined a band of adventurers when they 
journeyed into lost Ascore, on the 
periphery of the Great Desert. I like to 
call that adventure, 'The Curse of the 
Mummy's Eye' . . . 

"As I said, mummies are not common 
to most cultures of Faerun-only in 
those civilizations that religiously pre 
serve the bodies of their dead or that 
are pervaded by Lawful Evil, does one 
find mummies. Dwarven Ascore, 
though not a part of ancient Netheril, 
contained much lost lore and guardians 
to protect it. 

"I had been studying magic for a few 
years, and had adventured some, but 
with other companions. I was hired to 
accompany a band of warriors and 
thieves who had found a map revealing 
the location of a minor piece of ancient 
magic called the golden eye. They had 
also paid a seer to gaze into her crystal 
ball and reveal what obstacles stood 
between them and their goal. 

"We found ourselves inside the outer 
shrine of an ancient tomb. The glyphs 
on the walls were ancient, but readable: 
'The golden eye of Rethekan, avenger 
of Bhaal, curses tomb-robbers forever.' 
Of course, that was the usual warning 
one finds in tombs, doomed and cursed 
forever and all that, yet what was more 
interesting were the tomb paintings. 
They depicted, in gruesome detail I 
might add, the creation of a tomb 
guardian, what we call a mummy. 

"The preparers, usually priests. 


39 














began the mummification process with 
a live victim, usually a warrior-one of 
their own people. Their spells kept the 
poor soul in his body after it died, while 
they removed and preserved his vital 
organs, then dried out and preserved 
his body. Remember, the victim is alive 
through this whole procedure and is 
aware of what is happening to him. Still 
gives me the shudders to think about it. 
It's no wonder the resulting creature 
hates life so much. 

"Anyway, we entered this dusty tomb 
and as we went deeper, there were 
more paintings, and mind you, if the 
other ones only made your stomach 
queasy, these were nightmare makers. 
Who could imagine someone choosing 
to become a mummy? Yet, these pic 
tures showed just that. A man who will 
ingly submitted to mummification and 
retained much of his power from life. I 
began to get a bad feeling about the 
whole thing. 

"My brave but incredibly thick 
headed comrades laughed when I sug 
gested that the guardian here might be 
more than just a mummy. 'The seer 
would have known if it were other than 
a tomb guardian.' they smirked. 'The 
golden eye is not that important. Maybe 
you should go back to being a priest,' 
they said condescendingly. 

"Red-faced, I entered the outer sanc 
tum with them. Of course, we met 
mummies, two of them, garbed in 


ancient armor and tattered linen wind 
ings. I had not seen a mummy before, 
but I knew I faced them now. Even my 
encounter with ghouls had not pre 
pared me for this. The smell, the creak 
ing joints, the unnatural glaring eyes . . . 
they horrified me. I was paralyzed with 
fear-they do that you know. My com 
panions hurled fragile glass bottles 
filled with volatile oil at the things, then 
ignited them with torches until they 
burned like bonfires, stumbling about 
engulfed in flames. 

"When I could force myself into 
motion again, the battle was over. The 
guardians were little more than smok 
ing ruins in the shape of men. One of 
my companions had sustained a minor 
wound, and it had begun to stink 
already with the dreaded rot disease, 
often called Talona's Curse after the 
goddess of disease. 

"The cleric of Lathander, who like me 
had been hired to accompany the party, 
applied dried mothersleaf powder to 
the wound and prayed to his god, but it 
still would not heal. I later learned that 
the herb must be brewed as a tea to be 
effective, but by then, the unfortunate 
warrior had already lost the arm to the 
rot. 

"Undaunted, my companions burst 
into the inner sanctum, confident they 
would soon have the golden eye. Mean 
while, I was engrossed in examining the 
room, and, urn, neglected to follow 



them. Poking around, I found a secret 
niche, filled with odd bottles, jars and a 
small wooden box. Then it struck me, 
the jars looked exactly like those in the 
mummification pictures. 

"I grabbed everything and ran after 
my companions, only to find them all 
asleep. Standing over them was yet 
another mummy. Like the ones behind 
me, it smouldered, yet it seemed to 
have resisted the fire attack. Now it pre 
pared to slay my companions. They 
were fools, but they were paying me to 
keep them alive. 

"Then, as if it heard me enter, it 
looked up and I saw, the mummy was 
blind! It had no eyes. And it talked! 

" 'Yet another disturbs my vigilance: it 
whispered, 'Prepare to die at the hands 
of Rethekan.' 

" 'I don't think so/ I countered. 'I'd like 
to trade these jars, your canopic jars, 
the ones that contain your preserved 
guts, for my friends there. Otherwise, I 
drop them or fall on them if you try to 
put me to sleep. Either way, they break 
and you're dust.' 

"Its hands clawed air. It couldn't see 
me, couldn't see the jars, couldn't tell if I 
was bluffing. Yet it knew. 

" 'I propose a different trade, mage,' it 
hissed. 'I wait for the return of my 
beloved, the priestess Asharla-Rhil, I 
would gaze on her again. I need an eye, 
a living eye freely given, as I freely gave 
my life for Asharla-Rhil.' " 


40 
















"So that's how you lost that eye, I 
thought you just accidentally poked it 
out with a stick or something" Erek 
interrupted. 

"I'm not done with the story. As I said, 
it wanted an eye. 'Only if my friends go 
free first.' I demanded. 

" 'Agreed,' it whispered and then 
began to dance around in what I can 
only guess must be glee. I gave the tiring 
its gruesome gut jars, then dragged my 
friends outside to safety. Steeling my 
nerve, I returned to the inner sanctum. 
As it waited, I jammed my fingers into 
my right eye socket and yanked hard 
on its contents, then thrust it into the 
mummy's outstretched claw. I didn't 
wait to see Rethekan pop the grisly 
thing into its own empty orbit or listen 
to the chanting that follwed. I just ran. 
My companions wisely, for once, decid 
ed to pursue other adventures." 

"What a sacrifice, removing your 
own eye in trade for someone else's 
life." 

"I didn't say I gave him my eye, did I? 
Just the contents of the eye socket, 
which at that time was a simple glass 
eye. I'd lost the real one long before 
that. On the other hand, it was an eye 
for an eye. I somehow failed to mention 
that I had found the golden eye along 
with the canopic jars. I doubt if Rethe 
kan had any real use for the golden eye 
anymore. Erek, that sounds like the 
door, get it will you." 

"Amelior, there's a big box out here, 
big enough for a coffin or something 
like that. Real dusty too. Say, who do 
you know in Ascore?" 

CReaTuRe Notes 

Known mummy-producing cultures 
include the ruined cities found in 
Raurin in the Desert of Desolation (13-51 
and lost Netheril in the Savage Frontier 
(FR5). It is also said that the tombs of the 
Zhentarim are rife with such guard 
ians. 

Mummies do not exist of their own 
accord. Unlike life-draining undead, 
they do not give birth to their own kind 
out of the bodies of their victims. Mum 


mies are created by men to act as tomb 
guardians. The process is similar to that 
required to create a skeleton or a zom 
bie, but requires long preparation of 
the body, expensive and rare preserva 
tive spices and compounds, and a spell 
to bring them to "life." For the mummy- 
creation ritual to be successful, the 
mummy must be a living being (usually 
human) when the mummification proc 
ess begins. The unspeakable horror 
and agony of the process (the body dies, 
but the soul and mind remain aware 
and trapped within) are responsible for 
the mummy's "unholy hatred of life." 

Mummies are not skeletal beings, nor 
are they always wrapped in cloth 
(though this is a common practice, since 
the cloth retains the preservatives that 
keep the mummy from decay). The 
preservation process may leave the 
mummy with the appearance it had in 
life, though its flesh is dried and with 
ered. 

The mummification rituals draw 
upon power from the Negative Material 
Plane, replacing life energy with death 
energy. While the desiccation (drying) 
of body tissues makes them hard and 
increases the strength, negative energy 
makes it invulnerable to non-magical 
weaponry. 

Even those weapons do only Vi dam 
age. Yet the spices and resins that pre 
serve the mummy's flesh from decay 
are flammable and make the mummy 
highly susceptible to damage by fire. 
Even the fire of a simple torch can 
destroy a mummy, eventually. 

The potent energy within the mum 
my, combined with its preservatives, 
affects those it injures in a deadly way. 
The negative energy reverses the effect 
of the preservatives on the victim. 
While the mummy is preserved from 
decay, the victim begins to rot away, 
permanently losing two points of Cha 
risma, and will die of the disease within 
ld6 months. All the while, he smells like 
a rotting corpse, as flesh, features, and 
limbs slowly decay and slough off. 

In Faerun, the clerical spell cure dis 
ease cannot fully cure the advance of 
the mummy's rotting disease. At best, it 


halts its progress for a number of 
weeks equal to the caster's level, but in 
the end, the spell must be renewed. The 
disease builds up a tolerance for the 
spell and each casting lasts ld3 weeks 
less than the previous use. To cure the 
disease, the PCs must have mothersleaf 
(fresh or properly preserved), a leafy 
medicinal herb found in most northern 
temperate and subarctic regions. When 
the herb is imbibed as a tea before the 
casting of cure disease, all traces of the 
rot from the body disappear. The herb 
is rare, and can be found only by char 
acters with a Plant Lore proficiency 
(see WILDERNESS SURVIVAL GUIDE). 

There are two types of mummies. 
The common mummy (as described in 
the MONSTER MANUAL), which has 
been brought into being by the acts of 
others, and the greater mummy, the 
undead remains of a man (or woman) 
who has chosen to be mummified. The 
common mummy is a fighting creature. 
It retains its intelligence, but the magics 
of its creation binds it to its purpose. A 
greater mummy, like a lich, may use 
spells (though it is limited to the talents 
of a seventh-level spell-caster), or any 
special powers, abilities, skills, or profi 
ciencies that it had in life. 

As part of the mummification proc 
ess, the internal organs of the living vic 
tim are removed and preserved 
separately in three canopic jars, 
immersed in an elixir made from the 
bodies of larvae. These organ jars must 
remain within the tomb guarded by the 
mummy. Destroying a canopic jar and 
its contents does 2d6 points of damage 
to a mummy. As one might imagine, 
these organs are often well hidden and 
protected in some way (such as magical 
or mechanical traps). 

The appearance, smell, and magical 
aura of the mummy elicits a paralyzing 
revulsion and fear. Those who see a 
mummy and fail to make a saving 
throw vs. spells are subject to paralysis. 


41 















VAMPIRES 


Terrain: city (with a developed sewer 
system) 

Party levels: 42 (Average 7th) 

Magic X.P.: 
measure X.P.: 

Monster X.P.: 

Kill: 17,258 Defeat: 12,943 
Retreat: 4,314 

SeTup 

• During the past several weeks a 
few members of the local merchants' 
guild (and a few other citizens) have 
vanished. However, two nights ago one 
of those missing merchants 
reappeared-complete with fangs and a 
thirst for blood. The merchants' guild is 
offering a reward to any daring group 
of adventurers able to put an end to the 
town's terror. And the guild knows of a 
barkeep who might have a lead on the 
mystery. 

• People are getting nervous, afraid 
to go out on the streets at night. It is 
rumored some horrible creature is kill 
ing those who wander alone. And the 
creature must be stockpiling a good 
amount of wealth, as it also robs its vic 
tims. 

• The player characters learn of a 
tavern owner in town who often pro 
vides adventurers with rumors about 
old ruins and treasure-filled dungeons. 

DM's Ba.ckgrc.0 ukj£> 

About 400 years ago Jonathon and Jere 
miah Morningmist were twin high 
elven brothers in an adventuring party 
that stumbled upon ancient ruins lead 
ing to a cavern complex deep within the 
bowels of the land. The complex was 
filled with treasure. However, 
Jonathon, a headstrong fighter, and Jer 
emiah, a quick-tempered mage, soon 
learned their new-found wealth had a 
price. 

The dank complex was home to a 
vampire, which made short work of 
Jeremiah and several members of the 
adventuring band. And as fate would 
have it, a succubus, who surprised the 
remainder of the party as it fled 


through the long twisting corridors, 
killed Jonathon. 

Thus the twins, who shared so many 
similar experiences in life, shared a sim 
ilar fate in death. Jeremiah became a 
lesser vampire, who for many decades 
served the vampire who had created 
him. This head vampire eventually was 
killed by another band of adventurers, 
so Jeremiah became free-willed and set 
out on his own to devastate the area. 

Jonathon, so drained by the succu 
bus, had become a greater vampire, 
possessing power like his brother, Jere 
miah, but able to walk the Earth during 
daylight hours. 

Eventually the pair was reunited, and 
they began a reign a terror in the lands 
hundreds of miles north of Ravens 
Bluff. Stuffing their bag's of holding 
with soil from their graves, they were 
able to wander the Forgotten Realms in 
search of wealth and more power. On 
one of their expeditions into an old cas 
tle, the pair discovered a treasure of 
magical armor and weapons (the adven 
turers carrying the treasure didn't put 
up too much of a fight). Jonathon 
claimed the magical shield and the hel 
met, and Jeremiah claimed the magical 
staff and powders. The helmet was a 
helm of opposite alignment, which for 
ever altered Jonathon's undead life, as 
it changed his alignment to Lawful 
Good. This development pitted the 
brothers against each other, and since 
neither could win, they went their sep 
arate ways. 

Jonathon eventually settled in Ravens 
Bluff (DMs may use a different town in 
their own campaigns), and he used part 
of his accumulated treasure to set up 
the Blue Dolphin, a tavern that has 
become quite popular among adventur 
ers and sailors. The inn features fine 
food, the best of spirits, and tall tales of 
glorious adventures that are spun long 
into the early morning hours. 

"Life" was good for Jonathon until 
several weeks ago when a rash of mur 
ders was reported in town. The victims 
were drained of blood, and some of the 
local adventurers learned a few of 
those victims were coming back as vam 


pires. Jonathon knew in his heart Jere 
miah was responsible and must be dealt 
with. So Jonathon has been screening 
the adventurers who frequent the inn 
to try to find a party tough enough to 
deal with the threat. He will not give 
away the fact he, himself, is a vampire. 
And a magic mirror in his establish 
ment helps his ruse; it is magicked so 
that Jonathon casts a reflection in it. No 
matter which of the three setups the 
DM uses for this adventure, the PCs 
should somehow be directed to the Blue 
Dolphin where they can meet 
Jonathon. Alter the PCs' introduction to 
fit the chosen setup. 

PLaY^r's Ibftizo&ucfCioKi 


It is late summer, and your unsuc 
cessful search for adventure 
brought you to the Blue Dolphin tav 
ern near the wharfs in Ravens Bluff, 
you had hoped you might pick up 
rumors of ruins or dungeons or 
something that would lead to a 
treasure-filled outing. But it seems 
the only talk at the tavern is of the 
recent murders in town. You were 
about ready to give up and go home 
when Jonathon, the bartender, 
approached. 

Jonathon Morningmist, a striking 
ly handsome silver-haired high elf, 
seemed a little out of place to you in 
this dark, rustic inn. Jonathon, who 
has operated this establishment for 
many years, wears fine, pressed 
clothes, which are in stark contrast 
to the garb of his adventurer clien 
tele. But despite his appearance of 
aloofness, he seems quite friendly. 
You have witnessed him sitting with 
the customers, listening to their tall 
tales and telling a few of his own. 
Now he seems to want to talk to you. 
He sits at your table, the long, dark 
shadows from the room's interior 
falling across his face. His violet elfin 
eyes focus on you, and he begins to 
speak in a soft, somber tone. 

"The adventure you seek is within 


42 




the city," Jonathon whispers. "A vile, 
undead creature, which has accu 
mulated much treasure, is responsi 
ble for the recent killings in town. If 
you're really seeking adventure, 
stake out the streets and kill the crea 
ture. And if you haven't the courage, 
leave town now before you become 
the creature's next victims." 


Jonathon will stare into the eyes of 
the player character fighters, using his 
vampiric ability of charming to get 
them to take up this quest beginning 
tomorrow evening (this gives them 
tomorrow during the day to investi 
gate). 

If asked about the menace, Jonathon 
will provide the following information: 
the majority of the creature's attacks 
have taken place within a nearby three- 
square-block section of the city, which 
is a warren of tenements, offices, and 
warehouses; the creature only attacks 
at night; the player characters might 
want to purchase some garlic before 
they attempt to take on the creature. 

Statistics and other information 
about Jonathon Morningmist and his 
evil brother, Jeremiah, appear in "The 
Night Gallery" section. If for some rea 
son the player characters attempt to 
attack Jonathon, other patrons will 
intercede in his behalf. Jonathon will go 
into a back room, turn gaseous, and 
escape. 

If the characters try to get informa 
tion from other patrons in the Blue Dol 
phin, they will be told the following: 


"The creature comes with the dark 
ness. The townspeople have dubbed 
it the bane, because it truly is a bane 
to this once-peaceful community. It 
stalks the streets. Almost nightly the 
terrified screams of its victims echo 
hauntingly throughout the city. 
Those investigating the deaths and 
disappearances have found only a 
few bloodstains to mark the citizens' 
passing. Jonathon, here, has offered 
a reward of a +3 shield to anyone 


who can stop this bane. And the mer 
chants' guild is putting up a reward 
of 4,000 gp. None has stepped for 
ward to earn it, at least none of those 
who have stepped forward to earn it 
have returned. And a terrible aura 
of fear has settled over the area. 
Some people are talking of moving 
out of this city." 

If the PCs contact the merchants' 
guild, they will be given the names and 
detailed descriptions of a half-dozen 
merchants who have vanished in the 
past several weeks. The merchants' 
guild believes the bane has taken them 
and probably killed them, as a few oth 
er merchants have turned up as blood 
less corpses lying in shadowy alleys. 
The PCs will be introduced to a high- 
ranking member of the guild who will 
point them to where the latest victim 
was found. If the PCs search the area 
they will find a few scuff marks leading 
to the west alley between two build 
ings. The marks will disappear a few 
feet down the alley. However, if the PCs 
continue to search beyond the scuff 
marks, they will find a sewer grating 
(through which the creature escaped). 

The merchants' guild representative 
will explain the guild's concern over the 
attacks. The attacks started about one 
month ago and always happen in the 
evening. No one has lived through an 
attack. However, three evenings ago 
two city guards heard a cry from the 
empty marketplace and spied a shad 
owy humanoid dragging a body into the 
alley to the northeast. They gave chase, 
but the shadow abandoned the man 
gled body and disappeared into an alley, 
not to be found. The city guards have 
begun patrolling the streets in force at 
night, but the bane is obviously smart 
and makes its attacks after the guards 
pass by. The city has organized a small 
force of fighters to deal with the crea 
ture, but so far this effort has proved 
fruitless. So the guild has offered this 
reward in an attempt to recruit a band 
of adventurers. The guild is so con 
cerned over the situation because a few 


of its members have closed up shop and 
moved elsewhere. 

CaTcb)K)g the 
CReafuRe 

The player characters, whether 
charmed or acting of their own volition, 
will have to stake out the streets during 
the evening hours by lying in wait or 
posing as possible targets. There is a 
50% chance each night that Jeremiah 
will hunt out victims. The following 
table should be checked to determine in 
which section of the city the vampire 
will strike: 

1. Area A: Mostly warehouses and 
office buildings. 

2. Area B: Tenements varying from 
one to three stories tall. 

3. Area C: Tenements and shops. 

4. Area D: Primarily pricier shops. 

5. Area E: Ship chandleries and the 
Blue Dolphin. 

6. Area F: Shops and assorted busi 
nesses. 

7. Area G: Marketplace with stalls 
and a money-changer's booth. 

8. Area H: Slums. 

9. Area I: Warehouses. 

10. Area J: Warehouses and docks. 

For the purpose of this scenario, Jere 
miah will not attack a PC on the street 
during the first night of a stakeout. Jer 
emiah has been careful in choosing his 
victims, preferring those who have 
been frequenting the Blue Dolphin. 
This is his way of getting back at his 
brother. 

If the characters are within the area 
in which an attack occurred, they will 
hear a cry. It will take 2d4 rounds to 
reach the scene of the crime. For each 
round Jeremiah has before help 
arrives, he will have a 10% cumulative 
chance of retreating safely with his vic 
tim through a handy sewer grate. In 
this case, the party will find only scuff 
marks that lead the grate. If the party 
arrives before Jeremiah has fled, read 
the following: 


43 






















Hurrying to the sound of the cry, you 
emerge from an alleyway to catch 
sight of a gaunt form with silver hair 
that reflects the light of the moon. 
The form is dragging a body over to 
an open grate, which presumably 
leads into the city's sewer system. 
Even as you move to engage the crea 
ture it sees you and abandons its vic 
tim. With a snarl trailing from its 
blood-stained lips, it drops into the 
sewer and disappears into the inky 
blackness below. 


The victim, which has numerous 
claw and bite marks about its neck, is 
dead. If the PCs search the body they 
will recognize the victim as being one of 
the patrons who sat near them in the 
Blue Dolphin. If they make the connec 
tion with the silver hair, and seek out 
Jonathon, they will discover he has an 
ironclad alibi. More than a dozen 
patrons will vow he never left the inn 
all evening. 

If the players investigate the grate, go 
to the sewer section. If they continue to 
perform stakeouts, and are in an area 
Jeremiah strikes next, one of the PCs 
will be the next intended victim. 

If the latter is the case, refer to Jere 
miah's statistics and spells in "The Night 
Gallery." 

If the PCs interview citizens and vari 
ous merchants, they will hear wild 
reports of huge monsters emerging 
from the shadows, flying creatures that 
swoop out of the skies to grab innocent 
people, and giant skeletons. They also 
will run into Gembor, a bum whom Jer 
emiah has charmed. Gembor, who is 
usually located in Area 6 in the sewers, 
will say all manner of things to throw 
the PCs off the track, such as directing 
them to other sections of town where 
Jeremiah has no intention of going. He 
will warn the PCs that they mustn't 
attempt to take on the creature, as the 
creature is probably very strong and 
probably doesn't like people who try to 
attack it. If the PCs are suspicious and 
try to follow Gembor, they will see him 
drop down into the sewer. 


The Secuerc. SysTem 

Beneath the city streets of Ravens Bluff 
runs an excellent stone-tiled sewer sys 
tem, its branches and arteries inter 
twining throughout the city. This 
underground maze of passages has 
become home to Jeremiah. It permits 
him much freedom of movement. It 
also had been the home of a few thieves 
who used the system to travel between 
target businesses. The now-charmed 
thieves and ruffians work for Jeremiah. 

The PCs may gain entrance to the 
sewers through one of the many sewer 
gratings dotting the streets. Under each 
grating is an iron ladder that extends 
down 20' into a main artery of the 
sewer system. The arteries are uniform 
in size, 20' wide and 10' high. While the 
sewers are unpleasant, they are rela 
tively clean, with constant drainage to 
the sea outlets. Despite this, there are 
an abundance of slime growths 
throughout the main arteries and 
branches, and the DM must make a 
point to describe the slime growths to 
the PCs. 

The PCs will have to conduct a thor 
ough search of the system to locate Jer 
emiah's lair. 

1. This area is filled with water 
about 2' deep. Various piles of refuse 
rise above the water in this artery, 
which leads west below a row of manor 
homes in the better section of town. 
The inhabitants of this area are two 
giant crocodiles. 


Giant Crocodiles (2): AC 4; MV 6"/ 

12"; HD 7; hp 35, 37; # AT 2; Dmg 
3d6/2dl00; AL N; Size L (25' long); XP 
513 each. 


2. This small artery, mostly dry, is 
used as a dump by those living in the 
tenements above. It is filled with debris. 
And crawling about on top of the debris 
are 35 giant rats. These are sometimes 
controlled by Jeremiah. 


Giant Rats (35): AC 7; MV 12"/6"; 
hp 3 each; # AT 1; Dmg ld3; AL NE; 
Size S; XP 8 each. 

Each PC bitten by a rat has a 5% 
chance per wound of contracting a 
serious disease. 


There is nothing of value in this area. 

3. Water about 3' deep fills this sec 
tion. If the adventurers travel this way, 
they will stumble upon an electric eel 
which has swum in from the ocean and 
has not found a way out. Jeremiah 
knows of this inhabitant, but has done 
nothing to chase it away. It is one more 
guard for his lair. 

If the PCs closely watch the water 
before entering the lair, let them detect 
movement in the water on a roll of 1 or 
2 on ld6. 

If the group does not take any precau 
tions and enters the area, the eel will 
feel their approach when they come 
within 60'. The eel will quietly swim to 
within 10' of the party and generate an 
electric current in the water doing 4d6 
damage (please note PCs within 5' take 
6d6, and those between 10' and 15' take 
2d6). It will then swim farther away, 
hiding in a smaller sewer pipe, waiting 
to see if any of the PCs fall. The eel will 
avoid combat if at all possible, prefer 
ring to shock its victims to death. If the 
PCs leave this area, it will begin to 
"stalk" them, following them at a dis 
creet distance if it can. The eel can gen 
erate its shock once a turn, so for every 
turn the eel is able to follow the party, it 
will move up to within 5' to 10', shock 
the PCs and try to dart back. 


Electric eel (marine): AC 6; MV 

9"; HD 7; hp 37; # AT 1; Dmg 3d4; SA 
electrical discharge (electrified vic 
tims must save vs. paralyzation or be 
stunned); AL N; Size L (25' long); XP 
646. 


The eel can generate its electrical 
attack once a turn. It has no treasure. 

4. This section of the sewer system 
has caved in. Rubble closes off an entire 
branch. Slime also is abundant here. 


44 























However, this slime is not harmless. It is 
green slime, and it will drop upon PCs 
entering the area. Jeremiah caused the 
cave-in to seal off some of the arteries 
leading to his lair. He is unconcerned 
about the slime. The PCs will find noth 
ing by digging here, and the cave-in is 
so extensive they would have to dig for 
two days to open up the passage. 

Green slime: AC 9; MV 0; HD 2; hp 
11 each; # AT not applicable; Dmg 
special; XP 50. 


The slime attaches itself to flesh, turn 
ing the victim into green slime ld4 melee 
rounds later. It can be scraped off easily. 

5. If the player characters journey 
here during the day, they will find dirty 
plates, rolls of bedding, and a half- 
dozen lanterns. Several footprints can 
be seen. The footprints lead to the near 
est ladder and sewer grating. If a rang 
er is in the party, that character will 
also notice prints leading to a worn sec 
tion of wall (see section after Ruffians), 
packing the prints above ground will 
do no good, as outside the prints get lost 
among the tracks of the city's many res 
idents. 

However, if the PCs arrive at this area 
during the night, they will catch sight of 
several men huddled together around 
the light of a few lanterns. Muffled voices 
reveal that the men are engaged in a dis 
cussion. The characters can approach 
within 60' without being noticed. 

The men are a group of ruffians from 
one of the thieves guilds. Jeremiah has 
charmed them to occupy the sewer sys 
tem during the evening hours. During 
the daylight hours they serve as spies 
for him, gathering the local gossip 
about the murders and trying to find 
fences for some of the merchandise Jer 
emiah has taken off his victims. 

If the PCs make any noise or come 
within 60', the ruffians will hear them 
and attack. If the PCs capture and/or 
question any of them, the ruffians will 
explain they are common thieves in hid 
ing. If pressed or threatened, they will 
say their employer is Jeremiah, a pale 


faced, silver-haired high elf who travels 
through the sewers. The ruffians do 
not know the location of Jeremiah's lair, 
nor do they know they are charmed. 
However, they will tell the PCs that Jer 
emiah cannot be defeated, as all of the 
other adventurers who have entered 
the sewers have died. 


Ruffians (6): AC 7 (leather and 
shield); MV 12"; HD 3 (attack as 
third-level fighters); hp 20 each; # AT 

1; Dmg ld8; AL NE; Size M; XP 95 
each. 


Each ruffian carries 3dl0 gp and 
3dl0 sp. In addition, one of the ruffians 
has a potion of extra healing. Another 
ruffian has a potion of healing and a 
potion of sweet water. 

Against the western wall is a section 
of loose masonry (PCs must roll to find 
concealed doors). If a few of the blocks 
are pulled away, a small tunnel will be 
found leading to a makeshift ladder. It 
leads up to a removable section of floor 
ing in a corner of a large warehouse 
used by the thieves guild to store smug 
gled goods. 

6. Mud, muck, and moss fill this pas 
sageway, which leads to the entrance of 
Jeremiah's lair. It is guarded by the vam 
pire's minions. If the characters ven 
ture here, they will encounter the bats, 
rats, and nine merchants under the 
control of the vampire. The bats will 
not damage the characters and will fly 
off after five rounds. However, because 
there are so many of them, the player 
characters will suffer a -2 to hit modi 
fier during those five rounds. 


Bats (100): AC 8; MV l"/24"; HD 
not applicable; hp 1; # AT not appli 
cable; Dmg not applicable; AL N; Size 
S; XP 6 each. 

Rats (60): AC 7; MV 15"; HD Vt; 
HP 1 each; # AT 1; Dmg 1; AL N(E); 
Size S; XP 6 each. 

Characters bitten by a rat have a 
5% chance of contracting a disease 
unless they save vs. poison. 


Merchant No. 1 (third-level 
human fighter): AC 7; MV 12"; HD 
3; hp 24; # AT 1; Dmg ld8; AL NG; 
Size M; XP 107. 

Merchant/citizens No. 2 to No. 
8 (zero-level humans): AC 9; MV 

12"; HD 0; hp 5 each; # AT 1; Dmg 
ld6; AL NG; Size M; XP 10 each. 

Merchant No. 9 (sixth-level 
dwarven fighter, + 1 to hit): AC 
2 (bracers AC 5 and dex); MV 9"; HD 
6; hp 51; Dmg ld8 +5 (STR bonus 
and +2 long sword; XP 456. 


This encounter could tax the PCs, as 
the merchants and citizens are not evil, 
merely charmed. They have no trea 
sure (except the dwarf's items), as Jere 
miah stole almost everything from 
them. The PCs will recognize a few of 
the merchants from the guild's descrip 
tion of the missing members. 

If the characters have been carrying a 
light source, they will not be surprised 
by the bats, rats, and merchants. The 
bats will be the first to descend upon 
the party, with the rats joining in on the 
second round. The merchants join the 
melee on the third round. Because of 
the movement rates of these creatures, 
the PCs will not be able to outrun them. 
However, fire will drive the rats away 
after two combat rounds. 

Beyond this area the PCs will find a 
crude living quarters. Off this living 
quarters is a decaying stone wall with 
an iron-banded door (this is the door to 
Jeremiah's lair, he turns gaseous to get 
inside). Sitting in front of this door is an 
elderly man, who is reading a book by 
the light of an old lantern. If the PCs 
had interviewed people on the streets 
and in the alleys about the creature's 
attacks, they will recognize this man as 
one of those to whom they talked. Oth 
erwise, the PCs will recognize him as a 
beggar who used to be seen in the vicin 
ity of the Blue Dolphin. The beggar has 
been charmed by Jeremiah, who uses 
him to run simple errands. 

Gembor, a quiet, humble man, will be 
pleased to see the characters. The ruffi- 


45 


















ans Jeremiah charmed don't talk to 
Gembor, and Jeremiah isn't around 
much for company. Gembor is mildly 
insane and will carry on bizarre con 
versations with the characters, pontifi 
cating about the finer quality of his 
friends the bats and rats. He doesn't 
know anything about a creature or 
vampire. He just knows about a kind, 
silver-haired man who feeds him. 


Gembor: AC 10; MV 6"; HD 1; hp 4; 
# AT 1; Dmg ld4; AL N; Size M; XP 9. 


Gembor has a dagger, tattered 
clothes, and 5 sp. 

To get beyond this door, a PC thief 
must successfully open locks at a -20% 
chance (because the lock is very rust 
ed). The door can be forced open with a 
combined strength of 36. If the PCs 
choose, they can wait here for the vam 
pire to show. If they take this action, 
Jeremiah and his minion vampire will 
attack the party when some of the char 
acters are sleeping. 

6a. Beyond this door is an octagonal 
room. Against each wall are weathered 
and empty wine racks. This room 
served as a wine storage area for an old 
business. When the business burned 
down many years ago, this area was 
closed off and a new building construct 
ed above. There is no way to travel into 
the building above (unless you're a vam 
pire in gaseous form). Behind one of the 
wine racks is a concealed and locked 
iron door. 

6b. Opening the concealed door, the 
PCs see a set of stairs going down about 
20', leading to a triangular-shaped 
room. This, too, was once used as a 
storage room. If the characters go 
down the stairs, they will be greeted by 
a charnel stench. A light source will 
reveal the remains of three of the vam 
pire's latest victims. These corpses have 
not turned into vampires because they 
have not been buried, and Jeremiah did 
not want them to be undead. About 50 
rats swarm over the bodies and 
throughout this room. The rats will not 
attack the PCs, unless the PCs attempt 


to harm them. If the room is searched, 
the PCs will find a crack in the wall 
which leads off in the direction of 
another sewer branch. This crack is 
wide enough for a character to squeeze 
through (albeit uncomfortably). How 
ever, it leads to a dead end. Also in this 
room is another door, which is locked. 

6c. Opening this door the PCs will 
see darkness. This chamber is hidden 
by a spell of continual darkness and 
protected by the minion vampire. The 
vampire (not by mere coincidence), a 
female silver-haired elf, will attack as 
soon as any PC steps inside. Jeremiah 
wanted to confuse any authorities as 
much as possible by having two silver- 
haired creatures attack citizens in dif 
ferent sections of town. In addition, 
Jeremiah hoped this might throw suspi 
cion on his brother, Jonathon. 


Angelique, the vampire: AC 1; 

MV 12"/18"; HD 8 + 3; hp 35; # AT 1; 
Dmg ld4 +6; SA energy drain; SD 
+ 1 or better weapon needed to hit, 
regenerates 3 HP per round; AL CE; 
Size M; XP 1420. 


If Angelique is losing the melee too 
badly, she will turn into mist and 
attempt to leave to warn Jeremiah. 

If the characters search this room 
they will find coffers containing 124 pp, 
5,500 gp, 2,600 sp, 960 cp, a silken tap 
estry embroidered with various crea 
tures of the night (value 750 gp), a silver 
scepter capped with an Evil holy sym 
bol (value 2,100 gp), a silver dagger with 
a skull pommel (value 900 gp); a short 
sword +2; a potion of heroism; a potion 
of climbing; and a scroll with the follow 
ing magic-user spells: knock, dispel 
magic, dimension door; and teleport. 

A door off of his room leads to 
another octagonal chamber. The door is 
magically trapped and will deliver a 4- 
dice fireball to those within 20' of the 
door. The coffers have been carefully 
placed out of the range of the blast. 

6d. This is Jeremiah's chamber. A 
coffin rests at the center of this room. 
The room is damp and foul-smelling. 


Opulent chairs and a marble-topped 
table occupy half the room. The other 
half contains statuary and tapestries 
(total value 5,000 gp). However, the fur 
nishings do nothing to improve the 
gloominess of the setting. 

If the characters enter this area during 
daylight hours, they will have to contend 
with Angelique (if she is still alive) and Jer 
emiah. If the characters enter this cham 
ber in the evening, there is a 40% chance 
Jeremiah will be here. If the characters 
lie in wait for Jeremiah in this chamber, 
he (and possibly Angelique) will surprise 
them. Refer to Jeremiah's statistics in 
"The Night Gallery" chapter. If Jeremiah is 
alerted to the PCs' presence, he will 
attempt to come up behind them, begin a 
spell assault, and then move in to level 
drain them. 

Read this description to the charac 
ters when they find Jeremiah: 


The man before you looks like 
Jonathon Collins, his silvery hair cas 
cading to his shoulders. But the 
clothes are different, dark and drap 
ing, and he appears pale. The expres 
sion on his face is pure evil. He grins, 
and you note the blood-encrusted 
fangs as he moves to attack. 


7. This downward-slanted artery 
leads to a sea outlet beneath a wharf, 
which also functions as an entry for a 
rowboat (usually filled with contra 
band). If this section is explored during 
the night hours, the party will notice 
three smugglers unloading a boat filled 
with stolen silk (value 3,500 gp). The 
smugglers, who are not charmed but 
willingly work for Jeremiah, will notice 
the characters if the characters come 
closer than 100'. If the PCs are noticed, 
the smugglers will waste no time with 
words, but will attack. 


Smuggler No. 1 (Joe): AC 8; MV 

12"; F 4; hp 30; # AT 1; Dmg ld8; AL 
CE; Size M; XP 180. 

Joe wears leather armor, carries a 
long sword, dagger, and has 50 gp. 


46 


















Smuggler No. 2 (Rolf): AC 2 

(Dex bonus and magic armor); MV 
12"; F 6; hp 45; # AT 1; Dmg ld8 +2 
(strength bonus); AL CE; Size M; XP 
420. 

Rolf wears +2 leather armor, car 
ries a long sword, +1 dagger, and 
has 10 gp and a 50 gp pearl. 

Smuggler No. 3 (Ned Fast 
Hands): AC 4 (Dex bonus); MV 12"; 
T 9; hp 40; # AT 1; Dmg ld6 + 1; AL 
CE; Size M; XP 1080. 


Ned wears leather armor, carries a 
+1 short sword, and has 20 pp. His 
prized possession is a ring of spell stor 
ing, which holds two 6-dice lightning 
bolts (it cannot be recharged). His first 
action will be to direct a bolt against a 
spell-caster. Otherwise, he will direct 
the bolt against as many targets as pos 
sible, trying to save the last bolt in case 
he needs it to cover his escape.) 

8. Waist-deep water fills this artery. 
About 100' from the outlet are a few 
denizens which will attach themselves 
to a random explorer. 


Giant leech (6): AC 9; MV 3"; HD 3; 
hp 19 each; # AT 1; Dmg ld4; SA 
drain blood; AL N; Size S; XP 107 
each. 


9. The water in this section of the 
sewer system is not as deep as elsewhere, 
and the stone tile walls don't have slime 
growths. However, it appears that rust 
clings to the walls in one section. The rust 
is actually russet mold. Jeremiah is not 
aware of the creature. 


Russet mold: AC 9; MV 0"; hp 18 
(this mold covers only 10 square 
feet); # AT 0; Dmg 0; SA spores; AL N; 
Size S; XP 25. 


SecueR EwcouKiTeRs 

Roll ldlO for every half hour the PCs 
are in the sewer system. A 1 indicates a 
wandering encounter; a 1 or a 2 indi 


cates an encounter if the PCs are not 
taking any precautions to be quiet. Roll 
ld6 from the table below to determine 
the encounter. Do not reuse encoun 
ters. If the list becomes exhausted the 
PCs will not encounter further wander 
ing monsters. 

1. Vampire guard. The PCs will 
hear someone or something sloshing 
through the water in the sewer, coming 
toward them. This is a city guard who 
was attacked by Jeremiah and has since 
become a vampire. He is patrolling the 
sewer pipes to make sure no adventur 
ers or foolhardy merchants are hunting 
for Jeremiah. Initially, he will not attack 
the PCs, letting them think he is a city 
guard. He will converse with the PCs, 
telling them he is down here looking for 
the horrible creature, and he will cau 
tion the PCs to be careful. If the PCs let 
him by, he will wait till they move on, 
and then he will sneak up behind them, 
attempting to first level drain those in 
the rear. This vampire will not fight to 
the death, opting to escape, if possible, 
so he can warn Jeremiah. If the PCs are 
able to kill him, however, they may 
believe they have eliminated the men 
ace. If the PCs leave the sewer, they will 
find this is not the case, as the attacks 
against merchants and citizens will con 
tinue each night. 


Vampire guard: AC 1; MV 12"/ 
18"; HD 8+3; hp 35; # AT 1; Dmg 
ld4+6 (plus energy drain); AL CE; 
Size M; XP 1420. 


2. Zombie patrol. If the PCs are 

being reasonably quiet, they will hear 
sloshing sounds, as if several creatures 
or people were walking through the 
sewer pipes toward them. Jeremiah 
looted a local graveyard and magically 
animated 18 corpses to be his zombie 
patrol. They wander the sewers look 
ing for people who shouldn't be there. 
The zombies have been commanded to 
stay away from the ruffians' area, the 
smugglers' section, and have been 
ordered to leave Gembor alone, so they 


will not be encountered in those three 
locations. They likewise have been com 
manded to kill people wandering in all 
other areas. 


Zombie patrol (18): AC 8; MV 6"; 

HD 2; hp 2@16, 5@14, 5@12, 3@10, 
3@8; # AT 1; Dmg ld8; AL N; Size M; 
XP 44 each. 


3. Gray Ooze. The ooze have made 
their home in the sewers for the past 
few months, feeding lately off Jeremi 
ah's victims, an occasional sea creature 
trapped here, and adventurers. 


Gray ooze (2): AC 8; MV 1"; HD 

3+3; hp 22, 15; # AT 1; Dmg 2d8; SA 
corrodes metal; AL N; Size L, M; XP 
173 each. 


4. Zombie monster patrol. 

These bugbear zombies, magically cre 
ated by Jeremiah, have been given the 
same instructions as the 18-member 
zombie patrol. The PCs will hear them 
approach if the PCs are being reasona 
bly quiet. 


Zombie monsters (5): AC 6; MV 

9"; HD 6; hp 45,40,2@30,22; # AT 1; 

Dmg 4d46; AL N; Size L; XP 348 each. 

5. Vapor rats. These rats, drawn 
here out of curiosity because of the 
large number of rats in the sewer, will 
not attack the PCs unless first attacked 
or cornered. 


Vapor rats (8): AC 6 (or special); 
MV 12"/6"; HD 2; hp 4@12,4@9; # 
AT 1; Dmg ld2; SA stinking cloud; SD 
gaseous form; AL C(N); Size S; XP 48 
each. 


6. Crystal ooze. This creature is a 
newcomer to the sewer system. It has not 
had much luck finding food, as the other 
creatures in the sewer have been doing a 
good job keeping the sewer clean of 
bodies and debris. However, it has man 
aged to eat a few of Jeremiah's zombies. 
Jeremiah is unaware of its presence. 


47 
























Crystal ooze: AC 8; MV l"/3"; HD 
4; hp 17; # AT 4d4; SA paralysis; SD 
immune to heat, cold, fire. Weapons 
do 1 hp per blow; AL N; Size M; XP 
193. 


Lessen. Vampines 

To use the word "lesser" in regard to 
any vampire is a misnomer, but the typi 
cal vampire begins as a luckless mortal 
who falls prey to one of these creatures 
of the opposite sex. It is through the 
original vampire's feeding off the blood 
of the host that this process takes place, 
with the host creature losing one expe 
rience level per feeding until death. 
Within 24 hours after burial, the host 
then arises as a vampire under the con 
trol of its original slayer, remaining 
under its dominion until the slayer is 
itself somehow destroyed. 

The Appeanawce of 
Vamplnes 

Unlike other sorts of undead, who exist 
mostly on the Negative Material Plane, 
vampires retain much of their original 
appearance. What physical changes do 
occur tend to be limited to a chalkiness 
in complexion and a penetrating, 
unnerving stare. Vampires in human 
form avoid armor, and in most cases 
will be attired in the shrouds or cloth 
ing in which they were buried. 

Of course, vampires are not always 
met in human form. These monsters 
may assume canine (usually wolfen) 
form or that of a large bat. A poly- 
morphed vampire differs from a nor 
mal animal whose form it has assumed 
by being exceptionally large and having 
burning eyes. 

The VampiRe's La)r 

One consistent factor in all lairs of vam 
pires is that they are set within a locale 
that is difficult and time-consuming to 
search out. The creature is well aware 
that its need to rest during the hours of 
daylight is its Achilles' heel, and it 


always takes steps to make the discov 
ery of any of its resting places as diffi 
cult as possible for pursuers. 

About the general vicinity of the lair 
the vampire will have a number of 
lesser guardians to protect it. This can 
range from something as simple as a 
pack of wolves or rats, to one or more 
charmed helpers to mislead the unwary 
into going the wrong direction in their 
quest for the vampire's coffin(s). These 
lesser animal guardians need not be 
limited to the two creatures mentioned, 
for certainly in locales where wolves 
and rats are not commonplace the vam 
pire may employ other sorts of crea 
tures. In all cases, such guardians will 
be non-benign-snakes, scorpions, hor 
nets, or other similar things. 

Charmed creatures near the lair will 
always act in the vampire's best inter 
ests, willingly sacrificing themselves to 
protect their master if necessary. If 
deliberately employed as spies or assas 
sins, they may even join up with a party 
of adventurers who "rescue" them 
from a dungeon-turning upon their 
comrades at a critical time. 

Attack Fortds awd Special 
Abilities 

The most deadly attack form of the 
vampire is its energy-draining touch, 
which the creature employs with the 
benefits to hit and damage imparted by 
its exceptional strength. This ghastly 
touch operates in much the same man 
ner as a ghost's. 

An opponent slain through physical 
melee with a vampire does not become 
undead through this process. Rather, 
the creature's soul and vital life 
essences are destroyed and no resur 
rection is then possible, notwithstand 
ing wish or similar magics. 

It is perhaps a psychological weak 
ness of vampires that fighter-class 
undead of this type often resort to the 
use of melee weapons, with applicable 
strength and/or specialist bonuses, to 
show their contempt for living counter 
parts. 

As is well known, vampires may pro 


ject a powerful charm through their 
eyes. The range for this is 20', and it is 
most frequently employed against 
members of the opposite sex. 

The charm certainly may be used 
against those of the same sex and lasts 
indefinitely in either case. As an alter 
nate usage, when the monster desires 
to remain inconspicuous, a creature 
making eye-contact with the vampire is 
subject to a suggestion spell. 

Among the most useful of the crea 
ture's abilities is that of assuming gas 
eous form. When in this form, the 
vampire resembles a cloud grey smoke 
and may travel at a 10" movement rate 
under doorways and through cracks 
and holes within masonry. In gaseous 
form, the creature is immune to all 
damage-causing spells save magic mis 
sile or other spells similar in nature. 

Due to its undead status, vampires 
cannot be harmed by poison, or charm, 
sleep, and hold-type magics. 

The ability of the creature to regener 
ate 3 hit points per melee round is effec 
tive against all sorts of damage except 
that caused by holy water fashioned by 
a good-aligned cleric (the rate of regen 
eration vs. this damage is 1 point/ full 
turn). 

It is untrue that a vampire must 
always rest within its coffin during day 
light hours. If deep underground and 
well away from the sun, a vampire may 
function if necessary, although it loses 
Vi its hit points for each day it does not 
rest. The vampire may not under any 
circumstances go more than three days 
without rest. And should it be fought 
and reduced to 0 hit points while day 
light remains, it will not turn gaseous 
and is subject to final destruction 
through a stake in the heart. 

DeaHwg With VarnpiRes 

The creature exists solely for its own 
benefit. And while it lacks the hatred 
some other undead feel toward the liv 
ing, it certainly views living characters 
with contempt, not unjustifiably believ 
ing itself to be superior. Yet vampires 
are known to work occasionally in con- 


48 













cert with Evil forces for mutual gain. 

When a party of adventurers is 
forced into a confrontation with a vam 
pire, their ultimate goal must be finding 
its resting place and driving a stake 
through the vampire's heart. 

Tools effective against the vampire 
include: 

Garlic. This causes the vampire to 
make a save vs. spell in order to attack 
someone either wearing or presenting 
it. 

Mirrors. Vampires try to avoid 
being between a mirror and a target. 
The effect is to make the monster hesi 
tate ld4 rounds before attacking. 

Neutral holy symbols. These 
likewise result in the vampire's hesitat 
ing ld4 rounds while it musters 
strength to attack the possessors. 

Good holy symbols. Such objects, 
especially the cross, are an absolute 
defense against the creature, forcing it 
to turn away if boldly presented. Their 
protection is lost should the vampire be 
subsequently attacked by the bearer. 

DM)wg VaroplRes 

Vampires should be played as the pow 
erful and intelligent creatures that they 
are. Their contempt for lesser living 
beings provides opportunities for 
active roleplaying between the monster 
and the characters, for a vampire 
would enjoy few things more than 
taunting its pursuers verbally-and 
leading them into a number of traps 
and tricks as well. 

The fact that vampires "cannot" cross 
bodies of running water is true only to 
the extent that they cannot move 
through such terrain. They certainly 
may cross over by means of spell, boat, 
or magic items such as a ring of water 
walking. 

Ultimately, the vampire's motives will 
be to survive, and so it should never by 
"easy" for a group of adventurers to 
locate and slay the creature in its lair. 
Certainly, though, the ego of the mon 
ster is such that while it leads its pursu 
ers on a merry chase before its 
intended escape, it might well place 


itself in a position where it could be 
defeated by a fast-thinking group of 
opponents. 

GReaTeR VaroplRes 

It is from the life-draining kiss of the 
succubus that greater vampires are 
born. A major difference between 
these and lesser vampires is that the 
creature may exist safely in daylight, 
although it possesses no special abilities 
other than spell immunity common to 
all vampires, and its great strength (18/ 
00). During the hours of darkness, how 
ever, the creature is every bit as deadly 
as its lesser counterpart. And the fact it 
is mobile during daylight hours makes 
it that much more so. 

The AppeaRawce of 
GReaTeR VaroplRes 

These creatures look no different from 
lesser vampires. Their greater freedom 
of activity and weakness during the 
daylight, however, may result in their 
being more prone to wearing various 
outfits and armor. 

The La)R of GReaTeR 
VamplRes 

Greater mobility makes this monster's 
lair all the more difficult to locate. 
Because the vampire may look no dif 
ferent from any other citizen, the loca 
tion of its resting place can be hidden 
almost anywhere, with guardians often 
totally unaware of their master's true 
nature. 

Attack Fortds a K>d Special 
Abilities 

These creatures possess all the regular 
attack forms and abilities of lesser vam 
pires. In addition, their gaze weapon 
also may be employed as a hold person 
spell. 

Another talent they may employ is to 
summon minor demons to serve them 
for up to 24 hours. This only may be 
attempted during the hours of dark 
ness, obviously, and the monster has a 


40% chance of successfully summoning 
a Type 1 demon, and a 20% chance of 
summoning a Type 2 demon. 

These monsters are turned by clerics 
as specials. 

Dealing With GReaTeR 
VampiRes 

During the hours of darkness, the 
greater vampire may be handled in 
much the same fashion as any lesser 
vampire. 

An important difference is that the 
monster is entirely immune to all lesser 
charms. Even good holy symbols affect 
the creature only if it fails a save vs. 
spell. 

During the hours of daylight, the 
monster is far more limited. If caught 
and battled at that time, it may be slain 
much more easily and will not turn gas 
eous upon reaching 0 hit points. A stake 
through the heart still is required to 
assure its end. 

DMlKjg GReaTeR VamplRes 

Greater vampires are far more deadly 
than their lesser counterparts. In 
almost every case, the creature will 
adopt the persona of a normal citizen, 
frequently wealthy, and will do its 
utmost to keep its true nature a secret, 
often moving on to a new locale after 
garnering a few victims. It needs rest in 
a coffin filled with earth from where it 
died only if reduced to 0 hit points and 
gaseous form. 

Should this be impossible, the vam 
pire will die with the coming of dawn. 


AC 0; MV 12"/18'; HD 10; # AT 1; 
Dmg 2d6; SA energy drain; SD +1 or 
better weapon need to hit; AL CE; 
XP 5000 + 10 per hit point. 


49 









GHOSTS 


Terrain: City outskirts or countryside 
Party Levels: 42 (average 7th) 

Magic X.P.: 1450 
Treasure X.P.: 4775 
Monster X.P.: 

Kill: 8949 Defeat: 6711 

Retreat: 2237 

Setup 

• A year or so ago, Hieronymous Bos- 
co, a powerful wizard dwelling outside 
the port of Ravens Bluff, died a victim, 
some say, of his unholy experiments. 
Rumors abound in the city that his 
abandoned manor is filled with trea 
sure and artifacts collected over the 
years. 

• After a bit too much bragging, one 
of the PCs has been goaded into accept 
ing a dare that he and his friends will 
spend the night of a full moon within 
the deserted estate of Hinton Ampner, a 
haunted mansion shunned by local city 
dwellers-or forfeit an item of great 
personal value. 

• Night falls, and with it comes a 
driving rainstorm. In the distance, nes 
tled by a crossroads miles from 
nowhere, a dark and brooding mansion 
looms up, offering shelter from the ele 
ments. For a moment, a feeble light 
shines forth from a tower window, pos 
sibly illuminating a face staring down. 
Then all is dark. 

The Mansion 

From the outside, the mansion can be 
seen to be a three-story structure with 
a single round tower at its southeast 
corner one additional story in height. 
Stained glass windows are set into 
many of the manor's outer walls, with 
frescoes and statuary of gargoyles and 
other such nether creatures bursting 
forth from the manor's many gables 
and ramparts. 

Entry may obviously be gained 
through direct approach up the front 
stairs, or more discreetly through the 
gates of an inner courtyard to the 
southwest. 


1. Ma)nj EkjTrv 

Fronted by two statues of laughing gar 
goyles set at the base of its railings, a 
stone stairway leads up to a porch and 
double doors. Here a pair of brass 
knockers in the form of lions' heads are 
set into the stout, black oak portals, and 
cursory examination of the handles will 
reveal the doors apparently are 
unlocked. If the knocker is used, a hol 
low reverberation will echo from with 
in, and the doors will slowly creak open 
of their own accord. They otherwise 
will prove to be oddly unyielding, 
resisting any attempts to be forced, 
short of a knock spell. Upon the group's 
abandoning the idea and turning away, 
however, the doors will swing open of 
their own accord, daring the brave to 
enter. 

22. GaTeuuAY 

Two wrought iron gates, 8' in height, 
are chained closed with a rusty pad 
lock. On the other side, an outbuilding 
and a cobblestone courtyard are visi 
ble. 

3. STabl.es 

Long before the wizard acquired and 
modified the mansion, these stables 
housed riding and draft beasts. Stalls 
filled with rotted hay now line most of 
the barn to the south, whilst a forge and 
smithing equipment is set to the north. 
When the adventurers enter, they will 
hear a light scampering in the rafters 
above, the home now of a few rats. 

4. CourTyarc5 

Scratches and scuff marks on the cob 
blestone courtway suggest it has been 
heavily used by horses. To the north 
east is the mansion's well, where an old 
bucket hangs from a frayed hemp rope. 
If the shaft is explored, a passage will be 
discovered a few feet above the water 
leading to a 10 ' x 10' room holding an 
empty coffin. 


5. EnjTry<Juay 

Beyond the front doors lies a long hall 
way with a large chandelier hanging 
just inside, cobwebs covering its many 
crystal facets. As the last PC passes near 
it, the rope holding the chandelier will 
suddenly part, causing the character to 
save vs. dragon breath or suffer 2d6 
points of crushing damage. 

Along the east and west walls hang a 
few valueless paintings of nondescript 
subjects, and at both ends of the north 
wall stand two sets of decorative plate 
armor. 

6. GuAizb STaIrujay 

With a groan, the twin doors of the out 
er hallway will open to reveal a magnifi 
cent stairway of pink and white marble 
leading up to the second story. A web- 
covered grandfather clock, its hands 
stopped at 12:00, stands against the 
opposite wall. If examined, the clock's 
movement will be found to be broken. 
If the PCs move to the east, however, 
the clock will chime 13 times, a warning 
of danger from Lady Samantha, a lesser 
ghost from the manor's third story. 

Z. CLoaIc Room 

This cubicle once held the cloaks and 
furs of visiting nobles. Now, only a sim 
ple black body cloak hangs from a wall 
peg. If it is examined, within a pocket 
will be found an iron skeleton key that 
will unlock the laboratory door (Room 
31 ). 

8. UbRARY 

Bookcases line the southern walls of 
this teak-paneled room, while an empty 
desk sits to the north beneath a coat of 
arms. A character with heraldry skills 
will note the crest belonged to a noble 
family which fell into financial difficul 
ties a few years ago and faded away. 

Many books (total value 2,500 gp) 
dealing with history and magical sub 
jects line the shelves of the bookcases. If 
the tomes are used in spell research, 
they will aid in the creation of necro- 


50 



QHOSrS 



mantic spells up to the fourth level of 
power. 

Long ago, one of the wizard's young 
apprentices was fetching a book from 
an upper shelf when it slipped from his 
grasp and fell to the floor. His enraged 
master beat the boy mercilessly, caus 
ing his death. The lad's spirit now 
haunts this room in the form of a pol 
tergeist. 


Poltergeist (1): AC 10; MV 6"; HD 

0; hp 2; # AT nil; Dmg nil; SA fear; SD 
invisibility, silver or magic weapon 
needed to hit; AL LE; XP 36. 


The boy's angry spirit, now bound to 
the room in which he died, will toss a 
book at a random PC, causing the char 
acter to save vs. fear or flee the room if 
struck. Others may attack the invisible 
force at a -4 penalty to hit, or clerics 
may deal with it in the usual manner. 

9 . Secret STaiRCJuay 

This hidden stairway to the chapel on 
the third floor is reached through a 
swiveling bookcase in the southeast 
corner of the previous room. Cobwebs 
filled with harmless spiders choke the 
passage upward, and those mounting 
the creaky wooden stairs will be aware 
there is little if any potential of gaining 
surprise on any hidden foes. 

10. Laches' SIXVnog Room 

Upon the opening of its brass-handled 
doors, the sound of a softly babbling 
brook will be heard from within. Once 
used by a former mistress of the house 
as an after-dinner gathering place for 
women of refinement, this large cham 
ber is pleasantly decorated with paint 
ings and tapestries depicting attractive 
floral settings and themes. Dainty furni 
ture, including couches, chairs, and 
tables, are set throughout the room, 
which is hauntingly illuminated by 
shafts of silver moonlight penetrating 
through the turret's stained glass win 
dows. It is here in the area of the win 
dows, which offer a pleasant panorama 


51 










of a woodland scene, that a permanent 
audible glamer spell has been placed. 
The sounds heard by the party are a 
result of the spell, reminding visitors of 
the great outdoors. 

A marble fireplace, long unused, is in 
the southwest corner of the room with 
a coat of arms identical to the set in the 
library sculpted into it. A cabinet to the 
northeast will be found to contain a fine 
tea service, hand-painted with floral 
garnishings (value 70 gp). 

11. KTCches) 

Meals were once prepared here, and 
two ovens stand in the southwest cor 
ner of the room. Various sorts of cut 
lery and dinner services are on the 
shelves, along with a few rats. 

1H. PanTry 

No longer stocked with food, this cubi 
cle has become the domain of a few 
mice. 

15. DiKJiNjg Room 

Dominating this chamber is a huge 
mahogany table with a brass candle- 
holder placed at the center. Dust now 
covers several quality dinner services 
(total value 250 gp) and 10 chairs ring 
ing the table. 

The most unusual facet of this room, 
however, is a full-length portrait of the 
wizard attired in a black robe and leer 
ing down from its gilded frame at those 
entering this chamber. It hangs above a 
fireplace to the east, and while it is a 
simple artist's trick to make the eyes of 
a subject appear to follow one about the 
room, this portrait is unique in that the 
entire face of the wizard seems to turn 
with the movement of observers, keep 
ing them ever in his sight. If closely 
examined, the signature of Dreamspin- 
ner, a famous local artist known for 
fashioning magical paintings, will be 
found in the lower right-hand corner. 
Because of its intimidating theme, the 
painting has a value of but 50 gp. 


1 A. Carr)A ge House 

In the northwest corner of this barn 
stands a fine carriage of black, with 
lamps and trim of silver and gold. 
Although retaining the crest of the orig 
inal owners on its glass-paned doors, 
the wizard had it altered somewhat to 
conform to his own tastes. The result- 
skull-shaped lamps, and the like-gives 
the carriage a hearse-like appearance. 
Four to six draft horses are needed to 
haul the carriage about, but a price of 
1,500 gp could be obtained for it. 

The heavy carriage was deliberately 
left in this corner to protect an iron 
spike hammered into the ground. It was 
here in this corner that the wizard, 
once servant to the family who built the 
mansion, arranged for an "accident" to 
befall the family patriarch upon learn 
ing the man intended to denounce him 
as a practitioner of the black arts. A 
rope tied to the rafters, which held a 
heavy set of wagon wheels, was cut, 
causing the wheels to fall and crush 
their victim. Although buried in the 
family crypts within the house, the old 
man's spirit remained here, seeking 
revenge, until a cleric was paid to lay it 
to rest, pinning the spirit in the ground 
with the spike. Should that spike be 
removed, the man's haunt will be 
released. 


Haunt (1): AC 0; MV 6"; HD 5; hp 
20; # AT 1; Dmg special; SA posses 
sion; SD nil; AL NG; XP 265. 


The haunt, a former fighter, will seek 
to attack and possess a member of the 
fighter class if at all possible, thereafter 
using the host to enter the secret stair 
way (9) and ascend to the chapel on the 
third floor, where it will acquire for the 
party a weapon helpful against the wiz 
ard's ghost. 

Someone possessed by the haunt will 
suffer no lasting effects, but will be 
unable to communicate or take his or 
her own initiative until the creature 
leaves upon gaining the sword in the 
chapel crypt. 


1 5. STabLemAws QuarTors 

This room holds only a small wooden 
bed and a closet in which there is a pair 
of old boots encrusted with mud. 

16. OveRseeR's QuARXeRs 

In addition to a bed and empty closet, a 
desk sits in the northwest corner of the 
room. If searched, ledgers illustrating 
the monthly household budget will be 
discovered in a drawer along with an 
inkwell and pen. 

1Z. WoizkeRs' QuARXeRs 

Twelve bunks and as many empty lock 
ers will be found here. 

18. MA)dseRVAtoXs' QuARXeRs 

Eight beds and lockers along with a 
small table will be found in this room. 

19 . Scnoklwg Room 

Once used by the master of the estate as 
a room to entertain fellow noblemen 
after dinner, cabinets against the south 
ern wall hold a fine selection of liqueurs 
and not-so-fresh tobaccos. Since the 
master was proud of his hunting 
exploits, quite a number of stuffed 
heads, ranging from deer to an owl 
bear, hang on the walls of this rustic 
chamber, paneled in oak and cedar. 
Stained glass windows in the northeast 
wall show a hunting panorama, while 
above a fireplace to the west hangs a 
fine large crossbow (value 300 gp), 
inlaid with the silver filigree crest of the 
family. Although non-magical, the 
crossbow's fine workmanship is such 
that it grants a bonus of +1 to damage 
rolls. 

Another selection of crossbows, 
bows, and spears is arranged on the 
western wall, and should the group 
explore the room, a spear will launch 
itself at a random character, striking to 
hit as a 5 HD monster. 


52 











20 . Secret STaiRuoav 

Behind a sliding panel in the dining 
room, stairs eventually climb to a 
locked room on the second floor. As the 
adventurers step forward, a low moan 
ing backed by the sounds of rattling 
chains and heavy footfalls will be heard 
approaching from above. The noises 
will continue until reaching the land 
ing. They will then stop, not to be heard 
again. 

If the stairs are ascended, a door will 
be found on the second floor. The door, 
which leads to the wizard's laboratory, 
is wizard locked, but a character with 
the skeleton key from the cloakroom (7) 
may open it. 

21. LANjdiwg Atob Gable 

Those ascending the grand staircase 
will emerge at a showcase point of the 
manor, for here, set into two arches 
within a gable to the south, are a set of 
stained glass windows proudly display 
ing from floor to ceiling the crests of 
both the former lord and lady of the 
manor. Thick, dust-covered maroon 
carpeting decorated with golden pea 
cocks is upon the floor, and two sets of 
double doors will be noticed in the 
northern wall. As the doors are 
approached, the noises of organ music, 
laughter, and merriment will be heard 
coming from the other side. 

22. BaLlRoom 

The sounds will instantly die as the por 
tals are opened to reveal an oak-floored 
ballroom. Cobwebs now lace the ceiling 
between six sets of unlit chandeliers, 
and a thick layer of dust upon the floor 
reveals the tracks of a few rats and 
mice. Stairs up to the third level will be 
observed in the northern wall, along 
with a set of double doors which lead to 
the west wing. 

A huge pipe organ and bench stand 
against the eastern wall, covered, like 
everything else, in dust and cobwebs. 
Those drawing near to it will note a 
faint flapping noise coming from deep 
within the mahogany shell of the organ. 


which will radiate magic if checked. 
Bound into a magic canvas bag within 
the organ is its source of power: 


Air elemental (1): AC 2; MV 36"; 
HD 8; hp 40; # AT 1; Dmg 2dl0; SA 
whirlwind; SD +2 or better weapon 
needed to hit; AL N; XP 3,450. 


If the upper lid of the organ is pried 
loose, the bag will be observed flapping 
about within the large recess it occu 
pies. Should the bag be disturbed by a 
sharp object, it must save vs. normal 
blow or part, releasing the elemental. 

A similar danger exists if a character 
untrained in the use of keyboards fid 
dles with the organ's dozens of keys and 
tabs, misusing the instrument. If this 
happens, there is a 10% chance each 
round that the neck of the bag will part 
from the pipe conduits, allowing the 
elemental to escape and attack. 

A check of the bench compartment 
will reveal a few score sheets of com 
mon tunes. 

23. Music Room 

Cheerfully paneled in white and gold, 
this large chamber holds several chairs, 
couches, and a variety of musical 
instruments including a set of bagpipes, 
a mandolin, three lutes, a guitar, a harp, 
a zither, a virginal, and a large harpsi 
chord. 

This room was once a favorite of 
Lady Samantha, daughter of the lord of 
the manor, and target of the wizard's 
unwanted affections. Her spirit often 
spends much time here, and the first 
character through the door will feel a 
slight wafting of air brush past him. 
Because of the distance between this 
room and the chamber in which she 
died, Lady Samantha cannot form or 
otherwise make known to the adven 
turers the fact that she and the other 
spirits on the grounds are bound to the 
manor while the wizard's ghost 
remains. In an attempt to gain the 
group's attention, though, she will for 
10 rounds manage to possess her harp 
sichord, sharply rapping the keys 


thrice. If anyone takes the cue and asks 
questions, she will respond by rapping 
once for yes and twice for no until 10 
rounds have passed. She knows all 
about the manor and the various spirits 
inhabiting it, as well as the fact that a 
sword may be found in the chapel crypt 
of her father which can help slay the 
wizard's ghost. 

2A-27. Guest Rooms 

Large brass beds will be found within 
these chambers along with an empty 
wardrobe holding a copper bed warm 
er. 

28. Guest Room 

While a duplicate of the former room, 
leaves and debris lie about the floor 
here, blown in from an open window in 
the northern wall. On the door's being 
opened, a fluttering will be heard as the 
chamber's sole occupant becomes 
aware of intrusion into its lair: 


Gryph (1): AC 6; MV 21 M ; HD 2; hp 
10; # AT 1; Dmg 2d6; AL NE; XP 48. 

The six-legged bird is lairing in its emp 
ty nest in the ceiling rafters. 

29. Guest Room 

Heavy throw rugs and tapestries 
imported from Tethyr decorate the 
walls and ceilings of this chamber, along 
with a small brass bed, a wardrobe, an 
overstuffed chair with ottoman, and a 
writing table. 

30. Utoeto Closet 

Inside here are a few quilts and other 
bedding. 

31. LaboRaToRy 

It is here, within his old laboratory, that 
the wizard's ghost spends much of its 
time, and it will certainly take steps to 
protect its lair from intruders. Aware of 
the group's movements about the 
manor, the ghost will treat those 
ascending from the dining room to the 


53 













sounds of its moving down the stairs to 
meet them. The sounds of its rattling 
chains will cease midway down as the 
ghost de-materializes and floats 
through the walls, circling around to 
attack the group from behind if they 
enter its lair. 

As mentioned, the door to the labora 
tory is wizard-locked (at the 13th level), 
but a character with the skeleton key 
from the cloak room may neutralize the 
spell by using it. Inside, tables filled 
with beakers, braziers, tongs, and oth 
er assorted alchemical supplies will be 
found. Shelving holds vials of glass and 
crystal, many of which are filled with 
different sorts of powders, and a 
human skeleton is hanging from a hook 
on the ceiling in the northwest corner. 
Near a set of stairs leading to the third 
level in the southern portion of the 
chamber, a circle of conjuration will be 
seen. A small shelf in the wall above it 
holds several tomes dealing with some 
of the darker aspects of necromancy. 
(Good-aligned characters who are able 
to and fail to destroy the books will lose 
500 experience points. The tomes oth 
erwise will gain a magic-user skilled in 
necromancy a like amount of experi 
ence if they are closely studied.) 

Upon the party's incursion into this 
room, the wizard's ghost will material 
ize behind the party and attack. 


Ghost (1): AC 0/8; MV 9"; HD 10; hp 
60; # AT 1; Dmg Id4xl0 years; SA 
magic jar, fear; SD silver or magic 
weapon needed to hit; AL LE; XP 
4,090. 


The creature barely resembles its 
former self, with transparent features 
now twisted and distorted. About its 
body are wrapped heavy chains, which 
bespeak of the wickedness of the wiz 
ard in life. 

The ghost will seek to magic jar a 
magic-user if one is present, thereafter 
utilizing its host's spells against the par 
ty. If this is unsuccessful or impossible, 
the creature will materialize to physi 
cally attack, departing through the roof 


if it sustains over 20 points of damage. 

Attacks upon the host will not harm 
the ghost, but the creature will depart if 
the magic-user is slain or otherwise pre 
vented from casting spells. 

512. CbapeL 

The original owners of the manor were 
good people with a great respect for 
their faith. Here, on the uppermost sto 
ry of the house, they had a small chapel 
constructed and overseen by Brother 
Frederick, a just and honorable cleric of 
Torm. Always an opponent of the wiz 
ard, it was Brother Frederick who first 
suggested to the lord of the estate that 
the mage was dabbling in forbidden 
arts. In the south gable, a stained-glass 
panorama of the world's creation may 
be viewed, and a few feet in front of it is 
a dusty altar. Four wooden pews rest in 
the center of the chamber, and set with 
in an alcove in the northeast wall 
behind them is a 8' statue of Torm. To 
the statue's left, a doorway permits 
entrance to the quarters of Brother Fre 
derick, and a set of double doors to the 
statue's right once allowed exit to the 
outer hallways; now they are boarded 
up and blocked off on the other side. 
Fastly, a small crypt area lies within the 
northwest wall of the chapel. Three 
plaques list those whose remains lie 
within, and a fourth is empty. The first 
holds the body of the mistress of the 
manor, and is engraved: 

"Dame Paige Hinton- 

Beloved wife and mother" 

Next is her husband's crypt, that of 
Sir John Ampner. The plaque has irrev 
erently been stone-shaped with a rude 
inscription by the callous wizard, and 
now has an added line: 

"Here lies John- 

We're rather glad he's gone" 

It is toward this crypt that Sir John's 
haunt will head if it has the opportuni 
ty, prying loose the plaque to unearth 
his remains. The character possessed 
by the haunt will then reach in and pull 
out the lord's broadsword, and the spir 
it will thereafter depart the body, float 
ing down through the flooring. 


The sword is a flametongue, whose 
powers may be activated by utterance 
of the word "Flicker" engraved on the 
blade. 

Brother Fredericks resting place is 
last and has its own caustic epitaph: 

"Here lies Fred - 

He's better off dead" 

It was after successfully arranging 
the murder of Sir John while Brother 
Frederick was away on retreat that the 
wizard next schemed to remove the last 
barrier between himself and Fady 
Samantha. The cleric in fact fell prey to 
the wizard here in his own sanctuary, 
and there is much psychic energy left in 
the area. 

Those entering the chapel face two 
possible visions of the priest's last 
moments. Should the party start to 
enter the chapel without the presence 
of the haunt, a brown-robed figure will 
suddenly press beyond the rearmost 
characters, passing through those in its 
way as it heads toward the altar. All 
viewing it, save those immune to fear, 
must save vs. spell at -2 or be affected 
by the equivalent of a fear spell. This is 
the phantom (see MONSTER MANUAF 
II) of Brother Frederick, and it will 
approach the altar, where a dark man 
awaits. The figure, bathed like the cler 
ic in a feral light, will be noted to be the 
same man in the portrait in the lower 
dining room. Silently, the two will 
argue, with the discourse becoming 
more heated as time progresses. Sud 
denly from the darkness of the ceiling 
rafters, three shadows will descend 
upon and attack the priest, and the wiz 
ard will let fly magic missiles. A bright 
flash will then occur, and the scene will 
be gone. A character who enters with 
the haunt will, upon retrieval of the 
sword, note the light in the chamber. 
They may then turn and observe the 
last moments of the argument and the 
cleric's end. 

33. LMtog QuAtzTetzs 

Brother Frederick's simple chambers 
are here, containing a bed, wash table, 
and a few old robes hanging from wall 


54 
















pegs. A doorway once leading to the 
outer hallway has likewise been board 
ed up from the other side. 

54. VestRy UbRARy 

Here, a few ceremonial robes hang 
within a wardrobe, and a number of 
bookshelves hold religious writings. A 
small writing table and stool stand in an 
alcove to the south. Upon it rest a few 
leaves of parchment and a dried bottle 
of ink holding an old quill. 

55. Alchemical STorzerzoom 

This room contains miscellaneous sup 
plies for the laboratory below. A non- 
magical cloak also hangs upon a peg on 
the eastern wall. 

36. Lathy SamawTba's Cell 

After the demise of those who stood in 
his way, it took little time for the domi 
neering wizard to gain control of the 
estate, assuming its debts and using his 
own fortune to support its upkeep. 
Despised by Lady Samantha, who 
spurned his offer to remain mistress of 
the estate if she would submit to him, 
the mage finally locked the damsel in 
this tower room until such time as she 
would change her mind. Resistant to 
the end, she eventually starved to death 
here. Past the locked door, spartan liv 
ing quarters will be discovered, with 
only a few sticks of furniture. A skele 
ton clad in a long satin dress, Lady 
Samantha's remains, lies in a corner, 
cruelly left here to molder. 

Because it was here within this room 
that she died, Lady Samantha is able to 
materialize and attempt communica 
tion. Those who enter will catch sight 
of a transparent form coalescing over 
the body, and it will be obvious to all 
that this must indeed be the spirit of 
whomever's body lies upon the flag 
stones. In spirit form she still retains all 
of her grace and beauty, but upon her 
face is a look of great sorrow. Pleading 
ly, she will stretch out a hand (prefera 
bly toward a female PC), indicating for 
someone to grasp it. 


Lesser ghost (1): AC 3; MV 18"; 
HD; hp 16; # AT 0; Dmg nil; SD sil 
ver or magic weapon needed to hit; 
AL LG; XP 260. 


Should the offer be taken, the spirit 
will disappear, temporarily possessing 
the body of whomever took her hand. 
The host's mouth will then open, and 
Lady Samantha's voice will urge the 
adventurers to slay the wizard's ghost, 
explaining that he is responsible for the 
many deaths of those who once dwelled 
here, and that the spirits on the 
grounds cannot rest until then. She will 
go on to mention that the wizard's ghost 
spends most of its time in his laboratory 
below or in his bed chamber above, and 
if it is not in sight, she will urge the PCs 
fetch the sword from her father's crypt 
to aid in the ghost's slaying. Lastly, she 
will request the adventurers, upon 
completion of their quest, inter her in 
the empty vault in the chapel. She oth 
erwise will be able to answer any of the 
group's questions for up to three addi 
tional rounds before departing the host 
and fading to nothingness. 

If no one grasps her hand, she will 
turn away, silently weeping, and fade 
away into a corner. If attacked, she will 
seek to dematerialize and escape 
through the floor. 

Should the chamber be searched, 
each character has a 25% chance of not 
ing a golden ring lying in a dusty corner 
of the room. The ring, delicately sculpt 
ed with tiny flowers and hum 
mingbirds, will radiate magic if 
checked. It was a gift from Hierony- 
mous Bosco which Lady Samantha 
threw away. The only thing magical 
about the ring is that it has been 
enchanted to a great hardness despite 
its apparent fragility (consider it to have 
a saving throw of 2 vs. all effects, with a 
value of 50 gp). 

37. STafRUjay 

Through this door, a web-filled stair 
way winds upward into the tower. 


38. BedRoom 

A large gable affords an excellent view 
of the surrounding countryside 
through its three teak-framed windows 
to the south of this chamber. In the west 
stands a cherry wardrobe filled with 
moth-eaten men's and women's cloth 
ing, and against the northern wall is an 
ebony dressing table holding a number 
of crusty bottles of makeup and a few 
pieces of jewelry (value 75 gp). Lastly, a 
double canopied bed with a red satin 
comforter stands in an alcove to the 
east. 

This chamber was once occupied by 
the lord and lady of the manor during 
happier times. When the lady died of 
natural causes and was laid to rest in 
the chapel, Lady Samantha's father 
kept the room unchanged until his own 
death a few months later. 

39. Bath 

This room is tiled in marble and con 
tains a large brass bathtub to the south. 
Shelving holds a few towels along with 
a selection of bath salts. 

40. Study 

This cheerful room was obviously a 
study, although its bookcases hold 
items of more interest to a younger per 
son than a serious scholar. A desk 
stands before a window seat overlook 
ing the courtyard, and should it be 
searched, an abacus will be found along 
with a few sheets of less-than-accurate 
math work. 

41. BedRoom 

As the adventurers draw near the door 
of this room, the tinkling strains of a 
music box will be detected coming from 
within. This was Lady Samantha's 
chamber, which the group will notice 
has a markedly feminine look to it, with 
frilly furniture and soft carpeting. A 
bed with a white canopy from which 
hang rows of silvery tassels rests in the 
eastern alcove. A dressing table and 
mirror stand against the southern wall, 


55 















next to a wardrobe filled to capacity 
with various gowns of lace and satin, 
along with dozens of pairs of shoes. 
Next to windows in the western wall is 
a wicker luncheon table and four 
chairs, two of which are occupied by 
very old dolls. An open music box rests 
upon the center of the table. If Lady 
Samantha hasn't yet been encountered, 
a random character entering the room 
will feel a rush of air with her spirit's 
passing. 

A 2. Usj&sj cLoseT. 

Inside here will be discovered a few 
sets of normal linens. 

A3. BehRoom 

This was once the bed chamber of Lady 
Samantha's tutor. In later times, 
though, she was dismissed and 
replaced by an apprentice of the wiz 
ard. Now, only a pair of beds and an 
empty wardrobe remain. 

A A. Be&Tzoom 

Three upstairs maids were once quar 
tered here until their' dismissal by 
Hieronymous. The room then fell into 
disuse and is now filled with a few box 
es of rubbish. 

AS. BehRoom 

This chamber was last occupied by the 
wizard's chief apprentice. And it is per 
haps fitting that the mage met his own 
duplicitous end through the hand of his 
equally ambitious apprentice. Remain 
ing in the room are a brass bed in the 
northern alcove, an empty wardrobe to 
the northwest, and a few bookcases to 
the south. A desk filled with a few 
leaves of parchment and old inkwells 
stands against the eastern wall. 

A6. Wizard's Room 

The dust-covered steps from below will 
soon emerge into the tower's upper 
most level. Once filled with the tools of 
the wizard's trade, the entire chamber 
will be observed to have suffered thor 


ough ravaging and searching. Shelves 
once holding beakers of unknown com 
ponents have been emptied, with much 
of their contents dumped onto the 
floor. Beneath an empty bookshelf to 
the south, the drawers of a large desk 
lie carelessly overturned on the 
ground, their papers trodden on in 
someone's haste to quickly seize any 
goods of value. 

The wizard's web-covered and blood 
stained bed lies against the northern 
wall next to an empty wardrobe. Still 
lying upon the floor, where it fell from 
his grasp, is the goblet once holding the 
poisoned wine that was his undoing. 

Even as his master convulsed in ago 
ny, his ambitious chief apprentice 
entered the room and plunged a dagger 
into his heart, ending the wizard's life. 
Wasting no time, the mage then ran 
sacked the chamber and packed away 
his teacher's valuables. He then made 
good his escape from the grounds, leav 
ing it for a frightened servant to discov 
er the dead wizard the next morning. 

With Hieronymous' demise, the manor 
immediately became taken over by the 
dead. The frightened servants stayed just 
long enough to inform the local authori 
ties of the wizard's death before leaving 
the estate to whatever was responsible 
for the unearthly noises that began by 
the next night, and in no time, the area 
became shunned by all. 

Lady Samantha's fate was never 
known, the tale being spread earlier by 
the wizard that she had sold the manor 
to him and departed for other lands. 
Thus, the true depth of his depravity 
was never ascertained. 

Angered at his unplanned end and 
the group's penetration of his chamber, 
the ghost, if not already slain, will mate 
rialize from the stairway behind the 
group and attempt to magic jar a PC 
magic-user as outlined earlier. If unsuc 
cessful, it will fight, this time to the 
death. 

CReaTuRe Notes 

"Ah! I knew it was here some ..." The 
old halfling, coattails flapping nearly up 


to his head as he lost his footing upon 
the bookcase ladder, landed with a thud 
behind his desk. 

The elf leaned forward and peered 
over the desk. "You all right, Desmore?" 
she asked. 

Still clutching the leather-bound tome 
as he lay on the floor, the halfling lifted 
his powdered wig from the front of his 
face, properly replacing it upon his 
head. "Yes, quite," he managed, pushing 
his spectacles back up upon the bridge 
of his nose. "We Wigheads are a family 
used to falling from heights" 

He made it to his feet and placed the 
book on the desk before her. "In fact my 
father once made it almost to the top of 
an old pyramid in the desert" he contin 
ued. "I should preface that by saying, 
however, that he found it quite by acci 
dent when a camel he had purchased - 
which I should add was actually the 
property of a certain sheik, who was 
renowned . . ." 

"You say this deals adequately with 
the subject of ghosts, Desmore?" the elf 
broke in, thumbing through the tome. 

"What? Oh, yes. It does mention quite 
a bit about them." 

Delsenora slowly thumbed through 
the yellowed pages of the old work, 
shaking her head. "Whoever wrote this 
obviously was no adventurer, but was 
repeating tales heard from others," she 
sighed. "I see a few mistakes about spir 
its I've observed firsthand in the Grey- 
cloaks. Still, it looks fundamentally 
adequate. How much?" 

"Ah, well, for a friend such as you, 
only 10 golden crowns." 

"Fine." She reached into her purse, 
dropping a small pile of golden coins 
onto the mahogany desk. 

"If I might apologize for prying," the 
halfling said, "why are you so interested 
in ghosts? Planning on an adventure 
someplace? Might there be a chance of 
some rare books being found that you 
wouldn't want? As you know, I'm ever 
in the market for . . ." 

She tucked the book under her arm. 
"Nothing like that, Desmore," she said, 
stopping the halfling before he really 
got going. "I've an apprentice planning 


56 










to explore the haunted mansion outside 
of town, and I wanted to get her some 
detailed information about ghosts." 

"Oh. Well, if you want to know about 
ghosts, you have come to the right 
place. For instance, the very word 
ghost has always conjured up the image 
of the spirit of a departed individual. 
Yet, as is well known, there are many 
different types of spirits, ranging from 
the true ghosts to lesser cousins such as 
haunts, poltergeists, etc. 

"Now true ghosts almost always 
began as powerful humans who during 
life possessed both an evil disposition 
and a powerful will. How exactly such a 
person actually does become a ghost 
remains a mystery, but one recurrent 
factor seems to be that their passing 
from life is marked by great anger or 
hatred. 

"Whether or not this ultimately 
results in the spirit's being unable to 
rest, or whether the departed 'earns' its 
status as a result of its earthly misdeeds 
isn't really known, and perhaps both 
likelihoods are possible. All true ghosts, 
though, keep the powerful wills they 
had in life, and often they are possessed 
of a singular purpose-usually revenge 
on the living. It's said that this driving 
purpose causes the ghost, even if cha 
otic in life, to tend toward an organized 
evil to accomplish its particular goals. 

"Few things faced by adventurers are 
more frightening in appearance than 
true ghosts:' the halfling continued. 
"Such creatures resemble white-hued, 
semi-transparent humanoid shapes, 
often with distorted features revealing 
the true awfulness of the soul during 
life. In connection with this, true ghosts 
may bear spiritual chains and weights - 
which some, I might add, believe to be a 
warning by the gods to the living that 
such a fate awaits them if they follow 
the same sort of path as the wretch 
before them was foolish enough to do. 
Yet I should add some notable sages, 
such as the renowned Thomas of Cor- 
myr, who it's said was a fanatical lover 
of horses amongst other things, 
although in my own perusal of his 
works, I tend to think his love or 


equines was more or less a hobby. But it 
is true that he owned one of the finest 
stables in this part of the . . ." 

"You were talking about the appear 
ance of ghosts, Desmore," Delsenora 
prompted. 

"What? Oh, yes. Just as often, true 
ghosts may also display a gaping wound 
or a headless form, illustrating the man 
ner of their ultimate demise. 

"The visage of a ghost is made even 
more terrifying by the fact that the 
creature usually materiali z es with sur 
prise from a wall, floor, ceiling, etc., 
which may so startle those who see it 
they flee in terror from the area - with 
a few extra white hairs. 

"It's said that only those clerics who 
during their early years of training 
have received the proper instruction on 
the undead are able to stand for certain 
against the sudden horrible sight of a 
true ghost and the supernatural awe it 
inspires. And even battle-hardened 
adventurers are known to have found 
the vision so horrible that friends and 
comrades have been temporarily aban 
doned in their haste to move away from 
the area!' 

Delsenora nodded, pondering the 
halfling's words. "I guess a ghost is a 
tougher customer than I thought. Is 
there any way to tell if you're nearing 
the heart of a ghost's lair?" 

"As a matter of fact," the halfling 
answered, "the lair of a ghost is always 
near the spot at which it died, and the 
surroundings invariably betray the fact 
that the living have long since aban 
doned the area. Thus, it cannot be dis 
puted that some psychic tie binds the 
restless spirit to the vicinity of its origi 
nal demise. 

"True ghosts possess the ability to 
wander about the area without losing 
any of their powers, and so they can 
indeed be encountered by happen 
stance. Their sojourns are limited, how 
ever, to a particular level of a dungeon, 
or the grounds of a castle or manor 
they might be haunting. Naturally, 
because of their unceasing wandering 
and ability to penetrate solid spaces, a 
ghost will have perfect knowledge of 


the dungeon it inhabits." 

"I've seen spectres, and the like - and 
I know what they can do, and how they 
do it," Delsenora said. "Does a ghost 
behave any differently when it attacks 
than other spirits?" 

"Well, to some extent" the halfling 
answered. "As I mentioned, true ghosts 
have a singular drive to revenge them 
selves upon the living. The most obvi 
ous way in which they accomplish this 
is by shifting from the Ethereal Plane 
and fully materializing on the Prime 
Material Plane to make their dreaded 
touch, which draws away the life force 
of the ghost's unlucky mortal opponent, 
withering and aging him. This horrid 
attack is known to sometimes be such a 
shock to the system that a non-elf can 
die from it. 

"A more subtle means of allowing the 
ghost to accomplish its goals is through 
an attempted magic jarring of a target 
-usually one of the same profession as 
the creature in life. Should this be suc 
cessful, the creature may, for instance, 
utilize the spells of its host against its 
enemies. The new shell also permits the 
ghost egress from the area to which it is 
tied. The creature may then wander 
forth to continue its plan for revenge. 

"When a ghost is in possession of a 
body, it may speak, but the voice, which 
is that of the ghost in life, comes from 
deep inside the victim. Certainly there 
is no detectable movement of the 
tongue or jaws. 

"The hapless shell possessed by the 
creature retains its hit points. But as the 
ghost takes no steps to obtain nourish 
ment, the host weakens progressively, 
suffering the normal consequences 
from starvation and dehydration until 
the spirit is forced to abandon it. The 
creature thereafter is free to wander 
about until it finds another prospective 
host to inhabit." 

"Hmm. So a ghost may as likely seek 
to possess someone as kill him." 

"Yes, indeed. But ghosts may also pos 
sess objects to aid them in causing may 
hem. Most frequently they limit 
themselves to, for example, causing a 
chandelier to fall upon a target below, 


57 













or a bookcase to topple over upon 
someone examining it. At other times, 
the creature may even possess a weap 
on such as a crossbow or spear, causing 
it to strike out at a victim. The duration 
of such possessions is always very 
short, usually along the line of a few 
minutes. 

"Adventurers mixing it up with true 
ghosts certainly have a difficult time 
ahead of them. The creature's over 
whelming hatred of the living, and 
urgency to gain revenge, make it an 
extremely dangerous foe. Negotiation 
certainly is something for which there 
is little hope, and in almost every case, 
the choices of those encountering such 
a creature are limited to either leaving 
the area of the ghost's lair or fighting it. 
The creature's immunity to spells while 
on the Ethereal Plane places a heavy 
burden on party fighters to slay the 
creature through close melee, thereby 
placing themselves at great risk with 
respect to the monster's touch attack. A 
useful defense, however, is the protec 
tion from evil spell, which prevents the 
ghost from successfully making its hor 
rid touch upon one so protected!' 

"You earlier said something about a 
ghost dominating its dead victims. Do 
you mean to say a ghost can have other 
ghosts under its control?" 

"Not really. What I was referring to 
are lesser ghosts. They're merely rest 
less spirits whose passing on to the next 
world is prevented for a number of rea 
sons: For instance, the person may have 
died with an urgent need to pass on an 
important message to someone or 
accomplish some sort of unfinished 
task. Thus, it remains on the Prime 
Material Plane, unable to rest until the 
message is delivered or the task com 
pleted. In another case, the lesser ghost 
may, as true ghosts, be angered over its 
betrayal and murder in life, and the 
creature cannot rest until the one who 
committed the crime against it is prop 
erly punished. 

"A lesser ghost might also, through its 
own misbehavior in life, find itself 
bound to an unhappy existence 
between worlds until it finds some sort 


of way to atone for its deeds. Lastly, the 
relatively weak spirit might remain 
under the domination of a greater 
ghost, free from obeying it, but tor 
mented and unable to rest until the 
creature is destroyed. 

"Unlike true ghosts, lesser ghosts 
always resemble themselves in life, 
appearing as transparent figures, often 
dressed as they were at the time of 
death or in what they were fond of 
wearing prior to that. The visage of 
such creatures, while possibly unnerv 
ing, certainly doesn't even approach 
the horror of that belonging to a true 
ghost. 

"As true ghosts, lesser ghosts likewise 
are limited to staying near the area of 
their original demise. They may, how 
ever, wander about the general vicinity, 
although their weakness makes it diffi 
cult for them to make their presence 
known. In some rare cases, lesser 
ghosts have been known to be tied to 
particular objects - usually something 
it was fond of in life - accompanying 
the object when it is removed else 
where. 

"During their wanderings, lesser 
ghosts are entirely invisible, for it is 
only at the location where they died, or 
where their body lies, that they may 
become visible to the living. Their pres 
ence might otherwise be noted through 
a gentle wafting of air as they pass by, 
and some individuals seem able to even 
sense their presence. 

"One clue that lesser ghosts are about 
the area is through encountering cer 
tain sounds that are obviously out of 
place to their surroundings. Somehow, 
perhaps unconsciously, these creatures 
project the sounds that the spirit 
enjoyed in life. This can range from the 
sounds of children at play to the merri 
ment of balls and dances, to good- 
natured swordplay. In all cases, such 
noises will be heard coming through a 
wall or closed door - and they will 
always cease when the living enter the 
area in question, lending credence to 
the idea that such phenomena are not 
consciously created, but instead occur 
through some natural process while the 


creature's thoughts wander back to 
happier times it once knew. 

"Lesser ghosts have no real attack 
forms, other than perhaps acting in a 
threatening manner when their lair is 
penetrated," the halfling replied. "They 
may, however, possess objects for up to 
about 10 minutes, causing, for example, 
the chimes of a clock to ring, or a chan 
delier to swing oddly, or the strings of a 
musical instrument to be strummed. 
Unlike true ghosts, these creatures lack 
the strength to actually cause physical 
harm through haunting an object, and 
such phenomena are at worst 
poltergeist-like. 

"Lesser ghosts may for several min 
utes possess an individual in order to 
communicate. The host usually must 
allow physical contact to be made, 
although the creature may attempt to 
touch a target, gaining temporary pos 
session of his body if successful. The 
duration for such possession is up to 10 
minutes, after which the ghost will 
depart, leaving the host none the worse 
for the experience." 

"Hmm. They don't sound as nearly as 
nasty as their cousins." 

"No, indeed. It is also much easier to 
deal with lesser ghosts than their 
greater counterparts. If communica 
tion is established, the creature usually 
is more than willing to impart what 
may be done to lay it to rest. It other 
wise may be turned as easily as a 
shadow by clerics, and may be slain 
with silver or magical weapons." 

"You're a fountain of information 
today, Desmore," Delsenora said. "But 
tell me - why didn't you mention all 
this before I bought the book?" 

"You didn't ask," the halfling 
answered with a grin and a wink, "and 
I'd have been 10 crowns poorer." 

OXhen. Notes 

The statistics for lesser ghosts follows: 


AC 3; MV 18"; HD 3; # AT 0; SA nil; 
SD silver or magic weapon needed to 
hit, turned as shadows; AL any; XP 
100 + 10 per hit point. 


58 












ORIENTAL SPECTRES 


Terrain: Castle 

Party Levels: 45 (Average 9th) 

Gold X.P.: 20,000 tael, 500 ch'ien (12,500 

treasure X.P.: 6,300 
Monster X.P.: 

Kill 11,570 Defeat 8,680 

Retreat 2,890 

Setup 

• PCs adventuring in Kozakura have 
accepted the hospitality of Yamashita 
Obuno at his stronghold in Okane Prov 
ince. When family members and retain 
ers are mysteriously killed, Lord Obuno 
asks the PCs for their help in resolving 
the mystery. 

• A character with ties to the 
Shikken of Kozakura finds that he is not 
safe in the castle of his host, Yamashita 
Obuno. He is stalked by spectres of the 
vengeful Tanomitsu clan, the castle's 
previous owners, who were killed by 
the PC's relatives in the Hojo War. 

DIVfs BAakgnouhjb 

Tanomitsu Mitsuro was one of Hojo 
Todahiro's generals in the Hojo War. At 
the Battle of Norinoshima nine years 
ago, Todahiro lost his claim to the sho- 
gunate. During that conflict. General 
Tanomitsu and his personal retainers 
were cut off from the battle by an 
ambush. Hard pressed and unable to 
come to Todahiro's aid, Tanomitsu Mit 
suro took his retainers and fled in boats 
to the mainland. Closely pursued by the 
troops of Yamashita Ichiro, Tanomitsu 
retreated to his castle in Okane Prov 
ince to defend his family there. 

Yamashita's troops swept into the 
town of Ezuwara before Tanomitsu had 
time to prepare for their attack. The 
general and his retainers made them 
selves secure inside Ezuwara Castle, 
where Yamashita demanded his surren 
der. Mitsuro refused. 

Yamashita was scornful of the cow 
ard's desertion and had no time to con 
duct a long siege. His troops fired the 
castle with arrows and watched it burn 
to the ground, destroying all within. 


Ezuwara Castle and the surrounding 
town were later given to Yamashita 
Ichiro as a reward for his services to the 
Takenaka clan during the Hojo War. 

Ichiro's son, Obuno, is jito of Ezuwara 
estate. He has had the castle rebuilt and 
recently moved in with his family and 
retainers. In the past two weeks, one fam 
ily member and three vassals have myste 
riously vanished. Ninja are suspected, but 
the disappearances continue in spite of 
the most stringent security. 

The SpecTrzes 

Unbeknownst to the Yamashita clan, 
there is a secret escape passage in the 
stone foundation of Ezuwara Castle. 
Tanomitsu Mitsuro, his kensai daughter 
Isui, and his shukenja/ninja cousin 
Masako were fleeing through that pas 
sageway as the castle was burning over 
head. However, the trio died from 
smoke inhalation before they could 
move free of the castle. Consumed with 
hatred for the Yamashita clan, and 
unwilling to let go of their abruptly 
shortened lives, the three Tanomitsu 
haunt Ezuwara castle as spectres. 

This was a normal spectral existence 
as long as the castle was in ruins. But 
since it has been rebuilt by the Yamashi 
ta, the spectres' anger is stirred. Not 
only is their resting place disturbed, but 
it is now inhabited by their enemies. 
Mitsuro, the most powerful of the 
three, wants to destroy the Yamashita 
that inhabit "his" castle. He and his 
spectral companions are draining the 
castle residents of life one by one, con 
verting them to spectres under 
Tanomitsu control. Soon the spectres 
will be powerful enough to slay most of 
the Yamashita in Ezuwara Castle. 

The entrance to Mitsuro's escape pas 
sage is well concealed in the cellar flag 
stones. Besides fighting their forms, the 
spectres can be destroyed by perform 
ing proper clerical ceremonies on their 
remains which lie in that passageway 
(see "Ecology of the Spectre"). Tanomit 
su clan treasures are also there, 
described under "The Passageway," 
below. 


PC SeTup 

If the DM determines that one player 
character (or more) was related to the 
winning side in the Hojo War, then he 
may single that person out for attack by 
the Tanomitsu spectres as a matter of 
personal vengeance. In that case, that 
adventurer will always be the first tar 
get of spectral attacks in the course of 
this scenario. Otherwise, characters 
become involved simply at the request 
of their host, Yamashita Obuno. If PCs 
vanquish the spectres but do not find 
the Tanomitsu treasures, Obuno gives 
them a cash reward of 20,000 tael. If 
they do find the Tanomitsu treasures, 
Obuno allows them to keep what they 
find and does not reward them with 
anything else. 

The A6v>eK)TuRe 

Ezuuoaka CasTLe 

Pausing in their journeys, the player 
characters are hosted at Ezuwara Cas 
tle, a Yamashita estate under care of jito 
Yamashita Obuno. Read the following to 
the PCs: 


Ezuwara Castle stands on a hill over 
looking the coast of Okane Province. 
The town of Ezuwara stretches 
between the castle and the rocky 
harbor, home to a sizable fishing 
fleet that works the waters of the 
Inland Sea. A rustic location with a 
beautiful ocean vista, Ezuwara was 
once the favored retreat of the pow 
erful general, Tanomitsu Mitsuro. 
The castle was destroyed at the close 
of the Hojo War, but has since been 
rebuilt by Yamashita Obuno, jito of 
the estate. 

Lord Obuno, your host, is a 
solemn-faced samurai in his mid-30s. 
He is lame in one leg and moves awk 
wardly on foot, but it is common 
knowledge that Obuno is a masterful 
rider and as skilled a fighter as any 
on horseback. He makes you wel 
come in his stronghold. 


59 





Yamashita Obuno, seventh- 
level samurai: AC 2; MV 9"; HD 7; 
hp 56; # AT 1; Dmg ldlO +1, AL LG; 
XP 448. 

Obuno has a katana +1 and a do- 
maru +2. 


Yamashita Obuno lives at Ezuwara 
Castle with his wife Suke and infant 
daughter, and his 15-year-old cousin 
Maatsune, fostered to Obuno's house 
hold to learn samurai training. 

In the last two weeks, Obuno's cousin, 
his guard captain, a cook, and the castle 
steward have been murdered. He is dis 
turbed and worried about these deaths, 
but does not yet share this concern 
with his guests. Attentive PCs should be 
able to discern that something is amiss 
at the castle. Servants look furtively 
about as if on the watch for something, 
and Obuno's bushi are grimly serious. 
The guard is doubled on the castle gate 
and sentry posts. 

If PCs ask direct questions about 
what is wrong they'll receive evasive 
answers. In his own time, at the eve 
ning meal, Obuno broaches the subject 
and asks for the PCs' help. Lord 
Yamashita explains that his cousin, 
Maatsune, was in the stables, the guard 
captain in his office, the cook and the 
steward in the storage cellars when 
they died without a mark on them. 
Ninja are suspected, but the last death, 
that of the cook, took place in spite of 
increased security. There have been no 
clues about what happened or why. 
Anything the adventurers can to to 
help will be appreciated. 

S&bftizy's WaLk 

That night, after dinner, the alarm is 
sounded in the courtyard. As people 
gather to see what is wrong, an odd 
sight greets their eyes. 

On the battlements, faintly visible in 
the light of the wind-blown torches, a 
ghostly figure walks the ramparts. The 
spirit is transparent, but the cut of its 
robes and the hat it wears are unmis 
takably those of the Tanomitsu clan - 


the former occupants of Ezuwara Cas 
tle. The spirit moves without stepping 
on the wooden walkway, and draws 
closer to a lone bushi, frozen with fear 
or surprise in a watchtower corner. 

Other foot soldiers advance along the 
ramparts, and the one in the lead 
slashes at the spirit's back with his hal 
berd. The blade passes harmlessly 
through its body - but not unnoticed. 
The figure turns on the hapless bushi, 
steps forward through the threatening 
halberd, and strikes the man where he 
stands. With a cry, the bushi collapses, 
tumbling off the walkway to the 
ground below. Ignoring the other 
bushi, whose advance has slowed, the 
spirit grapples with the man it had cor 
nered. He, too, cries out and collapses 
to the walkway - but the spirit main 
tains its grip. In a moment, a transpar 
ent ghost-like form rises from the 
bushi's body and follows the first spirit 
down the battlement stairs and into the 
courtyard. 


Tanomitsu Mitsuro (spectre): 

AC 2; MV 15"/30"; HD 7 + 3; hp 45; # 
AT 1; Dmg ld8; SA drains 2 levels per 
touch, slain victim becomes half 
strength spectre under spectre's 
control; SD immune to sleep, charm, 
hold, cold-based spells, paralyzation 
or poison, + 1 or better weapons to 
hit; AL LE; XP 2,100. 


A spectre is powerless in daylight, 
and can be destroyed if a raise dead 
spell is cast on it (saving throw vs. magic 
allowed). Holy water inflicts 2d4 hp 
damage. 

Bushi spectre (1): AC 6; MV 12"/ 

24"; HD 3 + 3; hp 21; # AT 1; Dmg 
ld4; SA as above; SD as above; AL 

LE; XP 930. 


The spectre of Mitsuro has just 
gained another recruit for his force of 
spectres. When the spectres reach the 
courtyard, they are intent only on 
entering the castle and joining the other 
spirits beneath the cellar. They head 


directly for the castle wall and vanish 
through it. The attacks of bushi or play 
er characters are ignored unless the 
spectres are struck with magical weap 
ons. In that case, Mitsuro looks careful 
ly at the PCs fighting with magical 
weapons, and flies away with his com 
panion, moving at maximum speed. He 
and the other spectres will engage PCs 
later, forewarned about the dangerous 
weapons. 

A speak with dead spell is not likely to 
get any helpful answers out of the body 
of the bushi who died on the ramparts. 
In life he knew nothing about the spec 
tres. 

iMfoRmaDoK) GaTbeRiNjg 

The man who fell to the ground is seri 
ously injured and reduced to the level 
of a first-level bushi, although this drop 
in level is not yet evident. He reports 
that the spirit's touch was chilling and 
cold. By its clothes, the bushi recog 
nized the undead figure as the spirit of 
a Tanomitsu man in his 50s, but does 
not know who he might be. 

In regards to the ghostly clothing 
worn by the first spirit, it is common 
knowledge that many Tanomitsu died 
in the flaming ruins of Ezuwara Castle. 
The place was so devastated that the 
dead could not be specifically identi 
fied. If PCs inquire more closely into the 
destruction of the castle, locals can tell 
them the information given under 
"DM's Background." If the correct ques 
tions are asked, PCs might also be told 
that Lord Mitsuro had Tanomitsu clan 
heirlooms with him when he entered 
Ezuwara Castle. These items were the 
Harmony Sword, a magical blade capa 
ble of detecting harmony and magic, 
and an enchanted war fan which 
shielded him from missiles. It is com 
mon opinion that the sword and fan 
could not have survived the ruin of the 
castle. 

Divination and spells such as com 
mune with lesser spirit can pinpoint the 
identities of the spectres which haunt 
the castle, and might reveal something 
of their plans (i.e., to destroy the 


60 
















Yamashita) if the right questions are 
asked. However, the spectres will not 
talk about their earthly remains nor 
mention their location unless forced to 
do so by the questioner. Even then, 
answers are as evasive as possible. 

The shukenja of Ezuwara shrine is 
Abutsu, an elderly man of sixth level. If 
the party lacks a cleric or needs the 
assistance he can offer, Abutsu can help 
the characters. 


Abutsu (sixth-level shukenja): 

AC 8; MV 9"; hp 23; # AT 1; Drng ld8 
(tetsubo); AL LG; XP 288. 

Spells: cure light wounds, know 
history, trance, weapon bless, com 
mune with lesser spirit, protection 
from spirits, invisibility to spirits. 


VlsiTaDoK) The Night 

When the PCs retire for the night, one 
or more of them are visited by the spec 
tre of Tanomitsu Mitsuro. 

The spectre moves through the walls 
of the castle, thus avoiding guards, and 
enters the room or rooms occupied by 
PCs. If a charm of protection from spir 
its or similar spell has been installed 
where the PCs are, it is useless against 
Mitsuro, since the spectre already occu 
pies the castle and can enter its individ 
ual rooms without difficulty. 

If PCs are in more than one room, 


Mitsuro approaches the character stay 
ing in the most luxurious and well- 
appointed chamber first. It is likely that 
Yamashita Obuno has the party's leader 
or a senior samurai PC quartered in 
such a room, and Mitsuro naturally 
assumes that this person is the leader of 
the group of visitors. Read the follow 
ing to the character(s) so visited: 


A chill draft flows into your room, 
and the lamplight wavers on the rice- 
paper wall. A transparent figure 
passes through the wall and stands 
motionless at the end of your futon. 
The spirit looks down upon you. It is 
clearly an older man, dressed in 
samurai armor and ghostly robes 
bearing the mark of the Tanomitsu 
clan. Its faint voice rasps from 
beyond the grave. "What is your lin 
eage?" the spirit demands to know. 


If Mitsuro is attacked at this point, he 
flees by sinking through the floor of the 
room, then sends the lesser spectres to 
attack the PCs. Two rounds later, one 
spectre arrives per PC in the room, up 
to a maximum of five half-strength 
spectres. They enter by rising up 
through the floor. 


Half-strength spectres (5 max): 

AC 6; MV 12"/24"; HD 3 + 3; HP 
25, 21, 19, 16, 14; Drng ld4; SA 

as given above; SD as given above; 
AL LE; XP 161 each. 


If half the number of attacking spec 
tres is destroyed (round down), the 
remaining undead retreat to the cellar 
and regroup. 

PCs slain by these undead become 
half-strength spectres also under the 
control of Tanomitsu Mitsuro. PC spec 
tres have the same statistics as for the 
half-strength spectres given above. 
Such undead return to the cellar to 
await further orders from Mitsuro. 

If he is not attacked, Mitsuro is intent 
on finding out what clans to which the 
PC is related or connected. If the spec 
tre can see the insignia of an enemy 
clan on the PC's clothes or equipment, 
Mitsuro asks specifically about that 
relationship. The clans Mitsuro con 
siders enemies are the Takenaka, 
Yamashita, Sato, Otomo, and any others 
the DM determines opposed the 
Tanomitsu and Hojo Todahiro in the 
Hojo War. 

If Mitsuro finds that the PC is firmly 
tied to an enemy house, the spectre tar 
gets that character as his next victim. If 
the adventurer refuses to discuss his 
heritage, Mitsuro assumes the charac- 


61 



















ter is an enemy, and likewise marks him 
as his next victim. In either case, Mit- 
suro departs to question other PCs. The 
spectre avoids answering any questions 
the PC may ask of it. If the spectre can 
not gain the cooperation of any of the 
party members, he sends lesser spec 
tres to attack them as explained above, 
starting with characters who insulted 
him or acted rudely. 

VehjgeAhJ ce 

If the PC reveals his heritage and is not 
a confirmed enemy of the Tanomitsu 
clan, Mitsuro tries to recruit his aid. 
The spectre says, "The Yamashita mur 
dered us in dishonor. We must have 
vengeance. Burn the castle down, 
tonight!" 

If PCs argue with this, but seem sym 
pathetic to his hatred, Mitsuro will set 
tle instead for the head of Yamashita 
Obuno. This is not the limit of the 
revenge desired by the spectres, but it 
does give them something tangible they 
otherwise could not gain for them 
selves. 

If PCs agree (at least verbally) to do 
this grisly task for Mitsuro, the spectre 
pushes them for a commitment and ten 
tative plans about when and how it will 
be done. His first step in doing so is ask 
ing the PC to swear an oath or make a 
vow to fulfill this task. Mitsuro bargains 
as best he can to get the PC to do this. If 
a character agrees, the DM must decide 
what impact this has on the PC's align 
ment and honor. Mitsuro offers a 
reward to the character in exchange 
for his help, but refuses to define what 
it will be. Actually, the spectre plans to 
slay the PC who aids him and allow that 
character to serve him, Mitsuro, as his 
reward. 

The Tanomitsu spectre agrees to a 
waiting period of no longer than 24 
hours, then retires to wait for this mis 
sion to be accomplished. The spectre 
cannot be tricked into saying where he 
wants the head delivered, although he 
can be forced to say "the cellar" if an 
appropriate spell is cast on him. Nor 
mally, the spectre will tell the PCs that 


information only after they have 
Obuno's head. 

On) The Right TracIc 

The morning after this visitation, it 
becomes known that the injured retain 
er has been reduced to the skill level of 
a first-level bushi, although he was for 
merly a third-level fighter. This should 
help any knowledgeable shukenja, 
sohei, or monk to determine the nature 
of the spirit being faced. If the charac 
ters fail to figure this out on their own, 
the DM may allow them to make an 
Intelligence check. Successful ones 
"remember" about spectres and deduce 
what they must be confronting. 

Now that the spectres are letting 
themselves be seen openly, it is possible 
to learn from Yamashita vassals exactly 
where the spirits are being sighted on 
the castle grounds. If the party asks 
around the castle or follows the spec 
tres for any distance, it is clear that the 
spirits are moving back and forth 
between the kitchen cellar and the rest 
of the castle. The staff is unable to think 
of any particular reason why the spec 
tres should favor the cellar area. If PCs 
investigate the cellar now, go to "In the 
Cellar;' below. 

The Hapless HaN)dma)deN) 

Women (except for PC characters) dine 
separately from men at meal times, tak 
ing their food in the women's quarters 
in the north wing of the castle. At the 
first meal after dark, the adventurers 
are asked to dine with Lord Obuno. The 
meal is interrupted halfway through. 


You are disturbed by distant shrieks 
echoing through the castle halls. 
Lord Obuno looks up, riveting his 
guards with a questioning glance. In 
the next moment, you hear the slap 
of sandaled feet running down the 
cedar passageways, A guard dashes 
into the hall, and hurriedly kowtows 
to Lord Obuno. 

"So sorry. Lord .. ." he gasps, "... 


your wife's handmaiden, taken by a 
spirit as she served dinner . . ." Obuno 
leaps to his feet before the bushi can 
finish. He motions you to join him, 
and the guard's shouted words fol 
low as you run down the hall: 

"Her spirit follows the other down 
the East Hall!" 


Because of his lame leg, Obuno is 
quickly outpaced by the PCs. He shouts 
to the party to go ahead and pursue the 
spirits, and he will see to his wife. Four 
guards accompany Obuno to the wom 
en's quarters. Two bushi guards run 
with the adventurers, to give them 
assistance and lead the way to the East 
Hall. 


Bushi (second level) (2): AC 7; 

MV 12"; HD 2; hp 12; # AT 1; Dmg 
ld6 (spear); SA nil; SD nil; AL LN; XP 
44 each. 


The EasT HaLL 

In the rush of the moment, the party's 
bushi guides are intent only on leading 
them to the East Hall, which connects 
the kitchens with the north wing of the 
castle. By going this way, the party 
approaches the spectres from the rear, 
and must run in order to catch up and 
close with them. 

If a character thinks to ask, the 
guards can take them through corri 
dors that bring the party into the East 
Hall ahead of the spectres. In that way, 
if the party wants to fight or confront 
the spirits, they have a better chance of 
doing so. 

Characters see two transparent 
forms moving down the hall. Both are 
women. The one in the rear appears 
young; the one in the lead wears robes 
that bear the Tanomitsu symbol, If 
characters intercept the spectres from 
the front, they can see that the leading 
spirit is clothed in partial armor (of spir 
it form) and carries a ghostly naginata. 
This spectre is Tanomitsu Isui, the ken- 
sai daughter of Mitsuro. With her is 


62 











Ninoye, a handmaiden who interposed 
herself between Lord Obuno's wife 
Suke and the spectre. 


Tanomitsu Isui (spectre): hp 37; 

XP 2020. All other statistics as for 
full-strength spectre given above. 

Isui fights with her spirit-form nagi 
nata, but damage is the same as if it 
were a regular spectre attack. 


Handmaiden spectre (1): hp 11; 

XP 880. All other statistics as for the 

half-strength spectres given above. 

The spectres fight the PCs if they are 
attacked or prevented from continuing 
down the East Hall. If they are pursued 
into the kitchens at the end of the hall, 
Isui decides they have been followed 
far enough, and the pair turns about 
and attacks the adventurers. They fight 
until the PCs retreat or are slain. If 
Ninoye is killed and Isui loses half her 
hit points, she drops into the floor and 
vanishes, retreating in this undetect 
able way to the cellar. If Isui is killed, 
Ninoye flees to a random place in the 
castle, moving as far away from the 
characters as quickly as possible. 

If Ninoye is captured or somehow 
compelled to talk, she can tell nothing 
of the Tanomitsu plans. If the same hap 
pens to Isui, she volunteers nothing and 
evades questions in every way possible. 
If Isui is captured or bespelled while 
Ninoye is still at large, Isui sends the 
handmaiden to fetch the other spec 
tres. This ploy, if successful, brings all 
Zanomitsu undead and any lesser spec 
tres under their control to the scene 
within ld4 rounds. The spectres fight 
the PCs to free Isui or avenge her 
'death' if she has been slain. PCs killed 
by these undead become lesser spec 
tres under the spectres' control with 
statistics as given above. 

Bk scoe Sacrifice 

In the women's quarters in the north 
wing, the story of Ninoye's sacrifice 
soon comes out. As the women were 


having dinner, the female undead spirit 
came to them, cursed Lady Suke, and 
stepped toward her, hand outstretched. 
Suke scrambled back, pursued by the 
spectre, and her handmaiden, Ninoye, 
stepped between the spirit and her mis 
tress. 

The spectre laughed when it had slain 
Ninoye, then turned to Suke and said, 
"I'll be back for you later!' As in the 
courtyard last night, the guards' weap 
ons proved useless against the undead 
creature, who left with the spirit of 
Ninoye. The handmaiden's body now 
lies in the north wing. 

As with the bushi from the battle 
ments, a speak with dead spell cast on 
Ninoye is not likely to provide useful 
answers. In life, the handmaiden did 
not know anything about the spectres. 
However, if characters are stumped 
and need help dealing with this prob 
lem, the DM may allow that Ninoye's 
soul has learned some helpful informa 
tion since her death, and so can 
respond to a cleric's questions. 

Lord Obuno is willing to arrange to 
have Ninoye restored to life, in thanks 
for her sacrifice in saving Suke's life. If a 
player character is capable of doing so, 
Obuno offers an appropriate reward 
(DM's discretion) to accomplish this. If 
Ninoye is brought back to life, her spec 
tre is destroyed in the process as it is 
reabsorbed into her soul (see "Ecology 
of the Spectre"). 

Woizk'uog To GeT a Head 

Mitsuro impatiently awaits results from 
any character who has agreed to secure 
Obuno's head for him - or even better, 
to burn down Ezuwara Castle. This is 
easier said than done, if the PCs are 
serious about doing so. Adventurers 
are accompanied by at least two bushi 
guide/escorts whenever they wander 
about Ezuwara Castle. Lord Obuno is 
accompanied by two second-level 
samurai and five first-level bushi at all 
times. These retainers also guard him 
and his wife when they sleep. 


63 















Samurai (second level) (2): AC 5; 

MV 12"; HD 2; hp 18,15; # AT 1; Dmg 
ldlO; AL LG; XP 52 each. 

Bushi (first level) (5): AC 7; MV 
12"; HD 1; hp 6 each; # AT 1; Dmg 
ld6; AL LN; XP 16 each. 


While he is waiting for results, Mit 
suro remains in the cellar (a central 
contact point for all the undead) and 
sends Masako, his shukenja/ninja 
retainer, to spy on the aforementioned 
PCs and keep an eye on what they are 
doing. As long as it is in a place away 
from sunlight, Masako lurks nearby, 
hidden in the shadows but within sight 
and earshot of the adventurers. 


Masako (spectre): hp 32; XP 1970; 
all other statistics as given above for 
1 full-strength spectre. 

Although he takes care in his hiding 
and can fade back into stone or walls at 
a instant's notice, attentive characters 
may notice the chill that announces the 
spectre's nearness. Spells or magical 
devices may also reveal his presence. If 
he is not attacked, Masako simply 
smiles at his discoverers, then fades out 
of sight - only to return in another 
place and continue his spying. Having 
been a ninja in real life, Masako is good 
at picking places from which to spy 
undetected. He may be just behind a 
rice-paper door, for instance, or blend 
right into a wooden wall in the same 
room with the characters. 

If Masako is attacked by PCs, he fights 
with his first opponent until that char 
acter is slain or Masako loses half his hit 
points. Then the spectre retreats to the 
cellar to confer with Mitsuro. 

Mitsuro is content to let Masako con 
tinue spying until the waiting time is up 
and Obuno's head is supposed to be 
delivered. Mitsuro then meets the PC to 
tell him to bring the head to the cellar. If 
by some chance Yamashita's head is 
actually delivered or the castle burned, 
Mitsuro attempts to slay the PC who 
helped him (so he can serve as a spec 
tre), then all spectres retire for a time to 


gloat over their coup. 

If there is no head when the appoint 
ed time arrives, or if Masako's spying 
has revealed treachery, Mitsuro 
becomes enraged. He orders all spec 
tres to attack the "foresworn dogs' 
pawn adventurers." The attack occurs 
en masse as soon as the undead can 
locate the PCs within the castle. Lesser 
spectres fight until they are destroyed, 
but the three greater spectres retreat 
to the cellar only when each is reduced 
to 14 of its original hit points. 

Ik> The C&IXajz 

If PCs are not drawn to investigate the 
cellar more closely, the spectres pro 
ceed with their plan to eliminate the 
PCs (who pose a threat to them), then 
Obuno's family, Obuno himself, and his 
retainers. This plan can only be stopped 
by destroying the three Tanomitsu 
spectres, or by dealing with their earth 
ly remains. 

The first time characters look around 
the cellar they are unhindered by the 
spectres, who do not wish to draw too 
much attention to this location. The cel 
lar is lined with quarried stone, and is 
part of the stone foundation of the cas 
tle. Below the kitchen area is a well and 
a storage cistern for rainwater. 

If the characters return to the cellar 
and search for the secret passage or its 
trapdoor entrance, they are bothered 
by the spectres. The undead first attack 
one at a time, starting with the weakest 
spectre available. After all, Mitsuro 
doesn't want to clue the party that 
there is anything especially valuable 
here to protect. 

If PCs do not run away, or if they slay 
or turn at least two spectres, Mitsuro 
sends the rest of the half-strength spec 
tres to fight the PCs all at once. Adven 
turers may notice that the undead 
materialize each time over the same 
spot in the cellar floor. That is because 
the remains of the Tanomitsu are in the 
hidden underground passageway at 
that place, and the spectres tend to col 
lect there when they are not elsewhere 
in the castle. PC investigation of this 


spot provokes the same spectral attacks 
as detailed above. 

The spectres have the objective of 
keeping the PCs away from the secret 
passageway and out of the cellar. If 
their fight with the humans escalates as 
outlined above, the three Tanomitsu 
spectres join the fray, if it has become a 
battle and their side is losing. By that 
time, it is pointless to pretend the cellar 
is unimportant, and Mitsuro sets half 
strength spectres to guard against any 
one entering the cellar. 

If spectral forces become depleted or 
turned, and if time allows, some of the 
Tanomitsu go through the castle in 
search of victims they can easily turn 
into half-strength spectres. Each full- 
strength spectre returns to the fight 
with one new lesser spectre in tow. 

The SectzeT Passagecuay 

A large flagstone behind and beneath 
the kitchen stairs is not mortared into 
place. It is built on carefully balanced 
pivots, and swings easily when weight 
is put on one end. The flagstone can be 
barred in place from below, as it is now, 
left that way when the Tanomitsu made 
their escape down this passage. It is also 
secured with a wizard luck spell which 
was keyed to Tanomitsu Mitsuro's voice 
and password. The flagstone trapdoor 
is so masterfully crafted that there is 
nothing there to distinguish it from any 
other flagstone or rock that paves the 
cellar floor. 

A spectre may be forced to point out 
the location of this trapdoor, but other 
wise it can be found only with divina 
tion spells, a spell of true seeing, or a 
device that duplicates such effects. The 
flagstone door can only be opened with 
a knock spell, or smashed open with a 
sledgehammer. Breaking the flagstone 
takes one turn of work. 

At the flagstone entrance is a 20' long 
ladder, descending to the 10' square 
passageway of stone. The passage runs 
from below the kitchen, descends 
beneath the stone foundation to an 
underground tunnel excavated in dirt, 
and finally leads out to a rocky cavern 


64 













at one end of Ezuwara harbor, easily 
within sight of the castle, but some dis 
tance from it. 

If characters decide to investigate the 
spot where spectres keep appearing, 
any spell which lets PCs examine a 
space underground will tell them 
much. X-ray vision, passwall, dimension 
door, and other spells can let them look 
into or enter the passageway below. At 
that spot they will see the remains of 
the three Tanomitsu and the treasures 
they carried. If PCs do not have the aid 
of magic or the use of the hidden flag 
stone entrance, it takes hours of exca 
vation through stone to get into the 
hidden passageway. 

The LasT STawcb 

If PCs get into the secret passageway 
without having to battle the entire spec 
tral force, they will certainly have to do 
so before they can reach the earthly 
remains of the Tanomitsu spectres. 
Unless the spectres have been turned 
or are otherwise powerless to act, the 
final all-out conflict takes place in the 
secret passageway in the castle founda 
tion. Spectres fade through stone to 
attack characters from the rear, and 
even rise up unexpectedly in their 
midst. The spectres fight until all PCs 
are defeated or at least chased out of 
the cellar. The spectres then pursue 
them through the castle until the char 
acters are dead or flee the area. 

The TawomlTsu 

Victorious PCs who explore the passage 
come upon the remains of the three 
Tanomitsu. They died when they were 
overcome by smoke which had gotten 
sucked into the passage's hidden stone 
work vents. Their clothes and armor 
are as they have appeared on their 
spectral forms. 

Tanomitsu Mitsuro bears a matched 
katana and wakizashi. The wakizashi is 
a +3 weapon, and the +3 katana is the 
heirloom blade called the Harmony 
Sword. The sword has an intelligence 
of 14, has semi-empathy, and can detect 


harmony and magic within 1". At Mit- 
suro's waist hangs his war fan of shield 
ing, which functions as a brooch of 
shielding. 

The naginata carried by Xmomitsu 
Isui is a weapon of quality. She also car 
ries a potion of gaseous form. Masako 
has on his person a potion of mist 
dragon control, a scroll of protection 
from hengeyokai, and an ordinary 
kawanaga. A small wheeled handcart 
lies near him. Spilled from it are two 
chests, one containing 20,000 tael, the 
other 50 gems worth 10 ch'ien each. 

Appropriate clerical ceremonies done 
with the Tanomitsu remains will elimi 
nate their spectres. (See "Ecology of the 
Spectre.") If by chance the spectres 
should return before these ceremonies 
can be performed, and PCs have made 
off with Tanomitsu belongings, the 
spectres will pursue and attack the PCs, 
fighting to the "death." 

The Ecology of the 
Spectre 

Oshin-san, the venerable recluse from 
the holy mountain Ichiyama, bowed to 
the imperial councilors who had gath 
ered to hear her speak. Sitting down on 
the fine cushions provided, her hand 
absently stroked the rich embroidery 
that covered the silk. "Much like I used 
to have," she mused, her mind wander 
ing. 

Attentive faces studied her wrinkled 
one. She pushed a wisp of gray hair out 
of her eyes, and began. 

"You wish to know about spectres. I 
have gained some insight into their 
ways, it is true. A result of long hours of 
meditation and prayer." She paused, 
and wet her lips from the cup of tea 
that had been placed by her side. "I 
have even confronted two spectres at 
once, and dealt with them without 
assistance from anyone." 

A respectful murmur ran through 
the room. When it died down, Oshin 
continued. "Spectres are Evil things, 
clinging to unlife because of their con 
suming hatred for life itself. 


"Because of this hatred, spectres con 
tain more of the negative energy which 
animates undead than most of their 
kind. They are more powerful and 
harder to destroy. And they are not 
content simply to hate. More intelligent 
than most undead, they act on their ill- 
will for the living, sometimes planning 
ways to destroy life. They can be wily 
foes!' 

Heads nodded in agreement. "But I 
get ahead of myself. First, to review the 
common knowledge about spectres: 

"They prefer to haunt desolate and 
uninhabited places, for they would 
rather avoid life even while harboring 
their hatred for it. They hate sunlight, 
for though it does not physically hurt 
them, the positive energy embodied in 
it makes them powerless. 

"A spectre's touch is chill, for the neg 
ative energy which gives it form drains 
energy and life from whatever the 
undead creature touches. Any human 
drained completely of life energy by a 
spectre becomes a half-strength spectre 
under its control. 

"But I understand you are mostly con 
cerned with how to fight spectres?" she 
addressed her listeners. 

Voices murmured in the affirmative. 

"Well, then . . ." Oshin considered for a 
moment. "Spectres are harmed by holy 
water or magical weapons because they 
unbind the negative energy which gives 
a spectre its form. These undead are 
immune to sleep, charm, hold, or cold- 
based spells. Nor does poison or paraly 
sis harm a spectre, since it does not 
have enough of a physical form to feel 
those effects. A raise dead spell cast on 
one destroys it completely. 

"Now, I have discovered some other 
things through meditation that may 
prove instructive to you." She smiled 
slightly at her listeners, the picture of 
the beneficent recluse. "Spectres can be 
slain completely if they are attacked 
and fought on the Negative Energy 
Plane. They are found on no other 
planes, by the way, than the Prime 
Material and the Negative Energy 
Planes. 

"It is not widely known that a spectre 


65 
















is bound to the place where it met its 
death. It cannot leave that area, so you 
need not fear its pursuit over a very 
great distance./ 

Oshin nodded sagely, accepted her pay 
ment, and was relieved when the journey 
back to Ichiyama was complete. 


It was only a matter of time before 
the spectre came to visit Oshin. Every 
few months it stopped by to report on 
the progress of its plans and to find out 
what it could about worldly events 
from the old woman. 

This time it was startled and angered 
to learn of her lecture at the capital. 

"What do you mean, you told them all 
about us?" rasped the disembodied 
voice of Tanomitsu Mitsuro. The spec 
tre loomed threateningly over Oshin - 
who glowered at the transparent figure 
in return. 

"No need to exercise your foul temper 
on me!" she snapped. "I helped your 
cause, Mitsuro, and you owe me your 
thanks!' 

The spectre paused. "Helped me? 
How?" 

"What I mean is this: I told them a pack 
of lies, and they believed every word of it! 
Well, the common information I had to 
tell the truth about. About holy water, 
and your feelings toward life - things 
like that. But then,,, she smiled conspira- 
torily, "I told them what I'd learned in 
meditation. Meditation!" Oshin laughed. 

The spectre didn't smile. "What sort 
of things?" 

"For instance, I told them you exist on 
the Negative Energy Plane, and can be 
killed there. They believed that! They 
don't realize that just because you con 
sist of negative energy, you don't have 
to be on the Negative Energy Plane. The 
fools don't even know it's impossible for 
anything to exist there. 

"They also believed me when I said 
the only other plane spectres are found 
on is the Prime Material. Your jaunts to 
the Negative Quasi-Planes should 
remain a secret for some time, I should 
think." 


Mitsuro raised a spectral eyebrow. 
"Not bad." 

"It gets better. I didn't mention a word 
about physical remains, and they didn't 
ask. Not even the clerics there realized 
that resurrection, raise, or reincarna 
tion cast on a spectre's physical remains 
will destroy the spectre because it is 
reabsorbed into the returning soul - 
even if the revival itself fails. That's why 
raise dead cast on your spectral form 
works - it forces you to go search for 
your body, and dissipates your negative 
energy in the process!" 

"I said you are tied to the place you 
died, and they bought that, too. It 
should take them some time to realize 
that spectres are powerful enough and 
intelligent enough to go anywhere they 
choose - even though you stay in one 
place out of habit. It'll be some time 
before before they realize only one 
spectre is creating these lesser spectres 
around the country.,' 

Oshin clapped her hands in amuse 
ment. "Oh! And the half-strength spec 
tres! The imperial councilors are 
content now, certain that a half 
strength spectre can only create a spec 
tre half as strong as itself - that is, a 
quarter-strength spectre. They think 
they need only worry about weaker 
and weaker spectres! Fools! I didn't tell 
them that the life-draining process 
leaves so much negative energy in its 
wake that half-strength is as weak as a 
spectre can be. Otherwise it just isn't a 
spectre anymore, is it, Mitsuro?" 

The spectre regarded Oshin in grudg 
ing amazement. 

Creature Notes 

1. A spectre's touch does ld8 points 
of damage, and drains 2 levels of life 
energy. Any human victim completely 
drained of life becomes a half-strength 
spectre under command of the one that 
slew it. Half-strength spectres have 
these statistics: AC 6; MV 12"/24" ; HD 
3 + 3; # AT 1; Dmg ld4; AL LE; SA, SD as 
regular spectre. 

2. When a person is drained of life 
by a spectre, his body does not vanish 


into thin air. Rather, the corpse 
remains, the soul leaves, and the nega 
tive part of the being that is jealous and 
hateful of life takes form as a spectre. 
Only humans can become spectres. 
Other races drained of life by a spectre 
simply die. 

This can also occur spontaneously 
when an evil or hateful NPC of Lawful 
Evil alignment dies. If that NPC has suffi 
cient motivation (in the DM's judgment), 
he may return to haunt the living as an 
undead spectre. The NPC should make a 
saving throw vs. death magic. If success 
ful, he becomes a spectre. 

3. If the clerical ceremony eternal 
rest is cast on a spectre's physical 
remains, that spectre is destroyed. No 
such ceremony spell is currently availa 
ble to Oriental Adventures characters, 
but DMs may wish to make similar cere 
mony spells available to shukenja and 
sohei characters. 

4. In a case where the spectre's phys 
ical remains have been destroyed 
through accident or intent (such as cre 
mation), a spectre can only be 
destroyed by slaying the undead crea 
ture, or casting raise dead on its spec 
tral form. 

5. A spectre is the embodiment of neg 
ative energy. Its form is transparent and 
can move through material objects with 
out difficulty. It is affected by gravity only 
in a limited way, and can appear to float, 
fly, and rise or sink through ceilings and 
floors. It retains these movement abilities 
even when exposed to sunlight. Unlike a 
ghost, however, a spectre cannot fade 
completely from sight, since it is not usu 
ally capable of phasing out of the Prime 
Material Plane. 

6. Some spectres are drawn to the 
Negative Quasi-Planes because of the con 
centration of negative energy found 
there. The spectres capable of going to 
that plane are generally those whose 
earthly remains have been destroyed and 
who have no overriding personal reason 
to remain on the Prime Material Plane. 
Spectres are not normally planar trav 
elers, and once they reach the Negative 
Quasi-Planes they usually stay there. 


66 









THE DREAD LAIR OF ALOKKAIR 


Monster: Lich 
Terrain: Cave 

Party Levels: 60 (Average 10th) 

Monster X.P.: 

Kill: 8,780 Defeat: 6,585 

Retreat: 2,195 

SeTup 

• In the woods north and east of the 
settled area of Shadowdale lies Fox 
Ridge - an edge of broken, overgrown 
rock riddled with caves and fissures, 
once home (ere local farmers went 
hunting) to many foxes. Local rumor 
says that one of the largest caves in the 
ridge is haunted. 

• An adventurer once told a tavern 
full of festival-goers in Hillsfar of a cave 
in Shadowdale, "somewhere along the 
Fox Ridge"' that led to underground 
chambers and passages where "flying 
horrors" lurked, ending in a great open 
cavern where countless rocks danced 
and crashed together in endless, whirl 
ing motion. 

• "Great magic lies beyond the Grind 
ing Gulf"' says a passage in The Lore of 
Hlontar, an old history of the lost realm 
of Hlontar which lay along the River 
Tesh at the western end of the Moonsea 
600 to 800 years ago. The Grinding Gulf 
is said to be "underground, behind a 
cave in the elven woods near the river 
Ashaba" - Shadowdale fits this descrip 
tion. The party learns this and the news 
from Hillsfar (above) from a merchant 
encountered while traveling. 

fox Ridge 

In deep woods east of Shadowdale's 
northerly farms lies Fox Ridge, a bro 
ken, often overgrown ridge of weath 
ered and cracked limestone. The cracks 
and small caves within it are many, and 
are home to many normal bats, snakes, 
spiders, centipedes, and groundhogs. 
Porcupines sometimes shelter in them 
in wet weather, and a faint odor betrays 
occasional use by skunks. One cave (key 
No. 1) is much larger than the rest. 


Key To The Dob's La)r 

1. This cave is a natural cavity in the 
limestone, widened over the years by 
winter ice. It is dark and smells of earth. 
Dirt, stone rubble, and pools of seepage 
water cover its stone floor in places, 
and its ceiling is a jumble of stone, 
earth, and tree roots. Among the latter 
rest six stirges who will flutter to the 
attack when their lair is invaded. 


Stirges (6): AC 8; MV 3"/18"; HD 
1+1 but attack as 4HD monsters; hp 
8, 7, 7, 6, 6; # AT 1; Dmg ld3 (probos 
cis) plus ld4 hp per round (blood 
drain) to maximum 12; XP 42 each. 


On the floor of the cave is carved a 
curious rune, in the shape of a stemless 
three-leafed clover (three joined loops), 
in front of a stone door. The door has a 
rusted-out metal keyhole and crum 
bling pull-rings. It is wizard-locked by 
Alokkair, at 20th level, and has no key. 
In front of the door gleams a litter of six 
gold pieces - bait placed by the lich. 

On one side of the cavern a crack has 
been widened by digging into a narrow, 
twisting tunnel from which a faint 
charnel smell emanates. Much earth 
and rock rubble has been thrown out of 
this passage, and trampled by many 
bare, apparently human feet. Any loud 
noises will bring an attack from No. 2 
along this passage. 

2. The uneven-floored, cobwebbed 
tunnel and the door both lead to this 
large chamber cut out of solid rock, 
with a trampled, sandy earthen floor. 
Twenty plain stone coffins, hollowed- 
out granite blocks with lids, rest here in 
two rows of 10. They have been rudely 
torn open, and the bodies within 
devoured; cracked and gnawed bones 
litter the ground. Four of the coffins are 
empty; from them four ghouls rose 
long ago. The ghouls will attack anyone 
entering their lair. They are very hun 
gry- 


Ghouls (4): AC 6; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 
16,15,14,13; # AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ 
ld6 (claw/claw/bite); SA touch 
causes paralyzation for 2d6 rounds 
to all but elves, save to avoid; SD 
immune to sleep, charm, fear; XP 93 
each. 


In the center of the chamber mosaic 
tiles have been set into the earthen 
floor in the shape of the cloverleaf rune 
in the outer cavern. (This is Alokkair's 
sigil.) At the rear of the chamber is a set 
of stone doors, wizard-locked at 20th 
level, with 22 gp scattered before them. 
They have been scratched and clawed 
by the ghouls. 

3. The doors open into this corridor, 
also cut from solid rock, with a floor of 
dressed stone slabs. It stretches away 
some 90' to an empty stone seat or 
throne, which glows with a faint, flick 
ering faerie fire-like radiance. The cor 
ridor appears empty. 

The throne is an illusion; the corridor 
actually ends 90' away in a single, 
unlocked door of counterbalanced 
stone. The corridor's ceiling is 30' up, 
well above the tops of both doors. Hid 
ing just above the door from No. 2, on 
the inside, is a ghost spider, which 
immediately drops down to attack any 
one entering the corridor. 

There are also two concealed pit 
traps in the corridor. No. 4 and No. 5. 

Ghost spiders are common in the 
Inner Sea lands of the Forgotten 
Realms. They are simply a variety of 
large spider with translucent, light- 
reflecting skin making them appear 
pearly white in light, and nearly -90% 
- invisible in darkness. Their venom 
does not kill; instead, it causes a para 
lyzed slumber lasting 2d4 rounds (save 
vs. poison at + 1 to avoid). Victims can 
not be roused by shaking, slapping, 
noises, or the like. The potency of a 
ghost spider's venom varies: each time a 
creature is bitten it must save or be sent 
into slumber which begins quite sud 
denly, in the round after the victim is 
bitten. 


67 







HH 

Door 

- 

CoffiN Spyhole 

H 

Double Doons 

* . 

¦ • • 

Rubble \ " up | RaMp 

hH 

Secnet Door 


Pit (coNcealeb) 

La. J 

m 

ONe-way Sccnet Door 

j_ 

j Etxje of CaveRN Roof 



Ghost spider (1): AC 8; MV 6"/15"; 
HD 1 + 1; hp 4; # AT 1; Dmg 1 plus 
venom; Size lVi; XP 73. 


4. Anyone stepping on the section of 
floor marked on the map causes the 
entire 10'xlO' area to tip on concealed 
pivots like a teeter-totter, and flip over 
after the character has fallen into the 
pit thus revealed. Anyone in the 10' 
area must make two successful Dexteri 
ty checks to leap clear; a single success 
ful check means that the character has 
been struck by an edge of the moving 
stone slab, for ld4 damage. If the char 
acter was the adventurer who trigger 
ed the trap, this means he fell into it, his 
feet coming in contact with the monster 
below, but grabbed the edge of the pit, 
and was struck from above by the fall 
ing, flipping slab. If alone, he must 
make a third successful Dexterity check 
to climb free of the weight of the slab 
and avoid falling into the pit. Other 
wise, his fate depends on the actions of 


his fellows vis-a-vis the teeter-totter 
slab. 

In the 10' x 10' pit is a gelatinous 
cube, placed there by Alokkair, which is 
hungry and seeking to leave. As the 
teeter-totter flooring about it is dis 
turbed, it extends pseudopods upward. 
If the trap is jammed open, it will creep 
up the walls in one corner and try to 
leave the trap in the round after the 
trap is triggered. It can fit through a V 
gap of any width. If this is prevented, it 
will attempt to envelop anyone in the 
pit. If it does escape the trap, it follows 
the adventurers as far as the Grinding 
Gulf, blocking their retreat. 


Gelatinous Cube (1): AC 8; MV 6"; 

HD 4; hp 29; # AT 1; Dmg special, 
contact does ld8 + 1 hp of tissue- 
corrosive damage, touch paralyzes 
for 4d4 +4 rounds unless save is 
made; XP 241. 


5. This pit trap is identical to No. 4, 
except that it contains water, not a 


gelatinous cube. The water is 20' deep, 
polluted (8% chance of mild parasitic 
infestation of the skin of any creature 
contacting it) and contains the body of a 
drowned ghost spider. Anyone falling 
into the pit will be plunged into the 
water, unable to breathe, and has one 
round per point of Constitution above 
14 to attempt to force up the teeter- 
totter slab and get out. (Regardless of 
Constitution score, an immersed being 
always has at least one round to 
escape.) A successful Strength Check is 
required to do this. Note that if any 
companion of a victim moves the slab, 
the victim must make a Dexterity Check 
to avoid being hit by the moving stone 
and dealt 1 hp of damage per round of 
slab movement. 

After running out of air, a character 
in the water can survive for one round 
longer if a successful Constitution 
Check is made, but during this time, the 
character is unconscious and must be 
pulled from the pit by another charac 
ter or join the ghost spider in the 
watery grave. 


68 





















6. The door at the end of the corri 
dor (No. 3) opens into this room. It is a 
20' x 20' chamber carved out of solid 
stone, with a man-height mirror of pol 
ished bronze facing anyone entering it. 
Another stone door is also visible, cut 
with the cloverleaf rune of Alokkair. It 
is locked, and the key is missing; it must 
be picked. 

The mirror is non-magical and harm 
less. The ceiling rises up 30' into a 
roughly carved stone tunnel, which 
leads on to No. 8. At its lip, high above 
the adventurers, squat two gargoyles. 
Each has a wand of magic detection, 
which it trains on anyone entering the 
room. 


Gargoyles (2): AC 5; MV 9"/15"; 
HD 4+4; hp 32, 30; # AT; Dmg ld3/ 
Id3/ld6/ld4 (claw/claw/gore/bite); 
SD +1 or better weapon to hit; XP 
245 each. 


When it has discovered what it can, 
each gargoyle swoops down and 


attempts to snatch one magical item 
from an adventurer, unless there are no 
such items, in which case the monsters 
attack to slay. They will leave their 
wands in the tunnel, above. To avoid a 
snatch, an adventurer must make a suc 
cessful Strength Check. Each gargoyle 
makes two snatch attempts per round 
(replacing the claw attacks). When each 
has taken at least one magical item or 
killed one intruder, both flee up 
through the tunnel, swinging a great 
iron grating down behind them to block 
off any pursuit. This locks into place 
with a clang; only Alokkair has the key 
to release it, although the old massive 
mechanism can easily be picked (+5 on 
all chances). 

The gargoyles know only that their 
master is "a great and terrible wizard," 
and "very powerful"; they promptly 
take any magical items they seize (and 
their wands) to Alokkair. He has 
enchanted them into immunity from 
any mental or magical control or influ 
ence except his own. 

7. The locked door from No. 6 opens 


into a smoothly carved hallway which is 
hung with weapons. It ends 70' away in 
stone double doors. On the left wall, by 
the doors, at shoulder level for an 
average-height man, the cloverleaf 
rune is carved. 

Two battle-axes (dmg ld81, two 
guisarmes (dmg 2d41, six daggers (dmg 
ld41, two hand axes (dmg ld61, and 
three clubs (dmg ld6) hang from rusty 
hooks on the wall. They are normal, 
non-magical weapons, and can be free 
ly handled, but they and the whole hall 
way radiate a dweomer. 

They are enchanted: when the stone 
double doors at the end of the hallway 
are touched, all will animate and attack 
any living creatures within 6", levitat 
ing wildly about. Each weapon is AC 4 
to hit, moves 24" per round (MC: A), 
and attacks twice per round. Each shat 
ters if dealt 6 hp of damage. Any char 
acter grasping one and attempting to 
control it must make a non-damaging, 
weaponless attack (successful hit roll 
required) to grab the weapon, and two 
Strength Checks per round thereafter; 


69 

























the first to control the weapon, pre 
venting it from twisting and jerking 
about to attack its holder or another 
creature, the second to keep hold of it. 
The weapons attack until there are no 
living creatures within 6", pursuing if 
necessary, until they are all destroyed, 
or until someone presses or touches 
Alokkair's rune on the wall. If this hap 
pens, the weapons instantly drop to the 
floor, forever lifeless and non-magical. 
The double doors at the end of the hall 
are wizard locked at 20th level. 

8. The Grinding Gulf. Adventurers 
getting through the doors from No. 7 
emerge onto a ledge over cacophony. A 
black gulf or chasm stretches before 
the party, its unseen bottom 220' 
below, its ends a quarter-mile in either 
direction, its stalactite-studded lime 
stone ceiling 10' above. 

The gulf is full of floating, rapidly 
moving rocks which swoop, tumble, 
and soar about, crashing off the walls 
and each other. This mighty enchant 
ment worked by Alokkair discourages 
casual invasions of his lair, and the 
bone-strewn floor far below serves him 
as a garbage disposal. It is strewn with 
bones, a knee-deep rubble of stone 
chips, battered and unusable weapons, 
and a scattering of coins, rotting purses 
and baldrics, and perhaps a scavenging 
monster or two. At the DM's option, the 
ceiling might contain a few piercers, 
nestling in cavities where they are less 
likely to be crushed by ricocheting 
rocks. The Grinding Gulf is constantly 
rocked by stony collisions, and sprays 
of stone chips do ld2 points of damage 
per round to all beings in the area who 
fail a save vs. death magic in that round. 

Most of the rocks are large enough for 
two people to cling to. At least six are 
large enough for three man-sized crea 
tures, four are large enough to seat four, 
and two are large enough for six; one can 
carry 10. These rocks can be controlled 
by the thoughts of intelligent creatures 
touching them; look at a place, think of 
being there, and the rock moves toward 
it at 10' per round, if all such creatures on 
a given rock concentrate on the same des 
tination, of course. 


Stones, 2d8 of them per round head for 
the ledge or any rock ridden by charac 
ters. For combat, consider the rocks' 
attack rank as fifth-level fighters, and 
their AC to be that of the nearest adven 
turer. Hits do ldl2 points of spray/shards 
damage to all characters within a 22' radi 
us; a direct hit on any character will do 
ld20 + 10 points of damage. 

To proceed, adventurers have to mas 
ter the rocks of the Gulf, and guide 
them to the correct cave mouth (No. 11) 
to reach Alokkair's lair (see No. 10). For 
falling rules, see No. 11. 

9. This cave mouth leads to a natural 
fissure cavern where three spread 
winged gargoyle skeletons are suspend 
ed in midair, in webs. It is the lair of two 
giant spiders. A successful save vs. the 
venom of these 20'-long black spiders 
means that the venom of that particular 
spider can never harm the successfully 
saving character. The spiders rest on 
the ceiling and drop down upon any 
intruders, seeking to slay and feed. 

10. This ledge and overhang is home 
to two more gargoyles (stats as in No. 5, 
previous, but hp 24, 26), who leap onto 
the moving rocks of the Gulf, control 
ling them expertly - reaching out to 
deftly touch free-moving rocks, allow 
ing them to boost the rocks in a desired 
direction: to ram characters' rocks. The 
gargoyles leap onto the rocks of wound 
ed characters to kill, and then seize all 
items carried, on Alokkair's orders. 
Like the gargoyles in No. 6, they cannot 
be mentally or magically controlled. 

11. This ledge and cave mouth is the 
entrance to Alokkair's lair. The ledge is 
crumbling away under repeated rocky 
impacts, and is treacherous. Any adven 
turers attempting to leap from a rock to 
land safely on the ledge must make a 
Dexterity Check. Those who fail fall 
into the Gulf (perhaps with part of the 
ledge) or are struck by a rock. A charac 
ter falling into the Gulf comes into con 
tact with ld8 + 11 rocks. Determine the 
number of rocks and roll hits for each; 
any successful hit does a character 2d4 
points of impact damage, plus a possible 
ldl2 points of shard damage if other 
rocks are near. A character can cling to 


or grasp any rocks striking him by mak 
ing a successful Dexterity Check, but 
damage is still suffered. Characters 
who ride rocks into any part of the 
Gulf's walls, floor, or ceiling suffer 
direct hit damage (see No. 8). 

Alokkair's lair from this point on is 
cut out of earth and rock, and sheathed 
in smooth-dressed stone slabs, which 
are fixed to a hidden lead lining behind 
them by a thick mortar of Alokkair's 
devising. It contains gorgon's blood, oil 
of etherealness, and other exotic ingre 
dients, and has the following effects: 

• Every part of the lair radiates a 
dweomer. 

• No one can teleport into or out of 
the lair; teleportation within the lair is 
unaffected. Word of recall will not 
work. 

• No one can pass through any walls 
of the lair by turning ethereal. 

• No one can scry or otherwise magi 
cally look into or cast spells into the lair 
from outside. 

• No one can summon a Leomund's 
secret chest or successfully use Draw 
ing's instant summons into the lair from 
outside, or out of the lair from inside. 

12. The unlocked, heavy stone door 
to this chamber will ring a far-off, deep 
gong when it is opened, alerting the 
lich. Its inside is smeared with what 
appears to be stucco (Alokkair's special 
mortar, see No. 11 above). 

The chamber is empty except for 
unlocked plain stone doors to the left of 
entering adventurers and straight 
ahead, across the room. Fourteen skele 
tons stand here, armed with old, rust 
ing weapons. Any strike with these has 
an 8% chance of causing blood poison 
ing; treat as "terminal acute blood dis 
ease" and refer to the DMG for details. 
The skeletons attack any living creature 
entering the chamber who is not a gar 
goyle under Alokkair's enchantment. 


Skeletons (14): AC 7; MV 12"; HD 
1; hp 7 each; # AT 1; Dmg ld6; SD 
cannot be turned or clerically 
destroyed or damned; XP 17 each. 


70 

















Alokkair watches intruders from this 
point on, using a series of peepholes 
concealed by solid stone wall illusions 
from his secret passage. He uses a wand 
of magic detection to learn further 
about magic carried by intruders, and, 
by a lever in No. 20, can open the door 
between No. 12 and No. 13 if the party 
seems strong, activating the golem (oth 
erwise, he releases it after they leave 
No. 12, to block their retreat). 

13. A stone golem stands here. It will 
attack any living being that enters No. 
13 or is present in No. 12 when the con 
necting door is opened. The golem 
avoids striking weapons or other items 
if possible (in case they are magical), 
concentrating on the bodies of the crea 
tures it faces. It will not move beyond 
chambers No. 12 and No. 13 unless 
directly commanded to by Alokkair. 


Stone golem (1): AC 5; MV 6"; HD 

14; hp 60; # AT 1; Dmg 3d8; SA cast 
slow-spell every second round on 
any opponent within 1" of its front; 
XP 3,730. 


14. This room contains seven skele 
tons (stats as in No. 12, above, 7 hp 
each), all armed with rusted weapons 
and cannot be clerically destroyed or 
turned. Three wait against the wall on 
either side of the door from No. 12, and 
will surge forward to attack intruders 
entering the chamber. The seventh 
skeleton stands in front of the closed, 
locked, plain stone door to No. 15, fac 
ing the door from No. 12. It will cast 
hold monster at any living creature 
entering the room. (See "The Lords of 
Darkness," imbue undead with spell 
ability.) It casts this as if it were 
Alokkair, with a 10" range and 20- 
round duration, affecting as many crea 
tures as possible and then attacking. 
Note that if a single target successfully 
saves against the spell, all affected 
beings are slowed, not held. The skele 
tons pursue intruders throughout the 
lair to slay, but cannot cross the Gulf 
without aid because they have no 
minds to guide the rocks. (Alokkair can 


cause the rocks to form an unbroken, 
unmoving temporary bridge across the 
Gulf if he wants to send any creatures 
after fleeing adventurers.) 

15. This room has a 30' high ceiling, 
and a plain stone door wizard-locked at 
20th level opposite the door from No. 
14. The room contains an illusion of six 
stout, iron-bound wooden chests 
ranged against the left wall. In reality, 
the room is empty, and is a trap: Any 
one stepping on the floor at any point 
beyond 10' from the wall adjoining No. 
14 brings tragedy down on the heads of 
all in the room. Literally. 

The floor sinks several inches, trig 
gering a mechanical trap. The entire 
ceiling splits across in seven lines, fold 
ing down in rows of doors, spilling car 
rion, rot grubs which have been 
feeding on it, and glass flasks of poison 
gas down into the room. 

The 14 flasks all shatter as they land, 
releasing gas that fills the room in three 
rounds, lasting for six rounds thereaf 
ter before dissipating, and affecting No. 
14 and No. 16 in the fourth and fifth 
rounds. Anyone in these areas while 
the gas cloud is effective must save vs. 
poison each round, or fall into a drowsy 
dizziness beginning in one round, last 
ing for four rounds, and ending in a 2d6 
turn sleep. Drowsy victims are - 3 to 
hit and suffer an AC penalty of -4. 
Sleeping victims can be roused by slap 
ping or attacks, but will be drowsy for 
ld4 rounds (effects as above) on awak 
ening. 

The 19 rot grubs attack hungrily. 


Rot grubs (19): AC 9; MV 1"; hp 1; 
Dmg special; A burrow to slay in 
ld3 turns unless killed by cure dis 
ease or flame (ld6 flame damage to 
victim); XP 8 each. 


16. This plain, apparently empty 
corridor has two pit traps (see No. 4) 
hidden in its floor. Falling damage of 
2d6 applies to anyone falling in, and at 
the bottom of each is a zombie which 
attacks any arrivals. 


Zombie (1): AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 
15; # AT 1 (always last); Dmg ld8; SD 
immune to sleep, charm, hold, and 
cold-based spells; XP 58. 


Alokkair's enchantments cause a 
reverse gravity spell to affect everyone 
in the corridor except someone in, or 
partially in, a pit trap every time a pit 
trap lid flips over. The ceiling is 15' 
above the corridor's floor; all affected 
creatures suffer ld6 damage (reduced 
to 1 if they make a successful Dexterity 
Check) from falling "up" to the ceiling, 
plus an immediate 1 hp damage upon 
falling back down to the floor. The lat 
ter can be avoided with a successful 
Dexterity Check. 

17. In this chamber stand 16 zom 
bies (stats as in No. 16, 15 hp each). All 
have been specially enchanted by 
Alokkair to be immune to turning or 
destroy/damn attempts. All are holding 
flasks of poison gas (one per zombie, for 
effects see No. 16). They hurl these at 
the floor if any living creature enters 
the room, and then attack. Facing the 
door from No. 16 is an archway filled by 
a massive, unlocked wooden door with 
ornate scrolled iron hinges. It leads to 
No. 18. 

18. This chamber is vast and dark, 
with a ceiling 30' up and a floor 20' 
below. The entry door swings back into 
No. 17, to reveal a projecting jetty: The 
10 1 wide floor passing through the 
archway projects out into the room like 
a lowered drawbridge, ending in mid 
air. At its end, a glowing two-handed 
sword levitates point downward in the 
air. It is the only source of light in the 
room. By its pearly-white radiance, 
heaps of gold pieces can be seen gleam 
ing on the floor below the jetty. The jet 
ty is 6" thick, and has no rails. 

The sword is an illusion. So are the 
gold pieces. A darkness 15' radius spell 
on the underside of the jetty conceals a 
lernaean hydra. The hydra hides silent 
ly until at least one creature passes over 
it, and then its heads rise on either side 
of the jetty to cut off retreat to the door. 


71 
















The jetty floor has little chimes 
attached to it that ring faintly as each 
stone is trodden on, so the hydra can 
readily tell how far a creature has come 
without showing any of its heads by 
looking. 


Lernaean hydra (1): AC 5; MV 9"; 

HD 5; hp 8 x 5 (5 heads); # AT 1 per 
head; Dmg bite for ld6, then ld8 and 
ldlO as it gains heads; SA grows 2 
new heads in ld4 rounds whenever 
one is killed or severed, unless fire is 
applied; XP 315. 


Instead of the illusory gold pieces, 
bones and zombies wait below the jetty. 
There are 15 zombies (as in No. 16, pre 
vious, 12 HP each, unaffected by turn 
ing or destroy/damn) waiting to attack 
all intruders who reach the floor of the 
room. The zombies try to lead strong 
opponents across two 10' x 10' x 30' 
deep pit traps (3d6 falling damage) hid 
den among the bones. When anyone 
falls in onto a layer of sharp bones, the 
zombies swing shut barred gratings 
over the traps (normal "bend bars" 
chances to escape) to cage the intruder 
for later interrogation by Alokkair. 
There is no treasure, nor visible doors, 
in the lower level of this room. 

19. These lightless service corridors 
open into Nos. 12, 15, and 17 by means 
of one-way secret doors. A "normal" 
secret door connects them to No. 18, 
and a one-way secret door from No. 20 
opens into them. Ten zombies (as in No. 
16, previous) wait here. The closing of 
doors leading out of the rooms listed 
ring little gongs not audible in the 
rooms themselves. These gongs acti 
vate the non-turnable zombies to enter 
any vacated room, one holding the door 
open with its body, and the others 
removing all debris, corpses, and mag 
ic. Corpses will be decapitated and the 
bodies dumped into No. 8, the heads 
retained for Alokkair to magically ques 
tion or use in his researches. 

If any living creature not accompa 
nied by Alokkair enters an area where 
these zombies are working. They 


immediately attack, and the zombie 
standing in the doorway retreats and 
closes the secret door. The one-way 
doors cannot be opened from the 
"wrong" side (inside the rooms), and 
must be destroyed to permit passage. 

Where the corridors fork, two 
shriekers stand. They shriek as a warn 
ing system if light reaches them. From 
the fork, one of the corridors slopes 
downward to No. 18. A peephole con 
cealed by a "solid stone" illusion looks 
down through the floor into No. 16. 


Shriekers (2): AC 7; MV 1"; HD 3; 

hp 22, 20; XP 98 each. 

20. This passage and sanctum is 
inhabited by the lich Alokkair 
(described in "The Night Gallery" sec 
tion of this book). Peepholes concealed 
by solid wall illusions open into Nos. 12, 
13,14,15, and through the secret door 
into No. 17. Refer to No. 12 for 
Alokkair's activities observing 
intruders. He can use wizard eye to 
observe adventurers not in the rooms 
noted, and will employ vocalize and 
minor globe of invulnerability before 
any expected combat. DMs should refer 
to "The Night Gallery" for details on 
Alokkair. His primary aim is to prevent 
intruders from leaving, and gain any 
magic or magical knowledge that he 
can from them. His secondary aim is to 
avoid face-to-face combat; he will 
attempt to avoid PCs, using his spells 
mercilessly to disable and destroy if 
pursued, and will go via the one-way 
secret door into No. 19 and out to No. 8, 
where he can teleport away to where 
he has hidden his phylactery - and 
become a tireless, long-term foe of the 
PCs. 

The passage has a 20' high ceiling. 
The sanctum room has a 40' ceiling, 
and contains Alokkair's spell books and 
juju zombies. If the globe is discovered 
and broken by dispel magic, the zom 
bies attempt to take the spell books out 
to No. 8, attacking any living creatures 
in their path. The globe confers invisi 
bility on all movable objects and crea 


tures within it, and is a long-lasting 
variant of Tenser's floating disc. 

The sanctum is connected to No. 17 
by a secret door that is wizard-locked at 
20th level by Alokkair, and carries an 
additional enchantment: except to 
Alokkair, it opens only once every nine 
rounds. The one-way secret door from 
the sanctum into No. 19 carries a simi 
lar enchantment, as do the two secret 
doors into Nos. 21 and 22. 

The sanctum contains a table and 
chair, next to a wall shelf holding a row 
of severed heads. Alokkair intends to 
interrogate the remains of these unfor 
tunate adventurers. The DM should 
devise leads to future adventures that 
these can communicate to PCs if a 
speak with the dead spell is used. On 
the table are rows of vials contain vari 
ous rare material component substanc 
es in fluid, and (at the DM's option) 
useful potions such as extra healing, 
flight, and invisibility. 

21. This low-ceilinged (5') cellar con 
tains treasure: 16 neatly arranged 
strong chests of magically preserved 
oak bound about with metal straps. All 
are wizard-locked at 20th level by 
Alokkair, as is the cellar door. Their con 
tents are as follows: 

• Twelve contain 1,000 gp each, in 
cloth bags of 100 gp. 

• Two contain silver trade bars, tar 
nished black over the years, each worth 
25 gp. There are 60 trade bars in one 
chest, and 53 in the other. 

• One contains loose gold pieces 
gleaned from intruders (876 in all), and 
a cloth bag of 26 platinum pieces. 

• One contains loose silver pieces 
(516) and copper pieces (428) taken 
from intruders, all mixed together. 

22. This low-ceilinged (5') cellar con 
tains Alokkair's magical treasure: a 
broom of animated attack, a false spell 
book trapped with explosive runes, and 
any legitimate magical items a DM wish 
es to introduce into his or her campaign 
are here. It is suggested that an assort 
ment of +1 weapons gleaned from 
adventurers be among them. The cellar 
door is wizard-locked at 20th level. 


72 














RuK)K))K)g ALokkaiR 

Alokkair has a cruel sense of humor, and 
amuses himself by devising elaborate illu 
sions. Once he is aware of adventurers 
approaching (usually by the gargoyles 
from No. 8), he begins to entertain PCs 
with illusions. Standing in the open door 
way of No. 12, Alokkair uses seven illu 
sion scrolls plus a wizard eye scroll to 
follow the activities of adventurers 
closely, remaining hidden deep in the 
cavern mouth and retreating if PCs begin 
to master the rocks of the Gulf. 

Alokkair's primary motives, besides 
entertainment, are to learn what magic 
a party carries, and to prevent their 
retreat. He will employ a very elaborate 
illusion of a menacingly drifting behold 
er behind the party if a wholesale PC 
retreat begins, to stop the retreat and 
keep the PCs underground, if he can. 
He also challenges them with illusions 
of such creatures as illithids and intel 
lect devourers, rust monsters and dis- 
enchanters, and the like, to make PCs 
reveal their magical equipment. 

A journey into Alokkair's lair should 
be memorable not only for the Gulf and 
the many traps, but the many illusory 
attacks. These should include such 
delights as: 

• A stone golem revealed when a 
door is opened, striding to the attack. If 
this is used several times, the real golem 
in No. 13 may take the party by sur 
prise. 

• A black-robed, cruel-faced mage 
casting a spell at PCs. 

• A skull silently rising from the 
floor, resembling a demi-lich. 

• Nero or more drow bending over a 
stone block where a nude human is 
bound, preparing for a sacrifice or 
magical experiment. 

• Dead relatives, lovers, or recent 
acquaintances of PCs appearing as 
undead, revenants, or zombies. The 
appearances are divined by Alokkair 
using ESP, if anyone in the party thinks 
of a person not present in the party. 
Alokkair will use information gleaned 
by his ESP to make such images speak 
to the PCs in a realistic manner if he 


chooses vampiric images and the like. 
Such illusory beings could entice PCs on 
into the lair by speaking of treasure 
beyond that slew them, or that drained 
their magic. Famous artifacts could be 
mentioned, or famous missing persons 
for which many seek and/ or a reward is 
offered. 

• A drow caravan wending its way 
along the bottom of the Grinding Gulf, 
presumably using magic to prevent 
damage from the rocks. Many heavily 
laden pack lizards under only a light 
guard, ripe for attack by PCs from 
above. PCs who succumb to temptation 
may find themselves facing a variety of 
formidable monsters who inhabit the 
Gulf floor; cloakers, large groups of 
stirges, galeb duhr, and the like. 

The cumulative effect of Alokkair's 
illusions should be that PCs never trust 
what they see in the lair. The DM should 
make full use of description to make the 
lair seem eerie and menacing, as with 
all undead lairs. 

Beyowd The La)r 

Alokkair has at least one other hide 
away, somewhere in the Stonelands, 
where he keeps his phylactery - and 
perhaps other caches/lairs in Sembia 
and in the Desertsmouth mountains 
near the old dwarven realm of Tethy- 
amar. The DM should decide where 
Alokkair will escape to, if he can, and 
how strong his ties with local drow are. 
He has access to an unlife spell (see "The 
Lords of Darkness" section), and will 
send created undead after any PCs who 
escape with some of "his" magic in their 
possession. And who knows: Perhaps 
he will ally with the Zhentarim and rise 
to rule a re-founded realm of Hlontar 
again, able to tirelessly send many 
agents after the PCs! 

Alokkair is no coward, but he will see 
little profit in confronting PCs to battle 
it out, when he can strike from the 
shadows and flee, to attack again when 
PCs are weak or unprepared. He has 
many servant creatures to send after 
PCs - and PCs wanting to face him 
directly will find flushing him out very 


difficult unless they seize all of 
Alokkair's magic. PCs who need aid to 
survive encounters with Alokkair could 
be rescued by his missing daughter, 
Alaphlame (a mid- to high-level magic- 
user) if the DM desires. Certainly 
Alokkair should be an opponent players 
will not soon forget. 

CReaTuRe Notes 

The urge for immortality is so strong in 
some powerful mages and magic-user/ 
clerics that they aspire to lichdom, 
despite its horrible physical side effects 
and the usual loss of friends and living 
companionship. Lichdom must be pre 
pared for in life; no true lich ever is 
known to have come about "naturally." 

Becoming a Ucb 

To become a lich, a magic-user or magic- 
user/cleric must attain at least the 18th 
level of experience as a magic-user. The 
candidate for lichdom must have access 
to the spells magic jar, enchant an item, 
and trap the soul. Nulathoe's Ninemen, 
a fifth-level magic-user spell (detailed in 
the FORGOTTEN REALMS'" boxed set) 
which serves to preserve corpses 
against decay, keeping them strong and 
supple as in life, is also required. 

The process of attaining lichdom is 
ruined if the candidate dies at any point 
during it. Even if successful resurrec 
tion follows, the process must be start 
ed anew. The process involves the 
preparation of a magical phylactery 
and a potion. Most candidates prepare 
the potion first and arrange for an 
apprentice or ally to raise them if inges 
tion of the potion proves fatal. Prepara 
tion of the phylactery is so expensive 
that most candidates do not wish to 
waste all the effort of its preparation by 
dying after it is completed but before 
they are prepared for lichdom. 

The nine ingredients of the potion are 
as follows: 

Arsenic (2 drops of the purest distil 
late) 

Belladonna (1 drop of the purest dis 
tillate) 


73 












Blood (1 quart of blood from a dead 
virginal human infant killed by wyvern 
venom) 

Blood (1 quart from a dead demi- 
human slain by a phase spider) 

Blood (1 quart from a vampire or a 
being infected with vampirism) 

Heart (the intact heart of a humanoid 
killed by poisoning; a mixture of arsenic 
and belladonna must be used) 

Reproductive glands (from seven 
giant moths dead for less than 10 days, 
ground together) 

Venom (1 pint or more, drawn from 
a phase spider less than 30 days pre 
vious) 

Venom (1 pint or more, drawn from 
a wyvern less than 60 days previous) 

The ingredients are mixed in the 
order given by the light of a full moon, 
and must be drunk within seven days 
after they combine into a bluish- 
glowing, sparkling black liquid. All of 
the potion must be drunk by the candi 
date, and within 6 rounds will produce 
an effect as follows (roll percentile 
dice): 

Lichnee Potion Table 

01-10 All body hair falls out, but 
potion is ineffective (the candidate 
knows this). Another potion must be 
prepared if lichdom is desired. 

11-40 Candidate falls into a coma 
for ld6 + 1 days, is physically helpless 
and immobile, mentally unreachable. 
Potion works; the candidate knows 
this. 

41-70 Potion works, but candidate 
is feebleminded, Any failed attempt to 
cure the candidate's condition is 20% 
likely to slay the candidate. 

71-90 Potion works, but candidate 
is paralyzed for 2d6 + 2 days (no saving 
throw, curative magics notwithstand 
ing). There is a 30% chance for perma 
nent loss of ld6 Dexterity points. 

91-96 Potion works, but candidate 
is permanently deaf (01-33), dumb (34- 
66), or blind (67-00). The lost sense can 
only be regained by a full or limited 
wish. 

97-00 Death of the candidate. 
Potion does not work. 


The successfully prepared candidate 
for lichdom can exist for an indefinite 
number of years before becoming a 
lich. He will not achieve lichdom upon 
death unless preparation of his or her 
phylactery is complete. A successfully 
prepared candidate may appear some 
what paler of skin than before imbibing 
the potion, but cannot mentally or mag 
ically be detected by others as ready for 
lichdom. The candidate, however, is 
always aware of readiness for lichdom, 
even if charmed or insanity or memory 
loss occurs. (A charmed candidate can 
never be made to reveal where his phy 
lactery is - although he could be com 
pelled to identify what the phylactery 
is, if shown it.) 

The phylactery may take any form - 
it may be a pendant, gauntlet, scepter, 
helm, crown, ring, or even a lump of 
stone. It must be of inorganic material, 
must be solid and of high-quality work 
manship if man-made, and cannot be an 
item having other spells or magical 
properties on or in it. It may be deco 
rated or carved in any way desired for 
distinction. 

Enchant an item is cast upon the phy 
lactery (this is one of the rare cases in 
which this spell can be cast on 
unworked material), a process requir 
ing continual handling of the phylac 
tery for a long time, as described in the 
PLAYER'S HANDBOOK. The phylactery 
must successfully make its saving 
throw as noted in the spell description. 
It must be completely enchanted within 
nine days (not the 24 hours normally 
allowed by the spell). Note that the 
"additional spell" times given in the 
enchant an item spell description are 
required. 

When the phylactery is thereby made 
ready for enchantment, the candidate 
must cast trap the soul on it. Percentile 
dice are rolled; the spell has a 50% 
chance or working, plus 6% per level of 
the candidate (or caster, if it is another 
being) over 11th level. The phylactery 
glows with a flickering blue-green faer 
ie fire-like radiance for one round if it is 
successfully receptive for the candi 
date's soul. 


The candidate then must cast 
Nulathoe's Ninemen on the phylactery, 
and within one turn of doing so, cast 
magic jar on it and enter it with his life 
force. No victim is required for this use 
of the magic jar spell. 

Upon entering the phylactery, the 
candidate instantly loses one experi 
ence level along with its commensurate 
spells and hit points. The soul and lost 
hit points remain in the phylactery, 
which becomes AC 0 and has those hit 
points henceforth. The candidate is 
now a lichnee, and must return to his 
own body to rest for ld6 + 1 days. The 
ordeal of becoming a lichnee is so trau 
matic that the candidate forgets any 
memorized spells of the top three levels 
available to him, and cannot regain any 
spells of those levels until the rest peri 
od is complete. (Candidates usually 
then resume a life of adventuring to 
regain the lost level.) 

The next time the lichnee candidate 
dies, regardless of the manner or pla 
nar location of death, or barriers of any 
sort between corpse and phylactery, 
the candidate's life force will go into the 
phylactery. For it to emerge again, 
there must be a recently dead (less than 
30 days) corpse within 90 feet of the 
phylactery. The corpse may be that of 
any creature, and must fail a saving 
throw vs. spell to be possessed. If it 
makes its saving throw, it will never 
receive the lich. 

If the creature had 3 hit dice or fewer 
in life, it saves as a zero-level fighter. If it 
had 3 + 1 hit dice or greater in life, it 
saves as if it were alive, with the follow 
ing alignment modifiers: LG, CG, NG: 
+ 0; LN, CN, N: - 3; LE, - 4; NE: - 5; CE: 
-6. The candidate's own corpse, if 
within range, is at -10, and may have 
been dead for any length of time. The 
lichnee may attempt to enter his own 
corpse once per week until succeeding. 
(A phylactery too well-hidden might 
never offer the lichnee a corpse to 
enter. Many lichnee commit suicide to 
save themselves such troubles.) When 
the lichnee enters its own corpse, it ris 
es in ld4 turns as a full lich, with all 
memorized spells and all undead abili- 


74 








ties as described in this book and the 
MONSTER MANUAL. 

If the lichnee enters another's corpse, 
he is limited to the corpse's living 
strength, and will have no more than 4 
hit dice. The intelligence and wisdom of 
the lichnee candidate are preserved, 
and the corpse will rise after ld3 turns 
of apparent continuing death (the lich 
nee's presence being undetectable dur 
ing this time) as a wight. This wightish 
body cannot drain life energy, and will 
be telepathic if it could speak in life. If it 
could cast spells when alive, the lichnee 
may cast already memorized spells, or 
study and cast new ones, of up to 
fourth level (clerical, magic-user or 
both, according to the candidate's origi 
nal class abilities). In the wightish body, 
the lichnee will seek his own body. 

Thanks to the potion ingested earlier, 
the candidate's own corpse can only be 
destroyed by failing a save - as if it 
were the living candidate, just prior to 
death - against a disintegrate spell. 
Even if the body is burned or dismem 
bered, its ashes or pieces will radiate an 
unlimited-range locate object to the 
lichnee. He may well encounter difficul 
ties in regaining his body parts, but if 
and when he does so, he will eat them. 

Seven days after ingesting any part of 
the candidate's original body, the wight 
ish lichnee body will metamorphose 
into a body similar to the candidate's 
original one, and manifest full lich 
powers and abilities (re-roll hit points 
using eight-sided dice). 

Ucb Magic 

Once attaining full lichdom, a lich can 
elect to "permanently" memorize one 
spell per character experience level 
attained in life. Such spells require one 
full day to impress on the lich's mind. 
Once so remembered, they will auto 
matically be regained 66 turns after 
casting, forever after without recourse 
to spell books or need for study. Liches 
can always elect to leave some spell 
slots open for memorization of new 
spells, or carry an assortment of spells 
as needed in the manner used in life. 


Both sorts of spells must be chosen 
from spells available to the lich for ini 
tial study. Permanent spells are cast just 
as normal spells, but require no materi 
al components. Liches cannot gain 
experience levels, and are sterile. 

A lich can use all scrolls and magical 
items used in life. Many liches arrange 
their lairs as traps to gain new magic 
from adventurers, offering treasure as 
bait. All liches know or have the spell 
Nulathoe's Ninemen, because at least 
once every 777 days they must cast it 
on their phylacteries, or they (and the 
liches) will crumble to dust on the 778th 
day. 

Life as a Ucb 

Each time a lich's life force flees to its 
phylactery, it loses a level. A 10th level 
lich will be destroyed by a return to its 
phylactery, its soul going on to the 
Lower Planes as the phylactery crum 
bles. A lich will always try to teleport (if 
the spell is available) his body back to 
the phylactery before being reduced to 
zero hit points. (At 0 hit points or less, a 
lich is destroyed forever.) The life force 
can get back to the phylactery (unstop 
pable and unattackable on the way) 
without the body, but must then 
attempt to possess a nearby corpse all 
over again, develop a wightish body, 
and search for his lich body again. A 
lich's body will never decay (due to the 
Ninemen spell). If it is disintegrated, the 
wightish lichnee will need a wish spell 
to reform it. 

P seu&o-Uches 

Pseudo-liches resemble real liches in all 
characteristics except energy draining 
and the possession of a phylactery. 
They cannot be turned, and can pro 
duce progeny. They are created when a 
very powerful magic-user is fanatically 
pursuing a certain goal at the time of 
death. Some inexplicable force, per 
haps due to years of exposure to magic, 
allows the wizard's soul to inhabit the 
shell of its dead body until the goal is 
achieved or the body crumbles to dust. 


Such pseudo-liches exist only IdlOO 
years beyond death, cannot successful 
ly prepare for lichdom while in this 
state, and are entirely intent on their 
research or goal. Unless attacked or 
prevented from furthering their all- 
important work, they will pay events 
(and adventurers) around them no 
attention. 

Deco)-L)chboco 

The process of attaining lichdom can 
sustain a lich for many lifetimes, as long 
as Nulathoe's Ninemen is faithfully cast 
upon the phylactery, and the phylac 
tery itself survives (other preservative 
magics may be cast on it without harm 
ing its efficacy). In the Forgotten 
Realms, the lich Charchee is known to 
have existed in Mulhorand for almost 
3,000 years. But usually the magic fails 
to sustain a lich much beyond 900 years 
of full lichdom. Insanity (see the DMG) 
afflicts the lich, and the body crumbles. 

Some liches survive beyond this point 
as demi-liches (described in the Mon 
ster Manual II), with abilities even more 
dangerous than those of a "normal" 
lich. Demi-lichdom is not a state that 
can be deliberately chosen or prepared 
for; why and how it occurs to some 
liches and not to others remains a mys 
tery, although great strength of will and 
activity as a lich seems to make demi- 
lichdom more likely. Perhaps fell Lower 
Plane or divine powers are involved. 
Some liches consume larvae (see Mon 
ster Manual) on a regular basis rather 
than employing Nulathoe's Ninemen to 
maintain bodily vitality; some sages 
have advanced the hypothesis that a 
demi-lich's sentience originates with 
such creatures. Investigative research 
into such details continues - but slow 
ly, sages remind us, very slowly. 


75 
















THE NIGHT GALLERY 


K etodriA the Mad 

DescndpTioto 

Kendra is a half-elven woman in her late 
30s, but looks like a crone because of her 
bedraggled, lined appearance. Her 
clothes are tattered, she bathes only 
when she is rained upon, and the light of 
insanity shines clearly in her brown eyes. 

Kendra seldom converses, and may no 
longer be capable of normal speech. She 
chuckles, laughs, mutters to herself, and 
sometimes breaks out in shrieks and sobs 
of anger or grief. For all that, she is rela 
tively self-sufficient, stealing what she 
needs to eat from farmers' fields and 
sleeping in barns and haylofts when she is 
not in a ditch or copse of trees. The mad 
woman flees human contact, and is leery 
of beasts and demi-human creatures. She 
has superhuman strength and the terri 
ble cunning of the insane. Even when she 
has been hunted, she has evaded pursuit, 
and has at times slain barehanded those 
who managed to close with her. 

STaTisTics 


Kendra: AC 10 (7 if enraged); MV 12"; 
hp 5 (stays conscious to -5 hp); Dmg 
ld2 (teeth and claws, attempts to bite 
victim's throat; AL CE; XP 500; ST 10 
(18 in self-defense); IN 16; WS 5; DX 9; 
CN 12; CH 7. 

Spells: animate dead. 


Her ability to raise skeletons comes 
from an arcane grimoire and does not 
require normal spell-casting procedures 
to be effective (see "History"). Kendra 
wears a ring of invisibility and under 
stands Common and Elvish. She is a half 
elf with infravision to 30', and is 30% 
immune to sleep and charm spells. 

H) sTory 

Kendra was unbalanced to begin with. At 
the start of her apprenticeship they 
seemed simple eccentricities, tolerated by 
her master, the fell necromancer Daal 
Kamin: her fits of giggling, her odd fond 
ness for things dead and decaying . . . 

One day she sneaked away with the 
black-bound tome of Garris Hominus, no 
true man, he, but a shadow creature 


skilled in the arts of necromancy and con- 
jurings from beyond the grave. Most of 
what she read there was beyond her abili 
ty to grasp, but all of it burned terribly 
into her brain, and cursed her with night- 
haunted visions of corpses and worm- 
eaten bones. Bones with the clean, simple 
lines of death, uncomplicated by disor 
derly flesh and human needs. Bones that 
fascinated her with a growing compul 
sion, until she had no choice but to try a 
spell she had gleaned from the black vol 
ume. 

The spell worked better than she could 
have imagined. The long-separated bones 
of the dead reformed with unnatural life, 
and pushed forth from their graves in 
every village for miles around. Her laugh 
ter rang out as she opened the gates to 
their clattering knock, and tears of 
amusement streamed down her face as 
the dead attacked the living, leaving only 
bones that reformed in their turn and 
swelled the ranks of her skeletons. Her 
minions. Even Daal Kasmin was startled 
from his sleep and died protesting that 
such magic was beyond her. 

The power of that first terrible spell 
soon faded. Her mind was incapable of 
repeating such awesome magic. Laugh 
ing, muttering, and sometimes sobbing to 
herself, Kendra wandered away down 
the moonlit road, leaving a stronghold of 
dead men and bones behind her. 

Yet the magic lingers around her. Ken 
dra is drawn to graveyards and tombs, 
and when she walks past, the bones of the 
dead knit together once more and follow 
her on her nighttime expeditions. She is 
unthinking, and the skeletons which fol 
low her are uncontrolled. She has no bid 
ding for them save her unspoken wish to 
see the clean lines of death so nicely rep 
resented in skeletal form. 

And the skeletons obey. 

EtocoutoTeizs uoTth K&todriA 

Kendra is found in rural areas where vil 
lages are scattered within walking dis 
tance of each other. It is this sort of place 
that provides her with adequate hiding 
places and sources of food. She seldom 
lingers longer than a week or two near 
any one village. If she is seen or encoun 
tered by a single individual, there is a 40% 


chance that Kendra will attack that per 
son outright in order to keep her where 
abouts secret. Otherwise, the madwoman 
flees the area immediately (unless bribed 
as detailed below). 

At least once a month, during the new 
moon, Kendra is drawn to a graveyard or 
other place where skeletons may be 
found. At that time, she sings and mutters 
to herself, undoubtedly repeating por 
tions of the original spell. Soon 2d6 skele 
tons rise from the ground and join her for 
her midnight ramble. The skeletons 
remain animated for Id4xl0 hours 
before the magical effect automatically 
dispells. 

Although Kendra may not have a con 
scious thought of wreaking havoc or 
revenge, she often retuns with the skele 
tons to a place where she was harassed or 
injured in the course of the last week or 
two. There, prompted by her unspoken 
hatred, the skeletons attack the living 
who were responsible for the "offense" to 
Kendra, whatever it may have been. 

Bribed with food and kind words, Ken 
dra can sometimes (10% chance) be lured 
into accompanying a person for a short 
time or distance. If they are with her at 
the time, the skeletons follow as well. At 
least one Evil magic-user has tried to 
enlist the madwoman's assistance in this 
way, and succeeded for a short time - 
until the skeletons attacked him, too. 

Kendra is believed to have hidden the 
lost tome of Garris Hominu, which was 
not found after Daal Kasmin's death. Cler 
ics agree it would be an act of great chari 
ty to track the madwoman and somehow 
restore her sanity, but no one has yet suc 
ceeded in doing so. 

M oriasha the 

NeTbeRese 

NecRoroAioceR 

A slender, graceful woman of pale skin, 
light eyes and black hair, Morasha's 
apparent youth belies the nearly two mil 
lennia she has owned and lived in the cas 
tle. No one looking at her would imagine 
her to be a day over 40, and only a jealous 
woman or a blind man would make that 
assessment. Her speech will be archaic, 
and her manners a bit rusty, but she com- 


76 




ports herself very much as one born to a 
minor branch of the Netherese royal 
house. 

Morasha is the great-grandniece of 
Aumvor the Undying. Like her great- 
granduncle, she is a magic-user who stud 
ied necromancy, but she moved into a 
different area of study from her other rel 
atives. For all intents and purposes, she is 
a research necromancer, which means 
her work impinges on reality as much as 
the work of a quantum physicist does in 
our world. 

Brought up on tales of Aumvor's mis 
treatment at the hands of Nuris Elfward, 
Morasha decided to redress the dishonor 
done her family. She succeeded in locat 
ing Nuris' tomb in the mountains of 
Evereska and had his bones transported 
back to her castle. She reassembled the 
skeleton and, in contemplating how to 
exact revenge upon the dead hero, she 
began to read about him in sources other 
than family chronicles. 

She enchanted his skeleton to perform 
some of the complex fencing maneuvers 
attributed to him by the bards and discov 
ered that, for an enormous man, he 
moved with incredible agility. She read 
more, including certain memoirs of a 
Netherese sorceress who had lusted after 
Nuris despite his repeated rejection of her 
advances. 

Slowly, though her studies, Morasha fell 
in love with Nuris. At first she tried to 
deny it because it would be treason 
against her family, but the more she tried 
to shut Nuris out of her mind, the more 
she came to think about him. Even as 
Netheril dried out and Anauroch's sandy 
tentacles strangled it, Morasha decided 
she would do whatever it took to bring 
her Nuris back to life. 

Her longevity is directly attributable to 
the creation of living zombies. By implant 
ing a paring from one of her fingernails 
into the flesh over their spines, she gains 
control of the individual. This mystical 
link also feeds the individual's life force 
back into her. She does not age, because 
she has literally lived out the lives of thou 
sands of animals and Zhentarim. (She sees 
the Zhentarim as little more than animals 
with hands.) 

Ultimately, Morasha is obsessed with 
returning Nuris to life. Her experiment is 


almost complete, and her attitude toward 
people from the outside depends upon 
how much or how little she believes they 
can aid her goal. As a research magician, 
her practical knowledge of offensive and 
defensive spells is nil. For all these years, 
she has had her zombies to protect her. 
Other Netherese magic-users, if others do 
survive still, might have much less of an 
academic knowledge of magic. 

Success in bringing Nuris back could 
have several different outcomes. 
Morasha could accompany Nuris on any 
and all adventures, if he decides he likes 
her company. If he rejects her, the 
chances are about even that she will go 
nuts or wander into exile. If crazy, she 
will flee in the short term to plot her 
revenge against those who helped bring 
Nuris back to life. After all, had the play 
ers not done something wrong, Nuris 
would love her. If she wanders into exile, 
she could return from time to time, espe 
cially if she needs help doing something. 
She'd not intervene in an adventure as a 
deus ex machina, but certainly could 
offer the characters employment in one 
quest or another. 

CAn.e ak>& Feedjwg of a 
LFulwg Zombie 

The ritual that binds a living zombie to a 
necromancer takes about 12 hours and 
requires intense concentration. The zom 
bie is given narcotic draughts, then sub 
jected to a whole series of stimuli that is 
shared by the necromancer. For example, 
both zombie and master would smell the 
same incense or be lowered into the same 
pool of warm water. By sharing these 
experiences, the necromancer and his or 
her victim are brought close, making it 
easier for the magic-user to take control 
of the victim's body. 

Inserting a fingernail paring into, or 
tying a braided loop of hair around, the 
victim's neck is the final action in the rit 
ual. It creates a line between the necro 
mancer and the living zombie that allows 
for control of the zombie and for the zom 
bie's life force to stream back into the nec 
romancer. The necromancer will literally 
live out the zombie's life for him or her. 

The return benefits for the living zom 
bie are such that no one chooses this as a 


career. Heightened strength and an 
increased ability to take damage are the 
only good points about this condition. 
While a zombie might, with proper care, 
live out his or her normal life span, this 
seldom happens because the victim most 
often surrenders to despair. If a victim 
has not been broken, removing the nail 
paring or cutting the braided hair loop 
will free him or her, though the former 
zombie will probably be in bad shape for 
some time thereafter, 

A recovering living zombie would prob 
ably know some of the necromancer's 
secrets, as a result of their close link. This 
could prove an interesting source of 
information for a campaign. 

Rugeio Pb)m)sTeR the 
GbasT 


Rugen Phimister: AC 4; MV 6"; HD 

9; hp 38*; # AT 3*; Dmg ld4/ld4/ldB; 
SA nausea, paralyzation; SD immune 
to sleep and charm; AL CE; XP 1,456. 

* Rugen's great bulk gives him extra 
hit points, but it also slows him down, 
giving him a -3 initiative during phys 
ical combat. 


Rugen Phimister was (or still is, as he 
sees it) a tax collector for a local lord. 
While alive, he overcharged the tax, pock 
eting the extra money, but more often 
than not, he cheated his lord. Rugen loved 
his gold, yet he loved what gold could buy 
for him just as much, if not more. He 
owned a fine villa, fine clothing, and of all 
things, he ate well. To him, it seemed that 
he could never eat enough. In life, he was 
corpulent, grossly fat. 

Yet all Rugen Phimister's ill-gotten 
wealth could not save him. While collect 
ing taxes in a small, remote town, the 
strain of his extra weight overtaxed his 
heart, and he died. The dutiful townsfolk 
notified their lord of the tax collector's 
demise (and sent along what money 
Rugen had on him, along with his record 
book), and then buried the fat corpse in 
their burial grounds, in a mass grave, 
along with a handful of plague victims 
and two bandits who had been executed 
the same day, unblessed and without cer 
emony. 


77 













For most men, this would be the end of 
their tale, but not Rugen. An appetite like 
his could survive even death. When he 
awoke, there was enough to satisfy his 
hunger ... at least for the time being. 

Called by some inner sense, Rugen bur 
rowed deep beneath his grave, and found 
a warren of ancient ghoul tunnels popu 
lated by a few emaciated, starving ghouls. 
Unlike his fellows, more of Rugen's intel 
lect survived the horrid transformation, 
and the fat, wily ghoul led the starving 
creatures to new feasts in the graveyard 
above. However, Rugen the ghoul soon 
became Rugen the ghast. Captured by 
demons, he served as a "hound," or hunt 
ing beast, for demons of the Abyss, but 
was later taken as a spoil of war by fol 
lowers of the Type VI demon Grintharke, 
who controls Hellgate Keep in the North 
(see FR5, THE SAVAGE FRONTIER). Upon 
gaining his release from Grintharke's min 
ions, Rugen returned to his former 
haunts, drawn by dim memories of the 
treasure he had secreted nearby in life. 

Rugeto's Allies 

He is always guarded by a single ghast 
and two loyal ghouls, former grave rob 
bers who were willing to risk plague in 
order to relieve the notorious Rugen 
Phimister of any funerary valuables. The 
ghast is his hunt leader, and an ally from 
his time in the outer planes. 


Ghast (1): AC 4; MV 15" ; HD 4; hp 20; 
# AT 3; Dmg ld4/ld4/ldB; SA nausea, 
paralyzation; SD immune to sleep and 
charm; AL CE; XP 205. 

Ghouls (2): AC 6; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 
12, 9; # AT 3*; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6; SA 
paralyzation; SD immune to sleep and 
charm; AL CE; XP 85 each. 


RoLepLAylMg Rug sn the 
GbasT 

Like most ghouls and ghasts, the mind of 
the man who was once Rugen Phimister 
has been destroyed by the change and 
replaced by a cunning intellect which 
partakes of both Rugen Phimister's mem 
ories and baser desires and the cruel sav 
agery of creatures of the Abyss. 


Rugen always thinks of himself first. He 
will do anything to improve his own sta 
tus, increase his own wealth, or ease the 
constant, gnawing hunger within his 
titanic scabrous belly. He makes agree 
ments he will not honor and asks for trust 
when he will give none. No lie is too base, 
no betrayal too difficult, and no deed too 
heinous for Rugen Phimister to perform. 
There is nothing in him like compassion, 
mercy, honesty, or trust. 

When encountered, he is always eating, 
stuffing rotting flesh into his snaggle- 
toothed mouth or gnawing an all-too- 
human bone. His voice is both guttural 
and hissing, and his frequent smile is near 
enough to drive a man mad. He is haugh 
ty, but needs constant reassurance that 
men (and others) still need him. 

If his undead status is mentioned in his 
presence, he becomes more unbalanced 
than usual. Like many ghouls, Rugen does 
not believe himself to be dead. A part of 
his personality still thinks of himself as 
Rugen the tax collector (it is the only way 
the small, sane part of his mind can 
rationalize eating corpses - he calls it 
"collecting"). He fully intends to turn the 
taxes he has accumulated over to his lord, 
but he can't remember where his ill- 
gotten tax treasure is hidden, 

Rugen loves gold and treasure, almost 
as much as he loves to eat, and so long as 
his enormous appetite is sated, his serv 
ices and knowledge can be bought. 

Rug&h) the Gu)be 

Though Rugen is as disgusting a creature 
as one might imagine, he also has his uses, 
though the price is high. As the former 
slave of demons, he knows the location of 
conduits to the outer planes, gates to oth 
er Prime Material Planes, and can act as a 
guide on several layers of the Abyss and 
Tarterus. So long as his personal risk is 
low, he will accompany adventurers on 
such missions. The fee for such a service 
is 2,000 gp for locating a gate or conduit 
entrance on the Prime Material Plane, 
and 10,000 gp if the fat ghast must accom 
pany PCs as a guide. On guide missions, 
he requires half payment in advance and 
a hostage from the PCs to ensure his own 
safety. He is always accompanied by his 
ghast and ghoul guards. In Tarterus or the 


Abyss, there is a 75% chance that he can 
contract a resident who owes him a 
"favor from the old days." 

Rugen knows a secret entrance to the 
137th layer of the Abyss where he was a 
slave of one of Orcus' lesser demonic 
allies. If properly bribed (Rugen still loves 
gold), he can act as a guide for travelers 
on the 137th and 138th layers of the 
Abyss, several spheres of Tarterus and at 
least the part of the Prime Material Plane 
that has been conquered by Orcus. 

Rugen can also act as a guide for charac 
ters wanting to find their way around in 
Hellgate Keep. He knows of at least one 
poorly guarded above-ground entrance 
and is intensely familiar with the ghoul 
warren beneath the city. 

ViMjAKek The GfieaT 
Wight 

From the Notebooks of Jilda the Sage of 
Neverwinter 

The great wight is a leader of wights, a 
very rare creature that can only form 
from the body of a being of consecrated 
royal blood. The original body must have 
been of lawful good alignment and been 
dedicated to the service of a lawful good 
deity, then fallen from grace and not been 
reconciled to the religion of his birth 
before he died. 

All wights must follow the commands 
of such a leader, and these leaders are 
very jealous of their leadership. No more 
than one such leader can be found among 
any collection of wights. Tyrkan the Wan 
derer speaks of seeing a battle between 
two such creatures that ended in the slow 
shrinking of one of the wights until he 
was no bigger than the others who watch 
ed, at which time he submitted himself to 
the great wight. Tyrkan then left his van 
tage point before he could be discovered 
by the no-longer-distracted wights. 

Unlike other wights, great wights are 
known to use armor and weapons to sup 
plement their normal combat techniques, 
making them even more fearsome oppo 
nents than their followers. 

Great wights are also more resistant to 
the commands of clerics. Bishop 
Sherganil of Waterdeep once attempted 
to turn a horde of wights in the cata- 


78 













combs of Waterdeep, and saw one wight, 
the leader, stay his ground while his fol 
lowers fled; the creature continued to 
attack, but fortunately, the bishop's com 
panions were of sufficient strength to 
destroy the monster before the bishop 
could be harmed. 

Notes 


FREQ rare; # APP 1; AC 3; MV 12"; HD 
7 +3; % in lair: 100%; TREAS A&B; # 
AT 2; Dmg weapon +2/special; SA 
energy drain; SD silver or magic weap 
ons to hit; MR as wights; IN average; 
AL LE; Size M; PSI nil; ATT/DEF nil. 


1. Where most wights have lost all abil 
ity to use weapons (see wights descrip 
tion), the great wight still retains the 
weapon-using abilities he had in life. 
Moreover, his undead strength gives him 
a +2 modifier to hit and damage for any 
blow he strikes with a weapon. 

2. Because of their greater power, a 
great wight must be turned as a spectre 
is, not as a wight. Thus, a cleric must be at 
least fifth level before he can hope to 
affect a great wight. 

3. Despite the statements of Jilda the 
Sage, great wights come from no more 
noble a background than their followers. 
A great wight is simply a wight that has 
managed to absorb enough life energy to 
gain in power. This to some extent 
explains the enthusiasm of wights in 
attacking their prey. The more successful 
a wight is at draining energy, the better 
chance it has of becoming a great wight 
and getting its chance to rule its kind. 

The spirits that animate wights may not 
have quite this motivation, but this is the 
best way it translates in human terms. 
The bodies animated into wights are usu 
ally those of noblemen because they are 
the ones buried with the most care given 
to preservation, thus giving the spirits 
more opportunity to find the bodies and 
inhabit them before they decay beyond 
use. 

4. Vinjarek, the great wight of the 
Tombs of Deckon Thar, stands with the 
same stooped-over posture as his fol 
lowers. He wears a chain mail shirt that 
hangs in tatters and rags around him, but 
is still intact enough to give him his 


higher-than-normal armor class. He 
wears the crown of the people who bur 
ied the original bodies in these tombs. 
This is a gold and silver crown with many 
gems in it and is worth about 15,000 gp. 
The rest of his treasure is detailed in the 
adventure. 

Vinjarek prefers to sit alone in his 
throne room with about three messen 
gers to take his commands to the other 
wights. He uses these wights to carry his 
commands and get back reports as to 
what is happening. 

When there are no intruders in the val 
ley (the normal circumstance), he and his 
messengers sit in an immobile state, just 
aware enough to be able to detect the 
presence of arriving strangers. When they 
do get intruders, the throne room 
becomes a hive of activity (for wights) 
with messengers entering and leaving at 
all times with commands on how to 
arrange the wight defenders/attackers. 

When Vinjarek realizes he is confront 
ing a major force of adventurers who 
actually pose a threat to him, he will com 
mand the other wights to lead the player 
characters to him, and he will ready his 
defense, as delineated in the adventure 
description. 

Dam)eK) NuRew the 
Sb x&ovo MasTeRs 

DescnipTos) 

Damien Nuren is in his 40s, a slender 
human of medium height. His piercing 
gray eyes are deep set, and his long black 
hair is touched with gray at the temples. 
Urbane and scholarly, Damien often 
presents himself as a gentleman, an alche 
mist, or a doctor of philosophy. Though 
perfectly qualified to carry out any of 
those poses, he is actually a wizard who 
divides his time between the creation of 
new magical devices and interplanar 
exploration. 

Damien is knowledgeable and self- 
confident enough to tackle the riskiest of 
magical researches completely alone. In 
spite of this, he is cowardly when it comes 
to personal risk in dangerous places. The 
wizard is secretive about his findings and 
is an expert at double talk. Out of choice, 
he spends little time in the company of 


humans and has few scruples in his deal 
ings with them. Damien is self-centered 
and concerned only with furthering his 
personal interests. He has amassed con 
siderable wealth, but it is kept in his resi 
dence on another plane. (See 
"Encounters".) 

SXaTsTcs 


Damien Nuren (eighth-level 
magic-user): AC 8; MV 12"; HD 8; hp 
28; # AT 1; Dmg ld6 +2; AL NE; XP 
2,400; ST 13; IN 18; WS 10; DX 12; CN 
10; CH 14. 

Spells: charm person, feather fall, 
light, protection from good, knock x2, 
wizard lock x2, dispel magic x2, fly, 
lightning bolt, confusion, dimension 
door, fear, wizard eye, hold monster, 
teleportation, wall of force, globe of 
invulnerability 

Damien wears a cloak of protection +2. 
He carries a walking stick that is actually a 
quarterstaff +2. He wears a ring of 
undead (shadow) control and an onyx 
ring of Negative Plane protection, which 
gives him the protection as the clerical 
spell of the same name. It has only 12 
charges remaining; one is used each time 
the wearer is attacked by a creature tied 
in any way to the Negative Energy Plane. 
Hence, it is also effective against crea 
tures using negative energy attacks on 
the Demi-Plane of Shadows (see "Creature 
Notes"). Damien's other valuables are at 
his residence on the Plane of Air. 

HIsTory 

In his younger days, Damien studied with 
a master who introduced him to the won 
ders of the Inner Planes. Loren taught his 
eager pupil the secrets of planar travel, 
and shared some of his researches into 
the Negative Energy Plane. Loren 
believed that the greatest power in the 
multiverse lay untapped in that plane, 
and he strove to discover a way to har 
ness those energies for his own ends. 

Damien agreed with his master, and 
worked closely beside him for years. 
Although not all of Loren's work and 
notebooks were intended for his student 
to read, Damien refused to let lack of per- 


79 













mission hinder his learning. Catching 
Damien at his unauthorized studies, 
Loren felt his greatest discoveries had 
been betrayed. Furious, Loren dismissed 
the errant mage. Damien refused to go, 
and, in the heat of the moment, murdered 
his master. 

Quickly reconciling himself to the "acci 
dent," Damien adopted Loren's research 
es for his own purposes. His brilliant 
mind saw unexplored avenues and likely 
connections that the older wizard had 
overlooked. Using Loren's resources and 
magical laboratory, Damien began his 
own researches into the nature of the 
Negative Energy Plane. He soon realized 
that no living person could hope to tap the 
awesome power of the energy planes. Yet 
almost as much power was embodied in 
the Demi-Plane of Shadow, composed of 
equal parts positive and negative energy, 
and his researches sought a way to tap 
into that power. 

Over time, Damien found it more 
advantageous to live on the Elemental 
Plane of Air, a convenient place from 
which to probe the elusive Demi-Plane of 
Shadow. Necessarily, much of the wiz 
ard's time is spent in the creation of spe 
cial purpose magical items intended to 
further his researches. He often travels to 
the Prime Material Plane to test these 
devices or to gather materials for their 
construction. 

EMCouwteRs 

Damien is encountered most often on the 
Ethereal Plane, the Elemental Plane of Air, 
or the Demi-Plane of Shadow. He explores 
and travels these planes frequently, main 
taining his primary residence on the Ele 
mental Plane of Air. His domain there is 
guarded by ildriss, an invisible stalker, 
and a djinn in servitude. 

When Damien is encountered on the 
Prime Material Plane, it is almost always 
when he is collecting materials for magi 
cal research or conducting a field test of 
something he has created. Since most of 
his tests have to do with the Demi-Plane of 
Shadow, he looks for the presence of 
undead shadows, one indicator that the 
demi-plane may be close to a particular 
Prime Material location. As a conse 
quence, he often conducts his field tests 


in such locations, and is sometimes guard 
ed or accompanied by undead shadows. 
Damien sometimes hires adventurers to 
gather materials that he needs, or may get 
characters to test a new device without 
telling them the full truth about its nature 
or purpose. 

When Damien wants to leave the Prime 
Material Plane, he teleports to the secret 
location of a permanent wormhole into 
the Plane of Air. From there it is a simple 
matter for him to travel to other Inner 
Planes. Anyone touching the magic-user 
may be drawn with him into the worm- 
hole and onto the Plane of Air. 

Recently, Damien has felt he is on the 
verge of a great breakthrough. His stays 
on the Demi-Plane of Shadow have been 
difficult, dangerous, and of short dura 
tion. He knows his research would prog 
ress better if he was, for all intents and 
purposes, a native of the Demi-Plane of 
Shadow. He has built a device which 
should achieve this effect. Now, he only 
needs to find some expendable persons to 
test it.. . 

HsssTak the GReaTeR 
Mummy 

The greater mummy is not just a more 
deadly version of the creature commonly 
known as a mummy, it is a mummy who 
has chosen to undergo the mummifica 
tion process, in which the victim's body 
dies, but the soul does not. Through its 
choice, the greater mummy retains much 
of the power it had in life, including the 
ability to cast spells (clerical, magic-user, 
or illusionist, depending on the mummy's 
former class). It may cast spells like a liv 
ing being, but spell use is limited to 
seventh-level ability. 

Of all greater mummies encountered, 
80% will be spell-casters. Of those, 50% 
are former evil clerics, 45% are magic- 
users, and 5% are illusionists. The greater 
mummy also retains most, if not all, its 
former intelligence. It tends to be a think 
er and a schemer, not a mindless fighting 
machine. 

While the lesser mummy fears fires, the 
greater mummy has been enchanted to 
resist fire (as the ring). Like the lesser 
mummy, the mere sight of a greater 
mummy within 6" causes fear in the 


viewer and, unless a saving throw vs. 
spells is made, the PC is paralyzed with 
fright for ld4 rounds. Numerous allies 
give PCs courage when confronting a 
mummy. For each ally above a 6:1 ratio to 
the mummy, non-humans gain a + 1 to 
their saving roll, while humans gain a + 2. 

The greater mummy can only be struck 
by magical weapons, and even those do 
but Vi normal damage, with all fractions 
rounded down (a 5 becomes 2, a 3 
becomes 1, and so on). Sleep, charm, hold, 
and all cold-based spells have no effect on 
the greater mummy, and neither does poi 
son or paralysis. A raise dead spell will 
turn the mummy into a normal human 
(though it has a saving throw against the 
spell) of its former character class, at up 
to seventh-level ability. 

Holy water which strikes a mummy 
does 2d4 points of damage for each full 
vial. The touch of a greater mummy 
infects a victim with a rotting disease, 
which is fatal in ld6 months. For each 
month the disease progresses, the victim 
permanently loses 2 points of Charisma, 
as infected body parts rot and slough off 
the body. The deadly disease can only be 
cured permanently by the casting of a 
cure disease spell after the victim has 
imbibed an herbal tea made of 
mothersleaf, a healing plant. The disease 
negates all cure wounds spells and infect 
ed creatures heal wounds at 10% or the 
normal rate. Any creature killed by a 
greater mummy rots and cannot be 
raised from death unless cure disease and 
raise dead spells are used within 6 turns. 

HsssTfaak as Hjroself 
(UzakS Mato) 

(Pronounced Eeesss-TAK) 

Hsssthak (greater mummy): AC 0; 

MV 6"; HD 7+3; hp 55; # AT 1; Dmg 
ldl2; SA fear, disease, spell use; SD fire 
resistant, and immune to sleep, charm, 
and all cold-based attacks; AL LE; XP 
1200 . 

Spells: Level 1 - charm person x2, 
magic missile, sleep; Level 2 - flaming 
sphere, darkness 15' radius; ray of 
enfeeblement; Level 3 - haste, hold 
person; Level 4 - minor globe of invul 
nerability. 


80 













Surrounded by dusty carvings of beasts 
no man has seen, Hsssthak of ancient 
Isstosseffiil broods upon his ebony 
throne, in an airless hall deep beneath the 
mighty desert. Across the eons he has 
rested here, but he has found no peace. 
He dreams dark visions of an age when 
his people ruled, practicing mighty sor 
cery, creating exotic new life forms, and 
forever battling both the winged folk of 
the Aearee and wretched wet-skinned 
batrachi. 

Of the Isstossef, only Hsssthak now 
remains, his dry, withered features bare 
ly hinting at the lost glory of his reptilian 
race. Someone taking a quick glance at 
him would identify him as human, yet his 
taut snake-like skin, dry, bony tail, and 
distorted features categorize him other 
wise. 

The time of the creator races was wan 
ing, the dinosaurs dying out and being 
replaced by other creatures more able to 
withstand the new, colder climate. Seers 
among the reptilian creator race felt that 
a time might come when the lizard folk 
would need help to reclaim their rightful 
place in the world. Hsssthak, once a noted 
sorcerer among his reptilian people, will 
ingly allowed himself to be mummified in 
order to protect part of the heritage of his 
race - the ability to magically modify oth 
er creatures. Hsssthak patiently awaits 
the day when the descendants of his 
ancient race will come seeking the golden 
spell scrolls that he guards. 

Roleplav)K>5 Hsssthak 

Hsssthak has sat upon his dark throne for 
countless years (possibly millions). He is 
aware of much of what goes in the outer 
world through the use of his magical mir 
ror of sight and sound (which functions 
exactly like a crystal ball with clairaudi- 
ence). He can speak haltingly in most 
modern languages. 

He is aware of activity in the outer crypt 
areas, and will prepare himself accord 
ingly, depending on whether or not the 
intruders are reptilian or humans and 
demi-humans. 

Hsssthak is patient and does not act 
hastily. He has had eons to prepare for the 
meeting with his descendants. If the 
intruders are lizard men, he will give 


them the two golden scrolls (containing 
awaken intelligence and alter beast; see 
"Mummy Lair") to aid them in their 
return to power. If the intruders are 
humans or demi-humans, he will seek to 
charm them into doing his bidding, and if 
that fails, then geas them using a scroll 
spell (with a 25% chance of failure). 

Even though he has watched their prog 
ress over the ages, Hsssthak considers all 
non-reptilians to be little more than 
beasts. 

JOhJAThAKI 
MoRKj)Kjgm)sT the 
GReaTeR Vamp)Re 

Jonathon Morningmist (greater 
vampire): AC 0; MV 12"/18"; HD 10; 
hp 67; # AT 1; Dmg 2d6; SA energy 
drain; SD + 1 or better weapons to hit, 
regenerates 3 hp per round; AL LG; 
Size M; XP 2,438. 


Jonathon stands 5'10" and has a slightly 
ruddy complexion. He is strikingly hand 
some. He has shoulder-length silver hair 
and piercing violet eyes. He is an 
extremely kind man who frequently takes 
in beggars or other misfortunates for the 
evening. He is quick to champion a cause, 
aiding people (in the evening, of course). 

He will occasionally charm Evil female 
thieves and use them as barmaids, hoping 
continued exposure to him will change 
their ways. He possesses a djinn ring, 
which creates "nutritious" food for him. 
However, when his "hunger" for blood 
becomes too great, a few of his closest 
friends willingly share some of theirs. He 
is extremely careful to not hurt his 
friends. 

His magic items include the mirror in 
the Blue Dolphin, which shows his reflec 
tion, a large bag of holding, the djinn ring, 
+ 3 long sword, ring of spell turning, 
cloak of the bat, and the + 3 shield he is 
offering as a reward. His wealth is stored 
in his room above the Blue Dolphin and 
consists of 5,800 gp worth of gems, 10,000 
gp worth of jewelry, 50 pp, 120 gp, and 
2,000 sp. 


JeReroUb 
MoRK))Kjgm)sT the 
LesseR Vamp)Re 

Jeremiah Morningmist: AC 1; MV 

12"/18"; HD 8+3; hp 67; # AT 1; Dmg 
ld4+6; SA energy drain and spells; SD 
+1 or better weapons to hit, regener 
ates 3 hp per round; AL CE; Size M; XP 
1,804. r r 


Jeremiah stands 5'10" tall, and 
although he has a very, very pale com 
plexion, he is strikingly handsome. He has 
shoulder-length silver hair. 

Jeremiah is Evil incarnate, killing on a 
whim and treating others with as little 
regard as inhumanly possible. He strives 
to gain more power and wealth, caring lit 
tle for anything else. 

Jeremiah's magic items include dust of 
sneezing and choking, ring of water walk 
ing, small bag of holding, ring of spell 
turning, + 3 staff cloak of the bat, and 
dust of disappearance (three uses). 

Jeremiah, a 12th-level magic-user, has 
memorized the following spells: first-level 
- magic missile x2, ventriloquism, hold 
portal; second-level - darkness 15' radi 
us, web, stinking cloud, mirror image; 
third-level - lighting bolt, protection 
from good 10' radius, hold person, slow; 
fourth-level - ice storm, confusion, 
Rary's mnemonic enhancer (3 magic mis 
sile spells); fifth-level - cone of cold, 
transmute rock to mud, transmute mud 
to rock. 

If Jeremiah is aware of the PCs' pres 
ence, he will cast hold person. He'll also 
use transmute rock to mud and trans 
mute mud to rock to attempt to capture 
the PCs with the stone floor. 

If Jeremiah is turned, he will become 
gaseous, only to later come upon the par 
ty from behind. Jeremiah is relentless and 
will not let the party escape unscathed. 
However, Jeremiah will not fight to the 
death. If he truly believes he is losing the 
battle, he will flee. 

If Jeremiah is slain, and the PCs bring 
some proof of their deed to the mer 
chants' guild and to Jonathon, they will be 
rewarded. The PCs may have an interest 
ing time confronting Jonathon with the 
look-alike vampire. Jonathon will dismiss 


81 











it as coincidence or an attempt by some 
devil to impersonate him. If the PCs per 
sist, and Jonathon believes them to be 
honorable and Good individuals, he will 
reveal the tale of the two vampires and 
will explain about the helmet, which has 
forever made him Lawful Good. 

hOeRowynnous Bosco 
the Ghost W)zar£> 


Hieronymous Bosco (ghost wiz 
ard): AC 0/8; MV 9"; HD 19; hp 60; # 
AT 1; Dmg Id4xl0 years; SA magician 
fear; SD silver or magic weapoon need 
ed to hit; AL LE; XP 4,090 


Hieronymous Bosco was born in Thay 
to parents both schooled in the ways of 
sorcery. From a young age, he was 
tutored in the ways of magic, but his 
career as a successor to his parents as a 
member of the Red Wizards was encum 
bered by the fact he in no way possessed 
their degree of intellectual brilliance. 
Nevertheless, Hieronymous proved him 
self to be at least an average mage, show 
ing a particular interest in necromancy 
and the occult. Upon his mother's death, 
his father, dissatisfied with his son's apti 
tude, cast the young mage out, and 
Hieronymous took to wandering the 
Realms, hiring himself out to various 
nobles, and even a bandit group or two, 
as a wizard. 

Invariably, his employers would find 
the mage lazy, untrustworthy, and lack 
ing the skills of sorcery that did not some 
how relate to death or necromancy. This 
wasted life continued for a number of 
decades until the mage found himself in 
the employ of Sir John Ampner, a noble 
man seeking a wizard for his estate. Now 
in his 50s, and anxious to find a perma 
nent position somewhere, Hiernonymous 
did his best to put on a good act, convinc 
ing Sir John he was an honorable, skilled 
mage. Seeing through his facade from the 
beginning was Brother Frederick, Sir 
John's resident cleric. The old priest 
investigated the backgound of the mage, 
discovering his past misdeeds, and the 
fact he was known to be a practitioner of 
the black arts who was wanted for a num 
ber of crimes. 


Angered at having been lied to. Sir John 
intended to denounce the mage and hand 
him over to the local authorities. But 
Hieronymous learned of this, and with 
the help of a disreputable stable hand, 
arranged for the death of his employer 
while Brother Frederick was absent. The 
estate then passed into the hands of Lady 
Samantha, Sir John's daughter. 

Lacking the funds to manage the estate 
(which the mage had stolen and hidden). 
Lady Samantha was forced to accept the 
wizard's offer to fund the manor's contin 
ued operation in return for being allowed 
to stay on as seneschal. Brother Frederick 
eventually returned, confronting the wiz 
ard, and was slain in his own chapel. With 
no one left to oppose him, the mage now 
forced his attentions on Fady Samantha, 
hoping to wed her. Defiantly, she spurned 
him, and was locked in a tower, where 
she starved to death. The mage then 
spread the tale she had sold the manor to 
him and departed. Not long afterward, 
Hieronymous met his own end at the 
hands of an ambitious apprentice. 
Although buried elsewhere, his spirit was 
cursed to haunt the manor where he had 
caused so much trouble to so many. 

the WlzAtzb 

Hieronymous hates the living for the tor 
ment of unrest he endures. The manor 
house in which he brought misery to 
those around him is now his prison - and 
he seeks to leave it. Toward that end, the 
presence of a group of adventurers or 
plunderers might well give him the 
opportunity he needs. So great is his 
hatred of the living, though, and so large 
his ego and domineering his personality, 
that the mage will not content himself 
with merely possessing a host and then 
seeking egress. He will instead first fright 
en and harass the living by playing tricks 
and possessing objects. The whole idea is 
to sustain the tension amongst his ene 
mies as much as possible. Only when he 
tires of the game, or the group comes too 
near the room in which he died, will 
things suddenly become lethal, with the 
ghost seeking to possess a PC wizard in 
order to use sorcery against the 
intruders. Failing that, he will physically 
attack his enemies, hoping to rob them of 


the life he now is denied. In life, the wiz 
ard was tall, muscular, and bald, with a 
Vandyke beard. In death, he barely 
resembles a former human, his features 
now being distorted and grotesque. Car 
rying the spiritual chains he forged in life, 
the evil spirit of the mage is slow-moving 
- but deadly. 

TAhjomtsu Mitsuno 

the Sam ura) SpeetRe 

DescrVipTioto 

In life, Mitsuro was the samurai general 
commanding part of the forces which 
fought - and lost - the Hojo War in Koza- 
kura. A stern and humorless man, Mit 
suro prided himself on his practicality 
and ruthlessness in accomplishing his 
ambitions. 

In death, the spectre of Tanomitsu Mit 
suro is much the same. He is calculating 
and ruthless, and continues to harbor 
great ambitions. His undead hatred for 
the living is surpassed only by his hatred 
for the enemies of the Tanomitsu clan. 
Never an idle man, the spectre Mitsuro is 
obsessed with his plan to destroy enemies 
of his house and restore the Tanomitsu 
clan to fortune and power. 

STaTisTics 


Tanomitsu Mitsuro (spectre): AC 

2; MV 15"/30"; HD 7+3; hp 45; # AT 1; 
Dmg ld8; SA drains 2 levels per touch, 
victim becomes half-strength spectre 
under Mitsuro's control; SD immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, cold-based spells, 
paralyzation or poison, +1 or better 
weapons to hit; AL LE; XP 2,100. 


Mitsuro is powerless in daylight and can 
be destroyed if a raise dead spell is cast on 
him (saving throw vs. magic allowed). Holy 
water inflicts 2d4 points of damage. 

Although he was an accomplished samu 
rai when he was alive, those skills have no 
effect on the spectre's fighting abilities. 

H) sTory 

Tanomitsu Mitsuro was one of Hojo Toda- 
hiro's generals in the Hojo War. Head of 
the powerful Tanomitsu clan, Mitsuro's 


82 













clan was one of the most influential sup 
porters of the shogun and was in great 
favor. 

During the battle of Norinoshima, 
which was ultimately lost by Todahiro's 
forces. General Tanomitsu and his per 
sonal retainers were cut off from the bat 
tle by an ambush. Recognizing that 
Todahiro forces faced defeat, Tanomitsu 
Mitsuro fled to Okane Province to defend 
his family at Ezuwara Castle. 

Knowing the battle was virtually won 
and not wishing to let the general escape, 
Yamashita Ichiro and his troops pursued 
the Tanomitsu party closely. Yamashita 
took the town of Ezuwara before the gen 
eral could prepare a defense, then con 
fronted Tanomitsu in his castle. 

Yamashita demanded his surrender, but 
the general refused. Unwilling to conduct 
a long siege and scornful of Tanomitsu's 
"cowardly desertion," Yamashita had his 
troops fire the castle with arrows. It 
burned to the ground, destroying all 
within. Ezuwara Castle and the surround 
ing town were later given to Yamashita 
Ichiro as a reward for his services to the 
Takenaka clan during the Hojo War. 

The Tanomitsu clan was perhaps the 
greatest loser of all after the Hojo War. 
These longtime supporters of Hojo Toda 
hiro lost their lands and estates, and most 
of their numbers were executed or 
forced to flee to distant provinces to pre 
serve their lives. The Tanomitsu clan has 
sunk into obscurity, and is a dangerous 
name to use in Kozakura today. 

These wrongs have not gone unnoticed 
by the spectral Mitsuro. His hatred burns 
against those who used his kin so poorly. 
He is particularly vengeful toward the 
Yamashita and Takenaka clans, the two 
most responsible for the destruction of 
the Tanomitsu. 

Tanomitsu Mitsuro's remains lie under 
the castle foundation in a secret passage 
way, along with those of this daughter 
Isui and his cousin Tamako (see adventure 
elsewhere in this book). The spectres 
haunt Ezuwara Castile, which is now a 
fief of the hated Yamashita clan. Obuno, 
the son of Lord Yamashita, lives in the 
rebuilt castle; he and his family have 
become the first targets of Mitsuro's spec 
tral revenge. 


EKtcouhoT&izs 

One encounter with Mitsuro is detailed 
elsewhere in this book, as he and his fel 
low spectres try to destroy the Yamashita 
inhabitants of Ezuwara Castle. However, 
the death of these few Yamashita is by no 
means the limit of Mitsuro's ambitions. 
Either before or after that adventure 
takes place, Mitsuro may be encountered 
elsewhere, putting his grand plan into 
action. 

It is Mitsuro's ambition to create a spec 
tral army, which he will eventually lead 
on a mission of death and destruction 
against all who have hurt the Tanomitsu 
clan since their defeat in the Hojo War. His 
favorite "recruits" for his spectral army 
are bushi and samurai, although he will 
take anyone he can get his hands on. Nor 
is he particular about what clan they 
come from; Mitsuro considers it a good 
joke to recruit spectres from among his 
enemies, since they are destined to slay 
their living relatives. 

Mitsuro likes to do this business him 
self, since the half-strength spectres that 
result are then under his direct control. 
While Isui and Tamako remain near Ezu 
wara Castle, Mitsuro ranges about the 
countryside, sometimes traveling quite 
far away. He singles out a likely prospect 
for his spectral army, then attacks and 
drains the life from his victim. 

Mitsuro orders the resulting spectre to 
stay where he was created, since Mitsuro 
does not want to tip his hand by letting his 
spectral army collect prematurely at Ezu 
wara Castle. Needless to say, there are a 
growing number of half-strength spec 
tres floating about the countryside - all 
awaiting the call to Mitsuro's service, and 
in the meantime hating and preying on 
the living around them. 

Mitsuro's half-strength spectres might 
be encountered anywhere. The general 
himself is encountered if he singles out a 
PC as an attractive prospect for his spec 
tral army. Mitsuro is clever, and does not 
usually attack individuals in company. He 
will wait until he can get the PC alone, and 
then go after him or her when the victim 
cannot readily be helped by the others. 


ALokka)R the 
W)zaRd-IC)K)g 


Alokkair (lich, 20th-level magic- 
user in life): AC 0; MV 12"; HD 20; hp 
76; # AT 1; Dmg special; SA "Chilling 
touch" for ldlO hp damage plus paral 
ysis (lasts 2d4xl0 rounds; save vs. 
paralysis to avoid); SD Immune to 
charm, sleep, enfeeblement, poly 
morph cold, electricity, insanity, death 
spellls/symbols and attack forms; AL 
CE; XP 8,780; ST 16; IN 18; WI 17; DX 
17; CO 15; CH 12. 

Spells: DM's choice, M-U spells 

5,5,5,5,5,4,3,3,2 

Note: Alokkair's phylactery is not in 
his lair, but hidden elsewhere. 


Description: Alokkair is a very tall 
(6'8") thin male human lich, with a long, 
flowing white beard and long, wispy 
white hair. His skin is a putrid gray, but 
otherwise whole, and has shrunken to 
wrap his bones closely, so that he appears 
horribly gaunt. Except for glowing eyes in 
skeletal sockets, his face appears almost 
normal for a living man. His limbs, how 
ever, are nearly skeletal. He wears long, 
flowing robes of purple silk and thick 
gray musterdelvys, which are frayed and 
stained with mildew around the trailing 
edges, but otherwise whole and splendid. 
He remains supple and agile. 

Personality: Alokkair is brilliant, a 
cold and sarcastic being who anticipates 
attacks and stratagems with cunning, 
paranoid ease. He is driven by his greed 
for magic, which he constantly must 
acquire. One day soon he intends to 
reclaim his long-lost kingdom, Hlontar 
(which lay in and around the valley of the 
Tesh some 800 years ago) with the aid of 
the drow who dwell deep underground 
in the area. 

Alokkair is persuasive and eloquent, and 
enjoys a good debate. He cares nothing for 
the life or existence of any creature but 
himself, and will often magically attack 
someone he is in the midst of joking with, 
without hesitation or change in expression. 

Behavior: Alokkair appears courtly 
and friendly to intruders, unless they 
attack him forthwith. He appears sad 
dened by threats of violence, and asks 


83 











only to be left alone. If the traps and hid 
den ways of his lair isolate one or two 
adventurers from the rest, he appears to 
them, makes them rich gifts of gold, jew 
elry, and gems from his hoard (never 
magic), showing them many more riches 
in the process. He then teleports these 
survivors out, to draw further intruders 
later. 

The DM could use a fortunate NPC 
adventurer to whom this happened as a 
setup, showing the gold and telling his or 
her tale in a nearby village (Voonlar or 
Tilverton, if the FORGOTTEN REALMS(tm) 
campaign setting is used). The fortunate 
adventurer should be too powerful and 
wrongly aligned for PCs to simply rob or 
slay - and very worried as to the fate of 
his companions, a stout band of adventur 
ers who set off to find this kindly, obvious 
ly deranged old lich and get the rest of his 
treasure. They have not been heard from 
since, and 14 days have passed. They may 
stand in need of a rescue. 

Spells: The spells Alokkair is carrying 
when encountered are listed below. 
Those marked with an asterisk are "per 
manent" and require no study to be 
regained by the lich. In the case of multi 
ple permanent spells carried, only one 
(e.g. one of the four magic missiles) is 
actually permanent. 

First level: Magic missile* x4 (each 
spell produces 10 ld4 + 1 hp missiles), 
jump. 

Second level: Darkness 15' radius, 
ESP, invisibility*, mirror image, wizard 

lock. 

Third level: Dispel magic* x3, light 
ning bolt, slow 

Fourth level: Confusion, dimension 
door, ice storm, minor globe of invulnera 
bility, wizard eye*. 

Fifth level: Animate dead, cone of 
cold, feeblemind, hold monster, teleport*. 

Sixth level: Chain lightning, death 
spell, flesh to stone x2. 

Seventh level: Delayed blast fireball, 
phase door, reverse gravity. 

Eighth level : Maze, mind blank, 
Otto's irresistible dance. 

Ninth level: Imprisonment, temporal 
stasis. 

Carried magic: Alokkair carries 
three vocalize scrolls. He reads one just 
before any encounter, if possible. He also 


has scrolls of permanency, demand, and 
prismatic sphere at his belt. 

Alokkair wears a ring of free action and 
a ring of spell turning, both of which 
function as they would on a living human. 
Like all liches, Alokkair can make use of 
any magical item a magic-user could, 
except those that specifically require the 
touch of a living being. 

Cached magic: Alokkair has some 
scrolls and items hidden with his phylac 
tery, far away. The DM should determine 
the cache. 

His spell books are in his lair. They con 
tain all the spells given here, plus read 
magic, slow, magic jar, Nulathoe's Nine- 
men, enchant an item, project image, 
polymorph any object, trap the soul, and 
energy drain, as well as 4d4 additional 
spells of each level (at the DM's option). 
They are hidden in an invisible, floating 
sphere of force, which also contains two 
guardian creatures: female human juju 
zombies, Delartha and Ilmeera (once 
Alokkair's daughters). 


Juju zombies (2); AC 6; MV 9"; HD 
3+12; hp 30, 29; # AT 1 (as 6HD mon 
ster); Dmg 3d4; SD can only be hit by 
+1 or better magical weapons; XP 180 
each. 


Refer to MONSTER MANUAL II for the 
immunities of these creatures. 

Background: Eight hundred winters 
ago in the Realms, men farmed and herd 
ed sheep on the fertile banks of the river 
Tesh at the western end of the Moonsea. 
Local lords arose, their patrols defending 
the land against ore attacks, and the 
farmers prospered. 

The 16th-level mage Alokkair came out 
of the west at this time, and befriended a 
minor lord, Hlonagh. With his magical 
aid, Hlonagh viciously defeated lord after 
lord until the kingdom of Hlontar was 
founded. Alokkair "the Wise" became its 
court wizard, and soon slew Hlonagh to 
take the throne. 

Alokkair the Wizard-King quickly 
became known for his ruthlessness. 
Hlonagh's kin and friends, and any magic- 
user reaching fifth level, were hunted 
down and slain. Alokkair took to wife 
Hlonagh's youngest daughter, Shalaera, 
overcoming her hatred and resistance by 


force and art. When she gave him only 
daughters, he changed her into the form 
of a red dragon, and by art drove her to 
attack nearby elves, who slew her with 
arrows. 

Alokkair's fearful subjects attacked him 
repeatedly. One night his three daughters 
tried to kill him. Enraged, Alokkair slew 
two by energy drain spells. They became 
juju zombies under his control. The 
youngest, Alaphlame, was either vapor 
ized or escaped by magic. Alokkair fled to 
his lair, underneath far-off Fox Ridge, 
where he gathers magic and vows to 
regain his kingdom. 


84 












A MUNDANE GUIDE TO WARDS 


Through graveyard and ruined city/ 
Beneath a moon pretty/Went the brave war 
riors of the Black Roan/They swung sword 
and hammer/But lacked priestly glamour/ 
And against the undead they went down-a- 
down-oh! -From an old adventurers' 
song (tune: "Molly Malone") 

Even farmers in the Realms know what to 
do when you see an undead thing - and 
survive. Run, don't walk, to a cleric. Clerics 
battle undead, where others cannot. But 
what if no cleric is at hand? Or if the local 
friar turns white and trembles at the 
breathless news and hides beneath the 
altar? 

Old veterans of all races have all sorts of 
advice as to how to fight undead. Bardic bal 
lads and old lore abound with suggestions, 
wild (and tall!) accounts of adventures, and 
sure-fire tactics . . . but what is true, and 
what is false? 

If one's information is wrong when one 
faces a swooping vampire, there'll be no 
going back to town to tell everyone so. One 
usually only gets one chance. So, here's a 
guide to what does and doesn't work when 
the living must deal with the undead. Play 
ers should allow DMs to reveal as much of 
this section as is deemed right for a given 
campaign, and resist the urge to read all. 
(Besides, who can tell what a fiendish DM 
may have altered, to "reward" just such 
deceitful snooping?) 

The information that follows is divided 
into handy subsections for DM reference. A 
DM should read through this section before 
play begins, to find where everything is and 
what we've used as headings. Any questions 
that arise when reading these pages should 
be written down, and the DM should decide 
on answers before players are neck-deep in 
battle and arguments begin. The written 
answers and notes should be kept with this 
rulebook; consistent rulings are more 
important than fully detailed or accurate 
rules or guidelines in a campaign where 
roleplaying is stressed. 

Cobb Iron) 

"Cold iron" is iron that has not been deliber 
ately alloyed with other metals, or treated 
to become steel (although it can be, and usu 
ally is, impure). Weapons of cold iron are 
brittle when cold, and dull easily; they are 
not favored by warriors having to deal with 
other armed opponents, whose weapons 
often shatter those of cold iron on contact. 

Cold iron does, however, do ghasts double 


damage, and a protection from evil spell cir 
cle adorned with iron (iron filings, a hoop of 
iron, or iron weapons laid, touching, to 
form an unbroken ring 3' in diameter) 
keeps ghasts at bay. The iron will be con 
sumed in the spell-casting, but its protection 
will move with the protected creature, pre 
venting any ghasts from approaching with 
in one' of the protected creature. 

Cold iron also does double damage to 
ghouls, and its presence will cause shadows 
to recoil for ld2 rounds at an initial encoun 
ter, although it does not actually harm 
them. A ghost confronted by cold iron will 
recoil (hanging back or becoming ethereal) 
for ld2 rounds in an encounter, but is not 
harmed by contact with cold iron. Other 
undead are not reported to be specially 
affected by cold iron. 

CuRe Disease 

Unlike lycanthropy, undeath is not a dis 
ease. Undead cannot be harmed by a cure 
disease spell, but such a spell does affect dis 
eases carried by undead. (Note that ghoul- 
touch paralysis is not a disease.) 

An undead upon which cure disease has 
been cast cannot confer rot grubs, para 
sites, leprosy, or other diseases to creatures 
they strike. A mummy cannot rot victims or 
confer a rotting disease by its touch. This 
protection against disease affects all undead 
(unless they can by spell or item cast dispel 
magic to remove it) for one turn per level of 
the spell-caster employing the cure. (Scrolls 
function as if the spell was cast at a level as 
determined on page 128 of the DMG.) Para 
sites and rot grubs within an undead are not 
slain by a cure disease, only rendered inac 
tive and ineffective for a time, as noted 
above. 

f)ne vs. Uwdead 

Fire is effective against all undead, doing 
the same damage to them in undeath as it 
did in life. (A fire-using draco-lich would 
take less damage from a given flame than a 
dracolich that had been a non-fire-using 
dragon.) Mummified undead and very old, 
desiccated liches and zombies, are especial 
ly susceptible to fire (a torch blow causing 
ld3 hp damage, a flask of burning oil ld8 hp 
on the round it strikes and a further 2d8 
points on the round that follows). 

Less known to most adventurers in the 
Realms is the fact that intangible or gaseous 
(non-corporeal) undead such as shadows 
and wraiths, and vampires when in gaseous 


form, suffer double damage from all fiery 
attacks - that is, double what the attack 
would have done the undead's living coun 
terpart. 

In all cases, magical fires are at + 1 per die 
of damage against undead. Fire and intense 
heat both seem to adversely affect the con 
nection between the Negative (or Positive) 
Material Plane and the Prime Material Plane 
that exists in all greater undead, as well as 
doing purely physical damage. Rumors of 
"fire ghosts" or "fire spirits" are based on 
undead who can, by electrical discharge or 
fiery attacks, cause other substances to 
burn, and on non-undead creatures such as 
firebats and will-o'-wisps that are thought 
by some to be associated with, or to be, 
undead. 

GarIIc 

This strong spice in powdered form, bud, or 
intact plant has an odor that is offensive to 
vampires. It does not harm or permanently 
repel them, but causes them to hesitate for 
ld4 rounds before attacking. Garlic butter 
smeared on creatures or doorways, or liq 
uid garlic - cooked into oil in a high concen 
tration - sprayed or splashed on beings or 
areas will cause similar hesitation. Such 
applications of garlic will be effective for 
two days. On the third day, the waning 
power of the garlic will cause only a one 
round of hesitation, and thereafter the gar 
lic will have evaporated and dissipated to 
such an extent that it will be completely 
ineffective. This is a chemical effect, and 
cannot be extended or made permanent by 
magical means short of a limited wish. 

Garlic seems to be effective only against 
vampires. The sage Aldiver, who has made a 
study of such matters, believes that its 
effectiveness is due to two factors: a strong 
chemical revulsion, and an instinctively per 
ceived peril to the gaseous form of the vam 
pire, with which the garlic reacts. This 
reaction slows the changeover between 
solid and gaseous form to a two-round proc 
ess, during which time the vampire is vul 
nerable to all attacks, i.e. normal weapons 
as well as magical ones. In order to be 
affected, the vampire must be within 4" of 
the garlic or been exposed to it in the last 14 
rounds. A vampire knows garlic is some 
how dangerous to it, even if it has never 
encountered garlic before. 

GesXuK.es 

Without divine favor (clerical turning) or 


85 








magical powers (spell-casting) to back them 
up, threatening or warding gestures against 
undead are just that: gestures. Undead can 
not be frightened or tricked by such - and 
may well be amused. More than one tale is 
told in taverns of the Realms of spectres or 
skeletons who mockingly mimicked the ges 
tures of a terrified adventurer before slay 
ing the unfortunate, or even pretended to 
dance or cast spells back at future victims. 
As the adventurer Gorstag once said, "Save 
your breath for running." 

Hoiy Symbols 

The holy symbols borne by clerics and by 
the most devout lay worshippers may take 
the form of scepter-like held objects, pen 
dants, or even flat, two-dimensional images 
graven or painted on shields, vestments, 
coffers, and the like. In all cases, such 
images must have been properly conse 
crated (a magical process, details of which 
are left to DMs) by a cleric of at least third 
level in order to function as holy symbols. 
The mere image, even if perfectly depicted, 
will not suffice. 

A holy symbol is required for turning, 
destroying or damning, or (for evil clerics) 
compelling undead to service. Any attempt 
to turn undead without a holy symbol will 
automatically fail, with one exception: cler 
ics of ninth level or greater, and paladins of 
11th level or greater, can attempt to do so. 
When doing so, they function as clerics of 
only third level, i.e., they cannot destroy or 
command undead, or automatically turn 
any undead. Paladins can never successful 
ly use the holy symbol of another deity in a 
turning attempt. Clerics using the holy sym 
bol of another deity (a serious matter 
indeed) in a turning attempt, even one allied 
to, or identical in alignment to their own, 
function as clerics of six levels lower than 
they do with the holy symbols of their deity. 
If this results in a negative level, they cannot 
turn undead with that holy symbol. 

All undead except poltergeists, revenants, 
and penanggalan in full human form suffer 
"burning" damage from actual contact with 
a holy symbol, identical to the damage they 
suffer from a vial of holy water. This replac 
es any physical damage; a mace or cross 
bow bolt with a consecrated holy symbol on 
its business end does not deal both holy 
symbol damage and physical attack damage 
to an undead. 

This damage will occur regardless of 
what being wields or discharges the holy 


symbol as a weapon; class and alignment 
have no effect. Priesthoods and deities will 
take a somewhat dim view of adventuring 
bands of non-worshippers bearing their 
holy symbols as weapons, however. Clerics 
loaning holy symbols typically give them 
only to companions who worship the same 
deity as they do. Holy symbols "strike" 
intangible undead or undead normally 
struck only by silver or magical weapons, 
regardless of the composition of the holy 
symbol. 

The holy symbols of lawful good deities 
cause vampires to recoil, although the mere 
sight of such devices does not harm a vam 
pire in any way. Vampires of all alignments 
and faiths (in life) are affected by lawful 
good holy symbols, even if they have never 
seen them before. Why vampires - and of 
all undead, only vampires - are so affected 
by lawful good holy symbols remains a mys 
tery. 

Kwocklwg ok) Wood 

This has absolutely no effect on undead. A 
lich or vampire could conceivably be dis 
tracted if a character's rapping was mis 
taken for something else. Otherwise, this 
practice is a mistaken waste of time, danger 
ous if it attracts the attention of other mon 
sters. 

Light 

Many undead are affected by full, intense 
sunlight or magical effects which cause a 
bright. Positive Material Plane-like burst of 
radiant energy. DMs should refer to the 
druidic simray spell in UNEARTHED ARCA 
NA book, the sunburst of a wand of illumi 
nation, detailed in the DMG, and the 
sunstrike symbol detailed in this Mundane 
Guide when determining the precise effects 
of newly devised magical items and spells 
upon undead. One such spell, the sunburst, 
appears in the "Lords of Darkness" section 
of this book. Darkness, on the other hand, is 
normal for most undead. Its presence gives 
them no special benefits beyond surprise 
and concealed movement. 

As a general rule, light has the following 
effects on undead: 

Torchlight, lamplight, faerie fire, dancing 
lights, and light spells may irritate or annoy 
undead, drawing them to attack the light 
source, but have no harmful effects on 
undead. Moonlight and starglow have no 
effect on undead. 

Sudden or bright lights, such as that 


caused by a continual light spell or indirect 
sunlight entering the window of a ruined 
chamber or filtering down into a wooded 
glade, will cause ghosts, shadows, spectres, 
wights, wraiths, and vampires to recoil for 
ld3 rounds before attacking. Shadows can 
be seen 60% of the time in such light, and if 
the light source can be attacked (e.g. it is 
coming from a lamp or other item held or 
controlled by a creature), undead will seek 
to attack or extinguish it. (Undead not listed 
here are unaffected by light.) Note that a 
sun blade sword, as described in the 
UNEARTHED ARCANA book, can flare with 
a light equivalent to full sunlight. 

Full sunlight is hated and shunned by 
shadows who know they can be clearly 
seen, spectres, wights, wraiths, and vam 
pires. All draining attacks on energy or abil 
ities (e.g. the Strength drain of a shadow) 
fail to operate in full sunlight. Undead who 
exist on both the Negative Material and 
Prime Material planes also cannot do chill 
ing damage by touch. (Note that liches can 
still do chilling damage in sunlight.) Such 
undead cannot maintain control of half 
strength undead they may have created, 
have an Armor Class penalty of -2, and can 
be hit by all types of weapons. Ghosts in full 
sunlight are forced into a "semi-material" 
state until they can reach shade. A penang- 
galan's detached head and gut are paralyzed 
until nightfall. A sunstone talisman (see "Tal 
ismans") will cause ld3 rounds of paralysis 
to a penanggalan, but other bright lights 
have no effect. 

Undead of any sort cannot regenerate in 
full sunlight. They can change form at will if 
normally able to do so, but many move at V 2 
rate (see "Run! Run!"). This is what "power 
less" means to spectres, wraiths, and vam 
pires. 

Only vampires are actually slain by sun 
light. A vampire in full sun will instantly be 
forced to Vi movement rate, have an AC 
penalty, and lose all but purely physical 
attacks. It will be wracked with pain, visibly 
shuddering and snarling, and will seek 
darker areas at all costs, even exposing itself 
to attack to do so. It will suffer a loss of 10% 
of its current hit points per round or partial 
round of exposure, be unable to regenerate, 
and if brought to 0 hit points while in full 
sunlight will crumble forever into dust. 
(Vampire dust is a valuable chemical ingre 
dient.) 

It is stressed that the effects of sunlight on 
rare sorts of undead have not been fully 
explored due to the highly dangerous 


86 










nature of the necessary research. DMs 
should determine actual effects of sunlight 
on newly devised types of undead after the 
general guidelines given here. 

Mag)oal Items 

CowceRwed W'fTb 
Uwdead 

The AD&D(r) rulebooks describe many 
scrolls, rings, wands, and other artifacts 
and magical items useful in dealings with 
undead. These include the arrow of slaying 
undead, mace of disruption, protection 
from undead scroll, wand of illumination, 
amulet of life protection, scarab of protec 
tion, and other items described in the DMG 
book. 

The UNEARTHED ARCANA rulebook also 
contains undead-related magical items, 
such as the sun blade sword, protection 
from paralyzation scroll, amulet vs. 
undead, shadow lanthorn, and others. 

The FORGOTTEN REALMS(tm) sourcebooks 
also include items useful to beings dealing 
with undead. FR4, The Magister, contains 
the staff of skulls, wand of darkness, wand 
of Ochalor's eye, Mierest's starlit sphere, 
orb of holiness, trumpet of doom, and 
Nidus' wand of endless repetition. 

Three additional items appear here: the 
bone ring, the dark crown, and the hand of 
harrowing. 

Bone ring: This plain finger ring is always 
carved from human bone; the method of 
making such magical rings is secret, but 
they seem numerous. When worn, a bone 
ring prevents energy and strength drain 
from all sources (such as undead and hostile 
spells). Each such ring has from IdlOO 
charges; each attempted drain against 
which it protects exhausts one charge, until 
the ring crumbles to dust. The wearer is not 
made aware of how many charges a given 
bone ring has remaining. Bone rings are not 
rechargeable. 

gp value: 20,000 XP value: 4,000 
Dark crown: This magical circlet of metal 
is set with teeth and bones of various crea 
tures. It alters in size to fit any wearer, and 
may be removed freely. Despite its name, a 
dark crown is not Evil. It is a protective item 
conferring immunity to natural and magical 
fear, paralyzation, and petrification. The 
wearer cannot be magically aged as by a 
ghost, or harmed by chilling attacks such as 
the touch of a lich. The wearer of a dark 
crown receives a +4 bonus against all 


undead attacks for which saving throws are 
allowed. 

Once in every nine turns the wearer of a 
dark crown can disrupt undead as with a 
mace of disruption, by touch and act of will. 
A successful hit roll is required (i.e. a maxi 
mum of one undead creature can be affect 
ed), and the wearer of the crown is subject 
to any side-effects of such contact. If the 
attack misses or fails, the called-upon 
power of the crown is wasted, and the 
power is ineffective until nine more turns 
have passed. The wearer of a dark crown 
can see with 9" infravision and ultravision, 
and will always know undead normally visi 
ble (i.e. not concealed behind barriers or 
within closed coffins) for what they are. A 
crown-wearer looking at a skeleton lying in 
a casket can tell in an instant whether it is 
undead or just a normal skeleton. 

gp value: 20,000 XP value: 2,000 

Hand of harrowing: Creation of this mag 
ical item requires the severed hand of a 
human. It will be rendered steel-hard and 
inflexible (AC 0,16 hp damage to shatter) by 
its enchantment. It functions as follows: 
When released by a living creature, it will 
lie or levitate in midair in exactly the spot in 
which it was released, without regard to 
gravity, until it is touched by a living crea 
ture again. 

Its touch does undead creatures 3d4 
points of damage, and stuns them for ld4 
rounds. (See "Mirrors" in this section for 
effects of stunning on undead.) When 
placed on or against a door, archway, or 
threshold (a windowsill or drain opening), 
undead seeking to pass the guarded area in 
any direction or manner (including a ghost's 
ethereal means) suffer wracking pain. 
Undead creatures within 3" of a hand of 
harrowing are slowed to a movement rate 
of 1" per round, no saving throw allowed. 
Each round they are within active range of 
a hand, the undead must save vs. death 
magic or be forced 1" away from the hand. 
In addition, during each round they are 
within active range, all undead suffer 2d4 
damage (ld4 if they save vs. breath weap 
on). Hands of harrowing are typically used 
to guard tombs against plundering by hun 
gry ghouls or magic-seeking liches. 

Evilly aligned creatures suffer ld3 hp of 
damage per round of contact with a hand 
(or per blow, if one is used against them), 
but may place or wield such hands if they 
wish. No other creatures are affected by a 
hand of harrowing, except as a normal club 


bing weapon, doing ld2 points of damage. 
Hands are typically mounted on rods for 
ease of use. 

Ten percent of all hands of harrowing are 
evilly aligned, and affect good-aligned crea 
tures and not undead. 

gp value: 25,000 XP value: 2,000 

M )izizoizs 

Mirrors are effective only against appari 
tions and vampires, who will recoil from the 
reflective face of a mirror. Other undead 
are only affected by mirrors when they 
reflect bright light or sunlight, or are fash 
ioned of silver or cold iron and brandished 
as weapons. A vampire cannot charm itself 
by having its gaze reflected back at itself, 
nor can it charm any other undead under 
any circumstances. While the mirror is con 
fronting it, and the vampire is aware of the 
mirror's presence, it will not look at the eyes 
of other creatures, however situated. It will 
seek first to destroy or cover the mirror - 
because a vampire meeting its own gaze is 
stunned for ld2 rounds, and unable to 
charm with its gaze for ld6 +2 rounds. 

A vampire so stunned will reel, unable to 
launch or parry attacks or change form, 
and will suffer an armor class penalty of - 
1. Bat-form vampires can be affected just as 
human-form vampires are. Any being can 
wield a mirror against undead, not just a 
cleric. 

Apparitions are affected as follows: Roll 
ld26 On a result of 18-20, the apparition 
vanishes utterly, for a period of 2d4 turns. It 
is not destroyed, only driven elsewhere, out 
of any contact with the mirror-wielder and 
any companions. On a result of 13-17, the 
apparition is stunned (identical effect as for 
vampires, above) for ld4 + 1 rounds. On a 
result of 8-12, the apparition recoils (does 
not willingly approach within 2" of the mir 
ror wielder) for ld4 + 1 rounds. On a result 
of 6 or 7, the apparition recoils for one 
round. On a 1-5 result, the apparition is 
entirely unaffected. 

Apparitions and vampires can only ever 
be affected once per 666 turns by a given 
mirror, although multiple mirrors will have 
separate effects. If an undead is confronted 
with more than one mirror simultaneously, 
only the most severe effect occurs. Note 
that some light must be present for a mirror 
to be effective. 

An eye of fear and flame confronted with 
a mirror will hesitate for one round before 
unleashing any fireball from its red-gem 


87 









Movement Rates Table: 

Key to Table Abbreviations: 

A = Arm's length or adjacent 
DD = Double Damage 
E = Ethereal 
F = Change Form 
FB = Fireball 
G = Gaseous/incorporeal 
H = Hesitation (rounds given) 

F1M = Half move 
I = Invisible 

F = Fose 10% of current hit points 
M = See Monster description (rulebooks) 

MJ = Magic jar 
R = Radius 

RR = Recoils (rounds given) 

S = Shun 

ST = Stunned (rounds given) if own gaze met 
T = Teleport (see Monster Description) 

X = Can't use Special Attack 

Y = Can't use Special Attack for 1-3 rounds 

Z = See text of Mundane Guide under "Fight" 

- = Not Applicable or No Effect 

(MM) = Monster Manual 

(FF) = Fiend Folio(tm) Tome 

(MM2) = Monster Manual II 


Run/ Run/ 

For the non-adventurer and very often for adventurers, too, 
the most sensible thing to do when undead are encountered 
is to flee as fast as heart and legs will permit, in the general 
direction of AWAY. 

For handy reference in such situations, the movement 
rates of known types of undead (and common modifiers to 
them) are summarized here. 


Normal Special 

Move Move 


Apparition (FF) 

Coffer Corpse (FF) 

Crypt Thing (FF) 

Death Knight (FF) 

Demilich (MM2) 

Eye of Fear and Flame (FF) 

Ghast (MM) 

'ClhCShTMM)'- 

Ghou/Lacedon (MM) 

Groaning Spirit ("Banshee") (MM) 
Haunt (MM2) 

Huecuva (FF) 

Ixitxachitl, Vampiric (MM) 

HI (MM) 

Mummy (MM) 

Penanngalan (FF) 

Poltergeist (FF) 

Revenant (FF) 

Shadow (MM) 

Sheet Ghoul (FF) 

Sheet Phantom (FF) 

Skeleton (MM) 

Skeleton Warrior (FF) 

Son of Kyuss (FF) 

Spectre (MM) 

Vampire (MM) 

Wight (MM) 

Wraith (MM) 

Zombie (MM) 

Zombie, Juju (MM2) 

Zombie, Monster (MM2) 


Special 

Attack 

Range Cold Iron Mirrors 


Sunstone Bright Full 

Garlic Talisman Light Sunlight 


x HM, X 


12" 

6" 

9" 


M 

- 

; 

; 

- 


M 



V 

BL H 

- 


, 

- 

12" 

G 

• - 

RR1-2 


¦ ~ 

RR2-5 

RR1-3 

HM, S, X 

9" 


- 

DD 

" 

- ^ 


- 

- 

6" 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

RR2-5 

RR1-3 

HM 

12" 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 


- 

- 

_ 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

9" 

- 

A 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 


15"/30" 

G 

- 

- 

r 

f 

RR2-5 

RR1-3 

HM, X 

12" 118" 

fro 

- 

_ 

STl-2 

Hl-4 

RR2-5, L 

RR1-3 

HM, L 

12" 


- 

- 

. 

- 

RR2-5 

RR1-3 

HM, X 

12"/24" 

G 

- 

- 

- 

- 

RR2-5 

RR1-3 

HM, H, X 

6" 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

9" 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Q" 

_ 

_ 


- 

- 

- 

- 

- 



















eye, but mirrors have no effect on the 
powers of this undead. After its initial hesi 
tation, the eye will attack normally, regard 
less of any other repeated mirror displays. 
Mirrors offer no protection against the fire 
ball of an eye. 

Pkay&ks 

Deities answer few prayers actively; they 
prefer to work in the Prime Material Plane 
by means of granting faithful clerics certain 
magical powers (spells), in response to pray 
ers. The prayers of non-worshippers are 
rarely heard by deities, and never 
answered. The prayers of non-clerical but 
faithful worshippers may be answered if 
the protection or furtherance of the deity's 
aims is at stake, but not merely the survival 
or well-being of individual worshippers. 

Put plainly, this means that an on-the-spot 
prayer of even the leader of a priesthood in 
the Realms would probably be ignored if 
the prayer concerned only the survival of 
the high priest. Certainly no adventurer 
could expect to be rescued from a tight spot 
by divine magic. But a worshipper pleading 
for divine intercession to preserve the dei 
ty's temple from attack, for instance, might 
well be answered. 

A gravely wounded worshipper might be 
healed of all current wounds or surrounded 
by a glowing nimbus of protection from evil 
(or good). Hostile magic might be dispelled, 
or creatures sent to aid the faithful or alert 
ed if nearby; e.g. a paladin might receive a 
vivid vision, with instructions. 

An adventurer who enters a dungeon or 
ruin to battle whatever might be there and 
gain treasure - even if for the deity's tem 
ple or priesthood - is, however, on his own. 
No special prayers will be answered. The 
gods help those who help themselves, it has 
been said, and in the Realms this is certainly 
true. If an adventurer is on a quest or spe 
cial task to aid the aims of a deity, any spe 
cial help to be given will already have been 
rendered. 

Of course a DM can aid player characters 
who are in real trouble by the sudden pres 
ence of a guide to a way out, the arrival of 
other creatures for the undead to turn and 
attack, the presence of a magical weapon in 
a tomb or among treasure that can be used 
to fight the undead, and so on. If the trouble 
is of the PCs' own making, the DM may wish 
to have rescuers demand payment or serv 
ice - or dump PCs out of the frying pan into 
the fire. Perhaps the party lacking magical 


weapons can escape the wraith by using a 
permanent magicalgate in its lair - but per 
haps that gate leads to a lamia-haunted 
ruined city in the midst of a vast desert, or 
into the midst of drow-held tunnels in the 
Underdark . . . 

RuK)K))K)g WateR 

The fallacy of the belief that undead cannot 
cross running water is readily apparent to 
those who have encountered "water 
ghosts," marine undead such as lacedons, 
and ghost ships crewed by undead. Undead 
who have a tangible physical existence can 
be swept away or hampered in their activi 
ties by the actions of waves and currents 
just as living creatures can. Magic that influ 
ences water can therefore be used effec 
tively against undead who are in contact 
with water. If a mage devises a wall of water 
spell, it could be used to bar the passage of 
undead unable to physically avoid or pass 
through it. 

Holy water does harm undead, usually 
dealing 2d4 hit points of damage per one- 
quart vial. (For larger amounts, increase the 
damage proportionately.) Only poltergeists 
and revenants are immune to holy water 
effects. 

Sages have postulated that holy water 
harms undead not because of any divine 
will, but because water that has been conse 
crated is chemically altered in a manner 
that brings it somehow closer to the Positive 
Material Plane in nature, and therefore 
inimical to Negative Material Plane-related 
creatures of all sorts, including undead. 

This does not explain why Positive Materi 
al Plane-related undead, such as mummies, 
and ethereal-related ghosts are also harmed 
by holy water. Does holy water act on the 
interplanar bonds of a creature existing in 
two planes at once? If so, why are zombies 
and skeletons. Prime Material-bound 
undead, also affected by holy water? 
Research continues. 

Certainly the presence of clergy or even 
faithful worshippers of any deity is not nec 
essary to give holy water its damaging 
effect - nor does the alignment or nature 
of the undead target seem to matter in this 
regard. (Unholy water does not "heal" 
undead.) 

Intangible or gaseous undead can be 
touched and affected by holy water flung or 
splashed through them, though not if the 
holy water is within a stoppered, sealed vial. 
Shadows, spectres, wraiths, and similar 


undead have the same height in undeath as 
they possessed in life. If such non-corporeal 
undead appear to be standing or walking 
about, their intangible substance extends to 
the ground or floor whether it is visible or 
not. Holy water, symbols, protective circles, 
and the like on the floor will affect non- 
corporeal undead who try to move over 
them. 

Vampires alone among undead are 
destroyed - reduced forever to dust - by 
three continuous rounds of immersion in 
running water. The "undead cannot cross 
running water" belief probably arose from 
encounters with cautious vampires who did 
not follow adventurers onto bridges or onto 
the banks of streams or moats for this rea 
son. Vampires are not hurt by being 
splashed with buckets of normal water, and 
experience no pain or disability by contact 
with running water until three rounds have 
elapsed. A vampire could wade across a 
small stream, and might not bother to fly 
across in bat form if it thought no creature 
could halt its crossing and imperil it. A vam 
pire always instinctively knows when it is in 
contact with running water, and of its peril. 

If a vampire's grave soil is immersed or 
scattered in running water, the vampire is 
not directly harmed, but can never have its 
powers restored by contact with that soil, 
even if it somehow regathers and dries out 
the soil. See "Salt," below for the effects on a 
vampire of permanent loss of all its grave 
soil. 

Salt 

The folk habit of tossing salt over one's 
shoulder to ward off evil or misfortune has 
no direct usefulness against undead, but it 
is born of tales of fleeing adventurers toss 
ing salt behind them at pursuing undead. 
Undead are not harmed by amounts of salt 
normally carried by living persons, but con 
tact with even a handful of salt will cause 
undead who have a tangible presence to 
recoil for one round (the contact will cause 
the salt to be consumed, in cold, non 
flammable "blue flames"). 

A pound or more of salt striking a zombie 
(including animal or juju zombies), wight, 
revenant, coffer corpse, penanggalan, ghoul, 
or ghast causes ld4 + 1 points of damage. For 
hit purposes, consider flung salt to be a 
"grenade-like missile" if in a sack or other con 
tainer, and to be + 4 to hit as a missile weapon 
launched by the character, maximum range 
1", if flung in an open spray. 


89 













A vampire suffers only ld4 points of dam 
age from such contact, but vampires espe 
cially fear salt, and will seek to slay any 
beings carrying it. Salt can rob vampires of 
their power (regeneration, energy drain, 
and the ability to reform a corporeal body) 
if sown on the soil from their grave. A vam 
pire will lose such powers within 12 turns 
of salt contacting his soil (unless he has a 
second, unaffected coffin of grave soil to 
which he goes, and touches the soil, during 
the 12-turn period). The powers will not be 
regained until ld4 + 1x10 days have passed. 

If the soil is thoroughly mixed with salt, 
requiring 10 pounds of salt for each coffin 
the vampire has, the vampire becomes a 
shadow forever. 

Silv&K AK>d> Magical. 

(jueapoNJs 

Weapons of silver or enchanted weapons 
are the only means of physically harming 
some undead. The following table shows 
the effects of such weapons on the more 
common sorts of undead. DMs should 
extrapolate from this information to deter 
mine the effects of silver and magical weap 
ons on rarer (i.e. newly devised) undead. 

Symbols Effective AgalwsT 
Uwdead 

The runic glyph and symbol spells available 
to spell-casters of several classes are not 
effective against undead, with a few excep 
tions. These exceptions include runes that 
cause fire and other physical attacks unless 
the undead is immune to the particular 
attack form, e.g. a cold-magic glyph. Two 
special symbols effective against undead, 
life and sunstrike, are detailed below. Life 
energy draining runes never affect undead. 

Life: Any undead touching, passing over, 
or passing through an opening, doorway, or 
portal protected by this symbol will be 
utterly destroyed - except liches, who are 
disrupted for Id6xl0 days, reforming as 
demi-liches thereafter. This powerful sym 
bol lasts for a number of uses or activations 
equal to the level of the cleric or magic-user 
who cast it. It is often used to protect the 
doors of crypts or catacombs (to keep 
undead in) and temples or palaces (to keep 
them out). 


SILVER AND MAGICAL WEAPONS TABLE 

Key to Table Symbols 

- = Cannot strike 
* = Normal damage 

1 = Half damage from sharp or edged (piercing) weapons 

2 = Double damage 

3 = Half damage (round down) 

4 = Appear to do damage, but have no real effect 

5 = See Monster Description (rulebooks) 

6 = Blunt/bludgeoning/crushing weapons do only half damage 

7 = Weapons may dismember; dismemberment may delay attacks for 1 or more rounds 
(according to situation) 

8 = Considered undead by most sages, but not turnable or harmed by holy water or holy/ 
unholy symbols. Treat zombie ixitxachitl as "normal" zombies. 


Magical 


Undead 

Normal 

Cold Iron 

Silver 

( + 1 or better) 

Notes 

Apparition 

- 

- 


* 


Coffer Corpse 

4 

4 

4 

* 


Crypt Thing 

" 

" 

" 

* 


Death Knight 






Demilich 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

Eye of Fear and Flame 




* 

1,5 

Ghast 

* 

2 

* 



Ghost 

- 

- 

3 



Ghoul/Lacedon 

* 

2 

* 



Groaning Spirit 

- 

- 

" 



Haunt 

- 

- 

* 


5 

Huecuva 

- 

- 

* 


1 

Ixitxachitl, Vampire 

* 

* 

* 

* 


Lich 

- 

- 

" 



Mummy 

- 

- 

- 

" 

3 

Penanggalan 

* 

* 

* 

* 


Poltergeist 

¦ 

_ 

* 



Revenant 

¦ 

¦ 


" 

7 

Shadow 

- 

- 

- 



Sheet Ghoul 


2 

* 



Sheet Phantom 



* 



Skeleton 



* 


1 

Skeleton Warrior 



* 


1 

Son of Kyuss 



* 

_* 


Spectre 

_ 



* 


Vampire 

- 

- 

- 

* 


Wight 

- 

- 

* 

* 


Wraith 

- 

_ 

3 



Zombie 

* 

* 

* 



Zombie, Juju 

- 

- 

- 


1 

Zombie, Monster 





6 


90 
















Sunstrike: This symbol is activated by the 
mere presence of an undead creature with 
in a 2" radius. It operates only once, flaring 
into an intense outpouring of radiant light 
energy that affects nearby creatures as fol 
lows: 

Any creature touching or within 1" of an 
activated symbol suffers 4d6 points of 
energy damage (undead are not allowed a 
saving throw, but other creatures may save 
for Vi damage). 

Any creature within 8" of the activated 
symbol must save vs. death magic or be 
blinded for ldl2 + 1 turns, unless protected 
by a blindfold, unconsciousness, or similar 
means. 

Any undead 1" to 4" distant from an acti 
vated sunstrike symbol must save vs. poison 
(using the Monster Saving Throw matrix, as 
per their hit dice) or suffer 2d8 points of 
damage (save for Vi damage). 

TaUsmaws 

The most commonly known of these 
"good luck charms" is the rabbit's foot: the 
severed paw of a small, furry creature, 
sometimes blessed or bound about with 
herbs (or both). Some simple folk believe 
that these will protect them from undead. 
They are very wrong: Such body parts actu 
ally attract undead within 7" to attack their 
bearers. The reasons for this are much 
argued about by sages (in other words, little 
understood). 

Certain mineral substances known in the 
Realms can provide light with which to see 
undead or even absorb one or more energy 
draining attacks, but only three sorts of 
non-magical things help to keep undead 
away. They are as follows: 

Herbs: Certain herbs or combinations of 
herbs, distilled in a salve or worn as a garland, 
keep lesser undead at bay as a protection 
from evil spell does. Such protections can nev 
er be stronger than the spell named. What 
herbs are effective are secrets which sages 
and alchemists make much money divulging 
for fees; the commonly known ones heard in 
tavern tales and old gossip tend to be wrong 
or lacking in important details. 

Gemstones: Sunstones, when set in a ring 
and worn as a bracelet, necklace, or crown, 
can act on undead as full sunlight does. This 
will only occur if the ring of stones has been 
left in full sun for at least one clear day's sun 
(36 turns). Such a talisman does not give off 
any light or otherwise warn undead, but 
when a protected creature is successfully 


attacked (physically touched) by an undead 
that can be harmed by light, the undead will 
recoil for Td4 + 1 rounds. During that time, 
its AC is penalized by - 2, it cannot regener 
ate, drain life energy or character abilities, 
do chilling damage, or control half-strength 
undead. (Liches, however, CAN do chilling 
damage.) Ghosts are forced into their "semi 
material" state. 

A given sunstone talisman only works 
once between recharges of exposure to full 
sun, and a single undead can only be affect 
ed once in every 66 turns by sunstone con 
tact, no matter how many sunstone 
talismans it encounters. There is no saving 
throw to avoid the talisman's effects. 
Undead not harmed by light (e.g. skeletons, 
zombies, mummies, and liches) are com 
pletely immune to sunstone talisman 
effects. Vampires lose T0% of their current 
hit points upon contact, but take no further 
damage, and cannot be slain by a sunstone 
talisman alone. For effects on a penangga- 
lan, see "Light" in this section. Only the 
detached head and gut of a penanggalan are 
susceptible to sunlight effects. 

Carrion crawler essence: When the ten 
tacles of a carrion crawler are boiled, and 
the resulting residue properly treated by an 
alchemist or other knowledgeable individ 
ual to make a potion, the imbiber of the 
potion can be protected against paralysis of 
all sorts for ldlO + 2 turns. This will protect 
any sort of creature from ghoul or ghast 
attacks. More common uses of carrion 
crawler essence are to create a potion that 
paralyzes the drinker (the usual result if 
unskilled amateurs try to derive carrion 
crawler essence without complete instruc 
tions), or in an ointment that allows the 
anointed one to paralyze other living crea 
tures (not undead) by touch. 

Other non-magical substances effective 
against undead doubtless remain to be dis 
covered. (DMs should devise one or two for 
their own campaigns, but keep their useful 
ness limited or the substances involved 
rare; otherwise, undead would soon be 
eradicated.) 

Uk x>$. Uwdead 

Clerics and magic-users able to animate 
dead can animate and direct skeletons or 
zombies against undead without fear of los 
ing control of them. Note that undead able 
to fly will easily be able to avoid such slow- 
moving undead. 

A magic-user employing an unlife spell 


(see the "The Lords of Darkness" section in this 
book) an Evil cleric successfully compel 
ling undead (see "Turning Undead: Evil Cler 
ics" in the DMG) can command undead to 
attempt the service of fighting other 
undead. 

These are dangerous pursuits - but to 
the desperate, they may seem less danger 
ous than facing hostile undead themselves. 
Powerful undead commonly command less 
powerful undead, but no undead can 
counter a clerical turning or compulsion 
attempt, except a lich who was a magic- 
user/cleric in life. 

Evil clerics fare better against mixed 
groups of undead than Good clerics; they can 
actually turn segments of an undead army 
against the undead host. Good clerics can 
only turn or destroy the undead - and if the 
most powerful member of a mixed group of 
undead is unaffected by a turning cleric, no 
undead in the group can be successfully 
destroyed by that cleric. The DM should 
all "destroy/damn" results to be successful 
turnings, and may allow "turning" results to 
be successful. Half-strength undead under 
the control of a more powerful creator 
undead (such as adventurers slain by a vam 
pire) can only be turned if their creator is 
turned-of if their creator is affected by full 
sunlight (see "Light" this section), and tem 
porarily loses control of them, whereupon 
they can be separately affected. 

Undead cannot drain each other of life 
energy, one or both undead combat 
ants have recently drained a living creature 
of such energy. Undead cannot "chill" each 
other, nor can one undead be charmed or 
magically scared by another. Undead can 
and do threaten each other, and some 
undead can wield magic or magical items to 
compel other undead to perform certain 
tasks, or serve them. 

Death, withering, and aging attacks have 
no effect on the undead. An undead who 
"kills" another in physical combat has the 
option of destroying or controlling that 
undead. Controlled undead regenerate one 
hp per day at their normal rate, which 
ever is greater, and are under absolute con 
trol of the victorious undead until it is itself 
destroyed (ending the control). A controlled 
undead is loyal to its controller, and cannot 
turn on it. Undead who defeat undead more 
powerful in ability or hit dice than them 
selves cannot control such undead, and 
must destroy them. "Mindless" undead such 
as skeletons and zombies cannot control 

anything. 


91 








THE LORDS OF DARKNESS 


Legends tell us that there have always been 
individuals interested in necromantic magic, 
either as a means of increasing their own 
power or to "cheat the game," somehow living 
on after death. Legends also tell us how dan 
gerous such activities are. Many a dabbler in 
necromancy has been destroyed by his own 
undead creations, or by paladins or other 
adventurers seeking to defeat evil. 

Necromancy (or "Dark Art") has always been 
seen as inherently evil. Examination of the 
known necromantic spells reveals that it can 
sometimes be beneficial, but the horror and 
revulsion of most creatures toward magic 
dealing with the dead and with control of the 
physical body remains. 

Necromancers (that is, those who deal in 
such arts) tend to be few, evil in nature, and 
not often quite sane. They also tend to be lon 
ers; those who can control or command the 
obedience of living servants tend to avoid 
messy, difficult, expensive, and often danger 
ous necromantic researches. And yet those 
who hunger for absolute power over others or 
their own body can find triumphant fulfill 
ment in necromancy. 

To avoid abuses of such potentially awesome 
magic, it is necessary for DMs to ensure that 
necromantic spells are little known, and that 
the necessary research to uncover or devise 
them is expensive, lengthy, and dangerous. It is 
recommended that necromancy be a magical 
specialization rather than a separate class or 
profession (for one thing, such a "one-note" 
mastery of magic makes the necromancer vul 
nerable to opponents -such as a party of 
adventurers-who know or guess the nature 
of the caster's power). 

Most clerics can use only the necromantic 
spells described in the PLAYERS HANDBOOK 
and UNEARTHED ARCANA rulebooks. Only 
worshippers of gods concerned with death. 
Evil, and the like are likely to have prayers for 
necromantic magics granted by their deities. 
Such magics, and divine restrictions on their 
use, are left to individual DMs. In the 
FORGOTTEN REALMS(tm) campaign set, only 
followers of Bane, Bhaal, Myrkul, and Tales 
make normal or usual use of undead. There is 
also a cult. The Cult of the Dragon, dedicated 
to creating and serving dragons, or dracoliches 
(see DRAGON(r) Magazine, issue No. 110). 
whom they believe will one day rule the world. 

In the WORLD OF GREYHAWK(r) campaign 
setting, worshippers of Hextor and Nerull the 
Reaper often use undead. 

In the DRAGONLANCE(r) game setting of 
Krynn, clerics of Takhisis, Sargonnas, Mor- 
gion, and particularly Chemosh make regular 
use of undead. 

Most "necromancers" are magic-users spe 
cializing in spells and the making of magical 


items concerned with undeath. Necromancer- 
mages tend to be paranoid loners who are 
secretive in the extreme, use zombie or skele 
ton guardians or bodyguards, and dabble in 
golem-making. Many devise new sorts of 
golems or undead servitors. In the Realms, 
crawling claws, curst, and similar creatures 
exist as a result of such researches. Necroman 
cers, working alone, tend to devise unique 
spells and items; that is, many will achieve 
effects similar to those of "standard" (rule- 
book) spells and magic items by means of their 
own spells and items, which have slightly dif 
ferent properties. 

We have space here for only a skeletal over 
view of specialist necromantic magic-user 
spells. 

One spell presented in the FORGOTTEN 
REALMS(tm) campaign set, Nulathoe's Ninemen, 
is primarily of interest to mages interested in 
animating dead things. Other spells in that set, 
such as Grimwald's Greymcmtie, are also often 
used by necromancers. Magical items of partic 
ular usefulness in necromancy are discussed in 
the preceding "Mundane Guide" section of this 
sourcebook. 

NecRomAKfDc Spells 

Some of the more common necromantic 
magic-user spells are revealed here for the 
first time. DMs should consider the effects of 
including specific spells on campaign play 
before introducing them. 

ConpseVighT 

(ALTeRAtloM/NeoRomAwTlo) 

Level: 1 Components: V,S,M 

Range: 1" /level Casting Time: 1 segment 
Duration: 1 round +1 round/level 
Saving Throw: None 
Area of Effect: Special 

Explanation/description: This spell causes 
corpses, undead, or body parts to glow with a 
pale radiance which outlines them. The radi 
ance may be white, yellow, green, amber, or 
red according to the words of casting. It may 
be mentally altered in intensity by the caster as 
many times as desired during the life of the 
spell, from very bright (not blinding, but 
enough by which to read or perform delicate 
tasks such as lock-picking or surgery) to very 
dim. To do this, the caster must be within 3" of 
the glow. Constant concentration is not neces 
sary to maintain the glow. 

One corpse or separate body part per level of 
the caster may be affected by this spell; high- 
level casters can cause entire bands of undead 
to serve as ambulatory light sources. A caster 
can always choose to exclude particular 


corpses from a corpselight spell. The material 
components of such a spell are the carrion to 
be affected, a pinch of saltpeter, and a bit of 
phosphorous or a glowworm. Note that insub 
stantial undead such as gaseous form vam 
pires, wraiths, and the like are affected by this 
spell. No undead harmed by bright light or 
sunlight is harmed by corpselight. 

DeTecT L/wdead 

Level: 1 Components: V,S 

Range: 1" /level Casting Time: 1 segment 
Duration: 1 round/level Saving Throw: None 
Area of Effect: Globe, 1" radius/level 

Explanation/description: When a magic- 
user casts this spell, it enables the caster to be 
aware of the presence and location of undead 
within the spell range, even if the undead are 
invisible or concealed (within coffins, beneath 
floors, behind doors, etc.). A prickling sensa 
tion warns the caster of the direction of 
undead who pass into the spell's radius after it 
has taken effect. The globe moves with the 
caster. This magic does not enable creatures 
who are not mentally linked with the caster to 
detect undead. 

The reverse of the spell, cloak undead, ren 
ders undead invisible to detect undead and 
normal sight within an identical radius of 
effect. Note that the caster must remain 
present; the globe of magical cloaking is cen 
tered on, and moves with, the caster. Only 
undead can be cloaked by means of this spell, 
not normal corpses or living things. A cloaked 
undead landing a successful attack on any oth 
er creature is instantly revealed, and cannot be 
concealed again except by use of another such 
spell. This spell does not foil true sight or simi 
lar magics, and may be nullified by dispel mag 
ic. Cloaked undead cannot be turned, but 
cannot enter magically protected areas with 
any bonus or special ease. 

(Note: Eastern vampires, normally invisible, 
become wholly visible to all creatures for one 
full round after any round in which they suc 
cessfully physically attack any creature.) 

L/wdead MounjT 

Level: 1 Components: V,S,M 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 round 

Duration: 1 turn + 1 turn/level 
Saving Throw: None 
Area of Effect: Special 

Explanation/description: By means of this 
spell, a magic-user can animate a dead horse or 
similar creature, or create one from bones. 
The mount created will be under the complete 
mental control of the caster, and may be rid- 


92 




den by one or more creatures and/or carry 
burdens, to a maximum weight of 3,000 gp. 
Overloading such a mount, or attempting to 
create one from insufficient bones, will break 
the spell instantly, wasting the magic. (Note 
that the bones used need not ail come from the 
same creature.) Broken bones and crippled or 
lame corpses can be successfully used. 

An undead mount is unintelligent and thus 
unaffected by enchantment/charm magic, is 
neutral in alignment, and moves at a 22" rate 
regardless of encumbrance (or slower at the 
caster's mental bidding). Undead mounts 
always move in utter silence, and can be 
destroyed by inflicting 1 d4+l hp per level of 
the caster points of damage on them (ail types 
of weapons will hit). The caster may choose in 
the initial casting to have the mount glow very 
faintly. The material components for this spell 
are a drop of water, a human hair, a pinch of 
powdered hoof from any riding animal, and 
the corpse or bones that will act as the body of 
the mount. Undead mounts cannot be turned. 

iKtv'isibilTCY To Usid&Ad 
(AVT&mCVioh) 

Level: 2 Components: V,S,M 

Range: 0 Casting Time: 2 segments 

Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: Special 
Area of Effect: One creature 

Explanation/description: By means of this 
spell, the caster or a single creature touched 
during spell-casting is made invisible to 
undead. Despite any sounds made by or activi 
ties of the protected creature, undead will not 
sense the creature's presence. A protected 
creature who successfully attacks an undead is 
instantly revealed to that undead only, and 
cannot be hidden again except by application 
of another spell. Accidental contact between 
an undead and a protected creature (even if 
damage to either creature results) will not 
reveal the protected creature. Protected crea 
tures cannot turn undead. 

Wraiths and more powerful undead are 
allowed a saving throw against this spell; if suc 
cessful, they will be unaffected. Note that a 
powerful undead free of the spell's effects can 
urge lesser undead to attack a protected crea 
ture, but cannot make them see it. The materi 
al components of this spell are a piece of bone, 
a pinch of powdered silver, and an eyelash. 
Note that this spell has some important differ 
ences from the first-level clerical invisibility to 
undead (see UNEARTHED ARCANA rulebook). 


Skull Watch 

Level: 2 Components: V,S,M 

Range: 0 Casting Time: 2 segments 

Duration: 1 round + 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: none 
Area of Effect: Special 

Explanation/description: By use of the intact 
skull (including jawbone) of a skeleton from 
any intelligent race, a thread, and a flake of the 
caster's earwax, this magic creates a magical 
warning system. At casting, the skull is set in 
midair where it will hang, motionless, until 
activated, or on a surface, so that its eyesockets 
point in a certain desired direction. If any iiv- 
ing creature passes into the gaze of the skull (a 
20'-wide path extending from the eyes straight 
ahead for 90', or until a solid barrier inter 
venes, whichever is closer), the skull will be 
activated. It will emit a sudden and very loud 
shriek. This dies away in a horrible wail as the 
skull sinks slowly to the ground. 

This sound can be heard by ail in the vicinity 
up to as much as a quarter of a mile away and 
can always be heard by the spell-caster, if any 
where on the same plane. Silence magics will 
stifle the skull's wail for ail in the vicinity, but 
the caster will still hear it. 

Destruction of the skull (AC 7,1 hp per level 
of the caster) or movement of it to look eise- 
where will not cause it to wail, but the caster 
will hear an echoing rumbling, Skull warnings 
sound in the caster's head, and are not audible 
to others nearby. Note that although a caster 
may have multiple skull guardians, ail will 
sound identical when activated. Rumors per 
sist of a third-level version of this spell that has 
an unlimited waiting period between casting 
and activation. 

SpecTkal W)ngs 
(EvocanoN/NecRomANtlc) 

Level: 2 Components: V,S,M 

Range: 0 Casting Time: 1 round 

Duration: 1 round + 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: None 
Area of Effect: Special 

Explanation/description: This spell creates 
an unseen, largely intangible flying steed. The 
steed forms from an intact bone of any flying 
creature (the material component of the spell, 
consumed in the casting). The bone may be 
from a creature of any size in life, such as a 
normal bird or bat. The caster can clearly see 
the mount at ail times, as a grey, translucent 
winged shape of giant size, typically 12' long 
(plus tail, if any). Its wingspan is over 26'. The 
steed resembles the creature from whose 
bones it came. The mount is invisible to others. 


but creatures or objects carried are completely 
visible. 

The aerial steed is unintelligent and cannot 
be mentally or magically contacted, controlled, 
or influenced. It is a force, not a creature, and 
is totally controlled by the will of the caster. If 
the caster is slain, rendered unconscious, or 
turns his attention elsewhere, the spectral 
wings will continue to act on the last command 
given them (perhaps flying into solid obstacles 
and the like). A spectral wings is not undead; it 
cannot be turned and has no alignment. It can 
carry 1,000 gp in weight per level of the caster, 
living and/or non-living material, and provides 
a solid, stable platform for aerial transporta 
tion or spell-casting. 

A spectral wings is utterly silent, has a 
Maneuverability Class of "A:' and may pass 
through solid objects without dissipating or 
being damaged. Beings and materials carried 
are not empowered to pass through solid 
obstacles, and will suffer impact damage and/ 
or be separated from the wings. A spectral 
wings loaded in excess of its weight capacity 
will simply allow the last objects added to pass 
through it, along with anything attached to, or 
held by, these last objects, and fail away. Thus, 
an adventurer who leaps onto a fully-loaded 
spectral wings and grabs hold of its rider 
would pass through as though the spectral 
wings did not exist - but so would the rider, as 
long as contact was maintained. 

Mummy Touch 
(AtTeRaTow/NecRomawTlc) 

Level: 3 Components: V,S,M 

Range: much Casting Time: 3 segments 
Duration: 1 round/level Saving Throw: None 
Area of Effect: Special 

Explanation/description: By means of this 
spell, the caster is rendered immune to the rot 
ting disease caused by the touch of undead 
mummies. The caster is also empowered to 
inflict the rotting disease by touch. The disease 
causes the flesh of a victim to rot (no saving 
throw, but ail undead are affected), perma 
nently causing a loss of 2 Charisma points per 
month, and is fatal in ld6 months. It can be 
cured only by cure disease or more powerful 
magics, and negates ail cure wound spells. 
Infected creatures heal wounds at 10% of the 
normal rate. The caster's appearance is not 
changed by the spell, nor are his Strength, 
alignment, or hp of damage of blows dealt by 
him. The caster must make a successful hit roil 
to deliver a mummy touch, and cannot choose 
to turn the power on or off to affect certain 
creatures but not others; once the spell is end 
ed by will of the caster, who can end it prema 
turely if desired, it cannot be revived again. 


93 











The caster cannot transfer the powers of 
this magic to another creature. A caster with 
an active mummy touch can suffer physical 
damage from mummies, but is not afraid of or 
paralyzed by them, and if slain by mummies 
during the spell duration, will not rot. Crea 
tures slain by a mummy touch do not rot as the 
victims of mummies do. The rotting disease 
created by the magic cannot be transferred to 
weapons, drinkables, or the like for later trans 
ference to victims; it works only by direct 
touch (maximum of one touch per round). The 
material components of this spell are a pinch of 
mummy dust, a drop of the caster's blood, and 
a scrap of rotting meat or fish, which are 
brought together in the casting and consumed 
by the gathering magic. 

ReueMAMce 

(AlTeRaTiow/NecRomawTJc) 

Level: 3 Components: V,S,M 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 3 segments 
Duration: Special Saving Throw: None 

Area of Effect: One undead/level 

Explanation/description: This powerful 
magic enables caster to make undead crea 
tures temporarily immune to turning attempts 
and destruction or disruption (even if normal 
ly automatic) by paladins and clerics. A mace of 
disruption and similar holy items will still have 
normal effects on undead protected by this 
spell, but protection from evil magics will be 
ignored by revenant undead. 

The caster can affect one undead creature 

per level, for one turning attempt (each) per 
level of the caster. All creatures to be affected 
must be touched by the caster within two 
rounds of casting. The magic will last until the 
undead are destroyed until they have faced 
as many turning attempts as the caster had 
levels at the time of casting the revenance. This 
spell is much used to render skeleton or zom 
bie treasure guardians more effective. Its 
material contents are a flake of ash, a pinch 
of dust, a drop of the caster's blood, a fragment 
of bone, a stone and a drop of the caster's spit 
tle, All of which vanish during casting. A little- 
known higher-level variant of this spell is said 
to create revenant undead (see the FIEND 
FOLIO(tm) book, "Revanant"). 

War£> Aga)N)sT Utode&b 
(AbjuRAT)oK)/NecRomAN)T)c) 

Level: 3 Components: VS 

Range: 1" /level Casting Time: 3 segments 
Duration: 1 round + 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

Area of Effect: Sphere, 1" radius/level 


Explanation/description: This spell allows 
the caster to prevent undead creatures enter 
ing a certain area - typically a cross-section of 
corridor, chamber, or another area containing 
the caster and companions. Undead attempt 
ing to enter the protected area, which glows 
with a faint blue faerie fire-like radiance, visi 
ble to all, must save vs. breath weapon accord 
ing to their hit dice to do so. 

Undead within the warded area when it is 
cast are slowed to V 2 movement rate for the 
spell duration; undead who save vs. the spell 
are totally unaffected. The warded area is sta 
tionary, once cast, and does not affect move 
ment, combat, spell-casting, or turning 
attempts. It cannot be prematurely ended, 
once cast, except by dispel magic, and does not 
require continued concentration by the caster 
to maintain its existence. Undead may attempt 
to enter a warded area once per round, and 
are allowed a saving throw for each attempt. 
Once a save is successful, that undead is never 
again affected by the same ward spell. A 
slowed undead who leaves a warded area and 
then attempts to re-enter it must successfully 
save to do so. Multiple wards may be cast in the 
same area, and undead would have to save 
against all of them to enter. A dispel magic will 
bring down such a ward (one ward per dispel, 
if multiple wards exist). 

Death's Door 
(N eCROODANtlc) 

Level: 4 Components: V,S,M 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 6 segments 
Duration: 1 hour/level Saving Throw: None 
Area of Effect: One creature 

Explanation/description: Like the third-level 
clerical spell of the same name, death's door 
works by touch upon a creature "at death's 
door" ( - 1 to - 9 hit points). An important dif 
ference from the clerical spell is that it works 
on all creatures - including undead. The spell 
brings the touched creature to 0 hit points and 
stops bleeding and deterioration for the spell 
duration (further magical means can thus 
restore the creature to a functioning state). 
The material components of the spell are a 
clear gem or crystal, a drop of water or dew, a 
drop of blood, a drop of milk or nectar, and any 
form of unguent. 

Speak (ju)tb The Dead 
(NecRomaNtlc) 

Level: 4 Components: V,S,M 

Range: 1" Casting Time: 1 turn 

Duration: Special Saving Throw: None 

Area of Effect: One creature 


Explanation/description: Like the third-level 
clerical spell, this magic allows the caster to ask 
questions of dead (not undead) creatures and 
receive audible replies. Caster and dead must 
share a common language, and the spell must 
be cast on the remains or a portion thereof. 
The material components are a flame (of any 
source), a drop of the caster's blood, and the 
tongue of any creature (which may be dried or 
powdered). Number of questions answered, 
time allowed for questioning, and length of 
time after the creature's death that it may be 
successfully questioned all depend on the cast 
er's level, as follows: 


Caster's 

Maximum 

Time 

Number of 

Level 

Time Dead Questioned Questions 

Up to 7th 

1 week 

1 round 

2 

7-8 

1 month 

3 rounds 

3 

9-12 

1 year 

1 turn 

4 

13-15 

10 years 

2 turns 

5 

16-20 

21st and 

100 years 

3 turns 

6 

up 

1,000 years 

6 turns 

7 


TelepoRT Dead 

(AUTeRahoM/NecRomawTlc) 

Level: 4 Components: V,S 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 3 segments 
Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: Neg. 
Area of Effect: One undead 

Explanation/description: By means of this 
magic, the caster can instantly teleport a single 
undead creature to any location desired on the 
same plane. Chances of teleporting high or low 
are as for the fifth-level teleport spell, but the 
caster cannot deliberately direct the undead 
high or low. A successful hit roll is required to 
touch undead not animated by the caster. (Note 
that intangible undead such as spectres, gas 
eous vampires, and the like can still be touch 
ed.) All undead are entitled to a saving throw 
vs. breath weapon according to their hit dice 
to avoid the spell effects. If they save success 
fully, the spell is wasted and lost. 

Chili Touch 

(AlTeRatlow/NecRomaNtlc) 

Level: 5 Components: V,S,M 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 5 segments 
Duration: 1 round/level Saving Throw: None 
Area of Effect: Special 

Explanation/description: This spell enables 
the caster to touch creatures as a lich does, chill 
ing for ldlO points of damage and paralyzing all 
creatures who fail to save vs. breath weapon. 
The caster cannot turn the touch on and off, 
choosing not to harm certain creatures he or 
she touches while deliberately harming others. 


94 









but only one creature per round can be affect 
ed. A successful hit roll is required to deliver a 
chill touch. Undead are immune to this magic. 
In turn, a caster with an active chill touch is 
immune to the chilling attacks of liches, and is 
immune to all forms of fear and paralysis. The 
material components of this spell are a drop of 
the caster's blood, a thorn, and a piece or pinch 
of powdered lich bone. 

Disguise UN)dead 

(liiusIow/PbAwTAsro/AiTeRA- 

T)oK)/NecRorr>AK)T)c) 

Level: 5 Components: V, S,M 

Range: 1' /level Casting Time: 1 turn 

Duration: 1 turn/level Saving Throw: None 
Area of Effect: 1 undead/level 

Explanation/description: This spell enables 
the caster to alter the appearance of undead so 
that they appear as living creatures. They 
appear as they would have in healthy life, with 
flesh, eyes, and so on, and give off no charnel 
odors. Disguised undead have no discernible 
alignment; consider them Neutral for pur 
poses of magical item contact. They do not 
detect as undead (although they will not detect 
as life, either), and can't be turned or 
destroyed by a cleric or paladin during the 
spell duration. All undead attacks and powers 
not related to appearance are unaffected by 
this spell. Flesh created by this spell will feel 
solid and normal to the touch, although it will 
not bleed or sweat. Disguised undead, of 
course, do not need to breathe. If the disguised 
undead can't normally speak or act indepen 
dently, the spell does not enable them to do so. 
Mages dabbling in necromancy often use this 
magic to conceal the nature of skeleton or zom 
bie bodyguards when visiting cities. The mate 
rial components of this spell are a pinch of 
ashes, a pinch of dust, a drop of the caster's 
blood, a bone or bone fragment, a scrap of 
flesh, a human hair, and an insect cocoon. 

Hold UwdeAd 

(AbjuRATIo M/NecRom anjTIc) 

Level: 5 Components: V,S,M 

Range: 6" Casting Time: 5 segments 

Duration: 1 round/level Saving Throw: Neg. 
Area of Effect: One to three undead 

Explanation/description: Like the second- 
level clerical spell, this magic holds affected 
targets immobile. The targets must be undead, 
who save against the spell as follows: one 
undead saves vs. spells at -2; two undead 
dach save at - 1; three undead save normally. 
The type of undead has no effect on the saving 
throw; the caster need not even know how 


many undead are present. No more than three 
undead can be affected. Those making their 
saving throws are completely unaffected. Held 
undead cannot be disrupted or turned, nor 
can they change form or cast spells. Any physi 
cal attack striking a held undead breaks the 
hold. The material components of the spell are 
a bone wrapped in ferrous wire and two mag 
nets or lodestones. 

Imbue L/wdeAd With SpeLl 
AblilTy 

Level: 6 Components: V,S,M 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 turn 

Duration: Special Saving Throw: None 

Area of Effect: One undead 

Explanation/description: By use of this spell, 
the caster bestows the ability to cast a particu 
lar spell on a single undead. The spell to be cast 
by the undead must be one known to, and usa 
ble by, the caster, who must cast it immediately 
after the imbuement magic to transfer it. Any 
sort of spell can be transferred, and will take 
effect when released by the undead (no fur 
ther verbal, somatic, or material components 
being required) as if cast by the living caster. A 
set of conditions for release of the spell must 
also be part of the casting, typically at any liv 
ing creature entering a certain guarded area. 
The spell is "one-shot," that is, a single undead 
can only unleash the transferred spell once. It 
is then exhausted (as if the living caster had 
cast it). A given undead can only be imbued 
with a single spell at a time. This spell is often 
used to allow zombies to unleash fireballs or 
lightning bolts in hallways or shafts, or allow 
skeletons to blink when fighting intruders or 
employ magic missiles. 

SpecTRAi GuARd 
(Evoca.tloN/NecROfnANT)c) 

Level: 6 Components: V,S,M 

Range: 6" Casting Time: 1 round 

Duration: Special Saving Throw: None 

Area of Effect: 2" radius sphere 

Explanation/Description: This spell creates 
an invisible guardian at a specific, immovable 
location. The caster requires a spare weapon, a 
human bone, a drop of blood, and the eye of 
any creature, which may be dried or pre 
served (all are consumed during the casting). 
The spectral guard waits, undetectable by nor 
mal, non-magical means, until dispelled or 
until specific conditions, stated in the spell 
casting, are met. Such conditions are typically 
the unlocking of a certain door or chest, a crea 
ture who is not the caster entering a certain 
area or touching specific objects, and so on. 


When the conditions are fulfilled, the spectral 
guard will appear as a wraith-like, swirling, fly 
ing being, with a tapering, legless form and dis 
tinct limbs necessary for wielding of the 
weapon. The wraith-like weapon will be a 
duplicate of the material component weapon 
consumed in the casting, and will do normal 
weapon damage. It is non-corporeal, able to 
pass through solid barriers, shields, and so on. 
It can strike ethereal and gaseous creatures, 
and creatures normally hit only by +2 or bet 
ter magical weapons. Victims struck feel a chill 
as the spectral blade strikes. 

The spectral guard strikes twice per round, 
is AC 0, strikes as the caster would, has phan 
tom hit points equal to the caster's (at the time 
of casting this spell), and, if not dispelled by 
being slain, will fight for one round per level of 
the caster. Dispel magic is ineffective against a 
spectral guard. The guard flies at 24" per 
round, is Maneuverability Class A, and is utter 
ly silent. It cannot be charmed, turned, 
repelled, blinded, or duped by illusions. It will 
detect living creatures unerringly within 5". 
Once activated, a spectral guard can be dis 
pelled at will by its caster, but cannot be 
stopped and restarted later; another spell is 
needed to replace the guard. The physical 
appearance (features, height, etc.) of spectral 
guards may be fashioned by will of the caster 
during casting, to resemble a specific real per 
son or beings of a particular build, race, age, 
and/or sex. 

UtodeAd RegeweRAtloK) 

(NecRomAMtlc) 

Level: 6 Components: V,S 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 6 segments 
Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: None 
Area of Effect: One undead 

Explanation/description: This magic enables 
the caster to heal an undead by a number of hit 
points equal to the caster's own level, plus ld6. 
Note that gaseous and intangible undead can 
be touched by the caster passing into the space 
they occupy. The reverse of this spell, undead 
drain, requires a successful hit roll (if missed, 
the spell is lost), and inflicts a like amount of hp 
damage. Damage to undead is dissipated, not 
gained as extra hit points by the caster. Only 
undead can be affected by either version of 
this spell. 

SuNJbuRsT 

(EvocaTIo kj/A tTeRAtio kj) 

Level: 8 Components: V,S,M 

Range: 0 Casting Time: 4 segments 

Duration: 1 round Saving Throw: Special 
Area of Effect: Special 


95 




















Explanation/description: When a magic- 
user casts a sunburst spell, a globe of radiance 
explodes soundlessly outward in all directions 
from his body. The radiance races out in a sin 
gle round to a maximum effective radius of 1" 
per level of the caster, and then dissipates. Like 
the druidic sunray this radiance blinds all 
creatures within it for ld3 rounds (save vs. 
spell to avoid). Creatures using ultravision are 
blinded for 2d4 rounds if they fail to save. 
Creatures to whom sunlight is harmful are 
blinded for 2d6 rounds (or IdlOO days if they 
fail to save). Creatures within the radiance also 
have their infravision, if any, ruined for 
ld4 +1 rounds. Undead including vampires 
suffer 8d6 points of damage, half if a save vs. 
spells is successful. The ultraviolet light of the 
sunburst does 8d6 points of damage to fungoid 
creatures and subterranean fungi (no saving 
throw). The material components of the spell 
are a piece of aventurine feldspar (sunstone) 
and a naked flame, from any source. 

UwDfe (NecRomawtlc) 

Level: 8 Components: V,S,M 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 round 

Duration: Permanent Saving Throw: None 
Area of Effect: Special 

Explanation/description: This powerful 
magic enables the caster to create undead 
from corpses and skeletal remains. Undead 
take 20 turns (minus the level of the caster) to 
come to unlife, and upon appearance, will 
attempt to carry out one task or action stated 
in the spell-casting (typically, to attack the first 
creature other than the caster to enter the 
place where the spell was cast). The created 
undead is not otherwise under the control of 


the caster. The caster has a 7% chance per level 
of successfully choosing the type of undead 
created. Otherwise, use the following percen 
tile table to determine what sort of undead the 
carrion is transformed into. 

Normally only a single undead can be cre 
ated by this spell. Sometimes (2 in 6 chance) 
two or three may be inadvertently created, if 
other carrion is within 2" of the casting. Types 
of extra undead are not selectable by the cast 
er, nor are such extra undead obligated to car 
ry out any task or refrain from attacking the 
caster, who may not even be aware of their 
existence. 

The reverse of this spell, go down, causes a 
single undead to be reduced to lifeless remains 
(if non-corporeal, it is reduced to dust forever). 
Such remains, not dust, could be reanimated 
by later magic. The material components for 
both forms of the spell are a pinch of dust, a 
pinch of ashes, a drop of blood, a drop of 
water, and a fragment of bone. 

CokjTroI UNjdead 
(NecRomawtlc) 

Level: 9 Components: V,S,M 

Range: T'/level Casting Time: 2 segments 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: Special 
Area of Effect: Special 

Explanation/description: This spell enables 
the caster to control undead creatures perfect 
ly and precisely, as though they were intelli 
gent creatures under a charm. Controlled 
undead can perform precise tasks such as 
climbing, sorting or unlocking things, binding 


wounds, and the like, but cannot cast spells or 
perform other class abilities denied to the 
spell-caster. 

When a control undead is cast, the caster is 
instantly aware of all undead within range. All 
must save vs. spell at - 6 to avoid being affect 
ed. As many undead as the caster has levels 
can be affected; if more are present, which 
ones are affected is randomly determined, not 
decided by the caster. On the third round of 
control, all controlled undead save against 
spells at -5, to break free of control. On the 
fifth round, they save at -4, and so on, until 
the spell expires or all undead are free of con 
trol. After 15 rounds of control, the save will 
be made at + 1, gaining a plus on every save 
thereafter. Once control of a particular undead 
is lost, it can never be regained. Death, depar 
ture, unconsciousness, or further spell-casting 
on the part of the caster will end the control 
undeadspell. Note that undead, unlike 
charmed living creatures, are not freed of con 
trol by being directed to do things harmful to 
them. 

DaRk ArT 

These pages have only touched on some high 
lights of necromancy and the study of undead 
of which it is a part. Eminent sages of the 
Realms such as Elminster warn that many Evil 
individuals in the Realms have learned much 
more than is set down here, and are most for 
midable, if encountered. The sage Ransair of 
Silverymoon's famous warning seems a good 
place to end, for now. He told adventurers: 
"Never, never hope to defeat a lich with a raise 
dead spell." Be warned, and fare you well when 
the night is dark and something is moving, 
behind you. 


UNUFE SPELL TABLE 


Level of 

Caster 

Skeleton 
or Zombie 

Ghoul 

Ghast 

Shadow 

Wight 

Wraith 

Mummy 

Spectre 

Ghost 

Vampire 

Other 

(DM'S 

choice) 

16-18 

01-12 

13-25 

26-36 

37-48 

49-57 

58-64 

65-71 

72-83 

84-87 

88-93 

94-00 

19-21 

01-10 

11-23 

24-34 

35-46 

47-55 

56-62 

63-69 

70-81 

82-85 

86-91 

92-00 

22-24 

01-08 

09-21 

22-32 

33-44 

45-53 

54-60 

61-67 

68-79 

80-83 

84-89 

90-00 

25-27 

01-06 

07-19 

20-30 

31-42 

43-51 

52-58 

59-65 

66-77 

78-81 

82-89 

90-00 

28-30 

01-04 

OS-17 

18-28 

29-40 

41-49 

SO-56 

57-63 

64-75 

76-79 

80-89 

90-00 

31 + 

01-02 

03-15 

16-26 

27-28 

39-47 

48-54 

55-61 

62-73 

74-77 

78-89 

90-00 


96 















Advanced Du ngeons£T ,ra 3 ons 



Official Game Accessory 


Introduced by Ed Greenwood 

The Undead. Denied Lhe eternal rest oF Death, 
cursed to wander the many planes and worlds foi 
ever, their very existence a mockery of the JiTe they 
constantly crave yet cannot have. Created by the 
foulest mayics, they have only one thought one 
burning goaf: revenge against Lhe living. Or do they? 

Lords of Darkness is arc anthology of short adven 
tures set in various locations in the Forgotten 
Realms, though you don't neEd the FORGOTTEN 
REALMS(tm) campaign supplement to use them. Some 
of gaming's best designers have contributed adven 
tures. to this collection, which feature undcad of jli 
types and descriptions in all sorts of situations- 
from skeletons to vampires and worse, from grave 
yards to haunted ho uses, and even a few places you 
may never have expected to find the undead. 

These adventures can be used une at a lime, insett 
ed into an existing campaign as a change of pace, or 
they can be a basis for an entirely new campaign. 
Either way. Lords of Darkness will be sure to give 
ADGD' game players plenty of chills and excitement. 


I 9KH 1"SIL Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in -U.5 A 


TSR Lid. 

1 2d Church End, Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CBI 3L0 


T&R, Inr. 

FOB 756- 
Ljlff" ¦Geneva, Wl 


5.1347 


¦Jlilted Kingdom 


ISB 'H O-8&03& c>2Li 3 



£H2QXXX1401 


SUd JD CJ^. 



























