Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "tsr02444_-_DS_-_Mind_Lord_os_the_Last_Sea"
See other formats




















Credits 

Design: Matt Forbeck 

Editing: Lester Smith 

Cover Art: Maren & Alan Pollack 

Interior Art: John T. Snyder 

Project Coordinator: Dori Hein 

Prepress Coordinator: Dave Conant 

Art Director: Bob Galica 

Cartography: Dennis Kauth & Rob Lazzaretti 

Typography: Tracey L. Isler 

Special Thanks to: Troy Denning, Tim Brown, and Bill Slavicsek for coming up with 
such a cool world. And to the Stones for providing much needed 
electricity. 

Dedication: This is for Nik and Wendy Kolinskym, during whose wedding I wrote 
this, and for their son Jacob. 


Advanced Dungeons & Dragons, AD&D, Dark Sun, Dungeon Master, and Monstrous Compendium are 

registered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. Player's Option and the TSR logo are trademarks owned by 
TSR, 

Inc. All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by 
TSR, 
Inc. Copyright (c) 1996 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. Made in U.S.A. Random House and its affiliate 
companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for English-language products of TSR, 
Inc. 
Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and 
hobby 

trade by regional distributors. This product is protected by the copyright laws of the United States of 
America. 

Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without 
the 
express written permission of TSR, Inc. 

Permission granted to photocopy or print this product for personal use. 

1 


Introduction . 

Who Should Read This . 

How This Book Works. 

Chapter One: The Lay of the Land 

The Road to the Last Sea. 

The Lava Gorge. 

The Burning Plains. 

The Thunder Mountains 

The Last Sea. 

The People. 

Saragar . 

The Mind Lords. 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


V' 


Chapter Two: Getting There. 

The Thunder Mountains. 

The South Pass . 

The Great Trade Days 

The Burning Plains. 

Flashfires. 

The Border of Guardians 
Border of Guardians Table. 
Chapter Three: Last Sea History , 
The Meeting of the Minds . . . 

A Dark Visitation. 

The Great Task. 

The Great Leap. 

The Reins of Power. 

The Border Raising . 

The Assault on the Last Sea . . 
Chapter Four: The Mind Lords . . 

Thesik . 

Kosveret . 

Enter Barani . 

The Entering of the Orbs 

The Situation Today. 

Happiness is Mandatory 
Chapter Five: The Last Sea . . . . 

Cuarsen . 

Cubarto . 

Huddleston . 

Kharzden . 

Rivertown . 

Shallat. 

Sylvandretta. 

Waishiki. 

The Lonely Butte. 

Blufftown . 

The Lonely Giants. 

Criker's Pirates. 

Undertown . 

The Seaways. 


4 

5 

6 
7 
9 
9 

11 

11 

11 

13 

13 

14 


1 5 

1 7 
18 
18 

19 

20 
21 
22 

23 

24 

25 

25 

26 

27 

28 

29 

30 
32 
32 

34 

35 

36 

37 
39 

41 

42 

43 

44 

45 

46 

46 

47 
49 

49 

50 

51 

51 

52 


2 




















































Chapter Six: Saragar: City by the Sea . 54 

The Government. 57 

The Lawmakers. 57 

The Lawkeepers. 57 

The Lawtenders. 5 g 

The Distillery and the Water Tower.60 

The Palace. 51 

The Port. 63 

The Beach. 63 

The Underground. 04 

Chapter Seven: New Rules.65 

Dehydration. 66 

Humidity. 67 

Example of Humidity's Effects.67 

Catching Cold. 07 

Example of Catching Cold.67 

Drinking Sea Water . 6 8 

New Proficiencies. 09 

Sailing. 69 

Sailboarding. 70 

Surfing. 70 

Wind. 71 

Last Sea Wind Table. 71 

Swimming . 71 

Drowning 71 

Magic. 7 2 

Defiler Magical Destruction Table. 7 2 

Other Consequences. 7 2 

New Equipment. 7 3 

Surfboard. 73 

R aft . 73 

Sailboard . 74 

Kayak. 74 

Rowboat . 74 

Barge . 74 

Sloop . 74 

Yacht .74 

Corsair . 75 

Appendix Random Encounter Tables.7 5 

The Lonely Butte . 7 5 

Saragar. 7 5 

The Shores. 7 5 

Thunder Mountains . 75 

The Last Sea . 75 

Barani . 76 

Dolphin, Athasian. 7 3 

Giant, Crag. 8 0 

Guardian . 8 1 

Kosveret . 8 2 

Kreel . 8 4 

Lawkeepers . 8 5 

Lizard Man, Athasian. 8 7 

Puddingfish . 8 9 

Shark, Athasian. 90 

Skyf ish. 9 1 

Squark.g 2 

Thesik. 94 


3 



























































The 

Wanderer's 

Journal 



Over the many decades 
that I, the Wanderer, have 
traveled the sands of Athas, 

I have seen many strange 
things: lands and creatures 
wracked and twisted by the 
Sorcerer-Kings' ravaging of 
our once-fair planet. That 
foul defiling magic has 
robbed us of the world of 
plenty that our ancestors 
knew, a world that 

INTRODUCTION 

Sorcerer-Kings' mad 
lust for power. 

Imagine my 

amazement then, when I 
discovered the facts behind 
one of Athas's most popular 
legends: the valley of the 
Last Sea. Believe me when 
I say that the rumors are 
true, at least as far as they 
go. Far to the north of the 
Tyr Region, unknown even 
to most of its neighbors, the 
Last Sea lies nestled 
between the arms of the 
Thunder Mountains and the 
literally named Burning 
Plains. There, in a secluded 
valley protected from 
even the eyes of the 
Sorcerer-Kings, rests the 
only major body of water 
on all of Athas: a sea so 
great that its farthest shore 
is lost to the curve of 
the horizon! 


The day was long and hot, as all days on Athas are. Kabak Giantkiller lifted the wide 
brim of his shapeless hat and paused to wipe the sweat which dripped into his eyes 
from his hairless brow. The strip of colored cloth which was supposed to keep his 
perspiration from his eyes had long since soaked through. He stripped it off and 
wrung it out, heartily cursing all the while. 

It was a labor to cross these mountains-the Thunder Mountains they were called, 
though Kabak had seen no rain since he left hated Tyr so many long and dusty weeks 
ago. Their peaks towered high above him, their tips painted with some sort of shiny, 
white material his guide called "snow." While the air had actually grown somewhat 
cooler as he and she climbed into the pass, the going was still so strenuous that sweat 
poured off Kabak as if he were standing in the middle of the Lava Gorge itself. 

"How much longer, old one?" he snarled, baring his sharpened teeth. The heat 
made it almost painful to talk. While nowhere near as hot as it had been when they 
had skirted the Lava Gorge, it was still enough to bake the inside of his mouth. An 
old wound he'd taken in the gladiatorial pits of Tyr was making him lame in his left 
leg, too, and that wasn't making his mood any better or the going any easier. 

The guide, a wizened elf woman, grinned back at him over her shoulder, her 
pointed ears seeming to twitch in anticipation. '"Soon," she cackled. "We are almost 
there. But ..." she barked a laugh-to Kabak, she sounded like a hyena dying of 
thirst-and wagged a finger at him, ". . . when you find what it is you seek, you may 
discover that you are not seeking what it is that you wish to find." 

Kabak snarled at this nonsense and smacked the crone on the back of her head. 
Caught by surprise, she went sprawling. 

"Quit talking in riddles, hag," the ex-gladiator said. "I've no patience for such 
things. If you speak to me with a twisted tongue again, I will rip the very muscle 
from your withered mouth." 

The elf leapt up to face the mul, a knife in her hand as tong and thin as the bones 
of the arm that held it. Though she appeared frail, her grip on the weapon was 
strong and steady. "'Strike me again, half-breed," she said, "and I'll gut you where 
you stand." Her cold gray eyes told Kabak that she meant it. He hadn't known the elf 
to lie to him yet, and it didn't look as if shed decided to start now. 

"Put the knife down, Sahanda. When I'm your age, I hope I'll know enough to not 
start a fight I can't win." 

She pointed at his battered leg. "I don't need to fight you, mul. I could lose you in 
these mountains in a minute. What say I just leave you here? You'd never find your 
way out." 


4 


He glared into her eyes darkly, and for a moment she met his stare squarely. In 
the end, though, she looked away. Kabak laughed coldly. 

"Move on, Sahanda." He pointed up the trail. "Time is wasting, and you promised 
that we'd reach the Last Sea by day's end." 

The elf ran the back of a weathered hand across her mouth and came away with 
a streak of red. Angered by the sight, she spat at the mul's feet. Her reddened saliva 
smacked onto the top of his left sandal and trickled between his toes. Kabak didn't 
give the slightest indication he even noticed, and after a long silent moment, the old 
guide continued on her way, the mul limping along behind her. 

Welcome to Marnita, the Last Sea, the final remnant of an age long since past in the 
turbulent history of Athas, the world of the Dark Sun. Nestled in a distant part of the 
globe, far from the better-documented Tyr Region, the Last Sea is a true marvel, a 
brilliant, watery jewel that stands out all the more for being set in the desiccated 
sands of Athas's endless deserts. 

The Mind Lords of the Last Sea is a product in three parts. The first is this book 
that you are holding, the 96-page sourcebook. The second is a 32-page adventure 
entitled In the Lands of the Last Sea. This adventure takes place primarily in Saragar, 
the largest city on the shores of Marnita, itself the home to the mysterious Mind 
Lords. The third part is the full-color mapsheet which depicts the Last Sea and the 
territory surrounding it, again giving special attention to once-mighty Saragar. 

Who Should Read This 

How much of this product you should read is up to your Dungeon Master. The DM 
should read through this entire product before deciding which portions of it to share 
with his players. Obviously, under no circumstances should players read the adventure. 

Doing so would spoil many of the surprises in it and make the game less enjoyable. 

Of the sourcebook, players could certainly be permitted to read Chapter One: The 
Lay of the Land. This is a brief overview of the Last Sea, and it reveals no startling 
secrets better unveiled at a later date. As for allowing players to peruse the rest of 
this book, it all depends on how much you, as DM, want your players to know 
about the Last Sea region before their characters enter it. 



5 




















Of course, DMs who like to play their cards close to their chest may not wish to 
let their players read any of this product at all. In this way, everything the players' 
characters encounter in adventures in and near Marnita will be entirely new to them. 

How This Book Works 

Chapter One contains a brief overview of the Last Sea and its surrounding lands. If 
the DM wishes, it can be read by players planning on possibly visiting the Mind 
Lords' realm. In any case, it serves as an excellent primer for everything else to 
come, no matter who happens to be reading it. 

Since most player characters hail from somewhere in the Tyr Region, Chapter Two 
details the various ways by which a party of adventures might manage to make their 
way from more familiar territories to Marnita, and it reveals some of the inevitable 
hazards that lay en route to this legendary region. Once the heroes finally manage to 
reach Saragar, though, they still have to find some way to surmount the ancient 
wards that have kept the Last Sea isolated for so long from the rest of the world. 

Chapter Three relates the unique history behind Saragar and Marnita. It reveals 
how they've remained connected to the Green Age of Athas for so long and just how 
their own history has developed, insulated as they've been from the changes that 
have ravaged the rest of the world. 

As it turns out, the answer to how the Last Sea has survived is less of a what and 
more of a who. Chapter Four fully describes the three mysterious Mind Lords who 
have taken it as their sacred duty to protect the lands in which they reside, as well as 
the people who live alongside them. 

Chapter Five moves on from the personalities behind the miraculous land to the 
very miracle itself. It covers the Last Sea and the lands directly surrounding it, as 
well as the last remaining settlement of lizard men living beneath the sea's some 
times turbulent surface. The druids and water clerics of Marnita are described here, 
as well. Rare characters elsewhere on Athas, here they have thrived. 

The most important part of the Last Sea region is undoubtedly the fabled city of 
Saragar-the heart, mind, and soul of the Last Sea-and Chapter Six discusses it in 
great detail. Everything truly important about the area happens here. At one time, 
Saragar was the last bastion of an enlightened civilization, the only surviving rem 
nant of a dead age. Today, things are different, as the situations which permitted the 
society to survive have also caused it to stagnate in unusual ways. 

Most Athasians have never seen a full bathtub, much less an entire sea. Chapter 
Seven covers all sorts of new rules concerning how Athasians from drier regions 
(basically all of Athas outside of the Last Sea) manage things like swimming, sailing, 
and drowning. 

The end of this book features a Monstrous Compendium(r) Appendix. Flere, you'll 
find full statistics on creatures from the region of the Last Sea, ranging from the 
unusual Athasian lizard men to the Mind Lords themselves. 

Once you've read through this book, you'll have plenty of material to support as 
much adventuring in the Last Sea region as you're likely to ever need. Then, for a 
good example of how to get an adventure campaign rolling in and about Saragar, 
check out the adventure book that came with this sourcebook. You surely won't be 
disappointed. 


6 



CHAPTER ONE: 

The Lay 

of the 

Land 


Kabak stumbled to the ground and cursed the day that his parents had met in the 
slave quarries of Tyr, leading - inevitably, it seemed-to his accidental birth. He was 
not used to all of this climbing around, and his leg was killing him, almost literally. 
When it had been injured three years before, the doctors had wanted to amputate it. 
Kabak had killed the first surgeon with the man's own saw. The others decided to let 
him alone. 

Despite the pain that his old wound now caused as he climbed down out of the 
Thunder Mountains, Kabak had never regretted his determination to keep the limb. 
To his mind, a bum leg was infinite/y better than none at all. His gladiatorial career 
was over, though, and despite this, he vowed to never become a beggar on Tyr's 
dirty streets. He worked for the next few years as a bouncer at a local tavern called 
the Last Gasp, and it was there that he had first heard the latest rumors about the 
Last Sea. 

To him, the Last Sea had always been just another legend, something storytellers 
had rumbled about since he could remember. He had never met anyone who 
claimed to have seen the Last Sea, though, and so he had lent no credence to any 
of the tales told about it. Not, at least, until Kirka had stepped through the Last 
Gasp's door. 

Kirka wasn't the most beautiful woman Kabak had ever seen, but he fell in love 
with her almost instantly. She was kind to him in ways that no one had ever been 
before-in ways he hadn't known were possible until he met her. Within a week, 
they were living together in his cramped room in the back of the Gasp. 

It had been her who had first told him about the Last Sea. She claimed to have 
been there-actually to have been born and raised there. If it had been anyone else 
who had told him such a tale, he would have laughed them out of the room. With 
Kirka, though, he believed. 


The 

Wanderer's 

Journal 

The very concept of an 
entire sea of water, a liq 
uid jewel more precious 
than even the grandest 
diamond, defies concep 
tion by most Athasians. 
Few could truly conceive 
of such a place, no 
matter how fertile their 
imagination, no matter 
how flexible their mind. 

To a people for 
whom a single, 
dirty well is a 
fortune, the very 
idea of such 
riches surpasses 
all sensibility. 
Still, even 
among such 
apparent wealth, 
even in such a 
seeming par 
adise, there are 
disappointments 
and dangers. For 
one thing, the 
very water of the 
Last Sea, beauti 
ful and inviting as it may 
seem, is thoroughly 
undrinkable. For another, 
the fine-looking city of 
Saragar is ruled by 
tyrants, the likes of 
which are not to be found 
elsewhere on Athas. And 
the seemingly placid 
surface of the Last Sea 
hides an entire world 
with menaces and 
intrigues all its own. 


7 


After the bar had burned down-following a particularly nasty riot that had start 
ed over the price of wafer (and who was going to waste the precious stuff then on 
saving such a dive?)-Kabak and Kirka had nothing left. It was then that she asked if 
he would accompany her back to her homeland, a place she called Saragar, where 
they would never have to worry about water again. 

Kirka claimed that in Saragar, the greatest city on the shores of the Last Sea, the 
wafer was so plentiful, they gave if away. No one ever went thirsty. What's more, the 
ancient Mind Lords, the protectors of the city that had preserved if since the last age, 
ensured that everyone was always happy. 

It sounded like paradise on Athas. If never occurred to Kabak to ask Kirka why she 
had left in the first place. 

Sighing to push away these old memories, Kabak pushed himself to his feet. Kirka 
had died on the journey here, in an attack by a band of feral halflings. He had 
vowed that he would someday make her killers pay, but if that was to ever happen, 
he would need help. He hoped he would find if in Saragar. 

"Get up, fool," hissed Sahanda. She was twenty feet ahead of him, crouching low 
over a boulder. When she saw that he was all right, she went back to peering over 
the rock and waiting for him to catch up. 

He stumbled over to the rock, growling to keep his mind off the pain as he clam 
bered up behind his guide. She was reaching back to shush him when his growl 
caught in his throat like the dust from the trail (to use the word loosely) had been 
doing all day long. There in the valley below lay the thing he had come so far to see: 
the Last Sea. 

Kabak stared out at the seemingly endless wafer stretched out below. Green vege 
tation crept up nearly to its edges, held back only by a wide strip of bleached sand. 
Strange birds circled high in the sky, diving headlong into the water in some act of 
either suicide or joy, only to burst back out of the blue-green water seconds later, 
something gray wriggling redly in their beaks or claws. White ripples traveled end 
lessly across the surface of the sea. 

"What are those?" he asked, pointing at the ripples. 

The old elf gave him a look of mock disgust. She remembered the first time she 
had beheld these emerald shores. And truth be told, she had then been as ignorant 
as he-not that she would ever admit that to him. Still, his blatant curiosity moved 
her. 

"That's how the wafer moves when the wind blows if from shore to shore. They're 
called waves. " 

Kabak repeated the word as if it held some kind of magic. It felt funny in his 
mouth, yet somehow familiar, as if he had heard it somewhere before, perhaps an 
age ago. 

"You mean this . . . this sea has another shore?" 

Sahanda chuckled coldly, "Of course it does, half-breed. It has to end somewhere, 
doesn't it?" 

Too astonished by the view to even respond to Sahanda's slur, Kabak simply said, 

"I don't know. It doesn't seem so." 

Sahanda stood up and reshouldered her pack. They still had a long way to go. "It 
ends," she said. "Everything ends." 

Many centuries ago, in what was to later be known as the Green Age, water flowed 
freely across Athas's surface. The land was covered with large forests and open fields 
of tall grass waving in the wind, and the soil was dark and fertile. It was an age of 
plenty in which few creatures ever went wanting food, and a drink of clear, cool 
water was never hard to find. 

Things on Athas have changed drastically since that time. The forests are gone; the 
fields of grass have turned to rolling dunes of endless sand; and the vast oceans that 
once separated continents have now been transformed into roiling seas of silt or-at 
best-dangerous mud flats ready to swallow any foolhardy enough to dare tread 
across their sunbaked surfaces. 

Most Athasians will tell you the entire world is drier than a thri-kreen's heart. 
Although not aware of it, they are wrong. 

In the Tyr Region, the Last Sea is a fable, a legend that less scholarly bards use to 


8 


inspire wonder in those too young to have yet become jaded to such tales. Mothers 
sometimes scold their wayward children with ancient tales of the Mind Lords 
vicious creatures who will snatch them up from the deserts should they happen to 
be unfortunate to be caught out in the open after dark. 

More learned people tend to speak of the Last Sea more quietly and seriously. 
Hardly a year goes by, it seems, that someone doesn't launch a much-ballyhooed 
expedition past the Lava Gorge and the Scorched Lands, with the aim of reaching 
legendary Saragar. Some of these excursions attempt to circumvent many of the 
more notable overland barriers by sailing the Silt Sea. This is, of course, an undertak 
ing fraught with perils of its own. 

The final fate of most of these investigatory parties is ever known. Of those that do 
somehow happen to return, the vast majority never managed to locate the lost body 
of water for which they were searching. The scarce remaining few who claim to have 
actually been to Saragar and back regale those willing to listen to them with tales of 
a place that is like a frozen pocket of time, a living museum piece that frightens as 
much as it delights. 

Few people of the Tyr region give these tales any heed, however, regarding such 
ramblings as the results of heat-addled minds, baked by the northern sun to a crispy 
mess. Despite the fact that psionicists have managed to verify that these people hon 
estly believe they are telling the truth, their claims are not generally accepted. After 
all, the mad often construct elaborate fictions upon which to base their insanity, and 
they always find their own lies to be as convincing as the truth. 

There are some people, though, who are less skeptical, who have spent some time 
studying these tales and have found some veracity among them, a set of common 
threads weaving through them all. These scholars have slowly come to believe that 
the accounts gathered down through the centuries are something more than the rav 
ings of lunatic minds. 

Perhaps more compelling man any other evidence are the warnings of Athas's leg 
endary Wanderer. These speak cautiously of the Last Sea and especially so of 
Saragar. 


The Road to the Last Sea 

The Last Sea lies far to the north of the Tyr Region. It is a journey of many weeks to 
go from even the northernmost border of the Tyr Region to the fair city of Saragar, 
and the distance between is filled with horrors unseen closer to Tyr. 

Even more intimidating than the endless rolling dunes of sand that occupy most of 
the intervening distance are the Lava Gorge and the Burning Plains. These two natur 
al phenomena are strangely beautiful, and their savage natures inspire awe in those 
lucky (or perhaps unlucky) enough to witness their ineffable power. 

The Lava Gorge 

The Lava Gorge is a tremendous canyon filled with molten rock which churns within 
it like water churning in a vast sea. Standing out like a gouge in the Athasian crust 
this incredible canyon lays open the planet's seething mantle to the brittle sky. The 
molten rock at its bottom roils like a boiling ocean, caught between the twin pulls of 
the planet's two moons and the gravity of the world itself, which jealously struggles 
to hold its lifeblood. No matter how many years have passed since this enormous 
gash was first inflicted, it seems that this is one wound that will never be healed. 

To come within even a mile of the Lava Gorge is to find oneself nearly overcome 
by the heat. Those hardy few who have managed to get close enough to an estuary 
of the gorge to view the matter within tell of an unearthly beauty that nearly defies 
description by human tongues. Unfortunately, such visits must be short as even in 
the middle of the frigid Athasian night, the lava's heat inevitably forces even the 
most curious to retire to cooler regions. 

Of course, in traveling from the Tyr region toward the lands of the Last Sea it is 
possible to simply circumvent the Lava Gorge, although doing so requires adding 
hundreds of miles to the journey. Once a traveler reaches the other side of the gorge, 


9 


The Last 
Sea Region 




The 

Crimson 
n ru 


/ 

' ./ 


(r) 


Saragsr 






*F 

& 


F r 
"¦ /. 

y 










The Silt Sea 


£T 


The Scorched Plateau 



o 

Moon 

K.ilnncr'a 

l?es£ 

Tradeneit 


Lava Gorge 



O 


I'.; 

J ^ 



Mountains 

HSU 

i 

- Poreut 


'U.Cz 

K,dcLl| Badlands 

B& 

Lake 


it ¦...&¦ 

- i a ¦ 

Stony &arrena 

u " ...-.i, 

i ,u., 

Ur- -**¦ 

Scrub Plains 



Sand^ Waste 

:? -* ¦ r" 

*¦ . "• 

&oulder field 


iliiii 

Mud flair 

• 

V i 1 iage 

" j"f | " 

i j ' ,\A. 4 * 

T-* 

Misty border 

(r) 

City 

|pp 


Grasslands 

i 

o ; 

L^flsjla 

P itt u Wi I 


10 














































though, the most dangerous parts of his expedition are still in front of him. Once he 
finally makes his way off of the Scorched Plateau, he still has to find a way over the 
Thunder Mountains or across the Burning Plains. 

The Burning Plains 

The Burning Plains are one of the most mysterious phenomena on Athas. The 
region's soil is some of the richest remaining on the planet, fertilized by centuries of 
dead grasses mixed into the black earth. Most likely, when a traveler first comes to 
the Burning Plains, he will see vast stretches of tail grasses waving in the dry wind. 

Many newcomers take this as a sign that they have finally reached the Last Sea. After 
all, how could such bounty survive without vast sources of water nearby? 

After walking a ways into the grassy fields, though, the traveler notices that the 
ground below the seemingly serene blanket of burnished white grass is covered in 
blackest ash. These ashes are the result of the countless wildfires that have ravaged 
the Burning Plains. 

Although the prevailing winds off of Marnita occasionally bless the Burning Plains 
with a gentle rain, this water is not enough to keep the grasses from drying to straw 
beneath the terrible rays of the dark sun. Inevitably, whether from lightning or from 
overheated straw spontaneously combusting, fire breaks out on the Burning Plains. 

The desiccated grass goes up in flame like flash paper, and the entire plain is swept 
by a raging inferno. 

More than one group of travelers has met a flaming doom after being caught in 
the middle of the Burning Plains when a wildfire broke out. Since these fires occur 
irregularly and unpredictably, most people wisely give wide berth to these decep 
tively peaceful fields. All too often, the alternative is to become just another cinder 
sifted into the fine ash that coats the ground of the Burning Plains. 

The Thunder Mountains 

For the traveler who decides not to try braving the Burning Plains, the only other 
way to reach the valley of the Last Sea is by somehow traversing the Thunder 
Mountains. These tall, craggy peaks are so named for the fact that they are one of 
the few places on Athas that regularly sees thunderstorms. Due to the dryness of the 
atmosphere of Athas, water from Marnita evaporates into the air above at an aston 
ishing rate. When this warm, damp air tries to escape over the western mountains 
the terrible cold of the heights leeches its moisture as snow and rain. The resultant 
storms ring out for miles around, and the thunder booming from their hearts echoes 
from the rocky peaks, to be heard by people clear across the sea in the city of 
Saragar. 

The Thunder Mountains are steep and, in most places, nearly impassable. There 
are very few passes that cut clear through the high rocks, and in the few places that 
the walls are pierced in such a way, the Mind Lords' security measures ensure that 
none shall pass unhindered. Outside of the valley, legend has it that the mysterious 
and ancient devices which seal the passes have fallen into decay, and in some spots, 
a wayfarer can even walk right into the valley of the Last Sea. But none of the leg 
ends identify clearly where these unguarded passes are to be found. 

The Last Sea 

The Last Sea is the final surviving remnant of the Green Age, a time long since past. 

The lands around it recall happier days, before the coming of the monstrous evil of 
Rajaat and his genocidal Champions. It is a place unspoiled by magic, and its care 
takers-Mind Lords and mortal residents alike-take great pains to ensure that it 
remains that way. 

To most denizens of Athas, the Last Sea is the most amazing sight that they will 
ever behold. Nowhere else on the planet is there a body of water to be found any 
where near as large. In fact, on a world in which an entire town can be founded 
upon the existence of a single murky well, it seems that something as huge as the 


11 





Last Sea would support a metropolis of staggering size, or even an entire nation 
composed of such cities. 

Nothing could be further from the truth. Marnita is surrounded mostly by small 
fishing villages inhabited by people who manage to eke out a living from the sea. 

(Of course, the very idea of having enough water to put a boat on is astonishing 
to most Athasians. Sure, such craft work on the Silt Sea, but that's dirt-tiny pieces of 
solid stuff. How could something like water hold up something as heavy as a boat? 
Upon first hearing the idea, most Athasians think that such a contraption would sink 
like a pebble dropped into a glass of foamy ale.) 

There are three reasons why the Last Sea isn't the site of the densest population 
center on the face of Athas. 

First, the Last Sea is salt water. Most Athasians have run across a pool of foul 
water before, something so brackish as to be undrinkable. To a newcomer, the Last 
Sea must seem like the cruelest joke ever: to have enough water to actually swim in, 
but not to be able to drink a drop of it. The waters of the Last Sea are clear and a 
deep blue-green. They are full of interesting creatures that most Athasians outside of 
the valley have never seen-things such as fish, seaweed, and even sharks and dol 
phins. Sailing ships crisscross the Last Sea's surface like elves skating across the 
dunes that cover the rest of the planet. 

Second, it's not easy for outsiders to get to the Last Sea. It is a long way from Tyr, a 
place from which so few people have been to the Last Sea that they nearly all con 
sider Saragar to be something out of legend. As explained earlier, there are many 
physical barriers in the intervening distance, any one of which can be deadly. 

Third, the Mind Lords like things the way they are within their valley. They have 
set up elaborate security measures (known as the Border of Guardians) to keep out 
siders out and insiders in. For this reason, not even the ssurran traders that make 
occasional trips to rendezvous with envoys from Saragar have managed to settle on 
the shores of Marnita. They simply aren't allowed. 


12 









The People 


The people of the Last Sea live relatively easy lives when compared with those of 
most of the other people on Athas. One thing that visitors might note about the Last 
Sea is that the only races represented here are humans, elves, and dwarves. There 
are no others to be found. 

Occasionally a mul or half-elf might be born to a couple within the region, but 
this is extremely uncommon. There is very little crime in the valley of the Last Sea 
(due almost entirely to the efforts of the Mind Lords and the lawkeepers of Saragar) 
and unwanted advances are nearly unheard of. This means that the parents of such a 
child would have conceived the baby willingly, and since the races of the region 
tend to stick with their own kind, few children of mixed blood are ever born. 

Those mixed-breeds who do exist are assimilated into the society without any 
problems. Unlike in the rest of Athas, where the races each have their own separate 
and distinct culture, in the city of Saragar, the peoples have banded together into a 
homogenous society tolerant of all. Muls and half-elves can truly be accepted here 
for who instead of what they are. 

Of course, outsiders are outsiders. A mul coming to Saragar looking for accep 
tance will encounter just as many problems as a human, elf, or dwarf of pure 
blood-no more, but no less either. 

In general, most people of the Last Sea region are suspicious of outsiders and 
many actually fear them. After all, outsiders are rare, and the people of the Last Sea 
have heard many legends of the descendants of those peoples not lucky enough to 
be protected by the Mind Lords from the ravages that ended the Green Age. The 
nearer to Saragar one goes, the more reactionary people become to the presence of 
outsiders. Within Saragar itself, if the city's lawkeepers get wind of the fact that 
someone has entered the city without authorization, there will likely be trouble for 
everyone involved. 

Among themselves, however, the people of Marnita tend to be relaxed and friend 
ly. Most of the villages around the sea have basically a beach culture in which there 
is little that can't be put off until tomorrow. "Tomorrow," the saying goes, "is the 
busiest day of the week, because that's when everything gets done." 



If Marnita is a wonder, the city of Saragar is a true miracle. The people who live else 
where on the shores of the Last Sea have an average standard of living that's higher 
than just about anywhere else on Athas, with very few exceptions. Saragar is one of 
those exceptions. 

Saragar is an automated city in which all of the drudge work which must be per 
formed by the lower classes in other cities is taken care of by the minds of ancient 
criminals trapped forever in rather ordinary-looking obsidian spheres. The streets are 
kept clean by such apparatuses; cattle are herded, crops are tended, and garbage is 
removed by virtue of these psionic devices, which can be found throughout the 
metropolis. 

Thirty thousand people live in Saragar, about three times as many as live along the 
entirety of Marnita's other shores. These people have a lot of needs, and they gener 
ate a lot of waste. This is all taken care of by the Mind Lords and their spheroid min 
ions. The only price the people must pay for being taken care of so well is that they 
must remain happy. As the Mind Lords say, "Happiness must be maintained." The 
lawkeepers are prepared to execute this directive, literally if need be, at all costs 
Sometimes their solutions to certain problems are "creative," as will be explained 
later. 

In any case, their methods certainly seem effective. There is little or no crime in 
the valley, and matters seem particularly peaceful in Saragar itself. This is due to the 
fact that the lawkeepers can't be everywhere within the valley at once, so they con 
centrate their attentions on Saragar itself, devoting their time to the other cities only 
as needed. Given the enormous number of people in Saragar, as well as the fact that 
the city is home to all three Mind Lords, it only makes sense that the lawkeepers 



concentrate their efforts here. 

There have been some known to call such an effective government oppressive, 
but the people of Saragar believe differently. After all, without the Mind Lords' inter 
vention, their home could very well have suffered the horrible fate that befell the rest 
of the world. 

Mind Lords 

No one knows a great deal about the Mind Lords. After all, it was over nine thou 
sand years ago that they were born, during the height of the Green Age. Since then, 
the entire planet has been transformed by the rampant misuse of magic, from a ver 
dant globe to a ball of desert sand. 

What is known about the Mind Lords is that they are three individuals, somehow 
still in the prime of their health, despite their incredible age. The three are Thesik (a 
male human), Barani (a female human), and Kosveret (a male elf). Together, they rule 
the city of Saragar with an iron fist encased within a velvet glove. While the rest of 
the valley of the Last Sea is also under their protection, people who live outside of 
the city of Saragar are usually left largely to their own devices-until something hap 
pens that demands the Mind Lords' attention. 

The Mind Lords rarely make personal appearances on the streets of their city, but 
they can be seen on the battlements of the palace on festival days (which occur reg 
ularly), watching over their "children." Other than that, they are hardly ever seen. In 
their stead, the Lawkeeper Efkenu, the commander of the lawkeepers, regularly 
holds court in the palace. 

The common people of Saragar have very little interaction with the Mind Lords. 
Only the heads of the Saragan government meet with them at all regularly. Those 
who wish to talk about the experience say that the Mind Lords are the best kind of 
rulers: benevolent dictators with only their people's happiness in mind at all times. 
Few citizens would dare to contradict such an assessment, for fear of their very lives 


14 



Gett 


1 


The 

Wanderer's 

Journal 


Traveling about Athas is 
never easy. The 
omnipresent desert of 
the tablelands is an 
unforgiving and merci 
less foe to any who 
attempt to cross it, and 
the seas of silt are, if any 
thing, even more deadly. 
Traveling from Tyr to the 
Last Sea is no less 


CHAPTER TWO: 

ng There 


hazardous an 
undertaking. 
Once a traveler 
manages to 
escape the Tyr 
Region-in itself 
a not inconsider 
able feat-he 
then must face 
the blistering 
heat of the Lava 


As Kabak rounded the bend in the path, he cursed, for his elven guide was nowhere 
to be seen. She had been little but trouble for him since he and Kirka had met her in 
the lands north of Tyr and persuaded her to show them the way through the inter 
vening lands to the Last Sea. Kirka had always been the diplomatic one, the bridge 
between Kabak and Sahanda, but now she was gone, and the friction between the 
remaining two travelers was at times nearly palpable in its heat. 

Certain that the elven crone would show up sooner or later, as she saw fit, Kabak 
continued down the trait. Here it was overgrown with lush green grasses, the likes of 
which Kabak had only ever glimpsed before, in the gardens of the nobles of Tyr. No 
one else could afford such luxuries back home. 

Here, though, there were plants everywhere - bushes, vines, trees, even colorful 
flowers covered the land as he descended the trail from out of the mountains. This 
place truly did seem to be the paradise that Kirka had spun tales about all those long 
cold nights they spent together in his tiny shack back in Tyr. 

Kirka's stories had turned dark sometimes, though, and at those moments, she usu 
ally cut herself off, as if there were some things she did not wish to remember about 
her homeland. Now, apparently alone in the Thunder Mountains that separated the 
vast sea below from the rest of Athas and its encroaching desert, Kabak wished he 
had pushed his mate a bit harder for details about how the Last Sea had survived 
untouched by the changes that had ravaged the rest of the planet for so many ages. 

Suddenly, his train of thought was shattered, as a long, silver reptilian head 
popped over the rise in front of him. Kabak froze instantly. For a long moment, he 
watched the creature move, seemingly unaware of his presence. 

It slithered forward, bringing the rest of its long, eel-like body up over the crest of the 
hill. It moved slowly, its black eyes the size of dinner plates, scanning back and forth 
searching for prey. Its long flanks-it must have stretched fifty feet from nose to tail - 
glistened wetly as if it had just pulled itself out of the Last Sea itself, still so far away 

Even in the valley, the sun beat down warmly. Kabak figured that the creature 
must have been able to move like lightning to be able to travel so far so without hav 
ing dried in the heat. If it were that fast, there was certainly no way he could outrun 
it. Reflexively, he reached for his sword, resting his hand on its bone hilt. The 


Gorge and the 
inhospitable lands of the 
Scorched Plateau. After 
that, he must cross the 
cacophonous Thunder 
Mountains or-even 
more foolheartedly - 
brave the Burning Plains. 
Then, of course, he must 
still somehow pass 
through the fabled 
Border of Guardians, set 
in place by the Mind 
Lords, specifically to 
prevent entry into the 
valley. Is the journey 
worth the arduous 
trouble? Ah, friend, 
not in my entire life 
have I been witness 
to something more 
worth seeing than the 
Last Sea. If you survive 
the journey, you 
will not regret 
having undertaken it. 


15 


momentary relief he felt drained away like water from a holed bucket when his 
movement attracted the creature's attention. 

The monstrous thing stared at Kabak with flat black eyes, around which no whites 
showed. It began moving toward him tentatively, the webbing of skin that connected 
its front and hind legs together flapping loosely in a breeze he could not feel. Its 
nostrils flared wetly at him as if sniffing him out. 

Then it opened its cavernous mouth and let loose with a horrible roar, its sharp, 
yellow teeth and long, glistening fangs bared for all the world to see. Kabak was sure 
the thing could swallow him whole and would do so if given half a chance. Not see 
ing any other options lying open before him, he drew his sword and charged the 
creature, determined to leave this life as he had entered it: a warrior. 

/As Kabak dashed forward, the enormous reptile raised its head high in the air like 
some tremendous snake having discovered a field mouse to have as an afternoon 
snack. The gladiator howled at it defiantly, racing toward its exposed underbelly 
hoping to be able to pierce its silver smoothness before the creature could strike. 

Halfway to his goal, Kabak realized he would never make it. The thing's many- 
fanged head came rushing down like a load of loose rock tumbling from the moun 
tainside. He raised his sword to meet the creature's strike. If this beast was going to 
make a meal out of him, he was determined to make it pay a price of pain. 

As the teeth swarmed down toward him, Kabak swung his sword forward with all his 
might. Astonishingly, the blade passed through the creature's head as if it were smoke. 

The unchecked momentum of the blow carried the gladiator forward, headlong 
into the creature's body and he stumbled to the rocky ground below. Cursing, he 
blundered about on hands and knees, surprised to discover that he could not see. 

For a dark moment, he figured he had been somehow swallowed into the snake's 
belly without first passing through its mouth. Then he heard Sahanda laughing. 

Kabak scrambled to his feet and found himself standing on the path once again, 
obviously undigested. He looked down and saw that from the waist below he was 
enveloped in the creature's skin. /As it slithered along, it parted around him like a 
stream around a stone, as if he were the butte stabbing out of the Last Sea in the dis 
tance and it were the water surrounding. 

Then there was another roar from above, and Kabak looked up to see the crea 
ture's head diving down at him again. At that moment, he realized he had left his 
sword on the ground. He threw up his arms in a feeble effort to protect himself, 
though he knew it was too late. 

Once again, the creature's head passed right through him. 

The elf's laughter made Kabak realize he had closed his eyes. Opening them again, 
he saw Sahanda standing further down the path from him, doubled over with her 
cackling. He was about to curse her when he saw the monster turn its attention toward 
her. He shouted out a warning as it struck, but it only made her laugh the harder. 

/As the lizard's head and body passed right around Sahanda, Kabak gasped. Then 
he finally figured out what was happening. 

"Is this some trickery of yours, elf?" Kabak bellowed, picking up his sword and 
stomping toward her. 

Sahanda's laughter ceased as she recognized the murderous look in the mut's 
eyes. "No trick of mine, gladiator." She wiped her eyes. The way she said that last 
word, dripping with sarcasm, only fired Kabak's anger. 

She raised her hand before him, and he stopped short. "Hold, warrior, What you 
are seeing dancing around us is but an illusion of a rain drake, a foul creature found 
only in those rare areas in which there is actually some sort of water. It cannot hurt 
you. It is not real. 

"It is a device of the Mind Lords, intended to scare off people more cowardly than 
yourself, a thing part of the Border of Guardians." 

The mul laughed harshly. "These ghosts have managed to keep this place safe for 
so long?" 

"Hardly. Many of the other parts of the Border are stronger, more dangerous. The 
Guardian protecting this path, though, has faltered with the years. It is no substantial 
threat any longer." 

"How did you know the creature was false?" Kabak demanded, confident that his 
senses were no less sharp than the elf's. 


16 


"Rain drakes come out only at night," she explained, gesturing toward the sky, "As 
you can see, the sun shines brightly and would scorch real rain drake's tender skin 
within moments." 

The rain drake lunged at Kabak again, but this time he refused to even flinch. 

"Let's go," he grunted. "I have no patience with such tricks." 

The elf allowed herself one last chuckle before turning back down the path into 
the valley. "You had better learn patience quickly, stubborn one," she admonished as 
they began walking again. "Few things in the valley of the Last Sea are what they 
seem to be." 

The valley of the Last Sea has stood isolated from the rest of Athas for nine millen 
nia. When the time of separation came about, the barriers that the Mind Lords set up 
to keep their charges in and the remainder of the world out were strong nearly 
undefeatable. Nothing could go in or out of the valley without the Mind Lords 
instantly knowing exactly who was making the attempt and why. No one ever suc 
ceeding in piercing the barrier without the Mind Lords' permission. 

Times have changed, though, and the barrier is not nearly as impenetrable as it once 
was. These days, outlanders (as people from outside the valley of the Last Sea are called 
by those who make their homes there) are slightly more common than they once were. 

Such visitors are occasionally seen in the towns and villages dotting Marnita's western 
shore, where the Mind Lords' control is more lax, opposite the city of Saragar. But spot 
ting an outsider in Saragar is still cause for sounding a general alarm. 

Nonetheless, some few outsiders do manage to find their way safely into the capital 
city. Fortunately enough for them, the Mind Lords are far too busy trying to shore up the 
psionic defenses that keep Marnita's fragile ecosystem preserved. They simply don't 
have the time to worry about intruders-unless, of course, they're vegetation-despoiling 
defilers. That's the job of the lawkeepers, Saragar's psionically powered police force. 

Over the millennia, though, even the lawkeepers' legendary vigilance has grown 
a bit lax. Most members of this elite group seem more interested in personal power 
than in keeping the peace. Accordingly, they have also grown more abusive of the 
people they are supposed to protect. The original reasons behind the Mind Lords' 
edicts are often ignored in favor of the letter of the law, or in favor of whatever inter 
pretive stretch the lawkeeper on hand wishes to make. Thus, outsiders can travel 
within Saragar, as long as they avoid calling the lawkeepers' attention to themselves. 

But woe betide the stranger who transgresses a law within that city. Like a nest of 
angry hornets, the lawkeepers will descend upon him, and rather than share his fate, 
the locals will avert their gaze from the "justice" their lawkeepers serve. 

Outside of Saragar, however, there is actually a theory growing that the Mind 
Lords are intentionally weakening the Border of Guardians in order to allow a few 
hardy outsiders in. According to this reasoning, the society of Marnita's valley has 
stagnated for too long, and it is ready for some new blood. Either that or the Mind 
Lords have realized that their time will soon come to an end, and they want to pre 
pare their people for an eventual influx of many outlanders. To give their people a 
preview of the eventual disappearance of the Border of Guardians, then the Mind 
Lords are supposed to have weakened the barrier. They haven't lowered it entirely 
though, as they want only the most powerful and the most determined visitors to be 
able to break through. Thus, these outlanders actually may be in the valley of the 
Last Sea with the Mind Lords' tacit agreement. 

No proof of this theory has been given, however, and of course the Mind Lords' 
aren't talking. As such, the actual reasons for the decay of the Border of the 
Guardians remain a subject of speculation. 

The Thunder Mountains 

The valley of the Last Sea is ringed on three sides by the Thunder Mountains. Only 
the eastern edge lies open to the Burning Plains instead. Together, these nearly 
impassable barriers make a formidable natural fence around the entire valley. 

The Thunder Mountains are so named for the thunder that rings through them dur 
ing the frequent rain storms that batter these towering peaks. Nowhere else on Athas 


17 


do these sounds rumble so regularly as they do here. 

Of course, the Thunder Mountains were so labeled long before the Mind Lords 
determined to cut the valley off from the rest of the world. This had a great deal to 
do with the large population of "crag" giants (an off-shoot of the plains giant race; 

see the MC sheet in the appendix to this book) who lived in the western end of the 

mountains. In ancient days, during thunder storms, these creatures crawled out of 
their caves high in the hills and celebrated until the rain was over. 

This same tribe of giants was subsequently chased out of the mountains by the 
Mind Lords. They were made an offer: stay where you are and be eventually defeat 
ed and exterminated, or concede to our might and move to the Lonely Butte, where 

you will be left alone for all time. A few of the nobler giants resisted, but they were 

quickly destroyed by the powerful psionicists. Soon after, the remaining giants 
accepted the Mind Lords' offer and took up residence on the Lonely Butte. A small 
clan of them remains there to this day. 

The Thunder Mountains are nearly impenetrable, but for three passes. The North 
Pass is rarely used, as few civilized peoples live to the north of Marnita's valley. The 
West Pass is a bit more traveled, but since it cascades out of the mountains and into 
the Crimson Savanna, there are also few visitors coming from that direction. The 
South Pass, on the other hand, is the main gate into the valley of the Last Sea. 

The South Pass 

It's through the South Pass that merchants from Saragar make their twice-annual pil 
grimage to the outlands to meet with caravans from distant Tradenest. It's also the 
means by which most outsiders make it into the valley, especially if they are not 
willing to brave the Burning Plains. 

Because of this, the pass is, of course, the most well-guarded of the valley's 
entrances. The North and West Passes have almost no security measures outside of 
the Border of the Guardians. The South Pass, on the other hand, is guarded by a high 
watchtower. This small fortress is built on the inside of the Border of Guardians, so it 
is mostly a secondary line of defense, one that has rarely been used. 

The watchtower is staffed at all times by a full patrol of 10 proctors and a single 
lawkeeper to watch over them. The patrols keep watch in split shifts of four hours 
each (four hours on, four hours off, four hours on, four hours off, eight hours to 
sleep). This way, they are always relatively fresh and alert. 

Thus, the watchtower holds 30 proctors and three lawkeeper at all times. Fresh 
troops are brought in from Saragar fortnightly. 

At night, the pass is lit by dozens of torches, making it difficult to sneak through 
unnoticed. Nevertheless, sneaky adventurers sometimes find some way to get past 
unnoticed. 

The Great Trade Days 

Every year just before midsummer's and midwinter's eve, the ssurran traders from 
Tradenest make their biannual journey to a sheltered clearing nestled in between the 
Thunder Mountains and the Scorched Plateau. To these meetings, they bring all sorts 
of exotic foods and trinkets, anything that might possibly catch the eyes of the Last 
Sea merchants who are permitted to travel outside of the valley's boundaries for this 
express purpose. 

In exchange, the homelanders (as the denizens of the Last Sea are fond of referring 
to themselves) bring all sorts of unique things to trade: metal weapons, sails made 
from puddingfish hide (in high demand for the extremely different ships that sail the 
Silt Sea), and-most importantly-fresh water (directly from Saragar's desalinization 
plant, making it some of the purest water to be found on the entire planet). 

The Great Trade has become a famous tradition in the valley. At the height of the 
festivals-far and away the two most important holidays in the entire valley-the 
caravans of merchant wagons return from beyond the mountains, overloaded with a 
veritable cornucopia of exotic foods and other items 

People from all across the valley arrive in Saragar for the festivals, and these are 
the only times of the year that the unity these people all feel, regardless of any argu- 


18 


ing they might do the rest or me year, is blatantly obvious. Even the Lizard Men nor 
mally reclusive in their undersea kingdom, surface and join the festivities of the air 
breathers for a few short hours. 

The festivals are also the only times of the year that all of the lawkeepers can be 
seen to act like civilized creatures. Only the most horrid crimes are prosecuted dur 
ing the festivals, mostly because the lawkeepers are having far too much fun and 
can't be troubled to go after someone for something like jaywalking. 

Many of the people who have escaped from or sneaked into the valley of the Last Sea 
have done so during one of these festivals. The security at even the South Pass is notori 
ously lax at these times of year; only five proctors are on watch at any given time and 
they are often caught up in participating in their own miniature version of the festivals. 

Under no circumstances, however, are the merchants ever willing to bring someone 
back across the border with them. They might do so unwittingly, but to knowingly 
invite the terrible repercussions of the lawmakers for such a transgression is something 
that not even the greediest merchant would do-if he valued his life in the slightest. 


The Burning Plains 


The other way to get into the valley of the Last Sea is to cross the Burning Plains. 
While this may seem easy to the untrained eye, the knowledgeable or wise traveler 
will go many miles out of his way to avoid having to traverse such a dangerous 
stretch of land. After all, getting caught in the middle of the Burning Plains is a sure 
way to be transformed (rather unmagically) into a heap of smoking ash. 

At their most innocent, the Burning Plains look like nothing more than chest-high 
fields of waving grass. On a windless day, they look amazingly inviting, and more 
than one unwary traveler has succumbed to this illusion, only to pay for it later with 
his life. If there is any sort of a breeze (80% chance), however, the air above the 
plains becomes hazy with a fine gray ash that sticks to skin and clothing, coating 
just about everything it comes into contact with. 




19 







While the ash can be extremely annoying, gumming nostrils and eyes and clog 
ging throats, it is only a harbinger of disaster to come. The ash is, of course, the rem 
nants of thousands of years of wildfires that have plagued the Burning Plains since 
the Mind Lords closed the borders of the Last Sea nine millennia ago. 

In some places, the ashes have heaped up like massive dunes rising dozens of feet 

into the air. In most places, though, the ash is only knee deep. Still, this has the 
effect of slowing ground traffic across the plains. All overland movement rates across 
the plains are reduced by one third. Since the Burning Plains are 25 miles across at 
their narrowest point, this generally means that any trip across the plains is going to 
require at least two days to complete. 

The grass on the Burning Plains grows extremely quickly, at the rate of more than 

a foot a day, starting at the surface of the ash. The roots of the firegrass (as the Last 

Sea residents call it) aren't very strong, though, and they don't provide enough of a 
network to actually provide a foundation across which travelers can walk. Anyone 
stepping onto the false floor formed by the bottom of the firegrass is in for a surprise, 
as they will instantly fall through the ash to the actual floor of the plains if they 
weigh more than about thirty pounds. 

The same happens to any hapless creatures that wander through the area. The 
Burning Plains are populated, however, by mice, prairie dogs, and even meerkats 
which can walk along the false floor formed by the firegrass roots. They nest in tun 
nels clawed out of the ash, and when a fire comes, they burrow deep into the ash 
and even into the sandy ground beneath. 

Adventurers may be tempted to try the same thing, but they should consider that, 
unlike most humanoids, the local rodents can live on very little air. When the fire 
comes, it can literally suck the oxygen out of the fauna's tiny tunnels if they are not 
sealed against such an occurrence. Unless travelers can accomplish something simi 
lar, they are doomed to suffocate, buried in the ash all around them and trapped 
beneath the raging fire above. 

Flashfires 

The firegrass that grows upon the plain goes up like flash paper every so many days, 
along with everything living above the level of the ash. The chance of a flashfire 
beginning is 25% each day. The chance is cumulative, starting at 25% on the day 
after the last flashfire. This means that flashfires happen at least once every four days 
(25% chance the first day, 50% chance the second, 75% chance the third day, and 
100 % chance the fourth), and generally more often than that. 

The best time to travel on the Burning Plains is the day immediately after a fire 
(fires last 1-2 days), when the grasses are bare shoots above the ash, and there is lit 
tle left to burn. That day, the chance of encountering a flash fire is only 25%. Of 
course, the journey will generally take at least two days, and on the second day the 
chance of a flashfire is already up to 50%. 

For this reason, most travelers do not bother with trying to cross the Burning 
Plains, at least not on foot. Even the Thunder Mountains are more hospitable than 
this blistering land. 

A flashfire starts at a randomly determined point on the Burning Plains. In fact, it 
often starts in a few different places at once. To find the spot closest to the travelers 
in question, roll 1d8 and consult the Random Direction Table to determine the 
direction the fire is from them. Then roll 1d20 to figure how many miles away the 
flashfire begins. If the result would place the start of the fire outside the Burning 
Plains, locate it on the edge of the Burning Plains instead (in the direction indicated). 

The fire then spreads outward, expanding its radius at a rate of 5 miles per hour 
until the entire Burning Plains has been consumed. If it catches up with the travelers, 
each character caught in the fire takes 1d6 points of damage from flames and smoke 
each round. 

The only chance a character caught in a flashfire has is to get out of the fire as quick 
ly as possible. This can be done in a number of innovative ways, but note that any char 
acter caught in the air above a flashfire at an altitude of less than five hundred feet takes 
1d4 points of damage each round from smoke inhalation and scorching heat. 

In any given area, the fire lasts for 2d4 turns before burning itself out, the front of 


20 


the fire having long since passed on. By running in the direction of the fire, a traveler 
canlessen his exposure to only 1d4 turns instead, but figuring out which direction is 
the correct one to run, while caught in the middle of a flashfire, requires a Wisdom 
check. If it is failed, the character will be caught in the fire for 1 dl 0 turns instead. 

The Border of Guardians 

When the Mind Lords entirely isolated Marnita toward the end of the Green Age, 
they did it by installing a large number of psionically powered defense outposts. 

These outposts were connected into a telepathic web that joined the individual 
pieces in a nearly impervious security system. The outposts were each powered by a 
perfect obsidian orb imbued with the psyche of a powerful psionicist. 

During the Green Age, it was common practice to remove a criminal's mind from 
his body and transfer it into just such an orb. The condemned's mental energy could 
then be programmed to perform certain mundane tasks. More powerful minds could 
be made to accomplish correspondingly more powerful and complex tasks. The 
Border of Guardians consists of a tremendous array of these minds surrounding 
Marnita's perimeter and sealing it closed to outlanders and homelanders alike. 

When a traveler tries to pierce the Border of Guardians, it is (theoretically at least) 
intercepted by the guardian (obsidian orb) responsible for the stretch of border the 
character is attempting to pass through. The range of a guardian's power extends for 
up to one mile in any direction along the border in a disk approximately 100 yards 
thick. In this way, the Mind Lords also protected the Last Sea from invaders trying to 
get either under or over the border. 

The Border of the Guardians entirely encircles the valley of the Last Sea, encom 
passing every inch of the Thunder Mountains and the Burning Plains. This may seem 
to be overkill considering the already formidable natural defenses surrounding the 
valley, but the Mind Lords were prepared to leave nothing to chance. In their 
younger days, they personally resolved any problems having to do with someone fly 
ing over or digging under the barrier they had erected, as well as the rare intruder 
who actually managed to pierce it. 

These days, though, things have changed. The obsidian orbs that hold the 
guardians were meant to keep their guests contained, sane, and in control forever. 

Nine millennia of actual testing in the field has resulted in some unforeseen changes 
in the guardians, however. 

Whenever a character tries to cross the Border of Guardians at a some random 
point, roll 2d6 on the Border of the Guardians table below to see what happens. 

The obsidian orbs that house the guardians are each buried 4d4 feet beneath the 
ground, making it difficult if not impossible to locate them directly, much less harm 
them. To all practical purposes, the guardians are basically disembodied psyches that 
can only be harmed by psionic effort (not-so-coincidentally a whole lot like the 
Mind Lords themselves). 

The guardians are under strict orders to allow no one in or out of the valley of the 
Last Sea-unless specifically ordered otherwise by a Mind Lord or lawkeeper-and 
to let only denizens of the Last Sea region back into the valley (again, unless ordered 
otherwise by a person of appropriate rank). They guardians are authorized to use any 
means at their disposal to dispatch any persons they deem to be intruders. If they fail 
to stop an intruder, they are instructed to use their telepathic abilities to send an alert 
down the Border of Guardians until it reaches the lawkeepers in Saragar. 

For more specific information about the guardians, see their Monstrous 
Compendium sheet in the back of this book. 

Once the lawkeepers receive an alert, they evaluate the information that they've 
received and decide whether or not to bother acting on it. Because the guardians 
grow less reliable with every passing year, many false alarms are sent out every 
week. Consequently, it is rare for the lawkeepers to instantly investigate a reported 
breach in the border, unless the report involves a readily identifiable and serious 
threat to Saragar. 

Instead, it is more likely that the lawkeepers monitoring the Border of Guardians 
will simply file the reported incursion away. Most often it will never be looked at 


21 




again unless the lawkeepers have a run in with some undocumented outlanders. 

Then they will pore over the records to try to discover just where and when the new 
comers entered their land. They will then visit the guardian that was bypassed and 
interview it, hoping to learn more about the outlanders-hopefully something that 
they can use against them in a future confrontation. 


Border of Guardians Table 

2d6 Roll Effect 

2 Nothing happens. Happily, the guardian at this point in the border has 
expired. The traveler may walk through unmolested by any guardian and 
with no fear of having the incursion reported to the lawkeepers. 

3 Hey, stop! The guardian is here, but it is mostly useless. It challenges the 
intruders, but it has no real power to back up its threats of mayhem. It 
will, however, notify the lawkeepers of the breach. 

4 Hello! The guardian challenges the intruders, but it is pretty friendly. If the 
intruders don't attack it, it will likely let them pass-unless they are obvi 
ously bent upon harming someone sheltered in the valley of the Last Sea. 

5-8 Confrontation. The guardian telepathically challenges the intruders. Only 

if they have any humanoid denizen of the valley of the Last Sea with 
them will the guardian let them pass. 

9-10 Hold it right there! The guardian challenges the intruders, accosting them 
rather belligerently. It is looking for an excuse for a fight, and it will seize 
upon any that the intruders are willing to give it. 

11 Surprise! The guardian surprises the intruders with an attack. If the intrud 

ers fight back, the guardian responds in kind. Otherwise, it simply follows 
its attack by challenging their right to enter the valley of the Last Sea. 

12 Ambush! Without any warning at all, the guardian attacks. It cares not 

who it is that it is attacking. It considers everyone that crosses its path to 

be a deadly foe. 



22 












CHAPTER THREE 


The 

Wanderer's 

Journal 

The current situation in 
any locale is always 
inextricably linked to 
its past. The valley of 
the Last Sea is no 
exception to this 
rule, and in fact, this 
verity holds more 
truly there than in 

many other locations. 
Ruled as it is by a 
triune of power- 

• ful psionicists 

• reported to each 

have been 


Last Sea History 


The sun was falling toward the horizon as Sahanda called a halt to their march, "We 
camp here," she stated flatly and then set to readying the camp for the rapidly 
encroaching night. She and Kabak were still in the foothills of the mountains, and 
she had chosen a cozy hollow for their bed. 

Trailing behind her, still on the crest of the last hill, Kabak stopped where he was 
and turned to watch the sun's dying rays as they reflected off the rippling waves of the 
last Sea. Not a poetic mul-some would claim that a contradiction in terms, though 
he knew better-he was stunned by the amazing beauty displayed before him. 

The sun's fiery sphere had become easy to look at, almost pleasant, not at all like 
the blinding fury of midday. As it rode further down the heavens, it got darker and 
more bloated until it became a flat red disk hanging against the darkening sky. 

Kabak thought that he had never seen a red so pure and clean. It was the color that 
blood should be but wasn't, filled as it was with the impurities of life. 

The reflection of sunlight on the water formed a crimson roadway that stretched 
from the far sky to the near shore. Kabak could almost convince himself that, if he 
could reach that road, he could step upon it and it would hold his massive weight, 
fashioned though it was of nothing more than daydreams and light. And if he could 
race along it fast enough, then maybe he could even catch up with the sun before it 
set and ride it on its long journey through the night. 

He started forward to do just that, although he knew he'd never make it, and 
Sahanda growled at him. "Quit staring at the pretty lights and give me a hand here, 
half-breed. The sun will still be there tomorrow, but if we don't get some shelter set 
up here, we won't." 

Kabak knew she was exaggerating, so he ignored her and continued to watch the 
sun as it buried itself in the sea, looking like it was flowing down the bridge of light 
right into the still-distant shore. At the moment it finally disappeared, somehow it 
seemed as if the brilliance had poured itself entirely into the sea. 

At that instant, a great monstrous shape breached the far-off waves, hurling itself 
into the air. For one tenuous second, Kabak imagined that it would sprout wings and 
fly like the much smaller skyfish they had seen circling the mountains. Instead, it 
crashed back into its own roiling wake, splashing water high into the sky. 


whelped over 
nine millennia 
ago, the city of 
Saragar, in 
particular, can 
truly be said to 
be ruled by its 
history in more 
ways than one. 
While the longevity of 
the Mind Lords has 
permitted truly long- 
sigh ted governing, it has 
also been a source of 
stagnation, and 
inevitable decay. Few 
new ideas have come to 
the Last Sea region over 
the millennia, and it is 
this fact which may 
prove to be the valley's 
ultimate doom. 


23 




/As the last rays of the sun stabbed through the fine mist, Kabak suddenly saw a 
burst of color, an entire spectrum of reddish light, and he gasped. It seemed he had 
truly found Kirka's paradise, the one she had spun tales of while they huddled togeth 
er late at night in his run-down shack in one of the many poorer quarters of Tyr. 

Why? he had asked her. How could she have ever left such a place behind? The 
deserts of the Tyr Region seemed even more harsh and inhospitable when compared 
to such a wondrous land. 

/As darkness settled, Kabak looked off to the east to see the stars peeking out into 
the swelling, purplish night. He let loose a long careful sigh and thought about how 
much he missed Kirka, how much he wanted her here to share this time with him. 

Shaking these thoughts from his head, the mul snorted once and then went to 
help Sahanda with the preparations for the night. Later, in the darkness, Kabak told 
Sahanda of the things that he'd seen. "Why didn't you stop to watch the sunset?" he 
asked. "You surely could have spared the time." 

He could almost hear her sardonic grin. "I've seen such things before, city boy. 

The things I've seen . . . they'd curl your hair, if you had any. They make that sunset 
seem like a campfire." 

Kabak grunted. Sahanda the world traveler was too jaded to appreciate any of it any 
more, he was sure. But he was not so callused yet. "I think I'll stay here," he finally 
said as the warm wind from the sea caressed his skin. "I can't imagine a better place." 

Sahanda cackled softly as she fell off to sleep. "You've got a lot to learn yet, mul. 

A lot to learn." 

Over nine millennia ago, three powerful psionicists served as advisors to the law 
maker of the fine city of Saragar, itself an emerald jewel even at the height of the 
Green Age. At their ruler's behest, this trio of mental giants peered into the future to 
learn what they could about the fate of their fair city. They hoped to discover that the 
city would prosper throughout the ages, maintaining its nearly unrivaled reputation 
as a seat of order and learning. 

Instead, they witnessed Athas's doom. 

Determined not to let this fate befall themselves or their chosen city, the three 
came up with a grand scheme to wrest control of Saragar, and indeed the entire val 
ley of the Last Sea. By cutting off all contact with the outside world, they would be 
able to preserve the entire region just as it had always been, a fertile and festive land 
to be enjoyed by all who lived within. 

At least, that was the plan. 



of the Minds 


In many ways, the Mind Lords succeeded in putting their designs into practice. But 
time has a way of running its course no matter what obstacles might be put into its 
way. Inevitably it catches up with everyone, even the Mind Lords. Even so, this 
immutable fact didn't give them much pause for thought. 

The first of the Mind Lords was Thesik, a powerful psionicist who split his time 
between serving Saragar's lawmaker and acting as the dean of the Psionic Academy 
of Saragar, the most renowned institution of the higher education on all of Athas. 
Students flocked from all over the globe to study at the feet of the masters of the 
Way, and in even such celebrated company, Thesik's talent shone. 

His second in command and his right-hand in all matters was Kosveret, a gifted 
elf with almost as much psionic power as Thesik, but not nearly as much ambition. 
The two had been close friends from soon after the day that they had first been 
admitted to the academy in the same entering class. They both were excellent stu 
dents who elected to stay on after their graduation to do further research, and to 
share their gifts with the students to come after them. 

One such pupil was a young lady named Barani. Her incredible beauty was 
matched only by the prowess of her mind, and she instantly became Thesik's favorite 
student. In fact, for a while, Thesik and Kosveret competed for Barani's attentions, but 
in this matter as in most others in which the two competed head to head, Thesik's 
desire simply outweighed that of Kosveret, and Thesik won Barani's affections. 


24 


A Dark Visitation 


All the while, Thesik and Kosveret never let their romantic rivalry get in the way of 
their research. After all, they were working on a project of immense importance to 
the lawmaker of Saragar, a man named Mareet. One night many years ago, he was 
visited in a vision by an image from the future. That one night changed his life forev 
er and would have ramifications for the entire Last Sea region, ramifications which 
would long outlast his own reign. 

In the vision, a person came to him with a warning. The visitor seemed somehow 
familiar, but it was difficult to tell why, as his visage changed dramatically from one 
moment to the next. In the space of a minute, the visitor wore as many as seven 
faces. The ones he wore most frequently, however, were those of Thesik, Kosveret, 
Barani, and even Mareet himself. 

Wearing Mareet's own face, the man in the vision spoke to the lawmaker. He 
said, "I have come from millennia into your future to bring you a message, a warn 
ing of things to come." 

Next, he transformed into Thesik. "It is hard to reach back from so long away, but 
if you do not heed my words, all will be lost." 

By now, Mareet was becoming upset. "What are you talking about, stranger? 

What have we of Saragar to fear?" 

The mysterious visitor then metamorphosed into Barani. "They have become too 
powerful. They are mad. They must be stopped." 

Mareet was confused. "Of whom are you speaking, stranger?" he asked. 

The man then changed into Kosveret. "I feel my mind slipping. To help the future, 
you must take action today. If not, the others will have my head." 

With that, the vision slowly faded away. Mareet called out to him, pleading for 
him to come back, but it was too late. 

The lawmaker immediately sent for Thesik and Kosveret, the two faces he had rec 
ognized from the vision (he had yet to meet Barani). When they arrived, he related 
everything that had happened to him that night. They were confused by his story and 
unable to offer any sort of elucidation. Still, at his direction, they probed his mind 
and discerned that he was telling them the truth. 



Mareet immediately charged the duo with performing a great task for him. They 
were to find some way to pierce the veil of time and peer into the future to discover 
just what it was that the strange visitor had been trying to warn him about. 

At first, they told him it was madness. It was blatantly impossible. No one had 
ever been able to look so far down the stream of time before. 

Mareet ignored such protests and immediately set them to work, placing the 
entire assets of the Psionics Academy at their disposal. But they were sworn to secre 
cy about the contents of his vision. If the people were to learn of this happenstance, 
it might cause a general panic. 

To give Thesik and Kosveret the power to carry out his demands, Mareet immedi 
ately promoted them to vice-deans of the academy. They were to report only to him, 
and he would make sure that the current dean gave them no interference of any 
kind. 

While the pair's sudden and radical ascension to their new positions was cause 
for much gossip in the academy's halls, there was no contesting the lawmaker's 
word. The two psionicists were given free reign to carry out his unusual request. 

The research for the Great Task (as it became known in the duo's lab) was 
painstakingly hard and time-consuming. It took Thesik and Kosveret several years 
before they had even the principals down of how to move along the time stream. 
Mareet was unhappy with their slow rate of progress and often voiced his displea 
sure, but the two psionic masters simply reminded him that his nocturnal visitor had 
claimed to have come from millennia into the future. A few years of careful research 
could hardly matter when placed squarely against such an expansive backdrop. 


25 




In the meanwhile, the two plugged away at their experiments, teaching an occa 
sional advanced-level class to keep up the appearance of actually being involved 
with the academy on any kind of academic level. It was in one of these classes that 
Thesik first met Barani. 

Barani was such a promising student that Thesik soon made her his personal assis 
tant. They worked long hours together on the Great Task, and during the time that 
they spent together, they became very close. 

It was during one of Mareet's irregular visits to Thesik's study that Barani's fate 
became inextricably linked with Thesik's. When Thesik introduced his young protege 
to the lawmaker, Mareet fainted dead away. 

When he awoke, he identified Barani as one of the faces that the mysterious 
stranger had worn in that midnight visit years ago. He insisted on making Barani's 
position as Thesik's helper permanent, and he pulled the young psionicist from any 
other duties. She would work under Thesik toward her degree, but this was only as a 
secondary goal to helping in the Great Task. 

In this way, the three people who would become the Mind Lords of the Last Sea 
were united. 

Great Leap 

The years wore on slowly. Barani got her degree and was eventually made a vice 
dean. Thesik took over for the old dean when he retired. Kosveret, the great theoreti 
cian, wore away at the Great Task like water dripping onto a stone. Eventually, he 
broke through. 

It was almost 20 years after Mareet had been visited in the middle of the night by 
the man with multiple faces, but all the hard work and perseverance finally paid off. 
Kosveret came to Thesik with his findings, and they decided to keep the news a 
secret from the lawmaker until they had been able to use this new breakthrough in 
the way Mareet wanted: to enter the future and find out what it was the visitor was 
trying to warn him about. 

They let Barani in on their triumph, and she insisted on being the first to make the 
attempt to move through the millennia. Thesik was hesitant at first, but Kosveret 
pointed out that they would be better able to monitor her progress from the vantage 
of Thesik's study and consequently be able to step in quickly should something go 
wrong. If either of them were to go and encounter difficulties, his mind might be 
trapped forever in the future with no single person in the past powerful enough to 
step forward and free him. 

So Barani went first. 

She leapt almost three millennia into the future, landing in the time of the 
Cleansing Wars. What she saw there nearly broke her heart. The once-fertile land 
had been turned into a barren desert, and Marnita itself had dried up and blown 
away, leaving hapless Saragar a rapidly decaying monument to a long-lost age. 

When she returned and told the two men what she had found, they were filled 
with disbelief. They could not comprehend that their age of enlightenment could be 
wiped so cleanly from the planet's face. To think that all of their accomplishments 
and hard work would be for naught flew in the face of everything they had ever 
worked for. There had to be something that they could do to avoid this fate. 

The next year was filled with many more trips to the future, this time by all three 
psionicists, individually and all together. With each voyage, the reasons for the 
downfall of the planet became increasingly more obvious. The defilers would 
destroy Athas with their magic, especially Rajaat and his foul Champions. 

Once the trio ascertained the means of the Green Age's destruction, they informed 
Mareet of their findings. The lawmaker was horrified by the news, and it almost 
stopped his aging heart. When he recovered from the shock, he notified the three 
researchers that he was going to go public with the information. He believed that 
only a ground swell of grass-roots activism against the development of magic could 
put a halt to the oncoming disaster that would spell an end for the Green Age. 

26 


The Reins of Power 

The three master psionicists who had looked into the distant future for the lawmak 
er disagreed vehemently with his response to the problem that faced Saragar and 
indeed all of Athas. Unlike Mareet, they had seen their planet's destiny firsthand 
and they didn't believe that Athas could be saved by some kind of public relations 
campaign. More drastic measures were called for, and they were just the people to 
implement them. 

They immediately agreed as to what had to be done. Emotionally scarred by their 
vision of the future, the trio were cynical about human nature, disbelieving that 
anything could be done to prevent the rise of magic across the world. They decided 
instead to cut their losses and at least save Saragar. 

The three asked Mareet for a private meeting before he made their findings pub 
lic. They argued with him, trying to get him to come around to their point of view 
but he stubbornly refused. In a moment of fury, Thesik reached into Mareet's mind, 
overcoming his formidable personal defenses, and made it his own. 

At first, the other two were stunned by the horrible crime that Thesik had com 
mitted. In the Green Age, there was no greater transgression than to take another's 
mind. Still, considering the danger facing their world, they weren't about to turn 
him in. 

Faced with a lawmaker entirely under his control, Thesik made a proposal to his 
compatriots which they readily accepted. They would rule Saragar through Mareet, 
making and implementing public policy as they saw fit. Seeing as how it seemed 
that Mareet was unwilling to budge on his plan to take the trio's findings about the 
future public, Barani and Kosveret assented to Thesik's quickly concocted scheme. 

Over the next few years, the three psionicists steered the city of Saragar in the 
direction that they desired. They gradually engineered things so that the denizens of 
the Last Sea became more and more isolated from the world around them. Given 

















the geography of the region, this wasn't too difficult to accomplish. 

Two decades after Thesik occupied Mareet's mind, they finally allowed the old 
man to die, but not before he named the three of them the new lawkeepers for life. 

At the time, no one knew that the three people who would someday become known 
as the Mind Lords of the Last Sea would outlive nearly everyone else on the planet. 

Border Raising 

In the Green Age, criminals were punished severely. Their psyches were enslaved 
(much in the way that Thesik took Mareet) and then transferred from their bodies 
into an obsidian orb. These orbs were then programmed to perform certain specific 
functions, such as acting as part of a communications system or directing traffic at a 
busy intersection. In times of a shortage of real criminals, members of the under 
class were taken instead, on one pretext or another. 

As for the privileged classes, they led pampered lives, having to fear for little and 
having to do even less. The orbs did everything for them. The orbs were seemingly 
foolproof and tireless. They were incapable of revolt or even insubordination. They 
cared for the niggling details of life, and very little ever escaped their attention. 

For this reason, the people of Saragar were well prepared to accept things when 
the Mind Lords proposed the raising of the Border of Guardians. By this time, the 
use of magic was on the rise in the world, and its detrimental side-effects were 
becoming well documented. Faced with the destruction magic was causing, the 
people of the Last Sea were definitely less than reluctant to go along with the Mind 
Lords' plan to protect their fair city from this ravaging new force. 

The placing of so many obsidian orbs (now known as guardians because of their 
new duties) was a monumental undertaking, and the streets of Saragar were 
scoured of the poor and downtrodden to make up the number of guardians that 
were needed. There was some protest at this sweeping action, but those who spoke 
too loudly were simply enslaved themselves. 

As for those in power, comfortable in the knowledge that they themselves would 
be unaffected by the Taking (and in fact would benefit quite nicely from it), few of 
the elite even thought of complaining. 

When the border was first erected, it was purportedly designed simply to protect 
the valley from the use of magic. No wizards of any kind were permitted to enter 
the valley, and any who were found therein were either chased out or run down 
and enslaved. Since Saragar was the home of the Psionics Academy, it was hard to 
find a single person in the region who disagreed with this policy. 

As the years wore on into decades, centuries, and even millennia, though, the 
Border of Guardians got tighter and tighter. At the same time, the Mind Lords' grip 
on the citizens of Saragar constricted as well. This was cemented at the time of the 
darkening of the sun. 

While the rest of Athas was being turned to desert in the Cleansing Wars, the 
Mind Lords were busy creating the Burning Plains, sealing off the open end of the 
two arms of mountain range that Marnita nestled between. In this, they were aided 
by the defilers in that the ecology of Athas had been so destroyed that it made it 
much easier to manipulate it to their ends. While they found it impossible to heal 
the damage the Champions had done outside of the valley of the Last Sea, they 
were able to transform the Burning Plains into a deadly mockery of the open fields 
of grass that they had once been. 

Eventually, no one was allowed in or out of the valley of the Last Sea without the 
permission of the Mind Lords, or of the lawkeepers who acted as their rulers' prox 
ies. The tyranny of the Mind Lords was complete, and they had taken so long in 
implementing their master plan that almost no one had even noticed it happening. 
At each step along the way, the denizens of the Last Sea simply took each new 
measure in stride. By the time it was over, they had given away most of the rights 
that most Athasians had taken for granted. 


28 


The Assault on the Last Sea 

At the height of the Cleansing Wars, the Champion of Rajaat known as Keltis, 

Lizardman Executioner, came calling at Saragar. He had been charged by Rajaat 
with the eradication of the lizard men from the face of the planet, and the colony of 
creatures living beneath the surface of Marnita definitely qualified as being on his 
list of things to kill. 

Keltis brought over a thousand elite troops to the borders of the Last Sea, ready to 
waltz in and massacre the lizard men who waited for them in the sea itself. This was 
truly the Mind Lords' greatest nightmare come to pass: a defiler of almost unheard of 
power come knocking at their door, demanding to be let in. 

For a while, the Mind Lords considered turning the lizard men over to Keltis in 
order to save the rest of the valley from his wrath. Getting all of the lizard men to 
comply with this desire would have been problematic, though, as they could hide in 
the bottom of the sea indefinitely. Instead, then, the Mind Lords called in the current 
lizard king for a meeting. 

Within the week, the gates of the South Pass through the Thunder Mountains were 
opened to Keltis-under the condition that he not use any defiling magic while in 
the valley. He was to inspect the valley for the lizard men he believed were there, 
and then to leave. If he found any of the creatures within the borders of the Mind 
Lords' domain, he could continue his assault on the Barrier of Guardians, but if he 
came up empty, he would then go on his way. 

Ever a canny warlord, Keltis agreed to the Mind Lords' conditions. He entered the 
valley of the Last Sea alone, protected only by his own phenomenal power. Once 
inside, he was escorted to the Mind Lords' palace by the chief lawkeeper herself. 

The Mind Lords met with the dread Champion of Rajaat and told him that there 
had indeed once been a colony of lizard men in the Last Sea, but they had sadly 
died out years ago. They took him to what they said was the site of the last lizard 
man village, to allow him to inspect it. It was, in fact, a real lizard man village that 
the creatures had abandoned soon after the darkening of the sun. The new rays that 
fell from the sky were too harsh for their skin, and so they retreated entirely to the 
safety of the depths of the sea. 

Keltis seemed satisfied that the lizard men were gone, but he was hardly going to 
simply take the Mind Lords' word for it. Breaking their agreement, he stepped back 
and cast a powerful spell designed to ferret out the location of any lizard men in the 
entire valley. A circle of ash spread out around him for a dozen yards, but when he 
was done, he reported that he had ascertained that the Mind Lords were telling the 
truth: there were no lizard men living in the valley of the Last Sea. 

Satisfied that he had no more business in the Mind Lords' domain, Keltis bid them 
farewell and left, taking his army with him back across the recently renamed 
Scorched Plateau. 

When he was long gone, the Mind Lords 
returned to the bottom of Marnita and 
released all of the lizard men from the sus 
pended animation they had placed upon 
them. Keltis's divination spell had been 
correct. No lizard men had been alive 
when the magic was cast, but neither were 
they dead. Revived now, they returned to 
their former lives beneath the sea, forever 
indebted to the Mind Lords for saving them 
from the horrible fate that befell every other of their 
kind at Keltis's hands. 



29 


The 

Wanderer's 

Journal 

The Triune Mind Lords 
of the Last Sea are some 
of the most mysterious 
characters in any 
Athasian legend. Few 
facts are known for 
certain about these 
beings, and most of even 
this information has been 
so interwoven with 
fiction over the 
millennia that it 
is impossible to 
tell where the 
truth lies any 
longer. 

Still, by now 
the Last Sea is 
an extension of 
the Mind Lords' 
will in a very 
real sense. 

Boundaries 

between creators and 
their creation have 
blurred over the years, 
and for this reason, to 
understand anything 
about the Mind Lords is 
to understand something 
about the Last Sea and 
all of its people. 





Al 

CHAPTER FOUR: 

The Mind Lords 


When Kabak awoke, Sahanda was nowhere to be found. Figuring that she was out 
hunting up some fresh food or scouting out the territory, the mul set to packing up 
his gear. When he had finished, she still hadn't returned, so he set about collecting 
her things together as well. He could smell the sea off in the distance-dreams of 
the water had tantalized him all night long. He was eager to be on the way. 

The sun had entirely cleared the mountain tops when Sahanda finally entered the 
camp. She was empty handed and wore a deep scowl on her face. Kabak greeted 
her in kind. 

"Where have you been?" he growled at her. ''The day is wasting." 

She snarled at him. "Fear not, Kabak. The one thing I've got plenty of is time." 

He got to his feet and tossed a chunk of cheese and a hunk of bread at the elf. 

"We eat while we walk," he said flatly. 

She caught the food and then tossed it back. "I'm not hungry." 

Kabak looked her up and down. "Suit yourself." 

The elf nodded silently, turned toward the distant water, and took the lead. 

They walked together because the land was becoming open and easy, although 
they were still in the foothills of the mountains. They could only sometimes see the 
sea, and when they could, Kabak's wishes to quickly reach it warred with his equally 
strong desire to slow down to watch it as long as possible before it disappeared 
behind the rise of another hill. 

As they crested a particularly large knoll, the sea suddenly lay out before them, 
the sun sparkling off its crystalline surface. Sahanda suddenly broke the silence. "Tell 
me, mul, why is it that you have come here?" 

He snorted. "It was Kirka's idea." 

"Yes, of course. But she's dead now. Why carry on? This was her dream, not 
yours ." 

Kabak looked into the elf's eyes and saw something that closely resembled honest 
curiosity. He grimaced and thought for a moment before answering. "It wasn't all 
Kirka's idea. I pushed her into it, in fact. She didn't really want to come back." 

Sahanda arched her eyebrows in mock surprise. 

Kabak shook his head. He didn't like talking about it much, but he supposed 
Sahanda deserved an answer. She'd been with him this far after all. 


30 


"Kirka grew up here, and she risked her life to get out. She was afraid of the peo 
ple who rule this place, these Mind Lords." He paused for a moment when it 
seemed to him that the elf might be quietly laughing. 

Sahanda coughed loudly. "Excuse me. Go on." 

Kabak looked back down at the trail. "I don't know. This place always sounded 
like paradise to me." He looked all around himself, up at the mountains behind 
them and down at the sea below. "I haven't seen anything yet to change my mind." 

"Well," said the elf, and this time Kabak was almost sure she was giggling, "the 
day's still young." The conversation ended there. 

When they came out of the foothills several hours later, it was all Kabak could do 
to keep from running right down into the waves of that beautiful bounty of water. 
There was still a small wood between them and the sea, and they picked their way 
through the trees slowly and carefully. 

As they were nearing the outer edge of the wood, a bloodthirsty scream suddenly 
split the air, silencing the sounds of everything else around. Kabak looked up just in 
time to see Sahanda diving out of the trees and attacking . . .another Sahanda! 

The diving elf passed directly through the one walking on the ground as if one of 
them weren't actually there. Kabak drew his sword immediately, but then stood 
dumbfounded, unsure of what to do. While he was trying to figure out which 
Sahanda to side with, the answer suddenly became all too clear. 

While he watched, the Sahanda whom Kabak had been walking with turned blue, 
then green, then gray. Finally she settled on a bright shade of red. "Foul impostor!" 
the other Sahanda cried as she swung at the double again with her knife, the blade 
passing right through her target. 

By now, Kabak had a good idea of which old elf was which, but if Sahanda 
couldn't touch the creature, he doubted he'd have any luck himself Instead, he 
reached deep into his mind and then lashed out with a blast of pure mental energy. 
He felt something connect for a second and then skitter off wide, leaving the target 
mind unharmed. 

The double leaped up into the air, soaring twenty feet above Kabak's head. It som 
ersaulted three times, and when it landed back on the ground in front of him, it now 
looked like Kabak instead. 

"Hello, my friend!" said the double as it reached out a hand to greet him. Startled, 
Kabak almost responded in kind. But he remembered himself just in time, and 
lashed out with his mind again, this time searching for a way of affecting the baser 
parts of the thing's psyche. Again, he felt his effort fail. 

"Ah, ah, ah." His mirror image waved a finger back at him in chastisement. "No 
fair hitting below the belt." The mock mul leapt over Kabak's head. When the ex 
gladiator turned around, he saw Kirka standing before him. 

Just then, Sahanda stepped forward and pierced the beautiful woman's chest with 
her blade. Kirka looked up at her angrily and spat, "My lady I am trying to have a 
conversation here, and you are growing to be a real annoyance." Daggers suddenly 
flew from Kirka's eyes-quite literally-and embedded themselves in Sahanda's chest. 

Kabak was sure the daggers were little more than an illusion, but he could feel the 
psionic wave of force that accompanied them. Sahanda reached up and grabbed her 
head, and blood began pouring from her nose. Sensing what was coming, Kabak 
dove at the false Kirka, but it was too late. He passed right through the creature as 
Sahanda had, and by the time he scrambled back to his feet, the elf guide-his 
friend, he finally realized-was dead. 

Enraged, Kabak cursed himself for never having studied the Way. Still, he used his 
anger to find his center and focus every ounce of mental energy he had into attack 
ing his opponent's mind. In one incredible blast, he caught the creature squarely and 
sent its image sprawling to the ground. 

When it got up, it had transformed into a tall, blond elf of a kind that Kabak had 
never seen. He almost looked . . .royal. Strangely enough, he was smiling. 

"That actually hurt," he said, in surprise. "It's been a long time since anyone's 
been strong enough-or in your case, lucky enough-to hurt me." 

Sure that this was the end, Kabak reached back into his mental reserves to find 
something with which to defend himself, but he was entirely spent and wholly at the 
elf's mercy. 


31 


m 



The stranger seemed to sense his thoughts and grinned even more wildly. "I think 
I'm going to enjoy having you around. I won't even tell the others you're here. Just 
watch your step or you'll end up like her." He glanced sadly down at Sahanda. "You 
know , in her own way, she loved you." Then he looked up and winked at Kabak. "Be 
seeing you!" he said, before vanishing as if he had never been there at all. 

The Mind Lords of the Last Sea are creatures out of legend. It seems only fair to call 
them creatures, as they have long since left behind being anything like human or 
even elf. Now they sit ensconced in the same sort of obsidian orbs that slaves were 
regularly forced into in these rulers' younger days, their life forces essentially made 
immortal, even as their minds decay for the lack of their bodies. 

They weren't always this way, though. Once, when the deserts that now cover 
Athas from pole to pole were tall fields of long grass interspersed between lush 
bands of verdant jungle, the Mind Lords were people. They had ambitions. They 
hated. They loved. 

Today is nothing like yesterday, even in the land of the Last Sea, a place where 
time seems to have stood still for ages. It might be better to say that the valley side 
stepped time rather than avoided it altogether. The days in Saragar pass at the same 
rate as in Tyr. They just do so differently. 

Thesik 


Thesik, first among the theoretically equal Mind Lords, was once a 
young man who grew up in Tyr Region in the days before the Cleansing 
Wars and the Age of the Sorcerer-Kings. Tall and sandy haired with 
bright blue eyes, the kind that reflect back as impassively as the side of 
a glacier, he was gifted with a great amount of the Will. As a young lad, 
he was sent to Saragar to learn what he could of the Way. 

His dazzling grin and easy way quickly won him many friends at the 
Psionic Academy. Even his chief rivals found it hard to hate or even 
resent him. In time, however, they would find that he would give them plenty of rea 
son to view him with all the enmity in their souls. 

Thesik was an ambitious man from his early days, and far and away the best stu 
dent to ever attend the academy. During his years as a student and an associate pro 
fessor at the academy, he made a great deal of time for socialization. To him, his 
studies were so simple that they afforded him a great deal of luxury. 

It was during this period of his life that he met Kosveret. As the two top students at 
the academy, they spent a great deal of time together. They discovered that only in 
each other could they ever find anything approximating a challenge, and they became 
fast friends, always spurring each other on to greater heights, whether in the classroom 
or in the course of pursuing the ultimate practical joke to play on their professors. 

Kosveret 

A simple elf from the area now known as the Crimson 
Savannah, Kosveret was tall and thin, even for an elf, with 
long brown hair and steel-gray eyes. He came to the 
Psionics Academy at a tender age, particularly considering 
his race. Still, he had quickly learned all that his home's 
psionic masters had to teach him as a child. It soon became 
obvious that only at the academy itself would he find the 
resources to progress further down the path of the Way. 

When he first arrived in Saragar, Kosveret was a quiet 
student. Even back in the Green Age, elves were greatly outnumbered in Saragar by 
the other races, and he felt quite alone and often homesick. To distract himself from 
his feelings, he hurled himself into his work. He would often spend weeks on end 
without ever leaving the academy compound. After all, everything he needed for his 
work was here. He saw no need to go anywhere else. 




3 2 



One night while he was working late in his room, he heard a knock at his door. 

When he opened it, he found that someone had leaned a full barrel of water against the 
door. It was so heavy that, even though he pushed against the door with all his might, 
the barrel's contents spilled into his room, leaving him standing in a full inch of water. 

The war of practical jokes had begun. 

Some elves in Kosveret's position might have taken such offense to this sort of an 
act as to actually pack their bags and head home. But for the first time since he'd 
come to Saragar, Kosveret had finally found himself a true challenge. The last thing 
on his mind was leaving. 

Kosveret was patient about his revenge, though. He spent the next day listening 
around the library, hidden behind stacks of weighty tomes. The barrel trick was the 
talk of the student body, and eventually Kosveret overheard the name of the person 
who had "pranked" him: It was Thesik. 

From there it was only a matter of coming up with a suitable prank with which to 
retaliate. Kosveret gave it barely a moment's thought before he had the answer. 

He went to the Blind Pig, a tavern in town where Thesik was known to spend 
many a night carousing with his classmates amongst the fishermen from the docks. 
When he entered the place, everyone fell silent. Not everyone recognized him, but 
Thesik certainly did. The sea of people in the room parted between the two. 

Kosveret nodded to everyone and then walked over to sit down across from Thesik 
at his table. For a moment, Thesik ignored the elf. Thesik was the smartest and most 
popular student in town, and he was actually starting to believe all the stories told 
about his genius, thinking himself destined to be the greatest psionicist who ever 
lived. As true as this might have eventually turned out to be, it certainly wasn't the 
case that night. 

Thesik finally asked, "Can I do something for you, elf?" a look of casual contempt 
on his face. 

Kosveret smiled. "Actually, no. I was hoping I could do something for you. We 
seem to have gotten off on the wrong foot-somehow." 



33 



































Thesik laughed. "I don't have the slightest idea what you're talking about, elf. I've 
got nothing against you." 

"Well, then," Kosveret returned Thesik's grin. "Would you allow me to get you a 
drink? What are you having?" 

Thesik was confused, but his grin grew wider. "That'd be fine, elf. I'll have an 
ale-a big ale." 

"As you wish." 

Kosveret was almost out of his chair by the time the "drink" arrived. He had 
psionically teleported the contents of an entire barrel of ale into the air over Thesik's 
head. The elf was already in the street outside the tavern before Thesik realized why 
he was suddenly soaked in several gallons of premium ale. 

Kosveret ran laughing all the way home. 

The duo went on this way for weeks, the pranks escalating a bit each time. Just 
before the end of the term, Thesik approached Kosveret and offered him a truce. 
"Why?" was the ever-suspicious elf's first question. 

"Against each other, we've pulled off some pretty amazing pranks, and believe 
me, no one's been more entertained than I. But just think of what we could do if we 
joined forces." 

Kosveret thought about it for a moment and then began to grin. "Human, I think 
of a long-lasting friendship." He had no idea of how truly he 


Over a decade later, the duo of Kosveret and Thesik were still 
working and laughing together. Their friendship would become 
strained, however, by the entrance of a third party, a dazzling 
young beauty named Barani. A girl who had grown up on the 
shores of Marnita, her father a failed psionicist turned fisher 
man himself, Barani had a great deal of disdain for the 
Psionics Academy and no real desire to study the Way there. 

Unfortunately, she had exhausted her father's store of 
knowledge on the subject of the mind, and she needed a new 
bitter experiences with the institution, Barani's father insisted 
academy. He still had friends there from his old days, and 
they guaranteed him that such a bright student would certainly be given a full schol 
arship and treated with all the respect due someone of her Will. 

Reluctantly, Barani left the shores of Marnita for the ivory towers of the Psionics 
Academy. Admittedly, when she first got there, she was not a wonderful student. She 
was too willful to easily suffer being taught by the same professors who had looked 
down upon her father. 

It was in one advanced level class she had sneaked into that she caught the atten 
tion of the young associate professor leading the discussion, a handsome and power 
ful young psionicist who was rapidly rising through the academy's ranks. His name 
was Thesik. 

One night after class, Barani followed Thesik to the Blind Pig, hoping to meet with 
him in a non-academic setting. She certainly got her wish. She waited outside of the 
tavern for nearly an hour, trying to get up the nerve to walk into the obviously lower- 
class establishment. When she finally did, she saw Thesik engaged in a telekinetic 
struggle with a gangly elf. A frothy flagon of ale hung in the air between them as 
they each struggled to pour the contents of the mug onto the other's head. 

As Barani stepped closer to the contest, she caught Thesik's eye. He lost his con 
centration on the mental battle before him, and he was suddenly wearing a pint of 
ice-cold ale. 

Once he had dried himself off, he stood up and greeted Barani, who was doing 
her best not to laugh. Then he turned and introduced her to his opponent, Kosveret. 
As he turned to Kosveret, he saw the look of adoration dawning in the elf's eyes. 

The battle for Barani's heart was on. 

In the end, Barani's first choice became her only choice, and she and Thesik 


this could be the start 
spoke. 

Enter Barani 



challenge. Despite his 
that the girl attend the 


34 


became lovers and partners throughout their life. Kosveret took me news as well as 
he could. Over the years, he took a number of partners himself, but none ever satis 
fied him as Barani did Thesik. 

Still, fate had brought these three together to peer into the distant future, so that 
they would know what had to be done to save today. Their reward would be eternity 
together. This would also be their curse. 

The Entering of the Orbs 

Over the next few millennia, the trio's power grew until they became like unto gods 
to the people of Saragar and the rest of the Last Sea. After the Cleansing Wars were 
over and the Sorcerer-Kings had learned to ignore the Mind Lords and their land, the 
three psionicists turned their attention toward the more immediate problem of 
extending their own lives. 

While the Mind Lords had been using traditional and not-so-traditional psionic 
means of extending their existences for centuries, their bodies were finally failing 
them altogether. It was only a matter of time-and not very much of it-before they 
would die. 

While death itself held little fear for such people, the idea that their carefully 
wrought plans would be laid to waste did. They had worked so hard to preserve 
Marnita from the horrors that had happened to the rest of Athas, and they were 
anguished at the thought that the desert might finally win its age-old battle with the 
valley and take the Last Sea into its arms once and for all, were they not there to 
prevent that event. 

The three Mind Lords spent several years trying desperate experiments to extend 
their lives, some of which may have contributed to their later madness. In the end 
all their experiments failed. It was Barani who finally spoke of a solution that none 
of them had wanted to consider. 

For millennia before the Mind Lords had been born, the people of the Green Age 
had been placing enslaved psyches into obsidian orbs, programming them to per 
form menial tasks. These new entities were essentially immortal. They neither aged 
nor died, and barring any unforeseen problems, they survived for millennia on end 

Barani pointed out that there was no reason that an unenslaved psyche couldn't 
be put in one of these orbs as well. But the idea itself was reprehensible to the peo 
ple of the Green Age, so much so that the Mind Lords were almost unwilling even to 
consider it. After all, the orbs were for slaves, not the most powerful psionic minds 
Athas had ever seen. 

Still, it soon seemed apparent that there was no other choice but to do as Barani 
had suggested. In the end, the other two agreed. 

To keep their people from learning of their horrible decision (and to prevent any 
ramifications their knowledge might have), the Mind Lords would have to construct 
and maintain an elaborate ruse that they were still alive. 

First, they had a massive chamber constructed forty feet beneath the palace and 
then sealed off by collapsing the entire tunnel that led to it. Then they had three 
gigantic obsidian orbs crafted, each perfect in every way and polished to a mirror fin 
ish. When everything was ready, they secretly transferred their minds into the orbs. 

Their first act upon entering the globes was to disintegrate their aged bodies, leav 
ing no trace that they had ever "died." Then they each teleported the new recepta 
cles of their minds down into the subterranean chamber they'd had fashioned, each 
orb settling upon a broad and shallow pillar of purest ivory. 

Once they were settled in their new forms, the Mind Lords put their ruse into 
action, psionically projecting their images into the palace above. Their plan seemed 
perfect. They would be seen walking about the palace constantly, puttering around 
in their study and attending functions of state. When they needed to hold or touch 
something, all they must do was supply a skillful bit of telekinesis. They could even 
appear to eat and drink by placing the food or liquid in their image's mouth and 
then teleporting it away before it passed through them to the ground. 

On the rare occasion when someone actually saw evidence that they were insub 
stantial, they could simply attribute it to the fact that they were handling a "phasing" 


35 


experiment. A bit more carefully applied telekinesis, and they could again show just 
how solid they were. 

Over the next year, the Mind Lords gradually murdered anyone who might have 
had any information about the orbs or the chamber. The chances that anyone would 
make the logical connection were slim due to the same reason that the Mind Lords 
had resisted entering the orbs in the first place: the idea was simply too distasteful to 
consider. Still, the three psionicists were terrified that the truth might someday be 
revealed. They were not willing to gamble with an eternity of living in shame. 

Situation Today 

In the intervening millennia, the Mind Lords came to be viewed by their people as 
gods. They were not always good deities, nor even fair, but it was from them that all of 
Marnita's bounty came, and without them, the sea itself would vanish. These certainly 
seemed like good enough reasons for the people to worship them, and so they did. 

The situation was taken full advantage of by the lawkeepers, the people's only 
means of communicating directly with the Mind Lords. In fact, only the chief 
lawkeeper (currently Lawkeeper Efkenu) ever spoke directly with the three lawmak 
ers, and this privilege was jealously guarded. 

Today the people of Saragar attend services and listen the to speeches of the law 
makers who run the church of the Mind Lords, long diatribes designed to make the 
populace appreciate all that the Mind Lords have given them. Mandatory donations 
are collected at every service, and failing to attend services at least once a week is 
considered a crime, punished by incredibly stiff penalties. 

Barani is the lawkeepers' mother goddess. She is represented by the earth and the 
sea. All of the bounty of the world of the living comes from her womb. She is usually 
depicted cradling a young child in her arms and with flowers braided through her hair. 

Thesik is the god of the underworld. It is he who shepherds the dying into the 
land of the dead. He is usually shown as a pale man with deep eyes, his hair swept 
back in a widow's peak. He wears clothing suitable for one living in the desert. 

Kosveret is the god of happiness. He exemplifies the reasons humanoids have for liv 
ing: triumph and joy. He is often depicted as a drunken elf with a woman on each arm. 

The lawkeepers attempt to show "their holinesses" as a perfect trinity, none of 
which could exist without the others. Without life, there could be no death. Without 
death, there would be nothing against which to compare joy. Without joy, life would 
have no meaning. 

In theory, this is all very fine, as each of the gods has the people's best interests at 
heart. After all, they preserved Marnita for the people. In fact, so much time has 
gone by since the trio originally walked the earth that most people actually consider 
the Mind Lords to be the creators of this most incredible oasis in the endless desert. 

In reality, however, the lawkeepers are little more than caretakers for tremendous 
ly powerful beings who have slowly lost their minds. Of them all, Thesik is most 

firmly grounded in how things really are. He remembers the past all too well, it 

seems, for his memories fill him with terrible pangs of regret. 

The loss of his body and his subsequent separation from Barani has hurled him 
into a terrible depression from which it seems he may never recover. It is rare that he 
does anything these days. He simply sits in his orb and contemplates the horror that 
his life has become. In this respect, he makes an excellent god of the dead. 

In his heart, Thesik wants nothing more than to finally end his existence, but the 
responsibility of maintaining the Border of Guardians and the Last Sea weigh heavily 
on his insubstantial shoulders. He knows that the others are too far gone to be 

depended upon to keep things running should he allow himself to slip into death, 

and so he is caught firmly in a trap of his own design, from which it seems there is 
no possible escape. 

Barani has become manic-depressive, and from moment to moment, it is almost as if 
she is two different people. The manic Barani is loving and caring and enjoys Thesik's 
company. She is the earth mother in all her radiant beauty. The depressed Barani, on the 
other hand, is literally a holy terror. She despises her life, and she holds Thesik personal 
ly responsible for her current situation. If she could, she'd probably commit suicide, but 


36 


during these times, she is too despondent to be clever enough to come up with a sure 
fire way to do so. She is usually distant, but when prodded, she becomes cranky and 
irrational. She represents nature in all its horrible fury and matter-of-fact cruelty. 

Kosveret is flat-out mad, encompassing many different personalities, few of which 
are actually aware of one another. He spends much of his time impersonating both 
real and fictional people out of fact and legend, wandering the streets of Saragar and 
beyond. He is often magnanimous one moment and then deadly the next. 

Above all, Kosveret enjoys challenges and mysteries. If something catches his 
interest, he will follow it about, toying with it until it becomes boring to him. At this 
point, he either rewards or kills the object of his attentions, depending on however 
the person strikes him at the moment. He truly represents the arbitrariness of life. 

Happiness is Mandatory 

The credo of the Mind Lords, and thus of their priestly lawkeepers, is "Happiness 
must be maintained." How happy everyone has to be is up to the lawkeepers at 
hand. Often they are more concerned about their own happiness than that of the cit 
izens of Saragar. 

The laws have been written by the lawmakers to ensure maximum happiness 
among the people of Saragar. It's the duty of the lawkeepers to ensure that these laws 
are upheld. The penalty for any crime is arbitrarily set by the lawkeeper who catches 
the lawbreaker in question, but usually it is harmonization, a process by which the 
offender's thoughts are psionically shaped back into a pattern considered more 
socially acceptable by the lawkeepers. The lawkeepers who handle such operations 
are called harmonizers, and they are universally feared by all but other lawkeepers 
and the Mind Lords themselves. 

This fact has had a surrealistic effect on the people of Saragar. They are exceedingly 
polite and efficient. They have the finest manners, and they are never crude or insulting. 

While this behavior may seem normal in a diplomat, it is unusual to see in a longshore 
man. The lawkeepers have managed to turn Saragar into an entire city of diplomats. 

For this reason, it is difficult to get anyone in the city to take responsibility for any 
thing. This is so pervasive that it is even represented in the way that people express 
themselves. No one in Saragar ever says, "I dropped that glass." They claim that "The 
glass was somehow broken." If pressed, they might actually admit that "The glass fell 
from my hand," but to ever hear a firmer attachment of responsibility to themselves 
is rarer than a lost sea on a desert planet. 

There are laws to cover nearly anything in Saragar. Littering is a serious offense (as 
are all other offenses). These laws can be liberally interpreted by a lawkeeper, and it 
is not unusual for them to be exceedingly easy upon an offender who makes a sub 
stantial and unsolicited donation to the church of the Mind Lords on the spot. 

The key to every law, though, is happiness. If something could make someone 
sad, it's a crime, and if anyone can be found to be responsible, that person is harmo 
nized. The process of harmonization is said to be unpleasant-though no one who 
has ever gone through it has complained afterward. After all, their mind has been 
programmed to forget any such trauma. 

The old joke around the shores of the Last Sea (although never told in Saragar 
itself) is that the lawkeepers' motto is "Mindwipes will continue until morale 
improves." It is just as well that the joke is never heard in Saragar, as it seems likely 
that few people there would find the humor in it anyhow. To them, it is all too real. 

One major law which (like any other) is rarely broken is that it is illegal to leave 
the valley of the Last Sea without express permission. In fact, it is illegal for citizens 
to leave the city for more than three days without permission. Conversely, visitors are 
only allowed to stay in the city for three days without the express written consent of 
the lawkeepers. An outsider caught without his papers is sure to be expelled from 
the city at the least, although immediate execution or harmonization is more likely. 

Citizenship is determined by birth. People born in Saragar are citizens. Those born 
elsewhere are not. 

These days, outlanders are not specifically forbidden in Saragar. It is just that, 
since they are very likely unfamiliar with the city's laws, they inevitably will run 


37 



afoul of them. Outlanders are more likely to be executed than homelanders (for 
whom termination is extremely rare). After all, many fewer people will miss an out- 
lander's presence in the verdant valley. 

The only people in the city with real responsibility are the lawtenders-the city's 
bureaucrats-although to see them work, one would never know it. They are masters 
at equivocation, as it is only by this virtue that they manage to keep their minds and 
their jobs intact. 

Socialization ensures that harmonization is rarely necessary, though. Everyone in 
Saragar has been raised to have faith in the lawkeepers and the Mind Lords' laws. 
Those who find the structure of Saragar's society too constrictive are generally given 
leave to live in the villages by the Last Sea's shores. Those villagers who wish to can 
apply for citizenship to the city as well, although this is rarely given, as even these 
people often have trouble assimilating themselves into Saragar's society. Most people 
from outside the city find life in it to be exceedingly dull, although the people of 
Saragar seem to like it just fine; they face each situation with a fixed smile. 

The jurisdiction of the lawkeepers officially covers the entire valley of the Last 
Sea, but it is rare to see them very much outside of Saragar. They make irregular 
patrols of the other settlements, but they usually only make an appearance when 
requested by the local government. Even after they catch a wrongdoer, they will only 
hand him over the harmonizers if specifically requested to by the locals. Usually 
they let the local excuses for lawkeepers handle the miscreant's punishment. 

If the offender or his crime was somehow connected directly with Saragar, howev 
er, the city's lawkeepers will show no mercy toward the criminal and will pursue 
him to the Border of Guardians itself. But under any other circumstance, they like to 
take a hands-off attitude. If it doesn't involve the city, it's not their problem. 



38 






The 

Wanderer's 

Journal 


CHAPTER 


FIVE 


The Last Sea is a land of 
wonders, the likes of 
which cannot be found 
elsewhere on Athas. 
Almost as interesting as 
the salty sea itself are 
the humanoids who live 
along its edge, enjoying 
the Mind Lords' shelter 
from the desert that 
inexorably consumes the 
rest of the planet, 
dwarves, elves, 
and humans live 
in relative 


The Last Sea 


Kabak walked alone through the last stretch of grass leading up to the Last Sea. He 
had buried Sahanda's body on the edge of the forest in a shallow grave marked only 
by the great oak that stood over it. Kabak had never seen such a tree except in the 
garden of a noble of whom he had once been the champion. The oak above 
Sahanda was tall and thick, and its leaves were wide and green. He thought the old 
elf would have liked it. He knew he would have. 

From the forest, the land had sloped down gently through a field of tall grass. 

Now it opened onto a wide beach of white sand. This sand was unlike the stuff he'd 
had to deal with his entire life, the fine, dusty sand that blew up into your eyes and 
clogged your throat and nostrils. This sand stayed on the ground where it belonged. 

When he stepped on it, it gave way like mud, but it didn't slip from under his feet 
like the free-flowing stuff that made up the endless dunes he'd walked across all the 
way from Tyr to get here. He strode across it to the waters edge and stared out at the 
open sea. Off in the distance to the north, a large plateau stabbed out of the water in 
some pointless act of defiance. Kirka had called it the Lonely Butte in her tales, an 
untamed place filled with savage creatures: a good place to hide from the lawmakers 
of Saragar. 

The water lapped at his feet, so he stripped off his sandals and pack and tossed 
them back up the beach. The water felt good against his legs as he waded into it. He 
bent down, cupped his hands in the water and brought a bit of it to his lips. It was 
salty as Kirka had warned him, unsafe to drink. That was fine. There had been no 
lack of fresh water in the valley. This water was for playing in. 

Drawing a deep breath, he lowered his body into the sea. The sensation was like 
nothing he'd ever felt before. So much water, ail over his body-it was amazing! 

And the things he could see beneath the waves! 

There were all sorts of colorful, fiat-bodied things swimming all around him. 

Kabak supposed they were fish, but they were nothing like the tiny dun-colored ones 
he had been familiar with back in Tyr. These were striped and swirled with all sorts 
of brilliant hues, and they came in all shapes and sizes. Once, a gigantic tortoise 
nearly as large as Kabak himself swam by, only in place of a tortoise's claws it had 
flippers. 


togetherness all 
along the Last 
Sea's shores, their 
lives extremely 
different from 
those that most 
Athasians know. 
Imagine how 
different your own life 
would be if you had never 
wanted for clean water or 
good food? What kind of a 
person would you have 
become? For those of us 
who live on this side of the 
Thunder Mountains, there 
may be no clear answer to 
these questions, but they 
are a good starting point 
from which to begin 
understanding the people 
of the Last Sea. 


39 



Kabak was having the time of his life, and for one sweet moment he was able to 
entirely forget all of the troubles he'd had on the long road that had led him here. 
Then a giant wave slammed into him and scoured him against the sandy sea floor, 
knocking him roughly from his feet He scrambled to grab onto something and right 
himself, but before his fingers could find purchase on anything other than the roiling 
sand, the riptide dragged him back out into deep water. 

For a moment, Kabak was fine. He'd never been in so much water before, and the 
sensation of floating weightlessly suspended in the middle of if was dizzying. It was 
then that he realized that, unlike the fish he'd been watching so attentively, he 
couldn't breathe water, nor could he swim. 

Kabak floundered about for a few seconds before he started to really panic. He 
thrashed about for a minute until he realized it wasn't going to do him any good. In 
a last desperate measure, he screamed. 

Once all the breath was gone from his body, he realized the kind of mistake he'd 
made: a deadly one. He clamped his mouth hard against the water struggling to 
make its way into his lungs, but he eventually passed out, and the water won. 

When he awakened, he was lying face down on the wet sandy beach, the water 
still lapping at his ankles. He tried to breathe but just coughed and sputtered. When 
he finally forced all the left-over water out of his lungs, he drew the deepest breath 
he ever had and audibly thanked fortune for sparing his miserable life. 

"Fortune had nothing to do with it," someone said. 

Kabak's eyes darted up, his vision landing upon a pair of green feet. They were 
the color of a thri-kreen's, but were covered in scales like a reptile's-a giant reptile, 
he realized, as he lifted his head to stare up at the speaker. 

"Greetingss," hissed the creature as it looked down at him with a snake's wide 
yellow eyes. It smiled at him, baring all of its long, sharp teeth. 

Kabak scrambled back as if he'd been bit. When he realized he was working his 
way back into the water, he stumbled to his feet. The lizard man, for that's what it 
had to be, stood taller than he, although it was not broader. Kabak decided he was 



40 























glad he had not met the creature in the arenas of Tyr. There was something horrible 
he had heard about lizard men, though, and it came back to him in a rush. 

"Don't eat me!" he sputtered, his hand reaching for a sword that was no longer at 
his side, a sword he had left on the shore. 

The lizard man stared at him for a moment. Then it began to laugh in a series of 
short hisses. At least it sounded a bit like laughter. Kabak wasn't entirely sure. 

"Don't worry, friend. I won't eat you. I don't think I'd find meat as tough as yourss 
very tassty." 

Kabak was confused. "But the legends say that the walking lizards -" 

"Eat humanoid flesh? I suppose thiss was true a long time ago, but things change, 
outlander. You can't expect even the Lasst Ssea to have sstayed frozen in time ssince the 
Green Age. " The lizard man started walking around Kabak, heading back into the sea. 

"But I thought. . . . Wait. How did you know I'm from outside the valley?" 

The lizard man gave his hissing laugh again. "I ssaved your hide, didn't I? Anyone 
who lives insside the valley would already know how to sswim. You obvioussly 
don't. You've got a lot to learn, airssucker." 

With that, the lizard man slipped into the sea and swam away. Kabak watched 
him move along the surface for a while until he kicked up his heels and headed for 
the salty depths. 

"Yes," whispered Kabak, "it seems that I do." 

The valley of the Last Sea is a large place, measuring 150 miles across at its longest 
stretch, and nearly 70 miles wide. A vast portion of this area is occupied by Marnita 
itself, but there is still plenty of land on Marnita's shores. This area features many 
small towns, each happily outside of the direct influence of the Mind Lords, although 
still profiting from their protection of the entire valley from the encroaching desert. 

The sea itself is surrounded by a hearty band of tough grasses, inured to the rigors of 
living off of the sea water they can reach with their roots. This grass is strong enough to 
make good rope and even roofing (tiki-style), but it is awful for grazing. It is so salty 
that most Athasian cattle-even that local to the Last Sea-cannot stomach it. 

Beyond this narrow band of salt grass, though, the land is extremely fertile, capa 
ble of supporting all sorts of vegetation, including palm trees and other plants of the 
tropical sort. The wider, flatter areas are covered with productive farms, the bread 
basket of the valley. A large percentage of the food grown for the valley comes from 
these fields, and it seems that there is always plenty to go around. 

This likely accounts for the fact that most homelanders are several pounds heavier 
than the average outlander. Their skin is also softer and smoother, and the effects of 
age are often less pronounced. Additionally, the skin of most citizens of Saragar is 
much paler than that of outlanders. The high humidity in the region seems to form 
some kind of protection from the dark sun's rays, making the people less likely to be 
burnished by its still-harsh radiation. 

The most amazing thing to outlanders is the number of rivers that cut through the 
Thunder Mountains and run in to Marnita. Homelanders never lack for water that is 
clean and pure. 


Cuarsen 

This sleepy little fishing village is located on the middle of Marnita's southeastern shore, 
far from the influences of Saragar. Altogether, Cuarsen consists of approximately 50 peo 
ple, but this number fluctuates to a great deal higher from time to time as the many 
druids that live on the shores of Marnita favor this tiny place with most of their attention. 

For the most part, the druids of the valley of the Last Sea are genuinely different 
from those found in other parts of Athas. They live together in tiny beach communi 
ties of 10 people or less, spending their days surfing on the waves of the Last Sea, 
constantly searching for the perfect ride. 

The hunt for the ultimate wave is a never-ending one, and it is the focus of these 
druids' days. Since a wave is an ephemeral thing by its very nature, these people are 
destined to never find permanent contentment. This is fine by them, though, as they 
enjoy the searching almost as much as they love the ride itself. 



41 



To these nature priests, surfing is a means of communing with the water that they 
have come to love so much. To learn to surf and then to practice the lessons of surf 
ing is to come to know the sea and to show not only your undying respect for it as a 
force of nature, but also the joy you can feel when you are totally in tune with that 
force. This is represented by riding smoothly, almost poetically atop a wave, knowing 
that it will end at any second and enjoying it all the same for as long as is possible. 

Most of the time, these druids live off of seafood they catch and fruits that they 
forage for along the shore. Eventually, though, this diet palls, even to such ascetics, 
and they come to Cuarsen for a drink and a meal. In exchange for these things, they 
trade ropes, mats, and hats they have woven from the grasses that grow just beyond 
the beaches. 

On any given day in Cuarsen, there are usually one or two bands of druids in 
town for some good grub. They are typically dressed only in shorts, the women 
wearing sleeveless half-shirts as well. Each and every one of the druids is burnished 
a deep bronze from long hours of exposure to the sun. Long-time druids are wrin 
kled beyond their years, but they don't care. 

Very little can get a druid inside any kind of shelter for longer than a few hours. 
The people like to sleep with the sand on their backs, sometimes even with their feet 
in the water. More than one druid has had a rude awakening when the rising tide 
has washed him out to sea, but they generally just see it as the sea calling out to 
them, promising a chance at some excellent body surfing. 

It is rare to see a beach druid far from his board. Each makes his own board by 
hand, lovingly crafting and polishing it until it's ready to glide across the waves. It 
can take up to two weeks for a druid to make another board, and although druids do 
make boards for sale, they refuse to part with their personal boards except under the 
direst circumstances. 

A druid's personal board adds a nonmagical +3 to any surfing proficiency checks 
made by that druid only. An experienced druid with his own board can perform 
nearly unbelievable stunts on the surf. These people generally disdain sailboards, 
though, except as a means of traveling long distances rapidly. Given a choice, a 
druid would usually rather simply surf along the coast to his destination, even if it 
took him 12 times as long to get there. 

The people of Cuarsen are mostly friendly, and the merchants there are happy to 
get business of any kind. The same cannot be said for the druids, though. They are a 
closed group. Even amongst themselves, their bands are extremely insular. 

While in the Sea Wax, Cuarsen's only tavern, druids are often friendly, open, and 
even talkative with people that they know. It will take them at least several days to 
feel comfortable enough to speak their mind in front of an outlander, though, if 
indeed they ever do. Bee, the Sea Wax's shaggy haired elven proprietor and bar 
tender, makes sure to sit newcomers as far from the druids as possible, but it rarely 
works. Once the druids are not in complete control of the bar, they most times get 
up and leave as soon as they can finish their drinks. 

Cubarto 

Cubarto is the second largest mixed-race settlement on the shores of Marnita, fol 
lowing distantly behind Saragar with just over 1,500 people. Cubarto is located on 
the side of Marnita directly opposite Saragar. This position gives its citizens trading 
access to both Kharzden and Sylvandretta, an advantage the barge drivers of Cubarto 
exploit ruthlessly. 

The people of Cubarto are loud and lusty. None of them would last 15 minutes in 
Saragar before being hauled before a harmonizer to be brought into tune with the 
Mind Lords' song. Just about everyone in Cubarto supports the Underground, 
although there are few who do so openly. Marnita is only so large, and the reach of 
the lawkeepers more than sufficiently covers it. 

This is a port town and a fishing village. Boats of all shapes, sizes and descriptions 
pour through the port every day. Those citizens who don't support themselves in the 
shipping business make their living harvesting the fruit of the sea, hooking and net 
ting the many delicious varieties of fish that call Marnita home. 


42 


Just as with elsewhere on the Last Sea, however, the fishers of Cubarto are careful 
not to overly fish any particular region of the sea. To do so is to invite a mass harmo 
nization of nearly every fisher in town, and that's something that nobody in Cubarto 
wants. It has been over a thousand years since the entire village of Waishiki was har 
monized in one fell swoop for their repeated violations of the fishing guidelines set 
forth for them by the Mind Lords. No one in Cubarto personally remembers it hap 
pening, but a visit to Waishiki will convince any skeptic of the veracity of this claim. 

Cubarto is governed by a mayor elected by the people. He has very little real 
power, and the post is mostly an honorary one. The only thing he can do that no 
other citizen can is call in the lawkeepers when he feels that they are needed. If his 
judgment proves flawed, however, it can end up being he that is harmonized instead. 

The current mayor is a well-tanned young man named Sentigo, with dark brown 
eyes and straight black hair he wears shaved close to his head. Sentigo believes in 
running a tight ship, and in his case, that means collecting taxes from each ship that 
uses Cubarto's port. He usually charges a measly two percent of any cargo carried, 
but he can go as high as 10 if his takes a disliking to the people he's dealing with. In 
any case, Sentigo is a popular man, and any attempts to get out of paying him his 
taxes will be met with stiff resistance from just about everybody else in town. 

At the end of the year, Cubarto always has a surplus of taxes, and instead of 
hoarding the cash, Sentigo uses it to throw a great festival. People from all around 
the Last Sea show up for the party, especially for the fantastic spread of food and 
drink that the village provides for free. Even an occasional lizard man, as well as a 
ghost elf or two from Sylvandretta (see below) has been known to show up for 
Cubarto's infamous New Year's Eve celebration. 

The people of Cubarto are open and warm. They like to drink and swim (not nec 
essarily at the same time). They are suspicious of strangers, but openly so. Visitors 
may find this refreshing after having to deal with the implicit distrust found in many 
of the other villages on the shore. This mistrusting is only natural, of course. After all, 
anyone new in the village could be a spy for the Mind Lords, so until the newcom 
ers are proven to be who they say they are, they can expect to encounter stubborn 
ness bordering on open hostility from the Cubartan people. 

The easiest way to earn a Cubartan's trust is to publicly curse the Mind Lords. No 
one from Saragar could do such a thing because of their real fear that they could be 
struck down for such a thing. (Of course, who's to say the outlanders won't be?) Not 
even a native Cubartan would be so bold. 


Huddleston 

Huddleston is a small farming community nestled into the nook north of Marnita, 
right between the last of the Thunder Mountains and the edge of the Burning Plains. 

This extremely fertile land sees a great deal of rain, and this, combined with the val 
ley's long growing season, make the fields around Huddleston the most productive 
on the planet. 

Visitors from afar will be astonished at the size of these farms, the row after row of 
luscious plants and trees bearing vegetables and fruits of all kinds. Perhaps the most 
famous farm in the area is the old Jenkins Vineyard, a place which has been produc 
ing the sweetest grapes and making the finest wines on Athas for millennia. 

The vineyard is run these days by a man named Clay and his young wife Sherril. 

They happily care for the vineyard and watch over all of their workers, and each 
year they supply the drink for the New Year's Eve festival in Cubarto. There is always 
plenty of good, inexpensive wine to go around, and the Jenkins consider the year- 
end party to be the best advertising for their product they could ever find. 

Never in the entire history of Huddleston has anyone ever had to be harmonized. 

They're simply all too well adjusted to ever even consider causing someone unhap 
piness. True, occasionally even a Huddlestonian gets down, but whenever that hap 
pens, another one is right there to help pick him right back up again. The villagers 
are determined that no one is going to spoil their perfect record. 

The Huddlestonians (basically anyone who lives within 10 miles of the village) 
generally live solitary lives, each family working hard on its farm all week long. Come 


43 


the weekend, though, the villagers head into their tiny burg for a couple days of song 
and celebration. These communal moments are what bring these people together and 
give them a sense of unity with one another. They cherish their friendships above all 
else. Once you've got a Huddlestonian for a friend, you've got a friend for life. 

The Huddlestonians are extremely friendly to outlanders and will extend such 
travelers every courtesy. Long ago, they simply called the lawkeepers every time 
someone made it through the Border of Guardians, but when the lawkeepers 
seemed to stop caring so much about it, the Huddlestonians did too. Today they call 
the outlanders into their homes and treat them like royalty, eager to learn everything 
they can about the world outside their little valley. 

Huddleston is governed by a direct democracy. As there are less than 250 people in 
the entire community, they see no reason to elect any single person to carry out all of 
their wishes. The honor of dealing with any particular matter changes from matter to 
matter, generally falling to the person best suited to taking care of that particular task. 

At the end of every weekend, the people meet (traditionally at the Jenkins 
Vineyard, although other places have been used) to discuss the issues of the week. 
Votes are brought up after everyone who wants to has had a chance to say his piece. 
A simply majority rules, and any resolutions are acted upon instantly. 

No Huddlestonians ever willingly shirk a duty placed upon them by their fellows. 

Its rare that assignment of a duty even has to happen, though, as most people will 
simply volunteer their services to lend a hand in solving any problem that might arise. 
Consequently, Huddleston is an extremely competent community, and no one is ever 
left dangling in the delightfully cool sea breezes that sweep over these fields of plenty. 

Kharzden 

The dwarven colony of Kharzden is far and away the largest settlement in the valley, 
outside of mighty Saragar itself. It holds almost 2,000 dwarves scattered throughout 
the ancient mining shafts riddling the northern part of the Thunder Mountains. These 
dwarves live mostly underground like their ancient counterparts once did, although 
they have long since lost any special abilities to mine and forge metals. 

Most of the veins of ore in the Thunder Mountains were mined out long ago. A 
few new ones have been discovered recently by hobbyist miners, and some new 
metals have been extracted and made into new items like mining tools and even 
axes. Most of the metal things that the dwarves have, though, are as ancient and 
worn as the bits that circulate throughout the rest of the valley. 

The miners wear bandannas tied around their faces to keep them from inhaling too 
much of the subterranean dust. The people of Saragar have taken to jokingly calling 
them the only bearded dwarves on all of Athas. Traditionally these bandannas used to 
be brown always, but today they come in all sorts of different colors and patterns. 

The dwarves' government is a matriarchal monarchy, and the current queen is an 
aged woman by the name of Elakta. In the dwarves' home under the mountains, 
Queen Elakta's word is law, and it is obeyed by all. 

Elakta is as proud and stubborn as her people, and she refuses to have much to do 
with the lawkeepers of Saragar. She suffers their presence when they require it, but 
not willingly, and she has yet to break the long tradition the dwarves have had of 
refusing to call upon the lawkeepers for help. If she has her way (and she usually 
does), her people never will. 

The dwarves live off of subterranean crops grown in massive chambers buried 
deep beneath the mountains, far from the burning rays of the sun. Their ancestors 
were as distrusting of the efficacy of the Mind Lords' ability to defend them from the 
sorcerer-kings as these dwarves are today. The ancient dwarves built an underground 
world for themselves that was almost entirely self-sufficient. In this way, they hoped 
to hide from the wizards and their power for as long as possible. 

Since those days, the dwarves have become somewhat lax in their vigilance. The 
doors to Kharzden stand wide, their hinges long since rusted open. The colony has 
expanded since those old times, and the village now spills out onto the clearing on 
the edge of the mountainside. 

The dwarves of Kharzden are stolidly against magic of any kind, or even the use 


44 




of psionics. They have a few wild talents in their group, but none of them has any 
training in the Way. The use of any kind of unusual ability within the halls of 
Kharzden is frowned upon and is grounds for immediate ejection for a time. If the 
offense is repeated, the offender is beaten unconscious before being cast out. The 
penalty the third time is execution. 

Other than this, the dwarves are extremely friendly to outlanders. They see them 
as a potential source of revenue and information. The dwarves' metals are extremely 
valuable outside of the valley, and they are more than willing to trade small amounts 
for important information from distant lands. Queen Elakta strongly believes that the 
day will come when the Mind Lords' efforts will finally fail, and she will do every 
thing she can to make sure that her people are prepared for that eventuality. 

The dwarves also trade for all sorts of different things. They are especially fond of 
gourmet foods and intricate toys. They delight in these things above all else, 
although the queen makes sure that these "vices" do not overshadow the dwarves' 
more important work. 


Rivertown 

Rivertown is a tiny town that sits on the banks of the Big River, which flows out of 
the northwestern Thunder Mountains and into the sea. The town rests high in the 
foothills of this range, at a point at which the river runs wide and fast. 

The Big River can actually be crossed by foot at this point, but it is 50 yards wide, 
and each round of time spent working across it requires a Dexterity check at -3. Those 
who fail their checks lose their footing, take 1d6 points of damage and are swept down 
the river at a movement rate of 30. They must then make a Dexterity check at -6 to 
regain their footing or grab onto a solid rock or branch as they pass by it. Each turn 
that the victims fail to save themselves, they take an additional 1d6 points of damage. 

If they are still being swept along after the tenth turn, they are swept over the edge of 
the Big Falls, a 100-foot waterfall that crashes down into a wide pool of water before 
continuing on toward the sea. Victims must save versus death to avoid being fatally 
crushed on the rocks below. Those who succeed manage to avoid the rocks, but they 
had better know how to swim, as they are in 20 feet of water. 

Less adventurous souls can do what most of he villagers do: walk across the sus 
pension bridge that wavers a mere six feet above the river's frothing surface. Still, 
some of the young men in the village like to challenge outlanders to a crossing of the 
river the old-fashioned way, and about once a year someone is swept down the falls. 

The people of Rivertown support themselves by hunting and fishing. A large vari 
ety of woodland critters that are good eating make their homes in the mountains and 
these hills, and a lot of them come down to the river to bathe and drink. Also, a sub 
stantial population of fresh-water fish swim up and down the river, including a num 
ber of different types of trout. 

When the salmon swim up the river to spawn (even managing to climb the falls), 
the Rivertown fishers haul in a load of these tasty fish. They then smoke them and 
store them so that they can eat them all year round. Smoked salmon is considered a 
fine delicacy around the entire valley, and it is Rivertown's number one export. 

Rivertown is governed by a mayor elected from its populace of just over 600 peo 
ple (including those who live in the outlying areas surrounding the small town). No 
one runs for the office. Votes are simply tallied every four years, and the winner 
becomes mayor. The only restriction is that once you've been mayor, you can never 
hold that office again. 

This suits the people of Rivertown just fine, since no one really wants the job any 
way. The mayor has to oversee matters in the town and act as arbitrator to settle any 
disputes. While this is all well and good, it gets in the way of more important things 
like being in the woods. 

The current mayor is a young woman named Karpinnen. Tall, blond, and beautiful, 
with startlingly blue eyes, she is inexperienced with the vagaries of politics, having only 
held the office for a few weeks. Before this, her only claim to fame was that she had 
been horsing around on the bridge and fallen into the river. She was eventually swept 
over the falls but miraculously survived. People around these parts apparently figured 


45 



that anyone so darn lucky should take a turn at running things in Rivertown. Also, her 
parents actually campaigned privately for her, hoping that a little responsibility would 
help her mature quickly before she got killed in another one of her foolish stunts. 

The Rivertownies are generally stand-offish with strangers. They don't trust anyone 
they don't know, fearing that strangers might be spies from the lawkeepers. Still, they 
enjoy playing pranks on outlanders just come through the mountains (like telling 
them that rubbing rash ivy on their skin will help keep away the mosquitoes found 
up in the forest). This is easy, as they know that the valley seems like another world 
to those from the desert lands. The pranks are generally harmless in the long run, 
though. The Rivertownies don't want to permanently hurt anyone; they just like a 
good laugh at outsiders' expense. 


Shallat 


Shallat is a small town on the northern side of Marnita, sheltered from even a view 
of Saragar by the intervening Lonely Butte. The people of this village are mostly fish 
ermen, but a number of farms range from Shallat's borders to the edge of the 
Thunder Mountains, ensuring that the less than 300 people who live here have plen 
ty of food without having to trade much with the other towns. 

Shallat's main attraction is its healing facilities. The town is a governed by a hered 
itary monarchy, each member of which is a physician of incredible skill. Most mem 
bers of the ruling family are water clerics as well, people who have dedicated their 
lives to using the fertility of Marnita to aid in their healing ways. 

The head of the ruling family is titled duke or duchess. The current Duke Jaan 
Shallat rules side-by-side with his lovely bride, the Duchess Shelistone. Both are 
impressively skilled physicians and 10th-level water clerics. They are admired and 
well-liked by their people. No one resents the pair their titles, as they are in fact 
mostly honorary. Additionally, the responsibility of being in charge of the village is 
something that no one really wants to volunteer for. Most people are happy to let 
someone else take care of the political stuff so that they can get on with their daily 
lives. Jaan and Shelistone, however, shoulder this burden gladly, happy to be able to 
help their fellows in any way that they can. 

The Shallatians are a peace-loving people, and they are generally treated well by 
everyone living in and around Marnita, even by the brigands and pirates who live on 
the Lonely Butte. After all, potentially anyone might eventually find themselves in need 
of the village's services, and when they do, they want to make sure that the Shallatian 
healers will attend them with all due haste and without a single reservation. 

Of course, the Shallatian healers would help anyone in need no matter how horri 
ble a person he was. They have sworn a sacred oath to aid anyone in need, no mat 
ter what the circumstances may be. In all cases, they try traditional means of healing 
first, but if that fails, they will not hesitate to fall back on their priestly abilities. 

The Shallatians charge reasonable rates for their services, and they are extremely 
understanding in cases of financial hardship. They will happily accept goods and services 
in barter for their assistance. Otherwise, they gladly extend generous terms of credit. 

The Shallatians are so well-respected, though, that if it is discovered that someone 
owes them something, the people of the Last Sea will treat that person harshly until 
he makes good on the debt. Innkeepers will only put him in their worst rooms and 
sell him their cheapest fare, hoping to force him to save enough to be able to com 
pensate the healers. Merchants around the sea will do the same. 

If a person simply refuses to pay up a debt, someone (not a Shallatian, but a 
friend of theirs) will turn the delinquent over to the lawkeepers for harmonization. 
After all, this person's actions are causing no small amount of concern in the com 
munity, and it's up to the lawkeepers to keep the happiness. 



Whereas the dwarves of Kharzden are friendly and open with strangers, the over 500 
elves of Sylvandretta are cold and aloof. They believe that the purity of their bloodline 


46 


needs be preserved, and they hold this above all other concerns. Unlike most other 
elves on Athas, these creatures are fair skinned with light blond hair and pale blue 
eyes. Down the millennia, their line has grown even fairer than ever before, and they 
are now called "ghost elves" by the people of Saragar-even the elves of that fair city. 

Sylvandretta is governed by a high council of seven elders elected from the ghost 
elves' general population. These wise people rule over their people for 21-year 
terms. An election is held every three years, and a new elf is elected to the open 
position. No one is permitted to hold office for two consecutive terms, so they must 
take off at least three years between terms. 

Sylvandretta is located in the Spirit Forest, a massive stand of ancient trees nestled 
between the two arms of the Thunder Mountains, in the southwest section of the val 
ley of the Last Sea. Here, as far from Saragar as one can get and still be under the 
Mind Lords' purview, the ghost elves live in harmony with their natural surround 
ings, sheltered as they are from the horrors the defilers and their ilk have visited 
upon the rest of the planet. 

Sylvandretta is based upon a circle of twelve tremendous trees of life. These tow 
ering trees, each standing nearly two hundred feet tall, support a network of hand 
worked tree houses in which live the twelve great families of the ghost elves. The 
network of rope bridges that crisscross between the trees, high above the ground, is 
nearly as complicated as the web of relationships that connect these twelve families. 

Millennia of inbreeding among these creatures has caused their life spans to be 
cut to half of the traditional elven length. This has spawned a great debate among 
the twelve families and the members of the council. One side believes that the time 
has come to invite new blood into their breeding stock. The other staunchly holds 
that any such action would be tantamount to forever tainting their vaunted blood 
lines in a manner that could never be repaired. 

As such, while most ghost elves will steadfastly refuse to talk to or even allow 
themselves to be seen by a stranger (anyone from outside of Sylvandretta), a sizable 
minority are at least willing to converse with outsiders, even those from beyond the 
Border of Guardians. In either case, both factions group the lawkeepers in along 
with any other outsiders, except for a small force of ghost elf lawkeepers specially 
commissioned by the Mind Lords over five millennia ago as a concession to the 
elves' extreme xenophobia. 

These lawkeeper ghost elves are legendary even among their counterparts from 
Saragar. They are rarely seen outside of Sylvandretta, but when they are, they usually 
are out looking to capture a breaker of their laws. They don't believe in harmoniza 
tion-the best that such a hapless fugitive can hope for is a quick death. 


Waishiki 

Waishiki is a small fishing community situated at the rearmost point of the southern 
bay below the Saragan peninsula. The people there are extremely friendly and happy 
all the time. Strangely, this is because of the town's tragic past. 

Just over a millennia ago, the people of Waishiki were having a problem. Actually, 
they were causing it. The mayor of the town and the rest of the village elders had 
come out condemning the Mind Lords and their horrific practice of harmonization, a 
process (the elders claimed) that robbed people of their right to free will. By living 
under such a totalitarian regime, the people were being forced to give up that exact 
same right, and it was up to someone to finally stand up and speak the truth. 

The Waishikans were supported morally by many homelanders, but few of these 
people behind the scenes were actually nervy enough to speak out loudly in uncon 
ditional support. In the end, they turned out to have been wise. 

The protests were allowed to continue for as long as Barani was in one of her 
manic moods. She was the protector of the meek then, seriously considering any 
issue that her subjects cared to bring to her attention. To her fellow Mind Lords, she 
defended the right of the people to differ with them in their opinions. It was only by 
her efforts that Thesik's hand was stayed from dealing punishment upon the village. 

Then, as inevitably happened, Barani slipped into a state of depression. This 
spelled immediate disaster for the dissidents of Waishiki. Without even consulting 



47 



Thesik or Kosveret, Barani contacted the chief lawmaker and ordered him to take 
every last one of his lawkeepers into Waishiki and harmonize the entire town in one 
fell swoop. It would take too long to root out the real troublemakers, she said, and 
in the meantime, it was best to make the entire village obey the Mind Lords' wishes 
right away instead of waiting until a "better" time. The goddess's orders were carried 
out to the letter, and every man, woman, and child in the entire city was remade 
into the Mind Lords' image. In one fell swoop, the town was entirely loyal to the 
Mind Lords again. 

Since then, things in Waishiki have pretty much remained the same. The faces have 
changed, but the attitude has not. They are each and every one model citizens. The 
lawkeepers are welcomed freely here, as the people have nothing to hide. Outlanders 
are not treated well by the Waishikans for the same reason. Although these new peo 
ple don't have direct, immediate contact with the Mind Lords, they are devout wor 
shippers of the Mind Lords, and if the lawkeeper who preaches to them had some 
thing against people from beyond the Border of Guardians, then so too do they. 

One other thing that makes Waishiki stand out from the other towns is the 
monastery of water clerics that stands in the center of town, just as it has been for 
the past five thousand years. These water clerics (or at least their ancestors) were 
caught in the great cleansing of the town, their minds wiped clear of the very 
thoughts that they were passing on and the instigation rumors of rebellion that they 
had started. 

The water clerics may live in Waishiki, but their sacred place is Marnita itself. These 
priests can often be seen riding sailboards around the coast and even across the sea, 
preaching their faith to each community in turn, their tiny crafts' puddingfish sails flap 
ping in the wind. They are welcomed with open arms into each community that they 
travel to, but never as close friends. The people of the Last Sea know that these priests 
are really puppets of the Mind Lords, and they regard them as spies, so they are always 
careful to keep their wits about them whenever a water cleric is around. 

These water clerics occasionally make pilgrimages into the forests or even the 
mountains searching for a clear spring of running water fresh from the highest peaks. 
For this reason, these priests may often be the first people that an outlander runs into 
on his way into the valley. 



4 8 



Water clerics do not inherently despise outlanders, and they will actually instruct 
them in the proper ways of handling both the water and themselves in the Mind 
Lords' vision of how a city should be. In this, they see themselves acting as a kind of 
harmonizer, although they work verbally and with reason instead of with brute-force 
telepathy. 

As spell casters, though, the water priests are not permitted in Saragar without an 
escort of at least one lawkeeper. Most people don't bother to make the distinction 
between the different types of spell casters. To them, all cut from the same cloth- 
unless, of course, the Mind Lords say differently in a particular case. 

The Lonely Butte 

The Lonely Butte is a geographic wonder, a savage land that thrusts directly out of 
the water, surrounded on all sides by sheer bluffs falling over 200 feet to the sea 
below. The plateau atop the continuous cliff is covered with a lush jungle which all 
sorts of dangerous creatures call home. Fortunately for the rest of the Last Sea, the 
only way on or off of the butte, unless you can climb like a spider or fly, is through 
Blufftown. 

Far behind Ordean's and Sitko's, (see below) there is another infernal contraption 
of a basket and pulleys designed to haul people occupants up a tall, narrow chim 
ney to the top of the Lonely Butte. The elevator shares the binding space with a rag 
ing waterfall which occasionally wanders uncomfortably close to the swinging bas 
ket. This water rushes through a iron grating at the top and lands in a crystal pool far 
below, the source of all of Blufftown's water. A small gate in the grate opens auto 
matically as the basket nears its journey's end, powered like the elevator itself by an 
unseen obsidian orb. 

The plateau of the Lonely Butte is like a land that time forgot. Creatures and 
plants living here date back to even the Blue Age itself. Lizards of all shapes and 
sizes slither through the undergrowth, far below this tropical rain forest's canopy. 

Playful monkeys swing from tree to tree, and shy gorillas fade away from intruders, 
into the mist. 

The main attraction of the Lonely Butte is that the lawkeepers generally refuse to 
go there unless specifically ordered to by the Mind Lords themselves. This is a land 
full of danger, a fact particularly true for those who support the Mind Lords. But 
there are many creatures on this island that care not for politics and will kill indis 
criminately to fill their bellies. 

Blufftown 

This is a small settlement in the side of a bluff on the east edge of the Lonely Butte. 

It's a rough and tumble town where even the lawkeepers fear to tread, and for this 
reason, it's a haven for members of the valley's Underground (a clandestine group of 
people who actively-though secretly-oppose the Mind Lords' perpetual rule) and 
other fugitives from the Mind Lords' justice. 

Blufftown is little more than a couple of inns sitting in a good-sized cave the 
winds and waters have carved out of the east side of the Lonely Butte. These inns sit 
inside this cave some fifty feet above the waves that crash against the base of butte, 
and the only way in or out of the area is by being hauled up in a precarious contrap 
tion consisting of a larger wicker basket and a series of ropes and pulleys. 

The engine for this device is an obsidian orb stolen from the Mind Lords long ago 
by Ordean, the greatest pirate the Last Sea has ever seen. Over the years, it has got 
ten a bit finicky about who it hauls up into Blufftown, and there is only a 75% 
chance that it is working any given hour of the day. 

The operators of the two competing inns are Ordean (a weasely man who 
claims to be descended from the dread pirate of legend) and Sitko, a relative new 
comer to the business of catering to criminals. A prominent member of the 
Underground, Sitko won the inn from its previous owner in a poker match a little 
less than a year ago. 

Ordean's is, simply put, a dive. The walls of this ancient place are rotting from 


49 


long exposure to the sea air without even a passing nod at general maintenance. 
Wind whistles through the slats, and even through the floorboards (which are raised 
about three feet above the uneven rock). Rain, when it can manage to be blown 
under the cave's sheltering roof, leaks through dozens of holes in the roof. The 
floors are nearly as dirty as the sheets on the beds, and the ale is watery and pale. 

Still, if your money's good, Ordean is only too happy to serve you. The prices are 
outrageous-nearly double what they are in Saragar-but Ordean figures he's got a 
captive customer base, so he'll get out of them whatever he can. Ordean is a bit of 
a bigot when it comes to races other than his own (he claims to be human), but no 
matter who the customer is, as along as he's got money, he's fine in Ordean's eyes. 
Ordean treats everyone equally. The dusty-haired little man with the weedy mus 
tache will rip you off no matter who you are-if you give him the chance. 

Things have changed recently for Ordean, though. He had an arrangement with 
the previous owner of Sitko's. The two proprietors fixed prices in Blufftown ensuring 
a hefty profit for them both. Sitko, on the other hand, has balked at making the 
same kind of agreement. He's a revolutionary, not a capitalist. He refuses to lower 
himself to profiteering at the expense of his fellow Undergrounders. 

Competition between the two inns has heated up a great deal since Sitko 
acquired his inn. Ordean's ire at the newcomer has been ameliorated a bit by the 
fact that most of his old patrons have stuck with him just because he's lowered his 
prices on ale to match Sitko's. Besides which, the rough and tumble sorts who like 
to hang out at Ordean's don't much care for the more intellectual Underground 
crowd that Sitko's draws in. 

The Lonely Giants 

By far the most notable occupants of the Lonely Butte are the small family of 
humanoid "crag" giants (see the MC sheet in the appendix to this book) who live in 
on the southwestern edge of the butte in an abandoned city dating back to the Blue 








Age. Portions of the city seem to have almost grown directly from the rocks on 
which the buildings sit, but much of it has crumbled, and many walls and ceilings 
have been torn out by the giants to make room for themselves in buildings meant for 
a people just over a tenth of their size. 

The city, the name of which has long since been lost, hosts about 30 giants (25 
adults and 5 children). The inbreeding problems which have plagued the ghost elves 
are even more prominent here, and the crag giants are at their wits' end trying to 
determine what it is they should do to keep their clan alive. 

Their fate has made the crag giants exceedingly crabby, and they tend to kill first 
and inspect the corpse later. Outlanders who manage to survive the initial onslaught 
long enough for the giants to calm down will find them friendly enough. They are 
interested to glean information about what is happening outside their butte. 

The crag giants wait impatiently for the day that the Mind Lords become weak 
enough for them to finally wreak their revenge. To this end, they have made friends 
with certain members of the Underground, including Sitko. Sometimes they even 
offer shelter to such people. Anything that could cause the Mind Lords harm seems 
like a good idea to these sad creatures as it becomes more and more apparent that 
they are headed for extinction. 

Criker's Pirates 

The Last Sea has known several semi-successful bands of pirates over the years. They 
sail the waves on the hunt for booty to loot from cargo-laden craft scudding along 
the shipping lanes. Eventually, most make a fatal mistake and are brought down by 
the lawkeepers and hauled in for harmonization, but sooner or later another band of 
freebooters always crops up. 

The latest and greatest group of thieves on the open sea is probably the most suc 
cessful one ever. This is likely due to the fact that these pirates rob for principle 
instead of profit, most of the crew being members of the Underground. They sail 
under the command of a robust mul named Criker in a blazingly fast corsair called 
the Mahon. 

As the son of a mostly forgotten sailor on another ship of bandits, Criker has been 
a pirate his entire life. But only in the last few years has he found a cause he feels 
really worth fighting for: bringing the Mind Lords down once and for all. The 
lawkeepers finally caught Criker's father five years back and took him in for harmo 
nization. The man hung himself rather than have his mind violated. Criker fights the 
good fight for his father and all people like him-those too proud to ever allow their 
will to be bent to another's mind. 

A few other pirate bands sail the Last Sea, but they are mostly part-timers, oppor 
tunistic robbers in it only for the profit. Due to centuries of careful socialization in 
the valley, however, even pirate raids on the Last Sea are comparatively orderly 
things. People are not killed for the sheer sport of it, and property is not destroyed 
without a reason. 

Criker's people have had a long and successful run for one reason: they're part of 
the Underground. As such, they have the support of many people. Perhaps most 
importantly, they have earned the friendship of the crag giants on the Lonely Butte, 
and it is in the shadows of the giant village that Criker's pirates make their home, 
safe from intrusion by the lawkeepers, if not from the jungle's other denizens. 

Undertown 

Undertown is the name that the people of Saragar have for the lizard man settlement 
deep beneath the surface of the Last Sea, though the amphibious people have a 
name for it that translates as Nesthaven. Few surface dwellers have ever been to this 
watery village, but an occasional water cleric has been there and back, and the tales 
told of the briny society are amazing. 

The town itself contains three separate tribes of lizard men, each with its own loy 
alties and agendas. Any lizard man can instantly tell the tribe of another lizard man, 
but the differences are far too subtle for an air-breathing humanoid to discern with- 


51 



out spending many long hours studying the creatures. 

The three tribes occasionally have their differences, but they all are entirely loyal 
(at least on the surface) to their king, a hale and hearty reptilian named Nelyrox. The 
lizard king's position is inherited by the eldest living male in the family's line, and 
this family stands outside of the tribal structure, thus implying that there will be no 
favoritism shown to any one tribe. 

In fact, the king is a person like any other, able to be influenced by those he calls 
friends. His wife Malani is of the tribe of Kittos, and so she is able to curry favors for 
her people. Nelyrox's high advisor is a psionicist named Mobji. As the co-leader of 
his own tribe (along with a creature called Jhoban), the mindbender obviously favors 
his own people, and his advice to his king unabashedly displays much of that. 

The people of Xhenrid, the last tribal leader, are actually more loyal to her than to 
the king. If she were to call for a revolt against Nelyrox, it is certain that her tribe 
would rally to her side against all odds. Xhenrid has actually considered committing 
such an atrocious act, knowing full well that it would split her people and cause 
untold deaths. Still, the only thing keeping her ambition for the throne in check is 
that fact that her people are outnumbered almost two to one. 

Despite her warriors' skill, it is certain that Xhenrid would be on the losing side of 
a civil war amongst the lizard men. Until such time as she can convince one or both 
of the other tribes to join her-or she manages to find help from some other quar 
ter-she holds herself in check. She is only willing to begin a blood bath if she is 
sure the spilling of the red fluid into the frothing sea will be to her ultimate benefit. 

To this end, Xhenrid has struck up an alliance with the Underground. The leader 
ship of the Underground is wary about working with such an obviously bloodthirsty 
ally, but it is hard enough to choose your enemies in war, much less your friends. 

King Nelyrox is staunchly on the side of the Mind Lords, just as every lizard king has 
been since the trio saved the amphibians from Keltis. And so the Underground is in 
bed with Xhenrid, like it or not. 

Undertown is an ancient and beautiful city, long untouched by the ravages of war. 
The lizard men have become a peaceful people over the millennia, even going so far 
as to set up their own Psionics Academy aimed at exploring the boundaries of their 
reptilian minds. The lizard men live off of kreel (cattlelike creatures that dwell in the 
depths with them) and kelp farmed from great beds of it which dot the sea. They 
supplement their diet with an occasional fish or even a wild mammal that wanders 
too close to the shores of the Last Sea. 

The greatest threat to the lizard men's way of life is the squark, a giant half-squid, 
half-shark creature which roams Marnita's murky depths. Every so many years, the 
creature attacks Undertown unprovoked, wreaking massive destruction on the hapless 
city, despite the many fortifications the lizard men have built up over the centuries. 

Many expeditions have been formed to hunt the squark over the years. Few of 
them have had any luck with finding the behemoth, and those which have certainly 
didn't survive the experience. Still, the lizard men hold out hope that they will 
someday be able to rid themselves of this seemingly immortal menace. 

Seaways 

Long ago, the psionic masters who ruled the Green Age built a series of under 
ground corridors of stone that stretched for miles into the water-filled ocean that is 
now the Sea of Silt. Standing upon ivory platforms, these people were able to travel 
nearly instantaneously from one end of the passageway to the other. 

After the Mind Lords took control of Saragar, they began to build just such a series 
of tunnels for their own use. It was a massive project, but one that they felt was nec 
essary for the continued defense of the valley of Marnita. After all, if it took their 
lawkeepers hours or even days to get from one end of the valley to another, they 
would find it impossible to respond to any threat that managed to breach the Border 
of Guardians. 

The corridors, which became known as the seaways, linked up all of the places 
shown on the map on this page, providing the lawkeepers with easy access to each 
of the passes through the Thunder Mountains, as well as with each large settlement 


52 


in the valley. The very existence of the corridors was kept secret, as the Mind Lords 
were afraid that, if a powerful psionicist were to discover the transit system, it could 
be used against them. 

A special underwater access point even allowed the travelers to reach Undertown. 
In fact, it was inside the corridor from Saragar to Undertown that the lizard men's 
time-frozen bodies were hidden when Keltis came through the area on his final hunt 
to exterminate the creatures. 

The tunnels were operated by obsidian orbs that moved the ivory platforms along 
at unheard-of speeds. Today, most of these orbs have malfunctioned, and only a few 
of the routes are entirely operational. These marked with a solid line on the map (as 
opposed to the disabled routes, which are marked with a dotted line). 

The only line used today with any regularity is the one that runs from Saragar to 
the South Pass. This way, the large purchases made from the outside twice every year 
can be brought from the gate to the city without fear of attacks by bandits. Other 
than that, the passages are considered unsafe. 

Travelers can try to walk down the passages if they like, but they are unlit and can 
sometimes house strange creatures unseen elsewhere in Athas. It's rumored that the 
seaways were long kept clean by gelatinous cubes, and if these creatures haven't all 
starved to death for lack of something to eat, they could still be down there. Perhaps 
they have managed to survive on the rats that they were summoned to get rid of. 

Unbeknownst to the Mind Lords, Xhenrid of the lizard folk has reestablished the 
line between Undertown and Saragar. She hopes to use it to somehow give aid to 
her new friends in the Underground. 



5aragar J s 

Seaways 

Huddle-atari 

Th* 

friirriing 
f!him* 


Saragar 





53 











The 

Wanderer's 

Journal 

Legendary Saragar, the 
fabled city by the last Sea, 
seems an unimaginable 
paradise to outlanders 
when they first lay their 
aching eyes upon it. Few 
denizens of the city have 
to work; physical slavery 
is unheard of and crime 
is nearly as rare. 

Beneath this gilded 
facade, however, 
lies a horror only 
occasionally 
whispered of 
between even 
those so close as 
husband and 
wife. Everyone is 
Saragar is happy 
because, by law, 
they have to be! 

This rule applies 
to all within the 
city's bounds, 
and many an 
unwary traveler 
has inadvertently 
broken the law 
only to pay the 
ultimate price 




CHAPTER SIX: 



Saragar: 

City by the Sea 


The city of Saragar was unlike any that Kabak had ever seen. There were no walls 
surrounding the place. People simply came and went as they pleased, with no fuss 
ing about with guards or even a gate. He had simply walked along the shore until he 
reached the buildings clustered together at the east end of the sea. There had been 
no sign, and he hadn't been foolish enough to ask anyone, but he was sure that this 
must be Saragar. 

Down at the shore, strange-looking boats actually floated in the water, similar to 
craft he had seen on the Sea of Silt. Kabak was amazed that they did not sink, but 
the people loading crates and such on and off the ships seemed entirely unim 
pressed by what they were doing. Further on down the beach, he saw a number of 
people playing in the water, swimming about and enjoying the waves and the 
warmth of the sun. 

Farther out, he could see some younger people standing on boards and riding the 
surf back onto the beach. His mind boggled at the magic that they must be using to 
stay balanced atop their tiny slabs of polished woods. Even farther out, sails from 
other ships dotted the horizon. Some were so small that they could have held only a 
single person, if that, and others were so large that they must have had enough room 
to carry a small village in their mammoth holds. 

Some of Saragar's citizens were actually lying on the sand almost entirely 
unclothed, their skin unprotected from the sun. A gladiator like himself had long 
since been so burnished as to be nearly immune to the sun's harsh rays, but these 
people were as white as the underbelly of one of those tiny fish he used to haul out 
of that filthy well in Tyr's gladiatorial pits. Kabak knew that it was cooler here in the 
valley than in Tyr, but such a pastime for these people seemed like madness. Still, if 
he was to fit in here, he knew he should follow their example. 

Kabak stripped to the waist and bundled his salt-encrusted shirt together with the 


54 


rest of his things. He lay back, using his tent as a pillow, and within a few short min 
utes, despite the fact he should have known better, he was asleep. 

He awoke several hours later with a sunburn, despite his already deep tan. He 
had roiled on his back about halfway through, so the burn pretty much covered him 
entirely. Kabak turned over to find the sun near setting in the distance, and he 
noticed that he was surrounded by people who had come down to watch this night 
ly event. Pale clouds high in the sky had already turned purplish pink in the fading 
rays. It promised to be beautiful, so Kabak pulled his shirt back on to guard against 
the cooling air and settled back to watch. 

"You are not from around here." The statement came as a whisper in his ear, but 
when he turned around, no one was there. For a moment, he thought he had imag 
ined it, but then it came again. "Do not worry. I am a friend." 

Kabak slapped at his ear as if an insect had flown into it, but the voice didn't stop. 
"Turn around slowly to your right. I am sitting alone behind you, wearing a blue 
tunic. " 

The mul did as he was instructed. A man was there all right. He waved quickly at 
Kabak and then turned away. Kabak did the same. 

"Who are you?" Kabak muttered. 

"As I said, a friend." Obviously the man could easily hear him, despite his low 
ered voice. "I am a member of the Underground, the resistance movement here in 
Saragar that is preparing for the day that the Mind Lords are to be overthrown." 

Kabak snorted. "What's to resist against? Seems like this is paradise." 

"You have a lot to learn, my foreign friend." 

Kabak chuckled to himself. The sun was expanding into a bright orange ball as it 
dipped below the horizon. "So I've been told." 

"You are an outsider," the voice continued. "My organization can help you." 

Kabak considered this for a moment. "Why should I believe you?" he asked. He 
was finally learning to be cautious. He only hoped he hadn't started too late. 

There was a long pause. "If you don't do as I say, you will be picked up by the 
lawmakers -" 

"Who?" 

"The Mind Lords' foot soldiers. The police force of Saragar. They will pick you up, 
and if you're lucky, they'll throw you in jail and 'rehabilitate' you with a little psy 
chic surgery." 

"I haven't been too lucky so far." 

"In that case, you'll be killed on the spot." 

Kabak looked back at the man to see if he was somehow joking with him. The fel 
low simply ignored him until he turned back to watch the sun dip lower into the sea. 

"I'm going to leave now. Once I'm off the beach, come follow after me. Can you 
do that?" 

"I got this far." 

"Good. " 

"By the way," muttered Kabak lowly as he picked up a knife out of his bag and 
stuffed it into his belt, "I'm pretty good with this blade. If this is some kind of trap 
you're leading me into, know one thing: no matter what happens to me, you'll die 
first. " 

Kabak watched the man's steps quicken as he strode away. He could almost hear 
a nervous swallowing. "Understood," was the man's only response. 

Kabak stood up and gathered his gear. Once the fellow had stepped off the beach, 
the gladiator started after him. As he did, he smiled to himself. Maybe he was finally 
starting to learn something after all. 

The fair city of Saragar is the centerpiece in the Mind Lords' collective crown. To 
them, it is a shining example of what they were trying to preserve in the Green Age, 
living proof of their triumph over the disasters that cruel time has visited upon the 
remainder of the planet. It's everything they ever hoped for-and less. 

When the Mind Lords started out, they wanted to build a place where everyone 
would enjoy themselves throughout all of eternity, a place where people could feel safe 
from one another and even from themselves. They just wanted everyone to be happy. 

In a classic case of putting the cart before the horse, the Mind Lords decided that 


55 



Lo wtr- r 




Abandoned 

Wate r f - ^ 
Tow r*7\J 


Main 


Lower cl 


I? alee 


;,5S.s 


56 





































the easiest way to go about doing this was to simple change their people's attitudes 
about things. While this worked well for a while, it meant that the problems that made 
the people unhappy often weren't being solved; they were simply being ignored. 

Today, Saragar is a much different place than it was when the Mind Lords first 
wrested control of the region from Lawgiver Mareet so many millennia ago. The peo 
ple have been socialized to have total and complete respect for the law, no matter 
how ludicrous or petty any individual ordinance may seem. They have basically 
given over control of their lives entirely to the Mind Lords, trusting them in their wis 
dom to know what is best for their people. 

This makes a lot of sense, of course, when one considers that the people worship 
the Mind Lords as their gods. After all, creatures so powerful must be obeyed. Working 
against their wishes is pointless, considering their ineffable might, and their assumed 
divine wisdom. At least, that is what they citizens of Saragar are supposed to think. 

Most Saragans do feel this way, of course, but a sizable and growing minority of 
them are coming to feel discontent with their "gods." The city itself is decaying in 
many different places; the guardians at the border are malfunctioning, letting 
strangers into the valley and malcontents out; and the lawkeepers seem drunk with 
their power, abusing it freely. Chaos is growing, slowly, steadily, and inevitably, 
despite the lawkeepers' commands. The time may finally have come for Saragar to 
make a change. 


The Government 

The theory behind the government of Saragar operates much in the same way today as 
did most of the enlightened cities of the Green Age. The city was ruled over by a law 
maker (or a council of lawmakers, as is the case with the Mind Lords). The laws the 
lawmaker handed down were enforced by a police force known as the lawkeepers. All 
of the bureaucracy generated by a large government was handled by the lawtenders, 
an army of paper pushers who made sure that things kept moving along smoothly. 

The Lawmakers 

Today in Saragar, things work a bit differently than they were originally intended to. In 
many Green-Age cities, the lawmaker was elected by the general populace, giving the 
masses at least some kind of reigns over their government. In Saragar, however, there 
have been no elections for endless millennia, and the common people have no say at 
all in their government, unless they join the lawkeepers or lawtenders. They don't even 
have a chance of outliving their governors-the Mind Lords are immortal, after all. 

Worse yet, whether the populace consciously realizes the fact or not, the Mind 
Lords are insane, and they're usually distant, barely ever coming into contact with 
anyone besides themselves and Lawkeeper Efkenu. When they do, the results are 
often deadly. Like mad gods, the Mind Lords' perception seems to be that the value 
of humanoid life is less than nothing to creatures such as themselves. 

The Lawkeepers 

The lawkeepers are a farce. They enforce the laws arbitrarily, and ultimately only as 
it suits their own desires. 

With the Mind Lords too busy trying to keep their consciousness from burning out 
entirely, the lawkeepers are pretty much on their own. In effect, then, they have 
absolute power over the common folk, and this has corrupted them terribly. The only 
people above them are their superior lawkeepers, and they only intervene in cases 
of gross abuse or when the inferior's plans interfere with their own. 

• Rank One: The Proctors. 

There are three ranks of lawkeepers in Saragar. The first is that of proctor. The 
streets of Saragar are filled with proctors, mostly second-rate bullies who would 
run crying for their mothers were someone to step up and bloody their noses. No 
one dares take such an action, though, as the penalty for doing so is harmoniza- 


57 



tion so severe as to ensure that they will never be capable of having such an 
impulse again. Consequently, most people are forced to stew in their anger and 
outrage, hiding it behind a thin facade of saccharine niceness. 

• Rank Two: The Lawkeepers. 

The second rank of lawkeepers are known simply as...lawkeepers. They are in 
charge of overseeing the proctors, but since they leave their offices only in the 
direst of emergencies (something which rarely if ever happens in Saragar), they 
have little real knowledge of what happens on the streets on a daily basis. Even if 
they did, it is unlikely they would act against the proctors. After all, they were 
once proctors themselves. 

• Rank Three: The Chief Lawkeeper. 

The top lawkeeper is called the chief lawkeeper, and the current one is 
Lawkeeper Efkenu. Efkenu has won his position by the simple fact that he actually 
has faith in the Mind Lords and their laws. He had better, since he's the only per 
son in the entire city who communicates with any of them directly and on an sort 
of regular basis. One or another of the Mind Lords probes his mind regularly for 
treasonous thoughts, and they would know instantly if he were involved in some 
sort of plot to bring them or anyone else in the city to harm. 

Lawkeeper Efkenu does a decent job of overseeing his forces, but the problem is 
that his interpretations of the laws leaves them open to a tremendous amount of 
abuse. In his eyes, all offenses are equal, so littering is as significant an indication of 
a mental deficiency that requires harmonization as is murder. And so it is the proc 
tors who really run the city. 

On the streets, then, the proctors are not only the people to catch a criminal, they 
also pass immediate judgment and sentence. The harshness of the sentence can be 
alleviated a bit if the accused offers to make an on-the-spot donation to the Mind 



58 








Lords' church. A willing proctor just might see this as a sign of repentance and let 
the offender off with little more than a warning. 

For this reason, only the wealthy are especially willing to risk breaking the law, as 
only they can afford to do so. The poor are sometimes forced to do so, but with 
them the proctors have a one-bite rule: after the first offense they are harmonized. 

Of course, even the poor sometimes have something to trade for their mental free 
dom; information and other favors often buy a person's way out of a tough situation. 

In Saragar, the proctors are on the top of the heap. Nearly everyone would like to 
be one-everyone, that is, who doesn't really want to help people 
The other people can become lawtenders instead. 

The Lawtenders 

The competition for becoming a lawtender isn't nearly as stiff as it is for the position 
of lawkeeper. Lawtenders have a lot of the responsibility in Saragar and comparative 
ly little of the power. Still, any lawkeeper who has put in a requisition for any kind 
of equipment or aid knows how important it is to keep the lawtenders happy. 
Otherwise, the lawkeeper may end up cooling his heels for several days or even 
weeks, waiting for an annoyed bureaucrat to forgive him for some offense. 

Top-level lawtenders like Chief Lawtender Urupai (a lawful-good, 4th-level, 
human psionicist), do wield some real power in the city. They are secure in the 
knowledge that they are already harmonized naturally, so if a harmonizer gets hold 
of them, they will find little if anything to alter in their minds. 

Lawtender Urupai is truly a woman of sweetness and light. In her mind, there is 



The 

Last 


The Distillery 
and Water 
Tower 

E vj.ipc.i rating 
TarcL 



59 































no problem that can't be solved by a little old-fashioned determination and positive 
thinking. She acknowledges that there are some problems of corruption among the 
lawkeepers, but she has been assured by Lawkeeper Efkenu himself that measures 
are being taken to correct the situation. Urupai is not certain that she has as much 
faith in Efkenu's lawkeepers as he apparently does, but she is willing to give him the 
benefit of the doubt, as she is sure that is what the Mind Lords would have her do. 

Like most lawtenders, Urupai is dedicated to her job, and she attends religious 
services honoring the Mind Lords once per day, usually first thing in the morning 
before she goes to work. Occasionally she has reason to skip services for one vitally 
important reason or another, but on these occasions, she is comforted by the fact 
that she knows that the Mind Lords want her to do what makes her happy: making 
other people happy. 

Despite the fact that the lawtenders of Saragar are undoubtedly the most relent 
lessly optimistic people on the face of the planet, they are not excellent bureaucrats. 
They are unwilling to do the kind of wheeling and dealing that allows other organi 
zations to survive (including that of the lawkeepers). They insist in doing everything 
by the book. The Mind Lords have told them that doing this will make people happy 
in the long run, and that's their job to fulfill. 

Distillery and the Water Tower 

The one technological marvel which really permits Saragar to survive is its massive 
desalinization plant, set up by the Mind Lords during the time of the Cleansing 
Wars. Up until that time, Saragar had gotten all of its fresh water from a massive 
river that ran down through what is today the Burning Plains. The source of this river 
has long since dried up, and when this was just beginning to happen, the Mind 
Lords began designing plans for an arrangement to ensure that the citizens of Saragar 
would never want for fresh water again, no matter what happened outside the 
Border of Guardians. 

To this end, the Mind Lords built an innovative, psionically powered factory 
designed to turn some of the plentiful supply of salt water near to Saragar into life- 
giving fresh water. The facility is basically a giant distillery. Water is pumped from 
the sea into a holding tank and then psionically heated to the boiling point. The 
steam is then captured and allowed to flow down sterilized copper coils until it falls 
into another holding tank on the other end. 

Perhaps even more amazing is what happens next. The water is pumped out of the 
holding area in the distillery and up into a third massive holding tank atop a tremen 
dous tower. This tank is hooked up to a citywide system of plumbing that pipes 
water into every building within Saragar proper. The tower is high enough to ensure 
decent water pressure throughout the entire city. This, along with the amazing pip 
ing, makes Saragar the only city on Athas with running water and indoor plumbing. 
Wealthy homeowners and finer establishments even have indoor water closets com 
plete with flush toilets. 

Having such an elaborate public utility has had a couple of significant effects on 
the culture of the citizens of Saragar. For one thing, they have an almost unbeliev 
able level of personal hygiene. Everyone in the city bathes at least once a day. Also, 
problems with contagious diseases are lessened greatly, as the people can now wash 
their clothes and kitchenware regularly. 

The fact is that the people of Saragar take their watery wealth for granted. After 
all, it has been in place for millennia, and to their mind there is no reason why it 
shouldn't be there for a few more. The only problem is that the entire system is run 
by the ever-present obsidian orbs, and as everywhere else in the valley, these orbs 
are slowly falling into decay. 

Although the means of constructing new orbs, or even placing new psyches into 
the old ones, has long since been lost, the lawtenders are continually coming up 
with innovative new ways to patch up the current system. Fortunately, it contains 
multiple backups and redundancies from when it was first constructed, giving the 
lawtenders a lot of time to experiment with a solution to the incipient trouble. Also, 
the concepts on which it is based are fairly simple. 


60 


All that is really needed to keep things running, at least at a minimum of efficien 
cy, are a few telekinetic orbs to pump the water around and an orb or two with the 
ability to generate enough heat to boil the water. That and the principal that water 
runs downhill pretty much sum up how the entire system works. 

Still, pipes rust, burst, and sometimes just clog. An entire subdivision of extremely 
busy lawtenders called plumbers has been developed to care for the aging system 
and to shore it up wherever possible. Where this is not possible, the plumbers have 
developed all sorts of new ways to reroute the water around the problem areas as 
efficiently as possible. 

Originally, many homes even had hot water, warmed up psionically by an obsidi 
an orb. These days, the number of places with that kind of amenity is drastically 
falling off, as are places with psionically powered devices to clean house, move 
horseless carriages, and cook food smokelessly. The demand for the obsidian orbs far 
exceeds the supply, but since there is nothing that can really be done about it, the 
lawtenders simply do the best that they can with what they have. Meanwhile, the 
lawkeepers are ready and willing to order a harmonization of anyone who gripes too 
loudly, so there are few overt complaints. 



Palace 


The political, religious, and architectural centerpiece of Saragar is the massive palace 
that overlooks the entire metropolis. There is literally not a street in the city from 

which an observer cannot see at least the top of the palace and the statues of the 

three Mind Lords slowly rotating above it all. The three sculptures stand atop a nar 
row circular base, each facing outward toward the city. The base is telekinetically 
rotated so that each member of the trio can see every part of the city once per hour. 

The people of Saragar actually tell time by the statue's rotations. At the beginning 

of every hour, the statue of Thesik faces directly west. Metaphorically, this works well, 

since Thesik is the Saragan god of death, and it is he who beats out the time that 
eventually passes everyone by (except the Mind Lords themselves). He faces west, as 
this is where the "promised land" is in Saragan mythology, the land of the dead to 
which Thesik guides his people, after their time among the living has come to an end. 

When facing west, Thesik is also looking out over the entire city and almost all of 
the valley of the Last Sea, the whole of the Mind Lords' domain. Not so coinciden 
tally, at the same time that Thesik looks to the west, the Burning Plains lie directly 
behind him to the east. This land represents the eternity of flaming torment that 

awaits the spirits of the unharmonized when they die, those whose mental patterns 

do not concur with those of the Mind Lords and their laws. 

The palace itself sits on a low hill at the eastern edge of the town, the highest 

point in the entire area. The Burning Plains lie many miles behind it, but the palace 

still marks the eastern border of Saragar. While many farms lie between it and the 
Border of Guardians, no part of the city may extend any further east than the palace. 

Saragar holds more than 30,000 people (there are an additional 10,000 living else 
where in or around Marnita), but since the place was built to accommodate up to 
50,000, there is no lack of room here. For this reason, many of the streets around the 
palace are deserted. Although they would never admit to it, most people in Saragar 
would rather live closer to the beach and as far away from the Mind Lords as possible. 

The palace is built more for awe-inspiring beauty than defense. The Mind Lords 
are confident in their ability to defend themselves (particularly considering their cur 
rent state as obsidian orbs buried in a secret subterranean chamber). Besides which, 
any creature or army that could pierce the Border of Guardians would certainly have 
no problem with a restraining wall. At least, that was the logic when the palace was 
built. These days, the border is holed like a termite-infested surfboard, giving spotty 
protection to the valley. 

Palace security is also surprisingly lax. The front gate stands open at all times, 
although it is watched by an assignment of lawkeepers day and night. Still, a canny 
thief or a fast-talker could likely walk right into the Mind Lords' bedchambers or 
even the council room in which the trio meets with Lawkeeper Efkenu on a more or 
less daily basis. 


61 






6 2 












But the Mind Lords and the lawkeepers alike would find it nearly inconceivable 
that someone would even consider trying to do them harm. Occasionally a proctor 
is attacked on the street, usually by a malcontent desperately trying to escape har 
monization, but it has been literally centuries since anyone was murdered in Saragar. 

The palace does have a vast treasure vault which is guarded day and night and is 
only accessible by teleportation or tunneling through a ten-foot thick wall. The city's 
phenomenal wealth in jewels and precious metals is kept here, and it is only rarely 
used for any purpose other than to strike awe in visitors. 

The only other place of real note in the entire complex is the armory, a vast build 
ing stacked with rack after rack of expertly fashioned metal weapons, each of which 
would be worth a merchant's ransom outside of the valley. Here they are kept out of 
the way on the off chance that they might someday be needed. In all of Saragar, only 
the lawkeepers ever carry anything more deadly than a knife. The proctors and their 
superiors tote around metal rapiers on their hips, but they rarely if ever are called 
upon to use them. 

Still, since the art of working metals into blades has largely been lost in Saragar, 
the weapons in the armory are kept well-protected. They may very well have to last 
the city an eternity. 


The Port 

The way that most people get in and out of Saragar is by boat. Otherwise, it's often a 
long hike around to get to the peninsula on which the city rests. All of these people 
enter the city through the port located on the southeastern end of the Saragan peninsu 
la. For this reason, the port is the part of Saragar that the lawkeepers watch most closely. 

Most people pass through Saragar's port without a problem, but the lawkeepers 
collect their taxes on any cargo moving through the area. They also reserve the right 
to inspect any ship at will for any reason whatsoever. Ships hailing from outside of 
Saragar receive the most such attention, for the lawkeepers know that the people on 
these ships are less in harmony with the law of Saragar than those who were born 
and raised in their fair city. 

As ports go (most travelers will only have those from the Silt Sea to compare it 
with), the one at Saragar is amazingly clean and friendly. Large ships are telekineti 
cally towed into position in the harbor, and if there aren't too many of them there at 
a time, they are anchored, into place by telekinesis as well. Some of the better ships 
actually have their own telekinetic anchors, but with working obsidian orbs becom 
ing scarcer all the time, most boats use metal anchors instead (each of which would 
certainly be worth a fortune outside of the valley). 

Like any other port, this one has the requisite fishmongers, taverns, and inns, but 
the character of the sailors is never belligerent or mean. The taverns are filled with 
male and female sailors drinking their fill, but a fight never breaks out, for fear that 
the lawkeepers would be called in to harmonize the entire bunch. If these people 
need to let loose some steam, they can do it in any one of the other ports along the 
shore of the Last Sea. 


The Beach 

Most people in Saragar spend at least a few days a week down on the gorgeous, 
white-sand beach that runs from the port all the way around the peninsula. The sun 
is almost always shining, and the people like to doff the loose-fitting gowns that they 
usually wear, and kick off their sandals to lie in the sun. Most are modest enough to 
wear a bathing suit of some sort, but nudity does not bear many taboos in Saragan 
society. The north side of the peninsula is "clothing-optional." 

On the beach, children play in the sand, and teenagers and adults sail tiny boats 
or surf or sailboard around the peninsula's point. The waves crash endlessly against 
the sand, carrying all sorts of things up from Marnita's depths, and the older people 
like to spend a lot of time combing the beach for rare shells and the occasionally 
even more unusual object. 


63 




Few people in the city have to work much. Even with the number of obsidian orbs 
failing, most of the city's psionic infrastructure still exists. The dirty jobs of life, like clean 
ing and such, are all still automated. There are more homes in the city than people, so 
there is no need for building new ones. About the only actual work to be done anymore 
is maintaining what is already in place, and the lawtenders take care of most of that. 

Consequently, Saragar is a hedonistic beach society. The motto is, "If it makes you 
happy, do it!" Of course, you have to be careful not to lessen another person's hap 
piness with your actions. This might mean you have dissonant thoughts which may 
then have to be harmonized. 

Underground 

Despite the relative pleasantness of life in Saragar and the valley at large, not every 
one who lives there is content, although it would hardly be safe to admit that to the 
lawkeepers. There is no quicker way to guarantee yourself a visit to the harmonizers. 
But some people recognize that they are living in society in decay, one that relies on 
powerful immortals for just about every aspect of their existence-and they are com 
ing to finally realize that these individuals are mad. 

These people make up the infamous Underground which has been growing in the 
valley of the Last Sea for the last few hundred years. Its membership grows with each 
passing month, with every obsidian orb that fails, with every person who has a loved 
one taken away by the lawmakers for harmonization. 

Still, the lawkeepers regard the Underground as one of the biggest jokes in 
Saragar. Confident that no one could stand up to the might of the Mind Lords, they 
feel entirely unthreatened by this clandestine crew. However, if it makes these peo 
ple feel happy to quietly think of themselves as dissidents, that's fine. After all, the 
Mind Lords just want every one to be happy, right? 

Of course, when dissidents grow voluble, as they sometimes do, they disturb 
other people and maybe even infect them with their own unhappiness. Such a thing 
cannot be allowed. These criminals are quickly hunted down and harmonized or, at 
the very least, chased from fair Saragar forever. Their kind are not wanted in this, the 
happiest place on all of Athas. 

Most members of the Underground are just the sort of people that the lawkeepers 
think they are. They just like having something to complain about and someone they 
can complain to without getting arrested. A small minority, though, is a lot more active. 

The members of the real Underground, as they like to think of themselves, fre 
quently speak out on street corners against the Mind Lords, and then run away as 
soon as lawkeepers arrive. They are constantly cooking up all sorts of crackpot 
schemes that involve anything from destroying the Border of Guardians to assassinat 
ing the Mind Lords themselves. 

Most people balk at the thought of "deicide," however. Some members of the 
Underground have been outside and know how much they owe to their mad gods 
for saving them from the disaster which has befallen the rest of the planet. They just 
want to get the Mind Lords' attention, to jar them out of their insanity and get the 
city back to the way it was in the days of its prime. 

Oddly enough, many leaders of the Underground are the people most feared in 
all of the valley: the harmonizers themselves. After all, these master psionicists see 
into the minds of the disturbed on a daily basis. They know what is going on behind 
the scenes in the city, and if they have any sort of conscience at all, it deeply dis 
turbs them to see what is happening to their people. 

This fact has a decided benefit for the Underground, as any prominent dissidents who 
are brought in for harmonizing are usually released unharmed, the lawkeepers fully 
believing that the harmonizer has altered a mind which he has in fact left untouched. 

As the city of Saragar falls further into decay and the Border of Guardians lets 
more and more people and even monsters through, it is only a matter of time before 
the lawkeepers find themselves facing a general revolt against them and their mostly 
silent masters. That day could come next week or it could come next year, but unless 
something is done to shore up the Last Sea's psionically engineered underpinnings, 
that day will certainly come. 


64 



CHAPTER SEVEN: 


In new places like the Last 
Sea, there are always 
new rules and customs 
for the traveler to learn. 
Visitors cannot simply 
assume that they can 
conduct themselves as 
they always have in their 
homelands. Those who 
do inevitably find them 
selves in trouble. 
The words I 
give you now I 
have said many 
times before, but 


The 

Wanderer's 

Journal 


New Rules 


Kabak Giantkiller cursed and vomited once again. The contents of his belly splashed 
into the waves with a sickening splat. He gripped the railing even tighter and 
groaned. 

Kabak had never dreamed that he could hate water as much as he did at that 
moment Ever since Kirka had first told him about the Last Sea, he had pined for it 
like he had for no other place he had ever known. Right now, though, he wished to 
be as far away from it as possible. The boat he rode took another dip into a roiling 
wave and left his stomach far behind. 

The man from the beach-his name was D'Arsten-slapped him on the back and 
laughed. "Don't worry about it, outlander. You'll live." 

The mul wiped his mouth with the back of his hand and looked up at this man 
who had gotten him into so much trouble with the lawkeepers. He tried to generate 
some hatred for D'Arsten, but he felt too weak. "That's what I was afraid of," he 
moaned. 

D'Arsten laughed again. He straightened and pointed off into the distance. "There 
it is: the Lonely Butte. You'll be safe from the lawkeepers there. No one goes there 
unless they absolutely have to." 

Kabak dipped his hand into the sea and rinsed his mouth with the salt water. The 
tangy liquid removed the sour taste, mostly. "If it wasn't for you, 'friend,' I wouldn't 
need to be on this blasted boat. People weren't meant to stand on anything that 
moves like the floor of this ship. How do you stand it?" 

D'Arsten chuckled. Kabak was learning to hate that laugh. "It's not so bad once 
you get used to it, outlander." 

"I'll take your word for it." But the gladiator wasn't planning on ever getting on a 
boat again. Still, his bile seemed to have settled back into his stomach for now-or 
he'd vomited it all out. He turned and set his back to the railing, looking up at the 
Undergrounder. "So what's this 'Lonely Butte'? Why won't the lawmakers go there?" 

D'Arsten affected a far-away look as he stared off at the plateau rising out of the 
water in the distance. "It is an untamed place. The Mind Lords have declared it off 
limits as a kind of nature reserve, a haven for creatures of all sorts that survived the 
fall of the Green Age. If they leave the confines of the butte, they are fair game and 
can be attacked and killed by any who come across them. Over the centuries, 


they still bear 
repeating: When 
you are far from 
home, do not act 
as you would 
there. Respect 
the local peoples 
and their cultures, 
keep your mind open to 
new experiences, and 
always be wary, even in 
situations that seem 
familiar. Even the familiar 
can turn suddenly strange 
in a foreign land. 


65 


though, most of the creatures have figured this out, and now few of them stray from 
their home." 

Kabak's interest was piqued. "So what's the big deal?" 

D'Arsten's demeanor turned grim. "With the exception of the Lonely Butte, most 
of the valley has been rid of monsters that would threaten the lives of innocents. 
Granted, there are some predators still about, but they rarely are foolhardy enough 
to actually attack a humanoid. The creatures of the Lonely Butte, though, are the 
deadliest monsters in the valley. Even the lawmakers fear them." 

Now Kabak was confused and more than a little disturbed. "Clear up one point 
for me then. If this place is so dangerous, why are we headed there?" 

D'Arsten's disposition brightened. "Ah, my friend, I see that you do not trust me 
fully yet," he said with a wicked grin. "Good, good! You are learning." 

Kabak stared at him, his face showing no reaction. 

"Ah, yes. We are heading to the Lonely Butte for the very reason I just mentioned. 
The lawmakers will not come here. Only desperate men set foot on the Lonely 
Bluff. " 

Kabak thought about it for a second. "And they don't get much more desperate 
than us." 

D'Arsten clapped his hands once and smiled. "You see, you are learning!" 

Kabak grinned in spite of himself. He could almost end up liking D'Arsten if he 
weren't sure that the man was using him as a pawn in some kind of plot he had yet 
to fathom. 

Kabak rubbed a massive hand across his jaw. The prospect of a fight with some 
thing that he could actually hit was taking his mind off of the rocking of the boat. 
"What kind of critters did you say were on this butte of yours?" 

D'Arsten spread his hands wide. "Oh, all sorts of kinds. The most impressive, of 
course, are the massive crag giants who hurl lightning about in the middle of the 
massive thunderstorms that rock our fair valley." 

"Excuse me," interrupted Kabak, "but did you say 'giants'?" 

D'Arsten looked worried for a moment. "Of course. They are legendary within the 
entire valley. Do you have such creatures in your homeland, my friend?" 

Kabak grinned from ear to ear. "You might say that. I met a few in the arena back 
in Tyr. They don't call me Kabak Giantkiller for nothing." 

D'Arsten arched his eyebrows at the mul. 

Kabak leaned back and laughed. He was starting to feel a lot better. "It's about 
time," he rumbled, "about time I stopped learning lessons and started teaching a few 
of my own!" His laughter echoed against the oncoming bluffs as the boat sailed 
closer to the fabled butte. 

The Last Sea is a unique place on Athas, and it therefore requires some new rules to 
cover the unique kinds of situations that are bound to crop up when adventurers 
from Tyr explore this strange new land. After all, a large body of water is an entirely 
new concept to most Athasians, and they will deal with in a different way than do 
people who have had easy access to water their entire lives. 

Dehydration 

Unlike on most of the surface of Athas, dehydration is not much of a concern in the 
valley of the Last Sea. The valley is still hot. The Mind Lords' efforts have not been 
able to affect the effects of the sun, only to prevent the debilitating side effects that 
magic could have on such lush terrain. 

Still, the cooling effects of being near a large body of water have tempered the 
effects of the heat a great deal. The air in the valley is moist when compared to that 
of the desert outside, and this too helps the denizens of the valley beat the heat, as 
the continual breezes off the Last Sea cool the entire land. 

In the valley of the Last Sea, characters and creatures only need about half as 
much water as they usually would. See the Dark Sun boxed set for specific informa 
tion about how much this is. 


66 



Humidity 


The flip side of living next to such a great body of water is the humidity. Last Sea 
denizens who have existed with such conditions their entire lives are used to this, 
but outlanders are not. A character who attempts strenuous activity before he 
becomes acclimated to the heavy humidity of the air is inviting trouble. 

For the first 2d4 days that the outlander is in the valley of the Last Sea, the follow 
ing rules are in effect. Every fifteen minutes (or fraction thereof) of strenuous activity 
that the character engages in during the daylight hours causes a temporary loss of 1 
Constitution point. 

These lost Constitution points can immediately be recovered at the rate of 1 point 
for each hour of rest in the shade. 


Example of Humidity's Effects 


While walking through the streets of Saragar, the newly arrived Kabak is accosted by 
a proctor. After a short exchange of words in which Kabak is unable to satisfy the 
proctor's demands for information, Kabak decides to punctuate his final response 
with a right hook to the proctor's jaw. 

The ensuing brawl is short and sweet. At the end of it, the DM automatically 
deducts 1 point from Kabak's Constitution. 

Leaving the proctor sprawled senseless on the ground, Kabak enters a bar and 
asks for a drink. He relaxes, enjoying himself immensely as he nurses his bruised 
knuckles. Before even 15 minutes have passed, though, Kabak hears a row being 
raised in the street. Soon after, three lawmakers storm into the tavern. 

Realizing that they are looking for him, Kabak slips out through the back door of 
the tavern and sets off running. Twenty minutes later, Kabak decides that he's given 
his new friends the slip. He ducks into an inn and asks for a room. 

The DM deducts 2 more points from Kabak's Constitution. Worn from the humidi 
ty, Kabak retires to his room for a midafternoon nap. After three hours of uninterrupt 
ed rest, all 3 lost points of Constitution will be fully restored. 



Cold 


The fact is that it rains in the valley of the Last Sea, and it rains hard. Most out 
landers, never having been witness to a real storm before, honestly don't know 
enough to come in out of the rain. 

Whenever the outlanders are caught outside during a storm, chances are good that 
they will just revel in it. After all, water is literally falling from the heavens-and it is free! 
However, when they're all done doing that, have them each make a Constitution check. 

Those who fail the check have chilled and caught a cold. For the next several 
days, the hapless hero will be ill, sneezing and coughing and generally feeling terri 
ble. For the duration of the infection, halve each of the character's ability scores. 
Remember, outlanders have no built-up immunities to these colds, and their suffer 
ing is bound to be bad. 

The best cure for a cold is bed rest. After a character contracts a cold, have him make 
another Constitution check every morning, assuming he slept the night before. If the 
character spent the full day resting in bed, use his full Constitution score. If he was active 
during the day, stopping to rest only at night, the check is made against his halved 
Constitution score. If the check succeeds, the character is well again. Characters who do 
not sleep at all are not entitled to a Constitution check to see if their cold is over. 


Example of Catching Cold 


While strolling along the shores of Marnita, Kabak is caught in a sudden storm 
which seemingly springs up out of nowhere. Enraptured in the novelty of the experi 
ence, he never stops to think how it might affect his health. 

Kabak is a healthy mul, otherwise he would never have made it out of Tyr's gladiatorial 


67 



pits. His Constitution is 18. He rolls 1d20 and gets a 19, failing his Constitution check. 

By the time Kabak returns to Saragar, he is as weak as a kitten. Not really under 
standing what's happening, he decides to tough it out. After pushing through a miser 
able day of exploring, he camps for the night, and the next morning the DM calls for 
another Constitution check. Since Kabak didn't rest the entire day, his Constitution is 
effectively 8. He rolls a 12 and blows it, so he's going to be sick tomorrow, too. 

The next morning, Kabak's head hurts so much that he decides that the city will 
still be there for him to explore tomorrow. He lies in bed all day long and has the 
innkeeper bring him some kank honey soup. 

After he sleeps that night, he makes another Constitution check. He rolls a 12 
again, but since he rested all day, he gets to use his full Constitution of 18 this time, 
and he makes the check. The next day, Kabak rises feeling better, and goes out shop 
ping for an umbrella. 

Drinking Sea Water 

Outlanders may be so overcome with awe when they first lay eyes upon Marnita that 
they don't bother to wonder whether or not its water is fit to drink. There are few 
bodies of salt water on Athas, and this one dwarfs any of the brackish wells found 
elsewhere by several orders of magnitude. 

When an outlander first tries to take a drink of Marnita, the DM should let him. 
The character should then make a check against his Wisdom to see if he figures out 
that the water is undrinkable. 

The water tastes salty, and this should tip off the smart traveler to the fact that it's 
not potable. If this doesn't happen, though, the outlander may very well drink his fill 
of the stuff. 

Anyone who drinks more than a glass of sea water ends up with a terrible feeling 
of nausea. Each affected character must make a Constitution check to keep down the 
contents of his stomach. 



68 






New Proficiencies 

The Last Sea is a truly unusual part of Athas, and as such it requires a few new profi 
ciencies that have not been covered elsewhere. Each of these new proficiencies is 
described in full here. 


New Nonweapon Proficiencies 


GENERAL 

Proficiency Slots 

Sailing 1 

Sailboarding 1 

Surfing 1 


Ability Modifier 

Dexterity 0 

Dexterity -2 

Dexterity -3 


Sailing 

This proficiency allows a character to handle and operate a wind-driven water craft. 
The craft in question can be anything from a one-person raft all the way up to a 
triple-masted ship. Of course, the larger the vessel, the more difficult it is to operate, 
and the more hands are required. 

Each seagoing craft has a certain number of crew required to operate it at peak effi 
ciency (this is listed in each ship's description). For the craft to work perfectly smoothly, 
each member of the crew must make a check against his sailing proficiency. For each 
crewmember who fails his proficiency check, the ship's movement is reduced by 1 
(down to a minimum of 0). If there are not enough qualified sailors on the ship, then 
the checks for the unfilled positions are considered automatically failed. 

If the ship's movement ever equals 0, the ship is floundering. In the case of small 
er craft (three crewmen or less), the ship may capsize. Each character sailing the ship 
must make a Dexterity check. If all fail, the ship capsizes. 

Characters do not have to make a sailing check at any specified time, only when 



69 



















something unusual happens that might test their skills. This could be anything from 
rough seas to a raging thunderstorm or an attack by a sea monster of some sort. 

For each member missing from the crew, a penalty of -1 is applied to the profi 
ciency check. Other penalties should be applied at the DM's discretion. For 
instance, if the ship is being attacked by a squark during a hurricane, a penalty of up 
to -4 might apply, not including any penalties for crew members taken from their 
posts to defend the ship against the squark. 

Sailboarding 

A character with the sailboarding proficiency can ride one of the sailboards used by 
denizens of the Last Sea to commute about the water. A Last Sea sailboard is a high 
ly polished slab of wood similar to a surfboard. The major difference is that a sail is 
mounted to the center of the board. 

To use the sailboard, the character grasps the handle that runs along both sides of 
the sail and turns so that the sail fills with wind. As the sailboard begins moving, the 

character leans back, steering the board in the direction that he desires. 

Sailboarding is generally a solitary means of transport. Although some tandem 
models are in use on the Last Sea, they are generally held to be novelties more than 
serious transportation. 

Surfing 

A character with this proficiency can safely ride Marnita's surf. Most times, people use 

a surfboard to properly pull off such a feat, but skilled surfers can actually ride tremen 

dous waves using only their bellies. This difficult feat carries a -2 penalty, however. 

Surfing isn't really useful as a means of transportation. It is possible to ride or pad 
dle a surfboard across the Last Sea, but there are many other, better ways to get 
across the water. Surfing is, on the other hand, a great way to spend a sunny after 
noon, and many citizens of Saragar can be found out on the water catching waves 
when the weather is good enough for it. 

Every time the character attempts to surf, he needs to make a check against his 
surfing proficiency. A failure means that the character has "wiped out." If the charac 
ter fails by more than 10, he has suffered a terrible accident. The unfortunate surfer 
must then pass a Dexterity check or take 1d6 points of damage (from running into 
an unseen rock, getting hit by his own board, or some such thing.). 



7 0 


Wind 


Sometimes it may be important to know from what direction the wind is coming. On 
the Last Sea, the prevailing winds are from the west. Still, the wind has been known 
to change from time to time. Any time you need to know the direction of the wind, 
roll on the table below. Every twelve hours after that, roll again. 

Of course, if the conditions are stormy or even if there's just a big blow going on, 
you might want to check more often. In the middle of one of the infrequent mon 
soons that ravage the Last Sea, you may want to check every 15 minutes or so, or 
even more often than that. 

Wind-powered vessels going with the wind can reach 125% of their full move 
ment rate. Such craft going against the wind (and therefore having to tack from side 
to side) travel at only 75% of their full movement rate. 

Last Sea Wind Table 

2d10 Roll Source of Wind 

2-3 No wind 

4-5 Southeast 

6-7 South 

8-9 Southwest 

10-13 West 

14-15 Northwest 

16-17 North 

18-19 Northeast 

20 East 



On Athas, there is no such thing as an untrained swimmer (as defined in the Player's 
Handbook). A character who has the swimming nonweapon proficiency can swim; a 
character without this skill cannot. Unlike on other worlds where most people have had 
at least a little exposure to large bodies of water, on Athas, most people have never even 
dreamed of seeing a pool full of water for swimming, much less an entire sea of it. 

Characters who can swim should simply use the standard rules. These cover 
everything a DM needs to know about any situations that may arise. 

A character without the swimming nonweapon proficiency who finds himself in 
the water is in serious trouble. 


Drowning 


The Player's Handbook also has full rules for how long a character can hold his 
breath. One thing these rules do not account for is panic. If a character suddenly 
finds himself over his head in water (say, from being knocked over a sailboat's rail 
ing), he must make a Wisdom check to see if he manages to remember to take a 
good gulp of air before hitting the water. Other than that, the rules for holding your 
breath are pretty much the same. 

Once a character who is underwater fails to hold his breath, he begins to drown. 
Within 1d6 rounds, the character will be dead. If the character is hauled out of the 
water, however, it is possible to resuscitate him. 

Any character with any healing ability (a healing spell, a psionic ability that heals, 
or the healing nonweapon proficiency) can attempt to revive the drowned character. 
If the healer manages to restore at least 1 hit point to the drowning victim, the victim 
can make a Constitution check. If the check succeeds, the character is revived. If the 
check fails, the healer should feel free to try again. 

Once the character has been drowned for over 5 rounds (beyond the 1d6 roll 
above), he is dead, and no normal means of resuscitation will have any affect. 

Revived characters are temporarily incapacitated and can do nothing more than 
cough up water for 1d6 rounds. In addition to this effect, they receive 1d6 points of 


71 


damage. If this kills damage them, then no amount of resuscitation efforts will have 
any further effect upon them at all. 

Magic 

Magic is something that is simply not allowed within the borders of the valley of the 
Last Sea. When most citizens of Saragar see something that is undeniably magic, 
they immediately launch an alarm. No one that lives in the valley wants to see their 
home destroyed in the horrifying manner of the rest of the planet. 

Still, this does not mean that wizards are never permitted within the boundaries of 
the Mind Lords' domain. It is just that these wizards had better not reveal themselves 
as such to anyone who cares about such matters. Even dedicated enemies of the 
Mind Lords are unwilling to suffer the presence of wizards gladly. 

If a defiler draws spell energy within the valley of the Last Sea, use the following 
table to determine the radius of destruction of vegetation caused. 

The Last Sea is a living body of water complete with an extremely hardy ecosys 
tem. The amount of plants in it in the form of seaweed and algae and other micro 
scopic bits make it the densest concentration of plant life on the entire planet. 
Therefore, it can withstand the casting of defiling magic better than even a mighty 
forest. This is one of the reasons that Marnita has managed to survive for so long. 


Defiler Magical Destruction Table 

Radius of destruction (yards), by terrain type and spell level 


Terrain Type 

1 

2 

3 4 

Spell Leve 

5 

1 

6 

7 

8 

9 

The Last Sea 

1 

1 

1 2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

Saragar 

3 

4 

4 5 

5 

5 

5 

6 

6 

Shore 

2 

2 

2 3 

3 

3 

4 

4 

4 

Forest 

1 

1 

2 2 

2 

2 

2 

3 

3 

Mountains 

10 

14 

17 20 

22 

24 

26 

28 

31 

Other 

Whenever a 

Consequences 

magical spell is cast within the 

Border of 

Guardians, 

there 

is a 

chance 


that the Mind Lords will sense this and send a patrol of lawkeepers to investigate the 
situation. 

For each level of the spell being cast, there is a 10% chance that the Mind Lords 
will detect its use. This chance is doubled if defiling magic is being used. The Mind 
Lords are particularly sensitive to the disturbances that such things cause in the fragile 
ecosystem that they have worked so hard to maintain all of their extremely long lives. 

If the Mind Lords detect a spell being used, they will send a group of lawkeepers 
to investigate the situation. They will always send at least two lawkeepers for each 
level of the spell cast. In the case of defiling magic, this number is doubled. 

If the spell caster is a cleric or druid, the lawkeepers will do nothing, as long as 
the offenders remain outside of the city of Saragar. The Mind Lords recognize the 
usefulness of such people, as they are firmly attuned to the land to which the Mind 
Lords are dedicated to protect. Still, the Mind Lords are uncomfortable having any 
magic at all in use inside the city. (Keep in mind, the lawkeepers don't make the 
rules, they just enforce them.) 

If the spell caster is a wizard, the lawkeepers will certainly be a bit more hos 
tile. They know what wizards as a group have done to the outside world, and if 
they are a bit overzealous in their defense of their sacred environs, can anyone 
really blame them? 

The lawkeepers really don't care too much about the fine difference between pre 
servers and defilers. Their letter of the law requires them to escort such people to the 
borders or the Mind Lords' realm, no matter what sort of reason they may have had 
for casting such a spell. 

If the spellcaster offers any sort of resistance (like even, for instance, saying "Hey, 
wait!") then the lawkeepers are authorized to use lethal force to deal with the out- 


72 




lander and anyone who might be accompanying him or who is associated with him 
in any way. 

If the first patrol of lawkeepers is somehow defeated or eluded, they will be sup 
plemented by a force at least twice the size of the original. If this second force also 
fails to deal with the outlanders, one of the Mind Lords (likely Kosveret) will become 
personally involved in hunting the spell caster down and eliminating him. If this 
intervention somehow fails as well, all three Mind Lords will pitch in to ensure the 
spell caster leaves the valley of the Last Sea in one of two ways: on the run or in a 
heap of ashes spread on the wind. 


New Equipment 

Most voyages made on and around the Last Sea are done by boat. No real roads link 
the villages along the coast together, and there is rarely any need for anyone to travel 
outside of the region. For these reasons, seagoing vessels are an important part of life 
on Marnita. 

The type of ships found on the Last Sea are different than those found in a typical 
AD&D(r) setting. They are listed on the table below. Each is then described in full 
thereafter. 


Last Sea Ship Types 


Ship 

Base Move/Hour 

Emergency Move 

Seaworthiness* 

Price 

Surfboard 

1 

9 

25% 

15 gp 

Raft 

2/1 

5 

30% 

20 gp 

Sailboard 

4/1 

9 

35% 

30 gp 

Kayak 

2 

3 

40% 

30 gp 

Rowboat 

2 

3 

40% 

25 gp 

Barge 

1 

2 

50% 

5,000 gp 

Sloop 

4/2 

12 

60% 

2,000 gp 

Yacht 

5/2 

13 

70% 

5,000 gp 

Corsair 

6/2 

14 

75% 

7,000 gp 


*See Chapter 14 of the DMG. 

Note that if a surfboard, sailboard, raft, or kayak fails its seaworthiness test, the rider 
is dumped into the ocean, no matter how good he is at riding his chosen kind of 
board. Usually this means that the board, raft, or kayak was simply swamped. The 
character can get right back on (or in) and try it again. 

Surfboard 

A surfboard is a lightweight slab of polished wood about 6 to 9 feet in length. It is 
tapered at the front to make it easier to cut across waves, and it often has a small keel 
(or even two) under the rear side of the board to aid in the rider balancing the craft. 

The main problem with a surfboard is that it is meant more for sport than for 
transportation. It can only carry one person at a time (unless being used as a 
makeshift raft), and the only way a person can make any real speed on it is by riding 
the surf. This generally makes it useless for long journeys, as the surf is obviously 
always pushing the board toward the shore. 

To use a surfboard, the surfer must have the surfing nonweapon proficiency. 
Otherwise, the rider will certainly be dumped (make a seaworthiness roll every 
round the character is attempting to surf). 

Raft 

A raft is little more than a bunch of logs or planks of wood strapped together to form 
a floating platform. Rafts aren't very seaworthy, and they are disdained by proper 
sailors. Still, they are cheap, and are an easy way to get around the coast. Some rafts 
have sails. Other are simply pushed along by poles. Either way, they are not built for 
speed, but with a little luck, they will get you where it is you would like to be going. 


73 


Sailboard 

A sailboard is basically a surfboard with a mast in the middle of it. The mast is 
attached to the board by a ball-and-socket hinge that allows the mast a great deal of 

play. The mast hoists a sail about 8 to 10 feet tall with a handle that runs along both 

sides of it. 

Again, a sailboard is more useful for sport than transportation, but it is a bit more 
useful than a surfboard. But using one is strenuous. After each hour of sailboarding, 
the rider must make a Constitution check. If this is failed, the rider temporarily loses 
an amount of Strength equal to the number by which the roll was missed. When 
adjusted Strength reaches 0 or less, the rider is in serious distress, as he is too 
exhausted to ride the board any longer, although he can still drift along floating atop 
it. The rider's Strength returns at the rate of 1 point every hour of rest. 

If the Constitution check is passed, the rider still loses 1 point of Constitution 
each hour, and the check must be made again after each hour of sailboarding (also 

known as windsurfing). The lost Constitution returns at the rate of 1 point per hour 

of rest, as well. 

To use a sailboard, the rider must have the sailboarding nonweapon proficiency. 
Otherwise, the rider will certainly be dumped (make a seaworthiness roll every 
round the character attempts to ride the sailboard). 

Kayak 

A kayak is a small one- or two-person craft. Only about 8 to 10 feet long, it is pow 
ered exclusively by the rowing power of the people sitting in it. Kayakers use special 
paddles with a paddle blade on each side of the shaft to make it easy for paddlers to 
switch sides quickly and efficiently. 

Rowboat 

A rowboat is a common sight on the Last Sea, as it is an easy way to get around, and 
all sorts of sailors use such boats to get from shore to their ship, anchored in deeper 
seas. Rowboats range anywhere from 8 to 12 feet long, and they are rowed by one or 
two people, depending on their size. Rowboat oars fit into special locks on the side of 
the craft, allowing for easy leverage on the oars, resulting in relatively speedy travel. 

Barge 

Barges are a means by which large amounts of goods are shipped throughout the 
entire Last Sea region. They are slow, but they can carry phenomenal loads of cargo, 
up to 4,000 pounds. Barges range in size from 25 to 40 feet. They can be brought 
across the sea by sails on two masts, in which case they are crewed by at least 6 
sailors. Otherwise, they are generally poled along the shoreline by crews of 10 sea 
men or more. 

Sloop 

A sloop is a small, single-masted sailing ship about 30 feet long and 10 feet or less 
in width. It is most often used to travel up and down Marnita's coastline, but it is 
capable of making journeys directly across the sea as well. The crew of a sloop usu 
ally consists of four people, but the craft can be handled by as few as two without 
any loss of speed. 

Yacht 

A yacht is a fast, medium-sized, double-masted sailing ship about 70 feet long and 
20 feet wide. It's capable of sliding up and down the coast at good speeds and cut 
ting across Marnita at its widest points. The crew usually consists of about 8 people. 


74 


Corsair 


A corsair is a large, speedy, triple-masted sailing ship about 120 feet long and 35 
feet wide. This kind of ship is the king of the Last Sea. Nothing can beat it for speed 
and seaworthiness. The crew of a corsair is usually comprised of about 15 well- 
trained sailors. 


Appendix: 
Random Encounter Tables 


These random encounter tables are for use in and around the Last Sea. Besides 
typical Athasian creatures, they list several creatures from the Monstrous Manual(tm) 
which are not found in any other part of Athas. But to Athasian adventurers, even a 
large fish would appear strange and horrific. Also listed here are creatures from the 
new Dark Sun boxed set, the Terrors of the Desert Monstrous Compendium 
Appendix, and the Terrors Beyond Tyr Monstrous Compendium Appendix II. 


The Lonely Butte 


1d12 

Result 

1 

Storm giant 

2 

Elf 

3 

Human 

4 

Dwarf 

5 

Gorilla 

6 

Urchin 

7 

Esperweed 

8 

Dew fronds 

9 

Strangling vines 

10 

Spirit of the land 

11 

Zombie plant 

12 

Crocodile 

13 

Banderlog 

14 

Bhaergala 

15 

Jaguar 

16 

Jackal 

17 

Warthog 

18 

Badger 

19 

Porcupine 

20 

Wolverine 


Saragar 


1d12 

Result 

1 

Elf 

2 

Human 

3 

Dwarf 

4 

Proctor 

5 

Lawkeeper 

6 

Rat 

7 

Pyreen 

8 

Halfling 

9 

Thri-kreen 

10 

Half-elf 

11 

Mul 

12 

Pterran 


The Shores 

1 dl 2 Result 

1 Elf 

2 Human 

3 Dwarf 

4 Skyfish 

5 Large scorpion 

6 Athasian dolphin 

7 Kreel 

8 Water Drake 

9 Horse 

10 Quickwood 

11 Constrictor snake 

12 Phase spider 


Thunder Mountains 

1d12 Result 

1 Elf 

2 Human 

3 Mountain Giant 

4 Roc 

5 Rain Drake 

6 Dwarf 

7 Common bat 

8 Vulture 

9 Hippogriff 

10 Skyfish 

11 Wild mul 

12 Mountain spider 

The Last Sea 

1 dl 2 Result 

1 Dragon turtle 

2 Kelpie 

3 Strangleweed 

4 Sea Lion 

5 Athasian dolphin 

6 Puddingfish 

7 Skyfish 

8 Kreel 

9 Athasian shark 

10 Athasian lizard man 

11 Tako 

12 Squark 

13 Dragonfish 

14 Electric eel 

15 Lamprey 

16 Manta ray 

17 Sting ray 

18 Giant seahorse 

19 Common whale 

20 Killer whale 


75 


Barani 



Psionic Devotions: danger sense, probabili 
ty manipulation, see magic, watcher's 
ward, sensitivity to observation, psionic 
sense, stasis field, control body, animate 
object, deflect, levitation, chameleon 
power, double pain, enhancement, pheromone discharge, prolong, suspend anima 
tion, blink, dimension walk, phase, teleport trigger, time shift, wrench, awe, con 
ceal thoughts, inflict pain, mind bar, psychic drain, psychic impersonation, recepta 
cle, pocket dimension, send thoughts, ESP. 


Mind Lord of the Last Sea 

Female Human Psionicist, Neutral Evil 


Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Level: 

Hit POINTS: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
MAC: 

MTHACO: 

PSPs: 

Psionic Attacks: 
Psionic Defenses: 


n/a 

Str: 

12 

Dex: 

28 

Con: 

78 

Int: 

7 

Wis: 

0 

Cha: 

1 


-7 


298 


All 


All 



Psionic Sciences: Complete healing, cos 
mic awareness, energy containment, hallu 
cination, mass domination, megakinesis, 
precognition, psychic surgery, regenerate, 
suppress magic, telekinetic barrier, teleport, 
time travel, true sight. 


Barani is one of the three Mind Lords of the Last Sea. Like her two compatriots, she 
has placed her psyche into an obsidian orb held in a secret chamber buried deep 
beneath Saragar's castle, ensuring herself a sort of immortality. The visage that she 
presents to her people is that of a beautiful woman perpetually in her mid-thirties, 
with long black hair and flashing green eyes, but this is simply a mental projection 
from her orb. This projection is no more substantial than the wind, but by combin 
ing it with some expert telekinesis, Barani has been able to maintain for centuries 
the illusion that she is actually alive. 

As one of the Mind Lords, Barani is worshipped as a deity by the people of the 
Last Sea. To those citizens, she is the great mother, the goddess of life. She watches 
over them all from birth to death and helps them through times of sickness. 

Barani is over 9,000 years old. When she was a young lass studying at the 
Psionic Academy of Saragar, she met and fell in love with one of her professors, a 
man named Thesik, himself one of the most powerful psionicists ever to exist. 

Thesik taught Barani well and came to rely upon her as one of his closest compan 
ions. Eventually he was to show her the way to immortality, as a self-appointed 
guardian of the Last Sea and its people. Barani gladly accepted the responsibilities 
Thesik thrust upon her. 

These two, along with their friend, the elf Kosveret, became the high advisors to 
Lawmaker Mareet of Saragar. While working in the lawmaker's employ, Barani, sup 
ported by her two friends, made a psionic journey several millennia into the future, 
searching for the cause of the lawmaker's strange vision concerning a dark time to 
come upon the world. During her journey, Barani saw the ending of Athas's Green 
Age and the coming of the Age of the Sorcerer-Kings. She saw the drying up of the 
world's oceans and the destruction of nearly all life on the planet. And all of this 


76 


was to come about due to the ravaging effects of misused magic. 

The experience nearly drove her mad. 

When she returned, she related to Thesik and Kosveret what she had seen. At 
first, they doubted her. To prove it to themselves, they duplicated her journey into 
the future-and learned that everything she had said was true. When they returned, 
they formulated a plan of action: By barring magic from their homeland, and by 
making themselves its immortal guardians, they would preserve the region forever! 

Role-Playing 

Barani's mood changes with like wind, a result of the insanity that holds each of the 
Mind Lords in its grasp. One moment, she is terrible as a force of nature; the next 
she is as comforting and compassionate as a mother with her newborn child. 

When acting in her role as queen of the region's three "gods," Barani is haughty 
and imperious, a cold, aloof beauty. She plays the role of royalty to the hilt. During 
these times, she is found almost exclusively in the throne room of Saragar's palace. 

When pressed into the role of the mother goddess, Barani suddenly transforms 
into a personality of sweetness and light. She becomes warm, friendly and talkative, 
willing to do anything to help those in need. At these times, if she is not out and 

about in the city or surrounding countryside helping someone in pain, she can usu 

ally be found in the palace garden, braiding flowers into her hair and languishing 
on the lawn. 

"Queen" Barani has long since fallen out of love with Thesik. She scorns any of 
his attempts at a reconciliation with a fury that could only have grown over multi 
ple millennia of psychic imprisonment. When she is with him, it is obvious that she 

has little or no respect for his opinions any longer, and she will often contradict 

him out of simple spite. 

As "mother goddess," on the other hand, Barani has nothing but affection for her 
ancient groom. When with him, she laughs and frolics playfully, although she is 
sometimes confused by the fact that he often distances himself from her. She typi 
cally tells herself that this is simply a phase Thesik is going through, blissfully 
unaware that this "phase" of his has already lasted several centuries. 

Combat 

There is very little chance that an attacker will never be able to actually engage 
Barani herself in combat. After all, the orb in which her consciousness resides is 
extremely well protected. And those who battle her projected image are in for a 
real surprise. 

When attacked, no matter which personality she might be in at the time, Barani 
immediately switches to her "ice queen" persona. Although enraged at the attack, 
she will do anything in her power to ensure that the fiction of her physical presence 
is not dispelled. She will deflect or dodge physical attacks, choosing to engage her 
attackers exclusively in psionic combat. Should someone somehow manage to 
actually strike her a blow, it will, of course, pass directly through her image. To 
cover for the fact that she is really not there, she will laugh loudly and taunt her 
attackers with the claim that she has the power to phase into an insubstantial form, 
making it impossible for them to physically harm her. Barani then challenges them 
to meet her on the battlefield of the mind, and if they refuse, she presses the attack 
herself. She prefers to use a mind thrust at close range, but she is equally adept 
with other psionic combat tactics. Because of her long practice with maintaining 
her illusory self, all ranges should be calculated from her image rather than the orb 
in which her psyche resides. 

If outmatched, Barani will use her supposed "phase" ability to "walk through 
walls" to make her escape. In particularly dire straits, she will simply deactivate her 
image, making it appear as if she has teleported away. 


77 


Dolphin, Athasian 


Climate/Terrain: 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 
Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 


Magic Resistance: 
Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 

Psionics Summary: 

Player's Option: 


The Last Sea 
Uncommon 
School 
Any 

Carnivore 
Very (11-12) 

Nil 

Any good 
1-10 
4 

Sw 30 
3+3 
18 
1 

1-10 

Nil 

Save as a 5th- 
level fighter, 
psionic abilities 
Nil 

M (5'-6' long) 
Elite (13) 

270 

Random Wild 
Talent 

MAC 7 



Just as on other worlds, dolphins on Athas are intelligent, seagoing mammals. But 
Athasian dolphins, however, do have a few unique differences. 

For one thing, the skin of an Athasian dolphin is thicker than usual for other dol 
phins, and it is entirely silvery white. The sun reflects brilliantly off of its surface, 
keeping the dolphins cool during even the height of the day's heat. Few sights are 
more beautiful on Athas-or more rare-than a pod (school) of dolphins racing along 
the surface of Marnita, arching in and out of the water in sparkling brilliance. 

Also, the nose of an Athasian dolphin is a bit thicker and harder than that of a 
normal dolphin. This is a result of the species' constant war with Athasian sharks as 
they have evolved down through the millennia. A nose punch from an Athasian dol 
phin is something that few creatures can attempt to laugh off. 

Other than these differences, however, Athasian dolphins are nearly identical to 
any others. Their bodies are long, compact, and muscular. They have a large dorsal 
fin, a powerful tail, and a blowhole atop their heads. When near to one another, 
Athasian dolphins communicate via a series of high-pitched squeals, some of which 
are beyond the upper range of human hearing. When further apart, the dolphins use 
their innate telepathy to keep in constant contact. 

Combat: While innately peaceful by nature, Athasian dolphins have grown to be 
more warlike than their ancestors, as a result of their ongoing war with Marnita's 
native shark population. They generally attack only when threatened, but unless they 
are outnumbered at least two to one, dolphins will always attack sharks. Dolphins 
fight as an organized unit, taking commands telepathically from a leader of their 
group. They are especially ferocious when protecting their young, doing anything 
necessary-even sacrificing their own lives-to ensure their safety. 

In addition to their telepathic powers, all dolphins are psionic wild talents. They 
simply don't have the discipline to study the Way and become full psionicists, but 
they are more than happy to use their natural mental abilities to fight for their pod. 

Habitat/Society: There is only a single species of dolphin found on Athas, and its 
members reside only in Marnita, the only remaining body of salt water in the world. 


78 



At one time, during the Blue and even the Green Ages, dolphins populated a good 
part of the planet. They were friendly to the halflings during their rule, even going so 
far as to enter joint ventures with them to construct incredible underwater structures, 
complete with air supplies, which they could use as shelter in times of storms. 

They communicated with the halflings through a form of animal telepathy which 
all dolphins had. In this way, the halflings were able to learn a great deal about the 
dolphins and their amazing aquatic culture. Sadly, this knowledge has largely been 
lost throughout the ages. 

During the Green Age, the dolphins were appalled at the damage that had been 
done to their precious ocean. They began to distance themselves from other sentient 
creatures, whom they blamed for the despoilment of their shared environment. Over 
the millennia, most of these races lost all communication with the dolphins. Only 
the lizard men, with whom the dolphins shared a great deal of their habitat, have 
remained in communication with the creatures. 

At the end of the Green Age, nearly all dolphins on Athas were destroyed as their 
watery homes dried up, leaving their bodies to bake unprotected in the sun. The 
only exception to this tragic rule was the pod of dolphins still living in the Last Sea. 

For many centuries after the region of Marnita was closed off from the outside 
world, the Last Sea dolphins had kept in regular contact via telepathy with their 
brethren in other parts of the planet. It was a dark day for the surviving dolphins 
when the last of their unprotected siblings beached itself in dismay on a not-too-dis- 
tant mud flat, in what was eventually to become the Silt Sea. 

Since then, the Athasians dolphins have vowed to carry on the great oral traditions 
of their people and act as a living legacy to those who have gone before them. 
Because the dolphins can communicate telepathically, they can transmit memories 
to their progeny down through the ages. Even the youngest member of the Last Sea 
pod remembers the days of the Blue Age and the times when the seas covered the 
face of Athas and dolphins filled the waters like the stars in the sky. 

Ecology: Athasian dolphins are both hunters and hunted. In the relative safety of 
Marnita, their most typical foes are the Athasian sharks with which they share the 
water. The ongoing conflict between the dolphins and the sharks has only rarely bro 
ken into all-out war. Most times it only involves clashes between small patrols that 
run into each other more by happenstance than design. 

Despite this and any other predators in Marnita (like the squark), the dolphin pop 
ulation thrives there. Although they generally refuse to communicate with the people 
living on the shores of the Last Sea, they have managed to strike up an implicit treaty 
of nonaggression with them. They are not hunted by the humanoids, and in 
exchange, people somehow stranded in the middle of the sea can count on assis 
tance from a friendly patrol of dolphins that will carry them back to the shore-if 
they're lucky enough to get there before the sharks do, of course. 

The dolphins cooperate a bit more readily with the lizard men population, 
although they only rarely talk to them about anything more than coordinating their 
defense efforts against the sharks. Still, upon a rare occasion, lizard men have even 
been seen riding on the backs of a group of dolphins, in order to travel quickly to a 
distant shore of the Last Sea. The relationship between these two races is based on 
mutual respect, though, and the lizard men are careful not to abuse this privilege by 
using it overmuch. 

A few human fishers have managed to strike up a friendship with these creatures, 
despite the fact that the dolphins refuse to communicate with them telepathically in 
any but the direst of times. Such rare people realize fully how lucky they are. 


79 


Giant, Crag 


Climate/Terrain: 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 
Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 
Magic Resistance: 
SIZE: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 

Psionics Summary: 
Player's Option: 


The Lonely Butte 

Uncommon 

Clan 

Day 

Omnivore 
Low (5-7) 

K (H) 

Chaotic good 
5-10 (1d6+4) 

5 

15 

16 

6 


2d6+8 
Hurl rocks 
Nil 
Nil 

H (25' tall) 
Elite (13) 
7,000 
Nil 

MAC 10 


Crag giants are 25-foot-tall humanoids with thick black hair, rugged human features, 
and skin color ranging from dusky gray to stony brown. Also sometimes called the 
Lonely Giants, these sad creatures are the only remnants of a once proud race, forced 
to flee their homelands and dwell in an environment that is assuredly leading to their 
ultimate extinction. Like other Athasian giants, the crag giants are savage in nature, 
though not as much so as the beasthead variety. The majority of crag giants are of chaot 
ic good alignment, though other chaotic alignments are not unusual among them. 

Crag giants speak their own language among themselves, but virtually all of them 
also use an archaic version of the common tongue. 

Combat: Crag giants have a Strength score of 24, which provides them with a damage 
bonus of +8. In melee combat, they use jagged stone daggers, which inflict 2d6 points of 
damage. At range, they can hurl rocks at their opponents, with a range of up to 250 yards, 
inflicting 2d10 points of damage. A significant proportion of these giants are clerics 
aligned to the element of air, which explains their legendary status as tossers of lightning. 

Habitat/Society: In millennia past, the ancestors of the modern crag giants originally 
inhabited the Thunder Mountains. According to ancient legend, when storms would 
rock those ranges, the crag giants would come out to dance in the thunder and play 
catch with the flashes of lightning. They lived with a savage joy for life. 

But when Saragar's Mind Lords began reshaping the region to cut it off from the rest 
of Athas, in order to protect the Last Sea from the ravages of rampant magic, they pre 
sented the crag giants with a difficult choice: relocate their people to a reservation on 
the Lonely Butte, or be utterly destroyed. 

Faced with the raw power of the Mind Lords, the crag giants chose to move, but 
their race has not taken well to their new home. Slowly but steadily, their numbers are 
declining, and they are headed for certain extinction. The one motivation for survival 
that remains to them is to gain vengeance on the Mind Lords. 

Ecology: The jungle atop the Lonely Butte serves as an excellent source of food-both 
plant and animal-for the crag giants, and these creatures supplement that diet with 
some sea food. Despite this plenty, however, the race is dying out, still feeling displaced 
from their native mountains even after millennia of dwelling on the Lonely Butte. 


80 


Guardian 


Disembodied Psionicist, Chaotic Neutral 


Armor Class: n/a 

Movement: 0 

Level: 10 

Hit Points: 50 

THACO: n/a 

No. of Attacks: 0 

MAC: 5 

MTHACO: 12 

PSPs: 133 

Psionic Attacks: All 

Psionic Defenses: All 


Psionic Sciences: Vary, but 
can include death field (or dis 
integrate), hallucination, 
mass domination, megakine 
sis, teleport other. 



Str: 0 

Dex: 0 

Con: 18 

Int: 18 

Wis: 18 


Psionic Devotions: Vary, but 
can include amnesia, animate 
object, control light, control 
wind, create sound, double 
pain, ESP, inflict pain, molecu 
lar agitation, phobia amplifica 
tion, psionic vampirism, psychic impersonation, return flight, teleport object, truthhear. 


The guardians of the Last Sea are the working cogs in the societal machine that the 
Mind Lords have designed for themselves and their people. Once human, these dis 
embodied minds are the source of nearly all working energy in the area, particularly 
in the city of Saragar. The guardians perform all sorts of tasks, from lighting the city 
streets at night, to motivating the driverless carriages that move people about in the 
city, to powering the day-to-day operations of the vital desalinization plant that sup 
plies the 30,000 residents of the Saragar with precious drinking water. 

All guardians were originally gifted psionicists in the Green Age. During their 
mortal lives, they each, for one reason or another, were imprisoned in an obsidian 
orb and charged with specific tasks by the Mind Lords of the Last Sea. Many were 
outlaws who had committed some horrible crime against their fellow humanoids. 

But some were good people, innocents arbitrarily recruited by the Mind Lords to fill 
needed positions in the city of Saragar or the legendary Border of the Guardians. 

Role-Playing 

Guardians have little or no personality remaining to speak of-except for those who 
have gone mad from their long, incorporeal incarceration. There is a 10% chance 
that any given guardian encountered has gone insane. Those who have are usually 
paranoid maniacs, incapable of performing their set duties and only randomly con 
fronting anyone that crosses their path, but then usually with deadly psionic force. 

Combat 

When threatened, or when required to by its orders, a guardian will attack with its 
psionic powers. If there are many opponents, the guardian will usually use mass 
effect sciences or devotions like death field or awe. Otherwise, the guardian will use 
its psionic attacks more directly. Most guardians are aware that they are limited by 
their inability to move (and thus have real problems with foes retreating out of attack 
range), so they will strike as savagely as they can, intending to incapacitate foes 
before they have any chance to react. 




Kosveret 


Mind Lord of the Last Sea 
Male Elf Psionicist, Chaotic Evil 


Armor Class: 

n/a 

Str: 

Movement: 

12 

Dex: 

Level: 

27 

Con: 

Hit Points: 

72 

Int: 

THACO: 

7 

Wis: 

No. of Attacks: 

0 

Cha: 

MAC: 

3 


MTHACO: 

-6 


PSPs: 

227 


Psionic Attacks: 

All 


Psionic Defenses: 

All 



Psionic Sciences: Complete healing, create 
object, mass domination, megakinesis, metamorphosis, 
molecular rearrangement, probability travel, psychic 
clone, subjective reality, superior invisibility, suppress, 
magic, teleport, teleport other, time travel. 

Psionic Devotions: All-round vision, amnesia, animate 
object, attraction, aversion, awe, blink, cause decay, 
cause sleep, chameleon power, control flames, control 
sound, danger sense, deflect, displacement, ESP, ghost 
writing, heightened senses, impossible task, invisibili 
ty, know location, phase, pheromone discharge, 
pocket dimension, probability manipulation, psychic 
impersonation, receptacle, see magic, send thoughts, 
static discharge, summon object, time dilation, 
time/space anchor. 

Kosveret is one of the three Mind Lords of the Last Sea. As with his two compatriots, 
his psyche has been placed into an obsidian orb, held in a secret chamber buried 
deep beneath Saragar's castle, ensuring his effective immortality. The image that he 
presents to the people of the Last Sea is that of a jolly elf in the prime of his life. His 
hair is long and blond and worn free and wild. This projection is no more substantial 
than the wind, but by combining it with some expert telekinesis, Thesik has been 
able for centuries to maintain the illusion that he is actually alive. 

Unlike most elves elsewhere on Athas, Kosveret presents a personality that reflects 
a happier age, when his people were not nomads on the land but instead were set 
tled in one spot, like the elves who dwell on the shores of Marnita. (He looks more 
like a regular elf than like an Athasian). 

Thesik is worshipped by his people as the god of happiness, the trickster, the one 
who stands between life and death and gives each some kind of meaning. He is well 
known for his practical jokes and his sense of humor. 

Kosveret's appearance actually changes regularly to suit his needs. If it suits him 
better to appear in disguise as a dwarf maid, so be it. His disguises are so perfect, 
though, that it's nearly impossible to recognize him when he is around. In the valley 
of the Last Sea, it is not uncommon then for a person who begins to act strangely or 
perform odd feats to claim that Kosveret must have taken his place. Sometimes this 
is true, and other times not. When not, it offers the people an excellent excuse for 
blowing off some steam from time to time. But when a well known barkeep punches 
someone on the nose and then goes sailing up through the ceiling, it is fairly certain 
that Kosveret has just left the room. 

Unfortunately, the trickster's mind is degenerating, and occasionally he loses track 
of what is real and what is not. In the worst of his paranoid delusions, he imagines 



82 









that the Sorcerer-Kings have finally put aside their differences and are preparing a 
mass assault on the Last Sea, desperate to tap its green lands to feed their horrible 
magic. At such times, it is impossible to convince Kosveret of anything to the con 
trary, despite the fact that the few remaining Sorcerer-Kings are more in disarray now 
than ever before. 

Kosveret is extremely suspicious of any outsiders, but he occasionally confuses 
people he has just met with people he has known since their birth. This has ended in 
some uncomfortable situations from which Thesik and Barani have been forced to 
extricate him. Sometimes he kills people at random, and it is up to his fellow Mind 
Lords and Saragar's lawkeepers to hush the matter up. After all, if the general popu 
lace was to learn that one of their gods was some kind of part-time, haphazard serial 
killer, the ensuing panic would devastate this last bastion of Green Age fertility. 

Kosveret originally met Thesik, the chief of the Mind Lords, when they were both 
professors at the Psionic Academy of Saragar. There they struck up a fast friendship 
which has lasted until this day, although not without some strain. Today, Kosveret 
sometimes even imagines that Thesik is secretly in league with the Sorcerer-Kings in 
their bid for ultimate power. 

Back in their early days, though, Kosveret and Thesik, along with Thesik's new 
wife Barani, managed to pierce the veil of time and peer into the future, seeking the 
answer to an enigmatic warning from ages to come. What they saw there was fright 
ening enough for them to launch into action a desperate plan to preserve Marnita 
from the coming devastation of Athas, a plan that ultimately called for them to sacri 
fice their physical shells and imprison their psyches in obsidian orbs, so that they 
might survive forever as Marnita's guardians. 

Role-Playing 

Kosveret is flat-out insane. He has a few lucid moments, but they are becoming 
fewer and farther between. When encountered, there is a 40% chance he is effec 
tively himself. Otherwise, he could be pretending to be just about anyone else. 

When Kosveret is acting the part of someone else, he acts as sanely as they 
would, at least until he does something to give himself away, which inevitably hap 
pens within a half dozen hours or so. Until then, he looks and acts just like the per 
son (or creature-he has been known to go around as a duck frequently) he is imper 
sonating. Since he is not actually that person, though, he eventually makes a mistake 
that someone calls to his attention. When that happens, he snaps. 

When that happens, the results vary. Sometimes he dances around the room until 
he trips and falls through the floor. At other times, he reveals himself for who he 
really is, tells a mad little tale, and disappears in a cloud of smoke, or some such 
thing. On some rare occasions, he decides that the person who has found him out is 
in league with the Sorcerer-Kings. If so, the innocent pawn in this mad elf's fantasy 
will be lucky to escape with his life. 

When grounded in reality, Kosveret is a kind and generous elf, and no one can 
say a bad thing about him (they had better not-he is dangerous!). 

One secret that Kosveret keeps strictly to himself is that he once had an affair with 
Barani, long ago, while posing as his friend Thesik. Not even Barani knows the truth 
of the matter, and it could be that guilt, combined with his never-ending fixation 
upon her, which has precipitated his madness. 

Combat 

Kosveret rarely sticks around for a fight. He hits his opponent once or twice with a 
generally fatal mental power (calculate ranges from his image, not his orb) and then 
disappears. This strategy has worked fine for him so far, but it is difficult to imagine 
what might happen if it someday fails. Sometimes he has been known instead to 
simply kiss his foes on the lips before vanishing. 

When pressed by a powerful opponent, Kosveret simply beats a hasty retreat. He 
hasn't managed to grow old as he is by fighting foes on their own terms. Since he is 
really just an intangible image, physical attacks can't hurt him, and against a psioni- 
cist of his power, most mental barrages are pointless as well. If someone manages to 
get his back against a wall, though, Kosveret will simply deactivate his image and 
hole up in his obsidian orb until he recovers. 


83 


Kreel 


Climate/Terrain: 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Dam age/Attack: 
Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 
Magic Resistance: 
Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 

Psionics Summary: 
Player's Option: 


The Last Sea 
Uncommon 
School 
Day 

Herbivore 
Animal (1) 
Nil 


Neutral 

2-20 (11-4 in 7 th< 
7 

Sw 12 


65 

Nil 

10 


3 

18 


M (4'-6' long) 
Unsteady (7) 


1-6 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 



Kreel are large domesticated eels that 
lizard men use both as a source of food and as 
beasts of burden. When mature, they range from four 
to six feet long, and can be up to one foot in diameter. 

Their coloration changes in a chameleonlike way to help camouflage them against 
their background. When near the surface of the sea, their backs turn blue-green and 
their bellies white. This helps to protect them from predators both above and below. 
When nearer the bottom of the sea, they become entirely dark. 

Combat: Kreel are peaceful creatures, and they will only fight to defend themselves. 
They are incapable of using group tactics to fend off predators, tending to rely upon 
their camouflaging abilities to hide from such creatures. 

When cornered, kreel will retaliate, but even then they will flee at the first oppor 
tunity. They often use their relative slimness to slip into places in the sea floor where 
predators cannot fit. A kreel caught by a shark in open waters, however, is an easy 
meal. 

Habitat/Society: While a few kreel can be found swimming wild in Marnita, most 
belong to flocks tended by pairs of lizard men kreelherders. These lizard men ensure 
that the flock is well fed on the kelp growing wild throughout the sea and that it is 
safe from any wandering predators. Long-time kreelherders carry the scars of many 
battles with sharks, and some even tell of seeing the legendary squark. 

Ecology: Down through the centuries, even rudimentary cunning has been bred out 
of the kreel. After all, sneaky creatures are difficult to care for. There is little doubt 
that, were the lizard men to abandon them, the kreel would be hunted to extinction 
by their natural enemies within a very short period of time. 

Kreel graze on wild kelp, easily available just about anywhere in Marnita. Their 
meat is tasty (at least to lizard men), and their hides are extremely useful in all sorts 
of ways. They are the basis of the lizard man culture in the Last Sea, for without 
them the reptilian humanoids would be forced to look elsewhere for a large portion 
of their meals. 


84 


Lawkeepers 

The Lawkeepers of Saragar 

Human, Dwarf, and Elf Psionicists, Lawful Neutral 


Str: 

Proctor 

13 

Lawkeeper 

14 

Lawkeeper Efkenu 

17 

Dex: 

10 

12 

15 

Con: 

12 

14 

16 

Int: 

14 

16 

18 

Wis: 

16 

18 

19 

Cha: 

10 

12 

16 

Armor Class: 

4 

4 

3 

Movement: 

12 

12 

12 

Level: 

3-10 

11 + 

12 F/13 Psi 

Hit Points: 

12-40 

40 + 

83 

THACO: 

per level 

per level 

9 

No. of Attacks: 

1 

1 

3/2 rounds 

MAC: 

9 

6 

4 

MTHACO: 

per level 

per level 

9 

PSPs: 

per level 

per level 

151 

Psionic Attacks: 

Vary 

All 

All 

Psionic Defenses: 

Vary 

All 

All 


The lawkeepers of Saragar follow the ancient tradition of the governments of the 
ancient cities long before the end of the Green Age. The head of the government is 
the lawmaker. In the case of modern Saragar, the Mind Lords share this position 
jointly. They create laws, ideally for the good of the people, and it is then up to the 
lawkeepers to ensure that these laws are enforced. 

Lawmakers dress in thin white, knee-length robes underneath which they wear 
well-wrought chain-mail tunics, the kind of which are almost unheard of anywhere 
else on Athas. They also carry metal long swords and wooden shields banded with 
metal. Any single set of these items might be worth a king's ransom outside of the val 
ley of the Last Sea, but here they are simply badges of office that all lawkeepers bear. 

The body of lawkeepers come in two ranks: the rank and file are known as proc 
tors; their leaders are simply called lawkeepers. Proctors are the men and women 
who patrol the streets of the city, always on the lookout for the slightest transgression 
against the law. The other lawkeepers are their superiors, and they deal only with the 
most serious of cases. They are often called in when proctors at the scene decide 
that they need help. Above all of these is Lawkeeper Efkenu, the de facto ruler of the 
city when the Mind Lords cannot be bothered to put in an appearance. 

Role-Playing 

All lawkeepers are lawful neutral in alignment. This means that they will uphold the 
letter of the Mind Lords' laws no matter what. They are obligated to do this even if 
the result flies in the face of common sense. It is not their job to determine what the 
laws should be. They are only enforce them. 

The lawkeepers serve as judge, jury, and occasionally executioner. There is no 
court of appeal, and every citizen of Saragar knows what it means to run afoul of the 
law. The lawkeepers' jurisdiction ends (for most practical purposes at least) outside 
of Saragar, although this hardly ever prevents them from pursuing a guilty party to 
the ends of the Last Sea if necessary. 

Saragar's laws apply to the lawkeepers as well. Any lawkeeper found to be delin 
quent in carrying out his duty in any way is brought up before a board of his peers, 
overseen by Lawkeeper Efkenu himself. If found guilty, the lawkeeper is put to death. 

Over the years, the lawkeepers have become a kind of priest to the people of 
Saragar. After all, it is they who have a direct channel to the gods. Consequently, the 
citizens of Saragar respect them out of both religious awe and basic fear. 


85 



Lawkeeper Efkenu 

Efkenu is an archetypal lawkeeper success story. He started out as a proctor soon 
after graduating from the Psionic Academy of Saragar. In his early years of service, 
he carved out a reputation for himself as having a flawless knowledge of the law, 
undiluted by any personal distractions of right or wrong. He climbed quickly up 
the ranks until he became the city's chief lawkeeper 12 years ago. 

Efkenu is a somber elf. It is rumored that he has never once smiled. He is good 
at his job, and he is proud of that fact. The law is the most sacred thing in the 
world to him, and he is only to happy to punish any that would dare desecrate it. 

As chief lawkeeper, Efkenu serves as something of a high priest of the Mind 
Lords. Only he is permitted direct communication with any of that trio. Everyone 
else must take his word for what the Mind Lords have said. They can be confident 
that he won't lie about the Mind Lords' words, however. To do so would be to 
invite the Mind Lords' retribution, and that is not a pleasant fate. 

Efkenu knows that the Mind Lords are insane, but he doesn't really care. There 
is little he can do to remedy the situation, so he simply carries out their wishes as 
best he can, trying to ensure that the city is ruled by order at all times. He fears 
that the Mind Lords may someday leave, and he worries about what he may have 
to do then to preserve the peace. But for now, his hands are full just maintaining 
the status quo. 



86 









Lizard Man, Athasian 


Climate/Terrain: 

Lizard Man 

The Last Sea 

Frequency: 

Rare 

Organization: 

Tribal 

Activity Cycle: 

Any 

Diet: 

Omnivore 

Intelligence: 

Average (8-10) 

Treasure: 

D 

Alignment: 

Neutral 

No. Appearing: 

8-15 (1d8+7) 

Armor Class: 

4 

Movement: 

6, Sw 12 

Hit Dice: 

2+1 

THACO: 

19 

No. of Attacks: 

1 

Damage/Attack: 

2-7 

Special Attacks: 

Nil 

Special Defenses: 

Nil 

Magic Resistance: 

Nil 

Size: 

M (7' tall) 

Morale: 

11 (Steady) 

XP Value: 

65 

Patrol leader 

65 

Subleader 

120 

War leader 

270 

Psionicist, 3rd 

175 

Psionicist, 5th 

650 

Psionicist, 7th 

975 

Player's Option: 

MAC 8 


Lizard King 

The Last Sea 
Very Rare 
Tribal 
Any 

Omnivore 
Very (12) 

E 

Neutral 

Unique 

3 

9, Sw 15 
8 
13 
1 

5-20 (3d6+2) 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 

L (8' tall) 

13 (Elite) 
975 


MAC 6 



Athasian lizard men are amphibious humanoids who 
survive by herding kreel and by fishing. Adults stand 
six to seven feet tall, weighing 200 to 250 pounds. 
The skin of the creatures is chameleonlike, chang 
ing color to permit the lizard men to blend in with 
their surroundings. It is composed of thin scales 
meshed closely together which provides protec 
tion while remaining flexible. 

The tail of a lizard man is 
three to four feet long, but 
not prehensile. It does help 
to keep the creature balanced 
when swimming, however. It is nearly impos 
sible to distinguish between the sexes with 
out a thorough inspection, something 
most lizard men (and women) are 
reluctant to let strangers attempt. 
Lizard man clothing 
usually consists of a 
simple kreelskin loincloth. 
Lizard men actually have a 
^ fair amount of control over 
their changing coloration. They 
can change their skin to match just about any 
color of the spectrum. Normally, they let their reflexes automatically cause them to 
blend into their environment, but during special ceremonies, they can actually will 
their skin to color itself in intricate patterns, each with a special symbolic meaning. 


87 



While these creatures have their own language, most of them (especially their 
king Nelyrox) have at least a rough command of the common tongue. This helps 
them negotiate in their infrequent encounters with those who dwell along the shores 
of the Last Sea. 

Combat: In combat, Athasian lizard men are ferocious fighters. They temper their 
bloodlust with cunning, however, and they are not ashamed to fall back from a fight 
they are losing, at least until reinforcements arrive. They are more intelligent than tradi 
tional lizard men, able to follow fairly complicated battle plans and intricate schemes. 

For every 10 lizard men encountered, one of them is a patrol leader with maxi 
mum hit points (17 hp). There is also a 50% chance that one of them is a 3rd-level 
psionicist. If more than one of the three Last Sea tribes is encountered, each tribe has 
a war leader with 6 Hit Dice, two subleaders with 4 Hit Dice and a 5th-level psioni 
cist, with a 50% chance of an additional 7th-level psionicist by the name of Mobji. 

If Nelyrox is present (50% chance), Mobji is automatically there, and the patrol lead 
ers form an elite body guard for their king. 

Habitat/Society: The lizard men of Athas are a bit more civilized than the typical sort. 
Although they didn't start out this way, circumstances have forced them to adapt. After 
all, the traditional lizard man meal of human flesh was frowned upon by the Mind 
Lords, so in Marnita, if the creatures couldn't find another source of food, they were 
doomed to extinction. As their hunting grounds were severely limited the Barrier of 
Guardians, they took the only option open to them and domesticated the local kreel, 
becoming a society of kreelherders. As such, its rare to see more than a dozen or so 
lizard men together at a time outside the lizard man city deep in the center of Marnita. 

Athasian lizard men are advanced enough to use shields and weapons. They tend 
to prefer tridents with wooden shafts and heads carved from three long bones. On 
more formal occasions, they wear full kreelskin togas, but these are rarely used on a 
daily basis, as they hamper underwater movement. 

Ecology: Athasian lizard men have few natural enemies. Sharks and dolphins alike 
tend to give them a wide berth, but it is not unheard of for a lone lizard man to be 
attacked and killed by a roaming school of sharks. The only true threat to lizard men 
in general is the squark, the behemoth with which they share the Last Sea. Once 
every so many years, on a more or less unpredictable basis, the squark attacks the 
lizard man city of Nesthaven. The walls of Nesthaven are strongly fortified against 
the creature, but they can only hold so long against its monstrous onslaught. Dozens 
of lizard men are killed each time the monster attacks. 

Other than that, though, the lizard men generally live fairly sedate lives. They farm 
the kelp beds and tend their flocks of kreel and have wonderful underwater festivals. 
These are sometimes so amazing that the lights under the waves can be seen even in 
distant Saragar. 

The lizard men have a great deal of respect for the Mind Lords and their children 
(as the lizard men think of the shore dwellers). After all, the Mind Lords saved them 
from hated Keltis, the lizard-man executioner. Without their help, the people (as they 
call themselves) would sure have been scoured from even the floor of Marnita. 

The Lizard King 

Nelyrox the lizard king is a wise and generous ruler, and he has the full support of 
the vast majority of his people. Those under the command of Xhenrid, one of 
Nelyrox's three war leaders, are more loyal to their leader than their king, but the 
royal reptilian has managed to keep his old rival and her people in line so far. 

Nelyrox stands a full eight feet tall and weighs over 250 pounds. In battle, he 
arms himself with a great trident which inflicts 3d6+2 points of damage. If the attack 
roll is 5 or more greater than the score needed to hit the target, Nelyrox's attack 
scores double damage (with a minimum of 15 points inflicted). 

As a leader of a civilized people, no Athasian lizard king has demanded a sacrifice 
of a sentient's flesh for centuries. In fact, the killing of sentients for any reason other 
than self-defense is held to be this society's most heinous crime. This is enforced by 
both the lizard man tribal government and by the lawkeepers from Saragar if need be. 


88 


Puddingfish 


> 



"l 

V- 


Climate/Terrain: 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 
Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 
Magic Resistance: 
Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 

Psionics Summary: 
Player's Option: 


The Last Sea 
Very rare 
Solitary 
Any 

Carnivore 
Animal (1) 

Nil 

Neutral 

1 

6 

Sw 3 
9 
11 

1 

3-24 
Paralysis 
See below 
Nil 

H (20+ long') 
Average (10) 
3,000 
Nil 

MAC 10 



The puddingfish is a gigantic sort of jel 
lyfish found only in Athas's Last Sea. It 
looks similar to a traditional jellyfish, only larger and slightly more substantial. Its 
dome is nearly eight feet across, and its tendrils drag down over 20 feet below it. 

The creature is composed of a blue-green substance somewhat similar to that of a 
gelatinous cube. Due to its coloring, the puddingfish can be difficult to spot floating 
along in the water, and more than one fishing boat has run aground on a pudding- 
fish's back. This is usually little more than an annoyance, however, as the creature is 
unable to lift its tendrils upward at all. As long as no one falls into the water, the 
occupants of the boat will be fine. 


Combat: When a small boat or raft runs into a puddingfish, each passenger near an 
edge should roll against his Dexterity to avoid falling into the sea. Those people 
unfortunate enough to end up in the drink next to a puddingfish had better swim 
away as fast as they can. The puddingfish is deadly when in contact with a victim, 
but it is slow to move and can be outdistanced by a strong swimmer. Of course, 
there are very few such people on Athas outside of the valley of the Last Sea. 

A character struck by a puddingfish's stinging tendrils must save vs. paralyzation 
or be paralyzed (anesthetized) for 4-16 (4d4) rounds. In the water, this can easily 
prove fatal unless the victim is fortunate enough to have a friend brave enough to 
haul his poisoned body out of the water. Once a victim has perished, the pudding- 
fish's snakelike tendrils draw the corpse up into its dome where it is slowly digested 
over a period of 3-6 (1d4+2) days. 

Habitat/Society: Puddingfish are solitary creatures. They are asexual and reproduce 
by dividing once they have reached a certain critical mass. They are hunted by the 
lizard men for their hides (which are not poisonous), out of which many useful 
things such as clothing and sails are made. 


Ecology: The dome of a puddingfish is actually its stomach, a place filled with horri 
bly corrosive acids. This material can actually be harvested by foolhardy adventurers 
willing to risk their lives to obtain such potentially useful materials. 


89 


Shark, Athasian 


Climate/Terrain: 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 
Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 
Magic Resistance: 
Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 

Psionics Summary: 
Player's Option: 


The Last Sea 
Uncommon 
School 
Any 

Carnivore 
Semi (4) 

Nil 

Any evil 
3-12 

4 

Sw 24 

5 

15 

1 

2-8 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

L (10+ long') 
Average (10) 
300 
Nil 

MAC 9 



Athasian sharks are similar to sharks of other worlds in many ways. They are large, 
cartilaginous, seagoing invertebrates that are basically cold-hearted eating machines. 
They are long and gray, and their mouths are filled with row after row of sharp, 
vicious teeth. The skin of an Athasian shark is fairly tough, and it is from this material 
that most lizard man shields are made. 


Combat: In a battle, sharks are deadly foes. They tend to hunt in packs, and a person 
floundering about in the water is usually easy prey. They are fast, striking like light 
ning, often hitting and darting away before the victim is even aware of what has hap 
pened. Because of this, up to 10 sharks can attack a man-sized opponent in a single 
round. 


Habitat/Society: Sharks tend to travel in packs for purposes of both hunting and 
safety. There is very little that can stand up to a school of hungry sharks in their ele 
ment. The one thing that poises a certain danger for them, though, is a dolphin. 

Make a morale check each time a group of sharks is outnumbered by dolphins. If the 
sharks fail, they immediately scatter and flee, leaving their wounded behind in their 
single-minded desire to escape the dolphins' wrath. 

Athasian sharks (of which only a single species remains) are brighter than other 
sharks, but this translates more into animal cunning than any raw intelligence. They 
have been in constant conflict with the Last Sea's dolphin population since the val 
ley's isolation nine millennia ago. Although they are bigger and stronger than their 
mammalian foes, they have no psionic abilities. Due mostly to this fact and their 
inability to formulate and stick to a decent battle plan, they have remained on the 
losing side of the majority of their battles with the dolphins. Occasionally they man 
age to victimize a lone dolphin, but rarely if ever are they able to sustain a serious 
attack against an entire pod. 

Ecology: Little matters to sharks except where their next meal is coming from. While 
their favorite meal is undoubtedly dolphin, they are the ultimate omnivores, willing 
to eat pretty much anything. They can smell blood in the sea from up to a mile away, 
and once they get its scent, they will pursue it until either they find the source or 
discover that it has somehow gotten away. 


90 


Skyfish 

Climate/Terrain: 

Frequency: 

Organization: 

Activity Cycle: 

Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 

Armor Class: 

Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 

Damage/Attack: 

Special Attacks: 

Special Defenses: 

Magic Resistance: 

Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 

Psionics Summary: 

Player's Option: 

A skyfish is a special kind of amphibious creature that has the ability to survive both 
far below and high above the waves of Marnita. These creatures look like silvery sea 
bass with large batlike wings covered with scales instead of feathers. Their mouths 
end not in a beak but a ferocious set of teeth suitable for picking up and rending the 
smaller fish off of which they typically live. 

The arches of the wings of a skyfish end in tiny claws which the animal can use to 
grip things while not using its wings for flying. When in the water, it folds these 
wings in close to itself so that it can swim with little resistance. To fly, a skyfish sim 
ply leaps out of the water and into the air and spreads its wings wide. 

Combat: Skyfish rarely hunt in packs, preferring to take after their prey on their own. 
They like to circle high above the waves until they spot a smaller fish swimming 
near the surface. Then they dart in and carry the creature into the air, holding it in 
their mouth until it dies in the open air. Then they take the creature back into the 
water where they can finish their meal. 

Skyfish will only bother people if the people are already bothering them. This hap 
pens occasionally when a fisher manages to catch one of these creatures on a line 
baited for other game. If the fisher can manage to reel the skyfish in, he is in for a 
tasty treat. Skyfish are considered to be one of the finest delicacies in Saragar. But to 
land his catch, the fisher is in for something of a battle. 

Habitat/Society: Skyfish mate for life. They lay large, birdlike eggs, which they keep 
protected in underwater nests until hatched. While there are eggs or young to be 
protected, one of the parents stays with the precious things while the other hunts for 
food for the family. Skyfish usually hunt alone, but they have been known to band 
into flocks to take down large prey. 

Ecology: The skyfish seems to have the best of both worlds. Since the creatures can 
breathe both air and water equally well, they can escape predators that are based 
solely in either element. For this reason, the skyfish population is always high. Were 
it not for the fact that the people of the Last Sea hunt these creatures for their tasty 
flesh, they might have literally overrun the entire valley. As it is, a canny fisher rarely 
has to wait long to find a skyfish in one of his nets. 



91 



Squark 

Climate/Terrain: 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 

Special Attacks: 

Special Defenses: 
Magic Resistance: 
SIZE: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 

Psionics Summary: 


Player's Option: 

The squark is a legendary cross between a giant squid and a great white shark. It is 
unique in the Last Sea and therefore on all of Athas. It was trapped in Marnita when 
the Mind Lords closed the Barrier of Guardians. How old it was when this happened 
is unknown, but the monstrosity must be at least nine millennia old. 

The squark has the front half of an extremely large shark, but instead of the tail 
and fins one would expect to find at the rear of such a creature, there are instead 10 
long tentacles which make up the bulk of the creature's 75' length. The creature is 
entirely a deep crimson red from its nose to the end of its longest tentacle, except for 
the pinkish suckers on the inside of its tentacles, and its flat black eyes. 

Combat: The squark's head is full of a dozen rows of three-inch-long, razor-sharp 
teeth. It can use these to rend a victim to shreds in mere seconds. The monster 
seems to favor this method of attack for its directness: This gets food into its mouth 
faster than any other way. 

Two of the squark's tentacles are longer than the others. These are barbed and cause 
2-12 points of damage when they hit. The other six do 1-6 points of damage each. 

When the direct approach doesn't seem to work for whatever reason, the squark 
likes to grab a victim in its tentacles and constrict the pour soul while wrestling him 
into reach of its jaws. It can attack a single opponent with all eight of its tentacles at 
once, or it can constrict up to two foes at once with its larger tentacles, leaving the 
others free to attack normally. 

Once a constricting tentacle hits, it then does 2d6 points of damage every round 
thereafter. A constricted character may have one or more arms pinned (01-25% both 
pinned, 26-50% left arm, 51-75% right arm, or b76-100% both arms. Constricted 
characters cannot cast any spells, but they can use weapons to attack the tentacle 
holding them, if they have at least one arm free. If one arm is free, the character's 
attack rolls suffer a penalty of -3. If both arms are free, the attack roll suffers only a 
-1 penalty. 

The squark can drag a ship up to 40' long into the depths of Marnita by simply 


The Last Sea 
Very rare 
Solitary 
Any 

Carnivore 
Very (12) 

Nil 

Neutral evil 
1 (unique) 

5/0 

Sw 13, Jet 24 
18 
5 
9 

2-12 (x2)/1 -6 
(x6)/3-18 
Constriction, 
psionics 
Ink, psionics 
Nil 

G (75' long) 

Champion (16) 

15,000 
Dis 3/Sci 
3/Dev 9; 

Ps 12; PSP 37 
Att: Pb, Ew/Def: Mbk, 
MAC 5 



Tw 


92 


wrapping its tremendous tentacles around the hapless craft and hauling it down. It can 
halt the movement of larger vessels with only one turn of dragging on their hulls. After 
six or more tentacles have squeezed the ship for three consecutive rounds, the vessel 
suffers damage as if it had been rammed, and it begins to take on water and sink. 

The squark's head is AC 0, and its tentacles are AC 5. It takes 15 points of damage 
to sever a tentacle-20 for the larger ones. (These hit points are in addition to the hit 
points the creature gets from Hit Dice, and the tentacles will regenerate themselves 
entirely within two full weeks.) If four or more tentacles are severed, the monster 
will dive into the depths of the Last Sea to its nest, a full mile below the surface, 
squirting a cloud of ink behind it to cover its retreat. This ink cloud is 60 feet wide 
by 60 feet high and 80 feet long. The cloud is impossible to see through by any nor 
mal means. 

In addition to all this, the squark is a wild talent. It has 86 PSPs, and its power of 
phase permits it to avoid nearly all deadly attacks. It also lets the creature enter and 
exit its subterranean lair buried beneath the deepest part of Marnita's floor. It uses 
the following attacks: mind thrust, psionic blast, and psychic crush. It also has these 
defenses: mental barrier, mind blank, and tower of iron will. 

Habitat/Society: The squark is a solitary creature. There are no others of its kind. It 
has taken on a sort of legendary status with the people of Saragar, few of whom have 
actually ever seen the squark. This is for three reasons. 

First, the squark hunts big game only rarely. It doesn't need much food, so it nor 
mally contents itself with the creatures that it finds on the bottom of the sea. The 
squark spends large amounts of time sleeping on the Last Sea's floor. Those who are 
unfortunate enough to somehow disturb its slumber can only hope that they will live 
to regret such a mistake. 

Second, the Mind Lords know about the squark and have even managed to com 
municate with it upon occasion. They have made it clear that if the creature 
becomes too much of a nuisance to them, they will destroy it no matter what the 
cost. So far, the squark has respected the boundaries of the Mind Lords' people, and 
they usually respect its presence in return. 

Third, since the squark lives in the deep sea, those who get close enough to actu 
ally see the creature often find that satisfying their curiosity their final act. 

Ecology: The squark is at the top of the food chain in the valley of the Last Sea. The 
only creatures with any real hope to ever stand against it are the Mind Lords them 
selves. The squark is not a bully, though, and it has no delusions of taking over the 
entire Last Sea. It knows that without the Mind Lords' help, the Last Sea would dis 
appear just like all others have, and that would mean its own end. 

After nearly 10 millennia, the squark is content to simply live. Upon occasion, it 
becomes curious about a ship passing high overhead, and it hauls the vessel down 
to check out the contents for itself. Most of the sailors on the Last Sea know all 
about the squark, or at least about the no-go zone in the center of the sea. Those 
who cross the sea directly and regularly occasionally disappear without a trace. 
Although the local fishers believe it, no one can prove for certain what is the truth of 
the matter: that the squark is hauling such wayward vessel down into its domain. 

The squark sometimes has some problems with young lizard men out to prove 
their bravery to their tribe. To touch the squark squarely on the nose is held to be 
one of the most insanely brave things that a person can do. Nearly all lizard men of 
patrol leader rank or greater have tried such a thing at least once. Some have even 
succeeded, but even more who left to try never came back. 


93 


Thesik 



Str: 


Dex 


Con 


Int: 


Wis 


Cha: 


Armor Class: n/a 

Movement: 12 

Level: 29 

Hit Points: 84 

THACO: 6 

No. of Attacks: 0 

MAC: -1 

MTHACO: -8 

PSPs: 401 

Psionic Attacks: All 

Psionic Defenses: All 

Psionic Sciences: 

Banishment, clairvoyance, 
death field, disintegrate, hallucination, life 
draining, mass domination, megakinesis, 
poison simulation, precognition, true 
sight, summon planar creature, sup 
press magic, teleport, time travel. 

Psionic Devotions: Aging, amnesia, 
animate shadow, awe, cannibalize, con 
ceal thoughts, control light, create sound, danger sense, deflect, dimension walk, 
double pain, dream travel, ESP, ghost writing, incarnation awareness, inflict pain, 
invisibility, iron will, know location, mass manipulations, phobia amplification, pre 
destination, prolong, psychic drain, radial navigation, receptacle, see magic, send 
thoughts, spirit sense, suspend animation, shadow walk, time dilation, time shift, 
true worship. 


Mind Lord of the Last Sea 

Male Human Psionicist, Lawful Evil 


Thesik is one of the three Mind Lords of the Last Sea. As with his two compatriots, 
his psyche has been placed into an obsidian orb held in a secret chamber buried 
deep beneath Saragar's castle, ensuring his effective immortality. The visage that he 
shows to the people of the Last Sea is that of a tall, thin man in his late fifties. He is 
entirely bald, although his eyebrows are the same pitch black as his soulless eyes, 
but this is simply a mental projection of his orb. This image is no more substantial 
than the wind, but by combining it with some expert telekinesis, Thesik has been 
able to maintain the illusion that he is actually alive for centuries. 

Thesik is worshipped by his people as the god of the dead, and he plays that role 
to the hilt. He is always seen dressed in long black robes, and his skin is so pale that 
it seem certain that he almost never stands for long in the rays of the sun. No matter 
how warm it may be, Thesik never sweats (he simply doesn't bother to make his 
image look like it does or even could). In short, to the Athasians of the Last Sea, he 
looks inhuman. 

As the god of the dead, Thesik is reputed to visit people in their final hour and 
deliver them to the underworld. In one sense, this is true, as Thesik regularly collects 
the dead bodies of his people, teleporting them to his secret lab in the palace. There 
he conducts experiments on their dead brains. 

Thesik believes that if he can ever fully understand the brain he might learn how to 
teach others to rapidly ascend to his level of power (which by then he will have left far 
behind, having truly become a godlike being). If this happens, it's conceivable that an 
army of such powerful psionicists would be able to exterminate the Sorcerer-Kings and 
subsequently every practitioner of magic on Athas. Then they could work to restore 
their planet to a new Green Age, a time that Thesik refers to as the Emerald Age. 

Thesik claims to have seen this all come to pass in his mental journeys to the 


94 




future, but whether this is the truth or simply some figment of a mind unbalanced by 
so many years of living, it is impossible to tell. In any case, Thesik has been working 
on this research for many millennia now, and he seems no closer to a breakthrough 
than ever before. Still, such a mental leap forward could occur at any time. 

Long ago at the height of the Green Age, Thesik was a top researcher at the 
Psionic Academy of Saragar. It was while he was teaching a class of promising 
novices that he met and fell in love with the fair Barani. She was bright and beauti 
ful, his most promising student and the sole owner of his heart. She was everything 
to him. 

For that reason, he brought her into his confidence and revealed to her exactly 
what is was that he was researching: the ultimate fate of Athas. 

Thesik, along with his able colleague Kosveret, had finally come up with a means 
of mentally traveling forward in time. They had yet to perfect it, but with some fresh 
insights from Barani, they made rapid progress. 

When they were ready, the trio sent young Barani forward in time far enough for 
her to actually witness the coming of the Sorcerer-Kings and the end of the Green 
Age. Upon her return, she was so distraught that the men originally thought the trip 
had unbalanced her mind. When they duplicated her trip themselves and came to 
comprehend the all-too-horrible truth, they hatched a scheme to take control of 
Saragar and protect Marnita from the ravages of time forever-or at least until Thesik's 
research is complete. 

Role-Playing 

Thesik's mind is usually occupied with things which he considers more important 
than the daily affairs of humanoid life. His generally ignores his people and any so- 
called matters of state unless they involve outsiders of some kind. He is vehement in 
his insistence that no wizardly magic be permitted within the Border of Guardians. If 
he finds that it has been, he will take matters into his own hands and may even pay 
the transgressors a personal visit. 

Thesik is absent-minded and aloof. It seems that he has trouble maintaining his 
train of thought for more than a few minutes at a time. His research is always 
infringing on his every moment. 

His rage can be terrible, though. The greatest source of that these days is Barani, 
his estranged wife. He knows that her mind has fragmented into two personalities: 
one that loves him and one that does not. He hopes that his research will provide 
him with the means to cure her (and possibly even Kosveret and himself) before its 
too late. 

He knows his mind is failing, and this is the most frustrating of all. After all, if the 
Mind Lords pass away, can the Last Sea be far behind? 

Combat 

In his guise as the god of death, Thesik uses his mental power to kill and maim 
opponents in loud and horrible ways. He prefers to use his awe power to cow 
potential attackers into submission before they even raise a hand against him, but 
when pressed, he fights back with devastating effect. 

Since Thesik's image is insubstantial, it's immune to physical attacks (he attributes 
this to his phase power). If the Mind Lord is pressed mentally, though, he will simply 
deactivate his image, making it seem as if he has teleported to safety. 


95 



The most far-reaching and detailed 
compilation of magical items ever 
published for any role-playing game 
in four volumes. 





/V-,; 


'<**<#.* p;;v 




Official Game Accessory 




i u c!oa i9oi 


by Matt Forbeck 


'"The very concept of an entire sea of water, 
a liquid jewel more precious than even the 
grandest diamond, defies conception by 
most Athasians. . . 

|| <1. yw V -ft t 'Jmmm i - 






AuvanCED D" vr.HOse. Ac Ih iCQKS n"l Si n regplwd Ira denude i.lvik I h> 5hit, Inr. 

Tlw TSB Infill ij J Ip-jwIui Ark mined t* VSR, IW- I'lWi TSR, Inc. Alt ri&hls rewired. Mart* in the L.'.S.A 






The Last 


Sea Keei on 




A* 



(r) S " ^ 




¦<&> 


Tlie: Searched Flstcau 



o 


Lava Gorge 


The Silt Sea 


o 

Mpo^ 

ftufincr'* 

T ra-deneiS 


££& u 






m 

Mountains 

M 

F Orest 

- 

Rocky badlands 

g^% 

Lake 

-- _ , 


¦ ¦¦ t ¦' u ¦ 

h-'-'i V ¦_" t -'¦ 

/!*?'-V-?Y 

3 t o r. Lj Oarreni 

.,1*. ¦'**¦ 

•Scrub Flairs 


5*ndy Waste 

TV ... " 

¦ ' r ¦ . . 

"* - 

5*ulder Field 

MM 

Mud rlat 

* 

Village 

- "¦ 

Miattj border 

(§} 

City 


Grassland* 

O 

Oasis 



Ti hy Mi if :• 


I 











































In the Lands 

of the 

Last Sea 


An adventure for The Mind Lords of the Last Sea 



by Matt Forbeck 







IiE. Ire. 

SOT Sherrdtan Spnrig? Ruad 
Uike flem^n 
VVI 53147 

USA 

1SK Lief, 

1 2 II Oi'irrh Fnrl 
Cheuy I linLori 

C^b'tidfce CBl 'LB 
Un kingdom 

24J43"fhW2 



Credits 

Design: Matt Forbeck 

Editing: Lester Smith 

Cover Art: Westlight 

Interior Art: John T. Snyder 

Art Director: Bob Galica 

Cartography: Dennis Kauth & Rob Lazzaretti 

Typography: Tracey L. Isler 

Dedication: This is for everyone who helped me in the Big Move. 



Advanced Dungeons & Dragons, AD&D, Dark Sun, Dungeon Master, and Monstrous Compendium are 
registered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. Monstrous Manual, Player's Option, and the TSR logo are 
trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses 
thereof 
are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. Copyright (c) 1996 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. Made in U.S.A. 
Random 
House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for English-
language 
products of TSR, Inc. Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. This product is protected by the 
copyright 
laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork 
contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 

Permission granted to photocopy or print this product for personal use. 







Introduction . 4 

The Adventure's Setting . 4 

The Adventure's Overview . 6 

Part 1: Welcome to the Last Sea . 7 

Prelude . 7 

Start. 8 

Outcome . 9 

Part 2: Allies and Foes . 10 

The Lawkeepers . 11 

The Underground. 14 

Blufftown . 16 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


The Storm Giants.19 

The Lizard Men .22 

In the Halls of Kharzden .25 


Part 3: Resolution 

Kosveret's Lair 


28 

29 




















INTRODUCTION 


In the Lands of the Last Sea is an adventure designed for a party of four to six player 
characters (PCs) of 6th through 8th level. The party should represent a good mix of 
character classes and races, although wizards would be well advised to keep the 
nature of their profession to themselves, as they will be welcomed by few residents 
of the Last Sea region. 

If there is a chance that you as the reader will play a hero in this adventure, stop 
reading now. The information in this book is meant for the Dungeon Master (DM) only. 
If any player knows about the secrets contained in this book, such knowledge will 
destroy much of the tension otherwise brought about by encountering the unknown. 

Before reading In the Lands of the Last Sea, be sure to examine the Mind Lords of 
the Last Sea sourcebook thoroughly. Knowing the information in that book is essential 
for understanding the material presented in this adventure book. In the Lands of the 
Last Sea refers back to the sourcebook for information on certain nonplayer characters 
(NPCs), customs, and locale information. Other NPCs and monsters pertinent to this 
adventure are included in this book. Some of them have notations in color these are 
in reference to those players who are also using the Player's Option(tm) rules. 

Besides this adventure book and the accompanying sourcebook, you will need 
copies of the AD&D 2nd Edition Player's Handbook (PHB), Dungeon Master(r) 

Guide (DMG), Monstrous Manual(tm) accessory, and the Dark Surf Expanded and 
Revised Campaign Setting boxed set. It would also be helpful to have copies of the 
Dark Sun Monstrous Compendium(r), Appendix I: Terrors of the Desert and the Dark 
Sun Monstrous Compendium, Appendix II: Terrors Beyond Tyr. 

Note that In the Lands of the Last Sea is only one of many different types of 
adventures that can take place in the region around Marnita. If you would like addi 
tional ideas for further adventures, simply read over the Mind Lords of the Last Sea 
sourcebook. Even if you decide not to run the adventure in this book, the informa 
tion contained herein will aid you in your understanding of the dynamics of what 
goes on behind the happy facade presented by the Mind Lords of the Last Sea. 

The Adventure's Setting 

The tale of the Mind Lords and their efforts to save Marnita from the destruction that 
has occurred over the rest of Athas is described in some detail in the sourcebook 
accompanying this adventure. Still, there are some pertinent bits of information that 
have been left out of the sourcebook to keep them hidden from prying eyes. 

The salvation of Marnita and its transformation into the Last Sea began nine millennia 


4 



ago with Marneet being visited by a strange phantom from the future. This vision wore 
many familiar faces (including those of each of the Mind Lords and even Marneet him 
self), and he went about making dire predictions. This event spurred Marneet into charg 
ing the Mind-Lords-to-be with a task: to find a way to peer into the future and deter 
mine what the mysterious visitor was trying to warn the lawmaker about. 

Thesik, Kosveret, and Barani finally succeeded in fulfilling Marneet's wishes; these 
three learned the fate of their home world, and they were filled with fear. The Mind- 
Lords-to-be hatched a plan, however: If they could not save Athas, they could at 
least save their beloved Last Sea. 

The trio wrested control of the region from Marneet, convinced they could forge a 
new future for Marnita, one in which happiness and prosperity ruled (perhaps some 
times by force). Their dream came to fruition, and they saved their adopted home 
land from permanent destruction. 

Since then, the dream has gone bad. 

The people of the Last Sea are ruled mostly by fear of the lawkeepers and their har- 
monizers. Corruption runs rampant throughout the entire society, and even the vaunted 
Border of Guardians is leaking like a sieve. While the lives of most denizens of Marnita 
are far easier than those of the people of the Tyr region, they live under a more subtle 
kind of tyranny, one that many of the subjects have come to find almost pleasant. 

The Mind Lords have gone mad, and now they pay little attention to their people. They 
have abandoned the populace to its fate while they struggle with the battles going on in 
their own minds, and that is the primary reason for why the "dream" has gone bad. 

Barani's personality has fractured deeply, but when she is sad she keeps to herself, 
and when she's happy she is actually helpful to others-the beloved earth mother. 
Thesik's world is ruled by melancholy, and he rarely bothers to communicate with 
anyone, even his fellow Mind Lords. 

Kosveret, however, is even farther removed from sanity. He is a dangerous lunatic. 
He is well known for his occasional random killings, but most people in the area 
look upon this as the price to be paid for living under gods who have ignored the 
rest of the world in favor of looking after their chosen children. What no one knows 
of, though, is Kosveret's new plan for remedying the situation at hand. 

Kosveret has decided that something needs to be done to ensure the continuing 
salvation of the Last Sea. To his mind, the "salvation" of the Last Sea was quite possi 
bly the worst mistake that the Mind Lords could have made. He believes it would 
have been better to have let nature take its course and turn the Last Sea into the 
same desert that has claimed the rest of the planet. If the Mind Lords can't be made 
to save the entire world, he reasons, they shouldn't do anything at all. 

In his more lucid moments, Kosveret has concocted a daring scheme to psionical- 
ly travel into the past to warn Marneet of the dangers that the Mind Lords present to 
both him and the Last Sea. If he succeeds in this, he believes he will be able to 
counteract the effects of Marneet's other visitor from the future. 

Unfortunately for Kosveret, he believes he cannot reach back into the past without 
help. In the past, his trips through time were always assisted by Thesik and Barani. 
Since they will certainly not help him destroy all that they have worked so hard for, 
he must find another way. 

In his madness, Kosveret has decided that there is a new kind of psionic ritual that 
he can perform that will amplify his power enough for him to be able to reach back 
into the past himself. The key component to this ritual is a number of humanoid brains 
taken fresh from live victims. Once Kosveret has collected enough of these brains, he 
will have the necessary power to pierce the veil of time and peer into the past. 

As such, dead bodies have been turning up around the city, their heads strangely 
empty of the brains that were once housed in them. Since Kosveret actually teleports 
away the victim's brain after psionically destroying the person's mind, there are no 
physical markings to show how death has occurred. This fact is only noticeable after 
a thorough autopsy in which the skull cavity is cracked open. 

Both the lawkeepers and the Underground have become aware of a rising murder 
rate, something entirely accountable for by the killings that Kosveret has committed. 
Since the mad Mind Lord wishes to keep his actions secret from Thesik and Barani 
(the only two with enough power to stop him), he has been trying to harvest his 
brains slowly. At first, he only killed one or two people a week, but the rate has 


5 



accelerated to nearly one person per day. Soon he will have all the brains he needs, 
and he will put his plan into effect. 

Adventure's Overview 

The kicker, of course, is that the message Kosveret is attempting to prevent is actually 
the one he will personally deliver. If he succeeds in his mission, he will be the 
strange apparition who visited Marneet on that momentous night so very long ago. 

It's up to the heroes to first figure out who is committing the strange murders. 

Once that's done, they need to determine why Kosveret is harvesting the brains and 
what he intends to do with them. Since they are very likely unaware of the big pic 
ture, they will probably attempt to prevent Kosveret from completing his scheme-at 
least they ought to! 

Kosveret may easily be able to handle most parties of adventurers, so the heroes 
should feel free to call on the other Mind Lords for help. Of course, until they have 
some hard proof that Kosveret is behind the killings, the adventurers will be wasting 
their breath pleading with Thesik and Barani for aid. 

If Kosveret manages to pull off his scheme, upon his return he will discover that 
nothing at all has changed. Realizing that it was he himself who went back in time and 
influenced Marneet, his madness will sicken his heart at what he perceives to be the 
folly of the Mind Lords. In a fit of rage, he will try to kill himself and anyone nearby. 

If Kosveret's plan is foiled, the millennia between the time the mysterious wander 
er was to have visited Marneet and the present is filled with desolation for the Last 
Sea. The area will instantly change into a desert, and no one that lives there now 
will ever have been born. The only one still around (besides the heroes, whose pasts 
are not involved with the Last Sea) will be Kosveret, immune to the change because 
he was attempting to travel through time when it occurred and was subsequently 
caught in a vortex for all those long centuries. Either the adventurers or Kosveret 
should be able to figure out what has happened. Upon seeing the utter destruction 
that has corrupted the once lovely region and realizing all the people who have died 
or were never born, Kosveret is filled with remorse, and his madness is lifted, at least 
temporarily. Working together, he and the adventurers should be able to repair the 
damage done, restoring the Last Sea to its pristine beauty. 

In either case, the general status of the valley of the Last Sea remains unchanged 
in the end, although the stature of the heroes involved in the adventure is sure to 
have grown. This leaves the door open for many future adventures that should 
delight players for many sessions to come. 



6 











PART 1: 


Welcome to the 

Last Sea 

Assuming that the heroes have somehow made it inside the borders of the valley of 
the Last Sea, they still have yet to experience all that waits for them in this ever-mys- 
terious land. Before they venture too far into the lands surrounding Marnita, though, 
they are accosted by a guardian of a different type: Kosveret himself. The psychotic 
Mind Lord is out hunting for victims again, and he is only too happy to take advan 
tage of the arrival of newcomers to his land. After all, who's going to miss them? 

The encounter will surely go badly for the adventurers unless they can somehow 
manage to distract Kosveret from his intended course of action. There are a number 
of ways to do this, some of which are outlined below. The easiest method is to hurt 
Kosveret, something which hasn't happened to him for some time. 

The idea behind this encounter is to introduce the characters to the murderer lurk 
ing in the Last Sea and give them a personal stake in bringing about his downfall. If 
possible, Kosveret will steal the brain of one of the characters in the party. This 
should definitely get their attention-though at a tremendous cost. 

At the end of the encounter, the heroes should be mad and scared. This creature 
that has killed one of their own is far stronger than any of them can possibly stand 
against, and that should set the tone for the adventure. Just as in a hard-boiled detec 
tive mystery, the adventurers are in far over their heads, and brains, not brawn, will 
carry the day. 


Prelude 

This encounter actually begins long before most of the adventurers are aware of it. 

One night while the heroes are sleeping, Kosveret teleports one of them away to his 
secret hiding place on the Lonely Butte. There, alone, the hero stands very little 



7 



chance against the Mind Lord, and he or she is soon knocked unconscious. 

Once the victim has been rendered senseless, Kosveret assumes the hero's form 
and returns to the camp or room. During the following morning, Kosveret poses as 
the victim, entering into oddly inquisitive conversations with the heroes. Once they 
spot the inevitable discrepancies in the impostor's knowledge of the party and con 
front him with this, Kosveret reveals himself. The mad elf immediately attacks the 
adventurers, concentrating his efforts on the most powerful psionicist in the party. 
Barring this, he'll go after the character with the highest Intelligence. He believes 
that more powerful brains will make his quest easier. 

Before the game begins, take the character with the lowest Intelligence to one 
side and read the following to him or her: 

/ts you sleep one night in the confines of the valley of the Last Sea, you are 
assaulted by strange dreams. When you awake, you are lying on bare stone in 
complete darkness. Suddenly, a light with no discernible source bursts into being 
above you. You hear the roar of unending thunder in the distance. 

Looking around, you see that you are in a lofty chamber, perhaps 20 yards on 
each side. A large obsidian orb rests on an ivory pedestal in the far corner of the 
room. In another corner is what appears to be a large mound of brains of all 
shapes and sizes, packed in a tremendous bowl of crushed crystals from which a 
sensation of cold emanates. The brains appear to be perfectly preserved, almost as 
if they were still alive somehow, separated as they are from their rightful bodies. 

You are distracted from gathering the rest of the details, however, by the sight 
of a skeletally thin elf standing in front of you. The elf's long blond hair is worn 
free, and it frames his face squarely. Your gaze is inevitably drawn to his burning 
eyes, which seem to be scorching directly into your brain. 


At this point, Kosveret attacks the character psionically. The battle should be short 
and sweet. Once Kosveret manages to beat the hero's psyche into submission, every 
thing fades to black for that character. 

Explain to the player that you need him or her to run a different character for a 
period of time in the game. This character is identical to his or her own in form and 
function, except that it knows little or nothing about the rest of the party. In essence, 
it is a special sort of doppleganger. Feel free to mislead the player about the nature 
of the creature being played (perhaps implying that it is in fact a doppleganger or 
somesuch). That's the nature of a mystery. 

Ask the player to make the new character as inquisitive and nosy as possible. At no 
point, though, can he or she directly tip off the other players as to what's going on. 
Pretend it's just some kind of twisted joke that the player is fortunate to be a part of. 

Start 



Once the prelude is complete, begin the morning after Kosveret has switched him 
self for one of the adventurers. Run through the day as you normally would, waiting 
for the rest of the heroes to figure out that their companion is not who he seems. 

If need be, keep playing through the encounters in Part 2 of this book. Ideally, 
Kosveret shouldn't be with them by the end of that section of the adventure, though. 

If the heroes still haven't figured it out by the end of Part 2, however, Kosveret reveals 
himself to them, mocking their ability to observe their surroundings closely. How are 
they ever going to find him if they can't do so while he's right in their midst? 

There are several ways in which the impostor can be revealed. Kosveret will not 
bother wasting energy on faking eating or drinking, refusing both when offered. Also, 
he will refuse to carry anything unless it is pressed upon him. If it is, he will drop the 
item at the nearest opportunity, no matter how valuable it may happen to be. 

Kosveret is also extremely inquisitive. This fact alone could tip off some of the 
heroes if they stop to question why the character continues to ask questions about 
things he should obviously know about. Via his mind-reading powers, Kosveret 
knows a great deal about the character he is impersonating, but this does not extend 
any further. 



Once the adventurers confront Kosveret about who he really is, read the following 
aloud: 

You blink, and suddenly your friend is no longer there. One by one, the creature 
before you polymorphs into each of your forms in rapid succession. In the end, 
your friend has been replaced by a man who is tall and extremely thin, even for an 
elf. Long blond hair falls freely past his shoulders, it's pale sheen standing out in 
stark contrast to his well-tanned skin. 

The elf's eyes begin to literally smolder and burn, flames apparently consuming his 
bushy eyebrows. He turns to [the most powerful psionicist or most Intelligent person 
in the group], and says, "I'm so very pleased to finally meet you all for myself. I wish 
I had time to chat, but you've got something I need, and I'll be taking it now." 

With this, Kosveret attacks. His first target will be the character he was talking to, 
but he can easily be dissuaded from taking this person's brain if things turn against 
him. In the end, it's likely that the heroes will be able to come up with some way to 
scratch Kosveret's cocky demeanor or, at the very least, escape the mad elf's attacks. 

If this happens, Kosveret will turn to the most defenseless person around (either a PC 
or an NPC). After destroying this person's mind psionically, Kosveret teleports the vic 
tim's brain to his hideaway. When he does this, the elf will make a crack that implies 
that, while he didn't get what he wanted, he's not leaving the area empty-handed. 

The Mind Lord will teleport back to his lair soon after and then teleport the per 
son he had been impersonating back to join his or her fellows. Kosveret's first victim 
will be able to tell the others in the party of his or her strange experience. 

It seems that Kosveret is getting sloppier as his plan gets closer to fruition. One 
might even think that the elf wants to get caught, and perhaps this is even true. His 
mind is stronger than just about anyone's, and his madness is correspondingly more 
subtle than most. 

A full description of Kosveret and his powers and statistics can be found on page 
82 of the Mind Lords of the Last Sea sourcebook. 


Outcome 

At the end of this encounter, one character will have returned from a near brush 
with death, and another will (most likely) be dead. If you are reluctant to have a 
player character die so abruptly, feel free to have Kosveret attack and kill a nonplayer 
character conveniently traveling with the party. If there normally isn't an NPC with 
the group, you can set them up with one earlier. This could be a native of the Last 
Sea or a guide or porter that the adventurers picked up on their way into the region. 

In any case, the means of the character's death is mysterious. The only clue as to 
what has happened is that the corpse's nose is bleeding freely. Only a close inspec 
tion (an autopsy, for instance) will reveal that the victim's braincase is, in fact, empty. 

This horrible state can only be entirely cured by a resurrection or a raise dead 
spell. The kind of high-level priests required to cast such spells can only be found in 
the tiny town of Shallat on the northern shore of the Last Sea. Both Duke Jaan and 
Duchess Shelistone are lOth-level priests, capable of casting raise dead, but for this 
spell to work, all essential body parts must be attached. Without the character's 
brain, the corpse would only live for bare minutes after the spell was cast. Of 
course, the brain could be regenerated, but this is a 7th-level spell, and resurrection 
(also a 7th-level spell) would be more effective. 

Unless the characters have the means to cast resurrection themselves, the only 
way to restore their fallen comrade to health is to get back his or her brain and 
return it to its body. Only then will the Shallatian's healing powers prove useful to 
the dead adventurer. 

Thus a race against time begins. The longer that the heroes' friend is dead, the 
harder it will be to resurrect him or her, and the greater the chance that the brain 
will be irreparably damaged. To find the culprit, the adventurers must interact with 
the people of the Last Sea, sometimes forcibly, to gather the information that will 
lead them to the person they seek-the mysterious elf with the pile of living brains. 


9 



PART 2: 


Allies and Foes 


Now that the adventurers' goal has been set, it's time for them to become even 
more deeply enmeshed in the strange scheme they have been involuntarily caught 
up in. These scenarios are designed to show the heroes that what has befallen their 
friend is not an isolated incident. In fact, a rash of such murders has plagued the 
valley for weeks now, although the incidents have been particularly bad in Saragar. 

The lawkeepers of Saragar are tearing their collective hair out trying to track 
down the killer. Lawkeeper Efkenu has his own suspicions about who is responsi 
ble, but the Mind Lords have refused to discuss any such possibilities with him. 

Barani is in her ''earth mother" personality right now, and although she is con 
cerned about the killings, she is more worried about caring for the victims' relatives 
than any kind of retribution. Thesik, on the other hand, is extremely worried about 
Kosveret, for he is aware that his old friend has removed the obsidian orb that hous 
es his psyche from its resting place next to the other two Mind Lords' orbs, but 
Thesik has no idea where the mad elf has taken himself to. 

The Underground (via some of its members that happen to be harmonizers) also 
has a good idea about what's happening. It wants to expose Kosveret for who he is, 
proving to the people of Saragar that they should rise up against him and their other 
secret oppressors, the trio that has tyrannically kept everyone happy for so long. 

The lizard men have also had some of the mysterious murders plaguing their 
people. Those that support Nelyrox are entirely bewildered by the murders, but 
they suspect that this might be some sort of power-play by Xhenrid and her follow 
ers. Xhenrid, through her contacts in the Underground, believes that Kosveret might 
actually be behind the killings, but without proof she knows that King Nelyrox 
could use this opportunity to hang her out to dry. 

Even the storm giants have suffered at the mind of Kosveret. He has taken two of 
their number in the last few days. These are the first unnatural deaths for a storm 
giant in the tribe's memory, and this fact has shaken them all to the bone. 

As the heroes wander about looking for clues to the location of their friend's 
brain, they will have many encounters. If they are honest with those they meet, 
they will find people extremely willing to cooperate with them. These killings have 
got everyone scared. 

That the characters are outsiders is a double-edged sword. On one hand, the fact 


10 



that the heroes are unknown will make them instant suspects. On the other, the fact 
that they are uninvolved in the politics of the region makes them instantly more 
trustworthy than most. In nearly all cases, the adventurers will be met with a great 
deal of initial suspicion. If things go well, though, they should be able to convince 
their new acquaintances of their innocence in the murders and the fact that they 
could be helpful in the search for the killer. 

The following encounters can be run in any order that is appropriate for the play 
ers and the mood that has been set for them. Use as many or as few of them as is 
appropriate for the party. These encounters will provide valuable clues that the play 
er characters need to figure out who is causing the murders as well as giving them 
information on what may need to be done to prevent the Mind Lord's nefarious plan. 

Once the adventurers have figured out that Kosveret is behind the murders, the 
encounters in this part of the adventure show the heroes how they can find the 
Mind Lord. When they find that out, they're ready for the final confrontation, "Part 
3: Resolution." 

The Lawkeepers 

The city of Saragar is today a city gripped by fear, what with the increasing number 
of murders and the mad actions of the three Mind Lords. Few in the area are as 
happy as the laws of the Mind Lords mandate that they should be. The lawkeepers 
are themselves almost in despair. They try to maintain a confident appearance for the 
benefit of the general public while they flounder about, hoping to be able to pin the 
murders on some convenient soul. 

In fact, the lawkeepers have already hauled in nearly a dozen suspected murder 
ers and "harmonized" them. Unfortunately, this hasn't done any good, for the 
killings have continued unabated. In fact, the last person to be harmonized was 
recently found dead-his brain missing. 


11 






As outsiders, the heroes are instantly suspects in the murders. As soon as a 
lawkeeper spots them, he will try to arrest them. If they resist, he will sound the gen 
eral alarm. The entire city will then be after the heroes until they are either captured 
or chased well beyond Saragar's borders. 

Read the following aloud as the adventurers walk through the city of Saragar: 

You are strolling through Saragar's streets. This is a city unlike no other you have 
ever seen. The roads are clean and seemingly untouched by offal. The buildings 
are nearly all in good repair. The people seem inordinately friendly and helpful. 

As you turn a corner, you nearly bump into a short man with short, dark hair. He 
looks up at you angrily, and you realize that his is the first unsmiling face you've 
seen since you've entered Saragar. He is wearing a short, white robe trimmed with 
blue designs along the hem. A glint of metal peeps beneath the pristine cloth - 
chainmail! A long sword in an exquisite scabbard hangs at his waist, and he carries 
a small wooden shield banded with steel. As he takes in your strange countenances 
and your obviously foreign dress, a smile grows upon his face. 

"Hello, travelers," he intones, his smile broadening into a grin. "Welcome to our 
fair city of Saragar. I would be most obliged if you would come with me so that I 
may orient you to what we have to offer." 

As you look around, you notice that the traffic on the street has come to a dead 
halt, and the eyes of all are turned on you, waiting to see what your response will be. 


The lone lawkeeper is a man named Srantan. He has recently joined the ranks of 
the lawkeepers, and he is looking to make a name for himself. He figures that haul 
ing in a group of outsiders single-handedly would work quite nicely. Likely out 
comes are as follows: 

• If the adventurers go along with Srantan, he leads them to the lawkeeper's 
headquarters, located in the palace. There he turns them over to Lawkeeper 
Efkenu himself in a highly pompous display. 

• If the adventurers refuse to accompany Srantan, he demands that they do. If 

they continue to thwart his plan, he threatens to bring down the entire 
lawkeeping force on their heads. "Things will go better for you later if you 
cooperate now," he will tell them. If the heroes continue to defy Srantan, he 

makes good on his threat, psionically calling in enough backup to trap the 

adventurers and haul them in. There should be two lawkeepers for each mem 
ber of the party, and more can be called in if necessary. When confronted by 

the force before them, most PCs will give in. If they continue to resist, however, 
the lawkeepers attempt to subdue them without hurting them (at least not too 
much). In defense of their own lives, though, the lawkeepers are only too will 
ing to use lethal force. 

• If the heroes are captured, they are taken to Lawkeeper Efkenu, just as if they'd 
come along peacefully. This time, however, they are stripped of everything they 
own other than their clothing. 

In any case, when the heroes are brought before Efkenu, they find the chief lawkeeper 
to be an entirely reasonable man. He questions them briefly but thoroughly, occasion 
ally probing their minds psionically to determine whether they are telling the truth. 

Once Efkenu ascertains that they are not behind the killings (which should be fair 
ly obvious if the adventurers are only newly arrived to the region), he turns to 
Srantan and berates the man for his idiocy. This dressing down is harsh and even 
more so if the adventurers had to be taken in by force. "It's one thing to abuse your 
power on the street, far from prying eyes," Efkenu states, "but it's another thing 
entirely to unwillingly drag half of the lawkeeper force into it with you." 

After Efkenu finishes with Srantan, he turns his attention back to the heroes. Any 
items confiscated are returned to them immediately. Efkenu apologizes for Srantan's 
zealousness. "What with the killings," he says, "the entire city is on edge." 

This is an opportunity for the heroes to ask Efkenu about the murders. They should 
now make the connection between the crime rash and their fallen comrade (if they 
haven't already). If they reveal their own story to Efkenu, the lawkeeper mulls it over 
for a moment and then makes the heroes a proposition. 


12 



The lawkeepers have been tracking down leads as to the killer's identity for weeks. 
Most of them have been dead ends. However, the one that they haven't been able to 
check out is whether the murderer is working out of Blufftown. 

Lawkeepers discovered in Blufftown are hurled back into the sea without the ben 
efit of the elevator system. As obvious outsiders, the adventurers would be beyond 
reproach. No one would even think to insinuate that they were connected to the 
lawkeepers. 

Efkenu tells the heroes that there is supposedly a dwarf in Blufftown called 
Grantuo. Sources say that Grantuo knows something about where the murderer is 
located, but he's been holed up in Blufftown for weeks and isn't talking. Efkenu 
thinks the Underground might be sheltering the dwarf. 

His pet theory (although he really knows better) is that the Underground has been 

committing the murders themselves with the eventual aim of pinning them on 
Kosveret, the mostly absent Mind Lord. This would so deeply shake the faith of the 
people of Saragar as to make revolution a real possibility for the first time ever. 

In any case, after Efkenu is done with them, the heroes are freed and allowed to 

go on their way. Srantan catches up with them at the palace gate and hisses after 
them that they're usefulness is limited. "Once you're through poking around for 
answers that you'll never find," Sranton declares, "Efkenu won't need you any more! 
And then you'll pay for embarrassing me so!" If the adventurers move toward him, 
he runs back to the safety of the palace, laughing maniacally the entire way. 

Encounter Statistics 

Srantan (Proctor) 

Human male psionicist (5th level): AC 4 (chain and shield); MV 12; hp 21; THACO 18 
(long sword); #AT 1; Dmg 1d8 (long sword); SZ M (5'4" tall); ML Steady (11); AL LN. 
Personality: Brash, devious, bullying 
Special equipment: None 





^ i 




til " 




IL\' 


'JHi, f , 


I8B 


t\ 






* f jl. ^ 


flil 






LTJ 


•* 


*1 



Lj 


r i 





& 2J|[k 

\5k*s&k 


Vm 






W • 



13 










Psionics Summary: 

PSPs: 34 

Psionic attacks: Ego whip, mind thrust, psionic blast 

Psionic defenses: Mental barrier, mind block, thought shield 

Psionic powers: Control light, deflect, detonate, domination, ESP, inflict pain, 

phobia amplification, stasis field, telekinesis, truthear 

Player's Option: #AT: 1; MTHACO: 16, MAC: 8 

For Lawkeeper Efkenu's statistics, see page 85 of the Mind Lords of the Last Sea 
sourcebook. There is also a lot of information about lawkeepers there. For the stan 
dard proctor chasing after the heroes (if that does come to pass), use Srantan's statis 
tics above, altering them a bit from proctor to proctor for variety's sake. 

Underground 

The Underground is in a panic. The murders that Kosveret has been committing have 
had a dire effect on the organization's morale. Half the Underground feels that now 
is the time to reveal the identity of the killer. Once the people realize it is one of 
their "gods" who is stealing brains, the people cannot fail to finally realize the 
absolute horror of the regime under which they have been living-right? 

The more cautious half of the Underground points out quite plainly that there is 
no direct evidence to connect Kosveret to the killings. Certainly, there are some eye 
witnesses, but with so many psionicists in the city, seeing a person commit a crime 
is hardly conclusive evidence that it was actually that person committing the crime; 
it could just as easily have been someone attempting to plant such a suggestion. 

The lawkeepers may not need solid proof to convict someone of a crime, but the 
Underground's accusations will not be tried in any court of law. Instead, it will be 
the people who will determine for themselves the veracity of the claims of Kosveret's 
guilt. Predictably, people who have long worshiped a creature as a god are bound to 
be reluctant to think their deity capable of such a crime. 

So it is that the Underground has reluctantly decided not to act until further evi 
dence against Kosveret can be gathered. No one is sure exactly how much proof will 
be needed, but the best possible situation would be to catch Kosveret red-handed in 
front of hundreds of impeccable eye-witnesses, or to figure out what he's planning to 
do with all those missing brains. 

To this end, the Underground has decided to approach the adventurers for assis 
tance, basing their decision on reasons similar to those of the lawkeepers. After all, 
as outsiders, the heroes have no vested interest in pinning the crimes on anyone; 
they only want to get back their friend's brain. 

After the adventurers wander into a tavern in one of the many towns along the 
shore of the Last Sea (not including Saragar), read aloud the following: 

You step into the tavern, and all voices fall silent. A small fire burns merrily in the 
corner, its staccato crackling the loudest sound in the room other than the thrum 
ming of your own heartbeat. All eyes are upon you and your comrades. Most of 
the faces you see belong to fisherfolk and barge drivers, hale and hearty men and 
women bronzed by long hours of exposure to the sun. In the far corner, one 
weathered old man-more wrinkled than even his amazingly ancient outfit - cack 
les softly to himself, oblivious to his surroundings. 

Almost as one, the people turn away from you and turn their attentions back to 
their conversations, their card games, and their ales. A middle-aged man who is 
sitting with the withered old salt in the corner rises and looks at you. He is well 
tanned, with dark eyes and long hair bleached blond by many sunny days on the 
water's surface. He motions subtly for you to follow him and then exits the tavern 
through the rear door. 


The man that has just walked outside is Severick, a lieutenant in the 
Underground. Since the Underground is constructed in the classic revolutionary cell 
structure, few people in the organization know each other (at least theoretically this 


14 



is so). In practice, outside of Saragar most Undergrounders know each other through 
other means, and the secret that Severick is a powerful member of the Underground 
is a poorly kept one. 

Severick has taken it upon himself to contact these outsiders and petition them for 
aid in his quest to prove that Kosveret has been stealing his citizens' brains. He 
doesn't have the general support of the rest of the Underground (not that there's any 
means of gathering a consensus anyhow), but this will hardly stop him from misrep 
resenting that fact. 

Out back of the tavern, Severick admits that he is in fact a lieutenant in the 
Underground. He tells the heroes about the Underground and their goal to over 
throw the Mind Lords' rule over the Last Sea. He's a bit fuzzy about the exact means 
that the Underground plans to use to bring this dream into reality, and about just 
what the people of the Last Sea are going to do without the Mind Lords. But he 
knows that the lords are bad news and must be stopped. 

Severick reveals that the Underground knows the killer is Kosveret. They have sev 
eral eyewitnesses that are willing to testify to this fact, but none of them have been 
taken seriously by the lawkeepers or the general populace. 

One of the witnesses is the old man Severick was talking to in the tavern. His 
name is Jalshton, a man who's been sailing the Last Sea for the past fifty years. If 
asked, Jalshton is happy to relate his story. It's hard sometimes to understand what 
he's saying, what with his mostly toothless mouth and nearly unintelligible slurring, 
but characters who listen carefully will be able to pick out what he's saying. 

Jalshton's youngest son was killed by Kosveret while Jalshton was being held cap 
tive. He vows to do anything within his power to help the heroes bring the killer to 

justice. His story matches up exactly with that of the hero who was kidnapped by 

Kosveret during Part 1 of this adventure. This alone should lend credibility to the old 
man's story, but Severick also swears that he has at least six others of whom he 
knows personally that have similar stories. 

The old man is sure the killer is Kosveret and not an impostor. When he was a 
boy, Jalshton was an athletic and daring young man. He used to sail the sea alone 
on his sailboard, often going much farther out than anyone should by himself. One 
day, he happened upon the squark, the mighty beast of the Last Sea's depths. 

The squark tipped over Jalshton's sailboard and was about to make a feast of him 
when the boy was suddenly raised into the air by an unseen force. As the squark 
turned the youth's sailboard into toothpicks, Jalshton looked up to see Kosveret hov 
ering above him, a wide grin on his face. "A sad world it would be," he said as he 

left the boy safe and dry on the shore, ''if every daredevil died young." 

Embarrassed by his foolhardiness and sure that no one would ever believe his 
miraculous story, Jalshton kept the event to himself, telling no one. When he was 
captured by Kosveret fifty years later, the elf said to him, "Some daredevils, it seems, 
live longer than others." 

Jalshton is certain that this proves it had to be the Mind Lord who killed his son 
and not some impostor. Severick is quick to point out that someone could easily 
have probed Jalshton's mind to learn the details of such a story and used it to add to 
the illusion that the creature responsible for the murders was Kosveret. Regardless of 
his willingness to play devil's advocate, Severick clearly believes the old man is cor 
rect. The Underground lieutenant needs some help proving his claims, though. That's 
where the adventurers come in. Severick tells them that he believes Kosveret is hid 
ing out somewhere on the Lonely Butte. 

If the characters have already talked to the lawkeepers, they may ask if the mad 
psionicist could be in Blufftown. Severick will swear up and down that this is impos 
sible. The Underground has many contacts in Blufftown through the owner of one of 
the two taverns there: Sitko. 

Severick is unaware that Sitko is actually the leader of the Underground, and this 
is intentionally so. Sitko trusts no one, least of all a loud-mouth like Severick. 

By the end of this encounter the adventurers ought to be fairly sure that Kosveret 
(or someone doing an excellent impersonation of him) is the person they're looking 
for. Finding him, however, is another matter entirely, particularly considering the 
conflicting information they're being given by the different parties with whom they 
are talking. 


15 




Encounter Statistics 

Severick (Underground Lieutenant) 

Human male psionicist (5th level): AC 8 (leather); MV 12; hp 21; THACO 18 (short 
sword); #AT 1; Dmg 1d6 (short sword); SZ M (5'4" tall); ML Steady (11); AL LN 
Personality: Brash, devious, impulsive 
Special equipment: None 
Psionics Summary: 

PSPs: 34 

Psionic attacks: Ego whip, mind thrust, psionic blast 
Psionic defenses: Mental barrier, mind block, thought shield 
Psionic powers: Control light, deflect, detonate, domination, inflict pain, pho 
bia amplification, stasis field, telekinesis, truthear 
Player's Option: #AT: 1, MTHACO: 16, MAC: 8 

Jalshton (Elderly Sailor) 

Human male fighter (2nd level): AC 10 (none); MV 12; hp 11; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1d4-1 (bone dagger); SZ M (5 feet tall); ML Average (9); AL CN 
Personality: Garrulous, addlepated, vengeful 
Special equipment: None 

Blufftown 

Blufftown is a rugged place in which the dregs of the Last Sea's many societies can 
find a home. There are no laws on the Lonely Butte, and the only justice than one 
can expect is the kind a man can carve for himself with the edge of a sword. It's 
just the kind of place where adventurers can find whatever sort of trouble that 
they're looking for. 

There are two inns in Blufftown (the only two buildings in the entire town): 
Ordean's and Sitko's. The proprietor of Sitko's is secretly the elusive leader of the 
Underground, and his place is a haven for those who wish to overthrow the govern 
ment of Saragar. Ordean's, on the other hand, is where those who have less politi 
cally motivated nasty streaks tend to make their home. 

No one in Sitko's knows much about the killings, although most of the patrons 
believe Kosveret is behind them. In their way of thinking, it was only a matter of 
time before the Mind Lords decided that the best way to handle the Underground 
was to kill them all off. 

It's true that some of the victims were members of the Underground, but hardly 
all of them. However, because of the secretive and cellular nature of the revolution 
ary group, it is conceivable that each of the victims was somehow connected to the 
Underground. Since many Undergrounders are paranoid (often rightfully so, it must 
be admitted), this theory has many supporters at Sitko's. 

In any case, no one at Sitko's knows anything more about the killings than that 
they have happened and that Kosveret is likely involved. If the adventurers are 
smart, though, they'll check out Ordean's, where they'll find a solid lead as to the 
rogue Mind Lord's current location. 

The DM will want to refer to the Mind Lords of the Last Sea sourcebook for fur 
ther information on Blufftown and its inhabitants. This encounter starts with the 
characters being hauled up into Blufftown via the elevator's basket. Read aloud or 
paraphrase the following: 

You can taste the salt in the wind as the creaking wicker basket drags you out of 
the water and up the jagged cliff face, swinging back and forth gently, occasionally 
coming precariously close to scraping against the rocks. Deep gashes in the side of 
the basket offer proof of where this has happened before. 

Blufftown is literally a hole in the wall, and as you get closer and closer to that 
hole, the lift suddenly creaks and then comes to a stop. 

In one of its periodic fits of incompetence, the obsidian orb in charge of operat- 


16 



ing the lift has malfunctioned. It's up to the heroes to find a way off the thing before 
it decides to let go entirely, plunging the basket into the water 40 feet below. The 
basket isn't watertight, and it will sink rapidly if it falls into the water. Characters 
who cannot swim are then in for a real problem. 

The heroes have 3d4 rounds before the orb holding the basket decides to give 
way. If the characters are smart, they'll take any method that can get them up to 
Blufftown (or down to the boat from which they've just left) before their time is up. 
Adventurers who are strong enough can try climbing up the ropes that haul the bas 
ket up and down. Or perhaps they can swing the basket back and forth enough so 
that they can reach the nearby wall and climb up it instead. This has the benefit of 
allowing many of the characters to exit the basket at once as opposed to climbing 
up the rope one at a time. 

As soon as the lift halts, a crowd will form at the lift's landing, out of morbid 
curiosity. For the most part, the adventurers can expect no help from these despera 
does. Few of them believe in sticking their neck out for others. 

Sitko is one exception to this rule. After 1d6 rounds, Sitko will arrive at the lift 
landing with a coil of rope. Fie will throw one end down to the heroes and per 
suade some of the patrons of his inn to give him a hand hauling them up. The cus 
tomers will moan and groan, but they'll comply with Sitko's wishes. After all, with 
out his good will, they might be forced to lodge at Ordean's instead. 

Assuming the adventurers eventually make it up to Blufftown one way or anoth 
er, Sitko invites them to his tavern for a drink to calm their nerves. The first round is 
on him. 

If the heroes have already been approached by the Underground, Sitko identifies 
them by the description that Severick has put out on the Underground telegraph, a 
means by which Undergrounders that know each other can rapidly disseminate 
information via a telepathic net. Otherwise, Sitko is in the dark as to who they are. 

In any case, Sitko knows that most Undergrounders are convinced that Kosveret 

is the killer, but he's not so sure. In a society populated by psionicists, it's all too 

easy to frame someone for a crime. If it turns out that Kosveret is behind the slay 
ings, Sitko plans to finally reveal himself as the head of the Underground and lead 
the revolution against the Mind Lords. Fie is not ready to do this without proof, 
though, as he knows it would be nearly impossible to garner enough public support 
otherwise. 

If the heroes inquire about the killings, Sitko is of little help. Fie does know that 

the storm giants on the Lonely Butte have suffered some losses lately, and he offers 

that information. As powerful as these creatures are, he says, perhaps they have 
some special knowledge of what has happened and who is behind the murders. 

Although Sitko has had good relations with the storm giants in the past, he has 
heard their mourning cries echoing out over the Last Sea for the last three nights, 
and he is afraid to venture topside to investigate what has happened. Flowever, he 
is more than happy to send the adventurers off as a kind of advance scouting force 
to determine why the giants are in such obvious pain. 

Thorough adventurers may decide to check out Ordean's as well. There they find 
a much less welcome reception. Ordean and his customers spend most of their 
time looking for trouble, and the heroes are fresh meat for their ravenous appetites. 
First off, they tease the adventurers mercilessly for getting caught in the lift and for 
the way that they got themselves out (if in fact they were graceless in their 
attempts). 

If the razzing fails to get the PCs' collective ire, one burly pirate steps up to them 
and tries to pick a fight. Fie isn't willing to take no for an answer. He won't throw 
the first punch if he can help it (mostly because Ordean's policy is to have those 
who start the actual fight pay for any damages). 

If the heroes finally respond to the pirate's taunts, suddenly everyone else in the 
room (with two notable exceptions: Ordean and a drunken dwarf) joins in. There 
are roughly twice as many patrons ready to fight as there are members in the party. 
The barfight continues until the heroes manage to knock out at least one opponent 
for each member of their party. By that time, the desire to fight goes out of the rest 
of the combatants; they retire to their respective corners, leaving the unconscious 
patrons on the floor to crawl away and lick their wounds later. 


17 




When the fight is over, Ordean tries to stick the heroes with a bill for any dam 
ages. If they pay up, he offers to buy them a round or two of drinks to show that 
there's no hard feelings. If they refuse, he demands that they leave. If they again 
refuse, the remainder of the inn's patrons rise to their feet again, ready to enforce the 
innkeeper's wishes. 

Later, even if the adventurers are no longer in Ordean's, the drunken dwarf 
approaches them with a tale he insists they hear. He was part of a work detail of 
dwarves that carved out a secret room in the cliff wall behind the Big Falls. The job 
was commissioned by Kosveret himself. Once it was completed, the dwarves were 
paid off in blood-that is, Kosveret killed each of them off, one by one, all save this 
dwarf. 

The dwarf, a sly creature by the name of Grantuo, managed to sneak off, escaping 
the Mind Lord's wrath. He made his way to Blufftown, figuring it was the only place 
in the entire region where he could find safety. Since then, he's been masking his 
misery in an ale-induced fog. He's hoping to find some way to get out the valley 
altogether, and he begs the adventurers to take him with them when they leave. 

As Grantuo finishes his tale, his eyes fly open wide, and the alcoholic stupor in 
which he has been drowning himself vanishes. He pitches forward suddenly with a 
horrible gag as his last words catch in his mouth. When the heroes turn him over, 
blood is flowing freely from his nose. A thorough examination reveals that Grantuo's 
brain is gone. 

By the end of this encounter, the heroes should have a good idea where Kosveret's 
hideout is. If they fail to run into Grantuo in Blufftown, they can always stumble 
across him elsewhere-such as at the town of Kharzden, a mining community popu 
lated mostly by dwarves, if that's the direction the adventure takes. Likewise, adven 
turers who have some familiarity of the region may think to inquire at Kharzden any 
way, perhaps hoping to find some miner dwarves who might confirm rumors about 
Kosveret's new lair. See "In the Halls of Kharzden" (below) for how to handle this 
possibility. 


18 


























Encounter Statistics 


Sitko (Underground Leader) 

Human male psionicist (7th level): AC 7 (padded); MV 12; hp 34; THACO 17 (long 
sword); #AT 1; Dmg 1d8 (long sword); SZ M (6 feet tall); ML Fanatic (18); AL CG 
Personality: Loyal, charismatic, rebellious 
Special equipment: None 

Psionics Summary: 

PSPs: 52 

Psionic attacks: Ego whip, id insinuation, mind thrust, psionic blast 
Psionic defenses: Mental barrier, mind block, thought shield, tower of iron will 
Psionic powers: Alter features, complete healing, heightened senses, phase, 
probability manipulation, sensitivity to observation, superior invisibility, tele 
port, true sight, watcher's ward 
Player's Option: #AT: 3/2, MTHACO: 14, MAC: 7 

Ordean (Innkeeper) 

Human male fighter (6th level): AC 5 (chain); MV 12; hp 40; THACO 15; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1d8+1 (long sword +1), 1d4+2 (heavy crossbow of speed); SZ M (57" tall); ML 
Steady (11); AL N 

Personality: Untrustworthy, bigoted, rough 

Special equipment: Long sword +1, heavy crossbow of speed 

Bar Patron 

Human male fighter (2nd level): AC 10 (none); MV 12; hp 9; THACO 19 (knife); #AT 
1; Dmg 1d3 (knife); SZ M (6 feet tall); ML Average (9); AL N; XP 35 
Personality: Abrasive 
Special equipment: None 



Storm Giants 


The storm giant village atop the Lonely Butte is in mourning. Two of their number 
have recently been killed, their brains taken away by Kosveret for use in his arcane 
plans. Due to this, they are extremely suspicious of outsiders at this point, even 
more so than they usually are. 

If the heroes are brave enough, though, and strong enough, they may be able to 
find a way to discuss Kosveret's attack with the surviving members of the tribe, if 
they succeed in this, they will gain a powerful set of allies. 

Of course, getting to the storm giant village is not easy. First the adventurers have 
to get to the top of the butte. The most straightforward way of doing so is by taking 
the lift up the side of the waterfall that spills into Blufftown. After their experience in 
the other lift, the heroes may be wary of getting into such a contraption again, but 
unless they can concoct another solution to this problem, the second lift may be 
their only route into the jungle waiting above. 

Once atop the butte, the heroes must struggle their way across the place's verdant 
surface. Characters that have always had a clear, cloudless sky to guide themselves 
by may find themselves lost under the thick, unbroken canopy of the trees that cover 
the butte like a moss on a log (something else the heroes are unlikely to be familiar 
with). 

This is a perfect time for a random encounter or two. There are several creatures 
that live on the butte whose ancestors were trapped here at the end of the Green 
Age. Their like exists nowhere else on the entire planet, and they are bound to seem 
strange and wondrous to people from the Tyr region or anywhere else outside of the 
valley of the Last Sea. 

Jhoot, the head of the rapidly dwindling storm giant family, is a pleasant and intel 
ligent sort of giant. Considering the relative intelligence of most other giants on the 
planet, this may be a shock for the heroes. Jhoot's years have brought him hard-won 
wisdom, and he normally keeps a tight reign on the other members of the tribe. 

The recent killings have made matters difficult, though. The younger members of 


19 


the family, most notably two youths named Krander and Branto, are itching to break 
free of their de facto island prison. They dream of hunting down and taking 
vengeance on the creature that killed their parents (Kosveret's victims were husband 
and wife). They evaluate all outsiders by two criteria determined entirely by their 
thirst for revenge: were the people involved in the killing? Or can they help the 
young giants in their quest? 

Once the adventurers have been wandering around the Lonely Butte for long 
enough and you've determined that they are finally approaching the storm giant vil 
lage, read the following aloud: 

/As you struggle through the jungle undergrowth, clearing the path before you 
with your weapons, you curse the plants and the water in a way that earlier that 
day you would have never thought possible. The greenery all about you and 
underfoot does nothing but get in your way so much that you almost find your 
selves longing for an open desert to pad across. The air itself is so thick with water 
that you feel like you could almost drink from a passing breeze-if any such wind 

could ever manage to penetrate the thick trees or even the dead air. 

Of course, although the air is not moving, it is hardly still. The cries and calls of 
dozens of strange animals fill the air, along with those of the colorfully feathered 
birds that flit to and fro over your heads. Occasionally the scream of a gigantic 
bird splits the air from high above the canopy, far out of sight, and shivers run up 

and down your spines despite the oppressiveness of the jungle heat. 

Suddenly, a mammoth creature leaps upon you from either side of the rough 
trail-if it could be so generously called that. Although they remind you of the 
giants you've seen elsewhere on Athas, they appear more civilized and regal - 
hardly savage at all. They wear huge, rough-made tunics, belted at the waist, and 
their eyes gleams with intelligence. Still, they each have an extremely well-made 
and sharp-looking, mammoth two-handed sword leveled directly at you. 

"Who goes there?" the one to your right rumbles lowly yet distinctly. You know 
by the fiery look in the creature's dinner-plate eyes that upon this answer may 
depend your very lives. 

Krander and Branto are out patrolling the Lonely Butte, hoping to find some sort 
of clues as to who killed their parents and where they might be found. They are 
hampered by their inability to leave the island for fear of immediate repercussions 
from the Mind Lords, but they have been discussing between themselves attempting 
just such a feat. 

Normally young storm giants such as these wouldn't have a chance of catching 
anyone unawares, but the heroes have been making a lot of noise stumbling through 
the unfamiliar terrain. The duo heard the adventurers coming from a long way off, 
and they have been lying in wait for them for the past half-hour, hoping that the 
intruders would come this way. 

Now that they've got the heroes where they want them, Krander and Branto aren't 
really too sure what to do with them. At first, they poke their swords at them and 
talk rough and aggressive, trying to provoke a fight. If the heroes take the bait, then 
the two young giants do battle with them. If it becomes apparent that the heroes are 
too strong for them, Krander and Branto retreat toward the village, sounding the gen 
eral alarm, convinced that they have found their parents' killers. 

If, as is probably more likely, the two giants find the heroes incapable of standing 
against them in armed conflict, they stand down and lower their swords, laughing at 
themselves for thinking for even a moment that such people could have harmed two 
giants as powerful as their parents. In this case, they still want to talk to these out 
siders. Criker and his pirates have not been around since the two giants were mur 
dered, and Sitko has been afraid to set foot on the butte. As such, the giants have 
had no news from off the butte for over a week. 

The storm giants had heard some rumors about the killings over the past couple 
months, but like most rumors from Saragar, they had considered them an external 
matter, nothing for them to be concerned about. Too late, they realized that what 
they don't know about actually can hurt them. They are eager now to learn more 
about what's happening without leaving the Lonely Butte, to which they have long 
since been banished. 


20 



Unfortunately, they don't know the identity of the killer or his location. There are 
some among the giants (Jhoot included) who believe that one of the Mind Lords is 
behind the slayings (who else would have such power to commit so heinous a crime 
with so much ease and so little compunction?), but no one has any solid proof. 
Without this, the giants are unwilling to break their covenant with the Mind Lords. 
They certainly will not do so on the word of a band of unknown adventurers, no 
matter how honest they may seem, nor how heartfelt their plight may be. 

If the adventurers don't end up in a full-scale battle with the entire storm giant vil 
lage, they hopefully find themselves in a conversation with either Krander and 
Branto or (if the conflict actually escalates to include the entire village, or the two 
boys bring the heroes to their homes) Jhoot. 

If the heroes are honest with the storm giants, their kindness is reciprocated. When 
the adventurer reveal that they are after the same person that killed Karker and Briter 
(Krander and Branto's parents), every storm giant in the village vows to help them as 
much as they can. Unfortunately, this assistance is limited to the edges of the Lonely 
Butte. None are willing to break the ancient covenant that their ancestors made with 
the Mind Lords for fear of bringing the Mind Lords' wrath down on them all. 

Although it pains Krander and Branto to not be of more help, Jhoot very firmly 
reminds them of their delicate position. Still, Krander and Branto are more liberal in their 
interpretation of the covenant. When the heroes leave, they follow them from a distance. 

Once the adventurers leave the butte, Krander and Branto climb down the side of 
the butte and slip into the sea (perceptive heroes may spot them doing this-they are 
not quite as sneaky as they would like to believe). Using their innate water breathing 
ability, they follow the heroes around the Last Sea as well as they can. They refuse to 
cross over to the shores of the Last Sea at any time, though. The covenant's language 
permits the storm giants to swim the Last Sea for purposes of bathing and fishing, but 
under no circumstances can they actually set foot onto its beaches. 

Note that Jhoot is a 9th-level priest. He has the power to raise dead. He would 
have used this spell on Karker and Briter, but for the lack of their brains. If the 
adventurers recover the two storm giants' missing cerebrums, they can count on hav 
ing made a powerful group of friends. 

At the end of this encounter, the heroes should either have a number of bruises, or 
they have made some powerful friends (or perhaps both). In the event that the party 
ends up in some kind of trouble within the boundary of the waters of the Last Sea, 
Krander and Branto will be available to help those to whom they have decided to 
lend aid. This assistance could come in particularly helpful in the encounters below. 

Even if the heroes fail to befriend the giants, Krander and Branto will likely follow 
them off the butte, hoping to learn more about them and from them. If the adventur 
ers land in some sort of trouble, though, there is no way to be sure who the giants 
will side with. 

Encounter Statistics 

Krander and Branto 

Young storm giants: AC 0 (none); MV 15, Sw 15; HD 16+4; hp 112 (Krander) and 
103 (Branto); THACO 5; #AT 1; Dmg 1 dl0 (fist), 3d10+11 (huge two-handed sword), 
3d6 (massive composite bow); SA control weather, levitate (up to 1,600 pounds 
twice/day); SD immune to electricity and lightning, catch large missiles (65% 
chance), water breathing, may move/attack/cast magic underwater with no penalty; 
SZ H (24 feet tall); ML Fanatic (18); AL CG; XP 7,000 
Personality: Friendly, curious, distraught 
Special equipment: None 


Jhoot 

Storm giant (9th-level priest): AC 0 (none); MV 15, Sw 15; HD 19+7; hp 135; 
THACO 3; #AT 1; Dmg 1 dl0 (fist), 3d10+11 (huge two-handed scimitar of 
wounding); SA control weather, levitate (up to 1,600 pounds twice/day), call light 
ning (3 times/day, Dmg: 15d8 each), lightning bolt (once/day, Dmg: 15d6), control 
winds, weather summoning (once/day); SD immune to electricity and lightning, 
catch large missiles (65% chance), water breathing, may move/attack/cast magic 


21 



underwater with no penalty; SZ H (26 feet tall); ML Fanatic (18); AL CG; XP 17,000 
Personality: Wise, cautious 

Special equipment: Giant two-handed scimitar of wounding 
Spells (4/4/3/2/1): 1st- animal friendship, cure light wounds (x2), pass without 
trace, purify food and drink; 2nd- goodberry, messenger, obscurement, silence 
15-foot radius, speak with animals; 3rd- plant growth, snare, spike growth; 

4th- cure serious wounds, neutralize poison; 5th- raise dead 

Lizard Men 

Even the lizard men have suffered at Kosveret's hands. The murders have caused the 
general level of paranoia that exists in the lizard man society to increase to nearly 
unheard-of heights. The frequency of patrols of lizard men has been upped around 
Undertown, and special units have been sent ranging far and wide to see if they can 
discover who is behind the killings and why. 

In Undertown (Nesthaven as the lizard men call it), theories as to who might be 
behind the grisly killings range from the Mind Lords themselves to minions of a 
long-forgotten sorcerer-king returned to finally finish the genocidal mission he failed 
to complete so many millennia ago. More prosaic minds have focused firmly on 
possibilities closer to hand. 

Xhenrid, for one, is convinced that King Nelyrox is behind the murders. To her mind, 
his highness is obviously setting her up to take responsibility for these horrible killings. 

Nelyrox is, of course, blissfully unaware of the machinations turning in Xhenrid's 
mind. His only concern is to find out who is behind the deaths and to stop the 
attacks from happening again-permanently. 

Since most parties of adventurers do not have the ability or even the desire to trav 
el to Undertown, the only chance they have of running into any lizard men is if they 
stumble into a patrol along the shores of the Last Sea. Try running this encounter 
sometime when the group is traveling along the shores of the Last Sea. 



22 












While the heroes are traveling along Marnita's edge, whether by foot or in a boat, 
read aloud or paraphrase the following: 

It's another perfect day in the valley of the Last Sea. The sun is shining brightly, 
but the edge is taken off the harshness of its rays by the thickness of the air and the 
fluffy white clouds that scud slowly across the sky. Seagulls, as the natives call 
these strange white birds, circle high overhead, their keening calls beckoning you 
closer to the center of the sea. 

If you were not here for business instead of pleasure, this would certainly seem 
like paradise. As it is, it's hard sometimes to concentrate on the task at hand. But 
then the bloodied face of your murdered friend comes back to your mind unbid 
den, and you push on. 

/Is you move along the shoreline, your train of thought is viciously derailed by 
the sudden splashing noise. You turn to look at the shore, thinking perhaps you'll 
have a chance to spot more of those magnificent dolphins that you've seen earlier, 
playing in the surf. Instead, you spy a well-armed group of scaly humanoids, each 
bringing the nasty-looking points of a trident to bear upon your chests. 

The one in the center of the group speaks as the color of their scales beings to 
mutate from its current sea blue to show red, warlike markings across their faces 
and flanks. "Outsiders are no longer welcome near our lands. Hold, or we will run 
you through!" 

The lizard man patrol consists of ten lizard men, plus a patrol leader named Sleub 
and a shaman named Jusky. They are part of King Nelyrox's new task force assigned 
to sealing the borders of the lizard man kingdom. At his direction, the patrols are 
ranging further than ever before, far beyond his land's actual borders. The patrols are 
to take a more aggressive stance than before. No longer can they afford to try to sim 
ply protect their people. Now they must actively search out danger and extinguish it. 

Sleub is a reasonable reptilian, but he does have some ambitions. He dreams of 
being the leader of the patrol that brings in the killers that they have been searching 
for these past weeks. Like many of the other patrols, Sleub's group has taken to 
harassing fishing boats that pass too closely to the kingdom's borders, as well as any 
one strolling along the shore. 

Most people in this area get around in boats, and anyone who chooses to walk or 
ride instead is cause for suspicion. Only the lawkeepers are immune to being interrogat 
ed by the lizard man patrols, and only then because of the power that they represent. 

The lizard men are almost entirely unwilling to consider the fact that one of the 
Mind Lords might be behind the killings. After all, without the Mind Lords' assis 
tance, none of them would have survived this long in the first place. They are entire 
ly loyal to their de facto rulers from beyond the sea. 

If the heroes proclaim the guilt of Kosveret, they'd better be prepared to back it up 
with some solid proof. The testimony of one humanoid really won't be enough. 
Chances are that the lizard men won't believe a word the airbreathers tell them. If 
the adventurers get abusive about it, then the lizards will likely decide to give them 
a good beating to drive home the fact that they side with the Mind Lords. 

If the heroes keep an open mind, Sleub relates to them just what has happened in 

the depth of Undertown. Seven different lizard men have been killed in seven differ 
ent attacks. There have been no witnesses, and in one case there was no way in or 
out of the murder scene. Besides this, the only thing that the killings have in com 
mon is the fact that each victim apparently died from the sudden lack of a brain. 

If the adventurers reveal that they know more about what's going on than Sleub 
does, the lizard sees this as his big chance to make a name for himself in lizard man 
society. He orders Jusky to cast water breathing on the party that they can be brought 
down in to Nesthaven for an audience with the king. Before he does so, Jusky whis 
tles, and an Athasian dolphin breached the surf. Jusky jabbers with the creature in the 
lizard man language for a moment, and the dolphin then turns and swims off. 

Twenty minutes later, King Nelyrox appears off in the distance, riding on the back 

of the dolphin. As he slides from the creature's back and swims the last few yards in, 

the other lizard men all fall to one knee. His mighty trident the only badge of his 
office, but he radiates a reptilian confidence and power so strong that even a mam 
malian humanoid can perceive it. 


23 



As Nelyrox steps to the shore, he bids the others to rise. He then looks to Jusky for 
an evaluation of these people. Jusky has already cast a detect evil on the people, and 
if the results had been positive, he would hardly have bid his king to arrive alone to 
meet such danger. 

The king pardons Sleub and his men, ordering them to stand off a ways so that he 
may converse with the outlanders. When Nelyrox has privacy, he reveals that his advi 
sor, a noted psionicist named Mobji, has come up with a theory for what is going on. 

First, the king notes that he is aware that Kosveret is behind the killings. He has 
been unwilling to release this information to his people for fear of the riotous reper 
cussions that could ensue. Second, Nelyrox notes that Mobji and Kosveret have met 
on several occasions and, although the reptiles do not worship the Mind Lords in the 
manner that the citizens of Saragar do, Mobji has made it his life's pursuit to study 
the Mind Lords so that he may better understand them and their people. 

Nelyrox then relates the story of the nocturnal visitor Marneet received on that 
fateful night so long ago. He postulates that if this visitor had never encountered 
Marneet, the Mind Lords might never have come into power and the Last Sea would 
never have been preserved. It is Mobji's theory, Nelyrox reveals, that Kosveret aims 
to somehow intervene so that Marneet will ignore this visit as some sort of prank. 

This would be the greatest joke that the jokester god could play on his people, and it 
would paradoxically result in the end of even his own godhood. 

Of course, this is only just a theory, and one that Nelyrox is loathe to repeat too 
often. If Kosveret is in fact innocent, the lizard king has likely signed his own death 
warrant for talking so loosely about the mad elf. But these are desperate times, and 
so it seems that Nelyrox is finally willing to take the necessary desperate measures. 

The fact that the heroes are positive that Kosveret is the killer (by this point, they 
may well have corroborated this theory through sources from outside their own 
party), makes Nelyrox feel a lot easier about bringing up Mobji's "crackpot" theory. 

In any case, the lizard king pledges to aid the adventurers in any way he can to 
solve this mystery, as long as it does not involve unseemly danger for his troops. 

They can make regular progress reports by talking with the Athasian dolphins. 

They've lost some of their own to this killer, and they're being extremely cooperative 
with the lizard men until the murderer is caught. With that, he bids the party 
farewell until they meet again. 

At the end of this encounter, the adventurers may have a better idea of just what it 
is that Kosveret is up to. If they haven't annoyed the lizard men too much, they 
might also have gained some powerful, though reluctant, allies. After this encounter, 
the heroes should be chomping at the bit to find Kosveret. If what the lizard king has 
told them is true, then more than just their friend's life could be at stake. It could 
well be the very existence of the Last Sea itself. 

Encounter Statistics 

Lizard Men 

Patrol troop (10): AC 5 (scales); MV 9, Sw 15; HD 2+1; hp 12; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1d6+1 (trident); SZ M (7 feet tall); ML Elite (14); AL N; XP 65 
Personality: Distant, noble 
Special equipment: None 


Sleub 

Lizard man: AC 5 (scales); MV 9, Sw 15; HD 2+1; hp 17; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 

1d6+1 (trident); SZ M (7 feet tall); ML elite (14); AL N; XP 65 

Personality: Noble, ambitious 
Special equipment: None 

Jusky 

Lizard man shaman: AC 5 (scales); MV 9, Sw 15; HD 3; hp 20; THACO 19; #AT 1; 

Dmg 1d6+1 (trident); SZ M (7 feet tall); ML Elite (14); AL N; XP 175 

Personality: Noble, inquisitive 
Special equipment: Ring of water walking 

Spells (2/1): 1st- cure light wounds, detect evil; 2nd- speak with animals 


2 4 


Nelyrox 

Lizard king: AC 3 (scales); MV 12, Sw 18; HD 8; hp 60; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 
3d6+2 (great trident); SA skewer (if attack roll is 5 more than what is needed to hit, 
the great trident does double damage [minimum 15 points total]), wild talent; SZ L 
(8 feet tall); ML Champion (16); AL N; XP 975 
Personality: Friendly, noble, wise 

Special equipment: Ring of free action, ring of water walking 

Psionics Summary: 

PSPs: 50 

Psionic attacks: Ego whip, id insinuation, psychic crush 
Psionic defenses: Mind block, thought shield 
Psionic powers: Danger sense, phase 
Player's Option: #AT: 1, MTHACO: 17, MAC: 9 

In the Halls of Kharzden 

Of all of the different towns and societies that lie safe within the boundaries of the 
valley of the Last Sea, the one that has suffered most at the hands of Kosveret is that 
of Kharzden. In fact, the first of Kosveret's killings took place in Kharzden soon after 
the completion of the mad elf's new sanctum. After all, he was hardly willing to let 
anyone with knowledge of his secret headquarters live for long. 

Fortunately, Kosveret's madness has made him far from thorough. When he set out 
to murder all of the dwarves that carved out his new place, he missed one: Grantuo, a 
poor soul that now spends his days drowning his sorrows at Ordean's Inn in Blufftown. 

That loose end will be taken care of soon, if it hasn't been already (see "Blufftown"). 

Still, Kosveret failed to take into account that some of the dwarves that he had 
sworn to secrecy before they began excavating his place weren't as tight-lipped as 
they had promised him they would be. Grantuo's estranged wife Mranzta knows of 
the location of Kosveret's haven, and after the hobbyist miner went missing, she 
brought this information to Elakta, the dwarf queen. 

Elakta was extremely disturbed by this information. She has sought no counsel 
thus far, fearing more the potential for reprisals against her people than for her own 
life. As the number of killings across the land increases, though, her fear of whatever 
it is that Kosveret is planning grows stronger than her fear of the Mind Lord himself. 

Queen Elakta has considered contacting the Mind Lords herself, but if one of the 
self-appointed gods has gone murderously mad, who's to say that the others aren't 
already aware of it. Worse yet, they could actually be in on the killings themselves. 

As the heroes near the gates of Kharzden, read the following passage aloud: 

You round a bend in the trail you've been following through the foothills, and 
there they are: the gates to Kharzden. Although you've heard tales about them 
from the dwarves that live in the outskirts of the village that spills out from the 
gates of the underground town, little could prepare you for the actuality. The frame 
of the gates stands over twenty feet tall and is embossed with all sorts of carvings 
in bas relief that tell the story of the dwarves of Kharzden in a mixture of frozen 
majesty and tragedy, You notice that there are several bare spots on the frame, indi 
cating perhaps that this is a work in progress. 

Most amazingly, though, is that the frame sparkles like gold, and the gates them 
selves are highly polished steel. Your minds boggle at the wealth of a society that 
could spare such precious stuff in this sort of an almost ostentatious display of 
wealth. 

As you climb the last hundred yards up the trail, the five armored guards stand 
ing outside the gate heft their battle axes meaningfully. When you are within thirty 
yards, one of them, a burly creature with a magnificently wrought helm, steps forth 
and calls to you: "Halt, strangers. Who are you, and what is your business?" 

Normally, the gates of Kharzden (which are decorated with iron pyrite-fool's 
gold-and, upon further inspection, rusted open) stand staffed only by the most per 
functory of guards. With the recent murders, security has been stepped up, but to no 
avail. Kosveret comes and goes throughout as he pleases throughout the entire val- 


25 




ley, and far as it might be from Saragar, Kharzden is no exception to this rule. 

The sergeant of the gate is a dour dwarf named Clarstin. He has been charged 
with protecting his queen and her realm from outsiders, and as of yet, he has met 
with little success. He is aching to prove himself to his superiors and his fellows, and 
a party of adventurers coming up the path seems ready-made to his order. 

Clarstin treats the heroes skeptically and abusively, heaping scorn and derision on 
them. They are obviously outlanders, people to be trusted even less than the normal 
outsiders they often meet hailing from elsewhere in the valley. If and when the 
adventurers finally mention that they have some information about the killings that 
have been taking place in the rest of the valley, Clarstin stops cold. 

The dwarf sergeant suddenly switches his abuse from the heroes to the guards. 
"Don't just stand there," he bellows at one hapless dwarf. "Get word to the Queen!" 

As the messenger stamps off into the subterranean kingdom, Clarstin beckons the 
heroes into a foyer just inside the gate. He invites them to sit and offers them some food 
and drink and asks them to please be patient. Fifteen minutes pass, and the messenger 
returns. The queen has generously decided to grant the heroes an immediate audience. 

This sends a great deal of murmuring and muttering through the assembled 
dwarves (10 more have straggled in as support for the guards). Such speed is almost 
unknown in the dwarf government. Petitioners often have to wait hours or even days 
before receiving an answer as to whether or not Queen Elakta can fit them into her 
schedule, often sometime in the following week. 

Clarstin orders the stragglers to take over the guarding of the gate (just in case this is 
some kind of trap) while he and his four fellows escort the adventurers to the royal hall. 
With Clarstin and two dwarves in the lead and the other two bringing up the rear, the 
sergeant leads the whole party deep into the caverns beneath the Thunder Mountains. 

In the well-guarded royal chamber, Queen Elakta receives her guests. There are at 
least 20 well-armed dwarves there ready to give their lives to protect their queen. 
Some of these are fresh from the mines, still wearing the traditional bandannas 



26 







around their faces or necks. Once she is sure that they mean her no harm, Elakta 
bids her guards to stand off a bit so that she might converse freely with the strangers. 
She has no magical means for determining if the heroes might mean her harm. She 
is simply ruled by her own judgment. 

Elakta listens carefully to the heroes' tale of their search for Kosveret. When they 
are done, she reveals that she knows exactly where the elf Mind Lord currently 
resides. She has been reluctant to do anything with this knowledge for fear of the 
horrible reprisals that Kosveret (and possibly the other Mind Lords as well) would 
visit upon her people. Now that it seems that things are coming to a head, she sees 
that she has little choice. 

She tells the heroes that Kosveret resides in a cavern hollowed out behind the Big 
Falls, along the mighty course of the Big River to the northeast. They can get to it by 
taking the path to Rivertown and then climbing down and around the Big Falls. 
Getting through the falls to the cavern should be no problem for strong swimmers 
(which few of the heroes likely are). 

Although Elakta is reluctant to consign her people to the apparently fruitless task 
of standing up to a Mind Lord, mad or not, she is more than happy to provide each 
of the characters with as many metal weapons as they need. If she discovers that 
they have been lying, however, the dwarves will hunt them down and kill them 
while they sleep. 

These weapons are worth a king's ransom outside of the valley, and even inside 
the Last Sea region they would bring a handsome price. If the heroes succeed in 
their mission, they may keep the weapons. If they fail, the dwarves will hardly be 
able to collect them, but that's a risk that Elakta is willing to take. 

If the adventurers are in need of a guide to show them around the Last Sea, Elakta 
is reluctant to help them. Clarstin speaks up at this point, revealing that he has been 
listening in on the conversation. Braving his queen's wrath, he volunteers to show 
the outlanders around. One of his brothers was among those killed by Kosveret, and 
he is ready to do anything he can to see this monster stopped. 

By the end of this encounter, the heroes should know exactly where Kosveret is. If 
need be, they should even have a guide (Clarstin) to bring them right to where they 
need to be and to help fight when it becomes necessary. If the adventurers have 
already gone through the rest of the encounters in Part 2, then it's time to move on 
to "Part 3: Resolution." 

Before moving on, make sure that the heroes have played through all of "The 
Lawkeepers." Things may go disastrously in the next section. If they do (and you're 
so inclined), you need to have a way to patch things up. The only way to do this is 
to make sure that the Mind Lords are aware of the adventurers and their activities. 

Encounter Statistics 

Elakta 

Dwarf female fighter (4th level): AC 0 (chain mail +3 and shield +1); MV 6; hp 36; 
TPIACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1d6+3 (rod of lordly might as mace +2); SZ S (3'10" tall); 

ML Fanatic (18); AL LN 

Personality: Regal, compassionate, guarded 

Special equipment: Chain mail +3, rod of lordly might (45 charges), ring of 
spell turning, shield +1 

Clarstin 

Dwarf male fighter (7th level): AC 1 (chain mail +3 and shield); MV 6; hp 53; 

TPIACO 13; #AT 3/2; Dmg 1d8+4 (battle axe +2, plus Strength bonus); SZ S (4'5" 
tall); ML Fanatic (18); AL LN 

Personality: Boisterous, cautious but friendly to those he trusts 
Special Equipment: Battle axe +2, chain mail +3 

Guard 

Dwarf male/female fighters (3rd level; 35+): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); MV 6; hp 
16; TPIACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg 1d8 (battle axe); SZ S (4 feet tall); ML Very steady (13); 
AL LN; XP 120 


27 



PART 3: 


Resolution 


Eventually the heroes should figure out who's killing everyone and where he's hid 
ing. There are basically three avenues they can take from that point. 

First, they can ignore it all and run away. This is their option, but hardly a heroic 
one. If the adventurers seem to be opting in this direction, do your best to discour 
age them. Point out that their dead friend will never be returned to them without his 
brain, and the fact that the entire Last Sea might be destroyed by Kosveret's actions. 

If that doesn't do it, there's likely no hope, so send them on their way and let them 
deal with the consequences. 

Second, they can try to round up some help before taking on Kosveret. The only 
real problem with this is that the clock is ticking. If they take the time to sail to 
Saragar (or wherever) and back, they are wasting time that their dead friend can ill 
afford. Moreover, Kosveret has now has enough brains to attempt his journey into 
the past. He would like to gather some more to make things easier, but he's all set to 
try right now. 

Third, the adventurers can take the battle to Kosveret right away. This being the 
most heroic and daring path, many parties will take to it without prodding, fool 
hardily ignoring the fact that they are attempting to confront one of the most power 
ful people on the planet. But that's the stuff that legends are made of. 

Once they make the decision to go after Kosveret, the heroes still need to get into 
the Mind Lord's new lair. After that, they've got to find some way to stop him. Of 
course, if they succeed, they will precipitate the kind of disaster that the Mind Lords 
have stopped from affecting the Last Sea for so long. The desert will pour right in. 

Fortunately, Thesik has secretly been following the party around since their 
encounter with the lawkeepers. He's still unsure as to what Kosveret is up to, and 
he's willing to let the heroes act as his unknowing investigators. If the heroes stop 
Kosveret, Thesik steps in and takes Kosveret's place, traveling back into the past to 
give Marneet that fateful message he received so long ago. 

If the heroes fail, Thesik permits Kosveret to keep his date with fate. 

This final part to the adventure should be considered as the climactic act of a 
Greek tragedy. The DM should play it up as much as possible by emphasizing the 
dramatic. Constantly remind the heroes just how much is at stake for them personal 
ly and for the entire valley. 


28 


Kosveret is entirely insane. He laughs madly and bitterly much of the time, and 
little of what he says makes much sense, although he does have his moments of 
astonishing clarity. His image shifts constantly, moving through each of the Mind 
Lords' visages, as well as those of Marneet and all of those whose brains he has col 
lected, including that of the heroes' dead friend. 

Thesik, on the other hand, is cold, logical, and sad. He mourns for the loss of his 
friend's mind, particularly so since he can see the same long deterioration already 
affecting his dear wife Barani. Thesik knows that even he himself is not immune from 
the creeping darkness of total madness, but until the day comes that his mind is 
entirely gone, he struggles on to save his wife, his friend, and the Last Sea itself-for 
as long as he possibly can. 


Kosveret's Lair 


Getting into Kosveret's lair is not easy, located as it is behind the Big Falls. A character 
with the swimming proficiency (just about anyone in the valley of the Last Sea- 
dwarves included) can get into the cavern by making three consecutive proficiency 
rolls with a -3 penalty to each roll. They can make as many attempts as they like, but 
each failed attempt drains a point of Constitution that can only be recovered by an 
hour of full rest. Be careful of worn-out heroes drowning in the pool beneath the falls. 

Once one character get in, though, he can fasten a rope to a handy stalagmite and 
swim back through the falls to the shore. Even characters without the swimming profi 
ciency should now be able to get through the falls. All they need to do is make a 
Strength check to keep their grip on the rope as they pass beneath the thundering waters. 

When the characters manage to get through the falls and into Kosveret's lair, read 
the following aloud: 

As you break through the pounding waters , you find yourself in a brightly lit 
room. The adventurer that was kidnapped by the mad elf recognizes it instantly as 
the very same chamber to which he was spirited away while the Mind Lord imper 
sonated him. 

The place has recently been cut from the stone , a natural chamber enlarged by 
the dwarf workers from Kharzden who were some of the first to have their lives 
sacrificed to Kosveret's insane plan. Some tools still lie scatted along the walls. 

The room is a cube nearly 40 feet on each side. High in the wall above you is 
another hole in the cliff face over which the Big Falls run. A ledge shunts the water 
away from the chamber, but during the day , light spills in through the water, 
sparkling everywhere and lending the chamber a distinctly otherworldly feel. 

In the far right corner sits an obsidian orb on an intricately carved ivory 
pedestal. It seems almost to radiate power, although physically it is unremarkable. 

In the far left rests a gigantic bowl in which are stacked over a score of brains of 
all shapes and sizes. These range all the way from the easily identifiable humanoid 
organs all they way up to two tremendous ones which obviously belonged to the 
two murdered storm giants. 

As you enter the chamber, an image suddenly shimmers to life before you. It is a 
slender elf with delicate bones and long blond hair worn free, framing his pale 
countenance. The most notable thing about this creature is the madness so clearly 
dancing in his eyes. The one of you who was kidnapped earlier recognizes the vis 
age immediately and begins to shout, "It's him. It's him!" 

Kosveret recognizes the heroes immediately and demands to know how they dis 
covered his private chamber. He is bent on killing each one of them, but first he 
wants to learn as much as he can about these interlopers and how they found him. 

Smart heroes will keep the mad elf occupied for as long as they can until they can 
figure out some way to defeat him. After a while, though, Kosveret will become 
bored with their equivocating. At that point, he announces that he needs only one 
more brain to be able to perform his ritual, and he's decided that one of them has 
will have the honor of providing that vital organ. 

Kosveret then attacks whoever he perceives to be the most dangerous to his plans. 
If there is a spellcaster (especially a wizard) in the group, he goes after that person 








first. He attempts to beat them down psionically. If he succeeds, he then teleports 
that person's brain out of its body and begins his ritual, confident that the heroes are 
unable to stop him. 

Despite this, Kosveret has two obvious Achilles' heels. If the pile of brains can be 
destroyed (even just one of them), Kosveret will be unable to perform his ritual. This 
will only make him mad, though, as he'll then set about harvesting the rest of the 
adventurers' brains to replace the damaged one(s). 

Alternatively, the heroes can attack the obsidian orb itself. The orb is extremely tough, 
though. It can sustain 100 points of damage before being destroyed. If he was in his 
right mind, Kosveret would simply teleport the orb away when it became apparent it 
was in real danger. Since this is not the case, Kosveret stays his ground, even when 
pressed, convinced that he can defeat each of the heroes before they can harm him. 

If the orb is destroyed, Kosveret's spirit is released, and after nine millennia of 
watching over the Last Sea with his two comrades, the elf psionicist finally dies. 

If the Heroes Fail 

If the heroes fail to stop Kosveret's plan, he goes ahead with the ritual and travels 
back in time to that fateful night in Marneet's bedchamber. While there, he delivers 
the very message that he was trying to prevent Marneet from receiving, thus fulfilling 
his fate. History is unchanged. 

When Kosveret returns from the past, he finds Thesik waiting for him. Ignoring the 
dead, dying, or unconscious around them, Thesik enters a final battle with his friend 
who has become too dangerous to live. As Kosveret is still weak from his temporal 
journey, Thesik easily overcomes him, forcing the elf's image to disappear entirely. At 
the last moment, however, Thesik finds that he cannot end the existence of one who 
has been his companion for such an incredibly long period of time. 

Tears roll down Thesik's face as he glares at the obsidian orb that houses his 
friend's psyche. With but a thought, he teleports the orb and its pedestal back to its 


30 














resting place in the secret chamber beneath the palace at Saragar. Then he turns to 
the heroes and administers to their wounds as best he can. It is beyond Thesik's 
power to revive the dead, but he telepathically alerts the Shallatian healers to the 
heroes' plight before he follows Kosveret back to the eternally dark chamber that 
they share with Barani. 


If the Heroes Succeed 


If the adventurers actually manage to defeat Kosveret, they've got bigger troubles to 
come. Since Kosveret's message to Marneet was never delivered, Marneet never pro 
moted Thesik and Kosveret (and later Barani) so that they could manage the project 
that would allow them to peer into Marnita's future. 

Since the Mind Lords never foresaw the destruction that Rajaat and his 
Champions would visit upon Athas with their defiling magic, they never bothered to 
start up the program that allowed them to protect the Marnita from the ravaging of 
their world. In fact, the Last Sea, as it is known today, tragically never came to be. 

While the heroes are celebrating their victory, they may notice that the thunderous 
fall of the waterfall has ceased. Suddenly Thesik makes himself known. After allaying 
the adventurers' fears that he might be there to attack him, he points out the entrance 
to the chamber. There the heroes can see clearly down to the Last Sea, as the water 
fall is no longer there. In fact, the Last Sea itself is drying up and will soon disappear. 

Thesik explains to the heroes what they have done and that he can repair it with their 
help. Tapping the PSPs of any psionicists or wild talents in the party (this should be all 
of them) and adding that power to his own, Thesik can reach back into the past to visit 
Marneet and deliver the fateful message himself, posing as the mad Kosveret. Describe 
this scene to the heroes, letting them know that they are contributing to Thesik's power 
but that they are unable to actually have any effect on the visitation themselves. 

When Thesik and the adventurers return to Kosveret's secret chamber, the waterfall 
is roaring again, and the Last Sea has been returned to its former splendor. Thesik 
thanks the heroes for all that they have done to help preserve the Last Sea. If any of 
them are dead, he telepathically notifies the Shallatian healers as to their plight and 
then bids them farewell. If they are ever in need of a favor, they are permitted to 
come to him for help. They have his eternal gratitude. 

With that, he disappears, along with Kosveret's orb and its pedestal. 


Encounter Statistics 


A full description of Kosveret and Thesik can be found on pages 82 and 94 of the 
Mind Lords of the Last Sea sourcebook. 



Few of the people of the Last Sea will believe the heroes' story should they find the 
need to tell it to them, but those in power will understand what has happened, and 
they will appreciate it. Despite this, all of these people implicitly agree to take part 
in the polite fiction that the mysterious killer was apprehended by the Mind Lords 
with the help of the adventurers. Everything is finally back to normal now, and they 
see no need to rock the boat. 

The only exception to this are the members of the Underground, but since they've 
been spreading seditious rumors about the Mind Lords since their inception, few 
who are not with them already will believe their fanciful tale, no matter how true it 
might be. As proof that Kosveret was not the killer, they point out that the elf Mind 
Lord has recently been spotted around the city of Saragar, playing the role of the god 
of happiness to the hilt. 

Unknown to anyone, Thesik has taken on the responsibility of maintaining not 
only his own public image but Kosveret's as well As far as most people know, every 
thing is back to normal, and the brain-robbing killer will never plague the valley of 
the Last Sea again. 


31 




They take imagination, knowledge, and skill. These five AD&D game 
fundamentals are a "must-own"' for your adventuring party. 



AD&D(r) Player's Handbook 

It's the indispensable encyclopedia of adventure 
gaming, with everything players need to know: how to 
create characters, differences between races, mapping 
and combat rules, and more! 

TSR #2159 
Sug. Retail $25.00 

isbn 0-7869-0329 5 Character Record Sheets 

Quick! Your hero is face-to-face with a dragon... what 
will he do? For faster, more spontaneous play, record 
ability scores, possessions, background, and much 
more on these sheets! 

TSR #9264 
Sug. Retail S9.95 

DUNGEON MASTER(r) Guide 1SBN °- 88038_752 " 1 

The more versatile and knowledgeable the DM, the 
livelier the adventure! The DUNGEON MASTER 
Guide is your complete source of information on how 
to be the best leader of the game! 

TSR#2160 

Sug. Retail S20.00 

ISBN 0-7869-0328-7 

DUNGEON MASTER(r) Screen 

The easy-to-use charts of the DUNGEON MASTER 
Screen organize all the statistics and figures the DM 
must have to run a quality AD&D campaign. Includes a 

16-page mini-adventure. 

TSR #9263 
Sug. Retail $6.95 

MONSTROUS MANUAL(tm) isbn 0-88038-747-5 
The ultimate monster reference! Descriptions and full- 
color illustrations for over 600 monsters, including all 
the creatures from MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM* 
Volumes 1 and 2, and many more beasties. 

TSR #2140 

Sug. Retail $24.95 

ISBN 1-56076-619-0 


Available at book, game, and hobby stores everywhere! 




Advanced 

Dungeonsl^^S 0115 


Character Record 
Sheets 


.Advanced 

Dungeonsjyilra^orts 


DUNGEON MASTER 
Screen 

















Lower 


Abandonee! 

W a ter,-- L .. 

T awsrw 


Mam 

iquare 


Abandoned 


Lower C'ass 


B'f-ach 




Psionice Acade^M 










































Official Came Accessory 



Kosveret the Mad, one of the Triune Mind Lords, 


concocts a scheme to send himself back in time to 
destroy all that the Last Sea stands for in this 

adventure for 4 to 6 players! 

¦ ¦¦¦" 


J-M4X KN1'KIJ 



-i " A • AdvAmw Lluvr.fur-a A. DfejuiuKA and Due*. jtc rep.Fsl"rd Iroderafis tywrrcd by TSR. In*. 

Thu T&H. logo ii j irMh'rniirlt <'v"mil Jit TSP. hi, l'wr r T5*. !"ii.. AN rijjhl- ft*!*'**). In I(("• l.'.S. 



Mountains 


Gr&jalan' 


Csss-nsn* 


Town 


Watchterwer 


Waste 


Water 


aaltgra-ss 

rirfegr**s 


Waterfall 


.¦ >1 





































































ilw 


Slhallat 


Giants- 1 Town, 






. I I 1 • I V-- > " 

"SftgZ'SprZ. 


Huddleston 


'$'Z&X*>r 


















&fyertG^n 


West 

P^s 


Gubarto 


>"S. . 






















. 

3er MStin tains 


Undertown 







*1 ;.'i 






l-; r -1 ¦" r .' 


Mind Lord 


"- W TSS... Inc. All Ri^hbjt ftei^rvcd 


H-d-d-XXXOJOl 















• 9 .:. . 



Official Came Accessor^ 1 


THE WANDERER'S CHRONICLE 


Beyond the Scorched Plateau, across the Burning Plains, 
in the shadow of the Thunder Mountains, the largest 
body of water beneath the crimson sun sparkles like 
a desert mirage. But the place is real, for I have 
seen it. I felt the cool spray on my skin, tasted 
the salt mist on y lips. It is the Last Sea, a remnant 
of a long-lost age hidden far to the north of Tyr.... 

-From The Wanderer's Journal 


The Last Sea, a huge body of cool water, remains 
locked in time, a manifestation of the green Age 
that survives to the current Athasian era. Here, people 
live in safety and peace-as long as they follow the 
laws set forth by the ancient, immortal Mind Lords who 
rule over them. 


By Matt Porbeck 


Mind Lords of the Last Sea details the environs and societies 
living in a hidden valley hundreds of miles north of the Tyr 
Region. On the shores of the largest known body of water on 
Athas, the ancient city of Saragar rises like a temple to the 
Green Age, and the Triune Mind Lords hold sway over all 
with their powerful psionic abilities. 


iSK.Inc. 

201 Shi-riil.m Springs fltiwl 
Ukn Elpiwva 
Wl 311 *7 
U.i.V 


THtlM 
IJI>rhufcK IF"ri 
Oicrry llrnlinra 
Cambridge CBI 1LU 
l.nin-il Kinijilonn 

Seuil 

L.'.H, $2lUHt 
CAN $26.00 
UJt£!T,97 



This accessory is the second in a series of "Wanderer's 
Chronicles" that explores the new areas of Athas. It features: 


• A 96-page sourcebook that details the hidden valley, the 
Las Sea, and all the creatures and intelligent races that 
inhabit the region-as well as a comprehensive look at the 
Mind Lords and their great city, Saragar. This sourcebook 
also includes new monsters, new rules, and new equipment 
specific to this new region. 

• A 32-page adventure book that provides a ready-to-play 
adventure set in Saragar and around the Last Sea. 

• A full-color, poster-sized map of the Last Sea region 
complete with plenty of exciting new locations to explore. 


By the Last Sea, the danger is all in your mind.... 


AUYJW. til Ou'iCHM A DWGOVs im) 

50*1 A'V itgicIcft'H tradrirjrla&wnc-dli} T5H, Inc 
Hie TSS Inps :s a Lradtmari mrnrd hr TSH. In 
CUM T5R, Inc- Ai 'Hshu roarvHl. 

Made in Ihc UJLA. 




S2Q0Q> 







































