Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09112 WG 5 Mordenkainen's Fantastic Adventure"
See other formats
WG5 Approved for use with ADVANCED D&D(r) rules 9112 


Advanced Dun 3 eons^f)rAgons 


Fantasy World Adventure 

Mordenkainen's Fantastic Adventure 

by Robert J* Kuntz and Gary Gygax 
















Advanced Dungeons^ragons 

\VOR|X>0fOR^VHaWK 

Fantasy Word Adventure 


MordenkainerTs Fantastic Adventure 

by Robert J. Kuntz and Gary Gygax 



credits 


UBle of contents 


Editing: Frank Mentzer and 
Michael Dobson 

Graphic Design: Elizabeth Riedel 
Cover Art: Clyde Caldwell 
Illustrator: Jeff Easley 
Typographer: Betty Elmore 
Maps: Eric Nelson Shook 
Play testing: Gary Gygax, 

Eric Nelson Shook, 

Theron Q. Kuntz r and 
James F. Goodlellow 

Special Thanks to "Mordy and 
the gang"; may they soon 
adventure again! 

Distribuled to the book trade in the United State* by Ran 
dom Hnuwe T Inc,. and in Cumnlu by R a octant Hou"e of Can 
ada,, Ltd. Distributed ta ihe toy and hobby trade by regional 
distributors, Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR(UK) 
UtL 


advanced dungeons* dragons, ad&d. world of 

GREY HAWK. and PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION are 
registered trademarks owned by TSR. Inc. 

'Copyright ISMM E. Gary G^iX, All Rights Reserved. 


THU adventure is protected under the copyright laws of the 
Unilcd States of America, ary reproduction or olHct unau' 
i horned use of the material or artwork contained herein is 
prohibited w ithout the exprea* written permisaimi of TSR, 
Inc. 


TSR, Inc, 

POB 75S 
l^tke Geneva, 
W1 53147 


TSKjUKl Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Rnad 
Cambridge CB14AD 
United Kingdom 


special pRepace . 2 

intRoduction . 2 

Backq Round Por the dunqeon masteR . 3 

the adventupe Beqins. 4 

key to the piRst Level. 6 

key to the second LeveL.12 

key to the thiRO LeveL ..20 

appendix 1: maqic items. 25 

appendix 2: new monsteps.27 

append ix 3 : pRe-qeneRated . 30 



TSR, Inc. 


Printed in U.S.A. 


ISBN 0-88038-168-X 


9112 
















pecial pRefAce 


The module you are about to read contains 
the basis for one of the most difficult adven 
tures that my character, Mordenkainen the 
Mage, ever underwent. The characters and 
the events were slightly different from what is 
presented here; for, after some time, Rob 
Kuntz and I sat down together as co-DMs of 
the Greyhawk Campaign to revise and expand 
the scenario. You now have substantially what 
we created at that time. 

For those who wonder about the outcome 
of the actual adventure, Mordenkainen and 
Bigby the Magic-User initially went it alone. 
The terrible iron golem on the first level 
spelled petrifaction for Mordenkainen, and 
Bigby teleported out in great haste to bring 
reinforcements. With the aid of Yrag and Rig- 
gby, the monster was finally destroyed, and 
Mordenkainen was restored to flesh again. 


Thereafter, the quartet proceeded to investi 
gate the lower dungeon levels to see what 
they could discover With a bit of luck and a lot 
of hard work, they managed to dear out the 
whole place. Of course, they expended many 
potions and a wish or two in the process. 

Just to set the record straight, the statistics 
shown for the four are not entirely correct. 
Similarly, the magic items shown are not the 
ones that they actually took with them when 
adventuring in this dungeon. The information 
was changed for one principal reason-I still 
have all four of the characters interacting in 
the Greyhawk Campaign, and 1 even play one 
or another on occasion. The Citadel of Eight is 
a serious force in the events of the WORLD 
OF GREYHAWK(tm), and the four characters 
are amongst the eight principals of the for 
tress. 



ntRoPuction 


This dungeon was originally designed for 
the members of the Lake Geneva Tactical 
Studies Association (LGTSA) back in 1972- 
1973. Primarily, although not exclusively, I 
created my Castle, "The Ruins of El Raja 
Kye," from which this dungeon is derived, for 
Gary Gygax, who deserved an opportunity for 
some extensive play because of all the judging 
(in between all the writing) he had done for the 
players in his Greyhawk Campaign. These 
levels were originally adventured in by Gary's 
player characters: Mordenkainen the Mage, 
after whom this module is named, Yrag the 
Lord, Riggby the Patriarch, and Bigby the 
Wizard, and later by many others. All the 
characters mentioned above, except Yrag, 
were described in the AD&D(tm) Rogues Gal 
lery, a TSR games booklet. When Gary took 
me in as co-DM of the Greyhawk Campaign, 
these levels became part of that world. Since 
that time, this scenario has undergone little 
change, although the characters have been 
modified to ensure compatibility with the 
AD&D(tm) game system. 

This module is designed for four or more 
characters of at least 8th to 14th level. The 
four original characters of Gary Gygax are 
included as pre-generated characters for your 
use. If you elect to use other characters, be 
sure that such characters possess equal levels 
and corresponding spells and magic. 


The Dungeon Master should read and study 
the contents of this module carefully, for many 
new monsters, magic items, and encounters 
are included herein. 

The abbreviations appended below are used 
throughout this module: 


AC 


Armor Class 

MV 

r 

Move 

HD 

¦p= 

Hit Dice 

F 


Fighter 

hp 

E 

hit points 

MU 

¦ 

Magic-User 

#AT 


Number of 
Attacks 

C 


Cleric 

Dmg 


Damage 

T 


Thief 

SA 


Special 

Attack 

A 

w 

Assassin 

SD 


Special 

Defense 

S 

= 

Strength 

MR 


Magic 

Resistance 

1 

¦ 

Intelligence 

MS 


Move 

Silently 

W 

" 

Wisdom 

HS 

-± 

Hide in 
Shadows 

D 

" 

Dexterity 

HN 

m 

Hear Noise 

Con 

¦ 

Constitution 

CW 

£ 

Climb Walls 

Ch 

- 

Charisma 

DMG 

* 

Dungeon 

PH 

- 

Players 



Masters 

Guide 



Handbook 

MM 

* 

Monster 

Manual 





You will note that this is what is generally 
termed a "hack-and-slash" module. There is 
plenty of real thinking necessary, but the 
action is nearly non-stop, so the former term 
is not inaccurate. If you are interested in 
developing a bit more background for the sce 
nario to work it into the whole of your per 
sonal campaign, a little effort will suffice to 
accomplish the task. There are so many obvi 
ous reasons for regular characters to journey 
to the area that a listing would be superfluous. 
On the other hand, here is a chance for play 
ers with lower level characters to try' their 
hand at some "high level" play. 

Whatever approach you decide to take, Rob 
and 1 sincerely hope that you will enjoy this 
"Fantastic Adventure" as much as we have! 

Gary Gygax 


It is strongly recommended that those people 
wishing to play in this module read no further! 
Which is more fun: knowing every*thing in 
advance, or discovering the tricks t traps, and 
treasures as you adventure along? 

This is one of a continuing series of modules 
specifically related to the WORLD OF GREY 
HAWK 7 " Fantasy Game Setting. This scenario 
places the adventurers in the vicinity of 
Maure Castle , located on the WORLD OF 
GREYHAWK map at grid coordinates X3 86, 

Robert J. Kuntz 


2 




H I BackqRounO foR the 
, unqeon masteR 


Maure Castle has long been a "quiet insti 
gator'' of wonderment, adventure* and mys 
terious happenings in the Flanaess. The castle 
is located south and east of the Free City of 
Grey hawk, surrounded by an admixture of 
hills, sparse trees, and brush. Rivulets run 
down from the uplands of the Cairn Hills to 
form fens and bogs about the strange castle. It 
is a forlorn and forboding place. 

Legends tell little about the history of 
Maure Castle or of its reportedly strange 
inhabitants* What little is known is told by 
sages and adventurers to all those who would 
listen. Rumors about Maure Castle are always 
rife in the cities of Grey hawk and Hardby, 
although with so many in circulation it is often 
hard to tell which of them are true. 


Of late, a strange story concerning the cas 
tle has run rampant throughout the country 
side around Greyhawk and Hardby. Though 
widespread, this story has remained for the 
most part unchanged, although its originator 
is nowhere to be found, and therefore cannot 
substantiate its content. 

The story begins thus: An unknown and 
currently unbeatable adventurer descended 
into the depths of Maure Castle via a down 
ward slanting corridor that had been hidden by 
brambles and brush. Several smooth-hewn 
passages were discovered and briefly investi 
gated. One of them led to two large iron 
doors--doors without latch, lock, handle, or 
any other visible means of opening. The mys 
terious adventurer returned to the City of 


Greyhawk, spread his tale, and then disap 
peared without a trace. 

Several adventurous inhabitants of the 
Cairn Hills area have subsequently found the 
same passageways, but all have returned to 
say that the iron doors were indeed uno pen- 
able! 

Because of these mysterious discoveries, 
an influx of adventurers has been noted about 
the Greyhawk/Hardby area. Among them is 
one man, a powerful wizard, who, with his 
partners in adventure, deems this rumor 
interesting enough to warrant further investi 
gation .. , 









The 



OventuRe Begins 


Mordenkainen the Mage and his boon com 
panions, Yrag, Rigsby, and Bigby {see 
APPENDIX 3 for complete character infor 
mation) have been tempted to explore Maure 
Castle because of the widespread rumors con 
cerning the "unope liable" doors. Preferring 
not to attract attention, they have traveled 
from their abode, the Citadel of Eight, upon 
Mordenkainen T s carpet of flying. The party 
has encamped roughly a mile north of the cas- 
tie, Riggby has used the clerical spell Speak 
With Animals , and has been told the general 
direction and distance to the downward slant 
ing passage leading to the doors. The party 
decides to rest for the night and plans to pro 
ceed afresh the following morning. 

Encounters During the Night 

Yrag elects to stand guard during the night, 
for he is oftimes uncomfortable and cannot 
sleep before undertaking a dangerous adven 
ture. He will maintain a quiet and careful 
watch for the six hours remaining until day 
light, intently surveying the terrain compris 
ing the Maure Castle environs. 

DM: Roll ld6 each hour; consult the table 
and explanations that follow below if the roll is 
6 . 

Nighttime Encounters Table 

1 A passing owl or nightbird is heard. 

2 Torchlights can be seen to the south, 
heading east toward Maure Castle. 

3 A wild animal is heard moving near the 
encampment. 

4 A large winged shape passes in front of 
the moon, casting its shadow earth 
ward . 

5 A strange Coating light appears within 
10 yards of the camp. 

6 Strange grating noises can be dimly 
heard below ground and to the south. 

Encounter Explanations 

1 Owl or Nightbird: The bird flies 
above the encampment and emits a 
reverberating screech, Yrag is startled 
and all characters are awakened, 

2 Lights: Lights are seen heading east 
toward the castle at a steady pace. They 
are torch and lantern lights held by 2-5 
lepers (Level 0 humans) who roam the 
upper extremities of Maure Castle. 
These outcasts will deftly avoid the 


adventurers if approached, and have no 
useful information if they are somehow 
captured. 

3 Wild Animal: Heavy movement and 
occasional animal noises are heard at a 
distance of 10-60 yards from the camp. 
Roll ld4 and consult the listing below for 
animal type and statistics. If left undis 
turbed, the animal will leave the 
encampment area in 1-3 turns. 

1 Bear, BlackfAC 7, MV 12 * HD 3*3, 
hp 21, MT 3, D 1-3/1-3/1-6. SA 
hugs for 2-8) 

2 Boar, Wild (AC 7, MV 15", HD 3*3, 
hp 16, MT 1, D 3-12) 

3 Horse, Wild (AC 7, MV 24 ", HD 2, 
hp 12 t MT 1. Dmg 1-3) 

4 Wolverine (AC 5, MV 12*, HD 3 t 
hp 17, #AT 3, D 1 -4/1 -4/2-5, SA *4 
on "to hit" rolls, squirts musk) 

4 Winged Creature: Roll ld4 to deter 
mine the type of flyer: 1 = Wyvem, 2 - 
Dragon, 3 - Griffon, 4 * Roc. This mon 
ster is unconcerned with the characters 
unless accosted, but will fight if 
attacked. The flyer will be of neutral or 
evil alignment. 

5 Strange Light: This is a will-o-wisp 
(AC 8 f MV 18*. HD 9, hp 57, MT 1, 
Dmg 2-16, SD only affected by Protec 
tion From Evil, Magic Missile , and 
Maze spells) that has come upon the 
camp while dimmed and invisible. This 
creature will surprise Yrag or any others 
watching on a roll of 14 on ld6 since It 
seemingly pops into existence in a twin 
kling of an eye. It will attempt to lure all 
those that might follow toward the fens 
to the north (see the MAURE CASTLE 
ENVIRONS MAP), hoping to trap its 
prey there. If the attempt fails, it will 
attack. If confronted in force, it will 
retreat, never to return. If near death* it 
will reveal its treasure, described 
below, in exchange for its life. The box 
is hidden in a hollow log near the fens 
(see Key #T, MAURE CASTLE ENVI 
RONS MAP). 

Iron Box (1 cu. ft,): This box is 
rusted shut and must be pried open. It 
contains a scroll and four gems, 

Scroll of Create Food and R&ter and 
Find the Path . both at 20th level. (If 
Riggby uses the latter spell, there is a 
10% chance of spell failure because of 
the difference in levels). The scroll is 
signed 11 Ignis s Fatuus'L 


Gems: 1 amethyst (500 gp), 1 dia 
mond (1,000 gp), and 2 emeralds 
(5*000 gp each). 

6 Grating Noise: A sound like the grat 
ing of iron on stone seems to originate 
beneath the ground. If the characters 
investigate, they will discover that it 
issues from the slanting passage that 
leads down to the Unopenable Doors. 


The Next Morning 

The characters awaken at dawn and may 
then proceed on the next leg of their adven 
ture. Each carries provisions for a journey 
beneath the ground. 


Mordenkainen: 

Bigby: 

Riggby: 

Yrag: 


3 days' food and water 
3 days' food and water 

6 days' food and water 

7 days" food and water 


If direly pressed, Riggby can magically cre 
ate food and water, Mordenkainen or Bigby 
can teleport out and return with ample provi 
sions to sustain the whole party for 3 days' 
time. (If a teleport spell is used* the DM 
should ensure that the spell caster teleports 
to a well-known destination, and returns to a 
carefully studied locale), 


Entering the Level 

The party discovers a passage heading 
east, slanting down at about a 30 degree 
angle* based on the information gained by Rig 
gby. They proceed along this 8 ft. wide, 2,000 
to 3*000 ft. long passage for some time. 
Unless the characters map* they will not be 
able to tell how deep this passage goes. If the 
players map. increase the amount of time 
taken to cover the distance involved (PH, p. 
102) and increase the number of wandering 
monsters encountered. This may speed them 
up considerably! 

After a long while, the adventurers will 
come to a corridor branching north and south 
(refer to MAP OF THE FIRST LEVEL, Key 
X) The northern passage ends after a short 
distance. 

Characters who examine the floor here will 
note that there is an eight-pointed star chis 
eled into the stone. The points of the star are 
entirely cleaned out * as if something is sup 
posed to he set into them, The "something" 
which is meant to be inset is a set of eight 
metal triangles, each about the size of a half- 
lings hand and each of a different hue. In the 
Grey hawk Campaign, each plate was 
enchanted to a different plane, typically a spe 
cial demi-piane or similar place , Thus * a dou- 


4 









ble adventure was set up for each of the eight 
triangles. First came the search for the metal 
plaque r and then came the adventure of trav 
eling to the destination encoded on the 
plaque* exploring * and finding a way hack. 
When the whole WORLD OF GREYHAWK 
Campaign senes is eventually completed, the 
eight triangles will be placed therein, as will 
the destinations encoded upon them. Until 
such time, you may either 
pointed star as an enigma> or 
yourself the locations of the plates and their 
mysterious destinations. Then t either in this 
dungeon complex (or in another), your adven 
turers may find a special treasure-an expla 
nation of the power of the eight-pointed star 
and its metal pieces, and a clue as to where 
one of them might be found * Thereafter, you 
have a whole new set of adventures for your 
campaign!-EGG 


The passage south leads to the Unopenable 
Doors (Level #1, Key 01). DMs! Man your 
calling stations! Thus begins: 


Mordenkainen's Fantastic Adventure! 


5 






ey to the fiRst level 



General Notes 

All inhabitants of this dungeon complex are 
chaotic evil in alignment unless noted other 
wise. They will not take prisoners unless to 
sacrifice them to their deity on Level 3, The 
morale of the inhabitants varies, though they 
are more secure knowing that these are 
"their levels " 

The stonework on Level 1 is of ancient 
workmanship and typically made of granite* 
The floors are smooth-hewn and lightly cov 
ered with dust. Unless otherwise noted, cor 
ridor width remains a constant 10 ft. Height 
varies where noted but is usually 20 ft. Doors 
are of oak and metal-bound, or of bronze- 
wood, 7 ft. wide, 6 in. thick. They open 
inward unless specified otherwise. 

1. The 
Unopenable 
Doors 

These massive doors are each 4 ft* wide and 
made of 2 ft. thick iron. The doors and floor in 
front of them are scraped and scratched, as if 
someone had unsuccessfully tried to force 
them open. No handles, keyholes, latches, or 
hinges seem available for their expeditious 
opening. It seems that they open inward, but 
even this is debatable. 

These doors are of magical manufacture. 
No amount of pushing, pulling, shoving or 
ramming will open them, Opening" spells 
( Knock ; Passwalf et al.) have no effect upon 
them. Spells or items that cause damage will 
merely rebound and ricochet off these doors, 
and will do no harm to them. Items or spells 
that allow astral or ethereal travel will, how 
ever, provide passage. A wish will also cause 
the doors to open. If the Silver Key of Portals 
touches the doors, they will immediately 
swing inward to allow ingress. 

2. ROOM OF 

Misplaced Fortunes 

This room is empty and a bit dusty. Nine 2 ft. 
round by 2 ft. deep holes are aligned at perfect 
intervals about the periphery of the room. 
Characters who enter the room immediately 
feel a slight "tingling" sensation, and must 
make a saving throw vs. spells. Those who fail 
their saving throws will become misguided in 
their thoughts and actions for the next 1-6 
segments. The DM must roll ldlG for each 
affected character and consult the table 
below. Once the room's effects are com 


pleted. the characters lapse back to their nor 
mal selves, with (no doubt) great misgivings 
about their lost items. Each character may be 
affected only once by this room; no additional 
saving throws are required, whether or not 
the first save was made. 

Disposal Table 

1-5 The character drops one magical 
item of worth into the nearest hole. 

An item in hand will always be 
dropped first; if nothing magical is in 
hand, the most accessible item of 
worth will be dropped. 

6-9 The character drops 2 magical items 
of worth, as above. 

10 The character starts dropping all 
items of worth in descending order 
of value: magic, weapons, maps, 
food, water, torches, lanterns, 
clothes, etc.) at the rate of 1 item 
per segment. 

The holes will instantly contract to 
"crunch" all items disposed, with no saving 
throws allowed. The holes will open again 1 
round later, exposing the mangled items. The 
items will be forever useless. 

3. Fighter Frescoes 

This room is lit by four small candles placed 
just inside each door. The inside of each door 
is painted in reds, purples, and yellows, and 
depicts a fresco of a fighter in hill chainmail. 
Each fighter seems to be awaiting an onrush- 
ing enemy, although no enemies of any type 
are shown. 

If any candle's flame is extinguished, the 
fighter painted on the door behind it will come 
to life, jump down from its fresco, and attack 
as a hasted Champion {F 7, AC 2, MV 18 ", hp 
39, 40, 45, 50, #AT 2, D 4-11; S 16, D 16; 
longsword +2, normal chainmail and round 
shield). 

There are three ways that the candles may 
go out: 

1. characters may blow or snuff them out; 

2. each candle will go out on a roll of 1 -2 on 
ld6, one chance for each candle once 
every two rounds spent by any charac 
ter in the room; 

3. ail of the candles will automatically go 
out after one full turn spent by any 
character in the room. 

These fighters wifi fight to the death, pursuing 
the characters automatically, no matter where 
they attempt to flee. 


4. rug Room 


This room is lit by two continual light spells in 
the NB and SW comers. A variety of rugs are 
lying about, both flat and rolled up. 

No.Size Make Design Gp Wue 


L 6'x 3' silk 

2. 6 J x 4' silk 

3. 8'x 4' wool 

4. 9'x 5' silk/ 

cotton 

5. 9'x 6' silk/ 

linen 

6. S'xlB' cotton 

* Rug # 5 : This mg has 
stuck in it and the wo 
beside it. 


floral 1,150 
geometric 1*300 
floral/ 2,000 
geometric 
hunting 3,500 
scene 

geometric special* 

floral 2,600 

two-inch long golden pin 
d "AeieirT embroidered 


These mgs are the only valuable and possi 
bly dangerous items in this room. Rug #5 is 
effectively the largest variety of Hying carpet ; 
and can hold up to four persons while flying at 
a 24* movement rate. Its command word 
("Aeiem") will control it, although its move 
ment will seem a bit sluggish. One drastic dif 
ference exists between this carpet and the 
standard variety: the golden pin (worth 100 
gp) is magical, although the magic on it cannot 
be distinguished from the carpet s magic. This 
pin holds a captured air elemental (AC 2, MV 
36", HD 16, hp 72, #AT 1, Dmg 2-20, SA *1 
bonus to hit and *2 to damage when fighting in 
the air, whirlwind for 2-16). While a prisoner 
in the golden pin, Aeiem will obey those who 
speak his name, transporting them about as 
does a normal carpet of Hying , If the pin is 
removed, both it and the carpet will become 
forever non-magical, and Aeiem will escape. 
He will come forth from his century-long 
internment with great fury, attacking all those 
before him. If he should escape in the pres 
ence of Alley the Weaver (Key #5), he will 
direct all attacks against the Iflfeaver, for it was 
Arley who captured and imprisoned him* 


5. Weaver's Chamber 

This room is well-lit by continual light spells. 
Sitting on a stool before a table laden with 
doth is a fat, jovial-looking old man, rosy- 
cheeked and balding. To his left is a loom, with 
bolts of linen, wool, and silk spread before it. 
To his right is a spinning wheel. Next to this is 
a medium-sized box, piled high with many coL 
ors of spooled thread. The room radiates 
magic everywhere. 


6 




Arley the ^feaver is actually a polymorphed 
ogre mage (AC 4; MV 9"/IS"; HD 5+2; hp32; 
#AT 1; Dmg I-12; SA 1 /day charm person , 
sleep, cone of cold for 8d8; SD regenerate 1 
hp/round, at will; By, polymorph to humanoid 
form , become in visible, cause darkness 10' 
radius t 1/day assume gaseous form). 

Arley will immediately turn and welcome 
the characters when they enter his room. He 
will introduce himself by name, and explain his 
presence by briefly telling them/"I am a lowly 
weaver, forced to endeavor in this forsaken 
place because of an evil enchantment laid upon 
me by a wizard who was none too pleased with 
a robe I fashioned for him." Arley will then 
proceed to produce his "valuables," which he 
claims to have "fashioned for all those who 
would trade for them " He will attempt to turn 
aside or brush off any questions. 

He will open the box next to the spinning 
wheel and bring forth the eight items listed on 
the table below. He will attempt to trade with 
the characters for these items, gamering an 
"equal item" m return. The trading is rigged 
against those who partake, however, for all of 
the following items are evil or cursed, and 
Arley will be more than happy to part with 
them. 

If Arley is caught during one of his ruses, if 
his alignment is detected, and/or if the players 
do not believe his "evil enchantment" story, 
he will assume gaseous form or turn invisible 
to escape. He knows Level #1 well, and if fol 
lowed he will lead the players to Key #19 


(75%) to activate the golem or to Key #7 
(25%), to lure them into the pool of the het- 
fish. If all else fails, he will fight to the death! 

Arlev's Boxed Items: 

1. Girdle; Arley says it is a girdle of stone 
giant strength. It is actually a girdle of feminin 
ity/masculinity (DMG t page 145). 

2. Cap: Arley says it is a cap of quick action. 
It is actually a cap of evil, and will change the 
wearer's alignment to evil (similar to a helm of 
opposite alignment [DMG, page 146). 

3. Gauntlets: Arley says they are silken 
gauntlets of swimming and climbing. They are 
actually envenomed gauntlets ; the linings 
have been treated with a contact poison. A 
saving throw vs. poison is required when they 
are put on-failure means death! 

4. Slippers: Arley says they are slippers of 
speed. They are actually slippers of slowness 
(treat as a slow spell for as long as they are 
worn). They cannot be removed except by 
the use of a dispel magic spell, by a remove 
curse at 12th level of spell use, or by a wish. 

5. Robe: Arley says it is a robe of eyes. It is 
actually a cursed robe 0 /serration. When the 
robe is donned, the wearer will not see "magi 
cal eyes" at all; instead, hundreds of half-inch 
mouths, sporting tiny teeth, will appear. They 
will bite the victim for 10 points of damage 
(total) per round that this robe is worn. The 


robe will wrap around whomever dons it, and 
cannot be removed if the victim's strength is 
14 or less. A character having a strength of 15 
or more may break this devilish robes hold 
upon him in 10 rounds, sustaining only half 
damage while doing this. Alternately, a 
remove curse spell will utterly destroy the 
item, leaving nothing but a heap of smoldering 
rags upon the floor in its place, 

6. Sash: Arley says it is a silken sash of 
wishes. It is actually a sash of immolation . 
Once wrapped around the waist, the sash will 
explode in a sheet of whirling flame about the 
wearer. This item causes a total damage of 21- 
30 (ldlO*2Q) points and then "bums out," fall 
ing to the ground in a stream of black ash, 

7. Socks : Arley says they are socks of fire 
walking. They are actually socks of sweating. 
They appear to be the only good item out of 
the bunch; when worn, they will actually pro 
tect the wearer from fire, just as would a ring 
offire resistance (DMG, page 130), This pro 
tection, however, lasts but six rounds. At that 
time, the wearer will start sweating profusely, 
losing 2 hit points per round to dehydration. 
Additionally, for every 6 points of damage 
accrued in this manner, the character's 
strength, constitution, and charisma scores 
are each reduced by 1 point. If any score 
drops below 2 t the character is incapacitated. 
If any score drops to 0, the character is dead. 
Lost ability points return in I day. These 
socks will continue to cause the character to 














8. The 

Ever-Changing 

Chalice 


sweat as long as they are worn. The continue 
ous intake of water will lessen the damage 
dealt by 1 hit point per round, and will negate 
the loss of the aforementioned ability score 
points. 

8, Kaftan: Arley says it is a kaftan 
(sweater) of protection from evil. It is actually 
a kaftan of ogrishness. When worn, this 
sweater will not actually protect anyone from 
evil, A peculiarity will shortly be noted by the 
wearer. After a character wears the garment 
for one full day, he will start having cravings 
for progressively rawer meat, and will be 
heard to mumble occasionally while leering at 
others* From time to time, the wearer will be 
noticed drooling. The wearer will still remem 
ber his duties and his companions, although he 
will begin to talk to friends less and less fre 
quently. 

The kaftan is easily removed. If the wearer 
of the item removes it before the end of three 
days, the effects will be reversed; and the 
character will return to normal within 1-6 
hours. Otherwise, the character will be sub 
jected to the full effect of the kaftan's curse. 

The Curse of the Kaftan: On the second 
day of wearing the garment, highly noticeable 
physical and mental effects will be apparent. 
The character's bulk will increase by 20-50 
lbs,; height will increase to 6 ft. * ldl2 in. (if 
the character was originally under that 
height); the eyes will appear squintv and filmy* 
the tongue purplish-brown f the nose longer 
and rubbery* the skull more bulbous, the talk 
slower and more guttural, and the walk will be 
reduced to a stiffer, more lumbering gait. 
Strength will increase to 18/00, but intelli 
gence and wisdom will decline by 6 points 
each, or to a score of 7 t whichever is lower* 
Dexterity will drop to 7-9 (6+1 d3)* constitu 
tion remains unchanged, and charisma 
changes to a range from -3 to 2 (ld6 roll). 
During this time, the wearer will barely 
remember events of only one or two days pre 
vious. His mistrust of others will greatly 
increase-there is a 50% chance that the vic 
tim will wander off, not trusting his associates 
any more* Once departed, the victim will 
either avoid or attack former companions 
(50% chance of each) if they approach. 

On the third day of wearing the kaftan* the 
victim irrevocably becomes a full-fledged 
ogre! AH previous knowledge and lifetime 
experiences are wiped clean* The victim will 
think* act* eat, etc*, as does an ogre. Align 
ment will r of course, change to chaotic evil. 
Nothing less than a wish or divine intervention 
will restore the character to his or her former 
self. 


6. Tapestry Room 

This room is illuminated by two lamps sus 
pended from pegs on the northern and south 
ern walls. Strewn about and hung from the 
walls and ceilings are many beautiful tapes 
tries* 

The lamps have enough oil in them to stay lit 
for 3-30 turns each. The six tapestries listed 
below have no special value other than their 
aesthetic and/or monetary worth. 


NoJSize 

Make 

Design 

Gp Value 

1 . 

3'x3' 

linen 

floral 

460 

2* 

3'x5* 

silk/ 

geometric 780 



gold 

thread 



3. 

4'x4' 

cotton 

floral 

800 

4. 

5'x5' 

woolen/ 

hunting 

1*275 



silver/ 

scene 




gold 

thread 



5. 

5'x5' 

cotton/ 

floral/ 

2.560 



silk/ 

hunting 




platinum 

thread 

scene 


6. 

6'x6 1 

silk/ 

mosaic/ 

3*100 



crushed 
& mixed 

floral 




gemstones 


7- 

THE 

Amber Pool 



The water of this round pool is amber in color, 
a bit murky, and moves just slightly* as if a 
small but constant tidal influx were at work 
upon it* Its bottom cannot be seen because of 
a haze caused by an admixture of the colora 
tion, the murkiness, and the light shed by a 
chalice which is set upon a raised 20 ft. round 
area at the center of the pool (see Key #8)* 
This 10 ft. deep pool is inhabited by hetfish 
(see Appendix 2; AC 5* MV 15' swimming, 
HD 1-3* hp S-24 each, #AT 1-20 fish swarm 
victim, Dmg 1-20 heal damage!* If the pool is 
entered, 1-20 of these fish will swarm each 
character* No "to hit" roll is needed by the 
fish, for their mode of attack (merely brushing 
up against or ramming the target) allows 
instant contact and heat damage. If the char 
acters do not immediately eliminate these fish 
in melee, more and more fish will swarm to 
the attack (1-20 additional fish per melee 
round)* until the entire pool is embroiled in a 
thrashing* scorching uproar, Hetfish appear 
virtually identical to piranha, but with many 
knobs and lumps protruding above the surface 
of their scales. Their size varies from 1 to 3 ft* 
There is nothing of value in the pool. 


When first seen, this appears to be a 3 ft. tall* 
9-inch round silver chalice. It is enchanted* 
and will appear, by illusion, to change color. 
RoH ld6 once per turn per character to deter 
mine what color is seen by each character that 
turn. The characters may see the chalice in 
different colors. 


1 = glistening silver 

2 - pale green 

3 * radiant amber 

4 * warm red 

5 - cobalt blue 

6 - sparkling gold 

The chalice has a worth of6,000 gp if sold to 
those interested in such illusions. It has no 
other properties except as described. 

9. Empty Chamber 


10. Decorated Chamber 

Painted upon the north, east* and west walls 
of this 30 ft, x 30 ft. room are frescoes of ser 
vile ladies lying upon many-colored furs near a 
fountain* The fountain water is depicted as 
bubbling lava, with a scaled* fire-enveloped 
hand reaching forth from it. 

This is an artist's symbolic representation 
of the pool (Key 07) and the danger it repre 
sents. The ladies represent the laxness of 
those dealing with it carelessly. The scaled 
hand signifies the hetfish, while the bubbling 
lava denotes the fiery inclination of these 
creatures. 

11. Empty Chamber 

12. Empty Chamber 

13. Bronze Statue Room 

One bronze statue is placed in each of the 
room's comers (NE* NW, SE* SW). Each is 6 
ft, high and appears to be a grim fighter* 
bedecked in plate mail and holding a long 
spear. They are positioned so that each is 
pointing its spear toward the center of the 


Colors: 


This room is unused and dusty* 


8 









room. In the middle of this room is a 1 ft, 
round blood mark, dried and aged-looking, as 
if someone from eons past had bled here. 

These are just statues, nothing more. The 
plate mail and spears are cast as part of the 
figures and are not removable. The blood 
mark radiates magic. Any character who 
steps in, touches, or moves over this mark 
will gain the benefit of being unaffected by the 
spears loosed from the trap at Key #15. The 
blood is not useful in any other way. ft cannot 
be removed, 

14. Empty Chamber 

This room appears to be empty and unused. A 
secret trap door leading down is located in the 
northeast comer. It opens easily, allowing 
space for one person at a time to descend. A 
passage at the bottom leads off to the east for 
30 ft., ending at a trap door set into the ceil 
ing, which leads to Key #15, 

15. Deserted Chamber 

This room seems like the others, dusty and 
unused. Examination of the 10 sq. ft. alcove in 
the southeastern portion of this room will 
reveal a door to the north. 

When the door is opened, six bronze spears 
shoot forth from a slotted trap on the far west 
ern wall. The slots open as the door does t so 
unless the players specifically check for traps 
on that wall they will not see the slots. The 
spears will hit anyone standing in the inter 
vening space between Hie door and the west 
ern wall (Divide the spears equally among 
potential victims, randomly rolling for spears 
or victims left over.) All those characters who 
did not gain the benefits of the blood mark at 
Key #13 will be automatically hit by these 


spears. Damage caused is 2-8 points per 
spear. Those characters who gained the pro 
tection of the blood mark will find that these 
spears do no harm, merely bouncing off them. 

These 6 ft. long bronze spears radiate a dim 
magic. If used in combat, they will automati 
cally hiL, scoring 2-8 points of damage. 
Against unarmored or lightly armored oppo 
nents, they do normal damage. When 
employed against metal-dad opponents, or 
those beings with equivalent armor class rat 
ings, there is a 50% chance per use that they 
will break, doing .10 damage in the process, 

16. The Great Draperies 

These curtains divide this great room in half, 
They are made from black satin and are sus 
pended from numerous 20 ft. tall wooden 
columns. 

The ceiling south of the curtains is vaulted, 
extending some 30 ft. upward. The whole of 
Areas #17-19 is continuously lit by a dim, pur 
ple faerie fire spell effect. A magical aura per 
meates the entire area. 

17. Ivory Pillars 

Keys #17a-f are each 30 ft. high, 5 ft. diame 
ter Ivory pillars-possibly carved from huge 
elephant tusks! Each pillar is sculpted to 
resemble a male figure. 

These pillars wilt seem to come to life when 
the iron golem moves to attack intruders (see 
Key #19d, #, Room Conditions during Golem 
Attack/ 1 for details). 

a. This carving resembles a nobleman in 
robes, looking straight ahead. 

b. This carving resembles a scowling lighter 
type* looking directly north. 


c. This carving resembles a scholarly man 
who seems to be deep in thought. 

d. This carving resembles a lithe man in fash 
ionable dress, possibly a representation of a 
bard or poet. He has a thin smile on his face 
and a dreamy expression. 

e. This carving resembles a sneering, regal 
person. His eyes are turned upward, as if he 
were above all who pass, 

f. This carving resembles a beggar. He looks 
off at an angle toward Key #19. 

18. Viewing Stands 

These two areas are raised 15 ft. above the 
main floor, with steps leading to the seats 
above. The stands seat a maximum of 60 peo 
ple (4 booths, 15 per booth), and are tiered so 
as to allow easy viewing of the area in front of 
them. 

The stands will seem to have a variety of 
beings in them when the iron golem attacks. 
(See Key #19d.) 

19. Throne/Statue Area 

This 50 ft, x 70 ft. raised area has 3 statues 
upon it. Two stand on either side of the stairs, 
each raised 5 ft. above the floor. The other, 
more ominous, statue is seated upon a granite 
throne at the top of the stairs* 15 ft above the 
floor. 

If this area is entered or touched (/.e.. if the 
characters attempt to walk or dimb on any of 
the raised areas, or touch the statues, or use 
spells on any part of the throne area, etc.) the 
iron golem described below will animate and 
immediately move to attack the characters. 
(See Key #19d, "'Room Conditions during 
Golem Attack/') 


9 





19A. Fighter Statue 

This statue is made of iron, and depicts a 
swarthy fighter in elaborately crafted plate 
mail armor. His visor is open* and he stares 
downward. He holds an out-thrust longs word 
in his right hand. 

Lf the adventurers attempt to remove the 
sword, which seems to be part of the whole 
statue* the statue's right hand will momentar 
ily turn to flesh and release its grasp upon the 
sword. This sword is one of the only two 
weapons that may harm the iron golem. 
Against a golem, this weapon gains a *3 bonus 
to hit and inflicts 3-30 points of damage per 
hit, plus any other bonuses applicable. It is 
otherwise a normal longs word *L 

If this half-ton statue is somehow moved* a 
small cavity below it (3 ft* deep* 1 ft, diame 
ter) will be revealed. In the cavity is a copper 
urn containing 11 pieces of jewelry worth 
2,000-5*000 gp each* 27 gems (24 black opals 
and 3 diamonds, worth a base 1*000 gp each), 
and 1*275 pp. 

19B. Magic/User Statue 

This iron statue depicts an old, bearded 
magic-user* clothed in traditional garb. He 
holds a dagger in his left hand* and peers down 
with a vengeful cast to his eyes. 

If the adventurers attempt to remove the 
dagger* the statue will transform to flesh and 
come to life* Instead of attacking* however* it 
will immediately kneel and, with both hands* 
present the dagger to the character in front of 
it. It will then stand, resume its original posi 
tion, and turn back to iron, winking to the 
recipient just before the flesh-to-iron trans 
formation is complete. 

This dagger is the second of the two weap 
ons that may harm the iron golem. Against a 
golem, this weapon gains a *2 bonus to hit and 
inflicts 2-16 points of damage, plus any other 
bonuses applicable. In addition, if the "to hit" 
roll is a natural 19 or 20* a second attack may 
be made during the same round. It ls other 
wise a normal dagger *2, 

If the right hand of the magic-user statue is 
grasped and pulled down, the statue's head 
will loosen and fall to the floor. The head is hol 
low. and contains a scroll of 3 clerical spells: 
neutralize poison , raise dead, and heal. 

19c, Creature Statue 

This iron statue is seated upon a granite 
throne. It holds a crystal, iron-hewn sword in 


its left hand, and a whip of long, broad, inter 
woven feathers in its right hand. 

This is the terrible iron golem (AC 3, MV 
6*, HD 15, hp 85* #AT-see below* D-see 
below* SA poison sword, flaming breath, whip 
petrifies, SD automatic fevication at 2 "/turn as 
desired* MR immune to ail physical and magi 
cal attacks except from the "statue weapons" 
detailed above)* The golem will animate as 
described in Key #19 above. 

The golem stands a full 8 ft. tall. Its head is 
that of a regular iron golem, except that its 
maw is wider and a small flicker of dame may 
be seen therein. 

This monstrosity is exceptionally powerful 
and terrible indeed. It may perform up to 
three attack functions per melee round: roll 
ld6 and apply the results from the table 
below* 

1-2 Attacks with sword only 

3-4 Attacks with sword and whip 

5-6 Attacks with sword* whip* and flaming 
breath 

Sword: This 5 l h ft. long sword is wrought 
from crystal-encased iron. A greenish, vis 
cous fluid appears to be on its surface. This 
substance is poison. When the golem scores a 
hit, its victim takes 2-24 points of immediate 
damage and must make a saving throw vs. 
poison or die. 

Whip of Feathers: This 6 ft. long whip is 
fashioned from many cockatrice feathers. 
Upon each successful hit, the victim must 
make a saving throw vs* petrifaction or be 
turned to stone. The whip is actually non- 
magical, but a rare technique of preserving 
cockatrice feathers has been employed here, 
thus making it usable as a weapon. 

Flaming Breath: A fiery sheet of flame, 
12 ft* long and 2 ft. wide at its base* shoots 
forth from the golem's mouth. It may hit sev 
eral grouped opponents at once (1-4 in a mass 
ranked or packed column)* If the golem is 
involved in one-on-one melee* its breath is 
capable of hitting one person only. The golem 
is extremely accurate with this breath* requir 
ing no "to hit" roll* nor may the targeted vic 
tim make any saving throw (although 
protections against magical fire do apply). The 
damage inflicted is 5-30 points per breath. 

Once animated, the iron golem will pursue 
and attack all intruders who still roam this 
dungeon level. It will seek out such inter 
lopers everywhere* tirelessly tracking them 
down, lf the characters descend to the lower 
levels* the iron golem wih stand guard at 
either Key #14 (50%)* Key #19 (25%), or 


Key #1 (25%)* awaiting their return. If the 
characters flee from the dungeon* it will wait 
for their return at Key #1 for 1-4 days* 
unemotionally clanking back to resume its 
"sleeper position" on its throne after the pas 
sage of time is complete. 

19D. Room Conditions 
During Golem Attack 

The Ivory Pillars (Keys #17a-f) and the view 
ing stands (Key #18) seem to come to life, ini 
tiated by the activation of the iron golem. A 
strong* ingrained magic motivates and sus 
tains these grand illusions and audible gla- 
mers. Whatever the state or actions of the 
characters* these sight and sound occur 
rences will seem real to them. Although the 
illusions cannot be dispelled or disbelieved, 
they are more "bark than bite," and cause no 
real harm. 

When the golem is defeated through com 
bat* or when the characters quit this area and 
the golem returns to its former state of dor 
mancy, these illusions will cease to function* 

The Pillars (Keys #17a-f) 

The pillars now seem to be fleshly versions of 
the original carvings* moving and speaking to 
one another as if they were heavenly beings, 
viewing and wagering upon the outcome of 
this contest. Each watches the battle in pro 
gress closely* talking and comparing notes 
with others all the while. Each seems to look 
at the characters, some pointing at times* 
some merely observing intently, perhaps sav 
ing their comments for the eventual outcome 
of the battle. 

Viewing Stands (Key # 18 ) 

These once-empty viewing stands now 
appear to be filled to bursting with many char 
acters of dead* living, ethereal, earthly, 
demonic, and angelic visages. The living* 
earthly, and angelic types are heard to shout 
encouragements to the characters such as: 
"Get that rust bucket! Don't let him whip yah! 
Get behind him!! GO! GO!" The dead, ethe 
real, and demonic types will boo the charac 
ters and shout evil suggestions to the golem 
such as: "Melt that magic-user! Crunch that 
cleric! Killing's too good for them!I" 
























ey to the second Level 



General Notes 

The stonework here seems quite old and, as 
on the first level is composed of granite. The 
floors are damp, but not overly so, and appear 
mildewed in places. Unless noted, the corri 
dor width remains a constant 10 ft, and height 
maintains a consistent 20 ft.* as on the first 
level. Doors are made of metal-bound oak, 
and are 7 ft* wide and 6 in. thick, opening 
inward unless indicated otherwise* 

20. Entry 

There is an 8 ft. x 10 ft* rough-hewn hole to 
the south. 

A tyrg (see Appendix 2; AC 5, MV 15", HD 
5, hp 32, #AT 1, Dmg 1-12, SA howl equals 
minor stunning within a 20 ft. radius; save vs. 
wands or penalties of -1 to initiative, -2 to hit, 
lasts 3 rounds) stands a vigilant watch here. 
This giant mammal, which resembles a grey, 
black, and white-speckled wolfhound* leaps 
out at anyone coming within 10 ft* of its den. 
The tyrg will howl incessantly, causing all 
those failing their saving throw vs* wands to 
be affected as noted above. Saving throws 
must be made for each round of howling. The 
effects of the howling attack are not cumula 
tive* and a character may only be affected a 
second rime if three consecutive rounds of 
stunning have previously occurred* The howl 
ing will alert the occupants of Room #21, and 
they will arrive in 1 round to do battle. 

This hound's lair contains scraps, bones, 
and dung. There is nothing of use or interest 
to adventurers here. 

21. Guard Room 

Herein are eight fighters, who are lounging, 
standing, cleaning weapons* and so forth. 
Some of them are reclining on bunks along the 
southern and western walls. 

These are the guards of the entryway to 
this dungeon level (F 4* AC 4, hp 30, 28, 26. 
22, 21, 20* 20, 19, #AT 1* Dmg 1-8, all aver 
age ability scores, chain mail armor, shields, 
light crossbows* broadswords, and 2-20 gp 
each). They wear black surcoats with a blazon 
of a silver sun. Since they were provided with 
a puppy tyrg which eventually grew to 
become the beast at Key #20, they have done 
less of the guarding, allowing the tyrg to be 
their warning sy stem. If the characters do not 
disturb the tyrg in their approach* there is a 
50% chance that these fighters will be sur 
prised for 5 segments by anyone entering 
their room. If the characters disturb the tyrg, 


the fighters will rush to Key #20 to kill or cap 
ture the characters. After an initial discharge 
of crossbow bolts, they will attack with broad 
swords; those unable to change weapons will 
continue firing crossbows. 

Note that each Guard must also make a sav 
ing throw vs. the tyrg's howl They have not 
grown accustomed to the awful noise* 

In all cases, these fighters will do battle until 
their numbers are reduced to four or below, 
and will then attempt to flee to inform their 
Lord at Key #24. They know this dungeon 
level well, and if followed will dodge around 
comers and double back to elude the adven 
turers while proceeding to their lord* 

22. Huge Tapestry 

A thick and very well-made 30 ft* x 10 ft. tap 
estry is hung along the southern wall. 
Depicted upon a field of black are many 
strange beings in very unusual surroundings, 
A great city dominates the majority of this tap 
estry; with two huge, bronze, tuskless ele 
phants positioned before its wide gate. The 
city itself seems lifeless. A single domed 
building with cupola is shown jutting above the 
city's battlements. The sky above the city 
crackles with silver lightning. Two heads 
appear among the bolts* One is of a larger- 
than-normal wolfs head, its fur black and thick 
and its eyes like two silver pools of menacing 
thought. The second is of a man* gaunt and 
intense in features* who smiles as he looks 
down upon the city, 

This tapestry was woven by Arley, and 
depicts the Lost City of the Elders, located in 
a dimension accessible only through the use of 
a certain dagger guarded by Kerzit the 
Demon (see Appendix 1, TOME OF THE 
BLACK HEART), It radiates a faint magic of 
an indeterminate sort, but does nothing. The 
tapestry is worth 10,000 gp, but it weighs 150 
pounds and requires three strong characters 
to carry it even at encumbered speed. 

23. Hallway 

The middle 10 ft. expanse of this 20 ft. wide 
hail is taken up by a pool of water* Its surface 
is still and nothing lies within it* It appears to 
be only 1 to 2 ft. deep at most, but closer 
examination (within 1 ft* of the edge) is 
required to verify this, 

When viewed from no more than a 1 ft* dis 
tance, a vision appears upon its surface that 
can be seen by all those watching. The picture 
takes the form of a purplish object, possibly a 
large rock or stone, It definitely appears to be 


oblong or ovoid in shape. All those who look 
upon this vision for more than one full round 
will acquire a directional "feeling." A charac 
ter who attempts to follow this "feeling" will 
be led to Key #47* THE PURPLE STONE. 

24. Occupied Room 

This room is well lit by a continual light spell. 
A man wearing grey and black robes can be 
seen standing next to a table with many 
objects on it. This man begins to gesture at 
the characters as they enter. 

This is the "Lord" Hubehn* who is the 
right-hand man of Eli Tomorast (see Key 
#38). 

Hubehn has the following statistics: M-U 
8, AC 5, MV 12". hp 31, #AT 1* Dmg 2-5; S 
10, I 16* W 14, D 14, Con 15, Ch 9; robe of 
protection *1, scroll of three spells: compre 
hend languages, Rary's mnemonic enhancer 
distance distortion; a small sack contining four 
sprinkles of dust of dullness* and a dagger T 
hidden beneath Ins robe; SA spells. See 
Appendix 1 for a full description of dust of dull 
ness. 

Hubehn f s spells: 

Level 1: hold portal, magic missile, shocking 
grasp * spider climb 

Level 2: invisibility, shatter, web 
Level 3: haste, hold person* stow 
Level 4: dimension door, polymorph other 

Hubehn will be awaiting the characters if he 
has been alerted by his guards (Key #21). He 
will not be surprised by their entrance {unless 
the characters use magic, such as dimension 
door, shrinking down and slipping under the 
door, etc*) and gains a bonus of +2 on ail initia 
tive rolls because of his dexterity and pre 
paredness* If he has not been alerted* normal 
surprise and reaction rolls apply, Hubehn will 
cast haste on himself and any other compatri 
ots present (maximum of 8), and will attempt 
to subdue as much of the party as possible 
with his hold person spell. If this fails to stop 
at least half of those attacking him, he will cast 
dimension door, go behind the secret door to 
the south, and await the adventurers there. If 
he hears them poking around this door, he will 
cast invisibility and spider climb on himself, 
and then crawl to the ceiling to hide, judging 
the right time and distance between the party 
and himself to either ambush them or escape. 
If he is discovered* he will fight with all means 
available, first throwing liis dust of dullness 
upon the adventurers. If he escapes* he will 


12 





flee to Key #38 to warn his master, Eli 
Tomorast, of the intrusion. In this event, the 
whole of the 2nd and 3rd dungeon levels will 
be alerted and prepared for the characters # 
approach. 

This room contains a simple bed and a table 
with chair. There are a variety of objects on 
the table, including a bowl with dried fruit, a 
jug of thin wine t half a loaf of hard bread, a nor 
mal knife, a day cup, and a small wooden box 
(where Hubehn stores his change) containing 
12 cp, 20 sp, 8 gp, 3 ep, and 2 zircon gems 
(worth 10 gp each). Otherwise this room 
appears empty and seldom used. 

25. Storage Room 

This rough-hewn place is a closet. Piled in 
front of and around a 6 ft, round by 5 ft. deep 
pit are 8 crates and boxes and 3 casks. 

The boxes contain foodstuffs (dried meat, 
flour, dried fruit, salt, etc*), but the casks, which 
contain beer and wine, are nearly empty- The 
last barrel contains a fine wine and honey mix 
(mulse), The pit descends 5 ft. and connects to a 
5 ft. x 7 ft. passage going west-southwest. The 
passage ends after 40 ft., and there is a 6 ft. x 5 
ft. chimney above the far end, 

26. Chest Room 

The chimney at Key #25 leads up to another 
rough-hewn area. Within this area are two 
large chests, positioned across from each 
other along the east and west walls. Each 
chest is 4 ft* long, 2 ft. high, and 2 ft. wide. 

If the chests are examined (approached, 
prodded, opened, etc,) there is a 75% chance 


that the thin wire between the two will be bro 
ken and the trap described below sprung. 
Normal trap detection (by spell, item, or thief 
ability) may detect this, but such attempts will 
fail if those attempting them are adversely 
affected by the dust of dullness. The DM 
should determine the exact location of each 
character when the trap is triggered. The trap 
consists of eight arrows from each chest: four 
straight out to the front, two straight up, and 
two to either side. Each arrow has a 50% 
chance of hitting a victim within the area spec 
ified. The arrows are poison-tipped, inflicting 
1-6 points of damage plus 1-8 points of poison 
damage unless a saving throw vs, poison is 
made for each hit. 

The chest along the west wall is empty The 
east chest contains 1,652 sp, 3,075 gp, and a 
map revealing the route to Key #27. 

27. Dead End 

Tins appears to be a dead-end corridor, with 
no visible exits. If the characters are following 
the map from Key #26, they will find that the 
trail seems to end here, although the map 
appears to continue. A secret door to the 
west leads to a passageway south toward the 
stairs leading down to Level #3. 

28. Stinking Chamber 

The air here smells acrid and stale* The floor 
is stained and pitted as if eroded. The shaded 
area shown on the map is from the constantly 
exploding, bubbling add pit to the north, If the 
residual "film" on the floor here is checked for 
taste, it will be bitter and will burn the mouth. 


29. Unwholesome Pool 

This 20 ft. wide pool is filled with a blackish, 
smoking, acrid-smelling, gurgling brew. The 
smell is awful and causes dizziness, accompa 
nied by a burning sensation in the eyes, nose, 
and mouth. 

This is a pool of concentrated acid under 
constant pressure from streams passing 
beneath Maure Castle, If touched by flesh, 
the minimum damage inflicted is 2-7 points, no 
saving throw* All those thrown in or 
immersed are slain immediately no save. The 
pool will explode 1-6 rounds after the charac 
ters arrive, and again every 0-9 (Idl0-1) 
rounds thereafter. Each explosion will spray 
all those standing in the outlined area (see 
map) for 4-16 points of add damage each (no 
save, but items carried need not be checked). 
All those standing next to this pool and/or 
viewing it closely (witliin 5 ft.) will also be 
blinded for 1-6 turns or until the acid is washed 
from their eyes. Any fully helmeted character 
is protected from this blinding. 


30. Chamber of Fumes 

This area seems to be rather hot. Smoke can 
be seen rising from the corners of the floor 
and collecting near the ceiling. 

The patterned area (see map) is a fire-pit 
trap. If walked upon by any character, the 
floor will collapse, hurling all those upon it 20 
ft. down into a raging fire pit. All within it take 
2d2Q points of fire damage per segment 
(20d20/round). This fire pit will destroy 
nearly anything within it in two rounds; all 


13 



items must save vs* magical fire with a -8 pen 
alty to the roll* A wish can restore an inciner 
ated character, but without items carried. 

31. Room of Robes 

This room is filled with racks of robes hanging 
from the ceiling and walls. Because of this, the 
room's dimensions cannot be properly made 
out, nor its entire contents viewed* 

Hidden among the robes is a spectre (AC 2, 
MV 15730", HD 7+3, hp45, #AT 1, Dmg 1-8, 
SA energy drain, SD +1 or better weapon to 
hit). This undead creature will wait for those 
examining this room to pass it by* It will float 
out from its cover and attack, surprising oppo 
nents on a roil of 1-3 on ld6. 

There is nothing of value or interest here 
except the robes, which are worth 1 cp each. 
Characters may take robes for themselves if 
they like. Each adds 50 gp encumbrance, 

32. Special Guard Room 

Upon entering this room, the characters see two 
knightly figures in black armor. Emblazoned 
upon their breastplates are silver suns. They 
draw longswords and attack immediately. 

These two fighters (F 7, AC 2. MV 67 hp 
47, 44, #AT 1, Dmg 2-9; Strength 17, plate 
mail and shield) are fanatical followers of 
Tbmorast. Once engaged in combat, they will 
fight to the death. They will be of no help to 
the characters if they are captured; instead, 
they will lead them astray toward areas other 
than their master's* 

This room contains two bunks. All that 
these fighters own is stored in a box near one 
of the bunks. Within the box are two small 
pouches, each containing four rubies worth a 
base 1 *000 gp each* Everything else is of nor 
mal manufacture (towels, cups, a glass mirror, 
rations, etc.) 

33. SOUTH 
Storage Room 

This room contains three large kegs, five 
boxes, three casks, three large sacks, and an 
intricately carved coffer. The kegs contain 
wine, water, and vinegar water. The five 
boxes contain dried fruit, vegetables, dark 
cheese, salted meats, and nuts. The sacks 
contain flour, salt, and beans. The small coffer 
(made of iron wood and festooned with minia 
ture flowers, worth 55 gp) contains a variety 
of spices including sage, pepper, nutmeg, 
mustard, dill, and basil. 


34. Heavy Door 

Beyond this door is a spiral staircase that 
descends to Level #3. 

35. Weapons 
Practice Area 

This 80 ft. x 70 ft. area houses many fighting 
props, large stones, straw and wooden dum 
mies dressed in leather jerkins, copper and 
brass urns, two small tables, three stools, 
two chairs, four builseye targets, boxes of 
rocks, empty chests, and several weapons 
(swords, halberds, arrows and shields). It 
appears to be a place where fighters might 
work to improve their skills. A 2 ft* diameter 
hole is on the west wall, 7 ft* up; it will not be 
noticed unless the room is careMy examined. 

This is actually a magical practice area for 
Tomorast (Key #38) and his apprentice 
Hubehn (Key #24)* In here they practice 
mock battles and hone their dexterity and tim 
ing. The eastern wall has obviously been 
"blasted" a number of times, as the holes and 
singe marks silently attest. Some blood marks 
are also here* left by those prisoners who 
were given a weapon and "let loose" upon 
one of the two mages to meet a swift death by 
spells. Except for the weapons present (two 
bastard swords, three halberds, fifteen 
arrows, and two target shields) nothing is of 
value or further interest, 

If the hole in the western wall is checked, 
peek holes #K and #L will be seen (see Key 
#41)* 

36. Long Corridor 

As the characters walk down this 20 ft. wide 
corridor, which appears to extend to the south 
for a considerable distance, they are suddenly 
faced with a dead end! 

The characters have actually been tele 
ported from Key #36a to Key #36b. No mat 
ter which way they go, they wifi always be 
teleported back to Key #36b* The easiest way 
to escape this trap is to walk backward to Key 
#36b, thus reversing the magic and allowing 
the characters" return* Other ways to foil this 
trap require the employment of magical spells 
or items that allow teleportation or other 
methods of magical passage. A dispel magic or 
similar abjuration will "calm Tt the teleporter 
for 1*3 rounds, allowing those who pass dur 
ing that time to avoid being sent back to Key 
#36b. 


37. Black Hand 

This 25 ft* x 25 ft* hexagonal room has a 3 ft* x 
7 ft, imprint of a black hand near its center. 
Anyone touching this hand will have an instan 
taneous mental contact with another being, as 
described below. RoU ld6: 

1-3 a* Eli Tomorast Key #38 

4-5 b* Kerzit the Demon Key #67 

6 c* One of the party members 

a. Tomorast will tdepathically speak to his 
contactor, attempting to find out as much as 
possible. He will use every ruse in the book, 
even saying that he is a good spirit (ki-rin, 
shedu. et a/.) who can guide the characters 
through the dungeon level and to safety or 
riches if they so desire. If they listen to his 
advice, he will either guide them to an ambush 
(where he. Hubehn, and his special guards 
will be waiting-see Keys #24 and #32), or 
give precise directions to the fire-pit trap 
(Key #30) to destroy the party. If the charac 
ters ignore this advice and/or "call his bluff" 
Tomorast will gather the aforementioned 
forces and immediately proceed to this room, 
attempting to track the adventurers by the 
mental contact. 

b. Kerzit the Demon appears as a picture in 
the contacting character's mind, but no com 
munication occurs* The image is greatly for 
bidding, depicting a wolf-headed, tentaded 
being* The image is quite distorted and some 
what disproportionate, so the contactor will 
see little else depicted besides this. 

c. A telepathic link is established with a ran 
domly selected party member. This link will 
remain in effect as long as the two in contact 
do not leave this room (Key #37). 

Unless specified otherwise, any contact will 
remain for only 2-7 (d6 +1) rounds. The link is 
then broken, and the only way to reestablish it 
is to again touch the black hand. Communica 
tion with Tomorast or with a character may 
extend up to 1 mile, as long as the spell is in 
effect* The hand does not provide communi 
cation with anyone else* 

38. Round Chamber 

The characters see a wizardly figure 
bedecked in black, grey and silver garb. His 
overall visage is glaring, and he quickly exam 
ines the group's position within his quarters. 
This room is laden with many objects, but 
there is no time to study the place. The robed 
man raises his odd-looking hands, gesturing 


14 









and making strange signs in the air before 
him. As he does, his luminous amber eyes 
seem to bum into your souls. The battle is 
joined at last! 

This is Eli Tomorast, wizard, artificer, and 
madman. His statistics are: M-U 14, AC var 
ies-see below* MV 12** hp 45, #AT 1, Dmg 
3-6* SA spells and see below* SD see below; S 
14* l IB, W 10, D 17, Con 16, Ch 11, dagger 
*2 f ring of spell turning, potion of controlling 
damage. (See Appendix 1 for potion descrip 
tion,) 

Tomorast will attack all intruders with grow 
ing ferocity each turn. The characters will 
notice his hands immediately, for they are 
black and scaly, and have many unnatural 
spikes upon their surface, Tomorast's great 
est weapons, outside of his spells, are these 
hands, described below. 

Tomorast will use every contrivance availa 
ble to him to kill the characters. Since he will 
be somewhat warded from spells due to his 
ring* he will lodge his first attacks upon 
fighters and clerics in the group, with the 
imagined hope of dispatching them and then 
concentrating, through melee with his hands, 
upon any magic-users present. He wifi al 
ways opt to use killing spells rather than 
slowing* controlling, or transformation-type 
dweomers* 

If all else fails, and if he seems near certain 
death, he may (50%) continue the battle by 
magic jar using one of the gems adorning the 
ceiling for soul containment. Otherwise (50%) 
he will teleport to Key #64, with which he is 
very familiar. Once there, he will rouse the 
entirety' of Level #3 against the adventurers, 
positioning gnolls (Keys #35 and #38a) and 
assassins (Key #55) to guard the stairs down 
to this dungeon level. The magic-users (Key 
#60) will wait with Tomorast at Key #61, 
where the last stand for this dungeon will be 
made. 


Right Hand: This hand automatically 
improves Tbmorasts chance to hit by + 3 while 
wielding weapons in his right hand. When 
used in combination with other spells or 
items* the total "plus" to hit may not exceed 
*6 due to the restraining nature of this hand. 

Both Hands In Attack: When both unoc 
cupied hands strike the same opponent simul 
taneously, two things occur: 

L The victim hit must make a saving throw 
vs. paralyzafton or be immobile for 2-12 
rounds* and: 

2. The victim hit must make a saving throw 
vs* spell or lose one level of experience (as 
if struck by a wight). 

Both Hands In Defense: When both 
hands are clasped in prayer, Tomorast accrues 
the following benefits: 

1. Flitting non-corporeal black shadows 
hover between him and his opponents, 
giving him a -5 bonus to Armor Class; and 

2* He immediately gains a temporary 
increase of 4-24 hit points* and 

3* He gains a *3 bonus to saving throws vs* 
spell and a *2 bonus on all other saving 
throws. 

When his hands are removed from this 
clasped position* ail benefits cease immedi 
ately. Tomorast may not cast spells nor carry 
on any other combative measures that require 
the use of his hands while maintaining this 
defensive posture. He may move* but only at 
a movement rate of 3" per turn slower than 
normal* If Ibmorasris original hit points fall 
below zero during this period* he will die. 
Damage sustained when in defensive mode 
comes first from additional points gained, 
Defensive posture can be taken as often as 
desired. 


Tomorast f s Spells: 

Level 1: affect normal fires, jump , magic mis 
sile (x2), protection from good 

Level 2: darkness 15' radius, invisibility, lev 
itate , web, wizard lock 

Level 3: dispel magic, Same arrow, lightning 
bolt, phantasmal force, suggestion 

Level 4; confusion , dimension door t poly 
morph other, wall of ice 
Level 5: cone of cold, feeble mind, magic jar, 
teleport 

Level 6: repulsion t spirit wrack 
Level 7: monster summoning V 

Tomorast *s Hands 

Eli's original hands have undergone a grisly 
experiment, involving their removal and 
replacement by the strange appendages 
described below. These were grafted onto 
him* presumably by the same demon or 
nether-world creature that supplied them. 
When striking in melee, the spikes (12 per 
hand) will cause 1 point of damage per spike 
contacting the target* Roll ldl2 (or 2dl2 if 
both hands hit) to determine the number of 
spikes connecting and damage subsequently 
caused. In addition to this melee capability, 
Tomorast has many other abilities inherent in 
these hands* 

Left Hand; This hand can improve 
Tomorasris dexterity by 2 points (raising it to 
18. adjusting his reaction die roll by *3 and 
improving his Armor Class by -2). To use this 
power, which lasts for 2-1 2 rounds, Tomorast 
need only touch his thumb to his index finger, 
but be can do no spell casting that round. 


15 




















































































Tomorast's Room 

Since the adventurers will most probably 
become engaged in combat with Tomorast 
immediately upon entry to this chamber, they 
will probably not have a chance to examine the 
room extensively until the wizard is defeated. 
The area is plush, in its own way-the floors 
are carpeted in black, the walls are hewn from 
grayish stone, and the ceiling has many inlaid 
gems (700 sunstones, base 100 gp each), 
which sparkle like baleful demonic eyes when 
met by light. Many candelabra and cressets 
(bowl lamps) provide illumination. Positioned 
about the room are sundry objects, including 
an oaken table carved with spiraling columns 
for legs, a chair, a divan of cherry wood and 
black velvet, a bookstand with a large book 
upon it, a curved mantle hung on the north 
east wall containing some miniature carvings, 
and a rug next to it. Positioned 5 ft. above the 
floor on the northern wall (see map) is a 2 ft. 
round, rough-hewn tunnel. It leads to the 
north for a short distance and then branches 
(see Key #39, peek holes A-F.) 

Oaken table: On this table is a pen knife, 
a quill pen, a bottle of scroll ink, 12 sheets of 
vellum, a bottle three-quarters filled with 
wine, and an incense burner, A small box on 
the table contains many teeth, scented pow 
ders, flora samples, glass and gem pieces, and 
other miscellany which could be spell compo 
nents. A partial diary is next to the box, con 
taining the information in "Tomorast's 
History," below. Nothing else of interest or 
value is in the box. The contents of the table 
might be sold to a person interested in magical 
supplies (apothecary, magic-user, etc.) for 
about 800 gp. 

Chair: The legs of this chair are made of 
satin wood, the seat of teak wood, and the rest 
of rosewood. The faces of wolves and octopus 
tentacles are inlaid in sable wood. If sold to a 
wood craftsman, this chair can bring 1,000 gp 
or more for its originality and professional 
quality. 

Divan: If the characters somehow 
remove this velvet-lined piece fashioned in 
cherry wood, it may be sold for 400 gp* 

Bookstand: This has an atlas of Oerth 
detailing the geography of the Flanaess, Some 
areas on these maps are marked with an X, 
including the capital of the Great Kingdom, 
Rauxes. Whatever this may mean, it is not 
indicated here. 

Curved Mantle: Set upon this are six 3* 
x 6* miniature coral reliefs. These depict vari 
ous portions of Level #1: the pool of hetfish, 


the pillars, the viewing stands, the iron 
golem* the fighter and magic-user statues, 
and the weaver Ariey (as he appears in ogre 
mage form). Each carving will bring 200-500 
gp if sold. 

Rug: This rug is finely made from rich 
silks. Depicted upon its surface is an alien wil 
derness comprised of trees of a many-hued 
and rooted nature, with multi-headed animals 
and gaudily plumed saw-tooth birds among 
their crooked, dun-colored branches. Double 
suns, one red and the other white, can be 
seen rising* shedding their opulent, mingling 
hues upon a twisted, purplish river, which 
flows through greenish-yellow plants set 
along its banks. In the distance is a grandiose 
city, a miniature in perspective, but the dis 
tance to it seems endless* suggesting that the 
artist's depth is distorted or that the city is 
gargantuan in size. 

This rug radiates magic and is actually an 
item known to Tomorast as "The Accursed 
Carpet" When handled, the rug takes on one 
of the following two aspects (50% chance of 
each): 

A. The rug animates, moving and attacking of 
its own accord as if it were semi-intelligent. 
The rug's characteristics are: AC 5; MV 15 * 
Eying; HD 7; hp 40: #AT 1; Drag 2-20 points 
smothering; SA once attached, smothers for 
automatic damage; SD see below. The rug 
flies about, attempting to land on and smother 
a victim below it. When it hits, it inflicts 
smothering damage automatically until 
destroyed. The victim trapped under it moves 
at half speed, has a -2 penalty to initiative, and 
if the weapon used is trapped inside the rug 
(50% chance), it may only inflict l h damage. 

B. In this aspect the rug remains where it is 
on the wall. Several strong, thick threads (2- 
12 strands, each 50 ft. long, of the carpet's 
frill-like edging). Attached to the end of each 
thread is a 1 ft. wide mouth with many teeth 
that seem especially made for severing and 
chewing. Each "mouth" will attack as a 6 HD 
monster, inflicting 2-7 points of damage per 
bite. Other statistics are as given in A, above. 

DAMAGING THE RUG: In either aspect, 
this rug is immune to spell attacks. Fire and 
weapon attacks affect it as follows: 

FIRE 

Torch: 1-6 points per hit 

Flask of burning oil: 2-8 points initially, 14 
points per round for the following three 
rounds 


Raging fire (bonfire, cask of oil, etc.): 2-12 
points per round in the fire; rug catches fire 
for six rounds, 2-8 points per round 
Magical fire: No effect! 

WEAPONS 

Pointed and blunt weapons inflict only the 
magical and character strength bonuses, if 
any, Sharp-edged weapons inflict those 
bonuses plus the following "normal" damage 
per hit: 


Dagger: 

1 

point 

Short sword/hand axe: 

1-2 

points 

Long sword: 

Bastard sword/edged 

14 

points 

pole arm: 

Battle axe/broads word/ 

1-6 

points 

halberd: 

1-8 

points 

Two-handed sword: 

1-10 points 


Tomorast's History 

Tomorast apparently settled into a life of study 
and debauchery around Maure Castle nearly 
ten years ago. He chose to elaborate on these 
dungeon levels since they were removed from 
the Castle, yet dose to it at the same time. 
Tomorast seeks more and more arcane knowl 
edge, It is indicated in his diary/journal that he 
has traveled far for the mystical knowledge he 
owns and uses. He has been many places, 
including a long-past visit to the Forgotten 
Temple of Tharizdun (Dungeon Module WG- 
4) some years back, where he was instructed 
by priests concerning the ways of hidden 
knowledge as taught by the once-powerful 
Tharizdun. Recently, he sought to return to a 
place he chanced upon in the past* a place 
named in a forgotten rhyme as 'The Lost City 
of the Elders/' 

It is written that the guardian demon Kerzit 
(Key #67), over which Tomorast holds sway, 
was captured by him at this Lost City-though 
the location of that unearthly realm is not 
given. Tomorast tinkers with artificing perma 
nent enchantments. Most of the kerns 
(cursed, magical, or trapped) located on these 
levels were constructed and/or enchanted by 
him-including the iron golem, the ivory pil 
lars, the accursed carpet, and the fire-pit trap. 

39. Peek Holes (#A-F) 

This area is lined with six round holes, each 6 
in. across, 7 ft. above the floor, and spaced at 
the intervals indicated on the map. 

These are the peek holes belonging to Re! 
(Key #40), Tomorast's unique familiar, who 
uses them to spy upon the corridors and 


16 










rooms surrounding Tomorast's chambers. 
There is a 75% chance that Rel is here at one 
of the spy holes (roll ld6 to determine which). 
He is otherwise located at Key #41, spying 
there. 

40. Study and 
Work Area 

This is Tomorast s area for study and storage. 
Located here are two copper urns, one small 
box f four barrels, four coffers, and a desk and 
chair. 

There is a 25% chance that Rei (AC 5 t MV 
9", HD 5, hp 31, #AT 1, Dmg 2-7, 5A surprise 
from behind on 1-4, pendant of invisibility, 
chain mail armor, spiked hammer) is hiding 
here behind the second copper urn. If Rel is 
not here, then he is at one of the peek hole 
areas (Key #39). Rel looks like a 2 ft. tall 
cyclopean dwarf with an umber tint to his skin. 
He wears a light suit of chain mail. Rel will try 
to surprise individuals when he attacks with 
his light spiked hammer. He will not attack 
unless the odds are in his favor (usually one- 
to-one) or if he is cornered, which is not likely. 
Rel has a pendant of invisibility, a magically 
enchanted diamond (worth 5,000 gp) set on a 
silver chain (worth 60 gp) and hung about his 
neck. Treat this item as an invisibility spell, 
except that Rel need only touch the gem to 
activate the power. Rel may disappear up to 
three times daily by using this device, but he 
usually reserves it for spying upon or escaping 
from unwanted and/or unannounced "com 
pany/* There is a good chance (80%) that he 
is aware of the characters' contest (if any) 
with his master, Tomorast, 

Rel is much interested in living (like quasits 
or imps) and will not sacrifice his life need 
lessly. He will remain hidden in this room until 
it is apparent that he is about to be discov 
ered. He will then turn invisible and make a 
dash for the peek hole tunnel, hoping to hide 
therein. If this fails, he will try to get past the 
intruders and into the remainder of the dun 
geon level. He will continue to follow the 
adventurers once they leave this area, seizing 
nearly any chance to damage them, and 
informing other dungeon inhabitants of their 
location. 

Item Descriptions 

Copper um # 1 : This um contains about 
20 pounds of black, sweet-smelling powder. A 
note, in the common tongue, lies atop the 
stuff, and clearly says "DO NOT EAT THIS! 11 


This is actually a massive amount of 
drugged incense. If characters breathe the 
fumes rising from this um for more than two 
rounds, a saving throw vs. poison is required. 
All those inhaling the fumes who fail their save 
will fall unconscious to the floor in a dream-like 
stupor. They will automatically awaken 1-3 
hours later, or when seriously prodded into 
wakefulness by their fellows by repeated 
slaps and dousings with water. 

The powder tastes delicious* If a handful or 
more is eaten, a saving throw vs. poison is 
required. If this is failed, the consumer dies 
immediately If the save is successful, how 
ever, the character will walk about in a dream 
like trance for 2-8 hours. During this time, he 
will not be able to perform even the most sim 
ple tasks. Conversation will be limited to a few 
garbled words, Attack or defense by the 
affected character is out of the question. If 
those in this hapless state are left alone, they 
could easily fall prey to beings inimical to 
them. If those affected are not continuously 
prompted to stay awake or to move (at half 
speed) they will fall to the floor and pass into a 
coma-like sleep, which is 50% likely to be 
fatal. 

Those eating less than a handful of this 
incense will undergo severe stomach cramps 
(no saving throw), and a general giddiness will 
be noted. Dehydration could occur, at a 40% 
chance per turn for 1-8 turns after ingestion. 
If dehydration occurs and if water is not con 
sumed (at least a pint per turn), dehydration 
will cause 1-3 points of damage each turn* 

Surprisingly, when the powder is burnt and 
smelled, no ill side effects will be noted. If 
sold, the 320 ounces present are worth 21-30 
gp per ounce. 

Copper um #2: When and if the players 
come near this um, Rel (who may be hiding 
here) will turn invisible and make a dash for 
freedom. There is nothing in the um. 

Small box: This box opens easily. It con 
tains 10 silver rings, worth 15, 30, 35, 70, 
100,150, 160, m 210, and 225 gp* The 35 
gp band radiates magic if checked for, and is a 
ring of weakness (DMG, page 132). 

Four Barrels: #1 contains dried fruit; #2 
contains salted meat; #3 contains pickled veg 
etables ; #4 has a cup set atop the openable lid, 
and contains water. 

Coffer #1: This contains 750 sp, 376 ep 
and 500 gp* 


Coffer #2: This contains 282 gems: 50 
tourmalines (base 500 gp), 32 peridots (base 
100 gp), 47 zircons (50 gp each), and 103 tiger 
eyes (10 gp each). The listed values for the 
zircons and the tiger eyes have no chance of 
increasing* 

Coffer #3: In this are many ring-mail 
links. These radiate magic and actually make 
up a whole suit of disassembled ring mail +3. If 
reconstructed (at the cost of hiring an 
armorer and tailor), it may be worn by a 
human. 

Coffer #4: Wrapped in black felt is an amu 
let of inescapable location (DMG, page 137). 

Desk and chair: These are located 
against the southern wall. The chair is of nor 
mal make and nearly valueless. The desk has 
quill pens, bottles of regular ink. a box with 
white crystals (salt for the inks), a tube con 
taining crushed and mixed gemstones (for 
book or scroll decoration) atop it, and many 
sheaves of papyrus are spread about. The 
drawers contain the same sort of miscellany* 
However, a small secret compartment 
(located on the desk's underside) contains an 
ebony ring carved from obsidian, which radi 
ates magic* One charge from this ring will pro 
tect the wearer against either physical or 
magical attacks (wearer's choice) from things 
demonic or diabolic (demons, imps, et a/*) for 
1 turn* Thus, a11 physical blows from a demon 
could be negated during a round, not harming 
the wearer of this ring. Magical attacks could 
be likewise negated for the same period of 
time* This ring has 23 charges left. It func 
tions but once every 7 days, during the 
interim being useless. It is worth 10,000 gp if 
sold to those interested in such magics (those 
of lawful good alignment in most cases)* 


41. Peek Holes (#g-l) 

These correspond to the peek holes listed and 
described at Key #39* There is a 25% chance 
that Rel will be here if he Is not at Key #40* He 
is otherwise at #39* 


42. Old Prison Room 

The doors to this room are padlocked and 
rusty. Inside are the long-dead skeletal 
remains of three humans, shackled to the 
wall* Scratched upon these walls are various 
graffiti and a date, CY (common year) 457. 


17 














43. Abandoned Room 

This dusty circular chamber has a chest near 
its center. There is nothing else here except 
doors to the east and west* 

This 20 ft. diameter room is avoided by the 
inhabitants of this dungeon level* The 5 ft* 
radius area about the chest is an inlaid pres 
sure-sensitive plate. When the plate is 
stepped upon, sleep gas starts issuing from 
around the sides of the chest, filling the room 
in three segments. Those within its confines 
must make a saving throw vs* spell or fall to 
the floor for 24 turns of slumber. There is 
nothing in the chest, but if moved, the players 
will note two V 2 in* round holes beneath it t 
obviously from which the gas issues. This trap 
automatically resets itself every three hours, 
but if the holes are exposed, the room will 
become permanently filled with Lhe gas. 

44. Chamber of 
Black Smoke 

This area's dimensions cannot be easily ascer 
tained, for it is enveloped in a thick fog of black 
smoke that does not extend beyond the 
rooms perimeter! 

Directional mapping in this room is impossible 
without the aid of spells* The smoke is heavy 
upon the lungs of the characters, but does not 
seem to adversely affect them. It will be noted 
that a higher concentration of this smoke is to 
the north (left, as the adventurers enter the 
room). Though unaided vision beyond 1 ft. is 
impossible* spells which aid or increase sight will 
function normally here. Bright light near the 
characters will blind them for as long as the light 
remains about them* As the party investigates 
these confines, three slow-shadows (see 
Appendix 2; AC 8, MV 12*. HD 4, hp 15, 21, 
23, #AT 1, Pmg 14, SA attachment equals shw 
spell until removed, SD *2 or better weapons to 
hit) will attach themselves to the unsuspecting 
characters* These things will move onto the 
characters unnoticed due to the obscurement of 
the fog* They will cause an initial 14 points 
numbing damage (DMs should convince those 
so attacked that it may have been a portion of the 
room or smoke that they stepped in or through); 
the attachment is then complete* The slow 
shadows wfl] blend into the characters' clothing, 
undetectable as natural shading among the folds 
of the material. They will also slow their victims 
by 50% for as long as they remain attached, and 
inflict 14 points of cold damage per round. 

This room contains nothing besides the 
smoke and the shadows* 


45. Mud Room 

This 25 ft. diameter circular room appears to 
be covered from top to bottom with mud or 
dirt. The room emits a chill which is transmit 
ted to all as the door is opened. 

This is actually a gargantuan deposit of 
brown mold (AC 9, MV 0*. MT 0 T SA 4-32 
points of frost damage to all within 5 ft*, SD 
affected only by magical cold; growth will 
move the mold mass 5 ft* into the hallway) to 
which Tomorast feeds prisoners to increase 
its size. 

Because of the size of this colony, all heat 
sources (lit torches, lanterns, etc,) in the 
front rank will go out as the door to the room 
is opened. Characters in the front rank will 
sustain 4-32 points of damage during Lhe first 
round, and the mass will move closer. The 
adventurers must retreat to avoid certain 
death. 

Nothing of value exists within the room. 

46. Fighters* Quarters 

This room is well-lit by torches and lamps* 
Gathered around a table heaped with food and 
drink are many staunch fighter types (F 4, AC 
6, MV 9\ hp 20, 21, 22, 23 , 24, 25, 26 , 27, 
28* #AT 1. Dmg 1-8, average abilities, stud 
ded leather armor, round shields* longs words, 
daggers, 40-160 (4d4 xlO) gp each) wearing 
leather jerkins. Bunk beds and other 
paraphenalia are positioned about the room. 

Roll ld6, A result of 14 indicates that one 
randomly chosen fighter is in transit from Key 
#33 with tonight's dessert, Ef so, he will arrive 
14 rounds after the. party's entrance into this 
room, joining the other eight fighters. The 
fighters will engage the characters in combat, 
but will flee or surrender if their numbers are 
reduced by half* 

Each fighter has something of value hidden 
in the room. Most of these items have been 
secreted, for these men do not trust one 
another. 

Fighter #1 has a gold cup worth 275 gp 
hidden in a pillow on his bunk. 

Fighter #2 has an earring on his left ear 
which is hidden by his shaggy hair and helmet* 
It is fashioned from platinum and inset with a 
sapphire, having a total value of 1,570 gp. 

Fighter #3 has hidden a vial (potion of 
umfead control) in a hollowed leg of the dinner 
table. 

Fighter #4 has a small gold plaque hidden 
in his right boot. It has some gibberish written 


upon it which may appear to be a spell or runic 
inscription of some sort. It is worth 290 gp. 

Fighter #5 has a silver and gold bracelet 
(worth 400 gp) about his wrist, covered from 
sight by his jerkin's cuff. 

Fighter #6 has a small sack containing 127 
pp hidden beneath a heap of clothes near his 
bunk. 

Fighter #7 openly wears a gem-studded 
gauntlet (cheaper cuts of topaz) worth 865 gp. 

Fighter #8 has an ebony-capped teak wood 
walking stick, worth 170 gp, next to his bed. 

Fighter #9 has, hidden on his body, a map 
that shows the way to the secret stairs down, 
20 ft. south of Key #38. It is in an ivory case 
worth 175 gp* 

47. The Purple Stone 

Behind this secret door is a 10 ft* iong t 4 ft. 
high, 3 ft. wide oblong purple stone. It seems 
to pulsate with an inner light shed dimly from 
it as the room is entered. 

When characters approach within 2-5 ft. of 
this stone, a purple light will issue forth upon 
them* Find each character's intelligence and 
consult the listing below for the effects caused 
by this illumination. 

Intelligence 
Score Result 

3-12 The character sees visions of an 

undecipherable future event. 
Some of these visions indicate 
that a dark foe is following the 
party; others point toward a 
possible renegade/turncoat 
among them who will desert or 
harm one or more of the party 
members in the near future. 
Although these visions are mor 
bid and seem revealing to the 
players, they are not true, 

13-15 The character receives one of 
the abilities given below, The 
ability is usable 4 times, and 
then dissipates and is forever 
gone. Roll ld4: 

1* FSPas per the spell, 

2* Clairaudience as per the 
spell* 

3* Clairvoyance as per the 
spell* 


18 










4, Commune once per day as 
per the spell. 

16-18 The character is prompted to 
ask one question. The stone will 
communicate its answer tele- 
pathically to the character. 
Areas of questioning are limited 
to this dungeon and those 
beings, items, places, or gen 
eral knowledge regarding its 
history, and so forth. If the 
player asks a question such as 
"Where is the closest set of 
stairs down?" the stone will 
grant this knowledge in the 
form of a telepathic vision that 
will remain in the character's 
memory. However, if the player 
becomes greedy and asks a 
question such as "What are all 
of the locations of every crea 
ture on this level and how can 
we easily kill them?" the char 
acter will receive a short tele 
pathic insinuation which 


resembles "\bu must be kid 
ding! " This counts as a question 
answered. The stone will 
answer but three questions in 
all. If any character gets no 
answer due to this limitation, an 
ability will be given instead, as 
detailed above. 

19+ The character is much 
respected by the stone, which 
will allow him to ask ten "yes/ 
no/maybe" questions that per 
tain to the three levels of this 
complex. The "maybe Tr (or 
^you're getting warmer") 
answers should be hints or sug 
gestions toward another line of 
questioning which might lead to 
the answers sought. 

Each character may gain one of the above 
listed powers, information, visions, etc,, a 
maximum of once per week. The stone will 
not react to further pleas from those wanting 
more. If the stone is threatened with may 


hem, it will unleash as many feeblemind spells 
as there are attackers. There is no saving 
throw or protection against this effect. The 
Purple Stone always wins initiative* no matter 
what numbers or types of dexterity' and/or 
magics are involved, for it is always aware of 
the characters' thoughts and remains ulti 
mately one step ahead of their actions. The 
Purple Stone can sustain 32 hp of damage and 
is AC 3. If destroyed or removed from this 
room, it will immediately cease to function, 
and all knowledge and/or powers gained 
through its actions will be wiped dean, as if 
they had never existed. 



19 

























ey to the thiRO Level 



General Notes 

The overall appearance of this level suggests 
that the stonework here is relatively new (12 
years old). The granite seems less worn by 
time, and is better worked than on the pre 
vious two dungeon levels. Corridor width 
remains the standard 10 ft, while the ceiling 
height is 15 ft, unless specified otherwise. AH 
doors are 7 ft, wide, fashioned from 3 in. thick 
oak bound with metal, and open inward unless 
noted otherwise. 


(and only those, for the gnolls are too scared 
of the colchiin at Key #54 and too distrustful of 
the magic-users at Key #60 to bother them). 

There is a great quantity of dung, bones, 
skulls, moldy furs and vegetable matter, and 
an assortment of other broken, discarded and 
unusable material located here. It will take the 
characters 2-4 turns of digging to discover 
that the articles here are all worthless. 

50. Storage Room 


48. Secret Room 

A small podium is located at the center of this 
room, and wooden benches are placed along 
the north, northeast and south walls. Many 
wooden pegs are driven into the walls above 
these benches. 

This is a secret congregation room for all 
those who follow Tomorast's fake religion. 
The pegs are obviously meant to hang articles 
of clothing upon. On the podium is a scroll 
fashioned from what appears to be reptile skin 
of some species unknown to the characters. A 
chant of some sort (written in the evil align 
ment tongue) appears on its surface. If inter 
preted, most of it merely offers a welcome to 
those new "initiates" who follow the Cause of 
the Elders. The ending seems to be the most 
interesting: 

"May those who don Masks of Chaos 
THE ELDERS by names transcended 
darken paths by which to guide us 
lighting those that blaspheme others 
that is known to us save one- 
KER2IT! KERZIT!! KERZJTI!!" 

49. GnollRoom 

This room reeks of dung and decayed refuse. 
Within is a large grouping of gnolls who readily 
attack intruders. 

The 16 gnolls (AC 5, MV 9", HD 2, hp 12 
each, #AT 1, Dmg 2-7, leather armor, wooden 
shields, flails) are more of TomorasCs ser 
vants: they dig tunnels for him to increase the 
dimensions of the stronghold* These crea 
tures will attack until reduced 50% in number. 
The remainder will then attempt an orderly 
retreat out of the room, and exit out the 
secret door to the north. Those who escape 
will unite with the gnolls at Key #52 t where 
they will ail wait to ambush the characters 
near Keys #52 and #53. Whether the charac 
ters fight them or not, the gnolls will alert 
those in Keys #38a and #40 to the intrusion 


This room is heaped with three boxes, four 
chests, three kegs, twelve beams of wood, a 
number of picks, shovels, hammers, axes, 
crates, a variety of weapons, and dun- 
geoneering equipment that includes sacks, 
poles, backpacks, rope, and two block and 
tackle sets. 

The boxes and chests are empty except for 
a few shards of wood and metal in each. The 
twelve 15 ft. long beams are made of stained 
black mahogany. Each is notched at the ends, 
obviously intended to be used as a crossbeam 
support for a room. The crates contain disas 
sembled, sanded and crafted teakwood 
church pews. The three kegs have the follow 
ing contents: 

1. 20 gallons of wood lacquer finish 

2. 3 bolts of black doth, 30 ft. x 20 ft. 
unrolled 

3. Thousands of wooden pegs, bronze 
bolts, and iron nails. 


The remaining room contents include: 


three picks 
five axes 
four bardiches 

eight throwing 
spears 

two quarrel cases 
four long daggers 
three 10-foot 
poles 


seven shovels 
three longswords 
seven thrusting 
spears 
twelve light 
crossbows 
ninety-six quarrels 
two small sacks 
twelve large 
backpacks 


120 ft. of rope (3 coils) 
two block and tackle sets with an extra 
20 ft. of rope each 
one normal lantern with no fuel 
one hullseye lantern with a three hour 
supply of fuel 


51. Refuse Pit 

This well is 8 ft, across and can be seen to dis 
appear down and out of sight. A strong stench 
is rising from below. 


This 80 ft. deep pit was once used as a well, 
but has been subsequently filled in and used as 
a disposal pit for garbage and corpses. If a 
character climbs down to the bottom of this 
foul place, a tangle of garbage, dung, bones, 
bodies, and other refuse may be found. Some 
of the bodies were apparently sacrificed 1-3 
days ago, and all their important organs are 
missing. Those staying near the bottom of 
this pit for more than three rounds may con 
tract a disease {saving throw vs. poison to 
avoid) which, over four days, will cause the 
loss of all hair, a yellow skin discoloration* and 
will necessitate two system shock rolls. If one 
roll is failed, the character loses 1-4 points of 
constitution permanently. A second failure 
causes immediate death. Even if both of these 
rolls are successful, the character will die 3-30 
days later unless healed by a cure disease 
spell 

There is otherwise nothing of use or inter 
est here. 


52. Empty Room 

This area seems unused. A smell of charred 
meat and smoke issues from the northern cor 
ridor 

Tills is an ambush area that will be used by 
the gnolls in Key #53. Half of the remaining 
gnolls may be encountered here. 

53. Red-Lit Chamber 

This room is smoke-filled, and the dying 
embers of a recent fire can be seen near a pile 
of wood in the center. The smeU of burnt meat 
permeates the air. Many tall, dark figures can 
be seen about the interior 

If these gnolls were alerted during the 
intrusion of the characters at Key #49, they 
will have an ambush ready at Key #53 with 
half of their numbers* the other half remaining 
alert and in reserve here. In this case, the 
gnolls cannot be surprised, since they are fully 
prepared. 

The 16 gnolls (AC 5, MV 9\ HD 2* hp 12 
each, #AT 1, Dmg 2-8, flails, leather armor, 
and wooden square shields) have just finished 
a feast of roast meat, They will immediately 
attack, shouting wild and evil curses at the 
party while so doing. As these gnolls have no 
possible escape route, they will fight to the 
bitter end, their morale unaffected by any 
losses. Other than their weapons and a scrap 
or two of unidentifiable meat, they hold noth 
ing of worth. 


20 



54* Junk Room 

This room is laden with all kinds of junk and 
some useful-looking material, but before the 
characters may view the contents of the room 
fully, they are leapt upon and attacked by eight 
silent blackish figures who have been hidden 
unnoticed. 

These 8 colchiln (see Appendix 2; AC 4 r 
MV 10\ HD 6, hp 20, 24, 24, 27, 28, 30, 30, 
32, #AT 2* Dmg 4-9 per claw, Str 18/75 but 
with no bonus to hit, SA surprise % of the 
time because of silent movement, SD 20% 
magical resistance) are demonspawn, the 
guardians of this room* Each monster is a 4 ft. 
tall bipedal black humanoid with scaled skin, 
lidless white bulbous eyes, and a mouth which 
sports a serpent-like, forked red tongue but 
no teeth. Its four-fingered hands have claws 
with the hardness of iron. These creatures 
will aggressively fight to the death, having a 
limited mind and will that is controlled by a 
more powerful creature (such as a demon or 
like denizen of the Outer Planes of Exist 
ence), 

Upon inspection, this room seems to be a 
littering ground for junk objects, much too 
numerous for the characters to examine fully. 
Some of the more interesting items are three 
broken jugs (two wooden, one clay); three 
small cushions (roughly 2 ft* square), which 
will require one full round each to check; four 
large (6 ft. x 4 ft. x 2 ft.) chests; one broken 
wine cask; three rolls of cotton-like material 
(see below); two broken swords (see below); 
four glass bottles (see below); one 5 ft. x 5 ft. 
x 3 ft. iron-banded crate (see below); a shat 
tered spear; two sheaves of smudged and par 
tially burnt papyrus: two pairs of moldy boots 
{one boot missing a heel); a flattened, crushed 
object which at one time could have been a 
workable lantern; and a small pouch with 
spoiled onions and garlic within it* 

Cotton-like material: Hidden inside the 
second roll are potions of cloud giant strength 
and treasure finding. After the material is fully 
described, note whether the characters 
examine it immediately* If they do not, and 
continue with other objects, there is a 25% 
chance that the roll containing the potions will 
be stepped on and the bottles broken. 

Broken swords: 1) Shortsword; its blade 
is broken, but imbedded in its hilt are seven 
aquamarine gems (base value 100 gp). 2) 
Longsword; this is broken at the lower grip 
ring. Its hilt lies next to the blade, and appears 
to be filigreed platinum, worth 557 gp. 


Glass bottles: One is broken, two con 
tain stagnant water, and one is stoppered and 
has within it a dear but unstable liquid. When 
unstoppered, this acidic substance starts to 
bubble and fizz. Even if the bottle is immedi 
ately re-stoppered, this liquid will cause an 
explosion in a 10 ft. radius in 1-8 segments* 
Those within this area take 140 points of 
damage each (no saving throw). 

Iron-banded crate: This crate ap 
pears to contain nothing* A board on the inside 
bottom is loose, and. if this is found by a suc 
cessful check for secret doors and pressed 
down upon, an unseen spring mechanism will 
be activated, loosening one of the crate's cor 
ners. If this comer is subsequently checked* a 
4 ft* section will feel noticeably loose. Once 
this piece is detached, a compartment is 
revealed. Inside is the Sword of the Ebon 
Flame (described in Appendix 1). 

55. Torture Chamber 

This appears to be a classic torture chamber. 
Two hooded figures in black robes stand 
before an older man who is strapped in a chair. 
This ancient fellow appears to be battered and 
bruised. 

These torturers are Killers (A 6, AC 3 from 
armor and 18 dexterity. MV 12 \ hp 24, 26, 
#AT 1, Dmg 14 or 1-8, MS 47%. HS 37%, 
HN 20%; CW 92%; other abilities average, 
SA poison daggers: 2 throwing daggers each, 
poisoned daggers in boots; longswords. 1 vial 
each containing 3 applications of contact poi 
son for daggers, SD studded leather armor 
beneath robes). 

These np-goods will flee if outnumbered by 
2 to 1 or more. They will hide in any part of 
this dungeon from where they can view the 
characters leaving their chambers. They will 
then follow, hoping for an opportunity to 
ambush the party. When the party is weak 
ened or otherwise occupied, these unsavory 
fellows will backstab with poisoned daggers. 
Even if the party leaves this room by a door 
not watched by the assassins, it is 75% likely 
that they will be spotted and followed in 14 
turns, since the assassins are very familiar 
with this dungeon level. It is 25% likely that 
the assassins will maintain pursuit to the 
upper levels- During such tracking and 
planned ambush, it is unlikely that these two 
will alert other inhabitants of this complex, 
preferring to "go it alone" for professional as 
well as egotistical reasons* 

The room is lit by torches set in sconces, 
inside and to the left of each door to this room, 


All torches are lit. The inner part of the cham 
ber has a table with a brazier with unlit coals 
inside, a branding iron, and a hot poker set 
upon it. Strapped across a chair beside the 
table are leather thongs and a studded leather 
glove. Many shackles and ropes are hanging 
from the ceiling; a section of rope is sus 
pended from a pulley. In the four odd-angled 
comers are the cells, empty at this time. The 
keys to these are kept out of reach on wall 
pegs next to them* The old man strapped in 
the chair will not speak, and is in a stupor. His 
head and neck appear greatly bruised, and his 
tongue is split; thus, he cannot talk even when 
revived* 

Unless this man is healed within one day's 
time, he will die* A cure serious wounds spell 
applied to his tongue will serve to mend it, so 
that he may speak once again* He may not 
communicate otherwise, since he is unskilled 
and cannot read or write* If cured, he will 
explain that he is a common tinkerer named 
Arnelson, who was captured the week before 
while traveling from his home village, Orz 
(near Hardby), to the Free City of Grey hawk 
to attend the monthly merchant's fest com 
mon to that city. His cargo consisted only of 
copper pots and pans and other linker's items, 
and he cannot surmise why he was kidnapped 
and tortured so, other than for the morbid 
entertainment derived by his captors from 
such an event* 

Arnelson has learned such information as 
was discussed by the assassins. He knows 
that Tomorast's minions are few, and that the 
mage relies on many hidden powers anistrat 
agems to help secure those things he covets 
or that be wishes removed from his sphere of 
influence. It was mentioned by his torturers 
that many of the wizard's servants have disap 
peared without a trace. Rumors about these 
events center around the idea that Tomorast 
might be sacrificing his own followers to an 
unnamed entity. He will reveal the direction to 
this entity, either south or west* He says that 
he learned this direction when he lay feigning 
sleep one day while the assassins talked* 
Arnelson will be very grateful when removed 
from the dungeon. He will invite the adventur 
ers to drop in anytime at his "Tiny Tinkers" 
shop, located between the merchants' and 
peasants' sections of Orz. 

56. Robe Rooms 

These rooms have many black robes hung 
upon the walls. There are approximately 20 
hooded robes per room, worn by followers of 
Tomorast; they are usually donned just before 






proceeding to those various areas which are 
pre-ceremonial in nature (Keys #34 and 
#4 2b). 

57. Torchlight 

Upon reaching this spot, characters see light 
from torches (see Key #58), 

58. Torches 

This hallway is covered with thick black car 
peting and illuminated by 24 sconce-held 
torches. Twelve are set upon the east wall and 
twelve upon the west wall, extending up the 
corridor at 2 Hz ft. intervals, 

59. Antechamber 

This room contains a single torch that sheds 
its light upon a checkered glass mosaic along 
the northern wall. The light from the torches 
at Key #58 reflects off the mosaic, illuminat 
ing the room in a variegated mass of colors, 
including light reds, dull oranges, off-whites, 
stony greys, and soft blues. The floors are 
covered with the same black carpet seen in 
the hallway. Twenty large, black pillows are 
spread everywhere. Burgundy-stained 


wooden stands adorn the comers; a brass 
incense burner is on each stand. 

There is no one currently here, though if 
the characters remain in this room for more 
than three turns, one or more of the magic- 
users from Key #60 will arrive. Roll ld6 and 
consult the table below for those who arrive 
and what the situation will be at that time: 

1. One magic-user arrives (DM's choice); 
normal surprise and reaction rolls apply. 

2. One magic-user (DM's choice) arrives and 
has seen the party from Key #58, He will cau 
tiously investigate and enter the room with a 
spell ready, thinking that they might he other 
inhabitants of this complex. 

3-5. Two to four of the magic-users (DIVFs 
choice) have seen the party. They will attack 
and may (50%) surprise the characters if the 
party has not taken precautions . 

6. All of the magic-users from Key #60 arrive 
undetected outside the room. They will wait 
for the party to exit the room and will try to 
ambush them, surprising the party on a roll of 
1-4 on ld6, 

60. Magic-Users' Room 

This room is dimly lit by several candles 
located on a small table. Five men in magic- 


user dress confront the characters as they 
enter. 

Hogh, Shryg* Blanesh, Dovrah, and Iksil 
live a secluded and rigidly ascetic lifestyle 
here. When and if intruded upon* they will 
react accordingly, throwing such spells that 
are proper for the situation, Hogh is the most 
experienced of them all and has a fireball spell 
aL his disposal. He has always wanted to use 
this magnificent "fire bomb" (as he calls it) 
when bragging to his companions* but has 
never had the opportunity to do so. 

When the characters open the door to this 
room, Hogh will immediately (without another 
thought) throw his fireball down the hallway 
behind the characters, knowing that the blast 
will conform to that area. Hogh will receive a 
+1 bonus to initiative to do this, for he has 
studied and practiced this spell repeatedly, 
However, because of this "rushing" of the 
spell, Hogh may fail to complete lie verbal 
and somatic parts of it correctly (roll ld4 to 
determine a 10-40% chance of Mure, then 
roll d% to determine whether the spell fails). 
If failure is indicated, roll ld20 and then d% to 
find the end result; if "Reverse Effect" is indi 
cated, the fireball goes off behind Hogh, in the 
room! 



22 























Dice 

Roll 

Spell 

Fails 

Reverse 

Effect 

1* 3 

01-95 

96-00 

4* 6 

01-85 

86-00 

7- 9 

01-75 

76-00 

10-12 

01-65 

6600 

13-15 

01-50 

51-00 

16*20 

01-30 

31-00 


Shryg, Blanesh, Dovrah, and IksU will not 
be slow in reacting to the menace. They will 
use every spell they carry to control, damage, 
and kill the party If their numbers are reduced 
to below 50% t they may attempt to flee or 
surrender. However, if they have somehow 
deduced that their assailants are of lawful 
good alignment, they will fight to the death 
rather than give in to "these swine! ,T 

All of the magic-users are of high intelli 
gence* with other ability scores average 
unless noted otherwise. Each wears normal 
robes (MV 12*) and has a normal dagger 
(Dmg 1-4/1*3). 

Hogh: MU 5, AC 8, hp 13, D 16. 

Spells; 

Level 1: jump, magic missile (x2), shield 
Level 2; invisibility pyrotechnics 
Level 3: Sreball 

Shryg: MU 4, AC 9. hp 11, D 15, W 18 H 
bonus). 

Spells: 

Level 1: charm person * friends, 
protection from good 

Level 2: levitate, web 
Blanesh; MU 2, AC 9, hp6, D 15. 
Spells: 

Level 1: burning hands, magic missile 
Dovrah: MU 2, AC 7, hp 5, D 17. 
Spells: 

Level 1: hold portal, push 
Iksil: MU 1, AC 10, hp 3, D 11. 

Spell: 

Level 1: unseen servant 

Contained here are five small beds of straw, 
a small table, five wooden stools, and a coffer. 
Inside the coffer are the collected possessions 
of these magic-users, including 150 cp, 370 
sp, 86 gp, two loaves of stale bread* dried 
vegetables, a small cask of water, and five tin 
drinking cups. 


6i. The Chapel 

This entire area is lit by lanterns suspended 
from the ceiling at 20 ft. intervals. Pews are 
arranged facing a raised pulpit and altar area. 
There are four sections * each with five pews 
that seat six per pew* for a total capacity of 
120 people. The first three rows of pews look 
more worn and used than the remainder, sug 
gesting that the congregation is scanty at 
best. 


62. Pulpit/Altar Area 

Stairs lead up to a pulpit where services for 
the followers in this complex are held. To the 
right and left of the pulpit are 3 ft. tall granite 
statues depicting slaves bowing in submis 
sion. Behind these is a granite altar. The altar 
is 10 ft. long by 4 ft. wide, and has a silver 
ewer and an obsidian ritual dagger upon it. 
The ewer and altar are caked with dry blood, 
while the dagger has been used often and 
retains some stains. (If cleaned and sold, the 
ewer will bring 220 gp but the dagger is only 
worth 35 gp.) 


63. Walkway 

A 5 ft. high raised walkway leads south from 
Key #62. This walkway ends in front of two 2 
ft. tall statues standing against the southern 
wall. 

These statues are carved from a greenish 
porphory and depict two wolf-headed men. 
Each holds a whip shaped like an octopus ten 
tacle. If the statues' whips are both pulled 
down* a 6 ft. wide secret door located 
between these statues will swing open, 
revealing a 10 ft. wide passage heading south. 


64. Marble 
Fresco Room 

The walls and floor here consist of carefully 
inlaid 5 ft. x 5 ft. square slabs of black marble. 
A large silver and black fresco covers the 
entire eastern wall. Depicted here is a silver 
masked human who is offering a bowl to an 
amorphous black shape. This entity's full fea 
tures cannot be deciphered due to a (deliber 
ately?) poor rendering by the artist. This tall* 
many-armed creature appears to be in a wait 
ing pose. 


65. Dressing Room 

This appears to be a preparation room of 
some sort. The table here bears several 
objects. 

This is where Tomorast readies himself to 
visit Kerzit* the demon of the caverns. 
Tomorasl always dons the vestments seen on 
the table: a pure black undecorated robe, a 
solid silver face mask (worth 450 gp) carved in 
the likeness of a leering wolf-headed being 
with black fangs, a long iron dagger *,3 , a solid 
black onyx ring (worth 236 gp), and a pure sil 
ver staff capped with an onyx skull (worth 
1 * 212 gp). The weight of all these items slows 
Tomorast's movement rate to 9*. During his 
slow procession through these caverns, 
Tomorast must chant a repetitive verse 
(known to him alone) containing the demon's 
name. As long as he continues this incanta 
tion, the demon will remain at a safe distance 
from him (10-30 ft.) and not attack. 

His first task when he visits Kerzit is to ren 
der a sacrifice to the demon, and then, still 
chanting, proceed to Key #67b to recover the 
Tb/ne of the Black Heart , as he has done many 
times in the past. He then returns, still chant 
ing, to Key #66, and reads this volume for 
three days without rest. Then, resuming his 
chant, he returns it to Key #67b. His stamina 
wanes-if he makes a but a single mistake 
(1% chance upon initial entry and 2-12% upon 
his return), the demon will attack him with 
great vigor. 

66 . Study 

A simple black curtain covers the entrance to 
this room, which is painted dull black. Located 
here are a small table, a chair, several candles, 
a scattering of scrolls and small librams, a cask 
of water* and a silver cup. 

Tomorast uses this fasting and study area 
after he has procured the Tome of the Black 
Heart from the caverns (see Key #45a). 
Sequestered here, he reads and studies this 
volume for three days straight* partaking of 
nothing but water from the cask. The silver 
cup is the only valuable item here (worth 50 
gp). The scrolls and tomes are aU discarded 
materials from earlier studies. None make 
sense or have any power or value. 

67. Charnel Caverns 

This area is rough-hewn and reeks of charnel 
stenches. Bones, skulls, and some complete 
skeletal remains are present. Rats mingle in 


23 









this ghoulish debris, but scamper off at the 
slightest movement or sound. 

Roll 1 dlO to determine the current where 
abouts of Kerzit the Demon. (For complete 
statistics and a description of this horrible 
demon, refer to Appendix 2.) 

Dice Roll Demon Location 

1- 2 Key #67a 

3- 4 Key #67b 

5- 6 Key #67c 

7- 8 Key #67d 

9 10 Key #67e 

If Kerzit is at Key #67a when the characters 
arrive, it will immediately engage them in 
combat (see details below). Otherwise, for 
every 50 ft. the party moves within these cav 
erns, roll ld6; if the result is 6* Kerzit finds 
the party. They will become aware of the 
demon s approach unless they are extremely 
noisy, for an audible clicking sound resonates 
within 20 ft. of the demon due to its taloned 
paws on the stony floors. 

Attack Routine: This demon relies on 
overpowering its opponents through melee. It 
is intelligent and, although protected from 


spells to a certain extent, will always be cau 
tious and wary of spell casters. Jf confronted 
in force by fighters and spell casters at once, 
Kerzit will gate lesser demons to combat 
them. Kerzit always concentrates its efforts 
upon the seemingly strongest adversary. If 
met with too strong a battle, the demon will 
teleport away, ending the encounter. 

If the adventurers flee, Kerzit will pursue 
them while they remain in its caverns. It will 
not proceed beyond the rough-hewn area {see 
map) unless Tomorast is killed or the book is 
stolen. If Tomorast is killed, Kerzit will lose its 
sole purpose for remaining on this plane, and 
may {75%) teleport with the Tome to parts 
unknown, or (25%) rampage through the dun 
geon complex for one full day, killing all living 
creatures it encounters, and then depart with 
the book. If the Tome is stolen or destroyed. 
Kerzit will be driven insane, having lost the 
purpose for which it was summoned. In this 
case, it will vent its fury upon the inhabitants 
of these dungeon levels (although it will not 
attack the iron golem) and then proceed to the 
outdoors, heading toward (roD ld6): 1-3 * 
Grevhawk Citv, 4-5 = Hardby* 6 = the Bright 
Desert (see THE WORLD OF GREYHAWK(tm) 
Fantasy Game Setting). 


67B. Dead-End 

Several bones are heaped about this dead-end 
area. Rats scuttle into holes. A square iron 
box, 18 in. x 18 in. x 18 in., lies upon a slab of 
stone near the northwestern wall. 

If Kerzit is not here, the characters may 
immediately view the contents of this iron 
box. Inside is a damp, leather-bound volume. 
Its timeworn title is barely visible on the 
cover: The Tome of the Black Heart 

This book has no named author, and 
although evilly wrought, it may be handled by 
a member of any class or alignment without 
fear of harm. A short history' of the Tome is 
given in Appendix 1. Interested DMs may 
expand on the information given, for many an 
adventure could be garnered from its mere 
perusal! 



24 

















ppenOix 

v* 



magic items 


Dust of Dullness 

This appears to be normal silty dust* One 
large pinch will affect one man-sized creature; 
a handful can affect 2-5 man-sized creatures. 
It may be thrown up to 10 ft., cascading down 
upon intended targets, When this dust is cast 
upon any living creature with senses (sight, 
taste, hearing, touch, smell, and/or a "sixth 
sense 1 ' such as psionics or magic that pro 
vides unusual sensory capabilities); Roll ld6* 
and consult the table below. The number 
railed affects all senses with a a number equal 
to or lower than the result. (Example : A roll of 
3 would affect Sight, Taste, and Hearing.) 
Consult the descriptions that follow for the full 
effect. 

1 Sight 

2 Taste 

3 Hearing 

4 Touch 

5 Smell 

6 "Sixth Sense" 

Sight: Vision is blurred for 1-6 hours. Roll 
ldlQ to determine the severity; 

1-3 -3 penalty to hit 

4-3 -5 penalty to hit and penalty to 

movement rate; attempts at faster 
movement result in a stumble and 
fall, for no damage. 

9-0 Blinded 

Taste: The victim loses all ability to taste 
things for 1-6 hours. 

Hearing: The victim is deaf for 1-6 turns; 
a -1 penalty applies to ail initiative rolls, and 
the victim suffers a 50% chance of being sur 
prised in situations where sound (footsteps, 
howling, etc.) is the primary factor. Unless 
some non-aura] signaling method is used, the 
victim will not react to unseen situations until 
after a 1-4 segment delay (or until physically 
warned by other characters). 

Touch: The victim cannot feel anything for 
1-6 turns, including being touched, burned* 
frozen, etc. A penalty of -3* applies to the 
movement rate* and any attempt at running 
results in a stumble and fall (for no damage) 
within one round. Dexterity is temporarily 
penalized by -2 points. When holding objects 
in hand, there is a 30% chance per object held 
of dropping it, checked each turn and when 
ever an item is used. 

Smell: The victim loses all olfactory facul 
ties for 1-6 turns, and cannot smell anything (a 
boon when investigating garbage heaps!). 


Sixth Senses: The victim may not 
receive* transmit* use* or interpret psychic, 
magical, or psionic powers for 1-6 turns. AH 
those functions related to dreams, intuitions* 
"hunches" extra sensory perceptions, and/or 
magical spells or items that would produce, 
heighten, or elaborate upon these areas are 
"wiped clean" from the victim's mind. No tel 
epathic or empathie communication is possi 
ble. Spells affected are listed below. Magical 
items that resemble these spells are treated 
in the same way, and their use is not possible. 

Spells affected/negated: 

Cleric: All detect spells, find traps. know 
alignment, locate object, diwnaLion, 
commune , true seeing * find the path , 
and stone tefi, 

Druid: All detect spells* locate animals, 
locate plants, and commune with nat 
ure. 

Magic-user: All detect spells* identify', locate 
object, dairaudience, clairvoy 
ance, ESP, suggestion, wizard 
eye, contact other plane, teleki 
nesis, legend lore, and mind 
blank. 

Illusionist: All detect spells, non-detection, 
s ugges tion , ma ss s ugges tion . 
true sight * and vision. 

Potion of Controlling 
Damage 

This potion is usable by all classes. When it is 
imbibed, the effects are realized immediately. 
Damage to the user is lessened by 2 points 
per hit die of any damage dealt after drinking 
the potion, including damage from spells* 
weapons, falling, etc. When damage caused 
by combat is given only as "points *" and not 
"hit dice of damage" the potion negates one- 
third of the total. The duration is 3-24 rounds. 

Sword of the Ebon 
Flame 

This longsword +2 f *4 vs. lawful good align 
ment, is evil, usable by all evil alignments. It is 
not intelligent, although it can communicate 
through empathy. It has no ego at all. The 
sword's face and edge have many small black 
flickering flames upon it, though these do not 
radiate warmth. When used in combat, the 
sword bursts forth in black flame, which runs 


from pommel to tip but does not affect the 
wielder in any way. Any victim hit by the 
sword must make a saving throw vs, wands or 
be burned for 1-10 points of damage in addi 
tion to normai sword damage plus magic and 
strength bonuses* if any. A person burned by 
the sword will catch fire, taking 14 more 
points per round until the fire is extinguished. 
The burning victim makes another saving 
throw each round; if the save is successful, 
the flame is extinguished. The ebon flame 
cannot be doused by any non-magical means, 
including water. 

When unsheathed and held* this weapon 
gives the wielder mfrarision with a 9' range. 
The wielder is also harder to surprise* and 
receives ldB for surprise checks instead of 
the usual ld6. 

Each Sword of the Ebon Flame comes com 
plete with a curse -determined individually by 
the DM. Normally, the curse of the sword 
consists of penalties "to hit" when fighting 
some type of creature or alignment. For 
example* one sword might be -3 against lawful 
evil creatures while another might be -3 
against demons. Creatures named in the 
curse of the sword will become instantly 
aware of it when they come within 60 ft. of it! 
There is a base 50% chance that these beings 
will attack the sword wielder because of this 
weakness, even if they had been neutrally dis 
posed to begin with. 

In addition to the above limitation, the 
sword inflicts 1-4 fewer points of damage than 
normal against water- and fire-type creatures, 
such as serpents, mermen, elemental, fish, 
dragons, and salamanders. All fires started by 
the sword will burn for only one round and 
then will automatically extinguish. 

It is thought that several varieties of these 
swords were made by some great artificer for all 
alignments. If researched by the player charac 
ters* the history surrounding their placement in 
the Flanaess will be scarce and unreliable, indi 
cating instead that the swords might be more 
likely found in the outer realms. 

Tome of the Black 
Heart 

This book was written by several evil magi* 
whose time of existence upon Oerth is not 
recorded* save that they dwelt near the Valley 
of the Mage, The Tome was lost during those 
years when the Mage of the \&lley brought 
down a great ruin upon these evil ones* The 
Tome slipped from the ways of dread for a 
time* only to be located by Tomorast in a curio 


25 






shop in the City of Greyhawk! The legends do 
not tell how it came to be there, but it was 
truly lucky for Tomorast that he found it, for it 
contained what he had always sought: power 
and arcane knowledge to procure still more 
power. He has read extensively from this 
book, although he is forced to offer a sacrifice 
to Kerzit every time he peruses its worm- 
eaten pages. 

Through the use of the Tome and his own 
baleful spells, Tomorast has created and 
brought to life many of the objects that reside 
on the dungeon levels beneath Maure Castle. 
His greatest artificing was performed, using 
the knowledge imparted by the Tome, in the 
creation of the iron golem (Key #19). 
Through the use of the Tome, he has sum 
moned many evil and knowledgeable spirits to 
guide him in acquiring knowledge of the Outer 
Planes of Existence, and how to traverse this 
realm while remaining in his physical body. 
Tomorast has yet to use aU of the Tome's 
powers and secrets, for his servants have of 
late become suspicious of him and his so- 
called "service" to the elder gods. Thus, 
Tomorast has had to stop sacrificing his fol 
lowers, and now resorts to using hired assas 
sins to find offerings for Kerzit. 


The Powers of the Tome 

The Tome of the Black Heart is written in 
magical script of the chaotic evil alignment 
tongue, and is comprised of many and varied 
powers and summonings, Each area covered 
is listed hereafter. 

Pages 1-12: These pages describe the 
summoning of the guardian demon Kerzit. and 
those words of power that may dismiss it. 
This summoning requires an evil magic-user 
of the 12th level or higher, 10,000 gp in 
crushed black opals, a sacrifice, and two 
weeks of preparation and meditation. Appro 
priate vestments must be acquired and worn, 
and the words, "Kerzit the Mighty. Kerzit the 
Strong, Kerzit the Guardian, Kerzit! Kerzit!! 
Kerzit!!!" must be chanted. This chant pro 
tects the summoner from Kerzit T s attack. 
Every time the Tome is used, a sacrifice must 
be offered to the guardian demon, and the 
precise ritual must be repeated. 

Pages 13-50: This is the history of the 
Tome as recorded by its unknown authors, 
Tbmorast's scrawl can be identified, as he 
keeps updating the Tome as he learns from it. 

Pages 51-120: These pages describe the 
making of a special iron golem. The crafting of 


this golem requires 6 months of time, 150,000 
gp. and the following: 

1. A fireball spell must be cast on this 
creature once complete. This imparts its 
fiery breath* 

2. A levitate spell must be cast on the 
creature, making this form of movement 
possible, The spell must be cast while the 
golem is still inanimate. 

The Whip of Cockatrice Feathers and the 
poisoned crystal-and-iron sw T ord are both 
optional. DMs should decide upon the avail 
ability of these items, perhaps sending those 
characters desiring them on yet another fan 
tastic adventure! 

Pages 121-200: These pages de 
scribe the making of an item known as the 
Dagger Obelisk. This requires a magic-user of 
the 12th or higher level, 3 months of prepara 
tion time and magical investigation, and a 
30.000 gp sacrifice to the lesser gods 
Fharlanghn (horizons, distance, travel) and 
Celestian (stars, space, wanderers). The fol 
lowing elements are also needed: 

3 pounds of hornblende* 

A teleport spell, cast by a 12th or higher 
level magic-user. 

An extension III spell . 

A plant growth spell. 

One 95%-fIawless sapphire. 

The hornblende must be shaped into a nor 
mal dagger by a lapidary. The spells are then 
cast into the dagger in this order: plant 
growth , teleport, and extension HI. The sap 
phire is finally set in the pommel to boost the 
dagger's magical powers (and what a boost 
this will be!). The sacrifice to Fharlanghn and 
Celestian may be made at any time, but must 
be performed at a church of those who profess 
neutral alignment. 

The last passage in the Tome about this dag 
ger instructs the creator in its use. Once hav 
ing created and enchanted the dagger, the 
magic-user must thrust it into the ground up 
to its hilt. This done, a rumbling will be heard 
and the ground will begin to part, making way 
for a green, spiraling, 3Q ft. x 8 ft, plant stalk 
that will push up out of the ground and stop in 
front of the character. A grotto near the from 
of this stalk will appear to be a passageway. 
This is, in fact, a transportation device to the 
Lost City of the Elders. 

Pages 201-268: These pages cover sev 
eral names of spirits that can provide informa 


tion about the other Planes of Existence, if 
conjured or summoned: 

RAR-TUM, Spirit of the Elemental Planes 
KESH-GURH, Spirit of the Para-Elements I 
Planes 

SHA-DUAN, Spirit of the Plane of Shadow 
MEZZIK, Spirit of the Demi-Plane of Knowl 
edge Concerning the 666 Layers of the Abyss 
and the Layers of Tarterus. 

[This last entity will only be summonable 50% 
of the time. If successfully gated, it will appear 
as a Type I demon with bright red and light 
green colorings (feathers). It is actually an 
imp with a minor shape change ability, which 
allows it to appear as and fight as this demon 
for six turns only. This creature will lie to 
those of any alignment save chaotic evil, and 
will leave of its own volition after only 3-12 
rounds spent on the Prime Material Plane.] 

GENERAL NOTES: To question these spir 
its, the character must first gate them in by 
spell or magic item. They may be asked direct 
questions, but will usually refuse to converse 
unless threatened by spiritwrack or similar 
magical means. Under such pressure, they 
will inform the querist of al they know con 
cerning the particular plane from which they 
were summoned (20-80% veracity on all 
answers if the questions are detailed enough). 
They will answer as many questions as the 
querist can pose during a 24 hour period* 
After this time they merely "pop" out of this 
plane back to where they came from* cursing 
their summoner with many vile words and 
derisive comments. 

DESCRIPTION: Rar-tum appears as an 
admixture of fire, air, water and earth. Kesh- 
gurh appears as flowing dust particles filled 
with ice, heat and vapor. Sha-duan appears as 
a 10 ft, high shadow, and talks in low sonorous 
tones when addressing its summoner. 






ppendix2: newmonsteRs 


Demons 

Kerzit the Guardian 
(Major Demon) 

FREQUENCY: \fery Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOR CLASS: ~2 
MOVE: 12" 

HIT DICE: 15 (112 hit points) 

% IN LAIR: 65% 

TREASURE TYPE: Speciai 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 4*1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1-10/M0/2-12/2-12 
? 2-24 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Poisonous bite 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Immunities 
(see below) 

INTELLIGENCE: High 
ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Evil 
SIZE: L (10 ft. tall) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Attack/Defense Modes: Nil 
LEVEL/XP VALUE: X/13 r 800 * 20/hp 
(16,040) 

Kerzit is a special guardian, especially created 
by higher demons to serve the cause of chaos 
on the Prime Material Plane. It is thus most 
often encountered there, guarding some item 
or area of import. 

Kerzit is currently the guardian demon of 
the Tome of the Black Heart, summoned forth 
from that volume by Tomorast, as a necessary 
prelude for the use of powers and other 
arcane knowledge contained within that 
leather-bound manual of black lore and 
demon-begotten magic* Kerzit maintains a 
watchful vigil over this tome, and, in return 
for this service, accepts sacrifices from 
Tomorast 


Kerzit may attack up to 5 times per round. 
Its tentacles (IdlO each) and saw-like arms 
(ld!2 each) account for the majority of its 
melee capability. If both tentacles strike the 
same victim in a single round, the victim is 
dragged to Kerzifs waiting jaws for an addi 
tional bite (normal "to hit" roll) of 2-24 points 
plus deadly poison {-3 penalty to saving 
throw), 

Kerzit is immune to ail Ist-3rd level magic- 
user and illusionist spells, 1st and 2nd level 
druid spells, and 1st level cleric spells. At will, 
it may create darkness 10* radius, use detect 
magic , read magic, detect invisibility, and tele 
kinesis (maximum 7,000 gp weight) spells 
once per round. It can gate (70% success 
fully) a Type II (40%) or Type HI (60%) 
demon, though it may only gate two demons 
of one type per day, as its abilities while on the 
Prime Materia] Plane are somewhat limited. 


Description 

Kerzit stands 10 ft. tall and 4 ft, wide at the 
shoulders. Its overly large wolfs head sports 
two menacing, silver eyes, and its jaws open 
wide to reveal ebon black teeth that drip a 
greyish fluid. The entire body is covered with 
matted black fur, and its upper appendages 
resemble 6 ft. long octopus tentacles, located 
upon its torso where a human's arms might 
be. Its lower torso has a pair of saw-like 
appendages, chitinous to a degree, but the 
black fur common to ail parts of this demon's 
body (except the tentacles) is present here 
also, Kerzit's feet resemble 2 ft. long wolfs 
paws, with polished black six-inch long talons. 
These talons emit an audible clicking sound 
when the demon walks on a hard surface, 
which may give a warning of this horrific mon 
ster's approach to those who might be listen 
ing, negating surprise by the creature. 



27 







Coichiln 



FREQUENCY: Rare (on the Prime 
Material Plane) 

NO. APPEARING: 246 
ARMOR CLASS: 4 
MOVE: 10 # 

HIT DICE: 4-7 
% IN LAIR: 60% 

TREASURE TYPE: F 
NO, OF ATTACKS: 2 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 4-9Z4-9 
(plus strength bonus) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSE: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 20% 
INTELLIGENCE: Low 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral Evil 
SIZE: S (4 ft.) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Attack/Defense Modes: Nil/nil 
LEVEL/XP VALUE: (4 HD) ID/130 
* 5/hp; (7 HD) V/500 ? 10/hp 

The Colcliiln are a most uncommon demon 
spawn, set upon this world to assist high-level 
evil beings (demons or similar creatures). 
They may be found wherever major concen 
trations of evil are located, but are most often 
found underground in mountainous caves that 
extend into the inky depths of the earth, lower 
level dungeons where abominable rites are 
practiced and homed non-human deities are 


worshipped. The coichiln are possibly created 
from larvae, but the complete process is 
unknown. Their mission is to serve and fol 
low. They do this very well, for even if they 
are incapable of imaginative thought, they 
usually have a good memory and can follow 
orders explicitly. They are thus often incorpo 
rated into legions to fight subterranean wars 
to which those "evil ones of the pits and cav 
erns' 1 are accustomed. 

The coichiln attack with their iron-hard 
claws, but have no teeth. They usually (55%) 
move silently, and when set for ambush, sur 
prise their victims two-thirds of the time. 

Their strengths range from 18/01 to 18/00, 
but the creatures gain only the *3, +4. +5 T or +6 
damage bonus (add to the base ld6+3 points of 
damage) and not the corresponding "to hit" 
bonus, as they are rather uncoordinated. 
However, their appearance provides no indi 
cation of their great strength. They never 
check morale, and will impassively fight to the 
death in all situations. 

Description 

A coichiln is black in color, bipedal, with scale 
like skin and Mess, bulbous white eyes. Its 
mouth sports no teeth, but its red forked ser 
pent's tongue is used to sense things. Its four 
fingered hands have iron-hard claws, 
adamantite-hard in larger varieties of coichiln. 


Hetfish 



FREQUENCY: Uncommon 
NO. APPEARING: 26-70 
ARMOR CLASS: 5 
HIT DICE: 1-3 
% IN LAIR: 70% 

TREASURE TYPE: Q (x3) 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1 per fish 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
INTELLIGENCE: Low 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
SIZE: S (1-3 ft, long) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Attack/Defense Modes: Nil/nil 
LEVEL/XP VALUE: (1 HD) 1/14 + 1/hp: 

(3 HD) n/50 - 3/hp 

Hetfish are found in both fresh and salt water, 
and in any dime from arctic to boiling hot 
springs. These fish have super-heated bodies 
(350 degrees Fahrenheit), which can actually 
bum objects touched. Their sizes range from 
1-3 ft. long, and each attacks as a 1-3 hit die 
monster. Length determines attack probabil 
ity, Their great maneuverability and speed in 
the water account for their armor class rating 
and attack capability. These fish are attracted 
by motion in the water. When their "den" is 
disturbed, they swarm en masse to meet the 
intruder. Their mode of attack is to bump or 
ram their intended targets, inflicting 1 point of 
heat damage per touch per fish. Hetfish have 
been known to continue these swarming 
attacks indefinitely. A victim may be "boiled 
alive" due to the proximity of great numbers 
of these fish heating the water nearby. Hetfish 
have been known to ram small ships and other 
waterborne vessels, Wx>den ships sustain 1 
point of structural damage per 30 small (1 ft.), 
20 medium (2 ft.) or 10 large (3 ft.) hetfish 
attacking. 

These fish have been known to bring a good 
price (10-100 gp each, depending on their size 
and condition) when captured alive and sold to 
men of wisdom (sages, alchemists, certain 
priests and mages, et a/J, as these scholars 
have yet to learn about this fish's strange 
properties, which resemble the fire-breathing 
dragon or the remorhaz* 

Description 

General coloring of the hetfish is silver and 
orange. Many small bumps and unnatural 
looking skin boils can be seen covering their 
bodies. They otherwise resemble pirahna, 
though they have no teeth of note. 


28 










have become attached to their victims. These 
shadows are detectable only 10% of the time. 
During these periods they are seen as undu 
lating, inky blobs, with amorphous twistings 
to their outline which make them appear to 
grow or shrink (between 4 ft. and 6 ft.) as 
they move. 



Slow Shadow 



FREQUENCY: Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 4-16 
ARMOR CLASS: 8 
MOVE: 12* 

HIT DICE: 4 
TREASURE TYPE: P, Y 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 14 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Slow 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: *2 or better 
weapon to hit 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: See below 
INTELLIGENCE: Low 
ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Evil 
SIZE: M (4 6 ft. tall) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Attack Defense Modes: Nil/nil 
LEVEL/X.P. VALUE: JV/15Q * 4/hp 

Slow shadows are related to their cousins, the 
shadows. It is thought by those who study 
arcane fauna and undead creatures such as 
these that shadows (and particularly slow 
shadows) come from the Negative Material 
Plane. Some place their origin in Shadowland, 
but this Is not substantiated. 

Slow shadows typically attack by surprise* 
maneuvering from behind their intended prey. 
They attach themselves to the unsuspecting 
victims, causing an immediate 1-4 points of 
cold damage. The victim becomes slowed (as 
the spell) automatically, with no saving throw, 
For every round that the slow shadow 7 
remains attached, 14 points of additional cold 
damage is inflicted. Those killed by these 
creatures are transformed into slow shadows, 
but these usually remain within 40 ft, of where 
they were killed. This, of course, suggests 
that wandering slow shadows are created* or 
summoned, and those that stay within one 
area are past victims. In any case, these crea 
tures are dangerous. They are not affected by 
cold* lightning* hold, or charm attacks. A 
haste spell directed at them will drive them 
away* but has no effect upon them once they 


FREQUENCY: Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 140 
ARMOR CLASS: 5 
MOVE: 18" 

HIT DICE: 5-8 
% IN LAIR: 30% 

TREASURE TYPE: C 
NO + OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 142 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
INTELLIGENCE: Low 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
SIZE: L (6-9 ft, long) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Attack/Defense Modes: Nil/nil 
LEVEL/XP VALUE: (5 HD) IV/130 
* 5/hp; (8 HD) Vl/550 - 10/hp 

The Tyrg is a cross between a dog (in watch 
fulness) and a tiger (in stalking ability). These 
creatures are often found in the mountains, 
but not too far from woods (wherein they pre 
fer to hunt). When they engage prey in melee, 


they emit fierce howls which will serve to 
mildly stun the victims engaged (-1 penalty to 
initiative* -2 penalty to hit) for the following 
three rounds. The effects of this stunning are 
not cumulative, and only after the first three 
rounds of stunning have worn off can those 
affected be stunned once again. After howl 
ing* a tyrg attacks. Tyrgs can move silently 
75% of the time, and are surprised only on a 
roll of 1 on ld6. 

If encountered in their lair, there will be 14 
young present (20-70% grown). These will 
flght with the adults to preserve the lair. All 
others in the lair will be adults, the majority 
male* though the sexes cannot be told apart 
because of a lack of general knowledge 
regarding these hounds. 

Description 

A tyrg stands 3 ft. tall at the shoulder and var 
ies in length, as noted above. Its overall color 
ing is white with grey* black, and tan 
splotches. Its sleek stance while hunting is 
reminiscent of a cat, but its powerful jaws* 
containing many fangs* demonstrate its rela 
tion to the world of dogs. 


29 










ppendix 



PRe-qeneRAteP 

chaRacteRS 


General Note 

Standard dungeon adventuring equipment 
should be assumed for all characters. Players 
may select whatever they wish within the nor 
mal limits of the game. 


Mordenkainen the 
Mage (Wizard, M-U12) 


CLASS: Magic-User 
LEVEL: 12 
ARMOR CLASS: 1 
Magic Adjustment: +6 
Dexterity Adjustment: *3 
MOVEMENT: 12" 

HIT POINTS: 52 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2 (Dagger) 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon 
Dagger *1: 2-5/24 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
DEITY: Boccob 


STRENGTH: 10 
INTELLIGENCE: 18 
WISDOM: 15 
DEXTERITY: 17 
CONSTITUTION: 17 
CHARISMA: 18 


Mordenkainen appears to be a middle-aged 
man bedecked in simple grey robes, perhaps 
resembling a merchant. His face suggests age 
beyond his normal appearance, as if wisdom 
were a part of his charisma, thrusting out 
upon those that stand near him almost as 
much as do his bushy eyebrows. His hair is 
black and cropped, his beard black with silver 
streaks and well waxed. Mordenkainen has 
come well-prepared with many items, know 
ing full well that anything might lie beyond the 
Unopenable Doors, 


Armor/ 

Clothes 

In Hand 

In Side 
Pouch 

In Portable 

Hole 

In Belt 
Pouches 


Nil/Norma] Dress 
Dagger *1 

Bracers of Defense AC 4 

Wind of Fear 
Scroll of the Efreeti 
Silver Key of Portals 

Carpet of Flying 
Crystal Ball 

Components for Spell 
Carried 


Spells All of Levels 1-6 

Known 


Carpet of Flying: This is of the largest vari 
ety, and holds four while flying. 

Scroll of the Efreeti: This scroll appears 
wrought from some alien hide (actually a 
lesser demon's skin). Upon it are many flam 
ing runes and sigils. In the possession of a 
magic-user, this scroll acts as a ring of Ere 
resistance. If read, an efreeti (MM, pg. 37) 
will appear immediately, summoned from the 
Elemental Plane of Fire. It will serve its 
"master" for 2-5 hours and then leave; the 
scroll is then useless. 

Silver Key of Portals : This item appears to 
be a regular-sized silver skeleton key (silver 
worth equals33 gpL It is. in fact, a minor arti 
fact that was found in an abandoned chapel to 
Dalt, the lesser god of portals and enclosures* 
(It is conjectured by Mordenkainen that this 
forgotten god led him to find the Key, for he 
has learned that Dalt is of a chaotic good align 
ment and gives generously to those he 
favors)* When the key is touched to any por 
tal, be it magical or other, the portal will slowly 
swing open. This key may be used to open 
four portals per day, and no more . 


Spells Carried 

Level I: Charm Person, Jump, Magic Mis 
sile, Protection from Evil 

Level 2: Continual Light, Locate Object> Ray 
of Enfeeblement, Ifeh 

Level 3: Dispel Magic ( Fireball, Haste, Slow 

Level 4: Fire Shield, fee Storm (x2) y Wizard 
Eye 

Level 5: Monster Summoning HI , Teleport 
(x2), Wall of Force 

Level 6: Globe of Invulnerability 

Mordenkainen and his compatriots are unu 
sual characters, since they come from a cam 
paign of very long standing. As a result, they 
sometimes have abilities (such as knowledge 
of all spells at levels 1-6) that are not nor 
mally possible for ordinary AD&D* charac 
ters. 








Yrag the Lord 
(Lord, F 9) 

CLASS: Fighter 
LEVEL: 9 
ARMOR CLASS: -4 
Magic Adjustment: *4 
Dexterity Adjustment: -2 
MOVEMENT: 12' 

HIT POINTS: 81 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 3/2 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon 
Longs word *1, Flame Tongue: 
2-9/243 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
DEITY: Zagyg 

STRENGTH: 18/46 
INTELLIGENCE: 14 
WISDOM: 14 
DEXTERITY: 16 
CONSTITUTION: 16 
CHARISMA: 17 



Yrag appears as a stout and hardy man, flaxen 
haired, and normally dressed in grey and 
green robes* He stands over 6 ft- tall and is 
very broad-shouldered. Yrag is ever watchful 
of things about him, and usually prefers no 
new undertakings unless these are shared 
with those persons he knows and trusts* Yrag 
has come with many items: 


Armor/ 

Clothes 

In Hand 

In Side 

Pouch 

Backpack 


Plate Mail *2 
Shield *2 

Boots of Feather Falling 

Longsword 4, Flame Tongue 
Ring of Invisibility 

Scroll of Protection 
from Elementals (ail) 

Potion of Storm Giant 
Strength 


Boots of Feather Falling: Treat these boots 
as an unlimited duration feather fall spell* 


Bigby the Magic-User 
(Necromancer, M-U io) 

CLASS: Magic-User 
LEVEL: 10 
ARMOR CLASS: 1 
Magic Adjustment: *3 
Dexterity Adjustment: *3 
MOVEMENT: 12" 

HIT POINTS: 39 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2 (Dagger) 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon 
Dagger +2: 3-6/3-5 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
DEITIES: Boccob & Zagyg 

STRENGTH: 8 
INTELLIGENCE: 17 
WISDOM: 14 
DEXTERITY: 17 
CONSTITUTION: 15 
CHARISMA: 12 

Bigby's attire is unassuming: a simple hooded 
dark grey robe* When this hood is thrown 
back from the usual covering of his face (for 
Bigby is a somewhat retiring and secretive 
man), his lean but healthy features will be 
exposed: studious brown eyes* light brown 
hair, and a laugh that precedes jokes on almost 
a forced level* To those who do not know him 


well, he might be viewed as oddly nervous (or 
paranoid), but this is nowhere near true. The 
mark to which Bigby adheres is simply "Cau 
tion " Bigby has brought along a few of his 
accumulated magic items. 


Armor/ 

Clothes 

In Hand 


Side Pouch 


Nil/Normal Dress 
Ring of Protection *3 

Dagger *2, or 
Wand of Cold 
(12 charges) 

Potion of Animal Control 
Vial of Sweetwater 


Belt Components for Spells 

Pouch Carried 

Spells Ail, of Levels 1 -5 

Known 


Spells Carried 

Level 1: Affect Normal Fires ( Hold Portal , 
Magic Missile , Shield 

Level 2: Detect Evil, Mirror Image, Rope 
Trick , Stinking Cloud 

Level 3; Fly, Lightning Bolt f Phantasmal 
Force 

Level 4: Charm Monster, Minor Globe of 
Invulnerability 

Level 5: Conjure Elemental, TeJeporf 



31 







Riggby the Patriarch 
High Priest, C 9) 

CLASS: Cleric 
LEVEL: 9 
ARMOR CLASS: -1 
Magic Adjustment: *2 
Dexterity Adjustment: *1 
MOVEMENT: 12" 

HIT POINTS: 51 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAM AGE/ATTACK: By weapon 
Bar Hammer *2: 4-7Z3-6 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
DEITIES: Boccob & Zagyg 

STRENGTH: 12 
INTELLIGENCE: 13 
WISDOM: 16 
DEXTERITY: 15 
CONSTITUTION: 15 
CHARISMA: 16 


Riggby is normally dressed in light grey and 
off-white colored robes. His eyes are chest 
nut brown, his hair pure black* and his opin 
ions are short and succinct- "Convert, or 
else!! 1 ' Riggby has been convinced that his 



services will be a boon to his other compan 
ions, so he has opted to come along on this 
"stint" {as he refers to it). He has brought 
several items with him: 

Armor/ Plate Mail *1 

Clothes Shield *1 

In Hand Staff of the Serpent 

(Constrictor) 

Ring of Free Action 

Backpack Scroll of two spells: 

Cure Critical Wounds, 

True Seeing 

Spells Carried 

Level 1: Cure Light Bounds (x3). Detect 
Magic, Remove Fear ; Sanctuary 

Level 2: Hold Person (x2) t Find Traps, 
Resist Fire, Silence 15' Radius, 
Speak With Animals 

Level 3: Create Food and Water, Cure Dis 
ease, Remove Curse 

Level 4: Cure Serious Bfotmds 

Level 5: Raise Dead* 

t* Note that the Raise Dead spell will not 
restore a character to effectiveness* Its pri 
mary use would be, for example, to learn the 
Command Wards for the Carpet of Flying from 
Mordenkainen. should he be killed*] 



9112XXX1501 


32 








Advanced Oungeonsferagons* 

\s*ORiOcfGK^ftiaWI^ 

Fantasy World Adventure 


Mordenkainen's Fantastic Adventure 

by Robert J. Kuntz and Gary Gygax 


Four great and powerful heroes travel in search 
of adventure. Led by Mordenkainen, wizard 
without peer, they have come to mysterious 
Maure Castle, a forlorn and foreboding place, 
source of wonderment and awesome adven 
ture, following a strange and terrible story. 

For, somewhere deep beneath Maure Cas 
tle, from whence no person has returned alive, 
there stand two massive iron doors - doors 
without latch, lock, or handle - the Unopen- 
able Doors. 

And if the doors are opened, what then? Such 
potent evil, such terror lies beyond, that even 
the bravest adventurers may quail before the 
ultimate test! 

Mordenkainen's Fantastic Adventure is a 
challenging adventure for high-level play. Four 
original characters from Gary Gygax* famous 
Greyhawk* 1 * campaign are included for your 
use. 

Can you meet the challenge? Can you survive 
what lies beyond . .. the Unopenable Doors? 

An Adventure for Character Levels 9-12 

^Copyright 1934 6. Gafy Oygas. All Rights Reserved. Printed In tl.S.A. 

TSR. inc TSR(UK) Ltd. 

FOB 756 The Mill, Rathmore Road 

Lake Geneva. Cambridge CB14AD 

Wt 53147 United Kingdom 

ISBN 0-S8038-168 X 
394-54162-6TSR0600 




















Statues 



Tunnel 



Door 



Secret 

D*x>r 



Barred 

Cell 



Peep 

Holes 




























































































































































































































































































































































Map of Dungeon Level 2 


KEY 

1 square = 10 feet 



Tunnel 




Purple 

Stone 




Curtain 



LUI 


Benches 



Pulpit 



Door Holes Pillar 



Secret Wood 

Door Column 


FTP 




Fire Fit Stairs Up 
Trap 



Barred Pool 
Cell 




Pit 



Spiral 

Stair 



Peep Wei 

Holes Floor 
























































































































































































1904 TSR Irur; Ah R*ghfg Reaijrvr^d 


Map of Dungeon Level 3 





















































































































































































































