Nva
ADVENTURE
For  4-di  cha^acteras  of  Uhh^h  JK-VO
j_"fj it : ft jJ  Gcumw  AtVjprjf  rjRR
igbtraaRe  Kee
Kick  Sahara
N) ghTma^e  Keep
Official  Game  Adventure
by  R)ck  Stuaw
Distributed  to  the  book  trade  by  Random  House,  Inc.,  and  in  Canada  by  Random  House  Ltd.
Distributed  to  the  toy  and  hobby  trade  by  regional  distributors.
Distributed  to  the  book  trade  in  the  United  Kingdom  by  Random  Century  Group  and  TSR  Ltd.
This  work  is  protected  under  the  copyright  laws  of  the  United  States  of  America.  Any  reproduction  or  unauthorized  use  of  the  material  or  artwork  herein  is prohibited  without  the  express  written  consent  of  TSR,  Inc.
Copyright  ©1991  TSR,  Inc.  All  Rights  Reserved.  Printed  in  the  U.S.A.
ADVANCED  DUNGEONS  &  DRAGONS,  AD&D,  and  FORGOTTEN  REALMS  are  registered  trademarks  owned  by  TSR,  Inc.
PRODUCTS  OF  YOUR  IMAGINATION  and  the  TSR  logo  are  trademarks  owned  by  TSR,  Inc.
9341
ISBN  1-56076-147-4
u
NighTmARe  Keep
Official  Game  Adventure
by  R)ck  Scuanj
TABLE  OF  CONTENTS
Introduction  . 3.
Prologue:  Flies  and  Lizards  . 6
Chapter  1:  Squirrels  and  Wasps  . 9
Chapter  2:  Goldfish  and  Turtles . .22
Chapter  3:  Leeches  and  Butterflies  . 26
Chapter  4:  Spiders  and  Worms  . 52
New  Magic:  Rod  of  Immobile  Insects  . 62
New  Monster:  Lichling . 63
Tables
Sensory  Phenomena,  Physical  Encounters,  Monster  Summary  . inside  covers
Veilstone  Peaks  map .  outside  gatefold
Wolover's  Keep  map  . color  mapsheet
Stronghold  Levels  1-3  .  color  mapsheet
CnedKs
Design:  Rick  Swan Editing:  Allen  Varney Cartography:  Dennis  Kauth Keylining:  Paul  Hanchette
Zamagne
TSR,  Inc.
POB  756 Lake  Geneva WI  53147  USA
Typesetting:  Tracey Cover  Art:  Brom Interior  Art:  Valerie  Valusek, Ierry  Dykstra
TSR  Ltd.
120  Church  End,  Cherry  Hinton Cambridge  CB1  3LB United  Kingdom
TT
rr-r — r
ZL
IrJtRodaction
nt
!■
■*!a
JX  X.
Welcome  to  Nightmare  Keep,  one  of the  most  demanding  adventures  your players  will  ever  experience.  The challenges  awaiting  within  these pages  are  intended  for  only  the  most skilled,  courageous,  and  resourceful heroes  of  the  Forgotten  Realms.  Novi¬ ces  are  advised  to  turn  back  now.
The  following  information  is for  the  DM  only.  Familiarize  your¬ self  with  the  entire  module  before  be¬ ginning  play.
PLAYER
CHARACTERS
The  adventure  is  designed  for about  four  to  six  player  characters (PCs)  of  level  18-20,  with  a  total  of about  80-90  levels  for  the  entire party.  The  party  should  contain  a  bal¬ ance  of  classes,  with  warriors  and wizards  as  optimum  choices.  Ideally, most  PCs  should  have  magical  armor, a  magical  weapon,  and  fairly  power¬ ful  magical  items.
SETTING
The  adventure  is  set  in  a  remote mountainous  region  of  the  Forgotten Realms,  informally  known  as  the  Veil- stone  Peaks.  On  the  boxed  campaign set's  maps,  the  Veilstone  Peaks  region is  northwest  of  Cormyr,  about  50 miles  west  of  the  Farsea  Marshes. Though  useful,  the  campaign  set  is not  necessary  for  play.
Maps  AS)d  PLaytog Aids
The  cover  panel  of  the  module cover  shows  the  Veilstone  Peaks  re¬ gion;  the  numbered  areas  are  de¬ tailed  in  the  Prologue  and  Chapter  1. All  other  maps,  including  those  per¬ taining  to  Wolover's  Keep  and  the  vast labyrinth  beneath  (where  the  bulk  of the  adventure  takes  place),  are  in¬ cluded  on  the  enclosed  color mapsheet.
The  inside  panels  of  the  module
cover  contain  reference  material,  in¬ cluding  the  Sensory  Phenomena  and Physical  Encounter  Tables  (explained in  Chapter  3)  and  a  summary  of  statis¬ tics  for  most  of  the  monsters  in  the adventure.  After  the  PCs  complete Chapter  1  and  the  Veilstone  Peaks map  is  no  longer  needed,  unfold  the module  cover  and  use  it  as  a  referee screen,  giving  easy  access  to  the  ma¬ terial  inside.
RUNNING  THE ADVENTURE
ORgaKJ)zaT70KJ
The  adventure  begins  with  the events  in  the  Prologue,  where  the  PCs learn  of  a  supernatural  threat  that  ap¬ parently  originates  in  Wolover's Keep,  a  centuries-old  castle  in  the  des¬ olate  Veilstone  Peaks.
The  four  chapters  following  the Prologue  contain  the  bulk  of  the  ad-
3
r
tnCRoduction
1
■
i
V - C - 27  V  .  *  r.  T -
venture's  events  and  encounters.  The PCs  most  likely  experience  the  chap¬ ters  in  order.  Chapter  1  details  the party's  investigations  of  the  Veilstone Peaks  communities  and  Wolover Keep.  Chapters  2-4  describe  the  laby¬ rinth  beneath  the  keep,  with  its  many traps  and  minions.
Each  chapter  begins  with  an  over¬ view  providing  background  informa¬ tion,  including  physical  descriptions, playing  notes,  and  other  pertinent  in¬ formation.  To  help  you  track  the  par¬ ty's  progress,  each  overview  details the  chapter's  major  goals  and  discov¬ eries.
Boxed  text  should  be  paraphrased or  read  directly  to  the  players.
Time
Keep  track  of  the  passage  of  time  on a  piece  of  scrap  paper.  Since  much  of the  adventure  takes  place  under¬ ground,  it  may  be  difficult  for  the  PCs to  keep  track  of  days  and  nights. Though  it's  seldom  important  to know  the  precise  hour  of  the  day,  you should  know  when  a  day  has  passed for  the  purpose  of  recovering  lost  hit points,  relearning  spells,  and  so  on.
Game  Balawce
Judging  this  adventure  can  be  chal¬ lenging,  since  it  is  meant  for  an  excep¬ tionally  formidable  group  of  player characters.  Here  are  some  tips  for keeping  high-level  PCs  under  control:
•  If  the  party  is  having  too  easy  a time,  you  may  increase  (1)  the  fre¬ quency  of  Sensory  Phenomena  and Physical  Encounters,  (2)  the  num¬ ber  of  monsters,  and  (3)  the  lethal¬ ity  of  traps.
•  Only  allow  Intelligence  checks where  indicated  in  the  text.  Other¬ wise,  make  the  players  rely  on their  own  ingenuity  to  solve  puz¬ zles  and  make  decisions.
•  Be  prudent  when  adjudicating high-level  spells.  In  particular,  pay attention  to  wish  spells,  avoiding
any  result  that  significantly  imbal¬ ances  the  game.  (See  The  Complete Wizard's  Manual  for  tips  on  judg¬ ing  wishes).  Also,  be  conservative regarding  the  quality  of  informa¬ tion  revealed  by  divination  spells. It's  possible,  for  instance,  that  the most  likely  response  to  commune is  "I  don't  know."
DIVfs
BACKGROUND
In  centuries  past,  a  female  wizard named  Icelia  held  a  position  as  one  of the  Witches  of  Rashemen,  a  group  of powerful  spellcasters  who functioned  as  the  true  leaders  of  their land.  Though  the  Witches  wielded considerable  power  in  Rashemen, Icelia' s  ambitions  extended  far  be¬ yond  the  boundaries  of  her  home¬ land;  she  longed  for  nothing  less  than domination  of  the  entire  world. When  her  colleagues  learned  of  Ice¬ lia' s  schemes,  they  expelled  her  from the  ranks  of  the  Witches  and  exiled her  from  Rashemen.  Undeterred,  Ice¬ lia  abandoned  her  mortal  existence and  consummated  her  lust  for  power by  becoming  a  lich.
Icelia  knew  that  other  liches  before her  had  tried  and  failed  to  establish enduring  kingdoms,  and  she  was  de¬ termined  not  to  repeat  their  mis¬ takes.  Icelia  concluded  that  the ineptitude  and  cowardice  of  these would-be  conquerors'  minions  led  to their  downfall.  If  Icelia's  dreams  of conquest  were  to  bear  fruit,  she would  need  the  support  of  an  army far  more  formidable  than  the  ineffec¬ tual  hordes  commanded  by  those who  came  before  her.
As  Icelia  searched  for  a  suitable  lo¬ cation  to  establish  a  base,  she  stum¬ bled  upon  a  keep  in  the  desolate region  of  the  Veilstone  Peaks.  The keep  belonged  to  Amry  Wolover,  a wizard  of  impressive  talent  who  was engaged  in  agricultural  experiments meant  to  benefit  the  poor  farmers  of the  surrounding  villages.  Icelia  mur¬
dered  Wolover,  assimilated  his  knowl¬ edge,  then  constructed  an  elaborate stronghold  beneath  the  mountains where  she  would  create  an  army  of minions  from  the  flesh  of  her  own body.
Years  passed,  and  Icelia  evolved  into a  demilich  of  staggering  power.  She eventually  transformed  her  original body  into  an  immense  incubating  husk to  spawn  her  minions:  a  multitude  of insectile  "lichlings"  that  she  would some  day  lead  on  a  conquest  of  the world  of  the  living.  She  also  retrieved the  spirit  of  Zhorach,  a  loyal  aide  from her  days  as  a  Witch  of  Rashemen,  and reincarnated  him  as  a  ghost.  Zhorach now  serves  as  the  guardian  of  her skull,  which  is  disguised  as  a  spectral vessel  drifting  endlessly  on  a  lake  deep in  her  stronghold.
Like  all  developing  creatures,  the lichlings  need  nourishment  to  grow. But  instead  of  organic  food  alone,  the supernatural  lichlings  also  require  a diet  of  emotions.  Specifically,  they feed  on  the  fear  generated  by  living victims,  along  with  the  emotional trauma  of  victims  suffering  physical damage;  the  lichlings  transform  this fear  and  trauma  into  nourishing  en¬ ergy.
To  generate  that  fear,  Icelia  devised a  deadly  labyrinth  filled  with  lethal traps  and  vicious  minions.  Lured  by promises  of  great  fortune,  treasure hunters  entered  the  labyrinth  and met  ghastly  fates.  The  enchanted walls  and  surfaces  of  the  labyrinth absorbed  the  fear  and  trauma  gener¬ ated  by  the  doomed  intruders,  magi¬ cally  dispersing  the  negative emotions  throughout  the  stronghold to  nourish  the  hungry  lichlings.
For  centuries,  Icelia  has  been spawning  infant  lichlings  and  luring  a steady  supply  of  human  intruders into  the  keep  to  feed  them.  The  lichl¬ ings  continue  to  thrive  and  grow,  and soon  they  will  mature.  When  that time  arrives,  Icelia's  dreams  of  con¬ quest  seem  almost  certain  to  come true.
4
SPECIAL
UNDERWATER
RULES
Some  encounters  in  this  adventure may  occur  underwater.  The  follow¬ ing  rules  adapted  from  the  Player's Handbook  and  the  Dungeon  Master's Guide,  may  prove  helpful.  (For  more detail,  see  the  "Underwater  Combat" section  of  Chapter  9  in  the  DMG.)
Drowning:  The  base  amount  of time  a  character  can  hold  his  or  her breath,  in  rounds,  is  equal  to  1/3  of  the
Constitution  score,  rounded  up.  This assumes  that  the  character  had  the chance  to  take  a  deep  breath  before submerging.  If  the  character  did  not have  the  chance  to  take  a  deep breath,  the  base  time  is  cut  in  half (rounded  up).  Regardless  of  any  appli¬ cable  penalties,  any  character  can hold  his  or  her  breath  for  at  least  one round.
When  the  base  time  expires,  a  sub¬ merged  character  must  make  a  Con¬ stitution  check  once  per  round,  with each  check  after  the  first  taking  a  cu¬ mulative  +2  penalty  to  the  roll  (for
instance,  there  is  a  +2  penalty  for  the second  round,  a  +4  penalty  for  the third  round,  and  so  on).  A  character who  fails  a  check  has  drowned.
Fighting  in  water:  Submerged surface  dwellers  suffer  a  -4  penalty to  their  attacks.  This  penalty  is  cut  in half  if  the  character  has  a  proficiency in  Swimming.  A  character  not  im¬ mersed  in  water  who  tries  hit  an  im¬ mersed  opponent  also  suffers  a  -4 attack  penalty.
These  penalties  don't  apply  to  crea¬ tures  native  to  an  aquatic  environ¬ ment.
5
T
rrx
PROlogae:  Flies  and  Lizards
jcrzx
The  adventure  begins  on  a  secluded hillside  surrounded  by  tall  trees, about  50  miles  west  of  the  Farsea Marshes  (area  1  on  the  Veilstone Peaks  map).
On  a  chilly  autumn  afternoon,  the PCs  have  gathered  at  the  request  of King  Azoun  IV,  the  King  of  Cormyr and  an  old  friend  and  ally  of  the  PCs (or  of  the  PCs'  relatives  or  compan¬ ions).  A  message  delivered  through discreet  diplomatic  channels  sum¬ moned  the  PCs  here  to  learn  about  "a menace  that  threatens  not  only  Cor¬ myr,  but  the  entirety  of  the  Realms."
The  PCs  were  asked  to  come  alone, leaving  their  retainers  and  body¬ guards  at  home,  and  to  bring  what¬ ever  weapons  and  gear  they  felt would  be  necessary  for  a  dangerous mission.  Details  would  be  provided by  an  emissary  of  the  King  named Balko  Verdemeer,  described  as  a short  plump  man  with  bushy  white eyebrows  and  a  bald  head.  Balko  is  to meet  the  PCs  exactly  at  noon.  It  is now  10  minutes  before  the  desig¬ nated  hour.
If  the  PCs  suspect  the  King's  sum¬ mons,  assume  that  they  have  used their  own  resources  to  verify  the  au¬ thenticity  of  the  request  and  the trustworthiness  of  Balko.
An  ominous  day.  A  cold  wind blows  through  the  trees,  scattering brown  autumn  leaves.
You,  the  mightiest  warriors  and most  powerful  mages  in  all  the  land, were  summoned  here  by  a  cryptic message  from  the  King  of  Cormyr. You're  all  impatient,  for  you  have  du¬ ties  elsewhere  that  require  your  at¬ tention.  Yet  you  know  that  the  King would  not  bother  you  with  anything less  than  an  emergency.
Your  thoughts  are  interrupted  by the  sounds  of  galloping  hooves  from the  east.  Eight  black  stallions  ap¬ proach,  huge  and  strong.  They carry  armored  warriors  who  bear gleaming  shields  emblazoned  with
the  sign  of  the  purple  dragon,  the royal  emblem  of  the  King  of  Cor¬ myr.  The  lead  rider  is  a  short, plump,  bald  man  with  bushy  white eyebrows.
He  lifts  his  hand,  and  the  horses stop.  The  bald  man  dismounts. "Good  day,  my  friends,"  he  says,  "I bring  greetings  from  my  king."  His words  are  friendly,  but  his  tone sounds  grim.
THE  THING IN  THE  BOX
The  bald  man  is  Balko  Verdemeer, the  emissary  of  Azoun  IV,  the  King  of Cormyr.  (Use  Generic  Elite  Villager statistics  from  the  Monster  Summary Table,  found  on  the  inside  cover  of the  module).  The  other  seven  war¬ riors  are  his  aides  and  bodyguards (use  Generic  Exceptional  Villager  sta¬ tistics).
Balko  approaches  the  PCs  and  in¬ troduces  himself.  His  aides  dismount and  stand  guard  near  their  horses, their  darting  eyes  alert  for  intruders.
"My  King  apologizes  for  any  incon¬ venience  this  meeting  has  caused you,"  says  Balko,  as  he  sits  gently on  a  tree  stump.  "But  he  felt  that only  the  strongest  and  bravest warriors  of  the  Realms  could  stand against  this  threat.  He  chose  ac¬ cordingly.
"As  for  the  nature  of  the  threat," continues  Balko,  "words  fail  me. Best  to  see  for  yourself."  He  snaps his  fingers,  and  an  aide  brings  over a  small  wooden  box.  Balko  care¬ fully  opens  the  lid,  glances  inside, and  shudders.  Hands  trembling,  he presents  the  open  box  to  you. "Look,"  he  says.
Lying  on  a  silken  cushion  in  the bottom  of  the  box  are  the  dried  re¬ mains  of  a  bizarre  creature.  It's about  six  inches  long.  It  looks  like  a
large  black  cockroach  with  skinny human  arms  and  legs,  a  pair  of  rag¬ ged  gauzy  wings,  and  a  grinning human  skull  for  a  face.  Its  mouth  is lined  with  hooked  fangs.  It's  gro¬ tesque,  but  not  exactly  the  "horror incarnate"  you  heard  about.
The  remains  are  those  of  a  new monster,  a  lichling  (see  page  63).  The PCs  may  examine  the  creature  if  they wish;  its  bony  corpse  is  dried  and  cool to  the  touch,  its  skull  is  chalky.  The corpse  smells  faintly  of  rotten  meat. Spells  such  as  legend  lore  reveal  only that  the  creature  is  of  supernatural origin.
Some  PCs  may  wonder  why  Balko seems  so  intimidated  by  the  lichling.
Balko  tells  you,  "We  found  these  re¬ mains  four  months  ago,  next  to  the corpses  of  a  Cormyr  explorer  and his  horse  in  the  foothills  of  the  Veil- stone  Peaks.  Both  the  explorer  and the  horse  were  completely  muti¬ lated.
"We  looked  around  for  signs  of similar  creatures,  but  we  found nothing.  Some  of  Cormyr' s  best scholars  and  wizards  have  looked at  this  thing.  They  say  the  creature was  insect-like,  as  though  we couldn't  already  tell  that;  but  they couldn't  discover  its  origin.  But they  said  this:  If  more  things  like this  exist,  and  they  breed  like  nor¬ mal  insects,  there  may  be  dozens or  even  hundreds  of  them  matur¬ ing  somewhere.  Can  you  imagine the  damage  that  swarms  of  these things  could  cause?
"And  that  is  why  the  King  called you.  He  asks  you  to  find  this  crea¬ ture's  origin  and  whether  there are  others  like  it.  And  if  so,  he wants  you  to  destroy  them."
6
Deadly
DemoMsTfcaT)c>KJ
Though  the  PCs  are  probably  sympa¬ thetic  to  Balko's  dilemma,  they  may well  wonder  why  they're  needed  for  a job  that  appears  to  be  trivial.  Balko says,  "If  you  wonder  why  we  need  he¬ roes  with  your  reputation,"  and  here  he motions  to  another  aide,  "watch  this."
The  aide  brings  a  canvas  bag  and another  small  box.  Balko  kneels  on the  ground,  indicating  for  the  party to  do  the  same.  The  aide  removes  a handful  of  kindling  from  the  bag, along  with  a  large  glass  jar  filled  with buzzing  flies.  The  aide  lights  a  small fire,  then  inverts  the  jar  of  flies,  hold¬ ing  it  high  over  the  flames  so  that black  smoke  drifts  through  the  holes in  the  wooden  lid.  One  by  one,  the flies  succumb  to  the  smoke,  dropping listlessly.
When  all  flies  have  succumbed  to the  smoke,  the  aide  extinguishes  the fire,  then  opens  the  jar  and  dumps the  flies  on  the  ground.  The  flies crawl  aimlessly  over  the  blades  of grass,  too  debilitated  from  the  smoke to  fly  away.  The  aide  opens  the  box and  dumps  a  pair  of  small  green  liz¬ ards  next  to  the  crawling  flies.  The lizards  cock  their  heads  at  the  PCs, then  notice  the  flies.  Tongues  flicking, the  hungry  lizards  begin  to  stalk  the helpless  insects.  While  the  lizards  en¬ joy  their  meal,  the  aide  gently  places the  lichling  remains  on  the  ground nearby.
"Watch  the  creature,"  says  Balko  to the  party.
As  the  lizards  gulp  down  the flies,  the  remains  of  the  creature twitch  slightly.  The  creature  is  still for  a  moment,  then  begins  to  rock violently,  as  if  reacting  to  electric shocks.
Balko  never  looks  away  from  the twitching  corpse.  He  says,  "We think  that,  in  the  same  way  plants feed  on  sunlight  and  we  feed  on
meat  and  drink,  this  thing  feeds  on fear.  You  can  see,  this  corpse  is  re¬ sponding  to  the  fear  that  the  flies give  off  while  they're  being  eaten by  the  lizards."
He  turns  to  you  with  fear  in  his eyes.  "We  don't  know  what  this means.  Except  this:  That  creature is  an  evil,  unholy  thing."
Let  the  PCs  ask  questions  or  exam¬ ine  the  lichling.  As  the  lizards  feed and  the  husk  twitches,  Balko  con¬ tinues  with  his  story.
"As  I  say,  we  looked  around  the Veilstone  Peaks,  and  we  found  an opening  in  the  earth  near  an  aban¬ doned  keep.  There  were  claw marks  near  the  opening  that looked  like  the  creature's  work.
"The  keep  itself— Wolover's  Keep, they  call  it— has  a  bad  history.  It's one  of  those  ruins  that's  supposed  to be  haunted  and  filled  with  treasure.
It  brings  the  usual  treasure  hunters who  go  down  under  the  keep  and are  never  seen  again.
"Now,  there  are  a  hundred  ruins like  that  all  over  the  Realms.  We  had no  great  interest  in  this  one.  But when  we  found  that  it  might  be  this thing's  lair,  we  hired  one  of  Cormyr's most  renowned  mercenaries,  a  man named  Lenzmin  Tier.  Ever  hear  of him?  He's  the  one  with  a  magical  bat¬ tle  axe  called  Stonesplitter."
The  PCs  have  never  heard  of  Tier.  If you  wish,  you  can  allow  Intelligence checks  to  those  with  appropriate backgrounds  or  lore  proficiencies. Those  who  succeed  dimly  recall  leg¬ ends  of  Stonesplitter,  an  axe  that could  tunnel  through  solid  rock.
Balko  continues.  "So  Tier  went  into the  keep.  That  was  three  months ago.  We  haven't  heard  from  him since.
"Next  we  hired  two  of  the  King's
most  trusted  wizards,  a  sister  and brother  named  Kharla  and  Hakem. Let  me  tell  you,  they  had  powerful magic.  They  entered  the  keep  two months  ago.  They  haven't  re¬ turned.
"At  that  point  the  King  ordered the  Sons  of  Stone  to  storm  the keep.  You  know  them:  the  most  ex¬ perienced  and  skillful  soldiers  in the  King's  army.  More  than  a  hun¬ dred  soldiers  entered  the  keep  a month  ago.  Not  a  single  soldier  has returned."
Balko's  steely  eyes  meet  yours. "Now,  do  you  want  to  talk  terms?"
Pause  to  let  the  players  ask  ques¬ tions.  Balko  answers  them  as  best  he can,  but  he  knows  little  more.  Make sure  the  PCs  understand  the  roster  of their  predecessors:  Lenzmen  Tier; Hakem  and  Kharla;  and  the  Sons  of Stone.
Balko  says,  "If  you  discover  the  ori¬ gin  of  the  creatures  and  destroy their  nests,  the  King  has  autho¬ rized  me  to  deed  each  of  you  a  par¬ cel  of  prime  Cormyran  farmland with  a  guaranteed  annual  profit  of 25,000  gold.  The  King's  agricul¬ tural  council  will  administer  the farms,  free  of  charge.
"Also,  Lenzmin  Tier's  family  has offered  a  reward  of  10,000  gold pieces  for  his  rescue  or  the  return of  his  copper  bracelet,  a  family heirloom.  Kharla  and  Hakem's heirs  will  pay  a  reward  of  12,000 gold  to  find  out  what  happened  to them.  And  the  King  is  also  inter¬ ested  in  what  happened  to  the Sons  of  the  Stone.  If  you  can  find out,  he  will  present  each  of  you with  a  Silver  Shield  of  Cormyr.
"And  there  is  a  personal  favor  I ask  of  you.  It  was  a  group  of  my men  who  conducted  the  search  in the  Veilstone  Peaks  for  clues  about the  creature.  During  the  search,
7
one  of  them,  a  seasoned  veteran named  Cord  Shoddar,  deserted from  the  group.  He  said  he  had just  had  a  vision  about  the  location of  a  fabulous  treasure.  The  other men  couldn't  find  Shoddar.  If  you capture  this  traitor  or  bring  evi¬ dence  of  his  death,  I  will  reward you  each  with  an  amethyst  amulet engraved  with  the  visage  of  an owl,  my  personal  emblem."
A  Silver  Shield  of  Cormyr  functions as  a  large  shield  +1,  +4  versus  mis¬ siles.  Balko's  amulets  are  worth  2,000 gp  apiece.
Que$Tiosi)sig  BaL)co
At  this  point,  Balko  answers  ques¬ tions  as  described  below;  all  his  infor¬ mation  is  accurate.  If  the  PCs  don't ask  the  right  questions,  Balko  offers any  of  the  following  information  you feel  they  should  have.
Can  we  keep  the  creature's corpse?  That's  fine  with  Balko.  (The remains  are  of  no  particular  use  to the  party.)
Where  did  you  find  the  crea¬ ture's  corpse?  How  did  it  die?
Using  a  stick,  Balko  draws  a  crude map  of  the  Veilstone  Peaks  region  in the  dirt.  Draw  a  rough  sketch  on  a piece  of  scrap  paper  of  the  area  rep¬ resented  by  the  Veilstone  Peaks  Map. "It  was  here,"  says  Balko,  indicating  a location  in  the  foothills  near  a  grove of  trees.  Make  an  "X"  on  the  sketch map  indicating  the  approximate  loca¬ tion  of  area  16.
"We  don't  know  how  the  creature died.  It  was  dead  when  we  found  it." (The  lichling  accidentally  escaped  from the  labyrinth  beneath  Wolover's  Keep through  a  network  of  underground passages.  Unaccustomed  to  the  surface world  and  far  removed  from  its  natu¬ ral  surroundings,  the  lichling  died within  an  hour  after  killing  the  Cor- myran  explorer  and  his  horse.)
Can  we  examine  the  bodies  of the  Cormyr  explorer  and  his
mount?  Balko  mumbles  something about  the  impropriety  of  disturbing the  rest  of  the  dead,  but  indicates  an area  near  the  location  where  the creature  was  discovered.  "They  are buried  in  a  shallow  grave."
What  can  you  tell  us  about  the keep?  Who  built  it?  How  long  has it  been  standing?  "The  keep  was built  centuries  ago  by  a  mage  named Amry  Wolover  who  used  at  as  a  labora¬ tory  for  agricultural  research.  We don't  know  the  exact  nature  of  the  re¬ search,  except  that  it  was  supposed  to increase  the  productivity  of  the farmers  in  the  impoverished  Veilstone Peaks  villages.  In  any  case,  there  were no  known  results  from  the  experi¬ ments.  There  are  no  records  of  what happened  to  Wolover."
Is  the  keep  really  haunted?  "The peasants  in  the  region  think  so,  but then  they  always  do.  No  one  has  ever come  back  with  a  first-hand  account."
Is  there  treasure  in  the  keep? "As  far  as  we  know,  this  is  only  a  ru¬ mor.  However,  as  far  as  the  King  is concerned,  any  treasure  you  find  is yours  to  keep."
Where  was  Wolover  from?  "He
was  originally  from  Bedford."  He  indi¬ cates  an  area  in  the  foothills.  Make  an "X"  on  the  sketch  map  indicating  the approximate  location  of  area  12.
Have  any  investigations  been conducted  in  the  Veilstone Peaks  villages?  "The  people  are hard-working  and  honest,  but  they are  also  ignorant  and  superstitious. We  felt  there  was  nothing  to  be gained  from  such  investigations.  You are  welcome  to  ask  around  if  you wish."
Why  all  the  secrecy?  "The  King wants  to  keep  the  discovery  of  the creature  and  the  investigation  quiet, so  as  not  to  instigate  a  panic.  That's why  we  asked  you  to  meet  us  here, and  not  in  a  city  where  your  pres¬ ence  might  raise  questions."
May  we  recruit  volunteers  or hire  retainers  to  go  with  us? "The  King  feels  that  a  small  party
would  attract  the  least  attention  and minimize  rumors.  However,  the  size of  your  party  is  up  to  you."
Neither  Balko  nor  any  of  his  aides accompanies  the  PCs.  "Pressing  en¬ gagements  elsewhere,"  says  Balko tersely.  In  fact,  they're  afraid  to  get close  to  the  keep.  The  party  cannot recruit  volunteers  from  the  Veilstone Peak  villages  for  the  same  reason.
How  can  we  recognize  Lenz- min  Tier?  Kharla  and  Hakem? The  Sons  of  Stone?  Your  traitor¬ ous  aide?  "Tier  is  a  stocky  human who  wears  an  eye  patch  and  carries an  axe  that  glows  green  in  the  dark. The  copper  bracelet  he  wears  is  en¬ graved  with  stars.
"Kharla  and  Hakem  are  in  their mid-thirties  and  have  fair  skin, shoulder-length  black  hair,  and  wear red  velvet  robes.
"The  Sons  of  Stone  wear  silver chest  plates  with  an  onyx  embedded in  the  center.
"My  aide,  Cord  Shoddar,  is  about  40 years  old,  has  short  blonde  hair,  and carries  a  shield  bearing  the  emblem of  the  purple  dragon."
DEPARTURE
If  the  PCs  hesitate  to  accept  the  mis¬ sion,  Balko  says,  "If  the  reward means  nothing  to  you,  then  consider this  request  a  personal  favor  to  the King.  And  should  you  refuse  this  re¬ quest,  the  King  may  be  predisposed  if you  need  his  assistance  in  the  future."
If  the  PCs  accept  the  mission,  Balko thanks  them  "on  behalf  of  the  King and  the  good  people  of  the  Realms." Balko  says  that  he  will  rendezvous with  them  at  this  location  in  two weeks'  time;  if  the  PCs  have  not  yet completed  the  mission,  Balko  and  his aides  will  return  here  every  three days  thereafter.
If  the  PCs  have  no  further  ques¬ tions,  Balko  and  his  aides  mount  their horses,  wish  the  PCs  luck,  and  ride east  towards  Cormyr.
Proceed  to  Chapter  1.
CbapteR  1;  SquiRRels  and  Wasps  j
DM s  OVERVIEW
This  chapter  details  the  party's  in¬ vestigations  in  the  villages  of  the  Veil- stone  Peaks  and  the  exploration  of Wolover's  Keep.  Use  the  Veilstone Peaks  Map  on  the  module  cover  and the  Wolover's  Keep  Map  on  the  color insert  map  for  reference.
Goals
In  this  chapter,  the  PCs  should  ac¬ complish  the  following:
•  hear  rumors  and  legends  associ¬ ated  with  Wolover's  Keep.
•  learn  information  about  Amry  Wo- lover  and  his  experiments.
•  discover  the  body  of  Cord  Shoddar (area  2  of  Level  2  of  the  keep).
•  find  a  rusted  black  key  in  the  cloak¬
room  of  Wolover's  Keep  that  will help  unlock  the  treasure  room door  in  Chapter  3.
•  find  the  gate  in  the  basement  of Wolover's  Keep  that  leads  to  the subterranean  labyrinth.
Give  the  PCs  a  reasonable  chance  to attain  these  goals,  but  don't  reward poor  playing  or  bad  choices.
CUmaTe  astb  TeruzaiKt
The  air  in  the  Veilstone  Peaks  re¬ gion  is  cool  and  dry.  Daytime  temper¬ atures  range  from  the  high  60s  to  the mid-40s.  Nighttime  temperatures plunge  to  the  high  30s.
Most  of  the  region  is  flat  and  empty, with  a  few  areas  of  empty  hills  and sparse  pasture  land,  and  modest woodlands  of  oak  and  birch.  Because it  is  late  autumn,  most  of  the  trees  are barren,  their  brown  and  scarlet leaves  scattered  by  gentle  winds.  For the  most  part,  the  rocky  soil  is  unsuit¬ able  for  vegetation.
The  mountains  of  the  Veilstone Peaks  rise  1,000-2,000  feet  above  sea level.  The  peaks  are  solid  rock,  their faces  smooth  and  sheer;  normal movement  rates  are  halved.
About  the  Villages
The  villages  of  the  Veilstone  Peaks are  among  the  most  destitute  in  the region,  thanks  to  their  limited  natural resources  and  isolation  from  major trade  routes.  Although  linked  by trails,  the  villages  tend  to  keep  to themselves.  Communication  between villages,  as  well  as  with  the  rest  of  the outside  world,  is  limited.
A  typical  village  is  little  more  than  a collection  of  crude  single-room homes  of  wood  and  stone  with  a  few modest  shops  and  storehouses. Though  unsophisticated,  the  villagers are  honest,  friendly,  and  hard¬ working,  struggling  to  make  a  living from  their  small  farms.
All  villagers  are  human  (use  typical villager  statistics).  With  the  exception of  Garnerr  (area  9  on  the  Veilstone Peaks  map),  each  village  is  run  by  a constable  or  sheriff  elected  by  the  cit¬ izens  (use  exceptional  villager  statis¬ tics  for  the  constable).
Though  most  villagers  are  sympa-
9
thetic  to  the  party's  mission,  none  of them  agree  to  accompany  them  to  the keep  at  any  price.
Village  EhJcousjTens
Each  village  encounter  includes  the following  information:
Size:  The  population  of  the  village. Goods:  All  goods  listed  on  the Equipment  Lists  in  Chapter  6  of  the Player's  Handbook  that  are  the  indi¬ cated  value  or  less  are  available  for purchase.  For  instance,  if  the  value limit  is  1  gp,  soft  boots  (price  1  gp)  are for  sale,  but  riding  boots  (price  3  gp) are  not.  No  magical  items  are  availa¬ ble  in  any  of  the  villages.
Information  Level:  This  indi¬ cates  the  quality  of  the  information  in the  village  concerning  Wolover's Keep  and  the  legends  associated  with it.  Because  of  the  general  openness  of the  people,  assume  that  the  party  has no  trouble  finding  talkative  villagers.
Though  willing  to  engage  in  small talk  and  idle  gossip,  most  of  the  vil¬ lagers  have  nothing  useful  to  say about  the  keep;  they  respond  to  such inquiries  with  a  shrug  of  the  shoul¬ ders,  or  a  slighting  comment  such  as "Never  heard  of  it"  or  "I  don't  get  out of  town  all  that  much."  If  the  PCs brought  the  lichling  remains  (from the  Prologue),  the  villagers  are  both repulsed  and  fascinated,  but  none  of them  can  identify  the  creature  or know  anything  about  it.
However,  for  every  hour  the  PCs spend  in  a  village,  they  encounter  a villager  with  (more  or  less)  useful  in¬ formation  about  the  keep.  To  deter¬ mine  the  information  known  by  the villager,  consult  the  Keep  Rumor  Ta¬ ble  below,  and  roll  as  follows: Information  Level  A  =  ld6 Information  Level  B  =  ldlO Information  Level  C  =  ld20 If  you  wish,  choose  specific  infor¬ mation  instead  of  rolling  randomly.
Keep  RumoR  Table
1-2:  Villager  claims  to  know  some¬ thing  useful,  "but  I  have  to  work  so hard  to  make  money  to  buy  food,  my memory's  gone  all  cloudy."  If  the party  gives  a  bribe  of  at  least  1  gp  (or the  equivalent  in  goods),  roll  again  on this  table,  treating  any  roll  below  7  as 7.
3-4:  Says  the  keep  is  a  dangerous place,  but  has  no  specifics.  "I've  just heard  it's  supposed  to  be  bad."  He  says he'll  pray  for  their  safety.
5:  "It's  haunted.  It's  filled  with ghosts  and  evil  spirits.  They  hate  the living."
6:  "Somewhere  inside  is  supposed to  be  a  king's  fortune  in  gold  and jewels."
7:  "The  man  that  built  it  — I  don't know  his  name  —  experimented  with poison.  Some  of  the  poison  seeped into  the  ground  and  permanently contaminated  the  ground  around  the keep."
8:  "The  keep  belonged  to  a  wizard by  the  name  of  Wolover.  He  lived there  over  a  hundred  years  ago,  I heard.  He  was  experimenting  on  in¬ sects,  I  think."
9:  "Wolover  was  a  great  wizard,  but he  was  also  a  great  farmer  — at  least, that's  what  I  hear."
10:  "I  don't  know  who  built  the keep  or  why,  but  I  know  this:  Every¬ body  who  goes  near  it  never  comes back."
11:  "Of  course  the  keep's  haunted. But  it's  not  the  only  haunted  place around  here.  You  ought  to  check  out Garnerr.  That's  where  undead  walk the  forests."  If  asked,  the  villager gives  directions  to  Garnerr.
12:  "The  keep  was  built  by  a  mage named  Wolover,  hundreds  of  years ago.  He  was  a  farmer  who  tried  to find  ways  to  get  rid  of  bad  insects  and make  crops  grow  faster.  Don't  know if  he  ever  came  up  with  anything."
13:  "I  had  a  friend  of  a  friend  who went  up  there  once  — can't  remember his  name.  Anyway,  he  said  that  you could  hear  a  humming  noise  coming
from  the  top  floor.  Sounds  like  ghosts to  me!"
14:  "My  great-grandfather  told  me about  how  a  couple  of  hundred  years ago,  there  was  a  big  earthquake  that shook  the  earth  for  a  hundred  miles. It  knocked  down  trees  and  opened big  cracks  in  the  ground.  He  said  it was  caused  by  the  ghosts  in  Wolover Keep."  (Actually,  it  was  caused  by  Ice- lia,  as  she  hollowed  out  areas  deep  be¬ neath  the  Veilstone  Peaks  to  create her  labyrinth.  The  villager's  sense  of time  is  much  exaggerated;  this  hap¬ pened  less  than  a  century  ago.)
15:  "Up  until  the  day  he  died,  my  fa¬ ther  claimed  that  he  saw  a  ghost  up near  the  keep.  He  said  it  looked  like  a giant  cockroach  with  a  human  skull for  a  head.  The  thing  just  cackled  at him,  then  disappeared."  (If  the  PCs show  this  villager  the  lichling  corpse from  the  Prologue,  the  villager  shud¬ ders  and  says  it  looks  exactly  like  the ghost  his  father  described.)
16:  "Many  have  gone  to  the  keep looking  for  treasure,  but  none  have returned.  The  greedy  fools  deserved their  fates.  Don't  you  think  that  if  the keep  held  treasure  that  someone would  have  found  it  a  long  time  ago?  I don't  think  there's  anything  in  there."
17-  18:  If  the  PCs  ask  the  right  ques¬ tions,  the  villager  answers  as  follows, and  also  supplies  directions  to  the  in¬ dicated  villages.
What  do  you  know  about  un¬ dead  walking  the  streets  of Garnerr?:  (The  PCs  may  have  heard about  this  in  response  11  above.)  "It's true.  Every  day  at  dawn  in  the  forest north  of  the  village."
Where  can  we  find  out  about Amry  Wolover?:  "In  Bedford.  His hometown.  I  think  he's  still  got  rela¬ tives  there."
Where's  the  best  place  to  buy goods?:  "Terrinton  has  the  best  se¬ lection  in  the  area."
Where's  the  best  place  to  buy weapons?:  "There's  a  weaponsmith in  Anster  named  Eveneye.  Just  ask around."
ft
XL
Chapter*  X:  Squirrels  anrt  Wasps
x
X  J-
Where's  the  best  place  to  hear gossip?:  "I'd  try  Redronde.  The  best gossips  this  side  of  Cormyr  live  there."
19-20:  If  the  PCs  ask  about  any  of the  areas  listed  below,  the  villager  an¬ swers  as  follows.
Area  11  — Lilac  Pond:  "That's  a poison  pond.  Drink  one  drop,  and you'll  fall  where  you  stand."
Area  14  — Roster  of  the  Dead: "That  was  started  years  ago,  by  the people  of  Bedford,  I  think,  as  a  memo¬ rial  to  all  the  people  who  ventured  in¬ to  the  Veilstone  Peaks  and  never returned."
Area  13  — Zone  A  or  Area  15  — Zone  B:  "For  ages,  people  have talked  about  experiencing  visions  of wealth  when  they  went  up  the  moun¬ tains.  The  ones  that  followed  the  vi¬ sions  never  came  back.  I  don't  think there's  any  treasure  up  there  — at least,  no  one's  ever  found  any,  to  my knowledge."
The  Chosen  PC
At  various  points  in  this  and  subse¬ quent  chapters,  a  single  player- character  referred  to  as  the  "Chosen PC"  will  experience  a  specific  phe¬ nomenon  as  described  in  the  text. Pick  a  player,  or  roll  randomly,  to  de¬ termine  the  Chosen  PC.  Select  a  new Chosen  PC  whenever  a  new  Chosen PC  phenomenon  is  indicated.
The  Chosen  PC  should  be  a  charac¬ ter  who  has  exhibited  greedy  tenden¬ cies  in  the  past,  or  a  character  who you  believe  has  an  exceptional  inter¬ est  in  treasure.  If  none  of  the  PCs  fit this  description,  choose  any  PC whom  you  wish  to  take  a  more  active role  in  the  adventure.
ENCOUNTER KEY— VEILSTONE PEAKS  MAP
1.  Meeting  Place
Here  in  this  hilly  area,  the  party  met Balko  Verdemeer  in  the  Prologue.
2.  Tiufl.
Because  there  is  little  interaction among  the  communities,  the  trails  in the  Veilstone  Peaks  regions  are  sel¬ dom  traveled.  However,  at  your  op¬ tion,  the  party  may  encounter  ld4 villagers  (use  generic  villager  statis¬ tics).  They  may  be  hunters,  families on  an  outing,  or  religions  pilgrims communing  with  nature,  as  you  pre¬ fer.
The  villagers  have  Information Level  A.  If  asked,  the  villagers  give  di¬ rections  to  their  home  village  (the nearest  village,  or  a  village  of  your choice).
5.  TeririlnTon
Population:  1,400  Goods:  50  gp Information  Level:  B
Thanks  to  their  relatively  fertile farmlands  that  produce  dependable harvests  of  apples,  grapes,  and  other fruits,  Terrinton  is  the  most  prosper¬ ous  village  in  the  area,  with  the  wid¬ est  variety  of  goods  for  sale.  However, they  have  no  weapons  for  sale  other than  those  priced  at  10  gp  or  less  on the  Equipment  Lists  in  Chapter  6  of the  Player's  Handbook.  If  the  PCs  ask any  merchant  where  to  purchase weapons,  they  are  directed  to  the  vil¬ lage  of  Anster.  "Ask  for  the  weapon- smith,  Eveneye."
4.  Melchen
Population:  870  Goods:  10  gp
Information  Level:  C
This  village  is  strangely  calm.  Most of  the  streets  are  empty,  and  the  few villagers  in  evidence  look  drawn  and sullen.  Black  candles  burn  on  the doorsteps  of  many  of  the  homes.  If the  PCs  ask  a  villager  what's  going  on, he  explains  that  the  residents  are grieving  the  loss  of  their  beloved  ad¬ ministrator,  a  skilled  diviner  named Xamine  (ZAM-min).  "Insects  de¬ stroyed  our  crops  this  year,"  sniffs  the
villager.  "We  faced  starvation.  Xamine went  to  Wolover  Keep  to  search  for the  treasure.  He  was  going  to  use  the treasure  to  buy  food  for  us.  He  left thirty  days  ago  and  has  not  returned."
If  the  PCs  offer  to  search  for Xamine,  the  villagers  gratefully  ac¬ cept.  The  villagers  describe  Xamine as  a  50-year-old  male  who  wears  an eye  patch  over  his  left  eye  and  a  sil¬ ver  medallion  around  his  neck;  the medallion  is  shaped  like  an  eagle's head.  The  villagers  have  no  other  in¬ formation  about  Xamine,  except  that about  three  months  ago,  Xamine  held several  private  meetings  with  a stocky  human  who  carried  an  axe that  glowed  green  in  the  dark.  (The PCs  may  recognize  the  description  of Lenzmin  Tier  from  the  Prologue.) The  villagers  don't  know  what  the meetings  were  about.
Just  for  offering  to  search  for Xamine,  the  villagers  give  the  party  a plate  of  black  cookies  made  from herbs  and  powdered  minerals.  Ac¬ cording  to  the  villagers,  the  cookies cancel  the  effects  of  any  poison. There  are  six  cookies;  eating  a  cookie has  the  same  effect  as  a  neutralize poison  spell.  Xamine  prepared  the cookies  before  he  left  and  gave  them to  the  villagers  as  a  gift.  If  the  PCs  lo¬ cate  Xamine,  or  return  with  his  me¬ dallion,  the  villagers  promise  them samples  of  other  magical  cookies.
As  will  be  seen  in  Chapter  3, Xamine  is  dead.  (He  was  conferring with  Tier  about  strategies  for  enter¬ ing  the  keep.  Both  men  had  misinfor¬ mation  that  led  them  wrong.)  If  the PCs  return  Xamine's  medallion  to Melcher,  the  villagers  make  good  on their  promise  and  give  them  six  green cookies,  each  of  which  functions  as  a dose  of  potion  of  extra-healing.  These cookies  were  also  prepared  by Xamine.
5.  fishing  Boys
If  the  PCs  enter  the  area  on  the  map enclosed  by  the  dotted  line,  they  en¬ counter  two  boys  (use  typical  villager
11
statistics)  with  fishing  poles  slung over  their  shoulders.  The  boys' names  are  Garf  and  Terrett;  they  live in  Hetchit.  The  affable  boys  ask  the PCs  their  names,  their  homes,  and why  they're  in  the  area,  speculating that  such  impressive-looking  charac¬ ters  must  be  on  a  very  important  mis¬ sion.
The  boys  have  no  particularly  use¬ ful  information  for  the  party  (they are  of  Information  Level  A),  but  if  the party  asks  them  anything  about  fish¬ ing,  the  boys  tell  them  that  the  best place  to  fish  in  the  area  is  Doff's  Lake. "Whatever  you  do,  stay  away  from  Li¬ lac  Pond  — it's  poisonous.  You  can  get hurt  just  from  breathing  the  air."  If asked,  the  boys  offer  directions  to Hetchit,  Doff's  Lake,  and  Lilac  Pond.
6.  Hetchit
Population:  610  Goods:  10  gp
Information  Level:  A
Hetchit  is  a  small,  dirty  village
where  streams  of  sewage  run through  the  streets  and  the  rancid  air reeks  of  rotting  garbage.  There  is nothing  of  particular  interest  here. However,  the  villagers  aren't  particu¬ larly  good  at  bartering;  for  any  availa¬ ble  item,  they  accept  half  the  price  on the  Equipment  Lists  in  Chapter  6  of the  Player's  Handbook.
7 .  Doff  5  Lake
This  clear  lake  is  thick  with  game fish:  pike,  bream,  loach,  and  innu¬ merable  minnows.  Any  PC  fishing  in the  pond  does  so  as  if  he  or  she  has Fishing  proficiency.  A  PC  who  actu¬ ally  has  Fishing  proficiency  catches twice  as  many  fish  as  normally  al¬ lowed  (see  Chapter  5  in  the  Player's Handbook).
8.  AwsTor
Population:  870  Goods:  5  gp
Information  Level:  B
A  wooden  fence  surrounds  this poor  but  neatly  kept  village.  Chick¬ ens,  goats,  and  other  farm  animals roam  freely  in  the  streets.
The  party  may  inquire  about  the availability  of  weapons  in  this  village; they  might  have  learned  about  a noted  Anster  weaponsmith  as  a  result of  a  roll  on  the  Keep  Rumor  Table  or by  inquiring  in  Terrinton.  They  are directed  to  a  shack  on  the  outskirts  of town.  This  is  the  home  of  Eveneye (use  exceptional  villager  statistics),  an immensely  overweight  man  about  60 years  old,  with  thin  lips  and  squinty eyes.  Eveneye  proudly  says  that  each of  his  weapons  is  hand-made  from oak  and  is  more  effective  than  con¬ ventional  weapons.
It  takes  the  weaponsmith  two  full days  to  make  any  one  weapon.  He  can make  any  of  the  following  at  the  given price  (non-negotiable);  each  does  the listed  amount  of  damage.  The  PCs  can order  as  many  weapons  as  they  like, but  they  must  pay  in  advance.
12
Ojaptew  I:  SqoiRRpis  arjft  Wasps
jx
j£— c
EveweYe’s  Weapows
Weapon
Eveneye's  club Eveneye's  mace Eveneye's  javelin
Price  Damage
10  gp  ld6+l 15  gp  ld6+2 15  gp  ld6+2
and  he  remains  silent  throughout  the party's  audience  with  Jenzen.
Lynce:  2nd-level  priest;  AL  NG;  AC 10;  MV  12;  hp  7;  THACO  20;  #AT  1; Dmg  ld4  (staff).  Spells:  1st  Level:  2.
9.  Garzsjerzrz
Population:  1210  Goods:  30  gp
Information  Level:  A
Among  the  area's  larger  villages, Garnerr  is  surrounded  by  forests  of oak  trees,  which  the  villagers  use  to manufacture  a  variety  of  simple products,  including  carts  (30  gp),  fur¬ niture  (tables  for  5  gp,  chairs  for  2 gp),  and  small  chests  (2  gp).
The  PCs  may  ask  a  villager  about undead  that  supposedly  lurk  in  the forest  north  of  town;  the  party  may have  heard  such  rumors  as  a  result  of a  roll  on  the  Keep  Rumor  Table.  The villager  becomes  anxious.  "You've heard  right,"  he  whispers.  "At  sun¬ rise,  watch  the  woods  just  north  of 'King'  Jenzen' s  house.  A  zombie  will come  out!"  No  one  has  a  good  descrip¬ tion  of  the  zombie,  and  no  one  will  go near  the  area  where  the  zombie  alleg¬ edly  appears.
If  the  PCs  go  to  'King'  Jenzen's home  — a  modest  wooden  structure north  of  town,  about  50  yards  south of  a  thickly  wooded  area  — he  wel¬ comes  them  graciously.  A  pig-faced man  of  about  40  years  with  beady eyes  and  a  thin  moustache  (use  excep¬ tional  villager  statistics),  Jenzen  is  a self-proclaimed  king;  unlike  other  ad¬ ministrators  in  the  Veilstone  Peaks villages,  the  rule  of  Garnerr  is  passed from  father  to  son.  However,  Garnerr is  essentially  self-ruling,  since  Jenzen remains  in  a  drunken  stupor  most  of the  time.
Jenzen  listens  passively  to  what¬ ever  the  party  has  to  say,  more  inter¬ ested  in  savoring  the  wine  in  his  silver goblet  than  engaging  in  conversation. Jenzen  is  attended  by  his  aide,  a  50- year-old  priest  named  Lynce.  The priest  wears  dark  peasant  clothes.
If  asked  about  the  keep,  Jenzen says  he  knows  nothing  about  it.  "It's supposed  to  be  haunted.  But  who knows?  Or  cares?"  If  asked  about sightings  of  undead  in  the  area,  Jen¬ zen  shrugs  and  says  such  reports  are absurd.  Lynce  has  nothing  to  add. The  party  learns  nothing  useful  at this  time.
If  the  PCs  investigate  the  king's grounds  at  dawn,  they  notice  that shortly  after  the  sun  rises,  Jenzen pokes  his  head  out  the  north  window of  his  home  and  aims  a  silver  rod  to¬ wards  the  forest.  If  the  PCs  approach and  ask  what  he's  doing,  Jenzen  tells them  it's  none  of  their  business.
If  the  PCs  continue  to  watch,  they notice  a  robed  figure  appearing  on the  edge  of  the  forest.  Jenzen  aims  his rod  at  the  figure.  A  beam  of  light flares  from  the  rod  and  strikes  the  fig¬ ure,  who  clutches  his  chest  and  col¬ lapses.  Satisfied,  Jenzen  disappears into  his  home.  If  the  PCs  later  ap¬ proach  Jenzen,  he  again  refuses  to discuss  his  actions.
If  the  PCs  take  no  actions,  but  re¬ turn  the  following  morning,  this scene  plays  out  as  described,  as  it does  every  morning.
If  the  PCs  investigate  the  woods within  10  rounds  after  the  figure  col¬ lapses,  they  see  that  the  figure  has risen  from  the  ground  and  is  trying  to sneak  away;  the  PCs  can  easily  inter¬ cept  him.  If  more  than  10  rounds elapse,  the  figure  loses  himself  in  the woods  and  eludes  capture.  (The  PCs can  also  easily  intercept  the  figure  be¬ fore  the  king  blasts  him  with  the  light beam.)
A  hood  conceals  the  figure's  face;  if the  party  uncovers  him,  he  is  re¬ vealed  to  be  Lynce.  With  the  slightest coercion  from  the  party,  Lynce  con¬
fesses  that  he  plays  out  this  ruse  with the  unknowing  Jenzen  every  morn¬ ing.
"About  five  years  ago,"  he  explains, "the  king  got  it  into  his  head  that  he'd lost  the  respect  of  the  villagers.  He  de¬ cided  the  best  way  to  earn  their  re¬ spect  was  to  make  them  fearful,  and the  best  way  to  make  them  fearful was  to  execute  one  of  them  at  ran¬ dom  each  morning.
"I  couldn't  talk  him  out  of  it,  so  I constructed  a  phony  magical  weapon for  him  that  blasts  beams  of  harmless light.  Every  morning,  I  appear  in  the woods,  and  Jenzen  thinks  I'm  one  of the  villagers  — he's  always  too  drunk to  know  the  difference.  He  shoots  me and  I  pretend  to  die.  Afterwards,  I sneak  back  to  the  house."  Lynce  adds that  a  real  villager  must  have  ob¬ served  him  rising  one  day,  which  is how  the  rumors  of  undead  walking  in the  woods  got  started.
Lynce  begs  the  party  not  to  reveal the  truth  to  Jenzen.  "It's  a  harmless ruse.  You've  got  nothing  to  gain  by  ex¬ posing  me."  If  the  party  promises  not to  tell  Jenzen,  Lynce  tells  them  any¬ thing  he  knows.  "I'm  a  student  of  his¬ tory.  I  know  more  than  most  people." If  the  PCs  swear  not  to  expose  Lynce, and  if  they  ask  the  right  questions, Lynce  furnishes  the  following  infor¬ mation:
•  Amry  Wolover  was  a  wizard  of  un¬ paralleled  skill  engaged  in  agricul¬ tural  research  that  he  hoped would  lift  the  entire  Veilstone Peaks  region  out  of  poverty.  "He was  a  good  man  with  a  good  heart."
•  One  of  Wolover's  pet  projects  was finding  a  way  to  control  pests.  "He was  working  on  two  methods.  One was  to  create  a  powerful  poison that  would  kill  insects  and  other pests.  The  other  was  to  develop  a species  of  predator  insects  that  fed on  insects  harmful  to  the  crops. Neither  method  worked."
•  No  one  knows  what  happened  to Wolover.  "He  never  left  his  keep.
13
Perhaps  he's  still  there."
If  the  PCs  betray  Lynce  to  Jenzen  (if they  go  back  on  their  word,  or  refuse to  make  the  promise  in  the  first place),  Jenzen  rejects  their  explana¬ tion;  nothing  can  convince  him  that the  trusted  Lynce  is  disguising  him¬ self.  Before  the  party  leaves,  the vengeful  Lynce  tries  to  cast  destroy water  and  putrefy  food  and  drink  on their  supplies.  If  the  party  protests, Lynce  denies  responsibility  and  Jen¬ zen  defends  him.
1 0.  R edrzosjde
Population:  840  Goods:  10  gp
Information  Level:  See  below
Sparse  grain  fields  surround  this village  of  small  but  well-constructed wooden  shacks.  All  villagers  in  Re- dronde  have  been  mobilized  to  con¬ struct  an  intricate  network  of irrigation  ditches  to  expand  the  vil¬ lage's  agricultural  prospects,  a  pro¬ ject  they  are  struggling  to  complete before  winter.  The  hard  work  has  put everyone  in  a  bad  mood.
If  the  PCs  interview  the  villagers, roll  ld6  once  per  hour  on  the  Keep Rumor  Table  (Information  Level  A); this  information  is  given  grudgingly, as  if  the  villagers  can  barely  tolerate the  intrusion  of  the  PCs.  However,  if the  PCs  volunteer  to  pitch  in,  the  vil¬ lagers'  attitude  changes  dramatically. For  every  hour  the  party  spends  dig¬ ging  the  ditches  alongside  the  vil¬ lagers,  roll  ldlO  and  add  10  to  the result  when  consulting  the  Keep  Ru¬ mor  Table.  The  now-friendly  villagers are  more  willing  to  share  their choicest  bits  of  information  and  gos¬ sip.
11.  UIac  Lake
This  is  a  still  lake  of  slightly  yel¬ lowed  water  that  emits  a  powerful aroma  of  lilacs,  noticeable  from  as  far as  100  yards  distant,  growing stronger  as  the  party  nears.  A  60'  ring
of  blackened  earth  surrounds  the lake.  The  black  earth  appears  to  have been  scorched  by  fire.
Centuries  ago,  Amry  Wolover dumped  the  results  of  a  failed  experi¬ ment  in  the  lake,  an  attempt  to  create a  chemical  that  would  kill  farm  pests. The  lake  was  permanently  polluted by  the  magical  chemical.
Any  PC  who  comes  within  20  yards of  the  lake  must  save  vs.  poison  or  fall unconscious,  succumbing  to  the fumes.  The  character  immediately suffers  2d4  damage,  plus  ld4  damage each  round  thereafter  until  moved out  of  the  black  earth  area.  If  the  wa¬ ter  contacts  any  PC's  skin,  the  PC must  save  vs.  poison  or  die;  a  success¬ ful  save  still  means  3d6  damage.
12.  Bedforzd
Population:  580  Goods:  5  gp
Information  Level:  C
This  is  a  village  of  stone  huts  built  in the  foothills  of  the  Veilstone  Peaks. The  villagers  farm  small  plots  of  pota¬ toes  and  peas  in  the  rocky  soil.
If  the  PCs  ask  about  living  relatives of  Amry  Wolover,  villagers  direct them  to  a  home  about  a  mile  west  of town.  "That's  Arlin  Wolover's  place. You  can't  miss  it.  Just  look  for  the birds."
The  villagers'  directions  lead  the party  to  a  small  stone  hut  built  against the  side  of  a  barren  hill.  The  tall  trees surrounding  the  hut  at  first  glance appear  to  be  lush  with  brown  leaves, but  closer  inspection  reveals  that  the tree  limbs  are  covered  with  hundreds of  tiny  brown  birds.  A  successful  In¬ telligence  check  identifies  the  birds  as canaries.  The  canaries  eye  the  party impassively.  If  the  PCs  disturb  the  ca¬ naries,  they  flutter  away,  only  to  re¬ turn  to  the  trees  moments  later.
A  smiling  old  man,  at  least  80  years old  (use  typical  villager  statistics), waves  at  the  party  from  the  doorway. Wisps  of  white  hair  cover  his  head.  A pair  of  canaries  perch  on  his  shoul¬ der.  "Visitors!"  he  exclaims.  "Or  per¬
haps  you're  shoppers?  Can  I  interest you  in  a  fine  .  .  .  canary?"
The  man  introduces  himself  as Arlin  Wolover,  then  asks  the  party's names  and  homelands,  accepting whatever  information  they  care  to  of¬ fer.  He  welcomes  them  inside  his  clut¬ tered  home,  filled  with  perches  and bird  cages.  Canaries  are  everywhere, and  the  room  reeks  of  droppings.
Arlin  is  honest,  friendly,  and  wel¬ comes  the  company  of  the  PCs,  con¬ versing  with  them  freely  regardless of  whether  they  buy  a  canary  (5  cp each).  If  the  PCs  asks  the  right  ques¬ tions,  he  supplies  the  following  infor¬ mation:
•  He  is  indeed  the  descendant  of Amry  Wolover.  "The  last  one,  as  far as  I  know.  And  if  I  don't  hurry  up and  find  me  a  wife,  there  won't  be any  more."
•  Amry  was  a  great  wizard  and  a great  farmer.  Arlin  doesn't  know much  about  Amry's  agricultural  re¬ search,  except  that  some  of  it sought  a  way  to  increase  the  birth¬ rate  of  animals.  "That's  where  all  of these  canaries  came  from.  Amry's cousin,  Laudan,  who  built  this place,  loved  canaries.  Amry  gave him  a  mated  pair  of  birds  that  were treated  with  some  kind  of  special formula.  The  birds  bred  like  crazy. In  fact,  all  of  these  birds  descended from  that  original  pair."  Arlin shows  the  PCs  a  canary  nest  that contains  about  50  tiny  eggs.  "They lay  that  many  every  few  weeks." The  eggs  and  canaries  radiate slight  magic.
•  If  pressed,  Arlin  admits  the  canar¬ ies  aren't  worth  much.  They  don't sing,  they're  too  scrawny  to  eat, and  they  usually  don't  live  longer  a few  months.  "Which  I  suppose  is  a good  thing.  Otherwise,  I'd  be  over¬ run  with  them."
•  Amry  built  Wolover  Keep  as  a  place to  conduct  his  research  in  private. "I  don't  know  what  happened  to him,  but  it  had  to  be  something
14
Chapter  1:  SqufttReEs  and  Wasps
JL
bad.  The  place  is  crawling  with ghosts  now  — at  least  that's  what  I hear."
•  Rumors  have  spread  for  decades about  the  treasure  supposedly  hid¬ den  in  the  keep,  but  nobody  has ever  found  any.  "That's  why  Bed¬ ford  is  as  small  as  it  is.  Everybody went  looking  for  treasure,  and none  of  'em  ever  came  back."  He describes  a  mountain  cliff  that  lists the  names  of  hundreds  of  treasure hunters  who  never  returned,  in¬ scribed  in  the  cliff  by  their  families. If  the  PCs  ask,  Amry  gives  them general  directions  to  area  14.
15.  Zone  A
Shortly  after  the  party  enters  this area,  the  Chosen  PC  sees  what  ap¬ pears  to  be  the  glitter  of  gold  in  a  pile of  stones  about  20  yards  distant.  If the  party  investigates,  they  see  no signs  of  the  gold.
The  gold  was  an  illusion  generated by  the  supernatural  forces  within  the area,  created  as  a  lure  to  draw  the greedy  closer  to  the  keep.  This  illu¬ sion  attracted  Cord  Shoddar,  Balko's traitorous  aide  (see  Prologue).
14.  RosTetz  of  the Dead
The  face  of  a  stone  cliff  has  been  in¬ scribed  with  hundreds  of  names. From  the  condition  of  the  inscrip¬ tions,  some  appear  to  have  been carved  decades  ago;  others  are clearly  recent.  Residents  from  the  vil¬ lage  of  Bedford  have  been  carving these  names  for  generations  as  a  me¬ morial  to  those  who  went  into  the Veilstone  Peaks  in  search  of  treasure and  never  returned.
None  of  the  names  has  particular significance  to  the  party.  However,  if a  PC  studies  the  roster  for  two  con¬ secutive  rounds,  he  notices  that  his own  name  is  listed.  If  he  looks  away, or  summons  a  companion  to  look,  he can  no  longer  find  his  name.  Only  one PC  experiences  this  phenomenon,  not
necessarily  the  Chosen  PC.  The  phe¬ nomenon  is  a  result  of  the  supernatu¬ ral  forces  permeating  the  area.
15.  Zone  B
Shortly  after  the  party  enters  this area,  the  Chosen  PC  collapses  to  the ground  and  lapses  into  unconscious¬ ness  (no  saving  throw).  He  can  be  re¬ vived  by  a  slap  from  a  companion, water  in  the  face,  or  similar  stimuli.
While  unconscious,  the  Chosen  PC experiences  a  vivid  vision  of  an  im¬ mense  golden  door  studded  with black  diamonds.  Three  keyholes  are centered  the  door.  The  door  swings open  to  reveal  mountains  of  dia¬ monds,  emeralds,  and  other  precious gems.  (As  with  the  Area  13  illusion, this  vision  is  intended  to  draw  the greedy  closer  to  the  keep.)
16.  Bvuzi&L  Mouwd
Near  a  grove  of  leafless  trees  is  a mound  of  earth.  This  covers  the  re¬ mains  of  the  soldier  and  his  mount discovered  by  Balko  Verdemeer's  men (see  the  Prologue).  The  remains  are  a human  corpse  and  a  horse  corpse; both  bodies  have  been  clawed  and shredded,  as  if  attacked  by  a  vicious animal.  There  is  nothing  of  interest buried  with  the  bodies.
A  few  yards  from  the  grave  is  an  8 inch-diameter  hole  in  the  side  of  a granite  hill.  This  is  where  the  lichling emerged  that  attacked  the  horse  and rider.  If  the  PCs  examine  the  hole, they  see  claw  marks  defacing  its  cir¬ cumference.  The  PCs  cannot  deter¬ mine  what  type  of  creature  made  the claw  marks.
If  the  PCs  can  enter  the  hole  (per¬ haps  by  consuming  a  potion  of  dimi¬ nution),  they  discover  an  intricate tunnel  network  that  winds  deep  into the  earth.  Following  the  tunnel  sys¬ tem  proves  futile;  the  empty  tunnels twist  and  turn  for  dozens  of  miles. (The  lichling  found  its  way  to  the  sur¬ face  world  by  traveling  through  this tunnel  system  from  the  stronghold
below  the  keep.)
17.  Empty  Fields
These  sprawling  acres  of  tilled  soil are  primarily  notable  for  their  utter lack  of  vegetation;  not  a  single  blade of  grass  nor  the  tiniest  weed  grows here.  Some  areas  smell  faintly  of  lilac, some  of  cinnamon,  and  some  of  alco¬ hol.
Wolover  used  these  fields  to  test  his various  magical  pesticides  and  fertil¬ izers.  Though  the  fields  aren't  poison¬ ous,  the  earth  is  so  contaminated  that no  plants  can  grow  here.
18.  Woloveiis  Keep
An  icy  wind  chills  you  as  you  stare at  the  old  stone  tower  before  you. It  looks  empty,  dark,  and  grim  as  a crypt.  Its  windows  are  shattered. The  tarnished  copper  door  is closed.
Though  the  keep  once  comprised numerous  buildings,  only  the  central tower  remains  somewhat  intact;  the rest  of  the  keep  consists  of  crumbled walls  filled  with  rubble  and  debris. Behind  the  keep  is  a  well  shaft  500' deep,  once  the  keep's  main  water  sup¬ ply,  now  dry  and  useless.
The  black  granite  tower  is  about 150'  in  diameter  and  many  stories tall,  but  only  the  first  four  levels  are accessible  (see  below);  the  rest  are  ru¬ ined.  There  are  4'x4'  broken  win¬ dows  on  all  but  the  first  floor.  PCs able  to  climb  walls  can  scale  the  side of  the  keep  and  enter  any  window. Otherwise,  the  party  may  open  the copper  door,  the  only  ground  en¬ trance  to  the  tower.  (See  #1  on  the key  below.)
When  the  PCs  enter  the  keep,  con¬ tinue  with  the  Wolover' s  Keep  Map Key.
15
ENCOUNTER KEY— WOLOVER’S KEEP
Gesjerzdl  lbJfoKmdVosj
Amry  Wolover  built  the  keep  sev¬ eral  centuries  ago  to  serve  as  both  his home  and  a  laboratory  in  which  to conduct  his  magical  research.  The tower  is  made  entirely  out  of  granite, except  for  the  interior  wooden  doors. The  doors  are  splintered  and  rotten. Those  not  already  ajar  are  unlocked and  easily  opened.
All  objects  of  value  are  long  gone, taken  by  looters  or  rendered  useless by  the  ravages  of  time.  Hundreds  of would-be  treasure  hunters  have  been drawn  to  the  keep  over  the  ages,  most of  whom  have  disappeared  through the  gate  in  the  basement  (see  below), never  to  return.  A  close  examination of  the  floor  throughout  the  tower  re¬ veals  numerous  scuff  marks,  made  by the  boots  of  previous  intruders.
The  air  is  cool,  damp,  and  musty. There  are  no  light  sources,  natural  or otherwise.  Except  where  indicated, the  tower  is  as  silent  as  a  tomb.
LEVEL  1
This  level  contains  Wolover's  living quarters.  Within  a  few  rounds  after the  party  has  entered  this  level,  they hear  intermittent  scratching  sounds coming  from  above,  as  if  clawed  crea¬ tures  were  trying  to  dig  through  the ceiling.  (A  pair  of  giant  squirrels  is making  the  sounds.  See  the  Level  2 section  for  details.)
1.  Copperz  Door
The  tarnished  copper  door  is  fea¬ tureless,  except  for  a  single  thick  ring, about  a  foot  on  diameter,  on  the  right side.  Any  PC  who  succeeds  in  a Strength  check  pulls  open  the  door; any  two  PCs  working  together  can  pull open  the  door  automatically.  The  cop¬
per  hinges  squeak  loudly  as  the  door opens.  Musty  air  drifts  out  from  inside, stale  and  cold.  The  interior  is  pitch black.
1.  EkjT^v  Way
This  room  is  empty,  except  for  a pair  of  l'-tall  ivory  statues  in  the  up¬ per  corners  of  the  north  wall.  The statues  resemble  tiny  humans  with bloated  bellies,  leathery  wings,  and spindly  arms  ending  in  long  claws. The  statues  beat  their  wings,  wave their  arms,  and  clack  their  teeth when  the  party  enters;  however,  they don't  move  from  their  corners.
Originally,  Wolover  constructed these  statues  to  attack  any  unauthor¬ ized  visitors,  but  over  the  centuries their  enchantments  have  waned.  Now incapable  of  conducting  attacks,  they can  do  nothing  but  clack  and  wave.
5.  CLoak  Room
Three  empty  iron  hooks  extend from  the  wall  that  Wolover  used  to hang  his  coats.  A  filthy,  ragged  gar¬ ment  lies  crumpled  in  the  southwest corner.  This  is  a  cloth  waistcoat,  rot¬ ted  and  torn.  A  pattern  of  small  cir¬ cles  covers  the  garment;  Wolover favored  this  pattern.
A  small  black  key  is  in  the  left pocket;  the  iron  key  is  covered  with rust.  The  key  doesn't  fit  any  lock  in the  keep;  it's  one  of  three  keys  needed to  unlock  the  treasure  room  door  in Chapter  3.  (Every  treasure  hunter takes  this  key,  but  it  returns  here  af¬ ter  the  hunter  meets  the  customary doom.  Icelia  has  made  this  enchant¬ ment  undetectable.)
A.  Wood  Room
Wolover  used  this  room  to  store cords  of  wood  to  fuel  his  furnace (Area  5),  but  now  nothing  remains but  a  small  pile  of  moldy  sawdust.
5.  PuRhJdce
This  is  a  spherical  iron  furnace,  fu¬
eled  by  wood,  that  Wolover  used  to heat  the  tower  during  the  cold months  of  winter.  An  exhaust  tube leads  though  a  screened  hole  in  the west  wall  to  expel  smoke.  Three  thick iron  rods,  now  covered  with  rust,  ex¬ tend  upward  through  the  tower.  The rods  were  enchanted  to  conduct heat,  but  the  magic  no  longer  func¬ tions.  If  the  party  starts  a  fire  in  the furnace,  this  level  warms  up,  but  the upper  levels  don't.
6.  STudy
Used  by  Wolover  as  a  study,  most  of this  room  has  been  destroyed  by looters  and  the  passage  of  time. Against  the  south  wall  are  what  origi¬ nally  were  chairs,  tables,  and  book¬ shelves;  they're  now  little  more  than piles  of  sawdust  and  rotten  planks.
Against  the  west  wall,  Wolover's large  oaken  desk  has  survived  more  or less  intact.  But  all  the  drawers  have been  pulled  out  and  demolished,  their contents  — pencil  stubs,  broken  glass,  a few  buttons,  some  rotted  and  indeci¬ pherable  parchments  — scattered  on the  floor.  Likewise,  a  large  bookshelf next  to  the  desk  has  been  toppled,  the contents  — books,  parchments,  notes  — piled  in  the  northwest  corner;  the  pile now  resembles  a  mound  of  black sludge,  interspersed  with  planks  of  rot¬ ten  wood  and  a  few  illegible  scraps  of parchment  that  haven't  completely  rot¬ ted  away.
If  the  party  disturbs  the  debris  pile, they  arouse  a  nest  of  immature  mega- locentipedes,  who  scramble  from  the debris  and  try  to  bite  random  PCs. The  young  megalocentipedes,  each about  a  foot  long,  fight  to  the  death but  will  not  leave  this  room.
Young  megalocentipedes  (6):  Int
non;  AL  N;  AC  7;  MV  15;  2  hp  each; THACO  20;  #AT  1;  Dmg  nil;  SA  poi¬ son  (bitten  victim  must  save  vs.  poi¬ son  or  suffer  ld6  acid  damage);  SZ T;  ML  5;  XP  35.
16
Two  rounds  after  the  PCs  disturb the  young  megalocentipedes,  the mother  megalocentipede  who  was scrounging  for  food  in  the  library (area  7)  scuttles  through  the  north door  of  the  study  and  attacks  the  PCs for  threatening  her  babies.  The  mega¬ locentipede  fights  to  the  death,  pur¬ suing  anywhere  in  the  keep.
Adult  megalocentipede:  Int  ani¬ mal;  AL  N;  AC  5;  MV  18;  HD  3;  hP 21;  THACO  17;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld3;  SA poison  (bitten  victim  must  save  vs. poison,  failure  means  death,  suc¬ cess  means  2d4  acid  damage);  SZ  M; ML  10;  XP  175.
If  the  PCs  defeat  the  centipedes  and search  the  debris  pile,  they  may  dis¬ cover  several  interesting  documents, each  specially  treated  by  Wolover  to withstand  the  passage  of  time.  It takes  10  rounds  of  searching  to  locate each  document:
•  Some  general  notes  about  an  ex¬ periments  involving  the  acceler¬ ated  growth  of  farm  animals. Though  the  details  are  vague,  the experiments  apparently  were  fail¬ ures.
•  Notes  about  a  project  to  develop predator  insects  to  feed  on  insects harmful  to  agricultural  crops.  Be¬ low  these  notes  is  a  diagram  for  the construction  of  a  rod  that  the  notes say  will  "disperse  swarms  of  all  in¬ sect  life.  Keep  near  hatchery  for emergencies."  The  rod,  about  two feet  long,  appears  to  be  made  of gold  with  a  white  pearl  on  the  end. The  party  can't  manufacture  such a  device  from  these  sketchy  notes.
•  A  scrawled  note  with  the  word  IM¬ PORTANT  written  in  large  letters across  the  top.  Underneath  is  writ¬ ten  SUBSTANCE  2C/XA  NEGATES SUBSTANCE  S3/A.  (These  sub¬ stances  are  experimental  materi¬ als,  stored  elsewhere  in  the  keep. Substance  S3/  A  is  a  highly  poison¬ ous  experimental  fertilizer  and
pesticide  combination.  Substance
2C/XA  negates  the  effects  of  the  S3/
A  poison.)
7 .  Ubmai\
If  the  party  didn't  disturb  the  debris pile  in  area  6,  the  megalocentipede lurking  in  this  room  attacks  as  soon  as the  PCs  enter  (see  area  6  for  details).
Wooden  bookshelves  once  lined  the walls  of  this  immense  room  from floor  to  ceiling,  but  all  have  been  top¬ pled  and  smashed.  The  remains  of hundreds  of  books  are  strewn  on  the floor,  their  pages  crumbled  to  dust.
If  the  PCs  look  through  the  mess, they  find  a  few  reasonably  intact leather  covers  that  indicate  the  type of  books  kept  here.  Typical  titles  in¬ clude  The  Gentleman  Farmer,  Mod¬ ern  Alchemical  Fertilizer  Techniques, Merle's  Guide  to  Animal  Husbandry, and  Chickens:  From  the  Egg  to  the Dinner  Table.
8.  PensonA l  QuAtiTeizs
Scattered  about  this  room  are  the broken  and  rotten  remains  of  a  small night  stand,  a  featherbed  and  several cotton  blankets,  and  a  wooden  chest. There  is  nothing  of  interest.
9.  Closet
There  are  several  iron  hooks  im¬ bedded  in  the  wall,  all  empty.  Several filthy  shirts  and  pairs  of  torn  cotton trousers  are  strewn  on  the  floor,  all emblazoned  with  small  circles.
1 0.  LadaTory
This  room  contains  a  broken wooden  table,  a  cracked  ceramic chamber  pot,  a  rusty  metal  wash  ba¬ sin,  and  nothing  of  interest.
11.  Kitchen
Broken  cups,  plates,  and  goblets  fill the  floor,  along  with  an  assortment  of dented  pots  and  kettles.  A  wooden cupboard  has  been  tipped  and
smashed.  Splintered  shelves  dangle from  the  walls.  There  is  nothing  here of  interest.
12.  PanjTry
This  storage  area  for  food  and spices  is  as  thoroughly  devastated and  uninteresting  as  the  kitchen.
15.  TrzApdoorz
In  the  middle  of  the  floor  is  a  5  foot- square  trapdoor  with  a  rusted  iron ring  in  the  center.  If  any  PC  lifts  the ring,  the  door  opens  easily;  a  strong aroma  of  oranges  wafts  from  below. Springs  attached  to  either  side  of  the door  from  below  automatically  close the  door  if  no  one  holds  or  props  it open.  Minor  magic  has  kept  the  trap¬ door  functional  over  the  decades.
The  trapdoor  leads  to  a  granite stairway.  If  the  PCs  take  the  stairs, proceed  to  the  Basement  section,  be¬ low.
14.  STa)r<ju>ay
This  stairway  leads  up.  If  the  PCs take  the  stairs,  continue  with  the Level  2  section.
LEVEL  2
This  level  contains  the  laboratory where  Wolover  conducted  much  of  his research.  As  soon  as  the  party  enters this  level,  they  hear  a  faint  buzzing sound  coming  from  above.  The  buzz¬ ing  persists  as  long  as  the  party  re¬ mains  on  this  level.  (An  immense swarm  of  wasps  is  the  source  of  the buzzing.  See  the  Level  4  section).  The PCs  no  longer  hear  scratching;  the squirrels  in  area  3  have  stopped  mov¬ ing.
1.  STa)r<jl>ay
These  stairs  lead  down  to  Level  1. At  the  top  of  the  stairs  is  a  dark  stain, resulting  from  streams  of  liquid  seep¬ ing  from  the  doorway  above.  Close examination  reveals  the  liquid  to  be
17
dried  blood.  (The  source  of  the  blood is  the  body  in  area  2.)
H.  Wash  Room
Against  the  north  wall  stands  a wooden  table  containing  a  rusty metal  wash  basin,  an  empty  glass pitcher,  and  a  few  soiled  cotton  rags. Sprawled  on  the  floor  is  the  corpse  of a  man  lying  in  a  pool  of  dried  blood, which  has  seeped  through  the  east door  and  trickled  down  the  stairs. The  corpse  is  torn  and  shredded,  as  if attacked  by  a  large  animal.  If  the  PCs listen  near  the  west  door,  they  hear nothing.
The  corpse  is  a  man,  about  40,  with long  blonde  hair.  He  still  clutches  a shield  bearing  the  emblem  of  a  purple dragon.  This  is  Cord  Shoddar,  the missing  aide  of  Balko  Verdemeer, whom  the  PCs  learned  about  in  the Prologue.  When  the  squirrel  in  area  3 attacked  him,  he  tried  to  flee,  but dropped  before  he  could  get  to  the stairway.  The  squirrels  lost  interest  in
him  and  didn't  pursue.
On  the  body  are  a  short  sword,  a dagger  +1,  and  a  bag  containing  21 gp,  40  sp,  and  a  turquoise  chunk worth  30  gp.
5.  LaboRaToRY
This  large  room  is  where  Wolover performed  many  of  his  experiments. Clinging  to  the  east  wall,  almost  near the  ceiling,  is  a  gray  squirrel,  nearly 101  long.  (A  second  squirrel  lurks  in room  8.)
These  were  once  normal  squirrels that  came  through  the  west  window in  search  of  food.  The  creatures  made a  nest  in  room  8.  After  they  nibbled on  the  contaminated  bones  in  the  dis¬ section  room  (see  area  4),  the  magical chemicals  retained  in  the  bones caused  the  squirrels  to  grow.  They eventually  swelled  to  their  current size,  becoming  extremely  vicious  in the  process.
Modified  gray  squirrels  (2):  Int
animal;  AL  CN;  AC  6;  MV  15;  HD 7  +2;  hp  51  each;  THACO  13;  #AT 3;  Dmg  2d4/2d8/2d6;  SA  +  1  attack bonus  due  to  extreme  viciousness; SZ  L;  ML  12;  XP  650.
As  soon  as  a  PC  enters  this  room (whether  by  door  or  window),  the squirrel  on  the  wall  drops  and  at¬ tacks,  slashing  and  snapping  at  ran¬ dom  PCs.  Two  rounds  later,  the squirrel  from  room  8  joins  its  com¬ panion  the  attack.  The  squirrels  fight to  the  death,  pursuing  the  party  any¬ where  in  the  keep.
The  laboratory  floor  is  littered  with smashed  flasks,  bottles,  and  tubes.  All the  glass  is  dark  green;  the  opaque glass  prevented  chemicals  from  be¬ coming  inert  as  a  result  of  exposure to  light.  Various  colored  powders, herbs,  and  salts  surround  toppled metal  shelves  near  the  west  wall.  Two large  marble  tables  are  discolored with  light  stains  that  smell  vaguely  of vinegar,  sulfur,  and  charcoal.  Three
18
f
'J - "gc
~r
Chapters  li  SqairtreeJs  an ft  Wasps
^5:
m   X
r
jC33C
Ij
iron  rods  rise  from  the  floor  in  the southwest  corner  and  extend  to  the ceiling.  These  rods  extend  from  the furnace  on  Level  1;  the  heating  rods are  no  longer  functional.
There  is  nothing  of  interest  here.
4-  Dissection  Room
Here  Wolover  dissected  experimen¬ tal  animals.  The  room  contains  a metal  table  splattered  with  dark stains  (an  Intelligence  check  identifies them  as  blood  stains);  a  shelf  contain¬ ing  a  few  metal  probes  and  clamps  (an Intelligence  check  identifies  them  as dissection  tools;  anything  usable  as  a weapon  is  long  gone);  and  a  toppled metal  barrel,  its  contents  spilled  on the  floor.
In  the  barrel  are  bloodstained  rags, broken  probes,  and  a  few  gnawed bones.  An  Intelligence  check  identi¬ fies  these  as  chicken  and  frog  bones. However,  the  bones  are  several  times the  size  of  normal  bones.
These  are  bones  from  experimental animals  that  Wolover  treated  to  grow larger  than  normal.  The  bones  retain traces  of  chemical  residue,  but  not enough  to  affect  the  PCs;  chewing  on these  bones  caused  the  transforma¬ tion  of  the  squirrels  in  area  3.
5.  PiksX  A Id  Room
Used  to  store  Wolover' s  first  aid supplies  and  other  materials,  this room  is  a  jumble  of  debris:  broken  ta¬ bles,  shattered  green  glass,  and shredded  cotton  toweling.  A  marble table  like  the  one  in  area  3  stands against  the  east  wall.
The  debris  includes  blunt  scissors, medicine  droppers,  chunks  of  soap, and  small  burlap  bags.  One  bag,  la¬ beled  2C/XA,  contains  four  small  yel¬ low  pellets  that  smell  like  fresh  oats.
This  is  an  antidote  for  the  S3/A  lilac poison,  described  in  area  6.  A  pellet consumed  within  five  rounds  after exposure  to  S3/A  poison— presuming the  victim  is  still  alive  —  negates  all  ef¬ fects  of  the  poison,  and  all  hit  points
lost  as  a  result  of  exposure  to  the  poi¬ son  are  immediately  recovered.  Also, eating  a  pellet  immunizes  a  character against  all  effects  from  S3/A  poison for  the  following  ld4  turns.
6.  Stonxge  Room
This  room  was  used  to  store  experi¬ mental  fertilizers  and  insecticides. The  rusted  metal  shelves  now  lie  use¬ less  on  the  floor,  surrounded  by  frag¬ ments  of  broken  jars  and  flasks.  The liquid  contents  of  the  flasks  have  all evaporated,  and  the  solid  contents, which  lie  scattered  about  the  floor, are  now  inert  dust.
A  toppled  metal  barrel  in  the  east corner  contains  a  violet  residue  in  the bottom.  The  residue  has  the  texture of  cotton  and  smells  vaguely  of  vine¬ gar.  The  material  is  derived  from  rain clouds,  which  were  magically  treated to  permanently  solidify.  Wolover  in¬ fused  the  material  with  fertilizers, which  he  believed  would  not  only  fa¬ cilitate  plant  growth,  but  would  also protect  the  plants  from  drought.  The experiment  was  a  failure.  Icelia adapted  this  material  for  a  section  of the  second  level  of  her  stronghold; see  Chapter  3.
Many  glass  fragments  still  bear  la¬ bels,  all  seemingly  random  combina¬ tions  of  letters  and  numbers  that Wolover  used  to  identify  the  contests. One  of  the  fragments  bears  the  label S3/A;  it  smells  faintly  of  lilacs.  The PCs  feel  slightly  dizzy  but  otherwise suffer  no  ill  effects  from  smelling  the lilac  fragment.
(The  S3/A  designation  stands  for  a powerful  poison;  a  derivative  of  the  li¬ lac  poison  that  caused  the  pollution  of Lilac  Lake  — see  area  11  of  the  Veil- stone  Peaks  Map.  The  2C/XA  pellets  in room  5  act  as  an  antidote  for  this  poi¬ son.)
7.  STaIkuoay
This  stairway  leads  up  to  Level  3.
8.  NesT  Room
Another  former  storage  room,  this area  was  demolished  by  the  two  giant squirrels  (see  area  3),  who  have  been using  it  as  a  lair.  Amid  the  broken green  glass  and  twisted  metal  shelv¬ ing  is  a  pile  of  rags  and  debris,  the squirrels'  nest.  The  nest  contains  14 cp,  9  sp,  5  gp,  and  a  ring  of  warmth, brought  here  from  the  outside  world by  the  squirrels.
LEVEL  5
On  this  level  Wolover  conducted many  experiments  in  horticulture.  As soon  as  the  PCs  enter  this  level,  they notice  that  the  buzzing  sound  coming from  above  is  much  louder.  The  buzz¬ ing  persists  as  long  as  the  party  re¬ mains  on  this  level.  (An  immense swarm  of  wasps  is  the  source  of  the buzzing.  See  the  Level  4  section.)
1.  STaiizuoay
These  stairs  lead  down  to  Level  2. The  stairs  leading  to  Level  4  are  im¬ passable,  blocked  with  mbble  and  de¬ bris.
2.  Lab oraTory
Several  long  tables  stretch  across the  room,  filled  with  rows  of  clay flowerpots.  The  pots  contain  only black  earth;  some  of  the  pots  smell faintly  of  lilac,  sulphur,  and  cinnamon (results  of  experimental  pesticide  and fertilizer  treatments).  A  huge  metal box  of  earth  stands  near  the  south¬ east  corner.  A  collection  of  larger  pots is  located  near  three  iron  rods  rising from  the  floor  in  the  southwest  cor¬ ner.  The  pots  were  used  to  grow  small trees,  but  now  contain  only  black earth;  the  rods  extend  from  the  fur¬ nace  on  Level  1  and  are  no  longer functional.
Against  the  north  wall  is  a  101  diam¬ eter  glass  lens,  about  2'  thick.  A  wide crack  extends  the  length  of  the  lens. The  lens  was  once  enchanted  to  pro-
19
duce  artificial  sunlight  to  nourish  the plants.  It  no  longer  functions.
There  are  three  4'  X  6'  cabinets near  the  west  wall  (2a,  2b,  and  2c), each  made  of  rusted  iron.  All  are  en¬ chanted  with  wizard  lock.  If  wizard lock  is  negated,  a  cabinets  opens  eas¬ ily.  Otherwise,  25  points  of  damage breaks  a  cabinet  open;  assume  the cabinets  are  AC  0.
Cabinet  2a:  This  cabinet  contains a  red  velvet  robe  covered  with  small circles.  Given  to  Wolover  by  his  wife (before  she  died  from  pneumonia),  it has  only  sentimental  value.
Cabinet  2b:  This  contains  several flasks  of  Wolover' s  favorite  raspberry wine.
Cabinet  2c:  The  seams  of  this  cabi¬ net  have  been  sealed  with  wax  to make  it  airtight.  The  sides  of  the  cabi¬ net  are  icy  cold.
The  cabinet  contains  a  sentient brown  mold  that  Wolover  acciden¬ tally  created,  a  hybrid  of  various chemically  treated  fungi.  Wolover magically  drained  the  air  from  this cabinet  and  sealed  the  mold  inside until  he  could  figure  out  what  do  it with  it.  The  inert  mold  has  been  here ever  since.
If  the  cabinet  is  opened,  the  fresh air  invigorates  the  mold,  and  it  slith¬ ers  out,  seeking  warm-blooded  vic¬ tims.
Animated  brown  mold:  Int  ani¬ mal;  AL  N;  AC  9;  MV  6;  HD  not  ap¬ plicable;  THACO  17;  #AT  not applicable;  Dmg  see  below;  SA  ab¬ sorbs  heat;  SD  killed  by  direct  sun¬ light,  ultraviolet  light,  cone  of  cold cold  wand,  and  disintegrate  (only other  spells  that  affect  it  are  plant- affecting  magic  and  cold  spells;  ice storm  and  wall  of  ice  cause  it  to  go dormant  for  5d6  turns);  ring  of warmth  causes  complete  protec¬ tion  against  its  attacks;  SZ  M;  ML not  applicable;  XP  420.
The  mold  resembles  a  patch  of wooly  brown  carpet  about  5'  long,  3'
wide,  and  about  an  inch  thick.  Tend¬ rils  on  its  underside  let  it  scurry  along the  floor.  It  can  squeeze  through small  openings,  such  as  the  space  be¬ neath  a  door.  It  pursues  the  PCs  re¬ lentlessly,  attacking  until  destroyed. The  mold  drains  4d8  damage  per round  from  all  warm-blooded  victims within  5';  it  has  greater  speed  and  a better  chance  of  attacking  victims than  normal  brown  mold.  Unlike  nor¬ mal  brown  mold,  torches,  fireballs, and  similar  sources  of  fire  do  not cause  it  to  grow  in  size.
5.  Barvzel  Room
This  room  contains  several  large iron  barrels.  About  half  of  them  are filled  with  old  dirt,  the  others  with dried  manure  (used  as  a  natural  fertil¬ izer).  There  is  nothing  of  interest here.
4.  STotzdge  Room
Used  to  store  lab  equipment,  this room  is  now  a  jumble  of  broken shelves,  shattered  green  glass,  and  a few  assorted  gardening  tools,  includ¬ ing  trowels,  hoes,  and  spades,  none  of them  suitable  as  weapons.  There  is nothing  of  interest  here.
5.  STa)r<jimy
These  stairs  lead  down  to  Level  2 and  up  to  Level  4.
LEVEL  4
On  this  level  Wolover  bred  his  ex¬ perimental  insects  and  other  re¬ search  animals.  The  wasps  (in  area  2) were  supposed  to  feed  on  insects  that ate  agricultural  crops,  but  Wolover never  succeeded  in  this  goal.  How¬ ever,  his  efforts  to  increase  their  rates of  reproduction  were  a  resounding success:  Centuries  after  Wolover's disappearance,  the  wasps  continue  to thrive  and  multiply  and  have  now taken  over  this  entire  level.
1.  STa)rumy
These  stairs  lead  up  from  Level  3. As  the  party  climbs  the  stairs  from Level  3,  the  sound  of  buzzing  grows ever  louder.
The  stairway  ends  at  a  closed  door. If  the  PCs  carefully  open  the  door  a crack,  they  can  peek  inside  without angering  the  wasps  inside  (see  area 2).
2.  Wasp  Room
Hundreds  of  thousands  of  red wasps  fill  this  room,  covering  every square  foot  of  the  floor  and  walls,  and swarming  in  thick  clouds  near  the ceiling.  Clusters  of  cellulose  nests crowd  the  corners  of  the  room,  re¬ sembling  broad  towers  of  pear- shaped  honeycombs  made  of innumerable  tiny  cells.  Characters must  shout  to  be  heard  over  the  roar of  the  buzzing.
Three  iron  rods  covered  with crawling  wasps  rise  from  the  floor  in the  southwest  corner  and  extend  to the  ceiling.  These  rods  extend  from the  furnace  on  Level  1;  the  heating rods  are  no  longer  functional.  Near the  west  wall  about  3'  from  the  floor is  a  metal  cabinet  (similar  to  the  metal cabinets  in  Level  3).  The  cabinet  is also  crawling  with  wasps.
If  the  PCs  don't  enter  the  room, there  is  no  danger.  However,  if  the PCs  wish  to  explore  the  room,  they have  to  deal  with  the  wasps.
The  wasps  are  about  two  inches long,  with  powerful  jaws  and  needle¬ like  stingers.  They  are  more  vicious and  somewhat  hardier  than  normal wasps.
Combat  Notes:  The  wasps  attack only  when  angered.  Any  violent  dis¬ turbance  angers  them,  such  as  an  in¬ truder  stomping  his  way  through  the room,  or  an  attack  such  as  a  hurled stone  or  a  fireball  spell.
The  wasps  attack  as  a  swarm.  They attack  every  character  in  the  room, biting  and  stinging  every  section  of exposed  skin,  even  working  their  way
20
F
T
3 — X
3C
Chapter*  I:  SqajRRels  and  Wasps
X
A.
X-
r. jl
inside  openings  in  clothing.  Victims  of the  wasp  swarm  are  attacked  auto¬ matically,  suffering  3d6  damage  each round.  Also,  victims  are  so  disori¬ ented  that  they  suffer  a  -2  attack penalty  and  have  movement  rates  re¬ duced  by  2/3.
The  angry  swarm  pursues  victims down  the  stairway  (area  1)  and  any¬ where  in  the  keep,  if  the  victims  are foolish  enough  to  leave  the  door open.  If  the  door  is  closed  (this  takes one  round),  a  few  angry  wasps  may slip  through,  but  not  enough  to  do any  significant  damage.
A  swarm  remains  angry  for  half  an hour  after  the  disturbance  ends  or  af¬ ter  all  victims  have  been  killed  or leave  the  area  — for  instance,  if  the PCs  trap  the  wasps  in  this  room,  with¬ draw  down  stairway  1,  and  close  the door  behind  them.  When  the  half hour  has  passed,  the  wasps  calm down  and  do  not  attack  until  dis¬ turbed  again.
Because  of  the  staggering  number of  wasps,  damage  inflicted  on  the swarm  does  not  significantly  affect  its ability  to  attack.  At  your  discretion, exceptionally  formidable  assaults against  the  swarm  — such  as  a  succes¬ sion  of  cloudkill  spells  — may  reduce their  numbers  so  much  that  each swarm  inflicts  ld6  or  even  ld2  dam¬ age.
The  PCs  can  minimize  or  avoid wasp  attacks  by  the  following  meth¬ ods:
•  Smoke  or  fire  scatters  the  wasps, but  doesn't  completely  deter  them. If  the  party  fills  the  room  with thick  smoke,  or  if  a  PC  carries  a torch  and  waves  it  around,  the  an¬ gry  swarm  inflicts  only  ld6  dam¬ age  per  round.  Note  that  filling  the room  with  smoke  or  waving  a torch  angers  the  wasps,  causing them  to  attack.
•  A  PC  who  wears  protective  cloth¬ ing  that  completely  covers  the body  suffers  only  ld6  damage  per round  from  the  angry  swarm  (the
wasps  can  enter  the  smallest  open¬ ings  in  the  clothing).  Only  a  totally airtight  covering  provides  com¬ plete  protection.
•  Spells  such  as  repel  insects  offer protection.
•  A  PC  who  enters  the  room  care¬ fully  and  slowly  can  avoid  angering the  wasps,  even  though  each  step may  crunch  dozens  of  wasps.  For every  five  rounds  in  the  room,  the PC  must  make  a  Dexterity  check.  If a  check  fails,  the  character  stum¬ bles  and  angers  the  wasps,  and they  attack.  Because  of  the  clouds of  wasps  in  the  air,  airborne  char¬ acters  must  also  make  Dexterity checks  to  avoid  angering  the swarm.
•  A  PC  can  paralyze  the  entire swarm  by  using  the  rod  of  immo¬ bile  insects  (see  below  and  the  ap¬ pendix  on  page  62).
Exploring  the  area:  The  two
rooms  on  the  east  side  of  this  level  (2a and  2b)  used  to  hold  spare  cages  and other  supplies,  but  now  contain  only wasp  nests,  scraps  of  rotten  wood, and  small  tangles  of  wire.
The  room  on  the  south  side  (2c)  was used  to  breed  other  experimental creatures.  Among  the  shards  of  bro¬ ken  fish  tanks  and  scraps  of  shattered cages,  the  PCs  find  small  bones  and tiny  husks.  An  Intelligence  check identifies  the  remains  as  those  of  fish, leeches,  butterflies,  and  worms.
Aside  from  the  wasp  nests,  the  only other  objects  in  the  main  part  of  room 2  are  dilapidated  wire  cages  along  the north  and  south  walls  (originally  used to  house  the  wasps)  and  a  metal  cabi¬ net  secured  on  the  west  wall  about  3' from  the  floor.  The  6'  X  4'  cabinet  is made  of  rusty  iron.  It  is  also  protected by  a  firetrap  spell.  Unless  the  firetrap is  removed  or  negated,  it  explodes  as soon  as  the  cabinet  is  touched  (the wasps  can't  trigger  the  firetrap).  All those  within  5'  of  the  cabinet  suffer ld4  +20  damage  (save  vs.  spells  for half  damage).  The  wasps  suffer  insig¬
nificant  damage,  but  the  explosions anger  them,  and  the  swarm  immedi¬ ately  attacks.
The  cabinet  opens  easily.  Inside  are a  bag  of  a  dozen  2C/XA  pellets  (see area  5,  Level  2  for  details),  a  flask  of raspberry  wine,  and  a  2'  long  rod made  of  gold  with  a  white  pearl  on the  end.
The  rod  is  a  rod  of  immobile insects,  which  the  party  may  have learned  about  in  the  study  (area  6, Level  1).  The  rod  has  13  charges.  (See the  "New  Magical  Item"  appendix  for details  about  the  rod.)
3.  STaircuay
This  stairway  originally  led  to  the upper  levels  of  the  tower  but  is  now  a heap  of  collapsed  planks  and  saw¬ dust.  The  upper  levels  are  inaccessi¬ ble  and  contain  only  rubble  and debris.
BASEMENT
As  the  PCs  descend  the  stairs  into the  basement,  the  odor  of  oranges  be¬ comes  more  intense.  Shattered  bar¬ rels,  empty  crates,  and  toppled shelves  lie  against  the  walls;  Wolover once  used  this  whole  area  for  storage. Icelia  had  other  ideas.
Nearly  the  entire  floor  of  the  base¬ ment  is  filled  with  a  circular  pool  of orange  mist.  Any  PC  who  touches  the mist  pool  instantly  loses  conscious¬ ness  and  disappears  (no  saving throw).  PCs  entering  this  gate  con¬ tinue  the  adventure  in  Chapter  2.
21
f
.  CbapteR  2;  Goldp'sb  and  TciRties  ~~\
DM5  OVERVIEW
This  chapter  details  the  first  level  of Icelia's  stronghold.  Consult  the Stronghold  Level  1  map  on  the  color mapsheet.
Goals
In  this  chapter,  the  PCs  should  learn the  fate  of  (most  of)  the  Sons  of  the Stone,  and  they  find  the  mist  pool  at the  bottom  of  the  lake  that  leads  to Level  2  of  the  stronghold.
Physical.  FeaTurc.es
The  encounters  of  this  chapter  take place  in  an  immense  cavern  of  jagged black  granite  filled  with  a  deep  lake. The  temperature  is  about  65  degrees Fahrenheit.  The  humid  air  smells  like a  mixture  of  alcohol  and  sea  water. Patches  of  fluorescent  fungi  cover  the walls,  illuminating  the  cavern  in  soft green  light.
ARRIVAL
Read  the  following  after  the  PCs have  disappeared  into  the  orange mist  in  the  Basement  section  of  Chap¬ ter  1.
The  smells  of  sea  water  and  alco¬ hol  fill  your  nostrils  as  you  gradu¬ ally  regain  consciousness.  You  are sprawled  on  your  backs  at  one  end of  a  narrow  granite  bridge  span¬ ning  an  immense  cavern.  The  ceil¬ ing  is  about  20  feet  overhead. There  are  glowing  patches  of green  fungus  on  the  cave  walls.
When  your  eyes  adjust  to  the light,  you  see  a  golden  door  at  the opposite  end  of  the  bridge,  stud¬ ded  with  what  look  like  black gems.
You  hear  splashing  water  be¬ neath  the  bridge.  When  you  look over  the  edge,  you  see  the  surface of  a  lake  200  feet  below.  Hundreds,
maybe  thousands,  of  human  skele¬ tons  are  floating  in  the  water.  You see  flecks  of  gold  among  the  bones.
Suddenly  the  ghostly  image  of  a giant  bat  swoops  from  beneath  the bridge,  hovers  briefly  in  front  of you,  then  silently  flies  away.
The  party  has  regained  conscious¬ ness  at  the  left  side  of  the  granite bridge  (see  map).  All  their  equipment is  still  with  them.  They  have  been  un¬ conscious  for  only  a  few  minutes  (a side  effect  of  the  teleport).
What  happens  next  depends  on  the party's  actions:
•  If  the  PCs  try  to  cross  the  bridge, see  area  1  below.
•  If  the  PCs  try  to  climb  the  walls,  see area  3.
•  Any  PC  who  tries  to  explore  the  ca¬ vern  by  flying  or  otherwise  moving in  the  air  is  attacked  by  the  three ghost  bats  that  constantly  circle the  cavern.
22
-L
3C
Chapter  2:  GcJdpsh  arid  TuRtles
:i.. 
Ghost  bats  (3):  Int  low;  AL  NE;  AC  1; MV  FI  24  (B);  HD  10;  hp  65  each; THACO  11;  #AT  1;  Dmg  3d8  (bite); SA  piercing  screech  causes  such pain  that  victims  who  fail  to  save vs.  paralysis  seek  to  cover  their ears  rather  than  fight  (screech  is effective  to  a  30'  radius  around  the bat);  SD  can  only  be  struck  by  +  1 or  better  weapons;  immune  to charm,  sleep,  cold,  electricity,  and death  spells;  SZ  G;  ML  14;  XP  3,000.
The  ghost  bats  resemble  translu¬ cent  mobats;  they  have  30'  wingspans and  black,  empty  eyes.  They  attack with  their  paralyzing  screech,  then with  their  huge  fangs.  They  cannot be  turned  by  clerics.
The  ghosts  bats  always  remain  air¬ borne,  and  don't  attack  PCs  who  are on  the  bridge,  climbing  the  walls,  or in  the  lake.  The  ghost  bats  fight  until destroyed,  or  until  all  airborne  PCs return  to  the  bridge,  enter  the  lake, or  cling  to  a  wall;  a  PC  who  leaves  the safety  of  such  an  area  is  attacked again.  Otherwise,  the  ghost  bats  re¬ main  a  safe  distance  from  the  party.
•  A  PC  who  jumps  off  the  bridge  suf¬ fers  12d6  damage  from  the  fall. The  surface  of  the  lake  is  thick with  bones;  striking  the  bones  ac¬ counts  for  most  of  the  damage.  Al¬ ternately,  a  PC  could  secure  a  rope to  the  bridge  and  rappel  down  to the  lake;  there  are  enough  jagged edges  on  the  bridge  to  secure  a rope.  If  the  rope  doesn't  quite reach  the  surface  and  the  PC  has  to fall  the  rest  of  the  way,  the  PC  suf¬ fers  ld6  damage  for  each  10'  fallen (maximum  12d6).  Once  a  PC  enters the  lake,  see  area  4,  below.
ENCOUNTER KEY-LEVEL  1
1.  Bridge
The  240'-long  bridge  is  made  of  12 granite  slabs  joined  end  to  end;  each is  201  X  10'  X  10'.  Above  each  slab  is  a
granite  piston  that  extends  200'  into the  ceiling.  The  bottom  of  each  pis¬ ton,  which  is  set  flush  with  the  ceil¬ ing,  is  about  the  same  length  and width  as  the  slab  below  it  (20'  x  10'). The  slab  bridge  and  the  pistons  are permanently  enchanted  with  wall  of force.
As  soon  as  any  PC  sets  foot  on  the Activation  Slab  (see  map),  the  party hears  groaning  and  grinding  coming from  the  ceiling  above.  One  round later,  the  pistons  become  active.  The piston  system  remains  active  until  all PCs  are  either  dead  or  teleported from  the  cavern  via  the  orange  mist (4P)-
Active  pistons  shoot  from  the  ceil¬ ing  and  slam  the  corresponding  slabs below.  A  piston  shoots  from  the  ceil¬ ing,  slams  the  slab  below,  then  with¬ draws  back  into  the  ceiling,  all  within the  space  of  a  few  seconds.  Charac¬ ters  slammed  by  a  piston  suffer  6d6 damage;  items  must  save  vs.  crushing blow.  The  slabs  suffer  no  damage from  the  pistons.
Some,  but  not  all,  of  the  pistons slam  in  every  round.  As  shown  on  the map,  the  pistons  are  labeled  P1-P8.  To determine  which  pistons  slam  in  the current  round,  roll  ld8;  all  pistons with  that  number  or  less  slam  on  that round.  For  instance,  if  3  is  rolled, then  pistons  PI,  P2,  and  P3  slam.
Note  that  four  slabs  are  designated as  Safe.  The  pistons  corresponding  to these  slabs  are  broken;  therefore, PCs  in  these  areas  are  never  struck  by pistons.  Also  note  that  the  Arrival Area  is  not  safe,  as  it  corresponds  to the  P5  piston;  PCs  who  linger  here  af¬ ter  the  pistons  are  activated  risk  get¬ ting  squashed.
After  the  pistons  are  activated,  run the  encounter  as  follows:
1.  At  the  beginning  of  each  round, ask  the  players  how  far  each  PC wants  to  go,  and  note  their  positions. (For  ease  of  play,  use  graph  paper  or  a sketch  map  to  keep  track  of  PC  posi¬ tions.)
2.  Roll  ld8;  the  pistons  slam.
3.  Any  PC  beneath  a  slamming  pis¬ ton  gets  to  make  a  Dexterity  check.  If the  check  fails,  the  slow -moving  char¬
acter  is  slammed  for  6d6  damage.  If the  check  succeeds,  the  character must  immediately  take  one  of  the  fol¬ lowing  actions:
•  Stay  put  (and  be  slammed  by  the piston).
•  Dive  into  either  of  the  adjacent slabs.  Because  the  pistons  slam  so fast,  the  PC  can't  tell  if  a  piston  is slamming  into  an  adjacent  slab, and  must  take  a  chance.  (For  in¬ stance,  assume  a  die  roll  of  3.  A  PC on  the  P2  slab  who  dives  onto  the P4  slab  is  not  slammed,  but  a  PC who  dives  onto  the  P3  slab  is.)
•  Jump  off  the  bridge,  taking  12d6 damage  from  the  fall.  Flying  PCs,  of course,  don't  suffer  this  damage; but  if  still  airborne  in  the  next round,  they  are  attacked  by  the ghost  bats.
•  Try  to  grab  the  edge  of  the  slab  and hang  over  the  side.  This  requires another  Dexterity  check;  failure means  the  PC  falls  into  the  lake (12d6  damage).  Because  the  piston is  slightly  smaller  than  the  slab,  a PC  hanging  on  the  side  takes  no damage  from  a  slamming  piston.  In the  round  after  the  piston  has slammed,  the  character  may  climb back  onto  the  slab  with  a  success¬ ful  Strength  check;  failure  means  a fall  into  the  lake  (12d6  damage).  Al¬ ternately,  the  PC  can  try  to  swing hand  over  hand  along  the  edges  of the  bridge  to  a  Safe  slab.  Moving hand  over  hand  requires  a Strength  check  per  20'  traveled; failure  means  a  fall  into  the  lake.
Repeat  this  sequence  until  the  PCs have  all  died,  made  their  way  to  the most  eastern  Safe  slab,  or  fallen  in  the lake.
2.  GoLbeto  Door
This  10'  x  10'  door  is  identical  to the  door  previously  seen  in  the  Cho¬ sen  PC's  vision  (Chapter  1,  encounter 15),  except  that  this  door  has  no  key¬ holes.  The  door  is  made  of  black  iron, coated  with  a  thin  layer  of  fool's  gold that  can  easily  be  scraped  away.  A
23
close  examination  reveals  the  gems  to be  made  of  glass.
There  are  two  fool's  gold  handles, one  on  each  side  of  the  door;  only  the left  one  is  functional.  A  PC  who  grabs the  right  handle  suffers  6d6  electrical damage  (save  vs.  spells  for  half  dam¬ age).  The  left  handle  opens  the  door  if the  PC  succeeds  in  a  Strength  check; two  PCs  working  together  can  open the  door  automatically.
The  door  is  a  fake;  behind  it  is  noth¬ ing  but  solid  black  granite.  Two  things occur  immediately  when  the  door  is opened:
A.  A  cacophony  of  agonized  shrieks fills  the  chamber,  representing  all those  who  have  died  here  before.  The sounds  persist  for  five  rounds.  The PCs  experience  no  ill  effects  from  the sounds  —  physically;  however,  their fear  goes  to  feed  the  lichlings  else¬ where  in  the  stronghold.
B.  The  entire  bridge  flips  upside down.  Those  on  the  bridge  may  make a  Dexterity  check  to  grab  the  edge  of the  bridge.  Success  means  the  PC  is dangling  from  the  bridge  (with  the options  described  above);  a  failed check  means  the  PC  plummets  into the  lake  to  suffer  12d6  damage.
The  slamming  pistons  continue  as before.  One  round  after  the  bridge flips,  the  door  slams  shut.  One  round after  that,  the  bridge  flips  back  over to  its  original  position  (same  game  ef¬ fects  as  above).
5.  Walls
The  jagged  walls  have  plenty  of handholds,  making  climbing  rela¬ tively  easy.  If  a  PC  tries  to  climb  down a  wall,  use  the  rules  in  the  "Climbing" section  of  Chapter  14  in  the  Player's Handbook.
Alternately,  have  the  PC  make  a Dexterity  check  (with  a  -2  bonus  if the  PC  is  a  thief  and  a  - 1  bonus  if  the PC  has  the  Mountaineering  profi¬ ciency).  Make  only  one  check  if  the PC  is  climbing  down  to  the  lake;  make three  checks  if  the  PC  tries  to  climb all  the  way  around  the  cavern  to reach  the  door.  If  a  check  fails,  the  PC falls  to  the  lake  and  suffers  12d6  dam¬
age;  decrease  or  increase  damage  de¬ pending  on  how  close  the  PC  was  to the  lake  when  the  check  failed.
4.  Lake
The  surface  of  the  lake  is  roughly circular,  about  150'  in  diameter.  The lake  smells  like  a  mixture  of  alcohol and  sea  water.  After  clearing  away the  bones,  PCs  on  the  surface  of  the lake  can  stare  down  through  schools of  goldfish  (4b)  and  a  tangle  of  sea¬ weed  (4g)  to  see  a  pool  of  orange  mist at  the  bottom  (4p);  the  mist  pool  ap¬ pears  to  be  similar  to  the  one  encoun¬ tered  in  the  basement  of  Wolover's Keep.
The  enchanted  water  has  several magical  properties:  (1)  it  never  evapo¬ rates;  (2)  it  is  breathable  both  by water-breathers  and  air-breathers; and  (3)  it  is  quite  buoyant  —  even  ar¬ mored  PCs  can  float  in  it.
For  convenience,  assume  that  nor¬ mal  characters  can  swim  underwater at  half  their  normal  movement  rate, and  proficient  swimmers  can  swim  at their  normal  movement  rate;  de¬ crease  these  swimming  rates  for heavily  encumbered  PCs.  In  all  other respects,  the  lake  water  is  similar  to normal  water.  Refer  to  the  Special Underwater  Rules  in  the  Introduc¬ tion  for  combat  penalties.
4a.  Surface:  Thousands  of  skele¬ tons  bob  on  the  surface  of  the  lake; these  are  the  remains  of  explorers and  treasure  hunters  from  ages  past who  never  got  though  this  level  of  the stronghold.  The  magical  water  helps preserve  the  bones.  There  are  no weapons  or  treasure  on  the  corpses, only  pieces  of  rusted  and  useless  ar¬ mor.  All  valuables  have  been  transfer¬ red  to  the  treasure  room  in  Chapter 3.
If  the  PCs  spend  15  minutes  exam¬ ine  the  bobbing  corpses,  they  find one  wearing  a  silver-colored  breast¬ plate  with  an  onyx  imbedded  in  the center;  this  is  one  of  the  Sons  of  the Stone,  most  of  whom  were  killed  by the  pistons  or  falls  from  the  bridge.  If they  continue  to  search,  the  PCs  find more  Sons  corpses.  There  are  92  in
the  lake.
Small  goldfish,  about  4"  long,  dart among  the  corpses,  scattering  at  the approach  of  the  PCs.  These  are  car¬ nivorous  fish  who  nibble  on  the  re¬ mains  of  the  dead.  The  fish  steer  clear of  the  PCs,  as  they  only  feed  on  dead or  helpless  victims.  If  the  PCs  wish  to examine  a  fish,  they're  reasonably easy  to  capture  or  kill.  Individually, the  fish  are  harmless.
4b.  Goldfish  schools:  Several schools  of  goldfish,  each  containing hundreds  of  fish,  swim  in  this  area, dispersing  at  the  approach  of  the  PCs. The  fish  do  not  attack;  if  the  PCs  dis¬ turb  them,  they  swim  through  the  4c passage  and  join  their  companions  in the  hatchery  (4d).
4c.  Passage:  This  is  a  narrow,  eas¬ ily  traversed  passage  leading  to  the goldfish  hatchery  (4d).
4d.  Hatchery:  Countless  thou¬ sands  of  carnivorous  goldfish  swim  in this  alcove.  Millions  of  tiny  black  gold¬ fish  eggs  line  the  bottom.  Unlike  else¬ where  in  the  lake,  the  goldfish aggressively  attack  any  PC  who  en¬ ters  the  hatchery.  The  goldfish  attack as  a  massive  school,  nipping  and  snap¬ ping  with  their  sharp  teeth.  Treat  the swarm  as  a  10  HD  monster  with  AC  6; each  successful  attack  causes  2d6 damage.  If  a  PC  inflicts  50  hit  points  of damage  against  the  school,  it  tempo¬ rarily  withdraws,  only  to  attack  again ld4  rounds  later.  The  goldfish  will not  leave  this  area.
4e.  Passage:  Connecting  areas  4d and  4h,  this  passage  is  similar  to  4c.
4f.  Narrow  passage:  This  pas¬ sage  is  only  about  4'  in  diameter,  and is  lined  with  jagged  rocks.  Any  PC swimming  through  this  passage  must succeed  in  a  Dexterity  check  or  suffer ld6  damage  from  sharp  scrapes.
49.  Seaweed  outcroppings: The  lake  narrows  here  to  a  diameter of  about  50'.  Long  fronds  of  green seaweed  float  lazily  in  this  area.  Two strangleweeds  are  attached  to  both the  east  and  west  outcropping  (for  a total  of  four).  Each  strangleweed  has four  exceptionally  long  fronds  (for  a total  of  16),  which  are  concealed  in the  seaweed.  The  fronds  are  long
24
enough  to  reach  anywhere  in  area  49.
Strangleweed  (4):  Int  animal;  AL  N;
AC  6;  MV  Nil;  HD  4;  hp  30  each;
THACO 17;  #AT  1;  Dmg  see  below;
SA  crushing;  SZ  L;  ML  9;  XP  270.
The  fronds  continually  attack  any PC  in  area  4g  until  he  leaves  the  area or  until  all  fronds  have  been  de¬ stroyed.  A  hit  by  the  strangleweed means  that  the  victim  is  entwined  by a  frond  with  4d4  Strength  points.  A victim  can  try  to  escape  once  per round  if  his  Strength  exceeds  the combined  Strength  of  the  fronds grabbing  him.  If  the  victim  is stronger,  each  point  of  Strength  in  his favor  gives  a  10%  chance  to  escape. For  example,  if  the  PC's  Strength  ex¬ ceeds  the  combined  Strength  of  the fronds  by  3  points,  the  PC  has  a  30% chance  to  escape.
If  the  fronds  are  stronger  than  the victim,  the  victim  can't  escape  alone and  suffers  crushing  damage  every round  equal  to  1  hit  point  per  point  of Strength  difference.  For  example,  if the  fronds'  Strength  exceeds  the  vic¬ tim's  Strength  by  3  points,  the  victim suffers  3  hit  points  of  damage  per round.  Entwined  victims  suffer  an  ad¬ ditional  -2  attack  penalty.
In  ld4  rounds  after  a  victim  is  en¬ twined,  a  school  of  carnivorous  gold¬ fish  arrives;  the  school  attacks  the victim  and  is  dispersed  as  described in  4d  above.  The  fish  do  not  attack PCs  who  are  not  trapped.
4h.  Rocky  area:  Aside  from  the
broad  rock  ledges— which  pose  no problem  for  the  party  —  there  is  noth¬ ing  of  interest  here.
4i.  Opening:  This  opening  leading to  4j  is  only  about  10'  in  diameter.
4j.  Guarded  area:  As  soon  as  a  PC enters  this  area  of  clear  water,  a  mon¬ strous  creature  bolts  from  area  4k and  attacks.  The  creature  resembles a  giant  turtle  with  blazing  red  eyes and  shards  of  flesh  hanging  from  its bony  frame.  Its  shell  is  black  and cracked.
Zombie  dragon  turtle:  Int  low;  AL NE;  AC  0;  MV  3,  Sw  9;  HD  14;  hP 100;  THACO  7;  #AT  3;  Dmg  2d6/ 2d6/4d8;  SA  breath  weapon  (see  be¬ low);  SD  immune  to  sleep,  charm, hold,  death  magic,  poisons,  and cold-based  spells;  cannot  be  turned by  cleric;  SZ  G;  ML  17;  XP  13,000.
The  zombie  dragon  turtle  attacks with  its  teeth  and  claws,  supplement¬ ing  these  assaults  with  its  steam breath  weapon  (60'  x  40'  x  40'  cloud causing  20d6  damage;  save  vs.  breath weapon  for  half  damage;  breath weapon  is  fully  functional  under¬ water).  The  creature  fights  to  the death;  because  of  its  size,  it  can  only pursue  into  areas  4k,  4L,  and  4n  (it's too  big  to  swim  through  the  4i  open¬ ing).  If  the  PCs  elude  the  creature,  it withdraws  into  4k,  attacking  again  if the  PCs  re-enter  area  4j.
4k.  Turtle's  lair:  This  small  ca¬ vern,  serving  as  the  zombie  dragon turtle's  lair,  contains  rocks,  weeds,
and  nothing  of  interest.
4L.  Passage:  Connecting  areas  4j and  4n,  this  passage  is  about  30'  in  di¬ ameter.
4m.  Narrow  passage:  This  nar¬ row  passage  is  similar  to  4f  (same chance  of  damage).
4n.  Turtle's  lair:  This  cavern  is similar  to  area  4k.  A  second  zombie dragon  turtle  lurks  here  (use  area  4j statistics).  This  creature  does  not  at¬ tack  unless  the  party  enters  this  area. However,  once  the  PCs  enter  4k,  it  at¬ tacks  as  described  in  4j.  Because  of  its size,  it  can  only  pursue  into  areas  4j, 4k,  and  4L;  it's  too  big  to  swim through  the  4i  opening.  If  the  PCs elude  the  creature,  it  withdraws  into 4n,  attacking  again  if  the  PCs  enter 4n.
4o.  Crystal  barrier:  A  barrier  of clear  crystal  blocks  access  to  the  or¬ ange  pool  (area  4p);  the  barrier  is  90% undetectable  by  normal  vision.  The crystal  is  enchanted  with  wall  of force.  Unless  the  party  is  able  to breach  this  barrier,  the  only  access  to the  orange  pool  is  passage  4m.
4p.  Orange  pool:  Fingers  of  mist rise  from  this  orange  pool  lining  the bottom  of  the  lake.  Because  of  the  na¬ ture  of  the  enchantment,  the  misty pool  is  not  dispersed  by  the  water. The  pool  resembles  the  one  in  the basement  of  Wolover's  Keep.  Any  PC who  comes  within  3'  of  the  pool  in¬ stantly  loses  consciousness  and  disap- pears  (no  saving  throw)  and continues  the  adventure  in  Chapter  3.
25
DM 5  OVERVIEW
This  chapter  details  the  second level  of  Icelia's  stronghold.  Use  the Stronghold  Level  2  map  on  the  insert color  map  for  reference.
Goals
In  this  chapter,  the  PCs  can  accom¬ plish  the  following:
•  learn  the  fate  of  Xamine  (area  1).
•  meet  Jharold  the  Chosen,  an  arro¬ gant  member  of  the  Sons  of  the Stone,  and  negotiate  for  informa¬ tion  (area  7g).
•  liberate  the  trapped  spirits  of  two deceased  explorers  and  learn  their secrets  (area  20).
•  locate  the  three  keys  necessary  to unlock  the  golden  door  to  the  trea¬ sure  room.  Two  of  the  three  keys are  in  areas  8p  and  31.  To  get  the  vi¬ olet  key  from  area  8p,  the  party must  first  obtain  the  spectre  violins in  area  5  and  the  violet  key  cube  in room  7m.  To  get  the  ivory  key  from area  31,  the  PCs  must  first  recover
the  crystal  eyes  from  area  20  and take  them  to  area  30.  The  third  key is  the  rusted  black  key  in  the  cloak room  of  Wolover's  Keep  (see  Chap¬ ter  1).  The  door  to  the  treasure room  is  in  area  33.
•  learn  the  fates  of  Hakem  and Kharla  (area  33).
•  learn  the  fate  of  Lenzmin  Tier (area  35).
•  gain  access  to  the  third  level  of  the stronghold,  either  by  negotiating with  Kharla  (area  33)  or  entering the  treasure  room  (area  34).
PhysloAl  FeaTmes
Except  where  otherwise  noted,  all passages  and  rooms  are  made  of black  granite,  ceilings  are  about  8' from  the  floors,  and  all  areas  are  com¬ pletely  dark;  the  PCs  must  provide their  own  illumination.  The  tempera¬ ture  is  about  60  degrees  Fahrenheit. The  air  is  musty  and  dry.
Doors:  All  doors  are  6'  x  6'.  There are  two  types  of  doors.
Golden  doors:  One  type,  repre¬
sented  by  the  golden  door  in  area  2  of the  last  chapter,  appears  to  be  made of  gold  but  is  actually  made  of  black iron  coated  with  a  thin  layer  of  fool's gold  (which  is  easily  scraped  away). These  doors  are  studded  with  what appear  to  be  black  diamonds  but  are actually  made  of  glass.
There  are  two  fool's-gold  handles on  each  door,  one  on  each  side;  only the  left  one  is  functional.  A  PC  who grabs  the  right  handle  suffers  6d6 magically-generated  electrical  dam¬ age  (save  vs.  spells  for  half  damage). The  left  handle  opens  the  door  if  a  PC succeeds  in  a  Strength  check;  two  PCs working  together  can  open  the  door automatically.  The  doors  close  auto¬ matically  when  released.  The  oppo¬ site  side  of  a  door  has  no  handles  and can  be  pushed  open  by  one  PC  with  a successful  Strength  check,  or  by  two PCs  working  together.
Mist  doors:  The  second  type  of  door doesn't  look  like  a  door  at  all.  Instead, it  appears  to  be  a  curtain  of  opaque black  mist.
Mist  doors  emit  a  faint  odor  of  mint,
26
X
yXX3L
Chapt&u  3:  Leeches  and  Batteftrjies
n
detectable  from  a  distance  of  5'. Sounds  and  odors  pass  easily  through mist  doors.  Passage  through  the  mist door  is  one  way  only,  indicated  by  the direction  of  the  arrow  (see  map).  A character  who  sticks  a  hand,  head,  or any  other  part  of  the  body  in  the  mist is  instantly  transported  to  the  oppo¬ site  side.  The  opposite  side  of  a  mist door  — that  is,  the  side  opposite  that indicated  by  the  arrow  — acts  as  a  wall of  force  to  prevent  passage.
Lichling  holes:  These  are  8"- diameter  holes  the  lichlings  use  to gain  closer  proximity  to  doomed  in¬ truders  and  feed  directly  on  their fresh  emotions.  The  lichlings  also  pop from  the  holes  to  scavenge  treasure from  dead  intruders.
PCs  able  to  enter  a  hole  (perhaps using  a  potion  of  diminution)  discov¬ er  an  intricate  tunnel  network  that winds  deep  into  the  earth.  Following the  tunnel  system  proves  futile;  the empty  tunnels  twist  and  turn  for dozens  of  miles.  All  tunnels  lead  to the  lichling  incubation  chamber;  see Chapter  4,  area  13.
Lichling  fluid:  The  black  liquid found  in  the  streams  and  pools  in  areas 11, 12,  and  other  locations  in  the  laby¬ rinth  is  lichling  fluid.  Lichling  fluid  is  a thick,  brackish  smelling  substance  that promotes  the  development  of  matur¬ ing  lichlings;  as  far  as  the  PCs  are  con¬ cerned,  the  lichling  fluid  has  no  special properties.  The  lichling  fluid  is  gener¬ ated  in  area  3  of  Chapter  4.
Sensorzy  Phenomena and  Physical Encounterzs
In  this  chapter  and  the  next,  the characters  experience  two  special categories  of  encounters,  called  Sen¬ sory  Phenomena  and  Physical  En¬ counters.  All  Sensory  Phenomena and  Physical  Encounters  are  listed  on this  module's  inside  covers.
When  the  party  enters  an  area marked  with  an  "X"  on  the  map, roll  ld6.  On  a  roll  of  1-2,  roll  for  a Sensory  Phenomenon  (or  choose one).  On  a  roll  of  3,  roll  for  or  choose
a  Physical  Encounter.  No  encounter occurs  on  a  roll  of  4-6.  Feel  free  to modify  or  substitute  encounters  as appropriate  to  the  party's  current  sit¬ uation  and  environment.
Sensory  Phenomena:  As  indi¬ cated  on  the  Sensory  Phenomena  Ta¬ ble,  each  Phenomenon  has  two stages.  Each  Phenomenon  is  experi¬ enced  by  one  randomly  chosen  PC. Different  PCs  may  experience  differ¬ ent  stages  of  a  given  phenomenon.
The  first  time  a  particular  phenome¬ non  occurs,  the  victim  experiences Stage  A;  on  the  second  and  all  subse¬ quent  occurrences,  the  victim  experi¬ ences  Stage  B.  To  help  keep  track  of  the phenomena  stages,  check  the  appropri¬ ate  box  when  a  phenomenon  occurs.
Physical  Encounters:  The  entire party  experiences  these,  and  they  are not  divided  into  stages.  There  is  no  lim¬ it  to  the  number  of  times  a  given  Physi¬ cal  Encounter  can  occur.
Some  of  the  Physical  Encounters  are encounters  with  monsters.  Should  a random  roll  indicate  a  monster  that isn't  appropriate  to  the  current  envi¬ ronment  (for  instance,  if  a  roll  indicates an  air-breathing  monster  and  the  party is  in  an  aquatic  environment),  choose  a different  monster  or  roll  again.  Mon¬ sters  scuttle  from  the  shadows  or  oth¬ er  hiding  place  of  your  choice  and  fight to  the  death.
Spending  The  Night
Since  it's  unlikely  the  party  can  ex¬ plore  the  entire  stronghold  in  a  single day,  they  may  spend  the  night  in  any location  that  seems  safe  to  them.  If the  party  makes  camp  for  the  night, check  twice  for  Sensory  Phenomena and  Physical  Encounters.
If  the  PCs  become  hopelessly  lost  in the  stronghold,  feel  free  to  run  the "Benevolent  Spirit"  Sensory  Phenom¬ enon  at  any  time.
Incentive
If  the  PCs  drag  their  feet,  neglect their  goal,  or  lose  momentum  for  any other  reason,  feel  free  to  run  any  or all  the  following  encounters  as  often
as  necessary:
1.  The  labyrinth  experiences  a  brief series  of  mild  tremors,  implying  that the  labyrinth  is  about  to  collapse.  The walls  may  crack  and  rubble  may  fall from  the  ceiling,  but  the  party  suffers no  damage.
2.  The  image  of  Wolover  appears  be¬ fore  the  party  (as  in  the  "Wolover's Spirit"  encounter  on  the  Sensory  Phe¬ nomena  Table)  and  implores  them  to hurry,  saying  that,  "The  time  of  reck¬ oning  draws  near.  The  spawn  of  Icelia grow  stronger  with  each  passing  hour. You  have  to  stop  them  at  the  source!"
3.  As  the  party  ventures  deeper  in¬ to  the  labyrinth,  increase  the  number of  encounters  with  lichlings  (use  the statistics  on  p.  64)  to  lead  the  PCs  to believe  that  they're  coming  closer  to the  source  of  the  lichlings.
ARRIVAL
Read  the  following  after  the  PCs have  disappeared  into  the  orange mist  at  the  end  of  Chapter  2:
You  wake  up  to  the  odor  of  rotten meat.  You  are  lying  on  your  back in  a  pile  of  sharp  lumps.  A  dim glow  from  the  ceiling  above  shows that  the  lumps  are  dozens  of corpses,  with  blackened  and  twist¬ ed  bones.
The  room  is  about  70'  square, each  wall  containing  three  golden doors  studded  with  black  gems.  A corpse  grasps  the  right  handle  of the  door  in  the  northwest  corner. The  corpse  has  an  eye  patch  over its  left  eye  and  a  silver  medallion around  his  neck.
The  party  has  regained  conscious¬ ness  in  area  1  of  the  Level  2  map.  All their  equipment  is  still  with  them. They  have  only  been  unconscious  for a  few  minutes.  All  PCs  and  their  gear are  completely  dry,  thanks  to  the  en¬ chantment  of  the  orange  mist  that brought  them  here.
Continue  with  area  1  in  the  En¬ counter  key.
27
0Z
rczac
Chapter  3:  Leeches  and  Batte«£Jies
n
JL.
j
ENCOUNTER KEY-LEVEL  SI
1.  ArrHmL  Room
The  room  is  dimly  lighted  by  sev¬ eral  glass  tiles  in  the  ceiling  that  are permanently  enchanted  with  contin¬ ual  tight.  There  are  dozens  of  bodies piled  here,  the  remains  of  intruders who  never  got  past  this  room.  If  the PCs  search  the  piles,  they  find  a  few skeletons  wearing  tarnished  silver chest  plates  imbedded  with  onyx stones;  these  are  more  remains  of  the Sons  of  the  Stone  (there  are  seven Sons  bodies  in  all).  Except  for  the corpse  grasping  the  door  (see  below), there  are  no  weapons,  treasure items,  or  anything  else  of  interest  on these  bodies.  All  items  of  value  have been  transferred  to  the  treasure room,  area  34.
The  corpse  grasping  the  right  han¬ dle  of  door  la  is  Xamine  of  Melcher, whom  the  PCs  may  have  learned about  in  Chapter  1.  Xamine  died when  he  grasped  the  wrong  handle of  door  la.  His  medallion  is  worth  100 gp.  If  the  PCs  search  Xamine' s  ragged clothing,  they  find  the  parchment shown  in  Figure  1.
Before  he  entered  the  keep,  Xamine used  his  great  divining  skills  to  deter¬ mine  that  three  keys  were  needed  to unlock  the  treasure  room.  He  wrote the  types  of  required  keys  on  this piece  of  parchment:  VIOLET,  IVORY, and  OLD.  Two  small  rips  have  de¬ faced  the  parchment.  Though  the  PCs can  probably  deduce  that  the  first word  actually  means  VIOLET,  they may  misinterpret  the  bottom  word  to mean  GOLD,  COLD,  or  some  other word,  when  in  fact,  this  third  word  is intact;  "old"  refers  to  the  black  key found  in  the  cloak  room  of  Wolover's Keep.
All  nine  doors  in  this  room  are  iden¬ tical  in  appearance.  Door  lg  is  slightly ajar.
Doors  lb-lf  and  lj-lL  lead  no¬ where;  there  is  nothing  behind  them but  solid  granite.
Doors  lg-li  conceal  a  series  of  T- diameter  granite  tubes  connected  to an  immense  tank  of  water  (area  2d).  If any  of  these  doors  is  opened,  all  three (lg-li)  disappear,  and  water  begins  to pour  in.  The  water  pours  with  such force  that  the  entire  room  is  com¬ pletely  filled  in  five  rounds.  Once filled,  the  water  remains  until  door  la is  opened  (see  below),  or  one  full  day has  passed,  at  which  time  the  water magically  withdraws  through  the granite  tubes  into  the  tank,  and  doors lg-li  magically  reappear.
The  right  handles  of  all  the  golden doors  in  this  room  cause  6d6  electri¬ cal  damage,  as  described  in  the  Physi¬ cal  Features  section  at  the  beginning of  this  chapter.  If  the  PCs  grasp  the right  handles  of  any  of  the  doors while  water  is  present  in  the  room,  all PCs  within  10'  of  the  door  suffer  6d6 electrical  damage  (save  for  half  dam¬ age).
If  a  PC  opens  door  la,  the  water empties  into  area  2  (Xamine  had  the right  idea,  but  the  wrong  handle).  Un¬ less  they  take  precautions,  such  as hanging  tight  to  one  of  the  phony doors'  left  handles,  the  water  sweeps the  PCs  into  room  2,  along  with  the corpses;  PCs  swept  along  by  the  wa¬ ter  suffer  2d4  damage.
When  the  water  has  all  drained  into room  2,  doors  lg-li  magically  reap¬ pear.
2 L  Dwiih )  awd RecycVmg  System
A  gently  sloping  incline  (2a)  leads  to a  funnel-like  room  with  several  T- diameter  holes  in  the  bottom  (2b).  Wa¬ ter  draining  from  room  1  enters  these holes  and  is  magically  returned  to  a holding  tank  (2d)  via  a  series  of  gran¬ ite  pipes  (2c).  All  corpses  swept  into this  room  from  the  water  in  room  1 disappear  when  they  touch  the  drain, instantly  teleporting  back  to  room  1. Only  corpses  are  affected  in  this  way.
A  stairway  (2e)  leads  up  from  the funnel  to  a  golden  door.
3.  Mosaic  Room
A  dark  corridor  ends  at  a  black  vel¬ vet  curtain,  supported  between  two black  granite  pillars.  Beyond  the  cur¬ tain  is  a  rectangular  room.  Its  floor  is marked  with  three  mosaic  diagrams (3a,  3b,  and  3c)  made  of  tiny  ceramic chips.  As  shown  on  the  map,  each  dia¬ gram  appears  to  show  a  section  of  a corridor,  one  branch  leading  to  a  key. The  diagrams  are  intended  to  trick the  unwary;  if  the  PCs  enter  the  cor¬ responding  arches  and  follow  the corridors  as  diagrammed,  they  are led  into  deadly  traps  instead  of  find¬ ing  the  keys.
28
ZL
’XGZ3C
ChapT&n  5:  Laches  and  Butterflies
1
X
Three  arches  (3d,  3e,  and  3f)  open  in the  north  wall.  Diagram  3a  and  arch 3d  are  made  of  black  marble.  Diagram 3b  and  arch  3e  are  made  of  opaque green  glass.  Diagram  3c  and  arch  3f are  made  of  a  violet  substance  that feels  like  dried  sponge.  All  diagrams and  arches  are  icy  cold  to  the  touch.
Above  the  arches  is  a  message spelled  out  in  a  patchwork  mosaic  of black  marble,  opaque  green  glass, and  a  violet  sponge-like  substance. The  message  reads:  THREE  KEYS FOR  THE  GOLD,  TWO  STRINGS  TO BREAK  THE  CUBE,  ONE  CUBE  TO TRAP  THE  MIST.
(The  first  phrase  means  that  three keys  are  necessary  to  unlock  the golden  door  leading  to  the  treasure chamber.  The  second  phrase  indi¬ cates  that  two  violin  strings  — available  in  room  5  —  are  necessary  to shatter  the  case  enclosing  the  violet cube,  found  in  room  7m.  The  third phrase  means  that  the  violet  cube  is necessary  to  solidify  the  mist  key  in room  8p.  Icelia  created  these  clues  to lure  hardy  adventurers  farther  into the  labyrinth.)
A  PC  who  steps  through  any  of  the arches  hears  a  faint,  echoed  cackle and  feels  the  caress  of  an  icy  wind. The  cackle  and  the  wind  are  gone  in  a moment.
4.  Corvzidoizs  of Sh  AEOLUS
These  areas  have  been  perma¬ nently  enchanted  to  negate  all  forms of  natural  and  magical  light.  While exploring  these  areas,  torches  burn but  generate  no  illumination.  Contin¬ ual  light,  dancing  lights,  and  other light-related  spells  do  not  function, nor  does  infravision.  Spells  such  as magic  missile  that  require  the  caster to  see  a  target  are  useless.  PCs  suffer a  -4  penalty  to  attacks  and  saving throws,  and  their  ACs  are  4  worse than  normal  (minimum  10).
So  powerful  is  the  enchantment  of the  Corridor  of  Shadows  that  not even  a  wish  negates  the  darkness completely;  treat  a  wish  as  a  light
spell,  with  a  duration  of  one  hour  per level  of  the  caster,  when  used  to  ne¬ gate  the  darkness.  (For  more  about adventuring  in  darkness,  see  the "Darkness"  section  of  Chapter  12  in the  Dungeon  Master's  Guide).
The  party  must  feel  along  the  walls to  determine  where  passages  turn and  end.  Provide  vivid  descriptions  of the  various  areas  in  terms  of  sound, smell,  and  touch.  Walls  are  rough  to the  touch.  Golden  doors  have  cool, smooth  surfaces  and  dome-like  pro¬ trusions  (the  fake  diamonds).  Scut¬ tling  insects  crunch  beneath  the party's  feet.  The  air  smells  of  mint near  a  mist  door.
Sensory  Phenomena  occur  normal¬ ly  in  this  area;  phenomena  with  a  vis¬ ual  element  are  perceived  by  the victim  as  described  in  the  Sensory Phenomena  Table,  hovering  in  a  field of  darkness.
As  the  party  explores  area  4,  they hear  faint  sounds  of  eerie,  discordant violin  music  coming  from  the  north. The  music  becomes  louder  as  they move  towards  area  5.
4a.  Slime  trap:  The  odor  of  rotten meat  rises  from  below  as  the  PCs  de¬ scend  this  stairway.  The  13th  and  fi¬ nal  step  is  exceptionally  slippery.  Any PC  stepping  on  the  13th  step  must make  a  Dexterity  check;  those  who succeed  catch  themselves  before they  fall.  Others  fall  into  a  pit  of  slime below  and  immediately  begin  to  sink; the  slime  has  the  consistency  of quicksand.  It  takes  10  rounds  for  a fallen  PC  to  sink  below  the  surface.
The  walls  here  are  too  slick  for  a sinking  PC  to  climb,  but  a  PC  with  a ring  of  water  walking  or  boots  of  levi¬ tation,  or  who  has  access  to  similar items  or  spells,  can  avoid  sinking.
Assume  that  the  distance  from  the twelfth  stair  to  a  sinking  PC  is  6';  a companion  on  this  stair  could  extend a  pole  or  throw  a  rope  to  the  sinking PC.  To  grab  the  pole  or  rope,  a  sink¬ ing  PC  must  make  a  Dexterity  check with  a  +4  penalty  (due  to  the  dark¬ ness).  Note  that  a  PC  attempting  a  res¬ cue  who  steps  on  the  13th  stair  also risks  falling  in  the  slime  pool.  A  PC who  sinks  is  never  seen  again.
4b.  Slanting  passage:  A  network of  filmy  spider  webs  blocks  the  pas¬ sage.  The  webs  can  be  cleared  away easily.  PCs  feel  tiny  spiders  scuttle over  their  flesh;  the  spiders  are harmless.
4c.  Web  sheet:  Like  area  4b,  a  net¬ work  of  spider  webs  blocks  the  pas¬ sage.  However,  this  web  is  actually  a living  web.
Living  web:  Int  semi;  AL  N;  AC  9;  MV 6;  HD  6;  hp  45;  THACO  15;  #AT  2; Dmg  3d4/3d4  (lighting  bolts  at  60' range,  save  vs.  spells  for  half  dam¬ age);  SD  absorb  electrical  energy, permanently  gaining  1  HD  per  8 points  of  energy  absorbed;  blows from  edged  weapons  divide  them  in¬ to  two  webs,  each  with  half  the  orig¬ inal's  remaining  hit  points;  blunt weapons  cause  half  damage;  im¬ mune  to  fire,  water,  heat,  and  cold attacks;  SZ  M;  ML  10;  XP  2,000.
The  living  web  waits  for  a  PC  to touch  it,  causing  the  victim  ld4  elec¬ trical  damage.  The  web  then  ad¬ vances  towards  the  party,  making two  lightning  bolt  attacks  per  round (normal  attack  rolls).  The  web  fights to  the  death  and  pursues  if  necessary, although  it  will  not  enter  area  4d.
4d.  Slimy  passage:  As  the  pas¬ sage  continues  to  descend,  the  walls become  slimy  and  cold,  and  the  air reeks  of  dead  fish.  Farther  north,  the passage  becomes  deeper  with  rancid water,  a  few  inches  at  first,  gradually becoming  waist  deep.
4e.  Rancid  pool:  This  5'-deep pool  of  rancid  water  reeks  of  dead fish.  The  walls  enclosing  it  are  slimy and  cold.  A  PC  in  the  pool  must  suc¬ ceed  in  a  Constitution  check  every five  rounds  or  suffer  ld2  damage from  breathing  the  sickening  air;  all attacks  take  a  -1  penalty  in  this  area due  to  nausea.
A  PC  wading  across  the  pool  feels tiny  fish-like  creatures  brushing against  any  areas  of  bare  skin.  These creatures  are  small  leeches,  less  than half  an  inch  long,  especially  enchant¬ ed  to  survive  indefinitely  in  the  ran¬ cid  water.  The  pool  is  filled  with
29
fs
~L
Chapter*  3:  Leeches  and  Bcittettpifcs
X.
_ *_:
leeches.  A  PC  without  airtight  protec¬ tion  who  spends  five  or  more  rounds in  the  water  has  a  90%  chance  of picking  up  dozens  of  tiny  leeches;  the leeches  are  small  enough  to  work their  way  beneath  folds  of  clothes. When  they  attach  themselves,  the leeches  secrete  an  anesthetizing  sali¬ va  so  they  can't  be  felt;  PCs  aren't likely  to  notice  the  leeches  until  they enter  a  lighted  area.
Assume  a  leech-infested  PC  suffers ld6  damage  per  hour  of  infestation. Leeches  can  easily  be  pulled  off,  but an  infested  PC  must  examine  his  or her  entire  body  to  spot  them  all.
A  giant  leech  also  lurks  here.  It  at¬ tacks  a  random  PC  within  ld4  +  1 rounds  after  the  character  enters  the water.  The  leech  drops  off  its  victim of  its  own  accord  as  soon  as  the  vic¬ tim  leaves  the  water.
Giant  leech:  Int  non;  AL  N;  AC  9; MV  3,  SW  3;  HD  4;  hP  30;  THACO 17;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld4;  SA  successful hit  means  the  leech  has  attached  to victim;  drains  blood  every  round thereafter,  causing  4  hp  damage; victim  has  only  a  1%  chance  of  de¬ tecting  the  attack  if  it  occurs  in  the water;  bite  and  blood  drain  not  felt until  victim  loses  half  its  hit  points; SZ  M;  ML  7;  XP  270.
Two  granite  mounds  rise  from  the pool,  as  shown  on  the  map.  PCs  able to  locate  the  mounds  in  the  darkness can  use  them  to  traverse  the  pond. PCs  on  the  mound  are  not  attacked by  leeches.
4f.  Clacking  corridor:  The  sounds of  clacking  teeth  fill  this  corridor. Chattering  skulls  are  imbedded  in  the walls  from  ceiling  to  floor,  running the  length  of  the  corridor  between the  golden  doors  on  either  end.  Any PC  touching  a  wall  or  brushing  up against  it  is  nipped  by  the  skulls  for ld4  damage.  Damaging  the  skulls  has no  effect,  since  they  magically  regen¬ erate  as  soon  as  they're  harmed.
As  the  party  makes  its  way  through this  passage,  indicate  the  direction  of the  clacks  so  the  PCs  have  a  chance  of
avoiding  contact  with  the  skulls.  For instance,  if  the  PCs  approach  a  sec¬ tion  of  the  corridor  where  clacks  can be  heard  from  the  left  and  front,  but not  the  right,  they  should  figure  out that  the  corridor  turns  right.
4g.  Spear  room:  When  this  door is  opened,  a  spear  shoots  out,  flying  a maximum  of  30'.  The  spear  is  magi¬ cally  guided  toward  the  nearest  living being,  striking  with  a  THACO  of  12  if the  target  fails  a  Dexterity  check.  The spear  is  made  from  solidified shadows,  inflicting  2dl0  damage  and draining  ld4  Strength  from  the  vic¬ tim;  lost  Strength  returns  in  2d4 turns.  When  the  door  is  closed  and re-opened,  another  spear  fires.
4h.  Roach  room:  From  the  oppo¬ site  side  of  the  door  leading  to  the  this room,  the  PCs  hear  the  sounds  of  tiny clawed  feet,  scuttling  and  scratching. All  interior  surfaces  of  this  room  are covered  with  tiny  roaches.  Though they  crunch  underfoot  and  crawl  up the  arms  of  PCs  who  touch  a  wall,  the roaches  are  harmless.
An  iron  ring  is  centered  in  the  floor of  this  room.  Any  PC  making  a Strength  check  can  lift  the  ring  to  re¬ veal  a  trapdoor,  leading  to  a  stairway winding  down.
4i.  Trapdoor:  This  is  identical  to room  4h,  except  there  are  no  roach¬ es.  Instead,  a  quartet  of  shadows waits  beneath  the  trap  door.  If  the PCs  approach  this  room  from  the  tun¬ nel  below,  the  shadows  wait  in  the room  above.
Shadows  (4):  Int  low;  AL  CE;  AC  7; MV  12;  HD  3+3;  hp  30  each; THACO  17;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld4  +  1;  SA successful  attacks  drain  one  point of  Strength  from  victim,  lost Strength  returns  in  2d4  turns  (vic¬ tims  reduced  to  0  Strength  become shadows);  SD  90%  undetectable  in all  but  brightest  of  surroundings; immune  to  sleep,  charm,  hold,  and cold-based  attacks;  SZ  M;  ML  spe¬ cial;  XP  650.
The  shadows  attack  as  soon  as  the trapdoor  is  opened,  using  their  chill¬ ing  touch  against  the  closest  PCs  (one
shadow  per  PC).  The  shadows  attack relentlessly,  fighting  to  the  death  and pursuing  as  necessary.
4j.  Bony  floor:  Human  bones  lit¬ ter  the  floor  here,  the  remains  of  the victims  of  the  lurker  above  that  clings to  the  ceiling  of  this  large  room.
Lurker  above:  Int  non;  AL  N;  AC  6; MV  FI  9  (B);  HD  10;  hp  70;  THACO 10;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld6;  SA  constric¬ tion  causes  automatic  ld6  damage per  round  and  suffocation  within ld4  +  1  rounds,  regardless  of  dam¬ age  suffered  by  victim;  prey  can fight  only  with  short  weapons  in hand  when  lurker  attacked;  SD  op¬ ponents  suffer  -4  penalty  to  sur¬ prise  rolls;  SZ  H;  ML  11;  XP  1,400.
The  lurker  above  falls  on  and  con¬ stricts  around  the  first  PC  who  enters the  room.  The  lurker  fights  to  the death.  Among  the  remains  on  the floor  are  a  cloth  bag  containing  45  gp, a  flask  containing  two  doses  of  a  po¬ tion  of  healing,  and  a  short  sword +1.  These  items,  belonging  to  a  re¬ cently  killed  intruder,  haven't  yet been  taken  to  the  treasure  room.
4k.  Tunnel:  This  is  a  4'-diameter tunnel,  with  rough  walls  of  black granite.  PCs  crawl  through  the  tun¬ nel  at  1/3  their  normal  movement  rate. The  tunnel  system  absorbs  light  just like  the  rest  of  the  Corridors  of Shadows.
4L.  Collapsing  cavern:  One
round  after  a  PC  enters  this  area,  the walls  begin  to  shake.  Small  chunks  of granite  begin  to  rain  from  the  ceiling. One  round  later,  the  ceiling  collapses, filling  the  cavern  with  granite  chunks. All  PCs  in  the  room  when  the  ceiling collapses  suffer  3d6  damage  (there  is enough  space  between  the  chunks  so that  PCs  don't  risk  suffocation).  A  PC can  dig  free  of  the  rubble  in  ld4  turns; the  time  is  halved  if  a  companion  as¬ sists  the  buried  character.
4m.  Stairway:  The  tunnel  widens to  10',  ending  in  a  stairway  leading upward  to  a  golden  door.
4n.  Collapsing  cavern:  This  is identical  to  area  41.
40.  Ooze  lair:  This  area  serves  as
30
X
JCT73C
Chapter*  3:  Leeches  and  Butteapjies
i
the  lair  of  a  gray  ochre  ooze,  a  bizarre blend  of  a  gray  ooze  and  an  ochre jelly.
Gray  ochre  ooze:  Int  animal;  AL  N; AC  8;  MV  4;  HD  7;  hp  50;  THACO 15;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ldlO  +  2;  SA  secre¬ tions  that  dissolve  flesh  and  cor¬ rode  metal  (chain  mail  corrodes  in one  round,  plate  mail  in  two;  note that  weapons  striking  the  creature may  corrode  and  break);  SD  im¬ mune  to  all  spells  (as  per  gray ooze),  immune  to  fire-  and  cold- based  attacks;  lightning  and  blows from  weapons  cause  full  damage; SZ  L;  ML  10;  XP  975.
When  the  party  passes  the  en¬ trance  to  its  lair,  the  gelatinous  crea¬ ture  oozes  out.  It  resembles  a  10' -long gray  amoeba  that  creeps  and  slides along  cavern  floors;  it  can't  climb walls  or  ceilings.
The  creature  tries  to  devour  the PCs,  pursuing  to  any  part  of  the  ca¬ vern  system  (areas  4k-4n).  The  crea¬ ture  locates  its  prey  by  movement and  vibrations,  and  therefore  it  is  not significantly  affected  by  the  dark¬ ness.  If  the  PCs  destroy  the  ooze,  they may  discover  74  sp,  45  gp,  a  gold bracelet  (worth  590  gp),  and  a  dia¬ mond  ring  (worth  1,200  gp)  con¬ cealed  in  its  lair.
5.  Music  Room
Read  the  following  when  the  party enters  this  room:
Beyond  the  golden  door  is  a  60'- square  room  of  black  granite,  lit  by nine  immense  chandeliers  hanging from  the  40'-tall  ceiling.  Eight  of the  chandeliers  are  made  of  blue glass;  the  ninth  is  made  of  red glass.  The  chandeliers  cast  pools  of dim  light  on  a  polished  granite floor.
Against  the  north  wall  are  two black  granite  thrones.  A  ghostly image  of  an  old  man  sits  in  each
throne.  The  images  have  glowing blue  eyes,  shimmering  silver beards,  and  violins  propped  be¬ neath  their  chins.  The  images pluck  the  violins  to  produce  eerie, discordant  tones.  The  violins  ap¬ pear  to  be  real.
The  old  men  are  spectres,  minions of  Icelia.  The  blue  glass  of  the  chande¬ liers  is  identical  to  the  blue  glass  of the  key  box  in  7m.  The  blue  chande¬ liers  are  labeled  5a-5h  on  the  map.
When  the  party  enters  the  room  or otherwise  makes  their  presence known,  the  spectres  stop  playing  and call  out  to  them.  The  spectres  speak in  unison.
"Come  forward,"  they  say,  their voices  like  death  rattles.  "We  know  of your  quest.  Many  have  come  before you,  and  all  have  failed.  But  these  use¬ less  deaths  must  end.  Allow  us  to help;  we  will  be  happy  to  answer your  questions.  And  when  your  ques¬ tions  have  been  answered,  we  ask only  that  you  grant  us  the  honor  of hearing  our  music."  The  spectres urge  the  party  to  come  close,  claiming that  they  can't  hear  from  such  a  dis¬ tance.
If  the  PCs  leave  or  decline  to  come further  into  the  room,  the  spectres resume  their  playing.  If  the  PCs  take any  hostile  actions,  the  spectres  at¬ tack  as  described  below.  Otherwise, if  the  PCs  come  at  least  30'  into  the room,  the  spectres  entertain  their questions.  The  spectres  have  no  ac¬ tual  interest  in  the  party's  welfare; they  are  feigning  cooperation  in hopes  of  catching  the  PCs  off-guard. At  your  discretion,  the  spectres'  re¬ sponses  can  be  blatant  lies  ("Only  one key  is  necessary  to  open  the  golden door")  or  empty  advice  ("The  secrets of  the  stronghold  have  baffled  the best  minds  in  the  Realms.  We  advise you  to  proceed  with  caution").
Once  the  party  appears  to  relax,  the spectres  abruptly  rise  and  cry,  "Now hear  our  song!"  Each  spectre  plucks  a
single  tone,  and  the  blue  chandeliers vibrate.  A  moment  later,  chandelier 5a  crashes  to  the  ground;  any  PC  oc¬ cupying  the  5a  section  of  the  map  suf¬ fers  2d6  damage.  The  blue chandeliers  continue  to  crash,  one per  round,  until  all  eight  have  fallen. The  chandeliers  fall  in  order  (5b,  5c, and  so  on).  All  PCs  occupying  the space  below  a  falling  chandelier  suf¬ fer  4d6  damage  (a  successful  Dexter¬ ity  check  reduces  the  damage  by  V2; the  spectres  are  unaffected  by  falling chandeliers.
After  the  first  chandelier  falls,  the spectres  tuck  their  violins  in  their belts,  then  spring  from  their  thrones, hands  extended,  toward  the  nearest PC.  The  spectres  intend  to  kill  all  PCs with  their  chilling  touches  and  en¬ ergy  draining  ability.
Spectres  (2):  Int  high;  AL  LE;  AC  2; MV  15,  FI  30  (B);  HD  7  +3;  hP  55 each;  THACO  13;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld8; SA  successful  attacks  drain  two  life energy  levels  from  victim;  SD  +  1 or  better  weapon  to  hit;  immune  to sleep,  charm,  hold,  and  cold-based attacks;  immune  to  all  poisons  and paralyzation  attacks;  SZ  M;  ML  15; XP  3,000.
The  spectres  fight  to  the  death.  To obtain  a  spectre's  violin,  the  spectre must  be  destroyed.
If  the  PCs  destroy  the  red  chande¬ lier  (it  is  AC  3;  30  points  of  damage shatter  it),  the  room  becomes  com¬ pletely  dark.  The  spectres  see  nor¬ mally  in  the  darkness  of  the  room;  the PCs  are  affected  as  in  the  Corridors  of Shadows.
The  spectres  will  not  leave  this room.  If  all  the  PCs  withdraw,  the spectres  return  to  their  thrones  and resume  playing.  All  fallen  chandeliers magically  repair  themselves  and  re¬ attach  to  the  ceiling.  If  the  party  en¬ ters  again,  the  spectres  immediately play  the  notes  causing  the  chande¬ liers  to  fall;  the  chandeliers  fall  in  the order  described  above,  and  the  spec-
31
far- *
f
L
jf~a:
Chapter  3:  Leecbes  and  Butteripfes
1
jl:
tres  attack.
The  violins  can  be  used  to  shatter the  glass  key  box.  See  area  7m  for  de¬ tails.
6.
Attcbcu  *v/T el&ponX&R
An  archway  of  black  marble  arcs over  the  golden  door  leading  to  this room.  The  archway  is  similar  to  the one  in  area  3.  A  strong  odor  of  or¬ anges  seeps  from  beneath  the  door.
The  interior  of  the  empty  room  is several  degrees  cooler  than  the  outer corridor.  Wisps  of  orange  mist  rise from  the  floor.  Any  PC  stepping  inside is  automatically  teleported  to  room  3.
7 .  Coiziz)dorzs  of  Glass
The  surfaces  of  the  rooms  and  cor¬ ridors  of  this  section  (including  the  7c tunnel  system)  are  made  of  jagged green  glass.  The  glass  floors,  covered with  rough  bumps  and  angular  pro¬ jections,  make  travel  difficult,  reduc¬ ing  normal  movement  rates  by  Vi. Green  glass  stalactites  and  stalag¬ mites,  averaging  3-4'  long  and  a  foot in  diameter,  sprout  from  the  floors and  ceilings.  (Unlike  the  Corridors  of Shadows,  light  sources  and  spells function  normally  in  the  Corridors  of Glass.)
Interspersed  among  the  glass  sta¬ lactites  are  what  appear  to  be  several 6'  limestone  stalactites.  The  glass  sta¬ lactites  pose  no  threat,  but  the  others are  actually  piercers.
Piercers  (8):  Int  non;  AL  N;  AC  3;  MV 1;  HD  4;  hp  30  each;  THACO  17; #AT  1;  Dmg  4d6;  SA  can  only  attack once  (if  attack  fails,  it  must  resume its  position  on  ceiling  to  attack again);  inflicts  1  point  of  acid  dam¬ age  when  touched;  SD  victims  have -  7  penalty  on  surprise  roll;  SZ  M; ML  9;  XP  420.
A  PC  is  safe  from  the  piercers within  3'  of  a  wall.  Any  PC  who  care¬ fully  observes  the  phony  stalactites for  two  consecutive  rounds  deter¬ mines  that  they  are  living  creatures
(the  PC  notices  their  eyes  or  detects  a slight  movement).  Otherwise,  the piercers  drop  and  attack  any  PC  who moves  more  than  3'  from  the  wall.  If  a piercer  misses  its  target,  it  tries  to crawl  back  up  the  wall  to  the  ceiling to  position  itself  for  another  attack.
Translucent  glass  plates  block  the passage  at  various  points  in  the  corri¬ dors  (see  map).  Only  about  an  inch thick,  the  plates  are  easy  to  break  (AC 10;  6  points  of  damage  shatters  them completely).  A  PC  who  shatters  a plate  instantly  experiences  a  Sensory Phenomenon  (roll  or  choose);  if  more than  one  PC  damages  a  plate  at  the same  time,  randomly  choose  one  of the  PCs  as  the  victim  of  the  phenome¬ non.  A  shattered  plate  magically  re¬ pairs  itself  in  10  rounds.
7a.  Spear  room:  When  this  door is  opened,  a  barrage  of  magical  glass spears  shoots  out,  striking  all  PCs  be¬ tween  the  door  and  the  west  wall who  fail  Dexterity  checks.  PCs  struck by  the  spears  take  4d6  damage.  When the  door  is  closed  and  re-opened,  an¬ other  spear  barrage  fires.
7b.  Stalactite  room:  The  ceiling of  this  room  is  about  20'  high.  Six-foot green  glass  stalactites  cover  the  ceil¬ ing.  The  stalactites  are  harmless.
An  iron  ring  is  centered  in  the  floor. Any  PC  making  a  Strength  check  can lift  the  ring  to  reveal  a  trapdoor  and  a stairway  winding  down.
7c.  Tunnel:  This  is  a  4'-diameter tunnel  made  of  rough  green  glass. PCs  crawl  through  the  tunnel  at  1/3 their  normal  movement  rate.
7d.  Blocked  passage:  A  pile  of broken  glass  completely  blocks  this section  of  the  passage.  It  takes  one  PC 20  rounds  to  remove  enough  glass  so the  party  can  proceed;  two  PCs  can unblock  the  passage  in  10  rounds, and  so  on.
A  lichling  is  buried  beneath  the glass.  After  the  party  spends  five rounds  removing  glass,  the  lichling squirms  free  and  attacks,  lunging  to¬ wards  the  nearest  PC,  snarling  and ripping  with  its  long  claws.  It  fights  to the  death.
Lichling:  Int  animal;  AL  CE;  AC  1;
MV  3,  FI  24  (B);  HD  2  +2;  hP  15; THACO  19;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld6  (bite); SD  can  only  be  struck  by  +1  or better  magical  weapons;  immune to  charm,  sleep,  enfeeblement, polymorph,  cold,  electricity,  fear, insanity,  and  death  spells;  SZ  S;  ML 19;  XP  270.  (See  page  63  for  more about  the  lichling.)
7e.  Stalactite  room:  This  is  iden¬ tical  to  room  7b,  except  that  a  human¬ oid  with  the  head  of  cockroach  lies motionless  on  the  floor,  a  glass  stalac¬ tite  piercing  its  chest.  The  creature has  black  antennae,  a  pair  of  bulbous golden  eyeballs,  and  long  claws.  It wears  a  tattered  scarlet  robe.
The  creature  is  a  dead  lichling  ser¬ vitor,  a  former  human  intruder  mur¬ dered  by  Icelia,  then  transformed  to attend  to  the  needs  of  the  lichlings and  guard  the  stronghold.  The  servi¬ tor  was  guarding  this  room  when  a stalactite  fell  from  the  ceiling  and killed  it.
If  any  PC  comes  within  a  foot  of  the corpse,  it  reflexively  swipes  at  the  PC with  one  claw.  A  PC  must  succeed  in  a Dexterity  check  to  dodge  the  claw; failure  means  2d6  damage.  The corpse  attacks  only  once.
7f.  Smooth  glass:  The  glass  floor of  this  area  is  perfectly  smooth  and lighter  green  than  the  glass  walls.  In fact,  the  floor  glass  is  significantly thinner  than  the  walls  or  the  glass elsewhere  in  the  Corridor  of  Glass. Any  PC  who  steps  on  the  smooth  glass feels  it  crack  slightly.  There  is  a  20% chance  that  the  entire  floor  shatters from  the  weight  of  any  PC.  This chance  is  cumulative;  if  two  PCs  are crossing  at  the  same  time,  there  is  a 40%  chance  that  the  floor  shatters.  If three  are  crossing,  the  chance  in¬ creases  to  60%;  if  five  or  more  are crossing,  the  floor  definitely  shatters.
PCs  on  the  floor  when  it  shatters fall  20'  below  into  a  pit  of  glass  spikes, suffering  4d6  damage.  The  shattered floor  magically  becomes  intact  again in  one  horn.
7g.  Noisy  door:  When  the  party comes  within  90'  of  the  door  to  this room,  a  magic  month  is  activated;  a
32
xxzx
[
1“
Chapter*  3:  Leeches  a rod
n
X
JZ
^1
2
mouth  opens  on  the  south  side  of  the door  and  bellows,  "By  order  of  the King  of  Cormyr,  I  demand  that  you open  this  door  and  help  me!"
The  magic  mouth  was  cast  by Jharold  the  Chosen,  who's  trapped  in¬ side  the  room.  The  magic  mouth  was ordered  to  activate  at  the  approach  of any  living  human  or  demi-human.
If  the  party  opens  the  door,  they  dis¬ cover  a  middle-aged  man  lying  on  the floor,  trapped  beneath  a  pile  of  glass shards  that  completely  covers  his body  from  the  waist  down.  The  man has  beady  brown  eyes,  a  long  thin nose,  and  an  arrogant  sneer.  He wears  a  filthy  silver  tunic  with  an onyx  secured  to  the  center;  he  smells foul.  The  man  eyes  the  party  with  a mixture  of  curiosity  and  contempt. "Don't  just  stand  there!"  he  barks. "Get  me  out  of  here!"
Jharold  the  Chosen:  12th-level  hu¬ man  mage;  AL  NG;  AC  10;  MV  6  (re¬ duced  due  to  crippled  leg);  hp  17 (maximum  of  40;  reduced  due  to injuries);  THACO  17;  #AT  1;  Dmg
3  3
ld4  (dagger).  Spells  (number  per level):  4/4/4/4/4/1.
Jharold  was  one  of  the  com¬ manders  of  the  Sons  of  the  Stone  bat¬ talion  that  King  Azoun  IV  ordered  to investigate  Wolover's  Keep.  He  was among  the  handful  of  survivors  to  en¬ ter  the  labyrinth,  and  the  only  Son  to make  it  past  the  arrival  room  (area  1). A  few  days  ago,  his  investigation  of this  room  activated  a  trap  that  caused an  avalanche  of  glass  shards,  burying him  from  the  waist  down.  He  has been  unable  to  free  himself,  but  he has  subsisted  on  a  bag  of  food  he  was carrying  with  him.
Egocentric  and  pompous,  Jharold believes  that  the  gods  specifically chose  him  to  liberate  the  treasure from  the  labyrinth.  That's  why  he's gotten  this  far  when  all  the  other Sons  have  died.  (In  fact,  the  gods  have little  interest  in  Jharold  — he's  gotten this  far  mostly  by  pure  luck.)
Jharold  refuses  to  speak  with  the party  until  they  free  him.  If  the  party does  not  cooperate,  Jharold  angrily
tells  them  to  leave  him  alone.  "The gods  will  send  others."  If  the  PCs leave,  Jharold  continues  to  struggle. If  the  PCs  return  to  this  area  after  an hour  has  passed,  they  discover Jharold' s  dead  body;  his  struggles caused  another  avalanche  that  killed him.
If  the  party  agrees  to  help,  it  takes them  only  a  few  minutes  to  move away  enough  glass  to  free  Jharold.  He staggers  to  his  feet,  brushing  away glass  from  his  tunic.  Bruises  and  small cuts  cover  his  body,  and  his  right  leg is  severely  sprained,  but  otherwise he's  in  remarkably  good  shape.  "The gods  protect  their  favorites,"  he sniffs.  (Again,  he  was  just  lucky.)
Jharold  accepts  any  medical  aid  the party  offers.  He  asks  their  names  and homelands,  though  he's  not  particu¬ larly  interested,  and  he  accepts  what¬ ever  they  care  to  share.
Jharold  proudly  introduces  himself and  says  he  helped  lead  the  Sons  of Stone  on  an  investigation  of  Wolover's Keep,  but  shortly  thereafter,  he  re¬ ceived  a  vision  of  vast  treasure,  "a  vi-
X
Chapter*  3:  Leeches  and  Batte&Lpjies
n
X
sion  from  the  gods."  He  brushes  a speck  of  glass  from  his  staff.  "I  as¬ sume  you've  come  for  the  treasure  as well,  correct?"  If  the  party  says  they¬ 've  come  for  other  reasons  — such  as finding  the  source  of  the  lichlings  — Jharold  smiles  sarcastically;  obvious¬ ly,  he  doesn't  believe  them.
"You  had  the  same  vision  I  had,"  he says.  "Don't  bother  to  deny  it.  A  vision of  a  golden  door  that  opens  with three  keys."  (Like  the  Chosen  PC, Jharold  experienced  the  vision  de¬ scribed  in  The  Veilstone  Peaks  en¬ counter  15  in  Chapter  1.)  "But  you're wasting  your  efforts.  By  the  time  you find  the  door,  the  treasure  will  al¬ ready  be  mine.  The  gods  will  see  to that."  If  the  PCs  ask  what  makes  him so  sure,  he  puffs  himself  up  and  pro¬ claims,  "I  am  Jharold  the  Chosen!  I  am the  gods'  favorite!"
Jharold  thanks  them  for  rescuing him,  then  orders  them  to  leave.  "I have  treasure  to  find."  If  the  PCs  offer to  accompany  Jharold,  he  laughs.  "I don't  need  the  likes  of  you.  The  gods will  give  me  all  the  help  I  require."  If the  PCs  try  to  take  Jharold  captive,  he uses  hold  person  and  charm  person on  the  "unlucky  and  ignorant"  PCs  be¬ fore  reluctantly  surrendering.  He won't  assist  them  in  any  way,  and  he tries  to  escape  at  the  earliest  opportu¬ nity  (with  the  results  described  be¬ low).
If  the  party  takes  no  hostile  actions, Jharold  makes  an  offer  before  they part  company.
"It  occurs  to  me  that  the  gods  may have  brought  us  together  for  rea¬ sons  beyond  my  rescue,"  Jharold says.  "We  are  all  honorable  folk, and  we  all  seek  the  same  thing. Perhaps  the  gods  meant  us  to  ex¬ change  information."
"I  have  three  questions  that  trou¬ ble  me  about  this  labyrinth,"  he continues.  "If  you  answer  them honestly,  I  will  provide  you  with three  pieces  of  information  I  have learned  that  you  may  not  know:
"First,  I  know  the  name  of  the  en¬ tity  who  built  this  labyrinth.
"Second,  I  know  how  to  success¬ fully  traverse  the  room  of  the  red glass  skull.
"Third,  I  know  a  word  uttered  to me  in  a  vision  by  an  old  man  wear¬ ing  a  robe  covered  with  small  cir¬ cles.
"For  each  question  of  mine  you answer,  I  will  tell  you  one  of  these things.  You  may  choose  which piece  of  information  you  wish  for me  to  reveal.  What  do  you  say?"
If  the  party  declines,  Jharold shrugs  and  leaves;  the  encounter  is over.  If  the  party  agrees,  Jharold  asks them  his  first  question:  "How  do  I  re¬ turn  safely  to  the  Mosaic  Room  (area 3)?"  If  the  PCs  answer  honestly  — that is,  if  they  give  him  precise  directions to  area  3  —  Jharold  gives  them  which¬ ever  of  the  three  pieces  of  informa¬ tion  they  like  (the  information  is  listed below),  then  proceeds  to  the  next question.
If  the  PCs  don't  know  the  answer, choose  not  to  answer,  or  tell  an  obvi¬ ous  lie,  Jharold  doesn't  give  them  any information;  he  proceeds  to  his  next question.  Assume  that  Jharold  is  a good  enough  judge  of  character  to  tell when  he's  being  lied  to;  if  you  judge that  the  PCs  give  an  exceptionally  sin¬ cere  or  creative  lie,  Jharold  believes them.
Jharold's  other  questions:
•  "What  lies  beyond  the  black  arch  in the  Mosaic  Room?"  Jharold  was afraid  to  go  in.  He  accepts  any  gen¬ eral  information  about  the  Corri¬ dor  of  Shadows,  such  as  how  those areas  absorb  light  or  any  details about  any  of  the  rooms.
•  "Is  one  of  the  keys  needed  to  open the  treasure  door  gold  in  color?" Jharold  believes  he  saw  a  gold  key in  a  dream,  but  his  memory  is fuzzy.  Though  the  party  may  be¬
lieve  a  gold  key  is  necessary  —  as  a result  of  misunderstanding Xamine's  note  in  area  1  — in  fact,  it isn't.
Jharold's  information:
•  "The  name  of  the  entity  who  built this  labyrinth  is  Icelia."  Jharold heard  the  name  whispered  to  him in  a  dream;  he  has  no  details.
•  "To  cross  the  room  of  the  glass skull,  toss  gems  or  any  metal  ob¬ jects  in  his  pool  until  the  door opens."  If  the  PCs  haven't  yet  been to  this  room,  Jharold  tells  them how  to  get  there.
•  The  word  uttered  in  a  vision  by  an old  man  wearing  a  robe  covered with  small  circles  was  "heart." Jharold  has  no  idea  of  the  signifi¬ cance  of  this  word,  nor  can  he identify  the  old  man.  In  fact,  the word  was  spoken  by  the  spirit  of Amry  Wolover.
After  the  party  has  had  the  chance to  answer  all  three  questions,  Jharold bids  them  farewell  and  the  encounter is  over;  Jharold  has  no  other  informa¬ tion  useful  to  the  party.  If  asked, Jharold  refuses  to  accompany  the PCs.
After  Jharold  and  the  PCs  part  com¬ pany,  the  PCs  never  see  him  again  — alive,  that  is.  Place  Jharold's  body  in  a room  the  PCs  haven't  yet  explored but  are  likely  to  get  to  later;  for  in¬ stance,  Jharold  might  be  killed  by  the glass  skeletons  in  area  7i  or  by  the  gas in  area  8j.
7h.  Spear  room:  This  is  identical to  room  7a.
7i.  Glass  pit:  A  long  stairway  leads down  to  this  circular  room,  which  is about  80'  in  diameter.  Sharp  shards of  broken  green  glass  fill  the  room  to a  depth  of  about  3';  the  ceiling  rises 30'  from  the  surface  of  the  glass.  Any PC  who  studies  the  pit  from  the  door¬ way  for  two  consecutive  rounds  no¬ tices  slight  movements  among  the glass  shards.
34
x
Chapnen  3:  L eecfres  a nd  Batter^ ips
m
Two  rounds  after  any  PC  enters  this room,  six  figures  rise  from  the  pit,  re¬ sembling  9 '-tall  skeletons  made  of sparkling  glass  fragments.  The  crea¬ tures  wield  long  glass  swords  which appear  to  be  fused  to  their  hands. Two  glass  wings  sprout  from  their spines.
Immediately  after  they  rise  from the  pit,  the  creatures  open  their  jaws and  emit  bone  chilling  screeches  that sound  like  fingernails  scraping  slate. They  beat  their  glassy  wings  and  be¬ gin  to  soar  in  the  air,  zooming  toward the  party  with  their  swords  slashing.
Flying  glass  skeletons  (6):  Int  non; AL  N;  AC  3;  MV  12,  FI  15  (C);  HD  7; hp  55  each;  THACO  13;  #AT  1;  Dmg ldlO;  SD  immune  to  all  sleep, charm,  and  hold  spells;  immune  to fear  and  cold-based  attacks;  edged or  piercing  weapons  do  only  half damage;  explode  when  reduced  to 0  hp  (see  text);  regenerates  in  2d4 (2d4)  rounds  (see  text);  SZ  L;  ML 15;  XP  1,400.
The  glass  skeletons  remain  air¬ borne  for  the  duration  of  the  battle, making  diving  attacks  at  random  PCs. They  fight  to  the  death,  but  will  not leave  this  room.  A  skeleton  reduced to  0  hp  explodes  in  a  shower  of  frag¬ ments;  all  PCs  within  10'  of  an  explod¬ ing  skeleton  suffer  2d6  damage (intact  skeletons  are  unaffected  by the  explosion).
PCs  wading  through  the  glass  pit must  move  at  1/3  of  their  normal movement  rate;  falling  or  being knocked  down  into  the  glass  results in  ld4  damage.
7j.  Stalactite  Room:  This  is  the same  as  room  7b,  except  that  ten  lich- lings  cling  to  the  stalactites,  immobile and  in  plain  sight.
The  lichlings  are  semi-dormant.  If the  PCs  move  through  the  room  slow¬ ly  and  quietly,  the  lichlings  do  not  at¬ tack.  However,  if  the  PCs  don't specifically  state  that  they're  taking precautions  to  be  quiet,  or  if  they  at¬ tack  the  lichlings,  all  lichlings  instant¬ ly  come  to  life,  soaring  at  the  party with  their  jaws  snapping.
The  lichlings  attack  random  PCs and  fight  to  the  death,  pursuing  as necessary.  However,  the  lichlings can't  pass  through  a  closed  golden door  or  closed  trap  door.
Lichling  (10):  Int  Animal;  AL  CE;  AC 1;  MV  3,  FI  24  (B);  HD  2  +2;  hp  13 each;  THACO  19;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld6; SA  fangs  cause  1  hp/rd  bleeding less  unless  removed;  SD  immune  to charm,  sleep),  enfablement,  poly¬ morph,  cold,  electricity,  fear,  in¬ sanity,  and  death  spells,  +  1  or better  weapon  to  hit;  SZ  S;  ML  19; XP  270.  (See  page  63  for  more about  the  lichling.)
7k.  Needle  trap:  The  space  be¬ tween  the  dotted  lines  on  the  map  is littered  with  tiny  glass  needles.  As soon  as  any  PC  steps  into  the  space, two  panels  magically  appear  (on  the dotted  lines),  completely  sealing  the area.  The  panels  are  5'  thick  and made  of  opaque  red  glass.  Two rounds  later,  volleys  of  tiny  glass  nee¬ dles  fire  from  the  panels  towards  the trapped  PCs.  All  those  caught  in  the volley  of  needles  automatically  suffer ld4  damage  per  round.
The  magical  needles  pass  through all  types  of  armor,  shields,  and magically-generated  protection;  they are  unaffected  by  any  spell  short  of  a wish.  The  needle  volley  continues  un¬ til  either  of  the  panels  is  shattered; each  panel  is  AC  3  and  has  25  hp. While  the  needles  are  firing,  PCs make  all  attacks  at  a  -2  penalty. When  a  panel  is  shattered,  both  pan¬ els  disappear,  and  the  needle  volley stops.  When  10  minutes  elapse,  the trap  resets  and  triggers  again  if  a  PC steps  in  the  space  between  the  dotted lines.
7L.  Hovering  skull:  Foot-long green  glass  stalactites  cover  the  ceil¬ ing  of  this  room.  A  5' -diameter  glass skull  hovers  about  3'  off  the  ground near  the  south  wall  of  the  room.  Just north  of  the  skull  is  a  pool  of  clear  wa¬ ter,  about  20'  deep.  The  bottom  of  the pool  is  filled  with  swords,  daggers, shields,  and  a  variety  of  other  weap¬ ons  and  armor  pieces,  all  made  of
clear  glass;  there  are  also  numerous gems,  coins,  and  jewelry  pieces  in  the bottom  of  the  pool,  also  made  of  clear glass.
The  golden  door  on  the  south  side of  the  room  shown  on  the  map doesn't  exist  when  the  party  enters the  room.  The  party's  actions  may create  it,  as  described  below.  Note  al¬ so  that  if  the  party  approaches  area 7L  from  the  corridor  south  of  area 7L,  they  see  only  a  blank  wall  instead of  a  door.
The  enchantment  of  the  pool  is such  that  all  inanimate  objects  that touch  the  water  — both  magical  and normal  objects  — are  instantly  and permanently  turned  to  glass!  Glass weapons  are  useless,  and  gems  and other  precious  objects  turned  to  glass lose  all  value.  Flesh  is  unharmed  by the  water;  for  instance,  should  a  PC stick  a  gloved  hand  in  the  water,  the glove  turns  to  glass,  but  the  hand  is unharmed.
As  soon  as  the  PCs  enter  this  room, the  skull  babbles  in  a  high,  scratchy voice,  "Pay  me!  Pay  me  for  entering my  room!"  The  babbling  continues until  the  PCs  place  1,000  gp  or  its equivalent  in  weapons,  gems,  or  oth¬ er  items  in  the  pool  (thus  perma¬ nently  turning  them  to  glass),  at which  point  the  golden  door  on  the south  wall  appears;  it  functions  as  a normal  golden  door.  The  door  stays  in place  for  five  rounds,  then  vanishes again;  it  takes  another  1,000  gp  worth of  items  placed  in  the  pool  to  make  it reappear.
The  skull  can't  defend  itself,  and the  PCs  can  attack  it  if  they  like.  It takes  30  hit  points  of  damage  to  de¬ stroy  the  skull  (it  is  AC  3).  If  the  skull is  destroyed,  glass  stalactites  rain from  the  ceiling,  striking  all  PCs  in  the room  for  an  automatic  4d6  damage per  round  (Successful  Dexterity checks  reduce  damage  by  Vi).  The rain  of  stalactites  stops  in  five  rounds, at  which  time  the  skull  reappears with  all  hit  points  intact.
7m.  Violet  cube  room:  In  each corner  of  this  room  stands  a  square chamber,  6'  x  6'  x  10',  made  of  trans¬ lucent  blue  glass.  Inside  each  cham-
35
f
- — C - JU  -J  .  .  „  -  f   _ ~  1
j  Chapter*  3:  Leet:hes  and  Butterflies  ]
1,
.  _ .  .  A.  > - r. - f -
ber  stands  a  humanoid  made  of  the same  translucent  blue  glass.  These are  glass  golems  (labeled  G1-G4  on  the mapsheet).  As  soon  as  any  PC  enters the  room,  all  the  golems  pound  on  the sides  of  their  chambers,  but  are  un¬ able  to  free  themselves.
In  the  center  of  the  room  is  a  cube of  translucent  blue  glass,  about  3' square;  the  cube  is  fused  to  the  green glass  of  the  floor.  Clearly  visible  inside the  blue  cube  is  a  small  block  of opaque  violet  glass.  The  violet  cube  is about  6"  square  and  has  a  key-shaped impression  on  the  top.  (The  violet cube  is  needed  to  solidify  the  mist  key in  room  8p).
If  the  PCs  have  been  to  room  6,  they recognize  the  translucent  blue  glass in  this  room;  it  is  identical  to  the  glass making  up  the  blue  chandeliers  in room  6.
The  blue  glass  cube,  the  violet  cube, and  the  glass  golem  chambers  (that  is, all  glass  objects  except  the  golems) are  permanently  enchanted  with  wall of  force.  However,  all  the  blue  glass objects  — the  golem  chambers,  the  go¬ lems  themselves,  and  the  blue  cube encasing  the  violet  block  — can  be shattered  by  plucking  the  proper strings  on  the  spectre  violins  (from room  6).
The  PCs  must  determine  the  results of  plucking  the  strings  by  trial  and  er¬ ror.  Each  violin  has  five  strings;  for convenience,  assume  the  strings  are numbered  1-5.  The  enchantment  of the  violins  is  such  that  no  more  than one  string  can  be  plucked  on  each  per round;  therefore,  a  total  of  two strings  can  be  plucked  in  the  same round,  one  from  each  violin.  A  PC who  plucks  a  string  must  announce the  number  of  the  string  being plucked.
Plucking  specific  strings  produce the  following  results:
•  If  string  5  is  plucked  on  either  vio¬ lin,  all  four  of  the  golem  chambers shatter,  releasing  the  glass  golems. The  glass  golems  attack  as  de¬ scribed  below.
•  If  a  PC  plucks  string  1  on  one  of  the violins,  and  a  second  PC  plucks
string  4  on  the  other  violin,  the blue  cube  shatters;  the  PCs  must pluck  these  strings  at  the  same time  (that  is,  they  must  pluck  them in  the  same  round).  Any  PC  may then  remove  and  take  the  violet cube.
•  On  the  same  round,  if  a  PC  plucks
string  1  on  one  of  the  violins,  and  a second  PC  plucks  string  1  on  the other  violin,  golem  G1  is  instantly reduced  to  0  hp  and  explodes,  in¬ flicting  3d6  damage  to  all  PCs  with¬ in  a  20'  radius;  other  golems  aren't affected  by  the  explosion.  This  re¬ sult  also  occurs  if  golem  G1  is  still in  its  chamber.
•  Likewise,  plucking  string  2  on  both
violins  in  the  same  round  destroys golem  G2,  string  3  on  both  violins destroys  golem  G3,  and  string  4  on both  violins  destroys  golem  G4.
•  Plucking  any  other  string  or  any combination  of  strings  has  no  re¬ sult.
Glass  golems  (4):  Int  non;  AL  N;  AC 3;  MV  6;  HD  14;  hp  85  each;  THACO 7;  #AT  2  or  1;  Dmg  2d8/2d8;  SA spew  glass  needles  (see  text);  SD  af¬ fected  only  by  +  1  or  better  magi¬ cal  weapons;  magical  electrical attacks  slow  it  for  3  rounds,  all  oth¬ er  spells  are  ignored;  if  reduced  to 0  hp,  explodes  in  shower  of  glass, inflicting  3d6  damage  to  all  within 20'  radius  (save  vs.  spells  for  half damage);  SZ  L;  ML  20;  XP  10,000.
Once  released,  the  golems  attack  all PCs  in  the  room,  smashing  victims with  their  powerful  fists.  Every  five rounds,  a  released  golem  automati¬ cally  spews  a  shower  of  tiny  glass needles  at  the  nearest  target  within 20'  (make  a  normal  attack  roll);  if  the attack  succeeds,  the  victim  suffers 3d8  damage.  If  no  target  is  within range,  the  golem  spews  needles harmlessly  into  the  air.  The  golems fight  to  the  death,  but  will  not  leave this  room.
If  all  PCs  withdraw  from  the  room, all  golems  that  haven't  exploded  re¬ turn  to  their  corners;  their  blue  glass
chambers  reappear,  imprisoning them  again.  These  golems  immedi¬ ately  recover  all  lost  hit  points.  Ex¬ ploded  golems  remain  shattered  and do  not  revive.
7n.  Archway/teleporter:  Except that  the  archway  is  made  of  opaque green  glass,  this  is  identical  to  room  6.
8.  Corzrzidorzs  of  M)sT
The  surfaces  of  the  rooms  and  pas¬ sages  of  this  section  are  made  of  a  vio¬ let  cloud-like  substance  that  smells vaguely  of  vinegar.  The  substance  has the  texture  of  cotton.  The  PCs  may have  discovered  the  source  of  this substance,  one  of  Wolover's  failed  ex¬ periments,  in  Chapter  1.  Icelia  adapt¬ ed  that  material  for  her  own purposes.
Characters  walking  through  these passages  move  at  half  their  normal movement  rate,  sinking  slightly  with every  step  as  if  walking  through snow.  Falling  on  these  surfaces  from any  height  is  like  falling  into  feathers and  causes  no  damage.
Climbing  walls  made  of  the  cloud substance  is  quite  easy;  a  climbing character  can  punch  or  kick  as  many handholds  and  footholds  as  desired. (The  PCs  must  discover  this  tech¬ nique  for  themselves.)  Thieves,  as wells  as  PCs  proficient  in  Mountain¬ eering,  can  climb  these  walls  at  half their  normal  movement  rate;  others climb  at  1/3  their  normal  rate.  Because the  walls  are  so  easy  to  climb,  the chance  of  falling  is  greatly  reduced. Thieves  and  PCs  proficient  in  Climb¬ ing  or  Mountaineering  must  make  a Dexterity  check  for  every  20  rounds spent  climbing  a  wall;  others  must check  every  10  rounds.  Failing  a check  means  the  PC  falls.  Though  fall¬ ing  PCs  suffer  no  damage,  they  may end  up  in  an  area  where  they  risk sinking.
As  described  in  the  text,  various floor  surfaces  in  the  Corridors  of  Mist have  the  texture  of  quicksand,  and PCs  risk  sinking  in  them.  When  a  PC steps  or  falls  into  one  of  these  areas, execute  the  "Sinking  Routine":
36
x
Chapter*  3:  Leeches  and  Batteafjias
1
JL
•  The  victim  makes  a  Dexterity check  with  a  penalty  to  find  a solid  handhold.  A  Strength  check with  a  +  6  penalty  pulls  the  victim free;  otherwise,  two  characters working  together  can  pull  the  vic¬ tim  free  as  described  below.  The penalties  reflect  the  powerful  pull of  the  quicksand-like  cloud.
•  A  failed  Dexterity  check  means  the victim  sinks  2'  per  round.  A  com¬ panion  can  pull  the  victim  free with  a  Strength  check  at  a  +  6  pen¬ alty;  two  companions  working  to¬ gether  combine  their  Strength scores  and  make  a  single  successful Strength  check  with  a  +  6  penalty to  pull  him  free.  For  example,  if one  PC's  Strength  is  11  and  a  sec¬ ond  PC's  Strength  is  12,  their Strength  total  is  23.  With  the  +  6 penalty  to  the  roll,  they  must  roll  a 17  or  less  to  pull  the  victim  free. Two  PCs  whose  Strengths  total  26 or  more  succeed  automatically.
•  A  victim  who  sinks  below  the  sur¬ face  can  still  be  rescued  if  compan¬ ions  feel  around  to  find  him.  To determine  when  a  submerged  PC suffocates,  see  the  Drowning  sec¬ tion  of  the  Special  Underwater Rules  in  the  Introduction.  If  not rescued,  the  victim  suffocates, sinks,  and  is  never  seen  again.
8a.  Pit  Trap:  Though  this  appears to  be  an  empty  room,  the  floor  con¬ ceals  a  magical  pit  trap.  The  floor  re¬ acts  to  the  pressure  of  any  weight heavier  than  five  pounds.  One  round after  such  weight  touches  the  floor, the  entire  floor  disappears.  All  those in  the  room  who  succeed  in  a  Dexteri¬ ty  check  at  a  +  4  penalty  jump  to  the safety  of  the  doorway  in  the  room; those  who  fail  drop  10',  landing  on  a surface  of  dark,  sticky  mist.  The  fall causes  no  damage,  but  those  landing in  the  mist  are  stuck  tight.
For  every  round  stuck  in  the  mist,  a victim  suffers  3d6  damage  from  its contact  poison  (save  vs.  poison  for half  damage).  Water  or  any  other  liq¬ uid  applied  negates  the  stickiness  and frees  the  victim;  otherwise,  nothing short  of  a  limited  wish  can  free  a
trapped  victim.
The  floor  reappears  one  hour  after the  trap  is  triggered.
8b.  Trapdoor:  An  iron  ring  is  cen¬ tered  in  the  floor.  Any  PC  making  a Strength  check  can  lift  the  ring  to  re¬ veal  a  trapdoor,  leading  to  a  stairway winding  down.
8c.  Tunnel:  This  is  a  4'-diameter tunnel  with  walls  of  the  violet  cloud substance.  PCs  crawling  through  the tunnel  do  so  at  1  /  3  their  normal  move¬ ment  rate.
When  the  party  descends  into  this passage  from  either  stairway  (the  7b or  8j  stairway),  they  see  a  humanoid creature  crawling  towards  them.  If the  party  entered  the  passage  from stairway  7b,  the  creature  is  advanc¬ ing  from  the  bottom  of  stairway  8j;  if the  party  entered  the  passage  from stairway  8j,  the  creature  is  advancing from  the  bottom  of  stairway  7b.  The creature  has  gray,  leathery  skin.  A hateful  light  burns  in  its  eyes.  This  is  a juju  zombie,  a  former  treasure hunter  who  was  transformed  by  Ice- lia.
Ju-ju  zombie:  Int  low;  AL  NE;  AC  6; MV  9  (crawling  rate  3);  HD  3  +  12; hp  32;  THACO  15;  #AT  1;  Dmg  3d4; SA  armed  with  necklace  of missiles;  SD  can  climb  walls  as  a thief  (92%);  strikes  as  a  6  HD  mon¬ ster;  only  harmed  by  +1  or  better magical  weapons  (only  edged  or cleaving  weapons  inflict  normal damage,  blunt  and  piercing  weap¬ ons  cause  half  damage);  immune  to all  mind  affecting  spells,  electricity, magic  missiles,  poisons,  cold-based spells;  immune  to  sleep,  charm, hold,  and  death  magic  spells;  SZ  M; ML  special;  XP  975.
The  ju-ju  zombie  wears  a  necklace of  missiles  with  5  missile  globes  (one 10  dice  and  four  4  Dice  fireballs).  As soon  as  the  zombie  sees  the  party,  it uses  its  necklace  to  cast  fireballs  at them,  once  per  round.  It  continues  to crawl  towards  them  and  blast  fire¬ balls  until  all  5  missiles  have  been  ex¬ pended;  it  then  attacks  with  its  claws. The  zombie  fights  to  the  death  and
pursues  relentlessly;  the  zombie  is able  to  open  the  golden  doors  and trap  doors.  However,  if  the  PCs  elude the  zombie  for  10  consecutive rounds,  it  returns  to  area  8b.
8d.  Blocked  passage:  Pebble¬ sized  chunks  of  violet  cloud  sub¬ stance  completely  block  both  ends  of this  passage  section.  Trapped  be¬ tween  the  blockages  is  a  cloud  of  col¬ orless  poison  gas  that  smells  like sulphur  and  cinnamon.
A  PC  who  digs  through  the  cloud chunks  for  15  rounds  clears  a  passage large  enough  for  the  party  to  pro¬ ceed.  After  digging  for  two  rounds, the  PC  smells  an  odor  of  sulphur  and cinnamon  seeping  from  the  opposite side  of  the  passage.  The  fumes  aren't strong  enough  to  cause  damage  at this  point.  However,  if  the  PC  con¬ tinues  to  dig,  the  fumes  become stronger.  After  five  more  rounds  of digging,  the  gas  cloud  comes  billow¬ ing  through,  subjecting  all  PCs  in  the tunnel  to  its  noxious  fumes.
PCs  who  save  vs.  poison  are  unaf¬ fected  by  the  gas.  Those  who  fail  are debilitated  for  the  next  4d6  hours. During  that  time,  all  abilities  are  re¬ duced  by  half;  apply  all  appropriate adjustments  to  attacks,  damage,  ar¬ mor  class,  and  so  on  from  the  low¬ ered  ability  scores.  Also,  victims' normal  movement  rates  are  halved, and  they  cannot  heal  by  normal  or magical  means.  Neutralize  poison neutralizes  all  gas  effects.
One  hour  after  the  gas  seeps through  either  blockage,  it  dissipates into  the  walls;  both  the  broken  block¬ age  and  the  gas  cloud  magically  reap¬ pear  one  hour  later.  Note  that  if  one blockage  is  destroyed  and  the  gas  dis¬ sipates,  the  party  can  dig  through  the other  blockage  with  no  risk,  provid¬ ing  they  do  so  within  an  hour.
8e.  Trapdoor:  If  the  PCs  listen  at the  mist  door  on  the  east  wall,  they can  hear  the  faint  cries  of  what sounds  like  an  agonized  woman.  The source  of  the  cries  is  the  groaning spirit  in  area  8h.  Otherwise,  this room  is  identical  to  room  8b.
8f.  Cloud  chamber:  This  dome¬ shaped  chamber  is  about  100'  in  di-
37
P
!
L
Chapter*  3:  Lee?cbes  a nd  Battertpfes
ameter  and  has  an  80'  ceiling.  The dome  is  made  of  the  violet  cloud  ma¬ terial,  as  is  a  pathway  that  leads  to  six doorways.  The  remainder  of  the  floor is  covered  with  clumps  of  white cloud-like  material  that  looks  like  cot¬ ton.  Wisps  of  greenish  clouds  drift near  the  ceiling.
Any  PC  who  steps  or  falls  in  the white  clouds  immediately  begins  to sink;  execute  the  Sinking  Routine (above).
The  odor  of  burning  sugar  seeps from  the  mist  door  and  the  golden door  leading  to  area  8g;  PCs  also  hear what  sound  like  the  cries  of  an  ago¬ nized  woman  coming  from  behind  all the  east  doors.  The  source  of  the  cries is  the  groaning  spirit  in  area  8h.  The odor  of  lilacs  seeps  from  the  door¬ ways  leading  to  areas  8j  and  8k.
Five  rounds  after  the  first  PC  enters 8f,  the  green  clouds  near  the  ceiling begin  to  rumble  and  darken.  Five rounds  later,  greenish  rain  begins  to fall.  All  characters  exposed  to  the  rain for  a  total  of  three  or  more  rounds must  make  a  Constitution  check.  PCs who  fail  become  nauseated,  and  their heads  throb;  they  make  all  attacks with  a  -1  penalty  for  the  rest  of  the day.  PCs  able  to  keep  themselves  com¬ pletely  dry  (such  as  a  warrior  holding a  shield  overhead,  or  a  wizard  using fabricate  to  create  an  umbrella)  are immune  to  the  effects  of  the  rain.  The rain  persists  for  an  hour  after  the  last PC  has  left  area  8f;  the  rain  resumes five  rounds  after  any  PC  enters  this area  again.
8g.  Brown  mist:  This  passage  is thick  with  a  dense  brownish  fog  that smells  like  burnt  sugar.  The  fog causes  no  damage,  but  obscures  all sight,  normal  and  ultravision,  to  2'. The  magical  fog  is  confined  to  area  8g and  cannot  be  dissipated  by  any means  short  of  a  wish.
The  agonized  cries  grow  louder  as the  party  nears  area  8h.
8h.  Banshee  lair:  When  the  party comes  within  20'  of  the  opening  to this  room,  a  luminous  phantasm  re¬ sembling  a  withered  crone  with  wild and  unkempt  hair  and  a  dress  of  tat¬ tered  rags  comes  shrieking  out  of  the
mist,  her  long  claws  raking  the  air and  her  jaws  snapping.
This  groaning  spirit  was  in  life  an elf  assistant  of  Icelia.  When  the  elf refused  to  obey  a  direct  order,  Icelia killed  her,  later  transforming  her  into a  groaning  spirit.  The  spirit  is  eter¬ nally  bound  to  the  stronghold, charged  with  destroying  all  in¬ truders.
Groaning  spirit:  Int  exceptional; AL  CE;  AC  0;  MV  15;  HD  7;  hP  50; THACO  13;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld8 (touch);  SA  wail  once  per  day  (all those  within  30'  must  save  vs. death  magic  or  die  immediately); any  creature  who  sees  her  must save  vs.  spells  or  flee  in  fear  (flee  in terror  for  10  rounds,  50%  likely  to drop  any  items  carried  in  their hands);  SD  invulnerable  to  weap¬ ons  of  less  than  +  1  enchantment; immune  to  charm,  sleep,  and  hold spells,  and  to  cold-based  and  elec¬ trical  attacks;  killed  by  dispel  evil; MR  50%;  SZ  M;  ML  13;  XP  4,000.
The  spirit  attacks  the  party  first with  her  wail,  following  with  touch attacks  directed  at  any  wail  survi¬ vors.  After  making  a  few  touch  at¬ tacks,  she  retreats  to  area  8j,  hoping to  lure  the  PCs  inside  this  poisonous area  (she  is  immune  to  the  lilac  poi¬ son).  If  she  loses  half  her  hit  points, she  tries  to  flee  to  area  8f,  then  west into  the  labyrinth.  If  cornered,  she fights  to  the  death;  otherwise,  she  re¬ treats  to  a  distant  region  of  the stronghold.  At  your  option,  the groaning  spirit  may  wait  a  day  to  re¬ cover  her  wail  attack,  then  track  the party  and  ambush  them  at  an  oppor¬ tune  moment.
8i.  Soggy  section:  This  section  of the  corridor  is  filled  with  the  same brown  mist  as  in  area  8g.  The  section between  the  dotted  lines  is  indistin¬ guishable  from  the  floor  elsewhere  in this  corridor,  but  actually  contains several  patches  of  soggy  material.  For every  round  spent  in  the  area,  each PC  has  a  cumulative  20%  chance  of sinking;  execute  the  Sinking  Routine for  each  sinking  PC.
8j.  Lilac  mist:  A  thin  yellow  mist that  reeks  of  lilacs  hangs  in  the  air  of this  corridor.  The  magical  mist  is  con¬ fined  to  area  8j  and  cannot  be  dissi¬ pated  by  any  means  short  of  a  wish. Any  PC  who  spends  one  round  ex¬ posed  to  the  poisonous  mist  must save  vs.  poison  or  die;  a  successful save  still  means  3d6  damage.
The  poison  is  derived  from  the  S3/A chemical  that  the  party  may  have learned  about  in  Chapter  1.  A  2C/XA pellet,  available  in  Chapter  1,  negates the  effects  of  the  mist.
8k.  Phony  mist  corridor:  The mist  in  this  corridor  looks  and  smells like  the  lilac  mist  in  area  8j.  However, it  is  actually  the  result  of  a  permanent illusion  and  is  harmless.  The  illusory mist  is  confined  to  this  corridor.
One  round  after  any  PC  has  crossed any  of  the  servitor  locations  indicated on  the  map,  black  clawed  hands emerge  from  the  floor  at  all  four  ser¬ vitor  locations.  Humanoid  creatures with  the  heads  of  cockroaches  bear¬ ing  black  antennae  and  bulbous  gold¬ en  eyeballs  begin  pulling  themselves up  through  the  floor.
The  creatures  are  lichling  servitors, former  human  intruders  murdered by  Icelia,  then  transformed  to  attend to  the  needs  of  the  lichlings  and  guard the  stronghold.  The  servitors  were concealed  in  the  floor  of  this  passage, ready  to  destroy  any  trespassers.
Lichling  servitors  (4):  Int  semi;  AL CE;  AC  2;  MV  12;  HD  6;  hP  45; THACO  15;  #AT  2;  Dmg  2d6/2d6 (claws);  SD  can  only  be  struck  by +  1  or  better  magical  weapons;  im¬ mune  to  poison,  charm,  sleep,  en~ feeblement,  polymorph,  fear,  cold, electricity,  insanity,  and  death spells;  SZ  L;  ML  15;  XP  975.
It  takes  a  full  round  for  the  servi¬ tors  to  pull  themselves  from  the  floor. During  this  time  they  can  be  attacked but  are  unable  to  defend  themselves. Once  free,  the  servitors  shamble  to¬ wards  the  party,  intent  on  destroying random  PCs.  The  servitors  fight  to the  death,  pursuing  as  necessary;  the servitors  are  able  to  easily  open  gold-
38
z
ChapT&n  S:  Leeches  and  Batter^pfes
n
X_
en  doors.  If  the  party  eludes  the  servi¬ tors  for  10  consecutive  rounds,  the surviving  servitors  return  to  area  8k and  again  conceal  themselves  in  the floor.
8L.  Pudding  lair:  If  the  party comes  within  10'  of  this  chamber,  two massive  black  blobs  ooze  from  the chamber  opening,  hovering  a  few inches  from  the  ground.  The  crea¬ tures  resemble  undulating  clusters  of bubbling  blisters  and  wet  cotton.
The  creatures  are  a  magically blended  combination  of  black  pud¬ dings  and  the  cloud-like  material  of the  Corridors  of  Mists;  the  creatures have  all  the  properties  of  normal black  puddings,  with  an  increased  ar¬ mor  class  and  magic  resistance,  along with  the  ability  to  fly.
Modified  black  puddings  (2):  Int
animal;  AC  -1;  MV  12,  FI  12  (C); HD  10;  hp  68  each;  THACO  11;  #AT 1;  Dmg  3d8;  SA  dissolves  metal (chain  mail  dissolves  in  one  round, plate  mail  in  two;  each  magical "plus"  increases  the  time  required to  dissolve  the  metal  by  one round);  SD  immune  to  acid,  cold, and  poison;  lightning  bolts  and blows  from  weapons  divides  in half,  each  with  statistics  of  original pudding;  fire  and  magic  missiles cause  normal  damage;  MR  50%;  SZ L;  ML  17;  XP  6,000.
The  creatures,  intending  to  devour the  party,  pursue  the  PCs  anywhere in  the  passages  leading  from  8L.  If  the party  retreats  through  any  of  the doorways,  the  creatures  withdraw into  8L;  the  creatures  then  seep through  the  cracks  in  the  north  end of  their  lair  (8m)  and  hide  among  the dark  clouds  on  the  floor  of  area  8p. Likewise,  if  a  creature  loses  half  or more  of  its  hit  points,  it  retreats  into 8L  and  seeps  through  the  8m  cracks to  hide  in  the  8p  cloud  floor.
8m.  Cracks:  This  passage  leads  to a  dead  end  with  several  inch-wide cracks  in  the  wall.  Beyond  the  cracks is  a  short  tunnel  that  leads  to  the cloud  floor  of  8p.
8n.  Spongy  area:  Several  small
black  lumps  litter  the  floor;  the  lumps feel  like  greasy  cotton.  The  clumps are  flakes  from  the  bodies  of  the  pud¬ ding  creatures  in  8L.  Otherwise,  this is  identical  to  area  8i.
8o.  Archway/teleporter:  Except that  the  archway  is  made  of  a  violet substance  that  feels  like  dried sponge,  this  is  identical  to  room  6.
8p.  Cloud  chamber:  This  dome¬ shaped  room  is  identical  to  8f,  except that  the  floor  is  composed  entirely  of dark  gray  cloud-like  clumps,  and  the clouds  near  the  ceiling  are  black.  The only  door  is  on  the  east  side  of  the dome,  centered  in  the  wall  about  70' from  the  floor.
Just  above  the  door,  a  shimmering image  of  a  10' -long  key  hovers  in  the air.  The  key  appears  to  be  made  of  vi¬ olet  mist.  PCs  who  can't  fly  or  teleport must  climb  the  walls  to  reach  the door  and  the  key.
The  entire  floor  is  similar  to  the Spongy  Areas  (area  8i  and  8n):  For every  round  spent  on  a  particular section  of  the  floor,  a  PC  has  a  20%  cu¬ mulative  chance  of  sinking  (requiring the  Sinking  Routine).  If  the  pudding creatures  retreated  here  (from  area 8L),  they  lurk  beneath  the  spaces  of the  cloud  clumps,  about  10'  down, near  the  room's  center.
Three  rounds  after  the  first  PC  en¬ ters  8p,  the  black  clouds  near  the  ceil¬ ing  begin  to  rumble  and  crackle  with static  electricity.  Three  rounds  later, lightning  begins  to  crack;  for  every round  thereafter,  roll  ld6:
1-4  —  No  bolt  hits  a  character.
5  — A  bolt  singes  a  random  charac¬ ter,  causing  2d6  damage  (save  vs. spells  for  half  damage).
6  — A  bolt  directly  hits  a  random character,  causing  6d6  damage  (save vs.  spells  for  half  damage).  The  light¬ ning  storm  persists  for  an  hour  after the  last  PC  has  left  area  8p.  The  storm begins  again  three  rounds  after  any PC  re-enters  area  8p.
As  soon  as  the  lightning  storm  be¬ gins,  the  modified  black  puddings seep  from  the  floor  (assuming  they made  it  here  from  8L).  If  the  party hasn't  yet  encountered  the  puddings, assume  the  creatures  have  been  wait¬
ing  here  all  along.  The  creatures  un¬ dulate  through  the  air,  attacking random  PCs.  The  creatures  fight  to the  death;  if  the  PCs  leave  this  room, the  creatures  withdraw  through  the floor  and  return  to  area  8L.  (Note  that the  lightning  may  strike  a  pudding  in¬ stead  of  a  PC;  if  so,  the  pudding  splits in  two.)
The  violet  key  is  merely  an  image  of a  key  and  has  no  physical  properties of  any  kind.  Nothing  but  the  violet cube  from  area  7a  can  transform  the image  into  an  actual  physical  key. Such  is  the  nature  of  the  enchant¬ ment  that  the  mist  key  even  resists the  power  of  a  wish;  at  your  discre¬ tion,  a  wish  might  change  the  mist key  to  a  real  key  for  a  limited  time  — say,  an  hour  or  less  — after  which  it changes  back  to  mist  and  instantly  re¬ turns  to  this  area.
If  a  PC  brings  the  violet  cube  within 5'  of  the  key  image,  the  image  begins to  shrink  and  darken  in  color.  Two rounds  later,  the  key  image  is  swept into  the  cube  as  if  drawn  by  a  power¬ ful  suction;  the  cube  disappears,  and the  PC  holds  a  6"  key  made  of  violet crystal.  This  is  one  of  the  keys  neces¬ sary  to  unlock  the  golden  door  in  area 33.
9.  Mosaic  Room
This  room  is  similar  to  area  3.  As  in area  3,  each  mosaic  diagram  appears to  show  a  section  of  a  corridor  lead¬ ing  to  a  key,  but  is  actually  intended  to trick  the  unwary.  Diagram  9a  and arch  9c  are  made  of  black  granite.  Di¬ agram  9b  and  arch  9d  are  made  of ivory.  The  diagrams  and  arches  are icy  cold  to  the  touch.  Above  the  arch¬ es  is  a  message  spelled  out  in  a  patch- work  mosaic  of  ivory  and  black granite.  The  message  reads:  THREE KEYS  FOR  THE  GOLD,  TWO  EYES FOR  THE  IVORY.
(As  before,  the  first  phrase  means that  three  keys  are  necessary  to  un¬ lock  the  golden  door  leading  to  the treasure  chamber.  The  second  phrase means  that  the  PCs  must  take  two crystal  eyes  —  available  in  area  20  — to area  30.  From  area  30,  the  party  can
39
T2Z
Chapter*  3:  Leeches  a red
n
gain  access  to  area  31  where  the  ivory key  is  located.)
If  the  PC  pass  beneath  arch  8d,  they hear  a  desperate  whisper  in  their heads  saying,  "Bring  me  my  eyes  ..."
1 0.  STajrujay
This  granite  stairway  winds  deep into  the  earth.  Mid-way  on  the  stairs sprawls  the  corpse  of  a  human  male (10a).  The  corpse  has  been  savagely mutilated,  as  if  rent  by  powerful claws.  The  corpse  clutches  a  short sword  in  its  hand,  which  the  PCs  may take  if  they  like.  There  is  nothing  else of  interest  on  the  corpse.  The  corpse is  that  of  a  human  treasure  hunter, killed  by  the  lichlings  described  be¬ low.
About  20'  west  of  the  bottom  of  the stairs,  two  lichlings  are  dragging  a  3'- long  gold  rod  imbedded  with  bits  of emerald.  The  lichlings  are  dragging the  rod  to  the  nearest  lichling  hole (10b).  If  the  PCs  don't  draw  attention to  themselves,  and  if  they  don't  attack the  lichlings,  the  monsters  drag  the rod  into  hole  10b  and  vanish;  eventu¬ ally  the  rod  is  deposited  in  the  trea¬ sure  room  (area  34).  However,  if  the PCs  make  their  presence  known,  or  if they  attack  the  lichlings,  the  lichlings drop  the  rod  and  soar  towards  the party,  attacking  random  PCs  with their  fangs.  The  lichlings  fight  to  the death  and  pursue  if  necessary.
Though  the  now-deceased  treasure hunter  mistakenly  believed  the  rod would  bring  him  good  luck,  it  has  no magical  properties.  The  rod  is  worth 5,000  gp.
11.  Gizavb  Chamber
The  sounds  of  hissing  steam  and bubbling  water  echo  in  this  vast black  cave.  It's  dimly  lit  by  patches of  glowing  fungi  on  the  chamber walls.  The  air  reeks  with  the  odor of  rotten  meat.
A  waterfall  of  thick  black  liquid falls  over  a  ledge  on  the  north  wall.
It  splashes  into  a  dark  stream  that winds  around  the  chamber  and ends  in  a  small  pool.  Wisps  of  va¬ por  rise  from  the  bubbling  stream. Rivulets  lead  from  the  stream  to  an open  grave  centered  in  the  cham¬ ber.  It  looks  like  there  is  writing  en¬ graved  on  the  black  tombstone.
The  black  liquid  in  the  waterfall (11a),  the  stream  (lib),  the  ground pool  (11c),  and  the  pool  on  top  of  the ledge  (lid)  is  lichling  fluid.  Icelia  uses this  liquid  for  various  purposes  in breeding  new  lichlings.  Not  inciden¬ tally,  it  also  serves  to  terrorize  trea¬ sure  hunters.
The  fluid  is  extremely  hot,  scalding anyone  who  barely  touches  it  (ld4 damage)  and  severely  burning  any¬ one  immersed  in  it  (3d6  hit  points  of damage  per  round).  The  pools  and stream  are  waist-deep;  the  stream  is 5'  wide.  Fluid  in  the  ground  pool  (11c) seeps  into  the  earth,  preventing  the pool  from  overflowing.
The  grave  (lie)  is  6'  deep.  A  steep stairway  of  black  granite  leads  to  the bottom.  To  all  but  the  Chosen  PC,  the grave  appears  to  be  empty,  and  the headstone  is  blank.  However,  the Chosen  PC  sees  an  ivory  key  at  the bottom  of  the  grave  and  his  or  her own  name  inscribed  in  the  head¬ stone.  The  key  and  the  name  are  illu¬ sions;  the  Chosen  PC  cannot disbelieve  these  powerful  illusions.
If  any  PC  other  than  the  Chosen  PC enters  the  grave,  there  is  no  effect. The  Chosen  PC,  entering  the  grave, falls  unconscious  upon  reaching  the bottom  (no  saving  throw).  Scalding lichling  fluid  immediately  begins  to rise  from  the  bottom  of  the  grave,  fill¬ ing  the  grave  at  the  rate  of  one  foot per  round;  the  Chosen  PC  (and  any¬ one  else  in  the  grave)  suffers  3d6 damage  per  round  from  immersion  in the  lichling  fluid.
The  Chosen  PC  doesn't  float  in  the rising  lichling  fluid,  remaining  in¬ stead  on  the  bottom  of  the  grave.  The
Chosen  PC  continues  to  suffer  3d6 damage  per  round  until  rescued  by companions.  Note  that  the  Chosen  PC also  risks  drowning  in  the  lichling  flu¬ id.  (See  the  Special  Underwater  Rules in  the  Introduction.)
The  lichling  fluid  stops  when  it reaches  the  top  of  the  grave.  The  lich¬ ling  fluid  remains  in  the  grave  for  a full  day,  or  until  the  Chosen  PC  is  res¬ cued,  whereupon  the  fluid  recedes into  the  ground.
A  gentle  granite  slope  leads  to  the pool  at  the  top  of  the  ledge  (lid).  If the  PCs  investigate  the  ledge,  they  see a  5'  high  and  12'  wide  opening  in  the north  wall  (Ilf).  A  stream  of  lichling fluid  pours  from  this  opening  into  the ledge  pool.
12.  Stream  Passage
This  winding  passage,  reeking  of rotting  meat,  slopes  upward  to  the north.  It  is  bisected  by  a  3'-wide,  3'- deep  stream  of  steaming  lichling  flu¬ id.  See  area  11  for  damage  from  the fluid.
After  the  party  moves  about  20' north  of  the  waterfall  pool  (lid),  a ghostly  image  of  a  bald-headed  man shimmers  into  view  in  front  of  them; the  image  doesn't  appear  if  the  party has  already  been  to  area  15.  The  im¬ age  has  pleading  blue  eyes  and  a  curly blonde  beard,  and  wears  a  long  robe covered  with  small  circles.  The  image beckons  the  party  to  head  north,  then vanishes.  (This  is  an  image  of  Amry Wolover).  The  party  experiences  this vision  only  once.
13.  Geyseri
Centered  in  this  40'-diameter  ca¬ vern  is  a  10'  pit,  surrounded  by  a wide  ring  of  sticky  granite  that  is slightly  warm  to  the  touch.  The  air over  the  pit  ripples  with  heat.
The  pit  is  actually  a  lichling  fluid geyser  that  erupts  every  hour.  Once the  party  enters  the  cavern,  roll  ld20; this  indicates  the  number  of  minutes before  the  next  eruption.  One  round of  rumbling  precedes  an  eruption.  An
40
z
riczac
Chapter  3:  Leeches  and  Butterflies
i
i^_
JL
eruption  sprays  a  blast  of  scalding lichling  fluid  from  the  pit.  All  PCs within  10'  of  the  pit  suffer  3d6  dam¬ age;  all  those  more  than  10'  from  the pit  but  still  inside  the  cavern  suffer 2d6  damage.
If  the  geyser  doesn't  erupt,  a  PC within  3'  of  the  edge  of  the  geyser has  a  5%  chance  of  slipping  and  fall¬ ing  in,  suffering  6d6  damage  from landing  in  the  hot  surface  of  packed dried  fluid  80'  below.
14.  Husk  Alcove
This  small  alcove  is  empty,  except for  a  6" -long  object  on  the  floor  that looks  like  a  black  cockroach  shell, cracked  and  chipped.  Two  arm bones,  each  about  3"  long,  extend from  the  shell.  One  of  the  bones  is broken  off  in  the  center;  the  other ends  in  a  bony  hand  with  five  bony fingers.  The  arm,  hand,  and  finger bones  resemble  those  of  a  miniature human.
These  are  the  remains  of  a  defec¬ tive  lichling  that  crawled  here  from area  17  and  died.
1 5.  Image  Pool
The  passage  opens  into  a  large  ca¬ vern  filled  with  a  bubbling  pool  of black  fluid  and  a  powerful  odor  of rotting  meat.  Streams  of  the  liquid trickle  from  cracks  in  the  west wall  and  empty  into  the  pool.
Without  warning,  the  pool  starts to  boil.  A  whirlpool  widens  over the  surface,  going  faster  and faster.
The  black  liquid  is  lichling  fluid.  If the  party  leaves  the  cavern,  the whirlpool  subsides,  and  the  surface becomes  calm  in  five  rounds.
Otherwise,  if  the  party  remains  in the  cavern  for  two  rounds,  a  hazy  im¬ age  rises  from  the  whirlpool  and  hov¬ ers  in  mid-air  — the  ghostly  figure  of  a bald-headed  man  with  pleading  blue eyes  and  a  curly  blonde  beard.  The man  wears  a  long  robe  covered  with
small  circles.  This  is  an  image  of Amry  Wolover.
The  image  opens  its  mouth  to speak,  and  the  party  hears  a  voice  in their  heads,  as  soft  as  an  autumn wind.  "Come  to  the  heart .  .  .  come  to the  heart  .  .  ."  The  image  then  disap¬ pears,  and  the  pool  is  suddenly  calm. If  the  PCs  return  to  this  area,  the  pool remains  still;  they  will  not  experience the  image  a  second  time.
The  lichling  fluid  pool  is  about  101 deep  and  contains  nothing  of  inter¬ est.  (See  area  11  for  damage  resulting from  contact  with  the  fluid.)  The cracks  in  the  north  wall  lead  to  tiny passage  that  wind  for  miles  into  the earth.
Both  passages  leading  from  the  ca¬ vern  slant  down  from  the  pool.
16.  The  Thlwg  on  The Shone
The  air  in  this  cavern  smells  like  a sickening  combination  of  sour  milk and  rotten  meat.  A  mixture  of  lichling fluid  (from  the  stream  leading  from the  pool  in  area  15)  and  milky  liquid with  yellowish  lumps  (from  the stream  pouring  down  from  the  pool in  area  17)  fills  the  oblong  pool  cen¬ tered  in  the  cavern.  A  5'-wide  stream of  the  lichling  fluid  and  milky  liquid mixture  flows  east.
The  3'-deep  pool  emits  the  foul odor  of  rotten  meat  and  sour  milk, but  causes  no  damage.  The  area  17 liquid  cools  the  lichling  fluid  from  ar¬ ea  15,  while  the  lichling  fluid  dilutes the  area  17  liquid,  making  it  less  nox¬ ious.  There  is  nothing  of  interest  in the  pool;  the  lumps  are  masses  of  or¬ ganic  tissue.
A  small  black  object  can  be  seen  on the  north  shore  of  the  pool,  moving slowly  towards  area  17.  Closer  exam¬ ination  reveals  the  object  to  be  a  6" cockroach  shell  with  a  pair  of  ragged gauzy  wings  and  a  single  3" -long  arm bone,  ending  in  a  bony  hand  with  five fingers;  the  bones  resemble  those  of  a tiny  human.  The  object  drags  itself along  the  floor  with  its  hand,  at  a movement  rate  of  1.  This  is  a  defec¬
tive  lichling,  still  alive,  that  acciden¬ tally  crawled  here  from  area  17  and is  now  trying  to  find  its  way  back.
If  the  party  follows  the  thing,  it  leads them  to  area  17;  the  lichling  crawls  in¬ to  the  pool  and  disappears.  If  the  PCs disturb  it  in  any  way,  it  flutters  into  the air,  then  makes  a  beeline  towards  the nearest  PC,  flying  with  a  rate  of  3.  Un¬ less  the  thing  is  swatted  out  of  the  air or  destroyed,  it  grabs  and  claws  the targeted  PC;  the  targeted  victim  suffers ld2  damage  per  round.  The  lichling  at¬ tacks  until  destroyed.  Ripping  it  free  of its  targeted  victim  (which  any  PC  can do)  automatically  pulls  its  arm  off  and kills  it;  otherwise,  assume  it  is  AC  3  and has  3  hp.
17.  De&b  Pool
The  odor  of  sour  milk  and  rotten eggs  in  this  cavern  is  so  strong  it makes  your  eyes  water.  In  the  ca¬ vern  is  a  pool  of  milky  liquid  thick with  yellowish  lumps.  There  are mounds  of  black  shells  piled  in  the pool  and  along  its  shores.  Tiny bones  and  wings  protrude  from the  piles.  A  few  of  the  bones  and wings  are  twitching.
Streams  of  the  milky  liquid,  thick with  yellow  lumps  and  an  occa¬ sional  black  shell,  come  from cracks  in  the  north  wall  and  spill into  the  pool.
The  cracks  in  the  north  wall  lead  to small  passages  that  wind  for  miles  in¬ to  the  earth,  ending  in  the  modified brain  of  Icelia's  husk  (see  area  13, Chapter  4).  Defective  lichlings, spawned  in  the  brain  area,  are  dis¬ charged  into  the  passages  and  depos¬ ited  in  this  pool,  where  they eventually  rot  away.
The  yellow  lumps  are  masses  of  or¬ ganic  tissue,  discharged  in  area  12  of Chapter  4  along  with  the  defective lichlings.  The  mounds  of  black  shells are  piles  of  defective  lichlings,  each about  6"  long.  There  are  all  kinds  of defects:  Some  have  only  bony  arms, others  have  only  legs.  Some  are  limb-
41
fs
~L
'XZZ3C
Chapter*  3:  Leeches  and  Batteaplies
n
JL
|
less,  having  only  tiny  human-like skulls  with  long  fangs.  A  few  only have  a  pair  of  ragged  gauzy  wings. Most  are  dead,  though  a  few  still  re¬ tain  a  slight  spark  of  life,  causing  their wings  and  limbs  to  twitch.
Every  PC  who  enters  this  cavern must  make  a  Constitution  check;  fail¬ ure  means  violent  nausea  from  the stench,  ld4  damage,  and  a  fall  to  the ground,  where  the  character  cannot act  for  the  next  2d4  rounds.
The  pool  is  about  10'  deep;  PCs  im¬ mersed  in  the  pool  suffer  ld6  damage per  round  of  exposure  to  the  foul, corrosive  liquid.
The  first  PC  who  comes  within  3'  of a  defective  pile  notices  the  shells twitching  more  violently,  rocking back  and  forth,  and  vibrating  their wings.  If  the  PC  doesn't  immediately move  away  from  the  pile,  a  horde  of defective  lichlings  swoops  from  the pile  and  swarms  over  the  PC.  The mindless  defectives  attack  for  three rounds.  They  inflict  damage  on  the targeted  PC  as  follows:  round  1  — 3d6 points;  round  2  — 2d6  (about  a  third fall  harmlessly  to  the  ground);  round 3  —  ld6  (another  third  fall).  After three  rounds,  the  defectives  fall away,  lifeless  and  without  energy.
If  the  victim  remains  still  and  does not  defend  against  the  defectives, halve  the  damage.  Similarly,  if  the  vic¬ tim  remains  still  and  one  or  more companions  try  to  fight  off  the  in¬ sects,  halve  the  damage  again.  How¬ ever,  if  the  victim  moves,  the defectives  become  more  agitated  and increase  their  assault;  attempts  to  at¬ tack  the  defectives  have  no  significant effect  on  the  damage  they  inflict.  The defectives  are  vulnerable  to  the  rod of  immobile  insects  from  Chapter  1.
Only  one  PC  is  attacked  by  the  de¬ fectives,  regardless  of  any  subse¬ quent  actions  the  party  takes.
18.  Grzeesj  Stream
As  the  passage  winds  east,  the stream  becomes  dark  green  and  less malodorous.  The  party  notices  thin streams  of  green  water  seeping  from cracks  along  the  northern  walls  of
the  passage.  Continuing  east,  the  wa¬ ter  contains  fewer  and  fewer  traces of  lichling  fluid  (from  area  15)  and yellow  lumps  (from  area  17).
The  green  liquid  smells  like  sea  wa¬ ter  and  is  undrinkable.  The  green  wa¬ ter  comes  from  sources  deep  inside the  earth;  its  color  comes  from  vari¬ ous  minerals  and  salts.
If  the  PCs  haven't  yet  been  to  area 15,  they  experience  the  vision  of  Wo- lover  (see  area  15)  when  they  reach the  intersection  of  areas  18  and  19; the  vision  beckons  them  west  (to¬ wards  area  15).  The  PCs  experience this  vision  only  once.
19.  SDcky  STaiRUJAY
At  the  south  end  of  this  passage  is  a sticky  stairway  rising  up  to  a  mist doorway.  The  stairway  is  similar  to the  one  in  area  10,  save  that  there  are two  bodies  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs with  four  lichlings  atop  them.  The lichlings  attack  with  ferocious  speed, gaining  a  -1  bonus  to  Initiative  rolls.
Lichling  (4):  Int  animal;  AL  CE;  AC 1;  MV  3;  FI  24  (B);  HD  2  +  2;  hp  15; THACO  19;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld6  (bite); SD  can  only  be  struck  by  +1  or better  magical  weapons;  immune to  charm,  sleep,  enfeeblement, polymorph,  cold,  electricity,  fear- insanity,  and  death  spells;  SZ  S;  ML 19;  XP  270.  (See  page  63  for  more about  the  lichling.)
The  bodies  are  of  two  treasure hunters  whose  luck  got  them  quite far,  but  not  far  enough.  One,  clad  in now  rent  chainmail,  carries  a  scimi¬ tar  +3  which  constantly  glows  a bright  emerald  green  when  un¬ sheathed  (equivilent  to  torch  light). His  companion,  a  female  mage,  wears a  ring  of  jumping  and  she  carries  a beaker  of  plentiful  potions  in  her backpack.  There  is  nothing  else  of  in¬ terest  here.
20.  BaTTLe  Room
If  the  PCs  listen  on  the  west  side  of the  mist  door  leading  to  this  room,
they  hear  the  sounds  of  loud  rum¬ bling,  as  of  boulders  striking  the ground,  interspersed  with  hisses  and low  grunts.  If  the  PCs  enter  the  room, read  the  following.
The  packed  earth  floor  of  this  huge granite  cavern  is  lit  by  the  soft green  glow  of  fungus  covering  the walls.  Thick  granite  stalagmites rise  from  the  floor;  long  stalactites drip  from  the  ceiling.  There  is brown  sand  in  front  of  a  wide opening  on  the  east  wall  of  the  ca¬ vern.  Two  small  pits  open  in  the floor  near  a  pair  of  mist  doors  in the  north  wall.
In  the  center  of  the  room  you  see two  huge  serpentine  monsters locked  in  combat,  writhing  on  the floor  in  a  tangle  of  coils.
One  creature  looks  like  a  40'- long  violet  worm  with  a  long  sting¬ er  on  the  end  of  its  tail.  The  worm lashes  its  tail  at  its  opponent  — a  501 slug  with  shiny  gray  skin.  The  slug retaliates  by  spewing  a  stream  of sizzling  liquid  at  the  worm.  The wounds  on  both  creatures  disap¬ pear  a  moment  after  they  are  in¬ flicted.
On  the  back  of  each  creature, you  can  just  barely  see  a  cloudy  hu¬ manoid  figure.  The  surfaces  of  the figures  crackle  with  blue  sparks.  A single  eyeball  made  of  bright  blue crystal  is  centered  in  the  head  of each  figure.  The  figures  kick  their mounts,  urging  them  to  attack their  opponents.
The  cavern  ceiling  rises  about  150'. The  stalactites  and  stalagmites  are solid  granite,  averaging  10'  wide  and 30'  long.  The  pits  (20a)  are  lichling  flu¬ id  geysers,  exactly  like  the  one  de¬ scribed  in  area  13.  The  geysers  erupt simultaneously  every  20  minutes; when  the  party  enters  the  cavern, roll  ld20  to  determine  the  number  of minutes  until  the  next  eruption.  The sand  pit  (20b)  is  only  a  few  feet  deep; characters  do  not  sink  in  the  sand,
42
p
f
L
y
jcuzac
Cbaptei*  3:  Leeches  anti  Batter^pJies
n
X
but  their  movement  rate  is  halved when  moving  through  it.
The  cloudy  one-eyed  figures  are wraiths,  loyal  minions  of  Icelia.  Their mounts  are  a  purple  worm  and  a  gi¬ ant  slug.
Wraiths  (2):  Int  very;  AL  LE;  AC  4; MV  12,  FI  24  (B);  HD  5  +  3;  hP  41 each;  THACO  15;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld6; SA  successful  attacks  drain  a  level of  experience  from  victim,  includ¬ ing  hit  points  and  all  abilities  asso¬ ciated  with  that  level  (spells,  etc.); lost  experience  must  be  earned again  or  magically  restored;  SD  im¬ mune  to  all  weapons  except  silver (half  damage)  or  +  1  or  better  (full damage);  immune  to  sleep,  charm, hold,  death,  and  cold-based  spells; SZ  M;  ML  15;  XP  3,000.
Purple  worm  (Lorris  Larr):  Int  non; AL  N;  AC  6;  MV  9;  HD  15;  hp  110; THACO  5;  #AT  1  and  1;  Dmg  2dl2 (bite)  and  2d4  (tail  stinger);  SA  poi¬ son  (victim  hit  by  stinger  must  save vs.  poison  or  die);  swallow  whole (if  attack  roll  exceeds  required score  to  hit  by  4,  victim  is  swallow¬ ed  and  dies  in  six  rounds,  com¬ pletely  digested  in  12  turns; swallowed  victim  can  attack  from the  inside;  interior  of  worm  is  AC 9,  but  each  round,  digestive  juices cause  a  cumulative  -1  penalty  to damage  that  a  swallowed  victim can  cause  worm);  SZ  G;  ML  12;  XP 13,000.
Giant  slug  (Culhane  Ohna):  Int  non; AL  N;  AC  8;  MV  6;  HD  12;  hP  93; THACO  9;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ldl2;  SA spits  acid  once  per  round  (inflicts 4d8  damage,  save  vs.  breath  weap¬ on  for  half  damage;  equipment must  save  vs.  acid  or  be  destroyed; first  spit  has  10%  chance  of  hitting, subsequent  spits  have  a  90%  base chance  of  hitting  at  10  yards,  with a  -10%  penalty  per  additional  10 yards;  if  spit  misses,  the  acid  hits 10'  away  from  the  target  in  a  ran¬ dom  direction);  SD  not  harmed  by blunt  weapons  or  spells  that  cause crushing  or  impact  damage;  SZ  G;
ML  12;  XP  15,000.
The  worm  and  the  slug  originally were  two  human  explorers  named Culhane  Ohna  and  Lorris  Larr,  lured to  the  keep  by  the  promise  of  trea¬ sure.  Icelia  transformed  them  into these  grotesque  creatures,  cursing them  to  fight  each  other  for  all  eterni¬ ty,  goaded  on  by  the  wraiths.  While  in these  forms,  Culhane  and  Lorris  have no  memories  of  their  former  lives.
The  emotional  trauma  of  the  em¬ battled  creatures  feeds  the  lichlings. The  wounds  they  inflict  on  each  oth¬ er  instantly  regenerate.  However, damage  inflicted  on  the  worm  and the  slug  by  other  sources  (such  as  the lichling  fluid  geysers  —  which  they avoid  —  and  the  PCs)  is  taken  normal¬ ly.  When  either  creature  is  reduced  to 0  hp,  it  transforms  as  described  be¬ low.
The  slug  and  the  worm  direct  their attacks  against  each  other  and  not against  the  wraiths.  However,  when the  party  enters  the  cavern,  the  crea¬ tures  immediately  become  aware  of their  presence.  The  worm  and  the slug  then  cease  attacking  each  other, and  squirm  towards  the  party.  Goad¬ ed  by  the  wraiths,  the  worm  and  the slug  attack  the  party  relentlessly,  us¬ ing  stinger  and  acid  breath  attacks whenever  possible.  They  also  try  to back  PCs  against  the  cavern  wall  to make  them  easier  to  bite  or  swallow.
The  slug  and  the  worm  don't  go near  the  mist  doors.  Not  only  are  they too  big  to  go  through,  they  avoid  go¬ ing  near  the  lichling  fluid  geysers.  But they  pursue  through  the  20c  opening, which  leads  to  a  dead  end.
If  a  mount  is  reduced  to  0  hp,  its wraith  rider  continues  to  attack,  tak¬ ing  to  the  air  and  trying  to  strike  with its  energy  drain.  The  wraiths  are  im¬ mune  to  the  lichling  fluid  geysers  and pursue  anywhere  in  the  cavern, though  they  will  not  pursue  through a  mist  door.
The  wraiths  are  subject  to  all  vul¬ nerabilities  of  normal  wraiths.  How¬ ever,  if  a  wraith  is  reduced  to  0  hp,  it transforms  into  a  small  puddle  of black  mist,  its  crystal  eye  suspended
in  the  center.  The  mist  smells  like  ran¬ cid  meat  but  is  harmless.  If  a  PC  re¬ moves  the  crystal  eye  (Strength  check to  pry  it  free  of  the  mist),  the  mist  dis¬ sipates  and  the  wraith  is  permanently destroyed.  Otherwise,  if  the  eye  is  un¬ disturbed,  the  wraith  completely  re¬ generates  an  hour  later.  (The  crystal eyes  are  required  by  the  spirit  in  area 31  to  take  the  party  to  area  33).
When  the  worm  or  the  slug  is  re¬ duced  to  0  hp,  it  transforms  into  a shimmering  image  of  a  normal-sized human,  sprawling  helplessly  on  the ground  and  moaning  in  pain.  The  im¬ ages  represent  the  spirits  of  Culhane and  Lorris.  The  slug  becomes  an  im¬ age  of  a  young  man  with  a  long  nose and  a  plump  belly  (Culhane);  the worm  becomes  an  image  of  a  young man  with  a  lean  body  and  long  fin¬ gers  (Lorris).  The  images  can  speak but  can  take  no  other  actions,  includ¬ ing  movement.  Unless  the  PCs  dispel the  images  (see  below),  they  revert back  to  their  creature  forms  in  one hour,  all  hit  points  intact,  and  resume attacking;  if  no  PCs  are  present,  they attack  each  other  as  described  above. They  resume  these  attacks  even  if their  wraith  riders  have  been  de¬ stroyed.
If  the  PCs  approach  the  Culhane  im¬ age  and  speak  to  him,  the  image  re¬ sponds  only  with  incoherent  mutters, along  the  lines  of  "must  feed  the bugs"  and  "the  bugs  are  our  broth¬ ers."
The  PCs  find  the  Lorris  image  to  be more  lucid,  smiling  weakly  at  their approach  and  speaking  in  a  soft  whis¬ per.  Lorris  identifies  himself  and  ex¬ plains  that  he  and  his  partner  are from  the  village  of  Garnerr  (see  Chap¬ ter  1).  The  two  entered  Wolover's Keep  about  50  years  ago  in  search  of treasure.  They  were  intercepted  and killed  by  the  wraiths.  "The  power  of Icelia  transformed  us  into  abomina¬ tions.  We  were  cursed  to  fight  each other  until  the  end  of  time."
Lorris  knows  nothing  about  the  lo¬ cation  of  the  keys  or  the  treasure room,  but  can  supply  the  following information.  If  the  PCs  don't  ask  the right  questions,  Lorris  offers  any  in-
44
formation  you  feel  the  PCs  should have.
•  Icelia  is  responsible  for  the  laby¬ rinth.  All  of  its  minions  are  her  ser¬ vants.  "Icelia  was  a  lich.  She  is something  else  now."  He  doesn't know  what.
•  The  insect  creatures  are  Icelia's spawns.  "They  feed  on  trauma  and fear,  like  a  man  feeds  on  bread  and meat."  Lorris  doesn't  know  any¬ thing  else  about  the  lichlings.
•  The  PCs  are  not  Lorris' s  first would-be  liberators.  "Recently,  a human  carrying  a  green  glowing axe  came  here  and  tried  to  free  us, but  he  lacked  the  magic  to  do  so. He  was  brave  and  kind."  Lorris  has no  further  details,  since  he  trans¬ formed  back  into  the  purple  worm before  the  human  left.  "He  may  be dead  now,  so  far  as  I  know."  Lorris is  describing  Lenzmin  Tier.
When  the  PCs  complete  their  ques¬ tions,  Lorris  begs  them  to  "release our  spirits  and  end  our  torment."  Re¬ leasing  the  spirits  requires  remove curse  or  wish  (one  spell  per  image).  If a  spirit  is  released  in  this  manner,  it disappears  in  a  flash  of  soft  light  and is  never  seen  again.  (At  the  end  of  the adventure,  award  extra  XP  to  the  PC who  freed  the  spirit.)  If  not  freed,  the image  eventually  reverts  to  its  crea¬ ture  form  as  described  above.
21.  Sloping  Passage
This  passage  slopes  down  in  a northwesterly  direction.  The  passage smells  vaguely  of  sea  water  (carried from  the  stream  in  area  18).
22.  Small  Pool
This  is  a  lO'-deep  pool  of  opaque green  water,  similar  to  the  water  in area  18.  A  bulky  black  figure  is sprawled  next  to  the  west  shore.  The creature  has  clawed  feet,  thick  scales, four  eyes,  and  huge  mandibles.  Clos¬ er  inspection  shows  it  to  be  covered with  deep  slashes;  one  mandible hangs  limply  from  its  jaws  and  an  arm
is  grotesquely  twisted.
This  is  a  dead  umber  hulk  from  ar¬ ea  23,  killed  by  a  band  of  undead  ma¬ rine  scrags  when  it  ventured  too close  to  the  pool.  The  scrags  current¬ ly  lurk  in  area  25.
25.  Rough  Passage
This  rough  passage  appears  to  have been  made  by  clawing  and  scooping away  huge  chunks  of  rock.  In  fact, the  passage  was  made  by  five  umber hulks.  The  hulks  investigated  the  pool in  area  22  and  were  attacked  by  a band  of  undead  marine  scrags  (who withdrew  to  area  25).  One  of  the hulks  was  killed;  the  other  four carved  a  new  passage  to  the  east where  they  now  wait  near  the  area- 24  cracks  for  passers-by  to  ambush and  eat.
Unless  the  PCs  have  already  dealt with  the  hulks  in  area  24,  the  hulks lurch  from  the  darkness,  attacking  if the  PCs  enter  the  east  passage  of  area 23  (no  surprise  modifier  for  the hulks).  The  hulks  attack  with  their claws  and  jaws,  using  their  confusion gaze  if  possible.
Umber  hulks  (4):  Int  10;  AL  CE;  AC 2;  MV  6,  Burrow  ld6  (soft  earth, solid  stone);  HD  8  +  8;  hp  60  each; THACO  11;  #AT  3;  Dmg  3d4/3d4/ ldlO;  SA  looking  into  creature's eyes  causes  confusion  as  per  spell unless  victim  saves  vs.  spells;  oppo¬ nents  have  a  -  5  on  their  surprise rolls  if  creature  springs  from  crack in  wall;  SD  infravision  to  90';  SZ  L; ML  13;  XP  4,000.
If  the  battle  is  going  against  the hulks— for  instance,  if  they  lose  half their  hit  points  —  or  if  the  PCs  retreat, the  hulks  try  to  cause  a  cave-in  of  the east  passage  of  area  23  (25%  chance of  success  per  round  per  hulk).  If  the cave-in  succeeds,  each  character  in this  passage  suffers  6d6  damage.  It takes  a  PC  buried  in  rubble  an  hour  to dig  free;  an  unburied  PC  who  helps can  cut  this  time  in  half.  The  hulks  dig their  way  to  freedom,  causing  cave- ins  behind  them  so  PCs  can't  follow.
24.  CriAcked  Pass  Age
Long  cracks  line  the  north  wall  of this  passage.  The  cracks  were  created by  four  umber  hulks,  who  lurk  be¬ hind  the  wall  in  the  east  passage  of  ar¬ ea  23,  waiting  for  passing  victims  (see area  23  for  hulk  statistics).  Unless  the party  has  already  dealt  with  the  hulks in  area  23,  the  hulks  burst  through the  cracks  and  attack  as  the  party passes  by.
The  hulks  fight  as  described  in  area 23;  they  pursue  the  party  to  any  area west  of  area  24,  but  will  not  go  east (toward  area  25).  If  the  PCs  elude  the hulks  for  15  rounds,  the  hulks  give  up and  dig  themselves  a  new  passage, causing  cave-ins  behind  them  so  they can't  be  followed.  If  the  battle  goes against  the  hulks  — for  instance,  if they  each  lose  half  or  more  of  their hit  points  — they  try  to  cause  a  cave-in as  described  in  area  23.
25.  Gizeen  Pool
The  descending  passage  opens  into a  vast  cavern  with  shiny  granite walls.  A  pool  of  murky  green  wa¬ ter  fills  the  cavern;  a  ball  of  bones tied  tightly  with  what  look  like dark  vines  floats  on  the  pool's  sur¬ face.  You  smell  the  odor  of  sea  wa¬ ter,  but  you  don't  hear  anything.
A  3' -wide  granite  pathway  crosses the  pool,  which  is  about  15'  deep. Slimy  patches  of  algae  cover  much  of the  pathway,  which  contains  a  10'  gap (25a).  Except  for  a  small  ledge  near the  west  opening  (25b),  the  perimeter of  the  pool  is  only  a  few  inches  wide and  is  too  narrow  to  walk  on;  the pathway  is  the  only  way  to  traverse the  cavern  on  foot.  A  5'-wide  under¬ water  passage  (25c)  links  this  pool with  the  smaller  pool  in  area  22.  Sev¬ eral  smaller  passages  carry  excess water  deep  into  the  earth,  maintain¬ ing  the  level  of  the  pool  at  a  relatively constant  level.
Six  marine  scrags  lurk  beneath  the
45
surface.  Icelia's  enchantments  have given  the  scrags  the  immunities  of zombies;  they  otherwise  resemble normal  marine  scrags.  (For  the  pur¬ poses  of  regeneration,  assume  the pool  has  the  properties  of  salt  water.) The  scrags  are  8'  tall,  with  pot  bellies and  rows  of  needle-like  teeth.  Shards of  rotting  green  scaly  hide  hang  from their  dark  bones.
Modified  marine  scrags  (8):  Int low;  AL  CE;  AC  2;  MV  3,  Sw  12;  HD 6  +  12;  hp  60  each;  THACO  13;  #AT 3;  Dmg  ld4/ld4/ld8+8;  SD  begin¬ ning  three  rounds  after  it  is  first wounded,  regenerates  3  hp/ round when  immersed  in  salt  water; scrags  reduced  to  0  hp  stand  up and  fight  as  soon  as  they  have  posi¬ tive  hp  (1  or  more);  a  natural  attack roll  of  20  severs  the  scrag's  limb; severed  limbs  continue  to  fight with  normal  chances  to  hit,  rejoin¬ ing  body  at  end  of  battle;  only  fire and  acid  cause  permanent  damage to  scrags  (destroying  its  regenera¬ tive  abilities);  immune  to  sleep, charm,  hold,  death  magic,  poisons, cold-based  spells,  and  holy  water; cannot  be  turned;  SZ  L;  ML  16;  XP 2,000.
The  bobbing  ball  (25d)  is  a  collec¬ tion  of  hollow  bones  bound  together with  tough  aquatic  vines  that  grow  on the  bottom  of  the  pool.  A  long  vine tied  to  a  heavy  stone  prevents  the  ball from  moving  out  of  position.  The bone  ball  is  intended  to  distract  in¬ truders,  giving  the  scrags  a  better chance  to  ambush  them.
Dark  slime  lines  the  bottom  of  the pool.  The  slime  is  comprised  of  tissue lumps  from  area  17,  rotting  vegeta¬ tion,  and  chunks  of  putrefied  hide from  the  scrags.  Each  scrag  carries  a handful  of  slime  that  it  can  throw  10'. If  a  scrag  hits  a  surfaced  PC  with  this slime  or  rubs  it  into  the  face  of  a  sub¬ merged  PC  (make  a  normal  attack  roll in  either  case),  the  PC  must  succeed  in a  Constitution  check  or  suffer  ex¬ treme  nausea,  making  all  attacks  at  a -2  penalty  for  the  next  hour.  Scrags are  unaffected  by  their  slime.
The  scrags  hope  that  one  or  more of  the  PCs  will  enter  the  water  to  ex¬ amine  the  bone  ball  or  to  swim  the pathway  gap  (25a).  If  so,  the  scrags  at¬ tack  each  PC  in  the  water  (one  scrag per  PC),  first  with  their  slime  ball  and then  with  their  claws  and  teeth.  At the  same  time,  the  remaining  scrags surface  and  try  to  pull  all  PCs  on  the pathway  into  the  water;  PCs  on  the bridge  must  make  a  Dexterity  check with  a  +  4  penalty  (due  to  the  algae  on the  bridge  and  the  strength  of  the scrags)  or  fall  in.
Scrags  who  fail  to  push  their  vic¬ tims  either  join  the  attack  against  any other  fallen  PCs,  or  submerge,  surfac¬ ing  again  in  a  few  rounds  to  make  an¬ other  pushing  attempt  at  PCs  still  on the  pathway.
If  it  appears  to  the  scrags  that  none of  the  PCs  will  voluntarily  enter  the water,  the  scrags  surface  and  try  to push  in  all  PCs  on  the  pathway.  The scrags  then  continue  to  attack  as  de¬ scribed  above.  When  the  opportunity presents  itself,  the  scrags  scoop  new handfuls  of  slime  from  the  bottom  of the  pool  to  attack  PCs  who  haven't  yet been  successfully  slimed.
The  scrags  fight  to  the  death  with any  PCs  in  the  water.  They  make  no attempt  to  move  onto  the  pathway,  al¬ though  they  can  freely  swim  under  it. If  a  PC  flees  from  the  pool  through the  underwater  passage  (25c),  the scrags  pursue;  otherwise,  the  scrags will  not  leave  area  25.
26.  TeteponXen
An  arch  of  black  granite  rises  over the  golden  door  leading  to  this  room. A  strong  odor  of  oranges  emanates from  beneath  the  door.  Inside  is  a pool  of  orange  mist.  Any  PC  stepping inside  is  automatically  teleported  to area  9.
27.  Hovering  Key
An  ivory  key  appears  to  be  hover¬ ing  in  the  center  of  this  black  granite room.  The  walls  contain  flecks  of  pol¬ ished  ivory.  A  soft  halo  of  white  light surrounds  the  key.  A  white  stain  is
centered  on  the  floor  beneath  the key.
The  key  is  actually  an  illusory  im¬ age  with  no  substance;  staves  and other  physical  objects  pass  harm¬ lessly  through  it.  However,  if  any  liv¬ ing  object,  such  as  a  PC's  hand, touches  the  image,  the  image  van¬ ishes  and  a  10'  x  10'  granite  piston  set flush  in  the  ceiling  slams  to  the  floor. The  piston  immediately  withdraws back  into  the  ceiling.  All  PCs  slammed by  the  piston  suffer  6d8  damage  (Dex¬ terity  check  for  half  damage).  The  im¬ age  reappears  10  rounds  later, resetting  the  trap.
The  white  stain  on  the  floor  is  from crushed  bones  that  have  been  pound¬ ed  flat,  the  remains  of  a  long-ago  in¬ truder  who  triggered  the  piston  trap.
28.  Big  Door
This  golden  door  resembles  the  oth¬ er  doors  found  elsewhere  in  the stronghold,  except  that  it  is  about 50%  larger.  The  door  is  actually  a killer  mimic,  who  attacks  the  first  PC who  touches  it.  The  mimic  fights  to the  death  and  pursues  if  necessary.
Killer  mimic:  Int  semi;  AL  NE;  AC  7; MV  3;  HD  10;  hp  74;  THACO  11; #AT  1;  Dmg  3d4  (smash);  SA  glue (any  creature  or  item  touching creature  is  stuck  fast;  alcohol weakens  the  glue  in  three  rounds, or  victim  can  break  free  with  suc¬ cessful  Strength  check  at  +2  pen¬ alty);  SD  immune  to  acid;  SZ  L;  ML; 13;  XP  3,000.
29.
ARcbcLMy/T elepoRTen
An  ivory  arch  arcs  over  the  golden door  leading  to  this  room.  Except  for flecks  of  ivory  imbedded  in  the  black walls,  this  room  is  identical  to  area  6.  A PC  stepping  into  the  orange  mist  is  im¬ mediately  teleported  to  area  9.
50.  BuTTeRfLy  Room
Read  the  following  if  the  party  en¬ ters  this  room.
46
x
3ZZ3C
Chapter*  3:  Leeches  a red  BattGRplies
i
X
The  walls  of  this  room  are  ivory. They're  lined  with  tall  white  trees. The  tree  limbs  are  thin  but  reach almost  to  the  ceiling.  Hundreds  of white  butterflies  perch  in  the branches,  beating  their  wings slowly  and  steadily.
Against  the  south  wall  sits  the ghostly  image  of  a  young  man,  sur¬ rounded  by  a  clutter  of  ivory  frag¬ ments  and  broken  bones.  The image  is  bright  blue,  except  for two  black  holes  opening  in  his head  where  his  eyes  should  be. The  image  is  writing  on  a  piece  of ghostly  parchment  with  a  ghostly feather  pen.  "My  eyes,"  he  moans in  a  thin  squeaky  voice.  "Bring  me my  eyes  ..."
The  trees  are  solid  ivory.  The  but¬ terflies  appear  to  be  normal  white butterflies,  but  have  the  heads  of  tiny humans,  contorted  in  misery  and  de¬ spair.  (The  butterflies  were  human  in¬ truders  lured  into  the  keep  whom Icelia  killed;  she  cursed  their  spirits and  resurrected  them  in  this  form.)  It is  impossible  to  communicate  with the  butterflies.  If  attacked,  the  butter¬ flies  do  not  defend  themselves.  A wish  or  remove  curse  ends  the  curse of  a  single  butterfly;  it  vanishes  in  a flash  of  soft  light  and  is  never  seen again.
The  image  represents  the  spirit  of Hurcol  Nirimor,  a  human  scholar  who made  his  way  into  the  stronghold about  20  years  ago.  Hurcol  planned  to keep  a  diary  of  his  experiences,  later to  be  used  as  a  basis  for  a  series  of books  about  the  supernatural.  Icelia killed  him,  then  resurrected  him  in this  form,  plucking  the  eyes  from  his head  and  turning  them  to  crystal. (The  wraiths  in  area  20  now  have them.)  Hurcol  has  no  memory  of  his original  life.  Since  he's  only  an  image, Hurcol  cannot  attack  or  be  attacked.
If  the  PCs  speak  to  Hurcol  or  other¬ wise  make  their  presence  known, Hurcol  gropes  the  air  in  front  of  him.
"Interview  subjects!"  he  exclaims. "Would  you  mind  answering  a  few questions?"  If  the  PCs  decline,  Hurcol says  he  understands.  "I  respect  your privacy."  He  continues  with  his scrawls  and  mumbles  about  his  lost eyes.  If  the  PCs  agree  to  the  inter¬ view,  Hurcol  asks  them  disjointed questions.  ("Who  are  you?"  —  "Have any  pets?"  —  "Do  you  have  a  favorite song?"  —  "What  day  is  it?").  If  the  PCs examine  his  ghostly  parchments,  they see  only  the  scrawls  of  a  child.
Hurcol  has  no  useful  information for  the  party;  if  they  ask  him  a  ques¬ tion,  he  says,  "Let  me  look  into  that for  you,"  then  grabs  a  random  pair  of broken  bones  or  ivory  fragments from  the  pile  around  him  and  puts them  in  his  head  where  his  eyes should  be.  The  objects  fall  through his  head  and  clatter  to  the  floor.  "Sor¬ ry,"  he  mutters,  then  continues  his  in¬ terview.
If  the  PCs  give  Hurcol  the  blue  crys¬ tal  eyes  (from  area  20),  he  accepts them  and  puts  them  in  his  head.  The eyes  stay  in  place.  Hurcol  blinks  and looks  around.  "Much  better,"  he  says, then  turns  to  the  party.  "Now,  let's  try this  again.  What  is  it  you  wanted  to know?"  Hurcol  still  has  no  useful  in¬ formation  (other  than  described  be¬ low),  answering  the  party's  questions with  a  shrug  and  a  sheepish  "Couldn't tell  you."
However,  if  the  PCs  ask  for  help  in locating  the  treasure  room  or  the  ivo¬ ry  key,  and  they've  given  him  his  eyes, Hurcol  nods  affirmatively.  "Yes,  I  can help  you,"  he  says.  "That  one  I  can help  you  with."  He  steps  past  the  par¬ ty  and  walks  to  the  center  of  the room.  "The  key!"  he  shouts.  "Take  us to  the  key!"
All  the  butterflies  instantly  stop beating  their  wings.  The  entire  room begins  to  sink  into  the  ground,  slowly at  first,  then  faster  and  faster,  as  if  the room  were  plunging  in  free  fall  down an  empty  shaft.
Hurcol  seems  oblivious  to  the  free fall.  "Now  where  were  we?"  he  asks
the  party,  then  proceeds  with  his inane  interview  questions,  still  re¬ cording  the  answers  in  meaningless scrawls.  If  the  PCs  ask  what's  happen¬ ing,  Hurcol  says  matter-of-factly, "We're  going  to  the  key.  Isn't  that what  you  wanted?"
Hurcol  continues  with  his  interview as  the  room  falls.  Each  PC  must  make a  Dexterity  check  to  avoid  falling from  the  rapid  descent,  but  suffers no  damage  in  any  case.  After  ten rounds  of  descent,  the  room  slows. Five  rounds  later,  the  room  stops moving,  settling  gently  as  if  on  a  bed of  feathers.
"We're  here,"  says  Hurcol.  "Good luck."  The  image  of  Hurcol  shimmers and  fades.  A  moment  later,  it's  gone.
31.  Ivory  Death
The  descending  room  (from  area 30)  lands  in  the  area  indicated  by  the dotted  lines.  After  the  image  of  Hur¬ col  disappears,  the  walls  of  the  de¬ scending  room  also  shimmer  and fade;  the  ivory  trees  and  butterflies remain.
After  the  walls  of  the  descending room  vanish,  the  PCs  see  an  immense cavern  with  sheer  ivory  walls.  The 40'  ceiling  is  enchanted  with  perma¬ nent  continual  light,  bathing  the  ca¬ vern  in  a  dim  glow.  Before  them looms  an  ivory  statue  of  a  head,  near¬ ly  30'  in  diameter  (31a).  The  head  re¬ sembles  a  human  skull  covered  with withered  and  rotting  flesh.  Shanks  of long  matted  hair,  also  rendered  in  ivo¬ ry,  extend  from  the  scalp.  Intense  pin¬ points  of  red  light  shine  from  the black  eye  sockets.  Imbedded  in  the center  of  the  forehead,  in  plain  view, is  an  ivory  key.  (The  ivory  statue  rep¬ resents  the  head  of  Icelia.)
Dozens  of  spindly  ivory  trees,  their branches  filled  with  white  butterflies whose  wings  beat  in  a  slow,  steady rhythm,  sprout  from  the  ivory  floor throughout  the  room.  The  butterflies and  trees  resemble  those  in  area  30. Shallow  dish-like  indentations  open in  two  sections  of  the  cavern  floor (31b  and  31c).  There  is  no  exit  from
47
fi
~L
Cbaptert  3:  Leeches  a nd  Battenfjies
i
|  ~^j
the  cavern  in  sight.
If  the  PCs  attack  the  head  in  any way,  or  come  within  10'  of  it,  the  light in  its  eyes  flares  brightly  and  its  jaws slowly  widen.  The  head  spews  a  blast of  poison  gas  in  a  cone  50'  wide  and 100'  long,  reeking  of  decay  and death;  all  those  in  the  cone's  area  of effect  suffer  3d6  damage  (save  vs. poison  for  half  damage).
Immediately  after  the  stench  at¬ tack,  the  ground  near  31b  and  31c  be¬ gins  to  rumble.  A  moment  later,  two 20'-diameter  ivory  fists  burst through  the  31b  and  31c  indenta¬ tions.  Each  hand  has  12  fingers  that end  in  snarling  reptilian  heads  with razor-sharp  fangs.
Ivory  hydra  hands  (2):  Int  semi; AL  CE;  AC  1;  MV  9;  HD  12,  8  hp  per head;  THACO  9;  #AT  12  or  1;  Dmg ldlO  (bite  from  each  head)  or  4dl0 (smash  victims  in  101  radius);  SZ  G; ML  10;  XP  2,000.
The  hydra  hands  lurch  towards  the party,  the  reptilian  heads  hissing  and snapping.  As  the  hands  lurch,  all  the butterflies  flutter  from  the  trees  and move  towards  the  party  in  thick cloud-like  swarms.
Once  the  hydra  hands  burst through  the  floor,  the  hands,  the  but¬ terflies,  and  the  ivory  head  attack  the party  as  described  below.  The  hands and  the  head  fight  until  destroyed,  or until  the  PCs  escape  the  chamber,  as described  below.
Hydra  hands:  The  hydra  hands are  connected  to  long,  flexible  ivory arms  extending  from  the  floor.  The hydra  hands  can  reach  anywhere  in the  chamber.  Every  round,  a  hand can  either  make  biting  attacks  against PCs  (up  to  four  heads  can  attack  a  sin¬ gle  foe),  or  it  can  form  the  heads  into a  fist  and  smash  all  PCs  within  a  101 radius.  Make  a  normal  attack  roll against  each  potential  victim.  Each smashed  victim  suffers  4dl0  damage; items  must  save  vs.  crushing  blow.
Each  arm  is  AC  1  and  has  70  hp.  If the  PCs  sever  a  hand's  arm,  the  hand continues  to  move  and  attack,  but  it can  no  longer  form  a  fist  and  make
smashing  attacks.
Butterflies:  A  butterfly  swarm surrounds  each  PC;  it  cannot  be  evad¬ ed.  A  swarm  does  no  damage  but  is  so distracting  that  the  PC  attacks  at  a  - 2  penalty.  A  swarm  can  be  dispersed if  the  PC  spends  a  round  doing  noth¬ ing  but  fending  it  off  with  smoke  or fire.  A  swarm  also  disperses  if  it  suf¬ fers  25  hp  damage;  assume  the swarm  is  AC  7.  A  dispersed  swarm leaves  the  PC  alone  for  ld4  rounds, then  returns;  if  a  PC  disperses  the same  swarm  a  second  time,  the swarm  no  longer  returns.
Head  statue:  The  head  statue can't  move,  but  it  can  swivel  to  make special  gas  attacks.  Each  gas  attack  is a  cone  50'  wide  and  1001  long;  note that  PCs  are  safe  from  the  gases  at the  far  ends  of  the  cavern.  The  head can  emit  any  of  the  following  spews, one  per  round:
1.  Poison  gas.  (Described  above.)
2.  Fear  gas.  Any  PC  exposed  to  this colorless,  odorless  gas  must  save  vs. breath  weapon  or  fall  trembling  to the  ground,  unable  to  act  for  2d4 rounds.
3.  Silencing  gas.  Any  character  ex¬ posed  to  this  gray,  odorless  gas  must save  vs.  spells  or  lose  the  ability  to speak  for  2d4  rounds.
The  head  statue  is  AC  1.  If  it  suffers 120  hp  damage,  it  crumbles  into  dust, leaving  the  intact  ivory  key  behind. Destroying  the  head  also  reveals  a golden  door  that  was  hidden  behind it.  The  door  opens  to  a  winding  ivory staircase  that  descends  deeper  into the  earth.
32.  Mosaic  Room
This  room  is  similar  to  area  9.  How¬ ever,  there  is  only  one  diagram  and one  arch,  both  made  of  iron  plated with  fool's  gold.  The  diagram  and  the arch  are  icy  cold  to  the  touch.
Above  the  arch  is  a  message  spelled out  in  a  mosaic  of  gold-plated  iron.  The message  reads:  THREE  KEYS  FOR  THE GOLD.  As  before,  the  phrase  means that  three  keys  are  necessary  to  unlock the  golden  door  leading  to  the  treasure chamber  (area  33).
33.  Key  Room
Beyond  the  door  lies  an  immense room  brightly  lit  with  shining  gold¬ en  globes  suspended  from  the  ceil¬ ing.  Centered  in  the  room  is  a square  pit,  filled  to  the  top  with thousands  upon  thousands  of  glis¬ tening  gold  keys.  A  soiled  red  cloth the  size  of  a  handkerchief  extends from  the  key  mound  in  the  center of  the  pit.
A  30'-square  golden  door  sits flush  in  the  north  wall.  You  see sparkling  black  gems  in  the  door. The  center  of  the  door  contains three  keyholes.
The  globes,  keys,  and  door  are  all made  of  iron  covered  with  a  thin  lay¬ er  of  fool's  gold.  The  globes  are  per¬ manently  enchanted  with  continual light.  The  door  is  identical  to  the  door previously  experienced  as  a  vision  by the  Chosen  PC  (Veilstone  Peaks  en¬ counter  15,  Chapter  1).
So  powerful  is  the  magic  that  en¬ chants  the  huge  golden  door  that  not even  a  wish  can  open  it.  At  your  op¬ tion,  a  wish  might  allow  a  PC  inside the  door  without  opening  it,  but  note that  the  PCs  can't  open  the  door  from inside,  either.  However,  if  the  violet key  (from  area  8p),  the  ivory  key (from  area  31),  and  the  old  key  (area 3,  Level  1  of  the  Wolover's  Keep  map) are  inserted  in  the  keyholes  (each  key fits  in  any  keyhole),  proceed  immedi¬ ately  to  the  area  34  encounter.
Aside  from  minor  variations  in  col¬ or  and  size,  the  99,999  keys  in  the  pit are  identical.  All  fit  in  the  keyholes  in the  huge  golden  door,  but  none  of them  open  it.
The  red  cloth  is  part  of  a  velvet robe.  The  robe  surrounds  the  skele¬ tal  remains  of  a  human  male.  These are  the  remains  of  Hakem,  whom Balko  told  the  party  about  in  the  pro¬ logue.  When  Hakem  and  his  sister Kharla  reached  this  area,  the  treach¬ erous  Kharla  stabbed  him  in  the  back and  dumped  his  body  in  the  key  pit,
48
B
t
-X  GJL.  f _ U _  J - 1
j  Chapter*  5:  Leeches*  and  Batter*LpJies  1
J
L
/  \  f  -  -  A.  H  J K  JL
A
so  that  she  could  keep  the  treasure for  herself.
If  the  party  doesn't  have  the  keys needed  to  open  the  treasure  door,  let them  experiment  for  a  while  with  al¬ ternate  methods  of  opening  it  (all  of them  fail).  When  they're  on  the  verge of  giving  up,  proceed  to  the  "Clawed Intruders"  section.
CLauued  ItoTizud&zs
Your  attention  is  drawn  to  a  low humming  coming  from  the  west wall.  The  humming  increases  in  in¬ tensity,  becoming  so  loud  that  it seems  to  drill  into  your  brain,  as  a ten-by-ten  section  of  the  wall  be¬ gins  to  glow.  As  the  humming builds  to  a  painful  crescendo, streams  of  white  light  flare  from the  glowing  square,  and  the  hum¬ ming  stops.
The  wall  section  is  gone.  Stand¬ ing  in  the  opening  is  a  woman  with the  head  of  a  cockroach.  She  has twitching  black  antennae,  a  pair  of bulbous  golden  eyeballs,  and wisps  of  long  black  hair  growing from  her  shiny  scalp.  She  wears  a tattered  scarlet  robe  and  carries  a glowing  silver  rod  in  her  clawed hand.  Eight  other  humanoids,  just as  hideous,  cower  behind  her.
The  woman  steps  through  the opening.  The  other  creatures  fol¬ low  her  closely.  "You  seek  trea¬ sure?"  she  asks  in  a  raspy  voice.  "I bring  you  a  gift  far  more  valuable than  gold  and  gems."
The  creatures  are  mindless  lichling servitors  (see  area  8k  for  details).  The female  is  Kharla,  another  servitor.
Lichling  servitors  (9):  Int  semi;  AL CE;  AC  2;  MV  12;  HD  6;  hP  45; THACO  15;  #AT  2;  Dmg  2d6/2d6 (claws);  SD  can  only  be  struck  by +  1  or  better  magical  weapons;  im¬ mune  to  poison,  charm,  sleep,  en- feeblement,  polymorph,  fear,  cold, electricity,  insanity,  and  death
spells;  vulnerable  to  rod  of  immo¬ bile  insects  from  Chapter  1;  SZ  L; ML  15;  XP  975.
Kharla  originally  entered  the stronghold  with  her  brother  Hakem, in  search  of  riches.  She  killed  him when  they  found  the  treasure  room. Impressed  with  Kharla's  treachery, Icelia  murdered  her,  then  resur¬ rected  her  to  serve  as  a  commander of  the  lichling  servitors.  Icelia  al¬ lowed  Kharla  to  retain  her  intelli¬ gence,  though  Kharla  has  no  memory of  her  former  life.
In  exchange  for  a  promise  of  a  king¬ dom  of  human  slaves  to  rule  — a promise  Icelia  has  no  intention  of keeping— Kharla  now  willingly  serves Icelia.  Her  principal  duty  is  finding exceptionally  able  humans  who  can be  transformed  into  new  servitors.
Kharla  has  the  same  statistics  as  the other  servitors.  Also,  Kharla  has  a wand  of  lightning  with  12  charges. Kharla  opened  the  section  of  wall  by touching  it  with  a  small  copper  ring she  wears  on  the  claw  of  her  right hand.  The  wall  section  remains  open for  15  minutes.
Before  the  PCs  can  act  against  the servitors,  Kharla  hurls  a  glass  sphere that  shatters  and  fills  the  room  with  a gray  mist.  All  PCs  in  the  room  must save  vs.  poison  at  a  -7  penalty  or lapse  into  unconsciousness  for  an hour.  The  servitors  attack  PCs  who don't  succumb  to  the  gas;  if  conscious PCs  don't  surrender,  the  servitors fight  to  the  death.  Unconscious  and captured  PCs  are  taken  to  the  cavern north  of  the  treasure  room;  proceed to  area  36.
54.  TneAsuize  Room
When  the  proper  keys  are  inserted in  the  keyholes  of  the  golden  door  (in area  33),  the  door  disappears,  reveal¬ ing  a  vast  circular  chamber  filled with  staggering  amounts  of  treasure: pearls,  opals,  and  sapphires  as  nu¬ merous  as  grains  of  sand  on  a  beach; a  sparkling  ocean  of  diamonds,  emer¬
alds,  and  rubies;  glistening  drifts  of gold  and  silver  coins.
A  moment  after  the  door  disap¬ pears,  it  is  replaced  with  the  ghostly image  of  a  human  skull  covered  with withered  and  rotting  flesh  and shanks  of  long  matted  hair.  Intense pinpoints  of  red  light  shine  from  the black  eye  sockets.  (This  is  an  image  of Icelia,  similar  to  the  ivory  statue  in  ar¬ ea  31).  The  image  cackles  loudly,  its voice  like  nails  scraping  on  slate. Opening  its  jaws  wide,  it  inhales sharply.  Every  PC,  regardless  of  his location,  is  swept  into  the  jaws  of  the image  as  if  pulled  by  a  powerful  vac¬ uum.  The  PCs  can  do  nothing  to  resist the  vacuum;  they  crash  into  a  pile  of gold  coins,  each  suffering  ld6  dam¬ age  from  the  impact.
When  all  the  PCs  have  been  drawn into  the  treasure  room,  the  image vanishes,  and  the  door  reappears,  ef¬ fectively  trapping  them  inside.  The 5'-thick  door  is  made  of  iron,  perma¬ nently  enchanted  with  wall  of  force. The  room  is  made  of  black  granite.
The  chamber  is  pitch  black.  PCs who  examine  the  treasure  find  that most  of  it  has  been  fused  together  in immense  clumps.  Icelia  did  this  to prevent  theft.  Tampering  with  the fused  treasure  in  any  way  causes  it  to crumble  into  near  worthless  dust.
Diligent  searching  reveals  many loose  gems  and  coins  that  the  PCs may  take.  All  gems  listed  in  the "Gems"  section  of  Appendix  1  in  the Dungeon  Master’s  Guide  are  in  ample supply.  Determine  how  much  trea¬ sure  is  available  to  the  party  accord¬ ing  to  your  own  campaign's standards,  up  to  about  50,000  gp  val¬ ue  per  PC.
The  PCs  also  discover  several  skele¬ tal  remains  among  the  treasure  piles. These  are  adventurers  who  were trapped  in  the  treasure  room  and died  here.  If  the  PCs  examine  the north  side  of  the  room,  they  discover an  8' -diameter  hole  that  appears  to have  been  crudely  hacked  into  the wall.  The  hole  opens  to  an  8'- diameter,  roughly  chiseled  passage that  winds  into  the  earth.
49
X
*
f
|“
Cbaptei*  3:  LcM^ctaes  and  BatteistpJfes
i
X
35.  D^wg  ALl^
Sprawled  against  the  north  wall  of this  cavern  is  a  stocky  human  clutch¬ ing  a  green-glowing  battle  axe  and wearing  a  copper  bracelet.  His  eyes are  glassy,  his  lips  are  cracked,  and his  skin  is  bright  yellow.  Thin  streams of  yellow  liquid  trickle  from  small cracks  in  the  cavern  wall.  The  human struggles  to  rise  when  he  sees  the party,  then  collapses  back  to  the ground.  He  smiles  weakly.  "Good  to see  you,"  he  gasps.  "Looks  like  you  got here  just  in  time."
Lenzmin  Tier  (13th-level  human fighter):  AL  LG;  AC  5;  MV  nil  (due to  illness);  hp  5  (normally  90  hp,  re¬ duced  due  to  illness);  THACO  nil (normally  8)  #AT  nil  (normally  1); Dmg  nil  (normally  by  weapon);  AL LG.  Carries  Stonesplitter  (see  text).
Tier  introduces  himself.  If  the  PCs speak,  he  interrupts  them.  "Hear  me out,"  he  says.  "I  may  not  last  much longer."  Tier  says  he  entered  the stronghold  at  the  King  of  Cormyr's  re¬ quest,  and  through  perseverance "and  a  great  deal  of  luck"  found  the keys  needed  to  unlock  the  treasure room  door.  "I  had  a  bit  of  help,"  he  ad¬ mits,  saying  that  he  consulted  with  an old  diviner  friend  before  he  arrived at  the  keep.  "His  name  is  Xamine. Lives  in  a  little  town  called  Melcher. He  used  his  divining  skills  to  figure out  which  keys  I  needed."  (If  the  PCs visited  Melcher  in  Chapter  1,  they may  have  heard  about  Tier's  meetings with  Xamine.)
Once  Tier  opened  the  treasure door,  he  was  trapped  inside  like  the PCs.  Using  his  axe,  Stonesplitter,  he hacked  open  an  escape  passage.  "But  I went  the  wrong  way.  A  yellow  liquid sprayed  through  these  cracks  in  the wall  and  doused  me  with  poison.  I  ha¬ ven't  been  able  to  go  on."
Tier  was  sprayed  by  a  stream  from the  poison  pool  in  area  37.  There  isn't enough  of  the  lilac  liquid  left  in  this cavern  to  harm  the  PCs.  Tier  has  kept himself  alive  through  various  potions he'd  carried  with  him,  but  now  he's
near  death.
Tier  explains  that  the  promise  of treasure  is  only  a  ruse  to  lure  people into  this  stronghold,  which  was  cre¬ ated  by  an  evil  force  of  enormous magnitude.  "Her  name  is  Icelia.  She must  be  stopped,  or  all  the  Realms will  be  hers."
Tier  gags  and  chokes,  struggling  to catch  his  breath.  When  he  resumes breathing  normally,  the  party  can question  him.  He  has  no  information other  than  that  listed  below.  If  the PCs  don't  ask  the  right  questions,  Tier offers  any  of  the  information  that  you feel  the  PCs  should  have.
"Who  is  Icelia?":  "An  evil  wizard who  was  later  reborn  as  a  lich.  She has  since  become  something  far  more powerful  than  a  lich,  and  far  more dangerous."  Tier  has  no  details.
"What  do  you  know  of  her plan?":  "She  is  creating  her  own  ar¬ my  to  conquer  the  world,  an  army  of insectile  monstrosities,  spawned from  her  body."  If  asked,  Tier  de¬ scribes  the  physical  appearance  of the  lichlings;  PCs  who  have  seen  the lichlings  elsewhere  recognize  Tier's description.  "This  labyrinth  was  built for  Icelia' s  spawns.  They  feed  on  the fear  and  emotional  trauma  of  in¬ truders  trying  to  navigate  safely  past its  traps  and  minions."  Tier  has  no more  details.
"How  do  we  stop  Icelia?":  Tier doesn't  know,  but  he  knows  where  to find  her.  "She  is  somewhere  to  the east."
"How  did  you  learn  all  this  in¬ formation?":  "A  man  appeared  to me  in  a  vision.  He  didn't  say  his  name, but  he  had  blue  eyes,  a  curly  blonde beard,  and  wore  a  long  robe  covered with  small  circles."  The  image  said that  in  his  former  life,  he  was  a  wiz¬ ard  engaged  in  magical  research  to benefit  the  poverty-stricken  farmers of  his  homeland.  "But  Icelia  killed  him and  corrupted  his  ideas  for  her  own purposes."  (The  image  was  that  of Amry  Wolover.)
"If  you  had  the  keys  to  the treasure  room  door,  how  were we  able  to  find  them?":  "Perhaps the  keys  vanish  when  the  door  opens,
reappearing  in  their  original  loca¬ tions  for  other  intruders  to  find." (Good  guess  — he's  right.)
Stonesplitter:  When  the  party completes  its  questions,  Tier  gives them  his  axe.  "This  is  Stonesplitter.  It now  belongs  to  you.  Use  it  to  cut  a path  due  east,  then  continue  in  that direction  until  you  find  a  way  to  de¬ stroy  Icelia."
Stonesplitter  acts  as  both  a  vorpal battle  axe  and  a  spade  of  colossal  ex¬ cavation,  except  that  it  can  cut  and scoop  away  sections  of  solid  rock. Tier  also  gives  them  his  remaining food  (two  days'  rations  for  one  per¬ son)  and  his  copper  bracelet  (value  5 gP)-
Tier  is  too  weak  to  accompany  the party.  However,  if  the  PCs  use  magical or  other  methods  to  return  Tier  to  at least  half  of  his  original  hit  points,  he feels  well  enough  to  accompany  them for  the  rest  of  their  journey,  if  they ask.  Such  are  his  injuries,  though, that  he  can't  walk  faster  than  MV  3.  If Tier  accompanies  the  party,  he  keeps Stonesplitter  for  himself.  If  the  PCs don't  take  Tier  with  them  and  return to  this  area  within  an  hour,  they  dis¬ cover  that  Tier  has  died.
If  the  party  uses  Stonesplitter  to  cut a  tunnel  to  the  east,  or  if  Tier  goes with  them  and  shows  them  the  way, they  enter  area  39.
36.  TiiAWSfoumatioK)
Cav&z  kj
Events  here  depend  on  whether  the party  has  experienced  the  "Clawed Intruders"  section  above.
If  the  party  hasn't  experienced "Clawed  Intruders":  The  party most  likely  has  entered  this  area  be¬ cause  they  didn't  follow  Tier's  direc¬ tions  (see  area  35).  As  soon  as  the party  enters  area  36,  they  encounter Kharla  and  her  eight  lichling  servitors (see  the  "Clawed  Intruders"  section for  details).  Kharla  tries  to  knock  out the  PCs  with  her  glass  globe  (as  de¬ tailed  in  "Clawed  Intruders"),  after which  the  encounter  plays  out  as  de-
50
y-r-
X
Chapter*  3:  Leeches  a nd  ButteKLdies
n
JL
JL.
scribed  below.
If  the  party  has  experienced "Clawed  Intruders":  The  party awakens  in  the  bottom  of  a  bowl¬ shaped  pit  about  15'  deep  and  20'  in diameter  (36a);  small  projections  of jagged  rock  line  the  sides  of  the  pit. All  PCs  have  their  hands  tightly bound  behind  them  with  thick  vines. All  their  weapons,  armor,  and  other possessions  are  gone.
The  pit  is  centered  in  a  black  gran¬ ite  cavern,  illuminated  by  patches  of fluorescent  fungus  clinging  to  the walls.  The  cavern  ceiling  is  30'  high; stalactites  and  stalagmites,  about  5' thick  and  10'  long,  sprout  from  the ceiling  and  floor.
Kharla  and  seven  of  her  lichling  ser¬ vitors  stand  near  the  perimeter  of  the pit,  staring  down  at  the  party.  The eighth  servitor  stands  near  the  north wall  beside  a  3' -wide  granite  boulder that's  been  plugged  into  a  hole  in  the wall  (36b).  A  tiny  stream  of  yellowish fluid  leaks  from  the  boulder,  dripping into  a  gutter  (36c)  that  leads  to  the  pit.
All  of  the  party's  possessions  are piled  near  the  west  wall  (36d).  The passage  in  the  south  wall  (36e)  leads back  to  the  key  room  (area  33);  it  ends at  a  solid  granite  wall,  enchanted  with wall  of  force  (unless  the  PCs  can  ne¬ gate  the  wall  of  force  and  break  their way  in,  only  the  touch  of  Kharla's  cop¬ per  ring  can  re-open  the  magical  en¬ try  to  area  33).
As  soon  as  the  PCs  regain  con¬ sciousness,  Kharla  peers  into  the  pit and  speaks  to  them.  "You  have  been chosen  for  a  great  honor.  In  a  short while,  you  will  join  the  select  ranks  of those  who  serve  the  children  of  Icelia. But  first,  we  must  rid  you  of  your  re¬ pulsive  flesh."  Kharla  motions  to  the servitor  by  the  granite  plug  (36b).  The servitor  pulls  out  the  boulder,  and thick  streams  of  milky  fluid  with  yel¬ low  lumps  pour  from  the  hole,  flow down  the  gutter,  and  plop  wetly  into the  party's  pit  (36a).  When  the  first gush  of  fluid  splashes  into  the  pit, each  PC  must  make  a  Constitution check;  failure  means  violent  nausea from  the  stench,  losing  ld4  hit  points and  the  slippery  liquid  causes  a  PC  to
fall  to  the  ground.  During  the  next 2d4  rounds  the  character  can  take  no action.  (The  party  should  recognize this  fluid  as  similar  to  that  in  area  17).
The  fluid  fills  the  pit  at  a  rate  of  l1 per  round.  The  PCs  cannot  float  or swim  in  the  thick  fluid;  once  sub¬ merged  in  the  fluid,  they  risk  drown¬ ing  (refer  to  the  Special  Underwater Rules  in  the  Introduction).  Kharla  in¬ tends  all  PCs  to  drown  in  the  pit.  Dead PCs  are  left  in  the  pit  for  24  hours,  at which  time  Icelia  will  transform  them permanently  into  NPC  lichling  servi¬ tors.  In  two  days'  time,  the  fluid  grad¬ ually  seeps  into  tiny  cracks  in  the bottom  of  the  pit,  emptying  it.
If  they  wish,  the  PCs  can  speak  with Kharla  while  the  pit  fills.  If  asked  to identify  Icelia,  Kharla  says  only,  "The master  and  mother  of  us  all."  If  asked about  Hakem,  she  says,  "He  was  too weak  to  serve,  fit  only  for  lichling food."  If  asked  about  the  lichlings,  she identifies  them  as  "the  developing children  of  Icelia  — soon  to  be  your brothers."  To  all  other  questions,  she answers,  "This  is  not  for  children  to know."
There  are  three  ways  the  PCs  can break  free  of  the  vines  binding  them:
•  Snap  them  with  a  Strength  check.
•  Untie  them  with  a  Dexterity  check at  a  +4  penalty;  a  PC  back-to-back with  a  companion  takes  only  a  +  2 penalty  on  attempts  to  untie  the companion's  bonds.
•  Scrape  the  vines  against  the  sharp projections  on  the  walls  of  the  pit. The  projections  cut  the  bonds  in ld4  +  1  rounds  of  scraping.
As  soon  as  Kharla  realizes  that  any of  the  PCs  have  freed  themselves  (for instance,  if  a  PC  begins  to  climb  out  of the  pit,  or  attacks  a  servitor  with  a missile  weapon),  she  and  the  servitors attack  all  freed  PCs,  leaving  the bound  PCs  to  drown  in  the  pit.  Kharla attacks  with  her  wand  of  lightning; the  servitors  swarm  at  the  PCs,  slash¬ ing  with  their  claws  and  snapping with  their  teeth.  Kharla  does  not  ne¬ gotiate,  and  she  and  the  servitors fight  to  the  death.  Kharla  and  the  ser¬
vitors  pursue  the  PCs  relentlessly, though  they  do  not  go  near  the  mist pool  (area  40).
All  the  servitors,  including  Kharla, can  be  affected  by  the  rod  of  immo¬ bile  insects  from  Chapter  1.
A  group  of  PCs  whose  Strength scores  total  20  can  replace  the  boul¬ der  plug  in  the  hole  (36b)  and  stop  the flow  of  fluid.  As  long  as  the  servitors are  engaged  in  battle,  they  don't  both¬ er  to  pull  the  plug  again.
37.  YeLlotu  Pool
This  cavern  reeks  of  lilac,  emitted from  a  large  pool  of  yellow  liquid. Any  PC  who  touches  the  liquid  must save  vs.  poison  or  die  (save  for  3d6 damage).
The  poison  is  derived  from  the  S3/A chemical  that  the  party  may  have learned  about  in  Chapter  1;  a  2C/XA pellet  — available  in  Chapter  1  — negates  the  effects  of  the  liquid.  Lich¬ ling  servitors  are  immune  to  the liquid's  effects.
38.  Blockage
The  passage  is  blocked  by  large chunks  of  black  granite  caused  by  a collapsing  ceiling.  One  PC  working for  an  hour  can  clear  away  enough chunks  to  create  a  man-sized  hole through  the  blockage.
39.  CAveruo
This  huge  cavern  is  filled  with  thick stalactites  and  stalagmites.  It  holds nothing  of  interest.
40.  Mist  Pool
When  the  party  comes  within  20'  of this  cavern,  they  smell  the  sweet  aro¬ ma  of  oranges.
A  pool  of  orange  mist  fills  the  floor of  the  cavern.  Any  PC  touching  the mist  is  instantly  teleported  to  area  1 of  Chapter  4.
51
I  Chapter?  4:  Spi'doRs  and  Wok  ms
DM’s  overview
This  chapter  details  the  third  and final  level  of  Icelia's  stronghold,  the transformed  husk  of  what  was  once Icelia's  body.  Use  the  Stronghold Level  3  map  on  the  insert  color  map for  reference.  The  PCs  begin  this chapter  in  area  1.
Goals
In  this  chapter,  the  PCs  can  accom¬ plish  the  following:
•  locate  the  spirit  of  Amry  Wolover and  learn  his  secrets  (area  11).
•  find  the  spawning  ground  of  the lichlings  (area  12).
•  face  Icelia  and  Zhorach  in  a  final showdown  (area  13).
GeNjercaL  FeaTurc.es
Icelia  has  transformed  her  body  in¬ to  an  immense  husk,  magically  adapt¬ ed  to  generate  and  incubate  her lichlings.  The  PCs  travel  through  Ice¬
lia's  transformed  body  in  this  part  of the  adventure,  making  their  way through  a  maze  of  ducts  and  modi¬ fied  organs.  The  players  aren't  likely to  be  aware  of  the  exact  nature  of their  characters'  surroundings,  at least  at  first.  Allow  them  the  fun  of figuring  it  out  for  themselves.
The  husk  is  suspended  horizontally in  an  immense  cavern  miles  beneath the  surface  of  the  earth.  Thick  webs of  iron  strands,  generated  by  Icelia and  permanently  enchanted  with wall  of  force,  connect  the  husk  to  the cavern  walls.  The  strands  are  only inches  apart  and  instantly  regenerate if  destroyed.
Except  where  specified  otherwise, the  interior  of  the  husk,  including  all ducts,  organs,  and  fluids,  is  about  45 degrees  Fahrenheit  — uncomfortably cold,  but  not  damaging.
All  ducts,  organs,  and  other  areas of  the  husk  generate  their  own greenish  light.  The  light  is  very  dim, equivalent  to  the  light  produced  by small  candles.
With  the  exception  of  the  ducts,  or¬
gans,  valves,  and  capillary  bundles (all  described  below),  the  entire  husk is  made  of  petrified  tissue  with  AC -1.  Networks  of  tiny  capillaries  filled with  a  magical  freezing  gas  extend from  the  cavern  walls  and  permeate all  petrified  tissue,  making  the  tissue ice  cold  to  the  touch.  Should  a  PC damage  the  tissue— for  instance,  by digging  through  it— the  damage  auto¬ matically  ruptures  the  capillaries  and sprays  a  mist  of  freezing  gas,  causing 2d6  damage  (save  vs.  breath  weapon for  half  damage).  PCs  continue  to suffer  this  damage  every  round  they attack  the  tissue.  Damaged  husk  tis¬ sue  completely  repairs  itself  in  one round;  ducts,  organs,  and  capillary bundles  also  heal  in  this  way.
Map  FeaTurc.es
All  of  these  features  are  designated on  the  Stronghold  Level  3  Map.
Ducts:  The  PCs  travel  in  the  husk mainly  through  ducts,  which  resem¬ ble  lO'-diameter  gray  tunnels.  Cov¬ ered  with  small  bumps  and  ridges.
52
&
~L
3CZ3C
Chapter*  4:  Spfdens  anti  Wonms
JL
t: — r
ducts  have  the  texture  of  alligator hide  and  emit  a  slight  odor  of  rotten eggs.  The  ducts  continuously  expand and  contract  as  if  breathing;  the  con¬ tractions  are  very  slight  and  don't  in¬ terfere  with  the  party's  actions.
The  ducts  are  AC  0.  Damaging  a duct  exposes  the  petrified  tissue  be¬ hind  it  (see  above).  Damaged  ducts magically  repair  themselves  in  one round.
Though  the  ducts  have  occasional slopes  and  inclines,  for  the  most  part they  lie  on  a  horizontal  plane,  allow¬ ing  PCs  to  use  their  normal  move¬ ment  rates.
There  are  four  types  of  ducts,  each designated  by  the  substance  it  con¬ tains.  The  substances  are  confined  to the  ducts;  they  are  not  transmitted  to adjacent  ducts  and  organs  by  valves (see  below).
The  duct  types:
1.  Lilac  ducts:  Translucent  yellow mist  that  smells  like  lilacs  fills  these ducts.  Any  PC  who  comes  in  contact with  the  mist  must  save  vs.  poison  or die;  a  save  still  means  3d6  damage. The  poison  is  derived  from  the  S3/A chemical  that  the  party  may  have learned  about  in  Chapter  1;  a  2C/XA pellet  (available  in  Chapter  1)  negates the  effects  of  the  mist.
2.  Clear  water  ducts:  Crystal  clear water  that  smells  like  a  mixture  of  sea water  and  alcohol  fills  these  ducts.  It has  the  same  properties  as  the  water described  in  area  4  of  Chapter  2.  (PCs can  breathe  this  fluid  as  easily  as  air).
3.  Lichling  fluid  ducts:  These  ducts are  filled  with  lichling  fluid,  a  thick, brackish  smelling  liquid  that  pro¬ motes  the  development  of  maturing lichlings.  The  fluid  is  extremely  hot and  severely  burns  anyone  immersed in  it  (3d6  damage  per  round).
4.  Stench  ducts:  Wisps  of  gray  mist float  lazily  in  these  ducts.  The  mist reeks  of  rotten  meat,  but  is  harmless.
Organs:  Like  ducts,  all  organs  are AC  0;  damaging  them  exposes  petri¬ fied  tissue  (see  above).  Damaged  or¬ gans  magically  repair  themselves  in one  round.  Organs  not  discussed  in the  text  have  withered  away  and  dis¬ solved.
Valves:  Valves  are  passageways  be¬ tween  ducts  and  organs.  They  resem¬ ble  puckered  circles  of  black  leather, 5'  in  diameter.  A  character  who touches  a  valve  is  instantly  trans¬ ported  to  the  opposite  side.  Like  the mist  doors  in  Chapter  3,  passage through  a  valve  is  one-way  only,  indi¬ cated  by  the  direction  of  the  arrow (see  map).  The  opposite  side  of  a valve— that  is,  the  side  opposite  the one  indicated  by  the  arrow  —  acts  as  a wall  of  force  to  prevent  passage  in  the other  direction.
Though  valves  are  opaque,  they transmit  sounds  and  odors,  which can  provide  helpful  clues  to  the  PCs about  the  opposite  side.  For  instance, a  valve  leading  to  a  lilac  duct  emits  a lilac  odor.  A  valve  leading  to  a  lichling fluid  duct  is  warm  to  the  touch  and exudes  a  coppery  odor.
Capillary  bundles:  These  are bundles  of  tiny  ducts.  Each  duct  is about  an  inch  in  diameter,  and  the  en¬ tire  bundle  is  about  10'  in  diameter. The  capillary  bundles  deliver  fluids, gasses,  and  other  nutrients  generated by  the  various  organs  to  the  brain  ar¬ ea  (area  13)  to  stimulate  the  produc¬ tion  of  lichling  buds.  As  seen  on  the map,  these  bundles  penetrate  and flow  outside  the  body.  Destroying  a capillary  bundle  or  interfering  with its  flow  has  no  significant  effect  on the  delivery  of  nutrients  to  the  brain, since  the  bundles  can  magically  re¬ pair  and  unclog  themselves  in  one round.
Constricting  ducts:  The  weight of  the  party  occasionally  triggers spasms  in  sections  of  the  ducts.  For every  50'  of  duct  travelled,  roll  ld6. On  a  roll  of  1,  the  party  feels  the  walls of  the  duct  begin  to  spasm  and  quiver. If  the  PCs  stop  moving  for  two  con¬ secutive  rounds,  the  quivering  sub¬ sides,  and  the  encounter  is  over. Otherwise,  a  lO'-section  of  the  duct tightly  contracts  (choose  any  random lO'-section  of  the  duct  occupied  by  at least  one  PC).  All  PCs  within  this  sec¬ tion  are  tightly  squeezed  for  the  next ld4  rounds,  as  though  crushed  by  a constrictor  snake.
A  trapped  PC  can  try  once  per
round  to  squirm  free  of  the  contract¬ ing  section  with  a  Strength  check  at  a +  2  penalty.  Failure  means  2d4  dam¬ age  on  that  round.  Because  the  ends of  the  contracting  section  pinch themselves  shut,  PCs  not  caught  in the  section  can  do  little  to  assist  their trapped  companions;  damage  inflict¬ ed  on  the  contracting  section  of  the duct  is  instantly  negated.  At  the  end of  the  contraction's  duration,  the  duct expands  to  its  normal  diameter.
Cracked  ducts:  These  crack- laced  duct  sections  are  significantly weaker  than  adjacent  sections.  PCs walking  carefully  through  these  sec¬ tions  (moving  at  Vi  or  less  of  their  nor¬ mal  movement  rates)  can  make  the trip  across  these  sections  safely.  A  PC moving  at  more  than  Vi  normal  move¬ ment  rate  must  make  a  Dexterity check;  if  the  check  fails,  the  PC  chips off  a  section  of  the  duct,  breaking open  a  tiny  capillary  that  sprays freezing  gas  (2d6  damage;  save  vs. dragon  breath  for  half  damage)  in  a 10'  radius.
Blockages:  These  are  web-like  ob¬ structions  of  thick  tissue  that  block the  party's  progress.  To  clear  a  block¬ age,  the  PCs  must  inflict  50  hp  dam¬ age  on  it;  the  blockage  is  AC  0.
Sensory  Phenomena  and Physical  Encounters:  When  the party  enters  an  area  marked  with  an "X"  on  the  map,  roll  ld8.  On  a  roll  of 1-3,  roll  for  or  choose  a  Sensory  Phe¬ nomenon.  On  a  roll  of  4-6,  roll  for  or choose  a  Physical  Encounter.  No  en¬ counter  occurs  on  a  roll  of  7-8.  Feel free  to  modify  or  substitute  encount¬ ers  as  appropriate  to  the  party's  cur¬ rent  situation.
When  a  Physical  Encounter  indi¬ cates  a  monster  attack,  the  monster may  charge  from  a  valve,  approach the  party  from  behind,  or  appear  in any  other  manner  you  like.  Monsters pursue  into  other  ducts,  but  not  into organs.
53
ENCOUNTER KEY-LEVEL  5
1.  Modified  Gail Bladderz
If  the  PCs  have  just  arrived  here from  the  orange  circle  in  area  40  of Chapter  3,  read  the  following:
When  you  wake  up,  the  first  thing you  notice  is  the  smell  — a  sour combination  of  alcohol,  sea  water, and  rotting  meat.  Shivering  from the  cold  air,  you  realize  that  you're sitting  chest-deep  in  a  pile  of  peb¬ bles.  But  the  pebbles  crush  like crackers  when  you  move.
You  take  a  closer  look  — the  "peb¬ bles"  are  actually  the  dried  re¬ mains  of  tiny  green  worms,  and the  floor  of  this  chamber  is  filled with  them.
The  party  is  inside  the  right  lobe (la)  of  a  pear-shaped  organ  with spongy  pink  walls.  The  organ  was formerly  an  immense  gall  bladder. However,  instead  of  storing  digestive fluids,  the  organ  now  serves  as  recep¬ tacle  for  dead  green  worms  manufac¬ tured  in  the  modified  intestine  (area 5b).  The  dead  worms  are  sucked through  a  duct  (area  6)  and  deposited here,  where  they  eventually  decom¬ pose  and  are  absorbed  into  the  organ walls.  The  dead  worms  smell  awful but  are  harmless.
Except  for  their  sizes,  lobes  la  and lc  are  identical.  A  10' -long  passage  of spongy  tissue  connects  them  (lb).  As soon  as  the  first  PC  enters  the  pas¬ sage,  the  passage  begins  to  close,  as  if it  were  a  Constricting  Duct  (see  the "Map  Features"  section  above).
2.  Wdjzxx)  Zone
Portions  of  the  ducts  within  the  dot¬ ted  line  are  about  15  degrees  warmer than  elsewhere  in  the  husk.  The ducts  become  warmer  still  as  they
near  area  3.
5.  Modified  Kidney
This  organ  was  formerly  an  im¬ mense  kidney.  However,  instead  of  fil- tering  blood,  the  organ  now generates  lichling  fluid,  transported via  capillary  bundles  to  the  modified brain  (area  12).  The  fluid  also  seeps through  small  cracks  in  the  husk  to fill  pools  and  streams  elsewhere  in the  labyrinth  (such  as  areas  11  and  12 in  Chapter  3).
PCs  touching  the  valve  leading  to this  organ  are  instantly  transported to  a  ledge  of  spongy  red  tissue  (3a)  in¬ side  a  purplish  bean-shaped  chamber. The  chamber  is  swelteringly  hot  and reeks  of  decaying  meat.  Steaming lichling  fluid  fills  the  chamber  to  a depth  of  10'.  Immersion  in  the  fluid causes  3d6  damage  per  round.
Four  islands  of  spongy  red  tissue float  in  the  fluid  (3c).  A  PC  can  jump between  two  islands  with  a  success¬ ful  Dexterity  check;  a  failed  check means  a  fall  into  the  hot  lichling  fluid (3d6  damage).  Ledge  3b  leads  out  of the  organ.
Streams  of  lichling  fluid  pour  stead¬ ily  from  purple  spigots  growing  from the  chamber  walls  (3d).  The  spigots, made  from  pulsating  purple  muscle tissue,  magically  generate  the  lichling fluid.  A  capillary  bundle  opens  on  the east  wall  near  the  surface  of  the  lichl¬ ing  fluid  pool;  the  bundle  carries  the fluid  to  area  12.  A  valve  is  also  open  in the  north  wall,  and  a  spongy  tissue ledge  extends  beneath  it.
At  the  bottom  of  the  pool  is  a  larger valve  (3e)  leading  to  a  30' -diameter chamber  of  fire,  the  home  of  a  fire  el¬ emental  that  keeps  the  lichling  fluid hot.  Only  the  elemental  can  use  the valve  leading  to  its  chamber  (which contains  nothing  of  interest  to  the party).
Fire  elemental:  Int  low;  AL  N;  AC  2; MV  12;  HD  16;  hP  120;  THAC0  5; #AT  1;  Dmg  3d8;  SA  any  flammable object  struck  by  the  elemental must  save  vs.  magical  fire  at  -2  or immediately  begin  to  burn;  SD  +2
or  better  weapon  to  hit;  immune  to all  heat  and  fire-based  attacks;  SZ H;  ML  17;  XP  10,000.
Within  two  rounds  after  the  party enters  the  organ,  the  fire  elemental bursts  through  the  surface  of  the  lich¬ ling  fluid  pool  to  attack  the  intruders. The  elemental  can  walk  effortlessly on  the  surface  of  the  pool  and  — unlike  normal  elementals— will  not  be diminished  or  extinguished  by  con¬ tact  with  the  lichling  fluid.  Any  PC  hit while  on  a  tissue  island  must  succeed in  a  Dexterity  check  or  fall  into  the lichling  fluid.  The  elemental  attacks as  long  as  a  living  PC  remains  in  its chamber.  The  elemental  will  not  leave the  kidney.
4.  TicLle  Zone
PCs  in  the  portions  of  the  ducts within  the  dotted  line  feel  a  tickling sensation  on  their  flesh,  as  if  hun¬ dreds  of  tiny  invisible  hairs  are brushing  against  them.  There,  is  no apparent  source  of  the  tickling, which  persists  as  long  as  the  PCs  re¬ main  within  this  area.  The  PCs  suffer no  penalties  from  the  tickling.
5.  Modified  InXesTine
This  organ  was  formerly  an  im¬ mense  intestine.  However,  instead  of functioning  as  a  digestive  organ,  it now  serves  primarily  to  generate  tiny green  worms,  which  are  taken  to  ar¬ ea  1  where  they  are  absorbed  and used  to  help  nourish  the  newly- spawned  lichlings  in  area  12.
The  valves  leading  to  this  organ emit  a  strong  odor  of  rotting  fish.  The entire  interior  of  the  organ  reeks with  the  same  odor,  emanating  from the  green  worms  magically  generated by  the  organ's  walls  (see  below).
5a:  The  pinkish  walls  of  this  section of  the  organ  are  spongy  and  wet. Thin  pink  tendrils  grow  thickly  on the  walls,  each  about  a  foot  long.  The tendrils  grope  wetly  at  the  passing PCs,  but  do  them  no  harm.
A  carpet  of  writhing  worms  covers the  floor  to  a  depth  of  about  a  foot.
54
f
■JC
Chapter  4;  Sp ifr&Fts  and  Wowras
7Z
The  worms  are  light  green  in  color, slimy,  and  resemble  tiny  eyeless snakes.  Each  is  less  than  half  an  inch long.  The  worms  are  harmless,  but  a PC  who  falls  into  the  worm  carpet must  make  a  Constitution  check  or suffer  extreme  nausea  for  the  next 2d6  rounds,  making  all  attacks  at  a -1  penalty  during  that  time.
5b.  This  section  is  physically  identi¬ cal  to  section  5a.  Six  lichling  servitors can  be  seen  through  the  opening  of this  section,  sitting  in  the  carpet  of worms  covering  the  floor.  Optionally, these  servitors  can  include  trans¬ formed  NPCs  that  the  PCs  met  else¬ where  in  the  dungeon,  such  as Jharold  the  Chosen  (Level  2,  area  7g).
Lichling  servitors  (6):  Int  semi;  AL CE;  AC  2;  MV  12;  HD  6;  hP  45; THACO  15;  #AT  2;  Dmg  2d6/2d6 (claws);  SD  can  only  be  struck  by +1  or  better  magical  weapons;  im¬ mune  to  poison,  charm,  sleep,  en- feeblement,  polymorph,  fear,  cold, electricity,  insanity,  and  death spells;  SZ  L;  ML  15;  XP  975.
If  the  PCs  specifically  state  that they  are  moving  past  the  opening  to area  5b  quietly  and  slowly,  the  servi¬ tors  don't  notice  them.  However,  if any  PC  speaks  in  a  voice  louder  than a  whisper,  if  the  party  moves  rapidly through  the  worm  carpet,  or  if  the party  takes  any  other  action  to  draw attention,  the  servitors  rise  and charge  the  party.
The  snarling  servitors  attack  sav¬ agely  with  their  claws  and  teeth;  the servitors  aren't  required  to  make Constitution  checks  if  they  fall  in  the worm  carpet.  The  servitors  pursue into  area  5a  or  5c;  however,  they  will not  leave  the  organ,  nor  will  they  en¬ ter  area  5d  or  5e.
A  valve  opening  near  the  floor  of the  south  wall  produces  a  steady  suc¬ tion  to  draw  out  dead  worms.  The dead  worms  are  taken  by  a  duct  (area 6)  to  the  modified  gall  bladder  (area lc)  where  they  eventually  decom¬ pose.
5c:  This  section  is  identical  to  sec¬ tion  5a,  except  that  the  worm  carpet
is  3'  deep,  reducing  PC  movement rates  by  half.
5d:  This  section  is  identical  to  5a, except  that  the  tendrils  average  5' long.  The  tendrils  lash  at  the  PCs  like long  whips,  inflicting  ld4  damage  per round.  A  PC  hacking  the  tendrils  with a  blade  weapon  reduces  the  damage by  half  (minimum  1  hp  per  round). The  tendrils  do  not  attack  PCs  hold¬ ing  torches  or  wielding  other  fire- producing  objects.
5e:  The  walls  of  this  section  are pink,  smooth,  and  narrow,  averaging about  4'  in  diameter.  There  are  no worms  on  the  floor,  and  the  tendrils from  the  walls  are  only  about  half  an inch  long.
6.  Worth  Duct
This  is  the  same  as  a  normal  Stench Duct,  except  the  floor  is  strewn  with green  worm  corpses  (as  in  area  1).  A gentle  suction  draws  the  worms steadily  from  area  5b.
A  20' -long  green  tube  worm  (a  dis¬ tant  cousin  of  the  giant  centipede  and the  tunnel  worm)  lies  coiled  on  the floor,  buried  beneath  the  worm  car¬ pet.
Tube  worm:  Int  animal;  AL  N;  AC  4; MV  6;  HD  9  +  3;  hp  70;  THACO  11;
#AT  1;  Dmg  2d4;  SA  lunging  (see
below);  SZ  G;  ML  12;  XP  1,400.
Two  rounds  after  the  party  enters this  section,  a  random  PC  feels  a  thick snake-like  creature  wrap  around  his or  her  legs;  the  worm  then  surfaces and  lunges  at  the  PC,  striking  with  a +2  bonus  to  its  attack.  If  the  strike succeeds,  the  victim  is  seized  in  the worm's  mandibles;  if  the  strike  fails, it  continues  to  strike  at  its  chosen  vic¬ tim  with  normal  attacks.  A  seized  vic¬ tim  takes  no  damage  until  the  worm chews  through  the  victim's  armor (one  round  for  chain  mail  or  worse armor,  two  rounds  for  armor  strong¬ er  than  chain  mail).  Thereafter  the worm  inflicts  an  automatic  2d8  dam¬ age  per  round.  Until  the  worm  is  re¬ duced  to  0  hp,  it  will  not  release  its victim.
If  the  servitors  from  5b  pursued the  party  here,  the  giant  worm  and the  servitors  do  not  attack  each  other. The  worm  will  not  pursue  the  party from  this  section.
7.  ScReAmiwg  Zowe
PCs  in  the  portions  of  the  ducts within  the  dotted  line  telepathically hear  echoing  human  screams.  The anguished  screams  persist  as  long  as the  PCs  remain  within  this  area  and grow  louder  as  the  PCs  near  area  8. The  PCs  suffer  no  penalties  from  the screams.
8.  Modified  Stomach
This  organ  was  formerly  an  im¬ mense  stomach.  However,  instead  of functioning  as  a  digestive  organ,  it now  channels  fear  from  the  agonized spirits  trapped  inside  to  feed  the  lichl- ings.  The  spirits  come  from  intruders who  died  in  the  stronghold.  Icelia's magic  transferred  the  spirits  here  to endlessly  contain  and  tap  their  linger¬ ing  emotions.  A  capillary  bundle transmits  their  emotions  to  the  brain (area  12).
The  valves  leading  to  this  organ emit  ear-piercing  screams  and  a strong  odor  of  sour  milk.  A  PC  who touches  a  valve  is  instantly  trans¬ ported  to  a  pool  of  thick  fluid  about  3' deep,  which  fills  the  entire  floor  of the  huge  bag-shaped  organ.  The  pul¬ sating  yellow  walls  ooze  milky  fluid that  splashes  heavily  into  the  pool.
The  air  reeks  of  sour  milk.  The odor  is  so  powerful  that  each  PC must  make  a  Constitution  check  or become  violently  nauseated  for  ld4 rounds,  taking  ld2  damage  per round  of  sickness.
Dozens  of  shrieking  ghostly  human images  soar  through  the  air  over  the pool;  their  screams  are  so  loud  that PCs  must  shout  to  hear  one  another. The  PCs  cannot  communicate  with the  spirits,  nor  can  they  do  anything about  the  spirits'  plight.
Eight  muck-men  (distant  cousins  of mud-men)  dwell  on  the  bottom  of  the pool.  Their  abilities  mimic  those  of
55
normal  mud-men,  though  their bodies  consist  of  yellowish  organic matter  and  tissue.
Muck-men  (8):  Int  non;  AL  CE;  AC  8; MV  3;  HD  5;  hP  39  each;  THACO  15; #AT  1;  Dmg  special  (see  below);  SA muck-throwing,  suffocation  (see below);  SD  harmed  only  by  +1  or better  weapons;  vulnerable  to  all spells  that  cause  damage  to  living creatures;  dispel  magic  and  dig  act as  fireballs  cast  at  same  level  of  the caster;  SZ  M;  ML  not  applicable (see  text);  XP  650.
The  muck-men  look  like  stocky  hu¬ manoids  made  from  yellow  muck  im¬ bedded  with  reddish  chunks  of tissue.  Their  eyes  are  pools  of  black shadow.  The  muck-men  attack  the PCs  by  hurling  muck.  (PCs  are  consid¬ ered  AC  10,  modified  by  Dexterity, for  these  attacks.)  The  muck  hardens on  impact  and  slows  the  victim's movement  rate  by  1  if  it  hits.  While hurling  muck,  the  muck-men  con¬ tinue  to  advance.  When  within  101,  a
muck-man  hurls  himself  at  a  victim.  A hit  means  the  muck-man's  death,  but slows  the  victim's  movement  by  4;  if the  muck-man  misses,  it  must  spend the  next  round  re-forming  before  it can  attack  again.  A  muck-man  cannot be  attacked  while  re-forming.
A  victim  reduced  to  a  movement rate  of  0  begins  to  suffocate,  suffer¬ ing  ld8  damage  per  round  until  a companion  takes  one  round  to  clear the  victim's  nose  and  mouth.  A  vic¬ tim's  movement  can  be  restored  at  a rate  of  1  per  five  rounds  of  scraping off  muck.  Muck-men  will  not  leave the  organ  to  pursue  the  PCs.
Five  rounds  after  the  muck-men  ap¬ pear,  the  spirits  begin  to  swarm  over the  PCs,  wailing  like  sirens.  So  distract¬ ing  are  these  actions,  which  persist  as long  as  the  party  remains  in  the  organ, that  the  PCs  make  all  attacks  at  a  -2 penalty.  The  PCs  can  do  nothing  to  de¬ ter  the  spirits.  The  muck-men  are  unaf¬ fected  by  the  shrieking  spirits.
A  passage  opening  on  the  north wall  of  the  organ  is  blocked  by  thick chunks  of  yellowish  muck.  Beyond
this  passage  is  the  only  valve  that  ex¬ its  from  the  organ.  To  clear  the  pas¬ sage,  the  PCs  must  inflict  40  hp damage  on  it;  the  blockage  is  AC  5.
9.  Modified  PdbJCizedS
This  organ  was  formerly  an  immense pancreas.  However,  instead  of  produc¬ ing  digestive  juices,  it  now  produces the  poisonous  yellow  mist  filling  the  li¬ lac  ducts.  The  interior  of  the  organ  is completely  filled  with  mist,  produced by  hundreds  of  tiny  spigots  covering the  spongy  yellow  walls.
The  valves  leading  to  this  organ  emit an  exceptionally  powerful  aroma  of  li¬ lac.  A  PC  transported  inside  the  organ suffers  the  effects  of  a  lilac  duct.  How¬ ever,  the  poison  is  so  concentrated  in the  organ  that  the  2C/XA  pellets  have no  effect  on  it;  nothing  less  than  the power  of  a  wish  can  negate  the  effects of  exposure  to  the  deadly  mist.
10.  HedizTbedT  Zone
PCs  in  the  portions  of  the  ducts within  the  dotted  line  hear  in  their heads  the  faint  echoed  sounds  of  a slowly  beating  heart.  The  sounds  per¬ sist  as  long  as  the  PCs  remain  within this  area  and  grow  louder  as  the  PCs near  area  11.  The  PCs  suffer  no  pen¬ alties  from  the  sounds.
11.  Modified  Hedjit
This  organ  was  formerly  an  im¬ mense  heart.  However,  instead  of pumping  blood,  it  now  serves  primar¬ ily  as  a  prison  for  the  spirit  of  Amry Wolover.  The  valves  leading  to  this  or¬ gan  emit  a  faint  coppery  odor.  All  ar¬ eas  of  the  heart  pulsate  in  a  slow, even  beat,  matching  the  rhythm  of the  faint  heartbeats  the  party  contin¬ uously  hears  in  their  heads  while  ex¬ ploring  the  organ.  Neither  the  sounds nor  the  pulsations  have  any  signifi¬ cant  effect  on  the  party's  abilities  to move  or  take  any  other  actions.
11a:  This  pinkish  sac  secretes  a  wa¬ tery  fluid  from  small  pores  in  its  slick walls.  The  humid  air  smells  like  rot¬ ten  meat.  The  PCs'  heads  throb  while
56
fl
Chapter?  4:  Spiders  aioft  Woritjs
it
r
Xl
moving  through  this  section,  and their  breathing  is  labored,  but  they suffer  no  ill  effects.
lib:  A  thick  layer  of  greasy  fat coats  the  walls  and  floor  of  this  cham¬ ber.  The  party  sinks  in  the  floor  fat  to a  depth  of  6",  reducing  their  move¬ ment  rates  by  half.  Before  exiting  this chamber,  they  hear  a  soft  voice  in their  heads  saying,  "I  can  feel  you near  .  .  .  come  closer  ..."
The  PCs  may  have  heard  the  same voice  earlier,  telling  them  to  "come  to the  heart."  This  is  the  voice  of  Amry Wolover.
11c:  Like  area  lib,  this  lO'-long passage  is  covered  with  fat.  As  soon as  the  first  PC  enters  the  passage,  the entire  passage  constricts  like  a  Con¬ stricting  duct  (see  the  Map  Features section).
lid:  Webs  of  fibrous  muscle  tissue completely  fill  this  chamber,  reduc¬ ing  movement  rates  by  2/3.  Three  2'- diameter  spiders  cling  to  the  ceiling, hidden  behind  a  thick  net  of  tissue. Two  rounds  after  the  first  PC  enters the  chamber,  the  spiders  scuttle  to¬ wards  the  party.  The  spider  have pink  bodies,  clusters  of  white  eyes, and  long  fangs  dripping  yellowish venom.
Heart  spiders  (3):  Int  animal;  AL  N; AC  7;  MV  6  (on  normal  surfaces)  or 18  (on  fibrous  tissue  webs,  as  in  ar¬ ea  lid);  HD  2;  hP  14  each;  THACO 19;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld4;  SA  poison (save  vs.  poison  or  suffer  3d8  dam¬ age  from  venom);  SZ  S;  ML  8;  XP 270.
The  spiders  attack  aggressively, fighting  to  the  death.  The  spiders pursue  to  area  lib,  but  will  not  enter other  areas  of  the  organ.
lie:  The  walls  of  this  duct  are crusty  and  dry.  The  PCs  suffer  no  ill effects  from  moving  through  the duct.
Ilf:  This  is  identical  to  area  lid, except  that  there  are  no  spiders.
llg:  This  passage  is  similar  to  the 11c  passage,  except  that  it  is  tightly clenched  shut.  The  slightest  pres¬ sure,  such  as  the  touch  of  a  PC's
hand,  causes  it  to  open.  The  Con¬ stricting  duct  effect  does  not  occur  in this  passage.
llh:  As  in  lib,  a  thick  layer  of greasy  fat  coats  the  walls  of  this chamber.  The  fat  layer  covering  the floor  is  translucent.  Suspended  in  the floor  fat  is  the  ghostly  image  of  a bald-headed  man  with  pleading  blue eyes  and  a  curly  blonde  beard;  he wears  a  long  robe  covered  with  small circles.  The  image  is  immobile, trapped  in  the  fat  like  an  insect  fro¬ zen  in  an  amber  block.  A  capillary bundle  leads  from  the  head  of  the  im¬ age  to  the  north  wall.
The  image  represents  the  spirit  of Amry  Wolover.  The  image  cannot  act, aside  from  communicating  with  the PCs.
The  eyes  of  the  image  flicker  and glow,  dancing  over  the  bodies  of  the party.  The  party  hears  a  soft  voice  in their  heads.
"I  had  nearly  given  up  hope,"  says the  voice,  "but  someone  has  heard my  cries  at  last.  I  am  the  spirit  of Amry  Wolover— at  one  time,  a  wizard of  some  renown.  But  I  fear  that  I  may be  forever  remembered  as  the  man responsible  for  the  end  of  the  world."
Amry  continues  to  speak  in  a  slow, even  tones  that  the  PCs  hear  in  their heads.  If  the  PCs  interrupt,  he  asks them  to  wait  and  ask  their  questions later:  "It  is  important  that  you  know this  first."
"Nearly  300  years  ago,  I  built  a  keep in  the  Veilstone  Peaks  where  I  could conduct  my  experiments  undis¬ turbed.  My  expertise  was  in  the  field of  agriculture.  I  hoped  that  from  my research,  the  poor  farmers  of  my homeland  would  some  day  flourish and  prosper.  But  the  research  was frustrating  and  slow.  And  I  became careless."  Wolover  explains  that  a failed  experiment  accidentally  poi¬ soned  a  lake  near  the  keep  (Lilac Lake,  which  the  PCs  may  have  inves¬ tigated  in  Chapter  1).  "I  feared  the poisoned  lake  would  eventually  con¬ taminate  all  of  the  ground  water, making  the  surrounding  communi¬ ties  uninhabitable."  Despite  his  best efforts,  Wolover  was  unable  to  purify
the  lake.
"Shortly  thereafter,"  he  continues, "I  was  visited  by  a  creature  named Icelia,  an  unholy  monstrosity  who  of¬ fered  to  decontaminate  the  lake  in  ex¬ change  for  permission  to  enter  my mind  and  sample  my  thoughts.  In desperation,  I  agreed.  It  was  a  grave mistake."
With  Wolover' s  defenses  relaxed, Icelia  not  only  entered  Wolover's mind,  but  took  control  of  it.  Icelia killed  him,  destroyed  his  body,  and enslaved  his  spirit.  She  ignored  her promise  to  decontaminate  the  lake. (The  lake  remains  poisoned,  but  the ground  water  was  never  contami¬ nated  as  Wolover  feared.)  With  her own  powerful  magic  supplemented by  Wolover's  arcane  knowledge,  Ice¬ lia  transformed  her  body  into  an  im¬ mense  husk,  designed  to  generate and  incubate  a  multitude  of  spawns. Wolover  tells  the  PCs  that  they  are standing  inside  the  heart  of  her  husk at  this  very  moment.
"Her  lichling  spawns  are  being  gen¬ erated  from  corrupted  cells  in  the brain  cavity  of  the  husk,"  Wolover says.  "There  are  thousands  of  matur¬ ing  lichlings  already,  nourished  by the  fear  and  trauma  of  doomed  in¬ truders  who  were  lured  into  Icelia's stronghold  by  the  promise  of  trea¬ sure.
"The  lichlings  grow  stronger  every day.  See  for  yourselves  what  Icelia has  planned  when  her  spawn  have fully  matured."
Wolover  instructs  the  PCs  to  place their  hands  on  the  floor  over  his  im¬ age.  PCs  who  touch  the  floor  as  di¬ rected  lapse  into  unconsciousness  (no saving  throw)  and  experience  a  vivid dream,  the  end  of  one  image  dissolv¬ ing  into  the  beginning  of  the  next:
•  An  80' -tall  insectile  creature  re¬ sembling  a  black  cockroach  with spindly  human  arms  and  legs,  a pair  of  ragged  gauzy  wings,  and  a grinning  skull  for  a  face,  stalks through  a  village.  Terrified  hu¬ mans  scatter  at  its  approach.  Spells cast  at  it  bounce  off  its  shell  as  it easily  destroys  the  village.
57
12.  Modified  Bra)nj
•  An  army  of  the  insectile  creatures stomp  through  a  forest,  trees  snap¬ ping  like  twigs  beneath  their  feet. There  are  thousands  of  creatures in  the  army.
The  dream  fades,  and  the  PCs  re¬ gain  consciousness.  "If  Icelia's  spawn mature,  the  world  as  we  know  it  is doomed,"  says  Wolover.
Wolover  answers  the  PCs'  questions as  described  below.  If  the  PCs  don't ask  the  right  questions,  Wolover  of¬ fers  any  of  the  following  information you  feel  the  PCs  should  have.
What  else  do  you  know  about Icelia?:  Wolover  knows  all  the  infor¬ mation  in  "DM's  Background"  in  the Introduction.
How  long  will  it  take  the  lich- lings  to  mature?:  Wolover  has  de¬ tected  a  recent  increase  in supernatural  activity  in  the  husk;  he suspects  the  time  of  maturation  is near.
How  can  we  stop  Icelia?:  "To  de¬ stroy  Icelia,  you  must  destroy  her skull."  Wolover  doesn't  know  exactly how  to  reach  her  skull,  nor  is  he  sure how  to  destroy  it.
Where  can  we  find  Icelia?:  "I
sense  her  skull  in  a  misty  sea  to  the north.  You  are  close  to  it  now."
What  is  the  purpose  of  the tube  that  connects  your  head  to the  wall?:  "The  tube  extracts  magi¬ cal  energies  from  my  spirit,  deliver¬ ing  them  to  the  remnants  of  Icelia's corrupted  brain  in  order  to  stimulate the  production  of  new  lichlings.  Simi¬ lar  tubes  throughout  the  husk  deliver other  fluids  and  gasses  to  the  brain." Wolover  explains  that  destroying  the tube  is  futile,  as  it  is  enchanted  to  in¬ stantly  regenerate.
When  the  PCs  have  finished  their questions,  Wolover  bids  them  good luck.  If  the  PCs  wish  to  release  Wo¬ lover' s  spirit,  they  can  do  so  by  cast¬ ing  remove  curse  or  wish.  If  the  spirit is  released,  it  whispers  its  thanks  and then  it  disappears  in  a  flash  of  soft light  and  is  never  seen  again.
Formerly  an  immense  brain,  this organ  serves  now  as  the  birthplace  of new  lichlings.  The  organ  emits  a  nau¬ seating  blend  of  sour  milk,  lilacs,  or¬ anges,  and  rotten  eggs,  detectable  by PCs  outside  the  southern  valve.
PCs  touching  the  valve  are  instantly transported  to  a  ledge  of  spongy  red tissue  (12a).  The  stench  is  so  powerful inside  the  organ  that  every  PC  who enters  must  make  a  Constitution check;  failure  means  violent  nausea from  the  stench,  taking  2d4  damage, and  a  fall  to  the  ground.  The  ill  PC cannot  act  for  the  next  2d4  rounds.
A  bridge  of  spongy  tissue  leads from  the  ledge  to  a  circle  of  orange mist  near  the  north  wall  (12b).  Any PC  who  touches  the  mist  is  instantly transported  to  area  13.
The  bridge  crosses  a  pool  of  thick fluid  with  yellowish  lumps;  the  lumps are  masses  of  tissue.  The  PCs  may have  seen  a  similar  pool  in  area  17  in Chapter  3.  The  pool  is  about  10'  deep; PCs  immersed  in  the  pool  suffer  an automatic  2d4  points  of  poison  dam¬ age  per  round  of  exposure  to  the  foul liquid  (no  saving  throw).
The  walls  of  the  cavern  are  matri¬ ces  of  shiny  black  bubbles,  each  no more  than  an  inch  in  diameter.  The bubble  walls  crackle  with  bluish webs  of  static  electricity.  A  PC  who touches  a  wall  suffers  3d6  points  of electrical  damage  (save  vs.  spells  for half  damage).
About  5%  of  the  bubbles  have  tiny skulls,  gauzy  wings,  or  bony  arms protruding  from  them.  Occasionally, a  few  of  these  bubbles  fall  from  the wall  and  plop  into  the  fluid  pool  be¬ low,  sinking  out  of  sight.  Every  few minutes,  a  6"  lichling  pulls  itself  free of  a  bubble,  swoops  towards  the  mist circle  (12a),  and  disappears.
The  bubbles  are  modified  brain cells.  Each  produces  a  bud  that  gener¬ ates  a  new  lichling.  The  walls  are  en¬ riched  by  capillary  bundles  that deliver  fluids  and  gasses  from  the  or¬ gans  elsewhere  in  the  husk.  The  bub¬ bles  plopping  into  the  fluid  are defective  lichlings,  which  are  sucked
away  by  tubes  in  the  bottom  of  the pool  to  be  deposited  in  a  dead  pool  — area  17  in  Chapter  3— where  they eventually  rot  away.  The  flying  crea¬ tures  are  freshly  spawned  lichlings that  are  heading  to  area  13.
Neither  the  new  spawns  nor  the  de¬ fects  attack  the  PCs  in  this  chamber. Attacks  directed  against  the  bubble matrices  are  futile,  since  the  bubbles instantly  regenerate.
Two  thick  red  stalks  (12c)  extend from  the  north  wall,  writhing  like huge  serpents.  The  stalks  end  in  bulg¬ ing  black  eyeballs  with  fiery  red  pu¬ pils.  The  eyestalks  recoil  when  the party  enters  the  chamber,  hovering motionless  like  cobras.
Eyestalks  (2):  Int  semi;  AL  N;  AC  1; MV  12;  HD  9;  hp  70  each;  THACO 11;  #AT  1;  Dmg  6d4  (electric  bolt; save  vs.  spells  for  half  damage)  or 2dl0  (butting  attack);  SD  immune to  cold-,  heat-,  and  electricity- based  attacks;  SZ  G;  ML  17;  XP 3,000.
Two  rounds  after  the  party  enters the  chamber,  the  eyestalks  attack. Once  per  round,  each  eyestalk  can blast  electric  bolts  (6d4;  save  vs.  spells for  half  damage)  or  make  butting  at¬ tacks  by  swinging  their  eyes  like clubs  (2dl0).  A  PC  on  the  tissue  bridge who  is  butted  must  make  a  Dexterity check  or  fall  into  the  fluid  pool.  Both attacks  require  normal  attack  rolls. Either  attack  can  be  directed  against any  PC  in  the  chamber;  however,  the stalks  don't  attack  PCs  who  are  sub¬ merged  in  the  fluid  pool.
The  stalks  are  AC  1,  HD  9,  and  have 70  hp.  Severing  the  stalks  doesn't  de¬ ter  their  attacks;  the  severed  stalks fly  in  the  air  at  a  movement  rate  of  FI 12  (C)  and  continue  their  attacks  as before.  The  eyes  continue  to  attack  as long  as  a  living  PC  remains  in  the chamber.
Light  attacks  no  longer  blind  these eyes,  but  they  do  have  other  effects. Continual  light,  color  spray  and  oth¬ er  'blinding'  spells  — if  successfully cast  directly  on  the  eyes  and  not  the stalks  —  cancel  the  eyes'  electrical
58
bolt  attacks  for  ld3  rounds.
15.  THE  SEA  AND THE  SKULL
Read  the  following  aloud  after  the PCs  have  disappeared  into  the  orange mist  in  the  modified  brain  (area  12). The  PCs  awaken  together  in  the  Ar¬ rival  Area  indicated  on  the  map.
The  blood  pounds  in  your  temples as  your  head  clears  and  you  open your  eyes.  You  are  sprawled  on your  back  on  a  beach  of  bone  meal, staring  upward  into  a  black  void.
An  icy  wind  stings  you  like  a  bar¬ rage  of  tiny  needles,  and  you  smell the  salty  air  of  the  ocean.  To  the east,  wisps  of  gray  mist  rise  from  a dark  sea,  its  rolling  waves  lapping gently  against  the  ivory  shore. Chipped  cylindrical  bones,  the  size of  huge  logs,  litter  the  shore,  along with  many  other  bones  that  look like  oversized  finger  joints,  human ribs,  and  teeth.  Large  black  fan¬ shaped  objects  stick  up  from  the sand;  these  look  like  the  shredded wings  of  giant  insects.
Sheer  cliffs  of  black  rock  enclose the  cove  west  of  the  seashore,  ex¬ tending  as  high  as  you  can  see. Shiny  curtains  of  black  specks  cov¬ er  every  square  inch  of  the  cliffs. The  curtains  ripple  slightly,  and you  realize  the  curtains  are  alive. They're  made  of  thousands  upon thousands  of  motionless  insects.
Near  the  far  west  wall  are  the  re¬ mains  of  an  immense  cockroach¬ like  creature  nearly  80'  long.  It's lying  on  its  back  in  the  sand,  sur¬ rounded  by  piles  of  shattered bones  and  shredded  wings.  The corpse  is  not  much  more  than  a black  shell  and  two  tattered  wings. Two  enormously  long  human  arm bones  and  a  pair  of  bent  and  twist¬ ed  human  leg  bones  extend  from the  corpse's  shell.  The  creature  has a  human  skull  for  a  head.
An  image  appears  like  a  mirage on  the  surface  of  the  mist  sea about  30  yards  from  the  shore.  A ghostly  humanoid  stands  on  the bow  of  a  gleaming  ship  made  of  hu¬ man  bones.  The  ship  has  tattered sails  of  black  gauze.  As  the  ship nears  the  shore,  pinpoints  of  light flare  in  the  ghost's  eye  sockets,  and it  raises  a  fist  to  the  sky.  "Icelia!"  it cries,  "fresh  food  for  your  chil¬ dren!"
From  high  above  comes  a  rumble of  thunder.  The  ghost  cries  to  the insects  on  the  cliffs  behind  you, "Prepare  to  feed!"
This  gigantic  cavern  is  the  main  in¬ cubation  chamber  for  the  lichlings (the  insectile  creatures  clinging  to  the granite  cliffs).  The  cliffs  function  as immense  storage  batteries  for  the fear,  emotional  trauma,  and  other negative  emotions  drawn  here  from elsewhere  in  the  stronghold.  Most  of the  lichlings  are  dormant  while  they feed  on  the  stored  emotions  from  the cliffs.
Periodically,  a  freshly  spawned  lich- ling  from  the  brain  chamber  (area  12) appears  in  mid-air  (transferred  from the  orange  mist  in  area  12),  then  flut¬ ters  to  a  cliff  wall  where  it  stops  mov¬ ing  and  begins  to  feed.  Occasionally,  a lichling  detaches  from  the  wall,  soars in  a  lazy  circle,  then  vanishes  into  one of  dozens  of  small  holes  in  the  cliff; these  holes  lead  to  lichling  tubes, which  take  the  lichlings  to  various  lo¬ cations  in  the  stronghold,  enabling them  to  feast  directly  on  the  fresh emotions  of  new  intruders  who  are succumbing  to  the  stronghold's  dead¬ ly  traps  and  minions.
If  the  PCs  come  within  20'  of  a  cliff, waves  of  discomfort  and  panic  wash over  them,  though  they  suffer  no  ill effects.  Those  who  come  within  10'  of a  cliff  are  immediately  overwhelmed with  anguish.  They  drop  to  the ground  and  shiver  for  the  next  10 rounds  (no  saving  throw),  and  they
cannot  act  during  that  time.
The  dormant  lichlings  do  not  de¬ fend  themselves  if  attacked.  How¬ ever,  make  it  clear  to  the  players  that there  are  hundreds  of  thousands  of lichlings  here,  and  destroying  them all  is  impossible.  The  cliffs  extend  for a  mile  in  the  air!
The  80'  creature  is  the  dried-out corpse  of  a  fully-mature  lichling.  The PCs  recognize  the  corpse  as  identical to  the  creatures  shown  to  them  in Wolover's  dream  in  area  11.  Unable  to thrive,  the  creature  died.  The  debris surrounding  the  corpse,  as  well  as  the bones  floating  near  the  shore,  are  all that's  left  of  other  dead  mature  lichl¬ ings.
The  sea  is  icy  cold  but  is  otherwise comparable  to  normal  sea  water.  The water  averages  about  50'  deep  and contains  nothing  of  interest  to  the party.  PCs  immersed  in  the  icy  water must  make  Constitution  checks. Those  who  fail  suffer  ld4  damage  per five  rounds  of  immersion;  those  who succeed  suffer  1  point  of  damage  per 10  rounds  of  immersion.  The  gray mist  smells  faintly  like  rotten  fish  but causes  no  ill  effects.
If  the  PCs  attack  the  bone  ship  prior to  Round  6  of  the  battle  described  be¬ low,  the  ship  sinks  beneath  the  sur¬ face  of  the  water.  The  PCs  cannot locate  it  or  harm  it.  The  ship  resur¬ faces  on  Round  6  of  the  battle.
The  boat  is  actually  the  poly- morplied  skull  of  Icelia.  The  ghostly humanoid  is  Zhorach.
Zhorach  (ghost):  Int  14;  AL  CE;  AC  0 (prime  material  plane)  or  8  (ethere¬ al  plane);  MV  9;  HD  10;  hp  60; THAC0  11;  #AT  1;  Dmg  age  10d4 years;  SA  magic  jar  attack;  SD when  ghost  is  ethereal,  only  at¬ tacks  from  the  ethereal  plane  hit  it; when  semi-materialized,  is  hit  only by  silver  weapons  (half  damage)  or magical  weapons  (full  damage);  SZ M;  ML  18;  XP  7,000.
Zhorach  asked  Icelia  for  the  plea-
59
sure  of  helping  to  destroy  the  party; the  overhead  thunder  indicated  Ice- lia's  agreement.  Zhorach  will  not  ne¬ gotiate  with  the  PCs.
The  Battle  of  the M)sTy  Sea
The  battle  begins  immediately  after Zhorach  reaches  the  shore.  The  bat¬ tle  plays  out  as  described  below;  feel free  to  have  its  events  occur  sooner or  later,  if  you  wish.
PCs  who  have  had  previous  experi¬ ence  with  liches  may  notice  some  dif¬ ferences  with  Icelia;  unlike  many other  liches,  she  and  all  her  creatures fight  to  the  death.  She  feels  she  has too  much  at  stake  here  to  retreat.
If  necessary,  creatures  pursue  into the  sea.  All  creatures  can  move  on  the surface  of  the  water  or  along  the  sea floor  at  their  normal  movement  rates.
The  battle  continues  until  Icelia' s skull  is  on  the  verge  of  being  de¬ stroyed  (for  instance,  it  has  lost  2/3  of its  hit  points).  At  that  point,  proceed to  the  "Orange  Circle"  section,  below.
Round  1:  Zhorach  advances  to¬ wards  the  nearest  PC.  Zhorach  at¬ tacks  the  party's  most  powerful spellcaster  (or  other  powerful  PC,  if there  are  no  spellcasters)  from  the ethereal  plane  with  its  magic  jar  spell. If  the  spell  is  successful,  the  victim's soul  is  trapped  in  a  hollow  finger bone  lying  in  the  bone  meal;  the  bone gives  off  a  slight  glow  if  used  as  a  mag¬ ic  jar  receptacle.  Regardless  of whether  the  magic  jar  succeeds, Zhorach  semi-materializes  (in  the form  of  a  human  male  with  long stringy  hair)  and  continues  to  attack with  its  touch.  The  semi-materialized ghost  is  AC  0.
To  adjudicate  effects  of  the  ghost's aging  touch,  see  "Other  Characteris¬ tics"  in  Chapter  2  of  the  Player's Handbook.
Round  2:  The  mature  lichling corpse  shudders  and  pulls  itself  up  on its  arms  and  legs.
Animated  lichling  corpse:  Int
semi;  AL  CE;  AC  3;  MV  9;  HD  20;  hp
150;  THACO  5;  #AT  3;  Dmg  2dl0/ 2dl0/4d6;  SA  spew  bone  frag¬ ments  (see  text);  SD  immune  to charm,  sleep,  enfeeblement,  poly¬ morph,  cold,  electricity,  fear,  insan¬ ity,  or  death  spells;  SZ  G;  ML  20;  XP 12,000.
The  animated  corpse  lumbers  to¬ wards  the  party,  striking  at  random PCs  with  its  razor-sharp  claws  and biting  them  with  its  mandibles.  When no  victim  is  within  claw  or  mandible range,  it  can  spew  a  stream  of  razor- sharp  bone  fragments  at  any  single target  up  to  100'  away  (make  normal attack  roll)  to  inflict  6d6  damage.  It can  make  this  attack  once  every  other round.
Round  4:  The  sea  beneath  the bone  ship  begins  to  boil.  Fingers  of steam  embrace  the  ship  as  it  glows with  a  soft  green  light.
Round  6:  The  bone  ship  shatters to  dust.  In  its  place  is  a  hovering  skull covered  with  withered  and  rotting flesh.  Shanks  of  long  matted  hair  ex¬ tend  from  the  scalp.  Intense  pin¬ points  of  red  light  shine  from  the black  eye  sockets.
This  is  the  skull  of  Icelia.  The  visage is  similar  to  that  of  the  ivory  head  in area  33  of  Chapter  3.  Eight  of  the skull's  teeth  have  been  replaced  with black  diamonds.
Immediately  after  it  appears,  the skull  unleashes  a  howl  that  acts  as  a death  ray,  affecting  all  PCs  within  a 20'-radius  of  its  mouth.  Those  who fail  to  save  vs.  spells  are  permanently dead.
On  the  following  round  and  every round  thereafter,  the  skull  casts  trap the  soul  on  one  of  the  PCs  within  a 20'-radius;  the  spell  is  directed  at spellcasters  first,  then  at  all  non- spellcasters.  The  targeted  PC  is  al¬ lowed  to  save  vs.  spells;  if  the  saving throw  fails,  the  victim's  body  col¬ lapses  and  rots  away  in  a  single round;  the  victim's  spirit  is  then trapped  inside  one  of  the  skull's  tooth gems.  (An  amulet  of  life  protection prevails  over  the  tooth  gem,  but  the victim's  body  perishes  regardless.)
When  the  skull  has  attempted  trap
the  soul  on  all  PCs,  it  then  casts  curse on  the  survivors  (one  PC  per  round, within  a  20' -radius).  A  targeted  PC who  fails  to  save  vs.  spells  automati¬ cally  fails  all  saving  throws  from  then on.  The  curse  can  be  overcome  with remove  curse,  but  the  victim  perma¬ nently  loses  one  point  of  Charisma when  the  curse  is  removed.
The  skull  is  AC  -6  and  has  50  hp.  It can  fly  at  a  movement  rate  of  FI  12  (C). It  is  only  affected  by  these  spells:  for¬ get  (Delia's  skull  sinks  away  beneath the  sea  without  attacking),  dispel  evil (dmg  ld4  +  4),  shatter  (dmg  3d6),  holy word  (dmg  5d6),  and  power  word,  kill (destroys  skull  if  cast  by  an  ethereal or  astral  wizard).  The  only  weapons inflicting  full  damage  are  vorpal swords,  swords  of  sharpness,  and s words  +5  if  wielded  by  fighters  or rangers.  Paladins  wielding  vorpal  +4 or  better  weapons  inflict  normal damage.  Any  character  wielding Stonesplitter  inflicts  normal  damage. Any  PC  with  a  +4  or  better  weapon or  a  mace  of  disruption  inflicts  1  point of  damage  per  strike.  Other  weapons are  useless.
The  OfcAwge  Ofcde
When  Delia's  skull  senses  its  de¬ struction  is  imminent,  it  opens  its jaws  and  speaks  to  the  party  in  a  men¬ acing  hiss.  "Destroy  me,"  it  says,  "and  I vow  that  my  children  will  destroy your  world."  Beams  of  violet  light stream  from  the  skull's  eyes  and sweep  over  the  cliffs.  The  dormant lichlings  begin  to  stir,  their  wings beating  in  a  slow,  steady  rhythm.  The lichlings  don't  leave  the  cliffs,  how¬ ever,  and  the  battle  continues  as  de¬ scribed  above.
If  Delia's  skull  is  reduced  to  0  hp  or otherwise  destroyed  (as  from  power word,  kill),  it  crumbles  to  dust.  Those trapped  in  the  tooth  gems  must  save vs.  spells.  Those  who  fail  are  lost  for¬ ever.  Those  who  succeed  cause  their gem  to  glow  faintly;  true  seeing  re¬ veals  a  tiny  figure  trapped  inside.  The soul  is  freed  by  crushing  the  gem;  a new  body  must  be  within  10  yards for  the  soul  to  enter  or  the  spirit  is
60
g:
x
Chapter*  4:  Spiders  and  Worths
*  -  A
r
~fr — r
lost.  If  still  active,  both  Zhorach  and the  animated  lichling  corpse  continue their  attacks.
Immediately  after  the  skull  crum¬ bles,  the  battle  proceeds  as  described below.  Round  1  is  the  first  round  fol¬ lowing  the  skull's  destruction.  As  be¬ fore,  feel  free  to  have  events  occur sooner  or  later,  if  you  wish.
Round  1:  Thunder  begins  to  rum¬ ble  high  overhead.  Bright  streaks  of violet  lightning  rip  the  sky.  The  lich- lings  beat  their  wings  faster.
Round  2:  A  bolt  of  violet  lightning streaks  from  the  sky  and  strikes  an area  of  the  sea  about  200'  from  the shore  (13a).  The  area  begins  to  glow orange.
The  lightning  bolt  has  activated  a gate  leading  to  the  basement  of  Wo- lover's  Keep.  Though  Icelia  intends the  lichlings  to  use  the  gate  to  teleport to  the  surface  world,  the  PCs  can  also use  it  to  return  home.  PCs  unable  to fly  or  employ  similar  magical  means to  reach  the  orange  circle  may  swim the  sea  —  keep  in  mind  possible  dam¬ age  from  exposure  to  the  icy  water  — or  they  can  use  one  of  the  dozens  of hollow  bones  floating  near  the  shore as  a  makeshift  canoe;  the  tattered wings  make  functional  paddles.  Two PCs  can  ride  one  bone  canoe;  the movement  rate  of  the  canoe  is  equiva¬ lent  to  the  movement  rate  of  the  slow¬ est  paddling  PC.
PCs  who  reach  the  orange  circle  are immediately  teleported  to  the  base¬ ment  of  Wolover's  Keep  — proceed  to the  "Victory  or  Defeat"  section  below.
Round  3:  Thousands  of  lichlings detach  from  the  cliffs  and  assemble  in a  vast  swarm  that  hovers  near  the cliff.  The  lichlings  aren't  quite  alert enough  to  attack  the  PCs,  but  the  par¬ ty  may  attack  them  as  described  be¬ low.
Round  4:  The  party  hears  a pounding  sound  coming  from  behind the  lichling  cliffs  (area  13b),  as  if something  imprisoned  behind  the cliffs  is  trying  to  break  through.  The pounding  causes  rocks  to  tumble from  the  sides  of  the  cliff  and  dor¬ mant  lichlings  to  fall  lifelessly  to  the ground.  The  pounding  persists  until
the  special  event  described  below  oc¬ curs.
Round  5:  The  lichling  swarm  be¬ gins  to  flap  towards  the  party.  If  the party  has  divided  into  several  groups, the  swarm  divides  into  an  equivalent number  of  swarms.  Assume  that  hun¬ dreds  of  lichlings  are  available  to  at¬ tack  each  PC.  A  lichling  swarm  has  a movement  rate  of  FI  24  (B).
The  lichling  swarms  attack  all  PCs they  can  reach.  For  convenience,  as¬ sume  that  each  PC  has  a  75%  chance of  suffering  3d6  damage  per  round from  random  lichling  attacks;  a  PC who  is  actively  defending  has  a  25% chance  of  suffering  damage,  and  then takes  only  ld6  points  per  round.
Vary  these  percentages  and amounts  of  damage  to  respond  to  the actions  of  the  PCs;  for  instance,  a  fly¬ ing  PC  who  takes  evasive  action  has little  or  no  chance  of  being  attacked. A  PC  doing  nothing  but  lying  on  the beach  is  an  easy  target  for  the  lich- lings  and  is  likely  to  suffer  more  dam¬ age.
Impress  on  the  players  that  there are  thousands  upon  thousands  of lichlings,  far  too  many  for  the  PCs  to subdue.  As  lichlings  in  the  swarms are  killed,  new  lichlings  become  ac¬ tive  and  detach  themselves  from  the wall  to  join  the  attack.  Fiowever, when  a  PC  uses  the  rod  of  immobile insects  (from  Chapter  1)  on  a  lichling swarm,  the  rest  of  the  lichlings  are temporarily  intimidated  by  this  pow¬ erful  weapon;  the  lichlings  refrain from  attacking  the  holder  of  the  rod of  immobile  insects  and  all  PCs  within a  lO'-radius  of  the  rod  for  the  next ld4  +  1  rounds,  whereupon  they  re¬ sume  their  attacks.
The  lichlings  do  not  pursue  the  PCs into  the  orange  circle  but  instead  hov¬ er  near  its  perimeter.  As  per  Icelia's intentions,  the  lichlings  will  not  in¬ vade  the  surface  world  until  most  of their  number  are  active.
Special  Event:  At  some  dramatic moment  just  before  the  PCs  escape through  the  orange  circle,  an  im¬ mense  crack  opens  in  the  side  of  the cliff  (area  13b).  A  gigantic  bony  hand covered  with  shards  of  rotting  flesh
thrusts  through  the  crack  and  begins to  make  broad  sweeps  over  the  sur¬ face  of  the  sea,  its  fingers  grabbing and  clawing.  This  is  one  arm  of  Ice¬ lia's  husk;  the  party  moved  through the  husk  earlier  in  this  chapter.
The  mindless  arm  attacks  random¬ ly,  splashing  the  surface  of  the  sea, swatting  lichling  swarms,  and  claw¬ ing  at  PCs.  Each  round  after  it  ap¬ pears,  the  arm  makes  a  random sweep  of  the  area;  it  can  reach  any¬ where  in  area  13.  Each  PC  has  a  20% chance  per  round  of  being  swatted  or clawed  by  the  arm.  Swatted  PCs  suf¬ fer  3dl0  damage,  and  a  swatted  PC riding  a  bone  canoe  is  also  knocked into  the  sea.  Since  all  damage  to  the arm  instantly  regenerates,  attacks against  it  are  useless.
VICTORY  OR DEFEAT
If  the  PCs  reach  the  orange  circle, proceed  to  the  "Victory"  section.  If the  PCs  fail  to  destroy  Icelia's  skull  (in which  case  the  orange  circle  won't appear)  and  are  defeated  by  Icelia and  her  minions,  proceed  to  the  "De¬ feat"  section.
Defeat
News  of  the  party's  investigation  of Wolover's  Keep  and  their  subsequent disappearance  quickly  spreads throughout  the  realm.  The  number of  adventurers  entering  the  keep dwindles  dramatically.  After  all,  if  he¬ roes  as  powerful  as  the  PCs  met  their end  in  the  keep,  what  chance  do lesser  mortals  have?
With  a  shortage  of  new  intruders  to nourish  her  lichlings,  Icelia  is  forced to  accelerate  her  plans.  In  10  years, Icelia  sends  about  a  hundred  mature lichlings  into  the  surface  world,  a number  far  short  of  the  massive  ar¬ my  she  originally  envisioned.  The forces  of  Cormyr  rally  to  battle  the lichlings,  eventually  defeating  them at  the  cost  of  many  lives  and  the  near-
61
devastation  of  the  Veilstone  Peaks  re¬ gion.  Following  the  invasion  of  the lichlings,  Wolover's  Keep  mysteri¬ ously  explodes,  collapsing  in  a  heap  of rubble  and  debris.
V)cXory
After  entering  the  orange  circle, the  PCs  lapse  into  unconsciousness.  A moment  later,  they  awaken  in  a  circu¬ lar  room  with  granite  walls.  The  air  is heavy  with  the  smell  of  oranges,  and all  is  silent.  Shattered  barrels,  empty crates,  and  toppled  shelves  lie  against the  walls.  Nearly  the  entire  floor  is filled  with  a  circular  pool  of  orange mist.  The  PCs  recognize  this  room  as the  basement  of  Wolover's  Keep (from  the  end  of  Chapter  1).
Give  the  PCs  a  few  moments  to  get their  bearings.  As  they  try  to  leave the  room,  or  as  they  decide  the  dan¬ ger  is  past,  the  bony  hand  of  Icelia's husk  thrusts  upward  from  the  or¬ ange  pool  and  makes  a  sweeping  rake of  the  room;  each  PC  must  make  a Dexterity  check  to  avoid  being clawed  or  swatted  against  the  wall (3d6  damage).  The  hand  immediately withdraws,  and  the  mist  pool  disap¬ pears,  leaving  only  an  empty  granite floor  behind.
After  the  hand  withdraws,  the room  begins  to  shake.  The  PCs  notice dust  falling  from  the  ceiling  and  gran¬ ite  chips  flaking  from  the  walls, though  the  slight  tremors  aren't strong  enough  to  impede  the  party's actions.  There  is  no  apparent  source of  the  tremors.
(The  death  throes  of  Icelia's  husk, far  below,  are  causing  the  tremors. Her  doom  will  shortly  trigger  an  en¬ chantment,  cast  on  the  keep  long  ago. The  PCs  see  the  effects  of  that  en¬ chantment  shortly.)
The  tremors  persist  as  the  PCs make  their  way  out  of  the  keep  and into  the  night  air.  Stress  that  explora¬ tion  of  the  keep  at  this  point  would  be most  unwise!  Gathered  in  foothills surrounding  the  keep  are  a  sizeable number  of  curious  villagers  carrying torches  and  lanterns.  As  the  party  de¬ scends  from  the  keep,  the  villagers mutter  excitedly  to  one  another. Looking  over  their  shoulders,  the  PCs see  that  the  keep  is  glowing  in  a  dim violet  light.
A  short  plump  man  with  a  bald head  and  bushy  white  eyebrows rushes  from  the  crowd  to  greet  the party.  The  PCs  instantly  recognize him  as  Balko  Verdemeer.  Balko  excit¬ edly  congratulates  the  PCs  on  their success.  He  says  that  he  and  his  aides came  to  the  keep  a  few  hours  ago when  they  saw  the  violet  aura.  "We took  it  as  a  sign  of  your  success.  Ex¬ actly  how  did  you  cause  it  to  shine like  that?"
Before  the  PCs  can  give  more  than  a brief  answer,  one  of  Balko's  aides shouts,  "Take  cover!  The  keep  is breaking  up!  "  The  villagers,  Balko, and  his  aides  scramble  for  safety.  The PCs  can  find  cover  under  a  tree  or rock  alcove;  there  are  plenty  in  the immediate  area.
One  round  after  the  aide's  warning, the  top  of  the  keep  explodes  in  a shower  of  rocks  as  the  rest  crumbles into  a  mountain  of  dust.  Any  PC  who didn't  take  cover  has  a  50%  chance  of suffering  ld2  damage  from  the  rain of  stones  and  debris.  If  the  PCs  search the  area  later,  they  find  numerous lichling  corpses  amid  the  wreckage  of the  tower.
AfTeRmafb
In  the  days  following  the  lichling shower,  Balko  takes  the  PCs  to  Cor- myr,  where  the  king  arranges  a  feast
in  their  honor.  Cormyran  officials  lis¬ ten  with  interest  to  the  party's  story. All  payments  promised  in  the  Pro¬ logue  are  made,  and  the  PCs  are hailed  as  heroes.
Cormyran  court  wizards  suggest that  Icelia  intended  the  lichling shower  as  a  final,  desperate  attack. But  not  only  did  the  lichling  shower cause  insignificant  damage,  local scholars  theorize  that  the  decompos¬ ing  lichlings  may  act  as  a  fertilizer  to enrich  the  barren  soil  of  the  Veilstone Peaks.
This  theory  proves  correct.  In years  to  come,  the  farmlands  in  this region  become  some  of  the  most  fer¬ tile  in  all  the  Realms,  and  the  Veil¬ stone  Peak  villages  begin  a  new  era  of prosperity.
APPENDIX:  NEW MAGICAL  ITEM
Rod  of  Immobile IhJsecTs
This  is  a  2'-long  rod  made  of  gold with  a  white  pearl  on  the  end.
The  rod  operates  by  the  mental command  of  the  user,  discharging  a cloud  of  sparkling  light  that  fills  up  to a  lOO'-diameter  sphere.  The  center  of the  sphere  may  be  up  to  200'  away from  the  user.  All  insect  life  within the  area  of  effect  freezes  in  place  for 3d6  rounds,  unable  to  attack  or  move (no  saving  throw).  Flying  insects  are frozen  in  place  in  mid-air.
The  rod  is  effective  against  all  types of  insect  life,  including  giant  insects, magically  conjured  insects,  thri- kreen,  and  ankhegs.  The  lichlings  and lichling  servitors  found  in  this  adven¬ ture  are  also  affected  by  the  rod.
XP  Value:  2,500.
62
Lichling
CLIMATE/TERRAIN:
FREQUENCY:
ORGANIZATION:
Young
Any  land
Very  rare
Solitary  or  horde
Mature
Any  land
Very  rare
Solitary
ACTIVE  TIME:
Any
Any
DIET:
See  below
See  below
INTELLIGENCE:
Animal  (1)
Semi-(2)
TREASURE:
Nil
Nil
ALIGNMENT:
Chaotic  evil
Chaotic  evil
NO.  APPEARING:
1  or  10-100
1
ARMOR  CLASS:
1
2
MOVEMENT:
3,  FI  24  (B)
9,  FI  18  (C)
HIT  DICE:
2  +  2
20
THACO:
19
5
NO.  OF  ATTACKS:
1
3
DAMAGE/ATTACK:
ld6  (bite)
2dl0/2dl0/4d6
SPECIAL  ATTACKS:
Nil
Bone  spew
SPECIAL  DEFENSES:
See  below
See  below
MAGIC  RESISTANCE:
See  below
See  below
SIZE:
T  (6"  long)
G  (801  long)
MORALE:
Fearless  (19)
Fearless  (20)
XP  VALUE:
270
12,000
The  lichling  is  a  vicious,  insect-like  terror  spawned  from  the body  of  a  demilich.
The  lichling  resembles  a  6" -long  black  cockroach  with  spindly human  arms  and  legs,  a  pair  of  ragged  gauzy  wings,  and  a  grin¬ ning  human  skull  for  a  head.  Razor-sharp  hooked  fangs  line  its mouth.  The  chitinous  body  is  greasy  to  the  touch  and  smells faintly  of  rotten  meat.  Lichlings  make  no  sounds  except  in  an  at¬ tack,  when  they  clack  their  teeth  and  hiss  like  serpents.
Combat:  A  lichling  attacks  any  living  creature,  soaring  in  a straight  line  toward  the  most  vulnerable  area  of  the  victim's body,  such  as  the  neck  or  other  area  of  exposed  flesh.  A  hit means  that  the  lichling  has  sunk  its  powerful  fangs  into  the  vic¬ tim,  inflicting  ld6  damage.  So  powerful  are  the  lichling's  jaws that  it  can  chew  through  a  tree  trunk.
Once  it  hits,  the  lichling  inflicts  an  automatic  ld6  damage  each round  thereafter  until  it  lets  go  or  is  killed.  If  a  lichling  is  killed,  it remains  attached  to  its  victim;  the  victim  suffers  1  point  of  dam¬ age  per  round,  thanks  to  the  deep  wounds  inflicted  by  the  crea¬ ture  and  an  anti-coagulant  produced  by  the  fangs.
Removing  the  corpse  is  a  delicate  procedure.  A  lichling  corpse does  not  respond  to  fire  or  prodding.  If  the  corpse  is  forcefully removed  (which  can  be  accomplished  easily),  the  hooked  fangs rip  the  victim's  neck,  inflicting  2  hit  points  of  damage.  If  the  lichl¬ ing  corpse  is  carefully  detached  (requiring  a  Dexterity  check  for the  character  removing  the  corpse),  the  corpse  is  removed  with¬ out  inflicting  any  additional  damage  to  the  victim;  if  the  check fails,  the  victim  suffers  an  additional  1  hit  point  of  damage.
Lichlings  can  only  be  struck  by  +  1  or  better  magical  weapons. They  are  immune  to  charm,  sleep,  enfeeblement,  polymorph, cold,  electricity,  fear,  insanity,  and  death  spells.
Habitat/Soriety:  Using  arcane  and  complex  magical  proce¬ dures,  certain  demiliches  are  able  to  transform  their  original bodies  into  immense  incubating  husks.  Infant  lichlings  are spawned  from  the  brain  cells  of  the  husks,  nurtured  by  sub¬ stances  generated  within  the  husk.  Following  a  period  of  ld4 decades  of  dormancy,  the  lichlings  become  fully  active.
Active  lichlings  have  no  permanent  lair.  They  sometimes  travel in  loosely  organized  hordes  that  number  as  many  as  100  mem¬ bers.
Ecology:  Active  lichlings  don't  consume  organic  food.  Instead, they  are  nourished  by  the  fear  of  their  victims,  along  with  the emotional  trauma  generated  by  victims  suffering  physical  dam¬ age.  In  ways  not  fully  understood,  lichlings  are  able  to  assimilate fear  and  emotional  trauma  and  transform  it  into  nourishing  en¬ ergy.
Though  they  are  perfectly  capable  of  inflicting  damage  and causing  victims  to  feel  fear,  lichlings  can  also  assimilate  fear  and trauma  caused  by  other  sources.  For  instance,  lichlings  some¬ times  linger  near  battlefields  to  assimilate  the  fear  and  emotional trauma  that  combatants  inflict  on  each  other.
Lichlings  show  unwavering  loyalty  to  the  demilich  who spawned  them.  If  that  demilich  is  destroyed,  the  lichlings  may  be pressed  into  service  by  an  evil  wizard  or  other  powerful  entity.
Mature  Lichling
A  lichling  matures  in  100-1,000  years.  The  mature  lichling  resem¬ bles  an  80'-long  version  of  a  young  lichling,  with  long  claws  on  its hands  used  to  supplement  its  biting  attacks.  The  mature  lichling can  also  spew  a  stream  of  sharp  bone  fragments  at  any  single target  up  to  100'  away  (make  normal  attack  roll)  to  inflict  6d6 damage;  it  can  make  this  attack  once  every  other  round.  Mature lichlings  share  the  same  diet  and  special  defenses  as  young  lichl¬ ings.
Down  and  Dirty  inWaterdeep!
■*  .  nil'  I1 1  r—wl  tv
rM.  inc  . . . .
™, 11  ***i  ™.»t  if
lour  Greatest  Challenge  Ever:  Defy the  Denizens  of  Undermountain
leave  ii.  so  the  people  cf  Ihe SvHrmd  Coast  id  tuUd  a  dty  alop  an evil,  iH  omrnKl  Pjin.’ r;  yoo  iJjt?  .  explore  ihr  ruin;  ihat  lie beneath  Wai  erdttp  The  eDpjrm(tui  mure  of i.:nptl:  and  dungeons  are  tilled  wiih  trenojrr, bu’.  thur  awesome  lujil  ::r,  await  .ill  fortwie eps.  Ealer  iSe  chambers  if  i/nu  dire- ami  disrnver  why they're  wild  the  tangcsl  pave  in  ihe  Fetg&iLen  Realms. Ke'iuirr  Blfprttdoakwaiilsymu  Arrival  .  .
Thu  Ruins  of  t  n-  'i  —.iiL’nin  'i  b-^sjcd  scl  conlaira  new  monilerj, apdls  and  msjie  .:i*snv  4  inndihle  n*]»s;  2  hand¬ books;  and  ovtr2()M  dnf$e«i  chambers  id  explore.
RjTid  .1  at  hobb>  and  bihlk  SlCires  everywhere.
MONSTER  SUMMARY  TABLE
This  table  presents  vital  statistics  for  some  of  the  monsters  featured  in  this  adventure.
Refer  to  the  various  AD&D®  MONSTROUS  COMPENDIUM  volumes  or  this  module  for  more  detailed  information.
Name
AC
HD/hp
THACO
#AT
Dmg
MV
Remarks
Banshee,  see  Groaning  spirit Black  puddings,  modified  (2)
-  1
10/68
11
1
3d8
12,F112
dissolves  metal,  immunities
Brown  mold,  see  Mold Eyestalks  (2)
1
9/70
11
1
6d4  or  2dl0
12
immunities
Fire  elemental
2
16/20
5
1
3d8
12
fire,  +2  weapon  to  hit,  immunities
Flying  glass  skeletons, see  Skeletons
Ghost  bats  (3)
1
10/65
11
1
3d8
F124
screech,  +1  weapons  to  hit,  undead immunities
Giant  slug,  see  Slug
Golem,  glass  (4)
3
14/85
7
2
2d8/2d8
6
+1  weapons  to  hit,  spell  immunities,
or  1
explodes
Gray  ochre  ooze
8
7/50
15
1
ldlO+2
4
corrodes  metal,  ooze  immunities
Gray  squirrels,  modified
6
7+2/51
13
3
2d4/2d8/2d6
15
+1  THACO
Groaning  spirit
0
7/50
13
1
ld8
15
wail,  fear,  immunities
Heart  spiders  (3)
7
2/14
19
1
ld4
6,18  on  web
3d8  poison
Ivory  hydra  hands  (2)
1
12/8
9
12
ldlO  per  head
9
per  head
or  1  4dl0  smash
Juju  zombie
6
3+12/32
15
1
3d4
9,Crwl3
necklace  of  missiles,  +1  weapon  to  hit, immunities
Killer  mimic
7
10/74
11
1
3d4
3
glue,  acid  immunity
Leech,  giant
9
4/30
17
1
ld4
3,Sw3
drains  4hp/ round
Lichling  corpse,  animated
3
20/150
5
3
2dl0/2dl0/4d6
See  Chap.  4
Lichling
1
2+2/15
19
1
ld6
3,F124
See  p.  64
Lichling  servitor
2
6/45
15
2
2d6/2d6
12
+1  weapons  to  hit,  undead  immunities
Living  web
9
6/45
15
1
2d4
6
absorbs  electricity,  divides  at  edged  blows, immunities
Lurker  above
6
10/70
10
1
ld6
F19(B)
constriction,  surprise  penalty
Marine  scrags,  modified  (8)
2
6+12/60  13
3
ld4/ld4/ld8+8
3,Swl2
3hp  regen,  undead  immunities,  not  turned
Megalocentipede,  young  (6)
7
2hP
20
1
Nil
15
ld6  poison
Megalocentipede,  adult
5
3/21
17
1
ld3
18
poison
Mold,  brown
9
N/A
17
N/A
special
6
absorbs  heat,  spell  immunities
Muck  men  (8)
8
5/39
15
1
special
3
+1  weapons  to  hit,  muck-throwing, suffocation
Piercers  (8)
3
4/30
17
1
4d6
1
one  attack,  acid,  surprise
Purple  worm
6
15/110
5
1/1
2dl2/2d4
9
poison,  swallow  whole
Shadows  (4)
7
3+3/20
17
1
ld4+l
12
Strength  drain,  undead  inununities,  90% undetectable
Skeletons,  flying  glass  (6)
3
7/55
13
1
ldlO
12,F115
explode,  undead  immunities
Slug,  giant
8
12/93
9
1
ldl2
6
4d8  acid  spit,  no  harm  from  blunt weapons
Spectres  (2)
2
7+3/55  13
1
ld8
15,F130
energy  drain,  +1  weapons  to  hit,  undead
immunities
Spiders,  see  heart  spiders Strangleweed
6
4/30
17
1
special
Nil
crushes
Tube  worm
4
9+3/70
11
1
2d4
6
lunging
Umber  hulks  (4)
2
8+8/60
11
3
3d4/3d4/ldl0
6,Burrow  ld6
confusion,  surprise  bonus
Wraiths  (2)
4
5+3/41
15
1
ld6
12,F124
energy  drain,  undead  inununities
Zombie  dragon  turtle
0
14/100
7
3
2d6/2d6/4d8
3,Sw9
breath,  undead  immunities,  not  turned
ViLUgeRs
Typical  villager  (0-level  fighter):  AC  10;  MV  12;  hp  4;  THACO  20;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld4  (dagger);  AL  LN.
Use  "Typical"  statistics  for  laborers  and  other  ordinary  citizens.
Exceptional  villager  (lst-level  fighter):  AC  8  (leather  armor);  MV  12;  hp  9;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld6  (short  sword);  AL  LN. Use  "Exceptional"  statistics  for  merchants,  middle  class  citizens,  and  low-level  officials.
Elite  villager  (4th-level  fighter):  AC  5  (chain  mail);  MV  12;  hp  30;  THACO  17;  Dmg  ld8  (long  sword);  AL  LN.
The  "Elite"  statistics  are  for  higher-level  officials,  bodyguards,  and  other  noteworthy  folk.
SENSORY  PHENOMENA  TABLE
See  Chapter  3  for  instructions.  Once  you  run  a  given  phenomenon,  mark  the  box  beside  it.  When  you  roll  an  entry  that  has  already  been run,  use  the  next  unmarked  entry  down.  Roll  ld20  or  choose:
1.  BENEVOLENT  SPIRIT
□  Stage  A:  A  shimmering  image  of  a  faceless  human  appears before  the  victim.  The  image  radiates  a  golden  glow.  The  image fades  a  moment  after  it  appears.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  the  image  beckons  the  victim  to follow  it.  The  image  vanishes  in  ld4  rounds.  The  spirit  leads  the victim  in  an  advantageous  direction  of  your  choice.
2.  MALEVOLENT  SPIRIT
□  Stage  A:  A  shimmering  image  of  a  faceless  human  appears before  the  victim.  The  image  radiates  a  violet  glow.  The  image fades  a  moment  after  it  appears.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  the  image  beckons  the  victim  to follow  it.  The  image  vanishes  in  ld4  rounds.  The  spirit  leads  the victim  into  a  trap  of  your  choice.
5.  WOLOVER’S  SPIRIT
Note:  This  does  not  occur  after  the  PCs  visit  area  11  of  Chapter  4.
□  Stage  A:  A  hazy  image  of  a  bald  man  appears  before  the  vic¬ tim.  The  man  wears  a  long  robe  covered  with  small  circles.  The image  opens  its  mouth  to  speak,  but  suddenly  vanishes.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  that  the  victim  telepathically hears  the  image's  voice  saying,  "Come  to  the  heart  .  .  ."
4.  ICEUA’S  HEAD
□  Stage  A:  An  image  of  a  floating  head  appears  directly  in front  of  the  victim,  blocking  progress.  The  head  resembles  a  hu¬ man  skull  covered  with  rotting  flesh.  Shanks  of  long  matted  hair extend  from  the  scalp.  The  image  cackles  insanely  at  the  victim; only  the  PC  hears  the  cackles.  If  the  PC  touches  the  image,  it  van¬ ishes.  Otherwise,  it  disappears  in  2d4  rounds.
□  Stage  B:  Same  as  Stage  A,  except  that  a  victim  who  touches the  image  suffers  ldlO  cold  damage  and  must  save  vs.  paralyza- tion  or  be  utterly  unable  to  move  for  2d4  rounds.  If  the  victim doesn't  touch  the  image,  it  disappears  in  2d4  rounds.
5.  CONSTRICTION
□  Stage  A:  The  victim  feels  tightly  squeezed,  as  if  in  the  coils  of a  gigantic  constrictor.  The  sensation  persists  for  ld4  rounds, during  which  time  the  PC  cannot  move.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  that  the  sensation  persists  for 2d4  rounds  and  the  victim  suffers  2d4  damage  per  round.  If  a companion  physically  moves  the  victim  5'  away  from  where  the phenomenon  began,  the  constriction  immediately  ends.
6.  SCREAM
□  Stage  A:  The  victim  hears  the  bone-chilling  scream  of  a  man or  woman,  as  if  the  person  were  dying  in  agony.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  that  the  victim  must  save  vs. spells  or  experience  the  effects  of  a  fear  spell  (no  saving  throw), fleeing  in  a  random  direction  at  top  speed  for  10  rounds.
7.  TINGLE  AND  FAINT
□  Stage  A:  The  victim's  skin  tingles,  as  if  pricked  by  thousands of  tiny  needles.  A  moment  later,  the  victim  collapses  unconscious (no  saving  throw),  but  recovers  if  a  companion  rouses  the  PC.
□  Stage  B:  The  victim  feels  the  tingling  and  faints  as  in  Stage A.  However,  the  slightest  touch  from  a  companion  revives  the victim.  For  the  next  hour,  the  victim  can  move  and  act  normally— while  physical  touching  any  companion.  However,  when  not  in contact  with  someone,  the  victim  instantly  falls  unconscious.
8.  FLASHES  AND  SHRIEKS
□  Stage  A:  The  PC  sees  tiny  bursts  of  light  for  the  next  2d4 rounds,  making  all  attacks  at  a  -1  penalty  during  that  time.
□  Stage  B:  The  light  flashes  are  accompanied  by  distant, echoed  shrieks  of  agony,  persisting  for  2d4  rounds.  Attacks  take a  -2  penalty  during  this  time.
9.  MENACING  HAND
□  Stage  A:  The  victim  sees  a  5'  long  bony  hand,  its  fingers crackling  with  energy,  hovering  in  the  air.  The  hand  moves  to¬
ward  the  victim  with  an  MV  of  3,  passing  effortlessly  through walls  and  floors.  The  hand  continues  to  follow  until  it  touches the  victim,  and  then  it  disappears;  the  hand  causes  no  harm.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  that  if  the  victim  eludes  the  hand for  10  rounds,  it  disappears.  Otherwise,  if  the  hand  touches  the victim,  the  victim  suffers  3dl0  chilling  (cold-based)  damage.
10.  EERIE  RAIN
□  Stage  A:  The  victim  feels  warm  drops  of  invisible,  odorless liquid  rain  steadily  from  an  unseen  source;  no  one  but  the  victim is  aware  of  the  rain.  The  rain  follows  wherever  the  victim  goes, and  persists  for  2d4  rounds.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  that  after  the  rain  stops,  the  vic¬ tim  exudes  a  carrion  stench  in  a  101  radius.  All  PCs  attack  at  a  -2 penalty  within  101  of  the  victim;  the  victim  does  not  suffer  these penalties.  If  the  victim  is  immersed  in  any  type  of  liquid,  the stench  is  washed  off.
11.  PHONY  KEY
□  Stage  A:  The  victim  sees  a  gold  key  on  the  floor.  No  one  else can  see  it.  When  the  victim  touches  the  key,  it  disappears.
□  Stage  B:  The  victim  sees  a  gold  key  on  the  floor.  The  key  has the  weight  and  appearance  of  a  normal  key,  though  none  of  the other  PCs  can  see  or  feel  it.  While  carrying  the  key,  the  victim feels  a  painful  skeletal  throbbing,  causing  AC  to  drop  by  2,  halv¬ ing  movement  rates,  and  penalizing  all  attacks  by  -2.  If  the  vic¬ tim  discards  the  key,  the  ill  effects  end.
1J2.  ULAC  SMELL
□  Stage  A:  The  victim  smells  a  strong  odor  of  lilacs  for  one round.  There  is  no  apparent  source  of  the  smell.
□  Stage  B:  Same  as  Stage  A,  except  that  a  PC  who  does  not immediately  holds  his  or  her  breath  for  one  round  suffers  3d6 points  of  poison  damage.
15.  FOUL  TASTE
□  Stage  A:  The  victim  experiences  the  revolting  taste  of  honey mixed  with  rotting  fish  for  one  round.  There  are  no  ill  effects.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  that  the  victim  must  make  a  Con¬ stitution  check  or  become  nauseated.  For  the  next  hour,  the  vic¬ tim  makes  all  ability  checks  with  a  +1  penalty  and  attacks  with  a -1  penalty.
14.  PUNGENT  ODOR
□  Stage  A:  The  victim  smells  an  odor  of  sour  milk  for  one round.  There  is  no  apparent  source  of  the  odor.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  that  a  PC  who  does  not  immedi¬ ately  hold  his  or  her  breath  for  one  round  doubles  over  with  se¬ vere  stomach  cramps.  The  intense  pain  prevents  the  victim  from speaking,  moving,  or  acting  for  the  next  2d4  rounds.
15.  HAUNTED  HANDS
□  Stage  A:  Both  of  the  victim's  hands  vanish  for  one  round, then  abruptly  reappear.  Anything  the  victim  was  carrying  is dropped.  The  victim  suffers  no  damage.
□  Stage  B:  The  victim's  hands  shake  uncontrollably  for  the next  hour,  changing  (to  the  PC  only)  into  violet  mist.  During  the hour,  the  victim  cannot  hold  a  weapon  or  any  other  item.  Spell- casters  cannot  cast  spells  with  somatic  components.
16.  TICKUNG  INSECTS
□  Stage  A:  The  victim  feels  a  tickling  all  over,  as  of  tiny  crawl¬ ing  creatures.  There  is  no  apparent  source  of  the  sensation, which  lasts  an  hour.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  that  the  victim  (and  only  the  vic¬ tim)  sees  the  source  of  the  tickling:  dozens  of  ghostly  white  but¬ terflies  with  human  heads,  their  faces  contorted  in  pain.  The butterflies  cannot  be  brushed  away  (all  objects  harmlessly  pass through  them),  nor  can  they  be  magically  dispersed.  An  hour  af¬ ter  their  arrival,  the  butterflies  flap  away  of  their  own  accord, disappearing  into  mid-air.
SENSORY  PHENOMENA  TABLE
17.  HAUNTED  LEGS
□  Stage  A:  The  victim's  feet  stick  tight  to  the  ground for  2d4  rounds.
□  Stage  B:  The  victim  (and  only  the  victim)  believes  his or  her  legs  have  transformed  into  violet  mist.  The  victim immediately  collapses.  The  legs  are  useless  for  the  next hour;  to  move,  the  victim  must  crawl,  fly,  or  be  carried.
18.  HAUNTED  WEAPON
□  Stage  A:  One  of  the  weapons  the  victim  currently holds  (roll  randomly)  abruptly  disappears.  One  hour  lat¬ er,  the  weapon  reappears,  undamaged,  in  the  exact  loca¬ tion  where  it  originally  vanished.  (A  victim  who  moves after  the  weapon  vanished  must  return  to  the  original location  in  order  to  retrieve  the  weapon.)
□  Stage  B:  One  of  the  victim's  weapons  (roll  randomly) abruptly  lurches  free  from  the  victim's  hand  and,  hover¬ ing  in  mid-air,  attacks  the  victim,  hitting  automatically  for maximum  damage.  It  then  drops  to  the  ground.
19.  DEADLY  PREMONITION
□  Stage  A:  The  victim  faints  for  ld4  rounds  (no  saving throw)  and  cannot  be  revived  during  this  time.  While  un¬
conscious,  the  character  experiences  a  vivid  dream  of  his or  her  own  violent  death  —  crushed  by  a  collapsing  wall, eaten  alive,  or  any  deadly  fate  of  your  choice.  Upon awakening,  the  PC  immediately  experiences  the  effects of  a  fear  spell  (no  saving  throw),  and  flees  in  a  random direction  for  10  rounds.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  the  victim  has  the  violent dream  about  another  PC  (choose  randomly).  The  dream may  seem  to  be  a  premonition  of  the  immediate  future, such  as  the  next  room  of  the  labyrinth.  When  the  victim awakens,  there  are  no  ill  effects  unless  the  victim  relates the  dream  to  the  subject  of  the  dream.  If  so,  the  subject experiences  fear  as  described  in  Stage  A  (subject  gains  a saving  throw  vs.  spell).
2.0.  SEALED  UPS
□  Stage  A:  The  victim  feels  sharp  pains  in  the  lips,  as  if something  were  stitching  the  lips  together.  The  victim cannot  speak  for  the  next  2d4  rounds.  Spellcasters  can¬ not  cast  spells  with  verbal  components  during  this  time.
□  Stage  B:  As  Stage  A,  except  the  victim's  lips  are sealed  for  a  full  hour.
PHYSICAL  ENCOUNTERS  TABLE
□  See  Chapter  3  for  instructions.  Roll  ldl2  or  choose:
1.  Dark  fog:  A  magical  gray  fog  rises  around  the  party,  per¬ sisting  within  a  50-200  (Id4x50)  foot  radius  of  the  party's current  position  for  the  next  ld4  hours,  hr  the  fog,  missile combat  has  a  - 1  modifier  at  point  blank  range,  a  -2  modi¬ fier  at  short  range,  a  -5  modifier  at  medium  range,  and  is impossible  at  long  range.  Movement  rates  are  reduced  by Vi.  Vision,  including  infravision,  is  restricted  to  10  yards.
2.  Crawling  green  fungus:  The  party  discovers  a  small patch  of  green  fungus  crawling  along  the  floor  at  a  move¬ ment  rate  of  3.  The  fungus  is  harmless  and  edible  (it  tastes like  mushrooms).  Assume  the  fungus  is  big  enough  to  supply a  meal's  worth  of  nourishment  for  each  PC  in  the  party.
3.  Crawling  blue  fungus:  This  is  identical  to  the  "Crawl¬ ing  green  fungi"  encounter  above,  except  the  fungus  is  blue. Though  tasty,  eating  the  blue  fungus  requires  a  Constitution check;  failure  means  the  PC  is  nauseated  and  suffers  a  -1 attack  penalty  for  the  next  24  hours.
4.  Disease  mist:  A  cloud  of  pink  mist  blocks  the  party's progress.  Undisturbed,  the  mist  dissipates  in  ld4  hours. Otherwise,  any  PC  who  comes  within  3'  of  the  mist  must save  vs.  poison  or  feel  feverish  for  the  next  24  hours,  mak¬ ing  ability  checks  at  a  +2  penalty  and  attacking  at  a  -2  pen¬ alty  during  that  time.
5.  Collapsing  ceiling:  A  section  of  the  passage  extending 3dl0  ahead  of  the  party  has  a  weak  ceiling,  evidenced  by the  shower  of  chunks  continually  falling  from  it.  The  ceiling chunks  range  in  size  from  a  few  inches  in  diameter  to  about 3'.  Each  PC  entering  this  area  has  a  25%  change  per  5'  of ceiling  to  be  hit  by  a  chunk  large  enough  to  do  2d4  points  of damage.  A  PC  can  avoid  damage  with  a  Dexterity  check.
6.  Chilling  wind:  A  magical  wind  whips  the  party,  chilling them  to  the  bones.  Each  PC  who  fails  to  make  a  Constitution check  with  a  +2  penalty  suffers  2d4  points  of  damage.
7.  Dripping  ceiling:  A  thick  yellow  liquid  reeking  of  rot¬ ten  meat  drips  from  the  ceiling  for  the  next  30'.  Each  PC entering  this  area  has  a  25%  chance  per  10'  of  having  a  drop strike  him  for  3d6  points  of  damage  (save  vs.  poison  for  ld6 points  of  damage).  A  PC  who  holds  a  shield  or  similar  protec¬ tion  overhead  avoids  this  damage.  The  pools  of  liquid  on  the
floor  are  easy  to  avoid,  but  any  PC  foolish  enough  to  touch one  must  save  vs.  poison  and  suffer  damage  accordingly.
8.  Ominous  rumbling:  Mild  tremors  shake  the  walls  and floors  for  ld4  rounds.  The  tremors  cause  no  significant damage,  and  the  party's  ability  to  move  and  take  action  is unaffected.
9.  Undead  hellhounds  (2d4):  Int  low;  AL  LE;  AC  4;  MV 12;  HD  8;  hp  55  each;  THAC0  13;  #AT  1;  Drng  ldlO  (bite);  SA breath  fire  at  victim  up  to  10  yards  away  for  2dl0  dmg  (save vs.  spells  for  half  damage;  can  breathe  flames  while  biting;  a natural  roll  of  20  on  an  attack  roll  means  the  hound  has  both bitten  and  breathed  fire  on  a  victim);  SD  can  see  hidden  or invisible  creatures  50%  of  the  time;  opponents  have  a  -5 penalty  on  surprise  rolls;  immune  to  fire,  sleep,  charm, hold,  death  magic,  poisons,  and  cold-based  spells;  SZ  M;  ML 13;  XP  1,400.
These  resemble  slightly  larger  versions  of  normal  hell¬ hounds,  with  rotting  flesh  stretched  over  black  bones  and with  stronger  fire  breath.  They  cannot  be  turned.
10.  Spectres  (ld4):  Int  high;  AL  LE;  AC  2;  MV  15,  FI  30  (B); HD  7+3;  hp  56  each;  THAC0  13;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld8;  SA  suc¬ cessful  attacks  drain  two  levels  from  victim;  SD  +1  or  bet¬ ter  weapon  to  hit;  immune  to  sleep,  charm,  hold,  and cold-based  attacks;  immune  to  poison  and  paralyzation  at¬ tacks;  SZ  M;  ML  15;  XP  3,000.
11.  Shadows  (3d4):  Int  low;  AL  CE;  AC  7;  MV  12;  HD  3+3; hp  25  each;  THAC0  17;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld4+l;  SA  successful attacks  drain  one  point  of  Strength  from  victim,  lost Strength  returns  in  2d4  turns  (victims  reduced  to  0  Strength become  shadows);  SD  90%  undetectable  in  all  but  brightest of  surroundings;  immune  to  sleep,  charm,  hold,  and  cold- based  attacks;  SZ  M;  ML  special;  XP  650.
12.  Wraiths  (2d4):  Int  very;  AL  LE;  AC  4;  MV  12,  FI  24  (B); HD  5+3;  hp  40  each;  THAC0  15;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld6;  SA  suc¬ cessful  attacks  drain  a  level  of  experience  from  victim,  in¬ cluding  hit  points  and  all  abilities  associated  with  that  level (spells,  etc.);  lost  experience  must  be  earned  again  or  magi¬ cally  restored;  SD  immune  to  all  weapons  except  silver  (half damage)  or  +1  or  better  (full  damage);  immune  to  sleep, charm,  hold,  death,  and  cold-based  spells;  SZ  M;  ML  15;  XP 3,000.
VEILSrONE  PEAKS
Wtnowrt's Keep  A
1 1  LHac  PoNft
gaRNCMR  g
14  InscnjIjco  cliff
J4C&fOR&
i  0  ReDrcmM
a  ANStEH
6  I  ECiCtylE
4  MflcFjCIl
t0
Hillt
MCUNl^iNG
woobe
Village
tnai]
Wftlcn
i  CennintoN
Fields
Sealer  i '  =  4  Miles
SOIONQHOLD
LEVEL  2  (djapteii  ?)
QolfefiN  boon
Mlct  boost
LictjliNS
SCNSOU?  lyl?ci Physical  Ewe I  set  labls^O
ripes
Slope  ^aiftTioH
TTRciptHKHi
_ _ !
1 1
7C
-t
£
3
<3
I
s  &  |
ft
3
&
7¥
*
S
£^J
<Li>
|-V|  1
*=D
>QK
ior«r
■'IJGMOMCNO.
ENeoij,Nren&
&  ON  MOQUlE  SCntCNl
*OWPOFNlS  &OWN]
It
©
DuaiN
ITTTTF
Stains
CuntaiN
0
Ttutifile
MaqicaJ  boon
Skull
Qlassi  cube PEI
Mosaic  cuaenarw
dr^tKilf  M '.  ' I  I  N i  'H
CJrtud  f  tOOit
Llguio
Miil  pool dFass  qolcM Qiass  plate Stalactite
Siall'LLjMilF
c  nacks*
key  pit
Cliff  opcNiHG lioWBiNq  trail
saNO  ret
(jCfSClt
Gn,ave
Sea  it
■;T
...
7K
>
4
7C* —
7<5
19
“jT
'  f
\\
ft
f
!
■4
1
r
i
t
P  .
f
r'l
\
. a
1
f
i
$
t
r
t
A
Jf
+
t-- «
]  sjT  1
Jj
!  \
X
.  ■■
_
---
■jj
v
f  i*  *
-  f
KX
. . .
■
/
>-<0l /
i  _r^
►  ,r—
rn
Il  1  '
tn
1  7M
1  '!  J
—
□
—
Sen v  Eton  local  ious
ea
J®
n
Q  A
a  o
jo
r
_
U
ik
i
e
In
J  f !
\
?c
If
M
k“
T-
L
t
n_
1
—
jb
1C
WOLOVERS  KEEP  (CtjapteR  I )
Closed  door
^p1  m  opcn  door
©
a  BFOkflH  window  ;(t){
6^
Funwace
IRON  ROD
Statue
Desk
*¥>>  Deunis
Flannel
_  ■  k"j- :  ■
sialitwa?
tnapdoorc  IN  ffOOR TnapDoon  iN  ceiliNO
Tadic
Ca&iNEl
IKut
CnackcD  ]cns
Wasps
,j:  v  Mrst  pool
Scare:  i  sguaRG  =  [Ofcct
•!
'CRONQHOLD
EL  ?  (CtjapteR  4)
Ihon  5tnaNti&
Lilac  bud
Clean,  watett  dud
LlclillNQ  fluio  dud
Capillary  nuN&Jt
otackco  bud
&sL
0
Blockade
SlFNffrl  bud
Valve
X
EieMeniars  valve LldiliNq  fluid  splqot
LEVEL  3
LEVEL  4
I  Mist  pool
d
HyestalK
RnaaN  bubhlf  wan  I
FlUlb
Ott qa.NS
SeHSOK?  Pl^NOMCNa Pf?ysica3  ENCouNte^s tsee  tables  on  Module  scrceeNt
,
f  EM  J
Tnrrrr
c
\  \
y  /
f  s
y
/
/
5
533
7
i1  r
/  ..'  X.  -
k-  ~  f
1  [-V-  *
’  -s>’
1  }lTr3[
]3
•  1  ■  •  ■
-i  tv
r"  '  1  •  /\  £
r1
•,
s.  ■y
£i5£[  -Jj(
ia
.  JD
3HOLD
(CfiaptCK  2)
9341  XXX07C1
rn
I
1
i
J
/
1
4
;
\
4a
ftp
Jf
f
m
8-W-^-B
■
‘.■w
j-JLJU
LaJOL
tiuJ
—
Lj-j-ju
/
wJ
1
4t3
4f
[
lifS
.’ xi
4C
\
— J
V
1  J
Ni'gtetraarce  Keep
\>ij  F4i  t:k  SaX3D
Whnt  yonH  play  eras  soy  at  tbrj  sfont  of  NifjhTmtmtf  Km?pz "Ob,  look,  tin  unAfiBflRoarj^l  Jfibt/rrrntb  fiJleft  toitb  Crckiscirk. No  one  tuba's  (Jr™  in  eneH  cn™  oat  aline.  Hash,  eoffw nwec  seen  rhnr  befone,  ob  no."  ;  Stifled  ytizan.)
What  T.bep  say  eatily  on  in  NtyjhtrrjuKt*  Ktftfp.
"Hulb  it!  What's  yoirjy  cm?  t>br  f/tu  cccbl  We'we  yettinjj  out] This  r uay,  f.bis  Luur/!  Wtat's  that?  Oh,  no"'
Hatpajay  tb(ifjaj]b  Nifjhtmaae  Ka&jr.
"Okap.  !p  tue  stick  closer  ooO  look  sbtrMp  uhtl  Oou't  act  sea f>i'r>,  [  think  too  rwifjbt  i.iof.  oat  ogr  this  alfoe."
Ac  the  Uimn*  op  Nitfhrmaaa  Kwf i "Ob  no.  Ob  uo/'
A  dOOciIO-  be corjqciHHori  is;  uczrtiirjtf boFides  of  urjdiruA  insects beneath  WofooeH  s  Kerjj  in  the  Veflifturx*  Pcrtiku.  This  trail  being ajfi-H  once  a  lich,  a  [lomeafril  rjnAeaA  ruixa rjfl  .  . .  bat  that  cuas not.  enough.  Mono  sometbiny  str-tarafpe  exists  bimeatb  the Keep,  something  rsepefEent-  and  strion^i  beyond  mguscirie.
Niptetmafte  Keep.  poe  the  AD&l?  jjubje  adbeniartert  coitb coascifle,  a  staobfi  stoirrocb,  anti  sapenlop.  pHepotooH.,  Thfe a&yentaflie  is  set  near?  bo^ttatoestortb  Cosm^fl  io  the
Fnra^ptten  Realms,  bat  ir  fits  easilry  into  any  oopoinp  bifjb- Iera4  campaign.
TSR,  Inc PO0  756
Lake  Geneoa,  Wl  53147 LJ.S.A.
TSR  Ltd.
ISO  tlbtiiscb  L  rj A,  f  I'w'wwf/  Hinton Cambni&gi?  C8l  .-SLLI United  Kingdom
15KN  1  5<5Q7<5  147-4
+9.P5  U.S.  CSS.50U.K.
ADVANCED  DUNOEONS  &  DPAOCNS.  M&D  in  li  FORGOTTEN  REALMS  art  registered  iradsnarkn  swi«1  by  VSH  Irr Thn  TSR  -.cp  Is  a  Insdorriartf  rv*nnr1  by  i‘$A,  nr  -iggi  ryp.  nc  All  Rijjhla  Reserved.  Printed  in  L.S  A.
