ENTERING FIRESTORM PEAK
You step through the crystal gates.
The moment you cross the threshold, the oppressive atmospheric pressure 
lessens slightly. The constant hair-raising static reduces, though doesn't 
disappear entirely. The corridor ahead is carved from solid stone, clearly 
worked by skilled hands - the walls are smooth, the ceiling a perfect arch.
The corridor extends 120 feet ahead, dimly lit by a faint phosphorescent glow 
from the stone itself. At the far end, you can see it opens into a larger chamber.
The air inside is stale but breathable, with an odd metallic tang.
"Well," Kessa whispers, hand on her rapier, "we're in. Now let's hope we can 
find a defensible room before something finds us."
You advance down the entry corridor. As you near the end, what do 
you see?
Searched project for "entry corridor room 2a first chamber gates firestorm 
peak"
1 result
 
ROOM 2A - THE AMBUSH ROOM
As you reach the end of the corridor, it opens into a larger chamber. The 
phosphorescent glow continues here, giving you dim visibility.
The chamber is roughly 40 feet wide and extends northward. About 20 feet 
into the room, you see a wall blocking the continuation of the corridor - clearly 
not part of the original construction. It's crude stonework, about 10 feet tall, 
with what look like sharpened spikes or barbs protruding from the top.
The room feels... wrong. Too quiet. Your patron's pull tugs you forward, but 
your soldier's instincts scream ambush.
Rolling Perception to detect the Duergar ambush
 
Kessa grabs your arm suddenly, pulling you back. "Wait," she hisses, eyes 
narrowed. "Something's not right. The air... it's moving wrong. Like there's 
breathing."
You both freeze, listening. She's right - there's an almost imperceptible sound 
of slow, controlled breathing coming from behind the wall. Multiple sources.
"Invisible," Kessa whispers. "Behind the wall. Waiting for us to try climbing 
it."
Your eyes adjust further, and you notice faint disturbances in the air - heat 
shimmer from large bodies. Four of them, you think. Massive - at least 16 feet 
tall based on the heat patterns. They're standing perfectly still, enormous 
polearms ready.
"Duergar," you murmur. "Enlarged. The bastards set up a welcoming 
committee."
Kessa nods grimly. "We're exhausted, nearly out of resources, and they're 
fresh and ready. If we try to fight through here..."
She doesn't finish the sentence. You both know the odds.
"We need a defensible place to rest before we can tackle this," she says. "But 
where? We can't go back outside - those scorpions proved that. And this is 
clearly the main route forward."
What do you do?
*        Try to fight through despite your condition (4 enlarged invisible Duergar 
with reach weapons)
*        Look for an alternative route (the adventure mentions bolt-holes and 
side passages)
*        Try to negotiate/bluff your way past
*        Use magic creatively to bypass or neutralize the ambush
*        Something else?
Alternate entry points
Nov 30
Smart - no point throwing yourselves at a prepared ambush when you're this 
beat up.
 
SEARCHING FOR ALTERNATE ROUTES
You and Kessa back carefully away from the ambush chamber, retreating to 
the entry corridor.
"There has to be another way," Kessa says quietly. "This place is huge - the 
Duergar can't have guards on every passage. Let's look for side tunnels, 
maintenance shafts, anything."
Rolling to search for alternate entry points
 
EXCELLENT SUCCESS!
Your trained military eye spots what Kessa missed - faint tool marks along the 
northern wall of the entry corridor, about 30 feet back from the ambush 
chamber. They're subtle, almost invisible in the dim phosphorescent light, but 
they're there.
Running your hands along the stone, you find it - a seam. A concealed door, 
cleverly fitted to blend with the natural rock.
"Kessa, here," you whisper.
She pulls out her thieves' tools and examines the mechanism. "No lock, just a 
hidden catch. Probably a bolt-hole the Duergar use to access their barracks 
without going through the main chamber."
With a soft click, the door swings inward, revealing a narrow tunnel - only 
about 4 feet tall and 3 feet wide. Perfect for Duergar-sized creatures, cramped 
for you.
"We'll have to crouch-walk," Kessa says, peering into the darkness. "But it 
leads somewhere. I can feel air movement."
The tunnel is unlit, carved from raw stone. It heads roughly northeast, curving 
out of sight.
Do you:
*        Enter the bolt-hole tunnel (will need light source or darkvision)
*        Continue searching for other options
*        Reconsider the frontal approach
Note: If you enter, what's your light situation?
*        Kessa can cast Dancing Lights or use a torch
*        You could use a torch
*        Risk moving in darkness (Kessa has no darkvision, you don't either as 
human)
Devil's sight?
Nov 30
Ah, excellent point! Let me check your Devil's Sight invocation.
Devil's Sight: You can see normally in darkness (magical and nonmagical) to 
120 feet.
So YOU can see perfectly in the darkness! However, Kessa doesn't have 
darkvision - she's half-elf, which gives her darkvision 60 feet in dim light, but 
this tunnel is pitch black.
Options:
1.        You lead, Kessa follows closely - You can see and guide her 
verbally, she keeps a hand on your shoulder. Stealthy but slower.
2.        Kessa uses Dancing Lights cantrip - Gives light for both of you, but 
risks alerting enemies. The lights can be positioned ahead to scout.
3.        Kessa uses a torch - Simple solution, but definitely gives away your 
position.
4.        You use Mage Hand to carry a torch ahead - Clever! Light source 
is 30 feet ahead of you, you can see with Devil's Sight, Kessa can see by 
torchlight.
What's your preference?
Keep it dark. I lead, Kessa follows
Nov 30
Rolling Stealth for moving through the dark tunnel
 
MOVING THROUGH THE BOLT-HOLE
"Stay dark," you whisper. "I can see. Keep your hand on my shoulder and 
follow exactly where I step."
Kessa nods, trusting you, and places her hand on your shoulder blade.
You enter the cramped tunnel, hunched over, your Devil's Sight cutting 
through the absolute darkness like it's noon. The tunnel is rough-hewn, tool 
marks visible on the walls - Duergar work, functional but crude.
About 20 feet in, disaster strikes. In your exhausted, wounded state, you 
misjudge a step. Your boot scrapes loudly against loose stone, and you stumble 
slightly. The sound echoes down the tunnel.
Behind you, Kessa - moving blind despite her best efforts - bumps into you, 
and her crossbow clatters against the stone wall.
CLANK
You both freeze, hearts pounding.
Silence. Then, from somewhere ahead in the darkness, you hear it - a grunt of 
surprise, then rapid Dwarvish speech. Harsh, guttural syllables you don't 
understand, but the tone is clear: alert.
Your Devil's Sight shows you the tunnel ahead continues another 30 feet 
before branching. But now you can see movement - shadows shifting in a 
chamber beyond.
"They heard us," Kessa whispers, her hand tightening on your shoulder. "How 
many?"
Peering ahead, you see the tunnel opens into what looks like a small barracks 
room. Through the opening, you can make out bunks, equipment... and at 
least two Duergar scrambling for weapons.
What do you do?
*        Rush forward and attack before they're fully ready
*        Retreat back to the entry corridor
*        Hold position and prepare to defend the narrow tunnel (tactical 
advantage - they can only come at you one at a time)
*        Try to bluff in Common that you're lost explorers
*        Something else?
Current Status:
*        Johannes: 7/53 HP + 9 temp HP, 0/2 spell slots
*        Kessa: 32/40 HP, 2/4 first-level spell slots
Hold position and eldritch blast
Nov 30
Rolling Eldritch Blast in the tunnel chokepoint
And have Kressa ready dancing light as a surprise when the dwarves approach
Nov 30
Excellent tactical thinking! Blind them right when they enter the tunnel.
 
JOHANNES & KESSA - DEFENSIVE POSITION
"Hold here," you growl, bracing yourself in the narrow tunnel. Your first 
eldritch blast goes wild in the cramped space, crackling against the stone wall. 
The second streaks true, slamming into the first Duergar and blasting him 
backward into the barracks room.
He staggers but stays on his feet, blood streaming from his chest. Both gray 
dwarves are now grabbing weapons - picks and hammers.
"Kessa, ready Dancing Lights," you whisper. "Wait until they're right on us, 
then blind them."
"Got it," she murmurs, her fingers already weaving the cantrip's pattern, 
holding the magic ready to release.
The wounded Duergar snarls something in Dwarvish, and both of them start 
advancing toward the tunnel entrance. They're moving cautiously - they know 
the tunnel is a chokepoint that favors you.
Through your Devil's Sight, you watch them approach. They're about 15 feet 
from the tunnel entrance now... 10 feet... 5 feet...
The first Duergar steps into the tunnel opening, his eyes struggling in the pitch 
darkness.
"NOW!" you shout.
Kessa's Dancing Lights surprise and rolling initiative
 
COMBAT - ROUND 1
Four brilliant orbs of light suddenly blaze into existence right in the Duergar's 
faces! They cry out, recoiling, hands thrown up to shield their eyes. Both are 
completely blinded by the sudden illumination!
TURN ORDER:
1.        Kessa (17) ? UP
2.        Duergar 2 (17) - BLINDED
3.        Johannes (15)
4.        Duergar 1 (4) - BLINDED, wounded (6 damage)
KESSA'S TURN:
She's already got her hand crossbow up. "One shot, make it count," she 
mutters, aiming at the wounded Duergar staggering in the tunnel entrance!
Rolling Kessa's attack with advantage
 
KESSA - PERFECT SHOT!
THUNK!
Kessa's bolt takes the wounded, blinded Duergar right through the throat. He 
gurgles once, drops his pick, and collapses in the tunnel entrance!
"One down!" she shouts, already reloading.
 
DUERGAR 2'S TURN:
The second gray dwarf, still blinded and disoriented, stumbles forward over 
his companion's body into the tunnel. He swings his warhammer blindly!
Rolling blinded Duergar's attack
The Duergar swings wildly, the warhammer clanging off the stone walls with a 
shower of sparks! He can't see a damn thing!
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
One down, one blinded and helpless. Finish him!
Rolling Eldritch Blast with advantage
 
JOHANNES - EXECUTION
Both of your eldritch blasts strike true! The first catches the blinded Duergar 
in the chest, spinning him around. The second slams into his back, blasting 
him forward. He crashes face-first into the tunnel wall and slides down, dead.
COMBAT COMPLETE - VICTORY!
Kessa's dancing lights fade, leaving you both in darkness again - though your 
Devil's Sight shows the aftermath clearly. Two dead Duergar in the cramped 
tunnel, their blood pooling on the stone.
"Nice work," Kessa breathes, still tense. "But that wasn't quiet. If there are 
more in the barracks ahead..."
She's right. You listen carefully. Silence from the chamber beyond, but that 
doesn't mean it's empty.
What do you do?
*        Advance cautiously into the barracks room (might be more Duergar, 
might be empty)
*        Search the two dead Duergar quickly
*        Retreat and try to find yet another route
*        Push forward to find a room to barricade and rest
Remember: You're at 7/53 HP + 9 temp, Kessa at 32/40 HP, and 
you desperately need to rest
Search the dwarves then look for a hiding spot
Nov 30
Rolling loot from the dead Duergar
 
SEARCHING THE BODIES
Working quickly, you strip the Duergar of valuables - 39 silver pieces, 19 gold, 
and 3 small rough-cut gems. The weapons are serviceable but nothing special. 
Their armor is too small for either of you, though Kessa pockets one of the 
picks.
"Might be useful for prying open doors," she mutters.
You take a swig from one of their waterskins - it's weak ale with a bitter fungal 
aftertaste, but it's wet. You offer it to Kessa, who grimaces but drinks.
 
SEARCHING FOR A HIDING SPOT
You advance cautiously into the barracks room beyond. Your Devil's Sight 
reveals:
Examining the barracks for hiding spots
 
THE BARRACKS ROOM
The chamber is a typical Duergar sleeping quarters - functional, cramped, 
smelling of stone dust and stale sweat. Ten small cots line the walls, 
footlockers scattered about containing little of value.
Most importantly, it's currently empty except for the two you just killed.
As you examine the northern wall, you find another secret door - these gray 
dwarves have escape routes everywhere.
"Smart," Kessa murmurs, tracing the hidden seam. "Multiple exits. We could 
use this if we get cornered."
You drag the two Duergar bodies into the room and push some cots against 
the northern door as a makeshift barricade. It won't stop a determined assault, 
but it'll give you warning.
Kessa eyes the small cots dubiously. "We're not going to fit on these."
"Floor it is," you say, already feeling the exhaustion pulling at you. "We need a 
short rest minimum. Get our spell slots back, patch ourselves up."
"What about patrols?" she asks, though she's already sitting down heavily 
against the wall.
"We have maybe 2-4 hours before someone checks on these two. Short rest 
takes an hour. It's a risk, but we don't have a choice."
Do you want to:
*        Take a short rest here (1 hour, regain spell slots, use Hit Dice to heal)
*        Push on through the secret passage first to find somewhere deeper/safer
*        Set watches and rest in shifts
If you rest, how do you want to heal?
*        You have Hit Dice (1d8 + CON mod each, you have 6 available)
*        Kessa can use Song of Rest for an extra d6
*        Kessa could use spell slots to heal with Cure Wounds
Push forward first and our some distance between us and the bodies before 
sleeping
Nov 30
Smart - don't sleep next to the crime scene. Let's move deeper before they find 
the bodies.
 
MOVING DEEPER INTO THE COMPLEX
"Good call," Kessa says, pushing herself to her feet with a grimace. "Let's put 
some distance between us and these bodies. When they find them, I don't 
want to be in the adjacent room."
You open the secret door in the northern wall. Another narrow passage, 
similar to the bolt-hole but curving east. Your Devil's Sight pierces the 
darkness ahead.
"Same as before," you tell Kessa. "Hand on my shoulder, stay quiet."
Rolling stealth and exploration
 
EXCELLENT DISCOVERY!
Moving with extreme care, you navigate the winding passages. Your earlier 
clumsiness forgotten, you guide Kessa perfectly through the darkness. She 
follows with practiced silence, trusting your directions completely.
After about ten minutes of careful movement, you spot something - a small 
side chamber, easily missed. It's set back from the main passage behind a 
natural rock formation that creates a blind corner.
Inside, your Devil's Sight reveals:
A HIDDEN STORAGE ROOM
*        Size: 15 ft x 15 ft, 8 ft ceiling
*        Contents: Old mining equipment, broken picks, empty crates
*        Entrances: Single narrow opening (easily watched/barricaded)
*        Condition: Dusty, clearly unused for months or years
*        Defensibility: EXCELLENT - off the main routes, easy to miss, single 
chokepoint
"This is perfect," you whisper to Kessa as you guide her inside. "Storage room, 
forgotten, off the beaten path."
She pulls out a small candle from her pack and lights it, keeping it shielded. 
The flickering light reveals the dusty chamber.
"How'd you find this?" she asks, impressed.
"Military training. Always look for the overlooked spaces." You're already 
dragging an old crate across the entrance. "We can stack these to block the 
opening, leave a gap we can watch through."
Together, you create a makeshift barricade - not impenetrable, but enough to 
give warning and force attackers into a fatal funnel.
Kessa slumps against the back wall, finally letting her guard down. 
"Okay. Now we rest. Gods, I'm exhausted."
You're swaying on your feet, the adrenaline finally wearing off. Your wounds 
throb, your head pounds, and you can barely keep your eyes open.
 
SHORT REST
You have 1 hour to recover in relative safety.
HEALING OPTIONS:
Johannes:
*        Current: 7/53 HP (+ 9 temp HP that will fade)
*        Can spend Hit Dice: 6d8 available, each heals 1d8+3
*        Kessa's Song of Rest: Add +1d6 to ONE Hit Die roll
Kessa:
*        Current: 32/40 HP
*        Can spend Hit Dice: 6d8 available, each heals 1d8+2
*        Can cast Cure Wounds (1st level, heals 1d8+4) - has 2 spell slots left
*        Song of Rest: Adds +1d6 to one Hit Die
How many Hit Dice do you each want to spend?
3 HD for Johannes, 1 for kressa
Nov 30
Rolling healing during short rest
 
ONE HOUR LATER
You wake from a light, troubled sleep. Kessa kept first watch, now she's gently 
shaking your shoulder.
"Your turn," she whispers. "Nothing's come by. I think we're safe for now."
You sit up, wincing. Your wounds have closed somewhat - magical healing and 
natural recovery working together. You're still battered (27/53 HP), but you're 
functional again. More importantly, you can feel your connection to your 
patron restored, your spell slots recharged.
Kessa looks much better - fully healed and alert, though still weary. She settles 
down to sleep while you take the second watch.
The hour passes quietly. No sounds of alarm, no patrols. Through the small 
gap in your barricade, you watch the dark passage with your Devil's Sight, but 
nothing moves.
When Kessa wakes, you both sit in the dimness, sharing some rations and 
water.
"So," she says quietly, "we're deeper in the complex now. We've bypassed that 
main ambush point. What's the plan? Your... patron. What's it telling you?"
You focus inward on that ever-present pull. It's stronger than ever, a insistent 
tug pointing... northeast, you think. Deeper into the mountain, toward the 
inner chambers.
"It wants us to go deeper," you say. "Toward the heart of this place."
Kessa nods. "The Inner Sanctum. Where the Elder Elves opened their Gate to 
the Far Realm." She shivers. "Whatever your fiend wants, it's in there. 
Question is - how do we get there without fighting through the entire Duergar 
garrison?"
What's your approach?
*        Try to sneak through the complex using these back passages
*        Scout ahead to map out Duergar positions
*        Look for intelligence - maps, documents that show the layout
*        Push forward boldly and fight when necessary
*        Something else?
Current Status:
*        Johannes: 27/53 HP, 2/2 spell slots, 3/6 HD remaining
*        Kessa: 40/40 HP, 2/4 spell slots, 5/6 HD remaining
*        You're well-rested and ready to continue
Search for intelligence
Nov 30
Rolling Investigation/Perception to search for intel
 
SEARCHING FOR INTELLIGENCE - EXCELLENT SUCCESS!
"Good idea," you murmur. "Before we go blundering around, let's see what we 
can learn."
You methodically search the storage room while Kessa keeps watch. Most of it 
is junk - broken mining tools, empty crates, discarded equipment. But your 
military training serves you well - you know soldiers and workers often hide 
things in storage areas.
Behind a stack of rotting crates, you find it.
A leather satchel, forgotten or deliberately hidden. Inside:
1. A Crude Map
Drawn on a piece of scraped hide in charcoal and what looks like dried blood. 
It shows the Duergar complex - the "Outer Complex" as it's labeled in rough 
Dwarvish script (which you can partially read due to its similarity to 
Common).
Searched project for "Wellfast Duergar leader map outer complex layout"
1 result
 
CRITICAL INTELLIGENCE FOUND!
You pull out the map and study it carefully. Kessa lights her candle to see.
"By the gods," she breathes, looking over your shoulder. "This is a map of the 
whole Duergar complex."
The map is crude but detailed enough to be useful. You can make out:
WELLFAST'S MAP - Key Intelligence:
1.        Red Garrison Markers - Show major Duergar strongpoints:
*        The ambush room (Room 2a) you avoided - 4 enlarged Duergar
*        Multiple checkpoints with 4-6 guards each
*        A "Grand Promenade" (Room 31) - major bazaar with steeder-
riders on patrol
*        Guard barracks scattered throughout
2.        Route to Inner Chambers - Labeled "The Twisted Caverns"
*        The map shows a path through the Duergar complex leading to 
caves
*        These caves connect to the "Inner Sanctum" where your patron 
pulls you
3.        Key Locations Marked:
*        Room 41: Labeled "Wellfast's Quarters" - This is their 
commander
*        Slave Pens (Room 23) - Goblins kept as workers
*        The Gauntlet (Room 3) - Trapped corridor with pit traps
*        Checkpoints (Rooms 17, 24) - Alert points that warn Wellfast
2. A Scrawled Note
Written in Common, in a shaky hand:
"Wellfast has one of the crystal components. Sapphire rod in his quarters. 
The deepspawn in the caverns guards the emerald. Madreus keeps the third. 
All three needed to refocus the Vast Gate. -N"
The initial "N" - could this be from Nigel, one of the lost adventurers?
3. A Warning
Another scrap:
"Beware gibberlings in the Twisted Caverns. Hundreds. Also - Wellfast 
controls them somehow. Unnatural."
 
Kessa studies the map intently. "This is incredible intel. Look - if we can avoid 
the checkpoints and the Grand Promenade, we might be able to sneak through 
the residential areas and reach the Twisted Caverns without fighting the whole 
garrison."
She traces a finger along the map. "But Johannes... this note about crystal 
components. Does your patron want one of those?"
You focus on the pull. It's definitely drawing you toward the Inner Sanctum, 
past the Twisted Caverns.
What do you make of this intelligence? And what's your plan 
forward?
Is there a safe way to approach Wellfasts quests without stumbling into a 
patrol?
Nov 30
Analyzing the map for routes to Wellfast's quarters
 
TACTICAL ANALYSIS - EXCELLENT SUCCESS!
You study the map with your soldier's eye, tracing patrol routes, garrison 
positions, and traffic patterns. After several minutes, you tap the hide map.
"There's a way," you say quietly. "It's not safe exactly, but it avoids the major 
strongpoints."
You point out the route to Kessa:
THE STEALTH ROUTE TO WELLFAST'S QUARTERS:
"Look - we're here, in the barracks area. Most of the garrison markers are 
concentrated in three places:
1.        The Entry Ambush (Room 2a) - which we bypassed
2.        The Checkpoints (Rooms 17, 24) - alert stations that warn Wellfast
3.        The Grand Promenade (Room 31) - the bazaar, heavily patrolled
"But Wellfast's quarters are in the residential section, accessible through side 
passages. The map shows bolt-holes and service corridors throughout - the 
Duergar use them to move without going through public areas."
You trace a path with your finger:
"If we continue through these back passages, avoiding the main 
thoroughfares, we can reach the residential quarter. The map shows Wellfast's 
suite is near the Grand Promenade, but there's a service entrance from the 
back - probably for servants or maintenance."
THE ROUTE:
*        Continue through bolt-holes and storage areas (low traffic)
*        Navigate around the slave pens (Room 23) - goblins won't raise alarm 
against non-Duergar
*        Slip through residential quarters when off-duty Duergar are sleeping or 
in the bazaar
*        Approach Wellfast's quarters from the service entrance
RISKS YOU IDENTIFY:
1.        Timing: Need to move when Duergar are either at the bazaar or 
sleeping
2.        Wellfast Himself: If he's in his quarters, he's a major threat (the note 
suggests he's powerful)
3.        Magical Wards: His quarters are likely protected with alarms or 
glyphs
4.        Escape Route: Getting out with a stolen crystal component will be 
harder than getting in
Kessa nods slowly. "So we could potentially reach his quarters without fighting 
through the garrison. But..."
She looks at you seriously. "Do we want to steal from their commander? That 
crystal component - is that what your patron wants? Or does it want 
something deeper in, past the Twisted Caverns in the Inner Sanctum?"
Good question. What does your patron actually want?
You focus inward on that fiendish pull. It's not pointing at Wellfast's quarters - 
it's pulling you past them, deeper into the mountain, toward the Twisted 
Caverns and the Inner Sanctum beyond.
"No," you say finally. "It doesn't want the crystal. It wants something deeper. 
In the Inner Sanctum itself."
"Then why risk Wellfast at all?" Kessa asks. "We could use this route to slip 
past the Duergar entirely, reach the Twisted Caverns, and head for whatever 
your patron actually wants."
DECISION POINT:
Option A: Bypass Wellfast entirely
*        Use the stealth route to reach the Twisted Caverns
*        Avoid unnecessary combat with the Duergar
*        Head straight for what your patron wants in the Inner Sanctum
*        Leave the crystal components alone (they're not your mission)
Option B: Hit Wellfast's quarters first
*        The crystal component might be valuable (could be leverage or payment 
to patron)
*        Wellfast is their commander - disrupting him could help on the way out
*        High risk - if caught, the entire garrison comes down on you
*        Might find other useful intel or equipment
What's your call?
The staff seems far too important to be left behind. V whatever is deeper is 
likely keyed to these elements. Don't want to have to back track
Nov 30
Excellent strategic thinking - if you need those crystal components to interact 
with whatever's in the Inner Sanctum, better to grab them now than have to 
fight your way back through.
 
DECISION: ACQUIRE THE CRYSTAL COMPONENTS
"You're right," you say, studying the map. "These crystal components - three of 
them needed to 'refocus the Vast Gate.' That's not a coincidence. Whatever my 
patron wants in the Inner Sanctum, it's almost certainly connected to that 
gate."
Kessa nods. "Better to have them and not need them than reach the Inner 
Sanctum and realize we're missing a key."
You trace the locations on the map:
THE THREE CRYSTAL COMPONENTS:
1.        Sapphire Rod - Wellfast's quarters (Room 41)
2.        Emerald Rod - Guarded by a "deepspawn" in the Twisted Caverns 
(Room 74)
3.        Third Component - Held by someone named "Madreus" (location 
unknown, likely Inner Sanctum)
"So we need at least two," you mutter. "Wellfast's and the deepspawn's. Maybe 
all three if we find this Madreus."
"What's a deepspawn?" Kessa asks, looking worried.
You shake your head. "Nothing good. Some kind of aberration, probably. We'll 
deal with it when we get there."
THE PLAN:
"We use the stealth route to Wellfast's quarters, acquire the sapphire 
component, then continue to the Twisted Caverns for the emerald one. With 
luck, Wellfast won't even know we were there until we're long gone."
Kessa checks her equipment. "And if he's in his quarters?"
You meet her eyes. "Then we fight. Fast and hard. Kill him before he can raise 
the alarm."
She takes a deep breath. "Alright. When do we move?"
Analyzing optimal timing for the mission
 
"Now," you say decisively. "We move now. We have maybe 1-3 hours before 
someone finds those bodies in the barracks. Once that happens, the whole 
complex goes on alert."
Kessa carefully folds the map and tucks it into her pack. "Lead the way."
You extinguish her candle, plunging the room back into darkness. Your Devil's 
Sight pierces it easily.
"Same as before - hand on my shoulder, trust me to guide you."
She nods, gripping your shoulder.
You remove the barricade carefully and slip into the passage, moving with 
purpose now. The map is burned into your memory - every turn, every 
junction.
NAVIGATION CHECK - Moving to Wellfast's Quarters:
Rolling stealth checks for infiltration
 
THE INFILTRATION - DETECTED!
The first part goes reasonably well. You navigate the twisting passages, past 
empty residential chambers. A few Duergar are in their quarters, but they 
don't notice you slipping by in the darkness.
The slave pens are easier - the goblins see you through the bars of their cages, 
but they watch silently, hope flickering in their eyes. They won't alert their 
masters.
But as you approach the area near Wellfast's quarters, disaster strikes.
You're moving down a side corridor when your boot catches on a loose stone - 
you stumble, catching yourself against the wall with a scrape of leather on 
stone.
The sound echoes.
"Who's there?" A harsh voice in Dwarvish, followed by the sound of armor and 
weapons.
Two Duergar guards round the corner ahead of you, picks in hand. They're 
maybe 30 feet away, peering into the darkness. They can't see you yet - but 
they know someone's there.
One of them starts to reach for a horn at his belt - an alarm!
CRISIS MOMENT - INITIATIVE!
Rolling initiative for surprise encounter
 
SURPRISE ROUND - STOP THE ALARM!
Both you and Kessa react instantly. The guards are surprised, still squinting 
into the darkness, one reaching for his horn.
You both act simultaneously in the surprise round. The guards 
can't act yet.
JOHANNES & KESSA - What do you do?
Options:
*        Johannes: Eldritch Blast the guard with the horn (2 beams, can split 
or focus)
*        Kessa: Can use Vicious Mockery (save or take damage + disadvantage), 
or crossbow, or a spell
Critical decision: Do you focus fire on the guard with the horn, or split 
targets to try to drop both before they can shout?
Remember:
*        If the horn sounds, Wellfast and the entire complex will be alerted
*        These are 30 feet away
*        After this surprise round, they'll act normally and can shout/blow horn
What's your play?
Both beams on horn blower
Nov 30
Ranpython3 << 'EOF' import random print("SURPRISE ROUND - 
STOP THE ALARM!") print("=" * 50) print("\nJOHANNES - 
Both Eldritch Blast beams at Guard with Horn") print("-" 
* 50) total_damage = 0 hits = 0 for beam in range(1, 3): 
attack_roll = random.randint(1, 20) attack_total = 
attack_roll + 6 print(f"\nBeam {beam}:") print(f" Attack 
Roll: {attack_roll} + 6 = {attack_total} vs AC 4") if 
attack_roll == 20: print(f" CRITICAL HIT!") damage_dice1 
= random.randint(1, 10) damage_dice2 = random.randint(1, 
10) damage = damage_dice1 + damage_dice2 + 3 print(f" 
Damage: {damage_dice1} + {damage_dice2} + 3 = {damage} 
force") print(f" Duergar pushed 10 feet back!") 
total_damage += damage hits += 1 elif attack_roll == 1: 
print(f" CRITICAL MISS!") elif attack_total >= 4: 
print(f" HIT!") damage_dice = random.randint(1, 10) 
damage = damage_dice + 3 print(f" Damage: {damage_dice} + 
3 = {damage} force") print(f" Duergar pushed 10 feet 
back!") total_damage += damage hits += 1 else: print(f" 
MISS!") print(f"\n{'=' * 50}") print(f"Total: {hits} 
hits, {total_damage} damage") print(f"Duergar HP: ~9 
average") if total_damage >= 9: print("\n*** GUARD 1 
(HORN BEARER) IS KILLED! ***") print("The horn clatters 
to the ground, never blown!") guard1_alive = False else: 
print(f"\nGuard 1 is wounded ({total_damage} damage) but 
still up!") print("He's staggering but still has the 
horn!") guard1_alive = True # Kessa's turn print(f"\n{'=' 
* 50}") print("KESSA'S TURN") print("-" * 50) if 
guard1_alive: print("\nKessa targets the wounded horn 
bearer with her crossbow!") attack = random.randint(1, 
20) + 5 print(f"Attack: {attack} vs AC 4") if attack >= 
4: damage = random.randint(1, 6) + 2 print(f"HIT! 
{damage} piercing damage") if total_damage + damage >= 9: 
print("\n*** GUARD 1 IS KILLED! ***") print("Kessa's bolt 
takes him through the throat!") print("The horn falls 
from his dying grasp!") guard1_alive = False else: 
print(f"Guard 1 still standing! ({total_damage + 
damage}/9 HP)") else: print("MISS!") else: print("\nGuard 
1 already dead - Kessa shoots at Guard 2!") attack = 
random.randint(1, 20) + 5 print(f"Attack: {attack} vs AC 
4") if attack >= 4: damage = random.randint(1, 6) + 2 
print(f"HIT! {damage} piercing damage to Guard 2") else: 
print("MISS!") print(f"\n{'=' * 50}") if not 
guard1_alive: print("ALARM STOPPED - Horn never 
sounded!") else: print("WARNING: Guard 1 still alive with 
horn!") print("Guards are no
Cast hex, then eldritch blast on horn blower
Nov 30
Rolling Hex + Eldritch Blast combo on horn bearer
 
SURPRISE ROUND - PERFECT EXECUTION!
You react with lethal precision. Your hand shoots out, weaving the hex curse 
as dark energy wraps around the guard reaching for his horn. Then, without 
pausing, twin eldritch blasts erupt from your palm.
The first beam strikes him in the chest - 12 points of pure force combined with 
4 points of withering necrotic energy. He staggers backward with a grunt of 
pain.
The second beam catches him before he can recover - another wave of force 
and corruption that literally tears through his torso. He's blasted backward 20 
feet, dead before he hits the ground. The horn tumbles from his lifeless 
fingers, clattering on the stone.
Kessa's crossbow twangs and her bolt catches the second guard in the 
shoulder - 4 points of damage. He cries out in pain and surprise.
ALARM PREVENTED! The horn never sounded!
 
ROUND 1 - INITIATIVE
Setting up Round 1
 
ROUND 1 - JOHANNES'S TURN
One guard obliterated, one wounded and terrified. The second guard saw his 
companion literally disintegrated by your dark magic - he's clearly 
outmatched.
What do you do?
Options:
*        Finish him with Eldritch Blast (he still has Hex on him... wait, no - Hex 
is on Guard 1 who's dead. You'd need to use bonus action to move it to 
Guard 2)
*        Move Hex to Guard 2 (bonus action) then Eldritch Blast
*        Try to intimidate him into silence/surrender
*        Rush him for melee to silence him before he can shout
*        Something else
The guard is wounded, frightened, 30 feet away, and about to either fight or 
flee/shout for help.
What's your move?
Hex, then EB on guard 2
Nov 30
Moving Hex and casting Eldritch Blast on Guard 2
 
COMBAT COMPLETE - FLAWLESS EXECUTION
The dark curse shifts from the dead guard to the living one like a shadow 
changing hosts. The surviving Duergar's eyes widen in terror as he feels the 
hex settle over him.
He opens his mouth - whether to scream or beg, you'll never know.
Your first eldritch blast is a critical hit - 18 points of combined force and 
necrotic energy that punches clean through his chest. He staggers, already 
dying.
The second beam catches him as he falls - 11 more points of damage that 
ensures he's dead before he hits the ground.
Both bodies lie still in the corridor. No alarm. No shouts. Clean and silent.
 
AFTERMATH
Kessa hurries forward, checking the bodies quickly. "Dead. Both of them." She 
retrieves her crossbow bolt and looks at you with newfound respect. "That hex 
combination... that was brutal. Effective, but brutal."
You're breathing hard, adrenaline pumping. The dark energy of your patron 
thrums through you - you can feel its approval at the violence.
"We need to hide these bodies," Kessa says urgently, "and quickly. We're right 
outside Wellfast's area."
She's right. According to the map, you're very close to his quarters now. The 
service entrance should be just ahead.
CURRENT STATUS:
*        Johannes: 27/53 HP, 1/2 spell slots, Hex active (concentration, 1 hour 
duration)
*        Kessa: 40/40 HP, 2/4 spell slots
*        Two dead Duergar guards in the corridor
*        No alarm raised (yet)
*        Very close to Wellfast's quarters
What do you do?
*        Drag bodies into a side room/alcove quickly
*        Leave them - push forward to Wellfast's quarters immediately
*        Search the bodies first
*        Scout ahead before moving the bodies
Time is of the essence - every minute increases the chance someone finds 
either these bodies or the ones you left in the barracks earlier.
Hide and search bodies, ensure stealth holds
Nov 30
Searching and hiding the guard bodies
 
BODIES CONCEALED - PERFECT EXECUTION
Working quickly and efficiently, you strip the guards of their coin - 32 silver, 
10 gold, not much but every bit helps. You leave the picks and horn.
Your eye catches something just down the corridor - a maintenance alcove, 
partially concealed behind a faded tapestry showing ancient Duergar warriors 
crushing surface elves. Perfect.
"There," you whisper to Kessa, pointing.
Together you drag the bodies into the alcove. Your military training shows - 
you move them silently, efficiently, arranging them in the shadows where they 
won't be immediately visible. Unless someone specifically searches this alcove 
or notices the blood trail (which Kessa quickly scuffs over with her boot), the 
bodies won't be found for hours, maybe days.
"Good work," Kessa murmurs, smoothing the tapestry back into place. "Now 
let's move before our luck runs out."
 
APPROACHING WELLFAST'S QUARTERS
You continue down the corridor, your Devil's Sight guiding you through the 
darkness. According to the map, Wellfast's quarters should be just ahead - the 
service entrance on the east side.
After another minute of careful movement, you find it: a nondescript door, 
ironbound and solid. Unlike the main entrance (which the map shows is 
grander and likely trapped/warded), this looks like a servant's entrance.
Examining Wellfast's service entrance
 
AT THE SERVICE ENTRANCE
You examine the door carefully. There's something about it - a faint tingle of 
magic that makes the hair on your arms stand up, but you can't quite pin down 
what kind of ward it might be. Could be an alarm, could be nothing.
Kessa examines the lock and the door frame, running her fingers along the 
edges. "No traps I can see," she whispers. "Standard lock - I can pick it in 
under a minute."
You press your ear to the door. Thick wood muffles sound, but you hear... 
nothing. Either the room is empty, or whoever's inside is very quiet. Or 
sleeping.
Kessa looks at you. "Call it, Johannes. Do we go in?"
DECISION POINT:
What's your approach?
1.        Pick the lock and enter quietly
*        Risk: If someone's inside and awake, you're caught
*        Risk: Unknown magical ward might trigger
*        Benefit: If empty, you get the component cleanly
2.        Knock/announce yourself (bluff as servants/guards)
*        Risk: If Wellfast is inside, he'll know something's wrong
*        Benefit: Could determine if occupied before entering
3.        Try to disable/bypass the magical ward first
*        Requires: Arcana check or Dispel Magic (you don't have it)
*        Risk: Might trigger the ward trying to disable it
4.        Find another entrance
*        The main entrance (more heavily defended/warded)
*        Give up and move on to the Twisted Caverns instead
What do you do?
Arcana check
Nov 30
Rolling Arcana check to analyze the magical ward
 
ARCANA CHECK - SUCCESS!
You focus your senses on the magical energy emanating from the door. After a 
moment of concentration, the pattern becomes clear.
"It's a Glyph of Warding," you whisper to Kessa. "Alarm variant. The moment 
we open this door without the correct passphrase, it'll send a silent magical 
alert straight to Wellfast - wherever he is in the complex."
Kessa's face falls. "So if we go through this door, he knows immediately."
"Exactly."
She thinks for a moment. "Can you disable it?"
You shake your head. "Not without Dispel Magic, which I don't have. And I 
don't know the passphrase."
"So our options are..."
You consider the situation:
OPTIONS:
1.        Trigger the ward and rush the grab
*        Open door, grab the sapphire component, get out fast
*        Wellfast will be alerted and come running
*        You'll have maybe 2-5 minutes before he arrives with 
reinforcements
2.        Find another way in
*        Look for a window or ventilation shaft
*        Try to break through a wall (loud, slow)
*        Check if there's another unguarded entrance
3.        Abandon Wellfast's component
*        Skip the sapphire rod entirely
*        Head straight for the Twisted Caverns and the deepspawn's 
emerald rod
*        Hope one component is enough (or that you can get Madreus's 
third)
4.        Wait and ambush
*        Set up an ambush outside the door
*        Lure Wellfast out somehow
*        Kill him, then search his quarters at leisure
Kessa looks at you. "Your call, Johannes. But we need to decide fast. Every 
minute we stand here increases the chance someone finds those bodies."
What do you do?
Find another way...
Nov 30
Searching for alternate entry to Wellfast's quarters
 
ALTERNATE ENTRY - EXCELLENT DISCOVERY!
"Let's circle around," you whisper. "There has to be another way in."
You and Kessa move along the corridor, examining the walls and ceiling. 
You're looking for anything - ventilation shafts, adjoining rooms, structural 
weaknesses.
And then you find it.
About thirty feet down from the service entrance, there's a storage room - one 
of many scattered throughout the complex. But this one shares a wall with 
Wellfast's quarters, and when you examine that wall closely, your soldier's eye 
spots something crucial.
"Kessa, look at this."
The wall is stone, but it's newer stone than the rest - different color, different 
texture. Someone walled off what was probably once a connecting door or 
passage.
"They sealed it," Kessa says, running her fingers along the mortar. "Probably 
when Wellfast took over and made these his private quarters."
"Right. But look..." You point to a section near the floor. "The mortar here is 
crumbling. Water damage, maybe, or just age. And behind it..." You tap gently. 
The sound is hollow.
"We could break through," Kessa says, eyes lighting up. "Quietly, with those 
Duergar picks we've been collecting. Chip away the weak mortar, pull out 
enough stones to make a hole big enough to crawl through."
You nod. "And since it's not a door or window, it won't trigger any wards. 
Glyphs are tied to entrances, not random sections of wall."
"How long?" she asks.
You study the wall. "Ten, maybe fifteen minutes of careful work. Quiet work - 
just picking away mortar and shifting stones."
THE PLAN:
Use the Duergar picks to carefully dismantle the weakened section of wall, 
creating a crawl-space into Wellfast's quarters. It will bypass all magical wards 
on the doors.
RISKS:
*        10-15 minutes of work = more time for bodies to be discovered 
elsewhere
*        Making noise during the work could alert someone
*        If Wellfast IS in his quarters, he might hear you breaking through
Do you:
*        Proceed with the wall breach (Stealth checks required)
*        Listen through the wall first to confirm the room is empty
*        Reconsider another option
What's your call?
Wal breach
Nov 30
Rolling stealth checks for the wall breach operation
 
WALL BREACH - MESSY BUT COMPLETE
You and Kessa work as quietly as possible, but it's harder than you hoped.
Phase 1: The mortar crumbles away, but one of your pick strikes sends a 
scraping sound down the corridor. You both freeze. Nothing. You continue.
Phase 2: You're pulling stones out carefully when one shifts wrong - a 
loud SCRAPE echoes in the confined space. Both of you go perfectly still, 
hearts pounding, listening.
Silence. Maybe no one heard. Maybe they did and they're coming. You can't 
tell.
After thirty tense seconds, you decide to keep going. You've come too far to 
stop now.
Phase 3: Widening the hole, dust and small debris patter to the floor louder 
than you'd like. Kessa winces with each sound, but you push through.
Finally - finally - you have an opening. About two feet wide, low to the ground. 
A tight squeeze, but passable.
"Done," Kessa whispers, wiping stone dust from her face. "But we weren't 
quiet. If anyone was nearby..."
She doesn't finish. You both know the risk.
Through the hole, your Devil's Sight reveals what's beyond:
WELLFAST'S QUARTERS - WHAT YOU SEE:
Checking if Wellfast is in his quarters
 
WELLFAST'S QUARTERS - EMPTY
You peer through the hole. The room beyond is dark, but your Devil's Sight 
cuts through it easily. It's surprisingly luxurious for a Duergar commander - a 
large bed with thick furs, weapon racks displaying quality arms, a desk piled 
with maps and documents, an ornate wardrobe.
Most importantly: empty.
No Wellfast. No guards. Just his personal chambers, unoccupied.
"He's not here," you whisper to Kessa. "We're clear."
Relief washes over her face. "Then let's move. Fast. Find that sapphire rod and 
get out before he comes back."
You crawl through the hole first, then help Kessa through. You both stand in 
Wellfast's private quarters, your hex still active and thrumming with dark 
energy, ready for trouble.
TIME TO SEARCH:
You need to find the sapphire crystal component. According to the note you 
found, it's here somewhere.
Where do you search first?
*        The desk (maps, papers, maybe a hidden compartment)
*        The wardrobe (personal effects, hidden safes)
*        Under the bed (classic hiding spot)
*        The weapon racks (might be disguised among the weapons)
*        Systematically search everything (takes longer but thorough)
Remember: You've been in the complex for a while now. Multiple bodies. 
The longer you stay, the higher the risk.
What's your approach?
Systematic search
Nov 30
Rolling systematic search of Wellfast's quarters






5e Duets/
Could you continue the search of the quarters?
Nov 30
I'll search the project knowledge for information about quarters.
Searched project for "quarters search"
4 results
I found several references to quarters in the project knowledge! Let me 
highlight the key locations:
Gates of Firestorm Peak - Area 107: Old Quarters
This appears to be ancient living quarters for the Elder Elves who worked at 
the facility. The furniture has deteriorated to dust over millennia. The most 
interesting discovery here is a memory sphere (nephelium crystal) that 
activates when held, showing a vision of three Elder Elves - likely family 
members of one of the ancient technicians who lived there.
Gates of Firestorm Peak - Area 64: Quarters of the Keeper
These are the private quarters of the "Keeper of Spiders," a Duergar 
responsible for breeding and caring for the steeder population. The Keeper 
suffers from arachnophilia (an extreme obsession with spiders) due to the 
corruption emanating from the mountain's center. The room is crawling with 
1d10+10 normal spiders plus two dozen large spiders on the ceiling. The 
Keeper can be found here 50% of the time.
Gates of Firestorm Peak - Other Quarter References
There are also mentions of:
*        Area 46: Stairs adjacent to Wellfast's quarters
*        Various secret chambers and meditation rooms connected to the 
Duergar temple
Would you like me to search for more specific information about any of these 
quarters, or help you prepare encounters for these locations?
Wellfasts quarters
Nov 30
I'll search for more specific information about Wellfast's quarters.
Searched project for "Wellfast quarters room"
1 result
Please reference the previous chat for context
Nov 30
Relevant chats
2 results
Perfect! I can see the context now. You're playing Johannes Constantinius, the 
6th level Warlock bound to a fiend, accompanied by Kessa "Keys" Darrow, and 
you've started the Gates of Firestorm Peak adventure. You're currently 
gathering information in Longbridge before heading to the mountain.
Now, looking for Wellfast's quarters - let me search for more complete 
information about his personal chambers.
Searched project for "Wellfast suite secret room treasure chest illithid"
1 result
Based on the project knowledge, here's what I found about Wellfast's 
quarters:
Wellfast's Suite
Location: Adjacent to Area 46, accessible from the Grand Promenade (Area 
31)
Key Details:
Alert System: When the magical door to Wellfast's suite is opened, he's 
immediately alerted. If there's a battle in the Grand Promenade (Area 31), he 
leaves his suite to observe and direct troops.
The Trophy/Art Room:
*        Contains hunting trophies killed by Wellfast using his gibberslug power
*        Paintings signed "Wellfast Brightblade" in dwarvish (not Duergar) 
characters - this is one of Nigel's companion's
Can you read the previous chat? I don't want access to GM info about the 
location that I shouldn't know as the PC.
Nov 30
Relevant chats
2 results
You're absolutely right - my apologies! I shouldn't be sharing DM-only 
information with you. Let me look at the previous chat to understand what we 
established.
Relevant chats
1 result
Perfect - I see where we are now! You're gathering information from Elekgong 
the hermit at the tavern in Longbridge, and you just asked "Could you 
continue the search of the quarters?" - which I interpreted as a DM resource 
search rather than what Johannes would know in-game.
Let me get back in character as your GM. You're still in the tavern with Kessa 
working her charm on Elekgong. What would you like Johannes to do or ask 
next?
No we're beyond that. Please refer to the chat titled Knowledge Base file 
access in this project.
Nov 30
Relevant chats
2 results
Let me fetch the full recent chat to see where we are in the adventure:
Relevant chats
1 result
I need to see where exactly you are in the adventure. Let me search for the 
most recent gameplay:
Relevant chats
2 results
I can see from the chat summaries that you're inside Firestorm Peak already 
and have been exploring. The phrase "Could you continue the search of the 
quarters?" - you're asking me as the DM to continue describing what Johannes 
finds when searching quarters, correct? And you want me to only share 
information Johannes would discover in-character, not DM meta-knowledge?
Where exactly are you in the dungeon right now? What room or area are you 
currently searching?
We've found a secret entrance into the Garrison commander s quarters, 
someone named Wellfast. There's a saphirre component there, and likely other 
goodies as well.
Nov 30
Ah perfect! Now I understand. You've found the secret entrance into Wellfast's 
quarters and you want to search them. Let me describe what Johannes and 
Kessa find as they explore these rooms carefully.
 
WELLFAST'S QUARTERS - THE SEARCH
You step through the secret passage into what appears to be the private 
chambers of the Duergar garrison commander. The rooms are better 
appointed than anything else you've seen in this complex - actual furniture 
rather than stone benches, personal belongings, signs of wealth and status.
Failed to runpython3 << 'EOF' import random print("SEARCHING 
WELLFAST'S QUARTERS") print("=" * 50) # Johannes 
Investigation: INT +2, Prof +3 = +5 johannes_roll = 
random.randint(1, 20) johannes_total = johannes_roll + 5 
print(f"\nJohannes Investigation: {johannes_roll} + 5 = 
{johannes_total}") # Kessa Investigation: INT +1, Prof 
+3, Expertise = +7 kessa_roll = random.randint(1, 20) 
kessa_total = kessa_roll + 7 print(f"Kessa Investigation: 
{kessa_roll} + 7 = {kessa_total}") best = 
max(johannes_total, kessa_total) print(f"\nBest result: 
{best}") print("DC 10: Find obvious items") print("DC 15: 
Find hidden compartments") print("DC 20: Find everything, 
including secret treasures") EOF </parameter> <parameter 
name="description">Rolling Investigation checks for 
searching Wellfast's quarters</parameter>
Rolling Investigation to search Wellfast's quarters
EXCELLENT SEARCH!
Kessa's expert eye and your methodical military training combine perfectly. 
You find everything.
 
THE MAIN ROOM:
The chamber is furnished with dark wood furniture - a desk, wardrobe, 
sleeping area. On the walls hang what appear to be hunting trophies, but 
something about them is deeply unsettling. The stuffed creatures look... 
wrong. Hollow.
Kessa examines one closely. "These are filled with stone dust and dirt, not 
proper taxidermy. And some of these..." She points to what are clearly stuffed 
Duergar in elaborate dress. "Those aren't trophies. Those are people he killed."
At the desk, you find:
*        A rolled scroll labeled "Demonic Defense" (a scroll of protection from 
evil and good)
*        Writing materials, maps showing the upper Duergar complex with 
garrison positions marked
*        The route deeper into the mountain labeled "The Twisted Caverns"
In the wardrobe:
*        Various cloaks, tunics, and robes (Duergar-sized, but well-made)
*        Nothing particularly valuable
Then Kessa finds the hidden compartment behind a false panel in 
the desk.
"Johannes," she whispers. "Look at this."
Inside the secret compartment:
1. A crystal rod about a foot long, appearing to be made of red 
sapphire. The moment you see it, your patron's pull surges - this is 
connected to what it wants. The rod seems to pulse with inner light.
2. A locked chest (Kessa is already working on it with her thieves' tools)
 
Kessa's lockpicks click and turn. The chest opens.
Inside you find:
3. A book titled "Quicken The Mind" written in strange raised dots - 
illithid braille. Kessa can't read it, but it radiates faint magic.
4. A concealed compartment within the chest (which Kessa finds 
immediately) containing:
*        A wand inscribed with a strange word in the same dotted script
*        A pouch with two emerald-set earrings (worth about 450 gold pieces 
each)
5. A sack containing what appears to be Wellfast's personal wealth - various 
coins and small gems
 
"Well," Kessa says, carefully examining the sapphire rod. "This is definitely 
magical. And your 'friend' is very interested in it." She can see you clutching 
your chest - the fiend's desire for this object is almost painful.
"The book and wand are illithid - mind flayer artifacts. Rare and valuable." 
She grins. "And those earrings will help fund our retirement."
What do you want to do with these items? And do you want to 
continue searching the quarters, or move on?
How long does minor illusion last?
Nov 30
Minor Illusion lasts for 1 minute (no concentration required).
It's one of the few illusion spells that doesn't require concentration, which 
makes it great for setting up distractions or cover and then moving on to cast 
other spells.
Are you thinking of using it to cover your tracks in Wellfast's quarters, or 
create a diversion?
Ok. We're out; try to cover as much as possible.
Nov 30
Smart - don't overstay your welcome in the commander's quarters.
 
COVERING YOUR TRACKS
"Right, let's not be here when he gets back," Kessa says, quickly but carefully 
returning everything to its original position - except for what you're taking.
You work together:
Johannes: You cast Minor Illusion to create an illusory cover over the 
opened secret compartment in the desk, making it appear closed and 
undisturbed. Then another to mask the disturbed lock on the chest.
Kessa: With her expertise, she repositions the desk items exactly as they 
were, closes the wardrobe, and uses a cloth to wipe away bootprints in the 
dust.
The sapphire rod, book, wand, earrings, and coins go into your 
packs.
"The illusions will last a minute each," you say. "Enough time for us to get 
clear. When Wellfast returns, he might not notice immediately - especially if 
he's not specifically checking his hidden stash."
"And when he does notice..." Kessa grins darkly. "We'll be long gone and deep 
in the complex. Let him tear this place apart looking for the thief."
You slip back through the secret passage, pulling the door closed behind you.
 
BACK IN THE SECRET CORRIDORS
The stolen items weigh heavy in your packs - especially that sapphire rod, 
which seems to pulse with warmth against your back. Your patron is... 
satisfied. For now. But you can feel it's not the only thing it wants from this 
mountain.
"So which way?" Kessa asks. "We could:
*        Head back toward those garrison barracks and try to find another route 
deeper
*        Explore more of these secret passages - there might be other routes
*        Rest here in the passages before pushing on - we're both pretty beat up"
Current Status:
*        Johannes: 26/39 HP, spell slots available
*        Kessa: 28/38 HP, spell slots available
*        You have the sapphire component (one of three needed for something)
*        Wellfast's quarters will be discovered as robbed eventually
What do you want to do?
Search the secret passage for better place for long rest.
Nov 30
Good thinking - find somewhere more secure before you rest.
 
EXPLORING THE SECRET PASSAGES
"Let's find somewhere we can actually barricade," you say. "Preferably far 
from where anyone would search when they discover the theft."
You move quietly through the narrow secret corridors, your Devil's Sight 
guiding both of you through the darkness. Kessa keeps one hand on your 
shoulder, trusting you completely.
Searching for secure long rest location
EXCELLENT DISCOVERY!
After about ten minutes of careful exploration, you find exactly what you need.
 
THE OLD STORAGE CHAMBER
The secret passage opens into a small forgotten room - clearly part of the 
original Elder Elf construction, not the Duergar additions. It's about 15 feet 
square, carved from smooth stone, and most importantly: it has only one 
entrance (the secret door you came through) and shows no signs of recent use.
"Perfect," Kessa breathes, examining the space. "Look - ancient but intact."
The room contains:
*        Stone shelves along one wall (empty except for dust)
*        The faint phosphorescent glow of the Elder Elf stonework providing dim 
light
*        A solid stone floor, level and clean
*        No other exits, no arrow slits, no murder holes
Why this is ideal:
1.        Single entrance - You can block the secret door from inside
2.        No traffic - Layers of undisturbed dust show no one has been here in 
years, maybe decades
3.        Off the main routes - Deep in the secret passage network, away from 
Wellfast's quarters
4.        Defensible - Narrow entrance means enemies can only come at you 
one at a time
"We can wedge something against that door," you say, already thinking 
tactically. "Even if they find it, they'll have to force it open - plenty of 
warning."
Kessa is already unpacking. "Eight hours of actual sleep sounds like heaven 
right about now. I'll take first watch?"
Before you rest, do you want to:
*        Set up any alarms or wards? (You could use Minor Illusion to create 
sound-based alarms, or position equipment to make noise if the door 
moves)
*        Examine any of the items you stole more closely?
*        Tend to wounds/prepare for the long rest?
*        Something else?
Set up alarm, then long rest
Nov 30
Setting up alarms and rolling for long rest encounters
 
LONG REST - THE HIDDEN CHAMBER
You and Kessa work efficiently to secure your position. Stones stacked against 
the door, metal cups positioned to clatter at the slightest movement, and your 
ongoing Minor Illusion ready to sound an alarm.
"Get some sleep," Kessa says, settling with her back to the wall, rapier across 
her lap. "I'll wake you in four hours."
You lay down, exhausted. The sapphire rod digs slightly into your back 
through the pack, and you can feel your patron's satisfaction radiating from it 
like warmth from a fire. Sleep comes quickly.
 
KESSA'S WATCH - HOURS 1-4
The half-elf sits in the dim phosphorescent glow, alert and watchful. Every 
minute or so, she hears you murmur the Minor Illusion cantrip in your sleep, 
maintaining the alarm. She smiles slightly - even unconscious, you're covering 
their backs.
The hours pass quietly. No sounds from beyond the secret door. No patrols. 
The theft hasn't been discovered yet, or if it has, they haven't tracked you here.
She gently shakes you awake. "Your turn. Nothing happening - I think we're 
good."
You take her place against the wall as she settles down to sleep.
 
JOHANNES'S WATCH - HOUR 5
You sit in the darkness that is no darkness to you, Devil's Sight making 
everything clear as day. You recast Minor Illusion every minute, creating the 
bell-chime trigger at the door.
Then, during the fifth hour of rest, you hear it.
Scritch... scritch... scritch...
Not at your door. Somewhere in the walls. Something small moving through 
cracks in the ancient stonework. You freeze, hand moving to your pack where 
your pact weapon focus waits.
The scratching moves along the wall. Gets louder. Closer.
Then you see it - a gap between two stones, barely visible. And through that 
gap, something is squeezing.
Rolling for encounter type and perception
 
THE RUST MONSTER
The creature squeezes through the crack - about the size of a large dog, with a 
bizarre insectoid body, long antennae, and a ridged, rust-colored carapace. Its 
feathery antennae twitch as it scuttles into the room.
A rust monster. And it's heading straight for your pile of equipment.
You realize with horror what it wants - metal. These things eat metal, 
corroding it to rust with a touch. Your armor, your weapons, Kessa's rapier, 
the sapphire rod-
It's only 10 feet away when you finally react.
What do you do?
Quick tactical assessment:
*        It hasn't noticed you yet (focused on the metal)
*        Kessa is asleep
*        If you attack with metal weapons, it might corrode them
*        If you wake Kessa loudly, you'll alert anyone outside
*        Your Eldritch Blast is force damage - safe
*        The room is small (15 feet square)
Options:
*        Cast Eldritch Blast (might wake Kessa, will definitely kill it)
*        Try to shoo it away quietly
*        Wake Kessa stealthily and deal with it together
*        Let it have some less important metal and hope it leaves
*        Something else?
Roll initiative if you want to act immediately, or tell me your 
approach!
HeX, then EB, and try to get kressa awake without ruining the hideout.
Nov 30
Smart - take it down fast and quiet.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
You move with practiced precision, whispering the fell words of your patron. 
Dark energy coils around the rust monster as you cast Hex, marking it for 
death.
Then you unleash Eldritch Blast.
Rolling Hex + Eldritch Blast attack on rust monster
 
THE AMBUSH
Your first blast goes wide, crackling past the creature's antennae. But the 
second beam strikes true - a lance of eldritch force punches into its carapace 
with a muted crack. The Hex energy tears at it, dark tendrils of necrotic power 
coiling around its body.
The rust monster squeals - a high, chittering sound - and whirls toward you, 
antennae twitching wildly.
Kessa's eyes snap open at the sound. She sees you, sees the creature, and you 
hold up one hand in a "stay quiet" gesture. She nods, hand already on her 
rapier - then realizes touching metal near a rust monster is a bad idea. She 
reaches for her hand crossbow instead.
RUST MONSTER'S TURN:
The creature, wounded and confused, scuttles toward the nearest source of 
metal - your pile of gear. Its antennae are outstretched, searching.
Rust monster movement and opportunity attack
DAMN!
Your opportunistic blast goes wide as the creature scuttles past with surprising 
speed. It reaches your equipment pile and its antennae make contact with 
Kessa's rapier.
Hissssss...
The metal begins to corrode, rust spreading across the blade like a disease. 
Kessa's eyes go wide with horror.
"My rapier!" she hisses.
 
ROUND 2 - YOUR TURN
The rust monster is now 10 feet away, its antennae wrapped around Kessa's 
rapidly corroding rapier. You can see the blade literally crumbling to rust.
What do you do?
Options:
*        Another Eldritch Blast (2 beams, likely to kill it but rapier might be lost)
*        Try to physically pull it away (risky - it might corrode your armor)
*        Let Kessa shoot it with her crossbow
*        Something creative?
The rapier will be completely destroyed in about 6 seconds if you 
don't act fast!
Eb
Nov 30
Eldritch Blast to save Kessa's rapier
DAMN!
Your first beam misses again - you're trying to avoid hitting the rapier itself, 
making your shots harder. The second connects, blasting a chunk out of the 
creature's carapace. It squeals and shudders but doesn't fall, its antennae still 
wrapped around the rapidly corroding blade.
Hissssss...
Half the rapier is rust now, flaking away into orange powder.
"Johannes, move!" Kessa snaps.
 
KESSA'S TURN
She raises her hand crossbow and fires point-blank at the creature's head.
Kessa's crossbow attack on rust monster
KESSA'S SHOT
Thunk!
The crossbow bolt punches through the creature's eye. It shrieks and thrashes, 
but doesn't die - still clinging to the rapier with desperate hunger.
"It won't let go!" Kessa hisses, already reloading.
The rapier is now three-quarters rust. Maybe ten more seconds before it's 
completely gone.
 
ROUND 3 - YOUR TURN
The creature is badly wounded (~5 HP left), but still feeding. One more good 
hit should do it.
What do you do?
*        Eldritch Blast again (2 more chances to finish it)
*        Rush in and physically pull it off (risk to your armor/weapons)
*        Let Kessa finish it next turn (rapier will definitely be destroyed)
EB
Nov 30
Final Eldritch Blast to kill rust monster
 
THE KILL
Your first beam misses again - cursed luck - but the second catches the rust 
monster dead center. The eldritch force and Hex energy combine, blasting 
through its weakened carapace. The creature convulses once and goes still.
But it's too late.
Even as it dies, the rapier in its grip continues to corrode. The steel blade 
flakes away like autumn leaves, crumbling to orange-brown rust powder. 
Within seconds, all that remains in Kessa's hand is the hilt - the leather grip 
and pommel intact, but the blade completely gone.
She stares at it for a long moment, then lets out a frustrated breath.
"Well. Shit."
 
AFTERMATH
The rust monster's corpse lies among the rust powder that was once Kessa's 
rapier. The room is silent except for your breathing.
Kessa examines the ruined hilt, then tosses it aside. "Had that blade for three 
years. Bought it in Waterdeep with money from my first big score." She shakes 
her head. "At least the rest of our gear is safe."
She looks at you. "Good shooting. If you'd been one second slower, it would've 
gotten to your armor or the sapphire rod."
Your gear is intact except for Kessa's rapier. The rust monster is 
dead.
"Well, there goes finishing our long rest peacefully," she mutters, sitting back 
down. "Though I suppose I should be grateful - if that thing had found us 
while we were both asleep..."
What do you want to do?
*        Try to salvage the rest of the long rest (you've had about 5 hours, need 3 
more for full benefits)
*        Give up on the rest and push forward now
*        Search the rust monster's body (they sometimes have partially-digested 
metal in their gullets)
*        Something else?
Search, then sleep
Nov 30
Searching rust monster and completing long rest
 
SEARCHING THE RUST MONSTER
"Might as well see if it ate anything valuable before it found us," you say, 
kneeling by the corpse.
Your soldier's practicality serves you well. You carefully cut open the creature's 
gullet, avoiding the still-acidic digestive fluids. Inside, you find the remains of 
its recent meals:
Loot found:
*        38 copper pieces (corroded but usable)
*        14 silver pieces (tarnished but intact)
*        A bent iron ring (the metal is worthless, but you detect a faint magical 
aura - it was once enchanted, though the enchantment is broken now)
"This thing was young," you observe, examining its size and the condition of 
its carapace. "Probably squeezed through cracks from deeper in the complex, 
feeding on old metal in abandoned rooms."
Kessa nods. "Which means there might be more. Let's hope they stick to the 
areas we're not exploring."
 
COMPLETING THE LONG REST
You clean up the mess as best you can, reset your alarms, and settle back 
down.
"I'll finish my watch," Kessa says, though she eyes the crack in the wall warily. 
"You get some sleep."
The remaining three hours pass without incident. The secret chamber remains 
quiet, your makeshift alarms undisturbed. When you finally wake, you feel 
genuinely rested for the first time since entering this mountain.
 
LONG REST COMPLETED!
JOHANNES:
*        HP fully restored: 39/39
*        All spell slots recovered
*        Hex is no longer active (concentration ended during rest)
KESSA:
*        HP fully restored: 38/38
*        All spell slots recovered
*        All Bardic Inspiration dice recovered (4d8 available)
However: Kessa no longer has her rapier. She still has her hand crossbow 
and dagger, but she's lost her primary melee weapon.
Kessa stretches, wincing at the stiffness. "Eight hours in a stone room. Luxury 
accommodations." She looks at her empty scabbard. "First priority when we 
find civilization again: new rapier. Second priority: finding whoever sent that 
rust monster my way and making them pay for it."
She grins, but you can tell losing the blade bothers her more than she's letting 
on.
You're fully rested and ready to continue exploring. What's your 
plan?
*        Continue searching these secret passages for other routes
*        Head back out and explore the main Duergar complex
*        Try to find a way deeper toward where your patron is pulling you
*        Something else?
Before we move forward, were there any weapons in Wellfasts quarters that 
could replace the rapier?
Nov 30
Good question! Let me check what you found in Wellfast's quarters.
Looking back at your search, you found:
In Wellfast's Quarters:
*        The sapphire rod (magical component)
*        Scroll of Protection from Evil and Good
*        Maps and documents
*        The illithid chest with the book, wand, and earrings
*        Cloaks, tunics, robes in the wardrobe (Duergar-sized)
*        His personal wealth (coins/gems)
The adventure mentioned there was a weapons rack, but I didn't detail what 
was on it during your search. Let me roll to see what weapons were actually 
available there that you might have noticed:
Checking what weapons were available in Wellfast's quarters
 
RECALLING WELLFAST'S ARMORY
"Wait," Kessa says, thinking back. "When we searched Wellfast's quarters, 
wasn't there a weapons rack?"
You remember now - with your thorough search, you did see it:
Weapons Available in Wellfast's Quarters:
*        Multiple Duergar-sized weapons (short swords, war picks, hammers) - 
all too small for effective human use
*        Several Duergar crossbows
*        One particularly fine dwarven heavy crossbow with decorative carvings
*        Wellfast's personal weapon - a battle axe called "Crystal Cleaver" (a +2 
battle axe made of nephelium crystal)
"The problem," you tell Kessa, "is that Duergar are what, four feet tall? Their 
'short swords' are basically daggers for us. Nothing there would work as a 
proper rapier replacement."
Kessa grimaces. "Right. Damn. I saw that crystal battle axe - beautiful piece, 
but I'm not exactly a 'swing a big axe' kind of fighter." She hefts her hand 
crossbow. "Guess I'm relying more on this until we find something better."
"We could go back and grab that fancy dwarven crossbow as a backup," you 
offer. "Or the crystal axe - might be valuable to trade."
Kessa considers. "The crossbow maybe, if we're going back that way. But going 
back to Wellfast's quarters now, after we've rested? They might have 
discovered the theft. It's been eight hours."
Do you want to:
*        Risk going back to grab the dwarven crossbow or crystal axe?
*        Continue forward and hope to find better weapons deeper in
*        Have Kessa rely on her hand crossbow and dagger for now?
Let's move ahead. No use crying over spilt milk or rusted swords.
Nov 30
MOVING FORWARD
Kessa nods approvingly. "Now you're talking sense. Besides, if we run into 
more Duergar, I'm sure one of them will be carrying something I can liberate." 
She pats her hand crossbow. "This got me through plenty of tight spots before 
I had that rapier anyway."
She checks her gear one more time - crossbow loaded, bolts accessible, thieves' 
tools secure, the stolen treasures packed carefully. "Ready when you are."
You feel the pull from your patron - stronger now after the rest, more 
insistent. It's drawing you deeper into the mountain, away from the Duergar 
upper complex and toward... something below. The sapphire rod in your pack 
pulses with warmth.
 
LEAVING THE HIDDEN CHAMBER
You carefully dismantle your alarm system and listen at the secret door. 
Nothing. The passages beyond remain silent.
"Which way?" Kessa whispers.
You have a few options:
1. Follow the secret passages deeper - They seem to wind through the 
complex, bypassing main corridors. Safer but slower.
2. Exit back into the Duergar areas - Faster route, but risk of 
encountering patrols. Your theft might have been discovered by now.
3. Follow your patron's pull - Let the fiend's hunger guide you toward 
what it wants. Most direct but unknown dangers.
4. Look for a route to "The Twisted Caverns" - You saw that marked on 
Wellfast's map as the route to the inner mountain.
What's your choice?
Look for a route. The fiend isn't invested in my well being.
Nov 30
SMART THINKING
"Good call," Kessa agrees quietly. "That thing in your chest wants its prize, but 
it doesn't care if you're alive or dead when it gets it. Let's use our heads, not 
follow the demon's leash."
You pull out the map you copied from Wellfast's desk during your search, 
studying it by the faint phosphorescent glow of the Elder Elf stonework.
Interpreting the map to find route to Twisted Caverns
 
KESSA'S EXPERTISE
"Here," Kessa says, taking the map and orienting it against your current 
position. Her finger traces the passages with practiced ease - years of casing 
noble estates and planning heists paying off.
"See these red markers? Garrison points - six or more Duergar at each. We 
want to avoid these." She traces a route with her finger. "But look - there's a 
service corridor here that runs parallel to the main route. Probably used by 
miners or maintenance crews. Less traffic."
You lean in, following her logic.
"We're currently here," she taps a spot, "in the secret passages adjacent to the 
barracks level. The Twisted Caverns entrance is... here." She points to the 
eastern edge of the map. "Wellfast labeled it specifically - apparently that's 
where the route gets really dangerous."
She traces the safest path:
THE ROUTE:
1.        Exit secret passages into minor corridor (5 minutes)
2.        Cross through old storage areas (20 minutes) - marked as "rarely 
used" on the map
3.        Navigate past the Duergar marketplace (30 minutes) - risky but 
necessary, use stealth
4.        Follow eastern maintenance tunnels (45 minutes) - should be 
clear
5.        Reach checkpoint before Twisted Caverns (final 30 minutes) - 
likely guarded
"Total travel time: about 2-3 hours if we're careful," Kessa concludes. "The 
checkpoint at the end is our biggest problem - it's marked as 'Last Defense' on 
this map. They'll have guards there for sure."
She looks at you. "But once we're past that, we're into the Twisted Caverns and 
beyond Duergar territory. Whatever's down there, Wellfast apparently doesn't 
control it."
Your plan:
*        Take the safer route Kessa mapped out
*        2-3 hours of careful travel
*        Final checkpoint will require dealing with guards somehow
Ready to move out? Or do you want to prepare anything first?
Give Kressa my short sword, then head out
Nov 30
ARMING KESSA
"Here," you say, unbuckling your mundane shortsword and handing it to her. 
"Not a rapier, but better than just a dagger."
Kessa takes it, testing the weight and balance. "Heavier than I'm used to, and 
the balance is all wrong for finesse work, but..." She makes a few practice 
thrusts. "Yeah, this'll do. Thanks, Johannes."
She straps it to her belt opposite her dagger. Between the shortsword, dagger, 
and hand crossbow, she's armed again - not ideal, but functional.
"Alright," she says, checking her gear one last time. "Let's get moving before 
someone comes looking for Wellfast's stolen goods."