HEADING OUT
You move through the secret passage, following Kessa's mapped route. Your 
Devil's Sight guides you both through the darkness until you reach a concealed 
door that should open into the minor corridor.
Stealth check exiting secret passages
 
INTO THE MINOR CORRIDOR
You ease the secret door open slowly, listening. Silence. The corridor beyond is 
empty - a narrow service passage lit by the same faint phosphorescent glow as 
the rest of the Elder Elf construction.
You both slip out quietly, and Kessa carefully closes the secret door behind 
you. It blends seamlessly back into the wall.
"So far so good," she whispers. "Storage areas are this way."
 
PHASE 1: OLD STORAGE AREAS (20 minutes)
You move through a series of connected chambers that once served as supply 
rooms for the Elder Elves. Most are now empty or filled with broken Duergar 
mining equipment - carts with broken wheels, worn pickaxes, barrels of 
spoiled provisions.
The phosphorescent glow is dimmer here, and dust lies thick on everything. 
Clearly these areas see little use.
Navigating through storage areas
 
CLEAR PASSAGE
Twenty minutes of careful movement through the abandoned storage areas. 
Kessa's sharp eyes spot safe paths around debris, and you both move in 
silence. The rooms smell of dust, old stone, and the faint metallic tang of 
Duergar industry.
No patrols. No encounters. The route is as safe as Kessa predicted.
"Next section is trickier," she whispers as you approach the edge of the storage 
area. "The marketplace. We'll need to skirt around it - can't go through the 
main bazaar, but there are side passages we can use."
 
PHASE 2: DUERGAR MARKETPLACE (30 minutes)
Ahead, you hear the distant sounds of activity - voices speaking in the harsh 
Duergar tongue, the clatter of metal on stone, the general bustle of commerce.
"Stay low, stay quiet," Kessa breathes. "Follow me."
How do you want to approach this section?
*        Stealth heavily - Move very slowly and carefully (takes longer, safer)
*        Quick and quiet - Normal stealth, trust Kessa's route (balanced risk)
*        Use magic - Cast something to help (Invisibility? Minor Illusion for 
distraction?)
*        Another approach?
Heavy stealth!
Nov 30
HEAVY STEALTH APPROACH
"Let's not take chances," you whisper. "Slow and careful."
Kessa nods approvingly. "Smart. We've got time, and getting spotted here 
would be bad. The marketplace connects to multiple garrison points - if we're 
seen, reinforcements arrive fast."
You both settle into a patient, methodical approach. Every step is carefully 
placed, every shadow used for cover, every sound from the marketplace 
monitored before moving.
Heavy stealth check bypassing marketplace
 
PERFECT EXECUTION
For thirty tense minutes, you and Kessa move like ghosts through the side 
passages skirting the Duergar marketplace.
You catch glimpses of the bazaar through doorways and gaps - a large open 
chamber filled with merchant stalls, Duergar haggling over goods, the smell of 
mushroom-based foods, the gleam of nephelium-crafted items catching the 
phosphorescent light. But you never enter the main floor.
Instead, Kessa guides you through maintenance corridors, old access tunnels, 
and forgotten side rooms. Your military discipline and her burglar's instincts 
combine perfectly - you anticipate patrol patterns, she finds the shadows to 
hide in.
At one point, a Duergar guard walks within five feet of your hiding spot, 
grumbling about his shift. You both freeze, barely breathing. He passes 
without a glance.
Finally, you emerge from the network of passages on the far side of the 
marketplace, well beyond the commercial district.
"Beautiful work," Kessa whispers with genuine admiration. "You move quiet 
for a soldier."
"You find paths where there aren't any," you reply. "We make a good team."
She grins. "Don't we though?"
 
PHASE 3: EASTERN MAINTENANCE TUNNELS (45 minutes)
The route ahead is clearer now - long, relatively straight tunnels that once 
served the Elder Elves' maintenance needs. The Duergar use them 
occasionally but they're far from the main traffic areas.
"Homestretch before the checkpoint," Kessa says, checking the map. "These 
tunnels should be mostly clear. Then we hit the 'Last Defense' and things get 
interesting."
Continue forward? Or do you want to:
*        Take a short rest before the checkpoint (1 hour)
*        Scout ahead carefully first
*        Just push through to the checkpoint
*        Something else?
Scout ahead
Nov 30
SCOUTING AHEAD
"Let's not walk blind into their 'Last Defense,'" you say. "I'll scout ahead once 
we get close."
"Good call," Kessa agrees. "With your Devil's Sight, you can see in total 
darkness. I'll hang back and cover the retreat if things go south."
You move carefully through the eastern maintenance tunnels - long, straight 
passages carved by Elder Elf precision. The phosphorescent glow is dimmer 
here, fading to near-darkness in places.
After about forty minutes of cautious travel, Kessa holds up a hand. She points 
ahead where the tunnel curves slightly.
"According to the map, the checkpoint should be just around that bend," she 
whispers. "Maybe sixty feet ahead."
You nod and move forward alone, keeping to the shadows.
Scouting the checkpoint ahead
 
THE CHECKPOINT - SPOTTED
You creep forward, using your Devil's Sight to peer around the curve in the 
tunnel. What you see makes you curse silently.
THE "LAST DEFENSE" CHECKPOINT:
The tunnel opens into a wider corridor - about 20 feet across. A crude stone 
wall has been built across most of it, about 10 feet tall with sharpened spikes 
along the top. There's a reinforced door in the center.
Guards: You count 4 Duergar warriors in position:
*        2 standing guard at the door itself
*        2 more positioned on a ledge above the wall (crossbows ready)
Defenses:
*        The wall provides them cover
*        Murder holes in the ceiling suggest more can rain down attacks
*        A lever visible near the guards - probably triggers some kind of trap in 
the corridor approach
The Problem: One of the guards on the ledge is scanning the tunnel with 
obvious alertness. As you watch, his eyes narrow and he points in your 
direction.
"Khar gund!" he barks in Duergar. Something's there!
The other guards tense, raising weapons. They can't see you clearly in the 
darkness, but they know something moved.
 
You quickly retreat back around the corner to where Kessa waits.
"They spotted movement," you whisper urgently. "Four guards - two at a door, 
two above with crossbows. They're alert now but don't have a clear target yet."
Kessa's mind races. "Options?"
TACTICAL SITUATION:
*        4 Duergar guards, now on alert
*        Fortified position with cover
*        You have maybe 30 seconds before they investigate or raise full alarm
What do you do?
*        Talk your way through - Try to bluff/negotiate (risky with Duergar)
*        Ambush them - They're coming to investigate, hit them in the tunnel
*        Retreat and find another route - Avoid this checkpoint entirely
*        Magic solution - Use spells creatively to bypass or defeat them
*        Something else?
What spells do we have to play with?
Nov 30
Listing available spells and tactical options
 
SPELL OPTIONS
You quickly review your magical resources with Kessa:
STEALTH/BYPASS OPTIONS:
*        Invisibility (you or Kessa) - One person turns invisible for 1 hour, 
could sneak past
*        Major Image (Kessa, 3rd level) - Create very convincing distraction 
elsewhere
*        Misty Step (you, 2nd level) - Teleport 30 feet, but only gets you past, 
not Kessa
CROWD CONTROL OPTIONS:
*        Hypnotic Pattern (Kessa, 3rd level) - Charm up to 6 creatures in 30-
foot cube (all 4 guards if positioned right!)
*        Hold Person (Kessa, 2nd level) - Paralyze 1 humanoid (can upcast for 
2)
*        Tasha's Hideous Laughter (Kessa, 1st level) - Incapacitate 1 guard
*        Suggestion (Kessa, 2nd level) - Make one guard follow a command
COMBAT SUPPORT:
*        Hex (you) + Eldritch Blast - Heavy damage output
*        Mirror Image (you) - Make yourself hard to hit
*        Armor of Agathys (you) - Temp HP + damage retaliation
CREATIVE IDEAS:
1.        Hypnotic Pattern all 4 - If Kessa can catch them in the area of effect, 
all 4 must save or be charmed and incapacitated. Clean, quiet solution if 
it works.
2.        Major Image distraction - Create illusion of cave-in, fire, or Wellfast 
appearing from another direction. While they investigate, slip past.
3.        Double Invisibility - Both cast Invisibility, sneak past while invisible.
4.        Hold Person + Rush - Paralyze the crossbow guards, rush past the 
melee guards
"What's your play?" Kessa whispers, hearing footsteps approaching from the 
checkpoint.
What do you want to do?
Double invisibility
Nov 30
DOUBLE INVISIBILITY - SMART CHOICE
"We go invisible, both of us," you whisper. "Slip right past them while they're 
looking for whatever moved."
Kessa grins. "I like it. Simple, clean, conserves our energy for whatever's past 
that checkpoint."
You hear the guards getting closer - heavy boots on stone, the clink of armor 
and weapons. Maybe twenty seconds before they round the corner.
"You first," Kessa says, already weaving the spell with practiced fingers. She 
touches your shoulder and whispers the incantation.
Casting double invisibility and sneaking past guards
 
VANISHING ACT
Kessa's fingers trace arcane patterns in the air and she touches your shoulder. 
You feel the magic wash over you - a strange sensation like being wrapped in 
cool silk. When you look down, your body has completely vanished.
You immediately return the favor, casting Invisibility on her. She fades from 
view mid-grin.
"Perfect timing," her disembodied voice whispers.
 
PAST THE GUARDS
Two Duergar guards round the corner, weapons ready, scanning for intruders. 
You and Kessa press against opposite walls, holding your breath.
The guards stop right where you were standing moments ago.
"Noth gal?" one mutters. See anything?
"Nai. Probably rats," the other replies, kicking at the ground. "This whole 
sector is falling apart."
They peer into the darkness for another moment, then turn back toward the 
checkpoint, grumbling about false alarms.
You and Kessa wait until they're well ahead, then follow silently. Your Devil's 
Sight lets you see Kessa's invisible form as a faint shimmer - a side effect of the 
magical vision - so you can coordinate movements.
The guards return to the checkpoint and report to their companions. 
"Nothing. Just shadows."
The four Duergar settle back into their positions - two at the door, two above 
with crossbows - still alert but no longer actively searching.
You and Kessa creep forward, invisible and silent. Past the guards. Past the 
fortified wall. Through the reinforced door which one of the guards has left 
slightly ajar.
And then you're through.
 
BEYOND THE LAST DEFENSE
The corridor continues east, but the atmosphere changes immediately. The air 
grows colder, damper. The phosphorescent Elder Elf stonework gives way to 
natural cave formations. You've left the Duergar-controlled areas.
Ahead, the tunnel slopes downward into darkness.
A crude sign in Duergar script is mounted on the wall: "THE TWISTED 
CAVERNS - ENTER AT YOUR OWN RISK"
Kessa's invisible hand finds yours. "We did it," she whispers. "We're past the 
Duergar."
Your patron's pull intensifies, dragging you forward like a hook in your chest. 
Whatever it wants is down there in those caverns.
You're still invisible for approximately 59 more minutes.
What do you do?
*        Continue immediately while invisible
*        Wait here and rest before descending (invisibility will fade)
*        Scout ahead while invisible, then decide
*        Something else?
Continue immediately.
Nov 30
INTO THE TWISTED CAVERNS
"Let's use this invisibility while we have it," you whisper. "Whatever's down 
there, I'd rather meet it while we can't be seen."
"Agreed," Kessa's disembodied voice replies. "Lead the way. Your Devil's Sight 
is better than anything I've got right now."
You descend into the darkness.
 
THE DESCENT
The worked stone of the Elder Elf construction ends abruptly, giving way to 
natural cave formations. Stalactites hang from the ceiling like stone teeth. The 
air grows noticeably colder and carries strange scents - sulfur, decay, and 
something else. Something wrong.
Your patron's pull is almost painful now, a constant pressure urging you 
deeper.
Exploring the Twisted Caverns while invisible
 
CREATURE AHEAD
You've descended about 350 feet into the caverns when you spot it.
The tunnel opens into a larger chamber - maybe 60 feet across. 
Bioluminescent fungi cast an eerie blue-green glow across the space. And in 
the center of the chamber, something moves.
At first, you think it's a cluster of snakes. Then you realize it's worse.
A mass of tentacles - eyeless, pale, writhing together in a nauseating tangle. 
Each tentacle is about 6 feet long, covered in suckers and hook-like barbs. The 
creature seems to be feeding on something - the remains of what might have 
been a Duergar, now just bones and scraps of armor.
You've read about these in your military briefings on aberrations. A Grick. Or 
possibly multiple gricks in a nest.
Your patron's pull doesn't lead through this chamber - it actually curves 
around to the left where you can see another tunnel entrance. 
You could bypass this entirely if you're careful.
But as you watch, you notice something gleaming among the bones. Metal. 
Possibly weapons or treasure from previous victims.
Analyzing the grick encounter and loot
 
THE SLEEPING GRICK
You study the situation carefully. Just one grick, and it appears to be in some 
kind of torpor - its tentacles barely moving, coiled around its worm-like body. 
The creature has fed recently and entered a digestive sleep.
Among the bones and debris, you can make out:
*        A longsword (looks intact)
*        Pieces of chainmail armor
*        What might be a coin pouch
*        A few other metal objects, hard to identify from this distance
The bypass route curves left around the chamber - you could easily sneak past 
while invisible. The grick seems completely unaware.
Kessa's invisible hand squeezes yours. She can't see as well as you in the 
darkness, but she's following your lead.
Your options:
1.        Bypass completely - Sneak past while invisible (DC 10, very likely 
success)
2.        Kill it while it sleeps - Attack from invisibility, auto-crit on first hit
3.        Grab loot and run - Try to snatch items without waking it (risky)
4.        Something else?
Consider:
*        You're invisible (~45 minutes left)
*        Kessa still needs a proper weapon (has your shortsword but it's not ideal 
for her)
*        Combat might attract other creatures
*        Your patron is pulling you forward, not toward this chamber
What do you do?
Attack. Hex, EB
Nov 30
STRIKE FROM THE SHADOWS
"There's a sleeping grick," you whisper to Kessa. "One creature, torpid. I can 
drop it before it wakes."
"You sure?" Her invisible hand tightens on yours. "We could just slip past..."
"You need a better weapon. And I'm not leaving an aberration at our backs." 
Your voice is cold, practical. Years of hunting monsters for your patron have 
made this calculation second nature.
"Alright. I'll cover you with the crossbow in case it doesn't go down clean."
You release her hand and move into position, calling upon your patron's dark 
power.
Attacking sleeping grick with Hex and Eldritch Blast
 
BRUTAL EFFICIENCY
You whisper the words of Hex, marking the sleeping creature for death. Dark 
energy coils around it like chains. Then you unleash both beams of Eldritch 
Blast.
CRACK-CRACK!
The first beam punches through the grick's body with devastating force, the 
Hex magnifying the damage. The creature's body convulses-
The second beam hits before it can even register pain, blowing a massive hole 
through its center mass.
The grick's tentacles twitch once, twice, then go still. It never woke up. Never 
even knew it was under attack.
Your invisibility fades as the spell breaks, revealing you standing over the 
corpse, wisps of eldritch energy still crackling around your hands.
"Damn," Kessa's voice says from behind you - still invisible. "Remind me never 
to fall asleep around you."
"Only works on things I'm trying to kill," you reply, already moving toward the 
loot pile.
 
THE SPOILS
You search through the remains of the grick's victims. The creature has been 
here for some time, feeding on whoever was unlucky enough to pass through.
Searching the grick's lair for treasure
 
THE HAUL
Your thorough search turns up:
Found:
*        Standard longsword (good condition)
*        Partial chainmail set (too damaged for immediate use, but could be 
repaired)
*        30 copper, 14 silver, 12 gold pieces
*        1 healing potion (small vial, still sealed)
No rapier unfortunately. Kessa - still invisible - makes a disappointed sound 
when you tell her.
"Well, at least we got a healing potion," her voice says. "And coin never hurts. 
I'll stick with your shortsword for now."
You pocket the items and examine the chamber more carefully. The tunnel 
your patron is pulling you toward continues ahead, descending deeper. The 
bioluminescent fungi provide an eerie blue-green light that makes everything 
look alien and wrong.
The Hex on the grick's corpse still lingers - you have the spell active for 
another 59 minutes if you need to transfer it to another target.
Status Update:
*        Johannes: Visible (invisibility broken), Hex active (59 min remaining)
*        Kessa: Still invisible (~42 minutes remaining)
*        Spell slots used: Johannes (1x 2nd level), Kessa (1x 2nd level)
*        New items: longsword, healing potion, coins
"Ready to keep moving?" Kessa asks. "Or do you want to rest here and let my 
invisibility run out?"
What do you do?
*        Continue deeper while Kessa is still invisible
*        Rest here for a short rest (1 hour, Kessa loses invisibility)
*        Something else?
Continue forward.
Nov 30
DEEPER INTO THE TWISTED CAVERNS
"Let's keep moving while you're still invisible," you say. "I'd rather have that 
advantage for as long as possible."
"Agreed. Lead on."
You descend deeper into the caverns, following the relentless pull of your 
patron. The tunnel slopes downward at a steady angle, the temperature 
dropping with each step. The bioluminescent fungi become more prevalent, 
casting their eerie glow across increasingly strange rock formations.
Continuing descent into the Twisted Caverns
 
KESSA'S WARNING
You're about 360 feet deeper into the caverns when Kessa's invisible hand 
grabs your arm, stopping you mid-step.
"Johannes, stop," she hisses. "Don't move forward."
You freeze. "What do you see?"
"The air ahead... it's wrong. Look carefully."
You peer into the darkness with your Devil's Sight. At first you see nothing 
unusual - just more tunnel, more fungi. Then Kessa picks up a small stone and 
tosses it forward about twenty feet.
The stone enters an area of the tunnel and suddenly stops in mid-air. Not 
falling. Not moving. Just... frozen.
"What in the hells?" you breathe.
"Some kind of spatial distortion," Kessa's voice comes from beside you, 
impressed despite the danger. "The air is shimmering if you look close enough. 
It's like looking through warped glass."
She's right. Now that you're focusing, you can see it - a section of the tunnel 
about 30 feet long where space itself seems twisted, bent. The rock formations 
on the far side look stretched and distorted.
"This is what the Elder Elves were messing with," you realize. "Opening gates 
to other realms. The dimensional fabric here is damaged."
The suspended stone begins to slowly dissolve, reality eating away at it like 
acid.
THE SPATIAL ANOMALY:
*        Blocks the direct path forward
*        Approximately 30 feet long
*        Objects entering it become frozen in space
*        They slowly disintegrate over time
*        Your patron's pull leads through this area
You scan the chamber with your Devil's Sight. There appear to be two options:
Option 1: A narrow ledge along the left wall - about 2 feet wide, bypasses the 
anomaly. Requires careful movement. (DC 12 Acrobatics/Athletics)
Option 2: A crack in the ceiling that might connect to a passage above the 
anomaly. Would need to climb. (DC 14 Athletics)
Option 3: Try something magical to deal with the anomaly itself.
Kessa is still invisible (~24 minutes remaining). You have Hex active (~41 
minutes remaining).
What do you do?
Try the ridge...
Nov 30
THE NARROW LEDGE
"We take the ledge," you say, examining the narrow strip of rock along the left 
wall. "Two feet wide - tight, but manageable."
"I'll go first while I'm still invisible," Kessa offers. "If I fall into that thing, at 
least you'll know not to follow."
"Comforting thought."
"I'm a professional. I've crossed narrower ledges robbing noble estates." Her 
confidence is reassuring.
You hear her move past you, boots scraping carefully on stone. The ledge runs 
along the wall for about 30 feet, paralleling the spatial anomaly.
Crossing the narrow ledge past the spatial anomaly
 
PERFECT CROSSING
Kessa moves along the ledge with practiced grace, her invisible form betrayed 
only by the faint sound of her boots on stone. She's done this a thousand times 
- creeping along rooftops, balancing on window ledges, escaping through 
narrow passages.
"Clear," her voice calls from the far side. "Your turn."
You press your back against the wall and sidestep along the ledge. The spatial 
anomaly shimmers and warps just feet away from you - close enough that you 
can feel the wrongness of it, like static electricity crawling across your skin.
Your soldier's training serves you well. Steady movements, controlled 
breathing, focus on the next step. The ledge is solid beneath your boots.
Thirty feet later, you step off onto safe ground.
"Nice work," Kessa says. You can't see her, but you can hear the smile in her 
voice. "For a moment there, I thought the big armored warlock was going to 
have more trouble than the nimble thief."
"Never doubt military training," you reply, brushing stone dust from your 
armor.
 
BEYOND THE ANOMALY
The tunnel continues downward. The pull from your patron intensifies - you're 
getting closer to whatever it wants. The sapphire rod in your pack thrums with 
warmth.
The cavern walls here show signs of more spatial distortions - reality seems 
thin, unstable. You pass patches where the rock formations twist in impossible 
geometries, where shadows fall in directions that defy the light sources.
"This place is seriously messed up," Kessa mutters. "How much deeper does 
this go?"
As if in answer, the tunnel ahead opens into what sounds like a much larger 
space. You hear... something. A rhythmic sound. Almost like breathing, but 
too slow, too deep.
And there's light ahead - not the blue-green of the fungi, but a pulsing red 
glow.
Status:
*        Kessa still invisible (~20 minutes remaining)
*        Johannes visible, Hex active (~37 minutes remaining)
*        You're approaching a large chamber with an unknown light source
*        Something is making a breathing sound
What do you do?
*        Scout ahead carefully
*        Wait for Kessa's invisibility to expire and discuss strategy
*        Push forward immediately
*        Something else?
Investigation check for the breathing
Nov 30
INVESTIGATING THE SOUND
You hold up a hand, stopping both of you. That rhythmic sound - it's too 
regular to be wind, too organic to be machinery. You focus, using your training 
to analyze it.
Investigating the breathing sounds and red light
 
KESSA'S EXPERT EAR
You listen, trying to make sense of the sound, but it's Kessa who provides the 
real intelligence. Her invisible presence moves closer to the chamber entrance.
"Johannes," she whispers, barely audible. "I count at least three separate 
breathing patterns. Maybe more - the acoustics are weird in there."
She pauses, listening intently.
"Whatever they are, they're big. I'd say Large or Huge creatures based on lung 
capacity. And the rhythm..." Another pause. "They're sleeping. Deep, regular 
breathing. Torpid or hibernating."
"How close?" you ask.
"One is near the entrance - maybe thirty feet in. The others are deeper in the 
chamber. I'd estimate the space is about 80 to 100 feet across."
Your military training takes over, processing the tactical information. Multiple 
large creatures, sleeping, in a chamber your patron is pulling you toward.
The red pulsing light continues, throbbing in time with the breathing. You try 
to identify the magic involved, but it's beyond your knowledge - something 
alien, something wrong.
"That light..." Kessa whispers. "It's synchronized with their breathing. Every 
pulse matches an inhale-exhale cycle."
"Could be feeding on them," you suggest. "Or they could be part of some 
ritual."
"Either way, we need to get through that chamber. Your demon friend is 
pulling you that direction, right?"
You feel the insistent tug. Yes. Whatever your patron wants lies beyond this 
chamber of sleeping giants.
Options:
1.        Sneak through while they sleep - Kessa is still invisible (~18 min), 
creatures seem torpid
2.        Scout the chamber first - Peek in, get visual confirmation before 
committing
3.        Wait here - Let Kessa's invisibility run out, discuss full strategy
4.        Try to bypass - Look for another route around the chamber
5.        Something else?
What do you do?
Scout
Nov 30
Have kressa Scout
Nov 30
KESSA SCOUTS AHEAD
"You're still invisible," you say quietly. "Scout the chamber. I'll wait here and 
cover you if something goes wrong."
"Smart," Kessa's voice agrees. "If they wake up and spot me, I'll retreat back 
here. Don't engage unless I call for help."
"Be careful."
"Always am." You hear the grin in her voice.
Her invisible footsteps move away, incredibly light and careful. You press 
yourself against the wall near the tunnel entrance, ready to provide covering 
fire if needed.
Kessa scouts the chamber with sleeping creatures
 
PERFECT RECONNAISSANCE
You wait in tense silence for what feels like an eternity but is actually only 
about three minutes. Then Kessa's invisible hand touches your shoulder, 
making you jump slightly.
"Easy," she whispers. "It's me. I'm back."
"What did you see?"
Her voice is quiet but clear as she delivers her report:
"Three creatures. They're... gods, Johannes, they're gibberlings. You know 
what those are?"
You do. Aberrations from the Far Realm. Mindless, vicious, but these sound 
different.
"They're huge - about 12 feet tall each, bloated and swollen. They're sleeping in 
these... cocoons? Nests? Made of some kind of organic webbing. The red light 
is coming from crystals embedded in the floor - looks like Elder Elf work, but 
corrupted. The light pulses every time they breathe."
She pauses.
"Here's the layout:
The Chamber:
*        Roughly circular, about 90 feet across
*        The first gibberling is 30 feet from the entrance, on the right side
*        The second is 50 feet in, center of the room
*        The third is 70 feet in, left side
*        All three are in deep torpor - barely moving
The Path:
*        There's a clear route along the left wall that bypasses all three at safe 
distance
*        About 60 feet of careful movement
*        The exit tunnel is on the far side, slightly elevated
The Red Crystals:
*        Six of them arranged in a circle around the gibberlings
*        Pulsing in rhythm with their breathing
*        I don't know what they do, but they're definitely magical
*        They seem to be... sustaining the creatures? Or feeding off them?
The Good News: They're so deep in torpor they barely reacted even when I 
got close. I could probably tap-dance through there and they wouldn't notice."
You process this information. Your patron's pull leads straight through that 
chamber to the far exit.
"Anything else?" you ask.
"Yeah. Past them, I could see the exit tunnel. There's more red light down 
there. And I felt... pressure. Like something powerful is ahead. That's where 
your patron wants you to go."
Kessa's invisibility: ~15 minutes remaining
Your options:
1.        Sneak through now - While Kessa is invisible, follow the safe route 
she mapped
2.        Wait and plan - Let invisibility expire, discuss full strategy
3.        Try to disable the crystals - Might wake the creatures, might stop 
whatever is happening
4.        Attack the sleeping gibberlings - Eliminate threats before 
proceeding
5.        Something else?
What do you do?
Nature check about how dangerous gibberlings are?
Nov 30
ASSESSING THE THREAT
"Hold on," you say. "Gibberlings. Let me think about what I know."
You dig through your military training - briefings on aberrations, creatures 
from beyond the normal world.
Knowledge check about gibberlings and tactical assessment
 
TACTICAL ANALYSIS
"Normal gibberlings are small," you tell Kessa quietly. "Maybe three feet tall, 
travel in huge swarms. Mindless, ravenous - they attack anything that moves. 
Weak individually, deadly in numbers."
"These are twelve feet tall," Kessa points out.
"Exactly. These have been... changed. Mutated. Those crystals are doing 
something to them - keeping them in stasis, maybe feeding them energy from 
the Far Realm." You shake your head. "I don't know what they're capable of, 
but if they're proportionally stronger than normal gibberlings..."
"Three of them versus two of us in a confined space," Kessa finishes. "Bad 
odds."
"Very bad. Normal gibberlings are weak to light, but these?" You gesture 
toward the pulsing red glow. "They're bathed in magical light and it's not 
hurting them. They've adapted. Or been adapted."
You run the tactical scenario in your head:
IF COMBAT OCCURS:
*        3 large aberrations with unknown abilities
*        They act together (mindless swarm mentality)
*        6 attacks per round minimum vs your 2
*        No room to retreat easily
*        Your spell slots are limited (you've used one 2nd level)
*        Kessa has no rapier (using your shortsword suboptimally)
"We avoid them," you decide. "Use your scouting intel, take the safe route, 
don't wake them up."
"Agreed," Kessa says immediately. "I didn't survive this long by picking fights I 
don't have to win."
"How confident are you in that left-wall route?"
"Very. They're deep in torpor. As long as we're quiet and don't touch the 
crystals, we should be fine."
THE PLAN:
*        Follow Kessa's mapped safe route along the left wall
*        Move quietly past the sleeping gibberlings
*        Don't disturb the red crystals
*        Reach the far exit
Kessa's invisibility: ~13 minutes remaining
Ready to execute? Or do you want to do anything else first?
Execute
Nov 30
Execute, meaning following Kressa, not attacking.
Nov 30
EXECUTING THE STEALTH BYPASS
"Let's do this," you say quietly. "You lead, I'll follow exactly in your footsteps. 
Stay invisible as long as you can."
"Right. Keep three paces behind me, move when I move, stop when I stop. If 
something goes wrong, we sprint for the far exit - don't look back."
"Understood."
Kessa's invisible hand squeezes your shoulder once for luck, then releases. You 
hear her footsteps move toward the chamber entrance.
You take a deep breath, steady your nerves, and follow.
Stealth check to sneak past the sleeping gibberlings
 
HOLDING YOUR BREATH
You enter the chamber, and the sight stops you for a heartbeat.
The three gibberlings are massive - bloated, twisted forms wrapped in organic 
webbing that pulses with the same rhythm as their breathing. Their skin is 
translucent, showing veins of sickly luminescence beneath. They look like 
they're being simultaneously sustained and consumed by whatever magic fills 
this place.
The red crystals embedded in the floor pulse with each breath. The light 
washes over everything in waves of crimson.
You follow Kessa's invisible footsteps along the left wall, placing each boot 
carefully, controlling your breathing. Your armor clinks slightly - too loud in 
this quiet chamber.
The nearest gibberling, thirty feet to your right, shifts slightly in its cocoon. 
One massive arm twitches.
You freeze.
It settles back into stillness.
You continue, slower now, even more careful. Sweat beads on your forehead 
despite the cold. Your patron's pull is almost unbearable now - it wants you to 
move faster, to get to whatever lies beyond, but you force yourself to stay 
controlled.
Fifty feet. Sixty feet.
The far exit tunnel comes into view - an opening in the wall, elevated slightly, 
with more of that pulsing red light emanating from beyond.
Almost there.
Your boot scrapes on loose stone - just barely, but in this silent chamber it 
sounds like a thunderclap. All three gibberlings shift in their cocoons.
You don't breathe. Don't move.
The creatures settle again, their breathing returning to that deep, regular 
rhythm.
Then you're past them. At the exit. Kessa's invisible hand grabs yours and 
pulls you into the tunnel.
 
BEYOND THE GIBBERLINGS
You're through. The tunnel curves upward slightly, and the breathing sounds 
fade behind you. The red pulsing light ahead grows brighter.
"Too close," Kessa whispers once you're safely away. "Your armor almost woke 
them."
"Sorry. Not built for stealth." Your heart is still pounding.
"We made it. That's what counts."
The tunnel ahead is short - maybe fifty feet - and ends in what looks like a 
doorway. The red light pulses from beyond it in steady, hypnotic rhythm. Your 
patron's pull is focused there with laser intensity.
This is it. Whatever your patron wants is through that door.
Status:
*        Kessa still invisible (~11 minutes)
*        Both at full HP
*        Johannes: 1 spell slot used (2nd level)
*        Kessa: 1 spell slot used (2nd level)
*        Hex still active (~30 minutes remaining)
What do you do?
*        Approach the doorway cautiously
*        Have Kessa scout ahead invisibly one more time
*        Prepare spells/buffs before proceeding
*        Something else?
Blade ward on me, kressa scouts
Nov 30
PREPARATION AND SCOUTING
"Hold up," you say, stopping before the doorway. "One more scout while 
you're still invisible. And I'm going to prepare for whatever's beyond that 
door."
"Smart. Your patron's pulling you toward something - probably not friendly." 
Kessa's voice is tense. "I'll take a quick look."
You begin casting Blade Ward on yourself while she moves ahead.
Johannes casts Blade Ward, Kessa scouts the final chamber
 
KESSA'S REPORT
You feel the protective magic of Blade Ward settle over you like invisible 
armor as Kessa's footsteps fade toward the doorway. The spell will fade 
quickly - you'll need to maintain it when combat starts - but it's ready.
A minute passes. Then Kessa returns, her invisible hand finding yours.
"Johannes," she whispers, voice tight. "This is it. This is what your patron 
wants."
"Describe it."
She takes a breath, organizing her thoughts like the professional she is:
"The Chamber:
*        About 60 feet across, circular
*        High ceiling, maybe 40 feet up
*        Elder Elf construction, but corrupted - the walls are bleeding that red 
light
*        The floor has three concentric circles of runes, all glowing
The Gate:
*        Center of the room, suspended in mid-air
*        It's the Vast Gate - has to be
*        Looks like a vertical pool of liquid crystal, about 10 feet tall, 6 feet wide
*        Swirling with colors that shouldn't exist
*        I could see through it - there's something on the other side. Movement. 
Shapes.
The Components:
*        Three pedestals arranged in a triangle around the gate
*        Each pedestal has a slot for something
*        One already has a component - looks like a crystal prism
*        Two are empty - one's the right size for that sapphire rod you're carrying
The Guardian:
*        There's a creature between you and the gate
*        It's... gods, Johannes, it's not from this world
*        Hovering, tentacles, too many eyes
*        About 8 feet across
*        It's aware - not sleeping like the gibberlings
*        Positioned to defend the gate
The Danger:
*        If you approach, it will attack
*        The runes on the floor might be traps or wards
*        The gate itself is... wrong. Looking at it too long made me nauseous
*        There's something pulling from the other side - trying to come through"
She pauses.
"Your patron wants you to activate that gate. To put the components in place. 
But that guardian isn't going to let you just walk up and do it."
Your patron's hunger intensifies, almost painful. Yes. The gate. The 
components. Open it.
"What's your read on the guardian?" you ask. "Can we take it?"
"Unknown. It's an aberration - Far Realm creature. Could be anything. But 
we're at full strength, and I'm still invisible for ten more minutes. That's an 
advantage."
THE SITUATION:
*        The Vast Gate chamber lies ahead
*        A Far Realm guardian protects it
*        You have the sapphire rod (1 of 3 components needed)
*        Kessa is invisible (~10 minutes)
*        Your patron desperately wants you to activate the gate
What do you do?
*        Buff up and engage the guardian
*        Try to sneak past it to examine the gate first
*        Ask Kessa more questions about what she saw
*        Something else?
Add all buffs and let's go!
Nov 30
ALL IN
"We're doing this," you say, steel in your voice. "Full buffs, hit it hard and fast 
while you're still invisible."
"Now you're talking," Kessa replies. "What's the plan?"
"I'll draw its attention, you flank. I'll keep it locked down with Eldritch Blast 
while you get into position for critical strikes. We take it down before it knows 
what hit it."
"I like it. Let's stack every advantage we've got."
 
BUFFING UP
Applying all combat buffs before engaging guardian
 
ARMORED AND READY
You whisper the words of Armor of Agathys, and freezing magical energy 
wraps around you like a second skin. Frost forms briefly on your armor before 
fading - but you can feel it there, ready to punish anyone who strikes you.
"Alright," you say quietly. "You go in first while invisible. Get into flanking 
position. I'll step through and immediately apply Hex to it, then hit it with 
Eldritch Blast. That's your signal - hit it from behind with everything you've 
got."
"Got it. Aim for vital areas, exploit the surprise." Kessa's voice is focused, 
professional. "If things go bad, I've got healing and crowd control ready."
"And I've got Counterspell if it tries anything magical."
You both move to the doorway. Through it, you can see the chamber - the 
pulsing red light, the impossible colors of the Vast Gate swirling in the center, 
and the guardian.
It hovers about four feet off the ground, a mass of writhing tentacles 
surrounding a central body covered in too many eyes. Each eye glows with 
alien intelligence. This is no mindless gibberling - this thing is aware.
Your patron screams in your mind: KILL IT. OPEN THE GATE. FULFILL 
THE BARGAIN.
"Ready?" you ask Kessa.
"Ready."
"Then let's do this."
 
ENTERING THE VAST GATE CHAMBER
You're about to step through when-
Roll for initiative! Combat is about to begin.
Would you like me to proceed with rolling initiative and starting the combat 
encounter?
Yep!
Nov 30
INITIATIVE!
Rolling initiative for guardian combat
 
SURPRISE ROUND - PERFECT AMBUSH!
You step through the doorway together. The guardian floats near the center of 
the chamber, its many eyes scanning the swirling gate behind it. For just a 
moment, it's focused on the portal, not the entrance.
That moment is all you need.
 
KESSA'S TURN (Invisible, Surprise)
Kessa moves like a shadow, circling wide to flank the creature. It has no idea 
she's there.
She raises her hand crossbow, takes careful aim at what looks like a vital 
cluster of eyes, and fires.
Kessa's surprise attack with sneak attack damage
 
DEVASTATING OPENING
THUNK!
Kessa's crossbow bolt punches directly into a cluster of the guardian's eyes. 
The creature convulses, tentacles thrashing, dark ichor spraying from the 
wound.
38 damage! A brutal opening strike.
Her invisibility shatters as she becomes visible, already reloading with 
practiced speed. The guardian knows it's under attack now, but it's badly 
wounded and hasn't even had a chance to respond.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN (Surprise)
Your turn. The creature is reeling from Kessa's shot. Time to pile on.
You focus your Hex on the guardian - dark energy coils around it, marking it 
for death. Then you unleash both beams of Eldritch Blast.
Johannes's Hex and Eldritch Blast attack
 
COMBINED ASSAULT
Dark energy wraps around the guardian as you mark it with Hex. Then your 
first Eldritch Blast slams into its central mass - eldritch force and necrotic 
energy tearing through aberrant flesh.
15 damage!
Your second beam goes wide, missing as the creature thrashes.
Total damage: 53!
The guardian is badly wounded, ichor pouring from multiple wounds. But it's 
not dead.
 
GUARDIAN'S TURN
The creature cannot act this round (surprised), but it's now aware of the 
threat. Its many eyes focus on you and Kessa, tentacles writhing with 
malevolent intelligence.
 
END OF SURPRISE ROUND
ROUND 1 BEGINS - NORMAL INITIATIVE
Combat status update before Round 1
 
ROUND 1 - KESSA'S TURN
The guardian is heavily wounded but still dangerous. Kessa needs to finish this 
fast.
"Keep hitting it!" she shouts, firing another crossbow bolt while moving to 
maintain flanking position.
Kessa's attack in Round 1
Another bolt finds its mark, punching through tentacles and into the 
creature's core.
18 damage! Total: 71 damage to the guardian!
The creature is barely holding together, ichor streaming from dozens of 
wounds. But it's still hovering, still fighting.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
Your turn. Finish it.
What do you do?
*        Eldritch Blast again (2 beams, likely to kill it)
*        Cast a different spell
*        Something else?
EB, please!
Nov 30
FINISHING BLOW
"Die already!" you snarl, unleashing both beams of Eldritch Blast at the 
wounded guardian.
Johannes's finishing Eldritch Blast attack
 
THE GUARDIAN DIES
Both beams strike true - one after the other, hammering into the creature's 
central mass.
21 damage! Total: 92 damage!
The first beam punches through what might be its heart. The second 
obliterates a cluster of eyes that seem vital to its existence.
The guardian shrieks - a sound that shouldn't exist in this reality, a keening 
wail that makes your teeth ache and your vision blur. Its tentacles thrash 
wildly one final time, then go limp.
The creature drops from the air, hitting the glowing runes on the floor with a 
wet thud. Ichor pools around it, steaming in the red light.
Then it begins to dissolve - not decay, but unmake itself, reality rejecting this 
thing that never should have existed here. Within seconds, nothing remains 
but a dark stain and the fading echo of that horrible scream.
 
COMBAT OVER - VICTORY!
Combat summary and next steps
 
SILENCE IN THE CHAMBER
The guardian is gone. The chamber falls quiet except for the pulsing of the red 
light and the faint hum emanating from the Vast Gate.
"That was... efficient," Kessa says, lowering her crossbow. "We barely got 
scratched."
You nod, but you're not celebrating. Your patron's presence in your mind 
is screaming now, a constant pressure: THE GATE. THE COMPONENTS. 
OPEN IT. NOW.
You resist the urge to immediately comply and take stock of the chamber.
THE VAST GATE CHAMBER:
The circular room is about 60 feet across. In the center floats the gate - a 
vertical oval of impossible colors, swirling and shifting. Looking at it makes 
your eyes hurt. Through it, you can see... movement. Shapes. Something on 
the other side, waiting.
Three pedestals form a triangle around the gate, each about 10 feet from the 
portal:
Pedestal 1 (North): Contains a crystal prism, glowing with inner 
light Pedestal 2 (East): Empty - the right size for your sapphire 
rod Pedestal 3 (South): Empty
The floor is covered in three concentric rings of glowing runes - Elder Elf 
script, but corrupted, twisted.
"So," Kessa says carefully. "Your demon wants you to put that sapphire rod in 
the empty pedestal. What happens if you do?"
Good question.
What do you want to do?
*        Examine the gate more closely
*        Investigate the pedestals and runes (Arcana check)
*        Search the chamber for treasure/information
*        Place the sapphire rod (do what your patron demands)
*        Talk to Kessa about the situation
*        Something else?
What does Kressa recommend?
Nov 30
KESSA'S ASSESSMENT
You turn to Kessa, forcing yourself to think past your patron's screaming 
demands. "What's your read on this?"
She's been circling the chamber, studying the gate from different angles, 
careful not to get too close. Now she stops and looks at you seriously.
"Honestly? This scares the hell out of me, Johannes."
She gestures at the gate. "That thing is wrong. Like, fundamentally wrong. It's 
a hole in reality leading somewhere that shouldn't be accessible. And your 
patron desperately wants it open."
She counts on her fingers:
"What we know:
*        Three components needed to activate the gate
*        One's already here (that prism)
*        You have the second (sapphire rod)
*        Third is missing
*        The Elder Elves sealed this place for a reason
*        Madreus - whoever that is - seems to be collecting the components
*        Your patron is bound to you through a contract involving artifacts
What worries me:
*        Why does your patron want this gate open?
*        What's on the other side trying to get through?
*        If you put that rod in place with only 2 of 3 components, does it do 
anything? Or do you need all three?
*        Where's the third component?"
She pauses, thinking it through like the professional criminal she is.
"My recommendation:
First, we search this chamber thoroughly. Look for clues, documents, anything 
that tells us what this gate actually does. The Elder Elves were researchers - 
they'd have records.
Second, we examine those runes. You've got some arcane knowledge - see if 
you can figure out what happens when the gate activates.
Third - and this is important - we decide if you're actually going to do what 
the demon wants. Because once you put that rod in place, we might not be able 
to take it back out."
She looks at you with genuine concern.
"I know that thing in your chest is hurting you right now. I can see it. But 
rushing into activating an ancient dimensional portal because a fiend tells you 
to? That's how people get killed. Or worse."
She softens slightly. "I'm not saying don't do it. Maybe opening this gate is the 
key to getting free of your patron - maybe that's the 'tribute' it's been 
demanding. But let's at least understand what we're doing before we do it."
Kessa's recommendation: Investigate first, act second.
What do you want to do?
Dressage is right, proceed in her order
Nov 30
METHODICAL INVESTIGATION
"You're right," you say, fighting down your patron's rage. The fiend howls in 
your mind, but you grit your teeth and ignore it. "We investigate first. No 
rushing into this blind."
"Thank the gods you've still got your head on straight," Kessa says with relief. 
"Alright, let's work systematically."
 
STEP 1: SEARCH THE CHAMBER
You both begin searching the room for any documents, clues, or hidden 
information.
Searching the chamber for clues and documentation
 
KESSA'S DISCOVERIES
"Johannes, over here!" Kessa calls from near the eastern wall.
She's found a small alcove you initially missed - hidden behind a fold in the 
rock. Inside are several items:
1. ELDER ELF TABLETS Stone tablets covered in the flowing script of the 
Elder Elves. Most are damaged, but some sections are readable. You can make 
out warnings and technical specifications.
2. NIGEL'S JOURNAL A leather-bound journal, water-stained and worn. 
The name "Nigel Brightspark, Conjurer" is written inside the cover. This is one 
of the four who entered 27 years ago and never returned.
3. EMPTY COMPONENT CASE Near the southern pedestal, a crystalline 
case designed to hold something roughly the size of your sapphire rod. It's 
empty, but the dust patterns show something was removed recently - within 
the last few weeks or months.
"Someone's been here before us," Kessa says. "Recently. And they took the 
third component."
You nod. "Madreus. Has to be. Wellfast mentioned him."
"Read the journal first," she suggests. "Nigel might have written down what 
this gate does before he... well, before whatever happened to him."
NIGEL'S JOURNAL - READABLE ENTRIES:
You flip through the damaged pages. Many are illegible, but several key 
passages remain:
 
Day 3: We've reached the inner sanctum. The Vast Gate is even more 
magnificent than the legends suggested. A portal between realms, built by 
the Elder Elves in their hubris.
Day 5: Derek insists we should leave immediately. He's right to be afraid. 
The gate whispers. Not with sound, but with... presence. Something on the 
other side wants through.
Day 8: I've deciphered the activation mechanism. Three components work in 
concert:
*        The Crystal Prism (focuses dimensional energy)
*        The Sapphire Rod (anchors the portal)
*        The Emerald Key (controls the destination)
All three must be placed simultaneously for the gate to activate.
Day 10: Quaren has become obsessed with the gate. She stands before it for 
hours, staring into the Far Realm beyond. I fear for her sanity.
Day 12: CRITICAL DISCOVERY - The gate doesn't just open. It 
EXCHANGES. When activated, something from this side goes through... and 
something from the other side comes through. Equal mass. The Elder Elves 
used it to send exploration teams while bringing back samples.
But the creatures of the Far Realm learned to use it in reverse.
 
The next several pages are destroyed. Then one final entry:
 
Day ?: It's too late. Quaren placed two components before we could stop her. 
The gate is partially active. Things are... seeping through. Derek is dead. I've 
hidden the Emerald Key where it can never be found.
If anyone reads this: DESTROY THE COMPONENTS. Never let all three 
come together. The Far Realm must stay sealed.
 
The journal ends there.
Kessa reads over your shoulder, her face pale. "An exchange. Something goes 
through, something comes back. Equal mass."
You feel cold. Your patron has been demanding you find artifacts, bring them 
here. Is it trying to send itself through the gate? To escape back to the Far 
Realm?
Or worse... is it trying to bring something through?
What do you do now?
We should go looking for Madreus first, it doesn't commit us to anything until 
we have the 3rd component
Nov 30
TACTICAL RETREAT
"We need to find Madreus," you say, closing the journal carefully. "He has the 
third component - the Emerald Key. Without it, we can't activate the gate even 
if we wanted to."
"And more importantly," Kessa adds, "we learn what his plan is before we 
commit to anything. Smart."
Your patron rages in your mind, demanding you place the sapphire rod 
immediately, but you ignore it. The fiend can't force you - not yet. The contract 
requires you to bring tributes, but it doesn't control your actions directly.
"Plus," you continue, "if Madreus is trying to activate this gate, we need to 
know why. And stop him if necessary."
Kessa nods approvingly. "Finally, someone in this cursed mountain thinking 
with their brain instead of following orders from extradimensional entities." 
She grins. "Let's find this Madreus character."
 
LEAVING THE VAST GATE CHAMBER
You take one last look at the swirling portal. Through it, you can see shapes 
moving - patient, waiting. They've been waiting for millennia. They can wait a 
bit longer.
"The journal mentioned the Far Realm 'seeping through' when two 
components were active," you note. "Right now only one is in place. We should 
be safe leaving it like this."
"Should be," Kessa mutters. "Famous last words."
You exit through the far tunnel - the one your patron's pull was leading you 
toward before the guardian fight. The red pulsing light continues ahead.
Exploring beyond the gate chamber looking for Madreus
 
MADREUS'S SANCTUM - DISCOVERED
About 130 feet down the tunnel, you notice something Kessa almost missed - 
your military-trained eye catches it.
"Wait," you hold up a hand. "Look at the wall here."
The stone appears solid, but there's a slight difference in the air flow. A draft. 
And the red light is brighter from a specific direction.
You run your hand along the wall and find it - another secret passage, this one 
more cunningly hidden than the others.
"Good eye," Kessa whispers.
You ease the hidden door open and peer through.
 
MADREUS'S SANCTUM
The chamber beyond is clearly someone's living quarters and workspace. 
About 40 feet across, carved from the natural cave but modified with Elder Elf 
architectural elements.
Your Devil's Sight reveals:
The Room:
*        A bedroll in one corner (recently used)
*        A work table covered in papers, diagrams, and alchemical equipment
*        Shelves lined with books, scrolls, and strange specimens in jars
*        A large mirror on one wall - but it shows things that aren't in the room
*        Several glowing orbs providing red light
The Occupant: A figure sits at the work table with his back to you - 
humanoid, wearing robes. He appears to be writing something, completely 
absorbed in his work. You can hear him muttering to himself.
Most Importantly: On the table beside him, you can see it - a crystalline 
object glowing with green light. The Emerald Key. The third component.
Kessa breathes in your ear: "Is that him? Madreus?"
The figure hasn't noticed you yet. You could:
Options:
1.        Observe and listen - See what he's doing before acting
2.        Ambush him - Strike while his back is turned
3.        Announce yourself - Try to talk/negotiate
4.        Sneak in and steal the Emerald Key - Kessa could try it
5.        Something else?
What do you do?
Arcana check, are there wars or protections in place?
Nov 30
CHECKING FOR MAGICAL DEFENSES
"Hold," you whisper to Kessa. "Let me check for wards first. This is a wizard's 
sanctum - there will be protections."
You carefully examine the doorway and the chamber beyond, looking for 
telltale signs of magical traps or wards.
Arcana check to detect magical wards and protections
 
KESSA'S SHARP EYE
Kessa studies the chamber intently, her experience with breaking into noble 
estates serving her well. After a long moment, she whispers:
"Huh. That's... interesting."
"What?" you ask.
"This place is barely warded at all. I can see faint magical auras - probably 
basic alarm spells on some of his personal belongings. But the doorway? 
Clean. The Emerald Key on the table? Nothing I can detect."
You frown. "A wizard's sanctum with minimal defenses?"
"Either he's incredibly arrogant, incredibly stupid, or..." Kessa pauses, 
thinking. "Or he doesn't expect threats from this direction. Look where we are 
- deep in the Twisted Caverns, past gibberlings, past the guardian, past the 
Vast Gate itself. Who would make it this far to threaten him?"
She's right. The real defenses were the creatures and the environment. If you 
got past all of that, you'd earned access to this inner sanctum.
"Or," you add darkly, "he has other protections we can't see. Aberrations 
under his control. Contingency spells."
"True. But at least we can enter without triggering immediate alarms."
You both watch Madreus continue his work, still oblivious to your presence. 
He's hunched over documents, making notes, occasionally glancing at the 
Emerald Key with obvious hunger.
From here, you can hear his muttering more clearly:
"...almost ready... just need to coordinate with Wellfast... the gibberlings will 
provide sufficient mass... yes, yes, the exchange will work..."
He chuckles to himself - a sound without humor.
"Soon. Very soon, I'll finally leave this prison and return to-"
He stops, tilts his head as if listening to something you can't hear, then 
continues writing.
What you know:
*        Minimal magical wards (surprisingly)
*        Madreus is planning something involving "the exchange" and using 
gibberlings
*        He's working with Wellfast (who you've already robbed)
*        The Emerald Key is right there on the table
What do you do?
*        Continue observing and listening
*        Try to sneak in and steal the Emerald Key (risky but possible)
*        Confront Madreus directly
*        Ambush him while his back is turned
*        Something else?
Ambush! Hex, EB!
Nov 30
STRIKE FIRST, ASK QUESTIONS NEVER
You make the tactical decision instantly. This is the man trying to open the 
Vast Gate. He has the component you need. And his back is turned.
You signal Kessa with military hand signs: I'll hit first, you follow up.
She nods, already raising her crossbow.
You step through the doorway, Hex already forming on your lips.
Rolling initiative and surprise for Madreus ambush
 
NO SURPRISE - HE'S READY!
Your boot scrapes on stone as you enter, and Madreus's head snaps around 
with inhuman speed.
"Intruders!" he hisses, his hand already moving in an arcane gesture.
You see him clearly now - a human man, but twisted by years of exposure to 
the Far Realm. His skin has an unnatural pallor, his eyes are too large, and 
when he speaks, you see too many teeth.
He was ready for this. Somehow, he was ready.
 
ROUND 1 - INITIATIVE ORDER:
1.        Kessa (14)
2.        Madreus (14) - tied, will roll to determine who goes first
3.        Johannes (4)
Breaking initiative tie
 
MADREUS ACTS FIRST!
The conjurer's hands blur through a casting motion, and he shouts a word in a 
language that hurts to hear.
Madreus's action in round 1
 
DEMONIC REINFORCEMENTS!
Madreus speaks words of fell summoning, and reality tears open. Two 
grotesque forms materialize in bursts of sulfur and screaming - manes, the 
lowest form of demon. Twisted humanoid shapes, dripping ichor, their faces 
masks of mindless hunger.
They position themselves between you and Madreus, snarling.
"Kill them," Madreus commands, his voice cold. He begins another casting...
 
KESSA'S TURN
"Demons? Really?" Kessa snarls, firing her crossbow at Madreus over the 
manes' heads.
Kessa's attack on Madreus
Her bolt flies past Madreus's head, embedding in the wall behind him. He 
smirks.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
Finally your turn. Two manes between you and Madreus. You can either deal 
with the demons or try to hit Madreus directly.
What do you do?
Options:
*        Hex + Eldritch Blast at Madreus (shooting past the demons, might 
have disadvantage)
*        Hex + Eldritch Blast at the manes (eliminate the minions first)
*        Cast a different spell (Mirror Image for defense? Something else?)
*        Something else?
Current status:
*        You: 39/39 HP + 5 temp HP (Armor of Agathys still active)
*        Kessa: 38/38 HP
*        2 manes blocking your path to Madreus
*        Madreus: Unharmed, preparing another spell
What's your move?
Manes, one stream each hex on madreus
Nov 30
CLEARING THE PATH
"Deal with the demons first!" you shout to Kessa, already calling on your 
patron's power.
You target Madreus with Hex, dark energy coiling around him. Then you split 
your Eldritch Blast - one beam for each mane.
Johannes splits Eldritch Blast between the two manes
 
BOTH MANES WOUNDED
Your eldritch blasts slam into the demons. The first staggers backward, a 
smoking hole in its chest. The second shrieks as force energy tears through its 
shoulder.
Mane #1: 2/9 HP remaining Mane #2: 5/9 HP remaining
Both are badly wounded but still standing, still between you and Madreus.
 
END OF ROUND 1
MANES' TURNS
The wounded demons don't have the intelligence to retreat. They charge 
forward mindlessly, claws outstretched.
Manes attack Johannes and Kessa
 
DEMONIC CLAWS
The first mane lunges at you, claws raking. One misses, but the second catches 
you across the arm.
4 damage to Johannes!
*        Armor of Agathys absorbs it: 1/5 temp HP remaining
*        The mane takes 5 cold damage from Armor of Agathys 
retaliation!
*        Mane #1 is obliterated by the cold backlash! It freezes solid and shatters!
The second mane tears into Kessa with both claws, drawing blood.
4 damage to Kessa! (38/38 ? 34/38 HP)
 
ROUND 2 BEGINS
Round 2 status and initiative
 
MADREUS'S TURN - ROUND 2
Madreus sees one of his demons destroyed and you closing in. His eyes 
narrow, and he begins casting with desperate speed.
Madreus's action in round 2
Counterspell?
Nov 30
COUNTERSPELL DECISION
Madreus vanishes in a puff of arcane energy, reappearing across the room 
near his workbench - right next to the Emerald Key! He's repositioning to 
protect it.
As he begins the Fire Bolt cantrip, you could react with Counterspell to stop it.
Tactical consideration:
*        Fire Bolt will deal 10 fire damage (already rolled)
*        You have 39 HP + 1 temp HP remaining
*        Counterspell costs a 3rd level spell slot (you have 2 remaining)
*        Madreus might cast more dangerous spells later
*        The damage is relatively low
Do you want to:
1.        Counterspell the Fire Bolt (use 3rd level slot, prevent 10 damage)
2.        Let it hit (save the spell slot for a more dangerous spell later)
What's your call?
Let it hit.
Nov 30
SAVING YOUR RESOURCES
You could stop it, but a Fire Bolt isn't worth burning a precious 3rd level slot. 
You brace yourself as the flaming projectile streaks toward you.
WHOOSH!
The bolt strikes you square in the chest. Your armor heats up, the impact 
scorching your surcoat.
10 fire damage!
*        Your 1 temp HP is consumed
*        You take 9 damage to your real HP
*        Johannes: 30/39 HP
The Armor of Agathys temp HP is depleted - the cold retaliatory effect ends.
You grit your teeth through the pain. Worth it. You still have both 3rd level 
slots for when you really need them.
 
KESSA'S TURN - ROUND 2
"Johannes!" Kessa shouts, seeing you take the hit. She has a choice - finish the 
wounded mane or go for Madreus.
She makes the tactical call: finish the mane first.
Kessa attacks the wounded mane
 
MANE ELIMINATED
Kessa's bolt catches the demon right between its eyes. The sneak attack 
damage is overkill - the creature doesn't even have time to shriek before it 
collapses into sulfurous smoke and disappears.
Both manes are destroyed!
The path to Madreus is now clear.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN - ROUND 2
Your turn. Madreus is across the room near his workbench, the Emerald Key 
within his reach. No more minions between you.
Current status:
*        Johannes: 30/39 HP
*        Kessa: 34/38 HP
*        Madreus: Unharmed, Hexed, standing near the Emerald Key
*        No obstacles between you
What do you do?
*        Eldritch Blast (2 beams at Madreus with Hex bonus damage)
*        Cast a 3rd level spell (Fly to close distance? Counterspell ready?)
*        Misty Step closer (30 ft teleport, then cantrip)
*        Something else?
What's your move?
EB
Nov 30
UNLOAD ON MADREUS
With the demons gone, you have a clear shot at the conjurer. You unleash both 
beams of Eldritch Blast, Hex magnifying the damage.
Johannes's Eldritch Blast attack on Madreus
 
DEVASTATING HITS
Both beams strike true!
The first slams into Madreus's chest, eldritch force and dark necrotic energy 
tearing through his robes. He staggers back against the workbench.
18 damage!
The second catches him in the shoulder, spinning him around.
10 damage!
Total: 28 damage! Madreus is at 17/45 HP!
He's badly wounded, blood dripping from multiple injuries. His face contorts 
with pain and rage.
"Enough!" he screams, his hand shooting out to grab the Emerald Key.
 
END OF ROUND 2
ROUND 3 - MADREUS'S TURN
The conjurer is desperate now. He clutches the Emerald Key to his chest and 
begins casting with frantic speed.
Ranpython3 << 'EOF' import random print("MADREUS - ROUND 
3 (DESPERATE)") print("=" * 50) print("\nMadreus is 
bloodied (17/45 HP)") print("Holding the Emerald Key") 
print("Desperate action...") # Desperate wizard options 
action = random.randint(1, 6) actions = { 1: "Dimension 
Door - ESCAPE with Emerald Key", 2: "Misty Step to Gate 
chamber - try to activate it", 3: "Desperate Fireball - 
suicide attack", 4: "Polymorph self - turn into something 
dangerous", 5: "Greater Invisibility - vanish with the 
Key", 6: "Banishment on Johannes - send him away" } 
print(f"\nMadreus casts: {actions[action]}") if action == 
1: print("\n>>> DIMENSION DOOR!") print("Madreus 
vanishes, teleporting 500 feet away!") print("He takes 
the Emerald Key with him!") print("You hear his voice 
echo: 'You're too late! The exchange will happen!'") 
escape = True elif action == 2: print("\n>>> MISTY 
STEP!") print("Teleports toward the exit - trying to 
reach the Gate!") print("Running with the Emerald Key!") 
escape = "attempted" elif action == 3: print("\n>>> 
FIREBALL - DANGER CLOSE!") print("Casting at his own 
position to hit you both!") print("He'll take damage too 
but doesn't care!") base_dmg = sum([random.randint(1, 6) 
for _ in range(8)]) print(f"\nDamage: {base_dmg}") 
print("DEX saves DC 15 required!") j_save = 
random.randint(1, 20) + 2 k_save = random.randint(1, 20) 
+ 2 print(f"Johannes: {j_save}") print(f"Kessa: 
{k_save}") elif action == 4: print("\n>>> POLYMORPH!") 
print("Transforms into a Giant Ape!") print("HP resets to 
ape's HP pool!") print("Still holding Emerald Key in ape 
hand!") elif action == 5: print("\n>>> GREATER 
INVISIBILITY!") print("Madreus and the Emerald Key 
vanish!") print("Remains invisible even while acting!") 
print("You can't see where he is!") elif action == 6: 
print("\n>>> BANISHMENT on Johannes!") print("Trying to 
send you to another plane!") print("CHA save DC 15 
required!") save = random.randint(1, 20) + 3 
print(f"Johannes CHA save: {save}") if save >=
Counterspell
Nov 30
COUNTERSPELL!
You see Madreus beginning to cast - his hands moving in the complex gestures 
of a powerful spell, the Emerald Key clutched against his chest. Whatever he's 
doing, you can't let him finish it.
"Not today!" you snarl, throwing out your hand and speaking the words of 
Counterspell.
Johannes uses Counterspell to stop Madreus's spell
 
SPELL SHUT DOWN
Your Counterspell tears through Madreus's casting, unraveling the magical 
energies before they can take effect. Whatever he was trying to do - escape, 
attack, transform - it dies before completion.
The magical backlash staggers him. He looks at you with genuine fear now.
"No! NO!" he screams, still clutching the Emerald Key. "I will not be trapped 
here! I WILL NOT!"
 
KESSA'S TURN - ROUND 3
"He's panicking!" Kessa shouts. "Finish him!"
She fires at the wounded conjurer.
Kessa attacks Madreus
 
KESSA'S BOLT STRIKES
Her crossbow bolt punches into Madreus's side. He gasps, stumbling, barely 
staying on his feet.
14 damage! Madreus at 3/45 HP!
He's on death's door, bleeding profusely, barely conscious. But he's still 
standing, still holding the Emerald Key with white-knuckled desperation.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN - ROUND 3
He's practically dead. One more hit will finish it.
What do you do?
*        Eldritch Blast - Finish him (almost guaranteed kill)
*        Try to talk him down - He's beaten, maybe he'll surrender?
*        Non-lethal takedown - Try to knock him out instead of killing him
*        Something else?
Your call - kill him or try to capture him alive?
Non lethal. We need answers
Nov 30
NON-LETHAL TAKEDOWN
"We need him alive!" you shout to Kessa. "He knows what's happening with 
the gate!"
You aim carefully, switching your Eldritch Blast to strike to incapacitate rather 
than kill.
Non-lethal Eldritch Blast to capture Madreus alive
 
MADREUS SUBDUED
Your eldritch beam strikes him in the chest with just enough force to knock 
him out. He crumples to the floor, unconscious but breathing.
Clatter!
The Emerald Key falls from his limp fingers, rolling across the stone floor. The 
crystalline object glows with internal green light, pulsing with power.
COMBAT OVER - VICTORY!
Combat summary and next steps
 
AFTERMATH
Silence falls over Madreus's sanctum. The conjurer lies unconscious on the 
floor, his breathing shallow but steady. The Emerald Key gleams nearby, the 
final component needed to activate the Vast Gate.
Kessa moves quickly, pulling rope from her pack. "I'll tie him up. You grab 
that Key before anything else does."
You pick up the Emerald Key carefully. It's warm to the touch, thrumming 
with power. Through it, you can almost feel the Vast Gate calling, hungry to be 
complete.
Your patron surges in your mind: YES. THE KEY. NOW YOU HAVE 
TWO. BRING THEM TO THE GATE. COMPLETE IT.
You ignore the fiend's demands and pocket the Key next to the sapphire rod.
"He's secure," Kessa says, finishing the knots. "Not going anywhere. What 
now?"
You look around the sanctum - workbenches covered in documents, shelves 
full of books and specimens, that strange mirror on the wall.
What do you want to do?
1.        Search the sanctum thoroughly - Look for information about the 
gate, Madreus's plans, anything useful
2.        Wake and interrogate Madreus - Use Kessa's Cure Wounds to wake 
him, question him
3.        Examine the mirror - Kessa mentioned it shows things not in the 
room
4.        Short rest here - Recover some HP and spell slots before proceeding
5.        Head back to the Vast Gate - You have answers to make about what 
to do next
6.        Something else?
What's your priority?
Search, then short rest
Nov 30
THOROUGH INVESTIGATION
"Let's search this place top to bottom," you say. "Then rest while we decide 
what to do with him and those components."
"Agreed. Let me heal us first though - we both took hits."
Kessa casts Cure Wounds on herself, then on you.
Kessa heals the party
Better. The healing magic closes your burns and cuts. You're almost back to 
full strength.
 
SEARCHING MADREUS'S SANCTUM
You both systematically search the chamber while Madreus remains 
unconscious and bound.
Searching Madreus's sanctum
 
EXCEPTIONAL DISCOVERIES
Your military thoroughness combined with Kessa's sharp eye 
uncovers everything in the sanctum.
1. MADREUS'S JOURNAL
A detailed log of his decades trapped in Firestorm Peak. Key entries:
"Year 1: The comet appeared. We came seeking knowledge of the Elder Elves. 
We were fools."
"Year 3: Nigel is dead. Quaren transformed into something... else. Derek 
consumed by gibberlings. Only I remain, trapped when the gates sealed. 
Twenty-seven years until they open again."
"Year 15: I have made contact with entities beyond the Vast Gate. They 
promise me escape if I help them cross over. The 'exchange' - something of 
equal mass goes through when something comes back."
"Year 27: Finally! The comet returns! I've spent decades preparing. The 
gibberlings in stasis - three of them, carefully cultivated to the right mass. 
When the gate activates, they go through... and THREE entities from the Far 
Realm come here. My patrons. My salvation."
"They will grant me passage home. All I need is to assemble the three 
components and activate the gate. Wellfast has the rod. The prism was 
already here. I took the key from Nigel's hiding place."
2. CORRESPONDENCE WITH WELLFAST
Letters between Madreus and the Duergar commander:
*        Wellfast provides supplies and guards the upper complex
*        Madreus provides magical aid and promises of power
*        They plan to activate the gate "when the time is right"
*        Wellfast doesn't fully understand what will come through
3. RITUAL DIAGRAMS
Detailed instructions for activating the Vast Gate:
*        All three components must be placed in their pedestals simultaneously
*        The runes on the floor must be activated in sequence
*        The exchange happens automatically once activated
*        WARNING in Madreus's handwriting: "Once started, the 
exchange cannot be stopped. Whatever mass crosses one way, equal 
mass crosses the other."
4. THE SCRYING MIRROR
Kessa examines the mirror closely. "This is showing the Vast Gate chamber. 
Right now. Live."
You look - she's right. The mirror displays the gate chamber where you fought 
the guardian. The swirling portal, the three pedestals (one with the prism, two 
empty), the glowing runes.
"He's been watching it this whole time," you realize.
5. PERSONAL EFFECTS
*        Spellbook (conjuration specialist)
*        Alchemical components worth ~200gp
*        A locket with a picture of a woman and child (his family, from before he 
was trapped)
*        Small personal wealth: 75gp, 30sp
6. HIDDEN COMPARTMENT
Behind a loose stone, you find:
*        2 healing potions
*        A scroll of Misty Step
*        A desperate note: "If I fail, if the entities betray me, if I cannot escape - 
may whoever finds this know: I only wanted to go home. Twenty-
seven years is too long."
 
Kessa sits back, holding Madreus's journal. "Gods. He's been trapped here for 
twenty-seven years. Since the last time the comet appeared. Everyone else 
died or transformed. He's been alone all this time, slowly going mad."
She looks at the unconscious conjurer. "He's not trying to conquer the world. 
He just wants to escape. And he made a deal with Far Realm entities to do it."
What you now know:
*        Madreus plans to send the three stasis gibberlings through the gate
*        Three Far Realm entities will come through in exchange
*        Those entities promised Madreus passage home
*        Wellfast is complicit but doesn't know the full plan
*        The gate activation cannot be stopped once started
*        Madreus has been trapped here for 27 years
Your patron screams in your mind, demanding you complete the 
gate. But now you understand more of what that means.
What do you do?
1.        Wake and interrogate Madreus - Get his side of the story
2.        Begin short rest - Recover before making decisions
3.        Examine the scrying mirror more closely - See if it shows 
anything else
4.        Read through Madreus's spellbook - Might have useful 
information
5.        Something else?
Examine, then read, then rest.
Nov 30
METHODICAL INVESTIGATION
"Let's be thorough," you say. "Mirror first, then the spellbook, then we rest 
and decide what to do."
 
EXAMINING THE SCRYING MIRROR
You and Kessa study the mirror carefully. It's showing the Vast Gate chamber 
in real-time - you can see the portal swirling, the pedestals, the runes glowing 
faintly.
Examining the scrying mirror
The mirror is clearly magical, showing the Vast Gate chamber, but you can't 
determine much more than that without deeper arcane knowledge. It's a 
monitoring device - Madreus watched the gate from here.
"Convenient for him," Kessa notes. "Stay safe in his sanctum while keeping an 
eye on his prize."
 
READING MADREUS'S SPELLBOOK
You open the conjurer's spellbook carefully. It's filled with intricate spell 
formulas and notes.
Reading Madreus's spellbook and notes
The spellbook reveals Madreus's expertise in conjuration - summoning, 
teleportation, and dimensional travel. His notes about the gate become 
increasingly frantic and hard to read, suggesting his mental state deteriorated 
over the years of isolation.
"Twenty-seven years alone in these caves," Kessa murmurs. "I'd go mad too."