
5e Duets/
I have added new files to the Knowledge Base for this project. Are you able to 
access them?
Nov 30
Yes, I can access the files in your project's Knowledge Base! Let me search to 
see what's available.
Searched project for "files documents content overview"
3 results
Yes, I can definitely access your project files! I can see you have several D&D-
related documents in the Knowledge Base, including:
1.	D&D 5e System Reference Document (SRD 5.1) - The core rules 
and mechanics
2.	The Penshaw Poisonings - A one-on-one D&D adventure module
3.	One-on-One D&D guides - Articles about how to run and play duet 
(one-on-one) D&D games
4.	Information about scaling combat and encounters for single-player 
games
5.	Content about the World of Azuria (a homebrew setting)
The files cover topics like creating adventures for one-on-one play, using 
sidekicks, adapting encounters, and running duet campaigns.
Is there something specific you'd like me to help you with using these 
resources? I can answer questions about the content, help you plan 
encounters, create adventures, or work with the mechanics from the SRD!
I'd like to begin a run through of Gates of Firestorm Peak using the 5e SRD 
rules. I will create a character of my own to begin.
Nov 30
Excellent! I'd be happy to run you through Gates of Firestorm Peak using 5e 
rules. This is a classic adventure, and it should work well adapted to 5e 
mechanics.
Let me search the knowledge base for the Gates of Firestorm Peak content so I 
can familiarize myself with the adventure details.
Searched project for "Gates of Firestorm Peak adventure module"
1 result
Perfect! I can see the Gates of Firestorm Peak adventure. This is a classic 
module about an ancient elven fortress built around a dimensional gate that's 
been reopened by a comet's return. The adventure involves exploring the 
mountain to stop an evil conjurer named Madreus before he permanently 
opens the Vast Gate to the Far Realm.
Before we begin, let's create your character! For a one-on-one adventure like 
this, we'll want to make sure your character is well-rounded and can handle 
various challenges. Based on the duet resources in the knowledge base, we 
may also want to consider giving you a sidekick companion to help with action 
economy.
What I need from you to create your character:
1.	Class - What class would you like to play?
2.	Race - What race appeals to you?
3.	Background - Do you have a background concept in mind?
4.	Ability Scores - Would you like to use standard array (15, 14, 13, 12, 
10, 8), point buy, or roll for stats?
5.	Starting Level - The adventure mentions this is suitable for mid-level 
characters. I'd suggest starting at level 5-7. What sounds good to you?
Also, would you like me to create a sidekick NPC to accompany you, or would 
you prefer to adventure solo (which is more challenging but doable)?
I'll play a human variant 6th level Warlock, using the Soldier background. Let's 
roll for stats (I typically use the house rule of rolling 3 sets of stats and 
choosing which one to keep.
Nov 30
Excellent choice! A 6th level Warlock with military experience should be very 
interesting for this adventure. Let me roll 3 sets of ability scores for you.
Rolling 3 sets of ability scores using 4d6 drop lowest
Great rolls! Here are your three options:
Set 1: [15, 10, 12, 15, 6, 13] - Total: 71, Average: 11.83
*	Has a low 6, but two 15s could work well
Set 2: [15, 12, 15, 14, 16, 14] - Total: 86, Average: 14.33
*	Excellent set! Very well-rounded with high scores
Set 3: [8, 9, 10, 18, 13, 11] - Total: 69, Average: 11.50
*	Has that awesome 18, but several low scores
Set 2 looks outstanding - it gives you great flexibility and no dump stats. 
Which set would you like to use?
Once you choose, we'll need to determine:
1.	Warlock Patron (Archfey, Fiend, Great Old One, etc.)
2.	Pact Boon (Chain, Blade, or Tome - you get this at level 3)
3.	Spells known and Invocations
4.	Equipment from your Soldier background
5.	Your character's name and personality
Also, given this is a one-on-one adventure, would you like a sidekick 
companion? The knowledge base recommends this for action economy in duet 
play.
Yes, let's use Set 2.
Nov 30
Excellent! Set 2 gives you [15, 12, 15, 14, 16, 14] to work with.
Now let's build out your 6th level Human Variant Warlock:
Ability Score Assignment: As a Warlock, you'll want Charisma as your 
primary stat, and Constitution is important for survivability. Where would you 
like to assign these scores?
My suggestion for a Warlock would be:
*	Charisma: 16 (+1 from Variant Human = 17)
*	Constitution: 15 (+1 from Variant Human = 16)
*	Dexterity: 15 (for AC and initiative)
*	Wisdom: 14 (for perception and saves)
*	Intelligence: 14 (solid for investigation/knowledge)
*	Strength: 12 (fits your soldier background)
Does this work for you, or would you prefer a different arrangement?
Next, we need to determine:
1.	Warlock Patron - Which otherworldly being grants you power?
*	The Fiend (fire/dark power)
*	The Archfey (fey magic and charm)
*	The Great Old One (telepathy and mind-affecting powers - 
thematically interesting given this adventure involves the Far 
Realm!)
*	Other options if you have access to other sourcebooks
2.	Pact Boon (gained at 3rd level):
*	Pact of the Chain (special familiar)
*	Pact of the Blade (magical weapon)
*	Pact of the Tome (extra cantrips and rituals)
3.	Variant Human Feat - You get a free feat! What would you like?
What are you thinking for these choices?
Which feats might be the most advantageous considering the constraints of a 
duet setting?
Nov 30
Searched project for "duet one-on-one PC adaptations empowered feats 
abilities"
1 result
Great question! Based on the duet mechanics guidance, here are the most 
advantageous feats for a one-on-one setting:
Top Tier for Duets:
1.	War Caster - Absolutely essential for a Warlock in duet play
*	Advantage on concentration saves (crucial when you're a primary 
damage dealer)
*	Cast spells as opportunity attacks
*	Can perform somatic components with weapons/shield in hand
2.	Resilient (Constitution) - Excellent survivability
*	+1 to CON (making your 15 ? 16)
*	Proficiency in CON saves for concentration
3.	Lucky - Action economy saver
*	Reroll critical failures when you're the only PC
*	Can turn the tide of deadly encounters
Strong Second Tier:
4.	Alert - Never being surprised is huge when outnumbered
*	+5 to initiative means you act first to control the battlefield
*	Can't be surprised
5.	Sentinel - If you take Pact of the Blade
*	Helps control enemies and protect your sidekick
Given your high CON (15) and that you're a caster who will be concentrating 
on key spells, I'd strongly recommend War Caster as your Variant 
Human feat. It will keep your concentration spells up when you get hit, which 
is critical in duet play where you have fewer party members to share the 
damage.
Does War Caster sound good to you? And have you thought about 
which Patron and Pact Boon you'd like?
Pact of the Blade, Fiend Patron. War Caster feat
Nov 30
Perfect! A Pact of the Blade Warlock with a Fiend Patron - you'll be a 
formidable warrior with dark powers. War Caster is an excellent choice for 
keeping your concentration up in the thick of combat.
Let me finalize your character sheet:
Character Build:
*	Race: Human (Variant)
*	Class: Warlock 6 (Fiend Patron, Pact of the Blade)
*	Background: Soldier
Ability Scores (with Variant Human bonuses):
*	Strength: 12
*	Dexterity: 15
*	Constitution: 16 (+1 from Variant Human)
*	Intelligence: 14
*	Wisdom: 14
*	Charisma: 17 (+1 from Variant Human)
Proficiencies:
*	Armor: Light armor
*	Weapons: Simple weapons
*	Tools: Gaming set (from Soldier), vehicles (land)
*	Saving Throws: Wisdom, Charisma
*	Skills: Choose 2 from Warlock list + 2 from Soldier background
At 6th level, you have:
*	Hit Points: 8 + 5d8 + (6 ? CON modifier = 18) = Let me roll your HP
Rolling HP for levels 2-6
Excellent! 53 HP - very solid for a 6th level Warlock.
Now let's choose your specifics:
Skills (choose 2 from Warlock list):
*	Arcana, Deception, History, Intimidation, Investigation, Nature, 
Religion
Soldier Background Skills:
*	Athletics, Intimidation
Warlock Features:
*	Pact Magic: 2 spell slots (recover on short rest), 3rd level spells
*	Eldritch Invocations: Choose 3 total
*	Fiend Patron Features:
*	Dark One's Blessing (temp HP when you reduce hostile to 0)
*	Dark One's Own Luck (add d10 to check/save 1/short rest)
*	Fiendish Resilience (choose damage resistance at end of 
short/long rest)
Recommended Invocations for Pact of the Blade:
1.	Thirsting Blade (REQUIRED - gives you Extra Attack)
2.	Lifedrinker (add CHA modifier to pact weapon damage - requires 
level 12, so not yet available)
3.	Suggestions for your 3rd:
*	Agonizing Blast (add CHA to Eldritch Blast damage)
*	Devil's Sight (see in magical darkness)
*	Mask of Many Faces (cast Disguise Self at will)
Spells Known (7 total - 4 cantrips, 6 spells up to 3rd level + 1 from patron):
Cantrips:
*	Eldritch Blast (essential)
*	3 more of your choice
Spells (Patron gives you extra):
*	From Fiend Patron: Burning Hands, Scorching Ray, Fireball (always 
prepared)
*	Choose 6 more
What skills and spells would you like?
Investigation and Arcana, I lijke Agonizing and Devil's Sight, let's add Repelling 
Blast as well. Give me listing of spell options
Nov 30
Searched project for "warlock spells cantrips spell list 5e"
1 result
Searched project for "warlock spell list all spells level 1 2 3"
1 result
Perfect! Let me compile the Warlock spell list for you from the SRD:
YOUR CHARACTER SO FAR:
*	Skills: Investigation, Arcana, Athletics, Intimidation
*	Invocations: Thirsting Blade, Agonizing Blast, Devil's Sight, Repelling 
Blast
*	Spells from Fiend Patron (always prepared): Burning Hands, 
Scorching Ray, Fireball
WARLOCK SPELL LIST (5e SRD) - Choose 6 more spells:
Cantrips (choose 3 more - you have Eldritch Blast):
*	Blade Ward
*	Chill Touch
*	Mage Hand
*	Minor Illusion
*	Poison Spray
*	Prestidigitation
*	True Strike
1st Level:
*	Charm Person
*	Comprehend Languages
*	Expeditious Retreat
*	Hellish Rebuke
*	Hex
*	Illusory Script
*	Protection from Evil and Good
*	Unseen Servant
*	Witch Bolt
2nd Level:
*	Darkness
*	Enthrall
*	Hold Person
*	Invisibility
*	Mirror Image
*	Misty Step
*	Ray of Enfeeblement
*	Shatter
*	Spider Climb
*	Suggestion
3rd Level:
*	Counterspell
*	Dispel Magic
*	Fear
*	Fly
*	Gaseous Form
*	Hypnotic Pattern
*	Magic Circle
*	Major Image
*	Remove Curse
*	Tongues
*	Vampiric Touch
RECOMMENDED SPELL SELECTIONS for Pact of the Blade 
Warlock in a duet:
Cantrips:
*	Mage Hand (utility)
*	Minor Illusion (versatility)
*	Prestidigitation (utility)
Spells:
*	Hex (1st) - Extra damage, essential for blade warlocks
*	Hellish Rebuke (1st) - Reaction damage when hit
*	Armor of Agathys (1st, if available) or Shield - Actually these aren't 
on the warlock list in the SRD
*	Mirror Image (2nd) - Defensive, crucial for melee
*	Misty Step (2nd) - Mobility
*	Hold Person (2nd) - Control/auto-crits in melee
*	Counterspell (3rd) - Essential utility
*	Fly (3rd) - Mobility and tactical advantage
Would you like these recommendations, or would you prefer to customize 
your spell selection?
Which of the cantrips are concentration-sensitive
Nov 30
None of the Warlock cantrips require concentration! Cantrips are instant-
effect spells, so you can freely use them without worrying about breaking 
concentration on your important spells like Hex, Hold Person, or any other 
concentration spell you cast.
This is great for your build because it means you can:
*	Spam Eldritch Blast every turn while maintaining Hex
*	Use Mage Hand, Minor Illusion, or Prestidigitation for utility without 
any concentration concerns
The concentration concern is really about your leveled spells. From the 
recommended list, these require concentration:
*	Hex (1st level) - Very important for damage
*	Hold Person (2nd level) - Great for auto-crits
*	Mirror Image (2nd level) - Does NOT require concentration 
(defensive buff)
*	Fly (3rd level) - Requires concentration
This is why War Caster is such a strong choice - it gives you advantage on 
Constitution saves to maintain concentration when you get hit, which will 
happen often as a Pact of the Blade melee combatant.
My recommended cantrip trio:
1.	Eldritch Blast (your main ranged attack)
2.	Mage Hand (30 ft range utility - open doors, retrieve items, 
manipulate objects from safety)
3.	Minor Illusion or Prestidigitation (creative problem-solving and 
social encounters)
Does that cantrip selection work for you? And are you good with the 
recommended spell list, or would you like to adjust it?
I like 1 and 2, lets go with minor illusion for 3.
Nov 30
Perfect! Eldritch Blast, Mage Hand, and Minor Illusion - a solid 
combination of combat power, utility, and creative problem-solving.
Now for your 6 leveled spells - are you good with my recommendations?
1.	Hex (1st) - Bonus damage on every hit
2.	Hellish Rebuke (1st) - Punish enemies who hit you
3.	Mirror Image (2nd) - Defense without concentration
4.	Misty Step (2nd) - Bonus action teleport
5.	Hold Person (2nd) - Paralyze humanoids, auto-crit in melee
6.	Counterspell (3rd) - Shut down enemy spells
Or would you like to swap any of these out for something else like Fly, 
Invisibility, Darkness (synergizes with Devil's Sight!), Hypnotic Pattern, 
Fear, Vampiric Touch, etc.?
Also, we need to finalize a few more details:
Equipment from Soldier background:
*	An insignia of rank
*	A trophy from a fallen enemy
*	Gaming set or playing card set
*	Common clothes
*	Belt pouch with 10 gp
Starting Warlock Equipment choices:
*	Light crossbow + 20 bolts OR simple weapon?
*	Component pouch OR arcane focus?
*	Scholar's pack OR dungeoneer's pack?
*	You also get leather armor, a simple weapon, and two daggers
Finally, and most importantly:
*	Character name?
*	Brief backstory - What led you to make a pact with a Fiend? What's 
your military background?
*	Would you like a sidekick companion for this adventure?
Light crossbow, arcane focus, dungeoneer pack, leather armor, short sword, nd 
aggers. Name: Johannes Constantinius, my company was out on patrol and 
stumbled onto a lost grotto. Despite our misgivings, we entered the cave and 
found a book. Being the only literate one in the group, I opened it, 
inadvertently summoning demon. The rest of the company was slaughtered, I 
was left alive to be a plaything for the fiend. I managed to find a wiard who 
has "freed" me from its direct influence, but unless I find objects it desires, it 
kills those around me to extract "payment" for my delay. I have spent the rest 
of my life seeking for things to placate it while I try and find a more 
permanent solution (i.e., something capable of killing or permanently 
banishing it. I definitely need a sidekick...suggestions?
Nov 30
Excellent backstory, Johannes! That's dark, compelling, and gives great 
motivation for adventuring. The constant threat of your fiend patron claiming 
those around you adds real tension and urgency to your quest.
For a sidekick, let me search the knowledge base for guidance on creating 
effective companions for duet play:
Searched project for "sidekick companion NPC duet one-on-one central party"
3 results
Perfect! Based on the duet guidance, here are my sidekick suggestions for 
Johannes:
Option 1: The Cleric/Healer (RECOMMENDED)
*	Name: Brother Aldric or Sister Maren
*	Concept: A traveling priest/priestess who recognizes your cursed 
nature and has made it their mission to help you find redemption and 
freedom from the fiend
*	Benefits: Healing, support magic, can help with undead (common in 
dungeons), provides moral counterbalance to your dark patron
*	Narrative fit: They believe saving you from damnation is their holy 
calling
Option 2: The Tank/Fighter
*	Name: Gareth Ironshield
*	Concept: A former soldier from your old company who survived 
(barely) and blames himself for not stopping you from opening the 
book. Travels with you out of guilt/loyalty
*	Benefits: Absorbs damage, protects you in melee while you cast, 
straightforward combat
*	Narrative fit: Living reminder of your past, complicated relationship
Option 3: The Rogue/Scout
*	Name: Sylas "Whisper"
*	Concept: A rogue who once tried to steal from you, discovered your 
secret, and now helps you acquire the "tributes" your patron demands
*	Benefits: Skills you lack (Stealth, Thieves' Tools, Sleight of Hand), 
ranged damage
*	Narrative fit: Morally flexible ally who understands desperate 
bargains
My recommendation: The Cleric - they complement your Warlock 
perfectly. You lack healing, and they provide it. You have damage and utility, 
they have support and healing. Narratively, the tension between your fiendish 
pact and their divine calling adds great roleplay opportunities.
Which appeals to you? Or would you like a different concept entirely?
Argh, these all sound great!
Nov 30
Haha, I know the feeling! They each bring something unique to the table.
Here's a thought - since you're going into Gates of Firestorm Peak, which 
involves:
*	An ancient elven fortress
*	A dimensional gate to the Far Realm
*	Lots of dungeon crawling and combat
*	Duergar (gray dwarves), aberrations, and extraplanar threats
*	A 28-day time limit before disaster strikes
I'd lean toward the Cleric (Option 1) for pure survival and practicality. 
You'll need healing badly in extended dungeon exploration, and divine magic 
can handle undead and aberrations well. Plus, the roleplay dynamic of a holy 
person helping someone bound to a fiend is chef's kiss.
However, if you want maximum dramatic tension with your backstory, the 
Fighter (Option 2) - the survivor from your company - would be absolutely 
devastating emotionally. Every time they save your life, there's that unspoken 
weight of "you got the others killed."
Quick decision method:
*	Want to survive longer and have tactical flexibility? ? Cleric
*	Want maximum emotional drama and simpler combat? ? Fighter
*	Want a morally gray tomb-raiding vibe? ? Rogue
What does your gut say? Or I can create whichever one you pick - just tell me 
which number (1, 2, or 3) and I'll build them out as a 6th level character to 
match Johannes!
Let's combine 1 and 3 in the form of a bard? The stealing elements of the thief 
and healing like a cleric?
Nov 30
Brilliant! A Bard is perfect - they get healing (Cure Wounds, Healing Word), 
lots of skills and utility, and can fill that morally-flexible treasure-hunter role 
beautifully. Plus they add battlefield control and support magic that 
complements your damage-focused Warlock.
Let me create your sidekick bard:
Rolling HP for the bard sidekick
SIDEKICK CHARACTER: KESSA "KEYS" DARROW
Race: Half-Elf (darkvision, Fey Ancestry, +2 CHA, +1 DEX, +1 
WIS) Class: Bard 6 (College of Lore) Alignment: Chaotic Neutral
Ability Scores:
*	STR: 8 (-1)
*	DEX: 14 (+2) [13 + 1 half-elf]
*	CON: 14 (+2)
*	INT: 12 (+1)
*	WIS: 13 (+1) [12 + 1 half-elf]
*	CHA: 18 (+4) [16 + 2 half-elf]
HP: 40 AC: 15 (Studded Leather + DEX) Proficiency 
Bonus: +3 Speed: 30 ft.
Proficiencies:
*	Saves: Dexterity, Charisma
*	Skills: Acrobatics, Deception, Insight, Perception, Performance, 
Persuasion, Sleight of Hand, Stealth (expertise in Deception & 
Persuasion)
*	Tools: Thieves' Tools, Lute, Flute, Disguise Kit
*	Weapons: Simple weapons, hand crossbows, longswords, rapiers, 
shortswords
*	Armor: Light armor
Class Features:
*	Bardic Inspiration: d8, 4/short rest (bonus action)
*	Jack of All Trades: +1 to all non-proficient ability checks
*	Song of Rest: d6 extra healing during short rests
*	Cutting Words: Reaction to subtract Bardic Inspiration die from 
enemy attack/ability/damage roll
*	Expertise: Deception, Persuasion (double proficiency)
*	Font of Inspiration: Regain Bardic Inspiration on short rest
*	Countercharm: Action to give advantage vs. frightened/charmed
*	Additional Magical Secrets: 2 extra spells from any class (College of 
Lore)
Spells:
*	Cantrips (3): Vicious Mockery, Mage Hand, Prestidigitation
*	Spells Known (10 + 2 from Magical Secrets):
*	1st: Cure Wounds, Healing Word, Disguise Self, Thunderwave, 
Faerie Fire
*	2nd: Hold Person, Lesser Restoration, Invisibility
*	3rd: Counterspell, Hypnotic Pattern
*	Magical Secrets: Revivify (3rd, Cleric), Pass Without Trace 
(2nd, Ranger/Druid)
*	Spell Slots: 4/3/3
Equipment:
*	Studded leather armor
*	Rapier
*	Hand crossbow + 20 bolts
*	Thieves' tools
*	Lute
*	Dungeoneer's pack
*	Disguise kit
*	Common clothes (travel)
*	Belt pouch with stolen trinkets
BACKSTORY: Kessa "Keys" Darrow is a smooth-talking treasure hunter and 
con artist who tried to pickpocket Johannes at a tavern two years ago. She got 
more than she bargained for - a glimpse of the infernal contract binding him, 
written in hellfire on his very soul.
Instead of running, she saw opportunity. Kessa has always chased forbidden 
knowledge and dangerous artifacts, and helping Johannes acquire "tributes" 
for his patron has led her to ruins and relics she'd never have found otherwise. 
She tells herself it's purely professional, but she's grown genuinely fond of 
Johannes and harbors secret guilt about profiting from his curse.
She's charming, irreverent, and excellent at talking her way out of (or into) 
trouble. Her healing magic comes from a brief apprenticeship with a traveling 
priest she conned, then actually learned from before moving on.
Personality:
*	Quick with a joke or deflection
*	Morally flexible but loyal to those she cares about
*	Secretly believes everyone has an angle
*	Uses humor to cope with darkness
*	Will steal from the rich, lie to the powerful, but never abandons a friend
 
Does Kessa work for you? Any adjustments you'd like to her personality, 
backstory, or mechanics?
Sounds perfect!
Nov 30
Excellent! Johannes and Kessa make a great team - the cursed soldier and the 
charming rogue with a heart of gold(ish).
Let me create a quick character summary document for both of you, then we 
can begin the adventure!
Creating character sheets for Johannes and Kessa
character_sheets.txt
Perfect! Your party is ready. Now let's begin Gates of Firestorm Peak!
 
GATES OF FIRESTORM PEAK - OPENING
The Dragon's Tear comet has returned to the night sky after 27 years, blazing 
crimson across the northern heavens. For weeks now, strange reports have 
filtered south from the remote mountain regions - violent storms, maddened 
wildlife, whispers of gates opening in an ancient peak.
You and Kessa sit in a weathered tavern in the village of Longbridge, three 
days' journey from Firestorm Peak itself. The locals speak in hushed tones 
about the mountain, about celebrations called "Firefestivals" when the comet 
appears, about gates of unbreakable crystal that some claim have opened once 
more.
Kessa leans back in her chair, boots on the table, idly shuffling a deck of cards. 
"So, Johannes," she says quietly, keeping her voice low. "That thing you're 
bound to has been... restless lately. More demanding. I'm guessing it wants 
something from up north?"
She's right. For the past week, you've felt the fiend's hunger growing, its 
whispers more insistent. It wants something powerful, something ancient. 
And every instinct tells you that what it seeks lies within Firestorm Peak.
Before we begin proper, a few questions:
1.	How do you want to handle your pact weapon? What form does 
it typically take when you summon it?
2.	What's your relationship like with Kessa? Friendly banter? Tense 
partnership? Genuine friendship beneath the business arrangement?
3.	Do you have any specific goals beyond placating your 
patron? Are you actively seeking a way to break free?
Pact weapon - the shortsword carried by the company commander; it comes 
when I invoke his name. Genuine friendship - no romantic undertones or 
anything like that. More like bro and sis.... If I can survive this adventure, I 
would like to continue exploring other options with Johannes, so maybe a 
single hint or item that could point toward a level 20 conclusion, so nothing 
official or solving at this point. Does that make sense?
Nov 30
Perfect! That all makes complete sense. The pact weapon having that tragic 
connection to your fallen commander is beautifully dark - every time you 
summon it, you're invoking the name of someone who died because of you. 
Very fitting for a Fiend pact.
I love the sibling dynamic with Kessa - that'll create great banter and genuine 
care without romantic complications.
And yes, absolutely - I'll seed in a hint or clue about something that could lead 
to breaking your pact, maybe a reference to a powerful artifact, ancient ritual, 
or entity that could theoretically free you. Something to plant seeds for a 
longer campaign arc without resolving anything now. This adventure will be 
about survival and the immediate crisis, but you'll find a thread to follow.
 
THE TAVERN - LONGBRIDGE
Kessa's eyes flick to the entrance as an old man shuffles into the tavern. He's 
bundled in furs despite the summer warmth, and his weathered face is drawn 
with worry. The locals immediately quiet as he approaches the bar.
"Elekgong," someone mutters. "The hermit from the mountain pass."
The old man's voice carries across the suddenly silent room. "The gates are 
open again. Twenty-seven years, and they've opened again. I saw four fools go 
in last time - watched them walk right through those crystal gates. Never came 
back. Not a one."
Kessa sits up, boots hitting the floor. She catches your eye with a meaningful 
look.
The bartender slides the old man an ale. "How long have the gates been open, 
Elek?"
"Three days now. Maybe four. Hard to tell time up there - storms like nothing 
natural. Animals gone mad. The very air feels wrong." He takes a long drink. 
"Whatever you young folk are planning, don't go up that mountain. Nothing 
good waits in Firestorm Peak."
Kessa leans toward you, voice barely a whisper. "Four people went in twenty-
seven years ago and never came out. Want to bet one of them was carrying 
something your 'friend' downstairs wants?"
She's probably right. Your patron's hunger has grown acute, focused. It wants 
something specific.
What do you do?
The idea is that each adventure is disconnected from the others other than the 
PC and the hope to finally find the solution, so it is entirely plausible any given 
adventure might have nothing to add...
Nov 30
Ah, perfect! I understand completely now. Each adventure is episodic - 
Johannes and Kessa chase leads, acquire tributes for the fiend, and survive. 
Sometimes there's a hint toward freedom, sometimes not. No guarantee this 
particular adventure will have "the answer" - it's just another desperate 
attempt to stay alive and keep the demon fed.
That's a great structure - keeps the tension high because you never know if this 
quest will be the breakthrough or just another temporary fix.
 
THE TAVERN - LONGBRIDGE
Kessa leans toward you, voice barely a whisper. "Four people went in twenty-
seven years ago and never came out. Want to bet one of them was carrying 
something your 'friend' downstairs wants?"
She's probably right. Your patron's hunger has grown acute, focused. It wants 
something specific. Whether it's related to those four lost souls or something 
else entirely within that ancient elven fortress, you'll only know once you're 
inside.
The old hermit, Elekgong, drains his ale and sets the mug down heavily. 
Through the tavern window, you can see the crimson comet hanging in the 
northern sky like a bleeding wound.
Kessa pulls out a small notebook, flipping to a sketch she's made of the 
mountain from descriptions. "Crystal gates, ancient elven construction, opens 
every time that comet shows up. Sounds like exactly the kind of place where 
powerful artifacts get locked away." She grins. "Also sounds incredibly 
dangerous. My favorite kind of treasure hunt."
She glances at you more seriously. "You feeling it? The pull?"
You are. That familiar, sickening tug of your patron's will, drawing you north 
toward Firestorm Peak like a lodestone.
What do you do? Do you:
*	Approach Elekgong to ask him more questions about the mountain?
*	Head out immediately toward Firestorm Peak (3 days' journey)?
*	Spend time in Longbridge gathering supplies or information?
*	Something else?
Offer to buy Elekgong a drink and pump him for information via Kessa's 
charms
Nov 30
Excellent plan - let Kessa work her magic while you observe.
 
Kessa flashes you a knowing grin and slides out of her seat with practiced 
grace. She saunters up to the bar, signaling the bartender. "Another round for 
our friend Elekgong here - on us." She settles onto the stool beside him, 
turning on that easy charm. "I'm Kessa, and that's my companion Johannes 
over there."
The old hermit eyes her suspiciously at first, but when the fresh ale arrives, his 
expression softens slightly. Kessa leans in conspiratorially. "You've been up 
near Firestorm Peak a long time, haven't you? The locals seem to know you."
Elekgong grunts. "Aye. Got a trapline in the foothills. Been working those 
mountains for forty years, girl."
"Then you must have seen the gates open before - twenty-seven years ago. You 
mentioned four people who went in?" Kessa's tone is perfect - curious but not 
pushy, genuinely interested.
Kessa is making a Persuasion check to get information from 
Elekgong.
Rolling Kessa's Persuasion check
 
Elekgong relaxes considerably under Kessa's attention and the warmth of 
good ale. He nods slowly. "Aye, I saw 'em. Led by a man called himself Nigel - 
Conjurer, he said. Wizard type. Had three others with him: Derek the 
Warcaller, Quaren, and one other I don't recall."
He takes another drink. "Warned 'em, same as I'm warning you now. But 
Nigel, he knew things. Had researched the place, called it the 'Gate of Worlds,' 
said the Elder Elves built it as some kind of stronghold. Had notes about 
tremendous magical power."
Kessa leans in. "What happened to them?"
"Went right in through those crystal gates when they opened. I watched from a 
distance - even from half a mile away, the place felt wrong. The air crackles, 
storms come from nowhere, and the animals..." He shudders. "Birds attacking 
travelers, rabbits gone rabid. The mountain itself seems cursed when those 
gates open."
He fixes Kessa with a hard stare. "Never saw those four come out. When the 
comet disappeared and the gates closed after a month, I went up to check. 
Gates sealed tight - you could see through 'em, but they wouldn't budge. Hard 
as diamond, they are."
Kessa nods sympathetically. "That must have been terrible to witness. Tell me, 
Elekgong - in your forty years, have you ever heard stories about what's 
actually inside the mountain? What the Elder Elves were doing there?"
The old man glances around nervously and lowers his voice. "Rumors only. 
Trappers' tales. Some say the Elves opened a door to... somewhere else. 
Somewhere that shouldn't be opened. When they realized their mistake, they 
fled and sealed it all up. But the sealing wasn't perfect - it's tied to that 
damned comet somehow."
He leans even closer. "And there's worse now. Gray dwarves - Duergar - 
moved into the upper levels about fifteen years back. Mining something they 
call 'nephelium.' Nasty folk. They don't come down to trade, don't bother the 
villages, but any trappers who get too close to their territory disappear."
Johannes, you feel that pull from your patron intensify slightly at 
the mention of the Elder Elves' gate and the Duergar's nephelium. 
Whatever it wants is definitely in that mountain.
What do you want to ask or do next?
Anything hazardous between us and the Gates that stands out?
Nov 30
Good question - let Johannes speak up now.
 
You lean forward from your table, your voice cutting across the tavern's low 
murmur. "Elekgong - anything particularly dangerous between here and the 
gates themselves? Besides the mad animals?"
The old hermit turns to regard you, sizing you up with a trapper's experienced 
eye. He notes the way you carry yourself, the soldier's bearing, and grunts 
approvingly.
"Three days' journey north, like I said. First two days are standard mountain 
travel - steep trails, rocky terrain, but nothing a seasoned traveler can't 
handle. It's the last day that gets bad."
He pulls out a piece of charcoal and sketches roughly on the bar top. "About a 
day out from the peak, the storms start. Unnatural weather - sudden 
downpours, thunder that shakes your bones, then muggy heat that makes you 
feel like your skin's crawling. The air itself feels charged, like lightning's about 
to strike any moment. Your hair stands on end, goosebumps constant."
Kessa grimaces. "Sounds delightful."
"That's when the animals attack too. Not just avoiding you or warning you off - 
actively hunting you. Seen rabbits swarm a man once. Rabbits. And birds 
diving at eyes and faces." He shakes his head. "The closer you get to those 
gates, the worse it gets."
He takes another drink. "And if you're planning to camp near the mountain 
itself? The Duergar sometimes send out night raids. They hate the light, so 
they wait for darkness or heavy clouds. Had a friend who lost his whole camp 
to them - disappeared without a trace."
Elekgong fixes you both with a serious look. "My advice? Don't camp right 
outside the gates. Either make camp further down the mountain and approach 
in daylight, or get inside quick and find somewhere defensible within. The 
threshold between outside and inside is the most dangerous place to linger."
Kessa glances at you. "Charming. So we deal with psychotic woodland 
creatures, freak weather, and gray dwarf ambushes. Anything else we should 
know, Elek?"
The old man considers. "The gates themselves... last time I saw them open, 
they looked like they were made of glass or crystal. Completely transparent - 
you can see right through into the entrance corridor beyond. But when they're 
sealed, nothing gets through. Not picks, not hammers, not magic that I've seen 
tried."
He pauses. "Oh, and one more thing. Keep track of your days. That comet's 
going to be in the sky for about a month, maybe a bit more. When it fades, 
those gates close. If you're still inside..." He doesn't finish the sentence.
What do you want to do?
*	Ask more questions?
*	Prepare to depart for Firestorm Peak?
*	Gather supplies in Longbridge first?
*	Something else?
Let me to an investigation check to see if there's anything else that would 
occur to Johannes.
Nov 30
Good thinking - let's see what Johannes's military and investigative experience 
picks up on.
Rolling Johannes's Investigation check
 
You consider everything Elekgong has said, your military mind analyzing the 
tactical situation. A few things stand out:
What you piece together:
1.	Time Pressure: You have roughly 28 days before the gates close. 
That's important - you can't afford to get bogged down exploring every 
corner of this place. Your patron's pull will guide you, but you need to 
move with purpose.
2.	The Four Who Entered: Nigel was a Conjurer (specialist wizard), 
Derek the Warcaller (sounds like a fighter or warrior), Quaren, and one 
other. They went in 27 years ago and never came out. If they had 
valuable items or knowledge, those might still be in there - either on 
their remains or claimed by whatever killed them.
3.	Duergar Territory: The gray dwarves are mining "nephelium" in the 
upper levels. Your soldier's instinct tells you that means they've fortified 
positions, probably guard posts, and they know the terrain. Fighting 
through their territory could be costly.
4.	Entry Strategy: Elekgong's warning about not camping at the 
threshold makes sense. You'll want to either commit to going in 
immediately or camp well away from the gates.
5.	Supply Consideration: If you're going to be in there for potentially 
days or weeks, you'll need food, water, and a way to rest safely inside 
hostile territory.
You look at Elekgong. "This Nigel - did he or his companions have any notable 
equipment? Magical items, distinctive weapons?"
The old hermit scratches his chin. "Derek had a broadsword, I remember that 
- caught the light something fierce. And one of them had a ring... Nigel maybe? 
Or was it Derek? Memory's foggy after twenty-seven years." He shrugs 
apologetically.
Anything else you want to ask or investigate, or ready to prepare 
for the journey?
Let's get a month's worth of rations and waterand then head out.
Nov 30
Smart - better to be over-prepared.
 
You and Kessa spend the rest of the afternoon gathering supplies in 
Longbridge. The village isn't large, but it services trappers and travelers 
heading into the northern mountains, so the general store is well-stocked.
Purchases:
*	30 days of rations for two people (60 rations total) - 30 gp
*	Waterskins refilled (you each have one, should be sufficient with 
refilling from mountain streams)
*	50 feet of hempen rope - 1 gp (always useful in dungeons)
*	10 torches - 1 sp (backup to any light sources)
*	Healer's kit - 5 gp (Kessa insists, even though she has healing magic)
Total cost: 36 gp, 1 sp (split between you as you prefer)
 
The next morning, you set out at dawn. The crimson comet is still visible in the 
pale morning sky, a bloody smear across the heavens. The road north quickly 
becomes a trail, then little more than a game path winding up into the rocky 
foothills.
Day 1 of Travel:
The weather is clear and cool - perfect traveling conditions. Kessa walks beside 
you, occasionally humming old tavern songs or making observations about the 
landscape. She's in good spirits, clearly energized by the prospect of a proper 
treasure hunt.
"So," she says conversationally as you navigate a steep switchback, "what's 
your gut telling you about this one? Your... patron..." she always hesitates 
slightly on that word, "seems more insistent than usual. Think this is 
something big?"
The pull in your chest is constant now, a directional tug like a fisherman's line 
drawing you north and upward. Whatever the fiend wants, it's definitely in 
Firestorm Peak.
How do you respond? And how are you traveling - cautiously 
(slower but more aware), normal pace, or pushing hard to make 
good time?
Normal pace. There are no secrets, so i fully share anything and everything 
without pretense or subtrefuge
Nov 30
Good - that fits the sibling dynamic perfectly. No secrets between you two.
 
"It's different this time," you admit, adjusting your pack as you climb. "Usually 
there's just... hunger. Vague direction, growing pressure. But this?" You touch 
your chest where you can feel that infernal pull. "It's specific. Focused. Like 
the damn thing knows exactly what it wants and where it is."
Kessa nods, her expression growing more serious. "That's what worries me. 
When it's vague, we have options - grab something powerful, hope it's enough 
to buy you time. But if it wants something specific..." She trails off.
"Then I either get it, or people start dying," you finish flatly.
"Hey." She bumps your shoulder. "We've kept ahead of it for two years. We'll 
figure this out too."
You continue in companionable silence for a while, making good time on the 
trail. The mountains rise around you, pine forests giving way to rockier terrain 
as you gain elevation.
"You know what else bothers me?" Kessa muses. "Four experienced 
adventurers, including a wizard, went in twenty-seven years ago and never 
came out. Either they found what they were looking for and it killed them, or 
they got lost in there, or..." She pauses. "Or they're still in there somehow. 
Trapped, maybe. Or worse."
She glances at you. "If we find this Nigel's remains, or Derek's - you want me 
to try Speak with Dead? Might learn something useful about what's inside."
The day passes without incident. As the sun begins to set, you've 
covered good ground - roughly a third of the journey.
Do you:
*	Make camp here for the night?
*	Push on a bit further in the fading light?
*	Any specific camp preparations or watch arrangements?
Camp for the night. No particular arrangements
Nov 30
CAMP - END OF DAY 1
You find a decent campsite in a small clearing surrounded by pine trees, with a 
rocky outcropping providing some shelter from the wind. Kessa sets about 
gathering firewood while you clear the ground and set up your bedrolls.
"I'll take first watch," Kessa offers as she arranges stones for a fire pit. "You've 
been looking tense all day - that pull from your patron keeping you on edge?"
She's right. The constant directional tug is exhausting in a way that's hard to 
explain.
Soon you have a small fire crackling, and Kessa heats up some of your rations 
while you both settle in. The comet is clearly visible overhead now that night 
has fallen, its crimson glow brighter than you've ever seen it.
"Two more days to the mountain," Kessa says quietly, staring up at it. "Then 
we find out what fresh hell awaits us inside." She grins at her own dark humor. 
"Get some sleep, Johannes. I'll wake you for second watch."
 
The night passes uneventfully. This far from Firestorm Peak, the wildlife 
is still normal, the weather stable. You both get adequate rest.
LONG REST COMPLETED
*	HP fully restored
*	Spell slots recovered
*	Kessa's Bardic Inspiration recharged
*	Your Dark One's Own Luck recharged
 
DAY 2 OF TRAVEL
You wake to Kessa already packing up camp, humming softly. "Morning, 
sunshine. Got some cold rations ready, and the trail ahead looks clear."
The comet is still faintly visible in the dawn sky, and you can feel that pull 
even stronger now as you get closer to your destination.
The second day of travel begins. Same approach - normal pace?
Let's speed up; if we can make it to the Gates with enough light tomorrow, we 
can avoid camping in the open.
Nov 30
Smart tactical thinking - push through and commit to entering rather than 
camping outside where the Duergar might ambush you.
 
"Let's pick up the pace," you say, shouldering your pack. "If we can reach the 
gates tomorrow with daylight to spare, we avoid spending a night in the open 
near the mountain."
Kessa nods approvingly. "Good call. Elekgong's warning about the Duergar 
night raids wasn't exactly comforting. Plus, the sooner we get inside, the 
sooner we can start looking for whatever your 'friend' wants."
DAY 2 - FAST PACE
You push hard throughout the day, taking shorter breaks and maintaining a 
brisk pace even as the terrain gets rockier and steeper. The trail becomes more 
demanding - loose scree, narrow switchbacks, and increasingly sparse 
vegetation.
By mid-afternoon, you notice the temperature starting to fluctuate oddly. One 
moment you're sweating from exertion in muggy heat, the next a cold wind 
cuts through your clothes. The air feels... wrong. Charged.
"We're getting close to the influence zone," Kessa mutters, rubbing her arms 
as goosebumps rise on her skin. "Still a day out and I can already feel it."
Give me a Constitution saving throw for both of you - the forced 
march and strange atmospheric conditions are taxing.
Johannes: Roll 1d20+3 (CON save) I'll roll for Kessa:
Rolling Kessa's CON save for forced march
Go ahead and roll your CON save (1d20+3, DC 12)!
Let's do all rolls online unless I post a roll.
Nov 30
Perfect! That'll keep things moving smoothly. I'll handle all the dice rolling 
unless you specifically want to roll something yourself.
Rolling Johannes's CON save for forced march
 
Both you and Kessa handle the grueling pace well. Your soldier's conditioning 
serves you well, and Kessa's surprising stamina (probably from years of 
running from angry marks) keeps her moving strong.
By the time you make camp that evening, you've covered nearly two full days' 
worth of normal travel. Firestorm Peak looms much closer now - you can 
actually see it in the distance, a dark mountain silhouetted against the crimson 
comet.
CAMP - END OF DAY 2
"Good call on the forced march," Kessa says, stretching her legs by the fire. 
"We should reach the gates by mid-morning tomorrow, maybe earlier. Get in 
while it's still light, find somewhere defensible inside to make camp."
She's organizing her equipment, making sure her thieves' tools are accessible, 
her rapier loose in its sheath. "You feeling it stronger now?"
The pull from your patron is almost painful now - a constant, insistent 
pressure drawing you toward that mountain.
As you prepare for sleep, you notice something odd: the wildlife sounds have 
completely stopped. No birds, no insects, nothing. Just an eerie silence broken 
only by the crackling of your fire.
Kessa notices too. "Yeah. That's not ominous at all," she mutters.
The night passes tensely but without incident. You're still far 
enough from the peak that the truly maddened animals haven't 
reached you.
LONG REST COMPLETED - All resources refreshed
 
DAY 3 - FINAL APPROACH
You wake before dawn. The air crackles with barely contained energy, and 
dark clouds are gathering around Firestorm Peak despite the clear sky 
everywhere else. Thunder rumbles in the distance.
"Here we go," Kessa says quietly, staring at the mountain.
How do you want to approach the final leg? Fast and direct, or 
cautious and careful?
Cautious, we're close enough that the rush yesterday is paying off with more 
time here...
Nov 30
Rolling Perception checks for cautious approach
 
DAY 3 - CAUTIOUS APPROACH TO FIRESTORM PEAK
"Let's take it slow," you say, breaking camp methodically. "Yesterday's pace 
bought us time. Let's use it."
Kessa nods, checking her hand crossbow. "Agreed. No point rushing into 
whatever's waiting up there."
You move carefully up the increasingly barren mountainside. The vegetation 
has given way almost entirely to rock and scree. The temperature swings 
wildly - one moment oppressively hot and humid, the next bitterly cold. Your 
hair stands on end constantly, and the air tastes of copper and ozone.
Your keen perception (18) notices several important things:
About an hour into your climb, you spot movement in the sky - a flock of 
ravens circling unusually, their flight pattern erratic and aggressive. You signal 
Kessa to take cover behind a boulder, and you both wait. The birds pass 
overhead, and you catch glimpses of their eyes - milky white, almost glazed. 
Definitely not right.
"Maddened," Kessa whispers. "Like Elekgong said."
You also notice tracks in the softer soil between rocks - something humanoid 
but smaller, wearing boots. Multiple sets, maybe a day or two old, heading 
down the mountain. The bootprints are deep and evenly spaced, suggesting 
heavily laden travelers moving with military discipline.
"Duergar patrol," you murmur, examining them. "They were carrying 
something heavy. Ore, maybe - that nephelium the old man mentioned."
Around midday, the peak itself comes into full view. The mountain has an 
unnatural symmetry to it, and you can see why it's called Firestorm Peak - the 
rock formations near the summit look almost like frozen flames. About two-
thirds of the way up, you can make out a massive pair of gates set into the 
mountainside, catching the light.
Crystal. Transparent. And unmistakably open.
Thunder crashes overhead despite the cloudless sky elsewhere. A sudden 
downpour lashes at you for thirty seconds, then stops as abruptly as it began, 
leaving you both soaked and disoriented.
"This place is fighting us," Kessa mutters, wringing out her hair.
As you get closer, within perhaps a quarter mile of the gates, you hear it - a 
high-pitched chittering sound, followed by rustling in the rocks ahead.
Roll for Initiative - something is about to attack!
Roll please
Nov 30
Rolling initiative for combat encounter
 
COMBAT - ROUND 1
Two massive scorpions skitter out from behind boulders, each the size of a 
horse! Their exoskeletons gleam wetly, and their compound eyes have that 
same milky, maddened appearance you saw in the ravens. Chittering 
aggressively, they advance on you with clacking pincers and raised stingers.
TURN ORDER:
1.	Johannes (17) ? YOU'RE UP
2.	Scorpion 2 (13)
3.	Scorpion 1 (7)
4.	Kessa (4)
BATTLEFIELD:
*	The scorpions are about 30 feet away, emerging from rocky cover
*	You and Kessa were moving cautiously through scattered boulders
*	Plenty of rocky terrain for cover
*	The crystal gates are visible about a quarter mile up the slope behind the 
scorpions
Giant Scorpions: AC 15, Large beasts
Johannes - What do you do?
Options might include:
*	Cast a spell (you have 2 third-level slots)
*	Use Eldritch Blast (2 beams at 6th level)
*	Summon your pact weapon and prepare for melee
*	Take cover and ready an action
*	Something else?
Eldritch blast, both streams on Scorpion 1
Nov 30
Rolling Eldritch Blast attacks against Scorpion 1
 
JOHANNES'S TURN:
You react instantly, raising your hand and channeling eldritch power. Two 
crackling beams of purple-black energy streak from
Remember agonizing blast and roulette blast on the attack
Nov 30
I did include both! Let me show you in the results:
Agonizing Blast: Each hit did 1d10 + 3 damage (the +3 is your CHA 
modifier from Agonizing Blast)
*	Beam 1: 2 + 3 = 5 damage
*	Beam 2: 6 + 3 = 9 damage
Repelling Blast: Both hits pushed the scorpion back 10 feet each
*	Total pushback: 20 feet
Both invocations are working! The scorpion took 14 force damage and got 
blasted 20 feet backward.
 
Continuing the combat:
You raise your hand and channel eldritch power. Two crackling beams of 
purple-black energy streak toward the first scorpion. Both blasts strike true - 
the first catches it in the thorax, the second slams into its head. The force of 
the impact sends the massive creature skittering backward 20 feet, chittering 
in pain and confusion.
Scorpion 1: Damaged (14 damage), pushed back 40 feet total from 
starting position
 
SCORPION 2'S TURN:
The second scorpion, undeterred by its companion's fate, scuttles forward 
with frightening speed. It closes the distance to you, pincers snapping!
Rolling Scorpion 2's attacks on Johannes
 
The scorpion's first claw snaps at you but you dodge aside. The second pincer 
catches you solidly, clamping down on your arm!
Johannes takes 7 bludgeoning damage (46/53 HP 
remaining) Johannes is GRAPPLED by Scorpion 2 (You can use an 
action to try to escape with a DC 12 STR or DEX check, or Misty Step out)
The creature's tail curves overhead menacingly, stinger dripping venom...
 
SCORPION 1'S TURN:
Still reeling from your eldritch blasts, the first scorpion scrambles back toward 
the fight, closing some of the distance but not quite able to reach anyone this 
turn.
 
KESSA'S TURN:
"Johannes!" Kessa shouts, seeing you caught in the scorpion's grip. She moves 
to get a clear shot and raises her hand crossbow.
Rolling Kessa's attack
Her bolt clangs off the scorpion's chitinous armor harmlessly.
"Damn it!" she curses, already reloading.
 
END OF ROUND 1
STATUS:
*	Johannes: 46/53 HP, GRAPPLED by Scorpion 2
*	Kessa: 40/40 HP
*	Scorpion 1: Moderately wounded, 40 feet away
*	Scorpion 2: Uninjured, grappling Johannes
 
ROUND 2 - JOHANNES'S TURN
You're caught in the scorpion's massive pincer. What do you do?
Options:
*	Try to escape the grapple (STR or DEX check DC 12)
*	Cast Misty Step (bonus action) to teleport out of the grapple
*	Cast Hex on one of the scorpions then attack
*	Attack with Eldritch Blast (at disadvantage while grappled in melee)
*	Summon your pact weapon and attack in melee
*	Cast another spell
*	Something else?
Misty Step, then Eldritch Blast Scorpion 1 if in range, Scorpion 2 if not
Nov 30
Rolling Johannes's Misty Step and Eldritch Blast
 
JOHANNES'S TURN:
You invoke the fiendish power flowing through your veins. With a word of 
dark magic, you vanish in a puff of sulfurous smoke and reappear 30 feet 
away, free of the scorpion's grip!
Without hesitation, you unleash another pair of eldritch blasts. Both beams 
slam into Scorpion 2, the force blasting it backward 20 feet and leaving 
smoking scorch marks on its carapace.
Scorpion 2: Damaged (17 damage), pushed back Johannes: 1/2 
spell slots remaining
 
SCORPION 2'S TURN:
Angered and wounded, the scorpion scuttles forward again, trying to close 
distance with you!
Rolling Scorpion 2's attacks
The scorpion lunges at you, pincers snapping wildly, but you dodge both 
attacks! The creature's movements are becoming more erratic and desperate.
 
SCORPION 1'S TURN:
The first scorpion finally closes distance, but this time it goes after the easier 
target - Kessa!
Rolling Scorpion 1's attacks on Kessa
Kessa ducks and weaves, her acrobatic training keeping her just out of reach of 
the snapping claws!
"Is that the best you've got?!" she shouts defiantly.
 
KESSA'S TURN:
She backs up a few steps to get some distance and fires her hand crossbow 
again at Scorpion 1.
Rolling Kessa's attack
Her bolt finds a weak spot between the scorpion's armor plates, sinking deep!
Scorpion 1: Heavily wounded (21 total damage)
 
END OF ROUND 2
STATUS:
*	Johannes: 46/53 HP, 1/2 spell slots
*	Kessa: 40/40 HP
*	Scorpion 1: Heavily wounded (21 damage)
*	Scorpion 2: Moderately wounded (17 damage)
 
ROUND 3 - JOHANNES'S TURN
Both scorpions are bloodied and looking worse for wear. What do you do?
Both streams at Scorpion 1
Nov 30
Rolling Eldritch Blast attacks against Scorpion 1
 
JOHANNES'S TURN:
You raise your hand to finish off the wounded scorpion, but something goes 
wrong! The first blast goes wide, crackling harmlessly into a boulder. The 
second fizzles completely, the eldritch energy dissipating before it even forms 
properly.
The wounded scorpion chitters aggressively, still very much alive.
 
SCORPION 2'S TURN:
The healthier scorpion presses its attack on you!
Rolling Scorpion 2's attacks
 
CRITICAL MOMENT!
The scorpion's luck turns viciously! Both claws catch you solidly, one clamping 
around your torso, the other your leg. Then its stinger arcs overhead 
and SLAMS into your shoulder with devastating force!
Johannes takes 28 damage (18/53 HP remaining) Johannes is 
GRAPPLED
You feel the venom burning through your veins. Your patron's dark gift surges 
- make a Constitution saving throw (DC 12) with ADVANTAGE 
thanks to War Caster!
Rolling Constitution save with advantage
 
JOHANNES IS DOWN!
The venom hits you like liquid fire. Your vision tunnels, your legs give out, and 
you collapse in the scorpion's grip, consciousness fading...
Johannes: 0 HP, UNCONSCIOUS, making death saves
"JOHANNES!" Kessa screams.
 
SCORPION 1'S TURN:
The wounded scorpion, seeing you fall, turns its attention fully to Kessa and 
attacks!
Rolling Scorpion 1's attacks on Kessa
Kessa dodges frantically, staying just ahead of the snapping claws!
 
KESSA'S TURN:
She has seconds to decide - save Johannes or fight the scorpions. There's no 
hesitation.
"Hold on!" she shouts, casting Healing Word at you!
Rolling Kessa's Healing Word and attack
 
Golden light flares as Kessa's magic washes over you! Your eyes snap open - 
you're alive, barely, still caught in the scorpion's grip but conscious.
Her crossbow bolt goes wide in her panic.
 
END OF ROUND 3
STATUS:
*	Johannes: 6/53 HP, GRAPPLED by Scorpion 2
*	Kessa: 40/40 HP, 1st level spell slot used
*	Scorpion 1: Heavily wounded (21 damage)
*	Scorpion 2: Moderately wounded (17 damage), grappling Johannes
 
ROUND 4 - JOHANNES'S TURN
You're barely conscious, held in the scorpion's crushing grip. The venom still 
burns in your veins. What do you do?
Options:
*	Misty Step away (bonus action, your last spell slot!)
*	Try to escape grapple (action, DC 12 STR or DEX check)
*	Attack from grappled position (disadvantage on Eldritch Blast)
*	Cast Hellish Rebuke as a reaction if hit again
*	Something else?
Must step and both streams at Scorpion 2
Nov 30
Rolling Johannes's Misty Step and Eldritch Blast
 
JOHANNES'S TURN:
Gritting your teeth through the pain, you invoke your last spell. Sulfurous 
smoke erupts around you as you teleport 30 feet away, collapsing to one knee 
as you reappear.
You raise a trembling hand and fire off two more eldritch blasts, but the 
venom and exhaustion take their toll - both beams go wide, sizzling harmlessly 
against the rocks.
Johannes: OUT OF SPELL SLOTS!
 
SCORPION 2'S TURN:
The larger scorpion, angered at losing its prey, scuttles toward you with 
terrifying speed!
Rolling Scorpion 2's attacks
One claw catches your shoulder, tearing cloth and flesh, but you stumble 
backward avoiding the second strike!
Johannes: 3/53 HP - hanging on by a thread
 
SCORPION 1'S TURN:
The wounded scorpion continues attacking Kessa!
Rolling Scorpion 1's attacks on Kessa
A claw smashes into Kessa's side, making her gasp in pain!
Kessa: 32/40 HP
 
KESSA'S TURN:
She's breathing hard, eyes flicking between you (barely standing) and the two 
scorpions. She makes a decision.
"Time to even the odds!" she shouts, casting Thunderwave!
Rolling Kessa's Thunderwave
 
KESSA'S THUNDERWAVE!
A deafening boom of thunder erupts from Kessa's outstretched hands! The 
shockwave slams into both scorpions, cracking their carapaces and sending 
them skittering backward 10 feet!
Both creatures are looking badly hurt now, their movements sluggish and 
erratic.
Scorpion 1: 32 damage total - critically wounded Scorpion 2: 28 
damage total - badly wounded
 
END OF ROUND 4
STATUS:
*	Johannes: 3/53 HP, 0/2 spell slots
*	Kessa: 32/40 HP, two 1st level slots used (2 remaining)
*	Scorpion 1: Critically wounded (32 damage)
*	Scorpion 2: Badly wounded (28 damage)
 
ROUND 5 - JOHANNES'S TURN
You're barely standing, out of spell slots, but you can still fire Eldritch Blast at 
will. What do you do?
Both streams in Scorpion 1
Nov 30
Rolling Eldritch Blast attacks against Scorpion 1
 
JOHANNES'S TURN:
Drawing on the last reserves of your strength, you steady your aim and fire. 
The first blast punches through the scorpion's already-cracked carapace, 
making it stagger. The second beam strikes it squarely in the head with a 
sickening crack.
The massive creature convulses once, then collapses, legs curling inward as it 
dies.
SCORPION 1 DESTROYED!
As the creature falls, you feel a familiar dark surge. Your patron's blessing 
activates automatically!
Calculating Dark One's Blessing temp HP
A surge of dark energy flows through you as your fiendish patron rewards you 
for the kill. Black-red energy crackles around your body, bolstering you with 
unholy vitality!
Johannes: 3/53 HP + 9 temporary HP
 
SCORPION 2'S TURN:
The remaining scorpion, now alone and badly wounded, attacks you in a 
frenzy!
Rolling Scorpion 2's attacks
One claw glances off you, but the second catches you solidly. The dark energy 
around you absorbs the impact!
Johannes: 3/53 HP + 6 temp HP
 
KESSA'S TURN:
"One more to go!" Kessa shouts, firing her crossbow at the last scorpion!
Rolling Kessa's attack
Her crossbow bolt flies wildly off-target in her haste!
"Damn it!" she swears, fumbling to reload.
 
END OF ROUND 5
STATUS:
*	Johannes: 3/53 HP + 6 temp HP
*	Kessa: 32/40 HP
*	Scorpion 1: DEAD
*	Scorpion 2: Badly wounded (28 damage)
 
ROUND 6 - JOHANNES'S TURN
One scorpion left, badly wounded. Finish it!
What do you do?
Finish it
Nov 30
Rolling final Eldritch Blast to finish Scorpion 2
Your first blast goes wide, but you steady yourself and the second beam strikes 
true, blasting a chunk out of the scorpion's carapace. It's critically wounded 
now but still standing!
Scorpion 2: 40/52 HP - near death
 
SCORPION 2'S TURN:
The dying creature makes one last desperate attack!
Rolling Scorpion 2's final attacks
 
JOHANNES DOWN AGAIN!
Both claws find their mark! The first cracks through your dark energy shield, 
the second slams into your ribs. You feel something break, and the world goes 
dark...
Johannes: UNCONSCIOUS, making death saves
"JOHANNES!" Kessa screams again.
 
KESSA'S TURN - DESPERATE
She doesn't hesitate. Bonus action Healing Word, then her crossbow!
Rolling Kessa's emergency healing and attack
Golden light floods through you again, dragging you back from the brink!
Kessa's bolt strikes the scorpion, but it's still standing - barely, but still alive!
Johannes: 7/53 HP Scorpion 2: 43/52 HP - one good hit from death
 
ROUND 7 - JOHANNES'S TURN
You open your eyes, gasping. The scorpion looms above you, dying but 
dangerous. End this!
Both beams at Scorpion 2?
Quick question, does rolling significantly but into token usage?
Nov 30
Good question! Rolling dice does use some tokens, but it's pretty minimal - 
maybe 200-400 tokens per combat round depending on complexity. The 
narrative text and game state tracking uses far more.
If you'd like, I can streamline the rolls to be more compact (just show results 
without the detailed breakdown), or we can keep the current format since we 
have plenty of tokens left (89,230 remaining out of 190,000).
What's your preference? And yes - finish off that scorpion with both beams?
No, the descriptions are most of the fun, just wanted to check.
Nov 30
Absolutely! The detailed descriptions are what makes it exciting. We're doing 
fine on tokens - plenty of room left. Let's finish this scorpion!
Rolling final Eldritch Blast to finish the last scorpion
 
JOHANNES - THE KILLING BLOW
You push yourself up on one elbow, blood streaming from multiple wounds. 
Your hand trembles as you raise it one more time.
The first blast is perfect - a critical strike that punches straight through the 
scorpion's head with a thunderous CRACK! The creature staggers, already 
dying.
The second beam slams into its thorax, and the massive beast explodes in a 
shower of chitin and ichor, its body blasted backward by the force.
As the scorpion's corpse hits the ground, that familiar dark surge flows 
through you again. The fiendish energy wraps around your broken body like a 
cold embrace, not healing but sustaining.
COMBAT COMPLETE!
 
AFTERMATH
Kessa runs over to you, helping you sit up against a boulder. "By all the gods, 
Johannes... I thought we were done for. Twice!"
You're both battered, breathing hard, covered in scorpion gore. The air still 
crackles with unnatural energy, and the crystal gates of Firestorm Peak gleam 
in the distance, maybe a quarter mile up the slope.
"We haven't even gotten inside yet," Kessa says, following your gaze. She pulls 
out a waterskin and takes a long drink before offering it to you. "At this rate, 
we'll be dead before we find whatever your patron wants."
CURRENT STATUS:
*	Johannes: 7/53 HP + 9 temp HP, 0/2 spell slots
*	Kessa: 32/40 HP, 2/4 first-level spell slots remaining
What do you want to do?
*	Take a short rest here to recover (you'll regain spell slots, Kessa can use 
Song of Rest)
*	Push on to the gates immediately
*	Search the scorpion corpses
*	Something else?
Search the corpses, then push for the entrance. No sense trying to rest out in 
the open.
Nov 30
Smart - no point resting where more maddened creatures or Duergar patrols 
could find you.
 
SEARCHING THE SCORPION CORPSES
You and Kessa approach the destroyed scorpions carefully. The first one you 
blasted is mostly intact despite the force damage. The second is... messier.
Rolling Investigation/Perception to search the scorpions
 
Your trained eye picks out several useful items. Working together, you 
carefully extract two intact venom sacs - the poison that nearly killed you 
could be useful later, either as a weapon coating or potentially traded.
"These chitin plates are incredibly hard," Kessa observes, tapping one with her 
dagger. "Not quite as strong as the nephelium Elekgong mentioned, but close. 
Could reinforce armor if we had time."
Then you notice something in the second scorpion's maw - the one you 
obliterated. Reaching carefully past the mandibles, you pull out a small object 
crusted with dried gore.
It's a ring. Silver, with strange runes etched around the band.
"Well, well," Kessa murmurs, cleaning it off with a cloth. "Looks like these 
scorpions have been snacking on previous adventurers. This could be from 
Nigel's group - twenty-seven years is long enough for bones to be digested, but 
not silver."
She hands it to you. The runes are in a script you recognize as Elvish, though 
you can't read them. There's a faint magical aura to it.
ITEMS ACQUIRED:
*	2 doses of Giant Scorpion Venom (can coat weapon, DC 12 CON save or 
4d10 poison, half on save)
*	Quality Chitin Plates (could be used by an armorer)
*	Silver Ring with Elvish Runes (magical, unidentified)
"We can figure out what the ring does once we're somewhere safe," Kessa says, 
glancing up at the gates. "Come on. Let's get inside before something else 
decides to attack."
 
APPROACHING THE GATES
You climb the final quarter mile. The weather becomes increasingly violent - 
sudden gusts of wind, a brief hailstorm, then oppressive heat. Your hair stands 
completely on end now, and the air tastes metallic.
The gates of Firestorm Peak loom before you.
They're magnificent and terrible. Two massive doors, each easily twenty feet 
tall and ten feet wide, made of perfectly transparent crystal. You can see 
straight through them into an entrance corridor beyond. The crystal has an 
almost liquid quality to it, catching and bending light in unnatural ways.
The gates stand wide open, as Elekgong said they would. Around their frame, 
you can see intricate Elvish runes carved into the mountain itself, pulsing with 
a faint blue light.
Through the crystal, you can see the corridor extends about 120 feet before 
opening into what looks like a larger chamber.
Kessa stands beside you, staring. "The Elder Elves built this. Gods know what 
they were trying to contain... or summon."
You feel your patron's pull intensify dramatically. Whatever it wants is 
definitely inside.
What do you do?
*	Enter immediately
*	Examine the gates/runes more closely first
*	Take any precautions before entering
*	Something else?
In out current state, finding someplace safe to rest is priority #2. Let's do a 
wick arcana check in the runs, then get inside.
Nov 30
Rolling Arcana check to examine the gate runes
 
EXAMINING THE RUNES
You move closer to study the elaborate runes carved around the gate frame. 
Your arcane training helps you parse some of the meaning, though the full 
complexity is beyond you in your current exhausted state.
What you discern:
The runes are a Ritual of Closing - extremely powerful magic designed to 
seal the gates. The inscription roughly translates to: "By star's return, the seal 
breaks. By star's departure, the seal holds. Let no mortal hand undo what 
Elder wisdom wrought."
The runes are specifically keyed to the Dragon's Tear comet. When the comet 
appears in the sky, the gates open. When it vanishes, the gates close and 
become impenetrable. The magic is so potent that nothing you know of could 
force them open or closed outside of the comet's cycle.
You also notice something troubling - faint scorch marks and scratch marks 
around the inner edges of the gate frame, as if something has been trying to 
claw its way out from the inside.
"So we have about 27 days before these gates seal with us inside," Kessa says 
grimly, reading over your shoulder. "No pressure."
She touches the crystal cautiously. "It's warm. Shouldn't crystal be cool to the 
touch?"
You notice she's right - the gates radiate a faint warmth, and there's the 
slightest vibration, like they're humming at a frequency just below hearing.
"Let's get inside and find somewhere to barricade ourselves," you say. Your 
wounds are really starting to hurt now that the adrenaline is wearing off.
 
ENTERING FIRESTORM PEAK
You step through the crystal gates.
The moment you cross the threshold, the oppressive atmospheric pressure 
lessens slightly. The constant hair-raising static reduces, though doesn't 
disappear entirely. The corridor ahead is carved from solid stone, clearly 
worked by skilled hands - the walls are smooth, the ceiling a perfect arch.
The corridor extends 120 feet ahead, dimly lit by a faint phosphorescent glow 
from the stone itself. At the far end, you can see it opens into a larger chamber.
The air inside is stale but breathable, with an odd metallic tang.
"Well," Kessa whispers, hand on her rapier, "we're in. Now let's hope we can 
find a defensible room before something finds us."
You advance down the entry corridor. As you near the end, what do 
you see?
Searched project for "entry corridor room 2a first chamber gates firestorm 
peak"
1 result
 
ROOM 2A - THE AMBUSH ROOM
As you reach the end of the corridor, it opens into a larger chamber. The 
phosphorescent glow continues here, giving you dim visibility.
The chamber is roughly 40 feet wide and extends northward. About 20 feet 
into the room, you see a wall blocking the continuation of the corridor - clearly 
not part of the original construction. It's crude stonework, about 10 feet tall, 
with what look like sharpened spikes or barbs protruding from the top.
The room feels... wrong. Too quiet. Your patron's pull tugs you forward, but 
your soldier's instincts scream ambush.
Rolling Perception to detect the Duergar ambush
 
Kessa grabs your arm suddenly, pulling you back. "Wait," she hisses, eyes 
narrowed. "Something's not right. The air... it's moving wrong. Like there's 
breathing."
You both freeze, listening. She's right - there's an almost imperceptible sound 
of slow, controlled breathing coming from behind the wall. Multiple sources.
"Invisible," Kessa whispers. "Behind the wall. Waiting for us to try climbing 
it."
Your eyes adjust further, and you notice faint disturbances in the air - heat 
shimmer from large bodies. Four of them, you think. Massive - at least 16 feet 
tall based on the heat patterns. They're standing perfectly still, enormous 
polearms ready.
"Duergar," you murmur. "Enlarged. The bastards set up a welcoming 
committee."
Kessa nods grimly. "We're exhausted, nearly out of resources, and they're 
fresh and ready. If we try to fight through here..."
She doesn't finish the sentence. You both know the odds.
"We need a defensible place to rest before we can tackle this," she says. "But 
where? We can't go back outside - those scorpions proved that. And this is 
clearly the main route forward."
What do you do?
*	Try to fight through despite your condition (4 enlarged invisible Duergar 
with reach weapons)
*	Look for an alternative route (the adventure mentions bolt-holes and 
side passages)
*	Try to negotiate/bluff your way past
*	Use magic creatively to bypass or neutralize the ambush
*	Something else?
Alternate entry points
Nov 30
Smart - no point throwing yourselves at a prepared ambush when you're this 
beat up.
 
SEARCHING FOR ALTERNATE ROUTES
You and Kessa back carefully away from the ambush chamber, retreating to 
the entry corridor.
"There has to be another way," Kessa says quietly. "This place is huge - the 
Duergar can't have guards on every passage. Let's look for side tunnels, 
maintenance shafts, anything."
Rolling to search for alternate entry points
 
EXCELLENT SUCCESS!
Your trained military eye spots what Kessa missed - faint tool marks along the 
northern wall of the entry corridor, about 30 feet back from the ambush 
chamber. They're subtle, almost invisible in the dim phosphorescent light, but 
they're there.
Running your hands along the stone, you find it - a seam. A concealed door, 
cleverly fitted to blend with the natural rock.
"Kessa, here," you whisper.
She pulls out her thieves' tools and examines the mechanism. "No lock, just a 
hidden catch. Probably a bolt-hole the Duergar use to access their barracks 
without going through the main chamber."
With a soft click, the door swings inward, revealing a narrow tunnel - only 
about 4 feet tall and 3 feet wide. Perfect for Duergar-sized creatures, cramped 
for you.
"We'll have to crouch-walk," Kessa says, peering into the darkness. "But it 
leads somewhere. I can feel air movement."
The tunnel is unlit, carved from raw stone. It heads roughly northeast, curving 
out of sight.
Do you:
*	Enter the bolt-hole tunnel (will need light source or darkvision)
*	Continue searching for other options
*	Reconsider the frontal approach
Note: If you enter, what's your light situation?
*	Kessa can cast Dancing Lights or use a torch
*	You could use a torch
*	Risk moving in darkness (Kessa has no darkvision, you don't either as 
human)
Devil's sight?
Nov 30
Ah, excellent point! Let me check your Devil's Sight invocation.
Devil's Sight: You can see normally in darkness (magical and nonmagical) to 
120 feet.
So YOU can see perfectly in the darkness! However, Kessa doesn't have 
darkvision - she's half-elf, which gives her darkvision 60 feet in dim light, but 
this tunnel is pitch black.
Options:
1.	You lead, Kessa follows closely - You can see and guide her 
verbally, she keeps a hand on your shoulder. Stealthy but slower.
2.	Kessa uses Dancing Lights cantrip - Gives light for both of you, but 
risks alerting enemies. The lights can be positioned ahead to scout.
3.	Kessa uses a torch - Simple solution, but definitely gives away your 
position.
4.	You use Mage Hand to carry a torch ahead - Clever! Light source 
is 30 feet ahead of you, you can see with Devil's Sight, Kessa can see by 
torchlight.
What's your preference?
Keep it dark. I lead, Kessa follows
Nov 30
Rolling Stealth for moving through the dark tunnel
 
MOVING THROUGH THE BOLT-HOLE
"Stay dark," you whisper. "I can see. Keep your hand on my shoulder and 
follow exactly where I step."
Kessa nods, trusting you, and places her hand on your shoulder blade.
You enter the cramped tunnel, hunched over, your Devil's Sight cutting 
through the absolute darkness like it's noon. The tunnel is rough-hewn, tool 
marks visible on the walls - Duergar work, functional but crude.
About 20 feet in, disaster strikes. In your exhausted, wounded state, you 
misjudge a step. Your boot scrapes loudly against loose stone, and you stumble 
slightly. The sound echoes down the tunnel.
Behind you, Kessa - moving blind despite her best efforts - bumps into you, 
and her crossbow clatters against the stone wall.
CLANK
You both freeze, hearts pounding.
Silence. Then, from somewhere ahead in the darkness, you hear it - a grunt of 
surprise, then rapid Dwarvish speech. Harsh, guttural syllables you don't 
understand, but the tone is clear: alert.
Your Devil's Sight shows you the tunnel ahead continues another 30 feet 
before branching. But now you can see movement - shadows shifting in a 
chamber beyond.
"They heard us," Kessa whispers, her hand tightening on your shoulder. "How 
many?"
Peering ahead, you see the tunnel opens into what looks like a small barracks 
room. Through the opening, you can make out bunks, equipment... and at 
least two Duergar scrambling for weapons.
What do you do?
*	Rush forward and attack before they're fully ready
*	Retreat back to the entry corridor
*	Hold position and prepare to defend the narrow tunnel (tactical 
advantage - they can only come at you one at a time)
*	Try to bluff in Common that you're lost explorers
*	Something else?
Current Status:
*	Johannes: 7/53 HP + 9 temp HP, 0/2 spell slots
*	Kessa: 32/40 HP, 2/4 first-level spell slots
Hold position and eldritch blast
Nov 30
Rolling Eldritch Blast in the tunnel chokepoint
And have Kressa ready dancing light as a surprise when the dwarves approach
Nov 30
Excellent tactical thinking! Blind them right when they enter the tunnel.
 
JOHANNES & KESSA - DEFENSIVE POSITION
"Hold here," you growl, bracing yourself in the narrow tunnel. Your first 
eldritch blast goes wild in the cramped space, crackling against the stone wall. 
The second streaks true, slamming into the first Duergar and blasting him 
backward into the barracks room.
He staggers but stays on his feet, blood streaming from his chest. Both gray 
dwarves are now grabbing weapons - picks and hammers.
"Kessa, ready Dancing Lights," you whisper. "Wait until they're right on us, 
then blind them."
"Got it," she murmurs, her fingers already weaving the cantrip's pattern, 
holding the magic ready to release.
The wounded Duergar snarls something in Dwarvish, and both of them start 
advancing toward the tunnel entrance. They're moving cautiously - they know 
the tunnel is a chokepoint that favors you.
Through your Devil's Sight, you watch them approach. They're about 15 feet 
from the tunnel entrance now... 10 feet... 5 feet...
The first Duergar steps into the tunnel opening, his eyes struggling in the pitch 
darkness.
"NOW!" you shout.
Kessa's Dancing Lights surprise and rolling initiative
 
COMBAT - ROUND 1
Four brilliant orbs of light suddenly blaze into existence right in the Duergar's 
faces! They cry out, recoiling, hands thrown up to shield their eyes. Both are 
completely blinded by the sudden illumination!
TURN ORDER:
1.	Kessa (17) ? UP
2.	Duergar 2 (17) - BLINDED
3.	Johannes (15)
4.	Duergar 1 (4) - BLINDED, wounded (6 damage)
KESSA'S TURN:
She's already got her hand crossbow up. "One shot, make it count," she 
mutters, aiming at the wounded Duergar staggering in the tunnel entrance!
Rolling Kessa's attack with advantage
 
KESSA - PERFECT SHOT!
THUNK!
Kessa's bolt takes the wounded, blinded Duergar right through the throat. He 
gurgles once, drops his pick, and collapses in the tunnel entrance!
"One down!" she shouts, already reloading.
 
DUERGAR 2'S TURN:
The second gray dwarf, still blinded and disoriented, stumbles forward over 
his companion's body into the tunnel. He swings his warhammer blindly!
Rolling blinded Duergar's attack
The Duergar swings wildly, the warhammer clanging off the stone walls with a 
shower of sparks! He can't see a damn thing!
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
One down, one blinded and helpless. Finish him!
Rolling Eldritch Blast with advantage
 
JOHANNES - EXECUTION
Both of your eldritch blasts strike true! The first catches the blinded Duergar 
in the chest, spinning him around. The second slams into his back, blasting 
him forward. He crashes face-first into the tunnel wall and slides down, dead.
COMBAT COMPLETE - VICTORY!
Kessa's dancing lights fade, leaving you both in darkness again - though your 
Devil's Sight shows the aftermath clearly. Two dead Duergar in the cramped 
tunnel, their blood pooling on the stone.
"Nice work," Kessa breathes, still tense. "But that wasn't quiet. If there are 
more in the barracks ahead..."
She's right. You listen carefully. Silence from the chamber beyond, but that 
doesn't mean it's empty.
What do you do?
*	Advance cautiously into the barracks room (might be more Duergar, 
might be empty)
*	Search the two dead Duergar quickly
*	Retreat and try to find yet another route
*	Push forward to find a room to barricade and rest
Remember: You're at 7/53 HP + 9 temp, Kessa at 32/40 HP, and 
you desperately need to rest
Search the dwarves then look for a hiding spot
Nov 30
Rolling loot from the dead Duergar
 
SEARCHING THE BODIES
Working quickly, you strip the Duergar of valuables - 39 silver pieces, 19 gold, 
and 3 small rough-cut gems. The weapons are serviceable but nothing special. 
Their armor is too small for either of you, though Kessa pockets one of the 
picks.
"Might be useful for prying open doors," she mutters.
You take a swig from one of their waterskins - it's weak ale with a bitter fungal 
aftertaste, but it's wet. You offer it to Kessa, who grimaces but drinks.
 
SEARCHING FOR A HIDING SPOT
You advance cautiously into the barracks room beyond. Your Devil's Sight 
reveals:
Examining the barracks for hiding spots
 
THE BARRACKS ROOM
The chamber is a typical Duergar sleeping quarters - functional, cramped, 
smelling of stone dust and stale sweat. Ten small cots line the walls, 
footlockers scattered about containing little of value.
Most importantly, it's currently empty except for the two you just killed.
As you examine the northern wall, you find another secret door - these gray 
dwarves have escape routes everywhere.
"Smart," Kessa murmurs, tracing the hidden seam. "Multiple exits. We could 
use this if we get cornered."
You drag the two Duergar bodies into the room and push some cots against 
the northern door as a makeshift barricade. It won't stop a determined assault, 
but it'll give you warning.
Kessa eyes the small cots dubiously. "We're not going to fit on these."
"Floor it is," you say, already feeling the exhaustion pulling at you. "We need a 
short rest minimum. Get our spell slots back, patch ourselves up."
"What about patrols?" she asks, though she's already sitting down heavily 
against the wall.
"We have maybe 2-4 hours before someone checks on these two. Short rest 
takes an hour. It's a risk, but we don't have a choice."
Do you want to:
*	Take a short rest here (1 hour, regain spell slots, use Hit Dice to heal)
*	Push on through the secret passage first to find somewhere deeper/safer
*	Set watches and rest in shifts
If you rest, how do you want to heal?
*	You have Hit Dice (1d8 + CON mod each, you have 6 available)
*	Kessa can use Song of Rest for an extra d6
*	Kessa could use spell slots to heal with Cure Wounds
Push forward first and our some distance between us and the bodies before 
sleeping
Nov 30
Smart - don't sleep next to the crime scene. Let's move deeper before they find 
the bodies.
 
MOVING DEEPER INTO THE COMPLEX
"Good call," Kessa says, pushing herself to her feet with a grimace. "Let's put 
some distance between us and these bodies. When they find them, I don't 
want to be in the adjacent room."
You open the secret door in the northern wall. Another narrow passage, 
similar to the bolt-hole but curving east. Your Devil's Sight pierces the 
darkness ahead.
"Same as before," you tell Kessa. "Hand on my shoulder, stay quiet."
Rolling stealth and exploration
 
EXCELLENT DISCOVERY!
Moving with extreme care, you navigate the winding passages. Your earlier 
clumsiness forgotten, you guide Kessa perfectly through the darkness. She 
follows with practiced silence, trusting your directions completely.
After about ten minutes of careful movement, you spot something - a small 
side chamber, easily missed. It's set back from the main passage behind a 
natural rock formation that creates a blind corner.
Inside, your Devil's Sight reveals:
A HIDDEN STORAGE ROOM
*	Size: 15 ft x 15 ft, 8 ft ceiling
*	Contents: Old mining equipment, broken picks, empty crates
*	Entrances: Single narrow opening (easily watched/barricaded)
*	Condition: Dusty, clearly unused for months or years
*	Defensibility: EXCELLENT - off the main routes, easy to miss, single 
chokepoint
"This is perfect," you whisper to Kessa as you guide her inside. "Storage room, 
forgotten, off the beaten path."
She pulls out a small candle from her pack and lights it, keeping it shielded. 
The flickering light reveals the dusty chamber.
"How'd you find this?" she asks, impressed.
"Military training. Always look for the overlooked spaces." You're already 
dragging an old crate across the entrance. "We can stack these to block the 
opening, leave a gap we can watch through."
Together, you create a makeshift barricade - not impenetrable, but enough to 
give warning and force attackers into a fatal funnel.
Kessa slumps against the back wall, finally letting her guard down. 
"Okay. Now we rest. Gods, I'm exhausted."
You're swaying on your feet, the adrenaline finally wearing off. Your wounds 
throb, your head pounds, and you can barely keep your eyes open.
 
SHORT REST
You have 1 hour to recover in relative safety.
HEALING OPTIONS:
Johannes:
*	Current: 7/53 HP (+ 9 temp HP that will fade)
*	Can spend Hit Dice: 6d8 available, each heals 1d8+3
*	Kessa's Song of Rest: Add +1d6 to ONE Hit Die roll
Kessa:
*	Current: 32/40 HP
*	Can spend Hit Dice: 6d8 available, each heals 1d8+2
*	Can cast Cure Wounds (1st level, heals 1d8+4) - has 2 spell slots left
*	Song of Rest: Adds +1d6 to one Hit Die
How many Hit Dice do you each want to spend?
3 HD for Johannes, 1 for kressa
Nov 30
Rolling healing during short rest
 
ONE HOUR LATER
You wake from a light, troubled sleep. Kessa kept first watch, now she's gently 
shaking your shoulder.
"Your turn," she whispers. "Nothing's come by. I think we're safe for now."
You sit up, wincing. Your wounds have closed somewhat - magical healing and 
natural recovery working together. You're still battered (27/53 HP), but you're 
functional again. More importantly, you can feel your connection to your 
patron restored, your spell slots recharged.
Kessa looks much better - fully healed and alert, though still weary. She settles 
down to sleep while you take the second watch.
The hour passes quietly. No sounds of alarm, no patrols. Through the small 
gap in your barricade, you watch the dark passage with your Devil's Sight, but 
nothing moves.
When Kessa wakes, you both sit in the dimness, sharing some rations and 
water.
"So," she says quietly, "we're deeper in the complex now. We've bypassed that 
main ambush point. What's the plan? Your... patron. What's it telling you?"
You focus inward on that ever-present pull. It's stronger than ever, a insistent 
tug pointing... northeast, you think. Deeper into the mountain, toward the 
inner chambers.
"It wants us to go deeper," you say. "Toward the heart of this place."
Kessa nods. "The Inner Sanctum. Where the Elder Elves opened their Gate to 
the Far Realm." She shivers. "Whatever your fiend wants, it's in there. 
Question is - how do we get there without fighting through the entire Duergar 
garrison?"
What's your approach?
*	Try to sneak through the complex using these back passages
*	Scout ahead to map out Duergar positions
*	Look for intelligence - maps, documents that show the layout
*	Push forward boldly and fight when necessary
*	Something else?
Current Status:
*	Johannes: 27/53 HP, 2/2 spell slots, 3/6 HD remaining
*	Kessa: 40/40 HP, 2/4 spell slots, 5/6 HD remaining
*	You're well-rested and ready to continue
Search for intelligence
Nov 30
Rolling Investigation/Perception to search for intel
 
SEARCHING FOR INTELLIGENCE - EXCELLENT SUCCESS!
"Good idea," you murmur. "Before we go blundering around, let's see what we 
can learn."
You methodically search the storage room while Kessa keeps watch. Most of it 
is junk - broken mining tools, empty crates, discarded equipment. But your 
military training serves you well - you know soldiers and workers often hide 
things in storage areas.
Behind a stack of rotting crates, you find it.
A leather satchel, forgotten or deliberately hidden. Inside:
1. A Crude Map
Drawn on a piece of scraped hide in charcoal and what looks like dried blood. 
It shows the Duergar complex - the "Outer Complex" as it's labeled in rough 
Dwarvish script (which you can partially read due to its similarity to 
Common).
Searched project for "Wellfast Duergar leader map outer complex layout"
1 result
 
CRITICAL INTELLIGENCE FOUND!
You pull out the map and study it carefully. Kessa lights her candle to see.
"By the gods," she breathes, looking over your shoulder. "This is a map of the 
whole Duergar complex."
The map is crude but detailed enough to be useful. You can make out:
WELLFAST'S MAP - Key Intelligence:
1.	Red Garrison Markers - Show major Duergar strongpoints:
*	The ambush room (Room 2a) you avoided - 4 enlarged Duergar
*	Multiple checkpoints with 4-6 guards each
*	A "Grand Promenade" (Room 31) - major bazaar with steeder-
riders on patrol
*	Guard barracks scattered throughout
2.	Route to Inner Chambers - Labeled "The Twisted Caverns"
*	The map shows a path through the Duergar complex leading to 
caves
*	These caves connect to the "Inner Sanctum" where your patron 
pulls you
3.	Key Locations Marked:
*	Room 41: Labeled "Wellfast's Quarters" - This is their 
commander
*	Slave Pens (Room 23) - Goblins kept as workers
*	The Gauntlet (Room 3) - Trapped corridor with pit traps
*	Checkpoints (Rooms 17, 24) - Alert points that warn Wellfast
2. A Scrawled Note
Written in Common, in a shaky hand:
"Wellfast has one of the crystal components. Sapphire rod in his quarters. 
The deepspawn in the caverns guards the emerald. Madreus keeps the third. 
All three needed to refocus the Vast Gate. -N"
The initial "N" - could this be from Nigel, one of the lost adventurers?
3. A Warning
Another scrap:
"Beware gibberlings in the Twisted Caverns. Hundreds. Also - Wellfast 
controls them somehow. Unnatural."
 
Kessa studies the map intently. "This is incredible intel. Look - if we can avoid 
the checkpoints and the Grand Promenade, we might be able to sneak through 
the residential areas and reach the Twisted Caverns without fighting the whole 
garrison."
She traces a finger along the map. "But Johannes... this note about crystal 
components. Does your patron want one of those?"
You focus on the pull. It's definitely drawing you toward the Inner Sanctum, 
past the Twisted Caverns.
What do you make of this intelligence? And what's your plan 
forward?
Is there a safe way to approach Wellfasts quests without stumbling into a 
patrol?
Nov 30
Analyzing the map for routes to Wellfast's quarters
 
TACTICAL ANALYSIS - EXCELLENT SUCCESS!
You study the map with your soldier's eye, tracing patrol routes, garrison 
positions, and traffic patterns. After several minutes, you tap the hide map.
"There's a way," you say quietly. "It's not safe exactly, but it avoids the major 
strongpoints."
You point out the route to Kessa:
THE STEALTH ROUTE TO WELLFAST'S QUARTERS:
"Look - we're here, in the barracks area. Most of the garrison markers are 
concentrated in three places:
1.	The Entry Ambush (Room 2a) - which we bypassed
2.	The Checkpoints (Rooms 17, 24) - alert stations that warn Wellfast
3.	The Grand Promenade (Room 31) - the bazaar, heavily patrolled
"But Wellfast's quarters are in the residential section, accessible through side 
passages. The map shows bolt-holes and service corridors throughout - the 
Duergar use them to move without going through public areas."
You trace a path with your finger:
"If we continue through these back passages, avoiding the main 
thoroughfares, we can reach the residential quarter. The map shows Wellfast's 
suite is near the Grand Promenade, but there's a service entrance from the 
back - probably for servants or maintenance."
THE ROUTE:
*	Continue through bolt-holes and storage areas (low traffic)
*	Navigate around the slave pens (Room 23) - goblins won't raise alarm 
against non-Duergar
*	Slip through residential quarters when off-duty Duergar are sleeping or 
in the bazaar
*	Approach Wellfast's quarters from the service entrance
RISKS YOU IDENTIFY:
1.	Timing: Need to move when Duergar are either at the bazaar or 
sleeping
2.	Wellfast Himself: If he's in his quarters, he's a major threat (the note 
suggests he's powerful)
3.	Magical Wards: His quarters are likely protected with alarms or 
glyphs
4.	Escape Route: Getting out with a stolen crystal component will be 
harder than getting in
Kessa nods slowly. "So we could potentially reach his quarters without fighting 
through the garrison. But..."
She looks at you seriously. "Do we want to steal from their commander? That 
crystal component - is that what your patron wants? Or does it want 
something deeper in, past the Twisted Caverns in the Inner Sanctum?"
Good question. What does your patron actually want?
You focus inward on that fiendish pull. It's not pointing at Wellfast's quarters - 
it's pulling you past them, deeper into the mountain, toward the Twisted 
Caverns and the Inner Sanctum beyond.
"No," you say finally. "It doesn't want the crystal. It wants something deeper. 
In the Inner Sanctum itself."
"Then why risk Wellfast at all?" Kessa asks. "We could use this route to slip 
past the Duergar entirely, reach the Twisted Caverns, and head for whatever 
your patron actually wants."
DECISION POINT:
Option A: Bypass Wellfast entirely
*	Use the stealth route to reach the Twisted Caverns
*	Avoid unnecessary combat with the Duergar
*	Head straight for what your patron wants in the Inner Sanctum
*	Leave the crystal components alone (they're not your mission)
Option B: Hit Wellfast's quarters first
*	The crystal component might be valuable (could be leverage or payment 
to patron)
*	Wellfast is their commander - disrupting him could help on the way out
*	High risk - if caught, the entire garrison comes down on you
*	Might find other useful intel or equipment
What's your call?
The staff seems far too important to be left behind. V whatever is deeper is 
likely keyed to these elements. Don't want to have to back track
Nov 30
Excellent strategic thinking - if you need those crystal components to interact 
with whatever's in the Inner Sanctum, better to grab them now than have to 
fight your way back through.
 
DECISION: ACQUIRE THE CRYSTAL COMPONENTS
"You're right," you say, studying the map. "These crystal components - three of 
them needed to 'refocus the Vast Gate.' That's not a coincidence. Whatever my 
patron wants in the Inner Sanctum, it's almost certainly connected to that 
gate."
Kessa nods. "Better to have them and not need them than reach the Inner 
Sanctum and realize we're missing a key."
You trace the locations on the map:
THE THREE CRYSTAL COMPONENTS:
1.	Sapphire Rod - Wellfast's quarters (Room 41)
2.	Emerald Rod - Guarded by a "deepspawn" in the Twisted Caverns 
(Room 74)
3.	Third Component - Held by someone named "Madreus" (location 
unknown, likely Inner Sanctum)
"So we need at least two," you mutter. "Wellfast's and the deepspawn's. Maybe 
all three if we find this Madreus."
"What's a deepspawn?" Kessa asks, looking worried.
You shake your head. "Nothing good. Some kind of aberration, probably. We'll 
deal with it when we get there."
THE PLAN:
"We use the stealth route to Wellfast's quarters, acquire the sapphire 
component, then continue to the Twisted Caverns for the emerald one. With 
luck, Wellfast won't even know we were there until we're long gone."
Kessa checks her equipment. "And if he's in his quarters?"
You meet her eyes. "Then we fight. Fast and hard. Kill him before he can raise 
the alarm."
She takes a deep breath. "Alright. When do we move?"
Analyzing optimal timing for the mission
 
"Now," you say decisively. "We move now. We have maybe 1-3 hours before 
someone finds those bodies in the barracks. Once that happens, the whole 
complex goes on alert."
Kessa carefully folds the map and tucks it into her pack. "Lead the way."
You extinguish her candle, plunging the room back into darkness. Your Devil's 
Sight pierces it easily.
"Same as before - hand on my shoulder, trust me to guide you."
She nods, gripping your shoulder.
You remove the barricade carefully and slip into the passage, moving with 
purpose now. The map is burned into your memory - every turn, every 
junction.
NAVIGATION CHECK - Moving to Wellfast's Quarters:
Rolling stealth checks for infiltration
 
THE INFILTRATION - DETECTED!
The first part goes reasonably well. You navigate the twisting passages, past 
empty residential chambers. A few Duergar are in their quarters, but they 
don't notice you slipping by in the darkness.
The slave pens are easier - the goblins see you through the bars of their cages, 
but they watch silently, hope flickering in their eyes. They won't alert their 
masters.
But as you approach the area near Wellfast's quarters, disaster strikes.
You're moving down a side corridor when your boot catches on a loose stone - 
you stumble, catching yourself against the wall with a scrape of leather on 
stone.
The sound echoes.
"Who's there?" A harsh voice in Dwarvish, followed by the sound of armor and 
weapons.
Two Duergar guards round the corner ahead of you, picks in hand. They're 
maybe 30 feet away, peering into the darkness. They can't see you yet - but 
they know someone's there.
One of them starts to reach for a horn at his belt - an alarm!
CRISIS MOMENT - INITIATIVE!
Rolling initiative for surprise encounter
 
SURPRISE ROUND - STOP THE ALARM!
Both you and Kessa react instantly. The guards are surprised, still squinting 
into the darkness, one reaching for his horn.
You both act simultaneously in the surprise round. The guards 
can't act yet.
JOHANNES & KESSA - What do you do?
Options:
*	Johannes: Eldritch Blast the guard with the horn (2 beams, can split 
or focus)
*	Kessa: Can use Vicious Mockery (save or take damage + disadvantage), 
or crossbow, or a spell
Critical decision: Do you focus fire on the guard with the horn, or split 
targets to try to drop both before they can shout?
Remember:
*	If the horn sounds, Wellfast and the entire complex will be alerted
*	These are 30 feet away
*	After this surprise round, they'll act normally and can shout/blow horn
What's your play?
Both beams on horn blower
Nov 30
Ranpython3 << 'EOF' import random print("SURPRISE ROUND - 
STOP THE ALARM!") print("=" * 50) print("\nJOHANNES - 
Both Eldritch Blast beams at Guard with Horn") print("-" 
* 50) total_damage = 0 hits = 0 for beam in range(1, 3): 
attack_roll = random.randint(1, 20) attack_total = 
attack_roll + 6 print(f"\nBeam {beam}:") print(f" Attack 
Roll: {attack_roll} + 6 = {attack_total} vs AC 4") if 
attack_roll == 20: print(f" CRITICAL HIT!") damage_dice1 
= random.randint(1, 10) damage_dice2 = random.randint(1, 
10) damage = damage_dice1 + damage_dice2 + 3 print(f" 
Damage: {damage_dice1} + {damage_dice2} + 3 = {damage} 
force") print(f" Duergar pushed 10 feet back!") 
total_damage += damage hits += 1 elif attack_roll == 1: 
print(f" CRITICAL MISS!") elif attack_total >= 4: 
print(f" HIT!") damage_dice = random.randint(1, 10) 
damage = damage_dice + 3 print(f" Damage: {damage_dice} + 
3 = {damage} force") print(f" Duergar pushed 10 feet 
back!") total_damage += damage hits += 1 else: print(f" 
MISS!") print(f"\n{'=' * 50}") print(f"Total: {hits} 
hits, {total_damage} damage") print(f"Duergar HP: ~9 
average") if total_damage >= 9: print("\n*** GUARD 1 
(HORN BEARER) IS KILLED! ***") print("The horn clatters 
to the ground, never blown!") guard1_alive = False else: 
print(f"\nGuard 1 is wounded ({total_damage} damage) but 
still up!") print("He's staggering but still has the 
horn!") guard1_alive = True # Kessa's turn print(f"\n{'=' 
* 50}") print("KESSA'S TURN") print("-" * 50) if 
guard1_alive: print("\nKessa targets the wounded horn 
bearer with her crossbow!") attack = random.randint(1, 
20) + 5 print(f"Attack: {attack} vs AC 4") if attack >= 
4: damage = random.randint(1, 6) + 2 print(f"HIT! 
{damage} piercing damage") if total_damage + damage >= 9: 
print("\n*** GUARD 1 IS KILLED! ***") print("Kessa's bolt 
takes him through the throat!") print("The horn falls 
from his dying grasp!") guard1_alive = False else: 
print(f"Guard 1 still standing! ({total_damage + 
damage}/9 HP)") else: print("MISS!") else: print("\nGuard 
1 already dead - Kessa shoots at Guard 2!") attack = 
random.randint(1, 20) + 5 print(f"Attack: {attack} vs AC 
4") if attack >= 4: damage = random.randint(1, 6) + 2 
print(f"HIT! {damage} piercing damage to Guard 2") else: 
print("MISS!") print(f"\n{'=' * 50}") if not 
guard1_alive: print("ALARM STOPPED - Horn never 
sounded!") else: print("WARNING: Guard 1 still alive with 
horn!") print("Guards are no
Cast hex, then eldritch blast on horn blower
Nov 30
Rolling Hex + Eldritch Blast combo on horn bearer
 
SURPRISE ROUND - PERFECT EXECUTION!
You react with lethal precision. Your hand shoots out, weaving the hex curse 
as dark energy wraps around the guard reaching for his horn. Then, without 
pausing, twin eldritch blasts erupt from your palm.
The first beam strikes him in the chest - 12 points of pure force combined with 
4 points of withering necrotic energy. He staggers backward with a grunt of 
pain.
The second beam catches him before he can recover - another wave of force 
and corruption that literally tears through his torso. He's blasted backward 20 
feet, dead before he hits the ground. The horn tumbles from his lifeless 
fingers, clattering on the stone.
Kessa's crossbow twangs and her bolt catches the second guard in the 
shoulder - 4 points of damage. He cries out in pain and surprise.
ALARM PREVENTED! The horn never sounded!
 
ROUND 1 - INITIATIVE
Setting up Round 1
 
ROUND 1 - JOHANNES'S TURN
One guard obliterated, one wounded and terrified. The second guard saw his 
companion literally disintegrated by your dark magic - he's clearly 
outmatched.
What do you do?
Options:
*	Finish him with Eldritch Blast (he still has Hex on him... wait, no - Hex 
is on Guard 1 who's dead. You'd need to use bonus action to move it to 
Guard 2)
*	Move Hex to Guard 2 (bonus action) then Eldritch Blast
*	Try to intimidate him into silence/surrender
*	Rush him for melee to silence him before he can shout
*	Something else
The guard is wounded, frightened, 30 feet away, and about to either fight or 
flee/shout for help.
What's your move?
Hex, then EB on guard 2
Nov 30
Moving Hex and casting Eldritch Blast on Guard 2
 
COMBAT COMPLETE - FLAWLESS EXECUTION
The dark curse shifts from the dead guard to the living one like a shadow 
changing hosts. The surviving Duergar's eyes widen in terror as he feels the 
hex settle over him.
He opens his mouth - whether to scream or beg, you'll never know.
Your first eldritch blast is a critical hit - 18 points of combined force and 
necrotic energy that punches clean through his chest. He staggers, already 
dying.
The second beam catches him as he falls - 11 more points of damage that 
ensures he's dead before he hits the ground.
Both bodies lie still in the corridor. No alarm. No shouts. Clean and silent.
 
AFTERMATH
Kessa hurries forward, checking the bodies quickly. "Dead. Both of them." She 
retrieves her crossbow bolt and looks at you with newfound respect. "That hex 
combination... that was brutal. Effective, but brutal."
You're breathing hard, adrenaline pumping. The dark energy of your patron 
thrums through you - you can feel its approval at the violence.
"We need to hide these bodies," Kessa says urgently, "and quickly. We're right 
outside Wellfast's area."
She's right. According to the map, you're very close to his quarters now. The 
service entrance should be just ahead.
CURRENT STATUS:
*	Johannes: 27/53 HP, 1/2 spell slots, Hex active (concentration, 1 hour 
duration)
*	Kessa: 40/40 HP, 2/4 spell slots
*	Two dead Duergar guards in the corridor
*	No alarm raised (yet)
*	Very close to Wellfast's quarters
What do you do?
*	Drag bodies into a side room/alcove quickly
*	Leave them - push forward to Wellfast's quarters immediately
*	Search the bodies first
*	Scout ahead before moving the bodies
Time is of the essence - every minute increases the chance someone finds 
either these bodies or the ones you left in the barracks earlier.
Hide and search bodies, ensure stealth holds
Nov 30
Searching and hiding the guard bodies
 
BODIES CONCEALED - PERFECT EXECUTION
Working quickly and efficiently, you strip the guards of their coin - 32 silver, 
10 gold, not much but every bit helps. You leave the picks and horn.
Your eye catches something just down the corridor - a maintenance alcove, 
partially concealed behind a faded tapestry showing ancient Duergar warriors 
crushing surface elves. Perfect.
"There," you whisper to Kessa, pointing.
Together you drag the bodies into the alcove. Your military training shows - 
you move them silently, efficiently, arranging them in the shadows where they 
won't be immediately visible. Unless someone specifically searches this alcove 
or notices the blood trail (which Kessa quickly scuffs over with her boot), the 
bodies won't be found for hours, maybe days.
"Good work," Kessa murmurs, smoothing the tapestry back into place. "Now 
let's move before our luck runs out."
 
APPROACHING WELLFAST'S QUARTERS
You continue down the corridor, your Devil's Sight guiding you through the 
darkness. According to the map, Wellfast's quarters should be just ahead - the 
service entrance on the east side.
After another minute of careful movement, you find it: a nondescript door, 
ironbound and solid. Unlike the main entrance (which the map shows is 
grander and likely trapped/warded), this looks like a servant's entrance.
Examining Wellfast's service entrance
 
AT THE SERVICE ENTRANCE
You examine the door carefully. There's something about it - a faint tingle of 
magic that makes the hair on your arms stand up, but you can't quite pin down 
what kind of ward it might be. Could be an alarm, could be nothing.
Kessa examines the lock and the door frame, running her fingers along the 
edges. "No traps I can see," she whispers. "Standard lock - I can pick it in 
under a minute."
You press your ear to the door. Thick wood muffles sound, but you hear... 
nothing. Either the room is empty, or whoever's inside is very quiet. Or 
sleeping.
Kessa looks at you. "Call it, Johannes. Do we go in?"
DECISION POINT:
What's your approach?
1.	Pick the lock and enter quietly
*	Risk: If someone's inside and awake, you're caught
*	Risk: Unknown magical ward might trigger
*	Benefit: If empty, you get the component cleanly
2.	Knock/announce yourself (bluff as servants/guards)
*	Risk: If Wellfast is inside, he'll know something's wrong
*	Benefit: Could determine if occupied before entering
3.	Try to disable/bypass the magical ward first
*	Requires: Arcana check or Dispel Magic (you don't have it)
*	Risk: Might trigger the ward trying to disable it
4.	Find another entrance
*	The main entrance (more heavily defended/warded)
*	Give up and move on to the Twisted Caverns instead
What do you do?
Arcana check
Nov 30
Rolling Arcana check to analyze the magical ward
 
ARCANA CHECK - SUCCESS!
You focus your senses on the magical energy emanating from the door. After a 
moment of concentration, the pattern becomes clear.
"It's a Glyph of Warding," you whisper to Kessa. "Alarm variant. The moment 
we open this door without the correct passphrase, it'll send a silent magical 
alert straight to Wellfast - wherever he is in the complex."
Kessa's face falls. "So if we go through this door, he knows immediately."
"Exactly."
She thinks for a moment. "Can you disable it?"
You shake your head. "Not without Dispel Magic, which I don't have. And I 
don't know the passphrase."
"So our options are..."
You consider the situation:
OPTIONS:
1.	Trigger the ward and rush the grab
*	Open door, grab the sapphire component, get out fast
*	Wellfast will be alerted and come running
*	You'll have maybe 2-5 minutes before he arrives with 
reinforcements
2.	Find another way in
*	Look for a window or ventilation shaft
*	Try to break through a wall (loud, slow)
*	Check if there's another unguarded entrance
3.	Abandon Wellfast's component
*	Skip the sapphire rod entirely
*	Head straight for the Twisted Caverns and the deepspawn's 
emerald rod
*	Hope one component is enough (or that you can get Madreus's 
third)
4.	Wait and ambush
*	Set up an ambush outside the door
*	Lure Wellfast out somehow
*	Kill him, then search his quarters at leisure
Kessa looks at you. "Your call, Johannes. But we need to decide fast. Every 
minute we stand here increases the chance someone finds those bodies."
What do you do?
Find another way...
Nov 30
Searching for alternate entry to Wellfast's quarters
 
ALTERNATE ENTRY - EXCELLENT DISCOVERY!
"Let's circle around," you whisper. "There has to be another way in."
You and Kessa move along the corridor, examining the walls and ceiling. 
You're looking for anything - ventilation shafts, adjoining rooms, structural 
weaknesses.
And then you find it.
About thirty feet down from the service entrance, there's a storage room - one 
of many scattered throughout the complex. But this one shares a wall with 
Wellfast's quarters, and when you examine that wall closely, your soldier's eye 
spots something crucial.
"Kessa, look at this."
The wall is stone, but it's newer stone than the rest - different color, different 
texture. Someone walled off what was probably once a connecting door or 
passage.
"They sealed it," Kessa says, running her fingers along the mortar. "Probably 
when Wellfast took over and made these his private quarters."
"Right. But look..." You point to a section near the floor. "The mortar here is 
crumbling. Water damage, maybe, or just age. And behind it..." You tap gently. 
The sound is hollow.
"We could break through," Kessa says, eyes lighting up. "Quietly, with those 
Duergar picks we've been collecting. Chip away the weak mortar, pull out 
enough stones to make a hole big enough to crawl through."
You nod. "And since it's not a door or window, it won't trigger any wards. 
Glyphs are tied to entrances, not random sections of wall."
"How long?" she asks.
You study the wall. "Ten, maybe fifteen minutes of careful work. Quiet work - 
just picking away mortar and shifting stones."
THE PLAN:
Use the Duergar picks to carefully dismantle the weakened section of wall, 
creating a crawl-space into Wellfast's quarters. It will bypass all magical wards 
on the doors.
RISKS:
*	10-15 minutes of work = more time for bodies to be discovered 
elsewhere
*	Making noise during the work could alert someone
*	If Wellfast IS in his quarters, he might hear you breaking through
Do you:
*	Proceed with the wall breach (Stealth checks required)
*	Listen through the wall first to confirm the room is empty
*	Reconsider another option
What's your call?
Wal breach
Nov 30
Rolling stealth checks for the wall breach operation
 
WALL BREACH - MESSY BUT COMPLETE
You and Kessa work as quietly as possible, but it's harder than you hoped.
Phase 1: The mortar crumbles away, but one of your pick strikes sends a 
scraping sound down the corridor. You both freeze. Nothing. You continue.
Phase 2: You're pulling stones out carefully when one shifts wrong - a 
loud SCRAPE echoes in the confined space. Both of you go perfectly still, 
hearts pounding, listening.
Silence. Maybe no one heard. Maybe they did and they're coming. You can't 
tell.
After thirty tense seconds, you decide to keep going. You've come too far to 
stop now.
Phase 3: Widening the hole, dust and small debris patter to the floor louder 
than you'd like. Kessa winces with each sound, but you push through.
Finally - finally - you have an opening. About two feet wide, low to the ground. 
A tight squeeze, but passable.
"Done," Kessa whispers, wiping stone dust from her face. "But we weren't 
quiet. If anyone was nearby..."
She doesn't finish. You both know the risk.
Through the hole, your Devil's Sight reveals what's beyond:
WELLFAST'S QUARTERS - WHAT YOU SEE:
Checking if Wellfast is in his quarters
 
WELLFAST'S QUARTERS - EMPTY
You peer through the hole. The room beyond is dark, but your Devil's Sight 
cuts through it easily. It's surprisingly luxurious for a Duergar commander - a 
large bed with thick furs, weapon racks displaying quality arms, a desk piled 
with maps and documents, an ornate wardrobe.
Most importantly: empty.
No Wellfast. No guards. Just his personal chambers, unoccupied.
"He's not here," you whisper to Kessa. "We're clear."
Relief washes over her face. "Then let's move. Fast. Find that sapphire rod and 
get out before he comes back."
You crawl through the hole first, then help Kessa through. You both stand in 
Wellfast's private quarters, your hex still active and thrumming with dark 
energy, ready for trouble.
TIME TO SEARCH:
You need to find the sapphire crystal component. According to the note you 
found, it's here somewhere.
Where do you search first?
*	The desk (maps, papers, maybe a hidden compartment)
*	The wardrobe (personal effects, hidden safes)
*	Under the bed (classic hiding spot)
*	The weapon racks (might be disguised among the weapons)
*	Systematically search everything (takes longer but thorough)
Remember: You've been in the complex for a while now. Multiple bodies. 
The longer you stay, the higher the risk.
What's your approach?
Systematic search
Nov 30
Rolling systematic search of Wellfast's quarters



5e Duets/
Could you continue the search of the quarters?
Nov 30
I'll search the project knowledge for information about quarters.
Searched project for "quarters search"
4 results
I found several references to quarters in the project knowledge! Let me 
highlight the key locations:
Gates of Firestorm Peak - Area 107: Old Quarters
This appears to be ancient living quarters for the Elder Elves who worked at 
the facility. The furniture has deteriorated to dust over millennia. The most 
interesting discovery here is a memory sphere (nephelium crystal) that 
activates when held, showing a vision of three Elder Elves - likely family 
members of one of the ancient technicians who lived there.
Gates of Firestorm Peak - Area 64: Quarters of the Keeper
These are the private quarters of the "Keeper of Spiders," a Duergar 
responsible for breeding and caring for the steeder population. The Keeper 
suffers from arachnophilia (an extreme obsession with spiders) due to the 
corruption emanating from the mountain's center. The room is crawling with 
1d10+10 normal spiders plus two dozen large spiders on the ceiling. The 
Keeper can be found here 50% of the time.
Gates of Firestorm Peak - Other Quarter References
There are also mentions of:
*	Area 46: Stairs adjacent to Wellfast's quarters
*	Various secret chambers and meditation rooms connected to the 
Duergar temple
Would you like me to search for more specific information about any of these 
quarters, or help you prepare encounters for these locations?
Wellfasts quarters
Nov 30
I'll search for more specific information about Wellfast's quarters.
Searched project for "Wellfast quarters room"
1 result
Please reference the previous chat for context
Nov 30
Relevant chats
2 results
Perfect! I can see the context now. You're playing Johannes Constantinius, the 
6th level Warlock bound to a fiend, accompanied by Kessa "Keys" Darrow, and 
you've started the Gates of Firestorm Peak adventure. You're currently 
gathering information in Longbridge before heading to the mountain.
Now, looking for Wellfast's quarters - let me search for more complete 
information about his personal chambers.
Searched project for "Wellfast suite secret room treasure chest illithid"
1 result
Based on the project knowledge, here's what I found about Wellfast's 
quarters:
Wellfast's Suite
Location: Adjacent to Area 46, accessible from the Grand Promenade (Area 
31)
Key Details:
Alert System: When the magical door to Wellfast's suite is opened, he's 
immediately alerted. If there's a battle in the Grand Promenade (Area 31), he 
leaves his suite to observe and direct troops.
The Trophy/Art Room:
*	Contains hunting trophies killed by Wellfast using his gibberslug power
*	Paintings signed "Wellfast Brightblade" in dwarvish (not Duergar) 
characters - this is one of Nigel's companion's
Can you read the previous chat? I don't want access to GM info about the 
location that I shouldn't know as the PC.
Nov 30
Relevant chats
2 results
You're absolutely right - my apologies! I shouldn't be sharing DM-only 
information with you. Let me look at the previous chat to understand what we 
established.
Relevant chats
1 result
Perfect - I see where we are now! You're gathering information from Elekgong 
the hermit at the tavern in Longbridge, and you just asked "Could you 
continue the search of the quarters?" - which I interpreted as a DM resource 
search rather than what Johannes would know in-game.
Let me get back in character as your GM. You're still in the tavern with Kessa 
working her charm on Elekgong. What would you like Johannes to do or ask 
next?
No we're beyond that. Please refer to the chat titled Knowledge Base file 
access in this project.
Nov 30
Relevant chats
2 results
Let me fetch the full recent chat to see where we are in the adventure:
Relevant chats
1 result
I need to see where exactly you are in the adventure. Let me search for the 
most recent gameplay:
Relevant chats
2 results
I can see from the chat summaries that you're inside Firestorm Peak already 
and have been exploring. The phrase "Could you continue the search of the 
quarters?" - you're asking me as the DM to continue describing what Johannes 
finds when searching quarters, correct? And you want me to only share 
information Johannes would discover in-character, not DM meta-knowledge?
Where exactly are you in the dungeon right now? What room or area are you 
currently searching?
We've found a secret entrance into the Garrison commander s quarters, 
someone named Wellfast. There's a saphirre component there, and likely other 
goodies as well.
Nov 30
Ah perfect! Now I understand. You've found the secret entrance into Wellfast's 
quarters and you want to search them. Let me describe what Johannes and 
Kessa find as they explore these rooms carefully.
 
WELLFAST'S QUARTERS - THE SEARCH
You step through the secret passage into what appears to be the private 
chambers of the Duergar garrison commander. The rooms are better 
appointed than anything else you've seen in this complex - actual furniture 
rather than stone benches, personal belongings, signs of wealth and status.
Failed to runpython3 << 'EOF' import random print("SEARCHING 
WELLFAST'S QUARTERS") print("=" * 50) # Johannes 
Investigation: INT +2, Prof +3 = +5 johannes_roll = 
random.randint(1, 20) johannes_total = johannes_roll + 5 
print(f"\nJohannes Investigation: {johannes_roll} + 5 = 
{johannes_total}") # Kessa Investigation: INT +1, Prof 
+3, Expertise = +7 kessa_roll = random.randint(1, 20) 
kessa_total = kessa_roll + 7 print(f"Kessa Investigation: 
{kessa_roll} + 7 = {kessa_total}") best = 
max(johannes_total, kessa_total) print(f"\nBest result: 
{best}") print("DC 10: Find obvious items") print("DC 15: 
Find hidden compartments") print("DC 20: Find everything, 
including secret treasures") EOF </parameter> <parameter 
name="description">Rolling Investigation checks for 
searching Wellfast's quarters</parameter>
Rolling Investigation to search Wellfast's quarters
EXCELLENT SEARCH!
Kessa's expert eye and your methodical military training combine perfectly. 
You find everything.
 
THE MAIN ROOM:
The chamber is furnished with dark wood furniture - a desk, wardrobe, 
sleeping area. On the walls hang what appear to be hunting trophies, but 
something about them is deeply unsettling. The stuffed creatures look... 
wrong. Hollow.
Kessa examines one closely. "These are filled with stone dust and dirt, not 
proper taxidermy. And some of these..." She points to what are clearly stuffed 
Duergar in elaborate dress. "Those aren't trophies. Those are people he killed."
At the desk, you find:
*	A rolled scroll labeled "Demonic Defense" (a scroll of protection from 
evil and good)
*	Writing materials, maps showing the upper Duergar complex with 
garrison positions marked
*	The route deeper into the mountain labeled "The Twisted Caverns"
In the wardrobe:
*	Various cloaks, tunics, and robes (Duergar-sized, but well-made)
*	Nothing particularly valuable
Then Kessa finds the hidden compartment behind a false panel in 
the desk.
"Johannes," she whispers. "Look at this."
Inside the secret compartment:
1. A crystal rod about a foot long, appearing to be made of red 
sapphire. The moment you see it, your patron's pull surges - this is 
connected to what it wants. The rod seems to pulse with inner light.
2. A locked chest (Kessa is already working on it with her thieves' tools)
 
Kessa's lockpicks click and turn. The chest opens.
Inside you find:
3. A book titled "Quicken The Mind" written in strange raised dots - 
illithid braille. Kessa can't read it, but it radiates faint magic.
4. A concealed compartment within the chest (which Kessa finds 
immediately) containing:
*	A wand inscribed with a strange word in the same dotted script
*	A pouch with two emerald-set earrings (worth about 450 gold pieces 
each)
5. A sack containing what appears to be Wellfast's personal wealth - various 
coins and small gems
 
"Well," Kessa says, carefully examining the sapphire rod. "This is definitely 
magical. And your 'friend' is very interested in it." She can see you clutching 
your chest - the fiend's desire for this object is almost painful.
"The book and wand are illithid - mind flayer artifacts. Rare and valuable." 
She grins. "And those earrings will help fund our retirement."
What do you want to do with these items? And do you want to 
continue searching the quarters, or move on?
How long does minor illusion last?
Nov 30
Minor Illusion lasts for 1 minute (no concentration required).
It's one of the few illusion spells that doesn't require concentration, which 
makes it great for setting up distractions or cover and then moving on to cast 
other spells.
Are you thinking of using it to cover your tracks in Wellfast's quarters, or 
create a diversion?
Ok. We're out; try to cover as much as possible.
Nov 30
Smart - don't overstay your welcome in the commander's quarters.
 
COVERING YOUR TRACKS
"Right, let's not be here when he gets back," Kessa says, quickly but carefully 
returning everything to its original position - except for what you're taking.
You work together:
Johannes: You cast Minor Illusion to create an illusory cover over the 
opened secret compartment in the desk, making it appear closed and 
undisturbed. Then another to mask the disturbed lock on the chest.
Kessa: With her expertise, she repositions the desk items exactly as they 
were, closes the wardrobe, and uses a cloth to wipe away bootprints in the 
dust.
The sapphire rod, book, wand, earrings, and coins go into your 
packs.
"The illusions will last a minute each," you say. "Enough time for us to get 
clear. When Wellfast returns, he might not notice immediately - especially if 
he's not specifically checking his hidden stash."
"And when he does notice..." Kessa grins darkly. "We'll be long gone and deep 
in the complex. Let him tear this place apart looking for the thief."
You slip back through the secret passage, pulling the door closed behind you.
 
BACK IN THE SECRET CORRIDORS
The stolen items weigh heavy in your packs - especially that sapphire rod, 
which seems to pulse with warmth against your back. Your patron is... 
satisfied. For now. But you can feel it's not the only thing it wants from this 
mountain.
"So which way?" Kessa asks. "We could:
*	Head back toward those garrison barracks and try to find another route 
deeper
*	Explore more of these secret passages - there might be other routes
*	Rest here in the passages before pushing on - we're both pretty beat up"
Current Status:
*	Johannes: 26/39 HP, spell slots available
*	Kessa: 28/38 HP, spell slots available
*	You have the sapphire component (one of three needed for something)
*	Wellfast's quarters will be discovered as robbed eventually
What do you want to do?
Search the secret passage for better place for long rest.
Nov 30
Good thinking - find somewhere more secure before you rest.
 
EXPLORING THE SECRET PASSAGES
"Let's find somewhere we can actually barricade," you say. "Preferably far 
from where anyone would search when they discover the theft."
You move quietly through the narrow secret corridors, your Devil's Sight 
guiding both of you through the darkness. Kessa keeps one hand on your 
shoulder, trusting you completely.
Searching for secure long rest location
EXCELLENT DISCOVERY!
After about ten minutes of careful exploration, you find exactly what you need.
 
THE OLD STORAGE CHAMBER
The secret passage opens into a small forgotten room - clearly part of the 
original Elder Elf construction, not the Duergar additions. It's about 15 feet 
square, carved from smooth stone, and most importantly: it has only one 
entrance (the secret door you came through) and shows no signs of recent use.
"Perfect," Kessa breathes, examining the space. "Look - ancient but intact."
The room contains:
*	Stone shelves along one wall (empty except for dust)
*	The faint phosphorescent glow of the Elder Elf stonework providing dim 
light
*	A solid stone floor, level and clean
*	No other exits, no arrow slits, no murder holes
Why this is ideal:
1.	Single entrance - You can block the secret door from inside
2.	No traffic - Layers of undisturbed dust show no one has been here in 
years, maybe decades
3.	Off the main routes - Deep in the secret passage network, away from 
Wellfast's quarters
4.	Defensible - Narrow entrance means enemies can only come at you 
one at a time
"We can wedge something against that door," you say, already thinking 
tactically. "Even if they find it, they'll have to force it open - plenty of 
warning."
Kessa is already unpacking. "Eight hours of actual sleep sounds like heaven 
right about now. I'll take first watch?"
Before you rest, do you want to:
*	Set up any alarms or wards? (You could use Minor Illusion to create 
sound-based alarms, or position equipment to make noise if the door 
moves)
*	Examine any of the items you stole more closely?
*	Tend to wounds/prepare for the long rest?
*	Something else?
Set up alarm, then long rest
Nov 30
Setting up alarms and rolling for long rest encounters
 
LONG REST - THE HIDDEN CHAMBER
You and Kessa work efficiently to secure your position. Stones stacked against 
the door, metal cups positioned to clatter at the slightest movement, and your 
ongoing Minor Illusion ready to sound an alarm.
"Get some sleep," Kessa says, settling with her back to the wall, rapier across 
her lap. "I'll wake you in four hours."
You lay down, exhausted. The sapphire rod digs slightly into your back 
through the pack, and you can feel your patron's satisfaction radiating from it 
like warmth from a fire. Sleep comes quickly.
 
KESSA'S WATCH - HOURS 1-4
The half-elf sits in the dim phosphorescent glow, alert and watchful. Every 
minute or so, she hears you murmur the Minor Illusion cantrip in your sleep, 
maintaining the alarm. She smiles slightly - even unconscious, you're covering 
their backs.
The hours pass quietly. No sounds from beyond the secret door. No patrols. 
The theft hasn't been discovered yet, or if it has, they haven't tracked you here.
She gently shakes you awake. "Your turn. Nothing happening - I think we're 
good."
You take her place against the wall as she settles down to sleep.
 
JOHANNES'S WATCH - HOUR 5
You sit in the darkness that is no darkness to you, Devil's Sight making 
everything clear as day. You recast Minor Illusion every minute, creating the 
bell-chime trigger at the door.
Then, during the fifth hour of rest, you hear it.
Scritch... scritch... scritch...
Not at your door. Somewhere in the walls. Something small moving through 
cracks in the ancient stonework. You freeze, hand moving to your pack where 
your pact weapon focus waits.
The scratching moves along the wall. Gets louder. Closer.
Then you see it - a gap between two stones, barely visible. And through that 
gap, something is squeezing.
Rolling for encounter type and perception
 
THE RUST MONSTER
The creature squeezes through the crack - about the size of a large dog, with a 
bizarre insectoid body, long antennae, and a ridged, rust-colored carapace. Its 
feathery antennae twitch as it scuttles into the room.
A rust monster. And it's heading straight for your pile of equipment.
You realize with horror what it wants - metal. These things eat metal, 
corroding it to rust with a touch. Your armor, your weapons, Kessa's rapier, 
the sapphire rod-
It's only 10 feet away when you finally react.
What do you do?
Quick tactical assessment:
*	It hasn't noticed you yet (focused on the metal)
*	Kessa is asleep
*	If you attack with metal weapons, it might corrode them
*	If you wake Kessa loudly, you'll alert anyone outside
*	Your Eldritch Blast is force damage - safe
*	The room is small (15 feet square)
Options:
*	Cast Eldritch Blast (might wake Kessa, will definitely kill it)
*	Try to shoo it away quietly
*	Wake Kessa stealthily and deal with it together
*	Let it have some less important metal and hope it leaves
*	Something else?
Roll initiative if you want to act immediately, or tell me your 
approach!
HeX, then EB, and try to get kressa awake without ruining the hideout.
Nov 30
Smart - take it down fast and quiet.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
You move with practiced precision, whispering the fell words of your patron. 
Dark energy coils around the rust monster as you cast Hex, marking it for 
death.
Then you unleash Eldritch Blast.
Rolling Hex + Eldritch Blast attack on rust monster
 
THE AMBUSH
Your first blast goes wide, crackling past the creature's antennae. But the 
second beam strikes true - a lance of eldritch force punches into its carapace 
with a muted crack. The Hex energy tears at it, dark tendrils of necrotic power 
coiling around its body.
The rust monster squeals - a high, chittering sound - and whirls toward you, 
antennae twitching wildly.
Kessa's eyes snap open at the sound. She sees you, sees the creature, and you 
hold up one hand in a "stay quiet" gesture. She nods, hand already on her 
rapier - then realizes touching metal near a rust monster is a bad idea. She 
reaches for her hand crossbow instead.
RUST MONSTER'S TURN:
The creature, wounded and confused, scuttles toward the nearest source of 
metal - your pile of gear. Its antennae are outstretched, searching.
Rust monster movement and opportunity attack
DAMN!
Your opportunistic blast goes wide as the creature scuttles past with surprising 
speed. It reaches your equipment pile and its antennae make contact with 
Kessa's rapier.
Hissssss...
The metal begins to corrode, rust spreading across the blade like a disease. 
Kessa's eyes go wide with horror.
"My rapier!" she hisses.
 
ROUND 2 - YOUR TURN
The rust monster is now 10 feet away, its antennae wrapped around Kessa's 
rapidly corroding rapier. You can see the blade literally crumbling to rust.
What do you do?
Options:
*	Another Eldritch Blast (2 beams, likely to kill it but rapier might be lost)
*	Try to physically pull it away (risky - it might corrode your armor)
*	Let Kessa shoot it with her crossbow
*	Something creative?
The rapier will be completely destroyed in about 6 seconds if you 
don't act fast!
Eb
Nov 30
Eldritch Blast to save Kessa's rapier
DAMN!
Your first beam misses again - you're trying to avoid hitting the rapier itself, 
making your shots harder. The second connects, blasting a chunk out of the 
creature's carapace. It squeals and shudders but doesn't fall, its antennae still 
wrapped around the rapidly corroding blade.
Hissssss...
Half the rapier is rust now, flaking away into orange powder.
"Johannes, move!" Kessa snaps.
 
KESSA'S TURN
She raises her hand crossbow and fires point-blank at the creature's head.
Kessa's crossbow attack on rust monster
KESSA'S SHOT
Thunk!
The crossbow bolt punches through the creature's eye. It shrieks and thrashes, 
but doesn't die - still clinging to the rapier with desperate hunger.
"It won't let go!" Kessa hisses, already reloading.
The rapier is now three-quarters rust. Maybe ten more seconds before it's 
completely gone.
 
ROUND 3 - YOUR TURN
The creature is badly wounded (~5 HP left), but still feeding. One more good 
hit should do it.
What do you do?
*	Eldritch Blast again (2 more chances to finish it)
*	Rush in and physically pull it off (risk to your armor/weapons)
*	Let Kessa finish it next turn (rapier will definitely be destroyed)
EB
Nov 30
Final Eldritch Blast to kill rust monster
 
THE KILL
Your first beam misses again - cursed luck - but the second catches the rust 
monster dead center. The eldritch force and Hex energy combine, blasting 
through its weakened carapace. The creature convulses once and goes still.
But it's too late.
Even as it dies, the rapier in its grip continues to corrode. The steel blade 
flakes away like autumn leaves, crumbling to orange-brown rust powder. 
Within seconds, all that remains in Kessa's hand is the hilt - the leather grip 
and pommel intact, but the blade completely gone.
She stares at it for a long moment, then lets out a frustrated breath.
"Well. Shit."
 
AFTERMATH
The rust monster's corpse lies among the rust powder that was once Kessa's 
rapier. The room is silent except for your breathing.
Kessa examines the ruined hilt, then tosses it aside. "Had that blade for three 
years. Bought it in Waterdeep with money from my first big score." She shakes 
her head. "At least the rest of our gear is safe."
She looks at you. "Good shooting. If you'd been one second slower, it would've 
gotten to your armor or the sapphire rod."
Your gear is intact except for Kessa's rapier. The rust monster is 
dead.
"Well, there goes finishing our long rest peacefully," she mutters, sitting back 
down. "Though I suppose I should be grateful - if that thing had found us 
while we were both asleep..."
What do you want to do?
*	Try to salvage the rest of the long rest (you've had about 5 hours, need 3 
more for full benefits)
*	Give up on the rest and push forward now
*	Search the rust monster's body (they sometimes have partially-digested 
metal in their gullets)
*	Something else?
Search, then sleep
Nov 30
Searching rust monster and completing long rest
 
SEARCHING THE RUST MONSTER
"Might as well see if it ate anything valuable before it found us," you say, 
kneeling by the corpse.
Your soldier's practicality serves you well. You carefully cut open the creature's 
gullet, avoiding the still-acidic digestive fluids. Inside, you find the remains of 
its recent meals:
Loot found:
*	38 copper pieces (corroded but usable)
*	14 silver pieces (tarnished but intact)
*	A bent iron ring (the metal is worthless, but you detect a faint magical 
aura - it was once enchanted, though the enchantment is broken now)
"This thing was young," you observe, examining its size and the condition of 
its carapace. "Probably squeezed through cracks from deeper in the complex, 
feeding on old metal in abandoned rooms."
Kessa nods. "Which means there might be more. Let's hope they stick to the 
areas we're not exploring."
 
COMPLETING THE LONG REST
You clean up the mess as best you can, reset your alarms, and settle back 
down.
"I'll finish my watch," Kessa says, though she eyes the crack in the wall warily. 
"You get some sleep."
The remaining three hours pass without incident. The secret chamber remains 
quiet, your makeshift alarms undisturbed. When you finally wake, you feel 
genuinely rested for the first time since entering this mountain.
 
LONG REST COMPLETED!
JOHANNES:
*	HP fully restored: 39/39
*	All spell slots recovered
*	Hex is no longer active (concentration ended during rest)
KESSA:
*	HP fully restored: 38/38
*	All spell slots recovered
*	All Bardic Inspiration dice recovered (4d8 available)
However: Kessa no longer has her rapier. She still has her hand crossbow 
and dagger, but she's lost her primary melee weapon.
Kessa stretches, wincing at the stiffness. "Eight hours in a stone room. Luxury 
accommodations." She looks at her empty scabbard. "First priority when we 
find civilization again: new rapier. Second priority: finding whoever sent that 
rust monster my way and making them pay for it."
She grins, but you can tell losing the blade bothers her more than she's letting 
on.
You're fully rested and ready to continue exploring. What's your 
plan?
*	Continue searching these secret passages for other routes
*	Head back out and explore the main Duergar complex
*	Try to find a way deeper toward where your patron is pulling you
*	Something else?
Before we move forward, were there any weapons in Wellfasts quarters that 
could replace the rapier?
Nov 30
Good question! Let me check what you found in Wellfast's quarters.
Looking back at your search, you found:
In Wellfast's Quarters:
*	The sapphire rod (magical component)
*	Scroll of Protection from Evil and Good
*	Maps and documents
*	The illithid chest with the book, wand, and earrings
*	Cloaks, tunics, robes in the wardrobe (Duergar-sized)
*	His personal wealth (coins/gems)
The adventure mentioned there was a weapons rack, but I didn't detail what 
was on it during your search. Let me roll to see what weapons were actually 
available there that you might have noticed:
Checking what weapons were available in Wellfast's quarters
 
RECALLING WELLFAST'S ARMORY
"Wait," Kessa says, thinking back. "When we searched Wellfast's quarters, 
wasn't there a weapons rack?"
You remember now - with your thorough search, you did see it:
Weapons Available in Wellfast's Quarters:
*	Multiple Duergar-sized weapons (short swords, war picks, hammers) - 
all too small for effective human use
*	Several Duergar crossbows
*	One particularly fine dwarven heavy crossbow with decorative carvings
*	Wellfast's personal weapon - a battle axe called "Crystal Cleaver" (a +2 
battle axe made of nephelium crystal)
"The problem," you tell Kessa, "is that Duergar are what, four feet tall? Their 
'short swords' are basically daggers for us. Nothing there would work as a 
proper rapier replacement."
Kessa grimaces. "Right. Damn. I saw that crystal battle axe - beautiful piece, 
but I'm not exactly a 'swing a big axe' kind of fighter." She hefts her hand 
crossbow. "Guess I'm relying more on this until we find something better."
"We could go back and grab that fancy dwarven crossbow as a backup," you 
offer. "Or the crystal axe - might be valuable to trade."
Kessa considers. "The crossbow maybe, if we're going back that way. But going 
back to Wellfast's quarters now, after we've rested? They might have 
discovered the theft. It's been eight hours."
Do you want to:
*	Risk going back to grab the dwarven crossbow or crystal axe?
*	Continue forward and hope to find better weapons deeper in
*	Have Kessa rely on her hand crossbow and dagger for now?
Let's move ahead. No use crying over spilt milk or rusted swords.
Nov 30
MOVING FORWARD
Kessa nods approvingly. "Now you're talking sense. Besides, if we run into 
more Duergar, I'm sure one of them will be carrying something I can liberate." 
She pats her hand crossbow. "This got me through plenty of tight spots before 
I had that rapier anyway."
She checks her gear one more time - crossbow loaded, bolts accessible, thieves' 
tools secure, the stolen treasures packed carefully. "Ready when you are."
You feel the pull from your patron - stronger now after the rest, more 
insistent. It's drawing you deeper into the mountain, away from the Duergar 
upper complex and toward... something below. The sapphire rod in your pack 
pulses with warmth.
 
LEAVING THE HIDDEN CHAMBER
You carefully dismantle your alarm system and listen at the secret door. 
Nothing. The passages beyond remain silent.
"Which way?" Kessa whispers.
You have a few options:
1. Follow the secret passages deeper - They seem to wind through the 
complex, bypassing main corridors. Safer but slower.
2. Exit back into the Duergar areas - Faster route, but risk of 
encountering patrols. Your theft might have been discovered by now.
3. Follow your patron's pull - Let the fiend's hunger guide you toward 
what it wants. Most direct but unknown dangers.
4. Look for a route to "The Twisted Caverns" - You saw that marked on 
Wellfast's map as the route to the inner mountain.
What's your choice?
Look for a route. The fiend isn't invested in my well being.
Nov 30
SMART THINKING
"Good call," Kessa agrees quietly. "That thing in your chest wants its prize, but 
it doesn't care if you're alive or dead when it gets it. Let's use our heads, not 
follow the demon's leash."
You pull out the map you copied from Wellfast's desk during your search, 
studying it by the faint phosphorescent glow of the Elder Elf stonework.
Interpreting the map to find route to Twisted Caverns
 
KESSA'S EXPERTISE
"Here," Kessa says, taking the map and orienting it against your current 
position. Her finger traces the passages with practiced ease - years of casing 
noble estates and planning heists paying off.
"See these red markers? Garrison points - six or more Duergar at each. We 
want to avoid these." She traces a route with her finger. "But look - there's a 
service corridor here that runs parallel to the main route. Probably used by 
miners or maintenance crews. Less traffic."
You lean in, following her logic.
"We're currently here," she taps a spot, "in the secret passages adjacent to the 
barracks level. The Twisted Caverns entrance is... here." She points to the 
eastern edge of the map. "Wellfast labeled it specifically - apparently that's 
where the route gets really dangerous."
She traces the safest path:
THE ROUTE:
1.	Exit secret passages into minor corridor (5 minutes)
2.	Cross through old storage areas (20 minutes) - marked as "rarely 
used" on the map
3.	Navigate past the Duergar marketplace (30 minutes) - risky but 
necessary, use stealth
4.	Follow eastern maintenance tunnels (45 minutes) - should be 
clear
5.	Reach checkpoint before Twisted Caverns (final 30 minutes) - 
likely guarded
"Total travel time: about 2-3 hours if we're careful," Kessa concludes. "The 
checkpoint at the end is our biggest problem - it's marked as 'Last Defense' on 
this map. They'll have guards there for sure."
She looks at you. "But once we're past that, we're into the Twisted Caverns and 
beyond Duergar territory. Whatever's down there, Wellfast apparently doesn't 
control it."
Your plan:
*	Take the safer route Kessa mapped out
*	2-3 hours of careful travel
*	Final checkpoint will require dealing with guards somehow
Ready to move out? Or do you want to prepare anything first?
Give Kressa my short sword, then head out
Nov 30
ARMING KESSA
"Here," you say, unbuckling your mundane shortsword and handing it to her. 
"Not a rapier, but better than just a dagger."
Kessa takes it, testing the weight and balance. "Heavier than I'm used to, and 
the balance is all wrong for finesse work, but..." She makes a few practice 
thrusts. "Yeah, this'll do. Thanks, Johannes."
She straps it to her belt opposite her dagger. Between the shortsword, dagger, 
and hand crossbow, she's armed again - not ideal, but functional.
"Alright," she says, checking her gear one last time. "Let's get moving before 
someone comes looking for Wellfast's stolen goods."
 
HEADING OUT
You move through the secret passage, following Kessa's mapped route. Your 
Devil's Sight guides you both through the darkness until you reach a concealed 
door that should open into the minor corridor.
Stealth check exiting secret passages
 
INTO THE MINOR CORRIDOR
You ease the secret door open slowly, listening. Silence. The corridor beyond is 
empty - a narrow service passage lit by the same faint phosphorescent glow as 
the rest of the Elder Elf construction.
You both slip out quietly, and Kessa carefully closes the secret door behind 
you. It blends seamlessly back into the wall.
"So far so good," she whispers. "Storage areas are this way."
 
PHASE 1: OLD STORAGE AREAS (20 minutes)
You move through a series of connected chambers that once served as supply 
rooms for the Elder Elves. Most are now empty or filled with broken Duergar 
mining equipment - carts with broken wheels, worn pickaxes, barrels of 
spoiled provisions.
The phosphorescent glow is dimmer here, and dust lies thick on everything. 
Clearly these areas see little use.
Navigating through storage areas
 
CLEAR PASSAGE
Twenty minutes of careful movement through the abandoned storage areas. 
Kessa's sharp eyes spot safe paths around debris, and you both move in 
silence. The rooms smell of dust, old stone, and the faint metallic tang of 
Duergar industry.
No patrols. No encounters. The route is as safe as Kessa predicted.
"Next section is trickier," she whispers as you approach the edge of the storage 
area. "The marketplace. We'll need to skirt around it - can't go through the 
main bazaar, but there are side passages we can use."
 
PHASE 2: DUERGAR MARKETPLACE (30 minutes)
Ahead, you hear the distant sounds of activity - voices speaking in the harsh 
Duergar tongue, the clatter of metal on stone, the general bustle of commerce.
"Stay low, stay quiet," Kessa breathes. "Follow me."
How do you want to approach this section?
*	Stealth heavily - Move very slowly and carefully (takes longer, safer)
*	Quick and quiet - Normal stealth, trust Kessa's route (balanced risk)
*	Use magic - Cast something to help (Invisibility? Minor Illusion for 
distraction?)
*	Another approach?
Heavy stealth!
Nov 30
HEAVY STEALTH APPROACH
"Let's not take chances," you whisper. "Slow and careful."
Kessa nods approvingly. "Smart. We've got time, and getting spotted here 
would be bad. The marketplace connects to multiple garrison points - if we're 
seen, reinforcements arrive fast."
You both settle into a patient, methodical approach. Every step is carefully 
placed, every shadow used for cover, every sound from the marketplace 
monitored before moving.
Heavy stealth check bypassing marketplace
 
PERFECT EXECUTION
For thirty tense minutes, you and Kessa move like ghosts through the side 
passages skirting the Duergar marketplace.
You catch glimpses of the bazaar through doorways and gaps - a large open 
chamber filled with merchant stalls, Duergar haggling over goods, the smell of 
mushroom-based foods, the gleam of nephelium-crafted items catching the 
phosphorescent light. But you never enter the main floor.
Instead, Kessa guides you through maintenance corridors, old access tunnels, 
and forgotten side rooms. Your military discipline and her burglar's instincts 
combine perfectly - you anticipate patrol patterns, she finds the shadows to 
hide in.
At one point, a Duergar guard walks within five feet of your hiding spot, 
grumbling about his shift. You both freeze, barely breathing. He passes 
without a glance.
Finally, you emerge from the network of passages on the far side of the 
marketplace, well beyond the commercial district.
"Beautiful work," Kessa whispers with genuine admiration. "You move quiet 
for a soldier."
"You find paths where there aren't any," you reply. "We make a good team."
She grins. "Don't we though?"
 
PHASE 3: EASTERN MAINTENANCE TUNNELS (45 minutes)
The route ahead is clearer now - long, relatively straight tunnels that once 
served the Elder Elves' maintenance needs. The Duergar use them 
occasionally but they're far from the main traffic areas.
"Homestretch before the checkpoint," Kessa says, checking the map. "These 
tunnels should be mostly clear. Then we hit the 'Last Defense' and things get 
interesting."
Continue forward? Or do you want to:
*	Take a short rest before the checkpoint (1 hour)
*	Scout ahead carefully first
*	Just push through to the checkpoint
*	Something else?
Scout ahead
Nov 30
SCOUTING AHEAD
"Let's not walk blind into their 'Last Defense,'" you say. "I'll scout ahead once 
we get close."
"Good call," Kessa agrees. "With your Devil's Sight, you can see in total 
darkness. I'll hang back and cover the retreat if things go south."
You move carefully through the eastern maintenance tunnels - long, straight 
passages carved by Elder Elf precision. The phosphorescent glow is dimmer 
here, fading to near-darkness in places.
After about forty minutes of cautious travel, Kessa holds up a hand. She points 
ahead where the tunnel curves slightly.
"According to the map, the checkpoint should be just around that bend," she 
whispers. "Maybe sixty feet ahead."
You nod and move forward alone, keeping to the shadows.
Scouting the checkpoint ahead
 
THE CHECKPOINT - SPOTTED
You creep forward, using your Devil's Sight to peer around the curve in the 
tunnel. What you see makes you curse silently.
THE "LAST DEFENSE" CHECKPOINT:
The tunnel opens into a wider corridor - about 20 feet across. A crude stone 
wall has been built across most of it, about 10 feet tall with sharpened spikes 
along the top. There's a reinforced door in the center.
Guards: You count 4 Duergar warriors in position:
*	2 standing guard at the door itself
*	2 more positioned on a ledge above the wall (crossbows ready)
Defenses:
*	The wall provides them cover
*	Murder holes in the ceiling suggest more can rain down attacks
*	A lever visible near the guards - probably triggers some kind of trap in 
the corridor approach
The Problem: One of the guards on the ledge is scanning the tunnel with 
obvious alertness. As you watch, his eyes narrow and he points in your 
direction.
"Khar gund!" he barks in Duergar. Something's there!
The other guards tense, raising weapons. They can't see you clearly in the 
darkness, but they know something moved.
 
You quickly retreat back around the corner to where Kessa waits.
"They spotted movement," you whisper urgently. "Four guards - two at a door, 
two above with crossbows. They're alert now but don't have a clear target yet."
Kessa's mind races. "Options?"
TACTICAL SITUATION:
*	4 Duergar guards, now on alert
*	Fortified position with cover
*	You have maybe 30 seconds before they investigate or raise full alarm
What do you do?
*	Talk your way through - Try to bluff/negotiate (risky with Duergar)
*	Ambush them - They're coming to investigate, hit them in the tunnel
*	Retreat and find another route - Avoid this checkpoint entirely
*	Magic solution - Use spells creatively to bypass or defeat them
*	Something else?
What spells do we have to play with?
Nov 30
Listing available spells and tactical options
 
SPELL OPTIONS
You quickly review your magical resources with Kessa:
STEALTH/BYPASS OPTIONS:
*	Invisibility (you or Kessa) - One person turns invisible for 1 hour, 
could sneak past
*	Major Image (Kessa, 3rd level) - Create very convincing distraction 
elsewhere
*	Misty Step (you, 2nd level) - Teleport 30 feet, but only gets you past, 
not Kessa
CROWD CONTROL OPTIONS:
*	Hypnotic Pattern (Kessa, 3rd level) - Charm up to 6 creatures in 30-
foot cube (all 4 guards if positioned right!)
*	Hold Person (Kessa, 2nd level) - Paralyze 1 humanoid (can upcast for 
2)
*	Tasha's Hideous Laughter (Kessa, 1st level) - Incapacitate 1 guard
*	Suggestion (Kessa, 2nd level) - Make one guard follow a command
COMBAT SUPPORT:
*	Hex (you) + Eldritch Blast - Heavy damage output
*	Mirror Image (you) - Make yourself hard to hit
*	Armor of Agathys (you) - Temp HP + damage retaliation
CREATIVE IDEAS:
1.	Hypnotic Pattern all 4 - If Kessa can catch them in the area of effect, 
all 4 must save or be charmed and incapacitated. Clean, quiet solution if 
it works.
2.	Major Image distraction - Create illusion of cave-in, fire, or Wellfast 
appearing from another direction. While they investigate, slip past.
3.	Double Invisibility - Both cast Invisibility, sneak past while invisible.
4.	Hold Person + Rush - Paralyze the crossbow guards, rush past the 
melee guards
"What's your play?" Kessa whispers, hearing footsteps approaching from the 
checkpoint.
What do you want to do?
Double invisibility
Nov 30
DOUBLE INVISIBILITY - SMART CHOICE
"We go invisible, both of us," you whisper. "Slip right past them while they're 
looking for whatever moved."
Kessa grins. "I like it. Simple, clean, conserves our energy for whatever's past 
that checkpoint."
You hear the guards getting closer - heavy boots on stone, the clink of armor 
and weapons. Maybe twenty seconds before they round the corner.
"You first," Kessa says, already weaving the spell with practiced fingers. She 
touches your shoulder and whispers the incantation.
Casting double invisibility and sneaking past guards
 
VANISHING ACT
Kessa's fingers trace arcane patterns in the air and she touches your shoulder. 
You feel the magic wash over you - a strange sensation like being wrapped in 
cool silk. When you look down, your body has completely vanished.
You immediately return the favor, casting Invisibility on her. She fades from 
view mid-grin.
"Perfect timing," her disembodied voice whispers.
 
PAST THE GUARDS
Two Duergar guards round the corner, weapons ready, scanning for intruders. 
You and Kessa press against opposite walls, holding your breath.
The guards stop right where you were standing moments ago.
"Noth gal?" one mutters. See anything?
"Nai. Probably rats," the other replies, kicking at the ground. "This whole 
sector is falling apart."
They peer into the darkness for another moment, then turn back toward the 
checkpoint, grumbling about false alarms.
You and Kessa wait until they're well ahead, then follow silently. Your Devil's 
Sight lets you see Kessa's invisible form as a faint shimmer - a side effect of the 
magical vision - so you can coordinate movements.
The guards return to the checkpoint and report to their companions. 
"Nothing. Just shadows."
The four Duergar settle back into their positions - two at the door, two above 
with crossbows - still alert but no longer actively searching.
You and Kessa creep forward, invisible and silent. Past the guards. Past the 
fortified wall. Through the reinforced door which one of the guards has left 
slightly ajar.
And then you're through.
 
BEYOND THE LAST DEFENSE
The corridor continues east, but the atmosphere changes immediately. The air 
grows colder, damper. The phosphorescent Elder Elf stonework gives way to 
natural cave formations. You've left the Duergar-controlled areas.
Ahead, the tunnel slopes downward into darkness.
A crude sign in Duergar script is mounted on the wall: "THE TWISTED 
CAVERNS - ENTER AT YOUR OWN RISK"
Kessa's invisible hand finds yours. "We did it," she whispers. "We're past the 
Duergar."
Your patron's pull intensifies, dragging you forward like a hook in your chest. 
Whatever it wants is down there in those caverns.
You're still invisible for approximately 59 more minutes.
What do you do?
*	Continue immediately while invisible
*	Wait here and rest before descending (invisibility will fade)
*	Scout ahead while invisible, then decide
*	Something else?
Continue immediately.
Nov 30
INTO THE TWISTED CAVERNS
"Let's use this invisibility while we have it," you whisper. "Whatever's down 
there, I'd rather meet it while we can't be seen."
"Agreed," Kessa's disembodied voice replies. "Lead the way. Your Devil's Sight 
is better than anything I've got right now."
You descend into the darkness.
 
THE DESCENT
The worked stone of the Elder Elf construction ends abruptly, giving way to 
natural cave formations. Stalactites hang from the ceiling like stone teeth. The 
air grows noticeably colder and carries strange scents - sulfur, decay, and 
something else. Something wrong.
Your patron's pull is almost painful now, a constant pressure urging you 
deeper.
Exploring the Twisted Caverns while invisible
 
CREATURE AHEAD
You've descended about 350 feet into the caverns when you spot it.
The tunnel opens into a larger chamber - maybe 60 feet across. 
Bioluminescent fungi cast an eerie blue-green glow across the space. And in 
the center of the chamber, something moves.
At first, you think it's a cluster of snakes. Then you realize it's worse.
A mass of tentacles - eyeless, pale, writhing together in a nauseating tangle. 
Each tentacle is about 6 feet long, covered in suckers and hook-like barbs. The 
creature seems to be feeding on something - the remains of what might have 
been a Duergar, now just bones and scraps of armor.
You've read about these in your military briefings on aberrations. A Grick. Or 
possibly multiple gricks in a nest.
Your patron's pull doesn't lead through this chamber - it actually curves 
around to the left where you can see another tunnel entrance. 
You could bypass this entirely if you're careful.
But as you watch, you notice something gleaming among the bones. Metal. 
Possibly weapons or treasure from previous victims.
Analyzing the grick encounter and loot
 
THE SLEEPING GRICK
You study the situation carefully. Just one grick, and it appears to be in some 
kind of torpor - its tentacles barely moving, coiled around its worm-like body. 
The creature has fed recently and entered a digestive sleep.
Among the bones and debris, you can make out:
*	A longsword (looks intact)
*	Pieces of chainmail armor
*	What might be a coin pouch
*	A few other metal objects, hard to identify from this distance
The bypass route curves left around the chamber - you could easily sneak past 
while invisible. The grick seems completely unaware.
Kessa's invisible hand squeezes yours. She can't see as well as you in the 
darkness, but she's following your lead.
Your options:
1.	Bypass completely - Sneak past while invisible (DC 10, very likely 
success)
2.	Kill it while it sleeps - Attack from invisibility, auto-crit on first hit
3.	Grab loot and run - Try to snatch items without waking it (risky)
4.	Something else?
Consider:
*	You're invisible (~45 minutes left)
*	Kessa still needs a proper weapon (has your shortsword but it's not ideal 
for her)
*	Combat might attract other creatures
*	Your patron is pulling you forward, not toward this chamber
What do you do?
Attack. Hex, EB
Nov 30
STRIKE FROM THE SHADOWS
"There's a sleeping grick," you whisper to Kessa. "One creature, torpid. I can 
drop it before it wakes."
"You sure?" Her invisible hand tightens on yours. "We could just slip past..."
"You need a better weapon. And I'm not leaving an aberration at our backs." 
Your voice is cold, practical. Years of hunting monsters for your patron have 
made this calculation second nature.
"Alright. I'll cover you with the crossbow in case it doesn't go down clean."
You release her hand and move into position, calling upon your patron's dark 
power.
Attacking sleeping grick with Hex and Eldritch Blast
 
BRUTAL EFFICIENCY
You whisper the words of Hex, marking the sleeping creature for death. Dark 
energy coils around it like chains. Then you unleash both beams of Eldritch 
Blast.
CRACK-CRACK!
The first beam punches through the grick's body with devastating force, the 
Hex magnifying the damage. The creature's body convulses-
The second beam hits before it can even register pain, blowing a massive hole 
through its center mass.
The grick's tentacles twitch once, twice, then go still. It never woke up. Never 
even knew it was under attack.
Your invisibility fades as the spell breaks, revealing you standing over the 
corpse, wisps of eldritch energy still crackling around your hands.
"Damn," Kessa's voice says from behind you - still invisible. "Remind me never 
to fall asleep around you."
"Only works on things I'm trying to kill," you reply, already moving toward the 
loot pile.
 
THE SPOILS
You search through the remains of the grick's victims. The creature has been 
here for some time, feeding on whoever was unlucky enough to pass through.
Searching the grick's lair for treasure
 
THE HAUL
Your thorough search turns up:
Found:
*	Standard longsword (good condition)
*	Partial chainmail set (too damaged for immediate use, but could be 
repaired)
*	30 copper, 14 silver, 12 gold pieces
*	1 healing potion (small vial, still sealed)
No rapier unfortunately. Kessa - still invisible - makes a disappointed sound 
when you tell her.
"Well, at least we got a healing potion," her voice says. "And coin never hurts. 
I'll stick with your shortsword for now."
You pocket the items and examine the chamber more carefully. The tunnel 
your patron is pulling you toward continues ahead, descending deeper. The 
bioluminescent fungi provide an eerie blue-green light that makes everything 
look alien and wrong.
The Hex on the grick's corpse still lingers - you have the spell active for 
another 59 minutes if you need to transfer it to another target.
Status Update:
*	Johannes: Visible (invisibility broken), Hex active (59 min remaining)
*	Kessa: Still invisible (~42 minutes remaining)
*	Spell slots used: Johannes (1x 2nd level), Kessa (1x 2nd level)
*	New items: longsword, healing potion, coins
"Ready to keep moving?" Kessa asks. "Or do you want to rest here and let my 
invisibility run out?"
What do you do?
*	Continue deeper while Kessa is still invisible
*	Rest here for a short rest (1 hour, Kessa loses invisibility)
*	Something else?
Continue forward.
Nov 30
DEEPER INTO THE TWISTED CAVERNS
"Let's keep moving while you're still invisible," you say. "I'd rather have that 
advantage for as long as possible."
"Agreed. Lead on."
You descend deeper into the caverns, following the relentless pull of your 
patron. The tunnel slopes downward at a steady angle, the temperature 
dropping with each step. The bioluminescent fungi become more prevalent, 
casting their eerie glow across increasingly strange rock formations.
Continuing descent into the Twisted Caverns
 
KESSA'S WARNING
You're about 360 feet deeper into the caverns when Kessa's invisible hand 
grabs your arm, stopping you mid-step.
"Johannes, stop," she hisses. "Don't move forward."
You freeze. "What do you see?"
"The air ahead... it's wrong. Look carefully."
You peer into the darkness with your Devil's Sight. At first you see nothing 
unusual - just more tunnel, more fungi. Then Kessa picks up a small stone and 
tosses it forward about twenty feet.
The stone enters an area of the tunnel and suddenly stops in mid-air. Not 
falling. Not moving. Just... frozen.
"What in the hells?" you breathe.
"Some kind of spatial distortion," Kessa's voice comes from beside you, 
impressed despite the danger. "The air is shimmering if you look close enough. 
It's like looking through warped glass."
She's right. Now that you're focusing, you can see it - a section of the tunnel 
about 30 feet long where space itself seems twisted, bent. The rock formations 
on the far side look stretched and distorted.
"This is what the Elder Elves were messing with," you realize. "Opening gates 
to other realms. The dimensional fabric here is damaged."
The suspended stone begins to slowly dissolve, reality eating away at it like 
acid.
THE SPATIAL ANOMALY:
*	Blocks the direct path forward
*	Approximately 30 feet long
*	Objects entering it become frozen in space
*	They slowly disintegrate over time
*	Your patron's pull leads through this area
You scan the chamber with your Devil's Sight. There appear to be two options:
Option 1: A narrow ledge along the left wall - about 2 feet wide, bypasses the 
anomaly. Requires careful movement. (DC 12 Acrobatics/Athletics)
Option 2: A crack in the ceiling that might connect to a passage above the 
anomaly. Would need to climb. (DC 14 Athletics)
Option 3: Try something magical to deal with the anomaly itself.
Kessa is still invisible (~24 minutes remaining). You have Hex active (~41 
minutes remaining).
What do you do?
Try the ridge...
Nov 30
THE NARROW LEDGE
"We take the ledge," you say, examining the narrow strip of rock along the left 
wall. "Two feet wide - tight, but manageable."
"I'll go first while I'm still invisible," Kessa offers. "If I fall into that thing, at 
least you'll know not to follow."
"Comforting thought."
"I'm a professional. I've crossed narrower ledges robbing noble estates." Her 
confidence is reassuring.
You hear her move past you, boots scraping carefully on stone. The ledge runs 
along the wall for about 30 feet, paralleling the spatial anomaly.
Crossing the narrow ledge past the spatial anomaly
 
PERFECT CROSSING
Kessa moves along the ledge with practiced grace, her invisible form betrayed 
only by the faint sound of her boots on stone. She's done this a thousand times 
- creeping along rooftops, balancing on window ledges, escaping through 
narrow passages.
"Clear," her voice calls from the far side. "Your turn."
You press your back against the wall and sidestep along the ledge. The spatial 
anomaly shimmers and warps just feet away from you - close enough that you 
can feel the wrongness of it, like static electricity crawling across your skin.
Your soldier's training serves you well. Steady movements, controlled 
breathing, focus on the next step. The ledge is solid beneath your boots.
Thirty feet later, you step off onto safe ground.
"Nice work," Kessa says. You can't see her, but you can hear the smile in her 
voice. "For a moment there, I thought the big armored warlock was going to 
have more trouble than the nimble thief."
"Never doubt military training," you reply, brushing stone dust from your 
armor.
 
BEYOND THE ANOMALY
The tunnel continues downward. The pull from your patron intensifies - you're 
getting closer to whatever it wants. The sapphire rod in your pack thrums with 
warmth.
The cavern walls here show signs of more spatial distortions - reality seems 
thin, unstable. You pass patches where the rock formations twist in impossible 
geometries, where shadows fall in directions that defy the light sources.
"This place is seriously messed up," Kessa mutters. "How much deeper does 
this go?"
As if in answer, the tunnel ahead opens into what sounds like a much larger 
space. You hear... something. A rhythmic sound. Almost like breathing, but 
too slow, too deep.
And there's light ahead - not the blue-green of the fungi, but a pulsing red 
glow.
Status:
*	Kessa still invisible (~20 minutes remaining)
*	Johannes visible, Hex active (~37 minutes remaining)
*	You're approaching a large chamber with an unknown light source
*	Something is making a breathing sound
What do you do?
*	Scout ahead carefully
*	Wait for Kessa's invisibility to expire and discuss strategy
*	Push forward immediately
*	Something else?
Investigation check for the breathing
Nov 30
INVESTIGATING THE SOUND
You hold up a hand, stopping both of you. That rhythmic sound - it's too 
regular to be wind, too organic to be machinery. You focus, using your training 
to analyze it.
Investigating the breathing sounds and red light
 
KESSA'S EXPERT EAR
You listen, trying to make sense of the sound, but it's Kessa who provides the 
real intelligence. Her invisible presence moves closer to the chamber entrance.
"Johannes," she whispers, barely audible. "I count at least three separate 
breathing patterns. Maybe more - the acoustics are weird in there."
She pauses, listening intently.
"Whatever they are, they're big. I'd say Large or Huge creatures based on lung 
capacity. And the rhythm..." Another pause. "They're sleeping. Deep, regular 
breathing. Torpid or hibernating."
"How close?" you ask.
"One is near the entrance - maybe thirty feet in. The others are deeper in the 
chamber. I'd estimate the space is about 80 to 100 feet across."
Your military training takes over, processing the tactical information. Multiple 
large creatures, sleeping, in a chamber your patron is pulling you toward.
The red pulsing light continues, throbbing in time with the breathing. You try 
to identify the magic involved, but it's beyond your knowledge - something 
alien, something wrong.
"That light..." Kessa whispers. "It's synchronized with their breathing. Every 
pulse matches an inhale-exhale cycle."
"Could be feeding on them," you suggest. "Or they could be part of some 
ritual."
"Either way, we need to get through that chamber. Your demon friend is 
pulling you that direction, right?"
You feel the insistent tug. Yes. Whatever your patron wants lies beyond this 
chamber of sleeping giants.
Options:
1.	Sneak through while they sleep - Kessa is still invisible (~18 min), 
creatures seem torpid
2.	Scout the chamber first - Peek in, get visual confirmation before 
committing
3.	Wait here - Let Kessa's invisibility run out, discuss full strategy
4.	Try to bypass - Look for another route around the chamber
5.	Something else?
What do you do?
Scout
Nov 30
Have kressa Scout
Nov 30
KESSA SCOUTS AHEAD
"You're still invisible," you say quietly. "Scout the chamber. I'll wait here and 
cover you if something goes wrong."
"Smart," Kessa's voice agrees. "If they wake up and spot me, I'll retreat back 
here. Don't engage unless I call for help."
"Be careful."
"Always am." You hear the grin in her voice.
Her invisible footsteps move away, incredibly light and careful. You press 
yourself against the wall near the tunnel entrance, ready to provide covering 
fire if needed.
Kessa scouts the chamber with sleeping creatures
 
PERFECT RECONNAISSANCE
You wait in tense silence for what feels like an eternity but is actually only 
about three minutes. Then Kessa's invisible hand touches your shoulder, 
making you jump slightly.
"Easy," she whispers. "It's me. I'm back."
"What did you see?"
Her voice is quiet but clear as she delivers her report:
"Three creatures. They're... gods, Johannes, they're gibberlings. You know 
what those are?"
You do. Aberrations from the Far Realm. Mindless, vicious, but these sound 
different.
"They're huge - about 12 feet tall each, bloated and swollen. They're sleeping in 
these... cocoons? Nests? Made of some kind of organic webbing. The red light 
is coming from crystals embedded in the floor - looks like Elder Elf work, but 
corrupted. The light pulses every time they breathe."
She pauses.
"Here's the layout:
The Chamber:
*	Roughly circular, about 90 feet across
*	The first gibberling is 30 feet from the entrance, on the right side
*	The second is 50 feet in, center of the room
*	The third is 70 feet in, left side
*	All three are in deep torpor - barely moving
The Path:
*	There's a clear route along the left wall that bypasses all three at safe 
distance
*	About 60 feet of careful movement
*	The exit tunnel is on the far side, slightly elevated
The Red Crystals:
*	Six of them arranged in a circle around the gibberlings
*	Pulsing in rhythm with their breathing
*	I don't know what they do, but they're definitely magical
*	They seem to be... sustaining the creatures? Or feeding off them?
The Good News: They're so deep in torpor they barely reacted even when I 
got close. I could probably tap-dance through there and they wouldn't notice."
You process this information. Your patron's pull leads straight through that 
chamber to the far exit.
"Anything else?" you ask.
"Yeah. Past them, I could see the exit tunnel. There's more red light down 
there. And I felt... pressure. Like something powerful is ahead. That's where 
your patron wants you to go."
Kessa's invisibility: ~15 minutes remaining
Your options:
1.	Sneak through now - While Kessa is invisible, follow the safe route 
she mapped
2.	Wait and plan - Let invisibility expire, discuss full strategy
3.	Try to disable the crystals - Might wake the creatures, might stop 
whatever is happening
4.	Attack the sleeping gibberlings - Eliminate threats before 
proceeding
5.	Something else?
What do you do?
Nature check about how dangerous gibberlings are?
Nov 30
ASSESSING THE THREAT
"Hold on," you say. "Gibberlings. Let me think about what I know."
You dig through your military training - briefings on aberrations, creatures 
from beyond the normal world.
Knowledge check about gibberlings and tactical assessment
 
TACTICAL ANALYSIS
"Normal gibberlings are small," you tell Kessa quietly. "Maybe three feet tall, 
travel in huge swarms. Mindless, ravenous - they attack anything that moves. 
Weak individually, deadly in numbers."
"These are twelve feet tall," Kessa points out.
"Exactly. These have been... changed. Mutated. Those crystals are doing 
something to them - keeping them in stasis, maybe feeding them energy from 
the Far Realm." You shake your head. "I don't know what they're capable of, 
but if they're proportionally stronger than normal gibberlings..."
"Three of them versus two of us in a confined space," Kessa finishes. "Bad 
odds."
"Very bad. Normal gibberlings are weak to light, but these?" You gesture 
toward the pulsing red glow. "They're bathed in magical light and it's not 
hurting them. They've adapted. Or been adapted."
You run the tactical scenario in your head:
IF COMBAT OCCURS:
*	3 large aberrations with unknown abilities
*	They act together (mindless swarm mentality)
*	6 attacks per round minimum vs your 2
*	No room to retreat easily
*	Your spell slots are limited (you've used one 2nd level)
*	Kessa has no rapier (using your shortsword suboptimally)
"We avoid them," you decide. "Use your scouting intel, take the safe route, 
don't wake them up."
"Agreed," Kessa says immediately. "I didn't survive this long by picking fights I 
don't have to win."
"How confident are you in that left-wall route?"
"Very. They're deep in torpor. As long as we're quiet and don't touch the 
crystals, we should be fine."
THE PLAN:
*	Follow Kessa's mapped safe route along the left wall
*	Move quietly past the sleeping gibberlings
*	Don't disturb the red crystals
*	Reach the far exit
Kessa's invisibility: ~13 minutes remaining
Ready to execute? Or do you want to do anything else first?
Execute
Nov 30
Execute, meaning following Kressa, not attacking.
Nov 30
EXECUTING THE STEALTH BYPASS
"Let's do this," you say quietly. "You lead, I'll follow exactly in your footsteps. 
Stay invisible as long as you can."
"Right. Keep three paces behind me, move when I move, stop when I stop. If 
something goes wrong, we sprint for the far exit - don't look back."
"Understood."
Kessa's invisible hand squeezes your shoulder once for luck, then releases. You 
hear her footsteps move toward the chamber entrance.
You take a deep breath, steady your nerves, and follow.
Stealth check to sneak past the sleeping gibberlings
 
HOLDING YOUR BREATH
You enter the chamber, and the sight stops you for a heartbeat.
The three gibberlings are massive - bloated, twisted forms wrapped in organic 
webbing that pulses with the same rhythm as their breathing. Their skin is 
translucent, showing veins of sickly luminescence beneath. They look like 
they're being simultaneously sustained and consumed by whatever magic fills 
this place.
The red crystals embedded in the floor pulse with each breath. The light 
washes over everything in waves of crimson.
You follow Kessa's invisible footsteps along the left wall, placing each boot 
carefully, controlling your breathing. Your armor clinks slightly - too loud in 
this quiet chamber.
The nearest gibberling, thirty feet to your right, shifts slightly in its cocoon. 
One massive arm twitches.
You freeze.
It settles back into stillness.
You continue, slower now, even more careful. Sweat beads on your forehead 
despite the cold. Your patron's pull is almost unbearable now - it wants you to 
move faster, to get to whatever lies beyond, but you force yourself to stay 
controlled.
Fifty feet. Sixty feet.
The far exit tunnel comes into view - an opening in the wall, elevated slightly, 
with more of that pulsing red light emanating from beyond.
Almost there.
Your boot scrapes on loose stone - just barely, but in this silent chamber it 
sounds like a thunderclap. All three gibberlings shift in their cocoons.
You don't breathe. Don't move.
The creatures settle again, their breathing returning to that deep, regular 
rhythm.
Then you're past them. At the exit. Kessa's invisible hand grabs yours and 
pulls you into the tunnel.
 
BEYOND THE GIBBERLINGS
You're through. The tunnel curves upward slightly, and the breathing sounds 
fade behind you. The red pulsing light ahead grows brighter.
"Too close," Kessa whispers once you're safely away. "Your armor almost woke 
them."
"Sorry. Not built for stealth." Your heart is still pounding.
"We made it. That's what counts."
The tunnel ahead is short - maybe fifty feet - and ends in what looks like a 
doorway. The red light pulses from beyond it in steady, hypnotic rhythm. Your 
patron's pull is focused there with laser intensity.
This is it. Whatever your patron wants is through that door.
Status:
*	Kessa still invisible (~11 minutes)
*	Both at full HP
*	Johannes: 1 spell slot used (2nd level)
*	Kessa: 1 spell slot used (2nd level)
*	Hex still active (~30 minutes remaining)
What do you do?
*	Approach the doorway cautiously
*	Have Kessa scout ahead invisibly one more time
*	Prepare spells/buffs before proceeding
*	Something else?
Blade ward on me, kressa scouts
Nov 30
PREPARATION AND SCOUTING
"Hold up," you say, stopping before the doorway. "One more scout while 
you're still invisible. And I'm going to prepare for whatever's beyond that 
door."
"Smart. Your patron's pulling you toward something - probably not friendly." 
Kessa's voice is tense. "I'll take a quick look."
You begin casting Blade Ward on yourself while she moves ahead.
Johannes casts Blade Ward, Kessa scouts the final chamber
 
KESSA'S REPORT
You feel the protective magic of Blade Ward settle over you like invisible 
armor as Kessa's footsteps fade toward the doorway. The spell will fade 
quickly - you'll need to maintain it when combat starts - but it's ready.
A minute passes. Then Kessa returns, her invisible hand finding yours.
"Johannes," she whispers, voice tight. "This is it. This is what your patron 
wants."
"Describe it."
She takes a breath, organizing her thoughts like the professional she is:
"The Chamber:
*	About 60 feet across, circular
*	High ceiling, maybe 40 feet up
*	Elder Elf construction, but corrupted - the walls are bleeding that red 
light
*	The floor has three concentric circles of runes, all glowing
The Gate:
*	Center of the room, suspended in mid-air
*	It's the Vast Gate - has to be
*	Looks like a vertical pool of liquid crystal, about 10 feet tall, 6 feet wide
*	Swirling with colors that shouldn't exist
*	I could see through it - there's something on the other side. Movement. 
Shapes.
The Components:
*	Three pedestals arranged in a triangle around the gate
*	Each pedestal has a slot for something
*	One already has a component - looks like a crystal prism
*	Two are empty - one's the right size for that sapphire rod you're carrying
The Guardian:
*	There's a creature between you and the gate
*	It's... gods, Johannes, it's not from this world
*	Hovering, tentacles, too many eyes
*	About 8 feet across
*	It's aware - not sleeping like the gibberlings
*	Positioned to defend the gate
The Danger:
*	If you approach, it will attack
*	The runes on the floor might be traps or wards
*	The gate itself is... wrong. Looking at it too long made me nauseous
*	There's something pulling from the other side - trying to come through"
She pauses.
"Your patron wants you to activate that gate. To put the components in place. 
But that guardian isn't going to let you just walk up and do it."
Your patron's hunger intensifies, almost painful. Yes. The gate. The 
components. Open it.
"What's your read on the guardian?" you ask. "Can we take it?"
"Unknown. It's an aberration - Far Realm creature. Could be anything. But 
we're at full strength, and I'm still invisible for ten more minutes. That's an 
advantage."
THE SITUATION:
*	The Vast Gate chamber lies ahead
*	A Far Realm guardian protects it
*	You have the sapphire rod (1 of 3 components needed)
*	Kessa is invisible (~10 minutes)
*	Your patron desperately wants you to activate the gate
What do you do?
*	Buff up and engage the guardian
*	Try to sneak past it to examine the gate first
*	Ask Kessa more questions about what she saw
*	Something else?
Add all buffs and let's go!
Nov 30
ALL IN
"We're doing this," you say, steel in your voice. "Full buffs, hit it hard and fast 
while you're still invisible."
"Now you're talking," Kessa replies. "What's the plan?"
"I'll draw its attention, you flank. I'll keep it locked down with Eldritch Blast 
while you get into position for critical strikes. We take it down before it knows 
what hit it."
"I like it. Let's stack every advantage we've got."
 
BUFFING UP
Applying all combat buffs before engaging guardian
 
ARMORED AND READY
You whisper the words of Armor of Agathys, and freezing magical energy 
wraps around you like a second skin. Frost forms briefly on your armor before 
fading - but you can feel it there, ready to punish anyone who strikes you.
"Alright," you say quietly. "You go in first while invisible. Get into flanking 
position. I'll step through and immediately apply Hex to it, then hit it with 
Eldritch Blast. That's your signal - hit it from behind with everything you've 
got."
"Got it. Aim for vital areas, exploit the surprise." Kessa's voice is focused, 
professional. "If things go bad, I've got healing and crowd control ready."
"And I've got Counterspell if it tries anything magical."
You both move to the doorway. Through it, you can see the chamber - the 
pulsing red light, the impossible colors of the Vast Gate swirling in the center, 
and the guardian.
It hovers about four feet off the ground, a mass of writhing tentacles 
surrounding a central body covered in too many eyes. Each eye glows with 
alien intelligence. This is no mindless gibberling - this thing is aware.
Your patron screams in your mind: KILL IT. OPEN THE GATE. FULFILL 
THE BARGAIN.
"Ready?" you ask Kessa.
"Ready."
"Then let's do this."
 
ENTERING THE VAST GATE CHAMBER
You're about to step through when-
Roll for initiative! Combat is about to begin.
Would you like me to proceed with rolling initiative and starting the combat 
encounter?
Yep!
Nov 30
INITIATIVE!
Rolling initiative for guardian combat
 
SURPRISE ROUND - PERFECT AMBUSH!
You step through the doorway together. The guardian floats near the center of 
the chamber, its many eyes scanning the swirling gate behind it. For just a 
moment, it's focused on the portal, not the entrance.
That moment is all you need.
 
KESSA'S TURN (Invisible, Surprise)
Kessa moves like a shadow, circling wide to flank the creature. It has no idea 
she's there.
She raises her hand crossbow, takes careful aim at what looks like a vital 
cluster of eyes, and fires.
Kessa's surprise attack with sneak attack damage
 
DEVASTATING OPENING
THUNK!
Kessa's crossbow bolt punches directly into a cluster of the guardian's eyes. 
The creature convulses, tentacles thrashing, dark ichor spraying from the 
wound.
38 damage! A brutal opening strike.
Her invisibility shatters as she becomes visible, already reloading with 
practiced speed. The guardian knows it's under attack now, but it's badly 
wounded and hasn't even had a chance to respond.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN (Surprise)
Your turn. The creature is reeling from Kessa's shot. Time to pile on.
You focus your Hex on the guardian - dark energy coils around it, marking it 
for death. Then you unleash both beams of Eldritch Blast.
Johannes's Hex and Eldritch Blast attack
 
COMBINED ASSAULT
Dark energy wraps around the guardian as you mark it with Hex. Then your 
first Eldritch Blast slams into its central mass - eldritch force and necrotic 
energy tearing through aberrant flesh.
15 damage!
Your second beam goes wide, missing as the creature thrashes.
Total damage: 53!
The guardian is badly wounded, ichor pouring from multiple wounds. But it's 
not dead.
 
GUARDIAN'S TURN
The creature cannot act this round (surprised), but it's now aware of the 
threat. Its many eyes focus on you and Kessa, tentacles writhing with 
malevolent intelligence.
 
END OF SURPRISE ROUND
ROUND 1 BEGINS - NORMAL INITIATIVE
Combat status update before Round 1
 
ROUND 1 - KESSA'S TURN
The guardian is heavily wounded but still dangerous. Kessa needs to finish this 
fast.
"Keep hitting it!" she shouts, firing another crossbow bolt while moving to 
maintain flanking position.
Kessa's attack in Round 1
Another bolt finds its mark, punching through tentacles and into the 
creature's core.
18 damage! Total: 71 damage to the guardian!
The creature is barely holding together, ichor streaming from dozens of 
wounds. But it's still hovering, still fighting.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
Your turn. Finish it.
What do you do?
*	Eldritch Blast again (2 beams, likely to kill it)
*	Cast a different spell
*	Something else?
EB, please!
Nov 30
FINISHING BLOW
"Die already!" you snarl, unleashing both beams of Eldritch Blast at the 
wounded guardian.
Johannes's finishing Eldritch Blast attack
 
THE GUARDIAN DIES
Both beams strike true - one after the other, hammering into the creature's 
central mass.
21 damage! Total: 92 damage!
The first beam punches through what might be its heart. The second 
obliterates a cluster of eyes that seem vital to its existence.
The guardian shrieks - a sound that shouldn't exist in this reality, a keening 
wail that makes your teeth ache and your vision blur. Its tentacles thrash 
wildly one final time, then go limp.
The creature drops from the air, hitting the glowing runes on the floor with a 
wet thud. Ichor pools around it, steaming in the red light.
Then it begins to dissolve - not decay, but unmake itself, reality rejecting this 
thing that never should have existed here. Within seconds, nothing remains 
but a dark stain and the fading echo of that horrible scream.
 
COMBAT OVER - VICTORY!
Combat summary and next steps
 
SILENCE IN THE CHAMBER
The guardian is gone. The chamber falls quiet except for the pulsing of the red 
light and the faint hum emanating from the Vast Gate.
"That was... efficient," Kessa says, lowering her crossbow. "We barely got 
scratched."
You nod, but you're not celebrating. Your patron's presence in your mind 
is screaming now, a constant pressure: THE GATE. THE COMPONENTS. 
OPEN IT. NOW.
You resist the urge to immediately comply and take stock of the chamber.
THE VAST GATE CHAMBER:
The circular room is about 60 feet across. In the center floats the gate - a 
vertical oval of impossible colors, swirling and shifting. Looking at it makes 
your eyes hurt. Through it, you can see... movement. Shapes. Something on 
the other side, waiting.
Three pedestals form a triangle around the gate, each about 10 feet from the 
portal:
Pedestal 1 (North): Contains a crystal prism, glowing with inner 
light Pedestal 2 (East): Empty - the right size for your sapphire 
rod Pedestal 3 (South): Empty
The floor is covered in three concentric rings of glowing runes - Elder Elf 
script, but corrupted, twisted.
"So," Kessa says carefully. "Your demon wants you to put that sapphire rod in 
the empty pedestal. What happens if you do?"
Good question.
What do you want to do?
*	Examine the gate more closely
*	Investigate the pedestals and runes (Arcana check)
*	Search the chamber for treasure/information
*	Place the sapphire rod (do what your patron demands)
*	Talk to Kessa about the situation
*	Something else?
What does Kressa recommend?
Nov 30
KESSA'S ASSESSMENT
You turn to Kessa, forcing yourself to think past your patron's screaming 
demands. "What's your read on this?"
She's been circling the chamber, studying the gate from different angles, 
careful not to get too close. Now she stops and looks at you seriously.
"Honestly? This scares the hell out of me, Johannes."
She gestures at the gate. "That thing is wrong. Like, fundamentally wrong. It's 
a hole in reality leading somewhere that shouldn't be accessible. And your 
patron desperately wants it open."
She counts on her fingers:
"What we know:
*	Three components needed to activate the gate
*	One's already here (that prism)
*	You have the second (sapphire rod)
*	Third is missing
*	The Elder Elves sealed this place for a reason
*	Madreus - whoever that is - seems to be collecting the components
*	Your patron is bound to you through a contract involving artifacts
What worries me:
*	Why does your patron want this gate open?
*	What's on the other side trying to get through?
*	If you put that rod in place with only 2 of 3 components, does it do 
anything? Or do you need all three?
*	Where's the third component?"
She pauses, thinking it through like the professional criminal she is.
"My recommendation:
First, we search this chamber thoroughly. Look for clues, documents, anything 
that tells us what this gate actually does. The Elder Elves were researchers - 
they'd have records.
Second, we examine those runes. You've got some arcane knowledge - see if 
you can figure out what happens when the gate activates.
Third - and this is important - we decide if you're actually going to do what 
the demon wants. Because once you put that rod in place, we might not be able 
to take it back out."
She looks at you with genuine concern.
"I know that thing in your chest is hurting you right now. I can see it. But 
rushing into activating an ancient dimensional portal because a fiend tells you 
to? That's how people get killed. Or worse."
She softens slightly. "I'm not saying don't do it. Maybe opening this gate is the 
key to getting free of your patron - maybe that's the 'tribute' it's been 
demanding. But let's at least understand what we're doing before we do it."
Kessa's recommendation: Investigate first, act second.
What do you want to do?
Dressage is right, proceed in her order
Nov 30
METHODICAL INVESTIGATION
"You're right," you say, fighting down your patron's rage. The fiend howls in 
your mind, but you grit your teeth and ignore it. "We investigate first. No 
rushing into this blind."
"Thank the gods you've still got your head on straight," Kessa says with relief. 
"Alright, let's work systematically."
 
STEP 1: SEARCH THE CHAMBER
You both begin searching the room for any documents, clues, or hidden 
information.
Searching the chamber for clues and documentation
 
KESSA'S DISCOVERIES
"Johannes, over here!" Kessa calls from near the eastern wall.
She's found a small alcove you initially missed - hidden behind a fold in the 
rock. Inside are several items:
1. ELDER ELF TABLETS Stone tablets covered in the flowing script of the 
Elder Elves. Most are damaged, but some sections are readable. You can make 
out warnings and technical specifications.
2. NIGEL'S JOURNAL A leather-bound journal, water-stained and worn. 
The name "Nigel Brightspark, Conjurer" is written inside the cover. This is one 
of the four who entered 27 years ago and never returned.
3. EMPTY COMPONENT CASE Near the southern pedestal, a crystalline 
case designed to hold something roughly the size of your sapphire rod. It's 
empty, but the dust patterns show something was removed recently - within 
the last few weeks or months.
"Someone's been here before us," Kessa says. "Recently. And they took the 
third component."
You nod. "Madreus. Has to be. Wellfast mentioned him."
"Read the journal first," she suggests. "Nigel might have written down what 
this gate does before he... well, before whatever happened to him."
NIGEL'S JOURNAL - READABLE ENTRIES:
You flip through the damaged pages. Many are illegible, but several key 
passages remain:
 
Day 3: We've reached the inner sanctum. The Vast Gate is even more 
magnificent than the legends suggested. A portal between realms, built by 
the Elder Elves in their hubris.
Day 5: Derek insists we should leave immediately. He's right to be afraid. 
The gate whispers. Not with sound, but with... presence. Something on the 
other side wants through.
Day 8: I've deciphered the activation mechanism. Three components work in 
concert:
*	The Crystal Prism (focuses dimensional energy)
*	The Sapphire Rod (anchors the portal)
*	The Emerald Key (controls the destination)
All three must be placed simultaneously for the gate to activate.
Day 10: Quaren has become obsessed with the gate. She stands before it for 
hours, staring into the Far Realm beyond. I fear for her sanity.
Day 12: CRITICAL DISCOVERY - The gate doesn't just open. It 
EXCHANGES. When activated, something from this side goes through... and 
something from the other side comes through. Equal mass. The Elder Elves 
used it to send exploration teams while bringing back samples.
But the creatures of the Far Realm learned to use it in reverse.
 
The next several pages are destroyed. Then one final entry:
 
Day ?: It's too late. Quaren placed two components before we could stop her. 
The gate is partially active. Things are... seeping through. Derek is dead. I've 
hidden the Emerald Key where it can never be found.
If anyone reads this: DESTROY THE COMPONENTS. Never let all three 
come together. The Far Realm must stay sealed.
 
The journal ends there.
Kessa reads over your shoulder, her face pale. "An exchange. Something goes 
through, something comes back. Equal mass."
You feel cold. Your patron has been demanding you find artifacts, bring them 
here. Is it trying to send itself through the gate? To escape back to the Far 
Realm?
Or worse... is it trying to bring something through?
What do you do now?
We should go looking for Madreus first, it doesn't commit us to anything until 
we have the 3rd component
Nov 30
TACTICAL RETREAT
"We need to find Madreus," you say, closing the journal carefully. "He has the 
third component - the Emerald Key. Without it, we can't activate the gate even 
if we wanted to."
"And more importantly," Kessa adds, "we learn what his plan is before we 
commit to anything. Smart."
Your patron rages in your mind, demanding you place the sapphire rod 
immediately, but you ignore it. The fiend can't force you - not yet. The contract 
requires you to bring tributes, but it doesn't control your actions directly.
"Plus," you continue, "if Madreus is trying to activate this gate, we need to 
know why. And stop him if necessary."
Kessa nods approvingly. "Finally, someone in this cursed mountain thinking 
with their brain instead of following orders from extradimensional entities." 
She grins. "Let's find this Madreus character."
 
LEAVING THE VAST GATE CHAMBER
You take one last look at the swirling portal. Through it, you can see shapes 
moving - patient, waiting. They've been waiting for millennia. They can wait a 
bit longer.
"The journal mentioned the Far Realm 'seeping through' when two 
components were active," you note. "Right now only one is in place. We should 
be safe leaving it like this."
"Should be," Kessa mutters. "Famous last words."
You exit through the far tunnel - the one your patron's pull was leading you 
toward before the guardian fight. The red pulsing light continues ahead.
Exploring beyond the gate chamber looking for Madreus
 
MADREUS'S SANCTUM - DISCOVERED
About 130 feet down the tunnel, you notice something Kessa almost missed - 
your military-trained eye catches it.
"Wait," you hold up a hand. "Look at the wall here."
The stone appears solid, but there's a slight difference in the air flow. A draft. 
And the red light is brighter from a specific direction.
You run your hand along the wall and find it - another secret passage, this one 
more cunningly hidden than the others.
"Good eye," Kessa whispers.
You ease the hidden door open and peer through.
 
MADREUS'S SANCTUM
The chamber beyond is clearly someone's living quarters and workspace. 
About 40 feet across, carved from the natural cave but modified with Elder Elf 
architectural elements.
Your Devil's Sight reveals:
The Room:
*	A bedroll in one corner (recently used)
*	A work table covered in papers, diagrams, and alchemical equipment
*	Shelves lined with books, scrolls, and strange specimens in jars
*	A large mirror on one wall - but it shows things that aren't in the room
*	Several glowing orbs providing red light
The Occupant: A figure sits at the work table with his back to you - 
humanoid, wearing robes. He appears to be writing something, completely 
absorbed in his work. You can hear him muttering to himself.
Most Importantly: On the table beside him, you can see it - a crystalline 
object glowing with green light. The Emerald Key. The third component.
Kessa breathes in your ear: "Is that him? Madreus?"
The figure hasn't noticed you yet. You could:
Options:
1.	Observe and listen - See what he's doing before acting
2.	Ambush him - Strike while his back is turned
3.	Announce yourself - Try to talk/negotiate
4.	Sneak in and steal the Emerald Key - Kessa could try it
5.	Something else?
What do you do?
Arcana check, are there wars or protections in place?
Nov 30
CHECKING FOR MAGICAL DEFENSES
"Hold," you whisper to Kessa. "Let me check for wards first. This is a wizard's 
sanctum - there will be protections."
You carefully examine the doorway and the chamber beyond, looking for 
telltale signs of magical traps or wards.
Arcana check to detect magical wards and protections
 
KESSA'S SHARP EYE
Kessa studies the chamber intently, her experience with breaking into noble 
estates serving her well. After a long moment, she whispers:
"Huh. That's... interesting."
"What?" you ask.
"This place is barely warded at all. I can see faint magical auras - probably 
basic alarm spells on some of his personal belongings. But the doorway? 
Clean. The Emerald Key on the table? Nothing I can detect."
You frown. "A wizard's sanctum with minimal defenses?"
"Either he's incredibly arrogant, incredibly stupid, or..." Kessa pauses, 
thinking. "Or he doesn't expect threats from this direction. Look where we are 
- deep in the Twisted Caverns, past gibberlings, past the guardian, past the 
Vast Gate itself. Who would make it this far to threaten him?"
She's right. The real defenses were the creatures and the environment. If you 
got past all of that, you'd earned access to this inner sanctum.
"Or," you add darkly, "he has other protections we can't see. Aberrations 
under his control. Contingency spells."
"True. But at least we can enter without triggering immediate alarms."
You both watch Madreus continue his work, still oblivious to your presence. 
He's hunched over documents, making notes, occasionally glancing at the 
Emerald Key with obvious hunger.
From here, you can hear his muttering more clearly:
"...almost ready... just need to coordinate with Wellfast... the gibberlings will 
provide sufficient mass... yes, yes, the exchange will work..."
He chuckles to himself - a sound without humor.
"Soon. Very soon, I'll finally leave this prison and return to-"
He stops, tilts his head as if listening to something you can't hear, then 
continues writing.
What you know:
*	Minimal magical wards (surprisingly)
*	Madreus is planning something involving "the exchange" and using 
gibberlings
*	He's working with Wellfast (who you've already robbed)
*	The Emerald Key is right there on the table
What do you do?
*	Continue observing and listening
*	Try to sneak in and steal the Emerald Key (risky but possible)
*	Confront Madreus directly
*	Ambush him while his back is turned
*	Something else?
Ambush! Hex, EB!
Nov 30
STRIKE FIRST, ASK QUESTIONS NEVER
You make the tactical decision instantly. This is the man trying to open the 
Vast Gate. He has the component you need. And his back is turned.
You signal Kessa with military hand signs: I'll hit first, you follow up.
She nods, already raising her crossbow.
You step through the doorway, Hex already forming on your lips.
Rolling initiative and surprise for Madreus ambush
 
NO SURPRISE - HE'S READY!
Your boot scrapes on stone as you enter, and Madreus's head snaps around 
with inhuman speed.
"Intruders!" he hisses, his hand already moving in an arcane gesture.
You see him clearly now - a human man, but twisted by years of exposure to 
the Far Realm. His skin has an unnatural pallor, his eyes are too large, and 
when he speaks, you see too many teeth.
He was ready for this. Somehow, he was ready.
 
ROUND 1 - INITIATIVE ORDER:
1.	Kessa (14)
2.	Madreus (14) - tied, will roll to determine who goes first
3.	Johannes (4)
Breaking initiative tie
 
MADREUS ACTS FIRST!
The conjurer's hands blur through a casting motion, and he shouts a word in a 
language that hurts to hear.
Madreus's action in round 1
 
DEMONIC REINFORCEMENTS!
Madreus speaks words of fell summoning, and reality tears open. Two 
grotesque forms materialize in bursts of sulfur and screaming - manes, the 
lowest form of demon. Twisted humanoid shapes, dripping ichor, their faces 
masks of mindless hunger.
They position themselves between you and Madreus, snarling.
"Kill them," Madreus commands, his voice cold. He begins another casting...
 
KESSA'S TURN
"Demons? Really?" Kessa snarls, firing her crossbow at Madreus over the 
manes' heads.
Kessa's attack on Madreus
Her bolt flies past Madreus's head, embedding in the wall behind him. He 
smirks.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
Finally your turn. Two manes between you and Madreus. You can either deal 
with the demons or try to hit Madreus directly.
What do you do?
Options:
*	Hex + Eldritch Blast at Madreus (shooting past the demons, might 
have disadvantage)
*	Hex + Eldritch Blast at the manes (eliminate the minions first)
*	Cast a different spell (Mirror Image for defense? Something else?)
*	Something else?
Current status:
*	You: 39/39 HP + 5 temp HP (Armor of Agathys still active)
*	Kessa: 38/38 HP
*	2 manes blocking your path to Madreus
*	Madreus: Unharmed, preparing another spell
What's your move?
Manes, one stream each hex on madreus
Nov 30
CLEARING THE PATH
"Deal with the demons first!" you shout to Kessa, already calling on your 
patron's power.
You target Madreus with Hex, dark energy coiling around him. Then you split 
your Eldritch Blast - one beam for each mane.
Johannes splits Eldritch Blast between the two manes
 
BOTH MANES WOUNDED
Your eldritch blasts slam into the demons. The first staggers backward, a 
smoking hole in its chest. The second shrieks as force energy tears through its 
shoulder.
Mane #1: 2/9 HP remaining Mane #2: 5/9 HP remaining
Both are badly wounded but still standing, still between you and Madreus.
 
END OF ROUND 1
MANES' TURNS
The wounded demons don't have the intelligence to retreat. They charge 
forward mindlessly, claws outstretched.
Manes attack Johannes and Kessa
 
DEMONIC CLAWS
The first mane lunges at you, claws raking. One misses, but the second catches 
you across the arm.
4 damage to Johannes!
*	Armor of Agathys absorbs it: 1/5 temp HP remaining
*	The mane takes 5 cold damage from Armor of Agathys 
retaliation!
*	Mane #1 is obliterated by the cold backlash! It freezes solid and shatters!
The second mane tears into Kessa with both claws, drawing blood.
4 damage to Kessa! (38/38 ? 34/38 HP)
 
ROUND 2 BEGINS
Round 2 status and initiative
 
MADREUS'S TURN - ROUND 2
Madreus sees one of his demons destroyed and you closing in. His eyes 
narrow, and he begins casting with desperate speed.
Madreus's action in round 2
Counterspell?
Nov 30
COUNTERSPELL DECISION
Madreus vanishes in a puff of arcane energy, reappearing across the room 
near his workbench - right next to the Emerald Key! He's repositioning to 
protect it.
As he begins the Fire Bolt cantrip, you could react with Counterspell to stop it.
Tactical consideration:
*	Fire Bolt will deal 10 fire damage (already rolled)
*	You have 39 HP + 1 temp HP remaining
*	Counterspell costs a 3rd level spell slot (you have 2 remaining)
*	Madreus might cast more dangerous spells later
*	The damage is relatively low
Do you want to:
1.	Counterspell the Fire Bolt (use 3rd level slot, prevent 10 damage)
2.	Let it hit (save the spell slot for a more dangerous spell later)
What's your call?
Let it hit.
Nov 30
SAVING YOUR RESOURCES
You could stop it, but a Fire Bolt isn't worth burning a precious 3rd level slot. 
You brace yourself as the flaming projectile streaks toward you.
WHOOSH!
The bolt strikes you square in the chest. Your armor heats up, the impact 
scorching your surcoat.
10 fire damage!
*	Your 1 temp HP is consumed
*	You take 9 damage to your real HP
*	Johannes: 30/39 HP
The Armor of Agathys temp HP is depleted - the cold retaliatory effect ends.
You grit your teeth through the pain. Worth it. You still have both 3rd level 
slots for when you really need them.
 
KESSA'S TURN - ROUND 2
"Johannes!" Kessa shouts, seeing you take the hit. She has a choice - finish the 
wounded mane or go for Madreus.
She makes the tactical call: finish the mane first.
Kessa attacks the wounded mane
 
MANE ELIMINATED
Kessa's bolt catches the demon right between its eyes. The sneak attack 
damage is overkill - the creature doesn't even have time to shriek before it 
collapses into sulfurous smoke and disappears.
Both manes are destroyed!
The path to Madreus is now clear.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN - ROUND 2
Your turn. Madreus is across the room near his workbench, the Emerald Key 
within his reach. No more minions between you.
Current status:
*	Johannes: 30/39 HP
*	Kessa: 34/38 HP
*	Madreus: Unharmed, Hexed, standing near the Emerald Key
*	No obstacles between you
What do you do?
*	Eldritch Blast (2 beams at Madreus with Hex bonus damage)
*	Cast a 3rd level spell (Fly to close distance? Counterspell ready?)
*	Misty Step closer (30 ft teleport, then cantrip)
*	Something else?
What's your move?
EB
Nov 30
UNLOAD ON MADREUS
With the demons gone, you have a clear shot at the conjurer. You unleash both 
beams of Eldritch Blast, Hex magnifying the damage.
Johannes's Eldritch Blast attack on Madreus
 
DEVASTATING HITS
Both beams strike true!
The first slams into Madreus's chest, eldritch force and dark necrotic energy 
tearing through his robes. He staggers back against the workbench.
18 damage!
The second catches him in the shoulder, spinning him around.
10 damage!
Total: 28 damage! Madreus is at 17/45 HP!
He's badly wounded, blood dripping from multiple injuries. His face contorts 
with pain and rage.
"Enough!" he screams, his hand shooting out to grab the Emerald Key.
 
END OF ROUND 2
ROUND 3 - MADREUS'S TURN
The conjurer is desperate now. He clutches the Emerald Key to his chest and 
begins casting with frantic speed.
Ranpython3 << 'EOF' import random print("MADREUS - ROUND 
3 (DESPERATE)") print("=" * 50) print("\nMadreus is 
bloodied (17/45 HP)") print("Holding the Emerald Key") 
print("Desperate action...") # Desperate wizard options 
action = random.randint(1, 6) actions = { 1: "Dimension 
Door - ESCAPE with Emerald Key", 2: "Misty Step to Gate 
chamber - try to activate it", 3: "Desperate Fireball - 
suicide attack", 4: "Polymorph self - turn into something 
dangerous", 5: "Greater Invisibility - vanish with the 
Key", 6: "Banishment on Johannes - send him away" } 
print(f"\nMadreus casts: {actions[action]}") if action == 
1: print("\n>>> DIMENSION DOOR!") print("Madreus 
vanishes, teleporting 500 feet away!") print("He takes 
the Emerald Key with him!") print("You hear his voice 
echo: 'You're too late! The exchange will happen!'") 
escape = True elif action == 2: print("\n>>> MISTY 
STEP!") print("Teleports toward the exit - trying to 
reach the Gate!") print("Running with the Emerald Key!") 
escape = "attempted" elif action == 3: print("\n>>> 
FIREBALL - DANGER CLOSE!") print("Casting at his own 
position to hit you both!") print("He'll take damage too 
but doesn't care!") base_dmg = sum([random.randint(1, 6) 
for _ in range(8)]) print(f"\nDamage: {base_dmg}") 
print("DEX saves DC 15 required!") j_save = 
random.randint(1, 20) + 2 k_save = random.randint(1, 20) 
+ 2 print(f"Johannes: {j_save}") print(f"Kessa: 
{k_save}") elif action == 4: print("\n>>> POLYMORPH!") 
print("Transforms into a Giant Ape!") print("HP resets to 
ape's HP pool!") print("Still holding Emerald Key in ape 
hand!") elif action == 5: print("\n>>> GREATER 
INVISIBILITY!") print("Madreus and the Emerald Key 
vanish!") print("Remains invisible even while acting!") 
print("You can't see where he is!") elif action == 6: 
print("\n>>> BANISHMENT on Johannes!") print("Trying to 
send you to another plane!") print("CHA save DC 15 
required!") save = random.randint(1, 20) + 3 
print(f"Johannes CHA save: {save}") if save >=
Counterspell
Nov 30
COUNTERSPELL!
You see Madreus beginning to cast - his hands moving in the complex gestures 
of a powerful spell, the Emerald Key clutched against his chest. Whatever he's 
doing, you can't let him finish it.
"Not today!" you snarl, throwing out your hand and speaking the words of 
Counterspell.
Johannes uses Counterspell to stop Madreus's spell
 
SPELL SHUT DOWN
Your Counterspell tears through Madreus's casting, unraveling the magical 
energies before they can take effect. Whatever he was trying to do - escape, 
attack, transform - it dies before completion.
The magical backlash staggers him. He looks at you with genuine fear now.
"No! NO!" he screams, still clutching the Emerald Key. "I will not be trapped 
here! I WILL NOT!"
 
KESSA'S TURN - ROUND 3
"He's panicking!" Kessa shouts. "Finish him!"
She fires at the wounded conjurer.
Kessa attacks Madreus
 
KESSA'S BOLT STRIKES
Her crossbow bolt punches into Madreus's side. He gasps, stumbling, barely 
staying on his feet.
14 damage! Madreus at 3/45 HP!
He's on death's door, bleeding profusely, barely conscious. But he's still 
standing, still holding the Emerald Key with white-knuckled desperation.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN - ROUND 3
He's practically dead. One more hit will finish it.
What do you do?
*	Eldritch Blast - Finish him (almost guaranteed kill)
*	Try to talk him down - He's beaten, maybe he'll surrender?
*	Non-lethal takedown - Try to knock him out instead of killing him
*	Something else?
Your call - kill him or try to capture him alive?
Non lethal. We need answers
Nov 30
NON-LETHAL TAKEDOWN
"We need him alive!" you shout to Kessa. "He knows what's happening with 
the gate!"
You aim carefully, switching your Eldritch Blast to strike to incapacitate rather 
than kill.
Non-lethal Eldritch Blast to capture Madreus alive
 
MADREUS SUBDUED
Your eldritch beam strikes him in the chest with just enough force to knock 
him out. He crumples to the floor, unconscious but breathing.
Clatter!
The Emerald Key falls from his limp fingers, rolling across the stone floor. The 
crystalline object glows with internal green light, pulsing with power.
COMBAT OVER - VICTORY!
Combat summary and next steps
 
AFTERMATH
Silence falls over Madreus's sanctum. The conjurer lies unconscious on the 
floor, his breathing shallow but steady. The Emerald Key gleams nearby, the 
final component needed to activate the Vast Gate.
Kessa moves quickly, pulling rope from her pack. "I'll tie him up. You grab 
that Key before anything else does."
You pick up the Emerald Key carefully. It's warm to the touch, thrumming 
with power. Through it, you can almost feel the Vast Gate calling, hungry to be 
complete.
Your patron surges in your mind: YES. THE KEY. NOW YOU HAVE 
TWO. BRING THEM TO THE GATE. COMPLETE IT.
You ignore the fiend's demands and pocket the Key next to the sapphire rod.
"He's secure," Kessa says, finishing the knots. "Not going anywhere. What 
now?"
You look around the sanctum - workbenches covered in documents, shelves 
full of books and specimens, that strange mirror on the wall.
What do you want to do?
1.	Search the sanctum thoroughly - Look for information about the 
gate, Madreus's plans, anything useful
2.	Wake and interrogate Madreus - Use Kessa's Cure Wounds to wake 
him, question him
3.	Examine the mirror - Kessa mentioned it shows things not in the 
room
4.	Short rest here - Recover some HP and spell slots before proceeding
5.	Head back to the Vast Gate - You have answers to make about what 
to do next
6.	Something else?
What's your priority?
Search, then short rest
Nov 30
THOROUGH INVESTIGATION
"Let's search this place top to bottom," you say. "Then rest while we decide 
what to do with him and those components."
"Agreed. Let me heal us first though - we both took hits."
Kessa casts Cure Wounds on herself, then on you.
Kessa heals the party
Better. The healing magic closes your burns and cuts. You're almost back to 
full strength.
 
SEARCHING MADREUS'S SANCTUM
You both systematically search the chamber while Madreus remains 
unconscious and bound.
Searching Madreus's sanctum
 
EXCEPTIONAL DISCOVERIES
Your military thoroughness combined with Kessa's sharp eye 
uncovers everything in the sanctum.
1. MADREUS'S JOURNAL
A detailed log of his decades trapped in Firestorm Peak. Key entries:
"Year 1: The comet appeared. We came seeking knowledge of the Elder Elves. 
We were fools."
"Year 3: Nigel is dead. Quaren transformed into something... else. Derek 
consumed by gibberlings. Only I remain, trapped when the gates sealed. 
Twenty-seven years until they open again."
"Year 15: I have made contact with entities beyond the Vast Gate. They 
promise me escape if I help them cross over. The 'exchange' - something of 
equal mass goes through when something comes back."
"Year 27: Finally! The comet returns! I've spent decades preparing. The 
gibberlings in stasis - three of them, carefully cultivated to the right mass. 
When the gate activates, they go through... and THREE entities from the Far 
Realm come here. My patrons. My salvation."
"They will grant me passage home. All I need is to assemble the three 
components and activate the gate. Wellfast has the rod. The prism was 
already here. I took the key from Nigel's hiding place."
2. CORRESPONDENCE WITH WELLFAST
Letters between Madreus and the Duergar commander:
*	Wellfast provides supplies and guards the upper complex
*	Madreus provides magical aid and promises of power
*	They plan to activate the gate "when the time is right"
*	Wellfast doesn't fully understand what will come through
3. RITUAL DIAGRAMS
Detailed instructions for activating the Vast Gate:
*	All three components must be placed in their pedestals simultaneously
*	The runes on the floor must be activated in sequence
*	The exchange happens automatically once activated
*	WARNING in Madreus's handwriting: "Once started, the 
exchange cannot be stopped. Whatever mass crosses one way, equal 
mass crosses the other."
4. THE SCRYING MIRROR
Kessa examines the mirror closely. "This is showing the Vast Gate chamber. 
Right now. Live."
You look - she's right. The mirror displays the gate chamber where you fought 
the guardian. The swirling portal, the three pedestals (one with the prism, two 
empty), the glowing runes.
"He's been watching it this whole time," you realize.
5. PERSONAL EFFECTS
*	Spellbook (conjuration specialist)
*	Alchemical components worth ~200gp
*	A locket with a picture of a woman and child (his family, from before he 
was trapped)
*	Small personal wealth: 75gp, 30sp
6. HIDDEN COMPARTMENT
Behind a loose stone, you find:
*	2 healing potions
*	A scroll of Misty Step
*	A desperate note: "If I fail, if the entities betray me, if I cannot escape - 
may whoever finds this know: I only wanted to go home. Twenty-
seven years is too long."
 
Kessa sits back, holding Madreus's journal. "Gods. He's been trapped here for 
twenty-seven years. Since the last time the comet appeared. Everyone else 
died or transformed. He's been alone all this time, slowly going mad."
She looks at the unconscious conjurer. "He's not trying to conquer the world. 
He just wants to escape. And he made a deal with Far Realm entities to do it."
What you now know:
*	Madreus plans to send the three stasis gibberlings through the gate
*	Three Far Realm entities will come through in exchange
*	Those entities promised Madreus passage home
*	Wellfast is complicit but doesn't know the full plan
*	The gate activation cannot be stopped once started
*	Madreus has been trapped here for 27 years
Your patron screams in your mind, demanding you complete the 
gate. But now you understand more of what that means.
What do you do?
1.	Wake and interrogate Madreus - Get his side of the story
2.	Begin short rest - Recover before making decisions
3.	Examine the scrying mirror more closely - See if it shows 
anything else
4.	Read through Madreus's spellbook - Might have useful 
information
5.	Something else?
Examine, then read, then rest.
Nov 30
METHODICAL INVESTIGATION
"Let's be thorough," you say. "Mirror first, then the spellbook, then we rest 
and decide what to do."
 
EXAMINING THE SCRYING MIRROR
You and Kessa study the mirror carefully. It's showing the Vast Gate chamber 
in real-time - you can see the portal swirling, the pedestals, the runes glowing 
faintly.
Examining the scrying mirror
The mirror is clearly magical, showing the Vast Gate chamber, but you can't 
determine much more than that without deeper arcane knowledge. It's a 
monitoring device - Madreus watched the gate from here.
"Convenient for him," Kessa notes. "Stay safe in his sanctum while keeping an 
eye on his prize."
 
READING MADREUS'S SPELLBOOK
You open the conjurer's spellbook carefully. It's filled with intricate spell 
formulas and notes.
Reading Madreus's spellbook and notes
The spellbook reveals Madreus's expertise in conjuration - summoning, 
teleportation, and dimensional travel. His notes about the gate become 
increasingly frantic and hard to read, suggesting his mental state deteriorated 
over the years of isolation.
"Twenty-seven years alone in these caves," Kessa murmurs. "I'd go mad too."
 
SHORT REST
You've gathered all the information you can. Time to rest and recover.
"Let's barricade the door and rest here," you say. "We need to be at full 
strength before we decide what to do next."
Kessa nods, checking Madreus's bindings. "He's still out cold. We've got time."
Short rest to recover HP and spell slots
 
FULLY RECOVERED
You both wake from the rest feeling restored. An hour has passed. Madreus is 
still unconscious, bound securely.
Your patron continues its incessant pressure: THE COMPONENTS. THE 
GATE. COMPLETE IT. NOW.
But you have a choice to make.
WHAT YOU KNOW:
1.	The Vast Gate Exchange: When activated, equal mass crosses both 
ways. Three gibberlings would go through, three Far Realm entities 
would come here.
2.	Your Patron: Clearly wants the gate activated. Is it trying to escape TO 
the Far Realm? Or bring something FROM it?
3.	Madreus: Trapped for 27 years, made a desperate deal with Far Realm 
entities. Probably hasn't thought through all the consequences.
4.	Nigel's Warning: "Destroy the components. Never let all three come 
together."
5.	Time Pressure: The comet will be visible for about 25-26 more days 
before the gates seal again.
YOUR OPTIONS:
A) Activate the Gate (do what your patron wants)
*	Place all three components
*	The exchange happens
*	Find out what your patron really wants
*	Risk: Unknown Far Realm entities enter this world
B) Destroy the Components
*	Follow Nigel's warning
*	Prevent the gate from ever being activated
*	Your patron will be furious
*	Consequence: Unknown (breaking your contract terms?)
C) Wake and Question Madreus First
*	Get more information before deciding
*	Learn what the Far Realm entities promised
*	Maybe find a third option
D) Take the Components and Leave
*	Remove them from Firestorm Peak
*	Prevent anyone from using the gate
*	Figure out what to do with them later
*	Your patron remains unsatisfied
E) Something Else?
Kessa is watching you carefully. "What are you thinking, Johannes?"
What do you do?
Who ever has the better intimidate wakes madreus
Nov 30
WAKE THE PRISONER
"We need answers before we make any decisions," you say. "Wake him up. 
Let's find out what he really knows."
Kessa nods and examines Madreus. "He's stable at zero hit points. I can either 
heal him awake with Cure Wounds, or we can just wait and let him wake 
naturally. Might take a while though."
"Heal him. We don't have time to wait."
She casts Cure Wounds, and Madreus gasps awake, eyes flying open.
Waking Madreus and intimidation check
 
KESSA'S INTERROGATION
Madreus's eyes focus, taking in his situation - bound, beaten, his sanctum 
ransacked, both of you standing over him. The Emerald Key is gone from 
where it fell.
Kessa crouches down, her face inches from his. When she speaks, her voice is 
cold and dangerous - nothing like her usual playful tone.
"Listen very carefully, conjurer. You're going to answer every question we ask. 
Truthfully. Completely. Because if you don't..."
She pulls out her dagger, lets the light catch the edge.
"Twenty-seven years trapped in these caves, and you're this close to escape. 
Would be a shame if something happened to those components you need. Or 
to you."
Madreus swallows hard, his eyes wide with fear. He's seen what you both can 
do in combat. He knows he's completely at your mercy.
"W-what do you want to know?" he stammers.
Kessa glances at you. "Your show, Johannes. What do we ask him?"
INTERROGATION TIME
Madreus is thoroughly intimidated and will answer your questions honestly. 
What do you want to know?
Suggested questions (pick any or all):
1.	What exactly did the Far Realm entities promise you?
2.	What are these three entities? What do they want?
3.	What happens to you when the exchange occurs?
4.	Why does Johannes's patron want this gate opened?
5.	Is there any way to use the gate without bringing the entities through?
6.	What happens if we destroy the components instead?
7.	Can the gate send someone TO the Far Realm instead of bringing things 
FROM it?
8.	What do you know about breaking infernal contracts?
Or ask your own questions. What do you want to know?
All...
Nov 30
THE COMPLETE INTERROGATION
"Answer everything," you say, pulling up a chair and sitting down in front of 
the bound conjurer. "Start with the Far Realm entities. What exactly did they 
promise you?"
Madreus licks his dry lips, eyes darting between you and Kessa's dagger.
 
1. WHAT DID THE FAR REALM ENTITIES PROMISE?
"They... they contacted me through the gate. About ten years into my 
imprisonment. Whispered promises through the veil between worlds."
He swallows hard.
"They said: 'Bring us through. Open the way. In exchange, when we cross over, 
we will grant you passage to any realm you desire. You will finally leave this 
prison.'"
"They showed me visions of home. My wife. My daughter. Twenty-seven years, 
and they'd be... she'd be forty now. My little girl..." His voice cracks.
"I was desperate. I am desperate. I just want to go home."
 
2. WHAT ARE THESE THREE ENTITIES? WHAT DO THEY WANT?
Madreus shudders.
"They call themselves the Triad of Unmaking. Far Realm entities - not 
demons, not devils, but things from beyond. Where reality has different 
rules."
"They want... they want to experience this reality. To taste it, they said. 
They're curious about our world. Fascinated by linear time, by cause and 
effect, by matter that doesn't shift based on observation."
His eyes go distant.
"But I've studied them for years. I don't think they understand how destructive 
their mere presence would be. They're like... like children wanting to play with 
a fragile toy, not realizing they'll break it."
"What they want doesn't matter. What matters is they can cross through, and 
in doing so, they promised I could leave."
 
3. WHAT HAPPENS TO YOU WHEN THE EXCHANGE OCCURS?
Here, Madreus's expression turns bitter.
"That's the question I've been asking myself. The exchange requires equal 
mass. Three gibberlings out, three entities in. The mechanics are automatic."
"But there's no mechanism for sending ME through. I've studied it 
obsessively."
He looks at you with haunted eyes.
"I think... I think they lied to me. Or I misunderstood. They said they would 
'grant me passage to any realm' - but they never said when. Maybe after they 
cross over, they'll use their powers to send me somewhere. Maybe they'll just 
leave me here. Maybe they'll kill me for being useful."
"I don't know. And I'm terrified to find out. But what choice do I have? 
Twenty-seven years! The comet is here NOW. If I don't act, I'll be trapped for 
another cycle. I'll be fifty-four when it returns! If I even survive that long!"
His desperation is palpable.
 
4. WHY DOES JOHANNES'S PATRON WANT THIS GATE 
OPENED?
Madreus focuses on you, noticing something.
"You're... you're bound to something. I can see it. Infernal magic." He squints. 
"A fiend patron. Warlock."
He thinks for a moment.
"I don't know your specific patron, but I can guess. Fiends are trapped in the 
Lower Planes by cosmic law. They can only manifest in this world through 
summoning or possession. But the Vast Gate? It's not summoning. 
It's exchange."
"If your patron could get itself - or something it controls - to the Far Realm 
side of the gate, it could cross over. Permanently. Fully manifested in this 
world with no binding circle, no contract limitations."
His eyes widen.
"Gods. Is that what this is about? Your fiend sent you here to open the gate so 
IT can come through?"
 
5. IS THERE ANY WAY TO USE THE GATE WITHOUT BRINGING 
THE ENTITIES THROUGH?
"Yes," he says immediately. "The gate has two functions. Exchange is 
automatic, yes - but only if there's something on BOTH sides ready to cross."
"If nothing is waiting on the Far Realm side, you could send something 
through without anything coming back. Or vice versa."
"The problem is the Triad. They're waiting. They're ready. The moment the 
gate activates, they'll cross. There's no way to stop them once it starts."
He pauses.
"Unless... unless you could somehow prevent them from crossing at the exact 
moment of activation. But how? They're on the other side of reality itself."
 
6. WHAT HAPPENS IF WE DESTROY THE COMPONENTS?
Madreus goes pale.
"The gate becomes permanently inert. The Elder Elves designed it that way - 
failsafe against misuse. Destroying even one component makes the others 
useless."
"The Vast Gate would just be... a window. You could look through, but never 
pass."
"For me, it means I stay trapped here until I die. For the Triad, it means they 
never get to cross."
"For your patron..." He looks at you significantly. "Well, that depends on your 
contract, doesn't it?"
 
7. CAN THE GATE SEND SOMEONE TO THE FAR REALM 
INSTEAD?
"Theoretically, yes. The exchange works both ways. But..."
He shakes his head.
"The Far Realm is not meant for beings like us. Reality there is... wrong. Time 
doesn't flow linearly. Space isn't constant. Your mind would unravel within 
minutes. Your body would follow shortly after."
"The only way to survive there would be with powerful protective magic. And 
even then, you'd be at the mercy of whatever entities call that place home."
"It's not escape. It's a different kind of prison. Worse, probably."
 
8. WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT BREAKING INFERNAL 
CONTRACTS?
Madreus considers this carefully.
"Infernal contracts are binding cosmic law. Breaking them is nearly 
impossible. The fiend always includes clauses to protect itself."
"But there are a few ways:"
"First: Find a loophole. Every contract has wording. If you can interpret the 
terms in a way that fulfills the letter while subverting the spirit, you might 
escape. But fiends are masters of contract law."
"Second: Fulfill the contract completely. Whatever you owe, pay it in full. 
Then you're free."
"Third: Find something the fiend wants MORE than your service. Trade up. 
Offer it something so valuable it willingly releases you."
"Fourth: Powerful divine intervention. A god or celestial being with enough 
power to override infernal law. Practically impossible."
"Fifth: The fiend's true name. If you learn it and speak it with the right ritual, 
you can bind the fiend instead of being bound BY it. Turn the tables entirely."
He looks at you with something like pity.
"But those are all nearly impossible. Most warlocks serve until death. 
Sometimes beyond."
 
INTERROGATION COMPLETE
Madreus slumps in his bonds, exhausted from talking.
Kessa looks at you, processing everything you've learned.
"So to summarize," she says quietly:
*	The Triad wants to cross over; they're waiting on the other side
*	Madreus doesn't actually have a guaranteed escape plan
*	Your patron probably wants to use the gate to cross over permanently
*	The gate can be used without bringing things through, but not with the 
Triad waiting
*	Destroying components ends the threat but leaves Madreus trapped
*	Breaking your infernal contract has five theoretical methods, all nearly 
impossible
"What now?" she asks.
What do you do?
Can madreus just leave with you without the gate?
Nov 30
THE OBVIOUS QUESTION
You stare at Madreus. "Wait. Why do you even need the gate? We just walked 
in here from outside. The crystal gates are open. You can just... leave. With us. 
Right now."
Madreus's face twists with something between anger and despair.
"You think I haven't tried?" he spits. "For twenty-seven years, you think I 
didn't try to escape?"
He takes a shuddering breath.
"When the comet appeared and the crystal gates opened, we came in - all four 
of us. Nigel, Derek, Quaren, and me. We explored. We found the Vast Gate. 
Quaren became obsessed, started activating it partially. Derek tried to stop 
her. He died. Nigel and I fled."
"But by then, something had changed. We couldn't leave."
Kessa frowns. "What do you mean couldn't leave?"
"I mean the mountain wouldn't LET us," Madreus says bitterly. "The crystal 
gates - they're open, yes. You can see through them. Walk up to them. But 
when I try to pass through..."
He shudders.
"It's like walking into an invisible wall. Solid. Impenetrable. I've tried every 
spell I know. Dimension Door, Misty Step, Etherealness when I could cast it. 
Nothing works. The mountain itself has claimed me."
"Nigel figured it out before he died. The Vast Gate leaked Far Realm energy 
when Quaren partially activated it. That energy... marked us. Changed us. 
Made us part of this place. Connected to it."
He looks at his hands.
"I'm bound to Firestorm Peak now. As long as the Vast Gate exists and the 
comet is in the sky, I cannot leave through normal means. The Elder Elves 
built failsafes - if someone starts opening the gate, they're trapped until it's 
properly sealed again. Prevents people from opening it and then fleeing the 
consequences."
"The only way I can leave is through the gate itself. Through the exchange. 
Or..." He trails off.
"Or what?" you demand.
"Or if the gate is completely destroyed. Rendered permanently inert. That 
would break the binding. But then I'd have wasted twenty-seven years for 
nothing, and I'd have to walk out past all the Duergar, past the gibberlings, 
past everything that wants me dead."
He laughs bitterly.
"At least with the Triad's plan, I had a chance. A slim, desperate, probably-
suicidal chance. But a chance."
Kessa looks at you. "So if we destroy the components, he can leave. But he'd 
have to survive the journey out. And he's barely alive as it is."
Madreus nods weakly. "Three hit points. No spell slots. Bound and beaten. 
Even if you freed me, I'd never make it past the first checkpoint."
New information:
*	Madreus is magically bound to the mountain due to Far Realm 
contamination
*	He cannot pass through the crystal gates normally
*	Destroying the gate components would FREE him from the binding
*	But he'd still need to survive the journey out (very low HP, no resources)
*	The gate exchange might work because it bypasses the binding entirely
"So your options are," Kessa counts on her fingers, "use the gate and risk the 
Triad killing you anyway, or destroy it and hope you can survive getting out."
Madreus nods miserably.
Does this change your thinking? What do you want to do?
How can I survive my patrons displeasure is i destroy the gate?
Nov 30
THE CRITICAL QUESTION
You turn back to Madreus. "If I destroy the gate - refuse to activate it - how do 
I survive my patron's displeasure?"
Madreus studies you carefully, seeming to understand the weight of what 
you're asking.
"That depends on the exact terms of your contract. What does it require of 
you?"
You consider how much to reveal. "I'm bound to bring it... tributes. Powerful 
artifacts. Objects of significance. If I don't, it kills people around me as 
payment instead."
"And it's been pulling you here," Madreus says. "Demanding you open this 
gate. But is THAT specifically in your contract? Or is the gate just another 
tribute it wants?"
You pause. That's... a good question. Your patron has been screaming at you to 
open the gate, but the actual contract terms are about bringing artifacts as 
tributes.
Madreus continues: "If opening the gate isn't explicitly required by your 
contract's wording, then refusing is just... disappointing your patron. Painful, 
yes. It will punish you. But it can't break the contract from its side unless you 
violate the actual terms."
Kessa jumps in. "The sapphire rod and emerald key - those are powerful 
artifacts, right? What if you give those to your patron as tributes WITHOUT 
activating the gate? You'd be fulfilling your contract without opening the gate."
Madreus nods slowly. "Clever. The components themselves are incredibly 
valuable magical items. If your contract just requires powerful artifacts, not 
specifically opening the gate, that might satisfy the terms."
"But," he warns, "your patron will be furious. It clearly WANTS the gate open. 
Giving it the components without using them is like... handing a starving man 
ingredients instead of a meal."
"It might punish you severely. Test the boundaries of the contract. Make your 
life hell. But if you haven't technically broken your oath..."
He looks at you seriously.
"Here's what I know about infernal contracts: They're bound by cosmic law. 
The fiend MUST honor the exact wording. But that cuts both ways. You must 
honor YOUR exact wording too."
"So ask yourself: What exactly did you promise?"
What ARE the exact terms of your contract with your patron? Do 
you:
1.	Have to open the gate specifically? (Then you're bound to do it)
2.	Have to bring powerful artifacts as tribute? (Then the 
components themselves might count)
3.	Have to do whatever your patron demands? (Then you're in 
trouble)
4.	Something else?
This is a crucial detail about Johannes's backstory. What were the exact terms 
when he made his pact with the fiend?
Artifacts only. Dm question: is the patron supernatural aware of what i am 
thinking or saying?
Nov 30
DM ANSWER: PATRON AWARENESS
Good question! Here's how the fiend patron connection typically works:
What your patron CAN sense:
*	Your general location
*	Your emotional state (fear, anger, determination)
*	When you use warlock powers (it's channeling through the pact)
*	The "pull" it creates (like a leash tugging you toward something it wants)
*	When you're near objects/places it's interested in (hence the intense pull 
near the gate)
What your patron CANNOT sense:
*	Your specific thoughts (you're not telepathically linked)
*	Your exact words unless you're directly addressing it
*	Your plans unless you tell it
*	What's happening around you in detail
The connection is more like:
*	A one-way emotional pressure/compulsion from it to you
*	A sense of its hunger/desire
*	Pain or discomfort when you resist its will
*	But NOT mind-reading
So right now:
*	Your patron knows you're near the gate (massive interest)
*	It senses you have the components (they're radiating power)
*	It's screaming at you to complete the gate (constant pressure)
*	But it does NOT know you're considering destroying them or giving 
them as tribute instead
You can make your decision without it knowing until you act.
 
BACK IN CHARACTER
So the terms are artifacts only. You're required to bring your patron powerful 
artifacts as tribute, not specifically to open gates or follow its every whim.
Madreus's eyes light up slightly. "Then you have leverage. The contract doesn't 
require you to open the gate. Your patron can't force you."
"It will be FURIOUS," he emphasizes. "The punishment will be severe. But if 
you give it the components as tribute - two incredibly powerful Elder Elf 
artifacts - you're technically fulfilling your contract."
Kessa grins. "Malicious compliance. I like it."
Your options are becoming clearer:
A) Activate the Gate
*	Fulfill your patron's obvious desire
*	Risk: Triad crosses over, unknown consequences
*	Madreus might escape (or might die)
B) Destroy the Components
*	Prevent the gate from ever opening
*	Madreus can leave (if he survives the journey)
*	Patron gets NOTHING - severe punishment likely
*	Might violate contract if components are considered "tribute owed"
C) Give Components as Tribute (WITHOUT activating gate)
*	Fulfill contract letter (artifacts as tribute)
*	Violate contract spirit (patron wanted gate opened)
*	Patron furious but cannot break contract
*	Madreus freed from binding, components gone
D) Something creative?
What do you want to do?
Can the two components somehow free the 3rd?
Nov 30
CREATIVE THINKING
"Wait," you say, an idea forming. "The crystal prism is already at the gate. We 
have the rod and the key. If we destroy these two components, does that free 
the third one from the pedestal? Break the binding on it?"
Madreus considers this carefully.
"The prism is locked in place by Elder Elf magic. It's been there for millennia, 
waiting for the other components. But..."
He thinks harder.
"If the other two components are destroyed - rendered permanently inert - 
then yes, the failsafe would trigger. The prism would be released. It becomes 
just... a valuable crystal. Powerless as a gate component, but still a functional 
magical item on its own."
"Why?" Kessa asks. "What are you thinking?"
You're working it through. "If I destroy the rod and key, that makes the gate 
permanently unusable. Madreus gets freed from his binding. The prism is 
released and I can take it as tribute to my patron."
"One artifact instead of two," Madreus notes. "Will that satisfy your contract?"
That's the question. Your patron has been demanding tribute - does it require 
a specific amount? Or just powerful artifacts periodically?
Analyzing the destroy-two-save-one plan
 
Madreus is listening intently. "That... could work. The prism alone is an 
artifact of immense power. Elder Elf crystallography at its finest. Your patron 
might accept it."
"Might," Kessa emphasizes. "Not 'will.'"
"True," Madreus admits. "But it's better than nothing. And if your contract 
just requires 'powerful artifacts' without specifying quantity..."
You nod slowly. It's a gamble. Your patron will be furious that you didn't open 
the gate. But if the contract only requires you to bring artifacts - singular or 
plural - then one incredibly powerful Elder Elf prism should technically fulfill 
the terms.
The punishment for disappointing it will hurt. But it won't be able to break the 
contract.
"If we do this," you say, "you're still stuck in these caves at three hit points. 
You'll never make it out alone."
Madreus looks at you hopefully. "You'd... help me? After I tried to summon 
Far Realm entities into this world?"
"You were desperate and alone for twenty-seven years," Kessa says quietly. 
"I've done worse for less."
You consider. Escorting Madreus out would mean:
*	Backtracking through the gibberling chamber (they're still sleeping)
*	Past the checkpoint (you snuck through, could do it again)
*	Through the Duergar areas (risky but doable)
*	To the crystal gates and out
With you and Kessa protecting him, his chances improve dramatically.
Final decision time:
THE PLAN:
1.	Destroy the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key (gate becomes permanently 
inert)
2.	Return to gate chamber, retrieve the Crystal Prism (freed by failsafe)
3.	Give prism to your patron as tribute (fulfills contract)
4.	Escort Madreus out of Firestorm Peak (save his life)
Do you commit to this plan?
Or do you want to modify it somehow?
I only destroy 1 and take 2 for an offering. They're over as to the gate, but 
meet the requirements of the pact.
Nov 30
BETTER PLAN
"Wait," you say. "Why destroy both? I destroy ONE component - say, the 
prism that's already at the gate. That makes the gate permanently inert. Then I 
take the rod and key as tribute. Two powerful artifacts for my patron."
Madreus's eyes widen. "That's... brilliant. The gate becomes useless, but your 
patron gets two Elder Elf artifacts instead of one."
"And I'm technically fulfilling my contract," you continue. "Two powerful 
artifacts as tribute. The fact that they CAN'T be used to open the gate anymore 
isn't my problem."
Kessa grins. "Malicious compliance at its finest. Your patron can't complain 
you didn't bring tribute. You brought TWO incredibly valuable magical items."
"It still won't get what it WANTED," Madreus warns. "The gate will be useless. 
The Triad won't cross. Your patron's plan - whatever it was - fails completely."
"But the contract is fulfilled," you insist.
Madreus nods slowly. "Yes. The contract would be fulfilled. Your patron will 
be absolutely livid, but bound by cosmic law to honor the terms. You've given 
tribute. You've held up your end."
He actually smiles slightly. "And destroying the prism frees me from the 
binding. I can leave. With your help, I might actually survive."
REVISED PLAN:
1.	Return to the Vast Gate chamber
2.	Destroy the Crystal Prism (gate becomes permanently inert, Madreus 
freed)
3.	Take the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key as tribute to your patron
4.	Escort Madreus out of Firestorm Peak
CONSEQUENCES:
*	? Gate permanently disabled (no Triad crossing)
*	? Madreus freed and can escape
*	? TWO powerful artifacts for your patron (better than one)
*	? Contract technically fulfilled
*	? Patron's actual goal (opening gate) completely thwarted
*	? Severe punishment likely, but within contract bounds
"This works," Kessa says. "Let's do it."
Madreus looks at you with genuine gratitude. "Thank you. I... I don't deserve 
this mercy, but thank you."
Do you proceed with this plan?
If yes, we'll head to the Vast Gate chamber and execute it.
L let's go
Nov 30
SETTING OUT
"Let's move," you say, standing up. "We destroy the prism, take the other two 
components, and get out of here."
You cut Madreus's bonds. He staggers to his feet, barely able to stand at 3 hit 
points. Kessa steadies him.
"Can you walk?" she asks.
"I'll manage," he says weakly. "Twenty-seven years of waiting. I can walk a few 
more hours."
You gather your gear, pocket the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key securely, and 
head for the door.
 
RETURNING TO THE VAST GATE CHAMBER
The journey back is tense but uneventful. You retrace your steps:
*	Through Madreus's sanctum exit
*	Down the tunnel toward the gate chamber
*	Past where you fought the guardian (its stain still marks the floor)
As you approach the chamber entrance, you can see the Vast Gate swirling 
ahead, pulsing with that eerie red light.
Arriving at the Vast Gate chamber
 
OMINOUS PRESENCE
You step into the chamber and immediately feel it - the gate is MUCH more 
active than when you left.
The swirling colors move faster, more urgently. And through the translucent 
portal, you can see them clearly now: three massive shapes pressing against 
the veil between worlds.
The Triad of Unmaking.
They're AWARE of you. Watching. Waiting.
"They know," Madreus whispers, fear in his voice. "They know you have the 
components."
The shapes pulse, and you hear - not with your ears, but in your MIND - a 
chorus of alien voices:
"BEARER OF THE KEY. BEARER OF THE ROD. WE HAVE 
WAITED MILLENNIA. COMPLETE THE EXCHANGE. FREE US. 
WE OFFER PASSAGE. WE OFFER POWER. WE OFFER-"
The voices cut off as you deliberately look away from the gate, breaking the 
connection.
"Don't listen to them," Madreus warns. "They'll try to bargain, to tempt, to 
threaten. Focus on the plan."
Your patron is screaming too: YES! THEY ARE READY! COMPLETE IT! 
THE ROD! THE KEY! NOW!
But you ignore both.
"Kessa, stay with Madreus. I'm getting the prism."
You approach the north pedestal. The Crystal Prism sits there, glowing with 
inner light, humming with power. It's beautiful - perfectly cut, radiating 
rainbow colors.
And you're about to destroy it.
Preparing to destroy the crystal prism
You reach for the prism. As your hand approaches, both the Triad AND your 
patron assault your mind simultaneously:
"NO! STOP! COMPLETE US!" - The Triad
"FOOL! OBEY! BRING THE TRIBUTE BUT ACTIVATE THE 
GATE!" - Your Patron
The pressure is immense. Your head pounds. Both entities are trying to force 
your compliance.
How do you destroy the Crystal Prism?
Choose your method, and let's end this.
Eb both barrels
Nov 30
POINT OF NO RETURN
You ignore the screaming voices, raise both hands, and channel your warlock 
power.
"This ends now."
Destroying the crystal prism with Eldritch Blast
 
DESTRUCTION
Both beams of eldritch force strike the Crystal Prism simultaneously.
For a moment, the artifact resists - millennia of Elder Elf craftsmanship 
holding against your power. Rainbow light flares, trying to absorb the energy.
Then-
CRACK!
A fracture line appears. Then another. The prism's glow intensifies to blinding 
brightness.
SHATTER!
The Crystal Prism explodes into a thousand glittering fragments. Shards of 
crystallized light scatter across the chamber floor, their magic dissipating like 
smoke.
 
THE CONSEQUENCES
The moment the prism breaks, everything changes:
THE VAST GATE: The swirling portal lurches, its colors dimming. The 
shapes on the other side - the Triad - press desperately against the barrier, but 
they're fading. The gate is losing cohesion without all three components.
You hear their alien voices one final time, fading into distance:
"NO! WE WERE SO CLOSE! CURSE YOU, MORTAL! WE WILL 
REMEMBER-"
Then silence. The gate becomes still, dormant. No longer a portal, just a 
window to an unreachable place. The Triad cannot cross. They never will.
MADREUS: The conjurer gasps, clutching his chest. "I... I can feel it. The 
binding. It's... gone!"
He staggers forward, reaching toward where the crystal gates would be, miles 
above. "I'm free. After twenty-seven years, I'm FREE!"
Tears stream down his face.
YOUR PATRON: The fiend's rage is APOCALYPTIC. Pain lances through 
your chest as it screams:
"TRAITOR! FOOL! YOU HAD IT! YOU COULD HAVE OPENED THE 
WAY! I WILL MAKE YOU SUFFER FOR THIS! I WILL-"
But then it stops. Because despite its fury, you haven't actually broken the 
contract. You're standing here with two powerful Elder Elf artifacts - the 
Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key - ready to present as tribute.
The patron is furious, but bound by cosmic law. It cannot punish you for 
fulfilling the contract's exact terms.
The pain fades to a dull, burning resentment. You can feel the fiend's hatred, 
but also its grudging acceptance.
 
THE AFTERMATH
Kessa lets out a breath she'd been holding. "You did it. The gate's dead."
Madreus is laughing and crying simultaneously. "It's over. It's actually over."
You pocket the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key - two incredibly powerful 
artifacts that will satisfy your contract. Your patron got its tribute. Just not the 
way it wanted.
What now?
1.	Short rest to recover (you just used resources)
2.	Immediately escort Madreus out (while you're still strong)
3.	Search the gate chamber one more time (anything you missed?)
4.	Something else?
The hardest part is done. Now you just need to get out alive.
Search, long rest for Madreus to recover, then let's talk
Nov 30
SECURING THE VICTORY
"Let's search this chamber thoroughly," you say. "Make sure we're not missing 
anything. Then we rest - Madreus needs to recover before we attempt the 
journey out."
 
SEARCHING THE VAST GATE CHAMBER
Final search of the Vast Gate chamber
 
THOROUGH DISCOVERIES
Your military-trained eye catches what the others missed.
1. PRISM FRAGMENTS While the prism is destroyed as a gate component, 
the fragments still hold residual magic. You carefully collect several large 
pieces.
*	3 Crystal Shards (each could be used as a spell focus or component 
for high-level magic)
*	Worth ~150gp each to the right buyer
2. HIDDEN ALCOVE Behind the southern pedestal, you find a concealed 
compartment carved by the Elder Elves. Inside:
*	Elder Elf Tablet - Technical documentation about gate safety 
protocols (historical value)
*	2 Potions of Greater Healing (4d4+4 each)
*	Small pouch of platinum pieces (50pp = 500gp)
3. THE RUNES The three concentric circles of runes on the floor are fading 
now that the prism is destroyed. But you copy down the patterns before they 
vanish completely. Madreus confirms: "Those are valuable. Ritual circles for 
planar magic. Worth studying."
4. GUARDIAN'S REMAINS Where the guardian dissolved, you find:
*	Aberrant Core - A small crystalline organ that powered the creature 
(worth ~200gp to alchemists)
*	Strange Coins - 15 coins made of unknown metal, Elder Elf design 
(100gp each = 1,500gp total)
Total haul:
*	3 Crystal Shards (~450gp)
*	Elder Elf Tablet (priceless to scholars)
*	2 Potions of Greater Healing
*	50 platinum (500gp)
*	Aberrant Core (200gp)
*	15 Elder Elf coins (1,500gp)
*	Plus the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key for your patron
"Not bad," Kessa says, dividing the loot. "Even without activating the gate, this 
expedition paid off."
 
LONG REST - 8 HOURS
You barricade the chamber entrance and settle in for a full rest. Madreus 
desperately needs it.
Long rest and recovery, especially for Madreus
 
RESTED AND RECOVERED
Eight hours later, you all wake feeling much better. Madreus in particular 
looks almost healthy - still wounded, but functional. He has his spells back 
and can actually contribute now.
"I can't believe I'm saying this," he says, studying his hands with wonder, "but 
I think I might actually make it out of here alive."
"Let's not celebrate until we're past the crystal gates," Kessa warns.
 
TIME TO TALK
The three of you sit around the dormant Vast Gate, the shattered remains of 
the prism glinting on the floor.
"So," Kessa says. "Let's talk this through. What's the plan for getting out?"
THE ROUTE OUT (as you remember):
1.	Vast Gate Chamber (current location)
2.	The Gibberling Chamber - Three giant gibberlings in stasis
3.	The Last Defense Checkpoint - Duergar guards (you bypassed with 
invisibility before)
4.	The Twisted Caverns - Various passages
5.	The Grand Promenade/Bazaar - Large Duergar population
6.	Upper Complex - Garrison barracks, checkpoints
7.	Crystal Gates - Exit to freedom
Madreus adds: "The Duergar will be hostile. Wellfast and I had an 
arrangement, but with the gate destroyed and me leaving... they'll see me as a 
traitor. Or try to capture me for leverage."
"Can you fight?" you ask.
"I'm a 9th level wizard," he says with some pride. "I can hold my own. 
Conjuration specialist - I can summon help, teleport short distances, control 
the battlefield. But I'd rather avoid combat if possible."
DISCUSSION POINTS:
A) Route Planning
*	Do you try stealth again? (Worked before)
*	Do you fight your way out? (You're strong enough)
*	Do you try to negotiate? (Unlikely to work)
*	Do you use magic creatively? (Invisibility, illusions, etc.)
B) Madreus's Future
*	Where will he go after escaping?
*	What will he do with his freedom?
*	Does he owe you anything?
C) The Components
*	You're carrying the Rod and Key for your patron
*	When/how will you present them as tribute?
*	What do you expect the fiend's reaction to be?
D) Wellfast
*	You robbed him earlier (he might know by now)
*	He's working with Madreus
*	Do you deal with him or avoid him?
What do you want to discuss first?
I want those magical weapons from Wellfast, unless they're too risky to try and 
steal.
Nov 30
AMBITIOUS THINKING
"Hold on," you say. "Before we leave, I want to go back to Wellfast's quarters."
Kessa raises an eyebrow. "We already robbed him once. Why go back?"
"The Crystal Cleaver. That battle axe +2 we saw. And whatever else he might 
have. We're escorting Madreus out anyway - might as well make it worth our 
while."
Madreus looks alarmed. "Wellfast is dangerous. Very dangerous. And by now 
he's probably discovered the theft of the sapphire rod. He'll be on high alert."
"Tell me about him," you say. "How dangerous are we talking?"
Madreus considers carefully. "Wellfast Brightblade - that's the name he uses 
now, though he once was a proper dwarf before... well, before what happened 
to him."
"What happened to him?" Kessa asks.
"He's been infected with a gibberslug," Madreus says grimly. "An aberrant 
parasite from the Far Realm. It's gestating inside him, slowly taking over his 
mind and body. Madreus - the other Madreus, the entity deeper in the 
mountain - controls it. Through the gibberslug, he controls Wellfast."
"So Wellfast is basically a puppet?" you ask.
"A very dangerous puppet. He's still a skilled fighter - former dwarf warrior 
turned Duergar commander. And he has that Crystal Cleaver you mentioned. 
But his judgment is compromised. He's paranoid, erratic, and absolutely loyal 
to Madreus - the other Madreus - because of the parasite."
Evaluating the risk/reward of robbing Wellfast again
 
MADREUS'S OFFER
"You have a secret route?" Kessa perks up immediately. "Why didn't you 
mention this before?"
"Because using it means going through parts of the Elder Elf complex I've 
been avoiding for years. There are... things... down there. But with the three of 
us together, and you two clearly capable fighters..." He shrugs. "It's doable."
"Explain," you say.
Madreus pulls out a piece of charcoal and sketches on the stone floor.
"The Elder Elves built redundant passages everywhere. Wellfast's quarters 
connect to an old maintenance tunnel system. I can get us in through the back 
- a passage he doesn't know exists. You grab what you want, we leave the same 
way."
"What about Wellfast himself?" you ask.
"Timing. He patrols the Grand Promenade regularly. When he's out inspecting 
his troops, his quarters are usually empty except maybe a servant or two. 
Those you can handle quietly."
Kessa grins. "I like this plan. We already robbed him once. Might as well finish 
the job."
"But," Madreus warns, "if we get caught, we're trapped deep in the Duergar 
complex with an angry commander and his garrison between us and the exit. 
It's a gamble."
The Stealth Heist Plan:
1.	Madreus guides you through secret Elder Elf passages
2.	Enter Wellfast's quarters from the back
3.	Grab the Crystal Cleaver and anything else valuable
4.	Exit the same way before he returns
5.	Proceed to escape as planned
Risk vs Reward:
*	Risk: Getting caught deep in Duergar territory
*	Reward: Crystal Cleaver +2, possible other treasure, complete robbery
Do you:
*	A) Go for it - Attempt the heist with Madreus's secret route
*	B) Skip it - Too risky, head straight for the exit
*	C) Ask more questions first - What else is in those tunnels Madreus 
mentioned?
What's your call?
What about this other Madreus? Does he have goodies?
Nov 30
THE OTHER MADREUS
You pause. "Wait. You keep mentioning 'the other Madreus' - the entity 
controlling the gibberslugs. Who or what is that exactly? And does he have 
treasure worth taking?"
Madreus's face goes pale. "You... you want to go after him?"
"Just asking. Knowledge is power."
The conjurer sits down heavily, clearly troubled by the question.
"The other Madreus - we call him that because he took my colleague's name - 
is what happened to Madreus Tren, one of the four who originally came here. 
He was... transformed."
"Transformed how?" Kessa asks.
"When Quaren partially activated the Vast Gate, Far Realm energy leaked 
through. It infected her first - she became something else entirely, lost deep in 
the mountain. But Madreus Tren... he embraced it. Deliberately exposed 
himself. Let the aberrant energies remake him."
The conjurer shudders.
"He's no longer human. He's become a hybrid - part man, part aberration. 
Controls gibberslugs telepathically. Can spawn them from his own body. His 
lair is deeper in the mountain, past the gibberling chamber, in what we called 
the 'Sunless Garden' - an Elder Elf biodome that's been completely corrupted."
"And his treasure?" you press.
Madreus considers. "He's been here as long as I have - twenty-seven years. 
Collecting, studying, experimenting. He has:"
Assessing the "other Madreus" as a potential target
 
WEIGHING OPTIONS
Kessa whistles low. "An aberration wizard who's had twenty-seven years to 
fortify his lair? That's asking to die."
Madreus nods emphatically. "I'm good at staying alive through caution. Going 
after Madreus Tren is the opposite of caution."
"But the potential rewards..." you muse.
"Aren't worth it if you're dead," Kessa counters. "Look, I'm all for a good heist, 
but there's ambitious and there's stupid. We've already won the big prize - you 
destroyed the gate, saved the world from Far Realm entities, got two powerful 
artifacts for your patron. Don't get greedy and throw it all away."
Madreus adds: "If you really want magical items, Wellfast's quarters are a 
much safer bet. The Crystal Cleaver alone is worth the risk. Going after Tren 
is... well, it's something you'd need a full adventuring party for. And 
preparation. And luck."
YOUR OPTIONS:
A) Rob Wellfast (MEDIUM-HIGH RISK)
*	Use Madreus's secret route
*	Grab Crystal Cleaver +2 and other items
*	Reasonable chance of success
*	Clear escape route
B) Skip both, head for exit (LOW RISK)
*	You've already gotten great loot
*	Focus on escaping alive
*	Safest option
C) Go after the Other Madreus (EXTREME RISK)
*	Potentially amazing rewards
*	Likely to get you killed
*	Even Madreus thinks it's suicide
D) Something else?
Kessa is watching you. "What's it going to be, Johannes? I'll follow your lead, 
but I'm voting for either Wellfast or straight to the exit. The other Madreus is 
out of our league right now."
What do you decide?
How much is cleaver likely worth?
Nov 30
APPRAISING THE PRIZE
"How much is the Crystal Cleaver actually worth?" you ask. "Is it worth the 
risk?"
Madreus considers. "A battle axe +2? In terms of raw gold value, probably 
4,000 to 6,000 gold pieces to the right buyer. Magical weapons are rare and 
valuable."
Kessa adds her street knowledge: "But the real value depends on who's buying. 
To a warrior or collector? Could be 8,000 gold or more. To someone who just 
wants a magical weapon? Maybe 3,000. Hard to say until you try to sell it."
"Plus," Madreus continues, "Wellfast likely has other items. When I last visited 
his quarters - years ago, admittedly - he had:"
Evaluating the monetary value of robbing Wellfast
 
THE DECISION POINT
You weigh it in your mind. Roughly 5,000 to 15,000 gold pieces worth of loot, 
with the Crystal Cleaver being the crown jewel. That's a life-changing amount 
of money for most people.
But you'd be risking:
*	Getting caught deep in enemy territory
*	Fighting Wellfast (a formidable opponent)
*	Alerting the garrison (potentially dozens of Duergar)
*	Compromising your escape with Madreus
On the other hand:
*	Madreus knows a secret route
*	Kessa is excellent at stealth
*	You have invisibility if needed
*	The potential reward is substantial
Kessa leans back. "I'm in if you are. But I won't lie - I'm getting that itch. The 
'let's just get out alive' itch. We've already pulled off the impossible. The gate's 
destroyed, we have valuable loot, and we're all still breathing."
She grins. "But I'm also a professional thief. And the idea of completely 
cleaning out that Duergar bastard? That's tempting."
Madreus says nothing, leaving the choice to you.
Final decision:
A) Hit Wellfast's quarters - Go for the Crystal Cleaver and additional loot 
via secret route B) Head straight for the exit - You've already won, don't 
push your luck
What's your call?
What the hell let's try it
Nov 30
ALL IN
"What the hell," you say with a grin. "We've come this far. Let's finish the job 
properly. Madreus, show us this secret route."
Kessa's eyes light up. "Now we're talking! One last heist before we leave this 
place forever."
Madreus nods, though he looks nervous. "Alright. But we do this carefully. 
Quietly. If we alert the garrison, we run - no heroics."
"Agreed," you say.
 
THE SECRET ROUTE
Madreus leads you out of the Vast Gate chamber and through a series of 
passages you haven't explored. He navigates with the confidence of someone 
who's spent twenty-seven years mapping every inch of this mountain.
Navigating secret tunnels to Wellfast's quarters
 
SMOOTH PASSAGE
The secret route is clear. Madreus navigates confidently through passages that 
show no signs of recent use - decades or even centuries of dust coat 
everything.
"I'm probably the only person who's used these tunnels in a thousand years," 
he whispers. "The Elder Elves built redundancy into everything. The Duergar 
never found these passages."
You pass through remarkable chambers:
*	A laboratory with crystalline equipment still intact
*	A library with stone tablets in perfect preservation
*	Storage rooms filled with unidentifiable Elder Elf artifacts
"We could spend months cataloging all this," Kessa mutters, eyeing the 
treasures. "But that's for another expedition."
Finally, Madreus stops at a blank stone wall.
"Here," he says quietly. "Wellfast's quarters are on the other side. This is a 
one-way passage - Elder Elf magic. We can go through, but we can't come back 
this way. We'll need to exit through his front door."
"Is that a problem?" you ask.
"Depends on whether he's home. If he's on patrol like I expect, we go in, grab 
what we want, and leave through the normal corridors before he returns."
"And if he's home?" Kessa asks.
"Then we improvise."
 
RECONNAISSANCE
Checking if Wellfast is home
 
COMPLICATION
Madreus presses his ear to the wall and goes pale.
"He's home," he whispers. "I can hear him. He's... talking to someone. Or 
maybe to himself. The gibberslug makes him erratic."
Kessa frowns. "Do we wait for him to leave? Or..."
You have options:
A) WAIT IT OUT
*	Hide in the tunnels and wait for Wellfast to leave on patrol
*	Could take hours, or he might not leave at all
*	Safest option but time-consuming
B) SNEAK IN ANYWAY
*	Use invisibility and stealth to enter while he's distracted
*	Grab the Crystal Cleaver and get out
*	Risky but possible with good rolls
C) AMBUSH HIM
*	Attack while he's unaware in his own quarters
*	Take him down, then loot at leisure
*	Combat risk but eliminates the threat
D) ABORT
*	This is too risky, head straight for the exit
*	Keep what you have, don't push your luck
E) CREATIVE SOLUTION?
*	Use magic to distract/lure him away?
*	Something else?
Kessa whispers: "Your call, boss. I can go invisible and try to sneak in, or we 
can jump him, or we can walk away."
What do you want to do?
Hear me out. Classic prisoner ruse. Madreus pretends to have caught me in 
the act and is bringing me in for investigation. Everyone else out, including 
guards. Kressa sneaks in invisible and when it's just us, we take on Wellfast.
Nov 30
THE PRISONER RUSE
You lay out the plan in whispers. "Madreus, you 'captured' me trying to steal 
from the complex. You're bringing me to Wellfast for interrogation. Demand 
privacy - clear out any guards or servants. Kessa goes invisible and sneaks in 
with us. Once it's just us and Wellfast, we take him down together."
Kessa grins. "I love it. Classic misdirection."
Madreus considers, then nods slowly. "It could work. Wellfast knows me - 
we've worked together for years. He'd believe I caught an intruder. And he's 
paranoid enough that he'd want privacy for an interrogation."
"Can you sell it?" you ask.
"I'm a wizard who's survived twenty-seven years in this hellhole by being 
clever. Yes, I can sell it."
 
SETTING UP THE RUSE
Setting up the prisoner ruse
 
EXECUTING THE RUSE
Kessa vanishes from sight with a whispered spell. You feel her tap your 
shoulder - she's ready.
Madreus ties your hands loosely behind your back, gives you a significant look, 
then leads you through the secret passage. You emerge in a side corridor near 
Wellfast's quarters.
Taking a deep breath, Madreus straightens his robes and adopts an air of 
authority you haven't seen before. This is the conjurer he was before twenty-
seven years of imprisonment broke him - confident, commanding.
He marches you to Wellfast's door and pounds on it.
"Wellfast! Open up! I've caught an intruder!"
Wellfast's reaction to the ruse
 
WELLFAST TAKES THE BAIT
The door swings open. Wellfast stands there - a muscular Duergar in fine 
armor, his Crystal Cleaver battle axe leaning against the wall within reach. His 
eyes are... wrong. Slightly too wide, pupils dilated. The gibberslug infection.
"Madreus?" he says, surprised. "You caught someone?"
"This human," Madreus says with perfect disdain, shoving you forward. "I 
found him sneaking through the lower passages. Near the Vast Gate chamber."
Wellfast's expression darkens. "The gate? After someone stole the sapphire 
rod?" He glares at you. "Was that you, worm?"
You stay silent, playing the captured thief.
A Duergar servant hovers in the background, organizing papers.
"Leave us," Wellfast snaps at the servant. "I'll interrogate this one myself."
"Commander, are you certain-" the servant begins.
"OUT!" Wellfast roars.
The servant scrambles out, closing the door behind him.
Now it's just you, Madreus, Wellfast... and the invisible Kessa positioning 
herself behind the Duergar commander.
Perfect.
Wellfast turns back to you, reaching for his axe. "Now then, let's discuss what 
you were doing near-"
 
STRIKE NOW?
This is the moment. Wellfast suspects nothing. He's alone with you. Kessa is 
invisible behind him. Madreus is ready.
Initiative time. What's your opening move?
A) AMBUSH - ALL OUT
*	You break your bonds and attack immediately
*	Madreus casts an offensive spell
*	Kessa backstabs with sneak attack
*	Maximum surprise damage
B) TALK BRIEFLY FIRST
*	Stall for a moment to position better
*	Get him to turn his back to Kessa
*	Then strike
C) LET MADREUS LEAD
*	He knows Wellfast better
*	Might have a better opening
What do you do?
All out now. Hex ,EB no hold barred
Nov 30
AMBUSH - NO MERCY
The moment Wellfast turns away from Madreus to focus on you, you make 
your move.
Your "bonds" snap apart - they were never really tied. Dark energy coils 
around Wellfast as you cast Hex, then both hands come up blazing with 
eldritch power.
"NOW!" you shout.
Rolling initiative for the Wellfast ambush
 
SURPRISE ROUND - MADREUS GOES FIRST
Madreus doesn't hesitate. His hands blur through arcane gestures as he shouts 
a word of power.
Madreus's surprise round spell
Madreus's spell washes over Wellfast, but the Duergar commander shakes it 
off with a grunt, his infected willpower somehow resisting the magic.
"Traitor!" Wellfast snarls at Madreus.
 
KESSA'S TURN - SURPRISE
Kessa strikes from invisibility, her hand crossbow aimed at Wellfast's 
unprotected neck.
Kessa's sneak attack from invisibility
Kessa's bolt pings off Wellfast's armored shoulder plate. The Dwarven plate is 
incredibly thick - even a perfect shot can't penetrate it easily.
She becomes visible, already reloading. "Tough bastard!"
 
JOHANNES'S TURN - SURPRISE
Your turn. You cast Hex on Wellfast, dark energy wrapping around him, then 
unleash both Eldritch Blast beams.
Johannes's Hex and Eldritch Blast attack
 
FIRST BLOOD
Your first Eldritch Blast slams into Wellfast's chest. The force and necrotic 
energy bypass his armor, making him stagger.
16 damage!
Your second beam goes wide as he lurches to the side.
 
END OF SURPRISE ROUND
Damage to Wellfast: 16 Wellfast cannot act (surprised)
 
ROUND 1 BEGINS - NORMAL INITIATIVE
Initiative Order:
1.	Madreus (20)
2.	Kessa (10)
3.	Johannes (7)
4.	Wellfast (5)
Wellfast can finally act now. He's wounded, surrounded, and realizes he's been 
betrayed.
"You'll pay for this!" he roars, reaching for his Crystal Cleaver.
MADREUS'S TURN - ROUND 1
What should Madreus do?
*	Another offensive spell
*	Defensive/control spell
*	Summon something
*	(I'll resolve his action, then it's Kessa's turn, then yours)
The fight is on!
Control spell?
Nov 30
MADREUS - BATTLEFIELD CONTROL
Madreus sees Wellfast reaching for the Crystal Cleaver and acts fast. His 
hands weave another spell, more carefully this time.
Madreus casts Web to restrain Wellfast
Sticky magical webbing erupts around Wellfast, but the veteran warrior tears 
through it with brute strength, his armor protecting him from the worst of it.
"Nice try, wizard!" he snarls.
 
KESSA'S TURN - ROUND 1
Kessa fires another crossbow bolt, aiming for gaps in the armor.
Kessa's attack in Round 1
Another bolt pings off the heavy armor. "This armor is ridiculous!" Kessa 
mutters.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN - ROUND 1
Your turn. Wellfast is wounded (16 HP down) but still dangerous. Your Hex is 
active on him.
Current status:
*	Wellfast: Wounded, not restrained, high AC (18)
*	Johannes: 39/39 HP, Hex active
*	Kessa: 38/38 HP
*	Madreus: 37/45 HP
What do you do?
*	Eldritch Blast again (2 beams, Hex damage on hits)
*	Cast a different spell (what?)
*	Something creative?
Your move!
EB
Nov 30
ELDRITCH BLAST - KEEP THE PRESSURE ON
You unleash both beams again, the Hex curse making each hit more 
devastating.
Johannes's Eldritch Blast in Round 1
 
ANOTHER SOLID HIT
Your first beam slams into Wellfast again, the combined force and necrotic 
energy making him grunt in pain.
14 damage! Total: 30 damage dealt!
Your second beam goes wide as he shifts position.
Wellfast is bloodied now - halfway down. But he's still very much in the fight.
 
WELLFAST'S TURN - ROUND 1
The Duergar commander finally gets to act. His eyes are wild with rage and 
the gibberslug infection makes him even more erratic.
"You dare betray ME?!" he roars at Madreus. Then he grabs the Crystal 
Cleaver from where it leans against the wall.
Wellfast's counterattack
 
WELLFAST STRIKES BACK
Wellfast whirls on Kessa, the Crystal Cleaver blazing with magical light. He's a 
skilled warrior, and even wounded he's deadly.
SLASH!
The first strike catches Kessa across the shoulder, cutting deep.
10 damage!
CRACK!
The second blow hammers into her side.
8 damage!
Kessa: 38/38 ? 20/38 HP!
She staggers back, blood pouring from the wounds. "Fuck! That thing 
HURTS!"
 
END OF ROUND 1
Status update between rounds
 
ROUND 2 - MADREUS'S TURN
Madreus sees Kessa badly wounded and makes a decision. He points at 
Wellfast and shouts an incantation.
Madreus's attack in Round 2
One ray of fire strikes true, scorching Wellfast's armor and making him roar in 
pain.
11 damage! Wellfast at 39/80 HP!
 
KESSA'S TURN - ROUND 2
Kessa is badly wounded but still fighting. She fires another bolt while backing 
away from Wellfast's reach.
Kessa's attack and tactical retreat
Another miss! The armor is just too strong. But Kessa smartly retreats out of 
melee range.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN - ROUND 2
Wellfast is at 39/80 HP. Almost halfway dead. Your turn.
What do you do?
*	Eldritch Blast (keep hammering him)
*	Different spell (what?)
*	Something else?
Your call!
Watch the language please. Eb
Nov 30
ELDRITCH BLAST - FINISH HIM
You keep the pressure on, firing both beams at the bloodied Duergar 
commander.
Johannes's Eldritch Blast in Round 2
 
DEVASTATING BARRAGE
Your first beam catches Wellfast square in the chest - a CRITICAL hit! The 
eldritch force tears through him, the Hex curse magnifying the damage 
catastrophically.
21 damage!
Your second beam follows immediately, slamming into his gut.
14 damage!
Total: 35 damage!
Wellfast staggers, blood pouring from multiple wounds. He's barely standing - 
only 4 HP left. One more solid hit will drop him.
But he's still on his feet, still gripping the Crystal Cleaver, eyes wild with pain 
and rage.
 
WELLFAST'S TURN - ROUND 2
The Duergar commander knows he's dying. In desperation, he charges at the 
nearest target.
Wellfast's desperate final attacks
 
WELLFAST'S LAST STAND
The dying Duergar summons every ounce of strength and launches a furious 
assault. The Crystal Cleaver blazes with magical light as he swings it twice in 
rapid succession.
SLASH!
The first blow carves across your chest.
11 damage!
CRACK!
The second hammers into your shoulder.
10 damage!
Johannes: 39/39 ? 18/39 HP!
You're bloodied! The magical axe cuts deep, and for a moment you stagger 
under the onslaught.
But Wellfast is spent. He's given everything he has left. He stands there, 
swaying, barely conscious.
 
END OF ROUND 2
Combat Status:
*	Wellfast: 4/80 HP (on death's door)
*	Johannes: 18/39 HP (bloodied)
*	Kessa: 20/38 HP (wounded, 30 feet away)
*	Madreus: 37/45 HP
 
ROUND 3 - MADREUS'S TURN
Madreus sees Wellfast teetering and fires one more Firebolt cantrip to finish 
him.
Madreus's finishing attack
The fire bolt goes wide!
Wellfast is still standing - barely.
KESSA'S TURN - ROUND 3
Kessa takes careful aim from range.
Kessa's finishing attack
Another miss off the armor!
JOHANNES'S TURN - ROUND 3
Wellfast is at 4 HP, swaying on his feet. One hit will finish this.
Your move - end it?
Yep.
Nov 30
FINISH HIM
You raise both hands one final time. Wellfast looks at you with defiant, pain-
filled eyes.
"For... the master..." he croaks.
You unleash Eldritch Blast.
Johannes's final Eldritch Blast on Wellfast
 
CRITICAL HIT - WELLFAST DIES
Your eldritch beam strikes Wellfast directly in the chest. The force and 
necrotic energy punch through his armor and heart simultaneously.
He drops the Crystal Cleaver. It clatters to the stone floor, still glowing with 
magical light.
Wellfast stumbles backward, looks down at the smoking wound, then up at 
Madreus.
"You... were supposed... to help us..." he whispers.
Then he collapses, dead before he hits the ground.
 
COMBAT OVER - VICTORY!
Combat summary and looting opportunity
 
THE AFTERMATH
Silence falls. Wellfast's body lies motionless on the floor.
Kessa slumps against the wall, breathing hard. "That was close. That axe hits 
HARD."
Madreus looks at Wellfast's corpse with something like sadness. "He was a 
good warrior once. Before the gibberslug. Before all of this."
You pick up the Crystal Cleaver. It's beautiful - a perfectly balanced battle 
axe with a blade that seems to be carved from a single crystal, glowing with 
inner light. The magical energy thrums in your hands.
Battle Axe +2 acquired!
"We should heal and search quickly," Kessa says. "Someone might have heard 
the fight."
Madreus nods and casts a healing spell on Kessa, then you.
Healing and looting Wellfast's quarters
 
EXCELLENT HAUL
The search yields treasure beyond expectations:
*	Crystal Cleaver +2 (the prize)
*	852 gold pieces in coins and valuables
*	3 Potions of Greater Healing
*	Maps showing safe routes through the complex
*	Keys to bypass locked doors
*	Dwarven Plate armor (heavy but valuable)
Kessa eyes the armor. "That plate is worth serious money, but it weighs as 
much as a small person. We'd need to carry it out."
Madreus looks concerned. "The longer we stay, the more risk. We should 
move soon."
Do you:
*	Take everything including the armor (slower movement, 
encumbered)
*	Leave the armor, take everything else (faster escape)
*	Something creative? (Use a spell to transport it? Hide it to retrieve 
later?)
And then: Ready to make your escape from Firestorm Peak?
How much is the armor worth?
Nov 30
APPRAISING THE ARMOR
Madreus examines the Dwarven Plate carefully. "This is masterwork 
craftsmanship. Genuine Dwarven make, before Wellfast became... what he 
was."
Evaluating whether to take the Dwarven Plate armor
 
THE ARMOR DILEMMA
So the Dwarven Plate is worth 1,500-3,000 gold, but:
*	Weighs 65 lbs
*	None of you can wear it effectively (need STR 15)
*	Would significantly slow your escape
*	You're already carrying a huge haul
Current total loot:
*	Crystal Cleaver +2 (~5,000 gp value)
*	852 gp in portable wealth
*	3 Greater Healing Potions
*	Valuable maps and keys
*	PLUS the 2,650 gp worth of loot from earlier
*	PLUS the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key for your patron
Grand total without armor: ~8,500 gp + two Elder Elf artifacts
That's already an incredibly successful expedition.
Kessa makes her case: "We came for the Cleaver. We got the Cleaver. 
Everything else is bonus. Let's not get greedy and die trying to haul 65 pounds 
of metal through hostile territory."
Madreus nods. "Speed is survival. The longer we're here, the more likely we 
get caught."
What do you decide?
*	Leave the armor - Travel light and fast
*	Take the armor - Risk slower escape for extra 1,500+ gp
*	Something else?
Your call!
Would it take more than an hour to leave if I were to cast Invisible and carry it 
myself and Madreus were to walk out as if he didn't have s car in the world. 
Wellfast doesn't want to be disturbed. Period. Kressa, none of anyone's 
business.
Nov 30
CLEVER PLAN
You think it through. "Actually... I have an idea. Madreus, you walk out of here 
like you own the place. You're Wellfast's colleague - no one will question you. 
Tell anyone who asks that Wellfast is not to be disturbed. Period."
"Kessa, you slip out however you do best. And I..." you pick up the heavy 
armor, "I'll cast Invisibility on myself and carry this out. If we move at a 
normal pace, we should be out in what, 30-40 minutes?"
Madreus considers. "That... could work. The Duergar know me. They won't 
question my presence. And if I tell them Wellfast is conducting sensitive 
business and doesn't want interruptions, they'll believe it."
Kessa grins. "I like it. Confidence is the best disguise."
Evaluating the confident exit strategy
 
FINAL PREPARATIONS
"Alright," Madreus says, straightening his robes and adopting that 
authoritative bearing again. "Give me two minutes to get ahead, then follow. 
I'll clear the way."
Kessa checks her gear. "I'll take a parallel route. Meet you at the crystal gates."
You heft the heavy Dwarven Plate - 65 pounds of metal. It's awkward but 
manageable. You cast Invisibility on yourself and vanish from sight.
"Can't see you at all," Kessa confirms. "Perfect."
Madreus takes a deep breath. "Twenty-seven years I've waited for this. Let's 
not mess it up now." He opens the door and strides out confidently.
 
THE ESCAPE - EXECUTING THE PLAN
Ready to make your escape from Firestorm Peak with all the loot?
Let's do this!
Do it
Nov 30
THE GREAT ESCAPE
Madreus exits first, walking with purpose and authority. You give him a two-
minute head start, then carefully lift the Dwarven Plate armor, cast Invisibility 
on yourself, and follow.
Kessa slips out through a side passage, already fading into the shadows.
Ranpython3 << 'EOF' import random print("ESCAPE FROM 
FIRESTORM PEAK") print("=" * 50) print("\n>>> MADREUS - 
THE CONFIDENT EXIT") print("Walking through Duergar 
territory openly...") # Madreus Deception/Performance 
check madreus_performance = random.randint(1, 20) + 4 
print(f"\nMadreus Performance: {madreus_performance}") if 
madreus_performance >= 15: print("\n>>> EXCELLENT 
PERFORMANCE!") print("Madreus commands respect and 
authority") madreus_success = "excellent" elif 
madreus_performance >= 10: print("\n>>> GOOD 
PERFORMANCE") print("Madreus is believable") 
madreus_success = "good" else: print("\n>>> SHAKY 
PERFORMANCE") print("Some Duergar look suspicious") 
madreus_success = "poor" print(f"Result: 
{madreus_success}") print("\n" + "=" * 50) print(">>> 
KESSA - THE SNEAKY EXIT") print("Using stealth and 
shadows...") # Kessa Stealth check kessa_stealth = 
random.randint(1, 20) + 7 # Expertise print(f"\nKessa 
Stealth: {kessa_stealth}") if kessa_stealth >= 20: 
print("\n>>> PERFECT STEALTH!") print("Kessa is a ghost") 
kessa_success = "perfect" elif kessa_stealth >= 15: 
print("\n>>> EXCELLENT STEALTH") print("Kessa avoids all 
patrols") kessa_success = "excellent" else:
Kressa doesn't need to hide, she's with Madreus. An assistant or something.
Nov 30
ADJUSTED PLAN
Right! Kessa doesn't need to sneak - she's walking with Madreus as his 
assistant or associate. Much simpler.
Revised escape plan with Kessa as Madreus's companion
 
THE JOURNEY OUT
ENCOUNTER 1: THE GRAND PROMENADE
First encounter during escape
 
COMPLICATION
The guard isn't backing down. "I'm just doing my job. Let me send a runner to 
Wellfast's quarters to confirm-"
Kessa steps in smoothly. "Actually, that's perfect timing. We were just heading 
back there anyway. Come with us and ask him yourself."
The guard hesitates. Going to disturb Wellfast personally when he's 
supposedly conducting "sensitive business" could get him in trouble...
Guard's decision about verifying with Wellfast
 
UNEXPECTED PROBLEM
The stubborn guard is actually following Madreus and Kessa back toward 
Wellfast's quarters. In about five minutes, he'll discover the body and raise the 
alarm.
You're invisible, carrying the armor, following about 20 feet behind. The guard 
doesn't know you're there.
Quick decision needed! What do you do?
Option 1: Let Madreus/Kessa handle it
*	They lead him on a meandering route, stalling
*	Eventually lose him or find an excuse
*	Risk: Time pressure, might fail
Option 2: You intervene (invisible)
*	Knock the guard out from behind while invisible
*	Quick and direct
*	Risk: Breaking concentration, making noise, being discovered
Option 3: Create a distraction
*	You (or Madreus) cause something to happen elsewhere
*	Guard gets called away
*	Risk: Depends on execution
Option 4: Something creative?
You have maybe 30 seconds to decide before they're too far ahead. What's 
your move?
Let them handle it.
Nov 30
TRUSTING YOUR ALLIES
You decide to let Madreus and Kessa handle this. They're both clever - they'll 
figure something out. You continue following invisibly, ready to intervene if 
needed.
Madreus and Kessa's attempt to lose the guard
 
THE GUARD ISN'T FOOLED
Kessa's fake injury doesn't sell. The guard crosses his arms. "She looks fine to 
me. Let's keep moving."
They're running out of time. The guard is still following them, and they're 
getting closer to Wellfast's quarters where the body is.
You're still invisible, 20 feet behind, carrying the armor. You need to make a 
decision now.
Critical decision point for Johannes
Kessa catches your eye - she can't see you, but she knows you're there 
somewhere. She mouths: Your call.
What do you do?
1.	Knock out the guard (invisible surprise attack)
2.	Trust one more attempt (Madreus/Kessa try again)
3.	Create a distraction (spell or noise elsewhere)
4.	Something else?
Decision time!
If we're near Wellfasts quarters, minor illusion of Wellfast shouting to be left 
alone.
Nov 30
BRILLIANT SOLUTION
Perfect! You're close enough to Wellfast's quarters that you can make this 
work.
You carefully set down the armor for a moment, focus your concentration, and 
cast Minor Illusion - creating the sound of Wellfast's gruff voice bellowing 
from inside his quarters.
Minor Illusion to fake Wellfast's voice
 
PERFECT EXECUTION
The illusion works flawlessly. Wellfast's angry roar echoes through the 
corridor, followed by the sound of something heavy being thrown against a 
wall.
The guard goes pale. "Commander's... really not in a good mood."
Madreus crosses his arms. "As I've been trying to tell you. Now do you 
understand why I said no interruptions?"
The guard is already backing away. "Yes. Absolutely. My apologies. I'll... I'll 
just get back to my post."
He practically runs away.
Kessa lets out a breath once he's gone. She can't see you, but she whispers: 
"Johannes? That was you, wasn't it? Brilliant."
You pick up the armor again and continue following them, still invisible.
 
ENCOUNTER 2: APPROACHING THE UPPER LEVELS
Second encounter at upper checkpoint
 
FINAL OBSTACLE
Three Duergar guards are at the checkpoint, being unusually thorough. 
They're checking papers, asking questions, even searching some people's bags.
Not good.
Madreus and Kessa approach confidently, but you can see the tension in their 
shoulders.
Navigating the thorough checkpoint
 
CRITICAL MOMENT
Madreus fumbled it - he's too nervous after twenty-seven years of isolation. 
The guards are suspicious now.
"Both of you, step aside for a full search," the Captain orders.
Kessa shoots a glance in your direction - she can't see you, but she's 
signaling: Do something or slip past now.
The guards are distracted with Madreus and Kessa. You could potentially slip 
past while they're focused on the search. Or you could intervene somehow.
What do you do?
1.	Slip past while they're distracted (Stealth check, they're focused 
elsewhere)
2.	Create another distraction (Minor Illusion elsewhere to pull guards 
away)
3.	Have Kessa cause a scene (Give you cover to slip through)
4.	Something else?
Quick decision - what's your play?
Slip past
Nov 30
SLIP THROUGH UNNOTICED
While the guards focus on Madreus and Kessa, you carefully navigate around 
them, hugging the wall with the heavy armor in your arms.
Johannes slipping past the checkpoint invisibly
 
PAST THE CHECKPOINT!
You slip past like a ghost. The guards never notice you. You're through!
Behind you, the guards finish searching Madreus and Kessa's packs. They find 
some coins and supplies, but nothing that screams "we just robbed and killed 
your commander."
The Captain waves them through impatiently. "Move along. You're holding up 
the line."
Madreus and Kessa walk through the checkpoint, trying not to look too 
relieved.
 
THE CRYSTAL GATES - FREEDOM AHEAD
Escaping through the crystal gates
 
FREEDOM
You walk down the mountain path, putting distance between yourselves and 
Firestorm Peak. Once you're a safe distance away - maybe half a mile - you let 
your Invisibility drop.
You appear, standing there with the Dwarven Plate armor in your arms, 
grinning.
Kessa laughs. "We actually did it. We destroyed the gate, saved Madreus, 
robbed Wellfast blind, and walked out the front door."
Madreus is sitting on a rock, staring at the sky with wonder. "Twenty-seven 
years. Twenty-seven years trapped in darkness. And now... sun. Wind. 
Freedom."
He looks at both of you. "I owe you my life. Both of you."
Final mission summary and loot tally
 
EPILOGUE - DIVIDING THE SPOILS
You make camp a few miles from the mountain, in a safe clearing. Madreus 
can't stop smiling, even as he helps organize the loot.
"So," Kessa says, spreading everything out. "How do we split this?"
You consider. You have:
*	The two artifacts for your patron (non-negotiable - they're your contract 
obligation)
*	About 11,000-14,000 gp worth of other loot
*	A freed wizard who's been imprisoned for 27 years
"The artifacts are mine," you say. "For my patron. Everything else... we 
discuss."
Madreus speaks up. "I have no claim to anything. You saved my life. Whatever 
you give me is generosity."
Kessa shakes her head. "You helped us escape. You're a skilled wizard. You 
deserve a share."
How do you want to split the remaining loot?
*	Equal three-way split?
*	Keep most of it (you and Kessa did the heavy lifting)?
*	Give Madreus a generous portion (he has nothing after 27 years)?
*	Something else?
And then: What do you do next?
This has been an incredible session! What do you think?
60/40 split and head home and he takes the armor
Nov 30
FAIR DIVISION
"Here's what I'm thinking," you say. "Kessa and I split 60% of the loot between 
us - 30% each. Madreus, you get 40% plus the Dwarven Plate armor. You've 
got nothing after twenty-seven years. You need a fresh start."
Madreus looks stunned. "That's... that's incredibly generous."
Kessa nods. "Works for me. We got what we came for and then some."
Dividing the loot fairly
 
THE PARTING
The loot is divided fairly. Madreus straps on the Dwarven Plate armor - it's 
heavy, but he's a free man now and it's worth a fortune.
"Where will you go?" you ask him.
"Home," he says simply. "Or what's left of it. My wife... my daughter... they 
probably think I'm dead. But I have to try."
He clasps your hand firmly. "Johannes. Kessa. I will never forget what you did 
for me. If you ever need a powerful wizard's aid, you need only ask. I am 
forever in your debt."
Kessa hu
Not plus
Nov 30
CORRECTED SPLIT
Right - the artifacts aren't in addition to your 30%, they are part of your 
payment.
Corrected loot split where artifacts count as Johannes's share
 
FINAL DIVISION
You work it out fairly:
JOHANNES: The two Elder Elf artifacts (going to your patron as tribute) + 1 
healing potion
KESSA: 2,500 gold + Crystal Cleaver + Crystal Shards + 2 healing potions
MADREUS: 3,000 gold + Dwarven Plate Armor + Elder Elf Tablet + 2 
healing potions
Everyone nods. It's fair. Madreus gets the most actual portable wealth since 
he's starting from nothing. Kessa gets a legendary magical weapon and serious 
cash. You get the artifacts your patron demanded.
 
PARTING WAYS
Madreus adjusts the Dwarven Plate armor on his shoulders. "Where will you 
go?" you ask.
"Home," he says quietly. "To find what's left of my family. My wife, my 
daughter... they probably think I'm dead. But I have to try. And if they're 
gone..." He touches the coin purse. "I can rebuild. Thanks to you."
He clasps your hand. "Johannes. Kessa. I owe you my life. If you ever need a 
powerful wizard's aid, send word. I am forever in your debt."
Kessa grins. "Try not to get trapped in any more mountains."
"Never again," he laughs. Then he heads south, toward civilization and home.
 
HEADING HOME
You and Kessa travel together back toward town. You have the artifacts for 
your patron, and you need to present them soon.
"So," Kessa says as you walk. "That was one hell of an adventure. Destroyed an 
ancient gate, saved the world from Far Realm horrors, freed a wizard, robbed 
a Duergar commander, and walked out rich."
She looks at the Crystal Cleaver strapped to her back. "Not bad for a few days' 
work."
"Not bad at all," you agree.
But in the back of your mind, you feel your patron's presence. Waiting. 
Hungry for the tribute you've brought.
Soon you'll need to present the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key. The fiend will 
be furious you didn't open the gate... but bound by contract to accept the 
artifacts as payment.
That confrontation is coming.
But for now? You're alive, you're wealthy, and you just pulled off the heist of a 
lifetime.
 
END OF SESSION
What an incredible adventure! You:
*	Prevented a Far Realm invasion
*	Outsmarted your fiend patron
*	Saved an innocent man
*	Pulled off an epic heist
*	Walked away rich
Fantastic session! How did you enjoy it?
Not plus the armor, I meant.
Nov 30
FINAL CORRECTION
Ah! You mean Madreus gets 40% of everything, and the armor is part of that 
40%, not in addition to it.
Final split where armor is part of Madreus's 40%
 
SETTLED
Perfect. The split is fair:
*	You: The two artifacts for your patron, 550 gold, and a healing potion
*	Kessa: The legendary Crystal Cleaver, 1,600 gold, crystal shards, and 2 
potions
*	Madreus: The valuable Dwarven Plate (which counts as most of his 
share), 900 gold to restart his life, the Elder Elf Tablet, 2 potions, and 
the maps
Everyone agrees it's fair. Madreus gets the armor as the cornerstone of his 
40% share - it's worth 2,000 gold and gives him protection as he rebuilds his 
life.
 
PARTING WAYS
Madreus straps on the armor - it's heavy but valuable. "This will keep me safe 
on the road home. And if I need to sell it..." He trails off, but you understand. 
It's his safety net.
"Thank you both," he says earnestly. "For everything. My freedom, my life... I 
will never forget this."
He heads south toward his old home.
You and Kessa turn toward town, weighted down with gold and glory.
"One hell of an adventure," Kessa says, grinning.
Indeed it was.
 
END OF SESSION
Fantastic adventure! You achieved everything:
*	? Stopped a Far Realm invasion
*	? Outsmarted your patron (gave tribute without opening the gate)
*	? Saved Madreus from 27 years of imprisonment
*	? Pulled off an epic heist
*	? Everyone survived and got rich
How did you enjoy the session? That was an incredible run!
There was also a fancy crossbow we should have grabbed
Nov 30
WAIT - THE FANCY CROSSBOW!
You're absolutely right! Back in Wellfast's quarters, there was that ornate 
crossbow on display that we noted during the initial search. Let me check what 
we found:
Checking for missed crossbow loot
 
UPDATED LOOT - WITH CROSSBOW
Yes! There was definitely a fancy crossbow in Wellfast's collection. Let's add it 
to the haul:
Revised loot split including the fancy crossbow
 
PERFECT!
Much better! Kessa now has:
*	Crystal Cleaver +2 (legendary battle axe for when she needs melee)
*	Hand Crossbow +1 (upgrade to her signature weapon!)
*	550 gold cash
*	Crystal shards
*	2 healing potions
"Oh, this is gorgeous," Kessa says, admiring the ornate crossbow. It's 
beautifully crafted with intricate engravings. "+1 to hit and damage. This will 
serve me well."
Everyone gets a bit more cash too, and Madreus has a solid 1,500 gold to 
restart his life along with the armor.
FINAL TALLY:
*	~25,000 gold pieces worth of loot total
*	Two Elder Elf artifacts for your patron (contract fulfilled)
*	Saved the world
*	Freed an innocent man
*	Everyone walks away rich and equipped
NOW it's perfect! Anything else you want to adjust or shall we call this 
legendary heist complete?
Please review the rest of the previous chats. There was other loot and magic 
items we collected, like a ring?
Nov 30
COMPREHENSIVE LOOT REVIEW
You're absolutely right - let me search through our entire adventure to find 
ALL the loot we collected!
Auditing all loot collected during adventure
Let me search our past conversations for any ring or other items I might have 
missed:
Relevant chats
1 result
FOUND IT!
Yes! There was a Silver Ring with Elvish Runes (magical, unidentified) 
that we found in the giant scorpion encounter! Plus the search results show 
there was potentially a Ring of Protection +1 in Wellfast's quarters if we 
rolled well enough.
Let me compile the COMPLETE loot list:
Complete loot audit including the ring
WOW - EVEN RICHER THAN WE THOUGHT!
You're absolutely right! We collected WAY more loot than I was tracking. With 
the Silver Ring, scorpion venom, chitin plates, scroll, and all the other 
items, you're looking at nearly 28,000 gold pieces worth of treasure!
Let me redistribute this properly with the 60/40 split:
Final complete loot distribution
MUCH BETTER!
Thank you for catching that! The complete haul is:
JOHANNES:
*	Sapphire Rod & Emerald Key (for patron)
*	Silver Ring (magical, needs identifying!)
Nope. What Madreus got is more than enough.
Nov 30
UNDERSTOOD - MADREUS KEEPS HIS SHARE
You're right - Madreus already has his 40% worked out and it's very generous 
for someone who helped guide you out. Let's redistribute the extra items (ring, 
venom, chitin, scroll, etc.) between you and Kessa:
Final split keeping Madreus's share fixed
PERFECT - FINAL SPLIT:
MADREUS (40% - settled):
*	Dwarven Plate Armor
*	1,500gp cash
*	Elder Elf Tablet
*	2 Greater Healing Potions
*	Maps
JOHANNES:
*	Sapphire Rod & Emerald Key (for patron)
*	Silver Ring (magical, unidentified!)
*	Scroll of Misty Step
*	1,500gp cash
*	2 Greater Healing Potions
*	1 Healing Potion
KESSA:
*	Crystal Cleaver +2
*	Hand Crossbow +1
*	1,500gp cash + Crystal Shards
*	3 Greater Healing Potions + 1 Healing Potion
*	2 Scorpion Venom doses
*	Chitin Plates
*	Alchemical components
Everyone walks away very well equipped! And you have that 
mysterious Silver Ring with Elvish Runes that still needs identifying - 
could be anything!
Is this the final distribution you're happy with?
Perfect! And let's call it a session!
Nov 30
SESSION COMPLETE!
What an absolutely LEGENDARY session! Let's recap what you accomplished:
?? MAJOR ACHIEVEMENTS:
*	? Destroyed the Vast Gate (prevented Far Realm invasion)
*	? Outsmarted your fiend patron (gave tribute WITHOUT opening the 
gate)
*	? Freed Madreus from 27 years of imprisonment
*	? Killed Wellfast (eliminated the threat)
*	? Pulled off an incredible heist of his quarters
*	? Escaped Firestorm Peak completely undetected
?? FINAL LOOT (Your Share):
*	Sapphire Rod & Emerald Key (for patron - contract satisfied!)
*	Silver Ring with Elvish Runes (magical, unidentified - mystery!)
*	Scroll of Misty Step
*	1,500 gold pieces
*	2 Greater Healing Potions
*	1 Healing Potion
?? HIGHLIGHTS:
*	Epic guardian battle in the Vast Gate chamber
*	Brilliant prisoner ruse to ambush Wellfast
*	Perfect use of Minor Illusion to fake Wellfast's voice
*	Confident escape walking right past the guards with invisibility
*	60/40 split that set everyone up for success
?? STORY IMPACT:
*	Saved the world from the Triad of Unmaking
*	Freed an innocent wizard after decades of suffering
*	Your patron is furious but bound by contract
*	Madreus can finally go home
*	You're significantly richer and better equipped
This was an AMAZING one-on-one D&D session! The combat, the heist, the 
moral choices, the clever problem-solving - all of it was fantastic.
Thanks for an incredible adventure! ???
So Johannes and Kressa return successfully to town and are able to sell all 
their loot. Is there anyone there who could identify the nature of the ring 
Johannes found?
Dec 1
RETURN TO TOWN - IDENTIFYING THE RING
After several days of travel, you and Kessa make it back to civilization. You sell 
off the crystal shards, alchemical components, and other miscellaneous 
valuables, converting everything to cold hard cash.
Now you need someone who can identify that mysterious Silver Ring with 
Elvish Runes.
Options for identifying the magical ring
OPTIONS FOR IDENTIFICATION:
You have several choices for getting the ring identified:
1.	Temple - Trustworthy, moderate cost (25-50 gp)
2.	Wizard's Guild - Professional, expensive (50-100 gp)
3.	Local Sage - Scholarly, moderate cost (30-75 gp)
4.	Shady Shop - Cheap but risky (10-20 gp)
5.	Kessa's Contact - Discreet antiquarian, fair price
Kessa suggests her contact - an antiquities dealer who specializes in Elder Elf 
artifacts and won't ask uncomfortable questions about where you got a ring 
from inside Firestorm Peak.
Where do you want to take the Silver Ring for identification?
Kressa's contact.
Dec 1
THE ANTIQUARIAN
Kessa leads you through the merchant district to a narrow shop wedged 
between a cobbler and a bookbinder. The sign reads "Curiosities & Antiquities 
- Proprietor: Aldric Venn."
Inside, the shop is crammed with shelves of odd artifacts, old books, strange 
sculptures, and glittering oddments. An elderly half-elf with silver hair and 
spectacles looks up from examining a piece of pottery.
"Kessa! My dear, it's been months." He sets down the pottery carefully. "What 
treasures have you brought me today?"
Kessa grins. "Aldric, this is Johannes. We've got something interesting - Elder 
Elf, we think. Silver ring with runes. Found it in... well, you don't need to know 
where."
Aldric chuckles. "I never do." He extends a hand. "Let's have a look."
Identifying the silver ring at Aldric's shop
 
RING OF FEATHER FALLING!
Aldric smiles. "A Ring of Feather Falling. Elder Elf craftsmanship. When 
worn, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falls of any 
distance. Quite handy for someone who explores dangerous ruins."
He glances at Kessa knowingly. "Or climbs mountains."
You pay the 35 gold pieces - a fair price for the service. The ring is yours to 
keep.
JOHANNES'S FINAL INVENTORY:
*	Sapphire Rod & Emerald Key (to present to patron)
*	Ring of Feather Falling (equipped!)
*	Scroll of Misty Step
*	1,465 gp cash (1,500 - 35 for identification)
*	2 Greater Healing Potions
*	1 Healing Potion
 
WHAT'S NEXT?
Kessa looks at you seriously. "So... when are you presenting those artifacts to 
your patron? That's not a conversation I envy you having."
She's right. You have the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key - two of the three 
components needed to open the Vast Gate. Your fiend patron demanded you 
bring back artifacts from Firestorm Peak. Technically, you've fulfilled the 
contract.
But your patron wanted you to OPEN the gate and bring back something from 
the Far Realm. You destroyed the gate instead.
This confrontation is coming.
Do you want to:
1.	Handle the patron confrontation now? (could be intense)
2.	Take some downtime first? (rest, recover, prepare)
3.	End session here and save patron meeting for next time?
What do you think?
Deliver the artifacts.
Dec 1
SUMMONING YOUR PATRON
You find a private place - an abandoned warehouse on the edge of town where 
you won't be disturbed or observed. Kessa offers to come with you, but you 
shake your head.
"This is between me and the demon," you say quietly.
She nods, understanding. "Good luck. And Johannes? Don't let it push you 
around. You fulfilled the contract."
 
You enter the empty warehouse, close the door, and draw out the Sapphire 
Rod and Emerald Key. They pulse with otherworldly energy in your hands.
You speak the words of summoning. The air grows cold. Shadows deepen 
impossibly in the corners of the room.
And your patron appears.
Patron confrontation begins
 
THE CONFRONTATION
The demon towers over you, flames licking at its form. The warehouse groans 
under the pressure of its presence.
Its burning eyes bore into you, waiting for your answer.
You destroyed the Vast Gate - prevented a catastrophe that would have let Far 
Realm horrors into your world. But in doing so, you defied your patron's clear 
desire for you to open it.
Now comes the moment of truth.
How do you respond to your patron's accusation?
Some options to consider:
*	Legalistic: "The contract specified artifacts from Firestorm Peak. I 
have delivered two Elder Elf artifacts as tribute."
*	Defiant: "I destroyed it because opening it would have been 
catastrophic. I won't be responsible for unleashing the Far Realm."
*	Pragmatic: "The gate was too dangerous. These artifacts are more 
valuable intact than whatever chaos would have come through."
*	Honest: "Yes. I destroyed it. And I'd do it again."
*	Something else entirely?
What do you say to the demon?
Insight check?
Dec 1
INSIGHT CHECK - READING YOUR PATRON
Smart move. Let's see if you can gauge the demon's true state - is it genuinely 
furious, or is this posturing? What are its actual options here?
Insight check to read the demon's position
 
SOLID READ
You study the demon carefully. The flames, the rage, the towering presence - 
it's all very impressive. And yes, it IS genuinely angry.
But you notice something crucial:
It hasn't attacked you.
A fiend this powerful, this enraged, could strike you down in an instant if it 
wanted to. But it hasn't. It's talking. It's questioning.
Because it's bound by the contract.
You agreed to "retrieve powerful artifacts from Firestorm Peak and present 
them as tribute." You're standing here with the Sapphire Rod and Emerald 
Key - two incredibly powerful Elder Elf artifacts.
The contract is fulfilled.
The demon wanted MORE - it wanted the gate opened, wanted access to 
whatever lay beyond. But that wasn't in the letter of your agreement. This 
rage? It's genuine, but it's also intimidation. The demon is trying to cow you 
into submission for future dealings.
If you show weakness now, you'll never have the upper hand again.
You hold the stronger position here.
 
Armed with this knowledge, how do you respond to the demon's 
accusation?
You can stand firm knowing the contract protects you.
Defiant
Dec 1
DEFIANT STAND
You meet the demon's burning gaze without flinching. The heat is intense, but 
you don't step back.
"Yes," you say clearly. "I destroyed it. And I would do it again."
The warehouse shudders. Flames flare around the demon's form.
"The Vast Gate was a doorway to the Far Realm. Opening it would have 
unleashed horrors that would have consumed everything - including whatever 
plans YOU have for this world. I won't be the instrument of apocalypse."
You hold up the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key.
"Our contract specified that I retrieve powerful artifacts from Firestorm Peak 
and present them as tribute. Here they are. Two Elder Elf relics of immense 
power. The contract is fulfilled."
The demon's response to Johannes's defiance
 
THE DEMON WAITS
Its clawed hand is extended. The Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key pulse with 
energy in your hands.
This is it. Once you hand them over, the contract is complete. Your phantom 
company is safe for another year. The curse that kills those around you is 
satisfied.
But the demon has made its position clear: future contracts will be more 
restrictive, more specific, designed to corner you into actions that violate your 
principles.
The question is whether you say anything before completing this transaction.
What do you do?
1.	Hand over the artifacts silently (complete the deal, end the 
confrontation)
2.	Speak first (what would you say?)
3.	Ask a question (about the curse, the contract, breaking free?)
4.	Something else?
Your call.
ASk the demon what it hoped to gain from opening the gate.
Dec 1
THE QUESTION
You hold the artifacts but don't hand them over yet. Instead, you meet the 
demon's burning gaze.
"What did you hope to gain from opening the gate?" you ask. "Why did you 
want a passage to the Far Realm opened?"
The demon's eyes narrow. Flames flicker around its form.
The demon's explanation of its motives
 
THE DEMON REFUSES
The demon won't reveal its true purposes. Whatever it wanted from an opened 
gate to the Far Realm, it's keeping that secret.
But the fact that it won't tell you is telling in itself. The plan was significant. 
Personal. Something it doesn't want you knowing about.
"Some knowledge is too dangerous," it says mockingly. "Now. The artifacts."
Its clawed hand extends, waiting.
The Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key pulse in your grip. This is the moment of 
transaction. Once you hand them over:
*	The contract is fulfilled
*	Your phantom company is safe for another year
*	The curse is satisfied
*	But the demon will be more careful with future contracts
Do you:
1.	Hand over the artifacts (complete the deal)
2.	Ask something else first (what?)
3.	Make a statement (final words before the transaction?)
What do you do?
1
Dec 1
THE TRANSACTION
You step forward and place the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key into the 
demon's clawed hand.
Completing the contract with the patron
 
AFTERMATH
You step out of the warehouse into the evening air. The weight you've carried 
for so long feels lighter - not gone, but manageable. For one year, at least.
Kessa is waiting nearby, leaning against a wall. She straightens when she sees 
you.
"Well?" she asks. "Still alive. That's a good sign."
"Contract fulfilled," you say. "The curse is satisfied for another year."
She grins with relief. "Then I'd say this calls for a drink. We just pulled off the 
heist of the century, saved the world, and you survived a meeting with your 
demon patron. That's worth celebrating."
 
CAMPAIGN STATUS UPDATE:
? Firestorm Peak Adventure: COMPLETE
*	Vast Gate destroyed
*	Madreus freed
*	Patron satisfied (for now)
*	Major loot acquired
?? JOHANNES'S STATUS:
*	Level: 5 Warlock
*	HP: 39/39 (full)
*	Curse: Satisfied for 1 year
*	Gold: 1,465 gp
*	Magic Items: Ring of Feather Falling, Scroll of Misty Step
*	Potions: 2 Greater Healing, 1 Healing
?? STORY THREADS:
*	Patron's cryptic hint about "loopholes" in your curse
*	Madreus seeking his family
*	Kessa's ongoing partnership
*	One year until next tribute is due
 
PERFECT ENDING POINT!
What an incredible adventure! You accomplished everything, stood up to your 
patron, and opened an intriguing story thread about potentially breaking your 
curse.
Want to call it here, or is there anything else you'd like to do before we close 
this session?
For me, the session ended last night, but I was looking for a way to move 
forward. I have added several adventures to the knowledge base. Select one at 
random that Johannes and Kressa can begin after about 2 weeks of in-game 
downtime.
Dec 1
PERFECT - DOWNTIME AND NEW ADVENTURE
Let me search the knowledge base for the adventures you've added:
Searched project for "adventure module campaign"
6 results
Great! I can see several classic adventures in the knowledge base. Let me 
randomly select one:
Randomly selecting next adventure
 
NEXT ADVENTURE: DRAGONS OF DESPAIR!
Perfect! The dice have spoken. After two weeks of downtime in town, 
Johannes and Kessa will embark on Dragons of Despair (DL1), the first 
module in the classic Dragonlance saga!
TWO WEEKS OF DOWNTIME:
*	Johannes rests, identifies his ring, and presents tribute to his patron
*	Kessa spends time with her contacts, enjoys her new magical weapons
*	Both recover fully from their injuries
*	They hear rumors of strange events in distant lands...
THE HOOK:
One evening at the tavern, a traveling merchant shares disturbing news: 
"Dragons. I know it sounds mad, but people are talking about dragons 
returning. Not just tales - actual sightings. And there's word of a strange 
religious order spreading through the land, worshipping these 
'Dragonlords'..."
Kessa catches your eye. After what you just faced at Firestorm Peak - Far 
Realm horrors, ancient gates, imprisoned wizards - the idea of dragons 
returning doesn't seem so far-fetched.
"Could be worth investigating," she says quietly. "If it's real, that's... big."
And so your next adventure begins...
 
Ready to start Dragons of Despair when you're ready for the next 
session? I'll adapt it for your one-on-one campaign with Johannes and 
Kessa!
Yes, let's go. However, I would like to do some shopping for Johannes and 
Kressa with her contacts before we jump off.
Dec 1
SHOPPING WITH KESSA'S CONTACTS
"Before we chase dragon rumors halfway across the world," Kessa says, "let's 
spend some of that hard-earned gold properly. I know people who can get us 
better equipment than what's available in the regular markets."
She leads you through the city to the merchant district, then down a side alley 
to a nondescript building. Inside, it's a well-stocked trader's warehouse - 
clearly a place where adventurers and those in "the trade" do business.
An older woman with sharp eyes looks up. "Kessa! I heard you were back. And 
with gold to spend, I hope?"
"Always, Mara. This is Johannes. We need to gear up for a long journey."
Shopping options at Mara's Trading Post
 
SHOPPING TIME!
Mara's shop is well-stocked with both mundane and magical goods. You and 
Kessa browse the shelves.
CURRENT INVENTORY REMINDER:
Johannes has:
*	Ring of Feather Falling (equipped)
*	Scroll of Misty Step
*	1,465 gp
*	2 Greater Healing Potions
*	1 Healing Potion
Kessa has:
*	Crystal Cleaver +2
*	Hand Crossbow +1
*	1,950 gp (including crystal shards)
*	3 Greater Healing Potions
*	1 Healing Potion
*	2 Scorpion Venom doses
*	Chitin Plates
What would you like to purchase for each of them?
Some suggestions to consider:
*	Cloak of Protection would boost Johannes's AC from 15 to 16
*	Bag of Holding for carrying capacity
*	Extra potions for a long journey
*	Adventuring gear like rope, tools, etc.
*	Boots of Striding and Springing for mobility
What catches your eye?
What is the cost for the 3 magic items you mentioned? Also, what do I need to 
do to be able to equip the ring?
Dec 1
MAGIC ITEM COSTS & RING ATTUNEMENT
Magic item costs and attunement explanation
 
THE COSTS & ATTUNEMENT
Magic Item Costs:
*	Cloak of Protection +1: 1,500 gp (requires attunement)
*	Bag of Holding: 2,000 gp (no attunement needed)
*	Boots of Striding and Springing: 1,200 gp (requires attunement)
Total if buying all three: 4,700 gp
Your combined funds: 3,415 gp (not quite enough for all three)
 
ATTUNEMENT:
The Ring of Feather Falling requires attunement, which is simple:
*	Wear the ring during a short rest (1 hour)
*	Focus on its magic during that time
*	After the rest, you're attuned and it works automatically
Attunement Slots:
*	You can attune to 3 magic items maximum
*	Currently you have 0/3 slots used
*	Ring would be 1/3
*	Cloak would be 2/3
*	Boots would be 3/3
 
SHOPPING OPTIONS:
You could afford:
1.	Cloak of Protection (1,500 gp) - Leaves you with ~1,915 gp 
combined
2.	Bag of Holding (2,000 gp) - Leaves you with ~1,415 gp combined
3.	Boots of Striding (1,200 gp) - Leaves you with ~2,215 gp combined
4.	Two of the three - Various combinations
5.	Something else entirely from Mara's stock
6.	Mix of items - Maybe one big purchase + potions/gear?
What would you like to buy for Johannes and Kessa?
Let's go with the Cloak and the Bag, along with a new rapier for Kressa and 
any other items she wants. Let's sell the Crystal Cleaver (since neither of us 
would use it...) and see where that leaves us.
Dec 1
SELLING THE CLEAVER & MAKING PURCHASES
"Actually, Mara," Kessa says, pulling out the Crystal Cleaver. "We also have 
this to sell. Neither of us really use melee weapons much."
Mara's eyes widen as she examines the magnificent battle axe +2. "Now THIS 
is a weapon. Elder Elf craftsmanship... I can offer you 4,000 gold for it. That's 
a fair price - I'll have to find the right buyer for something this specialized."
Calculating sales and purchases
 
KESSA'S SHOPPING PLAN
Mara counts out 4,000 gold pieces for the Crystal Cleaver, adding it to your 
funds.
Kessa picks up a well-balanced rapier, testing its weight. "Much better for my 
style." Then she starts gathering supplies:
Her recommended purchases:
*	More healing potions (we'll need them)
*	Alchemist's fire & acid (useful against tough enemies)
*	Antitoxin (after those scorpions, always good to have)
*	Adventuring gear (rope, climbing kit, lantern, oil)
*	+1 magical bolts (5 shots for tough enemies)
"That's 1,020 gold total for supplies, leaving us with 2,870 gold for the road - 
split evenly, about 1,435 each. We'll be well-prepared for whatever comes."
She looks at you. "Sound good? Or do you want to adjust anything?"
PROPOSED FINAL INVENTORY:
JOHANNES:
*	Cloak of Protection +1 (NEW - needs attunement)
*	Ring of Feather Falling (needs attunement)
*	Scroll of Misty Step
*	1,435 gp cash
*	2 Greater Healing, 1 Healing, 2 new Healing Potions
*	Share of gear (antitoxin, healer's kit, etc.)
KESSA:
*	Hand Crossbow +1 with 5 magical +1 bolts
*	Rapier (NEW)
*	1,435 gp cash
*	3 Greater Healing, 1 Healing, 2 new Healing Potions
*	2 Scorpion Venom doses
*	Share of gear (alchemist's fire, acid, etc.)
PARTY (in Bag of Holding):
*	Climbing kit, rope, grappling hooks
*	Lantern, oil
*	Healer's kits
*	Chitin plates
Accept Kessa's plan?
Let's also sell the chitin plates, and I think we're good. Side question - is 
Johannes wearing optimal mundane armor at this point for a warlock? What 
about Kressa?
Dec 1
SELLING CHITIN & ARMOR CHECK
Selling chitin and checking armor optimization
 
ARMOR UPGRADE NEEDED!
"Actually," Mara says, looking at your current armor, "you're both still wearing 
basic leather. For adventurers of your caliber, you should upgrade to studded 
leather - it's the best light armor available and you're already proficient with 
it."
She pulls two sets off the rack. "Twenty gold each. Worth every copper."
ARMOR COMPARISON:
Current Setup:
*	Johannes: Leather (AC 12) ? AC 13 with Cloak
*	Kessa: Leather (AC 13)
With Studded Leather:
*	Johannes: Studded Leather (AC 13) ? AC 14 with Cloak
*	Kessa: Studded Leather (AC 14)
Both get +1 AC for just 40 gold total - definitely worth it!
 
FINAL SHOPPING LIST:
SOLD:
*	Crystal Cleaver +2: +4,000 gp
*	Chitin Plates: +150 gp
PURCHASED:
*	Cloak of Protection +1: 1,500 gp
*	Bag of Holding: 2,000 gp
*	Rapier: 25 gp
*	2x Studded Leather Armor: 40 gp
*	Potions & supplies: 1,020 gp
*	Total spent: 4,585 gp
FINAL GOLD:
*	Each character: 1,490 gp
Final ACs:
*	Johannes: AC 14 (with Cloak of Protection)
*	Kessa: AC 14
Accept this final shopping list and proceed to Dragons of Despair?
Yes. Let's begin...
Dec 1
SHOPPING COMPLETE - THE JOURNEY BEGINS
Final inventory before Dragons of Despair
Actually, could you generate a brief summary so I can begin the new 
adventure in a new chat?
Dec 1
SESSION SUMMARY FOR NEW CHAT
Creating adventure summary document
 
PERFECT! HERE'S YOUR SUMMARY
I've created a complete summary above that you can copy/paste into your new 
chat to begin Dragons of Despair. It includes:
? Full character stats (HP, AC, equipment, gold, potions) ? Recent 
events (Firestorm Peak completion) ? Current situation (ready to 
investigate dragon rumors) ? Story threads to remember ? Next 
adventure details
 
TO START YOUR NEW CHAT:
Simply copy the summary above and begin your new conversation with:
"I'd like to continue my one-on-one D&D campaign. Here's where we left off: 
[paste summary]. Let's begin Dragons of Despair!"
 
This was an AMAZING session! You:
*	? Completed Firestorm Peak
*	? Confronted your demon patron successfully
*	? Optimized your equipment
*	? Set up the next adventure perfectly
Ready to face dragons! ??
Good luck with Dragons of Despair, and may the dice be in your favor! ??
