THE DECISION POINT
You weigh it in your mind. Roughly 5,000 to 15,000 gold pieces worth of loot, 
with the Crystal Cleaver being the crown jewel. That's a life-changing amount 
of money for most people.
But you'd be risking:
*        Getting caught deep in enemy territory
*        Fighting Wellfast (a formidable opponent)
*        Alerting the garrison (potentially dozens of Duergar)
*        Compromising your escape with Madreus
On the other hand:
*        Madreus knows a secret route
*        Kessa is excellent at stealth
*        You have invisibility if needed
*        The potential reward is substantial
Kessa leans back. "I'm in if you are. But I won't lie - I'm getting that itch. The 
'let's just get out alive' itch. We've already pulled off the impossible. The gate's 
destroyed, we have valuable loot, and we're all still breathing."
She grins. "But I'm also a professional thief. And the idea of completely 
cleaning out that Duergar bastard? That's tempting."
Madreus says nothing, leaving the choice to you.
Final decision:
A) Hit Wellfast's quarters - Go for the Crystal Cleaver and additional loot 
via secret route B) Head straight for the exit - You've already won, don't 
push your luck
What's your call?
What the hell let's try it
Nov 30
ALL IN
"What the hell," you say with a grin. "We've come this far. Let's finish the job 
properly. Madreus, show us this secret route."
Kessa's eyes light up. "Now we're talking! One last heist before we leave this 
place forever."
Madreus nods, though he looks nervous. "Alright. But we do this carefully. 
Quietly. If we alert the garrison, we run - no heroics."
"Agreed," you say.
 
THE SECRET ROUTE
Madreus leads you out of the Vast Gate chamber and through a series of 
passages you haven't explored. He navigates with the confidence of someone 
who's spent twenty-seven years mapping every inch of this mountain.
Navigating secret tunnels to Wellfast's quarters
 
SMOOTH PASSAGE
The secret route is clear. Madreus navigates confidently through passages that 
show no signs of recent use - decades or even centuries of dust coat 
everything.
"I'm probably the only person who's used these tunnels in a thousand years," 
he whispers. "The Elder Elves built redundancy into everything. The Duergar 
never found these passages."
You pass through remarkable chambers:
*        A laboratory with crystalline equipment still intact
*        A library with stone tablets in perfect preservation
*        Storage rooms filled with unidentifiable Elder Elf artifacts
"We could spend months cataloging all this," Kessa mutters, eyeing the 
treasures. "But that's for another expedition."
Finally, Madreus stops at a blank stone wall.
"Here," he says quietly. "Wellfast's quarters are on the other side. This is a 
one-way passage - Elder Elf magic. We can go through, but we can't come back 
this way. We'll need to exit through his front door."
"Is that a problem?" you ask.
"Depends on whether he's home. If he's on patrol like I expect, we go in, grab 
what we want, and leave through the normal corridors before he returns."
"And if he's home?" Kessa asks.
"Then we improvise."
 
RECONNAISSANCE
Checking if Wellfast is home
 
COMPLICATION
Madreus presses his ear to the wall and goes pale.
"He's home," he whispers. "I can hear him. He's... talking to someone. Or 
maybe to himself. The gibberslug makes him erratic."
Kessa frowns. "Do we wait for him to leave? Or..."
You have options:
A) WAIT IT OUT
*        Hide in the tunnels and wait for Wellfast to leave on patrol
*        Could take hours, or he might not leave at all
*        Safest option but time-consuming
B) SNEAK IN ANYWAY
*        Use invisibility and stealth to enter while he's distracted
*        Grab the Crystal Cleaver and get out
*        Risky but possible with good rolls
C) AMBUSH HIM
*        Attack while he's unaware in his own quarters
*        Take him down, then loot at leisure
*        Combat risk but eliminates the threat
D) ABORT
*        This is too risky, head straight for the exit
*        Keep what you have, don't push your luck
E) CREATIVE SOLUTION?
*        Use magic to distract/lure him away?
*        Something else?
Kessa whispers: "Your call, boss. I can go invisible and try to sneak in, or we 
can jump him, or we can walk away."
What do you want to do?
Hear me out. Classic prisoner ruse. Madreus pretends to have caught me in 
the act and is bringing me in for investigation. Everyone else out, including 
guards. Kressa sneaks in invisible and when it's just us, we take on Wellfast.
Nov 30
THE PRISONER RUSE
You lay out the plan in whispers. "Madreus, you 'captured' me trying to steal 
from the complex. You're bringing me to Wellfast for interrogation. Demand 
privacy - clear out any guards or servants. Kessa goes invisible and sneaks in 
with us. Once it's just us and Wellfast, we take him down together."
Kessa grins. "I love it. Classic misdirection."
Madreus considers, then nods slowly. "It could work. Wellfast knows me - 
we've worked together for years. He'd believe I caught an intruder. And he's 
paranoid enough that he'd want privacy for an interrogation."
"Can you sell it?" you ask.
"I'm a wizard who's survived twenty-seven years in this hellhole by being 
clever. Yes, I can sell it."
 
SETTING UP THE RUSE
Setting up the prisoner ruse
 
EXECUTING THE RUSE
Kessa vanishes from sight with a whispered spell. You feel her tap your 
shoulder - she's ready.
Madreus ties your hands loosely behind your back, gives you a significant look, 
then leads you through the secret passage. You emerge in a side corridor near 
Wellfast's quarters.
Taking a deep breath, Madreus straightens his robes and adopts an air of 
authority you haven't seen before. This is the conjurer he was before twenty-
seven years of imprisonment broke him - confident, commanding.
He marches you to Wellfast's door and pounds on it.
"Wellfast! Open up! I've caught an intruder!"
Wellfast's reaction to the ruse
 
WELLFAST TAKES THE BAIT
The door swings open. Wellfast stands there - a muscular Duergar in fine 
armor, his Crystal Cleaver battle axe leaning against the wall within reach. His 
eyes are... wrong. Slightly too wide, pupils dilated. The gibberslug infection.
"Madreus?" he says, surprised. "You caught someone?"
"This human," Madreus says with perfect disdain, shoving you forward. "I 
found him sneaking through the lower passages. Near the Vast Gate chamber."
Wellfast's expression darkens. "The gate? After someone stole the sapphire 
rod?" He glares at you. "Was that you, worm?"
You stay silent, playing the captured thief.
A Duergar servant hovers in the background, organizing papers.
"Leave us," Wellfast snaps at the servant. "I'll interrogate this one myself."
"Commander, are you certain-" the servant begins.
"OUT!" Wellfast roars.
The servant scrambles out, closing the door behind him.
Now it's just you, Madreus, Wellfast... and the invisible Kessa positioning 
herself behind the Duergar commander.
Perfect.
Wellfast turns back to you, reaching for his axe. "Now then, let's discuss what 
you were doing near-"
 
STRIKE NOW?
This is the moment. Wellfast suspects nothing. He's alone with you. Kessa is 
invisible behind him. Madreus is ready.
Initiative time. What's your opening move?
A) AMBUSH - ALL OUT
*        You break your bonds and attack immediately
*        Madreus casts an offensive spell
*        Kessa backstabs with sneak attack
*        Maximum surprise damage
B) TALK BRIEFLY FIRST
*        Stall for a moment to position better
*        Get him to turn his back to Kessa
*        Then strike
C) LET MADREUS LEAD
*        He knows Wellfast better
*        Might have a better opening
What do you do?
All out now. Hex ,EB no hold barred
Nov 30
AMBUSH - NO MERCY
The moment Wellfast turns away from Madreus to focus on you, you make 
your move.
Your "bonds" snap apart - they were never really tied. Dark energy coils 
around Wellfast as you cast Hex, then both hands come up blazing with 
eldritch power.
"NOW!" you shout.
Rolling initiative for the Wellfast ambush
 
SURPRISE ROUND - MADREUS GOES FIRST
Madreus doesn't hesitate. His hands blur through arcane gestures as he shouts 
a word of power.
Madreus's surprise round spell
Madreus's spell washes over Wellfast, but the Duergar commander shakes it 
off with a grunt, his infected willpower somehow resisting the magic.
"Traitor!" Wellfast snarls at Madreus.
 
KESSA'S TURN - SURPRISE
Kessa strikes from invisibility, her hand crossbow aimed at Wellfast's 
unprotected neck.
Kessa's sneak attack from invisibility
Kessa's bolt pings off Wellfast's armored shoulder plate. The Dwarven plate is 
incredibly thick - even a perfect shot can't penetrate it easily.
She becomes visible, already reloading. "Tough bastard!"
 
JOHANNES'S TURN - SURPRISE
Your turn. You cast Hex on Wellfast, dark energy wrapping around him, then 
unleash both Eldritch Blast beams.
Johannes's Hex and Eldritch Blast attack
 
FIRST BLOOD
Your first Eldritch Blast slams into Wellfast's chest. The force and necrotic 
energy bypass his armor, making him stagger.
16 damage!
Your second beam goes wide as he lurches to the side.
 
END OF SURPRISE ROUND
Damage to Wellfast: 16 Wellfast cannot act (surprised)
 
ROUND 1 BEGINS - NORMAL INITIATIVE
Initiative Order:
1.        Madreus (20)
2.        Kessa (10)
3.        Johannes (7)
4.        Wellfast (5)
Wellfast can finally act now. He's wounded, surrounded, and realizes he's been 
betrayed.
"You'll pay for this!" he roars, reaching for his Crystal Cleaver.
MADREUS'S TURN - ROUND 1
What should Madreus do?
*        Another offensive spell
*        Defensive/control spell
*        Summon something
*        (I'll resolve his action, then it's Kessa's turn, then yours)
The fight is on!
Control spell?
Nov 30
MADREUS - BATTLEFIELD CONTROL
Madreus sees Wellfast reaching for the Crystal Cleaver and acts fast. His 
hands weave another spell, more carefully this time.
Madreus casts Web to restrain Wellfast
Sticky magical webbing erupts around Wellfast, but the veteran warrior tears 
through it with brute strength, his armor protecting him from the worst of it.
"Nice try, wizard!" he snarls.
 
KESSA'S TURN - ROUND 1
Kessa fires another crossbow bolt, aiming for gaps in the armor.
Kessa's attack in Round 1
Another bolt pings off the heavy armor. "This armor is ridiculous!" Kessa 
mutters.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN - ROUND 1
Your turn. Wellfast is wounded (16 HP down) but still dangerous. Your Hex is 
active on him.
Current status:
*        Wellfast: Wounded, not restrained, high AC (18)
*        Johannes: 39/39 HP, Hex active
*        Kessa: 38/38 HP
*        Madreus: 37/45 HP
What do you do?
*        Eldritch Blast again (2 beams, Hex damage on hits)
*        Cast a different spell (what?)
*        Something creative?
Your move!
EB
Nov 30
ELDRITCH BLAST - KEEP THE PRESSURE ON
You unleash both beams again, the Hex curse making each hit more 
devastating.
Johannes's Eldritch Blast in Round 1
 
ANOTHER SOLID HIT
Your first beam slams into Wellfast again, the combined force and necrotic 
energy making him grunt in pain.
14 damage! Total: 30 damage dealt!
Your second beam goes wide as he shifts position.
Wellfast is bloodied now - halfway down. But he's still very much in the fight.
 
WELLFAST'S TURN - ROUND 1
The Duergar commander finally gets to act. His eyes are wild with rage and 
the gibberslug infection makes him even more erratic.
"You dare betray ME?!" he roars at Madreus. Then he grabs the Crystal 
Cleaver from where it leans against the wall.
Wellfast's counterattack
 
WELLFAST STRIKES BACK
Wellfast whirls on Kessa, the Crystal Cleaver blazing with magical light. He's a 
skilled warrior, and even wounded he's deadly.
SLASH!
The first strike catches Kessa across the shoulder, cutting deep.
10 damage!
CRACK!
The second blow hammers into her side.
8 damage!
Kessa: 38/38 ? 20/38 HP!
She staggers back, blood pouring from the wounds. "Fuck! That thing 
HURTS!"
 
END OF ROUND 1
Status update between rounds
 
ROUND 2 - MADREUS'S TURN
Madreus sees Kessa badly wounded and makes a decision. He points at 
Wellfast and shouts an incantation.
Madreus's attack in Round 2
One ray of fire strikes true, scorching Wellfast's armor and making him roar in 
pain.
11 damage! Wellfast at 39/80 HP!
 
KESSA'S TURN - ROUND 2
Kessa is badly wounded but still fighting. She fires another bolt while backing 
away from Wellfast's reach.
Kessa's attack and tactical retreat
Another miss! The armor is just too strong. But Kessa smartly retreats out of 
melee range.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN - ROUND 2
Wellfast is at 39/80 HP. Almost halfway dead. Your turn.
What do you do?
*        Eldritch Blast (keep hammering him)
*        Different spell (what?)
*        Something else?
Your call!
Watch the language please. Eb
Nov 30
ELDRITCH BLAST - FINISH HIM
You keep the pressure on, firing both beams at the bloodied Duergar 
commander.
Johannes's Eldritch Blast in Round 2
 
DEVASTATING BARRAGE
Your first beam catches Wellfast square in the chest - a CRITICAL hit! The 
eldritch force tears through him, the Hex curse magnifying the damage 
catastrophically.
21 damage!
Your second beam follows immediately, slamming into his gut.
14 damage!
Total: 35 damage!
Wellfast staggers, blood pouring from multiple wounds. He's barely standing - 
only 4 HP left. One more solid hit will drop him.
But he's still on his feet, still gripping the Crystal Cleaver, eyes wild with pain 
and rage.
 
WELLFAST'S TURN - ROUND 2
The Duergar commander knows he's dying. In desperation, he charges at the 
nearest target.
Wellfast's desperate final attacks
 
WELLFAST'S LAST STAND
The dying Duergar summons every ounce of strength and launches a furious 
assault. The Crystal Cleaver blazes with magical light as he swings it twice in 
rapid succession.
SLASH!
The first blow carves across your chest.
11 damage!
CRACK!
The second hammers into your shoulder.
10 damage!
Johannes: 39/39 ? 18/39 HP!
You're bloodied! The magical axe cuts deep, and for a moment you stagger 
under the onslaught.
But Wellfast is spent. He's given everything he has left. He stands there, 
swaying, barely conscious.
 
END OF ROUND 2
Combat Status:
*        Wellfast: 4/80 HP (on death's door)
*        Johannes: 18/39 HP (bloodied)
*        Kessa: 20/38 HP (wounded, 30 feet away)
*        Madreus: 37/45 HP
 
ROUND 3 - MADREUS'S TURN
Madreus sees Wellfast teetering and fires one more Firebolt cantrip to finish 
him.
Madreus's finishing attack
The fire bolt goes wide!
Wellfast is still standing - barely.
KESSA'S TURN - ROUND 3
Kessa takes careful aim from range.
Kessa's finishing attack
Another miss off the armor!
JOHANNES'S TURN - ROUND 3
Wellfast is at 4 HP, swaying on his feet. One hit will finish this.
Your move - end it?
Yep.
Nov 30
FINISH HIM
You raise both hands one final time. Wellfast looks at you with defiant, pain-
filled eyes.
"For... the master..." he croaks.
You unleash Eldritch Blast.
Johannes's final Eldritch Blast on Wellfast
 
CRITICAL HIT - WELLFAST DIES
Your eldritch beam strikes Wellfast directly in the chest. The force and 
necrotic energy punch through his armor and heart simultaneously.
He drops the Crystal Cleaver. It clatters to the stone floor, still glowing with 
magical light.
Wellfast stumbles backward, looks down at the smoking wound, then up at 
Madreus.
"You... were supposed... to help us..." he whispers.
Then he collapses, dead before he hits the ground.
 
COMBAT OVER - VICTORY!
Combat summary and looting opportunity
 
THE AFTERMATH
Silence falls. Wellfast's body lies motionless on the floor.
Kessa slumps against the wall, breathing hard. "That was close. That axe hits 
HARD."
Madreus looks at Wellfast's corpse with something like sadness. "He was a 
good warrior once. Before the gibberslug. Before all of this."
You pick up the Crystal Cleaver. It's beautiful - a perfectly balanced battle 
axe with a blade that seems to be carved from a single crystal, glowing with 
inner light. The magical energy thrums in your hands.
Battle Axe +2 acquired!
"We should heal and search quickly," Kessa says. "Someone might have heard 
the fight."
Madreus nods and casts a healing spell on Kessa, then you.
Healing and looting Wellfast's quarters
 
EXCELLENT HAUL
The search yields treasure beyond expectations:
*        Crystal Cleaver +2 (the prize)
*        852 gold pieces in coins and valuables
*        3 Potions of Greater Healing
*        Maps showing safe routes through the complex
*        Keys to bypass locked doors
*        Dwarven Plate armor (heavy but valuable)
Kessa eyes the armor. "That plate is worth serious money, but it weighs as 
much as a small person. We'd need to carry it out."
Madreus looks concerned. "The longer we stay, the more risk. We should 
move soon."
Do you:
*        Take everything including the armor (slower movement, 
encumbered)
*        Leave the armor, take everything else (faster escape)
*        Something creative? (Use a spell to transport it? Hide it to retrieve 
later?)
And then: Ready to make your escape from Firestorm Peak?
How much is the armor worth?
Nov 30
APPRAISING THE ARMOR
Madreus examines the Dwarven Plate carefully. "This is masterwork 
craftsmanship. Genuine Dwarven make, before Wellfast became... what he 
was."
Evaluating whether to take the Dwarven Plate armor
 
THE ARMOR DILEMMA
So the Dwarven Plate is worth 1,500-3,000 gold, but:
*        Weighs 65 lbs
*        None of you can wear it effectively (need STR 15)
*        Would significantly slow your escape
*        You're already carrying a huge haul
Current total loot:
*        Crystal Cleaver +2 (~5,000 gp value)
*        852 gp in portable wealth
*        3 Greater Healing Potions
*        Valuable maps and keys
*        PLUS the 2,650 gp worth of loot from earlier
*        PLUS the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key for your patron
Grand total without armor: ~8,500 gp + two Elder Elf artifacts
That's already an incredibly successful expedition.
Kessa makes her case: "We came for the Cleaver. We got the Cleaver. 
Everything else is bonus. Let's not get greedy and die trying to haul 65 pounds 
of metal through hostile territory."
Madreus nods. "Speed is survival. The longer we're here, the more likely we 
get caught."
What do you decide?
*        Leave the armor - Travel light and fast
*        Take the armor - Risk slower escape for extra 1,500+ gp
*        Something else?
Your call!
Would it take more than an hour to leave if I were to cast Invisible and carry it 
myself and Madreus were to walk out as if he didn't have s car in the world. 
Wellfast doesn't want to be disturbed. Period. Kressa, none of anyone's 
business.
Nov 30
CLEVER PLAN
You think it through. "Actually... I have an idea. Madreus, you walk out of here 
like you own the place. You're Wellfast's colleague - no one will question you. 
Tell anyone who asks that Wellfast is not to be disturbed. Period."
"Kessa, you slip out however you do best. And I..." you pick up the heavy 
armor, "I'll cast Invisibility on myself and carry this out. If we move at a 
normal pace, we should be out in what, 30-40 minutes?"
Madreus considers. "That... could work. The Duergar know me. They won't 
question my presence. And if I tell them Wellfast is conducting sensitive 
business and doesn't want interruptions, they'll believe it."
Kessa grins. "I like it. Confidence is the best disguise."
Evaluating the confident exit strategy
 
FINAL PREPARATIONS
"Alright," Madreus says, straightening his robes and adopting that 
authoritative bearing again. "Give me two minutes to get ahead, then follow. 
I'll clear the way."
Kessa checks her gear. "I'll take a parallel route. Meet you at the crystal gates."
You heft the heavy Dwarven Plate - 65 pounds of metal. It's awkward but 
manageable. You cast Invisibility on yourself and vanish from sight.
"Can't see you at all," Kessa confirms. "Perfect."
Madreus takes a deep breath. "Twenty-seven years I've waited for this. Let's 
not mess it up now." He opens the door and strides out confidently.
 
THE ESCAPE - EXECUTING THE PLAN
Ready to make your escape from Firestorm Peak with all the loot?
Let's do this!
Do it
Nov 30
THE GREAT ESCAPE
Madreus exits first, walking with purpose and authority. You give him a two-
minute head start, then carefully lift the Dwarven Plate armor, cast Invisibility 
on yourself, and follow.
Kessa slips out through a side passage, already fading into the shadows.
Ranpython3 << 'EOF' import random print("ESCAPE FROM 
FIRESTORM PEAK") print("=" * 50) print("\n>>> MADREUS - 
THE CONFIDENT EXIT") print("Walking through Duergar 
territory openly...") # Madreus Deception/Performance 
check madreus_performance = random.randint(1, 20) + 4 
print(f"\nMadreus Performance: {madreus_performance}") if 
madreus_performance >= 15: print("\n>>> EXCELLENT 
PERFORMANCE!") print("Madreus commands respect and 
authority") madreus_success = "excellent" elif 
madreus_performance >= 10: print("\n>>> GOOD 
PERFORMANCE") print("Madreus is believable") 
madreus_success = "good" else: print("\n>>> SHAKY 
PERFORMANCE") print("Some Duergar look suspicious") 
madreus_success = "poor" print(f"Result: 
{madreus_success}") print("\n" + "=" * 50) print(">>> 
KESSA - THE SNEAKY EXIT") print("Using stealth and 
shadows...") # Kessa Stealth check kessa_stealth = 
random.randint(1, 20) + 7 # Expertise print(f"\nKessa 
Stealth: {kessa_stealth}") if kessa_stealth >= 20: 
print("\n>>> PERFECT STEALTH!") print("Kessa is a ghost") 
kessa_success = "perfect" elif kessa_stealth >= 15: 
print("\n>>> EXCELLENT STEALTH") print("Kessa avoids all 
patrols") kessa_success = "excellent" else:
Kressa doesn't need to hide, she's with Madreus. An assistant or something.
Nov 30
ADJUSTED PLAN
Right! Kessa doesn't need to sneak - she's walking with Madreus as his 
assistant or associate. Much simpler.
Revised escape plan with Kessa as Madreus's companion
 
THE JOURNEY OUT
ENCOUNTER 1: THE GRAND PROMENADE
First encounter during escape
 
COMPLICATION
The guard isn't backing down. "I'm just doing my job. Let me send a runner to 
Wellfast's quarters to confirm-"
Kessa steps in smoothly. "Actually, that's perfect timing. We were just heading 
back there anyway. Come with us and ask him yourself."
The guard hesitates. Going to disturb Wellfast personally when he's 
supposedly conducting "sensitive business" could get him in trouble...
Guard's decision about verifying with Wellfast
 
UNEXPECTED PROBLEM
The stubborn guard is actually following Madreus and Kessa back toward 
Wellfast's quarters. In about five minutes, he'll discover the body and raise the 
alarm.
You're invisible, carrying the armor, following about 20 feet behind. The guard 
doesn't know you're there.
Quick decision needed! What do you do?
Option 1: Let Madreus/Kessa handle it
*        They lead him on a meandering route, stalling
*        Eventually lose him or find an excuse
*        Risk: Time pressure, might fail
Option 2: You intervene (invisible)
*        Knock the guard out from behind while invisible
*        Quick and direct
*        Risk: Breaking concentration, making noise, being discovered
Option 3: Create a distraction
*        You (or Madreus) cause something to happen elsewhere
*        Guard gets called away
*        Risk: Depends on execution
Option 4: Something creative?
You have maybe 30 seconds to decide before they're too far ahead. What's 
your move?
Let them handle it.
Nov 30
TRUSTING YOUR ALLIES
You decide to let Madreus and Kessa handle this. They're both clever - they'll 
figure something out. You continue following invisibly, ready to intervene if 
needed.
Madreus and Kessa's attempt to lose the guard
 
THE GUARD ISN'T FOOLED
Kessa's fake injury doesn't sell. The guard crosses his arms. "She looks fine to 
me. Let's keep moving."
They're running out of time. The guard is still following them, and they're 
getting closer to Wellfast's quarters where the body is.
You're still invisible, 20 feet behind, carrying the armor. You need to make a 
decision now.
Critical decision point for Johannes
Kessa catches your eye - she can't see you, but she knows you're there 
somewhere. She mouths: Your call.
What do you do?
1.        Knock out the guard (invisible surprise attack)
2.        Trust one more attempt (Madreus/Kessa try again)
3.        Create a distraction (spell or noise elsewhere)
4.        Something else?
Decision time!
If we're near Wellfasts quarters, minor illusion of Wellfast shouting to be left 
alone.
Nov 30
BRILLIANT SOLUTION
Perfect! You're close enough to Wellfast's quarters that you can make this 
work.
You carefully set down the armor for a moment, focus your concentration, and 
cast Minor Illusion - creating the sound of Wellfast's gruff voice bellowing 
from inside his quarters.
Minor Illusion to fake Wellfast's voice
 
PERFECT EXECUTION
The illusion works flawlessly. Wellfast's angry roar echoes through the 
corridor, followed by the sound of something heavy being thrown against a 
wall.
The guard goes pale. "Commander's... really not in a good mood."
Madreus crosses his arms. "As I've been trying to tell you. Now do you 
understand why I said no interruptions?"
The guard is already backing away. "Yes. Absolutely. My apologies. I'll... I'll 
just get back to my post."
He practically runs away.
Kessa lets out a breath once he's gone. She can't see you, but she whispers: 
"Johannes? That was you, wasn't it? Brilliant."
You pick up the armor again and continue following them, still invisible.
 
ENCOUNTER 2: APPROACHING THE UPPER LEVELS
Second encounter at upper checkpoint
 
FINAL OBSTACLE
Three Duergar guards are at the checkpoint, being unusually thorough. 
They're checking papers, asking questions, even searching some people's bags.
Not good.
Madreus and Kessa approach confidently, but you can see the tension in their 
shoulders.
Navigating the thorough checkpoint
 
CRITICAL MOMENT
Madreus fumbled it - he's too nervous after twenty-seven years of isolation. 
The guards are suspicious now.
"Both of you, step aside for a full search," the Captain orders.
Kessa shoots a glance in your direction - she can't see you, but she's 
signaling: Do something or slip past now.
The guards are distracted with Madreus and Kessa. You could potentially slip 
past while they're focused on the search. Or you could intervene somehow.
What do you do?
1.        Slip past while they're distracted (Stealth check, they're focused 
elsewhere)
2.        Create another distraction (Minor Illusion elsewhere to pull guards 
away)
3.        Have Kessa cause a scene (Give you cover to slip through)
4.        Something else?
Quick decision - what's your play?
Slip past
Nov 30
SLIP THROUGH UNNOTICED
While the guards focus on Madreus and Kessa, you carefully navigate around 
them, hugging the wall with the heavy armor in your arms.
Johannes slipping past the checkpoint invisibly
 
PAST THE CHECKPOINT!
You slip past like a ghost. The guards never notice you. You're through!
Behind you, the guards finish searching Madreus and Kessa's packs. They find 
some coins and supplies, but nothing that screams "we just robbed and killed 
your commander."
The Captain waves them through impatiently. "Move along. You're holding up 
the line."
Madreus and Kessa walk through the checkpoint, trying not to look too 
relieved.
 
THE CRYSTAL GATES - FREEDOM AHEAD
Escaping through the crystal gates
 
FREEDOM
You walk down the mountain path, putting distance between yourselves and 
Firestorm Peak. Once you're a safe distance away - maybe half a mile - you let 
your Invisibility drop.
You appear, standing there with the Dwarven Plate armor in your arms, 
grinning.
Kessa laughs. "We actually did it. We destroyed the gate, saved Madreus, 
robbed Wellfast blind, and walked out the front door."
Madreus is sitting on a rock, staring at the sky with wonder. "Twenty-seven 
years. Twenty-seven years trapped in darkness. And now... sun. Wind. 
Freedom."
He looks at both of you. "I owe you my life. Both of you."
Final mission summary and loot tally
 
EPILOGUE - DIVIDING THE SPOILS
You make camp a few miles from the mountain, in a safe clearing. Madreus 
can't stop smiling, even as he helps organize the loot.
"So," Kessa says, spreading everything out. "How do we split this?"
You consider. You have:
*        The two artifacts for your patron (non-negotiable - they're your contract 
obligation)
*        About 11,000-14,000 gp worth of other loot
*        A freed wizard who's been imprisoned for 27 years
"The artifacts are mine," you say. "For my patron. Everything else... we 
discuss."
Madreus speaks up. "I have no claim to anything. You saved my life. Whatever 
you give me is generosity."
Kessa shakes her head. "You helped us escape. You're a skilled wizard. You 
deserve a share."
How do you want to split the remaining loot?
*        Equal three-way split?
*        Keep most of it (you and Kessa did the heavy lifting)?
*        Give Madreus a generous portion (he has nothing after 27 years)?
*        Something else?
And then: What do you do next?
This has been an incredible session! What do you think?
60/40 split and head home and he takes the armor
Nov 30
FAIR DIVISION
"Here's what I'm thinking," you say. "Kessa and I split 60% of the loot between 
us - 30% each. Madreus, you get 40% plus the Dwarven Plate armor. You've 
got nothing after twenty-seven years. You need a fresh start."
Madreus looks stunned. "That's... that's incredibly generous."
Kessa nods. "Works for me. We got what we came for and then some."
Dividing the loot fairly
 
THE PARTING
The loot is divided fairly. Madreus straps on the Dwarven Plate armor - it's 
heavy, but he's a free man now and it's worth a fortune.
"Where will you go?" you ask him.
"Home," he says simply. "Or what's left of it. My wife... my daughter... they 
probably think I'm dead. But I have to try."
He clasps your hand firmly. "Johannes. Kessa. I will never forget what you did 
for me. If you ever need a powerful wizard's aid, you need only ask. I am 
forever in your debt."
Kessa hu
Not plus
Nov 30
CORRECTED SPLIT
Right - the artifacts aren't in addition to your 30%, they are part of your 
payment.
Corrected loot split where artifacts count as Johannes's share
 
FINAL DIVISION
You work it out fairly:
JOHANNES: The two Elder Elf artifacts (going to your patron as tribute) + 1 
healing potion
KESSA: 2,500 gold + Crystal Cleaver + Crystal Shards + 2 healing potions
MADREUS: 3,000 gold + Dwarven Plate Armor + Elder Elf Tablet + 2 
healing potions
Everyone nods. It's fair. Madreus gets the most actual portable wealth since 
he's starting from nothing. Kessa gets a legendary magical weapon and serious 
cash. You get the artifacts your patron demanded.
 
PARTING WAYS
Madreus adjusts the Dwarven Plate armor on his shoulders. "Where will you 
go?" you ask.
"Home," he says quietly. "To find what's left of my family. My wife, my 
daughter... they probably think I'm dead. But I have to try. And if they're 
gone..." He touches the coin purse. "I can rebuild. Thanks to you."
He clasps your hand. "Johannes. Kessa. I owe you my life. If you ever need a 
powerful wizard's aid, send word. I am forever in your debt."
Kessa grins. "Try not to get trapped in any more mountains."
"Never again," he laughs. Then he heads south, toward civilization and home.
 
HEADING HOME
You and Kessa travel together back toward town. You have the artifacts for 
your patron, and you need to present them soon.
"So," Kessa says as you walk. "That was one hell of an adventure. Destroyed an 
ancient gate, saved the world from Far Realm horrors, freed a wizard, robbed 
a Duergar commander, and walked out rich."
She looks at the Crystal Cleaver strapped to her back. "Not bad for a few days' 
work."
"Not bad at all," you agree.
But in the back of your mind, you feel your patron's presence. Waiting. 
Hungry for the tribute you've brought.
Soon you'll need to present the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key. The fiend will 
be furious you didn't open the gate... but bound by contract to accept the 
artifacts as payment.
That confrontation is coming.
But for now? You're alive, you're wealthy, and you just pulled off the heist of a 
lifetime.
 
END OF SESSION
What an incredible adventure! You:
*        Prevented a Far Realm invasion
*        Outsmarted your fiend patron
*        Saved an innocent man
*        Pulled off an epic heist
*        Walked away rich
Fantastic session! How did you enjoy it?
Not plus the armor, I meant.
Nov 30
FINAL CORRECTION
Ah! You mean Madreus gets 40% of everything, and the armor is part of that 
40%, not in addition to it.
Final split where armor is part of Madreus's 40%
 
SETTLED
Perfect. The split is fair:
*        You: The two artifacts for your patron, 550 gold, and a healing potion
*        Kessa: The legendary Crystal Cleaver, 1,600 gold, crystal shards, and 2 
potions
*        Madreus: The valuable Dwarven Plate (which counts as most of his 
share), 900 gold to restart his life, the Elder Elf Tablet, 2 potions, and 
the maps
Everyone agrees it's fair. Madreus gets the armor as the cornerstone of his 
40% share - it's worth 2,000 gold and gives him protection as he rebuilds his 
life.
 
PARTING WAYS
Madreus straps on the armor - it's heavy but valuable. "This will keep me safe 
on the road home. And if I need to sell it..." He trails off, but you understand. 
It's his safety net.
"Thank you both," he says earnestly. "For everything. My freedom, my life... I 
will never forget this."
He heads south toward his old home.
You and Kessa turn toward town, weighted down with gold and glory.
"One hell of an adventure," Kessa says, grinning.
Indeed it was.
 
END OF SESSION
Fantastic adventure! You achieved everything:
*        ? Stopped a Far Realm invasion
*        ? Outsmarted your patron (gave tribute without opening the gate)
*        ? Saved Madreus from 27 years of imprisonment
*        ? Pulled off an epic heist
*        ? Everyone survived and got rich
How did you enjoy the session? That was an incredible run!
There was also a fancy crossbow we should have grabbed
Nov 30
WAIT - THE FANCY CROSSBOW!
You're absolutely right! Back in Wellfast's quarters, there was that ornate 
crossbow on display that we noted during the initial search. Let me check what 
we found:
Checking for missed crossbow loot
 
UPDATED LOOT - WITH CROSSBOW
Yes! There was definitely a fancy crossbow in Wellfast's collection. Let's add it 
to the haul:
Revised loot split including the fancy crossbow
 
PERFECT!
Much better! Kessa now has:
*        Crystal Cleaver +2 (legendary battle axe for when she needs melee)
*        Hand Crossbow +1 (upgrade to her signature weapon!)
*        550 gold cash
*        Crystal shards
*        2 healing potions
"Oh, this is gorgeous," Kessa says, admiring the ornate crossbow. It's 
beautifully crafted with intricate engravings. "+1 to hit and damage. This will 
serve me well."
Everyone gets a bit more cash too, and Madreus has a solid 1,500 gold to 
restart his life along with the armor.
FINAL TALLY:
*        ~25,000 gold pieces worth of loot total
*        Two Elder Elf artifacts for your patron (contract fulfilled)
*        Saved the world
*        Freed an innocent man
*        Everyone walks away rich and equipped
NOW it's perfect! Anything else you want to adjust or shall we call this 
legendary heist complete?
Please review the rest of the previous chats. There was other loot and magic 
items we collected, like a ring?
Nov 30
COMPREHENSIVE LOOT REVIEW
You're absolutely right - let me search through our entire adventure to find 
ALL the loot we collected!
Auditing all loot collected during adventure
Let me search our past conversations for any ring or other items I might have 
missed:
Relevant chats
1 result
FOUND IT!
Yes! There was a Silver Ring with Elvish Runes (magical, unidentified) 
that we found in the giant scorpion encounter! Plus the search results show 
there was potentially a Ring of Protection +1 in Wellfast's quarters if we 
rolled well enough.
Let me compile the COMPLETE loot list:
Complete loot audit including the ring
WOW - EVEN RICHER THAN WE THOUGHT!
You're absolutely right! We collected WAY more loot than I was tracking. With 
the Silver Ring, scorpion venom, chitin plates, scroll, and all the other 
items, you're looking at nearly 28,000 gold pieces worth of treasure!
Let me redistribute this properly with the 60/40 split:
Final complete loot distribution
MUCH BETTER!
Thank you for catching that! The complete haul is:
JOHANNES:
*        Sapphire Rod & Emerald Key (for patron)
*        Silver Ring (magical, needs identifying!)
Nope. What Madreus got is more than enough.
Nov 30
UNDERSTOOD - MADREUS KEEPS HIS SHARE
You're right - Madreus already has his 40% worked out and it's very generous 
for someone who helped guide you out. Let's redistribute the extra items (ring, 
venom, chitin, scroll, etc.) between you and Kessa:
Final split keeping Madreus's share fixed
PERFECT - FINAL SPLIT:
MADREUS (40% - settled):
*        Dwarven Plate Armor
*        1,500gp cash
*        Elder Elf Tablet
*        2 Greater Healing Potions
*        Maps
JOHANNES:
*        Sapphire Rod & Emerald Key (for patron)
*        Silver Ring (magical, unidentified!)
*        Scroll of Misty Step
*        1,500gp cash
*        2 Greater Healing Potions
*        1 Healing Potion
KESSA:
*        Crystal Cleaver +2
*        Hand Crossbow +1
*        1,500gp cash + Crystal Shards
*        3 Greater Healing Potions + 1 Healing Potion
*        2 Scorpion Venom doses
*        Chitin Plates
*        Alchemical components
Everyone walks away very well equipped! And you have that 
mysterious Silver Ring with Elvish Runes that still needs identifying - 
could be anything!
Is this the final distribution you're happy with?
Perfect! And let's call it a session!
Nov 30
SESSION COMPLETE!
What an absolutely LEGENDARY session! Let's recap what you accomplished:
?? MAJOR ACHIEVEMENTS:
*        ? Destroyed the Vast Gate (prevented Far Realm invasion)
*        ? Outsmarted your fiend patron (gave tribute WITHOUT opening the 
gate)
*        ? Freed Madreus from 27 years of imprisonment
*        ? Killed Wellfast (eliminated the threat)
*        ? Pulled off an incredible heist of his quarters
*        ? Escaped Firestorm Peak completely undetected
?? FINAL LOOT (Your Share):
*        Sapphire Rod & Emerald Key (for patron - contract satisfied!)
*        Silver Ring with Elvish Runes (magical, unidentified - mystery!)
*        Scroll of Misty Step
*        1,500 gold pieces
*        2 Greater Healing Potions
*        1 Healing Potion
?? HIGHLIGHTS:
*        Epic guardian battle in the Vast Gate chamber
*        Brilliant prisoner ruse to ambush Wellfast
*        Perfect use of Minor Illusion to fake Wellfast's voice
*        Confident escape walking right past the guards with invisibility
*        60/40 split that set everyone up for success
?? STORY IMPACT:
*        Saved the world from the Triad of Unmaking
*        Freed an innocent wizard after decades of suffering
*        Your patron is furious but bound by contract
*        Madreus can finally go home
*        You're significantly richer and better equipped
This was an AMAZING one-on-one D&D session! The combat, the heist, the 
moral choices, the clever problem-solving - all of it was fantastic.
Thanks for an incredible adventure! ???
So Johannes and Kressa return successfully to town and are able to sell all 
their loot. Is there anyone there who could identify the nature of the ring 
Johannes found?
Dec 1
RETURN TO TOWN - IDENTIFYING THE RING
After several days of travel, you and Kessa make it back to civilization. You sell 
off the crystal shards, alchemical components, and other miscellaneous 
valuables, converting everything to cold hard cash.
Now you need someone who can identify that mysterious Silver Ring with 
Elvish Runes.
Options for identifying the magical ring
OPTIONS FOR IDENTIFICATION:
You have several choices for getting the ring identified:
1.        Temple - Trustworthy, moderate cost (25-50 gp)
2.        Wizard's Guild - Professional, expensive (50-100 gp)
3.        Local Sage - Scholarly, moderate cost (30-75 gp)
4.        Shady Shop - Cheap but risky (10-20 gp)
5.        Kessa's Contact - Discreet antiquarian, fair price
Kessa suggests her contact - an antiquities dealer who specializes in Elder Elf 
artifacts and won't ask uncomfortable questions about where you got a ring 
from inside Firestorm Peak.
Where do you want to take the Silver Ring for identification?
Kressa's contact.
Dec 1
THE ANTIQUARIAN
Kessa leads you through the merchant district to a narrow shop wedged 
between a cobbler and a bookbinder. The sign reads "Curiosities & Antiquities 
- Proprietor: Aldric Venn."
Inside, the shop is crammed with shelves of odd artifacts, old books, strange 
sculptures, and glittering oddments. An elderly half-elf with silver hair and 
spectacles looks up from examining a piece of pottery.
"Kessa! My dear, it's been months." He sets down the pottery carefully. "What 
treasures have you brought me today?"
Kessa grins. "Aldric, this is Johannes. We've got something interesting - Elder 
Elf, we think. Silver ring with runes. Found it in... well, you don't need to know 
where."
Aldric chuckles. "I never do." He extends a hand. "Let's have a look."
Identifying the silver ring at Aldric's shop
 
RING OF FEATHER FALLING!
Aldric smiles. "A Ring of Feather Falling. Elder Elf craftsmanship. When 
worn, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falls of any 
distance. Quite handy for someone who explores dangerous ruins."
He glances at Kessa knowingly. "Or climbs mountains."
You pay the 35 gold pieces - a fair price for the service. The ring is yours to 
keep.
JOHANNES'S FINAL INVENTORY:
*        Sapphire Rod & Emerald Key (to present to patron)
*        Ring of Feather Falling (equipped!)
*        Scroll of Misty Step
*        1,465 gp cash (1,500 - 35 for identification)
*        2 Greater Healing Potions
*        1 Healing Potion
 
WHAT'S NEXT?
Kessa looks at you seriously. "So... when are you presenting those artifacts to 
your patron? That's not a conversation I envy you having."
She's right. You have the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key - two of the three 
components needed to open the Vast Gate. Your fiend patron demanded you 
bring back artifacts from Firestorm Peak. Technically, you've fulfilled the 
contract.
But your patron wanted you to OPEN the gate and bring back something from 
the Far Realm. You destroyed the gate instead.
This confrontation is coming.
Do you want to:
1.        Handle the patron confrontation now? (could be intense)
2.        Take some downtime first? (rest, recover, prepare)
3.        End session here and save patron meeting for next time?
What do you think?
Deliver the artifacts.
Dec 1
SUMMONING YOUR PATRON
You find a private place - an abandoned warehouse on the edge of town where 
you won't be disturbed or observed. Kessa offers to come with you, but you 
shake your head.
"This is between me and the demon," you say quietly.
She nods, understanding. "Good luck. And Johannes? Don't let it push you 
around. You fulfilled the contract."
 
You enter the empty warehouse, close the door, and draw out the Sapphire 
Rod and Emerald Key. They pulse with otherworldly energy in your hands.
You speak the words of summoning. The air grows cold. Shadows deepen 
impossibly in the corners of the room.
And your patron appears.
Patron confrontation begins
 
THE CONFRONTATION
The demon towers over you, flames licking at its form. The warehouse groans 
under the pressure of its presence.
Its burning eyes bore into you, waiting for your answer.
You destroyed the Vast Gate - prevented a catastrophe that would have let Far 
Realm horrors into your world. But in doing so, you defied your patron's clear 
desire for you to open it.
Now comes the moment of truth.
How do you respond to your patron's accusation?
Some options to consider:
*        Legalistic: "The contract specified artifacts from Firestorm Peak. I 
have delivered two Elder Elf artifacts as tribute."
*        Defiant: "I destroyed it because opening it would have been 
catastrophic. I won't be responsible for unleashing the Far Realm."
*        Pragmatic: "The gate was too dangerous. These artifacts are more 
valuable intact than whatever chaos would have come through."
*        Honest: "Yes. I destroyed it. And I'd do it again."
*        Something else entirely?
What do you say to the demon?
Insight check?
Dec 1
INSIGHT CHECK - READING YOUR PATRON
Smart move. Let's see if you can gauge the demon's true state - is it genuinely 
furious, or is this posturing? What are its actual options here?
Insight check to read the demon's position
 
SOLID READ
You study the demon carefully. The flames, the rage, the towering presence - 
it's all very impressive. And yes, it IS genuinely angry.
But you notice something crucial:
It hasn't attacked you.
A fiend this powerful, this enraged, could strike you down in an instant if it 
wanted to. But it hasn't. It's talking. It's questioning.
Because it's bound by the contract.
You agreed to "retrieve powerful artifacts from Firestorm Peak and present 
them as tribute." You're standing here with the Sapphire Rod and Emerald 
Key - two incredibly powerful Elder Elf artifacts.
The contract is fulfilled.
The demon wanted MORE - it wanted the gate opened, wanted access to 
whatever lay beyond. But that wasn't in the letter of your agreement. This 
rage? It's genuine, but it's also intimidation. The demon is trying to cow you 
into submission for future dealings.
If you show weakness now, you'll never have the upper hand again.
You hold the stronger position here.
 
Armed with this knowledge, how do you respond to the demon's 
accusation?
You can stand firm knowing the contract protects you.
Defiant
Dec 1
DEFIANT STAND
You meet the demon's burning gaze without flinching. The heat is intense, but 
you don't step back.
"Yes," you say clearly. "I destroyed it. And I would do it again."
The warehouse shudders. Flames flare around the demon's form.
"The Vast Gate was a doorway to the Far Realm. Opening it would have 
unleashed horrors that would have consumed everything - including whatever 
plans YOU have for this world. I won't be the instrument of apocalypse."
You hold up the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key.
"Our contract specified that I retrieve powerful artifacts from Firestorm Peak 
and present them as tribute. Here they are. Two Elder Elf relics of immense 
power. The contract is fulfilled."
The demon's response to Johannes's defiance
 
THE DEMON WAITS
Its clawed hand is extended. The Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key pulse with 
energy in your hands.
This is it. Once you hand them over, the contract is complete. Your phantom 
company is safe for another year. The curse that kills those around you is 
satisfied.
But the demon has made its position clear: future contracts will be more 
restrictive, more specific, designed to corner you into actions that violate your 
principles.
The question is whether you say anything before completing this transaction.
What do you do?
1.        Hand over the artifacts silently (complete the deal, end the 
confrontation)
2.        Speak first (what would you say?)
3.        Ask a question (about the curse, the contract, breaking free?)
4.        Something else?
Your call.
ASk the demon what it hoped to gain from opening the gate.
Dec 1
THE QUESTION
You hold the artifacts but don't hand them over yet. Instead, you meet the 
demon's burning gaze.
"What did you hope to gain from opening the gate?" you ask. "Why did you 
want a passage to the Far Realm opened?"
The demon's eyes narrow. Flames flicker around its form.
The demon's explanation of its motives
 
THE DEMON REFUSES
The demon won't reveal its true purposes. Whatever it wanted from an opened 
gate to the Far Realm, it's keeping that secret.
But the fact that it won't tell you is telling in itself. The plan was significant. 
Personal. Something it doesn't want you knowing about.
"Some knowledge is too dangerous," it says mockingly. "Now. The artifacts."
Its clawed hand extends, waiting.
The Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key pulse in your grip. This is the moment of 
transaction. Once you hand them over:
*        The contract is fulfilled
*        Your phantom company is safe for another year
*        The curse is satisfied
*        But the demon will be more careful with future contracts
Do you:
1.        Hand over the artifacts (complete the deal)
2.        Ask something else first (what?)
3.        Make a statement (final words before the transaction?)
What do you do?
1
Dec 1
THE TRANSACTION
You step forward and place the Sapphire Rod and Emerald Key into the 
demon's clawed hand.
Completing the contract with the patron
 
AFTERMATH
You step out of the warehouse into the evening air. The weight you've carried 
for so long feels lighter - not gone, but manageable. For one year, at least.
Kessa is waiting nearby, leaning against a wall. She straightens when she sees 
you.
"Well?" she asks. "Still alive. That's a good sign."
"Contract fulfilled," you say. "The curse is satisfied for another year."
She grins with relief. "Then I'd say this calls for a drink. We just pulled off the 
heist of the century, saved the world, and you survived a meeting with your 
demon patron. That's worth celebrating."
 
CAMPAIGN STATUS UPDATE:
? Firestorm Peak Adventure: COMPLETE
*        Vast Gate destroyed
*        Madreus freed
*        Patron satisfied (for now)
*        Major loot acquired
?? JOHANNES'S STATUS:
*        Level: 5 Warlock
*        HP: 39/39 (full)
*        Curse: Satisfied for 1 year
*        Gold: 1,465 gp
*        Magic Items: Ring of Feather Falling, Scroll of Misty Step
*        Potions: 2 Greater Healing, 1 Healing
?? STORY THREADS:
*        Patron's cryptic hint about "loopholes" in your curse
*        Madreus seeking his family
*        Kessa's ongoing partnership
*        One year until next tribute is due
 
PERFECT ENDING POINT!
What an incredible adventure! You accomplished everything, stood up to your 
patron, and opened an intriguing story thread about potentially breaking your 
curse.
Want to call it here, or is there anything else you'd like to do before we close 
this session?
For me, the session ended last night, but I was looking for a way to move 
forward. I have added several adventures to the knowledge base. Select one at 
random that Johannes and Kressa can begin after about 2 weeks of in-game 
downtime.
Dec 1
PERFECT - DOWNTIME AND NEW ADVENTURE
Let me search the knowledge base for the adventures you've added:
Searched project for "adventure module campaign"
6 results
Great! I can see several classic adventures in the knowledge base. Let me 
randomly select one:
Randomly selecting next adventure
 
NEXT ADVENTURE: DRAGONS OF DESPAIR!
Perfect! The dice have spoken. After two weeks of downtime in town, 
Johannes and Kessa will embark on Dragons of Despair (DL1), the first 
module in the classic Dragonlance saga!
TWO WEEKS OF DOWNTIME:
*        Johannes rests, identifies his ring, and presents tribute to his patron
*        Kessa spends time with her contacts, enjoys her new magical weapons
*        Both recover fully from their injuries
*        They hear rumors of strange events in distant lands...
THE HOOK:
One evening at the tavern, a traveling merchant shares disturbing news: 
"Dragons. I know it sounds mad, but people are talking about dragons 
returning. Not just tales - actual sightings. And there's word of a strange 
religious order spreading through the land, worshipping these 
'Dragonlords'..."
Kessa catches your eye. After what you just faced at Firestorm Peak - Far 
Realm horrors, ancient gates, imprisoned wizards - the idea of dragons 
returning doesn't seem so far-fetched.
"Could be worth investigating," she says quietly. "If it's real, that's... big."
And so your next adventure begins...
 
Ready to start Dragons of Despair when you're ready for the next 
session? I'll adapt it for your one-on-one campaign with Johannes and 
Kessa!
Yes, let's go. However, I would like to do some shopping for Johannes and 
Kressa with her contacts before we jump off.
Dec 1
SHOPPING WITH KESSA'S CONTACTS
"Before we chase dragon rumors halfway across the world," Kessa says, "let's 
spend some of that hard-earned gold properly. I know people who can get us 
better equipment than what's available in the regular markets."
She leads you through the city to the merchant district, then down a side alley 
to a nondescript building. Inside, it's a well-stocked trader's warehouse - 
clearly a place where adventurers and those in "the trade" do business.
An older woman with sharp eyes looks up. "Kessa! I heard you were back. And 
with gold to spend, I hope?"
"Always, Mara. This is Johannes. We need to gear up for a long journey."
Shopping options at Mara's Trading Post
 
SHOPPING TIME!
Mara's shop is well-stocked with both mundane and magical goods. You and 
Kessa browse the shelves.
CURRENT INVENTORY REMINDER:
Johannes has:
*        Ring of Feather Falling (equipped)
*        Scroll of Misty Step
*        1,465 gp
*        2 Greater Healing Potions
*        1 Healing Potion
Kessa has:
*        Crystal Cleaver +2
*        Hand Crossbow +1
*        1,950 gp (including crystal shards)
*        3 Greater Healing Potions
*        1 Healing Potion
*        2 Scorpion Venom doses
*        Chitin Plates
What would you like to purchase for each of them?
Some suggestions to consider:
*        Cloak of Protection would boost Johannes's AC from 15 to 16
*        Bag of Holding for carrying capacity
*        Extra potions for a long journey
*        Adventuring gear like rope, tools, etc.
*        Boots of Striding and Springing for mobility
What catches your eye?
What is the cost for the 3 magic items you mentioned? Also, what do I need to 
do to be able to equip the ring?
Dec 1
MAGIC ITEM COSTS & RING ATTUNEMENT
Magic item costs and attunement explanation
 
THE COSTS & ATTUNEMENT
Magic Item Costs:
*        Cloak of Protection +1: 1,500 gp (requires attunement)
*        Bag of Holding: 2,000 gp (no attunement needed)
*        Boots of Striding and Springing: 1,200 gp (requires attunement)
Total if buying all three: 4,700 gp
Your combined funds: 3,415 gp (not quite enough for all three)
 
ATTUNEMENT:
The Ring of Feather Falling requires attunement, which is simple:
*        Wear the ring during a short rest (1 hour)
*        Focus on its magic during that time
*        After the rest, you're attuned and it works automatically
Attunement Slots:
*        You can attune to 3 magic items maximum
*        Currently you have 0/3 slots used
*        Ring would be 1/3
*        Cloak would be 2/3
*        Boots would be 3/3
 
SHOPPING OPTIONS:
You could afford:
1.        Cloak of Protection (1,500 gp) - Leaves you with ~1,915 gp 
combined
2.        Bag of Holding (2,000 gp) - Leaves you with ~1,415 gp combined
3.        Boots of Striding (1,200 gp) - Leaves you with ~2,215 gp combined
4.        Two of the three - Various combinations
5.        Something else entirely from Mara's stock
6.        Mix of items - Maybe one big purchase + potions/gear?
What would you like to buy for Johannes and Kessa?
Let's go with the Cloak and the Bag, along with a new rapier for Kressa and 
any other items she wants. Let's sell the Crystal Cleaver (since neither of us 
would use it...) and see where that leaves us.
Dec 1
SELLING THE CLEAVER & MAKING PURCHASES
"Actually, Mara," Kessa says, pulling out the Crystal Cleaver. "We also have 
this to sell. Neither of us really use melee weapons much."
Mara's eyes widen as she examines the magnificent battle axe +2. "Now THIS 
is a weapon. Elder Elf craftsmanship... I can offer you 4,000 gold for it. That's 
a fair price - I'll have to find the right buyer for something this specialized."
Calculating sales and purchases
 
KESSA'S SHOPPING PLAN
Mara counts out 4,000 gold pieces for the Crystal Cleaver, adding it to your 
funds.
Kessa picks up a well-balanced rapier, testing its weight. "Much better for my 
style." Then she starts gathering supplies:
Her recommended purchases:
*        More healing potions (we'll need them)
*        Alchemist's fire & acid (useful against tough enemies)
*        Antitoxin (after those scorpions, always good to have)
*        Adventuring gear (rope, climbing kit, lantern, oil)
*        +1 magical bolts (5 shots for tough enemies)
"That's 1,020 gold total for supplies, leaving us with 2,870 gold for the road - 
split evenly, about 1,435 each. We'll be well-prepared for whatever comes."
She looks at you. "Sound good? Or do you want to adjust anything?"
PROPOSED FINAL INVENTORY:
JOHANNES:
*        Cloak of Protection +1 (NEW - needs attunement)
*        Ring of Feather Falling (needs attunement)
*        Scroll of Misty Step
*        1,435 gp cash
*        2 Greater Healing, 1 Healing, 2 new Healing Potions
*        Share of gear (antitoxin, healer's kit, etc.)
KESSA:
*        Hand Crossbow +1 with 5 magical +1 bolts
*        Rapier (NEW)
*        1,435 gp cash
*        3 Greater Healing, 1 Healing, 2 new Healing Potions
*        2 Scorpion Venom doses
*        Share of gear (alchemist's fire, acid, etc.)
PARTY (in Bag of Holding):
*        Climbing kit, rope, grappling hooks
*        Lantern, oil
*        Healer's kits
*        Chitin plates
Accept Kessa's plan?
Let's also sell the chitin plates, and I think we're good. Side question - is 
Johannes wearing optimal mundane armor at this point for a warlock? What 
about Kressa?
Dec 1
SELLING CHITIN & ARMOR CHECK
Selling chitin and checking armor optimization
 
ARMOR UPGRADE NEEDED!
"Actually," Mara says, looking at your current armor, "you're both still wearing 
basic leather. For adventurers of your caliber, you should upgrade to studded 
leather - it's the best light armor available and you're already proficient with 
it."
She pulls two sets off the rack. "Twenty gold each. Worth every copper."
ARMOR COMPARISON:
Current Setup:
*        Johannes: Leather (AC 12) ? AC 13 with Cloak
*        Kessa: Leather (AC 13)
With Studded Leather:
*        Johannes: Studded Leather (AC 13) ? AC 14 with Cloak
*        Kessa: Studded Leather (AC 14)
Both get +1 AC for just 40 gold total - definitely worth it!
 
FINAL SHOPPING LIST:
SOLD:
*        Crystal Cleaver +2: +4,000 gp
*        Chitin Plates: +150 gp
PURCHASED:
*        Cloak of Protection +1: 1,500 gp
*        Bag of Holding: 2,000 gp
*        Rapier: 25 gp
*        2x Studded Leather Armor: 40 gp
*        Potions & supplies: 1,020 gp
*        Total spent: 4,585 gp
FINAL GOLD:
*        Each character: 1,490 gp
Final ACs:
*        Johannes: AC 14 (with Cloak of Protection)
*        Kessa: AC 14
Accept this final shopping list and proceed to Dragons of Despair?
Yes. Let's begin...
Dec 1
SHOPPING COMPLETE - THE JOURNEY BEGINS
Final inventory before Dragons of Despair
Actually, could you generate a brief summary so I can begin the new 
adventure in a new chat?
Dec 1
SESSION SUMMARY FOR NEW CHAT
Creating adventure summary document
 
PERFECT! HERE'S YOUR SUMMARY
I've created a complete summary above that you can copy/paste into your new 
chat to begin Dragons of Despair. It includes:
? Full character stats (HP, AC, equipment, gold, potions) ? Recent 
events (Firestorm Peak completion) ? Current situation (ready to 
investigate dragon rumors) ? Story threads to remember ? Next 
adventure details
 
TO START YOUR NEW CHAT:
Simply copy the summary above and begin your new conversation with:
"I'd like to continue my one-on-one D&D campaign. Here's where we left off: 
[paste summary]. Let's begin Dragons of Despair!"
 
This was an AMAZING session! You:
*        ? Completed Firestorm Peak
*        ? Confronted your demon patron successfully
*        ? Optimized your equipment
*        ? Set up the next adventure perfectly
Ready to face dragons! ??
Good luck with Dragons of Despair, and may the dice be in your favor! ??