Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09342 D& D Quest For The Silver Sword"
See other formats
Quest for 
the Silver Sword 

by William W. Connors 


f f 1 


^ Vj v. vfl0BAL 


sJ.^. tavo V" 

gfij* k M- 

i£§mi 

'¦Mi ;• Jv 

MJUl H ml 

My m mLj 




AJ-tjjs 





























Rftoom 9: Antechamber 


Room 2: Sitting Room 


Room 12: Ballroom 


Room 11: Wine Cellar 


Room 10: Larder 


Room 8: Tomb 


This room Is empty and cold A long, 
narrow crack In one wall allows the frigid 
wind to break Into the keep here The 
floor, walls, and ceiling are lined with frost, 
and every breath you exhale curls away 
from your face In a rolling cloud of fog 


The first thing you notice in this room is 
the ornate wooden rack secured to one 
wall. An assortment of cracked wine bot 
tles litters its many compartments, and 
the floor is covered wtth shards of broken 
glass As you look around, a dozen or so 
rats vanish into the cracks In the walls with 
squeals of protest at your Intrusion. 


This area was once a comfortable and 
well-appointed sitting room where visitors 
to the keep could exchange light conver 
sation with the master of the house Two 
chairs and a small couch are here, each 
upholstered in a tasteful auburn fabric A 
small wooden table, perhaps once used 
for refreshments, is also present Time 
has been kind to this room, for much of 
the furniture here seems to be in fair con 
dition. There is, however, a sharp, bitter 
odor in the air-an odor that reminds you 
of a smoldering fire or a recently blown- 
out match. 

One object in this room stands out from 
the rest: on the table is an old. yellowed 
skull The top of the skull is gone and a 
stubby candle now sits within-just as if 
the skull was a jack-o'-lantern. 


This room, once an elegant ballroom, is 
now filled with garbage and debris. Two 
exquisite chandeliers still hang from the 
ceiling, but they are the only trace of digni 
ty left. The air is thick with the foul odor of 
rotting food Despite the chill air, insects 
buzz to and fro-bloated from their feast 
of filth The floor is slick with slime and 
rats scurry amid the piles of refuse. 


This area is dominated by a large stor 
age rack that runs the entire length of the 
room Smoked meats and preserved 
foods are stacked haphazardly on the 
shelves, many showing signs of mold and 
rot Although the cold seems lo have kept 
flies and the like from infesting the area, 
small beetles and centipedes crawl on the 
foodstuff 

A pair of stout barrels stand against the 
wall opposite the shelf They are un 
marked. but one of them seems to be 
slowly leaking a clear liquid onto the floor 
A cabinet filled with an assortment of 
worthless, dented pols and pans leans 
against the wall, looking as il it might col 
lapse at any moment 


This dark chamber is clearly a tomb 
The stone walls are covered with frost, 
and the air is even colder than it was out 
side Four broken pine coffins rest atop 
stone slabs along one wall of the room As 
you look around, a sudden gust of frigid 
air claws through your clothes. Your eyes 
make out more of the room, but then the 
hairs on the back of your neck stand on 
end dark shapes are rising from the cas 
kets 


Room 7: Kitchen 


This area is an old kitchen The walls 
and ceiling are coated with soot and the 
floor scattered with ash, looking almost 
like black snow Two large tables, obvious 
ly used for food preparation since their 
surfaces are cut, stained, and marked 
from years of use, occupy the room A 
large Iron stove in this room is host to a 
small lire While it does little lo drive off 
the cold that pervades this place, it does 
make the room less bitter 
Standing at one of the tables is a pair of 
horrid creatures Each Is as tall as a man 
but is covered in coarse white fur As you 
enter they turn away from the animal they 
are butchering and let out a hiss of alarm 
With horror, you realize they have the 
faces of foul rats! Raising their meat 
cleavers high, they charge at you 


Room 13: Barrik's Chambers 


The floor of this room Is littered with 
bones Most of them are clearly those of 
small animals, but a few bones appear to 
be those of humans or demihumans As 
you look about, a number of rats scurry for 
shelter. 

A large bed. broken and uncomfortable 
looking, rises from the litter. The bed is 
covered with oily, tattered blankets that 
look unsuitable for use even as rags A 
battered desk and a decrepit chair grace 
the room. 


Room 3: Study 


This room is a small study A large oak 
desk stands in one corner next to a solid 
but comfortable-looking chair Book 
shelves run along one wall, holding books 
of all shapes and sizes A vermilion rug 
lies across the center of the floor, dark 
stains have ruined it. however An old, tar 
nished suit of plate armor stands in the 
corner, and bits of broken weapons and 
armor are scattered about A fine layer of 
dust covers everything, strange, twisted 
footprints crisscross the soot and mark 
the recent passage of numerous unhu 
man creatures through the area 
On the desk Is a large, opened book 
The pages are yellow with age and cov 
ered with dust A crimson bookmark lies 
across the top page, indicating the book 
has been opened to a passage of some 
Importance 


. :; 


Room 14: Storage 


This room is stacked with large boxes 
and crates. Many of the lower ones have 
broken from the weight of those on top. re 
sulting In a jumbled pile of collapsed con 
tainers and fragments of wood The 
rotting wood gives off a stale odor of mil 
dew and decay Most of the broken boxes 
seem to have been empty when they col 
lapsed or perhaps have had their contents 
removed over the years 


SfUMf 


Room 15: Laboratory 


This chamber was once used as a labo 
ratory for research into strange and mys 
terious matters. Two large work benches 
are covered with the shattered remnants 
of beakers, burners, and other scientific 
apparatus. Most of the pieces are solidly 
frozen to the tables' surface, and icicles 
dangle from the equipment and along the 
edge of the counters A shimmering layer 
of smooth ice covers the floor-making 
footing slippery at best. 

A large throne rests atop a pedestal in 
one corner of the room. Both throne and 
pedestal have been carved from a single 
block of ice and radiate an aura of cold 
that affects everything in the room Set 
within the pedestal of ice is the slender 
shape of a silver sword 

A lanky humanoid figure with the fur 
and face of a rat reclines on the throne. He 
holds a crude scepter fashioned from sev 
eral bones, a crown of similar manufac 
ture sits on his head When his beady 
black eyes look upon you, a feeling of re 
vulsion wells up within you 


Room 5: Dining Room 


The center of this room is dominated by 
a large oak table A thin crack in the cell 
ing allows the chilling winds outside to 
swirl into this room, keeping it cold and 
drafty Every so often, oily flakes of dirty 
snow find their way in. drifting down to set 
tle on the table and floor 
Two places are set at the table, one at 
each end The dishes are ancient and 
cracked, but were once of the highest val 
ue The goblets and cutlery are tarnished, 
but they are fashioned of fine silver and 
are, no doubt, quite valuable 
Along one wall, a glass-doored cabinet 
displays a variety of china, glasses, and 
the like All the pieces were once beauti 
ful. but they are now worthless because 
the Items are laced with tiny fractures and 
peppered with chips and nicks 


Room 16: Cell 


Room 4: Library 


Room 6: Tower 


This cell is strewn with the bones of ani 
mals and men Four stout metal rings are 
set into the stone walls, with a sturdy 
chain looped through each ring. The 
chains end in manacles fastened around 
the legs of four elves The elves were fro 
zen after having been chained up, for 
each is encased in a sheaih of ice some 2 
inches thick Sadly, they appear dead 
Based on the fact that the elves are wear 
ing armor and carrying traveling gear 
much like your own, it seems logical to as 
sume that these are the first adventurers 
sent to the keep by the burgomaster 


You have entered a decaying, ruined li 
brary The walls are lined with book 
shelves that are, In turn, filled with books 
These volumes come In every shape and 
size, from crudely bound bundles of let 
ters lo ornate and impressive covers craft 
ed of the finest leather Without exception, 
however, the books have fallen victim to 
the ravages of time Many are half- 
crumbled into dust, others are covered by 
a fine layer of moss or mold, and some 
even appear to have been victims of wan 
ton vandalism 


This is the base of a square stone tower 
The upper floors have been torn out as if 
blown away by some great wind, and the 
area is open to the cold sky above The 
floor is littered with rocks of various sizes 
-debris from the destruction 
Strings of ice that look as though they 
were jets of water frozen In midair by the 
sinister winds of this unnatural winter form 
a sparkling latticework above As the brisk 
wind slips across these glistening strands, 
they seem to hum like the strings of a 
harp 


Room 1: Cloak Room 


Long ago, wooden racks held coats, 
cloaks, and other garments in this room 
Most of the racks have since collapsed, 
dumping the clothing onto the floor A 
thick layer of dust, probably from decayed 
cloth, covers the stone floor. A pile of 
moldy leather, rotting wood, and bits of 
rusty metal lies in each of the room's four 
corners A scratching noise can be heard 
in this room, but it is impossible to pin 
point its location 


"] 

1 

i 


T 


Tn "ilii 

' 

JU- 

J 




5 

i 

l 


i 


f ' - 

_j 


! 

"¦ i i 

U ¦ m 


- ImI.II 

rJ " 


1 

1 

* ' 

151 


* 1 



li,-J 

"ri 



y -*-i 

I \ 

rr 


fe 

1 1 

.in 

1 

fj 

{¦ rnrrirmru 

IU -1 

0 

Hr. 

i 

_11 _ 


frW.Hvr H 



1 1 

---1 





















Official Game Adventure 


Quest for the Silver Sword 


by William W. Connors 



Table of Contents 

Introduction.2 

The Dragon's Den .3 

The Village of Torlynn ... 4 

Barrik's Keep .5 

Return to Torlynn.15 

New Monsters .16 


Credits 

Design .William W. Connors 

Editing.Dori "The Barbarian" Watry 

Product Manager.Bruce A. Heard 

Cover Art.Jeff Easley 

Poster Map Art & 

Stand-up Character Art.Robin Raab 

Interior Art.Karl Waller 

Cartography .Diesel 

Typography .Gaye O'Keefe 

Production.Paul Hanchette 

Encouragement . . . Timothy "How come I'm 
not in the credits anywhere?" Brown 

(r) 1992 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Printed in the U.S.A. 

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and D&D are regis 
tered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. The TSR 
logo Is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have 
worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc. Distributed 
to the book and hobby trade in the United King 
dom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby 
trade by regional distributors. 

This module is protected under the copyright 
laws of the United States of America. Any repro 
duction or unauthorized use of the material or 
artwork presented herein is prohibited without 
the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 


ISBN 1-56076-378-7 

TSR, Inc. 

POB 756 
lake Geneva 
Wl 53147 
USA 



9342 

TSR ltd. 

120 Church End, 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CBt 31B 
United Kingdom 


W 

1 




¦A 




m 

























intROfcuction 


This adventure is designed for four to six characters of 
2nd or 3rd level. If there are more than six players or if 
the characters are of higher levels, the Dungeon Master 
(DM) should make some of the encounters more difficult. 
He or she can do this by increasing the number of mon 
sters encountered; by increasing a monster's hit dice, hit 
points, and/or the amount of damage inflicted by its at 
tack; or by lowering a monster's armor class, which will 
make the monster harder to hit. 

Note that boxed text should be read aloud to the play 
ers. Explanatory text for the DM's eyes only follow the 
boxed text; the DM should read this material silently be 
fore revealing it to the players. 

What's Needed to Play? 

Quest for the Silver Sword is the second in a series of adven 
tures for the new DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) Game. 
It is a self-contained product-it does not require the DM 
to purchase the first module in the series, and it does not 
leave any loose ends dangling to be tied up by the third 
module. 

The only things needed to play this module are the 
D&D(r) Game, a few friends, some paper and pencils, and 
a thirst for adventure! 

Adventure Overview 

In this module, a group of beginning adventurers sets out 
to help the small town of Torlynn. This village has myste 
riously fallen under a dreadful curse-a curse that has 
locked the area in a terrifying state of perpetual winter. 
The burgomaster of Torlynn has discovered that the crea 
ture responsible is hiding in the ruins near Torlynn, but 
he has been unable to do anything about it. Everyone he 
has sent to investigate has thus far failed to return. 

When the player characters (PCs) explore the ruins at 
the heart of this never-ending winter, they will uncover a 
wererat named Keshute and his gang of foul minions. 
These sinister creatures are attempting to drive the good 
people of Torlynn out of the valley. 

If the PCs succeed in ridding the ruins of the wererat, 
they will return to Torlynn as heroes. If they fail, how 
ever, they will be just another group of adventurers who 
vanished. 


Name of Monster (number encountered): AC 

(armor class); HD (hit dice); hp (hit points); MV 
(movement rate); #AT (number of attacks); 
THACO (see below); Dmg (damage inflicted per 
attack); Save as (what the monster's saving throw 
is based on); ML (morale rating); AL (align 
ment); XP (experience reward for defeating the 
monster); Treasure (how much treasure the mon 
ster has). 

One of the entries, THACO, may be new to beginning 
players and DMs. It stands for "To Hit Armor Class 0." 
To determine the roll a monster needs to hit a character 
who has a specific armor class, simply subtract the tar 
get's AC from the monster's THACO number. Thus, if a 
monster's THACO is 19 and its target is AC 3, the mon 
ster needs to roll a 16 or better to hit the character. 

Wandering Monsters 

From time to time, the DM may wish to introduce a wan 
dering monster into the game. There is no strict rule in 
this adventure about when such encounters should occur. 
Generally, consider using them when the game is slowing 
down or if the players' party is too strong for the adven 
ture. Wandering monster encounters can also force the 
players to move on if they are spending too much time in 
an area that isn't important to the adventure as a whole. 

Use the following table for generating random wander 
ing monster encounters. 

Roll ld8 Monster No. Appearing 

1-3 Ratlings ld4 

4-5 Giant rats ld4 

6 Giant bats ld3 

7 Giant centipedes ld6 

8 Stirges 2d3 

Statistics for ratlings are found on the last page of this 
module. The other monsters are described in the Rule 
Book found in the D&D Game. 


Monsters 

Throughout the course of this adventure, the characters 
will confront dangerous monsters. When such encounters 
occur, information about each monster is presented in the 
following format. 


2 




the dRaqon's den 


Begin the adventure with the characters staying at the 
Dragon's Den Inn. The PCs can be recuperating after 
completing a previous quest or they can be simply visiting 
the area. 

When the players are ready to begin, read aloud the 
following. A 


You have spent the day relaxing in your rooms at the 
Dragon's Den, a comfortable inn nestled in a grove of 
trees beside a rolling stream. The gurgling of the water, 
the sweet summer air, and the fine food served by the 
inn's owner has made a nice change of pace. 

It is now dusk. A small fire wards off the chill of the 
night air outside, and the last dishes from the evening 
meal are being cleared from your table. As you and 
your comrades settle in for a night of quiet conversa 
tion with the other guests at the inn, you hear a com 
motion at the front door. 

A young man is led into the room by the innkeeper, 
who points out your party. The stranger shakes the 
hosteler's hand and smiles broadly. With a timid wave 
of his hand he walks over to your table. 

"My name is Erik," he says. "I had heard your par 
ty might be here, but I wasn't sure I would catch you 
before your journeys took you elsewhere! I have been 
charged by the Burgomaster of Torlynn to persuade 
you to return with me to our village." 

The young man fumbles around in his pouch and 
pulls out a bone scroll tube. He opens it, breaking the 
wax seal, and pulls out a rolled sheet of paper. As he 
hands the roll to you (the person he presumes is the 
leader), you cannot help but notice the fine texture of 
the paper. When you untie the silk ribbon wrapping 
the letter, you find a plea for help. 

You read aloud the following to your comrades: 

"I, Gustovan, burgomaster of Torlynn, am in need 
of help. My village has fallen under a dark and evil 
curse, the likes of which I have been unable to fathom. 
Other adventurers have been hired to combat this evil, 
but all have failed. I do not think I am wrong in saying 
that your party is my last hope. 

"If you consent to aid my village, you will be re 
warded. We are not rich, for the curse has robbed us of 
our prosperity, but all that we have we will gladly give 
to you. Signed, Gustovan of Torlynn." 

When you finish the letter, you see Erik looking im 
ploringly at you. In a voice filled with entreaty, he asks, 
"Will you help us?" 


The characters are free to take a few minutes to talk 
over the offer among themselves. If they prefer privacy, 
they can adjourn to one of their rooms. Erik will wait as 
long as need be for their reply. He will always have an 
expectant look on his face; he is sure these young heroes 
will agree to help his village and will be deeply disap 
pointed if they do not. 

If the players agree to help Erik and the people of 
Torlynn, proceed with the next section of this adventure. 

If the players turn down Erik's plea, he will begin to 
sob and explain that their refusal spells the end of Tor 
lynn. Everything he has ever known will be lost! If his 
pleas are enough to move the party to reconsider, then the 
adventure can continue. But if the PCs continue to turn a 
deaf ear to Erik's sorrows, he will eventually leave. The 
adventure is now at an end. 

The DM should have a short talk with the players 
about what it means to be a hero. As adventurers of re 
nown, these characters have a reputation to uphold and a 
duty to people like Erik. 



3 










the Village of toRlynn 


Once the adventurers have agreed to help Erik, read 
aloud the text below to the players when they decide to 
leave the Dragon's Den. 


Erik leads you out the inn to a handsome carriage. It 
is simple in design but seems well constructed and 
looks comfortable enough. He apologizes for not being 
able to transport you in a more elegant manner-a 
manner that a group of heroes such as yourselves must 
be accustomed to-but this was the best his village 
could muster. 

The young man proves an able teamster on the way 
to Torlynn. The road is good, the horses fast, and the 
countryside pleasant. Although the trip takes three 
days, Erik stops regularly. At every such stop and espe 
cially at night, he begs you to tell him stories about 
your adventures. He listens eagerly to every word you 
say, and it is clear he is impressed by you and your 
comrades. 

On the third day, as you draw near to Torlynn, you 
cannot help but notice that something is amiss. The air 
seems unusually brisk, although the sun is high and 
bright. Before long, you notice that the leaves on the 
trees have begun to change colors-just as if it were 
autumn. Erik seems to take no notice of this, though he 
pulls a warm shawl around himself in an effort to ward 
off the cold. 

When you enter the village of Torlynn, you find it is 
a small town beside a narrow river in a wooded valley. 
The river is frozen over, however, and the trees are 
bare. The houses and shops have fallen into disrepair, 
and many have been boarded up and abandoned. On 
ly a few people are visible, but they all look tired and 
careworn-as if they have been working under a great 
strain. 

As the wagon rolls to a stop in front of the largest of 
Torlynn's run-down houses, a dirty snow silently be 
gins to fall. 


Erik leads the characters into the house, which belongs 
to the burgomaster himself. The young man guides the 
adventurers to a parlor where pots of hot coffee and tea 
await them. After the cold outside, the drinks are warm 
and refreshing. 

Erik tells the heroes that they will be staying here, for 
the inn closed several months ago. If the player characters 
ask Erik about the strange weather, he says only that the 
burgomaster will answer their questions and then excuses 


himself to see to their bags and rooms. 

Shortly after Erik leaves, a heavy set man with dark 
hair, a thick moustache, and a silver-framed monocle 
waddles into the room. His expression is one of concern 
and agitation. 


"My friends, I am Burgomaster Gustovan. I am 
glad you have come. I see from the looks on your faces 
that you have already noticed the terrible affliction 
upon our village-the curse of eternal winter. Today is 
traditionally the warmest day of the year, yet an inch of 
snow has fallen since you arrived. 

"I believe I know the source of this foul magic. Some 
miles outside Torlynn lies a ruined keep. It is said that 
this place was once home to a mad wizard. Three 
springs ago, a pair of trappers reported seeing a light in 
the keep one night. Thinking the local children might 
be playing in the dangerous ruin, they went to investi 
gate. To their horror, they found the place inhabited by 
foul, ratlike creatures-the likes of which they had nev 
er seen. They raced to town to tell me their story. 

"I immediately contacted a team of adventurers 
much like yourselves and asked them to explore the 
keep. I have not seen or heard from them since. That 
first summer, shortly after the party disappeared, 
winter set in. I am convinced that whatever dwells in 
the ruin is the cause of this awful curse. 

"Good people, we of Torlynn have been in the throes 
of winter for two years now-and there seems no end 
in sight. We cannot raise crops or forage for food in the 
forests surrounding us, and our supplies are very near 
ly exhausted. Every day that passes sees more and 
more of my people leave for happier lands. Soon, there 
will be no one left in Torlynn. 

"Will you help us? Will you travel to the keep and 
break this evil spell? I can offer you little in reward for 
your services, but there are stories about the mad wiz 
ard hiding treasure in the keep. If this is true, the trea 
sure is yours if you can but remove the curse from our 
town." 


The players should jump at the chance to help the vil 
lage. If they refuse, there is nothing that Gustovan can do 
short of begging. As with Erik at the inn, however, the 
DM should remind reluctant players what it means to be 
a hero. If the PCs agree to help, go on to the next section 
of this adventure. If they do not agree, the adventure is 
over. 


4 





BaRRiks keep 


At this point in the adventure, it's time for the PCs to 
begin exploring the dungeon itself. Set the mood and 
scene by reading the following. 


The hike from Torlynn to the ruined keep is not diffi 
cult. Although strangely dirty snow falls during the en 
tire trip, there are plenty of game trails and hunters' 
paths to follow. In two hours you are standing outside 
a darkly ominous stone ruin. 

The keep is built of large stone blocks; it has a few 
slender arrow slits in the walls, no windows, and only 
one door. The stone, which is beginning to crumble, is 
old but still sturdy. The door hangs from its hinges and 
stands open, as if inviting you to enter the darkness 
within. A shiver sweeps through your bones, but you 
don't know whether this is because of the chilling cold 
of the eternal winter or the evil lingering in this place. 

Putting aside your misgivings, you step through the 
doorway and into the unknown. 


The DM should place the poster map on the table in a 
position for all the players to see and reach; this map is 
used for the remainder of the adventure. Take the figures 
representing the adventuring party and place them, one 
to a square, in the area marked "Start Here" on the map. 
The following text describes what the characters see as 
they enter this area. 


You step through the battered door of the keep and 
look around. This room, once a richly decorated en 
trance hall, has been ruined by the passage of time. 
Damaged paintings hang from the walls, bits of furni 
ture lie on the floor, and cobwebs cling to every corner. 
You choke on the odor of mildew and rotting wood. A 
brisk wind blows outside, lending a shrill, but faint, 
whistle to the air. 


There is nothing of interest or importance to the char 
acters in this room. It is simply a starting point for the 
adventure. 

Because the adventurers aren't likely to go to each 
room in sequential order, the descriptions of the rooms for 
the players are also printed on the inside cover of this 
module as an aid to the DM. After he or she reads the 
description there and while the players talk over what to 
do, the DM can flip to the page indicated for that room 
and read the DM's description. By the time players have 



mdv 


decided on a course of action, the DM will be prepared 
for anything that might happen in the room. 

Room 1: Cloak Room 

Long ago, wooden racks held coats, cloaks, and oth 
er garments in this room. Most of the racks have since 
collapsed, dumping the clothing onto the floor. A thick 
layer of dust, probably from decayed cloth, covers the 
stone floor. A pile of moldy leather, rotting wood, and 
bits of rusty metal lies in each of the room's four cor 
ners. A scratching noise can be heard in this room, but 
it is impossible to pinpoint its location. 


Anyone who investigates the piles in the corners will find 
that each is the home of a giant rat. If a character disturbs a 
mound in any way, the rat lurking inside will be angered 
and attack. If members of the party examine more than 
one pile at a time, the rat in each pile will attack. 

Giant rats (4): AC 7; HD V 2 ; hp 2 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; THACO 19; Dmg ld3; Save as 
Normal Man; ML 8; AL N; XP 5; Treasure (see 
below). 


5 











BARRik's keep 


If the party has fought one combat round against one or 
more rats, another rat will emerge and attack (if any are 
left). Each round, a new rat will emerge from its pile until 
all four have joined the fight. DMs should note that these 
rats do not carry the disease mentioned in the 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) Rule Book, so there is no 
need to check for infection if a character is wounded by the 
rats. 

Searching through the debris after the rats have been 
killed reveals gold pieces. A pair of rusty and worth 
less, but still usable, daggers can also be found. Charac 
ters may wish to take them as additional weapons. 

Room 2: Sitting Room 

This area was once a comfortable and well- 
appointed sitting room where visitors to the keep could 
exchange light conversation with the master of the 
house. Two chairs and a small couch are here, each up 
holstered in a tasteful auburn fabric. A small wooden 
table, perhaps once used for refreshments, is also 
present. Time has been kind to this room, for much of 
the furniture here seems to be in fair condition. There 
is, however, a sharp, bitter odor in the air-an odor 
that reminds you of a smoldering fire or a recently 
blown-out match. 

One object in this room stands out from the rest: on 
the table is an old, yellowed skull. The top of the skull 
is gone and a stubby candle now sits within-just as if 
the skull was a jack-o'-lantern. 


This is the skull of the mad wizard who lived in the 
keep long ago. When he grew ill and knew he would soon 
die, he instructed his apprentice to cast a gruesome spell 
over his corpse so that his spirit might remain to watch 
over the house. When all was said and done, the wizard's 
body was destroyed, leaving only this skull behind. How 
ever, the wizard's life essence remained intact, and the 
skull became a container for that spirit. Over the decades, 
the spirit lost interest in the material world and began to 
wander. Now, it no longer cares about the keep. 

If the skull is damaged or destroyed, the spirit of the 
wizard is released. An action as simple as removing the 
candle from the skull will do the same. The skull explodes 
in a burst of flame that inflicts 2d4 points of damage to 
every character in the room (ld4 if a save vs. breath 
weapon is made). 

If anyone in the party lights the candle in the skull, 

the spirit of the wizard is attracted. Note that once the 
wick is lit, the skull cannot be destroyed or harmed and 


the flame cannot be extinguished. Every other light 
source in the room-be it magical or otherwise-will be 
snuffed out. 

Slowly, terrifyingly, the ghostly image of the wizard ap 
pears to the characters. It identifies itself as Barrik, the 
mage who built this keep long ago, and says, "You have 
entered the house of Barrik, master of the unknown and 
tamer of shadows. I sense an evil presence in my home." 

With that, a burst of flame spews from the eye sockets 
of the skull and engulfs one of the magic-users or elves in 
the party. (Choose or randomly roll to determine who is 
hit; if there are no magic-users or elves, the flame merely 
swirls about the room and dies.) 

The character hit by the flame screams in pain and falls to 
the ground, lying still and looking dead. The light fades 
from the skull and all grows dark. The characters can now 
make light, either magically or with traditional tools. Note 
that magical spells, such as light, will not simply "come back 
on"-they will have to be recast to be effective. 

When the characters examine their fallen companion, 
they will find that he or she is alive and seems unhurt. 
Any wounds that this character had are healed (that is, he 
or she is returned to full hit point total). 

In addition, if the character's Intelligence score is less 
than 18 it is raised by one point. If the Intelligence score is 
already 18, the character's head is filled with the whisper 
ing voice of Barrik, imparting his most secret magical 
knowledge. This newly acquired information is reflected 
in an award of 1,000 experience points to the character. 

Shortly after the spirit's attack ends, the skull breaks up 
and is destroyed. Treat this just as if the characters had 
damaged the skull (see above). 

Room 3: Study 

This room is a small study. A large oak desk stands in 
one corner next to a solid but comfortable-looking chair. 
Bookshelves run along one wall, holding books of all 
shapes and sizes. A vermilion rug lies across the center 
of the floor; dark stains have ruined it, however. An old, 
tarnished suit of plate armor stands in the corner, and 
bits of broken weapons and armor are scattered about. 
A fine layer of dust covers everything-but strange, 
twisted footprints crisscross the soot and mark the recent 
passage of numerous unhuman creatures through the 
area. 

On the desk is a large, opened book. The pages are 
yellow with age and covered with dust. A crimson 
bookmark lies across the top page, indicating the book 
has been opened to a passage of some importance. 


6 




Barr ik's keep 


The stains on the rug are blood. They mark the demise 
of ratlike creatures that died at the hand of the room's 
guardian. The broken pieces of armor and weapons are 
totally worthless. The book on the desk is Barrik's spell 
book. It is surrounded by a magical aura that protects it 
from all nonlawful characters. 

If any of the characters are of neutral or chaotic 
alignments, they will trigger the magical wards when 
they enter the room. The suit of armor in the corner will 
rattle loudly and begin to move. This is an armor golem, a 
creature designed by the old wizard Barrik to protect his 
study. Although it is somewhat slow and cumbersome, it 
is very strong and carries a dangerous axe; the golem can 
be deadly in combat. Like other golems, this creature 
cannot be affected by sleep, charm, or hold spells and is im 
mune to all manner of toxins and gases. Unlike other go 
lems, however, it can be harmed by nonmagical weapons. 

Armor golem (1): AC 2; HD 4 + 1; hp 21; MV 
60' (20'); #AT 1; THACO 16; Dmg ld6; Save as 
Fighter: 4; ML 12; AL N; XP 125; Treasure nil. 

If the party can defeat the armor golem, it will crumble 
(with a loud crash) into a pile of useless metal. A detect 
magic spell will reveal that the metal is still enchanted. If 
the characters think to bring the wreckage out of the 
dungeon, they will find that it can be repaired, cleaned, 
and made usable again for 500 gold pieces. If this is done, 
the armor becomes a suit of plate mail + 1 that will fit any 
human character. The axe is not magical and is too tar 
nished to be worth anything, but it can still be used in 
combat, inflicting ld6 points of damage with each suc 
cessful hit. 

If the party contains only characters o f lajw f oi jalign- 
ment, the ward spell is not triggered. Instead, the room 
remains as described while the characters look around. So 
long as the party does not tamper with the armor suit (by 
taking it apart, attempting to tie it up, or the like), it will 
not attack. However, if the party does something that 
might prevent the armor golem from protecting the 
room, it will attack (as described above). In addition, if 
anyone attempts to damage the spell book, the armor go 
lem will attack. 

Examining the spell book is possible if the golem has 
been destroyed or if the characters are all lawful and do 
not attempt to damage the book. If the book is examined, 
magic-using characters (elves or magic-users) will find 
that it contains several lst-level spells: charm person, detect 
magic, magic missile, and sleep. If the book is taken, it can be 
used like a magical scroll (with each spell being cast once 


and then fading away as its power is expended). If the 
book is not used in this manner, characters can copy the 
spells into their spell books as described in the 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) Rule Book. 

Searching the bookshelves uncovers nothing. These are 
mundane tomes, not magical in any way. The books are 
also very old and not worth much due to their dilapidated 
condition. 

Searching the desk reveals nothing of importance. The 
drawers contain a variety of scribes' tools (ajar of dried- 
out ink, an old and worthless quill pen, a bit of sealing 
wax, and so on) and are full of old papers that crumble 
into dust if handled. One or two mice and a number of 
beetles and grubs are also scurrying around. 

Searching under the rug exposes a small door set into 
the floor. The door is locked but not trapped because Bar 
rik figured his armor golem was more than adequate pro 
tection for his treasures. Beneath the door is a small 
compartment containing three potions of healing, a bag of 
4 tO 60 silver coins, and a nonmagical platinum necklace 
worth 250 gold pieces. 

Room 4: Library 

You have entered a decaying, ruined library. The 
walls are lined with bookshelves that are, in turn, filled 
with books. These volumes come in every shape and 
size, from crudely bound bundles of letters to ornate 
and impressive covers crafted of the Finest leather. 
Without exception, however, the books have fallen vic 
tim to the ravages of time. Many are half-crumbled in 
to dust, others are covered by a fine layer of moss or 
mold, and some even appear to have been victims of 
wanton vandalism. 


If the players search this room, they will Find that the 
volumes are just as worthless as they seem: every book is 
ruined. Characters who search for secret panels on the 
bookcase opposite the door to the library will, if they 
make their roll, discover that one of the books is actually a 
strongbox in the shape of a book. 

Opening the booksafe requires a thief, for the box is 
locked. Breaking it open is possible, but the damage will 
destroy the contents as well as the box. Any thief who 
manages to make an open locks roll will be able to open the 
lid without much difficulty. 

Inside the booksafe is a key fashioned from fine blue 
crystal. If the box was smashed open, this key is now a 
collection of azure shards of no value. The key is not mag 
ical, but it is valuable because it is the only means to open 


7 





BARRik's keep 


the strongbox secreted in Barrik's chambers (Room 13). 

If the player characters take the key, they must decide 
whether to keep it in the booksafe. If they do, then it is 
well protected and will not be harmed by anything that 
happens to the one carrying it (within reason, of course). 
If they do not keep the key in the box (for instance, if they 
put it in a pouch), then there is a 25 % chance that the key 
will break whenever the character carrying it is injured. 
The DM should make a roll to determine if the key breaks 
whenever this character suffers damage. 

In a marketplace, the key could fetch 1$^ gold pieces. 

m 

Room 5: Dining Room 

The center of this room is dominated by a large oak 
table. A thin crack in the ceiling allows the chilling 
winds outside to swirl into this room, keeping it cold 
and drafty. Every so often, oily flakes of dirty snow find 
their way in, drifting down to settle on the table and 
floor. 

Two places are set at the table, one at each end. The 
dishes are ancient and cracked, but were once of the 
highest quality. The goblets and cutlery are tarnished, 
but they are fashioned of fine silver and are, no doubt, 
quite valuable. 

Along one wall, a glass-doored cabinet displays a va 
riety of china, glassware, and the like. All the pieces 
were once beautiful, but they are now worthless be 
cause the items are laced with tiny fractures and pep 
pered with chips and nicks. 


This dining room is occasionally used by the wererat 
and his minions, but they have not used it now in several 
weeks. The items of silver in this room are worth a total of 
1,750 gold pieces and weigh 200 coins. 

If the party gathers this treasure and loads it into 
their packs, one of them (chosen at random) comes across 
a small silver bell-it remains untarnished and is magnif 
icently crafted. Clearly this is a magical item. When the 
player rings this bell, it will cause a fine meal to spring 
into being. The food will be exactly as desired by the 
character who rang the bell, reflecting his or her own per 
sonal tastes and desires. 

Thereafter, in order to use the bell, a character must 
state the food desired and then ring the instrument vigor 
ously. When the last note of the bell's chime fades away, 
the meal appears before him or her. The food appears in 
containers suitable to its nature (soup in a bowl, tea in a 
cup, and so on), but the dishes all vanish after the food is 
consumed. If the meal is not eaten within a half hour, it 


fades away. The bell may be rung any number of times, 
but it will only produce food three times per day. 

During the course of this adventure, anyone ringing 
the bell risks drawing the attention of the ratlings that live 
in the keep. When the bell is rung, roll ld6. On a 6, ld4 
ratlings attack the characters. 

Ratlings (1-4): AC 7; HD 1; hp 4 each; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; THAC0 19; Dmg ld4; Save as Nor 
mal Man; ML 9; AL C; XP 10; Treasure 2d6 gp. 

Room 6: Tower 

This is the base of a square stone tower. The upper 
floors have been torn out as if blown away by some 
great wind, and the area is open to the cold sky above. 
The floor is littered with rocks of various sizes-debris 
from the destruction. 

Strings of ice that look as though they were jets of 
water frozen in midair by the sinister winds of this un 
natural winter form a sparkling latticework above. As 
the brisk wind slips across these glistening strands, 
they seem to hum like the strings of a harp. 


This is the lair of a monstrous species of arctic spider 
known as a white widow. Unlike other spiders, it thrives in 
the cold that hangs over this region. The wererat ob 
tained this particular spider from a traveling merchant 
when the spider was very young. He keeps the spider as a 
pet, using it to keep prisoners secure until he wants them. 
The first party of adventurers to come to the keep was 
thrown to the spider after they were captured by the rat 
lings; the characters are now kept in the cell adjacent to 
the wizard's lab (Rooms 16 and 15, respectively). 


White widow (1): AC 6; HD 3; hp 45"; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; THAC0 17; Dmg 2d4 + cryotoxin; 
Save as Normal Man; ML 10; AL N; XP 65; 
Treasure (see below). 


The white widow's web is not used to trap prey. Rather, 
it is designed to whistle in the wind (as it does here), 
thereby emitting a magical sound. Anyone who hears the 
web's humming must save vs. spells or be lulled into a 
state of lethargy. Those who have been lulled and who can 
still hear the music of the web move at half speed and at 
tack with a - 2 on their hit rolls. The web is quite fragile, 
however, and any attack upon it that hits will shatter it 
and free those under its spell. The web is AC 9. 

The white widow's bite injects an unusual toxin that 


8 




BapRik's keep 


lowers the body temperature of those she successfully at 
tacks. Anyone bitten by the white widow must make a 
saving throw vs. poison or be instantly frozen solid. The 
frozen characters are still alive, although no physical ex 
amination will reveal this to the characters and they 
might easily be mistaken for dead. The white widow 
keeps frozen prey around, which she thaws out when she 
is hungry. 

If the characters slay the spider, they find a total of 
130 gold pieces scattered about the spider's lair (loose 
coins lost by previous victims of the spider). Searching 
and collecting the money will take some time (6 turns), 
and there is a chance that the ratlings will notice the char 
acters exploring the room. Roll a 1 in 6 chance each turn 
for ld4 ratlings to find and attack the adventurers. 

Ratlings (1-4): AG 7; HD 1; hp 4 each; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; THACO 19; Dmg ld4; Save as Nor 
mal Man; ML 9; AL C; XP 10; Treasure 2d6 gp. 

Room 7: Kitchen 

This area is an old kitchen. The walls and ceiling are 
coated with soot and the floor scattered with ash, look 
ing almost like black snow. Two large tables, obviously 
used for food preparation since their surfaces are cut, 
stained, and marked from years of use, occupy the 
room. A large iron stove in this room is host to a small 
fire. While it does little to drive off the cold that per 
vades this place, it does make the room less bitter. 

Standing at one of the tables is a pair of horrid crea 
tures. Each is as tall as a man but is covered in coarse 
white fur. As you enter they turn away from the animal 
they are butchering and let out a hiss of alarm. With 
horror, you realize they have the faces of foul rats! 
Raising their meat cleavers high, they charge at you. 


These foul beasts are ratlings -twisted and evil minions 
of the wererat who rules this place now. They will kill the 
adventurers to protect their master, whatever the cost. 

Ratlings (1-4): AC 7; HD 1; hp 4 each; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; THACO 19; Dmg ld4; Save as Nor 
mal Man; ML 9; AL C; XP 10; Treasure 2d6 gp. 

If the ratlings are defeated the characters may search 
the kitchen. They will find a variety of utensils and cut 
lery but nothing more dangerous than the cleavers wield 
ed by the ratlings. However, the DM should use good 
judgment when responding to reasonable requests from 


the players about searches for specific items (a pepper mill 
or fork, for example). Most common kitchen items can be 
found in the room, although they will have suffered from 
years of neglect and recent abuse by the ratlings. Nothing 
found in the kitchen is worth more than 10 silver pieces. 

Room 8: Tomb 

This dark chamber is clearly a tomb. The stone walls 
are covered with frost, and the air is even colder than it 
was outside. Four broken pine coffins rest atop stone 
slabs along one wall of the room. As you look around, a 
sudden gust of frigid air claws through your clothes. 
Your eyes make out more of the room, but then the 
hairs on the back of your neck stand on end: dark 
shapes are rising from the caskets. 


The dark figures are the undead remains of Barrik's 
four apprentices. They remain faithful to their old master 
and will attempt to destroy any intruders exploring his 
keep. Three of them are common zombies and will attack 
the party on sight. The fourth is more dangerous, for it is 
a ghoul. 

The ratlings know that these undead horrors will attack 
any creature entering the tomb, so they avoid this room 
at all costs. Thus, there is treasure in here that no one 
knows about. Also, should the adventurers slay the mon 
sters and survive the encounter, this room would prove a 
safe area for resting. \ *y % 

Zombies (3): AC 8; HD 2; hp k each; MV 90' 
(30'); #AT 1; THACO 18; Dmg ld8; Save as 
Fighter: 1; ML 12; AL C; XP 20; Treasure (see 
below). 

Ghoul (1): AC 6; HD 2; hp K>; MV 90' (30'); 

#AT 3; THACO 18; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld3 + paraly 
sis; Save as Fighter: 2; ML 9; AL C; XP 25; 
Treasure (see below). 

Anyone hit by the ghoul must make a saving throw vs. 
paralysis or be unable to move for 2d4 turns. Elves are 
immune to this special attack and need not make a saving 
throw. 

If the zombies and their master are defeated, the party 
can search the room. Careful examination reveals that 
the four coffins have false bottoms. Each compartment is 
trapped as described below; a thief, however, can attempt 
to disarm each trap, with successful attempts allowing the 
caskets to be opened safely. Regardless of which order the 


9 




BaRRik's keep 


coffins are opened (that is, left to right, right to left, or at 
random), reveal the contents in the following sequence. 

The first coffin explored is rigged with a poisonous gas 
cloud that is released upon opening the secret compart 
ment. This cloud fills the entire room, but it has no effect 
on the player characters at all. Instead, it causes the mon 
sters recently defeated to rise and attack the characters 
anew. The monsters are again at their full starting hit 
points. Once the monsters are slain a second time, they 
will not become animate again. Inside this compartment 
is a randomly generated magical item or an item of the 
DM's choosing. 

The second coffin is protected by a poisoned needle 
that snaps out to prick the finger of anyone who opens the 
false bottom. Once injected with the toxin on the needle, 
the character will begin to feel drowsy. If he fails a saving 
throw vs. poison, he dies in ld6 rounds unless some man 
ner of healing magic is used on him. Because this is an old 
poison and therefore quite weak, any healing spell (even 
those that do not normally affect poison) will work. If the 
save is made, the character is paralyzed for 2d4 turns in 
stead. Inside the cache is a pouch containing 100 silver 
coins and a silver dagger (worth 50 gold pieces). 

The third coffin has been trapped with two small vials 
of liquid that explode upon mixing. Opening the secret 
compartment dumps the vials into a bowl, resulting in 



detonation. This explosion is treated just as if a 3rd-level 
fireball spell had gone off in the room. Thus, everyone in 
the room suffers 3d6 points of damage, but a save vs. 
spells gives only half damage. The explosion destroys the 
treasure in the casket, but if the trap is discovered and 
defused, a scroll with three cure light wounds spells will be 
found. 

The fourth coffin is designed so that anyone who 
opens the false bottom is sprayed with green slime. 
(Green slime is fully described in the "Monsters" section 
of the D&D(r) Rule Book , but its statistics are reprinted be 
low for ease of reference.) Within the compartment are a 
magical sword + 1 and a shield + 1. 

Green slime (1): AC (can always be hit); HD 2; 
hp 6; MV 3' (1'); #AT 1; THACO special; Dmg 
special; Save as Fighter: 1; ML 12; AL N; XP 
30; Treasure nil. 

Room 9: Antechamber 

This room is empty and cold. A long, narrow crack 
in one wall allows the frigid wind to break into the keep 
here. The floor, walls, and ceiling are lined with frost, 
and every breath you exhale curls away from your face 
in a rolling cloud of fog. 


There is nothing unusual in this room. 

Room 10: L arder _ 

This area is dominated by a large storage rack that 
runs the entire length of the room. Smoked meats and 
preserved foods are stacked haphazardly on the 
shelves, many showing signs of mold and rot. Al 
though the cold seems to have kept flies and the like 
from infesting the area, small beetles and centipedes 
crawl on the foodstuff. 

A pair of stout barrels stand against the wall opposite 
the shelf. They are unmarked, but one of them seems 
to be slowly leaking a clear liquid onto the floor. A cabi 
net filled with an assortment of worthless, dented pots 
and pans leans against the wall, looking as if it might 
collapse at any moment. 


If the characters do not explore this room closely, 

they can leave it safely. While there is a hazard here (in 
the form of several giant centipedes), the party will not 
encounter it if they do not search the foodstuff. 

If the characters search the room, they will upset the 


10 










Barries keep 


giant centipedes lurking in the preserved food. There is 
one centipede here for each member of the party, and as 
soon as one is aroused they will all swarm to attack. 

Giant centipedes: AC 9; HD V 2 ; hp 2 each; MV 
60' (20'); #AT 1; THACO 19; Dmg nil (poison); 
Save as Normal Man; ML 7; AL N; XP 6; Trea 
sure nil. 

If anyone is bitten by a centipede, he or she must make 
a save vs. poison. Those who fail their saves are sick for 
10 days and move at half speed during this time. For the 
purpose of this adventure, those afflicted can attack at a 
-4 while under the effect of the toxin. Additional bites 
extend the duration of the illness but not the severity of 
the penalty. 

If the centipedes are defeated, the characters can find 
up to one week's worth of edible preserved rations from 
the larder. While this food is not of excellent quality (it 
was made by rats, after all), it will keep the characters 
alive and fed. 

Room 11: Wine Cellar 

The first thing you notice in this room is the ornate 
wooden rack secured to one wall. An assortment of 
cracked wine bottles litters its many compartments, 
and the floor is covered with shards of broken glass. A 
dozen or so rats vanish into the cracks in the walls with 
squeals of protest at your intrusion. 


Exploring the room reveals little of value. There are 
rats everywhere, and the remaining bottles of wine are 
ruined, the contents having turned to vinegar long ago. 

If the PCs opt to rest in this room they will be fairly 
safe. As awful as this place is with the broken glass and 
rats, it is safe enough for the characters to rest and recov 
er expended spells and lost hit points. For every hour that 
passes, however, there is a 1 in 6 chance that ld4 ratlings 
will discover the PCs' hiding place and attack. 

Ratlings (1-4): AC 7; HD l;hp4each; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; THACO 19; Dmg ld4; Save as Nor 
mal Man; ML 9; AL C; XP 10; Treasure 2d6 gp. 

Room 12: Ballroom 

This room, once an elegant ballroom, is now filled 
with garbage and debris. Two exquisite chandeliers 
still hang from the ceiling, but they are the only trace of 


dignity left. The air is thick with the foul odor of rot 
ting food. Despite the chill, insects buzz to and fro- 
bloated from their feast of filth. The floor is slick with 
slime and rats scurry amid the piles of refuse. 


This room serves two purposes for the wererat who 
dwells in the keep. First, it is a dumping ground for all of 
his refuse. Second, it is a good defense against intruders 
because, in addition to the less harmful pests in the room 
(rats and flies), there is a gelatinous cube oozing around. 

Normally the gelatinous cube survives by eating what- 
ever's edible in the garbage, but when something more tasty 
comes along (like the heroes!), it attacks with wicked glee. 
Because it blends in so well with the filth and muck in this 
room, it will surprise the party on a roll of 1-4 on ld6. 

Gelatinous cube (1): AC 8; HD 4; hp,20; MV 
60' (20'); #AT 1; THACO 16; Dmg 2d4 + paraly 
sis; Save as Fighter: 2; ML 12; AL N; XP 125; 
Treasure (see below). 

Anyone hit by the cube's attack must make a saving 
throw vs. paralysis or be unable to move for 2d4 turns. 
Once paralyzed, a victim is unable to defend him- or her 
self and the cube need not make another attack roll to in 
flict more damage. 

The cube is not harmed by cold or lightning, but it is 
vulnerable to fire and conventional attacks with weapons. 

Once the cube is slain, the party may search the room 
for treasure. This will take quite a while, and additional 
attacks from wandering monsters drawn by the sound of 
fighting may occur. 

For each character, roll percentile dice and consult the 
following table for each round spent searching for the 
cube's treasure. 

Roll 

IdlOO Result 

1-5 The character finds a magical item (roll ran 

domly to determine type). This result may 
only come up once per character; ignore sub 
sequent rolls if they indicate additional magical 
items. 

6-25 The character finds ldlO x 10 gold coins scat 
tered among the debris. 

26-50 The character is attacked by giant rats! On a 
roll of 1 or 2 on a ld6, the rats surprise the hero. 
(See statistics on the following page.) 

51-00 Nothing unusual is discovered. 


11 





BARRiks keep 


Giant rats (4): AC 7; HD V 2 ; hp 2 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; THACO 19; Dmg ld3; Save as 
Normal Man; ML 8; AL N; XP 5; Treasure nil. 

Room 13: Barrik's Chambers 

The floor of this room is littered with bones. Most of 
them are clearly those of small animals, but a few 
bones appear to be those of humans or demihumans. 
As you look about, a number of rats scurry for shelter. 

A large bed, broken and uncomfortable-looking, ris 
es from the litter. The bed is covered with oily, tattered 
blankets that look unsuitable for use even as rags. A 
battered desk and a decrepit chair grace the room. 


When the wererat took over the ruin, he made this room 
his lair. The bones are those of his past victims, many of 
whom he gruesomely ate. Although he is not here at the 
time the adventurers explore the room, his pet spitting 
beetle is. 

Spitting beetle (1): AC 7; HD 1; hp 8; MV 60' 
(20'); #AT 1; THACO 19; Dmg ld4 + spit acid; 

Save as Normal Man; ML 9; AL N; XP 13; 

Treasure nil. 

The spitting beetle is about 1 foot long and dark gray. It 
has two eyes that glow pale yellow in the dark. When the 
party enters the room, it is hiding under the bed. If a 
member of the party looks beneath the bed, the beetle 
spits a stream of acid onto the character's face-inflicting 
ld4 points of damage and permanently reducing his or 
her Charisma by one point. 

The beetle will attack in this same manner for each 
round that the party remains in the room. If no one looks 
under the bed, there is only a 2 in 6 chance that the beetle 
will get a clear shot at someone. If it is attacked while it 
lurks under the bed, only pointed thrusting weapons can 
be used (a spear or sword, for example) and then only 
with a - 4 penalty to the attack roll. If the bed is removed 
or destroyed in some way, the beetle can be attacked nor 
mally. 

Searching the desk reveals a small strongbox. If a detect 
magic spell is cast upon it, the chest will radiate powerful 
magic, for Barrik wove a spell over the box that sealed it 
for all time. The only way to open the chest is with the 
blue crystal key from the library (Room 4). 

If the characters have the key, they can open the 
chest. The key placed in the lock will cancel the spell with 
a brilliant flash of light, melting the key and causing the 


lid of the chest to pop open slightly. 

If the characters don't have the key, nothing they can 
do will open the chest. Any attempt they make to destroy it 
or break it open will likewise fail-Barrik's magic is simply 
too powerful for the likes of these player characters. 

Inside the strongbox are three magical items: a dagger 
+1, wand of magic detection , and bag of holding. In addition, 
there are a pouch of gems (five stones, each worth 3d6 x 
10 gold pieces) and a small wooden box with 500 gold 
coins in it. 

Room 14: Storage ___ 

This room is stacked with large boxes and crates. 
Many of the lower ones have broken from the weight of 
those on top, resulting in a jumbled pile of collapsed 
containers and fragments of wood. The rotting wood 
gives off a stale odor of mildew and decay. Most of the 
broken boxes seem to have been empty when they col 
lapsed or perhaps have had their contents removed 
over the years. 


These boxes once contained the items Barrik used in 
his spell research. Over the years, their contents have rot 
ted away, been looted by the ratlings, or even escaped. 
Thus, there is nothing of interest in this room. 

If the characters search the boxes, the DM should take 
care to describe the strange remnants of the things they 
find. For example, he or she can say, "Inside the first box 
are four withered butterfly wings." No explanation for 
these unusual things should be given-and the stranger 
the contents the better. 

Room 15: La boratory ___ 

This chamber was once used as a laboratory for re 
search into strange and mysterious matters. Two large 
work benches are covered with the shattered remnants 
of beakers, burners, and other scientific apparatus. 
Most of the pieces are solidly frozen to the tables' sur 
face, and icicles dangle from the equipment and along 
the edge of the counters. A shimmering layer of 
smooth ice covers the floor-making footing slippery 
at best. 

A large throne rests atop a pedestal in one corner of 
the room. Both throne and pedestal seem to have been 
carved from a single block of ice and radiate an aura of 
cold that affects everything in the room. Set within the 
ice is the slender shape of a silver sword. 


12 






BARRik's keep 


A lanky humanoid figure with the fur and face of a 
rat reclines on the throne. He holds a crude scepter 
fashioned from several bones; a crown of similar man 
ufacture sits on his head. When his beady black eyes 
look upon you, a feeling of revulsion wells up within 
you and your comrades. 


Although this fellow looks just like the ratlings that the 
party has probably encountered in the rest of the keep, he 
is actually Keshute, a wererat. Thus, he is much more 
difficult to fight. 

The wererat will not spring into battle but instead will 
try to converse with the party. 

If the party simply attacks the wererat, he will do 
what he can to defeat the characters. His first action will 
be to blow a loud silver whistle that summons ld4 ratlings 
to aid him. These ratlings appear at a rate of one per 
round, entering through the door to Room 14. 

Keshute the Wererat: AG 5; HD 3; hp 18; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; THACO 17; Dmg ld4 (bite) or 
ld8 (scepter); Save as Fighter: 3; ML 8; AL C; 

XP 50; Treasure (see below). 

Ratlings (1-4): AC 7; HD 1; hp 4 each; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; THACO 19; Dmg ld4; Save as Nor 
mal Man; ML 9; AL C; XP 10; Treasure 2d6 gp. 

If the party speaks with the wererat, conversation 
will reveal that his name is Keshute and that he came to 
this land two years ago. He brought his subjects, the rat 
lings, with him from a distant land (he will say no more 
than that) and decided to take over this ruin when he 
found it. 

Shortly after his takeover, he was discovered by a pair 
of hunters who escaped the ratlings. Apparently, the 
hunters sent a band of adventurers back to destroy him. 
His ratlings attacked the adventurers and defeated them 
(if pressed, Keshute claims that the adventurers are dead, 
although this is not true). 

One of the adventurers wielded a sword that froze 
whatever it touched. Using a number of enchanted ob 
jects found in the ruins of Barrik's laboratory, Keshute 
created the frozen throne and encased the sword inside 
the ice, with the unexpected bonus of plunging the entire 
region into eternal winter. He now plans to drive out the 
human settlers in Torlynn and claim the entire valley as 
his own. 

Keshute's conversation with the characters is just a 


ploy. It has given his ratlings time to gather in the store 
room (Room 14). As soon as he has finished his story, he 
leaps to the attack. At the same time, four ratlings burst 
into the room and attack the party from behind. 

In combat Keshute attacks with his savage bite. Any 
human character who loses more than half of his or her hit 
points while in battle with Keshute will become a wererat 
in 2d 12 days unless cured by a high-level cleric. Demi- 
humans so afflicted and not cured will die instead of be 
coming a wererat. 

Keshute wears a bone crown that bestows an aura of pro 
tection on him (giving him an Armor Class of 5 instead of 
the typical AC 7 for wererats). Keshute can also use his 
bone scepter instead of making a biting attack. This mag 
ical weapon inflicts ld8 points of damage and delivers a 
powerful shock. Anyone hit by the scepter must save vs. 
paralysis or be unable to move during the next combat 
round. 

If Keshute is hit by wolfsbane, he must roll a successful 
saving throw vs. poison or run away in fear. (The sprig of 
wolfsbane must be swung or thrown as a weapon using 
normal combat procedures.) 

If Keshute is defeated, the heroes may take his crown 
and scepter. As soon as Keshute falls, ratlings left in the 
room will flee in fear. In addition to the crown and scep 
ter, Keshute has a coin pouch containing 10 platinum 
pieces in it. 

Retrieving the sword from the throne will be difficult. 
No attempt to melt the ice will succeed, for the aura of 
cold that pervades this room instantly prevents the ice 
from liquefying. Further, the mystical ice is as hard as 
steel and cannot be broken or chipped away. In fact, any 
thing that the players attempt to do at this point will fail. 
Only the elven characters in the cell next door (Room 16) 
can recover the sword. 

Room 16: Cell V 

-This cell is strewn with the bones of animals and 
men> JFour stout metal rings are set into the stone 
walls, with a, sturdy chain looped through each ring. 
The chains end in manacles fastened around the legs of 
four elves. The elves \yere frozen after having been 
chained up, for eaclj is encased in a sheath of ice some 
2 inches thick. >>adly, they appear dead. Based on the 
fact that the elves are wearing armor and carrying trav 
eling gear much like your own, it seems logical to as 
sume that these are the first adventurers sent to the 
keep by the burgomaster. 


13 





BARRiks keep 




These are, in fact, the adventurers who preceded the 
player characters. Although they certainly appear dead, 
they are still alive. In addition, any PCs who were frozen 
by the white widow in Room 6 and left for dead by the 
party will be here. Any large source of heat, whether a 
campfire or magical spell, can be used to melt the ice en 
casing the frozen adventurers, thus bringing them back to 
life. Reviving the characters here will take about half an 
hour per individual, during which time the heat must be 
maintained. 

Once the elves are freed from their icy shackles, they 
are very weak and need help just to walk about. The lead 
er of the elves, Elladin Silvercrest, expresses gratitude for 
their rescue. He explains that he and his company were 
ambushed and captured by the ratlings. For a while they 
remained imprisoned in the cell, plotting their escape. 
But then, one by one, they were sent to fight the white 
widow; alone each fell to its venomous bite. They know 
nothing more, for each was comatose while frozen. 

When Elladin is told of the curse and the sword frozen 
in the ice, he asks to be carried to the throne. (He will be 
too weak to walk that far.) The s word is his, he explains, 
and has been in his family for^ iundredfe of years. It.will 
answer his command, no matter what magic Keshute has 


woven around it. Because this is his sword and an heir 
loom, he will not accept any request that it be handed 
over to the players for their rescue of the elves. While he is 
quite grateful, such a price is unthinkable and only a sav 
age (in Elladin's mind) would expect so great a reward. 
The other elves, of course, will agree with him. 

When Elladin is brought before the icy throne, he holds 
out his hand to the sword and commands it to come to 
him. After a moment of stillness, cracks form in the sur 
face of the throne and a cry of agony seems to issue from 
the ice. Suddenly the sword bursts free from the frozen 
throne and flies through the air into Elladin's hand. In his 
weakened condition, the elf cannot support the weight of 
the weapon, and he collapses to the floor, holding the 
sword in his hands. 

As soon as Elladin has recovered the sword, the ice 
throne shifts and runs like water, though it remains fro 
zen. Slowly the hideous ice golem, for such it is, assumes a 
humanoid shape and rises up with a cry of anger and 
pain. Lumbering forward, it attacks the party. The elves 
are all unable to help Fight the monster, being too weak, 
so the player characters are on their own. If anyone tries 
to use Elladin's sword, the weapon constantly slips from 
his or her fingers, making the sword useless in combat. 

<*% 

Ice golem: AC 3; HD 3; hp.H5; MV 60' (20'); 

#AT 1; THACO 17; Drag ld8; Save as Fighter: 3; 

ML 12; AL N; XP 50; Treasure nil. 

Anyone hit by the ice golem must make a saving throw 
vs. paralysis or be affected by the creature's aura of cold. 
Anyone who fails this save will find his Dexterity reduced 
by one point due to the shivering and trembling that 
sweeps through his body. Each subsequent failed save re 
sults in an additional Dexterity reduction that may, be 
cause of the lowered ability score, reduce a character's 
armor class or attack roll with missile weapons and the 
like. The only way to reverse this chilling curse is through 
a resist cold spell. Each such spell cast restores one lost 
point of Dexterity. Only magic of this nature can restore 
the lost Dexterity points-time does nothing. 

If the ice golem is defeated, the curse on the valley is 
lifted. Over the next several days, the ice around the keep 
melts and the weather returns to normal. The characters 
are in for a hero's welcome when they return with the 
elves to Torlynn. 



14 


RetuRn to toRlynn 


Congratulations! The adventurers have survived the ter 
ror of Barrik's Keep, and now they can return to the vil 
lage of Torlynn. Wonderful things await the characters 
there. 

The People of Torlynn 

When the characters return to Torlynn after overcoming 
Keshute and lifting the curse from the valley, they are met 
with a throng of cheering townsfolk. Everywhere they go, 
someone wants to shake their hand, buy them a drink, 
present them with a gift, or (for those who have high Cha 
risma scores) reward them with kisses. 

Eventually, the burgomaster has a chance to personally 
greet the heroes. 


"My good friends!" the burgomaster cries upon see 
ing your party. "It is so good to see you again! I had 
feared you would all be killed by those monsters and 
that our town would be lost! I cannot tell you how hap 
py I am to be proven wrong. 

"Whatever happens, brave heroes, you will always 
have a home in Torlynn-a warm bed, good food and 
drink, and loyal friends. We will never be able to thank 
you enough." 


Gustovan is sincere about his invitation. The town of 
Torlynn will quickly return to the charming village it once 
was, and the characters will be more than welcome to use 
it as a base from which to adventure. 

The Elves 

The elves, like the good folk of Torlynn, are delighted the 
heroes have succeeded in freeing them from Keshute's 
evil clutches. Obviously, if the player characters had 
failed, the elven adventurers would have died. 

Although the elves are not as overflowing with praise as 
are the townsfolk, their gratitude nevertheless runs deep. 
They recognize a debt of honor when they see one. Thus, 
Elladin will see to it that the adventurers are properly re 
warded. 

After Elladin and his party are fully recovered (about a 
week after they return from the keep), he sends a message 
to the heroes inviting them to a feast in their honor. 

The meal is truly fabulous: a gift from the elves to their 
rescuers. Elladin and the other three elves look much bet 
ter than they did at the keep. 

As the main course is served, Elladin stands and offers 
the following toast. 


"My friends, you have done us a service that we 
cannot repay. Although the people of Torlynn have 
shown you their gratitude with parades and celebra 
tions, we elves are a quieter folk. This does not lessen 
our admiration for you. We drink to your health this 
evening and to a long friendship!" 


After the meal is completed, the elves reward the he 
roes with a gift of treasure. The DM is free to adjust the 
value of this gift as needed based on the attitudes of the 
player characters toward the elves. If they were abusive 
or made light of the elven defeat, this will be little more 
than a token. If they were noble in their dealings with the 
elves, it may be quite generous. Whatever the end deci 
sion of the DM, there should be enough treasure in the 
reward to raise every character to the next level if they 
have not accumulated enough experience points over the 
course of this adventure to do so. 

After the Adventure 

The DM now has several possibilities for future adven 
tures as well as colorful NPCs for campaigns. For exam 
ple, Burgomaster Gustovan could be developed into a 
patron who supports the heroes but who also thinks of 
them as his own personal troubleshooters. Or he could 
recommend them to friends who are in need of help. 

Elladin and his elves are another potential story source 
for the DM. They can help the heroes in a tight spot, act 
as a source of information, or even put the adventurers 
into contact with elven communities that need help. The 
elves may be inclined to be especially useful if one of the 
PCs is an elf. 



15 









new monsters 


Beetle, Spitting 

Armor Class: 

Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
Save as: 

Morale: 

Treasure Type: 
Alignment: 

XP Value: 


7 

1 

60' (20') 
1 

ld4 or spit acid 
1-4 

Normal Man 
9 
Nil 
Neutral 
13 


The spitting beetle is about 1 foot long and dark gray. It has two 
eyes that glow pale yellow in the dark. In combat, it can bite 
victims with its dangerous pincers or spit a stream of acid up to 
10 feet. Anyone hit by the beetle's spit suffers ld4 points of 
damage and permanently loses 1 point of Charisma. 


throw vs. paralysis or his Dexterity is reduced by 1 point due to 
the shivering and trembling that sweeps through his body. Each 
failed save results in an additional Dexterity reduction. The on 
ly way to reverse this effect is with a resist cold spell. Each such 
spell restores 1 lost point of Dexterity. Only magic of this nature 
can restore the lost points-time does nothing. 

Ratling 
Armor Class: 

Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 

Save as: 

Morale: 

Treasure Type: 

Alignment: 

XP Value: 


7 

1 

120' (40') 
1 

ld4 

1-4 

Normal Man 
9 

S(C) 

Chaotic 

10 


Golem, Armor 

Armor Class: 

Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
Save as: 

Morale: 

Treasure Type: 
Alignment: 

XP Value: 


2 

4 + 1 
60' (20') 
1 

ld6 

1 

Fighter: 4 
12 
Nil 
Neutral 
125 


Armor golems are magically animated suit armor or plate ar 
mor used by wizards as guardians. Like other golems, they can 
not be affected by sleep, charm, or hold spells and are immune to 
all manner of toxins and gases. Unlike other golems, these go 
lems can be harmed by nonmagical weapons. 


Ratlings are vile humanoids that have the fur and facial fea 
tures of rats. Their tiny black eyes give them infravision, which 
allows them to see up to 60 feet in dark areas. Ratlings defend 
themselves with daggers, clubs, and similar weapons or by bit 
ing and clawing. 

Spider, White Widow 

Armor Class: 

Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 

Save as: 

Morale: 

Treasure Type: 

Alignment: 

XP Value: 


6 

3 

120' (40') 
1 

2d4 + cryotoxin 
1 

Fighter: 3 
10 
B 

Neutral 

65 


Golem, Ice 
Armor Class: 
Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
Save as: 
Morale: 
Treasure Type: 
Alignment: 

XP Value: 


3 

3 

60' (20') 
1 

ld8 

1 

Fighter: 3 
12 
Nil 
Neutral 
50 


An ice golem is a magically animated statue carved from a 
block of ice. Anyone hit by the ice golem must make a saving 


The white widow is a horrible spider that lives in arctic and 
alpine regions of the world. The white widow's web is designed 
to whistle in the wind; anyone who hears the websong must 
save vs. spells or be lulled into a state of lethargy. In this state a 
character moves at half speed and strikes with a - 2 on attack 
rolls. The web is fragile, however, and any attack upon it that 
hits will shatter the web and free those who have fallen under its 
spell. The web is AC 9. 

Anyone bitten by the white widow must make a saving throw 
vs. poison or be instantly frozen solid. Frozen characters are 
still alive, however, though they might easily be mistaken for 
dead. The white widow keeps frozen prey around and thaws it 
out when she is hungry. 


16 










m 


* 


¦ >' * 






I342XX (I 


1992 TSR, Im 


All Rights Reserved 


niu.'i m vfVRwvw i "im vmmmmmi \ i 



i 

i 

L • • 


t \J 

* 1 

• ¦ % ] 

I ) * * 


\m 






* 

"jf 









P 



i 






' '.' <; V. tM 

mr 

9 

T5? 

.* •V>' J 
irrrsSi 

¦ 





i J&4 



r*. 

1 ;| 

|C|| £3 

Hl • ••* 1 



>"¦" aMs ^ 


r r; r "yr - .. j i ';, i 

r?m ., l J 

[| ;H ^ 


L 

*r 

* ""¦" 

..'Ilf ';i 

**- - 

- - tf* 

' £' 1 .***.•• "£>E 

. - .r- "¦*? 

y 

. ' .-.*> 


1 

it 

1 

¦ ' 

r", 

' 

,,J 

l 

Ifr 


K 


T/| 



Yt 

L i *•" < * v 


P > ^ i ' . ..'I 


.,' , r * ., * 


4f >¦•;¦¦¦•;,Vv. 

y $. ,:*m 


mk-- • 'i 




i 

1/ ••* 'itA 

|. v i r i' - ¦•'Vi-5 *1 

l "1 

b\:: ¦ : ~mh 

/] 

I ¦ 

fc v. •' t ? ; -J 

















































































































^it 




Official Game Advanture 


Quest for the Silver Sword 

by William W. Connors 

SCANNED BY: JACK D. KNIGHT 

Evil magic Is afoot! 


On what should be the hottest day of the year, snow blankets 
the tiny village of Torlynn. The winter weather wreaks Its havoc 
week after week, and the people of Torlynn are forced to abandon 
their homes. Only a few hardy souls remain In the village, one 
being Burgomaster Gustovan. 

So far the burgomaster's plans to save his town have failed, and 
now he has but one chance left to save his people. Gustovan seeks 
the aid of a band of young adventurers. If they can uncover the 
force lurking In the ruins of Barrlk's Keep and destroy the cause of 
the vile curse, all will be well again. If they fall, no one will be left 
alive In Torlynn to mourn them. 

Quest for the Silver Sword Is an Introductory module designed 
for use with the new DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) role-playing game. 
A specially designed Dungeon Master map makes this module easy 
to referee-even If you've Just opened the package! This adventure 
Is suited for a group of four to six characters of 2nd or 3rd level. 

Included In this package are a complete 16-page adventure, 16 
new color stand-up figures, and a beautiful full-color poster map 
outlining the dangers of Barrlk's Keep. 


TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End, Cherry Hinlon 
Cambridge C81 3LB 
United Kingdom 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva 
Wl 53147 USA 


DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and the TSR logo are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc 
(r)1992 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. Printed in the U.S.A. 



















































