Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09114 XL 1 Quest For The Heartstone"
See other formats

The icy cavern is deathly quiet. Strange light gleams from a frozen pool. Suddenly, a 
huge reptile thunders from the depths of the pool, sending glistening shards of ice 
in every direction, is this your final battle? For character levels 5-10. 


TSR, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS £, DRAGONS. DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, DSD. PRODUCTS OF YOUR 
IMAGINATION, 
STRQNGHEART, and WARDUKE are trademarks owned by TSR. Toe. 













Expert Game Adventure 


A Wilderness/Dungeon Adventure for Character Levels 5-10 



'¦juT-v). r //jan 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Notes for the Expert Dungeon Master 

PREPARING FOR THE QUEST 

About this adventure. 

Maps and illustrations, ............ 

Statistics and abbreviations ....... 

The party of adventurers ......... 

Adventure background. 

The story of the heartstone 
Beginning the adventure. ......... 


Fighting through the fog 

ADVENTURE IN THE SHADOWS OF THE MOUNTAINS 

Mists of the northern marsh...................._...... 

Perils of die icewater falls ... . 


Editor: Tim Kilpin 

Editorial Assistance: Andria Hayday 

Artist: Jeff Easley 

Graphic Designer: Kitty Thompson 
Maps: Diesel 


What evil lurks in the hearts of men? 

ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CEIFF 

Level I: The tunnels of death. 

Level II: Frost giants' lair. ...... . 

Level III: The wizard's home... 

Level IV: Home of the heartstone . , . .. 


Distributed to the book trade in the United Stales by 
Random Himitc, lnt." and in Canada by Random 
House of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to the toy and 
hobby trade by regional dinlribiKnrvH Distributed in 
the United Kingdom by TSR (UK) Lid. 


Additions to the family 
NEW MONSTERS 
DRAGONNE(tm) Monster 
Roper 

HOOK HORROR(tm) Monster 
Dragonfly.. 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS X DRAGONS, DUN 
GEONS & DRAGONS. D&D, and character and funn 
el cr names designated by TM are trademark* owned by 
TSR, Inc. 


Li Reserved. Printed in 


Player characters from LJN Toys 
PREROLLED CHARACTERS 
Lawful characters ........... 

Chaotic characters. 


This module ii protected under lhe copyright laws of 
the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
other unauthorised use of the material or artwork con 
tained herein is prohibited without the express written 
permission of TSR. Inc, 


TSR (UK) Ltd. 
Tiie Mill, Haihmorc Hoad 
Cambridge CB14AD 
United Kingdom 


TSR t Inc. 
FOB 756 
Lake Geneva. 
W153I47 


LIST OF TABLES & MAPS 


Table 1: Marsh Wandering Monsters 
Table 2: Fleeing Hobgoblins. 


booklet cover 
booklet cover 
booklet cover 
booklet cover 
booklet cover 
booklet cover 
booklet cover 


Map I: Mists of the Northern Marsh 
Map 2: Perils of the Icewater Falls . 
Maps 2a-2f: Cave Openings. ...... 

Map 3: The Tunnels of Death. 

Map 4: Frost Giants' Lair 

Map 5: The Wizard's Home. 

Map 6: Home of the Heartstone , , " 
Cliff Diagram.. ... 


ISBN 0-88038-111-6 
394-54000-XTSR0600 


9114 


Rcmuvr ihe center font pages and give them to the player* before the -nun of the iuLmiurr 



































PREPARING FOR THE QUEST 


About this adventure 

Quest for the Heartstone is a combined wil 
derness and dungeon adventure designed to 
be compatible with ihe official ADVANCED 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(tm) Action Toys 
produced bv LJN Toys. Ltd. * and the official 
ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRA 
GONS(tm) Fantasy Adventure Figures pro 
duced by TSR, Inc. Character statistics have 
been provided in the center of the booklet for 
many of the LJN player character figures. 
Players may also use their own characters for 
this adventure. 

Before beginning play, you should read the 
entire adventure carefully and become com 
pletely familiar with it. Most of the informa 
tion given in the area descriptions is for your 
eyes only, although you should read all boxed 
text to the players as their characters enter 
specific areas. Feel free to use your imagina 
tion to embellish the encounters as you wish. 
Make sure you don't give the players too 
many dues or suggestions, however, 

Unless a specific section directs otherwise* 
you should not roll for wandering monster 
encounters during this adventure. The char 
acters will meet plenty of monsters along the 
way. 

Maps and illustrations 

This adventure features several encounter 
maps and illustrations. Unless otherwise 
noted, do not show maps to the players. The 
maps are on the adventure cover. 

The numbered illustrations correspond to 
specific areas in the adventure. When the text 
di rects you to show the players a specific illus 
tration p turn to that page and Jet the players 
look ai the illustration. They may look at it as 
long as they like, as the illustrations some 
times hold clues that are not hinted at in the 
boxed text. Many of the numbered illustra 
tions are given in an eight-page pullout sec 
tion in the center of the booklet Be sure to 
cover the other illustrations on a page when 
showing players a certain picture. 

Statistics and abbreviations 

Monster statistics are listed in the following 
order: 

Monster/NFC Name (No appearing, if 
more than one): Armor Class; Hit 
Dice or Class/Level; hit points; Move 
ment per lurn (round); No, of attacks 
per round; Damage; Save As: Class/ 
Level; Morale; Alignment: Experi 
ence Point value; and abilities for 
NPCs (such a$ spells), when appropri 
ate. 


The following abbreviations are used in this 
ad yc mu re: 


AC 

- Armor Class 

hp 

- hit points 

#AT 

- no. of attacks 

Save 

- Save As 

AL 

- Alignment 

L 

- Lawful 

F 

- Fighter 

MU 

- Magic-user 

HD 

- Hit Dice 

MV 

- Movement 

D 

- Damage 

ML 

- Morale 

C 

- Chaotic 

N 

* Neutral 

T 

- Thief 

XP 

- Experience 


Point value 


The party of adventurers 

This adventure is designed for a party of 6-8 
characters. Each character should be 
between the 5th and 10th levels of experience 
when the adventure begins. The party should 
have a total of 45-55 levels, and should also 
include at least two clerics. You may wish to 
adjusL the strength of certain monsters and 
encounters, based on the makeup of the 
party. 

The party may be able to finish this adven 
ture in one session. If you feel the party is 
moving too quickly through the adventure, 
you may wish to make things a little more 


"difficult" for them. Be careful to give the 
characters a reasonable chance of surviving, 
however. Try to be impartial and fair, but 
give the characters the benefit of the doubt in 
extremely dangerous situations. 

Adventure background 

The story of the heartstone 

Sadness now reigns in the Kingdom of Ghyr 
Old King Gamo. known as the Great 
Defender of Peace, died in his sleep 2 weeks 
ago at the age of 82. Best known for his victo 
ries in die Prism Wars* Ganto ascended to the 
throne of Ghyr nearly 37 years ago, As the 
countries surrounding Ghyr fought among 
Lhemsdves, Ganto kept his northern king 
dom out of war. 

Having no legal heirs, Ganto thought 
much about who would be the logical succes 
sor to his throne. Unfortunately, he did not 
share his thoughts with his young queen. 
Queen Leahra, now in her mid*thirties, had 
always been a faithful and loving wife; she 
had often refused the affections of the ambi 
tious nobles of Ghyr. 

Now that the king was dead, Leahra found 
herself in the awkward position of having to 
appoint (and marry ) a new king. She called 
together the Royal Council to seek its advice. 
Some of the council members aspired to the 
throne themselves. Others had their own 
favorite candidates. The final decision, how r - 
ever, fell to the queen, who had m> desire to 
rule the kingdom alone. 






Queen Leahra, acting on her own, also 
called on her dose confidant* Loftos, the 
High Patriarch of Ghyr Leahra asked the 
patriarch to come to her chambers one night 
and discuss the question of the new king, 

"Political intrigue runs high tonight, my 
queen. 1 fear that the kingdom will be tom 
apart by political strife in the months ahead " 
advised Loftos. "Dark plots are being 
hatched at this moment-not only among the 
nobles, but also among Ghyr's neighbors " 

"But how can I choose? Must I share my 
life and more with a stranger? Loftos, my 
heart belongs only to Ganto" the queen 
replied. 

The old cleric offered to commune with He 
Who Watches in hopes of finding a solution to 
the crisis. Loftos snuffed all but one of the 
candles in the queen's chamber. He carried 
the single burning candle to the open win 
dow, placed it gently on the sill, and knelt 
before it. After Loftos blew out the flame, the 
queen could barely see him bow his head in 
prayer. 

Minutes later, Loftos relit the candle and 
carried it toward the queen. "A heart of 
stone, beyond the mist you'll find" Lottos 
said softly. "The hcartstone will tell you who 
should be your king." 

"But where is this stone? How will I find 
it?" the queen asked, 

"The stone was stolen over 50 years ago by 
Dahnakriss the Master Thief. He Who 
Watches originally gave the tiny, heart- 
shaped stone to Qasmar, who was the King of 
Ghyr during the Prism Wars. During these 
wars* Qasmar used the stone to see into the 
hearts of men, and was so able to choose his 
friends and allies. Soon after the war, the 
magical stone vanished from Gastle Ghyr's 
supposedly thief-proof vaults. Until now, no 
one knew what had become of the heartstone. 
According to He Who Watches, it lies north, 
In the great Mountains of Ice. 

"We must convince a party of adventurers 
to retrieve the stone and bring it back to us, 
But we must be very careful. No one must 
know of the stone's power* especially not 
those who would aspire to the throne. Even 
those we hire to find the stone should not 
know of its strength!" 

Beginning the adventure 

The patriarch calls the player characters to 
Castle Ghyr. He tells the characters only that 
they have been called in the queen's name, 
and that they will be discussing important 
royal business, 

Begin the adventure by reading the boxed 
text to the players. 



The Great Hall of Castle Ghyr rises 
majestically before you. Two acolytes hold 
open the heavy double doors in the north 
wall. The High Patriarch of Ghyr sweeps 
through the doors, followed by six royal 
guards. The queen berselT follows closely 
behind. The queen bids you to sit as the 
patriarch steps forward to speak. 

"Thank you for coming/ 1 he says. "We 
have a very important quest for those of 
you who are ^willing, You would set out to 
the north, heading into the Mists. In case 
you're not familiar with it, this vast, foggy 
marsh lies at the foot of the Mountains of 
Ice* You are to search for a magical, heart- 
shaped stone that we believe gives off a 
bright red light. We also believe that 
Dahnakriss the Master Thief currently 
possesses this stone. Through commune, I 
was able to determine dial the hcartstone 
lies within the mountain beyond the 
Mists. 

"If you succeed in this quest* ihe queen 
has authorized me to reward each of you 
wiih 10,000 gold pieces. As additional 
incentive* you are certainly welcome to 
any other treasures you might find during 
the quest," 


If the characters ask about the stone's power 
and value, the queen replies* "It once 
belonged to King Qasmar. We want to bury it 
in Gamo's tomb." 

The patriarch then continues* "The 
stone's powers are mostly unknown. We 
believe it may affect anyone who touches it, 
SO we are providing you with a pair of tongs 
with which to pick up the stone* and a lead 
coffer in which to carry it" 


The patriarch rises and tells those who 
wish to participate in the quest that they 
should assemble in the Great Hall at dawn 
the next day. 

At dawn the next day, the characters assem 
ble in the Great Hall. Royal servants provide 
fresh fruit and juices for the adventurers. 
Soon the patriarch enters and thanks the 
characters for agreeing to go on the queen's 
quest. Hr tells the characters that fresh horses 
and rations await them at the east gate. 
Before he sends them off, the patriarch gives 
the characters one last item. He slowly 
removes a gold ring from the index finger of 
his right hand. 

"This is a ring of spell storing I have had it 
for nearly half my life. If you return, I would 
like to have it hack 

"The ring contains two each of the follow 
ing spells: neutraJixe poison, raise dead* and 
stone to flesh." 

The cleric asks that he may pray for the 
characters' success. He bows his head, recites 
a litany of unrecognizable words, and then 
looks up at one of l he party's clerics. He 
hands the ring to this cleric and says* "Guard 
it well, ll may save your friends' lives." 

if the characters ask why the pat riarch did 
not use one of the raise dead spells on King 
Ganto, the patriarch replies that the king's 
natural time to die had come. 

An acolyte enters the room carrying a 
small pair of iron tongs and a small lead cof 
fer. He lays them on a table and leaves with 
out saying a word. 

"Good luck*" the patriarch tells the charac 
ters, "The queen's and my prayers go with 
you," 


3 






ADVENTURE IN THE SHADOW OF THE MOUNTAIN 


Characters must travel through two areas on 
their way to the mountains. The first is a 
misty marsh that tests the characters' 
strength and courage in battle. The second is 
a cliff face peppered with holes that lead into 
the heart of the cliff (and eventually to the 
heart of the adventure). 

Mists of the northern 

marsh 

(Use Map 1.) 

Traveling through the marsh 

Because of the mist and rain in this area, and 
because the trail leading through here takes 
many winding turns, the characters' horses 
must move slowly through the marsh. At 
some points, the trail is only wide enough for 
one horse. Use your judgment about the 
I rail's width when characters get into a sticky 
situation. 

If the characters try to leave Lhe path, the 
lead horses begin to sink in quicksand. If the 
characters do not return to the path, they lose 
their lead horses in the quicksand (the riders 
are able to escape the quicksand, however). 

Wandering monsters in the marsh 

If the characters decide to spend the night 
somewhere in the marsh, roll for wandering 
monsters every 4 hours (see Table 1) 


TABLE 1 

MARSH WANDERING MONSTERS 

Die 


Roll 

Monster 

1-2 

White Dragonflies (6): AC 2; HD 
3; hp 18 each; MV 60' (20') on 
land* 240' (80') flying; #AT bite 
?breath; D 1-6 + 3 (cold damage); 
Save F3; ML 8; AL N; XP 35 

3-4 

Ghouls (8): AC 6; HD 2*; hp 12 
each; MV 90' (30'); #AT 2 daws/ 
I bile; D 1*3/1-3/1-3 * paralysis; 
Save F2; ML 9; ALC; XP 25 

5-6 

Troglodytes(8): AG 5; HD 2*; hp 
12 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 2 
daws/1 bite; D 1-4/1-4/1*4: Save 
F2; ML 9; ALC; XP 30 

7-8 

Hobgoblins (12): AC 6; HD 1*1; 
hp 6 each; MV 90' (30'); #AT 1 
weapon; D by weapon; Save Fl; 
ML 8 or 10; ALC; XP 15 


If the action bogs down, or if the party 
spends too much time searching for treasure, 
have the characters encounter six white drag- 
onllics. For a complete description of these 
monsters, turn to the New Monsters section 
at the end of the adventure. 

Combat in the marsh 

Because of the rain and mud in the marsh, 
characters suffer a -1 penalty on their hit rolls 
as long as they stay in the marsh. 

During any combat, roll for morale each 
round, and reduce the monsters' morale by 1 
each round. As soon as the monsters fail their 
morale check, they stop lighting the charac 
ters anti run back to their lair. 

There is a 50% chance that monsters in the 
marsh attack a mounted character's horse 
instead of the character. If a horse loses more 
than half of its hit points, it throws its rider 
and uses its hooves to defend itself. 

Riding Horse: AC 7; HD 2; hp 12; MV 240' 
(80') - Vz speed in mud; #AT 2 hooves; 
D 1-4/1-4; Save Fl; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 

Encounter key 
L RIDING INTO THE MARSH 


The journey through the eastern forest 
passed quietly. Now, the wind is still, and 
heavy- clouds have darkened the afternoon 
sky. The forest slowly gives way to a vast 
marshland. The trail from the lores* leads 
into a sea of tall grass and thick fog. 
Patches of mist hug the ground, and the 
Mountains of Ice stand in the distance, 
The cries of marsh birds and the croaking 
of frogs come from all directions. 

Slowly rain begins to fall. The tails of 
giant leeches and snakes occasionally 
slither across the trail and wind into the 
marsh. 

As the trail twists inward, the fog grows 
thicker, finally, a stone bridge rises above 
the mist, offering the first sign that more 
than animals Jive in this bleak swamp. 


Show the players Illustration 1. The stone 
bridge is one of four bridges that dot the 
marsh These bridges arc quite sturdy. 

Characters cannot use a boat in this marsh, 
because fresh water termites have infested the 
marsh. If any character enters the waters of 
the marsh, two termites instantly spray him, 
A sprayed character musi make a saving 
throw vs, poison or he paralyzed for 1 rum. It 
a character is paralysed, he falls into the 
water and drowns if others do not save him, 


Fresh Water Termites (2 or more): AC 6; HD 
2*1; hp 12 each; MV 120' (40'); #AX 
spray or bite: D paralysis or 1-4; Save 
F2; ML 8; AL N; XP 25 

2* LAIR OF GHOULS 


The rotting carcass of a giant leech lies in 
a small clearing to the right of the trail, 
Two dark figures scramble off the top of 
the leech and disappear into the marsh 
grasses. 


'lwelve ghouls attack Lhe characters as soon as 
they move through this clearing. 

Ghouls (12): AC 6; HD 2*; hp 12 each; MV 
00' (30 # ); #AT 2 daws/1 bite; D 1-3/1- 
3/1-3 * paralysis; Save F2; ML 9; AL 
C; XP 25 

These ghouls carry no treasure, but they do 
have treasure hidden in their lair. Characters 
have a 1 in 6 chance of finding the lair (elves 
have a 2 in 6 chance). Each searching charac 
ter may check only once. 

The ghouls' treasure includes 3*241 cp, 
seven pieces of jewelry worth a total of 750 
gp, a shield */, and a small lead box contain 
ing a heart-shaped stone. The stone gives ofT 
a yellow glow, and is magical. Touching the 
stone negates the effects of paralysis. It has 6 
charges left, 

3, MAZE OF TROGLODYTE LAIRS 


A second stone bridge lies ahead, rising 
above the mists that hug the marsh 
ground. A foul stench hangs in die air 
near this bridge. Beyond the bridge, the 
trail leads to a four-w*ay intersection. The 
skull of a goblin is set on a stake near the 
right path. The skull of a troll rests on a 
pile of rocks near the left path. Straight 
ahead, a dozen sharpened stakes stick out 
of the muddy trail. The trail ahead is 
wider than the trails to the left or right. 


The characters must remove some af the 
stakes from the path ahead of them if they 
want to go in that direction. The rain has 
made the stakes easy to remove. 

No matter which trail the characters take, 
they eventually come upon troglodyte lairs. 
These family lairs are scattered along the 
many branching paths. Each lair appears as a 
15-foot clearing. The soggy remains of a 
campfire lies in the center of each clearing. 
Various bones are strewn about. 


4 







ADVENTURE IN THE SHADOW OF THE MOUNTAIN 


Troglodytes (12): AG 5; HD 2*; hp 12 each; 

L MV 120' (40'); MT 2 daws/1 bite: D 
1 -4/1 -4/1 -4; Save F2; ML 9; ALC; XP 
30 

You may use the Troglodyte Adventure Fig 
ure produced by TSR. Inc. for this encoun 
ter. 

Once the characters have fought two families 
of troglodytes, the other troglodytes in the 
area know that something is wrong. They 
gather up their belongings and hide in the 
marsh. They do not attack the characters 
anymore. 

The troglodytes carry no treasure, but they 
have buried some treasure in their lairs. The 
characters have a 1 in 6 chance of finding the 
treasure (elves - 2 in 6). Each character may 
search only once, 

The first troglodyte treasure the characters 
find contains 369 gp and one 500 gp gem. 
The second treasure contains 2,483 sp, a 500 
gp gem, four 100 gp gems, and a crude map 
of the maze. Show the players Illustration 2 if 
they find the second troglodyte treasure. The 
runes in this illustration spell the word 
^map" in Troglodyte, 

4, THE GIGANTIC MARSH 

CREATURE 


Just past a third bridge, the trail begins to 
arc slowly to the right, skirting the west 
ern half of a very large pond. The falling 
rain is all that disturbs the pond's surface. 
A screech suddenly splits the air as a 
three-headed, flying monster glides 
toward you over the surface of the pond. 
The creature has the heads of a lion, a 
goat, and a dragon. Seconds later, a 
gigantic, translucent crocodile head 
bursts from the depths of the pond. Then 
two giant basilisk head# on long, snakdike 
necks rise out of the marsh pond to the 
south. Behind them, a large orb covered 
with eyeballs on short tentacles pops up 20 
feet out of the water. 


Have the characters roll for surprise as soon 
as they see the crocodile head. Show the play 
ers Illustration 3. 

All of the monster heads are pan of an 
insane water elemental that can change its 
great shape to any form. It sits in this pond 
feeding on whatever comes near. Most of the 
elemental remains underwater, A chimera 
files overhead just as die elemental rises from 
the pond. 

On the bust round, the basilisk heads 
attack the party. The crocodi le head snaps the 


three-headed chimera out of midair and pulls 
it underwater. As soon as the elemental takes 
30 points of damage, it pulls its appendages 
back underwater and disappears. 

Water Elemental (1): AC -2; HD 16; hp 89; 
MV 60' (20'}; #AT 2 bites; D 2-12/2- 
12; Save F15; ML 10; AL N; XP 0 
Only magic and magical weapons can harm 
this monster. Charm monster and cloudkill 
do not affect it. 

5. HOBGOBLIN LAIR 


The trail leads northeast, as the land to the 
left of the trail rises slowly. The fog con 
ceals ihe land's true height. The smell of 
roast meat 11 oats across the trad from the 
northeast, and the sound of clamoring and 
gruff conversation rises through the reeds 
ahead, 


If the party scouts or rides ahead, they see the 
following: 


The trail leads into a large clearing thai 
sits next to a rock-strewn cliff. The trail 
cuts through the middle of the clearing 
and leads out on the other side. Six crude* 
three-sided huts stand around the clear 
ing. Smoke rises out of the huts* chim 
neys. 


Twenty-four hobgoblins live in this area. The 
hobgoblins sound the alarm and attack as 
soon as they sec the characters. They carry 
dubs and knives. 

Hobgoblins(24): AC 6; HD 1*1; hp beach; 

MV 90' (30*); #AT 1 weapon; D by 

weapon; Save FI: ML 8 or 10; AL C; 
XP 15 

After 2 rounds of battle , some of the hobgob 
lins run away Ask the players if their charac 
ters continue to light, or if they stop to watch 
the fleeing hobgoblins. Any character who 
stops to watch cannot attack that round. If a 
hobgoblin is attacking that character, how 
ever, the creature gets a +4 on hit rolls against 
that character. Roll on Table 2 tor any charac 
ter who watches fleeing hobgoblins. 


TABLE 2 

FLEEING HOBGOBLINS 

Die 


Roll 

Character sees . , * 

i -2 

hobgoblin fleeing into marsh 

3-4 

hobgoblin run north up the hill 

5-6 

hobgoblin hide behind a rock 


If a character searches behind the rock, the 
hobgoblin is gone. If the character success 
fully searches for a secret door, he finds the 
hobgoblin king's cave (area 5a). 

If the characters capture and question any 
hobgoblins, the creatures claim to know 
nothing, but they do say that the king might 
know. If characters promise a hobgoblin free 
dom. the creature tells the characters where 
they can find the king. 

Characters may find a hidden cache in the 
camp that contains 1,500 gp. four 100 gp 
gems, and four potions of heating. The hob 
goblins have dug an 8-fool by 15-fom hole 
near the eastern end of the camp. The trap is 
10 feet deep. Sharp spikes line the walls and 
fioor of the pit. These spikes kill any horse 
that falls into the pit There is a 2 in 6 chance 
that the spikes do 10 points of damage U> a 
character 

5a. Hobgoblin king's cave 


The rocky door swings inward. The sound 
of scurrying animals, mingled with the 
sound of growling and gnashing teeth ech 
oes off the walls. A sputtering torch dimly 
lights the small cave. A hobgoblin, 
dressed in chain mail and holding a dan 
gerous-looking sword, stands in a roiwr 
by a bed. The growling erupts into snarls 
as four large creatures leap forward 


The hobgoblin wearing the chain mail is the 
hobgoblin king. As soon as the characters 
enter his cave, he retreats to his private cave 
("'X" on Map I). Four thouls act as the 
king's bodyguards. 

Hobgoblin Kmg: AG 6; HD 5; hp 22; MV 
90* (30*); tfAT I weapon; D by 
weapon *1; Save F5; ML 10. AL G; 
XP 15 

The king wields a sword *1. 

Thouls (4); AC 6; HD 3**; hp 18 each; MV 
120* <40"); #AT 2 daws; D 1-3/1-3 - 
paralysis; Save F3; ML 10; ALC; XP 
65 








ADVENTURE IN THE SHADOW OF THE MOUNTAIN 


Ef the characters capture and question the 
king, he reluctantly tells them about an 
amazing human who wears a glowing red 
slonc around his neck. The king tells the 
characters that this strange man has visited 
him several times. The man has asked the 
hobgoblins to watch for and kill any strangers 
that travel through the marsh. In return, the 
man has given the king good food and many 
gifts. The king explains (hat the man is a 
friend of the giants that live in the face of the 
dliT 

The hobgoblin king keeps a chest hidden 
under his bed. The chest is trapped with a 
poison needle. Inside the chest are pieces of 
jewelry worth a total of 2,000 gp, a scroll of 
protection from elemental^, and <t potion of 
unde ad control. 

6. THOUL LAIR 


A fourth bridge comes into view ahead as 
the trail winds lazily toward the southeast. 
A faint rumbling rolls far in the dislam e to 
the north. Eight large creatures burst sud 
denly from the cover of the marsh and 
attack savagely. 


The attacking creatures are thouls. 

Thouls (8): AC 6; HD3 M ; hp 18 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 2 claws- D 1-3/1-3 * 
paralysis; Save F3; ML 10* ALC; XP 
65 

Hidden in the Lhoul lair is a cache containing 
2,437 sp, pieces of jewelry worth a total of 350 
gp, four pollans of healing, and a scroll of 
water breathing. 

7. TROLL POND 


The trail winds slowly to lhe northeast. 
The marsh turns muddier as the rain con- 
tintaes to fall. Many small ponds lie to the 
sides of the trail. Up ahead, large bubbles 
rise to the surfaces of the ponds. Just as 
another bubble plops, three huge, filthy 
creatures burst from the grass by the trail. 


Roll for surprise when the trolls attack. 
Before attacking the characters, these vile 
creatures sink their claws into the three 
horses nearest them . 

Trolls (3): AC 4; HD 6-3*; hp 30 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 2 daws/1 bite; D 1-6/1- 
6/MO; Save F6; ML 10 (3); AL C; XP 
650 


You may use the TERRIBLE TROLL* 
Adventure Figure produced by TSR t Inc, for 
this encounter 

The troll lair contains the following treasure: 
3 t 244 gp, eight 100 gp gems, a swoiri +1, 
leather armor +1. and a small lead box. Inside 
the box is a small, heart-shaped stone that 
gives off a blue glow. Any character who 
touches lhe stone is fully healed. The stone 
has 3 charges left. 

If the characters manage to start a normal 
fire in this area, the marsh gases in the ponds 
explode, doing 6d6 points of damage to all 
creatures that fail to make saving throws vs. 
spells. Because of the rain, the characters 
have a difficult time starting a fire here. If 
any character casts a firebaJI spell, however, 
the exploding gases do 12d6 points of damage 
to all creatures that fail to make a saving 
throw vs. spells. 

If the characters do a great deal of damage 
to the trolls, they are able to leave Lhis area 
before the trolls regenerate. The trolls are 
fully healed (and even meaner), however, if 
the characters pass through this area on the 
journey back to Castle Ghyr. 

8, GRIFFONS OF THE NORTHERN 
SKIES 


The trail leads gradually uphill Lo the 
northeast- The winds carry faint rum 
blings from the west. Thick mists shroud 
the marsh. 

The trail eventually ends at a "T* 5 
intersection. One trail leads to the north 
west; the other leads to the southeast. The 
sound of flapping wings rises from the 
north and draws closer, Screeching 
winged creatures suddenly Till the sky 
above. The creatures circle once and then 
descend. 


Griffons (12): AC 5; HD 7; hp 42 each; MV 
120' (40'} on land, 360' (120') Dying; 
#AT 2 claws/1 bite; D 1-4/1-4/2-16; 
Save F4; ML 8; AL N; XP 450 

The griffons attack, trying to take the charac 
ters' horses, but not the characters themsel 
ves. There is a 50% chance that, whenever a 
character is hit by a griffon, the character is 
knocked off his horse. The griffons automati 
cally catch any riderless horses, carrying 
them off to the west . The griffons do defend 
themselves if the characters attack them. 
Once the griffons have all of the characters' 
horses, however, they leave the party alone. 

If the characters follow- Ehe eastern path, 
they find their way blocked by an avalanche. 


9 . ABANDONED CABIN 


The trail winds around to the northwest, 
skirting a cliff face to the north that rises 
higher and higher as the trail twists fur 
ther along. The sound of a waterfall thun 
ders in the distance. Just ahead, a small 
log cabin sits on the trail's right side. No 
light comes from Us windows, and no 
smoke rises from its chimney Cobwebs 
hang over the rotting porch. 

Just beyond the cabin, the trail leads 
downward into a massive patch of dense 
fog. 


Two giant crab spiders Jive in this cabin. On a 
roll of 1-4 on ld6, they surprise the first char 
acter who enters the cabin. 

Giant Crab Spiders (2): AC 7; HD 2*; hp 12 
each: MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 bite; D I- 
8 * poison (victims get *2 on their saving 
throws); Save Pi; ML 7; AL N; XP 25 

These spiders have no treasure. 

The cabin is very dirty, but it provides the 
characters with a safe place to spend the night 
(if, of course, they have defeated the spiders). 
The characters are only able to spend one 
night here, however If they return to the 
cabin a second night, they find h has burned 
to the ground. 



6 


Illustration 1 









ADVENTURE IN THE SHADOW OF THE MOUNTAIN 


Perils of the icewater falls 

(Use Map 2.) 

Exploring the cave openings 

If characters follow the trail that runs to the 
northwest past the cabin at area 9, they find 
themselves at the foot of a cliff face. An arrow 
on Map 2 that points to area 9 shows the rela 
tionship of Map 2 to Map 1. 

This dilT face is sheer. In most cases, char 
acters cannot leave the trail, which lias been 
cut into the side of the cliff. Characters can 
not ride horses on these rocky trails. Charac 
ters may climb vines to reach a cave opening, 
however, or they may use magic to reach an 
opening. 

The rocky trail is wet and slippery, but the 
air at the foot of this cliff is not cold enough to 
freeze the trails. 

Encounter key 

10. FOOT OF THE CLIFF 


Patches of fog float through the area. A 
waterfall thunders nearby. The trail has 
become very' wet and slippery. Soon, the 
trail gives way to wide ledge that hugs the 
Foot of a cliff. 

To the west, a great waterfall cascades 
down from hundreds of feet above. The 
spray from the falls is icy cold. Straight 
ahead, a huge cliff rises into the mists. 
Cave openings riddle the face of the cliff. 


Show the players Map 2. The characters 
must now choose which cave opening they 
want to explore first. To reach area 13, they 
must climb 50 feet up a pile of boulders to a 
ledge that leads to the cave mouth, lb reach 
other cave openings, characters can cither 
follow the trail, climb vines, or use magic. 

If the characters make a great deal of noise, 
or if they spend more than 5 minutes deciding 
what to do, six dire wolves emerge from area 
10a and attack the characters (see area 10a 
for dire wolf statistics). 

10a. Dire wolves' den (Map 2a) 

If characters walk by this cave opening, six 
dire wolves emerge and attack. If characters 
stop and stand before the opening, read the 
following boxed text to the players. 


Many dogltke animal tracks lead in and 
out of this 6-foot-wide cave opening. The 
sound of snarling draws closer to the 
opening, and six large wolves suddenly 
leap from the darkness. 


The characters may already have fought 
these creatures (see Exploring the Cave 
Openings above), 

Dire Wolves (6): AC 6; HD 4*1; hp 24 each; 
MV 150' (50'); #AT 1 bite; D2-B; Save 
F2; ML 8; AL N; XP 125 


11. LOWER CAVE 


Several muddy pathways lead out into the 
marsh from this opening. Some of the 
paths have been used recently. Claw- 
tracks lead into the cave. A fetid odor 
pulses out of the opening, almost as if the 
cave were breathing. 


If characters enter this cave opening, they see 
a tunnel that winds back Into darkness. This 
tunnel leads to Level I: The Tunnels of Death 
(areas 19-42). 


12. ENTRANCE TO THE FROST 
GIANTS' LAIR 

If characters enter this cave, go to area 43 of 
Level II; Frost Giants' Lair (Map 4), 


13. MANTICORES* LAIR (Maps 2b, 2c) 


This tunnel is dark and cold. The tunnel 
ascends slowly as it leads back. The walls 
are rough and cold. The passageway is 6 
feet wide. 


The tunnel runs for 100 feet, and then ends at 
a 20-fbot-high wall. When characters have 
moved 40 feet into the runnel, they notice the 
wall, but as they move closer (another 10 
feet), they see that a cave opens up above the 
wall. 

At this point, the characters hear the flap 
ping of wings. If they look at the top of the 
''wall " the characters see two pairs of human 
eyes staring down at them. Two manticores 
lie in the cave above the "waIL M As they peer 
over the edge, they ready their spiked tails for 
a dean shot at the characters. As soon as the 
characters have moved 60 feet into the passa 
geway, the manticores shoot their spikes at 
the characters. Each spike has a chance of hit 
ting one random character. 

Manticores (2): AC 4; HD 6+1 *; hp 45; MV 
120' (40') on land, 180' (60' ) flying; 
#AT 2 daws/1 bite or 6 spikes; D 1-4/1- 
4/2-8 or 1-6 each; Save F6; ML 9; AL 
C; XP 650 


The manticores fire six spikes each for 4 
rounds. Then they attack, using their daws 
and teeth. If the characters retreat, the mam 
ticores follow them until the manticores fail a 
morale check. 

An alcove in the west end of the manti 
cores' lair is the receiving end of a teleporter 
located at area 21 

Characters may find the manticores 1 trea 
sure under a bed of dry marsh grass along the 
north wall. The treasure includes 459 gp, 
four 50 gp gems, and two potions of healing. 


14. WHITE DRAGON'S LAIR (Map 2d) 


Ice covers the walls, floor, and ceiling of 
this frigid cave. The tunnels in the cave 
are 20 feet wide and 20 feet high. 

Forty feet into the cave, the floor gives 
way to a frozen pool that glows dimly. A 
great mound of ice lies beyond the far 
edge of the pool. The ice mound slowly 
begins to turn around. A large, white rep 
tilian head looms up from the mound, and 
says, '"Argon! We have uninvited 
guests! 11 

A gruff voice,, booming from around 
the comer, answers the first, "Are they 
coming for dinner or were they just leav 
ing?" 


The characters have entered the lair of a 
white dragon. The ice on the pool is strong 
enough to support the characters 1 weight. 

The dragon is the only creature in the lair 
when Lhe characters enter. The dragon uses 
ventriloquism to make the characters think 
He is not alone. 

If the characters leave immediately, the 
dragon does not pursue them. However, if 
the characters try to talk to the dragon, it 
becomes angry and gives the characters the 
option of leaving. If the characters attack the 
dragon, or if any character utters any magical 
words, the dragon breathes a cone of cold that 
does 40 points of damage to anyone within 
range (standing on the pool of ice). Chara* - 
ters who make successful saving throws vs. 
dragon breath suffer 20 points of damage. 
T he dragon uses its cone of cold even if the 
characters do no more than step ulT the ice- 
covered pool toward it. 

White Dragon: AC 3; HD 6**; hp 4U; MV 
90' (30') on land, 240' (80') flying; 
#AT 2 claws/1 bite or breath; D 1-4/1- 
4/2-16 or special, Save F6; ML 8; AL 
N; XP 725 

Spells. First Level: charm person, 
detect magic, ventriloquism 


7 







ADVENTURE IN THE SHADOW OF THE MOUNTAIN 


If the characters seriously wound the dragon, 
and if the dragon fails its morale check, the 
dragon tries to Jly away over the characters 1 
heads. 

If the characters investigate further into 
the dragon's lair, read the following boxed 
text 10 the players. 


Around the comer to the southwest, a 30- 
foot-Icmg, dimly lit tunnel leads into a 
brightly Ht cavern. The air grows colder 
and colder as the tunnel leads closer to the 
light. The tunnel opens up into a frigid, 
oval-shaped cavern. Huge icides hang 
like stalactites from the ceiling. A frozen 
pond covers the cavern's floor. An eerie 
glow comes from beneath the ice of this 
pond, lighting up the cavern Beyond the 
pool, the tunnel appears to continue ro the 
south. 


If characters scrape the surface of the pond, 
they discover that treasure is frozen at the 
bottom of the 6-fom-deep pool. A continual 
light gem illuminates the pool. As soon as the 
characters try to cm through the ice, or if they 
try to walk across it, read the following boxed 
text to the players. 


The ice on the pond begins to crack. 
Stalagmites and stalactites crack, tall, and 
shatter on the pond's surface. Seconds 
later, the pond erupts* sending shards of 
ice flying in all directions. A flash of white 
surges up through the ice as cold water 
rushes out over the pond's surface. 

A blast of searing cold Alls the cavern, 
and a six-legged reptile slithers out of the 
pond onto the ice. It approaches slowly, 
then rears up on its hind legs to attack. 


As long as this frost salamander is alive, each 
character within 20 feet of the creature takes 
ld8 points of cold damage per round. If the 
salamander fails a morale check, it dives 
beneath the pond surface and lies still at the 
bottom, as if it were dead. If the characters 
then try to recover die treasure at the bottom 
of the pond, the salamander attacks again. 

Frost Salamander: AC 3; HD 12*; hp 88; 
MV 120' (40 ')¦ #AT 4 claws/1 bite * 
cold; D 1-6 per claw/2-12 * 1-8; Save 
F12; ML 9; AL C; XV 1,900 


An underground passageway connects this 
pond with the first frozen pond in the lair. 
The salamander can swim freely between the 
two ponds, and. if it is still alive, it makes one 
final attack on the characters at the first pond 
as lhey leave lhe lair. In this fmai attack, the 
salamander fights to the death. 

The treasure beneath the second frozen 
pool includes 3,241 cp, 4,255 sp, B2 ep" 673 
gp, 301 pp, chain mail */, and a ring of pro 
tection *!. Any character who goes in the 
water of this pond suffers ld4 points of cold 
damage per round. 

A small treasure room lies to the south of 
the second pond. The white dragon keeps its 
treasure here. The dragon's hoard includes 
806,231 cp, 87,115 sp, 7,340 gp, a wand of 
secret door detection (12 charges), a staff of 
healing, three potions of healing 1 one poison 
potion, a sword *2, and several nonmagical 
wands, weapons, and staves* Characters 
must use a detect magic spell to tell the magi 
cal items from the other items. 


15, DRAGONNES' CAVE 

If characters climb the vines that lead to this 
cave opening, the DRAGONNE(tm) Monsters 
that live here emerge and roar* 

All characters within 120 feet of the Dra- 
gonnes must make a staving throw vs. dragon 
breath or flee in fear for 2 rounds. The Dra- 
gonnes* roars deafen any characters within 
30 feet. These characters suffer a -2 penally to 
their hiL rolls for 2d6 rounds (no saving 
throw). The Dragonnes roar once every 3 
rounds. A character who stays within 30 feet 
of the Dragormes after they roar again does 
not suffer any additional hit roll penalty. The 
Dragonnes cannot bite the same round they 
roar. 

Dragonncs (2): AC 3; HD 8*; hp 50; MV 

150 * (50*); #AT 2 claws/ 1 bite or roar; 

D I-6/1-6/4-24 or special; Save F8; 
MLS; AL N; XP 1,200 

You may use the DRAGONNE(tm) Monster 
produced by LJN Toys, Lad, for this encoun 
ter. For a complete description of these mon 
sters, tum to the New Monsters section at the 
end of the adventure. 

The Dragotmes' roars alert Dahnakriss the 
Master Thief, who now knows that intruders 
are near. 

If characters continue into the Dragonnes* 
cave, they find a tunnel that leads out of the 
north wall of the cave. This tunnel leads to 
areas 54 and 55 on Level III; The Wizard's 
Home. 


8 


16, CHIMERAE LAIR (Map 2e) 


The tunnel that leads into this cave winds 
for 50 feet before it empties into a large- 
cavern. A 10-foot-wide alcove stands to 
the right of the cavern. The cavern itself in 
20 feet long and 20 feet wide. The strange 
light of twelve eyes glimmers in rhe dim 
cave. Two goats, two lions, and two drag 
ons stare out from the center of the cav 
ern* 


This cavern is the home of two chimerae. 
Each creature has the heads of three different 
animals; a goat, a lion, and a dragon. Each 
also has the forebody of a lion, the hindquar 
ters of a goat, and the wings and tail of a 
dragon. 

if the characters stop to investigate the 
alcove, the monsters rush out and attack from 
behind They attack as many of the charac 
ters as they can at one time, 

Chimerae (2): AC 4; HD 9* 4 ; hp 58 each; 
MV 120* (40 r ) on land, I80 r (60') 
flying; #AT 2 ciaws/goathead butt/lion 
fangs/dragon bite or breath; D 1-3/I- 
3/2 8/1-10/3-12 or 3-18; Save F9; ML 
9; AL C; XP 2,300 

You may use the Chimera Bendable Monster 
produced by TSR, Inc. for this encounter. 

The chimerae hide their treasure at the bot 
tom of an icy, 5-foot-deep pool at the far end 
of the lair. One of the dragon-heads melts the 
tee so that the monsters can throw their trea 
sure to the bottom. Then the pool freezes 
back up. The pool contains 244 sp, 528 gp, 
330 pp. a shield *2, two poison potions (fro 
zen, but still usable), and a cursed sword -2. 
The character who uses the cursed sword will 
think it is +2, and, until the curse is removed, 
is compelled to use the sword in combat. 
Once the curse is removed, die sword is *2 
The alcove in the lair is the receiving end of 
a teleporter located at area 22. 

17- CARRION CRAWLER 

The cave opening here winds back 21) feet 
and empties into a 30-foot by 30-fooi cave. 
The ceiling is 12 feet high. 

As soon as characters enter the cave from 
the tunnel, a carrion crawler creeps forward 
to attack. 

Carrion Crawler; AC 7; HD 3+1*; hp 20; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 8 tentacles: D 
paralysis; Save F2; ML 9; AL N; XP 75 

You may use the CARRION CRAWLER(tm) 
Bendable Monster produced by TSR, Inc. 
for this encounter. 






ADVENTURE IN THE SHADOW OF THE MOUNTAIN 


The crawler has 200 gp and three 50 gp gems 
in its lair. There is nothing else in this cave. 

IB. CAVE OF THE DRAGONFLIES (Map 
2f) 


A corridor of rough-hewn rock narrows 
slightly as it winds inward. After 40 feet* 
the corridor opens into a roughly circular 
cavern, The sound of buying grows 
louder and louder as dozens of colorful 
dragonflies fill the ain Each of the crea 
tures b at least 3 feet long. 


The dragonflies immediately attack the char 
acters. 

Dragonflies (12): AC varies; HD** varies; 
MV 60' (20') on land* 240' (80 ') fly 
ing; #AT 1 bite * 1 breath; D 1-6 * var 
ies; Save varies; ML varies; AL N; XP 
varies 

Statistics for these creatures vary, depending 
on the color of the dragonfly Four of the 



attacking dragonflies are white (hp 18 each)- 
two arc red (hp 36 each), two are blue (hp 26 
each)* two are green (hp 24 each), and two 
are black (hp 20 each). For a complete 
description of these creatures, turn to the 
New- Monsters section at the end of the 
adventure. 

Inside the cavern, the characters find the 
remains of several unlucky adventurers. 
Atnong the debris is a pouch containing 14 
ep, 89 gp T and 21 pp A gold ring nests on the 
hand of one skeleton. The ring is cursed. If a 
character puts the ring on, he comes under 
the influence of a shw spell. The character 
cannot remove the ring or negate the spelt's 
effects until the curse is removed. 

If the characters search for a secret door 
they find a hidden alcove along the northwest 
wall of the cavern. lit this alcove, the charac 
ters find a ring of fir? resistance, four potions 
of healing, anti a faded piece of parchment. 
Show- the players Illustration 4 if the charat - 
ters find the parchment, The parchment 
show's the wellevaton which is explained in 
area 41, 











ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


Dahnakriss the M aster Thief makes his home 
in the hean of this clIlT in the Mountains of 
Ice, There are four levels to Dahnakriss' 
home. See the Cliff Diagram for the relation- 
ship of the levels to one another. 


The tunnels of death 

(Use Map 3.) 

Water and oil seep into t hese tunnels, making 
the floors and walls slick. Each rime a charac 
ter walks through an oily area (marked by 
cross-hatches on the map), there is a 1 in 6 
chance that he falls and becomes covered with 
oil. 

If the Dragonnes alert Dahnakriss that 
intruders arc in his home, Dahnakriss lights 
oil fires in areas 25. 28, and 31 to smoke the 
characters out. If a character's boots are oily 
and he is caught in a fire, he takes ld4 points 
of damage before the fire burns out. Oil- 
soaked characters who get caught in a fire 
take ld6 points of damage the first round, 
2d6 points the second round, 3d6 points Lhe 
third round, and so on. This damage accu 
mulates until someone or something puts the 
fire out. There is a 50% chance per round 
that the characters are able to put any fire 
out, All oil fires burn out after 5 minutes. 

If characters get caught in a tunnel 
between two oil fires, they pass out in 10 
rounds. 

Torches carried through oily areas may 
also start fires (I in 6 chance per torch). 


Encounter key 

19, DARK INTERSECTION 

Read the following boxed text to the players if 
the characters enter this area from area II. 

Strange clicking noises come from deep 
within the cave. The constant plop of 
dripping water comes from every direc 
tion. Two rats run by and scurry toward 
the cave opening. 

An intersection lies 50 feet into Lhis run 
nel. Other tunnels run to the left and 
right. The left tunnel appears to curve 
around to the right, while the right tunnel 
appears to curve around to the left. 
Twenty feet straight ahead, five large rep 
tile skulls hang mysteriously in midair. 


Show the players Illustration 5. The skulls 
are hydra skulls. IF the characters step up to 
examine the skulls, they fall into a trap (go to 
area 20). 


Strong threads hanging from the roof of 
the cave suspend the hydra skulls in midair. 

If the characters examine the cave floor* they 
notice dial the tunnels to the left and right do 
not seem to get much use. Clawed footprints 
mark the floor to the south of the hanging 
skulls. If characters go around the skulls, 
moving along the south wall of the tunnel, 
they do not fall into the trap. 

20, SKULL TRAP 

Characters who inspect the hanging skulls 
here fall through a trapdoor in the floor. The 
characters do not get a chance to notice that 
the skulls hang by threads. 

The pit is 10 feel wide and 40 feet deep. 
Characters who fall into the trap suffer 4d6 
points of damage. 

HOOK HORROR 7 " Monster carcasses 
litter the pir floor just beneath the trapdoor. 

The trapdoor springs shut immediately 
after swallowing its victim(s). Characters 
who try to pry the door open must use a 
wedge to do so. 

The characters are now m a subterranean 
passageway. The tunnel ends to the west, lb 
the east, the tunnel appears to continue into 
darkness. If characters walk east, they dis 
cover that the passageway bends to the north 
east, and runs for 50 feet. The tunnel then 
turns to the east for 80 feet before twisting 
around to the north again. The passageway 
rises gradually as it leads toward the east. 
Characters may follow this passageway to 
area 29. 

21. MANTICORE FEEDER 

If the characters wander down this dark hall 
way, die front rank of the party (no more than 
two characters) suddenly disappears. A pres 
sure-activated teleporter set into the floor of 
the tunnel teleports its victims to the spot 
marked W T" in the mantitores lair (area 
13) See Map 2b for the spot marked H T." Be 
sure, to keep track of how many 10-second 
rounds pass before other characters use the 
teleporter. Doing so tdls you how many 
rounds the first characters spend fighting the 
mamicores before other characters arrive, 

Dahnakriss put this teleporter here to weed 
out the large number of Hook Horrors in the 
area, 

A secret door stands in the north wall of 
this Tunnel. The door is extremely hard to 
detect. Elves have a 1 in fi chance to find die 
door, while other character classes have a 1 in 
10 chance. 


22. CHIMERA FEEDER 

This area is similar lo area 21, except the 
teleporter sends its victims to the spot marked 
<Ji T >T in the chimera lair (area 16), See Map 
2d for the spot marked 'T 1 

23* TUNNEL BRANCH 


Ten feet beyond the hanging skulls, this 
tunnel branches off to the left. The walla 
here are slimy and cold, The tunnel also 
appears to continue straight ahead. 


If characters go to the left, they enter area 24. 
If they go straight* they enter area 25. 

24, PIT TRAP 


A wooden door stands at the end of this 
tunnel. Long claw marks mar the door's 
surface. The scratches start about 5 feet 
up the door and run all the way to the 
ground. 


A trapdoor lies in the floor at the of this tun 
nel. A distance of 2 feet lies between the 
wooden door and the trapdoor. If eharaciers 
walk along the west wall o! this tunnel, they 
do not fall through the trap. The wooden 
door is false . 

Characters who walk down the center of 
the tunnel fall through the pit if they come 
within 12 feet of the wooden door. They fall 
40 feet and take 4d6 points of damage. The 
trapdoor immediately springs back shut 

Characters who have fallen through the pit 
are in a damp, 15-foot-wide subterranean 
passageway. If characters walk toward the 
southwest in this passageway, they eventually 
come to the area beneath the trap at area 20. 
If they follow the passageway to the east , they 
eventually come to area 29. 

If characters examine the passageway 
floor, they notice clawed footprints. 

25. TUNNEL FORK 


The tunnel forks here. One tunnel runs 
northeast. The other rum southeast. No 
sound comes from the northeast, bui 
strange dicks echo down the hallway from 
the southeast. 


26* HOOK HORROR LAIRS 

Just before characters enter this area, read 
the following boxed text to the players. 


10 









ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


Oily, clawed footprints extend toward the 
north and south here, Oil drips into the 
tunnel from small cracks in the walls. 
Shallow pools of oil lie on the tunnel floor 
The sound of clicking grows slowly louder 


No matter which path of footprints the char 
acters follow , continue reading the boxed text 
in the players. 


The tunnel opens into a large, pear- 
shaped cavern. Huge, vulture!ike crea 
tures stand around the cave, growling and 
squawking. Each creature is 7 feet tall. 
Each has the head of a vulture and the 
hide of a black rhino. The creatures walk 
on clawed feet, and they have thick, single 
talons instead of hands. They turn sud 
denly, raising their talons to attack. 


Each of these areas contains six Hook Hor 
rors. 

Hook Horrors (6): AC 2; HD 5; tip 24 each; 
MV 90' (30*); MT 2 daws/1 beak; D 
1-8/1-8/3-18; Save F5; ML 8; AL N; 
XF 175 

\bu may use the HOOK HORROR*" Mon- 
ster produced by LJN Toys, Ltd. for this 
encounter For a complete description of 
these monsters, turn to the New Monsters 
section at the end of the adventure. 

Each lair contains a small amount of trea 
sure. Roll percentile dice for the number of 
silver pieces, electrum pieces, and gold pieces 
Lhe characters find here, 

27* HOME OF THE HEAD HORRORS 


Stalactites and stalagmites fill this odd 
shaped cave. A large pool of oil fills the 
south end of the cave. A blood-curdling 
squawk splits the silence a s huge yellow 

daws swoop down from above. 

-- -=. --- 

Five extremely strong Hook Horrors jump 
down from ledges that run around this cave's 
walls. They attack as soon as the characters 
are in the center of the room. They automati 
cally surprise the characters. 

Hook Horrors (5); AC 2; HD 5; hp 36 each; 
MV 90' (30*); MT 2 daws/1 beak; D 
1-8/1-8/348; Save F5; ML 8; AL N; 
XF 175 


You may use the HOOK HORROR 1 * Mon 
ster produced by LJN Toys, Ltd. for this 
encounter. 

These tough binds are the top of the Hook 
Horror pecking order. They hide their trea 
sure in a dry alcove behind the pool of oil. 
The treasure consists of 444 sp, 211 ep. 325 
gp. a potion of healing, a potion of fire resist 
ance, and a silver-headed hammer worth 500 
gp. The hammer is useless as a weapon, 

28. OIL TRAP 

A wall-to-wall pit trap is hidden under a pool 
of oil in this area, Because the trap is hidden, 
the first characters to cross the trap have no 
chance of detecting it before falling through 
it. These characters fall 30 feet and take 3d6 
points of damage. They are also covered from 
head to foot with oil. 

Characters who have fallen through the 
trap are in a dank, 10-foot-wide passageway. 
This pit trap and the traps described in areas 
20 and 24 are all part of a subterranean pas 
sageway that leads to area 29, 

29. CAVERN OF STATUES 

Characters arrive in this tunnel area by fall 
ing through pit traps in areas 20 + 24, and 28, 
or by coming through the rubble in the south 
wall of area 32, Just as characters approach 
this area, read the following boxed text to the 
players. 


A louse jumble of rocks blocks the north 
end of this tunnel. 

To the south, the tunnel widens to an 
opening of 25 feet Standing in the 30- 
foot-tall cavern are twelve humanoid 
statues made of dark stone. Six statues 
have human heads, and six have vulture 
heads. All of the stames faee south. The 
cavern appears to continue to the south. 


The six vulture-headed statues were once 
Hook Horrors. Basilisks that live to the south 
beyond this cavern petrified these creatures. 
The human-headed statues are living rock 
statues. They do not attack if the characters 
leave them alone. If the characters go on to 
attack the basilisks in area 29a, the statues 
attack the characters as they move back 
through this area. 

Living Rock Statues (6); AC 4; HD 5*; hp 32 
each; MV 60* (20'); #AT 2; D 2-12/2- 
12; Save F5; ML U; AL C; XP 300 


11 


The statues have no treasure. 

If characters successfully search for a secret 
door along the north wall of this cavern, tell 
them that they have picked their way through 
the rubble into another cavern (area 32). 

29a. Basilisk cavern: 


A short, 10-foot-wide tunnel leads from 
the cavern of statues to a 30-foot-wide 
dead-end cave. A deep pool of water, par 
tially covered by an oil slick, lies in the 
center of the cave. A pile of treasure sits at 
the far side of the pool. 


The pool is the home of two basilisks. If any 
characters come within 10 feet of the trea 
sure, the basilisks attack immediately. 

Basilisks (2): AC 4; HD 6*1**; hp 42 each; 
MV 60' (20'); #AT 1 bite/1 gaze; D 1- 
10/petrification; Save F6; ML 9: AL N; 
XP 951) 

The basilisks' treasure includes 4,000 gp, a 
shield +1 7 a quiver of 20 arrows *1, and a 
heart-shaped stone that gives off a green 
glow. The stone removes curses from any 
character wiio touches it. The stone also heals 
a maximum of 25 hit points. The stone has 
three charges left, 

30. OIL SLIDE 


The footing here is treacherous. Oil drips 
From the walls and runs down, forming 
shallow pools all over the floor. A large 
opening lies in the center of the door at the 
end of this tunnel. 


Characters must stand in pools of oil if they 
want to look through the hole. Characters 
who stand in the oil here automatically slip 
and fall, sliding down into a cold, dark lake 
(area 38), 

31. BLACK PUDDING 


Black oil floods this area, The oily slime 
coats the walls and ceiling, and the od 
pools that stand on the floor are at least a 
foot deep. 


A black pudding makes its home here. Char 
acters can avoid fighting the pudding only by 
flying over this area, or by devising some 
other way to move through without touching 
the walls, floor, or celling- 











ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


Black Pudding: AC 6; HD 10*; hp 64; MV 
60' (20'#AT 1; D 3-24 • special; Save 
F5; ML 12; AL N; XP 1,600 

31 a, Green slime 


Pools of oil cover ihe floor here, but a 
slimy green substance coats the walls. 


The substance on the walls is green slime. If 
characters ignite the oil pools, the fire kills the 
green slime. 

Green Slime (3): AC can always be hit; HD 
2**; hp 12 each: MV 3' (V); #AT i;D 
special; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 5 

32, EMPTY CAVE 

This cave is completely empty. A loose jum- 
hie of rocks blocks the south wall. Characters 
may search the south wall for a secret door. If 
they find one* tell them that they have picked 
their way through the rubble into another 
cavern (area 29). 

33, TRIP WIRE 

Dahnakriss has placed a trip wire just below 
the surface of the oil pool here, ff a character 
walks through the oil, the trap is triggered 
and the oil bursts into flames (see Traveling 
Through the Tunnels for information about 
oil damage}. 

34, HYDRA LAIR 


The tunnel here is very wet and foub 
smelling. The passageway opens up into a 
small cavern filled by a murky pool. Sud 
denly a large reptilian head pops out of 
the water, swaying on a long, flexible 
neck. Then another head pops out. Then 
another, and another, and yet another! 


This lair is the home of six five-headed 
hydrae. Only one hydra surfaces at a time. If 
characters have already fallen into the lake 
(area 38), they may already have fought 
some of these monsters. 

Hydra (6): AC 5: HD 5; hp 24 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 5; D M0 each: Save 
F5; ML 11; AL X; XP 173 

You may use the Five-headed Hydra Benda 
ble Monster produced by TSR t Inc. for this 
encounter. 


33. SLIDE TRAP 

If characters step onto this trap, they fall 
through the door and slide down an oily 
chute. The chute deposits the characters in a 
large, icy lake (area 38). 

If characters walk along the east wall of this 
tunnel, they do not fall through the trap. 

36. BRIDGE OVER NASTY WATER 

Characters who walk down the center of this 
bridge are able to safely cross it. Any charac 
ter who walks on the left or right side of the 
bridge falls into the lake (area 38), The sides 
Of the bridge arc rigged to collapse whenever 
someone walks on them. 

Show the players Illustration 6, This is the 
characters 1 view from the tenter of the 
bridge, looking coward the west. 

37. SUPPLY/DRAINAGE ROOM 

Show the players Illustration 7 if the charac 
ters enter this room from the north, 

A spiral staircase made of stone connects 
this room to area 71 on Level Hi: The Wiz 
ard^ Home. 

If Dahnakriss or Tharadodus the Wizard 
floods area 71, die water washes down the 
staircase into this room. Any character on the 
steps when water rushes down from above 
takes 4d6 points of damage. The water then 
carries the character into a drainage area that 
lies to the south of the stairs in this room. 
This drainage area empties into the lake 
(area 38). 

Two metal doors stand along the east wall 
of this room. These heavily-latched doors 
open into a supply room. The doors are wiz 
ard locked shut. If characters get the doors 
open. read the following boxed text to the 
players. 


Thu stench of carrion fills the air. A body 
lies among several boxes and kegs. The 
person has obviously been dead a very 
long time. A lantern, a book, and a quill 
lie next to the body. 


The book is a diary of sorts. It contains the 
final thoughts of the man who now lies dead 
here. He was a thief in search of his master 
Hr came here to impress his master by find 
ing Dahnakriss" hideout, which, he writes, 
no one else has ever found. 

He writes how t upon entering these tun 
nels, he found a secret door in the north wall 
of the first left hallway. He climbed a flight of 


stairs to a landing. He writes that he chose to 
descend another set of stairs that led east from 
the landing. There was no exit at the bottom 
of these stairs. Hu searched for and found a 
secret entrance into a room with a spiral stair- 
ease and a large drain, A supply room was 
built into the room's east wall. 

The thief then relates how he left the room 
and walked north to a stone bridge. There he 
stared ai a beautiful underground lake where 
water fell from the wall and ceiling into a 
deep pool. Suddenly, the bridge gave way 
and he Tell into the icy, oil-covered water. A 
large lizard having many heads then slithered 
into the water The thief, covered with oil, 
was barely able to climb up the sheer rock 
wall and Onto the bridge. As he examined the 
Trapped bridge, he heard humming coming 
from the north. A robed figure approached, 
and he fled south, back into the room. He hid 
in the supply room and kepi the door cracked 
open so he could see who was coming. 

The robed man entered the room, he 
writes, and walked past the supply room 
doors* Then the doors slammed shut! Thu 
man had kicked them shut from behind. 
Then the man cast a spell in some unknown 
language, and said, "Rest well, intruder, for 
you shall spend ihe rest of your days whhin!" 
And then he left. The voice seemed vaguely 
familiar to the thief. 

The thief found that he could not escape. 
He eventually ate all of the food and drank all 
of the ale that was stored in the room His 
laiucrn was running low. 

On the final pages of his book, the thief 
writes about his initiation into the Thieves 4 
Guild. He was teleported, hu writes* to an 
unknown place by a great mage and Dahna 
kriss the Master Thief. They appeared in a 
large room lit only by a huan-shaped stone 
that gave oil'a bright red glow The mage cast 
a spell and disappeared. The Master Thief 
put bis right hand on the stone and put his left 
hand to his lips to command silence. Red rays 
from the stone !>eamed out between the fin 
gers of the Master's hand. 

The thief felt sick. The Master, he felt, was 
entering his mind Then the thief blacked 
out. He writes that he awoke in a room at an 
inn. He later discovered that the room was 
his for 1 year He was now a full apprentice in 
the Thieves' Guild. 

The thief's story ends here. If characters 
search the room, they find the thiefs short 
sword r two daggers, a coil of rope (30 feet), 
and a pouch containing 10 gems (each worth 
100 gp). 


12 
























ii 

|Km ; ^ 

m i 

.MHUfla-- J, 

ir 1 w 

v^Unl'W 1 i 

tj 14nfjfiB'' ||| 

b l 


.'lii 

HD 

HR 

jCm- ' 






















PREROLLED 

CHARACTERS 


are based on the Official ADVANCED DUNGEONS. 
Action Tby figures produced by LJN Toys, Ltd, 


STRONGHEART(tm) 
Good Paladin * 

Lawful I Oth Level Lord (fighter) 


ELKHORN(tm) 

Good Dwarf Fighter* 

Lawful Dwarven Champion (7th level) 


Strength 
Intelligence 
. Wisdom 


Dexterity 12 

Constitution 11 
Charisma 17 


Strength 

Intelligence 

Wisdom 


Dexterity 

Constitution 

Charisma 


Armor Class 


Hit Points 68 


Armor Class 


Hit Points 


Weapons: dagger; intelligent lawful 
sword *2 (Intelligence * 8, detect 
evil, healing - 6 hit points per day) 
Armor: plate mail; shield; helmet 


Weapons: sword *1 ; hand axe; dagger 
Armor: plate mail; shield, helmet * 




RINGLERUN(tm) 

Good Wizard* 

Lawful Sorcerer (7th level magic-user) 


Strength 

Intelligence 

Wisdom 


Dexterity 

Constitution 

Charisma 


Hit Points 


Weapons: dagger *1; staff power (21 
charges left) 

Armor: ring of protection *1 
Additional Language: Hobgoblin 
Spell book: ! 

First level; charm person, detect 
magic, magic missile, read magic, 
sleep 

Second level: ESP, knock, levitate, 
web 

Third level: dispel mag7C 3 fireball, 
haste 

Fourth level: ice storm/wall 


MERC ION(tm) 

Good Cleric Female* 

Lawful Elder (7th level cleric) 


Strength 

Intelligence 

Wisdom 


Dexterity l f 9 
Constitutions 9 
Charisma 17 


Hit Points 35 


Armor Class 


Weapon; mace *1 
Armor: plate maxi; shield 


PERALAY(tm) 

Fighter Mage Elf* 

Lawful 10th Level Lord Wizard (elf) 


Strength 

Intelligence 

Wisdom 


Dexterity 

Constitution 

Charisma 


Armor Class 


Hit Points 


Weapons: sword *2; dagger; longbow 
and 15 arrows 

Armor: chain mail *3; shield 
Additional Language: Ogre 
Spellbook: 

= First level: charm person, light, 
magic missile, read languages, 
read magic, shield 

Second level: detect invisible, invisi 
bility, mirror image, web, wizard 
bek 

Third level: dispel magic, fireball , 
hold person, lightning boh, wafer 
breathing 

Fourth level: charm monster, confu 
sion, wall of fire 

Fifth level: cloudkil! 


% FIGGEN(tm) Halfling 

Lawful Sheriff (8th level halting) 


^ Strength 
M Intelligence 
Wisdom 


Dexterity 13 

Constitution 12 
Charisma HI 


Armor Class 


Hit Points 45 


Weapons: dagger +2; short sword 
sling and 20 stones 
Armor: plate mail; shield, helmet 
elvencloak 



MOLLIVER 

Lawful Thief (8th level) 
th 9 Dexterity 

;ence 10 Constitution 

Ti 9 Charisma 


_ HAWKLER(tm) / 

Good Ranger* * 

Lawful Myrmidon (6th level fighter) 


Armor Class 


Hit Points 


Weapons: sword *2; two daggers 
Armor: leather *1; boots of levitation 


Strength 

Intelligence 

Wisdom 


Dexterity 16 

Constitution 13 
Charisma 12 


Armor Class 


Hit Points 


Weapons: long bow; 12 arrows 
sword *1; dagger 
Armor: leather 


DEETH(tm) 

Good Fighter* 

Lawful Superhero (8th level fighter) 


Strength 

Intelligence 

Wisdom 


12 Dexterity 

II Constitution 

13 Charisma 


Armor Glass 


2 Hit Points 


Weapons: flail *2 (damage ld8+2) 
sword *2 

Armor: plate mail; shield; helmet 
scarab of protection 


VALKEER" 

Good Norseman* 

Lawful Swashbuckler (5 th level 
fighter) 


BOWMARC(tm) A/ 
Good Crusader* 

Lawful Champion (7th level fighter) 


Strength 
Intelligence 
Wisdom 
Armor Class 


Dexterity 
Constitution 
Charisma 
Hit Points 


Dexterity 12 

Constitution 13 
Charisma 12 


Strength 

Intelligence 

Wisdom 


Armor Class 


Hit Points 


Weapons: sword *1 ; war hammer; 
hand axe 

Armor: leather; shield; helmet (jttj 


Weapons: battle axe *1; sward *1 
Armor: plate mail; shield; helmet: 
gauntlets of ogre power 


16 




GRIM SWORD(tm) 

Evil Knight* 

Chaotic Champion (7th level fighter) 






Weapons: sword */ (energy drain); 
flail 

Armor: plate mail; chain mail: shield; 
helmet 


ZARGASH(tm) 

Evil Cleric 

(7th level cleric) 


8 Dexterity 10 
10 Constitution 10 
Wisdom 15 Charisma 16 


Armor Class 


Hit Points 


Weapons: mace */; war hammer; 
snake staff 

plate mail; shield; helmet 


KELEK 1 * 

Evil Sorcerer* 

Chaotic Sorcerer (7th level magic- 
user) 


Strength 

15 

Dexterity 

10 

Intelligence 

15 

Constitution 

14 

Wisdom 

13 

Charisma 

7 


Armor Class 9 Hit Points 


Si rength 

Intelligence 

Wisdom 


15 

10 

9 


Dexterity 13 

Constitution 12 
Charisma 7 


Armor Class 


2 


Hit Points 


Weapons: dagger *J; wand of cold (5 
charges left); staif of striking (12 
charges left) 

Armor; ring of protection *1 
Additional Languages: Ore 
Spcilbook: 

First level: charm person, magic mis 
sile. read magic. shield, sleep 
Second level: ESP, knock , mirror 
image, web 

Third level; fireball t fly, haste 
Fourth level: charm monsters 


WARDUKE(tm) 

Evil Fighter* 

Chaotic Superhero {8th level fighter) 


Strength 16 

Intelligence 9 

Wisdom 11 


Dexterity 11 

Constitution 14 
Charisma 11 


Armor Class 2 Hit Points 59 \ 

Weapons: sword *1 (flames on com 
mand); battle axe; dagger 
Armor: plate mail; shield; magical 
helmet (infravision 60feet, causes 
wearer's eyes to glow red) 






ZORGAR 1 * 

Evil Barbarian* 

Chaotic Swashbuckler (5th 
fighter) 


level 


Weapons: dagger club 
Armor: chain mail 


SKYLLA" 

Evil Magic-User* 

Chaotic Warlock (6th level magic-user) 


Strength 

9 

Dexterity 

M 

Intelligence 

12 

Constitution 

10 

Wisdom 

15 

Charisma 

11 


Strength 

Intelligence 

Wisdom 


18 

10 

9 


Dexterity 

Constitution 

Charisma 


13 

16 

12 


Armor Class 


Hit Points 



Armor Class 9 Hit Points 


Weapons: dagger *1; staff of com 
manding (10 charges left) 
Armor: ring of protection *1 

Spell book: 

First level: charm person, floating 
disc, light, magic missile, read 
magic 

Second level: detect invisible, knock, 
levitatt% wizard lock 

Third level: hold person, lightning 
boh 


DREX(tm) 


Evil Warrior* 

Chaotic Myrmidon (6th level fighter) 


Strength 

15 

Dexterity 

14 

Intelligence 

9 

Constitution 

11 

Wisdom 

10 

Charisma 

10 

Armor Class 

6 

Hit Points 

39 


Weapons: sword d: dagger 
Armor: leather *1 ; shield; helmet 


ZARAK(tm) ^r# 

Evil Half-Ore Assassin* 

Chaotic Gutpurse (5th level thief) 


Strength 

13 

Dexterity 

12 

Intelligence 

11 

Constitution 

16 

Wisdom 

15 

Charisma 

6 


Armor Class 


Hit Points 


Weapons: throwing dagger *1 with 
magical returning (boomerang) 
ability 

Armor: leather; potion of invisibility 


18 






wrVk 


19 


Illustration 11 


































mmm 


T iT Iffl'J t. r fJ fi vf i . 


Illustration 12 









ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


38. ICY LAKE 

This lake is deep and very told. A thin slick of 
oil covers the water. Ef anyone falls into the 
lake* a hydra from area 34 slithers from its 
lair and splashes into the water. The hydra 
attacks 10 rounds after characters fall into the 
water. 

Most characters can escape the lake only 
by climbing one of the steep banks to the 
north* although thieves are able to climb the 
walls, A light-emitting fungus that feeds on 
oil keeps this area dimly illuminated. 

39. ROPER 

This cave is the home of a roper that guards 
the entrance to the wellevator beyond (area 
41). 

Roper: AC 0; HD 12***; hp 50; MV 30' 
(1Q # ); #AT 1 biie/6 strands; D 5-30/ 
weakness; Save F10; ML 10; AL C; 
XP 3,500 

You may use the RAGING ROPER(tm) Benda 
ble Monster produced by TSR, Inc. for this 
encounter. For a complete description of 
these monsters, turn to the New Monsters 
section at the end of the adventure. 

The roper has hidden its treasure nearby. It 
includes 204ep, 38 gp* 151 pp* a 500 gp gem r 
and a black heart-shaped stone. The stone 
docs not glow or do anything special. 

40. BYPASS 

This tunnel runs to the north of the roper's 
cave (area 39). It is empty. 

41. THE WELLEVATOR 

The wellevator is a platform that floats on 
water. The water rises and falls to match the 
various levels of Dahnakriss the Master 
Thief's home, 

Tharadodus the Wizard had the wellevator 
constructed lor Dahnakriss many years ago. 
lie conjured an elemental to hollow out the 
space for the wellevator. The ejemental then 
opened up a breach in the top of the difT so 
that the water flowing over die cliff could be 
used to fiU the wellevator from above, A mag- 
ically controlled waff of force regulates the 
flow of water into the wellevator. 

Golems created by Tharadodus budi the 
large platform that rides the water in die 
shaft. Air Oils a space just beneath the plat 
form, cushioning the platform as it rises and 
falls on the water's surface. 

The water can be set at four levels; Levd I: 
The Tunnels of Death; Level II: Frost Giants' 


Lair; Level Eli; The Wizard's Home; and 
Level IV: Home of the Heartstone. 

Each level has a door, except level II, On 
level II, the platform stops just below the 
opening in the frost giants' bathroom (area 
47a). IT characters go from the platform to 
the giants' bathroom, go to area 47a. 

Water constantly flows from the breach in 
the top of the cliff down the walls of the Wel 
le vator shaft, A waterfall from the bottom of 
the shaft empties into the lake (area 3S), bal 
ancing the amount of water that flows in from 
above. When the water level is set to rise to 
another level* more water flows from the top* 
pushing the platform up. When the water 
levd is set to lower to another level, more 
water flows out of the bottom of the shaft into 
the lake. 

When the water level is set for a specific 
level, the water sinks below die door on that 
level. The door ihen opens easily inward. A 
narrow gap of 2 feet separates the platform 
and the surrounding wall, The door automat 
ically doses if the water level rises, 

Three glowing gems sit in the center of the 
platform. The gems are red, white, and blue. 
If a character touches the red gem, the plat 
form rises to the next level. If a character 
touches the white gem, the platform lowers 
one levd. If a character touches the blue gem, 
an alarm sounds, alerting Tharadodus and 
Dahnakriss that intruders are near. In this 
case, one of them immediately shuts off the 
wellevator. The platform then sinks several 
feet below Level I and dlls outward as it hits 
bottom. Any characters on the platform at 
this time fall into the lake (area 38), and take 
3d6 points of damage from the fall. The plat 
form then rises to Level IV. 

See the Cliff Diagram for a side view of the 
wellevator. 

42* WELLEVATOR CONTROL BOXES 

These small boxes are found on all levels of 
Dahnakriss the Master Thiefs cliff home. 
They activate the wellevator (area 41). Each 
is mounted on the wall, 5 feet from the floor. 
A l hick metal door stands just beyond each of 
these boxes. These doors actually open onto 
the wellevator platform. 

IT the door on a certain level is knocked 
open, and if the water level is currently above 
that door, water bursts forth, knocking char 
acters back. The water docs 3d6 points of 
damage to each character. If characters do 
not dose the door or gel out of the rushing 
water's way, they drown. 

Each of the control boxes contains a magi 
cal gem that regulates the force field control 
ling the water* As soon as a character touches 
the gem, it begins to glow, and the water 


begins to rise or lower to ihat level. When ihe 
water reaches that levd* the gem stops glow 
ing. 

Level II: 

Frost Giants' Lair 

(Use Map 4.) 

Encounter key 

43. ENTRANCE TO THE FROST 
GIANTS' LAIR 


This huge tunnel is 20 feet wide and 20 
feet high. Colorful paintings of frost giants 
dot the tunnel walls. The paintings show 
the giants throwing large pieces of meat to 
various winged monsters. One scene 
shows a giant earth creature carving a 
cave m the side of a chlT, while a chimera 
hovers above the cave entrance. 

A huge pair of double doors stands at 
the end of the 80-fooukmg tunnel, The 
doors are made of sturdy wood and arc 
crossed by iron bands. Heavy iron 
pullrings, 14 inches in diameter* are cen 
tered on each door. The pullrings are at 
least 9 feet from the ground. Another 8 
feet above the pullrings, dark horizontal 
slits* each 14 inches wide by 2 feet high, 
have been cut into the center of each door. 


This area is the entryway to the frost giant's 
lair. Four giants live within. 

Dahnakriss the Master Thief has made a 
deal with the frost giants. He has provided 
the giants with a luxurious dwelling, and he 
actively acquires winged creatures for the 
giants, who like to use large "birds" for hunt 
ing. In return, ihe giants guard the diftTrom 
invaders. 

The doors here are bolted from the inside. 
If characters make loo much noise as they 
approach these doors* a giant peers through 
one of the eye slits and tells the characters to 
go away If characters cannot convince the 
giants to open the doors* they must either 
chop a hole in the doors or use magic to open 
them. To open other doors in the frost giants* 
lair, it takes a combined Strength of 40 
points. 

44, HALLWAY 

If characters used force to enter this area, 
three of the giams attack, throwing boulders 
at the characters (the giants take the boulders 
from area 45)* If a character utters any words 
of magic after entering this area, the giants 
stop throwing boulders and run to grab 
scrolls of prof erf/on from magic, which are 


21 



ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 




The gems are continual light gems. They are 
cemented into the east and west walls. Each is 
centered 20 feet up. Characters would have 
to spend at least 1 hour to pry a stone loose. 
Each gem is worth LOO gp, 

Inside the closet along the north wall is a 
crossbow trap. The trap can only be triggered 
by levers located on the walls in areas 45 and 
46 (marked M LT on Map 4). The trap fires 
t wo valleys of six giant-size bolts, each aimed 
at die south door. Each bolt does 3d6 points of 
damage, and should be considered to have 
been fired by a 5 Hit Dice creature. One pull 
of the lever releases one volley of bolts. 


Wall of Force 
Wellcvator Control 


45* KITCHEN 


Level TV 


A gigantic wooden table surrounded by 
four stools stands near the north wall. 

In the southeast comer of the room, the 
carcass of a freshly slain moose lies on a 
high table. A huge iron cleaver is imbed 
ded in the table, A pile of throwing boul 
ders lies under the table. 

A large metal cabinei stands in the 
southwest corner of the room. 


Area doors 


Illustration 8 


Level III 


The throwing boulders are too large for char 
acters to throw The metal cabinet is a cold 
meat storage locker. If characters open one of 
the metal doors to the locker, they find that it 
is full of rotting meat. Characters in the 
kitchen when the locker is opened must make 
a saving throw vs* death ray. Characters who 
fail their throw- become ill for ld4 turns. 
These characters have a -1 penalty to their hit 
rolls for the rolled number of turns. 


Level 11 


Level I 


46. COMMON ROOM 


Four crude chairs are arranged in a circle 
in the center of this room. A small pile of 
throwing boulders lies next to each chair. 

Several torches light this clean room. 
Color drawings of Hying creatures grace 
the smooth stone walls of this room. 

Several large cockroaches scurry 
around near a door in the western wall. 


Cliff Diagram 


Smooth stone walls rise to a 30-foot-high 
ceiling in this area. Two gems illuminate 
this massive, 80-foot by 30-foot room. 

A large wooden closet stands out from 
the center of the north wall. Several giant- 
size fur cloaks and vests hang front pegs 
along the south wall. Three pairs of huge 
fur boots lie beneath the cloaks. 

Several giant-size weapons also line the 
south wall. Two wooden dubs and one 
hammer are on the floor* leaning against 
the wall. Four iron-tipped spears, two 
bows, and two quivers of arrows hang 
from pegs above the other weapons. 


stashed in a vest that hangs along the south 
wall, 

If any character uses magic to open the 
doors from area 43, the giants are standing in 
a far comer of the room, clutching their 
scrolls. 


If characters did not encounter the giants in 
area 44, they meet three of them here. See 
area 44 for the giants' statistics. There is 
nothing of value in this room. 

The drawings are of a dragon (drawn in 
white chalk); a three-headed flying creature 
(chimera); a flying* lionlike creature that has 
a spiked tail and a man's face (manticore); 
and a large, eaglelike creature that has a 
lion's hindquarters (griffon). There are "rv 
eral different renditions of this last creature. 


Frost Giants (3); AC 4; HD 10+1 •; hp 64* 53, 
48; MV 120' (40'); #AT l weapon; D 
4-24; Save F10; ML ALC; XP 1*600 


If the giants are not here when the characters 
enter* read the following boxed text to the 
players. 


22 








ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


Another drawing depicts a clifTtop next to a 
waterfall. The drawing shows a great wooden 
cage standing open atop the difT. A robed 
human stands near the open cage, his arms 
outstretched. Several other large cages have 
been drawn in the background, Each appears 
to hold a great winged creature of some sort. 

tf characters lift up any of the chairs in this 
room, they find a scroll that gives instructions 
for working the wellevator (area 41). If char 
acters find this scroll t show the players Illus 
tration 8. 

Characters who can read Giant can deci 
pher the crude runic letters on the scroll. The 
first word is "up " the second is "down " and 
the third is "flush." 

47, BATHROOM 

Show the players Illustration 9. 


A great fountain adorns the north wall of 
this huge t torch-lit room. Water gushes 
from the mouth of a three-dimensional 
relief. The relief is of a bearded frost 
giant's head. The icy water spills down 
into a semicircular, 30-foot-wide pool. A 
6-foot-high, smooth stone wall surrounds 
the pool. 

Two 8-foot-tall cylinders stand on each 
side of the pool. The floor around them is 
very wet and slippery, 

Four large, sheepskin-like pelts hang on 
pegs along the south wall. Large doors 
lead out of the east and west walls of this 
room. 

A large wexxten cabinet stands in the 
southeast comer of the room, its door 
slightly ajar. 


This is the giants' bathroom. The water in 
the pool flows out through a drain hole in its 
floor. If characters peer into the pool, they see 
a large, flat rock on the bottom. The giants 
use this rock to plug the drain hole. 

The 8-foot cylinders are hollow; they hold 
the giants' soap. 

The wooden cabinet is 12 feet tall and 10 
feet wide. Folded towels rest on an upper 
shelf inside the cabinet In the lower part of 
the cabinet, a long, wide towel hangs draped 
over a rod. Two huge bottles and a dirty 
sponge lie on Lhe cabinet floor. The bottles 
arc partially filled with cleaning solution. 
Characters who ingest any of this solution 
suffer 4d6 points of poison damage. 

The towd in the lower part of the cabinet 


hides a secret, human-size door. Dahnakriss 
uses this door when he wants to use the wel- 
lcvator on this level of his home (see area 41 
for a complete description of the wedevator). 

4 7a. The water spout: If anyone lowers the 
wellevator level to Level I: The Tunnels of 
Death or to Level II (this level), the water 
stops flowing from the sculpture of the frost 
giant's head. If the wellevator level is at Level 
II, characters may climb up the sculpture's 
beard and into its mouth. The oval, 4-foot- 
high mouth hole opens onto the wcllevator's 
circular platform (area 41). 

48, THE INSIDE OUTHOUSE 


A 5-foot-high, 5-foot-wide platform rises 
up 10 feet against the east wall. 


Two circular holes have been cut into the top 
of the platform. Each hole is 3 feet in diame 
ter. If a character climbs up the platform and 
looks into one of the holes, he sees nothing 
but darkness. The sound of running water 
comes from far below. 

49. SECRET PASSAGEWAY 

This long hallway runs behind the giants' 
kitchen. Three secret doors lead to and from 
this passage The northwest door leads to the 
giants' bathroom (area 47), The southeast 
door stands at the bottom of two flights of 
stairs. This door opens into area 37. The 
southwest door stands at the bottom of two 
more sets of stairs. The door leads out of the 
cliff through areas 19 and 11. 

A small, 6-inch-square box is set into the 
northeast comer of the passageway, 5 feet 
from the floor. It is one of the wellevator con 
trol boxes {area 42). 

50. HALLWAY 


A pair of dark brown boots stands against 
the south wall in this hallway. Large cock 
roaches skitter about the floors, walls, and 
ceiling. A large wooden cabinet stands 
along the north wall. Doors lead into the 
hallway from the east and west. 


A crossbow trap, similar to the one in area 
44, is set in the cabinet. A lever in area 5t 
triggers the trap. 


51. GIANTS' REDROOM/WORKKOOM 


Four beds covered by huge animal pelts 
stand along the walls of this room. Three 
beds line Lhe west wall, and one stands in 
the northeast comer. Two large tables 
stand against the easL wall, A few stools 
rest before each table, A shelf holding rolls 
of paper is bolted into the wall above the 
southernmost table. Tall, narrow paint 
urns are scattered about the floor. Long 
sticks protrude from each urn. Crude 
pens and brushes litter the tables' sur 
faces. 

Wood shavings carpet the floor. Four 
tree trunk sections rest against the north 
wall. Partially completed statues of giants, 
trolls, and upright, vulture-headed crea 
tures stand between the beds along the 
north wall. Various carving tools are scat 
tered about the room, A torch is mounted 
on the wall over the northernmost table. 

Two large* covered vats rest under this 
table. A large mastodon rug lies on the 
floor in the center of the room. The walls 
and ceiling of this room are beautifully 
painted with pictures of flying creatures 
and birds. 

Sitting on hts bed in the northwest cor 
ner* a frost gianL whittles away on a long 
piece of wood. 


The frost gianl in this room is deaf, but he 
sees the characters as they enter. He throws 
large chunks of wood at the characters. If the 
characters still come fully into the room, he 
attacks* using a huge iron-headed axe. If 
some characters stay in the hallway (area 
50), the giant pulls the lever* releasing die 
crossbow trap in the hallway. The lever is 
located 14 feet up the east wall. 

Frost Giant; AC 4; HD 1CM*; hp 53; MV 
120 1 (40'); #AT 1 weapon; D 4-24; 
Save FI0; ML 9; AL C; XP 1.600 

If characters lift up all of the stumps that line 
the north wall, a leather sack falls out of the 
last stump The sack contains 943 gp and 167 
pp. This is no easy discovery, however. Each 
stump weighs 500 pounds. 

tf characters search under the bed in the 
southwest comer of the room, they find 
giants' clothing, old boots, a bloodstained 
cloak, and a wooden box. The box appears to 
contain 5*000 gp. However* the gold pieces 
arc actually gold-colored pieces of iron. 


23 






ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


If a character manages to climb up on the 
shelf above the table, he finds four wooden 
boxes and a large roll of paper tied wiLh rope, 
Each box contains the feathers and claws of a 
different +< bird." The roll of paper is 5 feet 
long and contains three huge scrolls. The 
innermost scroll is cursed, and it turns the 
character who reads it into a pixie for 1 week. 
A remove curse spell immediately returns the 
character to normal form, however. The 
other two scrolls contain charm monster 
spell s. 

The two vats beneath the northernmost 
table are 5 feel high and made of stone. It 
takes the combined Strength of three charac 
ters to slide one of the stone lids aside. The 
north vat contains gray ooze. IF characters 
put anything in the vat, or if they leave the 
vat open for 5 minutes, the creature begins 
oozing out. 

Gray Ooze (3): AC 8; HD 3*; hp 18 each; 

MV 10 J (3'); #AT 1; D 2-16 + special; 

Save F2; ML 12; AL N; XP 50 

The south vat contains a sticky black sub 
stance that resembles oily tar, The vat is */s 
full. The substance is actually a black pud 
ding. The giants dump their garbage into this 
vat, and use the torch on the wall to keep the 
pudding in its vat. 

Black Pudding; AC 6; HD 10*; hp 64; MV 
60' (20'); #AT 1; D 3-24 * special; Save 
F5; ML 12; AL N; XP 1,600 

Under the pelts on the bed in the northeast 
earner of the room is a bag that contains the 
following; 714 gold-colored pieces of iron 
(worthless), 668 gp (mixed in with the iron 
pieces), 456 pp, and a copper tube containing 
a scroll of four clerical spells. The spells are 
raise dead, resist fire, speak with (he dead, 
and sticks ro snakes. 

52, STORAGE ROOM 


Large boxes, sacks of grain, and huge 
kegs of ale are stacked here. Dozens of 
piles of furs, hides, and sponges stand 
around the room. 


The only thing of interest in this room is a 
wooden box that sits near the door in the west 
wall. If characters open the box, they find 
that it is filled with straw, A ceramic bottle 
capped by a wooden stopper is buried 
beneath the straw. The bottle holds a gallon 
of noxious liquid, A black spider is painted 
neatly on the side of the bottle, which is filled 
with black widow spider antidote. 


53, BOULDER CAVERN 


A large pile of throwing boulders lies in 
the center of this cave. Webs fill the room 
from one end to the other. What appears 
to be an exit to the south is obscured by 
weba. 


As soon as a character enters this room, a 
black widow spider drops from above. Two 
more spiders wait in webs above the boulder 
pile. The boulders are too large for characters 
to throw. 

Black Widow Spiders (3): AC 6; HD 3*; hp 
16 each; MV 60' (20'); #AT l bite; D 
2-12 * poison; Save F2; MLS; AL N; 
XF 50 

The spiders normally feed on surges that live 
in the southern part of this cave. They are 
delighted at the prospect of a more filling 
meal, however. 

Large, sticky webs block the cave's south' 
era exit. These webs are the equivalent of a 
magic-user's web spell. If characters bum 
away the webs, the stirges from the area to 
the south swarm into the cave. Many of them 
may fly into area 52, if characters leave the 
door to that area open. The characters should 
not become aware of the stirges until after 
they have burned away the webs . If they do 
burn the webs, read the following boxed text 
to the players. 


Out of the darkness beyond, a deadly 
swarm of flying creatures flies into die 
cave. The beasts look like crosses between 
giant bats and mosquitos. 


Have the players roll for surprise as the 
stirges fly into the cave. 

Stirges (24): AC 7; HD 1*; hp 4 each; MV 
30' (10'); #AT 1; D 1-3; Save F2; ML 
9; AL N; XP 13 

The stirges attack any characters in the cave 
one at a time. The stirges buzz around, wait 
ing until the character is engrossed in some 
thing else. Then they zero in on the character 
and bite him. ff a stirge misses its hit roll, it 
flies away* temporarily out of the character's 
range. The stirges attack the same way if they 
fly into area 52 and find characters there. 

The stirges normally leave this cave 
through small openings in the front of the cliff 
face. The openings are loo small for humans 
to use. 


Level III: 

The wizard's home 

(Use Map 5.) 

Encounter key 

54 . LAIR OF THE DRAGONNES 

Two Dragonnes inhabit this large cavern. If 
characters enter this area from area 15, they 
may already have fought these creatures. If 
not, the Dragonnes attack as soon as charac* 
ters enter their lair, 

Dragonnes (2): AC 3; HD 8*; hp 50 each; 
MV 150' (50'); #AT 2 claws/1 bite or 
roar; D I 6/ 1-6/4-24 or special; Save 
F8; ML 8; AL N; XP 1,200 

You may use the DRAGONNE 1 " Monster 
produced by LJN Toys, Ltd. for this encoun 
ter. For a complete description of these mon 
sters, turn to the New Monsters section at the 
end of the adventure. 

These creatures carry- no treasure. 

Two holes pierce the north wall of this cave. 
The holes funnel into the rock like giant 
cones. 

If characters inspect the 2-foot-wide holes, 
they see that, after a distance of about 8 feet, 
the holes shrink to 6 inches in diameter. 
These openings transmit the sound of the 
Dragonnes' roars to Dahnakrm and Thara- 
dodus. The small tunnels created by the holes 
extend back to Dahnakriss 1 residence (area 
88), and Tharadodus' residence (area 69), 
The holes also provide a last-ditch means of 
escape for Dahnakriss and Tharadodus, if 
they are in gaseous form, 

55, OILY PATHWAY 

If characters approach this area from the 
southeast, show the players Illustration 10, 
and read them the following boxed text. 


A 10-foot-wide tunnel of rough-hewn rock 
runs to the northwest for 90 feet. The tun 
nel then opens up into a huge, 50-foot- 
wide cavern. 

Oil covers the floor of the cavern. The 
rough walls extend to a 70-Foot-high ceil 
ing. A long, snakelike mound of earth 
winds its way through the oil-filled cav 
ern. This raised pathway leads to a dry 
area beyond the cavern. From there, the 
tali tunnel appears to continue on into the 
mountain. 


24 







ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


56. TRAP OF FLAMES 

If the characters walk through the oil in this 
area, they trigger a tripwire that ignites all of 
the oil in areas 55-59 The entire cavern 
explodes in flame. Burning oil cavers every 
one in the area, causing 2d6 points of damage 
to each character. For guidelines on dealing 
with oily situations, see Traveling Through 
the Tunnels in Level I; The Tunnels of Death. 

57. SECRET DOOR 

If character approach this area from the 
southeast, read the following boxed text to 
the players. 


Tlir hallway before you splits to the Jeff 
and right. Oil fills both passages. An 
earthen mound stands directly ahead, 
slanting slightly to the north as it rises up 
w the ceiling. 


If characters fry to climb the mound, they 
find several handholds and footholds. If they 
search for a secret door at the foot of the 
mound, they find a tunnel that leads Lhrough 
the mound. Characters may use this tunnel to 
avoid walking in any more oil. 

There is a space between the top of the 
earthen mound and the ceiling of this cavern. 
Do not mention this fact if the characters do 
not dimb the mound. 

58. DRAGONNES 1 TREASURE 


A golden chest rests in a bowl-shaped 
depression at the top of this earthen 
mound. Dust and oily soot cover the 
chest. 


The chest contains a gold crown and sceptre. 
Each is worth 5 T OQO gp. 

59. CAVERN OF SECRET DOORS 

If characters come into this area from the 
northwest, read the players the boxed text for 
area 57, Otherwise, there is nothing unusual 
about this cavern. 

[f characters successfully search for a secret 
door along the northeast wall, they find area 

60. 

60. DARK CORRIDOR 

This dark passageway leads to the Level 111 
wdlevator control box (area 42). If charac 
ters touch the gem in the control box and 


open the metal door, they see two more metal 
doors across the platform. A door to the east 
opens onto area 61. A door to the south 
opens onto area 64. For more details about 
the wdlevator, see area 41, 

61, TRAP ROOM 

The wdlevator control box mounted on the 
wall of this room is a fake. As soon as charac 
ters enter this room, the door through which 
they entered doses behind them. Only a 
Jbiodfc spell reopens the door to area 41. If 
characters open the door to area 62. gas 
begins filling the room, putting all characters 
below 5th level to sleep for 4d6 hours. Char 
acters above 5th level must make saving 
throws vs. poison or be paralyzed for 2d6 
rounds. 

As soon as characters open the door to area 

62, the golems in that room move toward the 
door to attack the characters. 

62. GOLEM STORAGE 

Show the player* Illustration 11. 


Six strange creatures stride toward the 
open door. The three figures in front are 
short humanoids. They carry no weap 
ons, but they look mean and dangerous. 
The three figures in the back are tall, ske 
letonlike figures. Each has four arms and 
carries four swords. The rest of the room 
is empty. 


Tharadodus created these golems. They 
attack anything or anyone, except him. 

Wood Golems (5): AC 7: HD 2*2*; hp 10 
each; MV 120' (40 J ); #AT 2 fists; D 
1-8/1-8; Save FI; ML 12; AL N; XT 
35 

Bone Golems (3): AC 2: HD 6*; hp 32 each; 
MV 120' (40')¦ #AT 4weapons; D 1-8/ 
1-8/1-8/1-8; Save F4; ML 12; AL N; 
XP 500 

These golems wield broadswords. 

None of the golems has any treasure. 

63, ILLUSION TRAP 

If characters look through the south door of 
area 62 into this room, read the following 
boxed text to the players. 


Tables and cabinets fill this room. Various 
pieces of equipment cover the tables. Gold 
coins are scattered about on the floor. Jars 
and boxes filled with strange items fill the 
cabinets. Two half-built bone golems 
stand in the southwest corner. This is 
definitely a wizard's workroom 


If characters enter this room, they Fall 
through an illusinnary floor and splash into 
the lake (area 38). Each falling character 
takes 2d6 points of damage (a lucky fall!). 

Once characters have fallen through the 
"floor/' the entire illusion is dispelled The 
room then appears as it really is, a rocky shaft 
having doors in die east and west walls. The 
air in the shaft is very cold. A steady stream of 
water flows out of a large opening in the shah 
below the doors in the east wall. This water 
falls from area 91 (the reservoir on Level IV), 
See the ClilT Diagram for a side view. 

If characters enter this room from area 65, 
they see only the shaft and the water running 
from the east wall. 

The door on the east wall of the shaft b 
false. The door on the west wall leads to area 
65. 

64. DEADLY CORRIDOR 

This hallway forms a capital "T p *' and runs 
south and east. A wellevator control box is 
mounted on the wall in the northeast corner 
of the hallway. 

Two 10-foot-wkle sections of illusionary 
wall make up part of the wall that borders 
area 65, Both sections open into area 65, If a 
character touches one of these illusionary 
walls, the wall disappears and the amber 
golems in area 65 attack. 

The door opening into area 66 is locked. 
Once characters unlock it, the door may 
swing inward or outward. If the characters 
swung the door inward, the illusion ary walls 
bordering area 65 vanish, and the amber 
golems in Lhat area emerge and attack. 

A large eye ls pain Led on the door to area 
69. If characters approach this door, Thara 
dodus may cast a spell at them through a 
small hole in the pupil of the eye* 

A false door stands at the south end of the 
hallway, If a character opens the door, a wall 
of stone begins pushing out from the door 
lhat opens Into area 69. The wall pushes 
down the east-west hallway, shoving anyone 
in its way oul toward the north-south hall 
way. The wall stops moving w'hen it reaches 
the north-south hallway. The wall remains 
until dispelled or until characters break 
through it. 


25 






ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


if the characters enter this hallway from 
the wdlevator or from the illusion ary walls in 
area 65. read Lhe following boxed text to the 
players. 


Standing at the south end of the hallway is 
a tall man in robes who appears to be a 
magic-user. He says, ' This is my home. 
\bu do not belong here. Whatever your 
quest* you must leave. I am a very power 
ful man who wishes to be left alone. 
Return to the well and descend now with 
your Jives, or ] shall make golems of vou 
all!" 


If the characters immediately attack, the wiz 
ard casts a 14 Hit Dice lightning bolt at them, 
Those who make their saving throws suffer l /2 
damage. The wizard then warns the charac 
ters again. If rhey do not take his advice, he 
casts another lightning bolt. The wizard con 
tinues to cast spells at the characters* until 
they either approach or retreaL, 

If the characters strike or touch the magic- 
uscr. he disappears. He was only a projected 
image Tharadodus is actually sitting in his 
workshop (area 661, The wizard knew when 
the characters entered his home, and he cast a 
clairvoyance spell to monitor the characters' 
actions. When the characters entered the 
hallway, he cast a projected image spell. 

If characters talk to the image and do noi 
approach it* the wizard talks to them and 
freely explains what is going on: Dahnakriss 
the Master Thief provides him with funds 
and special items with which he can do his 
research, In return, the wizard writes scrolls 
for Dahnakriss* and he has conjured elemen- 
rah to help build this hideaway Many times, 
he has aided Dalinakriss in selecting new 
members for the local Thieves' Guild. The 
wizard says nothing else about Dahnakriss 
other than the fact that he lives upstairs. If 
characters ask the wizard what his name is, 
he does not reply. 

65, GOLEM STORAGE 

Four amber golems make their home here. 
As soon as characters enter this room* the 
golems attack. 

Amber Golems (4): AG 6; HD 1U P ; hp 42 
each; MV 180' (60'); £AT 2 daws/1 
bite: D 2-12/2-12/2-20; Save F5; ML 
12; AL N: XP 1,600 

The golems carry no treasure. 


66, WIZARD S WORKSHOP 

If characters enter this room, read the boxed 
text from area 63 to the players. The rooms 
are exactly alike, except that this room is not 
an illusion. Also, the door on the west wall is 
false, and the door on the east wall leads to 
area 68. 

Tharadodus the Wizard is here* sitting in 
the northwest comer of the room. If charac 
ters enter* he tells them that they should leave 
immediately. If characters attack the wizard * 
he defends himself, 

Tharadodus the Wizard: AC 9; MU 14; hp 
45; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 weapon or 
spell; D 1-6+2 or by spell; Save MU 14; 
ML 12; AL G 

Spells. First Level: charm person , detect 
magic, magic missile (2)* shield, 
sleep 

Second Level; detect invisible f 
invisibility', knock * wizard lock 
Third Level: clairvoyance t dispel 
magic, lightning boh (2) 

Fourth Level: confusion, ice 
stormfwaB\ dimension door , wizard 
eye 

Fifth Level: conjure elemental, 
teleport (2) 

Sixth Level: anti-magic shell , pro 
jected image 

Tharadodus may attack with a poison-tipped 
dagger *2 and a wand of paralyzation. He 
defends himself with an amu/el vs. crysiai 
ball and ESP, a ring of protection d t and a 
ring of spell turning. 

There is a small chance that characters may 
defeat the wizard and obtain his spell book. 
This should only be a remote possibility* how 
ever. After a few rounds of battle* the wizard 
again insists that the characters leave* while 
they still have their lives. If they do not, the 
wizard attacks for another round, weakening 
the characters further, and then retreats to his 
sanctuary vault (area 67). 

A total of 89 gp is on the floor. The rest of 
the items in the room are used for magical 
research. Magic-users who search here for 6 
turns find anything they need for their 
research, If the characters search here for 2 
rounds, they find two scrolls among the scat 
tered papers. One is a scroll of teleport . The 
other is a scroll of dimension door. 

67* SANCTUARY VAULT 

This room can only be entered magically. 
T haradodus retreats here if the characters 
seem to be too strong. A simple bed and a 


small table are the only furnishings here. The 
wizard's spell book lies on the table, ft con 
tains all of the first, second, and third level 
spells (Expert rule book, p. il}, as well as the 
following fourth* fifth, and sixth level spells: 

Fourth Level: charm monster, contusion, 
dimension door T hallucinatory terrain, 
ice storm/wall, polymorph self , 
remove curse, wizard eye 

Fifth Level; conjure elemental, hold mon 
ster, pass-wall, teleport, wall of stone 

Sixth Level: anti-magic shell * invisible 
stalker, projected image 

If character continue to explore the wiz 
ard's home, he monitors their actions from 
this room by using clairvoyance or wizard 
eye . If things get really sticky for h im* he tele 
ports into town* taking his spell book with 
him. 

Tharadodus can trigger the trap described 
in area 71 from this room. A metal lever rests 
5 feet up in the center of the west walk The 
lever is in the UP position. If characters pull 
the lever down, go to area 71. 

The wizard keeps all of his magical trea 
sures here. If characters check under the bed* 
they find a box containing one potion of every 
type (p/36* Expert rule book), a scroll of pro 
tection from undead, a crystal ball, an efreeti 
bottle* guantiers of ogre power, a horn of 
blasting, a rope of climbing, a dagger *2 f a 
sword *1 (*3 vs. dragons)* a staff of healing, 
and a wand of secret door detection (12 
charges left). Characters may also find a 
pouch containing 350 gp, 522 gp, and 278 pp. 

68, CORRIDOR 

Tharadodus uses this hallway to get from his 
bedroom (area 69) to his workshop (area 66). 
A secret passage leads from the south end of 
this hallway to a set of hidden stairs (areas 70 
and 71). 

69. THARADODUS 1 BEDROOM 


This room is warm and cozy. A plush bed 
sits in the northeast comer* covered by 
beautiful blankets and quilts. Majestic 
tapestries depicting strange creatures line 
the walls, and thick fur rugs carpet the 
floor. Gems set into the walls illuminate 
the room. 

A 16-foot-tall giant statue stands along 
the south wall. The statue looks like a fire 
giant. Its eyes follow you around the 
room It holds a 4-foot-Iong staff. 


This is Tharadodus' bedroom. h not here 
when the characters enter. Characters even- 


26 





ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


tually notice that the room's heat source is the 
giant. The giant does not move or attack 
unless the characters attack it. It stands in 
front of the hole that transmits the sound of 
the Dragonncs' roars from areas 54 and 15, 
The giant blocks the hole from view. The 
gems in the walls arc continual light gems. 

The giant is a bronze golem. It cannot 
leave this room. If a character hits it with an 
edged weapon, there is a 30% chance that its 
fiery blood starts the mgs and tapesmes on 
fire. The golem holds Tharadodus' stall'of 
wizardry In its hands. 

Bronze Golem: AC 0; HD 20**; hp 65: MV 
240 r (80 f ); #AT J fist * special: D 3-30 * 
special; Save FlQ; ML 12; AL N; XP 
4,300 

70. SECRET PASSAGE 

This passage leads to the stairs in area 71. 

71. HIDDEN STAIRCASE 

The staircase in the passageway leads down 
to area 37, Beyond the staircase, the passage* 
way slopes upward to the east. The walls here 
are very wet. 

The passageway is a Lrap that Tharadodus 
can trigger from area 67, Dahnakriss the 
Master Thief may also trigger this trap from 

area 88. 

If either one releases the trap (by pulling 
the lever down), a great sheet of water tum 
bles down from a reservoir on Level IV (area 
91). Any character on the stairs when the 
water is released is washed down the stairs 
(area 37) and into the lake (area 38). 


Level IV: The home of the 
heartstone 

(Use Map 6.) 

Encounter key 

72. GRAY OOZE 


This hallway is 30 feet long and 20 feel 
high, A door stands at rhe end of the hall 
way. 


A secret door thaL leads to area 73 stands in 
the middle of the cast wall. 

The northernmost ] 0 feet of the hallway in 
front of the door provides a home for gray 
ooze, The ooze lies in a depressed area of the 
floor. 

Gray Ooze: AC 8; HD 3\ hp 18; MV 10' 

' {3 *); #AT I; D 2-16-special: Save F2; 
ML 12; ALN; XP 50 

The door at the end of lhe hallway is a one 
way door that opens onto area 74. 

73. BYPASS 

This passageway has secret doors on both 
ends. The east door leads to area 86, Contin 
ual light gems along the south wall illuminate 
the passageway, 

74. THE GAUNTLET 


This Jong hallway runs cast and wcsl. To 
the west, the hallway runs for 20 feci and 
then apparently ends, A large statue of a 
fire giant stands in a niche ai ihe west end 
of the hallway. The niche has been carved 
so that the giant fits perfectly into it. The 
giant*s eyes stare straight ahead. 

To the east, die hallway stretches for 60 
feet before ending in darkness. The ceil 
ing here is 20 feet high. Hundreds of 1- 
inch holes dot the floor and ceiling. A 
6-inch-wide curb runs along each wall, 
rising 2 inches above the floor. Hie hall 
way seems to slope upward slightly. 


The Curb is too narrow for characters to walk 
along normally. A character cannot walk on 
the curbs by straddling the hallway, either, as 
the hallway is 10 feel wide. If characters waul 
to walk along the curbs, they must come up 
with a unique manner of doing so. Use your 
judgment concerning the characters 1 success 
in maneuvering along the curbs. 


75, BRONZE GOLEM 

This creature is hot to the touch. It do cs not 
move at all until the stone roller from area 84 
rolls down to this end of the hallway The 
golem steps from its niche and uses its hands 
to push the roller back up the hallway. It 
pushes the roller until it locks in place at area 
84. The golem walks only on the curbs. It can 
do so because it is 16 feet tall and is very 
strong. 

The golem cannot talk. If a character hits 
the golem with edged weapons, rhe attacking 
character must make a saving throw vs, death 
ray. If the character's throw fails, he takes 2d6 
poims of damage from the golem's fiery 
blood. 

Bronze Golem: AC 0; HD 20**; hp 110; MV 
240' (8tr);#AX 1 fist * special; D3-30* 
special; Save FlQ; ML 12; AL N; XP 
4,300 

The golem carries no treasure. 

76. PIT TRAP 

This pit trap extends across the hallway from 
curb to curb. If a character walks on the trap, 
he falls through it into an icy stream that 
flows rapidly into the reservoir (area 91). 
The trapdoor springs shut as soon as some 
one has fallen through it. Characters cannot 
detect the trapdoor's presence by tapping on 
the floor, because the trapdoor does not open 
unless at least 100 pounds of weight crosses it. 

Allow each character a 50% chance to 
jump back or get pulled back from the trap 
door before falling through it. 

The icy stream runs down from an opening 
in the top of the cliff. 

77* DART TRAP 

False wooden doors stand on eac h side of the 
hallway here. 

If characters hit or jar the doors in any way. 
darts shoot out of the floor and ceiling in the 
20-fooi-long area just to the west of the doors. 
On Map 6, the area of darts is denoted by 
shading. 

Up to four darts may hit each character. 
Roll to hit as if a 5 Hit Dice monster had fired 
the dans. Each dan does ld4 points of dam- 
age. 

78- ROLLER TRAP 

False wooden doors stand on each side of the 
hallway here, 

If characters hit or jar the doors in any way, 


27 




ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


the stone roller at area 84 starts rolling slowly 
down the hallway at the rate of 20 feet per 
round . If characters start the roller down the 
hallway, Dahnakriss is alerted to the charac 
ters* presence in his home. 

Because the roller is so far away, the char 
acters do not immediately see it. However, 
they do hear the sound of grinding stone 
growing louder and louder. 

The only things that might possibly stop 
the roller are a conjured elemental > a bronze- 
golem, or a disintegrate spell. To avoid the 
massive stone, the characters must either fly 
or /evirate. They may also duck into the room 
in area 79. 

The roller is 15 fee* in diameter. Hand 
holds are carved into its outer circumference 
at 3-foot intervals. The stone rolls along the 
curb so that it docs not get stuck in the other 
traps in the hallway. 

When the roller reaches the west end of the 
hallway, the bronze golem begins pushing it 
back to area 84 at the rate of 10 feet per 
round. 

Any character caught under the roller loses 
most of his height and all of his hit points. 

Characters may find a safe spot to avoid 
the roller at the feet of die golem (area 75), as 
the roller stops JO feet in from of the golem. 
The spot won't be safe for long, Lhough, as 
any characters at the golem's feet when it 
begins pushing the stone roller back up Lhc 
hallway lake 2d6 points of damage. 

79, WATER TRAP 


i( Tem the dile, 3 ' h written in Common on 
the door to this room. The door is made of 
wood, and has no knob or pullring. A 
wooden dial rests in the center of the door, 
and an arrow pointing to the left has been 
scratched on the dial. 


If characters turn the dial so the arrow points 
to the right, they can push the door open. If 
they do so, read the following boxed text to 
the players. 


The fungus-cove red walls of this 3Q-foot- 
square room extend 15 feet to the ceiling, 
which is also covered with fungus. A 5- 
foot-square wooden door has been built 
into the ceiling. This trapdoor has a circu 
lar dial similar to the one on the door to 
the room. Dark scratches mar the ceiling 
near the trapdoor. A 2-foot-square iron 
grate lies in the floor along the east wall. 
The sound of rushing water gurgles up 
from below. 


As soon as characters enter this room, the 
door springs shut and water starts rushing in 
from holes in the northwest comer of the ceil 
ing. The characters could not see these holes 
because they had been covered with fungus. 

The iron grate is actually a drain. This 
drain cannot handle all of the water that is 
rushing in, so the water level in the room 
begins to rise at the rate of 1 fool per round. 
The water level continues to rise until it 
reaches 14 feet. It rises no higher than that. 
Characters wearing plate armor sink if they 
do not take the armor off. All other characters 
can tread water. 

If a character turns the dial on the trapdoor 
in die ceiling, the door falls down, doing Idh 
points ol damage to anyone who was beneath 
it A large zombie crocodile falls into the 
room from a small stone compartment above. 

Large Zombie Crocodile: AC 3; HD 7; hp 
^ 35; MV 90 1 (30*); #AT 1 bite; D 2-16; 

Save F3; ML 12; AL C; XP 275 

The crocodile is immune to sleep and charm 
spells. 

The compartment from which the crocodile 
fell is empty. 

The water level in the room begins to lower 
after 10 minutes. It lowers at the rate of 1 foot 
per minute. 

As soon as all of the water is gone, the char 
acters can open the door to the hallway. If 
characters enter this room a second time 5 the 
door does not stick, and the room does not 1111 
up with water. 

80. DARTS AGAIN 


A wooden door stands on. each side of the 
hallway here. Small circular holes dot the 
walls to the west of these doors. 


If characters hit or jar the doors in any way, 
darts shoot out of the wail in the 10-ibot-long 
area just to the east of the doors. On Map 6. 
the area of darts is denoted by shading. Use 
the details in area 77 for dan damage, 

81. MORE OOZE 

The floor here may look like stone, but it in 
actually another gray ooze Just pretending to 
be an area of floor. 

Gray Ooze: AC 8; HD 3*; hp 16; MV 10' 
{3J; #AT 1; D 2-16 * special; Save F2; 
ML 12; AL N; XP 50 

The ooze has no treasure. 


82* PIT TRAP 

This trap is the same as the one in area 76. 

83, DUCK! 

This area is fhe same as area 80, except that, 
if characters hit or jar the doors, the dam fly 
out of the wails in a IQ-foot-square area 20 
feet west of the doors. On Map fi, the area of 
darts is denoted by shading. Use the details 
given in area 77 for dart damage. 

84* STONE ROLLER 

If characters hit nr jarred the doors at area 
78, they started this huge stone roller on its 
path down the hallway. The bronze golem 
from area 75 slowly pushes the roller back up 
the hallway after it reaches the west end 
When the roller is in place, it blocks the 
entrance to a locked door that leads south Into 
the Home of the Heartsttme (area 87). 

85. BRONZE GOLEM 

This bronze golem is hot to the touch. He 
does not move at all until all of Lhe characters 
have passed through the door that leads to 
area 86. Once characters have passed, the 
golem slams the door shut and stands in front 
of it. allowing no one to pass. The golem does 
not move away from the door for any reason. 

If a character hits the golem with edged 
weapons, the attacking character must make 
a saving throw vs. death ray. If the charac 
ter's throw fails, he takes 2dG points of dam 
age from the golem's fiery blood. See area 75 
for bronze golem statistics, 

86. ENTRANCE CORRIDOR 

"--- 

Continual light gems illuminate this 
dean, 30-foot-long hallway, The words, 
"Make peace with yourself now, before it j 
is too late'* are shaped into the metal door 
that stands at the south end of the hallw ay 


A secret door in the west wal! of this hallway 
opens into a secret passageway (area 73). 

87, HOME OF THE HEARTSTONE 

Show the players Illustration 12 if the charac 
ters enter this room from the north. If charac 
ters enter this room from area 89, ihey are 
probably charing Dahnakriss. However, the 
characters still have the same encounter in 
this area as they would if they had entered 
from the north. The only change would be 
that Dahnaight would not be present. 


28 








ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


Read the following boxed text to the play 
ers as the characters enter the room. 


A burst of hot air rushes out of the room, 
A bright glow fills the hallway, and burn 
ing red light bathes the room. There is no 
furniture in this room, except for a semi 
circular platform that stands against the 
south wall. 

The platform stands 1 foot off the floor. 
A circular dais rises 2 feet from the center 
of the platform. Atop the dais rests a black 
stone obelisk. 

The obelisk appears to be an ornately 
carved totem. A sculpted hand rests atop 
the totem, its palm open. Imbedded in the 
palm of the hand is a glowing, red stone. 
The stone is heart-shaped. Two bronze 
statues stand on each side of the dais. 
They do not move. 

A feeling of warmth seems to rush 
through the room. A voice coming from 
the direction of the obelisk says, "Enter, 
brave ones. have run the gauntlet and 
so deserve to bathe in the healing rays of 
the heart.' 1 


Tell the characters at this point that they 
indeed begin to feel very good, and that their 
wounds begin to heal. Then continue reading 
this description to the players. (If characters 
enter from area 89, skip this boxed text. TM 
the characters that red humanoid figures 
begin to form in die red light of the heart- 
stone,) 


Minutes later, a dark form steps from 
behind the obelisk. The human figure is 
thin and muscular. He has a short beard 
and mustache. He places one hand on the 
heartstone, As shadowy fingers of dark- 
ness divide the room, red humanoid fig 
ures begin to form in the red light. 


The bearded figure is Dahnakriss. 

Dahnakriss the Master Thief: AC 9; T 14; hp 
49; MV 120 # (40*); #AT 1 weapon; D 
by weapon; SaveTl4; ML 12; AL C 

Dahnakriss may attack with a sword *1 
[locate objects), a poison-tipped dagger *2 , 
and a scroll with two 14 Hit Dice lightning 
bolts. His defenses include leather +3, a ring 
of protection */, a scroll of teleport t and a 
ring of spell turning , 

The characters begin to fed sick. Whai feel 
like electric shocks wrack their bodies. The 
humanoid figures have gelled into exact 
duplicates of the characters. 


All of the characters have healed 100%, 
The wave of nausea passes, and they feel bet' 
ter. They know that some mysterious force 
has healed them, 

A sudden compulsion overtakes the char 
acters, Each character feels drawn to lighting 
hi$ double. Characters cannot resist this com 
pulsion, no matter how hard they fight it. 
The magic of the heartstone has caused this 
awful dilemma. 

Each character's double has an alignment 
opposite to that character's alignment. Law 
ful and Neutral characters have Chaotic dou 
bles, while Chaotic characters have Lawful 
doubles. 

Secretly tell the characters who can cast 
spells that they suddenly remember all of the 
day's spells, but that they should not tell this 
to the other characters. 

Just before the characters engage their 
doubles in combat, read the following boxed 
text to the players (ignore if characters 
entered from area 89), 


The dark figure standing near the obelisk 
mutters* fl Darn! Never thought I'd have 
to leave the stone behind. Guess I'll have 
to steal it again . " Then he disappears 

behind a secret door in the south wall and 
says to the golems, L 'Let no one pass 
through this door!" 


The characters' compulsion to attack then- 
doubles grows to fever pitch. Loyalty to the 
quest now depends upon each character's 
alignment. Explain to Lawful characters that 
if they defeat their doubles, their alignment 
remains Lawful, and they continue to help 
the group fulfill its quest. Explain to Chaotic 
characters that if they defeat their doubles, 
their alignment remains Chaotic, and they 
wish to take the heartstone for themselves. If 
a Lawful character loses to his double, that 
character's alignment becomes Chaotic. If a 
Chaotic character loses to his double, that 
character's alignment becomes Lawful. 

From this point on t characters are unable 
to distinguish their friends from their friends' 
doubles. Characters should not discuss their 
actual alignments from now on, 

Duplicate characters have all of the same 
equipment and abilities as ihe actual charac 
ters, except that duplicates have 10 fewer hit 
points than actual characters. Once a charac 
ter or double is slain, the victim vanishes for 
ever. But, if the double is victorious, that 
character's alignment changes, and he gains 
back all of his hit points (including the ID 
point bonus characters had over their dou 
bles), Victorious characters are fully healed, 
but not until after all of the battles have 
ended. 


IF* for some reason, a character and his 
double are prevented from fighting, the dou 
ble vanishes mysteriously. 

Run these unique combats so that in each 
case, either a character or his double survives 
the battle. Characters may suffer a change of 
alignment because of this encounter, but they 
should not be totally eliminated, 

As soon as a character has resolved his 
individual battle, he may either pursue 
Dahnakriss or try to steal the heartstone for 
himself (depending on his alignment). 

With some difficulty, the characters are 
able to remove the heartstone from the hand 
atop the obelisk. Any character who touches 
the sLone has the power of ESP , and is able to 
read the thoughts nf the other characters. The 
character touching the stone is then able to 
indirectly determine if any of the characters 
have new alignments. The character cannot 
figure out any of the stone's other powers. 
The two bronze golems defend to the death 
the secret door that leads to area 88, but they 
do not stray from the door. A hole in the wall 
next to the secret door also leads to area 88 
Dahnakriss uses this hole if he needs to escape 
the heartstone room in gaseous form, 

Brornce Golems (2): AG 0; HD 20**; hp 1(10, 
98; MV 24(L (80'); #\T 1 fisc*special; 
D 3-30 + special; Save F10; ML 12; AL 
N; XP 4,300 

These golems have no treasure. 

As the characters leave this room for the 
last lime, the heartstone fully heals them one 
last time. 

SB. LAIR OF THE MASTER THIEF 


Riches and rarities fill this luxurious 
room. The sweet smell of incense fills Lhe 
air. Expensive tapestries and carvings 
hang on the wall, and exotic furs cover the 
floor. A carved wooden bed sits in the 
northwest comer, covered with fine silk 
and satin sheets, 

A metal lever is set into the south wall. 
It is in the UP position. 


If characters pull the metal lever down, the 
trapdoor in area 90 flies open, and water 
from the reservoir (area 91) washes anyone 
in areas 90, 71, and 37 into the lake (area 
38). If the secret door to area 89 is open, 
water floods that area also. 

If the characters enter this room from area 
87. Dahnakriss is gone. If the characters 
enter from area 89, Dahnakriss flees through 
areas 87, 86, 73, and 72, and heads for the 
wd Levator. He then tries to escape through 
the openings on the diff face. 


29 







ADVENTURE IN THE HEART OF THE CLIFF 


If Dahnakriss has had a chance to take his 
treasure (while characters are lighting their 
doubles in area 87), the characters may ran 
sack this room. The entire contents of the 
room is worth about 37,000 gp. There is no 
way that characters can get away with every 
thing in this room. Allow the characters eo 
take, any number of coins they can carry. 
There are no magic items in this room. Dis 
courage the characters from trying to get 
away with bulky objects like tapestries, how 
ever 

If Dahnakriss did not get a chance to take 
his treasure {if characters surprised him by 
entering from area 89), the characters may 
find a secret compartment in the east wall 
behind a tapestry. It contains a pouch that 
holds 123 gems (each worth 1,000 gp) ( a ring 
of x-ray vision t and a ring of invisibility. Also 
in the compart mem are hoofs of speed, and a 
neatly folded displacer cloak. 

Behind a tapestry that hangs on the south 
wail T a hole leads to area 89. 

89. THIEF'S PASSAGE 

This passage connects areas 88 and 90. A 
list-sized hole in the south wall leads to the 
Dragonnes' lair (area 54), A secret door in 
the west wall leads to area 90 Several boxes 
are stacked along the cast wall of this area. 

If he Ls in gaseous form, Dahnakriss may 
escape through the hole in the south wall to 
the Dragonnes* lair. 


Dahnakriss keeps the following items in 
boxes here: two 50-foot coils of rope T two 
days' worth of dried rations, two bottles of 
wine t a large blanket* a knife, a short sword 
*1 % iwo flasks of oil, a underbox, a torch, a 
leather backpack, four large sacks, and a very 
moldy loaf of what might have been bread. 

The large blanket is a /lying' carpet. Char 
acters must use detect magic to determine 
that the blanket is magic. Characters may use 
the same spell to determine that the rug's 
command word has been sewn with thread 
into a seam on the rug (make up your own 
command word for the blanket). 

Rolled up inside the blanket are mo com 
plete changes of men's clothing, and an ordi 
nary cloak. 

Ef Dahnakriss escaped through this area, 
the following items are no longer here: the 
Hying carpet , the clothes, the rations, the 
wine, and the short sword * 1. 

90, WATER TRAP 

A wide hallway leads from a landing in this 
area down toward the southwest A huge, fr- 
foot-square trapdoor is fit into the northwest 
wall of this room. The door is hinged at the 
top, and it is leaking water ai the bottom. The 
water drips down into a drainage crack in the 
floor. 

Ef any character tries to open the trapdoor, 
there is a 1 in 6 chance per round that it 
bursts open* gushing water and washing 


everyone down the hallway. The water car 
ries the characters to area 71* and then down 
to the lake (area 38). 

91- RESERVOIR 

The only way characters could have gotten 
into this area is by falling into a pit at area 76 
or 82, 

Allow characters who are in heavy armor 
to remove their armor and swim in the reser 
voir. These characters permanently lose their 
armor. 

A glowing fungus that grows on the 10- 
foot-high ceiling above the reservoir dimly 
Illuminates this area. 

The water that flow's into this area spills 
out over a rock rim to the west and in through 
a hole in the shaft at area 63, The water then 
spills down that shaft through a hole in the 
ceiling of the lake (area 38). 

A narrow tunnel runs from the reservoir 
south to a large, 6-foot-square wooden door. 
If a character swims underwater near this 
door, he finds pullrhains in the water. If he 
pulls the chains* the door opens* letting loose 
a torrent of rushing water. If this happens* 
anyone in the reservoir is washed all the way 
down to the underground lake (area 38), 
Each character who is washed dowm to the 
lake takes 2d6 points of damage. 

Opening this door only lowers the reser 
voir 5 feet* and this new water level is only 
temporary. 


30 






ROPER 

Armor Class: 0 
Hit Dice: 12**' 

Move: 30' {10') 

Attacks: 1 bite/6 strands 
Damage; 5-30/weakness 
No, Appearing: 1-3 (2-5) 

Save As: Fighter: 10 
Morale: 10 
Treasure Type: Lx5 
Alignment: Chaotic 
XP Value: 3.500 

A roper is a long (or tall) bloblike creature 
that has one eye, a mouth below, and six long 
tentacles along the body. Ropers usually live 
in rocky caverns where they can rake the 
shape of tall rocks or stalagmites, but they 
may occasionally be found in woods, imitat 
ing trees, Ropers eat anything that moves, 
but they prefer humans and humanoids. 

A roper has six long tentacles. Each can 
shoot out 60 feet to grab prey, The touch of a 
roper's strand causes weakness, which cuts 
the victim's Strength in half for 3 turns (no 
saving throw). The strand wraps tightly 
around the prey, pulling the victim toward its 


mouth; only the bite causes damage. Charac 
ters can cut a strand only if a single blow from 
an edged magic weapon inflicts 5 or more 
points of damage. Such a blow makes that 
strand useless, but the damage does not count 
against the monster's hit points. Damaged 
strands grow back in 24 hours. 


Ropers are immune to all first, second, and 
third level spells, to all forms of cold and 
Hghming, and to normal and silver weapons. 
Characters may occasionally find treasure in 
ropers' stomachs. 


NEW MONSTERS 


The Dragonne has the head of a lion and the 
body of a small gold dragon. It fights wuh its 
claws and bite, but its greatest weapon is its 
fearsome roar 

Any character within 120 feet of a Dra 
gonne when it roars must make a saving 
throw vs. dragon breath or flee in fear for 2 
rounds, The Dragonne*3 roar deafens any 
creatures within 30 feet. Deafened creatures 
suffer a -2 penalty to their hit rolls for 2d6 
rounds. Dragonnes can roar once every 3 
rounds. Anyone who stays within 30 feet of a 
Dragonne after it roars again does not suffer 
any additional hit roll penalty, but he may 
suffer the original penalty for up to 12 
rounds. The Dragonne cannot bite in the 
same round it roars. 


Monster 


Armor Class: 3 
Hit Dice: 8* 

Move: 150' (50') 

Attacks; 2 claws/1 bite or roar 
Damage: 1-6/1-6/4-24 or roar 
No. Appearing: I (1-4) 

Save As: Fighter: 3 
Morale: 8 
Treasure Type: E 
Alignment: Neutral 
XP Value: l t 2G0 


31 




HOOK HORROR 1 * Monster 

Armor Class: 2 
Hit Dice: 5 
Move: 90' (30"> 

Attacks: 2 claws/1 beak 
Damage; 1-8/1-8/3 18 
No. Appearing: 2-12 (0) 

Save As: Fighter: 5 
Morale: 8 
Treasure Type: K 
Alignment: Neutral 
XP Value: 175 

This large, powerful creature has a vulture- 
like head and thick, rhinohke skin. Its arms 
end in one sharp, hooking talon. It lives 
mostly in underground dungeons and cav 
erns. 

The Hook Horror's vision is poor, bur its 
hearing is extremely good (only a 1 in 10 
chance of being surprised). Hook Horrors do 
not speak, but communicate with each other 
by making codelike clicking noises with their 
tajons. Hook Horrors are not very smart. 


A dragonfly is a magical crossbreed between 
the insect form of the creature (1-4 inches 
long) and normal dragons of all types, A 
monster dragonfly appears similar TO a nor 
mal dragonfly, but is 3 to 4 feet long. There 
are five different colors of giant dragonfly 
each having a breath weapon that corres 
ponds to the larger dragon version (red-fire, 
blue-lightning, etc,). 

Unlike full-sized dragons, the breath 
weapon of a dragonfly inflicts only 1 point of 
daoiager per Hit Die of the monster, and each 
breath is only 3 feet long. Each breath nor 
mally affects only one creature, but a saving 
throw (for % h damage) is only allowed if the 
victim is not fighting the monster *" 
those in hand-to-hand combat have 111 J -7a V 
throw against the breath. Each dragonfly can 
breathe and bite during each round of com 
bat, and there is no limit to their number of 
breaths. 

Dragonflies dan around very quickly, and 
are hard to hit. They have only animal intelli 
gence, and never talk or use spells. They may 
be found nearly anywhere except mountains: 
they prefer warm climates that have plenty of 


DRAGONFLY 


White 


Black 


Green 


Blue 


Red 


Armor Class: 
Hit Dice: 

Move 

Flying: 

Attacks: 
Damage: 

No, Appearing; 
Save As: 
Morale: 
Treasure Type: 
Alignment; 

Exp, Pts: 


ld6/3 


Fighter: 3 
8 


ld6/3 


Fighter: 3 

8 


0 

4 

- 60 ' ( 20 ') - 

240' (80') - 

bite/1 breath 

Id6/4 

1-4(3-18} - 
Fighter:4 
8 

- Any - 

- Neutral - 

73 


ld6/4 


Fighter: 4 
9 


ld6/5 


Fighter: 5 
9 


9114XXX1501 


32 



Mists of the Northern Marsh 



' in ¦ .- i 

(r)mk<£c. 




ISHift 


#-"&• 

¦/¦be# 




"1~ 

s 

A 


" 

t" <g 

















































































































V 























°I984 TSR, Tne. All Rightt Reserved. 















Map 2 

Perils of the Icewater Falls 


N 

Scale: 1 inch = 20 feet 


Area 9 




* 19"4 TSR. Inc. A1J Rights Reserved. 















Expert Game Adventure 

Quest for the Heartstone 

by Michael L. Gray 


The king is dead! 

And the queen is in trouble. She has chosen you to 
find the fabled heartstone, which is buried some 
where deep in the Mountains of Ice. 

!s the gem in the hands of the corrupt Master Thief? 
Has he harnessed its powers for his own vile pur 
poses? Or does it lie unguarded in the frozen ranges 
to the north, which teem with horrible creatures? 

This is your kind of quest! 

Quest for the Heartstone is a combined wilderness/ 
dungeon adventure designed to be compatible with 
the ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS 1 " Action 
Toys from LJN Toys, Ltd, and the ADVANCED DUN 
GEONS & DRAGONS(tm) Fantasy Adventure Figures 
from TSR, inc. The adventure also includes complete 
maps, new monsters, and players' illustrations. 

Will the heartstone be the key to peace in the king 
dom? By her majesty's request , . . It's up to you to 
find out! 


This adventure is for use with the DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS'* Expert Set, which complements 
and expands the D&D- Basic rules. This adven 
ture cannot be played without the DSD(r) Basic 
and Expert rules produced by TSR, Inc, 

* 1904 TSR, Inc, All fights Reserved. Printed in tl,S*A. 

TSR, Inc. TSR (UK) Ltd. 

POB 756 The Mill, Rathmore Road 

Lake Geneva, Cambridge CB14AD 

W1 53147 United Kingdom 


ISBN 0-88038-11 1-6 
394-54000-XTSR0600 





















