Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09169 I 8 Ravager Of Time"
See other formats
An Adventure for 6-10 Characters of Levels 8-10 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, A DSD. PRODUCTS OF YOOR IM AGINATION and the TSR logo are 
trademarks owned by TSR Inc 


ryrv^ji 


--i :*7 

hl m i 



ka 


L, 







Adventure Module from the UK for 6-10 characters of levels 8-10 



by Graeme Morris and Jim Bambra 



Production: 

Cover Art: 
Internal Art: 
Cartography: 
Proofreading: 

Typesetting: 


Phil Gallagher & 
TSR UK Design Team 
Jeff Anderson 
Tim Sell 
Geoff Wingate 
Carole Morris, 
MikeBrunton 
Dawn Buxton & 
Phil Gallagher 


Distributed to the book trade by Random House. Inc . and in 
Canada by Random House of Canada. Ltd. Distributed to the toy 
and hobby industry by regional distributors. Distributed in the 
United Kingdom by TSR UK Ltd. 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. AD&D, PRODUCTS 
OF YOUR IMAGINATION, and the TSR logo are registered 
trademarks owned by TSR. Inc. 

(c) May 1986 TSR. Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in USA. 

This adventure is protected under the copyright laws of the 
United States of America. Any reproduction or other un 
authorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva 
WI 53147 
USA 


TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill 
Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB1 4AD 


United Kingdom. 


TSR, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION" 


ISBN 394-55421-3 
9169 

Printed in the USA 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


2; Using the Module 3 


4; 

5; 


INTRODUCTION 

The Ffenargh 2; Nuala 

COURT AT EYLEA 
The Fens 4; Island of Holm 
Ffenargh Optional Encounters 
Eylea 6; Trial for Murder 7 

CHILL OFF THE FEN 

Preparing the Jury 8; 

Lea Island & the Kaldefen 9; Myrk Island & Sphagbog 9; 
Defenders of Myrkfast 10; 

Lorge Island & Corpsemire 10; A New Life? 12 

RETURN TO EYLEA 

ij A Mixed Welcome 15; Freeing Clavados 15 

BACK TO THE FENS 

Events in the Vipen-Slough 17; Vipen-Isle 18 

IMAGES OF DEATH 

A Foretaste of Evil 20; Welcome to Eylea 21; 

Nuala's Return 22; 

Calm After the Storm 23; Monsters at Eylea 23 

NEW MONSTERS 

Slime Golem; Life-Bane Duplicates 24 

PULL-OUT SHEETS between pages 12 & 13 

Eylea MI 

Non-Player Characters: Eylea' NPCs III-IV 

Non-Player Characters: Eylea' Defence 
Non-Player Characters: Nuala & Rughlor 


8 


15 


17 


20 


24 


Life-Bane 


V 

VI 

VII-VIII 


LIST OF MAPS AND TABLES 


Map F - Ffenargh 

Map E - Eylea 

Map M - Myrkfast 

Map L - Lorge Hall 

Map V - Vyedma's Homestead 


Outside of Cover 

Inside of Cover 
Inside of Cover 
Inside of Cover 
Inside of Cover 


Table 1 - Ffenargh Optional Encounters 
Table 2 - Life-Bane Ageing 


page 5 
Pull-out Sheet VIII 












The flower of youth... a precious thing, yet only 
those to whom it is but a memory can measure 
its true value. Take heed, bold wanderers, you 
who pass the best of your years in pursuit of 
shallow glory. Take heed, for youth's flower is 
delicate also - and easily crushed. 

The harsh life in the dank, misty bogs of 
the Ffenargh has ever made the fenfolk old 
before their time, but now a far greater evil 
lurks amid the stagnant pools. The evil 
wizardess Nuala has returned from beyond 
the grave - armed with the power to drain 
the vitality of any who oppose her, leaving 
them old and wizened. This is the fate in 
store for your adventurers - aged horribly, 
they must struggle with their infirmities to 
overcome Nuala... the Ravager of Time! 

The Ffenargh 

The setting of this adventure - the Ffenargh 
- is a region of chill, gloomy fen. Those 
few humans who eke out a meagre living 
here, live in squalid villages on small 
"islands" of dry land surrounded by marsh. 
The region is ruled by the Lords Spiritual from 


their decrepit temple/palace of Eylea (see 
PS I-II). To keep order, they have an army 
commanded by the Lord High Bailiff - 
the cavalier Clavados. 


Nuala 

Many years ago, Rughlor, middle-aged 
Master of Lorge (one of the Ffenargh 
manors), went in search of a wife. 
Although of noble birth, he looked old 
beyond his forty years, his fenland holdings 
were notoriously drab and unwholesome, 
and it seemed that he had little to offer any 
bride. It came as some surprise then, when 
he returned home wedded to the young and 
beautiful daughter of a baron from the 
mountain steadings. 

The girl, named Nuala, was barely 
seventeen, but her fair looks and apparent 
devotion to Rughlor hid a will to evil that 
was already old. Against her father's 
wishes, Nuala had inveigled a skilled 
magician to teach her the rudiments of 
magic use, and was determined to acquire 
greater power. 


Even before Rughlor's arrival, Nuala's 
researches had taught her of Lorge - 
which, according to rumour, was built on 
the site of the infamous library of the semi 
legendary wizard Makhrazt. Thus, a 
marriage proposal from the doting 
Rughlor offered Nuala not only freedom, 
but also the chance to seek out the wizard's 
lost tomes. This was an opportunity she 
had to seize - even if it meant feigning love 
for a haggard old man. 

Life at Lorge 

Life in the Ffenargh, Nuala soon dis 
covered, exacted a heavy toll - as evinced 
by Lorge Hall's servants who, although 
often little older than herself, were bent and 
wizened. Even so, the lure of Makhrazt's 
books was strong, and Nuala resolved to 
stay until she found them. 

By her thirtieth birthday, however, Nuala 
too had the appearance of someone three 
times her age. Yet her moment of triumph 
was at hand, for she succeeded in finding 
Makhrazt's hidden library. At long last the 


2 INTRODUCTION 










power she sought was within her grasp, if 
she could but complete a fearful ritual 
described in the books. 

Only just in time, Rughlor, himself old 
and frail beyond his years, realised what his 
wife was about to do. As the evil ritual 
commenced, and the very walls began to 
crumble around him, he summoned his 
remaining strength and struckdown Nuala 
before she could complete the spell. 

Next day, the servants who had fled in 
terror, returned to the ruins of Lorge Hall. 
There they found Rughlor and Nuala 
locked together in an embrace of death - 
the ashes of Makhrazt's books scattered 
around them. Hurriedly, the servants 
buried the couple in the cellars and then, by 
common consent, abandoned the hall and 
its lands forever. 


The Gentle Scholar 

The memory of Nuala passed into local 
folk-lore, in which she was described as a 
radiantly beautiful sorceress murderedby a 
wicked husband. The tale held a particular 
fascination for Miles D'Arcy, the scholarly 
son of Geoffrey D'Arcy - Master of Myrk 
(one of the Ffenargh manors) - and, 
through his studies of local history, he 
discovered where her body lay. 

Had he been wiser, the story would have 
ended here, but infatuation makes fools of 
the cleverest of men, and he resolved to 
restore Nuala to life. To this end, he hired a 
thief to steal a holy relic - the Robe of Ulm 
- from the palace of Eylea, and using its 
ancient power, Miles secretly resurrected 
the long-dead sorceress. But the woman 
who greeted him was far from his expect 
ations. Not only was Nuala thoroughly 
evil, but her resurrection had completed 
the spell begun so long ago and now she 
wielded the awesome power of life-bane 
(seePSVII), enablingher to drain theyouth 
and vigour of humankind into magical 
duplicates (see p24), obedient to her will. 

The unfortunate Miles was Nuala's first 
victim, and for his pains he was left old, 
haggard and helpless. When she discovered 
from his duplicate how things now stood 
in the Ffenargh, she soon contrived a 
fiendish scheme of revenge and conquest. 

First, the duplicate Miles murdered the old 
lord Geoffrey and dumped the body in the 
fen with the intention, soon fulfilled, that 
the body would be found and the duplicate 
Miles arrested by the Lord High Bailiff 
Clavados. The plan worked perfectly, for, 
as Nuala shrewdly predicted, Clavados was 
unable to procure enough evidence for a 
conviction and was forced to send abroad 
for powerful help. The help of a certain 
party of adventurers... 




Nuala's Scheme 

Nuala's burning ambition is to overthrow 
the Lords of Eylea and make herself 
mistress of the Lfenargh. Lor this she needs 
allies, and powerful ones at that - hence 
the luring of a powerful party by means of 
Miles' trial. Once the trial begins, the 
duplicate Miles can insist that the advent 
urers become a Jury of Inquisition, and 
thus be obliged to follow through the 
investigation of the murder to the end. 
Such an investigation must inevitably lead 
the adventurers to Lorge Hall where she 
has laid a trap that cannot fail! Nuala plans 
to create obedient duplicates of the adven 
turers and to go with these to Eylea, leaving 
the originals imprisoned. At Eylea, the 
duplicates can declare the (duplicate) Miles 
innocent and free him. Then, all that will 
remain is a journey into the infamous 
Vipen Slough to recruit the allies that will 
enable her to attack and overwhelm Eylea. 

Using the Module 

Involving the Party 

The Ffenargh is a dismal, uninviting 
place, which probably means that you, as 
DM, will have to provide a definite reason 
for the PCs to go there: 

- Straightforward Hiring: The party hears 
from somebody acting on behalf of the 
Lords of Eylea that they are looking for 
help in the investigation of a murder. 

- Call to Duty/Coercion: Deities have not 
been named deliberately, and you should 
assign a suitable LN type from your 
campaign to be worshipped at Eylea. 
Clerics belonging to the same church/ 
religion as the Lords Spiritual (or those 
owing a debt to it - e.g. having been 
raised or healed) are told that it is their 
"duty" to help. Cavaliers in an order 
linked to Clavados' might experience 
similar pressures. If they are reluctant, 
coercion may be used (e.g. threats to 
withdraw training facilities) or even 
magic (e.g. quest or geas spells). 

- Family Ties: One of the adventurers 
could be related to (or an old friend of) 
Clavados or Geoffrey D'Arcy. One could 
even stand to inherit (through a distant 
family relationship) if the manor of 
Myrk fell vacant. 

Hints for Play 

- Creating Atmosphere: Try to convey to 
your players the oppressive atmosphere 
of this region using landscape, weather, 
human inhabitants and monsters. Option 
al encounters can help, but don't overdo 
them (see p5). 

- Ageing: The magical ageing of the PCs 
by Nuala (see PSVII-VIII) is an import 



ant part of the adventure. It can provide 
much interest and enjoyment for the 
players but they may need help from you 
to cope with the changes to their 
characters' abilities and personalities. 
Using NPCs: Although there is plenty of 
action in this module, the roles of NPCs 
are very important. Read the text and the 
NPC descriptions (PSIII-VI) carefully 
before starting, to get a clear idea of how 
to use them to best advantage. 


Pull-out Sheets 

In the middle of this booklet are eight 
pages which should be removed before play 
begins, and kept to hand during the 
adventure. References to these Pull-out 
Sheets occur as PSn, where n is the number 
of the sheet in Roman numerals. 


Abbreviations Used 

- AC = Armour Class; MV = Movement 
Rate; HD = Hit Dice; hp = Current Hit 
Points; #AT = Number of Attacks; D = 
Damage per Attack; SA/SD = Special 
Attacks/Defences; MR = Magic 
Resistance; Int = Intelligence; AL = 
Alignment; xp = Experience Point Value. 

- C = Cleric; Cav = Cavalier; F = Fighter; 
MU = Magic User; T = Thief. 

- S = Strength; I = Intelligence; W = 
Wisdom; D = Dexterity; C = Consti 
tution; Ch = Charisma; Com = 
Comeliness. 

-MM=AD&D(r)MonsterManual;MMII= 
AD&D Monster Manual II; FF = FIEND 
FOLIO(r) T ome; DMG = AD&D 
Dungeon Masters Guide; PHB = AD&D 
Players Handbook; UA = AD&D 
Unearthed Arcana. 

- f = a weapon of specialization (UA 18) or 
weapon of choice (Cavaliers - UAH). 
THACO = To hit armour class zero. This 
is the roll on ld20 needed by a creature to 
hit/C 0. In most cases, the roll needed to 
hit other armour classes = THACO 
minus AC. 


INTRODUCTION 3 



The adventurers journey through the Ffenargh 
towards Eylea, palace of the Lords Spiritual. 
Their purpose is to aid the Lord High Bailiff 
Clavados investigate the case of Miles D'Arcy, a 
young noble accused ofpatricide. But the affair 
is far from simple; the accused is, in fact, a 
duplicate created by the evil Nuala, and the 
murder merely part of a plot to lure the party out 
into the fens... 

The Fens 

Most of the Ffenargh is covered by marshes, 
with only a few, small islands of "dry" 
land. It is perpetually cold, damp and 
misty, with barely a gust of wind or 
glimpse of the sun. 

Apart from the villages and tracks, the 
islands are covered by tangled, gloomy 
woodland. The marshes are impassable, 
except along tracks which meander 
between patches of firmer ground. Only 
the major marsh tracks are shown on Map 
F, other minor, tracks exist, but these have 
dead-ends. 

Only the River Clhag is navigable by 
barge, but some streams (see Map F) can by 
negotiated with difficulty using a punt or 
small raft. 

Faced with the difficulties of travel, the PCs 
may be tempted to try flying. This will 
expose them to many airborne optional 
encounters (see p5), however, and presents 
other problems since flight is only practical 
above the treetops. The dense foliage and 
heavy mists completely obscure the marsh 
trails and other features on the ground. 
Even the islands cannot be readily dis 
tinguished. Flying characters may well 
move quickly, but finding their destination 
or a safe place to land is another matter! 


Movement Rates (miles per day) 

Afoot (light burden): Island track - 25; 
island woods or marsh track - 15. 

Afoot (average burden): Island track - 15; 
island woods or marsh track - 10. 

Afoot (heavy burden): Island track - 10; 
island woods or marsh track - 7. 


Mounted (lt/med horse): Island track - 25; 
island woods - 10; marsh track - 5. 
Mounted (hvy/draft horse): Island track - 
20; island woods - 10; marsh track - 5. 
Mounted (cart/wagon): Island track - 15; 
island woods and marsh track - impassable. 

Afloat (punt/raft): River Clhag-15; stream 

- ld6+4 (movement rate is variable due to 
frequent obstructions). 

Afloat (barge): River Clhag - 20; stream 

- impassable. 


People of the Ffenargh 

Their harsh way of life and the damp, the 
dull conditions of the fen make the fenfolk 
haggard, dowdy, sullen and morose. Those 
under Eylea's authority (all human) live in 
small, miserable villages only briefly 
described in the text. Beyond these "civil 
ized" areas, the inhabitants have often 
interbred with pseudo-undead (MMII102). 

Throughout the Ffenargh, the villagers 
will generally ignore PCs, becoming 
hostile only if threatened. They notice little 
outside their immediate areas, and answer 
questions in a curt, disinterested manner. 
Food and accommodation can be bought, 
but the villagers have little else to sell. 

Island of Holm 

The "island" of Holm is connected to the 
outside world by a causeway (FI) and (with 
the exception of Eylea) is the part of the 
Lords' Spiritual domain least affected by 
the gloom and malaise of the fen. 


FI. Causeway through the Mist 

The road from the high ground drops 
steadily down through the mist to the edge 
of the fen. Here an old, deserted, half- 
ruined wooden guard-post marks the 
northern end of the Holm Causeway. The 
causeway consists of two parallel rows of 
wooden piles driven into the murk, with an 
in-fill of rubble and timber. It snakes 
through the bogs and mires, linking 
occasional patches of solid ground: 


So this is the Ffenargh? Mile after mile 
of stinking bogs overlain by a con 
stant mist that clings to your skin and 
chills you to the bone. The little you 
can see looks far from welcoming, and 
who knows what lurks just out of 
sight... 


F2. Deserted Hamlet 

From the southern end of the causeway, the 
trail winds up onto the island of Holm. 
Beside the trail is a ruined hamlet of 
wooden houses. It is deserted, and has been 
for many years. 


Evl. A Stalking Evil 

This event begins on the first night that the 
party spends on Holm. A mournful wail 
drifts through the silent mist. Its source is 
some distance away, and it is hard to tell 
whether it is a cry for help or merely the 
mournful hooting of an owl. 

The sound comes from Zelor, (a grim, see 
NPCs - PSV) who, in the form of a black 
owl, is trying to attract the adventurers' 
attention in order to warn them of a 
crimson death which roams the island. 
Zelor cannot speak clearly, but sounds 
resembling "come, come", or "look, see" 
can be heard among its cries. 

The grim will call, intermittently, until 
just before dawn. If the adventurers follow 
its call, they will come to the crimson 
death's unoccupied lair: 


The sound leads you to a small 
clearing in a thicket where the mist is 
tainted with the sickly-sweet smell of 
decay. A large, black owl, perched in 
a dead tree on the far side of the 
clearing, regards you for a moment 
with large, thoughtful eyes before 
flying off into the darkness with a 
final cry that sounds like "beware". 
At the foot of the tree, a dark opening 
leads into a thick mass of briars. 


4 COURT AT EYLEA (Areas Fl-2/Evl) 














Ffenargh Optional Encounters 


Optional encounters may be used as you 
see fit to enliven play, to add atmosphere, 
encourage the players to make haste or to 
discourage them from flying. You can 
either choose particular encounters or 
select them randomly. 

If the encounters are to be used at 
random, you should make a check once 
each day and once each night (once each 
hour for flying characters). Roll ld20 


and consult the appropriate column on 
Table 1. If an encounter is indicated, the 
ranges given are used to generate the 
numbers of creatures involved. 

Alternatively, encounters may be selected 
for use in any order and at any location 
that seems suitable. Be careful not to 
overuse them, however, since this may 
leave the player characters too weak to 
cope with the rest of the adventure. 


TABLE 1 - OPTIONAL ENCOUNTERS 


Daytime 

Night 

Flying 

Encounter 

1-7 

1-5 

1-5 

No Encounter 

8 

6 


ld3+3 carrion crawlers 

9 

7 


1 choke creeper 


8-9 

6-9 

ld4+2 doombats 

10 

10-11 


ld3 giant frogs 
ld4+3 ghasts 

11-12 

12 

10-13 

ld3 giant bloodworms 
ld2 giant dragonflies 

13-14 

13 


ld4+3 giant land lampreys 

15-16 

14 


ld2 giant marsh snakes 


15 

14-17 

ld3 gloomwings 

17 

16 


ld3 megalocentipedes 


17-18 

18-20 

ld6+6 shadows 

18 

19 


ld2 shambling mounds 

19-26 

20 


1 dl2+10 vapor rats 


Optional Encounter Statistics 

Carrion crawler: AC 5/7; MV 12"; HD 3+1; 
hp 17; #AT 8; D/S A Paralysis; Int Non; 
AL N; Size L; xp 648; THACO 16; MM 13. 

Choke creeper: AC 6/5; MV Vi ; HD 25; 
hp 50; #AT 8+; D ld4; SA Strangulation; 
SD Special; Int Non; AL N; Size L; xp 800; 
THACO 13; MMII25 

Doombat: AC 4; MV 18"; HD 6+3; hp 31; 
#AT 2; D ld4M6; SA Shriek; Int Animal; 
AL NE; Size M; xp 617; THACO 13; FF27. 

Giantfrog: AC 7; MV 37/9"; HD 3; hp 18; 
#AT 1; D 2d4; SA Tongue; Int Non; AL N; 
Size M; xp 99; THACO 16; MM41. 

Ghast: AC 4; MV 15"; HD 4; hp 22; #AT 3; 
D Id4/ld4/ld8; SA Stench and paralysis; 
Int Very; AL CE; Size M; xp 278; THACO 15; 
MM43. 

Giant bloodworm: AC 4; MV 6"; HD 6; 

hp36; #AT 1; D ld8; SA Drain blood; Int Non; 
AL N; Size L; xp 441; THACO 13; FF15. 

Giant dragonfly: AC 3; MV 36"; HD 7; 
hp 33; #AT 1; D 3d4; SA +2 initiative; SD AC 
bonuses; Int Low; AL N; Size L; xp 789; 
THACO 13; MMII59. 


Giant land lamprey: AC 7; MV 12": HD 3; 
hp 15; #AT 1; D ld6; SA Drain blood; Int Non; 
AL N; Size M; xp 170; THACO 16; (cf. land 
lamprey) MMII80. 

Giant marsh snake: AC 5; MV 12", HD 8; 
hp 42; #AT 1; D ld6; SA Constriction (3d6), 
poison; Int Animal; AL N; Size L; xp 1504; 
THACO 12; (cf. gt. sea snake) MM88. 

Gloomwing: AC 1; MV 12"; HD 5+1; hp 29; 
#AT SD Pheromone; Int Animal; AL N; 
Size M; xp 699; THACO 15; MMII70. 

Megalocentipede: AC 5; MV 18"; HD 3; 
hp 12; #AT 1; D ld8 + poison; Int Animal; 
AL N; Size M; xp 161; THACO 16; MMII24. 

Shadow: AC 7; MV 12"; HD 3+3; hp 20; 
#AT 1; D ld4+l + strength drain; SD Magical 
weapons to hit; Int Low; AL CE; Size M; 
xp 335; THACO 16; MM86. 

Shambling mound: AC 0; MV 6"; HD 8; 

hp 42; #AT 2; D 2d8/2d8; SA Suffocation; 
SD Half damage from weapons; Int Low; AL 
N; Size L; xp 2220; THACO 12; MM87. 

Vapor rat: AC 6 (or special); MV 12" (1"); 
HD 2; hp8; #AT 1; D ld2; SA Stinking cloud; 
SD Gaseous form; Int Low; AL C(N); Size S; 
xp 68; THACO 16; MMII105. 



If the party attacks the grim, it will flee 
without retaliating. If they kill it, however, 
it will not be able to warn or help them in 
future (see A New Life?, pl3 and Events, 
p22). 

The dark opening is the entrance to the 
crimson death's lair: a rough chamber 
inside the thicket 10 feet across and 8 feet 
high. Inside are the remains of 12 humans. 
These are in varying states of decay, but 
show no signs of injury. The most recently 
killed can be seen to be strangely pale and 
wizzened. Also in the chamber, are a potion 
of super-heroism, an elixir of life, and four 
jewelled rings (value 2000gp each). 

Regardless of whether the adventurers go 
to the lair, the crimson death will find them 
and attack early the next day. The creature 
will attack in a frenzy if the adventurers are 
still at the lair or if they took any of the 
treasure. It only gains surprise on 1-3 on 
ld6 but fights to the death. Otherwise, it 
will lay in wait, having a 5 in 6 chance of 
surprise in the ambush, but it will flee to its 
lair if reduced to fewer than 20 hit points. 

1 crimson death: AC0(4);MV 12"(6");HD 13; 
hp 78; #AT 1; D 3dl0; SA/SD see below; 
MR 100%; Int Genius; AL NE; Size M; xp 9732; 
THACO 9; MMII32. 

Note: Normally requires +2 weapons to be hit 
and surprises on 1-5. After feeding (by 
draining victim's body fluids) it becomes 
crimson, slower (MV 6"), and easier to hit 
(AC 4, +1 weapons to be hit) for 6 turns. 

F3. Cartleagh 

Cartleagh is a typical Ffenargh hamlet of a 
dozen wooden houses sited near the Clhag 
river and surrounded by a wall of inter 
twined briars with a single gate. On the 
river, a barge (see The Fens, p4 and below) 
is tied up at a jetty. 

The inhabitants of the village (see Peoples 
of Ffenargh, p4) are 50 or so human 
peasants, about half of whom go out 
hunting, reed-gathering and so on during 
the day. They are poor, thin, pale and 
morose in general, and many suffer from 
"the vapours" (a husky, rasping cough). 


COURT AT EYLEA (Optional Encounters/Area F3) 5 















In charge of the village is Juthe, a bailiff 
appointed by the Lord High Bailiff of 
Eylea. She lives in the largest of the houses. 
She is coldly civil to the adventurers, 
offering the minimum of hospitality and 
only grudgingly arranging for the barge to 
take them to Eylea (see below). 

Bailiff Juthe: 

Female, middle-aged, disgruntled, unsociable. 
AC 8 (leather); MV 12"; F3; hp 15; #AT 1 
longsword; D ld8; Int Ave; AL LN; Size M; 
THACO 18. 


Ev2. Boat to Eylea 

The vessel which takes official visitors 
from Cartleagh to Eylea is a flat-bottomed 
barge, capable of carrying up to 12 
passengers and their horses. It is poled 
along the shallow river by 12 Cartleagh 
peasants pressed into service by Juthe (who 
stays behind). The boat journey to Eylea 
occupies most of a day, and takes the party 
through a seemingly trackless wilderness 
of mist-shrouded fen. If the party arrives at 
Cartleagh after mid-morning, they must 
wait until the next day before setting out. 
Although sullen and uncommunicative, 
the peasants pole vigorously so as to avoid 
being on the river at night. 

F4-6. Other Hamlets 

The other three hamlets on Holm are 
smaller than Cartleagh but are similar in 
most other respects. The inhabitants are 
similarly unhealthy and morose: 

F4. Near Delve: Buildings - 13 houses 
surrounded by a briar fence and ditch 
Bailiff - Edrie (female, F3, AL LN) 
Inhabitants - 40 peasants (human). 

F5. Far Delve: Buildings - 9 houses 
surrounded by a log palisade 
Bailiff - Peffer (male, F2, AL N) 
Inhabitants - 40 peasants (human). 

F6. Smidginn: Buildings - 7 houses 
surrounded by a briar fence 
Bailiff - Durword (male, F2, AL LN) 
Inhabitants - 30 peasants (human). 

6 COURT AT EYLEA (Event Ev2/Eylea) 


EYLEA 

The palace of the Lords Spiritual at Eylea 
and its inhabitants are described on Pull 
out Sheets /-//, and Map E. 

By the general standards of the Ffenargh, 
Eylea is a lively, vibrant place, but to any 
outsider, its grey, damp walls, and lethargic 
air will be depressing indeed. 

Much of the atmosphere of Eylea is 
imparted by its inhabitants, most of whom 
are servants of one kind or another who 
will be seen dawdling about their tasks. 
The Praefecture (minor clerics) of the 
palace and the Officers of Clavados' militia 
will also be seen around the place. 

While at Eylea, the adventurers will be 
accorded the honorary status of "Lords" or 
"Ladies". However, the authority of Clav 
ados and the Lords Spiritual is absolute 
here, and the party would do well to 
remember this. 


Arrival 


Ahead, the mire gives way to a low, 
wooded island topped by a cluster of 
grey-green roofs and towers. The 
mist is thinner here, and the sight of 
dry land lifts your spirits a little. 

One of the peasants raises his head a 
fraction and clears his throat; "Eye- 
leer, shurr" he mutters, then con 
tinues poling. 


As the barge pulls in at the wharf (E8), the 
Lord High Bailiff Clavados (see NPCs - 
PSIII), in full armour and mounted on his 
warhorse, is waiting for the party. With 
Clavados is his Esquire Aubrey who blows 
a fanfare on his trumpet to welcome the 
adventurers. Clavados greets them heartily, 
conducts them to their rooms in the 
hospitium (E12) and sees that their horses 
are properly accommodated in the high 
stables (E9). Throughout, Clavados has no 
hesitation in giving curt orders to the 
peasants to carry the party's baggage and so 
on. He refuses to "discuss the case in front 
of riff-raff", however, and invites the 
adventurers to a private meal with him in 
his apartments (E2). The crew of the barge 
are left to find their own food and 
accommodation, and return to Cartleagh 
next day. 


Dinner with Clavados 

Over dinner in his apartments, with the 
Captain of the Guard, Rupert De Ganson, 
Clavados explains "the particulars of the 
case": 


• a few weeks ago, the bailiff of Tollburn 
(FI4) sent word that two reed-gatherers 
had found the strangled body of a 
richly-garbed old man floating in the 
Sphagbog. 

• Clavados, accompanied by Kilanas (a 
Praefect) and a squad of men-at-arms, 
went to investigate and discovered that 
the corpse was none other than Geoffrey 
D'Arcy, a fellow cavalier and Master of 
Myrkfast (see Map M). 

Geoffrey was soon laid to rest according 
to custom, but not before Kilanas (at 
Clavados' insistence) used a speak with 
dead spell on his corpse and learned the 
following (here, Clavados reads from a 
parchment): 


Question: "Geoffrey, who or what killed 
you?" 

Answer: "My own... son... Miles DArcy, 
it was... he." 

Question : "'Was he alone?" 

Answer: "yes... but I was there." 

Question: "'Why did he do this thing?" 

Answer: "I came upon him... with the 
other... they had the relic which was... 
stolen... from Eylea... one of the eight..." 


• Wrathful, Clavados hurried towards 
Myrkfast, but Miles met him on the road 
and surrendered without a struggle, so 
that Clavados was forced to bring him 
back to Eylea unharmed. 

• Back at Eylea, things became even 
worse. Two Praefects were sent into the 
treasury to check for the theft of one of 
the relics but, mysteriously, were never 
seen again. A squad of guards sent to 
Myrkfast to investigate the scene of the 
crime, have still not returned. With 
Miles' trial at the next sitting of the 
Clerical Court only days away, Clavados 
sent for the adventurers. The theft of one 
of Eylea's most holy relics, coupled with 
such a heinous murder, obviously 
requires more than mere men-at-arms. 

• The trial begins tomorrow, and Clav 
ados wants the adventurers to go into 
the treasury tonight to discover the fate 
of the missing Praefects and to determine 
whether any relics are gone. The ancient 
rules laid down at the founding of the 
Clerical Courts forbid the use of evidence 
obtained solely by magical means (such 
as the words spoken by the dead 
Geoffrey) and, unless Clavados can at 
least show that a relic has been stolen 
from the treasury, the Court may have to 
throw out the case for lack of evidence. 


"After-Dinner Exercise" 

Clavados takes the party through the 
darkened palace to the door of the treasury 
(E18), where he explains the layout of the 
chambers and corridors inside and tells the 










Anguished Guardian 


Trial For Murder 


adventurers that the eight relics of Eylea are 
kept in the central, square chamber. He 
does not know about the guardian daemon 
(see below). Opening the iron door with his 
personal key, he ushers the adventurers in, 
promising to wait for their return: 


With the exception of the central chamber, 
all the rooms correspond to the above 
description. 


When the adventurers emerge, Clavados 
locks the door and leads them quickly back 
to his quarters where he asks what they 
have discovered. Their news will both 
disturb and satisfy him (since it confirms 
his suspicions), and from their description 
he can determine that the missing relic is 
the Robe of Ulm. Before bidding the 
adventurers good-night, Clavados instructs 
them to be in the Hall of Ruling and 
Justice (E20) when the trial begins 
tomorrow after breakfast. Breakfast is at 
dawn in the Grandiose Hall (Ell). Until 
the trial, they are to speak with no-one. 


attacked by the appropriate daemon(s) (see 
above for statistics). The party will not be 
able to use any of the relics. 


Sworn to Secrecy 


"Enough, my good Lords," Miles 
cries, "this prattling may suit well 
the trial of a chicken-thieving churl, 
but it rings hollow when the honour 
of a Lord is a stake. I demand the 
judgement of independent peers. 
Grant me a Jury of Inquisition!" 


A murky silence engulfs you, as you 
enter the ancient treasury. When you 
are all inside, Clavados swings the 
door closed and you are alone with 
the accumulated paraphernalia of 
ages: tattered banners, fading paint 
ings and dusty statues. 


When the Robe of Ulm was stolen by Miles' 
thief/acrobat, Raoult, a guardian daemon 
in the form of a black hound was unleashed 
from a hidden compartment. Raoult eluded 
it, but later it killed the two Praefects sent 
to investigate the theft. The daemon now 
lurks in an outer chamber (E18a). If the 
adventurers come this way, it will attempt 
to surprise them here; attacking first with 
its breath. If they explore elsewhere, it will 
stalk them silently before attacking. 

Guardian daemon (black hound): AC 1; 

MV 9"; HD 8; hp 60; #AT 3; D Idl2/ld8/ld8; 
SA/SD/MR see below; Int Very; AL N; Size S; 
xp 1875; THACO 12; FF49. 

Note: Immune to edged weapons and to charm, 
sleep, hold, polymorph and fear spells; moves 
silently; need +2 weapons to hit; breathes fire 
(D 5d6, cone 30x10). 

In the central chamber (E18b), the party 
can find clear evidence for the theft of 
which Geoffrey spoke. In the centre of the 
room is a squat, eight-sided stone column 
with a glass-fronted alcove in each face. 
One of the glass panels has been smashed, 
and the alcove behind it is empty. Beneath 
the alcove, the door of the guardian 
daemon's compartment hangs open. 

On the floor are the charred bodies of the 
two Praefects, and nearby are a 100-foot 
length of rope (one end of it charred) and a 
slim dagger. These were accidentally 
dropped by Raoult during his hurried 
escape through a high, narrow window. 

The other seven cases each contain a relic 
(gilded skull, ivory prayer-wheel, alabaster 
vase, stuffed owl, pewter chalice, wooden 
bowl, mummified hand), and each has a 
secret compartment beneath holding its 
guardian daemon. If the adventurers inter 
fere with any of the cases, or find and open 
any of the compartments, they will be 


The trial of Miles D'Arcy begins early next 
day in the Hall of Ruling and Justice - a 
dingy, octagonal chamber with raised 
thrones for the Lords Spiritual against the 
southern wall, a chair in the centre for the 
defendant, and benches around the other 
walls for the audience of Praefects and 
militia officers. 

When the adventurers arrive, the public 
benches are rapidly being filled. Clavados 
is absent, but one of his officers politely 
conducts the party to their seats. 

After a while, an usher announces: "All rise 
to honour their Most Reverend Worship 
fulnesses, the Lords Spiritual of Eylea, 
High Priests of The Faith, Theocrats of the 
Ffenargh". The three high priests then 
enter, accompanied by a disorderly pro 
cession of Praefects, and take their places. 
Next, Clavados and a group of officers 
bring in Miles (or, rather, the identical 
duplicate of Miles - see PSV) and seat him 
before the judges. 

For an hour or so, the court goes through 
the tedious formalities of swearing-in the 
officials, reading the charges and Miles' 
plea of "not guilty". Throughout, Clav 
ados acts as prosecuting advocate, while 
Miles conducts his own defence. 

Eventually, the time comes for Clavados to 
present the prosecution case. First, he calls 
on Kilanas to rise and recount the words of 
the deceased Geoffrey but, predictably, the 
Lords Spiritual refuse to accept "arcarnum 
magicana" (evidence obtained by magic). 

Next, Clavados calls on the adventurers to 
describe what they found the previous 
night in the treasury. Before the player 
characters have got very far with their story, 
however, Miles plays his trump card: 


For several minutes, the court is in uproar 
as the startled audience rises to its feet and 
Clavados tries, futilely, to protest. Then 
order is restored and Siranush (the Lord 
High Spiritual) speaks: 


"Miles D'Arcy, well do you know 
that trial by Jury of Inquisition 
cannot be refused you. Since time 
immemorial the secular Lords of the 
Ffenargh have been free to choose 
their judges from those who are not 
lords of the church. Yet I question 
the wisdom of your plea. Clavados is 
the only other secular lord, and as 
your accuser, he is ineligible. What 
other lords are there? 

"These my lord" Miles exclaims 
with a note of triumph, a smile on 
his face and his finger pointed in 
your direction. A murmur runs 
around the court, as the Lords 
spiritual hold a hushed discussion 
amongst themselves. Then Siranush 
raises her hand for silence and, 
turning to you, passes judgement: 

"My Lords and Ladies. Although 
you are strangers to the Ffenargh, yet 
must the law be served. By the power 
of this court we do hereby command 
that you serve as Jury of Inquisition 
in this case. The Lord High bailiff 
will explain your duties. Court 
dismissed!" 


The adventurers should be left in no doubt 
that they have little choice but to accept the 
verdict. If they are reluctant, the full power 
of the Lords - both military and magical 
(eg Quest spells) will be brought to bear to 
change their minds. 


COURT AT EYLEA (Trial for Murder) 7 












Pressed by the Court into becoming a Jury of 
Inquisition, the adventurers have little choice 
but to take full responsibility for determining 
Miles D'Arcy's guilt - or innocence. But things 
are seldom as simple as they seem. The fens 
conceal a deadly trap, and have about them the 
icy chill of the grave. 

Preparing the Jury 

Immediately after the trial of Miles is 
adjourned, Clavados takes the adventurers 
back to his quarters to explain the duties 
and rewards of a Jury of Inquisition: 

- The Jury has 30 days in which to 
discover the facts of the case and to 
present these to the court along with a 
verdict. If the evidence collected is 
acceptable by the rules of the Court, then 
the Jury's verdict, either way, will be 
final and binding. 

- The Jury members are officials of the 
Court, and have the right to question 
anyone in the Ffenargh. 

- The Jury may only use force against 
citizens of the Ffenargh in self-defence. 

- The Jury cannot communicate with, 

8 CHILL OFF THE FEN (Preparing the Jury) 


harm or otherwise affect the defendant in 
any way - physically or magically. 

- Arcanum Magicana (evidence obtained 
solely by the use of magic; e.g. by use of 
charm person, speak with dead or know 
alignment spells, or with a crystal ball) is 
not acceptable to the court. 

- If the Jury fails to present itself to the 
Court within the allotted time, the 
defendant is deemed not guilty. 

- Serving members of the Jury receive a 
stipend of 50gp per day from the court. 
In addition, they are entitled to retain 
any "rightful spoils of honourable com 
bat" (Clavados hints that such spoils can 
be considerable!). 

Unless asked, Clavados' sense of honour 
prevents him mentioning that if the 
defendant is found not guilty, or if 
sufficient evidence to prove his guilt is not 
found within the time limit, his accuser 
(Clavados in this case) is put to death in his 
stead. 


Facilities 

For travelling along the numerous streams 


in the Ffenargh, the PCs are offered the use 
of a punt (a flat-bottomed boat). 


Clavados' Suggestions 

If the adventurers ask for Clavados' advice 
on where to seek evidence, he will suggest 
the two most obvious places: 

- Sphagbog and the village of Tollburn; 
where the body of Geoffrey D'Arcy was 
found. 

- Myrkfast Hall; home of Miles and 
Geoffrey D'Arcy. 

Presenting the Verdict 

If the adventurers present the court with a 
verdict based only on evidence from the 
village of Tollburn and/or Myrkfast (see 
page 9), it will be rejected by the Lords 
Spiritual. 

Myrkfast Hall, however, can provide a lead 
to the island of Lorge in the Corpsemire. It 
is there that the only evidence which would 
satisfy the court can be found. 






























Lea Island & the Kaldefen 

The villages nearest to Eylea (on Lea Island 
and in the Kaldefen - see Map F) are 
relatively prosperous. The party will find 
no evidence here to help them in the 
investigation: 

F7. Upper Wallop: Buildings - 16 houses 
surrounded by a log palisade 
Bailiff- Brearley (male, F3, AL LN) 
Inhabitants - 62 peasants (human). 


Ev3. More Corpses on Sphagbog 

The party can easily locate the reed-cutters 
from Tollburn on the Sphagbog, since a 
thin plume of smoke is rising from the 
dying embers of their camp-fire. 

At the camp, the two villagers lie slumped, 
apparently asleep, against a stack of cut 
reeds. In fact, they are dead, killed by the 
shambling mound which is hidden beneath 
the reeds and which attempts to ambush 
the newcomers. 


F8. Mydwycket: Buildings - 10 houses 
surrounded by a briar fence and ditch 
Bailiff - Fletcha (female, F3, AL LN) 
Inhabitants - 45 peasants (human). 

F9. Lower Wallop: Buildings - 10 houses 
surrounded by a briar fence and ditch 
Bailiff - Grigg (female, F3, AL LN) 
Inhabitants - 45 peasants (human). 

F10. Lagbe-For: Buildings - 9 houses 
surrounded by a briar fence 
Bailiff - Cloase (male, F2, AL N) 
Inhabitants - 38 peasants (human). 

Fll. Boaldim: Buildings - 11 houses 
surrounded by a briar fence and ditch 
Bailiff - Statham (male, F3, AL LN) 
Inhabitants - 44 peasants (human). 

Myrk Island and Sphagbog 


1 shambling mound: AC 0; MY 6"; HD 11; 

hp 70; #AT 2; D 2d8/2d8; Int Low; AL N; Size L; 
xp 7070; THACO 10; MM87. 

Note: Takes half damage from weapons; immune 
to fire; electrical attacks add 1 HD; cold does 
half damage (none if the creature makes a 
saving throw); vulnerable to spells affecting 
plants; if both tentacles hit, the victim 
suffocates in 2d4 rounds. 

Entangled in the roots at the base of the 
shambling mound are the body and gear of 
Raoult (the thief/acrobat who stole the 
Robe of Ulm for Miles from Eylea - see p2). 
Raoult's body has been reduced almost to a 
skeleton, but the adventurers can find a 
gold ring (value 50gp) in his pack, along 
with the now torn and tattered Robe. 


Myrkfast Hall 


The Hall 

Myrkfast Hall is a two-storey, ostentatious 
stone building adorned with statues, tracery 
windows, pilasters, ornamented chimneys 
and so on. Despite its ornamentation, it 
was built with defence in mind, with thick 
walls, stout doors and internal window 
shutters. Myrkfast suffered for many years 
from the kind of neglect which is common 
in the Ffenargh, but the upkeep of the 
building suffered even more during Miles' 
obsessive search for Nuala. 


Ml. Gatehouse 

There is accommodation for 18 men-at- 
arms on the first floor. In the men's 
personal lockers is a total of 247gp. The 
thick, wooden gates are kept firmly closed 
and barred. 


Myrk Island and the Sphagbog (see Map F) 
make up the manor ruled over by the 
D'Arcy family from their fortified home, 
Myrkfast Hall. 

It is here that the party can find information 
which will lead them to Lorge Hall in the 
Corpsemire. 


Villages 


Before Miles D'Arcy's duplicate and Nuala 
left the fortified hall at Myrkfast (he to be 
arrested by Clavados, and she to return to 
Lorge Hall), the two of them made careful 
preparations for the arrival of those invest 
igating Geoffrey's murder. Their intention 
was that only the most powerful of 
investigators would be able to gain entry to 
the hall, and that these would then be lured 
to Lorge Hall (see plO) where Nuala would 
be ready for them. 


M2-4. Courtyard, Stables & Walls 

The stables are empty 


M5. Main Hall 

This room is dirty and untidy. The shadow 
mastiffs are kept here. Amid the rubbish are 
8goldcandlesticks A value300gpeach),and 
20 silver plates (value 20gp each). 


F12. Stumps: Buildings - 12 houses 
surrounded by a briar stockade 
Bailiff - May (female, F3, AL N) 
Inhabitants - 51 peasants (human). 

F13. Popping: Buildings - 8 houses 
surrounded by a ditch 
Bailiff - Dexter (male, F2, AL N) 
Inhabitants - 30 peasants (human). 

F14. Tollburn: Buildings - 12 houses 
surrounded by a hurdle fence and ditch 
Bailiff- Denness (female, F2, AL N) 
Inhabitants - 57 peasants (human). 

Note: It was two reedcutters from this 
village who discovered the body of 
Geoffrey D'Arcy on the Sphagbog (see 
Dinner with Clavados, p6). These two 
men went out again to the Sphagbog 
some hours ago to collect reeds. The 
villagers can give the party directions as 
to how to find them. 


The defence of the hall has been left to 
Leovani, the half-elven steward, a squad of 
juju zombies and a pack of shadow mastiffs 
(see Defenders of Myrkfast - plO). Leovani 
will not co-operate in any way with the 
adventurers, but will only order his sub 
ordinates to attack if the party attacks or 
attempts to enter the hall. 


Approach 


Myrkfast Hall, grim, forbidding and 
grey as the mist which surrounds it, 
sits squat on a low rise amid an 
overgrown garden. There is neither 
sound nor movement, not even a 
wisp of smoke - nothing to indicate 
that the place has not been deserted 
for years. 


M6. Cellar 

The servants (8 men, 12 women and 5 
children - all F0; AL LN) are kept here 
most of the time amongst the depleted 
stores of food and drink. They are all 
unarmed and terrified. They know nothing 
except that "tha master got evil, e'en before 
that orfal woman come, then 'e lock'd up 
the lady an' turn'd tha soljers into zomby- 
men. It waz orfal" 


M7. Kitchen 

This room is squalid and cluttered with all 
sorts of filth. 


M8. Guarded Stairs 

Above the stairs leading to the rooms where 
Miles' wife Eloise is held prisoner are six 
niches in the outside wall of the hall, each 


CHILL OFF THE FEN (Areas F7-14, Ml-8/Event Ev3) 9 












containing a statue. Four of these are 
margoyles which are 80% indistinguishable 
from the others. The margoyles attack if 
the adventurers approach Eloise's rooms. 

4 margoyles: AC 2; MV 6712"; HD 6; hp 27 
each; #AT 4; D Id6/ld6/2d4/2d4; Int Low; 
AL CE; Size M; xp 512 each; THACO 13; 
MMII83. 

Note: Need +1 weapons to be hit. 


M9. The Prisoner 

Eloise D'Arcy, the wife of Miles, is held 
prisoner in the rooms which she and her 
husband formerly occupied. The shutters 
are closed and locked. The rooms' basic 
furniture (bed, tables, chairs etc.) remains, 
but all of Eloise's fine clothes and jewellery 
have been taken away. 


Eloise's relief at being rescued will be 
mixed with the shame of having been 
deserted by her husband. If asked, she will 
tell the adventurers what she knows (see 
below) but will not ask for further assist 
ance. In particular, she will wish to avoid 
the "disgrace" of going to Eylea, preferring 
instead to stay at Myrkfast with whichever 
servants remain. If Eloise is killed 
accidentally, the adventurers can gain the 
same information from her diary. 

Eloise D'Arcy (Miles' Wife) 
Appearance/clothing: Female, age 29 (but 
looks 40), thin, pale, wearing torn, dirty 
clothes (originally of good quality). 
Personality: Ashamed but defiant, 
embittered (against Miles). 

Abilities: AC 10; MV 12"; F0; hp 3; #AT 
Nil; Int Ave; AL LN. 


Eloise's Tale 

- Until about a year ago Miles D'Arcy 
seemed content helping his father 
Geoffrey run the Myrkfast estates and 
conducting research for a "History of the 
Ffenargh" in his spare time. About that 
time, however, he became secretive, 
pursuing his researches in the cellar 
behind locked doors and neglecting his 
other duties. It also became clear that he 
no longer cared for Eloise. 

- Several times, Miles and Leovani went 
on trips into the fens. Overhearing their 


conversation one night, Eloise discovered 
that their destination had been Lorge 
island in the Corpsemire. 

- About a month ago, a mysterious 
stranger stayed at the hall for a single 
night. When he returned a few days later, 
Miles greeted him in a state of great 
excitement, and ran down to the cellar 
bearing a package which the stranger 
had brought. 

- Despite his age, Geoffrey went down to 
investigate. There was a scream and, 
moments later, Miles rushed up from the 
cellar and dragged Eloise up to her 
rooms where he locked the door and 
shutters. 

- Thus began Eloise's imprisonment. On 
the first day, tearful servants came to take 
away her fine clothes and jewellery, but 
thereafter the only person she saw was 
Leovani who brought her food. 

- Each night, Eloise could hear what 
sounded like the voices of Miles, the 
stranger, Geoffrey, and a haughty woman 
Eloise could not recognise, talking in the 
hall below. Then, after a few days, the 
conversations ceased. 

- Eloise questioned Leovani, who told her 
that the "Master" had gone to Eylea. 
When asked about the woman, he would 
only say that "the new Mistress" had 
gone "back to her place in the mire". 

If asked, either Eloise or the servants can 
tell the party how to find the trail which 
leads to Lorge via Tollburn (F14) and 
Glubh (F15) - see Map F. 


M10. Leovani's Room 

This is the tidiest room in the building. A 
chest contains Leovani's spell book, 15 
gems (value 500gp each), 500gp, and 
2496ep. In the spell book are all the spells 
which he has memorised, plus: 

1 st level: detect magic, mount, read magic, 
unseen servant 

2nd level: knock, magic mouth, web 
3rd level: blink, detect illusion, tongues 
4th level: remove curse. 

Lorge Island & Corpsemire 

Corpsemire and the island of Lorge (see 
Map F) together made up the manor of 
Lorge where Rughlor once ruled and 
where he brought his new bride Nuala (see 
p2). Since the couple died, it has become a 
foul, evil place where civilised men rarely, 
if ever, go and which the Lords of Eylea 
rule in name only. 

Villages 

The peasants of this area have lost most of 
the few vestiges of civilisation which they 


Defenders of Myrkfast 


When the party arrives, thejuju zombies, 
in three squads of six, are guarding the 
gatehouse (Ml), walls (M4), and hall 
(M5). They attack anyone approaching 
Myrkfast (using bows or bare hands as 
appropriate) and warn Leovani (who 
will be in his room - M10) at once. At 
first, Leovani attacks the party with 
spells and directs his troops via a 
projected image. If close pressed, how 
ever, he casts a mirror image spell and 
takes his potion of superheroism before 
joining in hand-to-hand fighting. The 
shadow mastiffs can attack the ad 
venturers inside or outside the hall, as 
directed by Leovani. 

Leovani - Steward of Myrkfast 

Half-elf - F7/MU8 

Appearance/clothing: Slim and dark; wears 
black robes and silver steward's chain 
(value - 2000gp) over armour. 

Personality: Aloof, ruthless, efficient, loyal 
to Miles. 

Abilities: S18(25), 118, W8, D12, C14, Chll, 
Gm 14 

AC 1; MV 12"; hp 32; #AT 3/2; D ld8+4; 
AL LE; xp 2359; THACO 10. 


Spells: 

1st level: protection from evil, shocking 
grasp, magic missile (x2). 

2nd level: mirror image, stinking cloud, 
vocalise 

3rd level: slow, hold person, suggestion 
4th level: fear, confusion 
Equipment: longsword +1, chainmail +3, 
potion of super-heroism, scroll with pro 
jected image, fumble, flame arrow. 

18 juju zombies: AC: 6; MV 9"; HD 3+12; 
hp 21 each; #AT 1; D ld6 (short bow) or 3d4 
(hands); Int Low; AL N(E); Size M; xp 476 
each; THACO 13; MMII131. 

Note: Need +1 weapons to be hit; half 
damage from all but cleaving weapons 
(axe, broad-, bastard- or 2-handed sword 
etc.); unaffected by cold, electricity, or 
poison, or by magic missile, sleep, hold, 
charm or illusion spells; lire has half 
effect; turn as spectre; climb like T6. 

8 shadow mastiffs: AC ft MV 18" (9" in 
bright light); HD 4: hp 20each (16 in bright 
light); #AT 1; D 2d4; Int Semi; AL N(E); Size 
M; xp 265 each; THACO 15; MMII84. 

Note: Can hide in dim mist (25% chance); 
baying causes panic. 


10 CHILL OFF THE FEN (Areas M9-10/Defenders of Myrkfast/Lorge Island & Corpsemire) 













F16.Harge 

Buildings - 16 huts surrounded by a log 
fence and ditch 

Inhabitants • 8 pseudo-ghasts and 28 
human/pseudo-undead crossbreeds. 


F17. Skagken 

Buildings - 15 huts surrounded by a ditch 
Inhabitants - 14 pseudo-ghasts and 20 
human/pseudo-undead crossbreeds. 


The ruins of Lorge Hall are guarded by five 
drelb which were set here by Nuala. The 
hall is so gloomy inside that the drelb 
remain here both day and night. The ruins 
are also infested with vapour rats. Each 
time the adventurers enter a previously 
unexplored room there is a 30% chance that 
it will contain ld6+6 aggressive vapour 
rats. 


once had, and have even interbred with 
pseudo-undead (see pl3 for statistics). 
Their villages consist of crude, squalid 
huts. The peasants will be very unfriendly, 
but will only attack in self-defence, or if 
sure of an easy victory. 


F15.Glubh 

Buildings - 20 huts surrounded by a briar 
stockade 

Inhabitants • 12 pseudo-ghasts and 30 
human/pseudo-undead crossbreeds. 


Arrival at Lorge Hall 

Lorge Hall (see Map L) is on the highest 
point of the island, and is easy to find: 


The close-packed trees give way to an 
overgrown clearing which might 
once have been a garden. In the 
centre, standing atop a low knoll, are 
the ruins of a fortified manor-house. 
The roof has collapsed, the lichen- 
covered walls are crumbling, and the 
main doors hang open on twisted 
hinges. 


Behind the heavy wooden door is a 
warm, simply-furnished, homely 
room illuminated by lanterns. Three 
open doors lead off from this cham 
ber, and through them you can see 
other, similar rooms. At first there is 
no sound, but then you hear stealthy 
footsteps beyond the door opposite. 


Ev4. Knight on the Road 

This event occurs soon after the adventurers 
come onto the isle of Lorge: 


The track narrows, as grey-green, 
wizzened trees close in on either side. 
You hear hoof-beats ahead and, 
moments later, a mounted knight 
appears out of the mist, galloping 
towards you on a mail-clad, skeletal 
horse. 

"Stand aside vermin!" he commands 
in a voice which, although muffled 
by a visor, still manages to convey an 
impression of authority and malice. 


The knight is Rughlor, the long-dead 
cavalier Master of Lorge and husband of 
Nuala (see NPCs PSVI). 

Rughlor has risen as a revenant, determined 
to kill his murderess. He has no quarrel 
with the adventurers, but the path is 
narrow and they are blocking his way. If 
they do not stand aside, he will bear down 
on them, trampling any in his path. If he or 
his warhorse are attacked, Rughlor defends 
himself with his longsword. 

If the party does not destroy Rughlor, he 
will continue his search for Nuala (with or 
without his horse) whom he will track 
down at Eylea (see p23). Since neither he 
nor his mount can drown, his route soon 
takes him off the track and through the 
bogs and fens. These will slow his progress, 
but will prevent the adventurers from 
following him. 


5 drelb: AC 2; MV 6"; HD 5+3; hp 24 each; 
#AT 1; D 3d4; Int Ave; AL N(E); Size M; xp 944 
each; THACO 15; MMII60. 

Note: Immune to normal or silver weapons; 
touch causes shivering (no saving throw); 
cannot be turned. 

Vapour rats: AC 6; MV 127/6"; HD 2; hp 12 
each; #AT 1; D ld2; Int low; AL C(N); Size S; 
xp 76; THACO 16; MMII105. 

Note: Can assume gaseous form (MV 1", harmed 
only by attacks affecting vapours); if killed or 
wounded, each will release a stinking cloud 
(affects 1 individual within 8 feet). 

The Cellar 

A flight of stone steps leads down to the 
cellar. The first chamber is bare, except for 
two opened graves near the middle of the 
floor. These were the graves of Nuala and 
Rughlor. Nuala's grave was carefully dug 
out by Miles after he slid aside the rough 
covering slab which bears her name. 
Rughlor, on the other hand, burst out of 
his grave by his own efforts. His slab has 
been turned right over, and earth is 
scattered around. On the far wall of the 
chamber is a wooden door. The area 
beyond is described below. 


Farewell to Youth 

Normally, the door in the first large cellar 
room (see above) leads to a second under 
ground chamber. In order to entrap the 
party, however, Nuala has made the door 
the entrance to a suite of comfortable extra- 
dimensional rooms created by means of a 
Mordenkainen's magnificent mansion 
spell (UA62): 


Although the suite is "magical", it is real 
(not an illusion) and will not be shown up 
by a detect traps spell (or similar). 

The sound of footsteps comes from one of 
the "servants" produced by the magic of 
the spell. These servants will not show 
themselves to the party, but will use 
various sounds (madeby moving furniture, 
breaking crockery etc.) to draw the party 
into exploring the place. 

The layout of the suite is shown on Map L, 
but the details of its contents are up to you 
(try to arouse the players' curiosity). It is 
comfortable, but far less ostentatious than 
the normal product of the spell. 


Trapped! 

If the adventurers attempt to leave, or at 
any suitable time while they are inside the 
suite, Nuala springs her trap. Lirst, the 
entrance doorway vanishes, trapping the 
party inside. Then, one by one, the outer 
rooms close in on themselves and the doors, 
into them vanish. Remorselessly, the 
adventurers are forced into the central 
chamber: 


Eventually, the crazy shrinking of 
the rooms ceases, but by now you are 
confined to a single chamber, sur 
rounded on all sides by blank walls. 

Then, suddenly, the walls of the 
room vanish and are replaced by a 
cage of shimmering bars set in the 
middle of a larger, chamber with 
mirrored walls which reflect back 
myriad images of yourselves. 


CHILL OFF THE FEN (Event Ev4/Lorge Hall) 11 









£•> 










As the wasting sensation continues, 
the creatures outside the cage become 
progressively more distinct until, 
after a few moments, they have 
become precise copies of yourselves 
as you were before you were caught 
in this cage. Just then, you notice 
that the duplicates have been joined 
by a young, beautiful, robed woman 
who smiles at you menacingly. 


The closing of the MordenkaineiTs magni 
ficent mansion has deposited the party in a 
cage in the centre of the real, 60-foot-square 
chamber which lies beyond the door in the 
first cellar room. 

The cell is a special prison created by 
Nuala before her death at the height of her 
power. It is a forcecage (UA61), 20 feet 
square, with shimmering bars of force at 
6-inch intervals. The area enclosed by the 
cage is affected by a powerful magic which 
slows the actions of those inside (cf. slow 
spell) by 10 times, and prevents any psionic 
activity. The walkway around the outside 
of the cell is unaffected by this magic. 


Duplicates 


Amazingly, some of your reflected 
images seem to be moving of their 
own accord! As they approach the 
cage, however, you realise that these 
are not reflections but independent 
creatures - exact duplicates of your 
selves! 

Your bodies feel like lead - every 
tiny movement seems to take an age. 
Helplessly then, you can only watch 
as the creatures line up around the 
cage and reach out towards their 
counterparts. As they do so, you 
experience an awful, wasting sen 
sation as the strength and vitality 
drain from your bodies. Your dup 
licates are becoming firmer and more 
distinct, while the reflections in the 
mirrors show that you are shrivelling 
into aged crones! 


The "creatures" are Nuala's life-bane 
duplicates which have now established the 
parasitic link with their victims (see PSVII 
and p24). The slowing effect of the cage 
prevents the characters from taking any 
action against the duplicates before the 
process is complete. This applies even to 
characters who are hasted (or similar), 
since the accelerated rate at which these are 
using their life energy simply allows the 
duplicates to drain it faster! 

12 CHILL OFF THE FEN (A New Life?) 


The woman is Nuala (see PSVI), who has 
come to gloat over her helpless captives: 

"Ah, there, there! The poor old dears 
have had a tiring day. Perhaps you 
should rest and let these young ones do 
the work. My, my! How they take after 
you, and so obedient. I wish we could 
stay and talk with you, but there is 
much to be done, and we must go. But 
do not worry, very soon you will be 
able to sleep forever and ever. Farewell, 
dear old things." 

Nuala will be finished speaking and out of 
the chamber with the duplicates before the 
adventurers can react. After leaving the 
hall, she and the duplicates head at once for 
Eylea (see pl5) leaving other servants to 
cover her trail (see pi3). She is confident 
that the cage will hold the adventurers at 
least long enough for her to carry out the 
next stages of her plan. 

All of the ageing effects of Nuala's life-bane 
magic have, by now, taken full effect (see 
PSVII), and you should inform the players 
of the changes which have occurred. This 
could well cause the players considerable 
consternation, so enjoy yourself! 


Miles D'Arcy 


As the woman and duplicates leave, a 
pair of squat humanoids with flaccid, 
slimy skin shuffle into the room. As 
one of them waves a shimmering rod 
in front of the cage, two of the bars 
vanish, the other humanoid quickly 
dumps the limp form of an old man 
in a ragged tunic through the breach. 
Before you can move towards the 
gap, the bars reappear. 


The humanoids are slime golems, created 
by Nuala to act as jailors (see below). The 
new prisoner is the real Miles D'Arcy, aged 
by Nuala (see PSVI). He is paralysed, but 
will recover in 10 rounds. 

The aged Miles is insane. Apart from 
pleading to be taken with them, he takes 
little notice of the adventurers and mutters 
to himself at intervals: 


- "Now I'm old there's another of me, if 
he were dead then I'd be free" 

- "It's the whole Ffenargh she wants 
...we'll all die for a puddle of mud!" 

- "Escape! ...yes, I must. There's only 
death here for me... so little time... I 
must kill the other one..." 

- "No, father, I wouldn't kill you... not 
your little Miles... it was the other 
one..." 

- "I only did it for you, Nuala..." 


Jailors 

Since they are outside the cage, the golems 
can automatically avoid any weapon 
attacks from the slowed characters inside. 
They will not recognise or dodge spells, 
but there are few which can affect them. 
The golems attack anyone who leaves the 
cage, but have orders not to harm the party. 
They attempt only to touch and paralyse 
characters before returning them to the 
cage (using the "key"). Nuala has been 
careless in her instructions, however, and if 
either golem is injured by anyone inside 
the cage, both of them will squeeze through 
the bars and attack the party in earnest. 

2 slime golems: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 10; hp 45 
each; #AT 2; D (2d4/2d4) + paralysis; Int Low; 
AL N; Size M; xp 2580 each; THACO 10; New 
Monster, p24. 

Note: Touch paralyses (save vs. paralysis to 
negate); need magical weapons to be hit; 
immune to cold, heat, and fire, and to sleep, 
charm and hold spells; can squeeze through 
narrow gaps. 

A New Life? 

With Nuala gone, the newly-aged, doddery 
adventurers face the first real lest of their 
diminished abilities - escape! In itself, 
freeing themselves from the cage may be a 
tough challenge for the "old dears", but 
after that come the problems of leaving the 
island and the perils of the journey out of 
theCorpsemire. 

Overcoming the Cage 

Although they may be slack of sinew and 
weak of eye, Nuala's confidence that the 
cage and the golems can hold the adven 
turers is probably ill-founded. There are 
many ways in which the party can escape, 
of which the following are only a few 
examples: 

- Reduction. If characters are made small 
(e.g. with a potion of diminution), they 
can pass through the bars. 

- Removing the magic. For the purposes 
of a dispel magic spell, the forcecage and 
slowing magic are treated (separately) as 
20th level magic. 















Although not as unpleasant as the rest of 
the Ffenargh, Eylea is a drab and depressing 
place. Mist lies thick on the ground, 
forming grotesque swirls and eddies when 
ever it is disturbed by the wind or peoples' 
passage. Eylea's crumbling stonework is 
covered in ancient lichens, and its once 
fine, stained-glass windows are now 
cracked and dirty. Gloom and despondency 
permeate the island, most of it emanating 
from its inhabitants. Only Eylea's privi 
leged few seem unaware of its decline, but 
to an outsider, it is obvious that Eylea has 
seen better days. 

Occupants of Eylea 

Eylea's ruling elite comprises the three 
Lords Spiritual (or Clerical Court) - 
Siranush, Waldegrave and Tyrwitt - and 
the Lord-Bailiff Clavados, who takes care 
of all temporal matters. 

While at Eylea, the adventurers will be 
accorded the honorary status of "Lords" or 
"Ladies". However, the authority of Clav 
ados and the Lords Spiritual is absolute 
here, and the party would do well to 
remember this. 

Responsible to the Lords, and one step up 
from the lowly commoners, are the Prae- 
fecture (minor clerics) of the temple and the 
Officers of the Guard. Although better fed 
and clothed than the commoners, these two 
groups display much of the cynical aura of 
the place, and treat each other with disdain. 

The remaining inhabitants are commoners. 
Most are servants of one kind or another 
who will be seen dawdling about their 
tasks. They range from pale-skinned stable- 
hands and scullions wearing threadbare, 
ill-fitting livery, through slovenly cooks, 
maids and stewards, to gaunt, arrogant, 
grey-robed clerks who keep the records for 
the priests. The others are surly men-at- 
arms in unpolished armour who generally 
slouch untidily about the place. 

Eylea 

The majority of buildings in Eylea are 
dirty and covered by thick layers of dust. 
Those areas frequently passed through are 
criss-crossed by many trails. 


El. Gatehouses 

Eight guards, a sergeant and a scribe are on 
duty at each of the gatehouses at all times. 
The scribe enters the names of all those 
entering and leaving Eylea in a ledger. In 


bad weather he is likely to keep visitors 
waiting longer than necessary, in the hopes 
of receiving a small bribe of lgp. If bribed, 
the scribe will hurry characters through, 
otherwise entering their names will take a 
long time. 

Guard posts* 

Two guards watch these portals at all 
times. At night they are often asleep on 
duty. 


E2. Chambers of the Lord High Bailiff 

Clavados and his retainers live here. 
Clavados is fastidious in his running of the 
house and supervises its cleaning per 
sonally. Silverware is polished daily and all 
rooms carefully swept. He has a reputation 
as a hard master, but no-one dares deny 
him; the last person to do so is still 
languishing in the dungeons. 


E3. Barracks 

Eylea's guards live here in little better 
conditions than the poorest peasant. Dirt is 
ingrained everywhere - in the floor, the 
woodwork, and the guards! 


E4. The Dungeons 

Beneath the barracks are the dungeons 
where those offending the laws of the Lords 
Spiritual are interred. 


E5. Workrooms and Lodgings 

The buildings along the east wing house 
Eylea's workrooms. Like the rest of Eylea's 
commoners, the workers here are slovenly 
and indolent. All work is left until the last 
possible minute and as a result, it is of 
inferior quality. The various artisans are 
listed below. 


a. Potter 

b. Carpenter 

c. Blacksmith 

d. Cooper 

e. Wainwright 

f. Armourer 


g. Tanner and 
leatherworker 

h. Stonemason - empty 

i. Glazier - empty 

j. Weaver 

k. Low Stables* 


*The common work-horses and mules are 
kept in this rickety building which is also 
home to five stablehands. 


With the exception of the stonemason's 
and the glazier's, each of the workshops 
contains a craftsman and 2-5 apprentices. 
Both the stonemason's and the glazier's 
were closed some 60 years ago, following 
the deaths of their inhabitants in an 
virulent 'vapours' epidemic. These build 
ings are now inhabited only by rats. 


E6. Storerooms 

Food from the outlying villages is stored 
here along with supplies of oil, torches, 
peat for fires, and so on. 

E7. Mill 

A tired old mule spends its days walking 
round in a circle and turning the mill 
stones for the miller. 


E8. Wharf and Boathouse 

Two boats are kept in the boathouse. The 
wharf is old and riddled with woodworm. 
Two boatmen tie up any vessels arriving 
here. 


E9. High Stables 

The horses of Clavados' officers and 
Eylea's cavalry are kept here along with 
carriages and horses belonging to the 
Lords Spiritual. 

E10. Kitchens 

The walls and floor are covered in thick 
layers of grease. Three large ovens are used 
to prepare food for Eylea. Animals are both 
slaughtered here and then prepared for 
cooking on the spot. The appearance and 
taste of the food is always acceptable and 
sometimes is even good, but anyone seeing 
the kitchens is unlikely to enjoy a meal 
cooked here. 


Ell. The Grandiose Hall 

This once majestic hall has seating and 
eating facilities for all of Eylea's residents. 
A raised dais (the "High Table") seats the 
Lords Spiritual, Clavados, and his re 
tainers. Next to it is seating for members of 
the Praefecture, and the remainder of the 
hall is taken up with rough tables for the 
commoners. 

The Hall is little used these days, being 
reserved for festive occasions which are 
now few and far between. A thick layer of 
dust covers everything. 


E12. Hospitium 

These chambers are used to house any 
important (and now, infrequent) guests at 
Eylea. Once quite grand, the rooms are 
now faded and old. 

When the adventurers arrive, rooms will be 
made ready for them - dust is swept under 
the beds and carpets, and the beds are made 
with mildewed bedding. A peat fire will 
also be lit in each room. 


(c) February 1986, TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


PULL-OUT SHEET (Eylea) I 




Eylea's 
Hierarchy 


j 


Siranush 

cia 


The Lords 
Spiritual 


Wal deg rave 

3 Cf2 


Tyrwhitt 

' Cl 1 


I 

Clavados 

Lord High Bailiff 

j Cav12 


Gardict 

Arch Pontefact 

i eg 


Aubrey 

Esquire 

Catfj 


1 

1 - 

"1 

pert 

Kilanas 

Brinta 

1 the Guard 

Praescriptor 

High Flamen 

CawS 

1 C? 

I 1 

i * 


Med. Cavalry 

Sergeant (F3) 

1? Topers (F2) 


Village 

Bailiffs 

F2-F3 


Guard Lieutenants 

D y 7 rk (r) 

II _ Command* 

HO 2 Squads of 

. ... MbIMin 

Magill mnd 2 Squads 
p ft of Crossbowman 

Erard 

F5 

Squad of 
Halberdiers 

Sergeant (F3) 

S Men-al-a/ms (Ft) 


Squad of Light 
Crossbowmen 

Sergeant (F3) 

8 Men-ah arms (Ft) 





Co rp halt 

Bursar 

I C6 

r" 


Barnez 

Librarian 

C6 


Abillard 

Beadle 

FI 


Senior Scribes 

IxCS. 4xC3 


Scribes 

9x02,21x01 


Flamens 

2xC6. 4*CS 


Temple Clerics! 

6"C4, 1&xC3 
Ana/ And Incdnso 
Keepefi, Musicians [ 


1 - 

Chamberlain 

i 

- 1 - 

Victualler 

1 

- 1- 

Warden 

i 

- 1 

Keeper 

125 Stewards, Servants, 1 

Footmen, Greeners, etc 1 

92 Cooks. Cellarers. 
SculJions, etc 


37 Grooms, Gardeners. 1 

Boatmen, etc 

37 Craftsmen A 
Apprentices 


E13. Gardens 

The herb and vegetable garden is tended 
daily and provides food and herbs for the 
kitchens. The gardener responsible for the 
flower garden is always drunk and rarely 
does anything to it, consequently it is a 
mass of weeds and briars. It requires 
extensive work to reclaim it and make it 
suitable for growing flowers. 

E14. Summer House 

This building is overgrown with weeds 
and in a state of near collapse. 

E15. The Exalted Halls 

Waldegrave and Tyrwhitt, two of the Lords 
Spiritual, have their apartments here. 
Waldegrave's is soiled and unkempt, but 
Tyrwitt's is one of the few clean places in 
the palace. As a result, Tyrwhitt is hated by 
his servants for working them too hard. 


E16. The Magnificum 

This large building houses Siranush, the 
Lord High Spiritual, and her personal 
servants. Her audience chamber is in a 
better state of repair than most of the 
palace, but her inner chambers are covered 
in dust and cobwebs. 


17. The Sacred Aisle 

The Scared Aisle (i.e. the Temple), is 
surprisingly well kept. The Lords Spiritual 
are unanimous in insisting that it is kept 
clean and that incense is burnt here 
regularly. The Flamens of the Praefecture 
(Clerics) are very dedicated and the Aisle 
shows none of the signs of neglect so 
common elsewhere. 


E18. The Treasury 

The wealth of Eylea is kept here behind 
securely locked doors to which Siranush 
and Clavados are the only ones to have a 
key. 

E19. Hall of Wisdom and Knowledge 

Numerous ancient religious and moral 
texts are shelved around the walls of this 
room. It is looked after by Father Barnez, 
the librarian. He is a cantankerous old 
busy-body, who lets no-one look at his 
books without the written permission of 
the Lords Spiritual, Clavados the High 
Bailiff, Gardict the Arch-pontefact, or 
Kilanas the Praescriptor (see Eylea's 
Hierarchy - above). Even then, he uses the 
excuse of concern for his books to be 
obstructive, and always stands imperiously 
by the shoulder of any would-be reader. 


E20. Hall of Ruling and Justice 

Civil and religious law is dispensed from 
here, (see Trial for Murder, p7). 

E21. Halls of Scripting 

In numerous small rooms throughout this 
building, the scribes or members of the 
Praefecture spend their days entering the 
records of Eylea's accounts into numerous 
leather-bound ledgers, or preparing illum 
inated copies of sacred manuscripts . 

E22. The Distinguished Halls 

These halls house the officers of the guard 
and the Praefecture. 

Pasture 

50 cows and 150 sheep are looked after by 6 
herdsmen and shepherds on the pasture 
land to the south and west of Eylea. 

The Common Realm 

Eylea's commoners sleep near to their place 
of work. Personal servants sleep in rooms 
near to their masters, craftsmen sleep at 
their workplaces and gardeners near their 
gardens. The rest of Eylea's commoners 
sleep in chambers by the kitchens. 


II (Eylea) PULL-OUT SHEET 


(c) February 1986. TSR, Inc., All Rights Reserved 







































































Eylea's NPCs 

Cavaliers 

Clavados - Lord-High Bailiff of Eylea 

Clavados summons the adventurers to Eylea and 
requests their aid in the case of Miles D'Arcy. His 
strong sense of justice means that he will pursue 
Nuala and Miles (the duplicate) relentlessly. 

Appearance: Male; 79 years old; Lean and 
wiry, healthy looking. 

Clothing: Embroidered gold surcoat bearing 
Eylea's device - an eel coiled around a sword. 
On parade, special occasions, or if Eylea is 
under attack, Clavados wears his engraved 
and gilded magical full plate armour +2 and a 
shield +2 both bearing Eylea's device. 
Personality: Partially deaf, can only hear those 
who shout or speak into his hearing trumpet. 
Aloof and snobbish to those whom he 
considers below his station. Amiable and 
friendly to those of equal status (including the 
PCs). Subservient to the Lords Spiritual. 
Equipment: Full plate armour +2, shield +2, 
heavy lance, longsword +3, horseman's 
military pick +1, dagger +2, ring of fire 
resistance, potion of super-heroism and a 
gilded ivory hearing trumpet (value 500gp). 

Gard (aged heavy warhorse): AC 7 or 3 with plate 
barding; MV 12" or 9"(with barding); HD 3+3; 
hp 12; #AT 3; D 1-6/1-6/1-2; Int Anl; AL N ; 
Size L;THACO 18; MM53. 

Otto (old war dog): AC 6; MV 9"; HD 2+2; hp 6; 
#AT 1; D 1-4; Int Semi; AL N; Size M; 
THACO 18; MM29. 

(c) February 1986, TSR, Inc., All Rights Reserved 


Note: Both animals are very old and have 
reduced chances to hit and damage. 

Abilities: S14.96%, 113, W18, D14.67%, 
C 16.35%, Ch9, Com 13. 

AC 10 or -4; MV 9"; Cav 12; hp 66; #AT 5/2 
lancet, longsword +3f, military pick + If or 2/1 
dagger +2; D 2d4+13 (lancef), ld8+3 (swordf), 
ld4 + 2 (military pickf), ld4+2 (dagger); 
SA/SD As standard for class and level; AL LN; 
THACO 7 (lance), 4 (sword), 6 (pick) or 7 
(dagger). 

Note: Clavados has had a special vows spell cast 
on him (UA32) making him immune to 
bestow curse spells. 

Rupert De Ganson - Guard Captain 

Rupert serves under Clavados as Captain of the 
Guard. His prime loyalties are to the Lords 
Spiritual, and to the law. 

Appearance: Male, 45 years old, tall and very 
muscular. 

Clothing: Maroon surcoat, or engraved full 

plate armour and shield +2 (each bearing 
Eylea's device: an eel coiled round a sword). 
Personality: Extremely lawful, Rupert always 
follows the letter of the law, even if it is unjust 
or unfair. He carries out orders unfailingly. 
Equipment: Full plate armour; shield +2; ring 
of protection +2 (when not wearing armour); 
heavy lance, long sword +2, dagger +1, and a 
potion of vitality. 

Abilities: S18.85%, 114, Wll, D18.23%, C17.38%, 
Chl3, Comil. 


AC4 or -6; MV 12" or 6"; Cav9; hp 89; #AT 2/1 
lancef, long sword +2f, flailf, or 3/2 dagger +1; 
D 2d4 + 14 (lancef) ld8+6 (swordf). ld4+5 
(flailf) or d4+5 (dagger); SA/SD As standard for 
class and level; AL LN; THACO 8 (lancef), 6 
(swordf), 9 (flailf) or 9 (dagger). 

Note: Rupert has had a special vows spell cast on 
him (UA32) making him immune to bestow 
curse spells. 

Aubrey Stronhaus - Esquire to Clavados 

Aubrey serves Clavados at meals and helps him 
to put on his armour. In battle he carries 
Clavados' lance and banner. After Clavados is 
arrested, Aubrey's loyalties are lorn between 
Clavados and the law. 

Appearance: Male; 17 years old but looks 
younger; medium height and build with 
blond hair and green eyes. 

Clothing: While surcoat or field plate armour 
and shield (each bearing Eylea's device: an eel 
coiled round a sword). 

Personality: Loyal and keen to assist, well- 
meaning but naive. 

Equipment: Field plate armour and shield; 
heavy lance, long sword +1; silver herald's 
trumpet (value lOOgp). 

Abilities: S17.59%, 113, W10, D17.02%, C18.45%, 
Chl4, Coml5. 

AC 7 or -2; MV 12" or 6"; Cav3; hp 32; #AT 3/2 
lancef, long sword +lf or 1/1 dagger; D Lance 
2d4+5, sword ld8+2 or dagger ld4+l; SA/SD As 
standard for class and level; AL LG; THACO 16 
(lancef), 15 (swordf) or 17 (dagger). 

PULL-OUT SHEET (Non-Player Characters) III 

















The Lords Spiritual 

Siranush - High Lord Spiritual 

Siranush is the most senior of the Lords 
Spiritual and has ruled Eylea for 33 years. Her 
commitment to the law is absolute, but in recent 
years she has taken less and less interest in the 
running of Eylea. 

Appearance: Female; 92 years old; old and 
withered, very wrinkled face, bent double, 
walks very shakily, penetrating stare. 
Clothing: Slightly tattered ermine-edged red 
robe, or plate mail armour +2 and a shield +2. 
Personality: Alternates between being very 
astute and vacant. Knows she is not long for 
this world but reluctant to hand over power to 
her "younger assistants". 

Equipment: Rod of flailing (9 charges), bracers 
of defence AC2, plate mail armour +2 and a 
shield +2. 

Abilities: S 8, I 15, W 20, D 7, C 7, Ch 14, Com 10. 

AC 2 or -2; MV 9"; C13; hp 46; #AT 2 rod of 
flailing; D ld4+4/ld4+4; AL LN; THACO 9. 

Spells: 

1st level: command (x2), ceremony, cure light 
wounds (x2), detect evil, protection 
from evil 

2nd level: augury, enthrall, hold person (x2), 
silence 15' radius (x2), slow poison, 
withdraw 

3rd level: cure blindness, cure disease, death's 
door, dispel magic (x2), feign death, 
paralysis 

4th level: cloak of fear, cure serious wounds 
(x2), sticks to snakes, tongues 
5th level: flame strike, quest 
6th level: heal, blade barrier 

Waldegrave - Lord Spiritual 

Waldegrave is second in charge of Eylea, but she 
is constantly ill from recurring attacks of the 
"vapours". Cure disease spells keep the "vap 
ours" at bay for only a short time so she is nearly 
always in a state of ill-health. She takes little 
interest in anything but her health. 

Appearance: Female; age 73; pale and sickly 
looking. 

Clothing: Always wrapped in an old moth- 
eaten mink coat; has plate mail +3 and a shield 
+1 available. 

Personality: Short tempered; does not like 
fools; strict and blunt with strangers. 

Equipment: Rod of smiting (12 charges), plate 
mail +3, and a shield +1 

Abilities: S6,112, W18, D5, C3, Chll, Com8. 

AC 10 or -2; MV 6"; C12; hp 19; #AT 1 Rod of 
Smiting; D ld8+3; AL LN; THACO 12. 


Spells: 

1st level: bless, command (x3), cure light 
wounds (x3), penetrate disguise, 

2nd level: detect life, dust devil, hold person 
(x2), know alignment, silence 15' 
radius, wyvern watch 

3rd level: bestow curse, cure disease (x2 - 1 
already cast), dispel magic, feign 
death, magical vestment 
4th level: cure serious wounds (x2), neutralise 
poison, sticks to snakes 
5th level: quest, raise dead 
6th level: heal, speak with monsters 


Tyrwhitt - Lord Spiritual 

Tyrwhitt is a luxury loving individual. Most of 
Eylea's running falls to him, but he is never 
acceded the formal power which goes with it, or 
does little with it other than ensuring he is well 
fed and well clothed. 

Appearance: Male; age 65; bald with a long 
white beard. 

Clothing: Pale blue robe trimmed with gold 
braid and sable; all his clothes are clean and of 
the finest quality; in times of need wears 
highly polished plate mail +2 and a shield +1. 
Personality: Unhappy with his lack of power; 
wishes to be High Lord Spiritual, and always 
tries to take control of any meeting of the 
Lords. In her astute moments, Siranush 
always puts him in his place. 

Equipment: Mace +3 and ring of protection +3, 
plate mail +2 and a shield +1. 

Abilities: SI4, 110, W18, DIO, C12, Chll, Com9. 

AC 7 or-1; MV 12"; Cl 1; hp 52; #AT 1 mace+3; 
D ld6+4; AL LN; THACO 8. 

Spells: 

1st level: cure light wounds (x3), detect good, 
light, remove fear, sanctuary 
2nd level: aid, enthrall, hold person (x2), silence 
15' radius, withdraw 

3rd level: cause blindness, dispel magic, feign 
death, magical vestment, prayer 
4th level: cure serious wounds, poison, protect 
ion from evil 10' rad., sticks to snakes 
5th level: cure critical wounds, quest 
6th level: animate object 

Praefecture etc. 

Kilanas - Praescriptor of Eylea 

Kilanas is a senior member of the Praefecture 
responsible for the scribes of Eylea. After 
Clavados is arrested (see pl5) Kilanas asks the 
PCs to rescue him. He is more concerned with 
justice than in keeping the letter of the law. 

Appearance: Male; 36 years old; tall with 
blonde hair and blue eyes. 



Clothing: Clean but frayed dark blue robe with 
yellow trimmings, or plate mail armour and 
shield. 

Personality: Very honest, thoughtful and kind. 

Equipment: Staff +1, scroll with cure critical 
wounds, neutralise poison and remove 
paralysis. 

Abilities: S14,l 14, W16, Dll,C15,Chl3,Coml3. 

AC 10 or 2; MV 12"; C7; hp 32; #AT 1 staff +1; 

D ld6+l; AL LN(G); THACO 16. 

Spells: 

1st level: ceremony, cure light wounds (x2), 
light, sanctuary 

2nd level: aid, enthrall, hold person, know 
alignment, resist fire 

3rd level: cure disease, remove curse 

4th level: detect lie 


Barnez (Librarian) and Corphalt (Bursar) 
Appearance: 

B - Male, middle-aged, thin, balding. 

C - Male, late middle-aged, plump, bearded. 

Clothing: 

B - Grey, ink-stained robe or plate mail 
armour and shield. 

C - Yellow, ill-fitting robe or plate mail 
armour and shield. 

Personality: 

B - Introverted, intellectual, aloof. 

C - Self-indulgent, arrogant, drinks heavily. 

Abilities: AC 10 or 2; MV 12"; C6; hp 24, 17; 
#AT 1 mace; D ld6+l; AL LN; THACO 18. 

Spells: 

1st level: ceremony, cure light wounds, light, 
sanctuary 

2nd level: aid, enthrall, hold person, resist fire 
3rd level: cure disease, remove curse 


IV PULL-OUT SHEET (Non-Player Characters) 


(c) February 1986, TSR Inc., All Rights Reserved 

















Abillard - Beadle 

Appearance: Male; aged 50; short, thin, 
unkempt. 

Clothing: Tattered, red cloak over leather 
armour and shield. 

Personality: Pompus, cowardly. 

Abilities: AC 7; MV 12"; FI; hp 7; #AT 3/2 
(ceremonial) mace+; D ld6+3 + ; AL LN; 
THACO 19+. 


Other NPCs 

Clerics: AC 10 or 2; MV 12" or 6"; Cl-6; 
hp 3-5/level; #AT 1 mace; D ld6+l; Int Ave; AL 
LN; THACO 20. 

Note: Plate armour is available to all clerics in 
Eylea, but is rarely worn. 

Spells 

As many as possible from the following: 

1st level: ceremony, cure light wounds, light 
2nd level: aid, enthrall, hold person 
3rd level: cure disease 

Commoners: AC 10; MV 12"; F0; hp 2-4; 
#AT Nil; Int Low; ALLN. 


Miscellaneous 


Zelor the Grim 



Sensing the resurrection of Nuala, Zelor has 
entered the Ffenargh and seeks to aid good 
aligned characters in the hope that they can 
counter the evil of Nuala. During the course of 
the adventure Zelor appears to the party three 
times (see p4, pl3 & p22). 

Appearance: Zelor can only appear at night in 
one of three forms - a large black owl, a black 
cat or a black dog (MMII72): 

Large black owl: AC 0; MV 18736"; HD 4+2; 
hp27; #AT 3; D 2d4/2d4/d4+1; MR 25%; Int Ave; 
ALNG; SizeS; THACO 15. 

Blackdog: AC0; MV18"; HD4+2; hp27;#AT 1; 
D 2d4; MR 25%; Int Ave; AL NG; Size S; 
THACO 15. 


Eylea's Defence 


In the event of an attack Eylea's guard move to 
defend the palace. The guards assemble in the 
courtyard (8 rounds). A lieutenant is sent by 
Clavados or Rupert with two squads to 
reinforce each of the gatehouses (3 rounds); 
and two squads are divided between the four 
guard posts (5 rounds). The remaining troops 
are then used to mount as effective a defence as 
possible, with Rupert and Clavados avoiding 
personal combat unless honour demands it. 

At night, or if they arc not led by Rupert or 
Clavados they take twice as long to move into 
position. 

Clerical Support: Once the alarm has been 
raised the Lords Spiritual and the members of 
the Praefecture prepare to defend Eylea. 
Depending on the urgency of the defence the 
Lords will stop to don armour (20 rounds) or 
arrive as soon as possible (ld4+9 rounds). 
Most members of the Praefecture will stop to 
put on their armour, relying on the guard to 
defend Eylea while they do so (20 rounds). 


4 Lieutenants: AC 2 (plate & shield); MV 6"; 
F5; hp 42; #AT 3/2 long sword + Iff; 
D ld8+4ff; Int Very; AL LN; THACO 12ff. 

16 Sergeants: AC 4 (chainmail & shield); 
MV 9"; F3; hp 24; #AT 3/2 long sword f: 
D ld8+2f; Int Very; AL N; THACO 17f. 

128 Men-at-arms: AC 5 (chainmail); MV9"; 
FI; hp 8; #AT 1; D See below; Int Ave; 
ALN; THACO 20. 

Halberdier. Halberd ldlO or dagger ld4. 

Lt. Crossbowman: Lt. crossbow ld4 or 
short sword ld8. 

13 Cavalrymen: AC 4 (chainmail & shield); 
MV 18" mounted or 9" foot; F2 or F3 
(sergeant); hp 18 or 24; #AT 1 medium lance 
or long sword; D ldbfl or ld8; Int Ave; AL N; 
THACO 19 or 18. 

13 Medium warhorses: AC 7; MV 18"; 
HD 2+2; hp 9; #AT 3; D 1-6/1-6/1-3; 
Int Anl; AL N; Size L; THACO 16. 


Black cat: AC 0; MV 18"; HD 4+2; hp 27; #AT 3; 
D Id2/ld2/ld4; SA/SD Rakes with rear claws 
(D Id3/ld3) if front paws both hit; MR 25%; 
Int Ave; AL NG; Size S; THACO 15. 

Note: Turns undead as C8 (+2 vs. lower planes 
creatures); +1 weapons to be hit; protection 
from evil 10' radius; detect evil 7"; nocturnal; 
heals all damage while ethereal during the 
day. 


Life-bane Duplicate: The duplicate's aim is 
to manoeuvre the party into Nuala's trap. 

Appearance: Male; 25 years old. 

Clothing: Blue surcoat emblazened with an 
argent rampant hippogriff. 

Personality: Miles' duplicate is haughty and 
mean. It enjoys tricking the "worthies" of 
Eylea, using their own laws to make them 
look foolish. 


Miles D'Arcy - Heir to Myrkfast 



Miles is duplicated by Nuala before the adventure 
begins. His duplicate, masquerading as Miles, is 
charged at Eylea with murder of Geoffrey 
D'Arcy, while the aged original is imprisoned at 
Lorge. 


Abilities: S18.67%, 113, W14, D17.37%, C17.09%, 

Ch 12, Com 14. 

AC 7 (surcoat); MV 15"; Cav 6; hp 47; #AT N/A; 

D N/A; SA/SD Regenerates 2 hp per round; 

ALLE; THACO N/A. 

Original: A ruined man, Miles' onlywish is to 

be free of Nuala's power. 

Appearance: Male, apparently 100+ years old. 

Clothing: Faded, threadbare, blue surcoat 
bearing a rampant hippogriff. 

Personality: Nuala's betrayal of Miles has left 
him an insane wreck (he cannot be cured). 

Abilities: S15.67%, 113, W13, D14.37%,C14.09%, 

Chl2, Com 10. 

AC 10 (surcoat); MV 3"; Cav 6; hp 29; #AT N/A; 

D N/A; AL LG; THACO N/A. 

Note: Miles is too decrepit to fight even if given 
weapons; his hands shake so badly that any 
weapon he is given will be sent clattering by 
his involuntary spasms. 


PULL-OUT SHEET (Non-Player Characters) V 


(c)February 1986, TSR. Inc., All Rights Reserved 


















Nuala - Mistress Of Lorge 



Nuala is the prime force behind the evils which 
face the adventurers (see Introduction, p2). Her 
sole aim is domination of the Ffenargh. 


Appearance: Nuala's appearance varies from 
that of a beautiful young woman (age 18) to 
that of an old crone (age 100+). 

Clothing: scale mail +4, platinum headband 
with a ruby (value - 3500gp), four gold 
armbands (value - 500gp each), two gold 
necklaces (value - 500gp & 250gp), platinum 
and gem choker (value - 5000gp) and a gold 
belt buckle (value - lOOOgp). 

Personality: Totally evil and interested only in 
herself. 

Abilities: SI6,117, W9, D16, C16, Chl6, Com20 
(decreases by 1 point for every 5 years aged). 

Note: The Nuala which Miles resurrected is 
radically changed from the wizardess who 
died so long ago. Although Nuala retains all 
of her old powers and abilities, she has gained 
the awesome power of life-bane (see PSVI1), 
and can also cast spells while wearing 
armour. When she casts spells, Nuala ages 1 
year per level of magic used. Her life-bane 
power enables her to rejuvenate, however. 

AC 0 (scale mail+4); MV 12"; F2/MU14 (15 with 
familiar); hp59; #AT 1 short sword+3 or dagger 
of venom; D ld6+4 or ld4+2; MR Std or 25% (see 
below); AL NE; xp 15,680; THACO 13 (sword), 

15 (dagger). 

Spells: 

1st level: burning hands, magic missile x2, 
run, shield 

2nd level: detect good, invisibility, mirror image, 
vocalise, web 

3rd level: dispel magic x2, haste, lightning 
boll, Melf's minute meteors 

VI PULL-OUT SHEET (Non-Player Characters) 


4th level: dimension door, Evard's black ten 
tacles, fear, minor globe of invul 
nerability, polymorph self 
5th level: animate dead, cloudkill, feeblemind, 
hold monster, wall of force 
61h level: flesh to stone, project image 
7th level: Bigby's grasping hand 

Nuala has already cast a stoneskin spell on 
herself which stays in effect until she is 
physically attacked. 

Equipment: scale mail +4, short sword +3, 
dagger of venom, girdle of many pouches, 
scroll of protection from paralysation, potion 
of flying, shadow lanthorn (summons 5-8 
shadows: AC7; MV 12"; HD 3+3; hp 22; #AT 1; 
D ld4+l; SA/SD Strength drain; Int Low; AL 
CE; Size M; xp 343 each; THACO 16; MM86). 

Spell Books: Contain the above spells plus: 

1st level: affect normal fires, detect magic, find 
familiar, friends, hold portal, read 
magic, sleep 

2nd level: audible glamer, darkness 15' radius, 
preserve, magic mouth, rope trick 
3rd level: blink, explosive runes, feign death, 
sepia snake sigil, wind wall 
4th level: fumble, remove curse, shout 
5th level: Leomund's secret chest, sending 
6th level: part water, spiritwrack 
7th level: Mordenkainen's magnif. mansion 

Nuala's spellbooks are kept on the ethereal 
plane in a Leomund's secret chest (see below). 
Each is protected by both explosive runes and 
sepia snake sigil spells. 


Jarzizt the Imp Familiar 

Jarzizt is Nuala's imp familiar and a 
telepathic link exists between her and it. 
Nuala is able to see through Jarzizt's eyes 
gaining 25% magic resistance and the 
ability to regenerate 1 hp per round 
whenever it is within 1" of her. While 
Jarzizt is within a mile of Nuala she gains 
an extra level (making her 15th level). If 
Jarzizt is killed, Nuala is reduced to level 
10, with 50 hit points. 

Jarzizt spies for Nuala, using its invisibility 
to watch unobserved. It rarely engages in 
combat, preferring to stay near to Nuala, 
but if an opportunity arises, Jarzizt will 
attack an enemy magic-user. 

AC 2; MV 6718"; HD 2+2; hp 17; #AT 1; 
D 1-4 + poison: SA/SD Detect good, detect 
magic, invisibility, polymorph self, at will; 
suggestion once per day; immune to 
normal weapons, cold, fire and electricity; 
regenerates 1 hp per round, saves as a 7HD 
monster; MR 25%; Int Ave; AL LE; Size S 
2' tall); xp 326; THACO 16; MM(54). 


The Leomund's secret chest used by Nuala to 
safeguard her treasure, contains her spell books 
(see above) and the following items: 

- a gold, gem-encrusted casket (6500gp) con 
taining 23 gems (lOxlOOOgp, 3x5000gp and 
10x500gp) and a diamond necklace (15,000gp). 

- 2 candles of invocation (any good alignment). 

- 5780gp and 1368pp. 

- a philosopher's stone (with both green and 
white powders) 

- a velvet pouch with 2 vials: elixir of madness, 
and oil of acid resistance. 


Rughlor - Deceased Lord of Lorge 



Following the resurrection of Nuala by Miles 
D'Arcy, Rughlor has risen again as a revenant, 
determined to kill Nuala and remove her evil 
from the world. 

Appearance: Rughlor appears as a knight in 
tarnished armour. Beneath his armour, his 
sickly pale skin is stretched tightly over his 
bones. Anyone viewing Rughlor's face must 
make a saving throw vs. Paralysation or flee in 
fear for ld4 rounds. When Rughlor is close to 
Nuala, his eyes glow with a bright red light 
visible even through his helmet slits. 
Personality: Rughlor seeks only to slay Nuala. 
Equipment: Full plate armour, shield +2, long 
sword +2. 

Abilities: AC -2 (Full plate armour and shield 
+2); MV 9", 13" mounted; HD 8; hp 64; #AT 2 
long sword+2; D ld8+4/ld8+4; Int High; ALN; 
Size N; xp 1975; THACO 6; FF75 (amended). 
Note: Cannot be turned; immune to weapon 
attacks; regenerates all damage even when 
"dead" at 3 hp/round (except fire damage); 
severed limbs move independently; immune 
to sleep, charm, hold etc. 

Rughlor's skeleton warhorse: AC 5; MV 13"; 
HD 3 + 3; hp 26; #AT 2 hooves/1 bite; 
D Id8/ld8/ld3; Int Non; AL N; Size L; xp 239; 
THACO 16. 

Note: Cannot be turned; can trample creatures in 
its path (ld8 hp each); wears chainmail 
barding; immune to charm, cold, hold and 
sleep spells; takes only half damage from 
edged weapons. 

(c) February 1986, TSR Inc., All Rights Reserved 
















The heady springtime of youth and the full 
summer of adulthood - enjoy them while you 
may, bold adventurers. Soon enough, will you 
feel the icy chill of old age reach, out for you. 
Sooner, perhaps, than you think! 

The dark discoveries which Nuala made in 
the library of Makhrazt had given her 
access to powers beyond her dreams (see 
p2), and it was only Rughlor's intervention 
at her final rite of magic which had 
prevented her gaining them there and then. 
Though Nuala was dead, the spell she had 
begun was not broken. Her death was no 
more than an interruption to it and, for 
many years as she lay in her grave, the 
forces she had awoken continued to seethe 
and ferment. Thus it was that when Miles 
D'Arcy foolishly resurrected the sorceress 
and so completed the spell, she was reborn 
with the power she had craved... the power 
of life-bane! 

The Power of Life-Bane 

Nuala's necromantic power of life-bane is 
an awesome one, since it enables her to 
drain the youth and vitality of humans and 
demi-humans in either of two ways: 

Self-Rejuvenation 

Each round, Nuala can attempt to absorb 
vitality from one human or demi-human 
victim up to 30 feet away. The victim is 
aged by 10 years (cf. ghost - MM43), and 
Nuala is rejuvenated by 10 years. A 
successful saving throw vs. Death Magic by 
the victim will negate the effect. Anyone 
killed by this draining becomes a juju 
zombie (MMII131) under Nuala's control. 

Since Nuala ages rapidly when casting 
spells (see PSVI), she must use this ability 
frequently in order to remain youthful and 
powerful. Nuala cannot use this power to 
affect creatures of whom duplicates already 
exist (or have existed - see below). 


Creating Duplicates 

With this ability, Nuala can create a 
duplicates of a human or demi-human 
creatures and their equipment. These 
duplicates are parasitic entities which 
constantly drain and consume the vitality 
of their victims through an undetectable 
magical link. The duplicates are totally 
loyal to Nuala and, since they consume the 
victims' life-energy at a vastly accelerated 
rate, are more powerful than the originals. 
Life-bane duplicates are described on p24. 


Effects on Duplicated Victims 

Characters who are victims of one of 
Nuala's duplicates have almost all of their 
vitality constantly tapped away as fast as 
they can generate it. This means that they 
are transformed to the equivalent of 
venerable age (see DMG13) and shortly die 
from the strain. In addition to changing 
the victims' ability scores, the parasitic 
ageing also affects their equipment, ability 
to use certain magic, physical fitness, 
appearances and personalities. 

Regaining Youth 

Permanent Restoration 

The only way in which characters preyed 
on by duplicates can permanently regain 
their youthful vigour is if the duplicates are 
destroyed. When this occurs, no matter 
where the victims are at the time, they 
immediately revert to their original age. 

Any gains (or losses) of experience points, 
hit points, treasure and/or equipment 
made by the original characters while they 
were aged are carried over when the 
character is rejuvenated. Thus, for example, 
a character who expended charges from a 
wand while aged does not have the charges 
restored. Also, while characters whose 
constitutions rise as a result of their 
rejuvenation will regain hit points for this 
reason, any unhealed wounds or other lost 
hit points are not restored. 

Characters whose duplicates have been 
destroyed can never again be affected by 
either of Nuala's life-bane powers. 

Temporary Restoration 

Characters affected by duplicates may 
temporarily regain their former youth and 
abilities by taking a potion of longevity (no 
chance of reversed effect - see DMG126) or 
an elixir of youth. Each of these will restore 
the character for as many turns as it would 
have restored years of life under normal 
circumstances, but has no effect on equip 
ment. The duplicate and its powers are 
unaffected. 


Time for Dying 

The aged victim of a life-bane duplicate 
suffers enormously from the strain and has 
but a short time to live. 

After the initial ageing process, characters 
who are being drained by a duplicate will 
live for ld4+20 days, plus a number of days 
equal to their initial constitution. 


After Death 

When a victim dies from the strain of being 
drained by a duplicate, he or she becomes a 
j uj u zombie (MMII131) loyal to, and under 
the control of, Nuala. 


Effects on PCs' Equipment 

Just as characters become old and haggard 
when under the influence of a duplicate, 
their equipment (even magical items) is 
affected in similar ways, for example: - 

- non-precious metals become spotted 
with rust (steel & iron) or verdisgris 
(brass, bronze & copper) 

- fabrics become faded and threadbare 

- leather and wood become dry, dull and 
split 

- food and drink (including potions) taste 
musky and stale 

- horses and other animals are aged. 

It is up to you as DM to decide how much 
effect, if any, these changes have on the 
usefulness of the equipment. For example, 
an aged horse might move at half normal 
speed and be unable to gallop, while a 
frayed rope might break at a critical 
moment. 


Forbidden Magic 

Characters affected by a duplicate are 
unable to use any magic which normally 
has the effect of causing ageing (e.g. casting 
a wish spell, taking a potion of speed or 
being under a haste spell - see DMG13). 
Any attempt to use such magic will fail, 
and result in the character collapsing 
unconscious from shock for 3d4 rounds. 


Ability Score Changes 

When the draining power of duplicates 
takes effect, the victims' ability scores are 
affected in the same way that they would be 
had they reached venerable old age 
(DMG13) by normal ageing. In turn, these 
changes affect the victims' "to hit" rolls, 
combat damage, armour classes, saving 
throws, hit points and so on. 

The total, cumulative changes to ability 
scores depend on the initial age of each 
victim, as follows: 

Young Adult: S -3,1 +2, W +4, D -3, C -3, 
Ch 0, Com -3. 

Mature Victim: S -4,1 +2, W +3, D -3, C -3, 
Ch 0, Com -3. 


(c) February 1986, TSR, Inc., All Rights Reserved 


PULL-OUT SHEET (Life-Bane) VII 





Middle-aged Victim: S -3,1 +1, W +2, D -3, 

C -2, Ch 0, Com -2 

Old Victim: S-l, I+1,W+1,D-1, C-l, ChO, 
Com -1 

Venerable Victim: No change. 

Disabilities & Other Changes 

While affected by a duplicate, each char 
acter acquires a disability, and undergoes a 
physical change and a personality change. 

The disabilities are intended to impose 
significant limitations on the characters, 
but the the other changes should be used to 
help the players role-play their altered 
characters and to inject an element of 
humour into the adventure. 

The disabilities and changes are listed in 
Table 2. As DM, you can either assign them 
to characters at random (by rolling ldlO for 
each column) or else allocate them as you 
see fit. 


Disabilities 

Note: In addition to the effects described 
below, the disabilities brought about by the 
magical ageing have more general (and 
much less important) effects which the 
players (with the DM's help) should 
improvise. For example, a character with 
deafness would have difficulty following 
conversations, or a short-sighted character 
might not recognise a friend at a distance. 

Dodderyness - The characters' movements 
are stiff and slow. Movement rate is reduced 
by a third and characters with climb walls 
and move silently ability use them with a 
-25% penalty. 

Slow Reactions - Initiative for these 
characters is taken as being 2 less than that 
rolled for the rest of the party. This may 
result in the character losing initiative, 
even if the rest of the party win it. 


Short-sightedness - The characters have 
difficulty seeing objects at a distance, and 
have a penalty "to hit" with missile 
weapons of -1 for for each 2" (rounded 
down) of range. If a spell is cast at a 
particular point (rather than at a creature, 
e.g. fireball, stinking cloud) more than 2" 
away, there is 30% chance that the spell will 
"miss" the aim-point by ldlO feet. The 
direction of the miss is determined at 
random (cf. Grenade-like Missiles - 
DMG65). 

Long-sightedness - Characters have diffi 
culty seeing objects close-to. Those with 
open locks, find/remove traps and/or read 
languages abilities use them with a -20% 
penalty. Characters reading from magical 
scrolls have a 40% chance of misreading the 
text, thus ruining the spell concerned, and 
magic users (or illusionists) take four times 
as long to relearn their spells from their 
spell books. 

Absent-mindedness - The characters have a 
tendency to forget things at crucial 
moments. When casting a spell (or using a 
magical item which requires a command 
word), there is a 30% chance that the 
characters will not be able to bring to mind 
the details of the spell (or the command 
word). Although the spell cannot be cast 
(or the item used) that round, the infor 
mation is not actually forgotten and the 
characters can make another attempt (with 
the same chance of failure) in the next 
round. 

Unsteady Hands - The characters' hands 
are unsteady, giving a -1 penalty "to hit" 
on melee attacks and -3 on missile attacks. 
There is a 5% chance that the characters' 
shaking will ruin the casting of any spell 
with a somatic component. Those using 
pick pockets or remove traps skills suffer a 
-35% penalty. 

Deafness - The characters have very poor 
hearing. Their chance to hear noise is 
reduced by 25%, and all rear attacks on 


TABLE 2 - MISCELLANEOUS EFFECTS OF LIFE-BANE AGEING 


Die 

Roll 

Disabilities 

Other Changes 

Physical 

Personality 

1 

Dodderyness 

Weight Change 

Intolerance 

2 

Slow reactions 

Wrinkles 

Confusion 

3 

Short-sight 

Hair Changes 

Indifference 

4 

Long-sight 

Shortness 

Short temper 

5 

Absent-minded 

Stoop 

Know-it-all 

6 

Unsteady Hands 

Drooling 

Muttering 

7 

Deafness 

Tooth Loss 

Sensitivity 

8 

Frailty 

Sniffles 

Resignation 

9-10 

DM's Choice 

- Roll twice more, using ld8 - 


them are at +2 "to hit". Also, surprise rolls 
are made separately for these characters, 
and the scores obtained cannot exceed that 
of the rest of the party. 

Frailty - Characters are particularly vulner 
able to injury, and suffer 1 extra point of 
damage per die from cutting blows, heat 
and cold, and 2 extra points per die from 
crushing blows. 


Changes in Appearance 

Weight Change - Characters gain (50% 
chance) or lose (50%) (Id3xl0)% in weight. 

Wrinkles - The characters' skin becomes 
deeply lined with wrinkles. 

Hair Changes - The character's hair turns 
grey (60% chance) or white (40%). The char 
acter (males only) also loses most (50% 
chance) or all (50%) of his hair. 

Shortness - Characters become shorter by 
10-15% (ld6+9). 

Stoop - Character has a pronounced sloop. 

Drooling - Characters tend to drool. 

Tooth Loss - All but ld4 of the characters' 
teeth are lost. 

Sniffles - Characters are afflicted with a 
permanent runny nose (unaffected by cure 
disease etc. spells). 


Personality Changes 

Intolerance - Characters become intolerant 
particularly of something or somebody 
(e.g. dwarves, children, animals, music). 

Indifference - Characters have a tendency to 
lose interest occasionally in events and/or 
those around them. 

Short Temper - Characters sometimes 
become angry at the least provocation. 

Know-it-all - Characters always think that 
they know best. 

Muttering - Characters often mutter to 
themselves. 

Sensitivity - Characters can be irritated by 
the slightest discomfort, either real or 
imagined (e.g. a draught, a lumpy bed 
smoke from a fire). 

Resignation - Occasionally, the characters 
become despondent, losing drive and will 
power and "giving-in" until talked round. 


VIII PULL-OUT SHEET (Life-Bane) 


e February 1986, TSR, Inc., All Rights Reserved 










• Obtaining the key. The shimmering rod 
of force which is the "key" to the cage is 
firmly held by one of the golems. If the 
golems are enraged and enter the cage 
(seep 12), they are affected by the slowing 
magic and fight the party on equal 
terms. If the right golem is destroyed, it 
drops the key. 

• Last resort. If, by the night after their 
capture, the party has not escaped, the 
grim Zelor (PSV), in black dog form 
sneaks into the chamber, attacks one of 
the golems and then dodges into the cage 
(using its magic resistance). The golems 
follow and, as they fight with the party, 
Zelor slips away. 


Leaving Lorge Hall 

As they start to climb the stairs from the 
cellar, the adventurers hear (or at least 
those not affected by deafness hear) sounds 
of activity above. In preparation for her 
anticipated triumphal return, Nuala has 
ordered a team of human/pseudo-undead 
crossbreeds (see People of the Ffenargh, p4) 
to clear out the vapour rats and rebuild 
Lorge Hall, assisted by six full-blood 
pseudo-ghasts. They are all under the 
orders of juju zombies created by her life- 
bane powers (see PS VII). 

The workers are scattered inside and 
outside the building and attack the party 
on sight, using tools (hammers, spades, 
picks, and so on) or just bare hands. 

The juju zombies and pseudo-ghasts fight 
to the death, but the crossbreeds flee if the 
juju zombies are all turned or destroyed. 

4jujuzombies: AC 6; MV 9"; HD3+12; hp27 
each; #AT 1; D 3d4; Int Low; AL N(E); Size M; 
xp 512 each; THACO 13; MMII131. 

Note: Need +1 weapons to be hit; half damage 
from all but cleaving weapons (axes, broad-, 
bastard-, or 2-handed swords, etc.); immune 
to cold, electricity, poison, and magic missile, 
sleep, hold and charm spells; fire does half 
damage; turn as spectre; climb as T6. 

6 peasants (full-blood pseudo-ghasts): AC 4; 
MV 15"; HD 4; hp 17 each; #AT 3; 
D Id4/ld4/ld8; Int Low; AL NE; Size M; xp 215 
each; THACO 15; MMII102 & MM43. 

Note: Stench (10' radius) causes -2 to hit (negated 
by saving throw vs. Poison). 

23 peasants (human/pseudo-undead cross 
breeds): AC 8; MV 9"; HD 1 +2; hp 7 each; #AT 1; 
D ld6; Int Low; AL NE; Size M; xp 34 each; 

THACO 18; p4 (People of the Ffenargh) 


Ev5. Erased Track 

This encounter occurs as the party first 
tries to leave Lorge Island. Where the track 
enters the marsh, Nuala has set a work- 


gang of spirit trolls to dig up the track and 
churn it into the bog, thus cutting off any 
pursuit. When the adventurers arrive at 
this point: 


The path ends abruptly and, for as 
far ahead as you can see, seems to 
have sunk into the reeking mire. 
Briefly, the sound of squelching 
footsteps comes from somewhere 
amid the murky pools lying across 
the path's former course. Although 
the source of the sound seems to be 
quite close, you can see no sign of 
what is making it. 


The gap made by the trolls is 400 yards 
wide, and as difficult to traverse as normal 
bog. Even a cursory examination will 
reveal that the destruction of the path was 
not natural, since large, humanoid foot 
prints and the marks of large, clawed hands 
or paws can be clearly seen in the mud. 

The sound of footsteps comes from one of 
the invisible spirit trolls who, having 
created the gap, now defend it for Nuala. As 
with the slime golems, the spirit trolls have 
orders to constrain the party rather than 
kill them. They will only intervene if the 
party attempts to cross the gap and, if the 
characters retreat, will break off any attack. 
They are intelligent, and do all that they 
can to deter the party and make a difficult 
crossing impossible. They use their invisi 
bility to the full and, if necessary, attack to 
injure and drain strength, but are clever 
enough to avoid killing adventurers. 

Unless the party is very powerful, the 
weary, old adventurers will probably find it 
impossible to cross the gap, and will be 
forced to try another route. 

10 spirit trolls: AC -2 (2 if visible); MV 15"; 
HD 5+5; hp 36 each; #AT 3; D Id6/ld3/ld3; 
MR 30%; Int Very; AL CE; Size L; xp 791 each; 
THACO 13;FF91. 

Note: Invisible; immune to cold; need magical 
weapons to be hit; regenerates 3 hp/round; 
damage inflicted by fangs (ld6) is added to 
troll's hit points; damage inflicted by claws 
(ld3 is also drained from victim's strength 
(for 2d4 turns). 

Perils of the Corpsemire 

Ev6. A Village Possessed 

This event can take place anywhere in the 
Corpsemire after the party has been to 
Lorge. 

The adventurers come across the isolated 
village of Sklat (whose location is up to 
you) which consists of 13 huts surrounded 
by a fence and ditch. 



Far from offering a friendly refuge for the 
venerable travellers, the village holds an 
unwelcome surprise for them. It has been 
taken over by a spirit naga which has killed 
the head-man and charmed the other 
inhabitants. When the party arrives, how 
ever, you should try not to give the players 
any hint that the village is different from 
the others in the Corpsemire. Superficially, 
it is a normal, drab settlement whose 
inhabitants are going about their business 
in their usual, listless manner. 

The naga fears discovery and decides that 
attack is the best form of defence. It remains 
inside the head-man's hut until it feels that 
an appropriate moment has come to attack, 
and even when it first emerges will be 
difficult to recognise since it will be 
wearing a cloak which leaves only its 
human-like head uncovered. The attack, 
when it comes, involves the villagers 
mobbing the party while the naga casts 
spells and/or attempts to charm the 
adventurers. 

1 spirit naga: AC 2 (cloak of displacement); 

MV 12"; HD 10; hp 59; #AT 1; D ld3 + poison 
(D 3d8); Int High; AL CE; Size L (15'); xp 3826; 
THACO 10; MM72. 

Note: Can permanently charm any creature 
meeting its gaze (save vs. Paralysation 
negates); head is very human in appearance; 
wears cloak of displacement. 

Spells: 

1st level: MU - light, magic missile (x3; 5 
missiles each) 

C - command (x2), endure cold/heat. 
2nd level: MU - mirror image, ESP 

C - hold person, silence 15' rad. 

3rd level: MU - lightning bolt 

36charmedpeasants(human/pseudo-undead 
crossbreeds): AC 8; MV 9"; HD 1+2; hp 7 each; 
#AT 1; D ld6; Int Low; AL Charmed; Size M; 
xp 34 each; THACO 18; p4 (People of the 
Ffenargh). 

Inside the naga's hut are the remains of the 
head-man and five other villagers whom 
the naga has killed and eaten. Also, there 
are the head-man's gear (a suit of chain 
mail armour, a longsword, a longbow +1, 
20 arrows +2) and a small chest belonging 
to the naga. 

CHILL OFF THE FEN (Events Ev5-6) 13 













TV 

"fe 


The chest is not locked, but is protected by 
the equivalent of an Evard's black tentacles 
spell. When it is opened, eight 10-foot-long 
magical black tentacles (AC 4, hp 8 each) 
reach out and grab creatures within range. 
Victims suffer ld8 points of damage in the 
first round and 3d4 in each subsequent 
round until the tentacle is destroyed. A 
successful saving throw vs. Spells by the 
victim (one for each attacking tentacle) 
destroys the tentacle concerned after the 
victim has suffered only ld4 points of 
damage. Inside the chest are a platinum 
and ruby necklace (value 25,000gp), a 
jewelled ceremonial breastplate (value 
12,000gp), three jewelled rings (value 
2800gp each) and 1610gp. 

Note: As an alternative, this event can 
occur at any one of the villages previously 
described in the Kaldefen, Sphagbog or 
Corpsemire, or on Myrk Island. 


Ev7. House on Stilts 

This event occurs at any appropriate time: 


Ahead, the trail crosses a shallow, 
murky pool by means of a wooden 
causeway on stilts. About half-way 
across, a short side-branch leads from 
the main causeway to an old, dilapi 
dated, wooden shack, also supported 
above the water. You can just see a 
shadowy figure in the doorway of the 
shack, whittling a stick and swaying 
back and forth on a rocking chair. 
The figure seems harmless, but some 
how fills you with a strange feeling 
of dread. 


The figure is a phantom (MMII100) of the 
previous inhabitant of the shack - a monk 
- who was killed by vodyanoi. His soul 
less shell now whittles incessantly at a stick 
which never grows shorter. As characters 
near the shack, they see the translucent 
figure clearly, and must make a saving 
throw vs. Spells at -2 or flee as if affected by 
a fear spell. The phantom can be dispelled 
by an exorcism spell, but also vanishes if 
the vodyanoi (see below) are killed. 

14 CHILL OFF THE FEN (Events Ev7-9) 


Beneath the surface of the 4-foot-deep pool, 
2 vodyanoi (aquatic umber hulks) are 
waiting in ambush along with 5 giant 
leeches which they have summoned (in 
place of the usual electric eels). The 
vodyanoi intend to begin their attack by 
tearing away (at a suitable moment) the 
supports of the causeway and/or shack. 
Wrecking the structure takes 1 round, 
during which characters on the causeway 
must roll less than their dexterity on ld20 
or fall into the water. Those in the shack 
must make a similar roll or be trapped by 
falling timbers. In each succeeding round, 
trapped characters can attempt to break 
free by making an open doors roll. 

2 vodyanoi: AC 2; MV 6"; HD 8; hp 43 each; 
#AT 3; D 3d4/3d4/ldlO; Int Ave; AL CE; Size L; 
xp 1080; THACO 12; FF93. 

5 giant leeches: AC 9; MV 3"; HD 2; hp 9 each; 
#AT1; D2; Int Non; AL N; Size S; xp 107 each; 
THACO 16; MM60. 

Note: Drain blood automatically after 1st hit; 
normally undetected; will go up to 30' out of 
water; no disease. 

Inside the hut (or its ruins), are the remains 
of the monk's posessions. Most (utensils, 
clothes etc.) are of no value, but there is a 
staff +3 lying on the floor. On the bed of the 
pool beneath the shack, the vodyanoi have 
hidden a sack containing 2891gp. 


Ev8. Ghostly Shape 

This event can occur at any appropriate 
time: 


At the side of a small clearing ahead, 
you spot a pale, human corpse 
slumped amid the branches of a 
thornbush. Then, a pale mist rises 
up from the corpse, forms into hum 
anoid shape and drifts towards you. 


Despite its appearance, the misty shape is 
not an undead creature, but a mishtu 
which exploits the presence of the "thorn- 
bush" - actually an animated plant 
similar to strangle weed (MM93) - to help 
it kill prey. As soon as it is attacked, the 
mishtu flees into the mist and waits for the 
adventurers to approach the bush which 
lashes out with its ensnaring branches. The 
mishtu then returns to the attack. 

1 mishtu: AC -2; MV676"; HD 8+2; hp 38; 
#AT4; D ld6+l each; MR 10%; Int High; ALNE; 
Size M; xp 2156; THACO 12; MMII84. 

Note: Need +2 weapons to be hit; immune to 
electrical and missile attacks (inc. magic 
missile); can envelop creatures and drain 1 
point of constitution/round (1 point re 
gained per day of rest); cold-based attacks 
stun for 2d6 rounds. 


1 animated thornbush: AC 6; MV Nil; HD 5; 

hp 30; #AT 9 fronds (see below); Int Anl; AL N; 
Size M; xp 365; THACO 15; cf. strangle weed 
- MM93 

Note: Thornbush grasps with 9 branches (each 
strength 12); if a victim's strength exceeds the 
combined strength of the grasping branches, 
then - chance of breaking free = lOx strength 
difference; if a victim's strength is less, then 
the victim suffers damage equal to the 
difference; grasped victims attack at -2 to hit. 

Beneath the bush are the bones of several 
previous victims, along with the remains of 
their equipment, including a potion of 
clairvoyance, 11 gems (value lOOOgp each), 
and a gold armband (value 1500gp). 


Ev9. Death of Miles 

This event only occurs if Miles was 
brought with the adventurers from Lorge. 
It takes place the night before they reach 
Eylea, and serves as an unpleasant reminder 
to the aging adventurers of how near to 
death they are themselves: 


Without warning, there is a gasp 
from Miles as he clutches his chest in 
pain and falls to the ground. 

As he collapses, his aged body first 
begins to revert into its original, 
youthful form, but then undergoes a 
more terrible conversion. In a matter 
of seconds, his skin becomes pallid 
and stretched taut over his bones, his 
eyes open with a vacant lifeless stare 
and his mouth curls up in a maniacal 
grin. Then he begins to rise, his 
fleshless fingers stretched out to 
wards you. 


Physically, Miles stood up well to the 
strain of life-bane draining, but not even he 
could endure it forever. In dying, Miles has 
become a juju zombie loyal to Nuala (see 
PS VII). His one desire is to escape from the 
party and join his mistress. If the adven 
turers attempt to restrain him, he will fight 
until destroyed. 

Miles D'Arcy (juju zombie) AC 6; MV 9"; 
HD 3+12; hp 29; #AT 1; D 3d4; Int Low; 
AL N(E); Size M; xp226; THACO 13; MMII131. 
Note: Need +1 weapons to be hit; takes half 
damage from all but cleaving weapons (axes, 
broad-, bastard- or 2-handed swords etc.); un 
affected by cold, electricity, or poison; 
immune to magic missile, sleep, hold, charm 
or illusion spells; fire has half effect; turn as 
spectre; climb like T6. 

The juju zombie is not recognisable as 
Miles D'Arcy, either dead or "alive". As 
Miles dies, of course, his duplicate (with 
Nuala, many miles away) vanishes. 













By the time the adventurers return to Eylea, their 
duplicates - accompanied by Nuaia - have 
already been to the court and have proclaimed 
the duplicate Miles innocent! In accordance 
with the law, Clavados has been stripped of Us 
rank and now languishes in the palace 
dungeons, awaiting execution. Meanwhile, 
Nuaia and the duplicates have set off far the 
Vipen-Slough to gather allies. 

The adventurers themselves have been changed 
so much that they are not even recognised on 
their return. Treatedas beggars rather than lords 
or ladies, they are even refused entry by the 
guards. 

A Mixed Welcome 

These Events occur in order when the party 
arrive back at Eylea (see PSI-II): 


EvlO. Guards at the Gate 

Until Clavados' execution, Eylea is closed 
to all outsiders. The jetty and each of the 
gates is guarded by a sergeant and 8 men-at- 
arms (see PSV). As the adventurers 
approach, the sergeant confronts them, 
hands on hips, and tells them in no 
uncertain terms that "filthy beggars and 
cripples" are not welcome at the palace. If 
questioned, he tells the adventurers that 
Clavados has been convicted of perjury and 
is to hang in the morning. He is very 
pleased by this, because he never liked the 
cavalier. 

If the guards are attacked, the full force of 
Eylea's defences will be brought to bear (see 
Eylea's Defence - PSV). 


Timely Intervention 

Shortly after the adventurers encounter the 
guards, Kilanas (see PSIV) happens by and 
wanders over to see what is happening. He 
does not recognise the adventurers at first, 
and begins to explain patiently that Eylea 
is closed to all visitors. 

It takes little more than a glance at the "old 
beggars", however, to make Kilanas suspect 


that they are, in fact, the Jury of Inquisition 
suddenly aged. At once, he orders the 
sergeant to let the adventurers pass and 
ushers them quickly to his quarters (E22). 
The conversation here will be somewhat 
confused, at first, since Kilanas has no idea 
that a duplicate Jury exists and blames the 
adventurers for Clavados' predicament. As 
soon as they are alone, he exclaims that 
their loss of youth is a "just punishment for 
wretches such as you who could perjure 
yourselves by freeing Miles and con 
demning Clavados to death." 

If the adventurers plead their innocence, 
Kilanas tests the truth of their story by 
means of a detect lie spell, and explains 
what has happened since they left: 

- A few days ago the fake Jury of 
Inquisition arrived in the company of a 
beautiful woman (Nuaia) and declared 
to the court that Miles was innocent. 

- In keeping with the law, and despite 
Kilanas' protests, Miles was freed and 
Clavados arrested, stripped of his rank 
and imprisoned in the dungeons. 

- The impostor Jury, Miles, and Nuaia set 
out from Eylea at once. Their stated 
destination was Myrkfast, but a servant 
sent by Kilanas to follow them, reported 
that they had entered the Vipen-Slough 
- a place of ill-renown where no-one of 
good intent would deign venture. 

- Clavados is to be hanged at dawn 
tomorrow in the main courtyard, and his 
body burnt on the spot. 

Unless they have already suggested it, 
Kilanas asks the adventurers to free 
Clavados. There is, he argues, no time to 
convince the court of Miles' guilt (and 
Clavados' innocence) and so he urges that 
Clavados should be rescued and taken 
swiftly away from Eylea. The rescue must 
happen tonight, since Clavados will be 
heavily guarded during and on his way to 
his execution. 

- Kilanas can give them directions to the 
dungeons where Clavados is held, and 
can describe the layout of the guardrooms 
and so on. 

- He can neither assist the adventurers 
directly nor leave Eylea with them since 


he must join the Lords Spiritual at dusk 
for an all-night vigil in the temple. 

- Finally, Kilanas urges the adventurers to 
avoid using violence if they can, and 
warns them to be as quiet as possible 
during the rescue since the dungeons are 
beneath the main barracks. 


Freeing Clavados 

The dungeons of Eylea (E4) are sited near 
to the main barracks E3) of the palace. 
Although noise from underground can not 
carry that far, there is a 25% chance that any 
sounds of combat in the guardroom (E4a) 
will be heard in the barracks, resulting in 
the raising of the alarm throughout the 
garrison (see Eylea's Defence - PSV). If this 
happens, the adventurers will have to fight 
their way out of the palace. 

The Dungeons of Eylea 

E4a. The Guardroom 

A sergeant and 8 men-at-arms (see PSV) are 
on duty in the guardroom at the top of the 
stairs to the dungeons at all times. Unless 
alerted, they will be found gambling 
and/or drinking. They have instructions to 
let no-one see Clavados without author 
isation and rudely tell the adventurers to 
leave. An offer of money or gems, however, 
will cause an immediate change in their 
attitude. They become very polite and will 
let the party enter the dungeons for a 
minimum of 5gp each, but more would be 
gladly accepted. 

There is a 25% chance that the guards will 
investigate any sound of combat in the 
dungeons below. They ignore mere shouts, 
however. 

The thick, iron-bound door at the top of 
the stairs is locked and the sergeant has the 
key. 


E4b. Stairs Down 

The air beyond the door is foul. At the 
bottom of the stairs, a damp and slimy 


RETURN TO EYLEA (Event EvlO/Areas E4a-b) 15 























passageway leads to the room of Egdor, the 
gaoler. A locked iron gate blocks the 
entrance to the chamber. 


E4c. Egdor's Room 


E4e. Likist 

Likist was formerly one of Clavados' 
personal servants who persisted in not 
cleaning his master's chambers properly. 
He has been keeping Egdor 'amused' for 
five years and is now totally insane. As the 
adventurers pass his cell, they hear a rattle 
of chains followed by a cry of, "Aaargh! 
Here they come with their boggling eyes 
and their teeth like flames. Keep 'em away, 
keep 'em away. I see all, I see the demons in 
their true forms!" 

If rescued, Likist mumbles most of the 
time, with an occasional outburst which 
could sound like a warning. Should a fight 
occur in his presence, Likist leaps onto the 
back of any fighting character and pretends 
that he is a knight on horseback, waving 
his arms and yelling, "Take that varlet!" 
and "Forwards, noble steed!" 


time), he physically resists all attempts to 
be taken. Even when persuaded to leave, he 
insists on going via his quarters to collect 
his ear-trumpet, armour and weapons. He 
explains that they can escape from Eylea by 
climbing down the outside wall. 

Clavados is somewhat ashamed of "sneak 
ing away like a thief in the night", but his 
desire to catch up with Nuala, the impostor 
Jury and, especially, the phoney Miles, 
overrides other considerations. On hearing 
that these have gone to the Vipen-Slough, 
Clavados exclaims that they must be 
"going to see the old witcher-woman 
Vyedma in her black cave." Clavados 
knows the way, and urges that he and the 
party set off in pursuit at once. 


Evil. Rupert De Canson 


The gaoler Egdor lives in this filthy room, 
dimly lit by one smoky torch. Egdor spends 
most of his time seated at a rough table 
talking to his pet rats. He sneers at the 
adventurers and refuses to let them through 
the gate, while constantly describing them 
to his 'pets' in the most contemptuous 
terms. He is not interested in money, but 
can be bribed into letting the party see 
Clavados with large gems or gem-studded 
jewellery (of at least lOOgp value). For 
"another pretty each" (i.e. a 100+gp gem or 
piece of jewellery for himself and each of 
the three rats), Egdor will even let the 
adventurers free Clavados. 


The Cells 

According to the Lords Spiritual, "One 
cannot be too harsh on the servants of 
chaos", and for extreme cases cell E4d 
serves as a torture chamber. 


Likist: AC 10; MV 6"; F0; hp 2; #AT 1 fist; D 1; 
Int/AL Insane; THACO 20*. 


E4f. Clavados 

The 'best room in the house' has been 
reserved for the former Lord Bailiff. It is 
ankle-deep in nauseating filth and Clav 
ados must crouch on a narrow ledge to stay 
free of the muck. Although resigned to his 
fate, his pride does not allow him to show 
his despair. When the characters open the 
door he rises, says "So, it is the appointed 
time," and walks towards the door. 

Clavados has been stripped of all his 
possessions including his hearing trumpet, 
and so cannot hear what characters say 
unless they shout. Even then he may 
misunderstand parts of conversations. At 
first, Clavados fails to recognise the ad 
venturers and is reluctant to go with them. 
Until convinced (this could take some 


Just entering Egdor's room as the party 
leaves the cells are Rupert De Ganson and 
the squire Aubrey (see PSIII) who are 
illicitly bringing food for Clavados. To 
counter the foul smell, Rupert carries a 
sweet-smelling hankerchief which he keeps 
putting to his nose. He also has a bottle of 
perfume to recharge it. 

If Rupert has seen that the men-at-arms in 
the guardroom and/or Egdor have been 
killed or overcome, he and Aubrey will 
have swords drawn and Rupert will be at 
his most imperious. If not, Rupert 'merely' 
demands that the adventurers explain what 
is going on. At first, Rupert is disbelieving 
and extremely supercilious - treating 
them like peasants and insisting that they 
call him sir. Once informed of the facts, he 
declares that the adventurers must be 
imprisoned until the case can be put before 
the Lords Spiritual. Clavados is against 
doing so since the adventurers would 
undoubtedly be executed, but Rupert insists 
that no-one may leave the dungeons. 

If the adventurers try to take Clavados out 
of the dungeon, Rupert sends Aubrey to 
fetch the men-at-arms from the guardroom 
while attempting to prevent the party's 
escape. Rupert will draw his sword if the 
adventurers threaten or attack him. Clav 
ados grapples anyone who draws a weapon 
against Rupert but does not object if 
Rupert is overpowered by weaponless or 
non-lethal combat (UA106-109). 

There is only a 25% chance of the sergeant 
and men-at-arms in the guardroom hearing 
any combat through the thick door, but if 
Aubrey reaches the guardroom, he and the 
guards will rush down the stairs to help 
Rupert. If Rupert is killed or overpowered, 
the others retreat and attempt to raise the 
alarm. In the former case, Clavados will 
then refuse to have anything more to do 
with the party. 


Egdor the Gaoler - Fighter 5 


Appearance: Male. 52 years old. A dis 
gusting, lice-ridden character who has 
not see the light of day for decades. Caked 
in filth, he has only two blackened teeth 
and a face that would make an ore flee in 
fear (Com -1). 

Clothing: Badly stained and rusty, studded 
leather armour and a black floppy hat. 

Personality: matches his looks - he is foul- 
mouthed, uncouth and cruel. He bows 
and scrapes to those in authority (whom 
he hates) and always keeps his face hidden 
from distinguished visitors. 

Abilities: S14, 18, W5, D16, CI5, CH6, 
Com-1. 

AC 4 (studded leather and spiked buckler); 
MV 12"; F5; hp 42; #AT 2 long swordf/1 
spiked buckler; D Id8+2t/ld4; AL LE; 
THACO 161720*. 


Egdor is never parted from his three pet rats 
(Icky, Cuddles and Slossa), and at least one is 
usually sat on his shoulder. He constantly 
asks them their opinions on all manner of 
topics, but although they have an intelligent 
look about them, their only response is to 
snuggle up to him when he speaks to them. 
Egdor will go berserk (+3 to hit and damage) 
if any of his rats are harmed. 

3 rats: AC7; MV 15"; HI) ^ hp 2 each; #AT 1; 
D 1; SA/SD disease; Int Anl; Al. N; Size S; 
THACO 20*; MMII105. 

Characters standing next to Egdor or his rats 
have a 75% chance of catching body lice; 2-5 
turns after becoming infested a character will 
begin to itch. The lice can be removed with a 
Cure Disease spell or an Exterminate cantrip. 


16 RETURN TO EYLEA (Areas E4c-f/Event Evil) 








fugitives from Eylea, the weary adventurers 
know that Nuala has eluded them and has left, 
for the Vipen-Slough - taking with her their 
youthful duplicates. The adventurers have little 
choice but to follow since with her goes any 
chance of regaining their youth! The Vipen- 
Slough is the domain of the hag Vyedma - 
Nuala''s new ally - and it is with, the hag that the 
adventurers must next contend. 


Events in Vipen-Slough 

Evl2. Servants of Nuala 

This event occurs a few hours before 
nightfall, and is the party's first chance to 
experience the powers of duplicates at first 
hand: 


You hear voices ahead, and a group 
of soldiers comes into view. Gathered 
around a campfire in a small clearing 
beside the trail are a dwarf and eight 
men-at-arms, all sporting the livery 
of Eylea. 


The soldiers are actually duplicates, created 
by Nuala, of a patrol from Eylea which she 
encountered on her way into the Vipen- 


Slough with Miles and the duplicated 
party. The original soldiers were taken to 
Vyedma's cave (V5-7) and held there. 

Duplicate Patrol 

Dwarf lieutenant - F7 

Abilities: S 18(25), I 9, W 13, D 14, C16, Ch 9, 
Com 9 

AC 0; MV 12"; F7; hp 57; #AT 3 battle-axe +2f t; 
D ld8+8tt; AL LE; xp 1570; THACO 8f f. 
Equipment (vanishes when the duplicate dies): 

plate mail +3, battle-axe +2. 

8 men-at-arms - FI 

AC 5 (chain mail); MV 12"; FI; hp 8 each; #AT2 
halberd; D ldlO; Int Ave; AL LE; Size M; xp 52; 
THACO 20. 

Equipment (vanishes when the duplicate dies): 
chain mail, halberd. 

Note: Entire patrol regenerates 2 tip/round; +1 
initiative bonus; immune to mind-affecting 
spells. 

The duplicated patrol has orders from 
Nuala to prevent anyone from entering the 
Vipen-Slough. If given the opportunity, 
the dwarf lieutenant politely insists "in the 
name of the Lords of Eylea" that the party 
turns back. If the adventurers refuse or take 
aggressive action, he and his men fight 


back. The duplicates all fight to the death 
and, as each is killed, it vanishes in a 
brilliant flash of light. During the fight, 
the adventurers may notice the duplicates' 
speed, agility and regenerative power. 


Evl3. Ladies of the Lake 

The meeting with the ladies of the lake - 
the Galliana sirines - takes place not long 
before nightfall, soon after the parly's 
encounter with the duplicated patrol 
(Evl2). If dealt with peacefully, they can 
provide refuge, advice and information to 
the party. 

The marsh opens out into a still pool, 
alongside which the trail runs. The ad 
venturers will notice that the sweet air here 
contrasts markedly with the foetid atmos 
phere elsewhere, and the water of the lake is 
clean and pure. A large, grey heron sits on a 
branch of a tree by the path which 
overhangs the lake. 

The bird is actually a polymorphed sirine, 
who is checking on the party's intentions. 
Any threat from the party causes her to dive 
beneath the surface of the lake, otherwise, 
when the adventurers draw near, she reverts 
to her true form (a beautiful, unclothed 


BACK TO THE FENS (Events Ev 12-13) 17 










woman) and greets them: "Good-day vener 
able ones, why do you wander so far from 
your hearths?" 

The sirine is concerned for the welfare of 
the "venerable ones" and, if the adventurers 
are reasonably civil, she offers to help them 
along to the lodge of her sisters where they 
can spend the night "snug and warm and 
safe from the Kli-Qwerg" (see below). 


Lodge of the Galliana Sirines 

The lodge is located on the bank of a small 
lake, half-a-mile from the pool. As they 
follow the sirine along the narrow, tortuous 
path to the lodge, she shows her concern for 
the adventurers' old age by pointing out 
places where the path is tricky, helping 
them over small obstacles, and so on. 

The lodge is a wooden longhouse (60 feet 
long and 20 feet wide) completely camou 
flaged by tangled vegetation. It has two 
well-concealed entrances; a door leading 
from the path and a tunnel which opens 
out below the surface of the lake. Inside, the 
air is warm and humid, and light comes 
from two wicker cages of fire-flies. 

In the lodge are seven more sirines. They 
welcome the "venerable ones", helping 
them to sit down and offering food (fish 
stew), drink (ale) and comfortable places to 
sleep. Throughout, their care and concern 
will be almost overwhelming. The sirines 
will not overburden their aged guests with 
conversation, but, if asked, give the 
following information and advice: 

- The sirines witnessed the duplication of 
the patrol from Eylea and the taking 
away of the "wizened" captives towards 
Vyedma's isle. They can describe what 
happened, but do not understand it. 

- Vyedma's "clan" (a mob of hideous 
humanoids and beasts) lives on an island 
deep in the Vipen-Slough - the sirines 
can describe the exact route. 


Kli-Qwerg 

This encounter with the "Kli-Qwerg" only 
takes place if the party does not spend the 
night with the Galliana, since the creature, 

18 BACK TO THE FENS (Event Ev 14/Areas VI 


a neo-otyugh, is nocturnal. During the 
hours of darkness, the Kli-Qwerg prowls 
the swamp in search of prey, wading 
silently through the murky pools with only 
its eye-stalk above the surface, and emerg 
ing only to attack. 


Galliana sirines: AC 3; MV 127/24"; 

HD 6 each; hp 30 each; #AT 1; D ld6 (short 

sword or javelin); MR 25%; Int High; 

AL NG; Size M; THACO 13; MMII109. 

Note: Song charms hostile creatures within 
3" range; ran use polymorph self, fog 
cloud and improved invisibility once 
per day each at will (one per round); 
touch can cause idiocy (save vs. Poison 
or dispel magic negates); save as MU 11 
(+2 vs. poison). 

Kli-Qwerg (neo-otyugh): AC 0; MV 6"; 

HD 12; hp 78; #AT 3; D 2d6/2d6/ld3; 

Int Very; AL N; Size L; xp 3948; THACO 9; 

MM73. 

Note: Bite inflicts typhus (disease - 90%); 
never surprised. 


Vipen-Isle 

Vipen-Isle is, perhaps, the most dismal 
part of the Ffenargh. Once it was the site of 
a small manor and its estates, but the noble 
family which ruled here has died out and 
the Lords of Eylea have lost any control 
over the area. Now, the major power on the 
island is Vyedma, an annis (see pl9), who 
lives with her "clan" in a homestead on the 
western side of the island. 


Evl4. The Herdsman 

This event occurs at any time while the 
party is on Vipen-Isle: 


The trees and bushes thin out, giving 
way to a bleak clearing where a herd 
of bulky, bloated cattle stomps and 
snorts its way through the clinging 
mist. A feeble gust of wind wafts an 
evil stench to your nostrils and thins 
the mist for a few moments, revealing 
a robed figure at the rear of the herd. 


The cattle are stench kine, and the herds 
man a scarecrow (one of Vyedma's ser 
vants). Despite the scarecrow's efforts to 
move them along in a herd, the ill- 
tempered cattle are more interested in 
grazing than moving and have spaced 
themselves out across the clearing. Neither 
the kine nor the scarecrow have noticed the 
adventurers, nor would they have any 
particular interest in them. If left alone, the 
herd would eventually continue on its way, 
but if the cattle are disturbed (e.g. by the 

-3) 


party passing through their midst) the 
bulls will attack. The scarecrow will join 
the fight if any of its charges are harmed, 
but the cows only fight in self-defence. 

Herdsman (scarecrow): AC 6; MV 6"; HD 5; 

hp 36; #AT 1; D ld6 + special; Int Non; AL NE; 
Size M; xp 345; THACO 15; FF77. 

Note: Gaze or touch charms (save vs. Spells 
negates), causing victims to stand, fascinated, 
rooted to the spot. 

37 stench kine (6 bulls & 31 cows): AC 2; 

MV 15"; HD 3+3; hp 24 (bull) or 18 (cow) each; 
#AT 1 ; D ld4+4 (bull) or 2d4 (cow); AL N; Size 
L; xp 246 or 222; THACO 13 (bull) or 16 (cow); 
MMII115. 

Note:bulls' charge (requires move of 1"+) causes 
double damage, plus trample for 2d6; stench 
acts on nearby creatures as stinking cloud, 
check every 3 rounds (save vs. Poison neg 
ates); immune to cold, fire, poison and gas. 

The Hag's Homestead 

The annis, Vyedma, and the motley 
collection of creatures which she mockingly 
refers to as her "clan" (see Vyedma's Clan - 
pl9), live on this group of islets (see Map 
V). The causeways which link the islets and 
the various buildings occupied by the 
"clan" are crudely but solidly built of 
wood, and are larger than normal to suit 
the inhabitants. 


VI. Cattle Pen 

Vyedma's cattle (stench kine) are kept here, 
and the stench of them pervades the islet. 
Most of the herd is out with the scarecrow 
herdsman (see Evl4 - above), but agroup of 
28 stench cows and 7 stench calves are in the 
pen. They take no notice of the party unless 
the calves are threatened, in which case the 
cows fight to defend them. 


V2. Herdsman's Hut 

The scarecrow-herdsman's hut is the only 
building in the homestead built to normal 
scale. Inside are several buckets of stench 
kow milk (thick, pale green, and lumpy 
with a sulphurous smell). Drinking any of 
this will cause immediate vomiting and 
dizzyness (-3 points of dexterity for 3d6 
turns - no saving throw). 


V3. Ogres' Hut 

This 2-roomed structure houses 19 ogres. 
Although ordered to guard the homestead, 
they keep a very lax watch and will only 
notice the adventurers once they reach the 
hut or if they make their approach obvious 
(e.g. by attacking the stench cows). If 
attacked, the ogres call out to alert the 
verbeeg (see V4). Hidden under the rubbish 
and filth in the hut is an old leather bag 
containing two potions of extra-healing, 








- 5 ^ 


notice a "contract" between Nuala and 
Vyedma written, using their finger-tips, in 
blood on the wall. The two parts of the 
contract are written in different languages: 

- (in annis) "inblood i swear to give the aid of 
my allies to my sister nuala thus that she may 
be restored to her rightful place as mistress of 
eylea -vyedma - my mark" 

- (in common) "By this Sign and by my 
gifts, I pledge to my sister, Vyedma, that as 
mistress ofEylea I shall give unto her the 
estates of Vipen and Myrk. Nuala. " 


three gems (value 200gp each), 500gp, 
2000ep, 3500sp, and 5230cp. 

Main Islet 

The largest islet of the homestead is home 
to 8 verbeeg (V4), Vyedma, and her 
nightmare steed (V5-V7). Once they are 
aware that the homestead is under attack, 
Vyedma and the other inhabitants will get 
together to confront the invaders. To begin 
with, Vyedma will want to avoid being 
picked out as a target. She will fight on 
foot, aided by the ogres (if any survive), the 
nightmare and verbeeg, having used her 
change self ability to look like a verbeeg. 
Unarmoured characters will be attacked as 
a preference. 

If she or her steed are seriously threatened, 
Vyedma will decide that it is time to make a 
getaway on the nightmare. To help cover 
her escape she will use a fog cloud (or two) 
and, in an attempt to gain some surprise by 
shocking the opposition, may even change 
self again, altering her form directly from 
that of a verbeeg to a type III demon! 

If Vyedma manages to escape from the 
homestead, she seeks out Gheerha, the 
boggart, to arrange her revenge (see Evl5). 


V4. Ruined Tower 

The verbeeg live in a ruined tower standing 
on a rocky outcrop below Vyedma's cave. 
Only two floors of the tower remain. The 
lower room serves as a kitchen and general 
living area while the floor of the upper 
room (reached by a ladder) is strewn with 
straw on which the giants sleep. A sling of 
seeking hangs on the wall of the upper 
room and, in a concealed compartment 
beneath the kitchen hearth, is a locked iron 
box with a poison needle in the lock (save 
vs. Poison or die). Inside are lOOOgp, 
2850ep, and 6750cp. 


V5. Nightmare's Stable 

A foul chamber with a sulphurous reek. 


V6. Cold-Store 

When the duplicated patrol was killed by 
the party (see Evl2), the aged, captive 
lieutenant and men-at-arms reverted to 
their former state. Realising what had 
happened, and having no further use for 
them, Vyedma had them killed and hung 
up in this clammy chamber which serves as 
her food-store. Also here is the "maturing" 
(maggot-ridden) carcass of a stench-kow. 


V7. Vyedma's Chamber 

Vyedma's chamber is as loathsome as 
herself, both in appearance and odour. On 
entering, the adventurers will not fail to 


Nuala, the duplicates and their new allies 
have flown back to Eylea to capture the 
palace (see Images of Death). 

There is a large chest (8 feet long and 6 feet 
high) against one wall. Its cluttered con 
tents include ragged clothes, broken, 
furniture, a stench kow cheese and the 
dried corpse of a lizard-man, plus: 

- The gear taken from the lieutenant and 
men-at-arms (see above): i.e. a suit of 
dwarf- sized plate mail +3, a battle-axe +2, 
eight suits of chain mail armour, and 
eight halberds. 

- The gifts given by Nuala to buy the 
services of Vyedma's allies; i.e. 14 pinches 
of dust of tracelessness in a bejewelled, 
silk purse (value 500gp), 4 ounces of 

sovereign glue, 12 ounces of ultimate 
solution, a vial of oil of slipperiness, and 
eight potions of longevity. 

- A large chest containing 3010gp and 
4325ep. 


Evl5. Vyedma's Revenge 

If Vyedma escapes the party's attack on her 
homestead, she vows revenge. To fulfill her 
aim, she enlists the help of Gheerha, a 
boggart, who is indebted to her. First, she 
uses the boggart as a scout to find the party, 
and then as a hidden tracker to follow them 
while she and the nightmare remain at a 
safe distance. Vyedma is in no great hurry 
and, so long as the party remains in the 
Vipen-Slough, is content to wait for a good 
opportunity to attack. During this time, 
the adventurers may gain fleeting glimpses, 
of the boggart. 

The attack opens with an attempt by 
Gheerha to cause confusion, then Vyedma, 
mounted on the nightmare, charges the 
party. Only Vyedma will fight to the death. 
Gheerha flees if wounded (i.e. suffers more 
than 10 points of damage), and both it and 
the nightmare flee if Vyedma is overcome. 


Vyedma's "Clan" & Gheerha 


Vyedma (annis): AC 0; MV 15"; HD 7+12; 

hp 58; #AT 3; D ld8+8/ld8+8/2d4+l; Int 

High; AL CE; Size L; xp 1880; THACO 12; 

MMII9. 

Note: If all 3 attacks hit one opponent, the 
annis can grapple (automatic hits in each 
succeeding round); ran cast fog cloud and 
change self (as if 8th level, 1 per round, 2x 
each per day); edged weapons do -1 
damage, blunt weapons do +1. 

Personal treasure: jewelled necklace (value 
15,000gp), gold ring (value lOOOgp), and a 
Murly nd' s spoon 

Nightmare: AC -4; MV 15736"; HD 6+6; 

hp 54; #AT 3; D 2d4/2d4+2/2d4+2; Int High; 

AL NE; Size L; xp 1032; THACO 13; MM74. 

Note: Can fly and become ethereal: breathe 
out a smoking cloud during combat 
(opponents must save vs. Breath or attack 
at -2 to hit and damage). 

Verbeeg: AC; 4; MV 18"; HD 5+5; hp 38 each; 

# AT2 spear; D 1 d6+5/1 d6+5 ;IntAve; ALNE; 

Size L; xp 503 each; THACO 11; MMII69. 

Personal treasure: 30gp and 4ep each. 


Ogres: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4+1; hp 20; #AT 1; 

D ldlO; Int low; AL CE; Size L; xp 110 each; 

THACO 15; MM75. 

Personal Treasure: 38gp each. 

Stenchkine: AC2;MV 15";HD3+3;hp 17 

(cow) or 8 (calf) each; #AT 1; D 2d4 (cow); 

AL N; Size L; xp 280 each; THACO 16 (cow); 

MMII115. 

Note: Stench affects nearby creatures as 
stinking cloud, check every 3 rounds (save 
vs. Poison negates); immune to cold, fire, 
poison and gas. 

Gheerha (boggart): AC -6; MV 18"; HD 6; 

hp 40; #AT 1; D 2d6; Int Very; AL CE; Size S; 

xp 865; THACO 13; MMII19. 

Note: Changes form between small demi- 
human, humanoid and will-o-wisp; can 
become invisible (12 rounds); immune to 
all spells except magic missile, maze and 
protection from evil; attacks by electric 
shock (range 10'); can cause confusion 
(ld6+6 rounds) within 30' radius by 
making a noise for 2 rounds even when 
invisible (save vs. Spells negates). 


BACK TO THE FENS (Areas V4-7/event Evl5) 19 











Eylea has fallen! 

The Lords Spiritual are dead', along with many 
other defenders of the palace. Those who could 
not flee now serve Nuala the least powerful of 
them kept in thrall by fear, and the others either 
made into juju zombies by her life-bane draining 
or imprisoned and duplicated. Of those who 
died, many now serve her as undead. 

Of Eylea 1 's elite, only Kilanas remains at liberty. 
When alt was clearly lost, he chose to hide, 
taking with him a relic from the treasury - the 
Pewter Chalice of Eylea. The other rulers have 
been replaced by Nuala's followers: the 
duplicates of the adventurers, a greenhag, yeth 
hounds, ogres, and other fell beasts... not least 
amongst them the black dragons Slufgor and 
Garfolg, 

Nuala is unchallenged mistress of Eylea... or 
will be, unless the adventurers can defeat her 
and, in so doing, regain their lost youth. 

A Foretaste of Evil 

The following events occur in the order 
given as the adventurers head towards 
Eylea from the Vipen-Slough. Unless 
otherwise stated, all monster statistics 
appear on page 23, and details of NPCs on 
PSII-VI. 


Evl6. Dragon on the Wing 

A day's journey from Eylea, the silence of 
the fen is broken by a distant screech up 
ahead accompanied by flocks of startled 
water fowl taking to the wing. All goes 
quiet for a few minutes, then a black shape 
is seen through the mist flying over the fen 
towards Eylea. This is the black dragon 
Slufgor returning to Eylea after tracking 
down some men-at-arms fleeing from the 
palace. 

Four hours later the adventurers find 13 
corpses - a sergeant and five men-at-arms 
lie scorched and corroded by Slufgor's acid 
breath weapon, and seven other men-at- 
arms have been savaged to death by her 
claws and teeth. Scattered around the scene 
of carnage are the men-at-arms' broken 
halberds and crossbows. 

If they search the site of the battle, the 
adventurers find a bloody trail leading to a 
clump of reeds where Corek, the only 
surviving man-at-arms, is hiding. 

Corek has been raked by a claw (wounded 
to 3hp) and he is very scared. He refuses to 
come out of hiding until convinced that the 
dragon is gone, and even then constantly 
watches the sky for her return. On no 
account will he return to Eylea. 


Corek responds to direct questions, but 
otherwise says nothing. He can provide the 
following information: 

- Eylea has been captured and the Lords 
Spiritual slain by a middle-aged sorceress 
and the "jury that freed Miles". 

- Many folk fled from Eylea, including 
himself and two squads of men-at-arms. 

- The peasants scattered, but the soldiers 
stayed together and fled into the fen. 
Some of them perished, killed by giant 
leeches, then the dragon attacked... 


Evl7. The Mist Arises 

Shortly before the adventurers arrive at Lea 
Island, a thick, dank fog arises, reducing 
visibility to 10-30 yards. The fog lasts for 
three days before gradually dispersing. 


Evl8. Hunters in the Mist 

Unaware that Kilanas is hiding at Eylea 
(see p22), Nuala has sent out hunting 
parties to search for him. One consists of 3 
yeth hounds, and a squad of 12 mounted 
juju zombies led by duplicates of Rupert 
and Aubrey (also mounted). If Rupert was 
killed earlier, the riders will be led by 
Aubrey or a duplicated lieutenant. 


20 IMAGES OF DEATH (Events Evl6-18) 




































The adventurers encounter this hunting 
party soon after they arrive at Lea Island. 
They hear the approaching baying of the 
hounds before, 4 rounds later, the hounds 
burst into view and attack from above. The 
cavalrymen arrive 2d4+4 rounds later and 
charge with lances. 

WELCOME TO EYLEA 

The exact course of the assault by the party 
on Eylea depends very much on the actions 
of the PCs and on the numbers and powers 
of the PC duplicates. The attack may range 
from a stealthy commando raid, to a mass 
battle in the courtyard. Either way, as the 
Player Character duplicates are destroyed, 
the PCs regain their former youth. 

If the adventurers avoid raising the alarm, 
they will be able to deal with defenders a 
group at a time. Their locations are given 
on pages 21-22, and this is where they are 
likely to be encountered unless the alarm 
has been raised (see below). 

While reading through this section make 
notes on Map E to show the locations of the 
monsters, duplicates, prisoners and so on. 
You should also be prepared to make 
adjustments as the attack develops. 


General Situation 

When the party arrives, Nuala is away at 
the island of Holm with the black dragon 
Garfolg, terrorising the peasantry and 
searching for Kilanas. She has left Eylea in 
the hands of the greenhag Vlakvog, the PC 
duplicates, and her other followers. Nuala's 
return (see p22) takes place after the dupli 
cates have been defeated or after 2 days have 
passed (whichever is sooner). 

The southern part of Eylea (El-11) is 
occupied by those commoners and men-at- 
arms who did not manage to flee and who 
are kept here by fear of Nuala's undead 
guards (see El). The northern part (E2,12 & 
15-22) has been taken over by Nuala and 
her followers. 

Before the party arrives, you should divide 
the PC duplicates between the following 
locations where they will take up residence: 
Clavados' lodgings (E2); Hospitium (E12); 
Exalted Halls - E. & W. wings (E15); 
Magnificium (E16); and Distinguished 
Halls - various suites (E22). 


The PC Duplicates 

Since the abilities and numbers of the 
player characters' duplicates depends on 
your player's characters, it is only possible 
to provide guidelines as to how they should 
be used: 



- Make sure you have a clear record/ 
summary of the duplicates' abilities and 
powers. 

- Since killing their victims kills them 
also, the duplicates would prefer to dupe 
the adventurers and capture them. If this 
fails, however, they fight in earnest out 
of loyalty to Nuala - knowing them 
selves to be expendable. 

- The duplicates are just as intelligent as 
the originals, and use their abilities to 
the full - including any special "tricks" 
or tactics which the PCs use. 

- Be careful; fully equipped PC duplicates 
are more dangerous than their aged 
originals! 


Approaching Eylea 


Servants: Each PC duplicate has a juju 
zombie servant/bodyguard with him or her 
at all times. 


The Alarm 


As the adventurers approach Eylea through 
the mist, they hear eerie organ music 
drifting out from the Sacred Aisle (E17). If 
the raid takes place at night, they are joined 
by Zelor the Grim (see Events, p22). 


Once the defenders are aware of the party, 
the first to react to the alarm are the groups 
of undead who move towards the area 
where the alarm was raised, ringing their 
bells as they do so. The nearest PC 
duplicate also goes to investigate. Mean 
while, the other defenders are rousing. 
While the duplicated lieutenants are calling 
out the guard, the remaining PC duplicates 
hurry to join up with the other defenders - 
Vlakvog, ogres (2 groups), clerics/flamens, 
and Slufgor. You should assign one or two 
(possibly three with a very large party) PC 
duplicates to each of the five groups. The 
table below shows the time required for 
each group to respond to the alarm. 


Rnd 

Event 

Ref. 

0 

1 

Alarm Raised 

Undead patrols alerted 

El 

2 

3 

1st duplicate investigates 
Vlakvog ready for action 

E20 

4 

Commoners panic 

The Mob 

5 

Ogres ready for action 

E19 & 21 

7 

Clerics/flamens ready 

E22 

8 

Guard starts to emerge 

E3 

9 

Slufgor ready for action 

E17 


Once each group is ready, it joins in the 
search for the intruders. This is not easy, 
since the dense mist restricts vision to 10-30 
yards. The courtyards are likely to be very 
confused areas as "The Mob" panics and 
breaks, only to be attacked by the mindless 
undead and possibly the ogres. After taking 
any casualties, the Guard either flees Eylea 
or retreats to barracks. The bad tempered 
Slufgor cares little whom she kills in her 
search for the party and is likely to attack 
any who get in her way. Throughout this 
confusion the PC duplicates seek an 
opportunity to capture or defeat the adven 
turers. The defenders have orders not to 
leave Eylea, and cannot be lured out. 


Southern Area (El-11) 

The Mob: Life for the 90 remaining 
commoners goes on much as normal, but 
only the fear of the undead patrols keeps 
them under control. If the alarm is raised, 
or at the first sign of serious trouble, the 
commoners panic and flee en masse to 
wards one of the gates, ignoring any minor 
losses but recoiling from heavy attacks only 
to try another exit. Even after the majority 
have fled, however, a few stragglers remain 
(see Events, p22). 

El. Silent Vigil: Each of Eylea's three gates 
is guarded by 6 skeletons and 6 zombies. 
Another five similar squads patrol the 
courtyards and gardens. These have orders 
to let no-one in or out and to put down 
"troublemakers". They are unlikely to 
hinder the party significantly, but will 
raise the alarm in case of attack (each group 
has a bell for this purpose). These undead 
were created by Nuala from the corpses of 
men-at-arms, Praefects, and commoners 
killed during her attack. 

E3. Eylea's Guards: The surviving 78 men- 
at-arms and 9 sergeants are confined to the 
barracks (E3). They live in fear of the 3 
duplicated lieutenants. Two of the lieu 
tenants are in the barracks (E3) and the 
other is in the Distinguished Halls (E22). If 
the alarm is raised, the guards assemble in 
the courtyard (see Eylea's Defence - PSV). 
Their morale is very low and they flee (or 
take cover) if any of them is killed. They 
will not fight for the adventurers. 

E4. Undead Gaolers: There are 12 skeletons 

in the guardroom above the dungeon 
which attack anyone entering the room. 
Incarcerated in the cells are 20 1st level 
clerics and eight 2nd level clerics. These are 
too scared to help the party and can provide 
no useful information. 


IMAGES OF DEATH (Welcome to Eylea: areas El-4) 21 






Northern Area (E15-22) 

E16. Nuala's New Home: Nuala has moved 
into the Magnificium and evidence of her 
occupation can be found here (dresses, 
cosmetics, spell components and so on). 

E17. Black Dragons: Slufgor and Garfolg 
smashed their way through the roof of the 
Sacred Aisle and now use it as a lair. 
Slufgor spends her time lounging here, 
dreamily listening to loud music played by 
a terrified flamen (one of the praefects - see 
PSII) on the organ. If the adventurers 
disturb her here, Slufgor will attack wildly 
with her acid breath (taking care not to 
damage the organ, however!). If the alarm 
has been raised, Slufgor roams the palace 
in a rage, and the PC duplicate(s) accom 
panying her barely manage to prevent her 
attacking the other defenders. 


A guardian daemon released by Kilanas 
roams the central and eastern parts of the 
treasury and attacks anyone it encounters. 
The daemon is in the form of a large red 
toad. It has the same statistics as the one on 
page 7. Gardict's charred corpse lies in the 
central chamber (see Kilanas, below). 

E19 & 21. Ogres: Two groups, each of 13 
ogres have moved into these buildings. 
They have ripped up many of the books 
and parchments to use as bedding. Until 
ordered into action by the PC duplicate(s) 
(whom they fear), the ogres remain in their 
lairs and only fight in self-defence. In any 
fight, the ogres attempt to overcome the 
opposition with simple brute force. Hidden 
under a pile of tools in E19 is the ogre's 
treasure of 485gp and a gem (lOOgp). 

E20. Vlakvog the Greenhag: Living in this 
grand hall appeals to Vlakvog's sense of 
her own importance, and so she has set up 
home here in her own, inimitable, dis 
gusting manner. Either alone, or with the 
PC duplicate(s), Vlakvog uses her powers 
of illusion and mimicry to create a diversion 
and so increase the chance of gaining 
surprise when attacking. She concentrates 
her weakness power on armoured char 
acters. Her treasure, consisting of 739gp, 
50pp, 3 gems (value lOOOgpeach), a potion 
of poison and an amulet of inescapable 
location, is hidden under the Lord High 
Spirituals' chair. 


The dragons' treasure consists of a jet 
statuette of a black dragon on a gem 
encrusted base (value 25,000gp), 10x500gp 
gems, lOOx 100 gp gems, and 50x50gp gems, 
one of which is a gem of insight. A 
platinum casket (value 5000gp) hidden 
under one of the pews is protected by a trap 
which releases a confusion spell at the 12th 
level of magic use. Inside are potions of 
extra healing, fire breath, gaseous form, 
storm giant strength, and speed. Under 
neath these are a clerical scroll with 
commune, heal, speak with dead, hold 
person and negative plane protection and 
an illusionist scroll of alter self, chromatic 
orb, hypnotic pattern, paralysation, 
shadow magic and veil. 

E18. Prisoners: In the north-western room 
of the treasury, 3 slime golems keep 
Rupert, Aubrey, the three lieutenants, 
Barnez, Abillard, and Corphalt prisoner. 

These are aged, unless their duplicates are 
destroyed. With them are 5 clerics of levels 
3-5. The prisoners are kept constantly 
paralysed and have been stripped of 
armour and weapons. The golems attack 
anyone entering the room, but do not leave 
the treasury. Once their paralysis has worn 
off the prisoners are eager to help liberate 
Eylea. Their equipment is heaped in a 
nearby room. 


E22. Clerics and Flamens: Stationed here 
are the duplicates of Barnez (C6), Corphalt 
(C6) and Abillard (FI), and 5 juju zombies 
created from flamens. Of the spells avail 
able to the duplicate clerics (see PSIV), only 
hold person and light can be used offens 
ively. Even so, the duplicates and zombies 
fight fearlessly, whether or not accom 
panied by the PC duplicates 

Events 

The following events occur in any order 
during the party's raid on Eylea: 

Zelor the Grim 

Zelor (in the form of a large, black cat) 
appears to the adventurers if they approach 
Eylea at night. Zelor attempts to make 
friends with the adventurers, but can only 
purr or hiss. Zelor knows where Kilanas is 
hiding (E5h) and attempts to lead the party 
there. In addition to fighting alongside the 
party, Zelor's detect evil ability and 
protection from evil 10' radius make him a 
valuable addition to the party's strength. 

Kilanas 

Kilanas is hiding in the stonemason's 
workshop (E5h). If the party is not led to 
him by Zelor, he can be encountered at 


night sneaking around Eylea. He can 
inform the adventurers about Nuala's 
absence (see Nuala - below). Kilanas has 
prayed for spells suitable to the situation 
(e.g. cures, invisibility to undead, pro 
tection from evil, dispel magic). 

During the attack on Eylea, Kilanas and 
Gardict (the Arch-Pontefact - see PSII) fled 
to the treasury (E18) to rescue the sacred 
Pewter Chalice of Eylea. In so doing, they 
released the guardian daemon. Kilanas 
escaped, but Gardict was killed. Kilanas 
also has Siranush's rod of flailing and her 
shield +2 (giving him AC -2). 

Three times per day, Kilanas can use the 
chalice to transform a vial of holy water 
into a healing potion by uttering the 
correct prayers (3 rounds). Two of the 
potions (Kilanas' choice) have the effect of 
a cure critical wounds spell and the third 
that of a heal spell. Kilanas currently has 
three vials of holy water (more are stored in 
a room off the Sacred Aisle). Only Kilanas, 
as the senior cleric of Eylea, can use the 
chalice. 


Commoners 

The few commoners who remain after the 
mob has fled (p21) stay out of sight as much 
as possible. They may be used as "fleeting 
shadows" to keep the adventurers on their 
toes, or to inform (or misinform) them. 


Vlakvog 

At night, Vlakvog sneaks around Eylea 
looking for loot and for lone victims to slay 
(the party may hear screams in the night). 
She uses her change self ability to appear as 
an innocuous commoner. In this disguise, 
she may be used to lure the adventurers into 
an ambush of duplicates or ogres, to 
confuse them with misinformation, or 
even to attack them if they are unwary. 
Should her ruse be discovered, Vlakvog 
turns invisible and goes for aid. 

Nuala's Return 

Nuala returns a day or two after the 
duplicates have been defeated, but not 
before the adventurers have had time to 
memorise spells and heal wounds. Kilanas 
(or any other member of Eylea's elite) can 
warn the party that Nuala will return soon 
and can describe her retinue so that a 
suitable "welcome" can be planned. In any 
fight, the party can count on the help of the 
cavaliers and any clerics of level 5 or 
greater. The cavaliers object strongly to 
any idea of trickery, however. 

Nuala is riding a nightmare and has with 
her Garfolg (the black dragon), Jarzizt (her 
imp familiar), 3 yeth hounds, and 3 juju 
zombies (mounted on the hounds). Her 


22 IMAGES OF DEATH (Areas E16-22/Events/Nuala's Return) 







intention is to land in the courtyard by the 
Grandiose Hall and then proceed to the 
Magnificium to rest. As she approaches 
Eylea, Nuala is unaware that the adven 
turers have returned and may be fooled if, 
for example, they pretend to be their own 
duplicates. Jartzizt, who can detect good, 
however, would not be fooled for long. 

At the first sign of danger, Nuala casts a 
dimension door spell to shift her to 
somewhere (e.g. a room) overlooking the 
scene and then casts a projected image back 
to where she just left. Jarzizt, invisible , 
joins Nuala in hiding. While her retinue 
fight with the adventurers (using their 
abilities to attack from the air and from a 
distance, to the full), Nuala casts whatever 
spells are appropriate through the pro 
jected image - ageing rapidly as she does 
so. As soon as possible, she summons 5-8 
shadows to join the fray, using her 
lanthorn (see PSVI). 

Nuala fights to the bitter end if the 
adventurers track her down (the imp fights 
for a while but flees if close to death). As she 
dies, Nuala's ageing accelerates horribly. 
Her body shrivels until the parchment-like 
skin stretches taut across her creaking 
bones, then cracks and crumbles to dust. As 
her bones themselves crumble, a thin 
plume of noxious vapour drifts upwards 
and disperses, while a thin wail drifts 
through the air and is gone....only her 
equipment remains. 

Rughlor 

Unless the adventurers destroyed him 
earlier (see Ev4), Rughlor arrives at Eylea 
shortly after Nuala. He heads directly for 
her, attacking anyone who attempts to stop 
him. Rughlor can be used to lead the party 
to Nuala if she has eluded them or to 
distract her during the battle, since Nuala 
will not hesitate to attack Rughlor (e.g. 
with lightning bolt, burning hands and/or 
Melf's minute meteors spells). Should the 
party (or Rughlor) succeed in slaying 
Nuala, he removes his helmet (exposing 
his horrid face), thanks the adventurers for 
their aid, and then crumbles to dust, 
leaving behind only his armour and 
weapons. 

Nuala's Treasure 

Apart from the treasures carried on her 
person (see PSVI), Nuala has a small chest 
for recalling her Leomund's Secret Chest 
(value 5500gp) from the ethereal plane. A 
magic user possessing it can, by speaking 
the command word "sturg", return the 
chest to the Prime Material Plane (contents 
detailed on PSVI). If the party has no other 
means (e.g. legend lore spell) of discovering 
the word, the grateful Kilanas suggests a 
solution. If the adventurers overcome the 
guardian daemon of the "All-wise Owl" in 
the treasury (E18, see p7) and bring it to 



him, it will give Kilanas (and only him) the 
answer to a single question (e.g. the 
command word), before disintegrating. 

If the chest is returned by a magic user other 
than Nuala, a nightmare will appear 1 turn 
after the chest and attack. The nightmare 
returns to the ethereal plane after being 
reduced to fewer than 14 hit points. 

Apart from that rescued by Kilanas, the 
magical equipment of the Lords Spiritual 
was destroyed in Nuala's taking of Eylea. 


Calm After the Storm 

After Nuala's reign of terror, the culture 
and administration of the Ffenargh are in 
ruins. Kilanas (if he survives) takes on the 
mantle of High Lord Spiritual. He resolves 
not only to restore Eylea, but also to 
promote a new vitality and prosperity 
throughout the Ffenargh. As a symbol of 
the "re-birth" of Eylea, Kilanas holds a 
ceremony of thanksgiving in the Sacred 


Aisle, followed by a least in the Grandiose 
Hall. At these events, the adventurers are 
hailed as "Saviours and Benefactors of the 
Ffenargh", and "Ever-welcome guests at 
Eylea's Palace". Before the adventurers 
depart and the long, slow process of 
rebuilding can begin, Kilanas hesitantly 
hints that donations from the treasures 
they have won would be of great help. The 
adventurers will still gain experience points 
from any money donated. 


Monsters at Eylea 

The NPC Duplicates: have an increase in movement rate of 3", an extra attack per round, and 
regenerate 2 hit points per round (see p2'l). Their xp values are: Rupert 4846, Aubrey 368, Abillard 
87, Corphalt 661, Barnez 717. Otherwise their statistics are unchanged from those on PS1I-VI. 


Juju zombie: AC 6; MV 9"; HD 3+12; hp 21; 

#AT 1; D ld6 (short bow) or 3d4 (hands); Int 

Low; AL N(E); Size M; xp 476; THACO 13; 

MMII131. 

Note: Need +1 weapons to hit; half damage 
from all but cleaving weapons (axe, broad-, 
bastard- or 2-handed sword etc.); unaffected 
by cold or electricity, or by magic missile, 
sleep, hold, charm or illusion spells; fire 
has half effect; turn as spectre; climb like 
level 6 thief. 

Nightmare: AC -4; MV 15736"; HD 6+6; 

hp 48; #AT 3; D 2d4/2d4+2/2d4+2; hit High; 

AL NE; Size L; xp 984; THACO 13; MM74. 

Note; Can fly and become ethereal; breathe 
out smoking cloud during combat (save vs. 
Breath or attack at -2 to hit and damage). 

Ogre: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4 + 1; hp 20; #AT 1; 

D ldlO; Int low; AL CE; Size L; xp 190; 

THACO 15; MM75. 

Skeleton: AC 7; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 5; #AT 1; 

D ld6; Int Non; AL N; Size M; xp 19; 

THACO 19; MM89. 

Note: take half damage from edged weapons, 

Slime golem: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 10; hp 45; 

#1AT 2; D 2d4/2d4+paralysis; SA/SDSee 

below; Int Low; AL N; Size M; xp 2580; 

THACO 10; New Monster (p24). 

Note: Touch paralyses (save vs. paralysis to 
negate); need magical weapons to hit; 


immune to cold, heat and fire, and to sleep, 
charm and hold spells; tan squeeze through 
narrow gaps. 

Slufgor and Garfolg (old black dragons): 

ACS; MV 12724"; HD 8; hp 48 each; #AT 3; 

D 1-4/1-4/3-18; Int Ave; AL CE; Size L (30' 

long); xp 1405; THACO 12; MM31. 

Note: Acid breath (l/2"x6"stream); both talk, 
but neither can use spells. 

Vlakvog (greenhag): AC -2; MV 127/12"; 

HD 9; hp52;#AT2; D ld2+6/ld2+6;MR35%; 

Int Very; AL NE; Size M; xp 2224; THACO 12; 

MMII71. 

Note: Can use audible glamer, dancing lights, 
invisibility, pass without trace, changeself, 
speak with monsters, water breathing and 

weakness (as if 9th level, 1 per round); can 
imitate voices and animal sounds; surprise 
5 in 6. 

Yeth hound: AC; 0; MV 15727"; HD 3+3; 

hp 18; #AT 1; D 2d4; MR 10%; Int low; 

ALNE; SizeL; xp317; THACO 16; MMII129. 

Note: Can fly; magical weapons score damage 
equal to "plus", silver score I point, others 
score no damage; baying can be heard 1 
mile away; creatures within 9" of baying 
must save vs. Spells or flee in panic. 

Zombie: AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 9; 

#AT 1; D ld8; Int Non; AL N; Size M; xp 38; 

THACO 16; MM 103. 


IMAGES OF DEATH (Calm After the Storm/Monsters at Eylea ) 23 












Golem, Slime 

FREQUENCY: Very rare 

NO. APPEARING: 2-8 
ARMOUR CLASS: 5 
MOVE: 9" 

HIT DICE: 10 
TREASURE TYPE: Nil 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2 
DAMAGE: 2d4/2d4 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Paralysis 
SPECIAL DEFENCES: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
INTELLIGENCE: Low 

ALIGNMENT: N 
SIZE: M 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Attack/Defence Modes: Nil 
LEVEL/X.P. VALUE: 1950 + 14/hp 

These flaccid, squat, man-sized creatures 
arecreatedfromcrystalooze(MMII27),and 
combine some of the abilities of the ooze 
with those of a golem. A blow from one of 
these creatures paralyses for 2dl0 turns 
(save vs. Paralysis to negate) in addition to 
inflicting normal damage. Magical weap 
ons are required to hit slime golems, which 
are immune to acid, cold, heat and fire, and 
to sleep, charm and hold spells. 

A slime golemcanmoveequally effectively 
on land and through water, and its soft, 
semi-transparent flesh allows it to squeeze 
through narrow gaps with ease. 

Life-Bane Duplicates 

A duplicate created by Nuala's power of 
life-bane (see PSVII) is a magical entity 
which can parasitically tap the vitality of a 
single victim (no saving throw). This 
lapping cannot be halted until the dup 
licate is destroyed, or the victim dies from 
the strain, giving the duplicate the powers 
of the victim. 

In appearance, voice and so on, a duplicate 
is indistinguishable from the original, and 
even has copies of the victim's clothing and 
equipment. Although a duplicate would 
be capable of fooling even the closest 
associates of the victim under normal 
circumstances, a truesight spell or similar 
magic would reveal it as an impostor, and a 
detect magic spell will reveal a magical 
aura. 


Powers of Duplicates 

Duplicates exist only as long as their 
individual victims live and they can 
continue to sap energy from them. During 


this time, duplicates can utilise all of the 
powers and abilities available to their 
individual victims... and more! 


Duplicated Powers 

With the exception of additional powers 
(see below), all of the attributes of a 
duplicate (including ability scores and 
bonuses, hit points, combat abilities, 
special abilities and so on) are identical to 
those of its victim before he or she was 
affected by Nuala's magic. 

When the link is first established with a 
spell-using victim, the duplicate gains 
"copies" of the spells which the victim has 
memorised at the time and can cast them in 
the same manner. Although a duplicate's 
spells are used up in the normal way when 
it casts them, it cannot relearn spells of its 
own accord. Instead, the spells it has 
available are determined by which ones the 
victim memorises. Each time that its victim 
relearns spells or memorises new ones, the 
duplicate's list of available spells becomes 
the same as the victim's. 

Although the duplicate has the same list of 
spells as its victim, the casting of a given 
spell by the duplicate does not affect the 
character's ability to use it. Similarly, if the 
character casts a spell this does not deprive 
the duplicate of it. 


Duplicated Equipment 

In addition to taking on the physical form 
of its victim, a duplicate also acquires 
temporary "copies" of all his or her 
personal equipment. This includes 
clothing, armour, weapons, magical items, 
horses or other animals, but not, of course, 
any human or demi-human henchmen or 
hirelings. 


This equipment is identical in appearance 
to the originals, and can be used by the 
duplicate in the same way. It is not real in 
the ordinary sense and exists only because 
of the duplicate's life-draining. Only the 
duplicate concerned may use it, and it 
vanishes if the duplicate is destroyed. 
Acquisition or loss of equipment by the 
victim or duplicate do not affect the 
equipment possessed by the other - nor do 
damage or other changes (including using 
up the charges of magical items). 


Additional Powers 

In addition to simply copying characters' 
original abilities, the accelerated rate at 
whichduplicatesusetheir victims' energies 
means that, in some respects, they are more 
powerful than the victims were originally. 
The extra abilities of duplicates are listed 
below: 

- Regeneration: Duplicates regenerate lost 
hit points at a rate of 2 per round after 
inj ury, so long as they remain above zero 
hit points. 

- Movement: Duplicates can move at a rate 
3" greater than the victim. 

- Reaction Speed: Duplicates have a bonus 
of 1 on all initiative rolls. 

- Melee Attacks: In melee, a duplicate has 
1 attack per round more than its victim 
had. 

- Magical Immunity: Duplicates are 
immune to mind-affecting magic, such 
as sleep, charm, and hold spells. 


Killing Duplicates 

When a duplicate is "killed" (reduced to 0 
hit points or below), it and all of its 
duplicated equipment vanish in a brilliant 
flash of light, leaving behind not a single 
trace. 


24 NEW MONSTERS (Slime Golem/Life-Bane Duplicates) 










TREASURY 


DISTINGUISHED HALLS 


AiSLE 


F *CR3PT 


HALLS Ql 


GATE 

HOUSE 


RULINi: A 


COURT 


justice: 


resjdehgl 


FLOWER 

¦jARDEJM 


¦ RACKS 




E PUNGEDN 


HOUSE 


STAPLES 


:KF!.OCMS 


COURTYARD 


gate 

house 


STORE 


jj" WHARF jJ 


STAIR5 
U P TO 

E4 a 


OnL SQUARE EQUALS TWENTY FEET 


Round Level, 



I _ 4 

4 

i 

? - 

A 



1 - 












E' 

(3 




H 

ER( 

> A 

MD 




VEC 

iET 


Z 





6AI 

IDE 

h 

















LX 

A LI 

ED 



61. 


hA 

UJS 







Ml 











1 E 

16 





a 

N IF 

1C II 

JA\| 



-ft |B 









115;! 

1 









r 

(¦ 




" 

| 

1 














Li 

J 


w O 






_ 



" 











| El 

el 

Ell 


U* -£- : • # 

¦ 









COURT 






YARD 







1 1 






¦ ' 





































































































































































































LORD HIGH 

BAILIFF'S RESIDENCE 


HOSprnurtA 


BARRACKS 


OriE SQUARE EQ0A15 TWENTY FEELT 


"i r 

DOOR 

El 


wiiidow 

* 


SPIRAL STAIRS 

TT 



111]li I H 

STAIRS 





Jl 


COVERED PASSAGE 


GATE 

4 U Q 

CAVE MOUTH 

GUARD POST 

9 Z 9 

MARSH 

GRILLE 

9 9 Q 

I5LAFXD 

PATH 


ROCK 

CAU5EWAV 

RIVER 


DISTINGUISHED HALLS 


EZ1 | 

HALLS OF SCRIPT LNG 


AS 


WE5PCVA AND WACjNI£!CIWW 

knowledge 


GATE 

HOUSE 


EXALTED 

halls 




























































































































mpgKfost 

M A * M 1 5QGARE * 2.0 FE£T 




















































































































































MA17LAI7D 


• HORT H ¦ \J 

me tex : 
eouqtS 


/ive miles 


t AUf?&WA^ 


PER walLOP 


VI PET 

ISU 


=9 LOWER WAU DP 


Fife HARCj : 


9 FIS GLUai 


iPPING 


MYRK. 15 


FI2 5TUM '5 


15LAHD 


MAR5H 

MAR5H 

TRACK 

ROPE; LOS 
5R1P3E. 


mix ^S- 

¦ 1 ' mi 

i / 




df> 

- ^ 

L// 

/) ' j 

f 





I 













































































































































' - 1 •' *. ¦ "M 

Advanced 
Du ngeonsflpragon s 

Official Game Adventure 

-------- ^ 

- Ravager Or-Time 

Graeme Morris & Jim Bambra 



So this is the Ffenargh? Milf after mile of 
stinking bogs overlain by a swirling mist that 
clings to the skin and chills to the bone. Ahead, 
a decrepit causeway rises scant inches above 
the fetid waters and meanders its way through 
the twisted forms of stunted -trees into the 
depths of this forsaken land* 

For years, these blighted hgns have been 
ignored by the outside world, but now an 
urgent summons brings you into the Ffenargh, 
to the Court of the Lords Spiritual at Eylea. A 
foul murder has been committed. Geoffrey 
D'Arcy, Lord of Myrkfast, has been slain by his 
own son and you are called upon to find out 
why. 

Death has always hung heavy over this mire, 
but now an ancient evil has returned to haunt 
the mist - an evil whose icy fingers reach out 
to crush any who dare delve its secrets. You 
who have faced death a thousand times, meet 
it now in its most terrible guise. Can you defeat 
it, or will you fall victim to the Ravager of 

Time?- 

• .. ' 

This adventure is for use with the ADVANCED 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS' game and cannot be 
played without the AD&D' rules produced by 
7^ _ TSR Inc. 

An Adventure for 6-10 Characters of Levels 8-10 

'-Copyright 1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed In U.S.A. 

TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill 
Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB1 4AD 
United Kingdom 


TSk, Inc. 
POEL726 
Lake Geneva 
WI53147 
USA 



0-88038-277-5 
ISBN 394-55421-3TSR0800 


a 


| 

| 

9 



46363 

59169 




9169XXX1401 
























