Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Threshold #4"
See other formats
#4 




Oie Mystarca MagaziNe 



Return to Dread 




ISSUe CONtGNtS 




Issue #4 

Editorial 1 

This Issue's Contributors 3 

The History of Ierendi and Minrothad 4 

Bararna Island Map 35 

Advice for traders in the Sea of Dread 36 

KRON - The Raft City 57 

The Three Starflowers 67 

Savage Tide Adaptation 95 

Once in a Blue Moon 156 

The Lower Ruins of Kotesh 175 

Thyatian Senators 186 

Time's Travels 208 

Artwork Sources and Credits 210 

Next Issue 215 



Threshold: The Mystara Magazine is a non-commercial, fan-produced magazine. There is no 
intention to infringe on anyone's rights, and in particular not on those of Wizards of the Coast, 
which holds all rights to the original material on which the magazine is based. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Efcitonial 





"I must go down to the sea again. . . " 

Who would have known we could come up with so much 
material on a single subject? Certainly not the Editor in Chief 
of the past two issues of Threshold! He was nearly swept off 
the deck of his ship by the sheer amount of artistry that our 
contributors have supplied. A cornucopia of material that 
crashed upon our computer screens like the waves of the Sea 
of Dread crash upon the shores of Karameikos! 

Honestly, I began this process with a lot of excitement, and more 
than a little trepidation. I've been a contributor to the Vaults 
for a long time (first through the MML, MMB, and finally now 
at the Piazza), and have contributed to other fan based products 
as well (most notably the Mystara Almanacs, and the Tome of 
Mystara), but I've never really been on this end of the editing 
process. I was extremely lucky that the editors of the previous 
issues of Threshold (Giampaolo Agosta and Andrew Theisen) 
both already had some experience in this venue, and I was able 
to learn a lot by watching them go through the process before 
me. 

Despite this, nothing could have prepared me for the sheer 
amount of material that came flooding in on the Sea of Dread. 
I went from fearing that we would receive no articles, to fearing 
that we had received too many. . . so many in fact that we had to 
split the Sea of Dread topic into two issues - and I think i was 
still nearly overwhelming! 

I'm really proud of the quality of the work that lies before you, 
especially given the quantity of it all. But I'm also more than a 
little tired. Serving as Editor in Chief of these past two issues 
has been a dream come true for me, but I'm ready to pass the 
torch onto the next brave soul. I'm going to find a beach, sip 
some rum, and quietly return to the other side of the editor's 
table to pen a few articles of my own. . . at least for a while. 

Having said all of that, I'm very excited about what we have to 
present you with in Issue #4 - there is going to be some truly 
epic material within these electronic pages! Set your eyes on 
the horizon as we prepare to Return to the Sea of Dread! 

John Calvin (Chimpman) 
Editor-in-chief, Threshold Issue #4 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



EOitouial 




EOitotual CRGbits 



Threshold Editorial Team: 

Allan Palmer (AllanP) 
Andrew Theisen (Cthulhudrew) 
Troy Terrell (CmdrCorsiken) 
Francesco Defferrari (Sturm) 
Giampaolo Agosta (Agathokles) 
Havard 

John Calvin (Chimpman) 
Robert Nuttman (RobJN) 
Simone Neri (Zendrolion) 

Thorfinn Tait (Thorf) - Editor Emeritus 
THRESHOLD logo designed by Thorf 



Editor-in-Chief, Issue 4: 

John Calvin (Chimpman) 

Layout: 

Allan Palmer (AllanP) 
Art: 

John Calvin (Chimpman) & I. Calvin 
Thorfinn Tait (Thorf) 

Cartography: 

Simone Neri 
John Calvin 
Francesco Defferrari 
Michele C. 

Andrew Theisen (Cthulhudrew) 



Thanks To: The Mystara Community, for your support, hard work, and dedication to Mystara. 



The aims of Threshold magazine: 

? to provide a venue for community members to present material 

? to promote the Vaults of Pandius and the material there 

? to increase the exposure of existing and new articles 

? to encourage authors to revisit and revitalise existing articles 

? to motivate interest in Mystara in general 



'THRESHOLD* 




Issues #1 to #3 of THRESHOLD - the 
Mystata Magazine, is available for 
download from the Vaults of Pandius 
website . 

Also available at the same location are 
higher resolution versions of the maps 
that were included in the issue's PDF, 
allowing greater detail to be viewed. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Cftis Issue's CoNtnitoutons 




Ojis Issue's CoNtuifcutORS 



Jesper Andersen (a.k.a. Spellweaver) has 
been a fan of the Known World and Mystara 
since his first D&D game in 1991. He enjoys 
creating new adventures, stories, characters 
and monsters, much of which can be found at 
the Vault of Pandius. His latest personal 
adventure, however, is the launch of his own 
RPG publishing company called Blood 
Brethren Games. 

/. "Meandrathel" Calvin enjoys drawing 
fantasy, and animals that can kill. Namely 
wolves, dragons, horses, and most large 
felines. Human animal hybrids are not 
excluded either; she often draws human 
versions of her favorite animals. She does, 
however, despise drawing things that are 
unbearingly cute. It's a pretty awful thing to 
do. 

John Calvin is fascinated by the depth of 
Mystaran history, and has always wanted to 
share that more fully with players. To that end 
he has been developing sub-settings like The 
Hollow Moon and Mystara 2300 BC. 

Giulio Caroletti started playing in Mystara 
with the old red box in 1992, and hasn't 
stopped since. He went "internet" on the MML 
as Captain Iulius Sergius Scaevola in 1999, and 
has since written mostly about Thyatis and 
Dwarves. When not busy pretending to be a 
Thyatian officer, he lives a boring life as an 
atmosphere physicist from Rome, Italy. His 
main interests are light-eyed girls, soccer (he's 
an AS Roma fan) and rock music (especially 
70s progressive rock). 

Michele "LoZompatore" C. played BECMI for 
most of his life, starting way back in 1987. He 
most of all likes mixing and matching canon 
and fanon material about Mystara to see how 



many new adventure hooks can be churned 
out. In the little spare time away from Mystara 
he helps other guys in designing oil and gas 
pipelines around the (real) world. 

Even though Sturm (a.k.a. Francesco 
Defferrart) loves any alternate world, he 
believes Mystara is incomparably the best for 
its vibrant community endlessly delving into 
ethnography, linguistics and history just to 
make a little sense of it. Something like the 
real world, but with dragons. 

David Keyser has run four long-term 
campaigns set in Mystara since the 1980s, 
using published adventure and support 
materials as much as possible. He denies 
having any creative talent himself. It's just that 
if you put him with a group of friends who 
are willing to work with him to provide an 
evening of entertainment, there's a 
momentary spark like the scratch of flint on 
steel... and then something magical happens. 

Simone Neri (Zendrolion) teaches history 
and philosophy at secondary school in 
Florence, Italy. He has mastered Mystara 
campaigns since 1987, his favourite settings 
being Thyatis, Norwold, Karameikos, and 
Glantri. He is an active member of The Piazza 
community with the nickname of Zendrolion 
- but don't fear backstabbing from him! 

In his house at The Piazza, Cthulhudrew 
(a.k.a. Andrew Theisen) waits, dreaming. 
"That campaign world is not dead, which can 
eternal lie; and with strange aeons, Mystara 
shall once again rise." 




"Ci7e Histony of ieneNfci aNO MiNnotliaO 




the HisroRy OF 




aNt> 




Part Two: From the Lycanthropic Plague 

to the Ierendian Independence 

by Simone Neri (Zendrolion) 



'CHE FIFTH CENTURy 

The 5 th century AC is remembered in the 
Known World and surrounding regions as the 
century in which the dreadful plagues of 
lycanthropy and vampirism hit with 
unprecedented virulence the population of 
the coastal countries. Those regions which 
had more frequent contacts with the outside 
world - coastal countries with trade ties to 
eastern lands, like the Colony Islands and 
Thyatis - took the brunt of the plague spread. 
Werecreatures and vampires sprung up 
among the human population, sowing panic 
in the cities and towns, terrorizing villages 
and hamlets, and ultimately finding places to 
hide in the borderland and wilderness areas; 
at the same time, the demihuman realms 
closed their borders to avoid the contagion 
of a plague which could erase their races from 
the face of the Outer World 1 . 

The spread of the "modern" strains of 
lycanthropy and vampirism began around AC 
400 in the Alphatian mainland, following the 
experiments in shapeshifting of some 
Alphatian wizards 2 . What they were 

1 As known, lycanthropy is deadly to 
demihumans. 

2 

This is the origin of the curse told in PC4 
Night Howlers; however, as it can be guessed by 



experimenting with, unfortunately, got out of 
their hands, and caused the development of 
dozens of lycanthropy strains which killed 
thousands of people and affected thousands 
more in their homeland. Traders from the 
Known World, in particular Minrothian ones 
- who were some of the most far-ranging 
merchants of this age, and some of the few to 
trade directly with the Alphatian homeland - 
unknowingly brought the plague to the Sea 
of Dread region, from where it then spread 
into the surrounding countries. 

Modern historians trace back the first cases 
of "Alphatian" lycanthropy in the Known 
World to AC 410, when some Minrothian ships 
came back to Harbortown from the ports of 
mainland Alphatia, carrying on board 
someone affected by the curse. The 
Minrothians' wide-ranging trade network also 
contributed to introduce the disease in many 
other regions they traded with. Strains of bat, 
fox, bear, wolf, boar, tiger, and giant hawk 
lycanthropy spread in the Colony Islands, 
which by AC 450 hosted a sizeable number of 
werecreatures; wererats also appeared at the 

other canon references (like the background of 
Orcus in Wrath of the Immortals), lycathropy 
did already exist in the past, so the one 
originating in Alphatia around AC 400 has to 
be considered only one of the sources of this 
plague. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"C17G Histony of ieneNfci aNO MiNnothat) 




same time in great numbers in Thyatis. The 
underwater realms of the Sunlit Sea did not 
pass this age unharmed, either: in AC 415 
weresharks appeared among the merrow and 
triton populations, and this lycanthropic strain 
spread underwater to an extent not unlike that 
of the land strains. 

While the spread of lycanthropy affected the 
history of most coastal nations of the Known 
World, it had a deeper impact on the society 
of the Colony Islands, triggering the events 
which would later upset the old balance which 
saw the humans as the main race of the 
archipelago, and led to the rise of the elves. It 
is ironical that this dramatic turn of events 
happened right in middle of the age of greater 
prosperity, wealth, and trading influence 
which the Colony Islands' elven-human 
alliance had ever enjoyed until now. 

'Clie ColoNy IslaNDs 
in ttje Fifttj CeNtuirp 

At the beginning of the 5 th century AC, the 
trading combine formed by Harbortown, New 
Alphatia, and Alfeisle's water and wood elves 
was one of the most wealthy realms of the Sea 
of Dread. The combine's merchant ships 
ranged from the Serpent Peninsula to the west, 
to the Darokinian and Traladaran ports to the 
north, to the Alatian Islands and Alphatian 
mainland to the east, selling there the products 
of the wood elves' and New Alphatians' fine 
crafts and bringing back to the Colony Islands 
luxuries from those exotic places. The 
combine's ships were among the most swift 
and seaworthy of the Known World, thanks to 
the lucky combination of the water elves' 
weather magic, shipbuilding skills, and 
seamanship, to the wood elves' ability to grow 
and work quality timber, and to New 
Alphatians' water magic. The combine allowed 



the three parties to exchange developments, 
techniques, and lore, thus making any 
advancement available to each one of them. 
The Minrothians of Harbortown were among 
the richest members of the combine: they 
profited not only thanks to the trade routes, 
but also to the financial loans they ensured 
to the Thyatian Empire and to favorable 
agreements which had allowed them to enter 
the Thyatian Empire's trade system. 

Harbortown 's Dominance 
and the First Traladaran War 

Despite the existence of the combine, the 
Minrothians' fortunes were greatly envied by 
the New Alphatians and by the elves. Indeed, 
Harbortown also prospered thanks to the 
practice of slave trade: trading in ethnic 
Alphatian peoples had been forbidden to 
them since a treaty of AC 284, but in the last 
decades the Minrothians had largely ignored 
that old treaty, and with a sort of tacit 
agreement with their allies in the combine, 
the Minrothians had managed to continue 
their slave trade undisturbed by obtaining 
from the Thyatian Empire limited access to 
its markets for New Alphatia and Alfeisle. 

Money which ended up in the coffers of New 
Alphatia was enough to make them favorable 
to the current state of things; in fact, New 
Alphatia was more and more politically 
dominated by Harbortown's elites from AC 
400 on, effectively being reduced to a vassal 
of the most powerful nearby city. The elves 
did not comply with the situation in the same 
way, and continued to make pressure - albeit 
without success - on Harbortown's 
government regarding the ceasing of the slave 
trade and also the Minrothians' custom - 
borrowed from the Thyatians - to use slaves 
for themselves, to carry on domestic duties 
or to work in plantations. Nevertheless 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie Histony of leneNfci aNt) MiNnotliaO 




Harbortown was by far the most opulent city 
of the archipelago in this age, with thousands 
of halfling slaves working for their Minrothian 
masters both in the city and in surrounding 
plantations. 

Harbortown' s trading power and her link with 
the Thyatian Empire allowed her to defend 
her sphere of influence much more 
aggressively than before. In AC 412 a new 
player threatened to upset the Minrothians' 
influence over trade in Traladara, as the King 
of Darokin, Corwyn VIII, had reduced to vassal 
status many noble clans of the northern region 
of that country through a swift military 
campaign. Fearing that the Darokinian 
conquest of Traladara might oust them from 
that region's markets, Harbortown and New 
Alphatia financed the southern Traladaran 
clans' attempt to assassinate the king to get 
rid of this threat. The plan was carried on 
successfully in the same year AC 412, when 
Corwyn VIII was poisoned. The assassination, 
however, made the son of the last Darokinian 
king, Corwyn IX, eager to take revenge on the 
Traladarans; the new king then decided to 
spark the First Traladaran War (AC 412-417) 3 
by declaring war on the southern Tradalaran 
clans. At first, Harbortown and New Alphatia 
only sent money to finance the allied clans' 
resistance against the Darokinian armies, then 
(AC 415) they had to intervene directly in the 
war in order to make the tide of the conflict 
turn against the invaders . King Corwyn FX 
died in battle in AC 415, and his son was forced 
to sign with the allies the Peace of Marilenev 
(AC 417), relinquishing all claims on Darokin's 
Traladaran holdings. The Minrothians had 

For further details about this conflict, see 
A Karameikos Companion (by G. Agosta), 
Rulers of Darokin (by A. Nowack), and The 
History of Karameikos, in "Threshold" issue no. 
1. 



successfully defended their influence over 
trade in Traladara, which further increased 
in the following years. 

The Spread of Lycanthropy 




Meanwhile, the Minrothians had to cope with 
a much greater threat than Darokin. 
Lycanthropy and vampirism had begun to 
spread too much to be further ignored by 
Trader's Isle Minrothian and New Alphatian 
authorities, mostly because clerical 
countermeasures they had taken proved to 
be of limited effect in fighting these diseases. 

Unrest burst out among the halfling slaves of 
Trader's Isle, who - differently from the 
humans - began to die when the disease 
affected them; despite this, the Minrothians 
brutally quelled any unrest from the halflings. 
The same concern matured among Alfeisle's 
elves, who in AC 416 drastically decided to 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CI7G Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotftat) 




close their borders to anyone coming from the 
outside world, only opening a single port to 
foreign trade, and began to strictly patrol the 
waters around their island to discover and 
ruthlessly destroy any trespasser. All the while, 
the Minrothians blamed the New Alphatians 
for the spread of the disease, while the New 
Alphatians accused Harbortown authorities to 
be unable to deal with the problem. Panic was 
beginning to spread in the archipelago. 

In AC 423 mortality in Harbortown among the 
halfling slaves ran so high that a violent 
uprising took place and the government had 
to call in the army and put it down bloodily 
with the force of arms. A commission devoted 
to find a solution to the continued spread of 
this disease was installed, but its work 
proceeded slowly. People did not know that 
this slowness was caused by the fact that some 
of the commission's members had relatives 
affected by lycanthropy, and they feared that 
- if it was discovered that a proper cure did 
not exist at all - the final decision may fall on 
extermination of all the afflicted; thus they 
tried to delay the commission's works as much 
as possible. 

Eventually, in AC 429, dramatic rise of 
lycanthropy cases forced Harbortown's 
government to enact an extreme solution, 
instituting under the urging of Alfeisle's elves 
a special military unit to fight the disease; as 
it had been feared, the unit is tasked with the 
extermination of any afflicted individual 
discovered. The measure was strongly 
opposed by a minority of Harbortown's and 
New Alphatia's elites, and at the end it was 
approved only in Harbortown. Many people 
there were executed in the first weeks, and 
some more fled to other lands beyond the 
grasp of Harbortown's special unit. For a 
couple of years the spread of lycanthropy 



seemed to stop and the disease appeared to 
be in check, but thereafter new cases sprung 
up again on Trader's Isle, and the special unit 
became increasingly unable to track the 
afflicted ones and hunt them down. As it 
would become apparent later, that was 
because some members of Harbortown's 
government were lycanthropes themselves, 
and set things in order to avoid drawing 
attention on themselves and other afflicted 
individuals who were their friends or relatives. 

Again, many people began voicing against the 
government's inability to stop the disease, 
and their number and influence increased as 
protests were joined by plantation owners 
and other upper class peoples - who 
possessed many halfling slaves and were 
seeing them dying with increasing financial 
losses for themselves. Gradually, the 
intransigent faction got the upper hand and, 
between AC 433 and AC 436, Harbortown's 
government was purged from lycanthrope 
members; additional special measures were 
taken to shield the halfling slaves from the 
danger of the contagion. 

The result of this strict anti-lycanthrope policy 
in Harbortown was the relocation of many 
lycanthropes in New Alphatia. The latter town 
had not approved any special measure, and 
in the course of the AC 430s had seen a rising 
number of lycanthropes fleeing from the rest 
of Trader's Isle migrating or hiding within its 
territory and walls. Moreover, the political 
elites of New Alphatia - many members of 
which were lycanthropes - favored the 
adoption of a humane treatment of the 
afflicted people, upholding that it was not 
necessary to kill all the afflicted and that it 
was sufficient to take measures just to restrain 
them while in beast form. Thus, the New 
Alphatian government fiercely opposed the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnothafc 




intransigent policy which Harbortown was 
carrying on, not letting any special squad or 
werehunters in her territory. On the other 
hand, the "restrainment measures" advocated 
by New Alphatia did not decrease death cases 
and killings due to lycanthropy, nor the spread 
of the disease; and this hampered the solution 
of the problem in the whole of Trader's Isle. 

The Silver Purge 




By AC 440, Trader's Isle had become again the 
home of a substantial number of 
werecreatures, a vast concentration of which 
was found in New Alphatia and in the 
surrounding countryside. The combine's trade 
and wealth had suffered a steep decline in the 
recent decades, because of the trouble with 
the disease and the unrest at home, the closure 
of Alfeisle's ports to humans and alleged 
disease-carriers, and the strict limitations on 
trade with Minrothians and New Alphatians 
imposed by many mainland ports which feared 
they might bring a further spread of the disease 
in their own lands. 

As trade continued to decline and the number 
of lycanthropes on Trader's Isle to increase, 



an informal group of elven hunters called 
"The Beastslayers" appeared on Trader's Isle, 
with the goal to do what the human 
governments were unable to carry on: the 
slaying of all lycanthropes. It was led by a 
young wood elf, Ruaidhri, whose family had 
been exterminated by a group of bloody 
werehawks some years before. Harbortown' s 
and New Alphatia's authorities fiercely 
protested against the group's violent actions, 
which they considered illegal. In AC 442, one 
of the Beastslayers was indeed captured by 
New Alphatia's guards and held responsible 
for homicide; he was swiftly executed. 

Ruaidhri went back to Alfeisle and spoke in 
front of the elven clanmasters: he told the 
elven elders what he had seen on Trader's 
Isle, and succeeded in persuading them that 
it was only a matter of time before the disease 
spread with pandemic proportions to the 
whole human population of the Known 
World, thus inevitably sealing also the elves' 
fate. Their trade in decline, their trust in the 
future of the combine broken, the water and 
wood elven clanmasters ultimately decided 
to gather their forces to put an end to the 
threat of lycanthropy once and for all with a 
drastic and ruthless action. They gathered 
hundreds of silver-armed elven warriors, put 
them under the leadership of Ruaidhri 
himself, and sent such a strike force against 
Trader's Isle in AC 443. The Silver Purge had 
begun 4 . 

Trader's Isle fell into anarchy as part of the 
human population sided with the elves in 
order to get rid of the lycanthropes. Both 
human governments of the isle fell into chaos. 
The conflict, which was a true civil war, lasted 



Among lycanthropes, this event is known as 
the Great Persecution (see PC4 Night Howlers, 
DM's Guide, page 4). 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



two years. Lycanthrope attacks became fiercer 
and more desperate, because they knew their 
only alternative was death. On their part, the 
elves were even too zealous in pursuing their 
goal, for they were guilty of slaughtering 
helpless human families and people who were 
only suspected of being lycanthropes. After a 
bloody internal civil war, the faction favorable 
to the Silver Purge took the lead in 
Harbortown and tried to help the elves carry 
on the extermination of lycanthropes, but 
mostly had to cope with the reestablishment 
of order in its territory and undertook only 
limited actions. 




The war reached a climax in AC 445, when 
the elves attacked New Alphatia, where a high 
number of lycanthropes was known to have 
hidden. The city was besieged while the elven 
fleet killed anyone seeking to escape through 
the sea. When the elven army finally breached 
through the city's defenses, the elven general 
ordered to put the city to flames to avoid any 
of the lycanthropes escaping. Many thousands 
of innocent people died in the torching of 
New Alphatia, which was left as a blackened 
ruin to remember the fate of the lycanthropes 
on Trader's Isle. Fightings continued for 
some months, but at the end of AC 445 the 
elven force had rid the island of most 
werecreatures. A few of them survived 
though, hiding in the deep forests and 
mountains, always on the run to avoid being 
tracked down by elven rangers and hunters 5 . 

Other islands of the Colony archipelago 
under Harbortown's control were scarcely 
affected by the Purge. Fortress, Blackrock, 
and Fire islands were nearly uninhabited, 
while the few cases of lycanthropy affliction 
which were discovered on Open Isle, North 
Island, and Terentias had been swiftly dealt 
with. Nevertheless, in AC 444 an unusually 
high number of afflictions was discovered on 
the island of Terentias - likely caused by 
lycanthropes who had managed to evade the 



In particular, it may be worth noting that 
Ruaidhri continued his extermination of 
werehawks up to total accomplishment, in AC 
582, when the elf slaughtered the last recorded 
members of this strain in a "tiny island of the 
Sea of Dread" (PC4 Night Holwers, DM's 
Guide, page 4). The haven of the last 
werehawks might have been one of the myriad 
lesser islands not featured on 8-miles per hex 
poster maps of Minrothad and Ierendi, or one 
of the lesser, more distant atolls and keys of 
the Sea of Dread (see The Minor Islands of the 
Sea of Dread, in "Threshold" issue no. 3). 




"Ci7e Histony of leneNfci aNO MiNiiothat) 




elves' blockade around Trader's Isle. The water 
elf minority living in Terentias was favorable 
to call in the aid of Alfeisle's elves to carry on 
the Silver Purge in the island, but the human 
majority feared more the excesses perpetrated 
by the elves on Trader's Isle than the 
lycanthropes. When rumors spread that a 
brigade of elven werehunters was about to set 
sail to Terentias, the human leaders of the 
town of Crossbones decided to petition the 
Thyatian Empire for protection against the 
elves' wrath. The water elf minority was forced 
to accept this development, and in AC 445 
Thyatian cohorts landed on Terentias and on 
North Island to "protect" those places 6 ; the 
empire ensured the elves that it would have 
taken care to disposed of the lycanthropy- 
afflicted population - without excessive 
bloodshed. The elves complied, still keeping 
alert for further cases of affliction, and still 
watching closely their borders. 

It is worth noting that the war against the 
werecreatures did not leave the Sunlit Sea 
untouched, either. The spread of lycanthropy 
among tritons and merrows had threatened 
to overrun the whole underwater realms with 
the foul werecreatures. Moreover, the spread 
of the plague had opened a rift in Undersea's 
triton society, with two factions accusing each 
other of hosting werecreatures within its ranks. 
Informed by the Aquarendi elves of what was 
happening above the surface, the tritons and 
merrows started their own werehunt in AC 
443, with what is known as the "Night of Long 
Knives" 7 . Thousands of tritons and merrows 

6 This passage of Terentias under Thyatian 
control was borrowed from History of the 
Thyatian People (by J. Ruhland); I tried to make 
it fit within the context of the Silver Purge, also 
adding the extension of Thyatian control over 
North Island. 

7 See PC3 The Sea People, The Sea People 



died during this two years' purge, which was 
prevented from escalating into a full civil war 
only through Aquarendi mediation. 
Nevertheless, the annihilation of lycanthropes 
in Undersea did nothing to heal the hates and 
enmities which the purge had created in the 
triton society - and which to some extent still 
endure today. 

The Purge's Aftermath 

At the end of the Purge, Harbortown's power 
was broken, and New Alphatia was no more. 
The elves' economy had suffered as well, due 
to the breakup of their trading combine with 
the humans - even if they were able to make 
up for some of the losses substituting their 
own influence to Harbortown's vanished one 
in some of the mainland markets, it was the 
Thyatian Empire's trade network which 
mostly benefited from the decline of the 
Minrothians. With Trader's Isle's political and 
trade power disrupted, in the next forty years 
(also thanks to a time of relative peace in the 
relations of their empire with Alphatia) 
Thyatian merchants exploited the gap opened 
by the formers' demise, seizing the slave trade 
in the western sea routes and pushing 
themselves up to the Serpent Peninsula and 
even to the Green Coast of Davania 8 . 

Book, page 42. 

8 

Thyatian expansion in the western Sea of 
Dread and in Davania draws on this passage 
found in Champions of Mystara boxed set, 
Explorer's Manual, p53: "The stretch of 
Davania's coast closest to Yavdlom is inhabited 
by scattered city-states, the remnants of 
Thyatian and other nations' colonies that have 
since lost ties with their mother countries". A 
similar statement is found in Poor Wizard's 
Almanac II & III (in the "Davania" entry). The 
fate of the Thyatian expansion in the western 
Sea of Dread and in the Green Coast of 
Davania will be hinted at in the subsequent 
paragraph and chapters of this article. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie Histony of ieneNOi aNO MiNnotftat) 




Afterwards, the Thyatian Empire and the 
clanmasters of Alfeisle signed a treaty in Pilion 
(AC 446), under which Thyatis got control of 
Terentias, North Island, and the atoll of Fire 
Island, while the elves assumed control over 
Open Isle - something they seemingly coveted 
for some unknown purpose. The treaty ruled 
that the rest of the archipelago - the whole 
Trader's Isle, and the two minor and nearly 
uninhabited Fortress and Blackrock islands - 
were put under the rule of a Guardianship 
Council seated in Harbortown, whose 
members were jointly selected by the elven 
clanmasters and by the Thyatian Empire; all 
local government of Trader's Isle - including 
Harbortown 's - had to submit to the authority 
of the Guardianship Council. The Treaty of 
Pilion stated that the purpose of the Council 
was to ease the restoration of social peace, 
order, and prosperity in Trader's Isle after the 
Silver Purge, thus its rule was planned as 
temporary and lasting ten years, after which 
Harbortown 's government should ideally take 
care of itself again. 

The Halflings' Uprising 

The situation on Trader's Isle, however, was 
still tense. Unrest had dominated the halfling 
slave population during the Silver Purge, and 
their wish to be freed could be only barely 
controlled now that the island's political 
leadership was in turmoil. Numerous slave 
uprisings occurred, but the Guardianship 
Council was divided over the issue: pro- 
Thyatian members wanted to keep halflings 
as slaves or at best as indentured servants, 
while pro-Alfeisle ones wanted them free. 
Meanwhile, many Minrothian landowners, in 
front of the Council's inability to decide the 
fate of the halflings, decided to use 
mercenaries and their own armed guards to 
put down those uprisings with force. Troops, 



however, were sent by the Council to disarm 
those forces, because it feared that social 
tensions and disorder may allow again for a 
spread of lycanthropy. Some landowners 
responsible for the violence against the 
halfling slaves, and some of the uprisings' 
slave leaders were imprisoned or executed, 
further exasperating the discontent both of 
the Minrothian landowners and of the halfling 
slaves. 

The elves of Alfeisle had always hated slavery, 
had fully realized that the Thyatians would 
have never allowed the formal freeing of the 
halflings (Thyatis' economy was centered on 
slave labor, after all), and were unable to 
tolerate the halflings' slavery in their 
archipelago anymore, most of all in the 
wretched conditions they had to suffer. Since 
the time of the Treaty of Pilion, they had come 
up with their own plan, and had assumed 
control of Open Isle just for this purpose. 
They had selected one free halfling, Malf 
Quickhand, born in Harbortown from slave 
parents who had died before the Silver Purge. 
During the Purge, Malf had helped defend 
and free groups of former halfling slaves who 
had fled from the plantations or were seeking 
shelter from lycanthrope attacks. Malf was 
wanted by Harbortown' s authorities after the 
Silver Purge, so he accepted the elves' offer 
to hide him on Alfeisle. There, he was 
educated to elven and mainland culture - 
including that of his own people in the Shires 
- and trained in seamanship, combat, trade, 
and administration. The elven clanmasters 
wanted to make him the instrument to bring 
about the end of the halfling slavery on 
Trader's Isle, and Malf was more than happy 
to play this role. 

In AC 449, Malf and the elves agreed upon 
the details of a plan for a great halfling 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotftao 




uprising on Trader's Isle, and then traveled 
again to Harbortown. He spent some months 
making contacts with various slave groups and 
with their leaders, putting together the plans 
for an uprising. Then, in AC 450, the rebellion 
broke out as planned in the city of Harbortown 
itself; Malf took immediately the leadership of 
the uprising, which saw the contemporary rise 
of halfling slaves in many plantations, and the 
formation of an halfling army which marched 
on Harbortown, freeing any halfling slave 
found on its route. Weapons secretly shipped 
to them by the elves gave the rebel army the 
necessary tools to achieve victory. 

Harbortown's government fled from the town, 
fearing slaughter, while the Guardianship 
Council was still too much divided between 
pro-Thyatian and pro-elves to act. The rebel 
army occupied the city and, under the 
leadership of Malf, took possession of a series 
of disused ships found in Harbortown's 
harbor. Using some special tackle provided by 
the elves, the halflings managed to embark on 
those ships, set sail, and take the sea 
undisturbed. As Malf had agreed with the elven 
clanmasters, the halfling flotilla was to land 
on Open Isle, which the elves had previously 
secured for themselves at Pilion in order to 
make it the former slaves' new homeland. 

On Open Isle, Malf and the other halfling 
leaders met with representatives of Alfeisle's 
clanmasters, and the Pacts of Highston were 
signed in a village along the banks of the isle's 
main river. The Pacts recognized the halflings 
as an independent people, and gave them the 
full possession of Open Isle, over which the 
elves relinquished control; as a free people, 
the halflings would decide autonomously the 
best way to rule themselves; also, the Pacts 
established a new trading combine between 
the elves of Alfeisle and the halflings of Open 



Isle, and established a steady flow of elven 
aid which would have allowed the building 
of infrastructures, villages, and the start of 
manufacturing activities. 

The Decades of 

the Thyatian Protectorate 

Malf s uprising had left Trader's Isle further 
damaged from an economic and social point 
of view; demographic and economic decline 
had crippled many activities and businesses, 
many of which had fallen directly or indirectly 
into the hands of foreign people, mostly 
Thyatians and elves from Alfeisle. Many 
members of the Minrothian and New 
Alphatian aristocracy had to sell their lands 
due to the loss of halfling manpower, or had 
seen their merchant activities disrupted; they 
begin to marry into well-off, non-noble 
families in order to join fortunes together 
and restore the wealth of their clans. This 
gradually blurred the identity of the old 
merchant and land owning aristocracies, and 
opened the social landscape to the rise of 
new families from the middle classes. 
Moreover, the following decades saw the 
gradual blending of the two main ethnic 
groups of Trader's Isle - the more numerous 
Minrothians, and the much depleted New 
Alphatians - who slowly began to think of 
themselves as a single people. 

Harbortown's authorities regain control of 
their territory, but in the Guardianship 
Council accusations run high between the 
pro-Thyatian members who denounced the 
elves' direction of the slave uprising behind 
the scenes, and the pro-Alfeisle members who 
saw what had happened positively and 
wanted to carry it further on to total abolition 
of slavery on the isle. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"C17G Histony of ieneNfci aNO MiNuofliat) 




During the Decades of the Thyatian Protectorate 



The Thyatian Empire had not taken too kindly 
the hit scored by the elves. In the previous 
years following the Silver Purge, Thyatian 
moneylenders had invested considerable sums 
of money in the support of Harbortown's 
economy, lending funds to help damaged 
landowners to rebuild their plantations and 
local governments and aristocracy to repair 
infrastructures in villages and towns; Thyatian 
money had also helped Harbortown 
government to restore order and trade 
through recruitment of a Thyatian mercenary 
force, repairing of the city's shipyards, and 
rebuilding of a merchant fleet. In sum, the 
empire had tried to keep Trader's Isle under 
its own influence while elven presence on it 
was mostly focused on tracking the last 
lycanthropes hidden in the wilderness. After 
the elves had staged the halfling uprising, 
however, Thyatis feared that Alfeisle's 
clanmasters were trying to oust the empire 
from the isle. 



Thus, the Thyatian government protested 
against the Pacts of Highston, demanding 
reparations to Harbortown's damaged 
families, and foreshadowing the use of force 
to bring the halflings back under Minrothian 
rule. The elves, on the other hand, did not 
wish to make war against the empire - most 
of all because they were unlikely to resist the 
full might of the empire - and managed to 
bargain the halflings' new status with control 
over Trader's Isle, bringing Thyatis to an 
agreement. According to this paper, the 
empire recognized Open Isle's 
independence, the halflings' control over the 
island, the ceasing of halfling slave trade, and 
the right guaranteed to halflings still left on 
Trader's Isle to migrate to Open Isle. In 
exchange, the elves allowed Thyatis to keep 
troops on Trader's Isle, and to lend advisors 
and administrative personnel to 
Harbortown's government, also after the end 
of the Guardianship Council's mandate in AC 
456. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



The agreement effectively allowed Thyatis to 
establish a protectorate over Trader's Isle 9 . 
Already deeply involved in the isle's economic 
rebuilding and in Harbortown's government, 
when the Guardianship Council was dismissed 
in AC 456, the Thyatian Empire was able to 
persuade the local aristocracy to accept the 
installment of an imperial legate to oversee 
the government of the whole island. This is 
considered by historians the de facto 
beginning of the Thyatian protectorate over 
Trader's Isle, which was to last until AC 488. 

Most of the human families of Trader's Isle 
were favorable to receive the aid of Thyatis to 
rebuild their wealth; in the years prior to AC 
456, Thyatis had been shrewd to establish 
strong financial links with many major families 
of Harbortown, which were not willing to 
trade independence with the loss of those 
funds at the time. Some other, in particular 
those of NewAlphatian descent, were opposed 
to this development, but had not enough 
strength to challenge the Thyatian protectorate. 

Trader's Isle's economy was quickly rebuilt in 
the following years, and integrated into the 
empire's trading network; however, Thyatians 
and elves continued, for the most part, to 
control the island's main economic activities. 
Many towns and villages were rebuilt and 
repopulated, and population losses suffered 
during the Silver Purge began to slowly recover 
through a demographic raise and some 
immigration from the mainland. Thyatis 

The Thyatian protectorate over Trader's Isle 
has been included mostly to explain a number of 
sea battles featured on the 8-miles per hex 
poster map of the Sunlit Sea in PC3 The Sea 
People, taking place in AC 500 around the 
Colony Islands; Thyatian interest seemed to me 
the best way to explain a conflict in the 
archipelago. The battles and the events which 
will lead to them are detailed further on. 



helped reorganize the isle's local 
governments around assemblies formed by 
representatives of the wealthier noble and 
merchant families from the countryside and 
the towns, respectively. Many nobles also 
began to take titles borrowed from those of 
the Thyatian nobility, like "baron" and "lord". 

Harbortown formally continued to be a 
sovereign nation, even if general trade and 
foreign policies were strictly overseen by the 
imperial legate. For example, Thyatis 
opposed the inclusion of Harbortown in the 
Alfeisle-Open Isle trading combine, as 
proposed by the elves, and subsequently 
hampered direct intervention in Traladara 
when Duke Demara of Vaion proclaimed 
himself King of Traladara (AC 474) - with the 
result that only some private families of 
Harbortown with interests in Traladaran 
trade lent money to the local clans to fight 
this umpteenth hegemonic attempt 10 . 

Alfeisle and the Other Islands in the 
Latter Half of the Fifth Century 

Terentias saw a great development under 
Thyatian rule, and was fully integrated into 
the empire's administration; however the 
other small island attached to Terentias, 
North Island, saw only very limited 
development under Thyatian rule - a few 
coastal villages and lighthouses, and a fort - 
while the volcanic atoll of Fire Island was left 
uninhabited. The other small and 
unproductive islands under Harbortown's 
formal control - Fortress and Blackrock 
islands - received scarce development as well. 



10 Again, see A Karameikan Companion (by G. 
Agosta) and The History of Karameikos in 
"Threshold" issue no. 1 for additional info 
about this character and his deeds. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"C17G Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotftao 




On Open Isle, the Minrothian families who 
lived there had to submit to the rule of their 
former slaves, being subject to some 
discrimination by the halflings and being kept 
out of local government. Malf Quickhand 
imposed a swift "Hinization" of the island, 
adopting a government structure reminiscent 
of that of the Five Shires, with shires and 
sheriffs, and renaming many geographical 
features of the island, such as its main river 
which became the Quickhand River. The island 
remained a rural country, however, where the 
halflings began to grow spices and other 
agricultural products, the surplus of which 
they traded mostly with Alfeisle's elves. Despite 
this, Open Isle saw a relevant immigration 
from Trader's Isle as the last halflings 
abandoned the place of their former slavery 
to join their free kin. 

Alfeisle's trade prospered again in those 
decades, as the elves gradually reopened their 
borders to foreign traders and again began 
visiting ports abroad in the Thyatian and 
Alphatian empires. Their trade mostly 
concentrated on the eastern regions, because 
growing Thyatian interest in trade routes 
opened to the Serpent Peninsula led the 
empire to discourage the penetration of 
foreign merchants in those regions. Elven and 
halfling trade with Trader's Isle was not as 
limited, and the elves controlled many local 
businesses and guilds in the island, which 
brought sizeable sums of money in the 
clanmasters' chests. Shipbuilding activity and 
trade in precious timber and quality woodcraft 
also spurred the aloof wood elves to establish 
their own port town to trade with foreign 
merchants, the way the water elves had done 
almost two centuries before; thus, the town 
of Verdon was born in AC 475. 



The Struggle for Independence 

In the latter decades of the 5 th century AC, 
however, due to the growth of their 
mercantile interests and to the overall 
prosperity of the island, many Harbortown 
families began to perceive the Thyatian 
protectorate as an excessive restraint to the 
region's further economic development. 
Inclusion in the Thyatian trade network 
benefited largely a small number of local 
noble families who had rebuilt their fortunes 
thanks to Thyatian money, but on the other 
hand it hampered the rise of new families. As 
many of the traditional trades were now 
controlled by Thyatians and elves, and chance 
to emerge in new trade areas was hampered 
by Thyatian trade limitations, new families 
had little hope to raise their fortunes. 

The latter began opposing the amount of 
trade limitations, tariffs, and dues imposed 
by the Thyatians on Trader's Isle trade routes 
and products. The presence of Thyatian 
troops and bureaucrats on the island, paid 
through local taxation, was an additional 
reason of discontent, further heated by the 
fact that the Thyatians controlled many key 
offices of the government, directly or through 
proxies. The elves of Alfeisle and their halfling 
allies of Open Isle, who resented prolonged 
Thyatian control over Trader's Isle and 
imperial limitations on trade as well, were 
supporting behind the scenes this growing 
opposition to the Thyatian protectorate. 

In AC 485 - after a quarrel between local 
nobles and Thyatian mercenaries in 
Harbortown had degenerated into a street 
riot, which had been quelled by the imperial 
troops with some deaths among the 
noblemen - a delegation of Trader's Isle 
nobles led by Hadric Corser, a wealthy 
Harbortown nobleman and merchant, 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CI7G Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotftaO 




reached the imperial capital and asked the 
Thyatian emperor to loosen the trade 
limitations and open access to a larger number 
of the island's natives to government duties 
and charges. The emperor agreed to think 
about the issue but preferred to take time, in 
the meantime removing the legate responsible 
for quelling the riot. Emboldened by this 
success, Corser and his allied nobles then 
asked for the fulfillment of their requests, also 
adding in the abolition of taxation to support 
Thyatian troops on the island. But the Thyatian 
throne ultimately rejected all the requests. The 
noblemen were divided between a powerful 
but small minority which supported the 
continuation of the Thyatian protectorate, and 
a larger number of nobles who opposed it. 

At the following noblemen's assembly in 
Harbortown, the opposing faction presented 
a petition asking for the removal of all Thyatian 
troops from the island, and protests against 
the legate were so loud that neither he nor 
anyone of the supporting faction were allowed 
to speak to the assembly; the legate had to be 
escorted to his residence by the troops, under 
fear of being attacked. It was evident that the 
majority of the noblemen favored the end of 
the protectorate, but Thyatis was not willing 
to give up Trader's Isle, mostly because of the 
financial interests which some important 
Thyatian families had there. 

At the beginning of AC 486, the imperial Senate 
authorized the legate to use force to suppress 
any uprising, if necessary. Unrest began as 
many noblemen, adhering to the proposal of 
Hadric Corser, stopped paying taxes to the 
central government in Harbortown. Skirmishes 
broke out in the countryside and in the city as 
the Thyatian troops were sent to arrest those 
wrongdoers; some were captured and 
confined in a recently-built prison on 



Blackrock Island. But weeks later Hadric 
Corser, who had escaped imprisonment, with 
the secret aid of Alfeisle's elves, led a daring 
naval action against the prison, freeing the 
confined noblemen and razing the place to 
the ground. The group of rebellious nobles 
thus went to the sea, using hidden bays and 
coves on the most uninhabited islands (as 
well as halfling and elven hospitality on their 
islands), and began hitting with swift piratical 
raids the vessels of the Thyatian Empire and 
of Trader's Isle families who supported it. 

The situation was degenerating, but the 
Thyatian naval patrols did not manage to 
locate the rebels' hidden hideouts easily, so 
skirmishes went on both on the sea and on 
land. At the end of AC 487, despite Thyatian 
military presence on Trader's Isle, most of 
the land was beyond the reach of Thyatian- 
controlled government in Harbortown; a 
reform of the protectorate, loosening 
imperial control over the island and 
abolishing taxes to support the troops came 
too late to win back some support for the 
government. Thus, barring outright military 
conquest, it seemed impossible to the 
Thyatians to restore order on the island, and 
even the island's families who supported 
Thyatis began to pressure for an agreement 
with the rebels. Moreover, the successor to 
the Thyatian imperial throne was utterly 
opposed to continued imperial commitment 
on the isle to further the interests of a bunch 
of senatorial families. Road was paved toward 
an agreement which put an end to the 
undeclared war. 

The Reform of the "Great Uniter" 

At the beginning of AC 488, a delegation of 
Trader's Isle noblemen led by Hadric Corser 
met with Thyatian diplomats in Seahome, 
where the elves mediated the agreement. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotftat) 



Thyatis consented to quit its protectorate over At home, Corser was hailed as a hero. Despite 
Trader's Isle, withdrawing most of the troops the payment due to Thyatis and the continued 
and administration personnel, to recognize presence of the imperial garrisons, Trader's 
the country's effective sovereignly, to avoid Island now considered herself an 
prosecuting any individual responsible for the independent nation. Striking deals with the 
pirate actions or the uprisings, and to establish most important noble and merchant families 
new trade relations to allow Trader's Isle of the island, Corser laid the foundations of 
merchants to preserve access to some of the a new, federal and united government of 
empire's markets; in exchange, Thyatis wanted Trader's Isle. Under Corser's reform, each 
the new government to compensate the loss domain and district in which Trader's Isle 
of Thyatian families' interests in the island was divided would have its own hereditary 
through payment of an indemnity. After some noble ruler or elected representative, and an 
quarrels, thanks to the elves it was agreed that assembly representing its most important 
the payment was to be done in installments families; in turn, delegates from each of those 
for the next twenty years, and that the empire assemblies, called "Provincial Estates", took 
was allowed to keep garrisons in Harbortown part in the federal assembly, the "General 
and in a couple of other strongholds as Estates". The system ensured a seat in local 

government and possibly in the federal ones 
even to families who had opposed the rebel 
faction, so the reform was quite popular 
among the whole elite class of the island. 

Still in AC 488, as part of his reform bill, 
Corser decreed the foundation of a new 
capital city of the island, as seat of the General 
Estates and symbol of the recovered unity of 
its inhabitants. He laid the first foundation 
stone of the new city in the Alphatian Caldera, 
on the site where the city of New Alphatia 
stood only fifty years before. The new capital 
was called Minrothad - that is, "Minroth's 
Home" in local tongue, to remember the 
ancient mythic hero who had first settled the 
island and whose return was still awaited by 
the people who worshipped him as Immortal. 
After the foundation of the new city, the 
united people born from the union between 
the Minrothians and the New Alphatians 
began calling themselves "Minrothaddans". 

One of the first acts of the new government 
was to sign agreements with the elves of 
Alfeisle to become part of the trading 




guarantee. 




Bust of Hadric Corser 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Vl7G HlStOlty Of iGUGNt)! aNO MlNUOtliaD 




combine together with the halflings of Open 
Isle. An important consequence of this - and 
something that the elves and the halflings had 
strongly required - was the total abolition of 
slavery in Trader's Isle. Corser and most 
families were willing to allow this, because, 
even if they owned lands and kept some slaves, 
the number of servile manpower had been 
decreasing in the past decades, and the island's 
elite felt it better to let slavery go if this meant 
inclusion in the trading combine and thus 
access to more profitable markets to sell their 
lands' produces. 

Due to his successes, the General Estates 
decreed to confer Hadric Corser the honorific 
appellation of "Great Uniter". But despite 
those good omens, Corser's rule had yet to 
face some tough tests, as Thyatian interference 
in Trader's Isle inner matters was not still 
ended. 

The Trading Combine 

in the Middle of Imperial Struggles 

After the reform of AC 488, order was restored 
on Trader's Isle and peaceful - if wary - 
relations with the Thyatian Empire were 
established. The Thyatians, seeing that 
payment of the indemnity was steady during 
the course of the years, slowly disbanded their 
garrisons in Trader's Isle, keeping only the 
one at Harbortown, albeit reduced in size. The 
independence the Minrothaddans had won 
from the empire, however, had its downsides. 
Trader's Isle merchants had until now enjoyed 
limited access to Thyatian markets, and even 
if their trade was subject to Thyatian control, 
the island's economy had somewhat benefited 
from this. 

Now, the Thyatian government did not hesitate 
to use its own trading power to embarrass and 
destabilize Corser's new government, carrying 




on a protectionist policy against 
Minrothaddan merchandise, and making it 
more difficult for its merchants to do business 
with Trader's Isle ones. To enact this, the 
empire also pushed for a revision of its trade 
agreements with the peoples of Alfeisle and 
Open Isle, bargaining limitations on their 
trade with imperial assent to Trader's Isle 
inclusion in the Colony Islands' trade 
combine. 

Thus, in the next few years the inner political 
and social climate of Trader's Isle improved, 
but its families' trade did not improved as 
they expected since the lifting of the Thyatian 
protectorate. Payments of the indemnity to 
the empire, moreover, began to be quite 
burdening for the government in Minrothad 
as the years passed. As it could be expected, 
smuggling and infringement of the trade 
limitations began to be practiced by the most 
unscrupulous human and elven merchants 
of the Colony Islands' combine. 

By AC 495, Minrothaddan and elven 
smuggling activities were taking place even 
on the shores of the Isle of Dawn and 
Ochalea; the matter could be no longer 
ignored by Thyatis, which had to spend 
considerable resources in a campaign to 
combat smuggling activities, with mixed 
results as the empire got no collaboration 
from the combine. In AC 497, on the eve of 
renewed tensions with Alphatia on the 
eastern and Alasiyan borders, the Thyatian 
government decided to persuade the 
combine to do something against smuggling 
by doubling the garrison at Harbortown. The 
decision was followed by sharp protests by 
the Minrothaddans and the elves, who saw it 
as an attempt to restore the Thyatian 
protectorate over the island. Hadric Corser, 
still the leader of the Minrothad government, 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e Histony of leneNfci aNO MiNnotrjafc 




decided to halt payment of the indemnity to 
the empire (which was still halfway from 
completion) . 

Tensions were on the rise; once Thyatis would 
rid itself of the Alphatian problem on its 
borders, the combine would have had to 
comply with the empire's wishes or try 
resisting alone, and likely fall again under 
Thyatian domination. Then Corser, together 
with the elven and halfling clanmasters, 
decided to play an hazardous card and secretly 
met Alphatian emissaries who had come to in 
Minrothad under disguise in AC 498. 

Skirmishes in Alasiya had begun between 
Thyatian colonies, Alphatian colonies and their 
respective allies since AC 497. The Alphatian 
Empire was busy in their effort to conquer 
Norwold 11 , and the likely outbreak of a war 
against Thyatis both in Alasiya and on the Isle 
of Dawn would distract too many of their 
resources from their campaign in the north - 
where they were encountering some resistance 
from the local barbarian tribes, elven clans, 
and dragons. Having an ally who could keep 
a part of the Thyatian forces busy on the 
western borders of the empire would have 
been very useful to the Alphatians - so they 

11 This first (actually second, if Alinor's one 
has to be considered) Alphatian colonization 
attempt in Norwold is detailed in the novel 
Dragonking of Mystara, by T. Gunnarsson, 
second book of the Dragonlord Trilogy. I assume 
that the events of the novel take place around 
AC 510. For an attempt to reconcile the info 
found within the novel with the Alphatian 
colonization of Norwold mentioned in CM3 The 
Sabre River and try them fit in the general 
history of Norwold, see Timeline of Norwold (by 
myself, with contribution of other Italian MMB 
members). Note that the latter file is somewhat 
out-to-date regarding many details, and will 
likely get a revision in one of the next issues of 
"Threshold" . 



made contact with the Minrothaddans and 
the elves led by Hadric Corser. 

The result was a military alliance according 
to which the Alphatians would send a group 
of seasoned wizards and eventually a fleet to 
support the Minrothians' and elves' struggle 
to expel the Thyatian garrison from 
Harbortown and brake the trading limitations 
the empire was imposing over them. In 
exchange, they offered very good trade 
conditions within their territories to the 
combine's merchants. 

War effectively burst out in AC 499, when 
intense fighting began on the Isle of Dawn 
and Alasiya. While the Alphatians committed 
their forces against the Thyatians, a flying ship 
filled with a brigade of battle mages sailed 
from Alasiya to Minrothad, helping local 
forces to siege and oust the Thyatian garrison 
in Harbortown from Trader's Isle; elven and 
Minrothaddan vessels then moved to strike 
the Thyatian-held islands, Terentias in 
particular. This move caught the Thyatians 
off-guard, and forced them to halt their 
offensive on the Isle of Dawn to send a fleet 
against the Colony Islands. In the meantime, 
one of the sons of the Alphatian emperor, 
Prince Varzathram, led the sizeable Alphatian 
fleet which, with a daring action, breached 
through Thyatian defenses in the Strait of 
Furmenglaive and managed to reach the 
Colony Islands as promised by the empire's 
treaty with Corser. As the war raged in the 
west, on the Isle of Dawn military operations 
stalled - and this was exactly what the 
Alphatians had been wishing for, in order to 
focus their efforts on the Norwold campaign. 

The Thyatian counterattack against the 
Colony Island was led by none less than the 
son of the Thyatian emperor himself. A series 
of naval clashes took place in the Colony 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CI7G Histony of leneNOi aNt) Miiwotliat) 




Islands during the following year. The 
Thyatians had planned a twofold strike - from 
the north and from the east - against Trader's 
Isle capital, but their intentions were 
discovered by the Alphatians and their allies, 
who took countermeasures. Thus, the Thyatian 
fleet attacking from the east and commanded 
by the imperial prince, was faced by the 
combined force of Alfeisle's elves and a half of 
the Alphatian fleet led by Varzathram; in the 
ensuing battle, known as the Clash of the 
Princes (AC 500), both princes met their 
deaths but the Thyatian fleet did not manage 
to penetrate into the Colony Islands' waters 
to carry on its attack on Minrothad; at the same 
time, the other half of the Alphatian fleet, 
together with the Minrothaddan navy, 
defended Minrothad from the fierce assault of 
the Thyatian fleet in the huge Battle of 
Minrothad (AC 500), which saw a very large 
number of vessels employed. After one and a 
half days of maneuvering and naval actions 
which saw the Thyatians generally prevailing, 
the defending fleet - despite heavy losses - 
managed to prevent the Thyatians from 
disembarking and attacking the capital directly. 
When the Thyatian fleet decided to withdraw, 
units of the Minrothaddan navy, joined by 
elven vessels, harassed it, managing to isolate 
a part of the Thyatian convoy and capture it 
in the Battle of the Storm (AC 500), thanks to 
the use of the elves' weather magics 12 . 

The heavy fighting of AC 500 had depleted the 
resource of both sides on the western front; 
the Thyatians had lost many ships in battle and 
had withdrawn to Terentias, while the 
Alphatian supporting fleet had lost its 

12 The Clash of the Princes, the Battle of 
Minrothad, and the Battle of the Storm are the 
three sea battles featured in the 8-miles per hex 
of the Sunlit Sea included in PC3 The Sea 
People and mentioned under note 8, above. 



commander and was in disarray, and the 
native fleets had suffered heavy losses. The 
Alphatian Empire would have liked the war 
in the west to continue, but was not able to 
send additional reinforcements to the Colony 
Islands' trading combine; so, when the 
Minrothaddan and elven allies decided to 
make peace overtures to Thyatis, the 
Alphatian emissaries had to comply. The 
Peace of Crossbones was signed in AC 501 in 
Terentias' capital and put an end to what had 
been known as the "War of the Princes" (AC 
499-501) due to the direct involvement of a 
Thyatian and an Alphatian prince. Thyatis was 
willing to make concessions to the trading 
combine of the Colony Islands, because it 
hoped to commit its whole resources against 
the Alphatians in order to break their 
Norwold campaign and conquer some 
territories on the Isle of Dawn. So the treaty 
was basically a Minrothaddan and elven 
success. The agreement required the 
Thyatians to definitely recognize Trader's Isle 
independence and its membership in the 
Colony Islands' trading combine, to withdraw 
any troop or garrison from the islands, and 
to avoid further interference in the combine's 
internal affairs; on the other hand the allies 
agreed to cease any alliance with the 
Alphatian Empire, proclaim perpetual 
neutrality in the struggle between the two 
empires, and pay a quarter of what was still 
left of indemnity due to Thyatis in a single 
installment, but they also obtained favored 
access to the Thyatian Empire's markets and 
special trading conditions within the 
territories of the empire. 

All in all, the War of the Princes had been a 
costly and hazardous bet on Corser's part, 
but marked an important turning point in the 
combine's trading relations with the two 
major empires of the Known World, as it 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie Histony of ieneNOi aNO MiNnotftat) 




presented the Colony Islands' combine as a 
neutral nation interested only in trade and 
gave the alliance special trading rights in both 
empires - something which would have 
determined the rise of the combine's wealth 
in the very next years. When Hadric Corser 
died in AC 505, the country he had left was 
independent, stable, and confident about its 
future. 

'Clie leueNDi islaNDs 
in ttje 5 tl7 ceNtuirp 

After the disgregation of the Makai Kingdom 
of Ierendi in the late 4 th century AC, the Ierendi 
Islands had undergone a time of troubles, 
during which warfare between Makai tribes 
increased, further augmented by the spread 
of lycanthropy at the beginning of the 5 th 
century AC, which brought many werecreature 
refugees from the Colony Islands to hide in 
the western archipelago, adding to the chaos 
reigning in those islands. 

During the course of the 5 th century AC, 
werehunters from the Colony Islands foraged 
through the Ierendi archipelago, searching for 
surviving lycanthropes, and often coming into 
conflict with local Makai tribes, which resented 
intrusion by such outsiders. 

At the end of the century, the islands were 
again fragmented in a number of small tribal 
kingdoms and hundreds of independent 
tribes. The rise of anything like the kingdom 
of Kapena Ikaika appeared decisively unlikely 
in the near future 13 . On the other hand, pirates 
and slavers who had plagued the Ierendi 
Islands in the past centuries, out of fear of the 
lycanthropic contagion, decreased their 
activities in those islands. 

1 3 

About Kapena Ikaika's kingdom, see The 
History of Ierendi and Minrothad, Part One, in 
"Threshold" issue no. 3. 



'CHE SIXCH CENCURy 

The 5 th century AC had been a time of great 
political and economical transformations in 
the Sea of Dread: it had seen the decline of 
the old trading combine in the Colony 
Islands, only to see it restored again and 
strengthened after some decades of Thyatian 
control; it also had seen the slow expansion 
of the Thyatian trade network westward, 
toward the Serpent Peninsula, virtually 
unchallenged due to the outright trading 
weakness of eventual competitors - like the 
Traladaran states, the Kingdom of Darokin, 
the Five Shires, or the Sindhi realms - and to 
the decline of the Colony Islands' trading 
combine due to the Silver Purge and its 
aftereffects. 

Even if now that the Colony Islands' combine 
had achieved independence and was again 
becoming a relevant trading competitor for 
the Thyatian Empire in the east, the 6 th 
century AC saw the continued enlargement 
of the imperial trading interest to the west, 
with the gradual establishment of political 
influence over the Five Shires, the control 
over the Ierendi archipelago, and the 
expansion of the westernmost trade routes 
to the Green Coast of Davania, south-west of 
Thanegia Island. The Ierendi archipelago was 
at the center of this Thyatian expansion, 
whose effects would result at the end of the 
century in the establishment of the second 
independent island realm of the Sea of Dread. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNt) MiNnotliaO 




'CfjG leueNOi aND CoIonv IsIaNOs buuiNg tfje 5"' aND 6 " CeNtimies 

From AC 456 to II7G ieriENOiaN iNOepcNOeNce ( AC 602) 



1 m*- tiiy atiaN 



o 

nd cEii us 




COLONy ISLANDS 



IEKENDI ISLANDS 



OtHER 



"CliyatiaN Pnote donate of TJiaben's Tsle 
UNbepeNfoeNt coNfe&enatioN siNce AC 4se) 

"CljyatiaN Province of 'CeneNtias 

<aNNGXe& by tfte E-Mpjufc iN AC 446f 

OpEN ISlG (UNtJGR Alf GlfilG CONtROl 
AC 446 -40, iN&epGN&GNt thGRGaf tGtt) 

WatGR aNO woob GlVGN 
ijolbiNGjs iN Alf eisle 



AReas of TJtten TslaNb iNhabiteb 
by tlic AlbiNO people 

Aneas iNhafcriteb by thG Mahai 

Five Semes' cast-off settleMENte 
aNb shipbuilbiNCi facilities 

"CtjyatiaN FnoviNce of the 
WeslenN tslaNbs (AC 5B6 



EIvgn holbiNGjs on tlje MaiN'laNb 
(Callanii aNb Vyalia elaNs) 

"Cennitonies of tlje "CbyatiaN Ewpine 

'Cenrtitonies of thG Kingdom of DaRokiN 

?Cennitonies of thG AtRuaghiN ClaNE 

"Cennitoniefi of the Five Shines 

'CcRnitoRies coNtRolleb by 
the tnalabanaN borvtaiNS 



q I MaiN towNS aisrb cities 
MaiN Naval battles 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"Ci7e Histony of ieneNfci aNO MiNnotliaO 




HY)Q SecoND Rise of 

ttje ColoNy IslaNDs's CoMbiNe 

The new century opened with great prospects 
for the Colony Islands' trading combine. The 
trading allies, thanks to their neutrality 
between Thyatis and Alphatia, managed to 
exploit the trading agreement they had signed 
with the two imperial powers to legally 
penetrate again into both empires' trade 
networks, expanding their trades to Ochalea 
and the Pearl Islands, to the Isle of Dawn, to 
the Alatian Islands, and most of all to the 
Alphatian mainland itself. Thanks to them, 
trade goods coming from those faraway places 
began to be introduced among the higher 
classes of other countries of the Known World 
- the Thyatian markets had been the domain 
of Thyatian merchants, but the latter had 
seemed unable or unwilling to further import 
the eastern trade goods in other countries, so 



that definitely became an area of interest of 
the combine's merchants. 

The rise of sea trade by the Colony Islands' 
trading combine was also due to the intense 
exchange of discoveries and techniques 
which was taking place between the 
combine's members; this allowed the Colony 
Islands' merchants to often be the most 
up-to-date in the field of navigation, ship 
design, shipbuilding techniques, sea and 
weather magic, trading innovations, and so 
on. Moreover, the ability to merge together 
the best results of the Alphatian water magics, 
and of the water elves' weather and sea 
magics, allowed them to usually be one step 
ahead of other countries' merchants. 

The 6* century AC was an age of internal and 
external peace for the Colony Islands, 
something which allowed a positive political 
climate of stability and dedication to the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnothafc 




expansion of settlements and trade. Trader's 
Isle, which had suffered much in terms of 
population loss in the past century, gradually 
recovered from the demographic decline; 
important guilds and activities continued to 
be in the hands of elven families, but the 
economic importance of many human families 
rebuilt their fortunes around the lands' 
agricultural produces and by exploring new 
areas of trade, such as winemaking, 
glassblowing, or spice dealing. With the 
abolition of slavery on the island, many 
landowners turned to rentiers who leased part 
of their lands to free farmers, investing the 
profit in trade; some others, who possessed 
greater sums, invested them in agriculture, 
relying on hired labor and introducing some 
innovative and very productive techniques in 
this field. Urban life flourished as well; 
Minrothad, which counted only some 
thousands of people at the beginning of the 
century, had risen to become the main and 
most populous urban center of the archipelago 
a hundred years after. Some existing towns, 
like Verdon and Seahome, enlarged, while new 
ones sprung up - such as Malfton, built in AC 
520, which became the main town of Open 
Isle. In towns and cities, trade and crafts 
organized themselves around new and old 
guilds, which became very numerous and 
came to exert a relevant level of influence on 
the political stage as well. 

Inter-island trade was also swiftly developing 
in these decades, linking even more the 
various islands' economic activities among 
themselves. Close economic ties thus matured 
and strengthened between the various racial 
communities, bringing to a gradual 
suppression the old enmities and hates - such 
as that between Alphatians and Minrothians, 



that between the humans and the elves due 
to the Silver Purge, and that between the 
halflings and the humans due to the issue of 
slavery. 

This century of prosperity had two important 
effects for the future of the Colony Islands. 
First of all, the growing stronger of economic 
and trading ties between the various islands 
gave birth to factions which advocated greater 
political ties between them as well; this would 
pave the way for the confederation project 
carried on by Gregus Verdier in the 7* 
century AC. Second, ever closer connection 
between peoples who managed the guilds 
and the peoples who controlled politics in 
the islands - often they were the same peoples 

- led to the birth of a quite attached oligarchic 
block, which began to concentrate in its hand 
all the real power - political and economical 

- within the combine. 

The Settlement of the Ierendi Islands 

While the Minrothaddans and their allies, the 
elves of Alfeisle and the halflings of Open Isle, 
were again expanding their trade network in 
the east thanks to their combine's neutrality 
between Alphatia and Thyatis, the Ierendi 
Islands to the west had returned to be a 
backward place inhabited by quarreling Makai 
kingdoms and tribes, with few on interest for 
outsider eyes apart from the most daring 
merchants and pirates, who occasionally 
traded with the natives or raided their villages 
to capture slaves. 

In this troubled age, it was the Hin of the Five 
Shires who first took interest in the islands. 
According to the legend, around AC 500 the 
High Sheriff of the Shires sent adrift a large 
boat carrying about seventy criminals 
sentenced to death; the Sheriff took this 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNt) MiNnotliaO 




unusual means of sentencing to death because 
he unexpectedly discovered that one of the 
criminals sentenced to death was his own 
brother - he hoped that this way his relative 
could have greater chances of survival. 

The boat was left in the high seas without food 
and drink, and many criminals died of 
starvation or at the hand of their kin. In the 
third week of drifting in the high seas, a storm 
carried the boat toward Ierendi Island, where 
the surviving criminals - 23 individuals (11 
humans, 5 elves, 4 halflings, and 3 dwarves), 
that is less than a third of the original number 
- landed. In the following years these 
individuals managed to get along, established 
a community at the mouth of the Ierendi River, 
and made friendly contact with the local Makai 
natives. 

Time passed and the former criminals' 
settlement became a flourishing town which, 
some years later, attracted the greedy eyes of 
the Five Shires again. But an expedition sent 
by the Hin to take control of the town was 
decisively defeated by the alliance between the 
criminals and the natives, and the Shires 
renounced any claim on Ierendi Island from 
then on 14 . 

Thyatian Influence in the West 

As can be expected, the historical truth is quite 
far from the Ierendians' legends about the 
founding of their island nation. In fact, it was 
due to the influence and interference of the 
Five Shires and of the Thyatian Empire that 
the Ierendian history entered a new phase. 

The 6* century AC was an age of renewal, 
change, and internal conflict for the Thyatian 
Empire, whose struggle against the rival 



14 This is the legend of Ierendi's foundation as 
told in GAZ4, pages 3-4. 



Alphatian Empire entered a new phase from 
AC 500, since the beginning of the wars to 
control the Alasiyan colonies, wars which 
later transferred to the Isle of Dawn. It was 
also an age in which Thyatian influence was 
felt through many countries to the west of 
the empire, including the Colony Islands 
(despite the loss of its protectorate over the 
archipelago, Thyatian influence was still quite 
strong there), the southern Traladaran 
domains, and even the Five Shires, where the 
Thyatians had forced the High Sheriff to come 
to terms and open trade with imperial 
merchants after a failed attempt by the Hin 
to close their towns to outside traders 
following the issue of Minrothian halfling 
slave trade 15 . Thanks to the control the 
empire exercised over the Five Shires and 
Ierendi Islands area, Thyatian merchants 
began to venture abroad, opening trade 
routes with the Sindhi ports of the Great 
Waste, with Yavi towns on the coasts of the 
Serpent Peninsula, and ultimately with the 
Green Coast in Davania; Thyatian 
merchantmen sailed inshore and brought 
back the luxuries of those lands, in particular 
cocoa, exotic slaves, and local spices 16 . 



1 5 

According to GAZ4, page 4, the Five Shires 
were "at this time under political influence of 
Thyatis". I tied this statement with the mention 
of a "High Sheriff" ruling the Shires in the 6 th 
century AC, found in GAZ4, page 3. This story 
assumes that after the Hin had suffered from 
slaver raids in the preceding century, they 
decided to close their borders to sea trade, but 
the government of the Shires - led by a "High 
Sheriff" in this age - had to come to terms 
when the Thyatian Empire forced him to reopen 
trade with imperial merchants (think of the 
trade relationship between the US and Japan 
or between the United Kingdom and China in 
the 19 th century). 
16 See note 8, above. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e Histony of leneNOi aNt) MiNnothafc 




The Thyatians were also backing the High 
Sheriffs domain over the Five Shires, but his 
rule was facing strong opposition from various 
directions, in particular from local Hin 
merchants whose businesses were declining 
due to Thyatian trading influence over the 
country. Smuggling became a sort of national 
sport of the Hin who tried to bypass trading 
restrictions imposed by the government. The 
High Sheriff responded to these violations with 
an increasing level of repression, backed by 
the Thyatians. In order to avoid an escalation 
of discontent from his subjects, transgressors 
were exiled to the Ierendi Islands. 




Penal Colony 



The Shires' and Thyatis' Penal Colonies 

Thus, from AC 550 to AC 570 an increasing 
number of condemned halflings was exiled 
to the islands of Elegy, Fletcher, Alcove, and 
Safari. Sometimes the exiles were enslaved 
or killed by the Makai, but most often they 
were welcomed and developed friendly 
relations with the natives. As the number of 
condemned halflings increased, it was not 
long before small Hin settlements began to 
grow here and there on the coasts. With the 
passing of years, these exiles - using the Makai 
canoes - even began to trade with the Five 
Shires, violating trade restrictions, and to 
harass Thyatian merchantmen crossing 
nearby waters. 

The High Sheriff, urged at by the Thyatian 
Empire, tried to establish control over these 
settlements, sending small detachments of 
troops and governors to exercise authority 
over the cast-offs; most of these settlements 
complied and were subdued, but one on 
Fletcher Island resisted. The High Sheriff 
mounted an expedition against this exiles" 
settlement in AC 568, but the attack was 
repelled by the cast-offs, helped by native 
Makai tribesmen; a couple of other villages 
rebelled against the occupying Hin forces, 
one even killing the governor sent by the 
Shires 17 . 

The victory of the cast-offs spurred Thyatis to 
direct action: if the High Sheriff was unable 
to subdue the cast-offs, then they could have 
endangered the Thyatian trade routes which 
led to the Serpent Peninsula and to Davania. 
When a new settlement was established on 
the mouth of the Ierendi River by a large 

17 

I have tried to include some elements of 
Ierendi's foundation legend included here; in 
my opinion the legend is in fact too recent 
(four centuries) to be totally fictitious. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie Histouy of leneNOi aNO MiNitottiaC) 




number of cast-offs coming from the other 
islands in AC 570 - an event which marked the 
historical foundation of Ierendi town - the 
Thyatians decided it was time to act, even if in 
a subtle way. 

In those years the empire itself was 
experiencing an increase in the number of 
prisoners, in particular due to the religious 
and social unrest still raging within its borders. 
In AC 571, the empire decided to lessen 
tensions in mainland jails by founding colonies 
of convicts on the Ierendi Islands, thus using 
the condemned individuals to exert control 
over the Ierendi archipelago. Unlike what the 
High Sheriff had done, the Thyatian program 
for the Ierendi Islands was carried out 
rigorously and rationally: convicts were 
divided in small controllable groups, 
accompanied by small garrisons, and put 
under the supervision of imperial officers. The 
prisoners had to build infrastructures - a 
manor house or mansion, generally, and 
homes for themselves - and to plow the land, 
planting, farming, and working in the 
plantations which were contemporaneously 
established. Plots of land were then sold to 
interested landowners, investors, and rich 
people in Thyatis 18 . 

These "penal colonies" were established at 
first on the five islands where the cast-offs from 
the Shires had settled. Thyatis asked the High 
Sheriff beforehand to subdue the openly 
rebellious settlements, lending him the help 
he needed to ensure success. Within AC 571, 
all unrest by the Hin cast-offs was quelled; the 
empire established its own colonies on the 

1 8 

This is akin to what happened in Australia 
and elsewhere in the real world. This version 
expands and modifies the reasons behind 
Thyatian colonization of the Ierendi Islands 
found in History of the Thyatian People (by J. 
Ruhland). 



islands, in order to watch closely the former 
cast-off settlements, whose possession was 
left to the Five Shires. 

Interest and Tensions in the Ierendi 
Islands Grow 

The next few years saw a few interesting 
developments which would prove 
instrumental for the future of the archipelago. 
The Five Shires government never imposed 
strict control over the settlements inhabited 
by the halfling cast-offs; the High Sheriff was 
content to send an officer or two there with 
some troops, but tried not to further raise 
tensions with the cast-offs and his own 
subjects, rather handling political prisoners 
to the Thyatians than sending them among 
the cast-offs. 

At the same time, the government of Shireton 
- with the Thyatians complying - decided to 
lessen restrictions over trade in order to 
decrease internal opposition to the High 
Sheriffs rule and to his alliance with Thyatis, 
carried out by the anti-centralist and liberal 
faction of the Shires' middle classes. This fact 
also led to the gradual rise of the Hin sea 
trade, which for the moment was active 
within the boundaries dictated by the High 
Sheriffs rule. 

The rise of the Hin sea trade was also due to 
development of an unusually intense 
shipbuilding activity in the cast-off 
settlements of the Ierendi Islands. The 
inhabitants used the plentiful local timber 
resources to build small, sturdy, round ships 
which mixed the Hin shipbuilding techniques 
with the Makai's canoeing and traditional ship 
design. At first these boats were built and sold 
on individual basis to single merchants, but 
within a few years the government of the 
Shires built shipbuilding facilities in the most 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e Histony of leneNOi aNt) MiNnotliaO 




important of the cast-off settlements, and since 
AC 575 these were used as naval bases year- 
round, becoming in a short time the main 
shipbuilding sites of the Five Shires 19 . The High 
Sheriffs government was not interested in 
creating a competitive navy for the Shires and 
preferred to sell the ships to selected Hin 
merchants in order to bring more money in 
his coffers. Thus, in the turn of a few years, 
the halflings' "wallowing turtles" - as human 
sailors called the small ships of the Hin - began 
a common sight in the Ierendi waters and 
along the Shire Coast. 

Worse for the Thyatians, the loosening of trade 
restrictions and the rise of the halflings' 
shipbuilding craft were reinforcing the faction 
which, inside the Shires, opposed the High 
Sheriffs rule. After AC 580, the High Sheriff 
experienced growing unrest at home by the 
opposers of his pro-Thyatian and centralist 
policy, mostly made up of middle-class 
merchants and craftsmen tired of trade 
restrictions imposed by the agreements with 
Thyatis. At the same time the halfling 
merchants began trading in defiance of 
restrictions and of agreements between the 
High Sheriff and Thyatis, often resorting to 
smuggling and even piracy. With the High 
Sheriffs government unable to track these 
trespassers down, the Thyatians had to step 
in often, capturing and sentencing the 
criminals. This did not do anything but raise 
the anti-Thyatian feeling of many Hin. In the 
following years, the former cast-off settlements 

1 9 

See GAZ8, Dungeon Master's Booklet, page 
8. Apart from some sparse details in the 
timeline, GAZ8 is lacking any relevant historical 
information about the Shires after BC 500; I 
think there is room to expand the Shires' history 

- a country not subject to any change for a 
thousand and a half years is not very believable 

- as I have tried to do with the story of the High 
Sheriff mentioned in this part of the article. 



(and the wilderness around them) in the 
Ierendi Islands became the gathering places 
for underground opposers to the High 
Sheriffs rule over the Shires, but also shelters 
safe enough for smugglers, pirates, and 
political refugees. 

At the same time, Thyatian interest in the 
Ierendi Islands was spurred as well, well 
beyond the need to keep control over trade 
routes to the Serpent Peninsula and Davania. 
In the same years in which the halfling sea 
trade began to flourish and the former cast-off 
settlements on the islands were becoming 
hotbeds of opposition to the High Sheriffs 
rule, the Thyatians discovered deposits of 
precious metals (gold and platinum) in the 
archipelago, as well as plentiful underwater 
sources of gemstones. Accordingly, many 
more upper class speculators from Thyatis 
showed interest in buying properties - lands 
and mines - on the islands, but their arrival 
in many cases escalated the conflict with the 
native Makai people, who resisted what they 
began to see as a full-fledged invasion of their 
ancestral lands. In the next few years, 
powerful individuals with interests in the 
islands obtained from the Thyatian 
government further involvement of the 
imperial military machine and administration 
in the management, control, and conquest 
of the islands. 

This was further eased by the coup staged by 
the stepson of the current Thyatian emperor, 
who killed his predecessor. The new emperor 
managed to obtain the support of the Senate 
through bribes, and enacted a campaign of 
terror to suppress all political opposers to 
his rule; many of those condemned persons 
were sent to the Ierendi Islands as convicts. 
Thus, in the following years, the islands saw 
an influx of people from Thyatis, but 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"C17G Histony of leneNOi aNt) MiNnotftaO 




differently from the past these were not only 
common criminals, but began to include 
people of higher social status - senators, 
noblemen, wealthy merchants - who had fallen 
on the wrong side of the struggle over the 
imperial throne. As we will see, their presence 
will have decisive consequences for the future 
of the archipelago. 

riie TliyatiaN CoNQuest 
of leueNbi 

Again, the tense situation in the Shires had 
repercussions on the Ierendi archipelago. In 
AC 585, growing discontent of the middle class 
of many towns against the rule of the High 
Sheriff, which in the last years had become 
more corrupt and authoritarian than ever, 
sparked an armed uprising in the streets of 
Shireton, which forced the High Sheriff to 
leave the town; within few days, the Shires 
were locked in a bitter civil war which saw the 
few supporters of the High Sheriff - mostly 
noble clan leaders and landowners - fighting 
the rebels, who had roots in the merchant 
classes and were strong in the coastal towns 
and in the former cast-off colonies established 
in the Ierendi archipelago. 

The uprising could not happen at a worse time 
for Thyatis: the strength of the imperial fleet 
had declined in the last years due to internal 
troubles in the empire, giving way to the 
penetration of Northman and Alphatian raiders 
in the Western Sea of Dawn; also, war against 
the Alphatian Empire broke out in the Alasiyan 
colonies to the north, as well as on the Isle of 
Dawn to the east, locking Thyatian forces on 
many fronts at the same time. 

The Thyatians knew the High Sheriff was 
doomed unless the empire stepped in to aid 
him consistently, but now it was impossible 
to send a military expedition to the Shires. 



Nevertheless, Thyatis could not afford to risk 
losing control over the Ierendi Islands due 
to the hostile presence of a differently- 
oriented Hin realm to the north. Moreover, 
the Thyatian government had already begun 
to commission ships - which were sold to the 
empire at very favourable prices - to the 
Shires' shipbuilding facilities in the Ierendi 
Islands, and intended to increase those 
commissions in order to cope with losses in 
the war against Alphatia; now the prospect 
of losing this shipbuilding resource due to 
the fall of the High Sheriff was alarming for 
the Thyatian performance in the ongoing war. 

Thus, the Thyatian emperor decided to rely 
on the treachery his people was famous for. 
Thyatian emissaries secretly contacted the 
rebel Hin leaders, signing an agreement with 
them: Thyatis agreed not to help the High 
Sheriff in his struggle to hold his sway over 
the Shires - thus allowing the rebels to move 
forces from the islands to the mainland - 
while the rebels agreed to keep out of the 
trade routes toward the Serpent Peninsula 
and Davania; both parties agreed to recognize 
the current division of the Ierendi lands 
between Thyatis and the Shires, but no 
agreement was reached over the continuation 
of Thyatian ship commissions to the 
shipbuilding facilities in the islands. 

But that did not matter, as for the Thyatians 
the agreement was only a decoy. In AC 586, 
as most of the rebel forces left the island 
colonies to help defeat the High Sheriff in the 
mainland, three Thyatian naval expeditions 
quickly and suddenly attacked by surprise the 
few halfling defenders left in the islands and 
defeated them in the three battles known as 
the Battle of Ierendi, the War of Fletcher, and 
the Battle of the Trap, taking control of the 
halflings' shipbuilding facilities and towns on 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotftaO 




the islands 20 . The empire proclaimed the 
whole ten islands of the Ierendi archipelago 
a province of Thyatis, sending more troops 
and a governor to consolidate control over 
them. Construction of ships to replenish the 
imperial fleet was immediately started in the 
former Hin shipbuilding facilities on the 
islands. 

The Hin rebels were shocked by the Thyatian 
surprise attack, but despite protesting against 
the Thyatian emissaries they were too engaged 
in their civil war to try to react directly. In the 
islands, however, some halfling clans - such as 
the Caulker and the Longkeel clans 21 - 
managed to flee in the interior swamps, 
beginning from there a small-scale guerrilla 
war against the Thyatian occupants. Neither 
did Thyatian treachery go unopposed on the 
sea, where many halfling sea merchants went 
pirate and began harassing Thyatian trade 

2 0 

These three battles are featured on the 8- 
miles per hex map of the Sunlit Sea included in 
PC3 The Sea People, where they are also 
marked as "underwater battles". In fact, the 
triton Kingdom of Undersea - which at that time 
also controlled most of the underwater lands 
stretching around the Ierendi Islands - was 
worrying about the recklessness of the Ierendian 
halfling, who had already made some forays into 
the local merrows' sacred underwater sites in 
order to get precious pearls and other resources 
from the bottom of the sea. Foreshadowing a 
worsening of this behavior should the halflings 
improve their presence in the Ierendi Islands, 
the tritons struck a deal with the Thyatian 
Empire, agreeing to send some triton warriors to 
help Thyatis seize the halfling settlements in the 
Ierendi Islands in exchange for the pledge to 
avoid trespassing into the merrows' sacred 
places. Thus, the three battles saw also the 
involvement of small contingents of triton 
warriors on the Thyatian side. 

2 1 

About these clans, see G. Agosta's Ierendian 
Government and Aristocracy, in "Threshold" 
issue no. 3. 



routes and isolated ships crossing this sea 
region. Anyway, getting a little aid from the 
Kingdom of Darokin, the rebels were able to 
defeat the High Sheriff later in AC 586; a 
federal and decentralized government was 
established, and the new Shires took position 
against Thyatis in international relations 
(even if this opposition did not take official 
forms, besides piracy against Thyatian 
shipping which was nevertheless denied by 
the Shires' new government). 

The Thyatian Rule in the Archipelago 

The Thyatian domain over the Ierendi Islands 
turned out to be harsher than even the local 
convicts thought it to be. The influx of 
prisoners and convicts from Thyatis 
continued, as the throne carried on its 
campaign to suppress any opposition at 
home. Political prisoners and many more 
common criminals ended up in the Ierendi 
convict settlements, where their labor was 
put to use by local plantation- and mine- 
owners; many also ended up working in the 
shipbuilding facilities seized from the 
halflings, where - under the overseeing of 
Thyatian shipwrights - they built ships for 
the Thyatian imperial navy. 

The living conditions of the convicts became 
harder as, in the course of the years, the 
Thyatian crown resolved to extract as many 
resources as possible from the archipelago. 
Thyatian penetration in the interior, which 
aimed at seizing the most profitable mining 
sites and at deforesting areas to convert them 
to farming lands. This indiscriminate invasion 
of the Makai native lands spurred conflicts 
between the Thyatian military and some local 
tribes in the islands of Safari, Utter, and 
Alcove - resistance of the Makai to the 
Thyatian domain was futile and quickly 
crushed, but rebellious tribes had to be 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotliaO 




tracked down in the wilderness and in 
impervious territory, so these "wars" became 
long series of skirmishes which did nothing 
but exasperate the conflict, forcing the empire 
to send more troops and its administrators in 
the islands to adopt harsher methods to put 
down unrest and discontent. 

An especially vicious guerrilla war was fought 
intermittently over the course of those years 
in the interior lands of Ierendi Island, where 
some Makai tribes had been joined by halfling 
freedom fighters from clans who had escaped 
the former cast-off colonies in order to avoid 
submitting to Thyatian rule, such as the 
Caulker and Longkeel clans. This contributed 
to make the interior of the island insecure and 
forced caravans carrying loads of precious 
metals, plantation products, and timber to 
travel under heavy military escort. 

As if this was not enough, the emperor of that 
time, a corrupt and unprincipled man, began 
cutting corners on the funding destined to the 
Ierendian colonies and garrisons, diverting 
them into the hands of his cronies and 
relatives. As a result, the situation in the 
Ierendi province grew gradually worse. 

In the course of the thirteen years of Thyatian 
dominion, the imperial garrisons in the 
archipelago became unusually brutal and 
callous in their treatment of the native and 
convict populations. The corruption of the 
imperial bureaucracy concurred to the picture 
of an oppressive and ruthless rule under 
which, in the subjects' eyes, no decent life was 
ever possible. 

Anyway, the Thyatian owners of plantations 
and mines in the islands - most of which did 
not live there and were thus not exposed to 
the dangers of wilderness guerrilla and native 
hostility - were happy to receive high profits 



from their products, and had only to ask the 
throne for additional troops and funds to 
quell occasional disorders and unrest. The 
throne was satisfied as well, as it received a 
share from every profit made on goods 
extracted or produced in the archipelago, 
and was even able to further enrich itself by 
diverting in its pockets part of the money 
destined to the shipbuilding program which 
was taking place in the Ierendi yards. 

Thyatians who had invested in trading 
enterprises toward the Serpent Peninsula and 
Davania, however, began to worry about the 
preservation of those trade routes, because 
they saw the Ierendian situation as 
increasingly unstable. Piracy against Thyatian 
shipping - carried on mostly by the Hin of the 
Five Shires, and occasionally also by the 
Minrothaddans - was on the rise, and the 
imperial navy was not always able to protect 
Thyatian merchant shipping and to track 
down the pirates. But the throne and the 
Senate, despite warnings by some of the wiser 
Thyatian politicians, were induced by bribes 
to carry on the interests of powerful 
potentates, such as that represented by slave 
traders. Thus, instead of spending funds to 
fight piracy and improve Thyatian control of 
western trade routes, the empire mounted 
an ill fated military expedition - led by 
General Bronicus Galbanus - against the 
Atruaghin peoples of the Children of the 
Turtle and of the Tiger (AC 595-598), which 
led to the capture of many slaves brought to 
the Thyatian markets, but which was 
ultimately repelled and did not bring any 
lasting territorial gain to the empire 22 . 



2 2 

The idea of a Thyatian expedition against 
the Atruaghin Clans was borrowed from 
Atruaghin Clans Revised (by J.W. Biles). 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"C17G Histony of leneNOi aNt) MiNnotftaO 




The Rebellion Breaks Out 

Situation in the archipelago grew tenser 
toward the end of the 7 th century AC. The 
failure of the Thyatian expedition against the 
Atruaghin Clans, rising in pirate activity in the 
Ierendi waters, mismanagement, corruption, 
and brutality by imperial bureaucracy and 
military in the Ierendi Islands, growing unrest 
in Makai and convict population in the ten 
islands - all these elements were taken into 
account by those who opposed the Thyatian 
rule - halfling guerrilla leaders and escaped 
prisoners, Makai tribal chiefs, pirate captains, 
and not a few Thyatian political prisoners and 
former senators or noblemen; slowly their 
interest in ousting the Thyatian presence from 
the archipelago intertwined together and they 
started to plan a coordinated uprising against 
the imperial rule. 

The old enemy of Thyatis, the Alphatian 
Empire, did not fail to notice the troubles 
which the rival was experiencing in the west, 
either. Thus, another war between the two 
empires started in AC 598; the first skirmishes 
took place in Alasiya and on the Isle of Dawn, 
but escalated into a full war in AC 600, when 
the Thyatian navy was severely defeated by the 
Alphatian fleet, which had enlisted the aid of 
Ostlander longships, at the northern end of 
the Western Sea of Dawn. This defeat opened 
the Thyatian mainland to sea raids by the 
Alphatian and Ostlander warships, and 
threatened supply lines to the troops on the 
Isle of Dawn 23 . 

The Thyatian defeat was the signal the 
resistance movement in Ierendi was waiting 
for to spark the rebellion. As news of the naval 
disaster reached the archipelago, guerrilla 

2 3 

The international picture here follows more 
or less, History of the Thyatian People (by J. 
Ruhland). 



warriors led by the Caluker and Longkeel 
halfling clans and aided by Makai warriors 
launched an attack against one of the most 
crowded prison camps of Ierendi Island, 
inside which a prisoner uprising broke out 
at the same time. The uprising inside the 
camp was planned and led by a clever and 
brutal former Hattian pirate called Mad 
Creeg 24 , who had earned a certain degree of 
popularity among the prisoners due to his 
daring piratical actions before his capture, 
and to a daring, albeit failed, attempt at 
evasion. The coordinated attack and uprising 
was successful and, as a result, a small army 
of former prisoners, halfling guerrilla 
warriors, and Makai fighters gathered around 
Mad Creeg. In the next two weeks, uprising 
broke out in other places on the islands as 
well. 

The archipelago's situation and Thyatis' 
problems were not a secret for Creeg. During 
his years as a prisoner in the Ierendi Islands, 
he had been transferred various times from 
one area to another, and during his stays in 
this or that area he had made contacts with 
charismatic or influential characters among 
the prisoners, and with corrupt garrison and 
administration officers. He knew that the 
empire's first interest was the defense against 
Alphatia, and also knew the vulnerability of 
the local imperial bureaucracy to bribes. 

After the initial uprising, Creeg managed to 
get money from interested parties in the Five 
Shires, Minrothad, and Darokin to further his 
attempt to free the islands from the Thyatian 
control. The former pirate used the money 

24 

The Hattian origin of Mad Creeg was 
devised in G. Agosta's Ierendian Government 
and Aristocracy, in "Threshold" issue no. 3. For 
a different take about the pirate leader's 
background, see The Dynasties of Thyatis (by 
J. Mishler). 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e Histony of leneNOi aNt) MiNnotftao 




to bribe garrison commanders and officers 
into inaction, desertion, or leaving the islands, 
and the imperial bureaucrats into slowing and 
thwarting the reaction of the empire to the 
uprising. As the rebellion widened, charismatic 
prisoners who Creeg had become friends with 
during the past years decided to fight under 
his banner. Pirates hiding in the nearby waters 
flocked under his command, assaulting 
Thyatian ships or raiding plantations, mines, 
and camps in order to free other prisoners. 
Many Makai tribes, who had been subject to 
Thyatian oppression or who had seen nearby 
tribes dispossessed of lands and resources, 
were convinced that Creeg was a better choice 
than the Thyatians and threw their lot in with 
him. 

All this, coupled with the Thyatian 
government's choice to give precedence to the 
war against Alphatia rather than to the quelling 
of the Ierendi rebellion, made possible a swift 
success of Mad Creeg's ragtag supporters. In 
a few months he had seized control the Ierendi 
Island, where the main imperial assets were 
located; within a year, his tactical mind and 
Thyatian inability to get the upper hand against 
Alphatia in the east allowed his forces to take 
one island after another. In AC 601, the 
rebellion led by Mad Creed had completely 
overturned the Thyatian provincial 
government, and the few imperial troops - left 
without aid from the mainland - had been at 
last recalled to Thyatis. This rapid success was 
also possible due to the fact that some of the 
prisoners who chose to help him were former 
Thyatian army officers or noblemen or 
functionaries, and had had experience in army, 
fleet, and administration management; one of 
these, for example, was Tiberius Alexander, a 



former senator who helped put together a 
fleet for Creeg 25 . 

The Proclamation of 
the Kingdom of Ierendi 

Creeg established his residence in Ierendi 
town. At the beginning of AC 602, he gathered 
there the various leaders who had supported 
his rebellion - prisoner leaders, halfling 
clanheads, Makai tribal chiefs, pirate captains, 
officers who had deserted from the Thyatian 
army, Thyatian bureaucrats who had been 
promised an appointment in the new 
government - in order to communicate to 
them his idea to make the archipelago a 
kingdom united under one monarch with 
strong authority in order to better resist 
future attempts by Thyatis to retake the 
islands. The flock of his supporters, without 
surprise from him, enthusiastically agreed 
and proclaimed him as the first King of 
Ierendi. Thus, the Kingdom of Ierendi, 
claiming all the ten islands - some of which 
were still uninhabited (White and Honor 
islands) - was born. 

Thyatis was not any nearer to seeing the end 
of its conflict against Alphatia, and had no 
resources to spare for an attempt to retake 
the archipelago. In order to avoid exposing 
the empire's western side to attacks by Mad 
Creeg's pirate fleet, the Thyatian government 
chose to sign a ten-year truce with the 
newly-proclaimed King of Ierendi in AC 602, 
temporarily recognizing his possession of the 
archipelago but not his royal title in exchange 
for abstention on Creeg's part to launch 
pirate attacks against Thyatis. This truce 

25 

The character of Tiberius Alexander was 
created by G. Agosta (see Ierendian 
Government and Aristocracy, in "Threshold" 
issue no. 3, pages 45-46). 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CI7G Histony of leneNOi aNt) Miiwotliat) 




would have actually been renewed for many 
years until AC 643. 

King Creeg effectively complied with the truce, 
forbidding his pirates any raid against Thyatian 
territory or any attack on Thyatian ships in 
Thyatian waters. But this excluded, from his 
point of view, attacks on Thyatian ships in 
Ierendian and nearby waters. Thus the result 
of the truce for Thyatis was the sudden 
severing of the empire's trade routes toward 



the Serpent Peninsula and Davania, which 
passed through Ierendian and Hin waters 
made now impassable due to piratical activity. 
In order to preserve access to the Green 
Coast's markets, the empire had to find 
another sea route,which this time went from 
Ochalea to the Serpent Peninsula through 
the Davanian Shallows - a route which would 
have revealed itself filled with unforeseen 
dangers in the future. 



CALL FOR CONTRIBUTIONS 



The Threshold editorial team invites all fans 
of the Mystara setting to submit 
contributions to the seventh issue of the 
magazine. 

We are looking especially for contribution 
fitting the theme of that issue - The Hollow 
World. 

Proposal Deadline: August 31st, 2014 
Manuscript Deadline: October 31st, 2014 

Threshold accepts (and invites) the 
submission of extended or revised versions 
of works having appeared on The Piazza or 
the Vaults of Pandius. 

Contributions may include, but are not 
limited to, articles (short stories, short 
adventure modules, NPCs, historical 
treatises and timelines, geographical entries, 
new monsters and monster ecologies, etc.) 
and illustrations (portraits, maps, heraldry, 
illustrations, etc.) 



The Threshold editorial team strives for 
edition neutrality, but edition specific 
articles (e.g., conversions) are also 
accepted. 

Statistics for new monsters and NPCs may 
be included in articles (e.g., adventure 
modules, new monsters or NPCs) in any 
version of Dungeons & Dragons. The 
editorial team also offers help in providing 
conversions to some specific rules set 
(including BECMI/RC, 2nd Edition, 3rd 
edition/Pathfinder). However, they should 
be limited to the minimum ~ for most 
NPCs, it is sufficient to mention class, 
level, and alignment. For important NPCs, 
a one or two line stat block could be 
included. 

See inside back cover for submission 
guidelines. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Banaiwa islaNt) Map 





FROM 

'CHE VAULCS 
OF PANDIUS 



A Truly Dreadful Destination: 

rar bi Mail 




A map by Andrew Theisen (Cthulhudrew ) 





| Map of Ran an n a IslaNt 
inaseo on lsiaNOs of tije sea of 
/Dtieao, Dy siMONe Neni aNO 
\nattattNa isiaNO Dy tjeoff tjaNOctt 

scale i ijgx = s Miles 



Too late for inclusion in our last issue to 
accompany Geoff Gander's article on 
Bararna Island, but presented here as a 
bonus, we present a map of that "truly 
dreadful destination" 

The Editors 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Aovice f on tnaOens in tr;e Sea of Dneao 





FROM 

'CHE VAUIXS 
OF PANDIUS 



A conversation (actually a monologue) 
between senior Captain Maddom 
Eneterias and junior Captain Polin 
Jalenta at the "Linton Navigators' 
Restplace ', Port Tenobar, AC 1000. 



My dear Polin, I see the House has sent you to 
take over the command of the Armstead, my 
beloved ship. It is a special ship, you know: the 
fastest blue-water large sailing ship of the whole 
fleet. 

I had been a successful merchant in my early 
career so I managed to persuade Linton House 1 
to build her following the instructions of a sage 
from our odd village of Armstead. How this 
ever-smiling guy from the northern side of the 
Cruth Mountains knew how to build ships is out 
of my knowledge, but he really knew what he 
was doing. 

I crossed most of the Sea of Dread with this ship 
for almost twenty monsoons, and would have 
done it for twenty monsoons more, if only all 
the heads of that hydra would have been of the 
same opinion. 

But now, back to business. Polin, I read here 
you never went farther than Thyatis and Jahore, 
your travelling being mostly confined to the 
Sunlit Sea. Typical. Remember that any real 
seamen, really wishing to see if the world ends 
at the horizon cannot miss to face the 




by Michele "LoZompatore" C. 

maelstroms lingering in the misty center of the 
Abyss. 

Anyway, they told me you are one of the most 
experienced captains of the House so - before 
you decide to end up your career enlisting in 
that Minrothad Navy which apparently is all the 
rage among you rookies - the House wants you 
to run a profitable trade across the Sea of 
Dread, just like I did until a mere season ago. 

You are going to assume command of my ship 
and my crew, so I'd better to give you a crash 
course on what you'll face on - and in - the high 

seas. 

What I'm going to tell you is a mix of what I saw 
with my eyes and what I read in the rare books 
I seldom happened to trade - by the way, insure 
you are always provided with some of those 
convoluted scrolls for reading languages: they 
are an invaluable tool for your new job. 

Oh, and be careful: everything you are going 
to hear from me by no means will exhaust the 
list of perils and opportunities you may find in 
the terrible, charming waters just south of here. 

Of course, if you feel the need to get more 
nerdy details on the best way to distinguish 
between an hungry kraken and a clamped 
school of goby fishes just have a stop at Newkirk 
High 2 and try to talk with some of the senior 
professors - provided they can spare some time 
for you, of course. On my part, I prefer direct 
experience. 



From GAZ11 "The Republic of Darokin" by From a table in TM2 "Eastern Countries 

Scott Haring. Linton House is the merchant Trail Map" game accessory. It is a university 

house of Darokin most specialized in sea trade. specialized in sea exploration. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



AOvice f on tnaOens iN tfte Sea of Dneat) 




'Cuafce Routes in ttje Sea of Dueab 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AOvice f on tnaOens in tfte Sea of Dneat) 




THE BASICS OF TRADE IN 
THE SEA OF DREAD 

Let's start with a few words about your job: 
the Sea of Dread is roughly round, just like a 
huge pool, with a single metropolis on its 
northeastern side - Thyatis City - which will 
buy everything you are going to sell her, and 
about a dozen of cities scattered around the 
pool's perimeter acting as trade hubs to the 
inland territories or to the nearby seas. Such 
"Gate Cities" will both buy and sell everything 
they can get their hands on. 

The Sea itself is not an easy place: it is filled 
with dangers and obstacles of all sorts - from 
bad weather to pirates and monsters - and it 
is crossed by three fierce competitors, namely 
traders from Minrothad, Cathos and 
Kastelios. 

From your perspective the best way to make 
a profit is to buy high-valuable, lightweight, 
non-bulky goods in faraway places and then 
sell them in Thyatis City or in any of the gate 
cities, always taking the safest and fastest route 
and selling at lower prices than your 
competitors. 

If the goods you sell are rare you may expect 
to charge a 5% markup for every 50 miles of 
travelling, a fare that you could easily double 
if the goods are unique to a particular area. 

It is really that simple, at least in principle. 

Fiust choice Mauketable qooDs 

The best marketable goods you should look 
for are end-products such as jewels, art 
objects, rare books, fine dresses - especially 
if made of precious material such as silk or 
furs - superior weapons and armors and - 
of course - magic objects. Most of these goods 



require a pretty large economy in order to 
be produced, so they are usually found in 
large cities and extensive ruin structures. 

About ruins: you might try to hire some 
adventurers to complement you and your 
best crewmen and explore the ancient ruins 
yourself but it is far safer, and ultimately more 
rewarding, to attend to your business and to 
buy the same findings by the same 
adventurers once they get back to civilization: 
prices are higher and you may have to hire 
some more experts in magic and lore to study 
the findings but, in general, this approach is 
much cheaper than having to repair a 
damaged ship and hiring new crewmen. 




SecoND choice MauKetable 
qooDs 

On a second choice you should look for 
precious raw materials such as gems and 
semi-precious stones like amber, corals 
and pearls. Ivory, tea, coffee, dried spices 
and dyes are good choices as well, while you 
should trade furs only if you are sure they 
do not spoil during the trip. The same is true 
about magical ingredients, especially if they 
come from recently killed monsters: always 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Map of 
Mauketable 
qooDs in trje 
sea of Dueab 



ggl|n||3i]R^\ 
00 EH EE 



00000 
00000., 

0 v - 

<S 0HH0E3 

,_-, 0ElElpCD 

000 00 T^lf-H- 

00 1-1 1-1 ^000 
Elk 





Legend 

Thyatls City (buys everything) 
] Gate City (buys everything it does not sell) 
Goods for sale: 



|T| Magic Objects 
|T| Jewels 
0 Rare Books 
[T| Fine Armours 
[3 Art Objects 

[si Rare Fur/Skin/Leather Coats 
|T| Gems 

[71 Magical Ingredients 
|T| Rare furs 
[To] Pearls 

F1 Ivory (including cetaceans) 

[12] Semiprecious Stones 

[13] Amber 

M Dyes 

|is| spices 

|is| coffee 

[Tt] Tea 

Fb| Corals 

FH Monsters (alive) 

Ep| Exotic Animals (alive) 

[21] Glassware 

[32! Porcelains 



HH Exotic Food 

[^1 Liqueurs 

[| Rare Wine 

0 Silk 

[27] Tobacco 

Unique goods 

(sold only in a single place}: 

|T| Dwarvish Armours 

|T| Belcadiz Steel Weapons and Armors 

[Tl Hammer's Guild Weapons 

[4] Elsan Shell Weapons and Armors 

[T| Alphatian Ghost Paintings 

[7] Alphatian Living Dioramas 

fT| lerendian Paintings 

[7] Nemiston Carved Woodworks 

PH Glantrian Paintings 

|To1 Nouvelle Averoigne Fur Dresses 

fiT] Dwarvish Carved Gems 

[Til Elvish Carved Gems 

Alphatian La que 

|i4| Alphatian zzonga wu 

ITs] Bergdhoven Perfumes 



ps] Ethengarian Light War Horses 

FTF| Darokinlan blown glassware 

[T&1 Bear Clan Pottery 

E3 Krondahar Youghurt 

US Yavdlom Coconuts 

[21] Morlay Malinbois Wines 

[22] Alphatian Spider Silk 

[23] Krondahar Silk 

[gdl Belcadiz Black Laces 

|zs| Bear Clan Cotton Clothes 

fie] Vyonnes Fine Dresses 

|i7| Alasyian Carpets 

|jb| Darokinian Silk Ropes 

jael Hahling Tobacco 

[aoj Alphatian Fireworks 

[31] Glantrian Fireworks 

I32I Elvish "Empire Style" Furniture 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Aovice f on tnaoens in tfte Sea of Dneao 





hire a competent alchemist if you go after 
monster parts, trust me. 

Precious metals like 
platinum, gold and 
silver are, in general, 
received as payment 
for your goods, so 
you'll likely carry 
them on your return 
N^i^gg^l^^M trip: I'm sure you 
I already know very 
well this part so I'll 
just give you just a couple of advices. It' my 
firm opinion it's better not to muscle in the 
whole raw precious metal trade: loading 
just-mined raw gold in your ship is the best 
way to burden your merchantman, lose 
maneuverability and to attract pirates like 
seagulls on my yesterday's dinner. 

Moreover, many countries strangely believe 
they have exclusive mining rights on certain 
territories, even if you actually mined the 
minerals and they did not care to exploit the 
veins themselves until a mere minute before: 
their ships may easily seize your cargo or 
impose an ultra-high taxation should they 
discover you in their waters. 

'CI71RD choice Mauketable qooDs 

Finally, on a last-resort choice, you should look 
for fragile and potentially perishable luxury 
goods such as fine wines, spirits, glassware, 

exotic foods and 
perishable 
spices. I'd put live 
monsters and 
live exotic 
animals in this 
category as well: 




remember they pose the additional danger 
of escaping. 

If possible, move such goods across short 
distances and take the safest route. Avoid low 
latitudes, if possible, as warm temperatures 
and likely thunderstorms may spoil your 
cargo -or let it evade - in a very short time. 

ExceptioNal ciucuMStaNces 

Avoid loading any other good I did not 
mention so far. Moving common goods - even 
weapons - and foodstuff from a place to 
another will give low profits to Linton House, 
and it's better suited for short-range trade 
with less expensive ships. 

Of course you may think it's a good idea to 
sell food in a famine-stricken country, to offer 
weapons and armors to some war-torn border 
province and to provide tools to a newly- 
founded colony. The problem is - my dear 
Polin - that, under the same such exceptional 
circumstances, you're not assured to be paid 
off once you unload your cargo. 

Such an occurrence should arise, I believe 
it's way better to move people instead of 
goods: move clerics to the famine, warriors 
to the war - they'll also help you in defending 
your ship, by the way - and colonists to the 
wilderness. And get paid in advance for their 
transportation, it's a much more rewarding 
business. 

Just remember to buy plenty of food and 
water for the extra passengers and to hire a 
few additional clerics to deal with the 
inevitable diseases and wounds. Try also not 
to overload the ship: shipwrecked people 
tend to blame the captain, if he is still alive. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AOvice f on tnaOens iN tlje Sea of Dneat) 




Slave tuabe 

A final note: slave trade. Trust me, avoid it. 
The Alphatian Empire is too far away to be 
profitable and the Sindhis' institutionalized 
"slaves" (they call them Kulyias 3 ) are mostly an 
internal matter of their caste system. 

Actually there is a single, huge market where 
slaves can be sold - the Thyatian Empire, which 
basically means Thyatis City. 

Captives from the Thyatian Hinterlands and 
from the Alphatian borderlands on the Isle of 
Dawn are the main sources of the increasing 
slave population of the Empire 4 . A further 
complement is provided by Ostlanders and 
Caerdanian raiders, while independent pirates 
add their little contribution looking for slaves 
in both Thanegioth Archipelagos and in the 
northern Davanian coast. 

I strongly suspect that several unscrupulous 
Minrothaddans are involved in slave trade 
despite the official declaration of their leaders 
that Minrothad is out of the slave business 5 . I 
believe the Cathosians don't mingle in slave 
trade as they were themselves enslaved 
centuries ago and didn't enjoy the experience, 
while I'm not sure about Kastelios' policy on 
this matter: most of the area around them is 
a hunting ground for slaves so, likely, some 
Kastelians may be involved in the business. 

Why slave trade is not a business, you ask? 
Well, if you start trading slaves then a lot of 
people will begin to think that you may look 

3 

See "Champions of Mystara: Explorer's 
Manual" (by Bruce Heard) section about Sind for 
details. 

4 The increase of slave population of the 
empire is cited in DotE "Dawn of the Emperors 
Boxed Set" by Aaron Allston. 

5 GAZ 9 "The Minrothad Guilds" by 
Christian/Eastland. 



at them as a potential "trade goods", and will 
act accordingly. Most people west of Thyatis 
- including Darokin - oppose slavery as they 
are descendant of populations who were 
enslaved in the past. If you trade slaves your 
not slave-related business reputation will be 
disrupted in a very short time and you'll end 
up despised and attacked on sight by the 
halfings, the elves, and the Ierendians. 

Moreover, the bulk of slave trade to Thyatis 
is carried out by the Thyatian themselves and 
by their allies - most notably Ostlanders. I bet 
they would not like a new competitor in this 
field. 

WHERE TO SELL QOODS 

Now, let's now talk about destinations. 

First of all, you have to understand that the 
whole area is experiencing a real golden age 
in trade and exploration, which is opening 
untold opportunities to any enterprising 
merchant wishing to move goods to the gate 
towns. 

Large parts of northern Davania coastline 
were recently opened to the northern 
markets thanks to Thyatian colonists 6 , 
Heldannic holy warriors 7 and Kastelian 
traders 8 . The end of the Isolation Act of 
Minrothad is leading to the reopening of old 
trade routes 9 in the Sea of Dread, which are 

6 DotE "Dawn of the Emperors Boxed Set" by 
Aaron Allston. 

"Heldannic Knights -- Historical Timeline" 
by Bruce Heard 

CoM "Champions of Mystara: Explorer's 
Manual" by Bruce Heard. 

CoM "Champions of Mystara: Explorer's 
Manual" by Bruce Heard about the "discovery" 
of Thanopolis (Tanakumba) by Minrothad 
traders in 852 AC. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AOvice f on tuaOens iN tfte Sea of Dneafc 






soon followed by expeditions 
Karameikos 10 , Cathos and Ierendi 11 . 



from 



Minor seafaring actors like the Black Eagle's 
Barony 12 and Hule 13 are right now sending 
their exploration parties across the sea: even 
the dwarves of Rockhome 14 have recently 
attempted to explore the Isle of Dread looking 
for a place to establish a new colony! 

The Thanegioth Archipelago is the big prize: 
anyone who will manage to establish a few 
safe ports of call on it will have the keys to the 
whole pool. Unluckily, the area is infested with 
dangerous monsters and hostile people - 
including cannibals: Thyatians would be the 



10 XI "Isle of Dread" by Cook/Moldvay and 
XSOLOl "Lathan's Gold" by Merle M. 
Rasmussen. 

11 X6 "Quagmire!" by by Merle M. Rasmussen 
about Ierendian explorers trying to find new 
routes in the western Sea of Dread. 

12 XSOLOl "Lathan's Gold" by Merle M. 
Rasmussen. 

1 3 

PWA I "Poor Wizard's Almanac" volume 1 by 
Aaron Allston, at least referred to Hulean 
pirates. 

14 XSOLOl "Lathan's Gold" by Merle M. 
Rasmussen, a reference to Elrem Nessumsar's 
quest. 



most advantaged thanks to their new colony 
in their "Hinterlands" if not for the hate of 
the people of Nueva Ispanola 15 - escaped 
Thyatians persecuted a century ago who are 
just seizing the moment for revenge. 

I attended myself a meeting with the 
indigenous people of Tanaroa confederacy 
in which they expressed their desire to be 
more opened to foreign influx 16 but, also, 
when I was a naive rookie seaman, I had to 
help evacuate a few beleaguered survivors of 
the Aquapopulus War between the Twaelars 
and the human colonists 17 . 

Thyatis City is not a gate to anywhere except 
for herself: her population is larger than that 
of many nearby kingdoms, and she consumes 
any kind of goods at an alarming rate, goods 
which are paid with gold and precious metals 
taken from the rest of the huge Thyatian 
empire. Everybody wants to sell goods in 
Thyatis City, at least until they are paid off. 

15 "Grand (Arch) County of Nueva Ispanola" 
by James Mishler 

16 XI "Isle of Dread" by Cook/Moldvay, the 
reference is to an adventure idea found at the 
end of the module. 

1 7 

The Aquapopulus War is cited in XSOLOl 
"Lathan's Gold" by Merle M. Rasmussen. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 




Sometimes I'm scared about what will happen 
to this city should the sea routes be broken or 
the provinces rebel against the central power. 

Gate cities, located in the Sea of Dread or in 
its vicinity, are - clockwise from Thyatis City - 
Vestland, Freiburg, West Portage, Beitung, 
Kastelios, Tanakumba, Putnabad, our nice 
town of Port Tenobar and Specularum. 
Specularum is the newest gate city, thanks to 
the recent opening of the Duke's Road leading 



to Selenica 18 , so its full potential is yet to be 
explored - maybe a good first task for you, 
my young Captain. 

I believe Raven Scarp and Helskir might one 
day become gate cities as well, but Raven 
Scarp is still too intermingled with Thyatian 
colonial policies to attract foreign traders, 



GAZ 1 "The Grand Duchy of Karameikos" 
by Aaron Allston about the building of new 
roads. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AOvice f on tnaOens in tfte Sea of DneaO 




while Helskir is periodically razed to the 
ground by contending Thyatians and 
Alphatians 19 , so it is not safe to stop there for 
too long. 

TRADE COMPETITOR: 
KASTELIOS 



Kastelian ships puzzle me, by the way: they 
have a mix of rowing and sailing features 
which I'd deem impractical, if not inefficient, 
but they seem to do their job very well. 

TRADE COMPETITOR: 
MINROTHAD 



The city of Kastelios is a good place to sell 
goods, as it is the gate to the scattered city- 
states of the northwestern Davanian plains, 
but it is also a competitor on its own as she 
fields her own strategy of buying luxuries 
everywhere she can and selling them to other 
gate cities. A very dangerous combination for 
our businesses, I must say. 

The strategic position of Kastelios - just in front 
of Thanegia Island - also provides to Kastelian 
traders a fast access to the exotic goods of the 
Savage Coast and the Addakian Sound. It is a 
common sight in Yavdlom to meet a Yavi intent 
on predicting a bright future to a newly 
disembarked Kastelian captain. While I believe 
most farseers actually do it for the generous 
tip they receive from the captain, I must say 
the farseers are rarely wrong - one of them 
once predicted for me "a hand of decades in 
sail and a hand of decades at anchor", and 
now I'm afraid he will be right. 

Even if I'm not blessed with the prescience of 
a farseer I strongly believe the Kastelians will 
become the most important middlemen in the 
Sea of Dread within a few decades, and that's 
why I think we Darokinian captains should 
lobby Linton House to build more blue-water 
sailing ships as soon as possible. 



1 9 

See M5 "Talons of Night" by Paul Jaquays 
for details, The next clash in Helskir will happen 
in AC 1002. 



As I talked about Kastelios, let's have a quick 
look at our other two competitors. 

Minrothaddans - you know them very well - 
owe their fortunes to their superior 
shipbuilding abilities. 

Their ships are really the fastest and safest in 
the high seas: their building is a closely 
guarded secret in which I suspect the elves 
are involved 20 . 

Their ridiculous Isolation Act has been a true 
blessing to foreign traders - including us - 
for more than a century but, since they 
dropped it in the last years, things are 
becoming worse for our businesses. 

Thanks to their better navy, Minrothaddans 
make contact with any potential trading 
partner faster than us and say to them: 

"Do you want to sell your coconuts to Thyatis 
City with such a clunky boat? Aren 't you 
aware of the many dangers of the Sea of 
Dread? You'll barely escape with your life, 
trust us. Just let us do this trade for you! Sell 
us the coconuts and we will bring them 
safely to Thyatis' docks. Oh, by the way, we'll 
charge you with a 18% tax, just to keep our 
fleet in working order, nothing special. And, 

20 According to GAZ 9 "The Minrothad 
Guilds" by Christian/Eastland at least the 
Minroth clipper is built by water elves. 
Moreover, any attempt to reproduce Minrothad 
ships on continental shipyards resulted in 
higher costs and less quality, at least so far. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AOvice f on tnaOens in tfte Sea of Dneat) 




before we forget, you '11 maybe be interested 
in buying some fine jewelry we keep in our 
warehouses in Traders Island. Just let one of 
our pilots guide you there - waters in our 
country are very treacherous - and well be 
glad to show you all our merchandise! The 
pilot's rent will cost you a purely nominal 
tithe - just about 18% of the final price for any 
traded good\ 

Very clever guys. I hate them. 

I heard tales of a Minrothaddan clipper who 
recently made contact with barbarian 
horsemen in a northeastern subarctic land 
called New Thonia, a quarter world away from 
here 21 . I also put my trust into what rumors 
say: the Thyatian town of West Portage is 
secretly controlled by guildsmen from 
Minrothad 22 , which also pay the many bandits 
infesting the famous "ship land route" to East 
Portage 23 . This is unfair practice at its best, my 
young Polin, but it gives you a hint of the true 
power of these people. 

In short, as you already know, avoid selling 
anything to Minrothad - avoid even going 
around their archipelago - at least until you 
can afford the cost and the risk to sell there 
your goods yourself. 



2 1 

From M2 "Vengeance of Alphaks" by Skip 
Williams: the Minrothad fleet is used to move 
horsemen from (new) Thonia to help in the 
Thyatian invasion of Norwold some years after 
AC 1000. 

2 2 

This rumor is true according to the 
background of Guildmaster Lareth Kubek of 
West Portage at the end of M5 "Talons of Night" 
by Paul Jaquays. 

2 3 

DotE "Dawn of the Emperors Boxed Set" by 
Aaron Allston. Ships are provided with wheels 
and pulled by pack animals over a land route 
between West Portage and East Portage, to save 
the long voyage around the Isle of Dawn. 



TRADE COMPETITOR: 
CATHOS 24 

Finally, we have the Cathosians. Strange 
bunch of people, indeed, mostly interested 
in trading along the Davanian coast. 

They have an odd motto: "Our ships will 
always find the route" and I have to admit 
that it seem to be true. Cathosians make use 
of sailing ships only, usually of small or 
medium size and with a stripped-down crew. 
They seem not to care very much about 
following well-established routes, and they 
place their trading offices extremely 
separated from each other - 1 heard rumors 
about faraway colonies of Cathos located at 
unreasonable distances from home, such as 
in front of the coast of Minaea 25 , or down 
along the savannah of tropical Davania - the 
southern tropic, I mean. 

I suspect water or air magic - most likely 
some kind of elemental stuff - is strongly 
involved in their careless approach to the sea 
but, if you ask them, it is always just a matter 
of "skill and luck". 

Cathosian trade network is so scattered that 
their merchantmen actually pose a limited 
threat to businesses focused in the Sea of 
Dread but, sometimes, they tend to 
unexpectedly outrun you in the race to the 
gate cities, so always beware of them. 



24 MSOL02 Maze of the Riddling Minotaur by 
Jeff Grubb. For its placement see " Another 
Vacros and Cathos placement theory " by 
LoZompatore 

25 

This is a popular fanon location for Vacros 
and Cathos themselves. Here it is turned into a 
trade outpost. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AOvice f on tuaOens iN tlje Sea of Dneat) 




1 heard the sailors of Cathos have a strong 
dislike for galleys, longships and others vessels 
moved by rows. They say such ships remind 
them of the huge galleys of slavers moved by 
minotaurs which were used during the final 
years of their former ruler, the long-lost sea 
empire of Vacros 26 , about four centuries ago. 

OTHER POTENTIAL 
COMPETITORS 

Now that I'm on it I'd like to add some notes 
about two more potential competitors: 
Thyatians and Ierendians. 

Ttiyatis 

Thyatians are able to field a huge fleet - almost 
six hundred units, to my knowledge 27 - but 
their ships are mostly concerned with the 
administration of their colonies, where most 
of the trade is carried out. They pose a little 
threat to foreign traders, until such traders 
behave correctly in Thyatian waters and help 
supplying the never ending needs of their 
hungry capital. 

leueNDi 

Ierendians are likely to possess the best crews 
in the world - loyal, brave and trained sailors 
who will not stop at anything - just make sure 
to have as much of them on the Armstead, by 
the way. Unfortunately their waters are 
infested with nasty pirates who pin down most 
of their businesses and deter most foreign 

26 MS0L02 Maze of the Riddling Minotaur by 
Jeff Grubb. Vacros was invaded and destroyed 
by Cathos some 400 years before the beginning 
of the adventure (which could be likely set in AC 
1000). 

2 7 

For details on this estimate see " Mystaran 
Fleets " by LoZompatore here: 



ships from 
archipelago. 



approaching the Ierendian 



Should the Ierendians manage to get rid of 
the pirates I think they would become a naval 
power to be dealt with. 

PIRATES AND RAIDERS 

Piuates 

We started talking about pirates and raiders, 
what to say about them? 

In my maps I took note of every pirate den I 
incurred personally or I have heard of. For 
sure many more exist hidden here and there. 
Also remember that, once in open waters, 
trade competitors and pirates often tend to 
mingle. 

Now, the menace posed by pirates in the blue 
waters calls for a relatively large ship, with at 
least an user of arcane magic and a cleric - by 
the way, our Elimon and Rodarsky are good 
and experienced fellows, trust them and 
you'll see how they always manage to earn 
their pay. Fire and long-range weapons - 
while imprecise - often discourage pirates 
from approaching, that's why the Armstead 
fields a light catapult and two ballistas. 

Some pirates are supported by the leadership 
of nearby countries, such as in Jaibul and in 
the Five Shires, so do not expect any 
compensation by their governments after 
your complaints. The lands of the hins are a 
very peculiar case: they say they must attack 
foreign ships because their waters are closed 
off from the most profitable trades 28 . I say 

28 GAZ 8 "The Five Shires" by Ed Greenwood 
specifies in the "Smuggling" sections that the 
waters in front of the Shires are mostly 
neglected by human traders except for 
foodstuff. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AOvice f on tnaOens iN tlje Sea of Dneat) 




their waters are closed off because they attack 
foreign ships. Anyway, thanks to our 
Diplomatic Corps, Darokinian ships do not 
suffer from hin attacks: I bet you already made 
many profitable businesses with the Shires on 
your previous assignments. 

By the way, a skillful diplomat is always a 
valuable resource In businesses; unluckily, 
diplomats tend to get too much involved in 
local politics after some time. Just see if you 
manage to get the help of one of them, sooner 
or later, but don't get too attached to it. 

RaiDeus 

Raiders pose a slightly different kind of issue: 
they seldom attack ships in open sea unless 
they "provide a fair fight", but they become a 
real danger if decide to raid that precise spot 
you are docked into. 

Two loosely related groups of raiders exist in 
the Sea of Dread: the Ostlanders - who control 
the northeastern routes to the Strait of Helskir 
- and the Caerdanians 29 , who control most of 
the southeastern route to the Sea of Ochalea. 

Ostlanders have a strange sense of honor and 
will not explicitly steal from you, but they 
believe it's fair to pick up your goods once you 
are defeated in battle. 

The Caerdanians are slightly less scrupulous: 
they assume any ship entering the Strait of 
Furmenglaive to be a trespasser and will send 
their "navy" to "escort" the offender out of the 
Strait. This escort service usually costs a tenth 
of a ship's cargo. If the captain refuses to pay, 



2 9 

Caerdanians are fan-created material. A 
detailed " Caerdania Gazetteer " by Simone Neri 
can be found in the Vaults of Pandius. It is also 
based on information first provided by Andrew 
Theisen. 



the ship is assumed to be an enemy and a 
boarding attempt ensues. 

It's worth noticing that Ostlanders and 
Caerdanians usually enslave the people they 
defeat. 

Both groups of raiders are approved, and 
somewhat sponsored, by the Thyatians as 
they help in providing slaves to their capital. 
Ships of the Empire usually have little to fear 
when crossing the straits to Helskir, Freiburg, 
Furmenglaive and Ochalea. 

NATURAL DANQERS AND 
MONSTERS 

Now that I introduced you about the most 
important hindrances posed by human 
activities, I'd better start talking about natural 
dangers and monsters. The Sea of Dread 
offers plenty of them. 

It is usual among blue water seamen to divide 
the Sea of Dread into four regions: the Sunlit 
Sea to the north, the Davanian Shallows to 
the south, the Eastern Sea of Dawn to the 
east and the proper Sea of Dread in the 
western and central regions of the pool. 

THE SUNLIT SEA 

The Sunlit Sea is the region you know best, 
so I'll not pull out too much on it. The main 
hazards here are pirates. Avoid the Minrothad 
archipelago if you still wish to make a profit. 
Just remember that if you really wish to reach 
Trader's Isle then you are forced to stop at 
Kobos, Gaamo, Specularum, Kerendas, 
Thyatis City, Gray Bay and Fort Southpoint 
to embark a Minrothaddan pilot. These guys 
are the only ones who know how to properly 
master the "Lanes" - as they call their sea 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AOvice f on tnaOens iN tfte Sea of Dneat) 




routes - and manage reach safely Minrothad 
City while dealing with mists, reefs, sandbars 
and dead calms. 

I'll just give you some more information about 
the easternmost and westernmost parts of the 
Sunlit Sea: the kara-kara archipelago and the 
Azcan Terrace, respectively. 

HY)Q Kaua-Kaua aucliipelaqo 30 

The Kara-Kara archipelago is infested by the 
Kal-murus, sort of evil air elementals. They 
bring warm winds to the islands, which enjoy 
an almost tropical climate, but the offset is a 
bloody one. Kal-murus are a very aggressive 
species: they prey on the most defenseless 
ships, push the sails on a crash course to the 
nearest reef and then they gladly proceed to 
kill the entire crew. 

30 

X8 "Drums on fire mountain" by 
Morris/Kirby. 



The Kara-karas, humanoids inhabiting the 
archipelago, do not help at all in keeping 
their waters safe for navigation, as they rush 
en-masse to assault any ship taken by the 
kal-murus and stranded close enough to one 
of their islands. 

I must say it is way better to be a prisoner of 
the kara-karas than to be outright killed by 
the kal-murus, even if kara-karas are famed 
cannibals. I once escaped from captivity by 
stealing one of their canoes - which the 
kal-murus somewhat recognize and do not 
attack - and, ultimately, I must agree with the 
Thyatian Admiralty: the whole archipelago 
does not possess anything worth enough to 
compensate for the loss of a single ship and 
her crew - even if the islands are dotted with 
very ancient and unexplored temples 
obviously not built by the kara-kara. 

I strongly advise you to stay away from this 
area. 




Souttjpoj, 

(Original mapmaking artwork by Thorfinn Tait) 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



AOvice f on tnaOens iN tlje Sea of DneaO 




HY)G AzcaN reRRace 

The Azcan Terrace is nothing more than the 
westernmost extension of the Sunlit Sea 
undersea terraces. Merfolks from the 
westernmost Undersea Baronies say the 
seafloor is inhabited by hostile - while 
somewhat dull - crabmen 31 . 

I do not like to poke in the petty quarrels of 
the undersea races so I'm not able to confirm 
their statement. For sure these waters are rich 
in whales, especially just south the Atruaghin 
Clans' coast. I once read in a rare book from 
Jahore that the Azcan Terrace was once a 
thriving continental forest which has been 
brought under water by an untold cataclysm 32 . 
It seems that a warlike people who called 
themselves "the Azcans" built cities and 
temples on this land: I suppose too many of 
them were wiped out by the cataclysm and 
their people died out; maybe their only 
remnants are the aggressive members of the 
Jackal Tribe along the coast of Atruaghin. While 
there is some potential in ivory and handcraft 
trade here I'd suggest you to stay away from 
these barbaric guys as well. 

THE WESTERN SEA OF 
DAWN 

Now, let's talk about the Western Sea of Dawn. 
Polin, please, try to stay awake as this is not a 
boring part at all. 

3 1 

Crabmen are hinted in GAZ 2 "The Emirates 
of Ylaruam" by Ken Rolston. They live close to 
the tritons (in his mortal life Al-Kalim helped the 
king of the tritons to get rid of the crabmens' 
menace), so the undersea west of the Sunlit Sea 
seemed a suitable locations for them. 

32 GAZ 14 "The Atruaghin Clans" by William 
Connors and also HWR 1 "Sons of Azca" by 
John Nephew. 



This sea is seldom called Oceania 33 - a name 
I read dates back to the ancient times of 
Blackmoor and somehow shifted to indicate 
nowadays a large island far to the east. 

For sure the greatest danger you may find in 
the Western Sea of Dawn - much greater than 
pirates and Ostland raiders - are the Dendans. 

DeNbaNS 34 

Dendans are a race of intelligent whales, 
much more intelligent than the average lot. 

Their breeding waters are in the northern 
part of the Western Sea of Dawn, where the 
cold current from the north mixes with the 
warm current coming from the south 35 . 
Sailing in these waters is not easy, as you may 
guess, and storms from the north are a real 
danger, especially in winter 36 . Winds and sea 
currents strongly favor north-to-south 
navigation along the coast of the Northern 
Reaches and south-to-north navigation along 
the Isle of Dawn western coast. That's why 
we have Vestlanders in Thyatis and Thyatians 
in Helskir, by the way. 



33 

See the Hollow World boxed set (by Aaron 
Allston) Pre-Cataclysmic map. 

34 See GAZ 2 "The Emirates of Ylaruam" by 
Ken Rolston. 

3 5 

This is an attempt to conciliate various 
sources about the direction of sea currents 
along the Strait of Helskir - most notably PWA 
II (Poor Wizard's Almanac) map by Ann Dupuis, 
VotPA (Voyage of the Princess Ark) part 2 by 
Bruce Heard and the article " The Winds of 
Brim" by Bruce Heard .By allowing two sea 
currents in opposite directions all sources are 
not conflicting with each other and many 
interesting features ensue in the area. 

36 GAZ 7 "The Northern Reaches" by Ken 
Rolston. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AOvice f on tnafcens iN tlje Sea of Dneafc 





Water here is so full of marine life you may 
just lower an empty bucket close to the surface 
and a fish will jump into it. The same water is 
very, very, often shrouded in fog and heavy 
mist. Land breezes from the east usually keep 
the heaviest fogs away from the coast of the 
Isle of Dawn, but if you try to cross the sea to 
reach the continent of Brun you'll end up 
surrounded by a grey cap within half a day of 
sailing from the coast. Mists seems to be 
produced by the mixing of the warm and the 
cold current, so they are always present above 
the sea, with the exceptions of days of strong 
gales. 

Back to Dendans: they hate humans and, 
during the mating seasons, tend to sink on 
sight any ship they may incur on. Such hate is 
due to active hunting by the people of 
Northern Reaches, as they are able to extract 
from Dendan corpses a precious magical 
ingredient used to make underwater breathing 
potions. Young Dendans are an easier prey, 
so you may figure out the everyday bitter 
struggles between humans and whales for 
young cetaceans. An alchemist of Redstone 
Castle once told me that just one in ten 
Dendan dead bodies is brought him in good 
enough conditions to actually extract the 
magical ingredient. What a waste. 



What is worse, the pious men of Ylaruam are 
not of any help in this as too many of them 
wish to emulate a legendary enterprise of 
Al-Kalim 37 and they will fervently take the sea 
to single-handedly kill a large Dendan to 
extract the oil. Foolish guys. 

X1Y)G Misty Route 

The abundance of fish is the main reason for 
which the good Ylari people possess such a 
large fleet - about 200 ships I know of 38 . 

The great amount of fish they manage to catch 
in the misty waters is an important food 
source for their arid land. 

The most skilled of these fishermen know of 
a risky direct route to the Isle of Dawn which 
will shorten by many days the whole trip to 
West Portage and back. The "Misty Route", as 
they call it, is only for the most skilled, brave 
and desperate crews, as it requires a full day 
of crossing in dense fog, cutting just in the 
middle of the Dendan breeding grounds 39 . 

Bring always with you plenty of warriors and 
at least a trustworthy Alasyian navigator 
should you decide to try the Misty Route. 

riie Stiabow Coast 

The Shadow Coast and the whole western 
coast of the Isle of Dawn are poor in fish, 

37 See GAZ 2 "The Emirates of Ylaruam" by 
Ken Rolston. While in his mortal life, Al-Kalim 
- with the help of sailors from the Northern 
Reaches - hunted a Dendan in order to create a 
potion of water breathing and visit the 
undersea palace of the Old Man of the Sea. 

3 8 

For details on this estimate see " Mvstaran 
Fleets " by LoZompatore: 

39 

This is an attempt to explain why there are 
so few contacts between Ylaruam and 
Redstone, which are pretty close to each other 
across the Western Sea of Dawn. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



likely due to the warm waters coming from 
the Davanian Coast and the Strait of 
Furmengalive. 

That's why there are not so many settlements 
around here. This could become a danger in 
case your ship is short of food or you need 
urgent repairs. 

HY)Q Stuait of FuRMeNQlaive 

The Strait of Furmenglaive is a dangerous 
place: unfortunately, it is also the shortest 
route between Thyatis City and Beitung, which 
is the gate to Edairo and the Alatian Islands, 
so you must be ready to cross it should the 
need arises. 

If you are entering the strait from the Western 
Sea of Dawn you'll face Caerdanian raiders on 
your left and a dangerous whirlpool bordering 
a long rocky cliff on your right. 

Caerdanians know very well how far they can 
go without being caught in the treacherous 
currents produced by the whirlpool, and 
they'll take every care not to let your ship cross 
the Strait "unattended" by them. 

Raiders usually content themselves to board 
your ship and ask for a tithe between 5% and 
20% of your cargo value but, when facing dire 
times, they'll search for any excuse to capture 
the ship and sell your crew as slaves. As I 
already told you, they are pretty similar to 
Ostlander raiders, just a bit less honorable. On 
approaching Castle Furmenglaive, the 
Caerdanian crews may include odd guys like 
werewolves, lizardmen and even undead, just 
tell your men to keep cool. 

As both sides of the Strait formally belong to 
the Thyatian Empire, Thyatian ships are rarely 
approached by the raiders - especially if the 



ship embarks a unit of legionaries on "transfer 
duty". 

Some Thyatian captains harbored in Northern 
Ochalea usually allow you to use their ships 
to safely cross the strait for a "modest" fee of 
about 10% of your cargo value - per voyage. 
Just ponder your odds and make your 
decision. 

CENTRAL AND WESTERN 
SEA OF DREAD 

Tlie SeupeNt PeNiNSula 

The westernmost part of the Sea of Dread is 
subjected to monsoons in summer, which 
strongly favor south-to-north navigation, and 
by hurricanes coming from the east in winter. 

In both cases, it is very difficult to reach 
Tanakumba and Kastelios sailing down the 
coast from Sind 40 . It is much easier going in 
the opposite direction when there is the right 
climate. This is another little detail that will 
support future Kastelian penetration in the 
Known World markets, trust me. 

Storm giants exploit the monsoon season to 
go fishing in the shallow waters around the 
Serpent Peninsula 41 . They hover their clouds 
at low altitude and then they lower some 
impressive kilometres-long nets, moving their 
clouds like trawlers. It is believed they then 



This would also help explaining why 
Tanakumba was "discovered" so late (AC 852) 
by Minrothad explorers according to CoM 
"Champions of Mystara: Explorer's manual" by 
Bruce Heard. 

41 What follows is based on a random sea 
encounter from X6 "Quagmire" by Merle 
Rasmussen, generalized to the whole Serpent 
Peninsula. 




AOvice f on tnaOens in tfte Sea of DneaO 




sell most of the fish they catch to other giants' 
communities who live in landlocked countries. 

Such "fisher giants" tend to stay away from 
islands, sandbars and the coastline: they prefer 
to catch the big fish that roam the deeper 
waters. Expert seamen know this and tend to 
sail closer to the coastline, but rookies may 
venture too far and incur into a net, damaging 
it along with their ship. Giants may become 
very vocal in asking for a refund of the damage, 
which usually stands up to some thousand of 
gold coins. 

The central part of the Sea of Dread is 
dominated by three features: the Dragon's 
Teeth Reef, the Abyss and the Gyre. 



THE QyRE 



42 



The Gyre is an insidious place: it is avast swath 
of sea where currents run around in a great 
circle, hundreds of miles wide. 

The area is crossed by gentle breezes and it is 
usually bathed with sun. Sea currents in 
themselves are not very strong, and they could 
easily be mastered by a sailing ship with a good 
navigator on board - galleys and longships 
should better stay off, as the currents may push 
them a hundred miles off-route before they 
could manage to cross the area. Even if 
weather is a minor hindrance, the weeds and 
the monsters of the Gyre are not. 

Weeds are not a danger in itself: basically they 
are harmless, long stretches of algae which 

42 

The Gyre is based on the circular sea current 
path shown on the map of PWA II (Poor 
Wizard's Almanac II, by Ann Dupuis) with the 
addition of some info taken from the real world 
Sargasso Sea. A similar concept has also been 
developed by James Mishler in " The Thanegioth 
Archipelago " 



grow in the Gyre and usually stay afloat there, 
herded by the currents on the boundaries. 
Unluckily, they have a tendency to 
intermingle and form localized patches of 
net-like fabric, which can trap any ship foolish 
enough to traverse them - and I must say that 
only experienced crews are able to 
distinguish between the weed patches that 
may be safely crossed from those that are not. 

Weeds are a huge breeding ground for a lot 
of marine life, most notably eels. While there 
are plenty of common eels and they do not 
pose a threat to anyone, giant eels and various 
eel predators usually do. Sharks, giant 
jellyfishes, giant octopuses, giant sea serpents 
and hydras are a common sight here. 

The most clever among such monsters learn 
to hunt around the densest patches of weed, 
knowing that, sooner or later, suitable prey 
will be caught by the weeds and immobilized 
for them. 

I heard rumors of savage sea folks - tritons, 
mermen and the like - living in the weeds: I 
believe they are to common sea folk as the 
jungles' savages are to ordinary people. 

A druid I once ferried across the western sea 
once told me that the Gyre is actually the 
"seed" of most of the hurricanes hitting the 
western part of the Sea of Dread and the 
Serpent Peninsula. I have no clue about the 
details of such a process, but I suppose cloud 
and storm giants actually exploit such 
features to move around. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AOvice f on tnaOens in tfte Sea of DneaO 




HY)Q DuagoN's Teetli Reef 



43 



The Dragons' Teeth Reef is a formidable coral 
barrier splitting the Sea of Dread in two. 

The barrier was slowly built by tiny corals upon 
an ancient mountain chain - a learned sea elf 
I befriended once told me the reef was already 
there when their people reached the Sunlit 
Sea, shortly after the Great Rain of Fire 44 . 

The reef is almost an insuperable obstacle, 
except for a few gaps just south of the Three 
Sister's Keys 45 . The Keys? Avoid these islands, 
if you do not like to be randomly teleported 
across the Sea of Dread. I know many funny 
stories about this odd phenomenon, but I 
suppose it is not very funny when this happens 
to you. 

The Reef provides lots of fish, sure, and also 
marine monsters who eat the fish, and abyssal 
creatures who did not expect the sudden rise 
in the seafloor and got lost, and distrustful 
Twaelar scout parties going north and irritable 
crabmen colonists going south 46 and the 
occasional cannibalistic lizardmen group 
which just decided to get a life among the coral 



43 MS0L02 Maze of the Riddling Minotaur by 
Jeff Grubb and also the map of X7 "The War 
Rafts of Kron" by Bruce Nesmith. 

44 According the Hollow World boxed set (by 
Aaron Allston) Pre-cataclysmic map, the 
northern half of this part of the Sea of Dread 
was a mountain chain before the Great Rain of 
Fire. Part of it - while submerged - was used by 
corals to build the reef soon after the cataclysm. 
See also note 47 below. 

45 What follows is a generalization of what 
happens to the Player Character when he 
disembarks on the Three Sister's Keys in 
XSOLOl "Lathan's Gold" solo adventure by 
Merle M. Rasmussen. 

46 See also note 31 . 



reefs. Oh, did I mention the scavenging 
pirates? Avoid the area. 

riie Abyss 

The Abyss is the deepest part of the Sea of 
Dread. It is mostly unknown to us, if not for 
the effects it produces on the surface. 

The good people of the Undersea Kingdom 
have a sacred fear of the Abyss and they very 
seldom venture into it. Sea Giants are more 
enterprising. Once I helped one of them, 
someone Jubbulnul'ulul'ul or so, and she gave 
us some information in exchange. She said 
the Abyss was carved by the Immortals 47 and 
it is divided into layers: there is the layer of 
sea giants, then the layer of devilfishes, then 
of the sperm whales, then of the krakens, 
then of the water elemental creatures 48 , then 
who knows. 

For sure, all these layers become quite 
intermingled when there is a sudden rise in 
the seafloor, such as close to the Dragon's 
Teeth Reef or to the Bararna Guyot 49 . Beware 

47 

According to note 44 above, the Abyss was 
a mountain chain before the Great Rain of Fire. 
The idea suggested here is that the Immortals 
used most of this landmass to seal the pre- 
cataclysmic opening to the Hollow World 
located in the Ethengar Khanates, leaving the 
Abyss in place of the mountains. The gates to 
the elemental plane of water could also have 
been used to re-balance the global oceanic level 
after the Cataclysm. 

48 



PC3 "The Sea People" by Jim Bambra. 



49 



The Bararna Guyot is named after fanon 
explorer Bararna by Geoff Gander, who also 
discovered Bararna Island in the Thanegiot 
Archipelago (see " Dark Worship in the Known 
World - The Thanegioth Archipelago ", also 
expanded by Geoff Gander on Threshold Issue 
#3). It is implied here that Bararna helped the 
Thyatian Navy to find the safest direct route to 
the Hinterlands, a route that was then used to 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



of this place. The Guyot is entirely under 
water, but its sharp elevation forces marine 
monsters and elemental creatures to rise from 
the deep and reach the surface. 

How do you recognize you are sailing above 
the Guyot, you ask? This is pretty easy. The 
Guyot is flanked on both sides by two large 
semi-permanent maelstroms - an adventurer 
told me they go deep to the elemental realm 
of water - if you are daring enough to fall into 
them to have a check. 

Just sail way east of the Burning Mountain and 
just west of the floating weeds of the Gyre and 
you'll avoid all of them. Remember, the 
Burning Mountain is a danger in itself: while 
it is said that pure gold may sometimes be 
found spouting from this volcano 50 , its clouds 
of poisonous smoke may kill you and your 
crew dozens of miles away from the 
mountaintop, if the winds are unfavorable. 

Maybe for the first crossings you'd better hire 
a Thyatian navigator: they established this 
route to their Hinterlands and they know it 
very well. 

t:he davanian 
shallows 

Finally, let's have a quick talk about the 
Davanian Shallows. 

According to ancient lore, and supported also 
by undersea explorers of the Twaelar empire, 
the Davanian Shallows were once an emerged 
land, the northernmost tip of the continent of 
Davania which sunk after the Great Rain of 
Fire 51 . 

establish the Thyatian colony on Davania. 

50 XS0L01 "Lathan's Gold" by Merle M. 
Rasmussen. 

5 1 

Davanian Shallows "borders" (i.e. the deep 



It was once part of the great, temperate, 
primeval Forest of Ka 52 of fabled legend, as 
can be seen by the large number of tree 
stumps that sprout out everywhere if you care 
to dig just a bit on the seabed. 

Rather primitive tribes or Neathar savages 
inhabiting the area around Garganin have 
legends about "the day Ka turned away his 
head and the sea ate the forest and all of 
our cousins". 

The Twaelars are trying to add this region to 
their empire - they believe there is a great 
potential for kelp plantations and sea horses' 
pastures, while I'm afraid these are not very 
marketable goods on the surface. 
Nevertheless, I heard they are having a lot 
of troubles because of undead and all kinds 
of vermins hidden in the seafloor mud. 

To my knowledge, the only people who 
successfully managed to establish some 
colonies here are the people of Cathos, who 
settled the so-called Hills of Ka 53 - actually an 
archipelago of small islands - which were 
likely a proper hill chain before the 
Cataclysm. 



water level line shown on the map below) are 
drawn by comparing the coastline of the 
Hollow World Pre-cataclysmic map (by Aaron 
Allston) with AC 1000 coastlines. Differences 
are assumed to be due to ancient lands which 
sunk during the Great Rain of Fire and its 
aftermath. 

5 2 

Hollow World Pre-cataclysmic map, by 
Aaron Allston. 

5 3 

The Hills of Ka are based on Andrew 
Theisen suggested location for Vacros and 
Cathos (available in The Vaults of Pandius). Ii 
the current article it is assumed they are just 
colonies of metropolitan Vacros and Cathos 
which are located west of the Pearl Islands. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AOvice f on tnaOens iN the Sea of Dneat) 




Oje KatoNates 54 

The Shallows are crossed by the Katonates, 
nice undersea fellows who built a floating city 
just to trade with us and the Twaelars. They 
belong to the race of the knas. Should you 
incur into them do not hesitate to stop and 
have a nice and profitable conversation with 
them. 

To my experience they are very fair traders 
and - for a small fee - they could also provide 
you with the most updated info about 
Cathosian and Kastelian movements in the 
area and about the last sighting of the 
dangerous Eeliistiis. 

HYiq Eeliistiis 55 

Who are the Eeliistiis, you ask? You'd call them 
"sirens" or, at least, they would look very 
similar to them to you. These monsters just 
place themselves on some rocky reef, the 
upper half of their bodies looking as 
astonishing beautiful women, and singing their 
charming songs. They just want you and your 
crew to join them - as potential mates or as 
food, it is almost the same to them. Once you 
get in their hands you'll never come back, for 
sure. They are a major hindrance on the routes 
to the Hinterlands and western Ochalea. 

AueNtela 

At last, a few words about the mythical island 
of Arentela 56 , just offshore Ochalea. It is a 



54 it 

Katonate Confederacy " by Christoper 
Cherrington 

55 " The dark truth of the Eeliistii " by 
Christoper Cherrington 

56 

Arentela is cited in an adventure idea in GAZ 




magical place, 
inhabited by 
dragons and 
dragon kins. Its 
most 
distinguishing 
feature is the 
silvery dome 
which entirely 
surrounds it, 
reflecting the 
outside like a 
mirror and 
preventing any 
view of the 
island itself. I know of a few captains who 
used to sail close to the mirror to check for 
damages to the hull of their ships. 

The mirror can be lilted only by the rulers of 
the island, otherwise anyone trying to cross 
the barrier will find himself instantly 
teleported on the opposite side of the dome, 
with no hope to ever reach the island. 

Until a few decades ago the dragons of 
Arentela occasionally traded with foreign 
merchants. People from Arentela possess a 
very fine silver jewelry and many exotic luxury 
goods. Unluckily, the weretigers living on the 
Celestial Territories of Ochalea found a way 
to bypass the magical mirror and started a 
unending war against the Arentelans. Most 
battles take places inside the dome, so they 
are not visible to the external passer-by, but 

4 The "Kingdom of Ierendi" by Anne Gray Mc 
Cready but never officially placed. In this 
article it is conveniently placed offshore 
western Ochalea, on an island shown on Frank 
Mentzer's Known World map but seldom shown 
in other canon maps. Here the Chinese myth 
of a mortal enmity between the dragon and the 
tiger is adapted to Mystara. 




AOvice f on tnaOens iN ttje Sea of Dneat) 




nearby waters are dangerous as the rafts 
manned by weretigers going to Arentela and 
flying dragons on patrol are a rather common 
sight here. As you may guess, they are not 
friendly with neutral traders. 

Well, I suppose I topped off with it. You are 
now ready to try to gain some big money on 
the high sea, and you'll likely not be killed at 
the first crossing. Just take care of my ship 



and my crew and - remember - 1 have enough 
savings to afford a whacky ring of 
regeneration for myself, if only I manage to 
get my hands on one of it. 

Who knows, maybe that Yavi farseer was 
wrong after all, and I could come back to the 
Armstead way sooner than expected, to 
relieve you of the burden of command. Better 
you behave with her! 



REFERENCES 

CoM "Champions of Mystara: Explorer's 
Manual" by Bruce Heard. 
DotE "Dawn of the Emperors Boxed Set" by 
Aaron Allston. 

GAZ 1 "The Grand Duchy of Karameikos" by 
Aaron Allston. 

GAZ 2 "The Emirates of Ylaruam" by Ken 
Rolston. 

GAZ 4 The "Kingdom of Ierendi" by Anne Gray 
Mc Cready. 

GAZ 7 "The Northern Reaches" by Ken Rolston. 
GAZ 8 "The Five Shires" by Ed Greenwood. 
GAZ 9 "The Minrothad Guilds" by 
Christian/Eastland. 

GAZ 11 "The Republic of Darokin" by Scott 
Haring. 

GAZ 14 "The Atruaghin Clans" by William 
Connors. 

Hollow World Boxed Set by Aaron Allston. 
HWR 1 "Sons of Azca" by John Nephew. 
Master Set: DM's Manual by Frank Mentzer. 
M2 "Vengeance of Alphaks" by Skip Williams. 
M5 "Talons of Night" by Paul Jaquays. 
MSOLO 2 Maze of the Riddling Minotaur by 
JeffGrubb. 

PC3 "The Sea People" by Jim Bambra. 

PWA I "Poor Wizard's Almanac" volume 1 by 

Aaron Allston. 

PWA II "Poor Wizard's Almanac" volume 2 by 
Ann Dupuis. 



TM2 "Eastern Countries Trail Map" game 
accessory. 

VotPA "Voyage of the Princess Ark" by Bruce 
Heard. 

XI "Isle of Dread" by Cook/Moldvay. 

X6 "Quagmire!" by by Merle M. Rasmussen. 

X7 "The War Rafts of Kron" by Bruce Nesmith. 

X8 "Drums on fire mountain" by Morris/Kirby. 

XSOLO 1 "Lathan's Gold" by Merle M. 

Rasmussen. 

" Another Vacros and Cathos placement 
theory " by LoZompatore. 
" Caerdania Gazetteer " by Simone Neri. 
" Grand (Arch) County of Nueva Ispanola " by 
James Mishler. 

" Heldannic Knights - Historical Timeline " by 
Bruce Heard. 

" Katonate Confederacy " by Christoper 
Cherrington. 

" Mystaran Fleets " by LoZompatore. 

" Sea of Dread ancient cultures " by 

LoZompatore. 

" The dark truth of the Eeliistii " by Christoper 
Cherrington. 

" The Winds of Brun " by Bruce Heard. 

" The Thanegioth Archipelago " by James 

Mishler 

" Dark Worship in the Known World - The 
Thanegioth Archipelago " by Geoff Gander: . 

" Vacros map " and " Cathos map " by Andrew 
Theisen 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



KRON - "C17G Raft City 





FROM 

THE VAUIXS 
OF PANDIUS 



m 



KRON - The Raft City 

by Jesper Andersen (Spellweaver) 




"The raft city of Kron is a unique place, 
forever drifting on the Sea of Dread. Its 
position changes constantly and few seafarers 
ever get to visit this extraordinary place 
except by chance. Some of the Merchant 
Princes have established formal trade 
relations with the citizens of Kron and from 
their ventures bring back exotic corals, rare 
fish and even lost treasures salvaged from the 
bottom of the deep oceans. 

The people of Kron are rumoured to be wary 
of outsiders but generally friendly, once trust 
is established. The city center is built on more 
than a dozen large rafts, some of them as 



large as 400 feet across, all held together by 
massive suspension bridges and walkways. 
Surrounding the central rafts are almost a 
hundred smaller rafts, each supporting the 
house structures of one or more families. 

The ruler of Kron, an aged captain with the 
pretentious title of King' One-Eye, oversees 
the city^s daily affairs from his estate on the 
largest raft in the centre of the city. Here, he 
sits on the Throne of Kron - a massive, green 
marble seat shaped like the hand of some 
forgotten sea god. " 

- Thaoldaw Kaseld, 
chronicler of Clan Corser 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



THE Ciry OF KRON 

South of the islands of Minrothad Guilds, a 
mysterious city built of rafts floats on the tides 
and currents. It never reaches land - perhaps 
this is another effect created by the artefact 
known as the Throne of Kron, which stands 
in the central palace. The throne is what makes 
Kron un-sinkable, which is ironic, because the 
throne itself would sink like a rock, if it fell 
into the ocean. 

The city is home to about 1,000 souls - most 
of them humans. Because the city constantly 
moves, visitors are rare but not unheard of. 
Experienced seafarers, including but not 
limited to the Merchant Princes of Clan Corser, 
have learned to befriend the dolphins of the 
Sea of Dread, who somehow always seem to 
know exactly where Kron is and will gladly 
guide to it. 

RULERS OF KRON 

The current ruler of Kron is an aged captain 
named King One-Eye. In his youth, he was a 
formidable fighter but due to old age he now 
fights as a level 6 fighter. His first mate (captain 
of the guard) is named Falcon (F12). There 
also is a court wizard named Morak (Ml 2), 
who has five apprentices and an amber golem. 

DAILy LIFE IN KRON 

The citizens of Kron survive mainly by fishing 
and diving. All the people are outstanding 
swimmers and with the help of water 
breathing spells, they venture into the deep 
after pearls, corals and other valuables or 
necessities. Their diet consists primarily of fish 
and various types of kelp, supplemented by 
goods traded for with outsiders. Fresh water 



is collected from the roofs of the city 
whenever it rains and stored in large tanks. 
Spilling drinking water is a punishable 
offence - usually with a flogging. 

Naturally, firewood is lacking but for cooking, 
Kron's citizens harvest and dry different types 
of sea plants that produce a suitable heat. At 
night and indoors the city is illuminated by 
luminescent corals that need to be replaced 
on a weekly basis. 

For crafting items that require a more 
powerful heat source, the city relies on the 
potent mixes of the local alchemist, who is 
also responsible for producing alchemy fire 
for the tower-mounted ballistae used to 
defend the city against enemy fleets and large 
sea monsters. 

For all-out defence, the city can also muster 
24 war catamarans carrying a pilot and two 
archers each, and against enemy ships the 
city will deploy a boarding party of 24 divers 
using water breathing spells. 

NOTABLE NPCS AND 
ESTABLISHMENTS 

QauiMiR, local lieab alclieivrist 
aNb Qlue-Makeu 

On a large raft in the northeast corner of the 
city lies Garimir's workshop and laboratory - 
Kron's famous 'glue factory'. Garimir and his 
apprentices use the glands of giant jellyfish 
along with other ingredients and a secret 
recipe to produce barrels of waterproof, 
sticky goo, which the citizens then use for a 
variety of things. Foreign traders have also 
come to appreciate its many uses and so 
Garimir has established a formal connection 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



KRON - "C17G Raft City 




with Cuthbert Hengel, Master Alchemist of 
Minrothad Guilds of Clan Corser. 

Garimir is probably one of the top alchemists 
in the Known World when it comes to 
harvesting and using plants, corals and 
creatures from the Sea of Dread. Few people 
have ever heard of him, however, because 
Minrothad traders are very tight-lipped about 
their sources, when they sell his goods abroad. 

Adventurers visiting Kron could seek him out 
to get his help before going on aquatic 
adventures. He has a vast knowledge of 
undersea animal and plant life and therefore 
also a number of anti-toxins against some of 
the more nasty things, you can encounter in 
the deep. If the price is right, Garamir can 
supply the PCs with water-breathing items, 
light sources that do not require fuel or 
oxygen, salves and ointments to treat wounds 
underwater where regular bandages are not 
of much use and even one-time emergency 
flares (for use on the surface) based on an 
Ochalean recipe for fireworks, he once got his 
hands on. 

Dock Masteu Iqoa 

Igoa and a handful of men run the primitive 
docking area in the southeast corner of Kron. 
The enclosed area is only roughly 200 x 400 
feet and protected on the two sides facing the 
sea by a floating wall and a gate mechanism. 
The docks also include a stables area for sea 
horses and other aquatic mounts and so can 
rarely accommodate more than two small 
sailing ships at any given time 1 . Dock Master 
Igoa is in charge of overseeing everything that 
goes on at the docks - a dull job most of the 
time. 



F5-I port in Bruce Heard's port classification 
system - see " Ports of Mystara " 



Stjip BuilDeu yiuav 

Yirav is in charge of the large ship building 
yard north of the docking area. Here, he and 
group of skilled workers produce and repair 
Kron's fleet of war catamarans and other small 
boats used for fishing or for loading and 
unloading vessels that are too large to dock 
at the city itself. Yirav also has a number of 
triton customers, for whom he constructs 
special sea horse-drawn rafts that can operate 
both underwater and on the surface. 

ZalNi, iNNkeepeu aNb owncr of 
riie MaiDeN s Kiss 

Zalni is one of the few women to run her own 
business in Kron - the city's only inn, called 
The Maiden's Kiss. It is located on one of the 
large rafts in the western part of the city, just 
west of the palace and south of the city's 
stadium. Her inn only has a few rooms for 
guests that want to spend the night and don't 
have their own ship, but the ones she have 
are fairly nice and clean. The food is also 
reasonable, even if the menu has very little 
variation. 

Much of Kron's economy is based on 
bartering, where outsiders bring in wares and 
exchange them in bulk for Kron's goods from 
the sea, but individuals can also buy goods 
and services with coin and most nations' mint 
are accepted. At the Maiden's Kiss there is a 
limited but satisfactory selection of beer, ale, 
mead, wine and spirits from Minrothad 
Guilds, Ierendi and Thyatis but what is on 
tap can vary from visit to visit. 

Since Kron is not under the rule of the Guilds, 
gambling is legal 2 in this city and it is a major 

2 GAZ9 Players' Booklet page 3 : "Travelers 
are often surprised to learn that most gambling 
is illegal among the Minrothad Guilds..." 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



KRON - XT17G Raft City 




pastime with foreign visitors, who engage in 
a number of games at the Maiden's Kiss. Zalni 
has employed a burly fighter by the name of 
Vamar to make sure any cheaters or 
troublemakers are shown the door (and the 
ocean right outside it). 

PaewyN's Salvage OpeuatioNS 

One of the wealthier individuals in Kron is 
the merchant Paewyn, owner of a small diving 
and salvage operation. He has built his 
business paying Kron divers for bringing up 
salvageable goods from shipwrecks and 
undersea ruins they encounter on their dives, 
and selling it to visiting merchants. Recently, 
Paewyn has expanded his operations with a 
sinister crew of 12 Thyatian divers - cutthroats 
all by the looks of them - under the leadership 
of one Joshua Stormshadow. 

Joshua and his men have expanded Paewyn's 
operations by roaming far from Kron in an 
Undersea Boat and bringing back lost 
treasures. Most of the citizens of Kron are 
uneasy around Joshua and his men, but they 
keep to themselves - many suspect that they 
are on the run from the law somewhere. They 
would not be the first fugitives to lay low in 
Kron. 

JolaN 'Cosk / Dominic HaaskiNZ 

Another important but not famous (part-time) 
resident of Kron is Dominic Haaskinz, son of 
the noble Harald Haaskinz of Glantri. Dominic 
is following in his father's footsteps, including 
taking an interest in the Elemental Plane of 
Water and Water Elementalism magic. 

When he learned of the existence of Kron 
about a year ago from a Minrothad merchant 
he met, Dominic arranged for secret passage 
on a ship to the enigmatic floating city. He 



used his magic to slip unnoticed into the city 
and learn more about it. A few weeks later he 
returned in disguise on another ship, posing 
as an old scholar by the name of Jolan Tosk, 
come to find a quiet place to live out 
retirement. He was granted permission to stay 
and rented a small barge on the dull side of 
town. 

To the citizens of Kron, Jolan Tosk is a kind 
old fellow who lives with a middle-aged 
manservant named Ulard. Jolan seldom 
ventures out but has Ulard run errands such 
as food shopping. Actually, Dominic is gone 
for long periods at a time - either attending 
matters back in Glantri or conducting 
underwater experiments to increase his 
understanding of Water Elementalism. 

He is extremely careful - not least because of 
the Thyatian Joshua and his crew of cutthroats 
staging their salvage-operations out of Kron. 
Dominic owns several powerful water-related 
magic items, which he is certain the Thyatians 
would love to get their hands on. 

His most useful item however, under the 
circumstances, is an Amulet of Disguise that 
allows him to assume any medium-sized 
humanoid form including basic equipment as 
often as once per turn. Dominic can appear 
as Jolan Tosk or some other creature, but if 
he tries to copy an actual person, creatures 
he encounter are allowed a chance to see 
through the illusion 3 . 

PLOTS AND INTRICJUE 

HY)Q WGRCRat 

A wererat recently jumped ship in Kron, 
having been on the run from Minrothad 

Source: Joshuan's Almanac & Book of Facts, 
page 144 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



KRON - XT17G Raft City 




authorities for some time. He is currently 
scouting the city in rat form, trying to find the 
best location to set up a more permanent lair. 
Since the citizens of Kron have next to no silver 
weapons, his presence could become a major 
problem in the longer run. 

HY)Q QReeby Hiqli SouceueR 

Morak, magist to the ruler King One-Eye, lusts 
for power and wealth. Eventually, he will 
acquire a Ring of Human Control and seize 
control of the king. By making a deal with the 
corrupt triton Ulobon and using dark magic, 
they will force King One-Eye to make a pact 
with the triton King Lopra of Suthus, in which 
Kron supplies Suthus' triton warriors with war 
rafts with which to raid merchant shipping 
(see X7 - War Rafts of Kron). Morak has no 
idea what Ulobon wants with the prisoners 
from the captured ships and he doesn't care. 

Tlie Spy 

One of Kron's gifted native citizens by the 
name of Hallar has recently found employment 
as a local agent of the Blue Eels (see Gaz 9, 
p. 10). His mission in Kron is to gather 
information about the city's salvage operations 
and to monitor the buyers of rare items 
brought up from the deep. Hallar was 
recruited, because the Blue Eels suspect that 
magical items retrieved from wrecks or 
undersea ruins may be working their way into 
unknown hands in the Minrothad Guilds. With 
the recent attempt on Oran Meditor's life, the 
Blue Eels are investigating any possible leads 
to who might be building up a secret force in 
the islands. 

So far, Hallar has managed to bribe a shop 
clerk at Paewyn's to report on the comings and 
goings of Joshua and his men and clients 
coming to buy Paewyn's goods but nothing 



deeply incriminating has been reported so 
far. 

HISrORy OF THE ClCy OF 
KRON 

Approximately around the year 600 AC, there 
lived a powerful pirate lord on the island of 
Terentias in Thyatis. His name was Kelyr and 
his greed for treasure knew no limits. One 
day, Kelyr heard tales of a lush, green land 
far to the south, where the temples and cities 
were filled with golden idols and statues. 
Intrigued by this tale, he ordered his pirate 
fleet of 20 ships to set sail at once and Kelyr 
led the fleet himself onboard his flagship, 
Demon of the Seas. 

After weeks of sailing, Kelyr's fleet reached 
the coast of the Hinterlands and soon found 
rich, yet poorly defended settlements of 
native tribes along the coast. Kelyr's men 
plundered and burned and carried both loot 
and slaves - including women and children - 
back to their ships. They also brought along 
a massive, green stone throne, which Kelyr 
found in a temple. He liked it and intended 
to make it his throne at home. 

The pirates departed the burning cities, their 
ships heavy with plunder, slaves and fresh 
provisions for the journey home. Everyone 
was ecstatic - the raid had been a major 
success. But back on the shore, a mortally 
wounded priest called out to the immortal 
patron of the now enslaved people - the 
immortal whose temple Kelyr and his men 
had sacked and burned and whose "hand" 
they took - mistaking it for a throne. With his 
dying breath the priest called out to his deity 
and the immortal answered by cursing Kelyr 
and his men. They would never return home. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



KRON - XT17G Raft City 




They and their successors would spend an 
eternity adrift at sea. 

Halfway home the weather changed and a 
powerful storm, which lasted for days, blew 
the fleet far off course - into the deepest 
unknown of the Sea of Dread from where ships 
did not return. Several of the ships sank in the 
storm and the rest were badly damaged. 
Horrified, the pirates watched as giant sea 
monsters emerged from the depths to devour 
the screaming sailors that were swept 
overboard by crashing waves. 

After 10 days the storm finally settled and the 
ocean calmed. Only 14 of the 20 ships 
remained and most of them were unable to 
manoeuvre or propel themselves, having lost 
rudders or masts or both. Unwilling to leave 
his treasure out of his sight, Kelyr ordered a 
few of his most trusted men to take the last 
operational ship and go for help. They set off 
to the north and were never seen or heard 
from again. 

t:Y)g Pact witti tl)z SDank-KiN 

Weeks went by and food and water onboard 
the last 13 ships were rapidly being consumed. 
Some of the pirates started killing off slaves to 
preserve what little food was left. The 
slaughter and blood in the ocean attracted an 
evil tribe of shark-kin, who cautiously 
approached the smashed fleet, now bundled 
up together. Through weary negotiations, the 
evil shark-kin - who realised that the pirates 
were much too well armed to take on in an 
assault - proposed a trade: The fleet would 
give up one human sacrifice a week to the 
satisfy the hunger of an abominations that the 
shark-kin both worshipped and feared, and in 
return the fleet of shipwrecked humans would 
be given enough fish and sea kelp to survive. 



Half-starved and desperate, Kelyr agreed. 
Even he was not so cold-blooded that he 
enjoyed human sacrifice to the horrors of the 
deep, but Kelyr eventually acknowledged that 
the arrangement had its uses. As such, not 
strictly prisoners were traded away to the 
shark-kin - a number of pirates who might 
have been working up the courage to 
challenge Kelyr were also dragged screaming 
to the depths to face the mouth and claws of 
He Who Devours. 

'Clic yeaus of Horror 

Two years went by. The colony of 
shipwrecked were barely surviving on what 
they were being given by the shark-kin. Kelyr 
sank into deep melancholy, realizing that 
despite his wealth and power, he was going 
to die out there on the ocean. The colony 
was close to anarchy, with pirates regularly 
killing each other over food, water, treasure 
- or most of all - the female prisoners. 

There was little the slaves could do to prevent 
the abuse, but the men of the Hinterlands 
had valiantly tried to spare their wives and 
children the horrible death of being sacrificed 
to He Who Devours. And so, they had drawn 
lots each week to determine whose turn it 
was to be sacrificed. 

One day, a young man named Lerisar drew 
the shortest straw, meaning that he was to be 
sacrificed the next day. That evening before 
he went to sleep, Lerisar prayed to the 
immortals and much to his surprise the triton 
immortal Polonius spoke to him in his 
dreams, telling Lerisar to rebel against his 
jailers and the evil shark-kin - worshippers 
of Polonius' enemy, the evil immortal 
Sasskass the Destroyer. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



KRON - XTI7G Raft City 




The next day, as the evil shark-kin came to 
collect Lerisar on the semi-submerged 
sacrificial platform, he turned to Kelyr and the 
pirates and called out to them. He chastised 
them for their lack of courage and for not 
giving him a fighting chance. Impressed with 
his courage, his pride wounded by Lerisar's 
words, Kelyr threw Lerisar a sword and a 
shield. On the stands around the platform, the 
crowd went wild, as Lerisar cut down the two 
shark-kin when they tried to grab him and drag 
him under the water. The blood flowed in the 
ocean, and for a moment all went silent... 

He WI70 DevouRS is uevealeb 

Suddenly, the whole rotten fleet shook, as with 
a thunderous shriek He Who Devours emerged 
from the sea in a spray of water!! The stench 
of rotting flesh between his teeth was 
overwhelming, but Lerisar stood his ground. 
He Who Devours lunged forward, huge pincers 
clicking and cutting. Lerisar dodged but 
disappeared beneath the shallow water of the 
submerged platform. The crowd gasped and 
many screamed in terror, as He Who Devours 
climbed further up onto the fleet. Panic 
spread. A few pirates tried to engage the horror 
of the deep but they died gruesome deaths. 




Suddenly, Lerisar emerged again from the 
water, right next to the beast. He dodged a 
pincer, deflected another with his shield, and 
then with a mighty thrust buried his sword 
to the hilt in He Who Devours' eye. The 
horror was slain. 

riie End of Kelyu 

Everyone on board the fleet of lashed wrecks 
were stunned by Lerisar's sudden defeat of 
He Who Devours. As the panic died down, 
Lerisar called out a challenge to Kelyr. The 
pirate lord appeared on his balcony above 
the submerged platform. He could easily have 
ordered Lerisar killed where he stood, but 
Kelyr did not become pirate lord by backing 
down from a challenge - even one from a 
slave. 

Lerisar and Kelyr met each other in single 
combat and after a fierce duel the old pirate 
lay dead as well. Lerisar ordered the slaves to 
be freed at once and none of the nine 
remaining pirate captains dared to challenge 
the man, who had just killed both He Who 
Devours and Kelyr himself. 

The slaves were freed and quickly armed 
themselves with whatever improvised 
weapons they could get their hands on - 
certain that the pirates would eventually go 
back on their word and try to enslave them 
again. Lerisar sensed the coming bloodshed 
and ordered both sides to stand down. An 
uneasy truce settled over the fleet as the 
pirates withdrew to one half and the former 
slaves to the other half of the wrecked fleet. 

Lerisar then called for a council of the 10 
captains (himself included) . The main topic 
right now was survival - what to do without 
the food supply from the evil shark-kin, and 
how to defend the fleet against the reprisal 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



KRON - "C17G Raft City 




Lerisar and Kelyr do Battle 



attack that would surely follow just as soon as 
the shark-kin had gotten over the shock of the 
death of their monstrous overlord. The former 
slaves knew many crafts that were vital to the 
survival of the fleet in the long run and the 
pirates were too few and too weak to defend 
the entire fleet. For now, the two sides agreed 
to put their differences aside and work 
together for mutual survival. That meant 
arming the slaves with whatever weapons 
could be found. 

HY)Q sliauK-KiN attack 

Three days after the defeat of He Who Devours 
came the attack, which the fleet had been 
waiting and preparing for. Hundreds of shark- 



kin swarmed the fleet at night and in a 
horrible, bloody battle tried to overrun the 
combined force of pirates and slaves but were 
defeated - though the victory was costly. A 
third of the pirates and half the slaves 
including many women and children had 
been killed. Losses among the shark-kin were 
even greater, however, and they did not 
return. 

In the months that followed, Lerisar 
established a more formal rule over the fleet. 
The pirates acknowledged his role as leader 
but many were afraid that Lerisar and the 
former slaves would seek vengeance on them 
for past deeds. One of Lerisar's first actions, 
therefore, was to declare a general amnesty 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



KRON - Xllie Raft City 




to anyone in the fleet. This greatly upset his 
fellow country-men who have suffered not 
only kidnapping from their homes but also 
two years of abuse and seeing their friends 
sacrificed to the sea monsters. Wise leaders on 
both sides recognized the necessity of the 
amnesty, however, and helped Lerisar enforce 
it. 

Secondly, Lerisar introduced a strict work 
regime with responsibilities for everyone - 
some were made fishermen, some guards, 
some craftsmen, cooks, healers etc. Hard work 
kept the minds occupied. Anyone who violated 
the law was severely punished and Lerisar 
measured out justice equally against the 
pirates and his fellow countrymen. 

HY)G Rule of Leuisau 

In the years that followed, life on the fleet was 
harsh. Of the original fleet of more than 2,000 
pirates and 800 slaves, only 500 pirates and 
300 slaves remained. Yet, this number was 
sustainable and through fishing and diving and 
collecting rain water the fleet managed to 
survive. Gradually the lashed fleet of wrecks 
evolved into a floating city, as giant rafts were 
constructed from the hulls and better 
accommodations were built. 

A conspiracy by a group of Hinterlanders to 
poison Lerisar and then surprise and kill the 
pirates for revenge was exposed and the 
traitors hung. 30 pirates later disappeared on 
a homemade raft, trying to escape the fleet. 
After nearly three years at sea, however, both 
pirates and Hinterlanders started to get 
philosophical about their existence and the 
realization that they would likely never see 
land again. Children were brought up hearing 
tales of "Dry Land". 




The worship of Polonius and other immortals 
gradually grew as the fleet's citizens adapted 
to their new life at sea and within a decade 
of Kelyr's death, several small cults of worship 
had established themselves in Kron. 

A uNiQue society 

In the decades following Lerisar's ascent to 
the throne of the floating city, the pirates and 
the Hinterlanders gradually formed a unified 
society. Children were born who had never 
seen "dry land" and gradually as the original 
members of the fleet grew old or died of 
malnutrition and the general harshness of 
the life on the fleet, a new population of 
mixed pirate/hinterlander heritage took over. 

In the early years, the gender mix was far from 
equal - 2/3 men and 1/3 women - but because 
of the influence of the rulers and the 
churches, women were no longer treated as 
objects to be stolen or bargained for. Rather, 
they were elevated to something special and 
the men of the fleet competed for their 
affections. 

Although the gender mix is a lot more 50/50 
today - 350 years later - these traditions still 
affect life in Kron strongly. Four times a year, 
tournaments are held to decide who is the 
best swimmer, fisher, craftsman, warrior, and 
climber and so on. The women don't have to 
choose a mate from among the winners only, 
but the tournament is considered a good 
opportunity to display one's prowess and 
impress the ladies. A large stadium is built 
next to the High Captain's Hall, where many 
of the competitions take place. 

It is not unusual for a woman in the floating 
city to take a new partner every five years or 
so. Once the woman takes a new partner, any 
male children leave the household with their 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



KRON - XT17G Raft City 




father to go live by themselves (until, perhaps, 
the man secures a new mate), while female 
children stay with their mothers until they 
come of age and choose their own first partner. 
From the age of five, boys are raised by their 
fathers to take over whatever profession or 
craft they know. 

During the first century of the floating city's 
existence, a few shipwrecked sailors joined 
the floating colony but other than that things 
remained uneventful. Around 700 AC, 
however, the floating city of Kron, as it has 
begun naming itself, establishes a regular 
contact with friendly races of the sea and 
initiate trade. This creates a great deal of 
prosperity in the city, because the sea folk 
bring tools and items long lost or forgotten 
among the fleet dwellers. A great deal of the 
ancient treasure is gradually traded away over 
the following decades, as tritons and merfolk 
patiently teach the fleet dwellers about the 
deep and how to cast water-based magic such 
as Water Breathing. 



When a ship finally encountered Kron in 776 
AC, the fleet dwellers were so set in their 
world that they categorically refused to leave 
their raft city - even just for brief trip to "dry 
land" and back. As Minrothad Guild ships 
started regularly paying visits to Kron, the 
fear of the outsiders gradually subsided and 
a few daring citizens of the raft city did go 
away and came back with fantastic tales of 
dry land. Not many felt inclined to leave the 
raft city, however, to take on such an 
enormous outside world filled with so many 
dangers. 

During the 900's, Kron prospered further 
from trade with "dry landers", increasing the 
raft-dwellers' knowledge of medicine, 
alchemy and other aspects of science and 
trading with the dry landers for much-needed 
metal tools and other items in exchange for 
what little remained of the original treasure 
and what they could salvage from or hunt in 
the deep ocean. 




The Piazza 

The Premier community 
fcr discussion cf 
D&D Campaign Worlds 

lillii: //ww.tlieiiazza.i rg.uk index. nlm 



of Pandi< 



Vaalts of Pandias 



I'll? Official flystara Homepage 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



ri7e riinee Stanfiowens 





'CHE SrORy OF A SLAVERS HUNTER 

( 

by Francesco Defferrari (Sturm) 



An adventure for PCs of any level 
fighting slavery in the Known World 



This adventure was inspired by the few words 
written by me in " Slaves of the Known World " 
quite some time ago. 



This adventure pits the PCs against pirates 
and slavers as they strive to locate 
kidnapped loved ones and avenge the 
freedom fighter known as the Seagull. 

In Act I, they will meet Nahi, the Seagull's 
protege and learn the sad tale of his life. 
With his very special ship and crew, they'll 
travel across the Sea of Dread to reach the 
slavers hideout. 

In Act II the PCs will go against the infamous 
slavers ship Black Octopus and its powerful 
captain. 

In Act III the PCs will finally learn the truth 
about the Three Starflowers. 



ACC ONE 

A city on ttje stjoues 
of ttje Sea of Dueab 

The adventure can begin in any city that has a 
port on the Sea of Dread, although it is better 
if set in Karameikos, Darokin, Ierendi or 
Minrothad, or even in Davania. 



It could be any time of the day or the night, 
when the PC's will see a middle aged and 
simply clothed man being ferociously beaten 
by a group of men. These men will run away 
once the PC's spot them or yell. If the PC's 
are high level, the men will get away by 
magical means. 

Once the PCs run to the unmoving beaten 
man, they will spot a red gem beside him. 
That's a delayed fireball, and the PC's will be 
hit if they do not run away quickly (if they are 
low level, the DM should time the explosion 
before they are too near). PC's can 
immediately realize powerful magic was used, 
as really nothing is left of the body of the 
beaten man, and that was obviously done to 
prevent a raise dead spell. 

Naturally, a huge number of people will come 
in the street too see what's happening. 

PCs should now notice a small steel 
medallion with the exquisite engraved image 
of three flowers with five petals each. 

Among the people flocking here there is a 
running girl, that suddenly will stop and will 
start to cry silently among the crowd. Guards 
will arrive too, and PCs should be able to give 
them a partial description of the men (simply 
clothed like locals, dark or brown haired). 
They could however be able to recognize 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CI7G rt7nee Staitfiowens 




them if they see them again (roll on 
intelligence) . Guards will know nothing of the 
medallion but if the PCs show it, they'll insist 
to keep it to investigate. 

The girl, young, dark haired, simply clothed 
and apparently unarmed, will eventually walk 
away. PCs should stop her and ask if she knew 
the beaten man. 



"Everyone knew him. He was The Seagull", 
she says soberly. 



PCs should have heard such a name, either 
because the DM has introduced stories about 
him before or simply because obviously 
characters know more of their world than 
players. The Seagull has become famous in 
recent years as a pirate hunter. The stories say 
that the pirates he caught were killed and left 
with cocoa grains inside their mouths, and he 
also was known to free captives and slaves 
whenever possible, but PCs do not know much 
more about him. 

The girl will try to leave. If the PCs ask her 
name or how she knew The Seagull she tells 
them her name is Nahi and is an Ierendian, 
but doesn't have the time to talk now. She has 
to search for the men who killed The Seagull. 
If the PCs offer to help or point out that it's 
dangerous to do so alone, she will look at them 
and ask why they want to help. If the PCs 
explain that they oppose slavery, she will let 
them follow her (she trusts her ability to detect 
lies) but if they give another motivation she'll 
ask bluntly if they do oppose slavery, and if 
their answer is not straight she'll try to 
continue alone. PCs who do not immediately 
gain the trust of Nahi could skip the next part 
of the adventure and meet her again later (go 
to Story of the Seagull), or search the killers 
on their own, as below, and meet again Nahi 
later. 



SeaucliiNQ f or ttje Killeus 

Nahi will begin to visit all the nearby inns and 
taverns, asking the owners if they have seen 
men like the one who killed The Seagull. 
She'll whisper, in case the men have 
accomplices nearby, and offer a good bribe 
to obtain information. She'll ask the PC's to 
do the same in other establishments, urging 
discretion and caution. In the fourth attempt, 
the owner of a dirty and loud tavern called 
The Rotten Squid will tell her (or the PC's) 
that those men just came to take their stuff, 
pay, and then went toward the port. One she 
hears that, Nahi will rush to the wharves but 
the men will be nowhere in sight. She'll ask 
the local sailors patching nets, port guards 
and anyone nearby, but everyone will tell that 
such men didn't come recently to the docks. 

She'll comment that the men could have 
exited the city in some other way, or went 
away by magical means, but she'll also say 
she has a good idea on whom they could have 
been. 

Stoirp of ttje Seagull 

(If the PCs have not followed Nahi in her 
investigation above they could meet her again 
now, scorned and sad, and ask if she has 
news). Nahi will tell the PCs she has a story 
to tell and could use some help. She'll specify 
that there is no reward in that except for the 
satisfaction of doing the right thing. If PCs 
are interested, Nahi will lead them to a quiet 
local tavern she knows to tell all of her story. 



I have to begin with my story to explain 
how I knew him. Two years ago I was 
travelling by ship with my younger sister 
and many other people from Alcove island 
to Ierendi city to sell some necklaces we 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e "Ciinee Stanfiowens 




made at the time, when the ship was 
captured by pirates. They sold us all into 
slavery in some Minrothaddan port, 
unknown to me. I was separated from my 
sister and sent on another ship, toward 
Thyatis. 

Somehow, the Seagull intercepted it and 
freed us all. That's how I came to know 
him, and almost immediately I asked for 
his help to find my sister. He agreed to help 
me, at the time I didn't know yet his story, 
and that it was way more terrible than 
mine. 

He never told me his real name, he said it 
was as dead as the man he once was. He 
said however that he lived in a small village 
on the coast, and he was a happy man with 
a beautiful wife. They had three children, 
three female triplets, a very rare event. 
When his wife was in labor he picked up 
for her three starflowers, without knowing 
yet they were about to have three 
daughters. That's the reason why he called 
the little girls "my starflowers". The girls 
were only three years old when his home 
village was raided by pirates. All his family 
was captured. He fought, in vain, and was 
heavily chained in the ship. He fought 
again, and was beaten senseless for almost 
all the trip. He was sent to a fighting pit 
somewhere in Thyatis but survived and, 
after some months, he managed to escape. 
He was able to track down the people who 
had bought his wife, but she had already 
died, from a common malady. He began 
to kill slavers and slave owners, while 
searching for his daughters in all of Thyatis. 
Eventually he was forced to leave the 
empire with soldiers on his trail, but did 
not give up. All that happened twenty years 
ago. 



Nahi continues the story, explaining how the 
Seagull never stopped searching for his 
daughters, becoming an expert on the routes 
and means of slavery and on the people 
involved in it. He killed pirates and slavers, 
he freed slaves with force or just by buying 
them. He built an organization spanning 
different nations, the Brotherhood of 
Freedom, to help slaves escape and gained 
the aid or the sympathy of many people and 
churches willing to fight slavery, but he never 
found his daughters. 

(DM's wishing to expand the Brotherhood 
could link it also to Lathan Lancehand (Male 
elf 4), main character of XSOLO, Lathan's 
Gold, a Calaari elf of Karameikos, sworn 
enemy of Ludwig Von Hendriks and the 
slavers of the Iron Ring). 



Since he freed me I aided him in all the 
ways I could. - Nahi explains, then her 
eyes become wet and her look sadder - 1 
think he became a sort of second father 
to me, and I became a sort of daughter to 
him. We looked and looked for my sister 
and his daughters and finally, just a month 
ago, we had a breakthrough. We found 
The Black Octopus. 



Again, PCs could have heard the name, as it's 
an infamous pirate and slaver ship, reputedly 
commanded by a vampire, or a necromancer 
in some stories. Nahi and the Seagull found 
out that The Black Octopus was the ship that 
kidnapped both Nahi's sister and the 
Seagull's family. The ship has always been 
elusive to the fleets of half the world's 
nations, that have hunted it almost 
everywhere for years. It has huge bounties in 
the Shires, Ierendi, Darokin, Sind, 
Karameikos and even far away Yavdlom and 
the Savage Coast. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"C17G rt7nee Stanflowens 




We did it by following the cocoa trail - Nahi 
explains - that's why he left cocoa grain in 
the mouth of the pirates and the slavers he 
killed. Because his daughters were sold for 
three sacks of cocoa. He always said "Think 
about the tragic irony, Nahi. We never ate 
cocoa in our lives, before they took us. So 
many nights I wondered, are my daughters 
still alive? Do they know cocoa now?". 

We discovered indeed that cocoa coming 
from the south is often used as payment to 
slavers by Thyatian traders, and following 
that route we managed to find a stray sailor 
who was on the Black Octopus and knew 
its favorite hiding place. He also saw a girl 
similar to me in that place, a lone island in 
the southern Sea of Dread, and that could 
be my sister. I have a map, a ship, a crew 
with good warriors, but I need more help 
to assault a pirates' cove. Would you come 
with me? 



Nahi eventually would like to alert a fleet or a 
personality known to fight pirates (like Devon 
Hyraksos or Zandra Sulanov in Karameikos) 
about this hideout, but cannot do it right now. 
She explains that pirates have many spies in 
all the major ports, and if a fleet leaves to 
engage them they are often warned before, at 
least two thirds of the time. She prefers a lone 
ship and a small group to scout the place and, 
hopefully, free her sister. She'd also like to 
capture the Octopus' captain or one of his 
officers, to ask them what has become of the 
Seagull's daughters. She feels she owes that 
to him. 

Nahi also points out she's risking much by 
trusting the PC's, as the men who killed the 
Seagull could have allies everywhere, but she 
needs help immediately. The Seagull had many 
enemies, but he could have been killed now 



exactly because he discovered the Octopus' 
hideout, and the place could be vacated soon. 
It's important to go there right now. 

If the PC's need time Nahi could agree to wait 
two hours, but not more, or she'll search for 
somebody else. If the PC's accept, she'll lead 
them or meet them at the port, by The Hope 
of Freedom, Seagull's ship. 

'Clie Hope of FueeDoM 

On the ship, PCs will get to know the crew, 
almost entirely made up by former slaves the 
Seagull freed. Obviously when they arrive all 
the crew will be sad and angry over the death 
of their beloved captain. 

The Hope is a small, quick sailing ship 
(similar to a caravel ), that has Attack 3 and 
Movement 8 with the naval battle rules of the 
Ierendi and Minrothad Gazetteers. The ship 
has a crew of 19 people. They are all warriors, 
sailors and even rowers when needed. One 
of them is Nahi (Ierendian female, 21 years, 
Thief 3, freed 2 years ago), the others are: 

-Julius, the second (Thyatian male, 38 years, 
Warrior 5, descends from generations of 
Thyatian slaves, freed 19 years ago, gruff, 
fights with two swords, in an apparently 
casual relationship with Herja, but she's the 
first woman he really loved), 

- Teur (Ochalean, male, 29 years, Warrior 6, 
born a slave, freed 5 years ago, jovial and 
kind, he rarely relates the horrible scenes he 
witnessed in his life. In love with Nahi, but 
hasn't yet found the courage to tell her), 

- Iana (Ierendian, female, 34 years, Thief 6, 
taken 20 years ago and freed 10 years ago, 
beautiful and regal, the informal cook of the 
crew, is devastated by the Seagull's death as 
she loved him, often hides to cry), 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e "Ciinee Stanflowens 




- Selan the boatswain (tanned skin, he was 
taken as a child and doesn't know where, 
male, 27, Warrior 4, freed 16 years ago, very 
gallant with all women but secretly in love 
with Kala, eager to avenge The Seagull), 

- Kala the helmswoman (Pearl Islander, 
female, 33, Warrior 5, taken 14 years ago and 
freed 12 years ago, always friendly bickering 
with Selan, smiling and strong, every sunset 
she throws a flower in the sea in memory of 
her slain husband and lost daughter), 

- Dragan (Kerendian of Traladaran origins, 
male, 41, Wizard 6, sold by his parents 35 
years ago and freed 10 years ago, always 
carries silver pieces for the poor everywhere 
he goes, fearless in battle. He loved Patricia 
from the moment she saw her, but didn't tell 
because he considers himself too old), 

- Shine (Ierendian halfling female, 44, Thief 
8, a sailoress taken in the seas 20 years ago 
and freed 18 years ago, knows the sea, winds 
and currents better than anyone, has 
infiltrated countless slavers' houses, in a 
happy relationship with Abir), 

- Patricia (Thyatian female, 22, Cleric 4 of 
Tarastia, from a rich family of slave owners 
she repudiated 3 years ago, kind and always 
willing to help, attracted to Kalb and Dragan 
but feels guilty about it as she thinks it would 
be like indulging her vanity, and is unable to 
choose), 

- Kalb (Ylari male, 25, Warrior 4, 10 years a 
slave, freed 1 year ago, proud and serious but 
friendly, selfless in defending comrades in 
battle. Likes Ansel much, but cannot admit to 
himself that could be more than friendship), 

- Ansel (Darokinian male, 39, Warrior 7, a free 
man of Akorros who joined the cause for 
idealism 2 years ago, was part of an 



adventuring group but left them because they 
didn't want to challenge the laws permitting 
slavery and serfdom. In love with Kalb, but 
thinks he'll never reciprocate), 

- Ailyn (Minrothaddan female, 18, Cleric 1 of 
Calitha, 5 years a slave, freed 2 years ago, 
apparently fragile, often praying, wakes up 
crying in the night, Patricia and Shine often 
hug her. Knows Ajeet likes her, but she feels 
too weak to have a relationship), 

- Cedric (Dunadalian male, 23, Warrior 3, all 
his family was taken by Alphatian slavers, he 
has a long story of escapes and struggles, freed 
two brothers now returned home, while 
mother and father died. Likes to joke, drink 
and party, but deadly serious in battle. Likes 
Ailyn, but is uncertain if is a good idea to tell 
her), 

- Arafrid (native Heldannic male, 34, Warrior 
6, family sold for rebellion by the knights to 
Thyatians 15 years ago, still searching for two 
sisters, mother dead, melancholic, drinks too 
much when at land, is considering telling 
Ellada he likes her even if he knows it's very 
unlikely she would reciprocate), 

- Herja (Vestlander female, 36, Thief 3, taken 
and sold as a child by Ostlanders, freed 3 years 
ago, never told anyone about her slave years, 
apparently hard and casual about her 
relationship with Julius, but she's really in 
love with him and deadly afraid of losing him 
in battle). 

- Ellada (elf female, 115, Elf 7, she was taken 
as a child and doesn't remember much, has 
been recognized by other elves she met as 
probably Wendarian, was kept as concubine 
by a powerful Thyatian wizard for decades, 
escaped after he died. Had an attraction for 
the recently deceased Sergej but didn't tell 
him and anyway she feels really older than 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie "Cftnee Stanfiowens 




the humans and thinks only Abir can partially 
understand her), 

- Saryan (Cypric Alphatian male, 27, Thief 4, 
crooks sold him into slavery 4 years ago, ended 
in the Isle of Dawn, then on a ship directed to 
Davania and was recently freed by the Seagull. 
Always been a scoundrel and a womanizer, 
likes Ellada, Ailyn and Patricia, but hasn't yet 
chosen the first he'll court), 

-Abir (male gnome, 59, Warrior 3, an excellent 
artisan and smith, grew in the house of a rich 
Ylari merchant, treated very well. Didn't even 
realize he was a slave until his master died and 
he was sold 4 years ago. Fortunately, the buyer 
was the Seagull. Doesn't know his origin, he 
doesn't even speak gnomish. He's in a happy 
relationship with Shine and close friend of 
Ellada). 

- Ajeet (Sindian male, 19, Warrior 2, taken 3 
years ago and freed recently. His family 
exterminated, horribly tortured and burned 
by slavers, even if Patricia and others of the 
crew are trying to cure him, he's sick with the 
desire of revenge and he's the most likely to 
do reckless things. In love with Ailyn, but will 
not admit it as he's ashamed of his looks. 
Practices with the sword maniacally). 

These people come from all the Known World, 
all have interesting and sad stories, they were 
sold by pirates, enemies or crooks, all of them 
were uprooted and lost their families, most of 
them were tortured and saw others die. Many 
are experienced (the DM could also raise or 
lower their levels to better match the PCs) but 
the older ones can easily explain how what 
they do is dangerous by pointing out that more 
than half of the crew was composed of 
different people 5 years ago, now all dead 
fighting slavers. They lost a comrade, a 



Karameikan named Sergej, just ten days 
before, during a Thyatian mission. 

All the personal relationships of the crew are 
deeply tragic as they are all ready to die for 
the cause and know that could happen quite 
soon, particularly if they have to engage the 
powerful Black Octopus. 

riie Sea Voyage 

200 miles south of Trader's island The Hope 
will meet Typhoons island and pass far away 
from it, as ships are frequently sunk near it 
(location of AC 10 adventure Isle of the Storm 
Giant). Nahi will not consider the idea of 
investigating on the way to the pirates 
hideout, as time is too important. 

170 miles south and 25 west of Typhoons 
island The Hope will meet the No Name 
island, aka the Island of Dried Skins of the 
Shark-kin (PC3), a volcanic island with a high 
mountain. Shark-kin and Weresharks live on 
the island, they are wary and threatening, as 
this is their sacred island and they had to fight 
pirates encroachers in the past, but could be 
approached and talked to, depending on the 
PC's action. If PC's are not menacing or 
arrogant, in fact the Shark-kin will talk, as 
they consider the PC's ship too small to be a 
real threat. They know by sight the Black 
Octopus (if the ship is described by Nahi) and 
they can confirm they have seen the great, 
dark ship pass by directed to the south. (The 
Octopus can carry up to a 200 people crew 
and an even greater number of slaves, treat 
it as a galleon ) . 

Pirate's rock is 150 miles south and 25 east 
from No Name island, 420 miles from 
Trader's island. The Hope, if the wind is 
favorable and the weather good, could cover 
the distance in just 4 or 5 days. (Water 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"Ciie "Cftnee Stanfiowens 
m 





IsTe 



TCiackRock V* 



movement modification table for weather in Rules 
Cyclopedia page 90). 

The trip could be uneventful or the DM could use 
encounter rules (here modified from Rules 
Cyclopedia), rolling ld6 for each day. If the result 
is 1, an encounter occurs, 50% of the time it will be 
another ship, roll Id 12: 

Table 1: Ship Encounters 



1 


Small ship of adventurers, could be allies or 
headed to a complete different mission, as 
per DM's decision 


2-7 


Merchant ship, probably will just signal to 
salute, but PCs could sign to communicate 
with them or even buy provisions 


8-11 


Pirate's ship, could try to attack, see Pirate's 
Rock below for a list of them 


12 


Special ship, as one of the floating islands of 
the lizardmen described in Gaz4 The 
Kingdom of Ierendi, page 53, or Kron, see 
X7 



The other 50% of the time the encounter will be 
with creatures of the ocean (ld8 with 1-2 flyer, 3-8 
swimmer) . For flyers see Rules Cyclopedia (a result 
of 6 could be a dragon as per appropriate table), for 
swimmers roll Id 12: 

Table 2: Creature Encounters 



1 


Sea Giant 


2-4 


Sea Hydra 


5 


Mermen 


6-9 


Sea Snakes 


10-12 


Sea termites 



Route to Pirate 's Rock 



Any of these encounters could be hostile or not 
depending on the DM's decision or the reaction 
table. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e "Ciinee Stanfiowens 




The lone Sea Giant and the Mermen will both be 
agents of the Twaelar Empire. They will demand the 
ship's direction and purpose and they will tell PCs 
that they are entering the dominion of the Empire. 
They could be satisfied by several answers, even by 
the truth, or by a "donation", provided that PC's aren't 
arrogant or menacing. They know about Pirate's Rock 
and affirm that the island belongs to them. Slavery is 
legal in their empire too, but they do not care about 
the PC's actions against other surfacers, as long they 
do not disturb the peace of the empire. If the giant 
or the mermen become hostile they could attack in 
force and the Hope of Freedom will risk sinking, and 
PCs and crew could be killed or captured (see below 
the Twaelar Empire box) . 

OveRCOMlNQ WINDS aNb CURRGNtS 

It's very difficult to reach Pirate's Rock, and that's the 
reason why it has been an haven of piracy for so long. 
Nahi and The Seagull were lucky to find a sailor 
willing to share the vital sailing information required 
to reach the island. They consist in a series of 
maneuvers to avoid dangerous winds and currents 
that could otherwise push a ship off course. A full 
day, in addition to the normal trip, is necessary to 
perform all these maneuvers. 

Several governments would pay handsomely for such 
information, but Nahi would give it freely to anyone 
willing to attack the pirates. (See Full attack on 
Pirate's Rock box on page 87) 



'CwaelaR EMpiRe 

The Twaelar Empire is the heir of 
the ancient dominion of Adhuza, 
that in the remote past ruled over 
the Thanegioth archipelago and 
beyond, up to the shores of the 
Known World. The masters of 
Adhuza were the kopru, but 
eventually the more numerous 
mermen rebelled and took control 
of the Empire, renaming it. The 
mermen of Twaelar are not 
peaceful as those of Undersea, they 
have learned cruelly too well and 
are ruthless rulers of the sea that 
aim to expand their dominion to 
the north and the south. All the 
other races of the Empire are 
second class citizens and they use 
slavery too. Wereshark and 
wereseal slavers are used to 
capture, transform and enslave 
surface dwellers. They consider 
pirates useful to disrupt trading 
routes of the surfacers. Their 
ultimate goal is to find a way to 
develop the ability to stay on the 
surface for extended periods 
(developing temporary legs as the 
shark-kin do and the ability to 
breath air) in order to conquer all 
the surface of the Thanegioth 
archipelago, and more. They claim 
rulership of Pirate's rock and have 
in the waters east of Pirate bay their 
northernmost fortress. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"C17G rt7nee Stanfiowens 




Acr two 

Piuate's RocK 

The island has been in the hands of pirates for 
centuries. Even if all the Known World fleets 
know of its existence, only a brave Ierendian 
admiral once managed to find it decades ago, 
but his ships were sunk and all his men were 
enslaved. The reason is the difficulty in 
reaching the island and also navigating around 
it without precise maps, as it is surrounded by 
strong winds, currents and dangerous reefs. 
The Seagull discovered that there is a safe way 
to approach the island, from the north, but 
Nahi will want to do that at night, as by day is 
much more difficult to remain undetected. 

From a distance the island appears exactly like 
a rock on which waves break continuously. 
The rims of the island are high cliffs, 
treacherous to climb, with many submerged 
rocks beneath. However there is a beach on 
the northwestern side, with a small cove 
nearby where the Hope of Freedom will drop 
anchor and, hopefully, remain hidden. With a 
small boat the PC's, Nahi and 11 other 
members of the crew will disembark on the 
nearby beach and begin their exploration of 
the island. 7 of the crew will wait on The Hope. 

QeNeual Qeoquapliy aNb 
Histoirp of ttje IslaND 

Roughly 20 miles long and 8 wide, the island 
is so hilly and rugged that getting lost is really 
easy (1-3 on ld6 each half-day) and the 
movement rate is just 3-4 miles a day. With a 
local guide, it could be increased to 5 miles a 
day. Even if the external cliffs are bare of 
vegetation, the interior is an incredibly thick 
tropical jungle full of insects (and beetle 
swarms), snakes, lizards (some poisonous), 



marine birds, ducks, parrots, cranes, herons, 
flightless birds (like the weka or the dodo), 
rats, mice, bats and small wild pigs. There are 
also more dangerous animals, like giant draco 
lizards, pit vipers, stirges and even some 
hydras, but they aren't the most dangerous 
creatures of the island. In fact several 
intelligent peoples inhabit the island and 
claim parts of it. 

The first people, who claim to be the most 
ancient inhabitants, are in reality a mix of 
races that includes medusas, Cyclops, harpies, 
giants, phanatons, and fairies. They warred 
in the past but now have forged a stable 
alliance that dominates the northern part of 
the island. The second people are the 
lizardmen that live in the eastern part of the 
island. The third people are the humans of 
mixed Makai and Tanagoro descent that live 
in the south west and in the smaller eastern 
island. The fourth people are the pirates that 
include men from all the Known World, 
Makai, Pearl Islanders, Yavdlomians, Sindians, 
lupins, rakastas, tortles. The fifth people are 
the mermen and the other races of the seas 
they dominate, i.e. knas, sea ogres, sea giants, 
shark-kin, tritons, weresharks, and wereseals. 
All of these five people claim to be the real 
masters of the island, and it's hard for an 
external observer to know who's telling the 
truth. 

All these people now have an uneasy truce, 
but they had several wars in the past and they 
also defeated several other people who tried 
to live on the island but were eventually 
destroyed and have left only traces now, and 
that includes fire salamanders, gyerians, 
crabmen, chameleon men, carnifex, 
neanderthals, rakastas, Oltecs, 

Blackmoorians, Taymorans, Nithians, and 
Milenians. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CI7G "Ciinee Stanfiowens 




The waters around the island house an 
incredible variety of jellyfish, lobsters, crabs, 
fish, dolphins, seals, more dangerous creatures 
as sharks, water termites and sea snakes and 
really dangerous creatures such as sea hydras, 
sea dragons and the people of the Twaelar 
Empire. 

WalkiNQ t^e islaNb 

From Fairy Beach to Pirate Bay is just a 7 mile 
walk through the south east, a two hour walk 
in normal conditions, but due to the 
impassable vegetation and the rugged terrain 
the PCs will never be able to walk in a straight 
line, will have to climb in several places, cut 
vegetation, cross streams and ravines and will 
risk getting lost. During the first day they will 
hear laughter and movement in the jungle, 
but they will find nothing except for wandering 
monsters (even a hydra if they are unlucky). 
In fact the fairies are observing them from the 
start. If the PC's do not get lost (and there is 
a small chance of that, see above), they will 
reach the outskirts of the village of Sharath by 
the first evening. If they get lost they could 
arrive near Gukluna by the first evening or 
near The Grumbler in two days, or be truly 
lost in the jungle in the direction of the bay. 
Either way the fairies will manifest by the end 
of the second day. 

FlyiNQ oveu 

Flying, even if PC's have the means to fly with 
other 12 people, it is a very bad idea not only 
because it would provoke attacks from stirges, 
hydras and maybe even the dragon Kumatun, 
but also because the lookout in The Strong 
(see below) will surely spot them. If the PCs 
have the means to fly all invisibly, the fairies 
will stop and confront them anyway, as 



described below, as soon as they land near 
the bay. 

Sharath 

This village is mostly built on trees, in one of 
the rare plain areas of the jungle. The 
inhabitants are phanatons, pixies and other 
creatures that resemble small rakastas and 
gyerians (pookas) and treants. 

Gukluna 

This village of wood huts is inhabited by a 
particular race of giants probably unique to 
the island, and by some pixies, treants and 
harpies. The giants in the past mixed with 
humans, ogres and neanderthals, so they are 
only 9 feet tall and have brown skin. 



Fiust People 




Treant 

Wherever the PCs arrive after one or two days 
of walking, a delegation of the First People 
will confront them, probably composed of a 
treant, a pixie and a pooka or a giant. They 
will ask PCs, kindly but firmly, why they are 
here on their island and what are they doing. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie "Ciinee Stanfiowens 




If the PCs speak with them, they'll explain that 
they have a sort of agreement with the pirates 
and they'll insist that the PCs speak with the 
Snake Queens. 

If the PCs agree, the fairies will lead them, in 
a days walk, to Medusa Cape. If the PCs escape 
or fight, the fairies will run away but shortly 
after they'll begin to harass them to drive them 
toward the south, outside their territory. The 
fairies will avoid kill or be killed situations, 
but if the PCs somehow manage to kill some 
of them, they will retreat to attack later in full 
force (i.e. numbering in the dozens) until all 
the PC's are exterminated. Excessive violence 
would be a very stupid choice on the PCs part 
and Nahi too will oppose it at any cost as it 
would compromise the mission. 

Probably accompanied by fairies PCs will pass 
near to 

The Grumbler 

The still active volcano has a cloud of smoke 
hanging over it, even if it hasn't erupted for 
decades. In the past flame salamanders came 
out of it and tried to invade the island, and 
some say they are still a threat in the area. The 
DM could add a salamander encounter if he 
wishes, as they could attack (not lethally) the 
fairies and the PCs in order to harass them. If 
the PC's have somehow arrived here escaping 
from the fairies the salamander could be 
friendly and even aid them in reaching The 
Strong through underground passages, if they 
are willing to aid the salamanders in killing 
the medusas. 

Medusa Cape 

They will see a bare area full of caverns, rugged 
hills, cliffs and sand dunes, inhabited by 
medusas, Cyclops, giants and harpies. The 
medusas, called by the other of the First People 



the Snake Queens, will meet the PCs with 
veils on their faces. There will be three of 
them. If the PCs tell the truth, the medusas 
will explain that, after many wars in the past, 
they made an agreement with the pirates. 
They trade with them but don't consider 
them friends, so if the PCs would like to try 
to enter The Strong and fight the pirates, the 
First People will not interfere. They will point 
out, however, that the fortress and the town 
of Hideout have a thousand inhabitants and, 
even if most of the pirate captains hate each 
other, they will fight together against an 
external enemy. Besides, they know that the 
captain of the Black Octopus, simply known 
as The Masked One, is a powerful wizard. The 
medusas are willing to help, as they could 
obtain from the pirates any individual slave 
or any information, but only if the PC's will 
steal an idol in a human village of Tuawo-ki, 
in the south, or, alternatively if they will aid 
in killing the dragon Kumatun. 




Medusa 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"C17G riiitee Stanfiowens 




The PCs could discuss the proposal with Nahi 
and the others. They want eventually the 
capture of the Octopus but, for now, could 
settle with the freedom of Nahi's sister and 
information about the whereabouts of The 
Seagull's daughters, as they all feel they owe 
at least that to him. Nahi will suggest asking 
the medusas also all the available info about 
the other ships now at anchor, as some pirates 
could be allies in future battles with the 
Octopus and its crew (see descriptions of the 
ships below). If the PCs agree they'll have to 
choose one of the two missions, if they refuse 
the medusas will simply let them go and the 
fairies will escort them to the northern... 

Piuate's bay 

With approximatively a diameter of three miles 
the bay houses in its lower half the pirate town 
of Hideout, dominated by a tall fortress, The 
Strong. As walking on the beach PCs could be 
easily spotted from the towers, they'll have to 
go back into the jungle to continue south. The 
next destination is the village of Kamawi, 9 
miles away. With a pixie guide, the PC's can 
reach it in two days. The pixie will leave them 
before the village, they'll have to reach Tuawo- 
ki with a local guide, as he won't enter human 
territory. . . 

Kaiviawi 

This large town of wooden houses that 
resemble overturned ships, located in the 
larger plain of the island, is inhabited by 
brown skinned humans that look similar to 
Ierendian Makai and Pearl Islanders. In fact 
they are a mix of both people and many others, 
therefore some of them even have fair eyes 
and hair. They will be suspicious but not 
outright hostile. If PCs say they are here to 
meet the high priest of Tuawo-ki, they will 



warn them of his evil ways, and the reaction 
will be identical if PCs say they are after the 
green dragon Kumatun. They do not have 
much in weapons and magic, and are too 
scared of the priest or the dragon to 
accompany PCs, but they'll offer food, water 
and everything they have (even magical 
objects, if the DM wishes). They could also 
provide a guide to lead them to Tuawo-ki in 
just one day and half. 

'Cuawo-ki 

This town is similar to Kamawi, but larger 
and built on the northern shore of a small 
lake (1 mile long, half a mile wide). The 
people inhabiting it are apparently similar to 
those in Kamawi, but the truth is that the 
priest and several other chiefs and warriors 
are aranea in disguise. The people of Tuawo- 
ki know that their leaders are aranea and, as 
followers of Korotiku, they are proud of it, 
but do not share this information with 
foreigners. PCs will be quickly lead to the 
high priest, who will be willing to share 
information about their neighbours. He'll tell 
them that the medusas, the pirates, the 
Twaelar empire generals and the dragon 
Kumatun are all power hungry psychopaths 
that would like nothing better than to 
conquer and pillage all the others, but they 
can't as their powers are, at the moment, 
balanced. He'll also tell them that the humans 
of Kamawi are dangerous cultists of undersea 
monsters who perform human sacrifices at 
the first chance they get, even if he, the high 
priest, has done his best to redeem them. All 
this is perfectly true. If the PCs say they are 
after the pirates or after Kumatun, the high 
priest will offer any aid he can, as provisions, 
potions and scrolls, but will warn them about 
the power of the dragon and of the black 
wizard that leads the Octopus. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"C17G "Ciinee Stanfiowens 




The idol the medusas want stolen is kept in 
the high priest's house and it's what has kept 
the town safe for centuries, as it has the power 
of boosting the abilities (+3 to all 
characteristics and rolls) of any person born 
within 300 feet from it. The large high priest 
house is almost always inhabited by him, his 
wife, two children (teenagers), all of whom 
are aranea, 2 acolytes and 3 warriors (all 
humans). During the night the aranea will be 
in their natural form. The idol is also protected 
by a magical alarm and it's a spider figurine 
weighing 10 pounds, so stealing it is not an 
easy task. If the PC's manage that anyway, they 
could be chased by the inhabitants, but a few 
moments before they are surrounded a portal 
will open in the earth below them and a pixie 
and a pooka with lead them to safely through 
it. The medusas were in fact scrying them. 



HYig KuMa Swaiwp 

If instead PCs have accepted the other 
mission, to slay Kumatun, or hope to gain the 
aid of the dragon against the pirates (the high 
priest of Tuawo-ki will tell them that's 
possible) the swamp could be reached in a 1 
day walk with a Tuawo-ki guide, who'll leave 
them on the fringe of it. By day, lizardmen 
warriors will soon surround them and lead 
them to the dragon. By night, they could try 
to sneak to his lair, which is not an easy task. 

The lair is a deep ravine in the swamp, hidden 
by trees and surrounded by a town inhabited 
by lizardmen, troglodytes and gatormen. 
Kumatun is a 13HD Large Green Dragon, who 
will call his minions immediately if attacked, 
unless PC's find a way to seal his lair. Even 
so, he has items and magic and shouldn't be 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CI7G "Ciinee Stanfiowens 




an easy fight. If they kill him, 
however, the scrying medusas 
will provide them with a portal 
to escape (and will also 
dispose of the corpse to avoid 
resurrection) . 

If PC's instead talk to Kumatun, 
he'll offer to accompany them 
himself (in human form) 
against the captain of the 
Octopus, provided that they'll 
aid him in a little mission. The 
waters south of the island 
house a Dragon Turtle that 
controls several sea snakes, 
bitter enemy of the Kraken, 
served by devilfish, who 
inhabits the water near Kamawi 
(to whom the local villagers 
offer human sacrifices). The 
PCs, provided with water 
breathing, would have to attack 
several sea snakes, 
impregnated with the Kraken's 
odour (a disgusting white 
liquid that Kamatun minions 
obtained with many losses). 
This will lead the Turtle against 
the Kraken and the two, 
Kumatun hopes, will kill each 
other. No matter how that goes 
however, the dragon will aid 
the PCs against the pirates if 
they do that for him. If they 
accept, PCs will have to fight 
at least three Sea snakes 12 feet 
long, with 6hd each. 



Ottieu LocatioNS in ttie Wateus 
auouNb ttje Piuate's Rock 



The Ruins: Mermen say they 
are old as the sea. This lost 
city was a Blackmoor fortress 
before the Great Rain of Fire, 
rumored to hold wonderful 
and dangerous secrets. 

Admiral's Graveyard: 

Centuries ago an Ierendian 
admiral managed to find 
Pirate's Rock, but didn't 
really reach it as pirates and 
mermen led his ships to their 
fate among the reefs, now 
dotted with derelict ships. 

The Blue Wind: Constantius 
and his famous ship sank 
here during a battle between 
pirates for the control of the 
rock. The derelict ship is 
rumored to hold still his 
treasure, and be haunted. 

North Reef: Years ago a 
strong ship armed by 
Ierendian and Karameikan 
merchants to strike back at 
pirates sank here, where 
many other older derelict 
ships also lay. 

The Pirate's Fate: The 

stories say that once a pirate 
wanted to secretly attack the 
island and kill the other 
captains, but his ship was 
sunk by monsters and he still 
wails under the waters on the 
darker nights. 



The Monsters Sea: This 
area is inhabited by the 
Kraken and the Dragon 
Turtle and their minions, 
see the paragraph on The 
Kuma Swamp for more 
details. 

Seamen Bed: This tower of 
the Twaelar Empire has 50 
mermen warriors, and it 
watches comings and 
goings, and activities of 
Pirate's Rock. It's so called 
by pirates because several 
ships who displeased the 
Empire were destroyed 
here. 

Red Water: Has this name 
for the same reasons as 
above, that's the main castle 
of the northern border of 
the Twaelar Empire, 500 
mermen strong plus 200 
between shark-kin, tritons, 
sea ogres, and sea giants 

Shwun and Dwyshe: These 
communities of the Twaelar 
Empire have 7,000 and 
1,000 inhabitants, 
belonging to all the 
undersea races, and many 
slaves, including some 
former air-breathing people 
now turned into 
weresharks. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie "Ciinee Stanflowens 





Map of Pirate s Rock and surrounding waters 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"Ciie "Cftnee Stanflowens 




HY)G towN of HiDeout 

At last PCs should arrive at Hideout (2 days 
walk from the Kuma Swamp), dominated by 
the fortress known as The Strong. The town 
is inhabited by a thousand people, half of 
which are usually the crew of pirate ships. The 
others are "civilians" who live in the town, 
women and children included. These people, 
as the crew of the ships, come from all over 
the Known World and beyond it, and can 
belong to any race. Some are slaves, some 
convicted criminals, some are lost children, 
some are unscrupulous traders, some are spies 
for governments or rival captains. The town 
has a lot of shops, inns, taverns but no law 
except for the historical custom, surprisingly 
respected by almost everyone, that all should 
behave well in Hideout, and not kill anyone 



except in a formal duel. In the rare case in 
which someone doesn't respect the custom, 
the locals and the crews enforce it. The town 
even has a temple, dedicated to all immortals 
and never very crowded. Entering Hideout 
unnoticed isn't very hard, but if the PCs visit 
shops and inns and speak to people, or even 
if they just linger for some hours, spies will 
eventually notice that they aren't from one 
of the accounted crews and they'll report it 
to their masters (the captains, the Twaelar 
empire, the medusas, the aranea, and 
Kumatun). Once recognized as outsiders 
they'll not be exposed, but rather contacted 
by people interested in using them against 
an enemy (see The Ships and Characters of 
Hideout, below). 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"die "Cftnee Stanflowens 




HY)G Stjips in tlie Haubouu 

The Black Octopus, fast large vessel, attack 

8, movement 7, 200 people crew, painted 
black and with black sails, heavily guarded, the 
crew on board will not reply to any question 
and will threaten who ask. Only thirty people 
are on board at any given time, the rest is 
around the town or inside The Strong, see 
below. 

There is a 40% chance that each of these ships 
are in the harbour too: 

(Names of these ships came from GAZ4 and 
GAZ9 and from the excellent article, " Mystaran 
fleets " in the Vaults of Pandius that gathered 
them. Also check the Pirate Lords article by 
Colin Wilson in issue 3 of Threshold magazine 
for more pirates and ships!) 

The Raging Dragon, fast large vessel, attack 

9, movement 6, 150 people crew, with a 
wooden dragon prow and somehow shaped 
like a dragon, with a crew of rakastas, 
phanatons and lizardmen, is rumored to be 
the ship that connects the inhuman races of 
the Thanegioth archipelago in trade and 
alliances. Captain Shanir (rakastan female F10) 
and her crew hate slavers. 

The Joyous Star, double hulled makai ship, 
attack 5, movement 8, has a crew of up to 70 
Thanegioth natives, Makai and Tanagoro, 
Captain Whaka (human male F8) and his crew 
hate slavers. 

The Blackbeard, small, fast galley, attack 3, 
movement 8, Ierendian, Captain Koon 
Blackbeard (human male F12) and his crew of 
50 men hate thyatians but occasionally engage 
in slavery. 

The Buccaneer, a small, fast galley, attack 3, 
movement 8, Minrothaddan, crew of 50, 
Captain Sian Kevran (human male T10) hate 



the Blackbeard and the Octopus, rarely 
engage in slavery. 

The Swashbuckler small fast galley, attack 

4, movement 7, Minrothaddan, crew of 50, 
Liansee Silveroak (female water elf 8) really 
hates and fight slavers. 

The Cutlass large galley, attack 7, movement 
6, Ierendian, crew of 120 men with two 
strong wizards, Captain Valen Richards 
(human male T14) has no loyally to anyone 
but hates slavers. 

The Seahawk large galley, attack 7, 
movement 6, Karameikan, crew of 130 men, 
Captain Yuri Kiros (human male F9) did 
engage in slavery in the past but has now 
become an enemy of slavers. Prefer to attack 
Karameikan and Thyatian ships but has 
Karameikans of Thyatian descent in the crew. 

The Sea Hag, attack 3, movement 7, small 
sailing ship, Karameikan, several women in 
the crew of 70, rumored to be controlled by 
inhuman creatures with mysterious purposes, 
it's unclear if Captain Saira (apparently 
human female MU10) engages in slavery. 

The Revenge war galley, attack 9, movement 
6, Ierendian, equipped with ram, artillery, 
wizards and clerics, it's the most powerful 
pirate ship of the Sea of Dread, with 200 men. 
Captain Arteos the White (human male F13) 
hunts slavers and has tried to kill the 
Octopus' captain several times. 

The Renegade, large sailing ship, attack 6, 
movement 6, Darokinian, captain Moana the 
Beardless, the Queen of the Sea (human 
female, T9), has a crew of 200 with many 
tough women, occasionally deals in slavery. 

The Barbarossa, large sailing ship, attack 

5, movement 6, Thyatian, captain Calia 
Barbarossa (human female F7) claims to be 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CI7G "Cftiiee Stanfiowens 




the descendant of the famous explorer Rory. 
Her crew of 200 has women, dwarves and 
halflings. They are loyal Thyatians and don't 
oppose the empire, but do not engage in 
slavery. 

The Pride, small sailing ship, attack 3, 
movement 7, Captain: Crommor, "The 
Hammer" (halfling male 7), has a mostly hin 
crew of 60 that opposes slavery. 

The Bounty, small sailing ship, attack 4, 
movement 7, Captain Red Rory Hackskull, "The 
halfling as tall as a dwarf (Halfling male 9), 
and his mostly hin crew of 65 oppose slavery. 

The Storm Bird, large sailing ship, attack 5, 
movement 6, Captain Jalassa Longwinkle, 
"Jalassa of the Long Whip", (halfling female 8) 
and her mostly hin crew of 2 10 oppose slavery. 

The Bloodsail, small sailing ship, attack 3, 
movement 7, Captain Mulgor Loberlinn 
(halfling male 9) and his hin crew of 70 oppose 
slavery but are ruthless with enemies. The 
Captain plans to retire soon. 

The Tortuga, small sailing ship, attack 4, 
movement 7, Captain Pablo Silverleg (human 
male F10), known as the richest pirate of the 
seas, and his crew of 100 are from the Savage 
Coast, sometimes engage in slavery. 

The Thorgrim, longship, attack 3, movement 
8, Ostlander, Captain Arik Red Eye (human 
male Fll) and his crew of 60 happily engage 
in slavery. 

The Sigfrygg, longship, attack 3, movement 
8, Ostlander, Captain Viktrum (human male 
F10) and his crew of 50 engage in slavery but 
really hate The Black Octopus, that have fought 
in the past. 

The Magnussen, longship, attack 3, 
movement 8, Captain Jutrun, a Soderfjord 



fugitive, hate Ostlanders but engage in slavery 
sometimes. 

The Audacious, small sailing ship, attack 4, 
movement 7, Captain Nicola the Red Handed 
is a Minrothaddan female, cleric 10 of an 
Outer Being, with a crew of 60. She could be 
convinced to become an ally against the Black 
Octopus, if she finds it somehow convenient 1 . 

The Cutpurse, small sailing ship, attack 3, 
movement 8. This really fast Karameikan ship 
with a 50 men crew and his captain Shiana 
(human female T12) used to be "the naval 
force" of the Specularum thieves guild, but 
recently struck a deal with the Karameikan 
government to spy on pirates. 

The Esperanza, small sailing ship, attack 3, 
movement 8. Captain Donovan Keir (human 
male F8) and his crew of 60 from the Savage 
Coast occasionally engages in small slavery. 

The Stormrider, large sailing ship, attack 7, 
movement 6, Captain Firebrand (human male 
W10) and his Alphatian crew of 150 has a lot 
of magic and engages in slavery. 

The Black Pariah, longship, attack 5, 
movement 8. Captain Olevthe Black (human 
male F7) and his 80 raiders came from 
Karameikos, Sind and the Northern Reaches, 
and they like slavery. 

Cliauacteus of HiDeout 

Krun : A big male ore, Krun is the head slaver 
of Hideout. Despite his fierce appearance, 
he's not cruel at all and has fired several 
overseers for sadistic behaviour. But he's not 
against slavery either and will report anyone 
he catches plotting against the town and the 
captains. 

1 See " Depth and Destruction from the 
Deeps " by Geoff Gander for more information 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e "Ciinee Stanflowens 




Ian: (NM) a boy of 14 years from Ierendi 
caught on a beach, Ian is a slave now 
"employed" as a longshoreman. If he has the 
chance, he'll beg the PC's to bring him back 
home to Aloysius, where he has a family 
desperately searching for him. 

Akakios: (C8) A priest of Protius from 
Kastelios in his mid forties, he manages the 
little town temple for any immortal followers 
and provides healing if needed. Does not like 
slavery much but considers it an unavoidable 
part of life, so he's not willing to fight it openly. 

Kai: (T5) Her name means sea in Makai, but 
Kai is a 19 year old girl of fair skin and black 
hair who doesn't know her origin, as she is 
the daughter of a famous prostitute, former 
owner of the local brothel. Her mother 
recently passed away and she owns it now, 
with 36 girls of different ages, almost all slaves 
or indentured servants, and 10 more people, 
mostly older women and former prostitutes, 
that clean and keep the house. Beautiful and 
delicate but as loud mouthed as the worst 
sailor, Kai displays wealth and happiness but 
doesn't really like her life 
and her trade, even though 
it might be really hard to 
get her to admit it. 

Demetrio: (W10) Owner 
and landlord of Demetrio's 
Den, the biggest and best 
inn and tavern of the 
docks, this big man of 
almost fifty years is an 
institution in Hideout and 
the unofficial mayor of the 
town. A former 
experienced warrior, he 
also enforces the informal 
laws of the town if needed. 
Known to firmly oppose 



anyone who mistreats slaves and underlings, 
but doesn't oppose the institution of slavery. 

Krag Skraddle: (T7) Arrived from Minrothad 
a few months ago in search of the treasures 
of dead pirates, Krag, who has a talking parrot 
named Paco, has become a sort of provider 
of everything on the island, through carefully 
cultivated relations with everyone, 
particularly Medusas. He also proposes 
treasure hunts on this and other islands. 
(Krag is a possible PC in XSOLO, the others 
listed on page 11 could also be used as 
characters of the island). 

HY)G StRONQ 

The great fortress that dominates Hideout 
was built originally by a forgotten culture 
(Nithians) and rebuilt several times by 
another people (Milenians) and pirate 
captains. It's now a sprawling castle with a 
hundred rooms managed by Syvin, a strict, 
35 year old woman of Darokinian origin that 
rules over 50 people between servants, 
wenches and guards. As in the past The 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e "Ciinee Stanfiowens 




Strong was a prize coveted by many pirate 
captains and attempts to conquer it provoked 
much bloodshed, it was established centuries 
ago that each captain can apply to occupy The 
Strong in turn, providing they offer a feast to 
the others and they welcome them to hide in 
it, in case the island is attacked. During this 
month The Strong belongs to the Octopus' 
captain, and The Feast for the others is due in 
three days. Captains who hate the Octopus 
will not join the feast. 

In the days and nights before the Feast, The 
Strong will be occupied by the Octopus' 
captain, his crew, and ld6 other captains of 
the ships mentioned above (provided they do 
not hate him), with a few members of their 
crew, who have matters to discuss with him 
and will dine with him. 

Alaula: (19 years, Tl) Nahi's sister lives in the 
Strong as a servant under Syvin and could be 
encountered randomly in many locations. The 
castle's staff is treated and fed well, but must 
comply to almost any captain's desire, a 
condition Alaula suffers much, therefore she 
will be extremely relieved once she sees her 
sister and will want to leave the castle with her 
immediately. 

Tlie Black Octopus Cuew 

The Captain: (Vampire, C7, M15). A former 
cleric of Nyx, he betrayed the goddess and 
joined the church of Thanatos many years ago. 
His true purpose beyond piracy and slavery is, 
eventually, to accumulate enough knowledge 
and magic to reach immortality himself, and 
become even more of a true terror of the sea 
in the process. He also plan to vampirize other 
captains to turn them into his servants. No one 
knows his original name, but that hasn't any 
magical meaning, it's just that he found it was 
no longer necessary. He owns a meticulous 



diary that records all his life and researches 
and therefore also where and to whom he 
sold the Seagull's daughters (in Pilion, 
Hattias, see below) . 

Morg: (Ogre, O10). The second, and the 
Captain's bodyguard, Morg is a really big ogre 
from the Thanegioth archipelago, his bronze 
skin covered in tattoos. Surprisingly fluent in 
Thyatian, Makai and Magoro (the dialect of 
the archipelago), Morg is however, terrible 
in battle, unyielding and extremely loyal to 
the captain. 

Shadi: (Minrothaddan female Til) An 
accomplished assassin, and former slave, 
Shadi however feels no sympathy toward the 
enslaved nor remorse toward her victims. As 
beautiful as she is dangerous, Shadi loves to 
pose as an escaped slave to stab the enemies 
of the crew in the back. She has a true 
friendship with the captain and has a strange 
yet working relationship with Andrei. 

Alexius: (Thyatian male W9). The slave 
overseer on the ship and generally the one 
that looks after everything, Alexius is around 
forty years but looks much younger. Beautiful 
and charming, he's probably the most wicked 
and sadistic of the entire crew, and loves to 
inflict pain and suffering. One of his favorite 
pastimes is to push a slave toward a truly 
heinous action in exchange for freedom, only 
to take back his word at the last moment. 
Sometimes The Captain and Morg scold and 
punish him for unnecessary cruelly. 

Andrei: (human male T7). The head cook 
and provisioner of the ship, Andrei is 
supposedly of Traladaran origin but has no 
loyally towards his countrymen. Cross-eyed, 
short, bald, with a broken nose and a shorter 
leg, he is anything but beautiful, yet extremely 
agile (and therefore often employed in 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



difficult mission or almost impossible repairs 
of sails and riggings) and the chosen lover of 
Shadi. Andrei isn't really cruel, but worships 
Shadi and the Captain as gods, and would 
commit any crime if they order it. 

The rest of the crew: The Black Octopus has 
a 200 person crew. Around 50 of them, (43 
males and 7 females) are experienced (Lvl 3-8) 
warriors or thieves from all the Known World 
and beyond, that will fight for the Captain to 
the death or near to it (morale 10-12), as he 
always treated them very well. The other 100 
of them (85 males and 15 females) are mostly 
sailors with not much experience of fighting 
(Lvl 1-2) . They'll fight with the rest of the crew 
but will bolt in difficult situations (morale 6-8). 
The last 50 (33 males and 17 females) are 
former slaves, castaways, prostitutes or very 
young ship's boys (Lvl 0-1) who will try not to 
fight at all or will mount only a symbolic 
defence (morale 3-4). As the ship is a sort of 
moving village there are even two toddlers and 
5 children (less than 10 years old, 2 males and 
3 females). PC's should realize that only a 
minority of these people (20%) could be 
considered evil, even if almost all of them are 
aware of the nature and the patron of The 
Captain. A few of them are even known to be 
compassionate with slaves, but not to the point 
of betraying the ship by freeing them. 

Only a small minority of the crew (around 5%) 
is truly unhappy on the ship and will escape 
if given the chance, but another 25% could 
betray the Captain if offered enough money. 

In these days 15% of the crew will be guarding 
the ships in the harbour, 10 of them 
experienced warriors, 35% of them will be in 
Town (but will sleep at The Strong) and 50% 
will be inside The Strong, 30 of them 
experienced warriors. Night shifts of 15 
experienced warriors will always be awake 



during the night, as The Captain is (because 
he sleeps by day), reinforced by 10 resident 
guards of the castle. 

How ttje PC's caN win 

Besides accepting the medusas help (a course 
of action that would however earn the PCs 
the dangerous hostility of the aranea and the 
dragon), PCs could kill The Captain, steal his 
diary and/or destroy The Black Octopus in 
several ways. Many of the people and captains 
described above could help in a secret, by 
night attack on The Strong (an open attack 
is prohibited by the informal rules of the 
island), but the only things PCs need to do 
to fulfil their initial purpose is to free Aluana 
and read the Black Octopus' diary. If they 
steal the diary the Octopus will eventually be 
able to track it and will pursue them with his 
ship, if the PCs weren't able to damage it 
somehow. The Hope of Freedom is as fast as 
The Black Octopus, so he could fail to reach 
the PCs, depending on navigation's random 
events and incidents. PCs could choose to do 
battle, but only if they have obtained the help 
of other captains, otherwise it would be a 
suicidal choice given the superior strength in 
crew, artillery and hull of the Octopus. 

Eventually, whenever they go, the Octopus 
will reach them to retrieve his precious diary. 
Clever PCs may also be able to negotiate with 
him, but remember that the final goal of the 
Hope of Freedom crew will be the end of the 
Black Octopus and the death of its captain. 
However, if the PCs free Aluana and look at 
his diary, but do not steal it, or leave it behind 
somewhere in Hideout, the Octopus will not 
bother to pursue them (he'll simply attack 
them if he see them, or the Hope, again 
somewhere). He'll pursue them if they kill 
one of his lieutenants mentioned above 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CI7G "Ciinee Stanfiowens 




(Morg, Shadi or Alexius, that he consider 
friends) or more than five people of his crew, 
even ship's boys. 

If confronted about slavery, the Octopus will 
reply with utter disdain. 



"Ah, do you paladines think that I'm the 
Evil? You do know that slavery is a lawful 
trade in many countries. And do you really 
think the nations that forbade slavery are 
free of exploitations? Do you really think 
that if you kill me today, another one will 
not do the same things I do, right from 
tomorrow, but with much more cruelly? I 
care about the slaves more than nature, or 
the Immortals, care about each living 
being. And why should they? A single living 
being is irrelevant. If you do not realize 
that, you're just so stupid and clueless you 
deserve to die." 



Surprisingly, if asked about the three girls, the 
Black Octopus will remember them. 



"That's all? You could have asked. We sold 
them in Pilion, Hattias, to a merchant by 
the name of Batzas. That was because he 
had a decent reputation, the others of that 
batch were sold in Terentias." 



The information is completely true. 



Full attack on Piuate's Rock 

If, after the adventure, the PCs involve one 
of the Known World fleets in a full scale 
attack on Pirate's Rock (Karameikos, the 
Five Shires, Ierendi and Darokin would be 
particularly interested, as they are often 
victims of piracy), that could lead to a 
major naval battle involving also the 
Twaelar empire (probably allied with the 
pirates), maybe Thyatis and the inhabitants 
of the island. Anything could happen in 
this scenario that could provide plenty of 
opportunities for adventurers. 



ACC THREE 

Whatever happens for now with the Octopus, 
the PCs and the Hope should eventually go 
to Pilion, Hattias, to retrieve The Three 
Starflowers, The Seagull's daughters. As the 
Hope is considered an enemy ship in Thyatis, 
Nahi will suggest changing/concealing the 
name or to dock outside the city. Random 
sea events could apply to this trip too, see 
above. 

PilioN pout, Hattias, 
EMpiue of HYfyaMs 

Pilion is an average port and a medium city 
of more than 10,000 inhabitants, at the mouth 
of the river of the same name. Weapons and 
similar, like wands, cannot be carried around 
the city, and magic cannot be cast, but knives 
and daggers are permitted. A calm city, Pilion 
has however a busy market right by the docks, 
where the girls, only three years old, were 
sold twenty years ago to a merchant named 
Leon Batzas. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"Ciie "Ciinee Stanfiowens 




Batzas is still alive, now over fifty, and very 
well known in town. His house is prominent 
on the market plaza and it usually has around 
twenty slaves of various ages (usually from 
babies to forty years old, sometimes older, 
even entire families) and 20 other people 
between clerks, guards, his personal slaves 
and his family. Forget the cliche of the fat, 
slimy slavers with overseers equipped with 
nasty whips and slaves in chains or cages, 
because Batzas is thin, well dressed and the 
very image of civility and politeness, his guards 
are discreet and slaves usually aren't even 
bound, but simply watched by the guards or 
kept in closed rooms. They aren't indeed 
displayed openly to the mob, a thing Batzas 
consider inappropriate, but only to motivate 
buyers inside the house. If PCs go to him, 
Batzas will offer them wine, tea or coffee and, 
if they tell him who they are looking for, he'll 
be happy to help and will go looking in his 
older records. 

If confronted about slavery, Batzas will 
maintain that his trade is legal in the empire 
and he always did his best to treat slaves well. 
Also, he'll point out the < insert the PCs 
nation > hasn't slavery, but has several forms 
of serfdom that could be even worse. He'll 
eventually remember the little girls and explain 
they were indeed sold to him by shady people 
and, while he was almost sure that the sellers 
were criminals, he bought them anyway 
because he feared leaving them in their hands. 
The girls were afraid but were able to explain 
that they were captured with their parents, but 
as much as he tried, Batzas could not locate 
them in the city and the girls weren't able to 
explain from where they came. (True, as their 
parents were sold in Terentias, where their 
mother soon died of illness, while the Seagull 
was soon sent to Machetos) . 



He decided to sell them only to childless 
women, hoping they would adopt them and 
doing his best to check their stories, as he is 
sadly aware that sometimes people buy 
children with such excuses but very different 
intentions. In short Batzas could very well be 
defined an hypocrite, but for the PCs could 
be difficult to label him as evil, as he is an 
outstanding member of the city, he does a 
lot of charily, freed many slaves, is esteemed 
by his peers and beloved by his family (wife, 
two sons, four daughters of which two are 
adopted slaves) and employees, and even his 
slaves speak only good of him. Killing him 
would obviously be seen as an heinous crime 
in the Thyatian Empire, one that authorities 
and relatives will go out of their way to 
punish, like sending bounty hunters after the 
PCs to foreign countries. That could also 
show PCs how much slavery becomes a grey 
area where it's legal. 

FiNbiNQ luiNa (lueNe) 

Irina, the first daughter, according to Batzas, 
was sold to a rich woman of the city of Hattias 
in her forties, who left a name, Agathe Arendt, 
and an address. There is a 32 mile long road, 
good and safe, from Pilion to Hattias City, 
only 1 day walking. Hattias City has more than 
30,000 inhabitants and is the major centre of 
the region. The locals are a bit distrustful of 
foreigners, but if the PCs are polite and 
respect the local laws they'll have no 
problems. The city is unwalled due to an old 
rebellion against the Empire, but there is a 
guard post on the road where visitors must 
leave their weapons and armor, including 
knives, wands and even spellbooks. It's also 
forbidden to cast any magic, except in official 
temples or in the small local wizard's guild. 
It's not impossible to sneak into the city, but 
guards will stop people carrying weapons 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e "Ciinee Stanfloweits 




and arrest them. At the address the woman 
gave Batzas there is a butcher. If asked, he'll 
explain his family lives here for 50 years, so 
the woman gave a false address. The butcher 
has never heard the name, but Arendt is a 
common family name and he can point PCs to 
such a family. Indeed, on a nearby street lives 
the tailor Augustus Arendt. A friendly man, 
he'll immediately ask his wife and daughters 
if there is an Agathe among their numerous 
cousins and relatives, but they cannot think of 
any, not even among the in-laws. 

The family name seems to be a dead end, but 
clever PCs could think of asking in local inns 
and taverns about notorious women named 
Agathe who live in the city. This way they can 
discover that at least two exist: one is Agathe 
Von Brun, wife of a famous magistrate. The 
other is Dame Agathe, owner of "Die Zuflucht" 
(The Refuge), a high class brothel. A quick 
inquiry near Von Brun house will prove that 
there isn't any Irina inside: the couple has two 
sons but no daughters and they never had a 
servant named Irina. At The Refuge however 
there is a 23 year old girl named Irene. If PCs 
ask Dame Agathe about her, she'll say she 
didn't buy her, but rather saved her from 
wandering the streets as an orphan. That's a 
lie, Irene, an extremely beautiful, pale, red- 
haired and elegant girl, is indeed Irina, one of 
The Seagull's daughters. Dame Agathe 
obviously didn't adopt her. She did keep her 
well fed, dressed and educated, but she also 
pushed her to prostitution very soon. Irene is 
now one of the stars of the house, adored and 
covered in gifts by clients, but she does not 
really like her life. Yet, she doesn't know 
anything else but the house where she grew 
up, and never thought to go away. 

As Dame Agathe will be soon suspicious of the 
PCs intentions, and she has 7 well trained and 



armed guards, and many friends among the 
authorities and the powerfuls, PCs should 
find some clever way to speak freely with 
Irene in private. That's not very difficult, as 
she is free to, and often does, walk around 
the city by day, alone or with other girls. To 
prove she is The Seagull's daughter, Nahi will 
show Irene his diary. 

The Seagull's Diary 

An old, worn out leather book with many 
pages, the diary not only describes in detail 
all the voyages and missions of The Seagull 
and The Hope, all the allies, the enemies and 
the lost members of the crew, but also all the 
details he could remember about his wife and 
daughters. 

It's obvious that this section of the diary was 
compiled painfully and maniacally by him for 
years, as he tried to remember, with many 
corrections, and describe all the minute 
details of the family he lost. How each child 
smiled, the first words each one said, the hue 
of their hair, many good sketches of them, 
down to a map of the birthmarks of each girl. 
Irina indeed is described as having a small 
one on her left cheek, as Irene has. The 
section also contains three dried out 
starflowers and a nursery rhyme each girl will 
be able to remember. In fact this particular 
memory led all three of them to become very 
good singers (bards) . 

Irene's reaction 

Irene will be incredulous at first but 
eventually she will accept reading the diary, 
and then she'll be devastated. She'll leave The 
Refuge immediately, not even taking clothes, 
to hide anonymously with the diary in an inn 
by the outskirts of the city. Nahi will leave the 
diary with her, but Irene, even if offered, will 
refuse hospitality at the PCs inn and 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie "Cftnee Stanflowens 




disappear for two days. In the meantime, 
Dame Agathe will be worried and angry. She'll 
track the PCs and will ask them about Irene. 
She'll not be satisfied by any answer and will 
send authorities to search for them, will be 
present at the search and will ask for their 
arrest. If PCs remain calm, the guards will not 
arrest them, but they will post a hidden guard 
to follow them. 

Now the PCs should try to retrieve their 
possessions, leave the city with Irene and reach 
The Hope in Pilion's port as fast as they can. 
After the two days alone, she'll be eager to 
escape and start a whole new life. Irene is still 
technically a slave, so she'll be labeled a 
fugitive, and risk several lashes if caught, at 
the very least. The Empire is well known to go 
out of its way to retrieve fugitives, as they're 
considered to be harmful to social order. 

FinDinq Dana (Claua) 

Dara, the second daughter, was sold by Batzas 
to the Korbhild, a rich Hattian family that lives 
in Port Hatti. The Hope could reach the city, 
but now the ship will be even more likely to 
have been reported to port authorities 
throughout the Empire, so Nahi herself will 
suggest docking at some distance. 

Port Hatti has more than 10,000 inhabitants, 
roughly like Pilion, but it has more traffic as is 
well connected with Hattias City and just in 
front of Thyatis City, on the other side of the 
sea channel known as Vanya's Girdle. As in 
Pilion, daggers and staffs are the only weapons 
people can openly carry in the streets. 

The Korbhild are well known in the city and 
any passerby could point PCs to their big 
mansion in a hilly district. Servants of the 
house, and guards, will however chase PCs 
away, obviously disgusted by their foreigners 



looks, and will not answer any question. 
They'll have to use stealth. 

Dara lives inside but is now called Clara. She 
is very similar to Irene and can be easily 
recognized. Once a day, in the morning, she 
goes to the market with Ymir, a tall blonde 
slave from the Northern Reaches, and Karin, 
an older free woman, head cook of the house. 
Karin however cannot be bribed and will send 
away anyone approaching Clara. Ymir is very 
strong but has no weapons. The easiest thing 
to do would be to kidnap Clara, and Irene 
will insist the PCs do that, but they could try 
a different approach, like slipping her a note 
explaining the story. 

Clara's reaction 

However Clara gets to know her story, she'll 
be initially as incredulous as Irene was, yet 
she'll believe if she reads The Seagull diary 
(because a birthmark she has on the thigh is 
described and she also vaguely remembers a 
red haired woman, her mother). Clara 
however doesn't want to leave. She is in love 
with Julius Korbhild, the younger heir of the 
house, and they have had a secret relationship 
for seven years. Julius has promised to free 
and marry her, or escape with her if his 
parents do not consent. 

Irene will insist on taking her away 
nevertheless, she'll do her best to convince 
the PCs and if they still do not want to, she'll 
even try to seduce one she thinks is the leader 
to take him to her side. She'll maintain 
stubbornly that the one Clara thinks is her 
lover is just her master, taking advantage of 
her naivety. 

Unfortunately, Irene is completely right. In a 
year, Julius will marry a noble girl, and plans 
are already in motion. He just wants to keep 
Clara as a servant and mistress. The problem 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e "Ciinee Stanflowens 




is, once Clara discovers that, she'll not escape 
or give up, but will insist that Julius marry her, 
to the point of appealing to Jon and Silvia, 
Julius' parents. The couple has always treated 
Clara almost as a daughter, but she is indeed 
too candid. The two are Storm Soldier 
sympathizers and will have her secretly killed 
rather than see their son mix their blood with 
a slave. 

PCs should find a way to open Clara's eyes, 
because if they bring her away by force, she'll 
run away at the first chance she gets (The 
Korbhild will not search for her too much, as 
she's only a slave to them, but will report her 
as a fugitive to the authorities). In the end 
Clara will be devastated to realize that Julius 
and his parents do not really care about her, 
and it will take many months for her to 
overcome the delusion. Irene will try to 
comfort her newfound sister as best as she can 
while Clara struggles with depression. 

FinDinq LilyaNa 
(LiDia/LuciaNNa) 

Lilyana, the third sister, was sold to Corelius 
Antinoe, a well known mediator from Thyatis 
City who purchased her for an undisclosed 
buyer. Batzas accepted that only because he 
received several official assurances and 
recommendations about the unknown buyer 
from his friend Corelius and from the highest 
magistrates of Pilion. Indeed the mediator 
bought Lilyana for one of the most important 
families of the Empire, and they adopted her 
as their own daughter, never telling her the 
truth. As the adoptive mother of Lilyana was 
red-haired too, she could easily pass as the 
natural mother, and no one ever disputed that. 
As she also feigned pregnancy, only she, her 
husband, a trusted maidservant and the 
mediator knew the truth. Since then all these 



four people have died, and the secret died 
with them, until now. 

Marcus Antinoe, son of Corelius, lives in one 
of the best districts of Thyatis City and does 
the same work his father did. The truth PCs 
are searching for is buried in his old archives. 
Marcus will not grant access to them, for any 
reason, unless there is the written order of a 
magistrate (hard for PC's to obtain, but could 
be done with an handsome bribe). Marcus 
himself will not accept any bribe, either, but 
he can be blackmailed, as he has several night 
vices (masochism and drugs) he doesn't want 
the world to know. A third way could be to 
break into his archive, a feat a good thief 
could manage, as Marcus' archive has good 
locks and even one trap, but no magical 
alarms. Either way the archive just says Lilyana 
was sold to a woman that signed the deal as 
Costantina Teklanis. She, now deceased, was 
the trusted maidservant of a very important 
family, and her name can be traced to them 
in public state archives. Now it is up to the 
DM to decide the true identity of Lilyana: 

Lilyana as Lucianna Torlon 

Lucianna, wife of the emperor Eusebius 
Torion, and empress from 1012 AC, was 
officially born in 975 AC, married in 993 AC 
and has two sons, Coltius and Gabrionus, 
born in 994 and 999. If the DM has set the 
adventure in 1000AC Lilyana can be Lucianna, 
just assuming that the three girls are 25 
instead of 23 years old. In 1000AC Lucianna 
isn't empress yet, but is the wife of the official 
heir to the Empire, so one of the most 
powerful women in Thyatis. 

Lilyana as Lidia 

If the DM doesn't want to use Lucianna or if 
he has set the adventure years after 1000AC, 
Lilyana could simply be Lidia, daughter of a 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"C17G riinee Stanfiowens 




powerful, conservative senatorial family. If the 
DM wishes to add a complication and if the 
adventure is set after 1014AC, Lidia could be 
the official fiancee of Coltius, or Gabrionus, 
therefore making her a possible future 
empress. 

Life and fate of Lidia/Lucianna and her 
adoptive parents 

Either way, the adoptive parents of Lilyana 
loved her more than the world, as their only, 
precious daughter, and she loved them back 
as well. A great tragedy struck the family 
around eight years ago, when Julian, Lilyana's 
adoptive father, an admiral of the navy, was 
killed fighting pirates in the Sea of Dread. The 
pirate that killed him was the notorious 
Seagull. Antonina, Lilyana's adoptive mother, 
a strong woman with magical abilities that was 
an adventurer in her youth, was devastated 
and could not find peace. She left her young 
beloved daughter (Lidia/Lucianna was around 
15 years old at the time) with the only people 
she trusted completely, the imperial family, 
and armed a ship to hunt her husband's killer. 
Eusebius, who considered Julian and Antonina 
precious allies, prayed in-vain to her to wait 
for a full fleet to be armed, but she had fresh 
clues about the Seagull's location and didn't 
want to lose him. Eusebius sent ships after her 
almost immediately, but it was useless. 
Antonina found The Seagull first, almost sank 
his ship and killed half of his crew, but was 
ultimately defeated. Several in the crew of The 
Hope remember very well the battle and "the 
mad, fiery woman" who accused them of 
murder. Lidia/Lucianna was obviously 
devastated to lose both her beloved parents. 
Only the love of Eusebius/Coltius saved her 
from complete despair. She and her future 
husband made a solemn vow to eventually find 
and kill the damned Seagull. They tried for 



eight years, and finally succeeded some days 
ago. A great feast is in preparation in their 
house to celebrate the event. 

Lidia/Lucianna 's reaction 

The simple feat to reach such a powerful 
woman and speak to her will be quite difficult 
for the PCs. Kidnapping her could be almost 
impossible and extremely dangerous. 
Depending on PC's actions or to DM's 
discretion, the PCs could discover the true 
story of Lidia/Lucianna before they speak to 
her. That should advise them to be very 
cautious, as they could very well imagine she 
hated The Seagull more than anyone else in 
the world. If they manage to contact her 
somehow, maybe with a letter, 
Lidia/Lucianna' s reaction will not be good. 
She'll mobilize almost the whole empire to 
capture the PCs, and her first desire will be 
to have them tortured to deny what they're 
saying. She would also want to see the Hope's 
crew beheaded to the last man and woman. 

But even if she manages to capture them, 
she'll stop just a moment before doing that, 
providing she is able to read The Seagull's 
diary (and that should happen, either if the 
PC's send it to her or if she simply seizes it) 
and she sees her sisters. In fact of the three 
girls, Lidia/Lucianna is the one who 
remembers better her natural parents, the 
nursery rhyme and the two sisters. She always 
tried to convince herself it was just a child 
fantasy, but now she cannot deny the truth 
anymore. 

The truth however will strike her as a 
mountain of lead. Her natural father, who 
she didn't even fully remembered, killed her 
adoptive parents, whom she loved so much. 
It's up to the DM to decide what would be 
her final reaction. Will she decide to kill the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"C17G "Ciinee Stanfiowens 




PC's and the Hope's crew because they know 
the truth? That action is quite unlikely because, 
despite all, she couldn't bear to kill her two 
newfound sisters, and they do know the truth 
too. Will she decide to use the magical 
resources of the Empire to erase the memories 
of her sisters and of the PC's? Will she decide 
to have the Hope's crew killed anyway? Or will 
she understand that slavery caused the whole 
tragedy and she'll begin to re-think her whole 
life, and become a powerful abolitionistic force 
within the Empire? How will her husband/lover 
Eusebius/Coltius react? Will he support her or 
this will cause a rift in the couple? Anything 
could happen, and PCs could be rewarded or 
imprisoned for some time, or even hunted by 
the whole might of the Thyatian Empire. 

Irene, for her part, has already decided she'll 
fight slavery to the end of her days. She very 
much wishes her sisters will follow her, but 
she'll fight them if she has to, and certainly 
she would not ever forgive Lidia/Lucianna if 
she has the PCs or the Hope's crew killed. 

Clara is now too broken-hearted to decide 
anything, but eventually she'll follow Irene 
and fight alongside her and the Hope's crew. 
Less willing than Irene, however, she still 
wishes to marry and have children one day. 

Regardless of what she'll decide about the 
Hope's crew and the PC's, Lidia/Lucianna will 
however use her powers to have her sisters 
freed immediately and, as much as she wishes 
to welcome them in her house, she'll let them 
leave if they want, even if they'll leave as 
enemies. 



To My Stauf Iowgrs 

(Last page of The Seagull's diary) 

Sometimes it happens that slaves are treated 
well. Sometimes they even earn their 
freedom. Every night I pray, my beloved 
daughter, that this happened to you. I pray 
you are happy somewhere, and loved, not 
remembering me at all. If I found you so one 
day, I could be tempted to leave without 
telling you, and be relieved at last. But if 
you are a slave still, my beloved daughter, 
and your life is sad as so often is the life of 
a slave, please find in your heart the strength 
to forgive me. I did not rest one day in my 
search for you. I looked everywhere for you 
and I raged and cried every night for you. 

I pray to find you before I die, my beloved 
daughter, but if I die before I find you, I 
pray others will rescue you for me. And 
if they cannot find you either, then the 
world be damned, the immortals be 
damned, I be damned and may I return 
as a vengeful spirit to burn the souls of 
those who did you harm. 

Every night I pray, my beloved daughter, 
that you may one day know I loved you 
so much it hurts. 

Yes, my beloved daughter, I know the 
world has slavery and has evil, but it also 
has Hope and it has you. Mostly I pray, 
my beloved daughters, that you are 
united, or will be united again one day, 
because if you stay together and trust 
each other, you'll be so much stronger 
than any evil. 

Please, Never forget that. 

Your father, 

from a faraway place and time. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




Adapting the p 

* * <TM$ to m 



Savage 

Adventure Path 




by C. Richard Davies & David Keyser 



FOREWORD: 



From 2006 to 2007, Paizo, the publishers of 
Dragon and Dungeon Magazine at the time, 
released the Savage Tide adventure path. 
Having had success with two previous 
adventure paths (a linked set of adventures 
forming a campaign) Paizo decided one of the 
cornerstones for this new adventure path 
would be to revisit the Isle of Dread. 

This raised particular interest for Mystara fans, 
as the original adventure module XI The Isle 
of Dread, had first introduced the lands of the 
D&D Known World beyond Karameikos, 
providing the basis for what would later be 
known as the Mystara setting. There was some 
subsequent disappointment when it was 
announced that Paizo would not be using 
Mystara itself, instead placing the Isle of Dread 
in the Greyhawk campaign setting. 

However, Paizo did make an effort to utilize 
some classic monsters of Mystara lore, as well 
as stay true to the presentation of the Isle of 
Dread as presented in the original adventure. 
In the end, we Mystara fans got what may have 
been the best possible outcome. A set of twelve 
adventures that have compatibility with the 
Mystara setting, without being actually set 
there and thereby creating yet another variant 
version of the Mystara setting (such as the 
BECMI and 2E AD&D versions). 

The Savage Tide AP is contained in twelve 
adventures and two campaign background 



articles within issues #139-#150 of Dungeon 
Magazine, plus an article series called Savage 
Tidings which appeared in issues #348-#359 
of Dragon Magazine, as well as a Savage Tide 
Players Guide to introduce players to their 
starting city as well as provide some 
customization options for starting PCs. A few 
additional articles related to Savage Tide 
appeared in Dragon Magazine in addition to 
Savage Tidings. 

This article has made an effort to supplement 
and improve the first eight adventures in the 
Savage Tide campaign, with an eye toward 
incorporating Mystara developments as much 
as possible, both TSR as well as fan-based 
materials. The first two adventures are set in 
and around the base city of Sasserine, while 
the third adventure incorporates the travel 
from Sasserine to the Isle of Dread. The 
subsequent four adventures are set on the 
Isle of Dread. 

Statistics are all provided for 3-5 D&D, with 
the intent to come as close as possible to 
BECMI D&D "feel" as possible. In the 3.5 stat 
blocks, skill numbers incorporate the 
allocation of skill points as well as ability 
score bonuses, racial score bonuses, synergy 
bonuses and template bonuses. Situational 
bonuses are not incorporated into the stat 
block. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




DUNQEON MAGAZINE #139: Suggested DavaNia LocatioNS 



BACKDROP: SASSERINE 

The first article in Dungeon provides a 
backdrop containing DM information for the 
starting city of the Savage Tide campaign, the 
city of Sasserine. As it is an independent 
city-state dropping the city onto Mystara works 
well for the continent of Davania. The timeline 
included below is designed with that continent 
in mind. 

Should you wish to set it in Brun, you could 
simply adjust the first two adventures to fit 
into any coastal city on that continent, the 
countries of Ierendi, Minrothad and even 
Thyatis would be good candidates. Should you 
set it in an already established city of Mystara, 
I would recommend abandoning the Sasserine 
background for the most part, just using those 
elements that are key to the first two 
adventures. 



Sasserine is located in jungle and swamp 
terrain with a main walled city and 
surrounding developed lands covered with 
plantations that support the city. One 
candidate for the placement of Sasserine is 
the swamp hex on the coastline north of the 
Kingdom of Emerond, leaving Sasserine 
between Ravenscarp and Garganin. This 
places it only 700 miles south of the 
Thanegioth Archipelago which makes sense 
for establishment of a colony, although the 
third adventure will need an explanation for 
taking a longer roundabout route should you 
wish to play the adventure as is. 

The second candidate is to place it in the 
swamp hex on the coastline just west of 
Yasuko Tribal Lands and seven hexes east of 
the town Manacapuru. This places it south of 
the Pearl Islands and farther east of 
Ravenscarp. This provides a longer route that 
fits better to reach the Thanegioth 




1) sasecRiNe - betwccN RavcNscanp aNt> QaueaNiN 

2) sasseniNe - west of yaeuko Tnibai laNbs 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




Archipelago in the third adventure but isolates 
Sasserine more from the other city-states and 
empire powers on Brun. 

While the timeline works for both locations, 
it is a better fit for the more western swamp 
hex. Should you choose the more eastern 
location, you might wish to substitute Thyatis 
or Alphatia for Hule as the first major power 
that attempted to conquer Sasserine by sea, 
or disregard that part of the history altogether. 
There would also be less trade with city-states 
like Kastelios and Garganin. 



riMeliNe 

The Sasserine timeline used below is designed 
for kicking off the Savage Tide campaign 
shortly after 1021 AC on the continent of 
Davania. This places the start of the campaign 
after the last date of the published fan-made 
Mystaran almanacs. The Cerulean Guard in 
this timeline is referred to as the Crimson 
Guard in the Mystaran almanacs. This is to 
avoid confusion with the Crimson Fleet, a 
powerful pirate navy that serves as one of the 
main adversaries in the Savage Tide campaign. 
The Crimson Fleet was created for the Savage 
Tide Adventure Path and this conversion does 
not adapt or map the Crimson Fleet to any 
already established Mystaran pirates from 
other sources. Instead it imports the characters 
and strongholds of the Crimson Fleet "as is" 
into Mystara. 



292 AC Sasserine Founded by Isle of Dawn 
colonists with some families from the 
Northern Reaches as well as a few small 
clans of gnomes. 

656 AC Huleans launch first of many attacks, 
destroying Teraknian's Arch 
719 AC Minrothad water elf ship wrecks 
near Sasserine 

720-740 AC Minrothad opens up a trade 
route with Sasserine, Minrothad immigrants 
begin to trickle in to the city 
843 AC Last attack by Hulean forces repelled 
850 AC Hule loses contact with Garganin 

970 AC Emperor Thincol is crowned, 
Thyatis launches expeditions to explore 
southern continent of Davania 

971 AC Thyatis first discovers the city of 
Sasserine 

975 AC Thyatis invades Sasserine and 
conquers it 

985 AC Emperor Thincol begins a major 
expansion of the Ochalean town 
Wumingdou, transporting a significant 
population of workers, specialists and 
soldiers to begin a colonization campaign 
on Davania. A few skilled and enterprising 
citizens from Sasserine relocate to 
Wumingdou for the opportunities. 
988 AC Thincol's campaign to conquer the 
Hinterlander tribes to the east of Sasserine 
begins with the establishment of the fortress 
Fire-Height. The city that grows from this 
initial base eventually acquires the name 
Ravenscarp. 

1006-1010 AC Sasserine citizens begin 
rebelling more and more, leading to 
Thyatian curfews, crackdowns and 
oppression 

1007 AC Ochalea and the Pearl Islands 
declare independence from Thyatis 
1010 AC Heldannic Knights first discover 
Sasserine from one of their flying warships 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savaqe "Cibe AOaptatioN 




1011 AC Four Heldannic flying warships 
provide support and assistance as Sasserine 
rebels against Thyatian occupying force, 
Thyatis troops expelled completely in a 
fortnight and Sasserine declares 
independence once again. Heldannic 
Knights establish an embassy within 
Sasserine. 

1011 AC The Barony of Fiorenza is 
established by Baron Justinian Silvestro of 
Thyatis, approximately 120 miles west along 
the coastline to Ravenscarp (closer to 
Sasserine). 

1012 AC First celebration of Independence 
Day (what will be the holiday celebrated in 
the second Savage Tide adventure) 

1015 AC Thyatian representatives approach 
the Dawn Council seeking a trade 
alliance/agreement. Sasserine spies learn the 
Thyatian empire is at war with some sort of 
naval power, and the Crimson Fleet is taking 
advantage and pirating the trade routes 
between Davania and Brun. The Dawn 
Council rebuffs Thyatis, preferring exclusive 
trading with Minrothad and the Heldannic 
Knights, as well as the city states to the west. 
1015-1016 AC Lavinia Vanderboren arrives 
in the town of Wumingdou as a young 
teenager to study at a prestigious academy 
there for the next five years. 

1016 AC The city-state of Kastelios 
establishes a trade treaty with Thyatis and 
begins opening its trade routes with Thyatis. 

1017 AC Thyatian Hinterlands are politically 
re-organized. Cittanova, further west of 
Fiorenza and at the cape marking the 
northern tip of Davania, is also 
acknowledged as a barony. Ravenscarp is the 
capital of a Thyatian exarchate equal to the 
large dominions in their homeland, while 
the colonial regions outside the 
exarchate (called Davania Superior) are 



broken into several territories, including 
Thratia(the south region) and 
Torionensis(the northwest region closest to 
Sasserine). 

1017 AC The Hinterlander tribes not 
subjugated by Thyatis in Thratia begin a 
powerful offensive to threaten Davania 
Superior. Sasserine and Emerond are 
approached by the tribes for an alliance, but 
are turned down. A few mercenary 
companies from Sasserine are hired out 
however to fight the Thyatians. 

1017 AC Colonists from the city of Kastelios 
found a colony on the western most island 
of the Thanegioth Archipelago, Mykonos. 

1018 AC The Thyatian expedition led by 
Julius Ambrosius discovers the ruins of an 
ancient city as they sail up the Black River, 
but are driven off by Manacapuru tribesmen. 
1018 AC Seeing the wealth Kastelios is 
making, Sasserine opens a limited trade 
agreement with Thyatis. 

1018 AC The Vanderborens depart Sasserine 
on two ships to found a colony on the Isle 
of Dread. 

1019 AC The Thratians, led by an elite 
adventuring company called the 
Nightstalkers, score some significant 
victories. A non-standard Thyatian force, not 
associated with Thyatian' s military legions or 
navy, called the Cerulean Guard is 
summoned to Davania to counter the 
Nightstalkers. The momentum shifts several 
times as the Cerulean Guard uses even more 
potent magic than the Nightstalkers, 
although the Nightstalkers counter once 
again through feints, traps, ambushes and 
teleportation. The final battle sees the 
Nightstalkers captured when two dragons 
and anti-teleportation magic are used. The 
Thratians retreat from Davania Superior. 
1019 AC Kastelios sends representatives to 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AoaptatioN 
mm 

SaaftflAftRfuvu 




all city-states and powers in the region, 
warning of a new threat to the west where 
lizard man tribes have been uniting and 
expanding. Thyatis offers to join any mutual 
defense alliance but both Sasserine and 
Emerond opt for a wait and see position. 
Once again some mercenary companies 
from Sasserine depart for where coin can 
be earned, this time to the west. 

1019 AC The Vanderborens conclude 
peaceful negotiations with the natives living 
on the peninsula and islands on the 
southeast corner of the Isle of Dread, and 
found the colony of Farshore on the small 
unoccupied island of Temute. They leave 
the colony to return to Sasserine to 
resupply, but lose one of their ships on the 
return journey. Further misfortunes 
increase the delay of their return. 

1020 AC Rumors begin spreading of ancient 
ruins and hidden treasures in Ravenscarp 
and Sasserine. Several adventuring and 
mercenary companies launch expeditions 
to explore and loot whatever can be found 
close to the coastline in Manacapuru tribal 
lands, many do not return. Some Ochalean 
ogre mages make the trip and begin 
infiltrating Manacapuru society to make 
their looting ancient lore easier. 

1020- 1021 AC Lavinia Vanderboren returns 
to Sasserine. 

102 1- 1022 AC Beginning of the Savage Tide 
campaign... Vanderborens are murdered and 
their daughter Lavinia discovers the hidden 
colony and makes plans to return to 
reinforce the colony. 

1022 AC A small earthquake allows access 
to the Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan, the 
PCs arrive not too long after with a map 
pointing them to this specific shrine. 



Queyliawk Qobs to Mystaua 
iMMORtals SubstitutioN ^able 

Most of the major religions/gods in Sasserine 
come from the 3.5 Players Handbook. Here 
is a quick suggested substitution list. 



Sasserine 
religion/god 


Mystara Immortal 
recommendation 


Kord 


Thor 


Fharlanghn 


Asterius 


Olidammara/ 
St Worgar 


Korotiku (or Loki) 


Pelor 


Ixion 


Weejas 


Hel (or Nyx) 


Nerull 


Thanatos 


Vecna 


Masauwu (or Loki) 



Table 1: Grey hawk Gods to Mystara Immortals 

The Azure Cathedral in Sasserine is primarily 
dedicated to Protius, but includes shrines to 
other Immortals important to the sea, such 
as the triton Immortal Polonius the Designer. 
St Cuthbert can be renamed to another saint 
who was a prominent cleric who believed in 
the philosophy of Law but did not become an 
Immortal. The clerics of that church may be 
0-level clerics or may gain their spells from 
the domain of Law as envisioned in Mentzer's 
early BECMI D&D. 

The Church of the Whirling Fury is dedicated 
to Gwynharwyf 1 . Incorporating Gwyharwyf as 
is can be done by making her a little known 
Immortal of the Sphere of Energy. As an 
alternative, should you include the water elves 

1 A god detailed in the v3.5 Book of Exalted 
Deeds. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




of Minrothad into Sasserine you could 
substitute Carlitha Starbrow instead and have 
her be a rival to Demogorgon and his shadow 
pearls, seeing them as a blasphemy of her own 
Pearl of Power artifacts. Should you do this 
her church can still be only recently 
established in Sasserine, and open not just to 
elven followers but specifically to all those who 
have the foresight to perceive the danger of 
demonic influences as well as the power to 
stymie them. 

Of all these deities, only Gwynharwyf plays a 
direct role in the Savage Tide AP as it is written. 
The rest have minor roles or background roles. 

Otlieu SubstitutioNS 

The Scarlet Brotherhood, a villainous 
organization from Greyhawk, has an embassy 
in Sasserine due to its role in liberating 
Sasserine from occupation. The organization 
plays a supporting role in the Savage Tide AP, 
as either a related affiliation or ally for the PCs 
or as a secondary villain. To replace the SB I 
recommend using the Heldannic Knights, who 
have an embassy in Sasserine and already have 
significant influence on the continent of 
Davania. 

The head of the noble Arabani family claims 
to have a Drow parent, for this we can 
substitute a shadow elf parent, as the 
shadowelves became widely known when they 
seized control of Alfheim. 

This article doesn't have an official adjustment 
for the City Stat block, but you can use the 
information in the character creation section 
to comprise your own as needed. 

CliauacteR CueatioN 

With the Sasserine timeline established here 
you now have most of the character races in 



the 3.5 D&D Players Handbook available to 
the city. 

For the first few centuries citizens of Sasserine 
would be those humans and gnomes that first 
colonized the land, along with some 
Hinterlanders (western location) or 
Yasuko (eastern location) that may have made 
the migration and settled in the city. The next 
wave of immigration would be Minrothad 
immigrants, with Minrothad humans, water 
elves, halflings and dwarves now settling in 
the city for the first time. The years under 
Thyatis rule would leave some Thyatians 
behind, and lastly some Heldanners with the 
Heldannic Knights establishing an embassy 
in the city. 

One change I recommend for gnomish 
characters is to use the Wavecrest gnome 
build from the Stormwrack 3.5 book rather 
than the default gnome build from the PHB. 
If you have that supplement available it will 
make gnomish characters of a more nautical 
bent and more suitable for both Sasserine 
and the Savage Tide AP. Instead of their racial 
bonus applying to locathah and sahuagin(or 
goblins and kobolds in the PHB for regular 
gnomes) have it apply to kopru and a second 
aquatic race of your choice. Devilfish would 
be one possibility, shark-kin another. These 
gnomes are originally from the Falun Caverns 
who migrated to the Isle of Dawn and are 
distantly related to the sea-gnomes of 
Deepreach 2 , though both groups are unaware 
of the each other. 

For half-ores, they come from the city-state 
of Garganin with its sizable humanoid 
population. So while uncommon in 
Sasserine, trade between the cities does mean 



~~ Developed by Ohad Shaham in Deepreach 
Gazetteer 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




half-ores are known along the Davania coast 
and some reside in each city-state. Should you 
choose the location near Yasuko Tribal Lands, 
instead of Garganin there may be a few 
half-Bogdashkan ores living in Sasserine. 

As for half-elves, they do exist on the Savage 
Coast but not in Alfheim or Minrothad, so as 
a default I would recommend they do not exist 
in Sasserine. However, there is no reason not 
to use the 3.5 PHB Half-Elf build should a 
player want to use it. A player could play an 
elf and simply use the half-elf racial traits 
instead of the elf racial traits, perhaps 
explaining it by being a Minrothad wood elf 
or Alfheim elf. Or you could give a human the 
half-elf build, possibly dropping the spell 
immunity and save bonus and low-light vision 
and picking up the extra feat for humans in 
exchange. 

Lastly, for water elves in Sasserine, you can 
optionally drop the immunity to sleep that 
they enjoy in 3.5 D&D and instead give them 
the navigation direction sense 3 . Just make sure 
they get to use it during the campaign. 

Although not addressed any further in this 
article, there would be the possibility of a small 
number of Emerondians (western location 
only), lupins, or diaboli 4 living in the city. With 
the nation of Emerond to the south, Sasserine 
would likely engage in some trade with the 
kingdom overland, and so some 
Emerondians (greenish-cast humans with a 
druidic affinity for plants and insects) could 
live in the city. A clan of lupins could also have 
migrated to the city at any time during its 
history and settled there. And if you run the 
Savage Tide campaign after 1010AC, then you 

3 

A water elf special ability detailed in GAZ9 
The Minrothad Guilds, pi 7 

4 v3.5 D&D rules for lupins and diaboli are 
found in the Dragon Compendium, p6-l 0,1 8-21 



have the precedent of diaboli reaching 
Mystara and requesting permission to settle 
on Brun. So another group could arrive in 
Davania and make the same request of 
Sasserine. 

DUNQEON MAGAZINE #139: 

ADVENTURE # I : 
THERE IS NO HONOR 

The first adventure is set completely within 
Sasserine, so once the city is dropped into 
Mystara, the first adventure doesn't need any 
changes. It even features a Mystara classic, 
the rhagodessa. Should you pick an already 
established city, it won't be hard to adjust the 
encounter locations to fit that city's 
environment. As part of a treasure cache some 
perfume is listed as being from Mur which is 
in Greyhawk, this can be changed to 
Minrothad. 

ExpaNDiNQ ttje DawN CounciI 
BaNQuet 

One common complaint about Paizo 
adventures is that a lot of background 
material is not accessible to the players as 
they go through the adventure. NPCs get 
colorful histories that the DM reads and 
enjoys, but in play they get cut down in three 
rounds of combat against PCs with barely 
enough time to throw out a brief insult or 
rejoinder. 

At the end of this adventure, the PCs are 
invited to a banquet by the ruling oligarchy 
in Sasserine, the Dawn Council. This is a good 
time to get some of this villain background 
information into their hands. Having 
prevented a thieves' guild from taking over 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 




The Dawn Council Banquet 

port authority in Sasserine, an official decides 
the PCs could help bring to justice some other 
criminals that have so far eluded Sasserine's 
city guard. They get presented with a 
collection of dossiers with the suggestion that 
there are still bounties to be paid should any 
of the individuals within be found. 

Here are some brief write-ups of a few NPCs 
that appear in subsequent Savage Tide 
adventures which would be known in 
Sasserine, plus a couple of extra characters. 
These can be given directly to your players. 

The Castellan 

No real name known, and a ten year old vague 
description provided. This Thyatian was the 
commander of the occupation for the last 12 
years of Thyatian rule in Sasserine, and is 
wanted for crimes and atrocities committed 
primarily during the last 5 years of his rule. He 
escaped when Sasserine was liberated, and has 
managed to avoid the notice of Sasserine's 
spies since then. He is likely hiding in 
Ravenscarp or has returned to the Thyatian 
homeland far to the north. 

This character is an extra who is not part of 
the Savage Tide AP but was added purely for 



flavor to emphasize recent Sasserine history. 
It makes sense that a few Thyatians would be 
wanted criminals in Sasserine after the city 
drove the Thyatians out. 

Kalvessano Spumeheim 

This half-ore native from the city-state of 
Garganin has been seen in Sasserine. 
Apparently he killed three people in a brawl 
at a portside gambling hall in Garganin and 
was jailed. He escaped and is still on the run. 
He is not yet wanted for any crimes in 
Sasserine, but they have posted Garganin's 
bounty for him. 

This character actually appeared in the Savage 
Tidings for Dragon Magazine Issue #350. 
There he is an example of a replacement 
character for a player, but his story was good 
enough to add him in as an NPC in the 
campaign. He could become an ally, cohort 
or hireling, or could just be captured and 
turned over to the authorities for the bounty. 

Kigante 

No sketch or description for this man. His 
name has come up in a few contraband cases 
as well as bribes to certain guards at 
Sasserine's sea fort. It is believed he is a local 
contact for the Crimson Fleet pirates. It is 
likely he serves the Crimson Fleet as a local 
spy and smuggler. 

This poor bastard doesn't even live long 
enough to meet the PC's, they only get to find 
his remains in the Bullywug Gambit in 
Dungeon Magazine #140. At least now they 
can know a little more about him. 

Larcos Dengrin 

[When the dossiers are presented, a second 
official begins to question why this man is 
included, the first official argues that while 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savaqe TiOe AOaptatioN 




the case is old, there is some evidence Larcos 
may have returned.] Apparently Larcos, or 
someone who looks like him, has been 
recently spotted in Sasserine. Looking at his 
file you see that his crimes were indeed long 
ago, he is wanted for murder and illegal duels 
that occurred 70 years ago. He is a human, not 
an elf or dwarf, which means he is quite old 
and it isn't clear if the new sighting is actually 
him. It might also be a son or simply a passing 
resemblance. You note that Larcos was a 
respected paladin in his day before his fall 
from grace. He apparently got involved with 
some unsavory people as well as a retributive 
gang war which broke out in the streets of 
Sasserine. 

This character appears in the only adventure 
Sasserine that was NOT part of the Savage Tide 
AP. This adventure and Larcos are found in 
Dungeon Magazine #149. 

Slipknot Peet 

This guy's story reads like a pirate novel. He 
was a pirate who raided Sasserine and other 
coastal ports until he was captured years ago 
and brought to the city square in Sasserine to 
be hanged. As he stood on the block with the 
noose around his neck he defiantly spat at and 
cursed the assembled crowd. When he 
dropped through the floor an incredibly 
well-placed arrow shot severed the hanging 
rope. In the ensuing confusion Peet escaped 
with only one other crimson masked individual 
seen helping him. 

Slipknot Peet has been seen only once since 
then, serving with the Crimson Pirates and 
referred to by his current moniker. A Sasserine 
citizen who was captured and later returned 
for ransom reported that Peet still wears the 
tattered hangman's noose around his neck, 
and further adorns his body with coils of 



knotted rope wrapped around his arms and 
torso in a tangled display. 

This pirate will clash with the PCs in the 
adventure Tides of Dread in Dungeon 
Magazine #143 when they reach the colony 
Farshore. 

DUNQEON MAGAZINE # 1 40: 

ADVENTURE #2: 

THE BULLy WUCJ CJAMBIC 

This adventure is broken up into two main 
parts, a pirate cove which has been overrun 
with the remaining savage creatures that 
survived a localized outbreak of the magical 
chaos-mutating Savage Tide, and a siege of 
the PC patron's manor which has been 
captured by a tribe of bullywugs led by one 
of the pirates that survived the 
aforementioned tide. 

KuaKGN's Cove 

As the PCs arrive at this Crimson Fleet hideout 
, they find the place in chaos, due to an 
accidental magical release caused by a pair 
of NPCs which the PCs followed here. These 
NPCs had brought their own mercenary 
company to the cove to launch a surprise 
attack, but none from the mercenary 
company are found among the savage 
mutated survivors. 

You can sprinkle in a few meres turned savage 
amongst the savage pirates. Basically take a 
level 1 warrior or fighter with baseline 
equipment from the DMG, and then apply 
the savage template from the adventure. 
Good places to put them are on the beach 
area of Kl, which is otherwise deserted, and 
in the small maze deep in the caverns, which 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



is area K12. As one example, I had a couple of 
savage meres on the beach and replaced one 
of the three savage pirates in K12 with a savage 
mere. 

Another option should a PC fall into the water 
is to have them menaced by a savage aquatic 
animal. You could take a baseline medium 
sized shark and then apply the savage template. 



Of course be careful with any additions as the 
battles at the cove are quite draining for level 
3 characters, adding more savage opponents 
is more suitable if they start the cove at level 
4. 

Two mutated krenshar appear in one 
encounter, a monster first appearing with 3 rd 
edition. Krenshar are native to Davania but 



Jaujiulok 

One encounter for this adventure was cut 
from the publication due to lack of space. At 
location K7, the slave pens, the encounter 
was a savage mutated blackscale lizardman 
which had escaped its pen and is devouring 
another slave. Here we replace the blackscale 
lizardman with a Sis'thik from the Aryptian 
Desert. This fellow was captured by slavers 
and sold to the Crimson Fleet, who 
transported him here in anticipation of 
reselling him later. The stat block includes 
the baseline Sis'thik statistics with a level of 
barbarian added and then the Savage Tide 
template from this adventure applied. Note 
that AC, hitpoints and ability stats do not 
account for barbarian rage, which Jarjirlok 
will do immediately upon noticing the PCs. 



a See Mystara Monstrous Compendium 
Appendix, p72-73 and Jamie Baty's 3rd 
Edition update 



Jarjirlok 

CE Medium Humanoid 

(Reptillian) (chaotic) CR 4 
Savage Sis'thika barbarian 1 
Initiative +1, Listen +5, Spot +5 
AC 18, touch 11, flat-footed 18 
hp 38 (3d8+ldl2 +16) 
Fort +7(+9 raging), Ref +2, Will +3(+5 
raging) 
Spd 50 ft 

Attack: Bite +6 (d8+3 plus disease[DC 15]) 
Attack raging: Bite +8 (d8 + 5 plus 
disease[DC 17]) 

Full Attack: Bite +6 (d8+3 plus disease [DC 

15]) and 2 claws +4 (d6+2) 

Full Attack raging: Bite +8 (d8 + 5 plus 

disease[DC 17]) and 2 claws +6 (d6+4) 

BAB +3, Grp +4 

Str 17, Dex 12, Con 19, 

Int2, Wis 11, Cha 10 

Special Actions: 

Death Throes(see adventure), Disease(see 
adventure), Rage 1/day 
Combat Gear: None 

SQ: Resist acid 10, Resist fire 5, DR 5/magic, 
Darkvision 60ft, Ferocity(see adventure), 
Savage Immunties(see adventure) 
Feats: Multiattack, Power Attack 
Skills: Escape Artist +5, Hide +0, Jump 
+ 3 (+5 raging), Intimidate +7, Listen +5, 
Move Silently +0, Spot +5, Survival +3 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



unknown in Brun. Rather than krenshar, 
Davanians refer to them as "skulldogs". 

WoRMf all Festival 

After returning from Kraken's Cove, the PCs 
find Sasserine in the midst of celebrating the 
Wormfall Festival, which is a tie-in to the 
previous adventure path Age of Worms. 

For our adaptation we recommend changing 
the holiday to Independence Day, to celebrate 
Sasserine liberating itself from the only 
foreign power to ever conquer them, Thyatis. 
The historical timeline of Sasserine has the 
details. 

During the all day celebration PCs will be 
nearby when a wagon made up as a parade 
float of a huge humanoid figure shrouded in 
wriggling worms starts careening downhill 
out of control. This is the Worm's Revenge 
encounter, although it is just an accident, not 
a malevolent attack. You can change the 
parade float wagon to be a replica of a 
Heldannic Flying Warbird. The people of 
Sasserine honor these warships as several of 
them provided aid to the citizens of Sasserine 
when they rebelled and threw the Thyatians 
out of the city. 

One last note for anyone using the affiliation 
rules in the PHBII and the affiliations outlined 
in the Savage Tidings article in Dragon 
Magazine #348. The Dawn Council, which is 
the collected guilds and noble families that 
form the government of Sasserine, is one of 
the affiliations which has the power to throw 
a holiday. According to the PHBII rules, during 
any declared holiday by a government, all 
affiliation members of that government as well 
as citizens gain a + 1 morale bonus to attacks, 
skill checks and saves. For the entire second 
half of the adventure, you can let all PCs who 



are Sasserine citizens benefit from this as soon 
as they return to the city. It lets them see a 
benefit from an affiliation early on which 
otherwise takes some time to achieve as the 
benefits don't begin to kick in until the PCs 
reach the higher mid-levels. 

VaNDeuboueN MaNOR 

For the final part of the adventure, the PCs 
battle bullywugs who have taken over their 
patron's manor. For Mystara, change the 
bullywugs into Mystaran frogfolk. Keep the 
bullywug stats as a baseline, but rename them 
frogfolk and apply the following modifiers. 5 




Frogfolk modifiers 

Atk Options: Hop (+4 attack bonus when they 
jump to attack) 

SQ: Alien Smile (-8 penally when making 
Sense Motive checks against a frogfolk), 
Hop (can jump higher than its height) 
Skill Modifiers: +20 bonus to Jump checks, 



5 Based on froglin from the v3.5 D&D Dave 
Arneson's Blackmoor, p 195 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savaqe TiOe AOaptatioN 




+4 bonus to Escape Artist checks, +8 bonus 
to Swim checks 

It is unknown if these particular frogfolk 
which live near Sasserine have ties all the way 
back to the frog cult in Blackmoor, but that 
is a question that doesn't really need an 
answer. They may be able to trace back their 
lineage that far, or to someone much later 
who rediscovered the technique, possibly 
even an Immortal. 

DUNGEON MAGAZINE #141: 

ADVENTURE #3: 
THE SEA WWERN'S 
WAKE 

The Sea Wyvern's Wake is the third adventure 
in the Savage Tide series, and covers the sea 
journey where the PCs travel by sailing ship 
from Sasserine to the Isle of Dread where a 
secret colony was founded by the parents of 
the PCs wealthy patron. 

Cuew aNb PasseNqeus on ttje 
Sea Wy vcrn 

There are a few detailed NPCs which 
accompany the PCs on the journey, as well as 
a number of unnamed and undetailed NPCs 
who are either crew for the ship or colonists 
for the Sasserine colony on the Isle of Dread. 
First the detailed NPCs need a few 
adjustments to fit them into Mystara. 

Captain Amelia Vankalie 

Rather than prejudiced against gnomes, she 
hates halflings, as she is originally from Brun 
and her husband perished at the hands of a 
hin pirate crew. 



Conrad Horst 

He is posing as a cleric of Vanya. 
Skald 

He's originally from Landfall, and has no idea 
his old boss may well be dead as a result of 
the Heldannic Civil War. 

Master Forol 

Change his character race from gnome to 
halfling, to keep the conflict between him and 
Amelia. He is a former Master of the Five 
Shires who either became a renegade or was 
exiled from his homeland before making his 
way south. He has lost most of his magical 
powers as a result, but he may still have a 
small amount of blackflame that he keeps in 
a wooden crate. 

Lirith Veldirose 

She is from Karameikos, the daughter of a 
court lord, on her Shearing. 

And here are a few more NPCs you can borrow 
to fill out the roster of crew and passengers. 

Sailors and Artillerists Dorent and 
Morlond Migter 

These two dwarves (level 1 Experts) are both 
skilled carpenters and competent deckhands 
and artillerists. The brothers can be hired on 
to maintain man either ballistae or catapults 
in ship combat. Each of them wears leather 
armor and carries a knife and hand axe. 

Meridan, Wynona, and Wil Vicentius 

This family were Thyatian immigrants to 
Sasserine in the earlier years of Thyatian 
occupation. Meridan (level 2 Commoner) is 
a farmer on one of the plantations maintained 
outside the city itself, who seeks to build a 
new farm of his own at the colony of Farshore. 
Wynona (level 1 Commoner) is his wife, both 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



are age 50. Will (level 1 Commoner) is their 25 year 
old son and has come along to help start a new farm. 
They leave behind their older daughter and youngest 
son to maintain the portion of the plantation they 
already own. 

ReiviappiNQ ttje Voyage to ttje 
Qeoquapliy of DavaNia 

The adventure as written assumes a journey of 
approximately 3000 miles. If you place Sasserine on 
the eastern coastline near Yasuko Tribal Lands, the 
journey along the coast to Ravenscarp and then due 
north until turning west to the Thanegiorth 
Archipelago is about the same distance. However, the 
western location for Sasserine means the journey is 
less than 700 miles if you just head due north, and 
still much shorter if you first travel to Ravenscarp and 
then turn north. So should you choose the western 
location and still want to play the adventure with all 
the suggested encounters, you need some reasons 
to take an indirect route. The adventure provides 
one, and I manufactured another. 

The first reason is that Urol/Master Forol lends his 
expertise for the voyage and to the colony in exchange 
for the patron agreeing to take him to explore some 
ruins on the coast of Davania. This ruin is actually 
from CI The Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan, and the 
first ten rooms are lifted from the original module 
and used in this adventure. 

The second reason is citizens of Sasserine still don't 
trust the Thyatians, and knowing Thyatian spies are 
still in the city Lavinia (the PC patron) decides to 
travel greatly out of their way just to prevent the 
Thyatians from being tipped off about the colony. 
This is to avoid any danger of having the Thyatians 
try to claim the colony for themselves. This makes 
the journey from the western site about 3500 miles, 
which is probably a little excessive, but good enough. 
Once the colony can be made secure, the PCs can 
stop worrying about the Thyatians and take the direct 
route. 



OptiONal ENCOUNtCR: 

'CliyatiaN spystjip 

Should you wish to take the idea 
of Thyatian spies further, this 
encounter can be included. A 
Thyatian caravel, The Parche, 
begins following the Sea Wyvern 
soon after it passes Cittanova. It is 
recommended to only use this 
encounter if one of the PCs is the 
ship captain, as The Parche has no 
intention of seeking battle. The 
Thyatians are suspicious of the 
Blue Nixie and Sea Wyvern, and 
intends to shadow their journey. 

The Parche sea captain has 
equivalent stats to Captain Amelia 
Vankalie. The PCs must first spot 
The Parche, and once they do so, 
make an effort to evade and escape. 
Should they split off from the Blue 
Nixie, there is a 50/50 chance they 
will still be pursued. A captain PC 
who successfully loses The Parche 
gains XP for defeating a CR4 
encounter. The Parche may make 
another appearance at Ravenscarp 
and attempt to shadow the Sea 
Wyvern once again. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



For the sea journey, refer to the 
enclosed maps, the red route 
offers the indirect route 
assuming the western Sasserine 
location, and the blue route 
offers the longer but direct route 
assuming the eastern Sasserine 
location. The letter annotations 
correspond to the major 
encounter locations as detailed 
in the adventure, with further 
conversion notes and comments 
provided here as well. 

A: Fort Blackwell 

This gets replaced by 
Ravenscarp, for both the red and 
blue route across Davania. The 
Hieroneous temple which 
Conrad Horst visits becomes the 
city's temple to Vanya. There are 
some suggested optional 
encounters here, but they are 
not statted or detailed. 

One of the events at Fort 
Blackwell is when the fake priest 
Conrad gets injected with a 
slaad egg when he stays 
overnight in the Vanya temple. 
This is done by the Wizards of 
the Hopping Prophet, a sinister 
cult which has taken over the 
temple without anyone 
knowing. The Dungeon 
magazine adventure only details 
what happens a week later when 
Conrad gets sick, which is 
presumably at sea and long after 
the PCs have departed Fort 




Blackwell/Ravenscarp. Thus only 
the potential battle with the blue 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




slaad and ways to deal with the egg are 
detailed. However, it is a sidequest for the 
Witchwarden affiliation to acquire the box and 
contents that Conrad delivered to the cult. 

Should your PCs stay in Ravenscarp for a few 
days, or decide to turn around to deal with 
the cult, the following encounter for a battle 
with the cultists is designed for 6th level PCs. 

First, the Hopping Prophet is a reference to 
the lawful evil demigod Wastri in Greyhawk. 
That background gets completely ditched. 
Instead these wizards worship whatever Frog 
entity that is worshiped by the Temple of the 
Frog during the era of Blackmoor. I am not 
sure if this was ever defined for Mystara. As 
part of this they honor and work with slaad, 
seeking to spread the slaad presence into the 
world. The slaad who is currently helping them 
in Ravenscarp is named Nurn, a death slaad 
that works as a mercenary for Demogorgon 6 . 

Nurn has already departed Ravenscarp by the 
time the PCs return but they are able to catch 
the wizards and their frogfolk minions who 
have not yet fled. 

The frogfolk minions are surgically enhanced 
by the wizards themselves, using crude 
techniques that leave significant scars and 
make them fanatically loyal to the wizards. For 
the baseline creature, I used the stats for a 
Pathfinder boggard, including their special 
abilities such as Sticky Tongue and Terrifying 
Croak, with a few additional changes noted 
below. 



As detailed in the v3.0 D&D adventure, 
Bastion of Broken Souls. 



6 Enhanced Frogfolk 

Use Pathfinder Boggard 7 as baseline with 
the following modifiers 

Dexterity increases to 13. 

AC, Touch AC, Initiative and Reflex saves 

increase by 2. 

Atk Options: Hop (+4 attack bonus when 
they jump to attack) 

SQ: Alien Smile (-8 penally when making 
Sense Motive checks against a frogfolk), 
Hop (can jump higher than its height) 
Skill Modifiers: +20 bonus to Jump 
checks, +4 bonus to Escape Artist checks, 
+8 bonus to Swim checks 

The sticky tongue ability is a variation among 
the species of frogfolk that these particular 
individuals have, but the terrifying croak 
power is explained by surgery scars on their 
throats. 

Six frogfolk minions guard the temple, two 
of which are hiding in a pool in the 
entrance chamber of the Vanya temple. 
The rest are with the two wizards deeper 
inside the temple, a brother-sister pair of 
fraternal twins named Ciermaeth Jahn and 
Valia Jahn. They may or may not share a 
telepathic link. Note that these are 30 point 
buy characters so adjust accordingly 
should you use them. 

Ciermaeth and Valia Jahn CR 6 

CE Elite Human wizard 6 

Initiative: + 6, Listen +0, Spot +0 

AC 12(16 with shield), Touch AC 12, 

Fiat-Footed AC 10(14 with shield) 

hp 30 (6d4 +12) 

Fort +4/+4, Ref +4/+6, Will +7/+5 
Spd 30ft 

Attack: Mwk Dagger +4(d4/19-20) 

7 as described at D20PFRSD 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cioe AOaptatioN 




BAB +3, Grp +3 

Str 11/10, Dex 14/15, Con 15/14, Int 17/17, 
Wisdom 10/10, Charisma 9/10 
Combat Gear: Mwk dagger, Frog Mask of 
Minor Spell Storing 8 (contains False Life 
spell at CL5) 

Ciermaeth's Feats: Augment Summoning, 
Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Silent Spell, 
Spell Focus(Conjuration) 
Valia's Feats: Improved Counterspell, 
Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, 
Silent Spell, Spell Mastery 
Skills: Bluff +5, Concentration + 9, 
Decipher Script +5, Diplomacy + 2, 
Disguise +7, Intimidate + 2, 
Knowledge (arcana) +7, Knowledge (the 
planes) +10, Profession (surgeon) +10, 
Spellcraft +7, 

Level 0: Resistance, Acid Splash x 2, Disrupt 
Undead 

Spells in Memory 

Level 0: Resistance, Acid Splash x 2, Disrupt 
Undead 

Level 1: Shield, Grease, Obscuring Mist, 
Enlarge Person(Valia only), Magic 
Missile (Ciermaeth only) 
Level 2: Acid Arrow, Hideous Laughter (DC 
15), Mirror Image, Summon Monster II 
Level 3: Dispel Magic(Valia only), Heroism, 
Stinking Cloud(DC 16), Summon Monster 
III (Ciermaeth only) 

Tactics: As soon as the twins hear 
something out of the ordinary, they begin 
casting defensive magic starting with Shield 
and Mirror Image. Each keeps a frogfolk 
near them in order to cast some 
augmenting spells like Enlarge Person or 
Heroism. When enemies get close enough 
they will summon more defenders and 
engage with offensive spells. Should things 

See v3.5 D&D Dave Arneson's Temple of the 
Frog, pi 2 



go awry they will try to cast Obscuring 
Mist and escape. One twin can intuit if 
the other is dying and may be willing to 
surrender in exchange for saving the life 
of the other. Should one be captured and 
the other is not the captured twin will 
remain silent trusting their sibling will 
rescue them from prison. 

There is a spellbook or two to be found in 
the temple of course, containing the spells 
already detailed for the encounter. I will note 
that the Savage Tide AP is actually short on 
spellbooks to be found, so having this 
encounter provide one will be of benefit to 
wizard PCs. 

B: Hungry Flotsam 
Red Route - 

Takes place off the cape of Davania between 
Sasserine and Ravenscarp, fairly close to 
Cittanova. 

Blue Route - 

Takes place at the mouth of the river that 
leads up to the town of Manacapuru. 

C: Tamoachan 

Location is the same for both red and blue 
routes. 

This is the Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan. 

The magazine adventure updates the original 
1st edition AD&D module for about ten of 
the rooms, with some changes. It has the 
pyramid partially collapsed leaving some 
chambers exposed at ground level. There is 
a basilisk at location 1 which is the area near 
the open entrances into the pyramid. At 
location 2 is a gibbering mouther(which is 
also present in the IE version). 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 





The Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan 

The Manacapuru fight more or less as 

described in the Mystara almanac, preferring 

greater blowgun weapons, spears and javelins. 

Also included are Xipe's stats as well, which 

don't use the conventional Monster Manual 

stats but borrow some ideas from a Mike 

Mearls Dragon Magazine article revamping the 

ogre mage. Making ogre magi greatly differing 

in ability is in keeping with the original idea 

of the Rules Cyclopedia ogre spellcaster that 

was very rare but capable of up to a twelfth 

level of wizard casting ability. 

Manacapuru tribesman CR 2 

N Elite Human fighter 2 

Initiative: + 4, Listen +5, Spot +5 

AC 18, Touch AC 14, Fiat-Footed AC 14 

hp 18 (2dl0 +4) 

Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +3 

Spd 30ft 

Attack: ranged Greater Blowgun(10 ft 
range increment) +6(+7 in 30ft range) 
(d3+ poison), or 

thrown Javelin +6 (+7 in 30ft range) 
(d6+l) or melee Shortspear +3 (d6+l) 
BAB +2, Grp +3 

Str 13, Dex 18, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 
10 

Combat Gear: Hide Armor, Light Wooden 
Shield, Greater Blowgun w/poison darts, 



MaNacapuRu 

Some Paizo fans decided to continue the 
conversion the magazine started and 
update the rest of the original adventure 
to D&D 3.5. It was distributed as a word 
document. 

This Mystara conversion will make use of 
the fan adaptation and take its idea for the 
encounters used at locations 1 and 2, with 
further changes to bring it into line with 
the Mystara Almanacs which document an 
encounter in Davania along the Black River 
at an old ruin in Manacapuru territory 
where Manacapuru natives attack Thyatian 
explorers. 

The fan adaptation replaces the encounters 
at the first two locations with the ogre mage 
Xipe (again from the original IE version), 
leading a total of ten dominated lizardmen, 
six in location 1, and 4 with Xipe in 
location 2. The pyramid lies in a lizardfolk 
tribal area, but the lizardman chieftain fears 
the ogre mage and keeps his people away 
from it, as the ogre mage has magically 
dominated many of his best warriors. When 
the PCs enter the area, they will have to 
defeat Xipe, and the lizardfolk chieftain will 
have scouts keeping an eye on the battle, 
hoping to move in and finish off the 
survivors of the battle. The fan adaptation 
suggests having the Jade Ravens (the other 
NPC party employed by the PCs patron) 
do the fighting to keep the lizardfolk tribe 
at bay until the PCs finish their exploration 
of the pyramid. 

So with all this in mind, this article has 
adopted the fan adaptation approach, but 
replaces the lizardfolk with Manacapuru 
tribesman. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cioe AoaptatioN 




3 javelins 

Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fighting, Point 

Blank Shot, Exotic Weapon 

Proficiency(Greater Blowgun) 

Skills: Intimidate + 4, Jump + 6, Move 

Silently +5, Survival +4, Tumble + 7 (Note 

apply a -4 armor check penally when 

appropriate.) 

The blowgun poison requires the target 
to take a DC 12 Fortitude save should they 
take any damage from the dart. Initial 
damage is d6 Con points, and Secondary 
damage is d6 Con points once again. 



Tactics: The first six Manacapuru guard the 
entrances at location 1. As soon as they detect 
the party they yell a warning and fan out to 
take cover behind the nearby trees and snipe 
at the party until forced into melee. Xipe and 
the remaining four warriors will arrive in two 
rounds after the alarm has been sounded. 



Xipe 9 

CE Large Giant CR 5 
Ogre Mage 

Initiative + 6, Listen +9, Spot +9 

AC 20, touch 11, flat-footed AC 18 

hp 39 (6 HD) 

Fort +7, Ref +4, Will +4 

Space 10ft, Reach 10ft 

Speed 40ft, Fly 40ft(good maneuverability) 

Attack: Composite Longbow + 5(2d6+5/x3) 

or Greatsword +9 (3d6+ 7/19-20) 

BAB +4, Grp +13 

Str 21, Dex 14, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 
17 



Xipe's stat block conversion and tactics were 
originally written by Luke of the Paizo Message 
Boards, as part of the fan-made word document 
Return to the Shrine of Tamoachan. 



Special Actions: Sneak attack +2d6 
Combat Gear: Chain mail shirt 
SQ: Fast Healing 5 (regeneration), Spell 
Resistance 19 

Feats: Combat Reflexes, Improved 
Initiative, Weapon Focus (greatsword) 
Skills: Concentration +10, Disguise +10, 
Intimidate +10 

Spell-like abilities (Caster Level 6th) 
2/day - Invisibility 

1/day - Charm Person(DC 14), Lightning 
Bolt(DC 16), Gaseous Form, Swift 
Invisibility(See Spell Compendium) 
Deceptive Veil(Su): As per the spell 
disguise self, save that the ogre mage can 
appear to be up to one size smaller. 
Flight (Su): An ogre mage can cease or 
resume flight as a free action. While using 
gaseous form it can fly at its normal speed 
and has perfect maneuveraility. 

Tactics: Xipe will start off disguised as a 
Manacapuru tribesman. He will attempt to 
line up as many enemy targets as possible for 
his lightning bolt. He will then use Invisibility 
to repeatedly fly up and drop back down into 
a position in the combat to make his reach, 
combat reflexes and sneak attack ability 
effective. Once he can no longer turn 
invisible, he fights until brought below lOhp, 
at which point he takes gaseous form and 
attempts to escape to his second floor lair 
(not shown on the adventure map) . Should 
he be pursued to that chamber, he fights to 
the death. 

Use the collected treasure already specified 
in Dungeon Magazine #141 from locations 
1 and 2 of the Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan 
as the ogre mage's treasure. 

D: Brotherhood Blockade 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




These pirates can be anyone, whether Hattians 
formerly associated with the Storm Soldiers 
or Heldanners who have been cast out of the 
Heldannic Knights. They will fly either a 
Thyatian or Heldannic flag and claim to have 
a letter of marque from the Heldannic Knights 
to confront vessels sailing into Pearl Island 
waters. Whether that letter is authentic or not 
the players should get a bonus to their Sense 
Motive check to know something is wrong. 
Lavinia isn't expecting any blockade so there 
is no prior warning as mentioned in the 
encounter and two pirate vessels attack. 

Red Route - 

Takes place just outside Dwair coastal waters. 
Blue Route - 

Takes place just after they depart Tamoachan. 

As written the blockade encounter is very easy 
for 5th level PCs, and it was designed that way 
with the idea that not every encounter should 
be a life and death struggle. If the PCs capture 
the ship you can discourage them from selling 
it by having potential buyers give only low-ball 
offers considering its poor condition. If the 
PCs put efforts into repairing it then it can pay 
dividends for them later at Farshore, but if they 
don't bother it can sink during one of the two 
storm encounters. 

E: Ruins of Fort Greenrock 

This encounter can be skipped. Should you 
wish to give them another opportunity to earn 
a full or partial Dawn Council affiliation point 
that this encounter provided, you can have the 
Dawn Council offer the PCs a diplomatic or 
spy mission in Ravenscarp. 

F: River Menace 

This is the encounter with the aquatic hydra, 
location is the same for both red and blue 
routes. This river is named the Black River in 



the 1018 Mystaran almanac by Thyatians who 
explore it. As described in the almanac there 
is no waterfall and the river is navigable for 
some distance inland. Lavinia will 
recommend sailing both ships upriver a 
distance in order to collect fresh water, you 
can have the hydra attack at any time. The 
Jade Ravens can assist if this encounter is too 
tough as the adventure assumes the PCs will 
be 6th level by this time. Should the PCs find 
the shipwrecks underwater, the elven corpse 
mentioned will be a water elf from either 
Sasserine or Minrothad. 

G: Renkrue 

Red Route - This small hunter/gatherer 
village on an island becomes any one of a 
number of villages or settlements on the 
south coast of Dwair. The local Nuari are 
friendly and all the suggested events for 
Renkrue in the adventure will work well here. 
The Blue Nixie can disembark its people in 
a nearby village if you haven't developed 
many of the NPCs there so there isn't as much 
interaction with that crew. 

Blue Route - A diversion to the Pearl Islands 
isn't far out of the way, so the Sea Wyvern 
could still stop off on Dwair. But if not, 
Renkrue could be on a tiny island off the 
north-east coast of the Leopard Land region 
of the Hinterlands jungle. The missionaries 
were cleric followers of St. Cuthbert. 

In addition to the suggested Renkrue 
encounters, here are some other possible 
encounters that can happen on the Pearl 
Islands. 

Should a PC member of the affiliation 
Zelkarune's Horns decide to capture 
something on the island with the intention 
of shipping it back to Sasserine for the 
gladiator arena, a giant draco lizard is a good 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




candidate and may be the only large common 
predator of the Pearl Islands. A good 
diplomacy roll can convince one or more of 
the locals to assist. 

Should PCs decide to do some pearl diving, 
either on the Pearl Islands or while in the 
Thanegioth Archipelago, you can use these ad 
hoc rules to determine their success. The 
identify spell in 1st through 3rd edition always 
had a lOOgp pearl as one of the spell 
components. 3/3. 5E in particular turned up 
the whole magic item trade mini-game in order 
to keep PCs properly equipped for their level, 
a lot of players enjoy it including mine (much 
to my occasional irritation). So the identify 
spell gets heavily used and some players may 
wish to try finding their own supply. 

The PCs will presumably trade any pearls not 
of sufficient quality to the locals in exchange 
for lOOgp pearls. Using the trading rules found 
in the Darokin/Minrothad Gazetteers, you can 
allow a single roll on that table for trading the 
locals some of their pearls. For pearls, on the 
Pearl Islands the base modifier is -3 (meaning 
tends to be cheaper than list price). This would 
be further modified by how successful pearl 
diving expedition went. 

Each PC that participates in pearl diving would 
make one Swim check followed by one Search 
or Survival check to see how much they found, 
if anything. The Swim check provides bonuses 
to the Search/Survival check. A DC 10 result 
on the Swim check provides a +2 bonus to 
the subsequent Search/Survival check, with an 
additional + 2 bonus for each higher DC 
reached by increments of 5. So a + 4 bonus to 
the check at DC 15, a + 6 bonus at DC 20, and 
so on. 

The Search/Survival check(player's choice) has 
the following modifiers in addition to the 



bonus provided by the Swim check. . . 

+ 2 racial bonus for water elves (this stacks 

with an elfs +2 bonus to Search checks) 

+ 4 circumstance bonus for an Augury spell 

cast(does not stack with Divination) 

+ 6 circumstance bonus for use of Water 

Breathing spells 

+ 10 circumstance bonus for a Divination 
spell cast (does not stack with Augury) 

A DC 20 result or higher means the PC finds 
enough pearls to influence the trade modifier 
by an additional -1. They find some low value 
pearls which they trade in. A DC 40 result 
means in addition to that they find a single 
lOOgp pearl themselves. An additional lOOgp 
pearl is found for every additional +20 on 
the DC result of the Search/Survival check. 

A village like Renkrue will, of course, only 
have available a fixed number of pearls for 
trade. Divide the maximum gp limit as 
specified in the 3.5E DMG, around 200gp, by 
the final discounted price for a lOOgp pearl 
to get the number of lOOgp pearls the PCs 
can trade in. 

H: The Pearl Current 

This is the point where both routes join up 
for the final part of the journey, this and the 
rest of the geographical entries are the same 
location for red and blue. 

This encounter can be skipped, but there 
have been suggestions by Mystara fans that 
the reason the Thanegioth Archipelago is 
infrequently visited is due to difficult currents 
to navigate as one proceeds west away from 
Ochalea. 

I: Ruja 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




This is the eastern-most island of the 
Thanegioth Archipelago. 

J: The First Storm 

This sends the PC's ship off north into the Sea 
of Dread, while the Blue Nixie manages to hold 
to its east-south-east course. Any other ships 
part of the voyage also scatter, but will make 
their way safely to the colony unless they were 
already in poor shape. Here is a good spot for 
water elves to use their navigational sense. 

K: Journey's End 

Blown far off course, the heroes encounter 
this Sargasso as they sail back towards the Isle 
of Dread. The first caravel the PCs find, the 
Rage, is a small Thyatian warship which was 
part of the Thyatian armada during the Twaelar 
war. The last entries before the Rage was 
ensnared in the Sargasso indicate it was 
separated from the rest of the armada in 1016 
AC. 

Vine Horror stat block errata: Initiative + 0, AC 
18(+8 natural), touch 10, flat-footed 18, DR 
5/bludgeoning 

L: The Second Storm 

This blows up soon after they get out of 
Journey's End. They get blown toward the 
coral reef to the northeast of the Isle of Dread. 
The PCs may spot Emraag the Dragon Turtle 
out enjoying the storm, an encounter with him 
here results in the Sea Wyvern being pushed 
into the coral reef. Emraag devours a sailor or 
two that falls into the water and departs just 
after bellowing above the storm in Aquan, "No 
tribute, no passage!" 10 



M: Shipwrecked on the Isle of Dread 

They get their ship off the reef and limp 
toward shore. . .and the next adventure. 

W: Wumingdou 

This Ochalean town is an optional location 
to visit, the last ship harbor available to repair 
and restock and possibly sell any captured 
pirate ships. This was also Lavinia 
Vanderboren's home after she was sent away 
from Sasserine to study, so a longer stop for 
the sake of a side adventure can easily be 
added. 

Minor ENCouNteus 

Most of the minor encounters don't fit well 
for the suggested routes along the Davania 
coast. I wouldn't expect independent coastal 
forts, only small forts found close to the 
different city-states. Ruins can be found along 
the Davania coast further east of Ravenscarp. 

For the three minor encounters The Great 
Web, The Sacred Forest, and The Vast 
Burning, the best places to use those would 
be the Jungle of the Tiger Men along the 
south coast of Ochalea(Red Route), or 
Davania coastline close to the Yasuko Tribal 
Lands(Blue Route). Both have been largely 
unexplored by past writers, so who knows 
what lurks in those areas. 



Credit for the idea of this early appearance 
of Emraag and quote goes to Turin the Mad of 
the Paizo Message Boards. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




DUNQEON MAGAZINE #114 

BACKDROP: 

THE ISLE OF DREAD 

More than two years before the Savage Tide 
AP was started, Paizo published an adventure 
set on the Isle of Dread, along with a campaign 
backdrop article to support the adventure. The 
backdrop article served as a gazetteer for the 
Isle of Dread, although it was designed for 
Greyhawk rather than Mystara. The backdrop 
article itself does not contain much 
information that won't be found in the Savage 
Tide series, but there are a few additional 
tidbits of information including more detail 
on the village of Tanaroa. Here is a good 
location to address some general details on 
the Isle of Dread which are not directly 
addressed in the Savage Tide Adventure Path. 

Map Fixes 

There was a mistake made in XI, between the 
size of the Isle of Dread on the Known World 
map, versus the size of the Isle of Dread on 
the main island map which has the numbered 
encounter locations. The main island map 
used a 6 mile per hex scale which makes the 
Isle of Dread approximately 240 miles long 
and 110 miles wide. While the larger scale 
Known World map assumed the Isle of Dread 
would use a 4 mile per hex scale 11 , meaning 
the Isle of Dread would be approximately 160 
miles long and 75 miles wide. 

The maps used in the Savage Tide AP assume 
the 6 mile per hex scale. You can adjust that 
back to the standard Known World assumption 
by treating all island distances as 1/3 shorter 
than the AP maps and the island still is quite 



big even at the smaller scale. Or keep it at the 
6 mile per hex scale and remember the Isle 
of Dread is significantly larger when you use 
larger maps such as maps of the full 
Thanegioth Archipelago. In the latter case the 
Isle of Dread is now noticeably larger and 
longer in the north and south direction and 
you can also stretch out the whole island 
chain a bit further east and west so that the 
islands keep the same distance from each 
other 

TiMeliNe 

This timeline is designed to use a minimum 
of early history for the Thanegioth 
Archipelago and the Isle of Dread. This is to 
maximize utility and avoid conflicting with 
other fan materials. It does use material from 
the Mystaran Almanacs to document details 
leading up to the suggested start date of the 
Savage Tide campaign. The new events in the 
timeline follow the suggested history of the 
Isle of Dread in the Savage Tide campaign, 
namely that a human empire was established 
over 1300 years ago, defeated a city of aboleth 
soon after, and then was destroyed 1000 years 
ago by the unleashing of the first Savage Tide. 

These time periods are very flexible, the 1000 
years could easily be 900, 800 or 500 as 
needed, so feel free to adjust them. 



1 1 



As shown on this map of the Isle of Dread 



Prehistory: Eastern Thanegioth is a single 

huge island at this time 

-7800-7200 BC Yhog Carnifex colonize 

the lands which will become Thanegioth. 

Troglodyte servitors work planations 

there. 

-7200-7100 BC Carnifex abandon the 
troglodytes and plantations, some 
troglodytes depart for other lands, some 
remain. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




2800 BC The Otieno begin establishing 
themselves in the northern Sea of Dread.. 
2750-2500 BC Eokai migrate from the 
Davanian coast northward, some settle on 
Eastern Thanegioth. 

2500-2200 BC Tangoro people migrate 
from Minaea to the Serpent Peninsula. 
2450 BC Kopru migrate to Eastern 
Thanegioth and begin to re-establish their 
empire, which they call Adhuza. They 
begin enslaving some of the current 
inhabitants, including the Mawa and 
aranea. 

2450-1950 BC The Mawa people slowly 
migrate away from Eastern Thanegioth. 
2300 BC Adhuza, the kopru empire, is on 
the ascendant and near the peak of its 
power. 

1720-1700 BC Kopru Empire is in steep 
decline, Thanegioth is now an archipelago. 
1200 BC Tanogoro migrate east from the 
Serpent Peninsula, some arrive at the 
Eastern Thanegioth Archipelago. 
1000 BC Nithians discover Ierendi islands 
and the Makai people, some Nithians may 
also discover Thanegioth Archipelago. 
614-603 BC The great Thyatian, Kerendan 
and Hattian tribes flee Milenian aggression 
by embarking on ships heading north for 
Brun. Some end up marooned in the 
Thanegioth Archipelago. 
597 BC The kopru invite the aboleth to 
build a city under the Isle of Dread, in 
exchange for aboleth assistance in helping 
the kopru rebuild Adhuza 
500 BC The Nithian Empire vanishes. 
378 BC A thriving human civilization 
comes into prominence in the Eastern 
Thanegioth Archipelago, developing 
architecture, magic and theology. It 
encompases many of the tribes on the 



archipelago including those on the Isle 
of Dread, with its people able to partially 
subdue the thunder lizards on the island. 
Their capital is eventually built on the 
central plateau of the Isle of Dread. 
350 BC The aboleth seize control of 
kopru territory, enslaving and partially 
dominating the kopru 
304 BC The kopru begin launching 
brazen open attacks on the human 
civilization above them, in the hopes of 
provoking a retaliation that will 
overthrow the aboleth's power. 
303 BC War erupts between the aboleth 
and the human civilization, the aboleth 
are defeated with the deployment of 
Tlaloc's Tear. 

300 BC During the exploration of the 
Sea of Dread, the sea-gnomes of 
Deepreach discover the Twaelar 
civilization in the southern area near 
Thanegioth. 

100 BC Alphatian conquest of the Pearl 
Islands triggers Nuari migrations into 
other areas of the Sea of Dread. 
33 BC Under instruction from 
Demogorgon, the kopru begin cultivating 
the first shadow pearl. 
8 AC The shadow pearl is complete and 
placed where the humans will find it. 
12 AC The first savage tide is unleashed 
by the shadow pearl, the devastation 
wipes out the capital, and the human 
civilization collapses back to Stone Age 
technology. Most of the survivors are on 
the peninsula of the Isle of Dread behind 
the Great Wall. Other subjects on other 
islands become independent and go their 
own way. Demogorgon' s influence over 
the Isle of Dread is established, and only 
continues to increase. 
700-800 AC A reliable sea-route from 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




Brun to Davania is eventually charted as 
part of a period of exploration by Brun 
nations, some mariners call it the Strait of 
Dread. 

832 AC Bugbears from Hule shipwreck on 

the island, they soon ally with the aranea. 

850 AC One expedition from Brun drifts 

off west from the Strait of Dread, but makes 

its way back, reporting a chain of islands 

rich in ivory, gold and gems. 

900 AC Twaelar Merrow Empire 

established as they finish subjugating 

aquatic tribes in the seas surrounding the 

Thanegioth Archipelago. 

965 AC Rory Barbarosa makes peaceful 

contact with the natives on the Isle of 

Dread, and maps the coastline. 

970 AC Rory Barbarosa murdered before 

he can return to the archipelago, his maps 

and ship log are disregarded. 

~1000 AC Barbarosa's map and ship log 

are rediscovered and interest in exploring 

the eastern Thanegioth Archipelago is 

kindled. 

1012 AC The kopru receive an emissary 
from Demogorgon, and begin work to 
produce quantities of shadow pearls. 
1016 AC The city-state of Kastelios 
establishes a trade treaty with Thyatis and 
begins opening its trade routes with Thyatis. 
1016 AC A group of three small Thyatian 
war galleys establish a waystation on the 
easternmost island in the Thanegioth 
Archipelago. 

1016 AC After a major naval battle with the 
Twealar, the Thyatis armada lands at village 
of Mora on the Isle of Dread for recovery 
and resupply. Thyatis establish a military 
base near Mora. 

1017 AC Twaelar attack Ravenscarp and 
Mora, the Mora base is badly damaged. The 
Twaelar soon realize the costs of the war 



are too great so first an armistice is 
established and then a peace treaty is 
signed. The Twaelar recognize the 
Thyatian claim to the Thanegioth 
Archipelago. A Twaelar consulate is 
established at Ravenscarp and the Mora 
base. 

1017 AC Colonists from the city of 
Kastelios found a colony on the 
westernmost island of the Thanegioth 
Archipelago, Mykonos. 
1017 AC Thyatis begins colonizing islands 
on the Thanegioth Archipelago. 

1017 AC A disturbing number of Thyatian 
officers go missing at the Mora base. 

1018 AC A massive storm hits the Isle of 
Dread peninsula, and a great demon 
appears near Mora, unleashing its full fury 
on the Thyatian base. The demon does 
not manifest long, but causes great 
damage and loss of life. The Thyatian 
governor and highest ranking military 
officer agree to abandon the Mora base 
and relocate all Thyatian personnel to 
other islands further east on the chain. 
The Twaelar also relocate their consulate 
to a safer island under Thyatian control. 

1018 AC The Vanderborens depart 
Sasserine on two ships to found a colony 
on the Isle of Dread. 

1019 AC An Ochalean trade combine sets 
up a colony on a previously uncharted 
island between the Thanegioth 
Archipelago and Ochalea proper. 

1019 AC The Vanderborens conclude 
peaceful negotiations with the natives 
living on the peninsula and islands on the 
southeast corner of the Isle of Dread, and 
found the colony of Farshore on the small 
unoccupied island of Temute. They leave 
the colony to return to Sasserine to 
resupply, but lose one of their ships on 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




the return journey. Further misfortunes 
increase the delay of their return. 
1020 AC Under the subtle influence of 
Thanatos, the Heldannic Knights establish 
a small colony on the jungle island due west 
of the Usi village. 

1021-1022 AC Beginning of the Savage 
Tide campaign... Vanderborens are 
murdered and their daughter Lavinia 
discovers the hidden colony and makes 
plans to return to reinforce the colony. 



WI70 aue ttie Natives of tlie Isle 
of Dueab? 

This has never been officially defined, and so 
this conversion will only make suggestions. 
The Tanogoro and Makai are likely early 
inhabitants but the Oltec may have been even 
earlier human inhabitants. Ochalea is fairly 
close to the island chain. Traladarans and 
Thyatians have both crossed the Sea of Dread 
on their way from one continent to another, 
so some are invariably going to end up in the 
Thanegioth Archipelago. This is true for 
anyone crossing, and is likely the reason there 
are a number of small diverse groups on the 
island, they get shipwrecked there. 

You can also use the historical timeline in the 
previous issue of Threshold 12 , which provides 
some details on the people who have inhabited 
the Eastern Thanegioth Archipelago. In such 
a case, in addition to the mix of Makai, 
Tanagoro and Oltec, there would also be the 
Eokai, Mawa and Oteino people. 

So the natives of the Thanegioth Archipelago 
are likely a mix of a few different human 



groups, with possibly different ethnic mixes 
for each island or cluster of islands in the 
chain. On one island the Tanagoro and Oltec 
may have warred with each other to 
extinction, leaving the Makai to settle the 
island and preserve their identity so it mirrors 
that of the Makai on Ierendi. On another 
island the dangers may have forced Makai, 
Oltec, Tanagoro and others to ally and 
intermarry so as to survive. A few Nithians 
may have intermarried on the island chain 
and their diluted bloodline escaped Immortal 
notice, and some of their descendants may 
have been the ones to start the meteoric rise 
of the civilization that defeated the aboleth. 

Because Paizo used the term Olman to 
describe the natives on Greyhawk, for 
simplicity this conversion uses the term Oltec. 
While this may not be true for all of the 
Thanegioth Archipelago, on the Isle of Dread 
on Mystara, the human civilization which rose 
to a great height before being brought down 
by the kopru has many of its cultural and 
technological aspects in common with the 
Oltecs. The natives that still live on the Isle 
of Dread have preserved those cultural 
aspects as well. 



Simone Neri, The History of Ierendi and 
Minrothad, Threshold The Mystara Magazine #3 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savaqe "Cifce AOaptatioN 




DUNQEON MAGAZINE #114 

OPTIONAL ADVENTURE: 
TORRENTS OF DREAD 

More than two years before the Savage Tide 
AP was started, Paizo published an adventure 
set on the Isle of Dread, along with a campaign 
backdrop article to support the adventure. 
This adventure takes place on the peninsula, 
near the town of Mora. It features a corrupted 
Oltec Zombie Master in league with kopru who 
are unleashing a devastating magical storm on 
the island as they complete a ritual to summon 
a powerful servant of Demogorgon. 

The adventure as it stands needs nothing to 
convert it to Mystara in terms of encounters. 
But should you decide to incorporate this 
adventure into the Savage Tide AP, here are 
some suggestions. 

MONStCR ENCOUNtCRS 

Bullywugs appear in this adventure as 
dominated servants of the kopru. Once again 
you can use the frogfolk modifiers provided 
in Adventure #2. Perhaps the Temple of the 
Frog once had a presence on the Isle of Dread, 
or perhaps some of its frogfolk found a home 
on the island long ago. 

TliyatiaNS AbaNDoN Base NeaR 
MoRa 

In the Mystara almanacs, Thyatis establishes a 
base on Mora in 1017 AC as part of their war 
with the Twaelar Empire. After they win, they 
start establishing plans to colonize the 
Thanegioth Archipelago. By the time of the 
Savage Tide AP, the Thyatians have relocated 
to another island in the Archipelago. The 
reason why is due to the kopru, but this 



adventure can be used to flesh out the 
specifics. 

The kopru grow concerned about the 
Thyatians, and dispatch some of their number 
to the peninsula. The kopru begin by 
dominating some Thyatian officers, but 
eventually use the plot of this adventure to 
succeed in badly damaging the Thyatian base. 
The demon servant summoned only 
manifests for a short time, but it is enough 
to convince the Thyatians that they must 
relocate before they try again. 

Now with the colony of Farshore seeing 
increased activity, a few kopru decide to try 
the ritual once again. 

Usinq ttjis ADveNtuRe witli ttje 
Savage Tibe PCs 

Should you wish to integrate this adventure 
into the Savage Tide AP, the ideal time is 
during the Tides of Dread adventure, when 
the PCs must explore the island and build up 
the colony of Farshore to protect it against 
the upcoming attack of the Crimson Fleet. 
Completing Torrents of Dread can be a way 
to secure Oltec help and further Oltec allies 
in the coming battle. However, this adventure 
is designed for 6 th level PCs, while the PCs 
are expected to be 9 th or 10 th level while 
completing Tides of Dread. 

Should the PCs have somehow managed to 
avoid being shipwrecked when they first came 
to the island, they will have avoided most of 
the fourth adventure. In such a case this 
adventure can help fill in and provide the 
necessary experience to put Tides of Dread 
back on track. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




Usinq ttjis ADveNtuue witl? ttje 
Jabe RaveNS 

As an alternative to having the PCs complete 
this adventure, the players could instead 
dispatch the Jade Ravens, and possibly Lavinia, 
to complete this adventure. Should the players 
like the idea they can each take over an NPC 
to complete this adventure while their PCs are 
completing other tasks on the Isle of Dread. 
In that case you can use the Jade Ravens and 
Lavinia' s stats from the Farshore backdrop 
article where they are 7 th level characters. 

Usinq tliis ADveNtuue to 
DocuivieNt riiyatiaN Defeat 

As a darker way to introduce the Isle of Dread, 
instead of playing this adventure during the 
time period of the Savage Tide campaign, you 
instead run this adventure before the 
campaign, or as a flashback during the 
campaign. You can give the players Thyatian 
characters to play as they try to put a stop to 
the kopru plan. This works best if the players 
themselves already have some knowledge of 
the Isle of Dread and know about kopru, 
otherwise it may not be worth spoiling them 
on who the kopru are. In this scenario the PCs 
are likely to fail and perhaps even die, feel free 
to stack the opposition against them. Once the 
adventure is over the players will have some 
dread and grudges against the Lords of Dread 
to carry over to the Savage Tide campaign. 

SubstitutiNQ 'CliyatiaNS fou 

ENCOUNteRS 

Feel free to substitute some or all of the 
frogfolk warriors with Thyatian soldiers that 
the kopru were able to isolate and enslave. 
Some of those the kopru captured were elite 



frogmen from the Marine Amphibious 
Division 13 . 

Thyatian Frogman CR 3 

LN Human fighter 3 

Init +6, Listen -1, Spot -1 

AC 20, touch 12, flat-footed 18 

hp 25 (3dl0+3) 

Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +0 

Spd 30ft 

Attack: mwk trident +7 (ld8+2) or mwk 
shortsword +6 (ld6+2) or ranged harpoon 
gun +7 (ld8) 
BAB +3, Grp +5 

Str 15, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 
12 

Combat Gear: Potion of cure light wounds, 
flask of alchemist fire, frogsuit 
SQ: Resist fire 10, Resist cold 10, Poison 
Gas immunity 

Feats: Improved Initiative, Point Blank Shot, 

Rapid Reload, Weapon Focus (harpoon 

gun), Weapon Focus (trident) 

Skills: Climb +4, Intimidate +5, Jump +7, 

Swim +7, Tumble +5 

Possessions: Combat Gear, Masterwork 

Trident, Masterwork Shortsword, Harpoon 

Gun, Frogsuit 

The Thyatian frogmen wear a frogsuit which 
provides full plate protection along with fire 
and cold resistance as well as poisonous 
gases. It does not restrict movement and 
allows full movement underwater with no 
armor check penally. The harpoon gun 
functions as a light crossbow and may be used 
without penally underwater or in heavy rain. 

A Thyatian marine has the stats above with 
the following modifications. 



1 3 

Thyatian Frogmen are a fan creation by 
James Ruhland 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




Thyatian Marine CR 3 

Human fighter 3 

Initiative + 6, Listen -1, Spot -1 

AC 18, touch 12, flat-footed 16 

hp 25 (3dlO+3) 

Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +0 

Spd 20ft 

Attack: mwk shortsword +7 (ld6+2) or 
heavy crossbow +7 (ldlO) 
BAB +3, Grp + 5 

Str 15, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 
12 

Combat Gear: Potion of cure light wounds, 
flask of alchemist fire 

Feats: Improved Initiative, Point Blank Shot, 
Rapid Reload, Weapon Focus(heavy 
crossbow), Weapon Focus (shortsword) 
Skills: Climb +7, Intimidate +4, Jump +7, 
Swim +4, Tumble +5 (Note apply a -6 armor 
check penalty when appropriate.) 
Possessions: Combat Gear, Masterwork 
Shortsword, Heavy Crossbow, Banded mail 



DUNQEON MAGAZINE #142 

ADVENTURE #4: 
HERE THERE BE 
MONSTERS 

The fourth adventure in the Savage Tide AP is 
the first adventure set on the Isle of Dread. 
Going back to review the original adventure, 
you can see just how much effort Paizo writers 
and editors made to keep their 3.5 adaptation 
true to the original module. The original XI 
featured a sandbox campaign on an island with 
a Lost World theme. You have both dinosaurs 
and prehistoric mammals and birds featured 
in either fixed encounters or wandering 
monster tables (or both). You also get a 



hodgepodge of new races that live in small 
enclaves on this island who are introduced 
for the first time to D&D including the aranea, 
kopru, phanatons, and rakasta. Odd to think 
of all these races as making their first 
appearance at the very same time as D&D 
Known World countries like Thyatis, Glantri, 
Ylaruam, Rockhome. 

The original XI could be played in any 
number of ways, I suspect the default for 
many of us was first a visit to the peaceful 
natives on the southeastern peninsula 
followed by a typical mapping hex-crawl to 
explore the island in order to find all the 
major encounters and then a treasure hunt 
in the lost city on the central plateau of the 
island. One page has some alternative 
suggestions, but the cover artwork of XI 
suggested another possible starting 
point.. both the blue and orange covers depict 
a party arriving on the island from the sea 
only to encounter a Tyrannosaurus Rex. (Or 
is that an Allosaur on the blue cover?) 

So this adventure in the Savage Tide AP takes 
that latter theme and runs with it. 
Shipwrecked off the coast and without 
support, the PCs and surviving NPCs have to 
hike it down the east coast of the island. First 
encounter on the Isle of Dread is a hungry 
TRex. 

In preparation for this article, we went 
through all the fixed monster encounters and 
the wandering monster tables in the original 
XI in order to compare the original to the 
monsters used in this AP. Full details of that 
analysis appear in the conversion notes for 
the next adventure where Paizo put in their 
own random encounter tables, but 
conversion notes for the planned encounters 
in this adventure are based on that analysis. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




MaKiNQ ttje JouRNey iNSteaD of 
WaitiNQ f or Rescue 

You need to be prepared in case your PCs 
decide to sit tight on the beach and wait for 
rescue. It is possible through sending spells 
or other magic that the party is in touch with 
Lavinia, whose ship the Blue Nixie should be 
arriving or have already arrived at Farshore. 

There apparently was something written up 
about this by the author of the adventure, but 
it got cut for lack of space. You can have 
Lavinia giving them a report of a badly 
damaged Blue Nixie limping into Farshore at 
the time they contact her, and have her ask 
them to try and make their way south to get 
closer while repairs are made. If Lavinia 
already knows about Emraag the Dragon 
Turtle, that is even more of a reason to start 
moving. If you use the suggestion of Emraag's 
appearance at the end of the last adventure, 
the PCs will have a reason to get out of the 
area to avoid the Blue Nixie suffering a similar 
fate as the Sea Wyvern. 

MONStCR ENCOUNtCRS 

The beach and jungle the PCs must enter on 
the way to the mountains are the hunting 
grounds of a monster from the 3.0 Fiend Folio 
called Terror Birds. Sure enough, they made 
an appearance in the original XI as 
Phorohacos or "Sword Beak" in the wandering 
monster tables and in the monster appendix 
at the back. The PCs will likely know the name 
terror bird from the Isle of Dread ecology 
notes that they helped Lavinia recover from 
the Vanderboren vault in the first adventure 
of this AP, but for fun you have the NPC Urol 
Forol insist that the proper term is Sword 
Beak. Or maybe Axe Beak, at some point it got 
changed in one of the Creature Catalogs. 




Terror Bird 

Most of the remaining encounters in this 
adventure include appropriate monsters 
which showed up in XI somewhere, whether 
it be from fixed locations (the gargoyles from 
the aerie on the vulture-head east peninsula), 
or wandering monster tables (you can roll up 
to 3 mummies appearing on Wandering 
Monster Table 1 from the orange XI). Of 
those few that aren't in the original material 
we have a mix of classic D&D monsters (like 
the black pudding) and others which appear 
in Mystara fan material (like the spirit naga). 

So there really isn't a need to change much 
in this adventure, and as it stands it captures 
both the XI feel and a feel of being part of 
Mystara. This is also true for the next three 
adventures all set on the Isle of Dread. Still, 
there is room for some changes to add in 
more Mystara details in a few of the 
encounters. 

HY)Q Long ARaNea 

It was an interesting choice to make the only 
set encounter with aranea in the Savage Tide 
AP be a role-play opportunity instead of a 
standard fight. I am happy with the encounter 
itself, although I am unhappy with how 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




aranea got converted to 3rd Edition D&D, 
something that wasn't Paizo's fault. 

It was an innocent mistake, someone simply 
found the 2E AD&D stats for aranea in the 
Savage Coast Monster Appendix and updated 
the monster for 3E in the Monster Manual. 
Unfortunately what they didn't know is that 
the original aranea was never a 
shapechanger...that was specific to aranea 
from Herath who are native to the Savage Coast. 

That idea came from Bruce Heard during his 
Princess Ark series, but aranea elsewhere in 
Mystara lacked such magic. That would include 
aranea living in subterranean regions 
bordering Shadowelf lands, the Isle of Dawn, 
and, of course the Isle of Dread. The non- 
shapeshifting aranea 2E version is in the 
Monstrous Compendium Mystara Appendix, 
but apparently that was overlooked. So this 
encounter has the PCs meet an aranea in 
human form, surrounded by spiders, who is 
interested in talking. They most likely won't 
realize she herself is a spider until she leaves. 

For those who prefer any encounter with 
aranea on the Isle of Dread to be done in 
spider form only, even though that increases 
the likelihood your PCs will start fighting first 
and asking questions later, here is a version 
of Lithira who is a spider-only aranea. Rather 
than using the 3.5 Monster Manual's baseline, 
this uses the Pathfinder version of an aranea 14 , 
which essentially advances an aranea two extra 
hit dice and caster levels as a magical beast 
first. 

I then added two more levels of sorcerer to 
her in order to give her access to 3rd level 
magic including the tongues spell. She will 
cast that first in order to properly 
communicate with PCs, to make it a little easier 



to have this be a non-combat encounter as 
intended. 

Since she is described as old, the middle and 
old age stat modifiers have been applied. 
Thus her Str, Dex and Con are at -3 and Int, 
Wis, and Cha are at +2. This gives her an extra 
+ 5 skill points for her 5HD and +8 skill 
points for the two sorcerer levels. 

Lithira CR 7 

N Aranea sorcerer 4 

Initiative +6, Listen + 7, Spot +7 

AC 19, touch 12, flat-footed 17 (+4 armor, 

+ 2 Dex, +3 natural) 

hp 38, (5dl0) + (2d4) 

Fort +4, Ref + 6, Will +8 

Spd 40 ft, climb 20ft 

Attack: Bite +8(d6-l plus poison) or web 
(+8 ranged, DC 14, hp 5) 
BAB +7, Grp + 6 

Str 8, Dex 14, Con 11, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 
18 

BAB +7, Grp + 6 

Feats: Eschew Materials, Improved 
Initiative, Iron Will, Weapon Finesse (bite), 
Improved Counterspell 
Skills: Climb +13, Concentration +10, 
Escape Artist +7, Jump +12, 
Knowledge (arcana) +8, Listen +7, Spot 
+ 7 

Sorcerer Spells (CL 7th) 
3rd (5/day) - Hold Person(DC 17), Tongues 
2nd (7/day) - Blur, Invisibility, Mirror Image 
1st (7/day) - Charm Person (DC 15), Color 
Spray (DC 15), Mage Armor (1 already 
cast), Silent Image (DC 15), Sleep (DC 15) 
0th (6/day) - Daze (DC 14), Detect Magic, 
Flare(DC 14), Ghost Sound (DC 14), Light, 
Mage Hand, Resistance 



14 



Aranea . described at www.d20pfsrd.com 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savaqe "CiOe AOaptatioN 




The following box text can be used as they 
approach the clearing in the center of the ruins 
where the aranea and spiders are to be found. 
Aside: I am not sure if aranea were ever 
officially given a power to control or at least 
direct spiders and giant spiders, but that seems 
to always be a universal assumption by game 
writers that use them 15 . 



As you approach the center, you see a 
throne made of webs and hone. A spider 
the size of a small pony clings to the 
throne, its greenish-brown body extending 
over the back rest even as its front legs 
crouch in the seat. A massive odd-shaped 
lump is notable on its back, something 
you have not ever seen on a spider before. 
It moves its front limbs, and you realize 
they end in flexible digits... almost like 
fingers! 



A spellcraft check with a -2 penally will tell a 
PC with the skill that a tongues spell is being 
cast. 

Assuming conversation is opened, the PCs hear 
the aranea with the voice of an old woman. It 
is likely she is aware of Thyatian incursions to 
the island, so instead of saying "I have not seen 
your like in an age.", she might say, "I have not 
seen your like in a generation." or "40/80 
seasons", instead of "generation". 

Should combat begin Lithira will favor Hold 
Person and should she paralyze all the PCs she 
will start (a one-sided) conversation again, 
while allowing her spiders to climb all over 
them in order to make them sweat. 



15 The first time aranea were given the ability 
to control other spiders was in GAZ13 The 
Shadow Elves. 



In addition to Lithira's spider companions, 
she also has a bugbear bodyguard. The 
original XI had bugbears and aranea as 
friendly, with bugbears patrolling the ground 
below the aranea web lairs. Nowhere else on 
Mystara can bugbears be found having cordial 
relationships with aranea, so next is a little 
historical background on how bugbears came 
to the Isle of Dread and why they have 
partnered with aranea. 

Buqbeaus on ttje Isle of Dueab 

In the year 827 AC, a high-ranking Hulean 
military official returned from Davania with 
a calculated plan. The city of Sasserine had 
always been able to withstand assaults by 
Hulean/Garganin naval and land forces, in 
large part due to its defensive fortifications. 
But this official had observed that its 
plantations and farms outside the city were 
much more vulnerable, albeit difficult to 
reach due to the surrounding swamp and 
jungle. 

For the next five years, Hule embarked on an 
unprecedented and extensive military 
training program, recruiting the most 
aggressive and warlike bugbears that lived in 
the nation. Despite this being the period of 
the "Long Conquest" enough gold and 
resources were provided such that several 
large companies of bugbears, nearly a 
thousand in total, were able to complete the 
program. Taking advantage of a bugbear's 
natural stealth, they were now trained to 
survive in jungle and swamp terrain, as well 
as guerrilla warfare tactics. 

A small fleet of ships was assembled to 
transport these bugbears first to Garganin, 
and from there to the jungles near Sasserine. 
There the bugbears would begin launching 
small scale attacks on vulnerable Sasserine 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 
mam. 




targets as well as build alliances with local 
frogfolk. They would work to bleed Sasserine 
by a thousand small cuts until the next major 
Hulean assault on the city could be conducted. 

But the meticulous plan came to nothing when 
the small fleet was nearly annihilated by a 
fierce storm as it crossed the Sea of Dread. 
Only three shattered ships survived, the rest 
lost with all hands. The remaining ships were 
lashed together and the survivors floated in 
the sea for two weeks. Eventually the human 
sailors were eaten, along with some of the 
weakest bugbears. 

The ships washed ashore on the Isle of Dread. 
The numerous dangers of the island took a 
further toll on the survivors, but their training, 
size and abilities allowed them to persevere. 
Eventually the bugbears came into contact with 
the aranea, and soon an accord was reached. 
The aranea are the dominant partners in this 
alliance, occasionally even using the bugbears 
as a food source, but overall this alliance has 
allowed both races to prosper and survive. 

The bugbears have lost most of their Hulean 
cultural heritage, they even allow the aranea 
to name their young. 

Thuraniran CR 5 

N Bugbear rogue 2/ranger 1 

Initiative +1, Listen + 4, Spot +4 

AC 16, touch 11, flat-footed 15 (+1 Dex, 

+3 natural, + 2 leather armor) 

hp 39, (3d8 + 3d6 + 12) 

Fort +5, Ref +9, Will +3 

Spd 30ft 

Attack Morningstar +6 melee (d8+2) or 
Composite Longbow + 7 (d6 + 2Fort +5, 
Ref +9, Will +3 
BAB +4, Grp + 6 

Str 15, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 
9 



Special Actons: Sneak attack +ld6, trap 
finding, evasion, wild empathy 
Combat Gear: Potion of cure light wounds 
Feats: Alertness, Weapon 

Focus (Longbow), Track, Iron Will 
Skills: Climb +5, Disable Device +6, Hide 
+ 11, Knowledge (nature) +2, Move 
Silently +11, Survival +4, Listen +4, Spot 
+4 

Favored enemy: Animals 

Thuraniran was assigned to Lithira when he 
was a young whelp. He started as a hunter 
and eventually became her most trusted 
bodyguard. When Lithira was exiled he chose 
to follow her rather than abandon her, and 
continues to serve as her protector and 
companion. 

Thuraniran is well-hidden thirty feet away 
inside the remains of a building and currently 
has his bow trained on the party. He will not 
fire unless Lithira is attacked directly. Should 
this happen his first shot will target a PC who 
is flat footed, preferably a spellcaster. He will 
then switch targets to any animal companions 
among the party before continuing to target 
spellcasters. 

Should the party detect him while conversing 
with Lithira he will reluctantly emerge from 
his hiding spot to stand near Lithira while 
remaining silent. 

The final major location in this adventure is 
a shrine dedicated to Demogorgon. A couple 
of encounters in that shrine will get some 
further treatment. 

FieNbisli Rock BabooNS 

The final section of this adventure is a shrine 
dedicated to Demogorgon. In the shrine there 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savaqe Tide AOaptatioN 




is a clan of fiendish baboons which attack as 
a mob, and while the Savage Tide AP mentions 
rock baboons elsewhere on the Isle of Dread, 
Paizo didn't distinguish them at all from 
normal baboons in the Monster Manual. So in 
the shrine they applied the fiendish template 
to the standard baboon from the Monster 
Manual, then made them a mob, rules for 
which are found in the 35 DMG II. 

Rock baboons did feature in the original Isle 
of Dread, this conversion upgrades the mob 
of baboons to rock baboons. 

Upgrading the fiendish baboons to fiendish 
rock baboons doesn't significantly increase the 
power of the mob, as mob rules make a 
number of stats fixed, including number of 
creatures (48), hit dice(30). base attack 
bonus(+22) and Wisdom(lO). So using the 
3.5 baseline stats for a rock baboon the 
statblock changes in the following ways. . . 

Strength increases by 1 to 16. 

Constitution increases by 2 to 14. 

Fort save increases by 1 to +19. 

Grapple increases by 1 to +37. 

Climb increases by 1 to +11. 

Listen increases by 1 to +5. 

Trample now does 2d6+4 points of damage. 

Everything else stays the same. You could up 
the 165 hit points of the mob to take into 
account rock baboons have an extra hit dice 
compared to ordinary baboons, make it say 
195 or 225 hp. But be careful especially if the 
players have never fought a mob or swarm 
before as this encounter has resulted in at least 
one TPK for a group playing the campaign. 

According to the DMG II mob rules, once the 
mob is taken down to Ohp the mob is broken 
with 60% casualties, half of those 60% dead 
and the other half at Ohp. That leaves about 



19 fiendish rock baboons with some hit 
points left that could continue the fight as 
individuals if you are so inclined. Slap the 
fiendish template onto a rock baboon's 3.5 
stats and you are good to go. 

For anyone using BECMI/RC D&D, there is a 
precedent for something similar to these mob 
rules. A rough conversion to BECMI/RC D&D 
could be done as follows- 16 

Take this mob and break it into four squads 
of 11-12 rock baboons each. Each squad 
attacks as a HD monster of the total hit dice 
of all the rock baboons remaining in the 
squad. 11 rock baboons would attack as a 
22-HD monster, for example. Assign a penally 
to the to-hit roll to take into account the 
baboons are feral and uncoordinated. A -4 or 
-6 to hit would be good. A -4 to hit means 
that each attack by the squad has a TFtACO 
of 8, thus an attack hits ACO on an 8 or higher. 

Importantly each baboon squad has to roll a 
dice for their effective number of attacks each 
round. That die has to be the same size or 
smaller than the number of baboons in the 
squad minus the leader. So an 11 baboon 
squad will roll dlO for their number of attacks 
each round. When one baboon is killed, that 
squad now rolls a d8, and so on until there 
are no more than 4-5 baboons left in which 
case they fight as individuals, or split up and 
buttress the remaining squads. 

At full strength with four squads, the baboons 
will be able to make roughly 22 club attacks 
and 22 bite attacks each round doing d6 and 
d3 hp of damage respectively for each hit. 
Assuming they hit 60% of the time, that 
translates to about 65hp of damage per round 

16 This conversion is based on the squad 
based combat rules introduced in M5 Talons of 
Night. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage TiOe AOaptatioN 




in total. This will naturally be divided up as 
squads split up to attack different characters. 
Use those numbers as a baseline and adjust 
according to your parly's strength. 

Ilzytik ttje Spiuit Naqa 

Another encounter in the shrine is Ilzytik the 
spirit naga. I wouldn't consider a spirit naga 
native to the Isle of Dread, but spirit nagas are 
native to Ochalea 17 , so let's give her a name 
change and some background as to how she 
came to the island. 

Shek Xingjuan served a powerful evil spirit in 
Ochalea who moves among human society 
undetected. Serving him as his foremost 
assassin, Shek's skills were instrumental in 
building and maintaining his power. Devoted 
and loyal to him, she regarded her relationship 
as something more than just servant and 
master. 

His last assignment for her was to put to death 
a sea merchant and his closest companions 
when they were far away from Ochalea. She 
stowed away on their ship and completed the 
murders soon after the ship arrived at the 
Thanegioth Archipelago. She had been told a 
one charge teleportation helm would then 
transport her back home safely, but to her 
shock the device did not function. She barely 
escaped the ship with her life, feeling rage and 
despair over being abandoned to fate. 

She began to wander the islands, eventually 
making her way to the Isle of Dread, in hopes 
of finding new allies who could eventually help 
her achieve revenge. Only able to make contact 
with the exile Olangru so far, she bides her 
time hoping to achieve greater power through 
Demogorgon and his minions. 



17 



See p25 of the fan-made Gazeteer of 



Ochalea, written by Giampaolo Agosta 



As part of her tactics, the text of the adventure 
says, "Once alerted, she casts disguise self, 
changing her appearance to that of a zombie 
naga so as to trick opponents into 
underestimating her." 

I never heard of a "zombie naga". I do know 
of a bone naga which is an undead type of 
naga. I think the author meant applying the 
zombie template to a naga, which technically 
is a "naga zombie". Considering that most PCs 
will not have encountered a naga before I am 
not sure how they are supposed to 
underestimate the naga zombie. But I do see 
this tactic being useful if she can get the PC 
cleric to waste a round turning undead and 
possibly another PC throwing something only 
effective against undead at her. If you are 
willing to stretch the spell definition a bit, 
she could disguise herself as a giant snake 
instead. 

NoN-lMMORtal, NoN-ExalteD 
"Least" DeMONS/FieNDs 

Although there is the small possibility of 
encountering dretches in the second 
adventure, the masters of the shrine in this 
adventure are the first significant demons in 
the Savage Tide campaign. The demons here 
are bar-lguras and designed to be a powerful 
challenge for 8th level characters. This fits 
with earlier editions of AD&D and how 
Greyhawk and the Forgotten Realms 
portrayed demons. 

But the perspective on demons/fiends for 
Mystara was quite different due to the rule 
set, where there needed to be challenges for 
30+ level characters and Immortal-level PCs. 
In the Master level modules there were a 
couple of demon Immortals that could be 
killed by a very high level party wielding at 
least one artifact. In the Immortals box set 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




the demons got a power boost being 
Immortals themselves, a major "tribe" in the 
Sphere of Entropy, able to go toe to toe with 
Immortal PCs. This put them out of reach of 
mortals except in the most unusual 
circumstances, such as the use of 
truenames(see the box set itself for details). 

Much later, the Wrath of the Immortals box 
set pushed these demons down a bit to "Lesser 
Fiends" who are Exalted creatures, a level 
between Immortals and mortals. These exalted 
demons still have access to enough power 
points to gain 36th level spell-casting, 
however. It was possible for mortal PCs to take 
down an exalted lesser fiend if they won 
initiative and put enough damage on it before 
it could cast something... since their hit points 
weren't too high. But otherwise an Exalted 
demon played intelligently is likely to lead to 
a TPK for most mortal parties. Banning certain 
spells, such as timestop shenanigans, would 
of course dramatically change probability 
outcomes. 

Regardless, if you look through all the 
products for Mystara you can find hints at the 
assumption that there really are hordes of 
lesser/least demons in the Abyss that don't 
even reach the level of Exalted. Mostly I would 
chalk that up to the built in assumptions of 
writers that were drawing on general D&D 
lore. In GA23 18 , for example, there is a 
beautiful wizardess who offers to marry the 
man who can kill the demon that scarred her 
face. Such a goal was presented as possible to 
be achieved. There are also imp familiars, who 
are not always referred to as Immortals. 

In any case, should you adhere to the original 
Immortals box set cosmology or Wrath of the 
Immortals cosmology, or a mixture between 
the two, you need to figure out what you are 



18 



GAZ3 The Principalities of Glantri 



going to do. IMO, there certainly is room for 
"standard" demons that make up most of the 
hordes in the Abyss. This conversion goes 
forward with that assumption, along with the 
idea that some of the demons have achieved 
exalted status making for exceptionally 
powerful vrocks or succubi, just to provide 
two examples. 

Other extra-planar races like slaad (Dungeon 
Magazine #141 and #146) as well as a 
yugoloth (Dungeon Magazine #146) also 
make appearances, so keep that in mind for 
your campaign's cosmology. 

DUNQEON MAGAZINE #143: 

ADVENTURE #5: 
TIDES OF DREAD 

This adventure begins on Farshore, the 
colony founded by Sasserine in the "safe" area 
of the Isle of Dread, that being the 
southeastern section where the more 
peaceable natives live. This adventure is the 
most non-linear of four set on the Isle of 
Dread, and closely follows the spirit of the 
original XI. The main goal in this adventure 
is to gather resources and make alliances in 
order to defend Farshore from attacks by the 
Crimson Fleet, with the major assault 
providing a satisfying conclusion to the 
adventure. To accomplish this, the PCs begin 
exploring the island and meeting the various 
inhabitants, along with plenty of wandering 
monsters. It is time for some serious hex- 
crawling, and the first few parts of this 
conversion will analyze the wandering 
monster tables in both the original XI and 
this adventure. 

So first let's break out XI. This being the first 
adventure for the Expert box set you find 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




plenty of references on the three wandering 
monster charts to creatures in the basic and 
expert set monster chapters, including, but 
not limited to, cave bears, centaurs, giant 
crocodiles, Cyclops, dire wolves, black, green 
and red dragons, dryads, prehistoric 
elephants, ghouls, hill and stone giants, 
hydras, living statues, giant lizards, lizardmen, 
lycanthropes, mummies, neanderthals, 
rhagodessas, robber flies, rocs, rock baboons, 
giant scorpions, skeletons and zombies, giant 
snakes and spiders, giant toads, treants, trolls, 
wights and wraiths, and wyverns. That is in 
addition to all the dinosaurs and prehistoric 
mammals like the great saber-toothed cat and 
the megatherium (a twenty foot tall giant 
ground sloth). 

There are a few fixed encounters featuring 
monsters which don't appear as wandering 
monsters for whatever reason... they include 
sea snakes, water termites, pirates, hippogriffs, 
gargoyles, bugbears, ogres, troglodytes, and 
giant crabs and oysters. 

One interesting fact is that the south eastern 
peninsula behind the wall is covered by Table 
1 which has just conventional D&D monsters. 
You only start to see the prehistoric creatures 
once you leave that area, with prehistoric 
mammals (Table 2) predominant in the 
southern areas of the island but north of the 
great wall, and dinosaurs (Table 3) 
predominant in areas north of the central river 
which cuts in a northeast/southwest direction 
across the island and central plateau. There 
isn't much in the way of explanation for how 
they tend to stay segregated like that. 
Triceratops do appear in both tables, and even 
on the central plateau (!) although the central 
plateau encounter tables for this AP do not 
appear until Dungeon #145. 



The Savage Tide AP shifts the encounter 
tables around a bit to go for a more consistent 
theme. This issue also begins to detail more 
of the history of the Isle of Dread in the 
Savage Tide campaign. It explains that the 
Isle of Dread originally did not have 
dinosaurs, but instead they came later, along 
with demons when Demogorgon's influence 
began to sway heavily over the island. Many 
of the local fauna were wiped out by this 
invasion, but a few species persisted, 
including wild boars, rock baboons and terror 
birds. 

It then provides three wandering monster 
tables of its own. The first table is for the area 
behind the great wall, called Islands and 
Peninsula encounters. This covers the same 
area as Table 1 in XI, the "safe" part of the 
Isle of Dread. The second table is Aquatic 
encounters, which covers the seas 
surrounding the Isle of Dread. XI only used 
fixed encounters for the sea. And third is the 
Mainland encounters, covering the rest of the 
Isle of Dread. The Mainland encounter table 
has separate entries for each of the major 
terrain types, including jungle, swamp, 
savannah, mountain and the interior lakes. 

For the Savage Tide Isle of Dread, most of the 
prehistoric mammals can only be found 
behind the great wall (Islands and Peninsula), 
often as the dire form of the animal from the 
3.5 Monster Manual. Only terror birds and 
dire bats made it onto the Mainland 
encounter table. Dinosaurs appear on the 
Mainland encounter table and in the 
surrounding seas Aquatic table. 

With regard to the origin of dinosaurs on the 
island, I prefer staying true to XI with the 
idea that dinosaurs have always been there 
and did not go extinct there as they did 
elsewhere in the world. One could explain 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage TiOe AOaptatioN 




this by way of the Carnifex who preserved 
them or that the Immortal Ka did so. 

IslaND aNb PGNiNSula 
ENCouNteus Cable 

The idea that prehistoric mammals can be 
found in this area and the central plateau, out 
of reach of the carnivorous dinosaurs, makes 
sense. There is one substitution suggestion 
and a few window dressing changes to tweak 
this list for Mystara. 

For all the dire animals, use the Monster 
Manual stats for the creature but re-skin it to 
make it more fitting as a giant version of the 
creature or a prehistoric creature or even just 
bring back a BECMI classic. 

Dire Tiger becomes a Saber-tooth Tiger(The 

dire tiger is CR 8, while the Frostburn book 

has a CR 5 Sabre-tooth Tiger.) 

Dire Boars become Giant Boars 19 . 

Dire Apes become advanced White Apes. 

Dire Rats become Giant Rats. 

The only creature to consider tossing out 
entirely is the third entry in the table, the 
ahuizotl. It is essentially an aquatic leucrotta. 
Instead you could try putting normal boars on 
the table, and swapping entries with the dire 
boars so it is more likely to encounter the 
normal sized boars than the giant ones. 
03-08 ld8 boars 
09-10 ld4 dire boars 

That way the natives can have hunting be a 
little safer. 

Another nice touch Paizo did was to give 
specific names to the snakes and giant spiders 
by using real world species rather than just 



use "huge spider" or "large viper". This lets 
you look up the real world species for more 
description. The real life shrieking spider is 
disturbing enough, the giant one may cause 
some fear. 

Should you want to mix in some more D&D 
basic giant spiders and giant lizards into this 
table in the spirit of the original XI, statistics 
are easily found on Pandius or a trusty Rules 
Cyclopedia. 

AQuatic ENCouNteus 'Cable 

This one has a good mix of dangerous giant 
creatures as well as dinosaurs. This is 
consistent with the Mystaran almanacs which 
state aquatic dinosaurs exist around the 
Thanegioth Archipelago. 

One suggestion is to replace the first entry in 
the list, which is an Octopus Tree from the 
Fiend Folio. Any intelligent race would want 
these things wiped out in any area they 
happen to find them. Instead you can try this 
encounter with members of the Twaelar 
Empire, the underwater empire that controls 
much of the area around the Thanegioth 
Archipelago. This encounter is based on 
description of Twealar forces in conjunction 
with the 3.5 Monster manual, and consists of 
a base patrol that has gotten close to the Isle 
of Dread. Note that merfolk are called 
merrow in Mystara, and the 3 5 D&D merrow 
are actually called aquatic ogres in Mystara. 

The merrow patrol appears on a percentile 
roll of 01-02 on the Aquatic Encounters table. 



19 Giant Boars appear in both B10 Night's Dark 
Terror and GAZ12 The Golden Khan of Ethengar 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




Merrow Patrol Leader CR 6 

LN Elite (Merfolk) Humanoid (aquatic) 
bard 6 

Initiative +2, Listen +5, Spot + 2 

AC 14, touch 12, flat-footed 12 

hp 36 (6 HD) 

Fort +6, Ref +6, Will +6 

Spd Land 5ft, Swim 50ft 

Attack: mwk trident +6(d8+l) or mwk 

heavy crossbow +7(+8 in 30 ft range) 

(d 10/19-20) 

BAB +4, Grp +5 

Str 13, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 
16 

Special Actions: Bardic Music, 
Countersong, Fascinate, Inspire Courage 
+ 1, Inspire competence, Suggestion 
Combat Gear: Wand of Bless, Wand of 
Mage Armor 

SQ: amphibious, Bardic Knowledge +6, 
low-light vision 

Feats: Dodge, Great Fortitude, Point Blank 
Shot 

Skills: Balance +6, Bluff +7, Concentration 
+ 7, Hide +6, Jump +2, Listen +5, 
Perform(sing) +13, Sense Motive +4, 
Spellcraft +5 (decipher scrolls +7), Spot 
+2, Swim +9, Tumble +7, Use Magical 
Device +9 (for scrolls +11) 
Bardic Spells (CL 6th) 
2nd (3/day) - Animal Messenger, Heroism, 
Hypnotic Pattern 

1st (4/day) - Cause Fear(DC 14), Charm 
Person (DC 14), Cure Light Wounds, 
Summon Monster I 

0th (4/day) - Flare, Know Direction, Mage 
Hand, Message, Resistance, Summon 
Instrument 

Extra Languages: Thyatian, 

01man(Thanegioth Archipelago) 
Possessions: Leather Armor, Masterwork 
Trident, Masterwork Heavy Crossbow 



Shock Trooper Aquatic Ogre CR 5 

N (Merrow) barbarian 2 

Initiative +1, Listen +4, Spot +2 

AC 18, touch 10, flat-footed 17 

hp 70, (4d8 + 2dl2 + 27) 

Fort +11, Ref +2, Will +l(+3 raging) 

Spd Swim 50ft 

Attack: mwklongspear +12 (d8+9) 
BAB +5, Grp +16 

Str 24, Dex 12, Con 18, Int 6, Wis 10, Cha 
6 

Special Actions: Rage 1/day 
Combat Gear: Partial Carapace Armor 
SQ: Darkvision 60 ft, low-light vision, 
uncanny dodge 

Feats: Power Attack, Toughness, Weapon 
Focus (longspear) 

Skills: Intimidate +2, Listen +4, Swim 
+ 13*, Spot +2 

*The Climb +5 ogres get is changed to 
Swim + 5 for aquatic ogres in the Twaelar 
Empire, they also get the same racial 
bonuses for Swim as merfolk(+8 racial 
bonus to Swim checks and they can take 
10 for a check when swimming). 

10 Merrow Warriors 

(Merfolk) hp 8, Monster Manual page 185 



The Twaelar Empire does not normally send 
its patrols too close to the Isle of Dread, but 
this patrol has taken an interest in the PCs 
and their ship, having determined that they 
are not with Thyatis, which is the only nation's 
shipping the Twaelar have agreed not to harm 
after the recent 1015-1017 AC war. They are 
cautious as the patrol leader is a veteran from 
that war. 

The merrow swim alongside the ship (or 
approach the ship if it is stationary) staying 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savaqe "CiOe AOaptatioN 




just inside range with their heavy crossbows, 
with the ogre and half the merrow hidden 
deeper underwater. The patrol leader calls out 
to the captain and PCs, demanding to know 
their business. He then demands that they 
depart the area immediately, wanting their 
ship to either turn around and head back, or, 
if they are currently repairing the Sea Wyvern, 
to abandon the wrecked ship. 

The PCs may use diplomacy, the merrow patrol 
leader is unfriendly. If he can be made at least 
friendly he will leave them in peace. If only 
made indifferent the patrol will not attack but 
will resort to other measures (see aftermath 
of a fight breaking out). 

Should diplomacy fail to move the patrol 
leader at all, the entire patrol will engage 
except for the ogre, who will remain hidden 
near the patrol leader, protecting him should 
anyone attempt to engage the leader in melee. 
The entire patrol remains in the water to 
benefit from the improved cover(-8 to AC, +4 
to Reflex saves). The merrow warriors will 
snipe at crew and support NPCs first rather 
than target the main combatants (PCs). The 
merrow patrol leader will have already pre-cast 
bless on his men and mage armor on himself, 
he will use his singing and magic to support 
his fellows. 

Any merrow that gets wounded will go 
underwater and flee. Should any be 
incapacitated a fellow merrow will disengage 
and swim the victim to safely. Once half the 
patrol has fled the rest will withdraw and flee, 
regrouping later. 

In the aftermath of hostilities, the patrol leader 
sends a message for reinforcements, and 
begins to use his patrol to shadow the PCs and 
attempt to drive local aquatic monsters into 
their path. This effectively raises the 



percentage chance of an aquatic encounter 
from now on (from 4% to 10%). This will 
continue indefinitely, although there will be 
no encounters during any time period when 
the ship is at Farshore or in Gallivant Cove 
(Emraag's domain). This ongoing harassment 
only stops when one of the following 
conditions occurs... 

1) The patrol observes or finds strong 
evidence* the PCs have killed any kopru. 

2) The patrol observes or finds strong 
evidence* the PCs have killed any devilfish. 

3) Emraag the Dragon Turtle is slain by the 
PCs. (The PCs encounter him in Issue #144.) 

4) The PCs figure out what is going on and 
manage to approach the patrol and either 
wipe it out or re-engage with diplomacy 
successfully. 

5) A Twaelar military company arrives to 
destroy the PCs ship. Note this company will 
not arrive if conditions 1-3 are satisfied, or if 
the merrow patrol is successfully made 
friendly at some point with diplomacy. 

* Strong evidence - The patrol comes across 
the location where kopru or devilfish were 
slain within three days of the PCs having been 
there. 

For situations 1) or 2) the Twaelar decide 
that the PCs are enemies of their enemies and 
leave them alone to see how much they can 
weaken each other. The Twaelar may return 
at a later date, but likely not until after the 
Savage Tide AP is over. 

For situation 3) the Twaelar will figure out 
who slew Emraag and then avoid tangling 
with the PCs as Emraag was greatly feared 
and a powerful enemy. 

For situation 4) should the patrol be wiped 
out the chance of future aquatic encounters 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



will decrease back to 4%, but the Twaelar 
military company will still arrive at some point 
to destroy the PCs ship. They have an accurate 
description and will be able to find it. 

For 5) this has the danger of turning the 
campaign from a focus on the kopru to fighting 
the Twaelar. The PCs should be able to avoid 
this result, so it is up to you decide how long 
before this military company arrives. The 
company should be four times the size of the 
patrol, with 4-6 aquatic ogres and some 
domesticated giant saltwater termites who are 
trained to adhere to a ship hull below the 
waterline and try to sink it. 

MaiNlaND ENcouNteus Rafale 

There is no distinction between the north and 
south regions of the island separated by the 
main river, but there are separate tables for 
different terrain features. Dinosaurs dominate 
the mainland, along with a few wandering 
demons, but you can still find a number of 
classics from the original XI as well. They even 
added a few monstrous plants, and while one 
might quibble with the presence of the red 
sundew and the tendriculous, it isn't a bad 
idea to have a few rare plants around that can 
worry even a tyrannosaur. The greenvise is 
reminiscent of the Cestian gobbler and might 
be a distant relative. 

Other than throwing in some boars or giant 
boars onto the table somewhere, here are 
some cosmetic suggestions. 

Dire bats become giant bats. 

Aranea have a wizard build rather than a 

sorcerer build 20 . 

Bullywugs become frogfolk. 

Baboons become rock baboons 21 . 



20 



21 



A v3.5 D&D conversion for the Aranea 
A v3.5 D&D conversion for the Rock Baboon 



As a complete modification, the Brotherhood 
scouts on the encounter table become a band 
of Heldannic Knight scouting the island. The 
stat block below modifies them from 
monk/clerics to fighter/clerics built in the 
classic style as they were presented by Bruce 
Heard back in Dragon Magazine. These guys 
are ready to hack off some dino legs or carve 
up some PCs with their greatswords. 

Heldannic Knight Scout CR 5 

LE Elite Human fighter 2/cleric 3 

Initiative +6, Listen +5, Spot +3 

AC 20, touch 12, flat-footed 18 

hp 40 (5 HD) 

Fort +8, Ref +5, Will +6 

Spd 20ft 

Melee mwk greatsword +10 (2d6+4) 
BAB +4, Grp +8 

Str 18, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 16, 
Cha9 

Atk Options: Combat Reflexes, Death 
Touch, Smite l/day(+4 attack, +3 
damage) 

Special Actions: rebuke undead 2/day(+ 1, 
2d6+2) 

Combat Gear: Mwk Greatsword, Full Plate 
Armor, See adventure 
Spells Prepared: (CL 3rd, +8 touch, +6 
ranged touch) 

2nd - bull's strength, death knell, sound 
burst(DC 15) 

1st - bane, endure elements (precast), 

inflict light wounds, shield of faith 

0 - cure minor wounds (2), guidance, 

resistance 

SQ: spontaneous casting (inflict spells) 
Feats: Combat Reflexes, Improved 
Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, Power 
Attack, Weapon Focus (greatsword) 
Skills: Concentration +8, Heal +4, 
Intimidate +3, Knowledge (religion) +6, 
Listen +5, Survival +5 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




The map of the Isle of Dread in this issue marks 
the Heldannic Knight (SB) encampment on a 
small island not too far from Farshore. Most 
the knights in this encampment are followers 
of Thanatos. By 1020 AC Thanatos has 
managed to make some headway into Vanya's 
Heldannic Knights after earlier successfully 
infiltrating the Hattians. 

As mentioned in the adventure these HK 
scouts are a vanguard searching for hidden 
magic and relics, and will likely only try to 
murder the PCs. However, a PC with the 
Heldannic Knight affiliation should still have 
a chance for a peaceful settlement. 

These Heldannic Knights have been influenced 
by Thanatos to come to the island so he can 
keep a closer eye on what Demogorgon is 
doing. The Savage Tide isn't subtle, but 
Thanatos can't complain about the unleashed 
chaos and is aware of the distribution of 
shadow pearls. Still, Thanatos does suspect 
that Demogorgon may also be planning to use 
the unleashed power to score a coup and/or 
unseat the Entropic hierarchy. As a result, 
Thanatos is preparing his own contingency 
plans. 

iNtRoDuciNQ ttje 'CoteMic 
DeMONSlayeu Eaulieu 

Paizo created a custom prestige class for the 
Savage Tide AP, the Totemic Demonslayer, 
published in Dragon Magazine #354. 
Unfortunately, there was a communications 
error between the Dungeon adventure writers 
and the Dragon writer who created the 
prestige class. The Dungeon authors were 
expecting a 5 level prestige class, but the 
Dragon author made totemic demonslayer 10 
levels. 



This in and of itself isn't a problem... unless a 
player wants to pick up all ten levels of this 
class by the end of the campaign. The 
problem is that the players are first 
introduced to the totemic demonslayer in 
Dungeon Magazine #145, by an NPC they 
rescue in Issue #144. Issue #145 expects the 
PCs to be 13th level at the start. So if you want 
no more than 6 or 7 levels in the class, you 
can leave that introduction as is. 

But if a player wants to start this off at level 
10 and go through all ten levels, then you 
should have the NPC, Jakara the totemic 
demonslayer meet the PCs during this 
adventure, as they complete quests needed 
to prepare the colony for the final Crimson 
Fleet attack. You can review the information 
he provides in Issue #145, and have most of 
his conversation occur in this adventure 
instead. He will not yet have the scroll tube 
or the stone disk to give to the PCs at this 
point. Also, the missionary Noltus will not 
have undertaken his journey to the central 
plateau, you can have Jakara tell him that 
Noltus is still seeking allies elsewhere on the 
island mainland, or perhaps he is searching 
for any sign of rakasta. 

Jakara can volunteer to find Noltus in order 
to carry their plea for him to return to aid 
Farshore should they think of that, but Noltus 
will not be able to return in time and Jakara 
will have to be rescued in the next adventure. 

Before Jakara departs to find Noltus once 
again, he teaches any PCs interested as well 
as the local native shamans, and the Church 
of the Whirling Fury, the magic of the tattoos 
and the prestige class. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savaqe Tide AOaptatioN 




UNDevelopeD ENCouNteu 
LocatioNS 

In addition to the wandering encounters, 
there are a number of encounter areas which 
get a brief sentence or two of description but 
nothing else, leaving DMs to develop the 
material as they see fit. A number of these 
correspond to original encounter locations 
in XI. 

Blackfen 

The presence of frogfolk may suggest that the 
Temple of the Frog once established a 
presence on the Thanegioth Archipelago in 
the ancient past. 

Fireshriek Isle 

For references to dire apes on the island you 
can use stronger, larger version of white apes, 
which are extinct elsewhere. 

Rat's End 

While the Crimson Fleet sent one of their men 
to take over this pirate den, most of the pirates 
who live here are a mix of deserters from the 
Thyatian navy and criminals from 
Mykonos(the Kastelios colony) as well as a 
few refugees and criminals from various 
nations whose ships have visited the 
Thanegioth Archipelago. 

Rivenskull Caves 

This is the location of the neanderthal caves 
from XI. The full text states... 

"several dozen caverns connected by 
narrow fissures, Rivenskull Cave is 
inhabited by five warring tribes of savage 
humans, throwbacks devolved from 
Olmans due to exposure to the mysterious 
primal fogs that sometimes visit the 
islands reaches. " 



Considering the Savage Tide Isle of Dread 
posits an Olman empire that encompassed 
the entire island in the past, before dinosaurs 
arrived, this is a pretty good explanation for 
how there are neanderthals now on the island. 

For Mystara though, neanderthals were 
presented as more benevolent with their 
Lawful alignment, and treated more like the 
demi-human races rather than as a humanoid 
race. They even got their own D&D class 
write-up back in Dragon Magazine #118. 

If you wish to preserve some of that original 
Neanderthal feel, you can keep the warring 
tribes of neanderthals, but split them into two 
camps. A few tribes have been corrupted by 
the Abyssal fogs on the island, but at least two 
tribes have managed to avoid any demonic 
taint so far, and preserve the old ways. 

The neanderthals, like the dinosaurs, have 
lived on the Isle of Dread since pre-history, 
managing to carve out their own small niche 
in their sacred caves. As the Oltec civilization 
came to dominate the island, they established 
peaceful trade with the neanderthals, but 
largely left them alone and segregated, only 
incorporating a small community of 
neanderthal workers in their capital city on 
the central plateau. 

When the capital city was destroyed and the 
Oltec civilization fell, the neanderthals were 
once again cut off from any modern humans 
except for the occasional Oltec that would 
make the perilous trip beyond the great wall. 
But when the Abyssal fogs corrupted some 
neanderthals, even this limited contact ceased. 

The 3.5 D&D Frostburn supplement provides 
the stats for Neanderthals as 1st level warriors. 
For any Neanderthal encounters, here is a stat 
block to bring them in line with the 2HD 
Neanderthal from the Rules Cyclopedia. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Isle of Dread Baseline Neanderthal 

N Medium Humanoid 

Neanderthal Warrior 2 

Initiative +0, Listen + 2, Spot + 2 

AC 13, touch 10, flat-footed 13 

hp 18, HD 2d8+7 

Fort +5, Ref +0, Will +0 

Spd 30ft 

Melee Greatclub + 5 melee (dl 0+3) or 
spear +2 ranged (d8+3/x3) 
BAB +2, Grp +4 

Str 15, Dex 10, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 
10 (savage neanderthals have Cha 8) 
SQ: +1 attack bonus with primitive 
weapons, Climate tolerant 
Feats: Toughness 

Skills: Climb +4, Jump +4, Survival +4 
Possessions: Hide Armor, Greatclub, 3 
Spears 

For every nine neanderthals encountered, one 
Neanderthal will be a leader type, who is much 
larger. 22 Note that this is an exception to the 
3.5 rules by keeping the neanderthal leader as 
a humanoid type (as opposed to giant) despite 
being size Large. 

Isle of Dread Leader Neanderthal 

N Large Humanoid 

Neanderthal Barbarian 6 

Initiative +0, Listen +1, Spot +1 

AC 14, touch 11, flat-footed 13 

hp 68, HD 6dl2+21 

Fort +8, Ref +3, Will +5 (+7 raging) 

Space 10ft, Reach 10ft 
Spd 40ft 

Attack: Mwk Large Greatclub +11 
melee(2d8 + 4) or Large spear +7 
ranged (2d6 + 4/x3) 

Full Attack: Mwk Large Greatclub +11/+ 6 

2 2 

For details on neanderthal leaders, see the 
D&D Rules Cyclopedia and Dragon Magazine 
#118, p62-63. 



melee(2d8+4) 
BAB +6, Grp +14 

Str 19, Dex 13, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 12, 
Cha 13 

Special Actions: Rage 2/day 
SQ: +1 attack bonus with primitive 
weapons, Climate tolerant, Uncanny 
Dodge, Improved Uncanny Dodge, Trap 
Sense +2 

Feats: Toughness, Iron Will, Power Attack 
Skills: Climb +10(+12 raging), 
Craft (primitive tools and weapons) +4, 
Handle Animal +5, Intimidate +11, Jump 
+ 10, Survival +7 

Possessions: Mwk Hide Armor, Mwk 
Greatclub, 5 Mwk Spears 



Neanderthals are likely to have pets, in the 
Frostburn accessory they keep sabre-tooth 
tigers as pets, in Dragon Magazine they keep 
white ape as pets. Should the PCs interact 
with more than one Neanderthal tribe the 
type of pets they have is one easy way to give 
each tribe a different personality. 

Zotzilatia's Wnatl? 

Zotzilaha is the Monster Ruler of firebats, an 
exalted but not Immortal creature of the 
sphere of Energy. His alignment is chaotic 
neutral, not chaotic evil. He was known to a 
few older cultures as Camazotz. The aspect 
should be considered a mortal identity 
deliberately not at full strength so as to test 
anyone entering his lair. 

PliaNatoN Village 

Should a PC openly display any spider totems 
or other spider symbolism while visiting with 
the phanaton village, the phanaton chieftain 
will be outraged. It will take a DC 20 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




Diplomacy check to smooth things over. The 
only alternative is for the offending PC to kill 
and eat one of the large spiders the phanatons 
keep as livestock. Either will mollify the 
chieftain and he will volunteer his warriors as 
explained in the adventure. 

^eiviple of ttje Jaquau 

The origin story of the rakasta presented in 
this section is an Oltec myth. The rakasta did 
not originate from mutating werejaguars on 
the Isle of Dread, instead they are rakasta 23 like 
elsewhere on Mystara who arrived on the Isle 
via shipwreck. That said, the part about the 
origin of the skinwalkers may very well be true, 
what they are now may have first originated 
with lycanthropy. 

ReclaiMiNQ ttje Sea Wy vcrn 

Like other kopru, you should consider giving 
Skephilipika the additional abilities of fire 
resistance and faster movement speeds. See 
the conversion notes for Dungeon #144 for 
more details. 

FiNal Battle f or Fauslioue 

The adventure assumes that the PCs battle the 
Crimson Fleet at Farshore two months after 
they first arrive at the colony. This is easily 
adjusted based on your campaign, but keep 
in mind the small fleet is traveling from the 
pirate headquarters at Scuttlecove. You will 
need to be sure the fleet has enough time to 
prepare, travel and stop at the north end of 
the Isle of Dread before making the attack on 
Farshore. 

One of the ships has a small contingent of 
yuan-ti supporting the pirates. These creatures 

23 

See Mystara Monstrous Compendium 
Appendix, p91 



have some precedent on Mystara in fan 
works, such as the Serpentine Empire and in 
the Mystaran almanacs it is revealed there are 
some yuan-ti amidst the Manacapuru in 
Davania. If you prefer something else, then 
manscorpions 24 , devil (were) swine 25 or 
diaboli 26 would all make good substitutions. 
The yuan-ti will also appear in the eighth 
adventure, so you will want to make the same 
changes there. 

Any pirates captured will eventually be willing 
to give up information about Scuttlecove and 
the Crimson Fleet when they finally realize 
there will be no more attempts to capture 
Farshore and there is no hope of rescue. This 
process will take weeks or months. This 
would be a good way to provide historical 
background to the players on any NPC villains 
the PCs are likely to face in Dungeon 
Magazine #146, such as the leader of the 
Crimson Fleet, Cold Captain Wyther. They 
can also start to hear rumors about the 
fleshforges of Lemoriax, which transformed 
Vanthus. 

ADDitioNal Crimson Fleet 
CaptaiNS 

Only one pirate captain, Vanthus 
Vanderboren, commander of the fleet, is 
given unique statistics in the final battle. The 
adventure does not mention the other 
captains, assuming they are no different from 
the pirate crew stat blocks. Should you wish 
to distinguish these other captains, you can 
utilize the stat blocks for Scuttlecove thugs 
found in Dungeon Magazine #146. 



24 



25 



See Rules Cyclopedia, pi 91 



See Mystara Monstrous Compendium 
Appendix, pi 6 

26 See Mystara Monstrous Compendium 
Appendix, p26 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




Included below is an optional additional 
captain, Vanthus' second-in-command, a 
baldandar who joined with the Crimson Fleet 
and underwent the process to become a 
lemourian. A lemourian is a type of half-fiend 
detailed in the adventure. The baldandar 
commands the caravel The Kraken. 

NE Medium Outsider CR 11 

Lemorian Baldandar 27 illusionist 3 

Init +9, Listen +10, Spot +10 

AC 20, touch 15, flat-footed 15 (+5 Dex, 

+ 5 Natural Armor) 

hp 56 (6d8+6+3d4+3) 

Fort +6, Ref +8, Will +7 

Spd 40ft 

Attack: 1 claw +10 (ld8+2) 

Full attack: 2 claws +10 (ld8+2) and Bite 

+8 (ld6+2 + poison) and Tail Sting +8 

(ld6 + 2 + poison) 

BAB +5, Grp +7 

Str 15, Dex 21, Con 12, Int 18, Wis 16, Cha 
20 

Atk Options: Smite Good l/day(+9 damage) 
Combat Gear: Wand of Lightning(CL 6th) 
(9 charges), Wand of Magic Missile (CL 3rd) 
(12 charges), 2 potions of cure serious 
wounds 

SQ: Immune to poison, Resist acid 10, cold 
10, electricity 10, fire 10, Spell Resistance 
19, DR 5/magic 

Spells Prepared: (CL 3rd, +6 touch, +9 
ranged touch) 

2nd - mirror image, scorching ray 

1st - charm person(DC 15), color spray(DC 

15), shocking grasp 

0 - dancing lights, daze (DC 14), ghost 
sound, message, resistance 



27 

See Mystara Monstrous Compendium 
Appendix pll and the 3rd Edition updates for 
Baldandar by Jamie Baty and by Robert J 
Schwalb 



Spell-Like Abilities: (CL 15th) 

At will - fly, invisibility 

1/day - confusion(DC 19), magic jar(DC 

20), polymorph 

Spell-Like Abilities: (CL 9th) 

3/day - charm monster(DC 19), 

command (DC 16) 

1/day - dominate person(DC 20), fear (DC 
19), suggestion(DC 18) 
Feats: Combat Casting, Improved 
Initiative, Multiattack, Scribe Scroll, 
Weapon Finesse 

Skills: Bluff +11, Concentration +17, 
Diplomacy +11, Disguise +23, Escape 
Artist +10, Hide +15, Intimidate +12, 
Knowledge (arcana) +13, Listen +10, 
Profession (sailor) + 14, Sense Motive + 10, 
Spellcraft +18(+20 for illusions), Spot 
+ 10, Survival +7, Use Rope +5 (+7 for 
bindings) 

Illusion(Ex): At will and as a standard 
action, a baldandar can duplicate the 
effects of the Veil, Mirage Arcana, and 
Persistent Image spells. The illusions last 
as long as the baldandar concentrates, and 
for ten minutes after it stops 
concentrating. In all other respects, these 
effects are treated as if cast by a 15th level 
sorcerer 

Poison (Ex): Any creature bitten by a 
baldandar must make a fortitude save vs 
DC 14 (Con based) or fall unconscious 
for 10-40 minutes. If hit by its poisonous 
stinger a target must make a DC 15 Fort 
save or suffer the Wisdom damage 
explained in the adventure under the 
Lemorian entry. 

Tactics: The baldandar' s main role in the 
attack on Farshore is to demoralize and 
confuse the inhabitants of Farshore by using 
Persistent Image to first create three 
additional caravels that enter the bay. The 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




first, third and fifth ship approaching Farshore 
will be an illusion. As the pirate crews embark 
for shore in smaller boats the baldandar will 
create additional illusions of small boats full 
of pirates in an attempt to protect the crews 
from incoming fire and magic at the time when 
they are most vulnerable. The baldandar has 
a rat familiar currently watching safely from a 
nearby shoreline. 

Under no circumstances will the baldandar 
join any attack on shore, preferring to stay on 
his ship wrapped in a disguise as an ordinary 
crewman. Should his ship be attacked he will 
attempt to defend it to the best of his ability, 
but upon losing half his hit points he will use 
invisibility and fly to retreat to the nearest 
friendly ship and either blast away at range or 
resume a disguise. Should Vanthus fall, the 
baldandar will order a retreat of the remaining 
ships, abandoning anyone who cannot flee. 
Should it become impossible to flee on ship 
the baldandar will use flight and invisibility 
once again, or even use polymorph to turn 
into a fish or shark and retreat by sea. If all 
else fails, a 200 gp gemstone in the ship's hold 
will serve as a focus for magic jar. Slaying the 
baldandar does not affect VP results unless the 
PCs somehow manage to do so before the 
pirates first storm the beach. Should that 
happen award the PCs +50 VP. 

Should he escape the baldandar may make an 
appearance at the Crimson Fleet headquarters 
in Dungeon #146. 



DUNQEON MAGAZINE #143: 
BACKDROP: FARSHORE 

In addition to the fifth adventure in the AP, 
this issue provides a detailed Gazetteer of the 
colony Farshore which the PCs must help 
develop and defend. The colony rests on the 
small island of Telmute, which was avoided 
by the local natives, although it is surrounded 
by the seven villages of the Oltec. 

'Cllief in ttje Wauetjouses 

Rather than an ethereal filcher stealing from 
the warehouses, the creature is a small 
shargugh 28 . This shargugh is able to use trees 
and other living plants to teleport, and some 
of those plants are stored in the warehouses. 
Or perhaps freshly cut lumber is something 
the shargugh can use for a short time. 

In either case, once PCs discover the thief, 
they will need to use diplomacy to come to 
some kind of peaceful resolution. Killing the 
shargugh will bring down a curse on the 
Farshore colony to such an extent as to make 
Telmute completely barren for farmland and 
game. 

By default the shargugh's attitude to the PCs 
is unfriendly. Should he be even slightly 
wounded or gravely insulted (DM's 
judgement call) by any resident of Farshore, 
his attitude will be hostile. 

Fauslioue Chapel 

All the publicly honored Immortals of 
Sasserine have some space for a shrine 
dedicated to them in Farshore Chapel. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savaqe Tide AOaptatioN 




Vesserin is a full-blooded water elf rather than 
a half-elf, and dedicated to the patron 
Immortal of the Church of the Whirling Fury. 
His four human acolytes honor respectively - 
Hel, Thor, Asterius and Protius. 

rue EiQUtli Oltec Village 

Under the Farshore Hall of Records entry is 
the description of a sidequest for investigating 
the mysterious disappearance of the Oltec 
village which once inhabited the island of 
Telmute. A village war party once went beyond 
the Great Wall and discovered an idol of a great 
ape which they brought back to their home. 
Their village vanished before dawn the next 
day, and all that was found was the idol, which 
was buried for fear of its curse. If the PCs locate 
the site, they find some treasure and a holy 
symbol dedicated to Zagyg. 

All of this is a clear reference to the Greyhawk 
adventure module WG6 Isle of the Ape, which 
is set in a demiplane created by Zagyg. The 
implication is that the Oltec villagers were 
transported to the Isle of the Ape and are most 
likely the barbarian tribe encountered early in 
that module. 

Adapting Isle of the Ape is beyond the scope 
of this conversion, but should you run this 
sidequest exactly as written, the holy symbol 
that is found will be recognized by the PCs as 
Bozdogan(Loki), the patron Immortal of 
Garganin. 

Jabe RaveNS 

Liamae Teslikaria is now a multi-class sorcerer 
and favored soul 29 . She is a favored soul of the 
Immortal Tyche. This changes her bonus 
Weapon Focus feat from shortbow to light 

2 9 

The Favored Soul base class is detailed in 
v3.5 D&D Complete Divine. 



mace. She still has a masterwork shortbow, 
but has a masterwork light mace instead of a 
masterwork dagger. 

DUNGEON MAGAZINE # T 44 

ADVENTURE #6: 

THE LIQHCLESS DEPTHS 

This adventure takes part in the Underdark 
of the Isle of Dread, which never was treated 
or explored in the original module. Thus this 
adventure breaks entirely new ground going 
where no D&D writer has gone before. As 
such this conversion will be more 
accommodating with novelties, since the 
caverns deep below the Isle of Dread may 
well contain creatures that exist nowhere else 
in Mystara. 

Tlie Aboletli PueseNce 

The historical background for the Underdark 
city the PCs explore in this adventure is 
designed for Greyhawk where aboleth are the 
underwater masters. On the other hand, for 
Mystara the aboleth have never been officially 
established, while the kopru and the fan 
created Y'hog Carnifex have had powerful 
empires in the Thanegioth Archipelago in the 
distant past. In truth the Carnifex are the 
Mystara equivalent to the aboleth on other 
D&D worlds, except the Carnifex aren't 
aquatic and they are no longer present. 

Rather than accept the history as presented 
in this adventure, where the aboleth came 
first and the kopru came later, this conversion 
will keep both but keep the kopru who have 
had an established empire in the distant past. 

The aboleth themselves may be alien visitors 
who came to Mystara at the invitation of the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savaqe TiOe AOaptatioN 




Carnifex, or they may be creations of the 
Carnifex, no one knows as there are no 
records. But there were very small enclaves of 
aboleth amidst the Carnifex who managed to 
hide and survive when the Immortals purged 
the Carnifex from Mystara. Never being great 
in number, and in frequent war with the 
kopru, the aboleth have not been as great a 
threat on Mystara as they are on other worlds. 

The kopru on the Isle of Dread, in a calculated 
decision, offered an alliance with the nearby 
aboleth in the hopes these creatures could 
help rebuild the kopru empire. Thus the 
aboleth were invited into kopru territory, and 
granted a great cavern within which they built 
the great aboleth capital city of Golismorga. 

In time the aboleth used their position to gain 
the dominant hand in the balance of power, 
and the kopru were, for a time, partially bound 
in servitude. But the kopru, realizing they 
could not displace the aboleth, turned to 
indirect means to throw off their chains. The 
kopru stepped up their attacks on the surface 
of the Isle of Dread, where the local Oltec 
empire was ascendant and strong. They 
deliberately spread terror and made their 
appearance known, in order to provoke the 
powerful Oltec priests and their Immortal 
patrons, counting on the retaliation falling 
unevenly onto their aboleth masters. 

This gamble succeeded. When Tlaloc's Tear 
struck, all aboleth in the city and surrounding 
area were rendered helpless and dormant. In 
a bloodless victory the kopru regained their 
status as Lords of Dread and took over 
Golismorga. They began to try and extract the 
secrets of city which the aboleth had hid from 
them. 

This background actually changes the likely 
consequences of the adventure conclusion to 



a brighter outcome. Should the Tear be 
destroyed, rather than assuring the return of 
aboleth dominance, it restarts a war between 
the aboleth and kopru that will leave both 
groups in a weakened state as the aboleth 
won't have the numbers to ensure victory. 

UNDeuDaRk ENcouNteus ^able 

This encounter table has no corresponding 
table in the original XI module to compare 
with, so the monsters which are new to 
Mystara have to be judged on a case by case 
basis. Most of the encounters are creatures 
known in Mystara or demons whose presence 
is explained by Demogorgon's influence on 
the island. 

Destrachans 

This new creature introduced in 3 rd Edition 
is one of those aberrations that seem almost 
too bizarre to include. But its appearance and 
abilities almost suggest that the aboleth or 
kopru created these things from magical 
experimentation and surgery on local 
dinosaurs just so they could have some 
anti-magical guardians in place to stop 
potential invaders from above. So I 
recommend these stay with exactly that 
background, they won't attack the kopru. 

Dark Nagas 

These not only appear in the encounter table 
but they also have a presence in Golismorga. 
These dark nagas may be descendants of allies 
or pets of the Y'hog Carnifex, and in more 
recent millennia have survived as 
autonomous allies of the kopru. There is 
mention of nagas in the Serpentine Empire, 
but should you wish to make a substitution 
I would suggest using nagpas 30 . 



30 



See Mystara Monstrous Compendium 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




Phase Spiders 

The only link to Mystara which phase spiders 
have is that in the monster entry for planar 
spiders 31 it suggests that planar spiders may 
be related to phase spiders. The presence of 
phase spiders here in the Underdark suggests 
they don't live here but come to this location 
to hunt. 

Cloakers and Gibbering Mouthers 

Both of these creatures are associated with the 
Dimension of Nightmares rather than being 
native to Mystara. Considering the presence 
of the Nel'thaggu in Golismorga it is clear the 
experiments of the aboleth and the trauma of 
the Tear have resulted in a weakening of the 
barriers between the Dimension of Nightmares 
and Mystara. Should you not wish to use 
either of these monsters, a malfera 32 , mujina 
33 or a nuckalavee 34 would make a reasonable 
substitution. 

'CRoqlobyte Puiests aNb 
Laoqzeb 

The troglodytes in the adventure worship 
Laogzed, and just about all the troglodytes that 
will fight the PCs are clerics. A good 
substitution would be the Immortal Bachraeus, 
or perhaps they directly worship an Outer 
Being as other troglodytes elsewhere in the 
archipelago have been known to do. 

Going forward with the Immortal Bachraeus, 
you can modify the domains of the troglodyte 



Appendix, p82 

3 1 

See Mystara Monstrous Compendium 
Appendix, pl03-104 

3 2 

See Rules Cyclopedia, pi 91 

3 3 

See Mystara Monstrous Compendium 
Appendix, p81 

34 

See Mystara Monstrous Compendium 
Appendix, p85 



lepers, replacing their Death and Destruction 
domains with the Chaos and Entropy 35 
domains. 

They lose their smite attack and death touch, 
but chaos spells are cast at + 1 caster level 
and they gain a single ranged touch attack 
once per day at +2 (3d8) half the damage is 
sonic damage and half unholy damage. Spells 
can be left as is, although you can opt to swap 
out the chaos domain spell Shatter for the 
entropic domain spell Vision of Entropy 36 for 
all troglodyte lepers outside of location A3 
(where the shatter spell will be useful) . 

Irgzid Uzeye, the troglodyte priest who can 
ally with the PCs, makes the same spell 
domain changes as well. His once a day 
ranged touch attack is +6 (4d8) and swap 
out the Death Knell spell for Vision of Entropy 
or Shatter. 

HaMlet of Baubas 

The mongrelfolk in this location have such a 
good explanation for why they are here and 
how they came to be, that I can't find a good 
reason to swap them out for another 
humanoid race common to Mystara. I suggest 
leaving them as is. As a bonus, some will 
resemble rakasta! 

Hall of tlie DueaMCRS 

The skeletal remains of the long-dead kuo-toa 
explorer changes to the skeletal remains of 
a kna 37 , an adventurer of some renown in the 
Twaelar Empire. His coral signet ring is easily 



35 

P 89 

36 

P 96 

37 

See Mystara Monstrous Compendium 
Appendix, p68 



See Fiendish Codex I, Hordes of the Abyss, 



See Fiendish Codex I, Hordes of the Abyss, 





143 




F 











THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savaqe "CiOe AOaptatioN 




recognized there. Some shattered potion 
bottles are among the remains (air-breathing). 



speed per round (compared to 5ft in 3rd 
Edition D&D). 



HolasliNeu 

Holashner is an Elder Evil that burrows 
through the earth and is highly regarded by 
the aboleth, who built a ziggurat in its honor 
in Golismorga. Holashner becomes one of the 
most powerful, if not the most powerful, 
Burrowers that Thanatos sent to Mystara. It 
may also have been, or still is, an Outer Being. 
While Holashner is largely inactive due to 
Immortal magic, it has been able to spawn 
several offspring in a long-term plan to free 
itself, one of these spawn is the bilewretch 
encountered later in the adventure. 

Kopuu Fine Resistance aNb 
MoveivieNt SpeeDs 

While neither the original XI module nor the 
v3.0 Monster Manual II entry for the kopru 
gave them any sort of fire resistance, their 
background strongly suggests it. The kopru in 
XI are found in boiling mud geysers. Kopru 
were later given the equivalent of a permanent 
clerical resist fire 38 in BECMI/RD D&D. So I 
would recommend granting them the ability 
Resistance to Fire 10 at the very least, or some 
higher score as you deem appropriate. The 
kopru behemoths (advanced kopru) and NPC 
Ulioth can have an even higher resistance to 
fire. 

I also recommend granting them their original 
XI swimming and land movement speeds, 
which was a 50 ft swimming speed per 
round (compared to 40 ft in 3rd Edition D&D) 
as well as a giving them a 10 ft land movement 



Kopuu Slaves 

Should you use the suggested historical 
timeline for the Isle of Dread, the kopru likely 
have some captured Thyatian slaves from the 
short time period when Thyatis established 
a base on the island. Having a few Thyatian 
slaves show up in Golismorga as thralls of the 
kopru, will give the PCs an extra goal should 
they try and rescue them. A few Oltec slaves 
are another possibility. 

Extua QoliSMORQa ENCouNteR 

This city is completely alien and only parts of 
it are under kopru control. It is quite clear 
some of the buildings are alive in some 
fashion, although the adventure does not 
provide a combat encounter with a building. 
You can use this encounter anywhere in the 
city. 

The particular building which the PCs are 
passing by is a Scamille. It is an amoeba like 
creature similar to a mimic which can only 
take one form, the aboleth created a few 
gargantuan and colossal sized scamilles for 
some of their structures. Unlike a normal 
scamille, this scamille's lower half is 
permanently stuck in its alternate form, and 
anchored in place, allowing it to attack with 
only three pseudopods, instead of the normal 
six. Should it be reduced to Ohp, it will go 
immobile in building form and play dead. 
Should it be brought to -10 hp or less, the 
magic holding it in place will end, leaving it 
to collapse as a giant dead amoeba. 



See PC3 Creature Crucible The Sea People, 
p22-23 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




Scamille 39 (Living Building) 

N or NE Gargantuan Aberration CR 13 

Initiative +5, Listen +20, Spot +20 

AC 23, touch 5, flat-footed 23 

hp 513 (4ld8+287) 

Fort +14, Ref +14, Will +27 

Space/Reach: 20ft/20ft 

Spd Oft 

Full Attack: 3 slams at +37 (6d6+ll) 

Base Atk +30, Grp +53 

Str 33, Dex 8, Con 25, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 

13 

Special Actions: Adhesive punch 
SQ: Alternate form, amorphous, darkvision 
60ft., light vulnerability, tremorsense 60ft 
Feats: Alertness, Improved Initiative, 
Investigator, Iron Will, Greater Fortitude, 
Lightning Reflexes, Improved Natural 
Armor (x5), Endurance, Diehard 
Skills: Diplomacy +16, Disguise +30, 
Gather Information +12, Knowledge 
(history) +20, Knowledge (local) +17, 
Listen +20, Search +9, Sense Motive +16, 
Spot +20 

Adhesive Punch (Ex): Each round, a 
scamille may designate one of its 
pseudopods to become adhesive. A target 
successfully hit by that pseudopod takes 
normal damage, and the scamille 
immediately starts a grapple as a free action 
without provoking an attack of opportunity. 
If the grapple succeeds, the scamille may 
hold the victim and inflict damage 
automatically each round. Due to the 
adhesive on the pseudopod, the scamille 
receives a +8 bonus to all grappling checks 
with that pseudopod. 



39 

See Mystara Monstrous Compendium 
Appendix p95 and Jamie Baty's 3rd Edition 
update for Scamille 



Alternate Form (Su): The scamille is 
effectively camouflaged as an object of its 
form, and it gains a + 10 bonus on Disguise 
checks. 

Amorphous (Ex) : A scamille in its natural 
form has immunity to poison, sleep, 
paralysis, polymorph, and stunning effects. 
It is not subject to critical hits and, having 
no clear front or back, cannot be flanked. 

Light Vulnerability (Ex) : Any spell with the 
Light descriptor cast at a scamille will 
prevent the scamille from forming its 
pseudopods and attacking for one round 
Those effects are in addition to any other 
damage the spell may inflict. The scamille 
automatically fails any saving throw against 
a spell with the Light descriptor. 

Tremorsense (Ex): A scamille can 
automatically sense the location of 
anything within 60 feet that is in contact 
with the ground, so long as it is touching 
the ground itself. 

Should the PCs encounter another scamille, 
the second one will be friendly but can only 
converse in Aquan or the Aboleth language. 

riie ZiQQuuat Spring 

In the chamber where the PCs face off against 
Ulioth, the kopru leader, they will note that 
strange maps appear to have been more 
recently etched on the sections of partial 
stonework on the floor. A DC 35 Knowledge 
(geography) check is enough for the PC to 
recognize these as maps of the Twealar 
underwater empire and regions of the Sunlit 
Sea. There are six black circles marked 
around what would correspond to 
underwater city locations. The kopru have 
smuggled shadow pearls into those cities, this 
is in addition to those pearls delivered to the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 
mm 

SHSftAAAMflfli 




Crimson Fleet which the PCs will learn about 
in the next two adventures. 

DUNQEON MAGAZINE #145 

ADVENTURE #7: 

Ciry OF BROKEN IDOLS 

This adventure focuses on the evil at the top 
of the central plateau and gives the PCs a 
chance to shatter Demogorgon's hold on the 
Isle of Dread for good. This adventure is spot 
on in its portrayal of the central plateau, and 
the only changes to be suggested are just 
minor details and a few pieces from the 
original XI. 

Tlie MissiNQ MissioNairp 

As was mentioned in Tides of Dread, this 
section may change if you already introduced 
had Jakara introduce his totem magic to the 
PCs. But here he comes back to thank them 
for their rescue, and to tell them where he last 
saw Noltus Innersol, the missing missionary. 

Instead of Pelor, Noltus is a priest of Ixion. 
This adventure mentions he was from 
Sasserine which is fine, but based on his name 
having his origin be from Thyatis works just 
as well. 

The disc which Noltus found and Jakara gives 
them is referring to a minor artifact, a magic 
bow, which appears later in the adventure. 
The bow's usefulness to the AP actually stirred 
up some dissatisfaction among groups playing 
it, so there are some suggestions on how to 
change it later. If you change it to another 
weapon, the disk depiction will need to change 
as well. 




Disk of the Three Immortals 

4The disk also portrays the three gods 
Tezcatlipoca (god of the moon), Tonatiuh 
(god of the sun) and Quetzalocoatl (god of 
the air depicted as human and a serpent). 
This trinity of Immortals in Mystara becomes 
Kalaktatla(better known as Ka), 
Otzitiotl (better known as Ixion), and 
Orontiuh (better known as Odin) . Orontiuh 
is the ancient Oltec name for Odin, but he is 
known among the natives of the Isle of Dread 
by the name Oloron, Lord of the Skies. This 
is consistent with XI, where Umlat, tribal 
cleric of Mantru on the central plateau, 
worships Oloron. 

HY) CeNtual Plateau 

The Central Plateau Encounters table is just 
about perfect as is. Comparing it to the 
Central Plateau Wandering Monsters table in 
XI I see everything important is already there 
and nothing that obviously needs to be taken 
out. You could pull out the chuuls which are 
an aquatic encounter if you don't like this 
monster introduced in 3 rd Edition. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AfcaptatioN 




Certainly if you need more variety, you can 
add back in some cave bears, pterodactyls 
(smaller version of the pteranodons), normal 
boars, prehistoric elephants, dire wolves or 
even just a generic animal herd. But it hardly 
seems necessary. One element from the 
original XI table that I think should be added 
in is the Tremor entry, achieved only on a roll 
of double 6 there. For this conversion II would 
suggest picking a good time or using it should 
you roll a duplicate of an earlier encounter. 

Tremor: Minor quakes that vary in severity on 
the central plateau and last 10-30 seconds. Roll 
ad6. 

1-4: Minor Shock- No effect 

5: Major Shock- Characters knocked off their 
feet, 30% chance of falling if climbing cliffs 

6: Sever Shock- Trees tilt, rocks fall, small 
cracks appear in ground, characters knocked 
off their feet, 5% chance per character of taking 
3d6 damage from falling trees if in forest, 60% 
chance of falling if climbing cliffs 

LizaubMaN CaMp 

The leader of the lizardmen, Rissashtak, also 
a cleric of Pelor in the adventure, becomes a 
cleric of Ixion having studied under Noltus. 
Ixion and Pelor are so close in purpose that 
there is no need to change Rissashtak' s clerical 
domains, they match perfectly with Ixion. 

'Caboo ^eiviple 

The temple itself gets a few cosmetic changes. 

At the Temple Entrance (Location 2), the 
collapsed statue of a serpent portrays 
Kalaktatla; the bas reliefs are of Otzitiotl 
(depicted with a sun) and Orontiuh (cloud). 



At the Vault of the Sun and the Moon 
(Location 13), the three figures represent 
Kalaktatla (feathers), Otzitiotl (sun) and 
Ortontiuh (cloud). The moons, stars, and 
suns are unchanged. (The Oltecs were into 
astronomy.) It should be noted that the 
images that appear are being generated by 
magic embedded in the room itself, magic 
created to hold the artifact weapon in 
safekeeping, rather than being actual 
messages from the Immortals. As such, the 
first bit of the message should probably be 
modified as follows. 

"The time when this place was holy is long 
gone, and there are no longer any among 
our children's children who recall what 
has been lost. So be it. Still, we can help 
you, strangers, in this fight that is both 
revenge for the past and hope for the 
future. Heed our words. " 

Should any of the PCs be native to the Isle of 
Dread, the address above will change slightly 
to acknowledge they are not strangers, but 
the last of their children's children. 

HY)G NiMbus Bow 

As presented, the Nimbus Bow is both an 
artifact and a powerful shocking burst 
longbow which has even greater powers 
against dragons, reptilians and creatures with 
the Earth subtype. Why is that a problem? 
Because there are few such creatures awaiting 
the players in the remaining adventures of 
the Savage Tide campaign, and the one set 
of opponents which the players can expect 
to see at horde levels are demons. . .which are 
immune to electricity in 3.5. As one player 
put it, "No thanks, I will keep the evil outsider 
bane longbow I found earlier." 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "CiOe AOaptatioN 




The adventure writers stated they didn't want 
the Nimbus Bow to become the central focus 
of the campaign, but I think they went a little 
too far. So what can be done? Well, if you do 
have an archer, and you want to keep the bow, 
you could change the damage type to sonic, 
so the bow is blasting with thunder instead of 
lightning, to keep with the storm theme. 

Or, if you have another character who will 
benefit, you can change the bow to a 
completely different weapon altogether. 
Something suited for a particular PC. If any PC 
is native to the Isle of Dread, they should be 
favored before others. The new weapon keeps 
the control winds, summon nature's ally and 
warp woods spells but its other powers can 
be changed to fit your campaign. 

SkiNwalkeus 

The Oltec natives on the central plateau that 
have fallen to kopru corruption have all been 
turned into skinwalkers as the PCs start this 
adventure. To create a skinwalker, an Oltec is 
flayed with a demonic lash, and then burned 
alive on a pyre. Just before death, the skin of 
a jarilith(a demonic lion) is thrown into the 
fire. The skinwalker is the merging of the two 
into one. 

Instead of a jarilith, the skinwalkers may have 
a rakasta skin, making their creation that much 
darker. Should the PCs have taken an interest 
in the rakasta, but been unable to find any 
living rakasta earlier in their searches of the 
island, this can be revealed to them at an 
appropriately horrific moment. 

'Caboo ^eiviple Kopuu 

As these kopru have gained the fiendish 
template, this should boost their fire resistance 
up even higher than that listed in their stats. 
You can even go all the way and just give them 



fire immunity. See the kopru entry in the 
previous adventure for justification. 

According to the ledger the PCs find, at least 
thirty-five shadow pearls have been delivered 
to the Crimson Fleet for distribution in the 
outer world. Discounting the one that was 
destined for Sasserine, you have thirty-four 
major cities in Mystara that are in great 
danger. . .make the most of it. Any major city 
the players happen to be attached to, 
especially from previous campaigns, should 
be threatened. An opportunity to get a 
complete or partial list of deliveries may be 
possible at the Crimson Fleet headquarters. 

The ledger should also make note that the 
kopru kept an additional six pearls for 
themselves. As mentioned in the previous 
adventure, these six the kopru have delivered 
to underwater cities of their enemies. 

Kliala ttje 'Cwo-HeaDeD 

The master villain on the Isle of Dread is an 
aspect of Demogorgon, a uniquely powerful 
demon that appears to be a cross between 
Demogorgon and a kopru. The closest thing 
that Immortals have to an aspect would be 
an avatar, but even avatars are restricted from 
materializing on the Prime Material Plane. So 
here are some suggestions for alternative 
origins for Khala. 

One choice is to make Khala a mortal identity 
of Demogorgon. This is a bit of a cheat, since 
technically an Immortal's mortal identity has 
to be mortal, but BECMI D&D never had any 
demon less than exalted so there was no 
possibility of a demon mortal identity. This 
does work if you assume lesser demons than 
exalted exist as discussed earlier in this 
article, although as a mortal identity Khala is 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savaqe "CiOe AOaptatioN 




a bit underpowered and a battle against Khala 
essentially has the PCs fighting the final villain 
of the campaign much earlier. That may or 
may not be to your taste. 

Another possibility is Khala is a lesser fiend 
who is on the path to true Entropic 
Immortality under Demogorgon's patronage. 
He may even be one of Demogorgon's own 
spawn. There is a canonical precedent for 
exceptional mortals who have an Immortal for 
a parent. 40 So having Khala being the offspring 
of Demogorgon and a kopru and being the 
key to Demogorgon's hold of the Isle of Dread 
is accounted for in the Isle of Dread timeline. 

DUNGEON MAGAZINE # 1 46 

ADVENTURE #S: 
SERPENTS OF 
SCUTXLECOVE 

The first sentence of this adventure sums it up 
best. . . "The vile city of Scuttlecove is the home 
of murderers, thieves, demon worshipers, 
peddlers of vice and monsters." 

PlaceMeNt of Scuttlecove 

The most important thing is to locate a place 
for Scuttlecove. In Greyhawk it is 1200 miles 
away from the Isle of Dread, but you can place 
it even farther away and still have time for the 
Crimson Fleet to make a two month journey 
to Farshore from Tides of Dread. You can even 
give more leeway if you assumed that the 
Crimson Fleet had already been planning an 
attack on Farshore even before the PCs arrived 
at the Isle of Dread. Your main concern is to 

40 The NPC Vix from the adventure HWQ1 The 
Milenian Sceptre is a daughter of an Immortal, 
with exceptional powers. 



have the place be isolated enough or at least 
be tolerated by the local powers that be. 

Some suggestions would be the island of 
Lesser Ne'er-Do-Well, an island off the coast 
of Jaibul, Minaea, the anarchic countryside 
of Surshield, or the far side of Oceania away 
from the night dragons. Lastly, if you set 
Sasserine on Davania in one of the two 
swamp hexes suggested earlier in this 
conversion, you could go ahead and set 
Scuttlecove in the other. 

BackQROUNb if usinq Ne'eu-Do- 
Well 

In AY 2002, as the young Pharaoh 
Ramenhotep XXIV took the throne of 
Thothia, ending the long domination of the 
cult of Arachne Prime on his people, a 
number of other cults ~ tolerated by the 
mystic followers of the Spider's Web, mostly 
because they were too small and weak to be 
a threat ~ realised that the kingdom was about 
to become unsafe for them as well. Two of 
these cults were small circle of "ur-priests" 
known as the Holy Triad and the cannibalistic 
monks called the Order of Dire Hunger, allies 
both by necessity and inclination. They fled 
Thothia at the same time, eventually coming 
to the Alatian island of Ne'er-Do-Well. 

After performing certain services for King 
Koryn the Harpist, the Holy Triad received 
permission to make a home for themselves 
on the lightly populated island of Lesser 
Ne'er-Do-Well. The Big Dipper may have 
assumed that the Holy Triad would simply 
focus on their own, esoteric pursuits and 
pose no real problems for him. He was 
unpleasantly surprised when the community 
that grew up around their palace became a 
serious rival to his own Crossroads, a place 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savaqe Tide AOaptatioN 




where people could indulge in pursuits that 
made the "normal" depravity of Ne'er-Do-Well 
seem tame. Koryn has long sought to bring 
Scuttlecove back under his control, but has to 
tread lightly to avoid arousing its populace ~ 
many of whom possess dangerous powers ~ 
against him. 

Around AC 1015, the Holy Triad withdrew to 
their mansion, no longer interacting with the 
public except through their agents, the monks 
of Dire Hunger. A year later, the brothel called 
Porphyry House opened its doors. Within only 
a few months, it underwent a change of 
ownership, as the "black nymph" named 
Tyralandi allied with a group of adventurers 
to defeat the cult of Demogorgon that 
operated behind Porphyry House's doors. (She 
then turned on and betrayed the adventurers, 
and they all died screaming. Who says there's 
no such thing as a happy ending?) 

Soon after, the monks of Dire Hunger 
discovered (and inadvertently revealed to the 
rest of Scuttlecove's factions) that the Holy 
Triad had vanished without a trace. There was 
no "tremendous storm that left hundreds 
dead"; they had simply disappeared without 
explanation. Since then, the city has been in 
a state of civil war. Koryn the Harpist has been 
subtly aiding the faction called the 
Protectorate, because they seem like the least 
dangerous of the various groups, but he must 
be sparing in his aid, since the factions would 
unite against an outside influence like him, 
and Koryn is not at all sure that he'd be able 
to survive such a conflict. (And much like a 
certain distant, deceased cousin of his, he's 
No-Man's-Fool.) 



BacKQRouND if usinq a ReMote 
locatioN sucli as DavaNia or 
OceaNia 

A particularly depraved small circle of 
Alphatian wizard "ur-priests" known as the 
Holy Triad managed to escape the destruction 
of Alphatia, bringing along with them their 
bodyguard and servants, a group of 
cannibalistic monks called the Order of Dire 
Hunger. This circle already had an alternate 
home carved out some years before, the city 
of Scuttlecove, which the Holy Triad had 
started to found a new society, abducting a 
variety of citizens from other nations until 
they had a sustainable population. They 
quickly took full-time control from the other 
factions, including the Crimson Fleet. But 
this would only last a few years (see prior 
entry for the rest of the details starting in 
1015 AC). 

Crimson Fleet Base Wau Room 

Here the PCs will find among the logs and 
ledgers no less than 35 different cities to 
which a shadow pearl has been delivered. Be 
sure to include on this list any cities that the 
players may be attached to from previous 
campaigns set on Mystara, to make it more 
personal. For a sample list of cities you can 
refer to Table 2. A note may be found that 
the pearl destined for Sasserine was lost with 
the destruction of the hidden base at Kraken's 
Cove. Another note may be found that the 
ship approaching the city Tanakumba in the 
Divinarchy of Yavdlom was ambushed as if 
their arrival was expected when they reached 
the coastline, with the ship and pearl barely 
escaping capture. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




Table 2: Cities with Shadow Pearls 



Citv 


v >^ J l_l 1 1 1 1 y 


V> \J M.M. LXJIjIC JlJL 1. 


C?|JCa.l (JLJlllL 


lv"i non ^i if*criif i l/ r i 
JVlllJ^LUJlll kJL oLllSlllClLl 


Rf^l 1 i ceo i*i o 
DClllSSa.! la. 


^ 1 O CSCWTt c r\ 
OLcLftKJ V 1C11 


V^lLy oLd.LC Ul OltlJ^vJ V1C11 


LjL Llll 


LLa.HJ.cLHl V^lLy 


JL.llllld.LCo KJL llo.lLio.lll 


Ul Llll 


jnLttlLltlS 


Fmnirp r\T T'ri'\70l~ic 
Jj,111|J11C LJ1 lllyd.ll?> 


1)1 Llll 


W t~f* n r\ o *i 

JAC1 CllLltXS 


T^mfiiff* nf T'Itvo'Hc. 

JL,111|J11C KJL lliy.Llo 


Ul Llll 


IVld.CllC LU5 


FmnifP r\T T*ri'\70i u ic 
.C111|J11C LJ1 lllyd.Ll3 


Ul Llll 


IVCLCL/lLls 


JZLIIipilC KJL 1 Ily<iLl3 


Ul Llll 


1 CI x\lVL/ll 


JJ,111|J11C Ul lllydll?> 


Ul Llll 


LLLycLLlj V^lLy \t \J\ZcLLL&) 


JJ,111|J11C Ul lllyd.Ll3 


Ul Llll 


ollll CLU11 


JT1VC ollllCo 


Ul Llll 


"KtvH hi ii*o 

J. 1 C1UU1 ft 


1 IvlvialllllL. 1 CI 1 ILvJl ICS 


Ul Llll 


WCCa.llSCllLl 


11 plrlinnir TV* tf^\ i~i 
STL ClLld-lllllC 1 Cll ILOl ICS 


Ul Llll 


iciciiui v_> i l y 


XVI 1 lJ^LlLJl 1 1 KJL IClCllvll 


Ul Llll 


1 fo lofi 


TTioonntn f~\T k'o r*o m ^ i L'r^vc 

IVlllJ^LlLJlll vJl IVtll til 1 1C llvwc) 


Ul Llll 


1YC1V111 


ITitKtnnm r^ir k'l r*i ^ i L'r^vc 

XVlllgvlvJlll vJl Ivtll til 1 1C llvw?) 


Ul Llll 


TVf if 1* o< 

IV111 1 Uj 


IVllllivlvJlll KJL Xvtll alllCIJVUO 


Ul Llll 


To ini i 1 
J till J LI 1 


JVlllJ^LUJlll vJlJd.lL/Lll 


Ul Llll 


JVTinfothciri t^itv 

IVlllll ULlldd VjlLy 


]VTinf*r\t"hci H f -ri 1 il/ic 

IVlllll L/L11.L1 VJLlllLlo 


Ul Llll 


ZjCaUUl 


V_/aLla.llLl 


Ul Llll 


At" ri pn r"\c 
xiLllCllvJS 


1VC|JLIL/11C vJl LJcLL LIlVlll 


Ul Llll 


Ti^o fi^l^i n C^t i~\T 
jLSdJLlJJBJ.il v_>l Ly 


Dpni i \~\\ tc f~\T T^i 1 1'r^vL'i n 
1\C|JLIL/11C Ul 1-^tll wlvll 1 


Ul Llll 


^f^lrf^n tea 
oClClllCd. 


Dpni i r\l t c f~\r T^i i rnlri n 
IVCpLlUllC Lll UcLL LI1V111 


Ul Llll 


Qqvr T Tl d n 

3<tyi Ula.ll 


OlllLl 


Ul Llll 


^ O H f* f*ri O f*H 
OULICHJ LJ1 LI 


Rfriofri To rlnnm*i 

OLJL1C1 1| Lll Ll J til 1 LI vJ 1 1 1 k> 


Ul Llll 


IN Ol 1 VJJv 


A/f^cl"! inn 
V CSLltlllLl 


Rn i n 
Ul Llll 


Crar&anin 

V.J til taill J.J.X 1 


Clitv-Statp of Crareanin 


Davania 


Kastelios 


City-State of Kastelios 


Davania 


Ravenscarp 


Empire of Thyatis 


Davania 


Redstone Castle 


Empire of Thyatis 


Isle of Dawn 


Dunadale 


Exarchate of Heldun 


Isle of Dawn 


Newkirk 


Exarchate of Westrourke 


Isle of Dawn 


Trikelios 


Kingdom of Trikelios 


Isle of Dawn 


Seashield 


Kingdom of Aquas 




Skyreach 


Kingdom of Ar 




Beitung 


Ochalea 






THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




Should you wish to wrap up the adventure 
path on Mystara instead of following the 
storyline of the last four adventures, the PCs 
can arrive here before many savage pearls have 
been distributed. A small handful of savage 
pearls may still need to be recovered from a 
few cities, and the guardians of the pearls will 
test the limits of even high-level adventurers. 

Regardless of where the campaign goes from 
here, prominent NPCs from threatened 
nations will be keenly interested in this 
information. Powerful rulers and/or 
adventurers from Thyatis and elsewhere will 
learn of the general threat from the pearls and 
seek out the PCs to barter for more 
information and advice. 



BACKDROP: 
SCUTXLECOVE 

NPC abjustMeNts 

Tyralandi is a servant of the Entropic Immortal 
Masauwu. 

Lars Landicaster is a human forester rather 
than a ranger. His sympathies lie with the 
Church of the Whirling Fury which makes even 
more sense if you make Carlitha Starbrow the 
Immortal behind the church. Lars does not 
feel he has abandoned Illsundal or Thyatis, 
but does what he can to pursue their ends 
here in Scuttlecove. That he has not lost his 
spellcasting ability seems to indicate he is 
correct. 

Substituting Mystara Immortals for Greyhawk 
Gods 



The House of the Black Rider is dedicated to 
Demogorgon in his aspect as the patron of 
diseases. This particular cult of Demogorgon 
is actually not allied with the Crimson Fleet 
and the Seventh Coil, which has kept it 
relatively small and powerless. Many in the 
city worship an Immortal they believe is 
Incabulos, patron of disease, but they are 
actually honoring Demogorgon. 

Cults of Vecna are mentioned as working in 
the city, they can be replaced by small cabals 
worshipping either Alphaks, Atzanteotl, Loki, 
or Masauwu (or all four). 



DUNCJEON MACJAZINE 
ISSUES#I47-#I50 

The remaining adventures leave Mystara 
behind as the PCs proceed to take the fight 
to Demogorgon on the Outer Planes. Should 
Threshold magazine make a visit to the Outer 
Planes in the future you can expect a Part 2 
to this article. In the meantime you can find 
C Richard Davies ideas on the remaining 
adventures at Pandius 41 and expect 
conversion notes by David Keyser to continue 
in the future at the Piazza forums. 



41 



http:// pandius.com/stmyst9.html 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savaqe "CiOe AOaptatioN 




DRACJON MACJAZINE 
ISSUES#34S-#3 5 5 

SAVAQE riDINQS 
ARTICLES 

Dragon Magazine provided support for the 
Savage Tide AP in the format of at least one 
article (and sometimes two) per month as each 
Dungeon issue was released. 

Issue #348 

This issue detailed the affiliations in Sasserine 
including their affiliation tables. Some 
adjustments can be made. 

For Church of the Whirling Fury, should you 
substitute Carlitha Starbrow for Gwynharwyf, 
the following adjustments can be made to the 
table. 

Add an entry for Is a Waterelf with a score 
modifier of +1. Makes a pilgrimage to the 
Court of Stars should be changed to Makes a 
pilgrimage to Carlitha Starbrow' s home 
plane. Remove the entry Member of champion 
of Gwynharwyf prestige class. 

Replacing the Scarlet Brotherhood with the 
Heldannic Knights, make the following 
adjustments to the affiliation table and the 
benefits table. 

Purebred Suel is changed to Purebred Hattian. 
Remove the evasion and improved evasion 
entries and replace with Cleric ofVanya with 
a score modifier of +1. Replace Recovers a 
lost artifact of the Suel Imperium with Recover 
lore or artifacts ofVanya. Remove the Is good 
entry. 



In the benefits table, the gang of four cousins 
is modified to be four veteran soldiers that 
are warrior 4. The honor guard entry is 
modified to be four Heldannic Knights that 
are fighter 2/cleric 6. 

The Seekers are an organization known on 
the continent of Davania, and have spread 
into nearby regions of the Sea of Dread. They 
have not yet opened a lodge on Brun. 

Issue #349 

This issue details the surrounding environs 
of Sasserine, which would need to be 
modified based on where you decide to locate 
the city. The Dungeon of Rust and Fire and 
the lair of the red dragon Hookface could be 
located near the border of Emerond where 
some hill/jungle terrain is located. 

The Misroi Plantation is a reference to the 
Ravenloft Domain Lord Anton Misroi, who 
rules the Isle of Terror Souragne and first 
appeared in the Ravenloft adventure RQ1 
Night of the Walking Dead. 

Issue #350 

This issue focuses on the sea voyage. 
References to the Jeklea Bay, Azure Sea, Pearl 
Sea and Vohoun Ocean should be changed 
to the Sea of Dread. The regional feat Vohoun 
Eye is renamed Dread Eye. The Emerald Crest 
Guild affiliation is introduced, this guild has 
a presence in every city-state along the coast 
of Davania as well as Ochalea and the Pearl 
Islands. For inspiration and further 
development you can use the real-world 
Hanseatic League for ideas. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savage "Cifce AOaptatioN 




Issue #351 

Larissa Vanderboren's journal uses Greyhawk 
calendar dates. The year changes from 593 CY 
to 1019 AC using the Sasserine timeline. Table 
3 provides suggested date conversions for 
Mystara using the Thyatian calendar. 

Issue #352 

This issue provides more information on the 
Oltec. Some information on the Usi tribe was 
inadvertently dropped, and the Dream Seer 
feat mentioned in the Oltec affiliation table 
was not described. 

The Usi tribe is a very warlike tribe and these 
Oltec have always been standoffish and distant 
from the other tribes. This has become even 
more so recently, and they have withdrawn 
almost all contact. [DM Note: This is due to 
the presence of the nearby Heldannic Knights, 
who have been visiting the tribe once per week 
to preach, convert and awe the Usi with their 
divine magic] The Usi are known to respect 
both tattoo magic and divine magic. 



Dream Seer Feat : +2 bonus to resist mind 
affecting effects, except the nightmare spell 
where you have a + 4 bonus to save. May use 
the Sippery Mind rogue class feature once 
per day. You may also cast the Dream spell 
once per week as a spell-like ability. Pre- 
requisites: Oltec Human, or the feat Friend 
to an Oltec Tribe. 

If one of your PCs has the Church of the 
Whirling Fury affiliation, they can raise their 
score by searching for Noltus for at least two 
weeks. But this affiliation suggestion has no 
details or payoff for this effort. Should a 
player take this action, and you plan on 
introducing the NPC Jakara earlier (see 
Introducing the Totemic Demonslayer Earlier 
entry), you can slightly modify how the PCs 
meet Jakara. Instead of Jakara seeking them 
out, you can have the PC search for Noltus 
but find Jakara who gives them his 
information as a reward for their effort. Jakara 
will also journey with the PC back to Farshore 
in order to teach and spread the word on his 
tattoo magic. 



Table 3: Greyhawk to Mystaran Date Conversions 



Greyhawk Date 

6th of Wealsun 
24th of Wealsun 
7th of Richfest 
10th of Reaping 
22nd of Reaping 
5th of Goodmonth 
19th of Goodmonth 
15th of Harvester 
1st of Sunsebb 



Suggested Thyatian Date 

1st of Klarmont 
18th of Klarmont 
1st of Felmont 
10th of Felmont 
22nd of Felmont 
5th of Fyrmont 
19th of Fyrmont 
15th of Ambyrmont 
1st of Kaldmont 



Seasonal period 

Early Summer 
Early Summer 
Midsummer 
High Summer 
High Summer 
High Summer 
High Summer 
Early Fall 
Winter 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Savaqe "Cibe AOaptatioN 




Issue #353 

This issue provides a substantial number of 
upgrade options for the PC ship the Sea 
Wyvern. A number of these upgrades include 
extremely rare materials (such as adamantine) 
or potent magical enchantments. The latter 
will prove crucial in order to navigate the Sea 
Wyvern in the outer planes in the final 
adventures of the Savage Tide AP. 

To explain how these upgrades become 
available, have a few merchant ships visit 
Farshore including some merchant-princes 
from Minrothad. In addition or as a possible 
alternative, the local Thyatian ruler in the 
Thanegioth Archipelago may also visit at this 
time. Vivianna Romanones and her Crimson 
Guard 42 are aware of the PCs and their 



struggles against both the Crimson Fleet and 
the kopru. She offers some magic to the PCs 
while explaining the wisdom of accepting 
protection from the Empire of Thyatis. She 
would like to have Farshore willingly join 
Thyatis but won't make a direct offer for 
alliance unless she believes the PCs are 
amenable. 

Assuming they are not, she will provide access 
to some Thyatian naval magic in exchange 
for gold, but with no other obligations at this 
time. She continues to observe to see if the 
PCs can overcome the kopru, but will visit 
them once again in person to learn more from 
the PCs as soon as they realize the worldwide 
threat of the shadow pearls. 



42 

The NPC Vivianna and Crimson Guard are 
fan creations by James Ruhland. 



FROM 

'CHE VAUIXS 
OF PANDIUS 



A number of features in this issue of Threshold carry a 
"From the Vaults of Pandius" tagline. As one of our 
stated aims is "to promote the Vaults of Pandius and the 
material there", we hope you will enjoy these revised 
or extended treasures from that website. 



youR OPINIONS? 

The Editorial Team welcomes your feedback 
on this issue of THRESHOLD are welcomed. 
Please post your comments either by posting 
in The Piazza Forums 



Or by email to the Editorial address: 
Threshold . Mystara(5) gmail. com 

Please begin the subject line with the tag 
"[LETTER]" 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 





from Nations of the Spindrift Sea 

'CHE VAUIXS 

OF PANDIUS by John CaMn 



FOREWORD By THE 
AUTHOR: 

Eerie and alluring, the dark interior world of 
Matera that Sharon Dornhoff, Geoff Gander, 
and others, envisioned almost 15 years ago 
continues to fuel my imagination even to this 
day. In this issue of Threshold we will explore 
the Hollow Moon's largest ocean, the Great 
Spindrift Sea, and delve into the nations and 
cultures that live along its shores. 

LUNAR PROPERTIES 
(QETTINQ RE- 
ACQUAINTED) 

The Hollow Moon is a vast and strange setting, 
and many of its properties are quite alien 
when compared to a world like Mystara. This 
section will help readers become acquainted 
with all the bizarre characteristics of the moon 



that inhabitants of the interior of Matera take 
for granted. 

Cirpstal Fuactuues 

When the prehistoric comet crashed onto the 
surface of Matera, the impact was strong 
enough to fracture the entire Crystal 
Firmament. Although the most violent 
fractures - those large enough to allow 
voidships passage from space into the interior 
of Matera - are only located around the impact 
site at Mare Orientale, the fractures from the 
impact stretch across the moon's entire 
surface. These can be seen when the light 
from the sun shines on the Farside, and they 
have been used by Materans for eons to help 
tell the time. As the sunlight passes over 
specific areas of the Farside new fractures are 
illuminated while others fade away. Materans 
keep track of these fractures just as their 
counterparts on Mystara track the movements 
of constellations in the night sky. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 




Queat SpiNDuift Sea 

The Great Spindrift Sea lies directly in the 
center of Nearside and takes up a great 
portion of the Midlands. It is the largest body 
of water in the Hollow Moon and connects 
nations of the Midlands to the Northlands, 
Southlands, and Duskward Rimlands. 

Crystal Seabed 

Like most of the seas in the Hollow Moon, the 
Spindrift Sea's floor lies directly atop the 
crystal firmament. Portions of the seabed are 
covered in a layer of encrusted basalt. This 
layer, formed long ago after the great 
cometary impact at Mare Orientale, rises up 
from the sea to form the many islands that dot 
the Spindrift, and it is kept geologically active 
by the tidal forces of Mystara and Patera. The 
rest of the seabed is crystal - the same crystal 
that comprises the Firmament and the 
Crystalbarrens. 



Glacial Fringe 

Where the edge of the Spindrift Sea meets the 
unnatural cold of the crystalbarrens, the sea 
itself turns solid. Massive amounts of ice build 
up along this border creating a curving glacial 
wall that separates the sea from the crystal it 
sits upon. This icy layer usually ranges from 
10 to 30 miles, but is prevented from forming 
on the seabed itself due to the tremendous 
pressures of the water there. 

Fulldark 

Oddly enough, during Fulldark, when the sun 
lies directly beneath the Nearside and the 
Hollow Moon receives its least amount of 
light, is when the Spindrift Sea is the brightest. 
Sunlight filtering through the crystal seabed 
illuminates the sea from the bottom up. 

Circle Tides 

Circle Tides occur twice per Materan year, 
and cause the waters of the Spindrift Sea to 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 




all circulate in one direction for a period of 
three days. The first Circle Tide happens in 
the month of Itiukkin and spins the waters in 
a counter-clockwise motion, while the second 
Circle Tide in Itinissatu spins them in a 
clockwise motion. 

Sesliay-SeleNe 

Alignment: Lawful (OD&D); CG (AD&D) 

Sex: Female 

Race: Humpback whale 

Clerical Alignment: Any non-evil but LN 

Followers' Alignment: Any (placated by many 
evil lunar races) 

Symbol: A whale with a shiny crescent moon 
for her tail-flukes 

Interests: Materan 
weather, Materan seas, 
tides, whales, 
migration, natural and 
biological cycles 

Worshipped in: The 
Hollow Moon, all 
oceans 

Once a grey whale 
living in the oceans of Mystara, Seshay-Selene 
attained immortality after creating a new 
migrational culture for her people - the 
Unending Sojourn. Her intimate knowledge 
of tides, seasonality, and celestial workings 
made her the ideal candidate to run the 
Hollow Moon (after Ixion declined the 
honour, seeing little benefit in guiding a world 
with no sunlight). 

Many of the undersea races still worship her, 
though she is little known by the surface 
folk. . . at least on Mystara. Inside of Matera 




she has many names. To the Albheldri (and 
the Nithians before them) she is Nephthisi, 
Goddess of the Moon, while to the cryions of 
the Crystalbarrens she is known only as the 
Great Stormspume. Shark-kin of Crisium and 
Humorum call her Moonsinger, in the fashion 
of the long lost Aquarendi (which when 
translated into the elven tongue is Seshay- 
Selene). She has other names as well - most 
often related to silver, or moonlight, or 
singing, or to the endless crashing of the 
waves against the shore. 

MATERAN NATIVES 

Materan natives are not restricted by the Spell 
of Remembrance in the same way as natives 
of the Hollow World are by the Spell of 
Preservation. Although they will remember 
their culture and its proclivities, they are not 
bound by them, and thus it is much easier for 
DMs to run a group of native Materan PCs. 
New armor, weapons, or tools - all are fair 
game to native Materan PCs. 

Matera is not a humano-centric setting, and 
in fact humans are in a distinct minority (and 
at a distinct disadvantage inside of the dark 
world) . Luckily most races are fairly tolerant 
of the different species living around them. 
It is easy for adventurers from different 
cultures to join forces and work together. 

NeplitliisiaN QuibaNce 

As the "right hand" for Seshay-Seline, the 
Nephthisian priestesses hold a unique role in 
the Hollow Moon setting. Believing that they 
speak and act for their Immortal patroness - 
who they believe created and rules over the 
interior of Matera, they see it as their solemn 
duty to nurture and care for both the world, 
and the cultures living there. 




Oncg iN a Blue Moon 




Though based in Albheldri, Nephthisians have 
missionaries spread out across the Nearside, 
always striving to bring communities together 
in order to work towards Seshay-Selene's 
goals for their homeworld. As such they act 
as counselors and advisors, and it is not 
beyond them to gather like minded folk 
together to complete their assigned tasks. 
Thus adventurers are routinely employed the 
Nephthisians and may be true believers in 
their cause, patriots of their own nations, or 
simply mercenaries paid to do a job. 

SliaueD ENeMies 

Plots requiring multi-species cooperation in 
the Hollow Moon can be driven by enemies 
just as easily as they can be driven by some 
shared ally, such as the Nephthisians. Both 
the pteryx, and the Adhuzan Dominarchy 
(controlled by the kopru) can serve as some 
pretty spectacular enemies in the Midlands. 
The kopru are always trying to expand their 
territories and their influence, and once the 
pteryx begin to stir from their aeries in the 
Apennines, no one is safe. 

Not all antagonists in the Hollow Moon are 
mortal. Several evil Immortals have taken an 
interest in the Hollow Moon, including 
Thanatos and Demogorgon. Though typically 
in hiding, their servants are sprinkled 
throughout the interior of Matera, having 
infiltrated nearly every Hollow Moon culture 
to varying extents. Thanatos especially works 
towards the downfall of the cultures 
descended from Nithia (both Thebit in 
Adhuza, and the Nephthisians in Albheldri), 
while Demogorgon is obsessed with causing 
as much mayhem through the pteryx as 
possible. 



PlaiN OlD CJueeb 

Many cultures, including Adhuza, Albheldri, 
Aran, Cacklogallinia, Taurus, Vesper, and even 
the Trogs of Putrescence, are driven by a need 
to improve themselves. In many, this is 
expressed by explorers, merchants, and even 
adventurers. Such folk are driven to travel 
through vale and dell, across twisted and 
volcanic mountain ranges, and over every sea 
in the Hollow Moon. Explorers and 
merchants constantly seek out new routes to 
open up new trading possibilities, or to give 
them an advantage over their competitors. 
Vessels in the Hollow Moon traverse land, sea, 
and some even fly the skyways (the fabled 
silver ships of the Nephthisians and silk 
dirigibles of Aran) . Still, wherever goods and 
riches are transported, folk will have to defend 
themselves against the predations of pirates, 
bandits, and other brigands. 

Likewise adventurers are not unknown in 
these lands, for the Hollow Moon has a long 
and varied history, and though cultures persist 
thanks to the Spell of Remembrance, many 
nations have risen and fallen inside the moon. 
As such there are countless ruins scattered 
across the Nearside, waiting to be explored 
by those daring - or foolish - enough. 
Abandoned Adhuzan outposts, ancient 
stongholds of the once great troglodyte 
empire, even a handful of pteryx repositories 
lost to time. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 




HY)G Hollow Moon: HY)G SpiNbRift Sea 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 




NATIONS OF THE 
MIDLANDS 

The Spindrift Sea is the largest single body of 
water in the Hollow Moon, and its central 
location in the Midlands plays a key role in 
the politics and dynamics of the region. It 
connects the Midlands and Southlands to the 
Duskward Rimlands and the Northlands, and 
vessels from half a dozen different nations or 
more ply its waters. 

Two of the most powerful nations in the 
Hollow Moon lie along the shores of the 
Spindrift Sea, namely the Pteryx Apennines, 
and the Adhuzan Dominarchy, but even more 
distant nations like Taurus and Cacklogallinia 
have a presence here. 




AauDovai Rilles 

Arrival Date 

2200 BC. 

On the Outer World 

The aardovai developed in the Yazak Steppes 
region along the savage coast. Encroaching 
Oltecs, and later humanoids, drove them from 
their ancestral lands eastward toward the 
southern coast of Brun. The aggressive 
nations in that area (namely Intua and 
Taymora) easily dominated the primitive 
lupins and eventually drove them to 
extinction, though pockets may have survived 
in Sind and Hule until about 1000 BC. 

In the Hollow Moon 

Aardovai territory is located on the broken 
marshy promontories of "the Rilles" that juts 
out into the southern Spindrift Sea. A narrow 
strip of land connects the Rilles to the elven 
Vesperlands of the southeast. The Sukate Fen 
dominates the central and eastern Rilles, while 
the Spaasuka Bog covers most of the western 
territory. 

Culture 

A small, primitive, lupin breed similar to 
modern hunter and vermin hunter breeds, 
the aardovai are nomadic. All aardovai in the 
region are organized into four major clans, 
the Mnisukai, Wiyakai, Ainilai, and Tokai, each 
of which controls roughly a quarter of the 
Rilles. All of the tribes share a common 
heritage and culture, including a belief in 
Lakoahnu - a many legged, insectile, god who 
dwells in the heart of Mount Sotepeta and 
watches over their lands, taking care of their 
people. Among other things, Lakoahnu 
blesses the highly ritualized giant termite 



Aardovai Warrior 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 




hunts, upon which the aardovai rely for much 
of their resources and sustenance. 

Though all aardovai worship Lakoahnu and 
hunt the giant termites of the region, that is 
where their similarities end. The Mnisukai, 
who dwell along the eastern shores of the 
Rilles, are the most sedentary and maintain a 
permanent settlement all year round. From 
there the Mnisukai patrol their territory in 
leather canoes and occasionally conduct trade 
with visiting gnomish steamships. The 
Wiyakai, in the south, are the most receptive 
to outsiders and often deal with elven hunters 
and trappers from Vesper. Most distant and 
isolated are the Ainilai, though they are not 
as hostile toward outsiders as the Tokai. Of 
all the tribes, the war-like Tokai are feared the 
most. They have been known to attack 
unwary seafarers, Vesper elves, and even 
neighboring aardovai tribes. 

Fire Times 

During Fire Times, the aardovai tribes gather 
into larger semi-permanent settlements, while 
the most courageous warriors brave the wilds 
to hunt fledgling termite queens on their 
maiden flights. It is also during these times 
that trade is conducted with outsiders - mostly 
Vesper elves and steamship traveling gnomes 
from as far away as the Tauran Mounts. 

Adventure Ideas 

 Times have been hard for the Mnisukai 
tribe, and its larders are nearly empty. As 
the next Fire Time approaches, it is 
obvious that something is wrong with the 
giant termites of the area. None of the 
nests are preparing for the flight of the 
new queens. Unless the PCs can 
determine the cause of the termite's plight 
and remove it, the tribe will surely starve. 



 Aardovai families have been flocking to 
the call of the strange white fox known as 
Ghost Sister, who lives near the ruins of 
Taakaglesk. Ghost Sister warns that the 
spirits of the troglodytes who once ruled 
this land are becoming unrestful, and will 
soon lead forth an undead army to 
slaughter the four tribes. The PCs must 
brave the dangers of the ruins in order to 
stop this foul plot. 

 The Tokai are being driven into a 
murderous frenzy by some unknown 
power. Once their bloodlust peaks, they 
will descend upon the other tribes in 
slaughter. All signs point to something 
foul in their native hunting grounds of 
Yupemni Kaska that is feeding their 
madness. Can the PCs discover this 
mystery and put a stop to it before the 
aardovai fall into war? 

AbtjuzaN Dominions 



The Adhuzan Dominarchy is intended to be 
one of the major antagonists of the Hollow 
Moon setting. It is a monolithic nation 
composed of many dominated cultures, and 
it is the intention of the author to revisit 
this land in more detail in the future with 
a dedicated article. 



Arrival Date 

1800 BC to 950 BC. 

On the Outer World 

The Adhuzan Dominarchy has had many 
incarnations on Mystara dating back to before 
the rise of Blackmoor. Its last incarnation was 
on Vulcania where the kopru brought 
together satrapies consisting of merfolk, 
dwarves, minotaurs, and humans from various 
cultures. When the satrapies began to 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 





Adhuzan Montage 

destabilize (due in equal parts to natural 
disasters and foreign attacks), the immortals 
rushed to save their unique culture. Various 
immortals have added other dominated 
cultures to the Hollow Moon over the 
centuries since then. 

In the Hollow Moon 

Adhuza stretches from the Spindrift Sea, home 
of the Twaal merfolk, to the Straight Wall of 
Thebit. The Aiwadrazuh mountain range runs 
that entire length, supporting several human 
populations along its base. Beneath its surface 
are heated lakes of water and lava, and the 
secret domain of the kopru who rule this land. 
To the west they are bordered by the 
Crystalbarrens of the Cryions, to the east by 
the elven Vesperlands and the hin of 
Shaergarde, and to the south by Cynidicea 
and Toroldorsk. 

Culture 

Twaal merfolk form the backbone of the 
empire. Their territory stretches across the 
western half of the Spindrift Sea and they are 



connected to the 
dominions of the 
Midlands through 
man made canals and 
secret underground 
waterways. Just 
beneath the Twaal in 
the social pecking 
order of the empire 
are the men of Limor 
and Vareinya. They 
serve as merchants 
and ambassadors to 
the rest of the world, 
as well as forming the 
majority of the 
Adhuzan military. In 
the south, descendants of Nithia, and the 
inheritors of that nation's once mighty magical 
legacy, pursue the arcane arts in Thebit. 

Other races have also been brought into the 
fold. The satrapy of Kogalor is the homeland 
of dwarven craftsmen and artisans, whose 
fabled forges draw their power directly from 
the molten magma beneath the Aiwadrazuh 
mountains. The city state of Labrys is the 
home of minotaurs, many of which serve as 
elite shock troops and elite martial forces in 
the Adhuzan military, Ore slaves are also 
common throughout the Dominarchy's 
territory, their spirit and savagery long ago 
ground down by their masters. 

Beneath the facade of it all lie the kopru, who 
control their puppet states from hidden 
thermal pools that are common along the 
Aiwadrazuh range. Masters at what they do, 
the kopru use subterfuge and manipulation 
more often than not to command their 
subjects, though outright mental domination 
is employed when necessary (the kopru use 
strategically placed colossal statues to help 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 




boost their mental powers across their 
territory). Their subjects have been 
engineered over the centuries to be more 
susceptible to the kopru's powers, and in fact 
many of the human figurehead-rulers even 
have a merfolk ancestor - much like the Queen 
of Aquas on Mystara does. 

Fire Times 

Fire Times are mild in Adhuza, because many 
of the underground volcanic vents are 
controlled (and manipulated) by the kopru. 
They still need to vent some of the volcanic 
power, but they can shunt activity to areas of 
their territory that are less populated. 
Alternatively they can also use it to punish 
populations that have displeased them (or 
somehow managed to break free of their 
control). 

Mount Ammonius is the exception to this rule, 
and belches forth poisonous gasses on an 
annual basis that can drift over large swaths 
of land. Although its active period is well 
known, now one ever quite knows where the 
winds will carry its poison. Mount 
Flammarion, in the north, doesn't erupt quite 
as often (once every two years), but it sends 
gouts of fire and flaming rock into the air 
which often fall in Labrys, but have been 
known to reach faraway Vareinya and Limor. 

Adventure Ideas 

 A small band of Vesper elves has 
infiltrated Thebit, and are planning to 
destroy the Straight Wall. Should they 
succeed, the massing hordes of cryions 
prowling around on the nearby 
crystalbarrens will swoop in to pillage 
and plunder the ancient city of Thebit. 

 The statue of Adhuza-M'Thaz in Labrys 
has been desecrated by dissidents. The 



PCs must brave the maze-like wastelands 
of Labrys to remove the rebels, and find 
and repair the statue (lest the kopru lose 
much of their control over the 
surrounding minotaur population. 
Alternatively, the PCs may have been sent 
to destroy the statue, in which case they 
must defeat forces loyal to the kopru in 
order to carry out their mission. 

 Strange fumes have begun seeping out 
from the Plains of Ammonium. Though 
not quite deadly, the gases do induce a 
semi-catatonic state in those breathing 
them, resulting in entire populations who 
exhibit mind numbing, zombie-like traits. 
The fumes are in fact caused by the kopru 
deep in the heart of the Aiwadrazuh 
Range, who are experimenting with ways 
to make their populations more pliable 
and easy to dominate. The PCs must 
journey to the heart of kopru lands and 
assault their underground stronghold 
before the kopru can succeed in their 
plot. 

AlblielDui islaNDs 

Arrival Date 

691 BC 

On the Outer World 

The Albheldri culture is actually a combination 
of two outer world cultures, the Nephthisian 
priestesses (who were an ancient religious 
sect in Nithia) and the Albharendi albinoes of 
the Ierendi Islands. Allies of a sort on the 
outer world, it was the Albharendi who 
granted the Nephthisians sanctuary on their 
islands when the sect was being persecuted 
by the ascending priesthood of Rathenos. 
During the last years of Nithia, once it had 
fallen completely under the corruption of 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 





Nephthisian Priestess 



Thanatos, the priestesses and their allies were 
once again persecuted. Following the 
proscriptions of their Immortal patroness, the 
Nephthisians build ships that could sail the 
dark Void in the sky and fled to the moon. 
While not all the Albharendi could flee with 
them, several populations were taken up by 
the immortals and deposited in the new 
homeland inside of Matera. 

In the Hollow Moon 

Although the arrival of the Vareinyans and 
Limorans of Adhuza preceded the Albheldri, 
the albinos and their allies had one distinct 
advantage over their human cousins - their 
eyesight was already adapted to living in the 
dark. Because of this the Albheldri spread 
across the Nearside, and have since integrated 
themselves into many of the nearby cultures 
as counselors and advisors. Taurus gnomes, 



aardovai of the Rilles, hin of Shaergarde, and 
others all welcome council from itinerant 
Nephthisian priestesses. 

The Haemus Islands remain the power base 
for the Albheldri culture, and the center of 
their population on Nearside. Their 
shipwrights are known throughout the 
Midlands, and merchants and traders from 
Albheldri ply the waters from the Spindrift 
Sea to Mare Tranquillitatis and further 
Duskward. 

Culture 

Albheldri culture is the amalgamation of two 
Mystaran cultures - Nephthisian cultists from 
ancient Nithia, and albino Albarendi mystics 
of Ierendi. Deeply spiritual, the Albheldri 
people live their lives in the service of 
Seshay-Seline. The Haemus Islands afford 
the Albheldri relative protection from foreign 
aggressors and allow the populace to live and 
practice their religious beliefs in peace. 

Master shipbuilders, the Albheldri are also 
well known for their mysticism, and there are 
several mystical orders scattered throughout 
the islands. Most of these fall under the 
auspices of the Order of the Moon, which was 
established in ancient times on Mystara as a 
way of controlling those infected by 
Taymoran lycanthropy. The founders of the 
Order were able to regulate lycanthropy by 
tying its magical effects to the phases of the 
moon, and through training and magical 
items were able to give those afflicted by 
lycanthropy some modicum of control over 
their lives. Today in Albheldri lycanthropes 
are considered blessed by Nephthisi, and the 
Order of the Moon sends its mystical 
shapeshifters across the Nearside to further 
the goals of their immortal patroness. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 




BY JQH^ Gfll-MN 2009 





0/ A 

^ iff- ^ 





^ < 
'* 4 i 



gPBCta, TttflNKS TO 
gfMRQN pQRl^HQfT TOR 

psimi.QPtyq the Hollow 

M0O*( gBTTtHq 4(p TO 
THQR-rtWN TJT TOR 
, PRQrtpIHGj US tCtTK TffiBSB 



Although spiritual life is dominated by 
Nephthisi, other immortals also hold sway in 
Albheldri culture. Bastet, Maat, and even 
Pflarr, have devotees throughout the islands 
and beyond. Many Nithian immortals also 
have pocket followings, though not all of them 
are welcome. The Cult of Rathanos is frowned 
upon by the dominant Nephthisians because 
of their patriarchal chauvinism and active 
plotting to bring down the followers of 
Nephthisi. 



Fire Times 

Fire times happen fairly infrequently in 
Albheldri, although when they do occur they 
can be extremely violent. Mount Djedwesh 
erupts once every 50 years, causing the 
populations of Nephtet, Tetis, and Pharis to 
evacuate. Most move to the southeastern 
shores of the island and to Albarend and 
Shemew islands just before the event, leaving 
those three cities as virtual ghost towns for a 
full lunar month. 

Mount Awiaped erupts once every year, but 
its effects are very minor. A small, steady 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Oncg in a Blue Moon 




plume of ash and gas seep from the 
mountaintop, and thin rivulets of magma pour 
into the surrounding sea. These times are 
sacred for the Cult of Rathanos, who use them 
to meet in secret inside the heart of the volcano. 

Adventure Ideas 

 The Cult of Rathanos has discovered a 
means to control some of the volcanic 
vents connecting Mount Awiaped to the 
Pteryx Apennines and is planning to use 
that power to destroy a pteryx city. The 
Cult of Rathanos plans to seize control 
after the pteryx destroy the entrenched 
Nephthisian theocracy. Unfortunately for 
the cult, should they actually succeed, 
there may be very little left for them to 
take control of. 

 An ancient Taymoran artifact resurfaces 
in the mystic fortress of Menra, causing 
all lycanthropes in the area to lose control 
of their shapeshifting abilities and mental 
faculties. The Order of the Moon is 
sending a band of adventurers to find and 
destroy the artifact before its members 
lose all control and a new lycanthropic 
curse is unleashed upon the islands. 

 The Immortal Nephthises (Seshay-Seline) 
has been sending dreams to her 
priestesses telling them to once again sail 
the stars. Adventurers are gathered 
together to explore the caverns beneath 
Hetese, where the fabled silver ship, 
Moonlight, awaits rediscovery. Once freed 
from its current guardians, the ship and 
its crew will be tasked with taking 
Nephthises' word throughout the Hollow 
Moon and possibly beyond. 



Devilfish 

Arrival Date 

1650 BC 

On the Outer World 

The devilfish were undersea nomads that 
migrated across the seas of Mystara raiding 
and pillaging the tritons, merrow, and other 
races that lived there. Shortly after the fall of 
Taymora, the devilfish became infected by a 
strain of undersea vampirism which spread 
through their culture like wildfire. To 
preserve their original culture, a small group 
was moved into the Hollow Moon before they 
could become infected. 

In the Hollow Moon 

The devilfish thrive in the waters of Mare 
Vaporum, where the floor of the Spindrift Sea 
is covered by basalt runoff from Albheldri and 
the Pteryx Apennines, and very little light 
shines through from the crystal bedrock, even 
during Fulldark. 

Culture 

Nomadic raiders, devilfish culture is cyclic, 
and based around times of feast and famine. 
During most of the lunar year, the warm 
waters of Mare Vaporum team with life, and 
devilfish raiding parties are content to remain 
within to hunt. During this time their 
numbers increase, rising to a point that is 
almost unsupportable. When the Circle Tides 
come (in the months of Itiukkin and Itinissatu 
respectively), devilfish society is thrown into 
chaos. Tidal forces caused by Mystara and 
Patera cause the waters of the Spindrift Sea 
to rotate, siphoning the warmer waters out 
of Mare Vaporum and jetting them around 
the sea. Though the Circle Tides last for only 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 





Devilfish 



three days, their effects on the region last for 
much longer. 

During these times, swarms of starving 
devilfish make a mass exodus from their 
traditional hunting grounds, and begin to raid 
and pillage across the entire Spindrift Sea. 
Both undersea dwellers and surface going 
ships are at risk from the ravenous locust-like 
hordes of devilfish, but such activities take a 
toll on their numbers as well. Within a month, 
devilfish populations are greatly reduced 
(either through starvation or violence) and 
when they return back to Mare Vaporum their 
numbers are much more sustainable. 

Though savage and unpredictable, smaller 
devilfish communities can be reasoned with 
on occasion. Small kelp farming villages on 
the outskirts of Twaal controlled waters will 
often send tributes to local devilfish tribes in 



return for being overlooked during their 
depredations, but sometimes more sinister 
pacts are made with the creatures. A handful 
of pirates operating in the Spindrift Sea strike 
bargains with the devilfish, who will track 
merchant vessels and even help bring them 
down - the pirates take the plunder and the 
devilfish take the vanquished crews. 

Fire Times 

Though relatively mild in this region, activity 
from undersea vents and volcanic runoff from 
the Apennines increases two to three fold 
once every twenty years. Such an influx of 
heat sends the local ecologies, including the 
devilfish, into overdrive. During these years 
the devilfish populations can become so 
bloated that they nearly turn the Spindrift Sea 
black when making their exodus on the Circle 
Tides. Afterwards, the waters of the Spindrift 
Sea choke on the toxicity of dead devilfish 
corpses, crashing neighboring fishing 
societies and causing widespread famine both 
under the sea and above it. 

Adventure Ideas 

 PCs are stranded on a small island 
during circle tide and the devilfish 
swarm the waters around them. A 
shipwrecked boat on a nearby island 
may be their only means of escape, but 
in order to access it the PCs must figure 
out a way to cross the devilfish infested 
waters to reach it. 

 A small village of Twaal kelp farmers has 
been suffering the depredations of local 
devilfish for decades now, and they fear 
their village will be overrun as the 20 
year cycle of the Fire Times approaches 
and devilfish populations explode. The 
PCs are asked to help the Twaal defend 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Oncg in a Blue Moon 




their village, and must prepare to survive 
an assault from overwhelming numbers. 

 Mauro pirates have been attacking and 
sinking Nephthisian merchant ships for 
several months, and the priestesses 
believe they are receiving help from a 
local tribe of devilfish. The PCs are tasked 
with finding the pirates and their allies, 
and putting a stop to them. The savage 
tribe of devilfish are actually worshippers 
of Thanatos, and are gathering surface 
dwellers for use in a sacrifice that will 
create a new breed of vampiric devilfish. 
If they are not stopped, such an undead 
plague could destroy all life in the 
Spindrift Sea. 

MauRo Isles 



Errata: In Threshold Issue #2, the Hollow 
Moon timeline states that the Mauro 
rakasta are placed in the Hollow Moon in 
BC 400. This is actually in error. Myoshima 
is founded on Patera in BC 400, but it is 
not until 800 years later, in AC 400 (when 
Myoshima is finally united under a single 
leader), that rakasta are placed on the 
Mauro Isles inside of Matera. 



Arrival Date 

400 AC 

On the Outer World 

Rakasta fleeing from Mystara in BC 400 
established the city of Mara on Patera. The 
banished rakasta spent the next few centuries 
dominating their new homeland, conquering 
tribes of primitive rakasta and creating a 
kingdom of feudal lords throughout the 
Myoshima Islands. In AC 300 civil war breaks 



out among the Myoshimans as various 
daimyos attempted to unite all of the feudal 
lords under one ruler. After a century of 
fighting, Daimyo Hirameki succeeded in 
uniting all of the warring clans, but not before 
several are whisked away to the Hollow Moon 
by the immortals. 

In the Hollow Moon 

Being very similar to the Myoshima Islands 
on Patera, the rakasta clans placed here took 
little time to subjugate the territory. The 
Mauro Islands consist of several ancient 
craters and caldera strung together in the 
western Spindrift Sea. The three major 
populations are centered on the islands of 
Hyoto in the north, and Shimtora and 
Raitochi in the south. The central crater 
chains are more sparsely populated, although 
their waters are shallow and support a wide 
variety of fish. The soil on these islands also 
tends to be more fertile, though the dangers 
of the Fire Times in these areas is greater as 
well. 

Culture 

The Mauro rakasta are primarily fishermen, 
and ply their trade from a flotilla of ships as 
well as along the shores of their country. 
Many villages lie along the coast, and are 
composed of wooden stilt houses designed 
to weather circle tides that raise the sea levels 
twice a year. 

All rakasta in Mauro, regardless of their 
station, owe fealty to one of the great daimyos 
of the land. The three most powerful are 
Anori, Kageoku, and Taniokura, all of whom 
employ sizable military forces led by powerful 
samurai, warriors with braided fur and 
tattooed pelts. Samurai warriors are the only 
rakasta in Mauro that are allowed to bear iron 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 




weapons - for others owning such tools is little 
more than a death sentence. 

Shamans and oracles are abundant in the 
country, and are often sought after to provide 
advice on every aspect of daily life, from where 
to fish, when to harvest crops, and even when 
to make war upon a neighbor. Mauro rakasta 
are fond of stories, especially those related to 
their ancestors, and take great pride in crafting 
songs and ballads that can last for hours on 
end. Though aware of the greater world, most 
pay it little heed, being focused instead on 
their family, their honour, and their lord. Even 
the daimyos, more intent on fighting one 
another than any outside force, largely ignore 
the nations surrounding them - though on 
occasion one or more of them has sent tributes 
to Adhuza to curry favors or buy support for 
local conquests. 

Fire Times 

Most of the Mauro Islands sport some number 
of craters and calderas, many of which are 
active throughout the year. Because of this, 
and because there are very few real volcanoes 
in the Spindrift Sea (relative to the rest of 
Nearside), Fire Times tend to be mild in these 
lands. The one exception is along the rim of 
Baningu Kureta, which sports several live 
volcanoes. These spit out gouts of ash on a 
regular basis throughout the year, but once 
every 20 years more violent eruptions throw 
chunks of burning basalt into the sky. 

Adventure Ideas 

 Rumblings along the Baningu Kureta 
during the latest Fire Times have 
awakened evil spirits deep in the earth. 
Filled with bloodlust, and a seething 
hatred for the living, these spirits wage a 
campaign of terror against the villagers 
and fishermen of Hyoto. The PCs must 



brave the treacherous terrain and 
poisonous vapors of the great crater to 
find the spirit's lair and destroy them 
before entire villages are carried off to 
be devoured. 

Diamyo Taniokura has claimed the title 
of shogun, and is amassing a large army 
of samurai to attach his neighbors. 
Several villages have already fallen prey 
to his forces and soon the other major 
clans will be forced into an alliance to 
stop him. Unfortunately the shogun has 
sold his honour to Adhuza, and is little 
more than a kopru puppet. The PCs are 
sent to discover from where the 
shogun's newfound power issues and 
to put a stop to it before all of Mauro 
falls to war. 

The court of Daimyo Anori is thrown 
into turmoil after a stranger is found 
washed up upon the shores. After 
nursing the stranger back to health, 
Daimyo Anori gives him the run of his 
palace and then promptly secludes 
himself behind closed doors while his 
sons bicker and fight for the aging 
rakasta's title. When the PCs determine 
that the stranger, a mordigswerg dwarf, 
is behind the entire fiasco, they must put 
an end to his treachery before the entire 
island falls to infighting. 



Mausli of PutuesceNce 



Marsh of Putrescence troglodytes are one 
of the few Hollow Moon cultures originally 
detailed by Sharon Dornhoff and Geoff 
Gander, and as such there is a plethora of 
information that can be found on the nation 
already in the Vaults of Pandius. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 




Arrival Date 

Mystaran Origin: First wave - Brasol Range of 
Davania, c. 12,500 BC (Shovelfaces); Second 
wave - Northwestern Davanian plains, c. 7,000 
BC (Longlegs) 

On the Outer World 

Two distinct troglodyte cultures were moved 
from the outer world to the inside of Matera, 
on two different occasions. The Shovelfaces 
lived in the Brasol Range of Davania, allies of 
the pteryx in the war against the carnifex, and 
were transported to Matera along with the 
other defenders of Attyx just before that last 
bastion of freedom fell. 

Longlegs troglodytes were transported to the 
Hollow Moon later. They lived in the 
northwestern plains of Davania and served the 
dreaded Y'Hog carnifex, albeit unwillingly. As 
Y'Hog was pressed by enemies on all sides and 
ready to fall, the Longlegs rebelled. 
Unfortunately for them the enemies of Y'Hog 
made little distinction between the carnifex 
and their servitors (even those who no longer 
served the carnifex) and rather than let these 
courageous creatures be destroyed the 
Immortals moved them to Matera. 

In the Hollow Moon 

A fitting home for the troglodytes, the Marsh 
of Putrescence stretches outward from the 
Pteryx Apennines and into the crystalbarrens 
of Mare Imbrium, with a small stretch of beach 
bordering the northern coast of the Spindrift 
Sea. Shovelface clans dominate the marsh's 
interior, running along the massive cliff face 
bordering the towering Apennines to the east. 
Later arrivals, the Longlegs created abodes 
along the outskirts of the marsh, bordering 
both the crystalbarrens and the Spindrift Sea. 



Culture 

Troglodyte culture is far from monolithic, or 
peaceful, as the two troglodyte species living 
in the area do not get along. The older of 
the two species, the Shovelfaces, believe that 
it was the pteryx who saved them from the 
carnifex and brought them to the Hollow 
Moon to escape destruction. They share their 
former allies' disdain for non-reptilian races, 
and in general distrust strangers. Few 
outsiders (even other troglodytes) are ever 
allowed within their territory, and they will 
meet any uninvited guests with suspicion and 
violence. 

Longlegs troglodytes are far more open to 
outsiders, and are in fact who most Materans 
think of when troglodytes are mentioned. 
Merchant vessels ply the waters of the 
Spindrift Sea to do trade with Longlegs along 
the coast of the Marsh, and anyone wishing 
to traverse the length of the swamp (to gain 
access to northern lands) do so under their 
auspices. 

Little known to most outsiders, there is yet a 
third population of troglodytes living within 
the confines of the Marsh of Putrescence. 
Mixed bloods form a buffer zone between the 
Shovelfaces and the Longlegs. Though every 
bit as isolationist as their Shovelfaced kin, 
these mixed bloods are more apt to warn off 
intruders rather that attacking them outright. 

Fire Times 

The Blue Smokies, the marsh's two semi- 
active volcanoes belch forth a deep blue- 
tinted vapour during Fire Times, causing 
nearby ground to become soggy and un- 
farmable. Hot-springs and noxious sulphur- 
tainted geysers also become more active 
during these times, and many trogs in the 
area (mainly Longlegs) must either live on 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Oncg iN a Blue Moon 




stores stockpiled throughout the rest of the 
year or migrate southwest along the border of 
the crystalbarrens. 

Adventure Ideas 

A caravan of merchants from the Spindrift Sea 
has hired the PCs to act as guards and guides 
through the Marsh of Putrescence. Men from 
Thebit to the south have heard of the fabled 
works of the Mordrigswerg and have brought 
crates of spices and precious metals to trade 
with the dwarves. The PCs must protect them 
from the perils of the crystalbarrens as well as 
from the Shovelface clans that block their route. 

Troglodyte kingdoms once spanned the 
majority of Nearside, and there are still those 
among the Longlegs that wish to reclaim that 
former glory. The PCs are tasked with 
journeying to the fabled ruins of Attyx and 
retrieve artifacts that could be used to unite 
the clans... and from there to conquer the 
nations around the Spindrift Sea. 

A blood feud has broken out among two 
families of neighboring Shovelfaces, and 
threatens to expand to allied clans. What 
started as an argument over who brewed the 
best bur-reed moonshine has quickly devolved 
into an all-out war. PCs need to brave the 
Marsh's interior and find a way to stop the 
feud, but may be in over their heads. 

VespGR 

Arrival Date 

1400 BC 

On the Outer World 

Elves living near the vicinity of Glantri have 
had a dark and perilous past, being driven 
beneath the ground on at least two separate 
occasions - first after the Great Rain of Fire, 




Vesper Elf 



and again after an ancient Blackmoorian 
artifact was detonated circa BC 1700. One 
group of Schattenalfen, having rejected the 
enticements of Atzanteotl, finally achieved 
their dreams of living on the surface. Small 
numbers, and increasing attacks from 
humanoids (mostly influenced by Atzanteotl), 
doom the elves to extinction on Mystara. 

In the Hollow Moon 

Vesper elves are most densely populated 
along the shores of Sinus Medii, but their 
territory stretches from Mare Vaporum 
bordering the Albheldri Isle in the north, all 
the way to the Hypparq Sea in the southwest. 
The northern lands hold some of the largest 
grass plains in the Hollow Moon, and are 
separated from the rest of Vesper by the Rima 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Oncg in a Blue Moon 




Ariadys, a vast gorge running east to west 
across the entire Vesper Peninsula. 

Moving south, the grasslands turn to 
coniferous forests, which in turn become vast 
swaths of giant fungal forests along the coasts 
of Sinus Medii. The center of Vesper is 
dominated by the Rhanqal Mountain Range 
that stretches from the shores of Sinus Medii 
to the Hypparq Sea, and holds a myriad of cold 
and crystal clear lakes amongst its many dells 
and valleys. 

Culture 

The Vesper elves are organized into several 
different city states throughout their territory, 
each controlled by one or more ancestral clans. 
City states are very competitive with one 
another, especially those situated along the 
Sinus Medii. Rivalry amongst the states can 
become very heated, and even on occasion 
lead to outright war, though all of Vesper is 
quick to band together when facing outside 
threats. 

Though each of the city states have their own 
rulers and customs, one common factor binds 
all the elves in Vesper together - the relic- 
keepers. Gifted to the elves upon their 
placement into the Hollow Moon, their relic 
is called the Prism of All Colors, and is located 
deep within the sacred temple of Angkar. The 
Prism's magic affords the keepers the power 
to see things as they truly are - a rare gift for 
those living within the dark confines of the 
Matera's interior. Such powers are also 
especially beneficial for a people living so close 
to the Adhuzan Dominarchy, for it allows the 
keepers to see who has been dominated by 
the kopru. 



Fire Times 

Most elven cities in Vesper are built far 
enough away from the active volcanoes in the 
region as to not be affected by the Fire Times. 
Mount Kodyn erupts once every five years, 
sending a great plume of ash over the shores 
of the Spindrift Sea. The Caldera Horrocks, 
near the Temple of Angkar on the shores of 
the Hypparq, erupts once every 157 years. 
The devastation it causes is enormous, but 
the elven relic-keepers at Angkar use their 
clan relic to protect the ancient temple from 
destruction. 

Adventure Ideas 

 Monsters have once again begun to creep 
out of the Valley of Horrors, and the PCs 
are sent to investigate. A new Cult of 
Atzanteotl has formed around the Great 
Flying Viper, a half-dragon, half-viper, that 
is gathering minions and preparing to 
attack the fortress of Hyccal. 

 Vareinyan pirates haunt the Hypparq Sea, 
raiding and pillaging villages along 
Vesper's territory. When the PCs are sent 
to stop the attacks, they find that the 
pirates have an unexpected ally - the Nixie 
Queen has secretly dominated them and 
is using them to gather all the elven males 
in the area. 

 The relic-keepers have discovered a kopru 
plot in the very heart of Angkar, and task 
the PCs with rooting out those corrupted 
by the creatures. Three kopru puppets, 
hand-picked and slowly dominated over 
the last few hundred years (so as to not 
be detected by the Prism's powers), are 
now close enough to the Prism of All 
Colors to poison it permanently. Should 
they succeed, the Prism will no longer be 
able to protect Vesper from the mind 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Oncg in a Blue Moon 
mm 




it S3 



dominating powers of the kopru, and city 
by city, the elves will fall. PCs must 
uncover the conspirators and stop them. . . 
but who can they trust? 

REFERENCES 

Hollow Moon Planetology: Blue Moon - Seas 
& Tides , by Sharon Dornhoff 

Hollow Moon Planetology: Blue Moon - 
Emergence , by Sharon Dornhoff 

The Spell of Remembrance: Recursive history , 
by Sharon Dornhoff 

Hollow Moon Planetology: Blue Moon - 
Animal Life , by Sharon Dornhoff 

Hollow Moon Introduction: "Freiburg, der 
Adler hat gelandet..." , by Sharon Dornhoff 

Hollow Moon Cultures: The Marsh of 
Putrescence (troglodytes) , by Sharon Dornhoff 
and Geoff Gander 

Materan Spells , by Sharon Dornhoff 

Hollow Moon] Ruminations Over a Blue 
Moon, Discussion at The Piazza 

Hollow Moon Planetology: Blue Moon - 
Timekeeping , by Sharon Dornhoff 

Hollow Moon Exploration: A Brief History of 
Space (Travel) , by Sharon Dornhoff 

Hollow Moon Planetology: Blue Moon , by 
Sharon Dornhoff 



Hollow Moon Planetology: Blue Moon - 
Eclipses , by Sharon Dornhoff 

Hollow Moon Magic: Altered Spells , by 
Sharon Dornhoff 

Monsters' Abilities and the SoR , by Sharon 
Dornhoff 

Hollow Moon Exploration: An Outer Moon 
timeline (continued) , by Sharon Dornhoff 

Map of the Aardovai Rilles , by John Calvin 

Map of Albheldri Islands , by John Calvin 

Map of Adhuza , by John Calvin 

Map of Vesperlands , by John Calvin 

Map of The Marsh of Putrescence , by John 
Calvin and Geoff Gander 

Map of Mauro , by John Calvin 

Varellyan Timeline , by Geoff Gander 

Alternate setting for Ierendi v2.0 , by Sharon 
Dornhoff 

History of the Lupins , by Giampaolo Agosta 
Patera Timeline , by Andrew Theisen 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"Ci7e Lowen RuiNS of Kotesh 




City of the Oqne king, pan 
the Lowet* fciuns of kotes 



Secrets ofkoskatep, Le 





by Francesco Defferrari (Sturm) 



This level can be reached only by going down 
from room 3 of Level 2 B (the former Akropolis 
of Kotesh and later temple of Ixion, in Issue 3 
of Threshold magazine). PC's will find 
themselves in Level 2 A, Ancient Kotesh: 

Random Critters table and Wandering 
Parties table of the level above still apply here. 
On a roll of 1 on ld6, roll ld20 on the Random 
Critters Table. There is also a 1% chance on 
Id 100 in each room that a Wandering Party 
will be encountered. 

This city was inhabited by ogres, giants and 
followers of Nyx, humans and otherwise, for 
7 centuries from 603 BC to 95 AC. Its layout 
is very particular as it had no streets: 

Dark green areas were once courts and other 
spaces open to the sky, i.e below roof level, 
while part of the life of the city took place over 
the roofs of the houses (depicted below in 
white). The wooden stairs once connecting 
the roofs with the courts have collapsed long 
ago. The courts are mostly buried by earth and 
debris and therefore impassable, or mostly so. 



White areas are the houses of the ancient 
city, that normally only had access from the 
rooftops, except for areas 2 and 3, that were 
under the Akropolis (Level 2 B) and therefore 
had doors. They were sliding stone slabs 
doors, so could be difficult to spot (1-2 on 
ld6) and many are jammed, so are depicted 
in the map as secret doors. 

As the city is now buried under level 1, many 
houses obviously no longer have access from 
the roofs. There are however, several passage 
between the houses that didn't existed in the 
original city: they were created during the 
battle between ogres and Ixion's followers, 
usually by clerical or wizardly magic, so they 
are no door but only rubble from fallen and 
broken walls. White areas are the ones whose 
walls were broken, so can easily be accessed. 

Light green areas are a particular case: these 
are the houses that, like the white ones, had 
access from the roof, but lost it when The 
Last One buried the city in 227AC. Their walls 
however were not broken down when the 
Followers of Ixion conquered the city, and 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



many were only partially sacked or left exactly 
as the ogres and giants had abandoned them, 
so if PC's are somehow able to break into 
these houses they will find the original 
objects of 8 centuries ago (if humans reused 
the house) or even of 1000 years ago (if they 



were abandoned by the ogres or giants and 
never used again by the humans). Random 
critters could still have found a way to enter 
any of these rooms (1 on ld6 as above), as 
well as Wandering Parties. 



x>skatep 
.evel 2a 



COWER NOW 

3N tt>e outside 



passage csoiN 

DOWN 




FORMER 

(sate 



City is 500 Metetts ion<s 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"CI7G Lowen Ruins of Kotesl? 




1 - The North East tower. A fireball was thrown 
inside the tower during the battle between the ogres 
and Ixion's followers. The remains of the five ogre 
warriors that died here were never removed. The 
Last One has animated them as zombies, waiting 
for intruders to enter. 

The Last One will send the zombies against the 
Darkers and they'll defeat them, and give the 
weapons to their ogre allies. The tower will remain 
empty until extensive reparations of Level 2 can be 
started, which could take some years, after which it 
is probably used as a storeroom. 

2 - The Under Palace. This area was underground 
even before the landslide that buried ancient Kotesh, 
as it was under the Acropolis with the Ogre King's 
palace. It housed mostly kitchens, storerooms and 
servants quarters. As troops of the ogre kingdom 
fought hard here to avoid the fall of the palace, the 
rooms are heavily ruined and buried. Ixion's 
followers however cleared them of bodies, so just 
common objects and random critters (see table for 
Level 2 B) may normally be found here. There are 
sliding stone doors between the rooms of this area, 
but they are often difficult to spot and jammed. 
These are indicated as secret doors in the map, even 
if they really aren't. 

The Darkers will not immediately find the six 
vampires, but when they do they'll try to bring them 
to their side. The choice is very difficult for the six 
because by now they have developed a strong 
friendship that is more important to them than their 
former religious allegiances. 



3 - The Barracks. This area housed ogre soldiers 
at the time of the Ogre Kings. It was almost destroyed 
completely during Ixion's invasion and left so. Now 



1 - The zombies are equipped with 
ogre arms of almost a thousand 
years ago, some rusty but others in 
good condition and very 
interesting to modern ogres and 
historians. 



2 - When The Last One attacked 
however he killed several of Ixion's 
followers here, and he buried in 
one closed room here two young 
men and two young women, close 
friends: Ilya, Midin, Irina and 
Malina were turned into vampires, 
then Neva and Martin, followers of 
Nyx in later centuries, were forced 
to join them too. Now they live in 
one of the apparently closed 
rooms, from time to time forced by 
The Last One to kill intruders. If 
turned there is a 50% they'll break 
free of the bond with Him. 

Another room still preserves 
Kotesh' s library, mostly in 
parchments, tablets and papyrus, 
with books that could be priceless 
to scholars and very useful to 
adventurers too, as they describe 
in detail nearby human and 
inhuman cities, now lost and in 
ruins. 

3 - The remains are too broken to 
be animated as skeletons but the 
Last One will raise 10 ogre wraiths 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie Lowen Ruins of Kotesl? 




burnt skeletons can still be seen among destroyed 
arms and the usual debris. 

The Darkers will be able to bring the wraiths to their 
side, as they were ogre followers of Nyx. They will 
remain here as guardians for them. 

4 - The Former Gate The entrance of the ancient city 
was completely buried by the landslide. The ogre-built 
gatehouse was demolished in the attack by the 
followers of Ixion, and without giant and ogre workers 
it was rebuilt in much smaller proportions, and 
evidently with a much less sound structure. The area 
is impassable. 

The Darkers will eventually clear the area of critters 
but will not excavate it as now the gate, being 
underground, is useless. 

5 - The South East Tower. The tower was taken 
during Ixion's invasion and the defenders killed, their 
bodies later removed. The tower is completely empty. 

If the Darkers discover the apparition they'll try to 
raise him as a full incorporeal to join their ranks. 



6 - The Foundry A center of power in Kulfan's 
kingdom, the Foundry was the siege of the 
metalworkers, ogres who combined massive strength 
with quasi-magical knowledge of metalsmithing. It was 
gutted with magic by the followers of Ixion, although 
the massive outer structure resisted. Thus, the area 
looks blasted and scorched. The large amounts of 
metallic ores stored in nearby warehouses have 
attracted Rust Monsters, which can be found in both 
areas. There are a total of 12 Rust Monsters in this 
level. 2d6-3 of them can be found here at any time. 



from them to be sent against 
intruders, or less if he decides so. 



4 - Digging into the debris, critters 
hideouts could be found (see 
table), but also ancient arms of the 
ogre and giant soldiers, and even 
a few human sized, as there were 
followers of Nyx among the ones 
who fell during Ixion's invasion. 



5 - The only interesting thing here 
is some graffiti done by ogres and 
human soldiers on the interior 
walls. The apparition of a human 
soldier will appear sometimes to 
talk, but he's immaterial and 
unable to attack. The Last One 
sometimes used him to convince 
unaligned adventurers that the 
followers of Ixion are violent and 
tyrannical, simply to create 
division and confusion. 

6 - All the metal weapons have 
been long eaten, but there are 
some interesting carved wooden 
spear shafts in a corner. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"CI7G Lowen Ruins of Kotesl? 




Eventually the Darkers will chase the monsters away 
and the ogres and giants will rebuild the Foundry, 
but it will take time. 

7 - The South Court. The former court is 
completely buried under the earth. Here ogres were 
killed during Ixion's invasion and priests and 
soldiers were buried during The Last One's attack, 
so there is a good supply of skeletons under here, 
ready to be animated. Some can be seen partially 
emerged. 

The Darkers will place Aysin, an incorporeal 
undead cleric of Nyx (as Spectre, C7) to guard the 
place against further animations of dead bodies and 
random intruders. 



8 - The Great House. This place was the common 
house of the metalworkers. Many were killed here 
when the human followers of Ixion invaded, their 
possessions and remains long gone. Later humans 
used the house as a barracks for short periods. Now 
critters and rust monsters often wander here. 

The Darkers could discover the incorporeal undead 
before The Last One has a chance to use them, but 
as they were followers of Ixion in life they'll refuse 
to aid them. They could aid PC's loyal to the sun 
god. 

9 - Ore Warehouse This large building served to 
store metallic ores during the days of the Ogre Kings, 
which were then transformed into weapons and 
tools in the Foundry (area 6). Rust Monsters have 
since consumed all of the iron ore, although some 
copper and tin ore can be still found here. 2d6-5 
Rust Monsters are encountered here at any time. 



7 - The Last One will animate 
2dl00 skeletons here to fight the 
Darkers. 




Aysin, 

incorporeal undead 

8 - The Last One hid some 
incorporeal undead (ld4 wights 
and ld4 wraiths) here for future 
use, he'll not awake them for the 
initial Darkers invasion. 



9 - The Last One will animate some 
rust monster skeletons here if he 
needs them. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"die Loweii RuiNS of Kotesl? 




The Darkers will clear the place of all the rust 
monsters, dead and alive. 



10 - The Darkers house. This was the main 
headquarters of the Darkers at the time of the Ogre 
Kings, then it was used by Ixion's followers, then by 
the Darkers of Lord Vudar again, then by priests of 
Ixion (see level 1). Over the centuries The Last One 
managed to capture some of these folk, much to their 
misery, deforming their bodies and turning them into 
intelligent undead. There are now 22 of them, they 
look like sick gremlins or goblins and are capable of 
speech, but difficult to understand (treat as ghouls). 
If turned there is a 50% chance they will be freed from 
The Last One's bond. 



10 - The miserable creatures still 
have many objects and memories 
of their former lives, and are 
therefore an important source 
about the history of the first two 
levels. 




The Darkers will obviously try to free the creatures 
and will promise them better bodies, but probably 
many of them will ask for a merciful death and nothing 
more. 

11 - The Long Court. Between the temple of Nyx, 
metalworkers and stonemasons, this court was an 
important centre of the daily life at the time of the 
Ogre Kings. Later it was used for training by the 
followers of Ixion, but now is completely buried. 



11 - Many skeletons are buried 
here too, and The Last One can 
animate 2d20 in this area. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"C17G Lowen Ruins of Kotesh 
m 




The Darkers will defeat the skeletons and bless the 
area to avoid further animations. 



12 - The temple of Nyx. The main temple of the 
town at the time of the Ogre Kings also was the burial 
place of rulers for centuries. Indeed, in the crypt were 
buried Kulfan and several of his successors. The temple 
was partially destroyed by the followers of Ixion but 
they left the crypt undisturbed. Now it is a big room, 
eerily empty and silent. 

The Darkers will destroy this monster too, and they 
will be able to call Kulfan back. The ancient ogre king 
will return as a powerful nosferatu in their service, 
and he'll arrange to have the temple repaired and his 
quarters here, for the moment. Kulfan has magical 
weapons and armor. 

13 - Ogre King's Armory This area was originally the 
lower level of the Ogre King's palace, dug into the 
acropolis. It was used to store weapons and armor 
used by the King's elite warriors. This, and the adjacent 
areas, were preserved from the landslide, since they 
were already underground. The last battles of both 
wars were fought near, and in, this area. The Last One 
left a big Bone Golem (HD8) here made of ogre and 
human skeletons. 

The Darkers will destroy the Golem, and eventually 
they'll refurbish this room as an armory. 

14 - The General House. This was the house of top 
officials under the Ogre Kings and was used for the 
same purpose by Ixion followers afterwards. The Last 
One has used the bodies of a former ogre general and 
of a former Ixion general to build an unintelligent, but 
very scary, undead (As Nightwalker, LTD 15). 

The Darkers will not initially encounter the Monster, 
The Last One will send it against them at a later time. 



12 - The Last One tried many 
times, in vain, to reanimate the 
body of Kulfan, but was unable to 
open his tomb. He however built 
a huge monster with the bodies 
of all the other ogre and giant 
kings. The Body has ghoul powers 
but 12HD and his 3-5 meters tall 
(11.5 feet). It is hidden in the 
crypt and will come out only if 
The Last One wishes so. 



13 - The room has many signs of 
past battles but not much is left 
except for some rusty weapons 
and armor and old clothes which 
belonged to the followers of Ixion 
killed here in the past. 



14 - The most interesting things 
that can be found here are stone 
and clay maps of Traladara at the 
time of the Ogre King and some 
leather maps of the times after, 
hidden among the ruins. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ci7e Lowen RuiNS of Kotesl? 




15 - Soldiers Court. In this court ogre soldiers 
practiced and trained, some died here during Ixion's 
invasion and their bodies were burned. 

The Darkers will not bother to clear the place as it's 
now underground. 

16 - The Rain Market. This huge area was divided 
into several stalls and served as a covered market for 
the city. It was abandoned and sacked when Ixion's 
followers invaded, and never cleaned or resettled. 
Centuries old remains of merchandise still litters the 
floor. 

The Darkers will eventually collect all the interesting 
items left here and refurbish the market. 

17 - The Tailor House. This was a warehouse 
containing cloths of all kinds, a workshop and a store 
at the time of the Ogres Kings. Ragged remains still 
lie around in the room, and oozes have several lairs 
here. 

The Darkers will eventually clear the room and take 
the tapestries. 

18 - The Leather House. Here leatherworkers had 
workshops and stores at the time of Ogre Kings. 
Strangely enough, among the occasional beetle and 
giant rat, there is still an ogre cobbler working here. 

The Darkers will try to give Humgr a better corpse 
and he'll be very happy to have people around again. 
He'll not be hostile to PC's, not even if they openly 
claim enmity to Nyx, as he doesn't really care. 



19 - The Workers Houses. Mostly ogre workers lived 
here or in the level below the room at the time of the 
Ogre Kings. Not much is left of the bedrolls and the 
meager personal possessions that once were here. 



15 - Digging here some old 
weapons could be found, some 
valuable to collectors, and some 
random critter. 



16 - For a scholar, a huge 
interesting variety of everyday 
objects from centuries past could 
be found here, as clothes, leather, 
carved wood and stones, mirrors, 
semi-precious stones, ceramic, 
ivory and metal medallions or 
figurines and much more. 

17 - Stuffed in a corner there are 
two interesting and precious 
tapestries praising Nyx and the 
Ogre Kings. 



18 - Humgr, the cobbler, was 
killed here by humans and 
forgotten, until The Last One 
raised him as an intelligent 
undead just for fun, but then 
forgot about him. He's not fully 
aware of being dead and of the 
passage of time. He feels a little 
alone, so he'll be happy to chat 
with anyone, even if people could 
for good reasons find him quite 
appalling as his corpse isn't in 
good shape. 



19 - Hidden among the debris and 
the litter on the floor there is the 
only passage that allows access to 
Level 3 of Koskatep, a layer built 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"Ciie Lowen Ruins of Kotesh 




The Darkers will repair the stair as they will move quite 
often from one level to another. 



20 - The Small Palace. This was in the past city the 
only thing similar to a tavern and an inn, as is evident 
from the many ruined bed rolls still lying around. It 
was partially burned and not much is left intact here. 
Some rhagodessas, with eggs and larvae too, have 
chosen the place as their main home and will try to 
chase intruders away. 

The Darkers will not kill the rhagodessas but rather will 
charm and train them to be used as guardians. 

21- The South West Gate. As the other gates, this too 
is now completely buried. The two small towers on its 
side still have corpses of fallen ogre soldiers. 

The Darkers will destroy the things. 



22 - The Great Tower. This tower is the only part of 
ancient Kotesh that surfaces outside on the left side of 
Koskatep hill, but the old access in the roof is blocked 
by debris and earth. 

The Darkers eventually will discover the access, repair 
it, and will always post two ogres and one hill giant 
sentries here, to look around and block the passage. 
They'll let Chuv live here, not realizing that he'll 
continue to be used as a spy by The Last One. Eventually 
that could get him killed. 



by hutaakans and later inhabited 
by gnolls. The passage is a stair 
that was clearly repaired multiple 
times during the centuries but 
now it's not in the best of 
conditions. 

20 - A curious adventurer's 
journal centuries old can be 
found in a corner. It's interesting 
as it comes from a group mixed 
of ogres, giants and humans who 
tried in vain to prevent the war 
that destroyed ancient Kotesh in 
95 AC. 



21 - The Last One made a little 
experiment mixing ogre skeletons 
and gelatinous cubes, so now 
there are 4 gelatinous skeletons 
in the towers. They aren't very 
dangerous so he forgot them, but 
he'll use them against the Darkers 
in their initial invasion. 

22 - Chuv, an almost mad 
werebat, lives here secretly in a 
lair built just under the roof and 
hidden by wooden beams. The 
Last One had discovered him 
some time ago and now uses him 
as a spy and torments him, but 
Chuv would very much like to be 
left alone. He can communicate 
with all the normal and giant bats 
of the area, so he knows almost 
everything of the first 2 levels and 
somethings of Levels 3, 4 and 5 
too. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



23 - The West Court. Here was the biggest town 
market at the time of the Ogre Kings. Now it's a 
favorite place for centipedes and carrion crawlers. 

The Darkers will defeat the skeletons and try to clear 
the place, but when The Last One attacks again he'll 
be able to animate ld20 more skeletons here. 



24 - The Rich Houses. This area of the city was 
decorated with wall reliefs and paintings, and the 
houses well furnished, as it housed ogre and giant 
chiefs, shamans, and wizards, at the time of the Ogre 
Kings. It was heavily damaged during Ixion's followers 
invasion but partially repaired, as some priests lived 
here using the old furniture. The Last One animated 
ld8 human acolytes as ghouls to roam the area. 

The Darkers will destroy the ghouls and slowly will 
search for all the precious items left here to sell them, 
while the place will be eventually resettled by ogres. 
Occasionally the female ogres and hill giants living in 
Level 2B could be exploring here. 

25 - The Guildhall. This building was originally a 
stonemason's guildhall. Ogres employed a small 
number of Stone Giants as stonemasons, and the 
giants built this hall as their own quarters. Thus, the 
hall is built in grander proportions than the rest of 
the city, and has withstood the destruction much 
better than other buildings. There is little of value left 
in this area, although signs are evident of a past 
splendor ~ holes in the walls hint at massive 
chandeliers, and large bas-reliefs are still visible here 
and there. 



23 - The Last One will animate 
IdlOO skeletons against the 
Darkers here. 




24 - Much is left of the precious 
things the ogres and human 
priests had: necklaces, brooches, 
rings, clothes and much more, 
among the debris littering these 
rooms. 



25 - Extraordinary small works 
(figurines, relieves) done by the 
giants can be found here. They 
could have much value for the 
right buyers. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"C17G Lowen RuiNS of Kotesl? 




A single stone egg can be found among the rubble - 
it is an unhatched Stone Giant egg 1 . The egg is now 
dead, but it can be sold as a curio to scholars, 
collectors, or perhaps to a circus. 

Inspired by the place, the Darkers will eventually 
solicit some stone giants to live here and rebuild the 
workshop, but it could take some time for this to 
happen. 

26 - The Workshop. This building was the 
stonemason's workshop. It is full of large slabs of 
stone in various stages of crafting. The Stone Giants 
fled the workshop when the city was attacked, so no 
remains of them are left here. 

The Darkers could discover the golem before The Last 
One gets to use it against them. 

1 Stone Giants, according to AC 10, lay eggs, as they 
were created by Ka the Preserver, who was more 
familiar with oviparous biology 



26 - The Last One assembled a 
stone giant skeleton in the upper 
left corner. He couldn't really 
raise any dead giants, so he really 
made a stone golem that looks 
like a stone giant corpse. He'll 
not use it immediately against the 
Darkers but will keep him for 
later. 



THE BATTLE IN THIS LEVEL 



During the Darkers initial invasion, The Last 
One will send against them some zombies 
(room 1), wraiths (room 3, but they'll turn 
against him immediately), skeletons (room 
7, 11, 23), rust monster skeletons (room 
9), the intelligent ghouls (room 10, but 
they'll turn against him), the Bone Golem 
(room 13), gelatinous skeletons (room 21), 
and ghouls (room 24). 

When The Last One strikes back, he'll use 
the Six Vampires (room 2, but they could 
have already encountered the Darkers and 
gone with them, or be able to escape his 
control and flee), more skeletons (room 
23), Wights and Wraiths (room 8, who 



could turn against him) The Body (room 12), 
the Nightwalker (room 14), Chuv (room 22, 
but he'll be unwilling to fight and could flee), 
and The Stone Golem (room 26). 

The Darkers however in the meantime could 
have gained the allegiance of the vampires 
(room 2), the wraiths (room 3), maybe the 
apparition (room 5) the intelligent ghouls 
(room 10) and Chuv (room 22, if they can free 
and convince him). They'll also probably have 
on their side the Incorporeal (room 7), Kulfan 
(room 12), the rhagodessas (room 20) and 
some ogre and hill giant sentries (room 22). 

Humgr (room 18) is a special case as he'll not 
fight for either party. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 

Hf 




Dear readers, it is with pleasure that I 
introduce you to the second part of the 
gallery of Thyatian Senators and their 
families, relatives and allies, continuing the 
article that you can find in Issue #3 (Thyatian 
Senators pg 209). In this second part, we will 
continue the list of Constituency Senators, 
i.e. the chosen representatives of dominion 
rulers and the Senators elected by the 
Thyatian citizens all over the Empire. In the 
first part of the article we described Senators 
from Actius to Kerendas; here we continue 
our journey from Lucinius, on Mainland 
Thyatis, and we will lead you over land and 
sea through many dominions, including the 



Grand-Duchies of Ochalea and of the Pearl 
Islands, ending our voyage in Westrourke on 
the Isle of Dawn. 

In the next installment of this series we will 
move to describe the forty aristocratic families 
who have a Senatorial seat reserved for their 
head-of-the-family, and we will then end with 
the Conscripti, the Senators that have been 
permanently raised to the seat through their 
merits, and with the ecclesiastical senators, 
that include priests of the Church of Thyatis, 
diviners, sages and prophets from all the 
corners of the Empire. 



Sources are: "A History of Thyatian Literature", 
"TSR1037: Dawn of the Emperors", A Allston; G. Caroletti and J. Ruhland; 

"DDA1: Legion of Thyatis"; "Thyatian Variant Government", J. Ruhland; 

"DDA2: Arena of Thyatis"; "The Thyatian Senate", 
"Ochalea Gazetteer", G. Agosta; G. Caroletti and G. Agosta. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




coNsnruENcy 

SENATORS CONTINUED 
LUCINIUS 

A region of grassy plains and forest-covered 
hills, the capital of which is Port Lucinius, the 
seaport that hosts the Thyatian Navy training 
school. The people of Lucinius are incessantly 
proud of their seamanship. 



Population: 120,000 

Dominion ruler: Count Baldassarre 
Patrizio. 

Senators: 

Irene Pallathakis (ruler representative), 
Gens Sergia. 

Appius Glantri, (first elected), Populares; 
Tribunus 

Scribonio Fratojanni, (second elected), 
Populares 



The Count of Lucinius is Baldassarre Patrizio 

(CI 5), a descendant of the first Count of 
Lucinius (the county was separated from the 
Duchy of Thyatis by Emperor Gabrionus rv 
only at the turn of the 10th century). Patrizio 
is not especially fond of Thincol, since his 
family has a great love for the Gabrionus family 
and they disliked the way Thincol dealt, and 
deals, with his wife. 

Irene Pallathakis (born 954, W9, NG), a 
trusted friend and advisor to the Count, and 
a skilled wizard, is his appointed 
representative at the Senate. She is a tiny, 
common-looking woman, with dark blue eyes 
and a mane of black hair, with courteous 



manners and a low, pleasant voice. She seems 
about fifteen years younger thanks to potions 
of longevity. 

Appius Glantri (born 958, Bard 2, TN) is a 
direct descendant of the famed knight Darius 
Glantri. His branch descends from a cousin 
of Lord Tiberius Glantri, who led the Thyatian 
colonists to the current Principalities. Appius 
also descends from Senator Claudius Glantri, 
who was stripped of his senatorial family 
rights because of his involvement in the 
Conjuratio Lusciniae, the conspiracy of the 
Republican subversive Fabritius Luscinia; the 
family seat was given to the Patrizio family, a 
major enemy of the Glantri since. Appius's 
father Canius was the first of the family to 
return to the Senate as an elected senator in 
Kerendas, where they have most of their 
estates, but he was killed after three years in 
service and the killers were never caught. 
Appius has been quietly investigating the 
matter for years and is convinced Magist 
Demetrion had something to do with it. 
Appius is an idealist and is a well-liked 
Populares, and although he refuses ideas of 
revolution and violence, he is friendly to 
Lentulus and the Republicans, and thus many 
Senators and Army officers think of him only 
as a Republican-in-Populares-clothing. Appius 
started as a Kerendan senator too, but during 
the last elections he earned his seat in 
Lucinius, where he stayed most of the time 
in his second term as a Tribunus, travelling 
to monitor justice and trials and to listen to 
the appeals of common citizens. Appius's 
mother is Mariela Poggi (born 939, NW, TN), 
an embittered Kerendan noblewoman that 
counts among her ancestors Alexander 
Glantri himself, through the expelled 
Archduke Alexius Glantri. Appius is married 
to Deianira Ghio (born 961, NW, NG), a 
member of a prominent Kerendan family. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Their eldest son, Publius Appius Junior (born 
980, Fl, TN), is also set to become a politician. 
The Glantri family wholly supports Appius. 
The most important members are Titus, 
Appius' younger brother, and Philodemos, a 
second cousin. Appius' cousin, Alexandra, is 
married with Octavius Marcianus, a prominent 
politician in Thyatis City. 

Scribonio Fratojanni (born 960, NM, NG) is 
a friend of Appius and acts unofficially as his 
representative in Thyatis City. He is a secretary 
of sorts, and keeps Appius informed during 
his travels of important sessions or votes that 
may be relevant to Appius's interests. 
Scribonio is a former naval officer and naval 
engineer, and has often worked closely with 
Archduke Derentarius and Count Actavius in 
matters that regard the Navy and naval arsenals. 

MACHETOS 

Machetos was once the wealthy homeland of 
the Karameikos ducal family. Thirty years ago, 
Duke Stefan III traded his lands for Traladara 
and moved west with the whole treasury, while 
Emperor Thincol sold all the wealth, livestock 
and slaves and ruined the duchy's economy, 
depopulating it as a result. The new Duke, 
Callastian, paradoxically thanks to improving 
trade with Karameikos, has since rebuilt 
Machetos into a self-sufficient dominion, with 
a thriving grain farming and lumber industry. 
As a consequence, Duke Callastian is the most 
popular figure among the population, while 
Emperor Thincol is thoroughly despised. The 
capital, Machetos (pop. 2,500) is a picturesque 
small town built quite close to the Duke's 
Castle. 



Population: 30,000 

Dominion ruler: 

Jowdynites. 



Duke Callastian 



Senators: 

Duke Callastian Jowdynites, Populares. 

Urban Sakigenetos (ruler representative), 
Populares. 

Aulus Livianus, Populares (first elected) 

Rufinio Quaerulus, Gens Sergia (second 
elected) 

Sergius Timens, Republicans (third elected) 




Callastian 
Jowdynites (born 
933,Fll,LN)isthe 
Duke of Machetos 
and a Senator of 
the Empire. He 
became Duke by 
royal appointment 
when the previous 
Duke, Stephan 
Karameikos, 
traded his lands to acquire Traladara. 
Callastian, then one of the best generals of 
Thyatis, thought he was being rewarded for 
his brilliant military services. Unfortunately, 
Thincol had stripped Machetos of its wealth, 
livestock and slaves, ruining the duchy's 
economy and forcing Callastian to rebuild 
the land from scratch. Since then, Callastian 
has become a silent enemy of the Emperor 
and a precious ally of the Populares. He is a 
bitter, tired man without heirs and with few 
friends. 

One of them, Urban Sakigenetos (born 953, 
NM, NG), is the son of his previous seneschal, 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Adrian (born 921, F3, NG), and is also his 
appointed Senator of the dominion. He sees 
the bitterness in Callastian and would like to 
soothe it somehow, as he thinks Callastian has 
been a great ruler for Machetos. Urban is 
married to Helena (born 970, NW, N), a skilled 
painter much younger than himself, and they 
have a small son, Aristid.es (born 996), and 
an infant daughter, Clelia (born 999). His 
previous wife, Massentia, died several years 
ago, childless. 

Aulus Livianus (born 958, NM, TN) is the 
veteran Senator of Machetos. After having lost 
his mother when he was 8, Aulus inherited his 
fathers 's timber industry after he killed himself, 
almost ruined by debts, in 981. He managed 
to rebuild his family fortunes - his is a typical 
Machetan story of trial and rebirth, that has 
won him many sympathies as a candidate, not 
least because of the attitude he showed 
towards his employees. Livianus has a great 
respect for Duke Callastian, since he considers 
the Duke the main person responsible for the 
recovery of Machetos. As most Machetans, he 
strongly dislikes the Emperor - but even more 
so Stephan Karameikos, who condemned ten 
thousands of citizens to ruin just on a whim. 

Ruflnio Quaerulus (born 967, T(Rake) 3, LG) 
is a renowned watchmaker and jeweller from 
a small village close to Machetos. He has 
performed well in the past both as a judge and 
as an investigator, solving a few crimes and 
even more than a homicide. His wife Petronia 
(born 971, NW, CG) harassed him to take up 
a political career and in 997 he stood up for 
election, and was chosen, much to his own 
surprise. He doesn't like the Senate, doesn't 
feel like he has anything interesting to say, and 
has joined the backbenchers of Gens Sergia, 
where he dreams of being home repairing 
clocks or solving a local mystery. Rufinio and 



Petronia have two daughters, Gabriela (born 
992) and Stella (born 996). 

Sergius Timens (born 970, F3/T(Rake)3, LE) 
is the first Republican Senator in Machetos - 
he managed to obtain this position through 
violent rants against the Emperor, calling for 
a revolution and to throw down the Empire. 
Actually, he's an Alphatian spy. He was 
ordered to spy on the Republicans and see 
whether they could be of any use to 
undermine Imperial and/or Senatorial 
influence. He is a gloomy man and found it 
extremely easy to morph into a Republican 
orator, something that the other Alphatian 
spy in the Senate, his boss Cabirio Nasica, is 
increasingly worried about. 

Mosruus 

Mositius is a long, narrow island due east of 
Hattias. Once little more than a grassy lump 
of stone with a bad reputation, it was changed 
into a travel resort by her first ruler, Triella 
Tien-Tang, appointed to the position by her 
friend Emperor Thincol. Triella discovered 
and learned to control the Censer of the 
Mists, an artifact which releases emotion- 
inducing mists all over the island. She 
promptly turned Mositius, then a sparsely 
inhabited land, into a rich vacation resort, 
allowing her to purchase herself the status of 
Duchess. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CiiyatiaN SeNatons 




Population: 15,000 

Dominion ruler: Duchess Triella Tien-Tang. 
Senators: 

Duchess Triella Tien-Tang, Gens Zendrolian. 

Dominica Assenzio (ruler representative), 
Gens Zendrolian. 

Polibia Stateritis, Gens Zendrolian (first 
elected) 

Alceste Sardi, Free Thinkers (second elected) 

Memmus Theofilos, Free Thinkers (third 
elected) 



The first dominion 
ruler of Mositius, 
Triella Tien-Tang 
(born 928, W20, N) 
and her cursus 
honorum are 
despised heartily 
by many Senators 
(one of them is, 
unsurprisingly if 
you think about it, 
Duke Callastian 
Jowdynites, 
another 'upstart' of 
T h y a t i a n 
aristocracy; most 
of the others come from Gens Aemilia and 
Aurelia). Triella, an Alphatian/Ochalean mix 
born in West Portage, spent a hard life on the 
Isle of Dawn and came to study magic quite 
late in life (at age 28) thanks to a traveling 
Thyatian wizard who discovered her talent for 
it. An accomplished mage and adventurer, 
Triella helped Thincol to regain the Thyatian 
imperial palace during the Alphatian Spike 




assault and, since becoming a Senator, has 
always been a staunch supporter of the 
Emperor, even though she isn't overly fond 
of many of his supporters in the Senate. With 
green, almond-shaped eyes and the red skin 
of Alphatian commoners, Triella looks like a 
young woman in her twenties, although she 
is much older. She prefers to dress in ornate 
green gowns of Alphatian spider-silk. 

Dominica Assenzio (born 940, W20, N) is a 
close friend of Triella, and a former lover. 
Triella is a closet bisexual, and keeps it secret 
as she doesn't want to bring more trouble to 
herself than she already has. Dominica is a 
good friend and a trusted counselor, their 
relationship ended several years ago and 
Dominica is married with adult children, and 
totally loyal to Triella, so there shouldn't be 
possible room for scandal. Dominica, 
originally from Kerendas, was the first wizard 
to be trained by Triella, and has shared many 
adventures with her. Dominica too keeps her 
age much younger through magic. 

Polibia Stateritis (born 951, F13, LG) is 
another famous Mositius resident. A strong- 
willed, former General, she decided to buy a 
villa in Mositius and run as a Senatorial 
candidate a few years ago. A moderate 
supporter of the Emperor, she is sympathetic 
towards the Duchess and Dominica Assenzio, 
and she wonders whether she should ask 
them for magical help to become younger 
and be able to build the family she neglected 
to pursue in favor of her career - but at the 
moment, she is too ashamed to ask. She is 
into her second term. 

Alceste Sardi (born 975, T4, CN) is a young, 
rich heiress with too much time and money 
on her hands. She moved to Mositius five 
years ago and bought her way into the Senate 
at the 997 elections with bribes, promises, 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




and a glamorous electoral campaign, with 
spectacular fund-raisings through flashy 
parties on the island. She has quickly risen in 
popularity in Thyatis too, where she is known 
for her expensive parties, socialite skills, and 
flamboyant and much-talked about flirts with, 
to name just a few, a gladiator, an Archduke 
(Maldinius Kerendas), an army officer, and a 
young Patriarch of Valerias. She is a master in 
disguise, and has several aliases in the city that 
she uses mostly to make fun of people she 
dislikes (for instance, she has repeatedly 
broken into the house of the Ochalean Senator 
Yang Lao-Ye just to steal a few books or move 
things around when he is absent from the city). 
She tends to vote on a whim (when present 
at all). The Duchess, Dominica Assenzio and 
Polibia Stateritis loathe her, as they think 
Alceste gives a very bad repute to the status of 
the Duchy and, more in general, to women 
Senators, that already face a hard time enough 
getting respect in Mainland Thyatis. 

Memmus Theofllos (born 956, F3, NE) is a 
rich merchant Senator who has a stake in many 
commercial activities on the island. In fact he 
is a member of the Shadow Hand and is a good 
friend of Maria Evergetes, the Shadow Hand's 
main political representative. Theofllos holds 
contacts between the Shadow Hand and 
several corrupt Senators like his fellow Free 
Thinkers Osteropolous and Canolocarius, and 
unscrupulous Gens Zendrolion leaders like 
Rufus Aenobarbus, to keep Maria Evergetes 
out of having to deal directly with them. He 
was already Senator in Kerendas, where he 
comes from (and where his family has worked 
as local bosses for the Shadow Hand for 
decades), before moving to Mositius to put 
the Shadow Hand in the business there about 
ten years ago. He was elected to the Senate as 
a Mositius Senator in 997. 



OCHALEA 

Settled in the centuries after Alphatian 
Landfall by a group of Alphatian commoners, 
Ochalea is a hilly island, not pretty but 
agriculturally productive. Ochaleans are very 
reserved, scholarly people devoted to 
honoring the Immortals. Contrarily to other 
dominions of the Empire, Ochalea is divided 
in five areas, each of which separately elect 
one Senator. 



Population: 125,000 

Dominion ruler: Archduke Teng Lin-Dieu 

Senators: 

Archduke Teng Lin-Dieu, Philosophers. 

Ling Tzu-Chen (ruler representative), 
Philosophers. 

Yang Lao-Ye, (elected senator for NE 
Ochalea), Philosophers 

Song Yun-Wu, (elected senator for NW 
Ochalea), Philosophers, Praetor Peregrinus. 

Quintus Chen Lao-Wai, (elected senator 
for Bohan, Chi and Shun), Gens Aurelia 

Wen Zi-You, (elected senator for Cao, 
Chung, Daisun and the Celestial 
Territories), Free Thinkers 

Chong Li-Yi, (elected senator for Kiang, 
Wang and Shou), Gens Aemilia 



There are eight Senators from Ochalea, 
including of course Archduke Teng Lin-Dieu 
himself, Abbot Teng Lee-Dai (see below) and 
High Priest Ling Tzu-Chen, high-ranking 
members of the Jade Temple who have been 
chosen by the Archduke to fill the seats that 
are assigned to the Teng family and to the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




governor of Ochalea, as well as five additional 
elected representatives. Aristocratic Senator 
Ran-Wen Zenobius and Duchess Triella Tien- 
Tang are also of Ochalean origin. Senators 
Teng, Ling, and Zenobius belong to the 
Philosophers faction (headed by Archduke 
Teng), while Duchess Triella is a member of 
the Zendrolian faction. 

Abbot Teng Lee-Dai (C14, LG) is an abbot of 
the Jade Temple, and a distant relative of the 
Archduke. This 50 years-old scholar is a master 
of defensive martial arts, as well as an expert 
in Ochalean history. He currently represents 
the Teng family (see below) in the Imperial 
Senate, a duty that keeps him in Thyatis city 
most of the time. 

Ling Tzu-Chen (Cll (of Koryis), LG), a High 
Priest of Koryis in the Jade Temple of Ochalea, 
is the representative Senator for the Ochalean 
government. This aged scholar and priest 
follows Archduke's Teng directives unfailingly, 
and is possibly even more committed to the 
Philosophers' pacifist stance than him. 

Chong Li-Yi (F7, LN), holding the senatorial 
seat for the Central Ochalea region, is a 
member of the Gens Aemilia, and of the 
Society of the Blue Flower, a semi-formal 
political organization sharing similar goals to 
the Gens Aemilia, but limited to Ochalea. The 
main political goal of Chong and his associates 
is the establishment of local legislative 
assemblies modeled on the Thyatian Senate 
in the Grand Duchies (the Society campaigns 
for the establishment of an Ochalean senate, 
and Chong adapts this into a more general 
policy for the Empire). 

SongYun-Wu (Pr5 (Pantheist), NG), an elderly 
priest of the Eight Immortals, Song Yun-Wu 
has been Senator of the North-Western region 
for five times in a row. A very popular man, he 



is a member of the Philosophers faction, 
preaching moderation in all things. Contrary 
to many priests, he worships all of the Eight 
Immortals equally, since he believes that the 
Immortals each emphasize a particular trait 
or virtue, and only a good balance of all can 
lead to perfection. He is one of the few 
Ochalean Senators to be popular in Thyatis, 
thanks to his extremely good standing as a 
Praetor Peregrinus, a position he holds also 
in this legislature, as well as in his homeland. 

Senator Quintus Chen Lao-Wai (T5, TN), a 
middle-aged merchant of mixed Ochalean 
and Thyatian descent, Chen Lao-Wai 
(Quintus Chen to the Thyatians) has bought 
his way into the Senatorial seat of the South- 
western region, by financing the building of 
the new Cathedral of Wumingdou - and 
distributing money to many of his supporters, 
in pure Thyatian style. A member of the Gens 
Aurelia, Quintus supports the Church of 
Thyatis in its efforts to control the 
government. He is not a fanatic, though - he 
just sees the church as his ticket toward a 
permanent Senatorial seat, and perhaps even 
higher. 

Yang Lao-Ye (Pr8 (Philosopher of Law), LN), 
recently elected Senator of the North-Eastern 
region of Ochalea, is a member of the 
Philosophers faction. He is a somewhat 
boring scholar and researcher in natural and 
human law. His considerable magical powers 
derive entirely from his faith in the power of 
Order, not from worship of any Immortal. 
Yang Lao-Ye is a member of the Mystic Way 
of Order. He keeps his head completely 
shaved, and strictly respects a number of 
taboos, including not eating meat, not 
drinking alcohol, and bathing in cold water 
only. He is dressed in formal priestly robes 
at all times. Perhaps not surprisingly, he is 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




not at all popular with the society of Thyatis 
City - not that the fact concerns him: he only 
accepted being elected to the Senate so that 
he could travel to Thyatis City and consult the 
library there. However, being extremely 
respectful of his role, he is present in the 
Senate for every debate or vote, which actually 
prevents him from spending as much time as 
he would like in the libraries. 

Wen Zi-You (NM, NG), a weak candidate for 
the position of Senator of the South-Eastern 
region of Ochalea, was, to his own surprise, 
elected thanks to a combination of low 
number of voters and the Shadow Court 
managing to converge all its voting power on 
him - as well as eliminating several other 
candidates. A member of the Free Thinkers, 
Wen has no contact whatsoever with the 
Demon Cults, but some elders consider him 
weak enough to be manipulated through 
threats, blackmail or magic. Prior to his 
election, Wen worked as a medium-ranked 
bureaucrat in the provincial bureaucracy of 
Daisun. His prime interest in the Senate is 
currently to obtain some funding for his home 
province. 

PEARL ISLANDS 

The homeland of the black-skinned Nuari, the 
Pearl Islands have freely been a part of the 
Empire since the time of Empress Valentia. 
Nuari are over-achievers: a race of scholarly 
warriors and widely-read peasants, 
contemptuous of laziness and lies, who 
strongly believe in sexual equality. They live 
scattered in small villages through the five 
main islands that constitute the archipelago 
(Nuar, Kuir, Dwair, Puir and Tuar) . The only 
major community is the capital Seagirt, on 
Nuar, the biggest and easternmost island. A 
thriving trading point, Seagirt hosts the 



Archduke's palace and a major Thyatian Navy 
base. 



The Archduke of the Pearl Islands, Nurokidu 
Nuar (born 950, T(Rake)36, LG) is one of the 
most present rulers at the Senate sessions, 
since he insists that "my islanders rule 
themselves well enough, they need me more 
in the City than they do in the Islands". 
Nurokidu, a descendent of the first Archduke, 
is an adventurer, explorer and scholar. His 
wife Venus died many years ago, and he was 
never able to father children. His heir 
presumptive is his sister Kiana (born 952, 
T(Rake)18, LG). Kiana is an adventuress and 
is married with Bursi Dwair, a Nuari sailor, 
and they have three children: Ameera, a girl 



Population: 100,000 

Dominion ruler: Archduke Nurokidu Nuar. 

Senators: 

Archduke Nurokidu Nuar, Philosophers. 

Baralidu Nuar 1 (ruler representative), 
Philosophers. 

Tanarobi Nuar, Philosophers (first elected), 
Tribunus. 

Ejo Quaye, Free Thinkers (second elected), 
Praetor of the Pearl Islands. 

Samuela Kuir, Philosophers (third elected) 

Abeeku Dwair, Populares (fourth elected), 
Quaestor of the Pearl Islands. 

Yara Mensah, Gens Aurelia (fifth elected) 

1 See "DDA2". 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




of 19; Lando, a boy of 16; and Diulanna, a girl 
of 13. 

The honest and trustworthy Baralidu Nuar 
(born 959, T(Rake) 4, CG) started as an elected 
senator fifteen years ago, but after two terms 
at the Senate he was inclined to retire, tired 
of the corruption and hostility experienced 
daily. It was the Archduke who insisted that 
he remain at the Senate as his right hand man. 
Baralidu is very popular among his fellow Pearl 
Islanders and respected by many citizens in 
the City, although he still thinks of himself as 
a back-row senator, and is always surprised 
when he is recognized and appreciated by 
third parties. Baralidu is a brooding, frownful 
Nuari, quite unlike his fellow merry, positive 
and optimistic islanders. Baralidu is hostile 
towards Helenites Osteropolus, Angelarian 
Canolocarius, the Free Thinkers, the Hattians 
and nationalists. On the other hand, he has a 
great love for Emperor Thincol, who he tends 
to perceive as a mythical figure since hearing 
tales as a child of Thincol and the Spike Assault 
from his uncle Augustine Nuar (born 936, 
Fll, CG). Augustine was a gladiator and fought 
with Thincol in the battle, and then took up a 
position as military officer in the Army; today 
he is an aged, retired man happy to stay at 
home in Nuar. 

Tanarobi Nuar (born 950, T(Rake) 6, LG) is 
the most famous Nuari in Thyatis City, and has 
acted as Nuari Envoy in the City for the last 20 
years, since he moved there after the death of 
his younger brother Bolotobi after being 
duped by a gang. Tanarobi changed the nature 
of the Pearl Islander Consulate, having made 
sure that all Nuari arriving at Thyatis City go 
to the Consulate to get advice that can help 
them - and other foreigners - to learn precious 
advice so as not to have problems in the 
Mainland. Tanarobi has a great sense of duty, 



and has worked hard for the last twenty years 
for his people in Thyatis, something that 
earns him always the first place in the 
Senatorial elections. He is full of advice and 
recommendations for young travelers and 
visitors, and is an entertaining storyteller 
capable of putting advice in short interesting 
anecdotes. He is a middle aged Nuari, fit, with 
greying black hair and black eyes - he dresses 
as a Thyatian and has an immaculate urban 
pronunciation, with no Nuari accent coloring 
his speech. Tanarobi has a wife and four adult 
sons and daughters on Nuar. 

Ejo Quaye (born 948, Bard 9, CG) is an 
expert politician that hails from Puir, one of 
the smallest Pearl Islands. She has slowly 
risen in popularity through all the Pearl 
Islands and at the last election she was the 
second most voted Senator on the Islands. 
She stays clear of petty faction squabbling 
and considers herself a Free Thinker. She has 
been elected for three terms and spends most 
of her time in the Pearl Islands, traveling from 
island to island to administer justice in her 
role as Praetor. Although a mature woman, 
she is still naive in regards to the Thyatian 
way of life - maybe that's why she has no 
problems with being associated to Helenites 
Osteropolous and Angelarian Canolocarius, 
whom she considers good friends, to the 
astonishment of Tanarobi Nuar and Baralidu 
Nuar, who have both tried to warn her more 
than once about the nature of her Free 
Thinker colleagues. 

Samuela Kuir (born 953, T(Rake) 3, NG) is 
a mixed Dunael/Tanagoro with fiery red hair 
(now showing streaks of grey), light brown 
skin and sympathetic, slightly mocking green- 
amber eyes. She is a lawyer and is especially 
concerned with the plight of poor non- 
Thyatian citizens, from people of the Pearl 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CiiyatiaN SeNatons 
mam. 





Islands to Alphatians and Dunael from the Isle 
of Dawn, and more recently with Thratians 
from the Hinterlands. She is a very good friend 
of Tanarobi Nuar. Her mixed ancestry and her 
work has made her a favourite target for 
racists, Thyatian supremacists and Storm 
Soldiers. 

Abeeku Dwair 

(born 971, F6, TN) 
is the Quaestor for 
the Pearl Islands. An 
energetic young 
man, Abeeku has 
adventured on the 
Thyatian Mainland, 
where he grew to 
like the more 
pragmatical and 
culture. Abeeku is 
somewhat annoyed by the attitude of his fellow 
islanders. However, he intends to exploit what 
he perceives as the weaknesses of the Nuari 
culture for his political profit. He knows what 
Nuari expect from him and what the Empire 
will consider a wothy service, and he intends 
to work in the middle ground. 

Yara Mensah (born 967, C9 (of Korotiku), 
CG) is a traveling Matriarch of Korotiku and 
an adventuress. She has travelled mainly on 
Ochalea and in the Pearl Islands, and although 
very much a Philosopher in her political 
beliefs, she spends most of her time in the 
company of the clerical Aurelii Senators, as 
she thinks it is more important to bring her 
influence on that faction than on 'preaching 
to the believers' among her fellow Nuari. She 
has been elected for the first time in the 997 
election. 



aggressive Thyatian 



REDSTONE 

Redstone (Saxa Rubra in Thyatian) is a large 
military town run by the Thyatian Army, with 
about half the population being civilian. 



Population: 20,000 

Ruler: Commander General Harantius 
Lycandronion 

Senator: Ulpius Nasica, (elected), Gens 
Zendrolian 



Ulpius Nasica (born 953, F19, NE) is a 
former Lieutenant General in Redstone. He 
is a cruel and violent man with crude passions 
like cestus-fighting, gladiatorial games and 
most violent chariot races and horse racing - 
and he is a master at them all. He spent most 
of his life fighting on the Isle of Dawn, where 
he is popular for his heroic deeds. His 
relationships and marriages have been hot 
and violent like he is, and rumors say he killed 
his last lover when he caught her with another 
man. Ulpius got elected more because he is 
infamous than because he is popular, but he 
didn't spend much time in the Senate during 
his first two terms anyway. His ambition is to 
become Praetor of the northern Isle of Dawn, 
but at his second term in the Senate he hasn't 
managed to begin the cursus honorum yet. 
He has grudgingly accepted the idea that he 
has to spend time in Thyatis City to get to his 
goal. 

Two other distant relativs of Ulpius are 
Senators: Antonius, the elected representative 
of Sclaras (see below), and Antonius's second 
cousin Cabirio, a meritory senator. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



retebius 

A land of watered grasslands stretching from 
the sea to the northern hills, home of the two 
great orders of Thyatian airborne knights, the 
Retebius Air Fleet and the Knights of the Air, 
Retebius sustains itself with cattle and horse 
herding. The City of Retebius (15,000) is a 
broad city, whose north-western half is owned 
by the Duke, who uses it as landing-fields and 
beast-quarters for the two orders. 



Population: 200,000 

Dominion ruler: Duke Callastian Retebius 
Senators: 

Duke Callastian Retebius, Gens Zendrolian. 

Libonia Aeris (ruler representative), Gens 
Zendrolian 

Scipio Caeculo, Gens Zendrolian (first 
elected); Consul. 

Sixtus Viribono, Gens Zendrolian (second 
elected) 

Mars Gabronica, Pure Ones (third elected) 



Duke Callastian Retebius (born 969, T12, 
LG) is an experienced adventurer who just 
recently came to the ducal throne on the 
abdication of his mother Polibia (born 940, 
NW, NG). He posed as a common-born acrobat 
and made his living as an entertainer for many 
years of traveling and adventuring, meeting 
his future wife Mitasula on his journeys. He is 
a humorous man fond of story-tellers and 
actors; in defiance of his ancient family 
tradition he is not in the Retebius Air Fleet, 
but in the Knights of the Air as a pegasus-rider. 




And he is one of the peopel that provide a 
good reputation to the followers of Thincol 
- something that the Emperor is well aware 
of, and makes very good use of. Callastian is 
a typical Thyatian with brown hair and beard, 
brown eyes, who likes to dress in theatrical 
black trousers and cloak and a flowing black 
silk tunic. 

His wife Mitasula 
Nuar-Retebius 

(born, 973, Mil, 
LG), the daughter of 
a Nuari seaman- 
warrior of the 
Thyatian Navy, 
studied magic with 
a naval wizard and 
became an expert 
adventurer. She too 
is a pegasus-riding 
Knight of the Air. She likes to dress in 
knee-length, long-sleeved white silk tunics 
and white belt and boots. 

Libonia Aeris (born 971, F10, LG) was part 
of the adventuring group of Mitasula and 
Callastian - after they had married, but before 
they got back to Retebius. She has the 
complete trust of the ducal couple. A fierce 
woman, tall and muscular, she's considered 
a bit of an aberration in the Senate and among 
many Thyatians. She has become friends with 
several of the other elected women of the 
Senate suffering the same snickering remarks 
from men - among them, Tanja Bendaoud, 
Flavia Metonenzes, Delphina Koteas, Samuela 
Kuir and Yara Mensah. She supports Gens 
Zendrolian mostly because of Callastian, but 
has no special liking for the Emperor, whom 
she thinks belongs to the same chauvinistic 
bunch as most of the ethnically Thyatian 
Senators. Libonia has fallen hopelessly in love 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"CiiyatiaN SeNatoits 





with the courteous elf Linfarillien Greenheight, 
ruler representative of the Count of Vyalia. She 
has bought a love potion from the Hag of 
Hillfork, a famous prophetess who hides in a 
cave near that city, and is wondering how to 
make the elven Senator drink it. 

The presence of the Air Fleet and the Knights 
of the Air has made Retebius a progressive 
conservative steadfast, with Gens Zendrolian 
reaping most of the electoral harvest for the 
last century. 

Scipio Caeculo 

(born 960, F16,LG) 
is one of the two 
current Consules - 
it is his first term as 
such, and it is 
considered a great 
honor for the city 
and the Duchy of 
Retebius, who has 
voted him as Senator for four terms in a row 
- terms in which he held the posts of Quaestor, 
Praetor (twice) and lastly Consul. After 
becoming Consul he resigned from the 
command of the instructors in the Retebius 
Air Fleet - while his previous posts enabled 
him to keep both positions, being Consul 
required from him to spend too much time in 
the capital. Caeculo and Thyarius Palykratidius 
are rivals for a number of reasons, chief among 
them the eternal debate on what attitude a 
good teacher should have with his students - 
even more than the rivalry between Cavalry 
and Air Fleet. 

The jovial Sixtus Viribono (born 948, NM, 
LG) managed to be re-elected after his 
stunning performance as Tribunus during his 
first term in the Senate. A merchant with a 
solid food transport business, former mayor 
of Hillfork and sometimes judge, he was 



elected only after the third Senator died 
during the election night, poisoned by a plate 
of bad mushrooms, and somehow found 
himself Tribunus and spent his time traveling 
in central Thyatis. Although he was not 
elected Tribunus again, much to his dismay, 
he intends to spend his time traveling 
through Retebius and listening to his 
countrymen, and not gathering dust in the 
Senate. 

Surprisingly, Mars Gabronica (born 965, F9, 
TN), a Knight of the Air, got the third 
Senatorial position in Retebius. Mars is, like 
Alkybiades Nemeicus, one of the few Pure 
Ones who is not of Hattian origin. Mars 
doesn't share their racial prejudices, but is 
concerned about the Thyatian way slowly 
losing ground as the main philosophy of the 
Empire. He blames Thincol for not having 
been able to root out the Empire's chronic 
corruption - and he implies that one of the 
reasons is that Thincol himself is corrupt in 
the first place. The election of Sixtus is 
considered a shame by Duke Callastian, and 
although few Retebians admit to having voted 
for him, many a citizen of the Duchy has been 
heard muttering 'well, he's a bit excessive, 
but, he has nailed it, hasn't he?" 

SCLARAS, CARVCION $ 
BORyDOS 

These three islands are Protectorates in the 
Sea of Dread which elect one Senator. Sclaras 
is an island made of estates reserved for 
wealthy wizards. Carytion is an island which 
hosts a naval base and some scattered villages; 
most of Carytion, however, is made of wealthy 
estates and the island is the "non-wizardly" 
equivalent of Sclaras. Borydos is a prison 
island. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Population: Sclaras 5,000; Carytion 5,000; 
Borydos 5,000 (4,500 prisoners) 

Rulers: Sclaras is officially ruled by the 
throne, i.e., Emperor Thincol, but is in fact 
left to the powerful wizards that live on it. 
Carytion has no official ruler, so the highest 
authority on the island is Archduke 
Derentarius, Praetor of the Mainland 
Islands. Borydos is ruled by Prison Director 
Decio Tertullianus. 




Antonius Nasica (born 
930, M20, LN) 
managed to win the 
elections by combining 
two important aspects 
of these island 
protectorates' features: 
he's both a former 
Prison Director on 
Borydos, and a skilled 
wizard who owns an estate on Sclaras. A stern, 
uncompromising man, he left the post as 
Director in Borydos only a few years ago, and 
his memory is still fresh among the 500 army 
personnel. The wizards of Sclaras decided to 
vote for him instead of for his chief rival 
candidate, an Army official in Carytion. 

SHADOW COASt: 

This area is divided into two Provinces, 
Septentriona and Meridiona. They are almost 
entirely untamed wilderness, largely left to its 
own devices. Most of the sparse population 
consists of Dunael-descended people, with a 
few Thyatian colonists from the Mainland 
especially in Septentriona, a land of thick 
woods, while Meridiona is more a collection 
of highlands and bogs. 



Population: more than 10,000 

Ruler: Septentriona is officially ruled by 
Commander General Deitica Baralius. 
Meridiona has no official ruler. The highest 
governmental officer is Quintus Fabius, the 
Praetor of the Southern Isle of Dawn, whose 
seat is in Redstone. 

Senator: Scott Minnear; Tribunus. 



Scott Minnear (born 963, C10 (of Asterius), 
CG) is a traveling bard and priest who has 
been elected three times in a row to the 
Senate, where he is almost never seen. He 
has also been Tribunus thrice in a row and 
spends all his term wandering throughout 
the Shadow Coast, and occasionally to the 
main cities of the Isle of Dawn, to perform 
duties as judge or lawyer, and to administer 
justice, teachings, exorcisms, healings and 
blessings. A gaunt man with red hair, freckled 
pale skin and sea-blue eyes, Minnear is a 
popular figure in the Shadow Coast. 



'CEL AKBIR 

The Duchy of Tel Akbir is grassy in the south, 
turning arid to the north. Its population is 
more of Alasiyan than Thyatian descent - and 
shares a bit of the Alasiyan attitude towards 
women and wizards, although believers in 
the Eternal Truth are quite rare here. The 
beautiful capital Tel Akbir (20,000) is a 
harmonic blend of sea-port, fishing and 
farming community, and military base. 




"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Population: 150,000 

Dominion ruler: Duke Tarik ben Nadir. 

Senators: 

Duke Tarik ben Nadir, Gens Aemilia. 

Farid ben Nadir (ruler representative), Gens 
Aemilia. 

Hassad Fatnoussi, (first elected), Gens 
Zendrolian; Tribunus. 

Laakkad Abdelhadi, (second elected), Gens 
Aemilia 

Abderrahim Essaidi, (third elected), Free 
Thinkers 



Sheik Tarik ben 
Nadir (born 937, 
F12, N), formally a 
Duke, rules Tel Akbir. 
He is a great trader 
and keeps a 
knowledgeable eye 
and hand on the 
merchant guilds of 
the city. A subtle man, 
very polite and 
civilized, he is 
nonetheless capable 
of great and treacherous revenge when 
crossed. Exceedingly proud of his Alasiyan 
ancestry, he has a bit of an old-fashioned view 
about women. He is also brother of General 
Leilah ben Nadir (born 939, C20 of Tarastia, 
LN) military commander of Raven Scarp in the 
Hinterlands, and it doesn't come as a surprise 
that he has not exchanged a friendly word with 
his sister in forty years. Leilah ran away from 
home to join the Order of Tarastia and then 




the Army of Thyatis. She distinguished herself 
during the Alphatian Spike assault, has been 
twice married, and survived both adventurer- 
husbands. She is a capable but not inventive 
garrison commander, and does not allow for 
wartime atrocities. She uses potions of 
longevity to look about 30 years younger. 

Tarik has many sons and daughters. His third 
child, Farid (born 974, F3, NG) is his 
appointed heir and representative at the 
Senate. His youngest daughter Jamila (Tl, 
CN) seems destined to follow her aunt's 
footsteps, much to the chagrin of her father. 

The most popular Senator in Tel Akbir is 
Hassad Fatnoussi (born 950, F7, LE). A 
shrewd politician, a lawyer and an occasional 
judge, Fatnoussi, who began as an army 
lawyer in Fort Nikos, has been twice a 
Quaestor and once a Praetor, and is set to 
become a Consul before he reaches fifty. 
Fatnoussi is a legal expert, with ties to the 
most wealthy families of the Duchy that he 
has exploited to get elected in five elections 
in a row through their web of relatives, clients 
and associates. He is careful to stay perfectly 
on the right side of the law - his conscience 
is satisfied by 'playing the game by the rules', 
without taking too much into account the 
suffering that might cause. 

Laakkad Abdelhadi (born 954, T(Rake) 10, 
TN) is a follower of Sheik ben Nadir. He has 
fought in the Thyatian Army since he was 
eighteen, as a spy and scout on the Isle of 
Dawn, and has a good knowledge of the 
Alphatian culture and language. He left the 
Army about twelve years ago and rose quickly 
in the ranks of the Duke's collaborators. He 
has often administered justice in the name 
of the Duke and is known as a serious, 
balanced and objective man - qualities that 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Population: 25,000 (60% humans, 40% 
elves) 

Dominion ruler: Archduke Derentarius 
Mactator. 

Senators: 

Archduke Derentarius Mactator, Gens 
Aurelia; Praetor of the Mainland Islands. 

Aegus Noceti (ruler representative), Gens 
Aurelia. 

Maximus Cosmatos, Gens Aurelia (first 
elected) 

Corus Viator, Populares (second elected) 

Marius Honoribus, Populares (third 
elected) 

Delphina Koteas, Gens Sergia (fourth 
elected) 

Sindarin Miele, Republicans (fifth elected) 



are taken into great account by Tel Akbiran 
voters. 

Abderrahim Essaidi (born 968, Cll (of 
Protius), CG) is a priest who has traveled and 
adventured especially in Ylaruam and the 
Northern Reaches, sailing north up as far as 
Oceansend and Alpha, and has even been to 
Hule and the Savage Coast once. He is a 
well-read man who speaks several languages 
and has a gift for music (he plays a variety of 
string and brass instruments). A moderate 
conservative who shares many ideas with 
Aemilii and Aureli, albeit in a less 
confrontational manner with the other 
factions, Abderrahim prefers considering 
himself a 'Free Thinker', as he is opposed to 
the concept of the factions itself (and thus even 
more the concept of a true 'party' like the 
Republicans) . He is friendly to several of the 
moderate conservative and/or seamen in the 
Senate (from Archduke Derentarius and Count 
Geraldan Actavius to Scribonio Fratojanni). 
He is a close friend of Corus Viator. 



rEREKCIAS 

The greatest bone of contention between 
Thyatis and Minrothad, Terentias has been in 
control of the Mactator family for the last two 
hundred years - but bad feelings take a long 
time to die, especially among long-lived 
Minrothad elves. 

Terentians are traders, sailors and pirates; 
Crossbones (pop. 5,000), the island's capital 
and home to the Archduke's fortress, is a lively 
trading port that many a thinly disguised pirate 
vessel calls home. 



Archduke Derentarius Mactator (born 964, 
T23, TN), Praetor of the Mainland Islands and 
former Consul of Thyatis, is one of the most 
important politicians of Gens Aurelia. The 
fierce Archduke is a skilled fighter, an 
adventurer and a former Army officer. 
Derentarius is a religious man, although in 
his very personal way. He is a follower of 
Protius, the Old Man of the Sea, a bold, brave 
sea-fighter who respects valor, personal 
integrity and isn't above using menace and 
force to get his way - after all, the spell and 
the sword are the way of the man of power 
and man has to fight his way in the world to 
get respect in the eyes of the Immortals - and 
this also explains how a supporter of Gens 
Aurelia can also be an endorser of piracy. The 
man has no patience with cowards and legal 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




pettifoggers, and has a hearty dislike for the 
Philosophers, for Gens Sergia, for the 
Republicans and for the Pure Ones. He is not 
overly fond of the Emperor, but thinks Thincol 
is sufficiently worthy to fill the role. He has a 
strong personal magnetism and is very 
egalitarian for a Thyatian aristocrat, something 
that brings him close to Duke Leonidas 
Ruggiero. 

Archduke Derentarius and Duke Maldinius 
Kerendas are arch-enemies, driven by a love- 
and-hate relationship towards each other that 
is growing to legendary status in the Empire. 
They are often rival orators whenever their 
faction needs to provoke the other one's 
faction; they have duelled more than once; 
and even fought for the same women, more 
to outplay each other than for real interest. 
While Maldinius is cold, calculating and 
smooth, Derentarius is all controlled fury and 
his violence is natural, and not calculated, to 
him, although he has learned over time to 
control it. Like Maldinius, Derentarius isn't 
married but has fathered more than a son and 
daughter all over the Sea of Dread and the Sea 
of Dawn. 

The Mactator family received their surname 
(which means "butcher") because of the fierce 
way the first Mactator Archduke wrestled away 
the islands from Minrothad, but they resent 
the name, and never use it if possible - a sure 
way to enrage Derentarius is to call him 
"Archduke/Senator/Quaestor Mactator". The 
Mactators are respected and admired in 
Terentias, but not overtly loved. Derentarius's 
parents both died a few years ago during a 
naval incident, along with his younger brother. 
Derentarius has no other close relatives, and 
isn't in a hurry to choose a heir. 

Derentarius has more than an ounce of Elven 
blood in his veins: two of his grandmothers, 



one on the father's side and one on the 
mother's, were half-elves (making him X U Elf). 
He is about 5 feet 9 inches tall, lean, with 
slightly pointed ears, honey gold eyes, blue- 
black hair, and a healthy, sun-tanned golden 
complexion. He has a short-trimmed beard 
which already shows hints of grey, but 
otherwise doesn't look one year older than 
25, something that is a clear advantage 
towards enemies who underestimate him. 

Derentarius has chosen, as his senatorial 
representative, the raider-priest Aegus 
Noceti (born 955, Cll (of Protius), CN). A 
former pirate, Aegus became a cleric of 
Protius under the patronage of a battle - 
seapriest with whom he had fought raiding 
ships from Minrothad and Ierendi in his late 
twenties. He is a respected and well-known 
figure in Terentias, and even now 
occasionally sails as a priest on raids and is 
known to invoke the blessing of Protius and 
of the Immortals on pirate and mercantile 
ships alike. Married thrice, with a score of 
sons and daughters who are mostly sailors, 
fishermen and pirates themselves, Aegus is 
obsessed with the sea and uninterested with 
matters in the Senate, where he attends only 
when Derentarius asks it from him, generally 
to vote on important matters - if he can be 
found in time. 

Terentians are known to vote Populares 
candidates, with the occasional Senator with 
Republican or Sergii ideals - it can be 
considered a moderate left stronghold. The 
Archduke's piousness has brought to the 
Senate some priests of Protius in the last 
years, that can be considered supporters of 
the Archduke and Gens Aurelia. The last of 
these Senator-seapriests is Maximus 
Cosmatos (born 969, C7 (of Protius), NG), 
a thirty-odd year old man with a bald head, 



THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CiiyatiaN SeNatons 




black moustache and beard, and fiery, dark 
eyes. An enthusiastic follower of the Archduke, 
Maximus doesn't feel at home in the luxurious 
City, constrained by the maze of alleys and the 
amount of people. He has befriended Gawain 
McLeod, another confused Senator new to the 
city. 

Two Populares Senators were elected in 
Terentias. Corus Viator is a merchant who 
has travelled over most of the Sea of Dread. 
He has the support of Terentian merchants 
who would like to boost trade with Minrothad 
(and are not into piracy) and sees Derentarius 
as a bit of a bore. The merchants don't want 
to cross the powerful Archduke, but they want 
the Senate to fight piracy and encourage 
diplomatic missions to the west with 
Minrothad, Ierendi, Karameikos and the Five 
Shires. The smooth-talking, nice, reassuring 
and confident Corus has been the right man 
for that for two terms now. Corus travels often 
with his adolescent son Favonius, while his 
wife Helena stays home with a younger son 
and daughter. 

His colleague Marius Honoribus (born 956, 
T5, NE) has been bought up by Maldinius 
Kerendas. Marius plays the role of a humble 
Populares Senator, but in fact he keeps an eye 
on Derentarius for the Duke of Kerendas, at 
the same time trying to use forged reports and 
paid witnesses to provide evidence against the 
Archduke and push Corus Viator or Sindarin 
Miele to some more or less open political 
action that can harm Derentarius. 

Delphina Koteas (born 962, T8, CG) is the 
Sergii Senator of Terentias. Although 
Terentians, especially because of the elven 
settlers, are not as chauvinistic as other 
Mainland Thyatians, it was not easy for 
Delphina to be elected here, the second 
woman to achieve this feat in the last 20 years, 



mainly because of her fame as a clever sailor 
and tradeswoman. She is an intelligent, 
perceptive woman who resents the way her 
fellow Senators treat her, especially the 
aristocrats. She is fond of Derentarius, who 
seems to her much better than the other 
aristocrats, but she cannot accept his 
theocratic views of Thyatian society, so she 
has found herself to be closer to Gens Sergia. 
Delphina is a beautiful widow with sun- 
tanned skin, light brown hair and hazel eyes. 
She has two children (Melissa, born 990, and 
Demetra, born 993) from her late husband, 
and is extremely discreet but very liberal in 
her affairs with men. 

Sindarin Miele (born 860, T6A19, CG) is an 
elf, and a Republican. He is the most vocal 
opponent of Derentarius on Terentias, whom 
he considers a reckless brute who hides 
behind the faith in Protius. Miele takes great 
pleasure in calling the Archduke 'Lord 
Mactator'. Miele realizes that without the 
Empire of Thyatis, most cultures of the 
Known World would risk their independence 
and, ultimately, destruction at the hands of 
other powers like Hule or Alphatia. That 
doesn't prevent him from dreaming of 
turning the Empire into a Confederacy of 
truly independent dominions - not like the 
pharce those Philosophers like to believe 
about Ochalea and the Nuari islands. 

'CHyA'CIS 

The sprawling center of the Empire, the 
Duchy and City of Thyatis is the most 
populous and wealthiest dominion in the 
Empire. A thriving center for trade and 
warfare for a thousand years, the City features 
the Empire's largest seaport, broad streets of 
concrete, huge public works and buildings, 
but also degenerated sprawls and ghettos, 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




and more corruption than any other part of 
the Empire. Thyatis elects three Senators from 
the Duchy, and two extra Senators as 
representatives of the City itself. 



Population: 1,500,000 

Dominion ruler: Duke Eusebius Torion. 

Senators: 

Duke Eusebius Torion, Gens Zendrolian, 
Censor. 

Sullianus Pica (ruler representative), Gens 
Zendrolian. 

Angelarian Canolocarius 1 , Free Thinkers; 
Tribunus. 

Helenites Osteropolous 2 , Gens Aemilia 

Aesculapius Lupercalis, (third elected), 
Populares 

Flavia Metonenzes, (fourth elected), Gens 
Zendrolian; Tribunus. 

Dexter Femurlongum, (fifth elected), 
Populares 



"Dawn of the Emperors", Book 1, page 30, 
says there are 2 city representatives, to sum 
to the three duchy representatives they make 
five. 

2 See DDA1 and DDA2. 



The nominal ruler of Thyatis is traditionally 
the Emperor's heir - in this case, Eusebius 
Torion, the son of Emperor Thincol. As a 
Duke, Eusebius is also a Senator of the Empire 1 . 

1 Emperor Thincol, Duke Eusebius and the 
Torion family will be detailed more fully in an 
upcoming issue of Threshold, along with the 
Conscript!, or "meritory senators". Fore more 
on the "meritory senators", see also "Patres and 



Sullianus Pica (born 966, C7 of Solarios, LN) 
has been chosen by Eusebius Torion as his 
representative in the Senate. Pica is only 
slightly younger than Eusebius, and is his 
spiritual advisor. Pica is an ambitious priest, 
who sees in Eusebius the chance to restore 
Solarios's clergy to prominence in the Empire 
- instead of being lickspittle dogs subjected 
to the whim of the arrogant Church of 
Thyatis. His opinion is not shared by the 
majority of Solarios's clergy, who is 
supportive of the Church of Thyatis and see 
themselves (probably deluding themselves a 
bit) as equal partner in Gens Aurelia. 

Helenites Osteropolus (born 947, Normal 
Man, CE) is one of the most corrupt and 
greedy senators of the Empire. He has served 
as Senator of the City for about thirty years. 
His great skills and charisma (Ch 18) allow 
him to retain an air of innocence that makes 
him seem more naive than guilty and allowing 
him to pass wrongdoings as mistakes. He has 
ties with the Shadow Hand, with the zzonga 
drug trade, with rigged games at the Coliseum 
and with illegal gambling. Politically, 
Helenites is on the conservative side of Gens 
Aemilia. He is a subtle enemy of the Emperor, 
using his ties with the Aemilii to present 
himself as a champion of the Senators and of 
the Thyatian population. He is also subtly 
playing with the xenophobic ideals of the 
nationalists and Hattian suprematists to 
undermine Thincol's support by trying to use 
his ethnic background against him; he has 
also used his current position as the Prefect 
of the XTVth Cohort of the Imperial Legions 
(stationed in Hattias) to do so. 

His late father Marius (918+976) was also a 
Senator before him. Helenites has recently 
been at odds with his son Pulcher (born 978, 

Conscripti", in Threshold #2, pp. 148-164. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Normal Man, CN) because of his relationship 
with the decadent, zzonga-addict Alphatian 
wizard Elemaledai 2 . 

Flavia Metonenzes (born 965, Normal 
Woman, LG) is one of a handful of elected 
women to the Senate in Mainland Thyatis. She 
is devoted to the Immortal Tarastia, patroness 
of Justice and Revenge. A wise and experienced 
woman, she is publicly recognized as a just 
and honest figure in a world of corruption - 
although she too has retorted to the 
"occasional indiscretion", as she might put it. 

There are two Populares Senators elected in 
Thyatis. Aesculapius Lupercalis (born 944, 
T(Rake) 2, TN) is a merchant. He has travelled 
all over the Empire since he was 16, in the 
company of his father Marcus (born 920, NM, 
TN) and his uncle Adrian (born 922, NM, TN). 
When he reached forty, wealthy and happy, 
with a young, beautiful wife (Michaela 
Callicratis, born 960, NW, NG) and two small 
daughters (Patricia, born 982, NW, NG, and 
Aristeia, born 984), he decided to enter 
politics. Since then, he managed to rise slowly 
in the eyes of the Populares, and he managed 
to enter the Senate, where he is serving his 
third term. The work in the Senate has affected 
him much: he had always perceived some 
corruption and treachery as a natural and 
non-harmful part of the Empire, but having 
witnessed the enormity of the problem (from 
the City districts, the corrupt clientes of 
politicians and men of power, to the influence 
of the Shadow Hand and the corruption 
among the ranks of the Senators), he sees his 
old self as a naive fool. Although he is a decent, 
quite honest man, he hasn't still found a way 
to use his skills to make an impact. His loving 
wife is worried for him, as he has become 
increasingly brooding in the last few years. 

2 See DDA1 . 



Dexter Femurlongum (born 963, T5, NE) 
is yet another Shadow Hand man in the 
Senate, who gets most of his votes from the 
slums of the City in exchange for money or 
because they fear him (or the people he 
represents) . 

WALIA 

Located in the westernmost part of Mainland 
Thyatis, this County is heavily-wooded and 
lightly populated by the Vyalia elf clans: 
Blueleaf, jewellers, painters and sculptors; 
Diamarak, forest- wardens and rangers; 
Etheredyl, philosophers and mystics; 
Greenheight, outgoing and boisterous friends 
of humans and halflings; Hierydyl, scholars, 
genealogists and naturalists; and Treeshield, 
soldiers and adventurers. The main 
settlements of Vyalia are the capital 
Greenheight (pop. 1,000) and the 
human/halfling/elven community of Foreston 
(pop. 5,000), the main center of training for 
the elven-sponsored elite human rangers 
called Foresters. 



Population: 20,000 (74% humans, 25% 
elves, 1% halflings) 



Dominion ruler: 

Greenheight 

Senators: 



Count Yldrisyl 



Linfarillien Greenheight 
representative), Philosophers. 



(ruler 



Ralynna Blueleaf, (first elected), Gens Sergia 

Diatres Imlacris (second elected), 
Philosophers; Tribunus. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Count Yldrisyl Greenheight (born 496, 
F10/W10, LG) rules the County of Vyalia and 
the city of Greenheight. The son of Yntherin, 
who first agreed to sponsor the Foresters some 
800 years ago, he is fond of human cultures 
and a scholar of Thyatian ceremonies and 
entertainments. He is a pale elf with black hair 
and eyes, who likes to dress in comfortable 
forest green tunics and black boots. The merry, 
life-loving Yldrisyl has never married, but he 
has fathered a dozen sons and daughters 
through a score of human and elven partners. 
His heir presumptive is his firtsborn Anthelion 
Greenheight (born 619, F12/W8/C4 of 
Ilsundal, NG), a retired adventurer and now 
a Treekeeper and priest of Ilsundal. 
Anthelion's mother is Evelina Longflngers 
(born 504, W5, NG), a master woodcutter and 
painter well renowned in Thyatis. Anthelion 
grew up with his mother and her family, and 
he is on excellent terms with both parents. 

Linfarillien Greenheight (born 754, W10, 
CG), a member of Greenheight clan, not 
related to count Yldrisyl, is the ruler 
representative of the Vyalia clans. Although 
formally nominated by the Count, the 
representative is actually chosen by a council 
of the elven Clans of the County. 

Ralynna Blueleaf (born 910, Bard 9/Wizard 
4, CN) has been elected for her first term as a 
Senator. She wanted to try it more out of 
curiosity than any other reasons, and since 
there were no strong candidates, she arrived 
first in a fairly close election. She is a sculptor, 
actor and dancer, and is thinking of using the 
rivalry between Maldinius Kerendas and 
Derentarius Mactator as the subject of her first 
play, "The Duellists". At the moment she has 
written only the title and the first act. A reckless 
young elf, she is also toying with the dangerous 
idea of seducing both men, known 



womanizers, to learn more of their characters 
and maybe to stir things up to a worthy finale. 
She 'hides' herself among the Sergii - because 
she considers them the least interesting 
people in the Senate (bar the Philosophers) 
she thinks she will get less trouble from them 
than if she joined other factions. 

The elected Senator Diatres Imlacris (born 
961, NM, NG) is a human who represents 
Foreston, its environs, and many of the 
non-elven inhabitants, though he has 
definitely a Vyalian point of view on things. 
A respected political figure, fairly neutral, he 
owns a well-kept estate in northeastern 
Thyatis City. 



WEST: POR'CAQE $ CeNtual Isle 
of DawN 

West Portage (pop. 2,000) is a city of thieves, 
officially ruled by a Guild of Merchants that 
are in fact the local thieves' guild, guided by 
Lareth Kubek (born 969, T12, CN), its 
guildmaster. It is the terminus for a 100-mile 
portage trail where goods and even some 
ships are carted across the island at its 
narrowest point, over to the Alphatian- 
controlled East Portage. The population here 
is mostly of Thyatian and Alphatian descent. 
West Portage is the most important non- 
dominion city in the Central Isle of Dawn, 
and it elects a single representant along with 
the other free cities and villages in the area. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Population: more than 10,000 

Ruler: Guildmaster Lareth Kubek rules over 
West Portage. The other non-dominion 
settlements of this area have no official ruler. 
The most important governmental officer is 
Archduke Donegal Firestorm, the Praetor of 
Northern Isle of Dawn. 

Senator: Periandra Docerius, Gens 
Zendrolian (elected) 



Periandra Docerius is an enemy of Julia 
Kendasius of Kendach, as Periandra is trying 
to lobby to become the independent Baroness 
of West Portage, something that would close 
expansion in the area to the ambitious 
Countess. Periandra is the daughter of Senator 
Docerius's sister Diulanna. 

WESTROURKE 

A Thyatian Grand Duchy, it was founded over 
500 years ago and granted Grand Duchy status 
in 970. Newkirk (pop. 25,000) is the capital, 
a heavily-fortified and well-defended city. 
Archduke Firestorm maintains a series of 
signalling stations stretching from Newkirk to 
the Finnegan's Watch in the north, to warn of 
oncoming armies or fleets. 

Donegal Firestorm 

(born 950, F20, TN) 
is the ruler of 
Westrourke on the 
Isle of Dawn. He is 
the nephew of 
Thincol on his 
mother's side, and is 
intending to carve his 
own domain in 
Westrourke just like 
Stephan Karameikos 
did in Traladara. 




Population: 50,000 

Dominion ruler: Archduke Donegal 
Firestorm. 

Senators: 

Archduke Donegal Firestorm, Gens 
Zendrolian, Praetor of the Northern Isle of 
Dawn. 

Thrainkell Firestorm (ruler representative), 
Gens Zendrolian. 

Mark Craig, Populares (first elected) 

Alysandra Mori, Gens Zendrolian (second 
elected) 

Gail Strachan, Populares (third elected) 

Maurus Spica, Gens Sergia (fourth elected), 
Quaestor of the Northern Isle of Dawn 

Gavin Burnie, Republicans (fifth elected) 



His son Thrainkell Firestorm (born 976, C6 
of Vanya, LN) is his heir and his father's 
appointed representative in the Senate, 
where Donegal shows up very rarely. 
Thrainkell is a bit appalled by his father's 
attitude, since he thinks it will be much more 
difficult for him to obtain independence if he 
doesn't work politically for it in the Senate. 

Donegal's mother Beate Torsdatter (932, 
NW, TN) is an older sister of Emperor 
Thincol. She married Donegal's father Kerry 
Firestorm (920+975), Count of Westrourke, 
as he had fallen in love with her after several 
trips to Oceansend. Her relationship with the 
Emperor allowed Westrourke to rise as a 
regional power, from a mere County to a 
Grand-Duchy, something that is resented by 
the other rulers of the Isle of Dawn - and 
putting ideas of ambition in the heads of 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



"CiiyatiaN SeNatons 




more than one person, like Periandra Docerius 
and Julia Kendasius, for instance. 

Alysandra Mori (born 960, F7, LN) is a Gens 
Zendrolian supporter at her second term as 
elected Senator of Westrourke. There are quite 
a few of them, especially in the city of 
Westrourke, that benefited most from the rise 
to Grand-Duchy, and that are thus grateful to 
Emperor Thincol and look with favour on 
Archduke Donegal. Alysandra is a supporter 
of the Emperor, and doesn't like Donegal's 
(and Thrainkell's) ideas about a possible 
independence. After what happened with 
Stephan Karameikos, Thincol has contacted 
her and she is his person of trust in the 
Grand-Duchy. Alysandra is of mixed Alphatian 
and Thyatian descent. 

The first elected of the local Senators is Mark 
Craig (born 948, NM, CG), a Populares. A 
popular, wealthy merchant, Craig was born in 
Westrourke and has seen the great benefits 
that Westrourke reaped from their relationship 
with Thincol, and now sees two very 
dangerous threats to the stability and 
happiness of his fellow citizens - one is 
Thrainkell's desire for independence, that he 
sees is destined to incur in the wrath of the 
Torion family; the other is the Torions' attitude 
towards the Alphatians and what he perceives 
as their appetite for war on the Isle of Dawn. 
Thus he is an outspoken pacifist Populares in 
the Senate, and he spends much time in the 
capital lobbying with like-minded Sergii and 
Philosophers. 

Gail Strachan (born 971, C9 (of Diulanna), 
CG), a Populares woman from the northern 
part of the Grand-Duchy, elected for the first 
time in 997, is a popular adventuress in the 
north and at the eastern borders of the 
Grand-Duchy, where she fought against raiders 



and humanoids, and has also traveled south 
towards the Shadow Coast, where she is 
considered part of the 'dhampirs', a loose 
group of vampire-hunters. Gail is friendly 
towards Maurus Spica, with whom she has 
worked on-and-off in the last five years and 
who convinced her to try running in the last 
elections. She thinks that both Mark Craig 
and Gavin Burnie have good points about 
Westrourke's present and future status, and 
at the moment she hasn't decided on which 
side of the Westrourke independence debate 
she is. 

Maurus Spica (born 966, F9, LN), elected 
for his second term in 997, is not very 
concerned with senatorial politics, and 
prefers doing his duty as a Quaestor in 
Westrourke, West Portage and Kendach. He 
is spending increasingly more time in West 
Portage, something that the Thieves' Guild 
there doesn't like at all. To get him away from 
there, the Thieves' Guild has started paying 
brigands and humanoids along the border to 
sack and raid farms and villages, so that in 
the last two years Spica has spent a lot of time 
there with his men to prevent and respond 
to the new threat. Marcus is in love with Gail 
Strachan, although he is married with three 
children, and tries not to think about his 
sentimental troubles by overworking. 

Gavin Burnie (born 970, F3, CN) is a 
member of the Republicans. He gets many of 
his votes from Westrourke separatists, as the 
Republican Party has given its support to the 
independentist cause in the hope of breaking 
new ground and building here the first 
example of their new form of government. 
Gavin is a smith and armorer and has many 
friends among the adventurers and common 
soldiers in Westrourke. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



?Ciivie's "Cnavels 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



"Ciivie's ^navels 







I 




TTo Be CoNtiNueo] 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Antwonk Sounces aNt) Cnefcits 




ARTWORK SOURCES AND CREDITS 



Page 6 We re-wolf 

Granite the Grey Wolf by by Bill Bob Clarkson [ Creative Commons 
Public Domain License ] via Elfwood 

Page 8 Silver Purge 

Vendel era bronze plate. Place of discovery: Oland, Sweden. Depicted 
are a berserker on the right and Oden on the left [Public domain] 
via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 9 Elven Archer 

Elven archer [ Public Domain CC0 1 via Pixabay 

Page 13 Thyatian Protectorate 

Romulus, der Sieger von Acron, tragt die reiche Beute in den 
Zeustempel by lean Auguste Dominique Ingres (1780-1867) [Public 
domain] via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 17 Bust of Hadric Corser 

Elf king by Joel Cooper [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 
2.0 Generic] via Flickr 

Page 22 Map of the Ierendi and Colony Islands archipelagos during the 
5 th and 6h centuries AC 

Simone Neri, Map of the Ierendi and Colony Islands archipelagos 
during the 5 th and 6* centuries AC, used with permission by the 
author 

Page 23 Merchants and Traders 

Valdemar Atterdag holding Visby to ransom, 1361 by Carl Gustaf 
Hellqvist (1851-1890) [Public domain] via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 26 Penal Colony 

Original illustration from the novel "Mutineers of the Bounty" (Les 
Revokes de la Bounty) by Tules Verne (1879), drawn by Leon Benett 
[Public domain] via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 37 Map of Trade Routes in the Sea of Dread 

Original work by Michele C. and used with permission 

Page 38 Jewelry 

Early Medieval rings [Creative Commons Attribution 2.0 Generic] via 
Flickr 

Page 39 Map of marketable goods in the sea of Dread 

Original work by Michele C. and used with permission 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



AntwonR Sounces aNt) Cneoits 




Page 40 Hardstone Plate with Jewels 

Serpentine paten with fish Louvre MR415 [Public domain] via 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 40 Glassware 

Ancient Glassware, San Antonio Museum of Art [Creative Commons 
Attribution 2.0 Generic] via Flickr 

Page 42 Port City 

Veduta di Genova - acquatinta, 1810 circa by Ambroise-Louis Garneray 
(1783-1857) [Public domain] via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 43 Map of the gate towns and the main sea routes of the Sea of 
Dread 

Original work by Michele C, and used with permission 

Page 48 Map of the Minrothad sea lanes 

Original work by Michele C, (based on original map by Thorfin Tait) 
and used with permission 

Page 50 Dendans 

"La Baleine" painting from around 1840 [Public domain] via Wikimedia 
Commons 

Page 55 Weretiger Battles 

"The Killing of a Nue" by Yoshitoshi, 1890. From the "Thirty-six Ghosts" 

series. [Public domain] via Wikimedia Commons 
Page 57 Rafts on Dread 

Esquisse du "Radeau de la Meduse" by lean Louis Theodore Gericault 

(1791-1824) [Public domain] via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 64 Who Devours 

Herakhos of Chaos b y Deadpoolrus [ Creative Commons Attribution- 
Share Alike 3 0 License ] via DeviantArt 

Page 64 Lerisar and Kelyr do Battle 

Capture of the Pirate , Blackbeard, 1718 by lean Leon Gerome Ferris 
(1863-1930) [Public domain] via Wikimedia Commons 
Page 67 Three Starflowers 

Modified from Blue borage flowers, California by Jengod [ Creative 
Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3-0 Unported , 2.5 Generic , 2.0 
Generic and 1.0 Generic license] via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 73 Route to Pirate's Rock 

Modified from the Sea of Dread Map by Simone Neri (see Threshold 
Issue #3) 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Antwonk Sounces aNO Cneoits 




Page 76 Treant 

Modified from Costumed Ent character at Scarborough Renaissance 
Festival ( Waxahachie, Texas) by David R. Tribble [ Creative Commons Source 
Attribution-Share Alike 3-0 Unported ] via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 77 Medusa 

Medusa by Arnold Bocklin , circa 1878 [Public domain] via Wikimedia Source 

Commons 
Page 79 Dragon 

artwork for the Durian-Project of the Blender Foundation by David source 

REVOY [ Creative Commons Attribution 3-0 Unported license] via 

Wikimedia Commons 
Page 81 Map of Pirate's Rock 

Pirate's Rock, Original work by Francesco Defferrari - used by 

permission 
Page 82 Pirate Ships 

Henry Morgan Destroys the Spanish Fleet at Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela s ource 

by Alexandre-Olivier Oexmelin [Public domain] via Wikimedia 

Commons 
Page 85 Pirate Feast 

Morgan at Porto Bello by Howard Pvle (1853-1911) [Public domain] Source 

via Wikimedia Commons 
Page 96 Map: Suggested Locations for Sasserine Source 

Sasserine Locations, Original work by John Calvin - used by permission 

Page 102 The Dawn Council Banquet 

Wilhelm Cause Hofball in Wien by Wilhelm Cause (1853-1916) [Public Source 
domain] via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 105 Frogs 

Kunstformen der Natur (1904), plate 68: Batrachia [Public domain] via Source 
English Wikimedia 

Page 108 Map: Red Route c 

& 1 Source 

Red Route, Original work by John Calvin - used by permission 

Page 108 Map: Blue Route 0 

& Source 

Blue Route, Original work by John Calvin - used by permission 

Page 111 The Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan 

Picture of Temple I in Tikal, Guatemala, taken by Bruno Girin [ Creative Source 
Commons Attribution-Share Alike 2.0 Generic ] via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 123 Terror Bird 

Paraphysornis brasiliensis, a terror bird from the Early Miocene of Brazil 

Source 

[ Creative Commons Attribution 3-0 Unported ] via Wikimedia Commons 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Aittwoitlt Sounces aNt) Cnebits 



Page 146 Disk of the Three Immortals 

2012 600 g silver lunar dragon 9 sons of the dragon father dragon - Source 
Reverse [ Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3-0 Unported l via 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 157 Clockwise Spin _ 

 Source 
Clockwise Spin, Original work by John Calvin - used by permission 

Page 157 Counterclockwise Spin 

Counterclockwise Spin, Original work by John Calvin - used by Source 
permission 

Page 158 Selene's Symbol 

Symbol for Seshay-Selene, Original work by John Calvin - used by Source 
permission 

Page 160 Spindrift Sea 

Map of the Spindrift Sea, Original work by John Calvin - used by 
permission 

Page 161 Aardovai Warrior ^ 

Aardovai warrior, Original work by I. Calvin - used by permission 

Page 163 Adhuzan Montage 

Adhuzan Montage: Unseen dominators, Original work by I. Calvin - Source 
used by permission 

Page 165 Nephthisian Priestess 

Source 

Nephthisian Priestess, Original work by I. Calvin - used by permission 

Page 165 The Albhedri Islands 

Map of the Albhedri Islands, Original work by JohnCalvin - used by 
permission 

Page 168 Devilfish Source 
Devilfish, Original work by I. Calvin - used by permission 

Page 172 Vesper Elf Source 
Vesper elf, Original work by I. Calvin - used by permission 

Page 175 Underground City 

Fort interior 1025 by Zheng [Creative Commons Attribution 2.0 Source 
Generic] via Flickr 

Page 176 Map of Koskatep 2 A 

Map of Koskatep Level 2A by Francesco Defferrari [Used by permission] 

Page 179 Aysin, incorporeal undead 

Blueskin, the Pirate by Howard Pvle (1853-1911) [Public domain] via Source 
Wikimedia Commons 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



AntwonK Sounces aNt) CneOits 




Page 180 
Page 184 
Page 188 

Page 190 
Page 195 



Page 196 
Page 197 

Page 198 

Page 199 
Page 206 



Deformed Undead 

La Tentation de saint Antoine (small version) by David II Teniers Source 
[Creative Commons Attribution 2.0 Generic] via Flickr 

Skeleton 

Death as a skeleton carrying a scythe [Public domain] via Wikimedia Source 
Commons 



Duke Callastian Jowdynites 

Thomas Cole (Image taken from The first century of the Republic. 
A review of American progress), by WOOLSEY, Theodore Dwight. 
[Public domain] via Flickr 

Duchess Triella Tien Tang 

The Empress of China (Image taken from page 8 of 'Five Years in 
China; from 1842 to 1847.) [Public domain] via Flickr 

Abeeku Dwair 

Image taken from page 37 of 'Le Congo en images, raconte aux 
enfants. Histoire, habitants, mceurs, civilisation, portraits des 
explorateurs, etc' [Public domain] via Flickr 

Mitasula Nuar-Retebius 

Image taken from page 213 of 'Simples Notes de voyages. Gabon- 
Madagascar-Guyane' [Public domain] via Flickr 

Scipio Caeculo 

Image taken from The History of Mexico. Collected from Spanish 
and Mexican historians, from manuscripts, and ancient paintings of 
the Indians. [Public domain] via Flickr 

Antonius Nasica 

Image taken from page 218 of 'Histoire populaire illustree du 
Pays-de-Vaud ... Avec de nombreuses illustrations' [Public domain] 
via Flickr 

Tarik ben Nadir 

Image taken from page 517 of 'Cassell's Illustrated Universal History' 
[Public domain] via Flickr 

Archduke Donegal Firestorm 

Image taken from page 128 of 'The History of the Kingdom of 
Scotland [Public domain] via Flickr 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #4 



Next Issue 




next: issue 




Not final cover 



An unknown continent with lost worlds, a thousand 
dead empires and many powerful, rising nations. A 
land of wonderful cities and dangerous ruins, 
dinosaurs and great mammals, the original homeland 
of elves and halflings and, before them, the cradle 
of reptilian civilization. That's not the Known World, 
traveller: That's Terra Incognita. Here Be Dragons 
and much, much more. If you are brave - or fool - 
enough, join us to: 

Explore Davania 

 Anticipated contents include: 

 A Newbie guide to the continent 

 Dread and ruins, beyond the sea of Dread to the 
shores of north western Davania 

 Rakastas of Davania 

 Terrifying secrets of Vhog 

 Caducea: a gate to southern Mystara 

 Tabernacle of Gildesh 

 Nations of the Izondian Deep 

. . . and much more! 



OiODawq pRescNtS: QazF 




CoNtiNuiNq tt?e 
QazetteeR 'CuaDitioN BeyoNO 
tlje Known WoriD 

...at tlie Vaults of PaNOius 
l)ttp://www.paNt>ius.coM 






THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 



Submission QuiDeliNes 



Proposals 

All proposal submissions can be sent by mail 
to the editors at the following address 
Threshold .Mystara(a) gmail.com , and must be 
received by the proposal deadlinet. The 
Threshold editorial team will contact you 
within 7 days of the proposal deadline 
regarding the status of your proposal. 

Submission proposals should be sent inline 
in the mail, using the following subject format: 
[ISSUE#] [Proposal] <title of your article> 

The mail content should include the following: 

 Proposed article title 

 The type of article being proposed (short 
story, adventure, geographical location, 
organization, etc..) 

 A one paragraph description of what the 
article is about. 

 An estimated word count of the article 
(articles should range anywhere from 1000 
to 7000 words, depending on the type of 
article submitted) . 

Manuscripts 

Manuscripts should only be submitted after 
you proposal has been accepted by the 
Threshold editorial staff, and must be received 
by the manuscript deadlinet. When submitting 
a manuscript file, please use the following 
naming convention: 
threshold_#_your_title. < extension > 
(extension: see below for recommended file 
formats) 

and the following subject format: 

[ISSUE#] [Manuscript] <title of your article> 

The mail content should include the following: 

 The article title. 

 An attached document containing the 
article contents. 

 The final word count of the article. 



types of contributions. Please contact us to 
inquire if and how we can accommodate 
unusual contribution formats. 

The following guidelines apply to different 
types of submissions: 

Illustrations: please submit art and maps in 
lossless format (e.g., PNG). 

Articles: manuscript submissions can be sent 
by mail as plain text, doc(x) or odt, or shared 
as Google Doc. The issue editor will create a 
shared document (for each article) to allow 
the author and editorial team to work on it. 
Articles can be as short as a single page, or as 
long as 6 pages, depending on the specific 
content. The editorial team will do its best to 
accommodate the contributions, but 
especially long works may be split over 
several issues. 

Tables: Tables should be numbered (Table 
X: Name of Table), and any references in the 
article should refer to that table number (and 
not to "the table below," for example). 

Author Bios : Please include a short blurb (one 
or two sentences) biography/blurb about 
yourself for our "contributing authors" 
section. It can be serious or silly, but don't 
get too carried away with it, please. 

Other types of contributions: the editorial 
team will consider on a case by case basis 
other types of contributions. Please contact 
us to inquire if and how we can accommodate 
unusual contribution formats. 

tRefer to "Call for Contributions" (page 34) 
for next issue deadline dates. 

#Insert relevant issue number in place of '#' 



Other types of contributions: the editorial 
team will consider on a case by case basis other 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #4 




The Mystara Magazine 





RetuuN to tl7G Dneat) Sea 

The Sea of Dread - these dark tempestuous waters loom off the 
southern coast of Brun, a raging force of nature that has shaped 
many of the nations in the Known World. Many of us have set 
sail upon these waters before, featured in adventure modules 
from XI - The Isle of Dread, XSOLO - Lathan's Gold, X7 - The 
War Rafts of Kron, and many more. 

These waters are the birthplace for seafaring nations, Merchant 
Princes, empires, and pirates. Throughout time refugees have 
sought succor on the islands that dot its surface, tyrants have 
sailed armies across its waters, and adventurers have attempted 
to plumb its depths for treasure - sometimes to disastrous 
consequences . 

The fourth issue of Threshold the Mystara Magazine yet pursues 
the deep, dark, waters off the the southern coast of Brun... 
Throw caution to the wind and set sail, as we once again Return 
to the Sea of Dread. 




