Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 01084 Ruins Of Myth Drannor"
See other formats




































Advanced Dungeons] 









Myth Drodoor 

Campaign Guide 

Table of Contents 


Introduction .3 

The High History of Myth Drannor.4 

The Seizing .9 

The Encircling Wood .10 

Myth Drannor Tbday .15 

The Mythal .22 

Wild Mythal Magic T^ble .32 

The Phaerimm.35 

Phaerimm Spells. 45 

The Alhoon .61 

Alhoon Spells.64 

The Baatezu.69 

The Baelnorn.71 

Adventuring Bands.72 

The Presence of Lathander .81 

Lathanderian Priest Spells.85 

The Nagara .91 

Druth Daern .93 

The Spell-lbme of Daern .95 

Shaundakul, Rider of the Winds.99 

NPCs of Myth Drannor.102 

The Magic of Myth Drannor .109 








































CRedits: 


Design: Ed Greenwood Interior Art: Arnie Sweikel, 

Editing: Newton H. Ewell John Statema 

Proofreading: Karen S. Boomgarden, Cartography: Dennis Kauth 

Julia E. Martin Typography: Tracey Zamagne 

Cover Art: Erik Olson, Jeff Easley Production: Paul Hanchette 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS &, DRAGONS, AD&X), DRAGON, and FORGOTTEN REALMS are registered 
trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 

The TSR logo and DUNGEON MASTER are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 

All TSR characters and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks of TSR, Inc. 

Copyright (r)1993 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 

Random House and its affiliated companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc. 

Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional 
distributors. 

This work is protected by the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is 

prohibited without the express written consent of TSR, Inc. 












Welcome to the greatest treasure-house in 
all the Realms. Oh , and welcome to your 
deaths. 

The great green wyrm Athauglas, 
to The Company of the Gauntlet 
Year of the Trembling Tree 

The dragon who spoke those boastful words 
to a handful of trembling adventurers is 
dead now, its hoard gone to enrich the fami 
lies and kin of The Company of the Gauntlet. 
They prevailed where few dared go, and re 
tired rich. 

Athauglas was also wrong about the 
wealth of its treasure: this is the greatest 
treasure-house in all the Realms. Welcome 
to Myth Drannor, fabled in story and song, 
the fallen, ruined City of Beauty, where 
elves, dwarves, and men once dwelt togeth 
er in happiness and power, amid beauty. 

Although even a boxed set such as this 
hasn't space enough to detail every building 
in a city, nor list every gem and coin waiting 
to be found there, be assured (by Elminster 
the Sage, among many others) that this is in 
deed "The Great Treasure of Faerun." 

Especially if you're a wizard. Myth Dran 
nor is legendary (even on other planes, and 
in other crystal spheres in far-flung wild- 
space) as a source of mighty magic. Al 
though much of its riches have undoubtedly 
been lost down the long years since its ruin, 
much remains to be discovered-and 
enough of it has come to light in the pages of 
this book to enliven a campaign for years! 
Dungeon Masters are advised to use the 
new spells and magical items appearing 
herein with due caution: many can turn 
campaign play in new directions. 

This set can only be an introduction to 
Myth Drannor, but it contains this book (es 
sentially a DM's Guide to the city), a book of 
adventures, maps, cardsheets that detail 
some landmark locales in the city, and Mon 
strous Compendium -format sheets contain 


ing new monsters to challenge even the 
bravest adventurers. 

DMs can use this set "as is" if Myth Dran 
nor is going to be a brief adventuring-place 
or merely a backdrop for launching Player 
Characters into new adventures (perhaps to 
their surprise!) through one of its many 
gates. The city can also serve as a long-term 
campaign setting, but in that case, the DM 
must use what is given here as a beginning, 
adding ruined buildings and subterranean 
areas beneath them to give PCs room 
enough to explore, battle foes, and taste the 
riches of adventure. 

This is the big one; an adventurer who can 
convince drinkers in a tavern on the far-off 
Sword Coast or in The Shining South that 
he's walked the streets of Myth Drannor 
and lived is assured of the reputation of a 
hero. Young nobles of Waterdeep nearly fell 
over each other in the rush to swagger 
through Myth Drannor's ruins, to tell the 
ladies of it later-until they were torn apart 
or devoured within instants of their arrival, 
and the fad suddenly passed. 

An adventurer who walks down the right 
streets of Myth Drannor can gain riches or 
magic enough to make his fortune, perhaps 
even to retire and found a dynasty of adven 
turers. 

Hurry: the rush for gold has begun, and 
every adventurer in Faerun dreams of Myth 
Drannor's riches. Welcome to the city 
where, as the dragon said, death and the 
greatest treasure known in the Realms both 
wait for you! 










The High Hi'stoRf/ of: Myth Drqddor 



Here is an overview of what I could glean of 
the long history of Myth Drannor from 
Elminster. Most elven elders know it (wheth 
er their pride will let them admit all of its 
details or not), and many bards know most 
of the tale. 

Beginnings 

Myth Drannor is old-so old that no living 
being knows its beginnings. Originally it was 
an elven camp; a community of large, inhab 
ited trees around clearwater drinking 
springs and pools. Later, it was an elven 
city-a place of needle-sharp spires of grow 
ing, hollowed-out wood, linked by slim, dan 
gerous suspension spans that were either 
railless wooden arches or the even more 
precarious "running ropes" 

This city grew in size and might with the 
elven communities of the western Dra- 
gonreach, over some two thousand years, 
until humans first came to the north shores 
of The Sea of Fallen Stars. 

At that time, the city was the seat of a 
kingdom of moon elves and wood elves 
ruled by a moon elven royal family called 
the Irithyl. The city was known as Corman- 
thor, and when men reached it, they called it 
The Ibwers of Song for the music made 
there. 

Coronal (king) among the folk of Corman- 
thor in those days was one Eltargrim, a 
once-mighty warrior who had grown wise 
and gentle in his old age. He fostered knowl 
edge, craft, and mastery of magic in his city, 
and foresaw that men were a foe too numer 
ous and relentlessly ambitious and adapt 
able for his people to defeat or keep out of 
their lands-so he sought out the greatest 
wizards and wood-lords (whom some called 
rangers and druids) among them, and in 
vited them to dwell together with him in his 
kingdom. So that all strength might be gath 
ered, that none be excluded and made ene 


mies, and that the kingdom never become a 
prize to be fought over between elves and 
humans, Eltargrim invited the gnomes, the 
halflings, and even the dwarves to come to 
Cormanthor. 

The Starym and other proud and power 
ful elven families were so angered at this 
that they rebelled and left the Elven Court, 
going west to the Thunder Peaks and be 
yond, but most Cormanthan elves wel 
comed their new neighbors. The city grew 
swiftly in size and might. 

All of the peoples who came to it were ac 
customed to facing a common foe: the 
goblinkin, who bred like rabbits, and swept 
out of the Moonsea North every decade or 
so in vast hordes that swept south in a tide 
of brutal destruction, slaughtering or en 
slaving all in their path until they were driv 
en aside or scattered by all the magic that 
could be mustered against them. Corman 
thor offered for the first time a stronghold 
to shelter the weakest folk, where they 
could stand together-dwarf, elf, gnome, 
halfling, and man-shoulder to shoulder 
against the ore raiders. 

It also gave the ores a hated goal, some 
thing that must be smashed. They came 
down on the city in their thousands, and al 
most destroyed it: only the bravery of the 
human and dwarven stalwarts, fighting in 
the very streets of the invaded city, saved all 
from slaughter. 

A sickened, horrified Eltargrim resolved 
that the blood of war would never come to 
the very streets of his city again. He sensed 
that the bold eagerness of human wizards 
could be mated to the sophisticated skill of 
elven mages, and produce something that 
might defend the city-a great work of mag 
ic that would surround and protect the city 
at all times. 

For almost a dozen years the wizards ex 
perimented and then labored together, 
weaving spell upon spell, guided by hints 









Tbe High Historw/ 04: Mj/tb Drqdqor 



and legends out the shadowy past of the 
elves of long ago, creating something splen 
did with a magical life of its own: a mythal. 

Mytb Droddor 

When the mythal was laid; in the Year of 
Soaring Stars (261 DR); Cormanthor was re 
named Myth Drannor ; and its age of great 
ness truly began. Note that Elminster's 
claims to be variously "a little over" five hun 
dred or six hundred years old ring a little 
hollow if he truly helped in the weaving of 
the mythal-but some quiet words from 
Laeral and Khelben Blackstaff lead me to be 
lieve that Elminster has from time to time 
fallen afoul of hostile magic and slept; or 
been imprisoned; while ages passed and he 
knew them not-so perhaps he counts only 
those years he's known, or perhaps he's 
something greater than an old, fussy wiz 
ard. 

Men from the overcrowded lands of the 
Vilhon Reach came in numbers, seeking the 
riches of the Moonsea North (drawn by the 
obvious wealth and works in metals and 
gems of the dwarves who then held the Vast, 
or eastern shore of the Dragonreach). 

Seeking to slow their destruction of the 
forest, Eltargrim invited them to Myth 
Drannor to trade and settle, and join in the 
growing greatness of The City of Might. 

Over the decades and centuries that fol 
lowed, Myth Drannor grew in beauty, hap 
piness, and luxury to the greatest height 
known in all Faerun. The City of Bards, 
some called it, or the City of Song, or the 
City of Beauty. 

Inventors and craftsmen were welcome in 
Myth Drannor as in all cities-but more 
than simply the makers of coins were re 
vered. Bards, tellers-of-tales, artists, histo 
rians, alchemists, mages, and seekers after 
knowledge of all sorts were welcomed and 
encouraged. 


Songs of lasting fame began to come out of 
Myth Drannor, and its wizards grew in 
might to rival the great human kingdom of 
magic, Netheril. This rivalry several times 
spilled over into open war-magical skir 
mishes known as the Crown against Scepter 
wars. (One of Myth Drannor's names was 
the City of Crowns, because many magical 
items crafted in the city took the form of 
crowns and diadems, whereas the sorcerers 
of Netheril tended to use scepters.) 

Cloaked by the might of this magic, Myth 
Drannor easily destroyed horde after horde 
of ores, and grew in fame and power. Its 
jewelers were matchless, and its musical in 
struments (made by elven artificers, notably 
the families Lharithlyn, Shraiee, and Tlan- 
bourn) stood unsurpassed in all Faerun. 
Spectacles of dance and song, theatrical 
masques led by skilled bards, became 
frequent-and folk began to travel to Myth 
Drannor just to see these marvels. 

Myth Drannor earned the name "the Tbw- 
ers of Beauty" among bards, and as the 
years passed and happiness reigned over all, 
the elves gave it the name "the City of Love," 
out of joy that the races of Faerun could live 
together in peace and contentment. 

Yet the gods grow restless, and all things 
change under their hands. Greatness is al 
ways hurled down in the end. So it was with 
Myth Drannor, as with all great cities. 

Tbe Dask 

Myth Drannor reached its height in the Year 
of the Bloody Hisk (661 DR). At the end of 
that year the ancient Lord Eltargrim died, 
and there was great mourning. The Dusk 
had begun-all at once, evil human wizards 
who had come to the city (from what is now 
Thay) used magic to slay and work in 
trigues, and the goblinkin rose again to at 
tack the wooded verges of Myth Drannor. 
The embattled city found it necessary to 










The High HistORc/ op Myth Drqiqiqor 




elect a Captain, or warleader, to direct its 
defenses against the constant forays of ores 
and the emboldened trolls, bugbears, gnolls, 
and flind. 

Not even the exact year of Myth Drannor's 
fall is remembered: too many perished to 
keep the Roll of Years straight in the fledg 
ling Dales. Elminster was off adventuring on 
other planes, as were many of his young and 
hungry-for-glory fellow mages. 

It is clear that over six hundred years ago, 
sometime after the Year of the Lost Lance 
(712), a power in the far north (possibly an 
evil human archmage, more probably a 
great flind or ore shaman) summoned yugo- 
loths in numbers to aid them in an assault 
on the rich human lands of the Dra- 
gonreach. 

Whatever befell, the greatest of the yugo- 
loths, the nycaloths Aulmpiter, Gaulguth, 
and Malimshaer, broke free of the mastery 
of their summoner and by brutal means 
emptied the flind and ore holds of every last 
individual, whipping them into a great Ar 
my of Darkness that swept south like a de 
stroying wind. In their thousands they 
perished, in headlong attack upon every 
monster of the Moonsea North-and still, 
driven by the merciless nycaloths, they 
swept on. 

Captain of Myth Drannor in that time was 
one Fflar. He was a man of mighty valor and 
skill in battle, yet quiet-spoken, and seldom 
seen. When word came to him that a horde 
more terrible than any known before was 
slaughtering its way through the beast-men 
(ogres) of Thar, the Captain roused the city 
to arms, and set a watchpost north of the 
city, at a place in the woods called Helm- 
grove (the exact location of that spot is now 
lost). 

There the greatest warriors of the city 
gathered to await the coming of doom, in a 
company called the Shield of Myth Drannor. 
They did not wait long. 


Tbe Fall 

The Army of Darkness came down upon 
them, and red war raged through the trees. 
In endless numbers the ores, hobgoblins, 
and worse came, overwhelming even the 
most valiant warriors-until the Shield was 
no more, every warrior slain but a few who 
fled to bring warning. 

South of Helmgrove there was a burned 
area of woods, the scar of a forest fire, 
where Myth Drannan mages were wont to 
hurl destructive spells in practice. At this 
Burnt Ridge many wizards of the city made 
their stand, and as the Army of Darkness 
advanced, fell magic struck them down in 
their hundreds. 

Yet for every hundred who fell, another 
thousand still came on-and in the end the 
wizards, exhausted, fled the field, and the 
Army swept on. 

Fflar had begun a hasty evacuation of the 
city, emptying it of those too weak too fight, 
or too brilliant to be risked. There was time 
only for each to snatch up what they could 
carry and run, ere the ores and yugoloths 
were howling up against the last defenders 
of the city, the oldest warriors. 

Fflar fought among them, wielding a great 
blade that burned with a blue fire in battle. 
Sages argue about the true name and 
powers of this magical sword, but strong 
and persistent legend holds that it lies in the 
city still, in Fflar's bony grasp, where he fell 
at last atop a mound of slain yugoloths; none 
of the dark army dared approach it. 

The Army of Darkness lost thousands 
upon thousands that day-but they were 
still numerous enough to obliterate those 
few who held the city against them, and 
rampaged through its streets, burning, pil 
laging, looting, and slaying those too slow or 
stubborn to have fled. 

Some of those loath to leave were arch 
mages still bent upon their research-and 














when their towers were invaded, the magi 
cal explosions with which they defended 
themselves were fearsome, and their dying 
curses worse. 

Yugoloths fled whimpering, some of their 
limbs turned to rubbery, slithering, uncon 
trollable things. Others shrieked ceaselessly, 
wracked by phantom pains that would not 
subside. Still others devoured what they 
could reach of their own bodies, howling in 
madness. Guardian golems and other fear 
some sentinels tore ores and yugoloths alike 
limb from limb-and more than one tower 
blew apart, raining down those who had in 
vaded it in showers of gore. Much of the ar 
eas of widespread destruction seen in the 
ruins today were created in those terrible 
days when the last wizard-holds in the city 
were taken. 

Yet in the end, Myth Drannor fell, and was 
ruined. What was left of the Army of Dark 
ness broke up into small raiding bands, and 
hungrily pursued the fleeing folk of the city 
to the very coast of Sembia, hunting down 
and slaying many, ere the armsmen of the 
coastal cities scattered or drove back the 
raiders. 

The few survivors from The City of Beau 
ty brought tales of terror with them-and 
Myth Drannor was left empty, to grow its 
own haunted reputation with the passing 
years. 

Only the elves who dwelt in the woods 
nearby dared venture near the shattered 
city. They rose up in arms to rid their forest 
home of the many wandering bands of ores, 
flind, gnolls, and bugbears who had been 
part of the Army of Darkness-and for two 
summers hunted them relentlessly, until all 
the woods were cleansed. This work took all 
the magic they had, and most of their best 
warrior blood. 


The GaaRdiansbip 
op the Eloes 

Having paid such a high blood price for re 
claiming their land, the elves were not eager 
to welcome intruders who might bring dan 
ger anew-and as human and halfling brig 
ands grew more numerous, the elves closed 
the woods to those not of their kin, and 
swallowed up Myth Drannor behind a cloak 
of elven magic-and the seeking points of el- 
ven arrows. Myth Drannor became lost to 
men, and its legends grew. 

The Elven Court slowly grew strong 
again, and held its own as men pushed past, 
settling the Dales and then the Moonsea 
shores. Their numbers and ready-armed 
hold on the territory between the lawless 
northern wastes and the Elven Court woods 
(plus the emptying of ore holds that had cre 
ated the Army of Darkness) ensured that so 
great a horde would never come south 
again-and never bring war to Myth Dran 
nor. 

So it was, and for many years none but 
elves were welcome in what had become 
known as the Woods of Cormanthyr. The 
elves kept Myth Drannor out of the hands of 
all but dragons seeking lairs (whom they 
deemed fitting guardians). The elves them 
selves stayed out of the ruins, holding them 
sacred to the memory of the time when the 
races dwelt together in peace-and beasts 
left behind by the Army, or who had been 
freed from the cages of collectors and ex 
perimenting wizards, or who had come to 
the ruins through no-longer-guarded gates 
from elsewhere, all made entry to the city 
deadly to the few bold adventurers who 
used magic to elude the elven guard and 
reach the city. 

Their fates added to the fell reputation of 
the ruined city, and kept the treasure hunts 
few. It seemed that Myth Drannor would 








The High His tone/ of Myth D rzannorz 


~fr ; : • WBMMMiMM M l S. 


sleep forever cloaked in the forest; until less 
than twenty winters ago, when the elves of 
the Elven Court decided that the human 
hold on the region, with the gathering evils 
in Zhentil Keep, Mulmaster, Vaasa, and Scar- 
dale, and the soaring population and hunger 
for wood (as a fuel and building material) of 
rich Sembia, made their own survival ulti 
mately impossible-and The Flight of the 
Elves began. 

The RetReat 

In the Year of Moonfall (1344 DR), the High 
Council of wise and elder elves, who ruled 
the Elven Court, reached the fateful deci 
sion to abandon their woodland realm after 
over five hundred summers of 
deliberation-and began to empty their 
realm, sending their people to fabled Ever- 
meet, the island realm and refuge of the 
elves. 

The communities of the T&ngletrees and 
Semberhome were emptied first, and the 
elves went quietly, using the ancient gates 
they knew to be in Myth Drannor to reach 
Ardeepforest (whose own moon elven folk 
had already taken ship west to Evermeet) 
and Undermountain beneath Waterdeep, 
where Mirt the Moneylender is now known 
to have quietly made his ships available by 
night, to let the elves slip quietly out of 
Faerun to Mintarn and other harbors off the 
Sword Coast, where the ships of Evermeet 
met them, and took them on to a new life, 
free of the aggressiveness of humankind. 

Some few elves remained behind, both to 
hide many of the disappearances and to con 
tinue to guard the realm as the fleeing elves 
traveled. These included the wise and ur 
bane elven ambassador to the Dragonreach 
courts, Luvon Greencloak, and war bands 
(such as the one led by Alok Silverspear) 
skilled in archery and forest fighting. 

Some elves who loved Faerun too much to 


leave it still dwell in the Elvenwood (the for 
est from the Thunder Peaks eastward to the 
Dragonreach, once ruled by the Elven 
Court), or have taken gates (some of which 
are spoken of in the novel Elfshadow ) to join 
the elven realm of Evereska, which is in 
need of warriors against the evils around it, 
and to help it hold its new colony in the 
Greycloak Hills. 

Yet the cloak of elven might that so long 
kept the world away from fabled Myth 
Drannor is gone-and the world has begun 
to realize it. The Time of the Seizing is upon 
us, when the riches of Myth Drannor-gems 
and coins enough to buy several kingdoms, 
to be sure, but above all magic to rule all 
Faerun, were it all to fall into one hand 
skilled enough to wield it-will be taken 
from the slumbering ruins, and the face of 
Faerun will be changed forever. 
















The most daring (or desperate) adventurers 
have always hungered for the riches of 
Myth Drannor, and over the years, there 
has been no shortage of wealthy sponsors in 
Sembia, and evil mages in Zhentil Keep, 
Mulmaster, Calaunt, Westgate, and Thay-as 
well as lone wizards in keeps and towers all 
across Faerun-to goad or spur them on. 
Myth Drannor has been invaded again and 
again .. . and has dealt swift, cruel deaths to 
most visitors. 

When the agents of the High Imperceptor 
succeeded in opening a gate in Myth Dran 
nor (see the chapter on "The Baatezu" in this 
sourcebook), powerful folk all over the Dra- 
gonreach soon knew of it-and the race to 
seize the gold of Myth Drannor was on. Folk 
have come to call it "The Seizing," as they 
wait to see what power-and new terror- 
will come out of Myth Drannor. 

These days, every hedge-wizard of the In 
ner Sea Realms, and every landless sword- 
swinger seeking to carve out fortune and 
fame, seems to have a stab at Myth Drannor. 

Almost every tenday, despite the avowed 
guardianship of the Knights of Myth Dran 
nor, an adventuring band plunges into the 
ruins-most never to be seen again, al 
though a lucky few have escaped with their 
lives, or even treasure: the Myth Drannan 
magic whispered of in all those legends does 
exist! 

A partial list of those who have gone to 
Myth Drannor follows. Beginning in the 
Year of the Worm, we know that the Compa 
ny of the Black Buckler (a mercenary band 
usually found guarding caravans or the per 
sons of rich merchants in Sembia) went in, 
at the behest of a mysterious ring of inves 
tors based in Selgaunt. They've not been 
seen since. 

A bare tenday after the Bucklers rode into 
the woods, a nameless band of thieves and 
hireswords from Westgate landed at 
Yhaunn, and set out across country into the 


woods, followed shortly by a wizard-led 
band from Hillsfar. There is a strong possi 
bility that these two groups encountered 
each other and fought (or one ambushed the 
other, with the same bloody results). 

Then the floodgates opened, and Myth 
Drannor swallowed up these in quick suc 
cession: the Men of the Scarlet Scimitar (an 
able and sinister group of magic-laden ad 
venturers from Calimshan); the Women of 
the Wind (an all-female adventuring group 
out of Impiltur); the Blue Fist (a boisterous, 
fun-loving group of aging warriors, former 
ly of the Sword Coast and late of Westgate); 
the Company of the Purple Cloak (a large 
and well-appointed group of male warriors 
and female wizards who are widely-and, 
Elminster says, correctly-rumored in Saer- 
loon, where they first appeared together, to 
be agents of the Cult of the Dragon); the 
Glass Goblet (a group of bored but well- 
heeled younger sons of the Waterdhavian 
nobility); the Vengeful Blade (an evil, ruth 
less band of Thavian ex-slavers and rene 
gades from Aglarond known for their 
successful tomb-thefts and brigand raids in 
lawless Tfethyr-some of this group escaped 
Myth Drannor's perils, and told the world of 
the baatezu and other waiting dangers); and 
the Company of Cathlander (a band of sea 
soned adventurers named for its sponsor, a 
wizard of the Vilhon Reach). 

More adventurers converge on Myth 
Drannor every today, and many have doubt 
less escaped this list. 


"T 




A 

1 

*: 

9 

'i 

E 


Jj 













The forest around Myth Drannor is a dim, 
eerie place of huge trees, tangled vines, and 
deep shade, studded with thickets of under 
growth wherever a forest giant has fallen, 
to admit sunlight to the forest floor. 

The ground is damp. Many small springs 
rise in the area, running across the rocky, 
root-strewn forest floor in little rills, to join 
the plentiful streams. In all cases, the water 
is cold, clear, and safe to drink. The forest 
life is abundant, and the trees around Myth 
Drannor are mainly oak, maple, blueleaf, 
duskwood, shadowtop, silverbark, and 
weirwood (see the end of this chapter for 
more on these trees). The land rises and falls 
in small hillocks and moss-cloaked rocky 
outcrops, and this, plus the deep gloom, lim 
its vision to 90' or less in most places. 

This vast woodland has always been dan 
gerous to those not friendly to, and wise in 
the way of, forests-but since the elven Re 
treat, many monsters have come into it (or 
out of Myth Drannor!), or bred unchecked, 
to make it more deadly. 

The worst perils of the Elvenwood are the 
brigands, adventuring bands, and raiding 
bands of ores, bugbears, and the like who 
have been drawn to Myth Drannor. Unwary 
folk eager to reach Myth Drannor, and sore 
ly wounded survivors fleeing out have alike 
run afoul of brigand traps and ambushes. 
(Parties too weak to go on may receive 
unlooked-for-aid in the form of NPC rein 
forcements: frightened survivors of adven 
turing bands who have tried their luck in 
Myth Drannor, and found it bad.) 

Wo&avo oob 

Encounters 

When an encounter is called for in the 
Elvenwood, roll another die. An even result 
means a "mammal, small" appears (chip 
munks, ferrets, foxes, squirrels, and the 


like: food for foraging PCs). 

An odd numbered result is a monster en 
counter. There is a 5 in 8 chance that it is 
with an adventuring band, a group of out 
laws or brigands, or a raiding force of ores 
or their kin. 

Otherwise, use the tables that follow, 
which can cover the entire Elvenwood. The 
"Known Woods T&ble" should be used in the 
woodlands between Shadowdale and Mistle- 
dale, along the roads that cut through the 
Elvenwood (not including Halfaxe Thail), and 
around the Pool of Yeven. Use the "Wild 
Woods Thble" everywhere else. Monsters 
marked with an asterisk can fly. 

The "Aquatic Monsters T&ble" covers the 
River Ashaba (no monsters are found in the 
Pool of Yeven). For monster statistics, DMs 
are referred to the Monstrous Compendium 
volumes; if a particular monster is not avail 
able to the DM, substitute another. Monsters 
not in a Compendium as of this writing ap 
pear with the abbreviations of products 
they have appeared in, in parentheses. Crea 
ture treasure (if any) is left to the DM. 

Kdoc on Woods 

d20 

roll Encounter 

01 ld20 treants or ld6 dryads 
02 2d4 trolls or 5d4 pixies 

03 ld4 giant (poisonous) snakes 
04 ld6 lycanthropes (wereboars) 

05 2dl0 large spiders or ld6 skunks 
06 2dl2 giant centipedes or stag bee 
tles 

07 4d4. wiJ/i or \ wife 

08 2d 10 large spiders or wolves 
09 4d4 stirges* or ld4 +1 owlbears 

10 ld6 wild boars or ldl2 firestars* 

11 2d4 trolls or ld8 living webs 

12 4d4 stirges* or ld8 dopplegangers 

13 ld4 +1 owlbears or giant ants 

14 bears (ld3 black or ld6 brown) 



> 

l 10 
















1 v¥t;v~ 






















The EociRcifog Wood 


12 2dl0 large spiders or wolves 

13 6d6 sprites* or 2d8 owlbears 

14 5d6 stirges* or 2d8 owlbears 

15 ld4 phase spiders 

16 ld8 giant weasels 

17 4d4 moon elves (archers) 

18 1 hunting spider* (FOR2) 

19 1 azmyth* (FOR2) 

20 Special (see below) 

Special: DM's choice, or roll ldlO: 

01 ld4 wyverns* or tressym* (FRQ1) 

02 3d4 bombardier beetles 

03 1 greenhag or deepspawn (FR11) 

04 1 will-o-wisp or nyth* (FA1) 

05 ld20 treants or ld4 +1 giant badg 
ers 

06 1 mimic (common or killer) 

07 ld2 porcupines (any of the 3 types) 
08 1 zygraat* or yellow musk creeper 

(plus zombies: 2d6 flowers, half that 
number of zombies) or ldlO pegasi 
or lOdlO sprites or (dusk only) talk 
ing owl 

09 1 druid (for level, roll 2d4 and add 8: 

note that hierophants are possible; 
if result equals grand or great 
druid, re-roll; note also that under 
lings may be present) or beholder* 
or sylph* or swanmay 
10 2 warring bands (e.g. kobolds vs. 

bandits, moon elves vs. ores) meet, 
with the PCs caught in the middle 

Aqaatfc EncoaoteR Table 

dl2 

roll Encounter 

01 ld6 throat leeches 
02 ld4 giant crayfish 
03 1 giant catfish 

04 ld6 giant gar 
05 5d8 giant frogs or 1 skuz 

06 ld4 giant lampreys 
07 ld8 giant pikes 


08 1 skuz or ld3 water weirds 

09 ld6 freshwater scrags (trolls) 

10 5d8 giant frogs 

11 ldlO giant water spiders 

12 ld4 water nagas or carp dragons or 
ld2 river dragons or 2dl2 merrow 

Bfrigaod EncoanteRS 

These outlaw bands are 3dl2 in number, 
and are typically led by an F6 (possible 
names: Thanshar Blackbridle; Ranthryn 
Ironstone; and Ardragon "the Bold") who is 
THAC0 15 and has 40 hp. 

These rogues are AC 7 (leather armor and 
Dex bonus); MV 12; T2s; hp 12 (each); 
THAC0 20; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type 
(broad sword: 2d4, 2 daggers each: ld4, 3 
spears each: ld6); ML 13; AL NE; MCI (un 
der "Men"). 

They hurl spears and axes from thickets 
and overhanging branches, and then charge 
to the attack. Thin cords are strung across 
the trail in front of their attack to trip flee 
ing horses (automatic spill of rider with ld4 
points of falling damage, 3d4 to the mount). 

Brigand and ore-band forest holds may 
center around springs of safe drinking wa 
ter, caves, rock clefts and overhangs, or 
dense thickets. Treasure amounts are left to 
the DM, but are never large. Brigand posses 
sions almost always include food and cloth 
ing (used for disguises) seized from victims. 

If such holds are well established, they 
typically have defenses such as: 

Deadfall: A large tree-limb, rock balanced 
between two high branches, or entire tree is 
pulled rapidly down on the victim by means 
of thin wires or cords linked to a trigger 
(usually a tangle or circle of wire walked on 
by the victim). The wires are concealed by 
vines. 

Falling objects strike at THAC0 5. Any at 
tack roll that misses by only 1 point is a 










The Encirzcling Wood 




glancing blow, and does ld4 +1 damage. A 
direct hit does 3d6 to 5d6 damage (depend 
ing on the size and nature of the object), and 
stuns the victim (no voluntary activities pos 
sible) for the following round. 

Pitfall: These are pits, 20 feet square and 
15 feet deep. Their bottoms are lined with 
wooden spikes, and they are concealed by 
branch-and-vine latticework "tops." Each 
top is covered with dirt, grass clumps, moss, 
dead leaves, and the like until it looks natu 
ral. 

Any weight of more than 30 pounds will 
break the "top," spilling anyone doing so into 
the pit, for ld8 falling damage. Roll a second 
d8 to determine how many spikes each be 
ing falls onto. Each spike landed on does ld6 
points of damage. If desired, roll another d6 
to see if anything lives in the pit. A roll of 1 
or 2 means that a giant spider, centipede, 
stirge, carrion crawler, or other monster of 
the DM's choice lurks at the bottom. 

No statistics for such creatures are given 
here. If a DM does use such extra menaces, 
beings falling into the pit get involuntary at 
tack rolls. If they "hit" the beast in the pit (or 
a companion already there), the struck crea 
ture suffers the same ld8 points of damage 
as the being falling in, and the new arrival's 
d6 roll for spikes is modified by -2. 
Spring-Noose: These thin, vine-concealed 
wires are set to snap tight when anything 
jostles them off their holding hooks, yanking 
anything they catch up into the air (as a rock 
on the other end of the line descends from 
the tree the noose is hung in). 

The target being must make a strength 
check, dexterity check, and intelligence 
check. If any of these fails, the noose catches 
the character around head, throat, or limb, 
and pulls. Caught characters drop whatever 
they are carrying (unless a second strength 
check is successful), are pulled into the air, 
and suffer ld4 + 2 points of damage. 

Every round thereafter, they suffer ld4 


points of constriction damage (add +3 hp/ 
round strangulation damage if the noose is 
around the character's throat). The wires 
are ACS; 7 hp of damage must be done to 
any one spot before a wire is cut. 

All three of these trap-types can be fitted 
with noisemakers to raise an alarm; in this 
case, the falling weights of the spring-nooses 
are festooned with tied-on scraps of metal, 
which clang wildly as the weight falls. 

Trzees of the 
El oeo&Dood 

From end to end of its vast territory, the 
Elvenwood holds almost all deciduous and 
coniferous varieties of trees known in the 
northern Realms. Of the sorts plentiful 
around Myth Drannor, a few species de 
serve note. If a band of adventurers can get 
certain types of cut timber to a town on a 
caravan-road, they can typically sell them 
for 4 to 9 gp/log (depending on type, size, 
condition, and current demand). That price 
can go up by 6 gp or more if the PCs get 
them to a large city and sell them directly to 
a woodcarver or fine carpenter. 

Blueleaf trees grow together in thick 
stands. They may reach 40' in height, but 
their trunks are rarely more than eight 
inches in diameter. These delicate needle 
like trees are supple, bending rather than 
breaking in high winds and under heavy ice. 
When used as firewood, they yield beautiful 
blue flames. Their sap and crushed leaves 
(which are of a vivid gleaming hue we might 
call "electric blue") yield a dye of the same 
color that is much used in making cloaks in 
the North. 

Duskwood trees grow straight and tall, 
reaching 60' in height. Their trunks are 
dark, smooth, and bare; all of their tiny 
branches are in a crown at the top of each 
tree. Their name comes from the dark, eerie 











appearance of stands of duskwoods. 

Under their black bark is smoky grey 
wood that is as hard as iron, and resistant to 
fire (smoldering rather than blazing, so that 
they survive many forest fires and the axes 
of woodcutters seeking firewood). Most 
mast spars and building beams in the Dra- 
gonreach lands are duskwood. 

Shadowtop trees are the soaring giants of 
Faerunian forests. In warm, damp climes, 
they can grow two feet a year, reaching 90' 
or more with massive pleat-ridged trunks 
flaring up to 20' in diameter at the base. The 
tree's name comes from the dense clusters 
of feathery, irregular leaves at its top; it typi 
cally has few or no lower branches. Sha 
dowtop leaves are copper-colored 
underneath, and dark green on top (fading 
to copper in fall). 

The wood is tough, but tends to split down 
its length under stress, into a splayed mass 
of fibers. This makes it useless for carving 
or structural work, but valuable in rope- 
making (the fibers are very strong). Shadow- 
wood burns slowly (it usually won't ignite 
unless added to an already-blazing fire of 
other woods) but cleanly, with little smoke 
and a very hot fire. This makes it ideal for 
cooking. Five wagons are typically required 
to carry off a felled, sectioned shadowtop; if, 
a woodcutter has fewer, a large remnant is 
left behind for later trips. By tradition, trav 
elers can usually cut enough for one night's 
fire from this without earning anyone's an 
ger. 

Silverbark trees flourish in wet ground 
such as the deeper ravines in the woods 
near Myth Drannor. They have thin trunks 
three to four inches in diameter, are 
straight, and seldom grow more than a 
dozen feet tail-serving the poor as poles, 
staves, and (with whittled points hardened 
in a slow fire) spears or battle-stakes. 

Silverbark is plentiful and grows in thick 
ets. Its silvery bark crumbles and pulls loose 


easily; an exposed tree dries out thoroughly, 
becoming brittle and weak, unsuitable for 
lance shafts, fence rails, or building work, 
within a year. Its large, oval, pointed-tipped 
leaves are deep red (purple at the roots), 
waxy, and durable; they are sometimes used 
to wrap small game, or to carry twigs. 

Weirwood is rare and highly prized-and 
are actively protected by dryads, hamadry 
ads, treants, druids, and rangers. They 
closely resemble oaks in appearance, and if 
undisturbed grow into huge, many- 
branched forest giants. 

Weirwood is resilient and durable, giving 
a warm, clear sound to lutes, harps, and oth 
er musical instruments made of it. Only 
magical fire can ignite or burn weirwood; it 
can be tossed into blazing buildings and 
emerge unharmed. Any magical radiance 
that comes into contact with weirwood 
evokes a faint faerie fire- like glow, that ema 
nates from the wood for ld4 +1 rounds. 











Myth Drqodor Today 




Since the withdrawal of the elves from the 
woods surrounding Myth Drannor, the ru 
ined city has lain open for exploration-for 
those who can fight off erinyes and worse, 
that is! Winged baatezu have made even fly 
ing over the city perilous-and brought al 
most certain death to those who come 
armed only with swords and a few spells, 
hoping to find the riches of the city un 
guarded. 

Elminster is not one of those. Since the de 
struction of the main gate linking Myth 
Drannor to Avernus in the Nine Hells, the 
baatezu have grown far fewer. This heroic 
feat was accomplished by the Knights of 
Myth Drannor (see the Cyclopedia of the 
Realms , in the original FORGOTTEN 
REALMS(r) Campaign Set; the gate was cre 
ated by priests of Bane). No sooner were 
they done, then another evil power, Tyran- 
thraxus, established itself in the ruins (see 
module FRC2, Curse of the Azure Bonds). 
Since its overthrow, the Old Mage has made 
several flying visits to ruined Myth Drannor. 

He reports that the ruins are hardly any 
less dangerous than when they were over 
run by baatezu. "Ye can scarce stroll forty 
paces without happening on another brig 
and ambush-oh, excuse me; I believe ye'd 
call them 'adventurers.' Whate'er ye call 
them, the very air stinks of their greed." 

Yet, as a guide to those interested in visit 
ing the ruins, Elminster has agreed to pro 
vide a brief overview of what visitors will 
find of the city today. (Important buildings 
described here are shown in more detail on 
the cardsheets of this boxed set.) 

In winter, the ruins are warmer than the 
rest of the Dalelands (thanks to the mythal, 
which keeps things above freezing). As a re 
sult, trees and brush grow much faster than 
in the forest around, death by exposure is 
unknown, and the temperature differences 
keep the edges of the ruin shrouded in con 
cealing mists. Snowfall in the ruins melts as 


it lands, and runs into a thousand flower- 
bowls, fountains, and depressions-where 
inhabitants can readily drink it. 

In summer, the trees and gardens that 
have flourished in Myth Drannor since its 
founding run riot, bursting roofs and walls 
with their growth. Season after season, this 
growth has gone on, reducing much of the 
city to rubble. Young shadowtop trees are 
everywhere, rising up from a tangle of 
gooseberry bushes, rockclinger vines, and 
shrubs. 

Elminster warns explorers that Myth 
Drannor is linked to other locations in 
Faerun by almost a thousand permanent 
gates. Some of the best-known of these are 
described elsewhere in this book, but even 
when Myth Drannor's pride was at its 
height, no being knew where all of these 
portals were or where they led to. The ruin 
of the city has left some of them "in the 
open," invisible snares waiting to whisk the 
unsuspecting traveler elsewhere. 

The Cityscape 

Myth Drannor, seen from the air, is roughly 
the shape of an axe-head, with the flaring 
blade to the west, and the narrow back run 
ning to the southeast. At the western edge 
of the city is a large, lush rolling meadow 
(magic keeps trees from growing over this 
area) known as "the Westfields " It was once 
a visitors' camping area and paddock, and a 
livestock pasture for city-owned beasts. To 
the north of it is a small glade, the Burial 
Glen, a cemetery. 

Through the center of the city, where the 
axe-handle would be, runs a stream. TWo 
small streams join just north of the city, and 
(thanks to Tilver's Dam, built by the famous 
human engineer for whom Tilverton and 
Tilver's Gap are named) widen into an orna 
mental lake south of the city, known as Gly- 
ryrryl's Pool (for the half-elven mage whose 
















magic sculpted it). Tb the east of the pool, 
along the southern edge of the city, lies an 
other open field, ' the Meadow," once used 
for strolling, picnics, and games. Tbday, 
Elminster warns, much of this open space is 
a magic-dead area. 

North of the pool is a great area of de 
struction, where not a building still stands, 
and the land is covered with hills: heaps of 
stone rubble. Here, much of the central city 
was destroyed when Myth Drannor was 
overrun by the nycaloth-led armies of evil. 
The heroes of the city made their last stand 
in this area, and the slaughter was great. 
Much magic was hurled, and it laid waste to 
this area. Mimics like to take stony shapes 
and lurk here, to prey on passing creatures. 

Rising above this tumbled desolation of 
sliding stone rubble to the northwest are 
the dark, unbreached walls of Castle Cor- 
manthor, the citadel around which the city 
was built. This many-spired castle still looks 
like the beautiful elven stronghold it once 
was, but for many years it has housed a clan 
of gargoyles. In recent times, when baatezu 
were let into the city through gates, cornu - 
gons slew the leaders of this winged tribe, 
and assumed control. Their brutal rule en 
abled some of the gargoyles to survive the 
whims of the baatezu (who liked to tear 
apart or devour alive gargoyles they 
caught), and over forty of the fell creatures 
still lair here, flying over the ruins to hunt. 

Tb the south, across a still clear flagstone- 
paved street from the Castle rises a much 
smaller, domed building. It is the Speculum, 
a hall where wizards once demonstrated 
new spells, took on apprentices, came seek 
ing apprenticeship, and purchased (or ad 
vertised their need for) exotic spell 
components. Now choked with rubble from 
its collapsed ceiling, this dust-choked ruin is 
notable as the site of a "safehold," or hidden 
extra-dimensional apartment, believed to 
have been established by the archmage 


Alaghlar of the Horns. There is a hole in the 
flagstone floor of the Speculum's vast cen 
tral hall; if one inserts the correct magical 
key, the portal entrance to this hidey-hole 
appears in midair nearby. 

South of the Speculum, across another 
street, stands a building almost as large as 
the Castle. From the air, it is roughly trian 
gular in shape, and is massively built (by 
long-ago dwarven master craftsmen) of 
stone with arched windows and gargoyle 
like rainspout figures. This is Tyrintar's 
Hall, a large banquet hall and meeting-house 
named for the first captain of the city, a pal 
adin whose fame as a noble battle-hero was 
once known across Faerun. Its huge central 
hall is said to retain traces of its former 
greatness-but the jewelled guests who sit 
at the long tables are now undead! Multi 
layered spells were laid in the hall to pro 
vide background and dance music (for use 
when musicians were scarce), and to link 
this with lighting that continuously altered 
to suit the tempo and mood of the music. 
From time to time, something triggers this 
old magic, and the eerie lights and sounds of 
long-ago merriment spill out of the hall once 
again. It is said that casting a legend lore 
spell here can be an overwhelming experi 
ence for all but the most powerful arch- 
mages. 

Tb the west of the hall, beyond a largely- 
intact block of tall, many-balconied apart 
ments and private homes (most rise four 
floors above the street, and retain frag 
ments of their once-spectacular painted 
glass windows and lifelike exterior relief 
carvings), is another sprawling building, 
consisting of four wings linking turrets to a 
central core. This is the Irithlium, once a fa 
bled school of wizardry. 

Apprentices by the dozens perished here, 
in the titanic battle in which Myth Drannor 
fell. The roof erupted into fragments in sev 
eral places; fires raged in some corridors, 



E 














Mytb Dnannorz Today 




and some chambers collapsed entirely; but 
the outer walls stand largely intact; and 
many mages dream of unearthing mighty el 
der magics here. They'll find it largely strip 
ped bare ; but even the Phaerimm haven't 
finished exploring the many underground 
rooms of the Irithlium. They are hampered 
by monster attacks, for in the final battle for 
Myth Drannor a fell magic of awesome 
power was worked by the attackers, creat 
ing a large magic-dead area that still en 
velops the entire school today. 

North and east of the Castle, on the edge 
of the city, stands a fortress with a large 
tower at its south end, a huge central block, 
and a long wing extending due north. This 
was a temple to Oghma, the House of Song, 
and it appears largely intact. It is said to in 
clude libraries of written music and the lyr 
ics of ballads, as well as hidden rooms 
crammed with long-lost magical instru 
ments. From time to time, at night, haunt 


ingly mournful music is heard coming from 
this fortress, but its cause is unknown. 

South of the House of Song and east of the 
Castle, on the northern edge of the large 
field of broken rubble, stands a small, 
square keep, of stout, olden design: one of 
the few buildings in the city to have crenel- 
lations, arrow-slits, and a portcullis. This 
was originally a fortress built by the 
dwarves as a storehouse, in the days when 
ores roamed the area in numbers, and the 
city was not yet strong. 

Later, it was named the Onaglym, or 
House of Gems, and was used by the gem- 
cutters of the city, who brought their wares 
to this spell-guarded place. Here the gems 
were graded and safe-stored for later sale to 
visitors. The whispers of Dale Realmslore 
have no doubt increased the riches to be 
found within these walls over the years, but 
it is certain that several caravan-loads of 
gems still lie in its storage cellars, guarded 






















by the ghosts of the dead. 

The dwarves built many pumps so that 
their fortress could draw deep water from 
sources that surface besiegers could not poi 
son or cut off. In the final hours before the 
army of evil swept through the city, a gem- 
warden who did not live to see the next 
dawn opened the pumps, so that the cellars 
flooded, and the gems he was sworn to de 
fend could not easily pass into the hands of 
pillagers. 

The street that curves along the south 
western side of Castle Cormanthor, between 
it and the Speculum, was known as the 
Street of the Evening Star. Tbday, its path is 
clear: from the great heaps of rubble that 
swallow one end of it, in the destroyed area 
at the center of the city, to a much smaller 
band of destruction at its northern end. A 
still-splendid building rises on the other side 
of that rubble, its empty windows still star 
ing down the length of the street. 

This is Shaundakul's Throne, the chief re 
maining temple of a demipower once wor 
shipped by men in the Moonsea North. 
Shaundakul, Rider of the Winds, is detailed 
elsewhere in this sourcebook. His temple 
consists of two towers linked by walls form 
ing an enclosed courtyard, to a large central 
building containing an undercroft where 
the clergy lived, and a huge dais (the throne 
itself), open to the sky, where the demigod 
was worshipped. Here some very danger 
ous beings known as "windghosts," servants 
of the god, still guard their Master's place of 
veneration-and seem able, Elminster 
warns, to move a magic-dead area about to 
encompass intruders, and render them easy 
prey. 

Along the northern edge of the Throne 
runs a long, winding street, that continues 
on around the northern and western edge 
of the city. This is Eldansyr's Ride, and at the 
northwestern end of the city, two large 
buildings stand on its northern side. The 


easternmost of these is Ildrannath's Tbwer, 
once home to an elite band of warrior- 
maidens, who led many expeditions into the 
unexplored Moonsea North, and rode guard 
for many caravans. Ildrannath was the port 
ly, fatherly, bear-like man who founded the 
band and trained its members: his fate is un 
known, but as "the Bear," he lives on around 
fires in many minstrel ballads. The Tbwer's 
reputation as an armory led to its being bro 
ken into and pillaged long ago, but it re 
mains a stout, largely habitable structure 
today-and no doubt, Elminster warns in a 
dry tone, has some inhabitants. 

lb the west of Ilbrannath's Ibwer, five 
buildings down at the extreme northwes- 
ternmost extent of the city, is a temple to La- 
belas Enoreth (detailed in DMGR4, Monster 
Mythology). In recent days, it was taken 
over by Tyranthraxus, the Possessing Spirit, 
who established the Pool of Radiance there 
after fleeing Phlan. (If the DM desires, 
Tyranthraxus or some of his servant crea 
tures may yet lurk in the temple; he and the 
building are both detailed in module FRC2, 
Curse of the Azure Bonds.) A tunnel links 
the temple with a shrinelike tomb in the 
center of the Burial Glen, the Warrior's Gate. 

The Warrior's Gate is cross-shaped, with 
four square wings radiating west, south, 
east, and north. It has two entry doors, to 
the east and west; each has the words "Only 
the Brave" and the images of two crossed 
swords above its arch. 

The tomb rises in sweeping curves to a 
central pinnacle 100' up in the air. Witch- 
fire (intermittent, harmless faerie fire) danc 
es about its peak, making an eerie landmark 
at night. 

Around the gate (which, despite its name, 
contains no magical gate at all) stand a 
dozen tombs large enough to house a band 
or family, as well as many smaller crypts, 
monuments, and markers. Magic keeps the 
overgrowth at bay here, but has not 


3ST 


18 B 















Myth Drqqiqor Today 




stopped undead from lurking. Elminster 
warns that magical traps still guard many of 
the tombs-and created some of the un 
dead, from tomb robbers who were alive 
when they arrived in the Glen! 

Crypts in the Burial Glen represent all 
sorts of architecture, from domed, pillared 
mausoleums to barrow-like mounds of 
carved (now cracked) stone. Smaller tombs 
take the form of caskets surmounted by 
statues depicting the fallen. Most of these 
stone forms have been vandalized by the 
baatezu, who still delight in crushing hu 
mans they meet in the ruins by flying over 
them and dropping a stone statue from 
aloft. 

The older, western part of the city and its 
later, eastern neighborhoods are linked by 
several arched, carved bridges over the 
stream that divides the two areas. The 
southernmost of these, which stands just 
east of the central area of rubble, is ru 
mored to cast spells at those who cross over 
it. 

The eastern end of Myth Drannor was al 
ways more forested and parklike than the 
older, built-up western part of the city. 
Known as Dlarbraddath (named for the gar 
dener who laid it out, a being said to have an 
elven mother and a dwarven father!), this 
neighborhood has been largely reclaimed 
by the forest. Many of the buildings here 
are roofless shells, with trees growing up 
through them. The monsters known as rop 
ers (perhaps escaped from captivity in the 
stronghold of the Guild of Naturalists, de 
scribed hereafter) are numerous in this ar 
ea. 

The largest structure in Dlarbraddath was 
known as the Six Tyryl Tbwers. They were 
largely destroyed in the downfall of Myth 
Drannor, when the young apprentice wiz 
ards who dwelt there fought against the ar 
my of evil, and met brutal ends. 

The Tbwers stood north of the Street of 


Song (the main street of Myth Drannor, that 
ran from "Sixstar," a six-way intersection 
just east of the Westfields, right across the 
city in a winding southeasterly course, to ul 
timately become the road south to Sembia), 
at the eastern end of the Meadow. The two 
westernmost Tbwers still rise above the rub 
ble at the eastern end of the Meadow, but 
they are separated from the easternmost 
pair of surviving towers by devastation: the 
center of the building was blown apart in 
the city's final battle. The Six Tyryl Tbwers 
was then a newly-established school of wiz 
ardry, and some of the magic used against 
its wizards, Elminster warns, created a 
magic-dead area nearby. 

In the ruined Tbwers themselves, some 
quirk of magic (possibly a powerful magical 
curse) has created many of the monsters 
known as "wizshades" (detailed in Volume 7 
of the Monstrous Compendium ), both from 
the unfortunate students of the school, and 
from adventurer-archmages who have 
come to the Tbwers since. 

They are often encountered in the build 
ing, sometimes accompanied by harmless 
but frightening phantom images of other 
wizards of the school, and by at least two 
deranged former teachers at the school, 
who live on as the rare undead known as le- 
bendtod (detailed in module RA2, Ship of 
Horror), and defend the Tbwers against all 
intruders with their spells. A recent explor 
er's tale making the rounds of Dale taverns 
tells of a beholder seen spinning through 
the air as it was hurled out of the school by a 
spell that lashed it with crawling, encircling 
lightnings-and when out in the open air 
above the Meadow, it was struck by a mete 
or swarm, and destroyed! 

Northeast of the rubble of the ruined cen 
ter of the Tbwers is another area of devasta 
tion, where a street is blocked by heaped 
rubble from many collapsed buildings. The 
large building on the western edge of this 













r?v 


• :•. ¦•/:¦:' -:.-r7-- .& ¦?¦¦¦•;¦•' ; "••"- *. -• <; * * ¦¦. ¦< •-" :i 





area ; its entire eastern face torn off so that it 
stands open to the elements; was the Hall of 
the Guild of Naturalists. 

Now a stirge-haunted, pillaged ruin; its 
high-beamed central hall contains a lone; 
massive stone seat that once hid a shaft lead 
ing down to the stronghold of the Natural 
ists; below. The throne has been shoved 
aside to reveal the way down. The subterra 
nean complex beneath; known as "The Halls 
of the Beast-Tamers/' is detailed in the DM's 
Sourcebook of the Realms, from the original 
boxed Campaign Set. It is known to have 
permanent gates linking it with the vast 
dungeon known as Undermountain; far 
away across Faerun; beneath the fabled 
Sword Coast port city of Waterdeep. Power 
ful beings come tO; or escape from, ruined 
Myth Drannor through this portal; accord 
ing to Elminster; there is mounting evidence 
that organized drow and ore bands are 
presently using this route to plunder the ru 
ins. 

North of the city proper (but inside the 
mythal) is a small beautiful woodland glade, 
whose floor consists of a cracked circular 
bowl of steps rising up in concentric rings 
from a central pool. It lies on the north side 
of the eastern stream, just across its flow 
from where three winding paths through 
the woods from the city meet. 

Known as Lovers' Glade, this was an open- 
air temple to Sune, Goddess of Love. By her 
will, no predators (carnivorous or hunting 
creatures with an intelligence of less than 
14) will enter the glade in darkness, making 
it a relatively safe place to sleep. The Glade 
is eerily lit by several dancing lights and fa 
erie fire spells, because of the mythal's 
power to augment magics that illuminate 
but do not deal damage, such as dancing 
lights and faerie fire. When cast, these last 
until dispelled by dispel magic or the will of 
the caster, or until one year has passed per 
complete year of the caster's age. 


The water of the pool is said to be safe to 
drink, but also harbors some sort of aquatic 
guardian creature: a spectator, according to 
some accounts. It guards the treasure at the 
bottom of the pool, thrown in over the years 
as offerings to Sune Firehair: gems and mag 
ical items, that, so the tales go, lie in a layer 
several feet deep at the bottom of the pool's 
20' diameter, 90' deep shaft. 

Wbat Tbe VisitOR 
HeaRS aod Sees 

Even in ruin, Myth Drannor is beautiful. 
Cracked spires still soar smoothly into the 
air, and empty windows frame many a tree 
growing inside a building. Shrubs grow in 
clumps among broken pillars and tumbled 
rubble; bold merchants have been known to 
seize any carved stonework small enough to 
carry, to sell as "spell-touched statuary from 
lost Myth Drannor" for high prices; folk in 
the Dales believe that possessing such a relic 
brings luck-and in Calimshan and T&shluta, 
such items are (falsely) believed to hold part 
of the magical power of the mythal, that a 
wizard skilled enough can unleash to his 
own ends. 

Although birds can be heard calling in the 
forest all around the ruins, an eerie, watch 
ing, waiting silence hangs over the city it 
self. The mythal repels small, unintelligent 
insects. Birds and forest creatures alike 
have learned not to signal their where 
abouts too loudly, for many powerful preda 
tors lurk in Myth Drannor, and death can 
come swiftly. Shattered towers and high 
balconies provide good lookout areafc for 
hunting creatures-and somewhere in Myth 
Drannor is a source of a constant stream of 
new monsters (most of whom wind up as 
food for the established powers in Myth 
Drannor). 

Some new arrivals come through gates, all 











IVk/tb Drqqdor Today 



over the ruins, but a hidden, extra- 
dimensional safehold (like the one known to 
be located in the Speculum, thought to be 
one of many) exists somewhere in the older, 
western part of the city, where a 
deepspawn is housed. These fell monsters 
(described in the sourcebook FR11, 
Dwarves Deep ) spontaneously generate and 
give birth to many different monsters that 
they've encountered in the past, from trolls 
and ores to behir and hydras. 

The haunting beauty of the ruins is even 
greater at night, when moonlight causes 
magically-treated spires and roofs to glow 
with a soft, blue-white radiance, and witch- 
fire plays around the turrets, peaks, and 
pinnacles of the grandest homes. 

As Elminster has admitted, "When I look 
upon Myth Drannor, my heart sobs." Many a 
bard who never knew the living City of Song 
has been moved to mourn for it, in laments 
heard all over Faerun, and folk say you can 
always tell the singers who really have seen 
lost Myth Drannor by the sadness and eerie 
longing that creeps into their voices. 

There is an old Dale saying: "We shall 
watch guard, until Myth Drannor stands 
proud again!" Although many folk from oth 
er parts of Faerun have picked up part of 
the phrase, saying "Until Myth Drannor 
stands proud," and meaning "never," to folk 
in the Dales it is a fierce, deep promise that 
Myth Drannor will rise again. Harpers, the 
Knights of Myth Drannor, and Elminster 
(among others) are working hard to make 
sure that it won't soon rise again as a bastion 
of evil! 










The most distinctive, powerful, and dan 
gerous feature of Myth Drannor is the 
webwork of living magic that envelops it, 
both above and below: its mythal. This ti 
tanic feat of elder magic is a rare and pre 
cious thing today, but of old, mythals were 
laid in other communities besides Myth 
Drannor. 

One was Myth Nantar, now drowned 
deep under the waves of The Sea of Fallen 
Stars, somewhere near the Pirate Isles, 
and said to be infested by sahuagin and 
worse. Another was Myth Lharast, in the 
heart of Amn. Founded as a city of Selune- 
worshippers, its mythal is linked to the 
moon. It appears only on certain moonlit 
nights, a ghostly, floating splendor of walls 
and towers, only to disappear again. Vari 
ous groups, from undead armies ruled by 
demi-liches to gargoyle clans, have seized 
control of the city over the years, and 
used it to raid the surrounding area, earn 
ing it a fell reputation. 

Myth Glaurach stood in the Sword Coast 
Northlands, in the upper reaches of De- 
limbiyr Vale, near present-day Hellgate 
Keep. Entirely destroyed by ore hordes 
long ago, it is today only creeper-covered 
rubble and a few underground chambers 
and sewer tunnels, now home to mon 
sters. The mythal remains in force over 
these ruins, however, and are used by cer 
tain daring adventurers and by the evil in 
habitants of Hellgate Keep to work 
powerful magics and to replenish magic 
they carry. 

There were other mythal sites, at least 
six cities in all as well as several strong 
holds. The only mythal-guarded strong- 
i'ioi'u known today is The fTeral'ds' 
Holdfast, whose mythal is similar to that 
of Myth Drannor (detailed herein), but 
also includes some defensive barriers 
that exclude ores and prohibit certain 
spells and actions from entering, which 


aid in its defense (and have given it the 
reputation, over the years, of being an 
invincible fortress, allowing it to with 
stand sieges by ore hordes, bands of ma 
rauding beholders, tarrasques, and 
powerful archmages alike). 

Laying A Mytbal 

The details of this mighty Art are now lost, 
but from Elminster and others we know 
the process: at least nine wizards were re 
quired, of 41st or greater level (the mini 
mum required to cast lOth-level spells, in 
the days before the gods took such heights 
of spellhurling away from mortals). 

A tenth-level spell, create mythal, was 
cast simultaneously by the nine. This 
spell is known to have permanently 
drained ld6 hit points from each caster. 
(Other tenth-level spells known to have 
existed were hurricane, slaying wind, 
tidal wave, shape mountain, and wildma- 
gic tempest .) 

A mythal would then begin to form, and 
the nine creators (plus other magic- 
workers allowed to participate by the 
nine) would "weave" the mythal as it slow 
ly formed, adding specific powers to it, 
and determining its boundaries. Each cre 
ator could secretly fashion two properties 
for the mythal, and the others could open 
ly add as many powers as desired. 

Possible mythal properties are the abili 
ty to make all magical or alignment auras 
continuously visible, for example, or to ex 
clude certain races of creatures, or to 
block psionics, or the ability to make all 
items of less than a certain mass have an 
equal density to air, so that they float and 
cannot fall or be thrown with any force. 

Sages still hotly debate the true nature 
of mythals, but it is generally agreed that a 
mythal is a living thing, a huge magical 
webwork of force-beams given life by its 


ft 












The Mt/thal 



creators (from whom it takes life-force), 
and sustained by the natural processes of 
its surroundings (taking energy from sun 
light, water seepage, temperature 
changes, and the like). This is why dispel 
magic spells, limited wishes, and similar 
magics can weaken or temporarily negate 
certain mythal properties (wish spells can 
even permanently exclude small areas 
from mythal control, or twist mythal 
properties into new results) but such mag 
ics can never destroy a mythal. 

This view of mythal nature is supported 
by the words of the goddess Mystra (her 


successor, Midnight, has been silent on 
such matters and is thought to be learning 
such arcane lore from Azuth) over the 
years, as well as several comments of the 
Magister and the demigod Azuth, who is 
said to have had a hand in the creation of 
the very first mythal. 



































The Mythal 



Myth Droddor's 
Mythal: Its PocoeRS 
and Przoperzties 

The mighty mythal that overlies ruined 
Myth Drannor has many properties cru 
cial to survival in the present-day area, 
and to understanding how the city has 
come to be what it is. Additional proper 
ties (not given here) may well be discov 
ered as exploration of the ruins continues. 
The exact boundaries of the mythal are 
not known, but in general, the network 
encompasses all of the visible ruins except 
the Burial Glen, extending 700' up into the 
air above ground level, and the same dis 
tance down into the earth (and subterra 
nean open spaces, such as caverns, 
passages, and dungeon cells) below. 

The known properties of Myth Dran- 
nor's mythal are as given hereafter. These 
governing mythal properties are the rea 
sons why so many monsters can live in 
such close proximity in the ruins, and sur 
vive for long. 

A partial list of those who wove the my 
thal (whether they laid it or not) includes: 
Elminster of Shadowdale; the archmage 
Mentor Wintercloak; the mysterious mage 
known only as The Masked; and Harblest 
Stornmaster, who styled himself "The 
Mage of Wands." Of those nine who had a 
hand in the laying of the mythal, only 
Elminster is still known to live. The Seven 
Wizards (Mentor and The Masked were 
both members of this fellowship) perished 
much later when Myth Drannor was at 
tacked, overrun, and ruined, and the oth 
er mages either died of old age or 
misadventure, or vanished into other 
planes or shapes. It is quite possible that 
some may yet dwell in the Realms, per 
haps even in the ruins themselves. If such 



have turned to evil or lost their sanity, 
their mastery over the mythal would 
make them deadly foes! 

Myth Drannan mythal properties that 
Elminster deigns to speak of include the 
following. 

Magical Prohibitions: Within its con 
fines and at its boundaries, the mythal 
absorbs and negates all scrying, detec 
tion, location, divination, and mind- 
reading or influencing magics, from a 
simple locate object or wizard eye to the 
more powerful hold monster or mass 
charm. None of these can be cast into or 
out from the mythal. 

In other words, no wizard spells wholly 
or partly of the "enchantment/charm" or 
"greater divination" schools, and no priest 
spells of the "charm" or "divination" 
spheres, or any magical item discharges 
that emulate such spells, work in Myth 
Drannor. 

In addition, no teleportation or similar 
translocation magics (such as dimension 
door) work properly within Myth Dran 
nor, or into or out of its confines. A wizard 
(or other being using an item) trying to 
teleport into Myth Drannor uses and ex 
hausts the magic in the usual manner, but 
the destination is "bent" by the mythal, so 
that the wizard arrives at another random 
destination, anywhere in Faerun. 

An attempt to use such magics while 
within Myth Drannor, even powerful ones 
such as a priest's word of recall or trans - 
port via plants, results in a trip to a ran 
dom location elsewhere within the mythal 
(that is, to another point somewhere in ru 
ined Myth Drannor, perhaps into great 
danger). Such trips are not governed by 
the usual limitations on travel (a dimen 
sion door, for example, could send its cast 
er on a much longer journey than the spell 
can normally manage), but are never fatal 














L# 

- .I-;- 


t i 

Tbe Mc/tfoaJ 

1 

i ' 


Kj 


or damaging due to "teleport errors:" pos 
sible contact with solid objects simply car 
oms the traveling being to another, safe 
destination). 

Psionic Prohibitions: The mythal nul 
lifies all psionic powers that achieve the 
same effects as prohibited spells (as 
above). In other words, while within Myth 
Drannor, no clairsentient or telepathic 
powers function, and the results of psy- 
choportive powers are warped as given 
for magic, above. 

Wild Magic and Psionics: Whenever 
magic or psionics that the mythal does not 
negate is used within the mythal, or into 
or out of its confines, there is a cumulative 
10% chance per level that a "wild" effect 
occurs, rather than the effect desired. (In 
other words, a lst-level spell has only a 
10% chance of going wrong, but a 7th- 
level spell is 70% likely to go awry.) The 
only exceptions to this deadly property 
are afforded by dead magic areas and in 
the cases of magic augmented by the my 
thal (see below). 

For what wild effects occur, DMs should 
use a random combination of whatever 
sources they have on hand: either just the 
"Wild Mythal Magic" table given herein or 
that table and " Iable 2: Wild Surge Re 
sults" on page 7 of the Tbme of Magic 
sourcebook, as well as the "Effects of Wild 
Magic" table on page 10 of the 
FORGOTTEN REALMS (r) Adventures 
sourcebook (which is identical to the 
"Magical Chaos Tkble" on the inside covers 
of module FRE2, Thntras). 

Power Surges: Whenever a being uses 
magic that produces effects not prohib 
ited (see above) or specifically aided (see 
below) by the mythal, and successfully 
passes a wild magic check (the percentage 


chance of the magic being twisted into a 
totally different magical effect, as above), 
there remains the possibility that the my 
thal unpredictably augments or dampens 
the magic. 

The caster/magical item wielder (not 
any items involved) must make a saving 
throw versus death magic. If it succeeds, 
the magic is under the caster's control, 
and has its normal effect or range of ef 
fects. 

If the saving throw fails, roll another 
die. An even result means that the mythal 
augments the magic to its full possible du 
ration, damage, number of targets, or ef 
fects (automatic hits are scored, if 
applicable), and an odd result means that 
the mythal holds the magic to its mini 
mum possible effects, damage, or dura 
tion. (The DM should feel free to vary the 
end results of these surges slightly, to al 
low color and interest to temper repeated 
maximum and minimum PC experiences.) 

Certain areas within the mythal are 
"magic-strong," and may glow with faint 
sparklings of blue-white light at night, or 
when a magical item is brought into their 
confines. These areas move about, change 
shape, and are otherwise invisible, so no 
map of them exists-but one is known to 
encompass the Shield Ring, and another is 
located in the Circle of Stars (now over 
grown with trees and brambles, this one 
time open area lies due south of 
Moonbright Tbwer). 

Magic wielded in "magic-strong" areas is 
always boosted to maximum effects, but 
may (4 in 6 chance) be accompanied by 
"wild magic" side effects (determined ran 
domly, using the sources given above). 

Dead Magic: Certain invisible, shape- 
shifting and slowly drifting areas within 
the mythal are "magic dead;" no magic (in 
cluding magic-like monster powers and all 
















psionic powers that affect things outside 
the body of the psionics-using being) 
works within or through them. 

The slow, random movement of these 
areas prevents any accurate mapping of 
them, but a large area has been centered 
on the Irithlium for about as long as Myth 
Drannor has been in ruins, and others are 
known to lie near the Six Tyryl Ibwers 
and Glyryrryl's Pool. 

The huge stone dais that holds Shaunda- 
kul's Throne is the site of a very mobile 
magic-dead area that the windghosts who 
lurk there seem to be able to move about 
deliberately, to defend themselves against 
intruders. 

Every magic-dead area, from the small 
est known (about the size of two normal 
men standing back-to-back) to the largest 
(about the size of a small paddock or 
square till-field) has boundaries, marked 
by a wild magic zone. 

In other words, as one enters a magic- 
dead area, one passes through an amor 
phous area about six feet thick. Tb one 
entering or leaving it, the zone can be de 
tected by a faint shimmering of the air 
(but this can't be seen by beings in other 
locations, even if very near). Magic cast 
within, into, or through a dead magic zone 
boundary area is always twisted "wild." 
Use the Wild Mythal Magic Table and/or 
the other sources given under "Wild Mag 
ic and Psionics," above, to determine what 
wild effects occur. Psionics are not ne 
gated in these zones unless normally pro 
hibited by the mythal (as described 
above). 


Magic and Psioaics 
Augmented by the 
Mythal 

The mythal's presence, and the use of 
much magic in and around Myth Drannor 
over the years, has weakened the planar 
fabric of Faerun in the vicinity, making the 
occurrence of portals to other worlds 
(such as Krynn) and planes (including de- 
miplanes, such as Ravenloft) fairly fre 
quent. Beings native to these other places 
who have wandered through such con 
nections are often met with, near Myth 
Drannor-and all magic and psionics that 
deals with astral or ethereal states and 
planar connections, and monster abilities 
connected to other planes (such as undead 
life draining) is augmented by the mythal. 

Gate spells do not age the caster, and al 
ways reach the exact intended being-but 
those eager to cast such spells will learn a 
secret power of the mythal the hard way 
(see Secret Powers of the Mythal). 

Plane shift spells require no material 
component for casting, and unwilling 
creatures (who still must be touched) 
aren't allowed a saving throw. The caster 
can send two beings to another plane, not 
just one (the caster may be one of them), 
but both entities are taken to the same 
destination. The destination is always the 
precise plane and/or location that the cast 
er intends to reach, never resulting in a 
wrong or diverted journey. 

Astral spells require only 1 turn to cast, 
and the caster can reach down to the first, 
second, or third levels of the desired outer 
plane, at will. 

Ensnarement spells always bring the de 
sired creature (no saving throw allowed) 
instantly to the caster, but the creature is 
never successfully trapped by its warding 

















Tbe MyttaaJ 



circle, and arrives enraged at the caster, 
ready to attack! 

Banishment spells require no material 
components (though this lack grants no 
modifiers to the target being's magic re 
sistance and saving throw), and the caster 
need not know or utter the name, title, or 
type of the creature to be affected if the 
creature is clearly visible to the caster at 
commencement of spellcasting. 

Drawmij's instant summons spells, 
Leomund's secret chest spells, and other 
magics that provide linkages across dis 
tances or planes work after a fashion. 
They always produce something- but it is 
a random item of the DM's choice, any 
thing from a faded flower to a stool or a 
rock, never the intended item! (Magical 
items and spells that connect with their 
own extra-dimensional space, such as 
bags of holding and portable holes, are not 
affected.) 

Undead who drain life energy by their 
attacks (not including the "chill touch" of a 
lich) can add the number of hit points lost 
bv a drained creature instantly and per 
manently to their own hit point total. 

Creatures who deal damage by the dis 
charge of energies drawn from the Posi 
tive Material Plane double their damage 
dice from all such attacks. 

Initial and maintenance PSP costs for 
rsychoportive psionic powers involving 
rtherplanar contact are cut in half (round 
tractions up), but summoned entities are 
always free of control, and hostile (see be 
in'). Psychoportive psionics involving 
movement within the same plane (such as 
•-Report) are "bent" by the mythal, as pre- 
tijusly noted. 

The mythal was intended to make the 
r es of city inhabitants easier, and some of 
* - surviving powers reflect this. 

: ailing living beings are affected as if by 
. rather fall spell. Extremes of heat and 


cold are moderated by the mythal, so that 
forest fires are dampened and winter 
freezing prevented (the reason for the 
lush forest growth in the ruins). This pre 
vents death by exposure for all creatures, 
even in the worst weather. Natural light 
ning strikes (as opposed to magically 
caused ones) are also unknown in Myth 
Drannor; the mythal absorbs such storm 
discharges to power itself. 

Here and there throughout the ruins, 
explorers notice lush, soft-looking beds of 
thick moss. By night, these can hardly be 
ignored; they glow with a vivid blue faerie 
fire- like radiance (bright enough to read 
by, when within 10') visible from afar. 
Many of the moss clumps are large 
enough for humans to use as beds, though 
the largest mosses are usually jealously 
guarded by monsters who know their pre 
cious powers. Many intruders think the 
moss itself is some sort of monster, and 
avoid it (and there are some harmful vari 
eties, and even the sort of monster known 
as a mimic masquerading as moss, among 
the beneficial blueglow moss). 

Blueglow moss is powered by the my 
thal, and confers beneficial abilities to 
creatures who undergo prolonged expo 
sure to it. An injured being who falls onto 
blueglow moss, or an intruder who sleeps 
on a bed of it, is healed of ld4 points of 
damage per uninterrupted hour of expo 
sure. Continuous exposure of 6 hours or 
more grants the following additional ben 
efits and side effects: 

• Regeneration of lost limbs, damaged 
organs, and tissue begins (a slow process 
that banishes disease, parasitic infesta 
tions, and the like, but which with repeat 
ed blueglow moss exposure can result in a 
complete restoration to a whole, healthy 
state). 

• The exposed being must save vs. 
spell at -6, or acquire 70' range infra- 










Tbe M?/tbaI 



vision (at 10' per 6-hour-period of expo 
sure). Creatures possessing natural infra 
vision gain a single bonus of 10' additional 
range. Beyond the stated limits, neither of 
these benefits is cumulative (vision range 
can't be extended farther by repeated ex 
posure) or permanent: when the being 
leaves the mythal, the power is instantly 
lost. 

• The being feels light and bouncy, 
and has acquired the power to rise or de 
scend in the air (the being must make a 
successful save vs. spells at -4, even if he 
wants this ability, or it will not manifest): 
to levitate at MV 10. 

At first exposure, beings can only lift 
themselves, naked (though they can slow 
their descent, even when fully encum 


bered). An additional 25 pounds of weight 
can be levitated per 6-hour-period of ex 
posure, until affected beings can levitate 
themselves in full plate armor, along with 
a horse, a fallen comrade, and assorted 
baggage (about 1000 pounds in all). When 
ever the being leaves the mythal, this 
power is instantly lost. 

• The exposed being gains an in 
creased alertness of his own body: at 
tacks, diseases, infestations, and 
poisonings become instantly detectable 
(even attacks normally concealed by an 
aesthetic means, such as rot grub burrow- 
ings, but not magical attacks that affect 
the senses of the victim). No additional 
benefits against such dangers are con 
ferred. 































• The exposed being gains increased 
resistance to petrification ( + 1 on all sav 
ing throws) and polymorph (+ 2 on all sav 
ing throws) attacks. 

The mythal also extends and augments 
light magic and the psionic devotion con 
trol light, making the maintenance cost al 
ways 1 PSP/round, and making mistakes 
("20" results) impossible. Magics that illu 
minate but do not deal damage, such as 
dancing lights, faerie fire, and light, are in 
creased greatly in duration; when cast, 
they last until dispelled by dispel magic or 
by the will of the caster, or until one year 
has passed per complete year already past 
in the life of the caster. 

SecRet Pouoerzs of 
the Mytbal 

Myth Drannor's mythal has up to 18 "se 
cret powers" (two for each of the nine wiz 
ards who laid it), as well as any number of 
additional powers, added by the other 
mages who helped in the weaving, whose 
natures have been forgotten with the pas 
sage of time. 

Most of these are left to the DM. They 
must be relatively minor in scope to have 
escaped detection thus far, but can be al 
most anything in the way of specific magi 
cal and/or psionic prohibitions or 
augmentations. 

Elminster has graciously agreed to re 
veal what he recalls of these secret 
powers. He warns adventurers that the 
Phaerimm know as much about them as 
he does. He's particularly proud of the my 
thal ghost power, which he devised him 
self, long ago. 

• Summoned creatures of any sort 
(such as those called by a monster sum 
moning, invisible stalker or conjure ele 
mental spell, or even by an item that 


normally controls such beings, or those 
gated in) always arrive angry at, uncon 
trolled by, and ready to attack the sum- 
moner. 

• The mythal was designed to sustain 
and aid those who live within it, and con 
tact with it confers a 20% chance (not cu 
mulative, check at the end of each 
continuous 24-hour period only) per day 
of curing any diseases, insanity, or feeble 
mindedness on the part of any being. 

• Beings who dwell within the mythal 
for more than nine days develop a "mythal 
ghost" of themselves. This is a shadowy, 
tenuous likeness of themselves that is 
freed only when they are at or near death 
(less than 10% of their hit points remain 
ing), or are rendered immobile (tied up, 
pinned under fallen rubble, or buried). A 
mythal ghost has the same abilities and 
statistics as the being it mirrors, and can 
move or wield items, but cannot speak or 
cast spells. It is not affected by fire, cold, 
or any undead attacks, and has hit points 
equal to its owner's full hp total. 

Ghosts can fly upwards or downwards 
20'/round, or walk on air. If struck or 
borne downwards, they are always affect 
ed as if by a feather fall. If desired, they 
can move with utter silence. If, and only if, 
the being remains motionless, ceasing to 
move or take deliberate actions, the ghost 
can be freed. The owner of a mythal ghost 
feels a floating, moving sensation when 
the conditions for freeing the ghost are 
met. 

A mythal ghost can attempt to free its 
owner from restraints, can fight off (or 
fight on against) foes of its owner, can by 
silent gestures warn or direct others, can 
get items its owner cannot reach or trans 
fer items held by its owner to another, and 
so on. Mythal ghosts can fight other my 
thal ghosts. A mythal ghost is affected by 
magic normally, but cannot be contacted 












'i ¦ \ .* : 




The Mythal 




or affected psionically. It is destroyed 
when brought to 0 hp, or when its owner 
dies. 

A mythal ghost needs no air or suste 
nance, and cannot drown. It can carry 
food to its owner, but can't eat things to 
nourish its owner. It cannot remain vigi 
lant while its owner sleeps, though own 
ers slipping into unconsciousness can will 
their alert selves to pass entirely into their 
ghosts. In this case, the owners cannot 
awaken until the ghost returns to merge 
with them, whereas normally owners can 
see and be aware from both their original 
bodies and the ghosts at the same time, 
and can move or speak with their original 
bodies at will (instantly destroying the 
ghosts). 

The ability to generate a mythal ghost 
lasts for one year for every 24 hours spent 
in the mythal. An adventurer who sur 
vived a 12-day-long exploration of Myth 
Drannor could generate a mythal ghost up 
to 12 years later, when imprisoned in a 
dungeon cell somewhere in Calimshan, or 
laid low with a broken leg in the wilds 
north of Silverymoon. There are no limita 
tions on the distance between a ghost and 
its owner (though a ghost cannot pass on 
to another plane). King Azoun of Cormyr 
was once shocked in his throne room by 
the appearance of such a ghost, sent by 
the war wizard Sharatheen, whom he'd 
sent to investigate the ruins. She brought 
with her ashes from his kitchens, and in a 
scattering of them wrote a message warn 
ing him not to send others to their death 
in the perilous ruins-before her own 
death caused the ghost to waver and van 
ish, in front of the astonished, assembled 
court. 

• Wizards who know the fourth-level 
spell weave mythal (detailed in the Spell- 
Tbme of Daern, in this sourcebook) can 
use it to render magic wielded by them 


selves, or another chosen being, or all 
magic cast in a specific 30'-radius sphere 
(within the spell duration: 1 turn after 
casting) to be free of mythal influence: i.e. 
free of mythal prohibitions, wild magic, 
power fluctuations, and augmentations. 
Elminster warns that the Phaerimm all 
know this spell. 

• By will, a being who knows how to 
do so can direct the mythal to recharge a 
magical item. This process cannot be 
blocked or reversed by anyone, although 
it can be stopped by slaying or rendering 
unconscious the being causing it. The item 
must be one that uses charges and is re 
chargeable, such as most wands. 

The process requires one round of "star 
tup," when the being wrestles to channel 
mythal energies. This round doesn't bene 
fit the item, but does drain the guiding be 
ing. The mythal gives the item (which 
must be within the mythal, and not more 
than 90' from the guiding being) 1 charge 
per round, but at the same time drains 2 
hit points per round from the being di 
recting it. Hit points lost in this way can be 
regained by normal rest and by magical 
healing means. 

Guiding the mythal requires total con 
centration; spellcasting, reading, combat, 
and even looking around are impossible. If 
the guides concentration is broken by an 
attack or other means, the process ceases, 
and at least one round must pass before 
another startup can be attempted. The 
charge that the item would have gained 
during the broken round is lost, but 
charges gained earlier do not leak out, and 
can't be removed by dispel magic or other 
known means. 

• By will, beings who know how to do 
so can direct the mythal to teleport them 
selves and any other beings or items they 
are touching (of a total volume up to 14 
times each being's own body volume) to 









rrrr^ 



another specific location within the my- 
thal. No spell is required, and there is no 
possibility of "teleport error," but this 
power is rarely used, because the user 
permanently loses 1 hp, scrambled by the 
mythal during the trip. The use of a tele 
port or a similar spell or psychoportive 
psionic ability (which are always twisted 
by the mythal, as described earlier) does 
not prevent this hp loss, or benefit the my 
thal teleport in any way. 

• By will, a being who knows how to 
do so can direct the mythal to empower all 
non-prohibited wizard spells of less than 
third level, and all non-prohibited first- 
level priest spells, to their full possible du 
ration, damage, number of targets, or 
effects (automatic hits are scored, if appli 
cable). Wild magic and power surges are 
avoided', and magic normally augmented 
by the mythal does up to double its nor 
mal maximum effects (the DM must de 
cide just how much a spell can transcend 
its normal limitations). 

• Beings who continuously dwell with 
in the mythal for more than four years 
gain effects equal to imbibing a potion of 
longevity, that is, their apparent age is re 
duced by ldl2 years, restoring 
previously-held vigor. Thereafter, they do 
not seem to age, though their actual lifes 
pan is not extended; death comes swiftly if 
they ever leave the mythal. (Unless skilled 
at magic or experienced in dealing with 
necromantic matters, they may be un 
aware of their likely fate, should they ever 
leave the ruined city.) 

Some beings "caged by the mythal" in 
this way may survive for hours or even 
days after leaving it, and have managed to 
leave Myth Drannor on suicide missions to 
avenge themselves, their loved ones, or 
descendants in the world outside. (Until 
the process begins, the victim has no 
warning it is at hand; only experience 


with magic and aging may lead a sharp- 
minded entity to anticipate it.) 

Most mythal-augmented victims can't 
last so long; several adventurers who ex 
plored Myth Drannor have reported 
meeting crazed beings who claim to have 
roamed the ruins for centuries or more. 
When these inhabitants of the ruins fol 
lowed or pursued the adventurers out of 
the mythal, they shrivelled to skeletons 
and fell to dust, in moments! 

It is possible that beings dwelling in this 
mythal always die by violence, and cannot 
die of natural aging and body failures. 
Myth Drannor's mythal does not prevent 
the natural formation or deliberate crea 
tion of undead, or prohibit their presence, 
unlike several other mythals known in the 
past. 

Aside from Eiminster and die 
Phaerimm, masters of the mythal (those 
who know how to wield many of its secret 
powers) are few. Most of the handful of 
NPCs who have survived in Myth Drannor 
long, if they have any magical powers at 
all, can command at least one of the my- 
thal's "secret" powers. Learning to guide 
the mythal correctly (gaining the result 
one wants, rather than forcing a "wild 
magic" surge) requires much magical re 
search, an aptitude for handling magic, 
and actual on-site practice; no PC wizard 
arriving in Myth Drannor will able to 
guide the mythal in any of its controllable 
secret powers, although the weave mythal 
spell, if found, can be studied, cast, and 
used readily thereafter just as with any 
fourth-level wizard spell. 















The Mythal 




Wild Mc/ttaal Magic 
Table 

Roll percentile dice and consult this table. 

Modify results to fit the situation and add 

color. 

01-10: All beings within 90' of the source of 
the affected magic must save vs. 
spells; everyone who fails is affected 
as if by a reverse gravity, falling up 
for 7 rounds and then down again 
(7d6 impact damage upon landing). 

11-18: Dancing motes of light appear in a 
sparkling, smoking cloud around the 
source of the magic, and coalesce in 
to ld20 gems of random types and 
values (which fall from the air) and a 
chain lightning discharge that leaps 
from the caster/magical item wielder 
to the nearest living being, dealing 
9d6 damage, and then arcs to the 
next closest being for 8d6 damage, 
and so on (in doubtful cases of which 
target is nearest, determine random 
ly; in this case, the "next nearest" be 
ing is determined from the original 
source, not the last being struck). 
Saving throws are allowed for items 
(to escape all damage) and for struck 
beings (to take only half damage; 
round down number of die rolls). 

19-25: Target (if a being) and all beings with 
in 20' of target are affected as if by a 
heal spell. Caster/magical item wield 
er loses 2d4 hit points, but is sur 
rounded by a "chill shield" fire shield 
spell, lasting 9 rounds. 

26-30: A Mordenkaineris disjunction spell 
takes effect, its 30'-radius sphere 
centered at a random spot within 
120' of the caster/magical item wield 
er (use ldl2 for distance, and Scatter 
Diagram on page 63 of the DMG to 


determine direction), centered on 
the caster, not the target. 

31-33: An item appears (roll on the Art Ob 
jects Table, on page 143 of the 
FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Adventures 
sourcebook), striking the caster on 
the head from above, for 1 (odd roll) 
or 2 (even roll) points of damage. All 
other beings within 90' are simulta 
neously affected as follows (roll ld6). 
1: The being is affected as if by a 
jump spell, and hurled 20' in a ran 
dom direction (use Scatter Diagram 
on page 63 of the DMG); 2d4 impact 
damage applies if travel is into a 
wall or other large solid object; 

2: The being is healed of ld8 hit 
points (if wounded), and is affected 
by (even roll) a ld4-round-duration 
mirror image spell, or (odd roll), a 
ray of enfeeblement whose effects 
last ld6 rounds; 

3: The being grows an extra arm, 
head, leg, or tentacle, which coils, 
flails about, and makes noise un 
controllably; appendage drops off 
after 2d6 turns, but until then 
lowers Armor Class by 3 points, en 
dangers balance (being cannot 
walk along ropes or even narrow 
paths without danger of falling or 
straying off route), and makes 
stealthy movement impossible; 

4: The being is diminished to a 
tenth of normal height, shrunk as if 
by a potion of diminution for 2dl2 
rounds, and also rendered invisible 
(for same length of time or until 
making first successful attack); 

5: The being becomes center focus 
of a silence, 15' radius spell, lasting 
ld4 turns or until dispelled; 

6: The being is outlined by orange 
faerie fire, duration ld4 turns. 













34-36: The ground in a 40'-radius circle 
centered on the caster/magical item 
wielder ripples, flows, and shud 
ders. Bubbles burst up out of it, 
streaming upwards. All beings in this 
area must save vs. spells to avoid fall 
ing (no damage, but ruins spellcast 
ing, aiming missile weapons, etc.), 
and any flames (torches, fire-based 
spells, even lanterns) in the area trig 
ger a bubble explosion, extinguish 
ing the flame and doing 4d4 points of 
damage to any being at or within 10' 
of the flame, and 2d4 damage to ev 
eryone else in the bubble area (no 
saves allowed). 

37-46: Any items of metal or stone within 
100' of the caster/magical item wield 
er that are not in contact with a liv 
ing being (i.e. a stone someone is 
sitting on, or metal armor worn or 
carried by an adventurer won't be 
affected) rise up and dart about by 
themselves, flying at MV 29 in wild, 
erratic courses. 

The caster/magic wielder and all 
beings within the 100' range must 
make a Dexterity Check to avoid 
being struck. If there are more 
than six flying items, two checks at 
"* 1 must be made, and if there are 
more than 15 items, three checks at 
- 2 must be made. For each check 
that fails, the being is struck for 
ld4 points of damage (or if by a 
weapon, for its usual damage), un 
less the item has a greater mass 
than the struck being (a large stone 
block, for example), in which case 
the target takes 2d4 points of dam 
age. 

In many areas of Myth Drannor, 
2dl0 stones within a lOO'-radius ar 
ea are loose enough to rise up and 
whirl around. Their flights last for 
ld4 rounds, and checks must be 


made each round to avoid being 
hit. Beings who try to cast spells, 
pick locks, or perform other activi 
ties that prevent them from freely 
leaping and dodging about must 
make their check for that round at 
- 5; if failed, the impact ruins any 
success at the activity attempted. 

47-49: The caster/magical item wielder or a 
random being within 70' is encased 
in a forcecage of 12 turns duration. 

50-53: A random weapon within 100' of the 
caster/magic wielder animates, fly 
ing to attack a random target being, 
striking for 2 rounds at THAC0 9 for 
normal damage. Then it flies to an 
other random being and strikes for 2 
rounds at THAC0 7. Then it seeks an 
other target, striking once at THAC0 
5, before falling, inert. The caster/ 
magic wielder and original target are 
candidates for attack, and the weap 
on flies up to a quarter of a mile at 
MV 33 to find targets, if none are 
near. If the weapon is ever struck for 
6 or more points of damage in a 
round (consider it to have an Armor 
Class of 2), it harmlessly bursts apart 
into shards of metal, and its anima 
tion ends. 

54-58: A weapon (or failing any, a random 
item) carried by the intended target 
is permanently changed to (percen 
tile roll of 01-25) a bunch of flowers; 
(26-50) a lit torch; (51-75) an intact 
skeletal arm, its bones still linked by. 
sinews and cartilage; (76-99) a live 
and angry normal constrictor snake 
(AC6, MV 9, HD 3+2, THAC0 17, 
#AT 2: bite for 1, constrict for 1-3 
points/round); or (00) a wand of won 
der of ldl2 charges. A wielded or 
drawn weapon is always affected be 
fore a sheathed or stowed one. 

59-62: Spell takes effect as cast, but with a 


33 " 














40'-radius spherical area of effect, 
centered 20' to the left (even roll) or 
right (odd roll) of the target. All once- 
living material on the target (leather, 
cloth, paper, etc.) crumbles to dust 
forever (magical items and 
spellbooks get a saving throw vs. 
magical fire to escape this result), 
and the caster/magic wielder is con 
fused for ld4 rounds. 

63-65: One random being within 120' of the 
source of the magic affected by the 
mythal is slowed for ld6 rounds, and 
another random being in the same 
range is affected as if by a haste spell 
(but is not aged). 

66-69: Spell or magical item discharge is not 
"used up," but the act of calling it 
forth triggers instead a random wiz 
ard spell of the Alteration school (se 
lect a random spell from Appendix 5 
of the Player's Handbook : choose by 
the closed-eyes-and-stabbing-finger 
method, the whimsical-deliberate- 
choice method, or by rolling ld6: 1 
or 2 means the first column on page 
238 (then roll 3dl0 to find the spell, 
counting from the top); 3 or 4 means 
the middle column (roll 4dl2 to find 
spell, counting up from the bottom 
of the page); 5 or 6 means the last 
column (roll ld4 to find spell). This 
"phantom spell" affects a random 
target or area, for minimal results. 

70-79: A random being within 90' of the 
source of the affected magic 
breathes once as if using a single 
draught of potion of fire breath; vic 
tim involuntarily exhales a cone of 
fire 10' wide and 20' long that inflicts 
ldlO+2 hp of damage. All beings 
within range are allowed a save vs. 
breath weapon for half damage; if 
the fire-breathing being doesn't 
want to hurt particular beings with 


in range, the breather is allowed a 
dexterity check to spit the flames to 
one side and avoid striking any one 
being. 

80-84: A random being within 90' of the 
source of the magic affected by the 
mythal is forced into wraithform (as 
the spell) for 2d4 rounds. 

85-87: The caster or source of magic levi 
tates 10' and revolves slowly clock 
wise or counterclockwise 
(determine randomly) for 2d6 
rounds; at the same time, any one 
other being within 140' of the caster 
or source of magic is polymorphed 
into a random creature (roll on Con 
jured Animals T&ble, in the end pages 
of Monstrous Compendium 1) or 
non-living item (roll on the Art Ob 
jects Table, on page 143 of the 
FORGOTTEN REALMS (r) Adventures 
sourcebook, or choose a random 
item from the Miscellaneous Equip 
ment list on page 67 of the Player's 
Handbook ). 

88-90: The caster/magic wielder and target 
creature (or random being within 
90' of caster) instantly trade loca 
tions, clothing, and equipment; items 
that won't fit do no damage, but end 
up falling to the ground around their 
former location (and new owner). 

91-97: Black smoke curls and writhes about 
the intended target-and as it dissi 
pates, an Evard's black tentacles spell 
(of 1 hour duration) takes effect 
around the target (even if target is on 
the move). 

98-00: Last magic wielded by (or affecting) a 
random PC or being present takes ef 
fect again-on a random area or tar 
get creature (roll damage/effects 
again; they need not duplicate the 
earlier magical manifestation). 




34 













Among the most sinister creatures one can 
meet in-or under-Myth Drannor are the 
fell Phaerimm. This ancient, evil magic 
using race is fully detailed in the pages of 
the FR13 Anauroch sourcebook. Their 
powers and aims are summarized here. 

Phaerimm resemble upright, levitating 
cones, the open top of the cone being pow 
erful jaws surrounded by four retractile 
arms ending in human hands. The narrow 
end of the cone is a barbed stinger-tail. 

Phaerimm eat all reptiles and mammals, 
keeping them as slaves until devouring 
them. Phaerimm have 160' infravision, and 
normal vision to 90' (they can also see magi 
cal auras as a detect magic, and view the as 
tral and ethereal planes, to this range). 
Phaerimm; INT 19-20; AL NE; AC 2; MV Fl 
9 (A); HD 9; THACO 11; #AT 6; Dmg ld4 (or 
by weapon) X4 (arms-or can grasp to 
make bites automatically hit: grasping arms 
need successful attack rolls, at least 2 must 


hit: Phaerimm and victim each roll d20 eve 
ry round-if victim rolls higher, he tears 
free), 3d4 (bite), 2d4 (tail); SA tail sting (if at 
tack roll 16 or greater, sting impales for an 
other ld6 points of damage, and victim must 
save vs. poison thrice: first to see if para 
lyzed, second to see if levitated off ground, 
third to see if injected egg is fertile (if so, 
eats victim from within, taking 1 hp/day af 
ter ld6 days), spell use, 1 per round (as hu 
man mages, gaining 1 level per 50 years of 
life); SD spell attacks that their resistance 
overcomes are used as healing (the damage 
they would have dealt gained as hp, non 
damaging spells yield 1 hp per spell level, ex 
tra hp carried for 12 rounds) or can be 
reflected back at the source; MR 44% (77% 
vs. petrification and polymorph); SZ L (up to 
12' long); ML 17; XP 10,000; FR13. For more 
on Phaerimm spellcasting, see the chapter 
on their spells in this sourcebook. 






















The Ph aeRi'rara 



Pbaerarara Society 

As revealed in FR13, Anauroch, the major 
population of Phaerimm known to exist in 
Faerun today is trapped in the Buried 
Realms beneath Anauroch; walled in by 
mighty magics created by the Sharn (them 
selves detailed in The Ruins of UnderMoun - 
tain boxed set). Their numbers are 
unknown; but are thought to be less than 
200 . 

The Phaerimm who lurk in and beneath 
Myth Drannor are far fewer-probably for 
ty in all. lb avoid being found and attacked 
by the Sharn, the baatezu and others of 
power who venture into Myth Drannor on 
occasion; they (for now) keep to the conceal 
ment of the mythal; using slaves to extend 
their reach out into the Dalelands. 

Phaerimm are always at war with each 
other; in subtle confrontations of influence; 
outmaneuvering; and alliances. One 
Phaerimm rarely tells another of intruders 
or impending attacks, but Phaerimm almost 
never attack each other in open battle, and 
always join forces if attacked by intruders 
or known foes. 

Each Phaerimm spends its existence in 
plotting against other Phaerimm, and in 
creasing its personal power. It does this by 
magical experimentation and study, the ac 
quiring and training of slave creatures, sub 
verting or slaying the slaves of other 
Phaerimm, and devising elaborate traps to 
guard against intruders of all sorts (from 
other Phaerimm to humans). 

Collectively, the Phaerimm desire to ex 
pand their power to rule a human surface 
realm without incurring the wrath of an as 
sembled human army, a host of baatezu or 
Sharn, or magically-strong foes. They meet 
from time to time to agree on some ground 
rules to keep one Phaerimm from killing an 
other in their struggles for supremacy, and 
to further their collective aims. 


Currently, Sembia seems the logical target 
for their eventual rule, but several 
Phaerimm favor taking control of a smaller 
surface stronghold or territory first (Ar- 
chendale, perhaps, or Battledale, Mistledale, 
or even Hillsfar) to acquire a surface base, 
and to practice controlling lesser creatures 
without revealing their own mind-control 
or presence. Most Phaerimm think this is a 
good idea, but many fear the risk of being 
discovered (and forewarning the humans of 
Sembia) is very great and none of the 
Phaerimm can agree on which realm they 
should practice on first. As a result, all of 
them are pursuing their own individual 
plans for conquest. The knowledge and 
powers of adventurers who venture into 
Myth Drannor, and stray into the clutches of 
the Phaerimm, feature highly in these plans. 

A T ypical Phaem'rara LaiR 

Phaerimm usually dwell in subterranean 
rooms or caverns. These lairs are always 
guarded by traps and slaves who can't use 
magic, and give a Phaerimm a refuge and a 
place to store its treasure (magical items and 
spellbooks). 

The visible door to such a chamber is al 
ways a trap, and the spellbook most used by 
a Phaerimm always floats in a spellfield, but 
other details of a lair may vary. 

Phaerimm Traps 

Phaerimm employ both magical and me 
chanical traps. Tb avoid making this entire 
work a guide to Phaerimm traps, the mecha 
nisms and spells underlying such traps 
aren't given here. The most common traps 
are: 

1. Pit and block: Any weight makes a 
10' x io' floor section collapse, and a block 
of slightly smaller dimensions to fall from 















above. The victim must make two dexterity 
checks. If the first fails, the victim falls into 
the pit, and can't avoid the block (typical fall 
ing damage is 2d6; 2 segments later, block 
hits for typical crushing impact damage of 
5d4). 

If first the check succeeds, the victim man 
ages to avoid falling into the pit; and makes a 
second check. If it is successful, the victim 
scrambles clear entirely, avoiding all dam 
age. If it fails, the victim takes 3d4 points of 
"glancing blow" damage from the falling 
block (which ends up in pit), and at the DM's 
option may have one or more limbs 
smashed and rendered useless. 

2. Spell trigger: The entry of a living be 
ing or any weight into a particular area, or 
the opening of a door or the picking of a 
lock, unleashes a spell on the triggering be 
ing, or on a set area (e.g. a doorway or corri 
dor the triggering being has already passed 
through), so that any waiting party gets hit. 

The spell may be any magic known to the 
Phaerimm (they delight in discovering spells 
that they keep secret from their fellows, to 
gain an edge, so the spell could be anything), 
but the most common magics used in such a 
trap are (roll dl2 for random determina 
tion): 

01. reverse gravity 

02. flaming sphere (forms around triggering 
being, and rolls away along that being's en 
try path) 

03. wall of fire (forms along the length of a 
narrow passage leading to the lair or pro 
tected area) 

04. chain lightning (strikes triggering being 
first) 

05. dancing fire (detailed in this book; forms 
at trigger area, and moves toward trigger 
ing being) 

06. toothed tentacle (detailed in this book; 
forms at trigger area, and attacks triggering 
being) 

07. forcelash (detailed in this book; forms at 


trigger area, and attacks triggering being) 
08. spell fangs (detailed in this book; forms 
at trigger area, and attacks triggering being) 
09. Evard's black tentacles (forms around 
triggering being, extending back in a 10' 
wide path along the being's route to the trig 
ger, until spell limits reached) 

10. crushing sphere (detailed in this book; 
forms around triggering being) 

11. cone of cold 

12. forcecage (surrounds triggering being) 

All of these spells take effect as if they 
were cast directly by the Phaerimm who set 
them (i.e. by a wizard of 30th level or so). If 
the Phaerimm has access to guardian crea 
tures that can be put into temporal stasis 
linked to the trap spell (so that its triggering 
releases them), such creatures are present, 
and attack all non-Phaerimm that they en 
counter. 

Such beings tend to be monsters that do 
not destroy any valuable items intruders 
might carry, or devour all of their prey so 
that the Phaerimm cannot question it by lat 
er use of necromantic spells. The Phaerimm 
capture these by means of magic and by 
hired or magically-controlled agents operat 
ing throughout Faerun. Although almost 
any creature that a Phaerimm can handle 
may be encountered, typical guardian mon 
sters used are (roll d8 for random determi 
nation): 

01. Id4 stirges 

02. 1 (odd roll) or 2 (even roll) gargoyles 
03. Id4 volts (detailed in MC14) 

04. Mimic (usually sited to attack triggering 
being from above or behind) 

05. Id4 large spiders 

06. Id4 normal poisonous snakes 

07. Id20 crawling claws (detailed in MC3 ) or 

roll again, doubling quantity of monsters 

that appear 

08. Id4 winged serpents (detailed in MC13) 
or DM's choice 














The Phaemmm 



In a pinch, Phaerimm use hobgoblins, 
trolls, and the like as guardians, but they 
prefer creatures who can immobilize or 
capture an intruder alive and relatively 
whole, for later questioning-or who can 
slay without destroying items or devouring 
the victim, rendering it useless for necro 
mantic questioning and scrutiny. 

3. Stonesmash: The entry of a living being 
or any weight into a particular area, or the 
opening of a door or the picking of a lock, 
causes an enspelled area of stone to grow an 
amorphous, flexible, stony pseudopod and 
strike at the intruder. 

The arm is AC1 and has 33 hit points. It 
attacks once per round, at THACO 7, and 
smashes victims for 4d4 points of crushing 
damage (a fragile worn or carried item must 
make a saving throw if a struck target fails a 
dexterity check). The arm can extend up to 
12', and its base can move along through ad 
jacent stone (from where it appears) at MV 
6. Dispel magic causes it to freeze for ld4 
rounds; "killing" it by dealing it 34 or more 
hp causes it to shatter, fall apart, and then 
vanish. If a target passes beyond its reach, it 
will retract into the stone-but will lash out 
again at any non-Phaerimm that moves into 
its range without being triggered by the spe 
cific movement, entry, or act that caused it 
to first appear. 

4. Whirlsting: The entry of a living being in 
to a particular area causes a magical whirl 
wind: a violent spiral of air currents roars into 
being, in a lO'-radius column extending from 
the floor to the ceiling, centered on the in 
truder. This column does not move from the 
location where it appears, but this location 
typically blocks movement past it, along a pas 
sage or through an entryway. 

In the whirlwind are 4d6 daggers, arrows, 
crossbow bolts, glass shards, broken-off sta 
lactite tips, or even fangs taken from slain 


beasts. These may be invisible until the trap 
is triggered, may be levitating at ceiling level 
or unseen behind a curtain or other barrier, 
or may be merely lying around on the floor. 

The whirlwind does no damage by itself 
(though it spoils vision, missile fire, and 
missile-like spells trying to pass through it), 
but any being in contact with it will be struck 
for 1 point of damage for each sharp, mobile 
object in the whirlwind; beings trying to pass 
through the whirlsting require an entire 
round to struggle through, and take 2 hp of 
damage per sharp object. A being who trig 
gers the whirlsting and keeps moving takes 
only 1 hp of damage per sharp object from the 
forming whirlwind, in passing. 

A dispel magic causes a whirlsting to col 
lapse; this process requires 1 round. It will 
reappear if any being steps into the trigger 
ing area again. 

When triggered, a whirlsting lasts for 1 
turn; it can reappear a round after that if 
triggered again, without limits to the num 
ber of times it can appear in a day. 

Spell fields 

Within a lair, valued possessions of a 
Phaerimm are usually guarded by 
spellfields: glowing areas of light that sur 
round the items. The ready spellbook of a 
Phaerimm usually floats in midair, open, in 
the midst of a floor-to-ceiling shaft of light. 

If a living being enters a spellfield without 
uttering its password, a spell takes effect on 
the being. This is often a polymorph or pet 
rification magic, but may be any sort of 
spell. A spellfield may cast a different spell 
(from a roster of up to 6) each time it is trig 
gered, in random order or a set sequence, 
but it can only unleash one spell per trigger 
ing. If two or more beings try to enter the 
field at the same time, the spell is cast at all 
of them. The creator of the spellfield can 
subvocalize (soundlessly mouth) the pass- 














word, and need not speak it aloud. 

If a non-living item enters a field (a weap 
on, tool, reaching aid, missile, or undead), 
the field reacts with a fieldlash discharge: 
ldl2 hit points of electrical damage are 
dealt to the item per wizard level of the 
Phaerimm who created the field). Items 
must save vs. electricity to avoid destruc 
tion, and in any event are hurled at least 10' 
away from the field. 

All of these effects are conducted to any 
living being in contact with the non-living 
item (such as a human using a 10' pole to 
reach into the field). Any such beings are al 
lowed saving throws to take only half the 
electrical damage, and if they try to grab the 
book or poke it out of the field with the non 
living item, must make a successful constitu 
tion check to do so (overcoming the 
convulsions that the electrical current cre 
ates in them). 

A few spellfields have a fieldlash as their 
only power, and do not unleash spells. 

The spells used to create Phaerimm traps 
are not given in this set; they are typically 
written on scrolls concealed outside the lair 
or behind the walls of a lair, not in visible 
spellbooks. Particularly paranoid Phaerimm 
sometimes set out a book that is purely a 
trap, and contains no spells at all, or only 
harmful explosive runes or the like. 

PbaeRirara 

WizaRdRc/ 

Phaerimm seize any magic they can, and 
have become experts at adapting the spells 
of human wizards to their own use. 
Phaerimm don't use material components, 
but may keep such substances in their lairs 
as treasure to reward, trade with, or sell to 
other beings; a cornered Phaerimm may 
bargain for its life with such wares. The 
spellbooks of human wizards are retained; a 


Phaerimm's own spellbook will contain a hu 
man spell (copied out as it originally ap 
peared) plus its own version. Phaerimm do 
this because they've learned that other 
Phaerimm may develop superior versions of 
spells, and the only way to derive their own 
matching or even better variant is to either 
seize the spell intact from the Phaerimm 
who created it (an almost impossible task), 
or go back to the human original and re 
develop their own. Phaerimm can use the 
verbal-only spells of dragons (some are 
given in the FORI Draconomicon source- 
book) without any modifications. 

Phaerimm advance in levels as human 
wizards do, but without any school restric 
tions. Most have attained 30th to 36th level 
(few human minds have the breadth to hold 
so many spells without insanity or feeble 
mindedness resulting, so humans of such 
levels are very few-unless they have 
achieved demipowerhood). 

Tb determine the spell capacity of a given 
Phaerimm, consult the table below. 

Expanded Wizard Spell Progression 
Level Spells (1st to 9th, left to right) 


30 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

6 

* 

6 

31 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

32 

8 

8 

8 

8 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

33 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

7 

7 

34 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

35 

9 

9 

9 

9 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

36 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

8 

8 

37 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

38 

10 

10 

10 

10 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

39 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

9 

9 

40 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 
















Tbe PhaeRiroro 



OtbeRS TRyiag To Use 
Pbaerarara Spells 

A human wizard trying to use a Phaerimm 
version of a spell that doesn't require mate 
rial components has only a slim chance to do 
so: roll percentile dice ; trying to match or 
roll under a total comprising the wizard's in 
telligence score plus 1 point for each wizard 
level of experience attained; to achieve suc 
cess. If successful, the wizard can use the 
spell thereafter but can't teach it to others 
unless they successfully grasp it by the same 
process. If a wizard fails to grasp a 
Phaerimm spell, another attempt to compre 
hend it can be made whenever the mage 
reaches a new level of experience (the roll is 
made against the wizard's new, improved 
chance). 

Phaerimm collect any and all spells they 
can, even if puny, flawed, or obsolete; one 
never knows when something might come 
in useful. They are fully aware of the my- 
thal's powers, and will not normally memo 
rize spells prohibited by the mythal (such as 
detect thought ) unless planning an expedi 
tion outside the mythal's confines. 

Weaoing the Mytha\ 

Once a day, any Phaerimm can weave my- 
thal, a special ability acquired through cen 
turies of exposure to the mythal, and use of 
it (this is not a spell, or anything that adven 
turers can quickly learn or acquire). The act 
of weaving the mythal requires 1 round of 
concentration (during which no exacting 
tasks such as spellcasting, reading, picking 
locks, tying knots, writing, or the like are 
possible). This concentration may be per 
formed throughout combat, but is ruined if 
the Phaerimm tries to aim missile weapons 
of any sort, is attacked by psionics or any 
spells that work on the wind, or takes 22 or 

more hit points of physical damage in the 


round. 

Otherwise, the weaving is successful. A 
weaving affects only a 50' radius area with 
in the mythal, and its effects last only 4 
rounds. The area is centered on the weaver 
unless the weaver specifically chooses to 
site it elsewhere (its focus must be within 
120' of the weaver in any case). During that 
time, any single spell chosen by the weaver 
that is normally prohibited or warped by 
the mythal may be cast normally within the 
spherical area (the mythal will not affect it). 
Wild magic effects of any sort cannot occur 
within the woven sphere, whose bounda 
ries can be seen as a sort of hazy webwork 
of radiant lines, and all healing spells cast 
within the sphere achieve their maximum 
possible hit points and other healing effects, 
regardless of the weaver's wishes. 

A woven sphere cannot be collapsed be 
fore the 4 rounds have passed, by the weav 
er or any magical means. Its effects extend 
to all sources of spells, not just the weaver, 
so that a Phaerimm who used a weaving to 
enable hold monster spells to work might 
face hostile hold monster spells from foes, 
or enable a servitor or ally to cast a hold 
monster, not merely itself. Magical item dis 
charges are also aided by a weaving, but on 
ly if they are healing magics (see above) or 
exactly duplicate a specific spell named as 
operable by the weaver. 
















Carried, By Level: 

1st 

chill touch 
color spray 
dancing fire* 
feather fall 

magic missile x 3 (each spell generates 5 
missiles) 

2nd 

flaming sphere 
pyrotechnics 
stinking cloud 
toothed tentacle* X2 
web X2 

3rd 

blackblast* 
dispel magic 
dweomer vortex* 
fireball 
lightning bolt 


Sample PbaeRi'rara Spell 
Rosters 

Three sets of sample spells that an encoun 
tered Phaerimm might have memorized are 
presented here for DM use in encounters: 
one for a 30th-level Phaerimm, one for a 
34th-level, and one for a 36th-level entity 
who's prepared for a foray outside the my- 
thaL Asterisks denote spells detailed in this 
volume; boldface entries are spells found in 
the FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Adventures 
tome, and spells in double parentheses are 
found in FRQ1, Haunted Halls of Evening- 
star. For the convenience of DMs lacking 
Realms-specific spell sources, the first 
Phaerimm presented uses only spells from 
this set and the Player's Handbook. 

30th-Level Phaerimm 
Spells: 777777766 












protection from normal missiles 

meteor swarm 

vampiric touch 

mystic sphere* 
power word, kill 

4th 

EvarcTs black tentacles 

time stop 

fire shield 

34th-Level Phaerimm 

forcelash* 
minor creation 

Spells: 888888888 

polymorph other 

Carried, By Level: 

spell fangs* 

1 st 

wall of fire 

color spray 
dancing fire* 

5th 

feather fall 

blastcloak* 

fogbolt* 

cone of cold X 2 

magic missile X 4 (each spell generates 5 

misspell mantle* 
passwall 

missiles) 

wall of force X 2 

2 nd 

flaming sphere 

6 th 

flying fist 

chain lightning 

((ray of Ondovir)) 

crushing sphere* 

stinking cloud 

disintegration 

toothed tentacle* x 2 

heal self* x 3 

vocalize 

vampiric lash* 

web 

7th 

3rd 

delayed blast fireball 

blackblast* 

draincone* 

dispel magic 

forcecage 

dweomer vortex* 

limited wish 

fireball 

reverse gravity 

hold vapor 

spell turning 

lightning bolt 

weirdshield* 

8th 

protection from normal missiles 
vampiric touch 

incendiary cloud 

4th 

mystic shield* 

Evard's black tentacles 

polymorph any object 

fire shield 

power word, blind 

forcelash* 

Serten's spell immunity x 2 

polymorph other 
((speak with dead)) 

9th 

spell fangs* 

energy drain 

thunderlance 

gate 

wall of fire 














Tbe Pbaem'ram 



5th 

blastcloak* 
cone of cold X 2 
ironguard 
misspell mantle* 
passwall 

shroud of flame 

wall of force 

6 th 

chain lightning 
crushing sphere* 
disintegration 
heal self* X 3 

power word, silence 

vampiric lash* 

7th 

delayed blast fireball 
draincone * 
forcecage 
limited wish 
reverse gravity 
spectral guard 
spelltrap 
weirdshield* 

8 th 

incendiary cloud 
mystic shield* 
polymorph any object 
power word, blind 
Serten's spell immunity x 2 
prismatic wall 
sunburst 

9th 

energy drain 
gate 

master undead 

meteor swarm 
mystic sphere* 
power word, kill 

spellstrike 

time stop 


36th-Level Phaerimm 
Spells: 999999988 

Carried, By Level: 

1 st 

charm person 
dancing fire* x 2 
feather fall 
fogbolt* 

magic missile X 4 (each spell generates 5 
missiles) 

2 nd 

detect thought* 
flaming sphere 
flying fist 
((ray of Ondovir)) 
stinking cloud 
toothed tentacle* X 2 
vocalize 
web 

3rd 

blackblast* 
dispel magic 
dweomer vortex* 
fireball 
hold person 
hold vapor 
lightning bolt 

protection from normal missiles 
vampiric touch 

4th 

charm monster 
Evard's black tentacles x 2 
forcelash* 
polymorph other 
((speak with dead)) 
spell fangs* 
thunderlance 
wall of fire 

5th 

blastcloak* 















cone of cold 
domination 
feeblemind 
hold monster 
ironguard 
misspell mantle* 
shroud of flame 
wall of force 

6th 

chain lightning X2 
crushing sphere* 
disintegration 
heal self* x 3 

power word, silence 

vampiric lash* 

7th 

delayed blast fireball 
draincone* 
forcecage 
limited wish 
reverse gravity 
spectral guard 
spelltrap 

teleport without error 
weirdshield* 

8th 

mystic shield* 
polymorph any object X 2 
power word; blind x 2 
Serten's spell immunity X 2 
prismatic wall 
sunburst 

9th 

energy drain 
master undead 
meteor swarm x 2 
mystic sphere* 
power word; kill 
spellstrike X2 
time stop 












jl. 4 

c - 


EBS 

- ". 

¦ 

• ¦'? 

f 

r 

ir ; 

PtaaeRirara Spells 



- 




This chapter details a handful of the many 
rare spells used by the Phaerimm. DMs 
should devise their own Phaerimm spells; 
these fell creatures also use any wizard 
spells desired from the Players Handbook, 
Tbme of Magic, and the FORGOTTEN 
REALMS(r) Adventures sourcebook. 

Although Phaerimm experiment with 
and research magic much as human wiz 
ards do, they also possess the ability to 
choose a single spell of each level to be 
adopted as "natural" The spell (which can 
never be changed, once chosen) is re 
tained in their brain structure. Phaerimm 
regain chosen "natural" spells innately, 
without study, every day. If a Phaerimm 
memorizes additional spells of a sort it 
"naturally" knows (e.g. a Phaerimm "natu 
rally" knows magic missile , but wants to 
carry three more magic missiles than the 
one naturally regained a day after cast 
ing), study time for each such spell is 
halved. 

Phaerimm share this ability with drag 
ons, and also share the power of unleash 
ing spells with but a thought. Some sages 
believe dragonkind and Phaerimm are an 
ciently related because of this, but there is 
no further evidence of any connection. 

Phaerimm are masters of magic; a few 
sages believe their meddling created most 
of the magic-using monsters that menace 
the Realms today (including, perhaps, the 
beholder races!). Even the least experi 
enced and powerful Phaerimm can de 
velop strange and terrifying new magics 
(providing ideal opportunities for testing 
or introducing new spells into a cam 
paign), and the veterans of the race know 
or can anticipate every nuance and side- 
effect of magic they see being wielded. No 
elder Phaerimm will be caught unawares 
by a spell's range, precise effects, the re 
sults of its combination with other magics, 
or the like. 


Phaerimm cast spells by silent force of 
will; spell components listed are for hu 
mans and others casting these spells. 

WizaRd Spells 

Ffftst Leael Spells 

Dancing Fire (Evocation) 

Range: 10 yards 
Components: V 
Duration: ld6 + 3 rounds 
Casting Time: 1 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell creates a flashing, leaping, semi 
circular horizontal arc of flame in midair. 
(The spell range refers to how distant 
from the caster the arc can be willed to 
appear.) 

The arc is 12' from end to end, and 2' 
thick. It moves steadily, 10' per round, 
from its point of origin in a direction set at 
the time of casting (and unalterable there 
after), until the spell expires or the arc 
strikes a solid barrier. If it burns through 
such a barrier, the arc continues on in the 
same direction until spell expiration. 

The flames do 3d4 hp of damage to each 
being they contact, and force saving 
throws vs. magical fire on all flammable 
items (cloth, paper, etc.) they touch. Strik 
ing a target does not slow or stop the arc; 
one being cannot shield another from its 
effects. 


f "a 

' 45 I 








Fogbolt (Evocation) 

Range: 10 yards 
Components: V,S,M 
Duration: 2d4 rounds 
Casting Time: 1 
Area of Effect: One creature 
Saving Throw: Special 

This spell creates a flying teardrop of fog 
like vapor, and hurls it any one being cho 
sen by the caster. The target creature is 
enveloped in an aura of thick, smoke-like 
fog, and temporarily blinded (use "Star 
light" attack/damage effects from Table 
72: Optional Degrees of Darkness, in "Vi 
sion and Light" in the DMG). 

Any fiery light sources (torches, candle 
lamps, and open lanterns) carried by, or in 
contact with, the target (or, the flames 
may be the target) gets a saving throw vs. 
magical fire. If this fails, the flames are in 
stantly extinguished, and can't be re 
ignited by any means (their fuel won't 
burn) for 2d4 rounds. 

The target creature is allowed a saving 
throw against the spell. If this is success 
ful, the fog cloud dissipates on the round 
after striking; if not, it clings to the target, 
foiling vision-related spells, missile aiming, 
spying attempts on surroundings, and the 
like, by reducing the range of effective vi 
sion to less than 1 foot from the eyes. 

The fog lasts for 2d4 rounds. If an affect 
ed victim touches another creature within 
4 rounds of first being enveloped, the sec 
ond creature must save vs. spell. If the 
save fails, the spell effects are transferred 
(regardless of the intent or desires of the 
already-affected, initial victim) to the sec 
ond creature. This holds true for fog- 
shrouded object targets touched by a 
living creature. 

All Phaerimm are immune to this spell; 
its fog will not cling to them. In hot, day 


time desert conditions, the fog lasts only 
ld6 rounds (ld4 if strong winds are 
present, including magical gusts of wind), 
but boils away as steam, scalding any crea 
tures in it for 1-2 hp damage per contact 
(an enveloped target being suffers ld4 
points of damage per round). 

The material component of this spell is a 
large drop of water or spittle, or a drop of 
sweat, let fall into smoke of any sort. 

Secood Leoel Spells 

Detect Thought (Greater Divination) 

Range: 10 yards/level 
Components: V 
Duration: Special 
Casting Time: 2 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows the caster to detect the 
presence and precise location of intelli 
gent thoughts (i.e. the mental activity of 
creatures with an intelligence of 5 or 
greater, except those whose thoughts are 
shielded by psionic ability or by spells). 
Solid barriers do not affect this detection, 
and its probing allows detection of all the 
separate sources of thought in a group of 
beings, and hints as to each thinker's gen 
eral inclination (i.e. angry, bent on killing, 
sad, confused, searching for something, 
alert) and mental strength (i.e. psionic 
powers or the ability to wield spells). 
Thoughts cannot be read by means of this 
spell. 

If a psionic power is used, a spell cast, or 
a magical item activated by a being under 
surveillance by means of this spell, the 
"watching" caster learns the precise na 
ture of the power or magic used, and any 
words of activation, spellcasting, or con 
trol. 

















Pbaem'mm SpeJIs 




This spell lasts up to 1 turn, unless end 
ed earlier by the unleashing of any other 
spell by the caster. Phaerimm are immune 
to this spell; they radiate a confusing 
screen of mental chaos equal in effects to 
a mind blank. 

Phaerimm use this spell to find beings 
masquerading as stone statues, part of 
their surroundings, and the like by means 
of magic-or to prevent ambushes when 
heading into an area known to contain en 
emies. The spell does detect the scrying of 
long-distance eavesdroppers using wizard 
eyes and the like, but not who or where 
these spying beings are. 

Note: This spell does not function with 
in Myth Drannor, due to the inhibitions of 
the mythal. 

Toothed Tentacle (Evocation) 

Range: 10 yards 
Components: V,S,M 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Casting Time: 2 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell creates a shadowy, insubstantial 
"tentacle" or flexible arm extending out 
from the caster to the limits of spell range. 
This weightless, retractile limb ends in a 
cluster of long-toothed, snapping mouths, 
ld4 + 2 in number (round roll up, to an 
even sum). 

These mouths are solid and very real, 
and bite, slash, and savage foes. They can 
be attacked by up to three enemies at 
once, but can only strike at more than one 
target (up to the maximum of three) if the 
targets are grouped around the duster of 
mouths to engage them. 

The mouths are AC 5 and have 14 hit 
points each. They bite for 2d4 points of 
damage each, every round. When a 


mouth is "killed," it fades away, taking a 
second mouth with it; if this leaves no 
mouths, the spell is ended. 

Only the mouths and their cluster of eel 
like "necks" can be attacked; the shadowy 
tentacle cannot be hit or harmed (except 
by application of a dispel magic, which 
ends the spell instantly). The tentacle can 
be passed through freely, and even be in 
tersected by solid barriers and objects 
(though the caster must be able to see 
foes, to use the mouths against them), 
without harm to the caster or the spell. 

The caster gains no benefit of hit points, 
vitality, blood-food, or the like through the 
tentacle. The caster must concentrate on 
directing the tentacle; if he is killed, loses 
consciousness, or undertakes the study or 
casting of another spell, the tentacle fades 
away and this spell is ended. 

The material components are a hair and 
three teeth (they need not all be from the 
same corpse or species). 

TtaiRd LeoeJ SpeJJs 

Backblast (Abjuration) 

Range: 0 
Components: V 
Duration: Special 
Casting Time: 3 
Area of Effect: One being 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell enables the caster to hurl back 
spells involving flames or fiery explosions 
(only; not heat alone, or lightning-like elec 
trical energy discharges) automatically at 
their sourcefs). Magical item effects and 
even the most powerful spells (such as me 
teor swarm ) are affected. 

The spell protects a single being, usually 
the caster, but it may be another touched 
during spellcasting; once casting is com- 





& 













plete, the protection cannot be transfer 
red. 

Once cast, this spell continues until it is 

activated, expires (it lasts 1 turn plus 1 

turn/level, but ends when activated, usu 
ally much earlier), dispel magic is cast on 
the protected being, or the being dies or 
moves from one plane of existence to an 
other. 

Otherwise, it exists as an invisible aura 
around the protected being, operating 
without any concentration and without 
disturbing subsequent spellcasting by the 
protected being. When a fiery spell attack 
strikes, the backblast functions automati 
cally; the being cannot choose to take the 
damage and keep the protection for later. 
However, the backblast also prevents any 
disruption of spellcasting or other activity 
on the part of the being it protects (and 
protects all flammable items on the being 
from any harm; they need not make sav 
ing throws). 

Once activated, a backblast works for a 
single round and then ends. It can reflect 
back all fiery attacks in that round: for ex 
ample, several different fireballs. 

A backblast will send back a spell (a de 
layed blast fireball, for instance) over vast 
distances to a source who has left the 
scene-but can't follow a source onto an 
other plane. In such cases, the attacking 
magic is negated. 

Dweomer Vortex (Evocation) 

Range: 10 yards 
Components: V 
Duration: Special 
Casting Time: 3 

Area of Effect: Cone 10 / long, 4' radius ta 
pering to 6" radius at caster's end 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell creates a shimmering conical 


field in midair, its small end towards the 
caster, and its circular open end of 4'- 
radius size. The cone moves in response to 
the wielder s thought, floating freely 
through the air at up to 60'/round, so long 
as it strikes no solid barriers (which it 
won't affect, but can't pass through). If it 
encounters magical areas of effect (includ 
ing astral silver cords, and not-yet- 
triggered magical traps), it whirls, flashes, 
and "drinks" them. 

A vortex can drain up to six spell levels; 
it can destroy six lst-level spells, or any 
combination of spells up to a total of six 
spell levels, before vanishing in a harm 
less, spectacular whirl of winking lights. A 
spell exceeding these limits is destroyed as 
the vortex collapses. 

A dweomer vortex is not ended or af 
fected by its caster launching other spells, 
or using magical items. A dispel magic 
causes it to collapse while absorbing the 
dispel magic spell. 

Dweomer vortices can't affect anti 
magic shells , globes of invulnerability, or 
prismatic spheres , walls, or similar magi 
cal effects. On contact they destroy, and 
are destroyed by, minor globes of invul 
nerability These vortices don't gather or 
transmit "drained" spells or spell energy 
to the caster. 

FoaRtta Level Spells 

Forcelash (Evocation) 

Range: 80 feet 
Components: V,S 
Duration: 4 rounds 
Casting Time: 4 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: Special 

This spell creates a whip of shimmering 
force, projecting from the caster's arm (or 















another limb or protrusion of the caster's 
choice) to the limits of spell range. Con 
trolled by the caster's will, this crackling 
band of force can be directed to strike at 
one being per round. It penetrates shield 
spells and other magical barriers of third 
level or less, and always hits, doing the 
target being 6d4 points of damage. 

A struck being must make two saving 
throws. The first, if successful, means the 
victim takes only half damage (3d4); the 
second governs the target's mobility. If 
successful, the victim can move and act 
normally; if it fails, the victim is rooted to 
the spot, body convulsed with the energy 
discharge of the forcelash. This lessens ar 
mor class by 2 points, prevents the victim 
from moving, launching attacks, or aiming 
or readying items, and ruins any spellcast 
ing attempted by the victim. 

The forcelash can be directed at differ 
ent targets in each round, or kept striking 
at a single target (if so, the 6d4 points of 
damage, and the saving throws, apply for 
each round). It does not cause objects to 
ignite, but may at the DM's discretion 
force a dexterity check to see if a convuls 
ing target drops items. Fragile dropped 
items may require their own saving 
throws. 

If another being inadvertently or delib 
erately intercepts a forcelash by moving 
into its path, they immediately take 3d4 
points of damage, but the already-struck 
target is instantly freed from any immobil 
ity due to convulsions, and receives ld3 
hp (of the damage already done by the for 
celash in the round) back. These hit points 
are restored as the broken lash discharges 
its energy into the target. 

Interrupting a forcelash does not end 
the spell-and on the following round, the 
caster still has a free choice of targets 
from all visible beings within range; the 
being who interrupted the lash is not au 


tomatically the next target. 

A forcelash does not transfer any dam 
age it does to its caster as hit points 
gained. 

Spell Fangs (Evocation) 

Range: 16 yards 
Components: V,S,M 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Casting Time: 4 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell is a more powerful version of 
the toothed tentacle spell. It creates a 
shadowy, insubstantial "tentacle" or flexi 
ble, retractile arm extending from the 
caster out to the limits of spell range. This 
weightless arm ends in a cluster of ld6 + 2 
long-toothed, snapping mouths (round roll 
up, to an even number). 

These are solid and very real, and exist 
to bite, slash, and savage opponents. They 
can be attacked by up to three creatures 
at once, but can only strike at more than 
one target if the beings are grouped 
around the cluster of mouths to engage 
them (to the maximum of three). 

The mouths bite for 2d6 points of dam 
age each, every round, are AC 5, and have 
14 hit points each. Every time a mouth is 
"killed," it fades away, taking another 
mouth with it; if this leaves no mouths, the 
spell is ended. 

Damage done by the mouths is gained 
by the caster of the spell, being used to 
heal any existing damage first. Excess, 
"phantom" hit points gained in this way 
are retained for two turns before fading 
away; any damage suffered during this 
time is subtracted from them first. 

Only the mouths and their cluster of eel 
like "necks" can be attacked; the shadowy 
tentacle cannot be hit or harmed (except 












by application of a dispel magic, which 
ends the spell instantly). The tentacle can 
be passed through freely, and even be in 
tersected by solid barriers and objects 
(though the caster must be able to see its 
foes, to use the mouths against them), 
without harm to the caster or the spell. 

The caster must concentrate on direct 
ing the tentacle; if he is killed, loses con 
sciousness, or undertakes the study or 
casting of another spell, the tentacle fades 
away and the spell ends. "Phantom'' hit 
points already gained through use of this 
spell are not lost immediately when the 
spell ends-they fade only through time, 
or are used up by damage. 

The material components of the spell 
are a hair and at least three teeth, which 
may be from any creatures (and need not 
be from the same corpse or species). 

Fifth LeoeJ Spells 

Blastcloak (Abjuration) 

Range: 0 
Components: V 

Duration: 1 turn + 1 turn/level 
Casting Time: 5 
Area of Effect: One being 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell is a more powerful version of 
backblast ; it hurls back spells involving 
flames or fiery explosions (only; not heat 
alone, or lightning-like electrical energy 
discharges) cast at the being protected. 
Such attacks (including magical item ef 
fects and even the most powerful spells, 
such as meteor swarm) are cast automati 
cally back at their source(s), or the pro 
tected being can specifically direct them 
elsewhere. 

A blastcloak protects a single being- 
usually the caster, but it may be another 


touched during spellcasting; once casting 
is complete, the protection cannot be 
transferred. 

Once cast, this spell continues until it ex 
pires, dispel magic is cast on the protected 
being, the being dies, or a change of plane 
occurs. It forms an invisible aura around 
the protected being, operating without 
any concentration and without disturbing 
subsequent spellcasting by the protected 
being. 

When a spell attack involving fire 
strikes the protected being, the blastcloak 
functions automatically, preventing dis 
ruption of spellcasting or other activity (it 
protects all flammable items on the being 
from harm; they need not make saving 
throws). A blastcloak is effective against 
multiple fiery attacks during the same 
round. 

A blastcloak will send back a spell (a de 
layed blast fireball, for instance) over vast 
distances to a source that has left the 
scene-but cannot follow a source onto 
another plane. In such cases, the attacking 
magic is merely negated. 

If the protected being is not preoccu 
pied with spellcasting or other complex 
activity during a round in which the blast 
cloak intercepts a fiery attack, the being 
can redirect the spell to take effect in any 
spot the protected being can see (i.e. 
against other foes). The DM must judge 
whether an attack roll is required to hit 
the new target; the effects and damage of 
the attack are unaltered. Incoming fiery 
attacks cause the wearer of a blastcloak to 
feel a tingling, surging sensation; they can 
redirect this at a target they are looking at 
without ever seeing the source of the at 
tack, or precisely what spell or item 
caused it. 


i! 


SEE 


ft 


50 
















Pbaemrara SpeJIs 



Misspell Mantle (Alteration) 

Range: 30 yards 
Components: V 
Duration: Special 
Casting Time: 5 

Area of Effect: One target creature 
Saving Throw: Neg. 


feet, a random, "wild" magical effect, simi 
lar to the discharges of a wand of wonder 
(and possibly harmful to the target crea 
ture) will occur instead. (The "Wild Surge 
Results" table at the beginning of the Tbme 
of Magic can also be used to determine 
what occurs.) The spell or magical item 
charge if any is used. 


This spell enables the caster to create an 
invisible aura around any single creature. 
The target creature will not feel anything, 
and the spell will not take effect until the 
target being uses a magic item or launches 


A dispel magic will remove this unseen 
mantle. An affected target will radiate 
magic strongly. 


a spell. 

At that time, instead of the intended ef- 























Sixth Level Spells 

Crushing Sphere (Evocation) 

Range: 10 yards/level 
Components: V,S 
Duration: 4 rounds 
Casting Time: 6 

Area of Effect: One creature (size L or 
smaller) 

Saving Throw: Special 

This spell instantly creates a sphere of 
force around a single, deliberately-chosen 
target creature, slowing the victim. The 
target creature must be within range, but 
need not be seen by the caster; if this spell 
is cast at a number of invisible or unseen 
creatures, it will "attack" one of them, at 
random. 

The sphere shields the victim against 
both magical and physical attacks from 
outside the sphere (the victim receives a 6- 
point Armor Class benefit, and suffers 
lesser damage from all attacks that do hit: 
- 2 on each die of damage)-but constricts 
the victim as it does so. 

Constricted victims suffer the usual pen 
alties that a slow spell causes: an attack 
roll penalty of -4, loss of any dexterity- 
related combat bonuses, and an Armor 
Class penalty of 4 points (so the victim ulti 
mately benefits only by 2 points in Armor 
Class). 

Constricted victims are prevented from 
making the gestures required in most 
spellcasting (any spell involving a somatic 
component cannot be cast) by the con 
stant, probing pressure of the tightening 
sphere. 

The interior of the sphere jabs at the 
trapped victim with pseudopods of force; 
it does not maintain a smooth concave 
crushing surface as it gets smaller. This 
prevents wings (even magical ones) from 


flying properly within the tightening 
sphere, prohibits the victim from writing 
anything, picking a lock, or performing 
any other task requiring a high level of 
dexterity. 

The constricted victim takes ld4 points 
of damage on the first round, 2d4 on the 
second, 3d4 on the third round, and 4d4 
on the fourth, whereupon the spell ends. 
Constriction damage is not lessened by - 
2 per die by the presence of the sphere; it 
is the sphere itself that does this damage. 

The victim receives an initial saving 
throw against the spell, at -3. If the save 
is successful, the sphere collapses during 
formation, in a spectacular but harmless 
burst of motes of white light, as the force 
of the spell dissipates and is lost. 

The collapsing sphere can sometimes 
deflect attacks launched through it (-1 on 
attack rolls, "2 on missile attack rolls), 
but is gone at the end of the round of cast 
ing, and does the intended victim no dam 
age. 

There is no second chance to save 
against the spell. Magical item effects and 
spells can pass through a crushing sphere 
freely, without harming the sphere itself. 
The victim can freely trigger an item or 
cast a spell in the round in which the 
sphere is cast (and forms), but thereafter 
can only use spells without somatic com 
ponents (gestures) and items that don't re 
quire much room for manipulation (a 
sphere will prevent a rod of lordly might 
from extending into a ladder or climbing 
pole, for instance). Long, rigid carried 
items (such as a quarterstaff, or an 
already-extended rod of lordly might) pre 
vent damage for one round, and permit 
the deformed sphere to do only ld4 points 
of damage per round thereafter. 

An armor, barkskin , shield or similar 
spell protecting the victim reduces the 
damage taken by the victim by ld4 points 
















per round (lowering the damage to zero in 
the first round of constriction). Such spells 
or similar magical item effects cannot 
form around a victim already constricted, 
and are wasted if cast. If they expire while 
the sphere is still in effect, the sphere's 
normal damage (at the duration the 
sphere has reached) is restored, but there 
are no retroactive effects. 

A dispel magic spell destroys a crushing 
sphere instantly and harmlessly. Destruc 
tive spells (such as a fireball) do not harm 
the sphere, but harm any trapped victim 
who is not immune to their effects. 

If a crushing sphere ever comes into 
contact with a wall of force , the sphere 
"drinks" the wall, instantly drawing its 
force into the sphere. The wall vanishes, 
and the duration of the sphere increases 
by the remaining duration of the wall; 
note that during this "extra" time the dam 
age done by the sphere continues to in 
crease by ld4 points per round (so that it 
does 5d4 on the fifth round, 6d4 on the 
sixth, and so on). 

If a crushing sphere ever comes into 
contact with any sort of globe of invulner 
ability or a prismatic spell of any sort, 
there is a spectacular explosion that ends 
both spells instantly (in the case of a pris 
matic barrier spell, such as a sphere or 
wall, this explosion destroys ld4 "layers" 
of color, not the entire spell). 

This blast does the trapped victim 6d6 
points of blast damage, and forces a save 
vs. spell to avoid being feebleminded. The 
same effects will apply to any being touch 
ing any part of, or within, either spell ef 
fect (or area "protected" by such a spell) as 
they make contact. All other beings within 
30' must save vs. spell or take 2d6 points 
of blast damage. All airborne missile 
weapons within 80' of the contact point 
are destroyed or flung away, missing their 
targets. 


A crushing sphere cannot be cast into, 
or inside, an existing globe of invulnerabil 
ity or prismatic magic, or vice versa: such 
magics will simply be wasted when cast, 
without having any effect. 

A crushing sphere cannot form around 
nothing, and cannot be left with an "open 
ing" to trap a victim in later. If a sphere is 
cast around two beings who are touching, 
the desired target will be captured, and 
the other being forced away by the form 
ing sphere. If a sphere is cast around an 
ethereal creature or one that exists in 
more than one plane at a time, the crea 
ture is not trapped-but is forced entirely 
into the "other" plane (the one that the 
crushing sphere was not cast in). This may 
harm or strand the intended victim, who 
may return to the plane it was forced out 
of if it has the power or means to do so, 
but is not allowed back in merely because 
of the failure or expiration of the crushing 
sphere. 

The somatic component of this spell is a 
closing, crushing motion of one of the 
caster's hands. 

Heal Self (Necromancy) 

Range: 0 

Components: V,S,M 
Duration: Special 
Casting Time: 6 
Area of Effect: The caster 
Saving Throw: Special 

This healing spell requires as its material 
components two drops of water, a drop of 
blood, and a gemstone of not less than 100 
gp value. The caster holds these in one 
hand, claps that hand to his body, and in 
tones the spell. A saving throw vs. spell 
must be made. If the throw fails, the cast 
er is healed of 4d8 hit points of damage 
(but cannot gain "extra" hit points by this 




Pbaewrara Spells 



means). Also, any blindness, poison, weak 
ness, or nausea, however caused, is ban 
ished from the caster's body. 

If the throw succeeds, the caster is 
healed of all damage to his body, including 
the restoration of full use to broken limbs 
and organs. All afflictions (including rot 
grub and other parasitic infestations, dis 
eases such as mummy rot, and lycanthro- 
py) are ended. 

In addition, the caster temporarily gains 
1 point of strength, with the applicable bo 
nuses (a being possessing 18 strength at 
tains 19 strength, regardless of any 
percentile normally possessed). This aug 
mentation lasts for 1 turn, plus 1 round/ 
level. The healing effects of the spell, 
whether the saving throw succeeds or 
not, are permanent. 

Vampiric Lash (Evocation, Necro 
mancy) 

Range: 80 feet 
Components: V,S,M 
Duration: 6 rounds 
Casting Time: 6 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: Special 

This spell is a more powerful version of 
the forcelash. It creates a whip of shim 
mering force, projecting from the caster's 
arm (or another limb or protrusion of the 
caster's choice) to the limits of spell range. 
Controlled by the caster's will, this crack 
ling band of force can strike one being per 
round. It penetrates magical barriers of 
fifth level or less, and always hits, doing 
the target 6d6 points of damage. 

A struck being must make two saving 
throws. The first, if successful, means the 
victim takes only half damage (3d6); the 
second governs the target's mobility. If 
successful, the victim can move and act 


normally; if it fails, the victim is rooted to 
the spot, body convulsed. This lessens ar 
mor class by 2 points, prevents the victim 
from moving, launching attacks, or aiming 
or readying items, and ruins any attempt 
ed spellcasting. 

A vampiric lash can be directed at dif 
ferent targets in each round, or strike re 
peatedly at a single target (the 6d6 points 
of damage and the saving throws apply 
for each round). It may at the DM's discre 
tion force dexterity checks to see if con 
vulsing victims drop items; fragile 
dropped items may require their own sav 
ing throws. If another being intercepts a 
vampiric lash by moving into its path, they 
immediately take 3d6 points of damage, 
but the already-struck target is instantly 
freed from any immobility due to convul 
sions. Intercepting the lash does not end 
the spell-and on the following round, the 
caster still has a free choice of targets 
(from all visible beings within range); the 
being who interrupted the lash is not au 
tomatically the next target. 

Each time it is first used in a battle, a 
vampiric lash "drains" 1 hit point from the 
damage it does to foes. All additional dam 
age it does is transferred to its caster, as 
hit points gained. 

Once the caster is at his full normal hit 
point total, he may acquire 2 additional 
"phantom" hit points per experience level. 
These are retained for 24 hours (= 144 
turns) before fading away; any damage 
suffered by the caster is taken first from 
them. When any are so used, further hp 
drained by the lash count to increase the 
"phantom" total to the caster's maximum. 
Additional hit points drained by the lash 
are lost. 














Pb aerzimm Spells 



Seoentte Leoel Spells 

Draincone (Evocation) 

Range: 30 yards 
Components: V 
Duration: Special 
Casting Time: 7 

Area of Effect: Cone 10' long, 4' radius ta 
pering to 6" radius at caster's end 
Saving Throw: None 


its small end towards the caster, and its 
circular open end of 4'-radius size. The 
draincone moves in response to the wield- 
er's thought, floating freely through the 
air at up to 60'/round, so long as it does 
not strike solid barriers (which it doesn't 
affect, but can't pass through). If it en 
counters magical areas of effect (including 
astral silver cords, and waiting but not- 
yet-triggered magical traps), it whirls, 
flashes, and "drinks" them. 


This spell is an improved version of 
dweomer vortex, in which the drained 
spell energy does benefit the caster. It cre 
ates a shimmering conical field in midair, 


A draincone is not ended or affected 
by its caster launching other spells, or 
wielding magical items; it ignores all 
magic caused by its caster. A dispel mag 
ic causes it to collapse while absorbing 















Pteaerarara Spells 




the dispel magic spell. 

A draincone can drain up to 12 spell 
levels, "plus": it can destroy twelve 1st- 
level spells, or any combination of spells 
up to a total of 12 spell levels, before van 
ishing in a harmless, spectacular whirl of 
winking lights-but a spell that exceeds 
the limits of the cone is destroyed as it col 
lapses. 

Draincones cannot affect anti-magic 
shells, or prismatic spheres, walls, or simi 
lar magical effects. They destroy, and are 
destroyed by, globes of invulnerability 
and lesser magical barriers upon contact. 

When a draincone collapses, its caster 
receives all of the spell levels it has ab 
sorbed, to a maximum of 12, as energy 
that must be immediately used to "boost" a 
single existing memorized spell. The spell 
is augmented so that it will do damage, 
and take effect, as if cast by a wizard of 12 
(or however many spell levels were 
drained) levels higher than the caster. If 
the caster has no spells memorized, or 
none that can be augmented in this way, 
the energy fades, and its benefit is lost. 

Weirdshield (Evocation) 

Range: 10 yards 
Components: V,S,M 
Duration: 5 rounds/level 
Casting Time: 7 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: Special 

This spell creates a shimmering, translu 
cent magical barrier that appears at a lo 
cation of the caster's choosing, floating in 
midair. It is shaped like a triangular shield, 
point down, fringed with many tentacles 
that end in human-like hands. 

This ghostly shield can be moved 
about by the caster's will (in a single seg 
ment, whenever not actually spellcast 


ing), at MV 26. 

The weirdshield irresistibly attracts any 
magically-conjured bladed weapons (such 
as a Mordenkainen's sword or blade of 
doom ) within 60' of it, and negates them 
on contact (which occurs one round after 
the shield is formed within range of such 
conjured blades, or they come within its 
range). It also irresistibly attracts any 
swords of dancing within the same range 
and at the same rate, causing them to fall 
lifeless to the ground, temporarily becom 
ing +1 weapons under no being's control. 

If the weirdshield is within 20' of its 
caster, it automatically intercepts any 
magical attacks of 4th level and lower that 
are directed at the caster, and reflects 
them back at their sources. If the distance 
between shield and caster is greater, or 
the caster tries to move it to protect an 
other being, object, or area (blocking a 
doorway, for example), the caster must 
make a successful saving throw vs. spell 
for the shield to intercept a magical attack 
and hurl it back at its source. Otherwise, 
the attack gets through unaltered. 

The shield can make an infinite number 
of such interceptions in a round-and is it 
self destroyed only by dispel magic, the 
death of the caster, contact with a magical 
barrier of 5th level or less (the shield and 
the barrier will destroy each other harm 
lessly but usually with spectacular light 
and sound discharges), or if specifically 
put out of existence by a limited wish or 
wish spell. 

A weirdshield can also be directed to in 
tercept any one being, even incorporeal 
or semi-real beings such as gaseous un 
dead or shadow monsters. While doing so, 
it cannot intercept spell or magical item 
discharge attacks, which automatically 
pass it unless it blocks a doorway through 
which they must pass (whereupon a cast 
er saving throw vs. spell determines the 














tv 



shield's success, as above). 

When directed to intercept a being, the 
shield moves to block its path, and its 
many arms grapple with the being (even if 
incorporeal). The being must make a sav 
ing throw vs. spell, at - 3, to get past the 
barrier. If it succeeds, that specific weird- 
shield can never again affect that specific 
being, or magical attacks launched by it; 
the being can pass through the shield as if 
it does not exist. 

If the saving throw fails, the being is 
halted at the spot where the shield met 
with it, and cannot move away from that 
spot. The being can cast spells, ready 
items, and the like, but cannot launch 
spells or items at the caster, or move hor 
izontally, until it successfully saves against 
the shield's magic. The being is allowed 
another saving throw vs. spell, at - 3, eve 
ry round (whether it struggles against the 
shield or not), and as soon as it makes a 
successful throw, it is free of that particu 
lar weirdshields effects forever. 

A weirdshield can affect only one being 
in this way; unless it blocks a narrow pas 
sage or opening by trapping a being there, 
it cannot prevent other beings from freely 
passing it. Beings cannot aid a trapped be 
ing against the weirdshield by purely 
physical meanings (pulling, for instance, 
or attacking the shield); attempts to do so 
will only harm the trapped being. 

A weirdshield cannot be struck by phys 
ical attacks, or affected by magical attacks 
except as noted above. Magical barriers of 
6th level or greater block its passage, but 
do not affect it; magical attacks of 5th level 
or greater pass it as if it does not exist, but 
do not affect it. Its tentacle-arms cannot 
grasp, wield, deflect, or pluck at weapons 
or other objects, only at beings. 

If the caster successfully uses a weird 
shield to block and trap one being, and 
then moves it to block another being (for 


instance, stops one charging warrior, but 
another slips past and closes with the cast 
er, who frantically switches the shield to 
deal with this new threat), the trapped be 
ing is freed forever from the effects of 
that weirdshield, but the newly selected 
target being encounters and must over 
come the shield in the usual fashion (sav 
ing throw vs. spell at -3). Note that the 
shield's movement is fast enough to over 
take almost any known creature within 
the same round as it looses the first being, 
in most situations. 

The material components of this spell 
are a drop of the caster's saliva or spittle, a 
miniature shield or scrap of armor plate, 
and an arm (either whittled of wood or 
formed of clay, or the actual arm of any 
creature, from mouse to human size). 

Eighth Leoel Spells 

Lifedrain (Alteration) 

Range: 0 

Components: V,S,M 

Duration: Special 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Area of Effect: 70'-radius sphere 

Saving Throw: None 

Use of this mighty spell is thought to have 
created much of the lifelessness at the 
heart of the vast desert of Anauroch! This 
spell affects only water in geographical 
form (lakes, rivers, oceans), or in meteoro 
logical form (rain, snow). It does not affect 
water contained in living things. 

A lifedrain spell destroys water within 
its area of effect-and prevents water 
from existing in the area of effect: water 
cannot fall into, form within, condense 
within, or flow into the spherical area of 
effect of this spell. (Daring wizards some 
times use this spell to lay bare the bottom 


nr. 




EE 

57 
















of a lake or pond, to recover a lost item, or 
to reach a sunken chest or trapdoor.) 

Living creatures find conditions within 
the area of effect to be very, very dry- 
uncomfortably so; for each turn that one 
spends performing any sort of activity ex 
cept simple rest, that creature loses 1 hp 
due to dehydration. (Ikies are told of 
Phaerimm drying off wet slaves and items 
by conveying them from a bath through a 
lifedrain sphere.) Plants cannot grow 
within a lifedrain field-and desert-like 
conditions soon occur. 

A lifedrain cannot be affected by dispel 
magic or water magics: only a limited wish 
or more powerful spell can destroy it. 
Otherwise, it lasts for 1 year per level of 
the caster (but if the caster should die, 
even on another plane or world, it ends 
earlier, at the moment of the caster's 
death). 

Casting a lifedrain permanently drains 1 
hit point from the total possessed by the 
caster. The material components of this 
spell are a piece of bone and a fire of any 
sort and size. The bone is placed in the 
flames during casting, and both are con 
sumed in a flash by the spell. The spell's ar 
ea of effect forms centered on the caster. 


Mystic Shield (Abjuration, Altera 
tion) 

Range: 0 

Components: V,S,M 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Area of Effect: One being 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell creates an invisible aura around 
the caster or a touched spell recipient. It 
moves with the protected being, and pre 
vents all wizard spells of seventh level or 
less, and all priest spells of sixth level or 
less, from having any effect on the being. 

The protected being can, however, cast 
spells and wield magical items normally 
(even on himself, within the aura). This us 
age has no effect on the mystic shield, nor 
does it prevent the protected being from 
successfully summoning a Leomund's se 
cret chest, or using Drawmij's instant 
summons or any other spell that brings 
things to the caster. Magical armor and 
protections worn or used by the protected 
being function normally within the aura. 

1b physical attacks and senses, the mys 
tic shield does not exist. A magical blade 
striking the protected being does only 
physical damage: any magical damage bo 
nuses, attack bonuses, or magical special 
effects are negated. 

The material components of this spell 
are a stone, a drop of blood, a tear from 
the caster's eye, and a clear gemstone of 
not less than 400 gp value. 















Phaenimro SpeJJs 



Ninth Level Spells 

Draindoom (Alteration) 

Range: 0 

Components: V,S,M 

Duration: Permanent until caster's death 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: None 

This deadly variant of the lifedrain spell 
"leapfrogs" out of control, recasting itself 
at random intervals, draining nearby mag 
ic to do so (which is why some areas of 
both Anauroch and Myth Drannor are 


"magic-dead," drinking the magical energy 
of magical items brought into them). 

The spell destroys liquid water (not ice) 
outside the bodies of living things, in a suc 
cession of 70'-radius spheres. The first 
sphere is centered on the caster, and the 
spell will cast itself again 2d 12 times, at 
random locations within 1 mile of the orig 
inal casting site. No one can control where 
these later castings will occur, or when: 
the second always occurs ld4 days after 
the first, the third ldl2, the fourth 2d20, 
and all subsequent spontaneous castings 
are dlOO days after the previous one. 

These spontaneous castings require no 
caster or material components. They al- 



















ways drain any magical items within their 
area of effect (saving throws versus "disin 
tegrate" apply ; to avoid this draining) 
when forming. 

Water cannot fall into; form within, con 
dense within; or flow into the spherical ar 
ea of spell effect. Living creatures find 
conditions in the area uncomfortably dry; 
for each turn spent there doing anything 
more than resting, a creature loses 1 hp 
due to dehydration. Plants can't grow in a 
draindoom field-and desert-like condi 
tions soon occur. 

A draindoom can't be affected by dispel 
magic or water magics: only a limited wish 
spell cast on either the original casting 
site, or the site of the most recent sponta 
neous recasting will halt it (or a properly- 
worded wish spell). Otherwise, its effects 
last and continue until the moment of the 
caster's death. 

Casting a draindoom permanently 
drains ldl2 + ld4 hit points from the cast 
er. If this drain kills the caster, the drain- 
doom takes effect only at two sites: the 
place of casting and one "jump" The ef 
fects last for one year from the moment of 
the caster's death. 

The material components of this spell 
are a piece of bone and a fire of any sort 
and size. The bone is placed in the flames 
during casting, and both are consumed in 
a flash by the spell. The spell's area of ef 
fect is centered on the caster. 


Mystic Sphere (Abjuration, 
Alteration) 

Range: 0 

Components: V,S,M 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Area of Effect: lO'-radius sphere 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell creates an invisible spherical 
field around the caster or a touched spell 
recipient. All wizard spells of eighth level 
or less, and all priest spells of sixth level or 
less, are prevented from having any effect 
within this sphere. 

The area of effect can be moved around 
at the caster's will (at a rate of up to 607 
round, in any direction-including 
through solid objects, or underground). It 
need not remain around the caster, and 
can protect all beings within it (or those 
parts of beings within its confines). 

Beings within a mystic sphere can cast 
spells and wield magical items normally, 
without affecting the sphere. A mystic 
sphere does not prevent beings within it 
from successfully summoning objects 
from outside the sphere, with magic. Mag 
ical armor and protections function nor 
mally within the sphere. 

Tb physical attacks and senses, a mystic 
sphere does not exist. Within its confines, 
a magical weapon does only physical dam 
age: any magical damage bonuses, attack 
bonuses, or magical special effects are ne 
gated. 

The material components of this spell 
are a stone, a tear from the caster's eye, 
and a clear gem of at least 600 gp value. 

Elminster notes that the Phaerimm are 
skilled at magic, and always developing 
new spells! Adventurers, be warned... 















These fell creatures came secretly to Myth 
Drannor at about the same time the elves 
began to leave the Elven Court. Seeking 
powerful magic said to lie in the ruins, the 
Alhoon used their powers to battle the 
Phaerimm, and to sway the wills of priests 
of Bane who came to the ruins into sum 
moning baatezu. As the Alhoon had hoped, 
the Phaerimm and baatezu fought against 
each other, and the Alhoon were able to 
cloak themselves with their powers, and 
search for magic largely unhindered amidst 
the fighting. 

The Alhoon linger in the ruins, for their 
search is not done. They have enlisted na- 
gas, gargoyles, and deepspawn as their new 
troops against the Phaerimm, and keep as 
their next resort the ability to open new 
gates to the Hells, and unleash another army 
of baatezu into the ruins. 

Alhoon are found exploring the crypts 
and hidden rooms of Myth Drannor for 
spellbooks and magical items, or practicing 
the use of spells new to them. The rest of 
the time, they use their arts to remain hid 
den, skulking watchfully through the ruins. 
They are soon aware of most intruders ar 
riving in Myth Drannor, and quick to direct 
such beings into conflict with the 
Phaerimm, or seize magic from them (or 
both). There are no more than forty Alhoon 
in Myth Drannor at present, operating 
alone, in pairs, or in groups of up to six. 
They band together against non-Alhoon, 
and are rarely without bodyguard servant 
monsters such as former adventurers, hob 
goblins, ettins, nagas, gargoyles, and winged 
serpents (both the sort detailed in Volume 

- 3 of the Monstrous Compendium, and a va- 
iety of other snakes-see Volume 1 of the 
Monstrous Compendium-with wings, who 
.re generally MV FI 16 (C), and otherwise 
rentical to their ground-based cousins). 

Alhoon are illithiliches: magic-using out- 

- lsIs. from.mln/i ftatym v*V/c, ViWvfc 'drc- 


fied the ruling elder-brains, to achieve 
lichdom. The high magic resistance of il- 
lithids, coupled with the rarity of their apti 
tude for spellcasting, make Alhoon very 
rare. 

Alhoon resemble living mind flayers; they 
are mauve-skinned beings whose heads 
have four mouth-tentacles and look like oc- 
topi. They stand upright, with a human-like 
frame and limbs, though their hands only 
have three-fingers each. Whereas the skin 
of a living, healthy illithid usually glistens 
with slime, that of an illithilich is dry and of 
ten wrinkled. 

Alhoon hate bright light, but are not 
harmed by it. They do not need to eat, 
drink, or even breathe, and only the great 
est extremes of heat and cold (such as those 
found in magical spells) harm them. They 
do, however, seem to en)oy devouring slugs, 
worms (especially glow-worms) and leeches, 
regarding these as delicacies-so these 
forms of life are rarely found in the ruined 
city. 

The bodies of Alhoon adapt poorly to lich- 
nee state (many magical lichdom processes 
used by humans fail on a strongly-magic re 
sistant mind flayer body), so Alhoon are 
plagued by ongoing skin wrinkling and tis 
sue dessication. 

They counteract this by bathing and by 
drinking aJJ sorts of liquids. Nutrients need 
not be ingested, and poisons absorbed this 
way harm a mind flayer (lowering its hit 
points in the usual way), but cannot "kill" it 
(it reaches a minimum of 6 hp, and takes no 
further damage). The lichnee state neutral 
izes most poisons, healing all damage done 
by them in 2d4 turns. 

Illithiliches also enjoy devouring brains as 
they did in life, but do not need to do so. De 
vouring a brain gives an Alhoon a 3 in 12 
chance of gaining mental "glimpses" of ld!2 
of the brain's stored memories, either at 
nfridum, or 'Oft fne ATnoon concentrates on a 











The Alhoon 



topic, such as magic or treasure locations), 
thoughts most closely related to a chosen 
topic. 

Alhoon gain no special undead attacks 
(such as a human lich's chill touch), but do 
have " standard" undead immunities to sleep 
and charm- related magics. They can't be 
turned or dispelled by priests or harmed or 
impeded by holy water, cold iron, protec 
tion from evil, sunlight, or silver weapons- 
but are subject to spells affecting undead. 

An illithilich retains the psionic powers it 
had in life: the equivalent of a 7th-level 
psionicist, with 3 disciplines, 5 sciences, and 
14 devotions. Alhoon attack with a mind 
thrust, having a Power Score of 18, and 
IdlOO + 250 psionic strength points. Like all 
mind flayers, illithiliches always have the 
abilities of astral projection, body equilib 
rium (their only psychometabolic power), 
control body domination, ESP, levitation, 
post-hypnotic suggestion, probability travel, 
and teleport, and also possess other abilities 
varying from entity to entity (see PHBR5, 
The Complete Psionics Handbook ). 

Alhoon can also cast spells, employing one 
(plus its tentacle attacks) in any round in 
which it does not use psionics. Illithiliches 
can cast spells as 9th-level mages (spells: 4, 
3, 3, 2, 1). Typically, they use a wide variety 
of spells seized from human mages, 
spellbooks found in tombs, and the like- 
and always avidly seek more, driven by 
their hunger for power. Alhoon spellcasting 
requires material components, but illithi 
liches often modify spells to remove the ver 
bal component (altering the somatic 
component to make up for this). Illithiliches 
can employ all magical items usable by wiz 
ards, as well as those open to all classes. 
Magical items, spell scrolls, and spellbooks 
are the treasures most valued by Alhoon. A 
selection of rare spells discovered, devel 
oped, or seized and modified by the Alhoon 
of Myth Drannor appears in this book. 


Alhoon spurn illithid societies ruled by 
elder-brains. In the surface world, they usu 
ally live alone, often slaying a human wizard 
and taking over his remote tower (a process 
that has begun in the Dalelands). They do 
not hesitate to take living mind flayers as 
thought-controlled slaves (as well as all oth 
er suitable creatures). Alhoon are capable of 
diplomacy and of loyalty to allies when they 
see an ultimate benefit, but inwardly con 
sider all other beings cattle, and promises to 
them merely empty conveniences. Alhoon 
regard true liches and beholders as their 
greatest rivals, destroying them whenever 
possible. 

In combat, Alhoon attack with four AC7 
tentacles as living mind flayers do. Once a 
tentacle hits, it automatically does ld4 
points of damage per round, as it bores into 
the victim's body. Attacks doing a tentacle 5 
points or more of damage in a single round 
cause it to recoil, withdrawing from the vic 
tim's body. It then strikes at a new spot on 
the victim; an attack roll is required, and 
boring time to the victim's brain begins 
again, at ld4 rounds. Tfentacles striking a 
victim elsewhere than its head do damage 
for 4 rounds and then withdraw; they can 
not reach the brain. 

Alhoon: INT 18; AL NE; AC 5; MV 12; HD 
8+4; THACO 11; If AT 6; Dmg ld4 (tentacle 
boring) x 4 (death when brain reached, in 
ld4 rounds), by weapon, and by spell or psi 
onics; SA mind thrust, other psionics, and 
spell use; SD partial immunity to poisons, 
undead spell immunities; MR 90%; SZ M (6' 
tall); ML 17-18; XP 9,000; detailed fully in the 
Menzoberranzan boxed set. Possible trea 
sure types: S, T, V X 3 (x 6 in lair), and X. 
Usually accompanied by 2d4 servant mon 
sters, who will fight to the death for it. Mon 
ster species of DM's choice, or roll ld6: 

01: 1-3 ettins or 3-18 ores 

02: 2-5 winged serpents and/or flying snakes 
















03: 2-5 former adventurers: humans or half- 
ores, no spellcasters or magic, but other 
wise fully equipped 
04: 2-5 gargoyles 

05: 1-2 nagas, plus roll again on this table, 
cutting numerical strength of second mon 
ster type in half, rounding fractions up 
06: 2-8 hobgoblins or 3-18 bugbears 

When encountered, a typical Alhoon is 
armed with ld4 magical items. The first of 
these is 70% likely to be a wand, and a sec 
ond is 70% likely to be a ring. The remaining 
items are 80% likely to be spell scrolls. The 
remainder of the Alhoon's magic, including 
its main spellbook, is hidden in the ruins. An 
Alhoon has a minor cache (which it may try 
to use to ransom its life, if defeated in bat 
tle), and a major cache. 























This chapter details a few rare spells used 
by the Alhoon. The illithiliches also use 
more widely known wizard spells; the DM 
should choose from those in the Players 
Handbook, Tbme of Magic, and any available 
Realms sources, such as FORGOTTEN 
REALMS (r) Adventures. 

Certain Alhoon have modified these spells 
so as to cast them without a verbal compo 
nent. 

Wizard Spells 

FiRst Leoe) Spells 

Deflection (Abjuration) 

Range: 0 

Components; V,S,M 
Duration: 1 round 
Casting Time: 1 
Area of Effect: The caster 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell protects the caster for the rest of 
the round in which it is cast or on the fol 
lowing round (whichever is chosen during 
casting). During the round the spell lasts, it 
lessens the effects of any weapon attacks on 
the caster. Such attacks are prevented from 
stunning the caster or severing any part of 
the caster's body, and the damage dice such 
attacks do to the caster are modified by -1 
hp per die, to a minimum of 1 hp per attack 
(the spell can't prevent damage altogether). 
The spell prevails even in "maximum dam 
age" situations, But has no effect against ac 
id, poison, or purely magical attacks. 
(Magical weapon attacks are lessened, as are 
missile attacks.) 

If the spell effect is delayed until the 
round after casting, it does not harm the 
caster or impair him from casting another 
spell during that round (nor does such cast 
ing end or harm the deflection). The materi 
al component of this spell is a piece of nail 


from the hand or claw of any creature, or a 
hard piece of chitin or other exoskeleton. 
Note that despite its name, this spell does 
not affect the chances of the caster being 
hit-only the damage suffered. No saving 
throw benefits are conferred by the spell. 

The effects of this spell may be combined 
with a shield spell or other protective mag 
ics, but there is no known way for the caster 
to aid another being by means of a deflec 
tion-, it affects only the caster. 

Detect Life (Greater Divination) 

Range: 0 
Components: V,S 
Duration: 3 rounds 
Casting Time: 1 

Area of Effect: 60'-radius sphere, centered 
on caster 

Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows the caster to detect the 
presence of intelligent life within the spell 
area. The caster can tell if the life is aware 
(i.e. whether or not it's awake, sane, and 
free of intoxication or sensory-debilitating 
magic or illness), but not precisely where or 
what the life is, or how many entities are 
present (if both alert awareness and slum 
ber are detected, the caster can safely infer 
that at least two creatures are present, but 
that's all). The spell does not allow direct 
mental contact, and will not detect magi 
cally or psionically-shielded creatures or the 
wills of "not present" scryers such as wiz 
ards using wizard eyes or crystal balls (be 
ings hiding in an extra-dimensional space 
are considered "not present"). It can detect 
life that is invisible, concealed, disguised 
(even trapped within solid objects or magi 
cal forms), or astral or ethereal, but does not 
reveal this state of the life. The spell gives no 
hint of the nature, thoughts, or inclination 
(e.g. hostile or friendly) of the life detected. 


T 




/ 

J 

64 


L-v-k-Lx. 













The spell ignores the caster's own life en 
ergy; but detects beings in range that the 
caster knows are present (such as compan 
ions); so their presence may give a false 
warning of nearby life. 

The caster can cast the spell to scan a 
smaller spherical area of effect (the sphere 
may have a radius of 10'; 20'; 30'; 40'; or 50' 
instead of the maximum); but this size must 
be chosen during casting; and can't be al 
tered thereafter-nor can the area of effect 
be changed in shape or location from a 
sphere centered on the caster. Solid or magi 
cal barriers do not affect the spell's detec 
tion. Undead can't be detected by means of 
this spell. 

Second Leo el Spells 

Delayed Light (Alteration) 

Range: 60 yards 
Components: V,M 
Duration: Special 
Casting Time: 2 

Area of Effect: 20-foot-radius globe 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell creates a luminous glow; equal to 
torchlight. This radiance appears only when 
specific conditions are met; in the same way 
as a magic mouth spell is set to be triggered; 
even if this occurs years after casting. When 
the light does appear, it lasts for 1 turn, oc 
cupying an unmoving area (it can't be cast 
on, or blind, a being). 

The area in which the light will appear 
must be in range and clearly visible to the 
caster as the spell is cast. When the light ap 
pears, it permanently negates any magical 
darkness in the area of effect (unlike the 
first-level light spell). It can instantly be end 
ed by the caster (if present, within range) at 
any time, by silent act of will. 

This spell is often used as a silent alarm, 


alerting the caster or trained guardian crea 
tures to the arrival of an intruder. The mate 
rial components of this spell are a spark and 
anything phosphorescent (usually fungus is 
used). 

Fang Fist (Alteration, Necromancy) 

Range: 0 
Components: V,S 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Casting Time: 2 

Area of Effect: One of the caster's arms 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell temporarily transforms one of the 
caster's arms, from elbow to fingertips, into a 
snake-like, flexible body ending in a fanged, 
biting mouth. It is retractable, from a mini 
mum of 1' in length to a maximum of 14', and 
can lash out to full extent with lightning 
speed, to surprise foes who think they're out 
of reach. 

This "snake-arm" strikes with a bonus of 
+ 1 on all attack rolls, and bites for ld8 +4 
points of damage. It can't be combined with 
poison effects, and the caster can use only 
verbal-component spells while it's in exist 
ence. The arm is AC4, and will turn back to 
the caster's real arm if dealt more than 12 
hit points of damage in a single round (the 
caster takes all damage suffered by the arm 
in the normal way). The caster can also re 
turn the arm to normal in 1 segment, at will. 
When the snake-arm returns to normal 
form, the spell is ended. 

The snake-arm's jaws can grip and hold 
items such as wands and ropes, and by curl 
ing its lips over the teeth, grasp quite firmly 
without sinking teeth into fragile objects. 
The snake-arm has the same strength as the 
caster's real arm. 











Mind Mantle (Abjuration) 

Range: 0 
Components: V,S 
Duration: 1 turn/level 
Casting Time: 2 

Area of Effect: Caster or one touched crea 
ture 

Saving Throw: None 

This spell creates a cloaking web of random 
mental impulses that screens the mind of a 
single protected being against all mind- 
reading and influencing spells of 5th level or 
less (both wizardly enchantment/charm- 
school magics and all priests' spells of the 
charm sphere). The being is also immune to 
the effects of magical items that duplicate 
the aforementioned spells, and to all psionic 
telepathic devotions. 

Psionic telepathic sciences (such as the 
five commonly-known psionic attack forms) 
can affect a being protected by a mind man 
tle , but their contact cost is increased by 
half (e.g. from "1" to "1.5"), rounding up 
wards. Also, if the protected being is psioni- 
cally gifted, and uses ejection to force away 
a psionic attacker, no side effects are suf 
fered. 

A mind mantle is invisible, and is unaffect 
ed by subsequent spellcasting on the part of 
a protected being. The caster can end it in 
stantly by silent act of will, and a dispel mag 
ic will also destroy it. 

Poisonstar (Evocation, Alteration) 

Range: 90 yards 
Components: V,S,M 
Duration: Special 
Casting Time: 2 

Area of Effect: 1 target per star 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell creates nine stars around one of 
the caster's hands. These magical motes ap 


pear as purple winking sparks with writh 
ing darkness at their centers. At the end of 
the round of casting, the caster can by will 
cause these to fly at and attack up to nine 
visible creatures (dividing up the attacking 
flight of stars between target creatures as 
desired). The stars pursue targets to the lim 
its of spell range, at MV Fl 29 (A), striking at 
THACO 9, with no range penalties. 

Poisonstars have no effect on inorganic 
substance at all, but harm living and undead 
creatures, as follows: when one strikes, it 
does 1 point of corrosive damage to living 
beings, or 2 points to an undead creature. 

Living victims must also save vs. poison at 
-2, or be wracked by waves of nausea, 
pain, and weakness for ld4 rounds. This 
magical venom does no additional hp dam 
age, but during this time, the victim makes 
all ability checks at -2, launches attacks at 
-2, and has a 2-point armor class penalty. 

The material components of this spell are 
a drop of poison, a drop of the caster's spit 
tle, and a spark or small flame (which goes 
out during casting). 

TbiRd Leoel SpelJ 

Improved Mind Mantle (Abjuration) 

Range : 0 
Components: V,S 
Duration: 1 turn/level 
Casting Time: 3 

Area of Effect: Caster or one touched crea 
ture 

Saving Throw: None 

This spell creates a cloaking web of random 
mental impulses that screens the mind of a 
single protected being against all mind- 
reading and influencing spells of 5th level or 
less (both wizardly enchantment/charm- 
school magics and all priests' spells of the 
charm sphere). The being is also immune to 














magical item effects that duplicate the afore 
mentioned spells, and to all psionic telepath 
ic devotions. 

Psionic telepathic sciences (such as the 
five commonly-known psionic attack forms) 
can affect a being protected by an improved 
mind mantle, but their contact cost is dou 
bled. Also, if the protected being is psionical- 
ly gifted, and uses ejection to force away a 
psionic attacker, no side effects are suf 
fered. 

The mantle-wearer is also protected 
against all telepathic attack modes (ego 
whip, id insinuation, mind thrust , psionic 
blast , and psychic crush) as follows: no 
" power score" effects are possible against 
the man tie- wearer, and the initial costs of 
these attacks are doubled when used 
against the man tie- wearer. In other words, 
unless the psionic attacker knows of the 
protection and doubles the Psionic Strength 
Points used in the attack, the initial attack 
automatically fails, but still costs half the 
normal cost of the power, rounded up, as ex 
plained on page 11 of the PHBR5, The Com 
plete Psionics Handbook. 

An improved mind mantle is invisible, and 
is unaffected by subsequent spellcasting on 
the part of a protected being (which also 
won't affect it). The caster can end it instant 
ly by silent act of will, and a dispel magic will 
also destroy it. 

FociRtte Leoel Spells 

Dancing Weapon (Alteration) 

Range: 60 yards 
Components: V,S,M 
Duration: 7 rounds 
Casting Time: 4 
Area of Effect: One weapon 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell enables the caster to animate a 


single weapon to fly about (at MV FI 26(A)) 
and attack a single target being by itself. The 
foe must be visible to the caster during cast 
ing. Thereafter, the caster can cast other 
spells or turn his attention to other tasks. 

The weapon always hits. Each round, the 
victim and the weapon roll d20. If the weap 
on roll is higher, the weapon does its maxi 
mum damage; if the rolls are equal, roll for 
damage in the normal way; if the victim's 
roll is higher, roll again: an even result 
means the weapon does 2 points of damage, 
and an odd result means it does 1 hp of dam 
age. 

During the spell, the weapon is AC -1, 
and has 44 hp. It has no sentience, and can't 
be affected by mind-controlling spells. It can 
never strike at the caster or at the wrong 
target: it only attacks the target chosen dur 
ing casting, and can't switch targets (if the 
target flees out of range, dies, or otherwise 
escapes, the spell ends). The caster can end 
the spell in an instant, by silent act of will. It 
also ends if the weapon is destroyed by spell 
or by hit point loss. 

This spell won't work on magical weapons 
(weapons bearing a permanent dweomer). 
It will work on weapons that have had an 
other temporary spell cast on them to in 
crease their damage (such as heat metal), 
but always consumes the weapon when the 
spell ends or is stopped. 

The material components of this spell are 
the wing of an insect or the feather of a 
bird, and a weapon (not consumed by the 
spell except as noted above). 

If a tool or handy item is used instead of a 
fashioned weapon, handheld items do ld4 
points of damage, shovels and other tools 
with shafts do ld6 points of damage, and 
anything larger than the volume of a large 
man can't be moved by the spell (too large 
an intended weapon will cause the spell to 
be wasted). The largest items animated by 
this spell include such things as barrels, 



la 














Alhooio Spells 







high stepstools, suits of armor strapped to a 
rack, small boat anchors, two-wheeled 
pushcarts, and the like-and these typically 
do 2d4 points of damage, and never more 
than 2d6. 

Fipth Leaei Spell 

Darkbolt (Evocation) 

Range: 30 yards 

Components: V,S,M 

Duration: 1 round + 1 round/level 

Casting Time: 5 

Area of Effect: Special 

Saving Throw: Special 

This spell causes a black, rubbery tentacle 
to spring from each of the caster's hands. 
These eel-like things leap through the air at 
any one or two targets of the caster's choice, 
striking with the caster's THACO, but with a 
+ 3 attack roll bonus and no range penal 
ties. 

If a tentacle misses, it wriggles back to the 
caster during the next round, and then can 


be hurled again for another attack (by act of 
will; the caster can cast other spells or take 
other actions during this later round). 

If a tentacle hits, the victim takes hp dam 
age equal to ld4 plus 1 hp per level of the 
caster, and must save vs. spells. If the save 
succeeds, the tentacle does ld4 points of 
damage to the victim on the next round, as it 
fades away forever. 

If the save fails, the victim takes double 
damage and is constricted by the tentacle, 
which deals him 2d4 points of damage per 
round thereafter until the spell expires or 
the victim gets free (whereupon the tentacle 
fades away). Each round, apply tentacle 
damage, and then roll a d20 for the tentacle 
and the victim; if the victim's result is higher, 
he has torn free. 

Note that once a tentacle hits, it can never 
change to another target. The material com 
ponent of this spell is the whole or partial 
body of a dead worm or snake, or a piece of 
octopus or squid tentacle, or part of a rop 
er's strand or a pseudopod from a mimic or 
other creature able to extrude appendages. 



& 













The infamous, deadly denizens of the Nine 
Hells, the dark fears of many a youngsters' 
nightmares in Faerun, the baatezu walk the 
streets of Myth Drannor, and flit bat-like 
over the ruins. They have brought swift 
death to many reckless explorers and rash 
adventurers who thought Myth Drannor's 
riches lay unguarded-and they imperil vis 
its to the ruined city still. 

Baatezu first appeared in ruined Myth 
Drannor at the behest of priests of Bane, 
sent by the High Imperceptor (who sought 
magic to increase his power, in his struggle 
to overthrow Manshoon and Fzoul of the 
Zhentarim, and regain control of Zhentil 
Keep's clergy of Bane). These priests en 
listed wizards to help them in their explora 
tions of the ruins, but some of these dark 
mages were secretly agents of the Zhen 
tarim, and manipulated the priests into 
agreeing to the summoning of baatezu, to 
fight against the fearsome monsters of Myth 
Drannor (which then included the 
Phaerimm in the dark depths, and several 
feuding but not yet full-grown dragons on 
the surface). The wizards intended to con 
fine the baatezu to the city, but otherwise let 
them roam freely, devouring the priests if 
they wished. This occurred, and the wiz 
ards hastily withdrew. 

In this plan, the mages were unwittingly 
but undoubtedly influenced by the Alhoon, 
who wanted to bring a powerful foe into the 
ruins to fight the Phaerimm-a foe that all 
other intruders (such as the increasingly nu 
merous human adventuring bands) would 
flee from, or attack on sight. The Alhoon 
concealed themselves with magic and psi- 
onics, and searched for Myth Drannor's 
magic while the baatezu and the Phaerimm 
battled each other through the streets. 

The major Myth Drannan gate created by 
the servants of Bane linking Faerun with the 
Nine Hells was located in the Burial Glen, at 
the west end of the city. There the most evil 


and bold "faithful" of Bane turned to foul rit 
uals involving forbidden sacrifice that were 
thankfully short-lived. 

The adventuring group based in Shadow- 
dale, led by the ranger Florin Falconhand, 
took the name The Knights of Myth Dran 
nor, and dedicated themselves to protecting 
the ruined city from falling into evil hands. 
They came in their battle-might to the Burial 
Glen, and destroyed the gate in a battle that 
saw the destruction of at least four pit 
fiends, a dozen or so gelugons, many "out 
cast" baatezu from Avernus, and evil dragon 
consorts of Tiamat, ruler of that plane of the 
Hells. 

Although the Alhoon may coerce or ma 
nipulate other evil hands to open another 
gate to the Hells at any time, for the present 
the power of the baatezu in Myth Drannor 
is much reduced; only about seventy still re 
main in the city, twenty or fewer of them be 
ing greater baatezu. 

These surviving baatezu are known to in 
clude the pit fiends Aglaeroch and Nu- 
leerdra; the gelugons Belubaer, Dlithgorkh, 
and Oluubarga; and the cornugons Dlan- 
chass, Faerlfeyd, Glaungter , Ilitharghe , 
Oumisser, and Xarklara. 

They lead a mixed band of lesser baatezu, 
mostly erinyes and barbazu. These delight 
in tormenting all who fall into their clutches 
(and interrogating intelligent victims-even 
sending word by human worshippers for 
ransoms for the important, to draw future 
meals to the ruins), before devouring them. 

The baatezu patrol the ruins often, in cru 
el, battle-hungry bands of 3d4 in number. 
Solitary baatezu may also be encountered 
foraging. The greater baatezu have taken 
up residence in some of the grander intact 
buildings in the older, western part of the 
city, and will be found there surrounded by 
lesser baatezu guards and servants, often 
feasting on forest deer or captured adven 
turers. 



> 

i 69 







The DM should choose the composition of 
such large, important baatezu encounters. 
For patrols and individuals met by chance, 
use the following table (roll ld!2): 


Die 

Result (dice in brackets 

Roll 

determine numbers appearing) 

01 

Hamatula (3d4) 

02 

Abishai (2d4; percentile roll for spe 
cies: 01-80 black; 81-91% green; 92-00 
red) 

03 

Spinagon (ld3) 

04 

Erinyes (ld2) 

05 

Spinagon (ld3) 

06 

Barbazu (3d4) 

07 

Spinagon ildS) 

08 

Erinyes (ld4) 

09 

Hamatula (ld2) 

10 

Osyluth (ld4) 

11 

Barbazu (4d4) 

12 

DM's choice: osyluth (2d4) or erinyes 
(2d4) or cornugon (ld2) 


Baatezu are fully detailed in Volume 8 of the 
Monstrous Compendium . DMs choosing not 
to use baatezu in play should replace them 
with other lower planar creatures, or with 
strong groups of gargoyles. 

The baatezu in Myth Drannor are pres 
ently constrained by two important spells 
that the Zhentarim wizards worked to tem 
porarily modify the mythal. Their work is 
unravelling day by day, as the magic ages 
and fails-but for the present, the baatezu 
are still unable to do the following: 

• leave the city (that is, move outside of 
an area that extends roughly 70 yards into 
the forest on all sides of the ruins; the Burial 
Glen and the Meadows both are considered 
part of the ruins for these purposes, but 
Lovers' Glade not part of it, and thus beyond 
their range); and 

• gate in other creatures from the Nine 
Hells. 

These restrictions are all that has kept 


Myth Drannor from becoming a stronghold 
of the baatezu, and the natives of the Nine 
Hells from overrunning the Dalelands, Sem- 
bia, and the Moonsea by storm. 

Should this magic ever fail, a dark fate 
would swiftly befall humankind in the 
region-a possibility that has not gone unno 
ticed by the war wizards of Cormyr (who 
have prepared plans for a swift mobilization 
of all the magic of their realm, to defend 
against the dark and evil tide) or by wizards 
such as Elminster. The Old Mage of Shadow- 
dale is known to have worked magic upon 
the mythal to prolong the prohibitions of 
the Zhentarim, and perhaps will succeed in 
making them permanent or in altering them 
to drive out or destroy the baatezu entirely. 

The future aims of the baatezu are as sim 
ple and brutal as Elminster and the war wiz 
ards anticipate: wielding the magic they find 
in Myth Drannor, they intend to expand 
from this base to dominate the wooded Da 
lelands, treating the land as their own hunt 
ing preserve. 


SEE 


70 













The greatest Myth Drannan treasure in 
terms of sheer amount are the coins that lie 
in its rubble, but the riches the city holds 
more of than any other settlement in the 
Realms (and, just possibly, anywhere) are 
spellbooks; hundreds of wizards' 
spellbooks, that lie hidden in the shattered 
chambers and buried cellars of the city. Tb 
wizards, these are far more valuable than 
coins, but the most powerful books-and 
the city's most potent magical items-lie in 
deep vaults guarded by the baelnorn. 

Few sages even know of the existence of 
the baelnorn (a new monster included in 
this boxed set). They are rare indeed outside 
Myth Drannor, for few elves today think the 
sacrifice they made a sane one. Tb rise in 
mastery of magic beyond what living elves 
can, they embraced undeath to become the 
backbones of their families, the seldom-seen 
sources of magic, wise counsel, and guardi 
anship. When a family left its house, the 
baelnorn stood watchguard against thieves 
or fire. When young elves had to make dan 
gerous journeys, the baelnorn (cloaked and 
hooded to conceal its identity) was their pro 
tector and guide. The baelnorn kept the 
family lore, and tutored younglings in mag 
ic. Most also maintained the family crypt, in 
terring the fallen in deep grottoes. 

When Myth Drannor was attacked, the 
baelnorn emerged to fight. Were it not for 
them, few would have gotten out of the city 
alive. Their unexpected magic proved terri 
ble and their hunger for battle keen (after so 
long away from adventure), but most 
baelnorn were destroyed that day under 
the rending claws of yugoloths. When it was 
clear the city was lost, a few retreated be 
low, to their subterranean spell-chambers 
and family crypts. There they gathered the 
most potent family magic, and walled them 
selves in, to study magic and await the re 
turn of their kin. 

Over twenty that Elminster knows of (hav 


ing contacted them magically) are still wait 
ing. They are wise and good, despite their 
pride and their undead nature. Few will sur 
render their family magic to anyone not of 
their kin -unless they are certain their lin 
eage has not survived (whereupon they of 
fer magic to elves who reach them). 

They have come to hate the Phaerimm 
and Alhoon since the fall of the city (as these 
dangerous beings have come prying at their 
caverns, seeking to plunder the magic 
guarded by the baelnorn). A baelnorn who 
detects battle near its lair emerges to aid 
anyone beset by Phaerimm, Alhoon, behold 
ers, or baatezu. It may allow those it aids to 
study spells from books it will not surren 
der, and trade information about the city 
(even to folk obviously interested in plun 
dering it) for news of the world outside 
Myth Drannor. 

More than one adventuring band has ac 
quired their own eerie ally and advisor in 
this way-powerful entities to whom they 
can flee, give valuables to be guarded to, 
learn magic from, or ask advice of. Reaching 
even a friendly baelnorn is an adventure in 
itself-because they absolutely refuse to 
leave their lairs for long. (Only one baelnorn 
is known to have done so: Elhieardacil, 
whose descendants came from Evermeet to 
get him-and it took them the better part of 
a tenday to convince him to reluctantly 
leave the ruins. Even now, safely across the 
sea in the Forest Realm, he often speaks 
wistfully of seeing Myth Drannor rebuilt 
again.) 



a 













The greatest danger to PC adventurers ex 
ploring Myth Drannor may not prove to be 
any of the exotic monsters and magical dan 
gers that lurk in the ruins, but other adven 
turers, bent on enriching themselves. Some 
are outright raiders, who attack all other 
humans on sight. Others may appear friend 
ly but deal treachery at the first good oppor 
tunity, and the vast majority try to escape 
notice until they can mount an effective am 
bush. Even honest, peaceful adventuring 
bands charge a high price (typically a magi 
cal item or new spell) for battlefield aid or 
healing to strangers from a rival group of 
adventurers. The DM is encouraged to cre 
ate NPC adventuring groups suited in levels 
to best challenge the PCs (the chapter in this 
sourcebook on "The Seizing" gives an ample 
list of possible adventuring groups, as does 
FR15, Gold & Glory, a guide to the current 
mercenary groups in the Realms). This 
chapter presents two groups for quick DM 
reference: The Company of the Catlash 
(fully detailed) and The Masked Marauders 
(presented in more skeletal outline). 

Tbe Company op 
the Catlash 

Named for the magical item borne by their 
leader, Catlindra Serpentar, this all-female 
adventuring band has a reputation as fero 
cious fighters in the Vilhon Reach, where 
there was much call for their services in the 
endless disputes between rival barons and 
minor lordlings. 

After several nasty battles against wizard- 
aided troops, they have come to Myth Dran 
nor seeking magical items to strengthen 
their own battle-capabilities (without having 
to wrest magic from a dangerous foe, or 
steal it from anyone; the ruined city is the 
only place they could think of where magic 
might be lying about for the taking). 


The Company of the Catlash tends to greet 
strangers in wary silence, awaiting their re 
action. They are weary of fighting everyone 
they meet, and are glad to make friends or 
simply to aid or work with folk they don't 
have to fight. They have chosen a wander 
ing, adventuring life because they like it. 
They are not lovelorn girls eager to throw 
themselves into the arms of any handsome 
prince they meet. 

This company resorts to very few "tricks" 
and prepared tools or trap-items, but they 
are alert battlefield strategists, fighters 
guarding the mages, and are very agile and 
mobile, leaping and running about so as to 
overwhelm a foe with several blades at one 
point, and then swiftly get clear so that a 
wizard can blast the area with a spell. 

CatlfndRa SeRp entan 

Female human, AL NG; AC 0 (field plate plus 
dex bonus); MV 12; F9; hp 76; THACO 12; 
#AT 1; Dmg by weapon type (strength bonus 
of +1 on attack and damage rolls, weapons 
carried: long sword ld8, 3 daggers ld4, 
short sword ld6); S 17, D 16, C 15, I 14, W 
16, Ch 16, ML 19. Age 29, height 6', weight 
109 lbs., long brown hair, green eyes, slim, 
graceful figure, white sword-scar on left 
cheek, is a skilled forager and direction 
finder in woodlands, and a good teacher of 
armsmanship. 

Catlindra wears a ring of spell turning and 
wields the catlash (a very rare, though not 
unique, magical item from Mulhorand). It is 
a seven-stranded whip whose tentacles ex 
tend out a dozen feet as it is striking, and 
then retract to two feet in length. It strikes 
at + 2 to hit, and does 2d4 damage to victims 
(3d4 to evil-aligned creatures, and 4d4 to un 
dead, astral, or ethereal beings). Its own sav 
ing throws against magic are made at +2, 
and if its save succeeds, the magic con 
cerned (even if directed at its wielder, an- 


32E 


72 


a 












Adoentcmiiog Bands 




other being, or an area) is twisted into a wild 
magic effect. In the mythal, this effect is 
augmented: any magic used within 30' of 
the catlash is 25% likely to go awry (the 
Company has discovered this property). 

Catlindra carries a potion of extra-healing 
(each heals 3d8+3 hp, or yields three ld8 
doses) down each boot, and at her belt a po 
tion of healing (2d4+2) and an elixir of 
health . Her boots also carry a dagger each, 
with the third dagger sheathed along her 
left forearm. The two swords ride at her 
hips, on their own overbelt. She carries four 
platinum pieces and three 1000-gp-value 
black opals in a small cloth bag at her throat 
(under her gorget), has two gold pieces slid 
into slits in her boot-tops and another four 
similarly carried in her belt, and at her belt 
carries a purse containing 11 cp, 4 sp, 12 gp, 
and 6 pp. 

Catlindra was born in Impiltur to mer 
chant parents, and spent her youth on heav 
ing ships on the Inner Sea and dusty roads 
around it, seeing the Realms as her parents 
built a fortune dealing shrewdly in what 
ever folk needed most. Always teased or tor 
mented by local children wherever they 
stopped, Catlindra developed a fierce tem 
per and much skill at scrapping. By the time 
her parents retired to a luxurious walled 
mansion in Selgaunt, Catlindra had devel 
oped into an unruly beauty who had already 
killed would-be thieves and others who at 
tacked her on the road. 

When her mother was slain by a dopple- 
ganger, Catlindra was the one who discov 
ered the deception-and slew her false 
mother bloodily before her father's eyes. 
The shock robbed him of his sanity, and 
drove Catlindra to find something to do be 
sides care for a catatonic father. She used 
her money to found an adventuring compa 
ny, gathering disaffected women from the 
young, bored daughters of the Sembian 
rich, and the Company was born. Their first 



stiff test was a fight with a wizard south of 
Haptooth, who sent undead against them. 
From them they gained more riches, 
spellbooks-and the catlash. Since then, the 
Company has known seven winters of hard 
venturing, and made a name for themselves 
in the Vilhon. 

Aims: Catlindra prides herself on her able, 
foreseeing leadership, and tries to keep her 
band strong and content, going from victory 
to victory. She sees a future of helping make 
the Dales a safer place, and perhaps some 
day ruling a wilderness stronghold of her 
own-either founding and building it, or 
cleansing a Dale or rural village fallen on 
hard times or under evil rule. She dreams of 
walking with great and powerful rulers, and 
calling them friends-and is fascinated by 
the Harpers, whom she'd like to become one 
of, if she could only discover how. 

Catlindra is wary of but polite to stran- 


















gers, using the manners of the few non- 
proud and haughty Sembian nobles she's 
met. She is always alert for treachery or 
danger, always thinking several steps 
ahead-and is a very good judge of charac 
ter, seeming to feel when something is 
wrong or deceitful. 

ShaliiRa Daon 

Female half-elf, AL CG; AC 6 (dex bonus; 
wears no armor, but a tabard painted to 
look like scale armor from a distance); MV 
12; F6/W6; hp 32; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg by 
spell or weapon type; S 17, D 18, C 13,118, 
W 12, Ch 14, ML 18. Age 29, height 5'4", 
weight 89 lbs., long blonde hair, liquid blue- 
green eyes, slim, almost boyish figure, 
graceful, smooth, and quiet in her 
movements-a born dancer who has made 
many coins dancing in both the proudest 
and coarsest Sembian venues. Also very tal 
ented with cosmetics and painting, with a 
perfect natural memory for specific colors 
(i.e. can match one garment perfectly with 
another that is now long ago and far away). 

Shaliira's spells are 4,2,2, and she typically 
carries charm person, color spray, magic 
missile x 2 (each spell generates 3 missiles)/ 
ESP, webl dispel magic, and fireball. She also 
carries four bone scroll tubes in her boots. 
Each holds one scroll of one spell, and these 
are: identify, flaming sphere, dispel magic, 
and lightning bolt. In battle, Shaliira wears 
her traveling spellbook (which has covers of 
flexible beaten copper) strapped across her 
belly in its own leather satchel (under her 
clothing). It contains 12 first-level spells, 8 
second-level spells, and 6 third-level spells, 
and bears a special dweomer cast on it (at 
great expense) by Shalgondier of the Excel 
lent Spells, a Calishite mage of great skill and 
pomposity. This magic acts as a ring of spell 
turning, twice (whenever magic is cast at, or 
so as to include, the book), and is the n ex 


hausted. (Shalgondier, who travels up and 
down the Sword Coast, has made a fortune 
charging mages 10,000 gp and up for him to 
apply this spell to their spellbook.) 

Shaliira also has a dagger +1, which 
glows with a silvery-blue faerie fire radi 
ance when grasped and ordered to do so, 
which she wears sheathed at her belt. Her 
other weapons include two normal (ld4) 
daggers (each boot contains one: its blade 
lies between the double-thicknesses of the 
boot soles, and the heel of each boot be 
comes a dagger-hilt when they are un 
clasped), and three slim throwing darts 
(ld3), worn at her belt. Her belt also carries 
her purse (6 cp, 8 sp, 19 gp, and 2 pp). In her 
backpack, in the midst of a ball of filthy, 
bloodstained underthings and travel 
clothes, is a cloth bag holding 6 large, fine 
carnelians (each worth 90 gp), 4 sapphires 
(worth 1,000; 1,200; 1,400; and 3,600 gp), 
and a diamond worth 7,100 gp. 

Born in Deepingdale to an elven mother, 
Shaliira grew up traveling around Sembia, 
as her mother searched for the traveling hu 
man merchant who was Shaliira's father. 
She finally found him a night too late-in a 
tavern in Ordulin, dying from the poisoned 
blade of a Cult of the Dragon agent. Sha 
liira's grieving mother soon died, and Sha 
liira was left to dance and wait tables in 
Sembian taverns to earn a living. Her experi 
ences have left her with a hatred for drunks 
and tavern rowdies, accomplished skills as a 
dancer, and a driving desire to make some 
thing of herself and to master enough magic 
to someday speak with her dead father (the 
speak with dead spell she seeks, detailed in 
the Realms module FRQ1, is a fourth-level 
wizard spell-and so almost within her 
grasp). She hopes to get to know this dead 
man through talking with him (improving 
on that spell, if necessary, until she can call 
up his ghostly image and talk with him for 
an evening, not merely a few words). 
















Adoentarang Bands 







Aims: Shaliira dreams of becoming impor 
tant, well-known, and well regarded. She 
desperately needs to belong-to this Compa 
ny, to a community, or to other fellowships 
or groups, and won't rest until she has 
carved out or found for herself a place of 
worth and acceptance, somewhere. Her 
treatment in taverns has taught her to be 
wary of men who see only her grace and fey 
beauty, but she always hopes that each new 
face will become that of a friend, and is 
slower to sink blades into them than some of 
her companions in the Company. 

TaRaele Elfnost 

Female half-elf, AL CG; AC 7 (wears grey, 
flowing robes or rich gowns in current fash 
ions of nobility); MV 12; W10; hp 28; THACO 
17; #AT 1; Dmg by spell or weapon type; S 
12, D 17, C 11,118, W 17, Ch 14, ML 16. Age 
36, height 6', weight 99 lbs., long white hair, 
dark purple eyes, slim, bony figure, a singer 
of great natural (untrained) talent, and a 
skilled negotiator and diplomat, accom 
plished at being a "good listener" and put 
ting others at their ease, letting them 
confide in her. Briefly a lady of the evening 
(paid escort to dances and feasts) in Sel- 
gaunt, she has worked as an herbal healer 
and nurse to Sembian troops. 

Taruele's spells are 4,4,3,2,2. She usually 
carries magic missile (x 3) (each spell gener 
ates five missiles), spider climb!flaming 
sphere, invisibility ; Melf's acid arrow, web! 
fireball, lightning bolt ( *2)IEvard's black 
tentacles, ice storm!cone of cold, and hold 
monster 

T&ruele wears a ring of the ram and a ring 
of regeneration (normal type), and always 
carries (in a copper-sheathed box slung on a 
baldric across her back) ldl2 spell scrolls 
(one spell to a scroll) and her traveling 
spellbook (which contains only the spells 
listed above, the first-level spells identify 


and read magic, and the spells listed below, 
as scrolls). The first time encountered, she is 
carrying the scrolls dancing lights, continual 
light, darkness 15' radius, knock, locate ob 
ject, rope trick, charm monster, wizard eye, 
and teleport. 

She is armed with two beads of force (car 
ried in a pendant locket), two daggers (ld4; 
one has a silver-coated blade, and both are 
sheathed at her belt), and a sling (26 bullets 
carried, ld4 +1 damage each, sling and bul 
let pouch at belt). Her belt (held up by her 
over-the-shoulder baldric) also supports a 
satchel of material components and a purse 
of 12 cp, 9 gp, and 12 pp (6 gp and 4 sp also 
ride in a pocket high on the back of her bal 
dric, under her hair). 

Once a lady of Sembia's rich-merchant no 
bility, T&ruele was born out of wedlock to a 
Sembian merchant of importance in Yhaunn. 
When he died, her otherwise human family 
promptly drove her out. Narrowly escaping 
murder at the hands of her brothers, she fled 
to Highmoon, in Deepingdale, and there met 
an elven sorceress, Ilythyrra of Sevenskulls. 
T&ruele bought a place as Ilythyrra's appren 
tice and house-girl with the gems she wore, 
and settled down to a quiet life of studying 
magic (and occasionally using it to aid the 
patrols of the Elven Court). 

TWenty summers passed, and then came 
the day Ilythyrra was slain by adventurers 
seeking magic they could carry off. Tkruele, 
arriving as her mistress died, pursued the 
bravos and slew them one by one-until, 
her spells exhausted, she faced and fought 
the last one barehanded. Their fight was 
fierce but short: the warrior fell into a ra 
vine and T&ruele snatched up a rock and 
dashed out his brains. 

Grimly taking up Ilythyrra's magic and 
possessions, Taruele returned to life in 
Deepingdale only to be found, by chance, by 
her former family the Taprylorns. Her 














Adoentaraiog Bands 




brothers promptly attacked her, and in the 
battle that followed, T&ruele laid low many 
of her kin and their servants, but was cor 
nered, wounded, and facing certain death 
when the fledgling Company of the Catlash 
came to her rescue. Taking the surname of 
her mother, Thruele joined them and a life of 
adventure. 

Aims: T&ruele is eager to see the wonders 
of Myth Drannor (a sacred place to the elves 
she aided while mastering magic), and is 
thrilled to have friends and companions, 
and a rightful place among them. She goes 
where they go, and does what they do-and 
in meetings with strangers, is on her guard, 
but follows the cue of fellow Company 
members. 

KaJdciRa Othmeirz 

Female dwarf, AL CN; AC 4 (dex bonus, 


chainmail); MV 12; F8; hp 77; THACO 13; 
#AT 1; Dmg by weapon (throwing axe: ld6; 
morning star: 2d4; mace: ld6 + l; or war 
hammer: ld4 +1, strength bonus not added 
to these damages); S 17 ( + 1 to hit, +lon 
damage), D 15, C 17, I 13, W 12, Ch 12, ML 
20. Age 62, height 4'l", weight 104 lbs., 
curly blonde hair and beard, amber eyes, 
built like a barrel, with bulging biceps and 
thighs. A skilled gemcutter and appraiser 
and an adequate miner and stonecarver, 
Kaldura scorns the use of magic, feminine 
garb and ways, and the company of males. 
Her boots can sprout toe-dagger blades (ld4 
damage from a kick, +1 for her strength) if 
she unclips catches at their tops, and 
clipped inside the collar of her chainmail 
shirt is a snake-shaped mesh purse holding 
8 cp, 14 sp, and 7 gp. 

Kaldura also carries gems (in a cloth bag 
inside the codpiece she wears): 14 matched 
black opals (each worth 2,000 gp), 1 emerald 
(worth 6,000 gp), and four polished, 
cabochon-cut turquoises (worth 44 gp, 26 
gp, 16 gp, and 10 gp). 

Kaldura is bad-tempered and gruff, with a 
fierce joy of battle. The last of her family, 
she wandered the Realms in search of (her 
own) death or adventure (she cared little 
which), until she met the Company of the 
Catlash in a tavern brawl in Scardale (where 
they rescued her from a probable demise). 
Now among friends for the first time in her 
life, she will fight to the death for them, but 
is still struggling to set aside her rough, truc 
ulent manner. 

Aims: Kaldura cares nothing for Myth 
Drannor's magic, but wants to see the stone 
work of its ruins, still legendary among 
dwarves for the bold, thin and flowing- 
sculpted arches and rails-more like elven 
building than dwarven, but crafted by 
dwarven masters. She goes wherever her 
companions wish, and defiantly eyes each 
















stranger as a trickster or killer aiming to 
part her from her friends. 

CbaldaRa IroraeRstaR 

Female human, AL CG; AC 5 (chainmail); MV 
12; P7 of Tymora; hp 48; THACO 16; MT 1; 
Dmg by spell or weapon type; S 13, D 14, C 
15,116, W 18, Ch 14, ML 18. Age 32, height 
5'8", weight 97 lbs., short, early-greying 
black hair, amber eyes, lush, solid figure. A 
careful, methodical planner, Chaldara is an 
adequate artist and a superb cartographer 
and calligrapher. 

Chaldara's spells are 3,3,2,1, and she nor 
mally carries cure light wounds (x 3)1 find 
traps, flame blade (X 2 )/dispel magic, 
pyrotechnics! and cure serious wounds. 

She is armed with a morning star (2d4), a 
mace (ld6 +1), and a war hammer (ld4 +1). 
The latter two weapons hang at her belt, 
and the morning star is worn around her 
neck when not in battle, its ends clipped to 
carry-rings on the front of her chainmail 
shirt. 

At her belt, Chaldara carries a leather- 
wrapped scroll bearing three purify food &, 
drink spells, and two wax-sealed, cork- 
stoppered steel vials: potions of extra 
healing (each heals 3d8 + 3 hp, or yields 
three ld8 doses). Her belt also bears a purse 
holding 6 cp, 24 sp, and 36 gp. The inside lip 
of her helm's overhanging "tail" (rear) has 8 
platinum pieces tucked into it, stuck in place 
with tree-gum. 

A former temple scribe, her hunger for 
adventure overcame the satisfaction she 
gained organizing and running the business 
affairs of the temple of Tymora at Arabel. 

Dedicating her fortune to the glory of the 
Lady of Luck, Chaldara set out to find 
adventure-and aided several female war 
riors fighting off ores east of Mistledale. 
They invited her to join the Company they 
were forming, and she did-plunging into a 


happy career of adventuring. 

Aims: Chaldara wants to have many more 
splendid adventures-before, someday, set 
tling down with a devout male priest of Ty 
mora to found a large and successful temple 
in some hitherto dangerous, frontier land, 
somewhere in Faerun. 

jandeth \lmurza 

Female human, AL CG; AC 7 (studded leath 
er armor); MV 12; P6 of Tymora; hp 36; 
THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg by spell or weapon 
type; S 14, D 14, C 12,114, W 18, Ch 16, ML 
19. Age 29, height 5'11", weight 106 lbs., 
long brown hair, blue eyes, slim, graceful 
figure, an accomplished actress and seam 
stress. 

Jandeth's spells are 3,3,2, and she normal 
ly carries cure light wounds (X 3 )/flame 
blade (X 3 Vprotection from fire, and pyro 
technics. She is armed with a morning star 
(2d4), and a mace (ld6 + l), both carried 
slung at her belt. 

A soft-spoken, demure beauty from the 
backrooms of a bawdy theater in Ordulin, 
Jandeth has always dreamed of a life of bold 
adventure. At length she summoned the 
courage to pray to Tymora in an all-night 
vigil-and was promptly rewarded by wit 
nessing a robbery of the theater by night. 
Slipping out after the thieves with some ha 
zy idea of catching them, she watched them 
literally run into several priestesses of Ty 
mora. A fight ensued, and Jandeth clumsily 
aided the Tymorans. They rewarded her 
with a place in Tymora's service, once they 
learned her desires. 

For the next decade, she adventured in 
the Dales and Moonsea North, guarding 
temple-sponsored caravans and aiding the 
unfortunate and lone travelers beset by 
monsters or misfortune. 

On a rare caravan run into Sembia, she 


EE 


77 B 














met a happy, high-spirited band of lady ad 
venturers, the Company of the Catlash-and 
promptly heard a voice in her head, bidding 
her to join them. Inking this message as the 
will of Tymora, she did so, and has been a 
happy member of the Company ever since. 

Aims: Jandeth lives for the moment, exult 
ing in adventure and in seeing the marvels 
of Faerun. She hopes to someday achieve 
power enough to go on adventures that re 
ally influence life (for the better) in the 
Dales. She tends to give strangers the bene 
fit of any doubts, seeing good before evil. 

The Masked 
MaRaadeRs 

This ruthless, evil band of skulkers had to 
leave Thay rather rapidly, and came (by way 
of Impiltur and an ill-fated merchant ship 
voyage from Calaunt-intended for Saer- 
loon, but forcefully diverted by the Maraud 
ers to Scardale) to Myth Drannor, to see 
what could be gained from the ruins-or 
taken by force from the adventurers known 
to be traveling thence. 

The Marauders are four strong: two 
thieves (brother and sister), a fighter, and a 
wizard. Their statistics are summarized 
hereafter. 

GaaRJdarc Rooenhand 

Male human, AL LE; AC 0 (dex bonus, full 
plate armor); MV 12; F12; hp 116; THACO 9; 
#AT 1; Dmg by weapon type (halberd: ldlO, 
broadsword: 2d4, battle axe: ld8, or dagger: 
ld4 (two carried, in boot sheaths, both 
treated with venom-first strike forces save 
vs. poison or fall asleep for 2d4 rounds, on 
set time ld2 rounds; strength bonus of +1 
to hit and +1 on damage not added to weap 
on damages given here); S 17, D 15, C 18, I 


14, W 14, Ch 14, ML 16. Age 33, height 6'2", 
weight 196 lbs., short black hair, hazel eyes, 
heavily muscled, a skilled forester. A cruel, 
hard-drinking man who loves killing, good 
wine, and women, he'll do anything to be 
come rich and powerful, lord of a hold of his 
own. 

Gaurldar carries a heavily-wrapped stone 
on which a continual light spell has been 
cast (for night lantern use, and casting into 
the midst of enemies, in the dark), a coffer 
holding 33 cp, 45 sp, 67 gp, and 9 pp, and a 
belt purse of 3 cp, 4 sp, and 16 gp. 

Ilaetta Dnagonil 

Female human, AL CE; AC 7 (dex bonus; no 
armor worn); MV 12; W9; hp 22; THACO 18; 
#AT 1; Dmg by spell or weapon type; S 11, D 
17, C 9, I 18, W 17, Ch 17, ML 15. Age 27, 
height 5'6", weight 89 lbs., long, glossy 
black hair, emerald-green eyes, and a slim, 
graceful figure. She has a talent for creating 
new spells, and duplicating those she has 
seen cast, from fragmentary knowledge. 
She enjoys the company of men-and seeing 
them die bloodily. She is fascinated by magic 
and by monsters, and will travel far to see 
either. 

Ilueth wears a ring of shooting stars and a 
ring of fire resistance, and carries a wand of 
magic missiles (66 charges left), a set of iron 
bands of Bilarro, and a potion of extra 
healing (in a steel belt flask; it heals 3d8 4- 3 
hp, or yields three ld8 doses). 

Her spells are 4,3,3,2,1, and she usually 
carries change self, charm person\, magic 
missile (X 2) (5 missiles per spell)/blindness, 
flaming sphere, web/fireball ( x 2), lightning 
bolt!charm monster, polymorph other !and 
feeblemind . She also carries a scroll bearing 
three spells: detect invisibility, invisibilityi 
and wizard eye. Her traveling spellbook 
contains all the spells listed plus ld!2 first- 


















level spells and 2d4 spells for 2nd through 
5th level. 

IrJoiq StacilstaRR 

Male human ; AL NE; AC 4 (dex bonus ; leath 
er armor); MV 12; T7; hp 35; THACO 17; #AT 
1; Dmg by weapon type (shortsword: ld6; 3 
daggers (forearm and belt sheaths ; Irion is 
skilled at throwing these): ld4 each, darts (6 
at belt): ld3 each; S 14, D 18, C 16, I 16, W 
13, Ch 16, ML 15. Age 24, height 5'6", 
weight 101 lbs., short brown hair, black 
eyes, slim, graceful figure, and cocky, cruel 
manner. A skilled forger, calligrapher, and 
maker of inks and cosmetics; a born sales 
man. 

Irion wears an amulet of dramatic death 
that protects against death by magical fire 
(detailed in PHBR2, The Complete Thief's 
Handbook; DMs lacking this source should 
replace it with an amulet of proof against 
detection and location ), and carries (in a 
boot sheath) a potion of extra-healing (in a 
steel belt flask; it heals 3d8 + 3 hp, or yields 
three ld8 doses). Irion carries only 6 gp, 2 
sp, and 2 cp on his person; his blackened 
treasure coffer holds Treasure Types Q and 
R. 

UaReJIa SbcdstaRR 

Female human, AL NE; AC 4 (dex bonus, 
leather armor); MV 12; T7; hp 32; THACO 
17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type 
(shortsword: ld6; 2 daggers (forearm 
sheaths, Llurella is skilled at throwing 
these): ld4 each, darts (8 at belt): ld3 each; S 
12, D 18, C 15,1 14, W 12, Ch 17, ML 16. Age 
22, height 5'4", weight 86 lbs., long brown 
hair, black eyes, very slim, graceful figure, 
sister to Irion. 

Llurella is a cold, merciless killer who is an 



accomplished dancer and acrobat, an ade 
quate singer, and a sometime lady of the eve 
ning (she carries two rich gowns so as to 
take the guise of a noble lady in need of res 
cuing). Her belt is a doubled 6' length of 
chain that she can unclip in 2 segments to 
wield as a lashing weapon (two-handed 
weapon, does ld4 + l damage). Llurella's 
boots carry two hidden surprises: a garotte, 
which does ld4/round to barenecked beings 
only; victim can break free of this strangula 
tion with a successful bend bars or attack 
roll (made at - 2); and (in an outside-slit, re 
inforced metal sheath), a steel piece-made 
to look like a silver piece coin-with a razor- 
sharp edge, ideal for cutting rope, leather, 
and even wire. Llurella carries 9 gp, 4 sp, 
and 1 cp in a belt pouch; her nondescript 
coffer holds Treasure Types Q ( X 3) and Y. 


Ell 79 J 





Tbe Koigbts of 
M</tb Dnannon 

DMs with access to the FR7 Hall of Heroes 
sourcebook can also bring The Knights of 
Myth Drannor into play; their patrols into 
and near the ruins often bring them onto 
the scene when a band of adventurers is in 
dire need of aid. The Realms novel Spellfire 
shows the characters of the individual 
Knights, and FR7 details their game statis 
tics. Since that sourcebook was published, 
the Knights have continued to gain levels, 
and are now: 

Doust Sulwood: P9 (of Tymora) 

Dove Falconhand: R12 

Florin Falconhand: RIO (his magical shield, 

Reptar's Wall, is detailed in FR4, The Magis - 

ter) 

Illistyl Elventree: W6 

Islif Lurelake: F9 

Jelde Asturien: P9 (of Lathander) 

Jhessail Silvertree: W8 
Lanseril Snowmantle: DIO 
Merith Strongbow: F6/W6 
Rathan Thentraver: P7 (of Tymora) 
Sharantyr: R4 
Tbrm: T7 

These statistics continue to alter (both 
Jhessail and Merith are currently on the 
verge of level advancement), and encoun 
tered Knights each command ld4 +1 magi 
cal items, including the most powerful sorts. 
If the Knights are too powerful, an encount 
er could be with ld4 of them, perhaps ac 
companied by ld3 Harpers of lesser levels. 


a 













The PResence of LattaandeR 




This chapter is useful to DMs bringing NPC 
priests of Lathander in Myth Drannor to 
life, and to players whose characters wor 
ship Lathander anywhere in Faerun (for ex 
ample, in the temple that appears in FRQ1, 
Haunted Halls of Eveningstar). 

Lathander, the Morninglord, is the god of 
spring, dawn, birth, and renewal. Ruined 
Myth Drannor has always represented both 
a challenge to rebuild and a shining example 
of what can be achieved to his faithful. A 
century ago, Lathander appeared to certain 
of his clergy, commanding them to found a 
temple in the ruined city, and giving them 
the Dawnstone for their altar. 

The faithful he appeared to became a spe 
cial order, The Seekers of the Dawn. They 
journeyed to Myth Drannor, braving its 
many perils to build a temple, The Dawn- 
spire. 

Under the protection of the Dawnstone, 
the Seekers have flourished ever since, dili 
gently cleaning and repairing areas of the 
city that they can safely reach, and support 
ing themselves by their brilliant farming 
skills. 

The Davonspine 

The temple consists of a simple conical tow 
er erected by the priests, that rises above an 
oval walled compound perhaps five acres in 
extent. Except for a small clear space in 
front of the tower (used for erecting new ex 
periments and inventions), the compound is 
crammed with growing things: the garden, 
fed by a network of pumps and channels, 
that feeds the priests. 

Some priests are always to be found here, 
tending the garden. Poles throughout the 
garden support both beanstalks and other 
plants, but allow warriors' shields and a few 
precious glass panes to be erected above 
certain plants. The cellars of the Dawnspire 
itself contain much stored food, mushroom 


growing areas, and rooms where priests 
work on restoring recovered Myth Drannan 
items, or devising new things. 

The walls are guarded, both by priests 
and (on patrol outside) the giant beetles they 
magically control. Priests venture forth 
from the compound daily, to explore Myth 
Drannor and scavenge from the ruins and 
the growing forest about. The size of the 
compound is dictated by the size of the 
Dawnstone's magical effects. 

The Davonstone 

This smooth rose-crystal sphere is as large 
around as most shields. It floats above the 
raised chancel, in the innermost, holiest 
chamber of the temple, where the rays of 
the dawn can reach it on every clear morn. 

It glows with an internal light, and is a 
thing of magic, not a real gemstone: those 
who touch it find that their hands pass free 
ly into and through it. It can be moved only 
by magic, or the hand of Lathander, or a 
priest of 12th or greater level faithful to 
him. 

Beings touching the Dawnstone (even 
with gloves, or using a pole or weapon as a 
probe) are affected as follows: 

• Worshippers of Lathander are 
healed of all wounds, their bodies purged 
of any diseases, poisons, foreign objects 
(these are forced out, falling to the 
ground), afflictions (including lycanthro- 
py, feeblemindedness, insanity, and blind 
ness), and magical (or psionic) 
compulsions, fear, and curses. Other be 
ings of like alignment may also be so aided, 
at Laplander's will. The stone cannot raise 
beings from the dead without the appro 
priate priest spell being cast, but if it is 
touching a corpse of the faith of Lathan 
der when such a spell is cast, resurrection 
survival is automatically successful. 

• Priests of Lathander also receive a 









brief message, series of revealing images, or 
feelings to guide them in Laplander's serv 
ice. They pride themselves on touching the 
Dawnstone as little as possible, so as not to 
disturb the Morninglord overmuch. 

• Anyone of evil alignment, or any being 
touching the stone with the intent of de 
stroying it or stealing it away from its serv 
ice to the faithful of Lathander, is affected as 
if by a wizard's energy drain spell. Beings 
transformed into ju-ju zombies by this 
means serve Lathander, protecting the 
stone and doing the bidding of any priest of 
Lathander commanding them. If taken be 
yond the range of the stone (out of the com 
pound), they crumble into dust and bones. 

The Dawnstone's chief benefit to the Seek 
ers is its limited power over the Mythal and 
all magic: within its spherical area of effect, 
it prevents all wild magic, and allows any 
magic used by those of the faith of Lathan 
der to be of maximum power (the highest 
possible duration, damage or beneficial hit- 
point or other effect allowed by a spell or 
magical item discharge). In addition, it 
causes all dweomers to glow with a white 
aura visible to all creatures (including items 
disguised by magic, and magical items 
whose powers normally conceal their 
dweomer). 

Once between every dawn and dusk, the 
Dawnstone, at the bidding of a priest of La 
thander touching it, can shoot forth rosy 
spheres of fire equal to a wizardly meteor 
swarm, which travel at the bidding of the 
priest up to a mile distant. By tradition, only 
the High Priest (or acting head cleric) of the 
Seekers calls upon this power. 

Once every turn, the Dawnstone can also 
shoot two rosy-hued rays up to 100 yards 
distant, equal in effects to a flame strike. 
These rays can be guided and bent by a 
priest of Lathander touching the stone to 
strike at desired targets (who must be visi 
ble to the summoner), but can be deliber 


ately or inadvertently intercepted by other 
living beings-and stop as soon as they 
strike a living creature. The rays can both 
be hurled at the same target, and one can be 
slowed at the summoner's will, to strike a 
round later than the first (so that if a body 
guard blocks the first ray, and falls, the sec 
ond ray can get past to strike at the intended 
being). 

This temple is the only known center of 
worship to Lathander to have such a power- 
ful gift of the god: most have lesser stones 
possessing only the first two touch-powers 
listed above, or no token of Lathander at all. 

Lathander has been known to manifest 
his power in Myth Drannor, as a rosy radi 
ance surrounding the bodies of those he fa 
vors. These brief manifestations confer the 
following benefits: 

• All of the touch-powers conferred by 
the Dawnstone (see above). 

• telekinesis of the bodies of favored be 
ings for short distances, to safety (i.e. they 
may be lifted out of a trap, or out of the 
reach of enemies). 

The god usually manifests only when a 
non-priest faithful to him, or acting for him, 
calls upon him in great need, or prays to him 
with great fervor and generosity of purpose 
(and of offering). The Morninglord may also 
manifest to aid a champion, but seldom di 
rectly aids his clergy; instead, he speaks 
through the Dawnstone, and aids them 
through the bestowal of spells in answer to 
prayer. 

A Simple CReed of 
L atbaodeR 

The charge given to most novice postulants 
to the faith of Lathander is as follows: 
"Strive always to aid, to foster new hope, 
new ideas, and new prosperity, of all hu 
mankind and allies. Perfect thyself, and 


SEES1 


82 frl 














guard ever against pride; for it is a sacred 
duty to foster new growth; nurture growing 
things, and work for rebirth and renewal. 
Be fertile in mind and body; consider always 
the consequences of thine actions; that the 
least effort bring the greatest and best re 
ward. Wherever you gO; sow seeds of 
plants, tend the growing things you find; 
and plant seeds of hope; new ideas, and 
plans for a rosy future in the minds of all. 
Whenever possible, see each dawn." 

Aims of The 
Seekers of the 
Dawn 

The specific strivings and plans of the Myth 
Drannan temple of Lathander are to repair 
what of the city can be repaired, and re 
build or build anew, driving out evil, so that 
ultimately a city will live again-a populous 
city, with the same harmony of races dwell 
ing together, and love of arts and the ad 
vancement of things, that the old Myth 
Drannor had. 

Tb do this, the Seekers battle the baatezu 
and other monsters that they meet, and en 
courage and aid visitors to the city, be they 
adventurers, pilgrims, or just lost folk. 

They carefully gather Myth Drannan mag 
ical items, recharging and repairing them 
when necessary and within their powers, 
and hiding them behind loose stones all over 
the Dawnspire. In the event of violence 
within the temple, the Seekers do not hesi 
tate to break out and use such items, which 
may well include many magical rings and 
weapons detailed in the DUNGEON 
MASTER m Guide, as well as the various mag 
ical items detailed in this boxed set. 

Anyone settling in Myth Drannor is aided 
by the priests on an ongoing basis, so long as 
they return such aid, and are of good align 


ment (the priests tirelessly offer them the 
blessing of Lathander-"the Morninglord 
loves you, and wants you to love him if 
they are not of the faith of Lathander, but do 
not insist on their conversion, or withhold 
aid if it does not occur or is refused). Those 
of Lathander's faith are expected to make 
regular offerings (of ideas, inventions, coin, 
discovered artifacts, or food) to the temple. 
Much more valuable offerings (such as mag 
ical items, or lots of gold) are demanded of 
non-faithful in return for special services 
(such as raising from the dead or rescue mis 
sions). Priests of Lathander often rescue ad 
venturers, but the cost in magic can be high. 

The Ranks of the Seekerzs 

The Seekers are led by Abbess Alaecathra 
Shuinrond (NG hf P16; DEX 17, W18, CHA 
17; AC 7; hp 84; THACO 10; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld6 + 5 mace +4; ML 20). She's a bright- 
eyed, enthusiastic, kindly, diminutive yet 
commanding leader, who knows no fear, 
and will sacrifice herself without hesitation 
if she can serve Lathander best that way. 

She leads a priesthood of 14 adventuring 
priests (5th to 14th level, all experienced in 
finding their ways around Myth Drannor), 
24 non-adventuring clerics (all skilled gar 
deners and foragers), and 26 lay followers 
(including seven fighters, of levels 3rd 
through 6th). 

Prominent among them are Gundlar Iron- 
crown (NG hm P14, Prior of Dawnspire; ST 
17, DEX 16, W 18, CHA 16; AC3; hp 86; 
THACO 12 ( + 1 to hit); #AT V, Dmg 2d4+4 
morningstar +3 and strength bonus; brac 
ers of defense AC3; ML 18); the Sub-prior 
Baerant Tfelcharr (NG hm P12, the grim lead 
er of many battle-forays into Myth Dran 
nor); and the Cellarer, Szuldas Andlath (NG 
hm P9). 

Guests are often escorted by a veteran ad 
venturer and experienced diplomat (once 













stationed in scheming Westgate), Hand of 
Lathander Danreth Tkllathern (NG hm PS), 
who's very good at reading expressions, and 
very knowing in the tricks and stratagems 
of adventurers and shady folk-even when 
he's not using his psionic wild talent of ESP 
(he has 36 PSPs, enabling him to use this 
ability for 6 rounds), 

Danreth is aided, when necessary, by a 
trio of enthusiastic, vivacious, innocent- 
seeming beauties who are both capable ad 
venturers, and every bit aware of how they 
can manipulate men: the priestesses (offi 
cially Sisters, they are often collectively 
known as "the Fingers," because Danreth's 
title is customarily shortened to '"the Hand") 
Shandel Iribar (NG hf P6), Jathalaera Sire 
(NG hf P4), and Arleera Landreth (NG hf P4). 

Ritaals and Tenets 
of Daconspifte 

In the rugged, isolated life of this temple, 
daily rituals, etiquette and dress tend to be 
simpler than at other temples, adhering to 
the basics of Lathander's clergy. 

The most important ceremonies of wor 
ship are the prayers to Lathander at dawn, 
traditionally performed out of doors by the 
entire assembled clergy, who attend unclad 
(even in the coldest depths of winter), facing 
east, to watch the dawn. Opened by a plain- 
song and the drinking of well water that has 
been touched by the light of dawn on an ear 
lier occasion, this ceremony continues with 
a prayer by the Abbess or Prior. A junior 
member of the clergy declaims one of the 
sayings of Lathander ("From death, life, 
"There is always another morning," or "In 
the dawn, beauty reigns, and the way is 
clearer" are favorites), and the Abbess or 
Prior continues with an address to the as 
sembled about the day's tasks or business. 
This may turn into a discussion; it is ended 


by the donning of a rose-red robe by a cho 
sen singer, who performs a solo prayer in 
song to the god. All present then perform 
the Sunrise Chant, and the service ends. 

This ritual is followed in importance by 
the TWilight devotions (performed in robes, 
with a similar format to the Dawn service, 
the address replaced with a plea to Lathan 
der for forgiveness of any shortcomings to 
his service), with an optional prayer and 
song at Highsun. 

Tb these daily devotions are added special 
prayers said when offerings are presented 
at the altar, and when priests call on Lathan 
der for guidance (divination spells) or aid 
(when raising the dead, for example). Most 
clergy are not raised unless they are needed 
to complete a task: for clergy, death is con 
sidered a reward, in "going to Lathander" 
Funerals are not held for those who are to 
be raised; for others, they consist of a sol 
emn, sad candlelit ceremony called The Go 
ing Down, which follows the Twilight 
Service, and is followed by a wake, lasting 
until Dawn service. 

Far more importance is placed on acting 
in the service of Lathander by helping, en 
couraging, and aiding than in strict adher 
ence to rituals, rules, and the dictates of 
superior clergy. This point of view is shared 
by Lathander and his senior clergy. 

Only a few priests at Dawnspire own the 
gold-trimmed sun-robes common at most 
temples. During the day, the priests dress 
practically (most adventuring priests wear 
chainmail, the only identifying mark of La 
thander being a rose-red circle on their 
shields and helm-brows), donning robes for 
TWilight service and for special occasions. 

The ritual robes used at Dawnspire (and 
in most rural temples of the Inner Sea 
North, such as the one at Eveningstar) are 
simple cassocks, with a color scheme by 
rank: outsiders wear grey or their own 
clothes; novices and postulants wear 
















brown; adepts and underpriests wear rus 
set and crimson; senior priests wear scarlet; 
sub-priors and those of higher rank wear 
rose-red, and the leader of the temple (the 
Abbess, in this case) wears white. 

The Magic op the 
MoRoiagloRd 

Priests of Lathander are allowed to wield a 
wide variety of spells, with the accent on 
healing and helping magic. Major sphere ac 
cess is granted to: all, astral, charm, crea 
tion, elemental, healing, plant, sun, wards, 
and weather; minor spheres are combat, 
divination, and guardian. Note that the 
spells named for Lathander are exceptions 
to these restrictions. 

Within these broad restrictions, Lathan- 
derian priests can pray for and receive all 
the spells in the Players Handbook and 
Tbme of Magic. In addition to such widely- 
known magics, Lathander grants specific 
spells to his faithful, in answer to their pray 
ers. Some of these appear hereafter; note 
that the censure spell is used by many faiths 
in the Realms. 

As part of Lathander's dictates to help oth 
ers, priests of Lathander (in exchange for. 
suitable offerings) are willing to teach the 
necessary prayers to PC priests for all of the 
spells listed below (except those with La 
thander's name in the spell name; they are 
to be taught only to clergy of Lathander). 
They may also sell these spells on scrolls, for 
1000 gp per spell level of each spell on a 
scroll (faithful of Lathander may receive a 
discount, at the priests' option). 



LatbaodewaD 

Pmest Speils 

FiRst-Leael Spell 


Rosemantle (Alteration, Necromancy) 

Sphere: Protection 
Range: Tbuch 
Components: V,S 
Duration: 2 + ld4 rounds 
Casting Time: 1 

Area of Effect: Creature touched 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell causes the affected being (who 
must be living, and may be the caster) to 
glow with a soft, faint rosy radiance. Until 
the spell expires or is dispelled, the spell re 
cipient can move and function with the 
same freedom a ring of free action grants, 
and is temporarily released from any nega 
tive modifiers or activity restrictions due to 




85 

















naturally or magically induced pain, nausea, 
fear, or venom effects (effects of the latter 
sort are suspended by the spell, but not ne 
gated or lessened in any way). 

Second-LeoeJ Spell 

Rosetouch (Alteration) 

Sphere: Creation 
Range: Tbuch 
Components: V,S 
Duration: Permanent 
Casting Time: 2 

Area of Effect: Object touched (one item, 
which cannot be larger in volume than the 
caster's body) 

Saving Throw: None 

This spell causes the caster's hands to glow 
with a bright rose-red radiance. At any time 
after the spell is cast (until the priest casts 
another spell, loses consciousness, or dies), 
the caster can choose to mend any one item. 

The item must be touched by the caster, 
who must deliberately choose to affect it 
(items cannot be restored by accident). The 
item may have been once living or even 
presently living (the spell closes gaping 
wounds-even over a foreign object-and 
closes off veins and arteries to prevent fur 
ther blood loss, but cannot restore lost hit 
points, life-force, or functioning organs, nor 
knit together severed limbs). 

As the item is mended, the rosy glow 
pulses brightly, surrounds the item, and 
then fades-and at the end of the round in 
which the rosetouch is bestowed, the item is 
whole. 

This spell is often used to mend broken 
weapons or tools; although it cannot restore 
the dweomer of a magical weapon, its repair 
work is permanent: if a dispel magic is later 
cast on the repaired weapon, its former 
damage does not reappear. A weapon that 


has been rosetouched gains no attack or 
damage bonuses, but counts as a magical 
weapon for purposes of what can be hit by 
it, for 1 round per level of the caster of this 
spell. 

Tbted-Leoel Spell 

Sunrise (Evocation, Alteration) 

Sphere: Sun 

Range: Tbuch 

Components: V,S,M 

Duration: 1 + ld4 rounds or Special 

Casting Time: 3 

Area of Effect: 5-foot-sphere centered on 
one being 

Saving Throw: Special 

With this spell, the caster can evoke a daz 
zling sphere of light around himself or a 
touched being or item, equal to natural sun 
light. All beings in contact with the sphere 
lose the use of infra vision for 2d4 rounds 
(half that if a save vs. spell is successful). 

Vampires and other undead, fungoid crea 
tures, and subterranean fungi in contact 
with the sphere suffer 4d6 damage (half if a 
saving throw is successful), and upon their 
first contact (only) with the dazzling radi 
ance are affected as if by a confusion spell 
on the round following contact (they may 
continue an attack or fighting actions that 
bring them into the light, but on the next 
round hesitate, unable to attack or take any 
deliberate action). 

Creatures harmed by sunlight are affect 
ed as if caught in actual sunlight (undead de 
stroyed by sunlight receive a saving throw 
to avoid destruction). 

The caster of this spell can choose to have 
it "hang fire," not taking effect until a word 
of activation (whispered during casting) is 
spoken (again). The spell can be centered on 
another being, who must be touched during 



a 












Tbe Presence op LatbaodeR 





casting. 

The spell effect occurs at any later time 
when the word is spoken (unless the touch 
ed being dies first, or is affected by a dispel 
magic). If the spell is cast to "hang fire" cen 
tered on the caster, it may be activated by 
silent force of will alone; no word need be 
spoken. The spell is not affected by other 
spellcasting or magical activity on the part 
of the caster, but its delayed effect cannot be 
unleashed in the same round as the caster 
activates a magical item or casts a spell. 

The material components of the spell are 
an aster seed and a piece of sunstone (aven- 
turine feldspar). 


FoaRtb-Leoel Spells 

Boon of Lathander 
(Conjuration/Summoning) 

Sphere: Combat 
Range: 0 
Components: V,S 
Duration: 2 rounds 
Casting Time: 4 
Area of Effect: One being 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell acts on the caster or on one touch 
ed being. On the two rounds following the 
round of casting, the spell recipient receives 
bonuses of +1 on attack rolls and +1 on all 
saving throws, and is allowed 1 extra attack 
per round. The spell recipient glows with a 
rose-red faerie fire -like radiance during this 
time of augmented ability. 






























Censure (Alteration, 
Illusion/Phantasm) 

Sphere: All 

Range: Tbuch 

Components: V,S,M 

Duration: 66 turns/level 

Casting Time: 4 

Area of Effect: One being 

Saving Throw: Neg. 

Tb enact this spell, the caster must touch a 
target creature with his holy symbol (a suc 
cessful attack roll is required). If the touch is 
made, the priest can then choose to unleash 
the spell, "casting out" the touched being by 
word and gesture. 

If the target being fails a save vs. spell, the 
censure succeeds. The being receives a mag 
ical mark visible only to the caster and those 
of the same faith. Tb them, this mark is al 
ways brightly visible; disguises (including 
heavy clothing, invisibility, other magic, and 
shapeshifting) cannot conceal it. 

Priests of a different faith but the same 
alignment as the caster of a censure cannot 
see the mark, but instinctively react with 
fear, hatred, and aversion to the censured 
being, and won't trust or willingly aid it. 

All beings of the same faith as the caster of 
a censure instinctively know the mark for 
what it is, and refuse to aid or even ap 
proach a censured creature, ignoring it if it 
tries to deal with them (though they aren't 
prevented from hearing its speech or 
sounds, and seeing its gestures). They can 
strike at it (at -1 on all attack rolls), and are 
driven to do so, to drive the censured being 
away, if it tries to enter a building, lair, or 
territory controlled by one who can see the 
mark. 

The mark is invisible to the one bearing it, 
who may not even know of its existence if it 
was bestowed in a battle or while the victim 
was asleep or unconscious. It shines bright 


ly enough that worshippers can readily spy 
upon and follow a marked being, even in 
crowds or dark places. 

The mark can be revealed to others by a 
detect magic, and readily removed by a dis 
pel magic. Priests are warned that misuse of 
such a spell brings about swift divine disfav 
or. 

The material component of this spell is the 
caster's holy symbol, which is not consumed 
in the casting. 

Control Aratha (Enchantment/Charm) 

Sphere: Animal 

Range: 100 yards/level 

Components: V,S,M 

Duration: 1 turn + 1 round/level 

Casting Time: 4 

Area of Effect: One giant insect 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell was developed by the priests of 
Dawnspire to enable them to control local 
giant "killer beetles," or arathas, to serve as 
temple guardians. It works on all magical in 
sects who fail a saving throw vs. spells. Only 
one insect can be controlled per spell; the 
caster must possess a scale, piece of chitin, 
or body part of the same type of insect for 
the spell to work. This material, which is 
consumed in the casting, can be a dried 
husk or remnant, and may be from any size 
of related insect (a giant wasp could be con 
trolled by a spell using the wing of a normal 
wasp as its material component). 

The insect cannot be used as a steed by 
the caster, because of the particular nature 
of the magic, which enables the caster to 
precisely control the insect from afar. This 
magical telefactoring involves the caster 
making movements that are imitated as pre 
cisely as possible (given differing body 
types) by the insect. Thus, a priest could 
force a beetle to follow a complex route, pull 


2EE 


88 B 













The Presence of LathandeR 



a lever, push chess pieces about on a board, 
and perform other complex tasks, to the 
limits its body allows. 

Fipeh-Leoel Spell 

Shield of Lathander (Conjuration/ 
Summoning) 

Sphere: Guardian 
Range: 0 
Components: V,S 
Duration: 1 round 
Casting Time: 5 
Area of Effect: One being 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell acts on the caster or on one touch 


ed being (if the recipient is unwitting or un 
willing, and engaged in combat, a successful 
attack roll may be necessary to make con 
tact; this must be done within 3 rounds of 
casting, or the spell is wasted and lost). It 
protects the recipient creature from all 
damage due to purely physical means on the 
round following the touch. 

The protected being takes full normal 
damage from spells and magical item dis 
charges, but the physical component of an 
enchanted weapon attack is negated: a long 
sword +2 striking a protected recipient of 
this spell would do only 2 hit points of dam 
age (due to its magical bonus). Enchanted 
weapons lacking pluses do only 1 hp dam 
age. 






















Sixth-Leoel Spell 

False Dawn (Evocation) 

Sphere: Sun 
Range: 0 

Components: V,S,M 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Casting Time: 6 

Area of Effect: 30-foot-radius sphere 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell consumes a clear, red* or yellow- 
hued gemstone (or stones) of not less than 
1000 gp total value, that fades away to noth 
ingness in the caster's hand. It calls into ex 
istence a bright reddish light, as if a sunrise 
were occurring, within the area of effect. 
This light is bright enough to read by, dis 
pels magical darkness, and persists for the 
spell duration despite any attempts to dispel 
it (or establish magical darkness in the area). 

Beings within a false dawn are affected as 
follows: all undead suffer 7d4 points of dam 
age (no saving throw allowed; if this de 
stroys them, the remains instantly crumble, 
and can never again be animated to un 
death), and act as if confused on the round 
after the false dawn appears (they cannot 
move, launch attacks, or use specific magi 
cal powers of their own volition); all crea 
tures using infravision have it foiled during 
the dawn and for ld4 rounds after it ends or 
they leave its area; and creatures of evil 
alignment make attack rolls at - 3. 

The caster cannot choose to exempt any 
creatures from these effects, which can af 
fect unintended or unknown beings (the 
spherical area of effect extends below the 
caster's ground level, and into the air 
above). 


Seoenth-Leoel Spell 

Greater Shield of Lathander 
(Conjuration/Summoning) 

Sphere: Guardian 
Range: 0 
Components: V,S 
Duration: 1 round 
Casting Time: 7 
Area of Effect: One being 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell acts on the caster or on one touch 
ed being (if the recipient is unwitting or un 
willing, and engaged in combat, a successful 
attack roll may be necessary to make con 
tact; this must be done within 3 rounds of 
casting, or the spell is wasted and lost). It 
protects the recipient creature from all 
damage (magical and physical) on the round 
following the touch (and suspends the func 
tioning of any magical geas, quest, or other 
compulsions on that being, including psionic 
controls and attacks). 

Note that protected beings in, or placed in, 
damage-taking situations during the round 
of protection (pinned under water), leaping 
off cliffs, or buried under rockslides or col 
lapsing buildings) are not rendered immune 
to damage: on the next round, they suffer 
the full normal damage that the situation 
dictates. Beings can, however, use the round 
of grace caused by this spell to activate heal 
ing or escaping magics. 
















The nagara who dwell in Myth Drannor are 
dark nagas (the lawful evil species of naga- 
kind). They came to the city as slaves of the 
Phaerimm, but most are now fiercely 
independent-and even those still serving 
Phaerimm masters are loathe to attack their 
free fellows. 

The nagara can roam freely in the forest, 
and sometimes seek it when beset by baate- 
zu, or when hungry for forest game. Other 
wise they keep to the Mythal's confines, 
hunting down adventurers for food and 
sport-or to take them captive, and strip 
their magic from them. 

The nagara are trying to amass sufficient 
magic to rise up and destroy the Phaerimm 
with some hope of success-and they'll take 
potions, scrolls, items, spellbooks, wizards 
(who are kept as valued captives, in subter 
ranean lairs under the city), and anything 
else they can, to do it. 

The nagara are ruled by the Seven, a 
council of 9-Hit-Die nagas who venerate 
Ssharstrune "the Ghost Naga," a wraith-like 
apparition who appears only above a cer 
tain altar and speaks to the Seven in a hiss 
ing whisper. (This entity is actually a 
deception worked by the lich Druth Daern, 
who uses this means to manipulate the na 
gara into leaving him alone, and attacking 
the Phaerimm-something they hunger to 
do anyway. It is only a matter of time before 
the nagara have enough magic to discover 
Daern's trickery, but in truth the revelation 
of Ssharstrune's non-existence will have lit 
tle effect on the plans of the nagara, except 
to add Daern to their list of beings to de 
stroy.) 

With Daern's help, slain nagas are brought 
back to serve their living kin as bone nagas 
(a new undead monster, detailed in this 
boxed set). Daern takes care that the incan 
tation used in their creation ensures that 
they can never attack him. 

In addition to their undead fellows, the na 


gara surround themselves with venomous 
snakes (whose poisons they are immune to), 
who serve to herd prey to the nagara, dis 
able or deter attackers, and to slither over 
their naga masters in a sensual ballet of skin 
rubbing against skin (akin to the enjoyment 
brought to hard-working humans by a mas 
sage). 

The dark nagas are INT 16; AL LE; AC 6; 
MV 13; HD 9; THACO 11 (13 for smaller, 7- 
HD individuals); #AT 2; Dmg ld4 (bite), 2d4 
(tail sting: to physical damage add poison- 
save or take ld2 additional hp damage and 
fall into a drugged sleep for 2d4 rounds, on 
set time 1 round); SA spell use (as 6th-level 
wizard, spells: 4,2,2); SD immune to all nor 
mal and magical acids, venoms, and poisons 
(can swallow poison and then spit it 10' or 
transmit it with a bite); SZ L (up to 12' long); 
ML 15; XP 4,000; MC11. 

They have constant 80'-range ESP (ham 
pered by the mythal), and use verbal-only 
spells (choose from basic wizard spells and 
the Phaerimm spells presented in this 
sourcebook; the nagara originally learned 
their magic from their Phaerimm masters). 
They can swallow items temporarily, carry 
ing these in a bag-like internal organ that 
shields magic inside it from detection. 

A typical nagara spell load follows: 1st: 
dancing fire*, magic missile ( X 3) (3 missiles 
per spell)/2nd: toothed tentacle*, web! 3rd: 
dispel magic, lightning bolt. Asterisks mark 
spells in this book. 

Bone nagas are INT 16; AL LE; AC 6; MV 
11; HD 7; THACO 13; #AT 2; Dmg ld4 plus 
ld4 chill (physical bite damage and save vs. 
spell or lose ld4 additional hp and lose 1 
strength point, identical to lst-level wizard 
spell chill touch), 2d4 plus ld4 chill (tail 
sting); SA spell use (as 6th-level wizard, 
spells: 4,2,2; spells set when created, re 
gained without study); SD immune to gases, 
acids, venoms, and poisons, same spell im 
munities as zombies (see MCI zombie en- 


91 H 











Tbe NagaRa 




try); SZ L (up to 12' long); ML 20 (fearless, 
must serve nagara or other master abso 
lutely); XP 4,000; detailed in this boxed set. 

The snakes are of the "poison, normal" va 
riety, and are INT 1; AL N; AC 6; MV 15; HD 
2 +1; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1 plus poison; 
SA poison (for effects see table in MCI en 
try); SZ S (up to 5' long); ML 8; XP 175; MCI. 
Some may be mutations with two heads, 
forked tails, or snail-like "horns," but all 
share the same basic characteristics. 

Over the years, the nagara have gathered 
several caches of magical items (they can 
use any magical items they can carry in 
their jaws or prehensile tails, or that they 
can prop on something, touch to aim or trig 
ger, as they speak the command words for), 
coinage, and gems. A typical nagara trea 
sure cache is guarded by ldl2 snakes and 
ld4 nagas (each of which has a 20% chance 
of bearing a magical item they know how to 
use). A cache consists of either 3d4 magical 


items (most minor, such as scrolls, potions, 
statuettes bearing dweomers, feather to 
kens, and the like) or treasure types A, B, 
IX 6, R, Y, or Z. 

The nagara are willing to trade with foes 
they cannot defeat, or even offer money to 
persistent and successful foes, to leave them 
alone. They are extremely reluctant to sur 
render magic-and trade worthless things, 
or lay traps and ambushes to regain the lost 
items. 













One of the chief irritants to the Alhoon and 
baatezu alike, as they explore the ruins of 
Myth Drannor, is the insane, unpredictable 
master of magic known as Druth Daern. 

Druth (sometimes he renders his name as 
"Druuth," which is how it sounds) was a bril 
liant, evil human archmage who was pre 
paring himself for lichdom when the city 
was attacked. He hid during the final battle, 
and then ransacked the ruins for magic. 
When he later became a lich, his undead na 
ture was twisted by the mythal as it was 
forming, into something more than most 
liches. 

Tbday, Druth Daern commands an army 
of skeletons and zombies, most of them for 
merly adventurers who came to the city. He 
uses them in his endless struggle for control 
of the city, and possession of its magic, 
against the Alhoon and baatezu. (Alhoon 
who try to contact or attack his insane mind 
psionically are themselves rendered tempo 
rarily insane-and even when they or the 
baatezu do manage to destroy Druth 
Daern's form, his spirit animates another 
corpse or undead, somewhere near the city, 
and he returns, to fight on.) 

Druth Daern's lichnee nature is different 
than most: his phylactery is hidden some 
where far from Myth Drannor, and until it is 
destroyed, he cannot rest; even if his body is 
disintegrated, his spirit animates another 
host, transforming it until it has all the 
powers his last body did (a process requir 
ing 2dl0 days). 

This gives Druth Daern no fear of oblivi 
on, and makes him a deadly opponent. His 
abilities are greater than those of most 
liches, too: he is Int 19; AL CE; AC 0; MV 12; 
HD 21; 96 hp; THACO 14; #AT 1; Dmg by 
spell or weapon type; SA spell use (as 21st- 
level wizard: 5,5,5,5,5,4,4,4,2-and his links 
to the mythal make his magic very likely to 
succeed: there is only a 1 in 6 chance that 
any magic wielded by Daern twists out of 


his control); SD insanity gives him complete 
immunity to telepathic psionics, undead 
spell immunities; MR 20% (in other words, 
his links to the mythal make any magic used 
against him 20% likely to go "wild" even af 
ter it has passed all of the usual hurdles de 
scribed in "The Mythal" chapter); SZ M (6' 
tall); ML 18; XP 6,000 (unless destroyed for 
ever: 8,000). 

Druth Daern has no use for coins and 
gems, except as spell components (and he 
has access to more material components in 
the ruins than most mages ever see, in their 
entire lives). 

Druth Daern always carries magical items 
and spells (a typical roster appears below), 
and is usually accompanied by 2d4 skele 
tons, ld6 zombies, and ld3 ju-ju zombies 
(or, if trying to attack stealthily, ld6 ju-ju 
zombies only). He hurls them recklessly into 
battle, caring nothing for what befalls 
them-and due to the nature of the mythal, 
control of them can never be wrested from 
him, nor can they or he be turned (or dis 
pelled) while within the mythal. 

Druth Daern can be met with anywhere 
in the ruins, usually skulking or strolling ca 
sually about, apparently alone. He sings, 
cackles, and chuckles softly a lot, but can 
adopt a fearsome, powerful manner when 
he wishes to impress newcomers. 

He always wears at least one magical ring, 
and carries 1 or 2 wands plus a rod, staff, or 
ld4 items of miscellaneous magic. The DM 
should choose items for any encounter, but 
typically, Druth has: a ring of blinking and a 
ring of fire resistance , a rod of smiting (33 
charges), a wand of frost (74 charges), a 
wand of paralyzation (16 charges), a brooch 
of shielding (can absorb 86 hit points before 
exhausted), and several beads of force (all of 
these items are detailed in the DMG). Even if 
he doesn't carry a magical staff, Daern al 
ways bears a showy-looking staff of black 
wood (he may toss it carelessly away to im- 
















press foes, or to lure one of them into trying 
to reach this non-magical item, and coming 
within reach of one of his spells). 

A typical roster of spells carried by Daern, 
by level, is as follows (spells in italics are 
found in the Thine of Magic sourcebook, 
spells marked with an asterisk appear in 
this set): 

1st 

feather fall 
fire burst 

magic missile x 3 (each spell generates 5 
missiles) 

2nd 

flaming sphere 
levitate 

Maximilian's earthen grasp 

pyrotechnics 

web 

3rd 

alacrity 
dispel magic 
fireball 
lightning bolt 

protection from normal missiles 
4th 

Evard's black tentacles 
greater malison 
polymorph other 
thunder staff 
weave mythal* 

5th 

cone of cold 
far reaching III 
passwall 
telekinesis 
wall of iron 

6th 

chain lightning X 2 


death spell 

Forest's fiery constrictor 
7th 

delayed blast fireball 
forcecage 
limited wish 
reverse gravity 

8th 

incendiary cloud 
polymorph any object 
power word, blind 
Serten's spell immunity 

9th 

meteor swarm 
power word, kill 

Daern also usually carries ld4 scrolls. A 
typical assortment consists of fireball Max 
imilian's stony grasp, minor malison, and 
wizard sight (each spell, has its own scroll, 
but all of the scrolls bear the same spell re 
peated thrice). The latter three spells all ap 
pear in the Tbme of Magic sourcebook. 

The Spell-Tbme of Daern, the lich's main 
spellbook, floats amid traps in a hidden lair 
somewhere near Myth Drannor, guarded by 
monsters and also home to lesser spellbooks 
and magic items-but not housing the lich's 
phylactery. 


T 


"* 


4 


94 


r- 











Tbe Spell-Tome op DaeRD 




The main working spellbook of the lich 
Druth Daern, this volume is as large as 
many shields, and as thick as a man's hand 
(its pages are sheets of stamped and graven 
metal). Druth Daern adds sheets as he per 
fects and writes the spells, so this book has 
no blank pages. 

The Spell-Tbme of Daern levitates (an in 
nate property of the book, when command 
ed) in a hidden lair somewhere near Myth 
Drannor, surrounded by various alarm 
spells. A trained watchspider lurks above it, 
trained to pull the trigger of a wand of para- 
lyzation that Druth has enspelled to go off 
without his touch or speech. This wand, hid 
den in a wall near ceiling height, is trained 
on the book, and enables the spider to 
freeze at least one thief before it attacks. It 
clings to a thin, black cord hanging from the 
ceiling, and can descend by this cord to just 
above the spellbook (watchspiders do not 
spin or use webs, but can climb walls and 
cling to ceilings as most spiders do). 

If any hand but Daern's touches the book, 
wall panels slide open by the entrance to the 
room, and eight monster zombies emerge. 
They attack anyone holding the book until 
destroyed. One has been given the power to 
cast a paralyze spell (must touch victim, 
save vs. spell or be paralyzed for 2d4 
rounds) by means of an imbue undead with 
spell ability spell (which appears in the 
FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Adventures source- 
book). These magics were worked by an ap 
prentice of Daern, since imprisoned in a 
former halfling-hole in the forest near the 
ruined city, so that Druth need not contin 
ually lack one of his third-level wizard 
spells. 

The watchspider is INT 7; AL LN; AC 6; 
MV 18; HD 2+2; 16 hp; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6 (bite); SA poison (if bitten, save vs. 
poison at +1 or be paralyzed for 2d4 turns, 
onset time ld2 rounds); SZ M (6' in diame 
ter); ML 17; XP 420; FOR2. 


The monster zombies are INT 0; AL N; AC 
6; MV 9; HD 6; hp 46, 44 x 6, and 41; THACO 
15; #AT 1; Dmg 4d4; SD undead spell immu 
nities ; SZ L (8' -12' tall: formerly ettins, 
bugbears, and an owlbear); ML 20; XP 650; 
MCI. 

Druth Daern may well have other, more 
sophisticated traps set up to guard his lair. 
Druth has all the spells from the Spell-Tbme 
stored elsewhere, in a variety of scrolls and 
lesser volumes, in case the book is stolen; 
but should it be "liberated," he will not be 
pleased, and will bend all of his magic to 
tracing the thieves, and sending various evil 
creatures to slay them and regain the book. 

The Spell-Tbme is bound in black, scaly, 
swamp wyvernhide, and is emblazoned 
with a brass eye that bears a minor enchant 
ment allowing it to open, close, blink, and 
shift its gaze around to survey various near 
by things-such as moving beings. A magic 
mouth hisses "Beware, for Druth's curse is 
upon you!" whenever any hand but Daern's 
touches the book, but both eye and hand are 
harmless scare-off-thieves devices. 

The Spell-Tbme currently has 160 pages, 
and holds that many spells (one to a page). 
They are listed below (spells in italics appear 
in the 1bme of Magic sourcebook, spells 
marked with an asterisk appear in this 
boxed set, and spells in boldface appear in 
the FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Adventures 
sourcebook). Spells from other Realms 
sources appear with the product number in 
parentheses after their names. It is immedi 
ately apparent that Druth Daern has mas 
tered spells from all schools of magic; DMs 
should consider the possible effects on play 
of allowing PCs access to these spells before 
allowing them any possibility of gaining ac 
cess to the book. 
















1st 

affect normal fires 
alarm 
catapult 
color spray 

comprehend languages 

dancing lights 

deflection* 

detect magic 

dreamspeak (FRQ1) 

feather fall 

fire burst 

gaze reflection 

hold portal 

identify 

light 

magic missile 

mending 

message 

phantasmal force 
read magic 
sleep 

spider climb 
unseen servant 

2nd 

Agannazar's scorcher 

blindness 

blur 

continual light 
darkness, 15' radius 
detect invisibility 
flaming sphere 

flying fist 

knock 

know alignment 
levitate 

Maximilian's earthen grasp 
magic mouth 
mist magic (FA1) 
poisonstar* 

protection from cantrips 
pyrotechnics 
ray of enfeeblement 
ray of Ondovir (FRQ1) 


rope trick 

shatter 

strength 

undead mount 
vocalize 

web 

wizard lock 
3rd 

alacrity 

call undead (FA1) 

dire charm 

dispel magic 

dispel silence 

feign death 

fireball 

hold person 

hold undead 

infravision 

lightning bolt 

Maximilian's stony grasp 

minor malison 

paralyze 

protection from normal missiles 
skull watch 
squaring the circle 
tongues 

waves of weariness 

wizard sight 
wraithform 

4th 

Beltyn's burning blood 
Caligarde's claw 

confusion 
detect scrying 
Evard's black tentacles 
fire trap 
greater malison 
Ilyykur's mantle 
mask of death 
minor creation 
missile mastery 
polymorph other 
Rary's mnemonic enhancer 


EE 


96 













The Spell-Tome op Daerzn 




remove curse 
speak with dead (FRQ1) 
spectral wings 
thunder staff 
wall of ice 
weave mythal* 
wizard eye 

5th 

animate dead 

cloudkill 

cone of cold 

disguise undead 

far reaching III 

feeblemind 

hold monster 

improved skull watch 

ironguard 

magic jar 

magic staff 

major creation 

Nulathoe's ninemen 


passwall 

Presper's moonbow 

sending 

shroud of flame 

telekinesis 
teleport 
wall of iron 
wall of stone 

6th 

anti-magic shell 
blade of doom 

chain lightning 
death spell 
enchant an item 
eyebite 

Forest's fiery constrictor 
globe of invulnerability 

Grimwald's Greymantle 

guards and wards 

imbue undead with spell ability 
power word: silence 
















Tbe Spell -Tome op D aerzn 



permanent illusion 
programmed illusion 

reconstruction 

reincarnation 

repulsion 

teleport dead 

true seeing 


scribed in the chapter on Alhoon spells in 
this sourcebook. Another, weave mythal, 
appears below; 

FociRtb Leoel 
Wizard Spell 


7th 

banishment 
control undead 
delayed blast fireball 
forcecage 
limited wish 
Malec-Keth's flame fist 
power word, stun 
reverse gravity 
shadowcat 
spectral guard 
spell turning 
spelltrap 
suffocate 

teleport without error 
8th 

binding 

demand 

incendiary cloud 
Otto's irresistible dance 
permanency 
polymorph any object 
power word, blind 
Serten's spell immunity 
sink 
symbol 

9th 

imprisonment 
meteor swarm 
power word, kill 

spellstrike 

spell invulnerability 

time stop 


Weaoe Mytbal 
(Alternation) 

Range: 60 yards 
Components: V,S 
Duration: 1 turn 
Casting Time: 4 

Area of Effect: 30'-radius sphere or special 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell renders magic wielded by the 
caster, or another chosen being (wherever 
the magic takes effect, and regardless of the 
movements of the caster or chosen being), 
or all magic cast in a specific 30'-radius 
sphere to be free of mythal influence for the 
spell duration. In other words, the magic is 
free of mythal prohibitions, wild magic, 
power fluctuations, and augmentations (see 
the chapter on "The Mythal," in this source- 
book). 

If a dispel magic is cast on the caster or 
affected being, or in the area in which the 
weaving has taken effect (even if the dispel 
is not specifically directed at this spell), the 
weave mythal effects immediately end-and 
a random wild magic effect occurs, even if 
no magic is currently operating or being 
cast. 

Elminster warns that Druth Daern is con 
stantly working on new spells-beware! 


Some of the spells in this tome are de- 














Of old, in the city of Myth Drannor, many 
gods were worshipped: it was a time of tol 
erance, of new beginnings, and of many 
strange, now-forgotten faiths. The evil god 
Moander was venerated in Sembia and the 
Moonsea North; altars were built to Garagos 
the Reaver in Westgate and the Vilhon (be 
fore that scarlet-cloaked, many-armed war- 
god was destroyed by mighty Tfempus); 
Southern wizards prayed to Savras the All- 
Seeing-and in Myth Drannor, men called 
upon Shaundakul to aid them. 

Shaundakul, the Rider of the Winds, was 
sometimes called The Helping Hand. He was 
a keen-eyed guide, who pointed out the hid 
den lodes and ways of the North, and 
brought luck and battle-valor to worship 
pers in need. 

Shaundakul's worshippers were humans 
and a few half-elves, mostly rangers and 
miners exploring the Moonsea North. He 
was a god for brave adventurers and trav 
elers (including, notably, caravan- 
merchants). His major temple in the Realms 
was Shaundakul's Throne in Myth Drannor, 
though he had many shrines in the North (if 
you find a stone dais atop a high place, 
crowned with a stone seat or throne and ac 
companied by one or more stone pillars 
pierced with holes that the wind whistles 
through, you have found one of them). 

When Myth Drannor fell and its people 
were slain or scattered, Shaundakul's wor 
ship dwindled. All of his clergy and most of 
his faithful perished in the final battle 
against the Army of Darkness; only a few 
prospectors and caravan-merchants still 
worship him today, in a quiet, underground 
cult or fellowship. 

His only known priests today are Juxril 
Thammarcast of Waterdeep (hm P9), who 
can be found worshipping at The Plinth; 
Eldrisel Tylosar in Huddagh (hm P6); As- 
zerra Untlimmer in Ordulin (a fat, motherly 
hf P6); Phelos Mistarn in Hillsfar (an elderly, 


grim hm P7, a noted scholar on the history 
of the Dragonreach); Maurith Slindearyl in 
Elventree (a beautiful, very young hf P4); 
and Waertin Nanszrai (an aging, bespecta 
cled half-elven male P8) in Elmwood. 

Shaundakul's avatar may still appear in 
answer to a priest's cry for divine aid from a 
threatened altar, or the dying or sacrificial 
plea of a faithful worshipper who has per 
formed heroic and spectacular feats. As in 
all divine matters, a little goes a long way; 
discretion is advised, and if a manifestation 
can serve better than an avatar appearance, 
use the former! 

Roleplaying Notes: Shaundakul is a god 
of few words; he lets deeds speak for him. 
He is kind and yet stern, but often displays a 
rugged sense of humor-very much like a 
larger-than-life human ranger. Although he 
has been known to appear to lost or injured 
worshippers at their campfires by night, 
and even to stand and fight (with a great 
two-handed Sword of Shadows) when 
wolves, ores, or worse menace a worship 
per who has called on him, he is more likely 
to manifest himself as a glowing, speaking 
hand surrounded by whirling winds, to 
point the way. 

Statistics: AL CN; WAL travelers, miners, 
and explorers in the North (human and half- 
elven, all alignments); SY an upright left 
hand, palm out and fingers together, its 
wrist trailing away into rippling winds (and 
sometimes depicted on a background of cir 
cling winds). The hand is silver, and the 
background dark (black or deep purple). 

Shandakul's Avatar (Fighter 14, Wizard 
12, Priest 12) 

Shaundakul appears as a tall (6' to 18'), 
handsome man of dark hair and regal man 
ner, clad in a swirling dark cloak that is al 
ways whipped as if by swirling winds, and 


sazp 

99 h 














Steaundakul, RideR of t be Winds 



blurs the outlines of his figure (usually only 
the head and arms are clearly seen). He is 
plainly dressed in the leather armor favored 
by most rangers, and his booted feet never 
quite touch the ground, so that he walks in 
silence, but for the keening whistle of winds 
that is always with him. 

He is armed with a sword of shadows (a 
+ 5 two-handed sword that grows from 6' 
to 14' long, depending on the avatar's 
present size, that does triple damage to un- 
dead, and double damage to giant-class crea 
tures and all goblinkind, such as ores, 
hobgoblins, kobolds, and the like). Shaunda- 
kul uses spells of all schools, but primarily 
acts to heal and protect worshippers or to 
show them the way to success (employing 
healing, abjuration, and divination magics). 

Str 19 Dex 17 Con 20 

Int 18 Wis 18 Cha 18 

MV 12 FI 36 SZMtoH MR 25% 

AC 0 HD 14 hp 112 

#AT 1 THACO 7 Dmg ld4 + 7 (fist) 

(+ 3 to hit) to ld67 (when 15' 
in height) 

With his sword of shadows , Shaundakul is 
+ 8 to hit, and does ldlO + 7 points of dam 
age (3d6 + 7 to L-sized foes except 2dl0 + 7 
to all giant-class creatures, and 3dl0 + 7 to 
all undead). 

Special Attacks/Defenses: Shaundakul 
(with his sword and all other items he car 
ries) can instantly become a swirling, shad 
owy figure of winds in any round in which 
he uses no magic. In this form, he suffers 
only half damage from purely physical at 
tacks. It takes him a round to solidify. He can 
use magic while in wind-form, but cannot 
make physical attacks. 

Shaundakul can cast a spell and make a 
single physical attack in the same round. He 
regenerates 1 hp/turn, and can cast a gust of 


wind as often as he desires. His avatar can 
be slain, but the demigod can create another 
in 2d20 days. His home plane is Gladsheim, 
due to the element of goodness in his na 
ture, and there his magic resistance is 50% 
and he regenerates 1 hp/round. On Glads 
heim all sorts of weapons can affect him, 
but in the Realms only magical weapons can 
harm him. Natural extremes of heat and 
cold have no effect on him. 

As with other Faerunian avatars, no glyph 
or symbol magics have any effect on Shaun 
dakul, except to attract his attention. He can 
hear any of his names spoken anywhere in 
Faerun, and the next nine words spoken by 
the speaker, along with the speaker's voice- 
likeness, distance, and direction (although 
he usually ignores the ceaseless babble this 
creates). He can send an audible reply of 
nine words or less to a speaker, on a wind of 
his own making. In one of his temples or 
shrines, there are no limits on his hearing or 
speech. The DM can freely modify and aug 
ment such minor powers to account for 
spectacular magical effects, physical feats, 
powers, and so on. 

Shaundakul manifests his displeasure with 
faithful by creating a wind wall in their path. 
He may aid faithful worshippers by creating 
moving wind walls to guard them in battle sit 
uations, or even turn a trapped worshipper 
into wraithform to allow escape. 

If PCs explore his temple, Shaundakul 
speaks to them (initially as a disembodied 
voice), explaining who and what he is. If PCs 
try to pillage or vandalize the temple, the 
windghosts who serve him (a new monster, 
detailed in this set) attack. If PCs are foolish 
enough to destroy one while still in the tem 
ple, Shaundakul appears and attacks, de 
manding a service from them in exchange 
for their lives. 

Shaundakul is eager to gain new worship 
pers, and tries to persuade any ranger, fight 
er, wizard or thief of any chaotic, neutral or 














good alignment to join his chosen. He does 
not demand that other gods be set aside by 
those faithful to him-but some other dei 
ties do not find shared worship acceptable. 

He can manifest anywhere in Faerun, and 
is attentive to the aid and needs of new wor 
shippers, to gain their loyalty. His avatar 
sometimes appears in Myth Drannor, strid 
ing to the rescue of otherwise doomed par 
ties beset by the Alhoon, the Phaerimm, or 
other perils of the ruins. If he saves PCs 


from certain death, he demands as a service 
that each one of them destroy or drive out 
of the city at least one baatezu, Alhoon, or 
Phaerimm. 

Shaundakul is lonely, and enjoys a good 
chat-especially if he can trade jokes. He 
knows about as much about Myth Drannor's 
history, the mythal, and the Alhoon and 
Phaerimm as this sourcebook presents, and 
if they ask about such things, tells PCs as 
much as the DM deems right. 

























. * 1 • _ w ' ~ 3C5 *-¦-' * * * "Hf~' . .^rr" ¦ -- 

NPCs op Mt/tte Droqdor 


Many strange and dangerous folk can be 
met with in or near the ruins of Myth 
Drannor. Most are adventurers or mages 
hoping to get what treasure they can; 
most are expecting trouble, and are ready 
to fight to the death. 

Here, a handful of such characters are 
presented for use in Myth Drannan en 
counters. Note that some of these folk 
may aid player characters instead of at 
tacking them. If the DM desires, these 
NPCs can be met with as the leaders of ad 
venturing bands they have joined, res 
cued, or met with in the ruins. 

Elsura Dauniir: female human, AL NG; 
AC 7 (6 in cat form); MV 12 (16 in cat 
form); W19; hp 49; THACO 14; #AT 1; Dmg 
by spell or weapon type; S 14, D 17, C 18,1 
18, W 17, Ch 16, ML 19. Age 37, height 6', 
weight 120 lbs., long black hair, gold- 
green eyes, sleek figure, can shapeshift in 
to cat form. 

Carries a necklace of missiles (2 4-die 
globes left), +1 dagger (enchantment on it 
makes it invisible to all but Elsura and be 
ings able to see invisible ), wand of magic 
missiles (19 charges left), 2 potions of 
extra-healing (in steel vials), and a teleport 
spell scroll (strapped to garter on thigh, 
under robes), and monetary treasure of 1- 
20 gp, 1-12 sp, 1-10 cp, and ld8 gems 
(DM's choice of type and value). 

According to many who travel the 
Sword Coast North, Elsura is "a sha- 
peshifting witch." She is said to be unpre 
dictable and whimsical, with a temper as 
black as her long, raven-dark hair when 
aroused. Elsura is known to hate slavers 
and those who hunt for sport and not the 
feast. She is also said to prowl the wilds 
often in the shape of a mincing black cat. 
When in this form, Elsura can be distin 
guished from feral common cats by her 


distinctive gold-green hued eyes. 

Born in Silvery moon, Elsura grew up in 
the company of elves and Harper folk, 
playing in the old, deep woods just north 
of the city walls. She was always adept at 
recognizing plants, and knowing where 
she was in the forest, and was never 
afraid of forest creatures or of wandering 
alone. 

While still a youth, Elsura met and be 
friended the old archmage Thsirin, and 
soon became his cook and constant com 
panion. Some in Silverymoon whispered 
that she was more to the kindly old mage 
than that, and efforts were made to con 
fine Elsura within the city walls and for 
bid her to see Iksirin. 

One night she vanished, and was not 
seen in any city for many a year, returning 
only at the death of her father, Aumar "the 
Lion" (a guardscaptain of Silverymoon 
famed for his battle-valor and reasoned 
leadership). At Aumar's funeral, Elsura, 
now a tall and mysterious beauty, ap 
peared as the tomb in cat-form. While still 
a cat, she cast a wall of stone spell to seal 
her father's resting-place. 

Alustriel, High Lady of Silverymoon, be 
friended Elsura at this time, and invited 
her to learn Art with mages of the Harp 
ers. The adventuress Sharanralee taught 
Elsura much of the trails and hiding- 
places of the northeastern wilderlands, 
but found her "a wild thing," moody and 
shy and very slow to trust. 

Elsura remains a friend to many Harp 
ers, and aids Harpers she meets, but is 
fiercely independent of any ruler, band, 
or authority. 

In cat form, Elsura is AC6, MV 16 (able 
to leap up to thirty feet), and can both 
speak and cast spells. She retains her own 
intelligence, but gains a better sense of 
smell, 90' infra vision, and ultravision. 













K 


m 

• •' 

i **r * 

1 

NPCs of Myth Dr annorz 

s 



- 

" - 


The origin of Elsura's feline shapeshift- 
ing ability is unknown. Elminster believes 
it to be the result of an ancient and power 
ful curse-spell, of a sort used in long-ago 
Netheril. 

Change from form to form requires 1 
segment, and never involves System 
Shock. Weapons, items, and clothing can 
not make the shift in form; Elsura custom 
arily wears only a waist-and-baldric pouch 
for material components, which magically 
shifts size to fit both her forms snugly. By 
touch and will she can make it invisible for 
up to 4 turns, or use telekinesis (by will, 
not requiring a spell) on it for up to 3 
rounds. Both such powers of the pouch 
can be utilized once every 9 turns. In the 
pouch Elsura typically carries material 
components, a pair of sandals, a pair of 
leather leggings, 1-20 gp, and the posses 
sions noted above. 

Trappers and hunters in the forests of 
the North often report meeting a black cat 
that sings or hums as it prowls. Most sa 
lute it and pass on, knowing they face 
Elsura. Those less wise-and such crea 
tures as kobolds and quicklings, who re 
gard the cat as a meal-soon learn 
wisdom, to their cost. 

Elsura has come to Myth Drannor hop 
ing to find enough powerful magic that 
she can by force found a stronghold, and 
build around her a refuge of folk devoted 
to her; more than anything else in the 
Realms, she seeks friends she can trust, 
and a home and family she can belong to. 

Baelam "the Bold": male human, AL 
CG; AC 6; MV 12; W12 (formerly T10; 
dual-class); hp 51; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 
2d4 metal hand, or by spell or weapon 
type; S 15, D 18, C 15, I 18, W 15, Ch 13, 
ML 19. Age 31, height 6'l", weight 207 
lbs., black hair, hazel eyes, burly build. 


Wears a ring of the ram and a vampiric 
ring of regeneration, carries a +3 dagger 
(when grasped and ordered, can blink for 
up to seven rounds, once every 200 turns), 
rope of entanglement , potion of healing 
(in a steel vial), and monetary treasure of 
2-20 gp, 1-12 ep, 3-30 sp, 2-20 cp, 60% 
chance of 1-10 gems (DM's choice of type 
and value). 

Baelam "the Bold" was once an infamous 
thief of the Sword Coast lands. He was 
very successful, and grew very rich- 
until, of course, he robbed the wrong per 
son. 

In Baelam's case, it was the mage Thron- 
thimm Blacksilver. Blacksilver's hoard in 
cluded many traps and guardian 
creatures, which Baelam adroitly avoided 
or destroyed. It also contained a chest that 
chopped off all hands entering it. Baelam 
lost his left hand, and barely escaped alive. 
Hurt and beset by the mage's guardian 
creatures, the thief dropped all his other 
loot to seize up a man-sized metal automa 
ton, and bore it away. 

The automaton soon came to animated 
life and nearly slew him, but Baelam used 
a precious item of magic to destroy its 
head and sever the still-deadly limbs of the 
wizard's strange metal golem. He then 
took the golem's still-moving left arm, and 
sought out the mage Irritym Wonderstar 
of Waterdeep. 

The process he demanded was long and 
difficult, and took most of Baelam's 
treasure-but when Irritym at last was 
done, Baelam had a dextrous, perfectly 
controlled metal left hand and wrist mat 
ed to his own flesh. 

The hand cannot be removed. It is con 
sidered a +2 magical weapon for pur 
poses of what it can hit, can be made to 
glow with blue or amber faerie fire as 
Baelam wills, is AC0, and has 66 hit points 


1|103 

















of its own (it takes that much damage be 
fore being hampered in any functions, 
and can fight on, animated by Baelam's 
will, even if severed from the wizard's 
body or upon his death or disintegration). 

The hand strikes for 2-8 points of dam 
age, and can handle extremes of heat and 
cold without impairment of function or 
discomfort on Baelam's part. Acid and 
electricity affect it. Baelam went through 
much pain during the grafting of the hand 
to his own flesh. Now, he cannot be ad 
versely affected in combat by severe pain 
or nausea. He has also given up thievery 
for study of the Art. Admiration of Irri 
tym's care and intelligent seeking after 
knowledge blossomed into an interest in 
magic-first for what it could do, and then 
for the Art itself. 

Irritym was later slain by thieves seek 
ing to plunder his house of magic. An en 
raged Baelam found and bloodily slew 
them, but lacked the Art necessary to 
bring Irritym back to life until it was too 
late. The grieving Baelam then sat down to 
learn all he could of Irritym's Art. 

For months he studied, learning little. 
Then he hid many of the mage's most pow 
erful grimoires somewhere beneath the 
city of Waterdeep, and began a careful 
program of trading away the lesser items 
and tomes he found in Irritym's home, in 
return for training at the hands of others. 
In between, Baelam roamed the Sword 
Coast cities slaying thieves known to him, 
and taking their stolen wealth to further 
finance his training. In the process he 
made many enemies, including the sorcer 
er Garthagul of Calimport, and the infa 
mous thief Ssilban "The Silent" of 
They marsh. 

In the end, a band of lesser thieves gath 
ered in Waterdeep to slay Baelam and 
seize Irritym's remaining treasure. One 


night, they swarmed into the mage's non 
descript house, armed to the teeth with 
magical protections and weapons. 

In an epic battle still told of in the tav 
erns of Waterdeep, Baelam slew them all. 
Much of Irritym's house was destroyed in 
the process-and Baelam's mastery of the 
Art was convincingly revealed, with all in 
the city that night as witnesses. 

When it was all over, Baelam strode 
through the smoking streets in the morn 
ing sunrise to Blackstaff Tbwer. There he 
gave what was left of Irritym's Art to 
Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun, apologized 
for the mess he had made (much of the re 
mains of his attackers were strewn about 
the streets and alleys around Irritym's 
house), and vanished from Waterdeep. 

Baelam wanders the Realms, aiding 
those he wishes to, and smiting thieves 
and evil mages alike, seizing their treasure 
for his own. The DM should use rare and 
unique spells extensively in determining 
Baelam's spells; he is said to use "strange 
magics" gleaned from his many sources. 
He has come to Myth Drannor seeking its 
lost, fabled magic. In battle, he is a deadly, 
wary foe-but he'd rather avoid fighting, 
if he gain magic by trading and sharing. 
He has been known to rescue adventurers 
from the clutches of baatezu and alhoon 
in the ruins, and has found an old book 
whose clues to the whereabouts of magic 
in the ruins he's eagerly following up. 

Baelam appears as a tall, broad- 
shouldered man with jet-black hair and a 
hooked nose. He is grim and black- 
humored, but can be both gentle and 
courteous if he so desires. 

Emrock Uerngulphim: male human, 
AL CN (kindly, whimsical); AC 6 (dexterity 
bonus; except for a helm and gauntlets, no 
armor worn); MV 12; Til; hp 61; THACO 


& 

l|l04| 












NPCs of Mc/tb Drzannorz 



15; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type +1 1-100 pp, 10-1000 gp, 2-20 ep, 5-50 sp, 2-20 

(strength bonus); SA telepathic link with cp ; 90% chance of gems (DM's choice of 

Vleem (see below), thieving skills: PP 45%, type and value), also many riches carried 

OL 70%, RT 85%, MS 90%, HS 50%, DN (see below). 

70%, CW 85%, RL 90%; S 16, D 18, C 16, I Emrock is skilled in the use of dagger, 

15, W 16, Ch 15, ML 20. Age 52, height scimitar, shortsword, dart, and garotte, at 
5'8", weight 169 lbs., steel-grey (formerly fighting in the dark and in the air, good 

brown) hair, hazel eyes, stout build. with knots and ropes, and seems always 

Wears a ring of spell turning and a vam- alert, 

piric ring of regeneration, carries a dag - He is known as "the Mad Merchant" in 

ger +2 (glows with a blue-white or red the Inner Sea lands of the Realms. (In the 

faerie fire when grasped and willed, hue South, he renders his name as "Imrock") 

of wielder's choice), potion of gaseous Formerly a thief, then a caravan-guard 

form, potion of extra-healing (in a steel vi- and later caravan-master, Emrock is a 

al) plus ld4 additional potions (DM's more honest man these days. He makes a 

choice of type) and monetary treasure of good living with a messenger and delivery 
























service across the North; having a secret 
lair somewhere in the Vast and another in 
the North; near Sundabar. Emrock deals 
only in relatively small items of high value; 
such as gems, unique items ; magical items, 
documents; sigils, letters and gift or pay 
ment parcels. 

Emrock is famous (or infamous) for his 
steed and companion: a gigantic, intelli 
gent mantari (see Volume 14 of the Mon 
strous Compendium) or aerial ray known 
as Vleem. Emrock and Vleem are partners 
and friends rather than man and servile 
beast. They communicate telepathically 
(90' range), although Vleem understands 
Common speech, and Emrock has learned 
to intepret the "veep" warning cry that 
Vleem emits, as well as his "chuckering" 
anger sound and his droning croon of 
pleasure or amusement. 

Other giant air-rays are known in the 
Realms, particularly in the jungles of 
Chult, but they are very rare. Vleem is of 
an even rarer variety: the "snow ray" or 
cold-blooded northern variety. Summer in 
the human-inhabited lands of the North is 
too warm for Vleem's liking, and the ray 
sleeps much of the time in deep, cold ca 
verns. In winter, the ray is often the only 
creature who can travel through bliz 
zards and sleet-storms, across icy wastes 
of water and leagues of deep snow. The 
high fees Emrock can command for safe 
delivery of valuables at such times keep 
him well-fed indeed. 

Emrock rides Vleem from a high-cantled 
saddle, to which are strapped long leather 
streamers of pouches. For large cargoes, 
Vleem has been known to tow a boat or 
sledge from just above ground- or water- 
level. 

Emrock encourages clients to protect 
precious cargoes with seals, magical 
glyphs, or mechanical traps; he won't try 


to open them. Emrock prefers to travel in 
bad weather or darkness, and seems to 
enjoy a good fight. Such tendencies, plus 
his droll, pranksome humor, have earned 
him his "Mad Merchant" nickname. 

Emrock was born in Mirabar, and spent 
his youth exploring the North with his 
parents, who were prospectors. Or 
phaned in an ore raid, Emrock wandered 
south and took to thievery, adopting the 
profession of caravan guard as a means of 
getting fed and paid to travel from place to 
place (to find new victims to steal from). 
Prudence often forced him to curtail his 
thievery, but Emrock kept his eyes open 
and learned the ways and the lay of many 
lands, from Calimshan to the borders of 
Thay, north to barbarian lands and 
endless ice from the steppes to the Sword 
Coast. 

In time he found himself the leader of a 
surviving remnant of a badly-mauled cara 
van, and decided to become a caravan- 
master in earnest. His thievery became 
more astute and his loot more valuable, 
and at length Emrock was forced to flee 
from some angry acquaintances who had 
more magic than he'd reckoned, even af 
ter he'd stolen much of it from them. They 
pursued him a long way, employing sum 
moned monsters and hired mercenaries, 
until Emrock went up into remote peaks 
to escape. There the pursuit ended, for his 
pursuers were certain that the ores would 
soon slay him. 

But there were no ores in those 
mountains-because snow rays love orc- 
flesh. Emrock met and somehow be 
friended Vleem. Perhaps the telepathy 
between them is natural, or perhaps the 
giant rays have magical powers of their 
own unsuspected by most. Whatever its 
origins, the teamwork between man and 
ray has lasted a good twenty-six seasons 













NPCs of IVk/tb Drqqoor 




now, and Emrock has hidden away much 
gold indeed (and not a few magical items, 
with which he pursues any who rob or in 
jure him and then escape). 

Emrock is a shrewd trader, an excellent 
gambler (a master at spotting all known 
forms of cheating) and bluffer, and is ex 
perienced in battle. Cool, dispassionate, 
and yet entertained by a good contest (be 
it mental, physical, or political), Emrock 
enjoys his career. 

Grey-bearded and paunchy, with white 
streaks now appearing in his wavy grey 
hair, Emrock is calm and genial. He wears 
a belt with a large round brass plate as a 
buckle: set into the body-side surface of 
the brass is a concealed lockpick and a flat 
metal vial containing a potion of extra 
healing. Emrock has friends and contacts 
across the North, and he has at least one 
lover: the widowed Jhaele Silvermane, 
innkeeper of The Old Skull Inn in Shadow- 
dale. 

He flies over Myth Drannor often, keep 
ing an eye on goings-on there, and has 
been known to swoop down and rescue 
adventurers in peril (especially lone wiz 
ards who can afford to pay him for their 
lives), or take messages to folk in the 
Dales, Cormyr, Hillsfar, or Sembia (some 
times for free). Though few know this, he 
is good friends with Azoun, Vangerdahast, 
and Alusair Nacacia of Cormyr, and is wel 
come in Suzail. 

Emrock has also been known to plunge 
headlong from the skies into battle with 
baatezu, gargoyles, and even Phaerimm 
amid the ruined towers of Myth Drannor, 
bellowing lustily and swinging his scimi 
tar. More than one despairing adventuring 
band has been astonished at the arrival of 
this rather unconventional rescuing caval 
ry! 


Vleem 

'Snow ray' variant great mantari; INT 14; 
AL LN; AC 4; MV 1, Fl 17 (C); HD 12; hp 92; 
THACO 9; #AT 2; Dmg 2d4 (bite), wing or 
tail buffet for 2d4 (or can ram, or can 
wield weapon with tail; SA ram (2-12 dam 
age plus save vs. death magic or be 
stunned for 1-2 rounds); SZ H (12' long 
with a 10' tail beyond, and a 26' wing 
span); ML 20. 

Vleem is neutral in alignment and large 
ly unaggressive; his kind rarely hunt or 
fight. He seems both fearless and stub 
born, and never abandons Emrock in dan 
gerous situations. He fights by dealing 
foes crushing damage from slaps of his 
wings or tail, or uses his stingless prehen 
sile tail to wield a weapon. He can so em 
ploy all weapons (including those of 
giants) for normal damage + 6, due to his 
great strength. 

Vleem eats organic matter of all types, 
living or dead. Often he munches on tree- 
top greenery or rock lichens of the high 
peaks, or wallows in battlefield carrion. 
Vleem is a mottled green, grey, and dun in 
color, has bony brow-ridges that protect 
his eyes, and a small, fanged mouth. 
Vleem glides, rippling or beating his body 
edges and tail when necessary for steering 
and propulsion. Buoyant internal gas cavi 
ties are believed to aid such rays in flight. 

Vleem's kind are very rare, and lair in 
ruins; he likes Myth Drannor as a poten 
tial home, and hopes to someday bring a 
mate here. 

Bucklal "Buttons" Boldover: male 
halfling, AL CE (manic, unpredictable, 
cruel); AC 6 (dexterity bonus; no armor 
worn); MV 12; T8; hp 61; THACO 15; #AT 
1; Dmg by weapon type +1 (strength bo 
nus); SA thieving skills: PP 85%, OL 60%, 
RT 25%, MS 90%, HS 90%, DN 20%, CW 




NPCs op IVk/th Dnannon 



50%, RL 5%; S 13, D 18, C 16, I 14, W 12, 
Ch 15, ML 20 (insane). Age 26, height 3'2", 
weight 66 lbs., black hair, green eyes, bur 
ly build. Wears a ring of jumping and a 
ring of shooting stars, and carries a ring of 
sustenance, a wand of magic missiles, a 
wand of negation, a horn of blasting, a 
wand of wonder, and a set of iron bands of 
Bilarro, all but the last plundered from the 
ruins, as well as unknown monetary trea 
sure (almost nothing carried, but has hid 
den small caches all over the ruins and in 
many places in the woods nearby). 

A sometimes-giggling, sometimes 
stealthily flitting crazed imp of the ruins, 
this halfling is the sole survivor of a band 


of his kind who came seeking easy riches. 
Forced to eat the remains of some of his 
fellows to survive, and to battle spiders as 
large as himself barehanded, something in 
Bucklal's brain snapped. Ever since, he has 
exulted in his rat-like existence in the ru 
ins, tormenting and stealing from adven 
turers, blasting small prey with his wands, 
and burying baatezu under falling rubble 
with well-placed blasts from his horn. 
Bucklal knows the passages and rooms of 
the city like no other living being, but he is 
too insane for others to control or read his 
thoughts with either magic or psionics; at 
tempts merely awaken his most murder 
ous attention. 






















Tbe Magic of Myth Droddor 




Much of the magic known in present-day 
Faerun has come down from the magical 
splendor and might of Myth Drannor at its 
height. A few of the thousands of magical 
items that still lie in its ruins are described 
here. 

In the entries; "XP Value" is experience 
gained by a being who makes (enchants) a 
magical item, not by one who merely comes 
to possess it. The ways of making most of 
these items have been lost down the ages. 
"GP Value" is a guide for DMs trying to de 
termine a typical market price for the item 
(to a buyer with a use ; interest or market for 
the item ; who does not sense that the sellers 
are desperate for cash). Keep these values 
secret from players; PCs in the Realms do 
not normally know the going market rate 
for any magical item. 

As well as the new magical items de 
scribed here (such as the masks devised by 
the well-loved Myth Drannan mage Lady 
Shandalee); almost all of the more widely 
known magical items (described in the 
DUNGEON MASTER(tm) Guide) were made in 
Myth Drannor. Some Myth Drannan speci 
mens of these well-known items, particular 
ly rings, can be overloaded, or use charges 
that can run out, whereas the more modern 
specimens most wizards in Faerun are used 
to, today, are permanent items that don't 
use charges. 

Dungeon Masters with access to the 
Realms sourcebook FR4, The Magister or to 
issue #115 of DRAGON(r) Magazine can in 
clude in play more harps of Myth Drannor 
than the two given here. Many other issues 
of DRAGON Magazine detail magical items 
that can be used as Myth Drannan trea 
sures. 


Staoes 

All of these items appear as plain wooden 
walking-staves, are usable only by all sorts 
of wizards (unless otherwise noted), and 
(with exceptions noted) are fairly numerous 
in Faerun. 

Staff of Battle 

XP Value: 1,000 GP Value: 9,000 

This sort of staff is a + 3 weapon that can 
not be cut by any blade. Its magical speed 
enables its bearer to strike first in any 
round, and it attracts all missiles (even mag 
ic missiles) passing within ten feet of any 
part of it. Such missiles avoid striking any 
living being, but enter the staff and are ab 
sorbed harmlessly. 

If a staff of battle's attack roll (adjusted 
with its bonus) is 20 or greater, any armed 
opponent that it strikes must make two suc 
cessful dexterity checks or be disarmed, his 
or her weapon flying out of immediate 
reach. 

The preceding functions are all automatic 
and continuous. They do not drain charges. 

A staff of battle can repel (as in the sixth- 
level wizard spell, repulsion) all creatures 
within ten feet. This power drains 2 charges 
per use, and can be exercised only once in 
every six-round period. The repulsion lasts 
only 2 rounds, after which affected crea 
tures are free to return. 

Once per day (144 turns), a staff-bearer 
can designate any successful hit to be a 
"Thunderstrike" The decision must be 
made immediately upon the staff striking 
home, and instantly drains 8 charges from 
the staff (insufficient charges prevent this 
option from occurring). A "Thunderstrike" 
is heard as a deep, booming noise. 

A "Thunderstrike" releases magical force 











sufficient to deal double damage to any op 
ponent of M-size or smaller (no saving 
throw), and triple damage to all larger crea 
tures. Any creature struck must make a suc 
cessful dexterity check to avoid being 
thrown to the ground, and also make a suc 
cessful strength check or be stunned (reel 
ing helplessly, at -3 AC, unable to attack, 
cast spells, or even concentrate, and liable 
to drop any held weapons or other objects 
unless a successful dexterity check is made 
for each) for 1-2 rounds. 

If used against non-living objects, a "Thun- 
derstrike" does forces any object struck (e.g. 
a door, sword, shield, armor, or even a castle 
wall) to save vs. crushing blow at -3, or be 
shattered. 

Staff of Displacement 

XP Value: 6,000 GP Value: 25,000 

This magical staff functions at all times as 
a cloak of displacement (q.v., DUNGEON 
MASTER m Guide) upon any being(s) touch 
ing it. This + 2 protection cannot be turned 
off, and drains no charges. 

The staff can also, on command (a silent 
act of will not requiring gesture or utter 
ance), enable a single creature grasping the 
staff to jump (as the first-level wizard spell). 
This function drains 1 charge, and may be 
activated as often as desired, once per 
round. 

The staff can also, by touch, part water in 
a five-foot-radius cylinder. This cylinder is 
centered on the staff, and extends four feet 
beyond either end of it, enabling beings to 
breathe air while submerged. Magical pro 
cesses replenish the air continuously to 
keep it fresh, and drain 1 charge per round 
from the staff while performing this func 
tion. This function requires the utterance of 
a secret command word to activate the staff; 
the function ceases upon mental command 


of any being grasping the staff, and may be 
used as often as desired. 

All staves of displacement can also tempo 
rarily negate (not destroy) wizard locks and 
hold portal magics, regardless of the level of 
the being who created them. The touch of 
the staff causes the guarded door or portal 
to glow with a faint radiance for ld4 
rounds, and during this time all creatures 
who wish to do so may pass freely through 
the guarded area. When this free passage 
ceases, any creatures caught passing 
through the guarded area may proceed, but 
must suffer a System Shock roll. This func 
tion operates automatically, whether pas 
sage is desired or not, and drains 1 charge 
per level of the caster of the hold or lock . 

Staff of Divergence 

XP Value: 1,000 GP Value: 9,500 

This sort of staff is a defensive weapon. 
Upon its crafting, this staff must be set to 
guard against one type of attack (typically 
"fire" or "lightning"). It is effective against 
only the chosen type of attacks, of both nat 
ural and magical origin, and regardless of 
intensity. 

Any attack of the chosen type directed 
within nine feet of any part of a staff of di 
vergence is automatically turned away, to a 
spot or target within 90' chosen by the staff- 
bearer. If no one is holding the staff, or the 
bearer does not choose a destination for the 
attack, determine where it takes effect ran 
domly. This function of the staff drains 3 
charges per use, and can be used only 6 
times in any 24-hour period. 

Divergence is effective against spells and 
magical item discharges employing the at 
tack form guarded against, but it cannot 
guard against "all spells" or "all poisons." It 
could be crafted to ward off "all acids," but 
all flaming attacks and all electrical/energy 


110 













discharge attacks are by far the most com 
mon attack types guarded against by such 
staves. 

A staff of divergence has an additional 
power, usable at will and requiring no 
charges. It can emit a faerie fire radiance of 
any hue desired. The staff must be held to 
change the intensity and color of the radi 
ance, or to end it. These processes require 
concentration that precludes spellcasting, 
but can be accomplished within a round. 

Staff °f MiRacles 

XP Value: 4,000 GP Value: 32,000 

These staves were once common, being 
made in great numbers in Myth Drannor 
and elsewhere, but few know the secrets of 
their crafting today. When grasped and 
commanded, such a staff glows with a brief 
blue-white radiance, and allows a + 4 bonus 
on saving throws for all beings touching it at 
the time. This protection lasts for the round 
in which the staff is touched and the follow 
ing round, and drains the staff of 4 charges 
each time it is activated. 

A staff of miracles may heal (as the sixth- 
level priest spell) once every 24 hours, a 
function that drains 5 charges. 

It may also be used to delay death once 
every 24 hours. This function, which drains 
6 charges, permits a dead being, if touched 
within 3 rounds of death, to be brought to 1 
hp, despite any wounds, system shock roll 
failures, or bodily dismemberments (even 
decapitation or the loss of vital organs). 
Breathing, bleeding, and all life functions 
are magically halted for 7 turns, and if cura 
tive magic or other means are applied to the 
unfortunate being during this time, actual 
death may be averted. A system shock roll 
may apply if the DM judges it appropriate. 

Once every 66 days, a staff of miracles al 
lows the bearer one limited wish , at a cost of 


12 charges. (Insufficient charges cause fail 
ure of function.) When this function is used, 
a roll of thunder is heard overhead. The 
staff-bearer is not aged by use of this power 
of the staff. 

The limited wish is akin to the seventh- 
level wizard spell. If death is involved, it can 
not be directly caused by the spell, and can 
only be undone or reversed for one crea 
ture. If the wish involves the undoing of 
acts, spells cast, words said, et cetera, it can 
only reach back into the immediate past for 
a maximum of one turn. 

Staff of Nigbt 

XP Value: 3,000 GP Value: 15,500 

A staff of night is not (despite folk beliefs 
to the contrary) an evil item; like all the 
staves detailed herein, it has no alignment. 
Anyone grasping this staff is automatically 
afforded both infravision (to a range of 90') 
and ultravision. By wordless mental com 
mand (and at a cost of 1 charge) this staff 
can dispel any radiance {light, continual 
light, faerie fire , but not magical auras that 
glow) that the staff contacts any part of. Per 
manent radiances return 2-5 turns after this 
function is exercised. 

The bearer of a staff of night can also 
cause darkness , in a sphere of ten-foot- 
radius centered on the midpoint of the staff. 
Such darkness is equal in effects to that cre 
ated by the second-level wizard spell dark 
ness 15' radius, and moves with the staff. 
This function costs 1 charge per use, and 
can be ended by mental command of the 
bearer, or continued indefinitely, even if the 
staff is no longer in contact with a living be 
ing. 

Once every seven days, the greatest 
power of a staff of night may be used. The 
bearer of the staff feels (by a faint, continu 
ous tingling) that this power is ready for 


1 111 

















W±MM 


use. A command word must be spoken to ac 
tivate this power, and doing so drains 6 
charges from the staff, each time. Within 1 
round, an umber hulk appears. It fights or 
otherwise performs at the staff-bearer's bid 
ding for 3 rounds, and then vanishes again. 

The umber hulk always arrives with 60 or 
more hit points and obeys diligently and loy 
ally in undertaking even obviously danger 
ous tasks (however, if directly asked to harm 
itself it does nothing). While the staff is 
grasped, its bearer is immune to the confu 
sion power of the gaze of all umber hulks. If 
the umber hulk of the staff is slain while in 
service to the staff-bearer, the staff will in 
stantly crumble to dust, its power gone for 
ever. 

Lord Aumry of Shadowdale (husband of 
the "witch'' Sylune) once bore such a staff. It 
was stolen from his tomb by Lashan of Scar- 
dale, who is thought to still be alive, in hid 
ing, and may well still possess it. 

Staff of Scniaening 

XP Value: 3,000 GP Value: 14,000 

One end of a staff of scrivening can erase 
(as in the first-level wizard spell). The other 
end can animate itself to write down spells 
and glyphs (even those for which special 
inks are normally required), and transfer a 
written spell of any level and type (even a 
spell forever denied to the staff-bearer for 
reasons of class) from the original text 
(which must be touched) to another surface, 
such as a blank page of the staff-bearer's 
spellbook. 

The erase function is by touch, drains 2 
charges, and works instantly. The write 
function takes 4 rounds. In the first, the 
original text must be touched; in the second, 
the staff must be moved to the surface to be 
written upon; in the third and fourth, the 
staff must be continuously touched to the 


surface to be written upon. One charge per 
round is drained, and if the process is inter 
rupted, the charges used thus far are lost, 
and the attempt to write the spell fails. 

Writing requires no special spell inks or 
movements of the staff, nor even adequate 
light, and is always an exact duplicate of the 
original (faults, if any, and all). A spell con 
cealed by a secret page magic cannot be 
written by use of this sort of staff, but the 
staff can be employed to copy a secret page 
spell itself. 

At a cost of 1 charge per round, the bearer 
of a staff of scrivening can read magic (as 
the first-level wizard spell, but without ex 
pending such a spell). Note that this power 
does not reveal the auras of magical 
dweomers, or identify, activate, or reveal 
glyphs or symbols. 

Anyone touching a staff of scrivening 
when a glyph or symbol is discharged is au 
tomatically protected against all effects of 
the glyph or symbol. This protection drains 
6 charges per being protected. 

All staff functions are activated by silent 
force of will, and require physical contact 
with the staff and concentration that pre 
cludes spellcasting. 

Sta^ of Silence 

XP Value: 1,500 GP Value: 6,000 

A staff of silence drains 1 charge per 
round when activated. It can be used contin 
uously if desired, as long as the activator re 
tains hold of the staff. Activation and 
de-activation is by silent act of will, and 
takes only an instant. 

This type of staff negates all noises cre 
ated by the bearer, including footfalls, spell 
incantations, the sounds made by things the 
bearer breaks by direct contact (not drop 
ping!), and so on. 

The bearer may also invoke a special sort 


1|112 













of deafness upon himself to provide total 
protection against power word spells, and 
other spells or monster attacks which rely 
on sound (e.g. the roar of an androsphinx or 
the song of a harpy). This deafness also pre 
vents real deafness being inflicted upon the 
staff-bearer (except by physical damage of 
auditory organs). Other creatures, even if 
they touch the staff, are not protected by 
the staff in any way. 

Once per day (once in every 144 turns), 
the bearer of a staff of silence can release 
the sounds swallowed (and stored) by the 
staff in a sonic blast attack. This attack has a 
cone-shaped area of effect, extending from 
one end of the staff up to sixty feet distant, 
widening from a foot in width at the tip of 
the staff to a thirty-foot diameter circle at 
the farthest extent of the cone. It is activated 
by will, and occurs instantly, its effects ceas 
ing at the end of the round of activation. 

The blast sounds like an extremely high- 
pitched shriek, but does not affect creatures 
only by sound. It can cause deafness (lasting 
2-5 turns) and stun (lasting 1-6 rounds) all 
creatures in the area of effect able to hear 
(i.e. not already deaf) who fail a saving 
throw against each effect. Both saving 
throws are against poison. 

The sonic blast also deals physical damage 
to living and non-living objects, equal to 1 
structural point or 2dl2 damage (successful 
save vs. spell equals half damage). Any small 
object may at the DM's option be flung away 
from the staff by the blast. Any creature 
who fails a dexterity check may be hurled 
off its feet and thrown up to ten feet farther 
away from the staff. 

There is no known overload point for 
such staves. A staff of silence has never ex 
ploded or ceased to function because its 
stored sounds were not discharged. Activa 
tion of a sonic blast drains only one charge; 
the blast itself is powered by the sound en 
ergy stored by the staff. 


Staff of: SpheRes 

XP Value: 4,000 GP Value: 20,000 

This rare and strange sort of staff was de 
vised by Elminster long ago, when he was in 
Myth Drannor at the height of its greatness. 
All it does is create spheres: transparent, 
floating bubbles that glow with a faint 
silver-blue radiance. These bubbles are six 
feet in diameter, and upon their creation 
can be commanded to remain stationary 
(floating, motionless), commanded to follow 
or precede the staff at a certain distance, 
height, and orientation, or set upon a 
straight-line journey away from the staff- 
wielder, in any direction. 

A bubble can carry anything or collection 
of things of up to 140 lbs. total weight (if this 
limit is exceeded, the bubble instantly 
ceases to exist), including living matter. Any 
pointed or sharp-bladed objects allowed to 
contact the surface of such a bubble also de 
stroys it. A bubble gives enough light to read 
by, but not enough to blind any creature or 
affect undead. 

If cast around a being (or beings), a sphere 
allows the enclosed creatures clear vision 
and breathing, and protects them with a 
feather fall if it is directed downwards, or 
ceases to exist in a location that spills its oc 
cupants out for a fall (if the bubble fails due 
to weight overload, this protection does not 
apply). A spell or magical item or artifact 
power of any sort cast into or out of a 
sphere is negated, but destroys the sphere. 
If a sphere fails due to such contact, it ne 
gates any magic (including spell-like crea 
ture powers) entering or leaving its area in 
that round, not just one spell or effect. 

Spheres are not prisons; any conscious, 
mobile being can easily break a sphere to es 
cape (securely bound creatures cannot, nor 
can caged creatures, if the sphere is formed 
around their cage). Mages typically use such 












The Magic of Myth Drqddor 




spheres as travelling storage for coins ; food, 
weapons, or even open spellbooks, which 
the sphere provides handy reading light for. 
Spheres can also be used to convey food, 
treasure, or other items to beings one 
doesn't wish to approach too closely. 

A sphere can travel at up to 16"/round 
when travelling "free" (that is, not linked to 
the location of the staff that formed it), but 
can never develop sufficient velocity to 
break or move objects in its path, nor to de 
liver a carried dagger or acid vial in an at 
tack. Spheres can serve to deliver lit oil pots 
or torches to intended destinations (non- 
magical flame does not affect a sphere). 

Such a staff can create a maximum of one 
sphere a round. Each sphere drains 1 
charge during its creation, which requires 
an entire round to complete. 

Stapp op SaRpRi'ses 

XP Value: 4,000 GP Value: 20,000 

This type of staff is usable by all intelligent 
creatures who know the command words of 
the particular specimen they are holding. 
Each staff function can be used in combina 
tion with all other staff functions, but only 
one function can be activated (or deactivated, 
by uttering the command word in reverse) 
per round. Each function drains 1 charge 
whenever activated, but programming item 
functions requires only the necessary 
spellcasting, speech, and concentration; no 
charges are drained. 

A staff of surprises can on command sud 
denly grow a blade from whatever end is 
desired (doing Id8 damage, ldl2 to crea 
tures larger than M-sized, whenever the 
staff hits). The staffs weight and balance do 
not change. 

Such a staff can also suddenly extend in 
length up to sixty feet, to serve as a pike, 
sliding pole, bridging or reaching aid, and so 


on. It remains utterly straight and rigid, and 
can withstand 16 points of direct damage or 
777 lbs. of weight before breaking. 

A staff of surprises can also emit an earli 
er programmed sound or speech (of up to 7 
seconds duration or 15 spoken words). This 
utterance can be a message, warning, incan 
tation, threat, or an intent to deceive others 
into thinking a particular being or monster 
is near. If the sound is a spell incantation, no 
spell can be cast or set off, but the sound can 
be an activation word for a magical item, 
and activates that item if the word alone is 
sufficient. 

A staff of surprises can also emit an earli 
er programmed illusory image, of any M- 
sized creature or object. The wizard must 
first create an illusion through use of illu 
sion magic, then speak the image-power 
command word to cause the staff to absorb 
the illusion and contain it for later use. The 
illusion is as good as the original (i.e, ranging 
from vague and fuzzy to utterly lifelike), 
and can move, gesture, and act. It cannot 
speak, be made to react to its surroundings 
in any way, and lasts for up to 7 rounds (less 
if the programmer desires or is unable to 
maintain the illusion for 7 rounds, or if the 
staff-wielder ends it sooner). Tbuch does not 
dispel or disrupt such an image. 

Staff of Vision 

XP Value: 5,000 GP Value: 25,000 

This rare type of staff drains 1 charge per 
round when activated and held by a living 
creature. It is usable by all intelligent .crea 
tures, and is controlled by force of will. 

A staff of vision may be activated and used 
within the same round. Shutting down any 
power of the staff requires only an instant, 
but switching from one power to another 
requires an entire round between uses of 
the different powers. 













Such a staff can empower the bearer or 
any creature touching the staff (but only 
one being at a time) to detect invisibility (as 
the second-level wizard spell, with an effec 
tive range of 90'), or use infravision (as the 
third-level wizard spell), or have true seeing 
(as the sixth-level wizard spell, without any 
use of ointment necessary). 

Such staves never allow X-ray vision, and 
cannot be used continuously for very long, 
as their effects are mentally tiring. A staff of 
vision can be used by one being only for as 
many rounds as the user has intelligence 
points. After using such a staff for 6 rounds 
or more, any user must refrain from using it 
for at least 4 rounds, or wild hallucinations 
result (precluding proper use of the staff 
powers, and possibly guiding the affected 
being into behavior dangerous to self or 
companions). 

Each staff of vision has a secret command 
word. Anyone knowing it who utters it 
while touching the staff to any being (includ 
ing themselves) may call forth the special 
power of this type of staff: at a cost of 3 
charges, such a staff can cure blindness (un 
like the third-level priest spell, the staff re 
pairs or restores damaged eyes). Insufficient 
charges cause this special power to fail. 

Miscellaneocts 

Magic 

Gauntlets of the 
ValoRoas 

XP Value: 10,000 GP Value: 45,000 

Made for the heroes of Myth Drannor, 
these magical gloves vary in appearance 
from massive silvery elbow-length war- 
gauntlets to delicate open versions consist 
ing of five knuckle-rings linked to a 


wrist-bracelets by fine chains, along which 
can be found various ornaments (sometimes 
including storage lockets for powders, 
scent, gems, or coins). 

If a single gauntlet is worn, the wearer 
can punch with it in battle for ld4 +1 dam 
age, making all attack rolls at + 3 to hit. It is 
supple enough to permit the wearer to cast 
spells while wearing it, and causes all the 
wearer's spells to have the maximum possi 
ble effects (overriding all magic-affecting 
powers of the mythal, but not any victim 
saving throws). The wearer also gains a +1 
bonus on all saving throws. 

If any two gauntlets of the valorous are 
worn, the pair together has all the powers 
and properties a single gauntlet does, plus 
ld3 of the following powers (determine ran 
domly with a dl2 roll; these powers are 
mentally revealed to the wearer once both 
gloves are donned, and are not changeable). 
01: regenerate (as the seventh-level priest 
spell) by gauntlet-touch, twice/day. 

02: resurrection (as the seventh-level priest 
spell, cast by a 20th-level priest) by gauntlet- 
touch, once/day. 

03: chain lightning (as the sixth-level wizard 
spell, first arc of bolt dealing 12d6 damage) 
from pointed gauntlet, thrice/day.04: stone 
to flesh or its reverse (as the sixth-level wiz 
ard spell) of up to 180 cubic feet in total vol 
ume, by gauntlet- touch, once/day (i.e. one 
act of either flesh to stone or stone to flesh, 
not once each). 

05: telekinesis as the fifth-level wizard 
spell-the single-round version that hurls 
objects away-as if cast by a 12th-level wiz 
ard: i.e. objects of up to 300 lbs. total can be 
hurled, suffering 12 hit points of damage if 
they strike solid things in their flight), affect 
ing objects and beings touched by a gauntlet 
within a single round. Multiple objects can 
be touched and willed to fly away, and this 
goes on until the weight limit is exceeded. 
The object that is "over" won't be affected. 













The Magic op M"/th Drqddor 




This power is usable twice/day. 

06: four times per day, the wearer of the 
gauntlet can unleash a power blow when a 
successful attack is landed: the attack does 
its usual damage, plus 3d6 points of smiting 
damage (and the victim must save vs. spell 
or be knocked down, its hold on weapons, 
ladders, railings, captives, masts, and the 
like automatically broken). 

07: either one of the gauntlets can emit a 
flame blade (as the second-level priest spell, 
dealing ld4+4 points of damage plus 2 
more if the victim is undead or especially 
vulnerable to fire, and - 2 if it is protected 
against fire); this power can be evoked a to 
tal of twice per day, regardless of which 
glove is used. 

08: by touch, a gauntlet can heal (as the 
sixth-level priest spell), once/day. 

09: each gauntlet can emit repulsion as the 
sixth-level wizard spell) once/day: undead 
caught in this special repulsion effect must 
save vs. spell at -2 or boil away, suffering 
2d4 points of damage to their unlife. 

10: a gauntlet can polymorph other (as the 
fourth-level wizard spell) once/day, by 
touch; victim is allowed normal saving 
throw, and is not required to make a system 
shock survival roll for the transformation 
(but unless naturally a shapeshifting crea 
ture, any later change back to normal form 
involves a system shock survival roll). 

11: a gauntlet can hold monster once/day, by 
touch (as the fifth-level wizard spell, but on 
ly one creature can be affected-it gets its 
usual save vs. spell at - 3 to escape the spell 
effects). 

12: both gauntlets can, upon command, emit 
electrical discharges that they conduct di 
rectly to foes with punch attacks, or that is 
added to the damage done by any weapon 
wielded by either gauntlet; the damage 
done is 2d4 points of extra; this power can 
be used once/turn, and last one round each 
time-but can affect both gauntlets if de 


sired, so that a high-level fighter employing 
two weapons, one in either hand, during the 
same round would gain 2d4 extra damage 
on both (weapons and struck items normal 
ly requiring an item saving throw vs. light 
ning are forced to make such throws, so 
that the gauntlet wearer can easily destroy 
his own weapon unintentionally). 

When a matched pair of gauntlets of the 
valorous is used in a certain way (e.g. to 
swing a magical sword) or to do a certain 
thing (e.g. to slay a baatezu or a dragon), 
they attain fulfillment This purpose, set 
when they were created, is rarely known to 
the wearer, and cannot be divined by magi 
cal means. 

Upon fulfillment, the gloves blaze with 
light and vanish, healing their wearer, and 
removing from him all afflictions as an elixir 
of health (detailed in the DMG) does. Their 
wearer also gains ld4 permanent hit points, 
a 1-point gain on any ability score (randomly 
chosen, not player's choice), and another 
permanent ability (choose randomly from 
the following table, rolling ld8 and re 
rolling if it's an ability the being already pos 
sesses): 

01. infravision (as the spell), whenever con 
centrated on. 

02. being gains +40% to base success rate 
for climbing (see pg. 122 of the Player's 
Handbook ). 

03. being gains a bonus of +1 on all attack 
rolls with a particular type of weapon (e.g. 
long sword, but not a broader category such 
as "sword"). 

04. being gains a 40% chance to notice traps 
(as a thief finds traps), even when not con 
centrating (a being already having this abili 
ty gains a +40% bonus). 

05. being gains the same chances to detect 
depth and grade as a dwarf has (see page 21 
of the Player's Handbook; note that the 
dwarven miners' aptitudes for detecting 












The Magic op Myth OnannoR 

, ¦ m l l ' r~ : ¦•:.••*••• i MSM 


new construction, sliding or shifting areas, 
or traps are not gained). 

06. being gains a base chance of 40% to 
move silently (as a thief; a being already hav 
ing this ability gains a +40% bonus). 

07. being gains the ability to dimension door 
(as a 7th-level wizard does, but without any 
spell). 

08. being can pass without trace once/day 
(as the first-level priest spell-but no magi 
cal trail is left). 

Note that these fulfillment benefits are 
permanent, and do not depend on align 
ment, behavior, presence of the mythal or 
proximity to where the gloves vanished. 

The Hooded Croooo 

XP Value; 5,000 GP Value; 30,000 

This item is either rare or unique. It is a 
gem-encrusted crown or diadem with beje- 
weled "skirts" or a hood of cloth that sur 
rounds the back and sides of the wearer's 
head. The crown's jewels wink and sparkle 
constantly, but this is an illusion; it is actu 
ally a plain adamantine circlet, devoid of 
skirts and gems. It has two sorts of powers: 
those that always function, and those that 
operate only while the crown is within, or in 
contact with, the mythal (the crown can di 
rect its powers up to 90' outside of the my 
thal). 

The first sort of powers are: the wearer 
has immunity to all petrification, 
polymorph, and electrical or lightning at 
tacks and effects; can levitate or feather fall 
at will; and can cast the following spells (as a 
9th-level wizard); color spray, magic missile, 
unseen servant!detect invisibility, ESP, know 
alignment, locate objectlminute meteor (like 
a Melf's minute meteors spell, but creates 
only 1 meteor per use, counting as the 
crown's spellcasting for the round), non 


detection, tongues, water breathing!minor 
creation, remove curse! wall of iron. 

The crown can cast only 1 spell per round 
(and once any spell is used, it can't be called 
on again until 3 turns have elasped), but the 
levitation and feather falling powers, and 
the immunities can be used at the same time 
as a spell. Use of crown powers in a round 
prevents the wearer from casting any spells 
of his own (if he is a spellcaster), but not 
from unleashing magical item discharges or 
combat. 

The second sort of crown powers operate 
in the mythal, and consist of the following: 
the wearer can fly at will, can cast (as a 14th- 
level wizard) repulsion, delayed blast fire 
ball and teleport without error once/day, 
and can use all crown powers, personal 
spells, and wielded magical item powers en 
tirely free of the mythal's wild effects (i.e. all 
have normal effects). 

If a wearer is brought to 6 or fewer hit 
points, his or her hooded crown will dimen 
sion door by itself, in a random direction 
and distance (up to a limit of 700'), to halt 
levitating roughly six feet above any surface 
there. It reflects all magic cast at it 100% 
back at the source, and defy all psionics, un 
til touched again by a living being. Other 
wise, its powers only work when it is on the 
head of a living being. 














Hemps 

Many harps were devised by elven, half* 
elven, and human craftsfolk in long-ago 
Myth Drannor. They are small and triangu 
lar, with curving fore-pillars and 20 to 36 
copper, brass, or electrum strings. Their 
resonance and close-spaced strings require 
that a harpist be very skilled to get pleasant 
music out of one-but a being of any race or 
alignment able to touch their strings can call 
forth their magical powers (which survive 
re-stringing, but not breakage of the harp- 
frame). 

TWo of the nine known sorts of surviving 
Myth Drannan harps are detailed here. 

Dove's Harp 

XP Value: 500 GP Value: 2,500 

This harp has gained its current name be 
cause Dove Falconhand of The Knights of 
Myth Drannor owns one (its earlier name is 
lost). While it is playing, beings within 20' 
are temporarily freed from any insanity af 
flicting them, and are instantly and perma 
nently freed from fear, despair ; discord, 
rage, terror, and hopelessness of any sort. 
The harp music also lightens black moods 
and grief, and calms fretting and anger. 

The music of Dove's harp also cures light 
wounds (ld8 hit points) once in any being 
within 20' who listens to it for 2 successive 
rounds. This curing works only once every 
9 days for a particular being. While such a 
harp is aiding any being, the harp and harp 
ist radiate a faint white nimbus or faerie 
fire. 

Valarde's Harp 

XP Value: 1,000 GP Value: 6,000 

The player of this harp can cause either of 


two effects (identical to the third-level wiz 
ard spells) to occur at the end of a complete 
round of playing: a gust of wind moving out 
wards from the end of the harp's base, or a 
wind wall of 20' square, lasting for 3 rounds 
(or less, if the harpist's will ends it). Tiny 
points of radiance appear, flicker, dance, 
and wink out along the strings of this harp, 
and around the brow or head of the harpist, 
while this harp's strings are in motion. 

Masks 

The magical masks of Myth Drannor were 
almost all devised by Shandalee, the Lady of 
the Stars, an archmagistress of power and 
grace. They are buried in many tombs 
throughout the Realms, and are usable by 
all creatures able to wear them about the 
eyes, and can be distinguished from each 
other only by shape and ornamentation: all 
are of some silky-grey fabric whose making 
is now lost. 

Weapons and claws pass through this 
cloth as if it does not exist (not harming it), 
and it cannot be burned or harmed by cold, 
acid, water. Electrical energies can destroy a 
mask by dealing it more than its hp 
(20 + ldl2). Mask powers may be over 
matched by superior magic, or negated for 
ld6 rounds by dispel magic or for 2d6 
rounds by the touch of a beam from a wand 
of negation , but are never altered in scope 
or power by circumstances or magic. A 
mask either works fully or not at all (it can 
not ' lose power," or be "damaged but not de 
stroyed"). 

A Myth Drannan magical mask radiates a 
faint dweomer, and shifts in size to cover a 
face from nostrils to brow and ear to ear, 
leaving the eyes uncovered, when placed on 
the face. It clings without need of ties or ad 
justment, until torn away (at the grasp and 
pull of bare flesh, it readily peels away, re 
gardless of the wearer's wishes). 


1118 ft 
EC 














The types of masks discovered thus far 
are as follows. 

Fanged Mask 

XP Value: 250 GP Value: 500 

The bottom of this mask is cut in the shape 
of downward-pointing fangs or teeth, like 
those of a great cat. When worn, the wearer 
can bite in combat for ld4 points of damage 
(if the wearer's natural bite does apprecia 
ble damage-i.e. the wearer is not human- 
the mask's damage is added to the usual 
damage dealt). The mask allows the wearer 
to bite even astral, and ethereal targets, as 
well as creatures normally struck only by 
magical weapons (including beings from 
other planes). The bite stuns (saving throw 
vs. spell negates) a victim for the round fol 
lowing a successful bite. 

Such a mask does not augment any blood 
draining abilities the wearer may already 
possess, and (contrary to popular belief) 
does not allow the wearer to drain blood 
from victims. Bite attacks must be delivered 
by direct contact with victims-and the 
mask does not protect the wearer in any 
way from the attacks and abilities of victims. 

Horned Mask 

XP Value: 250 GP Value: 2,500 

So-called because it sports two horns 
curving up from its upper outer edges, this 
mask allows the wearer 90'-range infra 
vision and the ability to clearly see ethereal 
creatures, the undead known as shadows, 
and all creatures seeking to hide in 
shadows. The wearer can see through 
flames, mist, fog, smoke, and other opaque 
vapors or conflagrations (through the eyes 
of the mask, these view-barriers appear on 
ly as faint outlines or disturbances). 



The wearer cannot be blinded, dazzled, 
charmed, hypnotized or stunned by magic 
or very intense light displays. The wearer is 
also enabled to track as a lst-level ranger (if 
already able to do so, tracking abilities re 
ceive a +1 bonus). 

The mask's protections can't be extended 
to other creatures, and its wearer cannot 
see invisible creatures, or detect illusions or 
disguises. 

Mask of Magic 

XP Value: 200 GP Value: 400 

This sort of mask is always perfectly cir 
cular. While it is worn, the wearer has con 
tinual, involuntary magical sight: magical 
dweomers and auras emit a clear glow. 

The intensity of the radiance gives clues as 
to how recent or powerful the magic is, but 
the mask's sight otherwise only reveals the 


119b 














location and precise outline of magical ob 
jects (even surfaces or areas bearing sym 
bols, glyphs, and the like). The mask does 
not allow its wearer to read magic. 

Mask of Silence 

XP Value: 300 GP Value: 1,000 

This mask has a trailing veil that flows 
down to cover a wearer's mouth, moving by 
itself to always cover the lips (thus, it must 
be removed for the wearer to eat or drink). 

By will, every fourth round of continuous 
wear, the wearer can magically silence one 
being within 50 yards per round. This si 
lence lasts one round, and the target gets a 
save vs. breath weapon to escape the effect. 

If the save is successful, the target is unaf 
fected, but the mask's power has still been 
used, and the wearer can't try to use the si 
lence power again until three intervening 
rounds of mask wearing have elapsed. 

If the save fails, the silence prevents all 
noise from the victim (movements and 
sounds caused by body weight or actions, 
not just speech, shouts, and spellcasting). 
The mask-wearer can use silence on him 
self, but must make a saving throw against 
the mask's magic regardless of his wishes. 

Mask of Winds 

XP Value: 350 GP Value: 700 

This mask is shaped like a point- 
down wards, vertical bellows. It allows the 
wearer to influence the movements of gases 
and vapors within 60', by silent act of will. 
Once every 6 rounds, wind can be woven 
strongly enough to create the equivalent of 
a gust of wind or wall of wind spell. The 
mask's power is strong enough to break up 
such spells, when used against the mask- 
wearer, and the mask can also turn aside 
gale-force winds, smoke, convection cur 


rents, poisonous gas, beings in gaseous 
form, and scent-laden breezes. Temperature 
effects that are due to air movement (for ex 
ample, hypothermia caused by winter 
winds) can be lessened or avoided, and fires 
can be dampened (but only small ones put 
out) by use of the mask: it cannot steal 
enough oxygen to asphyxiate beings or 
cause a vacuum. 

Mirror Mask 

XP Value: 300 GP Value: 800 

This mask takes the form of a circle with 
two eyeholes, covered with dark lines radi 
ating outwards from a focal point at the 
wearer's nose. Anyone gazing directly at the 
wearer does not see the mask or the head 
that is wearing it, but instead sees their own 
head, looking at them! (Beings not looking 
directly at the mask see it.) 

The mask reflects all gaze attacks back 
with full force, and its wearer can meet the 
eyes of any creature without being affected 
by awe, fear, charms, suggestions, hypnotic 
effects, or the like. 

Skull Mask 

XP Value: 500 GP Value: 1,000 

This mask covers the entire face, and 
transforms it while worn to resemble a 
skull: the teeth and gums are bared, and 
dark sockets appear around the eyes and 
nose. The wearer of the mask is immune to 
fear, all diseases, and paralysis, and can in 
stantly recognize any beings seen as dead, 
undead, alive (including petrified or in sus 
pended animation), or never living (i.e. even 
the most lifelike stone statue can be distin 
guished from someone using magic to ap 
pear as a stone statue). 

Undead are drawn to such a mask, attack- 




120b] 














Tbe Magic of Mytb Drqddor 



ing its wearer in preference to all other 
creatures. The mask gives its wearer immu 
nity to undead chilling, life energy-draining, 
aging, and strength draining undead 
attacks-but not to poisonous or purely 
physical attacks. It does not give the wearer 
any control or influence over undead. 

Veil-Mask 

XP Value: 500 GP Value: 5,000 

Named for its appearance and its func 
tion, this mask covers its wearer's face in an 
impassive expanse, leaving only the eyes to 
convey any expression. When worn, it com 
pletely hides and protects the wearer from 
charm, sleep, ESP and similar mind-reading 
and influencing psionic abilities and magical 
spells. Offensive attacks of both sorts are re 
flected back at the source, for full damage (if 
this is impossible due to the nature of the at 
tack, it is merely negated). 

It also foils any divination spells involving 
the wearer (such as detect lie, alignment au 
ra reading, and the like), but doesn't confer 
actual or psionic invisibility on the wearer. 

Winged Mask 

XP Value: 750 GP Value: 7,500 

The edges of this mask are cut to resemble 
rows of feathers. The wearer can fly at will, 
without tiring, as often and as far as de 
sired, at MV Fl 26 (A). The mask wearer can 
cast spells in flight (and write or perform 
other intricate tasks), fly upright, hover or 
stop in midair, or back up without turning- 
but always glows with a soft white faerie 
fire while in flight (regardless of his wishes). 

Up to 50 lbs. of non-living material can be 
carried (the weight of the mask itself is not 
considered, but all other clothing and items 
on the wearer's person are, and if the 


weight limit is exceeded, random items in 
excess of the limit are left behind in flight, 
regardless of physical ties, packaging, or 
connections). 

The mask's magic never carries more than 
one living being in flight, no matter how 
small or light the entities involved are. If an 
other creature touches, grapples with, or is 
carried by the flying wearer of a winged 
mask, the wearer falls (30' per round: the 
mask protects its wearer with a feather fall, 
but a second being won't be protected, even 
if clinging to the mask-wearer's back). 

Magical Weapons 

Foebaoe 

XP Value: 7,000 GP Value: 35,000 

This is the legendary blade borne by Fflar, 
Captain of Myth Drannor. It lies somewhere 
in the rubble of Myth Drannor's streets, and 
is active (i.e. it animates and attacks, when 
touched). One of six blades crafted by the 
archwizard Demron, this blade is some 
times known as "Demron's Bane," because a 
thief used it to kill him . 

Foebane is a one-handed bastard sword 
+4 . In addition to its base damage of ld8 + 4 
(ldl2 +4 vs. L-sized or larger creatures), it 
'burns" the life or unlife energy of certain 
targets so as to deal an additional ld8 points 
of damage to all undead creatures, all beings 
not native to the Prime Material Plane, and 
all evil-aligned creatures. It glows with a 
flickering blue flame whenever drawn; this 
is bright enough to read by. 

Foebane's +4 bonus applies not only to its 
damage and attack rolls, but also to any sav 
ing throws made by anyone holding it 
drawn. It also reflects back magic cast at it 
or at its wielder: each round, roll ld8. If hos 
tile magical item discharges or spell effects 














are of a level lower than the roll ; they are 
reflected back 100% at the source. If higher, 
they have normal effect. If of the same num 
ber; both sword-wielder and source are af 
fected; for half damage or results (if the 
nature of the spell makes this impossible; a 
"wild magic" effect occurs instead). 

Foebane and any creatures touching it (up 
to a maximum of eight) are affected as if by 
a feather fall spell, and when grasped and 
ordered, the blade can jump itself and up to 
three beings touching it, twice/day. 

Once per day, Foebane can "drink" life 
force, when grasped and ordered. After this 
power is activated, the next successful at 
tack made by the blade does double normal 
damage-and these doubled hit points are 
gained by the blade-wielder as healing hit 
points. The blade-wielder can't gain extra 
hit points in this way, and the blade can't 
create zombies, or drain more hit points 
than a target has (if zero is reached, the tar 
get dies, and is not made undead). 

Foebane can be commanded to "guard" 
whenever its owner is touching it. If the 
owner ceases to touch it after the order is 
given, the blade remains vigilant-and if the 
next entity to physically touch the blade is 
not the owner, the blade emits a very loud 
singing sound as it animates and attacks that 
entity, levitating about at MV Fl 24 (A), 
THACO 6. Consider the blade to have 77 hit 
points when it is striking by itself. The blade 
attacks the entity until it does 20 hit points 
of damage, the entity dies, or its owner re 
claims it. This power was typically used to 
guard against the theft of the blade from a 
sleeping owner. 

Lastly, the blade was intended for use by 
warriors. If wielded by a fighter, paladin, or 
ranger, they strike at one THACO better 
than usual for their present level; if wielded 
by any other class of character, they strike 
at one THACO worse than normal. 


Blade op Banishing 

XP Value: 4,500 GP Value: 5,000 

This dagger +2 twists magical barriers, 
protections, and illusions that it touches 
awry. Whenever it touches or impinges on a 
being or an area under an illusion, protect 
ive magic, or barrier, there is a percentage 
chance of the dagger destroying the magic. 

The weapon has a base chance of 60%, 
plus a random bonus of ld20%, and minus 
10% per level of the magic contacted (e.g. a 
shield spell is a first-level magic, and gives a 
modifier of -10%). A result of 99% is un 
successful; the blade must achieve 100% or 
more (note that spells of 8th level or greater 
can never be affected). 

Consider all magical item effects to have 
the level of the item's creator, if known-and 
otherwise, one level greater than the level 
of any equivalent spell. The DM may choose 
to consider all unknown defensive magics to 
be 7th or 8th level, and (if present in the 
campaign) all artifacts to be 12th level or 
greater. 

lb act, the dagger need not be drawn or 
wielded. Its destructive nature is constant 
(regardless of the caster's wishes) and need 
not be activated or invoked. If thrown or 
thrust through a barrier that it does not 
bring down, the blade (and wielder, if in 
contact with it) suffer the magic's full nor 
mal effects. If the blade destroys the barrier, 
no damage is done to the wielder, no matter 
how spectacular the failure is. 

Cbill Blade 

XP Value: 2,000 GP Value: 1,000 

This weapon appears (and can be used) as 
a normal weapon. Up to three rounds in any 
turn, its magical chill power can be acti 
vated, causing the blade to glow with a pale, 


i'll 22 















The Magic of Myth Drzannon 


-JLi- 


_JL1 


>-v-V • % rT 


ghostly white radiance. When so empow 
ered, a chill blade does an additional ld4 
points of damage per strike (no save to 
avoid), and forces the struck being to save 
vs. spell. 

If the save fails, the victim's attack rolls 
are made at -1 for the next hour (further 
successful attacks cause a greater penalty, 
as follows: three attacks cause a -2 penalty, 
five attacks a -3 penalty, and so on). Any 
chill blade strike that is successfully saved 
against does not count in this numbering. 

Undead suffer only 1 hit point of damage 
from a chill blade strike, but must save vs. 
spell each time they are struck, or be forced 
to flee for 2-5 rounds. 

Activation is instantaneous, and by will of 
the wielder. Activated or not, a chill blade it 
self saves against normal and magical cold, 
ice, and chill effects at +2. It does not con 
fer such bonuses on its wielder. 

The enchantment of a chill blade requires 
a finely-made dagger with a blade of ferrous 
metal, a piece of rock crystal, a snowflake or 
piece of ice, some sort of lightning or electri 
cal discharge, and the casting of a chill touch 
spell. 

Dagger* of Defiance 

XP Value: 3,500 GP Value: 1,000 

This dagger is of normal appearance and 
damage, but any one being grasping it is in 
stantly aided against certain magical effects 
and attacks. 

The wielder of a dagger of defiance is im 
mune to all forms of fear and repulsion. A 
+ 3 bonus to saving throws against all 
enchantment/charm attacks is also gained, 
as well as a +1 bonus to saves against all 
polymorph and petrification effects. These 
protections last as long as the dagger is 
touched, and cannot be exhausted, but they 
can never extend to more than one being. 


The enchantment of a dagger of defiance 
requires doppleganger blood and a distilled 
essence of xorn flesh, and involves the cast 
ing of fear and repulsion spells. 

Dagger ^ of Doomcoar*ding 

XP Value: 4,000 GP Value: 4 000 

This +1 weapon has seven charges when 
first enchanted. It cannot be recharged, and 
once the charges are used, it is a simple dag 
ger +1 thereafter. A charge is drained 
whenever the being grasping the dagger's 
hilt wills it (the number of charges left can 
be felt at all times). 

Using a charge from a dagger of 
doomwarding allows its wielder an extra 
action or chance in bad situations: an extra, 
additional attack in a given round; an addi 
tional saving throw attempt; another bend 
bars/lift gates roll, and so on (the DM's deci 
sion as to what actually occurs is final). Only 
one charge may be expended per round. 

The enchantment of this type of weapon 
is said to require a powdered unicorn horr 
or, even better: the touch of a living uni 
corn's horn to the blade. 

D rzagonfang 

XP Value: 3,000 GP Value ? HX 

This normal-appearing dagger doe* nzr- 
mal damage unless its power is invoice * 
can emit a straight-line, 90' long mzxtjfm. 
bolt from its tip four times a da> rue any 
twice in any one turn). The bolt doe* - - 
points of damage to all beings -r. rs parr, 
(save equals half damage). 

If the lightning is invoked as tne r a id er 
strikes a being, no bolt is producec rue m"e 
struck being takes the full hgSang ^aru age 
in addition to the dagger* pert'oea. ree No 
saving throw is allowed the bang e* er :.r it 
















t^±jLlj± 






WMM 


is normally immune to such attacks. 

Any dragon fang dagger attack does dou 
ble damage (no saves allowed) to all dragons, 
including oriental dragons, spacefaring and 
other-planar dragons, and dracoliches. 

Flying Dagger* 

XP Value: 3,000 GP Value: 15,000 

This item was very popular as an ani 
mated guardian in elder days. Many differ 
ent specimens can still be found (a DM can 
freely alter the statistics of an individual fly 
ing dagger. The secrets of magically animat 
ing such daggers are known to few living 
mages. Idl2 such daggers are usually 
found. A flying dagger darts about silently, 
point-first, and is usually nine inches long. 
The trigger activating a dagger can be as 
general as "attack all intruders" or as spe 
cific as the most elaborate triggering condi 
tions of a magic mouth spell (q.v.). 

An average flying dagger is AC 5; MV FI 24 
(A); HD 1 + 1; hp 9 each; THAC0 17; if AT 3; 
Dmg 1-4; and is considered a magical weap 
on for purposes of deciding what it can hit. 
Flying daggers cannot be affected by any 
sort of mental control. 

The spells which cause a flying dagger to 
swoop, dart, and detect opponents-it is 
usually enchanted to attack anything within 
60' that moves-also prevent rusting and 
brittleness due to extreme heat and cold. 

A dagger that successfully strikes a mov 
ing arrow or thrown weapon, deflects it, if a 
DM desires. 

Some flying daggers can reflect, or are im 
mune to, certain spells, or have special abili 
ties: e.g. their touch can rust metal items as 
a rust monster's antenna does. Items struck 
must save vs. lightning or rust. A flying dag 
ger strikes metal when it is attacking a tar 
get being carrying or wearing something 
metal, and its attack roll misses by only one 


to three points. 

Invisible Blade 

XP Value: 1,000 GP Value: 20,000 

This weapon does normal damage, but ap 
pears only as a hilt: its blade cannot be seen. 
Blood can outline or betray the location of 
its blade, but even striking a creature does 
not make the metal itself appear. An invisi 
ble blade can therefore be concealed in a 
man's grasp, and carried where weapons 
are not permitted. 

An invisible blade is always silent in strik 
ing, even when it falls or is thrust against 
stone or metal. It never reflects light, but 
can be normally affected by heat metal and 
similar spells, and can be readily seen by 
creatures able to see invisible objects. 

As long as an invisible blade is grasped (it 
need not be drawn), it allows its wielder to 
see as if using a detect invisibility (second- 
level wizard) spell. 

That spell, invisibility gaze reflection, and 
some form of magical silence are required 
for the enchantment of such a dagger; the 
magic must be worked on the blade as it is 
forged and tempered. 

Jump Dagger* 

XP Value: 2,000 GP Value: 6,000 

This magical weapon looks and functions 
as a normal dagger, but it has three special 
powers. One operates automatically, affect 
ing the blade and any one creature grasping 
it as if by a feather fall spell (this power is 
negated only during the use of the next 
power described). 

The wielder can by will jump (conditions 
as in the first-level wizard spell, one jump 
only), every other round, so long as the 
weapon is grasped (it need not be drawn). 


;1|124 















The Magic op Myth D rzannofi 



The weapon must accompany the wielder. 

The wielder can also move smallish ob 
jects about; by touch and will (the size of a 
simple^ adult human's chair, or smaller). An 
attack roll is required, and the object then 
jumps up to thirty feet away, its distance 
and direction controlled by the wielder of 
the jump dagger. 

This property is often used to pass weap 
ons, keys, and valuables to another being, or 
snatch them away from an enemy (such as a 
mage readying spell components!). If it is 
used to launch an attack (even indirectly, 
such as a lit torch being directed at a flam 
mable object), the DM should require a suc 
cessful attack roll to ensure that the object 
reached its intended target. 

If this power is directed at an opponent's 
weapon (or other firmly held object), the op 
ponent is allowed a strength check to retain 
hold, breaking the attempt (for that round, 
at least). If the check succeeds, the opponent 
retains full control over the weapon, and is 
not penalized in any attack rolls launched 
during the round. 

If the check fails, the weapon is snatched 
out of the opponent's grasp (magic weapons 
are allowed a save vs. spell to be unaffected, 
with a bonus equalling any pluses they pos 
sess). The opponent can never be overbal 
anced or pulled along by the affected item. 

The making of jump daggers requires 
feather fall jump, and levitate spells, in 
combination with a special tempering. The 
oil for the quenching of the tempering proc 
ess must contain blink dog or displacer 
beast blood or beholder ichor, stirred and 
mixed well. 

Rast Blade 

XP Value: 1,000 GP Value: 750 

These rare weapons appear as normal 
daggers, but they have a constantly- 


operating, involuntary power. Whenever 
the naked blade of a rust blade directly 
touches metal (a successful attack roll is re 
quired), the metal rusts, crumbling to use 
less shards and flakes in 1 round 

Magical metal items contacting a rust 
blade have a chance of escaping destruction 
equal to 10% per plus (e.g. a dagger +1 has 
a 10% chance of being unaffected). Special 
powers or abilities may, at the DM's option 
be considered equivalent to additional bo 
nuses. A rod of lordly might , for example 
has ten powers or forms and functions, and 
could be considered to have a 100% chance 
of escaping a rust blade's effects, if the DM 
deems it right. Consider all magical items 
that are not weapons or armor of some sort 
to have a 20% base chance of being unaf 
fected. 

Note that a rust blade cannot be carried in 
a metal scabbard, and is as much a hazard to 
the wielder and allies as it is to enemies. The 
making of such weapons requires some of 
the flesh of a rust monster antennae. 

If a rust monster smells such a blade, it at 
tacks it over all other possible metal meals. 
A rust blade touched by a rust monster an 
tenna collapses into a hot, sparkling grey liq 
uid. The rust monster immediately laps it up 
and then falls into a doze. The liquid takes 2- 
5 turns to digest, but acts as a healing agent 
and growth stimulant, giving the affected 
rust monster its full possible (40) hp. In rust 
monsters already at full hp, the devouring 
of a rust blade awakens a strong urge to 
mate, and causes them to wildly attack all 
sources of metal in the vicinity, ramming 
any creatures in the way, or bowling over 
any creatures wearing or carrying metal 
for 2-5 points of impact damage per charge 
(one charge a round, normal attack roll re 
quired, in addition to tentacle attacks). 

















Speaking Dagger? 

XP Value: 1,500 GP Value: 3,000 

This dagger strikes and does damage like a 
non-magical weapon, and appears as a nor 
mal blade. When thrown, however, its spe 
cial power is unleashed. It is +4 to hit only 
when thrown, and upon impact, emits an 
audible message. 

This spoken sending cannot be a spell in 
cantation, nor can it trigger any delayed 
spell or activate any item or effect by utter 
ance of a command word. It can, of course, 
convey passwords or instructions. Such a 
message reproduces the accent and tone of 
the speaker, can be up to fifty words in 
length, and is repeated each time the dagger 
is thrown. (The irritation that a mocking 
comment can produce makes it a favorite of 
Calishite torturers, who throw it into the 
arms and legs of bound prisoners in the 
darkness, without warning and at irregular 
intervals.) 

Only one message can be spoken over the 
dagger in a day (or any 144-turn period). A 
code-word (not part of the message, nor 
counted in its word length) begins and ends 
the dagger's recording of a message, which 
may be emplaced by any being knowing the 
word and having the power of speech. If the 
word is spoken twice over the blade without 
anything being said in between, the blade 
bears no message. 

The making of such blades is known to re 
quire the crushing of certain gems, the cast 
ing of a magic mouth spell, and the 
utterance of the code-word (which can nev 
er be changed, thereafter). 

SpectRal Blade 

XP Value: 3,000 GP Value: 6,000 

These eerie weapons were once very pop 


ular. Fashioned from the bones of creatures 
who died violently, they appear only as hilts 
carved of bone. When grasped by a living or 
undead being, a "blade" of glowing white 
"corpselight" appears from the hilt. 

The blade of light is insubstantial, and 
passes through solid objects: consider tar 
gets to be whatever armor class they natu 
rally possess (counting dexterity bonuses 
and magical protections but not physical ar 
mor, unless it is magical). For example, a 
knight of average dexterity in non-magical 
full plate armor is AC10 to this blade, not 
AC1. 

Whenever a spectral blade hits living 
flesh, it affects it as a chill touch spell does 
(the victim must save vs. spell or suffer ld4 
points of damage and loses 1 point of 
strength for an hour, or if not rated for 
strength, loses -1 on its attack rolls for eve 
ry second successful attack of the spectral 
blade). 

If this sort of weapon is wielded by an un 
dead creature, it automatically does 2d4 
points of damage per hit (strength loss still 
occurs only if the victim's save fails). Undead 
creatures cannot be harmed in any way by 
this weapon. 

Spi'deR Fang 

XP Value: 2,000 GP Value: 6,000 

This dagger +3 is always black or dark 
purple in hue. Its touch parts all non- 
magical ropes, bindings, and magical or nat 
ural (e.g. giant spider) webs in an instant. 
Despite the name, this weapon has no effect 
on poisons, and does not itself employ poi 
son. 

Once every 6 turns, a spider fang can emit 
a web (as the spell) from its tip. Such webs 
are in all respects identical to those created 
by the spell, and last for 4 turns if not de 
stroyed earlier. A spider fang can also emit a 


SSE 


126 













Tfoe Magic op Myth Drqqqor 



curtain of cobwebs once a day. This shroud- 
like, oval curtain hangs upright in mid-iair, 
always six feet in front of the point of the 
dagger. It partially obscures the vision of 
others, so that they may not be able to iden 
tify the wielder of the spider fang, and caus 
ing all missile attacks against the wielder to 
be launched at -1. 

A curtain of cobwebs acts in all respects 
like a shield (created by the first-level wiz 
ard spell of the same name), except that it 
has no effect at all on magic missiles. It lasts 
for seven rounds, moving as the point of the 
dagger is moved, and may be positioned 
over a window or portal and left there, if 
the wielder leaves the dagger on a table or 
jammed into a crevice, and then moves 
away. 

If a curtain of cobwebs contacts any living 
being who is not at the same time also touch 
ing the spider fang that created it, it col 
lapses instantly all over the being, doing ld3 
points of corrosive damage. A curtain of 
cobwebs is destroyed instantly by any con 
tact with flame, being consumed with a 
flash and a roar. If this occurs at the same 
time that the curtain contacts a creature, 
the creature suffers an additional 2d4 
points of fiery damage (save equals half 
damage). 

The creation of spider fangs is known to 
involve the ichor and web-silk of driders or 
certain types of spiders, shield and web 
spells, and a complicated brew of strange in 
gredients in which the blade must be sub 
merged for several days. 




127 














" S DRAGONS and FORGOTTEN REALMS are registered trademarks owned by TSR Inr: The TSR Irsgn is a 
trademark owned by T5 R Inc Copyrighl 1933 TSR Inc All Rrgtits Reserved Printed in the U 5 A 


1Q64XXX14Q1 





K 

Hl 

¦¦ - 




Advanced DungeonsJ^ragons 


MYTH. DRANNOR 
- ADVENTURES > 


j ..iiiKHT 





Myth Drannor 

When random generations of ruin features is desired; roll ldl2 
and consult this table. 

01. Font (pedestal water-bowl). Filled with wet moss and trailing 
creepers, 

02. Wall Carving. Relief-sculpted scene of: flying dragons with hu 
man riders, chasing each other in a circle 
or: unicorns and pegasi gamboling 

or: a human mage on a height, casting a spell at a circle of stars over 
head 

or: a pair of eyes staring out of a rising flame. 

03. Archway. Free-standing or part of a building wall that has fallen 
away. Broken or intact (perhaps illuminated by a slowly-cyling pattern 
of soft faerie fire radiances). 

04. Spire. Ornamental stone minaret carved with a pattern of stars 
chasing (or being trailed by) a crescent moon. 

05. Well. Cracked and dry, full of dead branches, crumbling leaves, 
stone rubble, and old bones, or intact and full of dark, scum-covered 
water. 

06. Statue. Broken or intact. Free-standing (e.g. a dragon curling at 
ease around a stone ball, or a watchful, armed elven warrior holding 
aloft a now-empty brazier) or permanently levitating above its base 
(e.g. stone book floating above the reaching hands of a sage, or a 
winged man exulting above a wingless woman who is reaching for 
him). 

07. Statue^ fallen and shattered. Elven male warrior or female 
human minstrel. Had gems inset in eyes, but someone has roughly 
chiseled these away. 

08. Fountain; either dry or enchanted (teleports a continuous 
stream of water in from elsewhere). Myth Drannan folk liked to hide 
messages and items of value in their fountains (usually in a secret com 
partment, not under the water); 70% chance of such a compartment, 


Features Table 

and 50% chance that it contains something of value (e.g. pearl y 
power, a Quaal's feather token , or other small magical item). 

09. Ornamented Tympanum. Gable-end of building has re he: 
carved scene of running elves hunting stags in a forest, or mermaic* 
entwined languidly around each other as they raise goblets in salute 

10. Steps. Broad, shallow, chased and fluted steps going down in:: 
rubble (leading to lower levels buried by collapse; by digging, PCs car 
reach a tunnel or dungeon level but attract many wandering monster- 
in the process) or going up (ending, broken off, in midair). In darkness 
the steps glow slightly, from an old enchantment designed to ease 
those traversing them. 

11. Seat. An elaborately-carved stone seat, comfortable and curving 
broken and/or toppled or intact and upright (if the latter, 2 in 6 chance 
of it being a speaking, intelligent "common" Mimic (MC2) that is willing 
to bargain information about the ruins in exchange for food and no: 
being attacked by PCs. 

Mimic: Int 10; AL N; AC 7; MV 3; HD 8; hp 58; THACO 13; *AT I 
Dmg 3d4 (smash); SA glue; SD camouflage; SZ L; ML 15; XP 1,40C 
MC2. 

12. Glowing Oval. A gate to (70% chance) elsewhere in Faerun or :c 
another plane; often used as garbage disposals, these might deposn 
beings passing through them into the Underdark (see FR11/Dwar\e* 
Deep or the Menzoberranzan boxed set) into ancient rubbish heap? 
that monsters such as ropers may lurk near, to prey on creatures ar 
riving through the gate. 

There is a 12% chance that the gate is one of those dedicated to La 
thander or another beneficial deity, and heals those passing through i: 
(as well as removing all poisons, and ending the effects of curses, poh • 
morph, paralyzation, petrification, or mind-influencing conditions) 
There is a 40% chance the gate takes users to another location it. 
Myth Drannor that is now empty air, above a ld6 xlO' drop (after the 
collapse or partial destruction of a building that it once entered). 


Myth Drannor Encounter Table 

Use this table only when PCs are within the Mythal, or when they flee from a monster encounter in 
Myth Drannor through a gate (a randomly determined monster or group of monsters may follow 
them). Roll 2d20 and consult this table; the numbers in brackets are the numbers of each monsters 
that appear, and asterisks denote new monsters introduced in this boxed set. Roll a second die when 

an "even/odd" result occurs, to determine which monster type is met. 


Encountered "Phaerimm Groups" consist of ld3 Phaerimm (FR13, summarized in this set) + ld6 
servitor undead (skeletons and zombies) + 2d6 other servant monsters (such as ettins, ores, and 
hobgoblins). The statistics of Alhoon and Dark Nagas are also summarized in this set. 

02. Windghosts (ldl2) * 

18. Gargoyles (2d8) MC2 

29. Even: Ormyrr (ldl2) * 

03. Xantravars (ld4) * 

19. Dark Nagas (ld3) FR12 + Bone Nagas 

Odd: Metalmaster (1) * 

04. Magebane (1) * 

(ldl2) * 

30. Gargoyles (2d8) MC2 

05. Even: Electrum Dragon (1) * 

20. Doomsphere (1) * or: DM's choice 

31. Hezrou [tanar'ri] (ld6) MC8 

Odd: Fang Dragon (1) * 

(monster not on these tables, e.g. spider 

32. Vrock [tanar'ri] (2d4) MC8 

06. Lythlyx (1) * 

or snake type) 

33. Erinyes [baatezu] (1) MC8 

07. Blazing Bones (1) * 

21. Chasme [tanar'ri] (ld6) MC8 

34. Even: Xaver (ld4) * 

08. Thnar'ri Group: MC8 

22. Even: Wraiths (2d6) MCI 

Odd: Skeletons (3dl0) MCI 

1 Glabrezu or Marilith or Nalfeshnee + 

Odd: Dread (ld6) * 

35. Gargoyles (2d8) MC2 

2dl2 Manes + (60%) 2d4 Vrock + 

23. Aratha (1) * 

36. Even: Wizshade (1) MC7 

(20%) ld6 Hezrou 

24. Even: Feystags (2) * 

Odd: Will-o'-wisp (ld3) MCI 

09. Babau [tanar'ri] (1) MC8 

Odd: Alhoon (ld4 + l) Menzo + (70% 

37. Even: Lythlyx (3d6) * 

10. Even: Ormyrr (Id 12) * 

chance) 

Odd: Blazing Bones (1) * 

Odd: Phaerimm Group (see above) 

3d4 servant monsters: DM's choice of 

38. Even: Baelnorn (1) * 

11. Gargoyles (2d8) MC2 

bugbears, hobgoblins, ogres, ores, and 

Odd: Phaerimm Group (see above) 

12. Cambion [tanar'ri] (1) MC8 

trolls 

39. Even: Fang Dragon (1) * 

13. Hezrou [tanar'ri] (ld6) MC8 

25. Erinyes [baatezu] (1) MC8 

Odd: Phaerimm Group (see above) 

14. Metalmasters (ld4) * 

26. Hobgoblins (2dl0) MCI 

40. Baatezu Group: MC8 

15. Vrock [tanar'ri] (2d4) MC8 

27. Dark Nagas (ld3) FR12 + Bone Nagas 

ld2 Cornugons + (40%) ld8 black 

16. Hobgoblins (2dl0) MCI 

(ldl2) * 

Abishai + (70%) ld6 Spinagons + 

17. Even: Aratha (1) * 

28. Even: Shadows (2dl0) MCI 

(50%) 2d6 Barbazu + (30%) 2d4 

Odd: Skeletons (3dl0) MCI 

Odd: Dread (ld6) * 

Hamatula 



Mf/tte Dr annorz A6oentaRes 


Table of: Contents 


Running Adventures in Myth Drannor.3 

The Crown of Stars.6 

The Wyrm Below .10 

What We Face in Dreams.15 

A Harp at Sunset. 20 

The Arm of Valor .25 

Myth Drannor Encounter Tables.inside cover 

Encircling Wood Encounter 'Ifibles...inside cover 

Myth Drannor Feature Tables...inside cover 

Myth Drannor Treasure Tables.inside cover 


CRedfts: 


Design: Ed Greenwood 
Editing: Newton H. Ewell 
Proofreading: Karen S. Boomgarden, 
Julia E. Martin 

Cover Art: Erik Olson, Jeff Easley 


Interior Art: Arnie Sweikel, 
John Statema 

Cartography: Dennis Kauth 
Typography: Tracey Zamagne 
Production: Paul Hanchette 

























ADVANCED DUNGEONS &, DRAGONS, AD&D, and FORGOTTEN REALMS are registered trademarks 
owned by TSR, Inc, 
DUNGEON MASTER, MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM and the TSR logo are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 

All TSR characters and the distinctive likeness thereof are trademarks of TSR, Inc. 


Copyright (r)1993 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 


Random House and its affiliated companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc. 
Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional 
distributors. 


;.n 




*T. i 1 


This work is protected by the; copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained hereir. 

prohibited without the express written consent of TSR, Inc. 













Running AdoentuR.es in Myth Drzannon 






Many come seeking, armored in greed 
But few return again from fair, fey 
Myth Drannor, broken city of beauty, 
lair of lurking death 
The pride and splendor of long ago 
still lure foolish and brave alike- 
and the grinning skulls 
of those who've gone before 
coldly watch another band of fools 
find a waiting grave. 

Tknthlin Starshann, 
Bard of Berdusk 

The DUNGEON MASTER(tm) who examines this 
set will discover there are a lot of things to 
keep track of. The wise DM reads through 
everything in a module or campaign setting 
before play, of course-not just to avoid miss 
ing something vital until it's too late (and the 
party's dead because she or he forgot about 
the room with the magical items they needed 
to defeat the four liches but remembered the 
six beholders that attack from behind in the 
same encounter!), but also to get to know the 
places, mentally picturing things and formu 
lating ideas of what to do. 

When using this set, it is crucial to prepare 
beforehand (DMs without Volume 8 of the 
MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM* will have to 
make major revisions to adventures, for exam 
ple). The effects of introducing many powerful 
elements into a campaign must be considered. 
The loot obtainable here is considerable, but 
the mythal and its manyfold effects should 
dominate play; without it, Myth Drannor be 
comes too easy a challenge even for mid-level 
adventurers, and starts to achieve the tense 
boredom (as experienced players know, that's 
not the contradiction it sounds like) of a endless 
"monster gauntlet," with PCs wading through 
one bloody encounter after another. 

On the other hand, many AD&D(r) game ad 
ventures begin with the warning that random 
encounters should be used with caution, so as 
not to ruin a party's chances by overwhelming 
them before they get anywhere. Apply no 
such caution here! If your PCs start to feel like 
rocks bouncing down a mountainside during 


an avalanche, you're doing it right! 

From the moment an adventurer enters 
Myth Drannor, the danger should mount. Al 
though an eerie silence may prevail over much 
of the ruins at the outset, most intruders are 
driven to seek shelter in the ruins (or under 
ground) by the sheer volume of attacks they 
take on the surface. 

A gargoyle or winged baatezu or tanar'ri of 
ten sights adventurers and swoops to the at 
tack. Unless part of a group, it usually keeps 
silent to avoid drawing competition for its in 
tended victims-but if the PCs make too much 
noise, take too long to deal with it, or let it es 
cape, other attackers will show up. The adven 
turer Steelshorn of Selgaunt's favorite 
tavern-tale is of hacking his way through the 
many heads of a hydra that grew new ones as 
fast as he could chop only to look up and see 
two wyverns, six gargoyles, an owlbear, two 
ettins, three spinagon baatezu, and a small 
band of hobgoblins converging on his band, all 
eager for sport before turning on each other! 

Most expeditions into Myth Drannor turn 
out as Steelshorn's did; adventurers run a con 
tinual gauntlet of monsters, getting as far as 
they can (and snatching what booty they can 
find) before hurriedly turning around and 
fighting their way back out again! Those who 
would survive must keep eyes on their means 
of healing and spells remaining and never ex 
plore too deeply. 

This laudable strategy is complicated by a 
feature of Myth Drannor that makes it easy 
for any DM to land a party in frying-pan after 
fire after sizzling skillet (and also to snatch 
them from the jaws of total destruction after 
they've been thoroughly scared, beaten, and 
brought to the very doors of death): the many 
gates that function in Myth Drannor, despite 
the mythal. If adventurers go in a direction the 
DM hasn't prepared for, or he prefers to run a 
certain adventure that they're avoiding the 
setup for, an unavoidable gate or even a tele 
port trap that encompasses an entire large 
chamber can dump them into the intended 
peril! 

Many forays into Myth Drannor follow this 











Running Aduenturzes in IVk/tb D rzannorz 



general script: the party heads for the intend 
ed goal (if they're wise, a single specific build 
ing they want to explore, with a known escape 
route or plan), and is ambushed or otherwise 
meets with a "warmup" encounter with the 
less intelligent foraging monsters in the ruins. 

The battle attracts more formidable foes, 
and the PCs are forced to retreat, perish 
where they stand, or flee into an unintended 
area where they find themselves in the midst 
of an adventure or encounter the DM pre 
pared beforehand. Wise adventurers think of 
how to get out the moment they find them 
selves in unfamiliar territory-amid the bones 
of those who didn't spare thought for such de 
tails. 

The many hazards make it impossible for 
most folk to adequately explore the ruins-or 
even pause for a breath or two to gawk at its 
grandeur (let alone examine anything thor 
oughly). Racing through piles of fascinating 
junk and fallen buildings while engaging in 
more-or-less constant running fights is how 
most adventurers explore Myth Drannor. The 
DM who keeps things this way will instill a 
healthy respect for Myth Drannor in players, 
and avoid having to exhaustively detail every 
fallen tile and carved molding to satisfy the 
painstakingly studious examiner-of-all- 
sur roundings. 

That's a good thing, because it's impossible to 
detail all of the beauty that was Myth Drannor 
in even a dozen boxed sets this size. Consult 
the "Features and Treasures" tables on the in 
side cover of this booklet, and the "Ruins Rub 
ble T&ble" (on its own cardsheet) to get some 
idea of the endless bric-a-brac that can be 
found in the ruins. For DMs who've always 
wanted to sneak a favorite "wacko" item into 
play, from a jewelled croaking frog or ani 
mated rubber ducky to a sword that bends 
limply when drawn in a fight and talks back to 
its wielder-well, here's their chance. The 
trick is to maintain an air of wonder, strange 
ness, and fallen grandeur, and not to let things 
slip into silliness. 

If a DM is careful to play intelligent monsters 
and rival adventuring bands as long-term PC 


foes (letting them use their superior knowl 
edge of the ruins to flee, escaping when they 
lead PCs into a trap where other monsters 
must be fought, for example), adventures be 
gin to set themselves up: PCs decide what 
they're going to do and set about it, and the 
DM determines what these foes have decided 
in the interim, and what the PCs will run into. 
It's a long way to reach food (except for PCs 
generous in their offerings to Lathander), so 
PCs doing any extended exploration of Myth 
Drannor will have to break off to hunt (take a 
look at the "Encircling Woods Encounter 1k- 
ble;" they'll spend most of their time fighting 
for their lives, not cutting up food for the 
cooking fire)-or seize food from others 
(which is what the others will, of course, try to 
do to them!). 

Here are some of the threads a DM can 
weave, if there is any extended play in Myth 
Drannor. 

PCs must fight several foraging monsters on 
their first entry into the ruins. They are seen 
by creatures who serve an Alhoon and by 
those who serve a Phaerimm, as well as by gar 
goyles and lesser baatezu or tanar'ri (or both). 

All of these spectators report back to their 
superiors. Plans are made to lay ambushes for 
the PCs on their next foray, or to pursue them 
to wherever they are camped to size their 
goods and take them as slaves or meals. 

PCs are stalked and attacked by at least one 
of these planned raids. On their next foray in 
to the ruins (or the next day's continued explo 
ration), two of the groups planning to trap the 
PCs run into each other, and a fight (which the 
PCs notice) erupts. The noise attracts other 
spectators; if the PCs withdraw or keep hid 
den, the fight will end after a few large preda 
tors (a fang dragon and a metalmaster, 
perhaps) are drawn by the activity and show 
up to dine. If PCs show themselves or become 
embroiled, they put themselves on the ene 
mies lists of any surviving members of the bat 
tling groups-and are noticed by other 
inhabitants of the ruins, such as two or more 
rival Phaerimm. Some attempt to lure the PCs 
into finding powerful battle-magic and then in- 













Running Adoenturzes in Myth D rzannorz 



ested in poisoning or using mind-influencing 
magic on the PCs, to gain their enforced serv 
ice as agents, and/or the treasure they've al 
ready taken from the ruins; the latter group 
will want to hire them as guides and as inspira 
tional speakers at merchant conventions and 
councils. Local drunkards and bullies in tav 
erns where PCs stop may slink away-or may 
try to challenge weary PCs to bolster their 
own reputations. 

Tb have explored Myth Drannor and sur 
vived to bring back riches, like making it alive 
out of the deeper levels of Undermountain, is a 
mark of distinction among adventurers and 
mercenaries in the Realms, allowing PCs to 
raise the fees they charge for guard and guide 
duties, and even making them the subjects of 
ballads and tavern-talk. This in turn invites the 
unwanted attentions of thieves and unscrupu 
lous wizards, plus possible life-long (not neces 
sarily very long!) jobs as hirelings of wizards 
who want rare and exotic bits of monsters as 
magical components. 


to a confrontation with others who are long 
term foes or obstacles to those doing the lur 
ing; others simply see new victims to attack 
that night or when weakened by a hard battle. 

Undead servants are sent to wear the PCs 
down and deprive them of time to rest and re 
group; the resulting battle brings the attention 
of other foraging monsters, or patrols of 
baatezu, gargoyles, or tanarTi. So it goes, until 
PCs die, retreat, or find (sometimes inadver 
tently, by means of a gate) a way out of Myth 
Drannor. 

The attentions may continue outside the ru 
ins if PCs ever reveal that they've been into 
Myth Drannor and got out alive (they need not 
do this deliberately; all it takes is one merchant 
who knew or suspected where they were go 
ing, and later sees them in public again). Sages, 
thieves' guilds, and brotherhoods such as the 
Zhentarim and the Merchants League will be 
interested in hiring them to learn of their ex 
ploits. The former group and its evil rivals, 
such as the Cult of the Dragon, will be inter 




5 

{ 

































The Crogoo op StaRs 



In the dusky shadows of a gaping doorway 
deep in the ruins, you catch sight of a clus 
ter of tiny, winking lights. They seem to 
sparkle, shimmer, and move slightly, as if 
they can see you . . . 


For the DM 

This adventure features a powerful magic 
item; if it seems too strong, substitute a lesser 
one (or have it vanish in battle, as explained 
below). Alternatively, mages serving the rulers 
of wherever the PCs live could detect the 
crown, and send a stream of officials demand 
ing it be turned over to the local king or lord- 
perhaps in return for a title or land (a gift that 
in turn plunges the PCs into other adventures). 

StoRy BackgRoand 

Over sixty years ago, the Shadow Shields adven 
turing band used powerful magic to avoid the 
elven patrols and reach Myth Drannor. Under 
one high house they found a crypt, only to meet 
a sleepless guardian there: the family baelnorn, 
once the elven mage Ilrune Symbaern. 

The Shields were strong and arrogant; there 
was a mighty battle. Treasure was blasted to 
dust and flying shards, pillars hurled aside and 
earth torn asunder-and House Symbaern col 
lapsed, burying the crypt. A few of the Shields 
managed to flee; the rest perished. When silence 
returned, almost all the treasure was lost, 
buried-but the baelnorn had gained the Crown 
of Stars from the crushed skull of the warrior 
Rauthlor Grymmund, leader of the Shields. 

Some of the Shields, including Rauthlor, rose 
as undead, and tried again to defeat Ilrune. Far 
overmatched, they retreated in frustration, dig 
ging up to the surface to find other victims, oth 
er treasure, and beings to lure down to battle the 
baelnorn. They could fall on the weakened sur 
vivor of such a fight, and triumph at last. 

Ilrune would also like to lure powerful in 
truders to the crypt, to destroy the Shields be 


fore they find some way to overcome him. 

The AdoeetaRe 

Read the "twinkling eyes" boxed text to PCs 
several times before the adventure, so they 
feel they're being watched. If PCs investigate 
the lights, they wink out, leaving a faint, dissi 
pating magic aura (forming a faint trail to 
wards the buried crypt). Ilrune is observing 
the PCs, and trying to draw them to him. 

When PCs draw near the crypt, the eyes are 
seen again-closer than before, and clearly 
moving towards a dark opening (an entrance 
to the tunnels cleared by the undead Shields). 
If PCs follow, they are attacked bv what is left 
of the Shields: a group of wights. 

Wight WorrIors 


There is sudden movement in the rubble; 
dust rises, and out of it rear men whose eyes 
blaze with a strange light. They wear dan 
gling tatters of long-neglected armor over 
grey, mummified flesh. Their hands are sharp 
claws, raised to strike as they clamber out of 
the tumbled stones towards you. 

There are five wights: three former Shields and 
two recent victims; half-strength servant-wights. 
These newer undead wear banded mail that is 
still salvageable and still protects them. One has 
a belt pouch full of rotten food, mold, and a cloth 
bag holding 6 gp, 8 sp, and 4 cp. Under the 
pouch, forgotten, is a dagger +2 with a silver- 
plated blade that is invisible except during the 
round after it strikes, or when bloody 
The wights attack viciously; if battle goes 
against them or they are turned, they flee into 
the tunnels. They have no other weapons. If the 
fight is equal, they also retreat down die tunnels, 
hoping to lure the PCs into battle with Ilrune. 

Wights (3): Int 10; AL LE; AC 5; MV 12; HD 
4 + 3; hp 31, 27, 24; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4 
(claw); SA level drain (each hit drains 1 level 


p 



V 




6 

i 

V 



2 













The Crtocon of Starts 



and fall as they traverse the tilted, smashed 
rooms of the fallen house. Spiders and snakes 
move (harmlessly) aside as PCs explore; the on 
ly dangers are undead ambushes and the 
chances of a collapse from the "ceiling" of 
shifting rubble above, or a fall through the 
"floor" into hitherto unrevealed cavities below 
(blind pits with no way out but to clamber 
back up into the tunnel). 

In normal exploration, PCs are skillful 
enough to avoid falling rubble or unsafe foot 
ing; but each round in which a PC is hurrying 
or fighting, he must make dexterity and intelli 
gence checks. If either fails, the PC takes ld2 
damage from a falling piece of rubble, slips 
(MV reduced by 2 that round), and must make 
another dexterity check. If it fails, a collapse of 
ceiling (even roll) or floor (odd) occurs. All be 
ings within 10' of the PC must make a dexteri 
ty check or suffer 3d4 points of falling or 
impact-from-above damage; the PC triggering 
the collapse takes 4 + 2d4 points of damage. 

In the tunnels, two fleeing wights hide be- 



from victim); SD immune to poison, paralyza- 
tion, sleep, charm, hold, and cold-based at 
tacks, hit only by silver or +1 or better magic 
weapons; SZ M; ML 14; XP 975 each; MCI. 

Half-strength Wights (2): Int 8; AL LE; AC 
4; MV 12; HD 2+2; hp 16, 14 [both HD and hp 
double if 2 if the true wights are slain]; THACO 
15; MT 1; Dmg 1-4 (claw); SA level drain (each 
hit drains 1 level from victim); SD immune to 
poison, paralyzation, sleep, charm, hold, and 
cold-based attacks; SZ M; ML 14; XP 485 each 
[rises to 975 if their HD double]; MCI. These 
particular half-wights can be hit by any weap 
ons until they become true wights, but can! be 
turned until then, either. They make the first 
attack on the PCs, blocking any PC charge at 
the true wights. 

The Tunnels 

The unmapped ways down through the fallen 
house are narrow, irregular tunnels that rise 















The Crogdq op SCqrs 



hind a stone slab they pull shut behind them, 
so it appears part of the wall, and wait there to 
ambush PCs returning or fleeing from meet 
ing the baelnorn, from behind. Additional 
wights (even if previously turned) attack PCs 
again. 

In two places, the tunnels open up into large 
rooms, each home to ld4 skeletons. If PCs trig 
ger more than two floor collapses, the third 
and fourth pits they fall into also have undead 
skeletal occupants-who get one free attack 
on any PC entering the pit. 

Skeletons: Int 0; AL N; AC 7; MV 12; HD 1; hp 
7 each; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; SD half 
damage from pointed/piercing weapons, im 
mune to fear, sleep, charm, hold, and cold- 
based attacks; while in the magical radiations 
of the House where they came to undeath, 
they cant be turned, commanded by evil 
priests, or dispelled; SZ M; ML 20; XP 65 each; 
MCI. 

The labyrinthine tunnels cross, rejoin, and 
twist in as complex a manner as the DM de 
sires, but lead to only two places: the surface 
(in at least six spots.at least two of which 
should land PCs in other adventures), and the 
crypt. 

Tbe St/rabaeRO Cmjpt 

The departed of House Symbaern once slept 
undisturbed in a long, low stone chamber with 
a fan-vaulted ceiling. Its rear end is now bur 
ied in rubble, but the baelnorn waits for in 
truders there, amid the four stone coffins that 
remain accessible (with exceptions noted be 
low, none hold undead, treasure, traps, or any 
dangers, only crumbling remains). A circle of 
floating skulls (his warning guardians; as PCs 
pass certain points in the tunnels, the teeth of 
particular skulls chatter, or jawless skulls bob 
down to rap against the stone flooring; this is a 
spell, not undeath on the part of the skulls). 

The open part of the room is 50' x 50' 
square, and contains a forest of stone pillars 
(on a grid map of the room, a pillar stands at 


each 10' line-junction). Four closed, unmarked 
stone coffins are clear of the rubble along the 
western wall. The baelnorn stands just in 
front of them, facing PCs calmly. 

In undeath, Ilrune Symbaern remains slim, 
agile, elegant, polite-and deadly. He enjoys 
battle, but speaks to intruders politely, bidding 
them state their business, in peace. 

If PCs do so, the baelnorn truthfully says 
few treasures of his House remain accessible, 
in locations known to him, since its collapse, 
but he can offer them some coins-'"things 
those who sleep here now have no use for, and 
whose loss won't diminish their honor" if they 
'll destroy the wights and skeletons who 
plague him, cleaning out the tunnels. 

If the PCs do so, Ilrune will be true to his 
word; he instructs them to break open a cer 
tain pillar (by smashing a coffin lid into it) to 
reveal a secret compartment, in which are six 
teen unlocked coin storage tubes (see the 
"Myth Drannor Treasures T^ble"), each con 
taining 300 gp. He tells the PCs to take what 
they can carry, but warns them he will be 
forced to fight them if they try to despoil any 
tombs or search further in the family vault. Il 
rune also politely asks if any PCs are mages. If 
the reply is affirmative, he beckons them to 
approach, and in lowered tones apologizes for 
asking, but he'd like to know their alignment 
(if more than one PC wizard is present, he 
adds: "alone, in confidence, of course"). Ilrune 
has already cast a wizardly detect lie spell of 
his own devising. 

Tb any PC mage revealing himself truly to be 
of good alignment, Ilrune gives the Crown of 
Stars (if there is more than one, Ilrune gives it 
to a lawful good wizard; if there are two, to 
the one who seems more prudent and less ag 
gressive) in return for the promise that it be 
used for protection and upholding the causes 
of good in battle, not for grave-robbing. Ilrune 
falsely adds that most Crown powers won't 
work in this vault, and correctly that he has 
cast spells on the Crown that allow him to con 
trol it, even against someone else wearing it, in 
the vault (this will prove to be true!). 

If there are no PC wizards of good align- 













ment, Ilrune does not surrender the Crown. 
Tb get it (or the only other surviving Symbaern 
treasure, a flat coffer holding 20 matched 
5,000 gp-value rubies, hidden in a niche in a 
coffin lid), PCs will have to fight him. 

Ilrune also battles PCs if they attack him at 
any time. He begins by stepping on a certain 
stone that topples a vault support pillar onto 
the PCs, causing a small ceiling collapse. 

The room shakes, and the ceiling comes 
down with a roar. All PCs must make a dexteri 
ty check and a strength check. If both succeed, 
they are only blinded by dust for 1 round (dur 
ing which Ilrune slips away; see below). If only 
one succeeds, the PC takes 2d4 hp damage 
from falling stones. If both fail, a piece of the 
pillar smashes the PC for 4d4 damage. 

The dust clears enough to see by the end of 
the next round, but still drifts about for a turn. 
Only about a three-foot thickness of stone has 
come down, leaving loose rubble overhead 
(not any sort of opening or revealed treasure). 

Under cover of the dust and confusion, the 
baelnorn opens a coffin and gets inside, pull 
ing it closed. Then he uses a telekinesis spell to 
hurl his floating skulls at the PCs, as 50' range 
(THAC0 11) missiles that burst into flying bone 
shards when they hit, each doing a struck PC 
ldlO magical chilling damage. 

From inside the coffin, Ilrune then uses his 
project image ability to create an image of him 
self appearing behind the PCs (in the tunnel 
they entered the crypt by, nowhere near the 
coffin where he really is), and via this image 
hurls spells at the PCs. (He can't use crown 
powers through his image.) 

In life, Ilrune was a W15; his spells are 
5,5,5,5,5,2,1. By this point, he has cast two 
fifth-level spells, his detect lie and telekinesis, 
but still has his other spells: magic missile x 5/ 
blindness, levitate, locate object *3/fireball 
x 3, fly, slow!charm monster, ice storm x 2, 
polymorph other, wall of fire/animate dead, 
hold monster, wall of force/flesh to stone, 
repulsion/forcecage. 

Ilrune Symbaern (baelnorn): Int 19; AL 

LG; AC 0; MV 9; HD 9+6; hp 69; THACO 11; 


#AT 1; Dmg ldlO; SA spell use, project image 
power; SD +1 or better magic weapon needed 
to hit; MR 50%; SZ M; ML 20; XP 10,000; MD. 
Ilrune uses variant spells he has devised that 
don't require material components. His 
spellbooks are lost, buried deep in the collapse 
of the House; he is using scrolls kept on his 
person. They must make item saving throws 
according to any PC attacks on Ilrune. 

Unless the PCs find him by tearing open the 
coffin, Ilrune remains inside it, atop the bones 
of a long-dead relative. There are no other hol 
low pillars or traps in the crypt. 

The Crown of Stars 

XP Value: 9,000 GP Value: 36,000 

This rare, possibly unique magical item is a 
circle of floating, apparently unattached gems: 
palm-sized emeralds, rubies, sapphires, and di 
amonds of at least 14,000 gp value each. They 
glow with faint, twinkling magical radiances 
that can't be magically masked or dimmed 
(and show even through magical darkness). 
From afar, they are often mistaken for ioun 
stones. 

Invisible fields of magic bind the gems togeth 
er in a ring that cant be broken by any known 
physical attack or magical means short of a suc 
cessful limited wish or disintegrate spell (the 
crown saves vs. spell as if it was a W20). 

Crown powers can only be used by a being 
wearing it. In a day (24 hour or 144-tum period), 
it can unleash the following powers nine times 
each (range and effects as if cast by a W20, ex 
cept as noted): dispel magic, lightning bolt (9d6 
points of damage, 90' range), unseen servant, 
Evard's black tentacles, wizard eye (a variant; the 
user's spectral eye appears as a wraith-like, in 
tangible head, encircled by the twinkling lights 
of the crown; the user cant be attacked through 
this image, but can be identified). It can also un 
leash a death spell and a meteor swarm once per 
day, but using either of these greater powers 
permanently reduces a randomly chosen attrib 
ute of the wearer by 1 point, and there is a 3 in 
10 chance that it will vanish, shifting to another 
plane (without the wearer), immediately after 
the power takes effect. 


F 


\ 



9 ] 
















l _ "-"¦¦¦*- " M -* ..""' *-*--' r"JT"-- - .' ^ - - 


The W^rdq Beloco 


L . jc *. 11 .- Jj--- - •" .' " . *-" -- * ==*-- 


For the DM 

This adventure involves a dragon's lair-with a 
dragon, of course, but also with powerful trea 
sure. Please consider the effects of this loot on 
play, and alter things to best suit your cam 
paign before play begins (the treasure present 
ed herein can of course be used in other 
situations and adventures, when detailed trea 
sure items are needed in a hurry). The shaft 
leading to the lair can be placed anywhere you 
desire in the devastated "rubble" areas of ru 
ined Myth Drannor. 

Stony Background 

Few are the dragons mighty enough to survive 
in Myth Drannor, with the magical restrictions 
of the mythal and the perils of organized in 
truders such as the baatezu, tanarTi, nagara, 
phaerimm, and alhoon. Narlgathra is such a 
one, a female red dragon of experience, cun 
ning, and power. She has established a lair 
here, and held her own against many attack 
ers. She views intruders into her lair as meals 
and potential contributors to her ever 
growing treasures, and has set things up to 
both beckon and properly welcome them. 

Tbe AdoeutaRe 

In a depression in a area of tumbled rubble, 
PCs come upon a circular, 90' diameter 
opening-the top of a shaft descending into 
the depths. Light comes up from it-a flicker 
ing, blue-white through purple-white, chang 
ing and dancing radiance. 

The radiance is coming from a lit area part 
way down the shaft: a field of light in which 
hangs a massive, motionless form. 

The field is a mighty spell that works despite 
the mythal: the shaft, and the huge hall it 
reaches, are immune to all mythal effects (and 
wild magic of any sort, including the spells of 
wild mages). 

The field holds a young red dragon in stasis, 


hanging motionless in the shaft, eyes closed, 
wings half-furled in the act of beating to hurl 
the dragon upwards. If the shaft is entered by 
any item bearing a dweomer, any spell, or any 
living being, the stasis is ended. (In other 
words, PCs can pepper the dragon with non- 
magical missile attacks without awakening it, 
or get in one "free shot" spell attack, before it 
is released.) 

If PCs wake the dragon, the adventure be 
gins. (If PCs move on, and come back to check 
on the shaft at a later time, they'll still find the 
young dragon in stasis.) 

DRagon Attack 


The eyes of the dragon below you snap 
open, blazing with angry fire. The half- 
furled wings clap, and the huge form leaps 
upwards with terrifying speed, right at 
you! 


The dragon breathes fire at the adventurers it 
can see as it reaches the top of the shaft, and 
continues climbing aloft as fast as possible, to 
get out of spell range until (2 rounds later) it 
can breathe again-whereupon it plunges out 
of the sky and attacks. It fights until the PCs 
are all dead or it is reduced to 20 hp or less, 
whereupon it tries to flee, flying high and far, 
heading for the Thunder Peaks to find a ledge 
and there lick its wounds. 

This dragon, Sssurist, is too young to have 
spells or a magic resistance, speaks only drag 
on tongues, and is fanatically devoted to its 
mother, Narlgathra (it cannot be made to at 
tack her by any means). 

Sssurist (young Red Dragon): Int 15; AL 

CE; AC -2; MV 9, FI 30 (C), Jp 3; HD 11; hp 76; 
THACO 5; #AT 3; Dmg ldlO X 2 (claws), 3dl0 
bite, +3 combat modifier; SA fiery breath 
weapon usable every 3rd round, for 6dl0 + 3 
dmg, can affect normal fires thrice/day; SD im 
mune to fire; MR Nil; SZ G (40' body, 28' tail); 
ML 18; XP 6,000; MCI. 

If PCs overcome Sssurist and venture into 

















the shaft; they discover it goes down 400' (the 
stasis field is 80' down, and 60' thick). If they 
enter this field; the next encounter occurs in 
the field. If PCs use a dispel magic on the field; 
it flickers out; but a spell trigger causes this en 
counter to occur around the source of the dis 
pel magic. 

A Cutting Welcome 


The air around you is suddenly full of 
whirling blades! Hundreds of edges flash 
and glitter mirroring your horrified gaze! 


A blade barrier has come into being. Part of 
the field; it is cylindrical; 90' in diameter and 
60' thick, and does 8d8 damage/round (it 
lasts for 2 turns, or until another dispel mag 
ic is used on it). PCs trying to escape must 
state where they're trying to go (up or 
down), and make a saving throw. If this is 
successful, they take only 4d8 damage that 
round-but unless flying or falling down the 
shaft, a PC near the midpoint of the field will 
need at least another round to get out (with 
the same damage and saving throw). If PCs 
are climbing down a rope, it must make ten 
saving throws per round (against "magical 
fire") or be severed; consider the first save to 
be at the top of the field, the second six feet 
lower, and so on, to find out where (PCs be 
low that point will fall with it). 

Falling from the bottom of the field to the 
floor of the hall below causes a PC 20d6 points 
of damage. If Sssurist is fighting the PCs while 
the blade barrier exists, note that it knows 
about this effect, and cannot be tricked into 
diving down the shaft into the blades (al 
though a PC spell might force the young drag 
on into such a plunge). 

If PCs get past the field and reach the hall 
alive, they see the following: 


Lqir op Doom 


A huge hall opens out around you, its far 
reaches lost in darkness. All you see, far off, 
are two eyes, like large yellow lamps. Then 
you hear a deep, rolling chuckle . . . 


The eyes and the amusement belong to 
Narlgathra, who lies upon a bed of treasure 
600' away from the PCs. The hall (which is 
linked to no other rooms, unless a DM elects to 
provide a way out by having fissures where 
the dragon's digging has opened ways into an 
cient crypts and storage cellars) is a vault- 
ceilinged hall decorated with relief carvings of 
huge (life-sized) flying dragons. It is 90' high, 
120' across, and 1600' long, with the shaft 100' 
from one end, and the dragon 300' from the 
other. 

Narlgathra, alerted, has already cast a wall 
of fire between herself and the PCs. She lies 
behind it, and speaks to any PCs who appear, 
promising to levitate them back to the top of 
the shaft (she reveals that "magic works here") 
if they do not attack her, and leave behind 
everything they wear and carry. Any PCs who 
do so, she lifts clear of their items and 
promptly fries with her breath (if the blade 
barrier is still functioning, she'll raise them 
through that, instead-and then cease her levi 
tation, so they fall back through it a second 
time, and plunge to the hall floor-and if they 
rise from such a fall, she'll promptly breathe 
on them). 

Narlgathra can communicate with any intel 
ligent creature, and has the spells: 2,2,2,1/1. 
She paid six wizards and priests handsomely 
to create the defenses of her lair-and then 
paid adventurers even more to hunt down and 
kill those mages and priests. She fights until 
brought to 30 hp or fewer, and then tries to 
escape by either flying up the shaft or using 
the gate (see below; she'll use whichever route 
is less exposed to PC attack), to get her revenge 
on the PCs later. 

Narlgathra (venerable red dragon): Int 


r 


\ 

•? 


11 < 













Tine W yum Belouo 



16; AL CE; AC - 9; MV 9, FI 30 (C), Jp 3; HD 19; 
hp 141; THACO ; #AT 3; Dmg ldlO x 2 (claws), 
3dl0 bite, +10 combat modifier; SA fiery 
breath weapon usable every 3rd round, for 
20dl0 +10 dmg, can affect normal fires, 100'- 
radius detect gems, kind and number and use 
pyrotechnics thrice/day, heat metal sugges 
tion, and hypnotism, all once/day; SD immune 
to fire; MR 55%; SZ G (40' body, 28' tail); ML 
18; XP 18,000; MCI. 

Narlgathra's spells are cast by silent thought, 
take effect as if she were a 9th-level spellcast- 
er, and are magic missile, unseen servant/ 
levitate, web/dispel magic x 2/ wall of fire, and 
the priest spell cure light wounds (will use on 
self). 

If the DM has access to the Tbme of Magic 
rulebook, change Narlgathra's spells to: charm 
person, magic missile/Hornung's baneful de 
flector, ESP/alternate reality, dispel magic, 
wraithform/Rary's mnemonic enhancer and 
cure light wounds. 

Coocladfiog tbe 
AdoeiotaRe 

If PCs defeat Narlgathra, they can get at her 
treasure (allow thief PCs a chance to steal 
items during the fray), and explore her lair. 

This hall was once a temple to Aumrathar 
the Greater Dragon (a now-vanished human 
cult). Behind the vast heap of treasure that 
Narlgathra lies on is an altar, made of a single 
block of stone carved into the shape of a great 
circular bowl 20' across; 4' above it floats a 
sphere of everlasting fire, and in the sphere 
float four large dusky-red ovals: red dragon 
eggs. 

The sphere is simply permanent magical 
flame (unless a dispel magic is used to destroy 
it; all other spells are absorbed as energy to 
continue the conflagration). It destroys non- 
magical items at the end of 1 round of expo 
sure, forces magical items to make "magical 
fire" saving throws for each contact, and does 
2dl2 points of damage per contact (or round 


of continued exposure) to beings-permanent 
damage forever removed from the hit point to 
tal of the being! 

The eggs can be pushed out of the flames by 
using weapons, but they will hatch if allowed 
to fall (if caught, catching PCs take 2d4 points 
of heat damage each) or if they cool: 12 + ldl2 
rounds after removal from the flames, the 
first egg cracks, and the others open within 
ld6 rounds of the first, emitting hungry hatch 
ling red dragons! 

Hatchling red dragons (4): Int 15; AL CE; 

AC 0; MV 9, FI 30 (C), Jp 3; HD 7; hp 36 each; 
THACO 9; MT 3; Dmg ldlO x 2 (claws), 3dl0 
bite, +1 combat modifier; SA fiery breath 
weapon usable every 3rd round, for 2dl0 +1 
dmg; SD immune to fire; MR Nil; SZ H (12' 
body, 12' tail); ML 17; XP 3,000; MCI. 

Behind the altar is a 80' diameter circle of pol 
ished black marble. Faintly-glowing Thorass 
characters have been etched into its center, 
forming the word "AUBRATH." If this word is 
uttered aloud by any being in contact with the 
marble disc, the gate operates: the being is in 
stantly teleported to a matching disc in a hang 
ing valley high in the Thunder Peaks. (Its 
word, for return journeys, is "NAMBAR" It is 
surrounded by a wall of bones to deter in 
truders, and trolls are known to lair nearby.) 
This gate allowed dragons to enter and leave 
the temple when Myth Drannor was a living 
city. If PCs learn of this gate and escape the 
dragon, they may be able to use it to sneak in 
behind her, later, to steal treasure from her 
hoard. 

If Narlgathra escapes PCs, she attacks them 
as they try to take any treasure out of Myth 
Drannor-after the PCs have faced attacks 
from Phaerimm, Alhoon, baatezu, and tanar'ri 
groups (see the "Myth Drannor Encounters "fa 
ble") alerted by the battle, who want the trea 
sure for themselves! Note the sheer volume of 
treasure; there is little chance that PCs can 
take much of it . . . and if they get it out of 
Myth Drannor, their adventures are just be 
ginning! 















Narlgathra's hoard consists of a heap of 
loose coinage, totalling 13,456 copper pieces, 
4,000 sp, and 38,000 gp. Mixed with the trea 
sure are 126 human skulls (from the dragon's 
meals; Narlgathra crunches and devours all 
the smaller bones of each victim). There are al 
so many more interesting items, detailed here 
after. 


FORGOTTEN REALMS Adventures should re 
place these with emeralds (of the same value). 


Gems: An everbright silver-plated suit of plate 
armor suitable for wear by a tall, thin human 
or an elf of very tall stature. It is inset with 22 
matching, very large, and very blue sapphires 
(each worth 2,000 gp). 

A small, octagonal carved ivory coffer (itself 
worth 25 gp) containing 30 banded purple 
cabochon-cut wonderstones (each worth 10 
gp); DMs lacking access to the FORGOTTEN 
REALMS (r) Adventures should replace these 
with eye agates (of the same value). 

A necklace of eight matching seawater- 
green beljurils ("flashstones"), each worth 
5,000 gp; DMs lacking access to the 


Potions: Eleven vials, all old, ornately- 
stoppered, and unlabelled; no two are alike in 
appearance (or contents), and they are widely 
scattered about the heap of treasure. They are 
potions of: clairaudience , climbing , healing , 
longevity , rainbow hues, speed, super 
heroism, ventriloquism, and water breathing, 
and oils of: disenchantment and fiery breath 
ing 


Scrolls: Three scrolls, all containing wizard 
spells, as follows: 1) charm monster, detect 
scrying, Evard's black tentacles; 2) fabricate, 
summon shadow, death fog, eyebite; 3) statue 


Magical items: Unless otherwise noted, these 
items are fully detailed in the DUNGEON 
MASTER(tm) Guide . 

A chest containing a helm of underwater 
action, 4 iron shoes (horseshoes of a zephyr ), 




















The W^Rra BeJoco 



and a smaller wooden box containing a rust 
monster tentacle whip. Not as effective as a liv 
ing rust monster's tentacle, it's a +4 weapon 
(doing ld2+4 damage per strike), and all 
metal it touches (by a wielder's successful at 
tack roll), rusts; enchanted metals have a base 
chance of 20% of being unaffected, plus 20% 
per "plus." 

A headless human skeleton wearing a pair of 
bracers of archery and a ring of the ram. 

A pair of bracers of brachiation. 

A severed, mummified hand wearing a ring 
of shocking grasp. 

A staff-mace. 

"Chalice," an intelligent longsword +4 
(ld8+4 damage) that glows with a deep, dim, 
blue radiance. It holds the soul of a female ad 
venturess of great skills and is romantic, spite 
ful, whimsical, and fun-loving. "She" is Int 17, 
CG, Ego 18, can speak (common, elvish, 
gnome, and halfling) and has telepathy. She 
can read languages and magical writings, and 
can detect large traps (10' radius), detect mag 
ic (10' radius), detect invisible objects (10' radi 
us), and heal once/day. 

Art Objects: Scattered throughout the trea 
sure heap (most of them completely buried) 
are the following items of value: 

A brazier of copper, 8' tall, with a bowl atop 
two twined (helix-pattern) stems. It bears a 
small enchantment: any fire lit within it can 
give forth flames of normal hue, green flames, 
or violet flames, at the will of the last being to 
touch it (the being must be within sight of the 
brazier to change the color of the flames by 
thought); worth 200 gp. 

A camping-chest (a locked, domed-lid box at 
tached to two lO'-long shoulder-poles, for ser 
vants to carry) of polished duskwood, carved 
in snarling faces and fanged mouths. The teeth 
and claws of real creatures have been inset in 
to these designs, and minor enchantments on 
the chest act as spell turning, preserve the 
chest, ward off damp, and make the claws 
clench and move by themselves; worth 250 gp. 

A coffer of carved shadowtop-wood with ag 
ate inlays. A rust removal enchantment re 


moves rust, discoloration, and tarnish from 
metal objects placed in it (and prevents them 
from forming); worth 470 gp (70 gp without 
the inlay). 

A face-mask of beaten, everbright copper, 3' 
tall, in the shape of a teardrop-diamond with 
eyeholes. It floats in front of a being's face, 
when released by a living hand, so as not to 
harm makeup. A word on its inner surface 
("LASACH"), when spoken aloud, causes it to 
sink down (feather fall until it reaches a sur 
face); worth 40 gp. 

A footstool made of a single piece of "dragon- 
fire amber" (not real amber, but volcanic glass 
fused and tinted orange by the breath weapon 
of a red dragon) to which has been affixed 
four magically-preserved griffin claws; worth 
500 gp or so if shrewdly sold (in Calimshan, 
Sembia, Suzail, or Waterdeep). 

An ivory statuette, 3' tall, of a winged man 
embracing a swan, glossy-polished and very 
lifelike: value 90 gp (double that if shrewdly 
sold in Calimshan, Sembia, Suzail, or Water- 
deep). 

A tomb-lid of heavy granite, 3' X 7 'X 4 " 
thick, carved in the likeness of a sleeping hu 
man knight in full armor. The eyes of the effi 
gy glow when a spell is cast or magical item is 
brought within 10' (a pearly-white color). 

If PCs carry off or clear aside all of the trea 
sure pile, they'll find a steel ring set into the 
floor: the handle of a trapdoor (the stone block 
the handle is affixed to weighs about 100 
pounds, but can be shifted aside) that covers a 
way down into another room below: the form 
er temple vault. 

At the DM's option, there could be more 
treasure below-or a rough tunnel where a 
Phaerimm or tanar'ri group broke into the 
vault, planning to take the treasure there and 
then mount an assault on the dragon's lair- 
only to be caught in another stasis field like the 
one in the shaft. Opening the trapdoor could 
break this field, so PCs find themselves facing 
an angry Phaerimm or tanar'ri group (see the 
"Myth Drannor Encounters Thble")! 














What We Face in DReanos_ 




For the DM 

This adventure features an alhoon (illithilich) 
and seven magical swords; please consider 
their effects on campaign play balance before 
running this adventure. It can occur any 
where on the surface in ruined Myth Drannor 
where the DM can find a courtyard (and locate 
a pool in it). 

Stony BackgRocind 

When Myth Drannor fell, one of the city's 
most powerful mages, the sorceress Jlacathra 
Vorn, was absent and unreachable, engaged 
on a long exploration of other planes. Frantic 
apprentices sent word by spell, item, and crea 
ture. At last (in a secret chest where she occa 
sionally picked up messages sent from Faerun) 
she found one of these doom-laden pleading 
notes. 

Not believing that mighty Myth Drannor 
could fall and suspecting the mention of 
nycaloth-led armies were a trifle exaggerated, 
she merely triggered a complex magic she'd 
been working on with the Circle of the Flame 
(a cabal of wizards dedicated to exploring the 
military uses of organized sorcery; some of 
them later trained the earliest war-wizards of 
Cormyr), and went on her way. No one knows 
what became of her; she never returned to 
Myth Drannor, and may not have made it back 
to Faerun. 

Jlacathra's magic was known as the Circle of 
Swords, and it took effect well after the city 
had been ruined, and most of its invaders had 
gone. It was designed to place magical weap 
ons in the hands of chosen, rightful defenders 
of the city in time of need, and so included a 
magical guardian (to prevent the swords fall 
ing into the wrong hands). That guardian, "the 
Face," has protected the swords since it and 
they appeared in the ruins, above a pool in a 
garden where fighting-men had gathered, and 
has been trying to find the warriors of valor it 
is supposed to give the swords to for a long, 
long time. 


The AdDentciRe 

After the PCs have reached the city and been 
in the ruins or encamped within a few miles of 
the city for at least two nights, the adventure 
begins with visions in their dreams on the 
third night (or whenever they sleep during the 
third day and thereafter). All PCs will receive 
the same image (hand each player separately, 
in secret, the following boxed text as a note, 
telling them they receive the vision thereon 
when they dream): 

A Face in the Mists of 
?Reams 


Out of swirling mists something approach 
es; two flames side by side-eyes, blazing 
eyes in a mask-like, hollow face. The face 
seems to see you; it draws nearer, and 
speaks: "Are you the ones? Are you the 
ones? Long indeed the swords sleep, and I 
wait, and evil grows stronger." Though the 
voice is a whisper, the echoes of the face's 
speech roll through the mist. It fixes you 
with those eyes of leaping flame, and asks 
again, oddly pleading, "Are you the ones?" 


After this mysterious vision, a second, similar 
encounter can occur whenever PCs are ex 
ploring the city. A mist rolls in from between 
ruined buildings, and the Face appears, asking 
the PCs the same question (read the boxed text 
aloud again). It will not answer queries, and 
fades away (followed by the mist), ignoring PC 
attacks, spells, or actions. 

The Face Abooe the Pool 

At any time after the PCs have seen the face 
while awake in Myth Drannor, they can come 
upon the following scene: 


In an open space ahead you see rubble, top 
pled statues, the withered, stunted trunks 














What We Face in Dreams_ 



of long-dead trees, and a large, circular 
dark pool. Floating above it is a dark, misty 
cloud. 


If the PCs approach more closely (the pool's wa 
ters are opaque and still, and it is 80' across), the 
mists part and dissipate, revealing the mask-like 
Face of their dreams. It stands about as tall as 
two men (120, and floats 20' above the waters of 
the pool. Around it, in midair, float seven glow 
ing swords, all unsheathed and facing outwards, 
their blades gleaming. 

The Face turns slightly to regard visible PCs 
(if all are present, it turns slightly, to scan them 
all), and asks again: 

"Are you the ones? Are you the ones? Long 
indeed the swords sleep, and I wait, and evil 
grows stronger." Though the voice is a whis 
per, the echoes of the face's speech rebound 
off the ruins around. It fixes you with its 
eyes of leaping flame, and asks again, plead 
ingly, "Are you the ones?" 


The Face is a magical construct guarding the 
swords. It can hear PCs speak, and can answer 
any queries they may have about the buildings 
and life in Myth Drannor (about the city in the 
time before it was ruined; PCs can ask where 
certain places are, and, using the details given 
on the cardsheet map of Myth Drannor "as it 
was" included in this set, the DM can give 
them answers). It won't answer any queries 
about its own name, purpose, or what the 
swords are, but simply remains silent. 

The Face asks the PCs who they are, and if it 
hears they are adventurers, or the word "war 
rior" or an equivalent, it asks, "Do you stand in 
defense of Myth Drannor?" 

If any PC answers "Yes" or any equivalent in 
the 3 rounds that follow (the Face turns and 
repeats the question to each PC), the Face does 
not attack, and one of the floating swords 
drifts over to each PC answering "yes;" they 
may safely and freely take the weapons. 

If no affirmative answer is given within 3 
rounds of its last asking, the Face says sadly, 


"You are not the ones," and launch an attack. 

The Floating Face is a unique construct. It can't 
move (save to sink straight down into the water) 
from its station 20' above the center of the pool, 
which is 80' across and 80' deep. The pool har 
bors no creatures or items; its waters drain all 
dweomer permanently from any magical item 
touching them (to power the Face's activities; the 
mists are formed by magical energy coursing be 
tween the pool and the guardian). 

All spells cast at the Face do it no harm and 
are absorbed to power it, with the exceptions 
of dispel magic (which does it 2d4 hp damage), 
and limited wish or wish (regardless of their 
wording or intended effect, they cause the 
Face and the swords to explode, hurling 7d6- 
damage lightning bolts in all directions; PCs 
within 100' must save vs. spells at -4 twice, to 
avoid being hit by one or two bolts, and can't 
avoid full damage from either bolt). 

Lightning spells and natural storm discharg 
es directed at the Face heal it of lost hp, restor 
ing the same number of hit points they would 
do as damage to a living creature. 

The Floating Face is AC4, has a THAC0 of 7, 
and has 46 hit points. Metal weapons of all 
sorts do it double their normal damage-if PCs 
can reach it to strike. 

The Face can unleash only one attack per 
round, but has unlimited daily uses of its two 
attacks. It emits either a spark shower, or ball 
lightning, as follows: 

Spark shower: a lO'-radius spherical cloud 
of sizzling purple sparks that moves outwards 
(at MV 18) up to 100' from the Face and then 
bursts, spraying sparks outwards into a 30'- 
radius spherical cloud. Creatures struck by 
the moving cloud (successful Face attack roll 
required) take 2dl0 hp damage (3d8 if wearing 
metal armor or carrying a metal weapon). Be 
ings in the area of the burst take 2d8 hp dam 
age (4d4 if wearing metal armor or carrying a 
metal weapon). 

Ball lightning: a single ball rolls out from the 
Face, at MV 20 (A); the Face can aim and redi 
rect it as a mage moves dancing lights about. 
The ball can travel up to 200' distant from the 














Face, and does any creature it touches (suc 
cessful Face attack roll required) 4dl2 hp dam 
age. If it misses, the Face can redirect the ball 
in a later round-as well as whatever attack is 
emitted in that round, so that it gets multiple 
attacks in this way. If the Face can't hit with 
the ball in 3 rounds, it dissipates harmlessly. 

The Face can use magical equivalents of 
dreamspeak , magic mouth, project image, and 
wizard eye to send its likeness to beings in the 
vicinity of Myth Drannor (both awake and 
dreaming). It can't reach beyond four miles 
outside the mythal, and can't "hear" any re 
plies made to it except within 200' of the pool. 

If PCs answer "yes" to the Face, and are 
deemed by it to be defenders of Myth Dran 
nor, it will from time to time send its image to 
them to deliver informative or warning mes 
sages while they are exploring Myth Drannor 
(warning of the approach of baatezu or 
tanar'ri, for example), and if they are injured 
and beset by foes, it will urge them to come to 
it. It can't heal them or help them get to the 


pool, but if enemies follow them there, the 
Face will fight to defend the PCs. 

The moment the PCs first pass out of range 
of the Face's powers after meeting it at the 
pool (either fleeing battle with it or having 
been deemed defenders of the city and given 
blades), the next encounter occurs. 

Altaooo Attack 

You hear the clattering sound of a dislodged 
stone somewhere nearby in the ruins, and 
then another, followed by grunting and 
what might be a muffled curse. Then other 
sounds come from another direction-and 
all around you, creatures are rising from 
the rubble, armed with clubs! You see two- 
head ettins, bugbears, and ogres . . . and 
then, flapping into view from behind a shat 
tered turret and diving towards you, come 
four gargoyles! 









































Wbat We Face in DRearas_ 



The attacking monsters are all mind- 
controlled servants of an Alhoon, who's been 
trying to get the swords for a long time, but 
hasn't dared challenge the Face's powers. This 
jllithilich has rivals, too: other Alhoon, with 
their own monster bands, who will be search 
ing for this Alhoon to see what he's up to, and 
will probably find and attack the PCs later! 

For the time being, however, the PCs will 
have their hands full disposing of this attack 
without bringing the attention of more mon 
sters who roam the ruins! (The DM should 
keep track of how long the battle goes on; af 
ter 14 rounds, a flight of four vrock [tanar'ri] 
shows up, and attacks any survivors; if PCs let 
any of these creatures escape, they'll report 
back to a tanar'ri group (see the "Myth Dran- 
nor Encounters Tkble"), and the group will ar 
rive at the battlefield 1 turn after the first 
vrock escaped the fray (vrock will flee when 
brought to 16 hp or less). Wise PCs will be long 
gone by then; the tanar'ri won't have the op 
portunity to hunt the PCs, because they'll be 
attacked in turn by a baatezu group (nearby 
PCs can watch the show in safety if they keep 
hidden). 

The first wave of attackers to reach the PCs 
are four ogres from the PCs' front left (at the 
same time as a volley of five hurled hammers- 
THACO 17, dmg ld4 + 1 each; struck spellcast- 
ers have spells ruined-from the bugbears hits 
the PCs from the right rear; a round later, five 
bugbears from the right rear reach the PCs, at 
the same time as the four gargoyles attack 
from above. 

TWo rounds later, two ogres arrive from the 
front right, followed two rounds after that by 
two ettins from the front. 

The alhoon directing them all watches from 
the safety of a ruined building nearby; PCs 
who think this concerted attack by different 
species of aggressive monsters (who fight PCs 
to the death, never fleeing) is odd, and say 
they're looking around for more, or a cause 
for this, are allowed intelligence checks. If suc 
cessful, they will notice the watching Alhoon. 
(Any player who states that his character is 
looking for a leader or general or someone 


watching the battle will automatically see the 
Alhoon.) The Alhoon will not emerge to attack 
the PCs; they will only end up fighting it (this 
time around!) if they chase after it. If the PCs 
win the battle and wipe out the Alhoon's 
troops, they will of course have made them 
selves a new enemy, who'll devote all its time 
to spying on them, seeking a chance to steal 
magical items or lead PCs into fights with oth 
er inhabitants of the city. 

There's also that rival Alhoon, with its pri 
vate monster army just waiting for their best 
chance to erupt out of the ruins, too . . . 

Of course, if the PCs did the right thing in 
their meeting with the Face, they'll have some 
shiny, powerful magic blades (detailed at the 
end of this adventure) to conduct all these bat 
tles with . . . 

Ogres (4): Int 8; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; HD 4 +1; 
hp 31, 30, 29, 26; THACO 17; If AT 1; Dmg ldlO 
or by weapon; SA +2 Str bonus on weapon 
damage (these ogres wield large clubs that do 
ld6 base damage); SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ L; ML 
treat as 20 (12); XP 175; MCI. 

Bugbears (5): Int 8 (each); AL CE; AC 5 (chain 
mail); MV 9; HD 3 +1; hp 22 (each); THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2d4 or by weapon (thrown war- 
hammers, as noted above; then use morning 
stars for 2d4 base dmg); SA +2 Str bonus on 
weapon attacks; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ L; ML treat 
as 20 (13); XP 120; MCI. 

Gargoyles (4): Int 7; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9, FI 15 
(C); HD 4 +4; hp 36, 32, 31, 30; THACO 17; #AT 
4; Dmg ld3 x 2 (claws), ld6 bite, ld4 horn; SA 
swoop (2 claws or one horn while flying; all 4 
attacks only when landed); SD +1 or better 
magic weapon needed to hit; MR Nil; SZ M; ML 
treat as 20 (11); XP 650; MC2. 

Ogres (2): Int 8; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; HD4 + 1; 
hp 31, 30, 29, 26; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg ldlO 
or by weapon; SA +2 Str bonus on weapon 
damage (these ogres wield two-handed swords 
that do ldlO base damage); SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ 
L; ML treat as 20 (12); XP 175; MCI. 














Ettins (Z): Int 7; AL CE; AC 3; MV 12; HD 10; 
hp 74 ; 68; THACO 12; #AT 2; Dmg ldlO, 2d6 or 
by weapon (two large spiked clubs, left arm 
does 2d8, right arm does 3d6); SA Nil; SD sur 
prised only on a 1 (ldlO); MR Nil; SZ H; ML 
treat as 20 (14); XP 3,000; MC2. 

Iryxreer Alhixarblot (Alhoon) (1): Int 18; 

AL NE; AC 5; MV 12; HD 8 +4; hp 66; THACO 
11; #AT 4 (mouth tentacles); Dmg ld4/round, 
bores to brain and kills in ld4 rds (tentacles 
are AC7, and withdraw to start over boring if 
hurt for 5 + hp dmg in a round); SA Mind 
blast, spell use; SD immune to charm, sleep, 
hold and related magics, holy water and most 
poisons, also can't be turned; MR 90%; SZ M; 
ML 18; XP 9,000; Menzoberranzan boxed set. 
This mind flayer lich is a W9 (spells 4,3,3,2,1: 
magic missile x 3 (5 ld4 +1 dmg missiles per 
spell), spider climb/blindness, flaming sphere, 
web/dispel magic, fireball, wraithform/ice 
storm, wall of fire/feeblemind (will use on 
most threatening PC spellcaster). 

Iryxreer is also the equivalent of a 7th level 
psionicist (see PHBR5, The Complete Psionics 
Handbook) with three disciplines (psychokinesis, 
psychoportation, telepathy), five sciences (deto 
nate, domination, probability travel, telekinesis, 
teleport), and fourteen devotions (animate ob 
ject, animate shadow, astral projection, ballistic 
attack, body equilibrium [its only psychometabo- 
lic power], conceal thoughts, control body, con 
trol flames, ESP, inertial barrier, inflict pain, 
levitation, mind thrust, post-hypnotic sugges 
tion). It has 348 PSPs, a Power Score of 18, often 
attacks with its mind thrust, and is using its dom 
ination to maintain a 'private army' of monsters 
(the creatures attacking the PCs) while in Myth 
Drannor. If PCs attack it, the Alhoon will use its 
inertial barrier as a defense, while employing its 
spells (resorting to wraithform to escape if it 
must, passing down through the wreckage into 
buried passages and chambers the PCs can't 
reach). 

Vrock (4): Int 14; AL CE; AC - 5; MV 12, Fl 18 
(C); HD 8; hp 66, 64, 62, 54; THACO 13; #AT 5; 
Dmg Id4/ld4/ld8/ld6 +7 Str bonus; SA spell 


like powers, spores, screech, first attack, 
dance of ruin; SD + 2 or better weapons to hit, 
never surprised; MR 70%; SZ L; ML 18; XP 
37,000; MC8. 

The CiRcle of ScooRds 

The seven floating swords guarded by the 
Face are all detailed in the DMG, and are: 

• a bastard sword with a glowing golden 
blade (a sun blade) [ld8 (or ldl2 vs. L) + 2, ld8 
(or ldl2 vs. L) +4 vs. evil targets, double dam 
age to beings from or linked to Negative Mate 
rial Plane, e.g. some undead; sunray power] 

• a long sword with a blue blade that often 
flickers with a dim blue light (a sword +1, + 2 
vs. magic-using and enchanted creatures) [ld8 
(or ldl2 vs. L) +1, ld8 (or ldl2 vs. L) +2 vs. 
spellcasters] 

• a broad sword with the 'wavy' etching of a 
snake curling down the blade (a sword +1, 
+ 3 vs. regenerating creatures) 2d4 (or ld6 +1 
vs. L) +1, 2d4 (or ld6 + l vs. L) +3 vs. trolls, 
beings wearing rings of regeneration, etc.) 

• a two-handed sword etched with a row of 
seven eyes down each side of the blade, and 
the word "Fang" cut into the pommel (a sword 
+ 1, +4 vs. reptiles) [ldlO (or 3d6 + l vs. L) 
+1, ldlO (or 3d6 +1 vs. L) + 4 vs. dragons, hy 
dras, snakes, wyverns, etc; so against a fang 
dragon, it would do 3d6 +5] 

• a long sword with a blue blade that hooks 
at the end, and an everbright silver hilt (a luck 
blade) [ld8 (or ldl2 vs. L) +1, gives user +1 
on all saving throws, and holds 4 wishes] 

• a short sword with a blade that glows 
with a constant bright white faerie fire (a 
short sword of quickness) [ld6 + 2 or ld8 + 2 
vs. L, always strikes first in a combat round] 

• a long sword of dull, non-reflective grey 
metal, hilt and blade all forged of one piece, 
with the words "I Strike Thue" on one side of 
the blade, and the word "Quickly" on the other 
(a sword +4, defender) [ld8 (or ldl2 vs. L) + 
variable: any part of the + 4 bonus can be used 
on attack roll or user's own AC, shifting these 
values for each combat round if desired] 


H 19 











For the DM 

This adventure can be set anywhere in Myth 
Drannor. Amend descriptions if it begins un 
derground. 

StORg/ BackgRoand 

It has been said before that a typical Harper 
has more daring (or reckless foolishness) than 
a dozen other folk put together. It shouldn't 
come as a surprise to learn that the moment 
the elves left, certain Harpers set out for Myth 
Drannor to seek sheet music, magical instru 
ments, or song-spells (in olden days, many 
grand halls had permanent magic mouth -like 
spells cast in certain rooms, that played tunes 
or sang songs when certain things were done 
or certain words spoken) that might have sur 
vived the centuries. 

One such Harper fell afoul of a doomsphere 
(ghost beholder), who kept him captive, inter 
rogating him to learn about events in the lands 
around (it plans to manipulate Sembian mer 
chants into causing wars and unrest all 
around the Inner Sea, for its own amusement). 

Luckily for this hapless Harper, Myth Dran 
nor has its own Harper haunting: an appari 
tion (not standard undead) sustained by the 
mythal, akin to a "mythal ghost." This is all that 
remains of an half-elven Harper, Maerylee 
Snowdown, who reached Myth Drannor be 
fore the elves left and died there. As she did in 
life, she always harps at sunset, serenading the 
sun as it goes down. 

She can appear (as a shadowy, wraith-like 
floating form that can gesture silently), and 
cause the sounds of her harping to be heard. 
Good-aligned PCs who bid her welcome, or 
who aid the Harper she leads them to in this 
adventure-especially if they are bards, have 
musical interests, or are Harpers-may discov 
er that Maerylee accompanies them when 
they leave Myth Drannor. All she can ever do 
is harp invisibly, and appear to PCs to warn or 
inform by gesture (including in their dreams), 
but some PCs will recognize that you can nev 


er have too many friends, and count her as 
one of them. She will gladly stand watch as a 
guardian, but can only make harping sounds 
to awaken sleeping PCs. 

The AdoentctRe 

At any time when PCs are exploring Myth 
Drannor and sunset occurs, a hauntingly 
beautiful harping can be heard (Maerylee will 
travel to encamped PCs as far as three miles 
distant from the mythal boundaries). The 
harping is music familiar to PCs if possible, re 
sponds to PC reactions (requests for particular 
tunes or silence, etc.), and sounds as if it is ap 
proaching, comes very close to the fire or PC 
camp, circles the PCs, and then goes away 
again. If PCs don't follow, it comes back, cir 
cles them individually, and then goes away, 
trying again and again to lead them. 

If PCs don't follow, this happens sunset after 
sunset. If PCs pursue the harping, the adven 
ture begins. If they are exploring the ruins of 
the city later and happen to come near the 
doomsphere's lair, the harping suddenly 
sounds all around them, trying to lead them in. 

The adventure starts when PCs come upon a 
large (12' tall and 14' across), irregular tunnel 
in the rubble of Myth Drannor. Its floor is 
strewn with bones (from all sorts of crea 
tures), and it slopes down, bending to and fro 
as it descends. 

PCs who follow it find it is home to several 
bone-white spiders that look undead (but 
aren't), and are harmless; they are squashed 
by any attack, but if they get a chance to bite a 
PC, or any of their body fluids contact a PC af 
ter one has been crushed, the PC will feel a 
burning numbness for some time. (No hit 
points are lost, but the DM can give a player a 
few anxious moments by ongoing mentions of 
changing-worsening-internal sensations.) 

After the PCs have descended for several 
rounds, they see a flickering light ahead, as if a 
fire is blazing. Then the tunnel opens out into 
a large area (a rough sphere about 60' across). 




20 


















A HaRp at Sanset 



Bones that Burin 


Facing you is a grinning human skeleton. It 
stands poised as warriors do before a duel, 
moving with catlike grace. Flames blaze 
along its shoulders and around its skull, and 
balls of fire crackle around its hands. Sud 
denly it collapses, its bones whirling around 
in a cloud of flames--and from that cloud a 
ball of fire is roaring towards you! 


This is a blazing bones (a new monster, de 
tailed in this set), set here by the doomsphere 
as a guardian. It has collapsed to generate a 
firestorm, sending a 6d6 hp-damage fireball at 
the PCs. Due to the speed of the racing fire and 
the confines of the tunnel, PCs can't avoid it 
(but are allowed the usual save for half dam 
age). 

A round later, the blazing bones has re 
formed, and stands blocking the tunnel that 
leads on out of the chamber. It will fight until 


destroyed; priests of high enough level can dis 
pel it, but the doomsphere's control prevents it 
from being turned. 

Blazing bones (1): Int 16 (insane); AL CE; AC 
5; MV12; HD 5+5; hp 44; THACO 15; #AT 2; 
Dmg ld4+2 X2 (ld4 to beings immune to 
fire); SA fire hurling (20' range, ld6 + 3 hp 
dmg balls; each hurl replaces a hand attack 
that round), firestorm (once every turn, 6d6 
fireball); SD immune to fire and heat damage, 
undead spell immunities, half damage from 
piercing weapons, water harms but not alco 
hol; MR Nil, but insanity plus doomsphere con 
trol makes PC mind-related spell attacks 
useless; SZ M; ML 20; XP 1,400; MD (this set). 

Any explosive spells used by PCs in the 
chamber will cause a partial ceiling collapse; 
all PCs must make a dexterity check or suffer 
3d4 points of damage from rubble falling from 
above; the blazing bones simply collapses (as it 
would to generate a firestorm) and escapes all 
damage. 




















If the PCs defeat the blazing bones, the 
doomsphere will know of their victory, and 
prepare itself. If they continue 80' down the 
descending, twisting, rough tunnel (through 
loose rubble) that leads out of the chamber, the 
next encounter occurs. 

From the chamber where the blazing bones 
stood on, the tunnel is so unstable that each 
round in which a PC is hurrying or fighting, he 
must make dexterity and intelligence checks. 
If either fails, the PC takes ld2 points of dam 
age from a falling piece of rubble, slips (MV re 
duced by 2 that round), and must make 
another dexterity check. If it fails, a collapse of 
ceiling (even roll) or floor (odd) occurs. All be 
ings within 10' of the PC must make a dexteri 
ty check or suffer 3d4 points of falling or 
impact-from-above damage; the PC triggering 
the collapse takes 4+2d4 points of damage. 
Ceiling collapses cause rubble to fall, but other 
rubble simply shifts into the space, and jams 
again; a hole to the surface won't normally be 
created. A PC fall through the floor is into 
blind pit cavities below, with no way out but to 
clamber back up into the tunnel. Any PC dig 
ging or spell use to create new tunnels or hol 
low out space in a certain direction will cause 
instant and constant collapses of both floor 
and ceiling; the DM should show PCs by these 
effects that persisting will end in entombing 
themselves. 

ARraed Danger* 


Something moves in the darkness ahead of 
you; something white. Again you see move 
ment, and then make out the shape of- 
human bones! A skeletal arm floats before 
you, a sword clutched in its hand. Then, be 
yond it, you see another . . . and another. 
The swords lift menacingly as the bony 
arms drift nearer. 


Three dread (a new undead monster detailed 
in this set) attack the PCs here. Set as guard 
ians by the doomsphere, they will attack until 
destroyed, unless turned (as shadows). 


Dread (3): Int 0; AL N; AC 6; MV 6, FI 14 (B), 
Sw 10, Jp 2; HD 3 + 3; hp 25 each; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld4 weaponless, ld6 with long 
swords; SA Nil; SD immune to charm, hold, 
sleep, shatter, disintegrate, and all mind- 
related and polymorph-related spells; MR Nil; 
SZ S; ML 20; XP 650; MD (this set). 

If PCs continue another 120' down the tun 
nel (the harping music that drew them here 
will be heard again briefly), the next encount 
er occurs. 

Morg Inviting Arzms 


More skeletal arms float ahead, drifting for 
ward as they raise their blades menacingly. 
You see flashes of white radiance, and their 
blades begin to glow. 


Another nine dread attack. Due to their en 
chantments, these are unturnable. They are 
armed with chill blades (fully detailed in the 
magical items chapter of the Campaign Guide 
in this set), which for the first 3 rounds of com 
bat will exhibit their extra powers (the rest of 
the time, they do ld8 hp longs word damage). 

When activated, a chill blade glows with a 
pale white radiance, and does an extra ld4 hp 
of damage per strike. Struck victims must save 
vs. spell or suffer attack roll penalties for the 
next hour: -1 for each strike of a chill blade 
that is not successfully saved against. If PCs 
seize one of these weapons and use it against a 
dread, each successful attack does it only 1 hp 
of damage-but these particular dread do not 
save to avoid fleeing, due to the doomsphere's 
control. 

Dread (3): Int 0; AL N; AC 6; MV 6, FI 14 (B), 
Sw 10, Jp 2; HD 3+3; hp 25 each; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld4 weaponless, ld6 with long 
swords; SA Nil; SD immune to charm, hold, 
sleep, shatter, disintegrate, and all mind- 
related and polymorph-related spells; MR Nil; 
SZ S; ML 20; XP 650; MD (this set). 

















A Hqrp at Sunset 



The Hall op Bones 

The tunnel runs on another 80' from where 
the guardian dread waited, and ends in a 
chamber that is a rough hemisphere 80' in di 
ameter and 40' high at the center. There is a 
20' diameter hole in its ceiling. The harping 
music will be heard loudly, moving towards 
that hole. 

The room is full of bones of all sorts. If PCs 
enter, and clamber among them, skeletons erupt 
out of the tangled bones, and attack (PCs who 
use destructive spells before entering can de 
stroy these undead without fighting them). They 
are tumable, and wield a variety of pointed 
bones and rusted-to-fragments weapons (all do 
ing ld6 damage). They fill the chamber, sur 
rounding PCs in a forest of moving bones. 

Skeletons (39): Int 0; AL N; AC 7; MV 12; HD 
1; hp 7 each; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; SD 
half damage from pointed/piercing weapons, 
immune to fear, sleep, charm, hold, and cold- 
based attacks; SZ M; ML 20; XP 65 each; MCI. 

The PCs must defeat the skeletons and find 
some way of reaching the hole. If they take a 
long time (more than 5 minutes of real time) 
conferring, resting, or doing something ar 
cane like searching the ruins for long spars or 
lashing together bones to make a ladder, the 
doomsphere attacks, aiming its eyestalk 
powers down through the hole. 

PCs trying to clamber up the curving ceiling of 
the chamber to the hole can do it in 3 rounds- 
unless a collapse occurs. Each round, every 
climbing PC must make intelligence and dexteri 
ty checks. If either fails, the PC slips, takes ld2 
hp damage from contact with rubble, and must 
also make another dexterity check. 

If it fails, the part of the ceiling the PC is 
clinging to falls away, smashing to the floor 
(PCs below must make dexterity checks to 
avoid, unless they've clearly stated a position 
out from underneath the climbing area). The 
falling PC and those trapped below (who failed 
their checks) take 4d4 damage, and other PCs 
within 20' of the landing rubble must make a 


dexterity check or suffer ld2 hp damage from 
flying rubble. 

If PCs use blasting spells up through the 
hole, the doomsphere won't be hit, and a 
ghostly figure will appear out of thin air: a 
beautiful, long-haired half-elven lady (the 
Harper apparition, Maerylee Snowdown) ges 
turing frantically at the PCs not to send any 
more magic. If they misinterpret and start to 
leave, the apparition points frantically up at 
the hole} trying to get them to go up there. 

(If PCs leave, she'll keep trying, reappearing 
often in the hours and days that follow.) 

Battle coftb tbe 
DooraspbeRe 

If PCs do get up through the hole, they'll find a 
90' diameter spherical chamber above, entire 
ly walled with loose rubble. 

Each round in which a PC in this chamber is 
hurrying or fighting, he must make dexterity 
and intelligence checks. If either fails, the PC 
slips (MV reduced by 2 that round), and must 
make another dexterity check. If it fails, a par 
tial floor collapse occurs, and the PC takes ld4 
points of damage from impact with sharp- 
edged rubble while lurching or stumbling into 
the small pit that has just appeared. 

At the beginning of the following round, the 
PC must make another dexterity check. If it 
fails, the floor collapses completely into the 
chamber below The triggering PC and all oth 
er non-flying beings within 10' fall with it, tak 
ing 4d4 hp damage from the landing and 
debris striking them PCs lV-20' distant must 
make a dexterity check or slide helplessly into 
the hole, falling onto the wreckage below for 
3d4 damage. 

Climbing PCs and spell effects can also cause 
ceiling collapses; for climbers, make a dexteri 
ty check each round. Failure means a fall and 
4d4 hp damage (all beings within 10' of the 
PC's landing must make a dexterity check or 
suffer 3d4 hp damage from rubble tumbling 
from above). The falling PC must also make a 
saving throw vs. death magic; if it fails, a floor 














A Hemp at Sunset 



collapse occurs (effects as given above). 

All PCs under a violent spell effect must 
make a dexterity check or suffer 3d4 hp dam 
age from rubble tumbling from above ; but 
spells won't trigger a full floor collapse (don't 
tell players this). 

On a ledge near the top of the chamber lies 
the doomsphere's treasure-including the cap 
tive, immobile Harper. 

Floating nearby, upside down so that its eye- 
stalks have free fire, is the doomsphere itself: a 
translucent spherical form with ten writhing 
eyestalks. It will bend all of its eyestalk powers 
on PCs either while they are hesitating below, 
or when they enter its lair, concentrating one 
eye continuously on each PC (until the PC falls, 
whereupon it tries animate dead on them to 
ascertain if they are dead). 

The doomsphere pounds PCs with its eye- 
stalk powers for 2 rounds, and then rolls over 
to hold them in the anti-magic ray cone of its 
central eye for 2 rounds while it surveys the 
damage and decides which PCs to hit with 
which eyestalk powers (it tries to use 
boneshatter, hold being, and undeath assault 
to disable all spellcasters). 

Then it rolls over again to let its eyestalks re 
new their attacks (PCs have a chance to use mag 
ic again). The doomsphere stays in this 
configuration until the PCs are all dead or flee, 
or it has been reduced to 25 hp or less: the mo 
ment this occurs, the doomsphere begins to sink 
towards the hole to leave the chamber, doing 
whatever it has to to get away (rolling over re 
peatedly to use its anti-magic and then its eye 
stalk attacks, for example). It tries to hide 
elsewhere in the ruins, shaking PC pursuit by 
leading them into the lair of a fang dragon it 
knows of, and then stalk them, hoping for a 
chance to attack them when they're weak or en 
gaged with other foes, and get its revenge. 

Doomsphere (1): Int 16; AL LE; AC - 1 
(body)/l (central eye)/6 (eyestalks); MV Fl 6 (A); 
HD 12; hp 96; THACO 9; #AT 1 + 10 special; 
Dmg 3d4 chill 'bite' plus save vs. death magic 
or lose 1 strength point for ld4 turns; SA eye 
stalk powers; SD anti-magic ray (central eye), 


hit only by +1 or better magic weapons or be 
ings w/6 + hit dice or magical powers, and has 
spell immunities; MR two saves (7 on a d20)/ 
round (only) allowed vs. magic; SZ M; ML 18; 
XP 16,000; MD (this set). 

This doomsphere can't be turned in its lair 
(otherwise, it turns as "Special"). Non-magical 
weapons pass through it as if it wasn't there 
(and only do damage if wielded by beings with 
6 or more hit dice or levels). It is immune to 
charm, cold-based, death (and related), disinte 
grate, electricity, enfeeblement, feeblemind, 
hold (and related), insanity, and sleep spells, 
and saves vs. all psionic attacks at 9 (d20). It 
can't speak, has a 90-degree-arc continual anti 
magic ray from its central eye whenever it de 
sires, and has the following eyestalk powers 
(all 110' long, 4' diameter beams; successful 
doomsphere attack roll required for strike): 
fear (as wand); slow (ld4 +1 rd. duration); chill 
ray (2d6 dmg, save for half, undead immune); 
hold being (one creature only, ld4 +1 rd. du 
ration, save to be slowed instead); enervation 
(as spell: drains ld4 levels for ld4 hours); ani 
mate dead (as W12); withering (2d8 + l dmg, 
makes limb useless for 4d4 turns); boneshatter 
(breaks internal bones for 3d6 hp dmg, then 
ld8 second rd; save to take 2d6 only; flying 
creatures lose 1 MC rating, reduces MV by half 
for all victims); flesh sear (3d8 hp dmg plus sys 
tem shock roll, also save vs. poison or lose 
sight, hearing, etc. senses for 3d8 turns, save 
allowed to take only ld4 hp dmg); undeath as 
sault (ld4 + l battering damage, make 
strength check or fall down/be driven back, 
forced fragile victim item saving throws). 

The Harper lies unmoving on the ledge 
throughout the encounter; he's unconscious 
and can't move, because the doomsphere has 
used its boneshatter power on him repeatedly 
(during interrogation, and then to disable him 
when it was alerted that intruders were com 
ing). It is suggested that the DM prepare a de 
tailed NPC before play, in case the Harper 
becomes a NPC companion or comrade-in- 
arms of the party (or use one of the NPCs in 
the Campaign Guide). 












For tbe DM 

This adventure involves a magical item in vari 
ous pieces; if assembled; they form one of the 
most powerful magical items any PC will ever 
wield; consider carefully effects on long-term 
campaign play of introducing even one of 
these pieces (it is suggested that PCs who take 
any parts of the Arm out of Myth Drannor at 
tract immediate attention from the Zhentarim, 
the Cult of the Dragon, and various thieves' 
guilds); keeping ownership of the item should 
be a constant struggle. 

Rulers over any civilized land the PCs reside 
in will certainly insist that the Arm pieces be 
surrendered to the authorities, if a PC ever re 
veals their presence by any public use of them. 
PCs must hastily leave the territory or give in 
(adroit diplomacy may win lands, titles, or 
wealth in return for the item-but the DM 
should make it clear that wearing even a com 
plete power arm won't help an outlaw who 
faces an army several thousand strong, sup 
ported by archmages fearful of their own 
safety, and determined to destroy this threat 
to the safety of the land! 

S tony BackgRoaod 

The Arm of Valor is detailed at the end of this 
adventure; its making is told of there. Long be 
fore Myth Drannor was threatened, its 
makers (a cabal of wizards who used the col 
lective sigil of a bird whose wings are made up 
of four-pointed stars) decided to hide its vari 
ous pieces in guarded areas in Myth Drannor, 
to prevent their falling into unscrupulous 
hands. 

Much time passed; some of the wizards died 
or were killed, others moved their abodes to 
other planes, and still others went elsewhere 
in Faerun to pursue their own interests. 

When the city was attacked, only the piece 
(the rerebrace, which held a note telling 
where all the other pieces were) that had been 
left in the hands of a prominent wizard could 
be found. He sent his most trusted servant to 


gather up the pieces, in the fray, and bring 
them back to him. Unfortunately, the servant 
did not survive to reach even the first piece-a 
building, shattered by magic, fell on him-and 
the various pieces of the Arm were forgotten 
and missed by both the defenders and the vic 
torious, looting attackers. They remain in the 
now-open ruins for the PCs to find-if some 
one (or something) else doesn't get there 
first. . . 

Tbe AdoeotaRe 

The DM should introduce this adventure be 
fore the PCs first visit Lovers' Glade, The 
House of Song, Shaundakul's Throne, and the 
street intersection of Sixstar (#7, 14,16, and 80 
on the map of Myth Drannor As It Was, includ 
ed on its own cardsheet in this set). The adven 
ture can begin anywhere in Myth Drannor 
where there is rubble and at least one col 
lapsed building. 

At that ruined site, one of the PCs will dis 
cover a satchel beside the tilted blocks of a 
fallen building. It is crumbling to dust, and is 
still clutched in the grasp of a skeletal arm- 
whose long-dead owner is crushed to powder 
under those tilted blocks. 

In the satchel is a tubular piece of adaman 
tine, with straps and buckles, looking fresh 
and hew. It is the rerebrace of the Arm (one of 
the five pieces; its powers are described at the 
end of this adventure, and should be consulted 
by the DM immediately), and on the part of its 
surface that faces the wearer's chest when it is 
worn is a square outline, where a latched pan 
el can be swung open to reveal a storage niche 
beneath (four inches by six by two deep), con 
taining a square of parchment: a note. 

On one side of the note is a symbol (a bird 
whose wings are made up of four-pointed 
stars), and the other bears the words (in flow 
ing Thorass): 

None worthy, so hidden let it be. If the city 
stands in peril, look: Where wind is wor 
shipped. Where song lives. Where six are one. 
Where love is worship. 


fp 1 

jf 25 















The PCs may never follow up on this find, or 
may become embroiled in other things, but 
the places the clues lead to will be as partially 
described in this adventure. They are, in the 
order referred to in the note (their numbers 
match the map of 'Myth Drannor as It Was"): 
Shaundakul's Throne (temple; #16) 

The House of Song (temple of Oghma; #14) 
the intersection of Sixstar (#80) 

Lovers' Glade (temple of Sune; #7) 

Although they are dealt with hereafter in 
the order given on the note, PCs need not find 
the pieces of the Arm in any order. If PCs lose 
the note or the rerebrace before going after 
the Arm and let some time pass, some other 
power in Myth Drannor will hunt down the 
Arm pieces and get most of them first. 

lo SbaandakaJ's TUr one 

This temple can be entered via three broad, 
semicircular steps and a grand set of arched 
double doDrs (now hanging askew; they'll fall 
at the slightest touch) that face down the 
Street of the Evening Star. 

Just inside the doors, at a lower level than 
the main worship area of the temple (broad 
steps, inside, lead up to that area, where the 
windghosts lurk and the magic-dead area is), is 
an entry hall: a circular room 90' across. 

The room is full of tumbled rubble (MV rate 
for all non-flying creatures reduced to half 
while in this room) from where the ceiling 
above fell. PCs will see a dark trail (of recently- 
spilled, mixed blood and water) leading from a 
side door of the room (on the east) to an area 
where the rubble has been disturbed. 

Something has been dug up in the disturbed 
area: a chest, now broken open. Something 
large, wet, and dead lies beside the chest-and 
above it hovers an agitated-looking creature 
that looks like a flying cone, with the large ba 
se as its head: a head with fangs and an angry 
look, as it fixes glowing eyes on you. You hear 
the moan of winds as it rushes through the air 
towards you! 

The flying creature is a windghost (a new 


monster detailed in this set); it will attack PCs 
who remain in the room. If PCs hastily retreat 
down the temple steps, it will merely roar an 
grily past and sweep back up over the temple 
roof. If PCs then return to the room, it will 
roar down the interior steps and attack in ear 
nest. 

Windghost (l): Int 16; AL LN; AC -2; MV Fl 
18 (B); HD 9 + 9; hp 66; THACO 11; #AT 1 + 
special; Dmg 3d4 (bite); SA windsong, swoop, 
swallow whole; SD magic shift, regenerates 1 
hp/turn, immune to mind-reading and influ 
encing magic; MR 44% (also applies vs. psi- 
onics); SZ H (conical, 8' diameter tapering to 
length of 24'); ML 20; XP 12,000; MD (this set). 

The swoop attack from aloft adds ld4 +1 hp 
to the windghost's bite damage (once done, it 
must break off fighting for 1 round to go aloft 
before swooping again). If a swoop attack on 
M-sized prey is a 19 or 20 (d20) roll, it swallows 
whole, for 2d6 points of corrosive damage 
plus forced item saving throws vs. acid (victim 
must make strength, dexterity, and intelli 
gence checks: if Int check fails, victim is blind 
ed (-4 to hit) for ld6 +1 rounds, can't attack 
until spat out; if prey has ready weapon and 
makes all 3 checks, can attack when inside for 
full weapon damage). 

The windsong ability requires 2 or more 
windghosts within 90' of each other; it will on 
ly occur if PCs venture on up into the temple. 
It is a drone that makes spellcasting, hearing 
normal speech, reading, and concentration im 
possible; effects begin ld2 rounds after drone 
begins, and then last ld8 rounds; when ended, 
can't begin again for ld4 + 3 rounds. 

The warp dweomer ability allows the 
windghost to relocate spell areas of effect 
(usually back at the caster): roll ldl2. If 3 or 
less, attempt fails (spell takes normal effect); if 
4-6, area of effect shifted in random direction 
(use Scatter Diagram on DMG p. 63), 4d20 feet 
distant; on a roll of 7 + windghost can put area 
of effect exactly where it wants (i.e. on caster 
or companions). 

PCs who only take one glimpse into the room 


1 26 '• 
li LA. 













The Afim of Valorz 




(not returning after the windghost's charge) 
will see all they need to. The dead creature is a 
scrag (marine troll); PCs whoVe seen trolls or 
scrags before will recognize it. They'll also see 
the chest is now empty, and that the dark trail 
is fresh. 

If PCs press on into the temple, they'll find 
no treasure, but will run into 9 other 
windghosts [statistics identical to the first] 
who will attack-and if they do certain things 
during the battle, they may inadvertently sum 
mon Shaundakul; for details of his avatar, see 
the relevant chapter in the Campaign Guide . 

PCs who go along the outside of the temple 
building will soon find the dark trail coming 
out a side door, and going into a house next 
door (to the east). Inside, the trail crosses a 
dusty, rubble-choked room (strewn with 
gnawed bones, but otherwise uninteresting) 
and heads down stairs into darkness. 

PCs who follow will find themselves in a 
40'X40' room with a marble floor. A 20'- 
diameter circular bathing-pool is in the center 


of the room, surrounded by a square of stout 
stone pillars. The trail leads to the black, still 
waters of the pool, and the room seems other 
wise empty. 

The pool goes down 70' in a cylindrical 
shaft, and is home to a hezrou tanar'ri and five 
surviving freshwater scrags, w r ho serve it. If 
PCs cast spells into the pool, all of them come 
up out of it, raging, to the attack (lightning 
magic does normal damage to the scrags, and 
none to the hezrou). The pool waters are 
opaque; PCs can't see creatures even two feet 
below the surface without introducing a light 
source. 

The scrags can breathe out of water for 1 
hour; the hezrou orders them to attack and 
pursue the human intruders. 

Freshwater Scrags (5): Int 7; AL CE; AC 2; 
MV 3, Sw 12; HD 6 + 12; hp 56, 53, 50, 49, 41 
(wounded); THACO 13, #AT 3; Dmg ld4 X 2 
(claws), ld8 + 8 (bite); SA hurl rubble stones 
(20' range, do ld8 points of damage, stationary 






































when throwing); SD regenerate: 3 rounds af 
ter first wounded, starts regenerating 3 hp/ 
round if immersed in fresh water (fire and 
acid do permanent damage); MR Nil; SZ L; ML 
16; XP 1,400; MCI ("Troll"). 

Hezrou (1): Int 14; AL CE; AC -6; MV 12; HD 
9; hp 72; THACO 11; #AT 3; Dmg ld6 X2 
(claws), 4d4 (bite); SA spell-like powers, bear 
hug (if both claws hit one target in same 
round: target can't attack, can only escape by 
making successful half-strength check or if 
hezrou dealt 20 + hp dmg in a round, hugged 
target takes 2d4 hp damage/rd, plus hezrou's 
bite always hits), stench (beings within 10' 
save vs. paralyzation or be helpless-if save 
made, stench still causes -2 on attack and ini 
tiative); SD +2 or better weapons to hit, take 
only half damage from non-magical attack 
forms (e.g. gases) and magical fire and cold, 
immune to poison, fire, and lightning/ electric 
ity; MR 70%; SZ L; ML 18; XP 39,000; MC8 
("T&nar'ri, True"). 

The spell-like powers of the hezrou are usa 
ble at will, one at a time and once per round, as 
a W9. They are: animate object blink, dark 
ness , 15' radius, duo-dimension (3 times/day), 
infravision, produce flame, protection from 
normal missiles, summon insects, unholy 
word, wall of fire. The mythal prevents this 
hezrou from gating in anything or teleporting 
without error, and it's stopped trying. 

The pauldron part of the Arm (its powers 
are detailed at the end of this adventure) lies at 
the bottom of the pool among a litter of bones, 
some fallen stone carvings, and scattered trea 
sure (taken from the temple chest and scrag 
victims): a dagger +2 and 16 pp, 340 gp, 22 sp, 
and 8 cp. Everything on the bottom is tangled 
together and stained with the blood of the 
wounded scrag (who left the trail); PCs diving 
for treasure without a light source or magic 
allowing them to breathe underwater are only 
17% likely to grab anything of value (34% if us 
ing light of some sort). 


Id the House of Song 

The House of Song is described in the tour of 
the city found in the "Myth Drannor Tbday" 
chapter of the Campaign Guide ; the DM is free 
to detail this temple, whose mid- and lower- 
levels may well still hold spell scrolls, and oth 
er beneficial items. 

Levitating stone steps (i.e. blocks floating in 
midair, without railings or supports) curl up 
wards in a wide, open spiral. This eerie but 
quite safe (as long as no PC is foolish enough to 
cast dispel magic on a step, which will cause it 
to plummet to the floor below) flight rises up a 
central well of the temple to link the various 
floors. If PCs reach the uppermost level, they'll 
find most of the rooms smashed and open to 
the sky, despoiled by creatures who have en 
tered, and by the rains and snows of hundreds 
of passing seasons. A short flight of steps lead 
up to what was once a topmost turret, but is 
now a shattered, open-to-the-sky perch. 

A wyvern has made its lair in this shattered, 
roofless tower. It hears and smells the PCs ap 
proaching, and silently takes wing to perch on 
another, nearby height of the temple. When 
PCs appear on the floor of its lair, it pounces, 
snatching or clawing at prey and directing its 
tail sting at one PC as it beats its wings and cir 
cles aloft, only to swoop down again. 

The floor of the lair is thick with rubble and 
human bones, among them are several shat 
tered, weathered (useless) weapons, a plain 
brass ring (non-magical), and a rotting purse 
holding 6 gp, 14 sp, and 8 cp. If PCs dig 
through the rubble (it's heaped about a foot 
deep, towards the edges of the walls), they'll 
find the couter part of the Arm (its powers are 
detailed at the end of this adventure). 

Wyvern (1): Int 7; AL NE; AC 3; MV 6, FI 24 
(E); HD 7 + 7; hp 52; THACO 13; #AT 2; Dmg 
2d8 (bite), ld6 + poison (tail sting); SA poison; 
SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ G; ML 14; XP 2,000; MCI. 

The wyvern's tail is very mobile (can reach 
targets in front), and stung victims must save 
or die (wyvern immune to its own poison). 













When aloft, it can swoop to claw opponents 
(ld6 damage x 2) and snatch them (automati 
cally if talon does damage). In the air, it bites 
and stings snatched prey at +4 to hit, each 
round, until prey motionless (then it lands to 
feast). 

At Sixston 

If PCs approach this intersection, they'll see a 
weird eel-like thing spinning in midair; its 
body held in an upright spiral. 

This is a lythlyx (a new monster, detailed in 
this set), and it won't attack PCs unless they at 
tack it. If they approach without hurling spells 
or missiles, they'll be able to see an octagonal 
paving stone in the center of the street that's 
tilted askew, as if it's been lifted and not set 
back down properly (exactly what happened). 

Lythlyx (l): Int 10; AL LN; AC 1; MV 6, Fl 12 
(A), Sw 8; HD 5 +6; hp 44; THACO 15; #AT 1; 
Dmg 2d6 body flailing or 3d6 constriction or 
ld4/rd/mouth (up to 20 mouths) blood drain; 
SA psionics (only uses if reduced to 22 hp or 
less, or psionics used within 90'); SD ingested 
blood heals: 1 hp regained per 4 taken in, im 
mune to charm, command, fear, hold monster, 
and sleep; MR Nil; SZ H; ML16 ; XP 2,000; MD 
(this set). 

Lythlyx psionics (see PHBR5, The Complete 
Psionics Handbook) are as follows: Level 9, 
Power Score 10, 210 PSPs, attacks PsC, II, MT, 
PB/defenses M-, IF, TW, and has: animate ob 
ject, body equilibrium, control flames, control 
sound, create object, create sound, molecular 
agitation, summon planar creature, suspend 
animation, telempathic projection, teleport, 
teleport trigger. 

PCs can duck right under the lythlyx (its tail 
is about 4' off the ground), and if they don't 
touch it (it regards a touch as an attack), it ig 
nores them as they heave and slide the stone 
block aside, and go below-down a 3' diame 
ter, 20'-deep (4d6 hp falling damage) shaft that 
becomes one end wall of a 40' high room. 

This chamber under the street is part of a 


nearby building, and is 50' wide X 300' long, 
running southwest to join a larger chamber 
(the cellar of a shattered apartment building, 
full of rubble, fallen beams, and cracked pil 
lars). 

In the chamber is a field of force that emits a 
pearly-white glow; unmoving in the center of 
it is a snake-like, many-legged creature with 
two horns on its head, deep blue scales (band 
ed with gray-brown): a behir. 

This reptile is frozen; though its eyes are 
staring at the PCs, it's been caught in a stasis 
trap. It won't move or respond to PC actions. 

Around and around the field flaps a small, 
black bat-like thing with glowing eyes. It's a 
magebane (a new monster detailed in this set), 
and is fascinated by the field. If PCs start 
spellcasting, it'll dart around behind the field. 

If any PC enters the field, throws or reaches 
an item into it, or casts any spell on, through, 
or into it, the field vanishes and the behir at 
tacks. 

Any magical activity on the part of any PC 
will cause the magebane to become invisible 
and sidle over to attach itself to the PC (see its 
entry in this set). 

The behir was caught in the magic when it 
found its way into this chamber (via the cellar), 
seeking food, and swallowed a small snake. 
The snake was coiled around the vambrace 
part of the Arm, and it's now in the behir's 
stomach! The monster will have to be cut open 
to get it (or burned, which won't harm the 
vambrace). If the vambrace is examined (its 
powers are detailed at the end of this adven 
ture), a storage space identical to the one the 
rerebrace has will be found (containing an 
identical note). There's nothing else of value in 
the behir's body (except its body parts, valued 
by mages and alchemists). 

Magebane (1): Int 7; AL CN; AC 1 (5 if visible: 
i.e. to chosen caster); MV 6, Fl 13 (A); HD 2 + 4; 
hp 14; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 +2; SA tail 
(2d4), magic drain; SD immune to psionics, can 
see magical auras to 160' distant; MR 75% 
(100% to chosen spellcaster); SZ S; ML 14; XP; 
MD (this set). Attaches itself to spellcaster; 


E 


ij 














when spell cast, is 60% likely to drain energy: 
roll ld6, on a 1 or 2, drains all energy (spell 
lost), on 3+ only part energy drained (spell 
has minimum duration or damage, or spell tar 
gets get +2 on saves). Spells of 7+ level are 
partially drained only on a 1 on a d6 roll, and 
never wholly drained. 

Behir (1): Int 7; AL NE; AC 4; MV 15; HD 12; 
hp 81; THACO 9; #AT 2 or 7; Dmg 2d4 (bite)/ 
ld4 +1 (squeeze; if successful, next round is 
2d4 bite plus ld6 x 6 from talons); SA light 
ning bolt every 10 rounds (20' long, 24 hp 
damage, save for half), swallows whole (on 
natural attack roll of 20); SD immune to elec 
tricity, poison; MR Nil; SZ G; ML 15; XP 10,000; 
MCI. 

Prey swallowed whole by the behir lose one- 
sixth of their hp (round down) until dead at 
end of the 6th round; is digested 12 turns later, 
totally gone. Prey can attack behir from with 
in; it is AC 7, but prey is - 1 on 1st round at 
tacks, -2 on second round, "3 on third 
round, et cetera. 

Iiq LooeRs' Glade 

This beautiful spot is described in the Cam 
paign Guide. PCs arriving here will find a small 
pit where something has been dug up: three 
chests, which a hobgoblin is loading onto a 
wooden sledge hitched to three bone nagas (a 
new monster detailed in this set), under the 
watchful eye of the master of them all, a dark 
naga. 

The large, locked strongchests contain 1,000 
gp each. Lying buried atop them was the 
gauntlet part of the Arm, now worn by the 
hobgoblin (who will use its powers-detailed 
below-against the PCs!). The bone nagas can 
easily unhitch themselves from the sledge to 
fight. The naga will hurl lightning bolts at the 
PCs the moment its becomes aware of their 
presence, and will compel its slaves the bone 
nagas to do so, too. 

Hobgoblin (l): Int 10; AL LE; AC 5 (chain 


mail); MV 9; HD 1 +1; hp 9; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6 +1 (mace); SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ 
M; ML 12; XP 35; MCI. 

Bone nagas (3): Int 16; AL LE; AC 6; MV 11; 
HD 7; hp 54, 51, 46; THACO 13; #AT 2; Dmg 
ld4 (bite) + save vs. spell or lose ld4 more and 
1 Strength point for 1 hour/3d4 (tail sting); SA 
Spell use as W6 (4,2,2); SD immune to poison, 
acid, gases, charm, death, hold, sleep, and 
cold-based magic; MR Nil; SZ L; ML 20; XP 
4,000; MD (this set). Spells carried; magic mis 
sile X 4 /blindness, flaming sphere/lightning 
bolt X 2. 

Dark naga (1): Int 16; AL LE; AC 6; MV 13; 
HD 9; hp 69; THACO 11; #AT 2; Dmg ld4 (bite; 
can't use if casting spell)/2d4 (sting; save vs. 
poison or take ld2 more damage plus sleep in 
1 round, for 2d4 rounds); SA spell use as a W6 
(4,2,2); SD +2 on saves vs. enchantment/ 
charm spells, have constant 80' range ESP; MR 
Nil; SZ L; ML 15; XP 4,000; FR13. Spells car 
ried: magic missile X 4 /blindness, flaming 
sphere!lightning bolt X2. 

Concluding the 
A doenturze 

Depending on how openly and swiftly the PCs 
have sought and gained the various pieces of 
the Arm, some of the intelligent inhabitants of 
the city (Alhoon, baatezu, nagara, Phaerimm, 
and tanar'ri are the most likely, but also per 
haps some of the NPC adventuring bands) may 
become aware that the PCs are on to some 
thing, and may begin stalking them, waiting 
for a chance to steal the magic or attack the 
PCs when they've been weakened by a hard 
fight. 

Beleaguered PCs can seek the aid of the Face 
or the warning and guiding of the Harper appa 
rition, if they've already participated in those 
two adventures; if not, a baelnom or one of the 
loner NPCs could prove an ally, if the PCs are 
wise enough to approach them properly. 













Tbe Arid op VaJoR 


isn ; teleporting tar away (despite the mythal), 
and draining life-force from the wearer. The 


This unique, priceless item is one of only two 
known surviving power arms in the Realms 
(the other is in the keeping of the Heralds, in 
the Herald's Holdfast)-and only certain senior 
Harpers and powerful mages such as Elmin- 
ster (and now, you) know about the other one. 

Made by a cabal of mighty archmages when 
Myth Drannor was strong, the Arm of Valor 
takes the form of five pieces of full plate ar 
mor, of adamantine. Tbgether, the five pieces 
form a complete covering for one arm (they al 
ter size and shape to fit either arm of any M- 
sized creature). There is no known way to 
dispel the magic instilled in them, and they 
make all item saving throws at 1 on a d20 (if 
three or more pieces are worn together, the 
>£*" - drops to 0 or automatic). 

Whenever any power of any piece of the 
Arm is used, there is a 01% chance (not cumu 
lative) that one of the pieces involved will van- 


power that was being used takes full effect, 
but the wearer suffers ldl2 hp damage, and 
permanently loses an additional ld2 hit points. 

The Arm was designed for use by champi 
ons defending Myth Drannor; its powers over 
ride all mythal powers and aren't subject to 
wild magic. 

The pieces are a gauntlet, vambrace (tubular 
covering for the forearm), couter (a winged, 
hinged elbow-covering), rerebrace (tubular 
cover for the upper arm), and pauldron (shoul 
der cover, flaring up into a raised half-collar, 
and over to cover much of the chest and shoul 
der blade at the back). The rerebrace and vam 
brace each contain small (4" X 6" X2" deep) 
storage compartments that latch shut, and are 
shielded against magical scrying. 

Whenever any piece of the Arm is first 
brought to within 200' of another, both pieces 
glow with a blue-white faerie fire for 4 rounds 
(this won't happen again until the two pieces are 



















put farther apart, and then moved together 
again; it doesn't happen continuously when the 
pieces are touching or much closer together). 

When worn f worn together" in this context 
means strapped onto the same arm of the 
same being), the pieces of armor confer vari 
ous powers on the wearer, as follows: 

Gauntlet: immunity to charm, hold, and sleep 
(and all related spells and psionics) 
punch does ld4 +1 points of damage, and can 
strike creatures only hit by +1 or better 
magical weapons 

power smash (3d6 points of damage plus 
" crushing blow" saving throw forced on 
items struck) once per turn 

Vambrace: feather fall at will 
jump once per turn (ranges as spell, but safe 
landing guaranteed) 

all weapons wielded solely by the arm wearing 
the vambrace strike at +1 damage 
immunity to ESP spells, spell-like powers, and 
psionics 

wearer can see invisible beings and objects 
(30' range) 

Couter: dimension door once/turn 
airy water (creates airy water automatically 
around wearer, whenever being is sub 
merged) 

wearer can see dweomers within 30' and dis 
tinguish between spell areas of effect, en 
chanted beings, and permanent magical 
auras 

Rerebrace: temporarily raises the status of all 
weapons wielded by the wearer to the sta 
tus of + 2 magical weapons ( + 2 on dam 
age and attack rolls, and can be used to hit 
beings struck only by magic weapons; 
these bonuses are not cumulative with 
magic weapon bonuses [i.e. a +1 sword 
would be raised to +2, but a +2 sword 
doesn't become +4], but are cumulative 
with vambrace bonus, if both pieces worn 
together) 

immunity to all illusion/phantasm spells 


Pauldron: wearer's Armor Class improved by 
4 points 

immunity to all enchantment/charm spells 
force blast once per turn (does 3d4 points of 
damage, neither has nor uses charges, ad 
ditional impact powers as for a ring of the 
ram; see p. 149 of the DUNGEON 
MASTER(tm) Guide) 

The Arm of Valor also has some cumulative 
additional powers, conferred only by combi 
nations of various pieces worn together, as fol 
lows: 

Ip Any Tc do Pieces Woriq 
Together 

immunity from all polymorph attacks 
all system shock rolls automatically success 
ful 

immunity from magical fear 
a bonus of +1 on all saving throws 

Ip Gauntlet;, Vambnace, and 
Couten Worn TogetheR; 

dispel magic (90' range, 90-degree-arc ray, 
once per turn) 

magic missile (5 missiles, ld4 + l points of 
damage each, one missile from each digit of 
gauntlet, one unleashment per turn, of all 
five missiles in the same round) 
immunity from petrification 

Ip Entire A urn (all 5 pieces) 
Worn Together: 

additional + 2 bonus on all saving throws 
fly (4 rounds maximum burst, one use per 
turn) 

minor creation once/day 
wizard eye once/day 

If all five pieces of the Arm are worn togeth 
er, they fuse into a flexible but solidly-linked 
unit that can be readily separated at the wear 
er's will, but not otherwise. 



32 VI 











Encircling Wood Encounter Table 

>e this table when PCs are in the woods around ruined Myth Drannor, within 3 miles or so of the city up 
to the boundaries of the Mythal 
jthin the Mythal, use the Myth Drannor Encounter Tbble; when in the Elven Court a greater distance 
from the city, use the "Ttemperate Forest" 
able from Volume 1 of the Monstrous Compendium, or the more extensive tables in Appendix 2 of the 
module FRC2/Curse of the Azure Bonds). 
3oil ld20 and consult this table; the numbers in brackets are the numbers of each monsters that appear, 
and asterisks denote new monsters 
r.troduced in this boxed set. 

When an adventuring band is indicated, the DM must choose classes, levels, alignments, gear, and 
general state of health {they could be only a 
-andful of survivors who've escaped from the city); see The Campaign Guide in this set for more on 
'Adventuring Bands" 


0 1. Gargoyles (ld4 +1) MC2 

09. Adventuring Band (ld4 + 3 in number; see above) 

15. Adventuring Band (ld4 + 3 in number; see above) 

:x2. Erinyes (1) MC8 

or: Elven Patrol (elf, grey) (3d4) MCI 

or: Elven Patrol (elf, greyl (3d4) MCI 

j 3. Hezrou [tanar'rij (ld6) MC8 

10. TTolls (ldl2) MCI 

16. Ores (3d4) MCI + Ettins (ld3) MC2 

>4. Spinagons (baatezu) (ld6) MC8 

11. Feystag (1 or ld2) * 

17. Feystag (1 or ld2) * 

j,S. Owlbears (1 or 2d4) MCI 

or: Elven Patrol (elf, grey] (3d4) MCI 

or: Adventuring Band (ld4 + 3 in number; see above) 

Ores (3d4) MCI 

12. Wolves (3d4) MCI 

18. Manes [tanar'ril (2d6) MC8 

¦|*. Wolves (3d4) MCI 

or. Wolfwere (ld3) MCI 

19. Gargoyles (ld4 +1) MC2 

or: Wolfwere (ld3) MCI 

13. Stags, Wild (ld4) MC4 

20. Lythlyx (1) * 

3*. Hobgoblins (2d6) MCI 

or: Bears, Brown (ld6) MCI 

14. Hobgoblins (2d8) MCI 

or: DM's choice (Special) 


Myth Drannor Treasures Table 

When random determination of treasure in Myth Drannor is desired, roll ld!2 and consult the table 
below. Information in 
square brackets is for DMs who do not have access to the FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Adventures 
sourcebook. 

01. Roll twice on the Ruins Rubble Thble (provided on a cardsheet in this set). 

02. A glowing (with white faerie fire; ends if broken) glass tube containing a clear, heavy, inedible oil in 
which float ld6 
rubies (base value 5,000 gp each), ld4 emeralds (base value 5,000 gp each), and ld6 sapphires (base 
value 5,000 gp each); all 
are smooth-cut. The ends of the tube are stoppered with stone that seems to have been melted to make 
a seal. (This may have 
been mere adornment or may have had some ceremonial or social use; it may at the DM's option bear 
other enchantments.) 
03. A small brass casting of a dragon, with seagreen gemstone eyes the size of a small man's fist, that 
flash brilliantly from 
time to time (they are beljurils, value 5,000 gp each) [or emeralds under a modified faerie fire 
enchantment that will be 
broken by removing them from the dragon]. 

04. An intricately-carved ivory coffer (bearing a scene of a couatl flying among windswept trees, while a 
gigantic serpent 
coils among their trunks below), itself worth 60 gp (more if sold as a relic of Myth Drannor). It latches 
but does not lock, and 
contains 76 platinum pieces: the teardrop-shaped Myth Drannan coins known as "sheelba." 

05. An ornamental helm or skullcap of brass plated with electrum, and adorned with gems. It is worth 
perhaps 25 gp for the 
electrum. The gems are 16 small orblens (1,000 gp each) and, as dangling ear-pendants, six large red 
tears (worth 2,000 gp 
each) [16 sapphires, worth 1,000 gp each, and 6 large briolette-cut fire opals, worth 2,000 gp each]. 

06. A belt-of-coins, constructed as part of a sword-harness; attached to an electrum-plated, everbright-
treated scabbard 
(empty; itself worth 70-90 gp, depending on if sold broken up for materials, or intact). The belt of coins 
is a strip of magically- 
preserved black dragonhide, to which have been bonded 44 gold pieces (Myth Drannan "lionars," which 
bear the rising sun 
on one face, and a snarling lion's head on the other), 4 silver pieces (the everbright axehead-shaped 
Myth Drannan coins 
known as "tsargan"), and 2 platinum pieces (sheelba). A coin can only be removed by touching it with a 
piece of the same 
metal (a modern-day silver, gold, or platinum piece, respectively, will serve). These were worn by Myth 
Drannans while 
traveling, to provide ready change; their scabbards typically held swords of dancing, that would float in 
the air standing 
guard over an owner who was "making change." 

07. A coin-yoke: a hollow, hoop-shaped brass tube worn around the neck, both ends hanging down the 
chest of the owner 
(the collar was padded, but time has reduced this to crumbling remnants). Both ends of the tube have 
lockable sliding caps; if 
one is pivoted open with its thumb-lever, coins can fall out. Such yokes were typically loaded with silver 
coins at one end or 
arm, and gold coins in the other (the two arms are actually a continuous tube). When found, such yokes 
rarely retain their 
locks, and contain 3d20 silver pieces (tsargan) and 2dl2 gold pieces (lionars). 

08. A storage tube. Chests were used for monetary storage in Myth Drannor, but more common were 6' 
long tubes of heavy 
metal with swinging carry-handles and locking caps at each end. Designed to be carried by two men, 
they could be loosely 
loaded with 300 gp, or crammed with painstaking packing (usually using paper coin rolls) with 450 gp. 
Loose loading was 
more common. Such tubes could be readily strapped to riding animals or the undersides of caravan-
wagons, and stored in 
vaults.but Myth Drannans were fond of hiding them in hollow pillars; many have been been revealed by 
the breakage or 
toppling of the pillars, in the ruin of the city. 

09. An owl-lamp. Many halls and passages in the city were lit by chased and intricately-worked cast 
brass owl lamps, many of 
them permanently affixed to pedestals or wall-ledges. These were hollow sculptures of owls, and could 
be hooded (turned to 
a dark state) by sliding panels behind the owl's eyes and its fluted sides by means of pull-chains. Inside 
are 6" diameter 
glowing globes [glass con tinual light globes; if the glass breaks, the magic is broken]. 

10. A goblet. Most Myth Drannan drinking-vessels were tinted, fluted teardrop-shaped glass things of 
great beauty and fragil 
ity, and were broken long ago. A few were clear-sealed everbright silver or gold-plated metal goblets, 
most tall and thin, with 
hand-holds between the base and the bowl that were studded with gems. These are usually amaratha 
(shieldstone) inlays 
(20,000 gp-worth); enough to absorb up to 36 hp-worth of electrical damage (being conumed in the 
process; see pg. 139 of the 
FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Adventures hardbound) [polished jacinth inlays, worth 25,000 gp or more, or 
rows of tiny opals (6d4 
in number, each worth 1,000 gp)]. 

11. A dagger with a single moonstone (value 50 gp; glows faintly in moonlight) set in its hilt; the blade is 
plated with 
everbright silver, and will not loose its edge. 

12. A seat carved from a single huge gemstone (DM's choice of type and value; should be 25,000 gp or 
more). 










Mythal Magic Table 

The Campaign Guide in this set contains a chapter on "The Mythal," which 
outlines many secret powers of the network of living magic that surrounds 
Myth Drannor. 

Another secret power of the mythal may or may not function, as a DM 
desires; its effects are so powerful that they can damage a campaign whose 
power level or style of play makes it unsuited to lasting magical chaos affect 
ing player characters. 

The DM is advised to read the information on this cardsheet before using 
it in play, and decide whether or not to allow mythal ripple effects into his 
campaign. "Ripples" are so-called because they are usually visible as shim 
mering pulses racing through the air, outwards from their cause. 

Ripple Causes 

Mythal ripples may occur whenever one of the following events takes place 
somewhere within the mythal (on rolls of 1, 2, 11, and 12 on ldl2): 

• Magic is used in a magic-strong area (see "The Mythal") 

• Magic specifically prohibited or augmented by the mythal is cast or 
launched 

• A spellcasting being dies 

• A magical item is activated (whether or not its power is twisted or ne 
gated by the mythal) 


Ripple Effects 

Ripples radiate outwards spherically (DMs must always remember that "up" 
and "down" are included) through solid matter of all sorts, until they dissi 
pate 90' distant from their cause. 

All magical items within 90' of the source of a ripple must make a saving 
throw against magical fire. Items that survive gain ld4 charges from the 
ripple (or are unaffected, if they are not charged). Items that succumb lose 
their magic, with a 5 in 6 chance of discharging any function once (odd roll) 
or twice (even roll) in a random direction. 

All beings within 90' of the cause of a ripple must make a constitution 
check. If this fails, the being instantly loses ldl2 hit points, and is rendered 
instantly unconscious for ld4 +1 rounds, falling and dropping all held items 
(fragile item saving throws may apply). 

If this check succeeds, the being benefits from the mythal, and must make 
an intelligence check. If that succeeds, the being instantly feels what's hap 
pened (learning in detail what personal changes the mythal has wrought) 
and is otherwise unaffected. If it fails, the being is confused (as per the spell 
confusion) for 3d4 days or until magically cured. 

Mythal Beoep'ts 

A being who is aided by a mythal ripple involuntarily gains one of the fol 
lowing benefits. The change is instant and permanent, and is not dependent 



on race or class. The DM can roll ld20 and consult the following table, or 
devise new results (the gaining of wings or extra limbs, for example) and use 
them instead. 


01 : being gains ld8 hp 

02: being gains 60-yard infravision 

03: a randomly-chosen ability score is raised by one point to a maximum of 
18. If an ability is already at this point, select another to be augmented. 

04: being gains +1 on all saves versus disease (including mummy rot, lycan- 
thropy, and other special conditions and afflictions). 

05: being gains +1 on all saves versus magic 

06: being gains the ability to detect magic once per day 

07: being gains the ability to detect invisibility once per day 

08: being gains the ability to spider climb once per day 

09: being gains the ability to feather fall once per day 

10: being gains the ability to use water breathing once per day (2d4 hours 

duration; extent not known to user until the ability ceases to function) 

11: being gains the ability to use dancing lights once per day 
12: being gains the ability to Jump once per day 
13: being gains the ability to use wizard eye once every 20 days 
14: being gains the ability to use wraithform once every 20 days 
15: being gains immunity to all cold-based damage (both exposure and mag 
ical forms, such as cold-based spells, chill touch and related undead attacks) 
16: being gains the ability to use true seeing once every 20 days (lasts 1 
turn) 

17: being can by silent act of will call on a personal immunity to all normal 
weapons (including missiles, but not any part of a living or unliving being's 
body) for ld4 +1 rounds once per day (determine duration randomly; not 
known to user) 

18: being gains the ability to use heal (on self or another touched being) 
once every 20 days 

19: being gains the ability to regenerate lost limbs and body parts, regain 
ing 2d4 +4 hit points per night (ability is lost if being dies) 

20: being gains the ability to dimension door once per 20 days, up to 200 
yards; solid barriers to destination are "felt" when will is gathered to use 
ability) 


Ripple Rebounds 

A side effect accompanying some ripples is an outbreak of wild magic (con 
sult the "Wild Mythal Magic T&ble" in the Campaign Guide and on the inside 
cover of Myth Drannan Adventures for what occurs). Such surges occur on 
a roll of 1, 2, or 12 on ldl2. (After the initial dl2 roll that determined the 
ripple's occurrence, roll again.) This chance increases to 1, 2, 3, 4, 11, and 12 
if the cause of the ripple is a magical battle (for these purposes, "magical 
battle" means casting at least two spells and/or using at least two magical 
item charges). 



Ruins Rabble Table 

This table can be used by the DM whenever PCs dig in the rubble of Myth 
Drannor, or search shattered chambers in the ruins. Roll 2dl2, and consult 
the table that follows. From time to time the DM should alter or augment 
the entries here to prevent PC familiarity. 

02: Float chariot (chariot enchanted to levitate and be pulled by horses); its 
magic is failing and the wood is beginning to rot. 

03 : A life-size elven male head ; expertly sculpted from marble (broken off a 
statue that's elsewhere). 

04 : Small, scattered bones-the remains of a bird, squirrel, or other small 
animal, eaten fairly recently. 

05 : The electrum-plated hilt of a sword whose blade has rusted completely 
away. If grasped and commanded ("Light!" or "Now!"), it can be made to 
radiate a continuous faerie fire- until it is told to cease ("Quench!", "Dark 
ness!", or "Now!" again). 

06 : A key, of everbright (shining, tarnish-free) silver, inset with three moon 
stones each worth 50 gp; in darkness, they glow faintly blue-white. The key 
opened a lock, now lost. 

07 : A discarded, rotting boot, of human size and for a left foot. It's of Dale- 
lands style and is recent work. 

08 : A small, ornately-stoppered blue glass bottle, blown in the shape of an 
upward-curving ox horn. 

09 : A twelve-sided gaming die, made of gold. Worth 6 gp, it is finer work 
than most dice available today. 

10 : A belt buckle (no belt) of everbright silver, worked in the shape of a 
leaping horse. When grasped and willed to work, it can enact a feather fall 
on up to 400 lbs. to which it is connected, twice per day. 

11: An earring, consisting of a pendant gem set on gold wire. The gem is an 
emerald, jacinth, or sapphire (values as given in the DMG), or if the DM has 
access to the FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Adventures rulebook, it can be a bel- 
juril, king's tear, or shieldstone (amaratha). 

12: A mummified human hand, severed below the wrist. On one of its 
gnarled, blackened fingers is a plain brass ring, a magical ring whose failing 
enchantments have left it only two powers: the ability to rise straight up, 
slowly and steadily, from 1' to 70' when touched and willed to do so; and the 
ability to flash with a distinctive golden radiance when willed to do so by a 
living being within 90' who has previously touched the ring. 

13: Small, scattered bones-the remains of a bird, squirrel, or other small 
animal, eaten fairly recently. 

14 : A black, hairy spider as large as a man's fist scuttles hurriedly away. It 
turns and bites if attacked. 

Spider: AC 8; MV 14, Wb 9; HD 1-1; hp 6; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1 
(bite); SA poison (save at -2 or take 1-point penalties to attack rolls and 
AC plus a 3-point dexterity check penalty, starting 1 round after the 
bite, lasting ld4 + l rounds); AL N; SZ T (6" or less diameter); XP 65; 
FOR2. 



15 : A discarded black eyepatch. In good condition, with a single platinum 
piece web-sewn onto the inside of the patch. 

16 : The rotting, crumbling remnant of a wooden strut or piece of post, too 
far gone to tell what type of wood it is, or what it was used for. 

17: Something slimy and rotting that was once a plant or piece of fruit, but 
was smashed or partially eaten, and has since collapsed into reeking ruin. 
18: A cracked a ay jug, its contents long ago dried up. Still usable for scoop 
ing or drinking but not for carrying anything. Its green, once-fine glazing 
bears a skillfully-painted elven maiden in a flowing gown, raising a spar 
kling glass into the air in a toast. 

19 : A black hook. This is a heavy metal grappling hook, wisps of dried fiber 
remaining where the rope was once tied to the eye at the hind end. It has 
been smeared with tar to inhibit rust (and this coating has worked well). It 
will still bear up to 500 lbs, and can be wielded one-handed as a weapon 
dealing ld4 +1 points of damage to S- or M-sized foes, and ld3 points of 
damage to L-sized or larger creatures. 

20: Three black, hairy spiders as large as a man's fist scuttle hurriedly 
away. They turn and bite if attacked. 

Spiders (3): AC 8; MV 14, Wb 9; HD 1-1; hp 6; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1 
(bite); SA poison (save at - 2 or take 1-point penalties to attack rolls and 
AC plus a 3-point dexterity check penalty, starting 1 round after the 
bite, lasting ld4 + l rounds); AL N; SZ T (6" or less diameter); XP 65; 
FOR2. When more than one spider bites the same victim, they swarm 
onto the victim's body, biting in subsequent rounds at +5 to hit. 

21: A rotting, disintegrating belt pouch of Myth Drannan styling (fluted, 
shaped leather, slim and deep). For contents, roll ld4: 1) six black glass mar 
bles; 2) ld8 sp, ld6 ep, and ldl2 gp; 3) 2d4 rusting iron nails and a rotten 
ball of string, useless except as tinder; 4) roll again, even = a horn spoon (a 
Murlynd's spoon , detailed in the DMG, and odd = ld8 + l gems, DM's 
choice of size, types, and condition. 

22: A battered metal box (wooden, covered with beaten steel) containing a 
book. At the DM's option, it can be either a ledger or family history so eaten 
by damp as to be illegible, or a wizard's spellbook containing 4d6 spells, or a 
manual of golems (detailed in the DMG). 

23: A broken piece of polished shell that was once part of the handle of a 
comb, mirror, small belt knife, or hand-lyre. 

24: A blackened, chipped ivory coffer, which contains four dust-covered 
glass vials (all are stoppered and sealed potions of healing ; each restores 
2d4 +2 hit points of damage if imbibed in a single round). 



The LlaiQdlatb 

The Llundlath is the resting place of the half-elven Llundlar clan, and is typical of many crypts that lie 
dark and forgotten beneath Myth Drannor-the final resting places of moderately wealthy Myth Dran- 
nan families, their descendants scattered (or their lines exterminated) in the fall of Myth Drannor. These 
places generally lie far beneath the proud houses of the families to which they belonged, carved by 
magic from solid rock. They abound with strange, now-failing magics, which have kept safe some sur 
prising finds (such as wine and cheese still drinkable after a thousand years). Every Myth Drannan 
family of this much wealth had or could hire wizards whose power would command great respect to 
day; the Llundlars were not particularly important (more influential families usually had magically hid 
den or guarded entrances to their crypts, and far more magical guardians). 

The Llundlar family arms was two intertwined "dove-verns" (doves with long, thin, wyvern-like snaky 
tails), their tails linked in a helix before separating again to frame an empty circle within which various 
things were inscribed, such as names of deceased family members, when the device was used on tombs. 
Above their linked tails, the two dove-verns are flying upward, one headed to the dexter, the other to 
the 
sinister. The family arms appears as a bas-relief carving on the stone walls of every room in the crvpt. 

Many rooms have been left empty in this and the other crypts, to leave room for DM additions and to 
simulate the effects of earlier plunderers and the desperate carrying away of family treasures that went 
on in the last days of Myth Drannor's existence. In every room the family arms is carved somewhere, 
and 
the Myth Drannans were also fond of hiding-places concealed inside hollow stone pillars; behind sliding 
stone blocks and pieces of carvings; and beneath floors or the wall-blocks at the corners of rooms. In any 
empty chamber these might be found-probably empty (ready for PC use), but sometimes holding spell 
scrolls and/or magical potions that PCs desperately need to survive. 

K eg 

1. Entry shaft: 200' descent from lower cellars of ruined house. Equipped with grabirons of magically 
shaped stone, crumbling 60' from the bottom but nowhere else. Scattered bones (ore and human) lie at 
the bottom. 

2. Vault: Massive stone door, magically sealed (must be forced). Inside, a stone plinth topped by an 
ornate, spired coffer of ivory with a translucent lid formed of thin slabs of polished quartz crystal. 












Intact, worth perhaps 90 gp (if sold in Sembia or Waterdeep). Contents (all visible): a circlet worked into 
many spires, but without gems (could be hidden under a tall hat or a hood-magical, equal to bracers of 
defense , AC2) and a pair of gauntlets (equal to a ring of the ram). Both must be worn by the same being 
for the magic to function. The gauntlets are unchargable, and crumble after 26 charges are used. Con 
sult the DMG for details. 

The coffer is guarded by a stone golem and by a spell. The golem (MCI, "Golem'') has the usual 60 hp 
and powers; it stands just inside the door to the room. It tries to block anyone leaving the room with the 
coffer or any of its contents. 

The spell is Evard's black tentacles , triggered to lash out from the coffer whenever it is disturbed in 
any wav (unless a now-forgotten code word is spoken, to hold the spell trigger in abeyance). Detailed in 
the PHB, it lasts 14 hours, has 16 tentacles, and covers the entire room. The tentacles will not grasp, 
hinder, or harm the golem. 

3. Guardroom: Another stone golem stands in this room. It attacks and pursues anyone who opens a 
door into the room or enters, unless a now-forgotten code word is uttered. See MCI. 

4. Wine Cellar: This room is filled with rotten lumps of crumbling fiber, cloaked in foul-smelling but 
harmless mold growths: former wine casks. If PCs paw and wade through all of this stuff to the back 
corner of the chamber, they discover something solid under the mush: an iron strongbox that is just 
beginning to rust. Once hidden in a false (dry) wine cask, whose lighter-hued fibers still enshroud it, it 
held the Llundlar daily money supply: 86 gp, 34 sp, and 22 cp. 

5. Wine Cellar: This room is lined with sloping wooden shelves, where precious bottles of the finest 
wines the Llundlars could afford rested. Unfortunately, raiding ores reached this room at some point. 
One of them, a blackened, contorted corpse, lies on the floor, a bottle in one hand. The snake that laired 
within it-and lunged forth to sink its fangs into his throat, killing him-is still stretched out of the 
bottle, 
transfixed on the dagger clutched in one of the ore's bony hands. 

The ore's fellows drank or smashed everything in the room; the only thing of value is hidden in the 
hollow heel of the dead ore's right boot (a ruby worth 6,000 gp). 

6: Funeral Chamber: Here, on a now-empty central stone block decorated with the family arms, dead 
Llundlars lav in state while the Rituals of Passing were performed. The room is lit by softly-flickering, 
continual faerie fire magics, cast on the empty torch-brackets that line the walls. 

7. Children's Crypt: The room is full of the tiny coffins of Llundlar children. 

8. Llundlar Crypt: This room is crammed with coffins. Although each family member was buried with 
a favorite item, none of these pipes, paintings, or other bric-a-brac qualifies as treasure. 

9. Wizards' Crypt: Here family members well versed in the magical arts were laid to rest. If anything 
of value was with them, it's gone now-but the spells that preserve them and light the chamber with 
eerie, faint green dancing lights also make their coffins float in the air, drifting slowly around the room 
in an endless dance. 

10. Founder's Crypt: The walls of this room are carved with ornate, curlicued scenes of a handsome 
man greeting elves, leading a hunt of elves in a forest, battling a dragon, and holding a crown high in 
triumph. Here sleeps Arlagust Llundlar, who established the family, in a huge, canopied stone coffin 
surrounded by those of his three elven wives. There is nothing of value here; no treasure is left, and the 
first time any coffin is touched, a faint, ghostly, and sad human voice will be heard, saying: "Go. Leave us 
in peace." 

11. Treasure Chamber: This room contains seven 5'-tall, cylindrical earthen jars, each holding 1,000 
gp. Resting atop them is a cane. Its handle unscrews, revealing the shaft to be a brass tube lined with 
rotting velvet, holding 49 clear, pale, aqua cabochon zircons. These gemstones are of a matched size; 
sold 
together, they command 85 gp each, but otherwise are worth 55 gp each. 

12. Floating Head: A larger-than-life, disembodied human head floats 6' off the ground here, facing 
down the corridor. It remains motionless until attacked or spoken to, whereupon it says, "Come ve again 
to disturb my sleep? Ask then, questions three-and then no more trouble me! ' 

The head answers three PC questions on the spot, and fades away with a mocking laugh upon answer 
ing the third. (If PCs don't use up all three queries, the head remains.) It is impervious to spells or physi 
cal attacks, can be passed through as if not present, and does not respond to questions about who it is 
or 
was (such questions do not count against the limit of three). The DM should use its deep, ringing voice 
to 
answer PC queries as fully as possible. The head can identify magical items unerringly. 



The NeiRdRecR?/pt 

Only a shell remains of the once-proud seat of the half-elven family of Xeirdre, known for its warriors 
and 
explorers. A hole in the floor of the high-ceilinged central hall of riven House Neirdre is the only way 
down into 
the crvpt. The hall is the lair of many gargoyles, choked with the rubble of fallen galleries and rooms 
above. 
The circular stair that led down into the crvpt has collapsed, taking the floor around with it, leaving a 
large, 
irregular hole in one corner of the hall. The dotted lines in Area # 1 mark the edges of this hole (the PCs' 
entry 
into the crypt). 

Key 

1. Entry Chamber: Fifty feet below the rift in the ceiling, on the floor of this chamber, lies the rubble of 
the 
collapsed circular stone stair, decorated with the bones of creatures torn apart by the gargoyles for 
sport. One 
of them was a human adventurer, whose ring of the ram (see DMG) didn't save him. Appearing as a 
plain brass 
ring, it still adorns one skeletal finger of his hand-which has become a 4-hp crawling claw (detailed in 
MC3) 
still able to use the ring's powers. (DMs lacking this source material can make up their own variant 
"animated 
skeletal hand 1 ' monster.) 

2. Webs: This room is filled with a thick network of spiderwebs, crisscrossing the room in a maze of 
strands 
that hang heavy and gray with dust. Whatever spider spun them is long gone, but in the webs hang 
cocoons 
holding the dessicated husks of blood-drained victims, or the skulls and bony arms frozen in the act of 
futile 
battle. Shattered bones litter the floor, and among them lie nine daggers, a mace, a hand axe, and four 
darts. 
Still caught in the webs, clutched in a skeletal hand, is a staff of striking (see DMG), and in a cocoon is 
the husk 
of a wizard whose backpack still holds a spellbook (spells of the DM's choice). 

3. Guardian: In this room stands a guardian that looks like a giant crab with a human torso rising from it. 
Despite its appearance, this thing is identical to an iron golem (see MCI, "Golem") in powers and 
statistics 
(including its 80 hp). Activated by the opening of the door, it lumbers out, pursuing all living beings in 
the crypt, 
fighting until it or they are destroyed. 

4. Poker, Anyone?: A driftglobe (a glowing ball of light that floats at the shoulder of the last being to 
touch it) 
hangs above a table here. On the table are scattered the round playing cards favored in Myth Drannor, 
as well 
as stacks of coins and handfuls of gems used in wagering (DM's choice of amount and type of wealth). 
Four 
chairs are drawn up around the table, and small, untidy heaps of collapsed bone on each seat mark 
where the 
card-players met their deaths. 








5. Armory: Collapsed wooden racks here once held many weapons. Rust and wood-borers have done 
their 
work, but seven spears, two battle-axes, nine short swords, eleven broad swords, and four long swords 
can be 
salvaged in usable condition from the wreckage. 

6. Guardian: In this room stands a guardian that looks like a giant crab with a human torso rising from it. 
Despite its appearance, this thing is identical to an iron golem (see MCI, "Golem") in powers and 
statistics 
(including its 80 hp). Activated by the opening of the door, it lumbers out, pursuing all living beings in 
the crypt, 
fighting until it or they are destroyed. 

7. Corpse: The sprawled body of an adventurer lies face-down in this room, atop the gargoyle she 
shattered 
with blows of the mace +2 that is still clutched in her skeletal hand (at the DM's option, she may have 
other 
salvageable treasure). 

8. Mausoleum: This room contains the tumbled, shattered remains of several stone caskets that were 
under 
construction atop several stout trestle tables when Myth Drannor fell-until time ate away the strength 
of the 
wooden cribs and boards beneath them, and everything slipped to the floor. Several stone-carving tools 
here 
can be salvaged, and the broken stone lids of the coffins can be readily broken up for use as missiles. 
The 
coffins themselves survived the fall, and can be used as very heavy storage troughs. 

9. Quarry: This room holds stone blocks of various sizes for use in the making of stone coffins and the 
repair 
of stonework throughout House Neirdre. 

10. Transport: This room contains a levitating platform glowing with yellow faerie fire, a thing akin to a 
sideless, heavy-duty float chariot, used to carry stone blocks around during construction work. For 
adventur 
ers, this translates to up to one ton of treasure and other "found objects." It is of electrum-clad wood, 
six inches 
thick, four feet across, and eight feet long; its failing enchantments can raise or lower it 10 feet per 
round (up to 
14' if empty). 

11. Refuge: This room is lit and warmed magically; furnished with a floating bed and a decanter of 
endless 
water, it was set up as a refuge or hideaway deep under House Neirdre-and can still so serve 
admirably, 
despite passing ages. 

12. Spoils: In this room lie the shattered remains of an iron "crab-golem" (see areas 3 and 6), tangled pu 
with 
the bones of an owlbear, a giant of some sort whose skull sports horns, and several hobgoblins-all or 
whom 
the guardian undoubtedly slew before being destroyed. 

13. The Hall of the Fallen: This long hall is lit by a warm orange continual faerie fire, which illuminates 
the 
carved busts of family members that sit on ledges at head-level down both walls. Below each head is an 
identify 
ing stone (with name, birth and death dates) and sometimes an inscription such as: 

Fairest of men He crafted such music 

Yet torn of heart that it sings still, not 

Warrior mighty forgotten by those too young 

A breed apart to ever know his sweet, 

sweet harping 

The remains of the Neirdre family members are buried upright, under simple stones marked with a 
circlet set 
with three stars (the family rune), under each bust. Nothing occurs here if PCs don't disturb the remains, 
but if 
they dig up any corpses searching for treasure, all prove to be undead, in the following rotation: zombie; 
a 
wight armed with a glowing mace + 3; wraith; zombie; skeleton; wight; repeat cycle, until PCs cease to 
disturb 
the remains or all 24 family members have been dug up. All monsters are detailed in MCI, and the 
magical 
mace should be replaced with other items (not all magical) as the rotation continues. 

14. Crypt: The remains of Neirdre family wizards lie in large stone coffins here, around the walls of the 
room. 
A foot-long, tapering stick of wood floats in a shaft of radiance at the center of this room. It is a wand 
that had 
lost all of its own magic-and if it is touched (or any of the coffins are opened), a wizshade (as detailed 
in MC7) 
appears. (DMs lacking this reference should replace it with an apparition of a wizard that saves versus 
spell-as 
a 9th-level wizard-each round to avoid vanishing. Each round it remains, it casts a random spell at the 
PCs; roll 
ld8 for level, roll ld20 for spell. 

15. Junk: This room is full of the useless wreckage of furniture that was old and discarded when Myth 
Dran 
nor was bustling and proud. The massive canopied couches and lounges here crumble into dust with 
little 
sighing sounds if they are touched. 

16. More furniture wreckage (see area 15). A trunk in this room contains two full suits of magically 
preserved, 
magnificent fluted and chased full plate armor (worth 15,000 gp each, even if not sold as Myth Drannan; 
add 
10,000 gp to price if sold to collector interested in the city). 

17. Still more furniture wreckage (see area 15). 

18. Yet more furniture wreckage (see area 15). 

19. Closet: A wardrobe full of rotting and mold-encrusted, once-fine gowns and robes. A half-dozen or 
more 
bear preservative spells, and are in good enough condition to sell to collectors or shopkeepers who 
don't intend 
to wear them, at pieces of 100 gp plus (ldl2 x 10) gp. Hidden among them is a cloak of the manta ray 
(see DMG). 
20 - 22 . Even more furniture wreckage (see Area 15). In Room 22, one piece is really a 10-HD killer 
mimic (see 
MC2). 

23. This room contains a chair, a table (sporting an empty wine bottle), and wardrobe (inside is a coffer 
contain 
ing 12 stoppered vials; all are potions of extra-healing, see DMG). 




DRagondciRk TocoeR 

A few burnt-out walls are all that remain of this school of wizardry above ground, PCs exploring this will 
find a stone door that opens onto a circular stone stair that leads down-and then ends, broken off, 
above darkness (60' above the floor of Area #1). 

Keg: 

1. Entry Hall: This room is empty except for a statuette (about 1' high, of some dark, smooth stone) that 
lies on the floor. It bears a minor enchantment that makes it stay with, or return to, any being that 
touches it. (For example, a PC examines it but leaves it behind; it is waiting for her several rooms later. If 
ignored again, the process is repeated, including the statuette turning up underfoot during a monster 
encounter, where PCs can slip on it.) This following link is broken by the death of the PC. 

The statuette absorbs all spells cast on it to power itself, but is harmless and has no hidden powers or 
uses-unless the DM wants to reveal one later. Perhaps it really is an imprisoned, polymorphed, evil and 
aggressive archmage, a kirin, a tanar'ri, or a powerful magical item. 

2. Study: The walls of this room are lined with the sagging remnants of bookshelves, on which lie 
crumbling, illegible heaps of whitish paste and powder that were once piles of parchment sheets con 
taining school records, agreements, and ledgers. Among them is a small, dark box containing a deck of 
illusions (see DMG). 

3. This room contains a horned, toadlike slimy thing squatting atop a large chest. This hissing monster 
attacks all intruders; it is a 33-hp least guardian daemon (see MC2), and the chest contains the bones of 
the adventurers it has slain, along with their gear: two salvageable suits of chainmail, a small shield, six 
long swords, fourteen daggers, a mace, a morning star, and a footman's pick. 

4. Stirge Sphere: This room contains a floating, flowing magical ball of translucent light, with some 
thing darker within it. If touched by any spell or physical object, this stasis globe melts away, freeing 
four hungry stirges (see MCI). 

5. Floating Corpse: The shrouded, skeletal body of a great mage floats here, horizontally, above the 
stone bier prepared for him. He is not undead, and there is no treasure here. If disturbed and then 
released, the body drifts back to its position above the bier. 

6. Failed Gate: TVvo slim pillars stand in this room, and between them flickers a bright wall of light. A 








booted; skeletal foot and a skeletal hand project from one side of the shimmering pane of light. This is a 
gate that has gone wrong. If the hand and foot are pulled on, they fall out of the pane, sheared away by 
the magical fields of the gate. Any PC trying to use the gate takes 4d4 blast damage, and is hurled back 
into the room-along with an unturnable wraith (see MCI), a transformed gate-user, who attacks. This 
gate cannot be made to operate reliably. It drains any magical item(s) touching it. 

7. Floating Corpse: The shrouded, skeletal body of a great mage floats horizontally above the stone 
bier prepared for her. She is not undead, and if disturbed and then released, the body drifts back to its 
position above the bier. Above her floats a staff, which PCs can freely take-but it has only one power 
left. It allows a single being grasping it to jump twice per day, free from mythal distortions. 

8. Rusty Swords: This room contains a rusting pile of discarded weapons (origin unknown . . . tro 
phies, perhaps?), mainly scimitars. Most crumble into scale when touched, but three scimitars are intact 
enough to use. (Each strike made forces an item saving throw on one of these weapons; if failed, the 
blade snaps.) 

9. Floating Corpse: The shrouded, skeletal body of a great mage floats here, horizontally, above the 
stone bier prepared for him. He is not undead, and there is no treasure here. If disturbed and then re 
leased, the body drifts back to its position above the bier. If anyone enters the room, the image of a 
robed, 
bearded man suddenly appears, and ways, 'Here lies Halagust the Flame Artificer, mighty archmage. Few 
will match his achievements; few will master Art as he has. Look upon him, but disturb him not, or his 
last 
and greatest spells will be unleashed-and ye will surely join him, in dust." The image doesn't react to 
PCs, 
can be freely passed through, and reflects all magic used on it, 100% upon the source. 

10. This room contains a dropped, unlit torch. 

11. Ioun Stones: A radiant sphere of pulsing light floats in this room, seven gemstones orbiting it ( ioun 
stones of types chosen by the DM; see DMG). Whenever a stone is taken, a cold male voice says: 'Chal 
lenge!'' The being who took the stone instantly glows with a vivid blue faerie fire- like aura; ldl2 rounds 
later it flares into vivid brightness and then vanishes in a wild mythal magic effect (see the table on 
Cardsheet Three) befalls the being. (If dispel magic is used on the aura, it causes the effect to occur 
immediately.) 

12. Wizard Gauntlet: This long hall is lined with twelve stone statues of wizards down one side, and 
sorceresses down the other, their arms raised as if casting spells. They face inward, 10' apart (one is 
placed at every gridline intersection in the room, as delineated on the map). Counting from the door, 
every fourth statue casts magic missiles if activated; every fifth statue casts a random wizard spell or 
speaks cryptically (DM must supply dialogue); and the twelfth statue on either side casts heal (All spells 
are cast at the activating being.) 

The statues can only be activated by a spellcasting being who utters any of 12 words in this room, one 
activation per word spoken within 60': Art, danger, guard, look, mage, magic, monster, Mystra, spell, 
sword, watch, wizard. PCs who learn how to trigger these statues can make repeated use of their spells. 

If any statue is struck or a spell is cast at it, it explodes; all beings within 30' take 3d4 points of blast 
damage and must save vs. spell or be feebleminded (beings 31' to 40' away must make a dexterity check 
or suffer ld4 points of damage). Roll ld20 for all statues within 30'; any roll of 13 or less means that 
statue explodes also (same effects, plus save for all statues within its range; a chain reaction can easily 
occur). 

13. This room contains a partially-completed clay golem (DM determines level of completion). 

14. Pickling Room: If the door to this room is touched, a bearded magic mouth appears on it and says 
"Pass not! Danger awaits!" 

The room within contains a beholder, floating with its large central eye only inches inside the door, 
staring out through a fringe of eyestalks. The room is filled with preservative fluid, held in by a magical 
field that contains the liquid but allows beings to pass); the beholder is dead, pickled, and harmless. The 
fluid, however, does Id 12 points of acid damage per round to any being in contact with it, and drowns 
anyone in it for too long, just as water does. 

15. Ifemple to Mystra: A permanent illusion of a blue-white star floats amid a slowly circling ring of 
nine stars above an altar shaped like a rising silver flame. As it is entered, a soft voice speaks from the 
empty air: "This place is sacred to Mystra, Mistress of Magic. Speak and she will hear you." There is 
nothing else in the room except dark tapestries along the back wall. The DM must decide if Midnight or 
Azuth will hear or answer prayers made here; manifestations should be common. 

16. Whatsits: This room contains a strange, massive machine of metal and magic. It hums, buzzes, and 
has arms, wheels, and levers that move slowly and continually. A bloody scrap of tunic and bloodstains 
on the floor warn of what can happen to those who get too close to it. This is an unfinished experiment, 
and does nothing-except emit a monster from time to time, gated from somewhere else. If the 
machine 
is attacked, the effects are identical to what occurs with the statues in area 12, but only a small part of 
the machine explodes each time. 

17. Privy: a seat above a cesspit. A moldering pair of long-forgotten slippers lies here. 

18. This room contains a tall, pointed hat, a pair of gloves, and a wand of knock (emits knock spells or 
the reverse; only have 16 charges left, looses one spell per charge). 



The Thel aeneum 

This crypt is all that remains of the Thelaene Order, an order of mage-philosophers. It's not found on 
Map 3, because . 
one today remembers (or will admit to remembering) just where the Thelaeneum stood. This leaves the 
DM free to 
locate it anywhere in the path of exploring PCs. 

Elminster says it is entered via a ladder-shaft that plunges down several hundred feet into a closet, but 
has a feather 
fall enchantment to protect falling beings from damage (area #1 on the map). 

Keg 

1* Entry closet: Whenever a living being reaches the bottom of the shaft, a magic mouth appears on the 
door, says 
"Eating prolongs life. Feed me," and remains open. It repeats its message whenever any being arrives at 
the bottom of 
the shaft, if anything is touched to the open lips of the mouth, the door swings open. If someone ignores 
the mouth and 
opens the door by the handle, tiny bolts of lightning arc from the door to strike him for ld4 + 3 points of 
damage. 

2. Guardian: A stone golem stands here. It attacks and pursues anyone who enters this room, unless a 
now-forgotten 
code work is uttered. See MCI, "Golem;' for its abilities: it has the usual 60hp. 

3. Guardian: Another 60-hp stone golem stands here. It attacks and pursues anyone who enters this 
room, unless a 
now-forgotten code work is uttered. See MCI, 'Golem," for its abilities. 

4. Thpestry: The north wall of this room is covered by a large, bright tapestry. It shows a life-sized 
sorceress facing a 
glowing archway, with an old, thick forest in the background (looking much like the Elven Court 
encircling Myth 
Drannor). The colors of the tapestry are so bright that magic must be involved, and anyone approaching 
it feels a warm, 
tingling sensation. If the tapestry is touched by a living being, or by an item held by a living being, one of 
the following 
things occurs: 

If any part of the wooded background is touched, the PC is gated to the real woods outside the ruined 
city, to a certain 
dell where a spring of safe drinking water rises and beasts sometimes come to drink. 

If the glowing archway is touched , the PC is plane shifted to another plane (determined randomly, or 
DM's choice). If 
the DM lacks the Manual of the Planes or doesn't want play to move to another plane, the archway 
could take the PC to 
the demiplane of Ravenloft, the world of Oerth, of another fantasy setting-probably without any 
immediately visible 
means of return. 

If the sorceress is touched, a wizshade or insane sorceress (DM's choice) is freed, stepping out of the 
tapestry to attack 
all beings present with killing spells. The sorceress has mastery enough over the mythal to suspend its 
prohibitions and 
wild magic in her locale, and can use any weird, wild, overpowerful spells the DM wants to try out. 

Wizshades are detailed in MC7. DMs lacking this reference should replace it with an apparition of a 
wizard that saves 
vs spells (as a 9th-level wizard) each round to avoid vanishing. Each round it remains it casts a random 
spell at the PCs; 






roll ld8 for level, ld20 for spell. 

5. Surprise: In this chamber stands a bench under a row of pegs on the wall, a pair of thigh-high leather 
boots tossed 
under the bench, and the severed head of a mind flayer, sitting on the bench looking up at the PCs, its 
mouth-tentacles 
curling to and fro. (The preserved head was animated by enchantments, as a mastery of Art task and 
joke long ago, and 
no longer has any powers; its eyes and tentacles move as if it's alive, but that's all it does.) The boots 
alter in size to fit 
anyone who tries them on, and are the equivalent of bracers of defense AC 2. 

6. Ex'Guardian: A stone golem stood guard here, but someone recently smashed it into fragments, 
destroying its 
enchantments. 

7. Potions Closet: Someone else got here first, largely emptying the shelves, but at the DM's option 
there may still be a 
few potions here. 

8. Maps Room: Damp has ruined all the maps stored in pigeonholes here, but the marble topped map 
table has an old, 
failing enchantment on it that causes maps to momentarily appear on its surface, more or less in 
response to whatever 
areas a being concentrates on (DM should allow players glimpses of any Faerunian locale overland or 
street maps they 
request, but not dungeon or floorplan maps; such peeks should last 12 seconds at the most). 

9. Well Chamber: A deep well brings cold, clear water up here (and may, if the DM desires, connect with 
the Under- 
dark). The shaft has a guardian intended to discourage passage up or down (except for buckets of 
water): a 36-hp 
gargoyle (see MC2). It soars up from the well to the attack if PCs drop anything except a rope or bucket 
down the well, 
or reach or climb in 

10. Treasure Chamber: A glowing, circular stone table in the center of the room holds a crown, a 
scepter, a long 
sword, a jeweled belt, a helm, and a battle axe. Around the treasure is inscribed a circular inscription: 
'Here lie the 
treasures of the Order. Only Champions of the Order may take them up without peril." 

If anything on the table is touched, the flagstones of the floor erupt all over the room, propelled from 
beneath by 
human skeletons. These are some former champions of the Order, and they wear rotting tabards with 
the arms of the 
Order on the breasts: an open mouth, spewing out four blue-white stars. 

The skeletons retain the abilities they had in life, and are THACO 9, FI 2s with 92 hp each. Their 
frequency of attack is 
doing ld6 points of damage barehanded, and cannot be turned. (They have the same properties and 
immunities as 
normal undead skeletons, as given in MCI.) They snatch items not yet taken from the table to fight with, 
and hurl 
flagstones (40' range, ld6 points of damage) seeking to slay all intruders, and pursuing anyone trying to 
leave with any 
of the items from the table. They retain the intelligence they had in life, but can't speak. 

The treasures on the table are a crown-shaped helm of comprehending languages and reading magic, a 
scepter-form 
rod of smiting, a long sword +2; a belt inset with a gem of insight and some worthless cut glass 
ornamental stones; a 
helm +2 (functions as a shield +2 and allows water breathing automatically, twice/day, for 1 hour at a 
time; and a battle 
axe +3. If PCs gain most of them, tanar'ri from the city may come looking for them a month or more 
after the PCs leave 
the ruined city. 

11. Crypt: The shrouded, skeletal bodies of four female mages float horizontally here, above their stone 
biers, long 
hair trailing down from their skulls. They are not undead, and there is no treasure here. If disturbed and 
then released, 
a body w'ill drift back to its position above the bier. 

12 . Guardian: A 29-hp gargoyle (see MC2) stands guard here. It attacks all intruders. 

13. Animate Statues: This hall is lined with smoothly animated, lifelike stone statues of wizards and 
sorceresses. 
They look from side to side, raise their hands as if casting spells, greeting new arrivals, or engaging in 
oratory, but in 
reality work no magic. If a statue is lifted off its pedestal, its magic is broken. 

14. Library: Someone got here before the PCs and cleaned it out. A 76-hp lurker above attacks anyone 
entering the 
room-and the moment it is dead, the secret door in the west wall bursts open under the onslaught of 
the greedy 
strands of the 68-hp roper (10 HD) standing in the corridor beyond. Both monsters are detailed in MC2. 

15. Battle Scene: In this area lie the bodies of two recently-slain ettins, their huge clubs still in their 
hands. Whatever 
slew them bored through their faces and emptied out their heads. (The killers were either alhoon or 
normal illithids, 
now gone.) 

16. Office: This room was once equipped with a very nice wooden desk, three large, comfortable chairs, 
and nothing 
else; someone has ransacked it, tearing open drawers and taking every scrap of paper in the place. PCs 
won't find 
anything unless they shift the desk aside and examine the floor beneath it, where a loose flagstone can 
be lifted to reveal 
a coffer containing a dozen spell scrolls (DM's choice of spells, one per scroll). 

17. Lair: This room has a ceiling only 3' above its floor, and is lit only by a glowing heap of gems (all 50-gp 
value orange 
carnelians; there are 612 of them), in turn lit by the glowing sword in their midst. Any PC who crawls 
into the tunnel 
and touches the sword suddenly discovers it is a xaver (monster detailed in this set), that animates and 
attacks. Its first 
attack hits automatically, and thereafter, darting about in its lair where PCs are confined, it is +3 to hit 
on all attacks (M- 
sized or larger foes are at - 2 to hit it). The radiance comes from the xaver, but is the result of a continual 
faerie fire cast 
by an earlier adventurer, to mark a known menace. 

18. Shrine to Oghma: T\vo chairs and a kneeling pad flank a huge stone statue of a partially unrolled 
scroll. From 
time to time, two eyes appear for a moment on the scroll, look around the room (and at anyone in it), 
and then wink out 
again. There is no treasure here, but a true worshipper of Oghma can ask a single question and receive a 
dear, detailed 
answer via a voice heard in the querent's mind. 



Key to the Map op M?/th Drzannorz as It Was 

This view shows Myth Drannor near the height of its greatness. The older portions of the city are the 
westernmost; the more wooded and wider-spaced estates east of Glyrryl's Pool were built later, as the 
city expanded. 

In the list that follows, the Y symbol denotes a school of wizardry. The symbol v marks the dwelling of 
a noble or powerful family. Elminster warns that this map is far from complete, even in its listing of 
important city features; "My memory is not what it was," he warns, "and my prudence grows with each 
passing moon-I have chosen to omit certain things. If ye find them, ye'll know why." 


1. Glyrryrl's Pool 

2. The Meadow 

3. Tilver's Dam 

4. Gemblaunt Isle 

5. The VVestfields 

6. Burial Glen (and The Warrior's Gate) 

7. Lovers' Glade (temple of Sune) 

8. Castle Cormanthor 

9. The Speculum 

10. Tyrintar's Hall 

11. The Irithlium (Y) 

12. The Six Tyryl Towers (Y) 

13. Ildrannath's Tower 

14. The House of Song (temple of Oghma) 

15. The Onaglym (House of Gems) 

16. Shaundakul's Throne (temple) 

17. The Throne of Thought (temple of Labelas 

18. Hall of The Guild of Naturalists 

19. House Symbaern (v) 

20. House Iliathorr (v) 


21. House Llundlar (v) 

22. House Miritar (v) 

23. House Ammath (v) 

24. House Neirdre (v) 

25. House Ulondarr (v) 

26. House Maerdrym (v) 

27. House Pholont (v) 

28. House Haladar (v) 

29. House Audark (v) 

30. Battlehelm House (v) (of the family 
Faerondarl) 

31. House Raedrimn (v) 

32. House Haevault (v) 

33. House Hawksong (v) 

34. House Moonglamaer (v) 

35. House Silverspear (v) 

36. House Omberdawn (v) 

37. House Mistrivvin (v) 

38. House Narlbeth (v) 

39. House Aunglor (v) 







40. House Nightstar (v) 

41. Dragondark Tower (Y) 

42. Windsong Tower (Y) 

43. The Shop of Secrets (magical components and rarities) 

44. Baelemoan VVindriver, Harp-Maker (home and shop) 

45. Blackbuckles Wines & Tonics (shop for wine, spirits, and blended drinks, including herbal medicines) 

46. Samblar's Swords (fine &, enchanted blades) 

47. Chalsarda's Scents &, Perfumes (home and shop) 

48. Halister Bloodmark, Scribe &, Bookmaker (home and shop) 

49. Undiall Hegaeril: Furs, Silks, and Cloth (home and shop; tailor and purveyor of garment material) 

50. The Overfull Jack (tavern) 

51. The Blue Lute (tavern) 

52. The Fall of Stars (tavern) 

53. The Flaming Goblet (tavern) 

54. Silvershield Hall (tavern) 

55. The Dancing Dryad (tavern) 

56. The Masks and Mirrors (dining and dancing hall) 

57. The Gorgontvr (dining and dancing hail) 

58. Serpentspires (dining and dancing hall) 

59. Moontapestrv Hall (dining and dancing hall) 

60. Owl Towers (inn) 

61. Daggerdark Hall (inn) 

62. Shamblin's Towers (inn) 

63. Saunder's Halls (inn) 

64. The Wvvernwatch (inn) 

65. Shuldin's Stonespire (inn) 

66. Elbauthins Hall (inn) 

67. Skullwhispers House (inn; reputed to be haunted) 

68. Delchomedar's House (inn) 

69. Nanchan's Tower (mage's home) 

70. Blackstar Tower (mage's home) 

71. Halpaeril's lower (mage's home) 

72. Sundamar's Tower (mage's home) 

73. Jendark's Tower (mage's home) 

74. The Pipe &, Unicorn (former inn; home to the Ildacer family, all wizards) 

75. Jalbaerth's Tower (mage's home) 

76. Gargoyles Hall (home of the archmagistress Joylith Hurlbolts" Dlanyr) 

77. Crownfrost Towers (home of the archmage Klaern Kadelaryn) 

78. Summerstars House (home to sister archmagistresses, Alyndra and Nueleth Summerstars) 

79. The Anvil (meeting-place and auction block) 

80. Sixstar (intersection and meeting-place) 

81. The Street of Song 

82. Halidom Street 

83. The Street of the Evening Star 

84. Eldansyr's Ride 

85. Moonshadows Street 

86. Sunblade Street 

87. The Stroll of Minstrels 

88. Danglestar Street 

89. Dragoneves Street 

90. Berduin's Ride 

91. Shandol Street 

92. Withercloak Street 

93. Bellshield Ride 

94. Scatterhorn Street 

95. Darthil Street 

96. Candledance Way 

97. The Street of Sorrows 

98. Gondrim's Ride 

99. Phelindra Street 

100. The Street of a Dozen Dreams 



Windsoog Tocoen 

The bottom-most cellar level is all that remains of a school of sorcery whose membership was secret, 
but 
whose accomplishments and graduates (Elminster assures us) are impressive. The fighting in the last 
stand for the city raged fiercely here, reducing the Tower itself to rubble-or, some say, a mighty feat of 
magic tore it up out of the ground, and it rose into the sky like a Netherese skyship, whisking the surviv 
ing mages of the Tower to safety somewhere afar off "beyond the stars." 

Whatever really befell, all that remain on the surface today are fluctuating glows of failing magic that 
play continuously over the rubble where the Tower once stood. At night, the effect is eerie and 
spectacu 
lar, centered around a raised 30'-square area of tiles that was probably once the floor of a room in the 
ground floor of the Tower. Now it stands as a continually lit plateau, bare of rubble, with a circular rune 
cut into its center. The tiles glow white. The rune, a triangle of diamonds having barbed tails trailing 
from one point, set within two concentric circles, glows blue-green. 

If any part of the 30'-square former floor is touched by any being or item, the blue-green radiance 
pulses as a gate operates, whisking away whatever touched the floor to Area #1 (see below). The walls, 
floors, and ceilings of all areas in the cellar radiate a very faint, orange faerie /ire-like aura. 

Keg 

1. Entry Chamber: This room contains six human skeletons, three fallen daggers, a scimitar, a hand- 
axe, and four long swords; all are disintegrating with age. The bones are gnawed and scattered. Among 
them lie the chitinous fragments of some long-dead monster. 

2. Hall of Hats: This otherwise bare hallway contains two eerie rows of silently floating hats, one along 
each wall; a dozen long, pointed hats in one row, and a variety of circlets, caps, and headscarves (four 
teen in number) facing them. These all float at about head-height, and none have any magical 
properties. 
If taken, they prove to be mere normal hats that crumble into dust if taken outside the mythal. At the 
DM's option, one or more may be mimics or similar monsters, or may contain a stirge held in stasis until 
the hat is touched, and one or more may hold keys, scribbled notes or maps, or a coin or two, contained 
behind inner flaps. These are simply wizards' headgear, "hung" here on spells that haven't failed yet. PCs 
can hang pouches, clothing, and the like, up to a weight of 100 lbs., by raising them to hat-height, and 
letting go. Living things cannot be affected by this modified levitation magic. (No hanging halflings.) 








3. Tt*ap Chamber: This room seems to contain only a glowing heap of coins at its center, but this is an 
illusion covering a 9-hp large spider {see MCI). Its poison is not fatal, but paralyzes for 3d4 turns, onset 
time ld4 rounds. It does not move unless touched. 

The spider is governed by a powerful defensive spell: the doppleganger effect. Whenever it is killed in 
this room, two full-hit-point spiders appear. This happens seven times, if PCs remain in the room to 
fight. 
The spider won't leave the room, but tries to slay all intruders. 

4. Chamber of Death: A recently-slain gorgon hangs impaled on a pair of spears here, its body and the 
shafts forming a gruesome tripod. A torn-off piece of cloak is impaled on one of its horns (obviously left 
behind by a foe the gorgon didn't quite manage to kill). If the scrap of cloth is examined, a lump is found 
sewn into it: a pearl of power (see the DMG). 

5. Treasure Closet: The door to this room displays a plaque in Thorass: 'Peril Within. Disturb Not." 
The door cannot be picked or forced; it must be shattered or smashed down. Inside the closet beyond 
the door are two chests of 500 gp each, two chests of 500 sp each, and two crates of 12 trade-bars each 
(silver ingots worth 25 gp each). 

The second chest of gold pieces is really a 10-HD killer mimic (see MCI). It attacks whenever an in 
truder is within range. 

6. Treasure Closet: The door to this room displays a plaque in Thorass: "Peril Within. Disturb Not." 
The door cannot be picked or forced; it must be shattered or smashed down. Inside is an array of trea 
sure identical to Area 5, save that the second chest really does hold 500 gp. There is no monster here. 

7. Star Chamber: A permanent illusion fills this room: stars twinkle and drift in a dark void. They 
match those in the skies of Faerun. If the DM desires, this room can show Realmspace and adjacent 
crystal spheres in an animated map, to stimulate PC interest in spelljamming or other worlds. 

8. Statue Chamber: A dramatic stone statue stands in the center of this room: a life-sized, bearded and 
robed human wizard, hands thrown up in a gesture of spellcasting. The statue turns to point at any door 
of the room that is opened, but does nothing else. A secret panel in the back of the statue's head (found 
on a successful intelligence check) opens by pressing on the statue's eyes, and holds several magical 
rings 
of the DM's choice. Minor rings such as water walking are best. 

9. Abode of the Tyrant: A spherical creature with writhing eyestalks floats here. It turns to regard 
any intruders or approaching light source, and opens its central eye. This "beholder" is only a pro 
grammed illusion, complete with silkily whispered dialogue. If spells are cast, it is spoken to, or is ap 
proached within 20', it says "Tlirn back, if you would live." 

Propped against the back wall of this chamber is a staff of curing (see DMG), with a note affixed to it: 
"Aldane of Tymora will come to reclaim this. Surrender it with our thanks." 

10. Exit Closet: The unlocked door of this room bears a notice plaque: "Bind or dismiss all spells before 
leaving. No spellhurling in city streets, please." Within is a glowing disc on the floor, and a wall-peg rack 
of "normal" cloaks and jackets. The disc is a gate out-the only known way! 

11. Bloodstain Closet: This room contains a large, dark bloodstain on the floor, and six headless, 
skeletal snakes arranged in a circle within it-but no magic or treasure. 

12. Dragonskull Hall: A gigantic red dragon skeleton hangs overhead, 20' up, in this chamber, sus 
pended by wires affixed to the ceiling-beams. Beneath it, in the center of the room, is a pile of six 
stacked 
chests, surrounded by a brilliant purple-white glow (a preservative spell to protect the chests). The 
chests contain 750 gp each. The flagstones all around the sphere of light sink slightly when stepped on 
(intelligence check to notice; dwarves and thieves searching for a trap see this automatically) that rest 
inside the dragon skull. They each fire two missiles per round, at any living beings inside the circle of 
flagstones. 

13. Armor Rack: A rack in this room holds a magnificent suit of blued full plate armor +2. It alters in 
size to fit any wearer. 

14. Ashes to Ashes: This room contains two highbacked stone chairs, a small round table between 
them with two tankards on it. In each chair is a pile of ashes and bone fragments. 

15. This room contains crumbling-to-dust firewood. 

16. This room is identical to #3. 

17. Room of the Green Glow: All beings entering this room emit a pale green faerie fire for ld4 + 3 
turns-the same glow that always fills the room. 

18. Room of Floating Heads and Hands: Drifting human skulls and severed hands circle the room 
aimlessly, and aren't any sort of monster. They can be moved, deflected, or even taken by PCs-but 
speak 
with dead won't work on anything in or from this room. 

19. A 7tenser's floating disc spell (see PHB) is visible in this room, glowing, as the door opens. It collapses 
into winking, fading motes of light before anyone can act, and is gone. Nothing else is in this room. 



F r 












fcU/M&'iY 1 r Ai.JL-- 


y' 'a; ! ' 


" Vv,av: 


A'Aiv 


¦ . ., V. 

- 1 *- I , - ¦ ."V. . / JC--4 ¦ ^ i t 

lj \'V rf 

¦ T l >- .Mi . . ¦'¦ =\ 

-'¦¦ ,-..f 

...••¦ i xw . 1 . ¦ S" •**'#:'. ¦'¦¦i i£ *. . y 

*V ¦(_: - T . 


.1 


hj: 


4>, i |" r r 

•A. m 

*¦ ! 1 iE l .1. 

" "- "ut u V .. 




IV, 


a: 




f - 


K't y. 

rtuiP? 

, 

:, 

' it': 


r " ¦ & 
\ t_, W a 




. L Jt. '- 


" 

-T^it Vt , i '< ^ 

. 


¦: 


V- v P 


I 


1, 


v ¦- H. ft 4^ 

'I ' •' ../ >¦ '-xV' ¦ 
w : s. v" 4 _ i \ ¦¦'- - 




¦'-¦'.i 4 

t., 

¦ ,tJ ; V. 




, f. 

, ' r; iTv '.V 


P** ¦ 1 *r ^ '"."t .' V % ' .'V 1 ~H Y ' * l 1 • ¦ """ J ¦ i J 1 

. , -• > ¦¦ , i ,1 - , .? • T^T II. f* . I !¦ J V 

Cv '¦ f - < *t •• Y f V? i : "• v, . ^ ni..' f ¦¦(/¦(' 

.% i ¦" vlK.J'A.' . % s 1 e¦ .V, ¦ e ¦" i. ¦¦ v j * ¦ ¦ , , VV 




' .\ ¦ - : '- 


1L i. t,_> ¦ 


¦ u 


l "l 


" 

w var < 




'Mi r.u ,, 


W.S 'T *L=' : ; i - w 


4 i '¦ 

f A 

1.1' \ ' i 


ViM 


X. fl X 

(S(r) : ¦¦X>' 
y.VM : ¦ 

M 


r ; ^ ' 

ISi ¦ 








. v 


iv X k it i}- 

L \ P " t 1 ¦ 




•'.: ••. ' ¦ t 


'••¦• v 






L. kMS^^-Ja •!-- r 


^ * ¥l '^ f^.' 




-L. 


I^L , v 

' . • ¦ ';j!f^;. AAi.'*•" V t.- , ft-* • 

m S ,' _ *1 . 1 . .i (tm) 

¦ • >, \ ¦:- 't, r n -. 1 I 1 -iV_ ,B "J 

k s 'v ..c-Y'X 

¦ ••:. M 

, 4-' i uu 


. ¦ ¦ V' i 1 ".'- a . •%* ' r ! 

;,v V Y ;* *7i 

r, ¦ t -l -v '- 







-cy 

MjOT 























































































Brigand encounters 

These outlaw bands will be 3d12 In 
number, and an typically led) by an F6 
{possible names; Thanshsr BlacKhrid le, 
nantbryn ironstone; end Andrsgon the 
Bold 5 ') who " THAC0 15 end has 40 hp. 
These rogues are AC 7 {leather armor 
end Ofrjf bonus); MV 12; T2a; hp 12 
{each); THACP 20; AT 1 ; Dmg by weapon 
type (broad sword: 2d4, 2 daggers each: 
1d4,3 spears each: 1d6); ML 13; AL HE; 
MCI (under 'Men"). 

They will hurl spears and axaslrom 
thickets and overhanging branches, and 
then charge tolhs attack. Thin curds will 
b* strung across the trail in front ol their 
attach Id trip fleeing horses (automatic 
spill pi rider with IdJ failing damage, 3d4 
tolhs mount). 





Known Woods 


dSO 

roll Encounter 

01 1420tneorot6 cr Id# dryads 
OZ 2d4 trolls or Ad4 pixies 
03 144 giant (pol&anouB) snakes 

04 146 lyCfnlUropea (wereboars) 

QB Zdld large spiders or 146 skunks 
QB Zdl £ gianl centipedes Or Hag 
booties 

07 4d4 wild dogs Or 14411 giant owls 

06 2d10 large epidera or wolves 

09 4d4 stirge* r or 144 +1 owlbeara 

ID Id# wild boars or 1d12 lintHari 1 
11 2ti4 Imlls or 1 dfl living weds 

15 4d4 Etirgfifi' or Ida dopplegangera 

13 1<J4 11 ovrfcwr* or giant ante 

14 beaiE (1 da black Or 1 d6 browo) 

16 2d f 0 large epidera or hobgoblina 

16 4d4 sti rges * or 140 giant weasels 

17 4d4 gnol la or 2d4 shadows 

1A Id f 2 giant bt 4t or 1d6 living weds 

19 1d2 wild weasels or 1 dO ankheg 

Z0 Special (sec below) 

Special; DM's choice, or roll 1 did: 

01 1 groaning spirit or phaergals or 

oantobele or elver* cal or (night 
only) ei Iver deg or (dusk only] 
talking owl 

02 ZdlQ al-iEiii'ruj ui 2Ue ubliviuH. 

0A 1 greening or 1 hamadryad 

04 144 basilisks or glcomwi ngs (flying 

serpents)' or umplebya 
0$ 1 hangmen ires ("Plant, 

Carnivorous") or faux faerie 
?6 Ad4 clre wolves or bombardier 
beetles or (wood) robehes 
07 idP aokKegs or wyvems or fdutk 
only) manna* 

OP 2d4 satyrs or l-d4+ 1 alaghl 
09 I cticke creeper (''Plant, Cam/') cr 
bandar* or Ihlannen sfiee 
10 1 d2 eltereap* &r fruiettes or green 

dragons ( -l young 1 " or less) 4 












Aquatic Encounter Table 

d12 

roll Encounter 

01 1 dE throat leeches 

?2 id4 gmnt crayfish 

03 1 giant catfish 

04 1 dG giant gar 

PB 5d9 giant Frogs or t bJoiz 

06 1d4 giant lampreys 

OT 1'dS glsrtl plkts 

OB 1 skuz or 1d3 waler weirds 

09 1 d6 freshwater acrags flrollaj 

IP Sdfl gianl frog(r) 

11 IdlOgleait water seders 

12 1 d4 water nagas or carp dragons at 
1d2 river dragons or 2"12metfOir 


Wild Woods 

dao 

roll EncDunter 

Q1 4d1Q kObolds or Idfi brown bears 
02 IdS sylvan cantQurs nr aalyrs 
03 1 dZD glsril wasps 1 or wolvW 

CW 404 zombi* s or 1 d4 +1 shadows 
05 2d4 grant toeda or ogres 

?6 2d1 p large ipldtr* Or 1 d2 behir 

07 1 ChOkv creeper or hangman tree 

Oft Id IZ huge epiders or 
dopple gangers 

?& 5d6 sdrg*j r or Ids brown bears 

1 Q 1 giunt hornet - nr I dE unkcnme 

11 4dft goblins or 1d3 black bears 

12 2d IQ large sp4d"r" or wolves 

13 ftdft sprftea' nr 2dB owlbeara 

14 5dft surges p or 2da o wlbcars 

15 104 phase spiders 

15 IdS gienl weeaela 

17 4d4 moon dvu jatchiriE) 

ffi 1 hunting spider 1 (FOR2J 

T9 1 Acmylh 1 [FOR2J 

20 Special (see below) 

Special DM's choice, nr roll Idlp: 

01 1d4 wyverna 1 tnetSym" (FFG1) 

OZ 304 bombardier beetles 
03 1 graentiBg nr deepspawn fFRIl i 

04 1 wllko-wtspor myth* (FA.1) 

05 1 dZd iresnts or 1d4 H 1 giant 

badgers 

00 1 mimic (common nr killer) 

07 1 d!2 porcupines (any cf Ihe 31/pes| 

Oft 1 zygraal* cr yellow muak creeper 
(plus zu rutiles: 2dfl flpwei^, half 
that number of zombies) or IdiO 
pages! or indIO sprues or fdtlik 
only} lalhlhg owl 

00 T druid (fiar l*vcl r sr&ll 2d4 and add 
ft; nolo that hierophants ere 
possible: H result equal* grand or 
gneal druid, re-roll; note also That 
under lings may be present) nr 
beholder* or aylplf qc jwanmay 
TO 2 warring bonds fe. g. kobnlda vs. 
bandits. moon elves vs. ores) meot, 
whh the PCs caught in Ihe middle 


MYTH DRANNOR (Circa Y 



approximate locations/ 
of all known "magic de 




























pauasay eujG|y IIV 'USi EG6L9 


Y EAR OF THE WORM) 

3/boundaries ? 

¦ , "v ¦ I 1 1 ¦' 

lead" areas .Hvh'bc 'j-V'u 


10B4XXX0702 





















m&X'. 


%&$$& 


?(r)te 

Hfpg 

pj8$ 


iii- -.i-*-rj j 

yX'-ii-r-L"-: 

silK-Ei 


g£sg§Sg£ 








































; ¦ --ir-i 

¦ £.',~'- 

¦¦¦...•; :v-74rf- -T," 

P^=;=ry. •:.* 


$p$£ 






' *"¦ 

¦P 


iM^ : 

EKHgS; 

L.iP 1 .: :-..- -. i. 


• •• •••'••.< 

'fvllb ¦¦¦¦¦' 5 C 1 ^iv^v J ".¦: 

3: • : Y- ;-:7. ? /iVV-vr? "¦ .T~-~- ¥ BH (tm) 








IIIBI 


. 

: ¦ , ., 

m 


mmm 
































' 


.Jim . 1 













JUi 






- - n -V - .4 , 






j(r)5& 




ECMLQXXXraC l 



Wild Mythal Magic Table 


Roll percentile dice end consult th is 
table. Modify results to fltlhe situation 
and add color. 


01-10: 


All beings wilhin W of the 
source of the affected magic 
muataave ve. apelfca; everyone 
who falls Is affected ssbfbya 
reverse gravity, tailing up for 7 
rounds and Ihtn down again 
(Tdft impacl damage upon 
landing). 


11-14; 


?anting motes 01 light appear in 
a sparhli ng. smoking Cloud 
?round (tie souica of the magic, 
end coalesce- into 1d£0 gems of 
random types end values (which 
fall from the ai rh end a chain 
ttgtifnlng discharge that leaps 
from the eaalehmsgloal Item 
wleldsf to Iht nearest living 
being, dealing SdS damage, and 
than area to Ihe next closest 
being lor Bd6 damage, and ao on 
(in doubirtii cates d which 
target is nearest, determine 
randomly; In this hk 3 the ''nesl 
nearest 7 ' being is determined 
from the original source, not die 
last being struck). Saving Ihrowa 
are allowed for items (lo escape 
all damege) end for struck beings 
(to take only half damage; round 
down number of die rolls]. 


1 9-2&; Target (if a being) and all beings 

within 20' of target are affected 

" n by a heaf spell, 

CasferAnsgieal Hem wioldcT 


loses 2d4 hit points, but la 
surrounded by a "chill shield 1 
Are sJ^e/o spell, lasting 9 roui 


26-40: 


A Mt?r-a , ej-ifcgi , ne?n s disjunction 
spell takes effect, ils 3G' -radk 
sphere centered at a random 
apol wilhin 12d' of the 
CiSlerfmagbcai Item wilder (l 
1d12 for clsisoce. a na Scstte 
Qiagram on page *3 of the 
lo determine dineeli-Pfl). cente 
on the ces-ter, not the target, 


31-33; 


An item appears {roll on the * 
Objects Table, on page 143 Of 
FORGOTTEN REALMS ' 
Adventures sourcebook), 
striking ihe teste* on the has 

Ifom -ubuve, rL>r 1 (Odd ¦ Oil) OT 
(even roll; points ol damage.. 
other beings wiifiin m are 
simultaneously affected as 
follows (roll 1d6|. 


1; Hie being 1$ steeled aa II 
a jump spell, amb hurled 20' 
random directi on (use Scatfc 
Diagram or page 63 of the 
DMG)- 2d4 Impact -denwige 
applies If Iravel is into e wsl 
01 hef Ififge solid object: 

2: The being Is healed Cl Id 
hit polnte (If wounded}, and 
affected by (even roll) a 
IdA-round-duralloo mirror 
im dfl* Spell, or (odd roll), a i 
o/en/aebJejncnf whp*e efle 
Isat 1d& rounds; 

3: The being gnow*- an eJctre 
arm, head, leg. or tentacle. 


*1M3 T5R ? Inc. AH Rights Reserved. 








r 

i nd&. 


a 

iut 

i 

u-se 

tr 

WG 

itiud 


Art 
sP the 


ed 

arS 

.All 


if by 
y in s 

Iter 


all or 

4B 

id is 


lids 

Tj 

I 1 . 


34-36; 


which coili, Hells about, and 
nukes noise 

uncontrollably-appendage will 
drop olt after She turns, but 
until then lowers Armor Class 37,45. 
by 3 points, endanger* balance 
(being canMt walk along ropes 
dr even narrow pBlha without 
danger of laflling or airaying on 
routed and make* stealthy 
movement impossible: 

4: The being Ib di'btiiiHShec# to a 
(enrlh of normal height, shrunk 
as If by a polnrt Of diminution 
fur Sd12 rounds, and also 
rendered invisible if Of same 
length of time "r until mo king 
Hrcl successful attack): 

$: The being becomes center 
focus of a sifJertee. TS'retflUS 
spell, lasting 1d4 luma or until 
-diflfsolFtd; 

?: The being Is outlined by 
orange faerie fire, duration 1d4 
turn*. 

The ground In a AO'-radlus circle 
centered nn the caster/magical 
Item wiolder rlpplas, Hows, end 
shuddErs. Bubbles burst dp out 
of it, streaming upwards. All 
beings in this area mu*l save v*. 

SpellB to avoid falling (no 
damage, but ruins epclltastlng. 
aiming missile weapons, etc.), 
and any flames (torches, 
lira-based spells, even lanterns) 

In the area trigger a bubble 
explosion, extinguishing lbs 
flame and doing 4d4 pelntB of 


damage to any being at ot within 
(&• Ol the flame, and 2d4 damage 
1c everyone else in the bubble 
area (no saves allowed). 

Any Items Of molal or atone 
within tOO' ol the casterf magical 
Item wlelder lhalare not In 
contact With a living being (i.e. a 47-4S: 
atone someone is sitting on, or 
metal armor worn or carded by 
an adventurer won't be affected) 
rise up and dart about by 5ft^53: 

thamifrhres, flying art MV 2fi in 
wild, erratic courses. 

The caster/msglc wieldcr *nd 
all balnga within Ihe 1MJ' range 
must make a Dexterity Check to 
avoid being shuck. H there are 
more than six Hying Items, two 
check* St -1 must be made, and 
if there are mere than 15 items, 
three checks St -2 must be 
made- For each Check that fails, 
the being Ls struck for 1 d4 points 
of damage (or H by a weapon, for 
It* usual damage), unless the 
item has a greater mass than the 
Struck being (a large stone block, 
for example), In which case the 
target takes 2d4 points of 
damage. 

In many areas ot Myth Drannor. 

2d10 stones within a lOO'-radlus 
ores are loose enough to rise up 
and wWrl around. Their flights 54-54; 
last for 1d4 rounds, and checks 
must he made each round to 
avoid being hit. Being* who try 
IQ caal Spell*, pick locks, or 


periorm Other activities thal 
prevent lham from freely leap, 
end dodging about must make 
their check for that round at - 
if failed), the Impact ruins any 
success al Ihe activity 
attempt ed. 

The oealerAnagicat item, wield 
Of a random being within TD' I 
encased In a forracage ot 12 
turns duration. 

A random weapon within 100' 
the caelQr/magic wields r 
animates, fifing to attack a 
random target being, striking 
2 rounda at THACO 3 for norm 
damage. Then il Hits to anctti 
random being and strikes for i 
rounds al THACO 7- Then it 
seek* another target, atri king 
once at THACO S, before fsllin 
Inert. The CMler/magic WleStie 
and original target are 
candidates Idt attack, and the 
weapon files up to a quarter o 
mile at MV 33 to find targets, I 
none are near, IT the weapon l: 
ever struck for 6 or more poln 
of damage in * round (consldt 
to have an Armor Class ol 2), 
harmlessly burets apart into 
shanda of metal, and its 
animation ends. 

A weapon (or failing any. a 
random Item) carried by the 
Intended target Is permanentl' 
changed to {percentile roll ot 
?1-25) a bunch of flower*; 
























5 ; 


Si 

l 


[if 


: Oi 

3l 

If 


g. 

r 


IB 

F 

I 

IS 

fit 

t 


(2G-50) a llit torch: (51-75t art 
Intact skeletal aim, Ite bones still 
linked by sinews end cartilage; 
(T&-99) a live -arm angry normal 
constrictor snake (ACS, MV &, HD 
? +2 a THAOO 17, ^AT 2; bite far 1, 
con strict for 1-3 pointEiround); 
or (CKI) a wand of wonder of 1 dl 2 
Charges. A wielded nr drawn 
weapon I* always affected before 
a shwtbtd or slowed one. 

59-B2: Spell take* effect as cast, bill 
with EL lO -radlUS sp^rlcal area 
of effect, centered 20" to the left 
(even rail) or light (odd rill) Of 
the target. All once-living 
material on the large! (leather 
Cloth, paper, etc.) crumbles to 
dust tqrever {magical Items end 
spelfbfrOk* get a wring throw 
vs. magical lire to escape this 
result), end the casterfmagic 
wilder Is confused for fd4 
rounds, 

&3-G5:. One random being within 120" Of 
the source of the magic affected 
by the mythal is slowed lor 1d6 
rounds, end another random 
being in the range Is 
afleoted as if by a Jittsfe Spell 
{but la nol aged). 

G6-Q$: Spell or magical Item discharge 
is nol M U*td iip H -but the acl of 
calling h forth trigged i Pit CSd a 
random wizard spell ci the 
Alteration school (select S 
random apeli from Appendix 5 Pi 
the Pteyer ^ Handbook 1 . choose 


by the closad-eyM-aild>4tSbbing^ 
finger method, the 
whimalcal-deliberate^choice 
melhod, or by rolling 1 db: I or 2 
moans the nryt column cn page 
±38 (then t*H 3d ID IP find the 
spell, counting from the top); 3 
or 4 means Iha middle column 
{roll 4dl2 to find spall, counting 
up rrom the tiotlom ol the page): 
5 or G means Iha Iasi column (roll 
Id4 to lind Spellh This "phantom 
Spell 18 affects a random target or 
anee, for minimal results. 

TO-7&: A random belrtfl within 90' ol the 
source of Iha affected megk 
breathes once as H using a 
single draught ol potion of firm 
breath: they Involuntarily exhale 
a cons of file Id' wide and 20' 
long that millets 01D ^2 hp of 
damage (all beings within range 
are allowed a aave v-a. breath 
weapon tor half damage; If the 
fire-breathing being doesn't want 
to hurt particular brings whhirt 
range, the breather ie allowed a 
Dexlerity Check lb spit lilt 
Names lo one aide and avoid 
striking any one being). 

QQr§4: A random being within W" of the 
source of the magic affected by 
the mythal la forced Into 
wrPJfflfprjn (as the apeli) for 2d4 
rounds, 

B5-S7E The caster or wurv? of nragiL 

levitates 10 r and revolvts (tWVly 
Clockwise or coun-tenclockwiEe 


6fr": 


51^7: 


frB-OO; 


(determine randomly) IGP 2- z - 
rounds: at the same lime ¦ 
one ether being whhin 1W c- E 
thb CWter or source of m 
poiiymorptiadinlb e= random 
creature (roll on Conjured 
Animals Table, in the end 
Of Compendjt/m \ or 

non-living Hem (roll on the Art 
ObjiCtS Tfrble, on page 145 tF 'ihB 
FORGOTTEN BEALMfi * 

AtiferTCcraEsourCriJMk, or 
Choose a random Item from 
Miscellaneous Equipment I s ¦ on 
page 67 ol the Pt&y&f'* 
Handbook). 

The CftiterVmsgle wielder and 
target creature (or random btmg 
within §0' of easier) Inala ntFy 
trad£ location, clothing, ai*c 
equipment! items that wcnl Nt 
do no damage, but end up facing 
to 1 he gsrdu nd around their 
tomn*r location (and. new owner) 

Black smoke curls and wrrtbr& 
about me Intended taigel^and 
as II blaalpataa. an EybM's btecfc 
fcntaciLes spell (of 1 hour 
duration) Iaktft effect aroun ? the 
large! (even if target is on the 
mpve). 

Last magic Wieldtd by (or 
affecting) a r^hdCrtl PC Of being 
present takea effect again-on a 
random area or large! creature 
(roll dtimay^effects again; they 
need not duplicate the earlier 
magical maniFestatlon). 


































- 


MBKH* 




mm 




¦gfvi 


as 




"*M$ gXtffSi; i m f ¦ £ 

Ipilllitgp 

p •< 4 K 

'' lli(r) 






























- ¦ : 

: 

\U'V.'; ¦ . H" -i? 


r/ 1 .*¦•:¦ 




SglSt 


. ¦ V ; - ¦¦¦•¦¦¦¦ 


$mi. 

































i r. ".¦ - / 

¦ri fc X.7-J. -- ¦ - 1 









I 




















1OQ4XXX0704 





Advanced DunjeonsjjDragom 


4r"A*& r: 

t *~* **l 4 





ifimMWW' Rs/ 



BoxCd Set 


"Nr 


THE RUINS OF 

Myth Drannor 


MYTH DRANNOR, city of glory. We shall not see its like again 


PERHAPS YOU VE HE ARD ITS SHINING STORY . .. of a time when 
elves and dwarves, gnomes and halflmgs and men lived and loved together, 
striving to create beauty and right wrongs Magic was brighter then, in tne City 
of Song Folk were richer then, in the Dry of wonder Once this proud city stood 
as the highest jewel in the glittering crown of civilization 


THERE CAME A DAY when it was overwhelmed by evil, thrown down 
despoiled, and left a rum in the heart of its encircling wood, as all things of 
beauty are 

Evil spawned and crawled there, and the elves kept watch around it. that evil 
mighr not spread Centuries passed, but the tales let few forget the powerful 
magic, the great treasure-and the deadly horrors that lav watting within its 

walls , ,, . 

Now the elves are gone, and adventurers From a hundred lands and cities are 
rushing to Myth Drannor, to seize what they can of the long-lost glory if the 
bards and sages are right, power lies there for the claiming that could change 
the face of tne Realms, rule kingdoms or lav W3ste to them 

if you would be a part of this exciting quest, this boxed set is for you. Inside 
await four poster maps, eight cardsheets, eight MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM"' 
sheets and two booklets-a 128-page Campaign Guide, and a 52-page 
Adventure Bnoklet-filled with details about Myt n Drannor, a fully detailed 
campaign setting for high-level characters in the world 01 the Forgo ten Realms. 
New monsters and magical items await to sparkle and challenge in any AD&D 
campaign and tins sot toys bare the secret at the heu't ot Myth Di jnnnr 1 1 ie 
fabled nnvthal! 


Don't bn left by the fireside listening, wistful and poor Join the rush for gems 
and gold, magic and power' Open this box. and enter into fabled Myth Drannor! 






mmmmm 



]$fc, me. 
PDB756 
i ak£ Genw/i 
WI551d7 US A 



1'StJ I td 

120 nlurch End. Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CBi 5LB 
uriitea Kirradom 




ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. AD SO, anfl 
FORGOTTEN realms are registered trademarks owned oy Tsr iiv 
T he TSR logo and monstrous COMPENDIUM arc trademarks 
0 *rn"j ay TSR inc 1993 TSR hx an pgnrs Bwrwa 
<n tne u s A 


$20 00 U 
CAN $24 C 
£ 11 . 99(1 






































