Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 01104 AD& D Forgotten Realms Ruins Of Undermountain 2"
See other formats
fflijpBHflftllH L - ~*<i\ ¦ _/ •y _ ¦ At J. r " 



OKI 

r Ts 



nfi fctT? 

y^> SeJuFm" 1 m 

. *' 3k.ri > y'nkj, .^, ijjsBbnl 


I ^ 1 Tjifcp i~ 




*>lw 

r y* r " ' •"' "5t ' w i 

k i |n j ", . "*•¦ 18 1 

¦ 1 


0r jL A- a 

If. * ^ "^d 

¦ f 3L*" J*nt' ¦••Tv |'" ,t^§ 


SUM, '^X, 'hi . ' 






' i Bjr 

v * hl, l! BBn 

:il 1 j^M * 

SnSs" W '* ?'g'. 

' 1 WM 


j i ~ry 



Afjyj^.'- 1- 

ES2E-(tm)'' zSiSSmK 



-j [ mimr ifi 





EL sj?p 


I Hi-'n#A mV o 

1 r*-J K */' \ i 

ii'KwSi 

IMlj- ¦ ; 

y. FL-7v-y i.. ^r 





ifc j&Vi 

JjJu&.^vK^ 131 !• B 1 j"^l i* 5 L l*i Ji 

I 1 5 :11 1 . U. i Ji 

y! T A_.f,X jX i. ^ jfr*- - *,. ,; 


! 


¦ 

fp 

E 

JCb^ - - -Jfl ^- 

/Advance*! 

¦ ¦iiiiKMiWiflajftgr 

























bj/Jecin Rqbb 
arjft Nomitj Ritchie 


Advanced .Dung, 


Ifliriah'- 


V- ^i>.i 



























Ru)K) 5 Of Ub3beKmOUh3tA)h3 II 
TTio Doop Lovols 


A CobfCibJu)hjg Campa)gKJ Guide 

To the Realms 
G^eaTesT Duwgeow 


Thanks to Ed Greenwood and Steven Schend 
who brought the original Undermountain into the open 
for all Dungeon Masters and players to enjoy. 















Ru)kjs of U wdemno unTaJki II* 
The Deep Level $ 

CampaJgw Guibe 

by Jean Rabe and Norm Ritchie 

CowTewTs 


Introduction. 3 

About The Deep Levels. 5 

Expanding Undermountain . 6 

The Truth About Undermountain. 6 

Rumors of The Deep Levels.9 

Gates. 11 

Entering The Deep Levels. 14 

Wyllowwood. 15 

The Hunt. 16 

Core Rooms. 16 

Areas of Interest. 43 


Trobriand's Graveyard. 46 

Core Rooms. 50 

Areas of Interest . 62 

Muiral's Gauntlet. 64 

Core Rooms. 69 

Areas of Interest. 98 

New Spells. 100 

Priest Spells. 100 

Wizard Spells. 103 

New Magical Items. 105 

NPCs of the Deep Levels. 114 


CnebTCs 

Design: Jean Rabe, Norm Ritchie, Donald Bingle Cartography: Dennis Kauth 

Editing: Steven Schend, Laura Craig, Linda Bingle Interior Illustration: Dan Frazier 
Additional development, editing, and proofreading 

by Karen S. Boomgarden Cover Art: Fred Fields 

Typographical Design: Angelika Lokotz Production: Paul Hanchette 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva WI 53 147 
USA 



TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End, Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM, and FORGOTTEN REALMS are 
registered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. DUNGEON MASTER, DM, and the TSR logo are trademarks 
owned by TSR, Inc. 

All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by 
TSR, Inc. 

Copyright (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc. 
Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
other unauthorized use of the material 
or artwork herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 


1104 


1-56076-821-5 
























I toTnobucTio to 


ooking for adventure, are ye? 
Looking for a place brimming 
with silver and gold, a place 
dripping with things magical? 
I know a place far and not far 
from here where all of that-and more-can be 
had. But mind me lads, there are other things 
there as well-danger and risk and uncertainty, 
and creatures never before seen by the likes of 
sell-swords and wizards who tread upon the sun 
lit lands of the Realms. 

"This place is called Undermountain. And it 
is far beneath the crust of this world, yet right 
under fair Waterdeep. It is a dangerous labyrinth 
nestled deep in the bowels of the earth. It is a 
dungeon, I, Elminster of Shadowdale, know 
well. I shall tell you of these twisting corridors, 
and of the man who made them his. Listen ye 
carefully-especially if ye are intent on delving 
into its depths. Perhaps what I tell you could 
save your life. 

"Perhaps." 

With that the great mage stretched in the 
ebon-carved chair, his back to the blazing fire in 
the Gold Dragon Inn. The licking flames caused 
his shadow to dance across the floor, mingling 
with the shadows of the Waterdhavians intent 
on his every word. He reached a wrinkled hand 
into the recesses of his robe and withdrew a pipe 
that magically lit when he placed it to his lips. 
He puffed on the curved stem a few times, the 
curl of smoke spiraling upward to lose itself in 
the shadows overhead. 

"Aye, I'll tell you of Undermountain. It is 
the eldest dungeon in all of these lands, a stone 
and earth construction older than Waterdeep. 
Birthed from the mind and workings of the fell 
mage Halaster, the place was given life more 
than a thousand years ago. Halaster Black- 
cloak, they called him, though I know he went 


also by other names, including Hilather the 
Mad Wizard. 

"What I will tell you of him is that at one 
time he was filled with love and life. During 
those years he created many and varied magical 
items and spells, started annual Magefairs and 
Spellmoots and more across the Realms. Indeed, 
he practiced the Art with considerable mastery 
and gained the respect of the populace. He drew 
people and apprentices to him, and then. . . ." 

Elminster inhaled the pipe smoke deeply, then 
released it in a single puff that seemed, for a 
moment, to take on the visage of an evilly-grin 
ning man. "And then Halaster Blackcloak let 
his Art corrupt him. He ended all dealings with 
men, save with his seven apprentices. He came 
to these very lands seeking solitude in the moun 
tain. Whether he came from the east or from 
Netheril, or whether he happened upon this 
ground from the Cradlelands that lie dead and 
buried under the Plains of Purple Dust, only the 
gods know-or care. 

"Ye need know only that Halaster Blackcloak 
came here and called to him monsters from far 
planes and bound them to his will. These dark 
creatures built him a tower, a monument to his 
blackening soul. Long after the tower was fin 
ished he kept the creatures with him. It was his 
dealings with those monsters that changed him 
even more, the sages say. The more time he 
spent with them, the stronger and stranger he 
became. Next, the creatures built more cham 
bers, perhaps at his bidding-perhaps not. But 
this time they constructed them beneath the 
earth, forming tunnels and rooms that en 
croached on, then took over an ancient dwarven 
home called the Underhalls. 

"These caves and corridors were large and 
grand and as pitch as the fell mage's heart. The 
duergar and other dwarves who walked them fell 







before Halaster's spells, yielding the underground 
to the Mad Wizard. Halaster created tricks and 
traps and devious devices, things to protect his 
treasure and magics. Guardians he set to watch 
his scrolls and tomes, the things he wanted no 
other human eyes to see. 

"While above ground, Halaster's apprentices 
wondered at his disappearance and journeyed to 
the deep ways in search of their master." Elmin- 
ster closed his eyes in thought, a furrow crossing 
his brow. "One by one they sought Halaster 
Blackcloak, but they found only grief. Their 
once-master so craved solitude that he sent his 
creatures against them, testing both his students 
and his protections. After two of his apprentices 
were slain, the Mad Wizard called off the attack 
and drew his surviving pupils to his side, enlist 
ing them to help improve the security of his 
Undermountain realm. Only one apprentice 
would not agree. She broke away from Halaster 
and returned to the surface, finding comfort 
within the walls of Myth Drannor and eventu 


ally taking her place as Magister. It is from her 
that all knowledge comes of the fell mage and 
his underground home." 

Elminster rubbed his chin and plucked the 
pipe from his mouth. "It is getting late, so only a 
little more will I tell you. Halaster Blackcloak 
grew in power and age and played with arcane 
incantations to give him immortality. Whether 
he was successful . . . who is witness to say? His 
home still exists in the womb of the earth, and 
that is what ye be interested in. If he no longer 
lives, he cannot consider you trespassers. 

"How to get there, then? How to reach the 
wealth and magic? How to make a name for 
yourselves in the darkened halls far beneath 
Waterdeep? Well, friends, there are many paths 
to the deep ways, magical gates and more to 
transport you to adventure. Ye must find the 
gates and paths on your own or from the lips of 
others, for I shall not lead you to destruction. 
And where will these paths take you? 

"Indeed, where will they take you?" 



4 





About The 
Deep Leu els 

T his is a sequel to the Ruins of Undermountain 
campaign setting by Ed Greenwood, released in 
1991. It presents various levels in the massive 
dungeon and is intended for characters of sixth to 
ninth level; the higher the characters' levels, the bet 
ter their chances for survival. The first boxed set con 
tains extensive background material on the dungeon 
and Waterdeep. Some of that information is para 
phrased in the introductory material of this product. 
You do not need the first boxed set to use Ruins of 
Undermountain II: The Deep Levels. 

Nestled in the Forgotten Realms(r) campaign set 
ting, Undermountain is contained entirely beneath 
Waterdeep, the greatest city in that land. Consult the 
Ruins of Undermountain boxed set, the Forgotten 
Realms campaign setting, and the Forgotten 
Realms Adventures hardcover for more information 
on Waterdeep, its environs, and its inhabitants. 

Ruins of Undermountain II: The Deep Levels (here 
inafter referred to as UMTII) works best within a 
campaign set in the Forgotten Realms. However, it is 
a dungeon, and with very little work it can be used in 
practically any campaign setting. The DM(tm) will 
need to adjust the gates into and out of Undermoun 
tain to fit his or her own campaign. 

The entire dungeon of Undermountain has nine 
known levels and at least 14 sub-levels. UMTII pre 
sents two of those levels, detailed on the full-color 
map sheets included in this box. Another map sheet 
presents a third sub-level and the map for the adven 
ture booklet in this box. The uppermost three levels 
of the dungeon were handled in the Ruins of Under 
mountain boxed set. 

There are more than enough rooms, caverns, and 
corridors in this set to keep players busy for hundreds 
of hours. Many of the rooms, caverns and corridors 
are detailed and populated in this product. These are 
noted by numbers on the maps that correspond to 
keyed descriptions in this book and the adventure 
book. In addition, much of Undermountain is left for 
DMs to personalize with their own tricks, traps, and 


creatures. These undeveloped areas on the maps do 
not have numbers. 

This is the fun of Undermountain - there is just 
enough material to keep DMs and players busy for a 
long while, yet there is just enough room for expan 
sion by DMs who like to create their own material 
and add their own mark to the depths of the 
dungeon. 

This book contains basic information about gates, 
rumors, NPCs, new magical items and spells and 
detailed chambers within the deep dungeon. It should 
be read only by the Dungeon Master(tm). However, 
the DM(tm) might want to read Elminster's introduc 
tion to players to provide them with a little back 
ground and make them curious about Under 
mountain. 

Also included in this box is a 32-page booklet filled 
with adventures. A small Monstrous Compendium(r) 
booklet presents new creatures to vex even veteran 
players; all of these monsters lurk somewhere within 
Undermountain's twisting corridors. And, finally, 
eight DM aid cards present traps and magical effects 
to intersperse throughout Undermountain. 

Using UMTII 

DMs should read all the introductory material in this 
booklet before sending their players into the Deep 
Levels. However, it is not necessary to read the entire 
product before starting play. DMs can focus on certain 
sections of the dungeon, reading only the text that 
pertains to those encounters, traps, and creatures, 
choosing the Monstrous Compendium sheets and 
tricks and traps cards that apply. 

Since there is material here for dozens upon dozens 
of playing sessions, DMs can pace themselves through 
the material, making it less overwhelming. DMs 
should have copies of the Monstrous Compendium 
volumes I and II (or a copy of the Monstrous Manual). 
All the creatures in this boxed set, save for the 
creatures described in the included Monstrous 
Compendium booklet, come from these volumes. Of 
course, DMs are free to add creatures from other 
Monstrous Compendium volumes. 

DMs will get ideas for their own encounters and 





adventures as they read along. Jotting these down to 
populate the empty caverns and corridors is a good 
idea. 

DMs should familiarize themselves with the 
"Rumors" and "Gates" sections. The former will inter 
est players in the massive dungeon and give them a 
reason to take their characters there. The "Gates" 
section lists ways into the dungeon levels detailed in 
this booklet. "The Truth about Undermountain," 
below, provides more information about the dungeon. 

Exp ANXblNJg 
Uw^eRmouwtalw 

T here simply isn't room in this boxed set to detail 
every room and corridor in the dungeon and 
each branch of the underground river illustrated on 
the large maps. 

Many of the rooms and caverns are left undetailed 
so DMs can tailor the dungeon to their own cam 
paigns and to suit the levels of their player characters. 
DMs are free to incorporate creatures of their own 
design or from other MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM(r) vol 
umes. Furthermore, they are encouraged to populate 
the unexplored regions with their own NPCs or with 
creatures and characters from the original Ruins of 
Undermountain boxed set. 

Because Undermountain is so massive and has sub- 
levels not detailed in either of the boxed sets, DMs 
can create dozens of their own adventures and areas 
that will keep their players busy for a virtually unlim 
ited number of playing sessions. In addition, as PCs 
defeat creatures and characters detailed in this prod 
uct, DMs should repopulate those areas with beings 
and things of their own devising. 

Undermountain can be ever-changing and ever- 
expanding. The corridors can be linked to DMs' 
favorite modules and adventures. In fact, DMs' only 
limits are the boundaries of their imaginations. 


The Trmth About 
UN^eRmouwtalK) 

alaster's minions did indeed create much of the 
massive dungeon, as Elminster explained in the 
introduction. However, a sizeable portion of the 
underground was developed by the Melairkyn, a clan 
of dwarves who mined mithral. 

An even deeper section of the dungeon is a series 
of natural caverns and corridors, created by under 
ground bodies of water that hammered away at the 
rock. When the water receded, bands of duergar 
moved in and made it their home. 

The Underdark lies far below the twisting corridors 
of Undermountain. However, some speculate tunnels 
may link the dungeon and the Realms Below. 

When Halaster's creatures dug deeper and deeper 
into the earth to construct a home for their wizard- 
master, they discovered the dwarves' abandoned 
mithral mines. Halaster, not wishing to share his 
domain with others, slew the creatures calling the 
chambers and tunnels home. The mad wizard claimed 
the place as his own and expanded his domain even 
deeper. 

The people of Waterdeep, and many of the beings 
in Undermountain, are uncertain whether the mage 
still lives. He would be well over 1,100 years old if 
that is the case. Rumors persist that he moves about 
through the cavern walls (or perhaps it's his spirit), 
watching hapless adventurers invade his home, and 
throwing creatures and traps at them for his own 
enjoyment. Others believe he aids adventurers from 
time to time, keeping monsters at bay when a band is 
too injured to handle another fight. Whatever the 
truth-Halaster does indeed have a presence in the 
deep ways. Death is not a worry for someone so pow 
erful and so tied to the Art as Halaster. 

Some of his original apprentices live in the dark 
and twisting tunnels, having survived the years by 
magical means. High-level player characters are likely 
to encounter one or more of these apprentices - and 
the spirits of people who associated with the Mad 
Wizard or who fell afoul of his magic. However, PCs 
should not encounter Halaster in these levels of the 




6 




dungeon. The Mad Wizard should appear as an 
encounter in only the deepest levels of Undermoun 
tain, or remain a mystery. 

Except for the topmost chambers dug by Halaster's 
foul beasts. Undermountain existed long before 
Waterdeep. However, Halaster's tower came into 
being when the city was just a trading port. He built 
it as far from the port as he could-while still being 
afforded a distant view of the meager populace. 

As the city grew, portions of it came close to the 
dungeon-the sewers and underground storage cham 
bers touched some of the ceilings of the dungeon 
below. One of the first adventurers to return from 
Undermountain built an inn atop the ruins of Hal 
aster's tower. This inn, the Yawning Portal, is detailed 
in the original Ruins of Undermountain boxed set, and 
holds one of the most direct ways into the massive 
dungeon. 

Of course, others returned from the dungeon, car 
rying wealth and news of great beasts and awesome 
treasures. Several shops in Waterdeep prosper because 
of those adventurers. The shops carry rope, lanterns, 
weapons, and other items in demand by those foolish 
enough to brave the dungeon's depths. 

CUmaTe 

Like a giant cellar or basement, much of Undermoun- 
tain, the Deep Levels, is damp and dank. A few areas 
are positively wet -complete with running water, 
ponds, and moisture-covered walls. 

The temperature underground ranges from coolly 
temperate to near tropical. Generally, the deeper a 
character travels, the warmer it gets. Sages speculate 
this is because of volcanic heat or because the center 
of the world is a fiery ball. The truth is, as Halaster 
got older, he went deeper and deeper into Under 
mountain. Preferring warmth to cold, he enscorceled 
the very walls to provide heat. 

The damp climate has caused many of the objects 
within the Deep Levels to rot and decay. The ruined 
materials have made perfect homes for molds, spores, 
and some of the creatures that have come to call 
Undermountain home. 

The air in all of the chambers and corridors de 


tailed in this boxed set is breathable, and most of it is 
clean. However, certain conditions within various 
chambers cause the air to be stale or tainted. These 
are indicated in the text. The fresh air inside Under 
mountain comes from many sources, such as through 
the gates and various magical means. The PCs are not 
in danger of asphyxiation within the deep ways. 

ArzchlTecTuize awd Magic 

Halaster has had centuries to make the underground 
his home. Because of this, many of the areas within 
these levels of Undermountain are smooth, worked 
stone. Some chambers and caverns were carved out of 
the earth, with time and the efforts of the Mad Wiz 
ard's creatures smoothing the rock. However, a few of 
the areas sport columns and elaborate masonry; these 
are indicated within the text. Doorways and doors fit 
tightly into the stonework, and the bulk of them keep 
the moisture in the chambers from ruining the wood 
inside with help from enchantments. The doors make 
airtight seals, keeping gasses inside - or out. Most of 
the doors are made of wood with metal reinforce 
ments. The archways are stone and sometimes elabo 
rate. 

The walls, floors, and ceilings are stable throughout 
Undermountain. The PCs have nothing to fear from 
a natural cave-in. Of course, magic can affect the sta 
bility of various areas, and illusions can make even 
the bravest character believe the earth is folding in 
on itself. 

The very rock that surrounds these levels of 
Undermountain has been enchanted by Halaster and 
his apprentices so that trespassers cannot cast the fol 
lowing spells to enter or leave the dungeon: passivall, 
teleport, teleport without error, word of recall, and 
dimension door. The only way into or out of Under 
mountain is via the gates. However, wish spells might 
function and transport characters to the destination 
indicated by the wish, unless they've caught Hal 
aster's attention . . . 

In addition, Halaster's powerful enchantments pre 
vent adventurers from using ESP, locate object, X-ray 
vison, stone shape (except within the forest), move 
earth, and gate while they are within Undermountain. 





Further, monster summoning spells call only creatures 
that are within Undermountain. Finally, detect magic 
spells will often show all of the floors, walls, and ceil 
ings as magical-in addition to any magical items 
present. 

The enchantments do not prevent PCs from cast 
ing the spells mentioned above; they simply prevent 
the spells' functions. If these spells are cast, they are 
considered lost from the PC's spell repertoire for the 
day. (However, see "Magic-Dead Areas," below.) 

Casting dispel magic to rid Undermountain of Hal- 
aster's enchantments is futile. The process would take 
years and would draw the attention of the Mad Wiz 
ard, his apprentices, and all the creatures that are his 
to command. 

Specific areas within the various levels prevent 
other spells from functioning or from working cor 
rectly. These are indicated within the keyed text. 

Magtc-Dead Aizgas 

Despite all of the spells in place throughout Under 
mountain and the magical items that can be found in 
the dungeon's depths, there are areas where magic 
does not work. These are called "magic-dead" areas, 
and they are the result of experiments both failed and 
successful. Magic-dead areas are listed in the keyed 
text. In addition, DMs might wish to add more 
magic-dead areas, or places where only specific spells 
or spells from certain schools work. 

While in a magic-dead area, PCs can attempt to 
cast spells -but none of them will function. The 
spells are not lost from the PCs' memories, and the 
components are not used up, so the spells are not 
considered "wasted." Further, magical items do not 
lose charges if "fired;" the items simply do not work. 

In a magic-dead area, magical swords act as normal 
weapons, regardless of the enchantment. Magic armor 
and shields are treated as if normal. Bracers, rings, 
and cloaks do not provide magical protections to 
improve their wearers' Armor Class. Therefore, DMs 
must keep track of the type of magical protections 
and weapons PCs are using - the lack of magic will 
affect any combats occurring within a magic-dead 
area. In addition, and much to the chagrin of adven 


turing parties, potions will not work. 

This could pose a hazard to PCs who fall in battle; 
neither priestly spells, paladins' laying-on-of-hands, 
nor curative elixirs and balms will function. 

PCs entering magic-dead areas with active spells 
find those spells negated. In these instances, the spells 
are considered "wasted." Further, PC wizards, bards, 
priests, and high-level rangers cannot regain spells 
while in a magic-dead area. 

Monsters and other creatures entering magic-dead 
areas are under many of the same constraints. Their 
natural spell-like abilities do not work. However, 
there are some exceptions with respect to creatures 
with natural shape-changing abilities. Many monsters 
stay away from magic-dead areas, as they feel uneasy 
in such rooms. Some intelligent monsters with non- 
magical abilities, though, prefer to inhabit magic- 
dead rooms. They realize that adventurers and 
unsuspecting visitors who come to the chambers can 
not employ their magical devices, making them easier 
prey. 

MoMsTeRs 

The inhabitants of the Deep Levels are many, and 
most of them are detailed in keyed caverns and corri 
dors that correspond to areas on the maps. There is a 
never-ending supply of creatures, neutral, evil, and 
good in nature. Halaster's apprentices continually 
bring beasts in through the gates to populate the 
underground and to take the place of creatures killed 
by adventurers and those dying from natural causes. 

It is rumored even the great mage Halaster journeys 
outside of Undermountain to other planes to bring in 
creatures never before seen in the Realms. Sages 
believe he has also corrupted monsters into new and 
deadlier forms via his magical experiments. 

The creatures beneath Water deep have found 
Undermountain to their liking. The steady stream of 
adventurers and fortune-seekers fills their bellies and 
adds to their treasure piles. These creatures are largely 
responsible for the true tales of adventurers who enter 
Undermountain and never return. 

In addition to monsters that populate specific 
areas within the levels of UMTII, DMs might wish 


to add other creatures, especially to corridors and 
areas not detailed on the map. These wandering 
monster encounters can occur when the DM desires, 
or they can occur as determined by the following 
formula. 

For every three hours of game time, a DM should 
roll ld6. A "1" signals the presence of a monster. 

Every time the PCs find themselves in a pitched 
battle where the sounds of clashing swords and flashy 
spells reverberate through the corridors, the DM 
should roll ld6. A "1" means the noise attracted the 
attention of a wandering monster. 

DMs can randomly select the creatures that appear, 
or they can consult the following chart. All of the 
creatures on this chart are from the Monstrous Man 
ual. The number of creatures encountered, and their 
Hit Dice, should be based on the strength of the 
adventuring party. Wandering monsters are not con 
sidered to be in their lairs, and therefore should have 
little or no treasure. Roll ld20. 


1 

golem 

11 ore 

2 

hobgoblin 

12 drider 

3 

phase spider 

13 otyugh 

4 

wererat 

14 umber hulk 

5 

margoyle 

15 ogre 

6 

ooze/slime 

16 bugbear 

7 

minotaur lizard 

17 werewolf 

8 

troll 

18 firbolg 

9 

verbeeg 

19 cyclops 

10 

fire lizard 

20 NPC 


Rumors of the 
Deep Levels 

I t is rumors of treasure and excitement that 
call sell-swords, thieves, and budding wiz 
ards to Undermountain. Ye'll know that wizards 
who have seen many years have learned to avoid 
the dank and dangerous place. There be plenty 
enough magic and excitement in other dun 
geons and above the ground." Elminster adjusted 
his pipe and motioned to a serving girl for a glass 
of wine. 


"Of course, there be rumors abounding about 
Halaster's world. All ye have to do is open your 
ears when you enter a Waterdeep tavern or chat 
a few minutes with battered fighters in Virgins' 
Square. If ye listen carefully ye'll be able to pick 
good knowledge from bad-unless greed gets the 
better part of ye. I've found that only some 
rumors have a basis in fact. And one must always 
look at who is spreading the rumor. Enemies 
could use tales of treasure as a way to get ye into 
Undermountain's deepest levels. Friends could 
use rumors of great evil and horrendous monsters 
to keep you out. Me? I put stock in only the 
rumors I know to be true." 

The following are rumors the PCs can hear in Water- 
deep and nearby cities. These are current tales and 
can be interspersed with the rumors presented in the 
original Ruins of Undermountain boxed set. The 
rumors can be learned in taverns, sold to the PCs by 
thieves and low-level adventurers too afraid to enter 
the place themselves, and overheard in temples to 
the PCs' gods (priests there are undoubtedly healing 
injured adventurers just back from Undermountain). 
Some of the rumors are outright falsehoods, others 
pertain to creatures and objects that can be found in 
detailed rooms and have some semblance of truth, 
and still others must be proven true (or not) by the 
DM. 

DMs should make sure the PCs visit more than one 
place and talk to more than one individual before 
passing out all the rumors. 

• Halaster lives, in a sense, but he is no longer a 
threat to anyone. He is a demilich whose power is 
rooted to one spot. Avoid that spot, and avoid all 
trouble with the Mad Wizard. Halaster's appren 
tices-both living and dead -are another matter, 
however. They are far more powerful than he ever 
was, and they go out of their way to capture and kill 
adventurers. 

• Far below Waterdeep a forest grows. It is more 
beautiful and lush than anything found above 
ground, except, perhaps, in the elven lands. The for- 





est has trees, plants, and animals, and is fed by an orb 
as bright as the sun. It was put underground by Hal- 
aster, who had grown tired of nothing but darkness 
and rock walls. 

• Undermountain has become home to legions of 
undead led by vampires. The vampires have found 
the place to their liking, as in gaseous form they can 
enter and exit the gates without fear of harm. Deep in 
the bowels of the earth they are safe from those who 
would kill them a final time. They come out only to 
capture the living and increase their army of undead. 
If something is not done to end their miserable un 
lives, they will grow in numbers until they have an 
army large enough to wipe out Water deep and the 
cities beyond. 

• The spirits of pirates who used to frequent the 
harbor have found their way into the crawlways and 
tunnels far below Waterdeep. They walk the world 
restless, knowing that their treasure is buried some 
where and they cannot retrieve it on their own. Some 
say they sail the River Sargauth. However, most agree 
that if one of these pirate spirits is laid to rest, it will 
tell you where its treasure is. 

• A powerful druidess lives below Waterdeep. Tales 
say the druidess was banished when she attempted to 
kill the Great Druid and take his place. The Great 
Druid ordered her from his realm, and she took up 
residence in Undermountain. However, a few sages 
say there was no challenge. The druidess elected to 
come below ground; she was unhappy with the people 
of Waterdeep. Time and the lack of true sunlight 
have driven the druidess mad. 

• Some of the creatures that roam the corridors of 
Undermountain are beasts now, but they were Water- 
dhavians and adventurers who risked their lives for 
the chance for wealth under the earth. A magic spell 
transformed them into simple animals-with simple 
minds. Some say a golden-haired bear wanders the 
underground forest. The bear wears a magical neck 
lace that could be sold for a great price. 


• "Feed the lion enchantment and this gate will 
take you out of the dungeon." 

• Trobriand has claimed a level of Undermountain 
for his own, dark purposes. Those who walk his halls 
must watch carefully for the insect-if they wish to 
survive. 

• A rift inside a cavern has linked Undermountain 
to the Plane of Earth. Creatures far worse than those 
Halaster commands, including elementals, are poised 
to move into Undermountain-and perhaps to the 
surface beyond. 

• A magical device that will grant abilities, 
though temporary and at a considerable price, rises 
above the dungeon's floor. A crown is said to grant 
knowledge. 

• A sect of evil clerics has opened up a temple in 
one of the levels near the middle of the dungeon. Per 
haps they work for Halaster. Perhaps they have their 
own malign agendas. It will take people of good 
hearts and pure thoughts to defeat them. 

• The corridors and chambers of Undermountain 
are warming. A volcano grows beneath the earth and 
threatens the existence of Waterdeep. Not all of Hal- 
aster's guards and wards will be able to contain the 
explosion. However, adventurers who have traveled 
the chambers say a magical item exists that will tame 
the earth and send the volcano back to the center of 
the world. 

• Trapped woodland creatures abound in an under 
ground forest, imprisoned by one of Halaster's appren 
tices. Good fortune awaits the individuals who can 
free the creatures and return them to their home 
forests. 

• An enchanted emerald blade, a famed sword of 
sharpness that sheds tears, is hidden somewhere below 
Waterdeep. A one-of-a-kind weapon, it is sought after 
by powerful fighters, rangers, and thieves who believe 
the blade will make them stronger in battle. Unfortu- 






10 


nately, the blade is rumored to have a guardian that 
hides it well. 

• The hoard of a dragon is there for the taking. The 
great beast died -unable to get out of the narrow 
entrance to its cavern and unable to get enough food 
to support its bulk. All you have to do is find it-and 
find a way to carry it outside. 

• A fountain filled with magical waters lies hidden 
in darkness. Drinking from it will add years to your 
life. The water may belong to someone or something, 
however, as all those who have gone in search of it 
never returned. 

• The daughter of a wealthy Waterdhavian family, 
the merchant house Diatre, is missing. Some say she 
ran away with her beloved, a common thief. How 
ever, truth be told, she was kidnaped, taken below to 
marry one of Halaster's apprentices. Diatre has offered 
a 1,000-gp reward for her safe return. 

• A paladin of Lliira, Our Lady of Joy, who entered 
Undermountain to rid it of evil, is being held prisoner 
in the temple the evil god, Cyric. If the paladin is 
released. Our Lady of Joy will certainly reward those 
who freed him. 

• A powerful fighter has made a home in the tun 
nels far beneath Waterdeep. A good-hearted man, 
he gave up life in the city to aid those who braved 
the dangers of Undermountain. Now he devotes his 
life to helping adventurers get out of the deep ways 
alive. If you cannot find a way out of Undermoun 
tain, find the fighter and he will help you. Look to 
the forest. 

• The carcasses of giant-sized elephants - beasts 
who were bigger than dragons -lie in a massive 
chamber far, far, beneath Waterdeep. The tusks from 
the creatures are the purest of ivory and are worth a 
king's fortune. All you have to do is find this burial 
ground and bring the tusks to the surface. Merchants 
are waiting to buy the ivory from you. 


• Sages say dwarves used to populate Undermoun 
tain and that Halaster did nothing more than steal it 
from them. The dwarves, now all dead, mined 
mithral. The mines still exist, haunted by the spirits 
of the slaughtered miners. If you can make it past 
their ghosts, the riches of the mine are yours to 
claim. 

• The thieves' guild known as the Fire Knives 
works in the chambers under the city. Halaster is 
dead, his minions are no more. The thieves who have 
claimed the area kill all trespassers to keep their 
whereabouts secret, and to keep the Lords from 
knowing they're active again. 

GaTes 

T he only way into Undermountain (other than 
using a wish spell) is to enter via one of the 
many gates around Waterdeep and elsewhere in the 
Realms. The gates that access the levels of Under 
mountain, as presented in the original Ruins of Under 
mountain boxed set, will not allow PCs to enter the 
levels presented in this box (unless DMs create new 
gates that permit it). 

Halaster created Undermountain for the conve 
nience of himself, not others. Restricting access to 
various levels keeps Undermountain from being over 
run by adventurers and glory-seekers and merchants 
hoping to fill their shops with trinkets from the 
dungeon. Therefore, adventurers must use different 
gates to enter different portions of the massive 
dungeon -and to leave. To complicate matters, not 
all of the gates send PCs to the same place all the 
time. 

Sages believe that most of the gates were estab 
lished by Halaster. Others were perhaps constructed 
by enemies trying to get at the Mad Wizard. The 
gates created by Halaster are enchanted to cancel 
magical effects passing through them. In other words, 
a party of adventurers hoping to enter unseen via 
invisibility spells will find themselves visible on the 
other side. Wizards trying to cast spells through the 
gates will find their efforts unsuccessful and their 
spells wasted. However, magical items will pass 


11 



through the gates (Halaster's minions and apprentices 
enjoy collecting magic from fallen adventurers). 

Many of the gates have guardians - creatures and 
constructs placed there by Halaster to limit access to 
his realm. Further, monsters roaming the deep ways 
have learned places where humans and demihumans 
enter the complex. These monsters attempt to catch 
the trespassers by surprise. Gates without designated 
guardians may be assigned them by DMs, either by 
personal preference or by use of the wandering mon 
ster chart. 

The gates to and from these levels of the dungeon 
are made in part or totally of stone, a material that 
sages believe is necessary to conduct and store the 
energy required to operate the gates' teleporting abil 
ity. All of the gates created by Halaster are virtually 
indestructible. Only repeated disintegrate spells (com 
bined with dispel magic and others) have had any 
effect on a gate, and this effect caused only a weaken 
ing in the magical field -it did not destroy it. Hal 
aster's magics are so strong that it would take a wizard 
more powerful than he to bring down his enchant 
ments. 

Gates vary in appearance. One might look like a 
massive oaken door set in a stone frame. To pass 
through the door is to enter -or leave-Undermoun 
tain. Another might be a ring of stones on the ground 
that one has simply to step into. They can appear as 
stone columns that must be walked between. Exam 
ples of unusual gates include doors with two handles. 
Using one handle simply allows an individual to enter 
the room beyond. However, using the other handle 
causes a teleporter gate to take effect, propelling the 
individual to a level in Undermountain. Some are 
closets; shutting oneself inside them activates the 
teleportation. Others are more complex, such as step 
ping into a statue when the full moon is directly over 
head, or walking through an alleyway wall as the last 
rays of the setting sun strike the cobblestones in front 
of it. 

Sages have documented some gates so small that 
halflings would be hard-pressed to notice them, 
while others are large - the very walls of a corridor. 
A few are nothing more than etched symbols on 
rocks. Therefore, characters attempting to find gates 


could have a difficult time learning what they look 
like. 

In addition, not all gates operate all the time. 
Some function for only so many hours a day. Others 
operate only at night or during what would be sun 
light above. Some require that those attempting to 
use them know code words or specific actions that 
will trigger the magic. And a few of the gates seem to 
function at times not pinned to phases of the moon, 
seasons, time of day, or anything else that can be 
measured. 

"Ahem!" interrupted Elminster between puffs of 
his pipe. "It seems ye really cannot be dissuaded 
from entering the deep ways, can ye? If such be 
your unswerving plans, then listen well. I'll 
impart a little wisdom about the gates-very lit 
tle, however, as wisdom is a thing to be gotten 
from experience. It is said, and I have great 
cause to believe it, that most of the gates into 
the foul depths of Undermountain have special 
safeguards upon them-fluctuating magics that 
cause most random effects. Perhaps these are 
keyed to phases of the moon or levels and feroc 
ity of the tides. Perhaps they take effect solely at 
the whim of the powers that live within the 
dank corridors. Yet, there is some evidence that 
the randomness of yon magical effects are 
linked to numbers -the number of times a gate 
is used. Therefore, mind ye pay attention now. 

If you be traveling to Undermountain in a 
group, stay together. Entering such a gate indi 
vidually could send ye all to different places. Of 
course, entering a gate individually might not do 
anything at all other than put you in front of 
whatever danger waits inside the Mad Wizard's 
abode. Still, I'll not tell you where these gates 
are. I'll not be responsible for putting you in 
jeopardy. Ye'll have to find others to impart that 
foolish knowledge." The great mage leaned back 
in the chair, eyeing the assembled Waterdha- 
vians. 

"Just mind ye that if ye do enter Halaster's 
dark domain, ye go about searching for a gate 
out-ye'll be needing it." 



Gate CobJ&TCiobJS ais)6 Effects 

The following presents magical effects connected to 
gates. DMs can place these on existing gates detailed 
in this booklet-using them in addition to safeguards 
already in place - or DMs can place them on gates 
they create. DMs wanting to create random effects on 
gates should roll ld20 and consult the following con 
ditions and effects. In addition, DMs are encouraged 
to create conditions of their own. 

Random Gate Effects 

1 This gate, which leads into but not out of Under 
mountain, does not function during daylight hours. 

2 The gate casts faerie fire on all creatures using it to 
enter or leave Undermountain. This spell effect lasts 
for one turn. 


8 Every other individual walking through the gate is 
transported somewhere else. Individuals who are in 
contact with each other, such as holding hands, being 
connected by ropes, etc., count as one person. 

9 A musical tune must be played to activate the 
magic within the gate. The tune must continue to be 
played while individuals are walking through the por 
tal. 

10 An offering of food must be hurled through the 
gate before individuals can pass. Usually this offering 
is consumed by the energies of the gate. However, 
sometimes it is consumed by the creatures on the 
other side. 

11 The gate is a bane to all metal items. Magical 
and non-magical metal objects must make a saving 
throw versus spells at -4 or rust. 


3 Walking through the gate triggers a special dispel 
magic spell-all potions must make a successful saving 
throw versus spells or be rendered useless. 

4 Characters who step through a gate are disori 
ented and dizzy. For the following two turns they will 
be -1 on all combat and saving throw rolls. 

5 The gate does not function unless coins or other 
valuables are tossed through it before adventurers 
walk through. Tolls of less than 5 gp per individual 
are not accepted. 

6 The gate, serving only as an entrance to the 
dungeon, does not function between midnight and 
dawn. 

7 The gate will not operate unless the magic is acti 
vated by feeding it a potion, powder, or similar magi 
cal item. For example, a potion of any value must be 
poured on the gate for its magic to activate and allow 
individuals to walk through it. 


12 Characters attempting to walk through a gate are 
greeted by an illusion of a monster on the other side. 
Usually the illusion is of a creature that can be found 
nearby, such as puddings, molds, or undead. 

13 The gate will not function for individuals who 
have active magical spells or who have magical items 
operating. 

14 The gate casts a hold person spell on each individ 
ual passing through it. Characters who do not make a 
successful saving throw versus spell are held on the 
other side of the gate-victims of whatever monsters 
lurk there. 





13 



15 Each individual passing through a gate must 
make a successful saving throw versus spells or be 
polymorphed into an animal (roll ld20) for the follow 
ing seven rounds. These animals often end up as food 
for the creatures on the other side of gate. 


1 

Rabbit 

11 

Squirrel 

2 

Mole 

12 

Sheep 

3 

Pig 

13 

Duck 

4 

Otter 

14 

Lizard 

5 

Dog 

15 

Weasel 

6 

Toad 

16 

Fox 

7 

Raccoon 

17 

Rat 

8 

Cat 

18 

Hedgehog 

9 

Chicken 

19 

Ferret 

10 

Frog 

20 

Calf 


16 Each individual attempting to pass through a 
gate is subject to the effects of a slow spell unless she 
or he makes a successful saving throw versus spells. 
The slow spell lasts for 1 turn. 

17 The air inside the gate is filled with a Type I poi 
son. All those walking through the gate who are not 
magically or naturally protected must make a saving 
throw versus poison. Those who save suffer 15 points 
of damage; those who fail suffer 30 points. The dam 
age takes effect 2d6 minutes after the individuals 
have walked through the gate. 



18 The gate will not permit individuals taller than 
3' to enter. This limits entrance to short demihumans 
and those who are willing to crawl. 

19 The gate siphons hit points. Fighters suffer ldlO 
hit points of damage from walking through; priests, 
ld8; thieves and bards, ld6; and wizards, ld4. The hit 
points only can be regained through magical healing. 

20 The energy of the gate draws magical charges 
from all items that pass through it. All items with 
charges, such as wands, staves, rings and others lose 
charges. Roll ld6 and consult the following table to 
determine how many charges are lost. 

1 ld4 4 ldlO 

2 ld6 5 ldl2 

3 ld8 6 ld20 

EwTeRlNig the 
Deep Levels 

T he sewers of the City of Water deep link with 
Undermountain in several places - but only to 
the levels in the Ruins of Undermountain boxed set. 
Further, the Yawning Portal, the inn built atop the 
ruins of Flalaster's tower, permits entrance only to the 
topmost levels of the dungeon complex. 

This section details ways into the Deep Levels of 
Undermountain. DMs can alter the accesses as they 
see fit. If player characters become too accustomed to 
using certain gates for ingress and egress, DMs should 
alter the gates or use the table of gate conditions and 
effects to discourage the PCs from becoming too com 
placent. 

Most of the entry points are detailed below; they 
are intended as a handy reference for the DM. The 
information begins with level four in "Wyllowwood," 
as the first three levels were contained in the original 
Ruins of Undermountain boxed set. 

The levels presented in this boxed set can be used 
in any order. 





14 




WyLLoujujooc^ 


• Three miles east of Waterdeep's East Torch Tower 
stands a long-dead copse. The broadest of these now 
rock-hard trunks is hollow. By stepping inside the 
trunk and standing on one's left foot in a small circle 
of stones ringing the inside of the hollow, a creature 
or individual is transported to Room 1 in Wyllow- 
wood, directly between a pair of massive stone pillars. 
Only one human-sized creature can be transported at 
any one time via this gate. 


yards south of the Field of Triumph, individuals walk 
ing between a pair of worn stone arches find them 
selves transported - minus all potions -into the 
waters at Room 16 in Wyllowwood. All beings trans 
ported have faerie fire cast on them. They are perfect 
bait for the creatures swimming in wait there. If the 
moon goes behind a cloud while someone is being 
transported, that individual ends up in a random 
location within Undermountain. 


• In the basement of Twice As Nice, a decrepit 
building housing a resale shop off the Street of Lances 
in the Sea Ward in Waterdeep, a wooden door is set 
into a stone frame. The door is currently hidden 
behind a rack of wine bottles. Persons attempting to 

pass through this gate must save versus poison or be 
struck by a debilitating disease that will sap 1 point 
each of Strength and Constitution a day until the 
victim dies or is saved by a cure disease spell. Strength 
and Constitution points can be regained at a rate of 1 
point/day each by resting. This gate leads to Room 7 
in Wyllowwood. PCs emerging into this room find no 
trace of the door they went through. 

• A massive stone urn in the far northeastern cor 
ner of Heroes' Garden, near the walls of Waterdeep, 
serves as a gate that will transport individuals to 
Room 20, inside a pool at the edge of the under 
ground forest. The gate functions only when the urn 
is at least half-filled with water, requiring about 40 
gallons. Characters submerging themselves in the 
water emerge inside the magical pool, thoroughly 
drenched and often suffering one of the random magi 
cal effects tied to the gates. The urn and pool act as a 
two-way gate, allowing people to return to Heroes' 
Garden or Undermountain - but only if the urn is full 
of water. 


• When the full moon casts its rays upon Seaeye's 
March near the Gulf Leap of Waterdeep, exactly 100 


/x 



• At the intersection of the Street of the Singing 
Dolphin and Ivory Street is the guildhall of the 
Stonecutters, Masons, Potters, and Tilemakers. In the 
basement stands a pair of elegant dancers, chiseled 
from fine marble. The statues, a gift of an old man 
who hired the masons to construct a wine cellar for 
him, are gates to transport individuals between a ran 
dom location in Trobriand's Graveyard and the guild 
hall. The old man was one of Halaster's apprentices 
placing a gate that would allow easy access to Water- 
deep. The stonecutters are unaware of the magical 
properties of the statues, which are only activated 
when an individual skips between them and concen 
trates on journeying to Undermountain. 

• At the intersection of Carter's Way and Coach 
Lamp Lane near Waterdeep's South Gate is the main 
hall of the Council of Musicians, Instrument-Makers, 
and Choristers. In the building's parlor, a series of 
slender stone columns supports the roof. Etched in 
the woodwork where the ceiling meets the walls of 
the main room is an old elven tune. If this tune is 
played, it activates a gate between a pair of the 
columns, the only two that are pale blue. Up to four 
man-sized individuals can walk through the gate at 
any given time. The gate transports individuals into 
the river at Room 17. While the musicians are aware 
of the tune etched into the woodwork, none know 
about the columns (at least none still alive). A few of 
the members of the Council of Musicians, Instru- 



15 




ment-Makers, and Choristers have noted visiting 
musicians entering the main chamber, practicing 
their instruments, and then disappearing from view. 
The council members assumed the visitors left for 
other parts of Waterdeep without saying good-bye. 

• North of Waterdeep is a circle of immovable 
stones. Stepping inside the stones while clouds cast a 
shadow over them transports individuals to a random 
location within the underground forest in Wyllow- 
wood. 

The Huk"T 

M any of the residents in Wyllowwood are 
priests of Malar the Beastlord. The priests 
have found this level of Undermountain a perfect 
home, as it is far away from the prying eyes of goodly 
aligned Waterdhavian clerics and near a lush, hidden 
forest. 

They live in a complex of rooms detailed in the 
section "Wyllowwood: Core Rooms," near the forest. 
Here, they serve Malar, embroil themselves in politics 
and power plays, study various animals they capture 
in the woods, and hatch vile schemes that could harm 
the residents of Waterdeep far above. 

Although the presence of a druid in the forest 
bothers them, they find that she helps maintain the 
woods, and so they accept her - guardedly. 

They consider the presence of wandering adventur 
ers delightful and profitable, as it allows them to con 
duct a great game they have established - the hunt. 
The hunt takes place throughout the Wyllowwood 
level and involves all members of the Malar cult. 
Most of the priests, however, prefer to hunt in the 
underground forest. 

Trespassing adventurers are hunted as if they were 
wild beasts, and their skulls and shields are taken as 
trophies. The Malar priests have discovered that 
hunting humans and demihumans is more challeng 
ing and rewarding than chasing animals. 

The rules of the hunt are simple: The Malar priest 
who captures the most skulls and shields during the 
course of a month is declared the victor and is consid 
ered blessed by Malar. The evil god bestows upon this 


priest a special spell-casting ability for the following 
month that allows all of his spells to function at max 
imum level. For example, a flame strike spell causes 30 
points of damage, and a cure light wounds spell heals 8 
hit points. 

Often the priests will join forces in a hunt when 
the adventurers seem dangerous or numerous. Victo 
ries are split evenly. Priests are allowed any weapons 
and spells at their command to aid in the hunt, thus 
making it more likely that the most powerful priests 
will win. 

It is rare for the entire complement of Malar priests 
to know when adventurers have found their way to 
the Wyllowwood level. The priests do not wish to 
share their victories with all of their brothers, and 
therefore are careful who they alert about trespassers 
to hunt. 

On occasion adventurers will be told they are being 
hunted. The priests involved in this hunt hope the 
knowledge will breed fear in their targets, sweetening 
the final kill. 

Wyiloujajood.* 
Cone Rooms 

Room 1: PldTfotzm of Doom 

You emerge into a cavern and find yourself 
standing in an alcove on a marble slab between 
two massive stone pillars that are roughly in the 
center of the slab. Lit torches protrude from the 
pillars at odd angles, like branches from a tree. A 
closer look at the pillars reveal they are carved 
to resemble trunks, but the chiseled bark is worn 
with age. The floor of the chamber is made of a 
dark, colored stone and has fine, green veins 
running through it; perhaps it is marble. 

The slab extends to touch the cavern's rough- 
hewn walls before and behind you. The soft light 
from the torches plays across the floor and makes 
the shadows dance along the rock walls. To your 
left and right the chamber narrows, and the slab 
you are standing on meets an underground river 
that apparently flows under your feet. 



16 




This chamber is connected to the one-way gate in 
the hollow tree described in the "Gates" section. It 
serves only as one of the entry points into the 
Wyllowwood level, and stepping back between the 
pillars will accomplish nothing. The torches in the 
pillar cannot be removed, as they are actually part of 
the pillar. However, each can be broken off by inflict 
ing more than 20 points of damage to its base. Treat 
the torches as AC 5. The torches' light is a magical 
fire, a variation of the continual light spell, that can be 
extinguished only by a successful dispel magic or con 
tinual darkness. The torches give off no heat and they 
cannot burn combustibles. 

PCs examining the base of the pillars find words 
scrawled in Duergar: "Built we these pillars for our 
own lands. Ours no longer, let them join our bones in 
our underground graveyard. Careful ye be, or ye shall 
soon join us." 

The underground river is 20' deep and flows slug 
gishly to and under the slab. Characters watching the 
ripples in the water can tell by the current that the 
water passes underneath them. 

Adventurers will not be harmed as long as they 
remain on the slab. However, the moment they enter 
the water, either by swimming or walking across it, 
they will be attacked by the freshwater scrags living 
there. Characters who are swimming do not receive a 
Dexterity bonus to their Armor Class. 

The freshwater scrags have made this river their 
home, aware of the food that can be found on or near 
the marble slab. The scrags hide under the slab if they 
hear talking or other noises coming from it. They 
attack the moment someone enters the water. If the 
PCs have a boat or have found a way to construct a 
raft, the scrags attempt to capsize it after the raft has 
moved several yards from the marble slab. 

If the player characters defeat the scrag and spend 
two turns searching directly under the marble slab, 
they can find the creatures' treasure: eight pieces of 
turquoise (worth 10 gp each), a piece of blue quartz 
(worth 60 gp), a piece of smoky quartz (worth 100 
gp), a chunk of sardonyx (worth 120) gp, a jade ele 
phant the size of a man's fist (worth 300 gp), a black 
opal stored in a decaying wooden box (worth 400 gp), 
an arrow of healing (detailed in the "Magical Items" 


section at the back of this product), and assorted 
weapons and armor that are useless because of damage 
from the scrags and the water. 

Traveling west along the river leads to a cavern 
wall. The river flows through cracks in the wall that 
are too small for adventurers to fit through. PCs who 
pass through the cracks by using magic to make them 
selves small or gaseous find themselves in the river 
near Room 2, transported there by spells Halaster has 
placed in the cavern. 

Traveling east along the river from Room 1 leads to 
the abandoned temple that comprises Room 2. 

Freshwater Scrags (5): Int Low; AL CE; AC 3; MV 
3, Sw 15; HD 5+5; hp 30 each; THAC0 15; #AT 3; 
Dmg 2-5/2-5/3-12; SA Nil; SD Regeneration; SZ L 
(8' tall); ML 14; XP 650 each. 


Following the river, you enter an immense cav 
ern, the walls of which emit a faint blue light. 
The air is colder here, unnaturally so. A rocky 
island sits in the center of the river, which has 
widened to fill the chamber. You can see smaller 
branches of the river flowing into passages to the 
west and northwest. The major body of the river 
continues on to the north. 

A stone structure stands upon the island, its 
walls covered with moss. At one time the struc 
ture could have been a temple or a palace; the 
building was certainly large enough. In places 
you note that the foundation is crumbling. It is 
obviously an ancient place, perhaps ruined by 
time and the dampness of this chamber. You see 
no means of entering the building, however 
there are crumbling stairs that lead to what is 
left of the roof. Statues of fighters and robed men 
are placed seemingly at random about the island. 
They are devoid of the moss that covers most of 
the stone on the island. 

The statues have withstood the elements and 
time far better than the building. They are works of 
art that belong where people can appreciate them. 


Room H: 

Temple To The DesTrzoyerz 


17 


The building is a temple that in ages past was dedi 
cated to Talos the Destroyer. However, it was aban 
doned when Halaster's apprentices brought their 
magic to bear on the priests of Talos, who were 
gaining in power and building an army of undead. 
Spies informed Halaster's apprentices that the 
priests had designs on taking over all of Under 
mountain. 

Now all that remains of the temple are some of the 
undead occupants, left by the apprentices to bother 
trespassers in the dungeon. 

The statues radiate a faint aura of alteration magic 
if such is detected for. At one time they served as 
extra pairs of eyes for the Talos priests, allowing them 
to gaze out over the river and watch for signs of trou 
ble. Now the statues stand only as a reminder of the 
craftsmen and priests who once lived here. 

Characters examining the statues discover that the 
workmanship is excellent. The statues seem lifelike. 
PCs with the religion nonweapon proficiency who 
examine the statues are allowed a proficiency check. 
Success means they recognize the markings on the 


warriors' shields and weapons as symbolic of Talos the 
Destroyer. 

Much of the temple is crumbling, and no matter 
how long the adventurers search they cannot find an 
entrance to it by wandering about the exterior of the 
place. However, if they climb the stairs they discover 
an opening in the temple's roof next to a darkened, 
crumbling altar. 

Player characters who touch the altar must make a 
successful saving throw versus spell or succumb to the 
effects of a lost enchantment similar to a feign death 
spell. The affected individuals fall to the ground and 
appear dead -and their companions might think 
them so. The individuals do not appear to breathe, 
and their skin grows pale and cold. The characters 
will remain in this state for 3 full turns (one-half 
hour). They can hear, smell, see, and realize what is 
going on, but they cannot move or do anything about 
their condition. The enchantment was placed on the 
altar so sacrifices would pose no problem and would 
be unable to escape their fate. The priests were pro 
tected from the spell. 











Characters looking through the opening in the roof 
see a darkened chamber below. There is not enough 
light to discern any details about the room. Lowering 
a light shows that the room is large and many piles of 
bones lay scattered about. The remnants of a ladder 
lie on the stone floor 20 feet below. An archway to 
the east and another to the west lead off into dark 
ness. No map is provided. However, DMs can draw 
one if they so desire. 

Bone Room: Centuries ago this was a meeting place 
for the Talos priests. It was filled with opulent furni 
ture. Gold-covered braziers kept the room smelling of 
spice and covered up the scent of the priests' undead 
charges. However, through the decades the temple 
has been looted and damaged. This room and the two 
beyond it are the only chambers left standing. The 
player characters will have to find a way to lower 
themselves into this room if they want to explore the 
temple further. The dimensions of the bone room are 
100 feet long by 60 feet high, with a 20-foot-high 
ceiling. 

The piles of bones are actually skeletons that will 
animate when the PCs touch them. Only one pile 
need be touched for all of them to spring to life. 
Priests cannot turn the bones until after they are ani 
mated. 

PCs searching this room will find nothing of value. 
The halberds are old and rusted and will command no 
more than 4 gp each on the market. 

Skeletons (30): Int Non; AL N; AC 7; MV 12; HD 
1; hp 5 each; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 (bone 
club); SA Nil; SD Edged weapons inflict half damage, 
immune to sleep, charm, fear and hold spells and cold- 
based attacks; SZ M (6' tall); ML Special; XP 65 
each. 

Skeletons, Animal (10): Int Non; AL N; AC 8; 
MV 6; HD 1-1; hp 4 each; THAC0 20; #AT 1; Dmg 
1-4; SA Nil; SD Edged weapons inflict half damage, 
immune to sleep, charm, fear and hold spells and 
cold-based attacks; SZ S (3' tall); ML Special; XP 65 
each. 


Skeletons, Monster (6): Int Non; AL N; AC 6; MV 
12; HD 6; hp 30 each; THAC0 15; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10 
(halberds); SA Nil; SD Edged weapons inflict half 
damage, immune to sleep, charm, and hold spells; SZ S 
(3' tall); ML Special; XP 650 each. 

East Room: Once the sleeping quarters for the Talos 
priests, this 100-foot-long by 40-foot-wide room like 
wise has been looted, and rubble is strewn throughout 
the place. A continual darkness globe suspended from 
the ceiling keeps the place blanketed in darkness - a 
one-time aid to help the priests sleep. Decades ago 
several chambers could be reached off of this room, 
however, age took its toll on the structure and those 
rooms have collapsed. This chamber has become the 
home to shadows who centuries past served the Talos 
priests. The shadows will not join the skeletons fight 
ing in the bone room; they prefer to deal with intrud 
ers who were likely injured by the skeletons and are 
therefore easier prey. The shadows attack when one 
or more individuals have entered the room. Only 
magical light sources will aid the PCs' vision in this 
room. 

Shadows (16): Int Low; AL CE; AC 7; MV 12; HD 
3+3; hp 18 each; THAC0 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2-5+ spe 
cial; SA Strength drain; SD +1 or better weapons to 
hit, immune to sleep, charm and hold spells, unaffected 
by cold-based attacks; SZ M (6' tall); ML Special; XP 
650 each. 

The room contains nothing of value. However, suc 
cessfully searching the room for secret doors reveals a 
small niche in the wall. Inside is a clerical scroll with 
the spells remove fear, enthrall, hold person, hard water 
(listed in the new spells section) and invisibility to 
undead. 

West Room: This 50-foot-long by 20-foot-wide room 
served as a meditation chamber for the Talos priests. 
Here, they would daily pray for their malicious spells 
and consult with each other about plans for taking 
over Undermountain. At one time several passage 
ways led from this room. However, all of those have 
collapsed with time. 



The room is devoid of undead and furnishings. The 
walls are covered with intricate mosaics, which can 
not be clearly viewed unless they are cleaned with a 
cloth or water. The walls are coated with grime and 
dust. 

Characters cleaning off the mosaics are witness to 
artistically-rendered scenes of priests slaying people 
and commanding their undead forms to rise. The 
priests wear black robes shot through with jagged yel 
low streaks resembling lightning bolts. PCs with the 
religion nonweapon proficiency who view the mosaics 
and make a successful proficiency check recognize 
these as priests of Talos. The scenes of violent death 
displayed on the wall are disturbing. Beneath the 
scenes, yet still part of the mosaics, is written: "All 
bow before Talos the Destroyer, the Power of Pande 
monium, the god who holds sway over violent death. 
Yield to him or suffer his wrath. With his power we 
will claim these caverns. With his strength we will 
hold the surface in slavery. With his might we will 
rule the Realms." 

Nothing of value can be found in this chamber. 
And nothing in the temple complex can be used to 
construct a raft. 


The stream is 10 feet wide and 20 feet deep 
through most of the passageway. The rocky walls of 
the cavern meet the edge of the water and prevent 
travelers from finding a place to stand. 

PCs moving along this stream will encounter the 
occupants half-way down its course-a trio of lemon 
fish. The fish are too large to fit through the gate, 
unless adventurers widen the opening between the 
bars. 

For more information on the lemon fish, consult 
the Monstrous Compendium(r) booklet included in 
this boxed set. 

PCs searching the bottom of the stream here can 
find bits of rusted armor and weapons-remnants of 
adventurers who did not survive the lemon fish. They 
have a 5% chance of finding a ring of warmth hidden 
beneath a rusted shield. 

This branch of the stream opens into a cavern left 
for DMs to develop. 

Subterranean Fish, Lemon (3): Int Non; AL Nil; 
AC 6; MV Sw 24; HD 7; hp 35 each; THACO 13; 
#AT 2; Dmg 2-16/7; SA Poison; SD Special; SZ M 
(5' long); ML 11; XP 1,400 each. 


Room 5.* StReam of Death 


Room 4: StReamUwed DaMgeR 


An iron grate running from close to the ceiling 

of this passage and into the river blocks the way. 

The grate runs 20 feet down to the bottom of the 
river. A two-foot-wide gap at the ceiling of the pas 
sage would allow characters to pass over the grate and 
continue on the other side. Large PCs in plate mail or 
PCs weighted down with backpacks and other objects 
will find it difficult to pass through the opening. A 
successful bend bars roll will move the bars of the 
grate enough to allow man-sized creatures to pass 
through at any level. The grate is made of an unusual 
alloy and is not rusted. 

The grate was installed decades ago to keep hungry 
river predators away from the island. At the time, 
Halaster's apprentice, Arcturia, considered making 
the Talos island her home. Although her plans for the 
island never materialized, the grate did. 



An iron grate, running from close to the ceiling 
of this passage and into the river, blocks the way. 
The grate looks similar to the one on the other 
passage, though you can see a place where the 
bars are bent slightly. 


The bars are bent because another band of adventur 
ers tried to find their way into this passage. Fortu 
nately for them, they were not able to get through the 
grating. 

The stream here is 35' deep, and like the other 
branch, the rock walls of the cavern enclose it and do 
not afford a place for the PCs to stand. Roughly 
halfway down the stream, travelers will encounter 
this branch's occupants, a dozen water beetles who 
have not eaten in several days. 

Searching the bottom of the stream reveals more 
bits of armor, weapons, and useless adventuring gear. 



20 



However, the PCs can find one sword that has with 
stood years of resting underwater. This is a khopesh 
sword +1. 

The stream empties into a chamber that is left to 
the DM to develop and populate. 

Beetle, Water (12): Int Non; AL Nil; AC 3; MV 3, 
Sw 9; HD 4; hp 20 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 
3-18; SA Nil; SD Nil; SZ M (6' long); ML 14; XP 
120 each. 

Room 5: Colonf ul Riven 

The walls of the cavern here are covered in 
places with a luminous lichen that cast enough 
light let you see easily. Swirls of color -tur 
quoise, red, green - play beneath the surface of 
the river. Deeper, below the display of color, you 
see a glint of metal. 

If the adventurers are on a raft, they will not 
encounter the river's residents: a school of wattley 
fish, which is making the water appear colorful. How 
ever, if they are in the water, there is a 30% chance 
the wattleys are hungry and will nibble on the PCs. 
In any event, characters who swim toward the 
sparkling colors on the bottom of the river will 
encounter the fish. Wattleys are described in the sub 
terranean fish Monstrous Compendium(r) booklet 
entry included in this boxed set. 

The glint of metal below the wattleys is a nonmagi- 
cal shield left behind recently by a priest of Malar 
who fled while trying to avoid the hungry fish. 

If the PCs kill the wattleys and gut them, there is a 
l-in-20 chance that each fish will have a 50 gp pearl 
or gem in its stomach. 

Subterranean Fish, Wattley (30): Int Semi-; AL N; 
AC 8; MV Sw 18; HD 1; hp 5 each; THACO 19; #AT 
1; Dmg 1-2; SA Paralysis; SD Nil; SZ T (6" long); 
ML 17; XP 35 each. 


Room 6: Passing Wajznlng 

Ahead you see an arched passageway that rises 
to the west away from the river. Steps lead from 
the river into the passageway, and tied near the 
steps is a long canoe. The passageway is not nat 
ural, as it is smooth and tiled. Carved into the 
tile at the base of the archway near the canoe 
are elvish words. 

There are no paddles in the canoe. The owner of the 
boat, Halaster's apprentice Trobriand, keeps those 
with him or hidden elsewhere. The canoe is 12 feet 
long and will comfortably hold four individuals and a 
reasonable amount of belongings. If more than 1,000 
pounds is placed in the canoe, it will sink. The carved 
words read: "Beware what lies beyond. The peril of 
the river pales beside the evil and horrors that await 
within. Halaster rules this domain." 

A few yards into the passage, scratches and deep 
gouges are easily noticed. They are about three feet 
above the ground. Scrutiny reveals they were likely 
made by claws. Indeed, this was the scene of a fight 
between trespassing adventurers and a priest of Malar 
using claws of Malar. If any PC casts a speak with stone 
here, the walls recount the horrific battle in which a 
lone man wearing metal claws killed a group of eight. 
The man dumped the bodies in the river. The walls 
describe the man as muscular and powerful-fire 
erupted from his hands. No further information can 
be learned from the stone. 

Room 7: Emptiness Place 

The gray slate floors, walls, and ceiling of this 
room are immaculate. A wind blows unceasingly 
through it. The room has no features and looks 
as if it was never occupied. There are two arch 
ways leading from this place, one to the north 
and the other to the west. You see only darkness 
beyond the arches. 


This is the fringe of this level's magic-dead area. In 
fact, it is the only room wherein magic will function 
in this complex of rooms. It is clean, simply because a 



21 



permanent gust of wind and a permanent cantrip keep 
it that way. The gust of wind will blow out all torches 
and lanterns. PCs tracking mud, water, or dirt into 
this place will find that the offending substance is 
quickly dissolved. 

This room is also the receiving end of a gate to 
Undermountain (see "Entering the Deep Levels"). 

The archways from this room lead to Room 8 and 
Room 12. If the player characters are carrying magical 
light sources, those light sources will extinguish when 
they are taken beyond either archway. Consult the 
"Magic-Dead Areas" section for more information. 

Room 8: NoT So StueeT Dreams 

A massive four-poster bed dominates this high- 
ceilinged room. The bed must be nearly 20 feet 
wide and more than 10 feet long. The dark, 
carved wood posts attest that ages ago this was a 
work of art, but now the wood is weathered, the 
bed sags of age, and the quilt that covers it is 
moth-eaten. The rest of the furnishings - a desk, 
wardrobe, and chest -are likewise old and 
weathered. The only object in the room that 
seems to have withstood time is a massive 
ceramic tub that is a yard wide and nearly three 
yards long. Despite its size, the tub is dwarfed by 
ornate marble pillars that stand in an "L" shape 
behind it. There are two exits from this room, 
both to the north. 

The room is unoccupied - at least for the present. It is 
not clean like the preceding room, as the effects of the 
magic do not extend here. The creatures in Room 9 
will wait for the PCs to explore the large room for a 
while, separating to examine the furnishings. At the 
most opportune time, the creatures, a half-dozen mino- 
taurs, will strike, gaining a +2 on their surprise roll. 

Characters searching the room will find little of 
interest. However, PCs with the nonweapon tracking 
proficiency can notice tracks in the dust in the floor. 
The tracks, which look like large hoofprints, lead to 
the exits in the north. A successful tracking profi 
ciency with a -2 penalty reveals the tracks belong to 
minotaurs. 


There is nothing in or under the bed other than 
layers of dust. The wardrobe is empty save for one rot 
ting midnight blue robe that was made for someone at 
least nine feet tall. In the pockets of the garment are 
three yellow glass beads the size of small apples. The 
beads are worth 10 gp each. The desk has no drawers 
and looks in a poor state. If anything is set upon the 
desk, or if a character places his hands upon the desk, 
it will collapse. The tub is just what it seems and has 
nothing in it but a layer of dust. The chest at the foot 
of the bed is empty. However, a successful secret doors 
roll reveals a hidden compartment set into the lid. 
Inside the compartment is a giant-sized diary written 
in the language of storm giants. PCs who are able to 
understand the language can read the following 
entries; all other entries are illegible because of the 
rotting paper. 

"How I have come to this place is a mystery. A wrong 
misstep, perhaps, outside of the growing port settle 
ment of Waterdeep. There are beasts here, and 
humans who worship a malign god. I must be careful 
and guard my path until I find a way out. . . 

"Today I saw the priests on the island gather an army 
of undead. I am certain they plan to march against 
the human wizards I have noted. Who will win, I can 
not guess... 

"I realize why this chamber is safe. My magic does not 
work here -not one spell or arcane ability. Devoid of 
magic, this area seems a bane to the wizards and 
priests nearby . . . 

"I have acquired a taste for the colorful little fish that 
swim in the river. To net them is the only recourse, as 
their bite is painful. Still, each is a mouthful, and 
sometimes I find pearls and gems inside . . . 

"In my travels I encountered the ghost of a long-dead 
fighter. At first I was frightened, but then learned I 
could converse with him. He told me I was in Hal- 
aster's home and gave me interesting bits of informa 
tion that I shall pass on, ever I get out of here. 
Among many topics we talked of the Mad Wizard. 



And the ghost said that if I did not find a way out, I 
would join his spirit . . 

Room 9: 

WxTCiyog the Bullpe m 

The creatures lairing in this room, a half-dozen mino- 
taurs, will strike before the PCs enter this room. They 
hope to catch the adventurers separated and en 
trenched in exploring the giant bedroom. The mino- 
taurs know the adventurers cannot use spells or 
magical weapon bonuses against them. 

The room is a shambles of broken furniture, worn 
blankets, and hole-riddled tapestries. Player charac 
ters spending one turn searching through the debris 
can find the minotaur's treasure: 2,000 silver pieces, 
four gems (a tourmaline worth 100 gp, a white jade 
stone worth 100 gp, an amber oval cut gem worth 200 
gp, and a peridot worth 500 gp), a scarlet ribbon of 
Talutah (detailed in the "New Magical Items of the 
Deep Levels" section), and a staff of strength (also a 
new magical item). These items will not radiate as 
magic in this magic-dead area. Because of that, it is 
possible the PCs will overlook them. 

Minotaur (6): Int Low; AL CE; AC 8; MV 6; HD 6; 
hp 33 each; THAC0 13; #AT 2; Dmg 2-8/2-8; SA 
Grapple, charge; SD +2 on surprise roll; SZ L (Wi 
tall); ML 13; XP 1,400 each. 

Room lO: 

Keep Your Trap SbuT 

Designed by Halaster's pet thief, Garrik, this room is 
filled with a variety of devices to test intruders. The 
minotaurs learned the hard way about this place and 
stayed away. 

The room ahead is dark. Dirt covers the floor, 
and it looks like no one has been inside it for 
quite some time. You do not notice any tracks in 
the dirt. In the southwest corner of the room, an 
old chest sits. The padlock on it is broken and 
hangs at an odd angle. 


Trap #1: Just inside the door is a pressure plate, 
which is difficult to spot because it is covered with 
dirt. The plate looks like a section of flooring. Step 
ping on it releases a swinging blade in the ceiling. 
The blade swings from left to right, its arc carrying it 
to just three feet above the floor. Gnomes and crawl 
ing characters are relatively safe; others will be sliced! 
Characters struck by the blade suffer 2-12 (2d6) 
points of damage. The trap can be avoided by jump 
ing over the pressure plate. 

Trap #2: Just beyond the pressure plate is a 10' by 
10' pit that is 20 feet deep. It is covered by a taut 
canvas, that is in turn covered by a layer of dirt. PCs 
can end up in this pit either by stepping on the can 
vas or by jumping over the pressure plate mentioned 
above and landing in the pit. Those falling in the pit 
suffer 2-12 (2d6) points of damage, save for half 
damage. 

Trap #3: In front of the chest is a 5' by 5' pit trap, 
similar in design to the one in the center of the room. 
The pit is 10 feet deep and is filled with rusted spikes. 
Those falling in the pit suffer 1-6 points of damage 
from the fall. In addition, roll ldl2 to determine how 
many spikes they landed on. Each spike inflicts 2 
points of damage. 

Trap #4: The broken padlock is a ruse. The chest 
has another lock inside the face of the chest. This 
lock is trapped with a poison needle, which is set off 
when someone removes the broken padlock or 
attempts to open the chest. Those struck by the nee 
dle suffer 3-12 points of damage, save for half dam 
age. 

Trap #5: There is a secret door in this room that 
leads to Room 11. The door is 3' high and is located 
midway up the wall. The door is locked and trapped 
with a poison needle, similar to the one on the chest. 
Those pricked by the needle suffer 3-12 points of 
damage, save vs. poison for half damage. 

The only thing if value in this room is a copper 
piece sitting atop a crumpled note. The note reads: 

Fools you be for walking where only Halaster's fiends 
dare tread. The reach of the wizard is long, and his hands 
hold many leashes .... Garrik. 





23 



Room 11: ReuuA rib 

This room is dark, but a glint of metal catches 
your eye. Coins are spilled in the southwest cor 
ner of the room. 

Garrik left behind a little reward for those able to sur 
vive his traps. The coins total 100 gp and 300 sp. Sev 
eral of the Malar priests are aware of this trap and 
periodically check it to see if any "hunt" victims have 
accepted the thief's meager treasure. When the coins 
are gone, the priests know it is it time to start the 
hunt. 

Room 12: STbwe Home 

The room beyond is large and relatively clean. 
There are no furnishings, though a round orna 
mental rug, nearly six feet in diameter, covers a 
section of the floor. The walls, ceiling and floor 
are stone. A doorway leads off this room to the 
south. 

This is the home of a pair of stone puddings that are 
resting on the ceiling. If the PCs made a considerable 
amount of noise in Room 10, the puddings will be 
waiting for them, hoping to drop on them from 
above. The pudding is detailed in the Monstrous 
Compendium(r) booklet included with this boxed set. 

The treasure in this room is the ornamental rug. It 
is in good condition and is worth 200 to 350 gp, 
depending where it is sold. If a fight in this room 
takes place over the rug, the rug is considered dam 
aged and worth one-third of its original value. 

Pudding, Stone (2): Int Low; AL NE; AC 4; MV 3; 
HD 5; hp 20 each; THAC0 15; #AT 1; Dmg 3-18; 
SA Special; SD Edged weapons inflict no damage, 
blunt weapons inflict 14 damage; SZ L (7' across); ML 
17; XP 1,400 each. 

Room IS: Cti&Mfog Boards 

The massive room beyond has stone walls and 
ceilings, but the floor is covered with weathered 


panels of wood. A dozen wooden chairs, in vari 
ous states of disrepair, sit about the floor. A door 
way on the south wall leads deeper into the 
complex. 

There is nothing deadly about this room. It is empty, 
and the chairs are worthless. The boards lay across 
the stone floor, put there to cover up a gray mold that 
once inhabited this place. However, adventurers 
walking through the room will find it unnerving. The 
boards creak terribly whenever any amount of weight 
is placed on them. PCs can do nothing to silence the 
sounds, since they cannot cast spells in this magic 
dead area. The creaks alert the heucuvas in Room 14. 

Room 14: Hungry HeucuvAS 

The undead living here are usually left alone. The 
minotaurs let them pass freely, in fact they give them 
a wide berth and treasure to avoid being attacked. 
The pudding has no interest in them either. 

The heucuvas were servants to Halaster and in life 
were magically experimented on by Talosian priests 
who had found their way into the underground. The 
heucuvas roam Undermountain from time to time in 
search of living creatures to slay. They especially hate 
clerics and seek out priests of Malar whenever possi 
ble. They have chosen this room as their lair because 
it is magic-dead; they know Halaster's apprentices do 
not come here. 

If any characters stepped on the creaking floor 
boards in Room 13, the heucuvas will be alerted to 
their presence and will stand on either side of the 
doorway, waiting for their living targets to enter. 

The heucuvas can be turned as wights, as a priest's 
turn undead ability does function here. (The ability is 
not magical in nature; it is granted by a deity.) 

The heucuvas only can be hit by silver or +1 weap 
ons. Since magical weapons will not function in this 
area, PCs without silvered weapons will have to flee 
or perish. The heucuvas will pursue fleeing characters 
to the end of the magic-dead area. 

The room is a shambles, with rotting furniture, 
tapestries, and leather items strewn about. If the PCs 
spend more than one turn searching the room, they 



can find the heucuva's treasure. It is stored in a rotted 
leather backpack covered by bits of broken chairs. 

Their wealth consists of: two silvered short swords, 
a matched pair of ornate throwing daggers (daggers 
+2), 100 sp, 400 cp, a pearl bracelet worth 230 gp, 
and a single onyx earring worth 20 gp. 

Heucuva (5): Int Semi-; AL CE; AC 3; MV 9; HD 2; 
hp 10 each; THAC0 16; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; SA Dis 
ease; SD +1 or silver weapons to hit; SZ M (SVi' tall); 
ML 11; XP 270 each. 

Those injured by a heucuva will lose one point of 
Strength and Constitution a day until a cure disease 
spell is cast. Victims reaching 0 in one or both statis 
tics die. 

Room 15: 

Moldy Sunnousjdisjgs 

Passing beyond the room with the undead, you 
see a smaller room filled with dirt and dust. 
There are pieces of broken furniture and burned- 
out torches lying everywhere. A thin coat of 
dust covers nearly everything. It is noticeably 
cooler in here. 

The dust is actually a patch of brown mold. It will 
absorb the body heat from any character approaching 
within five feet of it, causing 4d8 points of damage per 
round. The creature will double in size if a PC within 
that range is carrying a torch. 

There is nothing of value in this room. 

Brown Mold (1 patch): Int Non-; AL Nil; AC 9; 
MV 0; HD N/A; hp N/A; THAC0 19; #AT 0; Dmg 
Special; SA Lreezing; SD Absorb heat; SZ L; ML 
N/A; XP 15. 

Room 16: Ugly WeCtens 

You are engulfed in a magical blue light and 
plunged into cool, deep water. Cavern walls rise 
to both sides of this river and join to form a 
rocky ceiling overhead. It seems you are in an 
underground river. 





The river's current is relatively swift, though 
you cannot tell its direction. 

The cavern is cloaked in shadows, though 
there is light coming from your forms, and you 
detect a faint light from somewhere upstream. 

Adventurers who step between the statues when the 
moon is full, as indicated in the "Gate" section, end 
up floundering in the water here. All PCs have faerie 
fire cast on them and their belongings, have been mag 
ically stripped of all potions, and are in 20'-deep water. 
Characters in armor could be in danger of drowning- 
especially considering the threat of the trio of sea hags 
living in the water between Room 16 and Room 17. 

The sea hags found their way here nearly four years 
ago and were unable to get out. They have made this 
stretch of underground river their home, preying on 
adventurers who unwittingly find travel through the 
dungeon. The hags have learned not to attack the 
"regular" inhabitants of Undermountain - they still 
bear scars from encounters with Halaster's appren 
tices, Trobriand and Arcturia, and the Malar priests. 
Arcturia stripped these hags of their ability to cast 
their deadly gaze. The apprentice did not want the 
hags to kill outright those who are loyal to Halaster. 

The sea hags will attack the PCs when they enter 
the area of water between Room 16 and Room 17 on 
the map. It does not matter whether the PCs are 
swimming, flying above the water, or using a boat. 
They will likely surprise PCs who entered via the gate 
linked to Room 16 that is described in the "Gate" 
section. 

If the PCs entered Undermountain via another 
gate, they will not have a faerie fire spell on them and 
will not have lost all their potions. Still, they are sub 
ject to the hags' attack. In this case, the hags will 
likely use their change self ability to pose as adventur 
ers floundering in the water. The hags will try to con 
vince the PCs to help them, and they will attack at 
the most opportune moment. 

These hags will not fight to the death. If it is evi 
dent they will lose the battle, they swim to the bot 
tom of the river and attempt to escape. 

The hags' treasure is difficult, but not impossible to 
find. It is stored in a canvas bag hidden among weeds 



25 





at the bottom of the river bed. It will take a few turns 
of searching to find it and a successful detect secret 
doors roll. In addition to the magic in the possession 
of the hags, the treasure consists of: 1,000 sp, a jade 
carving of a dragon (13,000 gp), a coral snuff box (200 
gp), and a pewter goblet (120 gp), and four arrows of 
healing (detailed in the "New Magical Items" section). 

Hags, Sea (3): Int Average (8); AL CE; AC 7; MV 
Sw 15; HD 3; hp 15, 13, 21; THAC0 13 (16); #AT 1; 
Dmg 7-11 (ld6+5); SA Special; SD Special; MR 
50%; SZ M (5' tall); ML 11; XP 675 each. 

Although these hags do not possess a death gaze, 
characters looking at their true forms will grow weak 
from fright, losing half of their Strength score for 1-6 
turns unless a successful saving throw vs. spell is 
made. 

The hags fight with daggers. In addition, some use 
magical items to their advantage. 

Hag #1: dagger +1 

Hag #2: dagger +1, +2 vs. tiny or small creatures 
Hag #3: dagger +1 

Room 17: Hag Haueio 

With a splash you find yourselves sinking in the 
cool waters of a river. It is difficult to see where 
you are, as the water smarts your eyes, and the 
area all around you is cloaked in shadows. How 
ever, you can make out cavern walls that rise to 
either side of the river. The walls join to make a 
ceiling above. It is obvious you are in an under 
ground river. But where? 

This is the receiving end of a gate located in the 
Council of Musicians, Instrument-Makers, and Cho 
risters of Waterdeep. PCs who trigger the gate end up 
in the river at the numbered spot on the map. They 
are subject to the attack of the sea hags, which are 
detailed in Room 16. 

Room 18: Feed The Armais 

A marble platform, dusty pink streaked with 
black, edges out from the cavern wall and 


extends over part of the river. Four braziers, from 
which come flames and the strong scent of 
incense, are spaced evenly along the back of the 
platform. Between the two center braziers, 
which are shaped to resemble lions, you see 
etchings on the cavern wall. However, you are 
not close enough to make out any details. 

Characters will have to climb onto the platform and 
get close to the wall to make out the etchings. The 
words are in dwarvish, and are worn and difficult to 
read in places. Read the following to those PCs able 
to make out the etchings: 

"We will die here, we know. It is only a matter of 
time. Our treasure is the wizard's. We paid for our 
greed with our lives. If only we had something to feed 
the lions. Alas, all of our magic is exhausted. We wish 
you well, those of good heart who follow us. Pray to 
Moradin that you do not share our fate." 

The words were etched by a party of dwarven adven 
turers who came to Undermountain to find riches. 
They knew of the gate and how to feed the lions. 
However, Trobriand caught up with them before they 
could escape. The apprentice wounded them, stole 
their weapons and magic, and abandoned them here 
for the Malar priests to hunt. 

This platform is indeed a gate, one that will trans 
port adventurers to a spire north of Ravens Bluff, the 
Living City. The spire is used as a landing pad for aer 
ial mounts. The lion braziers act as a one-way gate, 
and they are activated by putting a magical item in 
each of the lions' mouths. The magical item can be a 
potion, scroll, or permanent item. Characters have 4 
rounds after placing the items to walk between the 
braziers and appear on the peak. The magical items 
are consumed in the process. 

Room 19: Rising Feeling$ of 
Wlonberz. awd Woe 

A row of small marble platforms, resembling an 
ocean's breakwater, stretch across the western 
side of this river. Beyond them is a larger mar- 



ble slab that has five risers atop it. Beyond the 
risers the river continues, meandering into a 
forest -a great underground forest with an 
open sky. In the distance you can see birds fly 
ing, and you smell the scent of fresh earth and 
grass. 

The forest has no logical place in this under 
ground complex, yet there it is, lush and invit 
ing. The forest has at least two canopies -the 
tallest comprises the massive temperate and 
tropical trees that rise more than 80 feet above 
the floor. The second canopy is more dense and 
is from mostly temperate trees, oaks, willows, 
and more. The mix of trees, bushes, and grasses 
is incongruous. 

A haze rises above the ground, evidence that 
the forest is warm and that it rained here 
recently. The grasses are tinged with dew, and 
the ground is wet. 

An abundance of insects scurries over the 
leaves and swarm in the lower branches of the 
trees. 


Animals are everywhere, too. You can see the 
tracks of small ground squirrels and the paths of 
snakes. Monkeys dance and swing from the 
branches of trees, and bright-plumed birds fly 
over the tallest trees. 

The sun pours down over this idyllic (but 
unsettling) place. 

There is nothing magical or special about the series of 
marble platforms. They are, in effect, marble columns 
that extend from the river bottom 20 feet below to 
two feet above the water. Each is large enough for a 
few people to stand upon. In between the columns are 
strips of marble that also can be walked upon. These 
connect the columns and are only a foot thick. The 
purpose of these columns is uncertain, although it is 
obvious they afford some amount of safety from the 
river and its inhabitants. 

The large marble platform with the risers on it is of 
more interest. There are five risers, each enchanted 
with a magical effect, and each with foot- and hand 
holds carved into the sides so they can be climbed. 



27 








Created by Arcturia and Trobriand as part of an 
arcane magical contest when the pair were attempt 
ing to get along, they have beneficial and harmful 
effects depending on the individuals who step upon 
them. The risers are detailed below. Arcturia and Tro 
briand never accepted each other, and they left the 
risers in place to amuse and puzzle trespassers into 
Wyllowwood. 

A: This riser is 20' tall, smooth and featureless like 
a column, except for the hand and footholds. Elves 
and half-elves who stand atop the pillar and pose like 
a statue gain the use of an augury spell - so long as 
they remain on the pillar. An individual only can use 
this pillar once a day. The pillar's magic does not 
function on humans or other demihumans. 

B: This riser is 10' tall and is rough, as if someone 
began to chisel it, but then walked away from the 
project. Climbing this column is easy. Humans stand 
ing in a marble circle atop it are struck by a confusion 
spell, no saving throw. The effects of the spell last for 
14 rounds. Consult the spell on page 154 of the 
Player's Handbook for the spell effects. Demihumans 
are not subject to the spell. 

C. This riser, appearing as a polished column simi 
lar to A, save for the hand- and footholds, rises 
nearly 15 feet above the marble slab. Any non- 
winged creature or character standing atop it is trans 
ported to Trobriand's Graveyard in the dungeon. 
Trobriand created this as an easy way to travel from 
his level to Wyllowwood. Arcturia, who has wings, 
cannot use it. 

D. Similar to riser C, this column is only eight feet 
tall and has a bronze crown on it. Any spellcaster 
standing in the pink marble circle on the top of this 
column and placing the crown on his head has a ran 
dom temporary magical item stripped from him, such 
as a potion or scroll. This item is lost forever. In 
exchange, the wizard, priest, or bard gains one of the 
following spells that can be used while the character 
is on this level of Undermountain. This spell can be 
cast twice a day, is not considered part of the caster's 
daily repertoire, and does not need to be studied or 
prayed for. The spell gain occurs regardless of charac 
ter class or school or sphere limitations. The spell is 
cast at the level of the caster. The pillar will function 


only once per individual, and will work only three 
times a day. When a character leaves Undermountain 
or travels to another level, the magical ability is lost. 
If the crown is removed, the pillar's magic will not 
function. The crown is worth 280 gp. Roll ld20 and 
consult the table below. 


1 

Detect undead 

11 

Detect poison 

2 

Cure critical wounds 

12 

Spider climb 

3 

Detect invisibility 

13 

Detect magic 

4 

Know alignment 

14 

Tongues 

5 

Cure serious wounds 

15 

Infravision 

6 

Create food & water 

16 

Create water 

7 

Cure light wounds 

17 

Slow poison 

8 

Neutralize poison 

18 

Feather fall 

9 

Speak with animals 

19 

Light 

10 

Resist fire/cold 

20 

Dispel magic 


E. The tallest of the risers, this one extends nearly 30 
feet. Its stone is chiseled to look like the straight 
trunk of a tree. The top of this column is coated with 
a permanent grease spell. Characters or creatures can 
easily climb this pillar. However, once they climb on 
the top of the column, they must make a successful 
saving throw versus spell or fall off the riser and on to 
the marble slab below, suffering 4-24 points of dam 
age because of the hardness of the marble. Those who 
save successfully can receive the benefit of the col 
umn. Any creature who stands still on the top of the 
column for 3 rounds gains a language proficiency. PCs 
who already have the language gain an 18 in that 
ability; if they already have the proficiency at that 
ability level, they are unaffected by the magic of the 
column. Roll ld8 and consult the following chart. 
This riser functions three times a day. 

1 Written language. Elf 

2 Spoken language. Elf 

3 Spoken language. Ore 

4 Written language. Ogre 

5 Written language. Gnome 

6 Spoken language. Bugbear 

7 Spoken language. Goblin 

8 Spoken and written Halfling 


PCs attempting to climb off this column must make 
another saving throw versus spell or fall to the marble 
slab below, suffering 4-24 points of damage. 

Past the risers is the start of the great underground 
forest. The sky is real, hanging over the forest because 
of a massive teleporter set into the ceiling of this part 
of the dungeon. This is the largest gate in all of 
Undermountain. This gate is one way, and fluctuates, 
linking the sky above Waterdeep, Myth Drannor, the 
Moonshaes, and more to this chamber. Birds and ani 
mals finding their way through this gate by flying into 
the teleporter's effects or walking toward a horizon 
touched by the teleporter end up in the underground 
forest. Because the gate is one-directional, the birds 
and animals cannot find their way out. 

The gate brings rain, lightning, wind, and all the 
elements the forest needs. 

Characters attempting to fly out of this cavern 
draw the attention of the green dragon who lives in 
the woods, the priests of Malar, and perhaps one of 
Halaster's apprentices. Further, the flying character 
will discover that his body meets stone, not sky, and 
that he is trapped in the underground woods. He will 
have to find another way out. 

PCs coming upon the underground forest from 
another area should be read the description of the 
forest. 

Room 20: Pool TridbJsponTon 

Beyond the marble breakwater you see a statue 
of a beautiful elven woman. It, too, appears to be 
made out of marble, though the stone is nearly 
pure white. The statue's arms beckon to you. At 
its feet is a crystal-clear pool, roughly five feet 
across. Although the water is clear, you cannot 
see the bottom of this pool. 

The pool is magical and will radiate strongly of 
enchantment magic if such is detected for. Creatures 
stepping into the pool find themselves inside an urn 
in Heroes' Garden. However, this is provided the urn 
is filled. Consult the "Gate" section in this booklet. 
The statue is exquisite. Characters with the Artis 


tic ability proficiency who make a successful profi 
ciency check are certain that this statue was not 
carved by human or demihuman hands -it is far too 
lifelike. 

The statue is actually Sirane, an elven woman who 
accidentally found her way into Undermountain 40 
years ago when she tried to get a drink from the urn 
in Heroes' Garden and fell in. She found herself in 
Undermountain-confronted by Arcturia, who was 
jealous of Sirane's beauty. Arcturia turned Sirane to 
stone. Sirane can be released if the PCs cast stone to 
flesh spell or a properly worded limited wish or wish 
spell. The elf will be grateful and will relate her 
encounter with the winged apprentice. She does not 
know 40 years have passed, and will discover this only 
if the PCs ask the date she entered this cavern or 
relate the current date to her. She wants nothing 
more than to return home, and will either dive 
through the pool to get back to Heroes' Garden (pro 
vided the urn is at least half-full of water), showing 
the PCs a gate that will take them out of Under 
mountain, or she will accompany the PCs until they 
find a way out. The Heroes' Garden urn is described 
in the "Gate" section. 

Sirane, elven female (1): Int Average (10); AL NG; 
AC 9; MV 12; HD 1+1; hp 8; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
Dmg by weapon (she has none); SA Nil; SD Nil; MR 
90% resistant to sleep and charm-related spells; SZ M 
(5' tall); ML 13; XP 220. 

Beyond these objects is the junglelike forest. PCs can 
see it, smell it, and feel a breeze that blows through it. 

Room 21: Mag)c CbesTs 

Large wooden chests, banded with iron and set 
with pieces of polished marble, sit on each of the 
marble slabs that serve as an entrance to this 
narrower section of river. It looks like there is 
just enough room for a few people to stand on 
the slab, next to either chest. 

The chest to the west is magical. It is 10 feet wide by 
five feet deep by three feet high. It is a one-way gate 





that will lead to a random location on Trobriand's 
level of the dungeon. The chest is not locked or 
trapped and appears empty when opened. Creatures 
stepping inside the chest and closing the lid are trans 
ported. 

The chest to the east is not magical; however, 
something within it is. The chest has the same 
dimensions as the one on the west slab and is on a 
slab twice as big. It is not locked or trapped. Anyone 
opening the chest is subject to the effects of the mir 
ror of opposition that is set inside the chest's lid. There 
is only a 10% chance that those opening the chest 
will not see the mirror. Exact duplicates of the char 
acters looking into the mirror will be created, making 
it a little crowded on the slab. The duplicates have all 
the magic and power of the originals, and they will 
fight to the death. Upon the duplicates' death, they 
disappear. 

Inside the chest is a red cloth that covers the entire 
bottom. Under the cloth is a mirror of life trapping that 
covers the bottom of the chest. Determine a charac 
ter's chance of looking at the mirror, depending on 
how he or she retrieved the cloth. If a character looks 
at the mirror, he must save versus spell or become 
trapped inside one of the mirror's cells. Breaking the 
mirror will retrieve the trapped individual - along 
with the other creatures trapped (an ogre and a were 
wolf). The trapped creatures fight to the death, believ 
ing the PCs trapped them in the mirror. Because of 
the limited room, the creatures attempt to push the 
PCs into the river. In addition, the merrows leap into 
the river and attempt to fight from the water. 

Ogre (1): Int Low (5); AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; HD 
4+1; hp 21; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10; SA Nil; 
SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ L (9' tall); ML 11; XP 175. 

Merrow (2): Int Average (8); AL CE; AC 4; MV 6, 
Sw 12; HD 4+4; hp 24 each; THACO 15; #AT 3; 
Dmg 1-6/1-6/2-8; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ L (9' 
tall); ML 12; XP 270 each. 

Lycanthrope, Werewolf (1): Int Average (10); AL 
CE; AC 5; MV 15; HD 4+3; hp 23*; THACO 15; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2-8; SA Nil; SD Hit only by silver or + 1 


or better weapons; MR Nil; SZ M (6' tall); ML 12; XP 
420. 

There is a 1% chance per point of damage inflicted 
on a target that the target will contract lycanthropy. 
See the Monstrous Compendium(r) entry on "lycan 
thrope, general" for more information. 

• The werewolf is wearing a vest of health, which 
cannot be noticed until after he is killed and his 
human form appears. The vest, a new item described 
in the "New Magical Items" section, allows the crea 
ture wearing it to ignore the first 24 points of damage 
per day inflicted on the creature. Any damage 
inflicted against the werewolf will first apply to the 
vest. If the PCs defeat the werewolf and take the vest, 
it will not function for them until the following day. 

Room 2.2.: 

CballewgtMg CaveRw 

Around a bend in the river you spot a cavern 
that rises away from the river to the east. It is 
filled with rocky columns, and in the meager 
light coming from the luminescent lichen on the 
walls, you can see a few coins glinting. 

This is the lair of a band of bi-nou. These new 
rock creatures are detailed in the Monstrous 
Compendium booklet inside this boxed set. 

The bi-nou will attack any creatures entering their 
cavern. They will make a contest of the killing. Their 
initial ploy will be to cast one or more wall of stone 
spells to prevent their targets from escaping into the 
river. 

Once the bi-nou are dealt with, the PCs can find 
the creatures' "treasure." This consists of one bi-nou 
egg, three suits of chain mail (two human-sized, one 
dwarven), two silvered long swords, and one silvered 
khopesh sword that is is poor condition. The dwarven 
suit of chainmail is +2. 

Bi-nou (4): Int Very (11); AL N; AC 1; MV 6; HD 
5+5; hp 30, 30, 24, 33; THACO 15; #AT 2; Dmg 
1-8/1-8; SA Squeeze, spells; SD Immune to mind- 
affecting spells; MR 20%; SZ M (6' tall); ML 13; XP 
975 each. 



Each bi-nou can cast the following spells once a 
day at 10th level of effectiveness: dig, stone shape, wall 
of stone. 

Room 23: M&Lar Passage 

Rising up from the river and to the west is a pas 
sage that leads into a chamber beyond. Light 
spills from the passage, making it impossible to 
determine anything about the chamber. Carv 
ings of animals cover the walls and ceilings of 
the passage. A post rising from the river near the 
passage entrance is likely intended for securing 
boats. 

The passage is enchanted, designed to impart knowl 
edge to Malar initiates. By touching a creature dis 
played on the wall or ceiling, the initiate learns the 
name of the creature, the type of terrain it can be 
found in, and some of the lands in the Realms where 
it lives. The majority of the creatures displayed are 
great cats, herd animals, snakes, lizards, fish, wild 
dogs, birds, and other common animals. 

There are no magical or fantastic creatures dis 
played. 

Characters who go beyond the passage enter the 
realm of the Malar priests. In addition to the priests 
detailed in each room, the player characters can 
encounter the Malar priests listed in the Nonplayer 
Character section of this booklet. 

Room 24: Room of Wisdom 

As in the passage you just left, the walls and 
ceiling of this room are covered with carvings of 
animals. The stone floor is painted white and 
black, resembling the stripes of a zebra. In the 
center of the room are two large cages. One con 
tains a sleeping cheetah, the other is empty. 
Simple wooden chairs are spaced unevenly 
about the room, between the wall-mounted 
torches. The room seems unusually quiet. 

A permanent silence spell has been placed on these 
walls to keep the animal noises from disturbing the 


priests in nearby rooms. PCs entering the room will 
quickly notice the effect, as they cannot hear their 
own footfalls. (This also means that spells requiring 
verbal components are rendered useless in this room.) 

There is a 50% chance six initiates will be in this 
room studying the cheetah in the cage. They commu 
nicate via gestures. Initiates will not immediately 
attack trespassing characters. Via gestures, they 
attempt to learn if the PCs are loyal to Malar. PCs 
who are not able to quickly convince the initiates 
that they worship the Beastlord will be attacked. 

The initiates fight to the death. However, one or 
more will try to escape to alert more powerful priests 
about the trespassers. 

If the PCs capture any of the initiates and question 
them in another area, the initiates reveal that this 
area of Undermountain is sacred to Malar the Beast- 
lord, and intruders who threaten this place will face 
the wrath of powerful priests and perhaps the god 
himself. Further questioning reveals that there is a 
high priestess somewhere in Undermountain and a 
pair of brothers who are rising in the ranks of the 
temple. The initiates tell the PCs they are doomed, as 
now the rest of the priests will know there are tres 
passers, who will become the subjects of a great hunt. 
DMs should pay attention to where the PCs take any 
captured initiates, as this could alert priests in other 
rooms. 

The cages in the room are magical. Each cage 
weighs approximately 400 pounds and is made of 
thick iron. They measure 12 feet deep by 12 feet wide 
by 8 feet high. By stepping inside the empty cage and 
concentrating on the animal in the other cage, the 
individual trades minds with the animal. For exam 
ple, the cheetah's mind would switch into the body of 
a PC, and the PC's mind would be in the body of the 
cheetah. The mind transference lasts for one hour, 
unless a remove curse, limited wish, or wish is cast ear 
lier. Mind transfers only can occur with creatures of 
animal intelligence or less. 

Initiates (6): Int Exceptional (16); AL CE; AC 8 
(leather robes); MV 12; HD 1 (PI); hp 8 each; 
THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 (staff); SA Spells; SD 
Spells; MR Nil; SZ M (6' tall); ML 15; XP 65 each. 


31 



Each initiate has the following spells in memory: 
cause light wounds x2. These spells cannot be cast in 
the silenced room. 

Cheetah (1): Int Animal (1); AL N; AC 5; MV 15, 
Sprint 45; HD 3; hp 15; THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg 
1-2/1-2/1-8; SA Rear claws 1-2 each; SD Surprised 
only on a 1; MR Nil; SZ M (4'); ML 9; XP 175. 

Room 25: CteizIcAt Studies 

Tapestries woven with the images of fantastic 
and magical beasts line the walls of this room. 
Thick rugs resembling grass cover the floor. 
There are no other furnishings. 

In this chamber Malar priests meditate and pray for 
their spells. There is a 60% chance four priests and a 
70% chance four initiates will be here. If priests are 
present, they move to attack the PCs immediately, as 
they bear no symbol of Malar. The hunt is on, and 
each priest hopes to score at least one skull or shield. 

The priests begin their attacks with their charm per 
son or mammal and heat metal spells. If only initiates 
are present, they will not attack until they have 
determined the PCs are intruders. No matter who is 
present, one priest or initiate will attempt to escape 
to warn the priests in Room 26 that there are intrud 
ers. The hunt is on. 

In addition, combat in this room will rouse any 
priests in Room 27. It will take four rounds for these 
priests to join the fray. 

Initiates (4): Int Exceptional (16); AL CE; AC 8 
(leather robes); MV 12; HD 1 (PI); hp 8 each; 
THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 (staff); SA Spells; SD 
Spells; MR Nil; SZ M (6' tall); ML 15; XP 65 each. 

Each initiate has the following spells in memory: 
cause light wounds, cure light wounds. 

Priests (4): Int Exceptional (16); AL CE; AC 8 
(leather robes); MV 12; HD 4 (P4); hp 24 each; 
THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6+1 (staff +1); SA 
Spells; SD Spells; MR Nil; SZ M (6' tall); ML 16; XP 
270 each. 


Each priest has the following spells in memory: 
Animal friendship, invisibility to animals, cure light 
wounds x2, cause light wounds, charm person or mam 
mal, heat metal, speak with animals, slow poison. 

There is a 25% chance a priest will have one of the 
following potions: healing, animal control, plant control, 
or sweet water. 

Room -2(5: BeasTLy Steepens 

Eight rows of bunk beds tiered four high and 
small wooden tables fill this room. There are 
eight clothes chests and three book cases at the 
far end of the room. All of the furnishings are 
plain, but appear functional. The room seems 
unusually quiet. 

The initiates and priests of lst-4th level sleep here. 
There are places for 20 initiates and one dozen 
lst-4th level priests. There is a 50% chance three 
priests and six initiates will be found here. 

This room is under a permanent silence spell so the 
priests can sleep and study without interruption. 

The clothes chests contain leather robes, cloth 
robes, and cloaks-all embroidered with the symbols 
of the Beastlord -of various colors, slippers, soft 
leather boots, and small pouches stamped with initials 
and containing a total of 12 pp, 230 gp, 340 sp, and 
120 cp. In addition, each chest has ld6 bleached 
human skulls inside-trophies from the hunt. 

Initiates (6): Int Exceptional (16); AL CE; AC 8 
(leather robes); MV 12; HD 1 (PI); hp 8 each; 
THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 (staff); SA Spells; SD 
Spells; MR Nil; SZ M (6' tall); ML 15; XP 65 each. 

Each initiate has memorized the following spells: 
cause light wounds, cure light wounds. 

Priests (3): Int Exceptional (16); AL CE; AC 8 
(leather robes); MV 12; HD 4 (P4); hp 24 each; 
THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6+1 (staff +1); SA 
Spells; SD Spells; MR Nil; SZ M (6' tall); ML 16; XP 
270 each. 

Each priest has the following spells in memory: 
Animal friendship *2, cure light wounds, cause light 



wounds x2, charm person or mammal, heat metal *2, 
speak with animals. 

There is a 25% chance a priest will have one of the 
following potions or scrolls: extra-healing, sweet water, 
poison, vitality, scroll of protection from plants, scroll of 
protection from lycanthropes, scroll of protection from 
water. 

Room -27.* 

STkewgffaewtwg The Body 

The stone walls and ceiling of this room are 
bare. A large, black, woven cloth mat dominates 
this place, nearly filling the room. Two cots cov 
ered with heavy blankets and two chests occupy 
the southeast corner. Dented shields ring the 
room, leaning against the walls. 

Brynd and Mirko, two fighters loyal to Malar, train 
priests to be better fighters. There is a 50% chance 
that at any given time the fighters will be instructing 
two priests of 4th level and two priests of 5th level. 
Otherwise, there is a 25% chance the fighters will be 
here alone, resting or sleeping. 

Unless the PCs have taken precautions to dress 
themselves in the priests' leather robes, the occupants 
of this room recognize them as trespassing adventurers 
and start a fight. These NPCs fight to the death. The 
fighters engage the closest PCs in melee, attempting 
to give any priests time to cast spells. 

If the PCs were involved in a fight in Room 25, it 
is likely any occupants of this room joined the battle. 
In this event, the room will be empty. 

The massive chests contain the belongings of the 
fighters-assorted clothes, dice, two daggers, slippers, 
38 pp, 120 gp, and four black pearls (each worth 60 
gp). In addition, each chest contains eight bleached 
human skulls-the fighters occasionally participate in 
the hunt. The shields are also hunt trophies. 

Eul, Dormit, priests (2): Int Exceptional (16); AL 
CE; AC 8 (leather robes); MV 12; HD 4 (P4); hp 24 
each; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6+1 (staff+1); SA 
Spells; SD Spells; MR Nil; SZ M (6' tall); ML 16; XP 
270 each. 


Each priest has memorized the following spells: 
Animal friendship, invisibility to animals, cure light 
wounds x2, cause light wounds, charm person or mam 
mal, heat metal, speak with animals, slow poison. 

There is a 40% chance a priest will have one of the 
following potions: healing, extra-healing, elixir of health. 

Takund, Wert, priests (2): Int Exceptional (16); AL 
CE; AC 5 (bracers of defense AC 6 + DEX); MV 12; 
HD 5 (P5); hp 32 each; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg 
1-6+2 (staff+2); SA Spells; SD Spells; MR Nil; SZ M 
(6' tall); ML 16; XP 420 each. 

Each priest has memorized the following spells: pro 
tection from good, animal friendship, invisibility to ani 
mals, cure light wound, cause light wounds, chant, 
spiritual hammer, resist fire/resist cold, speak with ani 
mals, slow poison, curse. 

There is a 40% chance a priest will have one of the 
following potions or scrolls: potion of extra-healing, 
potion of vitality, scroll of protection from magic, scroll 
of protection from cold. 

Brynd, Mirko, fighters (2): Int Average (10); AL 
CE; AC 3 (chain mail, shield +1); MV 9; HD 7 (F7); 
hp 40 each; THACO 14; #AT 2/3; Dmg 1-8+2 (long 
sword +2); SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ M (6' tall); 
ML 17; XP 420 each. 

Room -28.* W orzshfp Room 

The beauty of this narrow room is intoxicating. 
The floor is covered with polished green marble, 
the ceiling is aglow from what is obviously a light 
spell, and the walls are painted with forest 
scenes. It looks almost as if you are stepping into 
a clearing in the woods, so lifelike are the paint 
ings. In the center of a room is a raised slab of 
polished white stone. 

This is where the priests and initiates conduct wor 
ship services to Malar when the weather in the forest 
outside is stormy. The altar is magical, and each priest 
praying at it gives a gift of water, earth, or food. The 
altar absorbs the material and bestows the priest a +1 
saving throw bonus that will last for the next four 






33 



hours. Any adventurer leaving a similar gift also will 
enjoy the saving throw bonus. However, the adven 
turer will feel tainted in some way. 

There is a 50% chance 1-4 priests of 1st to 4th 
level are here. Use the priest statistics from a previous 
encounter. 

Rooms 29-31: 

PftfesT QuarXbtis 

Though spartan in furnishings, this room seems 
elegant. The beds are covered with thick quilts, 
and the huge chests at the end of each bed are 
made of polished wood. A small continual light 
globe hangs just inside the doorway. The walls 
are natural stone, as if this room were chiseled 
out of rock. The light makes interesting patterns 
as it plays over the cracks and crevices in the 
walls. 


of this booklet. The high priestess lives simply, devot 
ing all of her energy and resources to spreading 
Malar's evil faith. 

Although the priestess knows none of the other 
priests or initiates would dare trespass in this place, 
she is not so sure about the other inhabitants of 
Undermountain. Therefore, she has placed guardians 
in this room: a pair of spitting snakes that lie in wait 
under the bed. The charmed snakes have been trained 
to attack all those, other than their mistress, who 
search the room. If the intruders do not come near 
the bed, the spitting snakes will come out to get 
them. 

Under the bed is a small bronze chest filled with 
clerical scrolls. The spells on the scrolls are: Find 
familiar, hold metal *2, speak with animals x3, familiar 
sight, float x2. Also in the chest are a half-dozen silver 
Harper pins. Lying loose under the bed are 22 
bleached human skulls. 


The brother priests mentioned in the NPC section 
live here. There is a 20% chance trespassing adventur 
ers will encounter the brothers here. The chests are 
locked and fire trapped. They contain changes of 
clothes, slippers, a potion of extra-healing, and 300 gp. 
One chest contains 12 bleached human skulls and two 
dented buckler shields. The other chest contains 11 
bleached human skulls and a medium-sized shield +1. 

The priests will attempt to summon other priests to 
aid them. 

Room 32: 

High PftfesTess's Quarters 

This room is simply decorated. A white quilt 
covers a narrow bed. Near it is a small night- 
stand filled with thick, white candles. Rugs 
woven with the images of fantastic creatures 
cover most of the floor. The most striking feature 
of this room is an altar decorated in silver and 
bronze designs: claws, fangs, beaks, and eyes. 
Beyond the altar is a massive upright chest. 

This room and its contents belong to the high priest 
ess of Malar, Benita. She is listed in the NPC section 


Snakes, spitting (2): Int Animal (1); AL N; AC 5; 
MV 12; HD 4+2; hp 22 each; THACO 17; #AT 2; 
Dmg 1-3; SA Spits poison; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ M (8' 
long); ML 16; XP 650 each. 

The snakes can shoot their potent venom up to 30 
feet. The venom has an onset of 1 round. Those who 
are struck by the spittle and who fail a saving throw 
vs. poison at a -3 penalty. Those who make a success 
ful saving throw suffer 25 points of damage. 

Benita, high priestess (1): Int Highly (17); AL CE; 
AC -2; MV 12; HD 17 (P17); hp 79; THACO 10; 
#AT 2 or 1; Dmg 1-6+1/1-6+1 (claws of Malar) or 
1-6+4 (mace +3); SA Spells; SD Spells; MR Nil; SZ 
M (5'6"); STR 17, INT 17, WIS 17, DEX 19, CON 
18, CHR 15; ML 17. 

Spells: Bless, animal friendship *2, invisibility, to ani 
mals, cure light wounds *4, create water, augury, find 
traps, speak with animals *3, messenger, chant, spiritual 
hammer, slow poison, hold animal, hold metal *2, sum 
mon insects *2, prayer, speak with dead *2, repel insects, 
produce fire, cure serious wounds *3, cause serious 
wounds *2, animal growth *3, cure critical wounds *2, 
break limb, heal, harm, stone tell, animate rock. 


Room 5 5: GuesT Lodging 

This room is furnished plainly, yet comfortably. 
Four well-padded beds dominate the room. Next 
to each is a small nightstand filled with unlit 
tapers. 

This room is for visiting Malar worshippers. Some 
times priests and other supporters from Waterdeep are 
hidden here if they are being sought on the streets 
above. There is a 20% chance 1-4 visitors of any 
level and class will be present. It is up to the DM to 
detail the visitors. 

Room 54: PrzftesTs Home 

Though the furnishings are simple and are made 
out of wood, this room belongs to someone of 
wealth. The woven rug on the floor must be 
worth hundreds of gold pieces. A thick black 
quilt covers the bed, and the chest at its foot 
appears to be of hand-carved ebony. A small 
continual light globe hangs just inside the door 
way. On a high shelf next to it is a dark cloth 
that is likely used to dim the light. On a longer 
shelf nearby rest 18 polished skulls. The light 
reflects eerily off the bones. The walls are nat 
ural stone, as if this room was chiseled out of 
rock. The light plays over the cracks and 
crevices of the walls. 

This room belongs to Mai. He is detailed in the NPC 
section in this booklet. There is a 20% chance he will 
be present. Mai's only defense of this room is the 
ornamental rug, which is actually a rug of smothering. 
The other priests in this area know the rug is danger 
ous and stay out of Mai's room. Unlike other similar 
rugs, this magical item needs no command. Anyone 
touching the rug, as if to examine it, or anyone step 
ping upon it will be automatically surprised. The rug 
animates and tightly wraps around the individual, suf 
focating him in ld4+2 rounds. The only spells that 
can prevent the smothering are animate object, hold 
plant and wish. The rug has an Armor Class of 7 and 
must be dealt 40 points of damage before it is harmed 


enough to release its victim. One-half of all damage 
dealt the rug will also be suffered by any victim inside. 

Room 55: PrzfesVs WaTcb 

A square stone building sits atop a marble slab at 
the shore of the river and the edge of the under 
ground forest. A wooden door seems to be the 
only way into the structure. 

The high priestess orders four 4th-level priests to stay 
here so they can keep an eye on activities in the for 
est and along the river. 

If they notice anything too unusual, especially 
something that might jeopardize the Malar cult, one 
or more of the priests will summon other priests from 
Rooms 24-34 to deal with the matter. 

Inside the stone building are their living quarters. 
One or two priests always will be on guard outside the 
building, with the remainder resting inside. The 
priests' wealth (10-100 gp each) is kept in small cof 
fers under their beds. 

Another dozen 4th-level priests are assigned to 
patrol the woods in groups of three for days at a time, 
searching for adventurers to hunt. 

Priests (4): Int Exceptional (16); AL CE; AC 8 
(leather robes); MV 12; HD 4 (P4); hp 24 each; 
THAC0 18; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6+1 (staff+1); SA Spells; 
SD Spells; MR Nil; SZ M (6' tall); ML 16; XP 270 
each. 

Each priest has memorized the following spells: 
Animal friendship, invisibility to animals, cure light 
wounds x2, cause light wounds, charm person or mam 
mal, heat metal, speak with animals, slow poison. 

There is a 25% chance a priest will have one of the 
following potions: healing, extra-healing, elixir of health. 

Patrol priests (12, encountered in groups of 3): Int 

Exceptional (16); AL CE; AC 8 (leather robes); MV 
12; HD 4 (P4); hp 24 each; THAC0 18; #AT 1; Dmg 
1-6+1 (staff +1); SA Spells; SD Spells; MR Nil; SZ 
M (6' tall); ML 16; XP 270 each. 

Each priest has memorized the following spells: 



Animal friendship, invisibility to animals, cure light 
wounds x3, charm person or mammal, heat metal, speak 
with animals, slow poison. 

Each of these priests has one of the following 
potions: healing, extra-healing, elixir of health, invisibil 
ity, fly, clairaudience, clairvoyance, or ESP. 


Room 3 6: WyLLocu's Wood 

As lush as any jungle or forest on the land 
above, this massive area of life and vegetation 
spreads out before you. The trees are healthy, 
thick-leaved, and tall; some tower more than 80 
feet, their leafy canopies stretching to the glow 
ing sun above. The roof of the cavern, or per 
haps the sky, is somewhere beyond-you cannot 
tell how high it is. The sun, or something 
approximating the sun, shines down on the 
entire forest. Steam rises from the ground in 
places, and you can see pools of water here and 
there. It appears to have rained recently. 


Roll Creature 

1 Giant skunks 

2 Owlbears 

3 Weretigers 

4 Korred 

5 Giant hornets 

6 Cockatrice 

7 Great cats 

8 Firbolg 

9 Ettercaps 

10 Dryads 


Roll Creature 

11 Constrictors 

12 Giant scorpions 

13 Lizard men 

14 Giant wasps 

15 Flinds 

16 Chimera 

17 Tenebrous worms 

18 Shambling mound 

19 Dangerous plant 

20 Apes 


Room 37: Marble CoLumws 

Similar to the marble structures you saw in the 
river and along its bank, these off-white pillars 
rise from 20 to 30 feet at various points and seem 
to be connected along their tops by a narrow 
marble bridge. Hand- and footholds can be seen 
in several of the columns. One of the columns is 
green, perhaps covered by moss. 


This place is just as it seems: a forest thriving inside a 
dungeon. The sun, rain, wind, and animals are 
brought to the woods by the massive teleporter set 
into the ceiling of the woods. 

There are several areas within the forest that are 
detailed below by numbers. In addition, DMs are 
encouraged to add their own unique touch of encoun 
ters and obstacles to this place. Several NPCs, includ 
ing the insane druidess and the green dragon, can be 
found inside the jungle. 

Furthermore, below is a random encounter table 
detailing creatures that can be found within the jun 
glelike forest. This does not include common animals 
and plants. Roll ld6 for every hour of daytime the 
PCs spend in the woods. A "1" indicates an en 
counter. Roll ld20 and consult the chart. Roll for a 
random encounter every half-hour the PCs spend in 
the woods at night. All of these creatures can be 
found in the Monstrous Compendium(r) Volumes 
One and Two and in the Monstrous Manual. 



The marble columns and walkways were created as a 
means of transportation decades ago so the druidess's 
husband could travel throughout the forest without 
encountering the many plants and animals there. He 
enchanted one of the columns, the only jade-green 
one, so he could learn more about the woods in hopes 
of pleasing his wife. Of course, as the forest grew, the 
marble walkways no longer went over the top of it, 
but through the leafy canopy. 

Decades ago the green pillar was guarded by wards 
and fire trap spells. However, that magic faded with 
time, allowing anyone in the forest to benefit from 
the pillar's magic. 

By standing or sitting on the raised disk on the 
jade-green column, and clearing all thoughts, the user 
is stripped of one random proficiency. However, two 
more take its place. Roll ld20 and consult the follow 
ing chart. 


Roll 

1 

2 

3 


Proficiency 
Agriculture 
Animal handling 
Animal lore 





36 



4 Animal training, dogs 

5 Animal training, cats 

6 Animal training, elephants 

7 Animal training, falcons 

8 Animal training, monkeys 

9 Animal training, weasels 

10 Animal training, parrots 

11 Animal training, lizards 

12 Hunting 

13 Fishing, rivers 

14 Survival, forests/jungles 

15 Tracking 

16 Herbalism 

17 Direchon sense 

18 Animal noise, wolves 

19 Animal noise, birds 

2 0 Weather sense 

The pillar will function up to 10 times a day, but only 
once per day on any given person. Therefore, an indi 
vidual could come to this pillar each day, losing one 
random proficiency and gaining two. It is possible to 
lose one of those gained from this pillar on a previous 
occasion. 

The pillar to the right of the jade pillar has a 
raised, black marble surface in the center of it. This is 
a teleporter that will transport anyone standing on it 
to the Examination Room (Room 4) in Trobriand's 
Graveyard. 

The pillar to the left of the jade one, also a tele 
porter, has a random effect. Roll ldlO and consult the 
table below to determine where individuals are trans 
ported. Up to four characters can fit on this disk at 
any given time. It is likely adventuring parties using 
this disk become separated. 

Roll Destination 

1 Room 7 on this level 

2 Daggerdale 

3 Malar temple, Thay 

4 A forest in the Moonshaes 

5 The rocky island. Room 2 

6 Empty cavern, this level 

7 Desolate Kara-Tur hill 

8 The PC's home 


9 Random, Trobriand's Graveyard 

10 Yawning Portal booth 

At one time these teleport pillars were magically 
guarded. However, that magic has long since weath 
ered away. 

Room 38: 

Pool of Death Reuoafcd 

A pond, roughly 30 feet across, fills the center of 
a small clearing. Moss grows on the edges of the 
pond and over a huge rock that sits at the pond's 
edge. Birds flit overhead, and small animals 
scamper about. They all seem to give the pond a 
wide berth. Staring at the scene, you notice 
pieces of broken bones lying in the grass. 

The pond can present a deadly encounter to adven 
turers, but the potential for reward is great. 

A pair of death molds, detailed in the Monstrous 
Compendium(r) booklet included in this boxed set, 
have found their way from the dark caverns of the 
dungeon into the forest. Although the living plants 
prefer the damp darkness, this pair has found ample 
food in the forest by this pond and have no intention 
of leaving. The mold is difficult to notice (10% 
chance) because it is dark green and is among the 
moss rimming the pool and covering the rock. 

The bones are all that remains of the molds' vic 
tims. Although many more creatures have been killed 
than what is evidenced by the remains, animals 
dragged many of the bodies off. 

Mold, Death (2): Int Animal (1); AL Nil; AC 9; 
MV 3; HD N/A; hp N/A; THAC0 11; #AT 1; Dmg 
2-16; SA Poison spores; SD Immune to non-clerical 
magic; MR Special; SZ H; ML 16; XP 3,000 each. 

When a victim touches the mold, or the mold 
attacks the victim, it releases a cloud of spores 60' by 
60' and 40' deep. Those in the cloud suffer 2-16 
points of damage and must make a successful saving 
throw versus poison or fall into the mold, coughing 
and wheezing for the subsequent ld4 rounds. These 
creatures also suffer 1-8 points of damage for each 
round they are in contact with the mold. 


After the mold has been dealt with, the PCs are 
free to examine the pond and the rock or to go about 
their business elsewhere. 

The rock is about four feet high and five feet in 
diameter. Moss covers much of it. If the moss is 
scraped away, words can be seen on top of the rock. 
The words have been neither chiseled nor etched; it 
is as if they were pressed (stone shaped) into the rock. 
The elvish text reads: 

Placed by a wizard in a young forest glade 
lies a weapon of might, a long emerald blade. 

The wizard he hid it, 
the blade would not die. 

Hid it, he feared it, 
beneath this false sky. 

I watched him hide it, impartial I stood. 

Bound by my honor, evil must live with good. 

The wizard he hid it. 

I heard the blade cry. 

Hid it, he feared it, 
the sword Tearulai. 

Wielded by he who sought the mad mage's head, 
wielded by he who now lies still and dead. 

Halaster he hid it, 
the blade would not die. 

Hid it, he feared it, 
but I know not why. 

Tearulai's owner by my love was slain. 

Then I killed my love, my mind reeling in pain. 

The Mad Wizard hid it, 
the blade could not die. 

Hid it, he feared it, 
beneath this false sky. 

Tearulai's heart is trapped 'neath a wave. 

Would that I had such a comforting grave. 


Halaster he hid it, 
the sword Tearulai. 

Hid it, he feared it. 

The wizard might die. 

The words were stone shaped into the rock decades 
ago by the insane druidess, Wyllow. Wyllow's hus 
band, Yinark, one of Halaster's later apprentices, slew 
a small adventuring party wandering in the forest. 
Yinark used surprise and all the magic he could 
muster to slay the party. Although he was successful 
in killing the fighters, including one who wielded an 
emerald blade, two escaped. Halaster's apprentice was 
nearly killed in the battle, and was unable to chase 
the fleeing pair. It is from these escaped adventurers 
that the legends of Halaster and the green blade were 
spread. 

The druidess, who could no longer put up with her 
husband's evil acts, killed him and then went insane. 
Refer to Wyllow in the NPC section for more infor 
mation. 

The slain apprentice joined Halaster's undead 
army, and the mad Wyllow went about her life in the 
woods. Halaster could not destroy the enchanted 
blade, nor could he or his associates wield it. Suffering 
damage by merely touching it, the wizard hid the 
sword in this pond and protected it. Halaster, uncon 
cerned about the druidess, never knew that she wrote 
a clue about the enchanted weapon. 

If the PCs attempt to enter the pond, they will be 
attacked by the powerful, full-strength water elemen 
tal placed there. 

Elemental, Water (1): Int Low (7); AL N; AC 2; 
MV 6, Sw 18; HD 16; hp 128; THACO 7; #AT 1; 
Dmg 5-30 (5d6); SA Nil; SD +2 or better weapon to 
hit; MR Nil; SZ H (16' tall wave); ML 17; XP 10,000. 

The elemental will not venture more than 10 feet 
from the pond. Its watery fist can extend up to 16' 
away from its body. 

After the elemental has been dealt with, the PCs can 
enter the pond and face the final menace. The pond 
is 30 feet deep, and at its bottom is a stone golem that 
is immune to the attack of the water elemental. The 



golem has been instructed to fight to the death to 
protect the blade, which lies covered by the silt at the 
bottom of the pond. The golem was specifically engi 
neered to work in water and is not slowed by it, nor 
are its attacks lessened. 

Golem, Stone (1): Int Non- (0); AL Neutral; AC 5; 
MV 6; HD 14; hp 60; THACO 7; #AT 1; Dmg 3-24; 
SA Can cast a slow spell every other round; SD +2 or 
better weapons to hit; MR Nil; SZ L (9V2 tall); ML 
20; XP 10,000. 

If the PCs defeat the golem, they are free to search 
the pond. The PCs must state they are searching 
through the silt and weeds at the bottom of the pond 
or must cast a detect magic to find the sword. Read the 
following when the PCs unearth the weapon: 

The blade glints like a gem, and in fact appears 
to be made out of an emerald. The faceted sur 
face of the weapon glimmers in the water and 
casts a faint green glow. The hilt is platinum 
with three emeralds set into the pommel. The 
long sword is beautiful, and it is undoubtedly 
worth a fortune. 

Tearulai, emerald long sword of sharpness +3: 
Tearulai is a one-of-a-kind weapon, created centuries 
ago by a powerful elven fighter-wizard to help him 
protect his clan who lived deep in Myth Drannor. 
The sword has an Int of 17 and an Ego of 20. 

The blade was carved from an emerald, and 
enchanted to be a sword of sharpness. Tearulai is Neu 
tral Good, and any goodly-aligned creature can use it. 
It can read and telepathically speak the following lan 
guages: elvish, common, silver dragon, pixie, and 
green dragon. Tearulai detects gems, kind and number in 
a 5' radius; detects invisible objects in a 10' radius; can 
cast fly, 12" per round, one hour per day; allows its 
wielder to cast polymorph self once a day; and can cast 
pass plant twice a day. 

Tearulai's emerald blade is impervious to all known 
forms of attacks. Further, the blade cannot be tele 
ported alone. However, it can teleport with its 
wielder. The sword likes gems and wants more and 


better gems imbedded in its scabbard. The blade is 
very vain and will always seek to improve its appear 
ance-at its owner's expense. The sword is also fond 
of the forests around Myth Drannor and would like 
nothing more than to return there. 

Creatures of Neutral and Evil alignments who 
attempt to pick up the sword suffer 20 points of dam 
age a round. 

A goodly-aligned character's level. Charisma score 
and Intelligence score must equal 37 or the sword 
will dominate him or her. Consult the "Weapon Vs. 
Characters" section on page 188 of the Dungeon 
Master(tm) Guide for more information. 

Room 59: HauMTed Toujor 

A stone building is nestled amid the trees at the 
edge of the woods. Almost castlelike, it appears 
to be constructed by the same individuals who 
made the marble pillars. A single door, oak 
banded by iron, appears to be the only entrance. 

The door is the only entrance to this structure, the 
abandoned home of the druidess's long-dead husband. 
This place served as a refuge for forest travelers over 
the years and is currently home to an undead band of 
pirates who unwittingly found their way into Halas- 
ter's domain 50 years ago and were slain in this build 
ing by Malar priests. The undead band are now 
haunts - trapped in this state by their desire to leave 
Undermountain. They attempt to possess any people 
entering this place, hoping fervently the living forms 
will take them out of Undermountain. 

The furnishings inside this keep have all been 
destroyed by battles and time. A diligent search 
through the ruins, however, yields a pearl necklace 
(800 gp), a pair of sapphire earrings (500 gp), a gold 
armband (300 gp), a wand of woodland wonder and 
three ribbons of Talutah: bright blue, tan, and peach 
(see "New Magical Items" section). 

Haunts (6): Int Non- (0); AL NE; AC 0/victinVs 
AC; MV 6/as victim; HD 5/victim's hp; THACO 15; 
#AT 1/1 as 5 HD monster; Dmg Special/by weapon; 
SA Special; SD Special; MR Nil; SZ M (6' tall); ML 



15; XP 2,000 each. 

One of the undead pirates retains some knowledge 
of his former life. He can communicate that he and 
his band came here by accident shortly after landing 
in Waterdeep. He recalls stepping between a pair of 
pillars and ending up down here. The pirate is aware 
of the priests of Malar, who slew him and his band. 

Room 40.* Trzedhouse Home 

Nestled high in the branches of a great willow 
tree, you see a thatched hut, complete with win 
dows and a small porch. 

This is the home of Crissann, the evil wizardress 
befriended by Wyllow. There is a 35% chance 
Crissann will be home in the company of her ogre 
bodyguards. Otherwise, she is out wandering in the 
woods or conversing with Garrik or Wyllow. 

If Wyllow is not present, eight ogre guards are. 
These are stationed in the underbrush around the 
trunk of her tree. They fight to the death to defend 
Crissann's home and property. They know better than 
to climb the tree and test her defenses. Although they 
are uncertain what type of magic guards her home, 
they witnessed some of their brothers fall to their 
deaths when they tried to rob Crissann. 

Those who live in Undermountain leave the home 
and ogres alone, for they fear the wrath of the 
druidess and Crissann. 

To reach the treehouse home, creatures must climb 
or fly. The door and windows of the hut are trapped 
with a permanent, specially researched spell. All 
those other than Crissann who touch the door, which 
is locked, or attempt to open a window are subject to 
a hold person or mammal spell with a -4 saving throw 
penalty. The save is required each time someone 
touches the door or window. A knock spell will 
unlatch the door, but will not open it. However, suc 
cessive knock spells will work. 

Inside are simple furnishings and containers filled 
with potted plants and flowers. 

Ogres (8): Int Low (7); AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; HD 
4+1; hp 21 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10; SA 


+2 to damage; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ L (9' tall); ML 12; 
XP 175 each. 

Rooms 41 ANd 4-2.* 

Domaiw of the Dyutib&ss 

The forest here seems more lush, the trees and 
bushes are closer together, and the leaves, flow 
ers and vines are vibrant. It is only possible to 
walk single-file here, as the plant growth is so 
thick. 

Although the druidess considers the entire under 
ground forest her domain, the land between #41 and 
#42 is her home. All the creatures encountered here 
will have the maximum amount of hit points possible, 
as she takes good care of them. Refer to the NPC sec 
tion for information about Wyllow. 

There is a 60% chance the druidess will be 
encountered here. Regardless of whether she is pre 
sent, however, her "friends" will be here. These 
friends are in addition to any other animals in the 
area. They will attempt to prevent the PCs from 
injuring the woods, the druidess's favorite tree, or 
the inhabitants. If the druidess is not present, but 
discovers that the PCs have injured or killed her 
friends, she will track down the characters and pun 
ish them. 

The druidess's friends will not strike out against 
characters who simply explore the forest. 

Warthog (5): Int Animal (1); AL Nil; AC 7; MV 12; 
HD 3; hp 24 each; THACO 17; #AT 2; Dmg 2-8/2-8 
(2d4); SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ S (3' at shoulder); 
ML 10; XP 120 each. 

Elephant (1): Int Semi (2); AL N; AC 6; MV 15; 
HD 11; hp 88; THACO 10; #AT 5; Dmg 2-16/2-16/ 
2-12/2-12/2-12; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ L (11' 
tall at shoulder); ML 7; XP 4,000. 

Skunk, Giant (2): Int Animal (1); AL N; AC 7; MV 
9; HD 5; hp 40 each; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; 
SA Squirt musk; SD Squirt musk; MR Nil; SZ M (6' 
long); ML 9; XP 270 each. 


Porcupine, Giant (2): Int Animal (1); AL Nil; AC 5; 
MV 6; HD 6; hp 48 each; THACO 13; #AT 2-8; Dmg 
Shoot quills; SA Quills; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ L (7 
long); ML 6; XP 650 each. 

Weasel, Giant (8): Int Animal (1); AL Nil; AC 6; 
MV 15; HD 3+3; 27 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 
2-12; SA Blood drain; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ M (7 
long); ML 10; XP 175 each. 

Wyllow, druidess (1): Int Average (12); AL N; AC 
-1; MV 12; HD 14 (D14); hp 83; THACO 10; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-6+3 (spear +3); SA Spells; SD Spells; MR 
Nil; SZ M; STR 14, INT 12, WIS 17, DEX 18, CON 
18, CHR 19 (21); ML 19. 

Spells: Cure light wounds *5, entangle *2, faerie fire, 
slow poison, charm person or mammal, speak with ani 
mals x5, goodberry, summon insects *2, protection from 
fire, water breathing, snare, spike growth, tree, giant 
insect, cure serious wounds *2, speak with plants *2, ani 
mal growth, cure critical wounds, air walk, heal, wall of 
thorns, conjure earth elemental. 

Room 45.* Law6 of VaL^emaR 

The forest here is filled with a riot of plant 
growth, though it is not so thick as the woods to 
the southwest. The animals and birds do not 
seem quite as plentiful as in other areas of the 
forest. 

Valdemar, a green dragon, lives in this area. There is a 
70% chance he can be encountered here. However, if 
the PCs look formidable and do not appear to be 
hurting the woods, Valdemar will go against his 
nature and leave them alone. He has been wounded 
seriously in the past and has grown more cautious. 
However, if the PCs near his treasure, damage the for 
est, or threaten the druidess, Valdemar will bring all 
his abilities to bear. Consult the NPC section for 
more information on Valdemar. 

The dragon has a spy network in this part of the 
woods. In exchange for their lives, a pack of worgs 
and a pack of giant rats, all at maximum hit points 
because of the druidess's care, works for him. The 


worgs learn about trespassers in the woods and about 
any potential threats to the dragon. 

Worgs (12): Int Low (6); AL N(E); AC 6; MV 18; 
HD 3+3; hp 27 each; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8 
(2d4); SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ M (5' at shoul 
der); ML 11; XP 120 each. 

Rats, Giant (30): Int Semi, (2); AL N(E); AC 7; 
MV 12, Sw 6; HD 4 hp; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 
1-3; SA Disease; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ T (2' long); ML 
7; XP 15 each. 

Room 4 5 a: Th'tizsT F ok Youth 

Roughly in the center of Valdemar's part of the woods 
is a marble fountain. It appears quite out of place. 
The water has a blue cast to it and radiates magic. 
However, three rounds after it is removed from the 
fountain, the magic of the water fades. 

Any creature drinking the water sheds 1-4 years 
from its life and cures 3-12 (3d4) points of damage. 
Creatures younger than four years old are reduced to 
one year. Adventurers who have found this fountain 
and lived to tell of its existence believe this is one of 
the magics that keeps the many wizards of Under 
mountain young. 

There are no creatures guarding this fountain. 
However, DMs should double the opportunity for a 
wandering monster encounter here. 

If the PCs slay Valdemar, his worgs, and his rats -and 
diligently search the woods - they can find his trea 
sure: 4,000 cp, 6,000 sp, 3,000 gp, 1,000 pp, three 
gems (each worth 250 gp), a ring of the rat, a full jar of 
Keoghtom's ointment, a vial of oil of fiery burning, and a 
suit of plate mail of missile attraction. 

Room 44.* HalasTeR's PeT 

To the northwest is a small chamber, obviously 
someone's living quarters. Though simply fur 
nished, you can tell the individual takes care of 
his meager possessions. Everything is clean, 
orderly, and carefully arranged. The walls are 


filled with sketches - apparently all of the same 
woman. 

This is where Garrik Oakspear lives when he is not in 
the forest with the druidess or spying for his evil 
master. For more information on the thief, consult 
the NPC section in this booklet. There is only a 20% 
chance he will be encountered here. 

Room AS: 

House of the Child WIzAizd 

An old ruins straddles an island in the middle of 
the river. Its crumbling walls attest to its age and 
the toll the moisture in this cavern has taken on 
it. No entrance to the ruins is visible. Twelve 
pedestals, nine of which support statues of war 
riors, stand in a row on the southwest side of the 
ruins. The three empty pedestals occupy the 
middle of the row (four statues, three pedestals, 
and five statues). 

The three empty pedestals radiate magic if such is 
detected for. Stepping on the first pedestal triggers a 
gate that transports an individual to an undetailed 
room in Trobriand's Graveyard. Stepping on the mid 
dle pedestal sends an individual to #43A, near the 
magical fountain in the forest, automatically casting 
faerie fire on him or her. Stepping on the final 
pedestal transports an individual to a random destina 
tion along the edge of the Great Glacier. 

There does not appear to be a door to the ruins 
because Spite has a permanent guards and wards spell 
upon the place. All of the doors are covered by an 
illusion, and all doors are wizard locked. There is a 
40% chance Spite will be encountered here, and a 
30% chance Kumar will be here. 

There are four rooms left standing in this structure. 
Three are occupied by Spite and occasionally his ogre 
mage associate. The fourth is where he contains the 
current subject of his experiment: a flareater. No map 
is provided for this. However, DMs can create a map 
if they so desire. 

If the PCs discover the only door into the complex, 
and can open it, they are immediately subjected to a 


suggestion spell: "leave." If they are unaffected, they 
can explore the rooms within. There is only one 
level. All of the corridors are misty, with visibility at 
10 feet; the entire complex radiates magic, and a gust 
of wind is in effect in the corridors between the rooms. 

Room 1: Spite's laboratory. This place is a jumble 
of bowls, vials, beakers, sacks, and boxes -filled with 
powders, dusts, dried leaves, assorted liquids, ground 
bones, animal parts, and more. When the PCs enter 
this room a magic mouth goes off, warning: "Tres 
passers will die, leave now while you can." This room 
is filled with beakers, vials, and bowls of noxious 
smelling stuff. There are dozens of books detailing vile 
experiments and how to find unusual spell compo 
nents. A secret compartment in a shelf holds: a potion 
of rainbow hues, dust of appearance, a ring of might (see 
the "New Magical Items" section), and a decanter of 
endless water. 

There is a 20% chance Spite will be here, and a 
10 % chance his ogre mage friend is with him. 

Room 2: Spite's bedroom. A contrast to the labo 
ratory, this room is clean. The massive four-poster bed 
is made, there are no wrinkles in the ornamental rug 
on the floor, and the portraits on the wall are all 
straight and dusted. 

When the PCs enter this room, a magic mouth 
intones: "Fools be you who enter the sacred place of 
Spite the Mighty." Further, a stinking cloud is released, 
filling the dimensions of the room. The bedroom con 
tains tomes on disgusting magical experiments. 

There is a 10% chance Spite will be here, unless he 
was encountered in the laboratory. 

Room 3: Guest bedroom. This is similar to Spite's 
bedroom, but the furnishings are not as elaborate. 
This is where Spite's ogre mage friend stays when he 
is not in the forest. A stinking cloud spell likewise goes 
off here, if the individuals entering the room are not 
Spite or Kumar. 

There is a 20% chance Kumar, the ogre mage, will 
be here. 

Room 4: This is where Spite houses the subjects of 
current experiments. It is blocked by a stone door 
that requires a combined Strength of 40 (or a knock 
spell) to open, after the wizard lock is dealt with. 
Inside is a flareater, which is powerless against its 



stone surroundings. However, once the door is 
opened, particularly by someone unaware of what is 
inside, the flareater is free to wreak havoc. 

Flareater (1): Int Average (10); AL N; AC 0; MV 
15; HD 6 (currently); hp 30; THACO 12; #AT 1; 
Dmg 3-12 (3d4); SA Surprise, spells; SD Nil; MR 
Special; SZ M (6' wide); ML 14; XP 1,400 (cur 
rently). 

The flareater is tired of confinement and will fight 
to the death to escape. 

The flareater is described in the Monstrous 
Compendium(r) booklet in this boxed set. 

Room 45.- Cavorms of Doom 

A massive water-filled cavern opens before you. 

It is dark, yet there is enough luminous lichen 
on the walls that you can make out a rocky 
island in the center of it. The place is strangely 
quiet. 

This is the home of Rafiqa, a marid who has found 
Undermountain to his liking. There is a 75% chance 
the marid will be here. The regular inhabitants of 
Undermountain leave the marid alone, and he, in 
turn, does not bother them. Trespassers into the deep 
ways are another issue, however. The marid considers 
them fair game. In fact, he considers himself a much 
better hunter than the priests of Malar. 

The entrance to Rafiqa's lair is a cave on the west 
side of the island. 

If the marid is home, he will easily be alerted to the 
PCs' presence - Rafiqa cannot stand trespassers. If 
PCs enter his lair while he is at home, he will fight 
them. The marid is not stupid, however. If it appears 
he will lose the battle, he attempts to escape to fight 
again another day. 

If the PCs successfully deal with the marid and his 
lizard guards, they can find his treasure: 8,000 cp, 
1,000 pp, 6 gems (each worth 600 gp), a shield +1, 
chain mail +2, staff +2, and potions of diminution, 
gaseous form, healing, sweet water, and ventriloquism. 
The marid takes no precaution to guard his treasure, 
as he likes to look at it often. 



Rafiqa, marid (1): Int High; A1 CE; AC 0; MV 9, FL 
15 (B), Sw 24; HD 13; hps 79; THACO 9; #AT 1; 
Dmg 8-32; SA Spells; SD Spells; MR 25%; SZ H (18' 
tall); ML 18; XP Value 15,000. 

Rafiqa can use any of his spell-like powers, one at a 
time, twice each per day: detect evil/ good, detect 
invisible, detect magic, invisibility, assume liquid 
form (similar to assume gaseous form), polymorph 
self, purify water. Further, he can perform any of the 
following up to seven times a day: assume gaseous 
form, lower water, part water, wall of fog. He can create 
a jet of water, which he can direct in a powerful force 
up to 60 yards long. Those struck suffer a blinding 
effect (unless they make a successful saving throw vs. 
petrification) and suffer ld6 points of damage. 

Rafiqa can water walk, is not harmed by water- 
based spells, and enjoys a +2 saving throw bonus 
against cold-based spells. Fire-based spells cause +1 
per die of damage, with saving throws at a -1 
penalty. 

Rafiqa favors using a wand of wonder in combat 
against wizards. His wand has 56 charges. Other magi 
cal items he uses include a wand of magic missiles (32 
charges) and a brooch of shielding (29 charges). 

Subterranean Lizards (2): Int Non-; A1 N; AC 5; 

MV 12; HD 6; hps 48 each; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 
2-12; SA On a roll of 20, a lizard has clamped down 
and does double the normal damage with its bite 
(4-24); SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ H (20' long); ML 10; XP 
1,400 each. 

WyU-ocuujood.* 
Aizoas of IbStenosT 

A. When PCs pass by this spot, they are subject to 
the attack of a stone pudding. The pudding will drop 
from the ceiling upon them. Stone puddings are 
detailed in the Monstrous Compendium booklet in 
this box. 


Pudding, Stone (1): Int Low (5); AL NE; AC 4; MV 
3; HD 5; hp 26; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 3-18; SA 



43 




Toxin; SD Immune to edged weapons, blunt weapons 
inflict Vt damage; MR 30%; SZ L; ML 18; XP 1,400. 

B. Here lie the remains of previous adventurers. 
These fellows have been killed within the past 1-4 
days, and their possessions have been looted. How 
ever, PCs who have speak with dead spells can commu 
nicate with them. The dead adventurers relate: 

"We traveled here in search of wealth. We found 
death instead. We do not know if Halaster lives, but 
we are certain his spirit or consciousness must be in 
these walls. This place is evil. There are horrible pud 
dings the like of which you have never seen. And 
there is a dragon, dark and fearsome (too dark for us 
to see what color). We escaped it, but we fell to the 
priests of The Beastlord. 

"The hunt, they called it. We were subjects in the 
hunt. They stalked us as if we were animals. They 
hunted us down and slayed us here, using metal claws 
and maces. The pain was intense. Be careful that you 
are not hunted. Stay away from the priests. Find 
safety with the mad druidess." 

C. More remains of adventurers are here. However, 
these are little more than bones. They died too long 
ago for a speak with dead spell to be effective. How 
ever, they should serve to unnerve the player charac 
ters. Halaster's associates have left the bones here for 
effect. 

D. Only at night, a Drow spy skulks through this 
section of Undermountain. He is gaining informa 
tion about the place so he can report back to his 
people. The spy will not immediately be hostile to 
the PCs, as he recognizes that they are trespassers, 
like himself. Depending on the PCs' reaction to 
him, the Drow might temporarily ally himself with 
the PCs for safety. 

If the PCs are hostile, the Drow will attempt to 
escape. He is here to gather information, not to risk 
his life in a foolish combat. If captured and ques 
tioned, the Drow divulges part of his assignment - 
he is here to determine just what Undermountain 
holds and who rules it. He will not mention that his 
Drow clan would like to take over the great dun 



geon. The Drow can point the PCs to one of the 
gates that will lead them out of Undermountain 
(DM's choice). 

Aliases he uses include: Jonder, a subterranean 
lizard trapper; Rent, an explorer seeking to map the 
great underground; Durmee, a plant specialist looking 
for various fungus and molds that might make healing 
balms; Huqort, an animal trainer hoping to find the 
intellegent brown spiders of Yen (there's no such 
thing); and Clerdominar, a scout for a band of human 
and half-elven adventurers who were caught by the 
priests of Malar. 

Drow Spy (1): Int High (14); AL CE; AC 4; MV 12; 
HD 2; hp 16; THACO 19; #AT 2; Dmg 1-6+1/1-6+1 
(Drow short swords +1); SA Spells; SD Spells; MR 
50%; SZ M (5' tall); ML 14; XP 650. 

He has the following spells, useable once per day: 
dancing lights, faerie fire, and darkness. 

E. This small section of Wyllowwood has a perma 
nent reverse gravity spell cast upon it. PCs who walk 
into the area of effect are catapulted up to the ceiling 
and suffer 3-18 points of damage when they impact 
with the rock. They must make a successful Dexterity 
check at the end of the area or suffer an additional 
ld6 points of damage when landing. The spell pri 
marily serves to annoy trespassers. 

F. When PCs walk through this location, they are 
subject to the attack of a dense pudding. The pud 
ding is hungry and will consider the intruders a tasty 
meal. The pudding is detailed in the Monstrous 
Compendium(r) booklet in this box. 


Pudding, Dense (1): Int Average (9); AL NE; AC 6; 
MV 6; HD 7; hp 56; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 2-20 
(2dl0); SA Surprise bonus, disease; SD Immune to 
edged weapons, blunt weapons inflict Vi damage; MR 
20%; SZ L; ML 15; XP 2,000. 


G. This is where a dwarven miner was struck down by 
one of Halaster's minions. The miner was trying to 
defend his home from the invaders, and his drive was 
so strong that his spirit stayed behind as a haunt. 



44 



Each haunt encountered at one of these letters can 
have a different purpose. Consult the chart below. 
The dwarven haunt will attempt to possess the body 
of a PC so it can carry out its mission. 

1. Storm through Undermountain in search of any 
evil spellcasters. It was they who tore the caverns 
from the dwarves. 

2. Flee Undermountain so dwarves elsewhere, par 
ticularly those above in Waterdeep, can be warned 
about the evil creatures that live below. 

3. Find Flalaster or his spirit and exact a swift 
vengeance. 

4. Conduct a painstaking search through every cor 
ridor of the deep ways to make certain no dwarves are 
being held captive. Any captives must be freed and 
assisted to the surface. 

5. Slay the priests of Malar. It is with their curing 
powers that Halaster's minions continue to thrive. 
With the priests gone, Flalaster's forces might have to 
go elsewhere. 

6 . Find a way to either bring down the caverns or to 


cause enough damage that the river is stopped-up. 
The river is the life of this level. Stopping it will force 
Flalaster's creatures to leave or die. 

Haunt (1): Int Non-(O); AF NG; AC 0/victim's AC; 
MV 6/as victim; HD 5/victim's hp; THACO 15; #AT 
1/1 as 5 HD creature; Dmg Special/by weapon; SA 
Special; SD Special; MR Nil; SZ S (3' tall); MF 16; 
XP 2,000. 

H. When PCs walk through this location, they are 
subject to the attack of a gray pudding. The pudding 
is hungry and will consider the intruders a tasty 
meal. The pudding is detailed in the Monstrous 
Compendium(r) booklet in this box. 

Pudding, Gray (1): Int Tow (5); AF NE; AC 9; MV 
9; HD 10; hp 50; THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 4-32 
(4d8); SA Acid; SD Immune to edged weapons, blunt 
weapons inflict Va damage; MR 20%; S F; MF 15; XP 
4,000. 




TRobR)AM<b's GtiAve-yAKd 


¦ robriand is a dangerous and power 
ful mage. A master of metal and its 
enchantments, he delights in the 
creation of magical constructs and 
creatures of metal, and considers 
his "offspring" superior in many ways to living crea 
tures. Years ago, he set up several laboratory facilities 
in Undermountain where he could continue to work 
on his beloved mechanisms, but eventually he found 
the need to dispose of the failures that inevitably 
accompany any research. He recycled most of the 
outright failures for spare parts; however, some of the 
botched experiments had some interesting properties 
of their own. By means of a magical item he created 
(Trobriand's wand of rejecting- see the "New Magical 
Items" section in this booklet), Trobriand began to 
send these intriguing rejects to a region he claimed 
deep within Undermountain. He showed this realm 
to his old mentor Halaster, who promptly dubbed it 
"Trobriand's graveyard," by which name people have 
known it ever since. 

After years of dumping his rejected experiments, 
Trobriand decided to scry into his graveyard. It was 
then he noticed that not all of his outcasts were 
inactive. Some of them had begun to repair them 
selves, and to build other units out of the scrap parts 
Trobriand had discarded. When he saw their activ 
ity, Trobriand at first meant to deactivate the whole 
collection. However, when he saw the orphaned 
machines beginning to set up a hierarchy among 
themselves, he became amused, and decided to let his 
precocious toys develop on their own for a while. He 
gave them minimal resources and the occasional non 
working mechanism for spare parts, and took pleasure 
in their beginning to form their own society. 

Curious, he then set up a one-way, mobile gate to 
send random creatures, including luckless adventur 
ers, to his discarded playthings to see how his "chil 
dren" would deal with these intrusions from the 
outside world. 


Ways In 

The gate that brings creatures in from the outside 
looks in all respects like a will o'wisp. It wanders at 
random throughout the Forgotten Realms, attacking 
those it meets. Upon a successful attack roll (the 
gate's THACO is 11), it teleports the unfortunate vic 
tims to the entry gate of Trobriand's graveyard (Room 
1). The wandering gate generally attacks groups of 
creatures numbering between 4 and 12 individuals, 
and continues to attack until it has teleported all 
members of a particular group. Large accumulations of 
magical items seem to attract it, as do areas where a 
great deal of spellcasting has recently taken place. 
However, it can appear wherever the DM wishes it to. 

Plane shifting, outrunning the gate for 1-4 days (it 
moves at 18, as a will o'wisp), and hiding in an area 
protected by an anti-magic shell or similar spell have 
proven effective ways of escaping Trobriand's gate. 
The latter seems to confuse it, causing it to wander off 
after 2-5 rounds. PCs may safely leave the anti-magic 
shell after another turn. A successful dispel magic cast 
against Trobriand's level of 18 confounds the gate's 
tracking abilities for 1-10 rounds, giving a fleeing 
party a head start. 

The attacks of the gate cause no damage other than 
the teleportation. The gate is immune to all attacks and 
spells other than those previously mentioned. How 
ever, striking the gate with a hand-held metallic 
weapon of +3 enchantment or better results in a huge 
explosion. This explosion does no damage, but tele 
ports everyone within a 30' radius to Trobriand's 
graveyard. It blinds all creatures within its area of 
effect for ldlO rounds (save for half). No saving 
throw applies against the teleportation effect. 

Involve a party of adventures easily in Trobriand's 
graveyard by having the gate attack them some night 
when they have camped on the way home from 
another adventure. Or, perhaps the gate shows up 
when the party's luck has run out-mages have run 


46 




low on spells and components, repeated volleys have 
depeleted rangers' quivers, and so on. (Imagine their 
relief at the sudden transportation away from the dan 
ger at the last minute! Of course, they may yet prefer 
the doom they know to the uncertainties of this 
place, and any characters not yet teleported will not 
know their friends' fate: captured, or disintegrated?) 
Other suitable sites for the other end of the gate 
include the ruins of Myth Drannor, Zhentil Keep, and 
various areas in the upper levels of Undermountain. 

An NPC could also hire the party to investigate 
mysterious disappearances in a specific area of the 
kingdom in which they live, or to retrieve a family 
heirloom. (Perhaps the family heirloom presently 
serves as a spare part in a metal monster, mining one 
of the L areas of Trobriand's graveyard.) Early reports 
could describe a "creature" that kills its victims, 
destroying them completely. However, judicious use 
of divination spells could reveal that the victims still 
live (without revealing much else). 

The MAsTerz 

T hose who have seen the earlier Ruins of Under 
mountain boxed set already have passing famil 
iarity with Trobriand from that work. In the time 
intervening, Trobriand has progressed even farther in 
his career. His statistics follow: 

Trobriand: NE hm W 18; AC -2; MV 12; HP 38; 
THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg by spell or weapon type (see 
below); INT 18. Spells: N/A 

A secretive mage of great power, Trobriand poses 
no threat to his ex-master Halaster. However, he 
more than matches most adventuring parties in the 
Forgotten Realms. Since he has made peace with his 
former master, little or nothing in the vast realm of 
Undermountain can threaten him. 

Trobriand appears as a very tall, lean man, stooped 
from the weight of his advanced years; however, his 
age has done nothing to lessen the aura of controlled 
power surrounding him. Trobriand is clean shaven, 
his thick, steel-gray hair reaching past his shoulders. 
Though he occasionally roams the corridors of 


Undermountain, he rarely appears outside his heavily 
guarded laboratories, and the PCs will not see him 
during their stay in his graveyard. 

"The Metal Mage" rates second to none as a master 
of metal and its enchantment. Several of his metal 
constructs always surround him, ready to obey his 
every command and defend him or fight for him until 
destroyed. Trobriand therefore seldom engages in 
direct combat, even with those few parties who 
encounter him or seek him out. He uses his knowl 
edge of magic and the gates of Undermountain to tele 
port away with his spellbooks before encountering any 
real danger. 

Trobriand feels little or no kinship with the rest of 
humanity; he considers insects a much superior class 
of creatures. He prefers the company of his creations 
to any living person that he has had the dubious plea 
sure of meeting, and he delights in every victory of his 
mechanisms over living creatures, believing them 
"proof" of his constructs' superiority. The few meet 
ings with adventurers in Undermountain over the 
years have served to make him suspicious of people 
and more than a little paranoid. He might admit to 
trusting Halaster-but the depth of that trust is ques 
tionable. 

Trobriand constantly monitors his gate's activities, 
and often watches its rambling retrievals through a 
crystal ball to see what his discarded mechanisms will 
meet up with next. He can also view any section of 
his graveyard at will, and often does so to observe the 
activities of his discarded toys. He does this by the 
use of small spy constructs that he can control from a 
distance. He can see through their eyes, and has 
enchanted them to cause any metal monster ap 
proaching one intending to scavenge for spare parts 
to completely forget its purpose and wander off, leav 
ing the spy unit unharmed. 

Trobriand observes the characters while they are in 
his graveyard, hoping to find some evidence of true 
sentience on the part of his creations. He will not see 
his experiments wasted. He does not interfere or enter 
the graveyard while the PCs are there, but if they 
cause a great deal of mayhem and destruction, he 
takes action to stop them. After all, he may have dis 
carded the constructs, but he still feels a certain fond- 


So 



ness for them that he cannot feel for the organic crea 
tures populating the rest of the world. DMs may 
choose from the following list of Trobriand's actions, 
depending on the severity of the PCs' mayhem: 

1. All of the metal monsters in the graveyard coop 
erate to immobilize the party. 

2. All of the metal monsters in the complex physi 
cally attack the PCs at Trobriand's command. 

3. Trobriand sends a necklace of missiles to Squch 
and orders him to use it against the party. 

4. Trobriand sends a staff of thunder and lightning to 
Squch-with instructions to use it against the party. 

5. Trobriand causes the equivalent of a retributive 
strike against the PCs, causing each of the adventur 
ers to take 100 points of damage (save for half). 

6 . Trobriand sends the entire party to the entrance 
gate to "Muiral's Gauntlet." 

Trobriand has recently placed a small force of his 
new thanatars in his graveyard for testing, and now 
waits with interest to see how they fare against the 
various creatures and adventurers transported to this 
level. 

If the PCs should manage to escape and live to 
boast of their deeds, Trobriand may target them for 
elimination or at least harassment. (In particular, Tro 
briand does not wish the rest of the Forgotten Realms 
made aware of his thanatars' existence. His aspira 
tions for them are unknown, but he still wishes to 
keep word their existence from the public for a 
while.) Adventurers who escape from the graveyard 
may find their troubles just beginning. Trobriand has 
a great many creations to send after those who have 
troubled him, from things as mundane as iron golems 
and helmed horrors to creations that he has not even 
named yet. Trobriand probably would not come after 
escapees personally, but he could definitely keep their 
lives interesting for a good long while, as well as make 
them very unwelcome guests. 

The Complex 

T he overall shape of this huge cavern complex is 
that of a giant scorpion. Trobriand found it this 


way, and the shape may have inspired him to con 
struct his favorite creation, the scaladar. The caverns 
themselves seem to have been of ancient dwarven 
construction, and the tiny veins of mithral that can 
still be seen in some areas clearly explain the dwarven 
interest in mining this place. 

The entry gate is positioned at the end of the "tail," 
and the exit to the outside world is in a pillar of fire at 
the end of the left "claw." The right claw also con 
tains a gate; however, this merely leads to another 
area of Undermountain. In between are a series of 
rooms shaped like the plates of a scorpion's armor. 
These rooms connect in a seemingly random pattern, 
with as many as five corridors leading out of each 
interior "scale." This is designed to confuse a party of 
adventurers and thus lead them in circles throughout 
the complex. 

Here Trobriand teleports his rejected experimental 
models and discards, as well as his enemies. (Many of 
the "guests" who have visited his graveyard included 
adventuring parties caught ransacking one of his 
many laboratories, and dispatched to this place by 
means of his wand of rejecting.) The gates in and out of 
this area do not transport any inanimate material 
except for that worn or carried by a living creature. 
As in all portions of the Undermountain, Halaster's 
various barrier spells prevent magical entry to or exit 
from this level. Even the stone has been magically 
hardened to prevent the inhabitants from digging 
their way out. 

Various types of Trobriand's "pets" have taken over 
different parts of the complex. These small communi 
ties constantly compete with each other for the 
extremely limited resources provided by Trobriand 
and the occasional addition of adventurers' equip 
ment. Some of the more intelligent mechanisms have 
also begun to realize that living creatures can pass 
into and out of their realm in some manner closed to 
them. Knowing that these creatures often carry useful 
objects, and spurred on by their ambitious leader, the 
metallic inhabitants of this complex wish to devise a 
method for traveling to whatever areas these choice 
items come from. Thus, they attempt to capture liv 
ing creatures and question them about their methods 
of travel. Several of the more intelligent constructs 


48 



have learned a halting form of the common tongue, 
and clumsily attempt to communicate with prisoners 
in an attempt to discover their secrets. 

In the past, when prisoners could not aid them in 
their quest, the machines resorted to dissection to try 
to gather information. From this procedure, they 
ascertained only that their captives comprised an 
incredibly messy array of non-standard parts. Fortu 
nately for the PCs, this seldom if ever happens now. 
The silversanns have come to realize that dissection 
makes for poor research, and while they may mention 
the subject if the flow of information slows, they 
probably have little real interest in trying it. (They 
may, however, express confusion over the party's 
objection to it; after all, metal monsters report for dis 
mantling all the time and they don't make a fuss.) 

Trobriand's Graveyard presently contains ten sil- 
versann units, twelve thanatars (a formidable force), 
and 25-30 ferragans. It also holds many unspecialized 
metal monsters; their number constantly changes as 
old units wear out and new ones arise from their com 
ponents, or as Trobriand adds new inhabitants. There 
are likely to be over 100 at any given time. An 
adventuring party may meet some of these units 
nearly anywhere in Trobriand's graveyard. 

The supreme construct in Trobriand's grave 
yard, an enhanced scaladar (see the Monstrous 
Compendium(r) booklet with this product), has 
named itself Squch. As the most intelligent and 
ambitious of Trobriand's constructs, Squch is the 
reason the other metal monsters frantically search 
for a way out of the graveyard: Squch is power-hun 
gry, with delusions of grandeur. Becoming the ruler 
of Waterdeep takes first place among the enhanced 
scaladar's many ambitions. To this end, Squch has 
instructed the other inhabitants of the graveyard to 
spare no effort in finding a means for escaping 
Undermountain and making this ambition a reality. 

The metal inhabitants greet new arrivals with 
interest. They will return hostility from the party in 
kind, fully capable of defending themselves, but pre 
ferring to further their quest for knowledge. They 
sometimes express puzzlement at the tendency of liv 
ing creatures to behave irrationally about little things 
(like removing their possessions or confining them to 


holding cells). The mechanisms display little in the 
way of emotional behavior, although the silversann 
units sometimes show excitement or frustration over 
their research. 

Since each of the inhabitants of the graveyard has 
its own function, they require few rules. The separate 
groups take care of themselves, and everything that 
needs to get done, does. The ferragans take care of 
refining raw materials, repairing and dismantling 
other machines, and forging new parts as needed. 
The thanatars handle any problematic visitors, sub 
due berserk metal monsters, and work to improve 
themselves. The silversanns spend their time re 
searching better ways to do whatever needs doing, 
and trying to find a way out. Unspecialized metal 
monsters perform all menial chores, dig for ore, and 
in general do whatever else needs doing, requiring 
only minimal supervision. 

In Squch's absence, the silversanns give the orders, 
possessing as they do the highest intelligence and great 
est versatility of the specialized machines. The thana 
tars come next, followed by the ferragans. The unspe 
cialized units rarely contribute anything worth listening 
to, and the specialized units rarely if ever consult them. 
Differences of opinion generally call for a consensus. 
Each stubborn and independently-minded silversann 
tends to feel that its particular area of research, and only 
that area, merits all the attention. This leads to some 
confusion at times, which clever adventurers who man 
age to set the silversanns against each other could 
exploit. This ploy requires care, however. The silver 
sanns may be a bit naive at times but they are definitely 
not stupid. This tactic will likely work only once, since 
failure will make the other units suspicious of any dou 
ble dealing thereafter. 

DM(tm) Tips 

P layer characters need not die in this area. They 
easily can, as the metal monsters (and the than 
atars in particular) present difficult foes to overcome. 
Flowever, PCs who decide to play along with things to 
"get the lay of the land" may escape relatively intact. 
If the PCs cooperate with the silversanns, or at least 
pretend convincingly to help, they can eventually 



learn the locations of the exit gates and their magical 
items, and engineer an opportunity for escape. The 
creatures subdue belligerent or combative groups, 
leaving them in the holding cells to rot. 

The silversanns present the obvious way out for a 
party that does not merely try to strongarm its way 
through. Except for the thanatars, the other units lack 
sufficient intelligence to actively help the party, and 
the thanatars' inflexibility prevents any negotiation. As 
a general principle, the silversanns and the thanatars 
have agreed that the security and safety of the complex 
come before questions of research. However, if the 
party presents no obvious threat, a silversann may 
argue for leniency in the interest of education. 

The silversanns consider themselves scholars, and 
often willingly make deals for the exchange of knowl 
edge. They gradually come to trust characters who 
convince them that they share a common love of 
knowledge, and may allow these types the run of the 
complex in the hope that a fresh point of view will 
help them solve their problems. In their naive manner 
they believe that the characters want to stay and learn 


as intensely as the silversanns want them to stay. 

However, a clever or cooperative party still will not 
find this level a romp in the park. Aside from the 
obvious dangers, the uncomprehending machines 
tend to behave unpredictably, perhaps trying to 
"repair" the prisoners, or gleefully tossing a character's 
spellbook into the furnace if she or he convinces 
them it holds no value. Squch always lurks about, 
ready to order the troops to greater conquests. Even if 
your players show unbelievable ingenuity, they 
shouldn't get away too easily. 

TRObRUNld's 

GrzAveyAizd: 

Cone Rooms 

Room 1: The Sfibogfrog Port Tal 

You appear on a stone dais roughly 30 feet in 
diameter in the middle of a large pool of stag- 



50 










nant, slightly acidic-smelling water. A huge, 
round cavern surrounds the pool, dimly lit by 
flames that seem to project directly from the dis 
tant walls, as if burning the very stone. Strange 
glyphs mark the stone platform on which you 
stand, glyphs that none of you has ever seen 
before. The language is one unfamiliar to any of 
you. An extremely wide corridor curves off to 
the southwest. It quickly angles out of sight; 
even if there were better light, you could not see 
more than a few yards along it from where you 
stand. 

The circular pool lies against the southeast wall of 
this 1000 foot-diameter room. A metal monster sentry 
guards the entrance to the "tail" pathway into the 
main cavern complex (at S on the map). Persons on 
the stone platform cannot see it easily (15% chance if 
scanning the room); it has instructions to leave 
immediately whenever anyone or anything appears 
on the platform, and report back to the ferragans in 
Area 3, so they can form a scavenging party to collect 
any metal brought in with the new arrivals. If seen, 
the metal monster does not attack or speak to the 
party, but instead leaves to report. The uncertain 
lighting reveals very few details to the viewer. 
Describe it as a "large, fast-moving, indistinct shiny 
object." The form and capabilities of the sentry vary, 
but it always has a movement rate of 15 or more and 
at least a 5 Intelligence; thus it moves fast enough to 
escape pursuing adventurers, and can report with 
basic accuracy on what it has seen. ("Five humans 
with weapons came to the stone circle. One wore 
robes and carried a wand-thing.") 

The platform lies in the middle of a pool 60 feet 
in diameter and 15-20 feet deep. (The meaning of 
the strange markings on the platform has been lost 
to time, although they appear vaguely dwarven.) 
The first challenge: find a way across the weakly 
acidic water. The water cannot cause serious burns, 
but if it somehow contacts the eyes of a living being, 
the victim must flush his or her eyes with clean 
water in order to restore vision. Also, non-magical 
clothing or leather allowed to remain dampened 
from the pool for a prolonged period begins to 


weaken and deteriorate, until in a few days such 
articles become useless. 

The flames along the walls result from natural gas 
erupting through fissures in the stone. Anyone staying 
in this room for more than an hour feels slightly ill for 
1-2 days afterward (-1 on all ability checks and com 
bat rolls) from inhaling the slightly toxic gas. (The 
flames lighting the other areas of the graveyard also 
come from jets like these, but those areas generally 
have more exit passages and better air circulation. 
Characters suffer no ill effects unless they choose to 
[or are forced to] breathe the fumes at close quarters 
for a prolonged period of time.) 

New arrivals should check their belongings. The 
gate only transports living creatures and those inani 
mate objects carried on or worn within a foot or so of 
their bodies. Clothing and armor transport safely, as 
do most weapons. However, long weapons such as 
pikes or some pole-arms may grow suddenly shorter 
(and, conceivably, may lose their "business ends") on 
coming through the gate. 

Room 2: The Scojzpjow's Whip 

This 40-foot wide corridor curves for several hundred 
feet before connecting with the ferragan area of the 
main cave complex. Piles of stone and large boulders 
lie scattered along its length. The corridor slopes 
downward as it curves around, making almost a 20- 
degree slope. The walls look rough and natural, but 
the floor appears polished and smooth. This glassy 
surface and the marble-sized gravel in the rubble 
areas make for somewhat unsteady footing, and PCs 
running or performing combat maneuvers should 
make Dexterity checks to see whether they stay on 
their feet. 

At some point along the corridor, new arrivals 
meet a welcoming committee of ferragans. This takes 
place from one to two thirds of the way down the cor 
ridor, depending on how long the party took to make 
its way across the pool and out of the entry chamber. 
The ferragans hide some of their number in the rub 
ble along the corridor (some of which they placed 
there for this purpose), and allow the party to 
advance until surrounded. (The ferragans did not 





think of this tactic on their own, but Squch gave 
them detailed instructions to ambush invaders in this 
manner.) One of the ferragans steps forward and says, 
in halting common, " You will leave all metal on the 
ground and follow me." It does not answer any ques 
tions or negotiate on any points; just saying this much 
has taxed its abilities almost to the breaking point. At 
most, it will repeat the phrase Squch taught it, and 
wait one or two minutes before ordering the rest of 
the group of ferragans to collect the metal. They 
move forward to do this whether the party has put its 
metal down or not. If the party complies and lays 
down its metal possessions, the machines gather them 
up. Eventually all of the party's metal possessions, 
magical and otherwise, end up in the whatzit room 
(Room 3) for proper distribution, and the ferragan 
that spoke takes them to Area 17 to meet with the 
silversanns, a very long walk indeed through the 
length of the graveyard. 

If necessary, the ferragans take the characters' 
metal by force. If the 12-15 ferragans in the group are 
forced to engage in melee, they concentrate on indi 
viduals carrying or wearing a great deal of metal. If 
one of the ferragans manages to grab a piece of metal, 
it leaves the battle, scurrying away with its prize to 
the whatzit room. 

If a group of new arrivals defeats the ferragans and 
continues on, six thanatars attack them on their way 
to Room 3 or Room 4. These thanatars stand guard at 
the "Y" intersection at the base of the tail, three in 
each corridor, where they wait until the characters 
choose a direction. They then attack the party from 
both directions at once. The thanatars attack with 
their pincers to hold their opponents, and then attack 
with their bludgeoning tails to subdue. 

If the characters are getting the better of the thana 
tars, more arrive at the rate of two every other round, 
until the melee includes all 12 thanatars in the com 
plex. If the PCs defeat all of the thanatars, all of the 
metal monsters of the complex mobilize to defeat the 
party. Once they subdue the entire party, they take 
any survivors to Area 17, and their possessions to the 
whatzit room. 


FeKfca.ga.Ns' Afceas 

Room 3: The WbaXzft Room 

Bins containing metal pieces, neatly sorted by 
type, line the walls in this smoky, dimly-lit room. 
The contents represent nearly every metallic 
substance, including some alloys that you may 
well not recognize. A bin slightly separated from 
the others holds gemstones, which the con 
structs use for lenses and the like. 

Three to seven ferragans work here at any one 
time, going through piles of scrap parts and 
cleaning them before placing them in the proper 
bins. Against the north wall rests a large tub 
containing a mild acid for cleaning metal parts. 
Workers dip the parts to remove paint, dirt, 
grease, or organic compounds. Tunnels exit this 
room to the east, west, and south. 

The bins contain many once-valuable items of 
treasure, mostly useless in their present state. Ferra 
gans remove the hafts and guards from weapons, and 
place them in bins separate from their blades. They 
disassemble armor and remove all nonmetallic parts 
(straps and the like). In fact, a large bin of separate 
links from suits of chain and ring mail stands in the 
southwest corner. The bins hold perhaps 10 or 20 
pounds of gold, silver, or platinum, and 10 to 20 gems 
of various types, but the ferragans would object stren 
uously to any in the party who wish to help them 
selves. This room holds no magical items of any type. 

Room A: ExarotwaToKJ Room 

This large, well-lighted room contains strange 
metal items of all sorts. Tunnels exit this room to 
the north, northwest, east, and south. 

The ferragans bring any items not immediately rec 
ognized as common or mundane to this room, for a 
preliminary examination by one of the silversanns. A 
silversann unit rests in the center of the room, 
inspecting each item carefully with a wand of magic 
detection (kept well-charged by Trobriand) before 





52 



sending it on its way. The silversann tosses ordinary 
items aside carelessly for return to the whatzit room 
for storage, and hands unusual or magical items to a 
metal monster in the comer for gentle packing and 
transfer to the silversanns in Area 13 for careful study. 

The 10 silversanns currently in the graveyard 
rotate on duty in this room, and despite the hours it 
takes away from research, the silversanns relish the 
time spent here. New magical items rarely come to 
the graveyard, and the arrival of such an item on a sil 
versann's duty shift presents a valuable situation. 
When the other constructs bring the party in, the sil 
versann unit happily uses its wand of magic detection 
on them as well, and directs the other units to confis 
cate any magical items for sorting and investigation. 
One of the party's escorts carefully takes any potions 
or scrolls to the smelting room for consumption. 

If adventurers wander in here on the loose (with 
out a proper escort), the silversann unit on duty is at 
first wary of them. If they act peacefully, it floods 
them with questions at an alarming rate. It willingly 
trades information with them; the only thing it 
refuses to let them do is examine the items in this 
room. If they express interest in any specific items, it 
begins questioning them about their knowledge of 
these objects. 

If the adventurers threaten the silversann in any 
way, or attempt to remove items from the room, it 
immediately summons 1-3 thanatars from their living 
areas. These thanatars arrive in 2-5 rounds. Other 
wise, the construct engages the PCs in curious and 
friendly conversation, attempting to learn all it can of 
these new arrivals before it has to share them with 
the others. 

Room 5: The SmeVDiog Room 

This room is like a vision of Tartarus. The only 
light comes from a huge furnace along the wall 
and from small metal monsters breathing out 
blasts of white flame too bright to look on 
directly. Clouds of smoke and fumes fill the air, 
and you can barely breathe. The heat is nearly 
unbearable, and the din from the pounding 
metal makes your head ring. 


Here the ferragans melt down metal objects too 
worn to use or deemed unsuitable for use as spare 
parts. They also do some repair work in here, and 
refine the small amounts of raw ore found by the 
metal monsters digging to enlarge the living areas. 

Most of the precious metals (coins, jewelry, etc.) 
recovered from visitors to this level undergo smelting 
here as well. The ingot forms have less bulk, and can 
be used more efficiently. Unknown items remain in 
their original state in case a silversann deems them 
suitable for later use, or until such time as a silversann 
directs the ferragans to melt them down. This room 
contains no magical items. 

Living creatures remaining in here for more than 
five rounds take 1 point of damage every other round 
(beginning with the second round in the room) from 
the heat and fumes. Spending 1 turn in a cooler area 
with fresh air restores half these hit points. 

A trapped and very angry salamander provides par 
tial power for the furnace. The powerful magics hold 
ing it require frequent consumption of other magical 
energies to remain effective. The metal monsters 
demand donations of magical items from any person 
who enters this room unescorted; if the units have 
already confiscated the party's magical items, they 
attempt to throw any useless (to them) non-metallic 
items such as potions, ointments, or scrolls into the 
furnace. If PCs prevent the constructs from renewing 
the magical field surrounding the salamander, it 
escapes and attempts to kill every living thing in sight 
in retribution for its forced captivity. 

Elemental, Fire-Kin (Salamander) (1): Int High; AL 
CE; AC 5/3; MV 9; HD 7 + 7; THACO 13; #AT 2; 
Dmg 2-12; SA Heat 1-6; SD + 1 or better weapon to 
hit; MR Nil; SZ M; ML 13; XP 2,000. 

Room 6: The Village Smithy 

This room looks like a blacksmith's shop gone 
wild. Strange machines crawl all over each other 
and attach pieces of metal to seemingly random 
spots on other, larger machines. Occasionally 
one of the smaller machines carries an uncoop 
erative piece of metal to a large flat stone. 



breathes flames on it, and pounds it into submis 
sion before trying to reattach it. The heat and 
noise are still at an uncomfortable level, but the 
relative cool and quiet is welcome. 

Here the majority of the complex's repair work 
takes place. Metal monsters with malfunctioning or 
worn parts come here to have repairs done while they 
wait. Several large flat stones serve as anvils in this 
area (the constructs find metal too valuable to use for 
a work surface). The ferragans' built-in torches heat 
pieces needing shaping or molding. This room holds 
no true forges. If a ferragan must make a piece from 
scratch, or must perform more extensive forging, it 
takes the metal to the smelting room and works there. 
Occasionally, a metal monster beyond repair from 
damage or overuse comes in. When this happens, it 
goes to Room 7 for dismantling. 

At any one time 4-7 ferragans work here and 8-10 
other machines wait for repairs. There is a 20% 
chance that 1 or 2 of these are other ferragans, and a 
10% chance of a single thanatar unit. Silversann 


units needing repair receive "house calls" in their per 
sonal areas. (Time spent waiting in the repair shop is 
research time wasted.) 

If a battle breaks out here, a 20% chance exists that 
a blow removes a piece of outer plate from a damaged 
unit. Treat this as an Armor Missing result on the ran 
dom disadvantage table in the Trobriand's Automa 
tons Monstrous Compendium(r) entry included in 
this product. 

Room 7: PaizTs )$ PaizTs 

Chaos holds sway in this cavern. Ferragans crawl 
over other machines like metal locusts, disman 
tling them into their component parts. Oddly, 
many of the creatures being dismantled actually 
help the ferragans at their work, holding parts as 
the ferragans remove them, or even helping to 
stack them neatly to the side, as long as they 
remain functional. 

Old metal monsters go here to die. As time goes by, 
more and more of the menial units are relegated to 













spare parts. However, most of these contain salvagable 
parts for new units (and require very little trouble on 
the ferragans' parts), so the total number of units goes 
down only slowly. At any one time, the room contains 
2-5 ferragans dismantling 1-4 metal monsters. They 
waste no parts. Pieces too badly worn to use in new 
creatures are melted down in the smelting room and 
cast into new and useful pieces. The thanatars are 
designed to stand up to rough handling, and the silver- 
sanns seldom if ever do anything that causes much 
wear and tear. However, there is a 15% chance that a 
ferragan is being dismantled, since the strenuous 
nature of their work causes occasional serious damage. 

Characters may possibly witness a berserk unit. 
Thanatars usually partially dismantle any rogue unit 
they bring in, but sometimes a damaged unit goes 
berserk while undergoing the process. In this case, the 
ferragans summon 1-3 thanatars, which arrive in 2-4 
rounds. They immediately immobilize and destroy the 
demented unit. All parts of a berserk unit are melted 
down and recast into new parts. The silversanns have 
no hard proof of these parts' faultiness, but often a unit 
repaired with parts from a deranged unit subsequently 
goes berserk, so they prefer to take no chances. 

If the machines have offered to "repair" or "dis 
mantle" the PCs, ferragans or other escorts bring 
them here for such work. 

ThawaTaRs' Aizoas 

Room 8: The Holding Pens 

This area is honeycombed with holes dug into the 
floor, and large flat stones slightly larger than the 
holes. Tunnels exit this room to the north, east, 
south, southwest, and west. Creatures from the gate 
that the silversanns wish to keep for further study, 
extremely troublesome individuals, and adventurers 
who have demonstrated an ability to wield magic 
spend their time here, especially if they have caused 
damage to the inhabitants. The holes are 7-12 feet 
across and 15-20 feet deep. The guards lower prison 
ers into the holes and drag a loose-fitting boulder over 
the top. This allows the prisoner to breathe (a refine 
ment added by the jailers after several unfortunate 



incidents) while precluding escape. The rough-hewn 
cell walls lend themselves to climbing, but the stone 
lids weigh several hundred pounds and gaining any 
leverage from the side wall of a pit presents quite a 
dilemma. Characters able to become small or assume 
gaseous form find it easy to escape from the pits (and 
are questioned at length about this if recaptured). 
The thanatars in particular express curiosity as to how 
the escapees circumvented their vigilance, since they 
have to answer to Squch. 

Imprisonment here is usually of a temporary nature, 
as the prisoners have only the food they bring with 
them; water, however, is plentiful. Meals for monsters 
and animals in the cells consist of captives that have 
died or have outlived their usefulness for research. 

A single thanatar for every five prisoners is sta 
tioned here at all times to prevent escape. The thana 
tar does not reply to requests for aid, but records all 
sounds made by prisoners and reports them to the sil 
versanns later. Since the barracks area is adjacent to 
this area, help is immediately available in the unlikely 
event that the thanatar on duty cannot handle the 








prisoners or their antics alone. If needed, all available 
thanatars hurry to this area, closely followed by all of 
the nearest silversanns, who eagerly record the battle 
from the sidelines. They study all aspects of the battle 
and/ or the escape later, and then adjust the prison 
area and the thanatars' tactics accordingly. 

Silversann units visit sentient prisoners once or 
twice daily for questioning. If the situation warrants 
more extensive probing, guards remove the prisoner 
from the holding cell and take him or her to Area 17 
for further interrogation. 

Room 9: WheCt Do 
TbawaXaRs DizeAm A bout? 

By the light seeping into this darkened area, you 
can see several large shapes in the darkness. 
Without another source of light, you cannot 
positively identify them. They could be just 
strange rock formations - or immobile metal 
monsters. 

The thanatar units stay here when not needed. The 
units are not inactivated; they just choose not to 
engage in unnecessary motion. Trobriand designed the 
thanatars with this trait to make them less noticeable if 
stumbled upon by an enemy, or when lying in wait for 
an ambush. One to eight units lie motionless in this 
area whenever no alerts require their presence in some 
other part of the complex. Only invisible and silent 
characters (not just invisible, or just silent, but both at 
once) can possibly sneak up on these units. The thana 
tar units activate immediately upon the entry of any 
visible or non-silent intruder and take all intruders 
prisoner if possible. All other units in the room imme 
diately come to the aid of any unit under attack. 

Under an active alert, this area empties, as all 
thanatars either answer the alarm or travel around 
the complex looking for other signs of trouble. 

Room 10: Havoc Research 

An amazing array of weapons and equipment, 
stored on wall racks, fills this room. You have 
never seen many of the items here before, and 


you can only guess about their intended purpose. 

As far as you can tell, each object is unique, and 
all are intriguing. 

The thanatars do their research here. Whenever 
an intruder demonstrates a new weapon or device 
that damages or defeats a thanatar in combat, the 
thanatars bring the item here for analysis so that the 
constructs can learn how to neutralize it. Once the 
thanatars finish with the troublesome item, the sil 
versanns get their chance to look it over. The thana 
tars also store devices here that they have built to 
make themselves more efficient in combat. The 
thanatars exist only to function as protectors of the 
graveyard society, and anything they discover to 
help them in this task brings them a certain form of 
pleasure. 

Thanatars thoroughly question any characters 
who have managed to damage a thanatar unit in 
battle. The questioning continues until the thana 
tars feel they know everything they need to fashion 
a way to counter any future attacks of this nature, 
whether that means designing a new weapon or 
learning a new tactical maneuver. Thanatars make 
dangerous foes, and adventurers should find it very 
difficult (if not impossible) to fool them with the 
same trick twice. 

The thanatars deemed most of the objects in this 
room of limited use to themselves, but still keep them 
here "just in case." DMs should feel free to fill this 
room with exotic weapons of all types, as well as 
interesting-looking items that have no purpose (other 
than to keep the players on their toes.) 

Room 11: The Anew a 

A heavy layer of gravel covers the floor of this 
huge, brightly-lit cavern. Tattered pennants line 
the walls, apparent remnants of past adventuring 
parties, and the air of festivity they impart seems 
jarring. In some demented fashion the atmos 
phere reminds you of a coliseum, but you don't 
want to think too much about what type of com 
bats might take place here, or what the typical 
audience might comprise . . . 



This room is exactly what it appears to be: a com 
bat and training arena. While thanatars do not have 
to keep in shape like living warriors, they do like to 
refine their combat techniques. Thanatars work here 
with objects stored in the previous area in order to 
find better ways to attack with or defend against 
them, and sometimes bring to this place any prisoners 
who gave them trouble in combat and have them 
repeat their tactics in battle until the thanatars devise 
a suitable defense. The thanatars take every possible 
care to leave prisoners undamaged for further 
research-unless, of course, they endanger the safety 
of the graveyard. At any one time it is 35% likely that 
one or two thanatars are here honing their skills in 
one manner or another. They do not damage each 
other in the sparring, except for an occasional dent or 
scratch that the ferragans can easily fix. Two addi 
tional thanatars guard each entrance to this area 
when prisoners take part in combat tests, in hopes of 
preventing escape if the prisoners have any new tricks 
up their collective sleeve. 

SllvefcSANNS' 

A 1Z&AS 

Room 1 -2: Heavy Metal Magic 

Stacks of books fill this huge cavern. Many of 
the covers have titles on them in languages you 
can't read, but even a quick glance reveals sev 
eral spell books. The sheer volume of printed 
matter here boggles the mind; you don't even 
want to guess at the total number of volumes in 
this room. Two small metal creatures sit in the 
center of this room, reading through the vol 
umes and occasionally making an arcane gesture 
or pronouncing a string of strange syllables, to 
no apparent effect. 

Silversanns devoted to the study of spellcasting 
spend much of their time here. The silversanns 
understand that organic creatures often have the abil 
ity to create bizarre circumstances through the use of 
spells. However, they cannot fathom why they cannot 


create the same effects by speaking the same words 
and making the same gestures. The silversanns in this 
area question any captured spellcasters of any type. 
They have not quite worked out the fundamental dif 
ference between priests and wizards except that 
priests don't seem to have books, and tend to babble 
about something called "faith," which the constructs 
don't understand. 

This room holds over a hundred spell books con 
taining nearly every wizard spell available from first 
through fifth level. Some contain spells of greater 
level, but these are scarcer and more difficult to find. 
This affords an excellent opportunity to introduce a 
new spell to your campaign from one of the supple 
ments or from a different campaign world, since 
arcane knowledge from many different lands and 
worlds resides here. 

Innumerable books on spell theory and even on the 
worship of several gods also line the shelves, many 
extremely old and rare, and worth a great deal to a 
collector. Stealing them presents a sticky situation, 
however, as the silversanns have memorized the con 
tents of their library and have a computer's uncanny 
knack for noticing out-of-place items. A successful 
removal likely calls for the inelegant "snatch-and- 
run" ploy, grabbing something and dashing for one of 
the gates. Even then the party would have to fight the 
silversanns for possession, since they certainly would 
not give up any of their research materials willingly. 
A better ploy involves convincing the constructs to 
trade for something else valuable, like metal, knowl 
edge, or magic. 

The silversanns have pored diligently over their 
library of books, but so far the only magical effect 
they have successfully reproduced from reading their 
captured spellbooks destroyed several volumes (pre 
viously trapped with explosive runes, unbeknownst to 
the researchers). The silversanns are uncertain as to 
what caused this destructive spell to work for them, 
but they have taken encouragement from it. After 
all, if they can get one magical effect to work, per 
haps they may one day learn the secret of magic. (Of 
course, they never will -only living or once-living 
creatures can manipulate the energies necessary to 
cast spells.) 




57 



The silversanns eagerly allow any spellcasters to 
help them in their research, and ask them to cast low 
level spells from their large collection of books. They 
intently watch anyone willing to cast a spell for them. 
One of them observes every word and gesture closely, 
while another records it for future research. The 
hopeful constructs then try to duplicate the process, 
to no avail. 

Room 13: Staff Inspection 

Sticks and rods of various shapes and sizes lie in 
piles and stand in racks inside this large cham 
ber. Scorch marks and other remnants of a great 
magical battle mar the center of the room. Two 
silversann units crouch before the racks, com 
municating in their strange mechanical lan 
guage. 

All manner of rods, staves, and wands fill this 
room. Most of the devices here have no more charges, 
and crumble at a touch. Only a few of the items still 
work, and even they have few charges remaining. The 
two silversanns here want to ascertain why, although 
they themselves cannot manipulate magical energies, 
other, inanimate, less intelligent objects apparently 
can. The signs of apparent battle merely show the 
results of years of research with the devices for which 
the silversanns know the command words. 

The two silversanns wish to question any spell cast 
ers of sufficient level to create magical items (should 
they admit to having done so). The silversanns wish 
to determine if they inadvertently left a step out of 
the creation of magical items of their own construc 
tion-a step that might allow them to cast spells, like 
these other, unintelligent objects apparently can. 
This research relates closely to the work in the previ 
ous room, and those silversanns often work closely 
with the ones in this room. 

The silversanns become especially excited if one of 
the party spellcasters offers to recharge one of the 
still-functioning magical items. (PCs in this situation 
may regain use of their spellbooks for a time.) The 
process of putting spell energy back into an object fas 
cinates the silversanns, and they want the spellcaster 


to explain every step of the way. The two silversanns 
from this area and the ones from the spell research 
area discuss the process, and any possible applications 
for their own research, for hours. The conversation 
absorbs them totally - but not to the extent that they 
lose track of their new prize (the spellcaster). Party 
spellcasters who cooperate with the two research 
teams find themselves very much in demand. They 
may find the opportunity to gain much information 
about the cavern complex, albeit at the cost of a great 
deal of work and a lot of lost sleep, since the silver 
sanns hesitate to let this treasure out of their sight. 

Room 14: 

Magical Weapons am<3 Aizmoiz 

This area reminds you of the spare parts room. 
Metal objects lie scattered everywhere. Most of 
them look like pieces of armor and weapons, but 
in the confusion you can't easily tell. Certainly 
the number of parts here would make several 
complete sets of armor, but it would take days to 
sort them, even for the metal monsters living 
here. A lone silversann here arranges and 
rearranges piles of random objects. A small tub 
of acid sits next to a large forge in one corner of 
the room, and in the center of the area rests a 
huge rock that seems to be set with ropes and 
winches attached to the ceiling. 

The silversann in this room is attempting to find a 
way to physically or magically alter metal to make it 
harder and more resistant to damage. It believes that 
digging presents the only way to escape the cavern 
complex, and that if they can alter the bodies of the 
metal monsters assigned to mining, they may someday 
accomplish this. This silversann willingly discusses 
mining procedures with any of the characters who 
have some expertise in that area. 

The unit is presently studying what circumstances 
cause magical weapons and armor to lose their magi 
cal qualities. To this end, it spends its time testing 
objects by bathing them in acid, melting them at the 
forge, or dropping the rock on them from ceiling 
height. (If an item fails its save, it's history.) Squch 


has told it that magically hardening the bodies of the 
miners is not of great use if the metal can lose its 
dweomer when subjected to great stress. 

It is also trying to ascertain why objects such as 
suits of magical armor seem to provide extra protec 
tion from hardship only when intact. Early efforts to 
use magical weapons and armor in the construction of 
miners focused on melting down the magical items 
and using the metal to repair constructs that had 
become damaged. The creatures soon realized that 
when reformed, the metal exhibited no special prop 
erties. The constructs find such little irregularities 
quite confusing. 

Room 15: Shnse£>b&& WhatT 

This area is a mess. Shreds and tatters of cloth 
hang from protrusions on the walls, and lie in 
piles everywhere. Random bits of pottery, glass, 
and small gems lie strewn about like playthings 
in a nursery for an exceedingly large and messy 
child. As you look in, you can see one of the sil- 
versann units happily shredding what appears to 
have been an exceptionally well-made, silvery- 
gray cloak. The silversann must have started 
shredding this cloak quite some time ago, since 
the cloak is half gone and the floor around the 
unit is covered with tiny strips of cloth. 

All the magical items that do not fit any of the other 
categories end up here. Most of the silversanns feel 
that these items cannot aid them in their search for an 
escape from the cavern, and do not care what the cus 
todian of this area does with them, as long as a few 
items always remain available for feeding to the sala 
mander in the smelting room furnace. This is just as 
well, since this silversann has formed a rather interest 
ing theory about the nature of magical energy. It has 
decided that since most magical items lose their powers 
if torn or broken, the magical energy that they formerly 
carried must escape into the air upon their destruction. 
Therefore, if a creature created by magic (like a silver 
sann unit) surrounds itself with enough of this free- 
floating magical energy, it should eventually absorb 
enough energy to gain the ability to manipulate spells. 











The unit spends at least half of each day completely 
buried in a huge pile of shredded and dismantled magi 
cal items. It hasn't noticed any changes in its abilities 
so far, but that has not discouraged it in the least. The 
silversann is friendly and pleasant, and perfectly willing 
to talk for hours to any interested parties about its 
hypothesis. It has grown used to the other silversanns 
discrediting its ideas, so it politely listens to any contra 
dictory arguments and then merrily ignores them. 

This should be enough to make any red-blooded, 
treasure-hungry adventurer cry. The remains of hun 
dreds of items lie in heaps in this cavern. Of course, 
the other silversanns do not let this one have any 
item until it has been thoroughly tested for use in 
their research, so the PCs probably won't see any of 
their objects here . . . 

Room 16: The Workshop 

This brightly lit area is the most orderly and 
controlled section of the complex you have seen 
so far. Across the cavern you can see two silver 
sann units and a ferragan clustered around an 
apparently broken silversann. Its outer coverings 
have been removed; the trio of workers has 
neatly lined up the various parts on the floor, 
within easy reach. They appear to be modifying 
a piece in an attempt to attach it to the inside of 
the dismantled unit. The two silversanns try the 
piece and, seemingly dissatisfied with the fit, 
hand it to the ferragan for modifications. 

The silversanns' current project, the creation of a 
magic-using metal monster, takes place in this room. 
Several months ago, Trobriand carelessly discarded a 
non-working but repairable silversann unit. The units 
decided to put some of the research they have all 
been working on for the past several years to the test 
to try to give this unit the ability to wield magical 
energy. They have modified and reactivated the unit 
several times but have so far not seen any magical 
capability in it. Pieces of various magical items have 
gone into its reconstruction (some sections of wands, 
an intact ring of spell storing, some magical plate mail, 
etc.) in the hope that this will give it the ability to 


learn and store spells in its memory. The silversanns 
have plenty of time to try just about anything. The 
whole of the silversann's present research program 
focuses on this, and these two units can call upon any 
resources available in the graveyard. 

A ferragan whose only job is to follow their instruc 
tions aids them in their research. They listen politely 
to any character who has a constructive opinion, and 
willingly give any reasonable-sounding options a try, 
but by no means can PCs convince them that their 
hypotheses are totally wrong. 

Room 17: The UMeyArrOMed 
Uf e Is NoT WorTH Uv) wg 

A stone dais rests against the east wall of this 
brightly-lit room. A silversann sits in one of 10 
hollow depressions in the dais. A platform at the 
back of the dais looks just about the right height to 
comfortably support a human sitting on the edge. 

Here the silversanns meet to discuss recent develop 
ments in their research. Their taking the same posi 
tions at each daily meeting for many years has worn 
the depressions into the dais. The meetings seldom last 
long, since the silversanns make very little progress in 
their research from day to day. However, this gives the 
silversanns a chance to trade ideas back and forth 
between themselves on a regular basis, and for Squch 
to announce any changes in their functions. 

More importantly to the party, interrogation of 
people who arrive through the gate takes place here. 
The silversanns ask seemingly meaningless questions 
at a furious rate, often barely giving a person time to 
answer one before firing off another. They often 
change the subject in the middle of the interrogation 
as something new occurs to them. Since they have 
some rather strange ideas about the nature of magic, 
they assign great import to the most mundane of 
answers. This can go on for hours at a time, and prob 
ably will, unless the subjects finally remind the silver 
sanns that unlike metal monsters, living creatures 
need to eat and sleep. The silversanns are not insensi 
tive to the needs of their prisoners, they just forget 
the organics' limitations. 


60 



The enhanced scaladar known as Squch might also 
be found in this room, particularly if the party has 
done something to warrant the personal attention of 
the complex's leader. If the PCs hope to escape the 
graveyard, they either have to avoid Squch's notice, 
persuade Squch to release them (not an easy task), or 
defeat Squch in battle. If the characters try to escape 
by sheer brute force, Squch forms the last line of 
defense against them. If the party actually destroys 
Squch, that apparent victory triggers Trobriand's 
wrath, and he will take action against them as out 
lined in the section entitled "The Master." 

This room has two secret doors, one on each side of 
the dais. They lead to narrow corridors leading to the 
"claws" of the complex: the locations of the exit gates. 
The metal monsters concealed, these areas to keep 
their test subjects from leaving before they have 
divulged all their secrets. The doors are not particu 
larly well hidden, and anyone actively searching for 
them has double the normal chances to find the exits. 

The tunnels themselves are long and cramped - 
five feet tall and five feet wide -and quite dark. The 
air coming from these tunnels smells different from 
that in the rest of the complex, almost like fresh air- 
a way out. 

Rooms 18 & 19: 

The Dead ZoMes 

Magic-dead caverns lead to the exit gates. Upon 
entering them, any magical spell effects currently run 
ning terminate, and magical items cease to function. 

Rooms HO & HI: 

The Fuze Escapes 

These areas, virtually identical in appearance, curve 
out to form the "claws" of the scorpion that the cav 
ern complex resembles. Large, round pits containing 
pillars of flickering, multi-colored flames await at the 
ends of the claws. While these flames feel hot when 
approached, they do no damage to those who enter 
them. They do have the property of dampening magic 
inside their areas, so spells to determine their func 
tion have no effect. They also share the same restric 


tions as the entry gates regarding the transport of non 
living matter. The magic dampener has the added 
effect of immobilizing any metal monster that enters 
the area. This effectively traps the creation until a 
harness can be rigged to pull it out. This resulted in 
large pileups of metal monsters the first few times that 
they tried entering the gates to escape. 

The only difference in the two gates is that the one 
in the north passage leads out of the realm of Under 
mountain, to a place of the DM's choosing, while the 
one to the south merely transports those who enter it 
to random areas of the vast underground realm (again, 
your choice). The southern gate also changes its desti 
nation every turn. The flame flickers rapidly during the 
change, and returns to a steady burn after the switch is 
complete. If a party of adventurers enters the flames 
one at a time, roll a dlO to see how many rounds 
remain before the gate changes destinations. The result 
indicates how many party members go to the first desti 
nation. The remainder teleport somewhere different, 
perhaps miles removed from their companions. 

Note that nearly all of the inhabitants of this com 
plex know the locations of the two gates, but not the 
difference between them, and the less intelligent ones 
usually reveal the locations to anyone who asks them 
straight out. A lone silversann might be persuaded to 
trade this knowledge for the right bit of information. 
Only the thanatars and Squch refuse to give this 
information. 

L1-L6: Mtwtwg A^eas 

Metal monsters trying to expand the area of the com 
plex crowd into these dimly lit, noisy areas, making it 
difficult to tell one from another. Each mining area 
contains encounters for the party (see the section 
entitled "Areas of Interest"). Many metal monsters 
work in these rooms, up to 10 in each section, 
attempting to dig their way out of the complex at 
Squch's command. If PCs stood in one spot and 
watched the digging monsters' progress, they would 
note that the creatures make little or no headway in 
a week, let alone over the course of a day. The crea 
tures abrade more than they mine, and once a day a 
small unit comes by and gathers up the rock dust to 



take to the ferragans so that they can extract any 
useful material. These areas contain small veins of 
mithral, as well. 

The less intelligent metal monsters in the complex 
carry out the digging. Smart players can worm a lot of 
information out of them (if they can understand the 
creatures) as long as they don't interfere with the 
units' assigned tasks. This can work against the char 
acters, as well. If they want any information, they 
have to be very explicit in their questioning. These 
literal-minded machines tend to answer the wording 
of questions, rather than the meaning. 

AizeAS of IhfCeriesX 

A. The pool at the end of this cavern contains a giant 
bloodworm. It hungrily attacks anyone who comes 
within five feet of the pool. 

Bloodworm, Giant (1): Int Non; AL N; AC 4; MV 
6, Br 1; HD 6; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; SA 
Blood Drain; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ H; ML 17; XP 420. 


B. This entire area off the Holding Pens is magic- 
dead. No constructs dig in this area, and only one 
metal monster -a lone, unspecialized, completely 
deactivated unit-leans against the wall. 

A subterranean lizard lairs here. The metal mon 
sters have spotted it a few times, but have not yet 
developed a method for chasing it across ceilings, and 
so it has remained here, feeding off the unwary crea 
tures drawn in by Trobriand's gate. The lizard attempts 
to make lunch out of the adventurers, as it has not fed 
for several days. 

Lizard, Subterranean (1): Int Non; AL N; AC5; MV 
12; HD 6; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 2-12; SA Sp; SD 
Nil; MR Nil; SZ H; ML 9; XP 650. 

C. Any living creature passing within 15 feet of these 
areas sets off a flashing red light in the center of the 
room that alerts any constructs here of their presence. 

D. A slithering tracker in this area finds and attacks 
the party. 



62 





Ooze, Slithering Tracker (1): Int Av; AL N; AC 5; 

MV 12; HD 5; THACO 15; #AT 0; Dmg Nil; SA Par- 
alyzation; SD Transparency; MR Nil; SZ S; ML 15; 
XP 975. 

E. These areas contain the skeletal remains of previ 
ous adventurers. The bodies found in the Holding 
Pens are freshly dead, and any character attempting to 
communicate with them by means of a speak with dead 
spell discovers that they died of starvation after many 
days of questioning and escape attempts. They had 
seen most of the complex, and had heard of the gates 
that are the only way out. They know only that these 
exits lie somewhere "beyond the silversanns." 

F. Three cave fishers, angry at the invasion of their 
territory, ambush the PCs on their way to the exits. 
Unfortunately for the PCs, this is also a magic-dead 
area, and the cave fishers have learned that their fila 
ments cannot be severed here, since magical bonuses 
on weapons do not work. 

Cave Fishers (3): Int Semi; AL N; AC 4; MV 1; HD 
3; THACO 17 or 15; #AT 2; Dmg 2-8/2-8; SA Adhe 
sive trapline; SD Sp; MR Nil; SZ M; ML 11; XP 175 
each. 

G. The PCs notice a small mass of pebble-like spheres 
here, actually the eggs of a trapper. The adult trapper 
guards its eggs from very nearby; in fact, the PCs are 
standing on it! 

Trapper (1): Int High; AL N; AC 3; MV 3; HD 12; 
THACO 9; #AT 4+; Dmg Sp; SA Sp; SD Nil; MR 
Nil; SZ H; ML 11; XP 3,000. 

Once the PCs deal with the trapper, they can find 
its treasure: 15 gp, 32 sp, a diamond worth 100 gp, 
and a potion of extra-healing. 

H. Minute traces of mithral still glitter in these veins. 
Recovering any of this precious metal proves long, 
slow, and difficult, as the metal monsters have found: 
Trobriand magically hardened the stone to prevent 
attempts to dig an escape route. 










MuIk&Us GauNJlleT 


B he strange and twisted being who is 
Muiral discovered a great complex 
that had evidently been abandoned 
by the Drow in ages past. The area 
had been excavated to serve as liv 
ing quarters and a learning academy, and was now 
home to an odd collection of monsters. Feeling a cer 
tain irony in using the past dwellings of these hated 
dwellers of the dark places, he appropriated them for 
his own, and even added to them. Some of the crea 
tures inhabiting the area he slew or drove away; 
others he kept or modified to create suitable chal 
lenges for the opponents he brings here to test his 
powers. 

Over the many years, he has filled these vast halls 
with the creatures whose company his twisted mind 
enjoys. There are nests of giant spiders (including 
some varieties seen nowhere else in the planes), pits 
of foul undead, and even a group of driders trapped 
from the caverns where they dwelt. In his tormented 
mental state, he considers these things sources of 
beauty, and cultivates them as others might nurture a 
flower garden. 

He has trained these creatures to stay in their own 
territories and interact with each other as little as 
possible. However, occasionally he initiates conflicts 
to strengthen the groups, or to weed out the popula 
tion of monsters. The creatures in his gauntlet have 
learned the hard way not to attack Muiral in his wan 
derings, and some of the less intelligent of them have 
even begun to view him as a leader. 

Muiral constructed his "Gauntlet" on a rather 
grand scale, with 20' ceilings and 20' wide corridors 
(unless otherwise stated). The halls wind in the con 
voluted style that the Drow find so amusing, and 
Muiral has deliberately enhanced this maze-like effect 
to keep his subjects off balance until they reach that 
portion of the complex where Muiral awaits them. He 
has also enchanted the whole area with several per 
manent guards and wards. Due to the methods used in 


this enchantment, effects six and seven of the guards 
and wards spell occur at random in the gauntlet, and 
DMs may place these as they see fit. DMs should read 
up on this spell before running a party through this 
area, and keep it in mind at all times; describe the 
mist in the hallways, the confusing passages, the wiz 
ard locked doors, to add atmosphere to the dungeon. 
Dispel magic dispels one effect of the spell within the 
range of the caster for 1-4 turns; after that, the per 
manency reinstates the effect. 

The Gauntlet itself is a strange area decorated in a 
style that even in its decay mirrors the taste of the 
ancient Drow. This area has obviously been aban 
doned by the dark elves for centuries and little evi 
dence remains to tell which of the great families 
dwelt here. It may have been a family that escaped 
massacre by others of their kind, buying survival at 
the cost of exile, or it may have been a remnant of 
the separation of the elves into the light and dark 
many millennia ago. Everything of value that they 
left when this area was vacated may well be gone 
now, but who knows? The Drow are masters of misdi 
rection, and the most ordinary-appearing items may 
be treasures from their ancient days. 

Little is left of the furnishings, of course. What 
fragments survived the years before Muiral's arrival 
have been roughly handled by the new inhabitants of 
this realm. However, the walls still hold fragments of 
the carvings and mosaics that the original owners 
used to enliven their surroundings. The artificial halls 
and rooms are carved and decorated over most of 
their surfaces (including ceilings) with elaborate bas- 
relief sculptures showing various scenes pleasing to 
the Drow. These scenes are well-crafted but visually 
unexceptional. Many of the carvings are meant to be 
touched to reveal their true artistry. Indeed, some of 
the sections have been so well carved as to give the 
impression of living flesh under the fingers. The irreg 
ularity of the stone surface gives a +15% to the 
chance to climb walls, but a climber who comes into 


64 




contact with one of these specially carved areas (one 
chance in ten per 10 feet climbed) must make a save 
versus paralysis, or be so surprised that he or she lets 
go of the wall and falls to the ground. Climbers get a 
+1 bonus to this save for each successful saving throw. 

This elaborate carving also creates a plethora of 
hiding places for secret doors and their triggers. 
Therefore, characters are at -1 to find secret doors 
while in these areas. 

All of these tunnels and rooms, except for the nat 
ural caverns housing the fungus farms and the old 
animal pens, are still dimly lit by the permanent faerie 
fire used by the Drow to decorate their areas so long 
ago. The illumination has weakened with time, but 
still provides barely enough light to navigate by. If 
this is the only light source, surface dwellers suffer a 
-1 penalty on attack rolls and a penalty of 1 level in 
their combat Armor Class. Members of subterranean 
races (dwarves, deep gnomes, etc.) and those skilled 
in the nonweapon proficiency of blind fighting suffer 
no penalties. 

Undead within these halls are turned as if they 
were three categories higher on the chart. Any 
undead destroyed reform 1-3 days later unless a 
remove curse is cast upon the remains; therefore, they 
know they have little to fear from the adventurers. 

Muiral uses this area and the gates leading to it to 
bring adventurers to face him from all over the 
Forgotten Realms, ensuring himself a steady supply of 
opponents to occupy his time. 

There are certain safe areas where wandering 
adventurers might be allowed to rest, though this rest 
may be disrupted if Muiral has decided that the party 
is too strong and may pose a threat to him. In this 
case, he sends creatures to disturb the adventurers and 
rob them of sleep. Sufficiently strong magical protec 
tion might prevent this. 

Muiral has the ability to command undead, and 
enjoys their company (at least as much as he enjoys 
anything). A group of trapped adventurers might 
therefore catch a glimpse of him here or hear him 
howling his rage and frustration during the night. 
However, he never confronts a party in this area, pre 
ferring to let them be worn down a bit more before 
the final confrontation at the Gauntlet's end. 


The Way 

The gate that brings the party into Muiral's gauntlet is 
projected by Muiral onto any reflective surface, such 
as calm water, ice, polished stone, bright metal, and, 
of course, mirrors. The gate works through any surface 
shiny and smooth enough in which to see an image of 
oneself. Muiral often sends a gate out at random when 
he is bored, trolling for challenges. When he is lucid 
enough, he sometimes brings a party of adventurers to 
him so that he may acquire an item of theirs that he 
finds interesting, or because they are luckless enough 
to possess the beauty that is lost to him forever. 

There are several methods of involving your play 
ers with Muiral and his gauntlet. The easiest, as in 
the previous section, is to have them drawn in by ran 
dom chance. Perversely, this can add a bit of realism 
to your campaign background. The history of your 
gaming world seldom revolves around a group of nor 
mal adventurers, and sometimes random events sweep 
them into circumstances they had not anticipated. 

The party could be summoned by a powerful per 
sonage to lead a rescue mission. (For example, when 
the gate opened to take someone away, a mage was 
able to hold it open long enough to summon help. 
The twist is that the characters would have to go with 
whatever equipment they brought along to answer 
the summons. The gate could close any minute, and 
the opportunity to mount a rescue would be lost.) 
Once inside, the adventurers would now have two 
goals. They would have to find the people who were 
already drawn into the gate and also find their way out 
alive. 

Perhaps the characters could be hired by someone 
whose establishment has been afflicted with one of 
Muiral's gates, such as a Temple of Sune (Muiral 
would probably enjoy tormenting the adherents of 
the goddess of beauty), a conclave of mages (he likes 
to collect new spells and magical items), or most 
especially an adventurers' guild (where there would 
be experienced opponents as well as new items and 
spells). 

Once Muiral (or the DM) chooses his gate's latest 
location, the magic lies dormant until a creature of 
low Intelligence or better looks into the reflecting 




surface, or even glances at it in passing. (If you can't 
decide if a character looks or not, have them roll ver 
sus Wisdom -3). The victim must save versus death 
magic or be enthralled by the reflection. Over the 
course of several rounds, the victim's reflection gradu 
ally changes to that of a hideous monster that even in 
its ugliness is still recognizably his or her own form. 
At this point, when the victim screams in terror at 
the vision, everyone within a 20' radius of the reflect 
ing surface is drawn into it. There is no save for the 
original victim. Anyone else in the area of effect can 
save versus death magic to escape. The surface works 
as a gate for three more rounds, providing access in 
case anyone else wants to enter voluntarily; then it 
ceases to function for 24 hours. 

A victim who makes the original save versus death 
magic sees nothing out of the ordinary, but feels a 
momentary sense of uneasiness, as if someone were 
watching. During the next 3-6 nights, the victim 
experiences nightmares in which she or he is changed 
into a hideous creature. After the nightmares run 
their course, the victim loses one point of Wisdom 
from the experience. This loss can be prevented by a 
remove curse cast before the term of the nightmares 
ends. Afterwards, the loss is permanent, unless coun 
tered by a wish, heal, or restoration. 

There are other mirrored surfaces scattered around 
the school complex by Muiral. Once each person in 
the party is wearing one of the amulets of free passage 
(see the "New Magical Items" section), Muiral acti 
vates the magic of the gates. The first mirrored surface 
the party passes thereafter functions in the same man 
ner as the entry gate, drawing the party into itself and 
teleporting them to a random location in the second 
half of the dungeon, where they eventually encounter 
their host. If the party makes their save against death 
magic as above, then the next gate they pass has the 
same chance to work its magic, until the characters 
have at last gone to meet Muiral. 

Until the gates are activated, any character looking 
or glancing into a mirrored surface (except for those 
in the Hall of Mirrors) sees words in faintly glowing 
letters: "I am waiting," "Muiral awaits," "You are 
mine," and the like. 

There are ten amulets of free passage to be found 


throughout the complex. If your adventuring party 
should require more than these ten, place more 
amulets in appropriate places so that there are enough 
for each party member. 

MmUl Him self 

CEhmF9/W13 (see below); AC 3; Mv 15; HP 89; 
THACO 12 (9 w/sword); #AT 2 + special; Dmg 1-6 + 
poison (tail sting)/spell or weapon type: 1-10+3/ 
3-18+3 (vorpal sword +3); SA: control undead to 300', 
ESP (permanent and automatic), mind blank; CON 
16; INT 18. Spells: see below. 

Muiral was formerly a bodyguard to Halaster. He 
followed his former master to Undermountain and 
abandoned the way of the warrior to learn magic. He 
specialized in the ways of transformation and alter 
ation magic and soon surpassed all other pupils. He 
loved magical research and was always looking for 
ways to transform creatures into "more efficient" 
forms - until the day an experiment gone awry 
resulted in his present form. Now, he is a hideous 
creature who appears human from the waist up, but 
has the body and eight legs of a giant spider below 
and a tail with a scorpion's sting, which can extend to 
6' away in any direction. Any creature that feels the 
sting of his tail takes ld6 points of damage and must 
save versus paralyzation at -2 or be paralyzed for 1 
turn + ldlO rounds. 

The magical accident that left Muiral with this 
hideous form left him understandably embittered and 
somewhat unbalanced. His permanent abilities of 
ESP, mind blank, and control undead have made him 
quite powerful but also quite mad. Through the years 
this condition has worsened to the point where he is 
hopelessly insane, and is seldom (perhaps once a 
year) lucid enough to continue his magical research. 
Muiral hates the world and everyone in it for his con 
dition. He perhaps hates himself most of all, and 
hates that he has been unable to reverse his own mag 
ical transformation. He feels a kindred with undead, 
as they are perhaps the only creatures that hate 
humanity as much as he does. His twisted body causes 
him to suffer constant pain, and the only way he has 


66 




found to lessen that pain is by lashing out at all others 
who are not as twisted as himself. He could perhaps 
be cured of his insanity and his malformation, but the 
only one in Undermountain with that ability is Hal- 
aster, and he rather enjoys his former student's misfor 
tune. Halaster found Muiral somewhat stolid and 
boring before his transformation, and now he is at 
least interesting. 

If encountered, Muiral is carrying a two-handed 
vorpal sword +3 and wearing his ring of fire resistance 
and the horned ring (see "New Magical Items" section) 
given to him by Halaster. Muiral knows the gates of 
Undermountain well, and uses them to escape power 
ful or persistent foes. 

He also has a powerful roster of spells (5,5,5,4,4,2) 
that he does not hesitate to use. He usually carries: 
chill touch, color spray, magic missile x3; alter self, create 
water, flaming sphere, web, infratorch; dispel magic, fire 
ball, fly, haste, lightning bolt; charm monster, dig, enerva 
tion, polymorph other; animate dead, hold monster, 
monster summoning III, wall of force; chain lightning *2. 

Muiral finds little pleasure in life except in testing 
his power against mighty monsters and adventurers 
who venture into Undermountain. He enjoys en 
countering opponents to see if they are worthy, and is 
usually disappointed. He used to roam the halls of 
Undermountain looking for something challenging to 
battle and destroy. Finally, he decided to bring these 
challenges to him. He created his gauntlet to assure 
himself a steady supply of opponents with which to 
challenge himself. 

Gradually, Muiral has withdrawn into his gauntlet. 
He is like a wounded animal, crawling off to a dark 
place where he can surround himself with creatures as 
ugly and vile as himself. In truth, Muiral craves death 
and fears it as well. He brings adventurers here hop 
ing inwardly that some intrepid group is strong, or 
skilled, or lucky enough to put an end to his pain. 
However, the few times he was close to death, he fled 
in terror using his horned ring to take him to a place of 
safety. Later he hunted down the groups who threat 
ened him and killed them by stealth, out of fear that 
they might come back and finish him off. Thus even 
if the party is strong enough to survive Muiral's gaunt 
let and escape, Muiral continues to plague them. He 


will never feel safe as long as they are alive. He may 
not always attack them himself, but he often settles 
for sending some horrible creatures to visit them 
when they least expect it. This should make them 
very unpopular as house guests wherever they travel. 
The only way the characters would ever truly be rid of 
him is to kill him, unless they could somehow heal 
him. But between his own considerable abilities and 
the magical items he has collected over the years, a 
party would have to deal him truly massive damage to 
kill him before he could escape to lick his wounds and 
plan a return engagement. Muiral maintains other 
refuges where he keeps items for healing or the para 
phernalia of spell research, and has magic readied to 
pull him away to a place of healing in the event of his 
death. If Muiral is killed, Halaster might just decide 
that the group that slew Muiral needs a visit from 
some of his own servants, particularly if they took 
possession of the homed ring. 

The gauntlet is where Muiral goes to court death. 
He tells himself that by bringing those who are not 
as twisted as himself here and killing them, he 
proves that he has merely traded physical beauty for 
strength, but in his heart he knows the truth. 

Muiral also knows that the intelligent inhabitants 
of his gauntlet hate him and would like to see him 
slain, but their fear for him is stronger than their 
hatred, and they would never oppose him themselves. 

Muiral does not know whether his present form 
will ever wear out or grow old. He has not been able 
to see the signs of aging since his accident, and that 
was many years ago. The truth is that in transforming 
himself, he may have given himself the chance to live 
forever. The irony is that although he may have 
found what so many have searched for since the 
beginning of time, he doesn't really want it. 

Although Muiral is wildly irrational, he is not stu 
pid. Muiral is a deadly and cunning opponent and 
should be played as such. In order to defeat him or 
even to escape him, characters must be careful and 
smart as well as skilled. Sheer brute force does not 
guarantee survival. A battle with Muiral should be 
something that experienced adventurers will remem 
ber (and have nightmares of) for the rest of their 
lives. 



Rawdom EwcouwTeRs 

While in the training areas, roll for random encoun 
ters once every three hours. Encounters occur on a 1 
on a d6, and will consist of a group from the following 
table. Roll 2d6 to see what is encountered: 

Roll Creatures Encountered 

2 Wraiths (2-12) 

3 Spectres (1-6) 

4 Shadows (2-12) 

5 Skeletons (3-30) 

6 Zombies, Ju-Ju (1-4) 

7 Zombies, Monster (1-6) 

8 Skeletons, Animal (2-20) 

9 Banshee (1) 

10 Ghost (1) 

11 Wraith-Spiders (2-5) 

12 Shadow Lurker (1) 


Skeleton (3-30): Int Non; AL N; AC 7; MV 12; HD 
1; hp 7 ea.; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; SA Nil; 
SD Half damage from edged weapons; MR Sp; SZ M; 
ML Sp; XP 65 each. 

Skeleton, Animal (2-20): Int Non; AL N; AC 8; 

MV 6; HD 1-1; hp 5 ea.; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 
1-4; SA Nil; SD Half damage from edged weapons; 
MR Sp; SZ S-M; ML Sp; XP 65 each. 

Spectres (1-6): Int High; AL LE; AC 2; MV 15, El 
30 (B); HD 7+3; hp 55 ea.; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 
1-8; SA Drain; SD + 1 or better to hit; MR Sp; SZ M; 
ML 15; XP 3,000 each. 

Wraiths (2-12): Int Very; AL LE; AC 4; MV 12 El 
24 (B); HD 5+3; hp 42 ea.; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 
1-6; SA Drain; SD Silver or +1 or better to hit; MR 
Nil; SZ M; ML 15; XP 2,000 each. 


All of the above monsters (except for the wraith-spi 
ders and the shadow lurker, which are included in this 
set) are detailed in the Monstrous Compendium(r), 
Volumes 1 and 2, or in the Monstrous Manual. Basic 
statistics are included below for convenience. 

Banshee (1): Int Exc; AL CE; AC 0; MV 15; HD 7; 
hp 52; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; SA Death wail; 
SD +1 or better weapon to hit; MR 50%; SZ M; ML 
13; XP 4,000 each. 

Ghost (1): Int High; AL LE; AC 0 or 8; MV 9; HD 
10; hp 73; THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg Age 10-40 yrs; 
SA Sp; SD Sp; MR Nil; SZ M; ML Sp; XP 7,000 
each. 

Shadows (2-12): Int Low; AL CE; AC 7; MV 12; 
HD 3+3; hp 22 ea.; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2-5 + 
Sp; SA Str drain; SD +1 or better to hit; MR Sp; SZ 
M; ML Sp; XP 420 each. 


Wraith-Spiders (2-5): Int Very; AL LE; AC 5; MV 
15 Web 18; HD 3+2; hp 22 ea.; THACO 17; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-4; SA Drain + Poison; SD Silver or +1 or bet 
ter to hit; MR 15%; SZ M; ML 15; XP 2,000 each. 

Zombies, Ju-Ju (1-4): Int Low; AL NE; AC 6; MV 
9; HD 3+12; hp 35 ea.; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 

3- 12; SA Sp; SD Sp; MR Sp; SZ M; ML Sp; XP 975 
each. 

Zombies, Monster (1-6): Int Non; AL N; AC 6; 
MV 9; HD 6; hp 45 ea.; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 

4- 16; SA Nil; SD Sp; MR Sp; SZ L; ML Sp; XP 650 
each. 

On a 25% chance, encounters with skeletons or ju 
ju zombies are with the remains of prior victims of 
Muiral. They may (50%) have one item each of +1 
enchantment, giving them either a higher Armor 
Class or better damage on attacks. 


Shadow Lurker (1): Int Low; AL CE; AC 4; MV 3; 
HD 5+3; hp 40; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; SA 
Str drain; SD +1 or better to hit; MR Nil; SZ L; ML 
15; XP 1,400 each. 



68 



MuIkaVs GauNJlleTr 

The Cone Rooms 

Room 1: The Hall of Mlmzoris 

You suddenly find yourself in a brightly lit room 
surrounded by hundreds of people. You feel dizzy 
and disoriented, and the last thing you remem 
ber is the feeling of being somehow pulled into 
that hideous reflection. As your eyes adjust to 
the brightness, you realize that you are actually 
in a room filled with mirrors, and the other fig 
ures you thought you saw are only reflections. 

This room used to be the entry hall for the train 
ing schools in this area. Anyone teleported here 
arrives at the spot marked X in a mirrored alcove. 
They arrive facing to the north. The room is laid out 
as a maze for the amusement of visitors (and the con 
fusion of attackers) and the exit to the north is dis 
guised by an illusion to appear as just another mirror. 


Every turn that PCs spend in here, they each must 
make a saving throw versus death magic or suffer the 
same horrifying vision that is caused by the mirrored 
gate (see above). 

If any mirrors are broken, the person doing so will 
be the victim of a cause serious wounds spell. The vic 
tim may attempt to save for half damage. Broken mir 
rors reform in 2-5 rounds. 

The light in this room (continual lights on floor and 
ceiling) is essentially sourceless and casts no shadows, 
making it difficult to maintain orientation while 
moving around. Keeping track of position is further 
complicated by the fact that any objects left on the 
floor to mark positions disappear. Any objects lost in 
this manner are found outside the door to the north. 

The secret door to the north can be found with 
normal chances. However, to pass through it, a char 
acter must either successfully disbelieve the illusion or 
be dragged through by someone else who has. 

Other than the above-mentioned spell effects, 
there are no encounters in this room. 



69 



Room SI: 

The Pause TbaT Refreshes 

In contrast to the hall of mirrors, this room is 
gloomy and dark. As your eyes adjust to the dim 
and misty light radiating from the walls, you see 
a very large room. Your attempts to orient your 
selves to your surroundings are cut short by the 
sight of movement in the far corner. 

This large room was once where visitors to the 
school complex stopped for refreshment after their 
recreation in the hall of mirrors. It is now home to a 
banshee that has been trapped here since murdering 
her fellow adventurers several decades ago for some 
gems that they had been carrying. 

Banshee (1): Int Exc; AL CE; AC 0; MV 15; HD 7; 
hp 52; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; SA Death wail; 
SD +1 or better weapon to hit; MR 50%; SZ M; ML 
13; XP 4,000 each. 

The banshee remains still, moving just enough to 
get their attention, making no threatening move 
ments until the party is within range of her wailing 
attack. She then immediately rises up, hoping to 
incapacitate the party with her fear effect, then uses 
her wailing attack to try to kill as many party mem 
bers as possible. Only characters who save versus both 
of these attacks are attacked physically. 

The banshee craves gemstones, as her history 
shows. If adventurers throw gems around the room, 
there is a 35% chance that she ignores them to gather 
the treasure, giving the group 2-5 rounds to escape. If 
attacked during this time, she naturally defends her 
self. 

If slain, her treasure consists of IdlOO gems of vary 
ing values. She also has a dusty rose prism-shaped 
ioun stone (+1 protection). There is no other treasure, 
as she discards all objects besides the gems she covets. 

Room 5.* AT Your SeRvtfce 

This large rectangular room appears empty except for 
the tatters of decayed cloth scattered along the bot 


tom of the walls all around the room. Any PCs who 
look closely at the walls notice that there is a line of 
holes spaced 6-8 inches apart encircling the whole 
room. This was where visitors left their cloaks and 
weapons upon entering the school complex. The 
holes spaced around the room used to hold pegs on 
which to hang items. These pegs have long since 
decayed. 

If the party remains in the room for more than five 
rounds, a figure appears from the middle of the back 
wall. This translucent figure stops in front of the clos 
est party member, holds out its hand, and waits. It 
does not attack, and physical attacks have no effect 
on it. It can only be sent away by a remove curse or a 
wish. If it is successfully dislodged, it reforms and 
returns 1-3 days later. 

The figure waits until a garment of some kind is 
placed in its hand, whereupon it smiles, carries the 
garment over to the wall, and places it there as if 
hanging it on a peg. It then bows and disappears (as 
the garment falls to the ground). 

If this area is searched, a small brass key is found in 
the pile of decayed cloth. It fits the lock on the box 
found in Room 10 (the men's changing area), which 
contains one amulet of free passage. 

Room A: 

EkjTrv RegteTRaToK) 

This huge rectangular room is hung with pic 
tures of Drow, lined up along all the walls. All of 
the dark elves appear to be wearing the same 
clothing: a plain, unadorned tunic. There is a 
door in the west wall directly opposite your posi 
tion, and there seems to be something written 
on the wall. 

The pictures are of distinguished graduates of the 
school, and they are all wearing the school uniform. 
The words around the door are in Drow and are 75% 
likely to be legible to any character who reads and 
writes Elf. The inscription says "State your business 
and enter," Long ago, visitors would announce who 
they had come to see, and the door would inform 
them of that person's availability and whereabouts. 


70 



The magic has faded over the years, and now all 
someone has to do is speak someone's name within 
ten feet of the door to cause it to open wordlessly. 
Please note that the door is a one-way passage. Once 
the characters have passed through it, it does not 
open from the other side by any means. 

If a name is not spoken, and someone tries to open 
the door anyway, that person is shocked for 1-4 points 
of damage. This damage doubles each time the same 
person tries to open the door without speaking a per 
son's name. After dealing 75 total points of damage to 
a character or group of characters, the mechanism 
burns out and the door opens. 

Room 5: 

STick Aroum6 For A Spell 

There seems to be a strange black mist obscuring 
this area, but through the mist you can see that 
the room is filled with glowing green webs. You 
have no time to ponder the significance of these 
observations, as you are suddenly attacked! 


This room is now home to a pack of wraith-spiders 
(see Monstrous Compendium(r) booklet in this prod 
uct). They have built their webs throughout the area 
and must be dealt with before the room can be 
crossed. Webs can be cut or pushed aside, but notice 
the dangers if they are touched. The 15 wraith-spiders 
in this room attack immediately. 

Wraith-Spiders (15): Int Very; AL LE; AC 5; MV 15 
Web 18; HD 3+2; hp 22 ea.; THACO 17; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-4; SA Drain + Poison; SD Silver or +1 or bet 
ter to hit; MR 15%; SZ M; ML 15; XP 2,000 each. 

The spiders attack in a group and target anyone who 
casts spells first. They are intelligent and ignore any 
one who doesn't seem to be a threat (i.e. no offensive 
spells or magic weapons). One spider initially attacks 
each character; they double team as many as they can 
after that. 

They have not fed in a long time and do not break 
off combat for any reason. If turned, they retreat to 
the ceiling near the south wall. 



71 






There is no treasure in this room. The north door 
leads to a maze of hallways leading deeper into the 
complex. 

Room 6: A GbosX of a Przayerz 

This area was obviously a temple, and there is 
still a massive altar against the center of the 
north wall. Midway between the altar and the 
other three walls, the room is divided on three 
sides by massive floor to ceiling columns. It is lit 
by two huge braziers, which burn with a flicker 
ing purple flame, even though no fuel is visible, 
and appear to give off no heat. In fact, this room 
is noticeably colder than the hallway from 
which you just entered. The room is huge, and 
there appear to be no exits other than the door 
way behind you. 

This temple was for the use of the faculty, students, 
and their families. The main services were of course 
to Lolth, but some measure of worship was given to 
the lesser deities of the dark elves also. The temple is 
now home to the ghost of the High Priestess, which 
appears to conduct services as soon as anyone steps 
between the two pillars flanking the door. 


cent, and an object can be seen within. It is a ceremo 
nial dagger, worth 1,000 gp for the gems and material 
alone; it would be worth an additional 500 gp to a 
sage who is interested in religion or the Drow. How 
ever, any non-evil character touching the altar must 
save versus paralyzation or be the recipient of an elec 
trical shock that causes 4d8 points of damage. A suc 
cessful saving throw still causes 2d8 points of damage. 
This is a magical effect and the wearing of gloves, 
gauntlets, etc. does not help. 

If the altar is searched or touched without destroy 
ing the ghost, she immediately appears and attacks all 
in the room. 

Room 7: SecizeT Door 

This secret door leads to the communal baths and the 
schools. The door was not originally meant to be 
secret. It was just constructed so as not to mar the 
carvings on the corridor walls. Originally, there was a 
sign which could be read in infravision that pointed 
out the door. Over the years, the sign has faded until 
it is no longer visible; however, a detect magic causes 
the area above the door to glow faintly with the resid 
ual magic, doubling the usual chances to find a secret 
door. 


Ghost (1): Int High; AL LE; AC 0 or 8; MV 9; HD 
10; hp 73; THAC0 11; #AT 1; Dmg Age 10-40 yrs; 
SA Sp; SD Sp; MR Nil; SZ M; ML Sp; XP 7,000 
each. 

Characters in the room when the ghost appears 
must make a save versus the aging and fear as per the 
monster description. The ghost does not attack as 
long as any characters in the room are willing to 
kneel respectfully and sit through a service to Lolth. 
She glares at any who do not make the proper 
responses during the service but makes the responses 
herself and continues. After the services are finished, 
she gradually fades away. 

Any who interrupt or try to leave the service while 
it is in progress are attacked. If anyone should attack 
the ghost, she of course defends herself fully. 

If the ghost is defeated, the altar becomes translu 


Commuwal Baths 

Room 8: EsjTrzy To the Baths 

This large room is decorated with carvings of 
young elves playing in pools of steaming water. 

It seems strangely pleasant and quiet here. Two 
stairways exit through the north wall, one to the 
east, and one to the west. On the floor before 
each of the staircases is a strange marking. 

This hall is the entry to a communal bath main 
tained for the faculty and their visitors. Occasionally, 
gifted students were also rewarded with an invitation 
here. The western staircase is for women and the east 
ern is for men. The markings on the floor signify this 
to any character able to read Drow. PCs who try to 
take the wrong stairs find that the stairs become 



insubstantial for them, making it impossible to con 
tinue. The stairs lead to the changing rooms for the 
baths. 

A side effect of the enchantments that set the 
pleasant mood in the communal bathing area is that 
undead creatures can not stand to enter here. They 
might inadvertently pursue someone into here, in 
which case they would attempt to leave immediately 
as if turned, but they would never enter on their own. 
Once the crystal ooze lurking in the baths beyond is 
killed (see below), this whole area is safe to rest in. 

Rooms P & lO: 

Dk&ssIk ig Rooms 

These large square rooms are softly lit, albeit 
from no discernable direction. These two rooms 
are very similar, with comfortable benches along 
the walls and shelves for clothing and posses 
sions. The mirrors in the women's dressing room 
are larger, but all of the mirrors are clouded with 
age. In each room is a large bottle of colored 


glass, with a glass stopper. These bottles used to 
contain pleasant colognes, but anyone opening 
them now finds a dark, foul-smelling sticky mass 
clinging to the bottoms of the bottles, the dried 
residue of stale perfume. 

Any clothing or equipment left on the shelves in 
these rooms is magically cleaned and folded while the 
owners are gone. There is another door in each north 
wall, and shelves next to these doors contain soft 
robes and sashes to close them with. The robes magi 
cally alter to fit anyone who dons them, and remain 
dry even if worn while bathing. 

If any characters try to leave to the north while 
carrying weapons, their weapons teleport to the 
shelves as the person steps through the door, and are 
cleaned and sharpened upon their return. The magic 
in these rooms only functions for living beings and so 
has not been unduly strained over the centuries. Still, 
it is an impressive feat of magical engineering, the 
more so in that it still works. 

The rooms' magic does not prevent anyone from 



73 




departing to the south with their gear. 

In Room 10, the men's area, there is a small locked 
metal box on the counter. It contains an amulet of free 
passage. The key is under a pile of decayed cloth in 
Room 3. 

Room 11: A PLeasawT Refuge 

This area is immense and looks like a park. The 
lighting is warm and subdued, like a spring 
evening. The ground is covered with a green 
mossy growth that seems soft enough to fall 
asleep on, and there is even a fountain with a 
statue of a centaur. The pillars supporting the 
roof have been carved into the shapes of nymphs 
and dryads, and the entire area looks completely 
inviting. 

This area was intended for relaxing before and after 
bathing. In the days when this area was inhabited, 
there would have been servants passing around trays 
with drinks and refreshments on them. There would 
have been music and dancing in the central area and 
exhibits of artistic works. For now, however, it must 
suffice that the air is fresh and warm, and the moss on 
the ground is as comfortable as any bed that the char 
acters entering here have ever slept in. But there is 
trouble even in paradise: if a party rests here before 
entering the bath area, the crystal ooze from the pool 
gradually crawls out here to investigate. 

This area is so conducive to rest, that if the party 
rests here any victims of the illusion in the gate have 
no nightmares while asleep here, and if the victims 
sleep here nightly until the time for the dreams has 
expired, they lose no Wisdom. 

Room 12: The Baths 

You can see very little in this room but clouds of 
fog, far denser than the mist which seems to per 
meate every inch of these corridors. The room is 
pleasantly warm and steamy, and you can smell 
water. Judging by the echoes of your footsteps, 
the room is quite large. 


The steam in this room is thick and comforting, but 
visibility at close range is adequate, and the party suf 
fers no penalties in combat from the fog. The air is 
pleasantly warm, and the floor is textured to provide 
sure footing even when wet. 

There are two pools in the middle of the room. 
The large pool on the right is filled with hot water 
that is magically kept to the proper temperature for a 
good long soak. The left pool is filled with icy water, 
just right for a refreshing plunge. The steam is caused 
by the proximity of the two pools, and is meant to 
add to the ambiance of the baths. 

There are benches around the pools for lounging, 
and the floor is covered with tiles depicting fish and 
other aquatic creatures. The mood is pleasant and 
relaxing. However, one thing that the designers of 
this area didn't place here for ambiance is the crystal 
ooze living in the cold water pool. The creature has 
subsisted here by eating the moss outside and occa 
sionally scouring the walls here for the mold and 
mildew that grows in this wet environment, but it is 
very hungry. 

Crystal Ooze (1): Int Animal; AL N; AC 8; MV 1, 
Sw 3; HD 4; hp 32; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 4-16; 
SA Poison; SD Sp; MR Nil; SZ M; ML 10; XP 420. 

Because of the steam, the chance for the creature 
to remain undetected in this pool is 95% instead of 
75%. It can only be detected if someone specifically 
states that they are looking into the pool, and then 
they are within range of its attack. It strikes quickly 
and attempts to paralyze a victim and drag him or her 
to the bottom where it can devour the unfortunate 
soul in a leisurely manner. Except to defend itself, it 
does not attack anyone else until it has devoured the 
previous victim. The creature does not leave the pool 
unless there is no one within striking range for a turn, 
whereupon its hunger drives it to seek its prey. It is 
extremely hungry, and only retreats to the bottom if 
brought to fewer than 10 hit points. 

The pools are 5' deep at the sides and gradually 
slope to 8' deep in the middle. The warm pool con 
tains mineral salts that promote healing. If anyone 
soaks in the warm pool for a turn or more and then 


74 



sleeps out in the lounge area, they are healed of 4-16 
points of damage during the night. This benefit can 
only be gained once per week for any particular char 
acter. 

Clerical TrzAifoiNg 
Ane&s 

Room 13: This Way b* 

This door leads to the training areas proper. Like the 
door in Area 7, this door was not intended to be a 
secret door, but it is nevertheless well-hidden by the 
carvings along the walls, and a character must actively 
search for it to find it. There is no residual magic at 
this door. 

Room 14: 

SbadouoY Diboibog ball 

This 60' x 140' room is lined with long stone 
tables and attached benches. The center of the 
north wall contains a shallow alcove that is 
about 4' above the floor, and 20' wide by 3' high 
and 3' deep. 

The alcove is for the dishes of the students when they 
are done eating. Servants would remove the dishes 
from here after mealtimes and take them to the 
kitchen to be cleaned. The apparent emptiness of the 
room is misleading, however; this room is the lair of a 
pack of shadows. 

Shadow (17): Int Low; AL CE; AC 7; MV 12; HD 
3+3; hp 25 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2-5 + spe 
cial; SA Strength drain; SD +1 or better weapon to 
hit; MR Sp; SZ M; ML Sp; XP 650 each. 


If the shadows are defeated, searching the alcove 
yields 3 gems worth 500gp each, an amulet of free pas 
sage, and a dagger that glows with the brilliance of a 
continual light whenever a desire for light is expressed 
in its presence - every time. The dagger is dark when 
found, and again becomes dark if ordered to. 

Room 15: Food For The Soul 

This large room was obviously a kitchen, the 
place where meals were prepared for the clerics 
and their students. There are two large cooking 
hearths, one each on the north and south wall. 
There are two doors out of this room, one to the 
west and one to the north. 

Anyone searching the hearths notices something 
strange: the fireplaces have no chimneys! The flames 
that burned here were magical, giving off heat but no 
smoke. The fireplaces were only built to contain the 
flames and provide somewhere to place pots and ket 
tles for cooking. 

There are some knives left on the floor in the 
southwest comer; unhappily, they are cursed. Anyone 
taking them out of the kitchen begins to experience 
an itching in the center of her back, and a rash 
appears in one or two hours. The only way to get rid 
of the itching is to cast a remove curse spell on the 
knives, or to bring the knives back to this room and 
spend an hour cleaning the kitchen. (The old cook 
was forever having her knives stolen by the students, 
and asked one of the instructors with whom she was 
friendly to cast the spell on them, which she hoped 
would teach the erring students a lesson.) The knives 
radiate magic, but they are only ensorcelled to remain 
sharp and rust-free. They confer no pluses in combat. 
The enchantments on them make the knives worth 
perhaps 25 gp each. There are 3 knives in the corner. 


Room 16: Cold StoRage 


The shadows attack the party from all sides, with 
+1 to surprise. (If the party is surprised, the shadows 
can attack before any clerical turning can be at 
tempted.) They attack until destroyed. They have 
learned that they reform here if killed and they have 
no fear of the party. 


This dimly lit room is lined with shelves, and is 
strangely cold. The shelves seem to be laden 
with many small, unidentifiable masses. You can 
not tell from here if any of them are moving. 



75 




This area used to be a cold storage pantry. The 
masses on the shelves are merely the remains of the 
items stored here long ago. The cold here is from a 
small mass of brown mold in a sealed metal container 
under one of the shelves to the north. It can be easily 
found if searched for. The brown mold is completely 
contained within the box, and can do no harm as 
long as the box is not broken open. Of course, if the 
container should ever get wet and start to rust, there 
will be a rusted opening large enough to allow the 
mold or its spores to escape within three days unless 
precautions are taken to prevent the box from rusting 
further. 

Room 17: Deadly D)spos&L 

This room is dark and quiet and the air in here is 
damp and somewhat fetid. You can just see the 
outline of a deep pit in the center of the floor, 
which appears to be empty. 

This room was used by the kitchen staff to dispose 
of garbage from food preparation and meals. The pit 
contains green slime. When the green slime in the 
pit became too large fire was judiciously applied to 
burn it back to a manageable level. The pit only 
looks empty because the slime has not been fed in a 
long time and the top layer has dried and turned 
black. 

The green slime cannot reach to the top of the pit. 
However, if someone is lowered into the pit to search 
for secret compartments or treasure, she or he imme 
diately breaks through the crust on the top of the 
slime and is immersed in three feet of the awful stuff. 
Unless lifted out of the pit and helped immediately, 
the victim is turned to green slime within 1-4 rounds 
and lost forever. 


Rooms 18 El 19: 

STudeK)Ts QuarzTerzs 

These rooms are virtually empty. Four piles of rotted 
wood and cloth scattered in each room may have 
once been beds, but that appears to be all. These are 
just what they seem, small dorm rooms for clerical 
students. If the rotten beds in Room 18 are searched, 
a potion of healing can be found in the third one. In 
Room 19, the first bed contains an amulet of free pas 
sage, and the fourth bed yields a nest of rot grubs. 

Rot Grubs (16): Int Non; AL Nil; AC 9; MV 1; HD 
1 hp; THACO Nil; #AT 0; Dmg Nil; SA Sp; SD Nil; 
MR Nil; SZ T; ML 5; XP 15 each. 

The rot grubs burrow into the first person who 
touches the debris of the fourth bed. If treatment is 
not effected in time, the victim dies in 1-3 turns. 

Room 20: BeTCeiz QuAizTeizs 

This room is similar to the others, except that it 
appears that someone or something has been 
cleaning up in here. The furnishings are still 
decayed, but the rotting piles have been neatly 
arranged. It appears as though someone or some 
thing has been doing some housekeeping in 
here. Your puzzlement is quite suddenly cut short 
as you are attacked! 

The spectre who resides in this room has been 
arranging and rearranging the objects in here to pass 
the time. Unless the characters specifically state that 
they are taking precautions against being surprised, 
the spectre attacks with surprise, getting 1 round of 
attacks before party actions. 


Green Slime (1): Int Non; AL N; AC 9; MV 0; HD Spectre (1): Int High; AL LE; AC 2; MV 15, FL 
2; hp 15; THACO 19; #AT 0; Dmg Nil; SA Sp; SD 30(B); HD 7+3; hp 55; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; 
Sp; MR Nil; SZ S; ML 10; XP 65. SA Energy drain; SD +1 or better weapon to hit; MR 

Special; SZ M; ML 15; XP 3,000. 

Other than some silverware which was dropped 

into the pit over the years (worth maybe 5 gold pieces The spectre first attacks anyone in the party who 
is 
in all), there is nothing of value in the pit. obviously a cleric. It knows that each successful attack 


76 



lessens the cleric's chance to turn it and spoil its fun. 

Except for some rotten furniture (of which it has 
grown rather fond over the years), the spectre has no 
treasure. 

Room HI: 

STowe UghX STowe BnighT 

This room appears to be like the others, misty and 
filled with crumbling furniture, but it seems much 
brighter. You can easily see the room and its rot 
ting furnishings - as well as a small glint, as from 
something bright, under some of the rotten wood. 

The light is coming from a continual light stone left 
there by some unfortunate adventurers long ago. 
There is also a potion bottle containing a liquid iden 
tical in appearance and smell to the potion of healing 
found in room 18. However, this potion has spoiled, 
and makes anyone who drinks it ill. The imbiber suf 
fers a -1 penalty to all physical endeavors for one day 
unless a neutralize poison is cast. 


Room 22: A Calrrtfwg Iwfluewce 

This huge room is full of corroded metal bed- 
frames, and there is a decaying cabinet in the 
northeast comer. A strange-looking glyph deco 
rates the floor just inside the doorway. 

The glyph in the doorway does not harm the party. 
It is a symbol intended to keep unhealthy influence 
from the room. If characters rest here, none of the 
wandering undead found in this area are able to 
enter the room unless invited. (Of course, they 
might still congregate around the door and beg for 
invitations.) 

Here the clerical students took care of any who 
were injured or ill. The PCs experience a feeling of 
calm if they come into the room. This sense comes 
from spells cast in here long ago to help the patients 
rest. In fact, if the PCs rest here, they heal twice as 
fast as normal, as if they were under the care of some 
one with the nonweapon proficiency Healing. 

If the cabinet in the northeast corner is checked. 



77 










the party finds healing salves and supplies. Most are 
too old to be of much use, but one jar is of interest: a 
jar of salve to neutralize spider venom. If this salve is 
rubbed into a spider bite, it completely neutralizes 
the venom, and 1-4 hit points of damage caused by 
the poison are regained. It is even effective on the 
venom of the wraith-spiders. There is enough salve 
in the jar for 5 uses. If at least one use is left in the 
container, an alchemist might be able to duplicate 
the formula (35% chance. Of course, the ingredients 
might be difficult or dangerous to locate at the DM's 
discretion.). 

Room -25: 

La)r of the Gotd&o Spldcrz 

This was the room of one of the junior instruc 
tors. It contains some decomposed furnishings 
and a pile of material in the corner that may 
have been books at one time. The light in here 
is very dim. There are no exits other than the 
door. 


The pile of rotten paper and leather in the corner 
was once the texts and lesson plans for the instructor's 
classes. It is sufficiently decayed that the party is not 
able to recover any information from the remains. If 
the PCs search the decomposed bed in the northeast 
comer, they find a gold spider medallion with eyes of 
two ruby chips. This is a holy symbol for Lolth, and if 
melted down could be worth 120gp. The medallion 
could be sold to a collector for as much as 500 gp, but 
any cleric of good alignment should have objections 
to selling off an intact holy symbol from an evil reli 
gion. There is nothing else of value in this room. 

Room 24: Act HasTe, 

RepewT aT Le'isuize 

This room contains what appears to be a de 
cayed bedframe and some decomposed books. A 
strange design on the east wall appears to have 
been drawn in some type of thick paint, but you 
cannot make it out from here. 

This was also the room of a junior instructor of 
clerics. However, she engaged in some private 
research in here after hours. The design on the east 
wall radiates faintly if anyone in the party detects for 
magic. It is a new glyph of warding that she was work 
ing on in her spare time, designed to paralyze victims 
for 2 rounds per level of the casting cleric. Over time, 
its power has faded; the first person who touches it is 
slowed for 12 rounds (save for half duration). 

The glyph could be copied, but its name is not 
known. 

If the room is searched, the party finds an amulet of 
free passage inside a wooden box under the remains of 
the bed. 

Room 25: Easy Housekeeptog 

This room looks to be in a remarkable state of 
preservation. It contains a perfectly made bed 
and some clerical robes hung neatly on hooks in 
the southeast corner. This is the only room you 
have seen so far that truly looks recently lived 


in. 










This room is actually in the same condition as the 
others; in fact, it may be a little worse. However, the 
instructor who lived here hated to clean up her room, 
and she hated even worse for anyone else to come in 
and do it for her. Therefore, she bribed one of the 
instructors from the mage school to cast a permanent 
phantasmal force in the doorway so that it would look 
like her room was neat and tidy from the hallway. 

Her superiors knew about the spell but they were 
not concerned as long as the room appeared neat for 
visitors. There is nothing of value in this room and if 
the party passes through the doorway, the illusion 
becomes obvious. 


bed. If examined, they are found to allow true seeing 
for any cleric who wears them. The glasses can only 
be worn for 1-4 turns a day, or blinding headaches 
result for the next 2 hours. 

Room 27: 

HeadmfeTRess's Pdnloiz 

This room appears to have been a sitting room 
of some kind. There are the remains of a sofa 
and two chairs near the north wall. A decayed 
table is in the northeast corner with a crystal 
decanter lying amongst the bits and pieces. 


Room 26: 

Me Awd My Sbadouu Lunkeiz 

This room is larger than the others but similarly 
appointed. What remains of the furniture seems 
of better quality, but is still badly decayed. The 
room is uniformly dark. 

This room was inhabited by the senior instructor 
of the clerical college. The only thing of note in this 
room is the shadow lurker that inhabits the area just 
inside the door. If the characters state specifically 
that they are looking at the floor, they may notice 
on a successful Intelligence check that they are not 
casting any shadows. This is because the shadow 
lurker is absorbing all light that strikes it. It waits 
until the majority of the party is in the room before 
striking. The shadow lurker is fully described in the 
Monstrous Compendium(r) booklet contained in 
this product, but a brief synopsis is given below. 

Shadow Lurker (1): Int Low; AL CE; AC 4; MV 3; 
HD 5+3; hp 40; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; SA 
Str drain; SD +1 or better to hit; MR Nil; SZ L; ML 
15; XP 1,400. 

If the shadow lurker is killed, it dissipates into a 
foul-smelling black mist, which vanishes after 1 
round. Breathing this mist causes no harm, but it is 
unpleasant. 

There are some reading glasses in the debris of the 


This was where the headmistress of the college 
received visitors. The decanter in the corner is magi 
cal. Any liquid placed in it stays fresh and at the per 
fect serving temperature. The decanter also turns 
blood red when any poisonous liquid is placed in it. If 
filled, it serves guests of its own volition, having been 
endowed with a limited form of unseen servant. Sold 
to the proper customer it could fetch as much as 
1,500 gp, if the seller has discovered all of its abilities. 
If sold as merely a fine crystal decanter, its worth is 
perhaps 100 gold pieces. Although formed of heavy 
crystal, the decanter is somewhat fragile, and care 
must be taken while transporting it. 

Room 28: CbeRcbez La Femme 

This chamber was at one time lushly decorated. 
Glowing orbs of various colors float near the 
ceiling, illuminating the metal frame of what 
was once a huge bed. There is a large hearth 
against the south wall and a huge moth-eaten fur 
rug in front of it. There is a door in the north 
end of the west wall. The air in this chamber is 
scented with a strangely pleasant, musky odor. 

The headmistress used this room as much for enter 
taining as for sleeping. She had several spells cast in 
this room over the years to enhance her pleasure. The 
pastel lights and the perfumed air are the only 
enchantments remaining, but the headmistress also 
lingers on as a ghost, haunting her former home. 



Ghost (1): Int High; AL LE; AC 0 or 8; MV 9; HD 
10; hp 64; THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg Age 10-40 Years; 
SA Sp; SD Sp; MR Nil; SZ M; ML Sp; XP 7,000. 

The ghost of the headmistress is first seen 1-3 rounds 
after at least two male characters enter the room. She 
appears as a young female Drow lying asleep on the 
bed. She rises as if aroused from a sound sleep and 
smiles invitingly at the male characters. If any 
approaches, she suddenly transforms into a hideously 
decomposed corpse and attacks. When she trans 
forms, everyone in the room must make a save versus 
her aging and fear effects; thereafter combat is nor 
mal. She attacks male victims in preference to all 
others, hoping that if she slays one he will be impris 
oned here with her. If she is destroyed, a mace +4 is 
found in the remains of her bed. 

Room 29: A LiTTLe Knouvledge 
Is A Dangetious Thing 

This room is well lit, and filled with books in 
what appear to be a perfect state of preservation. 
The tomes are bound in expensive leather and 
written in an unfamiliar language. 

The books, which are written in Drow, are all trea 
tises on the worship of Lolth in all its forms. There 
are over 100 volumes in this room averaging 3-4 
pounds apiece; if the group has a means of retrieving 
them all, they could be a valuable treasure. The sale 
of these books to the proper buyer could net in excess 
of 2,000 gold pieces for the lot. 

Anyone spending the time to study these books 
gains a nonweapon proficiency in Religion for the 
worship of Lolth. The reader would also have a 25% 
chance to develop a morbid fear of spiders. 

The danger in reading these tomes is the toxic ink 
in which they are written. Readers who do not wear 
gloves while handling the pages lose 1 point of Con 
stitution for every week of time spent perusing them. 
Death occurs when Constitution reaches 0. A restora 
tion spell restores 2-8 points of Constitution. 


The WdRKion 
Academy 

Room 30: EnTrzy HalL 

This room is filled with decaying trophies. The 
walls are covered with rusted and unusable 
weapons and the moldering heads of all manner 
of beasts. It appears as if someone had spent a 
lifetime in the pursuit of killing. 

This is where visitors to the warrior school were 
greeted. The weapons and other trophies on the walls 
were souvenirs of past victories by instructors and 
graduates of the academy. None of the items on the 
walls are any longer of any possible use. 

Note that the corridor leading to the Entry Hall 
contains a secret door leading to Area 47. 

Room 31: 

NighT of the Living Gladiatorzs 

The floor of this huge room is covered with a 
layer of fine sand. Perhaps warriors trained here 
long ago; it appears to have been a practice 
arena at one time. The light in here is especially 
intense, and the temperature is noticeably 
warmer than in the other rooms. There is a door 
to the south directly across from where you 
entered. 

This is the training arena for the warrior academy. 
It is also where combat took place to settle disputes 
between the students or instructors of the school. 
Slaves and criminals were often used here to train the 
young Drow warriors. 

The arena now houses a band of ju-ju zombies and 
some monster zombies, who rush in from the south 
door as soon as all of the characters are in the arena. 

Zombie, Ju-ju (6): Int Low; AL NE; AC 4 (see 
below); MV 9; HD 3+12; hp 35 each; THACO 15; 
#AT 1; Dmg 3-12; SA Sp; SD Sp; MR Sp; SZ M; ML 
Sp; XP 975 each. 



Zombie, Monster (3): Int Non; AL N; AC 6; MV 9; 
HD 6; hp 32 each; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 4-16; 
SA Nil; SD Sp; MR Sp; SZ L; ML Sp; XP 650 each. 

The ju-ju zombies are dressed as if for arena combat 
(thus the slightly better than normal Armor Class). The 
monsters all attack immediately and fight until slain. If 
given the opportunity, the ju-ju zombies attack any rec 
ognizable mages in preference to any other opponents. 
If the bodies are searched, one of the monster zombies 
has a dagger +2 embedded in its back. Another, a ju-ju 
zombie, is wearing an amidet of free passage. 

Room 

Instructor's QuarTcrs 

This room is also decorated with a few decaying 
trophies. There are also many weapons on the 
walls, which are, disappointingly, unusable- 
except for the sword hanging on the west wall, 
over the remains of the bed. That one appears 
intact. 


This is a special sword of dancing. It is of low Intel 
ligence and Neutral alignment. It cannot communi 
cate, but will not accept anyone as master who it 
believes to be unworthy. When any person ap 
proaches to examine it, the sword detaches itself 
from the wall, salute the first person to approach, and 
float into what appears to be an "en garde" position. 
It fights the person it challenged, only to subdue. 
Treat the sword as AC 0 with 57 hit points. If the 
sword is successfully hit, keep track of damage nor 
mally. When it reaches 0 hit points, the sword falls 
to the floor undamaged and allows only the person 
who defeated it to pick it up. 

As well as acting as a normal sword of dancing, it 
guards its master's sleep, and if its master is attacked it 
rises up and fights the attacker for 3 rounds, giving its 
master time to awaken. If the person who owns it 
ever shows cowardice in battle, it turns on him or her 
the next time it is released to dance. It attacks (to 
kill, not to subdue) until its soon-to-be-ex-master is 
slain, or until the sword takes 25 hit points of magical 
damage. If its former master is slain, it falls to the 









ground and waits for a new master to come along, 
challenging any who examine it for the right of own 
ership as before. If the sword loses the battle to the 
death with its former master, it loses all enchant 
ments, becoming a normal long sword. 

Room 33: 

Cast Your CaRes Acuay 

This room is nearly empty. Even the scraps of 
decayed furnishings that have decorated the 
other rooms of this complex are missing. It looks 
as if someone or something has swept this area 
clean, although it is obvious that the room has 
not been aired out for years. There is a strangely 
familiar, unpleasant odor. 

This room was also an instructor's quarters. It has 
been emptied by the zombies encountered in the 
arena, which have been using this room as a waiting 
area while watching the arena for someone or some 
thing to attack. Hence the smell: the odor of rotting 
flesh. 

The room is not completely without interest how 
ever. The former occupant was peculiarly suspicious 
of spellcasters. He contracted to have his room 
trapped in case a spellcaster of some type came snoop 
ing around to steal from him or to attack him in his 
sleep. The trap was never set off and is still active. If a 
spellcaster of any type (including classes such as 
rangers or paladins of sufficient level to have spells) 
crosses the threshold, he or she is subject to a feeble- 
mind spell. (All appropriate saving throws apply.) The 
trap only works against the first spellcaster to enter 
the room; after that the room is safe for anyone to 
enter. 

Room 54* 

Keep Your Cizossbouo Hdsjdy 

In this room, the linens seem to have fared bet 
ter than the furniture. The bedframe appears to 
have completely rotted away but some remnants 
of the sheets and a lump that may be the 
remains of a pillow still survive. 


The instructor who lived in this room had rather 
expensive taste in bed clothes. The sheets and pillow 
case were of an exceptionally rare and durable silk 
that lasted a bit longer than some of the other materi 
als used. He also had a finely honed sense of caution, 
considering the company he lived in: he kept a 
loaded hand crossbow under his pillow. The string has 
long since rotted away, but the crossbow itself is still 
intact. It can be fitted with a new string at any good 
bowyer's shop and is perfectly serviceable. 

Room 35: Rat Race 

This room looks like familiar, except that there 
is a formidable pile of bones in the middle of the 
floor. The bones themselves seem fairly small; 
they are obviously too fine to be from a person, 
even from a half ling, but there are so many! The 
pile is 3 or 4 feet across and at least 4 feet high 
in the middle. 

This pile of bones is all that remains of a pack of 
giant rats. They are now animated as animal skele 
tons and rise up to attack as soon as anyone enters the 
room. 

Skeleton, Animal (20): Int Non; AL N; AC 8; MV 
6; HD 1-1; hp 6 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4; 
SA Nil; SD Sp; MR Sp; SZ S; ML Sp; XP 65 each. 

The skeletons swarm over the first people to enter 
the room. No more than six can attack any one per 
son, so the first three characters in the room bear the 
brunt of the assault. The skeletons attack until 
destroyed or turned. 

Under the pile of bones is a set of pipes of the sewers. 
This can be discovered by anyone willing to sift 
through the bones after the skeletons are dealt with. 
The proper tune must be known to use these to their 
full potential, and discovering the tune to use (and 
learning to play the pipes if no characters are profi 
cient). could well take some time. Note that pipes of 
the sewers have no effect on undead rats. 






82 



Room 5(5.* Done o PdnTy 

This spacious room is full of the remains of beds. 

It looks like a dormitory or barracks room. The 
lighting in here is subdued, and your footsteps 
echo strangely in the empty room. There are 
three doors along the west wall, all leading back 
out into the hallway. The east wall is lined with 
numbered pegs, above which are some words in 
the Drow tongue. 

This room functioned as student quarters. The pegs 
were numbered to correspond to the beds across from 
them. The young warriors were not allowed to have 
much in the way of belongings in the school, and 
everything they had would hang from a couple of pegs 
on the wall. 

If the characters successfully attempt to read the 
phrases written on the wall, they discover that they 
are motivational slogans for the competitive young 
warrior students: 

"Winning isn't everything, but losing is death." 
"Winners never quit, quitters end up on the altar." 
"Show me a good loser and I'll show you a sacrifice." 
"One for all and all for Lolth." 

This former dormitory for the young warriors has 
unfortunately become the home to another group. A 
pack of shadows has taken up residence where the 
trainees once lived. 

Shadow (15): Int Low; AL CE; AC 7; MV 12; HD 
3+3; hp 22 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2-5 + spe 
cial; SA Strength drain; SD +1 or better weapon to 
hit; MR Sp; SZ M; ML Sp; XP 650 each. 

The shadows are hidden along the west wall until 
the party is completely in the room. They spread out 
and attack to keep any characters from reaching the 
doors out. After the shadows are defeated, the beds 
can be searched to reveal 17 gold pieces and 15 silver 
pieces. 


Room 57* 

The Halt of Heroes 

This large room is filled with rows of stone tables 
and benches running down both sides. There is a 
door exiting from the south wall. The lighting 
here, although still rather dim, is better than in 
the rest of the complex. Strangely, the room 
does not feel empty. If you are quiet, you can 
almost hear the murmuring of many voices in 
the misty gloom. 

The room is completely empty. The murmuring is 
an acoustical effect caused by the decorative carv 
ings on the walls. The effect was meant to make the 
new students feel as if they were part of a multitude, 
even when there were few people in the room. 
When the new students felt lonely or isolated, they 
would come here to sit. They could close their eyes 
and feel as if they were surrounded by their fellow 
warriors. 

The sound can have a rather hypnotic effect. If a 
character spends more than 5 rounds in this hall and 
remains perfectly still, she or he begins to drift, and 
when roused has vague memories of dreams in which 
great warriors told them the secrets of certain victory 
in battle. This is just a side effect of the sounds and 
has no lasting effect. The original intent of this was to 
make the new warriors feel that they were part of an 
eternal tradition. 

Room 58* The KffcheN 

This large room was obviously designed to pre 
pare food for a mob of growing boys. There are 
two immense cooking hearths in this room, with 
kettles on them that would each hold enough 
food to feed a small army. The most notable 
thing about this kitchen, however, is the group 
of people working at the hearths and tables. If 
they weren't partially transparent, you would 
almost think they were alive-but they are, of 
course, merely not dead. 






83 



The kitchen is home to four spectres. They are 
going through the motions of preparing food just like 
they do every day, but they are happy to take a break 
in their routine to deal with unwanted visitors. 

Spectre (4): Int High; AL LE; AC 2; MV 15, FL 
30(B); HD 7+3; hp 52 each; THACO 13; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-8; SA Energy drain; SD +1 or better weapon 
to hit; MR Sp; SZ M; ML 15; XP 3,000 each. 

The spectres attack the characters randomly, since 
they exist only to slay the living. Any character slain 
by the spectres here becomes a spectre and remain in 
the kitchen, under the control of his or her murderer 
if it is still "alive." If the spectres are slain, the charac 
ters can recover the treasure the creatures have col 
lected. The spectres have amassed quite a selection of 
weapons and armor, including a scimitar of speed as 
well as several more ordinary weapons, and a ring of 
the rat (see "New Magical Items" in this product). 

There are two other exits from this room, both in 
the south wall. 

Room 39: The PamTry 

This room appears to have been used to store 
food and supplies for the kitchen, and the 
crusted remains of the supplies and old cloths are 
still clearly visible. Aside from the fact that it is 
strangely cool in here, it seems of little interest. 

This was indeed the pantry. It is kept cold by the 
same mechanism as area 16, a small amount of brown 
mold kept sealed in an airtight metal box. This can 
be easily found if anyone looks under the shelves on 
the back wall. 

Unfortunately for the party, there is something else 
of interest in here: the pile of cloth in the corner is 
actually a cloaker. 

Cloaker (1): Int High; AL CN; AC 3 (1); MV 1, FI 
15 (D); HD 6; THACO 15; #AT 2 + special; Dmg 
1-6/1-6/+ special; SA Sp; SD Sp; MR Nil; SZ L; ML 
13; XP 1,400. 


Underneath a broken jar of what used to be pre 
serves is an amulet of free passage. 

Room 4-0: Garbage Disposal 

This room looks somehow familiar. It is dark and 
damp, about 20' square, and has a deep pit in the 
center. Remembering the surprise awaiting you 
at the bottom of the last well like this, you 
decide to be more careful with this one. 

This room is identical to Area 17. The only differ 
ence is that the green slime at the bottom of the well 
has died. The danger is that spores of green slime are 
still present in the well. They are dormant, but still 
viable. PCs who climb down to investigate the bot 
tom pick up spores from the slime on their skin and 
clothes. The spores on their skin wash off the next 
time they bathe, but if they get their clothing damp 
and leave it somewhere for a day or so, they could 
have quite a surprise waiting for them when they get 
back. The spores can also begin to sprout if the indi 
vidual is perspiring heavily (i.e. a full day's work in 
the hot sun). This would cause an irritation of the 
skin. If not washed off, by the second day the green 
slime would be evidenced by a greenish tint to the 
skin. At this point, if the green slime is not eradicated 
by a cure disease spell the victim is converted to green 
slime and dies in 24 hours. 

Room 4-1: Supply Room 

A counter runs down the center of this room. 
The area is well lighted and the counter has 
small holes, almost like inkwells, at intervals 
along it. 

This is where weapons and armor were stored when 
not needed and recovered when necessary. The doors 
to the east, north and south lead to various store 
rooms. Since students were only allowed to have 
weapons and armor when they were training with it 
(it seems all schoolchildren are rowdy, no matter 
what the race), clerks stayed in this room and 
checked supplies in and out as required. They also 


84 



made a note of any equipment that was in need of 
repair, and made sure that it was taken care of. The 
depressions in the counter are indeed designed to 
hold bottles of ink. A search of the area behind the 
counter reveals a rotting and only partially legible 
ledger book, written in a fine spidery hand, which 
records deposits and withdrawals of weapons and 
armor, noting the condition in which they were 
received or given. 

Room 42: Take a CLosori Look 

This room is filled with the debris of what appar 
ently used to be racks of weapons. At first glance 
it seems obvious that any weapons that remain- 
have long ago deteriorated into uselessness. 

The odds and ends left in this room are mostly use 
less. However, if the room is thoroughly searched (for 
two or more turns), the following items can be found: 
one long sword, which needs to have the leather 
wrapping around the hilt replaced; the blade from a 
battle axe +2, which can be repaired by having it set 
on a new haft; and a special dagger +2 which appears 
in its owner's hand when desired without needing to 
be drawn (+2 to initiative for the first round of com 
bat only). The dagger can thus be kept completely 
concealed without worrying about its availability for 
combat. 

There is a door that exits the room to the north. 

Room 43: Aizmoiz Storage 

This room has falling racks containing pieces of 
nearly every sort of armor, from rotting leather 
to corroded pieces of plate. There is even a heap 
of debris to the north that looks as if it were 
once a rack of shields. The remnants of armor 
may have once been neat and orderly. Now they 
are scattered as if a great wind had struck this 
area. 

As above, the equipment in this area has been ren 
dered mostly useless by the ravages of time and the 
battle fought here long ago between an adventuring 


party and a trapped air elemental. Nothing remains of 
that great battle but the debris and, of course, the 
skeletal remains of five humanoids flung to the far 
edges of the room. These remains are too long dead to 
be of any value to the party. However, if the time is 
taken to do a thorough search of this room (at least 
three turns), the following items can be found which 
are still usable: enough pieces to fashion a suit of field 
plate (sized to fit an adult male elf), a small wooden 
box containing a carefully wrapped potion of gaseous 
form, and a spiked buckler +2. The suit of armor can be 
worn as is, but is only Armor Class 3 until fitted by an 
expert armorer. This can be done at a cost of from 
150 to 200 gp, and takes 1-3 weeks to customize, with 
fittings every 1-3 days. 

Room 44: IT's Heee-ee-eRel 

The contents of this room are even more de 
crepit and deteriorated than what you have 
already seen. This room is full of rotted racks 
holding the decayed remnants of missile weap 
ons. Obviously the components of bows and 
slings are more perishable than those of swords 
and armor. As you stand surveying the residue, 
an old rusted dagger flies by, narrowly missing 
your companions. 

This room is where missile weapons were stored for 
the use of the students and staff of the academy. It has 
also become the home of a poltergeist. 

Poltergeist (1): Int Low; AL LE; AC 10; MV 6; HD 
Vr, hp 3; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg Nil; SA Fear; SD 
Invisible, silver or +1 or better weapons to hit; MR 
Nil; SZ M; ML 10; XP 120 each. 

The poltergeist throws things at the characters, 
attempting to force them all to flee the area. It hopes 
to cause the characters to drop their weapons, and 
leave the party scattered and unarmed, at the mercy 
of wandering monsters in the area. If slain, the polter 
geist will have reformed if the characters pass this way 
again. Consider the poltergeist to be a bonded spirit 
for the purposes of turning. 


85 


The items in this area are generally in even worse 
shape than in the other storage facilities but if the 
party takes the time to search for 2 turns they can dis 
cover 5 crossbow bolts +3 and a set of three daggers of 
throwing +1. These items are perfectly functional, 
although the daggers could use some cleaning. 

Room 4S: 

HeaT WffbouT line 

This area is recognizable as a weaponsmith shop 
to anyone who has ever seen one. From the 
forges along the east wall to the hammers and 
tongs racked next to them everything looks to 
be in its place. There are doors leading here from 
the north south and west. 

This is a complete smithy. There is everything here 
that a character with the Blacksmithing, Weapon- 
smithing, or Armorer nonweapon proficiencies needs 
to ply his trade. 

The forges may give a character pause for a bit as 
they look like regular forges but have no bellows or 
chimneys. They also seem to be filled with stones 
instead of coal or charcoal. These forges are en 
chanted to heat any metal item placed in them. The 
item merely needs to be placed in among the stones 
for it to become hot. The longer the item is left in the 
forge stones, the more it is heated. If an item is 
allowed to remain in the forge long enough, it melts 
down and is destroyed. A metal worker used to a nor 
mal forge must pay constant attention to his work to 
prevent this from happening. The unlimited heating 
capacity of these forges means that very pure metals 
could be produced. This allows the production of 
exceptional quality weapons and armor at a +2 to the 
normal chance. Unfortunately, the secret of the magi 
cal process is in the forges, not in the stones. The 
forges are not portable and cannot be moved without 
destroying them. 

With the ease of heating items, repairs can be per 
formed in one half the usual time. 


Room 46: The Missile Raioge 

This immense room is laid out in lanes for cross 
bow and hurled weapon practice. There are tar 
gets at the far north wall, and the east and west 
walls are marked with distances along their 
entire lengths. The targets are attached to the 
ceiling and could be adjusted with pulleys from 
the south, if the ropes that went around the pul 
leys were not rotted away. The targets could be 
set up at suitable ranges for any type of practice, 
from thrown daggers to long bow. 

There are doors leading out of this room to 
the south and west. 

Both doors open into the south end as a precaution 
against bystanders being hit with stray shots. 

There is little of interest in this room, but if it is 
searched, a pair of quarrels +2 can be found behind a 
target at the north end of the room. Behind another 
of the targets is an amulet of free passage. 

Room 47: 

GaXe To the Mages' School 

You are in an alcove with a strange marble statue 
in it, the likeness of an elf in long flowing robes. 

He is holding out his hands with the palms up as 
if to offer you something. There is an inscription 
around the bottom of the statue in Drow. 

This area can be reached by going through the 
secret door located in the corridor outside Area 30. 
This is the way to the Academy of Magic. The 
inscription says "Speak the words of power and be 
free." To pass, a character able to cast mage spells 
(including bards or high-level rangers) must simply 
place his or her hands palms down on the hands of 
the statue and repeat the words to any spell. The spell 
is not lost to memory nor does it take effect. The 
statue then teleports everyone in the alcove to area 48. 
If the PC places his or her hands on the hands of the 
statue but does not recite a spell, the statue holds that 
person fast until the words of power are recited. Any 
characters not able to cast mage spells who place their 



hands onto the hands of the statue have a fear spell 
cast upon them, and are not willing to touch the 
statue again in any way. 

The Academy of 
Magic 

Room 48: EkjTrv Gate 
To the Hall of Magic 

This alcove is identical to Room 47, with a marble 
statue of the same elf, an identical inscription, etc. 
The PCs may very well believe that they blinked or 
felt momentarily dizzy, rather than understanding that 
they have been teleported. Any character who makes a 
successful Intelligence check, however, notices that 
the statue is now standing palms down, and that the 
person who activated the teleport is now standing 
palms up. This statue is activated in the same manner 
as the one in area 47 and teleports everyone in the 
alcove back there. The statue also affects those who 
are not authorized to touch it and those trying to acti 
vate it incorrectly in the same manner as the previous 
statue. 


Room 49: 

The Mou)wg P)cTurc Shoa? 

This room has pictures on the walls which seem 
to move of their own volition. They are pictures 
of Drow mages, each in the act of casting a spell. 
Some of the spells you recognize, (lightning bolt, 
fireball) but some are completely outside your 
experience. The pictures seem to run through a 
sequence in 2 or 3 rounds and then begin again. 


These pictures are merely permanent programmed 
illusions displaying different splashy spells designed to 
impress the uninitiated. A successful Intelligence 
check enables a character to notice that each time a 
sequence begins again, the scene is slightly different: 
a variation in the background, a different mage cast 
ing the spell, etc. 

The doors leading out of this room must be opened 

/>v 



by a mage. The mages academy engaged in more 
research and experimentation than the other schools; 
therefore, wandering around unescorted was more 
dangerous than in other areas of the school complex. 
That is why such care was taken to ensure that an 
unknowing person would not stumble in and disrupt 
proceedings. That is also why the mages academy was 
set off by a gate. Since a mage was needed to gain 
entry most laymen were escorted from the moment 
they arrived. The classes here took longer than in any 
of the other academies, but this school of magic 
turned out some of the most powerful sorcerers ever 
known among the Drow. 

Room SO: No T'lpp'mg Please 

This room is filled with tables and benches 
formed from the stone of the floor itself. They 
seem to have grown from the floor like some 
kind of stone fungus. It is clean and orderly and 
even appears to be free of dust. 

The furniture in this room was indeed formed from 
the stone of the floor itself. The staff of the school 
used stone shape spells to create a great many of the 
features in this area. 

This was the only dining area that did not use 
slaves to serve the food or to clean up afterwards. All 
of the menial chores in the magic academy were per 
formed by permanent unseen servants. In fact, if the 
characters sit on any of the benches in the dining 
hall, place settings are provided by the few spells still 
active. There is no meal to serve, but the unseen ser 
vants perform what duties they still can, no matter 
how pointless. The staff of the school felt it was a 
matter of pride to perform as many functions of their 
area with magic as possible. 

Room 51.- 

You Kill it Theyll Cook It 

This area looks like a normal kitchen, with a 
hearth at the north end with a cheery fire blaz 
ing away in it -a bright green fire, that is. A 
bright green fire with streaks of blue. The effect 



87 



would really be quite attractive, if it were not so 
startling. 

Upon examination of the fire, the PCs can deter 
mine that there is no fuel in the hearth, and that the 
fire gives off no smoke, even though it produces heat 
as a normal fire should. The fire is of course magical. 

The meals for the magic academy were prepared 
here by unseen servants under the supervision of two 
chefs. The food was gathered and brought in by nor 
mal means, but all the other chores were handled 
magically. In fact, the unseen servants are still active 
and if given the necessary supervision and supplies, 
could have a meal whipped up in no time. 

If the room is searched, the PCs find a drawer in 
one of the cabinets that yields an amulet of free 
passage. 

Room 52: 

You Light Up My Dfe 

This room is lined with shelves and filled with 
old rotten barrels which obviously once held the 
food for the kitchen. It is surprisingly bright in 
here, considering that you saw no hint of a light 
until you stepped into the room. You notice as 
you enter and exit the room that the light dims 
and brightens with your presence. Like the other 
pantry areas you have seen down here, this area 
is extremely cold. 

The magical light is automatic and reacts to the 
presence of a living being in the pantry area. Unlike 
the other pantries, this room is not chilled by a box of 
brown mold. The temperature in this room is main 
tained by a permanent control temperature spell cast by 
the headmaster of the school. 

There are several glass jars on the shelves that look 
as though they might contain various oozes, slimes, 
jellies, or molds. Indeed they do, but of the mundane, 
non-harmful variety caused by rotting preserves. One 
of the jars obviously exploded some time ago, and 
particles of moldy jam and bits of glass still cling to 
the walls. It is obvious that this area was not a part of 
the cleaning schedule for the unseen servants. 


Room 53: Wb oopst 

This room is completely bare, and the floor is 
level and unbroken. You had come to expect a 
little room with a pit in the center adjoining the 
kitchen areas, but there is no pit. 

This is a disposal area, but true to form, the 
mages decided to not use a pit of green slime like 
the other kitchens did. This room radiates a field 
which destroys all nonliving organic matter (the 
undead learned quite early to avoid it). The chefs 
here merely had the unseen servants carry any dirty 
plates or utensils into the room and they came out 
sparkling clean. 

If the characters enter the room, their metal armor 
and weapons should be all right, but any items of 
organic materials are destroyed. This includes cloth, 
leather, and paper, as well as all supplies of food. Mag 
ical items of the above materials, including scrolls and 
spellbooks, that save versus disintegration remain 
intact; there is no save for non-magical items. Also, 
the characters' hair, fingernails, toenails, and outer 
layer of skin simply disappear. 

Since this effect is nearly instantaneous, the DM 
should try to be somewhat charitable. Unless several 
PCs specifically choose to enter at the same time, 
probably only one person will be affected before the 
others notice what has happened. 

Should the party manage to lure any undead into 
this room, they are of course destroyed-permanently. 

Room 5 A: 

Students Quajitens 

This room looks as if it was once a remarkably 
comfortable area. The remains of four beds and 
four large armchairs still survive. The area seems 
to be much cleaner than those you've seen in 
other areas of the complex. Perhaps some of the 
unseen servants like those in the kitchen still 
take care of the household chores. 

This was a dorm room for four of the aspiring 
mages of the academy. This was where the students 



retired in the evening to study their texts for the next 
day's lessons and to discuss what they had learned in 
the previous day. 

The unseen servants do indeed keep these areas 
tidy, readying them for occupants who will never 
return. 

There are no longer any objects of value in this 
room. 

Room 5 5: Hakj bs Off 

This room looks just as comfortable and tidy as 
the last, and is virtually identical except for the 
book that is lying on one of the chairs to the 
north. The book is a journal that one of the stu 
dents in this room kept of his studies. It is writ 
ten in Drow but if translated could be of interest 
to scholars. 


Room 5 <5: WoizTh The Seejich 

This 60' x 60' room is much like the previous 
ones, in that it is tidy with similarly decayed fur 
nishings. The debris is neatly arranged. There is 
a bright light in one comer and a small pot sits 
within the area of the light. 

The pot used to contain an ornamental plant, 
which was the property of one of the students in this 
room. He cast a continual light altered to only shine 
directly on the plant and directed the unseen servants 
to care for it. The soil in the pot is moist, but the 
plant, which was a gift from the student's family, has 
long since died. 

If the room is searched further, the third bed 
searched contains a wand of magic missiles with 17 
charges remaining. 


Room 57: 

IT Used To Be Magical_ 


At the DM's option, the journal could contain suf 
ficient clues about a previously unknown spell to 
allow research into its casting. This would be a good 
place to introduce a spell into your campaign from 
Drow of the Underdark or one of the other rules sup 
plements. Alternatively, you could insert a spell of 
your own devising here. 

Unfortunately, before any clues can be gained from 
this book, it must be taken from its present owners: a 
pack of wraiths. 

Wraiths (11): Int Very; AL LE; AC 4; MV 12, FI 
24(B); HD 5+3; hp 41 each; THACO 15; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-6; SA Energy Drain; SD Silver or +1 or better 
weapons to hit; MR Nil; SZ M; ML 15; XP 2,000 
each. 

If the book is touched, the wraiths attack immedi 
ately. They rise up from beneath the beds and attempt 
to surround the characters. They gang up on any cler 
ics or mages first, attempting to weaken them as much 
as possible. The wraiths attempt to get between the 
characters and the door and block their escape. 

Except for the journal there is no treasure in this 
room. The wraiths live here and use the book as bait 
when they sense the presence of living creatures. 


This room is a mess. Obviously no one has been 
tidying up in here, as things are strewn about the 
area and covered with a thick layer of dust. 

Due to an experiment gone wrong, this room has a 
dispel magic effect in the doorway, which is perma 
nent. Any creature or magical construct passing 
through the door triggers a dispel magic at 12th level 
centered in the room. Needless to say, the unseen ser- 
wants assigned to this room were soon destroyed. 

Any characters passing through the doorway must 
check for each of their magical items or currently 
operating spell effects as per the dispel magic spell in 
the Players' Handbook. Any visible or noticeable 
effects should be reported to the PCs immediately. 


The room beyond the doorway is not visible. 
There is an area of impenetrable darkness just 
inside the door. 






Room 58: 

BeuuAize The Darzksiess 


89 



This room has had a continual darkness cast within 
it. Inside the room is a spectre, which waits here for 
wanderers to venture inside. It doesn't need to see to 
find its victims, and the magical darkness prevents 
clerical turning from working on it. It does not come 
out of the room unless the darkness is nullified in 
some manner. Even then, it attempts to flee rather 
than remain to face a group of adventurers on even 
terms. (Note that Blind Fighting is not helpful 
against this opponent. The subtle clues of motion 
and sound that the proficiency of Blind Fighting 
depends on are not present when fighting a non-cor- 
poreal creature.) 

Spectre (1): Int High; AF FE; AC 2; MV 15, FF 
30(B); HD 7+3; hp 57; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; 
SA Energy drain; SD +1 or better weapon to hit; MR 
Sp; SZ M; ME 15; XP 3,000 each. 


Shadow (13): Int Fow; AF CE; AC 7; MV 12; HD 
3+3; hp 21 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2-5 + spe 
cial; SA Strength drain; SD +1 or better weapon to 
hit; MR Sp; SZ M; ME Sp; XP 420 each. 

The ghost does not cause fear or aging until it turns 
toward the characters and they see its face. The shad 
ows do not attack until the ghost has turned and 
hopefully weakened the party. 

The ghost stands back and directs the attacks of 
the shadows. It does not attack until half of the shad 
ows are destroyed. Only then does it engage in melee. 

There is no treasure in this room, but there are 
texts which, if read carefully by a character able to use 
conjuration/summoning spells, may allow him to 
research another spell of that type for his spellbook. 

Room 60: Ra)m£>o<ju Room 


If the spectre is dispatched, a search of the room 
turns up an amulet that allows the wearer to cast one 
continual darkness per day. It also enables the owner of 
the amulet to see normally while inside the darkness 
as long as she or he is wearing the amulet. 

Room 59: 

ConiJuraDon) CLass 

There are tables arranged throughout the room with 
benches on one side of them so that those seated 
would face the west wall. On the west wall is a raised 
dais with a flat black space behind it for drawing vari 
ous diagrams. This appears to have been a classroom 
for young mages. In fact, there appears to be a class in 
session at this moment. There is a robed form at the 
back at the class facing the wall, and a group of vague 
dark forms sitting at the tables. 

This room was used to teach the arts of conjuration 
and summoning. The class that appears to be in the 
room is in reality a ghost giving a lecture to a class of 
shadows. 

Ghost (1): Int High; AF FE; AC 0 or 8; MV 9; HD 
10; hp 62; THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg Age 10-40 Years; 
SA Sp; SD Sp; MR Nil; SZ M; ME Sp; XP 7,000. 


This room seems empty, except for the debris of 
desks and chairs. But the walls seem to be of 
many different colors that shift and sway and 
sparkle. The effect is almost hypnotic. 

This was the room where illusion and the art of 
deception were studied. As soon as the whole group 
of characters is in the room, the door seems to disap 
pear. In fact, all of the features of the room start to 
move around, until it is nearly impossible to tell 
where the door was. 

The characters must make a roll against half their 
Intelligence to find their way out of the room. A 
character who makes this roll can lead out others who 
fail. Also any character who believes the illusion must 
make a save versus half his or her Constitution or 
become dizzy and nauseated for a turn (-1 on all com 
bat rolls.) 

Room 61: 

NecRomawcy CLass 


This classroom is decorated in somber shades of 
gray and black and wine red. The shelves which 
line the walls contain skulls-dozens of skulls of 


90 


many sizes. 



This is the room where they taught the spells that 
deal with the realm of death. The skulls on the 
shelves were used to practice summoning the spirits of 
the dead. There are skulls from dwarves, humans, 
elves, gnomes, and several humanoid creatures the 
PCs won't recognize at all. If any character starts to 
move the skulls around and examine them, the third 
one moved is trapped to release a spectre. 

Spectre (1): Int High; AL LE; AC 2; MV 15, FL 
30(B); HD 7+3; hp 55; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; 
SA Energy drain; SD +1 or better weapon to hit; MR 
Sp; SZ M; ML 15; XP 3,000. 

The spectre immediately attacks the character 
holding the skull, attacking that person exclusively 
until one or the other of them is destroyed. Because of 
the residual magic in this room the spectre cannot be 
turned while in this classroom. 

After the spectre is dealt with, the next character 
to disturb a skull finds an amulet of free passage and a 
500-gold-piece emerald hidden inside it. That is the 
only treasure found in this room. 

Room 62: 

The S)wg)wg Harp 

This room was once rather comfortably ap 
pointed with two beds and two chairs. The carv 
ings on the walls are tasteful and soothing to the 
eye. There is a fireplace on the west wall, and a 
muted yellow flame burns in the hearth. Al 
though you sense no fuel or smoke, the fire 
seems to give off a pleasant warmth that is wel 
come in these stone halls. 


Other than this there are no other items of interest in 
the room. 

Room 63: The Mad InjsTrucTor 

This room is decorated much like the last room but in 
a somewhat more individualistic style. The senior 
instructor used this room, and he was the master of 
necromancy for the school. He used spells to subtly 
modify the decorations in this area, enhancing the 
walls to create the effect of a suggestion spell. 

PCs who remain in this room for more than three 
rounds must make a save versus spell or believe that 
one of their party members (choose at random) is in 
fact a doppleganger. If others try to convince the vic 
tims that they are wrong, the affected characters 
believe that the entire party is made up of monsters 
that are trying to kill them. This was the instructor's 
idea of a joke on any who would snoop in his room. 

One good night's sleep serves to clear the delusion 
from the PCs' minds. 

Room 6 A: 

InsTrucTors' QuarTcrs 

This room was once a comfortable room for two 
people. The remains of rather luxurious furniture 
are scattered around the area as if it had been 
previously searched. 

There is nothing of interest in this room; anything 
of value has long since been looted. 

Room 65: 

The HeadmasTeR's ParLor 


This is one of the rooms shared by two of the 
junior instructors of the Academy of Magic. The 
flames in the fireplace are of the same type as those in 
Room 51, although they are a different color. They 
burn indefinitely, giving off light and heat, but giving 
off no smoke and needing no fuel. 

If searched, under the remains of the bed to the 
south lies a harp that, if politely requested to in 
elvish, plays soothing music for up to two hours a day. 


This room was obviously once a very luxurious 
receiving area. It is easy to imagine that impor 
tant visitors were once received in this ruin. It is 
sad somehow to see it in its present condition. 

This area is a shambles. It appears as if a pitched 
battle had taken place here, and everything in the 
room is completely destroyed. There is no chance 
that anything of value remains intact in this room. 


91 



Room 66: 

The Headmasters Bedroom 

This area is a calm and quiet place, much at 
odds with the chaos of the previous area. There 
is a bed, a desk, and two chairs grouped around 
the empty fireplace, all of which seem to have 
once been made of fine materials. Whoever 
lived here had very rich taste. In fact, he may 
still be here -there is a long decayed body on 
the bed, in the remnants of rich robes. 

The body on the bed is not the former headmaster. 
It is one of his assistants who wanted to be headmas 
ter one day. The headmaster, in his last act as a living 
being, paralyzed the poor wretch and left him here to 
gradually waste away. But the unfortunate victim had 
the last laugh. If the remains are searched, the party 
finds, under the decaying robes, a girdle of many 
pouches still containing several ordinary (nonorganic) 
spell components, a small mirror, some powdered sil 
ver, and a crystal bead. (The latter two items are 
material components for protection from good, 10' 
radius and minor globe of invulnerability , respectively.) 

Room 67: 

The HeadmasTeR's UbRARy 

This area is filled with bookshelves. They are 
loaded with what appear to be spellbooks and 
tomes on the arts of magic, which seem rela 
tively intact. Unfortunately, that doesn't look 
like the librarian heading this way. 

The headmaster is here with his beloved books. He 
is now a spectre and takes great offense at the fact 
that anyone has entered his library. 


even after death. As well as the abilities of a normal 
spectre, he has the abilities of a 9th-level wizard, with 
the ability to cast spells (4,3,3,2,1) His spells are: chill 
touch, color spray, grease, wall of fog; darkness 15' 
radius, levitate, web; feign death, vampiric touch, wind 
wall; contagion, enervation; summon shadow. Treat him 
as a specialty mage of the school of necromancy. 

He fights ruthlessly, preferring to cast spells rather 
than attack directly. He casts no spells that would 
damage his books. This is rather ironic, since the 
tomes have long since decomposed to illegibility; 
only the spines remain intact, giving the illusion of 
wholeness. 

Room 68: 

Someowe SummoMed? 

This room is huge, as well it might be; there are 
three protective circles here of differing types. 
This room was obviously used for summoning 
creatures from other planes. 

This room is now trapped. Muiral has rigged the 
two circles to the south so that they fail to provide 
any protection from any creatures that are summoned 
here. The northernmost circle also has a deadly trap: 
it contains a crazed air elemental that is waiting 
motionless in the center. If anyone or anything breaks 
the circle, it is freed to attack all in the room. 

Elemental, Air (1): Int Low; AL N; AC 2; MV FI 
36(A); HD 16; hp 108; THACO 5; #AT 1; Dmg 
2-20; SA Sp; SD +2 or better weapon to hit; MR Nil; 
SZ L; ML 17; XP 11,000. 

The elemental does not even try to flee back to its 
home; it merely attacks all in the room until slain. 


Spectre (1): Int High; AL LE; AC 2; MV 15, FL 
30(B); HD 7+3; hp 59; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; 
SA Energy drain; SD + 1 or better weapon to hit; MR 
Sp; SZ M; ML 15; XP 3,000. 

The headmaster is somewhat special, as he has 
somehow managed to retain some of his magical skills 


Room 69: The Alchemy Lab 

This room has two long, wide tables against the 
north wall. They are covered with glassware and 
instruments of a mysterious nature. The room is 
brightly lit by two huge braziers filled with bright 
blue flames. 



This room was the alchemy laboratory, where all 
potions and the like for the complex were produced. 
If searched, the cabinets under the tables yield three 
large jars of a dried caky substance, which if ground 
and mixed with fat or lard, yield an ointment that 
renders a character both invisible and scentless. The 
ointment must be rubbed on the skin and clothing, 
and each jar contains enough to cover three man- 
sized creatures. It is 75% likely that an alchemist 
could duplicate the formula if given one jar of the 
ointment to use as a sample. 

The flames in the braziers are of the same type as 
those in Rooms 51 and 62. Anyone peering into the 
base of one of the braziers finds a small box in the 
bottom of it. If fished out (with tongs that can be 
found among the alchemy equipment) it contains an 
amulet of free passage. 

Room 70: The DbiZAizy 

This room is filled with a huge collection of 
books. There must be thousands of volumes 
here, all in a remarkable state of preservation. 
There is a large table and three chairs, also well 
preserved. 

The books in this room are all of relatively mun 
dane magic-related subjects: texts on magical theory, 
history of magic, famous wizards, etc. (The magic 
books are all kept in the room behind the secret door 
on the north wall in Room 71.) The books in here are 
very well preserved and still readable. If handled care 
fully, they may be removed from the shelves and stud 
ied. However, anyone attempting to take a book out 
of this room by either door triggers an effect similar to 
a wall of force, which blocks the path. Only if the 
book is again placed on the shelf or left on the table 
may the party exit the room. 


in here of what can only be spellbooks, and a 
table with four chairs. A small sign still glows 
faintly above the door. 

This is where the collections of spell books for the 
students and faculty were kept. Again, they are in 
remarkably good condition. There is a 50% chance to 
find any mage spell sought of fourth level or below; 
25% for any others. If they want, the party can rest 
here while their mages study from the books in this 
room, but removing any books from this room could 
well be a fatal mistake. The writing above the door, 
glowing faintly in red, is in the Drow language, and 
reads: "Theft of the Books of Power will be your final 
deed. Read you this and believe." Any character fool 
ish enough to ignore the warning and attempt to 
remove a book from this room triggers an effect simi 
lar to a retributive strike. All creatures within 10 feet 
of the door take 80 hit points of damage, those 
between 10 and 20 feet take 60, and those between 
20 and 30 feet take 40 hit points. A successful saving 
throw versus spells means that only one-half the indi 
cated damage is sustained. The book is completely 
destroyed. 

The Drzouu 
Living Atzeds 

T hese are the areas where the majority of the 
Drow lived out their daily lives back when this 
was a thriving community. The areas in this region 
are not as extensively detailed as the school complex; 
many rooms in this area are left for you to fill with 
your own traps, treasures and monsters. 

The final confrontation with Muiral takes place in 
this region; it will be a deadly battle for all but the 
most powerful of parties. 


Room 71: Magical DbizAizy Room 7 2.: The JesTe^'s Stage 


This area is a stage off of what would be an 
open-air market- if it were open to the sky 
instead of in a cave. 



You can tell immediately upon opening the 
secret door that you have stumbled upon some 
thing special. You can almost feel the mystical 
energy in the air. There are several bookshelves 


93 



This was the stage for entertainers on market days. 
The tattered remnants of a curtained backdrop are 
still here, and several ancient but still serviceable 
torches. 

If the characters peer behind the curtain, they find, 
scrawled clumsily in Drow, "Folon was here." Folon 
was a lackluster entertainer who aspired to fame. It is 
quite certain that no one in the party has ever heard 
of him. 

Room 7 3: The MarJcoT 

This was once a thriving marketplace for the 
Drow community, where goods, food and ser 
vices were peddled to the general populace of 
this level. There are remnants of a few of the 
vendors' booths, but in general it is empty. This 
area is deathly still now, and an echo can be 
heard whenever you make a sound. 


SD Absorb heat; MR Nil; SZ S; ML N/A; XP 15 
each. 

Fungus, Violet (1-4): Int Non; AL N; AC 7; MV 1; 
HD 3; THACO 17; #AT 1-4; Dmg Sp; SA Sp; SD 
Nil; SZ M; ML 12; XP 175 each. 

Fungus, Shrieker (2-8): Int Non; AL N; AC 7; MV 
1; HD 3; THACO 17; #AT 0; Dmg Nil; SA Nil; SD 
Noise; MR Nil; SZ M; ML 12; XP 120 each. 

Green Slime (1): Int Non; AL N; AC 9; MV 0; HD 
2; THACO 19; #AT 0; Dmg Nil; SA Sp; SD Sp; SZ S; 
ML 10; XP 65 each. 

Mold, Russet (1): Int Non; AL N; AC 9; MV 0; HD 
N/A; THACO N/A; #AT 0; Dmg N/A; SA Spores; 
SD Immune to weapons, cold, fire; MR Nil; SZ S; ML 
N/A; XP 35 each. 


There is a large fountain in the center of the mar 
ket square, which once was beautiful but now is 
cracked and dry. There are a few ancient coins scat 
tered on the bottom, glinting faintly under 'the coat 
ing of powdery dust left behind when the water 
evaporated. There are three gold coins, and six silver, 
all bearing the likeness of a Drow ruler of long ago. 
They might perhaps be worth ten times their face 
value to a collector. 


Roper (1-3): Int Exceptional; AL CE; AC 0; MV 3; 
HD 10-12; THACO 10 HD: 11, 11-12 HD: 9; #AT 1; 
Dmg 5-20 (5d4); SA Strands, Strength drain; SD Sp; 
MR 80%; SZ L; ML 15; XP 10 HD: 10,000, 11 HD: 
11,000, 12 HD: 12,000 each. 

A band of 25 driders lives on the ledge at the 
northwest area of the cavern. They attack at the 
slightest provocation. 


Room 7 4n 

The Farzmerz's BeL b$ 

This area was used as a huge communal farm to grow 
all manner of edible fungi and plants which could 
thrive here away from the light. Over the years, the 
plants here became wild, and some of them now pose 
a threat to the unwary wanderer. These are encoun 
tered on a 1 on a d6. Roll for encounters twice for 
every hour spent in this area. 

The following plants and fungi may be encoun 
tered when wandering this area: 


Driders (25): Int High; AL CE; AC 3; MV 12; HD 
6+6; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4 or by weapon; SA 
Poison Bite; SD Nil; MR 15%; SZ L; ML 14; XP 
Transformed mages (9): 3,000 each, transformed 
priests (16): 5,000 each. 

Each drider is able to use the following spells once 
per day: dancing lights, faerie fire, darkness, levitate, 
know alignment, detect magic. The transformed priests 
can also use the following spells once per day: detect 
lie, clairvoyance, suggestion, and dispel magic. 


Mold, Brown (1): Int Non; AL N; AC 9; MV 0; HD 
N/A; THACO N/A; #AT 0; Dmg N/A; SA Freezing; 






94 



Room Z 5: The AMtmal Farids 

This area was used to raise the lizards and other crea 
tures used as food and beasts of burden by the Drow. 
It has gone feral in much the same way as the fungus 
gardens. Roll for encounters (1 on a d6) twice per 
hour in this area and choose from the following list: 


Piercer (3-18): Int Non; AL N; AC 3; MV 1; HD 4; 
hp 30 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 4-24; SA Sur 
prise; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ M; ML 10; XP 420 each. 

Spider, Huge (5): Int Animal; AL N; AC 6; MV 18; 
HD 2+2; hp 12 each; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; 
SA Sp; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ M; ML 8; XP 270 each. 


Bat, Huge (mobat) (10): Int Low; AL NE; AC Sp/7; 
MV 3, FI 15 (C); HD 6; hp 40 each; THACO 15; #AT 
1; Dmg 2-8; SA Sp; SD Sp; MR Nil; SZ H; ML 11; 
XP 975 each. 


Spider, Phase (4): Int Low; AL N; AC 7; MV 6, 
Web 15; HD 5+5; hp 42 each; THACO 15; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-6; SA Sp; SD Phasing; MR Nil; SZ H; ML 15; 
XP 1,400 each. 


Beetle, Rhinoceros (3): Int Non; AL N; AC 2; MV 
6; HD 12; hp 90 each; THACO 9; #AT 2; Dmg 
3-18/2-16; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ L; ML 14; 
XP 4,000 each. 


Will o'wisp (1): Int Exceptional; AL CE; AC -8; 
MV FI 18 (A); HD 9; hp 68; THACO 11; #AT 1; 
Dmg 2-16; SA Sp; SD Sp; MR Sp; SZ S; ML 17; XP 
3,000 each. 


Bulette (2): Int Animal; AL N; AC -2/4/6; MV 14 
(3); HD 9; hp 70; THACO 11; #AT 3; Dmg 4-48/ 
3-18/3-18; SA 8' jump; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ L; ML 
11; XP 4,000 each. 

Centipede, Giant (20): Int Non; AL N; AC 9; MV 
15; HD 2 hp; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg Nil; SA Poi 
son; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ T; ML 6; XP 35 each. 

Lizard, Fire (2): Int Animal; AL N; AC 3; MV 9; 
HD 10; hp 75 each; THACO 11; #AT 3; Dmg 1-8/ 

1- 8/2-16; SA Sp; SD Sp; MR Nil; SZ G; ML 12; XP 
3,000 each. 

Lizard, Giant (5): Int Non; AL N; AC 5; MV 15; 
HD 3+1; hp 22 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; 
SA Sp; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ H; ML 8; XP 175 each. 

Lizard, Subterranean (6): Int Non; AL N; AC 5; 

MV 12; HD 6; hp 45 each; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 

2- 12; SA Sp; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ H; ML 10; XP 650 
each. 


Rooms Z 6-7 8 : 

The Slave Compound 

This area was home to the multitude of slaves who 
worked in the farm and garden areas and as servants 
to the Drow. 

76 was a central courtyard where the slaves 
received their instructions and reprimands for the 
day. 

77 was the area devoted to the Slavemasters' Quar 
ters. 

78, 79, 80 were the sleeping quarters for the 
slaves. They are filled with the remains of rotting 
mattresses and bedclothes, crammed closely together. 
Room 79 also is infested with a horde of incredibly 
hungry fleas. 

81, 82, 83 are communal dining areas, with rows 
of tables and benches. 

84 was the kitchen for the slave compound. There 
are two massive hearths and several rusted cooking 
pots of exceptionally poor quality. 


Gray Ooze (1): Int Animal; AL N; AC 8; MV 1; HD 
3+3; hp 25; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2-16; SA Cor 
rodes metal; SD Sp; MR Nil; SZ M; ML 10; XP 270 
each. 


Room 85: 

The Counting House 

This room contains several chests and boxes. It 
appears to have been a storeroom of some kind. There 






95 



was once a strong door protecting this area, but it has 
rotted away. One of the boxes in the back seems to be 
split along the top, and the glint of golden metal can 
be seen shining through. Just inside the door is a 
small gem. 

This is not at all what it appears. This innocent 
appearing room is in reality the lair of a greater mimic 
(see MC cards in this product) using its illusion pow 
ers to lure someone inside for a look. The greater 
mimic covers most of the floor in this room and has 
disguised itself to look like a storeroom filled with 
boxes of coins and valuables. The gem inside the door 
is real, placed there by the greater mimic to lend cre 
dence to the illusion. It is a ruby worth 150 gp. 

The greater mimic waits patiently until the party 
has entered the room, then folds itself around them to 
attack. If it appears to be losing the ensuing fight, the 
greater mimic gladly negotiates with the party, trad 
ing any information the DM wants them to have 
about this region for its life. 

Room 86: The Ikjkj 

This appears to have once been a tavern or 
music hall. Strangely, you had never thought of 
the Drow of having such entertainments in their 
cities. 

This is just what it appears to be. This was once the 
best bar in town, as well as the only one. Only drinks 
and foods not requiring extensive preparation, such as 
breads, cheeses, and fruits, were served here, as the 
proprietor, a former entertainer himself, wanted the 
focus to be on the amusements and the drink. 

If the room is searched, a loose board behind the 
bar yields a strongbox with over 200 platinum pieces 
in it. These ancient Drow coins fetch up to ten times 
their face value if sold to a collector. 

The party also finds, on a corner wall behind the 
stage area, the clumsily scribbled words "Folon was 
here." 


Room 87: The StoneKoom 

This is where the liquid refreshments and nonperish 
able foodstuffs for the establishment were stored. 
Most of the barrels have split open, spilling their con 
tents in a now dried and sticky puddle on the floor, 
and the place reeks strongly of long-soured ale. If the 
PCs can stand to remain in here long enough to 
search the room, they find six bottles of wine that are 
still intact. The liquid inside has, of course, turned to 
wine vinegar. 

The AriehiA 

Room 8 8: Cosjfrio sjTaVosj 

This area is a vast cavern, perhaps 50 feet high 
and so large you cannot see its size in the dark 
ness. Near you, you can make out tiers of seats 
stretching up and around the walls. 

This is where Muiral meets the characters for their 
final battle. This immense arena was used for gladia 
torial combats between slaves and wild beasts cap 
tured in Undermountain. Today it will be the scene of 
yet another contest to the death. 

When the party enters this arena, a wall of force 
appears across the opening to the outer halls. A voice 
rings out and a dim but serviceable illumination 
springs into place, enabling the party to see the full 
size of the room. The voice is that of Muiral calling 
out a challenge to the characters. 

"So you think you are strong enough to best 
me? I know that is why you have come to this 
place. And that is why I have been waiting here 
for you. For I am Muiral. Muiral, do you hear? 
The very name should make you tremble with 
fear. You silly little wretches will soon feel the 
power that is mine to command! For mine is the 
only way. If you seek to leave this place you must 
go through me. Kill me if you dare!" 


Muiral then appears, in all his hideous glory, in a 
flash of light and smoke, accompanied by six wraith- 



96 



spiders and up to 10 undead minions if the strength of 
the party warrants it. He uses all of his resources to 
fight the characters and gives no quarter. The crea 
tures accompanying him also fight to the death. He is 
quite prepared, even in his madness. He has been 
watching the party all along, and is ready for any spe 
cial tactics that they have been using. Remember, 
too, that his horned ring absorbs any magic missiles or 
electrical attacks to power its own magics. 

The statues at the four corners of the arena, visible 
once Muiral has illuminated the cavern, are of mages 
pointing wands toward the center of the arena and 
are saved by Muiral as his ace in the hole. 

Muiral begins his assault with a massive damage 
spell such as chain lightning. He continues to use area 
effect spells as long as he can, trying to keep enemy 
spellcasters off-balance. If forced to enter into melee, 
he uses his two-handed vorpal sword +3. If truly hard 
pressed, Muiral uses his control of the statues in the 
comers to project a 6-die lightning bolt at one oppo 
nent in the arena once every other round. He can do 
this from any statue he chooses, and can do this as 


well as his regular action for the round. He must roll 
an attack for the lightning, and the bolt strikes only 
one person. 

If Muiral is reduced to 20 or fewer hit points, he 
immediately teleports to safety. He then heals and 
reequips himself, and waits for a chance to work his 
revenge on the party at a later date. If he is killed 
before he has the chance to do this, his body is imme 
diately teleported to a place deep within Undermoun 
tain where he has set up healing and restorative 
magics for just such an emergency. The party does not 
encounter him again within the Gauntlet, but may 
well live to regret having made such a powerful 
enemy should they escape. 

Muiral: CE Hm F9/W13; AC 3; MV 15; HP 89; 
THACO 12 (9 w/ sword); #AT 2 + special; Dmg 1-6 
+ poison (tail sting)/spell or weapon type: 1-10 + 
3/3-18 + 3 (vorpal sword +3); SA: control undead to 
300', ESP (permanent and automatic), mind blank; SD 
Ring of fire resistance; CON 16; INT 18. Spells 
(5,5,5,4,4,2): chill touch, color spray, magic missile x3; 



97 







alter self, create water, flaming sphere, web, infratorch; 
dispel magic, fireball, fly, haste, lightning bolt; charm 
monster, dig, enervation, polymorph other; animate dead, 
hold monster, monster summoning III, wall of force; 
chain lightning *2. 

The Wav Home 

T he inner walls of the arena are covered with 
murals of different terrains common to the 
Forgotten Realms. If Muiral is slain or driven away, 
the party is free to examine the pictures. 

Eventually, they discover one that looks like a 
familiar area, perhaps near the place from which the 
gate originally brought them here. All of the paintings 
react to a detect magic spell. If a character places both 
hands flat against the picture, she or he appears to be 
transported into the mural. (Take the player aside 
until the situation is resolved - no sense spoiling the 
surprise for everybody.) When all in the party have 
been drawn into the picture, they all are released in 
the area depicted. 

There is, of course, no predicting which picture 
they want to try (or may accidentally activate), and if 
they enter another mural they could be transported to 
a completely unknown destination, perhaps leading 
to another adventure. 



Mu)tzaVs GauwHeT. 
AizeAS of ItoTeizesT 

A. There is a mirrored surface of some sort here that 
can function as a gate once Muiral has activated it. 
This might be a mirror on the wall, a shiny piece of 
metal, a pool of still water, and the like. Anyone 
breaking a mirror or destroying a mirrored surface 
anywhere in the complex is the victim of a cause seri 
ous wounds spell. 

B. These are magic-dead areas. Spells cannot be cast 
(but are not wasted), currently running spell effects 
are negated; magical weapons and armor are regained 
while in these areas, and magical items do not func 
tion. 

C. There is a large pile of bones here, picked quite 
clean, which if carefully examined by anyone familiar 
with this creature, prove to be the skeleton of a small 
dragon (about 30' long). 

D. This is where a pack of mites has set up a trip wire 
to surprise unwary opponents. Once someone in the 
party has sprung any of these traps, the PCs find 
themselves infested with mites on a regular basis. The 
pack follows the PCs, staying out of sight, until the 
party trips another wire trap or is otherwise distracted 
but not in combat. Then the pack reappears and tries 
to harass the characters and steal their bright shiny 
gems. 

Gremlin, Mite (24): Int Low; AL LE; AC 8; MV 3; 
HD 1-1; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3; SA Nil; SD 
Nil; MR Nil; SZ T; ML 8-10; XP 35 each. 

The mites are constantly twittering and chattering 
amongst themselves but are quite adept at staying out 
of sight, since they are small and cowardly. 

E. This is the lair of the mite pack. There are many 
sparkly gems here. The mites have accumulated many 
coins (15 sp, 23 gp and 13 pp), which are scattered 
around the floor. The gems are in a neat pile in the 



corner: 3 gems worth 400 gp each, 8 worth 250 gp, 10 
worth 75 gp, and 32 worth 10 gp. The mites make 
every attempt to lead the party away from here or 
otherwise defend their treasure. There are trip wires 
every three feet, and 25% of them are connected to 
nets which drop on the party, allowing the mites to 
swarm over them. Just before the party reaches the 
gems, they must avoid the deep pit trap in the floor 
(10' deep and 6' square. The pit is covered with a 
loosely secured net which is camouflaged with debris 
and rubble. 

F. There is a nest of giant spiders here, and many 
webs. 

Spider, Giant (3): Int Low; AL CE; AC 4; MV 3, 
Wb 12; HD 3+3; THAC0 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; SA 
Poison; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ L; ML 13; XP 420 each. 

G. This corridor is filled with webs. Behind them are 
the spinners of these webs: huge watch spiders. 

Spider, Huge (Watch) (7): Int Low; AL N; AC 6; 
MV 18; HD 2+2; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; SA 
Poison; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ M; ML 8; XP 270 each. 

H. Entering this area subjects the party to a buildup 
of toxic gases. The characters must save versus breath 
weapon or spend 2d4 rounds choking and retching. 
All combat rolls are made at -1 for another turn. 

J. The stone carvings in these areas are a perfect hid 
ing place for gargoyles. 

Gargoyle (2-5): Int Low; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9, FI 15 
(C); HD 4+4; THAC0 15; #AT 4; Dmg 1-3/1-3/1-6/ 
1-4; SA Nil; SD +1 or better weapon to hit; MR Nil; 
SZ M; ML 11; XP 420 each. 

K. The mirrored surface in this room is a framed mir 
ror, propped up in the corner of the room. Anyone 
looking behind it finds a gauntlet of evertorch. (See 
"New Magical Items.") 






Necu Spells 



he following section includes spells 
for both priests and wizards. Many 
are possessed by NPCs within the 
Deep Levels, and PCs are likely to 
encounter them in this fashion. 


Scrolls containing the spells should be few and far 
between; make magic-wielding PCs work for these 
rare rewards. 


Priests' Spells 

XC\ igh level priests nestled in the catacombs of 
pi) Undermountain have spent years researching 
new magics. Many of these, priests of Malar the 
Beastlord, have added spells to the Animal sphere. It 
is up the DM whether PC priests can gain these spells 
through research. 

The following spells present these new clerical 
enchantments that can be discovered on scrolls hid 
den within the deep ways. Priests with these spells 
are more formidable foes. Some of the characters 
detailed in the NPC section have these spells in their 
repertoire. 


Thind-LeveL Spell 


ing, and other objects stop in mid-motion. Although 
these metal objects can be touched, they cannot be 
moved for the duration of the spell. It is as if the 
metal weighed tons or was held fast by sovereign glue. 
This spell can prevent individuals in the area of effect 
from drawing weapons or from removing metal (or 
part-metal) objects in the area of effect. The spell is 
especially useful against individuals clad in chain mail 
or plate mail. An individual wearing metal armor will 
find he cannot move until the spell wears off. 

Further, anyone wearing metal who enters the area 
of effect finds the metal in his or her possession is also 
affected by the spell. 

FounTh-Level Spells 

Find Companion (Conjuration/Summoning) 

Sphere: Animal 
Range: 1 mile/per two levels 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: Special 
Casting Time: 1 hour 
Area of Effect: 1 familiar 
Saving Throw: Special 


Hold Metal (Enchantment/Charm) 

Sphere: Charm 

Range: 30 yards 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 1 round/level 

Casting Time: 6 

Area of Effect: 5 sq. feet/level 

Saving Throw: None 

By casting this spell, the priest causes all ferrous 
metal (iron, iron alloys, steel) within his area of effect 
to be held fast, just as a character would in a hold per 
son spell. Swords being swung, pendulum blades arc 


This spell is similar to the first-level wizard spell, 
find familiar, but is in some respects more powerful. 
Priests casting this spell are attempting to summon 
an animal for aid and companionship. Like wizards, 
priests can have only one companion at a time, and 
they have no control over what creature answers the 
call unless they couple the spell with animal sum 
moning. 

No matter the creature summoned, it will have 
greater intelligence and a longer life span than 
others of its kind. Priest companions have an intelli 
gence of 4 or 5. Priests gain the heightened senses of 
their companion, granting them a +1 bonus to all 
surprise rolls. 



Priests are linked to the animal companion tele- 
pathically, and can give it directions telepathically or 
verbally. In return, the priests can understand the 
thoughts and sounds of their animal companion, as if 
they were using a speak with animals spell. 

If the companion is separated from its priest by 
more than a mile for more than one day, it loses 1 hit 
point a day until it dies. 

Unlike a wizard's familiar, a priest's companion 
does not gain the priest's saving throws. Further, the 
priest does not suffer physical damage if the compan 
ion dies. 

Priests can attempt to find a companion once a 
month until they are successful. The process involves 
an hour-long prayer session in which priests must ask 
their deity for a companion and burn 100 gp worth of 
incense during the process. Immediately after the 
spell is complete, priests know if they were successful. 
The companion will arrive at the spot the spell was 
cast within 1-4 hours. 

Striking the companion or withholding its food 
causes the spell to fail, at which time the companion 
is no longer held and can freely depart. That kind of 
animal will no longer become a companion to priests 
who lose their companion in this manner. 

A priest's familiar typically has 4-12 hit points. 


plus 1 hit point per level of the priest, and an Armor 
Class of 7. 

D20 

Roll 

Familiar 

Sensory Powers 

1-3 

Wild dog 

Smell, hearing 

4-6 

Eagle 

Distance vision 

7-9 

Wild boar 

Smell, hearing 

10-12 

Fox 

Smell, hearing 

13-15 

Giant rat 

Night vision 

16-18 

Badger 

Smell 

19-20 

No familiar available in range 


Animal Sight (Alteration) 

Sphere: Animal 

Range: Touch 

Components: S 

Duration: 1 turn/ level 

Casting Time: 1 turn 

Area of Effect: Creature touched 

Saving Throw: None 

This spell is often employed by priests who have 
companions. By casting this spell upon an animal, the 
priest literally sees through that creature's eyes. 
Wherever the animal travels for the duration of the 
spell, the priest will see whatever it sees. 

During this time, the priest must be stationary and 
concentrate on the animal. Damage caused to the 
priest interrupts the spell. 

This spell is especially useful when the priest 
wishes to spy on other individuals or discover the lay 
of a territory before entering it personally. 

BfTb-Lev>eL Spells 

Hard Water (Alteration) 

Sphere: Elemental 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M 

Duration: 1 turn/+ 1 round per level 

Casting Time: 1 turn 

Area of Effect: 10 cubic feet/level 

Saving Throw: None 

This spell turns water into a rock-hard substance. 
Magical or enchanted water is not affected by this 
spell. The hard water retains its color and its content; 
however, it is solid for the duration of the spell. The 
amount of water affected cannot exceed 10 cubic feet 
(approximately 75 gallons) per the priest's level. 

Creatures, such as fish, insects, and humans, 
imbedded in the hard water are not injured or killed, 
and they do not suffocate. They are simply held until 
the spell has run its course. The spell can be negated 
before its duration expires by casting a successful dis- 


101 



pel magic on the hard water. The priest can cancel the 
spell at will. 

Priests casting the spell can designate the depth to 
which the water becomes hard. For example, a priest 
casting hard water on a river can specify that only the 
surface of the water becomes hard, thereby making it 
possible to walk on. 

The material components for the spell are a flask of 
water and a stone. 

Float (Alteration) 

Sphere: Creation 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M 

Duration: 2 turns + 1 turn per level 

Casting Time: 1 turn 

Area of Effect: Object touched 

Saving Throw: None 

This spell allows the priest to bestow a form of 
magical flight upon an object weighing 500 pounds or 
less. The priest moves the object through concentra 
tion, causing it to move either vertically or horizon 
tally at a movement rate of 6-half that if ascending 
or descending. The maneuverability class of the 
object is C. Further, the caster can cause the object to 
hover motionless, suspended in the air. Disrupting the 
caster's concentration ends the spell. 

The material component for the spell is a bit of 
down from a duck. 

Rage (Alteration) 

Sphere: Combat 
Range: Touch 
Components: V 

Duration: 1 turn/+ 1 round per level 
Casting Time: 5 
Area of Effect: One creature 
Saving Throw: None 

Casting this spell invokes a battle rage that tem 
porarily raises Strength, combat abilities, and hit 
points. The affected individual's Strength is raised to 


18 (19 if the individual already has an 18 Strength), 
regardless of racial maximums. The individual gains an 
additional attack per round and enjoys a lo-hit-point 
bonus for the duration of the spell. Further, the indi 
vidual gains a +1 bonus on initiative and a +2 bonus 
on saving throws made while the spell is in effect. 

Despite the battle fervor, the enraged creature can 
tell friend from foe with a successful Intelligence 
check at -2. However, enraged creatures are so intent 
on combat that they cannot cast spells. 

After the spell elapses, the individual is exhausted 
and must rest 1 turn before engaging in combat or 
other stressful activities again. 

Sbrtb-Lev>eL Spells 

Animal Transfer (Alteration) 

Sphere: Animal 

Range: 60 yards 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 3 turns + 1 turn per level 

Casting Time: 1 turn 

Area of Effect: 1 creature 

Saving Throw: Special 

Casting this spell transfers the priest's mind into 
the body of a designated animal. The priest gains all 
the senses and abilities of the animal, including its hit 
points. Armor Class, and movement rate, and is in 
full command of the animal form. For example, a 
priest could elect to transfer his mind into the body of 
a hawk and fly over an area to determine the terrain, 
occupants, and other conditions. 

While the spell is in effect, the priest's body is 
motionless and vulnerable. The priest is unaware of 
his body or anything that might be happening to it. 
The animal's mind is suppressed throughout the dura 
tion of the spell. 

If the priest's body is killed, the priest's mind is 
stuck in the animal's body until the animal dies or a 
wish is cast to alter the priest's situation. If the animal 
dies while the spell is in effect, the priest suffers 1-12 
points of damage and must make a successful Wisdom 
check or suffer a mild form of insanity for a number of 





102 



rounds equal to the elapsed time of the spell. The 
priest's mind returns to his body. 

The spell can be cast on warm-blooded creatures of 
animal intelligence or less; the creatures do not 
receive a saving throw. Animals of greater intelli 
gence, such as blink dogs, displacer beasts, familiars, 
and other such creatures receive a saving throw versus 
spells. A successful save means the spell was wasted 
and the animal was unaffected. 

Break Limb (Alteration) (Reversible) 


SevewTb-LeveL SpelL 

Faithful Mount (Enchantment/Charm) 

Sphere: Animal/Charm 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M 

Duration: Permanent 

Casting Time: 1 turn 

Area of Effect: Creature touched 

Saving Throw: Negates 


Sphere: Necromantic/Healing 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M 

Duration: Special 

Casting Time: 6 

Area of Effect: Limb touched 

Saving Throw: Negates 

This devastating spell enables the priest to break 
an opponent's arm or leg by touching it. In addition 
to snapping the limb, the spell inflicts 1-10 points of 
damage. If the target makes a successful saving throw 
versus spells, the break does not occur, but the indi 
vidual still suffers 1-10 points of damage from the 
powerful enchantment. 

The effects of the spell vary based on the limb 
touched. For example, if the priest breaks an individ 
ual's weapon arm, that individual cannot wield a 
weapon. If the priest breaks an individual's shield 
arm, the victim cannot use a shield with that limb. If 
the priest breaks a target's leg, the individual cannot 
stand without aid and is reduced to a 3 movement 
rate-crawling or hobbling about on one leg. Break 
ing both legs (two castings) incapacitates the victim. 

The reverse of this spell, mend limb , causes broken 
bones to fuse correctly together. 

A limb broken by this spell only can mended by a 
month of bedrest, a mend limb spell, or a heal spell. 

The material component of this spell is a broken 
bone from any animal. 


Casting this spell places a mount under a powerful 
magic that combines the effects of charm mammal and 
speak with animals. The mount remains loyal to the 
priest who cast the spell, and the two can converse as 
if under a permanent speak with animals spell. 

Further, the mount receives a +3 bonus to fear 
spells and additional charm mammal spells. 

Mounts that can be affected include horses, ponies, 
mules, donkeys, rhinoceri, elephants, griffons, hip- 
pogriffs, pegasi, unicorns, and other animals that can 
be ridden. The mount is allowed a saving throw ver 
sus spell. Success means the animal is not affected by 
the spell, nor can it be affected by subsequent castings 
of the spell by the same priest. 

The material component for the spell is a lump of 
sugar. 

WlZATZb Sp&ll-S 

SecoN)6-Lev>el Spells 

Create Water (Conjuration) (Reversible) 

School: Conjuration 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Permanent 
Casting Time: 2 

Area of Effect: 1 gallon per level of caster 
Saving Throw: None 


This spell allows a wizard to create pure, cool water. 
The water is crystal clear and sparkling; those who 


103 




drink it are certain it is the best water they have 
tasted. 

This enchantment is favored by adventuring wiz 
ards who memorize the spell to ensure that they will 
have drinking water during their journeys. 

The reverse of this spell, destroy water, allows a wiz 
ard to instantly evaporate one gallon of water per 
level of experience. 

Infratorch (Alteration) 

School: Alteration 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, M 

Duration: 1 turn per level of caster 

Casting Time: 2 

Area of Effect: 1 wooden object 
Saving Throw: None 

A wizard casting this spell creates a special torch 
that allows all those within a 15' radius to see as if 
they had infravision. The infravision extends 60 feet 
from the torch. 

The torch does not give off light or heat, and looks 
like nothing more than a burnt-out torch or piece of 
wood. 

Infratorch can be cast only on wooden objects, such 
as staves, torches, sticks, etc. 

The material component for this spell is a piece of 
wood. 


Tfate6-Lev>eL Spell 

Grease Slick (Alteration) 

School: Alteration 

Range: 10 yards 

Components: S, M 

Duration: 2 rounds per level of caster 

Casting Time: 3 

Area of Effect: 15' by 15' area 

Saving Throw: Special 

This variation of the grease spell allows a wizard to 
create a spray of grease that erupts from his fingertips 
and can extend up to 10 yards away from his body. 
The grease coats all objects within a 15' by 15' target 
area. 

Objects coated by the grease become slippery, 
slimy, and subject to the effects of a grease spell. Fur 
ther, characters in the area of effect who are carrying 
weapons and other objects must make a successful 
saving throw vs. spell at a -2 penalty for each object. 
Failure means the object slips from the character's 
grasp. Characters attempting to pick up greased items 
must make a successful saving throw vs. spell at a -3 
penalty to grasp any one object. 

The material component of this spell is a pinch of 
lard. 




104 


Netu 

Magical 

ITems 

ome of the magical items found in 
the depths of Undermountain are 
new, appearing nowhere else in 
AD&D(r) 2nd Edition material. These 
are detailed below for the Dungeon 

MASTER(tm) who wants to augment the magic found in 
the Dungeon Master Guide and Tome of Magic. 

The "XP value" listed for each item is the suggested 
experience points gained by a character who success 
fully creates the item. It is not awarded to individuals 
who simply find or use the item. The "gp value" is a 
recommended guide for DMs who want to establish a 
market value for a particular item. Of course, as with 
any magical item, the price depends on the rarity of 
the item and on finding a buyer. These values should 
be kept secret from characters who are not familiar 
with the items. 

Amulet of Free Passage 

XP value: 300 
gp value: 200 

These amulets were fashioned by Muiral, in one of his 
few lucid moments, to transport opponents to the end 
of his Gauntlet for the final confrontation with him 
self. The rectangular silver amulets are strung on sil 
ver chains, and each bears the inscription "I am the 
only way out" in Drow (so that they appear to have 
been left here by the former inhabitants). They radi 
ate faintly of magic if same is detected for. 

When an amulet of free passage is placed around a 
person's neck, Muiral becomes aware of that individ 
ual's presence in his Gauntlet, and begins to observe 
the individual's movements and activities through 













his crystal ball. Once Muiral has determined that all 
of the adventurers in a particular party are wearing 
his amulets, he activates his mirrored gates, which 
are scattered throughout the complex. The first gate 
the party passes after that point draws them in and 
teleports them all to the second portion of the 
Gauntlet (rooms 72-88). Roll ld6 and consult the 
table below to see where the party appears. 

Roll Location 

1 Room 72*a 

2 Room 74*b 

3 Room 75*c 

4 Room 75*d 

5 Room 75*e 

6 Room 88*f 


Arrow of Pain 

XP value: 60 (each) 
gp value: 180 (each) 

These arrows look much like arrows of healing. 
However, close scrutiny reveals razor-sharp, toothy- 
edged arrowheads. A creature struck by an arrow of 
pain suffers ld6 points of damage, making it appear 
no different from other arrows. However, if the 
arrow remains imbedded in the creature, that crea 
ture suffers 1-4 points of additional damage for the 
subsequent 3 rounds. 

A typical treasure holds 2-16 (2d8) arrows of pain. 

Belt of the Beast 


The teleportation is a terrifying experience for the 
adventurers, beginning with a hideous transforma 
tion of their reflected forms into monsters, and end 
ing with a blinding and disorienting flash. 

Arrow of Healing 

XP value: 60 (each) 
gp value: 120 (each) 

These finely-made arrows are rare and believed to 
have been crafted by a sect of priests long dead. The 
shaft of an arrow of healing is a simple smooth piece 
of wood. The fletching is usually very colorful - 
bright greens, blues, and reds-possibly the feathers 
of parrots. The arrowhead is chipped slate en 
chanted with a powerful healing spell. 

When the arrowhead is imbedded into a target, 
whether by firing the arrow at the target or thrusting 
it as a spear or dagger, the arrow causes 1 point of 
damage. However, once imbedded, the arrowhead 
releases a curative spell that heals 2-20 (2dl0) 
points of damage. The arrowhead is consumed by 
the spell, and the shaft can be easily removed. 

Sages speculate these arrows were fired at fighters 
who were wounded in battle, helping them to stay in 
the front ranks longer. 

A typical treasure holds 1-6 arrows of healing. 


XP value: 3,000 
gp value: 30,000 

Created by high-ranking priests of Malar and 
bestowed upon their favored followers, belts of the 
beast allow their wearers to gain one animal at 
tribute. These belts are made of preserved animal 
skin, the kind of skin dictating the belt's powers. 
Further, the belts are embossed with the images of 
animals. Usually, the image portrayed gives some 
hint of the belt's purpose. A dozen different belts 
have been found, and more are believed to exist. 
Roll ldl2 and consult the following table to deter 
mine the function of the belt of the beast discovered. 

1. (Monkey skin) Climbing. The wearer can climb 
like a monkey, gaining a thief's climb walls ability at 
75% and climb trees at 90%. 

2. (Shark skin) Swimming. The wearer gains the 
nonweapon Swimming proficiency at a score of 18, 
and swims as well as a shark. If the wearer already 
has the Swimming proficiency, the score increases to 
20 . 

3. (Lynx skin) Cat's feet. The wearer will land on 
his feet whenever he falls and will suffer the mini 
mum amount of damage possible. 

4. (Owl skin and feathers) Night vision. The 
wearer gains the vision of an owl, seeing in darkness 



up to 120'. This does not confer infravision. 

5. (Wolf skin) Tracking. The wearer gains the 
nonweapon Tracking proficiency at a score of 18. If 
the wearer already has the Tracking proficiency, the 
score increases to 20. 

6. (Monkey skin) Monkey agility. The wearer adds 
1 point to his Dexterity while wearing the belt. 

7. (Chameleon skin) The wearer can change his 
coloration at will to match the background, render 
ing him nearly invisible. Observers have only a 20% 
chance to notice him while he is stationary, a 50% 
chance if he is moving. 

8. (Hawk skin and feathers) Flight. The wearer 
can fly like a hawk, with feathery brown wings 
extending from his back. The belt grants the wearer 
flight, MV 24 (C), for up to three hours a day (con 
secutive or otherwise). 

9. (Crab shell plates) Crustacean armor. The 
wearer of this belt has a red tint to his skin. While 
the belt is worn, his skin remains hard like the shell 
of a crab, although it is pliable so he can walk and 
move normally. This grants him a natural AC of 5. 

10. (Porcupine skin and quills) Once each day, a 
bevy of quills sprouts from the wearer's arms - 
regardless of what he is wearing. The quills magi 
cally appear through cloth, armor, or enchanted 
garments. The wearer can fire these quills in up to 
six bursts, one a round, with each burst having 20 
quills. The wearer must make an attack roll; a suc 
cessful hit causes the quills to become imbedded in a 
target. The target suffers 20 points of damage, save 
vs. paralyzation for half damage. A successful save 
assumes the target was able to dodge some of the 
quills. 

11. (Bat skin) Bat radar. The wearer gains an abil 
ity that allows him to move about in darkness by 
detecting where walls and other objects are. 

12. (Bear skin) Bear existence. The wearer is able 
to fish and forage as well as a bear. This belt grants 
the wearer the nonweapon proficiencies of Fishing 
and Foraging, each at a score of 17. 


Bowstring of Accuracy 

XP value: 250 
gp value: 2,000 

By attaching this magical string to either a magi 
cal or nonmagical longbow or short bow, the wielder 
is able to transform normal arrows fired from the 
bow into arroivs +1. Bowstrings of accuracy are 
found with 10-100 charges (lOdlO). Each time an 
arrow is fired, a charge is expended, and the arrow 
becomes +1. Arrows that are already magical gain 
an additional plus when fired from the bow. 

Bracers of Revelation 


XP value: 350 
gp value: 9,000 

An individual wearing these highly-polished 
bands can tell much about those he meets. By shak 
ing the hand of another person and expending a 
charge by force of will, the wearer can determine the 
class or occupation of the person. By expending two 
charges, the wearer can determine the individual's 
alignment. The bracers will reveal no information if 
the target is wearing an amulet of proof against detec 
tion or is cloaked by similar magic. The bracers are 
usually found with 4-40 (4dl0) charges and can be 
recharged. 

The bracers glow the following colors based upon 
the target's alignment: 


Green 

Blue 

Red 

Pink 

White 

Gray 

Black 

Orange 


Lawful Good 
Lawful Evil 
Chaotic Good 
Chaotic Evil 
Neutral Good 
Neutral Evil 
Chaotic Neutral 
Neutral 







107 



Cloak of Malar 

XP value: 4,500 
gp value: 45,000 

These rare and powerful cloaks are prized by 
priests of Malar. They often are made of animal skin, 
such as tiger, lion, or jaguar. All of the cloaks are 
enchanted with a variation of a polymorph self spell. 
The individual wearing a cloak of Malar is able to 
transform into the animal whose skin is represented 
by the cloak. For example, a cloak which looks like 
it was made from the pelt of a black panther would 
allow its wearer to transform into a black panther. 

The cloak permits three transformations per day, 
with each transformation lasting up to one hour. 
The wearer can end the transformation earlier by 
willing it. All items carried by the wearer meld into 
the animal form. The wearer gains the abilities of 
the animal, but retains his or her Intelligence and 
Wisdom. Further, the wearer retains his or her 
Armor Class, but gains no other benefits of magical 
items in his or her possession. 

Comb of Beauty 

XP value: 300 
gp value: 3,000 


cream over a patch of exposed living or dead flesh 
releases the magic. Individuals using the cream shed 
the effects of one year of aging per application. Only 
one application of cream can be used per day. 

The cream, derived from potions of longevity, is 
sought by wealthy women, adventurers who have 
succumbed to unnatural aging, and powerful undead. 
When applied to undead flesh, the cream magically 
keeps the skin from deteriorating, thus allowing 
liches and other creatures to frequently pass for liv 
ing beings. One such application of cream on 
undead will preserve the skin for three months. 
Powerful undead have been rumored to keep dozens 
of jars of the cream so they can remain as lifelike as 
they were before they died. 

Decanter of Salt Water 

XP value: 250 
gp value: 4,000 

This magical one-quart skin turns any liquid 
placed inside it into salt water. This includes 
potions, which lose all magical properties, poisons, 
tainted or fetid water, wines, ales, etc. The waterskin 
functions up to eight times a day. 

Earring of Deception 


Typically worn only by women, a comb of beauty 
appears as an ornate hair ornament, often decorated 
with pearls or small gems. Fastening the comb to the 
hair releases the magic. The wearer's hair is trans 
formed into a flowing, curly mass that extends to his 
or her waist. The hair is perfectly styled, will never 
tangle, and is always clean. Further, the comb 
increases the wearer's Charisma by 2. 

Cream of Long Years 

XP value: 400 (per full jar) 
gp value: 40,000 (per full jar) 


XP value: 500 
gp value: 35,000 

Appearing as nothing more than a simple gold 
ring, an earring of deception is a powerful magical 
item that prevents others from knowing if its wearer 
is telling a lie. The earring functions when it is 
looped through an earlobe. Even characters who cast 
detect lie spells, ESP, and other enchantments are 
convinced that whatever the wearer of the earring 
says is truthful. The earring functions continuously 
and only faintly radiates magic if a detect magic spell 
is cast. 


Found in jars with six applications, this cream is a 
thick mixture that is pasty and lumpy. Rubbing the 



108 



Gauntlet of Evertorch 

XP value: 700 
gp value: 2500 

This looks like an ordinary leather gauntlet, well 
made. The wearer can keep any torch or fire source 
burning for as long as the torch is held by the 
gauntleted hand. This magic will work on anything 
from as small as a match or candle to as large as a 
burning pole. It will not work on enclosed flames, 
such as lanterns or lamps. Note that it will in no 
way increase the size of the fire or the volume of 
light shed by the flame, simply the duration of the 
fire. 

The gauntlet will also prevent the wearer from 
being burned by the fire source held in the gauntlet. 
It offers no protection against any other fire, or any 
fire- or heat-based attack. 

Ghost Bane 

XP value: 250 (each use) 
gp value: 8,000 (each use) 

Usually found in small jars or vials, ghost bane is a 
rare magical powder valued highly by adventurers 
and necromancers. When mixed with water and 
consumed, it protects the imbiber for 24 hours from 
being aged by a ghost. It is sought after by those who 
specialize in fighting undead. 

Girdle of the Frog 

XP value: 400 
gp value: 7,000 

Although this item has a rather comical name, it 
is a much valued magical belt useable by any class. 
The wearer of a girdle of the frog gains the Swimming 
nonweapon proficiency (16). In addition, the wearer 
can hop up to his movement rate across in feet, 
clearing any object up to one-third their movement 
rate high per round. For example, if the wearer has a 
movement rate of 12, he can hop 12 feet in a single 


jump, rising four feet in the air while doing so. The 
wearer can attack in mid-leap or at the end of his 
leap. 

Horned Ring 

XP value: 3000 
gp value: 35,000 

These iron rings, virtually unique to Undermoun- 
tain, were created by Halaster to enable the wearers 
to teleport at will within the dungeons of Under 
mountain. The wearers can choose the location to 
which they are transported, and can thus take 
advantage of the many levels and gates of the 
region. The rings also break all wizard locks, walls of 
force, holds, webs, and similar magical barriers 
(excluding prismatic wall and prismatic sphere) on 
contact, without harm to the wearer. A horned ring 
absorbs magic missiles and all electrically-based spells 
and natural effects, and uses this energy to renew its 
power (again without harm to the wearer). 

These rings, of which only eight are known to 
exist, are recognized by the pair of tiny horns that 
curve back toward the wearer's hand. 

Lion's Tooth 

XP value: 600 
gp value: 14,000 

This rare weapon looks like the fang from a saber- 
toothed lion or tiger fixed onto a hilt. Although the 
weapon does not appear sharp, it is treated as a knife 
+3. 

The most useful property of the dagger comes into 
play when its wielder pulls one of his or her teeth 
and touches the dagger to the hole. The weapon 
transforms into a tooth and takes the place of the 
one that was pulled, making it a concealed weapon 
that is almost impossible to find. When the tooth is 
touched, it comes loose and turns into the knife. 





Mace of Faith 


Ribbons of Talutah 


XP value: 1,000 
gp value: 18,000 


XP value: 100 each 
gp value: 700 each 


These +2 weapons are finely crafted, and their 
hafts are usually made of carved and polished wood. 
However, in the hands of someone with an align 
ment that matches the mace, the weapon is +3. Fur 
ther, if the wielder of the mace of faith is a priest, the 
mace can cast the following spells upon its wielder 
once a day, provided the priest is of the same align 
ment: bless, cure serious wounds, cure disease and neu 
tralize poison. The spells cannot be cast on other 
individuals. Roll ld8 and consult the following 
chart to determine the alignment of the mace dis 
covered. True neutral maces are not believed to 
exist. The maces can be used by any class. 

1 Lawful Good 2 Lawful Neutral 

3 Lawful Evil 4 Neutral Good 

5 Chaotic Evil 6 Neutral Evil 

7 Chaotic Good 8 Chaotic Neutral 


Phylactery of Priesthood 

XP value: 2,000 
gp value: 22,000 

This cloth armband is embroidered with symbols 
and runes and does not radiate magic. Useable only 
by priests, the armband allows its wearer to select 
three spells a day that will have maximum effect. For 
example, a curative spell would heal the maximum 
amount possible, or a flame strike would cause 48 
points of damage. The color of the cloth determines 
the spheres the priest can call upon for maximum 
effect. Multiple phylacteries can be worn. 


Blue: 

Red: 

Green: 

Orange: 

Gold: 

Silver: 


Animal, Plant, Weather 
Sun, Astral, Summoning 
Healing, All, Combat 
Charm, Guardian 
Divination, Elemental 
Necromancy, Protection 


Created by the eccentric wood elf sorceress/priest 
Talutah, these colorful, magical hair ribbons are 
one-half inch wide and two feet long and are usually 
made of silk or satin. The ribbons must be worn, and 
a bow or knot tied in each one, for their magic to be 
effective. Each color symbolizes a different function, 
and more than one ribbon can be worn. When a rib 
bon's magic has been used, the ribbon unties itself, 
flutters to the ground, and disappears. 

Pale green: Casts a cure serious wounds spell on its 
wearer if the wearer falls to 0 or fewer hit points. 

Bright blue: Casts a neutralize poison spell if its 
wearer succumbs to the effects of poison. 

Scarlet: Absorbs 15 points of magic missile damage. 

Tan: At the wearer's request, the ribbon recalls 
into its wearer's memory any single spell of 3rd level 
or lower. 

Lemon yellow: Casts a cure disease spell if its 
wearer succumbs to a disease. 

Violet: Grants its wearer a saving throw versus a 
spell that would not otherwise allow a saving throw. 

White: Negates a silence spell that is cast on or 
within 15' of the wearer. 

Peach: Absorbs 15 points of magical or nonmagi- 
cal fire damage. 

Black: Releases a feather fall spell if the wearer 
falls more than 10'. 

Pink: Protects the wearer from one level drain. 

Forest green: The ribbon causes the first saving 
throw vs. spells its wearer must make to be success 
ful. 

Gray: Protects the wearer from 15 points of magi 
cal cold damage. 


Ring of Might 

XP value: 250 
gp value: 10,000 

Created ages ago by powerful specialty priests of 
Tyr, these simple-looking magical bands engraved 
with the symbol of Tyr's hammer are useable only by 
priests. A priest who successfully strikes a target with 
his fist causes 1-8 points of damage and magically 
marks the target with the small imprint of a ham 
mer. The ring must be on the hand that does the 
striking. Strength bonuses can be added to the dam 
age inflicted by the ring. 

Ring of the Rat 

XP value: 600 
gp value: 3,000 

Rings of the rat are simple iron bands, sometimes 
adorned with chipped stones, such as turquoise, 
jade, or quartz. Individuals who place the ring on a 
finger instantly become aware of the ring's powers. 
Their teeth become sharp and pointed, and their 
fingernails long and edged, lowering their Charisma 
by 3. The wearer can attack with each clawed hand, 
once a round, causing 1-4 points of damage per suc 
cessful hit. Or, the wearer can bite, causing 1-4. 
points of damage. Creatures bitten must save versus 
poison or contract a debilitating disease. 

In addition, once each day the wearer can sum 
mon 2-20 (2dl0) common rats or 1-6 giant rats. 
The rats have full hit points and obey the com 
mands of the ring's wearer for three turns. Then they 
disappear. 

A ring of the rat cannot be removed unless a 
remove curse, limited wish, or wish is cast on the 
wearer, or the wearer dies. 


Scabbard of Enchantment 

XP value: 800 
gp value: 7,000 

These magical scabbards, believed to be created 
by an order of wizard-fighters devoted to Torm, are 
tooled leather embossed with gold leaf. When a 
nonmagical sword is sheathed in the scabbard and 
resides inside the magical leather, it temporarily 
gains a +1 enchantment based on the number of 
rounds it was sheathed. For example, a sword 
sheathed for 3 rounds will act as a +1 sword for 3 
rounds. The maximum amount of time a sword will 
remain magical is 2 turns. 

After unsheathing the blade, it will function as a 
sivord +1 -and will detect as magical-for the indi 
cated time. The sheath will magically adjust to fit 
practically any blade, from a short sword to a two- 
handed sword. Normal swords temporarily en 
chanted by the scabbard can be effectively used 
against creatures that only can be struck by magical 
weapons. 

The scabbard also can be used on magical swords. 
Such a sword sheathed for 3 rounds gains an addi 
tional +1 for the following turn. 

A scabbard of enchantment will function three 
times a day. 

Staff of Strength 

XP value: 1,000 
gp value: 9,000 

Useable only by wizards, priests, and bards, a staff 
of strength increases its wielder's Strength by 1 while 
it is held. It is rumored some staffs increase their 
wielder's Strength by 2. All staves of strength also 
function as a +2 weapon. 


Ill 


Vest of Health 


XP value: 700 
gp value: 12,000 



A finely sewn garment of colorful cloth, this vest 
functions only for unarmored individuals. Each day 
the vest absorbs 24 points of damage directed at the 
wearer. This includes damage from physical and 
magical attacks. However, it does not protect the 
wearer from poisons or gasses. These vests are highly 
prized by thieves and wizards. 

If the wearer suffers more than 30 points of dam 
age while he or she has the vest on, the vest must 
make a successful saving throw vs. spells or be 
destroyed. 

Trobriand's Wand of Rejecting 

XP value: 1,000 
gp value: 8,000 

A finely carved stick of ivory decorated with tiny 
inset pearls, this wand is valued as a magical item as 
well as a bauble. 

A wand of rejecting begins with 100 charges, and 
the item is keyed to a specific location. The majority 
of these wands are keyed to Trobriand's Graveyard; 
however, others are believed to be keyed to places in 
Waterdeep and elsewhere. 

By expending a charge, speaking the wand's com 
mand word, and touching the target creature or 
individual, the target is transported to the keyed 
area. The wand will not transport victims into solid 
material. 








Wand of Woodland Wonder 

XP value: 500 
gp value: 12,000 

A variation on the wand of wonder, the wand of 
woodland wonder is closely tied to nature. Often 
overlooked, the wand appears to be nothing more 


than a twig or sprig of mistletoe. By expending a 
charge and speaking the command word, the wielder 
rolls percentile dice and consults the chart below for 
the wand's effect. Although useable by any class, 
such a wand is most effective in the hands of a 
druid. A druid can call for a specific effect from the 
wand. A wand of woodland wonder is typically found 
with 10-100 (lOdlO) charges. 


D100 

Roll Effect 

10- 10 Wand transforms into a staff+1 for the following 5 rounds. 

11- 18 Target is healed for 1-8 hit points. 

19-25 Target is polymorphed into a rabbit for the following 2 turns. A successful saving throw ver 
sus spells negates the effect. 

26-30 Target is polymorphed into a tree for the following 2 turns. A successful saving throw versus 
spells negates the effect. 

31-33 Charm person or mammal spell is cast on target. 

34-36 Entangle is cast on target. 

37-46 Faerie fire is cast on target. 

47-49 Heat metal is cast on target. 

50-53 Rain falls on target for 1 turn. 

54-58 Heat metal is cast on wielder. 

59-62 A blueberry bush, three feet high, three feet wide, and three feet deep grows in front of tar 
get. The bush is filled with lucious, ripe blueberries. 

63-65 Barkskin spell is cast on target. 

66-69 Target sprouts leaves from all exposed skin. Leaves remain for 1 turn, worsening target's 
attack rolls and initiative rolls by 1. 

70-79 Lightning strikes target, causing 6d6 points of damage, save for half damage. 

80-84 Lightning strikes wielder, causing 6d6 points of damage, save for half damage. 

85-87 Invisibility to animals is cast on the wand's wielder. The spell's duration is 1 turn, 4 rounds. 

88-90 Target is covered by hundreds of crawling, biting ants. Target suffers ld4 points of damage 

for 4 rounds and is -1 on all attack and damage rolls. 

91-97 A dig spell is cast on the ground under the wielder's feet, creating a 10-cubic-foot hole. The 
wielder and those standing near him fall into the hole and suffer ld6 points of damage. 

98-100 A dig spell is cast on the ground under the target's feet, creating a 10-cubic-foot hole. The 
wielder and those standing near him fall into the hole and suffer ld6 points of damage. 


113 



NPCs of the 
Deep Levels 


B his section details many of the 
important and/or dangerous indi 
viduals player characters can meet 
while traveling in Halaster's home. 
Halaster, himself, is presented in 
the Ruins of Undermountain boxed set. He is not 
included in this section of the massive dungeon, as 
player characters should not encounter him on these 
levels. 

Player characters can encounter these NPCs in 
various areas within the four levels of Undermountain. 
II and within the other levels if you have access to 
the Ruins of Undermountain boxed set. The NPC 
backgrounds list some of the places these characters 
often can be found. In addition, if player characters 
perform noisy acts or raise a ruckus that attracts 
undue attention to themselves, one or more of these 
NPCs is likely to search them out and either help 
them, do them in, or chase them from Undermoun 
tain. 

Arlen of the Swiftstrike: CN em F9/W10/P9/T11: 
AC -1; MV 12; hps 81; THACO 12; #AT 3/2; Dmg 
by spell or weapon type; 1-3 (quarrel from hand 
crossbow), 1-8 + variable (long sword of dancing), 
1-6+3 (flail +3); STR 18/20, INT 16, WIS 15, DEX 
18, CON 16, CHR 14. Spells: see below. 

A relative newcomer to Undermountain, Arlen 
moved in four years ago to avoid prosecution by the 
Waterdeep authorities. He was spotted assassinating 
a local baron and knew if he did not make good his 
escape he would swiftly dangle from a rope. He 
feared they could use spells to see through any of his 
disguises. He has recently begun making occasional 
trips to the city-for profit and to keep his skills in 
peak condition. He hopes enough time has gone by 


that he is no longer being actively hunted and that 
the wanted posters bearing his face are only a mem 
ory. 

The vagabond elf, who considers himself a jack-of- 
all-trades, thrives in the Deep Levels of Undermoun 
tain. Living in Skullport, he spends hours upon hours 
hatching elaborate scams to ply against the nobles, 
merchants, and officials of Waterdeep. A consum 
mate con artist, Arlen enjoys the thrill of a successful 
con more than the financial gain it nets him - 
although the gain is usually considerable. It matters 
little to him whether the con is perpetrated against 
those in Waterdeep or adventurers traveling in Hal 
aster's dungeon. 

He has romanced wealthy women, passed himself 
off as a traveling jeweler, convinced crowds that he 
has a magical cure-all for sale, and has concocted a 
variety of guises and stories that have bilked money 
from unsuspecting Waterdhavians; Of course, Arlen 
has been known to spend several weeks at a time 
underground, especially when he fears conditions are 
too "hot" above ground or if he spotted a familiar 
Guardsman's face. During this time, the master of 
disguise works at creating more disguises and magical 
potions to aid in pulling off his assorted "jobs." 

Player characters are likely to encounter Arlen 
anywhere in Undermountain. He will not fight 
them, unless seriously threatened. Rather, he will try 
to scam them, acting the part of an escaped slave or 
lost adventurer. When he has convinced the PCs of 
his "role," he will pick a few choice pockets and 
vanish into the shadows of Undermountain-to cre 
ate a new disguise and attempt to scam them again 
later. 

Arlen has the nonweapon proficiencies Disguise 
(19), Ventriloquism (18) Appraising (19), Tumbling 
(19), and Jumping (20). 



Much of Arlen's wealth is scattered in little niches 
about Undermountain. However, he keeps 2,500 gp, 
1,200 sp, 300 cp and 100 pp in a hidden niche near 
Spike's home. Several packets of dust of disappearance 
and dust of tracelessness also are stored there. His 
room at Skullport is filled with an assortment of male 
and female clothes, make-up, wigs, costume jewelry, 
walking sticks, boots, and other objects to help him 
pull of his disguise acts. Arlen always wears and car 
ries his: cloak of protection +3, zoom leather armor +2, 
boots of elvenkind, long sword of dancing, bag of holding 
(30 cubic feet), and three packets of dust of disappear 
ance. 

Arlen has the following wizard spells: 4, 4, 3, 2, 2. 
He usually memorizes change self chill touch, grease, 
spider climb, Melf s acid arrow, mirror image, Tasha's 
uncontrollable hideous laughter, web, suggestion, vam- 
piric touch, wind wall, phantasmal killer, polymorph self, 
chaos, feeblemind. 

He has the following priest spells: 6, 5, 3, 2, 1, 
with major access to the spheres of All, Charm, 
Combat, Divination, Protection, and minor access to 
the spheres of Healing and Guardian. He usually car 
ries: cure light wounds x3, detect magic, curse, hold per 
son, chant, spiritual hammer, silence 15' radius, 
withdraw, prayer, speak with dead, dispel magic, detect 
lie, spell immunity, flamestrike. 

Benita Darkwind: CE hf P17: AC -2; MV 12; hps 
79; THAC0 10; #AT 2 or 1; Dmg by spell or weapon 
type; 1-6+1/1-6+1 (claws of Malar) or 1-6+4 (foot 
man's mace +3); STR 17, INT 17, WIS 17, DEX 19, 
CON 18, CHR 15. Spells: see below. 

A graceful young woman who hides her years behind 
potions of longevity, Benita is the head priestess of 
Malar in Undermountain. A specialty priestess, she 
carries herself like royalty, but wears only simple 
robes and jewelry. Benita believes there are far more 
important things to attend to than one's personal 
appearance. Still, she is always cleaned and groomed, 
and turns many male heads in the dungeon. 

The priestess is thoroughly devoted to her deity 
and spends every waking hour either praying, study 
ing animals, working with the lesser priests on 



spreading Malar's influence in the Realms, or hunt 
ing adventurers. The latter is the priestess' favorite 
activity, and she allows no lesser priests to accom 
pany her. The kill must be hers alone. Benita is 
accepted and respected by nearly all of the other 
Malar priests in Undermountain. She senses that 
Mai is jealous of her position, and she flaunts her 
power in front of him at every opportunity. She is 
oblivious to his plans to dispose of her. 

Benita rose in power in the Malar cult from the 
areas around Waterdeep. However, pressure from the 
rural goodly-aligned clerics, who she suspects killed 
the high Malar priest, and city officials who did not 
like the obvious presence of an evil cult, drove her 
from the city. Little do the officials know that she 
and her cult are right below their feet, gaining in 
power and spell-casting ability. 

It was by accident that the priestess discovered 
Undermountain. Unknowingly stepping through one 
of the magical gates, she found herself swimming in 
the middle of the underground river. It took her days 
of exploring before she realized where she was, and 
days more before she found a way out. She goes 
above ground now only rarely, as she believes she 
better serves Malar by working with priests under 
ground. Her favorite gate is the pool near Wyllow- 
wood, which leads to Heroes' Garden in Waterdeep. 

The high priestess can be encountered in the 
Malar temple and nearby chambers, and in the 
underground forest. Benita is careful not to anger the 
druidess there, who she believes could turn the 
woods against her. Traditionally, druids have gone 
out of their way to destroy Malar strongholds. Benita 
grudgingly accords her a small part of the forest in 
respect for her nature powers. However, the high 
priestess considers the druidess fair game if she goes 
beyond the forest into other areas of the dungeon. 

Still, Benita makes it a point to visit weekly with 
the druidess and discuss the animals and plants of the 
underground. The priestess occasionally charms a 
forest creature so she can use it to relay information 
about happenings in the forest and the druidess's 
activities. Benita has decided if the druidess ever 
regains her sanity, the cult must kill her before she 
can gather her animal forces and destroy the cult's 



115 



underground stronghold. 

Benita has few valuables, as she devotes all of her 
wealth to funding her priests' expeditions to outlying 
aboveground communities. What wealth she has, 
about 400 gp, is stored in her private chamber near 
the temple. She wears and carries all her magical 
items when she travels about Undermountain: elven 
chainmail+2, footman's mace +3, phylactery of faithful 
ness, and a belt of the monkey (Climbing). Her prized 
possessions are her claws of Malar. 

A trio of giant boars, magically altered to be espe 
cially tough and strong, accompanies Benita at all 
times. One of Benita's favorite combat tactics is to 
cast animal growth on her boars and direct them to 
fight. 

PCs who encounter Benita will not find her ini 
tially hostile. The priestess is always open-minded 
about attracting new followers to Malar. Potential 
converts are not "game," as the high priestess holds 
spreading her religion more important than the joys 
of the hunt. However, those who do not seem sympa 
thetic become her targets, and she will personally 
hunt them down relentlessly-or notify lesser priests 
of their presence if the trespassers seem too weak to 
pose a challenge. 

Benita has the following spells: 9, 9, 8, 7, 5, 3, 2, 
with major access to the spheres of All, Animal, 
Healing, Plant, Summoning, Sun, and Weather, and 
minor access to the spheres of Divination, Elemental, 
and Protection. She usually carries these spells: bless, 
animal friendship *2, invisibility to animals, cure light 
wounds x4, create water, augury, find traps, speak with 
animals *3, messenger, chant, spiritual hammer, slow 
poison, hold animal, hold metal *2, summon insects *2, 
prayer, speak with dead *2, repel insects, produce fire, 
cure serious wounds ><3, cause serious wounds *2, ani 
mal growth *3, cure critical wounds *2, break limb, 
heal, harm, stone tell, animate rock. 

As a specialty priest of Malar, she has a 98% 
chance to accurately identify plants, animals, and 
pure water. In addition, she is immune to the effects 
of charm spells cast by woodland creatures. 

Giant Boars (3): Int Animal; AL Nil; AC 3; MV 
12; HD 8; hps 64 each; THACO 12; #AT 1; Dmg 


3-18; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ M (5' tall at 
shoulder); ML 11; XP 650 each. 

Crissann: LE hf W7: AC 3; MV 12; hps 35; THACO 
18; #AT 1; Dmg by spell or weapon type; 1-6+2 (staff 
+2), 1-4+1 (dagger +1); STR 11 (12), INT 18, WIS 
13, DEX 18, CON 18, CHR 16 (19). Spells: see 
below. 

Crissann is the sole survivor of an evil adventuring 
band that was ordered by Zulkir Szass Tam, a power 
ful Red Wizard of Thay, to journey into the under 
ground forest in search of Halaster's treasure. All but 
Crissann died at the hands of Wyllow and the green 
dragon. The deranged druidess charmed Crissann, 
and the wizard served the druidess for several months 
before the effects of the charm spell wore off. 
Crissann elected to stay in Undermountain, which 
she had grown accustomed to. She fears returning to 
the surface and encountering the Red Wizard who 
hired her. A she has learned there is profit to be 
made from the foolish adventurers who travel the 
deep ways. 

Crissann is only encountered in Wyllowwood. Her 
home is in the forest, in a small hut high in a willow 
tree that the druidess helped her construct. She 
spends her days wandering about the forest and the 
other chambers in this level in the company of a 
quartet of massive ogres. They prey upon adventurers 
who have been injured by other denizens of Under 
mountain. 

Crissann desires to gain enough power and magic 
to get the attention of Halaster. She hopes to be 
taken on as an apprentice and become powerful 
enough to return to the surface without fear of the 
Red Wizard. Her spellbooks are kept in her treehouse 
home, as are a variety of potions and other personal 
possessions. When traveling about Undermountain, 
she always has her ring of protection +1, comb of 
beauty (adds +3 to Charisma), cloak of protection +2, 
staff+2 (staff of strength), dagger +1, collar of ogre con 
trol, potion of rainbow hues, potion of invisibility, potion 
of flying, potion of extra-healing, and potion of fire resis 
tance. Nearly all of Crissann's potions were taken 
from defeated adventurers. 







Crissann's spells are 5, 4, 3, 2. When traveling 
about Undermountain, she usually memorizes magic 
missile, wall of fog, chill touch, color spray, detect magic, 
spectral hand, continual light, darkness 1.5' radius, fog 
cloud, feign death, vampire touch, protection from nor 
mal missiles, contagion, polymorph self. 

Ogres (4): Int Low; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; HD 
4+1; hps 33 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10; 
SA Nil; SD Nil MR Nil; SZ L (10' tall); ML 12; XP 
175 each. 

Dulic: CE hm P8: AC 0; MV 12; hps 43; THACO 
16; #AT 2; Dmg by spell or weapon type; 1-4+1/ 
2-4+1 (claws of Malar); STR 17, INT 17, WIS 13, 
DEX 18, CON 15, CHR 14. Spells: see below. 

Dulic is the eldest son of one of Waterdeep's famed 
law enforcers. Sir Henryck Vedar. However, Dulic 
was never much for following laws or for following in 
his father's footsteps. From an early age he was fasci 
nated by clerical magic and took every opportunity 


to chat with priests of various religions. The priests 
of Malar gave him the most attention and encour 
aged him to join their ranks. Dulic soon found him 
self entrenched in the evil religion, and he coaxed 
his younger half-brother, Wachiru, to follow his path 
as well. 

The brothers admire Benita and work to please 
her. Dulic believes serving the high priestess is the 
best way to gain influence in the cult. Further, he 
believes she will show him more and more spells of 
increasing difficulty and power and thus bring him 
closer to understanding all the intricacies of the 
Malar religion. 

Dulic is patient, thorough, and a steadfast believer 
in Malar the Beastlord and the practices of his 
priests. The brawny priest is confident Malar will one 
day become the dominant deity in the Realms, 
though likely not in his lifetime. 

He has not been above ground in more than two 
years. He is satisfied with life in Undermountain and 
devotes his time to strengthening the cult, hunting 
trespassers, and learning from Benita. Dulic and his 





117 



brother can be found on any level of Undermoun 
tain, traveling about in search of new and unusual 
beasts and potential new followers of Malar. Dulic 
and his brother spend only one week a month in the 
underground forest. Dulic knows full well that druids 
are enemies of Malar priests. He is uncertain why 
Benita allows the mad druidess to live. However, he 
respects the high priestess's orders that the druidess 
be left alone. Like Benita, Dulic has little personal 
wealth, only 300 gp, which he keeps in the priests' 
quarters. 

While wandering in Undermountain he wears and 
carries all of his magical items: chainmail +1, phylac 
tery of long years, cloak of Malar (lion), and a stone of 
good luck. 

Dulic has the following spells: 3, 3, 3, 2, with 
major access to the spheres of All, Animal, Healing, 
Plant, Summoning, Sun, Weather, and minor access 
to the spheres of Divination, Elemental, and Protec 
tion. He usually carries the following spells: bless, 
cure light wounds *2, spiritual hammer, heat metal x2, 
protection from fire, hold metal, water walk, cause seri 
ous wounds, cure serious wounds. 

Dulic and Wachiru typically have 5-8 (ld4+4) 
fighters of 4th-6th levels with them. These fighters 
are loyal to Malar and protect the priests. 

Ezzat, Lich: Int Supra-genius; AL NG; AC 0; MV 6; 
HD 15; hps 75; THACO 10; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10; SA 
spells; SD + 1 or better weapon to hit; MR Nil; SZ M 
(6' tall); ML 17; XP 9,000. 

Many hundreds of years ago, Ezzat, a Netherese 
mage, had the opportunity to become an apprentice 
to Halaster. At the time, the elven Ezzat was corrupt 
and self-serving. However, a relationship with a 
human priestess of Lliira lightened his soul, and the 
wizard cut off all dealings with Halaster. However, 
through the years, Ezzat followed the tales of Hal 
aster's exploits and became more and more con 
vinced he must do something to stop his former 
associate. When the priestess died of old age, Ezzat 
directed all of his energies to finding Halaster. 

Eventually, those efforts paid off and the elf 
learned the Mad Wizard was beneath Waterdeep, 


constructing an elaborate underground tunnel sys 
tem. By this time Ezzat was aged and had no hope of 
defeating a human who was rumored to have gained 
immortality. The frail wizard used all the magic left 
at his command to turn himself into a lich, an act he 
was certain would buy him time to wear away at Hal- 
aster's defenses. 

Moving underground, Ezzat eventually found the 
deep ways, the underground forest, and the caverns 
and chambers that made up Halaster's domain. Still, 
the lich could not locate the Mad Wizard. From time 
to time Halaster sends magical messages to the lich, 
taunting him. The Mad Wizard has yet to confront 
Ezzat. 

Ezzat calls no chamber home beneath Waterdeep; 
however, he has been known to reside in unoccupied 
caverns for up to a month at a time. During these 
sojourns he works on magical mixtures and devices 
he hopes to use against Halaster. He recently discov 
ered a magical cream (detailed in the "New Magical 
Items" section) that keeps his skin from deteriorat 
ing. He uses this to look less frightening. 

Adventurers wandering in Undermountain could 
find an ally in the lich - provided they do not attack 
him because of his undead state. Ezzat will aid no 
individuals who menace or attack him. However, he 
is willing to assist all those who are able to look past 
appearances and talk before drawing their swords. 

If a band of player characters encounters Ezzat - 
and do not attack him, he will be cordial. He warns 
them to be careful where they travel in the deep 
ways. Ezzat knows of the two dragons, the Malar 
priests, and of the insane druidess (who he has been 
unable to cure). He is uncertain where the temple to 
Malar is, though he is certain it is hidden and cannot 
be far from the forest. 

If the adventurers are injured, he will use his 
spells to help protect them and get them to a safe 
place to rest and heal. Although the lich is willing 
to discuss all the rumors of Halaster and the dun 
geon, he will not tarry too long with outsiders. His 
mission is to find Halaster, and he believes he must 
do this alone. 

A group of adventurers which attacks the lich 
could find themselves in serious danger. The lich will 



bring all of his spells to bear against such a group. 
Ezzat, however, will not fight to the death. He will 
escape if he is threatened so he can see to his wounds 
and continue with his quest for finding Halaster. 

The lich has few magical items, as nearly every 
thing he had went toward making him an undead. In 
addition, magical items he gains from fallen adven 
turers are often given over to other adventurers who 
are in need. 

Ezzat usually wears his cloak of arachnida and his 
amulet of proof against detection and location, and car 
ries with him 1-4 potions of healing, a decanter of end 
less water, and a periapt of proof against poison. 

Ezzat has the following spells: 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 3, 3, 2, 
1. He usually memorizes burning hands, charm person, 
chill touch, comprehend languages, unseen servant, bind, 
detect evil, glitterdust, know alignment, web, clairaudi- 
ence, clairvoyance, fireball, hold person, invisibility 10' 
radius, charm monster, Evard's black tentacles, fear, ice 
storm, remove curse, animate dead, cone of cold, feeble, 
mind, telekinesis, wall of force, mislead, reincarnation, 
flesh to stone, delayed blast fireball, forcecage, mass 
invisibility, maze, prismatic wall, meteor storm. 

Garrik Oakspear: N em T20: AC 0; MV 12; hps 64; 
THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type; 1-6+2 
(short sword of quickness +2), ld4+5 (dagger +5); STR 
13, INT 15, WIS 14, DEX 18, CON 14, CHR 8. All 
thieving abilities are at 95%. 

Garrik is magically loyal to Halaster, kept under a 
powerful charm that is renewed each month to make 
sure he does not escape. The thief came to Under 
mountain more than a year ago, fleeing the wrath of 
Xanathar, the beholder-leader of Water deep's 
thieves' guild. The elf believed his skills and magical 
items would keep him safe and would let him into 
the deepest chambers of the dungeon where the 
greatest wealth was rumored to be had. Garrik 
descended more than halfway into the complex 
when he was apprehended by Muiral, one of Halas- 
ter's apprentices. Muiral wanted to watch the elven 
thief suffer, so she brought him before Halaster and 
was surprised when the mage did not kill him. 
Instead, Halaster bent the thief to his will by casting 


charm spell after charm spell until one of them got 
past the elf's natural resistance to such magic and 
made Garrik Halaster's puppet. 

Halaster demanded to know all about the current 
political situation in Water deep and every intricate 
detail about the thieves' guild operating there. Gar 
rik revealed all he knew. The thief, who was taught 
many derails about Halaster's gates, now returns to 
Waterdeep each week at Halaster's orders to gain 
more information for his Mad Wizard master. While 
inside Undermountain, Garrik can be found on any 
level. Halaster's apprentices and creatures loyal to 
the Mad Wizard do not threaten the thief, although 
some do not like him. 

Garrik is charged with being Halaster's chief sur 
face spy. He uses his thieving abilities to scamper 
about Undermountain to learn about adventurer 
trespassers and powerful creatures which accidently 
pass through Halaster's gates and could threaten life 
in Undermountain. Garrik's favorite ploy is to use 
his ring of invisibility and follow adventuring par 
ties for hours, noting their strengths, weaknesses, 
and any magical items they display. When he is sat 
isfied with the knowledge, he scampers away and 
finds one of Halaster's apprentices, to whom he 
quickly reveals the information. The apprentice 
mounts a parry and pursues the adventurers - if the 
adventurers seem powerful enough to pose a threat 
to the dungeon. 

If Garrik is spotted by the adventurers, he attempts 
to flee, rather than fight. Halaster has instructed him 
to protect himself; the mage has no desire to go to 
the bother of charming a new chief spy. 

However, Garrik is not above attacking lone 
adventurers who get separated from their parties. He 
collects any wealth they have and adds it to his per 
sonal allowance. The thief yields all collected magi 
cal items to Halaster or his apprentices. 

When Garrik is not skulking about, he can be 
found in Skullport. Occasionally he travels in the 
underground forest, trying to gain the attention of 
the druidess. He is transfixed with her beauty and is 
overjoyed when she pays him the least bit of atten 
tion. Halaster has not prohibited the thief from 
attempting to romance the druidess. The Mad Wiz- 



ard is amused at the thief's impossible goal. 

Garrik lives in chamber #44, near the forest. 
When traveling about the dungeon, Garrik wears 
and carries all of his magical items: boots of striding 
and springing, bracers of defense AC 4, dagger +5, short 
sword of quickness +2, wand of flame extinguishing (32 
charges), brooch of fire resistance, ring of invisibility, 
horned ring, and a brooch of shielding (which can 
absorb 58 points of magic missile damage). 

Kumar, Ogre Mage: Int Exceptional; AL LE; AC -1; 
MV 9, FL 15 (B); HD 10; hps 71; THACO 11; #AT 
1; Dmg 1-12 or 1-6+4 (spear +2 and STR bonus); 
SA spells; SD spells; MR Nil; SZ L (11' tall); ML 13; 
XP 650. 

Kumar came to Undermountain pursuing a pair of 
adventurers who inadvertently stepped through a 
gate and found themselves in Trobriand's Graveyard. 
Once in the dungeon, the ogre mage lost all interest 
in the adventurers and spent the next several days 
examining his surroundings and trying to escape. By 
using his ability to look like humans and humanoids, 
Kumar attracted the attention of the young wizard 
Spite. Spite saw through the guises to Kumar's true 
self, and the pair became as close to allies as is possi 
ble for their kind. 

Relying on each others' abilities, Kumar and Spite 
engineered various magical traps and devices to 
catch trespassers. They split the wealth equally. 
Kumar often rakes some of the wealth, polymorphs 
into a suitable human form, and purchases delicacies, 
spell components, and assorted items to further their 
research. The ogre mage enjoys returning to the sur 
face and mingling with unsuspecting humans. Most 
of those who live in the deep ways have learned that 
he is an ogre mage and regard him with caution. 

Kumar can be found practically anywhere in 
Under mountain- but always in the guise of a 
human, demihuman or ogre. A distinctive emerald 
earring tells the regular inhabitants of Undermoun- 
rain that the form belongs to Kumar the ogre mage. 
He will be encountered either alone, with a band of 
ogres, or with Spite. The only thing that distin 
guishes him from a normal ogre is his earring. 


He is quick to attack adventurers, after he has 
accessed their strengths and weaknesses. If the 
adventurers seem too formidable, he waits until the 
other creatures of Undermountain wear them down 
or until Spite is available to help him. 

Kumar lives in the ruins numbered 45 on the map 
of the Wyllowwood level. He is found there primarily 
when he rests. During this rime he is guarded by the 
eight ogres who often accompany him. He keeps all 
of his wealth on him, in a large bag of holding that is 
strapped to his waist. The ogre mage's wealth 
includes 2,400 gp worth of pearls and small gems, 20 
gp, 10 pp, 30 sp, 1-4 potions, and a wand of magic 
detection (with 22 charges remaining). The remainder 
of his wealth is stored in three accounts in a Water- 
deep savings institution-each account for a different 
human guise. Kumar wears an emerald earring of pro 
tection +5, an earring of deception (derailed in the 
"New Magical Items" section), and carries a spear +2. 

Kumar can fly for 12 turns, become invisible, cause 
darkness in a 10' radius, polymorph to a human or 
humanoid form and regenerate 1 point of damage a 
rum. In addition, once a day, he can cast the follow 
ing wizard spells: charm person, sleep, gaseous form, 
and cone of cold (60' long with a terminal diameter of 
20 feet, inflicts 8d8 points of damage, save vs. spell 
for one-half). 

In addition, because Kumar is a 7th-level priest, he 
can have the following spells: 5,5,3,2. The spells he 
typically carries are: command, entangle, pass without 
truce, cure light wounds *2, hold person, spiritual ham 
mer, heat metal, silence 15' radius, warp wood, speak 
with dead, snare, curse, cause serious wounds, and cure 
serious wounds. 

Ogres (8): Int Low; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; HD 
4+1; hps 25 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10; 
SA Nil; SD Nil MR Nil; SZ L (10' tall); ML 12; XP 
175 each. 

Mai: NE h-em F14/P14: AC -3; MV 9; hps 84; 
THACO 6; #AT 2; Dmg by spell or weapon type; 
1-6+6 (footman's flail +2), 2-8+5 (khopesh +2); STR 
18/53, INT 13, WIS 18, DEX 13, CON 16, CHR 14. 
Spells: see below. 


A former student of Benita, Mai has remained loyal 
to Malar the Beastlord. However, the muscular 
fighter-priest has no loyalry to Benita. Mai hides his 
animosity toward the high priestess well, following 
her directions and concentrating his efforts on 
spreading the influence of the Beastlord. But behind 
her back he spreads dissension among the lesser 
priests, encouraging them to question her judgment 
and to look to him for guidance. Most have remained 
loyal to her. However, Mai has gained enough secret 
followers to give him hope. He believes that within 
the next few years he will have eroded Benita's power 
and she will be ripe for a fall. 

Mai envisions himself as head priest to this cult of 
Malar. Since the Beastlord is male, he believes it is 
only fitting a man such as himself act as a high priest. 
Mai does not believe it is a woman's place to lead a 
temple. 

He is patient, manipulative, and confident that he 
will one day reach his goal. When he encounters 
adventurers wandering about Undermountain, he 
poses as a fellow adventurer who lost his way from 
his companions. Mai acts the part of a fighter only, 
not giving the adventurers cause to realize he also 
has priestly skills. When Mai believes the adventur 
ers have accepted him, he reveals that there is a cult 
of an evil god somewhere in the dungeon, headed by 
a beautiful woman. Eventually he excuses himself 
from the adventurers and loses himself in the 
dungeon. Mai is hopeful someday soon a band of 
adventurers strong enough to defeat Benita will do 
her in, leaving him ready to step in as head priest. 

Mai will fight adventurers only if they pose a dan 
ger to himself or discover his ties to the Malar cult. 
Despite his dislike of Benita, he does not want to see 
harm fall to the cult. 

The fighter-priest spends little time in the priest 
quarters. However, he stores most of his wealth there, 
hidden behind a rocky outcropping. To get at his 
wealth, approximately 13,000 gp worth of coins and 
gems, he casts animate rock to open the hollow to his 
treasure. Characters in the priest's quarters on the 
map can find Mai's wealth only by using animate rock, 
other powerful spells, or lots of hammers and chisels. 

Mai can be encountered nearly anywhere in the 


four levels of Undermountain presented in this box. 
In addition, he can be found in the marketplace and 
along the docks in Water deep, making purchases for 
the temple and the other priests in the dungeon. 
When not sleeping in his quarters, Mai carries and 
wears all of his magical items: footman's flail +2, 
khopesh sword +2, banded mail +3, shield +3, ring of 
feather falling. 

The fighter priest has these spells: 8, 8, 7, 6, 3, 2, 
1, with major access to the spheres of All, Animal, 
Healing, Plant, Summoning, Sun, Weather, and 
minor access to the spheres of Divination, Elemental, 
and Protection. He usually carries the following 
spells: bless, detect good, animal friendship, invisibility to 
animals, cure light wounds, entangle, pass without trace, 
detect magic, charm person or mammal, messenger, 
snake charm, speak with animals, find traps, know align 
ment, heat metal, produce flame, hold animal, speak 
with dead, protections from fire, hold metal, water 
breathing, water walk, plant growth, giant insect, cure 
serious wounds x2, cause serious wounds *2, speak with 
plants, rainbow, cure critical wounds, cause critical 
wounds, heal, harm, exaction. 

Nandel Greenward: CE hf W 13: AC 0; MV 12; hps 
39; THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg by spell or weapon 
type; 1-6+3 (staff +3), 1-4+3 (dagger +3); STR 15, 
INT 18, WIS 16, DEX 12, CON 10, CHR 18. Spells: 
see below. 

Nandel, one of Halaster's apprentices, is looked upon 
with much favor by the Mad Wizard because of her 
cunning, maliciousness, and great beauty. Despite the 
power that is hers to command, she acts the part of a 
willing student, eager to learn more from the "great 
master." 

When Nandel came to Undermountain 125 years 
ago she planned to learn from Halaster, then kill him 
and take his place. However, she has grown to care 
for him, respect him despite his madness, and fancies 
herself as one day marrying him-a goal other female 
apprentices have not been able to accomplish. She is 
certain the Mad Wizard will share with her the 
secrets of his longevity magics so they can spend 
eternity together. 



Nandel is haughty, arrogant, and efficient with her 
use of spells and magical items. She knows she is only 
guardedly accepted by Halaster's "associates" and 
other apprentices, as they do not wholly trust 
her -and she has given them no reason to. Further, 
she knows Arcturia, Halaster's winged apprentice, 
loathes her. (Arcturia, presented in the Ruins of 
Undermountain boxed set, had wanted to marry Hal- 
aster.) 

Ever on the lookout for new magical spells and 
items, Nandel frequently can be found wandering 
throughout Undermountain, attracted by the sounds 
of battle. Her desire to gain magic has been the 
downfall of many adventuring parties that acciden- 
rally crossed her path. 

Her private chambers are deeper within Under 
mountain, on a level not detailed in this box. There, 
she keeps her spell books, scrolls, and various elixirs 
she is experimenting with. However, she is never 
without the following magical items: bracers of 
defense AC 3, ring of protection +3, boots of levitation, 
dagger +3, staff +3, wand of magic detection (18 
charges), wand of magic missiles (49 charges), ring of 
warmth, and a pouch filled with dust of disappearance 
(which contains 12 uses when full). Nandel makes 
sure she always has at least a dozen pouches available 
filled with the dust. 

When Nandel hears a battle, she often applies her 
dust of disappearance so she can watch the fight 
unseen. If the participants include a band of adven 
turers, she stays to the fight's conclusion. If the 
adventurers lose, she uses her spells to chase away 
the monsters so she can steal whatever magic lies on 
the bodies. If the adventurers win, she gauges their 
strengths and attacks before they can heal them 
selves. Nandel is usually accompanied by her quasit 
familiar. Shadow. If Nandel finds herself in danger, 
she uses her dust of disappearance or spells to aid her 
escape. She is not likely to tell others of her failed 
encounter with a band of adventurers, as this would 
make her appear weak. 

Nandel's spells are 5, 5, 5, 4, 4, 2. She usually 
memorizes the following spells: affect normal fires, 
hold portal, jump, magic missile, ventriloquism, blind 
ness, darkness, 15' radius, detect good, glitterdust, web, 


dispel magic, fireball, fly, hold person, lightning bolt, 
charm monster, confusion, ice storm, wall of fire, ani 
mate dead, cone of cold, hold monster, telekinesis, mass 
suggestion, flesh to stone. 

Shadow, quasit: Int Low; AL CE; AC 2; MV 15; 
HD 3; hps 17; THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg 1-2/1-2/ 
1-4; SA spells; SD Special; MR 25%; SZ T (2' tall); 
ML 10; XP 650. 

Shadow's claws are coated with a toxin. Any crea 
ture struck by his claws must make a successful saving 
throw versus poison or lose 1 point of Dexterity for 
the following 2-12 rounds. Dexterity losses are 
cumulative. In addition. Shadow can turn invisible, 
detect good, and detect magic at will. He regenerates 1 
point of damage a round and can release a fear blast 
once a day that has a 30' radius. Once each week. 
Shadow can commune with the lower planes and ask 
six questions - these queries are usually directed by 
Nandel. The quasit only can be harmed by cold iron 
or magical weapons. He is immune to cold, fire, and 
lightning and saves as a 7-HD monster. In addition, 
he can assume two other forms-those of a bat and a 
wolf. He can use all of his abilities in these forms. 
Often Shadow appears as a jet black wolf at Nandel's 
side. 

Nandel and Shadow can be encountered anywhere 
in the levels presented in Undermountain II or in the 
Ruins of Undermountain. However, the pair shy away 
from the underground forest. The green dragon who 
lives there dislikes Nandel; she successfully stole 
magic from the bodies of adventurers the dragon had 
slain. 

Sher Redmane: LN hm P15: AC 2; MV 12; hps 77; 
THACO 12; #AT 1; Dmg by spell or weapon type; 
1-6+2 (staff +2); STR 14, INT 12, WIS 16, DEX 9, 
CON 12, CHR 17. Spells: see below. 

Sher has been wandering about Undermountain for 
the past several months, cataloging the creatures, 
studying the people who live there, and hoping to 
catch a glimpse of the spirit of Halaster. The priest is 
certain the old wizard is dead, but auguries have 



revealed Halaster has a "presence" in Undermountain. 

Sher views good and evil as necessary in the world, 
and has tried to not judge those living under Water- 
deep. Still, the priest has witnessed things that 
appalled him, and he has -on occasion - assisted 
bands of adventurers who were too weak and injured 
to make it out of the dungeon on their own. 

The priest of Lliira realizes he could be jeopardiz 
ing his life by traveling in Halaster's domain. Still, he 
is driven by a curiosity to discover and catalog every 
thing down here and to learn about a cult of Malar 
the Beastlord he believes to be gaining in power and 
numbers. 

He will not fight a group of adventurers unless he 
is threatened or provoked. The priest will cure them 
if they appear badly injured. In exchange, he asks 
they report to him any evidence of Malar worshipers. 
Sher will question adventurers about their home, 
current happenings in Water deep, and the political 
climate of the surrounding area. 

Sher has little wealth, only a handful of gold and 
silver coins. He has no need for money in the under 
ground. He carries and wears these magical items: 
bracers of defense AC 2, staff +2, boots of speed, ring of 
water walking, three potions of sweet water. 

Sher has the following spells: 8, 8, 6, 6, 4, 2, 1, 
with major access to the spheres of Astral, Charm, 
Creation, Divination, Guardian, Healing, Necro 
mantic, Protection, Weather, and minor access to 
the spheres of All, Elemental, Summoning, and Sun. 
He usually carries the following spells: bless, detect 
evil, detect good, purify food & drink, cure light wounds 
x4, enthrall, hold person, wyvern watch, silence 15' 
radius, aid, slow poison, heat metal, produce flame, 
prayer, create food 6' water *2, protection from fire, 
pyrotechnics, cure disease, produce fire, cure serious 
wounds x3, protection from evil 10' radius, repel insects, 
flame strike, wall of fire, cure critical wounds *2, blade 
barrier, break limb, animate rock. 

Sigafyse Wimbly: NE hm W10/F14: AC -2; MV 12; 
hps 78; THACO 7; #AT 2; Dmg by spell or weapon 
type; 1-10+6/1-10+6 (two-handed sword +4); STR 
18, INT 18, WIS 14, DEX 10, CON 16, CHR 17. 
Spells: see below. 


Exiled from Waterdeep because he killed a young 
noble companion in a supposedly mock combat, 
Sigafyse discovered the bowels of Undermountain to 
be a more to his liking than the city's streets. 
Sigafyse, who claims no alliance with Halaster and 
his apprentices, has been allowed to operate in 
Undermountain because he and his band deal with 
trespassers. Sigafyse has encountered some of Hal 
aster's apprentices, and nearly come to blows with 
them. However, he decided it would not do well to 
anger the wizard who owns the dungeon, so he made 
his peace with them and moved on. 

Sigafyse was trained first by the famed wizard 
Malika of the Sword Coast: because he was obsessed 
with magic and believed it would make him rich and 
powerful. However, by the time he had achieved 
some stature as a practitioner of the Art, he did not 
have as much wealth as planned. Therefore, the 
greedy Sigafyse switched professions to a fighter, 
learning combat skills from various guild members. 
He believed brute force would net him the gold and 
recognition he demanded. 

Sigafyse tries to avoid Halaster's apprentices. How 
ever, he has been known to follow Nandel at a dis 
creet distance. He considers the evil wizard beautiful 
and deadly -a perfect match for himself. Still, he 
knows she has designs on Halaster. Sigafyse has 
decided to wait until Halaster refuses her affections; 
then the beauteous wizard will need comforting. 

Sigafyse is greedy, impulsive, and domineering. 
He rarely acts from caution and almost never studies 
a target before attacking. He believes his skills as a 
fighter and a wizard, coupled with the strength of his 
band of flinds, are more than a match for any tres 
passers. The flinds remain loyal to him because he 
pays them well and keeps them safe from Halaster's 
apprentices. He and his band make their home in 
the far northwest corner of the forest. In a spell- 
guarded tree trunk he keeps his spell books, his 
wealth firetrapped in a concealed chest, and an 
assortment of weapons taken as prizes from defeated 
adventurers. 

Although Sigafyse covets magical items, especially 
scrolls containing new spells, he much more values 
gems and jewelry - items he believes will help him 




win the corrupt heart of Nandel. His stock of gems 
and jewelry is currently valued at 61,400 gp. 

While Sigafyse is moving about the Undermoun 
tain complex, he carries and wears: full plate armor 
+3, two-handed sword +4, ring of sustenance, helm of 
comprehending languages and reading magic, and a half 
full jar of Keoghtom's ointment. 

Sigafyse's spells are 4, 4, 3, 2, 2. He usually memo 
rizes burning hands, charm person, enlarge, protection 
from good, continual light, detect invisibility, irritation, 
stinking cloud, fly, invisibility 10' radius, slow, poly 
morph other, wall of ice, airy water, cloudkill. 

Flinds (8-12): Int Average; AL LE; AC 5; MV 
12; HD 2+3; hps 15 each; THACO 17; #AT 2; Dmg 
1-4/1-4; SA Flindbar; SD Nil; MR Nil; SZ M (6' 
tall); ML 11; XP 65 each. 

Sigafyse's band employs flindbars, allowing them 
two attacks a round. If a flind successfully hits a vic- 
rim with a flindbar, the victim must save versus 
wands or his weapon is considered entangled in the 
flindbar's chain and is torn away. 

Spite Harrowdale: NE hm W 17: AC 2; MV 12; hps 
57; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg by spell or weapon 
type; 1-6+2 (staff +2), 1-4+3 (dagger of venom +3); 
STR 10, INT 18, WIS 15, DEX 17, CON 18, CHR 
16. Spells: see below. 

Appearing to be physically only 12 years old. Spite is 
one of the oldest wizards in Undermountain: nearly 
900 years of age. The rogue mage from Rashemen has 
imbibed several dozen longevity elixirs. Spite is wiry, 
freckle-faced, and has a shock of tousled brown hair 
that he rarely combs. The wizard enjoys looking like 
an unassuming youth who couldn't possibly be pow 
erful enough to threaten trespassing adventurers. 

Spite has lived in Undermountain for the past 
three years. He wandered in one day through one of 
the gates and found the underground complex to his 
liking. He hopes to one day come across Halaster, as 
he believes there is much the ancient wizard could 
teach him. He recognizes Halaster as a superior magi 
cal force. 


Spite's closest ally, if it is possible for the evil mage 
to have such, is Kumar, an ogre mage. The pair 
spends hours devising plots and creating magical 
devices to bedevil trespassers. 

The youthful wizard considers Undermountain a 
grand adventure. It is a place where he and Kumar 
can conduct all manner of magical experiments and 
taunt trespassing explorers. 

The underground is a place Spite can call home, a 
hidden community with all the benefits of a city and 
none of what he perceives as drawbacks, such as 
taxes and meddling city guards. In past years Spite 
found himself moving around from town to town 
because law-enforcement officials considered his 
magical experiments "unlawful acts." Spite always 
fled to avoid the loss of time and possible ramifica 
tions of a trial. 

Spite spends most of his time in the ruins num 
bered #45 near Wyllowwood. PCs can encounter 
him there, where he enjoys slaving for hours over 
complex magical experiments. His current endeav 
ors include animating rocks and plants and giving 
them rudimentary intelligence. Although he has not 
been very successful, he is confident that with his 
younger body he has all the years he needs to create 
new rock and plant life. Spite is careful not to steal 
plants from the underground forest when the 
druidess is around. 

Player characters also can encounter Spite in the 
forest and at numbers 2,18, and 19 of Wyllowwood 
and at various locations in Trobriand's graveyard. 

The youthful-looking wizard occasionally makes 
trips to the surface where he wanders about the 
Waterdeep marketplaces picking up juicy bits of gos 
sip about the city. Spite considers himself a student 
of human behavior. He devotes time each week to 
studying people - whether it be merchants on a 
Waterdeep street or a group of adventurers wander 
ing about in Undermountain. While Spite is not 
above attacking trespassers into the Deep Levels, he 
would much rather observe the explorers and see 
how Halaster's creatures deal with invaders. 

Spite keeps two copies of his spell books in his lab 
oratory: one set concealed under a false rock and the 
other locked in a firetrapped chest. Much of his 


124 



wealth (about 4,500 gp) and spare potions and scrolls 
are in the chest, too. The wizard has accumulated 
much more wealth, however, that is stored in a 
Waterdeep savings institution. 

Spite carries and wears the following magical 
items: ring of protection +4, ring of blinking, staff+2, 
dagger of venom +3, pouch of accessibility, Keoghtom's 
ointment. 

Spite has the following spells: 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 3, 3, 2. 
While traveling in Undermountain, he usually mem 
orizes audible glamer, color spray, comprehend lan 
guages, detect magic, phantasmal force, alter self, 
flaming sphere, hypnotic pattern, improved phantasmal 
force, spectral hand, feign death, infravision, Melfs 
minute meteors, protection from normal missiles, spectral 
force, Evard's black tentacles, fear, hallucinatory terrain, 
illusionary wall, improved invisibility, advanced illusion, 
distance distortion, wall of force, wall of iron, wall of 
stone, anti-magic shell, mirage arcana, veil, mass invisi 
bility, reverse gravity, spell turning, Otto's irresistible 
dance, prismatic wall. 

Valdemar, Adult Green Dragon: Int Very; AL LE; 
AC -4; MV 9, FL 30 (C), Sw 9; HD 17; hps 102; 
THACO 5; #AT 3 + special; Dmg 1-8+8/1-8+8/2-20 
+8 (breath weapon 16d6+8); SA spells, fear aura; SD 
spells; MR 30%; SZ G (145' long); ML 16; XP 
11 , 000 . 

Malicious and vengeful, Valdemar claims the section 
of the great underground forest that is #43 on the 
map. The corrupt dragon cares only for his woods 
and his treasure. He spends his days counting his 
coins and gems and devising new ways to hide it 
amid the roots of his favorite tree. When evening 
falls in the woods, he journeys out into the other 
chambers of the forest and forages for food, namely 
animal's and the occasional adventurer who crosses 
his path. 

The green dragon cares little about Halaster's 
apprentices, his associates, and the powerful Malar 
priests who move throughout the deep ways. He 
believes he is more powerful than any few of them 
combined. Still, rather than test his might, he struck 
a deal with a few of them, including Arcturia and 


Trobriand. They bring him choice creatures to feed 
upon and he tells each of them about activities and 
newcomers to Wyllowwood. 

Valdemar loathes the Malar high priestess, as he 
fears she will one day hunt him. However, he is wise 
enough to avoid her and the priests. 

The green dragon is quick to join a fight if he per 
ceives a band of adventurers weak enough or laden 
with enough wealth to tempt him. Still, he is not 
foolish. He will not fight-or he will run away from a 
fight-if he believes the odds are too poor. Valdemar 
values his scaled hide and knows he has decades to 
wait to grow larger and more powerful. 

If the green dragon is cornered and his life hangs 
in the balance, he will bargain information and his 
treasure in exchange for freedom. In this instance, 
the green dragon will reveal the names and strengths 
of the Malar priests and his belief there is a temple 
on this level of the dungeon dedicated to the evil 
god. Further, he cautions his betters that the high 
priestess is cunning and always in the company of 
dangerous animals. 

Valdemar is never without his scarab of protection, 
which he wears imbedded in the scales on his belly. 
Close to it is a brooch of shielding with 80 charges. 

He has the following spells: 4,1. He typically car 
ries charm person, dancing lights, phantasmal force, wall 
of fog, and web. Valdemar has the dragon fear aura, is 
immune to gasses, can water breathe at will, can cast 
suggestion once a day, and can cast warp wood three 
times a day. 

Wachiru: CE hm P8: AC 2; MV 12; hps 54; THACO 
16; #AT 1; Dmg by spell or weapon type; 1-4+2 
(scourge +1); STR 18, INT 14, WIS 14, DEX 12, 
CON 18, CHR 14. Spells: see below. 

Wachiru joined the cult of Malar shortly after his 
half-brother, Dulic, entered into the priesthood. Ever 
following in his older brother's footsteps, Wachiru 
took quickly to clerical magic and found acceptance 
in the Cult of the Beastlord - much to the chagrin of 
his father. The boys' father, a famed Waterdeep law 
enforcer, threw the boys out of his house when he 
discovered their ties to Malar. By the time their 





126 


father realized he should try instead to help the boys, 
they were already gone from Waterdeep-nestled in 
the deep ways beneath the city. 

Wachiru admires Dulic and respects the high 
priestess. Still, he hopes to one day rise in power to 
be a high priest of Malar. He realizes this could be a 
few decades away, but he is patient. Wachiru never 
questions the orders of Benita, the high priestess, and 
he is quick to accept the older brother's advice. 

Wachiru is often found in his brother's company. 
The pair wander the levels and chambers of Under 
mountain looking for creatures and converts. 
Wachiru is more prone to picking fights with adven 
turers than Dulic. The younger brother believes peo 
ple should accept Malar or die and meet him in the 
afterlife. 

Wachiru is quick-tempered, aggressive, and fervent 
in his religion. Like his brother, he has little wealth, 
roughly 300 gp stored in the priests' quarters. He 
wears and carries his magical items when walking the 
tunnels and chambers underground: chainmail +3, 
boots of elvenkind, and a Myrlund's sipoon. 

He has the following spells: 3, 3, 3, 2, with major 
access to the spheres of All, Animal, Healing, Plant, 
Summoning, Sun, Weather, and minor access to the 
spheres of Divination, Elemental, and Protection. He 
usually carries the following spells: bless, cure light 
wounds x2, spiritual hammer, heat metal *2, hold metal, 
pyrotechnics, water walk, cause serious wounds, cure 
serious wounds. 

Dulic and Wachiru typically have 5-8 (ld4+4) 
fighters of 4th-6th levels with them. These fighters 
are loyal to Malar and protect the priests. 

Wyllow: N ef D14: AC -1; MV 12; hps 83; THACO 
10; #AT 1 or 3/2; Dmg by spell or weapon type; 
1-6+3 (spear +3); STR 14, INT 12, WIS 17, DEX 
18, CON 18, CHR 19 (21). Spells: See below. 

Wyllow came to Undermountain more than 100 
years ago when she fell in love with a handsome wiz 
ard-who happened to be one of Halaster's appren 
tices. The young elf was so infatuated with the wizard 
that she blindly married him and followed him into 
his underground home. She had little clue that he 


was evil; her much-vaunted wisdom was overshad 
owed by her heart. She saw the good in him-his 
desire to protect the wilderness, his love of animals, 
and his seemingly gentle manner. The two were wed, 
and for several months she was happy, until she 
started to miss her forests above ground and began to 
notice evil traits in her husband. 

The wizard refused to let her leave, and with Hal 
aster's assistance and several wish rings he created a 
great underground forest complete with a massive 
gate to teleport in animals, the weather, and the rays 
of the sun. He named the forest Wyllowwood, and he 
hoped the place would satisfy the druidess. And for a 
time, it did. However, Wyllow witnessed her husband 
ruthlessly kill bands of adventurers who wandered 
into the Undermountain forest. She did not accept 
his claims that they were evil defilers and again tried 
to leave for the surface. 

A fierce magical battle ensued between she and 
her husband, in which she called on the power of her 
underground forest and its inhabitants to aid her. In 
the end, Wyllow won. Her husband lay dead at her 
feet. Halaster, angered at his apprentice, did not raise 
him. Instead, the mage added him to Undermoun 
tain's undead guardians. 

Wyllow was so stricken with grief over her act - 
she had never taken another life - that she was dri 
ven mildly insane. The wandering corpse of her 
husband ever reminds her of the evil act she com 
mitted. 

Wyllow, who is in effect the great druid of her 
region, has convinced herself that this underground 
forest is her world and that she does not deserve to 
return to the surface. Nearby druids of similar rank 
are aware of the woods and, too, consider the place 
its own region. The druidess lives in the section of 
the woods, numbered #41 and #42, sharing the rest 
of the forest with the Malar priests who seem so 
interested in animals. 

She believes nature would not accept her cor 
rupted soul above the earth. The elf has resolved to 
live out her long days in the Undermountain forest, 
protecting the creatures that live there. She does not 
realize that the pool she drinks from near area #43 is 
magically extending her life. 







Wyllow is quick to defend her forest and charges 
with the druidical magic at her command. She is 
responsible for routing several bands of adventurers 
from the Undermountain forest, either because they 
injured some of the creatures there or because she 
feared for their lives and sought to protect them. 
And she has ended the lives of a few bands of evil 
adventurers. Crissann was the sole survivor of one 
such onslaught. 

Wyllow frequently will be found in the under 
ground forest, especially in the section she considers 
home. However, she travels through the entire 
woods, checking on the plants and animals there. 
The forest is large, and it is possible adventurers can 
enter portions of it without her knowledge. She also 
can be encountered practically anywhere else on 
these three levels of Undermountain as she searches 
out her undead husband in a week, futile effort to 
apologize for killing him. Wyllow does not compre 
hend he cannot understand her. 

She converses daily with the creatures in her for 
est, including the green dragon, who she has be 
friended. She is confident her association with the 
creature is keeping it from following the evil path of 
traditional green dragons. The elf's only "human" 
friends include Crissann, who lives in the forest, and 
Garrik, who she realizes is in love with her. Wyllow 
also sometimes speaks with Benita, a priest of Malar. 

Player characters encountering Wyllow will ini 
tially find her enchanting and likeable, provided they 
do nothing to harm the creatures or plants in the for 
est. It could be difficult, however, for the PCs to 
leave the forest unharmed depending on what sec 
tions of the woods they travel. PCs who damage the 
forest or its creatures while Wyllow is present will 
face a barrage of druidical spells or forced expulsion 
from the woods. No matter how characters deal with 
the elven druid, they will eventually realize she is 
quite mad. Player characters who are injured, and 
who have not damaged the forest or its inhabitants 
in front of Wyllow, can be healed by her. In ex 
change, she asks that they go the surface, carefully 
collect a few rose bushes, and bring them to her for 
est. There are no roses growing in the underground 
woods, and the druidess misses the beautiful blooms. 


Wyllow is the only true safe haven for the player 
characters on her level of Halaster's dungeon. 

Wyllow has no loyalty to Halaster and is not cer 
tain whether he is alive or undead. The druidess 
knows she is too inconsequential for him to bother 
about her. She has avoided all dealings with the wiz 
ard and his apprentices since she slew her husband. 
She is aware a cult of priests frequents her forests. 
They worship The Beastlord. The priests have done 
no ill to her forest. If anything, they have helped 
nurture the plants and animals. She accepts them 
and converses with them if they cross her path. 

Wyllow lives in a small clearing near a massive oak 
tree in the underground woods. She sleeps in the 
hollow of the oak. Inside the trunk she keeps her 
valuables, which include: a brass inlaid wooden chest 
containing a pearl necklace (worth 1,900 gp), an 
emerald ring (worth 3,000 gp), a pair of silver ear 
rings (worth 90 gp), a gold necklace (worth 400 gp), 
and a small silver cup (worth 350 gp); a silk shawl 
(worth 60 gp); a silver-edged mirror (worth 50 gp); 
and a jeweled dagger (worth 2,300 gp). 

To steal from Wyllow's tree would be folly. The 
druidess daily inventories her valuables, all gifts from 
her husband. If something were missing she would 
simply ask the tree who took it. She wears and carries 
her magical items, which include: a comb of beauty, 
bracelet of defense AC 3, staff of the woodlands, spear 
+3, ring of regeneration. 

Wyllow's spells are: 8, 8, 7, 5, 3, 2,1. She typically 
carries cure light wounds *5, entangle _2, faerie fire, 
slow poison, charm person or mammal, speak with ani 
mals x 5, goodberry, summon insects *2, protection from 
fire, water breathing, snare, spike growth, tree, giant 
insect, cure serious wounds *2, speak with plants *2, 
animal growth, cure critical wounds, air walk, heal, wall 
of thorns, conjure earth elemental. 







*¦? 




C'nmc, ye noble adveittutcts. 
tu the L.tiids of sIlinlng-^niciEd 
knights, fell dragons, Md rnnifli g 
h^adit!!, and deaiiEy xQOUSters, 
Meet fascinating feolk and tour 
wond.hrcu& sights fmm the 
H-piawlin° r cosmopolitan City 
al Splendors, great Waterdccp, 
to tlic wilds uE r fi ij- Forgotten 
Forest, to the shifting sands nf 
the AnautOlh 


desert in Arahel and Feusnint /heniil 
Keep. Sec magic work, anil thrill In a 
world uE LiifieiliEiln beauty and 
¦rtdveoliLfft. Fnr one and all, 

The Player's Guide- to lln? 
lOUGOnf K REALMS* Campaign is 
ail unforgelLable iuumey lulu 
Elm miter's, world. On saLe now Jt hook, 
game, and linbtiy stores cvciywhtte! 


r|}q&cn fl flCALifiS •'* i/tflWH liwnmiili nmwd h| TS*, IriL TlW TBft k0O IE ¦ iTTK^np^ 5wn,llt ' 1 ISM. 
jr MW.TWMnt-Ufll0ifptam 

-. /TT- §• 111 ' !¦ 1 I H r. - . 

















Advanced D an%e- onragoSs} 
































Ru)k) 5 of UtoderzmouKfttito Ur 

The Deep Levels 

Uhid&tzmouhitAiKi II* AdveroTunes 

by Dowa Ld ). Biwgle 

Table of CoK)TeK)Ts 


Troglodyte Warren.2 

Introduction. 2 

Troglodyte Raid.2 

Keyed Encounters.3. 

Survival of the Fittest. 9 

Introduction.9 

Regrets Only. 9 

Keyed Encounters.10 

The Well of Shadows. 26 

Introduction. 26 

Eliding in Shadows. 26 

Keyed Encounters. 27 


Design: Donald J. Bingle 
Editing: Steven E. Schend 
Cover Art: Fred Fields 
Interior Art: Dan Frazier 


Cried )Ts 

Cartography: Dennis Kauth 
Production: Paul Elanchette 
Typography: Angelika Lokotz 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, WI 53147 
U.S.A. 



TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End, Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, and FORGOTTEN REALMS are registered trademarks 
owned by TSR, Inc. 
DUNGEON MASTER, DM, and the TSR logo are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. All TSR characters, 
character names, 
and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 

Copyright (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc. Distributed 
to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade 
by regional distributors. 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
other unauthorized use of the material or 
artwork herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 


1104 


1-56076-821-5 


























T Koghodyte W&KK&fOS 


Terrain: Caverns 

Party Levels: 42-56 (6-8 characters of 7th-level 
average) 

I bSTtzo&ucOo w 

dventurers in Undermountain face many 
dangers - dangers that often appear out of 
thin air, as Undermountain is a place heavy with 
gate magic. No amount of careful checking, sense 
of depth, or mapping prowess can protect the 
party from encountering a magical portal (often 
invisible and undetectable until activated) that 
takes them farther within the unknown depths of 
Undermountain. Magic is of little assistance, 
thanks to Halaster Blackcloak's barriers and the 
many magic-dead areas and places of wild magic 
peppering the hallways and chambers of these 
caverns. 

A number of the gates of Undermountain are 
permanent and known, though only to a select 
few (such as Halaster, his apprentices, and a few 
choice associates within Skullport); while a por 
tal's destination may not be known, its existence 
and instantaneous nature are understood. Many 
gates are uncharted and many more are periodic 
or one-way in nature. A quick trip through such a 
portal can turn into a long stay within Under 
mountain indeed. 

This adventure is accessed by such a periodic 
gate. Although intermittent, the portal's appear 
ance and disappearance occur at regular inter 
vals known to a tribe of troglodytes; their realm 
connects to a section of Undermountain for one 
hour every eight days. Through this portal they 
mount hunting forays in search of their favorite 
food: human flesh. The portal is two-way, so the 


PCs can use it both to enter and escape the 
clan's caverns. 

The troglodytes of the Urggroth-Kyan clan 
have battled long and hard against the Skrin- 
Hopthra clan to secure this portal. Controlling 
access to the portal not only shows the power of 
the Urggroth-Kyan, but it also provides them 
with a food source not readily available to the 
other clans. This, in turn, gives the Urggroth- 
Kyan a precious commodity to sell at the market, 
where all clans interact under an uneasy truce 
enforced by the chieftain, Szygmog-Thurgin, and 
his elite, interclan troops. 

The periodic gate flickers into reality at its 
appointed time, and the troglodytes of Urggroth- 
Kyan venture out on their first hunting party 
through the portal. The other end of the gate can 
be set anywhere in Undermountain by the DM; 
it's convenient to place it near the PCs' camp to 
start this adventure. 

TRogLodyTe Ra)6 

T he troglodyte raiding party finds the PCs at 
their campsite late at night (near the end of 
second watch). Using their chameleonlike abili 
ties to cover their approach and their 90' infravi 
sion to locate party members, the troglodytes 
prepare for a quick raid. Their objectives are lim 
ited: grab something of value (be it human, other 
food, or steel) and get back to the portal as 
quickly as possible to display their prizes to their 
cheering clan. The troglodytes have no desire to 
engage in a pitched battle with magic wielders 
and better-armed humanoids. 

The raiding party comprises 10 troglodytes, 
including a leader armed with a long sword +1 






captured in a raid years ago. Two have short 
swords, three have two troglodyte javelins each 
(+3 to hit, 2d4 points of damage), one has a 
stone morning star, and three are unarmed, hav 
ing only their natural bite and claw attacks. 
After approaching within 50', the troglodytes 
hurl missile weapons for 2 rounds, concentrating 
their fire on the characters on watch, then rush 
forward to grab what they can, attacking and 
defending as necessary. They prefer a quick prize 
of flesh or steel and will hastily seize an uncon 
scious or sleeping human as booty if available. If 
not, they grab for whatever steel (swords, shields, 
boxes, etc.) is handy and begin a fast, fighting 
retreat in which the unarmed troglodytes disen 
gage last to cover the retreat of the armed 
raiders. 

The troglodytes should grab something impor 
tant to the PCs, ensuring pursuit: a fallen com 
rade or NPC associate, a metal scroll case with an 
important map, a magical item. Alternatively, the 
troglodytes can try to enrage the PCs so they rush 
after them, heedless of the danger in turning a 
blind corner and going through a waiting gate. If 
the raid goes well for the troglodytes, they taunt 
pursuing PCs with gestures and a sneering "Ga- 
rumph urgh, thog!" 

As you make a quick, sharp turn in pursuit of 
the loathsome troglodytes, you notice a 
shimmering on either side of you. Suddenly, 
the passageway is somehow different. Dark, 
to be sure, but stuffier and much smellier. 

The PCs all pass through the troglodytes' gate 
before noticing it. As soon as the last PC passes 
through, the portal flickers and fades. Those who 
attempt to return before it fully fades take ld4 
points of electrical shock damage and are re 
pulsed from entering the fading portal. Give all 
the PCs a chance to get through before the portal 
fades. 


The portal shimmers, flickers, and fades to 
nothingness, and you realize you know not 
where you are, or when-if ever -the portal 
might return. You must find an exit. 

If the PCs steadfastly refuse to follow the trog 
lodytes, they come under attack either by larger 
trog forces or by wandering monsters attracted by 
the noise. The PCs are attacked until they can 
quiet the noise or until they enter the gate. 

Troglodytes (9, 1 leader): Int Low; AL CE; AC 
5; MV 12; HD 2; hp 12 (18 leader); THACO 19; 
#AT 3 or 1; Dmg 1-2/1-2/2-5 or 2-8 (weapon); 
SA +3 with javelin; SD Stench causes opponents 
to lose ld6 points of Strength for 10 rounds; SZ 
M; ML 11; XP 120, leader 175. 


The troglodytes scamper away in nigh-complete 
darkness. There are traps in the corridor leading 
to the next room -several concealed pits (see 
map), known and easily avoided by them, but 
potentially lethal to any party running after the 
troglodytes. The pit traps are covered by pivoting 
stone slabs, and can be avoided merely by step 
ping on the pivot point, rather than an end or 
side of the slab, when passing by (the DM deter 
mines whether the slab pivots left-right or front- 
back); PCs can avoid this trap on a successful 
Dexterity check at a -4 penalty. The pivoting 
stone slab drops a victim 30' onto sharp stone 
spikes (3d6 points of falling damage, plus ld8 
points of damage from the spikes). 

Pursuing PCs eventually catch up with their 
quarry in a larger cavern ahead. 

The troglodytes you were chasing lie on the 

ground, dead from dart, sword, bite, and claw 



Keyed EiocowoTeris 

Tic Tunf Wajz 


3 


wounds on their bodies. Unfortunately, the 
object of your quest is not here to be found. 
Obviously, it has been taken by a larger, bet 
ter armed party of troglodytes or some other 
creatures. . . . 

In fact, a party of 20 Skrin-Hopthra clan mem 
bers ambushed the rival clan's raiders and seized 
their booty. They are taking it to the main troglo 
dyte community area (T9) to show off. The PCs 
must go there, regain their stolen property, and 
find an exit gate behind the throne of Szygmog- 
Thurgin, chieftain of the troglodyte clans. 

The troglodyte warren is a labyrinth of tunnels, 
caverns, and passages, extensively guarded 
because of the inter-clan battles of the troglo 
dytes. Consult the map and the location designa 
tions below for encounters the PCs come across. 

Remember that clan markings of the troglo 
dytes-color configurations, bumps on the head 
and neck, mottled blemishes -are subtle and 
unknown to the PCs. Should any PCs polymorph 
or otherwise disguise themselves as troglodytes, 
rival clans quickly and easily notice errors in 
clan markings and promptly attack the party 
when passing through any disputed territory. 
(Troglodytes pass through the domains of rival 
clans only during an alarm, as part of an inter 
clan patrol of the chieftain, or under market or 
throne room business the latter denoted by a 
red-stained cloth tied around the wrist.) Finally, 
the troglodytes speak only their own tongue and 
are thus useless under interrogation (or for just 
asking directions). 

Troglodyte: Int Low; AL CE; AC 5; MV 12; HD 
2; THACO 19; #AT 3 or 1; Dmg 1-2/1-2/2-5 or 
2-8 (weapon); SA +3 with javelin; SD Stench 
which causes foes to lose ld6 points of Strength 
for 10 rounds; SZ M; ML 11; XP 120, leader/ 
guard 175, subchieftain 270, chieftain 650. 

Troglodyte Female: HD 1 + 1; THACO 20; all 
other info as above. 









Troglodyte Leader/Guard: HD 3; THACO 18; 
all other info as above. 

Troglodyte Subchieftain: HD 4; THACO 17; 
all other info as above. 

Troglodyte Chieftain: HD 6; THACO 16; all 
other info as above. 

T2.: Rukj forz The Bondeiz 

Areas marked T2 represent invisible borders 
between the areas of two rival clans (marked for 
trogs by a very low-level scent, and for DMs by a 
background color change on the map). When a 
T2 area is first approached, it's guarded by two 
troglodytes with stone morning stars. The guards 
attempt to grapple and throw PCs onto a tripwire 
at the border during the battle; this releases an 
avalanche of rocks (Dexterity check to avoid, at a 
-6 penalty if thrown down and prone). The rocks 
inflict 2d8 points of crushing damage but do not 
completely block the passage. 

Unfortunately, if characters flee the avalanche 
by crossing the border to progress farther down 
the passageway, they encounter another tripwire 
for a trap on the other side of the invisible clan 
border. When tripped, this wire thrusts spring- 
loaded steel javelins from both sides of the pas 
sage, each striking with a THACO of 15 for 2d4 
points of damage (automatically reloading into 
the holes after striking). 

The noises of the battle, avalanche, or javelin 
thrusts are sure to attract the attention of the 
clan guards of the area being entered. Three clan 
guards on the same side of the border as the PCs 
approach them, unarmed save for steel spikes 
(ceremonial food utensils) tucked into their 
leather belts. They attack with claws and teeth. 
The attack is fierce, as the troglodytes are uncon 
cerned about capturing or killing the humanoids. 
If troglodytes of another clan cross over the bor 
der, the rival clans attack one another, disregard 
ing the adventurers until their own battle is 
finished. 


The border at the entrances to Room T9 is 
guarded by only the two initial guards, keeping 
other clans out of their areas. 


A cool breeze and a foul stench flow out of this 
room, noticeable from about 20' off. It is a large, 
humid cavern filled with mineral deposits from a 
bubbling mineral spring. 

A constant thudding sound and a horrible, 
malodorous stench accompany the cool 
breeze wafting from the cavern opening 
ahead. Dim, flickering torchlight casts a 
pinkish glow over it all, and a bubbling 
sound can be heard, perhaps a hidden 
spring. Entering the large cavern, you find 
two female troglodytes with metal cleavers, 
working dispassionately over slabs of some 
sort of flesh. Fresh red meat of unknown 
and unthinkable origin hangs from hooks 
and natural stone projections around the 
room. 

If given the chance, the female troglodytes flee 
through an exit on the opposite side of the cav 
ern rather than fight. However, if allowed to 
escape, their alarm summons 20 troglodytes, 
including a leader and subchieftain. If they do 
not escape, there is a 20% chance the noise of 
any melee alerts six troglodyte fighters, who 
respond. Even without commotion, any dead 
troglodytes are discovered within ld4 turns and 
two search parties containing six troglodytes each 
are sent out to find the murderers. 


This room is a cross between a treasure hoard and 
a garbage dump, as troglodytes consider gems and 
nonmetallic items to be only so much garbage. 
They toss them away with old bones, gristle, bro- 



T5: TizogLodyTe Chopping Molls 


T4: Garth a ge Disposal 


5 





ken stone bowls, and sundry other offensive leav 
ings of a normal troglodyte settlement. 

This natural stone cavern with its stalag 
mites and stalactites appears to be used as a 
garbage dump, from the heaps of bones, rot 
ting food, broken stone bowls, moss, and 
other unknown refuse piled about the room. 
Amidst the garbage, you also see the glitter 
of gems and an occasional leather scroll case 
or piece of parchment. 

On a quick grab, the PCs can get eight gems 
(two sapphires, five rubies, and an amethyst) 
worth a total of 640 gp, and a scroll case contain 
ing a scroll of invisibility. If they spend at least 2 
rounds searching, PCs can find five more gems 
(three rubies worth 100 gp each, an emerald worth 
275 gp, and a pearl worth 1,200 gp), and a parch 
ment with a rough sketch of the throne room (see 
T9, below), showing the pools, training grounds, 
market stalls, throne, and gate. Anything but the 
briefest look into the room, however, results in an 
attack by a piercer lurking just inside the entry 
way. Any presence in the room for 2 rounds or 
more results in an attack by a green slime located 
on the ceiling in the center of the room. 

Piercer (1): Int Non; AL N; AC 3; MV 1; HD 3; 
hp 15; THAC0 17; #AT 1; Dmg 3-18; SA sur 
prise; SZ M; ML 10; XP 120. 


incorporated into the troglodyte warren are 
known and simply avoided by the residents, but 
prove irksome to intruders. For each of the sev 
eral locations on the included map marked T5, 
roll ld4 to determine which of the following 
traps is present: 

1 Pit Trap: This simple 10' deep pit with a piv 
oting lid is coated with grease, preventing 
anyone from easily climbing out of it. Charac 
ters who fall in take ld6 points of falling dam 
age unless they make a successful Dexterity 
check. 

2 Magic Mouth: This magic mouth was cast under 
duress by Raoul, an abducted mage of Never- 
winter; he was later eaten by his captors. The 
spell is instructed to yell loudly if anyone 
other than a troglodyte passes by it, unless an 
accompanying troglodyte gives the password 
"Nikto." It performs as required, except that 
Raoul did not know troglodyte and the troglo 
dytes do not speak Common, so the alarm 
consists of the following warning: 

You've been detected! Flee from here or kill 
these leathery fiends for the sake of the gener 
ations to come! The exit is a gate in the 
throne room! Hurry! 

The Dungeon Master(tm) is advised to use this trap 
only once, rerolling if it appears randomly again. 


Green Slime (1): Int Non; AL N; AC 9; MV 0: 
HD 2; hp 11; THAC0 19; #AT 0; Dmg 0; SA 
senses vibrations and drops, turning victim to 
green slime in 1-4 melee rounds if not scraped, 
cut, frozen, or burned off, and dissolves metal in 
1-3 melee rounds; SZ S; ML 10; XP 120. 

T5: Tmcpp)b3g$ of Poujerz 

As in any community constructed with a con 
cern for military defenses, a number of traps 


3 Open Barrel of Water: This is just a simple, 
wooden barrel filled with what appears to be 
fresh water. In fact, the water is poisoned, and 
causes severe stomach cramps ld4 rounds after 
drinking and 12 hit points of damage (saving 
throw versus poison for half damage). This 
water can be cleansed with a purify food and 
drink spell. The troglodytes simply know bet 
ter than to drink from it, though any passing 
troglodyte of subchieftain rank or higher will 
stop and pretend to drink. 





4 Stench Barrier: The troglodytes are quite 
aware that the oil they exude is offensive and 
somewhat disabling to humans. Thus, they 
collect this oil and spread it over strategic 
tunnelways in their warren. Any human or 
demihuman passing by one of these stench 
barriers must make a successful saving throw 
versus poison or lose ld6 points of Strength for 
10 rounds. Troglodytes are, of course, unaf 
fected by the stench. 

T6: Homebodies 

Each of these rooms is home to one or more trog 
lodytes. The rooms contain piles of dead moss for 
sleeping in; a few prized pieces of steel (belt buck 
les, spikes, an occasional dagger or short sword); a 
small pile of half-eaten raw meat and discarded 
bones; and, perhaps, a leather belt. Roll ld6 to 
determine if the room is occupied when entered 
(unless all of the troglodytes have been called to 
the defense of the hatchery or such). On a roll of 
1-2, the room is empty; on a 3, it is occupied by a 
sleeping troglodyte couple; on a 4, it is occupied 
by a troglodyte family (male, female, and juve 
nile) in the midst of a meal; on a 5, it is occupied 
by a single male troglodyte fighter; and on a 6, it 
is occupied by two male troglodyte guards. 

T7: Oop$ J Wizohjg Door 

This is a large, partially darkened room, in which 
20 troglodytes, their leader, and a sub-chieftain 
are drinking and throwing knives. If the PCs lis 
ten at the sliding stone door before entering, they 
hear the grunts and snorts of troglodyte revelry. If 
they open the door, however, the troglodytes, 
ever alert for clan battles, will notice and imme 
diately rise to attack. They will pursue only to the 
limits of their clan boundaries, but will notify the 
troglodyte chieftain of the attack; the only result 
of this is that the chieftain's personal guard will 
be doubled if later encountered. 


T 8: GehJoizaVohJS To Come 

The grunts and snorts coming from this room are 
short and high-pitched, for this is the hatchling 
center where female troglodytes care for their 
young. The little hatchlings and younger troglo 
dytes are cute (in a lizardly sort of way) noncom 
batants. The mother troglodytes are not as skilled, 
or fearsome as the male fighters, but protect the 
hatchlings to the death. In addition, at the first 
sign of danger, one of the adults pulls a large 
lever, sounding a thunderous gong that reverber 
ates throughout the troglodyte warren. Every - 
yes every - troglodyte in the warren immediately 
drops his or her tasks and any clan quarrels to run 
to the defense of the hatchlings. Given the 22 0 
troglodytes present, the PCs could have a consid 
erable battle on their hands! The troglodytes 
pour through both entrances and overwhelm the 
PCs if the gong sounds. 

T9: GuAR&iAKis of The TbRowe 

The throne of the troglodyte chieftain, Szyg- 
mog-Thurgin, is located at one end of this huge 
cavern. Unless drawn away by the sounding of 
the hatchery gong, there are more than 60 trog 
lodytes present, 50 of which are male. Half of 
the males are engaged in drills in a quadrangular 
practice field northwest of the pools of water in 
this room. The rest are either on active guard 
duty near the throne and gate (see below) or are 
buying, selling, or browsing in the area of the 
market stalls. 

You see a huge cavern, complete with pools 
of water, what appear to be penned-in war 
rior training facilities, and a meat market 
(where meat is traded for bits of steel and 
other trade goods). There are about 50 or so 
troglodytes, mostly males, milling about per 
forming their tasks. Several adjoining al 
coves seem to house subchieftain families. 




At one end of the large cavern is a throne 
on which sits the troglodyte chieftain, 
accompanied by a retinue of 12 guards (four 
to either side, and four behind) armed with 
javelins and swords. Off to the side of the 
chieftain's bone throne, you see a shimmer 
ing blue-green oval floating in the air; you 
know it to be a gate. Twelve more armed 
guards encircle it, all facing outward. On the 
other side of the throne is a small pile of 
steel and other valuables, including anything 
of value taken from you. 

Without the careful use of stealth or distrac 
tion, getting through the portal (with or without 
recovering their stolen goods) will be tricky and 
possibly suicidal for the PCs. In addition to their 
standard capabilities, the guards in back of Szyg- 


mog-Thurgin have access to a lever that opens a 
10' square trapdoor in front of the throne, drop 
ping characters 60' onto lO'-tall sharpened spikes 
(6d6 points of falling damage, plus 3d6 points of 
impaling damage). The circle of guards around 
the portal will not break ranks unless the chief 
tain's life is directly threatened. The chieftain's 
presence adds a +2 bonus to all morale checks 
made by the troglodytes in this room. 

If the PCs make it to the portal and go through, 
they will have made a successful escape from this 
adventure. At the choice of the Dungeon 
MASTER(tm), the portal can transport them to 
another adventure, the surface realms, an inn at 
Skullport, or another area of Undermountain 
leading to another adventure. Of course, it can 
also lead circuitously back to the party's campsite, 
at the DM's discretion. 




Sun ufuaL of The 
FfffesT 


Terrain: Subterranean dungeon 

Party Levels: 42-56 (6-8 characters of 7th-level 

average) 

I hStizobucTio w 

T he Obstacle Course is Undermountain's 
(and a god's) punishment for foolhardy 
heroes who respect neither their opponents nor 
the inherent and considerable dangers of adven 
turing, instead bragging overmuch of their own 
skills and prowess. Located in an isolated recess of 
Undermountain, the Obstacle Course is accessi 
ble only by a summons from its master, Fidelio 
Santablo of the One Way. 

Once a paladin, Fidelio was conceited and 
cocky -he was one of those obnoxious paladins 
who irritate all about them with sanctimonious 
sermons, bristling bravado, and snobbish belit 
tling of friends and foes alike. Fidelio fought a 
great battle ages ago in Undermountain, finally 
defeating a great, evil beast by successfully calling 
for the direct intervention of his deity, Tyr. The 
echoes from the evil behemoth's fall were hardly 
still before Fidelio took to bragging of his great 
feat, deprecating the abilities of the fallen behe 
moth he had fought so hard against. The God of 
Justice was, needless to say, displeased with his 
servant, and cursed Fidelio to wander Under 
mountain as a phantom, forever seeking out brag 
garts of similar natures and teleporting them to a 
testing ground to prove their true mettle. 

Due to Tyr's curse and the nature of this test, 
this part of the dungeon prevents any clerical 
prayers or entreaties from being heard by the 


gods. Thus, while clerical spells are effective as 
normal, additional spells cannot be regained 
through prayer. Magical spells, however, are 
regained normally, although spell components 
may be difficult to come by in this isolated area 
of Undermountain. 

Every time a PC in the dungeon makes grand 
boasts about his or her abilities or sneers conde 
scendingly at able and dangerous opponents, the 
PC runs a 5% chance of being overheard by the 
ever-wandering shade of Fidelio. Fie instantly 
transports the conceited PC and his or her com 
panions to the starting chamber of the Obstacle 
Course, a particularly lethal collection of traps 
and dangers that must be endured or defeated in 
order to access the gate exit that returns them 
whence they came. No treasures, trophies, or 
prizes await their success, as survival (and realiz 
ing the truth of one's boasts) is the only reward 
the Obstacle Course offers. 

RegizeTs OtoLy 

I f a PC attracts Fidelio's attentions, read the 
following to the players: 

The luminescent outline of what must be a 
paladin appears before you, but he is unlike 
any paladin you have encountered before. 
Flis armor is pitted and scarred, his shield 
dented, and his tunic is stained and rotting. 
Flis face is thin, his cheeks sunken and cov 
ered with ragged stubble. No holy symbol is 
visible, but a hole torn in his tunic marks 
where one was once sewn. 





The shimmering spectre coughs violently 
- a hacking, rasping sound of one too long 
in cold, damp quarters - then speaks: "Fine, 
brave words, but only if you pass the test of 
the Obstacle Course will you truly know the 
truth of such reckless self-praise. Your 
tongue's wagging betrays you!" he rasps, 
pointing a broken sword at the braggart, 
then continues. "Your choice of companions 
dooms them also to face this test. Succeed, 
and you will be returned here with your pos 
sessions intact and tales and experiences 
aplenty to share with the unwary. Fail, and 
your boasts shall prove your certain annihi 
lation. 

"However, should any of you exhibit an 
understanding of the errors of your ways and 
beseech Tyr to release you, you will also be 
returned to this place, albeit bereft of your 
magic, weapons, and items (save a simple 
tunic and a dagger). Your items will go to 
worthier heroes in the cause of Tyr, and you 
shall be set on the path of humility for your 
arrogance. The Obstacle Course can be run 
but once. This is your time, and you have 
brought this judgment upon yourself. I pray 
you are up to the task of proving your 
boasts." 

The luminescent figure expands and rushes 
toward the group, enveloping the PCs in a gate 
spell. Attacks have no effect on the spectral 
image of Fidelio, nor can he be turned. Fidelio 
spoke truly about the various ways to end the 
test. Should any PC come to a sincere under 
standing of humility and beseech Tyr to let him 
or her leave the test, Fidelio appears and em 
braces the PC, and the PC is returned to the 
place in Undermountain where Fidelio was first 
encountered. However, the PC will be stripped of 
all magic, weapons, and items save a tunic and a 
dagger. 


EkicouioT&tzs 

Cl: X M euzks the Spot 

The group of PCs is simultaneously transported 
into Cl, which is shrouded in total darkness. 
Read the following: 

After the swirling eddies of the gate subside, 
you find yourselves completely surrounded 
by cool, moist, darkness. No torch burns, no 
magic shines through the shroud of black 
ness that extends round about you. Beneath 
you is a stone floor, smooth but slightly 
sticky. No walls are within arm's length. A 
slight, steady, rumble comes from overhead. 

The rumbling overhead is caused by the gradu 
ally lowering stone ceiling, which begins 20' 
above the floor of the room and progresses down 
ward 2' per round. The special magics of the gate 
extinguished any torches or lamps being carried, 
as well as any magical lights, although PCs can 
relight these devices easily. The PCs can dis 
cover, either through stumbling about in the 
darkness or lighting a torch or other light source, 
that the room is roughly 30' square with no 
apparent exit. In fact, there is a secret door on 
the eastern section of the north wall and an "X" 
in the middle of the south wall. If the PCs use a 
light source, read the following: 

Your eyes involuntarily squint in the light, 
but adjust quickly. You are in a large square 
room carved from solid rock. A large "X" is 
marked on the south wall, apparently in 
dried blood. There are words above and 
below the "X" in elvish and dwarvish. A few 
seconds after the light appears, a voice 
begins to speak in orcish from the area of 
the eastern edge of the north wall. Most 
importantly, however, you notice that the 




red-stained rock ceiling is descending steadily 
toward the floor. No exits larger than an 
occasional mousehole along the edge of the 
floor are apparent. 

The speaking from the north wall comes from 
a magic mouth immediately above the secret door, 
repeating over and over in orcish, "This way to 
the egress." The elvish and dwarvish words on 
the south wall read "X marks the spot." In fact, 
close inspection will reveal that the "X" has been 
scarred by hammer or axe blows of some sort. 
Hitting the wall or touching the "X" will cause a 
large splash to be heard above the descending 
ceiling as liquid begins to stream from the cracks 
between ceiling and walls on all four sides, run 
ning onto the floor. 

The liquid is a mild acid that collects at 
approximately two inches per round on the floor 
after 2 rounds, doing 1-3 points of damage per 
round to any PCs and gear immersed in the acid. 


The acid quickly washes off the elvish and 
dwarvish writing, revealing a hidden message in 
common, which reads: "Even an ore understands 
orcish." 

The secret door can be located by the usual 
means, although any attempt made after the acid 
flow begins is at half of one's normal ability to 
succeed, due to the intervening acid flow. Any 
attempt to open it involves putting one's hands 
in the flowing acid for at least 1 round. Unless 
blocked or redirected in some manner, the acid 
also falls over the opening of the open secret 
door, causing those exiting the room to dash 
through the falling acid for normal damage. The 
exit leads slightly uphill to another room. 

The acid eventually drains through the small 
holes in the floor of Cl. The ceiling will reset one 
turn after hitting the floor, rising to its 20' height. 
Entering the room again after the trap resets trig 
gers the sequence as before; the acid dissolves all 
evidence of any previously fallen comrades. 



11 



C2: Imponfaboce )$ )nj The 
Eye of the Beholden 

A passage about 40' long leads up a sloping 
chiseled rock corridor into the southwest 
corner of a 20' by 40' room. There is a 3' 
high table near the southwest entrance; on it 
sit a large, closed, leather-bound book, an 
ink stand, and a quill pen. A small placard 
on the table reads: "Please Sign In." 

The book itself is labeled "Guests of Importance" 
in common. The table is a sturdy and somewhat 
decorative wooden construct; the book is old and 
filled with names of many individuals (even some 
recognizable heroes of ages well past). Neither 
the table nor the book is trapped. 

The bottom of the inkwell is trapped, however. 
This trap is very difficult to detect, as the pressure 
plate is inside the inkwell, although attempts to 
pick up the inkwell prove it affixed to the table. If 
the quill or another object inserted into the 
inkwell touches the bottom, a panel in the north 
east corner of the room slides open 1 round later 
to reveal a recessed alcove. A beholder, exiled to 
this place by Tyr, hovers in the alcove. It immedi 
ately attacks the PCs from there (50% chance per 
round that it floats out from the open alcove and 
places itself in front of the northeast exit during 
the fight). 

The beholder attacks the PCs using its eye 
stalks: 1- charm person; 2- charm monster; 3- sleep 
(one target); 4- telekinesis (250 pounds); 5- flesh to 
stone (300yard range); 6- disintegrate (20-yard 
range); 7- fear (as a wand); 8- slow; 9- cause serious 
wounds (50-yard range); 10- death ray (one target, 
40-yard range). Roll 4dl0 to determine which 
stalks are in useful positions when the central eye 
(anti-magic ray [140-yard range]) is facing the 
PCs; it can utilize other eye stalk abilities only if 
it turns or if PCs attack from in front of it in a 
greater-than-90-degree arc. The beholder retreats 
to its alcove and shuts the secret door behind it 


after losing more than four eyestalks or more than 
60% of its total hit points. 

The beholder doesn't appear if the inkwell trap 
is not sprung; if the trap is triggered again, the 
alcove closes, confining the beholder. If the PCs 
find and open the secret door to the alcove, the 
beholder surprises the PC opening the door, 
attacks, and moves out unless the PCs immedi 
ately shut the alcove door. If the PCs rush past 
the beholder and exit the room, it continues 
attacking them until dealt with in some manner. 

Beholder (1): Int Exceptional; AL LE; AC 0/2/7; 
MV FI 3(B); hp 61; THAC0 7; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; 
SA magic; SD anti-magic ray; MR Special; SZ M; 
ML 18; XP 14,000. 

C3: Whew F)n$T We PnAcTiee 
To Deceive 

After 20 feet, the corridor from Room C2 ends at 
a stone door. It easily slides aside to reveal a 20'- 
square room with an exit corridor in the north 
west corner. The door is not trapped, although 
opening it resets an hourglass on a small marble 
pedestal just inside the entrance. Unless spiked or 
held open in some manner, the panel slides shut 
behind the PCs entering the room, locking 
securely with an audible click. There is no access 
to the lock mechanism from inside, although 
anyone outside the room can easily open the 
door. 

In the northwest corner, a lO'-wide corridor 
begins. Even casual inspection reveals several 
traps; find traps rolls or similar investigations 
reveal it to be liberally littered with mechanical 
and magical tripwires, traps, and pitfalls of all 
kinds, as well as more obvious impediments to 
quick passage, such as spikes, barbed wires, swing 
ing spiked balls, greased ramps, etc. 

Unless handled witlessly or without skill, none 
of these items is especially dangerous or lethal. 
They do, however, serve three distinct purposes 



for the Obstacle Course: first, to prevent rapid 
escape from the beholder or rapid retreat from 
the area that lies ahead; second, to slow the PCs' 
progress; and third, to give the PCs a false impres 
sion that the traps in the Obstacle Course are 
easily dealt with. 

Following is a listing of the traps, set in order 
of occurrence and showing distance in feet from 
the entrance in Room C3. The listing gives their 
placement, their detection and avoidance, and 
their effects. The hourglass is itself not a trap, but 
the PCs may give it a significance it does not 
have, by hurrying their progress unnecessarily or 
by returning repeatedly to restart it on the 
assumption that the time indicated by the hour 
glass is somehow important. It has no effect on 
the traps or the corridor whatsoever, save to make 
the PCs (and players) even more nervous. 

5': Tripwire 2' off floor; causes four darts to 
shoot from holes 3' up on the north wall 
(THACO 18), doing ld4 points of damage 
each; can be avoided or sprung safely. 

10': Stabbing spikes from both side walls 
(THACO 17 vs. two targets, ld6 points of 
damage if hit) and magical glyphs 1' on 
either side of center of floor, each of which 
explodes, doing 2d4 points of damage to 
PCs within 2' and throwing affected PCs 
10' in a randomly determined direction; 
can be detected by a detect magic or find 
traps and safely avoided or sprung by sliding 
a 10 lb. (or heavier) weight across the trig 
ger area from at least 10' distant. 

15': Crisscrossed web of barbed wire (ld6 hit 
points of damage) blocking the passage, all 
coated with poison (save vs. poison at -4 or 
fall unconscious for 2d4 hours); wires can 
be cut, broken, or melted with normal 
(non-magical) fire, although a PC severing 
a strand without holding the severed ends 
runs a 20% chance of being hit by a back 
lash as the tension on the strand is released. 


25': Magically invisible tripwire 5' off floor 
level, which releases nine heavy crossbow 
bolts (THACO 14, ld4+l points of dam 
age) from holes in south wall spread out to 
hit ld6+3 targets; detectable by find traps, 
detect invisibility, or detect magic; can be 
avoided or safely sprung. 

35 : Spiked ball on chain swings down from 
ceiling to 2' above floor level, inflicting ld6 
hit points of damage on contact, as well as 
releasing a yellow gas cloud (when trig 
gered, regardless of attack roll) that smells 
like sulphur and fogs vision for ld6 turns; 
easily noticeable; can be avoided by simple 
Dexterity roll when passing. 

5 5': Two tripwires 1' and 5' off floor level, with 
an invisible wire between them at 3' off the 
floor, each of which causes two razor wheels 
to swing across the corridor between the 
tripwires, doing 3d6 points of damage 
(THACO 12 to all within 3' of wires); visi 
ble tripwires detectable by sight, other trip 
wire by find traps, detect invisibility, or detect 
magic; can be avoided or sprung from dis 
tance. 

65': 60'-long downward slope covered with 
grease (Dexterity check at -6 or fall and 
slide); visible sheen to grease and obvious 
slope to floor. 

85': Continuation of sloped floor (unmodified 
Dexterity check), with imbedded barbs and 
razors in floor, doing ld6 points of damage 
if trod upon with anything but heavy boots, 
3d6 hit points of damage if a PC slides 
across them during fall on slope; visible, but 
not obvious from distance. 

95': Spiked pit trap (full width of passage, 20' 
long) beneath illusory floor, 20 foot deep 
(2d6 points of falling damage + ld6 points 
of spike damage); detectable by detect magic 
and Wisdom checks. 

115': Razor edge to pit trap which severs ropes 
once weight is put on it (ld8 points of 



13 





damage if edge grabbed); noticeable only 
with find traps within 5' of edge. 

145': Giant spider web blocks corridor; readily 
apparent; no spider or trap present. 

160': Meadow of metallic reeds and cattails about 
4' high filling the entire corridor for about 
30'; easily swayed into striking one another, 
they tone musically and strike sparks; pas 
sage through them at a normal pace will do 
ld4 hit points of sonic damage if ears are 
not protected; easily seen; may be held 
motionless or moved through slowly. 

190': Tripwire 1' from floor will be tripped by 
swaying reeds and cattails of previous trap 
unless reeds are kept from swaying while 
PCs pass through them; trap releases odor 
less gas from floor which explodes two 
rounds later if open flame (or sparks from 
colliding metallic reeds) are present at that 
time for ldl2 hit points of damage to all 
within 20'. 

200': Pressure plate not tripped unless 100 
pounds of weight (or more) is placed on it, 
triggering a spray of oil (if set aflame by 
open fire or other spark, causes 2d6 points 
of damage the first round and ld6 points of 
damage the second round); detectable by 
find traps and avoidable by stepping over 
the 2'-wide pressure plate. 

215': Pressure plate on side walls, triggering an 
electric shock from wall (ld6 points of 
damage) and generating visible sparks; 
detectable by find traps and avoidable. 

225': Broken glass litters the floor to a depth of 
two inches along entire width and 40' in 
length (damage of 1 point/5' traveled on 
floor unless boots are magical or metal, nor 
mal boots must make save vs. acid or be cut 
to useless leather); easily visible; a single 
1,000-gp-value diamond is hidden (at 245') 
within the broken glass. 

270': Gelatinous Cube (1): Int Non; AL N; AC 
8; MV 6; HD 4; hp 24; THAC0 17; #AT 1; 


Dmg 2-8; SA Paralyzation for 5-20 rounds, 
surprise at -3; SD Immune to electricity, 
fear, holds, paralyzation, polymorph, and 
sleep-based attacks; SZ L; ML 10; XP 975. 

290': Greased upward slope for 67'. Roll under 
Dexterity (-2 penalty) each round to avoid 
sliding back down, unless precautions are 
taken (e.g., climbing skills or use of spikes 
and ropes). 

300': Obvious tripwire three inches above sloped 
floor level releases 20 rot grubs at the top of 
the sloped floor to slide down onto the PCs; 
roll under Dexterity at -6 penalty to avoid 
contact. 

Rot Grub (20): Int Non; AL Nil; AC 
9; MV 1; HD 1 hp; 1 hp; THAC0 Nil; #AT 
0; Dmg Nil; SA if touch bare skin (percent 
age chance equal to 10 times victim's AC), 
automatically burrow in to heart and cause 
death in ld3 turns unless burned out (flame 
kills ld6 rot grubs and causes ld6 damage 
per application); SD Nil. 

358': Invisible tripwire three inches above the 
top edge of the sloped floor releases a brief 
flow of boiling water down the slope, deal 
ing ld4 points of damage to exposed or 
cloth-covered flesh. In addition, PCs who 
suffer more than 1 point of damage must 
roll under half their Dexterity or slide back 
down sloped floor. 

360': An hourglass sits in a marble niche in the 
wall at the top of the sloped floor, its sands 
about to run out. If hourglass is turned over, 
a large stone slab drops into place to its left, 
blocking further passage to the narrowing 
corridor beyond the hourglass. The slab 
wall rises automatically when the hourglass 
is allowed to run out. If the PCs do not let 
the hourglass run out, it could be quite a 
wait. If the wait is long, be sure to see if the 
PCs can remain perched on the narrow, 2'- 
wide ledge above the sloped floor without 
falling off while asleep. (Unmodified Dex- 




terity check each hour unless special pre 
cautions [e.g., roping themselves in] are 
taken.) Also, remember that clerical spells 
cannot be regained while the PCs are in 
the Obstacle Course. 

C4: Mathematics Exam 

The 5'-wide by 10'-high corridor runs straight for 
some distance (170 feet) and is featureless and 
unremarkable, save for the fact that it has been 
freshly painted a bright white and glows uni 
formly (due to the magical paint) should a detect 
magic be cast on it. Due to its dimensions, PCs 
must travel in single file within this area. 

A detect traps roll reveals a magical trap 80 feet 
down the corridor. The trap, removable only by 
casting dispel magic, drops a delayed blast fireball from 
the ceiling when the first PC passes by the spot 
heading west; it drops additional delayed blast fire 
balls for every six people passing that spot (i.e. 7 PCs 
= 2 fireballs, 13 = 3, etc.) in a northerly direction. 
Each delayed blast fireball explodes exactly 3 rounds 
after dropping, meting out 10d6+10 points of dam 
age to anyone in this corridor (save vs. spell for half 
damage). 

PCs running back to the east are caught in the 
blast unless they pass the hourglass alcove (at 
mark 360' of C3, above). The blast also causes 
the stone slab to again slide abruptly shut. The 
slab rises only once the hourglass is flipped and 
allowed to run out a second time. 

PCs who run forward (west) can reach the far 
end of the corridor, just out of reach of the blast, 
if they immediately move at maximum speed and 
make two Dexterity checks for the greased areas 
of the floor at the 100' and 120' points along this 
corridor. All PCs behind one who falls must save 
at -2 for each obstacle in their path to safety. 

When the PCs arrive at the wall at the 170' 
point of the corridor, ask their players to roll 
Dexterity checks to see if their characters can 
stop their headlong rush without hitting the wall. 


The wall is mechanically trapped with a simple 
pressure plate. Touching the wall causes a small 
piece of parchment to drop to the floor from a 
small hole in the ceiling above. The note reads: 

This could have been another exploding 

device. Thank Tyr for your many blessings. 

Five segments after first being touched, the 
note (written on the magical equivalent of flash 
paper) disappears in a brief flash of flame. The 
flame causes no harm, but it could precipitate 
another headlong rush down the corridor if PCs 
are getting panicky. In the event any PCs do ven 
ture east back down the corridor, remember that 
the magical trap at the 80' point of the corridor 
causes another delayed blast fireball to drop for 
every six individuals to pass it in a westerly direc 
tion, restarting this scenario yet again. The blasts 
of flame leave no discernable scorch marks on the 
magical white paint. 

Once the PCs are safely standing at the west 
ern end of the corridor, they can search for the 
secret door on the north wall to the next room. 
Unless spiked or held open in some manner, this 
secret door shuts and locks behind the PCs. 

CS: DuiogeoKJS of Deja Vu 

After about 30' of curving corridor, the passage 
opens into an extended area of continual darkness. 
Dispelling or negating the continual darkness 
reveals a small marble table with an apparently 
empty hourglass on it. Investigation of the hour 
glass (shaking it, etc.) reveals that it is actually 
filled with invisible sand. 

Past the hourglass, a 10'-wide corridor begins, 
the length of which is affected by multiple contin 
ual darkness spells; if characters use dispel magic, 
they can cancel the darkness for a distance of ld4. 
x 10'. If the darkness is dispelled, PCs find that 
the corridor is also coated with the magical white 
paint encountered earlier (C4). This paint 



negates detect magic spells for locating magical 
traps, as everything glows with a magical hue. 

The corridor, however, is actually an exact 
duplicate of Room C3, save that all tripwires, 
spikes, grease, and other traps are hidden by con 
tinual darkness and, thus, avoidable only with 
find traps abilities or a good memory (or map) of 
what was encountered in Room C3. Thus, PCs 
who dealt carefully with the prior traps (even 
the most obvious and relatively harmless), or 
who carefully mapped, will realize after the first 
trap or two what their situation is, and more 
easily avoid the dangerous traps. Without good 
memories, good maps, and visual clues, the traps 
of Room C3 are a much more lethal (and hum 
bling) series of encounters. 

Though the traps are not redescribed here (ref 
erence Room C3 above), the DM should only 
narrate those portions of the trap that are physi 
cally encountered or detected by nonvisual 
means (unless the darkness is negated). Use 
descriptions based on sounds or effects in dark 
ness to relay the situation to the PCs without 
revealing that they're encountering an identical 
series of traps as before, but blindly. 

C6: A FuKigus Amowg Us 

Unlike the entrance into Room C4, the ramp at 
the end of Room C5 leads into a cavern. Com 
pared to the tunnels, Room C6 is spacious. Read 
the following: 

As you come up the ramp, you enter a spa 
cious natural cavern almost 50' in diameter, 
with soft, luminescent lighting of its own. A 
clear path crosses the cavern to a 10'-by-10' 
exit out the opposite side. Much of the cav 
ern is covered with what appears to be a field 
of tall mushrooms of some kind amid smaller 
and shorter fields of various other fungi. 
Some of the fungi and mushrooms are recog 
nizably edible. 


The taller mushrooms are actually myconids 
(fungus men) in a communal melding. They are 
peaceful creatures who will not attack the PCs 
unless they or their crops are attacked or seized by 
the party. If this occurs, read the following out 
loud: 

Suddenly, the tall mushrooms move slowly 
toward you, and you realize that these are 
more than fungi -they are fungus men! 
Although they carry no weapons, they drum 
their arms along their stalks rhythmically as 
they walk toward you. 

At this point, the myconids can still be dealt 
with peacefully, although they generally regard 
humanoids as violent, to be viewed with suspi 
cion and treated warily. Obvious apologies and 
offers of food or other bribes result in the myco 
nids allowing the PCs to exit without violence. 
Any hostile moves by the PCs, however, cause 
the myconids to engage the PCs, spewing clouds 
of specialized spores and attacking with their 
clublike hands. They fight to the death to defend 
their home. If they defeat the PCs, the myconids 
strip them of useful items and put them through 
the exit to this cavern, locking it behind them. 

Myconid (20, plus Myconid King): Int Avg; AL 
LN; AC 10; MV 9; HD 1-5, King 6; hp 5, 6, 6, 6, 
7 (5xlHD), 11, 11, 12 (3x2HD), 14, 14, 16, 17 
(4*3HD), 20, 21, 21, 24, 27 (5*4HD), 31, 32, 38 
(3x5HD), 41 (King, 6HD); THACO 19 (1-2 
HD), 17 (3-4 HD), 15 (5-6 HD); #AT 1; Dmg 

I- 4 x HD; SA Spore clouds, with 4 HD myco 
nids using pacifier spares -40' range, single crea 
ture effect (save vs. poison or be totally passive 
and inactive for 4 rounds) and 5-6 HD myconids 
using hallucinator spores -40' range, single crea 
ture effect (save vs. poison or endure following 
hallucinatory effects for HD turns [roll d20 to 
determine effect]: 1-10 cower and whimper; 

II- 15 stare into nothingness; 16-18 flee shriek- 



ing in random direction; 19-20 try to kill closest 
creature); SD Poisonous skin (save versus poison 
or suffer hallucinations as above); SZ T-L (2'/ 
HD); ML 13; XP 1HD, 65; 2 HD, 120; 3 HD, 
175; 4 HD, 270; 5 HD, 420; 6 HD, 650. 

C7: The RusT of the 
WeapoioRY 

If the PCs leave Room C6 under their own 
power, they can move through the twists and 
turns of this 20'-by-20' corridor and occasional 
alcoves for ld4 rounds before encountering a rust 
monster, moving toward them from ahead. If, 
however, they were defeated and dumped out of 
Room C6 by the myconids, they eventually 
awaken from any spore-induced effects to find a 
rust monster munching contentedly on any 
exposed metal weapons or other items; it begins 
with the large ferrous metal things, such as armor. 

Rust Monster (1): Int Animal; AL Nil; AC 2; 
MV 18; HD 5; hp 29; THAC0 15; #AT 2; Dmg 
Nil; SA Rusts metal on contact; SD Nil; SZ M; 
ML 9; XP 270. 

C8: EmpTv Threats 


Read the following for those PCs who do not 
make their saves: 

A huge natural cavern is beyond the door, lit 
by numerous torches and fires of an ore 
encampment. Almost 50 ores in leather 
armor are grabbing up arms and charging 
toward you, a guttural war cry ringing down 
the corridor. An ore shaman stands on a 
large boulder 20' away gesticulating rapidly, 
while an ore with a long sword (the door 
guard) charges toward you! 

Determine what each character is doing and 
play in the order of the DM-rolled initiatives to 
determine when any PCs who made their saves 
can inform their friends of the true nature of this 
danger (future saves at a +4 bonus once informed 
of the illusion). The ore, captured and placed in 
this room to add credibility to the illusion, is both 
hungry and angry. Thinking the party is allied 
with his captor, he fights to the death. He is 
wearing leather armor. 

Ore (1): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 6( 10); MV 9( 12); 
HD 1; hp 6; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8 
(sword); SA Nil; SD Nil; SZ M; ML 11; XP 15. 


The corridor from Room C7 dead-ends abruptly 
at a reinforced wooden door. It is locked, though 
it has no traps. Opening it reveals a vast cavern 
filled with ores, with an ore shaman in a casting 
position near the door! In reality, this is an illu 
sion and the door opens onto a lO'-square room 
holding a single ore brandishing a club. Secretly 
roll a save versus spell for each PC, and (also 
secretly) make individual initiative rolls. Read 
the following to those who successfully make the 
saving throw: 


An ore, brandishing a long sword, and look 
ing rather crazed, is rushing out of the square 
room at you! 



CP: FaLUwg fon Owe AyooXhen 


The PCs find a labyrinthine area of many corri 
dors and intersections, including blind alleys and 
loops that rejoin their original paths. Included in 
this maze are several secret doors that make the 
path somewhat more direct, as well as a number 
of wooden doors that open onto solid rock walls, 
just to keep the PCs busy and a little irritated. 
This exasperation can grow somewhat frantic for 
parties who map their paths thoroughly, as they 
realize that the maze has no apparent exit. 

Also included is a fairly obvious pit trap con 
sisting of a 10' section of the stone floor bal 
anced on a weighted pivot. When two PCs or 



17 



more are on one portion of the slab (like the first 
five feet) and none are on the other half (or 
more PCs are on the front 'portion than are on 
the rear portion), the slab tilts and drops the 
unsuspecting PCs into a 30-foot pit. Normal 
falling damage applies (3d6 points of damage per 
10 feet fallen). The pit is detectable through the 
usual skill rolls or magical means, which allow 
the PCs to notice the crack in the floor for the 
pivoting stone slab. 

In fact, the pit is the only exit to the maze. 
One round after the trap is triggered, a secret 
door opens in one wall of the pit, revealing a 
torchlit corridor. Of course, anyone in the pit 
notices the exit. PCs who avoid the pit could 
spend too much time roaming the maze, deplet 
ing food and water supplies. 

The exit was intentionally placed in the pit, 
both to humble the PCs -despite "superior" 
skills, they may have trouble finding it -and to 
make them realize that superior skills should be 
properly utilized for the good of all. If the PCs 
notice the trap and don't trigger it, nothing hap 
pens. If, however, the PCs notice and avoid the 
trap, but trip it or somehow mark the trap to aid 
any who may follow at a later time, Fidelio causes 
the secret door below to open. The light will be 
visible even through the cracks of the pivot 
stone. 

CIO: Nowe So Blind 
As Tbe\? That WowT See 

After the party passes through the secret door 
into the torch-lit corridor, there is ominous 
rumbling near the pit, presaging a cave-in of 
large stone blocks that seals the corridor behind 
the PCs. Unless the PCs stay in or move into 
the area of sifting dirt and pebbles, the only 
effect is a minor dust cloud, which settles within 
2 rounds of the collapse. Those in the pit 
receive 2d6 points of damage from falling stone 
slabs. 


After a bit, the corridor opens up into a 
straight segment that ends after roughly 80'. Near 
the middle of this straight-away is a curtained 
alcove. Secret doors on the opposite sides of the 
corridor on either end hide basilisks. Unless dis 
covered through the usual means and opened by 
the PCs, the southern door opens 2 rounds after 
the last party member passes it. The northern 
secret door automatically opens 2 rounds later. 
Given the petrifying effect of the basilisk's gaze 
(only within a 50' range, or course), the PCs are 
likely to flee down the corridor or fight with 
averted gaze or closed eyes (normal penalties 
apply as if fighting in complete darkness, unless 
the blindfighting skill is successfully employed), a 
strategy complicated when the second basilisk 
comes lumbering toward them from the opposite 
direction. 

Eventually, PCs will investigate or flee into the 
curtained alcove. Doing this blindly (with 
averted or shut eyes) to avoid the basilisks' gazes 
will prove to be extremely dangerous, as the cur 
tain hides the shimmering curved surface of a 
prismatic sphere 10' behind it! The prismatic sphere 
completely blocks the corridor beyond. 

The prismatic sphere is of standard properties, 
blinding creatures of fewer than 8 Hit Dice that 
gaze upon it for 2d4 turns, and having the follow 
ing effects on those passing through its spectrum 
of colors, unless the colors are negated in order by 
use of the spells indicated below. 

Red 

20 hp damage; save versus spell for half; 

Negated by cone of cold 

Orange 

40 hp damage; save versus spell for half; 

Negated by gust of wind 

Yellow 

80 hp damage; save versus spell for half; 

Negated by disintegrate 



Green 

Save versus poison or die; successful save takes 

20 hp poison damage; Negated by passwall 

Blue 

Save versus petrification or turn to stone; 

Negated by magic missile 

Indigo 

Save versus wand or go insane; Negated by 

continual light 

Violet 

Save versus spell or be sent to another plane; 

Negated by dispel magic 

If they are able to deal effectively with the 
basilisks, the PCs may be quite reluctant to deal 
with the prismatic sphere until they have investi 
gated and determined that it apparently blocks 
their further progress through the gauntlet. Even 
then, the PCs might choose to wait to see if they 
can avoid the magic by mere patience. The total 
duration of the prismatic sphere is 3 hours and 20 
minutes (20 turns); roll ld20 to determine how 
many turns remain on its duration when encoun 
tered by the PCs. If the PCs do wait for the pris 
matic sphere to expire, however, they must react 
quickly to its expiration, as the magic has been 
cast by a mage hiding inside who immediately 
begins to recast the same spell, once the first 
expires. While the level of experience required to 
repeatedly cast such high-level magic may give 
the PCs pause, they do have the time to formu 
late plans, such as a quick rush beyond once the 
prismatic sphere dissipates, which is their best 
hope of survival. 

Make a surprise roll to determine if the PCs 
react to the dissipation before the caster does. If 
the PCs are surprised, roll for individual initia 
tives and add the casting time modifier of 7 of the 
spell to determine if any of the PCs move quickly 
enough to reach the mage (the prismatic sphere 


has a 10' radius) before the new prismatic sphere is 
cast. If the PCs are not surprised, they also have 
the round when the prismatic sphere dissipates to 
act or not, as the case may be. 

The prismatic spheres are cast by Elmontius 
Menditis, a 20th-level mage who was captured 
and tested by Fidelio a number of months earlier. 
A thoroughly obnoxious braggart and skilled 
practitioner before being tested, Elmontius fool 
ishly braved the perils of Undermountain alone, 
scoffing at all foes and obstacles he met in the 
early going. His boastful bragging (to himself, as 
no one else was with him) attracted the attention 
of Fidelio, who teleported Elmontius into the 
Obstacle Course. His failures here have pushed 
him to the brink of insanity. If the PCs reach 
Elmontius inside his prismatic sphere or before he 
can cast a new one, read the following: 

A gaunt and bedraggled-looking man stares 
at you vacantly, his head twitching involun 
tarily in a regular pattern. His once-fine 
magician's robes are in filthy shreds. Rotting 
crumbs of bread and cheese are scattered 
about him, along with a rusty iron pitcher 
filled with water. He reaches into a torn 
pocket and pulls out a lint-covered hunk of 
overripe cheese to nibble intermittently as 
he speaks to you in a high-pitched drone. 

"You'll not get me, no you won't. All die, 
all die, but I survive, survive in my pretty 
bubble with the colors. All the colors swirl 
for me and they speak to me, too. Let me 
show you the colors." 

Elmontius has indeed lived through the 
Obstacle Course, if you can call his present exis 
tence living. His sanity is gone and his magical 
abilities have waned during his sojourn here. As 
his spell components were used up, Elmontius 
was reduced to spells with only verbal and 
somatic components or spells with material com 
ponents to which he still had access. The tat- 



tered remains of his spellbook contain only the 
spells prismatic sphere (verbal components) and 
ventriloquism (verbal and material components; 
material component is a small cone of parch 
ment, explaining what happened to his spell- 
book). He studies these spells endlessly and casts 
them as frequently as possible. A wand of create 
food and water (18 charges left) is his only other 
significant possession. 

Elmontius now spends his time conjuring up 
prismatic spheres, which he then sits within, talk 
ing to the swirling colors with his ventriloquism. 
He is quite mad and will not willingly aid or 
accompany the PCs, who he treats as both friends 
and enemies (in alternating rounds) for no appar 
ent reasons. He happily casts prismatic sphere if 
given the chance, both unmindful of and pleased 
about the harmful effects it has on the PCs. The 
spell is his only weapon in his bemused insanity. 
If forced to by adverse circumstances, the PCs 
can easily dispatch the crazy old mage. In this 
case, they can recover the two spellbook frag 
ments, the wand of create food and water (com 
mand word "More"), and some filthy robes. If 
they attack him needlessly, however, Fidelio tele 
ports the PC who landed the killing blow to the 
slave quarters of a colony of mind flayers else 
where in Undermountain. 

Basilisks (2): Int Animal; AL Nil; AC 4; MV 6; 
HD 6 + 1; hp 43, 39; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 1- 
10; SA Gaze turns to stone (50' range), poison 
claws (+4 on save, save versus poison or die), poi 
sonous spit (5' range, +2 on save, save versus poi 
son or die); SZ M; ML 12; XP 975. 

Elmontius Menditis: LN hm W20; Int Very (but 
insane); AC 10; MV 9; hp 34; THACO 14; Dmg 
by weapon; SA Spells memorized: 2 prismatic 
sphere and 4 ventriloquism.; SZ M; ML 11. 


Mind Flayers (80): Int Genius; AL LE; AC 5; 
MV 12; HD 8 + 4; THACO 11; #AT 4; Dmg 2 + 











Stun; SA Mind Blast; ML 15 + Special; XP 
9,000. 

Cl 1: Out of the FiR\?)Ng Pan 

Once Elmontius' prismatic sphere is conquered 
and passed, the curtained alcove reveals an exit 
tunnel, which leads to a shifting stone slab (bend 
bars/lift gates roll to move). When the slab is 
pushed out of the way, the PCs find this tunnel 
intersects with a black, glassy, rock tube (actually 
a lava tube) that slopes down to the north (the 
PCs' left). After only a short distance in the 
uphill direction, the tube is blocked by an im 
passable cave-in. The tube continues unblocked 
in the opposite direction, however. Read the fol 
lowing: 

The air warms perceptibly as you make your 
way carefully along the tunnel; warm, sulfu 
ric mists waft past you unpleasantly. The 
mists condense on the glassy rocks, making 
the way even more treacherous, as the rock 
edges are all sharp angles uneroded by flow 
ing water. 

The PCs need to make Dexterity checks to keep 
their tenuous footing, taking ld4 points of dam 
age if they slip and fall. The lava tube ends 
abruptly at a wide ledge in a huge, deep cavern 
over a pool of molten, bubbling lava. PCs can 
notice a dull reddish glow coming from Room 
Cll as far as 40' away from the entrance to the 
area. When the PCs arrive, read the following: 

The tube ends at a ledge on a sheer cliff-face 
of glassy black rock, opening out onto a 
ledge. The ledge is about 200 feet above a 
massive pool of molten lava. The stench of 
sulphur is overpowering and the heat is 
intense- not enough to prevent you from 
passing through, but sufficient to keep you 
from tarrying here long. 


Eight ropes are staked to the ledge's edge, 
ranging from one to five feet apart from each 
other and sometimes crossing above or 
below each other. The ropes span the chasm 
to a ledge slightly above you on the other 
side. Several broken cords on either side give 
mute testimony to the ropes' dangers, and 
many look old, though most of them seem 
newer. All are very dried out due to the con 
stant heat of this volcanic inferno. 

Three lava tubes seem to exit the opposite 
cliff-face: one on the far right is at the edge 
of the lava; one is on the opposite ledge 
across from you where the ropes lead; and 
one below and to the left is about halfway 
above the white-hot liquid rock. Peering 
about, you see no other openings on your 
side of the cliff, aside from the one at which 
you stand. 

Several dangers face the PCs here. The center 
exit on the opposite ledge is a dead-end (and a 
roper's lair). Many ropes leading across the chasm 
are death-traps. The ledge where the PCs are 
standing (and 20' beyond it) is a magic-dead area, 
which cancels any active spells and prevents the 
casting of others. The far right opening at the 
lava's edge is guarded by three salamanders. 

The leftmost opening is the only true exit. The 
rope running from the right of the ledge to the far 
left of the opposite ledge is long enough that, if 
PCs hang onto it and cut the near end, they can 
swing across the chasm directly into the left-hand 
cavern on the opposite side. Other methods can 
also work (the successful crossing of other ropes 
to the far ledge and climbing down the cliff-face 
from there, levitation, flight, etc.), but most of 
these involve a) danger or b) abilities or spells 
the PCs might not have. Remember, too, that 
spells and magic cannot be used until PCs are 
more than 20' from the ledge with the magic- 
dead area around it. 

In the event the PCs examine or use the ropes. 



here are the details about them. The ropes are 
numbered from left to right. Each rope requires 
three breakage checks (every 20'; check with ini 
tial contact, one-third of the way across, and two- 
thirds of the way across) if climbed by a PC. The 
percentages listed are for one PC per rope, and 
are cumulative for each additional PC on that 
rope at the same time. 

Strength checks are needed whenever a rope 
breaks, to see whether the PC has maintained a 
hold on the rope. If the Strength check fails, a 
secondary check gives the character one last 
chance; if the second is successful, the PC's grip 
finally catches at the end of that part of the rope! 
Strength checks are also forced if other characters 
or things collide with PCs while holding onto the 
rope (like other PCs, cliff walls, missile weapons, 
etc.). If PCs collide with cliff walls after rope 
breakage, treat this as falling damage and roll ld6 
for every 10' the PC had to go before reaching 
the cliff (e.g. rope breaks 20' from cliff, PC makes 


Strength check and holds on, takes 2d6 points of 

damage upon impact). 

Rope 

Description; Direction/span of rope; Break %age 
at each interval; Effects of rope breakage. 

1 Old, somewhat worn rope; crosses from the 
left of the near ledge to the center of far ledge; 
15%, 40%, 15%; breaks between PC and near 
est ledge, swinging PC who hangs on into far 
ledge for 2d6 points of damage and 50% 
chance of losing consciousness. 

2 Old, but not worn; crosses straight across; 
10%, 30%, 10%; breaks in middle, swinging 
PC back toward the near cliff but tangling in 
other ropes - P C is left hanging in middle of 
chasm 10' below other ropes. 

3 New and unworn (partial cut near far side, not 
detectable from near ledge); crosses two ropes 
on track across; 35%, 75%, 35%; if breaks. 













does so at cut, swinging PC into near cliff for 
ld6 points of damage/10' fallen and 20% 
chance of losing consciousness. 

4 Old, but not worn; crosses almost straight, but 
has more slack than other ropes; 10%, 15%, 
10%; PC also must make 3 Dexterity checks 
to make sure swinging of rope does not cause 
PC to fall into lava pit. 

5 New and unworn, but dirty; crosses from left 
of center to right-hand opening; no chance of 
rope failure, but rope greased at central 20' 
(20' to 40'), requiring two Strength checks 
(-4 penalty) to hold on at the start and end of 
the greased section; failed Strength check 
results in fall into the lava unless precautions 
are taken. 

6 Old and rotted; crosses from right of center to 
middle opening; 60%, 90%, 65%; if rope 
breaks, it disintegrates in PC's hands, drop 
ping him or her to lava pit below. 

7 Old and thicker than other ropes, with de 
cided slack at the center; runs straight and is 
attached to a boulder on the right of the far 
ledge under most of the other ropes; no 
chance of rope failure, but far end is actually 
secured to a roper. The roper will drop the 
rope and snare the first PC who reaches the 
far ledge. 

8 New, not worn, but cut most of way through 
at near edge; crosses right to left under all 
other ropes with some slack; 100% chance of 
breakage, swinging PC or PCs into left-hand 
opening on far side; slack allows it to be cut 
and grabbed by all PCs on ledge before jump 
ing to swing across. 

If PCs reach the central ledge on the opposite 
side, they discover the opening is only a lO'-deep 
alcove. If the PCs linger on the upper ledge or 
venture close to the boulder near rope 7, the 
boulder is revealed as a roper that immediately 
attacks the PCs. If the PCs defeat the roper, they 
can find nine platinum coins and four gems (a 


3000gp diamond, two 30-gp topazes, and a 400-gp 
emerald) in its gizzard. 

If the low opening on the far right is ap 
proached, the PC or PCs are attacked by three 
salamanders, which rise from the lava at the edge 
of the opening (actually a 60'-long dead-end) and 
attack; one uses its metal spear and the others 
attempt to grab and throw PCs into the lava. 

Roper (1): Int Exceptional; AL CE; AC 0; MV 
3; HD 12; hp 81; THAC0 9; #AT 1; Dmg 5-20 
(bite); SA 1-6 Strands (1/rd) grapple and cause 
Strength drain (save vs poison each hit or lose V 2 
Strength for 2d4 turns); SD unaffected by light 
ning, V 2 damage from cold-based attacks, saves 
versus all fire-based attacks at a -4 penalty; SZ L; 
ML 15; XP 12,000. 

Salamanders (3): Int High; AL CE; AC 5/3; MV 
9; HD 7 + 7; hp 49, 41, and 32; THAC0 13; #AT 
2; Dmg 2-12, l-6(weapon), SA Heat 1-6; SD +1 
or better to hit; SZ M; ML 13; XP 2,000. 

Cl 2: A Wild Test 

The opening at the center of the cliff-face tun 
nels upward, curving on occasion, until it opens 
into some small caverns connected by obvious 
paths. The PCs soon enter a large cavern con 
taining a temple. 

You enter a large, oval cavern with a high 
ceiling. At the center of the cleared cavern 
is a large temple of gleaming white marble 
columns and polished benches. On the floor 
at the core of the temple, a rune is inlaid in 
fine silver. 

The rune is the warning for "Magic Here." As 
the PCs enter the room, a magic mouth in the 
floor immediately above the rune begins to 
speak: 





"You have been sorely tested and yet you 
have prevailed. Now the testing turns to 
those among you who wield magic. Your 
audience is the god Tyr. You mages can now 
offer up your power to Tyr in gratitude for his 
wisdom and in testament to your skill. If 
penitent souls cast magic thus in concert, 
the travails shall soon cease." 

Unfortunately, no one is watching except Fidelio; 
this is simply another test to see how gullible and 
conceited the PCs remain after their suffering 
thus far. There is no actual trap here, save that 
the entire cavern and temple area is an area of 
wild magic. The spellcasting PCs should declare 
their spells and intentions and obtain the inten 
tions and locations of the remainder of the party. 
See the chart on Effects of Wild Magic on the inside 
front cover of this booklet, roll normally for such 
effects, and apply the results. 

Regardless of whether or not the PCs cast 
spells, a secret door opens at the opposite side of 
the cavern 10 rounds after anyone approaches 
within 10' of the sigil. 

Cl 5.* CowsequewTUL Damages 


"Waste not your weaponry or your strength, 
for my affliction can be neither ended nor 
cured by those things. You were brought 
here by your own heady boasts to be shown 
the limits of your abilities and the depen 
dence that you have upon one another and 
those who grant you magic, skills, or weap 
onry. Many have aspired to prove themselves 
herein; many souls -some with power, 
magic, and legends far greater than your 
own-now rest here with me as testimony to 
their own conceit. You have proven your 
selves worthy in mine and Tyr's eyes; you 
were not spared at the god's whim, but by 
your own ability. Would that I had been able 
to do the same . . . 

"In one hour, a portal will appear on this 
dais to return you whence you came. You 
would do well to think on the consequences 
of a boastful nature during the interval, 
though you have proven yourselves worthy 
of some measure of pride. Take pride in your 
abilities and skills, but take care to not over 
burden yourselves with hubris and conceit, 
for they befit none and sully the worthy in 
lyr s eyes. 


After passage through tunnels with doors to 
nowhere, tripwires unconnected to any traps, and 
occasional magic mouths that laugh mockingly at 
them, the PCs enter into a long, low cavern with 
a stone dais at one end and a double row of graves 
stretching out into the dim reaches of the far end 
of the room. The graves have simple headstones 
inscribed with the names of the dead. Those 
names include some of power or notability, 
including a few names the players can recognize 
as heroic figures whose fates were unknown 
(repeat names from the book in Room Cl). 

As soon as the PCs enter, Fidelio's spectral fig 
ure appears floating slightly above the stone dais 
and speaks. 


With that, Fidelio's image disappears. Should 
the PCs attack him, he is unaffected by any of 
their weapons or magic. The only way to free him 
from his special spectral curse is self-sacrifice. If a 
PC, without prompting, volunteers to atone for 
his own boastfulness by taking Fidelio's place as 
the wandering soul of Undermountain, Fidelio is 
set free to his former life, at a place far from the 
dank terror of Undermountain; the PC is trans 
formed into a spectral NPC who continues Fide 
lio's tasks until similarly released. 

Though curiosity has killed many fewer cats 
than adventurers, some PCs may spend the hour 
investigating the cavern (there is nothing here 
other than rocks and the gravesites) and, per 
haps, attempting to loot the bodies of the dead 



heroes put to rest here. Any items or weapons 
buried with the dead heroes here are cursed. 
Thus, if the PCs loot the graves, they soon find 
that their pilfered items have less-than-beneficial 
aspects to them. Suggested curses and other 
harmful properties are below for the Dungeon 
Master(tm) to use. 

• The weapon deals double damage with suc 
cessful hits but steals the extra damage points 
from the hit point total of its wielder's nearest 
ally. 

• For each foe slain by this weapon, the wielder 

loses 1 point of Strength. 

• This ring of invisibility appears to work but 
allows foes of opposed alignments to see the 
wearer (that is, creatures of evil alignments 
can see a good ring-wearer and vice-versa). 

• This ring of regeneration acts like a normal 
item of the same name, but each regenerated 


hit point causes 2 points of damage to the per 
son most beloved by the wearer (be it wife, 
child, or king). 

• Apparently a holy weapon for a cleric, this 
magical mace shatters all holy symbols within 
100' when its use causes someone's (or some 
thing's) death. 

• This impressive magical holy symbol adds 4 
levels to a cleric's turning abilities, but attracts 
(and is totally useless against) vampires and 
liches. 

The portal appears as a shimmering glow upon 
the stone dais exactly one hour after the PCs first 
enter this room. The surviving PCs are returned 
to where Fidelio first found them. If any charac 
ters showed exceptional heroism, ability, and 
humility within the Obstacle Course, the DM(tm) 
can reward them with appropriate magical items 
as signs of Tyr's satisfaction in them. 





The WeLL of SbaAocus 


Terrain: Subterranean, semi-aquatic 

Party Levels: 42-56 (6-8 characters of 7th-level 

average) 

I toTnoducTio to 

S ome creatures have no concept of treasure. 
They have neither care nor use for magic, 
baubles, or coins. Such monsters are rarely targets 
of treasure seekers. Other monsters and creatures 
hoard treasure, guarding it from thieves and jeal 
ous rivals. Such beasts are often fearsome foes and 
are targets of only the most skilled (or foolhardy) 
adventurers. 

At least one monster, however, knows the 
meaning of treasure, collects it, and actively puts 
it away unguarded due to the painful memories of 
past lives the treasure represents. That monster is 
the shadow, who often disposes of treasure down 
a well in its lair. If adventurers can withstand the 
furious attacks of the shadow band living by their 
camp and use their heads, they could stand to 
collect a king's ransom! 

This adventure begins with an attack on the 
PCs' party by a roving band of shadows, some 
where in the foreboding confines of Undermoun 
tain, and leads to the "treasure well." It could be 
an easy retrieval, were all as it seems. Unfortu 
nately, this is Undermountain, and everything is 
more complex, more sinister, and more dangerous 
than initially meets the eye. 

H'id'itog ito 5hddouj$ 

T his battle occurs at any time a group of PCs 
are camped in the dungeon with only a 


flickering or fairly dim light source, such as a low 
fire or a few torches. Shadows can be clearly seen 
in bright light (such as a continual light or simi 
larly bright sources), and avoid attacking at such 
times. They also prefer attacking when at least 
some party members are asleep, meditating, pray 
ing, or otherwise distracted. 

The roving band of shadows in this section 
of Undermountain numbers nine strong. They 
are 90% undetectable as long as they attack in 
dim light. If seen, their appearance is either 
that of a simple shadow or a hideous, bipedal 
monster somewhat larger than man-sized, with 
muscular limbs and a tentacled and horned vis 
age with a massive, protruding jaw. The band 
will attack as many party members simultane 
ously as possible. 

The dim and flickering light makes for hyp 
notic, dancing shadows on the rock wall 
nearby, occasionally dulling your concentra 
tion when on watch. The light dance can be 
easily broken by a few abrupt motions from 
you, sending large, deep shadows skittering 
across the face of the rock to overwhelm the 
flickering variations of your light source. 
Suddenly, the dark shadows move in a man 
ner in concert with neither your movements 
nor the gentle dance of the flame. You feel a 
chilling touch and realize that monstrous, 
shadowy creatures are attacking! 

The shadows seek to create more of their kind 
by attacking party members and reducing their 
victims' hit points or Strength to 0 through 
their chilling attacks. They will also seize any 
treasure from their victim or the party and furi 
ously cast it away into a well nearby. The shad- 



ows retreat once they claim a victim or two, or if 
they suffer more than two losses among their 
own ranks. If pursued into their lair, they fight 
until dead (banished to the Negative Material 
plane). 

Shadow (9): Int Low; AL CE; AC 7; MV 12; HD 
3 + 3; hp 22 (x2), 21, 19 (x2), 16, 14, 12, 9; 
THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2-5, plus 1 point of 
Strength; SA Strength drain (2-8 turns duration); 
SD +1 or better weapon to hit; MR Immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, and cold-based spell attacks, 
but can be turned by clerics; SZ M; ML Special; 
XP 420. 

Keyed BtocouxtXens 

SI: WelispR^iog of D)sAsTeiz 

Whether the PCs defeat the shadows or simply 
allow them to retreat to their lair, it is important 
that the PCs come across the shadows' well, 
located just outside the entrance to the lair. 
Preferably, the PCs also witness the shadows 
flinging treasure furiously down the well, but, if 
that does not happen within the melee as it 
develops, simply have the PCs each make an 
Intelligence check to see if any have heard the 
legends of shadows' treasure hoards being kept at 
the bottom of wells. 

A 3'-high, 5'-diameter circle of flat stones 
clearly marks the confines of a pit in the 
floor, which on closer examination turns out 
to be a fresh-water well. There is a leaky 
wooden bucket tied to an old and frayed 
rope to one side of the well, but no winch 
with which to draw the water bucket up. 
There is about a 40' drop to the level of the 
water, all of that length being enclosed by 
uneven, piled flagstones. 










It is not easy to tell the depth of the water in 
the well, although it appears clear rather than 
polluted. Dropping a magical light source into 
the water or performing any similar test reveals a 
silvery shimmering perhaps 20 feet below the sur 
face of the water before the light fades from sight. 
The effect is actually caused by a gate filling the 
well's entire diameter, but let PCs believe they 
see the shimmering of silver, gold, and gems piled 
at the bottom of the well. 

Attempts to scoop up treasure with the rope 
and bucket prove unsuccessful, as both are rotted 
and disintegrate if touched. If a PC enters the 
water to look down, the PC can discern the sil 
very shimmering, but there is increased cloudiness 
in the water, apparently some sediment and debris 
kicked up by the PC's descent into the well. 

Keep track of the time spent underwater, should 
anyone descend into the well to recover the 
shadows' treasure. Unless they use some special or 
magical breathing devices, PCs can only hold 
their breath the number of rounds equal to one- 
sixth of their Constitution, rounded up. After 
that, they must make Constitution checks each 
round (-2 cumulative penalty for each ensuing 
round) or try to breathe, losing one-half their 
Strength and starting to drown in 1 round if air is 
not found. 

The water is cold and quickly becomes 
murky as your descent dislodges mud and 
debris from the flagstones making up the 
sides of the well. As you dive deeper, the 
water cools even more. When you are about 
20' down, you suddenly feel a brief tingling, 
then the water warms a bit. 

Unless carrying a light source, the submerged 
PC is also completely in the dark. If formerly 
connected to other PCs or the top of the well by 
a rope, it is suddenly slack, the other end abruptly 
severed. The PC has passed through a one-way 
gate. 


Any PC passing through this portal exits into a 
large submerged cave. The PC is still about 20' 
underwater, and the rock-face ceiling of the cave 
em has no air-pockets in which to surface other 
than the tiny pockets caused by the PC's own 
exhaled breath (50% chance to access without 
taking in water). If light permits, a pile of gold 
and silver coins -along with weapons and magi 
cal items -is visible on the cavern floor some 60' 
below. Treasure consists of 54 platinum pieces, 
323 gold pieces, 453 silver pieces, six silver dag 
gers, a short sword +1, 3 rubies (120 gp each), a 
potion of giant strength in a silver bottle, and a ring 
of jumping. 

A hole in the side wall of the cavern appears 
approximately 20' below and 20' to one side of 
the PC's initial location, from which a barely dis- 
cernable light emanates. This hole is the only 
exit to this natural spring. The 5'-diameter, 20'- 
long hole is magically trapped, however, about 
10' in from its opening to the pool. The trap 
automatically casts a slow spell on anyone passing 
the midpoint of the tunnel who does not make a 
successful saving throw versus spell (at a -4 
penalty). The spell) is cast at the 6th level of spell 
use, giving it a duration of 9 rounds. 

In the uncertain light and narrow confines of 
the tunnel, your progress seems to slow as 
you become more and more desperate for a 
breath of air. Your arms feel weighted down 
with lead, and the tunnel seems inter 
minably long. 

SSI: Colon Coonb )waXed 

The hole continues for approximately 10' past 
the slow trap, angling sharply upward before it 
opens up into a lO'-deep pool in a natural cavern 
filled with stalactites and stalagmites. 

The lO'-deep pool in which you surface is 
almost 20' in diameter, surrounded on two 




sides by steep, rock walls with the glossy 
sheen of mineral deposits from dripping 
water. The roof is covered with stalactites; 
numerous caramel-colored stalagmites form 
a "beach" on the remaining sides of the 
pool. A natural light seems to emanate from 
algae growing on the cavern ceiling and 
walls. The beach is gently sloped and color 
ful, ranging from dark yellow, to bright 
green, to grey and tannish-brown. Behind 
the beach is a natural tunnel opening to 
realms beyond. 

One round after the PCs have surfaced and 
viewed their surroundings, one of any of the PCs 
in the water is attacked by a crystal ooze living in 
the spring. It lurks exactly 5' to the right of the 
tunnel exit. 

Crystal Ooze (1): Int Animal; AL N; AC 8; MV 
1, Sw 3; HD 4; hp 16; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 
4-16; SA Poison (save versus poison or become 
paralyzed); SD Immune to acid, cold, heat, or fire 
attacks, while blows from weapons do only 1 
point of damage per hit; wooden weapons must 
save versus acid or be destroyed; SZ M; ML 10; 
XP 420. 

S3: On the Beach 

PCs exiting the water are not free from danger. 
While the brown areas of the beach (calcified 
deposits from dripping water) are safe, albeit slip 
pery, the rest of the beach is covered by various 
slimes, molds, and oozes as described below. If 
PCs attempt to cross over them or pass within 2', 
they attack (Dexterity checks are needed to avoid 
slipping and falling in areas of green slime). In 
fact, PCs attempting to exit the beach at the bor 
der of two different colors (i.e., different crea 
tures) may find themselves the target of two oozes 
in a tug-of-war for a victim. See map, p. 25. 


Green: Green Slime (1): Int Non; AL N; AC 9; 
MV 0; HD 2; hp 12; THACO 19; #AT 0; Dmg 
Nil; SA Turns everything that comes to it into 
green slime in 1-4 rounds, eats through 1' of 
wood/hour, dissolves metal quickly (plate armor 
in 3 rounds); SD Only affected by cure disease 
spells, though it can be scraped off or cut away 
quickly; SZ S; ML 10; XP 120. 

Gray: Gray Ooze (1): Int Animal; AL N; AC 8; 
MV 1; HD 3 + 3; hp 22; THACO 17; #AT 1; 
Dmg 2-16; SA Corrodes metal (chain mail in 1 
round, plate mail in 2 rounds, and magical armor 
in 1 round/each + to AC); SD Spells, and cold- 
and fire-based attacks have no effect, but light 
ning and weapons cause full damage (metal 
weapons are affected by corrosion); SZ M; ML 10; 
XP 270. 

Yellow: Ochre Jelly (1): Int Non; AL N; AC 8; 
MV 3; HD 6; hp 41; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 
3-12; SD lightning bolt divides creature in half, 
each half doing half damage thereafter; SZ M; 
ML 10; XP 420. 

SA: Osquipping Equipping 

The exit tunnel behind the beach is magically 
trapped, automatically casting a slow spell each 
round on each passing PC who fails a saving 
throw versus spell. The tunnel is 30' long, and 
given the wounded and possibly slowed state of 
some or all of the party of PCs, the PCs could be 
affected multiple times before exiting the oppo 
site end of the tunnel. Again, the duration of any 
successful slow spell is nine rounds. 

The tunnel opens into a natural cavern with 
two 8'-high exits, as well as numerous smaller 
tunnels about 2' in diameter each. Once the party 
moves more than 20' into the cavern, a pack of 
12 osquips rushes out of the 2' tunnels. Natural 
packrats interested only in bright, shiny objects, 
the osquips' goal is to strip the party of items of 



interest (to them), not to disable or harm. They 
defend themselves if attacked, fighting to keep 
"their" loot should anyone try to interfere with 
their liberation of available treasure. 

Although of only animal intelligence, the 
osquips have been here for some time and know 
of the slow effect of the nearby tunnel. Conse 
quently, the osquips avoid the tunnel and know 
that the adversaries who venture into this cavern 
are often incapable of protecting their treasure 
from the marauding osquip pack. Their goal is to 
strip the party of treasure and retreat into their 
small tunnelways before the effects of the slow 
spells wear off. 

Osquip (12): Int Animal; AL N; AC 7; MV 12, 
burrow Vr, HD 3 + 1; hp 22, 22, 20, 19, 19, 17, 16, 
14, 13, 13, 13, 11; THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg 2-12 
(bite); SZ S; ML 7; XP 120. 

S5: Cache of the Day 

The osquip tunnels are too small to traverse eas 
ily (about 2' to 3' in diameter, with occasional 
wider spots) and are extensively interconnected 
both with various other rooms in this area of 
Undermountain and with places of interest to an 
osquip (for example, a water source not sur 
rounded by dangerous oozes, access to even 
smaller osquip tunnels, and the osquip hatchery). 
PCs who are, or become, small enough to pass 
through the tunnels can eventually locate the 
cache of stolen items gathered by the osquips 
and return with some or all of it, depending on 
the means used to transport it and the survival of 
the PCs looting the hoard. 

If the PC or PCs traveling through the tunnels 
are barely small enough to fit, there is a 5% 
chance each round that they disrupt the ceiling 
or walls of the tunnel sufficiently to cause a cave- 
in. If this occurs, roll ldlO and apply the appro 
priate result. 


Die 

Roll Result 

1 Partial collapse of tunnel ahead of PCs. Forward 
progress may be made, but chance of further cave- 
in increases to 20% during next two rounds. 

2 Partial cave-in behind PCs. Passage back through 
still possible, with chance of cave-in increased to 
10% for 1 round if PCs pass back that way now 
or later. 

3 Complete cave-in behind PCs. Impassable unless 
PCs dig for 12 rounds, with standard chance of 
additional cave-ins while digging. 

4 Complete cave-in front of PCs. Impassable, even 
if PCs attempt to dig. 

5 5' section of tunnel collapses completely on PCs. 
Victims unable to dig (those without Strength 
scores of 16 or more, who can dig out in ld6 
rounds), but can be saved by others digging them 
out before suffocation occurs. Use rules, above, 
for holding breath underwater to determine how 
many rounds buried PCs can survive. 

6 Light sifting of dirt and rocks has no ill effect on 
PCs, but coincides with complete collapse of 
tunnel 70' ahead. 

7 Tunnel collapses into rat den containing 24 rats. 
PCs fall 5' onto mass of swarming rats (killing 
ld6 of them); they attack the PCs, but will not 
follow them back into the tunnels. 

(r) 20' section of tunnel collapses completely on 

PCs. Victims suffer ld6 points of crushing dam 
age and are unable to dig (without Strength of 
16 or more, see above), but can be saved by 
others digging them out before suffocation 
occurs. Use rules, above, for holding breath 
underwater to determine how many rounds 
buried PCs can survive. 

9 Tunnel collapses into rocky crevice 10' deep. 
Victims suffer ld6 points of falling damage and 
ld4 points of cutting damage from sharp rocks at 
bottom of crevice. 

10 Cloud of sifting dirt and dust covers ambush by 
six osquips from front of party, giving them auto 
matic surprise. 


A. 



PCs traveling the osquip tunnels also have a 
40% chance of encountering six osquips in the 
tunnels (rolling 4 or less on a dlO). If the osquip 
stash is located, it is guarded by half the osquips 
that survived the raid on the PCs, plus a half- 
dozen additional osquips. 

Should the PCs locate the osquip stash (see 
map for its location in the extensive osquip tunnel 
complex), they find the following items piled in a 
large, dug-out room with a small pool of water and 
natural algae luminescence: 112 pp, 1,046 gp, 
3,012 sp, 108 shiny cp, 11 gems (three 450-gp dia 
monds, five 225gp sapphires, two 80-gp pearls, 
and one 20-gp amethyst), seven marbles, three 
ivory scroll cases (one contains a 'protection from 
evil scroll, the others hold dust from crumbled 
parchment or maybe a map to another dungeon of 
the Dungeon Master(tm)'s devising), 16 shiny belt 
buckles with attached leather belts of various 
sizes, 19 daggers, two silver throwing daggers +1, six 
short swords, one silver wand (actually a wand of 
wonder with 18 charges), 54 tinder boxes, and 
three gold rings (including a ring of swimming). 

Rats (24): Int Animal; AL N; AC 7; MV 15; 
HD g; hp 2; THACO 20; #AT 1; SA 5% chance 
of disease; SA T; ML 4; XP 7. 

56: Sbouj Me a Way To Go Home 

After traversing additional tunnels and several 
rooms with nothing of interest save more osquip 
holes, the PCs will come to a large cavern filled 
with the debris of a recent cave-in at one end. If 
the PCs investigate the debris carefully or climb 
the pile to move some of the debris away, they find 
that the cave-in blocks a large, natural passageway. 
No fewer than 8 rounds of digging can clear 
enough debris to allow PCs to crawl past the cave- 
in. In addition, the PCs can use the osquip tunnels 
to circumvent the cave-in. There are no special 
dangers here, although any remaining osquips 
attack the PCs if the PCs raided their tunnels. 


Continuing down the previously debris- 
blocked tunnel leads to a shimmering gate that 
will take the PCs back to an alcove near where 
they were first attacked by the shadows. 

57: You D)rtty RaTVbk 

As the PCs move through various corridors and 
rooms, they eventually enter a large cavern with 
a ledge overhanging the entrance. As the party 
enters the room (and before all members are 
inside), read the following: 

A humanoid figure wearing filthy, ragged gray 
furs of some sort suddenly drops down from 
the ledge over the entryway, wildly announc 
ing his presence with a loud "Whooop!" that 
reverberates in the cavern. 

If the PCs do not kill the the figure outright, 
they can learn his story, addled though he is from 
his long confinement in this part of the dungeon. 
His name is Kearn, originally from Highmoon, 
and he is the half-elven former squire of Vicnar, a 
paladin who ventured into Undermountain with 
his small party of adventurers. They were attacked 
by the shadows, investigated the well for treasure, 
and eventually found themselves in the same 
predicament the PCs are currently in. Vicnar fell 
victim to the green slime as he exited the water 
and the rest of the party died fighting the other 
oozes, save Kearn, who decided to explore the 
osquip tunnels and never returned. Kearn has 
been living here since, catching rats for food, and 
waiting for someone he could join in attempting 
to find an exit. 

Kearn is unarmed and should be treated as a 0- 
level fighter with 6 hit points and a Dexterity of 
18. If he is not killed by the PCs and is treated 
well (with apologies and/ or healing for any dam 
age done him), he readily travels with the party 
and tells them what he knows of the tunnels, 
including the cave-in in S6 and the stone door, 
the salt, and the silence in Room S8. His rescue 




31 


may allow an appropriate PC to garner him as a 
henchman or aide. 

S8: STony SiLewce 

The tunnel you travel in is obviously worked 
stone, and it soon opens into a room carved 
out of solid rock. In the middle of the cham 
ber sits a circular black onyx dais or altar of 
some sort. A large mound of white powder 
and rock looms at one side of the dais. At the 


spells can only occur if the silence is eliminated. 

Fortunately, the writing on the stone door 
gives a clue as to how to eliminate the silence, as 
it reads, in Gnome: 

The secrets of a black heart are kept in 
sealed silence, to be spoken only when 
washed with the salty tears of forgiveness, 
allowing all to be dispelled and forgotten, 
and making the center of being again pure 
and white. 


far end stands a sliding stone door of im 
mense proportions with writing on it. As 
soon as you enter the room, there is complete 
and utter silence. 

The silence is magical in nature, and extends 
throughout the room; this continues as long as any 
portion of the onyx dais remains uncovered by salt 
(the rock and pile of white powder). The sliding 
stone door is magically sealed and can be opened 
only with a dispel magic or knock spell; both of these 


In addition, careful examination of the dais 
reveals grains of salt in the crack where it joins 
the stone floor. This should suggest to PCs that 
salt has previously been spread over the dais. 

Once the silence is gone and the magical seal of 
the stone door is broken, the door easily slides 
aside, revealing a gate. This is a permanent two- 
way portal that takes the party somewhere in 
Undermountain determined by the DM (not back 
to where the PCs encountered the shadows). 


S8 Silenced Cavern 

: ' *VT 

// 


j>f Silence 


.* 1 

; / 

* ] 
: ( 

: 

• ; ¦¦¦ ' - - " - i 

\ ( 

5 i 

\ 

: It 

: ' . • ¦ . Ji 

•A 

/1 


-TV 


iny* D| 


\ 

' few ¦>$ 4; \l v#- U vku ,-pt- 

' " :¦ ; > - - - 
^ \ : : :V '' 

\ \ 

I \ 

L % 

1 1 

I-I 

I • 


lilyTsejaTeq Slidiriig §tone1lo< 


i ! 

i i i 
/ "!" 


epbrt | 


ar.fr* <rv:;V: 


*.*••*¦** 







ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and FORGOTTEN REALMS are registered trademarks owned Gy 
TSR. Inc Tha TSR logo is a urad&wafk owned E5y TSR. Inc. 1904 TSR, Inc. All Right* Reserved 

1104X3X1902 


Bi-Nou 


1104 


(tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 
TREASURE TYPE: 
ALIGNMENT: 

Bi-nou 

Subterranean 

Rare 

Solitary or clan 

Any 

Carnivorous 

Very (11-12) 

Special 

Chaotic evil 

Rockworms 

Subterranean 

Very Rare 

Solitary 

Any 

Carnivorous 

Low (5-7) 

Special 

Chaotic evil 

Rocklords 

Subterranean 

Very Rare 

Solitary 

Any 

Omnivorous 

Semi (2-4) 

Special 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 or 2-8 

1 or 2 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

1 

-2 

-4 

MOVEMENT: 

6 

9 

6 

HIT DICE: 

5+5 

7 

10 

THAC0: 

15 

13 

11 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

2 

2 

2 

DAMAGE/ATTACKS: 

1-8/1-8 

1-12/1-12 

3-18/3-18 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Squeeze, spells 

Spells 

Spells 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Special 

Special 

Special 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

20% 

20% 

30% 

SIZE: 

M (5'-7' tall) 

M (5'-7' long) 

L (S'-15' long) 

MORALE: 

Elite (13-14) 

Champion (15) 

Champion (15) 

XP VALUE: 

975 

2,000 

5,000 


No one knows exactly what the bi-nou are or how they came 
to be. Most sages believe bi-nou are living rocks created by 
some dark experiments of the Drow. There are some visitors to 
Undermountain, however, who swear the rock creatures were 
spawned by Halaster to act as guardians; they say that, while 
malign, Drow are not known to create living tilings out of such 
crude matter. A more recent theory gaining popular support is 
that the bi-nou found beneath Waterdeep are the handiwork 
of one man-a wizard named Spite who lives deep within 
Undermountain. The sorcerer, considered one of Halaster's 
newest associates, spends much of his time on his experi 
ments-coaxing inanimate objects to life. 

Appearing as craggy columns with two short, jagged arms 
ending in spiky claws, bi-nou are often difficult to spot in dark 
caverns. They look like stalagmites, their shapes rendering 
them practically invisible in a cavern with rocky outcroppings, 
natural stalactites, and stalagmites (70% chance not to be 
noticed). Standard bi-nou range from five to seven feet tall and 
weigh from 600 to 1,000 pounds. Their rocky skin varies in 
color from off-white to dark gray, and they prefer to live in 
underground chambers where the natural rock color mimicks 
their own. 

Bi-nou do not see or hear by conventional means, and are 
effectively deaf and blind. However, they sense heat and 
vibrations, having a form of batlike sonar. Their unique senses 
give them clear mental images of the size and shape of victims 
within a range of 80' and can distinguish between living and 
non-living matter. Humans and demrhumans using invisibility, 
darkness, or light spells gain no advantage against bi-nou due 
to the creatures' blindness. The bi-nou communicate telepathi- 
cally in their own language and in Drow, as they possess nei 
ther mouths nor vocal cords. Further, bi-nou's minds are 
different from other creatures' and thus immune to mind- 
affecting spells and psionic attacks. 

They hate all warm-blooded life - especially humans and 
humanoids, who hunt and steal their gem-like eggs. Bi-nou do 
not hesitate to attack groups of humanoids, even if the odds 
are against the rock creatures. Only sick bi-nou or the very 
young fail to attack trespassers in their domain. 

Several types of bi-nou have been documented in deep sub 
terranean caverns, the most noted of these being standard bi- 
nou, rockworms, and rocklords. These documentations are all 


relatively recent, none older than 50 years. There has been 
only one reported sighting of a bi-nou or a similar creature 
outside Undermountain, though this is unconfirmed. Sages 
speculate that the creatures can only be found in Halaster's 
domain, and perhaps would die if removed from the dungeon; 
whether this is an aspect of the creatures' construction, or per 
haps of the extensive magics that permeate Undermountain, is 
inconclusive due to the limited information at hand. 


Combat: Bi-nou do not work together to attack their foes. 
They act independently, using their natural spells and claw 
like appendages to kill all living creatures entering their cav- 

















1104 


Bi-Nou 


ems. Sages believe that when multiple bi-nou are present, they 
make contests of the killings, though all slain creatures are 
consumed as food. If the creatures were tampering with bi- 
nou eggs, there seems to be even a bit of malicious enjoyment 
in the kill. 

Despite their chaotic natures, some bi-nou have learned to 
hold their attacks until creatures move within 40 feet; this 
ives the monsters time to examine their targets. Bi-nou often 
egin their assault with their innate spell abilities. Each of the 
following spells is useable once a day as if cast by a lOth-level 
wizard: slow, dig, stone shape, and wall of stone. Although bi-nou 
have natural magic resistance, certain spells can be deadly to 
the rock creatures if they take effect. Passwall stuns them for 1- 
4 rounds but cancels its normal effects, and rock to mud slays 
them instantly. Stone shape operates as a heal spell, restoring all 
but 1-4 of the bi-nou's hit points. 

When foes are within striking range of a bi-nou, the rock 
creature fights with its jagged limbs. If both limbs strike the 
same target, the bi-nou snares its opponent and hugs it against 
its rocky body, squeezing the air out of it. Victims suffer an 
additional 1-8 hit points of damage per round until they free 
themselves with a successful bend bars/lift gates roll, the bi- 
nou is killed, or they suffocate. 

Habitat/Society: Bi-nou are found either individually or in 
small family groups. Individuals tend to be rogue young or 
outcast adult bi-nou. Groups are ruled by the largest bi-nou, 
and the leader's clan follows orders without question (save 
those pertaining to combat). The leader selects the cavern lair, 
determines which of his charges warm the eggs, and metes out 
punishment if eggs are harmed or stolen. Any bi-nou clan will 
have 2-8 eggs, each valued at 100-1,000 gp. The eggs are hard 
and faceted like gems, and are prized by dwarves, who have 
come to recognize their value and rareness. 

Bi-nou prefer damp, drafty caverns, where it is easier to 
sense their prey. Such a cavern is likely to hold remnants of 
weapons and armor, as the bi-nou consume humans and other 
beings and animals by absorbing them, but can't eat their 
metal coverings and weapons. The rock creatures don't value 
these discarded "unlife things," though they have learned that 
other living beings-especially humans and demihumans - 
are attracted to the objects. Bi-nou have been known to use 
their stone shape ability to put the metallic leftovers on rocky 
pedestals to attract the attention of passing adventurers. 

Bi-nou also have been known to ally with Drow-when the 
number of dark elves is sufficient to pose a serious threat to 
their clan. The bi-nou act as sentries for Drow communities 
and outposts, attacking and devouring trespassers, including 
Drow who do not belong to the community they guard. A few 
bi-nou even act as guards for the dark elves, moving through 
the underground caverns and battling creatures that threaten 
the Drow. Many suspect the bi-nou's ties to the Drow were 
established by their creator, Spite, who spent his youth in the 
Underdark in the company of the dark elves. 

Ecology: Bi-nou are carnivorous, savoring the taste of animal, 
human, and demihuman flesh. They devour their victims by 
moving their forms over the bodies and absorbing all flesh. 
Metal and other nonliving substances are left behind. Thus, a 
bi-nou's treasure consists of unfortunate adventurers' gear 
and the rock creatures' eggs. Most equipment is worthless, 
since it is damaged when the rock creatures absorb their prey. 
However, magical equipment tends to stay in reasonable 
shape. Many bi-nou corpses are used by dwarven builders 
(especially duergar) as solid stone building materials. 

Bi-nou are hunted by dwarves, particularly duergar, who 
have discovered the rock creatures' eggs are valuable and that 


armor and weapons can be found in some lairs. The eggs are 
prevented from hatching by keeping them cold for many 
hours, killing the young inside. This ensures the eggs retain 
their gemlike appearance and value. Bi-nou eggs vary in size 
and color, the younger eggs being smaller but of brighter hue 
while the older eggs are larger but lose much of their sheen. 

Rockworms 

Closely related to standard bi-nou, rockworms appear as stone 
snakes with arms, rather than stalagmites, moving along the 
ground like reptiles. Rockworms are not capable of upright 
stance. They travel like ungainly snakes along cavern floors, 
using their jagged arms to help propel them. Sages speculate 
that rockworms are the predecessors of standard bi-nou, mag 
ically-created beings with which their maker or makers were 
not satisfied. This is not true, however. Rockworms and bi-nou 
were created simultaneously from different experiments. 

Rockworms are malicious, seeming to hate all creatures that 
walk rather than crawl. Their attacking small groups of stan 
dard bi-nou to vie for cavern territory or to claim food killed 
by their upright kin is not unheard of. Like bi-nou, the rock 
worms particularly hunt out humans and demihumans as 
thieves of their eggs. Unlike the bi-nou, rockworms do not 
attempt to hide in their surroundings-they lumber to the 
attack as soon as they see a potential meal. Rockworms do not 
fear alerting their prey to their presence. The segmented crea 
tures know their thick skin is impervious to most attacks and 
believe they can eventually overtake most quarries. 

Like standard bi-nou, rockworms lay valuable eggs. How 
ever, unlike their kin, they warm their own eggs, leaving them 
only for short times to catch nearby food. In this respect they 
act as parents, while standard bi-nou are assigned to egg 
warming duty and never know which young are their own. 
Dwarves are more careful when hunting rockworms. 
Although the stone snakes are less intelligent, they can be 
more deadly. 

Rocklords 

More massive than rockworms, the "lords of stone" (as many 
call them) are deadly foes because of the massive amount of 
damage the stony appendages can deliver. Appearing as a sta 
lagmite with larger limbs than a standard bi-nou, these crea 
tures can move upright or slither across the floor. In addition, 
their thick hides make them very difficult to injure. 

Sages believe rocklords are simply very old rockworms. 
They do not lay eggs and they refuse to associate with others 
of their kind. However, unlike rockworms, the lords will not 
battle over possession of a cavern. 

These great, craggy creatures are especially prized by 
underground races who mount war bands to destroy the 
beasts. These bands are careful how they attack the lords, as 
they do not want to overly damage the hide. The bodies of the 
lords are used to construct special buildings meant to keep 
others out. These bodies are stronger and can withstand more 
weight and damage than those of rockworms or standard bi- 
nou. 

It is rumored that certain proficient dwarven weaponsmiths 
can create special maces from the skin of rocklords. The smiths 
claim these weapons are naturally +1 to hit and +3 to damage 
because of the density of the weapon and the magical proper 
ties of the rocklord. However, it takes three times as long to 
craft one of these weapons as a normal weapon. 



Fish, Subterranean 


1104 


TM & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Wattley 

Lemon Iridescent Plecos 

Underground pools, streams, and rivers 

FREQUENCY: 

Rare 

Uncommon 

Very Rare 

ORGANIZATION: 

School 

Solitary 

School 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

Omnivorous 

Night 

Any 

DIET: 

Carnivorous 

Omnivorous 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Semi- (2-4) 

Non- (0) 

Animal (1) 

TREASURE TYPE: 

Special 

Nil 

Special 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral 

Nil 

Neutral 


NO. APPEARING: 

10-40 

1-3 

10-100 

ARMOR CLASS: 

8 

6 

9 

MOVEMENT: 

Sw 18 

Sw 24 

Sw 12 

HIT DICE: 

1 

4-9 

1-1 

THAC0: 

19 

5-6 HD: 15 

7-8 HD: 13 

9 HD: 11 

4 HD: 17 

20 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

2 

2 

DAMAGE/ATTACKS: 

1-2 

7-8 HD: 2-12 

9 HD: 2-16 

4-6 HD: 2-8 

1 /Nil 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Paralysis 

Poison 

Disease 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Nil 

Special 

Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

40% 

Nil 

SIZE: 

T (6"-l') 

S-M (2'-6') 

T (6"-2') 

MORALE: 

Steady (11) 

Steady (11) 

Elite (13) 

XP VALUE: 

35 

5-6 HD: 420 

7-8 HD: 975 

9 HD: 1,400 

4 HD: 270 

35 


Although many fish species are unique to subterranean fresh 
waters, three varieties in particular pose problems to creatures 
that pass through Undermountain's waterways: they are the 
wattley, the lemon fish, and the iridescent plecos. These fish 
are found in bodies of water where luminous lichen or other 
sources provide a setting that approximates natural lighting. 
They particularly thrive in the underground caverns of Under 
mountain where the forest streams of Wyllowwood and the 
River Sargauth flow. 

While not as vicious as barracuda or piranha, these fish are 
carnivorous and enjoy the taste of flesh, attacking creatures of 
rat size and larger (even larger than themselves) when they 
are hungry. They can subside on creatures smaller than that 
but they must eat a large amount to provide a good meal. The 
fish are docile and nearly harmless if they have fed recently. 


Wattley 

Perhaps the most beautiful of the subterranean fish, wattleys 
are oval-shaped, looking like near-circles with sharp, tiny 
teeth and lacy fins. The fish are from one to three inches thick. 
Brilliant stripes cover their bodies, and have caused sages to 
believe there are several varieties of wattleys. Green, blue, and 
brown striped fish have been caught, and rare solid blue and 
green wattleys have been seen. 

These are clearly the most intelligent of the subterranean 
fish. Led by a single fish, usually the largest and oldest (deliv 
ering 1-4 points of biting damage because of its size), they con 
gregate in groups of 10 to 40 where they will be safer from 
predators. At night, schools come together in larger groups for 
even greater protection, numbering as many as 300 fish alto 
gether. 








Fish, Subterranean 


1104 


Wattleys are voracious eaters, consuming at least their 
weight in food every three days. The bite of a wattley contains 
a paralytic venom. All creatures of 2 Hit Dice or fewer are 
automatically paralyzed if bitten by one of these fish. Crea 
tures of greater Hit Dice must make a successful saving throw 
versus poison or fall unconscious in the water for 3-18 (3d6) 
rounds, minus a number of rounds equal to their Hit Dice. A 
save must be made for each bite inflicted by the fish. An entire 
school hunts for prey, using their paralytic bites to bring down 
large targets so all members can feed. 

Unsuspecting adventurers wading through underground 
rivers and streams have found themselves floating helpless in 
the water after a single bite from these fish. Creatures not able 
to breathe water often drown before the paralysis wears off. 
Wattleys mate for life, and each pair produces 10-100 eggs 
every three months, with 10d4 surviving to reach maturity. 

Despite the danger, wattleys are hunted by humans and 
demihumans traveling underground. These hunters throw 
small animals and fresh meat into water inhabited by the fish. 
When the fish eat and become sated, the fishermen wade into 
the water and net as many fish as possible before they flee. 
The flesh of wattleys is delicious, and their organs are used in 
the creation of paralytic poisons and salves. In addition, their 
scales are used to decorate clothing and jewelry. Live wattleys 
can be sold for 2-12 gp apiece (depending on size and col 
oration) to wealthy surface dwellers who stock the fish in 
ponds and indoor tanks. In captivity, wattleys live 2-8 years, 
opposed to 15 years in their normal habitat. Wattley eggs are 
delicacies, commanding as much as 1,600 gp per pound 
(roughly 800 eggs). 

Wattleys' major predators include Drow and duergar (who 
use the fish as a source of food and poison), and lemon fish, 
which prey upon the smaller schools. The fish are also prized 
because of the treasure sometimes found inside. The wattleys 
are drawn to shiny objects, and larger specimens can swallow 
pearls, small gems, and other tiny valuables. The objects 
become lodged inside the fish, and the fish must be gutted to 
retrieve any valuables. Only one in 20 fish (1 on ld20 roll) has 
swallowed something of value (DM's choice of items). 

Lemon Fish 

Named for the bright yellow scales that cover much of their 
bodies, lemon fish are among the most vicious predators in 
subterranean fresh waters. They vary widely in size, with 
adults ranging anywhere from 2' to 6' long. Unlike other fish, 
the size of a lemon fish is not indicative of its age. The 
strongest of the fish feed more often, and therefore grow to 
become stronger still and vastly more dangerous. 

Lemon fish are pleasing to the eye. Those looking through 
the water at them have said they resemble living gold pieces. 
The dorsal fin, tipped with black like all the others, resembles 
that of a shark when it breaks the surface of the water. The tail 
of a lemon fish is covered with yellow and black barbs, with a 
thin spike up to two feet long extending beyond the tail. Its 
eyes are black saucers that close when the fish moves forward 
for a kill. The damage of a lemon's bite is proportionate to its 
size, the largest of the lemons inflicting 2-16 (2d8) points of 
damage from their double rows of teeth. 

Regardless of its size, the lemon is able to inflict two attacks 
per round-its vicious bite and a tail slap that causes points of 
damage equal to the fish's Hit Dice. For example, a 7 HD 
lemon has a tail slap that inflicts 7 points of damage each time 
it hits. The damage is caused by the needlelike spike and the 
barbs. Victims struck must also save versus poison or suffer 
ld6 points of damage for as many subsequent rounds as the 
fish has Hit Dice (i.e. 7 HD attack causes 7 points of tail slap 
damage plus 7d6 points of poison damage). 


Lemons also possess a defense that comes into play when 
the fish's body is punctured. The injured fish instinctively 
releases a filmy liquid that expands into a sphere twice the 
diameter of the fish's length (e.g. a 2' fish creates a 4' spherical 
area of effect). Those caught in the sphere must save vs. poison 
at -4 or be stunned for ld4 rounds, often allowing the bleed 
ing fish to flee. If other lemons are swimming with the injured 
fish, they usually attack the stunned creature, since they are 
immune to their own poisons. 

Lemon fish are usually solitary, and never more than three 
are found together. Generally, these fish are of 7 HD or fewer. 
The largest of the fish always hunts alone. 

The flesh of a lemon fish is tough and generally inedible, 
though the organs of the fish are tasty and prized by duergar 
and Drow. The fish's toxicity is lost after its death, so consum 
ing the animal poses no threat. Lemons lay eggs up to four 
times a year, with each instance yielding 100-600 eggs. Only 
ten out of 100 young survive to reach adulthood. The eggs of 
the lemon are edible and command up to 400 gp a pound, 
which is roughly 600 eggs. 

Iridescent Plecos 

These beautiful fish are shaped similar to barracudas, their 
long, tapered bodies covered in shimmering scales; their 
graceful movements along the bottoms of shallow streams and 
ponds remind onlookers of a long stream of sparkling dia 
monds. They are often found in schools of 10 to 100, though 
some fishermen claim to have spotted larger schools. Most 
often, it is their diamondlike scales that lure many humans 
and demihumans into the water to catch the fish, though few 
of them return. 

Iridescent plecos range from 6" to 2' long and can be quite 
deadly The fishes' teeth are little more than a dull bony ridge; 
the bite of a pleco inflicts no damage, regardless of its size, as 
it uses its mouth to hold its prey. However, under each pleco's 
chin are spiked barbels: whiskerlike tendrils. On a successful 
bite, the barbels pierce the victim's skin around the bite and 
inject a violent venom. Creatures injected with pleco venom 
must make a saving throw versus poison with a -4 penalty. 
Those who are successful suffer no ill effects. However, crea 
tures failing the save suffer a debilitating disease that sets in 
two hours after injection. An affected character loses 1 point of 
Strength and Constitution each per day until death (when one 
of the scores reaches 0). The disease can be cured up to 72 
hours after injection; after that time, the damage is considered 
irreversible and fatal. Victims with the venom in their system 
for more than three days literally wither away 

Iridescent plecos are non-aggressive. They attack primarily 
in self-defense, such as if they are stepped on or if a creature is 
trying to catch them. Bottom feeders, the fish scavenge rotting 
flesh and plants and other objects thrown into the water; they 
do not go after live prey Ofttimes their food is tainted or rot 
ten, making their flesh inedible. Some believe this is also what 
causes their venom to be so potent and virulent. 

Thanks to this inedible quality, iridescent plecos have few 
predators. Humans and demihumans have tried to preserve 
their glistening, gemlike skins to no avail; the lustre leaves the 
skins upon death, and the fish itself is malodorous. The only 
profit gained from encountering this fish is its eggs, which 
many assassins use as a debilitating poison. There are also 
rumors of a mage loose in Undermountain (and perhaps 
Waterdeep) who uses the eggs as material components for a 
very advanced ray of enfeeblevient spell; these rumors are cur 
rently unsubstantiated. 



Flareater 


1104 


& (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 
TREASURE TYPE: 
ALIGNMENT: 


Subterranean 
Very rare 
Solitary 
Any 

Omnivorous 
Average (8-10) 
Nil 

Neutral 


NO. APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 
SIZE: 

MORALE: 

XP VALUE: 


1-4 

0 

15 

6 (see below) 

12 

1 

3-12 

Surprise, spells 
Immune to heat & flame 
Special 
M (6' wide) 

Elite (13-14) 

1,400-2,400 


Flareaters, some of the most deadly underground denizens, 
appear to be related to green slime-they may be slime altered 
into new forms and given intelligence by magical experi 
ments. Though actually deep emerald green, flareaters' glossy 
hides seem almost black in the dark dungeons. A single 
flareater rarely exceeds 6' across, and they are no more than 
three inches thick. They are unnaturally warm to the touch. 
Flareaters thrive in damp, subterranean places, where they 
ooze freely over all surfaces, searching for sources of light. 

Their bodies' fluid nature allows the creatures to move at a 
surprisingly quick rate compared to other slimes and jellies. 
Like running water, they can overtake their quarry. Those who 
witness flareaters say their movement is unnerving, like 
watching dark, evil water flowing over stone walls. 

Flareaters have no verbal language. It is believed they com 
municate with each other by sending pulsating ripples 
through their forms. Intelligent, they are organized, methodi 
cal, and eternally hungry, ever searching for their favorite food 
source-light. 

All flareaters are asexual. They produce by division, like an 
amoeba, when special conditions are met. This is explained in 
the Combat section. 


Combat: Like green slime, flareaters can drop onto their vic 
tims; those victims receive a -3 to surprise rolls. However, 
flareaters can also follow their intended targets, running like 
water along a cavern floor or ceiling while gauging their foes' 
strengths and determining the best initial targets. 

Flareaters adhere to flesh, and dissolve that flesh into their 
own systems in 2-16 melee rounds (no saving throw). 
Flareaters can eat through one inch of metal in 4 melee 
rounds; magical bonuses delay this process, adding 1 round 
per magical plus of the metal. They also dissolve one inch of 
wood in 6 melee rounds, and one inch of leather or leather 
like substances in 8 melee rounds, again adding 1 round per 
magical plus of the material. Unlike green slime, flareaters 
cannot easily be removed by scraping with metal, wood, or 
leather scrapers; the creature will attempt to dissolve any 
such item. Flareaters will flow over a victim, probing weak 
spots in armor or clothing; they are smart enough to attack 
bare flesh first, ensuring that other items remain for later con 
sumption. 



If a flareaters target is carrying a light source, the creature 
takes a different combat tactic. The creature moves over a light 
and drops down on it, smothering the torch or lantern; it is not 
harmed by flames. For each nonmagical light source a flareater 
engulfs, it gains 1 Hit Die. Flareaters also devour magical light 
by moving into the area of effect, absorbing the magical light, 
and cancelling its effects. Flareaters are immune to damage 
from all light and heat related spells, including fireballs, Melfs 
minute meteors, frame strike, and others. Cold-based spells para 
lyze the creatures for 2-8 rounds. The following spells aid the 
creature's growth by 1 Hit Die per spell absorbed or cast at it: 
dancing lights, glitterdust, faerie fire, and moonbeam. Light, contin 
ual light, and sunray cause it to grow by 2 Hit Dice. THACO 
adjusts to the creature's current Hit Dice totals. 

When the monster reaches 12 Hit Dice, it splits in two, creat 
ing two 6-HD creatures. The division process takes 4 full 
rounds; once the process begins, it cannot be halted. If the 
original flareater is damaged during this time, simply divide 
its total hit points between its two offspring. 

Habitats ociety: Flareaters exist solely to eat and increase 
their numbers, so they are always in search of prey. They live 
in damp, underground caverns, though drawn to light for 
food. Some sages suspect flareaters could evaporate with long 
exposure to full sunlight, their fluid bodies being better suited 
for the damp atmosphere and darkness of the caverns. 

A maximum of four flareaters can be encountered living 
together. Flareaters tend to limit their numbers in one area to 
ensure proper amounts of food for each individual creature. 
However, it is rumored that large colonies of flareaters exist 
deep underground, in the lowest levels of Undermountain. 

Ecology: Wizards have been known to hunt flareaters in the 
hopes that the creatures' remains (or a live specimen) can be 
used as components in spells like create darkness and 
s hapechange, and potions that grant immunity to fire. 













Mimic, Greater 


1104 

& (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 


Subterranean 
Very Rare 
Solitary 



Very (12-14) 

Incidental 

Neutral 


NO. APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 
SIZE: 

MORALE: 

XP VALUE: 


1 


15-16 

5 

1 

6-24 

Glue 

Camouflage 

10 % 

H 

Fanatic (17) 
7,000-8,000 


Given the magical origins of the mimic, finding mutations of it 
comes as no surprise within the Realms' greatest dungeon. 
Found exclusively in Undermountain (as of now), greater 
mimics are presumed to be either common mimics that have 
survived for a century or more and grown to great size, or 
mimics altered by the strange magics of the dungeon and its 
wizardly denizens. Like their more common cousins, greater 
mimics have a hard, rock-like outer shell surrounding a mass 
of soft inner organs; however, greater mimics have a higher 
Intelligence and a limited magic resistance. Greater mimics are 
also vastly larger, occupying 1000 cubic feet (or more!), and 
can cover whole rooms or small buildings like tombs. The 
largest known specimen (allegedly found in the dungeon's 
lowest levels) can cover as much as a 30' x 30' x 30' area. 

While common and killer mimics alter their pigmentation to 
resemble stone, wood, or metals, the greater mimic can alter 
its coloring and shape to imitate a vast number of textures, col 
ors, and shapes at once. Common mimics imitate chests and 
doors; with its Intelligence and augmented abilities, the 
greater mimic can create entire rooms of furniture, treasure, 
and tapestries. A greater mimic rarely disguises itself as only a 
mound of treasure, as that still offers adventurers and other 
food the chance to escape; by blocking a corridor and altering 
its shape to become a room with entrance doors on either side, 
its prey walks directly into it and guarantees easy capture. In 
larger caverns or halls, the greater mimic shapes itself into a 
burial alcove or a cave against a rocky wall. Regardless of its 
exterior, the "interior" disguise always has simulated treasure, 
furniture, and other enticements to lure in prey 

Combat: Greater mimics surprise their victims easily (-6 to 
victims' surprise rolls). Intelligent and patient, they wait until 
an entire group is inside the "room" before attacking. When 
ready to attack, they release natural adhesives across all the 
surfaces, holding their victims fast while they attack by slam 
ming the "walls" of their structure together, causing 6-24 
points of damage to all creatures trapped inside (to unknow 
ing adventurers, it seems like the room implodes on them!). 
Like that of the common mimic, the greater mimic's adhesive 
can be weakened by alcohol in 3 rounds. If any creatures 
remain outside the structure, they close all their "openings" 
and seal their dense outer hide (AC 2 vs. external attacks). 
Their internal armor class is 5. 



Habitat/Society: Greater mimics live in the subterranean cav 
erns and ancient halls of Undermountain. They are almost 
immobile due to their great size and seldom move at all once 
they have chosen a living place. They are intelligent enough to 
make pacts with any groups of creatures within the same area, 
and often exchange treasure (which they cannot digest) for 
food; however, they are solitary creatures, simply to ensure a 
ready food supply It is often worthwhile for a group of adven 
turers to bribe a greater mimic rather than slay it, as it has likely 
gathered a great deal of information about the surrounding area 
over the years. These creatures can often be persuaded to sell 
their incidental treasures for food and information. 

Ecology: Greater mimics have a profound impact on the local 
ecology wherever they reside. They have prodigious appetites, 
but can sustain themselves on little or no food for long periods 
of time. This is not a preferred choice, however, and they do 
not practice conservation if a steady food supply is at hand. 
They are intelligent, efficient predators. 

Though common mimics were created by wizards as 
guardians, the greater mimic is rarely used as such. This, quite 
simply, is due to the fact that few wizards can get these crea 
tures to obey them. Only Halaster himself uses them as guards, 
set up as barriers against adventurers in the lower levels; 
rumor has it he has even befriended a greater mimic and tele 
ports unwary adventurers to it as gifts. The oddest legend told 
of these mimics has yet to be proved; allegedly, one of the 
smaller hovels in Skullport is actually a greater mimic that con 
sumes some of the more unsavory visitors lured there by the 
Lady Charam, its comely ally 

One in five greater mimics can develop a limited illusory abil 
ity allowing it to display creatures inside the "rooms" it simu 
lates. These talented monsters can even portray intelligent 
creatures and pretend to speak through their mouths. Observers 
need to roll under half their Intelligence to realize that the 
words are actually coming from the walls around them. 
































Mold 104 


(tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 
TREASURE TYPE: 
ALIGNMENT: 

Deep Mold 

Subterranean 

Uncommon 

Patch 

Any 

Carnivorous 

Non- (0) 

Nil 

Neutral 

Gray Mold 

Subterranean 

Rare 

Patch 

Any 

Carnivorous 

Non- (0) 

Nil 

Neutral 

Death Mold 

Subterranean 

Very Rare 

Patch 

Any 

Carnivorous 

Animal (1) 

Nil 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 patch 

1 patch 

1-3 patches 

ARMOR CLASS: 

9 

9 

9 

MOVEMENT: 

0 

0 

3 

HIT DICE: 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

THAC0: 

N/A 

N/A 

11 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

1 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACKS: 

1-10 

1-6 

2-16 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Spores 

Spores 

Spores 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

See below 

See below 

See below 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

20% 

35% 

Special 

SIZE: 

S-L 

S-L 

S-L 

MORALE: 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

XP VALUE: 

35 

65 

175 


These strains of molds, indigenous to Undermountain, are 
spore-producing fungi that grow in decaying organic materi 
als. Like all molds, these have a fuzzy, harmless appearance. 
However, these molds are very deadly and have been the 
downfall of more than one adventuring band. 

A typical patch of mold covers from 30 to 60 square feet. 

Deep Mold 

More plentiful than gray mold and death mold, deep mold 
appears in many shades of green and blue. Its pleasing 
appearance, coupled with the inviting fragrance it produces, 
often lures subterranean animals in for the kill. Humans and 
demihumans who are unfamiliar with the mold also have 
been known to come close for a look. 

If anything touches the mold, whether a curious finger or a 
weapon, it releases a cloud of spores 20' wide, 20' high, and 30' 
deep, centered on the point of contact. Anyone caught within 
the cloud must make a successful saving throw versus para- 
lyzation or suffer ldlO points of damage and lose 1 point of 
Strength for 1-10 rounds; those who are successful suffer only 
half damage and are not subject to the Strength loss. Each 
patch of deep mold can release three spore clouds a day. 

Deep mold is immune to all weapon attacks and has a nat 
ural magic resistance. However, magical spells that success 
fully pass through the mold's resistance have several effects. 
All cold-based spells stun the mold for 3d6 rounds; during this 
time, no spores can be released. Heat-based spells stun the 
mold for 4d4 rounds. Melfs acid arrow, cause light wounds, and 
cause critical wounds inflict double damage due to the nature of 
the mold: 

Gray Mold 

This mold, which grows primarily on floors, has a fuzzy light 
to dark gray appearance. Often overlooked in subterranean 
caverns, this mold releases its spores when it is stepped on or 
attacked. It can create a cloud of spores every 6 rounds. 

A cloud of gray spores is 30' deep by 15' wide and 15' high. 
All those caught within the cloud automatically suffer ld6 
points of damage. In addition, all those in the cloud must 
make a saving throw vs. poison. Those who do not save have 
inhaled ld6 spores-each of those spores causes 1 point of 
damage per round until either the victim is dead or a cure dis 


ease is cast on him. Victims consumed by gray mold spores 
become part of the mold, increasing the size of the patch by 
25%. The spores do not harm non-living matter. 

Gray mold is immune to all weapons and all non-magical 
and magical fire-based attacks. In addition, it has a natural 
magic resistance. If they can pierce the resistance, chill touch 
and cone of cold spells make the mold dormant for ld8 turns, 
while ice storm and wall of ice spells instantly kill the mold. 

Death Mold 

Death mold appears as a large mold patch colored in swirls 
and spots of green, gray, and brown, causing those who see it 
to confuse it with other types of mold. The most dangerous of 
Undermountain's molds, death mold can move, slowly inch 
ing its way along cavern floors and walls in search of food. It 
often lurks on ceilings, waiting to release its cloud of spores on 
victims below. 

When death mold touches a victim, it releases a cloud of 
spores that is 40' deep by 60' long and 60' wide, centered on 
the point of contact. Being semi-intelligent, the mold can emit 
the cloud of its own volition. It can release these clouds once a 
turn, up to six times a day. All those within the cloud suffer 
2-16 points of damage. In addition, all within the cloud must 
make a successful saving throw versus poison or fall down 
paralyzed, coughing and wheezing for the next ld4 rounds. 
Once victims are down, the death mold moves toward them or 
drops onto them from its ceiling perch. Victims who have 
fallen onto the mold (or have been engulfed by it) have 
touched the poison spores, which lie along the creature's body 
These spores cause ld8 points of poison damage for each 
round the victim remains in contact with the mold's surface. 

Death mold is immune to all wizard spells, though clerical 
healing spells (cure light wounds, cure serious wounds, cure criti 
cal wounds) stun the mold for the number of rounds equal to 
the normal number of hit points healed. Slow poison causes the 
mold to lay dormant for 1 full turn. Neutralize poison and heal 
spells instantly kill the mold. 





Pudding, Subterranean 


1104 


(tm) & (c)1994TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 
TREASURE TYPE: 
ALIGNMENT: 

Stone 

Subterranean 

Rare 

Solitary 

Any 

Any , , 

LoW (5) 

Nil 

Neutral evil 

Gray 

Subterranean 

U ncommon 

Solitary 

Any 

Any 

Low (5) 

Nil 

Neutral evil 

Dense 

Subterranean 

Rare 

Solitary 

Any 

Any 

Average (8-10) 

Nil 

Neutral evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 d-3) 

1 

1 (1-4) 

ARMOR CLASS: 

4 

9 

6 

MOVEMENT: 

3 

9 

6 

HIT DICE: 

5 

10 

10 

THAC0: 

15 

11 

11 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

1 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACKS: 

3-18 

4-32 

2-20 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

See below 

See below 

See below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

See below 

See below 

See below 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

30% 

20% 

20% 

SIZE: 

L-H 

L-H 

L-H 

MORALE: 

Steady (11) 

Steady (11) 

Champion (15-16) 

XP VALUE: 

1,400 

3,000 

4,000 


Subterranean puddings are viscous, slimy creatures that 
resemble massive lumps of oatmeal more than living things. 
Some believe they were created by mad Halaster Blackdoak, 
whose experiments gave them intelligence and resistance to 
magic. A subterranean pudding is, in fact, a colony of hun 
dreds of living organisms in a single pudding. They have no 
visible eyes, ears, or mouths; the colony creature's sensory 
organs are located on its underside. Subterranean puddings 
range from gray to deep blue in color and are usually 8' in 
diameter; larger masses indicate multiple puddings, though 
no more than four puddings are found in any one mass. They 
always search for food, moving along floors, ceilings, and 
walls to find prey. 

Sages believe all subterranean puddings are magically 
altered black puddings. Indeed, they share some standard 
pudding characteristics. The puddings take no damage from 
edged weapons, and blunt weapons cause one-quarter normal 
damage, regardless of any magical bonuses. They are immune 
to acid, cold, and poison attacks. However, these puddings do 
not divide when attacked. Rather, they divide into two half 
sized sections, each with full hit points, when any of the fol 
lowing spells are cast at them: fireball, lightning bolt, flamestrike, 
flaming sphere, wall of fire, chain lightning, and incendiary cloud. 

Stone Pudding 

Though malleable, this pudding appears rather solid and very 
sluggish. It is a thick lump that oozes slowly along any sur 
face, preferring to hide on ceilings (from whence it can drop 
onto its food). It ranges in color from light gray to dark gray- 
the darker the color, the more recently it has fed. A stone pud 
ding's secretions are poisonous, and each attack causes 3-18 
(3d6) points of damage. When a pudding kills a victim, it rests 
upon the dead creature until its body absorbs the flesh. This 
takes 1-10 rounds. Stone puddings cannot eat metal, wood, 
leather, and other such objects, which are left behind after they 
consume their victims. 

These puddings, their remains, and their surface secretions 
are used by wizards as poisons and as ingredients in oil of acid 
resistance. 


Gray Pudding 

Often mistaken for stone pudding at a distance, this is perhaps 
the deadliest of the subterranean puddings. Gray pudding 
uses its deep gray coloration to blend in with shadows and the 
natural gray hue of stone. This gives its opponents a -4 sur 
prise roll penalty. More corrosive than black pudding, the gray 
variety emits a powerful acid, delivering 4-32 (4d8) points of 
damage. This acid eats through wood, leather, and chain mail 
in 1 round, and plate mail in 2. Each magical plus of the item 
adds 1 round to its survival time. In addition, the creature 
automatically delivers 4-32 points of damage each round it is 
encasing a victim. When the victim reaches -10 hit points, it is 
considered dissolved, with not even a scrap of bone left 
behind. 

Gray puddings are unusually susceptible to certain spells, 
provided those enchantments get past its magic resistance. 
These spells include flesh to stone, which acts as a slow spell on 
the pudding, and airy water, which alters the pudding's form 
enough to drown it in its own fluid mass in 2-8 rounds. 

Dense Pudding 

This variety of subterranean pudding has 10 Hit Dice and is 
always found at its maximum hit point total (80 hp). Slower 
than gray pudding, the dense variety has learned from its "rel 
atives" to cling to the shadows and use surprise to its advan 
tage by dropping on potential meals. Targets suffer a -2 to 
their surprise rolls. Dense pudding is easy to spot in the open 
because of its dark blue coloration and large size. 

The secretions of a dense pudding are corrosive only to liv 
ing flesh and cause 2-20 (2d 10) hit points of damage. In addi 
tion, the secretions are tainted. All those who are damaged by 
a dense pudding must make a successful saving throw vs. poi 
son or succumb to a debiIitating disease. C uredisease wilI 
negate these effects if cast within 48 hours of the infection. 





Scaladar, Enhanced 


1104 


& (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 


Undermountain 

Unique 

Special 

Any 

Nil" 


Highly (16) 
See below 
Neutral Evil 


NO. APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 
SIZE: 

MORALE: 

X.P. VALUE: 


1 

1 

9 

7 + 7 

13 

3 

1-12/1-12/2-8 + special 
Electrical "sting" 

See below 
50%; see below 
H (12'+ long) 

Special 

7,000 


Scaladar are scorpion-like automatons created by the arch 
mage Trobriand, and are the most successful and useful of his 
artificial creations. The scaladar are generally used to guard 
strongholds or treasure in the many levels of Undermountain. 
The enhanced scaladar, which calls itself Squch, is an automa 
ton especially created by Trobriand as one of his "most intel 
lectually stimulating experiments in this century." With its 
magical metal construction, Squch is physically identical to a 
normal scaladar, aside from its intelligence, magic resistance, 
independent will, and a magical voicebox that allows it to 
speak Common and Drow. Created as a curiosity to interact 
with some of Trobriand's older "failures" (see Trobriand's 
Automatons), the enhanced scaladar is proving to be a singu 
lar menace that could lead to much trouble soon. 


Combat: The enhanced scaladar can attack with both of its 
huge, pincerlike claws as well as with its sting-tipped tail, and 
can thus fight up to three opponents at a time. Each claw does 
ldl2 points of damage when it closes on a victim and contin 
ues that damage each round thereafter until the victim can 
break free. A victim can try to escape once with a successful 
bend bars/lift gates roll; failure means that the victim is trapped 
in the creature's grip until dropped. Moreover, Squch holds 
the victim in its vise-like grip and bludgeons the enemy with 
the unfortunate, dealing ld4 points of damage to the blud 
geoned foe, and an additional ld6 points of damage to the 
tightly-held victim/weapon. 

The enhanced scaladar's sting does 2d4 points of damage, 
and each successful "sting" adds an additional ldl2 points of 
electrical damage to the victim. Note that anyone trapped in 
one of the enhanced scaladar's claws can be automatically 
struck by the sting, with no attack roll required. Squch can 
generate this electrical attack only once per turn, unless it can 
be enhanced by any electrical or magical attacks cast against it. 

Like its less-intelligent cousins, Squch can absorb all magic 
missiles and all electrical attacks. Each point of damage from an 
electrical attack is stored as 1 point of energy that can be dis 
charged when the construct makes a "sting" attack. This 
energy cannot be discharged by the sting until a minimum of 
12 points have been absorbed or generated. The magical 
energy released by magic missiles can be absorbed on the same 
round they hit to heal the scaladar rather than harm it. If Squch 
is unharmed, the magic missiles are absorbed with no effect. 


Like all of Trobriand's constructs, the enhanced scaladar is 
immune to disintegrate, maze, crystalbrittle, and any acid- or 
cold-based spells. It takes only half damage from fire- and 
heat-based attacks, and half damage from any attacks with 
edged or piercing weapons. All attempts to mentally control 
Squch will fail unless they specifically use Trobriancf's Master 
Ring (See Trobriand's Automatons). 

Habitat/Society: The scaladar were created over a number of 
decades, and Trobriand created many other metal creatures 
that were deemed failures and teleported to empty caverns 
deep within the dungeon. Early on, Trobriand stopped instill 
ing artificial intelligence within his constructs, as his experi 
ments always seemed to go awry. Years later, after the 
successful creation of the nonintelligent and easily controlled 
scaladar, Trobriand ventured into the area where he dumped 
his "failures," looking for spare parts, and found a group of 
artificially sentient constructs that not only functioned, but 
were creating more of their own constructs. 

Inspired by the unintentional success of his intelligent metal 
monsters, Trobriand wanted to create a construct that was 
intelligent and able to control the others, all "in the interest of 
magical curiosity." He created a unique, more heavily armored 
scaladar with some magic resistance and a new artificial intelli 
gence based on the silversanns' internal components, allowing 
it to directly control its fellow constructs. Its primary magical 
"programming" instill in it a directive for control. Trobriand 
then placed it in his graveyard to watch its interaction with the 
other inhabitants. Squch named itself soon after its activation 
(after a squeak from its right claw) and its experimental intel 
lect and ego soon went to work. It quickly proclaimed itself the 
commander of the constructs in Trobriand's Graveyard and 
formed its plans to conquer the Underhalls and all the Realms 
above and below. It does realize, however, that it and the other 
metal monsters are unquestioningly under the control of the 
"Metal Mage" himself (though Squch thinks it might have 
ways around that, provided enough magic . . .). 

Squch is intelligent and ambitious and is following its direc 
tive of control quite well. It has control of the Graveyard and it 
has now directed the other automatons to find a way out of the 
Graveyard. Squch has delusions of grandeur along with its 
control directive, and is intent upon finding a way to control 
Undermountain in preparation for taking over the Realms. 
Squch is ruthless and totally lacking in qualities such as com 
passion or curiosity. It wants only one thing: to further its 
ambitions and obey its "need" for control. It is driven by a 
mechanical logic and is too intelligent to fall for spurious argu 
ments or unsupported threats. Unlike others of its kind, Squch 
does not kill blindly and automatically; each opponent is eval 
uated in terms of what Squch might gain from him or her. 

Squch moves smoothly on level ground, but can climb rock- 
piles in a clumsy fashion. It knows that it cannot swim or float, 
and that its metallic body would eventually rust if exposed to 
water for extended periods of time, and so it remains on dry 
ground at all times. 

Ecology: Squch eats nothing, and requires no fuel. Trobriand 
knows of its ambitions, but only finds them "amusing from 
an anthropological point of view." He also knows that the 
monster will obey him without question, due to his Master 
Ring. With matters at an apparent impasse, Trobriand contin 
ues to observe Squch and the society it has built in the Grave 
yard with much amusement and interest. Squch, on the other 
hand, works incessantly to gain control of the dungeon and 
itself (it wants to find magic that allows it to defy Trobriand's 
control). 





Serpent Vines 


1104 


& (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 
TREASURE TYPE: 
ALIGNMENT: 


Forests 

Common 

Solitary 


Any 

Carnivorous 
Average (8-10) 
Nil 

Neutral (evil) 


NO. APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 
SIZE: 

MORALE: 

XP VALUE: 


1 

4 

15 

10 

11 

1 

1-12 

Constriction, spells 

Camouflage 

Nil 

H (40' long) 

Elite (13-14) 

2,000 


Believed to be a creation of one of Halaster's apprentices, ser 
pent vines are a cross between a giant constrictor snake and a 
plant. The creature looks like a vine, and only can be distin 
guished as a living animal 25% of the time by those who have 
seen them before and are specifically looking for the snakes. 
Those unfamiliar with the snakes have only a 5% chance to 
detect anything other than an actual vine. To date, serpent 
vines have only been found in the subterranean forest within 
Undermountain. However, sages believe some of the creatures 
may exist within the jungles of Chult, where reports of living 
vines surface from time to time. 

The long, thin body of a serpent vine is covered with heart- 
shaped green leaves and smaller vines that curve around the 
entire length of the snake. The leaves actually aid in the crea 
ture's movement, acting like small feet that help propel the 
snake quickly through the underbrush. All serpent vines are 
green and are able to adjust the shading of their bodies to 
match that of the trees they hang from or foliage they lie 
among. Serpent vines are very rarely encountered on bare 
ground, and only then when the snakes are passing over it. 
The serpents cling to the green foliage of the underground 
forests for protection. The snakes are most often discovered 
hanging amid normal vines on tall trees, where they have the 
best vantage point to use their spells on unsuspecting prey 

Combat: Serpent vines will go out of their way to attack 
humans and demihumans because the snakes consider these 
creatures delicacies. A serpent vine's favorite combat tactic is 
to hang from a branch that overlooks a forest trail and to use 
its spells to lure in its prey. Three times a day, a serpent vine 
can cast spectral force. A vine often uses this spell to add lus 
cious-looking, ripe fruit to its body-especially around its 
mouth. 

Once a day, a serpent vine can use the following innate spell 
abilities: charm person, hold person, suggestion, and mass sugges 
tion (up to 5 creatures). It uses suggestions and charms to hint 
that the affected individuals should relax, come closer, and 
touch the vine. If a serpent vine has dominated its victim or 
victims by its spells, it eases its body from the tree, wraps itself 
about a target, then bites and constricts in the same round. A 
constriction attack causes 4-16 (4d4) points of damage. These 
attacks are automatically successful the first round if the vic 
tim fell for the snake's magic. However, the effects of the spells 



are negated after the initial attack. 

The snakes are cunning and will first attack creatures which 
are under suggestion spells. When finished with those targets, 
it moves on to the held and charmed victims. 

If a party of individuals encounter a snake, and the snake's 
spells do not effect any of its intended targets, the snake uses 
its camouflage ability and quick movement to disappear into 
the undergrowth. Serpent vines are not foolish enough to 
attack when the odds are against them. Further, the snakes 
will not attack groups comprised solely of dark elves, which 
have proven resistant to its charms. However, the snakes have 
been known to attack up to 3 individuals unaffected by their 
magic, constricting first and then biting immobilized foes. 

Habital/Society: Serpent vines are solitary creatures which do 
not even associate with others of their kind. They live high in 
underground trees, laying their eggs in hollowed sections of 
thick branches or trunks. Each snake will lay ld6 eggs every 
four months, and will warm the eggs with its body until they 
hatch (usually three to four weeks). The snakes are less active 
during this time, attacking prey only to eat and not for enjoy 
ment. The baby serpent vines are roughly one foot long upon 
hatching, and are quickly sent down the tree to survive on 
their own or to fall prey to other subterranean carnivores. 

Ecology: Serpent vines are important to the ecosystem of the 
Wyllowwood, Undermountain's subterranean forest, as they 
often kill more than they can eat. The kills left behind serve as 
food for lesser carnivores and help nourish the natural and 
sentient plant life. As a natural part of this insular food chain, 
adult vines prey upon all warm-blooded creatures within the 
forest, but favor humans and demihumans, particularly 
gnomes and halflings, which they consider sweet flesh. In 
exchange, the serpent vines are hunted by rangers and druids 
who do not consider the creatures a natural part of the envi 
ronment and view them as a serious threat. 








Shadow Lurkers 


1104 


& (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 


Subterranean 

Rare 

Solitary 

Night or Darkness 

Special 

Low (5-7) 

Nil 

Chaotic evil 


NO. APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 
SIZE: 

MORALE: 

XP VALUE: 


1 

4 

3, F19 (B) 

5+3 

15 

1 

2-8 

Strength Drain 

+1 or better weapons to hit 

Nil 

L (20' square) 

Champion (15) 

1,400 


Shadow lurkers appear similar in shape to normal lurkers, a 
large manta-ray that skulks along ceilings and walls, though it 
is less distinct or material-it is, as its name suggests, a dark 
shadow in the shape of a lurker. Though its silhouette would 
normally be quite effectively hidden in a shadowy dungeon, 
they can be detected easily since any shadows cast by light 
sources (including those of the PCs) are pulled toward the 
shadow lurker, pointing out its presence by directional move 
ment. If you enter a crypt and shadows move in the light of 
your torch without you moving too, follow them to the only 
nonmoving shadow in the room and you'll find the monster. 

Combat: The shadow lurker is a slow creature that waits for 
its prey to come to it. When creatures are underneath or beside 
it, it then attacks 1-3 man-sized opponents within 20'. During 
its initial attack, the area appears to be filled with a thick dark 
mist for 1 round. When it envelops its victims, their skin and 
clothing turn jet black; sages describe it like a thin coating of 
black ink. The shadow lurker is only paper-thin, and wraps 
tightly around its victims. 

Those within its body take 2-8 points of damage from the 
numbing cold and also lose 1-2 points of Strength per round; 
victims are killed when either their Strength scores or hit point 
totals reach 0. Enwrapped victims can attack the shadow lurker 
from within if they had a weapon in hand and they can make a 
successful bend bars/lift gates roll to move against the mon 
ster's constricting attack. Any attacks against the shadow lurker 
from without have a chance of also damaging its engulfed vic 
tims. Weapons attacks do full damage to one victim on a 75% 
chance (roll at random if more than one character is enveloped) 
as the shadow lurker can pull its own prey into the area of 
attack. Area effect attacks do half damage (or quarter damage 
with successful saving throws) to all enveloped victims. 

A shadow lurker moves very slowly, but it can manipulate 
its body to fit through any crevice. It flees by flying to the 
nearest crack (like a doorway or crack in the stone), retreating 
in this manner if reduced to 30% or fewer hit points. Shadow 
lurkers store the Strength points absorbed from victims; when 
they absorb and store 50 or more Strength points, they split to 
become two creatures. As a solitary creature, the new shadow 
lurker immediately leaves the vicinity to find its own hunting 
grounds apart from its parent. 

Shadow lurkers are immune to all sleep, charm, or hold 



spells. They are also immune to damage from cold-based 
attacks. While faerie fire and light do not bother the shadow 
lurker beyond their normal effects, continual light spells para 
lyze shadow lurkers for a number of rounds equal to the spell- 
caster's level. Color spray does not affect this creature normally; 
it unexpectedly does 2-12 points of damage to the shadow 
lurker with no effect on its trapped victims. Despite its name 
and abilities, the shadow lurker cannot be turned by clerics. 

Habitat/Society: Aside from brief contact after creating 
another shadow lurker, these monsters shun all contact with 
others of their kind. They can detect the presence of other 
shadow lurkers from hundreds of yards away and will imme 
diately leave if they wander into the area controlled by another 
of their kind. They also can sense the presence of shadows as 
well, and the two hate each other fiercely, always attacking if 
they are within 50'. They have no apparent goals or purpose 
other than to feed and multiply It is unsure how or even if they 
communicate. Given their solitary nature, it seems unlikely 

Ecology: Shadow lurkers gladly attack and slay any living 
creatures and even some undead (like shadows). However, 
their slow movement rate and the ease with which they are 
detected makes them a risk only to the unwary. 

Shadow lurkers completely destroy the physical remains of 
their prey, their victims dissolved into insubstantial shadows 
and absorbed into the lurker's body. Only the victims them 
selves are absorbed into the shadow lurker; all possessions of 
the victims are left behind. Using a wish to restore a person's 
body after its absorption into a shadow lurker merely creates a 
shadow in the form of the departed person, and it immedi 
ately attacks. 

Save for the fallen equipment of their latest victims, shadow 
lurkers gather no treasure. When an area becomes too filled 
with equipment from past victims, the monster leaves to find a 
new location lest the remains make new prey wary. 






































































Wraith-Spiders 


1104 


& (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 


Any 

Rare 

Pack 

Night 

Special 

Average (8-10) 
Incidental 
Lawful evil 


NO. APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 
SIZE: 

MORALE: 

XP VALUE: 


3-18 

5 

15, Web 18 
3 + 2 
17 
1 

1-4 

Energy Drain + Poison 

Silver and +1 or better weapons 

15% 

M (4' diameter) 

Champion (15) 

1,400 


Wraith-spiders appear as vaguely formed dark spider shapes 
whose eight legs trail off into dark mist. They have no physical 
substance anymore, more shadow and mist than spider. They 
attack with mandibles that, though appearing insubstantial, 
leave visible wounds. Their bodies are circled with glowing 
red pinprick-eyes that look in all directions simultaneously. 

By his own admission, Muiral-an ex-apprentice of Halaster 
-created the wraith-spiders. However, it is unlikely Muiral 
created them on his own, given his web-strand of sanity. It is 
possible that he created them with his former master, with the 
aid of texts found in an ancient Drow stronghold, though it is 
more likely that the wraith-spiders were created years before 
by the Drow for their war against the duergar and the Clan 
Melairkyn of Undermountain. Nevertheless, Muiral now is 
known to command several of the creatures in the areas fre 
quented by him in Undermountain, thanks to his permanent 
magical power to control undead. 

Combat: Wraith-spiders cause damage by several methods. 
Their bite causes 14 points of damage from chilling cold; each 
bite also drains 1 level of experience from an opponent. This 
affects hit points and all abilities connected with that level, 
such as combat ability or spell-casting. Lost experience levels 
can only be regained by the victim's earning new experience 
or being the recipient of a restoration spell. 

A wraith-spider also injects a poison into its victims with its 
bite. This poison remains active for 2-5 rounds and drains 1 
point of Constitution each round it is active. The victim must 
roll a successful saving throw versus poison each round to 
escape the poison's effects for that round. A neutralize poison 
spell alleviates the effects of the poison entirely, removing it 
from the victim's system and restoring any lost Constitution 
points. A slow poison delays the effects of the poison for the 
duration of the spell but will not restore any Constitution 
points already lost. Constitution points can be regained at the 
rate of 1 per week; a heal spell restores 1-4 points per spell. 
Victims drained of all Constitution points die and have a 25% 
chance of becoming wraiths themselves. Characters slain by 
wraith-spiders can be returned to life with a heal and a resur 
rection spell cast in that sequence. 

Wraith-spiders are turned by priests as shadows. They are 
immune to cold-based attacks and sleep, charm, and hold spells. 
Normal weapons do no damage; wraith-spiders are affected 



only by silver weapons or magical weapons. Holy water vials 
thrown at these creatures does 2-8 points of damage (as acid) 
against their undead form. For unknown reasons, raise dead 
spells do not affect these creatures as they do other wraiths. 

Wraith-spiders create webs which glow with an eerie dim 
green light. Anyone touching a web will sustain 14 points of 
damage from the numbing cold of the strands. Characters in 
contact with the webs must also make a saving throw vs. para- 
lyzation to prevent being immobilized by the web for 1-6 
rounds, sustaining cold damage for each round in the web. 
Like the wraith-spiders themselves, the webs cannot be cut by 
normal weapons; they can only be cut by silver or magical 
edged weapons (or a successful bend bars/lift gates roll). 

Habitat/Society: Wraith-spiders were originally created as 
guardians of treasure or as guards for a particular area of a 
Drow stronghold. Even under someone else's control, they 
tend to guard treasure well, any treasure left by their victims 
being added to their original cache. Wraith-spiders are usually 
encountered in packs since they are created in groups. How 
ever, since they do not turn victims into more wraith-spiders 
(though there is speculation on what happens if a normal or 
giant spider is killed by them), they are sometimes encoun 
tered alone as attrition takes its toll. 

Wraith-spiders have no goals or purposes other than to per 
form their guard tasks and slay the living. They seem to com 
municate with each other on some instinctive level to 
coordinate attacks in pack formations, though this is non-ver 
bal in nature. They understand orders given in Common or 
Drow if someone with undead control has the power to com 
mand them. They speak no language of their own and do not 
respond in any way to a speak with dead spell. They are always 
encountered as the servants of some more powerful creature. 

Ecology: Since they are not free to roam at will, wraith-spiders 
have little effect on the natural order. 







Trobriand's Automatons 


1104 


(tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 

Ferragan 

Subterranean 

Very Rare 

Special 

Any 

Nib 

Semi-(2-3) 

Incidental 

Neutral 

Silversann 

Subterranean 

Very Rare 

Special 

Any 

Nib 

Very (11-12) 

Special 

Neutral 

Thanatar 

Subterranean 

Very Rare 

Special 

Any 

Nib 

Non-(0) 

Incidental 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1-6 

1 (10 in Umt.) 

2-5 

ARMOR CLASS: 

4 

4 

0 

MOVEMENT: 

6 

18 

12 

HIT DICE: 

5 

3 

10 

THACO: 

15 

17 

11 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

2 + special 

1 

3 + Special 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

1-3/2-5 

1-4 

1-20/1-20/1-12 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Fire 

Nil 

Gas 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Immune to Heat 

Nil 

Special 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

10% 

40% 

25% 

SIZE: 

M (57' long) 

S (2' long) 

H (15' long) 

MORALE: 

18 

19 

15 

XP VALUE: 

1,400 

650 

9,000 


In aspiring to make reliable and powerful artificial guardians, 
the mage Trobriand created a number of different prototypes 
and models over a number of years, all of which he aban 
doned with the creation of his scaladar (see The Ruins of 
Undemountain boxed set). "Trobriand's automatons" generi- 
cally refers to the multitude of mechanical creatures origi 
nally designed and created by the mage, but discarded and 
sentenced to an isolated sub-level of Undermountain. Three 
major types of Trobriand's automatons are currently func 
tional within this realm: the ferragan, a workhorse and 
mechanic for other automatons; the silversann, the "brains" 
of the automatons and ersatz wizard; and the thanatar, quite 


literally the war machine. These three are the primary crea 
tures that saved themselves from the obsolesence imposed on 
them by their creator. There are other automatons created by 
Trobriand, but these tend to be little more than randomly con 
structed mobile scrap heaps used by others for spare parts. 

Ferragan 

Ferragans appear to be large, crablike creatures with six legs 
and two manipulative appendages. One of the appendages is 
a grasping arm with three large, strong fingers that look like a 
crab's claws. The other is a shaping arm similar to a large 
hammer or mallet with a large, rounded head for pounding. 










Trobriand's Automatons 


1104 


The small, flat head of this creature contains three eyes set 
forward in a triangular pattern, and a thin nozzle where the 
mouth would be on a living creature. 

Ferragans are the workhorses of Trobriand's Graveyard, 
their jobs being to repair other metal creatures and to make 
simple spare parts for them. They also seek out and store any 
and all raw materials that can be used for automaton assem 
bly. When they find a source of metal (raw ore, a sword, or a 
suit of plate armor, for example), they always attempt to col 
lect it and bring it home for sorting and storage. They are 
intelligent enough to follow simple directions and to learn 
that certain creatures or objects are not raw materials. 

Combat: These constructs attack by grabbing victims with the 
pincer arm (for 1-3 points of damage) and battering them 
with the shaping arm (for 2-5 points of damage). An oppo 
nent can attempt a bend bars/lift gates roll every round to 
escape the pincer arm. If a target is grasped and successfully 
held by the pincer, the ferragan attacks with a +2 bonus with 
the shaping arm in subsequent rounds. Every other round, it 
can attack with a fire jet from the nozzle on its head. This is a 
narrow flame similar to a cutting torch, and can be used only 
against held targets for 2-12 points of damage. This can be 
used no more than six times a day. 

Due to their function, all ferragans are immune to heat 
damage. Their metal construction results in half damage from 
edged or piercing weapons. They are immune to all mind 
controlling attacks as they don't have living minds. 

Habitai/S ociety: When he originally created the ferragans, 
Trobriand felt that they could take over the manufacture of 
simple parts for him, freeing him to devote himself to more 
creative work. However, they were more trouble than they 
were worth, as they constantly took valuable metal objects 
(like iron bands of Bilarro) to use for spare material. Rather 
than improve their intelligence and repeat an earlier failure 
with the silversann (see below), Trobriand banished all of his 
ferragans, both working and broken-down models, to the 
dumping ground that is now known as Trobriand's Grave 
yard. 

Ferragans are the workhorses and the mechanics of the 
Graveyard. They create spare parts for any automatons that 
have been damaged in accidents or battles, and gather raw 
materials from new arrivals on the level. They do not attack 
new arrivals to take metal from them, but they defend them 
selves to the best of their abilities from persons who physi 
cally object to having their armor or weapons stolen by these 
giant metal crabs. They stop fighting when they get the metal 
they seek, and scurry away to sort and store it for later use. 
Ferragans do obey the silversanns and carry out any com 
mands to the best of their understanding (admittedly not 
very great, but they do their best). They can also send out 
alarm signals to the thanatars for aid in obtaining metal, 
though the thanatars respond to the ferragans' signals only 
50% of the time. 

Ecology: Ferragans do not eat or drink, though their internal 
manufacturing processes leave many by-products in their 
habitats. Smoke and welding fumes are thick in the air 
around them, and living creatures engaging in strenuous 
activity (i.e. combat) around them must roll Constitution 
checks each round or suffer a penalty of -2 on all combat rolls 
and proficiency checks until they rest for 1-8 rounds. This 
effect ceases after leaving the ferragans' area. Like all of his 
automatons, ferragans must obey commands from Tro 
briand's Master Ring. 


Silversann 

Silversanns look like mechanical silverfish with several fine 
manipulators attached to their bodies at the base of their 
heads, looking like elongated antennae. They are a flat black 
color rather than silver, and their black armor does not reflect 
light. While appearing delicate, the silversann are stronger 
than they look and can carry 100 to 150 pounds, or drag per 
haps two to three times as much. 

Silversanns were invented by Trobriand to seek out magic 
and machinery in the vast depths of Undermountain, ascer 
tain items' functions, and return useful items to him. Despite 
their simple tasks and bodies suited for said tasks, the silver 
sanns were one of Trobriand's most disappointing failures. 

While they possessed the intelligence he had hoped for and 
the curiosity needed to seek out new items, they also retained 
quite a bit of free-will and stubbornness within their artificial 
intellects. This created disturbing tendencies in them to keep 
objects they found for study and use rather than giving them 
to Trobriand after discerning their function. They also could 
lose track of their missions when something piqued their 
wide-ranging curiosities. While several are still in his service 
in various portions of Undermountain, most of the silver 
sanns were relegated to the discard heap (the Graveyard) 
after failing to respond to Trobriand in an appropriate man 
ner. 

Combat: Silversanns are not suited for combat and often flee 
such situations if given the opportunity to do so. They seldom 
confront anyone not known to them except when surrounded 
by thanatar units in the graveyard complex. If forced into 
combat, they strike with their manipulator-tentacles, using 
them like whips (1-2 points of damage). They are intelligent 
enough to strike at vulnerable areas, such as eyes, and have a 
20% chance with each successful hit to blind an opponent's 
eyes. This is only possible if their opponent's eyes are within 
their limited reach. 

If physically threatened or pressured by characters, the sil 
versanns can "mentally" command any of Trobriand's 
automatons within 100'. This is their primary form of defense, 
using the ferragans and the thanatars as their enforcers. 
Under their control, any of Trobriand's automatons will sacri 
fice itself to protect the silversanns. If any are somehow made 
to attack the silversanns themselves, they immediately deacti 
vate for 1-12 rounds upon contact with their commanding sil 
versanns. The only mechanical automaton that is immune to 
their control is Squch, the enhanced scaladar (see Scaladar, 
Enhanced). 

Habitat/Society: Outside of Trobriand's Graveyard, silver 
sanns are solitary creatures at the mage's beck and call. Silver 
sanns have the ability to detect magic, as befits their task of 
finding and discerning magical items. They can also duplicate 
the abilities of a wand of metal and mineral detection, allowing 
them to detect concentrations of metals and use their intelli 
gence to determine whether it is useful for their master or not. 
Both of these abilities operate at all times. 

Silversanns exist only for the acquisition of knowledge and 
will go to great lengths to investigate a new fact. Whenever 
two or more silversanns meet, they spend 1 turn exchanging 
any new discoveries they have made. After this exchange of 
information, they go their separate ways. Under normal cir 
cumstances, this is the only "social" contact they have. 

The silversanns were the only creatures sent to Trobriand's 
Graveyard with full working capabilities, and they rebuilt the 
ferragans and the thanatars to fulfill their impulse for investi 
gating and fixing mechanisms. In the Graveyard, the silver 
sanns are "frustrated" at their inability to explore and have 




Trobriand's Automatons 


1104 


turned to independent research as a way to maintain their 
function of "seeking magic." Presently, they are trying to 
recreate themselves with more intelligence in the hopes of 
creating a magic-using silversann. They hope that a "wizard" 
machine can manipulate the gates, allowing them to escape 
their prison and once again be free to explore. 

To this end, they question all adventurers who enter the 
complex and try to find out what quality controls the ability 
to manipulate magic. They have been unsuccessful so far and 
have resorted to dissection of magical items (and mages!) on 
several occasions to see if there is some internal mechanism 
or organ that governs this ability. They hope that, if such a 
thing is discovered, they can duplicate it within their own 
structures. 

Silversanns have the ability to control other types of Tro- 
briand's automatons similar to that granted by a ring of Tro- 
briand. Mechanisms similar to said rings are embedded within 
their heads, though it would take a character with an Intelli 
gence of 18 and a full knowledge of clockworks to find one. 
They are unique among Trobriand's creations in that they can 
sometimes resist such rings themselves. This chance is 50% for 
the normal rings and 15% for Trobriand's Master Ring. So far, 
the only silversanns that have resisted the Master Ring have 
been discarded to the Graveyard. 

Ecology: Silversanns have little or no effect on their immedi 
ate environment. They are not inherently destructive like 
thanatars or ferragans, and are interested only in seeking new 
knowledge of a mechanical or magical nature. Any encoun 
tered silversann is 35% likely to be carrying a random magical 
item that it is experimenting with or studying (or returning to 
Trobriand). Silversanns can function in any normal environ 
ment and are small and agile enough to climb stairs and rock 
piles, as well as being able to function underwater for limited 
periods of time. 

Thanatar 

The thanatar was one of Trobriand's attempts at improving its 
mechanical guardian, the scaladar. Resembling scaladars in 
shape (large metallic scorpions), thanatars are not meant to be 
used as security forces, but as powerful weapons of war. 
Thanatars resemble heavily armored scorpions with two 
huge front pincers and a heavy bludgeon on the tail in place 
of the stinger. They also have a large, wide nozzle for emitting 
gas at the front of their heads between decorative metal 
mandibles. Trobriand is testing them in the graveyard to see 
how they stand up against adventurers who stumble there. 
However, no one knows what his ultimate plans are for them. 

Combat: Thanatars, like the scaladars, have no intelligence 
but are aware enough to carry out fairly complex orders in 
combat. They can also improvise if necessary. They attack 
with the large tail bludgeon (1-12 points of damage) and two 
large pincers (1-20 points of crushing damage). If opponents 
are hit with a pincer, they can try to escape with a bend 
bars/lift gates roll. If they fail, they are subject to automatic 
damage each round and cannot escape until they are other 
wise freed. If both pincers hit, the ferragans can hold an oppo 
nent and project a sleep gas from the nozzle on their heads 
(save versus poison or fall unconscious for 2-8 hours). 

Thanatars are immune to nonmagical edged weapons, and 
they suffer only half damage from nonmagical blunt and 
magical edged weapons. They are immune to acid damage 
and take half damage from fire or heat based attacks. They are 
immune to mind controlling attacks, being of artificial con 
struction, and are likewise immune to illusions. 

Though they have no innate intelligence, thanatars were 


built and programmed by Trobriand with a basic knowledge 
of tactics and strategy. They will coordinate their attacks to 
the best effect and will often cooperate to eliminate the most 
dangerous opponents before pursuing or attacking less pow 
erful ones. They are also cognizant enough to recognize when 
they are outmatched and to retreat for new instructions from 
their commander, or to regroup and attack under more 
advantageous circumstances. They are not afraid to sacrifice 
themselves to carry out their orders, but they will not destroy 
themselves foolishly unless actively under orders from Tro 
briand's Master Ring. 

Habitat/Society: Thanatars form no "natural" social group 
ings, being little more than automated war machines, but 
they will naturally cooperate when several of them are work 
ing together. They do not operate with any one thanatar in 
"command" unless commanded to do so, but tend to respond 
to their orders with a group mentality, all thanatars within a 
group acting on one impulse and one objective. Thanatars do 
not fight each other unless actively given conflicting orders, 
like "Protect the mage at all costs!" and "Kill that mage!" If 
two or more thanatars within a group are given conflicting 
orders, they will always see the other thanatars as the greatest 
threat and they will attack each other until one is left func 
tioning. 

In the Graveyard, the thanatars act as the guards and re 
spond to commands from the silversanns and the ferragans, 
though their responses to the ferragans are limited. They are 
called upon when any other units encounter intruders that 
they cannot handle alone. Most often, this entails confronting 
parties of adventurers who are reluctant to give up their 
metal and magical items. More rarely, they are also called 
upon to control or subdue new rejected experimental automa 
tons from Trobriand's labs until they can be assimilated into 
the community. These discards show up anywhere, as Tro 
briand's personal gate has no precise exit point within the 
Graveyard (unlike the gate that sent the player characters 
there). 

Thanatars are subject to orders from the enhanced scaladar 
and the silversanns, actively pursuing their tasks as assigned, 
except when imperative distress calls from other units inter 
rupt them. If they are currently performing a noncombat task, 
they are 20% more likely to respond to an alarm for combat 
(boosting the response to ferragan alarms to 70%). The 
thanatars are, of course, subject to control by Trobriand's 
Master Ring. 

Ecology: Since thanatars have as yet not been let loose on the 
outside world, there is no data available on their effect on a 
natural ecology. However, it is certain that a large force of 
thanatars on the move could have a devastating effect on 
their surroundings if not ordered to restrict the damage to a 
particular area. 

Trobriand's Other Automatons 

These are the multitude of unique rejects and failures that 
Trobriand discarded to his Graveyard over the decades since 
its formation. Unlike the other specialized types of creations 
here, few of these automatons were functional when dumped 
here. Most abandoned automatons are scavenged by the fer 
ragans as scrap metal, though some maintained minimal 
mobility and function. These creatures were then "fixed" by 
the ferragans (or by the silversanns' experiments) and now 
are significantly altered from any one particular form. 

These automatons are a multitude of differing shapes, 
sizes, and capabilities. Given Trobriand's affectations for scor 
pions and other creatures of that type, that is the primary 



Trobriand's Automatons 


1104 


shape found here, though it is often altered and mixed (a 
metal scorpion with a claw on its tail, a lobster-like automa 
ton with tentacles instead of claws, etc.). Despite the prepon 
derance of this phenotype, Trobriand's automatons span the 
range of animalia and beyond, producing remarkable metallic 
representations of nearly any monster or animal of the 
Realms. 

Automatons can have a wide number of variations across 
a wide number of characteristics. When a DUNGEON 
MASTER(tm) wishes to create a new automaton, always keep in 
mind that these automatons were rejected, abandoned, or 
damaged and their quirky construction should reflect that. 
The checklist below can help DMs determine the general 
physical characteristics of a lost automaton: 

• SIZE: 1-20' in overall length or diameter 

• INTELLIGENCE: Non- (0) to Semi- (2-4) 

• HIT DICE: 1-8 

• BODY TYPE: Scorpion, crab, silverfish, spider, lobster; 
any other legged monster or animal 

• APPENDAGES/LIMBS: 2-8; FORMS: pincers, claws, 
hooks, tentacles, clubs, whips, blades, etc. 

• RESISTANCES: All are immune to mental control spells 
and illusions due to their artificial construction (unless 

• DMs wish to create a new artificial sentient!). Standards 
are x h damage from fire, acid, edged weapons, and cold. 
Specials include magic missile or electrical absorption 
and healing or magic resistance of 5-75% effectiveness. 

• DISADVANTAGES: Double damage from specific 
attacks (like acid), limited sensors (infravision only, 
sonar only, malfunctioning eyes), cracked or missing 
armor, or mobility problems (broken limbs, rusting, 
etc.). 

Automatons are assigned duties usually having nothing to 
do with player character interaction and, as such, will only 
attack if prevented from performing their function or in self- 
defense. The primary automatons encountered, other than the 
ferragans, scaladar, silversanns, and thanatars, are the miner 
automatons within Trobriand's Graveyard, which are all 
assigned the task of drilling escape routes for the silversanns. 

Habitat/Society: These creatures are not found outside of 
Undermountain; more specifically, they are only found within 
one of Trobriand's workshops or in his dumping ground for 
failed machines (the Graveyard). 

Though automatons comprise the bulk of the population of 
Trobriand's Graveyard, they are at the bottom of the social 
ladder. They are given tasks such as hauling waste from the 
ferragan areas or mining to expand the dwelling areas and to 
search for raw materials. Digging through this magically 
hardened stone around the Graveyard causes a great deal of 
wear and tear on the machines and this causes the ferragans 
to frequently have to replace limbs on the automatons. The 
strain of trying to operate with a body that no longer meets its 
original specifications causes many an automaton to go 
berserk. When this happens, the thanatars destroy the offend 
ing machine and its components are melted down by the fer 
ragans and completely reworked into new parts. 

Silversanns often commandeer the automatons for their 
experiments into expanded intelligence. As most of the inter 
nal mechanisms for their artificial intelligences are in the 
head, early subjects were simply decapitated and their heads 
were replaced with other, larger heads. The subjects of these 
experiments are seldom good for anything but spare parts 
after this. A rare few, however, do survive the experiments 
and show some improvements in mental capacity; before the 


silversanns can learn anything of real value, these altered 
creatures are teleported to Trobriand so he can see what his 
machines are doing. 

Automatons can be a source of information for unfortunate 
adventurers trapped in the Graveyard. Since they usually 
have no orders concerning prisoners, they will speak with 
them if it does not interfere with their job. Strangely enough, 
the minor automatons are close to forming a real society in 
the Graveyard. They help each other whenever doing so does 
not interfere with their individual tasks at hand. They also 
exchange information on a regular basis and know more 
about what is going on with the various parts of the complex 
than any of the other units. This is the only advantage they 
have in their struggle to avoid the scrap heap. 

Ecology: Automatons do not eat and drink. They have little 
or no direct effect on their environment other than such tasks 
as mining. They do remove raw materials from the surround 
ing stone, but not in a random or destructive manner. 

Rings of Trobriand 

These magical rings are the creation of Trobriand, creator of 
various mechanical monsters that infest the Underhalls. The 
rings allow mental contact and command of any of Tro 
briand's automatons, including ferragans, scaladars, silver 
sanns, and thanatars, within 100'. The rings of Trobriand also 
protect the wearer from attacks; the ring shuts down any 
automaton for ldl2 turns upon contact with the wearer. 

The only exceptions to these effects are those automatons 
under the command of Trobriand's Master Ring. Trobriand's 
ring can override any other ring-wearer's orders and issue 
new commands to automatons from a distance of 500'. The 
Master Ring temporarily locks out all other orders as the 
automatons pursue the objectives given by Trobriand and 
also cancels out the shut-down effects of the other minor 
rings. Trobriand has eliminated many hated ex-apprentices 
and rivals in this manner, lulling them into overconfidence 
and then attacking them with their own automaton forces. 



I 


MecbaistfcaL T naps: Cak£> 1 of V 


This card and its companion cards present basic guidelines for various mechanical 
and nonmagical traps found in Undermountain, though they can easily be used in 
any dungeons. The traps are designed to keep players nervous and on their toes as 
well as make their characters fear every turn of the corridor. Because all these traps 
are mechanical, detect magic spells will not reveal their presence. Only careful 
thieves and cautious adventuring parties can hope to avoid these deadly devices. 


Trap Determination 

It is recommended that DMs carefully place these traps within the dungeons. For 
random placement of traps, roll ld6; 1-2 indicates the presence of a trap. To deter 
mine the type of trap, roll ld20 and consult the charts below. 


Random Trap Generator 


1. 

Door Darts 

8. Falling Door 

14. Deadly Treasure 

2. 

Falling Blocks 

9. Trip Wire 

15. Swinging Blades 

3. 

Levers 

10. Weighted Net 

16. Contact Poison 

4. 

Pressure Plates 

11. Tilting Floor 

17. Gas 

5. 

Ejector Plates 

12. Sound Emitter 

18. Falling Floor 

6. 

Ankle Blades 

13. Thrusting Blade 

19. Closing Walls 

7. 

Wall Darts 

20. Furniture Spikes 



1. Door Darts 

Often placed on the locks of doors or large chests, darts fire upon anyone tampering 
with the lock or door. When the trap is sprung, a dart is ejected from the keyhole 
toward the person closest to the lock. Darts have a THACO of 15. When a dart 
strikes, it causes 1-4 points of damage. Poisons are often used to coat the dart for fur 
ther damage or long-term effects. The DM can determine the type of poison, or ran 
domize the effects (roll ld8) using the chart below; "Save" stands for "saving throw 
vs. poison". 

1. Id 12 points of damage (Save for Vi damage). 

2. Id6 points of damage/round for 4 rounds (Save for Vi damage). 

3. 2d6 points of damage after 1 hour (Save for Vi damage). 

4. 3dl0 points of damage after 2 hours (Save for Vi damage). 

5. Id8 points of damage/round for 8 rounds after 24 hours (Save for x h damage). 

6. Disease: -1 point of Strength/hour; death at 0 Strength. 

7. Disease: -1 point of Constitution/ day; death at 0 Constitution. 

8. Death Poison (Save for 2dl0 points of damage). 


1104 


(c)1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 






2. Falling Blocks 

Triggers for these traps usually involve stepping on pressure plates or a trap on a 
door; the area of effect is usually a 10' by 10' or 20' by 20' area. The falling ceiling 
blocks strike with a THACO of 8. All within the area of effect suffer 5dl0 points of 
damage; PCs can make Dexterity checks to dodge the stone but still take damage 
from glancing blows (ldl2 points of damage). 

3. Levers 

These traps are designed to tempt (and punish) the curious. Lever traps are placed 
on corridor walls by themselves or alongside doors and usually consist of three 
wooden levers affixed to a metal plate. Moving the levers sets off the traps -PCs are 
often safer to simply leave the levers alone. Though DMs can create their own lever 
effects, those below are presented as examples. Unless stated otherwise, the effects 
occur within a 20' radius of the lever itself. 


Lever 

Position 

Effect 

One 

Up 

30'x30'x30' gas cloud; 4d4 points of damage. 

One 

Down 

Mild acid dumped on ld4 PCs; 2d6 points of damage to flesh, no 
effect on equipment. 

Two 

Up 

20' deep pit opens in floor; Dexterity check to avoid or take 2d6 
points of fall damage. 

Two 

Down 

Glow-in-the-dark powder falls on targets; effects are the same as 
a faerie fire spell. 

Three 

Up 

2 gallons of oil pour on targets. 

Three 

Down 

Torch drops within area of effect; if coated in oil, roll 3d6 points 
of burning oil damage. 

All 

Up 

Grease is released on the floor; effects same as a grease spell. 

All 

Down 

2d6 venomous snakes are released. 


4. Pressure Plates 

Stepping on a pressure plate causes it to swing open, dropping the victim into a pit 
below (Dexterity check to avoid). The plate resets itself (on a spring hinge) unless 
the victim doesn't fit through the 10' square area. The effects of the plate trap 
depend on how far the victim falls and what is in the area beneath him. DMs can 
create their own effects based on the following examples. 

• Standard 10' deep pit (ld6 pts. of damage) 

• Snake-filled pit (ld6 pts. of damage + ldl2 venomous snakes) 

• Contact poison walls (ld6 pts. of damage + DM's poison choice) 

• 3' deep acid-filled pit (2dl2 pts. of damage; destroys all metal) 

• Chute to deeper level or to a teleport, dumping character outside 
Pressure plates are also used simply to trigger other mechanical traps. 







r 

MechaK))caL T naps: Cak& II of V 

This card and its companions present basic guidelines for various mechanical traps 
in Undermountain. For random trap setup and traps of types 1-4, see Card I. For trap 
types 11-20, see Cards III-V. 

5. Ejector Plates 

These sections of floor, usually in 5' or 10' square sections. They are triggered by 
weights in excess of 150 pounds, thus saving rats and small dungeon creatures from 
falling prey to them. When a victim steps on a plate, the floor section springs upward 
on a strong spring or column, smashing the victim against the ceiling. The force of 
the strike inflicts 4d6 points of blunt damage. These traps reset themselves within a 
few rounds if not spiked open. Variations on these traps hurl victims toward walls or 
up into "pit traps" in the ceiling. 

6. Ankle Blades 

Ankle blades are sharp, round blades that whir out from a door or chest, roughly four 
inches above ground level. These blades cut through even the thickest of leather 
boots and cause 2d4 points of damage on a THACO of 10; plate mail and plate armor 
comes with metal shin guards, negating the attack. In addition, the target creature's 
movement rate is cut to half normal until the damage to the legs is healed. These 
blades can be coated with contact poison, increasing the peril to the victims. 

7. Wall Darts 

Wall darts can be connected to floor plates, door traps, trip wires, and other triggers. 
Careful adventurers can detect these traps by noticing small holes in dungeon walls 
(or in the floor or ceiling). The darts fly out of these holes toward the creatures 
standing in a specific 10' by 10' (or larger) square area. Most wall dart traps contain 
from 10 to 80 darts (Id8xl0). They are treated in groups of 10, and each group 
attacks as a 4HD monster. Targets gain no Dexterity bonuses to Armor Class due to 
the large number of darts. ldlO darts strike the target with each successful hit, 

| inflicting 1 point of damage per dart (or more if coated with poison). 

8. Falling Door 

This is a simple but dangerous trap with a sense of humor. The door is usually made 
of stone or heavy wood banded by metal. The door has hinges on one side, but they 
are only for decoration. When someone pulls on the door handle, the door falls on 
its opener with great force, like a drawbridge. Individuals within an area as wide and 
tall as the door suffer 2dl0 points of blunt damage and are held in place until the 
i door is lifted off them (Successful Dexterity check to avoid). This trap cannot be dis 
armed. However, a successful Remove Traps roll reveals the nature of how the door 
opens. 


1104 


(c)1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 




f 


9. Trip Wire 

Carefully placed across corridors and chambers, these hard-to-spot wires are the 
downfall of many adventurers. Characters can spot trip wires with an Intelligence 
check. Those who come into contact with the wires must roll their Dexterity or less 
or fall forward, suffering 2 points of damage from the impact. In addition, the victims 
usually fall into or trigger a more hazardous trap. DMs are encouraged to devise their 
own trip wire menaces. The following chart lists some possibilities; roll ld8 for ran 
dom use as traps. 

1. Victim falls directly into a pudding or ooze. The creature receives a free round of 
attacks on the victim. 

2. Victim falls head first into a pit trap. 

3. Victim falls onto a floor section with contact poison which causes ldl2 points of 
damage (saving throw vs. poison for V 2 damage). 

4. The victim suffers ld6 points of damage from the razor-sharp trip wire (unless 
wearing high boots or metal shin guards). 

5. Triggering the trip wire causes spikes to rise from the floor. The spikes hit random 

victims within the room or corridor (THACO 12) for 2d6 points of damage (roll 
Dexterity or less for V 2 damage). 

6. Triggering the trip wire causes a section of wall to slide down behind the trip 
wire, isolating the victim from his or her friends. 

7. The victim falls forward into a pile of broken glass, suffering 2d6 points of dam 
age. The trip wire pulls back the floor covering the T deep pit filled with glass. 

8. Triggering the trip wire prevents a Falling Blocks trap (see Trap #2 above) from 
being set off. Those who step over this wire activate a pressure plate on the other 
side. Moving the wire locks the plate in place and keeps the block from falling. 

10. Weighted Net 

This simple trap is intended merely to hold intruders and thieves for a brief time and 
are often placed in front of doors to private chambers and laboratories. Weighted 
nets are released when adventurers fail to detect a trap on a door or fail to neutralize 
the trap. 

A weighted net falls on a 10' by 10' square, making a loud thud because of the 
weights attacked to it. This noise alerts the individuals or creatures on the other side 
of the door, giving them at least 1 round to prepare for the intruders. Those caught 
in the net (characters must make a successful Dexterity check to dodge the net) are 
automatically immobile for one round. During the next round, they are allowed a 
save vs. Dexterity at a -2 penalty. Successful PCs can spend the round climbing out 
of the net. Those who fail are hopelessly tangled and need ld4 additional rounds to 
free themselves. The net causes no damage. Variations on this trap place creatures 
nearby, such as spiders and stirges that are released when the net is dropped, or cre 
ating a heavy net of cloth-wrapped chains to prevent cutting. 







Mechaio)caL T mcps: Cak& IN of V 

This card and its companions present basic guidelines for various mechanical traps 
in Undermountain. For random trap setup and traps of types 1-10, see Cards I-II. 
For trap types 15-20, see Cards IV-V. 

11. Tilting Floor 

This device is often placed in long corridors that end in open doors. Stepping on a 
pressure plate somewhere in the hall causes the back end of the corridor to rise (or 
one end to lower to another door!), sending PCs sliding through the door. Of course, 
dangers usually await with the benefit of surprise on all victims. DMs can choose 
monsters and traps or roll ld20 on the chart below. 

1. Gelatinous cube. The first two victims slide into contact with it. 

2. Green slime. 

3. Pudding (black, brown, dense, dun, gray, or stone). 

4. Mold, (brown, death, deep, gray, russet, or yellow). 

5. Ochre jelly or gray ooze. 

6. The room is a 30' deep pool with a crystal ooze at the bottom. 

7. The room is a 30' deep pool with a giant pike in the water. 

8. The room is a 30' deep pool with a scrag living in the water. 

9. The room beyond is a 30' deep pit (3d6 falling damage). 

10. The room beyond is covered with angled spikes (4d6 damage). 

11. Falling into the room beyond triggers a Gas trap (see Trap 17). 

12. Moving into the room triggers a Falling Block trap (see Trap 2). 

13. The room is filled with loose sand-victims sink into it in 2 rounds and suffo 
cate in 3d4 rounds. 

14. Tar. Victims with less than a 14 Strength are held fast. 

15. The room's floor is coated with dust of sneezing and choking. 

16. Trapper. 

17. Id6 mudmen. 

j 18. Idl2 skeletons. 

19. 1 d4 random monsters. 

20. Shrieker or 3 gas spores. 

12. Sound Emitters 

Designed to attract or alert monsters, these traps are affixed to pressure plates, locks, 
trip wires, and other triggers. By setting off a trigger, mechanisms cause mallets to 
strike gongs, pulleys to ring bells, etc. The noises are loud and often amplified by the 
surroundings. The noises continue until the trap is disarmed; check for wandering 
monsters during each round of noise. Silence spells negate these traps only if the 
noise-making mechanism is in the spell's area of effect; many are placed away from 
; the trap, where many don't think to cast a silence spell. 


1104 


(c)1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 







13. Thrusting Blade 

This trap is often disguised as an ornate design with a thin opening or an animal's 
head with its mouth open; it is affixed to a door or wall - anything that has a lock 
within 6 inches of it. If the trap is not successfully disabled twice (once at the trigger 
like the lock or a trip wire, once at the opening), it will be activated upon the one 
attempting to disable it. 

When the trap is triggered, either by failing to notice it or by unsuccessfully 
removing it, a blade thrusts out of the thin opening, focusing on the target tamper 
ing with the lock. The blade attacks with a THACO of 15, and the double-edged 
blade delivers 2d4 points of damage. The blades are occasionally coated with poison. 

Most thrusting blade traps are set at a human's waist level so the blade can catch 
short demihumans, too. However, variations place the blades at knee- or shoulder- 
level, or multiple blades out at different levels. Rarer variations place the openings 
behind the targets, facing the door, with a spear firing into the back of the offending 
trespasser. 

14. Deadly Treasure 

What looks like treasure is actually an insidious trap. Attempts to use or handle the 
item set the trap off. In most cases, disarming the trap ruins the item. The list below 
details several examples of trapped treasures that are likely to catch PCs unaware, as 
they don't detect as magical or cursed items (though trap detection works as always). 
DMs are encouraged to add to the list. 


1. Deadly spyglass. Putting this to an eye releases a spike that stabs the victim's eye, 
causing ld4 points of damage; the character is blinded in that eye if a saving 
throw vs. paralysis fails. 

2. Barbed bracelet/armband. When this object is affixed to a wrist or arm and clasped 
shut, it locks and immediately releases six small barbed blades into the wearer for 
ld8 points of damage. If the jewelry is removed or twisted, its barbs cause ld4 
points of damage to the wearer. 

3. Sharp goblet. Always ornamental and made of precious metals, these nasty goblets 
have a razor-sharp rim. Drinking from the goblet cuts the user's lips, inflicting 
ld4 points of damage. 

4. Poisoned baubles. Looking much like gold dust, this contact poison is deadly to 
greedy adventurers. With an onset time of 4 rounds, adventurers can expose 
themselves to it numerous times before they notice any effects. Merely picking up 
a piece of treasure forces the victim to save vs. poison (success negates the poi 
son) or suffer ld8 points of damage later. Picking up multiple poisoned treasures 
requires separate saving throws (at cumulative penalties of -1 per contact) and 
inflicts cumulative damage. 






Mecba*j)caL T naps: Cak& IV of V 

This card and its companions present basic guidelines for various mechanical traps 
in Undermountain. For random trap setup and traps of types 1-14, see Cards I-III. 
For trap types 18-20, see Card V. 

15. Swinging Blades 

These pendulum-like blades are affixed to stonework above trapped doors or corridors, 
hidden by spiders' webs or shadows. Victims who do not notice the trap or who fail to 
disarm it set the swinging blades in motion. The blades have a path usually 1-5' wide 
directly in front of the door they were guarding, hitting the creature that triggers the 
trap with a THACO of 14. When triggered, the blades sweep down on those within the 
arc, striking victims for 2d6 points of damage. On subsequent rounds, if the victims 
win initiative, they are allowed to jump out of the blades' path. Failure means the 
blades swing on their return path, possibly striking for another 2d6 points of damage. 
The blades swing for a total of 10 rounds until they lose momentum and come to rest. 

One variation on the blade traps is to send two pendulum-like blades swinging 
from both directions, giving the trap two attacks each round that can cause 2d6 
points of damage each. 

16. Contact Poison 

One of the deadliest traps in any dungeon, contact poison can injure or kill adven 
turers no matter what their level or how much armor they wear. Contact poison 
traps are built into chamber ceilings or door frames and are affixed to trip wires and 
pressure plates. Those triggering the trap cause a section of dungeon ceiling to 
release the poison, spraying the poison in a fine mist that falls or sprays onto all 
within the area of effect. Those within the dimensions of the trap are automatically 
hit by the poison. The strength of the poison can vary widely but usually depends on 
the area of effect. Consult the table below to determine the area covered and the 
type or strength of the poison. 

1. 5' by 5'. Victims need a saving throw vs. poison or die, with a successful saving 
throw suffering only 3-24 (3d8) points of damage. 

2. 10' by 10'. All those in the area of effect suffer 2dl2 points of damage and must 
make a successful saving throw vs. poison or suffer an additional 2dl2 points of 
damage. 

3. 20' by 20'. All those in the area of effect suffer ld8 points of damage and must 
make a successful saving throw vs. poison or suffer ld8 points of damage for each 
of the next 3 rounds. 

4. 30' by 30'. All those in the area of effect must save versus poison or suffer 2d6 
points of damage. 

Variations on this trap include spraying the victims with dust of sneezing and choking, 
dust of apperance (useful vs. invisible thieves), or troglodyte oil (same effect as nor 
mal troglodyte). 


1104 


(c)1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 








17. Gas 

A gas trap can be triggered by pressure plates, trip wires, or -most often -by failing 
to detect the trap and unlock a door or chest. When triggered, a fragile glass globe 
drops onto a section of floor (or even within the chest). The glass shatters, releasing 
a quickly-evaporating liquid that turns to gas upon contact with air. The gas gener 
ates a cloud 60' long by 60' wide by 30' deep; the gas remains viable and active for 
ld6 rounds. All those caught within the cloud are subject to the effects of the gas. 
Some potential gas traps include: 

1. Chlorine gas: Those in the cloud suffer 6d6 points of damage, save versus poi 
son for half damage. 

2 • Sleep gas: Victims, regardless of racial benefits, must save versus paralyzation 
or fall unconscious for 2d4 rounds. 

3. Tear gas: Victims automatically suffer ld8 points of damage. In addition, they 
must make a saving throw versus paralyzation or be blinded for ld6 turns. 

4. Paralyzation gas: Those caught in this potent cloud suffer no damage but must 
save versus paralyzation or become paralyzed, falling to the ground but con 
scious, for 3d4 rounds. 

5 ¦ Poison gas: Victims automatically suffer 2d4 points of damage and must save 
versus poison or suffer an additional 2d4 points for each round within the gas 
cloud. 

6. Noxious gas: This gas causes no physical damage. Those caught within the 
gas cloud must save versus poison or be incapacitated for 2d4 rounds. Those 
who save can leave the cloud. Characters need additional saving throws as 
long as they remain in the cloud. 

7. Opaque gas: This gas cloud has no harmful effect on anyone within it, though 
it is a jet-black opaque cloud that obscures all normal and magical vision, 
including infravision. 

8. Magic-Dampening gas: This gas temporarily negates magical items, causing 
all their magics to be deadened for ldl2 rounds. (Only artifacts get saving 
throws against this effect.) 

9. Corrosive gas: This gas coats the characters within the area of effect, affecting 
all metal items carried like a rust monster's touch. Items do gain a saving 
throw vs. acid to prevent rusting and disintegration; magical metal items add 
+2 to the save with each plus (a +2 weapon gains +4 for the saving throw). 

10. Rotting gas: This gas coats all within the area of effect and interacts with the 
curing agents in leather, working for ld8 rounds before its effects are noticed. 
The gas rots and dissolves all leather (save vs. acid to resist, though magical 
items only gain + 1 per plus to their saves). This affects leather straps, armor, 
gloves, boots, belts, quivers, shield straps, etc. 











MecbaiotcaL Tmcps: Cak& V of V 

This card and its companions present basic guidelines for various mechanical traps 
in Undermountain. For random trap setup and traps of types 1-17, see Cards I-IV. 

18. Falling Floor 

These traps are often set on tile floors in corridors or rooms. Each section of tile must 
be at least three feet square, large enough to handle even the largest fighter and his 
or her gear. Specific sections of tile are always safe. This allows those who know the 
pattern of which tiles are trapped to travel the area without risk. However, the 
remainder of the tiles will drop out from under those walking on them, hurling the 
individual into: 

1. a 40' deep pit with greased walls (4d6 points of falling damage). The victim 
cannot climb the walls to get out of the pit. 

2. a 60' high cavern (6d6 points of falling damage) that is often filled with mon 
sters or other menaces (ld4 random monsters). 

3. an oiled chute that transports the victim to another place in the dungeon. 
The victim suffers only ld6 points of damage from the fall and ride and must 
deal with whatever is at the end of it. Because of the slippery oil, the victim 
cannot climb back up the chute. 

4. a 30' long chute that quickly narrows to 6' by 6' in its final ten feet, wedging 
the victim in tight due to momentum. The victim suffers ld6 points of dam 
age and must be extracted by strong associates (combined Strength of 30 
needed to free stuck PCs). 

For variety, the falling floor tiles can be increased to encompass slabs of rock flooring 
as well, if not the entire floor of a room! 


19. Closing Walls 

These massive mechanical death traps are engineered for entire sections of corridors 
or rooms. They are usually triggered by pressure plates or the movement of certain 
doors; they can also used in conjunction with other traps, such as false floor traps 
that send victims into a closing wall trap room. Once in the room or corridor, the 
doors lock (or blocks fall into place), trapping victims in the rooms or corridors. 
Once triggered, the walls begin to close in on the victims, moving 6" to Y a round 
(depending on the trap) until the walls touch in the middle. Once the walls close 
within four feet of each other, victims between the walls take 2dl0 points of crush 
ing damage. Victims who are not able to exit the trap, either by physical or magical 
means, are crushed and killed when the walls come together. 



Spells such as passwall and stone shape can be used to stop the moving walls -unless 
the traps lie in magic-dead areas. . . . 

Variations on this trap cause the ceiling and floor to close in on trapped victims or 
the ceiling, floor, and the walls to move in. 


(c)1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 







20. Furniture Spikes 

As deadly as they are unexpected, furniture spikes have wounded or slain many an 
exhausted or curious adventurer. Complex mechanical traps, furniture spikes are 
released when weight is placed on them or when the furniture is warmed by body 
heat. The spikes are primarily found in chairs and beds, though they also can be 
placed in footstools, tubs, couches and other items. 

Spikes are most often placed in elaborate pieces of furniture, items too enticing to 
be left untouched or untried; for example, thrones in treasure rooms or opulent halls 
are perfect to be trapped with spikes. The spikes are also difficult to detect in ornate 
furniture, as swirls, designs, and decorations in the wood or metal easily hide the 
release mechanisms. Thieves attempting to detect these traps within the ornate fur 
niture suffer a -20% penalty on finding the trap. 

When the triggering mechanism is activated (whether by heat or weight), spikes 
shoot forth from the furniture, impaling those resting upon them. Most spikes are 
sharp pieces of metal four to six inches in length. Spikes are usually found in armrests 
and the backs of chairs. Longer spikes, 24' to 36' inches long, are found in beds and 
sofas. A hero sitting in a chair could find his arms pierced by the spikes or his back 
stabbed. A piece of furniture usually has 4-16 spikes. Each spike delivers ld4 points 
of damage and strikes with a THACO of 8. 

Some variations of this "furniture trap" alter the damaging weapon and its work 
ing: 

• Arm rests suddenly clamp down on the seated person's wrists, two blades jut 
ting from the sides of the arm rests dealing ld8 damage each; 

• Clamps wrap around the character's arms and chest, preventing escape 
(Strength 20 to break), while the chair or seat begins to roll toward a mon 
ster-infested pit; or 

• The chair back falls backward, sending a large scythe up and into the seated 
character. 

Combining Traps 

Obviously, any number of these traps can be combined with some of the others, cre 
ating a deadly gauntlet trap with numerous dangers threatening simultaneously. To 
make things easier on the adventurers, link all the combined traps to one or two 
triggers to allow thieves to detect the traps with some amount of fairness. Examples 
of combination traps include: 

• A closing walls trap that causes the floor to rise toward the multiple swinging 
pendulum blades closer to the ceiling; 

• A tilting floor trap that combines a few trip wires along its length to prepare a 
dangerous room at the bottom; or 

• A falling door trap, combined with a false floor trap, that causes characters to 
disappear beneath its weight and be dropped somewhere else within the 
dungeons! 








M&gtcaL T naps: Cak& VI 

Magical traps, by and large, are placed in doorways and in places where protection is 
needed (like vaults and laboratories). Most magical traps within Undermountain 
can be bypassed by uttering a password or phrase that prevents a spell from being 
activated. However, adventurers rarely learn these words, and are most often the rea 
son for the placing of such magics. Once activated, magical traps are disarmed until 
reset by their creator (unless noted otherwise below). 

1. Evard's black tentacles. Often placed on a chest or door, this magical trap has a 
delayed Evard's black tentacles spell within it. When the trap is set off, 12 
10' long tentacles spring forth from the trapped object. Each tentacle is AC 4 
and has 10 hit points. Creatures within range of the tentacles must roll a suc 
cessful saving throw vs. spell or suffer 2d4 points of damage and be encircled 
by a tentacle. Such individuals suffer 3d4 points of damage for each round 
held. Victims who make their saving throws suffer only ld4 points of damage, 
and the tentacle they touched disappears. The tentacles remain for one hour 
if they contacted any targets. 

2 • Polymorph. Although this trap catches only one individual, it is extremely 

potent. The individual triggering the trap must make a saving throw versus 
spell or be transformed into a creature that poses no threat to the dungeon 
owner. Typical creatures include garden snakes, goldfish, turtles, hamsters, 
squirrels, and rabbits. The trap effects are the same as a normal polymorph 
other spell. 

3 . Faerie Fire. This is always an area-of-effect spell, and usually targets creatures 

within a 10' by 10' section of a corridor or room. When this trap is triggered, 
a faerie fire spell is released and all creatures within the area of effect glow for 
the following four turns, making them easier targets for their opponents and 
tagging them as trespassers in the Underhalls. 

4 . Confusion. Also an area-of-effect spell, a confusion spell engulfs all creatures 

within a designated 10' by 10' area when triggered. Each creature or character 
must save versus spell or be affected by the spell as if it were cast by a 12th- 
level wizard. 

5 . Laughter. Those who employ these traps have a morbid sense of humor. Trig 

gering these traps releases an extended version of the Tasha's uncontrollable 
hideous laughter spell. All those in a 60' cube are must save versus spell or fall 
into fits of giggling and chuckling, finding all around them hilariously funny 
for 5 rounds (as per the spell). This raucous noise attracts wandering monsters 
(rolls of 1 on ld6 each round while spell effects are in play). 






¦ 


6. Triple Image. The person who triggers this trap releases a spell with effects 
similar to a mirror of opposition; the spell is usually placed on mirrors and other 
reflective surfaces, or even nonreflective doors. Two duplicates of the individ 
ual appear and begin to fight him or her. The duplicates cannot be distin 
guished from the original, and they fight with all the magical items and 
abilities of the original. They do not, however, possess any magic spells. 
Unlike a mirror of opposition, these duplicates survive for a limited duration. 
They can fight for only 6 rounds before disappearing. Duplicates that are 
defeated vanish immediately. 


7. Trap of Wonder. This perplexing magical trap is always embedded in a chest or 
door. Opening the door or chest releases the effects of a wand of wonder. In 
fact, a wand is used in the construction of the trap, and a charge is expended 
from the wand when the door or chest is opened. Consult the wand of wonder 
in the DUNGEON MASTER(tm) Guide. Treat all references to target and 
wielder as the individual who triggered the trap. Each time the door or chest 
is closed, the trap is reset and ready to be triggered again. 

8. Sticky situation. This is a simple magical trap and can be used on doors, chests, 
treasure, furniture, etc. It consists of one or more vials of sovereign glue poured 
over the object. This glue is then specially treated so it will not harden until 
it bonds with another object -i.e. an adventurer's hand or weapon or even a 
cloak. Refer to sovereign glue in the DUNGEON MASTER Guide for more 
info. 

9. Tongue-tied. When this trap is triggered, all those within a 10' by 10' area are 
subject to the effects of a philter of stammering and stuttering. Victims do not 
receive a saving throw, and this condition lasts for exactly 1 turn. 


10. Blindness. An area-of-effect magical trap, all those within a 15' square area are 
subject to blindness, as per the wizard spell. Those who do not successfully 
save versus spells are struck blind (-4 penalty to attack rolls, +4 bonus to 
opponents) until a dispel magic is cast. Each affected individual requires one 
dispel magic. 





DuKigeoKJ Illusions: Carzd VII 

Many corridors and chambers within Undermountain are filled with a series of "pro 
grammed" illusions to bedevil and frighten intruders. These spells can harm creatures 
who believe the illusions are real; consult the section on illusions in the 
DUNGEON MASTER(tm) Guide for more information. These spells are activated 
when a predetermined action takes place, such as opening a door, entering a corri 
dor, picking up a piece of treasure, etc. These illusions are rarely, if ever, linked to 
obvious triggers like trip wires and pressure plates. PCs who wish to or have reason to 
disbelieve the illusions are allowed a Wisdom check; success lets them see through 
the illusion. 

1. Ghostly vision. The ghost of a beautiful human woman drifts toward the 
adventurers. Clad in a wispy white robe, her hair curls like smoke about her 
head. Her arms are outstretched, as if to embrace someone. As she nears the 
group, she turns into a grotesque, ghostly creature resembling a wight, and 
then she fades from view. Those who witness this entire illusion without 
looking away or disbelieving age one year from their own shock and fear as 
well as the magic of the trap. Other visions represent handsome men, playful 
children, toiling dwarves, etc. 

2. Howling horde. A horde of screaming ores thunder down a corridor, threat 
ening to trample all who stand in their path. Victims who believe the illusion 
suffer 2d4 points of damage as they try to fight the non-existent creatures or 
get out of their way. 

3. Helpful fiend. Coming around a bend, the characters see a rugged fighter, 
scarred from a battle but still pursuing his attackers down the hall. He waves 
to the adventurers and encourages them to follow him, ducking around a cor 
ner. This illusion leads adventurers into a trap or a room filled with monsters. 
Variations on this illusion are frightened females running in terror or kobolds 
trying to escape the adventurers. 

4. Change in weather. This section of the dungeon grows instantly colder. Ice 
covers everything and the adventurers can see their breath. This is illusion 
often augmented with control weather spells. PCs believing the illusion are 
slowed by the temperature (as per the spell) as long as they stay in these "cold/ 
surroundings. Variations on this illusion place the PCs in steaming corridors 
where fire laps at their feet. 

5. Spooky footfalls. Though no physical harm comes from this illusion, it 
should put the PCs (and players) on the edge. Footfalls come from behind 
them, followed by raspy breathing and the sounds of chains. Spiderwebs flut 
ter in an unseen breeze and candles flicker and threaten to go out. This illu 
sion culminates with maniacal laughter. Those fully believing the illusion are 
subject to the effects of a fear spell. 


1104 


(tm) & (c)1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 







6 . False treasure. A room or corridor appears to contain a meager amount of 
treasure - coins, a few pieces of jewelry, a weapon. The treasure is small 
enough to be believable. The intent of this programmed illusion is to get the 
PCs to pause and look over the false loot, giving nearby predators a chance to 
sneak up behind them. 

7. Toothy horror. Upon opening this magically-trapped door, the doorway and 
room beyond suddenly look like a large mouth. The floor becomes a tongue, 
writhing like a snake, and the teeth-filled walls appear to be closing in. Varia 
tions of this illusion make the room appear to be filled with a giant green 
slime, gelatinous cube, pudding, etc. Though no immediate damage occurs 
from the illusion, it masks the actual threats posed by real slimes or puddings 
within the room or later in the dungeon. 

8 . Random monster. Creatures that populate this dungeon area are found in 

this room. The creatures usually appear numerous and large and are used to 
dissuade adventurers from entering. 

9 . Dead adventurers. Also used to discourage trespassers from entering deeper 

into the dungeon, these illusions depict explorers in various states of decay. 
Claw and burn marks cover the bodies, and all possessions appear to be 
looted. The closer adventurers get to "restricted" areas of the dungeon, the 
more disgusting these illusions seem. 

10. Moving shadows. Used more to evoke horror than anything else, these illu 
sions make it appear that the player characters' shadows have taken on lives 
of their own. The shadows move independently from the characters and seem 
to threaten and taunt the PCs. In variations, the adventurers' shadows fight 
and kill each other. 

11. Heartbeats. Audible illusions within a certain hall or room make the PCs 
believe they are hearing their own heartbeats increase in volume. The noise 
swells until it becomes near deafening. PCs who fail Wisdom checks believe 
the illusion and fall unconscious from the noise for ld6 rounds. If a character 
makes a successful Wisdom check, he or she has "seen" through the illusion 
and the noise abates (though not for others). After two or more PCs succumb 
to the illusion, it tapers off, with the heartbeat sounds returning to normal. 
Variations of this auditory illusion allow the PCs to hear the sounds of foot 
steps, clothes rustling, or their own breathing all increased to deafening pro 
portions. 

12. Screams. PCs hearing this audible illusion might believe someone is in pain 
nearby. When the PCs reach the area where the sound seems to originate, 
they see nothing and the screaming stops -only to start behind them a 
moment later. Variations on this illusion create growls, snarls or laughter. 
This type of auditory illusion does not have any immediate effect on the char 
acters (beyond some role-playing touches), though it can easily be used to 
lure hurried PCs into a trap or away from something important. 







U\)6eRcDouK)Ta)KJ II 
TReasuRe Tablesr Car<3 VIII 

Dungeon adventurers are always looking for treasure, whether it's in the lair of a 
vanquished creature, in the nooks and crannies of a shadow-filled chamber, or in the 
belt pouches of deceased thieves. The Tables below will help you add items to tease 
and please the player characters. These tables are, of course, just additions to the 
Treasure tables within the FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Adventures sourcebook and 
other ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) game sources. 


Table 1: Baubles and Decorations 

Roll ld20 for treasures. 

1. Glass beads (20 gp) 

2. One gold earring (40 gp) 

3. Broken gems (10 gp ea.) 

4. Glass box (20 gp) 

5. Pewter goblet (30 gp) 

6. Ornate quill (15 gp) 

7. Iron cloak clasp (20 gp) 

8. Silver spoon (18 gp) 

9. Tiny mirror (12 gp) 

10. Coral figurine (35 gp) 

Table 2: Valuable Clothing 

Roll ld20 for treasures. 

1. Fine leather belt (15 gp) 

2. Silk scarf (24 gp) 

3. Leather gloves (12 gp) 

4. Embroidered gown (50 gp) 

5. Heavy wool tunic (10 gp) 

6. Satin nightshirt (7 gp) 

7. Leather breeches (40 gp) 

8. Heavy wool cloak (25 gp) 

9. Embroidered cape (40 gp) 

10. Woven tunic (28 gp) 


11. Ornate comb (30 gp) 

12. Ring w/ stone missing (25 gp) 

13. Chipped brooch (35 gp) 

14. Ornate plate (18 gp) 

15. Small vase (10 gp) 

16. Copper inkwell (15 gp) 

17. Bottle of perfume (25 gp) 

18. Brass cup (30 gp) 

19. Silver nose ring (40 gp) 

20. Polished stone (12 gp) 


11. Embroidered cloak (45 gp) 

12. Silk stockings (24 gp) 

13. Leather shirt (35 gp) 

14. Velvet cape (80 gp) 

15. Tooled leather boots (90 gp) 

16. Satin gown (65 gp) 

17. Tooled leather hat (15 gp) 

18. Silk-lined cape (75 gp) 

19. Long leather skirt (55 gp) 

20. Satin wizard robes (75 gp) 


Table 3: Bits of Armor and Weapons 

Roll ld20 for treasures. 


1. 

One mailed glove 

11. 

Dented large shield 

2. 

One silvered dagger 

12. 

Bronze chest plate 

3. 

Broken short sword 

13. 

Chainmail shirt 

4. 

Studded leather tunic 

14. 

Small shield 

5. 

Mace head 

15. 

Ornate sword pommel 

6. 

Dented helmet 

16. 

Strap for throwing daggers 

7. 

Tooled leather scabbard 

17. 

Worn suit of leather armor 

8. 

Ornate helmet 

18. 

Silvered spear tip 

9. 

Leather quiver 

19. 

Crossbow 

10. 

Flail 

20. 

Battered long sword 


> & (c) 1994 TSR Inc. All rights Reserved. 


1104 






Table 4: Clues and Puzzles 

Roll ldlO for treasures. 

1. One-half of a treasure map for another dungeon 

2. A scrawled note warning of what lies in the room beyond 

3. A riddle about a powerful foe in the dungeon 

4. A shield engraved with the name of a famous adventurer 

5. Broken bones arranged in a circle 

6. Arrows arranged in a pattern 

7. A bag filled with spell components dangling on a long cord 

8. A broken contraption resembling a mouse trap 

9. Words etched in the floor indicating a way out of the dungeon 

10. Runes drawn in the dust on the floor 

Table 5: Pouch Contents 

Roll ld20 for treasures. 

1. 5 gp, 5 sp, 4 cp 

2. Glass beads 

3. Colored sand 

4. Crushed spices 

5. Gold ring (50 gp) 

6. Dried fruit 

7. Unidentified powder 

8. 40 gp, 25 sp 

9. Sealing wax and taper 

10. Ancient coins (50 gp) 

Table 6: Odds and Ends 

Roll ldl2 for items. 

1. Woven tapestry, various scenes (120 gp each) 

2. Ornamental rug, value varies between 10-200 gp (ld20 xlO) 

3. Pewter candleholders (60 gp per holder) 

4. Down quilt of various designs and materials (80 gp) 

5. Thick curtains, assorted colors (40 gp a pair) 

6. Full-sized marble statue (300 gp, 600 pounds) 

7. Carved wooden chair (150 gp, 100 pounds) 

8. Brass torch holders (30 gp each) 

9. Assorted books and manuscripts (20 gp per book) 

10. Chandelier made of crystal and stones (300 gp, 150 pounds) 

11. Small table with marble top (120 gp, 100 pounds) 

12. Large ceramic or crystal bowl (90 gp) 


11. Assorted spell components 

12. Tobacco 

13. Pepper 

14. Two coins snapped in half 

15. Small stones 

16. Moldy cheese 

17. 10 cp 

18. Signet ring (35 gp) 

19. Sea shells 

20. Three pearls (40 gp each) 










sS&a&fis 

@ "$:$!] 
m msm 

iri mm 


fK&fv'S&i 

IM 


Mi 


iv ,?'(c)S 


mm(r) 

>&&$& 


K 

i fiUgf.Vv* 


SSatfjSgg 

; te(r)l 

tfMl 

l&Mfi 


2 




UNDERMOUNTAJKi 









































































W$w^m 

• VaJ liiMfl !W 




rs*te& 

ttl 


W"iwl (c)£&&¦£ 


SKiSjwtK 


iSSiwn 


mm 


*5*if.*Si 

M.V&P 




** 



















- 














; 










' 


M 

g 


s 

If 

3) 


' 

• 



5(r) 




















-i 
"i 
















+4 













































































































































S-ESIJSRfl 


mm 


S"\ 


.. $ Aw"| 

32 (r)SA|"c(mr 

Maftfflftflayii 

aftr^?^5v 1 

||tti 




ySM£s"§SjBg" 

HI+S ^J-J ^ 


^w£s 5 $< 


MM 


ffliHfcfesavfft 


MB 

SB 

9 R 


9W 

^l| | 

r 

a"P 



rir 

£ 



y 






wfsr 


MT^Rf 1 

fjsm 





H 

.£¦ 


fiS 

MB' 

j jfl 



A! 


3$ 

jSk*'' 























































xajfissK*: 




vm 


LMl&ud 

LTE 

iSBmi 


i"w" 


$MM| 


wmm 

"Ml 

I B &EB&i I 

¦ ,?$"&* 8 

I k| 

I fealii 


*$S£-'£ 








! 







+ 

¦*T 





¦A 










its ^ 



%" 

dL 











' 




_ 

- 

" 

-i 

| 

h 



f 




Ei 


L 

-i 

_ 































































































































































































i'Ynjvw Krn^TTw'tjyurL " 


En"i 

ir 


it; 


£ ¦' ••_!^. X fN V *•* C 









































































































































































VsSmV? 


•^asirr'w?^ 


W lwAggf 


'Tlvf^V,*! 


ifeVw^i ffij-jff 


JSSSt^Sk 


mn 

M 


saw 

flO 





d 








-i 

u 






S" 

Ts 

TH 




T& 

fc.J 


J 

i 

¦ft 


*Tj 

M 5***1 














fjg 


(iSl 






















































-i \5SfjV 

o: Md 

L 

>Zmf). 


iwvahf 

5S|3gfiBfei 




SJwSl?*? 









-r 


:" 


j 


I ^ rt 

Jli / / 

yJ 






<j" 




gS) 




i Vtl 

tn 

DO 






1 V?3 

it's 

m 

Fp 

l 

12 

aSjr 

Till 


_ 





V 

" 



w 

--j 



M 













































LOUWXXML 



Mm 


mrnm* 

Wkskw 


g0 

mS0J 

85jMf 

MUiriKV 


tfy *" *V - , f 


sssgjjg 

•ft?';;' 


uSsrar 




MMr 

Mil 


iH 


BSBlg giggag 


T 

U- 



"¦"l" 





i 






"' 19*94 TFF, Iftc. All fiiqhl: R"srrY££j. 










































































































\':'i V- ¦! < ¦ -A' U> r />•' 5 ¦ H : .'i 

H' 7 ¦ . yr ^ ~ T fTy" T/j f , ¦ L_ 



?S^S5^5^gSffl^Ses>iSj(r)^! 
Tift %mS 




iSWJ* 


H 

M! 

&fd 3&3 


"-#IE 


&M 


$g?kI'KSSiVj 1 

^in 


















































































ss&siwst 


WisSSSS? 




mm 

mm(r) > 


Ml 

GMRP 

hrlv7faw 


sw"a"s 

Sfeifeg 


fg TT."r >•il 

* 




l-Ti-: rl.-Tf-j/' 

: '^n> j" £j 

r ifeirtx 

j_J J- p _• r -1 


• "--i-' l.!-uJ 














LJJ 

m 



JL-ii/ 


ri 





4- 









¦¦ 





































































































































; 


,u 

K i iflr t*#-' i - .r :J r*j ML 


flffiSv 






¦H 1 

x". 1 











m 



K 























































































































raSBSHHHHRPPg 






i^ospast 

MmA 

m \wA$&M 






Ml 

Mill 

Hpagagfevs 


msv^vsssfim 

mmm 

§0mki 

ws^w 

£$&?&& l"w 


1(r) 

P M%J : 

ipsgg&sg| 

Maw* ! 

mmw 


mM$, 














W: 


?! 



























































































IlMjWt ; 
iflSw 


mam 


r"<*M 

A# 
























. 


".-.jJH 

¦7jr 


" 




!> 


j 

i 











.s 

i 




fWlW'sLH IVSA rYMST> 

T 

N3vu K_rrrTt^-Tvi> > viri \x 







































































































































































VAV'2 




HIM 






gipM 


^jgggp " a 
WMp8| 

sJnUt 


KM 


mm 





m 













C 
















!_| 




f 















1 J" J ^ 1 














~ 1 












r -! 

F 33 


r 




. ,! 




r : 




1 1 

rTT 























¦r 

a 





















r I - 








































til 















































































f 'ygmgm 
htm 

MW 


avijitsp 

iff"9 




KfeSsSks 




"B 








1 



f 


i 






\ 



) 








































Li3 

cn 











V 























4 































Ltf 





















J--' 

w 

















?V 

V 

/ 

r 

j 



F 


:T 



/ 

r 

r -- 

a 

Si 

Eijp 

p 

¦ i 
- - 

7 


¦9 

£< 

Of 


" W 1 


J 

r"a 

n 





r :¦ -• • 

r. _ 

/ 

m 


3 



-' 



L 


>- 


3 " 

B 

R 



4 

L 

3 


E 

ft 

i 

/ 

y 


' ! 

¦ 

H 

| 

5 


nr 

cu 1 

> 

/ 


<s 


r 

r 

= 1 - 
















• -~; 



bEi3s± 


~nn~ 








:. 1 : ; r - . \] ] 



jg -^ 1 , i 


































































































































miQxXxtfQi L 



hNi 


MW 

Ml 


If5ir PA%roS&JQ 


SSfcSJ 

HM 

iWMtl 

$?&# 


SSlHi 


in 

|M 


iS^f'5(r)! 

ntaftpH 

Mi 

teMl 

%&# 




¦ 135-4- 'Tfi L !. Inc All Rights Reserved. 

























































































































































































'AV 



M 

mM 

sStsmBSi 


























ijV*r'*S£V*S"S> 

&&$|3 b 

rn 1"8& 


MmMII s 


MS 


MK <1 

" I 

rn Mi/rfVr. J i 

K# ^ 5 


pMHBB 

fcVjlWcfo; 


RvisSJSt'^s 

^jSa (r) (r) 


y 




















jv 






r 















i - 



LO 













4\ 




Ki 









r 









fJ 

[ 









Vj 










jj 









fftl 
















4' 

*¦ 








1/ 







i 














SI 









l£f 


LU 



ft! 

jf" 







5 

IV 

*s 
















rSt 







































A 










J 










w 
















l* 
























/I 












fj 







































ro 





























































































































































































































































9 fH 


i M 


limt&eisr t&TtfiiaSielv' 

lil giii^ll 


"MM"pi 


smses 


MggffllBtfgg!!* 





































































































































MMMI 




¦Md 

te# 


&&?" 


"w 


imsssasrf 








m 





































































































































? 

1 

r 

?:¦ 


































H 






k 




I 

I n 

TTTTTOT* 



































































hJ. 















-§¦ 


















































J 













(P*T 












J 






* 

% 

" 























































































































CtadUXTOOl L 





mww(r)MMmw4 


*''7"vj!'" 




MMMiW fcr 

flMMu 


i2sHwS"Af{*:s 


l$£# 2 PM 

5sM"f 


"v.-gv 


ifaSl 

MtraWr ii * 

&gM$aegra ;:...:¦ : J 


jiWijaa'feSfgatt 


5SK&Ki 


ifl94 T5fl. Inc All flight Rn^njid 





























































































!"?": JjRw&fftS.'sisftvfErA.rni si Ln 


tmagsm 


'J'***i 

%m% 

m 

m 

(r)k 


sswnw 


iMPMS 


MS 

t"K 


. 

-" 

- 

5- 

-H 

r 


nU 

























(j 


m 








































cj 


o 









". 

; 

p j 


* 


J 5 






|K 














ijj 






J! 

M 

£3 

i\ 

f 1 J 




















in 





e> 




i 

[>j 






1 


i 

A 








































































































































































mssm 




mm 


m r 


&i(r)5iSS 


mss#** 


HM 


i{|W> 


" 


51 

1"1 




--IT 




i - t 





fli 

1 










£<• 








05 






L 

GO 






s 






































































































































































































aitti 


v**v#S 


' i' i 1 "'ill 

"1MM 

iV<^f' V*(tm) 




M 


A . ^ A 


j tesfi&SKM 


Bfitt 


"K 

MAf 


r 





5 



. 












T1 

































03 








































M 













Cfl 





HI 



- 

p" 

































































































































































































































































































MvM 

IS *yiwJj4*A*flV 


























































































p$"wt 


MU 


Hi M 


F&3!?&£ & 


M 


pssi 


asgaffiB! 




mlW"L"j 

m/fj&VA 


trr? 

lJ__ 



4> 




db 












































ijIi 



















JVJ 



^¦1 

1 























-J 

CD 










Ti 


| 




ft 



mi 

n_ 

r 




D5 



l£* 


D H 





± 


a 


\m 

n 


?V rSi ,; r~^ 

afey^^; A >S 



l(% ty- '&& -A : 

"is' 































































































im&m 

-1111 

Ml* 

sn^M 


*MVVi 


aa" 


2 "K(r)S 


gag 


5055 




sgaksii! 


mWHI 



-J 


rj 









to 






m 







* 






- 

Ss 






















cn 


LD 







.. 











CP 






-* 






" 



Vti 


Ci 

!Aij 


?i 
















IS 






Ip 



if 









i 

















gj 
















J i 



























































































































Mn|p 

¦MP 1 




mmm 


mss&w W* 

M;< i(r)4vt it?? 


§psmh 


BBM 


h^n< 






¦a 






MiH 

























ST 

a. 

j 


y 



jesgsj 

[fSJ 

c "-.:- m ¦ 






LUJ 












































































































































































































































< 

& 










! 

P- 










































































































































































t-. 






















































¦J 








s> 




















1 - 






! 

I 

:o 













































































































































•>: 

K 

If 

O 

o 





mmmmm 

iMMlifiS 


'.•svjiaa^SM 




MWM| 


-.?"V1T*K 





BE 


















1 































1 




















W. 

¦JJU 



































































































































































































































































































TTua 



bf/ Donald 

Rabe, and Noram Ritc:bif 


loo/ring for adV^/mire, jre ye? 

£00^^70 for a place brimming with silver and gold, 
a place dripping with things magical? 


i know a plate far and net far from here where all of that-and more-tan 
be had But mind me lads and lassies, there are other things there as well- 
danger and risk and uncertainty, a nd creatures never before seen by me 
hkes of sell-swords and wizards who tread upon the sun lit ands of the 
Realms 


"This place is caned Undemnoudcaan. And it is Far beneath the crust of this 
world, yet right under far Waterdeep it is a dangerous labyrinth nestled 
deep m the bowels of the earth It is a dungeon. I, Eiminscer of Shadowdale, 
know we I I shall tell you of these twisting corridors, and cf the man who 
made them NS Listen ye careful -y-especially if ye are intent on delving 
into its deoths PerhajJs what I tell you could save your life. 

"Perhaps" 


This seque to The RUtNS Of UNDERMOUNTAIN contains tf e 128-page Cam 
pa yn Guide to Lndermountain The Deep (Levels, a 32-page adventure book 
let, a 16-page MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM(r) booklet, four fulkolor, coster-soe 
maps of the levels described in this boxed sec. ara a set of eight DM' - Assist- 


V.ir-v-t 



a nee Cards to aid in crapping the corridors and rooms of this, the greatest 
and mast dangerous dungeon in all the Realms 

The original campaign expansion set wasn't enough? wen, then, pack your 
gear and delve nco Rums of undermouncam n The 3§ep Levels The deep- 
dwellers await! 





-V5E3L* --''v fr' 

S25.DDU.S. 
CAN $32.00 
£15.59 U K 





jf-r . isslw V* 

RCBJM IMChLfich End 

Lafcc-ler^n I H | H Hrt'iCOi^ 

W1551*7 CWlfrlOflt Cfll HU 

u5ji 'jftceo(;.i(^rici"Y' • 


ftDVftMCE& Cn intCfCh^ ft d^AMMS. MONSTROUS 
COMPENDIUM, inn FOBCOTTM RFALM5 nrr*egnCerrtl 
ri.nirk\ n-.*¦ r p n. n y TSIf Irac DilM nr,d therSH iD-jb Are 
rrwefi-iprli'JCJA-rwrSav T5B. Irv- Cop-^nflhto 1 S-EUl T5R 
lr,r All E-qhr^i SF'r-Turd PnnrM In U 5 A 













































