elords Set in
7 - An Epic Adventure! Inclu series plus totally new adventures through th
the fantastic RLD OF GREYHAW
a
TSR, Inc. PROOUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION"
eS ==
Advanced Dungeons Dragons:
OFFICIAL GAME ADVENTURE
ero! а ) RG‏ اد کک ae > оѓ‏
TM % ы
sl. Welonó >
by Cook, Hammack, | Johnson, Schick, and Carmien
TSR Inc. ™ TSR UK Ltd. POB 756 The Mill, Rathmore Road Lake Geneva, WI Cambridge CB14AD 53147
TSR, Inc. United Kingdom PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION”
ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, WORLD OF GREYHAWK, PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION, and the TSR logo are trademarks owned by TSR Inc.
Design: David Cook, Allen Hammack, Harold Johnson, Tom Moldvay, Lawrence Schick, and Ed Carmien
Revision: David Cook
Editing: Harold Johnson, Jon Pickens, Brian Pitzer, Edward G. Sollers, Stephen D. Sullivan, Steve Winter
Cover: Jeff Easley
Interior Art: Ron Lindahn, Val Lakey Lindahn, Erol Otus, Bill Willingham
Cartography: Jean Koebernick, Dave LaForce, Stephen D. Sullivan, David C. Sutherland III
Typography: Linda Bakk
Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House Inc.,
and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR UK Lid.
*Copyright 1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved.
This adventure is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of the material contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR Inc.
First Printing May 1986
Printed in the U.S.A.
Table of Contents
Fotewatd «з» veiw eee еко ааа Introduction ............... У Se Lo ve 4 Chapter 1: The Road to Highport ...... 9955-95-55 TRE IONIAN LAS. бе. 5 Welcomse-to ЗАВ! ... c б», Xr) 8 The Feast at Dame Gold's .................. 8 TReSMISSION icu аЬ ИРЕ, 11 53е in Ereda ERAS O ЕСИ: 15 gavin TOWN. Queer e Re О 18 or A CM War. Vu 19 Fates Worse Than Death .................. 19 Chapter 2: The City of Highport ............... 24 Geomorphic Highport .................... 24 The NPCs of Highport. cunsu sa asse ueser neas 25 Jobs Available 22... sasas tee prre қата. 26 Information х аа ае. 26 Special Encounters |... ost cine лалар. 27 Chapter 3: The Temple of Highport.............29 Key to the Temple Level ................... 30 Key to the Sewer еуеЇ .................... 36 Captured Documents ..................... 45 Chapter 4: [nto the Wilderness .............. 2.47 puja. pon MA АҒАР e S 3. 47 Thee: Le ОКЕ Edi Жыра» 52 Rungway аме: онлай. 55 Chapter 5: The Slavers’ біоскаде...............56 Key:to the Hill Fork ее A. 58 Dungeon Level лә» эж осенним. 74 Chapter 6: The Caves of the Drachensgrab ......90 EBERLE T cu uas UR Eg sre aar АЛТАРЕ A 90 The Caves of the Drachensgrab ............ 92 Chapter 7: The Hidden City of Suderham .......96 The Aerie of the Slave Lords ............... 96 Key to Süderhágr resten vor cire sy sais 98 The Catacombs of Suderham ............. 106 Chapter 8: Dungeons of the Slave Lords ....... 110 Key tothe ТАБЫ LI 112 Chapter 9: Suderham in Flames! ............ ea LID Key to the Island Encounters ............. 119 The Slave Lords .......... WT ITI LY CS II 127 Pre-generated Characters .......... CEU 559128
Here in your hands is the next stage in the sweeping adventure begun in The Temple of Elemental Evil. With this book you can carry on the adventures of the band of heroes introduced in The Temple of Elemen- tal Evil as they journey from the safety of Hommlet to the untamed lands of the Pomarj. Now your players can adventure in the lands of Greyhawk from 1st through 10th levels or even higher.
But these adventures haven't always been The Scourge of the Slave Lords. First pub- lished in 1980 and 1981, they were released as a series of four modules: Al, Slave Pits of the Undercity; A2, Secret of the Slavers Stockade; A3, Assault on the Aerie of the Slave Lords; and A4, In the Dungeons of the Slave Lords. While these four modules linked to each other, there was no thought or intention to connect them to the Temple of Elemental Evil adventures. Indeed, that product had not even been finished at the time!
In truth, the A series of modules had humble origins and simple goals. In late 1979, four members of the TSR Design staff—Lawrence Schick, Harold Johnson, Allen Hammack, and, myself, David Cook—listened with some dismay and unhappiness to complaints from players of the GENCON® Open Tournament.
We had little idea whether these com- plaints were valid, but something had to be done. Before we knew it, we had committed to creating and writing the next year's D&D® Open Tournament.
Great, marvelous—but how were we oing to do it? The first thing we needed was idea that would make the tournament citing. Finally, in November, the thunder- troke came. One cold evening Harold ohnson ran the first adventure of a new D&D® campaign. With a large amount of
Foreword
perverse glee, he quickly arranged to have all our lowly 1st-level characters arrested, stripped of our meager goods (right down to a loincloth), and locked into a labyrinthine system of caves. There our characters were left to die, assisted by a relentless and hun- gry minotaur. It was our wits against impos- sible odds. Somehow some of our characters survived.
That adventure was great and exciting. It made us think, be clever, use our skills, and truly role-play to find solutions. There was no doubt—this same situation would make a perfect final round for the tournament. What better test could there be to find the ultimate role-playing team? So, we had an ending, but no beginning. Somehow we had to bring the player characters to this point.
The AD&D Open Tournament required seven different rounds of play: five first rounds, a semi-final round, and a final round. We knew what happened in the final round and had a pretty good idea of what was needed in the semi-final (everyone gets captured). We needed the first rounds and we needed a story. For the story, we created the infamous slavers. They would provide the connecting thread and motivation for the characters. However, designing the first rounds was a much more difficult matter.
To be fair, every first round had to be bal- anced against the other first rounds. For the tournament to be fair, every team in every opening round had to face about the same amount of challenge. With three designers doing different rounds of the tournament, it was necessary to have careful discussions and plans for the tournament. First, each designer chose a low-level monster that would be the basis for his round: orcs in A1, hobgoblins in A2, and gnolls іп A3. Next we decided on the number and type of encount- ers that would occur: nine encounters to fit
the time limit of 32/2 hours. We guessed this would give a good team just enough time to get through every encounter. We also fig- ured that every encounter should be tough enough to kill one player character. With nine tournament characters, there could only be nine encounters.
We also set what would happen in each encounter. Thus we came up with the fol- lowing list:
2 Traps
1 Trick to fool the players
1 Problem the players had to solve
1 Encounter with the basic monster of the round (orcs, hobgoblins, gnolls, etc.)
1 Ambush prepared by the basic monster of the round
1 Encounter with the basic monster and a friend (an ogre, for example)
1 Encounter with an unintelligent monster
1 Encounter with a brand new monster
1 Grand Finale
Using this list, we each went to design our tournament rounds.
Even after this, our work was not yet done. Each round had to be carefully com- pared and playtested, Adjustments were made to bring the rounds into proper bal- ance, Many people helped, Tom Moldvay in particular, with his suggestions and assist- ance. Finally, the rounds had to be expanded into modules, adding details to fit the demands of campaign play.
Now, to link the Slave Lord series into The Temple of Elemental Evil, even more expansion has been done. What you have now combines the best of the A series mod- ules with new adventures in the WORLD OF GREYHAWK™ Game.
David Cook February 6, 1986
Introduction
From the boozy refuse of sea-front taverns to the war councils of murderous orcs, there is only one gang that can bind and com- mand them—the slave lords. At first they were only a vague whisper on the lips of a few barbaric scum, a whisper that grew to an icy chill of dread and despair—the slave lords! They are masters of vile cruelty and terror, And they are unnamed and unidenti- fied, hiding behind a veil of secrecy and deception!
The story of Scourge of the Slave Lordsis that of justice, and possibly revenge. For years the slave lords have carried out their particularly cruel trade on fishing villages and isolated farming communities. Their actions have been without remorse or pity. Now, it is time for their terror to end, per- haps at the hands of a few hearty adventur- ers. Players should begin the adventure with characters of fourth to sixth level, perhaps characters who have adventured and sur- vived through the dangers of The Temple of Elemental Evil. Characters of lower levels had best adventure in large groups (very large groups for extremely low levels!). Characters of higher levels can also be used, and the group sizes should be adjusted accordingly. Of course, there comes a point where a single character of very high level can deal with the entire adventure and not feel challenged, Such a character simply does not have a place in this adventure. Leave him home, tending the estate or minding the kingdom, if you please.
Getting Started
To play this adventure, it is necessary to have the Players Handbook, Dungeon Mas- ters Guide, and Monster Manual at least. It may also be useful to have a copy of Mon- ster Manual П as some of the creatures which appear herein are fully described in that volume. No provision is made for char- acter classes or creatures from other books (Unearthed Arcana or Oriental Adventures) but these certainly can be incorporated into any referees campaign as he desires and allows.
Since the adventure presented is quite large, it is unreasonable to demand or even ask that you, the referee, read or skim all the material before beginning play. You should become familiar with the organization and
parts of the module. Look also at the map booklet, identifying the various maps and when they are needed. Doing both of these will make it easier for you to quickly find information when you need it.
The module is divided into chapters. Each chapter is a separate stage of the adventure. On the average, you should be able to to play one chapter per game session. There- fore, to prepare as referee, you should read carefully the chapter you intend to play. It may also help to skim through the next chapter so you can see where events are sup- posed to lead.
Inserted in this book is a smaller booklet of maps. All maps used in the adventure can be found there. However, you may also wish to have the WORLD OF GREYHAWK™ Campaign Supplement, which provides the larger setting against which this adventure occurs.
Refereeing the Adventure
As a campaign adventure set in the World of Greyhawk, Scourge of the Slave Lords must rely on your skills and knowledge to succeed. You are the only person who knows the abilities and temperament of your players and their characters. You are the only person who can provide the rich- ness of background detail peculiar to your campaign. You are the only person on hand to make the on-the-spot judgements which invariably become necessary. You are an important part of this adventure. If you remember this fact and enjoy your role, this adventure will excite and challenge your players all the more.
An important factor of this adventure is motivation, Situations are created to galva- nize and energize the player characters. Your participation and judgement in this motivation is vital. Some situations in this adventure require your careful judgement. Terrible things will happen to the player characters and the players may become dis- couraged, enraged, or unduly upset by these events. This is where your skills are most important. You must work to maintain the spirits of your adventurers while retaining the desperateness of the situation. Properly done, they will have a strong desire to fight their way through and track the slave lords down to the end.
Scourge of the Slave Lords is designed for characters of 5th to 7th level. During the course of play characters are likely to earn enough experience points to rise one or more levels. The increase in levels may be necessary for some characters to survive the final sections of the adventure.
The slave lords themselves are a cunning and dangerous group. Not only are they powerful in levels and magic, they are also accustomed to working as team. They have worked together for many years and have become aware of each other's strengths and weaknesses. Time has allowed them to assemble a highly efficient organization. They make few mistakes, for mistakes are too costly in their business. They possess no pity or mercy. Although they can be extremely subtle, they also appreciate the effect of brute force and overwhelming might. Finally, they are indescribably cruel. Bear these factors in mind when refereeing the slave lords. This is not a module for bun- glers!
No opening background is given for this adventure for two reasons. First, it is assumed that this adventure begins shortly after the player characters have finished with The Temple of Elemental Evil. In this case, you will know the situation and condi- tion of your player characters best. If you are not using the WORLD OF GREYHAWK™ Fantasy Setting, you will have to create your own appropriate back- ground information, adjusting what is given here to fit your campaign.
Second, in the opening sections of the module, you should try to deceive the play- ers as to the true nature of the adventure. You want them to believe they are going to tackle something other than the slave lords, springing these villains and the problems they make as a surprise.
Information is normally presented in the module in one of two ways. Areas of boxed text are descriptive passages that should be read aloud to the players unless special cir- cumstances prevent their knowing the infor- mation given there. The information not boxed is material for the DM only, so that he can referee the encounter.
Chapter 1:
The Road to Highport
The Invitation
The winter snows are finally receding, Here, in Hommlet, crocuses crack through the crust of old snow. Pale pink and white blossoms push up at the bases of bare-branched trees. In the warm sun, sap creaks through the oaks and elms. Birds sing in the morning and the forlorn calls of owls fill the night.
Since your stay here, you have seen the villagers change. The braumeister and his nephew have proven fine com- panions over the winter nights, and you have tipped many a flagon in their fine company. Ostler the Innkeeper plays a fine game of draughts: indeed he's a bit of a sharper at it, having taken you a few clever wagers. That fine-looking spinster woman from the farm by the pond has paid a few calls. You've even managed to get a few civil words out of Black Jay and have enjoyed a good home meal at the homes of some of the folk. Ah, yes, it's beginning to feel like home.
As you stretch out on the bench before the inn to warm yourself in the sun, you spot a stranger striding down the lane. Ostler, leaning out his front door, nods in that direction and says, “Now, what d'ye make o' that, fair sirs? “Tis a man wrapped in the colors o' some laird, strolling through our Hommlet, bustlin' like he's driven on some grand business. Mayhaps 111 have me some laird's party stayin’ for the night" With a shrug he goes inside, calling to his family.
Looking closely, you can make out the glint of flaxen hair tumbling out from beneath the liveried cape. From the way this stranger moves, you'd safely guess him to be a her. Now, what business would a woman have in such a sleepy lit- tle village, a lord's woman at that?
Assuming a sleepy pose, you continue to watch the stranger through half- closed eyes. With a purposeful stride, she crosses the inn yard and passes your
bench, A mingled scent of perfume and horse sweat follows her. There are muf- fled voices inside.
Suddenly, she steps back out the door and tosses back the hood of her cloak. “Good sirs” she says with a graceful curtsy, “I bear a message from Most Wor- thy Dame Gold of Safeton.” She is, as you guessed, a young woman, endowed with a dignified and subdued beauty. She thrusts a heavy, buff envelope into your startled hands. “To The Saviors of Hom- mlet" is written across the front in a spi- dery hand. The back is closed with a large blob of wax pressed with a seal. She turns and walks away.
The invitation reads:
To those Brave and Worthy;
May it never be said that the coura- geous undertake valor for the hope of reward nor the righteous seek purity, and thus may aspersions of evil never fall upon thy name. But, as ye know too well, the rewards of virtue are painful and cold.
Our advisors, through wisdom and sagacity, have proclaimed thy actions good and virtuous, done for the wealth of the people of Hommlet. Those so noble as yourselves will grace and orna- ment the presence of any gathering. We beseech you to kindly honor us with your presence during the Feasts of Edoira at Windy Crag in the town of Safeton.
Dame Gold
The messenger, in the service of Dame gold, is the proud handler of a pegasus. The beast is currently waiting on the edge of the nearby woods. If requested she will take the characters’ reply. She is friendly and not secretive, and thus will answer general ques- tions about her mistress.
She does not care whether the player characters attend or not, but does give a glowing report on the previous balls given by her mistress. If the characters are suspi- cious and check up on The Most Worthy
Dame Gold, they learn that the invitation is genuine, If the characters still hesitate, you may wish to point out that many persons of influence usually attend such a feast. Char- acters with possible futures in politics (reli- gious, temporal, or guild) could well profit from such a gathering.
Possible methods to further sway the party include emphasizing the constant dullness of daily life in Hommlet or suggest- ing that some minor monetary benefit might be available should the trip be undertaken.
The Tinker
In no time at all it seems that everyone in town knowns of your message. Of course, trying to keep such an event secret in such a small town is almost impossible. The locals regard you with a curious interest, By the next morning, you are the objects of local curiosity. As you sit in the inn, a weather-beaten half- ling approaches you.
“Greetings to you all,” says the half- ling. "My name is Revv Aair The small form in a tidy leather smock pauses for a moment as if expecting recognition. “Ahem, oh well. It is said you are travel- ing toward the coast, to attend the feasts of Dame Gold. Don't look surprised, it is so hard to keep such secrets in a village this size. It is useful for a tinker to keep his ears open. But, about Dame Gold's party. I wish to bring some small samples of my work. You see, my family once worked for Dame Gold, and it was she that prevailed upon a local smith to take me as apprentice when I was in my ‘tweens...but the wagon and road is such that I hesitate to travel without escort.” He sighs. "Would you, could you travel with me? I set a fine table and am a will- ing cook. Gladly I would split the cost of all provisions for you.”
Revv Aair is just what he claims to be, a humble tinker with no thought of treachery or malice. His small wagon is laden with
copperwork for Dame Gold's household. Hanging from the sides are wineskins, a large cured ham, bags of apples, flour sacks, rings of salt, and pots of honey. Perched precariously atop everything are several cages of geese and hens. Two stout ponies pull the little wagon. Revv Aair has no intention of traveling alone on the road. 1f the characters refuse to accompany him, he will try again, after first fixing a sumptuous meal for them. By offering an example of his culinary skill, he hopes to convince them to come along. Furthermore, several of the most reliable villagers will provide good reports of the little halfling.
The Road
The season is late spring and the weather looks to be fine for traveling. The trip can be estimated to take five to six days by horse, or twice that for horse-drawn wagon. There are good roads between Hommlett and Safeton; the Kron Hills are always consid- ered safe, while the Gnarley Forest and Welkwood are generally free of trouble or bandits, The Wild Coast area is often fraught with danger, however, and it is this area that the halfling seems to be most wary of.
All encounter descriptions assume that the characters agreed to escort Revv Aair and his wagon to Dame Gold's manor. If they choose not to do so, adjust the encounters appropriately. Revv Aair brings along a helper, a young halfling, his nephew Bellod. If a fight develops, both do their best to avoid being placed in danger or harmed in any way. If possible, Revv Aair will attempt to save his wagon in the process. He will do little to help the party in combat (except what he might be able to accomplish through his wit). He is not disloyal or cow- ardly but, knowing there is little he can do, is not particularly brave, either.
Revv Aair; AC6; MV 9”; HD 1-1; hp 5' #AT 1;D 1-6; ALLG
Bellod: AC7; MV9*; HD 1-1; hp 4; #АТ 1; D 1-6; ALLG
The Con Men
Use this encounter while the player char- acters are traveling through the Kron Hills or that vicinity.
As you wind along the road, you spot a pair of men slogging along slowly in
your direction. They appear to be recent victims of an attack; scratched, bruised,
clothing slashed, and one sports a black eye. Glancing up as you approach, the closest feebly raises a hand in greeting, and seems anxious to speak.
The two men have just escaped a group of irate gnomes whom they successfully bilked out of a small amount of cash. Armed with cunning, insight, and nerve, these men make a living off unsuspecting passers-by who take them at their word. The two are average humans. If the characters stop and talk, the men keep their distance, ready to escape if necessary. They leave immediately if they observe spellcasting.
The two men attempt to convince the party that they are Highfolk nobility who have just been robbed of all their money and valuable possessions. Apparently quite panicked, they hint vaguely at an ambush down the road, mentioning magic and hid- eous events. They then ask for a small amount of generosity to tide them through the rest of their journey.
To all questions they will lie or tell half- truths: false names, false businesses, and false tales as necessary. They are clever enough to know when to tell the truth. If the player characters give them any money, they accept with overflowing gratitude and many promises to repay the loan at some future date, Then, they spin a fantastic tale of ambush just down the road. Central to their tale is a vivid description of a band of corrupt and evil gnomes who have come out of the hills and are ravaging the country- side. They hint that the behavior of these gnomes is odd, that they may be possessed. They persist in their begging until they are paid or it is obvious they will receive noth-
ing.
Later in the day, just before camp is made for the evening, a group of gnomes is sighted by the party; any number from 100 to 300 appear.
The crowd is quite angry and upset, armed with short swords and clubs. The gnomes at first think the party may be pro- tecting or hiding the con men. Coming upon the players, they surround the wagon (or camp). Give the characters an opportunity to panic and do something foolish before having the gnomes act.
After this, if the characters keep their wits, the gnomes explain angrily that they are looking for a pair of "sharpers and deceits" for the express purpose of "deliver- ing to them the justice they deserve" With these words the player characters notice
several of the gnomes holding ropes and
brushes, evidently for unsavory purposes. The gnomes have no interest in the player
characters, although if they learn later that
the characters deceived them, the gnomes
will be quite angry.
Con men: AC 10; МУ 12"; HD 1-1; hp 4, 3;
#AT 1; D 1-4; AL NE.
Gnomes: AC 5; MV 6; HD 1; #АТ 1; D 1-6; AL N.
Raiders!
This encounter occurs somewhere deep in the heart of the Welkwood/Gnarly Wood
area.
You have traveled for some time without incident, meeting only occasional trav- elers on the road. Since entering Welkwood, you have traveled under a vast canopy of leaves, enjoying the occa- sional pools of sunlight. Late in the day, the road passes along banks of a pond overlooked by a grassy meadow. It seems like a good place to camp.
Unfortunately for everyone concerned, a raiding party has also found the meadow and has deemed it a convenient place to wait out the daylight hours. They are sheltered from the party by a low, grassy ridge. If the player characters think to reconnoiter the area, they have no difficulty finding the raiders. They are just breaking camp, pre- paring to move by night. The player charac- ters can either retreat quietly (avoiding the encounter) or prepare an ambush.
For an ambush, the players must explain the positions and plans of their characters to you. Any balanced combination of caution and boldness should succeed. Stupid rash- ness and its converse, timidity, will not. Any ambush must do the following to work:
1. Achieve surprise.
2. Make the raiders fear they are being attacked by a powerful force.
3. Hurt the raiders visibly in the first wave of the attack.
If these goals are achieved, the raiders break and scatter. They have no desire to fight battles for no gain (and perhaps much loss)!
However, if the player characters make foolish mistakes in the ambush, the raiders stand and fight. These mistakes include charging into the middle of the camp, sur- rounding the camp (thus ending any hope of
escape), or generally revealing the weakness of the players' party.
If the player characters do not bother to check the area, the raiding party is discov- ered when Revv Aair comes rushing up from the pond without his water bucket. "An orc!" he screams hoarsely, "An orc! Gettin’ water just like I was!" Panicked, he runs through the camp, waving and point- ing back toward the pond. Across the pond you can hear grunting and shouting.
Use the Raiders! map in the map booklet. The raiders’ camp is to the north of the char- acters’, As soon as the alarm is raised, the troops begin moving through the woods to outflank the player characters. Fearing their raiding party has been discovered by sol- diers, the commander (Dergrenche) splits his force into five different groups. Each is ordered to a different position as indicated on the map. The number in parentheses is the number of rounds required for the group to get into position. As the units reach their positions, Dergrenche's strategy unfolds.
The goblins should reach their position first. As soon as they are in position, they begin firing arrows at the party. They are to pin the enemy down, preventing them from advancing or retreating.
The bugbears should be the second to reach their positions. They are ordered to remain hidden until Dergrenche gives two blasts on the war horn.
The orcs and ogrillons should be the last group in position. They are to attack when Dergrenche gives a single blast on the war horn.
Troops in bushes or woods gain +4 to their armor class due to cover gained through concealment. The sun is low in the west and the wall of trees around the meadow creates a great deal of shadow. Thus neither the goblins or the orcs suffer from exposure to bright sunlight.
Once he gives his orders, Dergrenche and his ettin bodyguard move carefully to a position where he can watch and command the battle. He will not risk himself unduly; he has ample troops available to fight for him.
Three rounds after giving his orders, he gives a single blast on his war horn. On the fifth round he gives two blasts, ordering the bugbears into action.
Unfortunately, battles do not always go as planned. Timing and morale are two fac- tors Dergrenche cannot always control.
The first time any group suffers a casu- alty, it must check morale. When half or more of the group has been slain, it must check morale. When three-fourths of the
group is slain, its morale automatically fails.
To make a morale check, roll 2d10 and add the results together. If this number is equal to or less than the morale rating of the group, the group is unaffected. If it is higher, the monsters break and run in panic.
The movements Dergrenche has planned may go wrong. When the first blast is sounded, roll 1d20 for each orc/ogrillon group. If the die roll is 9 or greater, the group attacks. If not, the group is not yet in position. Roll 1d6 to find the number of rounds that must pass before the group
arrives on the battlefield. Repeat the same procedure for the bugbears when they are signalled to attack.
In any event, Dergrenche seeks to keep his force intact and. calls for a retreat if things go badly. He prefers to lead from behind unless success is at hand.
If, during the course of the battle, any spell casters use fire-based spells, there is a chance that they may start a mildly damag- ing blaze in the forest. A fireball automati- cally starts a small fire which will burn for 20 to 30 minutes before sputtering out. Lightning bolts may do the same if they
RON удың WAL LAKEY UNDSHN
strike a tree or are cast low to the ground. If a fire does begin, it consumes several trees and scorches the meadow. The player char- acters can limit but not prevent the damage by dousing the blaze with water.
Four druids arrive within two hours of the start of any blaze. They march into the meadow and grimly survey the scene. Approaching the characters in peace, they firmly request details on what happened. If the player characters admit they started the fire, the druids firmly chastise them. Fortu- nately, circumstances weigh in the party's favor. However, the druids do insist the characters extinguish the remaining fires, bury the dead, and tidy up the area.
Dergrenche (half-orc)- AC 2; MV 12"; C4/ F9; hp 45; #AT 3/2; D 1d8 +3; SA Spells; AL LE.
Spells: command, cure light wounds (x2), hold person, silence 15” radius.
Dergrenche owns a longsword +1 and wears chain mail +1, Ina pouch at his belt he carries a potion of super-heroism and a potion of extra healing. In a life or death sit- uation, he may risk potion miscibility as a last option.
Dergrenche's bodyguard (4 ettins): AC 3; МУ 12% HD 10; hp 50; ҒАТ 2; D 2-16 /3-18; AL CE.
Attack Group 1 (24 goblins): AC 6; MV 6”; HD 1-1; hp 4 each; #AT 1; D 1-6 or 1-4; AL NE. Each is armed with a shortbow and dagger.
Attack Groups 2 & 3
(3 bugbears and 3 war dogs each)
Bugbears—AC 5; MV 9”; HD 3+1; hp 16 each; #AT 1; D 1-10; AL CE. Each is armed with a two-handed sword.
War dogs—AC 6; MV 12”; HD 2+2; hp 11 each; #AT 1; D 2-8; ALN.
Attack Groups 4 & 5
(3 ogrillons and 12 orcs each)
Ogrillons—AC 6; MV 12”; HD 2; hp 12, 10, 8; #AT 2; D 1-6*1 (x2); AL CE.
Orcs—AC 6; MV 9”; HD 1; #AT 1: D 1-6; AL LE. Each orc carries two spears. The first is thrown in a mass volley. The sec- ond is kept for close-in fighting.
If the raiders’ camp is taken and searched, a combined total of 1,750 gp in coins of vari- ous types (5,000 gp weight) can be found, along with a fair amount of iron rations, a few maps of the Wild Coast and environs, a giant sized sun-umbrella, and a small pam- phlet on battle tactics written in the com- mon tongue but published in Pomarj. Dergrenche also has six 50 gp gems (pearls)
and 100 gp hidden in his bedroll.
Once past this encounter, all things go smoothly on the road. In but a little time, Dame Gold's manor comes into view.
Welcome to Safeton:
Use No Magic Here!
So reads a sign on the outskirts of this small, walled town of 1,000 inhabitants. The watch seems active on the walls and towers surrounding the town, but the gate stands open. A sea breeze freshens the air with a sting of salt. There is an open friendliness about the town, mak- ing it seem a good and cheerful place to live.
As you enter the town, the guardsmen give a cursory inspection and charge you a silver piece to enter (a tax for the guilds of Safeton). A tough, bearded old fellow looks you over more carefully than the others. “There be law in this town town—good law made by good people, Remember that, boyos, and thou shalt profit from good advice. Mock my words and thou shalt see what a cold, wet gaol we can fix for thee. Aye, these whelps look troublesome to mine eyes.” These last words are spoken to the other guardsmen.
Safeton is a quiet and settled town. It has gained its name, and its reputation, from its emphasis on law and order within its walls. It generally harbors a wide variety of races and alignments, driving off only those races known for their bad blood (most half-ores and the like) and those individuals known by evil reputation. Thus, there is a higher- than-normal percentage of demi-humans in the town. Likewise, although there are few wholly evil people within the walls, there are many with shadowy and dubious repu- tations. Most of these folk are in transit between other points along the Wild Coast and the more civilized lands to the north.
The first time the player characters enter the town, they most likely are on their way to Dame Gold's manor. They have little dif- ficulty finding directions. The manor is sev- eral hours' travel down the coast.
Later events may require the player charac- ters to return to Safeton. Their welcome depends on how they act during this first visit.
Some typical reactions to character actions:
Investigate the Manor Raid: If the charac- ters have come to investigate, they can learn little of value from the people of Safeton. A few of the old-timers hazard a guess that it sounds like the work of pirates or slavers, but "not to worry, cause they don't come this far north.” If the player characters mention the purple sails, the old-timers instantly know this was the work of the slave lords. Naturally, they only speak of this powerful organization with great fear and awe.
Hire a Ship: It is quite likely that the player characters will want to hire a ship in Safeton. Thetown is a minor trading port, so this is not too difficult. Unfortunately, most are too slow for the player characters’ purpose, being ungainly scows, barges, or shallow water gal- leys. There is one other ship available, how- ever: the Ewe, captained by Jurgen Wolffe. It is a fast, ocean-going ship that can be char- tered for five to ten times the normal rate (whatever that may be in your campaign), or 200 gp a day. The captain demands full pay- ment in advance to cover the expected dura- tion of the voyage (at least one month). The price includes all lading, provisions, and dock costs, Outfitting: If the characters would like to outfit themselves for an overland trek, many of the shopkeepers shake their heads doubt- fully but gladly sell them goods at 10 to 30 per- cent over normal prices. If they hear of the destination, a few of the more charitable shop- keepers urge the player characters to abandon their plans and save their money, for their journey can only come to disaster.
While the player characters are in Safeton, they encounter the Mad One several times. For a description of his activities, see The Spy of Safeton.
The Feast at Dame Gold's
When you reach the manor, servants meet you at the entrance to take your horses. In the doorway appears the Most Worthy Dame Gold herself! She is a tall woman of middling age, well dressed. As she speaks to you, it is easy to see that she is a gracious
lady.
"Why, greetings, wayfarers! Welcome to my hearth and home. Most guests will not arrive for another day, but some have come before you. Гат Dame Gold, and I welcome you warmly to Windy Crag. Would you be weary of road and riding,
|
and wish a hot bath? Of course!" She claps her hands and more servants appear. "You heroes have two rooms among you—Windy Crag will be
crowded this week—these servants can show you the way. Be well!" Dame Gold then turns and bustles away, busy with preparations.
The feast of Edoira is a week-long event. Many things could (and may) happen dur- ing this time. Key personalities are listed below. After this are given the major events of the feast. Of course, you may alter per- sonalities and events to fit the atmosphere of your campaign.
The sections below provide the basis of a different type of roleplaying experience. All that is required is a knack for role-playing, a willingness to spend one or two hours with- out combat, and a small bit of paperwork on your part. Before the party starts, jot down the name of an NPC guest, the type of interaction, and the player character you wish to involve. Try to have one interaction for each of the characters in the party. If you have players who seldom become involved in the game, now is a good time to draw them out.
As the feast progresses, use the activities listed under Daily Events, Allow each char- acter to pursue his particular interest, using the Daily Events as background and scen- ery. Play out any scenes that develop into interesting situations but avoid going into too much detail unless your group enjoys lengthy role-playing sessions. The purpose of this party is to create ties between charac- ters and guests and hence provide motiva- tion for their future adventures.
Toward the end of the feast, begin the Mission scenario, involving as many player characters as possible. You want the player characters to accept this task so they will be unprepared for later events.
The Servants
Aefird: Chamberlain
Alexander Wolffson: Herald
Duroc & David: Pageboys
Jayl of the Gnarley: Bard
Кае; Chief Cook
Shane and Meara Bannan, Ludwig, Amelia, and Wolfgang: Household Servants
Ernst Carpenter: Master of the Stables
Christopher of the Wood: Forester
Wilheim and Wilheimsson (his son): Gar-
deners
Maida, Natale, Yvonne: Scullery Maids
Vinzio, Laramas, and Terrence: Grooms Cup: Spitboy
In addition to these servants, Dame Gold is making use of a large number of serfs to accomodate her guests. These serfs know nothing of import and must generally be carefully instructed.
The Guests (A Partial List)
Listed here are the principal guests attend- ing the feast for the entire seven days. On the day of the grand ball, more guests arrive but remain only for the night. These addi- tional guests, like those listed here, are quite famous people—lords and ladies, political figures, religious leaders, and powerful mystics. You may wish to include famous or noteworthy figures from your own cam- paign (perhaps a retired player character or two).
In addition to his name, each guest listing includes a short description. No statistics are given for these guests, since characters are not expected to attack or otherwise molest these people. If statistics are needed, then guests of a stated class (magic user, pal- adin, etc.) are 2-8 levels above name level. Guests not of a stated class (alchemist, mer- chant) are either retired adventurers with 1- 4 levels or normal humans and demi-humans. All possess knowledge appropriate to their position, and have at least a polite interest in the player charac- ters.
Most of the guests present are extraordi- nary in at least one attribute, usually appli- cable to their specialty or class.
Bernaldo Bravos: A famous but aged pal- adin.
Hammish of Drone: A sage, specializing in ancient lore, given to pessimistic mus- ings. “Burly” Katrina: A rough-speaking but nobly born fighter of great repute and local importance, all the more unique since she looks like a quite matronly woman.
Randalison the Neat: A thin man, evi- dently a magicuser, prone to the nervous consumption of sweets.
Thaddeus: A person with a dangerous reputation as a thief, never proven. Invited for his charm and wit.
His Excellency, Derish of Safeton: High Cleric of Safeton, somewhat parochial and tural in outlook,
Bruthas Badennson: A merchant of some repute.
Black Kerr: An alchemist from the south-
ern lands renowned for her experiments, but notoriously eccentric. Aside from the fact that she rarely speaks, dresses only in black and red, and continually gathers bizarre ingredients, her habit of conversing with unseen speakers (plainly heard by all around her) is quite unsettling. She has little use for the clergy and can sometimes be found in heated arguments with His Excel- lency, Derish of Safeton or Jack of the Light.
Jack Knob: A dwarf who specializes in locks and safeboxes for the rich.
Arianrhod de Turiss: A person of noble blood, quite pretty and charming. Invited not only for her own charms, but also because her father is an influential baron of the Wild Coast.
Ko: A monk of high rank and influence. The more gossipy guests of the feast are abuzz with speculation as to how Dame Gold managed this coup, as monks usually shun parties and frivolous socializing.
Joseph of the Light: A self-proclaimed prophet who has recently appeared out of the wilds of the Pomarj. He is earnest in his mission, considering those who mock him to be deluded and trapped by evil powers. He has a reputation as one touched by the gods, able to work wonders beyond those of the clerical cloth. He arrived uninvited, claiming to have been called to this place, Dame Gold allowed him to remain out of curiosity, reverence, and fear.
Mitgan: An artist of wide repute. Dame Gold is currently his patron. He has done many works for her in stone, metal, and wood. The main hall of the manor is deco- rated with frescoes he painted.
Most of the listed guests have one or more retainers who attend to them and are ready to protect them if need be.
Suggested Interactions
As the week passes, the characters (assuming they wish to enjoy themselves) can meet most of the other guests. Most of these interactions are quite ordinary, even boring. Below are some suggestions for events that may occur during the course of the feast. Note that none of these directly involve violence or battle. Instead, they require players to deal with social situations requiring sensitivity and wit. Again, you can expand and tailor these events to your specific campaign as desired.
Romance: If you use this event, decide which player character and NPC will. be involved. At first, the NPC does no more than pay watchful attention to the actions of the player character. As each day goes by
the NPC makes greater efforts to be in the company of the player character, perhaps asking to dance or walk together. Other guests notice this affection, commenting on it between themselves, Remember that the NPC involved is a complete character and hasa full range of emotions. Thus, he or she may become depressed, angry, jealous, vengeful, etc., if his advances are mocked, shghted, or betrayed. Player characters should react to the situation just as they would in real life.
Conflict: In a converse to romance, some NPC's may take a strong dislike to a charac- ter. The NPC does not need a good reason. Of course, characters who make slighting comments within hearing will surely incur the wrath of the NPC. Reactions can vary with the position and temperament of the NPC. Some engage in petty backbiting and cruel gossip. Others do everything possible to socially humiliate or discredit the player character, making him a laughing stock. At the extreme, the situation may come to blows. The NPC may demand the satisfac- tion of a duel if he can show he has been insulted. A few will become truly vicious, engaging in long-term efforts to destroy the reputation and career of the player charac- ter. Such moves are subtle and may take months to develop. A word dropped here that the character is untrustworthy, a scan- dalous lie circulated about his moral charac- ter, a few favors used to prevent the character from getting a good contract, etc. Once an NPC dislikes a character, there is little that can be done to change the situa- tion.
Jealousy: Jealousy sometimes accompa- nies romance, particularly if the NPC in love is particularly charming and enchant- ing. Other suitors, real or fancied, are likely to take offense. Of course, the jealous NPC will have a strong and active dislike for the character.
Friendship: Avoiding the extremes of love, characters should find it useful to cre- ate simple friendships. Friendships (so often ignored by player characters) can be both pleasant and useful—giving the character contacts, resources, and leads from time to time, Of course, true friends do not use each other callously. The feelings of a friend should always be considered.
Financial Interest: A character may find an investment opportunity through a guest. Property, a magical item, a share in a busi- ness, etc., may be offered to the character. Remember that the person making the offer is a businessman, also. Nothing is gained for free and there is no such thing as a great
deal, The NPC will always seek the best terms for himself. This is not greed or venal- ity, this is business, Furthermore, the scheme may be honest or dishonest at your choice.
Information: At an event such as this, gossip and news are two things guaranteed to be topics of conversation. As referee, you can use the feast as an opportunity to intro- duce information. Perhaps an NPC talks about a grave injustice perpetrated in the land, or rumors of some fabulous terror in his homeland. Storytelling is a popular entertainment and many facts can be gleaned from these stories. Examine events in your campaign and introduce tidbits you think would tweak the interest of your player characters.
The Feast of Edoira
The feast of Edoira is a week-long affair, celebrating a religious unifier of ancient times. Edoira is supposed to have achieved the unification of several religions, such that those of good alignment can now generally work and live in harmony. He is honored and revered by many temples and churches, although the exact practices celebrating his achievements vary. Dame Gold has chosen to honor him by holding an elaborate series of banquets and entertainments. In this case, the feast of Edoira is less a religious event and more an excuse for a holiday.
The following list gives the activities scheduled for the feast.
Day One
In the morning, His Excellency, Derish of Safeton holds service to invoke the blessing of Edoira upon the assembly. The service, which is quite solemn, lasts four hours. After this guests retire for the afternoon to engage in private services, each according to his religion. In the evening, there is dancing followed by a grand banquet.
Day Two
In the morning, Mitgan appears before the court to present his latest commission, a statue of Edoira for the Temple of Safeton. Before dinner, the bard begins an epic poem which will last several nights. This is fol- lowed by a small banquet. After the meal, a moon-rise party is organized by Ran- dallson, while Katrina and Jack Knob engage in a boisterous drinking contest.
Day Three
Dame Gold has organized an
10
extravaganza—a mock sea battle in Safeton harbor. The guests watch from barges as galleys ram each other and spells flash through the sky. There is much cheering and some betting. A meal of exotic seafood is served on the barges while the guests watch the sunset. Returning to the manor house, the bard continues his tale while the guests
Day Four
A morning service of prayers is held by His Excellency. Bernaldo Bravos spends the morning teaching other guests a foreign entertainment he learned, using something he calls a deck of cards. There is no betting. The noontime meal is taken under the shade trees of the garden and a troupe of traveling acrobats provides entertainment. The after- noon is spent in private activities. In the evening, another dance is held, to allow everyone ample practice for the Grand Feast.
Day Five
Thaddeus arranges a morning of simple games (hide-and-seek, etc.) in the garden, mostly attended by the younger guests. The event is quite successful, especially for those romantically inclined. The elders sit in the chapel and listen to a stern discourse on the follies of life from Joseph of the Light. That evening just before dinner, he enters the main hall and announces a vision. In thun- derous terms he proclaims that righteous wrath shall descend upon the foolish and weak present. For the rest of the week he broods over the assembly, scowling and uttering short declarations of doom. He quite ruins the mood for the evening. Still, after dinner, there is a full moon rising early, all very romantic.
Day Six
There is a bustling, quick breakfast —the cooks are too busy readying the night's coming feast to putter around with compli- cated morning dishes. Lunch is much the same, with many guests arriving. A small city of gaily colored tents grows outside the manor house.
The afternoon is spent in devout services celebrating the height of the feast. His Excel- lency, Derish of Safeton leads the service, dressed in his finest robes, Across from the chapel, Joseph of the Light harangues onlookers to forswear their foolish and wicked ways. He offers them the chance to achieve redemption. He is quite serious and
bas mi s eee 2 2. СН е АЫ
very compelling. Again, a feeling of unease settles about the feasters.
That night the grand feast is served out- doors. It is a lavish affair—spitted oxen and boar, pies of stewed eels, squabs baked in clay, roasted pumpkins stuffed with onions and sausage, honey-soaked sweetmeats, stews of fresh and dried fish and fruits. The feast lasts well into the night.
Day Seven
The guests now begin to depart. Begin the Disaster, Alas, Disaster! scenario,
The Mission
Late in the evening, after most of the other guests have retired, the Most Wor- thy Dame Gold comes to your table. "May I sit with you?" she wearily asks. Certainly having more manners than to so blatantly offend your hostess, you assent. Gratefully she sits, obviously drained by the effort of coordinating the household.
After a restful silence, she turns to you. "Brave adventurers, perhaps you wonder what prompted your invitation. You seem unused to these functions and I would not do my duty as a hostess if I did not explain. All that was said in your invitation was true. I do deem it wise and just to reward the valiant and true. Often I have invited those worthy to my manor.
"But this time, I am ashamed to admit, I have another motive. I have need of brave souls such as yours. If you would hear me, then come to my chambers just afore dawn. Now, you must excuse me, my other guests need attending."
lf the player characters do not meet with Dame Gold, she says no more of the matter. However, perceptive characters will notice that from that point on she views your party with a hidden, resigned sorrow. Her treat- ment is no less cordial, but a gloom slowly settles upon her.
If one or more characters meet with Dame Gold, they find her awake and dressed, pac- ing the sitting room of her chambers. She heaves a great sigh of relief when the charac- ters arrive. She then turns to the holiest or most trustworthy of the group (a cleric or paladin) and demands of him an oath sworn before his god. This is no light matter, for an oath to a person of faith is utterly binding. Her oath, demanded of all who are present,
is ^...that you shall not speak to any soul, write down in any ledger or journal, or in any form communicate to any other creature these things I shall say unto you. This you shall swear before your most holy god” Unless all present so swear, she will not proceed.
She then tells the characters the story of her brother, once lord of this manor. Many years ago he dropped from sight and was presumed dead by all who knew him. He had always been a wild and adventurous man, given to dark studies and feats of derring-do. Thus, when he failed to return from a voyage to Hepmonaland, all agreed he had met his death in those dark, fearsome jungles. Accordingly, all lands and title passed into her hands. So it has been for many years.
Now she has received communication from her brother, much to her joy. This occurred many months ago, and she has painstakingly confirmed his identity through all available resources. There is no doubt it is him, that һе is alive and wishes to return home. But, he is ill, gravely so. Her agents learned he has contracted a horrible affliction, not unlike lycanthropy. Slowly and gradually it seizes his mind, stealing his senses away until he changes, becoming dangerous and raving. Each fit is longer and more violent, and eventually he will be totally lost. There is little time left. Her advisors have discovered a formula of great rarity which they believe will cure her brother. Its compounds are mixed іп a deli- cate magical balance, allowing it to remain potent for only 40 days.
Alas, the speediest methods of delivery cannot be used—the energies of a teleport spell may disrupt the balance. There is only one vial of this formula to be had. In a few days, indeed just at the end of the feast, her friend Black Kerr will be finished with the distillation.
Carefully, she sketches out where her brother may be found—in a small village on the coast of Hepmonaland (in hex J2-112). If the characters accept this task, she gladly pay them each 5,000 gp upon their return. She possesses no sea vessel capable of such a trip, so the characters will have to hire one. If they bring the contract to her upon their return, she will gladly reimburse them their expenses.
Just before departing the feast, Dame Gold has a second meeting with the charac- ters to give them the potion, It is in a small lead bottle, tightly stopped and sealed with wire and wax. She explains carefully that the formula is very sensitive. The lead bottle should protect it from most magical ener-
11
gies, but powerful spells (teleport and the like) may leak through the protection, dam- aging the potion. No one knows the effect of this, but no one wants to take the chance. From this day, the player characters have 40 days to deliver the potion, and not one day more. The time limit of 40 days is absolute.
As referee, you know that the heart of this adventure is not to deliver this potion to Dame Gold's brother. However, it adds greatly to the game if the player characters believe this. You want them to feel they are under time pressure, especially that they are running out of time.
Alas, Disaster, Alas!
Before the party has left the area of Safe- ton, a mounted figure is seen on the road to the rear. At a tired gallop approaches one of Dame Gold's servants, gesturing frantically. Suddenly the horse falters and falls, pitching the rider to the ground. Scrambling to his feet, he begins sprinting toward the party, gasping out cries for help. You realize it is the spitboy from the manor.
"Sirs! Sirs! Disaster, oh alas! Disaster! Me mistress, me workmates, all gone, all gone! Taken! Burned! Ме beautiful house, pulled down...disaster, sirs, disas- ter!" Stumbling into your group, he gasps for breath and continues. "Men came...in ships...they came in ships. Burned every- thing...stole...disaster, alas oh!"
The spitboy, though saddlesore, sweat- soaked, and bruised, is uninjured. Calming him, the characters quickly glean that raid- ers landed on the beach and sacked Windy Crag, taking prisoners with them as they departed. Dame Gold and many of the guests were among them. The spitboy man- aged to escape by taking to a horse immedi- ately, and has been riding at full gallop ever since. His horse, improperly ridden and cooled down, has collapsed and died.
The characters now face a decision: to retum to Windy Crag and search out the identity of the raiders, or to continue on their way, carrying out the mission Dame Gold gave them. There is no obvious heroic choice here. Both deeds are valiant and important. Those of lawful good alignment will be sullied if they ignore either task and can only act within their alignment by doing both—returning to investigate and then continuing in their mission. However, do not force players to make this decision. It is a problem for them to solve. Simply note
their choice. The following consequences should be assessed for the different choices:
Return to Investigate: No consequence.
Continue With the Mission: Good player characters sleep uneasily from this point on. Lawful good characters are troubled by dreams accusing them of evil. They suffer a -1 penalty on all saving throws and "to hit" rolls. This can be removed by doing pen- ance prescribed by the character's religion. Lawful good clerics are denied spells above 2d level until a quest is undertaken. Pala- dins are unable to exercise any of their spe- cial abilities (detect evil, heal, or spells) until a quest is undertaken. Characters cannot abuse their alignments lightly!
Return to the Manor
The manor where you so recently stayed is now a blackened ruin. The stone walls stand, though badly cracked by the rag- ing fire. Tendrils of smoke drift upward from still smouldering piles of coals. The
roof is collapsed and the building is little more than a hollow shell. You are horri- fied to see a few bodies scattered about carelessly, as if they were a giant boy's forgotten toys.
The dead are those few who resisted the onslaught; here and there one grips a blood- stained sword or spear. The player charac- ters may be able to identify some of the guests (you should decide who these are). No bodies of any enemies are found easily. If the burned house is examined, a body, obviously a raider, can be found pinned beneath a fallen beam. A charred sack of loot is nearby. Thus perished the evil soul, by the cupidity of his own greed. The corpse is that of a common sailor. He bears a tattoo on his right forearm—a brilliantly colored blue and orange fish, Close to his breast is a small journal. Some of the book has been burned, but a few pages remain. The pages that remain are as follows:
A date ten days previous reading "lv. pt. good wynds" A date five days previous with an entry reading "water at Alrad, must stay abd.”
Today's date with an entry reading “rd. tewday, cpt. say fyve day tew water, fyve day tew port. Say few swords.”
The three entries in the journal properly read:
"Leave port, good winds.”
“Water at Elredd, must stay aboard.”
"Raid today, Captain says five days to water, five days to port. Says there are few
swords,’
The player characters must puzzle these meanings out on their own, The journal notes the movement of the sailor's ship from Highport to Elredd to Safeton. The last entry describes the return route—back to Elredd and then Highport. If the player characters ask about Alrad, you can either let them puzzle it out for themselves or have one of the characters remember the name Elredd as a town on the coast. It is recom- mended that you only use the first choice if the player characters have a map of the area they can consult or have previously been to Elredd. It is unfair to expect them to realize the link to a place they have no knowledge of.
Elredd is 270 miles distant from Safeton by land and 210 miles distant by sea. A voy- age by ship is faster and shorter than an overland trek. If the player characters travel by land, they arrive in Elredd after the raid- ers leave. Traveling by ship allows them to arrive in time.
The servant, by this time, is beginning to come out of his shock; if interrogated fur- ther, he can reveal that two ships partici- pated in the raid, "a big ship and a little ship with purple sails" As concerns numbers of men, he is equally vague, “many” and "lots" being his most descriptive terms, Now, with the manor destroyed, all he wants is to go home to is native village but a few miles away.
The players may also be able to deduce that Highport is the home port of the raid- ers, either by lucky guess or deduction. In this case, they can attempt to sail directly to Highport, skipping Elredd.
The Spy of Safeton
The slavers of the Pomarj keep a careful eye on the towns of the Wild Coast, main- taining a network of spies and informers. Safeton and the surrounding area (including Dame Gold's manor) is under the watch of a renegade elf generally known as "the Mad One.” Although he affects a gib- bering madness to move about unmolested, collecting gossip and information, he is truly mad, though not in ways he pretends, He is maniacal and obsessive, given to hal- lucinations both audible and visual. He believes himself part of a greater, more cos- mic scheme. The populace regards him with feelings of dread and pity. He dresses well, but speaks common exclusively (and with comical accent). He intentionally makes his conversations decidedly nonsensical, feel- ing this is an important part of his cover.
When playing him in an encounter, simply say the first thing that comes into your head. He keeps his hair well-groomed and trimmed; he is obsessive about his appear- ance.
While the party is in Safeton, the Mad One makes a point of accosting a character at random, spouting poetry, limericks, and random nouns while employing an amulet of ESP (or the psionic discipline ESP, if you desire). His gibberish includes key words such as "pirate, "ocean, "master," and "fire" With luck, these will elicit surface thoughts in the character relating to the slavers.
The Mad One is a careful agent, carrying no magic on his person. His main aim is to survive and to investigate; he holds the information he gathers until his contact (a traveling peddler) arrives at the end of each week. Any information gleaned by the Mad One is not acted on for at least two weeks. However, take note of what he learns, since it may aid the actions of the various slave lords in future encounters.
In the unlikely event the Mad One is detected, captured, and interrogated, he is quite willing to exchange his life for infor- mation. Although he reveals what he knows, it is no more comprehensible than his normal conversation. Furthermore, his statements are filled with hyperbolic clues about the importance of his duties, his place in the scheme of things, and the import of future and past events.
If the characters decide to take ship from Safeton to Elredd, the Mad One slips an agent into the crew of the vessel and com- municates the information southwards. If the characters opt to travel overland, the Mad One tries to identify their likely route to enable an interception by other agents of the slavers.
The Mad One: AC 9; MV 12"; MU 4/T 6; hp 18; #AT 1; D 1-4; SA spells, psionics (opt.); thief abilities; AL CN
The Road to Elredd
The road to Elredd is for the most part a coast road that links the various fishing vil- lages and hamlets that line the coast. A shortcut is possible at one point where a stretch of the road cuts through the south- ernmost portion of the Welkwood. Rumor calls this road chancy at best, downright deadly at worst.
For the trek south to Elredd, brief encounters are listed. These do not relate to the main story of the adventure. These encounters can be used in whatever order
you feel is best and not all of them need be used. The trip south should be an arduous one, and it is unlikely that it can be com- pleted on horse or on foot in five days.
Road Encounters
The Thief in the Hamlet: A brave but inexperienced thief tries to pilfer some small change from one of the characters in the dead of night.
Thief; AC 7; MV 12^; ТЗ; hp 12; AAT 1; D 1-8; PP 40%, MS 27%, HS 20%: dagger TI
Roving Orc War-Band: This encounter occurs at night, as the player characters camp alongside the road. In the dark the player characters notice five orcs moving cautiously down the road. They are the advance scouts for a raiding party moving
orcs. The player characters can hide from the scouts or attack them. if the scouts are attacked, they try to assess the strength of the opposition and then flee. If any escape, they warn the advancing column. If undue noise is made in the fight, the column hears it and is warned. If the orcs are defeated qui- etly, the column continues its march unaware.
If the column is warned, the orcs divide
its march along the road and does not inves- tigate the woods to either side. In this case, the advance of the column can be easily etected.
rcs: AC 6; MV 9”; HD 1; #AT 1; D 1-8 or 1-6
Burned Hamlet: Just off the road is a mall village, burned to the ground. Investi- ation reveals the skeletons of several umans and orcs. Evidence points to the fire ving happened some weeks ago. There is o sign of any survivors.
Companions!: The party meets a group of hree travelers along the road. They are Ruvik, a dwarf; Targil the Red, a uman; and Bornthien, a halfling.
They tell a tale of being retired adventur-
who lived in a nearby hamlet. Too much f the quiet life, they say, led them into lax- ess. Raiders struck, sacked and burned the illage, then retreated, taking many vil- agers with them. Their abilities and good
fortune saved them from that fate, but alas, members of their families were taken cap- tive. Now they seek revenge, and are travel- ing south to investigate rumors of a slaver headquarters there.
In truth, two of the trio, Agnar and Targil, are willing slaver agents, ordered to watch the road heading south. However, Bornthien of the Hoetoe family was a simple farmer until he and his family were captured by slavers during a raid last year. Threat- ened with the death of his entire family unless he cooperates, Bornthien has worked for the slavers ever since, providing them with a legitimate front and contacts in the area. He was told that he would be scried upon at random intervals, and thus has obeyed orders to the letter, The evil he is forced into is beginning to make him despair and lose hope.
The three have been stationed by the slave lords in this area as part of their spy network. They receive reports from the Mad One of Safeton and pass information along to contacts in Elredd. They make а point of meeting travelers on the road, ques- tioning them and sometimes feeding them false information. If the characters some- how avoided detection in Safeton, the trio do not have specific information about the party. Thus, they do not consider them a great threat. They present their standard story of being local travelers, going in what- ever direction the player characters are trav- eling. They ask questions and generally remain sociable. If they learn the intentions of the player characters or can reasonably deduce them, they feed the characters a story about how their own families were taken by raiders. Although they do not sug- gest it, they will gladly accompany the player characters if invited.
If Bornthien learns of the player charac- ter's plans, he finally sees an opportunity to rebel against his captors. He makes every effort possible to secretly talk to the player characters or slip them a message, telling them of his plight. He reveals the intentions of their traveling companions, but asks that the player characters take no action imme- diately. He does not want his role as inform- ant discovered. If the player characters promise to free his family, he will try to arrange aid for them in the days ahead. There are those within the slave lords' net- work who may be willing to aid the player characters.
If the player characters attack, Agnar and Targil fight to the best of their ability, but retreat when necessary. lt is more important that they report their information than
13
defeat the player characters.
Agnar Ock: AC 0; MV 6%; F10; hp 97; #AT 2/1; D 2-8*8; ALLE; ST 18:29, 19, W 8, D 10, Co 18, Ch 7
Equipment: plate mail +1, shield +1, broadsword +2 (double specialization), Keoghtom’s ointment (2 uses).
Agnar is not an overly clever fellow, rely- ing on his animal instincts to see him through most situations. He has a natural savagery that comes to fore in combat, see- ing him through many deadly encounters. In other situations, he lets Targil do the thinking.
Targil the Red: AC 1; MV 12^; T8; hp 36; FAT 1; D 1-6 or 1-4; AL М; PP 75%, MS 65%, HS 53%, Backstab x3; S 14, 1 17, W 8, D 18, Co 15, Ch 13
Equipment: wand of magic missiles (144 charges), dagger +2, bracers of defense АС 5, short sword.
Targil often poses as a magic-user, wear- ing robes and carrying a wand-sized stick. He is a political radical of sorts, working for the slavers since they are hastening the col- lapse of the current rulers of the area.
Bornthien: AC 2; MV6 ; HD2; hp8; #АТ 1; D 1-6; ALLG; S 15, 1 14, W 18, D 16, Co 15, Ch 16
Rangersi
You are plodding through the cool morn- ing fog, hoping to make good time before the sun burns away the mist and begins another boiling, humid day. Sud- denly, out of the misty brush, come silent
shadows, tall figures armed with bows and spears! Half swallowed in the fog, they line the road to either side. As you move forward, arrows are nocked and spears drawn back.
The player characters face a band of eight suspicious rangers. Recently the area has been overrun several] times by bands of humanoids, so much so that these watchful rangers have gathered in these woods. Here they aid those they consider good and do what harm they can to the evil creatures.
They are not sure of the party's allegiance and so will not approach them. Instead, after announcing their presence, they with- draw and trail the party, always keeping the characters under careful scrutiny. They do not volunteer conversation,
If the player characters approach them, the rangers will converse. They say little or next to nothing, remaining silent and
moody. They are painfully grim and moody, Unless the characters react with vio- lence, the rangers eventually melt away into the woods. However, there will always be one nearby, observing the player charac- ters.
The presence of the rangers provokes a reaction from the trio of traveling compan- ions, if they are present. Targil the Red, upon first meeting the rangers, is shocked, but instantly conceals it. Anyone close to him may catch a vicious oath muttered under his breath. After this, he reacts along the same lines as the player characters, hav- ing regained his composure. Agnar Ruvik lets a fleeting grimace cross his face. For the rest of the encounter, he nervously fingers his weapons and says nothing, never taking his eyes from the rangers. The halfling goes tense and starts sweating visibly. Part of him seems drawn to the rangers and another part repelled. He glances at Targil and Agnar fearfully.
Rangers: AC 6; MV 12”; RS through 12; hp 24, 36, 37, 40, 41, 45, 51, 55; #АТ 1 or 3/ 2 (9th level & above); D 1-8+1; SA Track, surprise 1-3, spells (8th level & above); AL CG There is one ranger of every level from Sth to 12th. Those of 8th level and above know clerical spells chosen by the DM. All carry longswords +1, spears +1, and bows #1,
The Voyage to Elredd
This section details the adventures found by characters who opt to travel to Elredd by sea.
Woolly Bay is known for its pirates who plunder the weak or unwary, Some sea beasts roam the waves, but the coastal waters are relatively shallow, discouraging the most vicious creatures of the cold depths. These hazards generally keep sea voyages exciting.
Spring Gale
On the second day out of Safeton, the captain finds you in your cabin. Throughout the day the waves have been growing and the little ship is being tossed. “Now look, lads" he says. “I
know ye signed on as passengers, but me little Ewe ain't so big as Ї can forget yer hands come the wind an' high water. Let me show ye the pumps, just in case I has to use ye, hmm?"
The captain shows the characters the “pump,” actually a pile of buckets, Conde- scendingly to these landlubbers, he demon- strates the technique of bailing, then leaves the characters as the wind begins to build.
Although Wolffe is a cautious Fellow, the Ewe is in no danger from this little storm. Wolffe is just exercising his wicked sense of humor, playing a little fun for his passen- gers. Bringing the Ewe about, he intention- ally brings it into rough seas. He rolls the ship a little more than necessary, allows waves to wash over the deck, and shouts fearful commands to his crew, who enjoy the show as much as him...with one excep- tion, the new hand, the slave lords" spy. He doesn't know about Wolf's peculiar sense of humor and becomes quite concerned.
Wolffe checks in from time to time to see how the characters are doing; he orders characters who come above decks without a bucket to return to the bilges, warning that the ship might go down at any moment. If the characters run out of water to bail, Wolffe thoughtfully takes water aboard so they'll have something to do.
On deck, the storm is wearying for a landlubber. Characters must roll a saving throw vs. breath weapon, including Consti- tution bonus, to avoid seasickness. Seasick characters are at one-half Constitution for 1-6 hours after the storm subsides. The storm lasts but 30-40 minutes.
After the storm, Wolffe checks on his pas- sengers, to amuse himself over their agonies and see that no sericus harm was done. He mentions that the new hand, who "signed up extra eager for this trip,” seemed to be a little less experienced at sea than he had pro- fessed in port. He also mentions that the storm and general good weather have sped them on their way. They'll be arriving early in Elredd, This likely means that the player characters will arrive in Elredd before the raiders leave.
The End of the Road
The end of a long and difficult journey stands before the characters—Elredd.
Overland Arrival: The road twists through some badly managed fields to the gate of Elredd, which stands wide open. A few guardsmen lounge around, not particu- larly concerned about who enters or leaves. Inside, the town has all the charm of an impoverished trading center. Wandering through the streets, it is clear the burgher- meisters are not too selective about their image. Half-orcs mingle freely with humans, drunkards roam the streets and the
14
city guard is none too visible. A powerful odor of salt and old fish blows up from the docks.
If the characters traveled with Targil and his friends, they learned some information that may be useful now. Targil advised the player characters to take great caution in Elredd. According to his information, the town is almost completely under the control of the slave lords. The upper levels of gov- ernment are dominated by their agents. Fur- thermore, the majority of the town inhabitants make their living directly or indirectly from the slave lords' activities.
He suggests the characters make their way to the Broken Rudder, an inn near the waterfront. He warns them the inn is in a wretched section of the town and is itself equally wretched. But there they should be beneath the notice of the slave lords' agents. Indeed, they may find friends and allies there with motives not much different from their own. Targil and company explain they cannot stay in Elredd any length of time themselves. Their faces are known, and they have many enemies there. Shortly after arriving, they separate from the party, wish- ing them the best of luck.
Seaborne Arrival: The port of Elredd is a dank and reeking place. Garbage and dead fish float on the surface of the still harbor. A few broken-down cogs lumber at anchor. A battered fleet of fishing smacks are lashed to moorings. Ramshackle buildings lean pre- cipitously over the stone quay.
Captain Wolffe bids the party farewell, dropping a few words of caution about Elredd. "Tis a wicked place, 1 tell ye, Aye, а leaking bilge o' rat-water or me Ewe's nae the swiftest o' this coast."
For all its decay, the port bustles with activity. But as the Ewe maneuvers up next to a dock for unlading, no purple sail can be seen. A crowd of grimy stevedores gathers as the mooring lines are thrown out. Most quickly disperse when the Ewe produces lit- tle cargo, so only a few remain, Some of the crew, evidently released for shore leave, scramble onto the dock and move along quickly toward the bars and dens of iniquity nearby, The sailor who hired on just before departure exits as well, but amidst a hail of curses from the first mate, ending with "Yer a son o' the bottomside o' a goose-necked barnacle, desertin' a ship inna first port ye enter!" He chucks a broken block at the departing sailor, who breaks into a run toward shore. The mate stumps away from the rail, muttering "Tha' runt got passage fer work, and nae much good o' that as well"
The sailor melts into the crowd. Within
minutes, he has made contact with the slave lord agent at the Broken Rudder. His new orders are to contact the player characters and lead them to the inn. When the charac- ters leave the ship, the sailor pops up again.
"Scuse me mighty gents; he says. “It ‘curs to me that we might have common chattin' to do. Can I have a minute? I didn't reckon at first what we might have common between us, great persons, but it 'curs to me that we here doin' the same game, the very same? Y'see, I had folks, north o' Fax, but they got nabbed, see? Slavers took 'em, took 'em away, an' y I'm here lookin’, same as you I'd
The sailor pauses. “But I betcha | heard somethin’ you hain't. Y'see, Fax folk know all ‘bout the Elredd crowd, and they's in the pockets o' the slavers, see? So I figured, I figured you'd better know. I gots the name o' folks who don't like it, see. The place's here, writ on this paper, see, this paper here. But I cain't read it, so's I figured you bein’ smart folks, that you can read this fer me.”
He shoves a grimy scrap of paper toward you, It looks to have been torn from a holy scroll or writ. "Just gotta go here an find the man, see, find the man, and he'll tell me a bunch.”
He insists the characters tell him the name of the place and contact ("Inkeeper at the Broken Rudder"), and then, thanking them repeatedly, departs. If he is followed, he does not return to his employers—but he does spend more money than a common sailor could be expected to own. If interro- gated, he blusters and denies every suspi- cion. However, a little roughing up makes him promptly break down and tell all he knows—about the Mad One in Safeton and the name of a contact in the dock area.
Sailor spy: AC 10; MV 12% HD 1; hp 3; #AT 1; D 1-4: AL NE
Life in Elredd
Listed below are some general encounters to use on the player characters as they roam he streets of Elredd. There аге no specific aps of Elredd. Instead, use the geomorphic ity maps provided in the map booklet.
The Splash and Grab: A character is oused in a bucket of sewage from above. nfortunately for the affected, it is less than ccidental; a Filcher (T6, PP 80% due to dis-
traction from above) makes a quick attempt to clean the pockets of one of the characters. The thief is a human male, about 30 years old. The upstairs accomplice is an appren- tice (1st level) thief.
Family Reunion: A large, muscular, drunken fighter accosts a party member, thinking him or her to be a long-lost sibling.
The Event: A well-dressed gentleman offers to sell the party tokens (tickets) for an illegal gladiatorial blood-match, explaining that he has been called to court. He gives a location in the dock area after the tokens are sold. If the party goes there, they find an empty warehouse. The event is, of course, a fraud.
A Dock On the Bay
The waterfront of Elredd is a lively and seamy place. In its taverns, shops, and mar- kets can be found sea-going ruffians, pen- sioned marines, old salts, beggars, fishmongers, rat-catchers, scullery maids, foreign merchants, procurers, cooks, housewives, guardsmen, beggars, cripples, street urchins, vegetable sellers, tradesmen, and port officials. Houses loom over the muddy tracks called streets. The open squares are crammed with tented stalls. Gaping mouth cod, shad, ocean perch, smelts, eels, and flatfish are piled on benches next to baskets of oysters, clams, mussels, periwinkles, and other strangely- shelled creatures. Chickens, geese, goats, lambs, and pigs squawk and squeal from their cages. Piles of melons and potatoes overflow into the aisles. Baskets of vegeta- bles and over-ripe fruits attract hordes of hungry flies.
If the player characters ask around about the slave lords, they get a very chilly recep- tion. Although Elredd regularly trades with the slave lords, its citizens are not keen on discussing the relationship. Thus, direct questions about the slave lords are met with hostility and silence.
However, the characters can gain infor- mation through more discreet approaches. If the locals are asked about “a ship with purple sails" or "recent ships from up the coast” for example, the locals are more helpful. It is sufficient if the player charac- ters can avoid mentioning the slave lords or their trade when asking questions. In response, the locals tell the characters that no ship of that description has landed here in the past few days. If the characters are astute enough to ask about favored haunts of the crews of these ships, they are directed to the Broken Rudder.
The Broken Rudder
The Broken Rudder is located in one of the worst waterfront districts of Elredd, Owned secretly by the slave lords, it is run by a former adventurer named Carn. Carn is also the former owner; he had a few bad gambling debts that, unfortunately, came into the hands of the slave lords. When these were finally called in, it cost him own- ership of the Broken Rudder. The new own- ers, not having an interest in tavern management, agreed to keep Carn on as proprietor. He has come to actually enjoy this arrangement, for they treat him well and now he is finally on the winning side of the crooked games run in the back room. In return, he overlooks the several slave lord agents based in the inn and their activities.
The clientele attracted to the Broken Rud- der is generally lower class laborers with a sprinkling of bad-luck adventurers; most of them are ignorant of the inn's true character. The local baron is aware that some pro- slaver individuals appear in the inn on a reg- ular basis, but is not aware that the inn itself is essentially in slaver hands. An agent of the baron intermittently spends his evenings at the Broken Rudder, gathering informa- tion and generally keeping an ear to the
und.
The following non-player characters are in the employ of the slave lords and can be found at the inn.
Carn: AC 8; MV 12"; F8; hp 42; /AT 2/1; D 1-8 +3 (longsword); SA weapon speciali- zation on longsword; AL N; $16, 113, W 8, D 16, Co 8, Ch 14
Carn is an elderly fighter who has seen one too many adventures. Now all he desires is a comfortable, exciting, but not physically dangerous life. Carn is aware of the operations going on in the inn but is well paid to remain in the background. If ques- tioned he refrains from talking, but may be swayed by arrangements that include him regaining ownership of the Broken Rudder without incurring the wrath of the slave lords.
Ragnar Ruvik: AC 0; MV 6”; F11; hp 56; ВАТ 2/1 (longsword); D 1-8 +4; S 17, I 14, W 18, D 12, Co 17, Ch 13
Equipment: longsword -*3—"Greaser" (possessor immune to magic missile spells; detects good in а 10’ radius; tele- portation once/day; communicates by telepathy; Ego 9, Intelligence 17), plate mail +1, shield +1, potions of flying, speed, water breathing, elixir of life, philter of stuttering and stammering.
Ragnar, a dwarf, is the brother of Agnar Ruvik and the ringleader of the slave lords' network in Elredd. He is also the pay master of the local spy ring. These duties have given him the rank of Minor Lord among the slave lords. He is often confused with Agnar, the two being nearly identical in appearance. lt is bitingly said of the two that Ragnar stole all the wit of his brother and gave him nothing in return. Ragnar has all the virtues of Agnar—a wicked sense of battle tactics and a muscular frame—and an ample amount of brilliance and cunning. He is intelligent, adaptable, and well-read.
us, he is an extremely dangerous enemy.
He makes liberal use of tricks, deceptions, and traps, preferring to strike only when all the odds are in his favor. He almost always has a plan of operations and usually has sev- eral in case the first goes awry. He will flee without shame. His only qualm about aban- doning others is the loss of useful resources this may entail. As such, he is perfectly suited to the fraternity of the slave lords and has been quickly rising in their ranks.
If a combat situation is extremely dire, he uses Greaser's teleport ability to escape to a place of safety—either Lo Highport or some- where else in Elredd. As paymaster, he has 7,500 gp worth of 10-500 gp gems and 500 gp in assorted coins concealed in his room.
Hazzard: АС 5; MV 12"; MU9; hp 42; #AT 1; D by weapon; SA spells; AL NE; S8, I 17, W 12, D 14, Co 16, Ch 14
Equipment: bracers of defense ACS, ring of free action, wand of negation (35 charges)
Spells: affect normal fires, magic missile, unseen servant, ventriloquism, fool's gold, invisibility, strength, feign death, haste, suggestion, dimension door, poly- morph self, teleport
Hazzard is a male human nearing late middle age. His role within the organization is Ragnar's right hand man. He examines all reports for details otherwise missed and checks the truth of all statements. He is well known by the patrons as a spellcaster although he does not dress the part. At times he drinks too much; when drunk, he is given to showing off with minor spells.
When sober, Һе isan efficient if not overly brave combatant. He keeps an eye peeled for characters about to use a device so that he may use his wand of negation. He quite sensibly avoids combat and has a particular dislike of those using missile weapons. In an emergency, Hazzard will dimension door to his room for his spell books before teleport- ing away to safety in Highport.
In his room at the inn he has hidden away traveling spell books with his most com- monly used spells and a ring of swimming.
Knocker: AC 4; MV 9”; T5; hp 33; #AT 1; D by weapon (shortsword); SA backstab for triple damage; AL М, S 10, 114, W 10, D 18, Co 16, Ch 9 Knocker is a small-time thief, now a rene-
gade from the thieves' guild. Although not
particularly good or virtuous, his sense of propriety has been disturbed by the activi- ties of the slave lords, all of which have received the support of the guild. Removing himself from their association, he now makes a poor living practicing his skills in the area of the Broken Rudder. So far, the guild has not been able to touch him, but he has had visits from its members, question- ing him and occasionally roughing him up.
Fortunately, early in his career he gained a little local notoriety and popularity for stealing the brass knocker from the door of the city’s Council Hall, completing the audacious act by selling the knocker back to the council for a pretty penny. He has many non-guild contacts willing to give him shel- ter and assistance.
Knocker harbors aspirations of staging a coup against the guild, replacing it with his own organization, which would not be exclusively built of thieves. To this end, he is always on the lookout for new contacts and friends.
Knocker is aware of the slaver operations at the inn, but knows any interference by him would be fatal. He has no love of the slave lords, considering them the most likely threat to his ambitions, and will secretly aid any well-reasoned effort to hurt them. As such, he may secretly pass on damaging information to the player charac- ters (if they broadcast their goals) concern- ing the activities of Ragnar and Hazzard, He may also arrange for a safe house for the characters, through a third party. In the extreme case that the player characters get involved in a fight in the Broken Rudder, Knocker may join their side—but only if the characters stand а good chance of winning and he can act without discovery. Thus, he may throw a dagger from the shadows, trip up an attempted ambush, or even protect the rear of the player characters (without their seeing it). He will not fight under the orders of the characters and will not take prisoners.
In addition to these major characters at the Broken Rudder, there are assorted cus- tomers who come and go. Most of these, however, do not become involved in any
events at the inn. As the center of the local spy network, there are always 1-4 slave lord agents present.
Minor Agents: AC 7; MV 12”; T2-4; hp 7- 13; ВАТ 1; D 1-4 or 1-6; AL NE; SA Backstab х2
Life at the Broken Rudder
There are two main events that can occur at the Broken Rudder, depending on how well informed the slave lord agents are about the player characters,
Ambush!
This encounter should be used if the slave lord agents know the identities and inten- tions of the player characters, either through the Mad One, Targil and Agnar, or the seaman aboard the Ewe.
When the player characters arrive at the Broken Rudder, Carn spots them and passes a signal to Hazzard who is sitting at a table near the rear exit. He, in turn, passes a secret signal to Ragnar, standing in the shadowy entrance to the kitchen, This series of sig- nals sets the plan in motion.
During the next half hour, 10 thugs, agents of the slave lords, enter the Broken Rudder and lounge around. They do all the things normal patrons would do, ignoring the player characters. They form groups of twos and threes, spread well apart from each other. They are stationed on all sides of the player characters.
After all have arrived, Carn slips a few drops of a poisonous plant in their drinks. This does not kill but acts as a muscle relax- ant, slowing their reactions and physical control. All characters who take a drink must make a saving throw vs. Poison. Those who save are unaffected. Those who fail are -1 on initiative rolls and -2 on all chances to hit. This effect lasts for 1-3 hours.
A few minutes after the drinks are served, the ambush is sprung. Hazzard slips into the shadowed doorway with Ragnar and gives the signal to attack—a haste spell cast upon the thugs. These men close calmly on the characters and then one group attacks. While the characters are fighting this group, the others try to strike from behind, gaining their backstab bonus. If all succeeds, Ragnar and Hazzard won't have to inter- vene. However, if things do not go well, Hazzard uses his spells from the darkness— starting with his magic missile. Only in extreme cases does Ragnar become
involved. Although the goal is to destroy the player characters, the villains will not refuse the opportunity to take a prisoner should it present itself.
Character Assault!
If the characters become suspicious of the Broken Rudder, they may decide upon a blatant frontal assault. In this case, Ragnar, Carn, and Hazzard are present along with 1-4 slaver agents. The slaver agents are unprepared, but fight back as best they can. Unless specifically identified by the player characters, however, Ragnar will not take part in the battle. He pretends to be an inno- cent bystander and flees the inn (like all the other innocent bystanders) at the first possi- ble chance.
The Rewards of the Broken Rudder
Within the chambers of Ragnar and Haz- zard are papers and documents recording the activities of the slave lords in the area, If either is able to reach his room, he gathers these documents, destroying some in the fireplace and taking the rest along as he escapes.
If they do not reach their rooms (for whatever reason) the documents remain hidden in secret places—under a floor- board, behind a sliding panel, in a false drawer, or wherever you decide. This hid- ing place can be found by a successful find traps roll (or a find traps spell). The hiding place is also trapped with a poison needle (save vs. poison or die). A second find traps roll must be made to find this needle, once the hiding place is located.
The Documents: Following is a list of the documents that can be found in each room and the information contained on each. IF the NPC escaped, only those documents marked with an asterisk will be found, and these are in the fireplace and only partially intact.
Ragnar's Room
Account Ledgers: This is a sheaf of yel- lowing parchment (about 100 pages) bound with red ribbon. Each page is covered with columns of crabbed writing. The first column lists the item, the second the receiver of the payment, the third amounts paid out, and the fourth amounts paid in. Unfortunately, Ragnar used a system of sim- ple shorthand and abbreviations, written in dwarvish, for most entries, Most deal with routine matters, but examining the ledgers
carefully (several days of work) gives the following name abbreviations: Ag., Haz., МО, Safe., Tar., Sturm—HP.” Of these, the first four entries are payments out and the last always records payments in.
A careful examination reveals that pay- ments in exceed the combined total of pay- ments out and the coins in the pay chest, Hidden elsewhere in Elredd is a secret fund set up by Ragnar. If the characters decide to pursue this, decide the location of the cache. They will have to ask around town to see if anyone has seen Ragnar and use this to find his hideout. He may or may not be present.
Message from the Slave Ship: This small, curled slip of paper states, "Received ms. Raiding good on bay. Sailing direct to port— Capt. Joinville.’ If partially burned it states, “rectly to port— Capt."
Transcript of a Magical Communication: Scrawled across several sheets of paper is the following. (Passages in italics survive in the fireplace.)
"Ms. from Bloodwort—Capt. Joinville. Rding in Safe area. Voy. good, profit expected. Losses light. Cargo inv. Woman, 40, of station and breeding, quite ransom- able; 3 boys, fit to stand on block; husband and wife, trained servants, suitable for spe- cial needs; 4 males, mid-20, no visible trade, suitable only for block; trained artisan, giv- ing good treatment, suggest arranging patron; scholar and alchemist, special auc- tions required."
Secret Communique: This message is written on white linen paper, edged with red gold. (Only the italicized portions survive if the letter is burned.)
"Ragnar of Clan Hargirt, Greetings to Your Illustrious Self; Much warmed is my heart to harken to thy recent successes. So much do the virtues of your spirit shine, my heart yearns to call thee to my side. Thou art the source of my courage and the head- water of my desire to pursue the course which lies ahead of us. Patience is the coun- sel 1 give to thee, Our stars must be arranged before we can act. Alas, that the token I send can only dimly reflect the love that 1 feel. “I write to advise thee caution, my love! Send the aid that you must for us to succeed by the most circumspect route, for old Klim grows nervous. J must watch him carefully. For thyself, remember the traps of the oth- ers on the Council are many and convo- luted. If thou art discovered now, then thy life is lost!
"Edralve"
17
Hazzard's Room
Orders from Ragnar: A scrap of paper has orders to Hazzard from Ragnar. “Ship not stopping, continuing down coast instead. Cancel unloading plans. Let out that masters are displeased with support here and considering diverting traffic. May require friendlier attitude from the locals to keep our trade. Make them nervous. Highport may become port of choice.”
If the burned scrap is found, all that remains is "Ship not stopping, continuing down"
Hazzard's Journal: The second item found in Hazzard's room is his daily jour- nal, a collection of vellum scrolls. They are filled with careful handwriting, illustra- tions, and illuminations. It is clear he has spent much work and effort on these. Studying the scrolls carefully takes 2-4 days and must be done by a magic user, since there are many references only understood by those in that trade.
The writings cover many mundane details, all of no interest to the characters. Many references are made to activities of the slave lords' network in the area, but most are those of an insider. Thus crucial facts are left unexplained and people not identified.
However, characters can learn that Ragnar's brother (unnamed) and his associ- ates are part of the network. There are sev- eral references to “our man in Safeton.” It is also clear that Hazzard is an agent of the one of the major lords, having direct (but secret) communications with this lord, known only as the Servant of the Earth Dragon. Hazzard was hoping to advance himself through this arrangement, while the Servant of the Earth Dragon used Hazzard to watch Ragnar, whom he does not trust. The reasons for this distrust are not explained, but several times Hazzard notes that he was exhorted to secrecy, not just from Ragnar but all those associated with the slave lords.
Utter Failure
If the characters survive the Broken Rud- der encounter but totally miss any possible clues or allies there (either through bad luck, inattentiveness, or stupidity), they can still get a lead. Sometime after leaving the inn, a merchant offers to sell them some goods they obviously do not want. Once rejected, he offers them slaves, or at least information about where they can pick some up. He reveals nothing if threatened, and if not, he demands the most exorbitant price the player characters look to be able to
afford. He accepts both money and goods in trade although he is not too keen on magical items the characters don't obviously use. Since you are giving the player characters such an obvious clue, you should make them pay dearly for their previous failures.
Leaving Town
Once the player characters have finished their business in Elredd, they should be ready to set out to Highport. They can once again rent a ship in the harbor or travel overland. Again, the trip overland takes much longer than that by sea, so the player characters should consider their alternatives carefully.
Traveling by Sea: Unknown to the player characters, the ship they finally sail upon has been contacted by the agents of the slave lords. The captain of the vessel has been handsomely paid to rendezvous with another vessel off a spit of land one day to the south. With assurances that his ship will not be harmed, he has been well-paid not to ask questions and has been promised more gold upon delivery. Not surprisingly, he agreed to this arrangement. He suspects the deal has something to do with his newly arrived passengers and so does not mention a thing to them. He and all his crew are neu- tral in alignment.
Traveling by Land: The road south to Highport is reputed to be a dangerous one. It is common for travelers to assemble at the south gate each morning and form an impromptu caravan. Such expeditions nor- mally include one or two smaller caravans and up ot 10 assorted other travelers. They band together for protection, but are not particularly interested in each other. It is considered a good practice not to inquire too much about a man's reason for traveling to Highport. Too often, the questioner may not want to know the answer.
No matter whether the player characters join an assembly at the gate or set out on their own, they soon find themselves in the company of a merchant caravan, also head- ing to Highport. The caravan, while not overly interested in the characters, requests that they travel together for mutual safety. The 16 mules of the caravan are loaded with bars of pig iron to be sold in the Highport markets.
There are no slaves in the caravan, but questions about slave confirm that Highport is a good place to go. However, unknown to the characters, the master of the caravan is an agent of the slave lords. He
is returning from a trip to the north with supplies desired by his masters. He has been warned about the player characters and knows that they will be dealt with some- where along the road.
If the characters refuse to travel with the caravan, the master simply shrugs his shoul- ders and leaves them. Moving on, he noti- fies the ambushers of the advance of the player characters.
Caravan Master: AC 2; MV 12"; F8; hp 41; #AT 3/2; D 1-8 +3; AL М; 5 18(62), 111, W 13, D 12, CO 14, CH 13
Equipment: longsword +1, chainmail +2, potion of heroism, figurines of won- drous power (golden lions)
Caravan Guards (20); AC 4; MV 12”; F 2; hp 15 each; #AT 1; D 1-8 or 1-6; AL М; armed with shortbows and longswords
Drivers and Servants (9): AC 8; MV 12”; normal humans; hp 4 each; AAT 1; D 1- 6; AL N; armed with short swords; each handles three mules: two loaded with pig iron and one loaded with possessions and supplies.
Encounters on the Road
The trip from Elredd to Highport is more perilous than that made before. The road winds down the coastline further into the untamed Pomarj and closer to the Drachens- grab Mountains. Although the slave lords are powerful in this area, they by no means con- trol the inhabitants of the Pomarj.
Orcs: An orc raiding party appears on the fringe of the woods, flying a white flag. Their leader appears to want to parley. However, if anyone comes out to talk, the orcs produce their bows, hidden in the grass, and fire a flight of arrows. This is followed by a howling attack. The trick has worked in the past and they hope it works today.
Ores (40): AC 6; MV 9”; HD 1; hp 5; #AT 1; D 1-8 or 1-6; AL CE; armed with short- bows and longswords
Giant Ticks: The road passes through a particularly heavy section of the forest at this point. It twists and turns between the giant boles of old trees. Rounding one corner, the player characters see the decomposing, car- cass of an oxen laying in the road. Hidden in the branches of the trees over the carcass are four giant ticks. These creatures drop on any characters who pass under their spot, one victim per tick, They are extremely tenacious and mindless, remaining on their victims until one or the other is slain.
18
Giant Ticks (4); AC 3; МУЗ” HD 2, 3, 4, 4; hp 8, 15, 21, 23; #AT 1; D 1-4; SA blood drain 1-6, 50% diseased; AL N
Anhkheg: This encounter occurs when the characters are traveling through clear terrain,
You cross a low ridge and leave the wood line to look across a bizarre, patterned meadow. Criss-crossing the gentle slope
are humped ridges like giant gopher tun- nels, Some are weedy and dry while oth- ers look to be quite fresh and moist.
It is impossible to follow the road without crossing at least one of the tunnel mounds. Players can skirt the field, but this requires much backtracking and takes at least half a day.
If the characters do cross the field, the first tunnel crossed collapses under the lead character (but not NPC), The fall brings down a torrent of loose earth and dirt, blocking the passage and sealing the charac- ter off from the surface. Size S creatures suf- fer 1-6 points of damage, size M creatures suffer 1-8 points of damage, and size L crea- tures suffer 3-18 points of damage.
The tunnels are simple earthen passages about 6 feet in diameter. Attempts to tunnel in or out cause the same amount of damage as listed above. The tunnels form a confus- ing network of passages and intersections, with only a few openings to the surface.
Furthermore, there are four anhkhegs liv- ing in the tunnels. For every 60 feet the trapped characters move, roll 1d10 on the Anhkheg Tunnels table to see what the tun- nel does. The resulting tunnel complex is not likely to make sense (but it was dug by anhkhegs, after all). Many of the tunnels slope gradually, passing under and over each other.
Anhkheg Tunnels
Die Roll Result
1 Straight, no intersections
2 Gradual curve, no intersections
3 Yintersection
4 Straight with 20-foot-deep shaft in floor, leading to other tunnels
5 Four-way intersection
6 Dead end
7 Gradual curve with Y-intersection
8 Straight with 5-foot-wide shaft in ceiling leading to other tunnels
9  Tintersection
10 Exit to the surface
There is a 3095 chance each round that one of the anhkhegs will appear in the same tunnel area. It attacks, of course. In addi- tion, there is a 15% chance each round that the characters find the treasure of the anhkhegs—four gems (each worth 1,000 gp), scale mail +2, and a set of eyes of min- ute seeing.
Encounters on the Waves
Octopi! Three giant octopi decide that supper is but a small merchant ship away. One grasps each side of the ship while the third attacks from the bow. Note that the body of each octopus is beyond reach from the deck of the ship. Only the tentacles can be attacked with melee weapons. Should anyone approach close enough to strike the main body of an octopus, he is within range of its beak.
Octopi: AC 7; MV //12^; HD 8; hp 35, 41, 25; #AT 7; D 1-4 (x6), 2-12 (beak); SA constriction (2-8); SD 8 hp per tentacle; ALN
Captured!
At some point on the journey between Elredd and Highport, the player characters run afoul of the slave lords and are cap- tured! This is an essential part of the adven- ture, and as referee, you should make every effort to ensure the player characters do not escape the traps of the slave lords. You want them captured, whether they want it or not!
Shanghaied!
If the player characters are traveling aboard the ship hired in Elredd, the captain keeps his rendezvous. Well after 1 a.m. he lays off the spit as arranged. The night has a light fog, shrouding objects in the distance. Just barely visible in the fog is the Ghoul, a slaver galley. The captain orders a small boat sent out with some of his best raiders. These men come up alongside the stern of the characters ship and scramble up the side. They quietly pour a noxious liquid through the portholes of the player charac- ters' cabin. This liquid is a powerful anes- thetic which evaporates quickly into the air. Any sleeping characters are unconscious for the rest of the night. If characters are awake,
f the die roll, but the player should never told this. Do not reveal what happens to hose in the cabin until all characters on the
ship have been dealt with.
After doping the characters in their cabin, the men clamber onto the deck. They try to surprise and capture characters on deck, using their magical items to achieve this. Unless the player character is being very watchful, cautious, and attentive, the attack succeeds automatically.
Once all player characters are captured (or killed), they are transferred to the Ghoul. If the player characters fought val- iantly to protect the captain and crew from the giant octopi early that day, the captain feels a bit of remorse at his actions. He arranges to slip the following items onto the player characters. Since the slavers have already stripped the player characters, these items are not noticed. They are:
A small knife (1-2 points of damage)
a healing potion
10 gold coins
a ruby (500 gp)
a slip of paper with the name "Hardoquin of The Swinging Man—see him"
a tinderbox
a rusty key
However, if the characters did no more than would be expected to save the ship (and themselves), the captain gives them no special aid.
When the characters are captured, the raiders return with them to their ship, shrouded in fog.
Capturing Party:
8th level fighter: AC 0; MV 12^; һр 42; #AT 3/2; D 1-8* 1; SA Net of Entrapment, longsword +1, chain mail +4; AL NE
7th level thief: AC 4; MV 12”; hp 24; #AT 1; D 1-8; MS 60%, HS 47%, Backstab x3; potion of human control, rope of entan- glement; AL NE
6th level monk: AC 6; MV 20”; hp 26; #AT 1 or 3/2; D 1-10 +3 or 2-8; MS 47%, HS 37%, dodge; stone of good luck; AL LE
Bushwhacked!
If the characters are traveling cross- country, their movements are known to the slave lords and their agents.
If the characters are traveling with the caravan, their capture is easy, While follow- ing the road through the woods, the charac- ters walk into a prepared ambush. The trees, which close down upon the road, are actually massmorphed fighters, 20 to either side. As soon as the player characters are in their midst, a clerical silence 15' radius is cast over the party, or the spellcasters at
19
least. The soldiers and the guards of the car- avan turn their weapons on the player char- acters, demanding their surrender. Once the characters surrender, the soldiers securely bind and gag them all.
If the player characters are traveling by themselves, the ambush is staged as above with only the following changes: several silence spells have been cast on the road in advance; a 10-foot-deep pit is dug across the road; and the caravan guards will obviously not be present,
Soldiers (40): AC 4; MV 12”; F1; hp 6; #AT 1; D 1-6 or 1-8; AL LE; armed with long- bows and swords
Cleric Leaders (3): AC 1; MV 12": C5; hp 20, 23, 18; #AT 1; D 1-6; SA Spells;
AL LE
Spells: bless, cure light wounds (x2), find traps, hold person, silence 15' radius, animate dead
In either of the above situations— Shanghaied or Bushwhacked—the player characters may take steps to negate the effectiveness of these plans. As such, you may have to alter these schemes to best fit the circumstances. Remember, vou do want to capture the player characters, but in a way that seems fair. You have succeeded if, when all is done, the players look back and see ways they could have avoided the trap.
Fates Worse Than Death
After the player characters are captured, they are taken aboard the Ghoul, a slave lord galley. If they were shanghaied, they awaken in the gloomy rowing banks of the ship. They are manacled and cuffed; spell- casters are muzzled with an iron gag. Stand- ing over them is a large, bare-chested overseer, whip and keys in hand. The char- acters have been stripped to their common clothing and any bits of finery are missing.
If the player characters were traveling overland, they are bound and gagged, then forced to march to the coast. This is by the shortest possible route. Nothing of interest happens during this march, except that the characters are very cruelly treated. If play- ers are clever and look for opportunities, their characters have a chance to pick up a few simple items—a sharp stone, a wiry branch, tinder, etc. These they can hide in their pants, boots, or other places. The characters will already have been stripped of all their other goods.
Once aboard the Ghoul and conscious, the characters are brought on deck. The Ghoul is a tightly run ship. It has a single mast and two banks of oars worked by row- ers below the main deck. The ship is clean and well-scrubbed. The sail, brilliant pur- ple, is full of wind.
On the deck are the captain (an elf), his first mate (human), and four bodyguards. The characters are dragged forward by the overseers. “Kneel,” sneers the captain, Any character who refuses or hesitates to kneel is set upon by the nearest overseer, He grabs the character, throttling him with the butt of his whip. A hard kick to the back of the knees brings the character down to the deck. The overseer, maintaining his pres- sure, grinds the slave's face into the plank- ing. Even those who kneel do not escape. Once on their knees, they are pushed down to kowtow on the deck. The overseers place a foot on the backs of their necks and press them down. All are held in this position while the captain speaks.
"Right now, I could kill you. It would be easy. It would be merciful. Unfortu- nately for you, | am not merciful. You have caused a minor inconvenience to my lords. To them you have been no more than an irritating fly. But, you do not know my lords. They are cruel, oh, quite cruel. They would not swat a fly— no, they are slow and patient. They have sent you to me, not for me to kill you, not yet. No, first you will work as my slaves, pulling the oars in my hold. Then, perhaps you will wish to die. Indeed, you might collapse from exhaus- tion. But, I will resurrect you. And we will begin again. 1 wonder how long, how many times you can survive?”
At this point, the captain will stage a little demonstration. He has all the equipment of the player characters brought onto the deck. It has been carefully checked over. He and his men take any items they can use, flour- ishing and strapping these on. Next, he orders any usable items stowed in the hold. After this, he selects those items that cannot be identified or can only be used by those of good alignment (or other prohibitive restrictions) and carries them, carefully, to the rail. "Look, dogs!" he shouts, as he pur- posefully and slowly dumps each item into the ocean. (This should be a moving and upsetting event, particularly for any materi- alistic players. Play the scene for all it is worth.)
This done, the captain turns away from the characters with a bored wave of dis- missal, as if they are little more than worms. The overseers yank the characters toward the hold. Then, turning back just as the characters disappear from sunlight, the cap- tain once again sneers, "Oh, and don't think that you are going to complete your little mission of mercy in time either. Your pre- cious Dame Gold spoke of that and my mas- ters are most interested in the potion she had devised. Thank you for delivering it to me.” The overseers then grab the characters and thrust them into the hold.
(Unknown to the other slave lords, the captain of the Ghoul is in the special service of Stalman Klim, who sits on the council of the slave lords. He maintains secret com- munication with the captain through a mir- ror of mental prowess. This is how the potion will be passed on. Stalman has taken a special interest in the player characters and may decide to use them as pawns against the other slave lords, Eldrave in par- ticular.)
In The Depths of the Ghoul
Below decks, the player characters are introduced to their new duties. They are dragged to the lower bank of the oars, the foulest of all tasks. The light is dim, water seeps through cracks and splashes through the oar sockets, the air is stifling and foul. Rows of hard wooden benches extend from either side of a walkway.
There are 15 oars per side, each worked by two men (a total of 60 slaves in the hold). At the head of the hold is a steep ladder leading to the deck. Directly overhead is the upper bank of oars, also 15 to a side, The center section between the two banks is open and the deck covers everything.
At the front of the hold, on a platform level with the upper deck, is the pacesetter—a burly man who rythmically pounds a large kettledrum in front of him. The oars are worked according the pace he sets; quarter speed, half speed, full speed, and ramming or emergency speed. (These are beaten at the approximate rate of 1 every 6 seconds, 3 seconds, 1 second, and half second, respectively.)
Behind him is a door to the forward crew quarters. There is also a door on the lower bank, leading to the armory and treasure stores. At the back of the hold are doors to more crew quarters (upper bank) and stores (lower bank). There is another steep gang- way leading from the lower bank to the
20
deck.
The overseers assign each character to a different bench in the lower hold. The char- acters are unbound and unshackled, one at a time. The overseers take a chain and man- acles, running the chain through a sliding socket wrapped around the oar handle. A large wooden block at the end of the oar keeps this sleeve from sliding off. (The block can be removed by the overseers with a sharp blow from a maul.) The manacles are closed around the character's wrists. A smith then comes forward with a portable brazier and anvil. Reaching into the brazier, he plucks out a cherry red rivet and ham- mers it through the manacle clamp. Sparks and hot metal fly from his hammer, searing the wrists of the character. A bucket of cold seawater is dumped on the hot metal when he is done, further inflaming the burns of the character.
The character will forever bear the dis- tinctive scars of the manacles. Since these are also scars borne by convicts and slaves, the characters will often be scorned and despised by "good" people, should they escape their current predicament.
Although there is a heavy metal staple in the floor, the characters are not shackled at this time. Characters identified as spellcast- ers, either from their dress, their spellbooks, or observation, are fitted with a leather muzzle which clamps their mouths almost completely shut, allowing them to barely mumble. Unfortunately, this effectively pre- vents them from casting spells.
Once the characters are fastened to their oars, they are expected to immediately begin rowing. Those who do not are given a quick feel of the lash to motivate them.
After the overseers move on, the charac- ters have a chance to talk to their fellow slaves. These men (and a few women) speak only in hushed whispers. Among the 60 slaves of the lower bank, there is a wide variety of personalities. Use the Galley Slaves table to determine the personality and reaction of any slave the characters speak to. Since the characters are likely to spend many days chained beside the same person, you should make notes about each slave you create and who he is alongside.
Galley Slaves
Die
Roll Personality
1 Exhausted, spirit broken, speaks only of defeat and hopelessness.
2 Sullen and resentful, always talking of what he would when he escapes, but never tries to escape.
3 Sad but quite calm, seems eager to escape but always finds the logical flaws with any plan, has inwardly given up to his fate.
4 Sullen and angry, outwardly hostile to anyone but quite willing to join any escape effort, no matter how hopeless.
5 Pleasant and almost annoyingly cheer- ful, maintaining a strong front to buoy the spirits of himself and others.
6 A trouble-maker, always mouthing back to the overseers, attempting to get others in trouble or divert the blame to them,
7 Asniveling wretch with no backbone or morals, who would love to learn of an escape attempt simply so he could betray the plotters and earn a reward from his captors.
8 A strong-willed survivor, who saves his energy and says little, while he patiently awaits the chance to escape, alone or with company.
9 A deranged slave who cares little for what has happened to him or what he will do next, just content to be helpful and good at his rowing.
10 A hapless but good-hearted person, not overly imaginative but willing to try hard in any escape plan, except that he can't think of anything himself.
There is a 5% chance that any slave spo- ken to is an unfortunate adventurer cap- tured in a previous raid. The class and race of this character are your choice. It is sug- ted that you create this character to fill y gaps in the player character party. This dventurer-galley slave has 2-5 levels. Nat- ly, he has no equipment.
he Daily Routine
Life as a galley slave aboard the Ghoul is imple, with few surprises. You row with all our might all day, enjoy a bowl of thin , and sleep on your bench all night.
at is, if you follow the rules.
to 6 AM
At this time, three overseers come, nlock the shackles of the slaves, slide the ollar of the manacles back onto the oar and
hammer the wooden end cap back into place. Both rowers at a bench are unlocked at the same time. This takes about 30 min- utes to complete, and any slave who does not move fast enough is whipped. Those who died during the night are thrown over- board by four of their fellow slaves.
6 AM to Evening
The slaves row. The pace of the rowing varies throughout the day. It is strenuous and exhausting work. Each week spent at the oars (or part thereof), each character loses 1-8 hit points from exhaustion and lack of adequate food and water. There is a 10% chance that an NPC slave collapses and dies from exhaustion. If one dies, check again to see if another dies, Continue check- ing until no slave dies.
All through the day, the slaves are watched by four guards—two at each end of the hold—on the upper bank. These guards are not paid to watch the activities of the slaves so much as to be ready to react to any attempted escape or revolt. They notice quiet activity only 20% of the time. How- ever, attempts to leave the hold or mass movements are automatically detected.
A greater problem for any escape are the two overseers—one for each bank—who patrol the length of the hold. These vicious taskmasters maintain order and discipline within the hold, applying the lash to those who break the rules or whom they do not like, They instantly notice any significant change (an empty seat, missing manacles, etc.). They have a 45% chance of noticing hastily concealed changes and a 25% chance to spot carefully concealed preparations.
During the day, one old slave, too weak to assist in the rowing, moves up and down the banks with a bucket of dirty water and a cup, giving drinks to those who need them. The old fellow, while unable to aid in a revolt, is quite willing to carry messages to other slaves in the course of his rounds. He is also a good source of gossip and informa- tion about other slaves.
Evening
First, the three overseers come around to fit the slaves out for the night. One knocks the end cap off the oar and fits the shackles on the ankles of each slave. The chain passes through the iron staple in the floor. Again, only two slaves are unshackled at any time. As they do this, the overseers select the four slaves to serve dinner for the night. This is an important duty (since the servers can play favorites when dishing out food), and
21
is generally given to the most favored or least dangerous of the slaves. Two of the slaves distribute the bowls while the other two ladle out spoonfuls of a greasy broth made from oats, dried fish, and salted cab- bage. After this, they come around with stale sea biscuits and gourds of water. The menu seldom varies unless too many slaves have died or the captain is in a good mood. The only thing which puts the captain in a good mood is a successful raid. Thus slaves are rewarded for aiding in capturing more slaves. Again, the servers can carry mes- sages, but only to those sitting ahead of the character, since they work from the front to the back of the hold (rowers face the stern of the ship).
Evening to 5 AM
The slaves sleep. This can be done lying on the benches or the deck.
The shackles have six-foot chains, giving the character just enough slack to move his feet about. During the night, there is a 5% chance that an NPC slave collapses and dies. If one dies, check again to see if another dies, Keep doing this until all the slaves are dead or the die roll is missed and no more slaves die.
One guard is stationed on each platform for the night. This is frightfully boring duty and the guards are none too attentive. There is only a 20% chance of their noticing any stealthy activity (if done by a thief, make this die roll before checking the success of hide in shadows and other thief abilities). There is a 4096 chance that a guard falls asleep during the night. There is a 15% chance that a guard leaves his post for one or two hours during the night.
Weekly Exercise
Once a week the slaves are allowed onto the deck to exercise their legs and clean themselves. Half a bank is unshackled at a time, watched by 8 to 10 guards. The slaves are allowed 30 minutes on deck. Buckets of salt water are thrown on them to rinse the filth from their bodies. The slaves must then ps buckets and splash down their oar
ank.
Storms
Any time the Ghoul is in danger of sink- ing, 2-12 slaves are unshackled to man bilge pumps and buckets. No other slaves are freed even if the ship sinks. During the storm, waves of water crash over the deck, flooding and drenching the rowing banks. The hardship of a violent storm is such that all player characters suffer 1-3 points of damage from exhaustion by the end. Discipline
Life as a slave on the Ghoul has its rules and standard punishments. These punish- ments are normally administered by the overseers, some former slaves themselves. Punishment is never moderated by mercy.
Speaking: Those who talk too loudly, or talk at all in the presence of an overseer, are whipped. They receive 1-4 swings of the lash, each causing 1-2 points of damage.
Fighting: Slaves who fight among them- selves are dragged to the front of the hold and flogged. Flogging is 11-20 swings of the lash, each causing 1-2 points of damage. Any who survive the flogging are chained to an oar by themselves. This is horrendously exhausting, causing the loss of 1-4 hit points per day.
Attacking an Overseer: This is only if the slave does not seriously hurt the overseer. If the slave is not cut down on the spot, he is flogged 31-50 times, each swing causing 1-2 points of damage.
Injuring an Overseer: If a slave manages to actually hurt an overseer, the slave is slain. The only exceptions are when deaths have reduced the number of rowers too low and when the captain takes notice of the slave. Of course, the captain's notice may not be beneficial since he will probably order the prolonging of the slave's suffering instead of any mercy.
Other Offenses: Anything else that a slave might do which could be construed as offensive or dangerous results in either whippings, denial of food for a day or two, or death.
Escape
The slave lords have every intention of keeping the player characters as slaves until they die. The player characters must make their way to freedom. There is no help for them here. There are no conveniently help- ful guards or other easy rescues. It is going to take brains and initiative for the player characters to escape.
However, Stalman Klim has other plans
for the player characters, as described below.
The Black Market
Although there are no quick fixes for the player characters aboard the Ghoul, there are ways clever player characters can gain small advantages and guidance.
In any community, even that of galley slaves, there will spring into existence a sys- tem of trade. In this case, there is a secret market run more-or-less by the overseers and the favored slaves. These characters are able to arrange things such as better treat- ment, more food, small amenities, and pos- sibly even minor weapons. All these require, however, that the player characters have something to offer. Within a few months of being brought aboard, the char- acters are contacted by the black marke- teers,
Aside from anything the player charac- ters may have smuggled aboard with them, there is very little they can offer. Those chained to the same oar with a black marke- teer may be able to work out a deal where the character does all the rowing and the other merely fakes along. Otherwise, the characters may be able to sell information— a description of the powers of a magical
item the slavers confiscated (that would oth- erwise not be known), the command words to a magical item, etc. Information and spe- cial skills are particularly useful for trading. Promises of payment later or treasure hid- den elsewhere are not effective. Likewise, the black marketeers, particularly the over- seers, are not honest or honorable men, quite likely to double-deal a gullible person.
The following things can be obtained from the black marketeers, Remember that the price for any item or service is going to be far out of line with its value in normal cir- cumstances. Thus, a small, rusty knife is a tremendously valuable thing, commanding a huge price from the character.
Special duty (serving food, water, etc.)
Better food (reduces hit point loss to 1-4 per week)
Revenge (bribing an overseer to mistreat another slave)
Change of clothing
More time on deck
Small knife
Drug that feigns death
Being moved to a different bench
Stalman Klim
lt is to Stalman's advantage that the player characters escape, but only at the right time and with the right information,
acters are slyly given the opportunity to scape. The slaves are off-loaded and put to ork unloading cargo. During this time, the uards will be conveniently lax. 1f the char- cters think quickly and boldly, they can ake a successful break for freedom. A day or two after they have escaped and ound shelter, they receive a surprise. A ysterious bundle appears in their rooms, abelled simply "From a friend? The pack- ge contains some of their equipment (but o magical items) and some of the spell ooks of characters. You should decide hat spell books have survived.
umors
ou can use any of these rumors you prefer.
) The Ghoul is a trader owned and oper-
ed by the slave lords. It does not transport
aves, but engages in other trading activi- related to the slave lords.
The ship's main ports of call are
Highport and Elredd. Here most cargo is unloaded, new slaves for the oars are taken aboard, and new cargoes are added. Other stopping places include Kro Kerlep, Prymp, Blue, Monmurg, and Port Toli. However, slaves are seldom taken aboard at these ports, and never in number.
c) Sometimes the ship lays off the shore of some city at night, loading and unloading goods. At these times the sail is changed from its deep purple to a plain white,
d) There are supposed to be 20 slave lords who meet as a council and decide all issues of the organization. Only they know who the others are.
e) The slave lords must be somewhere inland, because goods are prepared for ship- ment overland.
f) The slave lords are massively wealthy, having built a private city of gold for them- selves and their followers. They own virtu- ally an entire kingdom.
g) The slave lords are not really in charge, they are controlled by a powerful demi-god of evil, perhaps even old luz.
h). One of the slaves managed to smuggle a message to his family. He knows that his cousin is in Highport, looking for him. If anyone ever escapes, they should carry a message to him. His name is Feodor.
i) Highport is the place to go if you're look- ing for the slave lords. They operate out of one of the temples there, Their masters are not human. (This is the particular piece of information Klim wants them to gain.)
The Crew
Captain Girana, 8th level elven fighter/ magic-user: AC 0; MV 12"; hp 34; #AT 3/2; D 1-8 “3; SA spells; AL LE
Spells: enlarge, magic missile (x2), shield, rope trick, pyrotechnics, stinking cloud, hold person, fly, suggestion, fire charm, fear, wall of fire
Equipment: bracers of defense AC 2, scroll of scare, longsword +1 (Flametongue)
Officers, human Sth level fighters (3): AC 3; МУ 12”; hp 26, 28, 34; #AT 1; D 1-8 +1; AL LE
Equipment: All have chain mail * 1 and carry cutlasses. First mate has a scroll of protec- tion from demons. Second mate has three javelins of lightning. Pilot has potion of gold dragon control. (Note that captured usable equipment will be distributed among the captain and the officers.)
Marines/Guards/Overseers, 2nd level fighters (20): AC 7; MV 12^; hp 14 each; #AT 1; D 1-6; AL various, all evil
Sailors (10): AC 10; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 2; #AT 1; D 1-6; ALN or NE
The Voyages of the Ghoul
The Ghoul is a trading vessel, not a war- ship. Thus, its voyages are fairly peaceful and monotonous. This suits everyone on board quite well, for the Ghoul does not earn a profit when she's sitting on the bottom.
The Ghoul sails for two to eight days before there a possibility of landing at a major port. After this time, there is a 596 Chance per day (cumulative) that the ship makes port. The ship remains in any port for one to three days, loading cargo and making repairs. Once every year the ship is dry-docked for one or two weeks while major cleaning and repairs are made. This dry-dock is in Highport.
In Greyhawk, the possible ports of call are Highport, Elredd, Blue, Kro Kerlep, Prymp, Monmurg, and Port Toli. There may be other stops at small towns and vil- lages, but these are only for a few hours.
There is a 5% chance per day that the slaves will be ordered to row at flight or ramming speed. There is a 10% chance per day of encountering a storm.
After Escaping
If the player characters manage to escape, they should have enough information to know that Highport is their next goal. Indeed, if they are clever, they will time their escape upon their arrival in Highport. If they have not done this, they must make their way there.
If the players have not yet figured out they are to go to Highport, you can do one of two things. Either you can hit them over the head with an obvious clue or you can move the location of the Temple of Highport. Obvious clues would include large crates labelled "To Highport"; rumors floating around the dock; a ship captain who reports of many purple-sailed ships docked in Highport; etc.
Alternatively, if the player characters are at some other port on the Wild Coast or the Pomarj, you can simply move the location of the Temple of Highport to that town. This will require a little adjustment work on your part, since the later adventures overland to the stockade of the slave lords must also be altered or repositioned. However, this is a good method to keep those players familiar with the A series modules on their toes!
—
Chapter 2:
The City of Highport
Once a minor jewel of the barons of the Pomarj, Highport was the center of a bus- tling shipping and trade industry. Here, from lands all around the Sea of Gearnat, ships carried their goods. The market squares were filled with foreign merchants. Itinerant priests exhorted the common folk from street corners and well-founded mis- sions built lavish temples.
But that was then, before the dark tide of death and destruction swelled out of the hills—the murderous bands of humanoids. Highport was too rich a target to be ignored and although it resisted, five times repulsing the attackers with bloody losses, it could not stand. On the sixth assault, the gates were sundered and the walls breached. A whirlwind of destruction entered the town. Lightning, fires, and hail mixed with the savage lusts of the attackers. Highport burned and its few remaining people were slaughtered.
But eventually, the chiefs of the tribes met in council. The wisest of them spoke, describing the great victory they had won and praising the warriors of all the clans. But, he went on, their deeds would be dust without profit if they did not occupy Highport and reopen it to menfolk. They must have a place to trade and men to trade with. There was outrage and anger from some on the council, but the old chief was prepared. At his quiet signal, those dissent- ing were removed and chiefs more amenable to his ideas put in their place.
This, then, is the Highport of today. Much remains in ruins, a legacy of the great conquest. But slowly the city is being rebuilt and repopulated. The city is now ruled by a coalition of tribes, split by factions and blood feuds. Over them, binding them together in fear, are the slave lords. Humans have slowly returned: none of the original settlers, but evil men with evil reputations. Half-humans freely mingle with full-blood humans and humanoids. Justice is unknown and the laws are simple, a strong sword arm being judge, jury, and executioner, a dark alley becoming an execution ground.
Still, the lure of trade and profit draws men here. But it is a much different trade
from what it once was—an evil trade deal- ing heavily in misery and hardship. Many slaves pass through this port to stand on the block in its markets. Many come to buy. And all are under the protection of the slave lords.
. Geomorphic ° Highport
No overall map is provided for the city of Highport. The geomorphic city maps should be used to create any section of Highport where the player characters are currently adventuring. Thus, your player characters can visit any section of Highport without the need for you to create a com- plete city map.
Each geomorph is a square section of a typical city block. Each square has a num- ber and each side of the square has a letter. There is no direction (north) printed on any square. Instead, you can choose one side of the square to be north. None of the geomorphs have areas of docks; no encounters are likely to occur on the docks.
On a sheet of graph paper, write the num- ber of the geomorph in a square. On the four sides around it, write the letters of the sides, the top edge of the paper being north. In this way you can build a map out of the geomorphs that make up your city of
Highport.
Key to the Geomorphs
Since the geomorphs of Highport could be used for virtually any area of the city, it is not possible to give them a numbered key. Instead, different types of buildings have been shaded differently on the maps, giving you an indication of the establishment found there. The descriptions below pro- vide the detail you need to handle any events that happen in these areas.
Government: Armory, Barracks, Guild hall, Keep, Pier, Stables.
The building is dingy and ill-cared for. It still shows damage from the Night of the Bloody Spear, when Highport fell to its new
24
masters. Lounging around the main door are a few guards, looking bored and ill- tempered. All the windows are either boarded over or heavily barred. No one looks friendly or happy.
Government buildings house the offices of bureaucrats and the quarters of soldiers. There will always be 2-12 soldiers present (triple this amount for barracks). In addi- tion, offices have 2-8 petty officials or workers.
NPC Types: A, B, D, E Jobs Available: Skilled (20%) Information: A, B, D
Private: granary, house, mill, salting house, shrine, smokehouse, storehouse, temple.
The homes and businesses of Highport are of an unpleasantly squalid sort. Little attention is paid to sanitation or repair. Many of the houses are only half rebuilt, their outsides charred and broken. The ground floors of many are given over to workshops and businesses. Windows open onto the street, the sills loaded with the goods of the workshop. Most of these are of quite ordinary craftsmanship. Most of the other buildings are warehouses near the docks or workhouses. These exhibit a uni- versal tendency toward stench and filth, a sickening thought considering many store stocks of food.
The few temples operating in the city are of a most unpleasant visage. It is clear that any worshippers of good deities practice their faith carefully and in hiding.
NPC Types: A, B, C, D Jobs Available: Menial, common Information; A, B, C
Ruins: deserted, rubble.
The greater part of Old Highport (as the city before the invasion is called) is now in desolate ruins. Much of the population fled or died during the siege and only a portion of the city has been reclaimed. The conquer- ors have little desire to rebuild Highport and the few traders and craftsmen who live here find it easy enough to occupy standing buildings.
Many of the buildings are still standing, more or less, They have not been burned to the ground or razed, but have been empty for several years. Neglect has made them unsound and unsafe. For each hour spent in a deserted building, the characters risk a 1045 chance of a serious accident: a beam giving way, the ceiling collapsing, a wall caving in, etc. All characters in the area (there will always be at least one) must roll their Dexterity or under on 3d6 to avoid the hazard. Those who succeed manage to spring to safety. Those who fail suffer 2-20 points of damage, These collapses are not uncommon and do not attract any attention unless the collapse endangers an occupied building.
Rubble is just that—the remains of totally collapsed or burned buildings. While it is much safer to move about rubble, it does not provide shelter from the elements. There is only a 5% chance every hour that the characters cause masonry to fall or drop into a hidden cellar. A Dexterity roll (as explained above) is allowed and characters who fail suffer 2-12 points of damage.
NPC Types: A, C Jobs Available: none Information: A, C
Services: inn, shop, stable, tavern, emple.
Mostly huddled near the waterfront are
ese densely clustered buildings, Day and ight the inns are alive with the clatter and ink of trenchers and mugs. After dark, the
indows glow warmly while rude and bois-
The patrons of these inns and taverns are hard and cruel lot. Coming from many orts across the waves, they are the vermin f foreign lands, profiting from the cruelty f the slave lords.
Mixed in with the inns are shops and sta- es, relatively quiet affairs compared to the ickedness of the drinking houses. Most are
k. Too many unsavory things inhabit the eets to be safe. The public temples are grim and forebod- structures. Taken over from the pre- ous religions, the orcs, half-orcs and evil mans have installed their own clerics in е once pure structures. Some are places visit willingly. Others attract great owds to their unpleasant spectacles. metimes, at night, dark processions wind
through the streets, disappearing into the black maw of a temple gate. No one stops or questions these processions.
NPC Types: A, B, D Jobs Available: Menial, common Information: A, B
The NPCs . of Highport
Highport is filled with hundreds of peo- ple, far more than can be detailed in single adventure. Furthermore, you wouldn't want them all detailed, since the majority are ordinary and quite dull. So, like the maps of Highport, a simple system is given for quickly creating NPCs.
This system uses the NPC types alluded to in the preceding descriptions. To create an NPC, use the entry matching the NPC letter and generate the information needed. Each NPC has an occupation, which can be found by rolling the appropriate die on the listed column of the NPC Occupations table. The same method is used for person- ality.
Type A (human)
AC 10; МУ 12^; HD 1; hp 1-6; #AT 1; D 1- 4; AL N (1), NE (2-3), LE (4-5), CE (6-8) Occupation: Roll 1410 on Column А Personality: Roll 1d20, no modifiers
Type B (half-orc)
AC 8; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 1-8; /AT 1; D 1-6; AL NE (1-3), LE (4), CE (5-8)
Occupation: Roll 1d10+5 on Column A Personality: Roll 1d10 +10
Type C (orc)
AC 7; MV 9^; HD 1; hp 1-8; #AT 1; D 1-8; AL NE (1-2), LE (3-4), CE (5-7), CN (8) Occupation: Roll 146 +10 on Column A Personality: Roll 1d6 +14
Type D (human 1-3, half-orc 4-5, orc 6)
AC 10 (orc 6); MV 12” (orc 9); Class see Highport NPCs table 1; LVL 2-4; hp 5 per level; FAT 1; D 1-8; AL N (1-2), LE (3-5), CE (6)
Occupation: 1d20 on Column B (50% of all Type D NPCs are agents of the slave lords.) Personality: 2410
Highport NPCs, Table 1 Race/die range Human Half-orc Orc 12 1-3 1-4*
в 2 в е: аа нк. „ББ 5 oo R о 7L EI CU ae № SM YE:
Class F MU C T A BAR C/F C/T C/A F/T F/A
Shaman
5-6
* Treat as chieftain with level equalling Hit Dice,
Type E (1-4 human, 5-6 half-orc)
AC see Highport NPCs Table 2; MV 12”; Lvl 3-12; hp see Highport NPCs Table 2; VAT by character class; D 1-4 or 1-8; ALN (1-2), NE (3-5), LE (6-9), CE (10)
Highport NPCs, Table 2
Class Human  Half-orc AC HP/level
F 1-3 1-3 2 6 MU 4 и 10 3 IL 5 . 10 2 C 6-7 4 + 5 T 8 5 6 à AS 9 6 5 2 MK 10 * by level 2+2 ВАК 11 б 4 9 T/ACR 12 7 E 3 C/F z 8 3 4 C/T z 9 4 3 C/AS ы 10 4 3 Е/Т - 11 2 5 Е/А5 E 12 2 4
Occupation: 1d10 +10 on column B Personality: 2d10
Occupations
Die Roll Column A Column B 1  Shopkeeper Tax collector 2  Hostler City guard 3  Stabler Marine 4 Derelict City guard 5 Craftsman Slaver 6 Sailor Petty bureaucrat 7 Bodyguard Petty bureaucrat 8 City guard Executioner 9 City guard Spy 10 Thug City guard 11  Templeguard Sergeant of the guard 12 Tax collector Captain of the guard 13  Slaver Master crafts- man 14 Messenger Councilman 15  Outland war- rior Slave Merchant 16  Outland war- rior Ship captain Hu 2 Ship captain 18 = Magistrate 19 ^" Engineer 20 * Minor slave lord (8th level or greater) Personality Die
Roll General Personality 1 Helpful and concerned 2 Honest and open
3 Cooperative, but unwilling to take risks
4 A wheeler-dealer, willing to help only for profit
5 Cringing and nervous, afraid of consequences
6 Moody and sad, fatalistic in out- look
7 Outgoing and pleasant but non- committal
8 Petty and vain, impressed by his own power
9 Vengeful and quick-tempered
10 Dim-witted
11 Officious and unadventurous, a great believer in rules
12 Solitary, dislikes disturbances
13 Nervous and jumpy, given to overreacting
14 Calm, efficient, often using own initiative
15 Obedient and unimaginative
16 Pent-up, outwardly calm but inwardly raging
17 Dour, grim, a strong believer in
hardship and suffering
18 Ill-tempered, cruel and vengeful
19 Unrefined and savage, but not stu- pid
20 Has difficulty suppressing blood- thirsty impulses
Jobs Available
It is likely that when the player characters first enter Highport they will need money and equipment. The best way to get some is to get a job. The description of each build- ing type lists the general class of work avail- able there. These are explained below with a listing of the types of work (and the pay rate) for jobs within that class.
Menial Jobs: These are the worst type of work available. They pay 2-12 copper pieces a day. As an inducement, many offer a place to sleep (the manger, etc.) and per- haps very poor quality food.
stableboy spitboy apprentice to a trade fish cleaner
rat catcher common laborer laundry man gravedigger wood сһоорег waterboy stevedore
Common Jobs: These are jobs which, while not requiring special training, are bet- ter paying and less taxing than menial work. In addition, some may be jobs which have special requirements or risks. These pay 1- 12 silver pieces a day.
guardsman soldier
tavern or inn help household servant groom
fisherman
cook
teamster bodyguard
sailor
Skilled Jobs: These are jobs which require special knowledge to perform, either train- ing in a skill or special abilities which only the character can perform, Sometimes the skill is по more than being able to read and write. This also includes any job where the character's class is an important factor. The amount of pay is highly variable and must
26
be negotiated with the prospective employer, but a minimum of 2 gold pieces a day can be expected.
any skilled craft officer of the guard scribe
clerk
navigator
artist
specialized bodyguard herald
discreet messenger foreman
artillerist
Information
While living in Highport, the player char- acters will certainly want to gain informa- tion about the slave lords and any prisoners passing through the city. Each building entry lists the type of information the char- acters may be able to get. Of course, whether the player characters learn any- thing depends on who they meet and how they treat him. Obviously, agents of the slave lords are not likely to talk freely to strangers. Likewise, a derelict may ramble on, finally revealing some interesting fact he has observed or overheard.
The information is divided into types, explained below. The exact wording is not given, since there are so many questions and so many NPCs. Instead, decide what the player characters need (or don't need) to know and bring it out in a conversation with an NPC. The personality of the NPC will help determine what you should say and how you should say it.
What the Characters Need to Know
Before the player characters tackle the Temple of Highport, they need to know the following facts.
a) The slaves are taken to a secret process- ing center somewhere in the city,
b) The Temple of Highport is this process- ing center.
c) The location of the Temple of Highport.
In addition, the following facts can be
added if the player characters dig deeper or pose their questions carefully.
d) Slave dealers visit the processing center to examine the stock. They enter and leave by the main gate.
€) There is a secret entrance to the Temple. f) The location of the secret entrance.
g) A quick idea of the inhabitants and defenses of the temple.
h) Recent shipments of slaves included a group which came from the Safeton area. One of the slaves matches Dame Gold's general description.
Information Types
A: This is common information known to most long-time inhabitants of Highport. Most people know that slaves are shipped through Highport, that the city is under the protection of the slave lords, and that the activities of the slave lords is generally quite secretive. Too much questioning along these lines make the NPC suspicious. Those whose living depends upon the slave lords will report their suspicions. Those who indi- rectly earn a living from the slave lords (which is most everyone else) will refuse to talk further and, if pressed, report their sus- picions, Naturally, other common informa- tion can be gained—the location of a known building, the name of an official, etc.
B: This is specialized information, gener- ally known only to people who need to know. It is not truly secret, but it is not ban- died about. Specialized information includes the dates of ship arrivals, contents f most cargoes, the activities of the city uard, the name of a ship captain, the cur- nt prices on the slave market, the current lection of slaves, the procedures for regis- ering as a slave merchant, the next open arket date, etc. Most of this information is own by people in government or bureau-
ay be needed. Persistent questioning bout one area or topic arouses their suspi- ions. They then refuse to cooperate and robably report their suspicions to others.
vern patrons, sailors, and even derelicts ten have bits of this type of information. characters may be able to learn nearly ything they need to know. However, ere is a catch. Before revealing anything, ll percentile dice. The number that comes is the percentage of accuracy concerning
the information. Thus, a 48 would indicate that about half of what the character's are told is accurate. The remaining information may be pure fancy, confused facts, or out of date. You should decide what is true and what is false,
D: The last type of information is sensi- tive information. This has the huge advan- tage of being accurate and vital to the player characters mission. Sensitive information can answer any type of question the player characters may have, provided they go to the right source, Thus, the Master of the Ports office would be able to produce answers about slave shipments— their arriv- als, cargoes, and who delivered —but could reveal little about the movements of slaves once ashore.
This type of information is very hard to get. It is only known by high-level and important members of the local government and agents of the slave lords. They do not freely talk about this information. It can be obtained by theft, trickery, or threat. Theft is the most effective, although risky. Trick- ery requires careful planning and acting on the part of the player characters. It is very hard to do properly. Threat is the worst method. More than likely the person threat- ened will lie and the characters will have no way to test the truth of his statements. Some trickery may be required,
Special Encounters
In addition to just wandering around Highport looking for information and work, the player characters can also have a number of special encounters. Each encounter has a purpose—to gain informa- tion, money, or equipment. You should use each as you see fit.
The Thugs
Since it is likely the player characters will enter Highport with little in the way of equipment, normal and magical, you can use this encounter to give them a chance to become properly outfitted.
The encounter begins on a night when the player characters are in an inn or tavern, whether they are customers or employees. Since early evening, one table in particular has been liberally carousing and celebrat- ing. The patrons are a wicked looking band of five cutthroats. They are dirty, smelly, and loud. Since they came in, they have acted as if they own the place and from the
27
amount of money they have thrown around, they probably could buy it. Rudely they push the other customers around. Hands go for hilts only to reconsider at the last instant. There is no doubt that these customers are tough. Several times they have boasted of the plunder they took from the towns of the north. It is clear that their haul was large. They brag of the treasures they found hidden away and claimed. They even tell of their horrible crimes, gloating over their own cruelty, On and on into the night they carouse, drinking heavily.
There is no doubt that these characters are black-hearted villains, perhaps not wor- thy of any compassion. Their night of cele- bration may have also weakened their normal caution. À group of brave adventur- ers (if a little desperate) might be able to avenge the poor victims of these cutthroats. However, attacking the thugs in the tavern will not succeed. A general brawl will quickly break out among the 15 patrons of the establishment and shortly after that 20 guardsmen arrive to break up the riot. They will not be gentle.
Well after midnight, however, the row- dies gather their gear and leave, staggering out the front door. Their rude songs echo and fade down the street,
If the player characters follow carefully, they eventually have an opportunity to ambush the villains in a quiet, dark alley. You must decide if the player characters have made adequate preparations. If the player characters are well-concealed and ready, they gain automatic surprise and ini- tiative on the first round of combat. There- after, they have a +1 bonus on all subsequent initiative rolls. Furthermore, the brutes are unable to coordinate a unified defense, The battle should end in quick vic- tory for the player characters.
However, shortly after the player charac- ters defeat the thugs, a second group of cut- throats arrives on the scene. These fellows have had the same idea as the player characters—to make a quick profit bush- whacking the celebrants. The presence of the player characters has thrown their plans out of whack, but is not likely to stop them.
The player characters notice this new group blocking both ends of the alley, two men at either end. They advance hesitantly, uncertain of their new opposition.
The player characters can negotiate with them. There is а slim chance they can be frightened away, especially if the player characters act boldly and defeated the first group with ease. However, it is more likely that the thieves demand a share of the
player character's spoils. If an agreement is reached, the thieves honor the terms. After all, it is better for them to make a profit without having to do anything than to risk their fortunes and lives for everything.
Celebrating Cutthroats
(Underlined items are not used by the
NPC's. They are part of the treasure
recently gained and their powers are as yet
unknown. Due to their condition, these
NPCs all have a -3 penalty on their chances
to hit.)
Hergist, óth level fighter: AC 2; MV 12^; hp 36; #AT 1; D 1-8*2; AL CE Equipment: chain mail, shield *2, long- sword *2, brooch of shielding
Kermail, 3d level fighter: AC 6; MV 12^; hp 14; #AT 1; D 1-8; AL CE Equipment: bracers of defense AC 6, ring of water walking
Alexander, 5th level fighter: AC -1; MV 12^; hp 23; #AT 1; D 1-8; AL CE Equipment: plate mail +4, potion of clairvoyance
Villehardouin, 5th level thief: AC 7; MV 12"; hp 25; #AT 1; D 1-6 +1; AL NE; due to his condition he is unable to effec- tively use any thief abilities but Backstab x3
Equipment: spear + 1, scale тај! +1
Notkard, 4th level magic-user: AC 4; MV 12^; hp 14; ZAT 1; D 1-4; AL LE; due to the carousing, Notkard's memory is a bit cloudy. He can only use the following spells: affect normal fires, enlarge
Equipment: bracers of defense AC 4, scroll of ВівЬу5 interposing hand, shatter, geas, and cloudkill
Thieves
There are four thieves present, including one leader.
Leader, Sth level: AC 5; MV 12”; hp 23; #AT 1; D 1-8; AL LE; Backstab x3
Thieves, 3d level (x3): AC 7; MV 12”; hp 9, 7, 10; #AT 1; D 1-8; AL NE; Backstab x3
Thief #1: sword *2 (IQ 14; AL CN; detect sloping passage, detect gems; Ego 5)
Thief #2: leather armor +1
Thief #3: stone of controlling earth elemen- tals
Feodor
The second special encounter characters can have is with Feodor, the cousin of one of the galley slaves. Feodor is attempting to find the men who kidnapped his cousin and thereby find his cousin. The trail has led him
to Highport. But here his luck has ended. Although he knows much, he has been unable to get any closer to his goal.
The player characters have to make an effort to find Feodor by discreetly asking around for him. The characters should have to ask around quite а bit before they are suc- cessful. Each time the characters ask, they have a 5% cumulative chance of success— finding a person who knows Feodor and where he can be found. Thus, after checking with four different people, the characters have a 20% chance of success. To keep this feeling realistic, you may want to make the characters do some legwork during this search. Replies such as, "No, but you should go talk to Arrezzio at the fish-market. He knows a lot of people,” or "Well, let's see, my memory just isn't that good anymore...”
In addition to finding Feodor, there is a chance that the player characters will be found by an agent of the slave lords. There is a 10% chance of this happening each time a person is questioned. This is not cumula- tive, the chance is always 10%. If noticed, the player characters will be followed from then on by the agent, who makes reports on their activities, Unless he is discovered and dealt with, the player characters will be unable to deceive the slave lords about their true intentions. While this will not prevent the characters from completing their mis- sion, it can make the task much harder.
Feodor is currently living in the Barnacle Rock Inn, near the waterfront. This is a sad and run down building, barely decent accomodations. Since arriving in Highport, Feodor has gradually gone from bad to worse. He has been unable to find his cousin or the kidnappers and his funds are nearly exhausted. Despair and fear have set in.
Living in the midst of the enemy has taken its toll on him. He now drinks heavily and is seldom sober. Neither is he clean or attrac- tive. When the characters find him, he is lit- tle more than a bum. Indeed, he has sunk to such depths that he refuses to help the player characters unless paid.
Still, he does have good information. He knows where the slaves are taken upon their arrival in Highport (the temple) and has scouted the area around it, finding the secret entrances. He knows the temple is manned by humans, half-orcs, and orcs, although he is uhaware of the aspis or any dispositions within the walls. He has watched carefully as the shipments of slaves have been unloaded and remembers seeing a woman matching Dame Gold's description. He is positive she was taken to the holding center. Finally, he remembers seeing an unusual
28
flask taken to the temple, one that matches the description of the flask formerly held by the player characters.
Although a good deal of his spirit can be restored by meeting allies in his quest, it is many weeks before he once again is ready to take up his quest, It should be clear that the player characters do not have that long, and that he will be of questionable help if they do wait. Still, when they depart, observant characters may note a strong positive change in his outlook. It seems that he may once again get his life back together.
Slaver Agent
This fellow is a small, wiry man with a youthful face and a generally cheerful expression. His hair is black, lightly streaked with gray and balding on top. He is of medium height and weight. He carries a dagger openly on his belt and two smaller blades, one hidden in each boot. He wears a light suit of chain mail +1 under his cloth- ing. Although not a thief, he is particularly good at trailing people and will not lose the characters unless they specifically try to ditch him.
Agent: АСЗ; MV 12”; HD 1; hp 3; #AT 1; D 1-4; ALN
Stalman Klim and Edralve
During the time the player characters are in Highport, Stalman Klim's attention is drawn elsewhere. He is not able to monitor their movements or give them special aid. However, if the player characters run afoul of the Highport government, Klim's atten- tion is drawn to their plight through agents he has in the jail. He ensures they are not executed and are eventually released, after perhaps paying a heavy fine. His agents let the player characters know that a "friend" has arranged their release and that they should be grateful. Indeed, this "friend" would be greatly appreciative if they would investigate the temple of Highport.
However, pulling so many strings also alerts Edralve's agents and they report back to her. She begins investigations about the player characters, Thereafter, there is a 20% chance the characters are discovered by her agents for each day they remain in Highport. Once discovered, she, too begins attempting to manipulate the player charac- ters.
The temple of Highport stands, not surprisingly, on the outskirts of the city of Highport. To casual inspection, the temple compound appears to be nothing but a collection of ruins, a legacy of when the Pomarj Horde swept over the city. However, those not taken in by first impressions notice the appearance is more calculated than fact. Despite the damage, the outer walls are strong and solid. Constructed of large blocks of closely fitted stone, the place looks like it could withstand a small siege. Some of the buildings inside show signs of recent repair. Nearby buildings have been carefully pulled down, giving those in the temple a clear view of the surrounding neighborhood, No one lives in this area, but there are rutted tracks leading to the main gate.
If the characters take time to observe the emple, they notice several things. Guards patrol the walls at infrequent intervals. ese are small groups of humanoids or umans bored with their duties. At other imes parties on foot or horseback arrive at Pither the stable door or the main gate. ese visitors hail the guards and announce hat they have business at the temple; the buards then let them in. These visitors ppear to be either merchants with guards br parties of adventurers. At night the ards are more numerous, and creatures an be seen fluttering up from within the ompound and flving off into the night. No aves or slaving parties are observed in the me that the characters are in the area.
otes for the Dungeon Master
A random encounter table with attached planations is included before each key for he upper and lower sections of the temple. efore each of the section keys is also а andering Monsters Roster. This roster is eant to limit the number of creatures of ch type that may be encountered by the гу. Whenever an encounter occurs, the
Chapter 3: The Temple of Highport
DM should note the number of monsters slain (if any) alongside the listing for that particular creature. Once the maximum number given is reached, no more of that particular type of monster is encountered. If characters should leave the temple and return later, intelligent wandering monsters (the aspis, for example) will generally rein- force their numbers and increase their patrols for extra security. How many replacements arrive and how long this takes is left to the DM's discretion.
The players or the DM must also decide which of several entrances will be used to enter the temple and its sewers. It is possible for characters to pose as slave merchants and be admitted through the front gate, but this will place them under the close observa- tion by the guards inside. Unless known and trusted, characters will have their weapons taken away from them and possibly even have their alignment checked through the use of a spell. Those living within these walls are not stupid and won't act or fight in such a way. The humans, orcs, half-orcs, and aspis are experienced and have dealt with intruders before. They will therefore be on their guard against many common tricks that might be used to deceive them. Furthermore, they will learn from experi- ence with the party, will guard entrances not guarded before, and even set traps in so- called "explored areas" if necessary.
The scope of the temple (and the city of Highport) is not limited to what is pre- sented. More detail can be added to the vari- ous blocks of Highport, transforming it into a wild, dangerous, but useful port of call for bold adventurers. The sewers are not com- plete and may be expanded by those who wish more underground adventure.
Wall Encounters
Encounter occurs on 1 in 6, check each turn. If encounter occurs, roll 1d8.
2-8 ghouls; see below
2-12 zombies; see below
2-12 skeletons; see below
orcs (special); see below
1-10 stirges
1-4 harpies
29
CX Dr:
Ghouls: There is a 50% chance that the ghouls are accompanied by 1-3 ghasts. There is also a 1 in 4 chance that they are returning from the city, carrying their foul meals with them. In such a case, they will be encountered climbing down the outer wall. Otherwise they are merely making a patrol and will ignore any creature on the ground outside the temple. They have befriended the cleric and will not attack her or any of the orcs.
Zombies and skeletons: These have been created strictly to patrol the walls. They ignore any activity on the ground outside the temple. They will not attack orcs or the cleric of the temple.
Orcs: Orcs attack intruders on sight. The exact composition of any wall guard of orcs is as follows (roll 1d4):
1 2-8 orcs armed with short swords and light crossbows.
2 2-12 orcs armed as above and led by a 4th level half-orc fighter.
3 2-8 orcs armed with halberds led by a 5th level half-orc fighter and a cleric/assassin (levels 4/5).
4 2 half-orc fighters (levels 2-4), а half-orc fighter /thief (levels 1-3 each), and 2 half- orc cleric/fighters (levels 2-5 each).
Temple Description
There are two main types of construction in the temple compound. The rooms and passages that are still intact show signs of a great fire at some time in the recent past, probably when Highport was over- run, The walls, originally beamed and plastered, are now scorched and sooty. Small burned sections show the beams and stone behind them. The walls are 9 feet high, and large sections of plaster have fallen from the ceiling, sometimes even showing the sky above. None of these openings are big enough for even a gnome to fit through.
The other major section is the temple proper. This large, three-story structure was originally built of stone blocks with an arched ceiling. The fire gutted and
ruined the upper floors of the structure. The original roof has collapsed, and sec- tions of its supports lie in ruins near the base of the temple walls, A new roof has been built onto what remains of the tem- ple from wooden beams and the fallen stone. Ceilings are 35 feet high unless otherwise noted. The walls are decaying and pitted stone. The floors are stone, dirty and gray with ash and dust.
Those areas of the temple compound that are not part of the temple, a room, passage, or one of the courtyards, are ruins. These areas are the remains of several totally burned buildings that once lined the walls of the tem- ple compound. Weeds grow up through bro- ken beams, skeletons, and tumbled blocks. Dust and ash blow through the air. The dashed lines on the map indicate walls that still stand one to three stories in height, with doors and windows, but no roofs or floors. Throughout this area the following special encounter table should be used.
Ruin Encounters
Encounter occurs on 1 in 6, check each turn. If encounter occurs, roll 1d6.
1-2 orcs (special); see below
3 1-2basilisks
4 2-8 ghouls
5 wight
6 humans (special); see below
Orcs: When orcs are encountered in the ruins, 3-18 of them are gathered around a small fire. There are also chances for the fol- lowing extra creatures to be present;
10% human slaver (fighter, levels 5-8). 25% ogre, 1-3.
50% half-orc fighter (levels 2-5).
30% half-orc fighter/cleric (levels 4-6/4).
In addition to the fire, there are 0-5 crude shelters constructed around the campsite. Each shelter contains 1-100 gp.
Humans: Humans are often found in the ruins, carrying out business with the orcs and half-orcs who dwell there. Often they are slave merchants stopping to do business. Such groups have a fighter of 8th or 9th level and 3-10 1st level fighters. There is a 50% chance that a cleric of 6th or 7th level is present. If no cleric is with the group, there is a 75% chance that a magic-user of 5th or 6th level accompanies the band. In addition to the humans, 1-4 half-orc fighter/thieves (levels 4-6/3-5) act as interpreters. The humans try to deal with the party first,
appealing to them as fellow men. They are not interested in protecting the inhabitants of the temple. In a three-sided battle, they will only fight to save themselves and escape.
Wandering Monster Roster
Whenever a wandering monster is slain, the listings below should be adjusted to show the number of creatures of that type remaining. Characters may never encounter more wandering monsters than the amounts given here. Except in noted instances, the death of wandering monsters will not affect the appearance of placed encounters.
10 Aspis
2 Basilisks"
10 Crocodile
6 Dopplegangers
6 Ghasts
20 Ghouls
Unlimited Green Slime
5 Half-orc cleric/assassins 15 Half-orc fighters
7 Half-orc fighter/clerics 5 Half-orc fighter/thieves 6 Harpies
Unlimited Giant, rats 20 Skeletons
40 Slaves
15 Slavers
30 Stirges
5 Giant, weasels
1 Wights**
20 Zombies
* Remove the appropriate number of basi- lisks from encounter area 10, Temple Level.
** No wight will be encountered in the Inner Courtyard (area 9 if rolled on the Wander- ing Monster Table.
Key to the Temple Level
1. Secret door and spike trap 1a. Outside entrance:
At the end of this 10-foot-long passage is the back of an obvious secret door. Con- structed to look as if it were part of the wall to those on the other side, no
attempt has been made to disguise the presence of a door from this side. Light from the other side faintly outlines the door and reveals a handle.
The door is trapped from the opposite side so that any person who opens it triggers the trap. This trap consists of a spiked, spring bar beside the door, bent back so that when released it snaps across the doorway at chest height with a great deal of force. Any character standing in the doorway takes 3-18 points of damage. If a thief suc- cessfully detects traps, he or she discovers the trigger rope on the other side of the door by peering through one of the cracks. This rope may be cut and the bar released with a dagger inserted in the crack. The bar then smashs into the panel of the door and does 1-6 points of damage to any characters pressed against the door.
1b. Inside exit:
About halfway down the hallway is a wooden board, crudely but securely fas- tened to the wall at one end. The other end has nails, spikes, glass and other jag- ged items stuck into it. The board is bent back towards the wall and held in place
by a rope fastened to a pin. Another горе is connected to this pin and runs forward along the wall to a hook set in the wall. This hook is in about the same place the bar would strike if released.
This trap covers the secret door to the outside. If the rope is cut, the bar is released to swing into the wall. Anyone standing in the arc of the bar takes 3-18 points of dam- age from the blow. If the board strikes the wall, it cracks the wood and plaster panel there to reveal a secret door and a passage beyond.
2. Bricked-up room
This room is burned and partially destroyed, much like others throughout the temple. The floor is crowded with debris, making movement difficult. Sag- ging and collapsed as it is, the ceiling still appears to be sound. The east wall is dif- ferent from the others, showing signs of recent construction and upkeep. Over- all, this wall appears to be stoutly built.
This room is empty of monsters or trea- sure; no useful item will be found. The east wall is maintained in good condition to pro- tect the rest of the compound from the basi- lisks that live on the other side.
3. Collapsed guard room
The wooden door to this room is charred with several boards missing and other planks obviously weakened. The han- ев, hinges, and other metal fittings are half melted, soundly jamming the door shut. The room beyond, as seen through the holes, is severely burned, its furnish- ings buried and ruined beyond recogni- tion. The ceiling has collapsed for the most part, revealing another chamber on the second floor. About 5 feet of the ceil- ing still remains around the walls of the room, forming a narrow, jagged ledge. The floor is littered with beams, plaster, | ash, and unknown pieces of junk. The air is filled with the odor of rot.
The door cannot be forced open, although three solid blows with a mace or axe will knock an opening large enough for а man to step through. Likewise, a character
plate mail who throws his or her body peainst the door will smash through imme- Hiately, stumbling to the floor beyond (the
ext round for that character must be spent recovering). Hiding on the ledge above this room are ight ghouls and two ghasts. When someone
ters the room, the ghouls and ghasts leap
om above, howling; they surprise a party па 1-4 (d6). Once a character has been par- lyzed by а ghoul or ghast, the monster con- inues to attack that character and utomatically hits unless distracted by omeone else (i.e. attacked). Ghoul paraly- s lasts for 3-12 turns.
On the ledge of the room above are six 00 gp gems and a potion of fire resistance.
bhouls: AC 6; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 8 each; #AT 3; D 1-3/1-3/1-6; touch causes paralysis; immune to sleep and charm spells.
hasts: АС 4; MV 15”; HD 4; hp 24, 27; ЖАТ 3; D 1-4/1-4/1-8; touch causes paralysis, stench causes save vs. poison or be -2 on ^to hit" rolls; immune to sleep and charm spells.
. Treacherous floor
At the top of the stairs are the remains of a door, beyond which is а room. The loor here is almost entirely gutted. Thirty feet below is the gray stone of the
Hoorway on the opposite side of the ‘oom. Any exits from the first floor or he cellar have been completely
filled with rubble. There are three possi- ble ways to walk across the space: a charred and crumbling section of floor clings to the left wall; a narrow pathway of fallen bearns stretches across the cen- ter like a bridge: and a relatively sound section of Hoor, only burned at the edge, runs along the right wall. All three paths are accessible from this end and lead to the doorway on the opposite side,
If the crumbling ledge is probed, large pieces of burned wood crash to the floor, If any character steps on the ledge, it collapses beneath them.
The center path is narrow. When stepped on, it wobbles slightly, plaster and ash fall, and the wood creaks and groans. As unsafe as it seems, the path is sturdy and may be crossed without falling.
The ledge to the right is sound and solid. However, when the lead character reaches the halfway point, his or her weight causes a loose beam underfoot to shift. The wall beside the character collapses inward, knocking him or her off the ledge. If charac- ters are roped together when this happens, each figure after the first must roll a success- ful bend bars/lift gates to stay on the ledge. Characters who fail are pulled over the side. The fallen wall blocks this ledge, À fall to the cellar does 3-18 points of damage.
5a. Alcove
А small alcove set along the center of the passage has three barrels in it. These bar-
rels are sealed and dusty. The wooden staves are stained a dark brown.
The tops of these barrels may be opened by smashing them with a mace or axe; one round is required for each barrel. Inside each is a dark, thin, sour-smelling liquid. This is actually nothing but old soured wine, more vinegar than alcohol. The bar- rels may be rolled down the hall if unopened, or manhandled by two people if the top has been removed.
5b. Sundew's lair
This room is almost bare except for the stairs on one wall and the door on the opposite wall. Five feet from this door is
a mound of tarry looking rags. Many flies buzz about the room, and the air has a sweet honey smell.
31
The mound is actually a giant sundew that attacks any character within 5 feet of it. Having sprouted roots, it doesn't move from its position and uses its sticky tentacles to protect it from any attacks it can. The vinegar at 5a may be used to dissolve its glue; each barrel will coat half the floor space of the room. If the barrels are released at the top of the stair, they will be broken by the time they reach the floor. Around the base of the sundew, hidden under its glue are 500 gp, three gems (500 gp, 1,000 gp, and 10 gp) and a ring of spell storing (friends, shatter, jump).
Sundew: AC 7; МУ 1"; HD 8; hp 48; ҒАТ 6; D 1-3 plus special—acid damage on 1 per tendril per round, suffocation on a 20, -1 on ^to hit" per 3 hits; half damage from fire and missile weapons.
6. Stable
This wooden building is in good condi- tion. In it is a row of stalls for horses, three of which are occupied at the moment, Tack hangs from the walls, and three saddles are piled near the double
doors. Piles of hay line the walls oppo- site the stalls, and several open sacks of grain are beside them. Four humans are sitting on the sacks, their short swords thrust into the hay. A ladder near the sin- gle door leads to a loft.
The four humans are actually half-orcs who are assigned to work here as stable hands and guards. One of the four has a horn concealed under his cloak; at the first sign of trouble he attempts to call for help by blowing on it. If the alarm is raised, more half-orcs (according to the numbers found under the random encounter tables) arrive in 2-5 rounds.
The loft over the stable is filled with loose hay and more stacks of grain. Hiding among these is a doppleganger. He will pose as a half-orc, orc, human merchant, fighter, or slave according to the situation, and attempt to join any party that defeats the half-orcs, probably claiming to be an escaped slave. If allowed to do so, he will attempt to lead a member of the party away from the others, then slay that character and take his or her place.
The half-orcs each carry 20 gp on their persons. Otherwise there is nothing of value in the stables except for the horses and the saddles.
been installed. These stairs lead to the dirt plants have become animated through the tunnels that eventually wend towards the will of the goddess whose temple this was. aspis nest and room 21 on the underground Although unwilling to interfere more key.
directly than this, she has made the garden unsafe for all who enter. Roll a dó each turn that the characters move through this area. On a 1-3, an encounter has occurred. Roll on the following table (d8) to determine what happens:
Half-orcs: AC 7; MV 9*; HD 1; hp 8 each; #AT 1; D by short sword or 1-6
Doppleganger: AC 5; MV 9*; HD 4; hp 20; #AT 1; D 1-12; surprise on 1-4; immune to sleep and charm spells, saves as a 10th level fighter
they dislike the plants that grow here. These
9. Inner courtyard
7. Stonecutter's shed
This large courtyard contains mostly dust and grass, although several large trees grow at one end. Near the edges of the yard are large blocks that have tum-
This ramshackle building is cluttered
with a variety of tools and junk. There 1
are hammers, chisels, axe handles, slabs of stone, and warped boards. The walls are covered with many different types of
holy symbols, some of evil and some of good religions. Most of these look as if they have been pegged or nailed in place. Crouched around a dim and sputter- ing lantern are six orcs, nervously finger- ing their halberds and glancing about.
. Branches and weeds bend and move,
blocking the path behind the last person in the party. To return the way they came, a party must cut through the over- growth.
. A tree branch strikes once at a random
party member. It attacks as a 2 HD mon- ster, causing 1-6 points of damage if it hits
Р The branch of a bush attempts to pick-
bled from the walls of the temple and its
outbuildings. These ruined areas look like they will provide adequate cover for any man-sized creature who wishes to hide in them.
Hidden in this pile of debris is a wight who stalks this courtyard. The half-orcs have managed to appease him through the
regular offerings of victims, whether they be human, half-orc, orc, or otherwise, and the cleric of the temple has formed a shaky alli- ance with the creature. Consequently, the wight seldom roams outside the area of this courtyard. However, it considers any who enter the area to be fair game. Should the party be pursued into this area, their foes will halt outside and prevent the party from returning the way they came, hoping to watch the sport. Hidden in the debris are 2,000 cp, 1,000 ep, and a pair of gauntlets of dexterity. Wight: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 4 +4; hp27; #АТ 1; D 1-4 plus energy drain; silver or mag-
pocket a member of the party. The chance of success is 6596. Failure by greater than 20% indicates that the char- acter has noticed the attempt. A small
The six orcs have been ordered to stand guard here to prevent any intruders from entering the compound, All the exits are barred, but the doors are weak and easily item, randomly determined, is taken broken. The orcs do not like this duty and from the character. are plainly terrified of the nearby cemetery, 4, 2.8 giant worker ants (АС 3; MV 18”; as they do not like the idea of becoming vic- HD 2; hp 9 each, AAT 1; D 1-6) attack the tims of some undead creature. To prevent party. this they have gathered any and every holy 5, Weeds attempt to entwine the legs of the symbol available, including those of their characters. Failure to save vs. paralyza- victims, and hung them up. Nonetheless, tion results in entanglement. The weeds they are apprehensive. № surprised, their hold characters until they are freed by first thought is to flee (if possible), If they others or killed by a wandering monster.
cannot get away, they will fight ata *20n б, 2-5 ghouls (AC 6; MV 9”; HD 2, ҒАТ 3; their chances "to hit" out of sheer ferocious
D 1-3/1-3/1-6, touch causes paralysis) : i panic. Each orc has 5 gp and a silver holy attack the party. x aa + symbol of some religion, worth 40 gp. 7. Weeds and bushes bend to block the way 10. Basilisks' den
ahead of the party. Further progress must
Ores (6): AC 6; MV 9”; HD 1; hp be done by cutting (MV 1^)
4,3,6,7,1,4; #AT 1; D 1-10 by halberd There are no visible doors to this area; in
8. Cemetery
This open area was obviously once the cemetery for the temple compound. Now itis overgrown with weeds, gnarled bushes and dying trees. Stone markers and small crypts can be seen at some points through the overgrowth. Paths twist through the cemetery; some show
signs of recent use. Everything seems gray in color here—the grass is gray- green, the soil dusty gray, the stone markers brown and gray. A feeling of oppression hangs over the entire ceme- tery.
This area is avoided by the orcs and half- orcs unless they come in large numbers, for
8. A tree falls across the path, attempting to strike a random party member. The tree attacks once as an 8 HD monster and does 4-24 points if it hits.
Should characters attempt movement off the path, the plants become very active to stop them. Weeds entangle them every step of the way, and branches constantly strike at members of the party. If the characters become extremely destructive (i.e. cutting, chopping, or burning), they discover that trees have moved to block all the exits. Each tree has 60 hit points, attacks as a 10 HD monster, and is able to attack four times per round; D 1-6 each. Three trees guard each exit.
There is a large crypt at the center of the cemetery with a heavy iron door in the front. The insides of this crypt have been removed, and a staircase going down has
32
fact, openings that might once have been windows or collapses in the wall have been repaired and maintained. Now a wall about 10 feet high faces the inner courtyard.
Inside this area is a collapsed building. Several of the inner walls stand, broken and irregular at their tops, but there are no floors or ceilings anywhere inside the walls of this area.
Along the wall near the outer edge of the compound are a large number of chipped, cracked, and broken statues. These are in many different poses: peo- ple crouching, kneeling, praying, defiant or twisted into broken positions. They are all of exquisite workmanship and may have once been part of the furnish- ings of the previous temple.
This area actually contains two basilisks ho have been walled off from the rest of фе compound by the halí-orcs. This area is Че to punish traitors and enemies (pro-
ded the half-orcs don't get carried away d kill them first). Many humans attempt- ille to rescue their kin have also wound up Here. Since the area is somewhat large, there Ша chance that the basilisks will not be in Ше area of any intruders who enter. For егу round spent in the pen there isa 1 in 6 ance of encountering one of the basilisks. ipud noises are sure to draw these creatures their source. These creatures have no Pasure.
Whsilisks (2): AC 4; MV 6"; HD 6+1; hp 45,33; #AT 1; D 1-10; gaze turns to stone
. Burned dormitory
is room is charred, burned, and in a
rom place to place, leaving tracks in the uddy ash.
This room is not used by the denizens of e temple as it is considered unsafe. Careful arching reveals crushed bunks and arred bits of simple furniture (stools, bles, etc.) but nothing of value to the ty. The room is dangerous, and any ikjor disturbance of its structure (knocking les in walls, clearing away beams, etc.) is ble to cause another collapse (б to 15 feet {radius from the point of the disturbance) ich does 3-18 points of damage to all thin that area, There is à 1 in 6 chance at any character injured by a collapse will pinned under a beam and will need help Д be freed
р. False slaver's lair
e walls of this chamber are lined with enty human slaves, their ankles and 'rists shackled and manacled together. Dn the same wall as the door can be seen e shadow of a large ogrelike figure randishing a whip. Guttural commands nd pitiful screams can be heard. Ateach rack of the whip, the slaves cringe and ower. A trap door is set in the floor at e far end of the narrow room.
This room is actually a trap prepared by the half-orcs to catch those who would try to deceive the slavers. Whenever a new buyer comes to the temple, he or she is first taken to this room and his or her reactions carefully watched. Only after several visits, when the half-orcs feel sure that the buyer is what he or she says he or she is, will they take the person to the actual slave pens.
Note that if the player characters are able to reach this chamber without raising any alarm or making any noise, the ambush is not prepared. Instead the characters find a scene of 20 ragged half-orcs, weapons at their sides, throwing dice and arguing over wagers.
12a.
The twenty slaves are actually half-orcs whose appearance is good enough to pass for humans. Seventeen of these are normal half-ores armed with short swords carefully hidden under their ragged robes. Near the trap door are two half-orc assassins hiding +1 swords and wearing disguised leather armor. Near the door is the leader, a half-orc fighter/cleric armed with a +1 short sword (NSA), who will attempt to stand back and cast spells. He has the following spells mem- orized:
First level: bless, (x2) command, cure light wounds, darkness
Second level: hold person, silence 15(FM) radius
The shackles and manacles worn by the "slaves" are false and quickly drop off at a moment's notice. They are cleverly con- structed; only a thief examining them can detect they are false. Once the party is well into the room, the half-orcs rise, pull their short swords, and leap to the attack. While the party is occupied with them, the assas- sins attempt to hide in shadows and then backstab, not assassinate, at the first oppor- tunity. The half-orcs and the assassins each have 1-6 gp on their persons. The fighter/ cleric has a ring worth 500 gp.
The trap door at the end of the narrow room is locked from this side. It leads to the aspis food storage chamber (level 2, room 7).
Half-orcs: AC 10; MV 9"; HD 1; hp 6 each; #АТ 1; D 1-6
Half-orc assassins: AC 8; MV 9”; Level 5; hp 23,25; #AT 1; D by weapon type; backstab triple damage
Half-orc fighter/cleric: AC 7 due to Dexter- ity; MV 9"; L 5/4; hp 32; #AT 1; D by weapon type
33
12b.
In this small alcove are three orcs. The smallest of the three carries a whip (D 1-3) and is standing in front of a bullseye lan- tern, casting his shadow on the far wall. He is also imitating the voices of the ogre and the slaves. To either side of him kneel the other orcs armed with light crossbows at ready (D 1-4) and short swords (D 1-6). These orcs will not be surprised because the slaves have signaled them. Each orc carries 1-4 gp.
Orcs: AC 6; MV 9"; НО 1; hp 2,6,7; AAT 1; D by weapon type
13. Cloister hall
This chamber is dusty and bare of fur- nishings. The floor is wooden and inlaid with simple geometric designs. Long nar-
row windows pierce the south wall. Near each door is a tallow candle mounted on a wall sconce.
This chamber is totally empty of crea- tures or treasure. If the candles are exam- ined, the characters will see that pieces have been pulled off of them. The windows are little more than slits and look into the gar- den at 14. There is a 2 in 6 chance that any character looking through these will see and be seen by one of the harpies living in the cloister garden. Once prey is spotted, these creatures immediately begin to sing, hoping to lure their victims into the garden. If the characters stuff tallow from the candles into their ears, they'll be effectively protected from the harpies’ songs.
14. Cloister garden
Though choked with weeds and untended, this garden looks almost pleasant. Bright flowers bloom in many places — yellows, violets, reds, blues, and many other colors. A path goes
straight through the center to the door on the other side and shows signs of recent use. The trees are blighted and dying, twisted boles and bare branches. Perched in the trees are four harpies.
The path through the garden is used by the half-orcs № reach the buildings beyond it. Near each door to the garden is a tallow candle the orcs use to plug their ears. When- ever anyone enters the garden, the harpies
will start to sing. If after a round the victims show no reaction, the harpies stop and ignore the party, considering them to have business in this place. Should some of the members proceed in the harpies' direction, the creatures immediately swoop to the attack. If two or more of their number are killed, the survivors fly out of the garden and do not return until their foes have left.
Harpies: AC 7; MV 6"/15*; HD 3; hp 12,16,18,21; 4 AT 3; D 1-3/1-3/1-6, sing- ing and touch charm).
15. Water-filled passageway
The corridor is narrow, plastered stone, and roofed by an arched ceiling. Heavy wooden beams form arches every 10 feet. Ahead, the floor of the corridor has collapsed, revealing a flooded sewer line. This collapse extends for 60 feet and then ends, as the water flows out from a sunken opening. Fifteen feet above this water line is a door set in the end of the passage. Leaning against the wall at this end of the passage is a pole about 10 feet long and 3 inches thick. The water appears to be moving at a swift pace. Trash floats away from the door and dis- appears through a narrow opening under the collapsed edge of the corridor. The air is foul and smells of sewage.
Characters may attempt to swim to the far end of the hall, but to do so against the current is difficult and tiring. Current speed is 3” and the water depth is 8 feet. Only characters in leather armor or less (except those in magic armor) may swim the dis- tance. Those in leather may not carry more than 200 gp of extra weight. Swimming characters move at the same rate as their dungeon speed plus or minus the speed of the current.
Many methods may be used to reach the opposite side, including unhinging the doors to be used as rafts, levitating a person over with a rope, spider climbing along the walls, etc. A door will carry either one heavily loaded or armored character or two unarmored ones. If not poled or towed by a rope, the door will drift with the current. Spikes driven into the doors and walls will support no more than one armored charac- ter at a time, It takes three rounds to travel the length of a rope to the opposite end.
16a. Main courtyard
This courtyard is a large open area. For the most part it is bare dirt, but tall, rank weeds grow up in the corners. At the north end is a large gatehouse to the out- side. This way is blocked by two heavy portcullises. There is a wooden door on either side of this gate. Opposite the
gatehouse is a pair of huge double doors leading to the temple proper. In the courtyard are two tables, one near the gate and the other near the temple doors, and an unusual looking pushcart. Three orcs stand near each table, and four humans or half-orcs are standing around the pushcart.
If not surprised, the orcs immediately push the tables over and take cover behind them. These tables give them 50% cover, rendering them AC 2 and adding +4 to any saving throws from physical attack forms (lightning bolts, fireballs, etc.). From behind these tables, the orcs fire their light crossbows and defend with their spears.
Simultaneously, the half-orcs turn the pushcart so that it faces the intruders. This cart is a primitive flamethrowing device. The front of it has been fixed with a mantlet, giving the half-orcs 90% cover (AC -4), +10 on all frontal saving throws, 1/2 or no damage if save is successful). Protruding from this mantlet is a nozzle with a slow- burning torch mounted on a bracket in front of it. Behind the mantlet is a barrel contain- ing a volatile oil mixture which is sprayed out the nozzle by a bellows arrangement. This cart may be worked to flame three times before the fuel is exhausted. The flame hasa range of 30 feet and is 5 feet wide at the end of its range. This flame causes 4-24 points of damage to the first person struck. If others are behind this person, they suffer half damage from the flame. A successful saving throw vs. dragon's breath reduces the damage by half for the first person and indicates that no damage has been suffered by those characters behind him or her.
The cart is able to move 6 feet per turn. If attacked by a fire-based spell, the cart must undergo a separate saving throw, regardless of the success of the half-orcs. A 10 or better indicates that the cart has saved; failure to save indicates that the cart caught fire and will explode the next round, There is a 25% chance that the half-orcs will remain and attempt to put the flames out. A roll of 1-2 on a dé is required for the half-orcs to be successful at this. Failure to put out the
flames results in an explosion doing 3-1: points of damage to all within 10 feet of the cart (no saving throw).
Unless in danger of being flanked, neithe: the half-orcs nor the orcs advance fron behind their respective cover. They attemp to slay the party with arrows and use the cart to force them into a corner.
The operation of the cart is not as simpl as it seems, due to the valves controlling the oil flow, nozzle adjustments, and other con trols. Characters will not be able to manag« the operation of this device without length; study and practice. Likewise, it requires г special oil mixture to operate this device. one that is not readily available.
The ores and half-orcs carry no treasure
Orcs: AC 6; MV 9"; HD 1; hp 4 each; #A1 1; D by weapon type.
Half-orcs: AC 6; MV 9", HD 1; hp7; #AT 1; D by weapon type.
16b. Outer portcullis winch
This room is cluttered with ropes, wooden blocks and stools. In the main section is a table, a candle and bowl of gruel on it. In the alcove at the back of the room is the winch for raising the out- side portcullis. Sitting at the table is a man eating dinner, Sullenly staring at him from the far wall are three slaves, apparently unchained.
The man is a half-orc fighter dressed ir chain mail. On the table beside him rests « dagger (D 1-4) and a longsword (D 1-8). I attacked he attempts to escape from the room On his finger he wears а +1 ring of protec tion. The slaves are actually chained to thi wall by neck collars and so cannot mov about freely. Should the half-orc ever ventur within 5 feet of them, they attempt to grappl and overpower him, provided that he doe not have his weapon at ready. In the pocket of the fighter's clothes are the key to releas these slaves and a gem worth 1,000 gp.
Half-orc fighter: AC 3; MV 9”; Lvl 4; hp 32 #AT 1; D by weapon type).
16c. Inner portcullis winch
This small room is almost featureless. A small window looks into the space between the two portcullises, a large winch dominates the center of the room, and two humanoids are sitting on stools facing each other at the other end of the
oom. One, an obvious half-orc, is hold- g a sword and pointing it at the other.
e half-orc has realized that he is sitting the same room with a doppleganger and rying to hold him at bay with his sword. he doppleganger is not surprised by the rance of the party, it shapes itself into the eness of a slave. When the party enters Py see the half-orc holding his sword on a ve. If the doppleganger is surprised, the ty sees a half-orc holding a sword on his fect double. Given the circumstances, doppleganger will either try to join the y or convince them that the half-orc is lly the doppleganger. The doppleganger 20 gp and the half-orc carries 5 ep.
lf-orc: AC 4; MV9". HD 1; hp 8; #АТ 1; D by weapon type
ppleganger: AC 5; MV 9": HD 4; hp 13; #AT 1; D 1-12; surprise on 1-3; immune to sleep and charm spells, save as 10th level fighter
. Temple doors
hese double doors are each 5 feet wide d 10 feet high. Beyond them is a corri- or stretching as far as the eye can see. very 10 feet there are statues in niches both sides. These statues are lifelike rvings of orcs and gargoyles, set on 5- ot-high pedestals. They are in a series orc-gargoyle, orc-gargoyle. Each orc rries a different weapon in an attack osition, while the gargoyles are ouched, ready to spring at an inknown foe. All the statues are clean d look relatively new.
A glyph of warding has been cast across 10-foot section of passageway marked the X. If stepped on without proper pre- tions, this glyph releases its energy at the goyle statues to either side, causing them be flung into the hallway. Characters in second rank must save vs. paralyzation suffer full damage from one of these tues. A successful save reduces damage half. The statues make a great deal of se, negating any chance for surprise in ounter area 18. The statues are not ani- ted in any way.
. Temple chamber
eyond these double doors (fitted like ose at area 17), is a large open room, lit
by braziers and candles. The scent of incense is faintly noticeable. Across the room opposite the door is a dais and an altar, This consists of a semi-circular 3- step raised platform projecting out from the wall. On the dais rests a gigantic statue, This statue is of a one-eyed orclike humanoid standing with legs spread, holding a sword with both hands above his head. In front of this statue, standing on the main floor, are 3 half- orcs dressed in plate mail and carrying halberds. Behind them stands a woman wearing plate mail and carrying a mace.
35
To the right of the double doors is a poor- box mounted on the wall. To the left and
in the corner is a font with 10 slaves chained hand and foot beside it.
The woman is a 6th level evil cleric. She has the following spells memorized:
First level: command (x2), cure light wounds (x2), protection from good
Second level: hold person (x2), resist fire, silence 15* radius, spiritual hammer
Third level: bestow curse, blindness, prayer
The half-orcs in front of her are 3d level fighters who attempt to melee with the
FRON LINDAHN сө.
party, preventing attackers from reaching the cleric. She will stand behind them, attempting to cast spells.
If the cleric is alerted to the party's pres- ence before they enter this area (through loud noise, etc.) she will cast the following spells (if time permits) in the order listed:
The silence spell will be cast in the area around the door.
The prayer will be cast over herself and the fighters in front of her.
A resist fire will be cast upon herself.
A protection from good will be cast upon herself.
Hidden in the poorbox is a troll made tiny by a stone of diminution. (A small gray stone, this device acts in the same manner as a potion of diminution with respect to the size of the creature when the device is oper- ating. This diminution lasts for 2-5 turns or until the user lets go of the stone. Each use requires one charge. A stone has 1-6 charges.) Two rounds after the party enters the room the troll bursts out of the box at full size and attacks the party. It has normal chances for surprising the party.
Hiding in shadows behind the font is a 4th level assassin who attempts to backstab an unarmored figure if possible. Unless precau- tions are taken to protect the rear of the party, the assassin is able to make a back- stab attempt.
The slaves are ordinary slaves and will avoid combat if at all possible. No figure may pass through this group due to their chains; they must always be circled. Figures forced into the slaves stumble and trip, requiring one round to regain their feet, during which time they may not attack. The slavers suffer an extra 1-6 points of damage if forced into the slaves as they will be struck by chains, fists, and feet.
The commanders in this chamber are responsible for the management of daily operations of the temple. They are greatly in fear of the slave lords and only substan- tial inducements will get them to talk. They know little more than the rumors the char- acters already possess about the slave lords. However, they do have a near-complete knowledge of the layout and workings of the temple. They can provide accurate directions and may betray Sturm Blucholtz, the minor slave lord, to save their own lives. However, they won't reveal the tenuous nature of their alliance with the aspis, hop- ing the player characters will blunder along to their doom.
On the floor between the legs of the statue is an ornamental trap door. This leads to the
lower sections of the temple through the aspis lair. In a niche at the top of this shaft are three bags with 300 gp each, a gem worth 2,000 gp, and sheafs of parchment. These papers have much vague information on the activities of the slave lords. The player characters must study this material carefully before drawing any useful conclu- sions. More detail on the papers and what can be gained from them is presented in the next section.
The trap door to the lower level has been trapped to prevent unwanted people in the lower level. If the trap door is opened with- out first locking the secret catch located on the left foot of the statue, the arms of the statue fall forward. The sword blade swings directly over the trap door and does 6-36 points to any person in its path.
Evil cleric: АС 1 due to Dexterity; MV 6”; Level 6; hp 30; #AT 1; D by weapon type; carryinga * 1 maceand a potion of
Half-orc fighters: AC 3; MV 6"; Level 3; hp 20; AAT 1; D by weapon type
Troll: AC 4; MV 12"; HD 6+6; hp 37; FAT 3; D 5-8/5-8/2-12; regeneration
Assassin; AC 7; MV 12*; hp 12; /AT 1; D by weapon type; backstab for double damage
19. Ruined chapel
This was once a large high-ceilinged chamber, obviously the altar room of the previous temple. The ceiling was once built from stone arches, but now it is col- lapsed, crushing the altar. Great shat-
tered blocks and columns cover the floor, and the roof is open to the sky. Sheets of roofing material and jagged beams thrust up from the floor. Ivy cov- ers the walls. Fluttering and squeaking can be heard.
The squeaking sound comes from 10 stirges nesting in the creepers on the walls. Hungry, they attack any who enter this chamber, avoiding those with open flames and attacking other characters first. If four or more stirges are killed, the survivors retreat to their nests. They return to attack in 5-8 rounds. Under one of the vines is a jeweled dagger worth 1,000 gp.
Stirges: AC 8; MV 37/18”; HD 1+1; hp 5 each; #AT 1; D 1-3; strikes as 4 HD crea- ture, drains blood for 1-4 per round
36
Key to the Sewer Level
Sewer Encounter Table
Encounter occurs 1 in 6, check each turn. 1. 1-4 aspis drones (AC 3; MV 15"; HD 6; #AT 2; D 1-4/1-4 or by weapon type). 2-3. 2-12 ores (AC 6; MV 9"; HD 1; #AT 1; D 1-8 or by weapon type); see below. p^ slave band; see below 6. 2-20 giant rats (AC 7; HD 1/4, #AT 1; D 1-3). 7.1-2 giant weasels (AC 6; MV 15"; HD 3*3; #AT 1; D 2-12). 8.1 green slime (AC 9; MV 0" HD 2; #AT 0, special). 9.1-3 dopplegangers (AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4; #AT 1; D 1-12); see below. 10. 1-6 Crocodiles (AC 5; MV 6"/12*; HD 3; #AT 2; D 2-8/1-12).
Orcs: There is a 10% chance that an ogre is present with any band of orcs. The orc: are armed with light crossbows and battle axes or short swords.
Slave band: 2-12 slaves shackled anc manacled together are herded through the sewers by 2-8 orcs armed with whips anc short swords. There is a 25% chance that а human fighter (level 6-7) is present along with a half-orc fighter (level 1-3) acting a: interpreter. This human is preparing a cara- van to leave the city.
Doppleganger: There is a 50% chance that these creatures are posing as orcs wher encountered.
Note: There are three main types of con- struction found throughout the under ground passages of the temple: dirt tunnel: and chambers; sewers; and passageway: and rooms. Dirt tunnels are dug from th« soil, are hard packed, and are roofed by wooden planks, There are beams every £ feet supporting the ceiling. The passage ways are normally 10 feet wide, but thi: varies considerably from section to section The ceilings are about 7 feet to 8 feet high The chambers have also been delved from the earth and are supported by beams although there is no planking to cover the ceiling. The walls and floors in chamber: and passages are slightly muddy, but show no signs of crumbling. If the beams support ing the ceiling are destroyed (due t« removal, fire, lightning bolt, etc.), there wil be a collapse in a 5- to 10-foot radius. Per sons caught in this area suffer 2-20 points о damage (no saving throw), If more than 1: points are sustained by a character, that per son has been totally buried and mus
rescued within 5 rounds or die of suffoca- n. Players may dig 2 feet per round with- tools or 5 feet per round with shovels. A lapse will totally block a passage. Bewer tunnels are 20 feet wide arched ssageways of brick and stone. The walls rotting, crumbling brick, covered with less molds and slimes. Along one side в 5-foot-wide stone ledge. e ceiling is formed of stone blocks, and
center of the arch. Water drips from cks in the stone and calcification has med tiny stalactites hanging from the ling. In some places, small plant roots g down from above. e remainder of the passage is filled with off mixture of sewage and water, 6 hes below the level of the ledge. The ter depth varies from 5 feet to 12 feet at y given point (roll d8 +4 to determine the bth when necessary). Garbage floats slug- ly at the surface, not revealing the onger undercurrent. The current, 2 feet eath the surface, moves at a rate of 3" turn in the direction of the Grub Hatch- (room 2). Those swimming downstream y add this amount to their movement e; those swimming upstream must sub- this amount. The passageways and rooms are of stand- | dungeon construction. These areas аге paratively dry. The walls; ceilings, and ors are made of large blocks of smoothly ed stone. Doors are made of heavy , bound in iron and studded with large ets.
Escape Ladder
ladder extends from a circular stone aft to a dirt tunnel. The ladder is wood ind in good condition. It does not
ppear to be fixed to the wall. There are any tracks in the mud about the ladder. e air is damp and foul.
is ladder leads to the temple altar on surface (room 18). A stone lid covers the р of the shaft, but this may easily be bved aside from below. Just below the top he shaft is a small niche stuffed with the s described in room 18. Along the lip of shaft is a small catch. If this is not found d set, the trap described in room 18 is trig- ed, causing 6-36 points of damage to the kt person through the opening. The tracks those of orcs coming and going and an own creature (aspis) of great stature.
2. Grub Hatchery
The floor of this room is completely cov- ered with drying garbage and other foul materials; characters must wade through this to enter the room. The air is steamy, and condensation appears on the walls,
already covered by pale, moist slime growths. The heat of rotting garbage rises from the floor, rendering infravis- ion useless. The odor of rot is almost nauseating in its intensity
The room is actually a pit, filled with sew- age waste up to the level of the surrounding passages. The sewage is 5 feet 6 inches deep and has a consistency of slimy quicksand. Beneath the sewage at the entrances are 5- foot-by-5-foot platforms, and connecting them is a 3-foot-wide ledge. The forward edge of the platform becomes steps going down into the pit, six steps in all. The platforms are covered by 6 inches of sewage while the ledge quickly slopes to a depth of 2 inches.
Living in these pits are five aspis larvae in different stages of growth. These blind crea- tures, which vary in length from 6 inches to 3 feet, attack any disturbance in the sewage, choosing greater disturbances over lesser disturbances. They are capable of attacking while submerged, but may only rise 6 inches above the surface. None attack figures on the 5 by 5 platforms. Up to three may attack those standing on a ledge, and all may attack those in the pit.
When entering the room, if no precau- tions are stated, the front rank automati- cally stumbles on the steps, plunging into the pit. Characters in the pit move at one- fourth their normal movement rate, fight at a -4 to hit, defend at -4 from their normal armor class, and may only use thrusting weapons. The sewage is mildly corrosive and burns flesh and weakens cloth or leather. Each round characters stand on the ledge they take 1-2 hit points of damage. Those in the pit suffer 2-5 points of damage. Characters submerged in the sewage take an extra 8 points of drowning damage at the end of the second round. Characters with constitution scores of 16 or better take only 4 points. Thereafter damage continues for every round a character remains sub- merged. Characters may float to the surface by releasing held items and swimming. No other actions may be taken if this is done.
If the sewage is collected and carried to be thrown at opponents it will do no damage, but the stench of the fluid will cause all within a 3-foot radius of the burst sewage
37
pots to save vs. poison or be helpless with nausea for 2-8 rounds. The sewage fluid may only be carried in ceramic or metal ves- sels. If the container is not stoppered, the smell will affect the party. Even if the sew- age is carried in a stoppered container, the stench gained in obtaining the fluid will remain for 5 turns, negating surprise during that time.
Aspis larvae: AC 6; HD 5; hp 20,21,26,16,10; #AT 1; D 2-7; surprise on 1-3; immune to acid
3. Egg Chamber
The passageway rises quickly above the level of the sewage, and the chamber floor seems dry. The space is large, and the dirt ceiling is supported by many beams. Ten feet away, spaced in a ring
around the only entrance to the cham- ber, are three large insect creatures. Each carries two battle axes, one in each upper forelimb. Beyond them near the far wall are many glistening white ovoids, about 6 inches to 1 foot in length
Three drone aspis are guarding the egg chamber. They instantly attack any stran- gers who enter the room (+2 on their "to hit" rolls due to morale). They neither retreat nor surrender. If not surprised, they attempt to summon aid by making loud clicks and whistles. If any aid should come (50% base chance, subject to DM's modifi- cation), a few of the drones from the Aspis chamber (area 5) arrive. The twenty white ovoids on the ground beyond the drones are the eggs of the nest. Their soft membranes may be easily slit open to reveal partially formed aspis larvae inside. Hidden under one of the eggs along the south wall of the chamber is the combined treasure of the three drones; three gems worth 500 gp, 1,000 gp, and 100 gp respectively.
Aspis: AC 3; МУ 15*; HD 6; hp 30,27,45; #AT 2; D by weapon type
4. Food Storage
А 5-Foot wide path runs through the cen- ter of this room from exit to exit. To either side of the path is a trench (5 feet wide) filled with grain. Beyond the trenches are piles of dried carcasses and mounds of rotting vegetation. Hung from stakes driven into the walls are leather skins and full bladders
This chamber is the food storage area for the aspis. The trenches to either side of the path are 3 feet deep. The southern one con- tains nothing but grain, but the one to the north is inhabited by a gray ooze at the bot- tom of the trench. It attacks creatures who disturb its trench. The mounds of decaying vegetation are infested with rot grubs, 15 in all. The aspis consider the grubs a delicacy. Under one of the piles may be seen the thongs of a leather sack. This sack contains three apples covered with a glittering silver- blue mold. The mold is beneficial and cures any non-magical disease if one apple is eaten. The piles of carcasses are those of 26 giant rats and 14 humans. The bodies are unclothed and unadorned. The leather skins and bladders are filled with honey and wine.
Gray ooze: AC 8; MV 1*; HD 3 *3; hp 19; #AT 1; D 2-16; corrodes metal; affected only by blows and lightning
Rot grubs: AC 9; MV 1"; hp 1 each; burrow into flesh if touched, kills host in 1-3 turns unless flame or cure disease is applied
5. Aspis Chamber
This large dug-out chamber has several exits visible. Three of these are man- sized in height and lead off in different directions. The other exits are smaller, near the floor, and appear to be large enough for only gnomes or halflings to
use. There is much activity, and the room appears to be a meeting area. Four insect men are occupied with various tasks: mending straps, eating, sharpening weapons. Around their feet run five giant ants
Just before each tunnel entrance is a silken trip cord set about four inches above the floor. This trap releases a camouflaged net hung over the tunnel entrances. These nets have been soaked in the sap of the giant sun- dew, making them particularly stickly. The nets cover a 5-foot by 5-foot area; any crea- tures caught in them fight at a -2 due to entanglement on the first round and will suffer an additional -1 on his or her chance to hit each round thereafter. Characters with an 18 strength or greater may break the net in three rounds, All other characters must be cut free with the aid of another per- son.
When a party enters, the insect men first order the five giant worker ants to attack while the drones prepare. The drones each
attack with two broadswords (D 2-8) and defend with two shields. They attempt to stab at the defenseless players caught in the nets while they are preoccupied with the giant ants. If forced to retreat, the drones attempt to go to the Breeding chamber (area 6) to help protect the cow. No reinforce- ments come to this chamber unless the party is already being pursued.
The commanders of the temple above (found in room 18) and the minor slave lord who controls this operation (in room 21) have arranged an alliance with the aspis col- ony. In return for food, the aspis provide some guards and allow the slavers to use the sewers. However, they are very territorial about their dens. The slavers are only allowed to pass through room 5 on their way to rooms 1, 7, 19, or 21. Even then, the humans must first stop and obtain specific permission to enter the area. They are con- stantly watched by the drones who attack them at the slightest provocation. If the humans violate the agreement, the aspis are quite likely to withdraw from the alliance and attack the slavers (or any others).
Giant worker ants: AC 3; MV 18*; HD 2; hp 13 each; ZAT 1; D 1-6
Drones: AC 2; MV 15*; HD 6; hp 44,36,20,34; #AT 2; D by weapon type
6. Breeding Chamber
This chamber is a large cavern dug from the earth, its ceiling supported by long beams that extend from wall to wall, The ceiling is 12 feet high. The floor is pud- dled with water. Several openings are visible some four to five feet high while others are only high enough for a half- ling or gnome to craw] through. Towards the center of the room is a gigantic white larva, almost 12 feet long and four feet wide. Around it are several insect men, six in all, armed with halberds and shields. On the floor against the south wall may be seen four leathery white balls, about one foot in diameter
This is the main breeding chamber of the aspis. It is occupied by the giant grublike cow and six aspis drones, Their fanatical devotion to the nest causes the drones to fight at +2 on their chances “to hit" and not surrender or flee unless the cow is slain. If the cow should be killed, the aspis attempts to flee to the egg and grub chambers to defend the young.
In two to five rounds after the party enters, two to four giant soldier ants appear
38
from the mouths of the ant tunnels (deter mine which tunnel randomly) to assist th aspis. They will retreat before a stoutly wielded open flame. Every round for fiv« rounds after the ants first appear, two more worker ants enter the chamber, until a tota of 10 have arrived. The entrances may be temporarily blocked with any suitable material (bundles of sacks, a full backpack, a body, etc.). Each blockage requires two rounds for the ants to remove.
Along the south wall are four egg cases. These have been collected after the larvae have hatched, then cleaned and sewn back together to form sacks. Three of these case: contain 100 pp each while the fourth con- tains а +1 cloak of protection, a potion oí healing, and a scroll of protection from pet- rifaction (10^ radius).
Giant cow: AC7; MV 3"; HD 6; hp 60; #AT 1; D 3-18
Aspis drones: AC 2; MV 15"; HD 6; hp 40 each; #АТ 2; D 1-4/1-4 or 1-10/1-10 with halberd
7. Spare Food Chamber
This chamber appears empty although the floor has four, three-foot deep pits dug in it, There is ample room between the pits to safely walk across the cham- ber. The pits appear to have nothing in them. On the east wall is a ladder to a trap door in the ceiling
This chamber is a reserve food storage area, presently not in use. Inspection of the pits reveals a scattering of grain, but noth- ing else. The trap door is locked from the top side, but there is a secret catch on the underside which a thief may locate if a suc- cessful open locks roll is made. Otherwise, the trap door may be forced as if it were a normal door, although all attempts are made at a -1 to the die roll.
8. Giant Ant Lair
These tunnels are small holes dug through the earth, obviously unsupported by beams or other fittings. They are only wide enough for gnomes or halflings to crawl through.
Ba. Nests
Each chamber contains two to 12 giant worker ants and one to three giant soldier ants, The chamber also contains either food (60%) or eggs (40%).
ant worker ants: AC 3; MV 18"; HD 2; hp 9 each; #AT 1; D 1-6
Idier ants: AC 3; MV 18*; HD 3; hp 14 each; #AT 1 and 1; D 2-8; poison sting causes 3-12 if first attack hits, or save vs. poison for 1-4
Вр. Queen's Chamber
In this chamber, protected by 10 soldier ts (hp 15 each) and 10 worker ants (hp 9 5 Сһ), is the queen The soldier ants fight to e death while the worker ants attempt to ove the eggs (20 total) from the cham- r. If the workers succeed, they then aempt to push the queen to another nest. ould the queen be killed, the ants are con- е0 for six melee rounds and then begin to (е the nest. The collected treasure of the dent ants may be found under the body of e queen. It consists of seven gems (one 10 2. two 50 gp, three 200 gp, one 1,000 gp) d a potion bottle of oil of slipperiness.
een ant: AC 3; MV nil; HD 10; hp 55; #AT 0; D nil
Ledge Trap
loats on the surface of the sewer runoff.
is, they notice that garbage floats in from th directions and collects here although fe amount a trash never really seems to i@rease. There is a drain in the center run- channel, and a trap has been set to make e of it. The 10-foot shaded area of the іре on the map has been fitted to pivot. less precautions are taken, the ledge tips, e edge closest to the wall tilts up and the her edge drops into the sewer. Precautions tat would be effective include: wedging the Не; providing counterbalancing for char- Aters as they cross; moving across the trap essed against the wall, etc. Once in the water, a character is pulled bwn by the drain suction. The character st drop all items in hand to attempt to “Шу afloat. The base percentage chance for eping one's head above the water is 40%; 1% for every strength point (and +1% each 10% of exceptional strength over ), -15% for leather armor, -20% for shield hich may be released the next round) or spidded leather armor, -35% for chain mail, 0% for banded armor, -45% for splint or dale armor, -50% for plate mail, and -10% reach round submerged after the first. All
magical armor—except shields—improves survivability by 5%.
A character pulled under the surface has two rounds to surface. If the character has not reached the surface by the third round, he or she suffers 10 points of damage each following round. The drain is wide enough fora man to fit through, but progress is slow down it. If someone on the surface does not have a rope in hand, it takes one round to ready one. Suction draws a weighted rope within reach of the submerged person, and the person finds it on a roll of 1-5 (d6). A combined strength of 36 points is required to free a person from the suction in two rounds (each 10% over 18 equals another point); 72 points frees the person in one round.
When leaving this area, characters begin to hear a thumping of drums coming at a steady, but slightly irregular beat. The sound echoes throughout the passage and is obviously coming from somewhere ahead.
9a. Sewer Bridge
There is a wooden bridge supported by stone pillars that crosses the river of sewage at this point. The bridge is 5-feet wide and has no railing. It is well built and appears to be sturdy.
10a. False Drum
The sewer passage ends in a tumble of ruin, completely choking the passage- way. Part of the collapsed tunnel forms a
ledge extending into the water. Little cur- rent moves through here, and the water is stagnant and slimy. An old tun rests upside down at the end of the ledge
This tun acts as a drum when drops of water strike it from above. The sound resounds through the sewers at almost regu- lar intervals. Should the tun be moved or disturbed, the intelligent creatures of the sewers will be aware that someone is wan- dering around in their area. Orcs and aspis are ready for any attackers and will not be
surp ;
At the end of the passageway, in the rub- ble of the collapse, is a door carefully cam- ouflaged to appear to be part of the ruined wall. This should be treated as a concealed door. Once found, it may be easily opened.
10b. Secret Door
This secret door is a stone slab that pivots around a vertical axis, and is thus hidden
39
from both directions. It is activated by a large mass (such as a human body) striking the 10- foot wide slab within three feet of either edge. The slab will pivot in either direction. The DM should consider the possibility of the swinging end of the door striking any charac- ter in its path and possibly depositing them in the slowly flowing sewage.
11. Small Sewer Channels
The construction of the sewer changes here, the main channel dividing into three smaller tunnels. The walls are still made of brick and the ceilings of stone, but there are no longer any dry ledges to walk upon. The floor is solid, but is covered by about 2 feet of sewage flowing towards the main chan- nel. Wading through this is difficult and tir- ing. All movement is reduced by one fourth and all “to hit" rolls must be made at -1.
12. Orc and Ogre Outpost
This irregular-shaped room has appar- ently been enlarged by the inhabitants of the sewer. The western half of the cham- ber is raised about 6 feet above the level of the sewage and the three passages that enter the west side of the chamber each £o up a short flight of stairs to reach the room. The eastern half of the area appears to have been recently dug. It has dirt floors and a ceiling supported by beams. The stone wall connecting it to the western half has been partially removed. There is a ladder in the eastern section that leads to a trap in the ceiling, and there is a door on the northern wall. A great number of orcs and three ogres are in this room. They appear to be armed and standing watch
Three ogres act as captains for 18 orcs guarding this area. If approached from one of the three sewer passages from the west, six of the orcs, if not surprised or alerted because of the drumming stopped, form three ranks on the steps. The bottom rank is armed with hand axes (D 1-6), and the two ranks above them with light crossbows (D 1-4) and hand axes (D 1-6). Behind the third rank stand two of the ogres with six rocks each. Of the remaining twelve orcs (also armed with light crossbows and hand axes), six remain out of sight to act as reinforce- ments, while the other six orcs and the third ogre move down one of the side passages to attack the party from behind. In the time it takes the party to close with the orcs on the steps, their ogre captains and those armed
with crossbows attack with missile weap- ons. Once the front rank of orcs has been closed with, the orc crossbowmen fire at unarmored characters to prevent spellcast- ing. As orcs in the front ranks fall, their places are filled by those orcs above them, dropping their crossbows and stepping down into melee, Reinforcements then fill their positions. The orcs will not flee, due to their fear of the ogres and lack of a suitable escape route.
If the party enters from the northern door, the orcs, unless previously warned, are unprepared for defense. They rush the party and rely on greater numbers to win the battle.
In the ceiling of the chamber is a false trap door with an old ladder bolted to the wall leading to it. In a corner is the group trea- sure of 180 cp and 360 gp. Each ogre carries one 500 gp gem, and the largest carries a dagger +1, +2 ys. magic-users and enchanted creatures.
Ogres: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4 +1; hp 24,19.20; #AT 1; D 1-10; throw rocks 80° for 1-8 damage
Ores: AC 6; MV 9”; HD 1; hp 6 each; #AT 1; D by weapon type
13. Sewer Collapse
The sewer ahead appears to have under- gone a major collapse, and the passage- way is almost entirely blocked. A narrow path crosses over the tumble of rocks that the sewer water flows under. It is blocked in the center by a large beam that extends from a crack in the floor to the ceiling. The beam appears to support a large stone block and prevents a total blockage of the passageway. The ceiling height here is 7 feet. To either side of the beam are spaces that a gnome or halfling could squeeze through. On the ground around this area are five flat pieces of rock (each about 6 inches thick), two broken beams (each 5 feet long) and a broken set of manacles. On the walls are scrawled samples of orc graffiti.
The beam blocking the center of the pass- ageway does indeed support the stone block in the ceiling. If this beam is removed with- out any precautions, the block immediately falls and blocks the passageway. The pas- sage can't be widened as the walls and the floor here are made of wide sections of tum- bled stone. If attempts are made to push the beam to the side, no improvement will result and the block will slip down a few
inches in a clatter of small stones. Examination of the crack from which the beam thrusts discloses that the crevice extends to a substantial depth and that the beam is precariously balanced on a small outcropping of rock a short distance down. Evidently, the weight of the block prevents the beam from slipping off this ledge. Any character with 18 or greater strength may lift the block for one round and may hold it for every round thereafter that a successful bend bars/lift gates roll is made. When the weight is lifted off the beam, the beam shifts with a rattling crash and slides into the crev- ice out of sight. This noise may alert any nearby creatures or attract the attention of wandering monsters. The block may be sup- ported by a character for as long as possible while other characters slip through, or by placing three to four of the flat rocks under one of the 5-foot beams and wedging it in place. Should the block fall (either by drop- ping it or knocking away the support) it does three to 30 points of damage to the per- son releasing it, unless the support was pulled out by a rope or some similar means. The block will completely close the passage- way. The stone may be levered up with beams and stones, but this will require 50 combined strength points and three turns to accomplish. 14. Orc Ground Post
This is a small dirt chamber. In the east corner is a small glowing brazier that provides a dim light and little heat. The odor of burned meat and uncured leather hangs in the air. The walls are hung with the hides of various creatures, all poorly prepared and ragged. About the room are six orcs armed with short swords and spears. Near each exit is a gong hung from a large bone stuck into the wall
The six orcs are guards to alert the main chamber of any attacks. If not surprised, 1-4 orcs will remain in the area to fight the party while the others flee the chamber, pounding on the gong as they go. These fleeing orcs will attempt to join either the main group or one of the other guard posts. Those that remain will fight until one of their number is killed. When this happens, the survivors will attempt to flee in any direction. All orcs will fight if surprised.
The skins on the wall are worthless, being too poorly prepared to have any value. The brazier is made of bronze and might be worth 1 gp if it were cleaned and restored. Each ore carries all of his personal treasures
(2-12 gp each). Beyond this, there is nothing | of value in the room. |
Ores (6); AC 6; MV 9^ HD 1; hp 5,6,2,7,7,4; 4 AT 1; D 1-8 or by weapon type
15. Orc Chambers a. Main Chamber
This crudely fashioned room is large and somewhat crowded, being occupied by many orcs engaged in daily tasks. The walls throughout are hung with weap- ons, shields, skins, and tribal banners
(such as gaudily decorated manacles, еіс,). There are several small cooking fires, giving off little light, but just enough heat to ruin infravision around them. Near these fires are low mounds of dirt. The air is smoky and smells rancid
There are 24 orcs, six males and 18 females in the chamber. All will fight with equal ferocity attempting to capture or kill intruders. There are also 20 young who will not fight. A variety of weapons will be available to the orcs—hand axes, spears, shortswords, and daggers. If six or more orcs are killed, one will attempt to summon aid from one or more of the following cham- bers: the Chief's Den (15b), the Guard post (14), or (16a). If possible, these reinforce- ments will attempt to circle around behind the party, although this will take five rounds. If the orcs are forced to retreat, they will not allow themselves to be trapped in the Chief's Den if at all possible.
The skins on the wall are of no value, being like those in room 14— poorly cured, ragged, and dirty. The other items that can be found in the chamber—chipped pots, worn baskets, bone dice (probably loaded), utensils made of human bones—are also of no particular value, The weapons, though battered, are sturdy and sharp. Each male has 1-6 gp on his body, The females carry no treasure.
Ores: AC 6; MV 9”; HD 1; hp 5 each; #AT 1; D by weapon type; +1 on "to hit" and morale because of standard
b. Chíef's Den
This room appears much like the others in this orc lair, It is an earthen chamber, its walls hung with furs and worn tapes- tries instead of skins. These tapestries are dingy drab-colored, and are a
odgepodge of styles. The floor is cov- bred with skins and furs concealing the Hirt floor. At the north end of the cham- ber is a raised platform with even more urs (decorated tastelessly). Upon one pnd is a chest. in the chamber are eight arge orcs, armed and ready. Further-
ore, on the platform sits an extremely arge orc flanked by two ogres
The chief of the orc tribe, his bodyguards, Жа his two ogre advisors reside in this om. All except the ogres are armed with ing swords and flails. These creatures will bht to the death, expecting no mercy from eir opponents and having no place to flee. possible, they will attempt to rush an bposing group, pushing them aside and en turning and trapping their opponents № the room. If this is successful, but they Il cannot defeat their enemies, they will ich fire from the main chamber and burn e room or fill it with smoke. The chest is the only thing of obvious alue in the room, the rest being too @ained, poorly maintained, or trashy to be orth taking. The chest is locked and there Ша keyhole in the front. The chest also has a ph of warding on it, a rune which only фе chief knows. Any who open the chest ithout the proper precautions must save . paralyzation or be paralyzed. This #pralysis may only be removed by a remove е. The key to the chest is buried іп the ibrthwest corner. In the chest are three bags of copper Я есеѕ (400 pieces in each) and four gems (50 Ф. 5 gp, 5,000 gp, 2,000 gp). There are also free daggers: one copper hilted, one Wronze-hilted, and one brass hilted. The fades appear to be coated with rust, but is ally dried smears of orcish poison. The erest scratch by one of these blades neces- ates a save vs. poison. Only one success- 1 strike with each dagger may be made Роге the poison is rubbed off. While the hggers are worth 25 gp. 40 gp, and 60 gp
llers, believing them to be evil and suspect р carry such weapons.
hief: AC 4; MV 9”; HD 3; hp 15; ZAT 1; D by weapon type
odyguards: AC 4; MV 9% HD 3; hp 12 each; #AT 1; D by weapon type
рге advisors: АС 5; MV 9"; HD 4 +1; hp 22,25; #AT 1; D 1-10
16. Witch Doctor's Camp
Here the sewer resumes with water to the east side and a 5-foot-wide ledge to the west. A low wall of rocks (3 feet high) blocks the ledge at this point. Across the
water to the east from the wall of rocks are three ledges extending 5 feet into the water, Each is ringed by a low rock wall (2 feet high)
a. Eight ores live in the chamber just west of the ledge. They are armed with spears and short swords. At present, two are on guard duty behind the wall across the ledge. They will not attack until a party is within 20 feet of them. If fired at with missile weapons, these ores are considered to have 50% cover, if they remain behind the wall (AC 2 instead of 6, +4 on saving throws vs. frontal attacks).
On the first attack the ores will hurl their spears and then draw their swords, If any members of the party close with the orcs, these guards will engage them with swords, staying behind the wall. If the party does not close with the guards and rather attacks with missiles the ores will retreat out of sight up the west corridor until the party attempts to cross the wall, at which point the orcs will charge. Replacements will arrive from the side cavern to assist as needed. If two or more ores are killed, the rest will fall back from the wall, forcing characters to cross the wall to engage. On the round spent climbing over the wall, the characters auto- matically lose initiative; if not engaged, the orcs will attack with thrown spears.
In the chamber are 1,000 gp in a stone chest. In a small pit under this chest is a magical scroll with one spell, invisibility. There are also two 15-foot-long planks for crossing the sewer.
Ores: AC 6; MV 9"; HD 1; hp 7 each; #AT
1; D 1-6
b. Six orcs and an orc witch-doctor also live here. The orcs carry light crossbows and three have pots of particularly vile sew- age (when thrown all within a 3-foot radius of the burst must save vs. poison or be help- less with nausea for 2-8 rounds).
Ores: АС 6; MV 9”; HD 1; hp 4 each, #АТ 1: D by weapon type
Orc witch doctor: AC 4; MV 9"; HD 1; hp 6; #AT 1; D sling 2-5/ mace 2-7; C3/MU3
Clerical spells: prayer (scroll, 10% chance of error when reading), cure light wounds, darkness, resist fire
Magic-user spells: shield, affect normal fires, scare
41
As the party approaches (any noise in the area will alert the witch-doctor and his min- ions), the witch-doctor will cast the prayer upon himself and the six orcs. The ores will then move to the entrances on the east side of the sewer (two on each ledge) and hide behind the low walls. One at each position will have a sewer pot. Once the adventurers have engaged with the guards on the oppo- site side, these orcs will attack the rest of the party first with the pots and then with mis- sile fire. They will remain behind their walls, receiving the benefit of 25% cover (AC 4 instead of 6, +2 on saving throws vs. frontal attacks).
As soon as the prayer is cast, the witch- doctor will cast a shield on himself and then go to the southernmost ledge. Once there he will cast darkness at the lead figure and then scare at the second in line. Given a chance he will use affect normal fires to reduce the light of a torch or lantern to almost nothing. Due to cover, the witch-doctor has an armor class 2 classes better than that given by the shield spell (i.e. 0/1/2). Given the opportu- nity, he will cast a resist fire on himself.
If four or more orcs on this side of the sewer are killed, the survivors will flee back into the chamber. They will not pursue the party. In the chamber are two sacks, each containing 250 gp; there are also two gems, 100 gp and 1,000 gp; and two 15-foot planks for crossing the sewage.
17. Gas Filled Room
A short flight of steps leads up to a land- ing on the north end of the sewer above the sewer runoff. There is a door in the
center of the north wall. The air here has a bitter odor different from the rest of the sewer, The torches flare and flicker as if in a breeze.
If the door is opened, the characters see:
Beyond the door is a room, cluttered with rags, rusting weapons, splintered armor, and dirt. The air is bad and stings the eyes slightly, but not enough to cause
any ill effects. Likewise, breathing the air seems to have no dangerous conse- quences. There is a door on the opposite wall, 5 feet from the right end.
The entire chamber is filled with color- less, explosive gas. Nothing will happen until a character enters the room with a burning light source. Torches will ignite the
gas instantly, but lanterns require one round before the gas explodes in a cloud of fire. AII who аге in the room or within 5 feet of an open door must save vs, dragon's breath. Failure to do so results in 4-24 points of damage and blindness for 2-5 rounds. A successful saving throw will result in half damage and no blindness. The gas is con- sumed so quickly that the entire explosion will last but a second. Nothíng will be set on fire, but clothes, hair, eyebrows, etc. will be scorched. If one or both doors are left open for one turn, the gas will dissipate. If the doors are closed, the room will refill in three turns. There is no treasure in this room.
18 a. The Slave Fits
This room is large, with a high ceiling. Two pillars, 5 feet in diameter, reach 20 feet from ceiling to floor, in the middle of the room. A grid of 10-foot-square trap doors form the floor of the entire room.
They are hanging open, forming a grid of 6-inch-wide beams between them. Fif- teen feet below may be seen empty slave pits. These are 10 feet square and are sep- arated from each other by iron bars that reach up to the trap doors.
Standing out of sight, one behind each pillar, are two aspis drones. Each drone car- ries two swords, two shields, and 12 darts strapped to the inside of its shield. The drones will not advance to attack, prefer- ring to cast their darts and use the pillars as cover. Once a party advances over the pits, the aspis will close and attack the party.
The aspis use their hind feet to cling to the beams and are practiced at maintaining their balance. Characters, however, must take care when attempting to melee while standing on the bearn. Any aspis scoring a hit of 2 or more greater than the number required to hit knocks a character off the beam into one of the pits below, inflicting 1-6 points of damage from the fall. The trap door at the top will be closed by the opera- tor at 18b once a character has fallen in. If a character crosses over a closed pit, the oper- ator at 18b will open it long enough for the person to fall in.
If a character strikes an aspis with a roll that is four or more greater than the number needed to hit, the aspis loses one attack that round as it regains its balance. Two such successful attacks cause it to lose both its attacks that round, while three such hits knock it over the edge. Trap doors will not close over an aspis, and the aspis can climb out in one round.
The pits are separated from each other by iron bars spaced 6 inches apart. These extend from the beams above to the floor. There are no doors in the bars. One attempt to bend bars may be made per wall. The trap doors are connected to levers and long rods that run along the beams and disappear into the wall.
Aspis drones: AC 2; MV 15", HD 6; hp 32,36; #AT 2; D 1-4/1-4 or by weapon
type; immune to electrical and cold attacks, half damage from fire
b. Trap Door Control Booth
This is a small room, sparsely furnished. On the east wall are a large number of levers and above them at eye level is a
narrow horizontal slit, A large insect man stands in the room. He is carrying a two-handed sword, two shields, and wears two belts that cross his thorax.
The drone aspis operates the controls to the trapdoors of area 18a and usually watches through the slit for signs of activity. Any who ly pass through the slave pit room
will be met by it in the hallway, as it will not allow unknown humans to pass. If the slit is seen from the chamber, it will still be difficult to see the aspis beyond it. This view slit is too small for missile weapons to be shot through it, nor may the aspis be struck by a [magic missile] as the aspis cannot be seen. Fire attacks (e.g. a [fireball]) will do some damage if the center point of the attack is within 5 feet of the opening. Damage from such attacks will be one-fourth the normal amount. The aspis drone has one treasure that he was carrying back to the nest—a [pearl of wisdom] set into a brooch that he wears at the cross of his belts. Drone aspis: AC 2; MV 15^; HD 6; hp 33; #AT 2; D 1-4/1-4 or by weapon type; immune to electrical and cold attacks, 1/
2 damage from fire 19 a. Main Slave Chamber
This broad, long room is filled with two rows of cages whose bars reach from floor to ceiling. Each has a door with a heavy locking mechanism in it. On the floor of the cells are straw and wooden
bowls. Each cell holds a man or a woman, although each could hold more. Strolling down the central corridor between the cages are three humans and five orcs.
The humans and the orcs are viewing the selection of slave stock in preparation for selecting the hardiest to march out of town on the caravan route. One of the humans is a merchant armed with a dagger under his robes. The second person 15 а female 7th level fighter wearing chainmail armor and carrying a battle axe. She is also carrying a [luckstone] (+1 on all saving throws). The last person is a magic-user wearing robes, [bracers of defense AC 6,] and a [ring of shooting stars]. He carries a staff and a dag- ger.
Accompanying the humans are five orc guides and interpreters armed with light crossbows and spears. The leader of the group carries a ring of keys that will open the cell doors. The prisoners, 13 in number, are ragged and beaten looking. Eleven of these are common folk, both male and female. One of the remaining two is a 4th level fighter who will join the party if equip- ment can be provided for him. The remain- ing slave is actually a doppleganger who, when unknowingly captured by the orcs, decided to pose as a slave while preying on any creature he could find. At times when he is unobserved, he will attempt to slip free of his bonds and hunt for prey.
Each of the caravan organizers carries three gems worth 500 gp each. The merchant also carries a map showing the general route the caravan will take when it leaves here. However, this map was obviously drawn by someone familiar with the route, for it only names principal landmarks, providing no explanation of time or distance. Characters will have to study the map carefully for it to be of use. More information on this map is found in the next section.
Merchant: AC 10; MV 12”; HD 1-1; hp 3; #AT 1; D by weapon type
Female fighter (7th level): AC 5; HD 7; hp 44; D 1-8; +1 on saving throws
Magic-user (6th level): AC 6; MV 12”; hp 12; [ring of shooting stars]; [bracers of defense AC 6]
Spells: [burning hands, friends, magic mis- sile, spider climb, invisibility, web, mon- ster summoning I, slow]
Orcs (5): AC 6; MV 9*; HD 1; hp 4 each; #AT 1; D by weapon type
Slaves: AC 10; MV 12”; 0 level fighters; hp 2-7
Slave (4th level fighter): AC 10; MV 12”; hp 20
Doppleganger: AC 5; MV 9^; HD 4; hp 16; #AT 1; D 1-2; surprise on 1-4; immune to [sleep] and [charm], saves as a 10th level fighter
b. Storerooms
These rooms have tables and shelves neatly piled with clothing, dried rations, manacles, whips, rope, branding irons,
and tuns of wine. These have evidently been kept in good order and free of pests like giant rats or insects,
There is no treasure, armor, or weaponry in either of these rooms.
c. Machine Room
This chamber is set about 5 feet higher than the level of the floor of the slave pens. The ceiling is 10 feet high. Mounted along the length of the ceiling
are a series of pistons and springs that operate the opening and closing of the trapdoors in room 18a. Presently main- taining these are five slaves and an insect man.
This room is beneath 18b and the corri- dor. The aspis drone supervises the slaves who maintain the machinery of the slave pits. The drone is armed with two long swords and carries a shield on his back. If the drone is attacked, the slaves will try to assist the attackers by grappling with it. Due to their desire for freedom, the slaves will press their attack regardless of losses, so long as the hope of rescue remains. There is nothing of value in the room.
Aspis drone: AC 2; MV 15"; HD 6; hp 34; #AT 2; D 1-4 or by weapon type; immune to electrical and cold attacks, half damage from fire
Maintenance slaves: AC 10; Lvl 0; hp 2-7; D 1-4
20. Trick Stairs
A staircase goes down about 10 feet and ends in a small landing with a door fac-
ing the stairs. The steps are made of flag- stones set in mortar. The flagstones are loose.
This staircase will become a slide if the door to room 21 is not opened properly. A thief may not detect the trap, but a dwarf could detect shifting stone if checked for. If the door is opened without first locking a secret catch (detectable only by a thief), the stairs suddenly slant, creating a steep incline. Unless previous precautions have been taken, characters slide into room 21, automatically losing surprise and initiative for the first round. Characters roped together, but not fastened to anything, have even greater difficulties (the characters will be surprised for two segments and may not take any action during that time). After the door is closed and pressure released from the slope, the stairs return to normal. If the door is opened after locking the catch, noth- ing will happen and the party will find stairs going down.
21. Slave Lord's Den
This chamber is circular with a moat of sewage surrounding a bare platform in the center. Around the outer wall of the room is a 3-foot ledge connected to the center of the chamber by three arched stone bridges. On this ledge stand 10 orcs. From the west side of the room a staircase descends into the center of the platform, Opposite the stairs to the east is an alcove containing a table, chairs, and many crates and boxes. There is a man sitting at the table with five giant weasels around him. A ladder at the back of the alcove leads to an opening high in the wall. The entire area is torch- lit.
The man sitting at the table is Sturm Blu- choltz, a thief, The five giant weasels are trained to obey his commands. If not sur- prised, he will order the weasels to leap the moat and attack. After this he will run behind the boxes where he cannot be seen and take a sip (one-eighth of the total) of the potion to become invisible for 3-6 turns. Thereafter, he will await an opportunity to backstab any character he can, sipping the potion again after attacking.
The 10 orcs on the ledge are armed with light crossbows and short swords. Two stand at each bridge while the remaining four position themselves halfway between the bridges. The orcs will not engage in melee immediately, but fire crossbows at any characters not fighting the weasels. If any character enters the alcove, any surviv- ing orcs rush there to attack. Also, they try to prevent the characters from crossing the bridges.
The crates contain rations, chains, and other supplies in preparation for a slave car- avan. In one crate are bags of coins, 5,000 gp total. In another sack in a different crate are three pieces of jewelry, each worth 1,000 gp. On the table are the records of the slav- ers' activities in the area. The characters will have to study these papers to gain any use- ful information. More detail concerning papers found in the temple is given in the next section.
The ladder leads to a dirt tunnel that eventually exits in the cemetery of the tem- ple above ground (see Temple 8).
Blucholtz (Sth level thief): AC 5; hp 26; #AT 1; D by weapon type; backstab for triple damage
Equipment: leather armor, sword, sling, ring of protection +2, potion of invisi- bility
Giant Weasels (5): AC 6; MV 15"; HD 3 +3; hp 20, 24, 18, 19, 21; #AT 1; D 2-12; drain blood for 2-12 points per round
Orcs (10): AC 6; MV 9”; HD 1; hp 4 each; #AT 1; D by weapon type
Captured Documents
The following documents can be found in Фа 18, the temple chamber.
eports of inquisitive strangers in town. ell guards to stand ready. Expect inspec- ons at my leisure. No screw-ups this me!
Sturm В, The order is dated three days earlier.
ipster of the Guard
is is mostly a quite boring document, i#ing half-orcs reporting for duty, those on sick list, those serving punishment detail H those on special duty. Most of the infor- tion is pointless to the player characters. wever, if anyone pays special attention he special duties, he finds the following:
largil & det./20—caravan/Drac. (Dated two weeks prior.)
irost.—under. detail, next week.
nance Record
Rept. Deb.
oading Bloodwort" 40 gp 20 gd./1 sp ig. / Eldredd - 10 gp Request py. of S. B
bading Ghoul” 30 gp 5 gd./1 gp pecial py. authorized — S. K.
.S.B 15 gp
Жауап outfit" 1,000gp 800 gp
rt is dated several weeks prior to the ival of the characters. The Ghoul is dated the day it arrived in Highport (and the practers possibly escaped). The caravan ation is dated two weeks prior, matching date on the guard roster above.
The following documents can be found in area 21—the slave lord's den.
Inventory
This is three large, papyrus scrolls, heavy and thickly bound in gold cord. The scrolls cover the activities of the temple for several years, recording the arrival and departure of slaves and supplies. The ledgers are divided into columns for Rcpt., Dbt., Merch., and Misc. If the player characters try to examine the entire set of ledgers, it will take 1-3 weeks. However, if the charac- ters concentrate on the past few weeks, the following entries may be of use.
Arr, 40 males, 10 fem. (br. st.), 5 matron, 2 children, Safeton—5,000 gp. to Capt. Joinville
(Dated the same date as the arrival of the Bloodwort)
Loss—3 males, 1 fem. (One week later)
Sold—balance of Bloodwort consign- ment to Merchant Alforas (Dated two weeks previous)
Arr. Misc. merch.—special (Dated same day as arrival of Ghoul)
Dis.—misc. merch. by sp. msg. (Dated day after arrival of Ghoul)
Letter from the Council
This letter is gorgeously written and illu- minated on expensive vellum.
In recognition of your valuable service and profitable conduct, be it known that thou, Sturm Bucholtz, are elevated this day to the Outer Council of the Lords and are hereby accorded all rights and privileges such as the Inner Council has seen fit to bestow upon that august body. Hereafter, thou hast the right of appear- ance within the walls of Suderham with a guard of five. Be it known that any of the Brotherhood who shall interfere with the activities of Sturm Bucholtz has raised his hand against all of the Councils and his safety shall be forfeit thereafter.
By the Sponsorship of Edralve and the acclamation of the Nine.
Personal Communications
There are two letters, tied together with string in this bundle. The first reads:
You are ordered to send the two slaves— Kerr and Mitgan—to Suderham in the care of the merchant Alforas. The auc-
tion will be held here. Alforas will rec- ompense you for the loss.
Eanwulf, Lord of the Nine
The second, written in a different hand, reads:
I have received your letter and consid- ered your request. I will not do as you ask. Do not grow overbold, Sturm Bucholtz! Membership in the Outer Council is no safety from the wrath of the Nine! Once now, you have refused an order of the Inner Council. Lest you
reconsider your actions, you shall never refuse again. I will not give my aid to stubborn fools—neither shall they win my affections. You will comply, I trust, proving the trust I have placed in your hands.
Mistress Edralve
The third letter seems to have nothing to do with the other two. If a character exam- ines it carefully (other than just reading it), he can tell that it was written in a different hand from the other two.
To my most gracious Lord Bucholtz,
I am filled with joy at your report. The raid you planned upon the hapless vil- lage of Safeton has reaped the profits you have predicted. But we must not let the others know the true depth of our success, Already Eanwulf and the others have learned of Black Kerr and the artist. They must not learn any more. They do not suspect how we have profited from both these raids and the consortium we share with them. We must be careful, however, for Klim has become suspi- cious of the true nature of our activities. We do not want his followers against our operations.
We shall not sell the woman Gold for she will never realize her worth on the block. You and I shall do much better to ransom her ourselves. Do not reveal her identity and arrange to send her here. Alforas will be traveling by the southern route to the mountains. He is discreet, so
A ре Мане 7 бен. ИАС
г»,
send her with him,
I agree—you should plan further raids of this type. I will see that all shipments come through your base. It should not be too hard for you to separate out the most
valuable stock for our special consider- ation. Through cooperation, we shall both make a profit.
Thy conspirator, Edralve
(This last letter has been placed with the others upon orders of Stalman Klim, rival of Edralve. Knowing the general goals of the player characters, he is attempting to make them the unwitting messengers of Edralve's doom. It is his intention to have the player characters carry this evidence all the way to Suderham and into the hands of the Inner Council, Once there, he is confident the player characters will be discovered and Edralve will be dealt with. Edralve currently knows nothing of this plan.)
46
Following the Trail
The information in the documents pro vides many clues the player characters wil have no difficulty following. The southerr trail into the mountains is well known anc generally shunned by all but the progeny o the wild interior. It leads into the Drachens grab Mountains where the orcish invasior came from. Most humans know very littl of the interior and those that do are bruta renegades, more savage than human.
The merchant Alforas is also well-knowr in Highport, although not necessarily well. loved. He is considered an active dealer ir the slave trade and is one of the few to travel unharmed into the interior. He left the city, after purchasing supplies for a caravan о! approximately 100, about two weeks ago. Although he did not announce his destina- tion, it is clear he was planning a trip inland. He and his caravan of slaves were spottec leaving by the southern trail.
The Hill Trails
When the characters are done in port, clues should point them to the tination of caravans sent forth periodi- ly, carrying picked groups of slaves. ny trails lead into the hills near port, but it is obvious (at least near the ) that only one of these is the southern il which the slave caravans supposedly low. The following sections assume that characters are on this southern trail, fol- ing the route of other slaver caravans. efore the wilderness journey begins, e what precautions the characters are ing to protect their identities. While they not likely to be identified by appear- e, there is little they can do to disguise e in most cases. Since they are entering area filled with evil humanoids, you may h to look over the Racial Preferences le (PH, page 18). The general reactions en there will help you decide the out- e of any encounter. Furthermore, if a racter wears a blazon or heraldic crest of nown enemy of the humanoids, this uld be noted, for it certainly arouses a tile reaction. f a ranger is with the party, the trail of the er caravans is not difficult to follow. If ranger is present, the party might lose its as per the Dungeon Masters Guide ge 49). However, the characters can hire alf-orc guide in Highport, thus eliminat- this possibility. This guide is never dly or sociable to the party and is cer- y never trustworthy. While he does not d to lead the party to destruction at the
re, he will quickly betray the party to or their allies if an opportunity arises.
characters' side to the absolute best of ability. He knows that the orcs, who ider him a renegade half-breed for con- ing with humans and worse, would con- him to a slow and painful death.
Chapter 4: Into the Wilderness
Orc guide: AC 6; MV 12"; LVL 4; hp 29; D 1-82; AL NE; sword +1
Once on their way, characters have the opportunity to meet with several groups liv- ing in the Pomarj hills. Most are tribes of humanoids; along the path the party is trav- eling exist goblins, gnolls, and flinds. Also surviving in the Drachensgrab hills, how- ever, is a small tribe of wild humans who live a precarious life. They are hunted actively by the humanoids in the area, con- sidered fair game for all to slay at will. The wildmen are on their last legs, for a human- oid tribe has captured the majority of the women and children of their tribe. A vile religious ceremony is quickly approaching, and the wildmen are growing desperate.
The humanoid tribes know of the passage of the slave caravans and have forged an agreement with the slavers concerning pas- sage. The slavers pay a toll based on the size of the caravan to each of the tribes as they pass through its territory. In return, the humanoids do not raid the caravans, indeed protecting the area from other bandits who might think to do so. Unless the party gives the humanoids cause to think otherwise, the humanoids believe them to be on slaver business, Thus, a quick-thinking group can bluff its way through many dangerous lands.
Each tribe, as described below, monitors the party's progress through the hills in its own way. Barring magical or extremely cau- tious means, it is unlikely that the human- oid tribes will be unaware of the characters' passage through their territory.
Random Wilderness Encounters
Below is a special random encounter table for the party's journey through the hills. One check on the encounter table should be made every day, rolling 1d20 (possibly modified as explained below).
47
Drachansarab Hills Encounters
Die той Result 1 Special 2-6  Humanoid patrol 7-8 Orc raiding party 9-12 Humanoid scout spotted 13-14 Wildman scout spotted”
15 Special 16 No encounter 17-20 Rain
* If within wildmen territory
For each roll of 17-20, add or subtract one from all further die rolls, modifying the die roll up or down toward the nearest special encounter, If the modified die roll calls for a special encounter, that encounter occurs, If any other encounter occurs, the result is treated as no encounter.
Explanation of Results
Special Encounter: When a special encounter occurs, choose or roll on the Spe- cial Encounters table to select which special encounter is used. Each special encounter can only be used once.
Note that some of these encounters can only occur in specific areas. The wildman encounter, for example, should only occur within wildmen territory. In this case, it may be best to select the encounter you wish to use.
Special Encounters
Dieroll Result
Wildmen's Quandary Mercy
Thundering Herd The Dogs
Wings!
That Old Orc Hustle
The special encounters are described in greater detail in the next section.
Humanoid patrol: A patrol of the humanoids is sighted by the party. Their type matches that of the territory the char- acters are in. If the party has paid all requested tolls and has not showed itself to be enemies, the patrol ignores the party.
о л یط ین‎ н
Otherwise, the patrols shadow the party, watching its movements while awaiting rein- forcements. Patrols have 4-16 individuals. The statistics for each type, including leaders, are given at the end of the list (or consult the FIEND FOLIO" Tome for flinds).
Orc raiding party: The humanoids of the Pomarj are hardly amiable. In this case, a large and powerful tribe of orcs to the east is making raids into the area. War bands of 20- 100 (1dé * 1d4x10) orcs are on the march. They are not party to any arrangements between the slave lords and the local tribes. They attack on sight and fight a fierce battle unless strong resistance is encountered.
Orc Raiding Party: AC 6, MV 9”, HD 1, hp 5, FAT 1, D 1-8 or 1-6, AL LE, armed with swords and spears, 50% have shortbows.
Orc Leaders
Sergeant: hp 8 (always 1 + 1/30 humanoids).
Corporal: hp 7 (always 3 + 3/30 human-
oids).
Subchief: AC 3; HD 2; hp 11; D 1-6 +3; ring of protection +2, cloak of protection +3, mace +2 (only present with bands of 80 or more orcs).
Bodyguards: AC 4; HD 2; hp 11; D 1-6 * 1; (12 present if with subchief).
Humanoid scout spotted: The party has spotted a lone humanoid. Observation reveals that he is patiently following the group. If the characters have paid all tolls and have not revealed themselves to be ene- mies, the scout may wave in a friendly man- ner or merely scoot away into the brush. If the characters have proven to be enemies of the tribe and the scout escapes, there is a 40% chance of an attempted ambush during the day, unless the characters leave the terri- tory of the tribe. A group of 21-30 human- oids attacks in the ambush (use the statistics listed under Humanoid Patrol).
Wildman scout spotted: In wildmen terri- tory this roll indicates that a player charac- ter spots a human spying upon them. Once spotted, a wildman flees immediately. Out- side of wildmen territory treat this roll as an additional humanoid scout spotted.
Rain: A steady rain pelts the characters for a few hours, soaking them thoroughly. Movement rates of all characters are slowed by one-third for the rest of the day as the ground has become slippery and muddy.
Special Encounters The Wildmen's Quandary Recently a band of humanoids raided the
wildmen's camp when the majority of the hunters were off in the wilderness. As a result, most of the wildmen's children, elders, and non-hunters (women and men alike) are now being held captive. Their exact fate is uncertain but they will surely all die unless rescued soon, and so the wildmen grow desperate with every passing day.
If the wildmen have observed the party traveling unmolested along the trail used by the slavers' caravans, the wildmen naturally assume them to be enemies. They devise a plan whereby they can recover their fellow tribe members. If they can capture the char- acters, they will barter with the humanoids for the return of the captured wildmen...or so they think, The wildmen hope that the humanoids will be reluctant to risk their profitable arrangement with the slavers. Such a lack of protection would certainly jeopardize any alliances.
If the characters have been fighting a run- ning battle with the various humanoid tribes of the area (for whatever reason), the wildmen send a small mission to the camp of the player characters, They are to ask for assistance in the rescue of the captives, in exchange for the wildmen's cunning guid- ance through the humanoid-infested terri- tory. If the player characters refuse, the wildmen resort to the other approach.
If the wildmen attempt to capture the player characters, the following plan is used.
Upon locating the player characters, the wildmen witch doctor uses his knowledge of herbs to mix a powerful sleeping draught. This is carefully poured into а stoppered gourd and given to one of the older chil- dren. The witch-doctor casts invisibility on the child, and the child attempts to sneak into the camp. There is only a 40% chance the child will make some uncharacteristic noise (a snapping twig, etc.). Still, player characters need to take appropriate actions to locate the source,
Once in the camp, the child pours the potion into the party's stew pot (or what- ever). The child then leaves the camp, with the same chance of causing a telltale noise. If captured, the child proves to be a young girl of 9 or so years, quite defiant to all ques- tions.
Meanwhile, the hunters and the witch doctor have been carefully encircling the camp. Resting and waiting at a distance of 90 to 120 feet (outside the range of detec- tion), they are worried and anxious about their little girl. If she is captured and becomes visible or is threatend, they attack instantly, firing their bows for a few rounds
48
before charging forward.
Each member of the party who ate dinner (everyone, in all but the most unusual cases) must make a saving throw ys. poison at -2 on the die. Those who fail their saving throw gradually become sleepy—hardly unusual. However, once asleep, drugged characters will not wake until morning. Those who make their saving throw feel tired and sleepy, are at -4 on all attack and saving throw rolls, and if put on watch must make a saving throw versus poison at -4 or doze off halfway through their watch. How- ever, they can be awakened during the night.
During the night the wildmen close in qui- etly, moving in a rush if someone on watch raises the alarm. Their desire is to capture the characters, not kill them.
If the wildmen capture some or all of the party, the characters are bound hand and foot, di ed, and watched closely. The wildmen are eager to convey that they are not interested in theft, or even the lives of the characters, They explain their predica- ment with the humanoids, and their wish to exchange the characters (who they believe to be slavers) for their fellow wildmen held by the humanoids.
At this juncture the characters have sev- eral options, They can keep mum about their true identities (though wildmen, paw- ing through their luggage, may uncover tal- ismans of good) and allow the wildmen to exchange them for the captives. They may choose to escape, or at least make an attempt. Or they may opt to reveal them- selves as agents of good.
If the characters keep their silence, the wildmen hold them prisoner for one day while they arrange the trade. The next night, the player characters are swapped for the captured wildmen in a midnight meet- ing. As much as they would like to, the humanoids do not attack at this time.
The player characters are handed over stark naked. They can demand basic equip- ment of their new hosts, The humanoids grudgingly give them battered and poor equipment. Should there be a racial antipa- thy to a character in the group, the human- oids refuse to outfit that character. Protesting too much only angers them. Once the characters are re-equipped (no magical items are available) the humanoids are eager to hunt down the wildmen and exact revenge, with the player characters in the lead, They can either agree (not a good action) or talk their way out of it very quickly.
If the characters manage to befriend the
E: < t E © ced
Y LINDAHN
АКЕ
wildmen, an offer is made to provide diver- sions and secret passage into and out of the area of the humanoid village where the wildmen captives are being held. The wild- men will not attack the humanoids directly, claiming their numbers are too few. If the characters wish, disguises can be arranged for them, so the humanoids will later think that wildmen perpetrated the deed. How- ever, this disguise prevents the characters from wearing anything better than leather armor.
The humanoid villages are described in the next section, along with specific infor- mation pertaining to the individual tribe to help flesh out the generic village map. Use this information when the characters make their raid. The wildmen can place the char- acters within sight of the humanoid village undetected, and the characters can invent three to six diversions for the wildmen to enact (as long as combat is not involved) during the rescue attempt. Details of how each tribe pursues the attackers are given in the appropriate tribal section.
Wildmen NPCs: Chieftain, 32 hunters, 2 children, 1 aged crone, and the tribal witch doctor.
Chieftain Morag: AC 8; MV 12^; LVL 5; hp 30; #AT 1; D 1-8 or 1-6; SA Track, sur- prise, plus vs. giant class; AL CG.
Hunters (32): AC 8; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 7; #AT 1; D 1-6; SA hide in shadows 20%, move silently 50%; AL CG; armed with clubs, spears, and longbows.
Witch doctor Kotto: AC 10; MV 12% C4/ MUA; hp 18; #AT 1; D 1-6; SA spells; AL NG.
Spells: affect normal fires, push, ventrilo- quism, invisibility, scare, cure light wounds (x2), light, chant, speak with animals.
Old crone: hp 3
Children: hp 2,4
Desperate, ragged, and on the edge of extinction, the tribe is rapidly losing its bat- tle against the humanoids.
The Quality of Mercy
The humanoids in the area regard the slavers with a bit of awe, as the leaders of the caravan (character types) have been seen to be personally powerful, If the player characters give the impression of being a small group of "leaders the humanoids turn to this party for assistance with their current troubles. Use this encounter only if the player characters are successfully posing as slave lords.
A representative of the appropriate humanoid tribe (goblin, gnoll, or flind, depending on the party's location) approaches the characters in a friendly man- ner. In halting, clumsy Common, the humanoid explains the predicament faced by his tribe. Read the following to the characters:
"Many fine greets, wise ones! | Flubbort, na-chief, top sergeant. Wise boss Chop- ear send Flubbort trade you.” He straightens himself a little bit before slouching again. "Iribe have trouble a little an animal, you mean, a beast. It
kill, oh, some, maybe mean many, war- riors. It scare away deer, no hunting good. We many long hunt way. No good. Chop-ear know you kill animal? Deal good no charge you come again. Say you what say, wise ones?"
With difficulty, Flubbort manages to describe a huge bear which no one can harm, The bear can tear even great warriors apart in short order and is known to have a cave nearby. Flubbort has great respect for the bear, but seems confident that the char- acters would be able to handle the fearsome creature.
Flubbort has been instructed by Chop-ear to bargain with the characters if necessary. The most that Flubbort can offer in pay- ment is three "free passes" for slaver cara- vans. He is extremely reluctant to go to that length, however, and does his best to con- vince the characters to take the offer of one, or perhaps two, toll-less trips.
The bear is a huge were-bear named Growl who has begun to forget having been human. Often, he neglects to change to human form for months at a time. Aging now, the werebear was driven from his old territory and has come to this area as a result. His mind is clouded and vague, and he attacks viciously any who threaten him. He cannot be communicated with except through werebear or magical means.
His den is a small cave, 15 feet deep and 7 feet wide with an opening 5 feet high and 6 feet wide. He will be found inside the cave, at the farthest point from the door. In the rear of the cave, the werebear can stand and attack normally, while in front of him at best two characters (using smallish weap- ons) can engage him in melee with a penalty of -1 on their attack rolls. His cave is strewn with rubble, making a silent approach impossible.
The characters should be able to easily
remove Growl from the world of the living. If they attack and kill Growl, apply Growl's XP number as a negative value to each good character who supported or did not attempt to stop Growl's death. If the characters choose to talk to Growl, however, and man- age to convince Growl to leave the area or stop chasing the deer (which he can't catch anyway), apply his XP value as a bonus to each character. Feel free to modify this proc- ess to suit your campaign; the idea essen- tially being that Growl is a good (if gruff and confused) being and that heroes just don't slay good beings at will.
If the mission is a success, Flubbort dashes off to his tribe with the good news, If the situation is not resolved, Flubbort tosses off a few snide remarks in his native tongue before leaving quietly.
Growl: AC 2; MV 9”; HD 7+3; hp 51; #АТ 3; D 1-4/1-4/2-12; SA hug for 2-20; SD hit by silver or +1 and better weapons only; AL NG.
A Thundering Herd
As the characters follow the trail through a small ravine, a predator at the far end frightens a herd of hill antelope. Panicked, these stream into the ravine, filling it from side to side, buffeting the characters and possibly knocking them down. Fortunately, hill antelope are very small (one-half of a hit die) and can do no grievous damage to the characters. Each character in the ravine suf- fers 1-10 points of damage. The predators, upon hearing the human cries in the ravine, quietly fade away into the brush.
This encounter has no effect on the adven- ture unless a player character tries to elimi- nate the herd through some magical means. If a large number of the antelope are killed, a humanoid from the local tribe approaches the party 12-24 hours later demanding com- pensation for the lost antelope. The repre- sentative is alone save for a small escort, and asks a compensation of 1 gp per antelope slain. Argument raises the price per head of antelope. Refusing to pay, while not resulting in outright attack, sours further dealings with the local humanoid tribes.
The Dogs
This encounter begins early in the eve- ning, while the characters travel through the hills. Read the following to the players:
Just before you begin considering where to camp for the evening, a faint baying
sound reaches your ears. From no partic- ular direction, the baying is a minute tre-
ble note that hangs in the air like a sickly odor.
The baying is the hunting cry of a large pack of dogs pursuing a much reduced moon dog. Miles away and days ago Rover (the moon dog) entered an undead lair, where he had a most unfortunate series of encounters with a vampire and its cohorts. Several energy level drains later, the moon dog fled as best he could with one leg crip- pled and a painful, slow poison clawing at his consciousness. He was promptly pur- sued by a large number of death dogs led by a sprinkling of devil dogs. Hounded (as it were) for more than two days, the moon dog is growing very weak. The poison has not left his system, his vitality is quickly ebbing, and his voice is growing hoarse.
As the night progresses, the baying increases in volume and eeriness. Any ranger in the party gets the impression that the howling is unnatural. As the baying grows very near, an occasional ragged bay- ing silences the other baying temporarily. That particular baying sounds different: less unearthly, albeit still eerie.
Then, a dog-like form, shadowy in the darkness and dim moonlight, shambles into view. At first glance it appears to be approx- imately 3 feet high at the shoulder. As it stops and peers into the camp, however, it does something very un-doglike: it extends what, in the darkness, appears to be a hand. The howls that have been approaching all evening are now very close, and in the dis- tance many red glowing eyes can be seen reflecting the firelight At this point, the party has the opportunity to take one round of action if they wish. Once they do, read on, if appropriate:
The dog like form staggers closer. Clearly, it is limping. A festering wound glistens on one rear leg. The creature has a human like head, you. notice as it speaks. “Help me,” it gasps hoarsely.
“Much trouble coming. The hounds of As it speaks, you all
death are near!" suddenly remember tales of woe and horror, of evil things they prowl the night in the form of dogs! Then, the hound thing collapses near you. All around, the baying has continued unabated. It appears you are sur-
rounded! Suddenly, the baying stops.
The chirping of crickets and crackling of the fire are all you hear.
If the characters did not specify a particu- lar campsite, it is an open clearing. Bushes grow here and there, but there are no trees to speak of. Allow any characters on foot outside of the character's camp the opportu- nity to return; if they refuse they are beset by dogs in the next melee round. For the rest of the party there is a two melee round lull during which the dogs surround the camp. Many yips and barks that sound like lan- guage can be heard in the darkness. At a dis- tance of 60 to 90 feet dogs form a huge circle.
If the characters cure the moon dog, he regains consciousness and becomes aware of his surroundings. If the poison in his sys- tem is neutralized, he regains his powers in six melee rounds. Once the lull has passed, the devil dogs and the death dogs charge immediately, bursting out of the darkness with a chorus of howls. They fight until 60% of them are dead or the moon dog is able to use his powers again.
The moon dog has recently escaped from a fearsome battle and its normal powers are greatly reduced. If cured, use those statistics given in parentheses, as these are his full abilities. In addition, his special abilities are reduced until the poison within his system is neutralized. He can only bay at half effect (range 40 feet, save at +4), howl at half effect (range 20 feet, D 1-4), and use no other special abilities, If his poison is nulli- fied he regains his full special abilities after six rounds. If the party neglects to cure or otherwise revive the moon dog he is unable to help during the melee.
The devil dogs are relatives of the north- ern devil dogs that have adapted to more temperate conditions. If their die roll to hit is 4 or more higher than the number they needed to hit (or a 20), the victim's throat has been attacked. Damage is doubled and the victim is comatose for 2-8 melee rounds. These dogs lead the death dogs through yips and yaps, and are extremely eager to kill the moon dog. If they succeeed, a retreat is signalled.
If the combat does not go well for the characters and they need assistance, you may consider having the moon dog deliri- ously bay or howl, then lapse into uncon- sciousness again. If the moon dog survives and the battle is won, he eventually regains consciousness even if not cured by the party. He thanks the characters for their assist-
51
ance. If the party cured or nullified the poison in his system, he offers a one-time favor: his assistance in the form of advice at some time in the future. All the characters need do is call upon him and he will guide them as best he can. He will only do this once.
Moon dog: AC 2, 0, or -2; MV 15" (30"); HD 8 * 16; hp 17 (43); #AT 1; D3-12; SA see above; SD see above; MR 25%;
AL NG.
Devil dogs (5): AC 6; MV 30”; HD 6; hp 27, 25, 30, 35, 29: AC 6; #AT 1; D 2-8: SA throat attack; SD none; AL CE.
Death dogs (40): AC 7; МУ 12"; HD 2+1; hp 9 each; AC 7; #AT 2; D 1-10/1-10; SA disease, knockdown; AL N.
A giant pterosaur, driven from its lair in the Drachensgrab Hills by younger compe- tition, spots the characters from on high as they trudge along the road. It dives to the attack, intending to pick up a morsel for lunch.
The pterosaur attacks once; if successful, it carries the character into the air (unless the character weighs 250 lbs, or more). It then carries the character aloft for 10-20 rounds before dropping him or her to (almost) certain death. If the big lizard is injured by its passenger, the passenger is dropped immediately. The giant pterosaur makes only one pass in any case.
Giant pterosaur: AC 5; MV 37/12“ (MC:D); HD 6 * 6; hp 41; /AT 1; D 3-12; SA surprise attack; SD none; AL N
That Old Orcish Hustle
The nearby orc tribe, in addition to ran-
dom raiding parties, has decided to try and "horn in" on the toll road business.
Кие wp desde perde led by a powerful sub-chief and with ogre and ver- beeg allies, to post itself along the trail between the current territories of two existing humanoid tribes (you decide exactly where).
After several hours on the trail, the char- acters see ahead a band of armed creatures, A small group of man-sized humanoids is standing on the trail behind a barricade of recently cut trees while more can be seen among the trees to either side. Disappointed at not seeing an entire caravan, the orcs con- sole themselves, believing the characters to be a small group of slaver "leaders" travel- ing to the slavers' stockade. Greedily, the orcs dream up an outrageous toll, believing the slavers to be so rich they don't care about such "small change.”
Standing at attention on the trail are seven orcs, one obviously a leader and the others in chain mail with swords. The leader, who stands a head higher than his companions, swaggers forward to greet you. "Welcome to the territory of the Crooked Claw clan; he says in
excellent Common. “It is too bad you do not lead a caravan,” he continues, "for you look to be fine and terrible persons of adventure. Now,” and he ahems dra- matically, "about the toll...1, Pluug of Crooked Claw, have been empowered by my chief to collect it.”
At this point, Pluug grins hideously at the party and begins looking them over. If the party objects or voices doubts, Pluug argues and haggles with them. If they still refuse, he plays his tramp card—with a hand sig- nal, a tinny horn blasts and the orc infantry on either side of the road stand at ready, revealing much greater numbers than had been visible before. Once the characters agree to the payment of a toll, read the fol- lowing:
“So? The toll? My chief has instructed me to be munificent, this fine, sunny day. Three hundred pieces of gold for each one of you fine, strong looking persons to pass and remain unmolested. If you have not the cash, well, I have been instructed to accept weapons of quality at whatever value they possess. If you please, could we transact quickly? My troops are wearied by this daylight, and I would dislike to keep them up and about in it needlessly, if you take my meaning."
Pluug ahems dramatically once again before looking expectantly at the player characters.
Weapons are worth triple their book value if in at least average condition. Unu- sual weapons are worth either nothing or six times their value depending on the utility of the weapon to the orcs, If the characters hedge, or look ready to flee, Pluug signals his fighters to appear (if he hasn't already). If the characters attack the small group fac- ing them, Pluug retreats, signaling for the verbeegs and orc archers to begin firing. If Pluug thinks that he might be victorious, he might order an attack. If the characters manage to capture, kill, or subdue Pluug the orcs attack ferociously, losing their usual -1 to hit penalty in daylight. In this case the verbeegs stay on the periphery of the battle,
joining in only if victory seems likely, so as to be able to join in on the spoils. Standing in the road are:
Pluug (orc leader): AC 3; MV 12"; HD 5; hp 31; AC 3; #AT 1; D by weapon type; ALLE.
Pluug is a sub-chief of great power and repute. He owns a shield +1 and wields a longsword. His intent is to intimidate the slavers into paying the toll he requests. Not having the guts to commit his troops against specialists (spellcasters and the like), Pluug is more bark than bite.
Orc bodyguards (6): AC 4; MV 12^; HD 3; hp 13, 15, 16, 14, 18, 17; AC 4; #AT 1; D by weapon type; AL LE.
These bodyguards are armored in chain mail and shield, Each is armed with a long- sword and a shortbow. Their duty is to pro- tect Pluug and they even use their bodies as shields against missile fire if ordered to.
Both Pluug and the bodyguards gain the benefit of 50% cover.
In the trees on the left side of the road are
Ores (30): AC 6; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 6 each; #AT 1; D halberds 1-10/hand axes 1-4; AL LE,
These are trained troops with orders not to risk extensive casualties. They use their halberds in formation, albeit a loose one. One of their group is a sergeant with 11 hp. The trees provide 2596 cover from missile fire.
On the right side of the road, also in the trees, are:
Ores (20): AC 6; MV 12”; HD 1; hp 4 each; #AT 1; D short bow 1-6/dagger 1-4; AL LE.
These are trained archers with orders to avoid melee absolutely. They use their mis- sile fire to best effect by targeting obvious spellcasters. One of the group is a sergeant with 9 hit points. The trees provide the orcs with 2595 cover from missile fire.
Verbeegs (10): АС 4; MV 18”; HD 5+5; hp 33 each; #AT 2; D thrown spear 5-10 or huge club 5-12; AL NE.
These mercenaries fight well but avoid dangerous situations. They each have six spears for throwing; their range is 7" (70 yards outdoors) because of their unusual Strength.
If there is a battle, Pluug commands the troops from behind the safety of the log bar- ricade. Knowing full well the effect of spells, he has spaced his troops widely apart, 5 feet between each, At the start of a battle, his bodyguard attempts to hold the barricade
52
while the archers and verbeeg use missile weapons against the rear ranks. Most of the halberdiers swarm around the end of the barricade to strike the party in the flank while others fill the gaps left by fallen bodyguards.
If the fight goes badly, Pluug orders a gradual retreat, the halberdiers preventing any charges while the archers maintain à harassing fire on the pursuers.
The Tribes
The trail of the slaver caravans leads through the territories of three humanoid tribes: that of the goblins, the gnolls, and the flinds. Each has a central village, hunts the local game for sustenance, and has an agreement with the slavers regarding pas- sage through their territories. Each group regards its territory as sacrosanct against intrusion and hesitates to enter the territory of another tribe. Some communication exists between them, but cooperation is rare except on very important matters, such as the hunting of common enemies.
There is one generic village map for all three tribes; tailor it to fit any situation which requires detail. Each village is some way from the trail (2-8 miles) and is well guarded from intrusion. Each tribe has some specific notes to differentiate it from the others.
The Hill Beater Goblins
The goblins of the area call themselves the Hill Beaters. Arms typical for this tribe are club and spear, while leaders and guards bear short swords or military picks and spears. Many of the non-combatants have been trained in the use of slings.
The Hill Beaters prefer surprise attacks to frontal assaults and always attempt to flank their enemies before attacking. In defense of their village they fight to the death, but oth- erwise they are easy to rout.
Upon entering their territory, the player characters will be approached by a delega- tion of 20 goblins assigned to collect the toll. The toll they request of the slavers is usually 1 cp per slave, 1 sp per guard, 5 sp per leader, and a gold piece per wagon. The goblins assume that all non-fighter types are leaders, with the others being guards. They do not attempt to raise their price according to the circumstances.
The Hill Beaters are at a disadvantage when dealing with the nearby gnolls and often are forced to placate them with offer- ings and gifts. Consequently, there is little
wealth in the village. The goblin practice of taking slaves for themselves (for torture or undesirable work) is looked on with approval by the nearby humanoid tribes, as long as the slaves aren't gnolls or flinds!
A total of 390 goblins inhabit the area, with 330 or so inhabiting the village proper. In the village, 130 are hunter/warriors (5-7 hp each), 160 are villagers (2-7 hp each) and the rest either the aged or children (1-5 hp each). Of the hunter/warriors, 3-18 are always absent on scouting duty, 10-60 are hunting and not in the village, while the rest, minus the chief and his retinue, are in the village. The remaining 60 goblins that do not inhabit the village are political ene- mies of the chief and his cronies, young gob- lins recently undergoing their rite of passage, the shaman and his pupils, cripples driven out to die, ex-chieftains forced into exile, the deranged, and the just plain unso- ciable. They live in secluded portions of the tribes territory. Many provide valuable service, acting as permanent lookouts along various parts of the border.
Goblins; AC 6; МУ 6"; HD 1-1; hp see above; #AT 1; D 1-6; ALLE.
Generic Map Notes
Animal Pens: These are currently holding the fruit of the chiefs latest experiment, breeding wolves. He is attempting to have them trained, but with little luck, Also in the pens are a few political dissenters, des- tined to be wolf food. Unfortunately, the wolves are developing the taste for goblin, which makes them even wilder. If the wolves get loose they will attack the nearest goblins, springing away with their prey.
The Cave Entrance: This is heavily guarded at all times. The chieftain, his bodyguard, and their goblin women have claimed this as their den. It also serves as the point of last defense for the village.
In the cave are the armory and treasure chambers of the tribe. The first contains an assortment of battered weapons; the second contains 3,000 sp, the entire horde of the tribe. This is hidden in the floor of the main chamber in a pit filled with poisonous insects. These pour out of the pit when it is opened, swarming over everyone in the cave unless raw meat is thrown nearby to distract them. The swarms cause 2-5 points of dam- age and take three rounds to brush away.
Chief Nose-bender: AC 4; HD 2; hp 13; D 2-8.
Chief's Bodyguard (x5): AC 4; HD 2; hp 10; D 2-8.
Sub-chief Ear-poker: AC 5; HD 1 +1; hp 8; D 1-8,
Sub-chief Bodyguard (x4): AC 5; HD 1+1; hp 7; D 1-8.
Watchtower: Four keen-eyed goblins are always on watch in the tower at the top of the hill.
The Palisade: This is 5 feet high and made of sharpened stakes. Ringing the inside is an earthen platform 2 feet high. The palisade forms the first line of defense against a major attack. The common tactic is to retreat into the palisade and then line sling- ers on the platform, concentrating missile fire over its low height.
Slave Cages: If the wildmen are held by the goblins, they are penned in the cages near the hill.
Reactions
Battle Tactics: If the goblin village comes under attack, all goblins know to enter the palisade with whatever weapons they have handy. The chief gathers his full retinue and all the warriors in the village. Once the threat has been identified, the chief forms a loose mob of sling-armed villagers to harry the enemy from the front (or defend the pal- isade) while the warriors form two (or more) groups to attack the enemy's flanks (or burst from the palisade). If a pursuit is necessary, only the warriors participate while scouts keep abreast of the enemy's movements.
Trading: The goblins gladly trade the cap- tive wildmen for the player characters if that situation comes to pass. The chief of the Hill Beaters has no wish to antagonize the slavers, and so will generally agree to poor terms if pressed on any issue. The tribe is also particularly eager to trade for useful items, offering what little it has in return.
The Kerrla Gnolls
In the gnoll tongue, this means “vile epi- thets,” a name the tribe bears with pride, explaining they are so fearsome their ene- mies can only resort to swearing. The tribe is somewhat atypical. Unlike most other bands of gnolls, the Lay Kerrs have settled down. This is due in part to the organizing influence of the nearby flinds, who cur- rently provide part of the tribal leadership.
Arms typical for this tribe are pole arms and battle axes, with leaders bearing two- handed swords. The better hunters of the tribe employ longbows. The warriors of the tribe are roughly organized into commands and do their best to fight in regular forma-
53
tions. These formations are slow, clumsy, and fragile (nowhere approaching the skill of well-trained human troops), but against local enemies the gnolls are proving to be very dangerous opponents. Like all gnolls they prefer to be the stronger party in any conflict, and even in defense of their village they may abandon the area if faced with a significantly stronger force. They perceive force as being almost entirely a function of numbers.
When the player characters enter their territory, the gnolls greet them with a care- fully prepared ambush. They do not attack, but send a delegation of three to collect the toll while the remaining 30 watch from places of cover with weapons ready. The toll they levy from passing caravans is 1 cp per slave, 1 sp per guard, 10 sp per leader, and 2 gp per wagon. The Kerrla charge more than the Hill Beaters out of their feeling of super- iority. If the party agrees too readily to the toll, there is a slight chance that the toll col- lector may assume that most or all of the party are "leaders" and will accordingly demand a higher fare.
The Kerrla greatly respect the flinds and despise the nearby goblins. They take any opportunity to impress the flinds or humili- ate the Hill Beaters, However, they do not attack the goblins outright for fear that the flinds may take advantage of their absence to attack the gnolls' village.
Their coffers are a bit fatter from extort- ing money from the Hill Beaters now and then, but most of the surplus goes to the flind weapon makers for the purchase of pole arms and other weapons the gnolls do not make for themselves.
A total of 280 gnolls live in the area, all of whom inhabit the village. Of this number, 110 are hunter/warriors (20 of whom use longbows), 100 are villagers, and the rest are children. The Kerrla do not allow the old to live past their years of usefulness to the tribe. The hunters spend as little time as possible hunting, so only 10-40 of them are gone at any time.
Gnolls: AC 5; MV 9”; HD 2; hp9; #AT 1; D
2-8; AL CE.
Chief Clay Mane: AC 3; HD 4; hp 22; D 4- 10 * 1.
The gnoll chief is cowardly and acts to save his own skin before acting to save his tribe. He jealously guards the tribe's only magical item, a two-handed sword +1. It has many evil runes indelibly inscribed upon it.
Chiefs Bodyguard (15): AC 4; HD 3; hp 20;
D 3-9.
Generic Map Notes
Animal Pens: These pens contain ante- lope. Under the influence of the flinds, the Kerrla are attempting to practice animal husbandry. They have, however, no natural aptitude for it, being generally disinterested in the project. Thus, care of the animals falls upon the weakest and most disfavored of the tribe. Furthermore, whenever a hunter gets too weary of hunting, he simply snatches an animal from the pens. The remaining breeding stock is scrawny and does not serve the tribe well.
The Cave: The gnolls do not have a natu- ral cave under their hill. Impressed by their spies' reports of the goblin defenses, they have begun hollowing out a cave under their hill. Only the first 10-foot section of the cave is open.
The Watchtower: This tower is small and simple, as the lazy gnolls got tired of build- ing it after only 25 feet or so. Although there is supposed to be a guard on duty at all times, one is present only 80% of the time,
The Palisade: This wall is the one project the gnolls have finished. It is 8 feet high, with a mound in the center allowing defenders to see over the wall. Near this mound are the huts of the chief and his bodyguard. The bulk of the tribal treasure—2,000 ep, 1,000 gp, and 4 gems— is hidden under a rock within the palisade. Two gnoll skeletons rest over it, obviously the poor souls who dug the hole. The remaining  treasure—two pieces of jewelry—are in a large clay coffer in the chiefs quarters, untrapped. Апу gnoll of the tribe swears if questioned, however, that the treasure is cursed for any who touch it with- out the chief's permission.
The Slave Pens: If the wildmen are held by the gnolls, most are in the slave cages. A few are in the cave, digging it deeper.
Reactions
Tactics: If the gnoll village comes under attack the Kerrla rely on their leaders to tell them exactly what to do. If the attack is sud- den and powerful, it is likely that nothing can be organized to repel it. If a defense can be mustered, the gnolls attempt to form pole arm phalanxes, but may well end up charg- ing more or less simultaneously,
Trade: If they are asked to trade their cap- tives for captured party members, the gnolls do so. Any sign of weakness, however, is exploited, just as signs of strength are greatly respected. The gnoll chief will attempt to squeeze more out of the deal if he spots any opportunity to do so safely. The
gnolls are also greatly interested in other items—weapons and magic being foremost on their minds. Characters will be contin- ually besieged by offers for their equipment.
The Veela Flinds
In the gnoll tongue, veela means "the vic- torious.” This tribe of flinds is the most pow- erful of the three tribes described here. Arms typical for this tribe are many; the flinds are clever enough to practice military flexibility and precision. Their infantry employ pole arms in well trained phalanxes while their shock troops use two-handed swords to great effect. They also have a size- able force of archers armed with longbows and battle axes. Unlike most flinds, how- ever, few use the flindbar. The Veela prefer to use maneuver and timing in mass combat situations, remembering the proper use of a reserve to clinch tense situations in their favor.
Upon entering their territory, the player characters will be greeted by a delegation of six flinds. The player characters must main- tain a good deception, for the flinds are very perceptive and intelligent. The toll they request of the slavers is 2 cp per slave, 2 sp per guard, 1 gp per leader, and 5 gp per wagon. In return for this grandiose toll, the flinds parade their precision troops for the party as they pass through the territory. No orc patrols or war parties will be encoun- tered while these reviews are underway.
The flinds enjoy the top dog position among the three tribes listed. They are the sole weapon producers of the area, have the most advanced animal husbandry tech- niques, and are even beginning to experi- ment with farming on a small scale. What income they receive in the sale of weapons they usually invest in ores (purchased from Highport) or gems. They are planning to unite the three tribes to show the constantly raiding orcs just who's boss, with a mass raid sometime in the future.
A total of 260 flinds inhabit the area, all of whom live in the village. Of this number, 40 are purely warriors (14-19 hp each), 70 are hunter/warriors, 100 are villagers, and the rest children. Like the Kerrla, the Veelas do not allow their old and feeble to live.
Flinds: AC 5; МУ 12”; HD 2+3; hp 14; /AT 1; D 1-8; AL LE.
Chief Blackfur: AC 3; HD 3 +3; hp 23; D 1- 10 *1.
The flind chief employs a special
weapon—a flindbar +3 with double the normal chances to disarm an opponent.
54
Those not proficient in the use of the flind- bar may still profit from the bonus to hit, but do not gain the increased chance to dis- arm.
Chief's Bodyguard: AC 4; HD 3; hp 20; D 1-10.
Generic Map Notes
Animal Pens: The flind pens are filled with a variety of local wildlife—antelope, deer, wolves, and rabbits. While none of the projects are a failure, the rabbits and deer have been most successful. A guard is posted outside the pens at all times to drive off poachers and wild beasts.
Watch Tower: The tower is 40 feet high and armed with a ballista (Range 32^; ROF 1/2; D 2-12 small, 3-18 large; crew 4). Some special loads for the ballista exist; oil, smaller multiple staves (fires several bolts along a small path, 5 causing 1-6 points each, separate roll to hit for each), and "howler" bolts that whistle through the air and cause 1-8 points of damage.
The Palisade: The wall is a full 12 feet high, with ramped earth, logs, and stones. It has archery slits and a small ditch in front of it filled with sharp stakes.
The treasure of the flinds—1,000 ep, 1,000 gp, 2,000 pp, 3 gems, and 8 pieces of jewelry —is hidden in metal containers sunk in the main village well inside of the stock- ade.
The Cave: The flinds do not use the cave as living quarters, as this goes against their nature. Instead the cavern is filled with dried goods, stored food, and trade items worth 2,000 gp in total.
Slave Pens: If the wildmen were captured by the flinds, most have, sadly, already been slain and the pens are empty. Some few remain in the chiefs retinue while а few oth- ers are employed as slaves, carrying water or moving dung.
Reactions
Tactics: If the village is attacked an alarm is raised immediately, most often by a howl- ing bolt fired from the ballista. There are bolts of different pitches, each indicating an attack from a different quarter. Upon the signal, the flinds immediately take their weapons and form into companies. If the opponent is outnumbered, the flinds launch an attack, pinning the attention of the attackers to the front while other groups maneuver onto the flanks. Archery is pre- ferred over direct contact. If the opponent is strong, but not overwhelming, the flinds
ttempt to lure them into the village where hey can be ambushed and attacked from any directions. As a last resort, the flinds etreat to the palisade. They do not like this ption, since it limits their ability to move bout. In the palisade, common flind efense tactics include allowing an enemy to our over one section of a wall, then trap- ing the enemy against the wall with a arge by the elite warriors.
Trade: The flinds gladly trade the wild- en for any presumed slave lords, but also ispatch scouts to follow the wildmen and elect an ambush. They want to eradicate e wildmen tribe once for all. The flinds sk the player characters, if this comes to cur, if they would like to be in on the kill” Any refusal requires the characters ive some reason. The player characters ust be careful not to arouse the suspicion Е the flinds.
In other types of trading, the player char- cters will discover the flinds are shrewd argainers. They have gained much experi- nce in dealing with the other tribes of the a and human merchants. They are very terested in magical items, tools, and train- in skills they do not possess. They have ttle need of weapons, as they manufacture ost of their own(and those of the other ibes),
The Runaway Slave
In the tournament version of A2, Secret
ion necessary to enter the stockade secretly. this campaign version, the escaped slave actually one of the guests from Dame old's party! Unfortunately, just as the umanoids of the area assume that the char- cters are slaver lords, so does this escapee ume that the characters are mortal ene- ies. However, if the characters can get lose to the escapee, he recognizes them and cooperates,
The player characters first notice the escapee as they: have noticed the. various humanoid scouts—as a silhouette on the horizon watching them and attempting to avoid notice. When the characters approach, the slave flees. He is exhausted and can only move at a rate of 9”. However, hecan only be found by a person with track- ing skill or by looking from the air.
If the characters fail to find the slave, he shadows their movements for the rest of the day. That night, hungry, ill dressed, and desperate, he lurks beyond the firelight of the character's camp. Finally, he decides that even if the characters are slavers, he must risk an attempt to steal food and clothing in order to survive.
Creeping close to the camp under cover of darkness, the former slave observes the movements of the characters. Bundling a rock in a ragged piece of cloth, he makes a sap and lies in wait for an unalert victim, The slave tries to knock the person uncon- scious. A successful hit has a 5% chance of rendering a victim unconscious, assuming the victim is not wearing a helm. The ex- slave does gain bonuses for a rear attack. If successful, he strips the character of every- thing useful. This takes 2-20 rounds. When finished, the ex-slave departs hastily in the general direction of Highport.
Party members have a 1 in 12 chance of hearing a thump or other suspicious noise the round of the attack, and a 1 in 20 chance to hear a suspicious noise while the ex-slave searches an unconscious party member. An unconscious character revives in 3-12 rounds of his or her own accord but can be revived in one round by being slapped or having water splashed on his face. Of course, if the victim revives when the slave is present, he is again knocked unconscious. The ex-slave will not kill the character, hav- ing qualms about such a foul deed.
If the characters pursue the ex-slave (who still is under the impression that the charac- ters are slavers), he is not terribly hard to catch, but a serious effort must be made.
55
Once cornered, the ex-slave recognizes the characters and surrenders, apologizing pro- fusely for mistaking them for the enemy. When asked for an explanation of how and why he came to be on the trail to Highport, he has this to say:
"| escaped by hiding in the courtyard after the caravan arrived. | was not counted, and so after waiting for dark- ness, | worked my way to the outer wall. There I found rope and clambered down from the second story. I know little of the defenses, my friends, but I do know that hobgoblins are many within the stock- ade, and some weird snuffling creature helps them guard the walls. It almost caught me. I could hear it's snuffling noises as it came nearer and nearer. A wind came up, though, and the moan of it screened out the snuffling noises. When the wind died down, I could hear nothing. It must have been the provi- dence of the gods that | was not caught then.”
The ex-slave can travel, but cannot par- ticipate in penetrating the slaver's stockade. If the characters do not suggest that he remain outside during the adventure, he makes the suggestion, He does not, under any circumstances, wish to travel alone back to Highport.
If the slave escapes, is killed by the char- acters before they can recognize him, or is in some other manner prevented from telling the above tale, the characters do not know of the rope. Subsequently, they have a much harder time infiltrating the stockade. This encounter should occur close to the stock- ade itself, no more than a day's travel away.
Escaped slave: AC 10; MV 12" (9"); HD 1; hp 3; #AT 1; D by weapon; ALLG
Chapter 5:
The Slavers' Stockade
After traversing the dangerous lands of the Pomarj, the characters sight a small stock- ade situated atop a high, steep hill that sur- veys the countryside. A warding ditch 20 feet wide and 10 feet deep surrounds the fort. The only access road winds down from the north, through a narrow valley, up to the drawbridge that spans the ditch.
Hill Fort Description
The hill fort is a combination of recent construction and the remains of an older stone fortress. The outer wall of the hill fort is an earthen rampart topped by a wooden stockade. However, the curtain wall con- taining the drawbridge is made of stone. The wall is 35 feet high and is topped by a stone parapet which is constantly manned. The curtain wall is connected to the rest of the fort by the rampart and stockade.
The ground slopes upward from the cur- tain wall, and some distance back, across an open courtyard, is the gatehouse. This is of massive construction, four stories high, with a stone parapet atop it, so that all sides can be defended. The rampart and stockade connect to the gatehouse and surround the fort keep.
The keep abuts the rampart on three sides, with a parade ground to the north between the main building and the gate- house. The fort was originally a single story stone building, but the slavers have added a wooden guard post as a partial second story. The entrance to the main building is recessed back and an enclosed garden leads from the building's entrance to the parade ground.
The rampart and stockade surround the fort on the west, south, and east sides and join the curtain wall to the north. The outer face of the walls and stockade are fitted with downward sloping spikes to prevent attack- ers from scaling the walls. The stockade has a walkway on all sides, the walkway being 15 feet above the main building's first floor. Guards patrol the walkway, and the top of the gatehouse and curtain wall, but it is impossible to estimate numbers from a dis- tance.
The curtain wall, the gatehouse, and the main building are all built of stone. The ceil- ings and walls of rooms and corridors are made of stone. The ceilings in the east and west wings, however, are made of plaster over wood hung on wooden rafters.
The floors are wood. Wooden beams are used to reinforce weak sections of the stone buildings. The stockade is wooden, as is the wall walk and the pavilion overhang in the open garden section of the U-shaped main building. The inner courtyards are nothing but rock-strewn mud flats, The only vegeta- tion (besides mold and mildew) are the trees in the garden surrounded by the main build-
ing.
The hill fort shows signs that it has been sacked in the past. Some of the stones are blackened as though by fire. Some areas of stonework shows signs of ancient destruc- tion from catapult and trebuchet attacks. These holes have been crudely repaired. The stockade is of more recent construction than the rest of the hill fort. Close examination shows that the stockade has been built directly behind the remains of a stone foun- dation where an outer perimeter wall once stood.
The humanoids in the hill fort do not care whether it is clean. As a result, both the fort and the dungeon are filthy. The floors are covered with dust, and trash is scattered about the rooms and corridors. The walls are covered with grime, mildew, and cob- webs. Broken or rotted furniture is thrown into corners rather than repaired. The entire pláce is infested with rats, spiders, and other foul vermin.
Doors are heavy wood and open out into the corridor unless otherwise noted. Typi- cally they are locked and must be forced open, or the lock must be picked.
All hallways are 10 feet wide and 10 feet high unless otherwise noted. Secret passage- ways are 5 feet wide and 8 feet high. Ceilings in the aboveground buildings are 14 to 20 feet high.
Because of the dust and muck on the floors, the only tracks that can be seen are shapeless blobs where the dust has been dis- turbed. Something of the frequency of tra-
56
vel in an area can be gathered from the tracks, but nothing of the types of creatures that have passed.
Hill Fort Strategy
Once a party of adventurers is detected inside the fort, the guards raise the alarm by whatever means are available. If an alarm gong is used, the upper level of the fort is alerted at the end of that turn. If the alarm is shouted, the fort is alerted at the end of the next turn. The dungeon level becomes alerted one turn after the fort.
Once the fort is alerted, guards in bar- racks spend one turn donning armor and preparing to fight. Prepared guards move to block the ground-level entrances to all buildings. Guards on the walls harass invaders with missile fire. The fort strategy is basically defensive and concentrates on delaying the invaders as much as possible.
Once the fort is alerted, no one will be found asleep or unarmed.
If the characters retreat and return later, they should find the defenses strengthened and ambushes prepared.
If the characters surrender, they are com- pletely disarmed. Markessa then questions them about what they know of the slavers' activities, using any means, including tor- ture. Once she has learned everything she can, Markessa immediately has all spellcast- ers executed and everyone else sent to dungeon area 28c, where it is assumed they will be killed and eaten by the cavelings.
Random NPC Leader Placement
There are eight leaders in the slaver's stockade. Markessa is a minor slave lord and all the others work for her. Icar is the fort commander and his second in com- mand is the ogre called Executioner. Black- thorn is a special agent of the Slave Lord High Council, but operates as Markessa's lieutenant.
In addition there are the goblin witch doc- tor, Guliyet, who is assistant to Markessa, and the hobgoblin shaman, Adhu Nazaryet, who serve as the fort's clerics. These two can
Iso be encountered as wandering monsters rom the encounter tables.
To vary these characters’ starting loca- ion, roll 146 and consult the Leader Varia- le Placement table whenever the characters
vade the fortress. The letters “F” and "D" tand for the "fortress" and "dungeon' espectively. One die roll determines where ll leaders start
arkessa: AC 2; MV 12"; MUS/FS; hp 35; #AT 2 or 3; D by weapon; AL LE Markessa is a female elf of no little eauty. She is a minor slave lord and over- er of this part of their operation. Of the all he minor lords, she is most favored and ost likely to be promoted to the Inner -ouncil should an opening arise. She has all e desirable qualities of a slave lord—a cheming, twisted mind and a penchant for describable cruelty.
ariable Leader Locations
eader 1 2 Jarkessa D 22 D 25 "ar F35 D 19 xecutioner F 32 F 35 lackthorn D 25f D 25f Suliyet D 29 F 8c dhu F 18 D 22
Equipment: Jeather armor +1 with protec- tion from normal missiles, sword of speed *1 (2 attacks per round, auto- matic initiative for first attack).
Spells: magic missile, protection from good, shocking grasp, darkness 15' radius, scare, lightning bolt.
Icar: AC 1; MV 12"; F7; hp 59; & AT 3/2;
D 1-10 *2; ALLE
Icar is the commander of the hill fort gar- rison, feared for his prowess and respected for his tactical ability. His dreaded reputa- tion is enhanced by the fact that he has accomplished all this while being totally blind, relying on his other keen senses. He is immune to all visual-effect spells, but a silence spell effectively "blinds" him. Equipment: two-handed sword +1, ring of
fire resistance
3 E 5 6 D 35 F 39 D 13 F 35 D 22 F 39 F32 D 28v D 12 F 20 F 32 Fil D 28 D 22 F 35 F 17b F 25 D 12 D 22 D1 F 20 F35 F31 F14
Executioner: AC 4; MV 9“; HD 4 +1; hp 25; ЖАТ 1; D 2-8 +2; AL CE Executioner is a true rarity, a gifted ogre. He is Icar's battle companion and aide. Well aware of his superiority to other ogres, he proudly uses his brains to devise cunning strategies against opponents. Equipment: A special bastard sword, with which he can disarm an opponent (on a roll to exactly hit AC 8).
Blackthorn: АС 4; МУ 9°/15"; HD 5 *2; hp 36; #AT 1; D 1-12; ALLE Spells: fly, become invisible, darkness 10° radius, polymorph to human or similar form, regenerate 1 hp/round, sleep (1/ day), charm person (1/day), gaseous form (1/day), and ray of cold (1/day) Blackthorn is an ogre mage and a per- sonal representative of Edralve. He is tem- porarily in command of the dungeon guards. He always appears to the player characters as a 7-foot-tall humanoid with gray skin, sparse hair, sunken eyes, and skeletal body. He greatly enjoys seeing the reaction this appearance creates in others. Guliyet: AC 3; MV 12”; MU4/C4; hp 10; FAT 1; 02-841; ALLE Guliyet is a female goblin witch doctor, She is the speciglfassistant to Markessa, the
only one to have met Markessa's standards
(and thus still live). She carries a small silent
whistle, which when blown will summon
her trained winter wolf to her side in 1-2
rounds. Guliyet can also be encountered as
a wandering monster.
Equipment: chainmail +2, morning star +1
Spells: (clerical) cure light wounds, dark- ness, resist fear, chant, resist fire (magic-user) affect normal fires, push, shield, invisibility, scare
Winter wolf: AC 5; MV 18^; HD 6; hp 30; WAT 1; D 2-8 or frost damage
Adhu Nazaryet: AC 2; MV 9"; HD 4; hp 23; #AT 1; D 1-6; AL LE Spells: cure light wounds, detect magic, resist fear, augury, detect charm, chant, dispel magic Adhu is the hobgoblin shaman of the fort, quite devoted to his bloody group of spirits.
Hill Fort Wandering Monsters
Wandering monsters are encountered only in hallways, empty rooms, or areas cleared by the party. However, wandering monsters will not be encountered in either the haunt's area or the haunted west wing.
The DM should check for wandering monsters each turn, with a roll of 1 on 1d6 indicating an encounter. When an encounter is indicated, use the Hill Fort Encounters table to determine what creature is met.
Hill Fort Encounters Die Roll Encounter 3-12 Hobgoblins on patrol Shaman plus 2-8 hobgoblins 2-8 War dogs 1-3 Carnivorous apes 2-12 Gnolls Escaped slave
Hobgoblin Patrol. The party has acci- dentally stumbled onto one of the roving patrols which guard the fort. If the patrol hears the characters but does not see them, the patrol leader will shout "Halt, who goes there?" in hobgoblin. If the patrol leader sees the party they will call upon the party members to "Drop your weapons and sur- render!" If the party does not surrender immediately, the hobgoblins attack. The hobgoblins do not want to split the reward for capturing runaway slaves (which is what they assume the party members are) so the hobgoblins will not summon any help or
с ي‎ d Ub н
raise the alarm.
Hobgoblin patrolmen: AC 5; MV 9”; HD 1*1; hp 6; #АТ 1; D 1-8
Hobgoblin leader: AC 4; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 9; #АТ 1; D 1-8
Hobgoblin Shaman and Guards: The hobgoblin shaman Adhu Nazaryet and his guard of 2-8 hobgoblins are on their way to a secret shrine of Maglubiyet to perform a sacrificial ritual. They will fight to the death to prevent the defilement of the holy icons they carry.
Adhu: See NPC Leader Placement section Hobgoblin guards: АС 5; MV 9"; HD 1*1; hp 6 each; #AT 1; D 1-8
War Dogs: The war dogs attack any crea- ture that does not smell like one of the mon- sters which belong in the hill fort.
War Dogs: AC 6; MV 12”; HD 2+2; hp 11; #AT 1; D 2-8
Carnivorous Apes: The carnivorous apes are allowed to roam the fort in search of food (humans). They are intelligent enough to avoid attacking monsters which belong in the hill fort.
Carnivorous Apes: АС 6; MV 12"; HD 5; hp 23; #AT 3; D 1-4/1-4/1-8
Gnolls: A band of gnolls has joined forces temporarily with the hobgoblins, goblins, and orcs of the hill fort. The party has stum- bled onto a group of gnolls either entering or leaving the fort. The gnolls want to show up the other humanoids and try to capture or kill the party members without calling for help.
Gnolls: АС 5; MV 9”; HD 2; hp 9; АТ 1; D 2-8
Gnoll Leader: AC 4; MV 9"; HD 3; hp 16; FAT 1; D 2-8
Escaped Slave: A woman recently cap- tured by the slavers has taken advantage of an opportunity to escape. She is armed with a short sword. If the party can convince her that they are not slavers, she will tell the party that she is Lady Morwin Elissar and offer them a large reward, payable when they take her back to civilization. Despite her ragged appearance, she seems to be a lady of quality (unfortunately, she is actu- ally a penniless maid-servant). She tends to be hysterical when threatened (50% chance of crying out and perhaps fainting), which will alert guards to the party's whereabouts.
58
She has an intense hatred for her former captors and will kill or maim them if the opportunity arises.
"Lady" Morwin Elissar: АС 10; МУ 12”; LVL 0; hp 6; #AT 1; D 1-6
Key to the Hill Fort
1. Curtain Wall Top
This is a curtain wall. When the fort is under attack the curtain wall serves to slow the attackers, for enemies must first fight past the curtain wall before they even reach the main gatehouse to the fort. Attackers will then be pinned between the curtain wall and the main gatehouse wall with no cover from the fort's defenders’ arrows. The cur- tain wall is not connected by a walkway to the fort; only a high wall of stone and logs links the curtain wall to the fort and encloses the outer courtyard.
The hobgoblins mount a guard on the curtain wall in order to sound the alarm if intruders approach. But they only march on the wall top for they fear the inner walk is haunted and none will enter it nor will they pay any attention to any sounds from within. la. Open Walkway
The walkway is open to the west and to the east. Hobgoblin guards pace back
and forth along each section, From below the hobgoblins appear as ghost-
white figures. Pallid moonlight illumi- nates the wall, casting eerie, ink-black shadows. Only a light breeze blows and sound carries muffled.
Two hobgoblins patrol each walkway and one will attempt to sound the alarm if the other is attacked. They are armed with com- posite bows and swords. They carry no lan- terns, relying on their infravision to enable them to spot invaders. The rim of the wall on all sides is lined with rows of sharp spikes pointing down, to dissuade those who would attempt to climb the wall.
Along the walkway are piles of broken stones for throwing down on invaders. In the floor of the eastern walkway is a trap- door, heavily barred for fear that the evil spirits below might break out. The guards will cry an alarm if the trapdoor opens and
obgoblins (2): АС 5; MV 9”; HD 1 * 1; hp 6 each; ҒАТ 1 or 2 with bow; D by weapon
b. West Guard House
There is a stained, decaying skull hang- ing on this door. The skull is that of a
halfling.
Within the guard house are two bunks, a ooden table, and two benches. A small oal fire burns in a stone box in the center of e room. Two hobgoblins are in the room. Dne is asleep on one of the bunks, while the ther is warming himself at the fire. The two re armed with spear and hand axe. There is o other light in the room, as drapes have een hung over the arrow slits.
If the hobgoblins realize they are outnum- ered, they will yell to the party to surren- er, and call for help, If they are then ttacked, they will defend themselves until elp can arrive,
obgoblins (2): AC 5; MV 9“; HD 1*1; hp 9, 7; #АТ 1; D by weapon
c. Gatehouse Inner Room
Inside this room are stacks of sealed crates. Many of the stacks reach almost to the ceiling. As the party nears one, a crate topples off the stack, narrowly missing the party!
e fallen crate was precariously balanced, nd was knocked off the stack by a cat elonging to one of the guards. The guards 1d will come to investigate the noise.
All the crates are filled with food. Against e north wall are two sections of a ladder at can be hooked together for a length of Ю feet. This ladder is used to climb to the all walk, because the guards refuse to each the wall through the haunted second oor.
d. East Guard House
From behind this door come rhythmic sounds, as of a knife on a butcher's block.
In this room are two bunks, a low table ith a box to sit on, and two stools. Three obgoblins occupy this room: two guards nd a sergeant with long sword and spear.
One of the guards is practicing throwing a knife at a crude target drawn on a broken table top. The other is bored and is drawing on a wall with a lump of coal. The sergeant is sitting at the table eating bread and cheese and feeding a pet crow. Against the wall behind him is a small bag of coal. The hob- goblins will try to defend themselves, hold- ing the party in the room until help arrives. Each hobgoblin carries 2-12 sp, while the sergeant also carries 2 gp. Beneath the knife- throwers bunk is a piece of mahogany carved into the shape of a hawk, worth 25 sp. Hobgoblins (3): AC 5; MV 9”; HD 1+1; 6 hp each; #AT 1 or 2 with bow; D by weapon) and a sergeant with long sword and spear
2. Curtain Wall — Second Floor
This inner walkway has a bad reputation among the hobgoblins in this fort. Work parties have been in the past to clean it out, but they would come back nervous, and usually with stories of one of their number who had gone mad and had to be killed before he killed them. A guard patrol reported the same thing, and seeing a ghostly shape that strangled the life out of one of the guards. For this reason, the hob- goblins will not enter this area and they have learned to ignore strange sights and sound that come from here.
2a. West Walkway
You stand in a narrow, dusty corridor. There is a door at the eastern end of the corridor. You have just climbed up a crude rope made of knotted rags and in through a small open window. The win- dow was once used to throw slops and nightsoil out into the warding ditch but it appears to have been some time since the window or this room has seen active use. Cobwebs cover the ceiling and walls. There is a single line of footprints in the dust, made by a naked human foot. They lead from the east and end at this window. The only light in the room comes from shafts of moonlight filtering in through the window and the arrow slits, spaced every 10 feet, that are cut in each wall.
This corridor is empty. Characters with a Wisdom score of 15 or greater will feel vaguely uneasy, though there is no logical reason for their unease.
59
2b. West Guard Fost
This room appears to once have been a guardroom, but it has been long aban- doned. There is a door opposite the door you used to enter, In the south end of the room, along the south wall, are stone stairs leading up and down. The ceiling
and walls of this room are covered with dusty cobwebs, and shards of a brittle, white material litter the floor. Broken furniture lies scattered about. A line of footprints in the dust reaches from the door to the stairs.
Closer examination by the party reveals that the splintered white material is bone, and that there are brown stains on the walls, floor, and broken furniture.
2c. Stairs
The stairwell is dimly lit by moonbeams flickering through arrow slits in the southern wall. The upper part of the
stairs going up has been bricked up. At the foot of the stairs, partially hidden in darkness, is a barely discernible wooden door.
The escaped slave was apparently lucky going up these stairs for starting halfway down the steps are three trip wires placed one after the other at varying intervals. If all three of the trip wires are not discovered (requiring three find traps rolls to find all three), at least one of the traps will be trig- gered. Two large globes will fall from the ceiling where they were hidden in shadow. One will fall at the foot of the stairs and explode with a blinding flash of light and a dull rumbling accompanied by the tinkling of breaking glass. The flash will blind all party members on the steps or in the room for four rounds. The second globe will fall at the head of the steps and will burst, releasing about 3,000 round glass beads. If a character is standing in that same spot, the globe will strike him for 1-6 points of dam- age. The beads bounce down the steps, striking the characters' feet and legs, scatter- ing all over. After one round it will be quiet again. The first character to move without stating his or her intention to be very careful will slip on the glass beads and go tumbling down the steps, causing all those in front to fall also. Those who fall take 1-6 points of damage plus 1 point for each person who falls on them. The players may avoid falling by not moving while blinded or by stating
their intention to move cautiously, either by crawling or moving with a sweeping motion to remove the beads in front of them. No guards come to investigate the noise.
The door at the foot of the stairs is latched shut from the inside. Once all the party exits and steps into the outer courtyard a breeze springs up and slams the door shut, latching it. There is no latch to open the door from the outside, so a dagger must be used to raise the latch. This takes two rounds.
2d. Room Over the Gate
This room appears to once have been used for warding off invaders who had broken through the gate and were pour- ing through the passage below, as there are murder holes in the floor for pouring oil on invaders. Opposite the door used
to enter, is another door. The room is dusty and filled with cobwebs. There are no discernible footprints in the dust. The room is only lit by what little moonlight filters in through arrow slits. A thick paste of dust coats the floor.
This room is empty. Several murder holes in the floor open into the avenue between the drawbridge and the outer courtyard. The chains and pulleys for raising the port- cullis and drawbridge are in this room, but will not budge as the winch below is locked. In one corner of the room is an old wooden cask which contains about an inch of ran- cid, black oil. Beneath cobwebs against one wall is a collapsed, rusty iron tripod. The dust in this room clings to a residue of spilt oil and makes a thick, gooey paste on the floor. As the characters progress farther into the room, they hear a faint moaning coming from somewhere beyond the far eastern door. Party members with Wisdom scores of 14 or higher begin to get the feeling that they are being watched.
2e. East Guard Post
This room appears to once have been used ав a guardroom. About the room are broken benches and tables. In one corner lies the ribs and iron rings of a sundered barrel. The furniture shows signs of having been hacked apart. The
ceilings and walls are coated with dusty cobwebs, and shards of a brittle white material litter the floor. Shadows in the room are deep and velvety, despite the arrow slits. There is a door in the oppo
site wall, while on the south side of the room appears to be a closet.
Upon entering this room, all party mem- bers must make a saving throw vs. Spells. Those individuals who fail notice nothing, but those who save hear the song of the crickets take on the din of a distant battle. The battle noises have a dreamy and unreal quality. These characters (who made their save) also start to see motion out of the cor- ner of their eyes, but when they turn to con- front it, there is nothing there. Loud noises cause the strange sounds to cease, but they resume after a brief interval.
Behind a table in the north end of the room lies a partial skeleton of a man: his rib cage, spine, skull and left arm. If the room is searched, the party will first notice its bony hand draped over the edge of the table. The white shards are bones and this room is also spattered with brown stains. There is noth- ing of value in the room.
The closeted space is open to the east and has по door. It is а garderobe ог latrine which opens onto a pit beneath the wall.
2f. East Walkway
The eastern wing of this wall walk is a dusty, cobwebbed, narrow corridor with arrow slits every 10 feet in both walls. The corridor appears unused. At the end
of the passage, stuck in a joint in the wall, is the burned out remains of a torch. A flickering light plays across the wall at the end of the passage.
As a party enters this corridor, a low moaning begins and all characters hear the din of a distant battle in the song of the crickets. The pale flickering light has no apparent source, but this cannot be deter- mined until one gets closer to the light. The corridor is cold and the party's breaths will fog. Any light brought here will begin to flicker and the party will see their shadows seem to take on the form of ancient warriors in battle. In this room, long ago, a group of human guardsmen made their last stand.
As the light at the end of the hall is approached it will be seen to actually be a glowing mist. The mist will slowly take on the shape of a wasted man with black holes where his eyes should be. The moaning will echo from all around and the figure will reach forward to touch a character. Any attack on the figure will cause it to disap- pear. Two rounds later the figure will reap-
pear between the party and the exit.
This figure is a haunt, the restless spirit of a person who died leaving a vital task unfin- ished. A haunt is required to remain within 6" of the place where the person died until the haunt can possess a body in order to complete the unfinished task. Since haunts are tied to the area where they died, they cannot be turned or dispelled by clerics.
The touch of a haunt drains 2 points of Dexterity every time it makes a successful hit on a character, As the character's Dexter- ity is drained, he becomes subject to the neg- ative adjustments due to low Dexterity (PH, page 11). The victim feels an increasing numbness. When the character's Dexterity reaches zero, the haunt possesses the body. Once possessed, the body's Dexterity returns to normal.
Once the haunt has possessed a person's body, it tries to complete the mission left unfinished by its death. In the new body the haunt is no longer tied to the area of its death and may leave. However, if the pos- sessed body dies before the task is com- pleted, then the spirit must haunt the place where the possessed body was slain.
Once a haunt completes its task it returns control of the borrowed body to the owner, and passes on to its final rest. When the haunt leaves a possessed body, the character has a Dexterity of 3. Lost Dexterity is regained at a rate of 1 point per turn of com- plete rest.
If the character a haunt is trying to pos- sess is of opposite alignment (good vs. evil), the haunt becomes furious and tries to strangle the victim. The haunt fastens its ghostly hands around the character's throat on a successful hit. The victim takes 1 point of damage the first round, 2 the second, 4 the third and so on, doubling each round until the victim is dead or the haunt defeated.
Haunts can only be hurt by silver or mag- ical weapons or by fire. Silver weapons only cause 1 point of damage per hit, while magi- cal weapons do 1 point plus any magical bonuses per hit. Normal fire also causes only 1 point of damage per blow, but magi- cal fire causes full damage. When a haunt reaches zero hit points it dissipates to reform in one week. Only an exorcism spell will destroy a haunt permanently.
Because haunts are tied to an area, the best defense is to simply walk away. A hold person spell will force a haunt to leave a possessed body.
This haunt was once a sergeant of the guard named Jon. His task had been to defend the inner walkway and the trapdoor
ВЕ its end from invaders, but he died as the
ence, Jon must successfully defend the area against all intruders, either slaying them or driving the intruders off, Jon may enter the Pastern guard post, but may not follow any ther as this is 60 feet from where he died.
aunt: AC 0; MV ó”; HD 5; hp 23; ҒАТ 1; D drain 2 points of Dexterity; AL LG
At the end of the corridor in the ceiling is в wooden trapdoor. There is no ladder lead- ng to the trapdoor, but the bolt holes, here a ladder was once bolted to the wall, an be seen. The trapdoor is barred from bove by the fearful hobgoblins, If the party ttempts to open the trapdoor and climb hrough, the hobgoblins will sound the larm and will be waiting to shoot missiles, t +4 to hit, at anything which comes up hrough the trapdoor.
If one of the party members is possessed, e or she learns that an iron box with 37 gp, 1 sp, 317 cp, and a ruby ring worth 200 gp s buried under one of the floor's paving tones. The possessed person will be able to ell this to the party only after the haunt is lestroyed or expelled. The box cannot be liscovered otherwise because the covering tone is cemented in place.
5. Drawbridge Tunnel
The musty smell of earth and rusting iron ills the air in this dimly lit avenue. The road ed is formed of cracked and weathered lagstones, now canted up at strange angles. obwebs drape the ceiling, and flakes of blaster adorn the walls. The drawbridge is aised and before it stands a lowered port- llis.
. Winch Room
Darkness fills the interior of this room, for the arrow slit in this room seems clogged with cobwebs and debris. In the darkness are pinpoints of glowing light, like pale eyes watching and waiting.
This room is another guardroom which is bccasionally checked by hobgoblin patrols. Dust has been stirred up in the center of the lloor, but lies thick in the room's corners. e lights come from cobwebs covering the alls and ceilings. In the cobwebs are spi- lers the size of a thumbnail, which glow in e dark. They are harmless. This room ouses, in the western alcove, the two inches which are used to raise and lower
the drawbridge and portcullis. Each winch has three locks upon it to prevent unauthor- ized use,
5. Outer Courtyard
A gentle breeze blows leaves and pieces of twine about this courtyard. To the north is the curtain wall with portcullis and drawbridge, and to the south is the main gatehouse to the inner keep. Moon- light and shadow form a stark contrast within the courtyard. There is a strong odor of manure and rotting vegetables in the air. The earth before the gatehouse has been churned into a 30-foot-diameter morass of glistening mud. Just beyond this is the portcullis of the gatehouse. The portcullis has been lowered, but does not touch the ground, and there is enough room to craw! through under- neath it. The wind carries sound down from the guards on the wall, to add to the chorus of crickets. As you approach the gate you see that the portcullis is blocked by some broken stonework jamming the track near the bottom.
The muddy patch before the gate must be crossed—there is no way to go through the gate without passing through the mud. The feet of any characters walking through the mud will sink in about 1 foot and movement will be cut to one-fourth normal. Any char- acter who slips and falls in the mud must spend one round regaining his or her feet.
Burrowed beneath the mud is an anhkheg which waits until a character nears the front gate or the center of the muddy patch before attacking. It then attacks at random, choos- ing characters who are in the mud. Just before the anhkheg strikes the crickets will become quiet, and the anhkheg will erupt from the mud. The anhkheg will expose only 6 to 7 feet of its body, and will not emerge completely into the open. The crea- ture will bite for 3-18 points, but will not hold onto those attacked (thus no additional damage from digestive juices), choosing instead to throw those it has attacked down into the mud (where it will take them 1 round to stand and be able to fight again). Only two figures may attack the creature's belly (AC 4) per round, and only one may do so if the anhkheg is holding someone in its mouth. Characters must state that they are striking at the belly or it is assumed that they strike the head, flanks, and legs of the animal.
Missile fire or any attacks on the front of
61
the anhkheg while it is holding a party mem- ber are 50% likely to hit the character rather than the anhkheg. Attacks from the side in the same situation will only hit the character 1 chance in 6.
Once the anhkheg is reduced to one-half its total hit points, the creature will spit acid up to 30 feet at the nearest group of charac- ters. All within 5 feet of this line of attack must save vs. Breath Weapon or suffer 8-32 points of damage. If a character saves, he or she takes only half damage. The acid will be neutralized after one round and cause no further effect. When the creature dies, a high pitched keening wail will echo across the courtyard and shadowy shapes will be seen to crowd to the wall top's edge. A hoarse cry of alarm will be set up.
Anhkheg: AC 2/4; MV 12" (6"); HD 5; hp 28; ZAT 1; D 3-18)
Entryway of Fire
Moonlight filters through from the inner grounds of the keep, illuminating the narrow entryway. On either side of the driveway are stacked several chest, bar- rels, and bales. The portcullis is jammed open and enough space remains to crawl
under it to reach the cracked flagstone drive. The passageway is about 20 feet long and appears to open out onto a dusty parade ground. Across the parade ground is an archway that appears to give access to the remainder of the keep.
If the alarm has been raised before the party reaches the entryway, the guards will be prepared. As the party crawls under the portcullis, flaming oil will be poured through murder holes cut into the tunnel roof, setting the boxed goods afire but miss- ing the characters. Any character standing within 10 feet of the fire will take 1-4 points of damage per round from the heat, flame and flying embers.
If the anhkheg is battled in silence and the guards are not alerted by the battle, this trap will not be set off.
The area before the gate will be well lit by fire and guards on the walls will shoot arrows at the party. Because of the bad angle of fire only six arrows will be fired per round, The arrows will hit only on a 19 or 20. If the party should attempt to retreat across the courtyard 12 arrows will be fired per round at normal chances to hit and the mud will slow movement of the characters to one-quarter speed. If the party attempts to fire back at the hobgoblins on the wall,
they will be firing blind into darkness (-4 to hit). The hobgoblin guards on the wall have 75% cover, giving +7 to their AC (AC 6 (- 1); MV 9"; HD 1 +1; hp 6 each; ҒАТ 2 with bow; D 1-6). They will each fire one arrow per round. The guards will not bargain with the party.
The fire leaps and roars intermittently, but a narrow channel down the middle of the corridor appears to be free of flaming debris. Any person running through this burning area will take damage according to his movement speed. The Flaming Passage table indicates both the number of segments it takes to move through the flames and the amount of damage taken. Three points of damage will be taken per segment in the flame.
The Flaming Passage
Movement 14 9 6 3 Segments x 2 3 Б 8 Damage points 6 9 2 24
A potion of speed doubles movement rate (thus halving damage). If a character saves vs. Breath Weapons, damage taken is reduced by half. The fire will not die down.
Characters may soak a blanket with water (one water skin full is the smallest amount that will be effective) and wrap it around themselves or, more expediently, roll in the wet mud, and then run through the passage. If either these or similar precau- tions are taken, the character will take only 1 point of damage per segment (no saving throw).
7a. Stables
These two large wooden doors open into what is obviously a stable. Various ani-
mals are in stalls along all four walls. Ten feet overhead is a hay loft filled with hay. There appears to be only one entrance.
There is, indeed, only one way in or out of the stables. Inside the various stalls are six oxen, 11 medium horses, and two light horses.
Two young hobgoblins are hidden in the stalls working. If attacked, they defend themselves with the tools they are working with. One hobgoblin has a pitchfork (D 1-6); the other hobgoblin is working with a shovel (D-14). If given a chance, the hob- goblin will sound the alarm by clanging on a fire gong. The alarm, however, is near the door. One turn after the alarm is rung 6-30 hobgoblins come rushing out the door to
room 8b. There is no treasure in the stables besides the animals and their gear (including three small wagons).
Oxen (6): AC 7; MV 15"; HD 4; hp 20 each; FAT 1: D 1-4
Medium horses (11): AC 7; MV 18”; HD 2+2; hp 11 each; #AT 3; D 1-6/1-6/ 1-3
Light horses (2): AC 7; MV 24"; HD 2; hp 9 each; AAT 2; D 1-4/1-4
Young hobgoblins (2): AC 10; MV 9”; HD 1; hp 4 each; #АТ 1; D 1-6 or 1-4
7b. Guard Bunkhouse
This door has a covered spy-hole at eye level. The door appears to be locked
from the ínside and there is no exterior keyhole.
This door is the only entrance to the gate- house. It has been padlocked and barred from the inside. The door opens to a flight of stairs leading up. If the party makes too much noise checking out the locked door, a hobgoblin from 8a will investigate. First he will ask "What's the pass word?" in hobgob- lin. There is none so any guess will be wrong. Then he will peek out through the spy-hole. If the party attempts to break down the door, he will raise the alarm.
8-10. The Gatehouse
This gatehouse is like a fort in itself and is commanded by a doughty human veteran. The commander is a no-nonsense man and has been known to give a guard 12 lashes just for gambling on duty. He has organized the gatehouse guard to respond quickly to the alarm and the guards can arm and ready themselves in five rounds when the alarm is sounded. This encounter should be played intelligently if the party attempts to invade the gatehouse. The commander's strategy is to hold invaders in one room until rein- forcements can arrive and then crush the invaders. The commander is located in room 8с.
Besides the guards in the various guard- rooms, there is a roving patrol that checks periodically to make sure all the guards on this floor and on the wall walk are doing their duties. The patrol consists of four hob- goblin guards and a sergeant. Every turn the party is in one of the guardrooms, there is a chance of an encounter with the patrol; roll 1 on 146.
Hobgoblin guards (4); AC 5; MV 9”; HD 1+1; hp 8 each; #AT 1; D 1-8
62
Sergeant: AC 4; MV 6^; HD 2; hp 13; #AT 1; D1-8 +2
8a. East Stair Room
This room contains two sets of stairs, a flight of stone stairs from the entrance to the gatehouse, and a flight of wooden stairs leading up to a trapdoor in the ceil- ing. In the north wall is a door. Kneeling
in the southwestern corner of this room facing the wall are two goblins with hal- berds; one is rattling something in his hands.
The two hobgoblins are bored and are rolling dice. They keep a close watch on the door in the north wall, but not on the stair- ways, since they are more concerned about making sure their sergeant doesn't catch them gambling than with doing their job. There are 2 gp, 15 sp, and 39 cp on the floor next to them.
Hobgoblins (2): AC 6; MV 9"; HD 1+1; hp 6 each; /AT 1; D 1-10 8b. Gatehouse Barracks
This area appears to be guard barracks, for there are many hobgoblins here sleeping on crude bunks, eating and talk-
ing at several narrow tables, or tending a large stew pot hung over a firebox with hot coals.
If the party bursts into this room, most of the hobgoblins will be surprised, though one bully boy will shout out in hobgoblin "Ahr, you belly-licking mercenaries are not allowed here.” After one round, if the party does not attack, one of the sergeants will step forward and ask them their business. If the party attacks, only one-third of the hob- goblins will be wearing armor, but they grab their weapons and cry out "Intruders!" There are a total of 22 normal hobgoblin guards here and two sergeants.
In the eastern tower are 10 hobgoblins. Most are sitting, eating stew and black bread. Two are sitting on a bench, pitching coppers against the wall. The sergeant here is sharpening his sword. The hobgoblins have a total 3 gp, 85 sp, and 30 cp.
In the center section, above the gate entryway, are four hobgoblins. One is tend- ing a large stew pot that hangs over a sand- filled box filled with hot coals, and is building the fire up. Another is engaged slic- ing tubers and roots for the stew pot and
peside him is a large pile of tubers. The emaining two are leaning against the south all talking and looking out on the parade round, There are a cutting table and three tools in this room. There are also two ooking pots on metal tripods over a firebox п the north end of the room. The second bot contains bubbling oil. There are murder oles cut into the floor here and if the alarm s sounded and enemies attempt to pass the ate, the hobgoblins pour the hot oil lhrough the murder holes. Several bags and asks of foodstuff and water are stacked on e floor. Each hobgoblin has 2-12 sp.
In the western tower there are many bunks and six of the 10 hobgoblins here are leep on the cots. Two hobgoblins are
eant is trying to instruct the other in the pest way to use the sword. Against the outhern wall is a rack of 18 pegs holding 17 ght crossbows and quivers of 20 bolts. The obgoblins here have 2-12 sp each and the ergeant of the guard has a ring of keys ttached to his belt which will unlock the inches in room 4.
obgoblin guards: AC 10 (5); МУ 12" (9^); HD 141; hp 6 each; AAT 1; D 1-8 with long swords
ergeants: AC 4; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 13 each;
#AT 1; D 1-8 with long swords
Bc. Captain of the Gatehouse
Seated at a table in this room are two men in banded mail, drinking from mugs and talking. Boxes of supplies are stacked behind them and in the north- eastern corner a flight of wooden steps leads up to a trapdoor in the ceiling. There are two folded cots in the room.
This is Gorbin Stalworth, captain of the ard, and Kairn, his half-orc lieutenant.
ill aim it, under the table, at the least rmored intruder, and fire if the opportu- ity presents itself. Kairn wields a huge ord he calls “Winnower,” which he swings
рр and а gold earring worth 75 gp. Gorbin
wields a sword +1 named “Sundancer.” He wears a neck-guard of silver and coral worth 1,100 gp, a symbol of his rank, and a gold belt buckle worth 500 gp.
The boxes contain various foodstuffs and bandages and so forth. The trapdoor in the ceiling is bolted shut from this side. Hanging on a peg on the west wall is a set of keys for all of the doors in the gatehouse and in the curtain wall.
Gorbin Stalworth: AC 3; MV 6"; F5; hp 30; FAT 1; D by weapon; 5 14, 1 13, W 9, D 15, Con 12, Cha 14
Kairn: AC 4; MV 9^; HD 3; hp 18; #AT 1; D 1-10
8d. Inner Gatehouse Wall Walk
In both of these wall walks are two hob- goblin guards, pacing back and forth, stop- ping to gaze out one of the arrow slits placed every 10 feet, and occasionally chewing on dried strips of meat to stay awake. The hob- goblins each have 2-12 sp. At the far end of each corridor is a garderobe or latrine that opens onto pits 40 feet below in the wall.
Hobgoblins: AC 6; MV 9”; HD 1+1; hp 6 each; #AT 2; D 1-6 with composite bows
9. Gatehouse Wall Top
This wall top joins the stockade parapet, so that the guards from the gatehouse may reinforce the stockade walls if there is an invasion. If the alarm is sounded, the hob- goblins within the guardhouses arrive in two rounds to reinforce the wall guards.
9a. Gatehouse Wall Walks
Two hobgoblins patrol each of these sec- tions, They are armed with composite bows and swords. They use their bows to attack any intruders sighted on the ground below. Each hobgoblin carries 2-12 sp.
On each section, chained to the wall, is a blue-gray, 3-foot-tall, vaguely humanoid creature. These are boggles (MMII, page 20). The boggles have a very keen sense of smell and can detect even invisible creatures up to 40 feet away. The boggles are used as guardians and watchbeasts to sound the alarm if the guards fail to. The boggles will set up a keening wail if they sense an intruder.
Hobgoblins (2): AC 6; МУ 9"; HD 1+1; hp each; #AT 1; D by weapon
Boggles: AC 5; MV 9”; HD 4+3; hp 21 each; #AT 3; D 1-4 each; able to spider climb; -1 point of damage per die from weapon attacks
63
9b. Western Guardhouse
This room appears to be a guardroom. There are seven hobgoblins in the room sitting on benches at tables or leaning back against the wall talking. They jump to their feet and draw their weapons. In the southeast corner of the room there is a trapdoor in the floor and one in the ceiling with a ladder leading up to it.
Six of the hobgoblins are normal guards, the seventh is their sergeant. The hobgob- lins are sitting around talking about their past exploits, waiting for their shift. One of the hobgoblins leaning against the wall is sleeping and will be too stunned, if awak- ened suddenly, to do anything for two rounds. Another one of the hobgoblins is sitting quietly chewing on a hunk of hickory bark. If intruders attack them he will first spit in their eye (save vs. Breath Weapon or be blinded for two rounds) and then attack. Each hobgoblin has 2-12 sp, and the ser- geant has a silver, horn-shaped amulet worth 20 gp. The trapdoor in the floor is bolted shut from below.
Hobgoblin guards: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 1+1; hp 6 each; #AT 1 or 2; D by weapon Sergeant: AC 4; MV 9”; HD 2; hp 9; FAT 1
or 2; D by weapon
9c. Eastern Guardhouse
This room appears to be a guardroom. There are several hobgoblins crowded around a table in the center of the room. Three other hobgoblins are asleep on pallets on the floor. In the southeast cor-
ner of the room there is a trapdoor in the floor and one in the ceiling with a ladder leading up to it. A wolf cub is running around the room and spots the party as they enter and begins to yip at them.
The hobgoblins in the center of the room are watching their sergeant arm-wrestle another one of their number. On either side of the contestants hands are two steaming plates of very hot stew.
The hobgoblins turn to see who has entered the room and will be surprised by the party unless a lot of noise was made prior to entering. The sergeant will kick over the table, dumping his opponent on the floor, and yell to his troops to attack. The sleeping hobgoblins will take two rounds to enter the battle. There are 11 hobgoblin guards in this room armed with swords. The
sergeant is armed with a footman's mace and will grab a stool to use as a shield. The wolf cub will be a nuisance in battle weav- ing about the party's legs and nipping at their ankles, but causing no damage. Each round a character is attacked by the wolf cub the character must roll his or her Dex- terity or less on 1d20 or fall and be stunned for one round.
The hobgoblins each carry 2-12 sp. The sergeant has 8 gp and a silk handkerchiet worth 5 gp.
Hobgoblin guards: AC 6; MV 9*; HD 1 * 1; hp 6 each; #AT 1; D 1-6
Sergeant: AC 4; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 9: #AT 1; D 2-7
Wolf cub: AC 6 due to size; MV 9”; HD 1*1; hp 5; AAT 1; D nil
10. Gatehouse Tower Roofs
Here is the roof of one of the twin gate- house towers. It is flat so that а watch may be posted atop it and a trapdoor in the southeast corner appears to provide access to the roof from the inner tower. Battlements have been built around the
edges of the roof to provide guards with protection from enemy missile fire. There are four hobgoblins mounting a guard on the rooftop. On the north side of the roof there appears to be a ballista and a bundle of bolts beside it.
The four hobgoblin guards can also dou- ble as a ballista crew if the fort is attacked by enemies. There are 4-24 bolts in the bun- dle for the ballista. It requires two hobgob- lins to fire the ballista, which will do 2-12 points of damage against man-sized targets, firing once every other round. The other two employ their bows and fire upon ene- mies attempting to pass the gate.
a. The hobgoblins on this roof are a crack squad and periodically call out to each other to keep alert. If intruders reach the roof top they wheel the ballista around to fire on them, while the other two crouch behind a pile of broken rock, used for throwing down on invaders, and attempt to pin down intruders with missile fire. The rock pile will provide 509» cover causing the hobgoblins AC to be2. These hobgoblins have a total of 18 gp and 4 sp.
b. These four hobgoblins are young and believe they can show the more experienced warriors a thing or two about strategy. They sit on a couple of boxes near their ballista watching the outer courtyard only and do not pace the rooftop. They feel that their
safety lies in numbers and that it is tougher to surprise a group of people than one per- son. They have tied two tin cups to the trap- door to rattle if anyone approaches that way and have made a stack of empty boxes beside the trapdoor. A rope is attached to one of the bottom boxes and runs to the group of guards, If their alarm goes off they will topple the pile of boxes onto the trap- door by pulling the rope, stunning anyone coming through, and then rush forward and attack, These hobgoblins only have a total of 50 sp.
Hobgoblin guards: АС 6; MV 9"; HD 1 +1; hp 6 each; #AT 2 with a composite bow; D 1-6
11. Stockade Parapet
Here is a guard walkway behind the stock- ade log wall. This parapet surrounds the fort on three sides and connects to the walkway on the gatehouse walls. The parapet is made of wooden platforms on packed dirt at the top of the earthen rampart. A log stockade surrounds the top of the rampart and arrow slits are cut in the wall at waist height every 10 feet. Hobgoblin guards post a watch all along the rampart top, pacing back and forth. There appear to be two guards at every guard post, The stockade parapet is 15 feet above the roof of the fort, so that guards on the walkway can survey the entire roof and spot any movement on it.
The hobgoblin guards are posted in pairs along the wall at 60-foot intervals. All parts of the stockade wall are watched by at least one pair of guards, and most parts can be seen by two pairs. The guard posts are noted on the map. The guards rotate posts every half hour (3 turns) as a new pair come on duty. Each pair then moves to the next post counterclockwise and relieves that pair of guards. The standard length of a shift of guard duty is thus about six hours long. Each hobgoblin has only 2-12 sp.
A wandering patrol also periodically checks each guard post. For every two turns the party spends on the stockade wall an encounter check should be made. On a roll of 1 on 146 the patrol will be encountered. The patrol consists of 12 hobgoblins armed with short bows and long swords, and a hobgoblin sergeant armed with a long sword.
Hobgoblin guards: AC 5; MV 9”; HD 1 +1; hp 6 each; #AT 1 or 2 with bow; D 1-6
Hobgoblin patrol: AC 5; МУ 9”; HD 1*1; hp 6 each; #AT 1 or 2 with bows; D by weapon
Hobgoblin sergeant; AC 4; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 9; #AT 1; D 1-8
12. The Parade Ground
Dust swirls about this barren area between the gatehouse and the keep. This area appears to be a parade ground for drilling the troops. There is no cover
visible. On the south side of the parade ground is a stone facade and archway. Through the archway seems to be an inner courtyard.
If the party has been sighted by the guards on the wall, they will be fired on by the guards as they cross the parade ground. Because the party is running, the arrows will be at -2 to hit. If the party has not set off the alarm, they will be sighted as they cross the parade ground and the alarm will be sounded, but not in time for any arrows to be fired at the party.
The east and west sides of the parade ground are steep walls of earth and broken stone beneath the rampart parapets. These walls are unsafe to climb, because the rock is loose and shifting.
The sergeant of the guard will be leading a strange, blue-gray, 3-foot-tall, vaguely humanoid creature on a chain and driving the whimpering, gibbering creature along with a whip. This creature is a boggle and is used as a bloodhound to sniff out intruders because of its keen sense of smell. Boggles are even able to detect invisible creatures up to a distance of 40 feet. For further details on the creatures see Monster Manual II, page 20.
Boggle: AC 5; МУ 9"; HD 4+3; hp 20; #AT 3; D 1-4 each; able to spider climb; -1 point per die of damage received from weapons
13. The Inner Courtyard
Beyond the stone facade is an enclosed courtyard wooded with small trees, shrubs, bushes, and vines. In the center of the courtyard is a circular stone foun- tain, while along either side and at the south end is a roofed walkway 10 feet high and 10 feet wide, supported by wooden pillars and trellises overgrown with ivy. There are two small trees grow- ing to either side at the south end of this courtyard. The air is cool and still, and the cold fire of lightning bugs performs a faery dance through the shrubbery.
If any of the party were covered with mud in area 5 before coming here the mud will now begin to harden. They will feel confine- ment due to its weight and stiffness. The mud may be washed off in the fountain (which contains only water). If the mud is not washed off, the players' receive -2 on "to hit" rolls until the mud is washed away.
From the fountain the party will be able to see the double doors at the south end of the courtyard beneath the porched walk- way. If the party remains at the fountain for two rounds or longer, 12 hobgoblins climb through the trapdoor in the roof, position themselves four to each side of the court- yard, and attack. The guardhouse will have 50% cover which will increase the AC to 2. The party will be surprised on a roll of 1-4 on dó, unless someone is watching the roofs. If someone is watching, the chance of surprise is normal, If the party is not sur- prised four hobgoblins will be spotted clam- bering over the roofs. The hobgoblins will hide behind the roof edge if fired upon.
On the hobgoblins first attack round, two will throw a net down upon the nearest group of people (save vs. Paralyzation or be entangled). The other 10 will attack with bows. The net covers a 10-foot-by-10-foot area. Those caught by the net must cut themselves loose with an edged weapon (striking to hit AC 9 to cut one strand; four strands must be cut before the character is loose). A dagger is capable of cutting two strands per round. When in the net, charac- ters do not receive Dexterity adjustments to AC and cannot fight. Captured members may be dragged to shelter by their compa- triots, but will receive 1 point of damage and be stunned for two rounds from being dragged and thrown about. After the net is thrown, all hobgoblins use composite bows.
The party may seek cover underneath the walkway or concealment in the bushes. The walkway will provide 100% cover (the party cannot be seen) from four of the attackers and 50% concealment (-2 to AC) from the other eight. The shrubbery and the small trees provide 50% concealment (-2 to AC) from all hobgoblin fire.
Hidden on the porch roof near the tree- tops are four carnivorous apes who are working with the hobgoblins. If anyone makes for the doors two of the apes come swinging down through the trees and attack. The other two attack when help arrives for the victims. The apes fight to the death and will pursue the party into the cor- ridor.
The oak door into the corridor is locked. A thief must have one undisturbed round to
attempt to open it. A knock spell will open the door, or it may be opened by rolling a 1 on 1d6 while two characters strike the door simultaneously. The hobgoblins will not fol- low into the corridor.
Any attempt by the party to gain the roof will result in arrows being fired upon them at *4 to hit by guards on the walls who have 504» cover and are thus AC 2 (6 hp each). The trapdoor on the roof is concealed as a chimney pot,
Hobgoblins: AC 6, 2 in 50% cover; MV 9”; HD 1+1; hp 6 each; #AT 2; D 1-6
Carnivorous apes: AC 6; MV 12*; HD 5; hp 27, 26, 23, 19; WAT 3; D 1-4/1-4/1-8 plus rending damage (1-8) if it strikes with the first two attacks
14. The Entrance Corridor
This bare stone corridor has torch brack- ets set in the southern wall at 10-foot intervals. The air is chill. The passage
runs east to west. The floor is covered with dust. Barely discernible at the end of each wing there appears to be a door- way.
If the party examines the floor closely, footprints indicate most of the traffic has been going eastward from the doorway.
15. The Empty Room
From behind this doorway comes а faint, hollow moan. Beyond the door is a demolished room with overturned furni- ture and rotting fabric. On the west wall is a fireplace. Dust fills the air and cob- webs hang across everything. As the
party enters the room a white figure flut- ters out from behind the chimney, Its eyes appear to be two black holes. From the shadowed eastern nook comes a bony clatter. A chill breeze blows across the party.
The moaning echoes from the chimney where a silken pillow worth 5 gp has been stuffed up the flue. A cold breeze blows down the chimney and out through a chink in the chimney wall. The ghostly shape is merely a tattered curtain blowing in the breeze. The bony clatter is a set of wooden wind chimes hung in the shadows in the northeast corner, near the door. Beyond this door is a fire-blackened corridor layered with ash and dust. There are no discernible tracks in the dust.
65
16. Madman's Lair
This section of the old fort is shunned by the hobgoblins and their allies because it is believed to be haunted. In this area lives a madman, who was a 5th level fighter. He was captured by the slavers and tortured to the point of madness. He has managed to escape, but still believes the slavers are after him. He has set up a number of tricks and traps in this area to make the hobgoblins think the place is haunted.
This madman wears a bizarre variety of rags. His beard and hair are tangled and unkempt, and he is soot-covered. He has collected equipment which would help him to escape, such as clothing, rations, a back- pack and so forth. Unfortunately, in his madness, he has forgotten his goal to escape. He also has a dagger, and has stolen a pouch with eight topazes worth 50 gp each: his pretty things.
This madman lives in the crawlspace
between the ceiling rafters and the roof of the building, and clambers about on the rafters from the ceiling, passing between rooms through holes in the walls. To reach the crawl space he climbs up the narrowing chimney of the fireplaces in the various rooms here and crawls to the crawlspace through a hole in the chimney wall. The crawlspace may also be reached by climbing up the burnt timbers of the collapsed room. If any intruders try to climb up the chimney while the madman is in the room, he drops a noose around their neck, and hauls them into the air to suffer 2-8 points of damage per round until dead. Then he will drop the body. - The madman will fight with a dagger if attacked in the crawl space between the raft- ers and the roof. Any character attempting to fight hand-to-hand in this space has a -2 penalty to hit and damage rolls unless using a dagger.
Madman: АС 8; MV 12”; F 5; һр 41; #AT 1; D 3-6
16a. Collapsed Room
The ceiling of this room has collapsed and the rafters and the building roof 4 feet above are exposed. This room
appears to have been gutted by fire and is littered with burnt timbers. In the east wall is a soot-covered fireplace. The room appears to be empty.
There are three vipers nesting beneath rubble in the south end of the room. They
attack anyone disturbing them. Otherwise, the room is empty. Player characters may gain access to the crawlspace between ceil- ing and roof here by climbing up the burnt timbers.
Vipers: AC 7; МУ 6“; HD 1/2; hp 3 each; FAT 1; D1-* poison, save at +2
16b. Abandoned Storeroom
Rows of dusty crates line the walls. One crate has fallen to the floor and broken
open. A close examination of the con- tents reveal them to be moldy, dust- covered rations.
All the boxes contain moldy, inedible food. While the party searches the room a crate will rise from one of the shelves as if by levitation, then suddenly fly across the room to smash against the floor at the feet of one of the player characters. While the crate flies through the air the party will hear an eerie wail echoing throughout the room which will end with a muffled yell of “Begone! You disturb my rest!”
If a party member successfully searches the ceiling for secret doors, he or she will notice a narrow crack in the ceiling on line with the path of the crate. The madman has a thin, strong wire attached to the crate which is invisible in the dim light. He uses the wire to lift the crate, swing it, then drop the crate to the ground. The wire is jarred loose when the crate crashes and is then pulled back into the ceiling. The eerie noises are made by the madman talking into an empty bucket.
16c. Abandoned Armory
The room is filled with weapon racks, all
of which are empty. The room is dusty and cobwebs gather on the racks.
The room contains nothing of value.
16d. Abandoned Bedroom
This room contains a dusty bed, chest of drawers, night stand, and wooden rock- ing chair, Along the eastern wall is a large fireplace. As you open the door, a
ceramic pitcher flies off the night stand and the rocking chair begins to rock with a creaking eerie sound. Out of the corner of your eyes you see a vague luminous shape in front of the fireplace. You hear
the shout: “Begone! I will warn you no more!" echoing off the walls. The rock- ing chair quits rocking and the room is ominously silent. When you stare closely at the fireplace, the luminous figure is gone.
The madman is up to his tricks again. The pitcher and the rocking chair have wires attached to them to start them in motion. The madman can operate these through a concealed, makeshift trapdoor in the ceil- ing, hidden in the shadows. Once the pitcher shatters and the rocking chair starts in motion, the controlling wires are pulled back up. When the party's attention is on the rocking chair, the madman will reflect candle light off a mirror onto a gauzy piece of curtain hanging in from of the fireplace. Having given the party a glimpse of the sup- posed spirit, he shouts his warning, blows out the candle, and pulls the gauze in through a chink in the chimney. He will then exit the room.
16е. Abandoned Dining Room
A long wooden table and wooden high backed chairs are in this room, covered with dust and cobwebs. Moldering food
still sits on the table. The room appears to have been first abandoned while a meal was in progress.
Hidden overhead on the rafters in the northwest corner of the room is a sort of large nest made from old blankets and tap- estries. A female slave and her young child are hiding here. The madman helped them to escape, built the nest, and smuggles them food. The woman and child will make no noise since they are afraid anyone below might be guards or slavers. She has knowl- edge of areas 15, 16, and 17 only. The only entrances to the above ceiling lair are via one of the fireplaces (in 16a, 16d, and 16f), then across the rafters and through the holes between the rooms.
Escaped woman: AC 10; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 3; АТ 1; D 1 with a board
16f. Abandoned Kitchen
This room appears to have once been a kitchen. There is a large fireplace in the
west wall and two cupboards, some shelves, and a heavy wooden table are
also in the room. The floor is covered with dust and cobwebs and the cupboard
doors hang open, showing them to be empty and bare. The room appears to be empty.
As the party enters the room, a ceramic plate flies by suddenly, to smash against the wall beside them. Next a knife whizzes by, striking a random party member, and caus- ing 1d4 points of damage. The madman has thrown these items from a concealed, make- shift trapdoor in the ceiling behind the fire- place. He will then hide.
The shelves contain some cracked plates and cups. On the north wall, beside the door, is a message apparently scrawled in blood. The message says, “Behold, the har- binger of your fate" Stuck to the wall below the message is a bloody hand impaled by a knife, the tip its finger pointing at the mes- sage.
Overhead in the crawl space is the mad- man’s lair. He climbs in and out of the crawl- space through the chimney of the fireplace. He has fortified a section of the rafters above with boards for flooring and has made a wooden wall around it with benches on the side. He has left spaces between the benches through which to fire the light crossbow he has in his lair, The walls give him 7546 cover and improve his AC by 7. He has also weakened several of the beams to act as traps. Anyone who attempts to cross part of these weakened beams will crash through the ceiling, taking 2-8 points of damage.
In his lair the madman stores a sack of soot and dust and a piece of a broom which he uses to cover up his tracks. He also has five butcher knives scavenged from the kitchen below, and some old rusty chains he uses for sound effects.
16g. Abandoned Bedchamber
Through this door comes the sick, sweet odor of decay and death.
In the middle of this room hangs the remains of a strangled hobgoblin, dangling from the ceiling by a sash cord. The body is blackened and bloated with decay. The room appears to have once been used as a bedroom for there are two beds, with mil- dewed sheets, a broken table and two smashed chairs. Assorted junk and loose plaster litters the floor, and there is a bloody stain on the floor beneath the body.
This hobgoblin came here on a dare by the other guards, but got too smart for his own good and tried to investigate the fire- place in the kitchen. The madman dropped a noose around his neck and strangled the unfortunate fellow, then he hung the body up in this room and cut off the hand to use asa warning. The hobgoblin has a dagger in his left boot and 13 sp stuffed in a pouch under his tunic.
Amid the litter on the floor can be found two old brushes and a gilt hand mirror that is cracked. There is nothing else of value in this room, but those who attempt to remain in the room for more than two rounds will find themselves gagging on the stench.
17a. The Bear
This is a wooden door— no sound can be heard from behind it. The door opens out into the hall.
When the door is opened there comes
a low, rumbling growling noise, and a grizzly bear, on his hind legs, comes lurching out of the shadows. He rushes right at the head of the party. Cries of surprise are heard.
The bear is really a stuffed bear. Those standing immediately in front of the door must save vs, Petrifaction or take 1-6 points of damage from the stuffed bear falling on them. The stuffed bear was on a small wheeled platform and propped at the top of a narrow ramp. When the door was opened it rumbled down the ramp (causing the growling sound) and crashed into the party.
The movement of the bear triggered another trap behind the party. A 10-foot- by-10-foot section of wall and floor 10 feet back from the door will pivot out from the north wall, dropping any party members on that section into a 15-foot-deep pit. A sec- ond wall will flip up into place and the origi- nal wall will become the floor section, so that it looks like nothing has happened. The front members of the party will not be aware that the rear members have disap- peared until they look back and find out. The party will have mistaken any cries of surprise from those in back to have come in response to the charging bear.
Those who are caught in the trap take 1-6 points of damage. The pit is 10 feet deep. Screams from those inside the trap cannot be heard, but if they can reach the ceiling they may tap on it. The tapping may only be heard if the party specifically listens for it. To free the trapped members of the party, it
will be necessary to partially flip the wall and floor again, and jam them open using at least two spikes. Alternately, a spike may be sunk in the wall and the wall pulled down so that the pit is exposed. If the trap is not held open in this position (requiring a combined Strength of 30), anyone standing in the pit who does not save vs. Petrifaction will be hit by the rotating wall and take 1-6 points of additional damage.
The bear's eyes are glassy and it seems to be a little cross-eyed. This is because one of the eyes was put in crooked. Behind the eye, hidden in the socket by Icar, the fort com- mander, is a periapt of proof against poison. He is not aware of the use the stuffed bear has been put to.
17b. Study
The room beyond this door appears to have once been a study. In front of the door is a wooden ramp. A crude wooden table and box have been placed near the center of the room to serve as a desk.
Several casks stand about the room, as does an old leather chest. There is a fire- place on the east side of the room with wood piled beside it. The door to the north is locked. The door to the south has light shining from beneath it.
The hall trap was activated by pulling the molding to the right of the western door down into the room and letting it spring back. This 7-foot lever had been bent down and held in place by the bear's platform. When the door was opened and the bear pulled down the ramp, the lever sprang back into place and triggered the trap to flip.
This room is used by the fort paymaster once a week to pay the troops. Beneath the box on the floor is a sack with 50 gp stowed in it. The chest and casks are empty and do not have hidden compartments. In the wood pile is a fire blackened butter knife of silver, used to clean the ashes out of the fire- place. It is so tarnished it has no apparent value, It is worth 25 gp.
The northern door is locked and bolted from the other side and cannot be opened.
18. East Wing Guard Complex
This area is used as barracks for some of the fort troops. It's these troops who run the ambush of the inner courtyard, so this area will usually be fairly empty of hobgoblins. If the party spends a lot of time in the ‘haunted’ western wing, the guards may have returned to here.
67
18a. Storeroom
The door to this room is locked and the key is in the possession of the hobgoblin officer in room 18c. This room is used as a storeroom for extra weapons and supplies for the troops. There are five bundles of 20 arrows, extra bowstrings and arrowheads, and a dozen protective cases for bows. Also in the room are three barrels of water and four casks of dried foodstuffs. A dozen pots and pans are stored in here and there are two bales of fine linen worth 250 gp at mar- ket. In the southwest corner beneath an old sheet is a small chest holding the various funds of the guards in this section. The chest is locked. In the chest are 13 leather pouches containing 4-24 silver pieces each. The 13th pouch also holds 5 gp and a small jasper worth 10 gp.
18b. Latrine
This room is a latrine, The latrine is only
a ceramic chamber pot. It can be removed for easy cleaning.
This latrine is kept reasonably clean, because it is next to the officer's quarters. Also in the room is a ceramic basin and a pitcher with water and towel for washing. There is nothing of value in the room.
18c. Officer's Quarters
This large room is fairly empty. There are two beds, a stuffed chair, a small table, and two stools. Sleeping in one bed is a hobgoblin, who opens his eyes
and sits up, bleary-eyed, trying to focus on the party in the doorway. Hanging on one wall is a cloak and bow, while near the bed is a green sash cord. In the north wall is another door.
The sash cord is a bell pull. The hobgob- lin sergeant will yank on the bell pull to sound the alarm, if the party gives him a chance, His sword is hung across the foot of the bed. If the party threatens to kill him if he sounds the alarm and the odds do not look in his favor he will hesitate, but he will not surrender, because he believes this would mean certain death. If he is harmed he will sound the alarm anyway and take his chances.
There is nothing of any real value in the room. The hobgoblin has a set of keys for storeroom 18a and the chest there. The cloak is infested with fleas and anyone put-
ting it on will be set to scratching in two turns. Otherwise there is no adverse effect.
Sergeant: AC 10; MV 12”; HD 2; hp 13; #AT 1; D 1-8
18d. Trapdoor
This room appears to be a tall closet. A
series of shelves is built into the back wall. These shelves are empty.
The edge of the shelves seems to have been wiped clean of dust and there are stone chips on the floor. The ceiling of this closet is a concealed trapdoor up to the roof of the fort. It is concealed on the outside to look like the top of a chimney. The hobgoblins use the shelves as a ladder to climb up to the trapdoor and onto the roof if there is an invasion, so that they may ward off enemies from the rooftops.
18e. Recreation Room
This room contains wooden tables and chairs. A wooden board with a crudely drawn face has been tacked to one wall and shows marks of having been used for knife throwing practice. Dirty wooden dishes and a deck of greasy cards lie on top of one table.
There are food crumbs on the floor, but nothing of any value in the room.
18f. Bunkroom
This room is filled with cots. About a third of the cots are occupied by off-duty
hobgoblins sleeping. There is little else of note in the room.
The six hobgoblins are all asleep, but they have learned to sleep lightly. If the alarm has been sounded or the party is noisy in the area nearby, they are shamming their sleep and have their weapons in hand waiting for the party to enter the room. If the hobgoblin guard in room 18c sounds the alarm, they armor up and go running to check the dis- turbance in two rounds. All of these hob- goblins' treasure is in room 18a. However, one of the hobgoblins has a bag of 20 mar- bles, colored glass beads. And beneath the blankets on one of the cots is a silvered hand mirror worth 3 gp. '
Hobgoblins: AC 10; МУ 12^; HD 1 * 1; hp6 each; #AT 1; D 1-8
19. The Mirror Corridor
As the door opens there is a clanging sound. A pair of tin cups have been hung above the door. The party sees a straight corridor 110 feet long, lit by torches in wall brackets spaced every 20 feet. There
is an archway some distance down the corridor and a door beyond that. The walls are hung with paintings, now defaced, and the floor is covered by a ragged carpet.
The illusion of straightness to this corri- dor is caused by a mirror, set at a 45 degree angle in the southeast corner. The arch seems to be 80 feet away if the party enters from the north, 30 feet away if they enter from the west.
If the characters enter from the north, they see a metallic mirror reaching from floor to ceiling along the west wall, 20 feet from the door.
Before the party does anything else, the opposite door opens and three mummies step into the room. These are actually dis- guised hobgoblins wrapped in bandages and armed with morning stars, which they have concealed behind their backs.
Any attacks with normal missiles will be stopped 30 feet from the mummies, as though by magic (actually deflected by the mirror). A magical missile attack, such as a fireball, will destroy the mirror, revealing a (false) door behind it, From the party's viewpoint the mummies vanish, and the door seems 30 feet closer.
As the party moves up the corridor, the mirror on the western wall swings open behind them and seven hobgoblins attack the party from the rear (surprise on 1-3), while the mummies charge and attack the party from the front. Six of the hobgoblins are normal and armed with long swords. They are led by a sub-chief armed with a sling of seeking +2 with 20 bullets and a long sword, He causes 2 extra points of damage with his sword because of his expe- rience as a leader. Each hobgoblin carries 2-12 sp.
If the secret door is discovered, the hob- goblins retreat to room 20 and grab casks of grease to throw down the corridor, Party members must roll their Dexterity scores minus their movement speed or less on 1d20 to avoid falling. Those who fall are stunned for one round (giving the hobgoblins +4 to hit).
If the characters enter the Mirror Corri- dor from the west, they see the rest of the
corridor reflected (as described in the Play- ers' Section) if the mirror is still intact. Oth- erwise they see the false door in the southeast corner.
Hobgoblin “mummies”: AC 8; MV 12”: HD 1+1; hp 9 each; ҒАТ 1; D 2-8
Hobgoblins: АС 5; МУ 9"; HD 1*1; hp 8 each; #AT 1; D 1-8
Sub-chief: AC 3; MV 6*; HD 2+2; hp 16; #AT 1; attacks as 3 HD monster; D 2-5 with sling, 4-10 with sword
20. The Hobgoblin Barracks
This room is a barracks with wooden beds and straw mats. There is a table with six stools around it. On the table are the remains of a meal: dirty tin plates
covered with grease, a few crusts of bread, a pot with some congealed stew, and wooden cups with weak ale in them. There are also several cockroaches on the plates.
Between one bed and the wall is a gold ring with a chipped amethyst worth 150 gp. If the bed is pulled away from the wall it will fall to the floor. Beneath the ticking of another is a bag of 15 walnuts (there is 1 in 4 chance that any one is spoiled). Stuck in the headboard of a third is a rusty butcher knife. In a locked box beneath the leader's bed are 80 gp and a tarnished silver chalice worth 483 gp. There is a rusty needle in the lock, but it is not poisoned.
21a. The Hallway
This corridor is unlit and thickly car- peted. The hallway is quiet and shadows seem to muffle any sounds the party makes. Faded blue drapes hug the walls to either side and the carpet is a cheerless gray. As you proceed down the corridor there is suddenly a frightened squeak at your feet and a rat bolts across the hall and disappears into a hole in the wall. The drapes are attached to the wall at both the ceiling and the floor and every 20 feet there is a break in them where a torch bracket is mounted on the wall, At the southwest end of this hall, on the east wall, there is a door standing slightly ajar. The corridor ends 20 feet further down the hall with drapes across the end
wall.
21b. Trapped Corridor
Beyond the drapes at the end of this hall the orridor continues on, but is no longer car- ted. There is a covered pit in the floor just
ikes. Anyone who falls into the pit will take 1-6 points of damage from the fall, and will also be impaled on 3-6 spikes for 1-6 oints of damage each. On the far side of the pit a nearly invisible ire has been stretched taut across the hall- way at chest height (4 feet). The wire is
who is over 4 feet tall will be caught by the wire and pushed back into the pit, A half- ling, gnome, or dwarf will not strike the wire, and will be unaware of it unless he looks carefully.
22. Empty Room
The door here is slightly ajar and as the party approaches it will swing open a bit. The room beyond is filled with
opened barrels, old leather chests, and pieces of boards, and twine. There is a small fireplace opposite the door.
The barrels and chests are all empty. This room is sometimes used as a storeroom. The fireplace has not seen use, but a breeze blowing down it causes the door to swing open and shut. A close examination of the room will reveal a leather pouch next to the door. In the pouch are a hammer and chisel. The door hinges are marred and the pins slightly battered.
23. Storeroom
The door to this room is locked. This room contains shelves filled with trade goods as well as bales and chests of trade goods stacked on the floor.
Most of the trade goods are bolts of cloth, iron tools, iron pots, miscellaneous wooden utensils, and cheap glass jewelry. The total value of the trade goods is 2,000 gp, but they are too bulky and heavy to be carried except by pack animals or in wagons.
24a. The Water Room
This room is filled with the smell of wet wood. On the floor in the southern end of this room are four large tuns stood on end with removable lids. Each tun is fit-
ted with a spigot near the bottom. There is also a stack of four wooden buckets with rope handles. On the south side of the room there is a railing and a set of steps leading downward to the east.
This is the water room. The tuns are filled with water, and the bottoms can be seen if a light is held above them. At the bottom of one is a small leather sack. The spigot to this tun is rusted and cannot be opened. The sack is rotten and will fall apart if someone tries to fish it out. Inside the sack are 20 gp, a gold ring, and a large gem. If these are removed from the water, the ring seems gold, and will detect as magical, but is only brass and has Nystul's magic aura cast on it. The large gem is a badly flawed amethyst, worth only 10 gp.
Beyond the steps in the southeast corner of the room is an underground passage dug out of the earth and reinforced with wooden beams.
24b. The Well
The underground passage continues for 30 feet, then ends in a small circular
room. In the center of the room is a circu- lar stone well with a cable drum for drawing up water.
This room contains nothing of value. The well is 30 feet deep.
25. Room of Slaves
Beyond the door is an eerie sight; a large, long, terraced room; a narrow passage runs through the center of the room with raised stone platforms set in a series of three large steps to either side and at both ends of the room. On these steps sit dozens of humans staring blankly into space while dark shadows curl about their nearly naked forms. These crea- tures are bound to the walls with neck chains, but do not appear to be strug- gling in the least, They do not seem to notice the party. Scraps of torn clothing are tossed about the room and there are cloaks and blankets hanging on the walls.
69
This room is used by the slavers to make newly acquired slaves docile. The guardian here is a rare and exotic creature that typi- cally lives far underground, called a Cloaker (or Tenebra Complexor). How the slavers managed to obtain the services of this bizarre creature is unknown, but the beast is believed to be intelligent.
The cloaker regularly emits a subsonic moaning. This moaning can cause several effects at the pleasure of the monster. The lowest level of moaning, and the one occur- ring when the party enters, causes nervous- ness and unease, and will eventually numb the minds of those who listen to it for extended periods of time.
The slaves have been exposed to the sound long enough to become numbed, and will not react to the party in any way. Only a neutralize poison spell will cure the effects of the mind-numbing. Otherwise, the slaves remain mind-numb for a week.
The cloaker is clinging to the west wall among other cloaks and blankets. It looks like a semi-circular cape with a long mace- like tail, and has two claws at the ends of the cape. Upon its back are many round, black, button-like eyespots. When the cloaker con- ceals its tail and claws it is hard to distin- guish it from a real cloak. A cloaker has no head, but it has a mouth in the middle of its belly and two red, glowing eyespots that appear to be eyes. Because a cloaker has so many eyespots it has no effective rear to attack.
Cloakers attack by flying at their victim and enveloping the character in their folds on a successful roll to hit. An enveloped character cannot fight as his arms are pinned to his side. The cloaker then attacks any characters trying to rescue their friend with its tail, striking twice each round. The tail is AC 1 and can take 16 points of dam- age before it is cut off, At the same time, it bites its enwrapped victim for 1-4 points of damage plus the base AC of the character each round. Attacks with a weapon against a cloaker who has enveloped a character cause half damage to the cloaker and half damage to the victim. Fire attacks do full damage to both the cloaker and its victim.
Cloakers use their subsonic moaning powers to subdue their opponents before they attack. The cloaker may not bite and moan at the same time, Cloakers can vary the intensity of their moaning and thus alter its effects. The lowest intensity will cause nervousness to all characters within 80 feet, and causes the characters to fight at -2 to hit. The second level of intensity causes fear, as per the fear spell, to all creatures within 30
feet who fail to save vs. Spells. This effect only lasts for two turns. The next level of intensity has an area of effect that is a cone 30 feet long and 20 feet wide at its open end. Anyone caught within the cone must save vs. Poison or be helpless due to nausea and retching for 2-5 rounds, similar to a stinking cloud spell. The final intensity can only be used against one person at a time, It acts as a hold person spell and its effects last five rounds, Stone blocks the effects of the moaning.
A cloaker also has the power to manipu- late shadows and will throw them across its opponent' faces or surround itself with shadow, thus giving it an effective AC of 1. The shadow manipulation is so precise, it can even create images out of shadows and often creates doubles of itself which are treated like a mirror image spell.
The cloaker will allow the party to enter the room and approach within 30 feet, then it will change its moan to induce fear. Next it will cause weakness and the hold its victim and attack, throwing shadows across the faces of its opponents. If seriously hurt (more than two-thirds of its hit points gone) it will create doubles and flit off into the shadows.
Near the west door is a hobgoblin ser- geant standing slack-jawed and staring. He was sent to check on the slaves, but had not been warned of the effects of prolonged exposure to the moaning of the cloaker. Now he has become mind-numbed. He is wearing a cloak of protection +2 which he stole from one of the new slaves, but he is unaware of its abilities.
Cloaker: AC 3 body/1 tail; MV 1"/15"; HD 6; hp 33; #AT 2 + special; D 1-6 each + special
26. Armorer's Smithy
A large furnace against the south corner is aglow as two orcs pump bellows on either side of it. The smith appears human and is presently working on a
sword. The room is filled with weapons (many of which are broken) and armor- er's tools.
The smith is a retired half-orc 3d level fighter. He is wearing a long leather apron. The two orcs are his assistants. The smith only cares about his work. If the party doesn't bother him (or his wife in the next room), he won't bother the party. If he is attacked, he will send the two orcs off to room 29 to raise the alarm while he fights
with his back to the furnace so he cannot be taken from behind. The total value of the weapons and tools in this room is 300 gp, if the party can manage to load them onto ani- mals for resale. The smith has no treasure but wears a small key on a chain around his neck. This key fits the iron box in his quar- ters. Smith (3d level fighter): AC 8; MV 9”; HD 3; hp 20; #AT 1; D 1-8 Orc assistants: AC8; MV 9^; HD 1; hp 5 each; #AT 1; D 1-8
27. Armorer's Quarters
The room contains one large bed and typical bedroom furniture. There is a loft
in the west end of the room with a ladder leading up to it. The room is being cleaned by a stout orc matron.
The orc matron is the armorer's wife. She will scream hysterically if she sights the party. Her screams rouse the armorer and his assistants in room 26 and the guards in room 29, who rush to her defense. In the room, beneath the bed, are two mangy, tor- toise shell cats. They are playing with a sil- ver thimble worth 5 gp. In the floor beneath a small bed table is a stone which may be tilted to reveal an iron box beneath. The box is locked and inside are the plans for a beau- tiful suit of plate mail, a pouch with four agates worth 15 gp each, and a pair of calli- pers. There are two pallets in the loft for the orc assistants and one has been carving a piece of wood into a model for a new pole arm head.
Orc matron: AC 10; MV 9"; HD 1-1; hp 4; FAT 1; D 1-6
28, Storeroom
The room appears to be a storeroom and
contains bins half-filled with an assort- ment of supplies.
The supplies are typical equipment for a garrison; spare leather straps, rivets, nails, bolts of cheap cloth, iron rations, and so forth. The equipment (which is too bulky to carry) is worth 250 gp. The room contains nothing else of value.
29. Orc Barracks
The room contains four double bunk beds with eight orcs sleeping in them.
Four of the orcs are supposed to be patrol- ling the halls but they got bored and went back to sleep. They will be surprised on 1-5. The orcs snatch up their swords to defend themselves. If an alarm is raised, they take one round to don their armor before answering the alarm. These orcs work for Estelrath the slave merchant, and do not care for the hobgoblins running this fort, so they tend to be lax in their duty. They rush to the aid of the armorer or his wife; because one of the armorer's assistants is a half- brother to the sergeant, These orcs have a total of 3 gp, 7 sp, and 31 cp.
Orcs: AC 10 (6); МУ 9”; HD 1; hp 5 each; ЖАТ 1; D 1-8
30. Orc Officer Quarters
This room appears to be quarters for orcs. There is an orc snoring from where he lies sprawled across a bed. Sitting behind a table, glassy-eyed, is another
orc. On the table in front of him is a cask with a spigot in it and two spilled mugs. The floor of the room is littered with three wine bottles.
The two half-orcs here are the sergeant and commander for the orcs in room 29. They have recently completed a drinking bout, and the sergearit won. He is bleary and incoherent, but will speak to the char- acters in orcish. He will feel that something is vaguely wrong, but can't put his finger on it. The sergeant has a pair of brass bracers worth 10 gp and 14 gp in a pouch stuffed in his right boot. The commander has a gold ring worth 25 gp, an ivory handled dagger worth 30 gp, and 18 gp in a bag beneath him. In a pouch on the side of the bed is a roll of paper, marked with incoherent lines. This is a map of the slave route, but will be of little use without the interpretation of the commander.
Half-ores: AC 4; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 11 each; #AT 1; D 1-8
31. Guest Bedroom
This room contains a bed and several folding cots. Sitting at a desk, writing, is
a gray-bearded man wearing a drab gray cloak. He looks up as the you open the door and asks what һе can do for you,
This is Estelrath Tancred, a slave mer- chant. He is currently waiting for his selec-
tion of slaves to be prepared for the drive to market, and is getting bored with the delay. Beneath his cloak he wears chain mail and a long sword. He will be willing to listen to the party, believing them to be mercenaries until they prove by ignorance to be other- wise. Then he will waste time until his two guards return from the kitchen with the meal he ordered.
Estelrath's two guards are a pair of cavel- ings created especially for him by Markessa, the director of this slaving operation. The two cavelings were once elves, but no longer bear any resemblance to that race. They are called Cari and Filch, and respond only to Estelrath's simple verbal commands. Both have gray scaly hides, which gives them a 90% chance to hide in shadows natu- rally. They have large, bulbous eyes, infra- vision to 90 feet, and clawed, padded feet with which they may climb like cats and move silently with an 80% chance of suc- cess, Thus, they surprise on a roll of 1-5 on 1dé.
Cari and Filch return five rounds after the party enters the room. If the door is closed they listen at the door first, Then they knock and Cari will hide beside the door while Filch tries to draw the intruders out of the room. Neither can talk.
Estelrath has a leather chest under his bed. In the chest are 600 gp, 20 pp, and five amethysts worth 50 gp each. There are also papers detailing the slave route and these can be used to lead the party to the next stage of the adventure. On the desk, where Estelrath was working, is a thin wand of wood. This is a springerie or a wand of opening. When struck against a locked or bound object the object will be opened, sim- ilar to the effect of a knock spell. The wand has 12 charges left.
Both Cari and Filch wear loin cloths and belts, but nothing else.
Estelrath Tancred: AC 5; MV 9"; F 5; hp 29; 4AT 1; D 1-8 Cari: AC 6; MV 15"; HD 2; hp 17; #AT 2; D by weapon and 2-7; $ 16, 14, W 4, D 16, Con 16, Cha 5 Cari has enlarged hands and a tail with a stinger (save vs. Poison or start to itch). Characters itching are unable to cast spells and fight at -2 to hit. Cari's favorite tactic is to sneak up on a character and trip him or her with a successful to hit roll at +4, and then sting the character at +4 to hit.
Filch: AC 6; MV 15”; HD 2; hp 9; #AT 2; D by weapon; S 12, 15, W 4, D 16, Con 11, Cha 4
Filch has a prehensile, gripping tail and
long thin fingers with which he can pick pockets with a 75% chance of success. Filch also likes to attack from behind at +4 to hit, if attacking with surprise. Filch's favorite tactic is to jump on the back of his victim and lock his legs around the character's chest, Then he stabs the character with two daggers, one held in his hand, the other in his tail.
32. Ogre’s Quarters
When this door is opened the party sees a table set with wine and cheese. Along the back wall is a large bed. Over it hangs a heavy bow and a quiver of arrows. If the Executioner is present, they also see a large, brutish man lovingly polishing a sword. He wears a fine, black chain mail and black hood with eyeholes, like an executioner's mask. He looks up and smiles, welcoming the new mercenaries and invites them to come in and sit down, while he discusses their new duties.
The Executioner (see NPC Leader Place- ment) flips the table over on anyone stupid enough to sit down (stunning them for one round). He will then attack fallen adventur- ers at +4 to hit, and call for help.
There is nothing of value in his room. Only a character with Strength 18 can bend the bow, but it allows the user to add his or her Strength bonus to damage caused by arrows fired from this bow.
33. Servant's Quarters
The sound of laughter and fighting can be heard coming from this room.
In this room are a number of goblins and kobolds, crowded around an impromptu arena made by turning a number of bunks on their sides and pushing them together to form a rough square.
The goblins and kobolds are watching a match between a halfling armed with a table leg and a badger with its rear legs tied together. The eight goblins and the ten kobolds are jeering, drinking beer, and bet- ting on the outcome of the combat. The goblins are guests from the visiting slaver's caravan; the kobolds are servants of the hill fort. The goblins are armed with short swords, while the kobold's carry daggers. There is a total of 17 sp and 50 cp in this room.
Once the party attacks, if the halfling has not been killed by the badger, three kobolds enter the arena. Two move to kill the half- ling and the other attracts the attention of
the badger. If the halfling survives, he will grab any weapon at hand and help the party. He knows nothing about the fort.
Halfling: AC 10; MV 12; LVL 0; hp 3; ZAT 1; D 1-3
Badger: AC 4; MV 6"; HD 1+2; hp 6; FAT 1; D 1-3
Goblins (8): AC 4; MV 9"; HD 1; hp 4 each; FAT 1; D 1-6
Kobolds (10): AC 10; MV 9*; HD 1/2; hp 2 each; #AT 1; D 1-4
A. Stairs Up
Here are a flight of stairs leading up to a trapdoor in the ceiling. There is a bolt on
this side, but it is open. Still the trapdoor seems to be locked.
34. Second Floor Guard Tower
The stairs from the first floor lead up to a trap door which is closed.
The trap door is bolted shut from the other side. It opens to the second floor which is one large room. The walls and roof of this room are made of heavy timbers, not stone like the rest of the fort. There are arrow slits in the walls for archers to fire through. Doors in the north wall open onto a balcony above the inner courtyard (13). Rows of bunk beds stretch down the middle of the room. There are two large barrels filled with water and half dozen wooden buckets for putting out fires.
The second floor houses a garrison of 20 hobgoblins armed with short bow and long sword. Ten of the hobgoblins are currently on guard, two at each wall and two on the balcony. Two hobgoblin leaders are also in the room; one is asleep. If the party is sighted, the hobgoblins ring one of the main alarm bells located on the balcony and attack. The hobgoblins carry a total of 9 gp, 12 sp and 73 cp.
Hobgoblins (20): АС 5; MV 9"; HD 1+1; hp 6 each; #AT 1 or 2; D by weapon Hobgoblin leaders (2): AC 4; MV 9”; HD 2; hp 9 each; ҒАТ 1 or 2; D by weapon
35. The Kitchen
From beyond the door to this room may be heard laughter. There is also the odor of burning flesh. These doors open inward, into the room beyond.
As you open the doors, you hear a shouted command. This room appears to be a huge kitchen, over 50 feet long and wide, and 40 feet tall. About the room are piles of crates and kegs, as well as several tables and cabinets, In the cen- ter of the room is a large fire pit, the fire in it licking at the charred head of a giant lizard hanging head down into the fire by a chain from the ceiling.
(If Icar is present:) You also see a 7- foot-tall black man in black plate mail armor poking and turning the roasting lizard with a two handed sword. He turns to face the door, as the party enters, and you see that his helm has no eyeholes.
At a table in the east end of the room sit three barbaric looking men, all bristly bearded with coarse red hair. They have mugs of beer in their left hands and smil- ingly lift hand axes off the tabletop and hurl them at the party.
As the hand axes are thrown, Icar (see NPC Leader section) will shout another command and step behind an enormous wine cask about 30 feet in front of the door. At the same time, six hobgoblins who have been concealed behind stacks of kegs and crates to either side of the doorway stand up and throw their hand axes. Those hand axes thrown by the hobgoblins are at medium range and are at -2 to hit, those thrown by the wereboars at the table are thrown from long range and are -5 to hit.
Immediately after throwing their hand axes, the three men, who are actually were- boars in human form, duck behind the table and change into boars. One round later, the wereboars charge forth. They move to attack fighters and those characters who talk, presuming them to be the leaders.
Icar, if present, will kick the legs out from under the cask of wine and send it rolling toward the door. The large cask will cause 1-6 points of damage to those in its path who fail to save vs. Rods to evade it, and all in its path will be stunned for one round. Icar will then rush forward and attack the most formidable fighters.
Icar will then use one of his favorite tac- tics, attempting to drive opponents back to the fire pit and then force them into it on a score 4 better then the number needed to strike the opponent. The fire pit will cause 3-18 points of damage per round; save vs. Breath Weapon for half damage. As a last defensive measure, he will stand in the fire
pit using the lizard for cover (+4 to his AC) and throw handfuls of flaming grease at the party (treat as flasks of oil),
There are eight hobgoblins in the room. The six near the door, after throwing their hand axes, attack the less formidable look- ing characters in the party with swords. The two remaining hobgoblins throw flasks of oil into the melee from behind cover. They have three flasks of oil each. Then they attack with cleavers (treat as hand axes). Successful hits with the oil will cause 2-12 points of damage the first round and 1-6 points the second round. Characters within 5 feet of thrown oil take 1-3 points of dam- age from splashed oil.
The room is full of crates, casks, tuns, boxes, and barrels of all descriptions. They all contain food and drink of various kinds— mostly foul by human standards. Besides the two tables where the wereboars were sitting and two benches each, there is another table near the fire pit. Shelves line the walls and contain more foodstuffs and crude tableware. The only things of value in the room are the belts that the wereboars wear, each of which is inlaid with gold and worth 150 gp. Icar wears a large set of keys on his belt to the various doors in the fort, but not to his treasure room.
Spread out on one of the cupboards, and held down by a loaf of bread and a cup of wine, is a letter from the slave lords. It is written in a special raised script so that Icar can read it; a comprehend languages spell is necessary for anyone else to read it. lt requests that a group of newly acquired slaves be sent to them for questioning and gives directions which will start the adven- turers in the general direction of Suderham.
Icar (7th level fighter): AC 1; MV 12”; hp 59; ҒАТ 3/2; D 3-12
Equipment: Icar wields a two handed sword *1 called Death's Master. He wears a ring of fire resistance and is thus immune to the effects of normal fire and saves at +4 vs magical fire, The ring also sub- tracts two points per die of damage caused by magical fire.
Wereboars (3): AC 4; MV 12”; HD 5+2; hp 27, 23, 21; #AT 1; D 2-12; hit only by silver or magical weapons
Hobgoblins (8): AC 6; MV 9*; HD 1 *1; hp 7 each; #AT 1; D 1-8
36. Cook's Quarters The room looks like a typical bedroom, though slovenly kept.
73
The cook, a half orc, will be hiding under the bed if fighting took place in room 34. He will surprise and attack with a dagger any character looking under the bed. He has 14 sp.
Half orc cook: AC 10; MV 9*; HD 1; hp 5; #AT 1; D 1-6
37. Wereboars' Quarters
This room contains three beds, a short table, and four stools. The room is filthy and foul-smelling. A bed of straw is in the northwest corner. On the straw is a wild boar, which immediately rises, squealing, to attack the party.
The boar is the pet of the wereboars in room 36. lt is normally fed meat, and is very aggressive. There is nothing of value in this room.
Boar: AC 7; MV 15”; HD 3 *3; hp 22; #AT 1; D 3-12
38a. Larder
The room is filled with dry goods, smoked meats, canned goods, and other non-perishable food. The room contains no treasure.
38b. Storeroom
The room is filled with shelves contain- ing dirty pots, pans, and dishes.
This room is where the humanoids throw their dirty dishes until there are no clean ones left, at which time the wereboars gather up the servants and make sure all the dishes are washed. There is a concealed door behind a set of shelves in the south wall. The door can be found by moving one of the shelf sections which swings out. This door leads to stairs which go down to the dungeon level.
39. Icar’s Quarters
This room appears to be someone's quar- ters. There is a simple bed in the north- east corner and a small circular table with two chairs. On the table is a bottle
of wine and a chess board. At the foot of the bed is a carved wooden chest. The chest has been carved to depict a battle scene in high relief. Hanging on the wall is a shield, a leather cloak, a shirt, a man-
dolin, and a skald's field harp. On the bed
is a fur covering. There is a door in the south end of the room with a big lock on it.
This is Icar's quarters. None of the items on the wall are of any real value, and the shield is missing its arm strap. The wine is of good quality. The chessboard has a raised grid pattern, so that it can be felt by Icar. The chest is filled with clothing, neither rich nor well cared for. The fur on the bed is worth 18 gp. If the characters attempts to move the furniture, they discover that it is bolted to the floor with the exception of the bed. This is so Icar knows where everything is. Underneath the bed is a trapdoor, bolted on this side. The trapdoor leads to the dungeon complex below.
The door in the south wall leads to a 10- foot-square closet where a medusa is kept prisoner, guarding Icar’s treasure. Above the door, on the lintel, is hidden the key to the door. The medusa is terrified of Icar because he is invulnerable to her major power and she knows that he has access to a periapt of proof against poison (from room 17). The medusa is chained to the wall and will guard lear’s treasure with her life. If the party tries the closet door, she will cry out in anger, "Icar, you snake's belly, release me.”
lcar's treasure is in an iron chest cemented into the floor. The treasure is 2,000 gp, 10 matched pieces of jet worth 100 gp each, and 10 matched silver and black opal brace- lets worth 200 gp each. In the chest is a locked hammered brass coffer. The coffer has a very intricate lock and a thief's chance to open it js -15%. A potion of undead con- trol, a potion of diminution, a clerical scroll with wind walk, cure light wounds, feign death, cure serious wounds, purify food and drink, and resurrection, a ring of warmth, and Quaal's Feather Token.
There is a parchment covered with strange raised lettering inside the chest. A comprehend languages spell will reveal that the parchment gives directions about the specialist quarters (area 25 in the dungeon) and details where the secret doors to the treasure room (which contains the rest of Ісаг5 treasure) are located. The treasure consists of 5,000 gp, one uncut ruby worth 500 gp, and eight uncut sapphires worth 250 gp each. If the stones are cut by a jeweler their value will increase by four times. There is also a potion of oil of etherealness and a clerical scroll of atonement.
Medusa: AC 5; MV 9^: HD 6; hp 27; #AT 1; D 1-4 * poison; SA gaze turns to stone
DUNGEON LEVEL
Wandering Monsters
These encounters only occur in corridors and empty or emptied rooms. These mon- sters are encountered on a roll of 1 on 1dé, checked each turn.
Die Roll Monster Number 1 Giant rats 4-24 2 Baby boggle 1 3 Goblin Patrol 6-15 4 Witch doctor & patrol 4-13 5 Wolves 1-3 6 Haunt 1
Rats: These creatures surprise on a roll of 1-4 оп 146. If they are encountered by only one or two characters they attack. If the party is larger when encountered the rats sit and watch the intruders intently, allowing the party to pass unmolested.
Giant rats: АС?; МУ 12”; HD 1/2; hp 3 each; ҒАТ 1; D 1-3
Rat leader: AC 7; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 7; FAT 1; D 1-4
Boggle: This boggle child has wandered away from the lair and climbed the wall and is hiding in the shadows ready to spring down on unwary passerbys. It will surprise on à roll of 1-5 on 1d6, leaping down on a random character and stunning for one round. The creature will then grab the char- acter's weapon and run down the hall gig- gling, stopping and waving the weapon at the party, encouraging them to chase. It will lead the party on a merry chase down the hall, up the wall and over their heads. Char- acters may attempt to catch it by rolling to hit AC 9, but once the boggle is grabbed it will slip out of their hands like a greased pig. If the creature takes half damage it won't think the chase is fun anymore and will throw the weapon at the party and dimen- sion door through a nearby rat hole.
Boggle baby: AC 5; MV 9”; HD 2; hp 14; #AT 3; D 1 each
Goblin Patrol: This patrol is returning to their barracks and is tired. Their leader is a gruff one-eyed hobgoblin. They are all armed with throwing spears and short swords. Once the party is sighted, the leader will send a goblin to sound the alarm and then attempt to hold the party till reinforce- ments arrive. They throw their spears first.
74
Goblins: AC 6; MV 6% HD 1; hp 4 each; FAT 1; D 1-6
Hobgoblin: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 1+1; hp 7; #АТ 1; D 1-8
Witch doctor; Guliyet, a goblin witch doctor, is accompanied by 3-12 goblin guards carrying spears. They are taking a message to [саг from Markessa, requesting six mind-numbed slaves and the presence of Estelrath the slaver. Guliyet is Markessa's assistant and apprentice. She carries a large whistle that can be blown from both ends: one end sounds the alarm, and the other makes no sound but summons a large white wolf, a winter wolf, which arrives in two rounds. She wears a bronze amulet worth 30 gp.
Guliyet: AC 2; MV 6"; MU 4/C 4; hp 13;
FAT 1; D 1-6 Spells (clerical): cure light wounds, dark-
ness, resist fear, chant, resist fire Spells (magic-user): affect normal fires,
push, shield, invisibility, scare Goblins: AC 2; MV 6"; HD 1; hp 4 each;
#AT 1; D 1-6 Winter wolf: AC 5; MV 18"; HD 6; hp 30;
#AT 1; D 2-8 (6-24)
Wolves: The wolves used to guard the dungeon are sometimes allowed to roam free. They snarl and attack if they are sur- prised or attacked. If not surprised they act curious, but irritable and hungry.
Wolves: AC 7; MV 18*; HD 2+2; hp 11 each; #AT 1; D 2-8
Haunt: This haunt is the spirit of a slave who was killed in this area while trying to escape. The haunts mission is to escape from the hill fort. Any character possessed by the haunt will try to take the shortest way out of the dungeon unless the haunt is convinced by the party that safety and the best chance of escape lies in numbers.
Haunt: AC 0; MV 6”; HD 5; hp 27; #AT 1; D special Key To the Dungeon
1. Secret Guardroom
Sitting at a long table in the middle of the room, apparently eating dinner, are sev- eral goblins. They appear to be sur-
prised. The southwest corner of the room has been barred off to form a cell and holds a man covered with bruises.
These 12 goblins are not really surprised. At a sign from their hobgoblin leader (hid-
ing in the observation alcove to the side of the door), they pick up concealed crossbows and fire at the party. Then they pick up wooden clubs and attack. The hobgoblin leader will attack with surprise one round after the goblin charge, with his morning star.
This room is a secret guardpost to observe the trap at the end of the corridor and to relieve anyone coming into the dungeon of their metal weapons and armor. A constant watch is maintained on the hall from the spy alcove and this is how the gob- lins were warned about the party before they entered the room. Normally the gob- lins allow intruders to be caught by the lode- stone and then burst forth from the secret room and club them unconscious with wooden clubs. They then remove their gear, bind and gag apparent spell-casters and lock them in the cell until their superiors can be summoned. If the party manages to get past the trap the goblins send a runner upstairs to sound the alarm.
The spy alcove has a tall stool with a pad- ded seat and a spy hole cut in the wall to provide a view of the end of the corridor.
The only treasure in this room are a couple of kitchen knives and what the gob- lins and their leader carry. The goblins each have 2-12 silver pieces concealed some- where on their persons. The hobgoblin leader has a pouch with a large brass key to the door at 7, 20 gp, and a cracked piece of ivory worth 75 gp in a cloth sack stuffed under his armor.
The man in the cell has been severely beaten by the goblins and has completely lost his senses. All he thinks about is food and he makes only unintelligible grunts. The first thing he will do once released is charge past the party and start wolfing down food off the table.
Goblins (12): AC 6; MV 6” HD 1; hp 4 each; AAT 1; D 1-6
Hobgoblin leader: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 1+1; hp 6; AAT 1; D 1-8
A. Secret Door
This secret door has recently been con- structed by Markessa's engineer and is not the best match. Elves searching for secret doors automatically find it. In order to draw attention away from the spot an oil lamp has been lit and hung at the far end of the corridor on the west wall.
2. Entry Hall
The corridor at the foot of the stairs is cloaked with a mantle of dust and cob- webs, and the air is cool and earthy. The hall slopes down to the north here and
the walls are damp. At the end of this 90- foot corridor the hall turns to the west and a lit oil lamp hangs on the west wall throwing a feeble amber light. The hall is 10 feet wide.
At the end of the hall, hidden in the hol- low wall, is a powerful lodestone or mag- net. The range of its magnetic pull is 15 feet, so the party will not have any warning of its existence until they are within range of it. Those wearing ferrous armor—scale mail or better, including most magical armor—will be drawn suddenly and forcefully against the wall. Also, those within range of the wall will find any ferrous objects held in hand jerked away and flung against the wall to hang there. Sheathed or tied down iron objects swivel on their bindings and point toward the wall. If the equivalent of two or more long swords worth of iron-based metal (120 gp weight) is carried by a charac- ter, he will also be drawn to the wall. The second rank of the party will be able to react to the first rank being caught in the trap and if they save vs. Petrifaction at +4, they avoid being caught in the trap.
If characters leave behind all their large ferrous objects they may cross the lode- stone's area of effect without being trapped. Characters with a Strength of 15 or greater and wearing banded mail or less, may slide sideways along the wall at the rate of 5 feet per round, until out of range of the trap; others must remain stuck.
Two characters will be able to carry metal items equal to 200 gp weight around the area of effect, if their combined Strength equals 25 or greater, Three characters have no difficulty moving items weighing up to 350 gp, such as banded mail, around the corner. Any item that actually becomes stuck to the magnet will require a combined Strength of 36 or more to remove by sliding it along the wall.
3. Abandoned Guardroom
The door opens onto a short hallway.
The air is cool and damp and the area seems totally deserted.
A wooden table stands in the center of the room. Three benches, two wood stools, and
75
a couple of cots also adorn the room. Beneath one of the cots is a brass bound chest, 3 feet wide, 2 feet deep, and 11/2 feet high. It is locked and the lock is jammed by a piece of wire which might be mistaken for a broken needle or trigger wire by a party casually examining it. A clinking sound will be heard if the chest is moved. There are three 5-foot lengths of chain and two old padlocks on the chest. On the table are the remains of a dinner of horse meat and watered beer. In one mug filled to the brim are 2 gp.
In the southeast corner of the room is a stool with a pair of leather boots nearby. The boots are unremarkable, except that the soles are worn through and they are particu- larly small. If examined closely, the wall behind the stool appears to be of a different stone than the rest of the dungeon. lt is actu- ally painted canvas stretched across a wooden frame. (To those using infravision in the dark, the concealed door appears to be just a door.) A careful examination of the wall will quickly reveal how to open the concealed door. Behind the door is a winch used to lower a stone block between the lodestone and the wall, to release those stuck in the trap.
4.Parlor
Ahead in the corridor is a ghostly white shape hovering above the floor just beyond an archway. No noise comes
from it and it seems to shift slowly. The corridor is dusty and looks seldom trav- eled. Cobwebs drape the ceiling in little feathery patches.
The figure is the webbed form of a dead adventurer, hung as a lure by two giant spi- ders. The spiders are on the ceiling, con- cealed as piles of cobwebs above the arches. They surprise the party on a roll of 1-3 on dó
The spiders cut a web free to fall in a 10 foot x 10 foot area upon the largest group near the lure. Surprised party members are caught; others must save vs. Paralyzation to avoid the trap.
Those caught free themselves in a number of rounds equal to 19 minus the Strength of the character. Fire or a burning hands spell destroy the web, but also do damage to those inside the web. Oil or a torch cause 2-8 points of damage.
Once the party is webbed, the spiders attack, carefully keeping their targets between other party members and them-
selves. Thus the spiders cannot be shot by missiles and must be engaged in melee. All attacks from those trapped by the web are at -4 to hit. Attacks upon those trapped are at *2 to hit.
The corpse in the web bundle is a shriv- eled husk, with a strange grimace upon its face and its hand at its chin, Between its stiff jaws is a ring of infravision. In a pouch at its waist are 10 pp.
Giant spiders: АС 4; HD 4+4; hp 26, 20; AAT 1; D 2-8 + poison
5. Storeroom
The room is filled with chests, bundles,
and crates of various tradegoods. It appears to be deserted.
This room is used as a storeroom for cara- van tradegoods and contains several bales of good linen, crates of tin pots and pans, and several chests of china dishes wrapped in straw. The tradegoods are worth a total of 450 gp, but are very bulky and hard to carry. As characters examine the contents of this room they hear a faint, repeated hiss coming from somewhere in the room. If they attempt to find the source of the hiss- ing, they find that it moves. The hissing comes from a pair of 2-inch-long roaches which live in the room. The roaches offer no danger.
6. Abandoned Storeroom
This room appears to be a storeroom. The piles of tradegoods are dust covered and appear not to have been touched for some time. Suddenly there is a hair- raising moan and the clanking of chains from the northeast corner of the room.
There a luminescent shape begins to form the figure of a wasted elf struggling with ghostly chains that hold him to the wall. As the party watches, the figure breaks its chains and comes rushing for- ward.
The figure is actually a phantom, a three- dimensional image which appears similar to a ghost or a haunt. Any creature who looks at a phantom must save vs. Spells at -2 or flee in terror as if affected by a fear spell. A phantom is merely an image or mirage and cannot attack nor react to other creatures. Phantoms are soulless shells of creatures who died hideous deaths and recreate images of the death trial or images of what
the departed soul was thinking most about when it died. The image does not move from the spot where the creature died, but replays the story like a 3-dimensional movie.
This is the phantom of an elf slave who was being tortured in the torture chamber and burst his bonds to escape. After the fig- ure breaks its chains and seems to rush for- ward panting, its eyes gleaming madly, its hands twisted into claws, it will turn and appear to flee up stairs looking back wildly over its shoulders. The elf then appears to run down a corridor and around a corner to a hallway with many doors. He scrabbles at the latch to one door until it opens, terror written all over his face. Into a room he runs, but it appears to have no other exits. Looking over his shoulder in stark horror he beats the wall and attempts to tear a torch holder off a wall. As he does so, a section of the wall opens and he leaps through the gap desperately. Behind him bound dark, hairy, slavering forms, running on four legs. Down a darkened passage the elf stumbles, only the pale yellow of his eyes visible. Sud- denly there is light as the wall at the end of the passage opens into a hall and he bursts forth beating off the baying pack of wolves that try to drag him down. Through an arch he runs and there on his left is another door. He pushes the door open, but too late, as a great white wolf leaps upon his back and bears him down into the storeroom, ripping his throat. Then the mangled form of the unfortunate slave is dragged off into a cor- ner to be devoured by the slavering wolves.
If the players watch the entire sequence through they may figure out where the secret door is located. If they leave the room the sequence will not begin again for an hour.
B. Secret Door
This secret door is opened by pressing on a stone in the west wall at waist height. The door is opened and closed from the inside by a lever in the west wall,
7. Log Trap
This corridor slopes gradually upward to the east for 50 feet, and then ends in a
wooden wall with a door set in the mid- dle of it.
In the center of this corridor is a covered pit, 10 feet long, 71/2 feet wide, and 20 feet deep, indistinguishable from the corridor floor. The tracks on the floor and over the
76
pit show only that the area is often traveled, for there is no dust on the floor over the pit. The cover of the pit will fall open when the first person walks on it, dropping the char- acter 20 feet into a 4-foot-deep pool of water. The water will cushion the fall and the character will only take 1d6 points of damage. Heavy tapping of the floor with a staff or club will also cause the pit cover to fall open. Once open, the cover will remain open. The narrow ledges around the edges of the pit are just wide enough to walk across, but only if one goes slowly and care- fully.
The door has a wooden face of a leering goblin carved in it at chest height. The door is trapped, but no trap may be detected because the trigger is on the other side of the door. A long chain stretches from the back of the door to a board restraining a boarded up alcove at the end of the corridor. The wooden goblin face can be rotated to reveal a large keyhole. With the right key this lock may be turned, disconnecting the chain from the door. Otherwise, once the door is pulled open, the boards over the alcove col- lapse, releasing a large pile of logs, each 9 feet long, to roll down the corridor. When this happens read the following to the play- ers:
Through the door comes the sound of cracking and splintering wood and you
see the enormous pile of logs crashing down the corridor, straight toward you.
Give the party one minute of real tíme to say exactly what each character is going to do. The logs smash through the false wooden wall and continue rolling to crash into the end of the corridor. Characters may not run across the ledges to either side of the pit to escape. If they attempt to, they fall into the pit. If they take their time to main- tain their balance, they will be caught and smashed by the logs, suffering 18 points of damage, just as they reach the other side of the pit. Those who choose to jump into the pit take only 1d4 points of damage and the logs roll right across the pit. Characters who climb walls may also avoid the logs if they save vs. Spells, otherwise they take half damage from the logs: 9 points.
If the trap is approached from the other direction, the party will see the boarded up alcove and the chain leading from the door to the retaining wall. The logs are not visi- ble.
The only way to deactivate the trap from this side is to break the chain. Each charac-
ter is allowed one try at breaking it, and a successful bend bars roll means that the chain is broken. Any attempt to break the chain has a one-third chance of triggering the trap (1-2 on d6).
8. Boggle Lair
The entire corridor here—walls, ceiling, and floor—is a grillwork with 1 foot x 1 foot spaces, extending for about 60 feet.
The stone bars that form the grillwork seem to be covered with a thick, black liquid that looks.
This area is the lair of two boggles. Bog- gles are vaguely humanoid creatures, about 3 feet tall and varying in color from blackish-blue to gray. They all have large, bulbous heads, but the rest of their body parts are disproportionate and vary from individual to individual, such as large noses, uneven arms, spindly legs, and so forth. Boggles are not very intelligent and tend to be whiners and gibberers when deal- ing with other races. However, when encountered in their lair they are aggressive and voracious.
Boggles have rubbery skin and they secrete a viscous, nonflammable, black oil that is extremely slippery. Due to their slip- periness and the resiliency of their hide, all attacks upon boggles are reduced by 1 point of damage per die. Boggles like to spread their oil about their lair, making footing slippery and unsure for intruders. For every 10 feet a character travels across this area or for every round spent fighting here a char- acter must roll his or her Dexterity or less on 1d20 or fall down. Falling does no damage, but a character who falls may do nothing for one round while he or she stands back up.
Boggles are resistant to fire (as the ring), and they can naturally spider climb. They also have a natural ability to dimension door (3" range) by stepping, diving, or reaching through anything resembling a frame, such as holes, the grillwork, cracks, doorways, etc, They use this ability to reach through one section of the grill and have their hand come out elsewhere to grab or strike at a character from another side.
Boggles are also slightly elastic and may stretch or contract to twice or one-half their normal size. Finally, they have a keen sense of smell and can even detect invisible crea- tures with this sense. Thus they are often used as watchers and alarms by other races. When they sense intruders they set up a
high-pitched, keening wail.
The two boggles appear from walls, floor, and ceiling to strike at and trip intruders (roll 1d4 to see which direction they attack from) and then retreat through the nearest wall. Upon examination, the grillwork will be discovered to actually be a honeycomb of 1 foot x 1 foot x 2 foot deep niches into which the boggles dive and disappear. If anything is thrown at the boggles they attempt to catch it (roll a successful “to hit” vs. AC 8 to catch) and either throw it back at the party or take it to their nest. The nest is only accessible via dimension door or other magical means. They are semi- intelligent and try to steal treasure and weapons to keep them from being used to hurt the boggles, and throw back other things such as oil. Each boggle may attempt to steal an item from a person who had fallen by making a successful “to hit" roll vs. AC 5. Boggles may also drop from the ceil- ing upon characters and attack with two additional claws added to their normal claw/claw/bite routine (like a cat).
Characters have to be inventive to get through this area quickly. One possibility is taking pieces of lumber from area 7 and tobogganing across the grill. This works very well because of the oil on the grill bars.
Boggles: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4 * 3; hp 21, 24; ЖАТ 3; D 1-4 each or 1 weapon)
9. Storerooms
From this hallway the party can hear screams of pain and moans of agony
coming from the west. The doors along this corridor all appear to be locked.
These rooms are all locked and contain chests, crates, barrels, bales, casks, and tuns of all description. In these containers are all the things that are necessary for the mainte- nance of the underground stronghold. Unfortunately, none of it is much use to the adventurers. There is a great deal of food, especially honey and cheese, much clothing, and goblin-sized leather armor, collars, lumber, torture apparatus, chains, and so forth.
10. Storeroom
This room appears to be a storeroom. Several crates have been pushed aside and a chest has been overturned to be
used as a table with a couple of casks for stools. On the overturned chest are a
guttered candle in a tin candleholder, and a dog-eared deck of cards. On the
back wall is a torch bracket with an unlit torch in it.
This room is used by a couple of hobgob- lin leaders to play cards. Beneath one of the casks are stuffed four face cards of the same suit. Rolled into the shadows of one crate is asilver piece dropped during one game. The torch bracket in the back wall is the trigger to open the secret door in the room. Pulling down on the torch bracket will open the secret door. The secret passage beyond is used to bypass the boggle lair when coming from the fort above.
11. Storeroom
The room appears to be a storeroom. It is
piled high with barrels and stacks of fur- niture wrapped in burlap and rope.
The furniture in this room is of good qual- ity, but has seen a lot of use and most is in need of repair. In the northeast corner is a wardrobe (locked shut). In the wardrobe are three chests of old clothes and linen, neatly folded. On one folded cloak, amongst the piles of clothing, is a mother-of-pearl stick- pin worth 45 gp, but there is nothing else of value. The barrels contain pots and pans and some clay bowls. In the west wall of the room is a secret door. A stack of empty bar- rels has been placed in front of it. The bar- rels can be easily moved by one person in order to search the wall. The secret door is opened by pushing in on one end and pull- ing out on the other.
12. Torture Chamber
Screaming comes from beyond this door and light shines under it. When the door is opened, an enormous pillared room can be seen, in the swaying shadows, set dancing by the light of a chandelier swinging wildly back and forth. The floor is 10 feet below the landing on which the door opens and a set of stairs
leads down into the room. To either side of these steps are 5-foot-ledges. The ceil- ing rises at least 30 feet above the door. This appears to be a torture chamber, for about the room can be seen racks, hanging cages and chains, an iron maiden, fire pits and braziers, and their
unfortunate occupants. Standing
amongst these implements of torture are many goblins. On all sides of the room can also be seen archways, some leading to alcoves, while others are walled up.
Suddenly the swinging chandelier comes crashing down from the ceiling to smash at the top of the stairs, exploding into flame as the oil spills and ignites.
Those characters standing at the top of the stairs will be caught in the burning oil and take 2-12 points of damage the first round and 1-6 points the second round. Those within 5 feet of this spot will be splashed with burning oil for 1-3 points of damage. If a character makes a successful save vs. Paralysis this damage will be reduced to half. The oil will burn for two rounds and then the room will become dark except for the red glowing braziers. Crea- tures without infravision or an additional light source must fight at -4 to hit.
One of the goblins was pulling on the chandelier rope and causing it to swing. He cut the rope to send it crashing when the party appeared. These goblins are led by two bugbear overseers who watch them at their tortures, through two arrow slits, from a secret chamber to the west of the stairs. The goblins use their slings and attempt to keep the intruders at the top of the stairs until the bugbears appear. The goblins fire their slings from cover behind pillars and the various racks gaining an AC of 2 (+4) versus missile attacks. Once the bugbears arrive or the party counterattacks, the gob- lins draw their short swords and charge in groups of four. The worgs come out of their alcove dens and attack if intruders come down into the room. If the battle is going against the goblins, one will run to the south end of the room and disappear, carrying the alarm through the iron maiden to the troops beyond.
In this chamber are 16 goblins. Eight of the goblins are in the central area of the tor- ture room entertaining five unfortunate guests, while four are in the south end of the room sharpening a bed of nails. Two goblins are cleaning up spilled, fresh mortar in the eastern wing, and two more are giving a man with two broken legs an extremely close shave in a western alcove. The goblins carry 6 sp each.
The tortured individuals are beyond help, but any who survive the battle, if ques- tioned, tell the party that there must be an entry into the room at the south end. At the south end of the room there are a bed of nails, an iron maiden, coils of chain 20 feet
long, 4-foot lengths of lumber, pieces of rope 20 feet long, and a keg of nails. The secret door is in the back of the iron maiden, but when it is opened a skeleton will be found impaled on the spikes. The hinge of the iron maiden is stiff and it tends to spring shut. For each spike twisted, there is a 1 in 6 cumulative chance of opening the door,
Goblins (16): AC 6; MV 6”; HD 1; hp 6 each; #AT 1; D sling 1-4 or short sword 1-6
a. Observation Fost
There are two bugbears in this room. There are also two benches and a table at which one bugbear sits constructing a wire face cage. The other is standing by the arrow slits in the south wall watching the room below. As soon as there is a commo- tion in the torture room, they both stare out the slits to determine what is happening. Then they grab their halberds and rush around through the secret tunnel to room 11, to enter the torture chamber by the main door in two rounds. They attack with sur- prise if possible (1-3 on 1d6).
The bugbears have no treasure in their room, but one carries a scroll of cure disease and 60 gp in a pouch.
Bugbears (2); АС 5; MV 9”; HD 3+1; hp 15, 17; ВАТ 1; D 1-10
b. Walled-up Alcove
In the northeast corner of this room, behind several casks of wine, is a freshly bricked-up archway. From behind the wall is heard a rustling sound, as of someone scratching, and the faint jingle of bells. In the alcove is a rabid wolf with bells on its collar which will attack once it is freed, as a 4-hit-dice monster. Anyone bitten must save vs. Poison or die in four turns. A cure disease will prevent death. However, the victim will still be weak (-4 on “to hit” and damage) for four turns.
Rabid wolf: AC 7; MV 18"; HD 2 +2; hp 15; HAT 1; D 2-5
c. Worg Dens
A worg lairs in each of these three cells in the east wall. These worgs sleep on piles of straw and may have a few bones scattered about. If intruders enter the room and come down to attack the goblins, the worgs leap forth and enter the fray.
Worgs: AC 6; MV 18^; HD 4 +4; hp 23, 22, 19; #AT 1; D 2-8
78
d. Secret Door
A stone plug seems to have been used to seal off this alcove as has been done with several of the other cells in this room. This is really a secret door which may be opened by tugging on a chain hanging from the ceiling. Beyond appears to be just another cell with the withered remains of its tenants hanging from one of three pairs of manacles cemented in each wall.
The southern wall has a secret door which is opened by turning the iron ring to which the manacles are attached and pulling. But the door is wizard locked and only Markessa or a 9th level or higher magic-user may open this door. A knock or a dispel magic spell will open this door.
13. Alchemist Secret Storeroom
This room is lit by a ruddy glow, and the air is alive with the aroma of wild herbs and the pungent rot of decaying flesh. The room appears to be storeroom or pantry, for there are crates, bookshelves, a table, and a cabinet all piled high with
boxes, books, clay crocks and canisters, flasks and jars of herbs, and other strange items. The red light seems to come from behind a table in the southest corner. Over the top of the table the head of a hobgoblin can be seen watching the party.
There is no hobgoblin in this room, merely the severed head of one held to the table by a clamp. The eyes have been removed. Books, scrolls, bottles, and dis- section tools litter the tabletop. In a foot- long, tubular leather case is a metal rod with a continual light spell cast on it. This is stuck in a holder on the wall and used to light the room when the alchemist is present.
This room is used as a secret storeroom and hideaway for Markessa, the evil elf fighter/magic-user who is in charge of the fort, and her alchemist, Fyndax. The room also serves as a shortcut through the dungeon, for a narrow, 5-foot-wide passage leads north out of this chamber to Fyndaxes' quarters, bypassing the elite goblin guards. There is no one in the room at present.
In this room are stored the various com- ponents for making potions. There are jars of dried herbs, parts of animals, and leather-bound books about alchemy which only a master could use. The books are filled with strange illustrations and formu- lae, but the word "FYNDAX" can be made out on the title page of each.
In thesoutheast corner is a round wooden table containing two scrolls and three flasks. Inscribed on the scrolls are pictures of cows in varying stages of health. The flasks are marked W, U, and H. The flask marked W contains pond water, while the one marked U holds cow’s urine. The third flask, marked H, holds a potion of healing which cures 1-8 points of damage.
Behind the table in the southwest corner is a grotesque candelabrum sitting on the floor and the red light comes from here. The candelabrum is made from the skull of a wild boar attached to a metal rod. Attached to each tusk is a flask of red liquid with a lit wick floating in the fluid. Directly in front of the candelabrum is a pressure plate set in the floor. When the pressure plate is stepped on one of the flasks will crash to the floor and burst into a cloud of smoke to fill the room.
This smoke is a hallucinatory gas and all characters must save vs. Poison at -2 or be affected by the gas. Those who save will be set to coughing and gasping for two rounds and will be unable to do anything. Those who are affected by the gas see an efreeti step out of the smoke and attack them with a flaming weapon. The efreeti is really the player character who set off the trap and he will see the faces of his comrades distort as they attack him. There will be a roaring in everyone's ears and they will be unable to hear for six rounds.
The hullucination will end when either the character who triggered the trap is dead or when all of the other characters affected by the gas are rendered dead or uncon- scious.
The alchemist's supplies are worth 2,000 gp to another alchemist. Two baskets of dried beef and rootssit on the top of the cab- inet. There is also a cask of water. Hidden in the basket or beef are two flasks and a small wooden box. The flasks contain potions of giant strength and levitation. The box con- tains five pellets of a black, earthy sub- stance. These are flash pellets, and when thrown to the ground burst into a blinding flash of light. All those within 20 feet look- ing in the direction of the caster will be blinded for two rounds.
14. The Chasm
Here a natural passage is formed out of the rock, rough and winding. The walls are slick with condensation and the air is warm, The passage slopes downward
and ends on a ledge 30 feet above the floor of a large cavern, covered with stalagmites. Across the chasm, 30 feet away, is another ledge with an opening leading out of the cavern. Between the two ledges are a series of rocky pinnacles rising up almost level with the ledges:
The top of each pinnacle is fairly flat and large enough for one person to stand on. There are five pinnacles between the two ledges. The domed ceiling of the cavern rises 20 feet overhead. A hissing comes from below and the room immediately fills with steam.
The steam obscures even infravision, The party must cross the chasm in some manner even though they are unable to see. The steam will continue to fill the chamber for five turns and then will clear for one turn, If the party waits for the steam to clear, some- one will undoubtedly be caught crossing when the steam returns.
The edges of both ledges are weak and crumbling, and cannot be climbed either up or down. Anyone falling into the chasm will suffer 3-18 points of damage and will be impaled by 0-2 stalagmites, causing 1-6 points of damage each. The only non- magical way across the room is to use the pinnacles as stepping stones.
Naturally the stones are slippery from the steam in the air. For any person to leap from stone to stone, he must roll equal to or less than his Dexterity on 1d20 for each jump (six leaps in all). Of course, he must first determine where each stone is, by feel or some other method. If the party strings a rope across the fissure, add *2 to the Dex- terity roll and only roll once for each char- acter crossing. If the party returns to room 12 and gets the 4-foot boards, they discover that the boards just reach from pinnacle to pinnacle. Using the lumber adds *3 to the Dexterity roll and characters need only roll once, These two bonuses are cumulative.
15. Cheese Curing Room
This small, natural chamber contains several open half casks and tuns on
wooden platforms, The air is warm and damp.
This room is the cheese curing room for the fort. A large bolt of cheese cloth is lying on one of the wooden tables. In one of the tuns is a small amount of cheese curd and a growth of yellow fungi, not yellow mold.
The cheese cloth is enough to protect up to two characters from the bees in room 16.
16. Beehives
The door of this room is stuck, but will open with normal door opening rolls. Above each door is hung a wooden bucket, suspended by a rope and pulley attached to a stay beside the door, The buckets are full of sugary syrup and the room is full of bees. The bees feed on the sugary syrup in the buckets and will be swarming over it. When a door is forced open it will catch the bot- tom of the bucket and tip it over, spilling its contents over the doorway. If the door is opened gently, the rope may be pulled down to raise the bucket and allow access to the room. Because the trigger is the door itself, there is no trap to detect.
There are two enormous, conical, clay hives in the west end of the room. The bees attack anyone disturbing their feeding and sting them, causing 0-2 points of damage per round. They sting anyone drenched in syrup for double damage. Once a character leaves the room he or she will be stung for half damage for one round, and then the stinging will stop. There is no physical defense against the bees and they automati- cally hit. A character wearing a suit made of cheesecloth may be protected from the bees at the DM's discretion. Burning hands will kill all insects in its area of effect, and a sleep, stinking cloud, or pyrotechnics spell will immobilize all bees in area of effect. Steam will kill the bees on the characters if they run back into the steam-filled cavern.
17. Beekeeper's Storage
The room is a natural cave with a dirt floor. This room contains several goblin- sized suits of what appears to be chees- cloth. There is also a 4-foot-tall tun and
two casks. In one corner on a small table isa long metal rod with a spatulate hook on one end, and several clay crockery pots.
This is the beekeeper's storeroom. The cheesecloth suits are worn when working with the bees. The tun contains water and the casks contain a coarse brown sugar to make the sugar syrup for the bees. The metal rod and pots are used for gathering the bees honey.
18a. The Corridor
Here is a natural corridor 15 feet high and 15 feet wide, with openings at each
end. The corridor is approximately 80 feet long, and the walls and floor appear to have been worked smooth.
A 15-foot-square net is suspended in the shadows near the ceiling, approximately at the midpoint of the corridor. A guard hid- den at 18b controls the net. If the party approaches from the east, he will drop the net upon them and blow an alarm horn. If the party is coming from 18c, he will drop the net and join the pursuit (if the party is retreating) or try to escape (if his comrades are defeated).
Those under the net must make a saving throw vs. Paralyzation to avoid being caught. Trapped party members will be unable to attack and will have no Dexterity bonuses to AC. Opponents will be at +4 to hit. Those inside the net can try to free themselves with edged weapons. A success- ful hit on AC 9 will cut one strand of the net. A dagger can be used to cut two strands per round, Four strands must be cut to free a character.
18b. The Guard Outpost
The guard who works the net is stationed in this niche. The niche is concealed by a canvas screen painted to look like the sur- rounding stone. The screen has spyholes cut in it. Those searching the area with infravis- ion in the dark will see an apparent opening in the corridor here. Those without infravis- ion have to make a successful roll to locate secret doors in order to find the outpost.
18c. Elite Goblin Barracks
If the goblins here have any warning of the party's presence, they attack before the party reaches the barracks. There are nine goblins commanded by a leader armed with a halberd * 1. The goblins have nine worgs that they use as mounts and guards.
If the goblins are warned of intruders from the east, they mount their worgs and charge down the corridor on the round fol- lowing the net dropping. They charge in three ranks of three.
In a charge, lances do 2-12 points of dam- age, and are at +2 to hit (+4 for people caught in the net). As the first rank clears the party, a second rank will charge while the first rank dismounts and attacks from the rear. The third rank is used as a reserve,
All attacks are co-ordinated by the goblin leader, who. will avoid combat until the party is surrounded, The worgs will attack any characters not caught in the net, while the goblins will concentrate on attacking those in the net (+4 to hit and the characters are not allowed Dexterity adjustments to their AC.)
If attacked from the north, the goblins send the worgs to attack first, then join in the battle when the party is weakened.
Goblins (9): AC 4; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 13, 13, 12, 12, 11, 11, 10, 9, 9; /AT 1; D lance 1-6 or 2-12 charging, morning star 2-8
Goblin leader: AC 4; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 14; #AT 1: D 2-11
Worgs (9): AC 6; MV 18”; HD 4 +4; hp 27, 25, 22, 20, 20, 19, 19, 19, 16; #AT 1;
D 2-8
When the party reaches the barracks, read the following description:
The room is a spacious natural chamber, approximately 70 feet in diameter and 25 feet high. Inside are tables, chairs, and sleeping mats. Boxes of food, of suspi-
cious origin, are scattered around the room, as are barrels of water, Weapons, bows, and quivers of arrows are hanging on the walls,
If the weapons are examined, the party will find a black, rune-encrusted arrow in one of the quivers. It is an arrow of bow breaking and will break any normal bow it is used in; magical bows get a saving throw of 10% per magical plus. In a thorough search of the room the party will also find 130 gp and an agate worth 10 gp. On the leader's body there is a ring with two keys that open the portcullis to the kennels. If the bodies of the goblins are searched, the party will find a pouch of foul-smelling herbs on each corpse, These pouches are used to warn the two watchworgs at 21 that the bearers are friendly.
19. Worg Kennel
The entrance to this natural tunnel is barred by a locked portcullis. From
beyond comes a foul odor and the party hears a bestial growling.
The portcullis is locked by a chain and large padlock. The leader of the goblin guards in rooms 18c has the keys. This port- cullis is raised by a rope and pulley, and the end of the rope is wrapped around two
spikes driven into the wall on the left side.
Beyond the portcullis is a natural cavern with several 3-foot-tall niches cut in the wall at floor level. There are wolf droppings and hair about the floor, as well as several bare, dried bones. This is the worg kennel where the various worgs and their mates are kept. At present there are only four female worgs and seven cubs, who will not fight, in the kennels. If intruders are carrying the scent bags from 18c, they will be accepted as friends. Otherwise, the females attack and fight to the death to protect their cubs. There is nothing of value in the chamber, but there are several tooth-worn strips of leather that were once belts, One strip still has a dirt-encrusted brass buckle attached.
There is another passage out of the cavern on the opposite side. This, too, is barred by a locked portcullis, símilar in detail to the other. The northern passage is used to reach the tunnel exit from the dungeon.
Female worgs (4); AC 7; MV 18"; HD2 *2; hp 14, 10, 10, 9; #AT 1; D 2-5
20. Icar's Entranceway
In the center of the ceiling of this small room is a shaft opening. An iron ladder
leads from the floor of the room up into the shaft and is bolted to the shaft wall.
This ladder leads up 40 feet to Icar's pri- vate quarters in the fort. Across the top of the shaft is a trapdoor which cannot be opened from below, as it is bolted shut above. Only Icar uses this entrance to the dungeon and has taken steps to insure that it will not be used by others. The top two rungs have had their far edge sharpened razor keen and smeared with a sleeping drug. Those who grab the rungs barehanded cut their hands. The victim must then save vs, Poison at -2 or fall asleep in two rounds and plummet down the shaft, knocking anyone else below off the ladder. Those who fall take 1-6 points of damage for every 10 feet fallen.
21. Watchworg Post
As the party approaches the intersection of the corridor there is suddenly a fear-
some growl and two enormous wolf shapes rise from the shadows, one to either side, and move forward.
These two worgs are chained to the back walls of their alcoves so that they cannot
enter the hallway. If the characters have picked up the scent bags from the dead gob- lins in room 18 the worgs sniff at the intruders and then sit back on their haunches and watch. If the characters are not carrying the scent pouches the two worgs set up a mighty howling that will alert Markessa and her guards in room 22 that intruders are here.
There is a secret door at the back of the eastern alcove. This door is opened by lift- ing up on the chain anchor ring in the wall and pulling out. On the other side the secret door is opened by a latch which is pulled up. This passage is often used by Icar, com- mander of the fort troops, and the worgs are friendly with him because he often tosses them scraps of meat. If the character coming through the secret door is not Icar, the worg in this alcove will attack, leaping for the intruder's throat.
Worgs (2): AC 6; MV 18"; HD 4+4; hp 27, 20; #AT 1; D 2-8
22. Markessa's Laboratory
These doors open onto a room of great size, over 60 feet long and 40 feet wide, dimly lit by the party's torches. The room has a 40-foot-high, vaulted ceiling with a balcony circling three sides on the south end of the room. There are several goblins up on the balcony and more on the main floor just in front of the door.
This chamber appears to be a large workroom for an alchemist or a physi- cian as there are many beakers, flasks, and retorts on the various tables, and bookshelves and benches about the room. To either side of the south doors is a stuffed owl on a pedestal. In the far end of the room are several cabinets and a work bench around which move more goblins. However, what catches your attention are the two tables in the center of the room, from one of which rises a strange caricature of a man—long and thin, with a horribly deformed mouth and a long clawed arm. It emits a brutal croaking sound and the goblin sitting next to it sees the party, draws its sword, and cries a warning.
Markessa is in the north end of this room behind a work bench. She is a small female elf with ivory white skin, golden hair, and an evil slant to her amber eyes. Markessa has also been anticipating an attack and has spent her time puttering back here to stay out of the melee. She is a 5th level magic-
user and a Sth level fighter.
The creature on the table was once a human slave, but is now a crazed experi- ment of Markessa. Markessa is chaotic evil and an agent of the slave lords, in charge of running this branch of the slaver operation. Markessa is also performing private experi- ments on some of the captured slaves in order to create the perfect slave. This is her laboratory where she performs surgical operations designed to reach that end. Unfortunately, most of her experiments have gone awry, for she operates without anesthesia and most of her subjects are driven insane by the pain.
The guards have been expecting an attack and have been standing waiting for a warn- ing. If the party surprises the goblins, the guards grab their arrows and prepare to fire while others run around the balcony to reach the lever above the south door.
If Markessa is surprised she will duck behind the work bench and cast the protec- tion from good spell on herself. This spell will raise her AC to -1 and give her a +2 adjustment on all saves. Then she will cast shocking grasp on herself in the eventuality that she will actually need to grapple with someone. This spell will go off the first time she strikes someone with her hand. If Markessa is not surprised, and has been warned by the watchworgs, she will already have cast these spells and be awaiting the confrontation.
If the watchworgs have had a chance to how! their warning, the goblins will already have reached their positions and Markessa will have cast her spells on herself.
Markessa will attempt to avoid melee for as long as possible, throwing her darts and looking for a chance to cast her lightning bolt, She will use her magic missile upon any spell caster who attempts to cast a spell at her. She will wait to cast the scare until someone moves to attack her. If things are going badly for her she will either cast her darkness spell and flee or pick up a flask from a shelf and throw it down to smash on the floor. The contents of the flask form a blue cloud of smoke, 10 feet in radius, that cannot be seen through. Anyone caught in the smoke will find that it stings his eyes and blinds him for one round after he leaves the cloud. The cloud will last for six rounds.
To aid in running this battle, a map of the room has been included, showing the start- ing locations of the monsters.
If the party entered the room through the southern door, two goblins on the balcony above the door topple a large tun of brine used to store various body parts over onto
81
the party, extinguishing all of their torches and lanterns. If characters do not have infravision, they must fight in the dark at -4 until another light source is provided. The rest of the goblins on the balcony fire twice with their short bows, while those on the floor draw their weapons.
There are cages set into the wall to either side of the door, each containing an owlbear. On the second round of combat, the goblins above the door pull a lever open- ing the cage doors and the owlbears rush out, knocking aside the stuffed owl pedes- tals and attacking with surprise on a roll of 1-5 on 1d6. The goblin archers continue to fire twice, while the sword wielders hack at those characters not engaged by the owlbears.
There are 13 elite goblin guards here; six are on the main floor and seven are on the balcony. If, on the second round of combat, the party is using a light spell to see, Markessa will cast her darkness to negate the light.
The door to the west opens into the room. If the party enters the lab from the west the door will conceal Markessa long enough for her to hide behind the work bench. The gob- lin guards spot the party and shout "Intruders!;" and Markessa hurls her flask to blind the party. The battle will then proceed as described,
The goblins continue to fire for one more round, exhausting their arrow supply. Those on the balcony then swing down to the floor on ropes and join their brothers in melee with short swords. The goblins have been directed to fire at and attack those characters who start to talk in battle, these presumably being the leaders or spell cast- ers. The owlbears always attack the closest target or the most powerful fighters. Neither the goblins nor the owlbears will surrender.
This room has many shelves and cabinets of the various types of equipment used by Markessa. There are canisters, decanters, and flasks of various herbs and compounds; there are tables full of glassware and the dif- ferent knives, needles, and thread she uses. None of these items should be of particular value to a party of adventurers, but on the open market to an alchemist they have a total value of 5,000 gp.
Items the party might be interested in are the flask of smoke (to be thrown by Markessa) and a quart of acid in a thick glass decanter. Many of the compounds are poisonous but only when swallowed in large quantities. There are also a variety of casks and tubs of brine with body parts from various creatures floating in them. In a
locked drawer behind her workbench is a pair of artificial claws made of adamantite worth 2,000 gp, wrapped in linen.
The goblins are each carrying 1-6 gp. Markessa is wearing a set of electrum brac- ers worth 560 gp, and a neckguard of elec- trum engraved with the image of a crested hawk worth 1,400 gp. Shoved behind some books and papers on the top of one cabinet is a roll of parchment. There are three sheets of parchment. The first one lists various names, being the names of the slave mer- chants Markessa normally: does business with. The second sheet is a tally of the slaves most recently received divided by general description and where they are from. The last isa crude map of the caravan routes and may be useful when the characters prepare for chapter 7.
Markessa (5th level MU, 5th level fighter): AC 2(0); MV 12”; hp 35; #AT 2 with sword or 3 with darts; D sword 2-7 or dart 1-3; $ 14, 1 16, W 12, D 18, Con 17, Cha 14
Spells: magic missile, protection from good, shocking grasp, darkness 15', scare, lightning bolt Markessa wears studded leather armor
* 1 with protection from normal missiles,
which gives her immunity to all non-
magical missiles and adjusts damage caused by magical missiles by -1 per die of damage.
Her magical armor and Dexterity adjust-
ment give her an AC of 1. She carries a short
sword of speed *1 which allows her to attack twice per round, gaining automatic initiative on the first attack and normal ini- tiative on the second attack. Markessa is also armed with 12 darts; she can throw three per round, with a Dexterity bonus of *3 to hit.
Elite goblin guards (13): AC 5; MV 6”; HD 1+1; hp 8 each; #AT 1 or 2 with bow; D 1-6
Owlbears: AC 5; МУ 12"; HD 5+2; hp 27, 25; #AT 3; D 1-6/1-6/2-12, plus 2-16 hug if either paw hits with a score of 18 or
better
25. Mess Hall
This room is a large dining room. There are two long tables with rows of benches
set on either side of each. Across the room is another door. The room appears empty.
This room is the mess hall for all of the goblin troops guarding the dungeon. The
tables are stained and dried remains of food cover their tops. The tables and benches are worn and beat up. There is nothing of value here.
24. Kitchen
This room is a kitchen with several tables and a chopping block in the room. On the south side of the room is a cooking fireplace and two fresh carcasses are hung on hooks to the left of it. The room
is occupied by a human cook and two goblin assistants working over a huge pot of stew. The cook is incredibly ugly and has a horrid snaggle-toothed smirk on his face.
When the party enters the kitchen, the cook will berate the characters for showing up early for their meal. His assistants then dump some sour stew in bowls and try to serve the party the stew and moldy bread. If the party eats, have each roll his constitu- tion or less on 1d20; if a character fails he becomes ill for two turns. The cook is an old army veteran and is chaotic neutral. He is touchy about criticism, and will throw a cleaver (treat as a hand axe) at anyone who protests the quality of the food (-4 to hit). If seriously threatened, he and his goblin assistants run away, screaming that the mer- cenaries are rioting again, and "may Maglu- biyet fry their livers."
Cook (3d level fighter): AC 9; MV 12"; hp 18; #AT 1; D by weapon; $13, 19, W 7, D 15, Con 12, Cha 4
Goblin assistants (2); AC 10; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 4: #AT 1; D by weapon
25. Specialists' Quarters
This area houses the various specialists Markessa employs to help run this opera- tion, Two goblins stand guard outside the main door to this area. They are armed with military picks. One goblin carries a horn at his belt for sounding the alarm if there is trouble or they hear an alarm from else- where.
Goblins (2): AC 6; HD 1; hp 5, 4; #AT 1; D by weapon
25a. Engineer's Quarters
The door to this room is locked and no sound is heard from beyond.
As the characters enter this room, they
82
hear the sound of a small bell. A single human in padded armor is lying on the bed. When the party enters, he grabs a cocked crossbow by the bed and aims it at the party, He demands to know their business.
This is Carlstar Wiorfether, an engineer / sapper/miner hired to keep the fort in good condition and build the defenses needed. He is very afraid of the werewolves in the fort, and his nerves are on edge. If made a good offer of money or some other deal (DM's decision), he is 40% likely to lead the party to an exit from the fort. If the party gets aggressive, he will fire the crossbow and scream for help. He will then fight with his military pick.
The room contains a desk, chair, stool, bookshelf, and a footlocker (shoved under his bed). The desk is littered with papers, pens, and books. In the desk are instru- ments for drafting, a level, and an engineer's plumb. On the shelves are reference books and plans for a siege tower and the counter- weight system for a sliding secret door.
Beside the bed on the stool he has a silver dagger worth 25 gp and 20 silver-headed crossbow bolts worth 1 gp apiece. The footlocker holds clothing and a small coffer. In the coffer, the engineer has 220 gp and a potion of curing lycanthropy. This potion contains belladonna and has a 546 chance of poisoning anyone who drinks it. It has а 4596 chance of curing lycanthropy if drunk within an hour of contracting the disease.
Carlstar Wiorfether (3d level fighter): AC 8; hp 15; #AT 1; D by weapon 25b. Alchemist's Quarters
When you enter this room, you see a human seated on a wooden stool bend- ing over a large wooden table. The stran-
ger appears to be pouring fluid from one flask into another. The stranger turns around to look at you.
The human is the alchemist Fyndax who has been hired to assist Markessa. He is armed with a dagger, but he will not fight unless there is no other choice.
Along the north wall is a bed draped with a satin comforter and ornamented with silk cushions. Along the east wall are several bookshelves, virtually obscuring the wall. Some of these volumes are well worn, while others have a layer of dust and a few cob- webs covering them. On the south wall are shelves containing a wide and varied assort- ment of flasks, tubes, decanters, jars, cans,
and small boxes. While some of these con- tainers are empty, others are filled with strange herbs or fine powders.
lf the party enters through the secret door, the first thing they notice is a small but exquisite coffer that appears to be covered entirely with emeralds. This coffer rests on the floor about 2 feet from the secret door. The coffer is worthless, but has been trapped. Anyone who touches it will become stuck to it and will be unable to free himself from it or to move the coffer else- where. If a dispel magic spell is cast on the party member stuck to the coffer or if this member is wearing a ring of free action he or she can pull free.
Fyndax: AC 10; HD 0; hp 3; #AT 1; D 1-4
25c. Bugbear Quarters
This room contains four beds plus a table and several stools. There are two bug- bears in this room. One is lounging on
his bed while the other is sitting on the foot of the bed sharpening a bastard sword. The bugbears look up as the door
opens,
These two bugbears are squad leaders for two squads of goblin guards. The bugbears attack intruders on sight while yelling to raise the alarm. Both have bastard swords and the two are carrying a total of 32 gp, 19 sp, and 71 cp. This room is also the quarters of the bugbears in the torture room, area 12.
Bugbears (2): AC 5; MV 9"; HD3 *1; hp15 each; #AT 1; D 2-8
25d. Scribe's Quarters
This bedroom houses one human, seated
at a small table and writing on a piece оё parchment.
This is Kyvin Trist, a lawful evil scribe hired to keep the accounts of the slavers' operation. When the party enters he will tell them that if they've come to pick up their bonuses, they must go across the hall to 25c (hoping that they will be cut to bits by the bugbears). He will then give the party mem- bers receipts for their bonuses. If deception doesn't work, he will topple the table on the party, stunning those in front of it for one round, cry out for help, and fight, using a short sword.
This room has only a simple bed and a scroll rack. Papers and ink are on top of the table. These scrolls list the financial records
of this operation, giving names of sources of slaves and showing how widespread the slave ring is. There is also a detailing by name of the various posts on the slave route to the slave lords, but there is no map. Stuffed in one of the scrolls in the rack is a key chain with a silver pipe whistle worth 100 gp.
Kyvin Trist: AC 10; Lvl 0; hp 2; ҒАТ 1; D 1-6
25e. Werewolf Quarters
This room appears to be quarters for three, There are beds, stools, and a short
table. The room does not appear to be well kept and there are rolls of dust and hair on the floor.
This room is the quarters for three were- wolves when in human form. These were- wolves use the fort as their base from which they can terrorize the countryside. They have been hired to train the worgs to guard the dungeon. The werewolves have an agreement with Markessa to leave the humanoids alone.
A close examination of the floor will reveal that the hair is wolf hair, If the were- wolves have been encountered in the corri- dors and killed, the room will remain empty. If they have not been encountered, they enter the room through the secret door in the northern wall two rounds after the party enters the room. The secret door opens by pushing on one side. They will be in human form and, being surprised, swiftly ‘surrender’ and offer any information they can invent on the spot. They attempt to lead the party down the secret passage to Black- thorn's room, saying that this is the treasure room. At the first opportunity they shift form to wolves and attack the party, with surprise if possible. They have no weapons or armor, and they entrust their treasure to Blackthorn in room 25f.
The werewolves are in cahoots with Blackthorn and act as his agents to weed out troublemakers in the fort. When Blackthorn makes his move against Markessa they will strike to eliminate Icar.
Werewolves (3): АС 5; MV 15"; HD 4+3; hp 21 each; #AT 1; D 2-8; can only be hit by silver or magical weapons
25f. Blackthorn’s Quarters
This room appears to be both an office and the quarters of an officer. Seated at a
desk in the southeast corner of the room is a very tall, gaunt, skeleton of a man with ashen skin, sunken eyes, and bald-
ing head. He is rubbing his long bony hands together nervously and counting stacks of coins on his desk. He looks up surprisedly.
This is Blackthorn, Markessa's captain of the guard and treasurer. He is 7 feet tall and has hunched shoulders. He seems barely to fit into his wrinkled clothes and armor. Upon sighting the party he will invite them in, in a hollow voice, and ask them their business.
This rather cordial, ghastly looking man is actually an ogre mage polymorphed into a human form. Blackthorn is lawful evil and was sent by the slave lords to keep an eye on Markessa and this operation. Personally he is appalled by her experiments and doubts her abilities to run such a large operation, but the business has remained profitable and Blackthorn cannot see any excuse for removing Markessa. However, he does not like her and plots to eliminate her when the slightest provocation presents itself. The werewolves in room 25e have joined forces with Blackthorn and they have made any- one who contests his decisions quietly dis- appear.
Only Markessa knows that Blackthorn is an ogre mage and agrees that it is best this remain a secret to preserve her authority.
If Blackthorn thinks he can persuade the party to do his dirty work and eliminate Markessa, he will tell the party that he is unhappy with her leadership and would be willing to change sides, if the price were right. If they agree, he will lead them to her quarters and disappear once they confront Markessa, leaving them to kill her while he collects help to capture the party once they have done the deed. If the party becomes threatening, he will laugh at them, turn invisible, and attack the next round. If the werewolves brought the party to this room they will then change form and attack also.
This room has a desk and chair, a ward- robe, two stools, a bed, a bookshelf, and a sandbox with hot coals in it. In the north- western corner of the room is a potted plant hanging from a chain. Raising the potted plant will open the secret door in the north wall. The plant is yellow and green and has flowers that look like tufts of different color hair. This plant is a present from Markessa, a result of another experiment. If the broad
leaves are raised three ears and a mouth will be discovered on its stalk. Markessa does not trust Blackthorn's motives and sent him this plant to listen in on his conversations. At a command word from her it will relate to her anything of interest it might have overheard. Markessa checks once a day.
There are 300 gp on the desk along with various ledgers recording the number of coins in the treasury. There is also a giant glaive belonging to Blackthorn.
Blackthorn (ogre mage): AC 4; MV 97/15”; HD 5+4; hp 32; AAT 1; D 1-12 Blackthorn has the following abilities he can use at will: fly at 15" for up to 12 turns; turn invisible; cause darkness 1"; poly- morph self to humanoid forms; and regener- ate 1 hit point per round. Once per day he can also charm person, assume gaseous form, and cast a cone of cold 6" long and 2" wide at its end, for 8d8 points of damage.
25g. Treasure Room
The corridor ends in a blank wall. In the center of the wall is a 1 foot x 1 foot square hole. This shaft runs back into the wall and seems to end in a chamber. On
the bottom of this shaft are two metal bars running parallel to each other, 6 inches apart, back into the shaft. A thin braided rope of metal dangles from its mouth, and runs back into the shaft.
The chamber at the end of the shaft is the treasury room for the goblin army. The shaft is too small for any humanoid crea- ture, including a halfling, to crawl through. In the treasure room is a 5-foot-long table set next to the shaft opening. The metal tracks continue out of the shaft and onto the table. Sitting on the table are three metal boxes, 1 foot long, 1 foot wide, and 6 inches tall. The boxes are connected together by metal rope and each rests on a set of metal wheels fitted onto the track. The metal rope is attached to the front of the first box. A second coil is attached to the back of the last box and lies on the floor.
Six large chests, two metal coffers, and a small, locked mahogany box are stacked in the room, A small cot lies folded in one cor- ner and near the cot is a barrel of iron rations and a skin of wine. To deposit or withdraw treasure, Blackthorn assumes gaseous form and passes down the shaft. Once inside the room, he changes back to normal form and loads the treasure needed into the metal carts. Markessa can then pull thecarts out by pulling on the rope or Black-
thorn could pull back in the carts with trea- sure being deposited, using the other rope. Blackthorn will then wait a day, and assume gaseous form again and exit through the shaft.
The treasure in this room consists of the following:
Chest #1: 6,000 cp; unlocked, no trap.
Chest #2: 8,000 gp; locked; If the latch is not held closed until the lid is raised, three darts fire from the front of the chest causing 1-3 points of damage, plus save vs. Poison or die.
Chest #3: 7,000 ep; locked, no trap.
Chest £4: 9,000 sp; unlocked, no trap.
Chest #5: 3,000 pp; unlocked; If the weight is taken off the bottom of the box without setting a safety catch in front, poi- son gas will fill the alcove and remain for 12 turns.
Chest #6: Potion of oil of etherealness, clerical scroll of atonement, 5,000 gp, eight sapphires worth 250 gp each, one ruby worth 500 gp. The stones are uncut, and their value can be quadrupled by a skillful jeweler. The wealth in this chest belongs to Icar, the fort commander. The chest is locked and trapped with a poisoned needle (save vs. Poison at -3 or die). The lock itself is complex, reducing a thief's chance to open it by 15%.
Coffer #1: one ruby worth 2,000 gp, 10 tourmalines worth 100 gp each, six aquama- rines worth 400 gp each, an illusionist's scroll of continual darkness, paralyzation, shadow door, and veil. Locked with three locks which must be opened in the proper sequence (2-1-3) or the coffer will not open.
Coffer #2: Potion of longevity, potion of white dragon control, philter of love, ring of water walking. Wizard locked by Markessa and only she, magical means, or a 9th level or higher magic-user can open it.
Wooden case: This mahogany wooden case is locked. Inside is a crystal display jar. The jar is sealed to a pewter stand and inside it floats a coinlike amulet suspended in an amber fluid. The amber fluid is a small ochre jelly which has been altered. It cannot live long in open air and will die in six rounds unless it comes in contact with a liv- ing being. Then it will cling to the flesh doing 1-4 points of damage per round until it is destroyed by fire. The victim will take full damage from any fire used as well. The amulet has a power word—pain on it.
All creatures within 20 feet of the user must save vs. Rods when the word is intoned, or else suffer wracking pains for 2- 8 rounds, causing them to fight at -4 to hit, and making their AC one class worse. The
84
power word can only be used once per day and the amulet must be held in the hand for the power word to work.
26. Goblin Barracks
This section is all goblin barracks. Those goblins currently at home in their barracks respond to any sounded alarm by donning their armor and grabbing their weapons while a runner goes to report to the bugbear squad leaders. They will be ready to respond to the alarm in 12 rounds and fol- low the direction of their leaders as the DM sees fit.
26a. Snarlers' Barracks
The door to this room has a dog's skull tacked to it. This is the Snarlers squad bar- racks room. The door is locked from the inside. The Snarlers have just gotten off duty and most are sleeping without their armor. There are 12 goblins here. Two are playing mumbledy-peg with a knife and the hand of a third goblin who has fallen asleep at a table. If the party alerts this room by making too much noise, the goblins will be awake with their weapons drawn and four slingers will be kneeling behind over-turned beds when the party enters. The goblins have a total of 41 cp, 9 sp, and 6 gp.
Goblins (12): AC 10; MV 12*; HD 1; hp4 each: #АТ 1; D 1-6
26b. Bone-crackers' Barracks
This room is barracks for the Bone- crackers squad. It is empty at present as they are on duty.
26c. Ear-biters' Barracks
A dried а555 ear with a chunk torn out of it is tacked to this door. There is shouting and cursing coming from this room. The 12 goblins in this room are crowded around the center of the room watching a two-foot- long lizard tied to a table leg squirm in pain, For several darts protrude from its back and one foot has been cut off. These horrible creatures are betting on how long it will take for the lizard to die. One goblin is teasing two starving rats in a cage and eyeing a slave who is bound and gagged and lying on one of the beds. There are 67 cp, 17 sp, and 13 gp on the floor in front of the goblins.
Goblins (12): AC 6; MV 6^; HD 1; hp 4 each; #AT 1; D 1-6
27. Latrines
Here are a set of 12 latrines. The place is dirty, but is periodically cleaned by a goblin detail.
28. Slave Pens
This room is divided into cells of metal bars each roofed off with crossed bars. There are slaves in each cell wearing only simple cotton garb. Most cells only
appear to hold two to eight slaves each. Rising above the cells on the east wall is an overseers platform cut out of the stone wall.
When the party enters this room there is a 25% chance that they will be sighted by the overseers and several will move to investi- gate the visitors.
This area is used for holding and display- ing slaves. Newly acquired slaves are brought in and fed nourishing food and given plenty of water to restore their health and appearance after the long journey from their homeland. They are then sold to vari- ous slave merchants who transport the slaves to different markets and sell them.
28a & b. Safe Cells
These cells are 20 feet square and are
filled with slaves. The slaves appear list- less and apathetic.
These cells hold slaves who have already been purchased by slave merchants. They have regained their healthy appearance and have spent 24 hours in the cloaker's room on the fort level to make them docile and easy to manage on the trip to the market. The slaves remain mind-numb for one week.
a. This cell contains eight women, seven men, three male elves, and two dwarves who have had their beards shaved off.
b. This cell holds six women, 10 men, two halfling males, one halfling female, and a half-orc. The halfling female is deaf and was unaffected by the cloaker but is playing dumb. She witnessed the cavelings stealing a girl and will inform the adventurers if they find a way to communicate with her.
28c. Caveling Temple
This cell is similar to the other two next
to it, but there are no slaves in it. Instead in the center of the floor a white circle
has been drawn and in the center of the circle is a stone, 5 feet tall, vaguely resembling a woman standing, facing the back wall with her left arm raised. The
back wall has a hole torn in it, and beyond this opening is darkness. Beside the hole is a large, muddy pile of rags.
This is the cell where Markessa places her unsuccessful experiments. These creatures have widened a crack in the northern wall that leads into a series of caves and Markessa has permitted them to live there as the cell is not suitable for holding market- able slaves. She calls her creations "cavel- ings" and these creatures in their madness call Markessa a god and have fashioned by hand a crude idol of her. Only the face of this statue vaguely resembles her, but she has been given a set of fangs, a serpent for a tongue, and worms for eyes.
The pile of rags beside the cave entrance is a crippled caveling known as Mouth, because only he remembers the tongue of the outside world. Mouth has no legs, but his arms are 4 feet long and he has two opposable thumbs on each hand and can walk swiftly on his hands. Mouth will stir himself if characters approach him and ask in a gravel voice, "Be ye the thrice curst mes- sengers? Woe to the world now!" He will then break into a lament. Mouth is slow- witted and will not offer any real informa- tion, but will spit on each character as he or she enters the caves. Mouth is the warning system for the cavelings that intruders are about. He sounds the warning with a loud hooting.
The cavelings have managed to loosen one of the bars to cell 28b and can slide it aside to enter the safe cell. Periodically, they will sneak out of their caves and steal one of the slaves to carry back into the cave to eat.
Mouth: AC 9; MV 9"; HD 1; hp 5; AAT nil The Caves
Here is a series of caves and winding tun- nels. They are pitch black and the air is
cool and damp.
There is no light throughout these caves and characters without infravision or a light source will fight at -4 to hit. The caves and tunnels meander and form a labyrinth. There are stone ledges, stalagmites forming pillars, and trickles of mineral water form- ing slick patches. These caves are inhabited
85
by the cavelings and other cave-dwelling creatures as well. The DM should check once every two turns of travel for an encounter (1 on 1d10).
Caves Wandering Encounters (roll 1412)
1 Caveling (DM's creation) 2 Become lost/reach a dead end 3 Cave beetle (1; AC 5; МУ 12"; HD2 *2; #AT 1; D 1-6 4 Pit fall (1d4 points of damage if not detected) 5 Dripping water (drinkable on a roll of 1- 4 on 146) 6 Giant rats (2-5; AC 7; MV 12"; HD 1/2; FAT 1; D 1-3 7 Giant centipedes (1-4; AC 9; MV 15”; HD 1/4; #AT 1; D poison 8 Sound is heard (DM's creation—sound may lead the party to an encounter or to a trap) 9 Fungus (edible on a roll of 1-2 on 1d6) 10 Stone chips (might be used as tools or weapons) 11 Cave spider (1-2; AC 8; MV 6"/15"; HD 1*1; #AT 1; D1plus Poison, save at +2 12 Cave lizard (1; АС 5; MV 15”; HD 3+1; #AT 1; D 1-8
The cavelings have formed their own society within these caverns and live in dif- ferent caves, one for each tribe. Most cavel- ings are insane and any children they have had, they have raised insane. Since most of the cavelings come from lawful races, they have reorganized themselves as one people where it is normal to be insane.
Each caveling tribe serves a purpose in the community. There is the tribe of Leaders, who help decide how new arrivals should be treated and direct the activities of the oth- ers. There is the tribe of Warriors who prac- tice mock combats and are supposed to defend the cavelings from slavers and go on raids to the safe cell (28b). The Workers build things and gather fungus, water and small insects. The Hunters hunt cave beet- les, spiders, and the feared cave lizard. And the Thinkers are teachers and priests and help doctor wounded cavelings and make cavelings out of the children.
Insanity is also on a tribal basis with the affliction helping to determine which tribe a caveling will become a member of. For example: Warriors might be homicidal maniacs, while Leaders might be suffering from megalomania. The DM should select the insanities and will find details in the Dungeon Masters Guide, pages 83-84.
The bodies of the cavelings are horribly twisted and distorted as a result of Markes- sa's "improvements" and they are not recog- nizable as their original race. The DM should determine how a specific caveling has been modified. Some of the changes are useful, such as the ability to climb walls, infravision, clawed hands, and so forth, while others are only grotesque.
Communication with cavelings will be difficult, because their language consists of guttural grunts and shrieks.
When cavelings are first encountered they will be curious, but cautious. If the cavel- ings reaction is friendly they will try to amuse the newcomers with songs, dances, tricks, and by throwing gifts of fungus or smooth stones at them. These actions may appear hostile to the party, but if no hostile action is taken in return, the party will be deemed friendly and the cavelings will grab the hands of the characters and drag them to the Leaders' cave.
If the Leaders determine the characters are not the Messengers of Light they await, they welcome them as fellow cavelings and set a feast of fungus, puffballs, spider meat, dried roaches, and fermented beetle juice. The beetle juice is very intoxicating and characters imbibing must save vs. Poison or become drunk and slow-witted. Drunk characters fight at -2 to hit and damage. There will be much dancing and hooting and then the Thinkers will be sent for to make the newcomers into cavelings. To make a caveling the Thinkers attempt to surgically alter the form of the character. A character must make a system shock roll to survive the completed operation.
Typical caveling: AC 10; MV 12"; HD 1, 2 or 3; #AT 1; D rock 3-4 or stone club 3-8
1. Workers’ Cave; In this cave live 23 workers. At present only four workers are in the cave. Two have large ears and no eyes. Another has squat arms and legs, and prehensile toes and can climb walls well. The fourth caveling is known as the Rat Master and he has infravision, thin clawed hands, whiskers, and long bare tail. The Rat Master can talk to rats and command them to go out and forage for him. This has gained him much prestige with the cavel- ings. He is talking to three giant rats at present. He has a rusty dagger.
Rat master: AC 9 due to Dexterity; MV 12”; HD 1; hp 5; #АТ 1; D 1-4
Giant rats: AC 7; МУ 12"; HD 1/2; #АТ 1; D 1-3
II. Hunters' Cave: In this cave live 12 hunters. They are grunting and hooting as they attack two cave beetles they have herded back to the cave. The chief Hunter is Raker. Raker has three legs set in a tripod pattern. He also has four 2-foot-long spines on the back of both arms.
Raker: AC 8 due to Dexterity; MV 15"; HD 2; hp 9; #AT 1; D 1-4 with the spines on one arm
Ш. Thinkers’ Cave: There are nine think- ers in this cave. There is also one warrior and the caveling ruler herself. They are probing and poking a terrified girl with blonde hair. The caveling ruler suffers from the delusion that she is the living form of Markessa and is called the Inner Markessa. She hates all intruders and fears they want to take her power away. This girl looks too much like Markessa to her and she wants her destroyed as a false god. The Thinkers are examining this demand. Inner Markessa has only three fingers on each hand, long thin legs, and fangs. She is wearing a breast- plate made of stone plates. Jabber, her lover, has a mouth 6 inches wide with a froglike tongue, and is missing one hand which has been replaced by a bony, spearlike growth.
Inner Markessa: AC 6; MV 12"; HD 2; hp7; #AT 1; D 1-2 bite
Jabber: АС 10; MV 12”; HD 3; hp 18; #AT 1; D 1-6
IV. Warriors' Cave: There are five war- riors in this room, while six more are out with the workers protecting them from harm. Snatcher is the head warrior and has four arms. However, one of the extra arms is withered and useless. These warriors are making stone clubs by chipping and shaping broken stalactites.
Snatcher: AC 9 due to Dexterity; MV 9”; HD 3; hp 20; #AT 2; D 3-8 each
V. Leaders' Cave: There are four leaders all sitting around in this cave. Though all consider themselves leader, they all accept Whisper as their spokesman. Whisper has an enlarged head, a small sphincter-like mouth and tentacles with suckers instead of arms. Whisper speaks in barely audible whispers but can communicate with any creature telepathically.
If outsiders are brought before them the leaders ask a series of rambling questions through Whisper. There is a caveling legend that states that the gods will one day send Messengers of Light to destroy the evil Outer Markessa and lead the cavelings back to the “Bright Place,” the surface world. If
86
the party can somehow prove they are the messengers, it is likely that they can lead a caveling revolt against the slavers.
Whisper: AC 10; MV 12”; HD 2; #AT 2; D 1-3 each
28d-u. Slave Cells
The slaves in these cells have not yet had their spirits broken. They are afraid, but can be talked into revolt and escape. One- fourth of the slaves can fight. The rest of the slaves are either too young, too old, or haven't the inclination, skill or knowledge for fighting. The slaves are of assorted age, race and sex. Some of the slaves' personali- ties are described below and the DM may use them as models for other slaves.
Slaves: AC 10; MV 9”; LVL 0; hp 4 each; #AT 1; D by weapon or 1
d. Three women, one of whom is bald.
e. Five elves, one a pregnant woman.
f. Six men. One is pot-bellied and gray. Не is a merchant who will gladly pay a ransom of 300 pp if returned to his home in the southwest. He cares only for himself and his own well-being.
g. Eight children: three are elven, four are human, and one is a halfling. One fair- haired boy, who is looking after one of the smaller children, is the nephew of a duke in the north,
h. Six women, all human and strong workers.
i. Three halflings and a gnome who has been badly beaten.
j. Seven men. One claims to own land in a northern province and says that if he is returned he will pay each as much treasure as they can carry, The man is a bandit chieftain.
k. Two very powerful, nasty looking men.
1. Three women and four human chil- dren.
m. Five men and one male halfling. One of the men is looking to win the favor of the overseers and will call out to them about any rescue attempts.
n. Three dwarves tied back to back in the
center of the cell.
. Eight halflings, three are female.
Four men all middle-aged.
. Ten children, mostly teenaged girls.
. Six elves, two are children.
. Three men and a woman. The woman is desperate to survive and return home and is prepared to do whatever is nec- essary to reach that goal.
т-што
t. One lithe, limber-looking man is sit- ting, bound, in the center of the cell. In fact, he is a 1st level monk.
u. One man and three women; all look very barbaric.
28v. Overseers' Office
Stairs lead up to this platform. There are seven overseers. Five are hobgoblins and two are gnolls. The overseers are responsi- ble for the care and feeding of the slaves until sold.
The keys to the rows of cells are hung on three different pegs on the west wall. The overseers have been drinking wine from a cask and swapping tales. They will investi- gate any trouble on the floor. Each carries 2- 12 gp and there is a 25% chance for each that he has a gem worth 100 gp.
Hobgoblin overseers: АС 5; MV 9"; HD 1+1; hp 9,7,6,6,5; #AT 1; D 1-8 Gnoll overseers: AC 5; MV 9”; HD 2; hp 15, 12; #AT 1; D 2-8
29. Witch Doctor's Quarters
This room is filled with a blue haze and the pungent odor of incense. The walls are covered with black drapes and a bra- zier with hot coals stands in the center of the room. There is an ornate chair before
the brazier. A cot with furs thrown across it and two low tables covered with herbs and paraphernalia are all else that is in this room. The room has no occu-
pants.
This is the room of Guliyet, a female gob-
lin witch doctor and Markessa's assistant. If the witch doctor has already been encoun- tered as a wandering monster and slain, the room will remain empty. Otherwise, Guliyet will return to her quarters in three turns. Beside the ornate chair is a box of white powdered incense. The witch doctor often sits in this chair, burning incense and medi- tating. In the seat of the chair is a false com- partment, This compartment may only be opened by sitting in the chair and bending over and pressing a stud on each chair leg. Within the compartment is a velvet pouch. It holds three pieces of jade worth 60 gp each and a necklace of garnet and electrum worth 1,300 gp. The tables contain various items for scrying and fortune telling.
30. Markessa's Chambers
The entrance to this corridor is guarded by two gnolls. They are fiercely loyal to Markessa and will fight as 4-hit-dice mon- sters. If attacked they sound the alarm by striking a brass tube hanging on the north wall and then fight till help arrives.
Gnolls (2): AC 2; MV 9^; HD 2; hp 16 each; #AT 1; D 1-10 with halberd
30a. Markessa's Double's Chamber
You see a female elf with ivory skin, golden hair, and amber colored eyes. She is wearing studded leather armor and
carrying a short sword and throwing darts. She is seated at a work table writ- ing on a length of parchment.
If Markessa has escaped an encounter with the party they will believe that this elf is Markessa, since the elf looks exactly like her. Actually she is one of Markessa's more successful experiments, a double who has been surgically and magically altered to look like Markessa, then brainwashed to obey Markessa's commands. The elf is a 2d level fighter/2d level magic user. She usu- ally assists Markessa in her dealings with the slave merchants.
The experiment was not a complete suc- cess. The elf has not been completely brain- washed. A spark of rebellion still flickers. When the party confronts the elf, there is an 80% chance she will pretend to be Markessa and act against the party trying to lead them into a trap; and a 20% chance she will tell the party the story of her ordeal and beg them to help her escape.
A full length mirror stands against the western wall and a painting of Markessa hangs on the eastern wall. Behind the mirror is a secret door opened by knocking twice on the wall to the right of the door. The wall is worn at this spot. The picture on the wall has the powers of a wizard eye spell so that Markessa can view what is going on in the chamber if she is in her room. Characters may get an uneasy feeling of being watched.
The wardrobe on the south wall also con- ceals a secret door which is opened by pull- ing down a peg in the back of the wardrobe. However, this door is wizard locked and only Markessa or a magic-user of 9th or higher level may open it.
Markessa's double (2d level F/2d level MU): AC 7; MV 9"; hp 8; AT 1; D 1-6 Spells: magic missile, shield
87
31. Bodyguard's Exercise Room
This room appears to be a Fighter's prac- tice room, with weapons hung on the wall, а quintain and practice dummies of straw. There is a tall, slender, muscular elf in padded leather armor and shield
working out on the quintain. He is mak- ing lightning quick blows and then duck- ing under the swinging arm as it comes around.
This elf is another experiment of Markes- sa's. He used to be ugly and weak, but she designed him to be her personal bodyguard and lover. He still bears scars from the oper- ation on the back of his neck, He was sup- posed to be brainwashed to fall in love with Markessa, but instead he has fallen in love with her double. The bodyguard is the only one besides Icar who can distinguish between the double and Markessa. If the party is harming the double he will attack in fury, but if she tells him they are helping her to escape, there is a 50% chance that the bodyguard will help the party, The elf fights as a 6th level fighter and if he has advance warning of the party's arrival, he will don his plate mail armor and shield and will be ACO.
On the wall of this room are a rack of six throwing knives, two wooden shields, two polearms with wooden heads, and a goose down mattress for exercise sessions with Markessa. The quintain is a revolving cross- piece on a post. On one end of the crosspiece is fastened a shield and a sandbag is attached to the other end. Striking the shield will cause the sandbag to swing around.
Markessa's bodyguard: AC 5; MV 9"; hp 21; #АТ 2; D 4-11; +2 to hit; 518,1 10, W 9, D 16, Con 12, Cha 17
32. Bodyguard's Quarters
This room is simple and austere. There is a cot, a table with food and a flask of
wine on it, and a stool. There is no one here.
This is the bodyguard's quarters. There is nothing of value here. Beneath his pillow is a lock of golden hair, and on the table is a pewter eating dagger.
33. Minotaur's Room
This room is musty and foul smelling. The floor is littered with old bones and a plank of wood lies just in front of the
door. In one corner of the room is a pile of leaves. The room appears to be empty. There is a door on the opposite side.
This is the lair of a minotaur. He has propped a plank of wood at each door which will fall if anyone tries to force the doors. This warns him and he will step behind the door to await the party's entrance, then he will attack with surprise.
The minotaur is Markessa's special guard and he will attack on sight anyone not accompanied by Markessa or her double. He guards a secret door in the east wall which leads to Markessa's spell room. Markessa rewards him with a steady supply of slaves to eat. The secret door is described in section C.
Minotaur: AC 5; MV 12”; HD 6 *3; hp 30; ЛАТ 1 or 2; D 2-8/1-4 or morning star 4-10
C. Secret Doors
These three secret doors are protected by glyphs of warding and wizard locks, They will open only to Markessa or a 9th level or higher magic-user if they speak aloud the name of the glyph. The glyph on spell room 34 is death, and the first character to open this door without speaking its name must save vs, Death Ray or die. The glyph on the north door to room 35 is terror, and the first character to open this door without speak- ing its name must save vs. Spells, or scream and flee in terror, beating past his or her comrades to escape. The character will be totally unwilling to go through the door. The glyph on the west door to room 35 is frost, and the first character to open the door without speaking its name will be blasted by cold for 20 points of damage. If a save vs. Spells is made the character will only take half damage.
34. Markessa's Spell Room
This room contains shelves filled with alchemical and surgical equipment and dozens of closed bins. A pentagram is painted on the floor of the room in red.
White candles stand in candleholders at each of its five points; they are unlit. In the center of the pentagram is a gold amulet.
This is Markessa's spell room and most of the bins and shelves are filled with materials necessary to spell research and magical experimentation. Some of the items in the bins are parchment, pens carved from exotic materials, and rare inks, paints, powdered metals, string, brass hammers and plates, and other magical equipment. Most of the baskets are filled with straw to protect their contents.
If anyone steps inside the pentagram the candles burst aflame and the person will fall into a slumber from which he or she may only be roused if he or she is taken from the pentagram. The amulet is electrum, and contains a protection from good spell which may be activated for three turns once a day by speaking the command word. The amu- let will remain stuck to the floor until some- one enters the pentagram.
Beneath a false bottom in the third bin is Markessa's 3d level spell book. The first page is trapped with explosive runes, The book has the spell lightning bolt in it. All of the items in this room are worth a total of 1,300 gp, though it would require several mules to carry the stuff.
35. Markessa's Private Chambers
This room is a luxurious bed chamber, richly outfitted with costly furniture, expensive tapestries, and brightly col- огей carpets. There is a curtained alcove in the southwestern corner of this room, draped with white velvet. There is a
canopied bed, a blanket chest at the foot of the bed, a wardrobe, two ornate chairs, and three small tables, one hold- ing a basin and pitcher for washing. There is also a small fireplace.
This is Markessa's private quarters. If she has escaped from room 22 and is still alive she will be sitting in the curtained alcove in front of a dresser with a mirror, combing her hair or bandaging her wounds. She will be armed and armored as given in area 19. Note that she will not have available any thrown darts, and will not have re-memorized any spells used. Markessa has a wand of magic missiles with 12 charges left in it on the dresser and there is a pinch of dust of disap- pearance on her powder puff. If the party attacks her she will use the dust of disappear- ance to turn invisible and attack with her wand. Attacking while invisible from dust of disappearance will not cancel her invisibility. She will then move to the fireplace and flee out the secret entrance.
The mirror or the dresser will, upon com- mand, show what is occurring in room 30 as seen by the painting there. The blanket chest holds two down-filled pillows and a fur cover worth 300 gp.
Embedded into the south wall behind the bed curtains is a wall safe. The safe has a poison needle trap in the lock. Inside the safe is a metal box containing a gold and ruby necklace worth 1,400 gp, a matching pair of earrings worth 600 gp, and a stickpin with the leering face of a gargoyle with two ruby eyes worth 75 gp. When the head of the stickpin is pressed a drop of very toxic poison will form at its tip (save vs. Poison at -4 or die, if pricked). There is also a velvet purse holding 50 pp and three sapphires worth 150 gp each.
Hidden behind a secret panel (treat as a secret door) in the back of the safe are Markessa's 1st and 2d level spell books. The first contains the spells magic missile, pro- tection from good, and shocking grasp. The second contains scare, wizard lock and darkness 15' radius.
Behind the fireplace on the east wall is a secret door opened by adjusting the flue with a poker. When the secret door is opened the wooden chandelier on the ceiling will come crashing to the Hoor to distract attention. The fireplace will then swing out into the room revealing the secret passage beyond it. This is Markessa's escape tunnel if she is pursued to her chambers.
36, Escape Tunnel
The door opens to reveal a 5-foot-wide tunnel running to the south and out of
sight.
This escape tunnel is trapped with a cov- ered pit. The trapdoor is 20 feet long and will fall open once someone runs across it, The cover however, has a safety catch on it and is normally safe to walk across. If Markessa is pursued down this corridor, she will step on a stone trigger on the south side of the pit, activating the trap once she has crossed it. Any character stepping on the trap should roll a 46. On a roll of 1-3 the character will fall; on a roll of 4-5 the char- acter will manage to catch hold of the edge and hang on. Hanging individuals must be rescued in 1-3 rounds or they too will fall. On a roll of 6 the character managed to leap to safety,
Those characters who fall take 2-12 points of damage, and fall 40 feet into an underground river (the river cushions their
fall). Victims will be carried out of sight in less than one round by the swift flowing cur- rent. Characters may swim, but party mem- bers in metallic armor (chain, plate, banded, etc.) have a 25% chance of drown- ing; characters in leather armor have a 1046 chance of drowning, while characters in no armor or magical armor have 5% chance of drowning, Any one who survives will be carried out of the dungeon with the river, emerging in а lake within sight of a cave which is the tunnel exit from the dungeon.
37. Exit Tunnel
This tunnel is 15 feet wide and 15 feet high. It is very long, almost 400 yards, and runs out into the hills nearly a quar-
ter of a mile away from the fort. At vary- ing intervals along the way, lit torches have been stuck in the wall to provide a
dim light.
Part way down the tunnel, Markessa's escape tunnel exits through a secret door in the west wall into this passage. The secret door looks like part of the stone wall and is opened by pushing up on a nearby rock out- cropping.
38. Underground Cavern
The tunnel opens into a large natural cavern. In the southeast corner of the
cavern are a number of black-skinned elves leading slaves who are carrying packs.
This cavern serves as a trading station for drow (black elf) caravans that trade with the hill fort. The drow caravans come from deeper inside the earth.
All the weapons and armor carried by the Drow are of special manufacture and do not radiate magic. If exposed to sunlight they lose their magical properties immediately and corrode within two weeks.
Merchant (4th level F/4th level C): AC 1; MV 12“; hp 18, #AT 1 or spells; D 4-9 Spells: cure light wounds (x2), detect magic, hold person, speak with animals Equipment: chain mail *3, mace *2 Guard leader (4th level fighter): AC 1; MV 12"; hp 21; #AT 1; D 3-8 Equipment: chain mail +2, small shield +1, r +1, short sword +2 Guards (2d level fighters); AC 3; MV 12^; hp 10 each; #AT 1; D by weapon
89
Equipment: chain mail +1, short sword * 1, two poisoned javelins (save vs. Poi- son or die)
Spells (all drow): dancing lights, darkness, faerie fire
39. Exit
Here is a large cavern with an exit on the far side, through which a cool breeze
blows. The room is occupied by several hobgoblins standing about a small camp- fire by the entrance to the cave.
These seven hobgoblins guard the cave against discovery, even though it is well camouflaged outside and is in a hidden dell. The hobgoblins are armed with polearms and are bored. If Markessa has fled this way they are just pretending boredom to draw the party out, at which time they will leap behind boulders and grab their bows hidden there. Each hobgoblin has 2-12 gp.
Hobgoblins (7): AC 5; MV 9"; HD 1+1; hp 6 each; #AT 1; D 1-8
Chapter 6:
The Caves of the Drachensgrab
For the caravans of the slave lords, the next leg of the journey is one made by a few, but not all. Most stop their trek here. The slaves are kept for arriving merchants and sold for servitude in distant lands. Only those with the most special talents and con- nections ever continue the journey to the final stronghold of the slave lords. Once there, some are kept for their skills and knowledge while others are sold or ran- somed for the price they command.
The trail from the slaver stockade is easy to follow. NPCs in higher positions at the stockade know of a trail to Suderham, though none of them have ever taken it. They and the documents found can also confirm that Dame Gold and the others were sent to Suderham. The player charac- ters have no trouble in setting out on the trail to Suderham.
Stalman Klim and Edralve
Stalman Klim does little at this time. He quite rightly calculates that the less he fid- dles with events, the more successful he will be. At the slaver's stockade, he arranges for one additional letter to be planted among those already there. If the player characters recover any documents, his plant is among them. It is apparently the only one with any unique information — all the others record mundane transactions of the slave business. The note reads:
It is agreed that old Klim has grown soft- hearted. 1 shall look forward to having you sit on the Inner Council with me. There will soon be many openings. It is
imperative that the operations fail at the hands of the outsiders. Others will be blamed. 1 must be able to move the base as I choose.
The Trail
At the outset, the caravans' route is clear: it goes higher and higher into the Drachens-
grab. During the first day, the trail winds through oaks and cottonwoods, then gradu- ally rises into aspens and pine. The second day, the trail enters into a rugged rocky region. There are many granite outcrop- pings, ravines, fast-flowing streams, and switch-backed turns, Throughout the day the trail grows fainter and fainter. By the end of the second day, the trail frequently passes over rockfields and barren stretches, making it almost impossible to follow. That night, rain falls heavily. Everyone and everything is thoroughly soaked. By the
next morning, the trail can only be followed by those with tracking skill. Even they even- tually lose the trail. The characters are somewhere in the wilderness without a trail or guide to follow.
Random Wilderness Encounters
While the player characters are making this leg of the journey, check for encounters twice a day, once during the day and once at night. An encounter occurs if a 1-4 is rolled on a 1d10. Use the table below to determine the creature or event encountered.
Die Roll Encounter NA AC MV HD hp ZAT D AL 01-05 *Bugbear War Party** 30. 5 9" ӚЗІ 37 1 28 СЕ Leader 25 3 — 4 30 — 2842 — 06-10 *Caravan 11-14 *Escaped Slave 19:10 927 1 3 1 1-6 М 15 Firbolg* * Я 2 19" 1592 60 1 3+18+10 N 16-20 *Flind Hunting Party © > 127 2+3 11 1: P5 LE Leader Lg — 3 14 — 28 — 20 Galeb Duhr* * 1 2 6" 9 44 2 3-18 N 21-24 Giant Bat 8 8 /18" 1/2 3 1 12 N 25-28 Giant Ram + flock 5 6 3" & 2 1 2-12 N 29-35 *Gnoll Hunting Party 25 5 9” 2 E 1 18 CE Leader 1 4 - 3 13 — 15841 - 36-39 *Gnoll War Party 50 5 o" 2 12 1 1-8 СЕ Leader" * 2 бы — 4 20 — 1-10 - 40-41 "Goblin War Party 60 6 6" 1-1 3 1 1-6 LE Leader 5 — 1 5 - 18 - 43-46 “Hill Giant** 4 4 127 8*2 43 1 2-16 CE 47-50 *Hobgoblin Raiders 9D 5 о” 11 7 1 1-8 LE Leader* " 4 4 -- 2 11 -- 1-8%2 — 51-54 *Suderham Hunters 69-78! 07 1 6 1 1-6 МЕ 55-56 “Kobold Spies 2 7 6” 1/2 2 1 14 LE 57 Mountain Giant" * 2 4 312" 12 60 1 4-40 CN 58-61 Norker Raiders i2 3 9" 1*2 7 2 1-3/1-6 CE 62-67 Ogre Magi** 2 4 915 5*2 3 1 132 LE 68-75 Ogres 8 5 9" 4*1 22 1 1-10 CE 76-80 *Orc Raiders 100 6 9" 1 6 1 1-8 LE Leader* * 10 4 — з 16 — 1-8+2 — 81-84 Owlbear** 9 SS 127 S42 2 3 1-6x2 N 2-12 85-88 *Stone Giant* * 3 о 12" 9+2 43 1 3-18 N 89-06 Troll Raiders* * 10: а 12 6%6 32 3 5-8x2 СЕ 2-12 Giant Troll Leader.* * . 4 19! 8 40 1 216 СЕ 97-100 * Verbeeg* * 8 4 318" 53:5. 27 2 1-10+4 N
* See the text below.
90
** This creature has special abilities.
Caravan: The player characters sight a merchant caravan one half mile away. This caravan is either a slave trader (70%) or an outfitter (30%). Slave traders are traveling to or from Suderham (randomly determined). Outfitters are renegades carrying weapons and other supplies to the non-human tribes of the Drachensgrab and Pomarj. Both are heavily guarded with 60-120 guards. In addition there are 11-20 merchants and wagon (or mule) loads. If a slave caravan is returning from Suderham, there are four to 12 slaves present. None are those the player characters are searching for. The caravan is led by a band of NPCs: a fighter of 8th to 10th level; and a cleric or magic-user of 7th level. Slave caravans know the route to enter the Valley of Suderham, but they do not freely tell the player characters. АП caravans are hostile and suspicious of human strangers and automatically consider elves and dwarves to be enemies.
Guards (0 level humans): AC 6; hp 4; FAT 1; D 1-8; ALN
Escaped slave: This poor soul (male or female) has escaped from a slave caravan. The slave naturally flees from the characters. If convinced the player characters are friends, the slave points the characters in the general direction of the Valley of Suderham.
Hill giant: These fellows are returning from a mission to Suderham, acting as emissaries from their people. They are assisting the slave lords (and those behind them) in their endeavors as explained in Queen of the Spiders. They know the route to Suderham but do not talk. Documents carried say, “The great plan is underway, mistress. Edralve.”
Hunting party: The members of the hunting party are fanned out over an area, thus the player characters only see a small part of the group at first. The remaining members circle around the player characters. Hunting parties have no particular desire to fight, but certainly will if they must.
Kobold spies: These little creatures attempt to flee as soon as they are sighted. They work for the slave lords, both as pets and useful servants. They report the movements of the player characters to the slave lords, allowing them to warn the gatekeepers.
Raiders: These are bands of humanoids bent solely on destruction. They attack anything or anyone they sight, without regard for numbers. If forced to retreat,
they return to their own lands.
Stone giant: These fellows have left their caverns to investigate dark whispers of things disturbing. They fear their safety may be endangered by coming events. They have only just become worried and have no details. Upon encountering the player characters, they are aloof, cautious, and suspicious. They do not attack, nor do they assist. If addressed, their leader delivers the following warning.
"Manlings, be warned. 1 am Grazzcyk, speaker for the Brotherhood of Granite. Forces are moving today and beyond. Fear what will come. We will mind our women and children. You are wise to do the same. Someday our people will meet again.”
Suderham hunters: This is a small party of men out of the Valley of Suderham. They have no desire to fight the player characters and avoid them if at all possible. They know the way into the Valley of Suderham and can easily be convinced to talk.
War party: These are large bands of warriors bent on a specific mission. The player characters first encounter one to six scouts sent out ahead of the band. These scouts avoid combat and report the presence of the player characters to the main body. If the scouts do not return, the main body expects combat and advances accordingly. If the scouts report that the characters are moving ahead of the war party, the characters will be attacked to prevent them from spreading an alarm. If the player characters are behind the main body, a rearguard (1/4 the war party) will be assigned to watch their movements and attack them if they become threatening.
Verbeeg: These gigantic fellows have been attracted to the area of the Drachensgrab by the rich opportunities for mercenary work. They are not amazingly brilliant; clever player characters can pretend to be human mercenaries with the same mission. The verbeeg only know that rumors of something big have been floating around the area.
Entering the Valley of Suderham
Suderham, the city of the slave lords, is hidden away in the crater-bowl of a dor- mant volcano. It cannot be seen by normal travelers, screened as it is by the high wall of the peak. The characters must discover an entrance into the valley.
There are two known entrances to Suderham. One is the common entrance, used by virtually all who live and visit
91
there, a steep and winding trail that switches up the side of the mountain. It is well-camouflagued, making it almost impossible to find without proper direc- tions. Near the top there is a small gap in the cliff walls, a narrow defile through which all caravans pass. This entrance is carefully guarded at all times.
The second entrance is only known to a few besides the slave lords. It is a dangerous and seldom used series of tunnels that pass under the base of the crater wall and rise onto the island at the heart of the crater. It forms a type of emergency exit for the slave lords and their confidants. As such, it is filled with guardian monsters and other dangers to discourage the curious.
If the player characters are wandering through the area lost, there is a 5% chance per day they accidentally stumble upon the trail entrance. However it is much more likely they will find the secret entrance first.
Stalman Klim, in his plan to discredit Edralve, wants the characters to slip into the valley unnoticed. Thus, he has sent his agents to secretly assist the player charac- ters. One morning the characters awaken and find an unusual sight not far from their camp. An arrow, carefully made from loose stones, points into the wilderness, This arrow was not there the night before. It points in the direction of the secret entrance. If the characters follow the arrow, they find others guiding their way. If they do not fol- low, they find a similar arrow each morn- ing. The final arrow points directly to the cave openings through the crater wall. There are no tracks to indicate whether any of these entrances have been used recently.
Cave Encounters
The following encounter table is used if the player characters enter the caves of the secret entrance. Encounters occur on a one in eight chance (d8); check each turn. If an encounter occurs, roll percentage dice to determine the type of monster encountered.
d% roll Encounter
01-25 2-8 Bugbears 26-50 2-8 Gnolls
51-60 1 Leprechaun 61-70 1-2 Leucrottas 71-80 1-4 Ogres
81-90 1-2 Giant Spiders 91-00 1-4 Wights
The Caves of Drachensgrab
A. Blind cave
This cave ends after 100 feet. Piles of
gnawed, yellow bones and other refuse litter the cave floor near the far wall.
The cave is empty and inconsequential. There is nothing of value and no exit other than the cave mouth.
B. Entry tunnels
The caves are winding and natural, twisting deeper and deeper into the cliffs. They eventually come together in a large square room, 50 feet on a side and 10 feet high. The room is dusty and dirty, and in the northwest corner are two 10-foot long by 2-foot wide strips of bark or hidelike material which give off an odor resembling spoiled meat. There is a 10- foot wide passageway of cut stone lead- ing out of the center of the south wall.
If the two pieces of hide are examined closely, they appear to be strong and flexi- ble. Also, the undersides of the strips are scored deeply, and crystals of a saltlike sub- stance are in the grooves. This material is perfectly normal salt from the slide (area 1).
A1. The salt slide
The rough-hewn north passage ends in a dimly seen door. As the party approaches within 40 feet of the door,
the floor suddenly drops out from under the lead characters! They land on a great pile of salt and begin to slide rapidly down into the darkness.
Up to the first two ranks of the party falls through the floor. The floor section snaps shut after one round unless it is held or spiked open. All those who fall drop 15 feet and take one to six points of damage. This trap can be found by searching for traps or by magical means and can be sprung safely if discovered. The door at the end of the hallway is false.
There is a 20% chance that a character falling through the trap drops one or more items (one to two) that are in hand. Any object dropped into the salt mountain has a 75% chance of being lost forever. In addi- tion, fragile items (like flasks of oil or
potions) may break. Use the appropriate save vs. Fall, with penalties for height can- celled by the soft impact surface. For exam- ple, a ceramic oil flask will save on a roll of 11 or better.
Those sliding down the mountain of salt pass through a large natural chute, which has strange luminous fungus growing on the walls.
The cavern and the salt remain from thousands of years ago when a subterra- nean river wended its way through here. The combination of the fungal spores and the salt acts as a slow spell lasting five turns. Neutralize poison or dispel magic counter its effects, Salt taken from the slide area is normal salt with no spe- cial properties. It only has slowing prop- erties when crystals are touched and the spores are inhaled.
Any character who does not contact the salt or breathe the spores is not slowed; for example, those using a fly spell or one of the bark toboggans found in room B. Armor or clothing does not negate the salt's effects. However, if a character attempts to slide down on a large shield he or she has only a 40% chance (minus his or her dexterity) of being slowed. Descent takes one round if tumbling, sliding, flying, or levitating; it takes two rounds for a controlled descent using ropes.
2. Guardroom
Tumbling quickly out of the salt slide, you find yourself in a 70-foot by 50-foot by 20-foot room with many exits. Stand-
ing in a semicircle around the slide are 10 gnolls, aiming crossbows and armed with longswords. They fire their cross- bows and reload very quickly.
The 10 gnolls all fire their crossbows for one round (remember that the party is prob- ably slowedat this point). They concentrate their fire on spellcasters. Then, three of the gnolls and the leader draw swords and defend the remaining six, who continue to fire crossbows. When two or more gnolls are killed, the remainder all melee with swords, concentrating on one or two char- acters at a time. Retreat up the slide is not possible unless a fly or levitation spell is used
Each gnoll has six gp and two ep. One gnoll (the leader) has a gold amulet worth 50
92
gp and a scroll case. In the scroll case is what appears to be a very thick piece of blank paper, actually two pieces of paper glued together with a third piece in between. The inner piece of paper can be discovered sim- ply by peeling the other two pieces apart or by cutting them. It cannot be found by gaz- ing through the paper at a light source. The concealed paper is a map of this room (or one identical to it) with the southernmost hallway on the west wall marked with an “x” The ranger can tell that this exit is the most heavily traveled if she spends at least one turn looking for tracks.
Gnolls: AC 5; leader 4; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 14, leader 16; #AT 1; D crossbow 1-4, sword 1-8, leader 2-9
3. The piercer cavern
The corridor widens into a rough hewn, approximately octagonal natural cavern lit by luminous fungus. The exact size of the room is difficult to determine because
of the large number of stalactites present. Directly opposite the entry, 110 feet away, is a door of iron-banded wood.
The door is false; the real exit is behind a boulder against the south wall. This exit is easily seen from the false door. The cavern is inhabited by piercers of the largest size. There are a total of 30 piercers, and they cannot be detected by infravision. (Should the party specifically state they are looking for piercers, there is a 5% chance per char- acter per round that the slight movement in the ceiling is noticed.)
The piercers do not react to torches or noise alone, but if a pyrotechnics or burning hands is cast one to four of the creatures drop. A fireball or wall of fire causes three to 12 to drop and clears a safe path across the room, However, piercers do move, so a safe path cannot be cleared for longer than one round. Shields should be taken into account for armor class if held overhead, but will not give immunity to attack.
Each round that someone is in the indi- cated area two piercers fall from the ceiling. If more than one person is in the area, deter- mine randomly who is struck. If offensive measures are taken against the piercers, the piercers launch a mass attack of at least one piercer per person in the area.
Piercers: AC 3; MV 1”; HD 4; hp 30 each; #AT 1; D 4-24
4. Hyenadon feedíng time
In this room are three large, doglike crea-
tures and five gnolls with buckets of bloody meat.
As soon as the gnolls see the adventurers, they throw pieces of meat among them, and the hyenadons immediately charges the party and attacks. They are +2 to hit the first melee round because of their charge.
The five gnolls use their bows as long as possible, concentrating on the spellcasters if possible. When the party begins to break through the hyenadons, one or two gnolls advance with swords. When all the hyena- dons are dead, the rest of the bowmen draw their swords and melee.
Each gnoll has 10 gp and 5 ep. The fourth gnoll is wearing a ring of free action.
Hyenadons: AC 7; MV 12*; HD 5; hp 33 each; #AT 1; D 3-12
Gnolls: АС 5; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 10 each; VAT 1: D 1-6 bow, 1-8 sword
5. The curtain of blue fire
The passageway enters a 30-foot wide, 70-foot long, 20-foot high room. Stone steps descend into a pool of white, bub- bling, translucent goo and emerge from the muck at the other end. A 1-foot wide stone bridge arches some 5 feet above the pool crossing all the way to the other end
of the room. Bisecting the room exactly halfway across the bridge is a 30-foot wide, 20-foot high, 5-foot thick wall of transparent, crackling blue fire that leaps from wall to wall and from ceiling to the surface of the goo. The air smells as if a lightning bolt has struck nearby.
The blue fire is actually a field of magic force that strikes any character who tries to walk through it for 16 points of electrical damage (save vs. Breath Weapons for eight points).
A character who walks across the bridge after first coating himself or herself with the thick white goo suffers only half damage (eight points or save for four points). When- ever the electricity strikes a character for damage (including a thief climbing the walls), a Dexterity check must be made to see if the character falls into the goo. The character must roll his or her Dexterity or less on a d20 to avoid falling in; no damage is sustained from the fall.
A character crossing through the fire
without touching the bridge, walls, or ceil- ing (by flying, for example) suffers no dam- age, but all metal on his or her body is strongly “magnetized” for five turns; a drawn sword will attach itself to metal armor or shield, and so on, This is not true magnetism, so even non-ferrous metals are affected.
The white goo is 10 feet deep; the bubbles are caused by air being forced through the thick liquid. An unencumbered character can swim through the goo with great effort. (Swimming is so difficult that a character who swims the entire length of the room will take one to four points of damage from severe overexertion.) However, the curtain of fire does not effect characters below the surface of the goo. A character who walks across the bottom of the room will discover that the goo can be breathed without diffi- culty and that any taken into the body is harmlessly absorbed. The goo hides any character in it from the rest of the party.
Any character walking across the floor of the room has a 15% chance to bump into the sheathed Sword of Lyons suspended in the goo. This legendary invisible short sword is *1(AL CG). While it is sheathed, its wearer is invisible (as the spell invisibility) until he or she attacks. When the sword is drawn the invisibility ends, but the sword itself is always invisible. The sword was dumped here by order of the slave lords, in hopes that it would never be found.
A character who wears the ring of free action may move through the white goo with no difficulty. Party members will dis- cover as they leave the pool that the sticky white goo has coated their bodies and hardens as it dries. For the next five turns the drying goo impairs fighting capability. Those so covered attack and defend at -2. At the end of the five turns the rubbery material is solid enough to peel off easily. The drying process cannot be speeded up by any means, nor can the goo be removed with water, oil, or any other solvent,
6. The hanging rope
Hanging from the center of the ceiling of this bare 50-foot by 30-foot by 20-foot
room is a thick (six-inch) rope. There are no visible exits from this room.
There is a secret door directly opposite the door the party enters by, lt may be detected in the normal way. The only way to open the secret door is to pull firmly on the rope; it always works. Opening the
93
secret door triggers the Hoor to fold back against the walls, dropping anyone in the room (except anyone holding on to the rope) 10 feet down into a pool of clear liq- uid. The pool is filled to the depth of 1 foot with acid, causing one to eight points of damage per round. The fall does one to six points of damage (so the initial damage will be dé plus d8 points). Characters who escape the pool continue to take one point of damage each round until they remove the acid from their skin and clothing with water, wine, or some similar material. This takes only one round.
Any unprepared character who pulled the rope (or who was holding the rope when the floor fell) may hang onto the rope by rolling his or her Strength or less on a d20. A char- acter who succeeds may swing back and forth and reach the door on either side of the room. A character who fails drops into the acid, leaving the rope hanging in the center of the room. (If this happens, the characters may Йу or levitate to the rope, try to snag it with several long items tied together, or attempt to leap to it.) Leaping has a chance of success equal to the character's Strength plus Dexterity plus 4096, Success means that the character has caught the rope and can swing back and forth to either door. Failure means the character has fallen into the acid and is stunned for two rounds. The acid cannot be gathered or transported unless the characters have special containers — clay pottery or glass vials.
7. The storoper
The passage enters a 40-foot by 40-foot by 10-foot room with no visible doors. Near the northeast corner is a man-sized statue of a cigar-shaped beast with six tentacles and a gaping maw in the center of its body. Thestatue is about 5 feet high
and 2 feet in diameter. The texture of the stone suggests a mass of rotting plant matter. The base of the statue partially covers a 3 foot diameter circular opening in the floor.
As soon as the party enters, the "statue" (actually a storoper), suddenly shoots its tentacles out at the lead party members. The first two characters hit appear to turn to stone — no saving throw. The next round this effect wears off, but the victims fight the party to the best of their ability as long as the storoper is alive. If the storoper is killed, the victims wander about aimlessly until the effect wears off (10 turns). Normal missile
RON LINDAHN VAL LAKEY LINDAHN еее
& А. ч айй wA A ЧАШ ——áÓ
fire will not harm the storoper.
Otherwise, the storoper fights as a nor- mal roper — each tentacle hit causes weak- ness (50% strength loss in 1-3 rounds). Characters hit by the tentacles are drawn to the creatures maw at 10 feet per round. Characters may break the tentacles by roll- ing double their Bend Bars/Lift Gates per- centage or less. Lightning, cold and fire attacks do normal damage to the storoper. The storoper does not attack characters under its control.
Once the storoper is slain, it may be cut open to reveal two wooden bludgeons, 15 pp. and five polished red garnets worth 100 gp each. One of the garnets is actually a gem of seeing, hut this will be noted only if a character looks through it or casts a detect magic spell upon it. The hole beneath the storoper, when uncovered, leads to a pass- ageway 10 feet below that leads northwest.
Storoper: AC 0; HD 6; hp 35; #AT 6 plus 1; D strength drain, 1-10 bite
8. The spiked door
This empty room is 25-feet wide and 20- feet deep, with wooden walls, There is a wooden door on the opposite wall, near
the southeast corner. All the wood in this room is similar to knotty pine — old, heavy, and full of knots.
This room is actually a wooden room inside a stone one. There are two doors in the position indicated — the wooden one with knotholes described to the players, and a second door behind it with spring-loaded spikes. Should the characters knock out knotholes and peer through the first door, there is a chance to detect the spikes (as detect traps). The first door can only be opened by slamming a heavy weight against it (as in “bashing” a door). When this is done, the door slides two feet back on a track and slams up against the second door. The spikes in the second door then pierce the first door through the knotholes, inflict- ing 18 points of damage on anyone bashing the door (save vs. Poison for nine). Once the trap is sprung, the doors may be safely opened. (The trap may be sprung harm- lessly; for example, by throwing a dead body against the door.)
9. The throne room
This room is locked. The lock must be picked or shattered (one turn smashing
with weapons) before entering. The room is 130 feet long, 100 feet wide, and 30 to 40 feet tall. There are four rows of pillars, two on each side of the room, with a long space between them occupied by a large reptilian creature, The crea- ture has a heavy shell and a tail that looks like a giant mace, At the far end of the room is a throne. Sitting there is a tall, emaciated gnoll-like figure whose evil eyes glow amber. The creature bears a 7-foot-long flail with three massive heads. To the right of the great marble throne are six tall gnolls with halberds, and to the left are six leering ghouls. A loud bellow breaks from the reptile as it charges.
The occupants of this room are not sur- prised, as there is a small peephole in the wall looking out into the corridor. All of the figures described to the players are illusions. The illusion of the ankylosaurus hides a rust monster. The illusion of gnoll-god Yeenoghu on the throne hides Wimpell Frump, a lack- luster illusionist of the 8th level. He is a minor slave lord assigned to guard this entrance to Suderham. The throne upon which Wimpell sits has special magical enchantments to maintain these illusions. The ghouls and gnolls are illusions. The real guards, five gnolls, are hiding among the pillars and pepper the party with arrows when they enter, When the gnolls are dis- covered, they protect the illusionist.
All of the illusions in this room are actu- ally spectral forces and cannot be dispelled simply by disbelieving them. If the gem of seeing is used, the actual nature of the illu- sions will be revealed. Otherwise each illu- sion is maintained until a character successfully strikes at it, at which time that illusion disappears.
There is a glass wall in front of the throne so that Wimpell may cast his spells (see below) without fear of being struck by mis- siles. This wall is impervious to physical missiles, though certain spells (like lightning bolt) may shatter it, subject to saving throws, of course. The wall will not provide protection from missile attacks from the sides of the hall if the firer is beyond the third set of pillars.
While the "ankylosaurus" delays the party, the illusionary ghouls and gnolls advance (if a cleric attempts to turn the ghouls they turn away, cower, and do not attack). The illusions strike for real damage until they themselves are hit, at which point they disappear.
95
The rust monster fights until slain or dis- tracted (by a large amount of iron spikes — at least seven). Note that any weapon strik- ing the rust monster is subject to rust (unless the weapon is made of wood, like the clubs found in the storoper). The real gnolls who are protecting Wimpell fight to the death.
Wimpell, on the other hand, casts the fol- lowing spells and then flees (note that the powerful throne doubles spell ranges but not areas of effect).
1. As soon as possible (when most of the characters are fighting the rust monster) Wimpell uses fear, immediately follow- ing with paralyzation.
- blur on himself.
. emotion hopelessness
blindness on a party spellcaster
repeat 4
. color spray
. color spray
. darkness, in which he tries to escape.
Qo M o uU & o IN
If Wimpellis ever seriously threatened, he casts the darkness spell and tries to escape through the secret door in the northeastern corner of the room. As he leaves the room he reverts to his true form — a wizened old man in tattered clothing. After passing through the secret door he activates a spe- cial lock that prevents the door from being opened for ten turns, then makes his escape. He has bracers of defense AC 4, and a dag- ger +2. The throne Ваза hidden panel in the rear which can be detected by tapping or by a similar method. After searching for one turn the party discovers how to open the panel, which conceals a duplicate key to the secret door.
If captured, Wimpell certainly lives up to his name. As far as slave lords go, he is the weakest, most snivelling one the player characters have met to date. He has been continually abused by his fellow slave lords and is in great fear of them. If he does talk, the player characters get little of use from him. Apparently he was not trusted or respected with knowledge of the inner coun- cil's plans nor does he know much about the overall operation. He does know the names of the Nine of the Inner Council and can give a brief description of the character of each.
Rust monster: AC 2; MV 18^; HD 5; hp 27; #AT 2; D rust only
Wimpell Frump: AC 0; MV 12”; hp 33; #AT 1; D 3-6
Gnolls: AC 4; MV 9"; HD 3; hp 20; #AT 1; D 1-6 arrow, 2-9 sword
Chapter 7:
The Hidden City of Suderham
Nestled high in the peaks of the Drachensgrab Mountains is the hidden city of Suderham, home and base of the slave lords. If the characters find it, there is a twisting trail that passes through the rim of the crater. This path is well-guarded.
As the characters move up the trail, they have a series of encounters. The encounters always occur in the order listed below. No map is provided for these encounters, as none is necessary.
The Trail
One of the major difficulties the player characters face with any encounter on the trail is the restricted amount of space they have. On one side is a precipice and on the other is a sharply rising wall. The width var- ies from 5 to 14 feet. The narrowest sections create dangerous bottlenecks for the caravan wagons that pass, Indeed, on the rocks below are the smashed wagons and bleached bones of those who did not make it.
Unless otherwise specified in an encounter, the width of the trail will be 1-10 +4 feet in the area of the encounter. The drop will be 50-100 feet (1d6+4) to jagged rocks below. The cliff wall will rise 30-60 feet to the next higher portion of the trail.
Encounters
Spies: Shortly after starting on the trail, the movements of the player characters will be observed by two guards, hidden in a nest above the trail. Player characters carefully observing the trail can locate the two if they successful roll their Intelligence scores or under on 1d20. This roll should be made only if the player states his character is look- ing.
Upon sighting the player characters, the two spies flash a signal to those further along the trail (a mirror in the daytime or a shuttered lantern at night). Those above know that strangers are coming and their numbers. The spies take no other action. They are relieved every three days.
Guards: AC 6; MV 12^; HD 1; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-6 with shortbow; AL LE
The Checkpoint: At this point, the trail narrows to a width of 6 feet and passes into a large cleft in the rim. This is the main guard post of the trail. The trail runs gener- ally straight through this cleft for 150 feet. At the outer end (which the player charac- ters come to first) is a heavy wooden gate with a wooden battlement atop it. Carved from the stone to either side are spacious guardrooms, the entrances at the level of the battlements. The stone walls to either side are pierced with arrow slits.
Standing on the battlement is the captain of the guard. He will demand to know the business of all who enter. Those able to show a letter of introduction or who know the password (nilon, orcish for hot) are allowed to enter. Those who cannot are ordered to leave. Those who refuse this are met with a flight from the 20 archers behind the loopholes.
Attempts to batter the gate will make lit- tle headway. The doors are made of oaken beams 4 inches thick. Behind this are ham- тегей lead sheets, 1/2 inch thick. Finally, there is another layer of beaming, again 4 inches thick, The hinges, hidden from the outside, are massive to bear all the weight. Furthermore, at the first sign of any attack, the captain will call the rest of the guard. These 10 men line the top of the gate and defend with polearms.
Beyond the gate, the cleft is lined on both sides with more arrow slits, each 15 feet above the ground. These are accessed by passages quarried from the rock and con- necting to the guardrooms at both ends. Thus, it is possible for a few archers to keep up a deadly rain of arrows the entire length of the cleft.
At the far end of the cleft is the final obstacle, used by the guards only in moments of extreme emergency. Rigged atop the cliff walls is a deadfall of several tons of rock. Should all else fail, the guards release the deadfall from controls inside the passageway. The rock will crash down, closing the pass. Those within the last 20 feet of the cleft have three segments to flee or be crushed. Those within 20 feet of this area must make a saving throw vs. dragon
96
breath or suffer 3-18 points of damage from loose boulders. Those standing 21 to 30 feet away must make a similar save (with +2 on the die roll) or suffer 1-8 points of damage.
Captain of the guard (half-orc 10 level F/4th level C): AC -1; MV 12”; hp 62; #AT 3/2; D 3-10; AL LE Equipment: plate mail +1, shield +2, sword +1, luck blade, mace of disrup- tion, wand of magic missiles (15 charges) Captain's Guard (10 5th level fighters): AC 2; MV 6”; hp 41; #AT 1; D 1-8; AL LE Equipment: longsword, military fork Those fighting from the battlement against targets lower than them gain the benefits of 25% cover (AC bonus +2).
Archers (20 2d level fighters): AC 7; MV 12% hp 11; #AT 1 or 2; D 1-6; AL LE Equipment: shortsword, shortbow The archers gain the benefit of 9096 cover (AC bonus +10, save to no damage).
The Aerie of the Slave Lords
Beyond the secret mountain pass is the hidden valley of the slave lords. Nestled in a volcanic crater, the peaceful seeming valley is dominated by a brilliant blue lake. There, in the middle of the lake, is the isle of the slave lords. Called the Aerie, it is accessible only by the boats and raft ferries visible at the docks of the island. On the isle there rises the "extinct" volcanic peak, Mount Fla- menblutt, At its base is a small city, Suderham—home of the fabled slave lords. The city, while small, is surrounded by impregnable walls.
If the player characters have blasted their way through the gate to enter the valley, an alarm will have been raised. Watching the city, they see preparations for a major armed expedition against them. Make it clear to the player characters that there are hundreds of men moving on the island below! If the player characters propose a reasonable plan to avoid capture (such as
hiding), the soldiery will not bother them. However, the city guard will be doubled for the remainder of the adventure (see the Suderham Encounter table), If the player characters have cleverly deceived those at the gate, they will be able to arrange passage at the lake shore below.
If the player characters entered through the caverns that pass under the crater, the secret passageway from room 9 leads under the lake and comes out in a hill near the slums of Suderham.
North of the walled city of Suderham, between the city and its harbor area, is the area known derisively to the locals as “ScumSlum.” Peasant field workers for the farms, non-household slaves, and almost everyone who is not a tradesman, a slaver, or in the militia lives in shabby hovels clus- tered along the harbor road. For a few coins, any of the inhabitants of this area will invite the player characters into their home, beckoning them to move quickly, with dart- ing eyes searching for agents of the slave lords. Copper is the expected coin for these people, silver will bring a very friendly reac- tion, and gold will raise eyebrows: "We don't see much gold here, stranger.”
The following information may be dis- pensed to the players creatively. Preferably it should be in the form of dialogue, with the players pressing for more information on relevant matters. Try to avoid reading the information out in a monologue. The informant's name is Oric, and at 40 years of age he looks like a man of 60; he is worn out by the harsh life of being a peasant farm worker, and has already exceeded the aver- age life expectancy of his kind. Suspicious and curmudgeonly at first, the prospect of the money the player characters are offering will gradually bring out his garrulous good nature; his final suggestion about ambush- ing slave buyers should provide the party with a method of entry into Suderham.
Oric will discuss as much about the city and its rulers as he knows, which is limited to general knowledge about the city: its quarters, the patrols, etc.
According to Oric, Suderham was once only a small fortress, built as a place of last defense by Olarek, self-styled king of the Drachensgrab. He supposedly held a bar- ony in this area. When the humanoids con- quered the Pomarj, Olarek was one of the petty and proud rulers who refused to see the threat. His reward for such foresight was swift and fitting—the humanoids swept through his "kingdom" and his skull became a banner which led their armies. Mysteri- ously, only a few months after his defeat
and death, new workmen began to arrive in Suderham—building the walls of the town that now stands. In a very short time, con- sidering the scope of the project, a new city stood where there had only been a citadel. Then the slave lords arrived on the scene— as if all this had been prepared specifically for them. The remaining subjects of King Olarek fell under their rule—not fully enslaved, but forbidden to leave the valley under pain of death. The slave lords discov- ered the maze of tunnels under the citadel and crater rim where Olarek had disposed of unfortunates not in his favor. They quickly put these tunnels to the same use.
Oric says that while petty crime is toler- ated, anything major is dealt with ruthlessly and with a surprising speed. “It's like they know everything that's happening. They can't be surprised, so nobody can hurt them. There are some who say The Nine are immortal—I don't know about that, but if they can't be surprised or hurt, they're as good as immortal."
Pressed further, Oric says there is a local adage to plug up or block every hole in the ground, to prevent the emergence of giant monsters which live under the surface. He says that the guards at the city gate carefully check passes, and that some have been known to take bribes. This happens rarely, because if caught the head of the bribed guard winds up on a pike decorating the city wall as a motiva- tional tool for the rank and file.
Passes are given only to potential cus- tomers for the thriving slave market. Slaves who work inside the city and peasants who have business within are met at the gate by someone who resides within the city, and are given special passes valid until sun- down. Oric tells you that there have been a number of buyers of slaves through recently; there is probably an auction tomorrow. All buyers are carried in litters from the docks to Suderham's gates; there would be no reaction from the people of the slum if some of these buyers were to meet with an accident.
Slave Buyers’ Caravan
As the long shadows caused by the sur- rounding mountains begin to lengthen into twilight, Oric points out what will probably be the last caravan of slave
buyers for the day; the ferry operators on the dock are closing down. There are three litters, each carried by four strong, unarmored men with wicked-looking scimitars in their belts.
97
The guard/bearers make an effort to resist an attack, but if clearly outmatched they make only a token effort and surrender if given the chance,
There are two men and one woman inside the veiled litters; when attacked they peer out fearfully and try to escape in the confu- sion. Slum inhabitants will prevent their escape should the players be so careless as to allow this. All of the slave buyers are corpu- lent and well-fed, their soft, pale skin indi- cating that years have passed since they have done any real work. Once they learn that you do not plan to kill them, their sniv- eling fear begins to turn to arrogance: "You fools! The slave lords know everything their enemies do! You haven't a chance.”
Among the belongings of the slave buyers are found 100 gold pieces and 300 silver pieces (none in Suderham currency), a letter of credit from a nearby fiefdom good only for the purchase of slaves, and passes identi- fying three privileged guests and 12 body- guards. The loose, flowing clothes are large enough to go over armor, though this dis- guise won't stand up to a close inspection. Oric suggests that halflings and dwarves are rare enough here that any in the group had better be inside the litters so as not to unduly rouse the suspicions of the guards.
Guard/bearers (1st level fighters): AC 10; hp 10; D 3-10; +1 to hit
Suderham!
In Suderham, encounters are checked for once each turn. An encounter occurs on à 1 in 6 chance (46). If an encounter occurs, roll percentage dice to determine who or what is encountered.
Suderham Encounters Dice Roll Encounter (night) 01-05 Assassin 06-10 Bandits
11-25 Beggar
26-30 Cleric
31-45 Drunk
46-50 Ghoul/Ghast 51-70 Guard Patrol* 71-80 Harlot
81-82 Rakshasa 83-88 Slaver** 89-97 Thief
98-00 Wight
Standard Suderham guard patrol; described fully elsewhere. If the player char- acters raised the alarm at the entry to the
valley, the size of all guard patrols will be doubled.
** 1-10 Slavers will be encountered. These will frequently be wealthy, decadent boors with no inclination for combat. They will be interested in any business talk: new sources of slaves, etc.
All other encounters listed above may be determined using the City/Town Encount- ers Explanations section of the Dungeon Masters Guide (pp. 191-194).
Notes on Suderham
As the players approach Suderham from the north, they notice the city wall, the gate, and the corner towers are well maintained. The stone wall is nearly 30 feet high, with 50 foot towers, and the heads and shoulders of armored soldiers can be seen above the bat- tlements. The roadway ends at the main city gate. The outer doors are open, but the far end of the gateway is barred by a massive portcullis and flanked by two sentry posts. Darkness is beginning to settle upon the city as the party nears the gateway.
People: The majority of Suderham's pop- ulation derives from two groups—the origi- nal subjects of King Olarek and the laborers brought in to prepare the slave lords’ stronghold. Neither group are strong sup- porters of the slave lords, finding it far wiser and safer to say nothing and avoid trouble. The remaining population is a wild mixture of humanoids and exotic foreigners.
Buildings: All are one story tall unless otherwise noted. Lighting is by oil lamps, suspended from posts 12 to 14 feet high. The posts are positioned on every street corner and in the middle of each block, thus pro- viding overlapping areas of illumination. Those businesses that are open have two oil lamps in front of them. Thus, the business district is well-lit, while other areas of the city are somewhat darker.
Shops: Shops and places of business, unless otherwise noted, are now closed. They are securely locked up and the propri- etors have retired into their private quarters іп the shops! back rooms, The streets are largely deserted. Shopkeepers are treated as normal humans and will often live with families and/or apprentice laborers. They can offer no aid to the party, and will not answer knocks or calls for assistance by per- sons in the streets. If molested in any way, they first seek to avoid combat or injury, and notify the police patrols if they, their dependents, or their property is abused. None of the townspeople can be threatened into any action, and even those who have
clues to relate know nothing more than that which they tell. The only people who will accept bribes are those especially noted. Others will refuse the money, with fearful glances over their shoulders.
Most people in the city, whether encoun- tered on the streets or in a tavern, will be able to give directions to the shops, other inns, and important buildings like the Arena (3), but not to residences. If questioned con- cerning the Treasury (32) or storage ware- houses, there is a 75% likelihood that they will report the party to a guard patrol after they leave, Directions will be general, locat- ing the quarter of the city the building is in, but nothing more specific. For example: “A map shop? There's one over in the Official Quarter, that's southwest, but I'm not sure where" Other quarters are the Military (northwest), the Wealthy (northeast), and the Thieves' Quarter (southeast).
Taverns: It should be noted that taverns are, more often than not, frequented more by one type of person (or class of character) than others. In these taverns (and the guilds as well, of course), the minority classes are seen as inferior and will not receive a con- vivial welcome. At the Fighting Man's Haven, for example, a cleric or magic-user that enters will probably sit alone or be held up for ridicule by the fighters there. Vio- lence will probably be limited to brawling or throwing the intruder out.
Moneychanger: Like most city-states, Suderham mints its own money and insists that it be used within the city. Anyone attempting to purchase items with non- Suderham money will be directed to the Moneychanger (6). The city charges a 10% tax on exchanged money, and the money- changer adds a tidy 5% profit for himself. If anyone insists on using non-Suderham money or tries to pass anything other than the official money after their first warning, guards will be called. Penalty for possession of unofficial money aíter being warned is confiscation of all money and possessions!
Guard Patrols: Guard patrols on the city walls consist of six soldiers each. They ceaselessly pace the great square formed by the city walls. The positions of the patrols are noted on the map, as is their direction of movement. [f a party or character attempts to scale a section of the wall, the DM should note the relative position of the nearest patrol moving toward that area. Patrols move 60 feet per turn, and see up to 40 feet with the torches they carry. All soldiers on patrol carry whistles with which to sound an alarm, and each tower contains 20 guardsmen and a 3d level sergeant.
98
Wall patrol (6 1st level fighters): AC 5; hp 8 each; #АТ 1; D broadsword 2-8, short composite bow 1-6
Tower guardsmen (20 1st level fighters): AC 5; hp 8 each; #AT 1; D 2-8, bow 1-6
Tower sergeant (3d level fighter): AC 5; hp 18: #AT 1; D 2-8, bow 1-6
Guard patrols in the streets consist of 10 militia police, one of whom will act as a spokesman for the group. Their movement should be checked (as the wall patrols previ- ously described) whenever the party enters a street currently under patrol.
Militia police (10 1st level fighters): AC 4; hp 6 each: #AT 1; D broadswords 2-8
Patrols-always ask to see the passes of a large band of characters (more than four) after dark. If not satisfied with the papers or if the conduct of the characters is suspi- cious, the patrol will seek to disarm them and take them under arrest to the Slave Cells (43). Patrol leaders can each be bribed once to release a party for 200 gp, but will on no account do anything further to aid the party. If attacked, patrols blow their whis- Нез, alerting nearby patrols and allowing warning to be given to the slave lords’ cita- del. A company of 60 footsoldiers will be dispatched in two turns to investigate and quell any disturbance. The company will be led by a 5th level magic-user and a 5th level cleric.
Company of footsoldiers (60 1st level fight- ers): AC 4; hp 8; /AT 1; D broadswords 2-8
Key to Suderham
1. Main Gate
The entrance to this arched gateway is guarded by a massive iron double door (now. open) and a raised portcullis. At the far end of the gateway is a lowered
portcullis, with two armed men on sen- try duty standing before it. Beside each sentry is a single iron door, one set in each side of the gateway.
Each sentry post is maintained by a guard soldier. One of the two will stop the party and ask for their warrants and permits. If these are shown to him in a polite manner he will signal for the portcullis to be raised. If threatened, he will blow his whistle. This will summon 10 more soldiers from each of the two guard rooms.
Guards (10 1st level fighters): AC 4; hp 8 each; #AT 1; D 2-8
As you pass through the main gate and take your first steps into the city, a wiz- ened beggar who had been sitting with his back against a building looks at your group carefully and then hobbles over to you. "Alms for a crippled veteran;' he shouts, rattling the copper pieces in his wooden bowl. As he approaches your litter a sergeant of the guard shouts at him to stop and charges forward, along with two guardsmen. The beggar, with remarkable dexterity, slips a hand inside a litter and silently drops something. “1 was just asking the noble folk for a cop- per or two;' he croaks. "I'm a crippled veteran and there's nothin' wrong with that!" The sergeant strikes the beggar roughly across the face. "You know the law, scum—you can't accost people, you can only wait for them to approach you if they want to waste their copper on dirt like you!" He turns to the litter and says, "A thousand pardons for the intrusion, gentles, but this one won't trouble you again.”
The sergeant and his men take the beggar away under arrest despite any protestations of the party; other onlooking patrols should convince the players that it would be foolish to offer any resistance.
The item that the beggar dropped into the litter is a roughly-carved piece of ivory in the shape of a horse's head—perhaps a chess piece! It actually refers to a tavern (14), the Sign of the White Knight.
2. Guard Towers
These imposing stone structures, built into the city walls, stand about 50 feet
high. There are entrances at ground level and on the walls.
Each tower has three rooms (ground level, wall level, and a roofed fighting plat- form) connected by winding stairways. Dis- tributed throughout each tower will be 20 1st level soldiers and one 3d level sergeant at arms armed with broadswords and short composite bows and wearing chain mail.
Soldiers (20 1st level fighters): AC 5; hp 8 each; #AT 1; D 2-8, bow 1-6)
Sergeant-at-arms (3d level fighter); AC 5; hp 18; #AT 1; D 2-8, bow 1-6
3. Slave Auction Arena
This is a massive, circular coliseum nearly 100 feet in diameter and slightly over 50 feet tall. There are doors leading
to the interior of the structure every 20 feet. These doors are closed, and signs reading "Closed: Keep Out" are posted upon each,
Breaking open one of the locked and barred doors will reveal vast open spaces underneath rows of stone and wooden seat- ing. It resembles conventional stadium con- struction. Numerous passageways lead out to the seats which are arranged in ascending tiers around a central circular auction block, now deserted.
There are 10 guards individually patrol- ling through the arena complex. If the party remains inside the arena for four turns, a guard will surprise them on the fifth turn unless precautions are taken.
Guards (10 1st level fighters): AC 4; hp 8 each; #AT 1; D 2-8 Thieves' Quarter
^.Tavern: The Fighting Man's Haven
This large, slightly run-down looking tavern has a painted sign above each
door depicting a fighter-type in full armor. It is open, and raucous singing comes from within.
The tavern is occupied by 28 human fighters, including four soldiers of the city garrison. Half are 1st level, half are 2d level. They are feeling happy with drink and cheerfully hail any newcomers with a demand that they stay for a drink and a song. The crowd will be annoyed by a refusal, and the tavern bully, Davis, a burly, red-faced fighter will challenge the player with the lowest charisma to a fight. Davis will attempt to overbear, then pummel the character into submission.
Davis (2d level fighter): AC 7; hp 16; #AT 1; D dagger 1-4; SA HtH combat; S 16, D 13
5. Tavern: Sign of the Waltzing Werebear
This large tavern has a painted sign | above each door showing a dancing
werebear cavorting with a bottle in each
paw. It is open, but little noise comes from within.
The tavern is occupied by 34 normal human townspeople who sit at tables and eat or drink with very little conversation. They are not interested in chit-chatting too much with strangers.
6. Moneychanger's Shop
The sign over this establishment shows two pairs of hands exchanging old jew- elry and gold nuggets for clean, shining gold pieces with the arms of Suderham
stamped on both sides: a series of three forearms grasping each other to form a triangular frame for a human figure in chains.
The moneychanger within is a small man with beady, darting eyes. He will exchange gems, jewelry, gold, silver, copper, elec- trum, or platinum for the coin of the realm, subtracting 15% (10% for the official city money changing tax and 5% profit). If any- one threatens him or tries to enter his barred cage, two secret doors behind him will open and four 2d level fighters emerge. If these fighters are attacked, a fifth fighter (who remains hidden in a secret passageway) will escape outside and call the watch for assist- ance, There will never be more than 1,000 gp (in various denominations and forms) here at any one time, as armed guards come by every two hours to transfer any excess to the city treasury,
Fighters (4 2d level): AC 3; hp 16 each; #AT 1; D longsword 1-8, crossbow 1-4
7. Tavern: Sign of the Grimacing Gargoyle
This rectangular-shaped tavern has a painted sign above each door showing a
bound gargoyle having its tail pulled by a swashbuckler. It is open, but quiet.
Only 12 customers, all norma! humans townspeople, are drinking here. They are friendly to strangers, but have nothing of importance to relate.
8. Flophouse
This building is made of cheap wood and plaster. It appears to be very dilapidated
and dirty. From within come muffled snores.
Inside the flophouse on the bare dirt floor sleep six derelict drunkards who are clothed in ragged cast-offs and wrapped in filthy, tattered blankets. A pile of stones and cloth bundles lies in the southeast corner. The der- elicts are very drunk and will not awaken unless roughly disturbed. The bundles con- tain the derelicts’ few belongings, various bits of worthless rubbish. Disturbing them will uncover the hole in the ground the pile was blocking, and three giant rats will
emerge and attack the nearest party mem- ber.
Giant rats (3): AC 7; HD 1/2; hp 4 each; #AT 1; D 1-3 plus chance of disease
9. Food Market Closed.
10. Fish Market Closed.
11. Food Store Closed.
12. House of Ili Repute: Sign of the Mermaid
This building is made of whitewashed stone. Above each door is a painted sign
depicting a mermaid chased by a mer- man. Noise of merriment from within can be heard.
This bawdy house is in the midst of a boisterous party. Nine men, normal human townsfolk, and 12 women in scant attire are drinking and singing in the main room. They will be delighted to see newcomers and will ask the party to stay for the fun, but will not be offended if refused.
13. House of III Repute: Sign of the Rose
This building is constructed of wood and is badly in need of paint. Above the door
is a painted cluster of red roses. All is quiet within.
Inside the doorway is a small room with a corridor visible beyond. The madam reclines upon a couch and sips from a small goblet. Other comfortable furniture is arranged along the walls, and upon a pol- ished wooden table near the couch sit sev- eral full decanters containing various colors of liquids.
The madam will languidly welcome the party and make praising remarks about the robustness of the fighters or the handsome- ness of the clerics. She will wave toward the hallway and announce that they may go and choose what room they will—all her girls are presently unoccupied. When the characters check, they discover most of the rooms to be normal bawdyhouse rooms, each containing a large bed, other furniture, and a young, pretty, half-dressed woman. One room, however, is empty of women, and under the bed is a trap door entrance to a secret passage leading to the catacombs. The passage resembles a section of the city's sewer system,
The madam is an active supporter of the slave lords, keeping the room with the secret passage unoccupied at all times. The passage is maintained as a private entrance and exit for the Nine. One is sometimes spotted going in but not coming out, which is what the bartender at the Sign of the White Knight alludes to in one of his pieces of information. The madam will notify the slave lords via messenger if any "customers" happen to discover the room's secret; she will investigate if any are gone for too long.
14. Inn: Sign of the White Knight
This large, two-storied building is con- structed of oak and limestone. Above the door is a wooden sign with a painting of a knight in gleaming white armor on a white stallion, with a pennon on his lance trailing in the wind. The inn is open for business, and the sounds of people eating and drinking come from within.
The door opens onto the dining room of the inn. A stairway on the north side appears to lead to the private rooms on the upper story. There are many sets of tables and benches, half of which are occupied by normal human travelers and merchants, busily engaged in having their dinners. On the east side of the dining room is the bar counter, behind which works an over- weight, sweating bartender. If the bartender is given 10 gold pieces (or more) he will smile, and with a wink say, "Not all who
100
recline may be resting;" for 50 gold pieces or more he will add, whispering, "Learn from the knowledge that never dies" If he is offered more than 60 gold pieces and pressed for more information he will glance about worriedly, then whisper, "Listen! The Nine have ears everywhere! АП сап say is that sometimes they've been seen going into places where you wouldn't expect them— and they don't come out! Now good eve- ning to you, and be off!"
The bartender's various clues refer to the bawdy house (area 13) in the Thieves' Quar- ter and to the sage and his books (area 29) in the Official Quarter. He will actively encourage bribes if possible.
15. Armor Shop
This is a noisy place, with a huge forge in the background and many workers ham- mering and polishing as they create fine weapons and armor. Most armor types listed in the Players Handbook are available at the listed cost plus 10%.
16. Gambling Hall: Sign of the Bouncing Bugbear
This seedy-looking whitewashed build- ing is open and much noise can be heard
from within. Above the doors are painted signs showing a bugbear tum- bling head over heels down a hill.
There are 24 human townsmen inside, obviously members of the lower class, who are divided into four groups, each busily playing cards or throwing dice. They are sit- ting around worn tables on crude wooden benches, and almost all are at least half drunk. Newcomers will be invited to join a game and try their luck,
Any player wishing to gamble can do so. The DM may use the gambling rules set forth in the Dungeon Masters Guide for spe- cific games, or simply use an abstract, dice- rolling system. The games pay twice the amount wagered by the player, but the player will only win 25% of the time.
17. Thieves' Guild
This squat, dirty-looking building seems to be deserted.
The Guildhall has been closed down recently by the city constables, though the local thieves are preparing to establish a new secret guild hall soon at another location.
18. The Assassins' Guild
This small stone building has no win-
dows in its walls. Its walls and doors are marked with coded words and signs.
An assassin or thief will recognize the signs identifying this building as the assas- sins' guild. The doors are locked and double-barred (open only on roll of 1-2 on 146 if an attempt is made by characters whose combined Strength is 72 or more).
Characters may, by searching, discover the secret panel in the floor; they must suc- cessfully avoid a deadly reloading poison needle trap to get the panel open. The secret passageway leads below to the functioning offices of the guild, where poisons are con- cocted and sold, contracts and records are kept, etc. For a fee, assassins can find out where potential victims live, how they are guarded, what kind of treasure they are known to have, and so forth; the informa- tion will never be 100% accurate, but the greater the fee the higher the likelihood of accuracy.
The guild will not provide any informa- tion concerning the catacombs ("impassable sewers filled with rats"), and will report anyone questioning them on these matters to Nerelas the Assassin, who functions as the local guildmaster—and as one of the slave lords.
Membership in the guild is required in Suderham; anyone doing freelance assassi- nations is soon visited by two messengers in black cloaks, who explain the two options available: join the guild or die. Dues are based on the level of the member: at 1st level, the assassin pays 50% of any fees (or treasure won while adventuring) to the guild; at 2d level, 40%; at 3d level, 30%; at 4th level, 20%; at Sth or greater level, 10%. This compensates for the greater fees and treasure received at higher levels (from the guild’s point of view!). Woe be to the assas- sin who welches or doesn't pay the full amount, for the guild is notorious for some- how knowing the loot assassins return with —it is said their eyes and ears are every- where! Being a guild member does have its benefits, though. Aside from being able to purchase poisons and have special weapons and tools constructed, the guild offers a safe haven where a hunted assassin can stay until things cool off. The guild also offers (for a fee) plans to many of the buildings in town, which can help members to carefully plan their next jobs.
19. Tavern: Denhow's Pub ‘п’ Grub
This building has been rather shabbily constructed and maintained. Its roof is made of thatch, not tiles. Most of the
wood appears worm-eaten and decay- ing. Its name has been painted in scrawled letters over each door. It is extremely noisy within.
There are 36 lower-class human towns- men and women inside, all drinking prodi- gious amounts of ale and wine. The room is very crowded and the party members will be subjected to a great deal of pushing and shoving should they seek to move about inside.
There is a human cutpurse loitering near the east doorway. He will make his way over to the party if they appear at either door. Ayares will attempt to pick the pock- ets of one of the party but fail, and the attempt will be noticed by the would-be vic- tim. If menaced by a party member Ayares will worm his way through the crowd to a table in the northwest corner where four brigand friends will help him fight. If a melee breaks out, some revelers will clear out of the bar so that there is space to fight, while the others watch and cheer for the winning side.
Ayares the cutpurse (3d level thief): AC 7; hp 14; #AT 1; D shortsword 1-6; AL NE
Ayares's friends (4 1st level fighters): AC 7; hp 6 each; #AT 1; D shortsword 1-6
20. Blacksmith's Shop Closed.
21. Alchemist's Shop Closed.
22. Scribe's Ship Closed.
25. Cartwright's Shop Closed.
24. Tavern: Sign of the Magic Missile
This small building is notably clean and neat for this lower-class section of Suderham. It is constructed of natural red stone, and above each door is a painted sign showing a sparkling arrow
101
surrounded by cabalistic symbols. There
is light coming under the door but very little noise.
Inside the tavern are six magic-users, one 3d, two 2d, and three Ist level. They are all seated at the same long table and enjoying a light meal and conversation. They extend a friendly greeting to others of their profes- sion but disdainfully ignore, as much as possible, all other character classes. Official Quarter 25. Lumber Warehouse
Closed.
26. Farming Tools and Equipment Storage
Closed.
27. Nail Warehouse Closed.
28. Lumber Warehouse Closed.
29. Maps and Charts Library
This small building is rather dull and nondescript. Though it appears at first to be as deserted as the other buildings on
this block, a light is shining under the door from within.
If the players knock and request audi- ence, a tall, bearded sage will open the door and invite the party in. Inside are row after row of bookshelves covered with books, maps, and scrolls. A desk and chair are near the doorway, near which burns a lantern. The desk is covered with ink stains, half- finished maps, and piles of loose papers.
The sage will assist the party by giving directions and/or maps to any place in the city. He has no maps for the underground! For 100 gp he will say, "Where those that bear us reside, and give the party an art book entitled The Illumination of the Rose. The message refers to the stables (44) in the Military Quarter, the book to the red-light district and the Sign of the Rose bawdy house (13) in the Thieves' Quarter.
30. Grain Warehouse Closed.
32. Treasury
This enormous square building is made of solid stone, and entry is restricted to a single, closed iron-bound door behind an
iron portcullis. There are two sentry posts flanking the doorway, in which are stationed two soldiers.
The soldiers sternly command any loi- terers to move on. If menaced, they sound their whistles or shout to alert the nearby patrols and the guards within. Through the protected doorway, a 10-foot corridor leads to another iron bound door, securely barred and locked. Beyond this is the actual trea- sury complex, a warehouse of small 10 foot x 10 foot x 10 foot iron vaults arranged in clusters of four, forming narrow aisles around them. A double strength guard detachment (20 soldiers plus one sergeant) is always posted here; they have a small room in the southeast corner in which they spend their time gambling, but they will be alerted if any trouble breaks out. The iron treasure vaults are protected by magic mouth alarms and sealed with intricate trap and lock mechanisms built into their doors. Each vault is double trapped; first by a needle coated with a paralytic agent, second by sleep gas, 20 foot radius (both require sav- ing throws vs. Paralyzation). There is no chance the second trap will be detected by a thief unless the thief again tries to find traps after dealing with the first trap. Further, due to the complexity of the lock, a thief will have only half the normal chance to open a vault after the traps have been passed. Each vault is lined in lead to prevent magical spells from penetrating inside.
Specific treasure contained within the building is as follows: 75,000 copper pieces; 65,000 silver pieces; 50,000 gold pieces; 20,000 electrum pieces; and 15,000 plati- num pieces. There are small gems and jew- elry worth 170,000 gold pieces. Treasure is scanned for magic, and any found is appro- priated by the slave lords, but occasionally something is confiscated and slips through the cracks in the system. In this case a rather ordinary-looking ring is act ially a ring of regeneration. The vial of mexucine for Dame Gold's brother is not present here, however!
Soldiers (20 1st level fighters): AC 4; hp 8; #АТ 1; D broadsword 2-8 33. Cloth Warehouse Closed.
34. Fighters’ Guild
The building is closed and deserted at this time.
35. Temple of the Earth Dragon
This tall and ornate building is fashioned from colored marble and highly polished
woodwork. It appears to be deserted at this time.
The temple complex is unoccupied except fora 1st level cleric who is moving about the inside dusting and cleansing the holy objects in the various chambers.
36. Cloth Warehouse
Closed.
37. Fruits and Preserved Meat Storage
Closed.
38. Oils Warehouse Closed.
39. Lumber Warehouse Closed.
40. Stone and Brick Warehouse Closed.
41. Leather Warehouse Closed.
42. Furs Warehouse Closed.
Military Quarter 43. Slave Cells
This stone building is long and sprawl- ing, without windows or adornment.
Inside the building are many rows of 10 foot x 10 foot x 10 foot cells, most contain- ing one or more slaves. Altogether, there are 80 cells, imprisoning a total of 90 female and 125 male human slaves. This is where char- acters arrested by the guards are brought. Slavery is the usual punishment for all but the most trivial misdemeanors. The cell keeper, a fat merchant named Samovar, is in his office near the entrance, filling out reports. The other laborers have gone for
102
the day, but Samovar knows there are always patrols in the outside streets should the need for assistance arise.
Currently imprisoned here are Dame Gold and other guests taken from her estate. They have been wretchedly used and will not be immediately recognizable to the player characters. However, they instantly know the PCs.and clamor for release. As much as he would like to, Samovar will not accept a bribe for their release—unless the player characters can pay a lot and make him appear totally innocent.
If released, Dame Gold and the others want to accompany the player characters anywhere they go, being terrified of Suderham. However, if the player charac- ters can provide clothing and some money, they agree to rendezvous with the player characters at some other place, If the char- acters fail to arrive, Dame Gold and the oth- ers will be recaptured and will tell how the player characters freed them.
Also in the building is the beggar who gave the ivory chess piece to the characters. The characters can also attempt to buy his freedom. Samovar the cell keeper will mut- ter about this being "highly irregular, but will have no qualms about releasing some- one on punishment detail, The price will be high, however, since the guards who brought him in will also demand a share of the ransom. Samovar will ask 200 silver pieces but will grudgingly settle for 100, The beggar will be grateful, staying with the player characters. Once alone, he will ask knowingly if they were "sent. If they answer yes, he will freely answer questions asked him. However, if they ask things he thinks they should know (such as "Sent by who?"), he will immediately clam up.
The beggar, actually a thief named Deeb, is suffering from a double-cross. He believes that he is in the employ of Edralve, one of the Nine. Under what he thinks are her instructions, he has been guiding the player characters to the catacombs of the slave lords. He is not to let the player characters know of her involvement. He doesn't know what her game is, but the twisted nature of the plot appeals to his character. Besides, Edralve (as she is wont to do) has made other promises, highly attractive to Deeb.
That is what he believes, In reality, he has been duped by Stalman Klim and his agents. The orders Deeb follows do not come from Edralve; they are the plots of Stalman Klim. Poor Deeb has been magically tricked into believing he has met and dealt with Edralve. Under any type of examination (including magical) he will believe this false vision.
This suits Klim's purpose (the destruction of Edralve) perfectly. Deeb (Sth level thief): AC 6; MV 12"; hp 22;
#AT 1; D by weapon; AL NE; backstab x3; Dexterity 18 for thieving abilities
44. Stables
The long rows of the city stablery are easily identifiable, for there is no mistak- ing their distinctive shape and construc-
tion. The doors are open, but there seem to be no customers in the immediate area.
There is one stableboy inside, sweeping out old straw from the main walk, If given 50 gp he will whisper, “There is a secret pas- sage! It is in the rows of rogue!” He will not elaborate. This refers to the red-light district in the Thieves’ Quarter.
45, 46, 47. Officers’ Quarters
These are a series of interconnected build- ings with guards posted at each outside entrance, one at each doorway. These three buildings are the living quarters of the garri- son officers. Access is limited to officers and those with official business bearing the appropriate passes. The buildings are occu- pied at the moment by 20 sergeants (3d level), five lieutenants (6th level), and one captain (8th level), all of whom are chiefly engaged in eating dinner in the various din- ing rooms.
48. Garrison Armory
This large stone building has a guard posted at each entrance.
Most of the garrison's spare weapons are stored here. There are vast quantities of arrows, bows, swords, spears, suits of armor, and other tools of war.
49, 50. Barracks
These two-story complexes are made of stone and individual soldiers may be fre- quently seen entering or departing.
These interconnected buildings house the bulk of the city garrison, though there are many other warriors also on permanent assignment inside the slave lords' citadel. At the moment, there are 600 soldiers inside the barracks, of whom 100 are experienced fighters (2d level). Trespassers who are not
members of the garrison or on official busi- ness will be roughly shown to the exit.
Wealthy Quarter 51. Wizards' Guild
This building is built from the finest stone available, and is roofed with fine
red and blue tile. There are strange mys- tic symbols inscribed on the door.
Magic-users in the party will be able to identify the building as the guildhall of their
profession. Naturally, the door is wizard
locked and a hidden door keeper has a guards and wards spell in a ring should non- members attempt to force their way in. Members of the guild are allowed to use the research library and facilities here, as well as the dormitory facilities. Membership is 100 gp per month plus any material expenses incurred, plus repairs to any areas that are damaged by less-than-successful experiments. Non-member magic-users will be allowed in the guild hall, and will be allowed to sleep there at 20 gp per night, but will not be permitted to use any of the research facilities. Non-magic-users will not be allowed to enter under any circum- stances.
52. Residence
This is the home of a prosperous mer- chant.
53. Wainwright's Shop Closed.
54. Residence
This is the comfortable home of a wealthy cleric.
55. Jeweller's Shop
Closed, Inside the shop, in a back room, is а hired security guard. He will attack a single intruder, but in the face of a large party, will slip out a back door to alert a patrol. Hidden behind a secret door in a back room is a solid iron strongbox that is 4 feet square and weighs 500 pounds. Locked in it are 10 pieces of fine jewelry, 28 rough gems of various types, and five pounds each of unworked bars of silver and gold.
Security guard (3d level fighter): AC 7; hp 25; ZAT 1; D longsword 1-8
103
56. Moneylender's Shop
Closed. There is no loose cash on the premises, the moneylender having all his accounts transferred to the city treasury each day for safekeeping.
57. Residence
This is the home of a retired and wealthy sea merchant.
58. Blacksmith's Shop
Closed.
59. Slave Lords’ Stronghold
Behind a 10-foot-tall stone wall can be seen the topmost stories and battlements of the citadel of the nine slave lords. The wall is patrolled by stern-faced guards.
The only way into the stronghold is through the double-portcullised gate on the northern wall. Four guards stand beside this gateway.
The four guards at the entrance to the slave lords’ compound are all 2d level fight- ers. They sharply order away all who approach too closely. There are a further 10 1st level guards on each side of the com- pound wall, armed with chain mail, short composite bows, and broadswords.
Guards (2d level fighters): AC 4; hp 16 each; Chain mail and shield; /AT 1; D 2-8 broadsword
Guards (1st level fighters): AC 5; hp 8; #AT 1; D 2-8 broadsword
Between the wall and the actual fortified headquarters of the slave lords stretches an open courtyard. It is covered with close-cut grass but contains no cover or concealment. There are four minotaur lizards in the court- yard, one on each side. They have been spe- cially bred and trained to guard the courtyard and possess a dim intelligence that allows them to be ordered and con- trolled by the soldiers on the wall. Upon command they will attack any living thing within the courtyard, and will fight to the death when in combat, being deterred by neither food nor fire,
Minotaur lizards (4): AC 5; HD 8; hp 48 each; #AT 3; D 2-12/2-12 claws, 3-18 bite
In addition; there is a further detachment of 160 Ist level and 40 2d level soldiers which can be called upon if needed from
inside the slave lords' citadel itself. These will be commanded by a 7th level magic- user and an 8th level cleric, and will respond to any attack within one turn, The rest of the city garrison can be summoned within two turns by means of a flickering light sig- nal flashed from the rooftop battlements of the citadel. 60. Residence
This is the home of a wealthy mercenary captain. 61. Residence
This is the home of a retired alchemist.
62. Tailor's Shop Closed.
63. Cobbler's Shop Closed.
64. House of Ill Repute: The Wild Cat
This large, ornately-constructed build- ing has only one entrance, above which is a painted sign showing an arched cat. Noise of revelry comes from within. Leaning nonchalantly against the build-
ing near the doorway are five young men. They are wearing bulky cloth tunics and short cloaks of rich fabric, and long sword scabbards hang at their sides.
The five men are rakes wearing concealed leather doublets. When the party nears them, they call out in sarcastic and insolent terms, hurling the vilest of insults upon the party members. They try to goad one or two characters into fighting with them. If they are ignored, one will seek to start a brawl by jumping the first party member to turn his back on them. If attacked by the entire party, or severely pressed in any other way, two of the rakes flee but the others fight until down to 8 hit points, at which time they try to surrender and save their lives. All five rakes have purses of 20 gp and 20 sp concealed within their doublets.
Inside the bawdy house are 14 women and nine townsmen in the main parlor, gam- bling, drinking, singing, and otherwise making merry. They will not hear a fight outside over their own din.
Rakes (5 8th level fighters): AC 7; hp 40 each; #AT 1; D 1-8
65. Tavern: The Clever Cudgel
This building presents a rich and well- kept exterior. It is obviously a successful establishment. Above each door is a painted sign depicting an animated quar-
terstaff beating a halfling. There is the sound of singing and the rhythmic thumping of mugs coming from the inte- rior.
Inside the tavern are 26 townsmen and six off-duty soldiers. Only the soldiers are armed with weapons (broadswords) other than daggers. The townsmen are obviously men of some means, for they are well- dressed and inclined to stoutness. All are singing a local ballad and beating time with their mugs. The men will happily converse with strangers if they buy the drinks (a round costs 2 gp).
66. Residence
This is the city home of a country squire. He is staying here while conducting finan- cial business.
67. Residence
This is the home of a prosperous trader.
68. Abandoned Residence
This dwelling appears to be an inhabited home, but it is actually deserted, although still fully furnished inside. Under a rug in the master bedroom is a door covering the entrance to a secret passage leading to the underground. The passage appears to have been built to resemble a section of the city's sewer system.
Although all the clues in this module point toward the other secret entrance at the Sign of the Rose (area 13), it is remotely pos- sible that the party might stumble onto this passageway. If this happens, it is quite all right to let them use this passage. After all, luck is part of the game, too! This second passageway exists because the slave lords never allow themselves to be backed into a corner—they always want more than one way into (and out of!) any place they go.
Suderham General Encounters
The following encounters can occur at the DM's option. They should occur sometime when the player characters are moving about the city searching for clues. These encounters, as a rule, do not aid or assist the
104
player characters in any way—indeed, most make situations worse for the player char- acters.
The Victim
This encounter will preferably be in the Thieve's Quarter, but may occur anywhere. It is also preferable to use this encounter after the party decides to split into two or more groups (if they do). If the party splits, make sure to physically separate the players into their groups so that one won't know what the other is doing. Randomly select one of the groups to have this encounter.
Just as the group rounds the corner, they hear a familiar voice cry out in pain from behind them. There, stumbling out of the shadows, is one of the other party members! (As referee, select the party member you feel will gain the most trust and sympathy of the group.) He appears to be injured severely. Staggering to his friends, he says they were attacked by a large band of thugs only a little distance away. He then grasps one of the player characters and collapses with a faint murmur. “Help me...”
The injured party member is actually a rakshasa. His plan is to send most of the group off on a wild goose chase, leaving him alone with one character, who will be easier to overcome than a group. He warns the others to be careful—the brigands may be using a poison that weakens. He caught a blow and now feels as if he can hardly move. He suggests someone remain with him until he recovers and then they will both catch up. If all characters in the group want to leave, he will lag behind, hoping to draw one other character back to be attacked.
If the rakshasa is injured and has 20 or fewer hit points remaining, he will attempt to escape by casting invisibility upon him- self; or, in desperation, by using his illusion powers to look like one of the party or one of the city guard. If any cleric makes an attempt to cast a bless spell, the rakshasa will fly into a rage, stopping at nothing to slaughter that character before the spell can be finished. The actual shape of the rak- shasa will not be seen unless his magical illu- sion is dispelled or the creature is slain.
If the party does not split up into two or more smaller groups, the rakshasa will assume the form of one of the guests from Dame Gold's party. He will appear to be wounded. In this guise he will attempt to convince someone in the party to escort him to a safe place. The idea, of course, is to allow him an easy attack. If successful, he
will return as that party member, hoping to continue his sneak attacks. If all else fails; the rakshasa will attack the rearmost mem- ber of the marching order, and will try to escape. If the rakshasa is killed, it will be seen that he is wearing an intricate necklace of Vedic design, made of gold and platinum and set with five rubies; the total value of the necklace is 8,000 gold pieces.
Rakshasa: AC -4; MV 15"; HD 7; hp 50; FAT 3; D 1-3/1-3/2-5; SA illusion, esp, immune to 7th level and lower spells, weapon +3 or better to hit; AL LE
The Wind of Covetousness
As you start down the street, the gentle breeze which had been coming from behind you dies. A new wind, with a strange but not unpleasant smell, gently
wafts toward you. In the light of the oil street lamps, you see and hear two men and a woman arguing loudly over pos- session of a ring.
At this point have the players each roll a D20: those rolling above their Wisdom score have failed a saving throw and will be affected by the Wind of Covetousness, a strange. magical breeze which can occur anywhere. Those affected strongly desire the ring which the townspeople are arguing over, feeling strongly justified in some strange way that the ring should be theirs. The townspeople in turn covet belongings of the characters, with the same convictions in their beliefs. Affected characters begin to eye the belongings of other characters, and so on. If the player characters do not start a brawl the townspeople will. However, townspeople will fight to subdue, not using weapons unless they are attacked in the same manner.
Characters who make their initial save vs. the Wind feel a strong desire to possess the ring, but they will be able (with a struggle) to fight it off and act freely. These characters may draw affected characters away by throwing a coveted object some short dis- tance, which the affected characters will fol- low. If the characters can be led around a corner which is blocked by a building, the Wind will lose its hold over the character. Otherwise an affected character will remain so until two game turns have passed (and the Winds move on), or until the character has been rendered unconscious due to sub- dual combat damage.
Tudwill the Magistrate
Coming down the street toward you is a tall but very burly man with an officious air. Behind him trail four guardsmen. His neutral expression turns into a smile as he sees you and moves to intercept. "A
word with you, gentle folk, if I may,” the man says. “I am Tudwill, the Exalted Magistrate of the Council of the Nine, blessed be their names, and I'm afraid you have inadvertently broken some city ordinances.
Tudwill does in fact serve as a judge in trivial matters of law, but all matters of import are routed to more important magis- trates. He earns the majority of his income by catching people in the act of committing minor infractions and collecting the fines at that time; to put it another way, he issues tickets and then "fixes" those same tickets. He is incredibly inventive at twisting the actual law to cover whatever circumstances are around, and his fines vary by what he judges the accused actually has (usually 5096-7595 of what the victim has at the time).
Naturally, none of this makes Tudwill a beloved public figure and normal towns- people go to great lengths to avoid him. Still, he is a bit of a comic figure—a corrupt petty bureaucrat, all pomp and air. Unfor- tunately, he must be taken seriously, for he does have the power to imprison offenders in the slave pens, and the offender might be sold before he comes to trial! Charges he might bring against the party include: more than four people in a group after dark (if applicable); possession of non-Suderham currency (if they haven't been to the money- changer): resisting an officer of the law (if they argue about their guilt); possession of possibly forged passes (whether they are real or not); public intoxication (whether they are sober or not); failure to wipe feet before crossing the street; failure to cross street at the proper point; failure to render assistance to an officer of the law; obstructing the path of an officer of the law; etc., etc. Tudwill will settle for a total of 40 gold pieces from the party, though he will try for more.
Taliesin the Bard
Walking down the street you hear the haunting strains of a ballad of doomed
love roll forth in a rich baritone voice accompanied by a lute. When the bard
105
finishes his song, the dozen or so bystanders erupt into deserved applause. You, too, have felt your heart strings tugged by this man’s magical voice. His dark eyes wander over the crowd as he turns, acknowledging the applause with
nods. He faces your party, makes eye contact, and nods slightly in your direc- tion. There seems to be a mysterious magnetic power about him. But, with his performance done, he gathers his money and disappears down the street.
Later in the night, when the player char- acters are in a tavern, Taliesin will reappear. Casually approaching the player charac- ters, he will draw them into a quiet corner for drinks and discussion.
Taliesin is a thoughtful, sensitive fellow, but what has happened to him lately he does not fully understand. Many months ago he felt compelled to set out on a long journey. He did not know where he was going or why, but remembering the teachings of his druidic master, he went. His old master had often talked of the spirit dream sent by the Earth Spirit, and perhaps that was what this was. At any rate, he followed the call.
At first, as he traveled, his wanderings were random, vague, and incomplete, But as weeks passed, his footsteps became more and more deliberate, finally bringing him to this place. And on his journey he had dreams—dreams of fire, churning seas, darkness, and blood. In these dreams he saw the faces of the player characters and knew that he had to find them. But, now that he has you, he doesn't know what he is supposed to do,
Clerics who magically investigate Taliesin have no trouble detecting a strange aura about him—he is somehow special. How- ever, nothing more will be revealed. He wants to help and will answer all the ques- tions of the player characters. At this point, you must decide how much he knows and how much you want to reveal to your play- ers. If they are having a difficult time finding where to go next and what to do, allow Taliesin to be well-informed about the slave lords and their movements. He will be able to give them several solid clues about where to go and what to look for. If the player charac- ters have had successes already, have Taliesin suggest that things here may run deeper than expected—that some thing or some power as yet unsuspected is present here. There is a greater adventure here than meets the eye, one that continues into Queen of the Spiders.
The Catacombs
of Suderham
At this point, the party has either found the passageway intended (from the bawdy house, 13) or accidentally found the other passage (from the abandoned residence, 68). Whichever passage is found, the party will follow a 10-foot-wide corridor of worked stone. A dwarf will be able to tell that it was constructed less than 15 years ago and is definitely not part of the sewage system. Torches or other light sources will be required unless otherwise specified. The corridor leads the party into encounter area 1.
Key to the Catacombs
1. Guardian Arca
This roughly hexagonal room was obvi- ously once part of the city's sewer sys- tem. The carved ceiling, 20 feet high, is coated with a smooth deposit of lime- stone, and moisture clings to every sur-
face in the area. In the center of the room stands a giant humanoid figure. The room's dim light, supplied by а feebly burning torch, gleams off the creature's metallic hide.
The chamber's guardian is actually a poorly made flesh golem with hundreds of polished iron plates attached to its flesh, giving the creature an improved AC and more fearsome aspect.
When the party enters the area the golem will raise its arms in a warning gesture and shout in a garbled voice, “Flee now, or 1 shall breathe poison death upon you all!" If the party remains in the area longer than one turn (or attacks the unmoving golem) the golem will engage the party in melee, selecting his targets randomly. Once the golem has begun to attack it will pursue the party to the death. The door on the west wall is concealed behind a thin layer of lime- stone but can be found by any party mem- ber searching for a door.
Golem: AC 4; MV 8"; HD 9; hp 35; #AT 2; D 1-10; immune to all spells except fire or cold, which slow the golem to half-speed for 2-12 rounds; non-magical weapons may strike the golem for half damage, due to its poor construction
2. Fit Trap
Asthe party moves down this corridor, a 10 foot x 10 foot pit (7 feet deep) sud- denly opens under the first rank of char- acters.
Immediately, a large section of stone on the north wall of the corridor slides down, revealing a 1-foot-long brass noz- zle from which whooshing sounds emerge.
The characters who fell land on soft sand and take no damage. The DM should get immediate reactions from the players. Each character may take one action before a jet of flame shoots out from point a, covering the entire corridor up to the pit. There is enough time between the nozzles appearance and the jet of flame for any character to jump into the pit if desired. Characters in the pit take no damage from the flames; characters in the corridor above or north of the pit take 12 points of damage (save versus Breath Weapons for half damage). A character in the south section of the corridor (one who has jumped over the pit, for example) will suffer no damage.
This trap is a precaution of the slave lords against one of them being captured and forced to show the way in. Should the golem have failed to slay the enemy, the slave lord would walk ahead, fall into the pit, and the captor would be roasted. Mean- while, the slave lord would open a secret door in the wall of the pit (which can be opened only with a special ring that only the slave lords have) and would escape to the Council Chamber (room 9).
5. The Killer Mimic's Lair
The entrance to this 40 foot x 40 foot x 20 foot high room is on the north wall. There are two doors across the room on
the south wall, one to the west, the other to the east. Also near the south wall is a bulging wooden chest.
The door on the east side of the south wall is false. The chest is really part of a killer mimic that is lying on the floor awaiting prey. The first character to step 10 feet into the marked area will be stuck fast, unable to move his or her feet. The mimic will then attack the trapped victim by extending blobs of its own form and using them as sticky. bludgeons. The creature will not reveal how much of the floor is actually part of itself. Therefore any character moving
106
over the marked area to help the first victim will also become stuck to the floor. If the mimic rolls 4 over the number it needs to hit, the monster has successfully disabled its victim's weapon arm, preventing attacks by that character. The only way to free the glued party members is to slay the mimic. Beneath the creature are 300 gp, four topaz gems (500 gp each), and a ring of warmth.
Killer mimic: AC 7; MV 3”; HD 9; hp 43; #AT 1; D 3-12; SA glue
4. The Hell Hounds' Hideout
This long corridor is illuminated by blaz- ing torches set in wall sconces at inter- vals of 10 feet along the passage walls.
Hot drafts of air blow down the corridor and the floor grows warmer and warmer as you advance.
As the party nears the dual secret doors, the temperature of the walls, ceiling, and floor become blisteringly hot. Although no damage will be sustained, the entire group of characters will be -1 to hit and lose one armor class because of their intense discom- fort. As the party passes the hidden com- partments, the secret doors silently slide open and a hell hound emerges from each alcove. They attack spellcasters exclusively until all are dead (breathing 50% of the time).
Both of the hell hounds wear thick leather collars studded with gems and long, wicked spikes. The spikes are poisoned. Unless great care is taken removing the collars (this must be stated by the player doing so) there is a 50% chance the character will acciden- tally prick himself on one of the poisoned spikes (save vs. Poison or take 20 points of damage). Each collar contains three fire opals worth 750 gp each. A character who tries to use the poisoned spikes as weapons must check each round he or she handles them.
Hell hounds (2): AC 4; MV 12”; HD 5; hp 30,25; #AT 1; D 1-10, breathe 5; SA Breathe fire
5. Minotaur Menace a. Bolt from the Dark
As you round the corner into another
corridor, a huge crossbow bolt flies out of the darkness up ahead.
The bolt (shot by the minotaur described in 5c) will be aimed at one of the party mem- bers in the first two ranks (determined ran- domly), and causes 1-12 points of damage if it hits. The bolt is roughly 3 feet long and 1 inch thick.
The heat from the torches and walls of the previous passage blur infravision, but heavy receding footfalls and the sound of a door slamming can be heard.
b. Ambush
Depending upon the choice of direction the party will arrive at one of these three points before reaching 5c. When the charac- ters reach one of these locations another large quarrel (as 5a) zips out of the darkness at the lead member of the party. A character who has the chance to use infravision will see a larger than man-sized figure fleeing around the corner.
c. Minotaur's Lair
This room (15 foot ceiling) is lit by small pots of glowing coals set around the edge of the wall. Carved into the walls are vivid scenes of human suffering— battles, slavery, and so on—all rendered
artistically and in fine detail. In one cor- ner of the room there is a large pile of bones and meat scraps. Next to this pile isa minotaur in some kind of lacquered scale mail armor. He is holding a large crossbow,
The minotaur will retreat to this area and await the characters after firing on the party at points a and b. The moment a character enters the room the minotaur will shoot another giant crossbow bolt, then drop that weapon and pick up his battle axe +2. He will attack the strongest fighters first. The minotaur knows the labyrinth well, and may move through its corridors to circle behind pursuers or lure them into the cross- bow traps (5e).
The minotaur carries 50 pp in a sack at his belt. His axe is so heavy that only fighters with a Strength of 16 or better can wield it. The armor is useless as is the mammoth crossbow; both are simply too large for mere humans to use.
Minotaur: AC 2; MV 12"; HD 6 *3; hp 33; K AT 2; D crossbow 1-12, axe 7-14, bite 1-4, or gore 2-8
d. Minotaur Hoard
Scattered within this room are 400 ep, three aquamarine gems worth 250 gp each, a pouch (dust of disappearance, one use), zA an especially well preserved human skull.
e. Crossbow Traps
Each of these locations is trapped. As soon as a character enters a trigger area (marked with a “T”) a crossbow bolt will shoot out from a small hole in the wall (use the minotaur’s “to hit" roll) at one of the party for 2-7 points of damage. If the proper 10-foot section of floor (the trigger square) is searched, the pressure trigger of the trap will be discovered and can be easily avoided.
f. Perilous Portal
The floor, ceiling, and walls of this area are made of some kind of dull, tarnished metal. Occasionally, large drops of
water fall from the moisture covered ceil- ing, striking the party below. In the east wall at the corner is a tall metal door cov- ered with a strange, angular script.
The script can only be deciphered by a thief or by a magic-user with a comprehend languages spell. It reads, "Danger—No Entry.” This door is a one-way door that can only be opened from the other side, If the door is checked for traps, an elf, half-elf, or a thief may find the braided copper wire hidden under a dull flap of metal foil, (This chance is 2 in 6 for elves and half-elves, 4 in 6 for thieves.) Otherwise, the first character who touches the door will take a massive jolt of electricity for 24 points of (save vs. Breath Weapons for half damage).
The wire leads to a concealed compart- ment in the wall. This compartment con- tains a sealed glass bottle with a copper rod through its stopper. The jar is
wrapped with metal foil and has another rod attached to the outside of it. The copper wire is attached to the outside rod, while another wire runs from the inside rod into the wall.
This is a Leyden jar, a primitive battery. It has only one charge (24 points of damage). If the party has not already discharged it, the thief can discharge it safely by a success-
ful attempt to “remove traps.”
107
6. Cunning Gelatinous Cubes
The air in this chamber is foul and cling- ing. A thick translucent slime covers the
floor and trails out along the passage at the far end of the chamber.
As soon as the first rank of the party walks onto the 10 foot x 20 foot area (marked by the dotted lines) a 1-foot-thick slab of stone tilts, spilling them into a pit on top of a gelatinous cube Characters in the second rank must save vs. Paralyzation to avoid falling into the pit. Every round, a character who is in contact with the cube will take 2-8 points of damage and must save vs. Paralyzation or become paralyzed for 5-20 rounds. In addition, once per round the cube will extend a pseudopod and strike an opponent up to 15 feet away. The pit is 10 feet wide, 20 feet long, and 5 feet deep. The cube has altered its shape to fit this area.
If the party looks carefully through the cube they notice several shiny objects under it. The remnants of the cube may be burned away in one turn (using three flasks of oil). The treasure includes 70 gp, a long sword +3, chain mail +1, and a dusty rose- colored crystal prism (an joun stone—this will orbit around the first character to toss it into the air, giving +1 to both armor class and saves).
If the party searches for treasure before looking around the corner, they will not see the second gelatinous cube that is advancing to attack. This cube will move quickly through the far opening and into the pit, altering its shape to land on any characters there (all those searching for treasure). All such characters will automatically take damage and must save against paralysis. Characters who are not paralyzed are -4 to hit and do only half damage. This cube attacks as the first cube in all respects.
Gelatinous cubes (2): AC 8; MV 6”; HD 4; hp 25, 30; #AT 1; D 2-8; SA paralysis
7. Grotto of Terror
a. The Black Lake
The passageway opens into a huge cavern at least 150 feet across. The stalactite-filled ceiling varies from 50 feet to 65 feet high, and the floor is covered
with a spongy turf. The grotto is lit by the eerie luminescence of a forest of tall fungi (6 to 7 feet tall, with caps 4 feet
across). The turf at the entrance rapidly gives way to a dense marsh from which these man-sized mushrooms sprout.
However, most of the grotto is filled by a large lake, with clammy-looking black water and a few patches of green surface scum. Floating in the water are the bodies of several blind, white fish covered with leeches. Across the lake, nearly 100 feet away, another shore can be dimly seen. It may be reached by tak- ing a narrow path (5 feet wide) along the east wall of the grotto. Strange clumps of vegetation litter the path, but beyond the marshy beach of the far shore an opening can be seen in the grotto wall.
If a character attempts to swim across the lake, dozens of leeches (normal size) attach themselves to the character's body the moment he or she enters the water. The leeches inflict a total of 2-12 points of dam- age before they can be removed.
The caps of the giant fungi are easy to cut off and are quite buoyant. They can serve as rafts; each cap can carry two characters across the lake. If the players spend more than two minutes of actual time deciding what they are going to do, then the sham- bling mound (see below) will attack them at once.
b. Shambling Mound If the party takes the path:
The path grows increasingly soft and wet. As you approach the halfway point,
a huge heap of rotting vegetation rises from the muck. It is alive, and attacks.
The creature is a shambling mound. It attacks until either all the adventurers are dead or escaped. It will not leave the grotto or enter area 8, but will return to its original location. lf the shambling mound is killed and area 8b is searched, treasure can be found amidst the rotting vegetation: a potion of extra-healing: gauntlets of dexter- ity; and a sword +2.
Shambling mound: AC 0; MV 6"; HD 8; hp 37; #AT 2; D 2-16/2-16; SA If both attacks hit the same target suffocation will occur in 2-8 rounds unless the mon- ster is slain; SD weapons do half dam- age, fire does no damage, cold does half damage, lightning causes it to grow 1 HD in size
8. The Sinister Snakes
As you reach the far shore, two giant
snakes appear from holes in the ground and attack!
These are giant constrictor snakes. They pursue escaping characters, but will not fight the shambling mound.
Giant constrictor snakes (2); АС 5; MV 9"; HD 6+1; hp 37,35; #AT 2; D 1-4/2-8; SA Constriction
STOP! Kead this before Continuing!
If as DM you want to gain the maximum play value from this adventure, then the following must occur: The player characters must be defeated in the Council Chamber of the Slave Lords (area 9). This is necessary since the next stage of the adventure is a test of the true role-playing and thinking skills of your players. Although it seems harsh, the party must begin the next section as prisoners of the slave lords. In this case, use the Captured! outcome for room 9.
If you do not wish to arbitrarily condemn your player characters to capture, then a climactic final battle can ensue! Use the Slave Lords! outcome for room 9 in this case. However, this outcome is very deadly; even if the player characters succeed, they will be prevented from playing in the final part of the adventure (since that part of the adventure applies only if they are captured),
9. Council Chamber of the Slave Lords
This long corridor is well-lit by many
small oil lamps set into the wall. After about 100 feet the corridor dead-ends.
The concealed door at the end of the corri- dor will be found after one round of search- ing. It can be opened easily by any member of the party.
The door opens into a great room (70 feet x 70 feet x 40 feet high) lit by large torches set in wall sconces, There are
nine large throne-like chairs in a semi- circle facing the concealed door. A large
iron staircase spirals upward
108
in the southwest part of the room, (If the Captured! outcome is used, there are five men seated in the room. If the Slave Lords! outcome is used, seven of the nine
seats are occupied.) They are dangerous- looking men and women wearing many jewels and fine robes—and on some the glint of concealed armor can be seen.
Captured!
Although the men are clearly laughing, no sound can be heard coming from the room. As the party observes this scene, the man sitting in the central throne (a fighter-type with a black eyepatch) ges- tures to an unseen henchman, Suddenly a wall of stone drops 20 feet down the corridor, blocking any hope of retreat!
The stone wall is impenetrable. If the characters try to move forward into the room they discover an invisible wall of force in a 10-foot-radius hemisphere from the door.
As you struggle to win free of this trap, a small panel in the ceiling opens and a vial of fluid is hurled against the floor. The vial shatters, releasing a thick green gas
as the opening in the ceiling is hastily closed. Slowly, one by one, you fall to the ground unconscious—prisoners of the slave lords.
Continue the adventure with the next chapter, Dungeons of the Slave Lords.
Slave Lords!
The slave lords have observed the party's progress by means of a crystal ball with clairaudience. They have spells and weap- ons ready and cannot be surprised. The slave lords are impressed with this party's tenacity and skill and view the coming bat- tle with some amusement, This will change, however, as soon as one of the slave lords is injured. This then becomes a fight to the death. The listing of reccomended actions gives a guideline for actions the slave lords are likely to take in the ensuing combat.
Prior to the Encounter
Stalman Klim casts resist fire, negative plane protection, protection from evil 10' radius, and meld into stone on himself. He steps into a section of the wall and disap- pears. All spells except the meld into stone will be in effect for the duration of the com- bat.
Edralve casts a resíst cold on herself and a silence 15° radius on the doorway. These spells are in effect for the duration of the combat.
Ajakstu casts esp and polymorph self upon himself. At this time he retains his human form. This spell will remain in effect during the entire combat.
Lamonsten casts his detect invisibility and improved invisibility. The former will be in effect for the entire combat.
Ajakstu casts his slow spell on the party. Nerelas sips his potion of invisibility. Eanwulf throws his axe at the lead party member. Brother Milerjoi, Theg Narlot, and Slippery Ketta all throw two daggers at spellcasters. Edralve begins a chant.
Round 2
Ajakstu casts a fireball at the doorway. This will fill the nine squares in front of the door. Nerelas attempts to move behind one of the party members. Lamonsten casts his fear at the party unless he might hit one of his own group. In this case he will create a hypnotic pattern. The others use missile weapons as available. Edralve continues chanting.
Round 3
Eanwulf, Brother Milerjoi, and Theg Narlot charge the party. Ajakstu casts Evard's black tentacles on the rear of the party to pin them and block escape. Lamon- sten uses his fear, if available. Nerelas still attempts to strike from behind. Stalman Klim steps out of the wall. Slippery Ketta uses thrown daggers to pin down any spell- casters,
Round 4
Stalman Klim calls down a flame strike on the most threatening character. Ajakstu casts his cone of coldif a clear target is avail- able. The others continue as before.
The slave lords have not prepared detailed battle plans beyond this point, par- tially from over-confidence and partially because they know it is pointless to plan that far in advance.
If The Farty Loses
If the players lose this battle and the DM wishes to have them participate in the remainder of the adventure, two options can be used. The first is to have the players create new characters (of approximately 4th level) and continue play with the next sec- tion. As a second choice, it can be assumed that Stalman Klim has returned and, over several days, cast raise dead on all slain party members in order to torture and inter- rogate them. He is ostensibly attempting to learn how the player characters got as far as they did. From the documents found on them and their own statements, he hopes to implicate Edralve, giving him an excuse to remove her from power.
109
If The Party Wins
Congratulations are due. The player characters are a mighty group indeed!
Stalman Klim and Edralve
The confrontation with the player char- acters is the final part of Stalman's plots. They have gained their way to the Inner Council, a feat which should have been impossible. Obviously, someone must have given them help—but who? Stalman has carefully prepared things to frame Edralve, his major rival on the Inner Council. If the player characters are captured, he is confi- dent he can force the information (which he planted ) out of them. If they are dead, he will speak with the dead to gain his “proof.” Anyway, they are probably carrying the papers (which he planted), more than enough evidence to doom Edralve. And with her gone, he should have no difficulties with the rest.
Edralve, for her part, has been sent to work with the slave lords, preparing the way for future events. She has been gaining more and more power in the Inner Council, threatening Stalman's position. Following orders from the Queen of the Spiders, Edralve is about to assume control of this useful organization known as the slave lords.
Chapter 8:
Dungeons of the Slave Lords
"Life is hard and then you die” That is what is carved into the wall of your cell. For days, you think, you have been here all by yourself. Where your companions are, if they are even alive, is a mystery. All you know is that you have received the constant and brutal attention of the slave lords. Each day it seems one of them stops by to gloat over you. You have come to know them well—blood- thirsty Eanwulf, vixenish Ketta the Slip- регу, impassive Brother Milerjoi, frivolous Lamonsten and Ajakstu, the dark Nerelas, and the brutish Theg Narlot. They almost seem like family— your in-laws, But they don’t compare in any way to the two highest Lords of the council—the sadistic Edralve and the cold-blooded old priest Stalman Klim.
You have been kept in your cell for an unknown period of time. The only clue as to how long is that all of your wounds have healed. During this time, you have been brought before the slave lords for questioning many times. Their methods are varied —sometimes kind and friendly while on other occasions vicious and inhuman—but the questions have always been the same—who helped you? How did you get here? Finally, weakened by lack of sleep and a barrage of pain and magic, you can no longer resist. Your story unfolds—what little you know.
During this time, spells havelong since disappeared from their caster’s memo- ties, cast in desperate and clever attempts to escape from the dungeon or lost in the haze of pain. Unfortunately, all attempts were failures, though they succeeded in giving the jailers a very hard time. The clerics have received spe- cial treatment: the jailers, knowing that clerics can regain their spells by prayer and sufficient rest, have not allowed the clerics to sleep more than three hours in succession, and have given them even smaller rations of food and water than the other characters have received.
Despite their intentions, the jailers have occasionally slipped up in their routine abuse. This has allowed the clerics to quickly pray for (and receive) spells useful to their current condition; cure light wounds, purify food and drink, resist cold, create water.
Something finally occurs to break the monotony of imprisonment: the stone shudders and the earth growls as a large tremor rocks the island. Dust filters down from the ceilings of the cells, and you can hear much shouting and com- motion among your captors. After a short period, the doors to the dungeon clang open, and in walks Stalman Klim, the evil high priest, surrounded by guardsmen. Entering your cell, he grips your chin and locks his eyes on yours.
"Weakling fool,” he says almost cheer- fully, "if only you realized how well you have served me. Soon I will control the council—and all thanks to you.” Without relaxing his crushing grip he turns to the guards and announces, "The Earth Dragon has spoken! He is hungry, and the time has come to feed the weak to him, as is our sacred custom. Oh miscre- ants, he hisses, wrenching your face around, "now you shall pay for the havoc you have wrought.” And in an undertone he adds, "Since now your part is done.”
Contemptuously, he casts you back into the corner and strides out of your cell. "Guards, subdue them with the Smoke of the Little Death.”
He turns and leaves, and the guards go with him. Shortly, however, there is a click as a small aperture is opened in the dungeon door. Through it comes the end of a tube, which spews out the green sleep smoke you remember so well.
Refereeing the Dungeon
This section of the adventure is unusual in that the characters start almost totally bereft of equipment and spells. They are not
110
complete prisoners (as they were aboard the Ghoul), having freedom to move about their prison. However, the slave lords con- sider them helpless and doomed and so are not concerned.
Many players think of their characters in terms of the powers and possessions, rather than as people. Such players will probably be totally at a loss for the first few minutes of play. It is likely that they will be angry at the DM for putting them in such an "unfair" situation. They will demand or beg conces- sions. Do not give them any help, even if they make you feel sorry for them. Tell the players that they must rely on what they have, not what they used to have, and that this includes their brains and their five senses. Good players will actually welcome the challenge. All players will ultimately enjoy this section much more if they get out on their own resources, rather than with hints and clues the DM gives them.
The dungeon labyrinth is far from a nor- mal AD&D dungeon. To escape, the player characters have to make the best of the opportunities offered by the contents of the various encounter areas. These opportuni- ties may seem meager to the players at first, but this dungeon contains more than enough material for the players to escape from any of the exits if they have the wits and resourcefulness to recognize and utilize it.
In addition, this section will test of the ability of you, the Dungeon Master! It is a virtual certainty that good players, forced to rely on their own initiative, will attempt to use what they find to do things not cov- ered by the rules. In these situations, it is entirely up to you to handle these requests with fairness, objectivity, and imagination. Some things the DM can think about ahead of time; for example, how will the party make light, or ropes, or mark their way? Consider such things, but be prepared also, for the players will probably think of things that never occurred to you.
An essential mechanism of this scenario is the impending earthquake and volcanic eruption which will destroy the dungeon
and Suderham. The earthquake (and its attendant foreshocks) serves two purposes: it prods the players on to act quickly in the dungeon, and it sets the stage for the next section of the adventure. A number of trem- ors precede the earthquake, each of which should be slightly greater than the last. Begin the tremors as soon as the players start this section. Describe the walls trem- bling, sand shifting underfoot, dust and grit falling from the ceiling, and a deep growling from within the surrounding rock. After that, the tremors occur at regular intervals, with a slight increase in magnitude each time, The following schedule is suggested: stage a tremor after 40 minutes of play, the next one after 35 more minutes, the next after 30, then 25, 20, 15, etc., until the trem- ors are rocking every couple of minutes, if the players haven't escaped yet. (Be dis- creet; clever players will notice obvious clock-watching.) This is a chance for you to inject some drama and suspense into the game. Above all, never let the players sus- pect that the ceiling won't really fall on their heads, and that the whole dungeon will col- lapse behind them as soon as they escape! Make them think that they will all be killed if they don't get out ín time (which is exactly what happened in the tournament sce- nario!).
There is another purpose which the final earthquake can serve. If the players are totally unable to escape the dungeon, because of damage, inadequacy, or some fatal error, the earthquake can a) kill them all and put them out of their misery, or b) open an escape route to the outer world. The DM may choose to award fewer or no experience points for the labyrinth if the lat- ter expedient proves necessary.
Standard Dungeon Features
The ceilings of all dungeon tunnels and chambers are approximately 10 feet high, except where otherwise noted, The tunnels vary from 6 to 12 feet in width, averaging about 9 feet wide. All tunnels and chambers are of fine sandstone, except in wet and drippy areas, where the walls are lime- stone. (This is strange geology for a vol- canic island. Perhaps it can be explained by the legend that the Earth Dragon wanted a pleasant isle for his crater lake, so he carried away an entire tropical island and dropped it here. But perhaps not.)
Except where noted, it is not possible to chip rock pieces out of the wall to get weap- ons or slingstones. The limestone is too
hard, and the sandstone is too crumbly. The floors of the tunnels and chambers are cov- ered with fine sand to a depth of 1 foot. The floors in the limestone areas are generally smooth. Stalactites and stalagmites are too thick to break off except as noted.
Starting Fires
Certain materials have been placed in the labyrinth to enable quick-witted players to gather the wherewithal from which to con- struct a fire. It is likely that every group of adventurers will at one time attempt to use these or other materials in a manner not intended or foreseen by the author. In all such cases, the carefully considered judge- ment of the DM must be the final authority. It would be quite impossible to anticipate every given action a party might take and give instructions here on how to handle the situation. However, a few tips are listed below covering the starting of fires, which is one of the most crucial and clear-cut prob- lems facing the adventurers.
Flint and Steel: Sharp blows of flint against ferrous metal (iron or steel) will pro- duce a spark. For example: the rusty dagger (area 4) and flint spearheads (area 6). Flint striking flint, bone, or other rock will not produce sparks,
Friction: The wood found in area 5 is too crumbly to be rubbed together to produce a flame. If this is attempted, the wood will merely break into smaller fragments.
Plants and Animals: The glow-fungi (area 11) and fire beetles (area 15) give off light but not heat, in the manner of fire flies. It is a total waste of time for a party to try to start a fire with these.
The above notes are intended as a supple- ment to the information provided under the encounters themselves.
Climbing
All of the walls in the dungeon caves can be climbed by thieves at normal percentages except where indicated otherwise.
Fighting
Fighting in the dark is at -4 “to hit” for characters without infravision.
Infravision
Infravision will enable characters to note the general outlines of cave walls and the presence of creatures, but that's about it. Everything non-living in the dungeon is about the same temperature as everything else. Characters with infravision will be able
111
to see fish and other creatures in the water at areas 10 and 12. Infravision does not enable a character to read a scroll! Reading parch- ment requires visible light.
Footprints
Footprints and other marks on the floor will be wiped out by the shaking of the sand with each earth tremor, and thus will not be reliable "road marks"
Resting
Characters may decide at some point to rest and/or sleep, particularly in order to regain clerical spells. There are several ways to dissuade them from this. One way is to tell the players, "You rest for 40 minutes but then there is an earth tremor, slightly larger than the last. Your rest is spoiled? Another way to deal with this in a timed game situa- tion is to have the characters' rest time equal real time. To do this, the DM simply leans back and does nothing, responding to hurry-up exhortations with, "You're still resting.” Most parties will catch on within a minute or two and give up on this particular
ploy.
Mapping
No mapping is possible by players until characters acquire something to map with! Mapping requires light and a reliable writ- ing instrument. (A pricked finger is too messy and the blood will keep coagulating.) Characters do not know which way is north (unless they have a Stoutish halfling with them who thinks to check for direction); all directions should be given to them in terms of right and left. This will make it difficult for the players to keep track of where they are and where they've been, but not impos- sible. If they think they've been some place before, do not confirm or deny it; describe the place and let them decide.
Traveling
This may be difficult without light, Char- acters without infravision will have to feel their way through the dark, and the party will be able to move no faster than one-half the speed of its slowest member with normal vision. Ultravision is of no use here. If the group travels without linking hands or using some other method to keep together, each unlinked character with normal vision has a 20% chance of making a wrong turn at an intersection. If the party is accidentally split in this way, it will take 1-2 turns to notice the split and reform the party (possi-
bly longer, if the group is attempting to remain silent).
Key to the Labyrinth
Entrance to Fear
The party awakens in a place where there is no light and no sounds but their own. Characters with infravision can ascertain that all party members are present. The place they are in looks and feels like a natural cave, about 30 feet in
diameter. There are four 10-foot-high exit tunnels somewhat evenly spaced around the perimeter. Characters with infravision cannot see a ceiling; appar- ently it is too high. The floor is covered with sand.
None of the party have any possessions save a dirty cotton loincloth. They have no weapons, no food, nothing: only their wits, and a small closed cloth tube which rests on the floor in the center of the room, It is a foot-and-a-half long, about the size of a wand or scroll tube.
If the players look down the exit tunnels, they see nothing down three of them, but see a distant, dim light down the fourth (northernmost) tunnel. This light occasion- ally Hickers and moves slightly.
It is 110 feet to the ceiling of this room, where a heavy stone block plugs the hole the characters were lowered through. The walls are crumbly and will not support a climber's weight above a height of 15 feet even if the climber is using a spider climb spell to adhere to the walls.
The scroll tube is made of cloth, with a light wooden ring at each end to give it its shape. (It can be used to hold one breath of air, or two if covered with pitch—see area 10). The tube contains three scrolls, one with spells for illusionists and two for magic-users. There is also a short note. All of the spells listed are at the 7th level of abil- ity. (Note: C = casting time, R = range, D = duration, s = segments, r = rounds, t 7 turns.)
Scroll A:
Audible glamer (C 5s, R 13", D 21r) Dancing lights (C 1s, R 11^, D 14r) Wall of fog (C 1s, КЗ”, D 2-8 +7г) Invisibility (C 2s, R touch, D special)
Scroll B:
Spider climb (C 1s, R touch, D 8r) Feign death (C 1s, К touch, D 13r)
Dig (С 4s, КЗ”, D 7r, 5-foot-cube can be dug each round)
Scroll C:
Affect normal fires (C 1s, R 3 1/2", D 7r)
Light (C 1s, Ré", D 7t)
Jump (C 1s, R touch, D special, 3 leaps pos- sible, see PHB)
Read Magic (C 1r, R 0, D 14r) This spell is permanently written in a common magic-user's script (as in a spell book), and will not disappear once read, unlike the other spells on the scrolls.
Of course, it is impossible to read nor- mally with infravision, so these scrolls must remain a mystery to the party until they can find a light source. The special read magic spell will enable magic-users to read the scrolls. (An illusionist does not need a read magic to read illusionist writings.)
The tube also includes a note, which reads: “We have all been deceived. This is the best I could do to help. May your gods be with you. If you escape, seek your revenge on the one who lured you here. Seek out the Water Dragon, at the Suderham docks. Edralve.”
If the players think of it, they find that it is possible to make crude blackjacks with their loincloths and sand, which they can wield at -2 “to hit” Wet sand is better, as it is heavier, and use of such will cause the attacks to be made at only -1. All the sand in this room is dry. Sand blackjacks strike for 1-4 points of damage, but only half of this will be permanent damage.
If the party does a careful hand-search of the floor of the chamber, they find 12 small sling-sized stones. (These have fallen from the crumbly walls, and have not yet been collected by the kobolds at area 6.) The characters may attempt to make crude slings from their loincloths. These will have only half the range of normal slings with stones, i.e. short range = 2”, medium range = 4”, and long range = 8”. Of course, any character not proficient in the use of the sling will suffer the usual "to hit" penalties applicable to a non-proficient member of his or her class. Sling stones inflict 1-4 points of damage.
2. The Lure of Light
The faint flickering light down this pass-
ageway seems to move away slightly as the characters approach.
This is an ancient, feeble will-o-wisp. The creatures of this labyrinth have learned to
avoid it, and it has not fed for a long time. As characters approach its position, it will gradually recede, attempting to draw the players to area 3, the abode of the sandling. If it is successful in luring the party into a battle with the sandling, it will hover about during the fight, waiting to consume the life force of dying creatures. If three or more creatures are killed (including the sandling), it will feel strong enough to defend its lair at 4. Otherwise, it will flee to the dead end and become as dim as possible, hiding until the party is long gone.
Will-o-wisp: AC -8; MV 18"; HD 6; hp 21; K AT 1; D 1-8; SD affected only by pro- tection from evil, magic missile, and maze
3. Realm of the Sandling
This shaded section of the tunnel is the territory of a sandling. As the party enters this area, one member (chosen at random) will feel something rasp across his or her foot. Almost immediately thereafter, other characters feel something touch their feet. Infant sandlings are scurrying all about this area, running into characters just by chance. They are invisible to infravision, and cannot be caught due to their speed and mutable forms. Though players may be somewhat alarmed by these creatures, they are harmless.
Their parent is not harmless at all. When the party reaches the center of the territory, the adult sandling will attack the foremost character. If no light source is being used by the party, it will surprise on 1-5 (d6); other- wise it will surprise only on 1-3. The will-o- wisp will not be near enough to act as a light source until the second round, when it will come rushing to the battle,
Adult sandling: AC 3; MV 12" (6"); HD 4; hp 20; #AT 1; D 2-16; SD immune to sleep, hold and charm-type spells
4. Wealth of the Wisp
This is the lair of the will-o-wisp (from 2). The aged creature's treasure consists of only two items: a human skull and a rusty dag- ger. (Over the years, the sandling has cor- roded and destroyed the wisp's other possessions.) The skull can be thrown with the same range and damage as a club, but it is useless as a hand-to-hand melee weapon. The lower jaw of the skull is missing. The rusted dagger has a 3546 chance per success- ful hit of snapping off at the hilt.
5. Lost Treasure
Lying here on the floor of the tunnel are an intact human thigh bone and about two pounds of pine wood, smashed to flinders. The thigh bone can be wielded as a club, but the pieces of wood are too small to be used as weapons, including “wood daggers.” The wood is quite dry. The party will find these things by stumbling over them if they can't see.
6. Kingdom of the Kobolds
This is the lair of the remnants of a kobold tribe. They have been gradually dying out for decades, and now only 16 are left. They were driven down into the labyrinth when the slave lords came and took over the upper caves. They have barely survived ever since. A few of their kind have man- aged to escape the dungeon and are now ser- vants of the slave lords. Those remaining presume they are dead. Their weapons are all constructed of bone and flint, and only the leader has a shield (thus their armor classes are worse than the usual 7). They have forgotten the use of fire and live entirely on raw fish, which they catch in the pool at 6C. They are dying out and they know it. They attack any intruders with desperate fury, fighting to the death. If an alarm is raised, all the kobolds will come to defend their lair except the female guarding the kobold cubs at 6C. All the caves and passageways are natural, except the 4-foot- tall tunnel from 6A to 6E, which was carved out.
6A. Entranceway
A party entering this area will notice that the floor is clean of sand here, and is quite smooth. There is a shrieker next to the wall where the corridor begins to turn. Beyond it a faint green light glows from a 4-foot-high tunnel opening.
The tunnel floor has been swept clean of sand all the way up to chamber 6B. The shrieker will howl for 1-3 rounds if any non- kobold approaches within 10 feet, or if any flaming light source comes within 30 feet. Shrieking will alert the kobolds, who will take up defensive positions in 6B and 6E. This shrieker was raised by the kobolds from a tiny fungus; they feed it, and it rec- ognizes them as no threat.
Shrieker: AC 7; MV 1"; HD 3; hp 6; #AT 0; D nil
6B. Chamber of the Hunters
There are four male adult kobolds in this chamber. The smooth passageway slants slightly upward toward this room, and if intruders approach, the kobolds dump a six-gallon skin of fish oil down the tunnel. This oil will spread 20 feet down the pass- ageway in one round, All characters are probably in their bare feet, and any charac- ter attempting to move across the slippery area will have to roll his or her Dexterity score or below on 1d20 to avoid falling. Fallen characters lose a round as they regain their balance and footing. and the kobolds will be able to strike at any front-rank fallen characters ata +2 to hit. Two fallen charac- БА block the passage until they regain their
eet.
The fish oil is quite flammable, but the kobolds are not in it and will not burn if it should somehow be set alight.
The kobolds then take up a defensive position at the mouth of the tunnel: two in front wield spears set vs. charge (double damage on a hit if opponents charge into them), and the other two stand behind them on a slab of rock, slinging over the heads of the spearmen as long as they can.
This chamber contains very little, all total: four sand mounds where the kobolds sleep, a pothole full of sling bullets (18 in all), and two half-finished spears. All of the kobolds’ spears are constructed of bone with flint spearheads. They are held together by animal sinew.
Kobolds: AC 8; МУ 6"; HD 1/2; hp 3 each; FAT 1; D 1-6 with spear, 1-4 with sling
6C. Kobolds' Kitchen
A waterfall-fed pool of water in the northeast corner dominates this chamber. The water rushes out of a hole in the ceiling and falls into the pool, where it drains out of another hole. (Neither is large enough for even a halfling to pass through.) Fish occa- sionally come in with the stream, and the kobolds catch them in a much-repaired 2- foot-diameter net which hangs beneath the falls. The pool is only 2 feet deep. The stream brings in food and water, and carries off refuse. The whole room has an extremely offensive dead-fish smell.
There is a 2-foot-high niche or horizontal crack in the northwest wall of the chamber, and various things are stored there, includ- ing: two bone knives, a flint knife, some sharp seashell scraping tools, another skin of fish oil (3 gallons) a third skin with lumps
113
of fish fat in the bottom, and 47 fish heads in various stages of decomposition.
There are also two kobolds in this room, a male and a female.
Male kobold: АС 8; МУ 6”; HD 1/2; hp 3; #AT 1; D 1-6 with spear, 1-4 with sling
Female kobold: AC 8; MV 6”; HD 1/2; hp 2; #AT 1; D 1-6 with club
6D. Nursery
In this chamber are one female and four young kobolds. If the lair is attacked, the female will hustle the children into the west end of the chamber and take up a defensive position behind the stalactite columns that divide the room. She will defend the young to the death. The room is otherwise bare except for some raw fish and a few kobold- child toys (rat bones, etc.).
Female kobold: AC 8; MV 6”; HD 7/2; hp 2; #AT 1; D 1-6 with club
Young kobolds (4): AC 10; MV 6”; HD %2; hp 1 each; #AT 0; D nil
6E. Chieftain's Chamber
This is the kobold chieftain's chamber, and it is considerately more elaborate than the others. The room is lit by a dim green glow from patches of phosphorescent mold on the walls. The walls themselves are cov- ered with lurid murals done in black and red-brown (tar and blood), depicting savage scenes of kobolds triumphing over huge enemies and the like. There is a crude, raised seashell mosaic of Kurtulmark, god of the kobolds, on the south wall. The chieftain's throne is a pile of rocks and sand between three large stalagmites. Many raw fish are scattered around—some have obviously been here too long. There is a 2-foot-high pile of stones across the mouth of the short passage to 6A. This serves as a barricade in case of assault, providing the kobolds with 50% cover (+4 armor class bonus vs. mis- sile fire).
In this room are four females and the chieftain, Klobt-a-lozn. Klobt wields an ancient short sword, a sacred tribal relic which his fathers had for generations. He is also the only kobold with a shield, an elabo- rate affair made of hide and bone. Klobt will direct the defense intelligently, but he will not surrender.
Buried under the sand and rocks that serve as the chieftain's throne is the kobold's greatest treasure. In a small pit, covered with a flat stone, are 4 cp, 6 sp, one-half of a
gold piece, and three white pearls, each of which is a base 100 gp gem.
Female kobolds (4): АС 8; MV 6"; HD 1/2; hp 2 each; #AT 1; D 1-6 with spear, 1-4 with sling
Klobt-a-lozn: AC 7; MV 6*; HD 1-1; hp 6; FAT 1; D 1-6
7. Pool of Fitch
At this point in the tunnel there is a small pool of tar, or pitch, off to one side. A party seeing only by infravision will not notice the pool until one member steps in it. This black, gooey substance will burn slowly if ignited, and is useful for torch making. A torch coated liberally with this pitch will give standard torch illumination (40 feet radius), and will burn for six turns. There are about two gallons of tar in this small pool. If it is all removed from the pit, the pool will gradually re-fill itself, but this will take days, as the pitch oozes rather than flows.
8. Giant Ants' Lair
As characters near this area, they detect a bitter smell which becomes much stronger as they approach. They also hear scuttling and clicking noises, As they round the final bend, their progress will be blocked by a chasm, 20 feet across and of greater depth than vision can determine. Beyond the chasm, the corridor widens into an oval cul- de-sac, the walls of which are pierced by 17 one-foot-wide openings. Giant ants are moving all about on the other side of the chasm, on the floors, walls, and even the ceiling, darting in and out of the holes. They are carrying food, larvae, or other nonde- script organic material. At any given time; there are at least a dozen giant ants in view, all occupied with their own business, They will pay no attention to observers.
Two worker ants are working industri- ously at the wall on the lower right-hand side of the cul-de-sac, apparently carving a new tunnel. One holds a sharp stone in its mouth, and the other is using what looks like an iron spike.
The walls on either side of the chasm are of slick, porous rock. A continual film of water runs down their surfaces, feeding a slimy algae which lives on the rock.
There is a slim bridge across the center of the chasm, of astounding construction: it is made entirely of dried giant ant bodies, linked together by locked madibles, clawed legs, and some dried mortar-like substance,
Giant ants' mandibles are not strong
enough to carve quickly through the soft rock, so two of the ants are employing tools. One is using a sharpened piece of flint and the other is holding an iron spike. This spike has been sharpened by long use, and can now function as a dagger, if taken from the ants. (The spike was stolen from humans on the surface.)
The wet side walls are extremely slippery, and are impassable to man or ant.
The bridge will support up to 300 pounds (3,000 gp weight) before collapsing. It is about 2 feet in diameter, and very irregular, as ant heads, thoraxes and legs stick out in all directions. Any character attempting to walk across this bridge must roll his or her Dexterity score or below on 1d20 to avoid falling into the chasm (fallen characters are considered lost). Any who attempt to cross the bridge on all fours do so safely.
The most unusual aspect of the bridge is that characters may find it to be easily port- able. The entire bridge weighs only 300 pounds, as the ant bodies are but dried husks. There is a place near the center where several ant jaws can be easily unlocked (or locked), breaking the bridge down into two sections, one 9 feet long, one 11 feet long.
Any character who crosses the bridge to the giant ants' side will be attacked by seven worker ants and two soldier ants. Addi- tional ants will come to their aid, one per round; every fifth reinforcement will be a soldier. They issue at random from the exit holes.
Characters killed by the ants will be dis- membered by workers, and the pieces will be carried off into the nest to serve as food. Each round another limb or extremity will be severed and carried off, the whole proc- ess taking eight rounds.
Though it is not likely that characters will be able to enter the nest through the one- foot-diameter ant-holes, the unlikely often happens in AD&D® games, so some infor- mation about the nest will be given here.
The maze of the giant ant nest includes well over 300 miles of tunnels and several dozen chambers. Sore of the tunnels lead to the surface, and ants forage both above ground and below ground. They also grow edible fungus in several chambers, fertiliz- ing it with rotted organic material and excrement. At the very bottom chamber of the maze is the queen's chamber. The queen is huge, being 6 feet in diameter and 20 feet in length, and having 10 hit dice and 45 hit points. However, she does not move or attack, and cannot leave the chamber. She is surrounded by the pretty baubles and objects that her subjects have stolen for her
114
from the surface. These include three gems of 10 gp size, one base 50 gp gem, two base 500 gp gems and one base 5,000 gp piece of jewelry. There is also a potion of extra- healing and a potion of delusion.
Worker ants (7): AC 3; МУ 18*; HD 2; hp 9 each; #AT 1; D 1-6
Soldier ants (2): AC 3; MV 18”; HD 3; hp 14 each; #AT 1; D 2-8; SA if mandibles hit, soldier ants attempt to sting for 3-12 points of damage, save vs. poison to 1-4 points
9. Hanging Roots
The tunnel must near the surface at this point, for here long taproots from plants above pierce the ceiling. Three long, hairy roots dangle from the ceiling to the floor.
Though these roots are harmless, the DM may wish to lead the players to think other- wise by describing how wiry and tough they appear. (If there has been a tremor recently, they may still be trembling!) Also, the corri- dor is narrow at this point, only 5 feet wide, and it is impossible for characters to pass without touching a root.
These roots are flexible, but very tough. A hard, sharp object, such as a dagger, flint knife, or sharpened seashell, is needed to saw through the tough fibers (they could also be severed with fire). Each root is 10 feet long. More length cannot be pulled down through the ceiling. If used as impro- vised ropes, they are easily strong enough to support the weight of several characters.
10. Crabs' Tunnels (exit)
This chamber's far end is taken up by a deep pool. There are several fair-sized fish in the pool, but not blind, white cave fish: they appear to be normal fresh- water fish. Two pieces of wood are washed up on the sandy shore of the pool.
This room is the lair of a giant crab. It will be hiding in the pool when a party approaches, watching with its tiny stalked eyes. If anyone comes within 10 feet of the pool, the crab will rush out and attack, sur- prising on a 1-4 (dó). The crab will chase prey as far as 50 feet down the corridor.
The fish in the pool are harmless, but they are wary and not easily caught without a net, spear, or hook and line. In fact, only a
ranger can catch them by hand, scooping up a number of fish per hour equal to his or her level. The two pieces of wood are long and sturdy enough to be used as clubs.
There is an underwater exit from this room, one of the three ways by which resourceful characters can escape the laby- rinth.
Giant crab: AC 3; MV 9*; HD 3; hp 18; #AT 2; D 2-8/2-8; SA surprise on 1-4
Swimming and Drowning: Unencum- bered characters can swim underwater 100 feet per round (or ten 10-foot squares on the detail map): in other words, 10 feet per seg- ment. Encumbered characters (for example, any person holding anything in his or her hands) reduce movement by 1/3, A charac- ter may remain underwater without drown- ing (hold his breath) for a number of segments equal to his or her Constitution score. Thus, a character with a 16 Constitu- tion could remain underwater for 16 seg- ments and could swim 160 feet, or 16 squares. After 16 segments (in that charac- ter's case), the character would cease all activity and would begin to drown. Drown- ing takes 3-18 segments, and during this per- iod the character can do nothing but writhe in panic, though it is possible he or she could be dragged to safety. Such a saved character will suffer hit points of damage equal to the number of segments spent drowning. If not brought to air before the segments of drowning are up, the character is dead. If any cure spell is cast on the character within five rounds of death, the character will revive with 1 hit. One breath of air taken, for example, from a sealed scroll case or worm tube (see below), will enable a swim- mer to remain underwater for another time period equal in segments to his or her Con- stitution score.
The Detail Map
Area 10A is the entrance to the lair of the giant crab.
Area 10B is a niche where strange, giant, underwater tube worms live. The worms feed on passing plankton and tiny water animals. The gray tubes are 2 to 3 feet long, and are anchored to the rock. They are about 2 inches in diameter. The bright red worms live within these tubes, and protrude from the end, retreating if endangered. They protect themselves by issuing a mild electrical discharge if disturbed. Each time a worm or its tube is touched, it inflicts 1 point of electrical damage to the toucher. If a tube is struck by a decent blow it will snap
off at the base, killing the worm. (The attacker, of course, will be zapped for 1 point of damage unless using a non- conductive weapon such as a wood club.) Clever players may note that, if the worms are removed, the tubes are watertight, and if sealed properly (with worm membranes, for example), they can be used by swimmers to carry an extra two breaths of air. There are only eight adult tube worms—the young ones growing here are quite tiny.
Area 10C is another cave with a sandy beach. The distance from the air in A to the air in C is 140 feet, or 14 squares. Thus, a character of 14 ór better Constitution could swim the distance underwater, The separate cave to the rear of the beach is the lair of another giant crab, a smaller specimen than the one at A. It will attack suddenly from this second cave.
Giant crab: AC 3; MV 9^. HD 2; hp 9; #AT 2; D 2-5/2-5; SA surprise on 1-4
Area 10D is a dead end, a death trap to any who swim this far without extra air.
Area 10E marks the place where the ceil- ing rises high enough to allow breathable air. This tunnel leads to freedom, a water cave on the lake in the volcanic crater. The distance from A to E is 180 feet; from C to E the distance is 150 feet. There is no light here, as it is still quite a way to the exit.
Area 10F is the exit to the beach of the island.
The DM should be careful to keep swim- ming characters informed as to how far they have gone, and how well they're holding out. (For example: "You feel like your air's about half used-up.”) Be sure that they have an opportunity to tell you they're turning back. If a character is exploring alone, seperate from the party, tell only that player what he or she sees, in case the character doesn't make it back.
The dividing passageways may cause the players some concern. Any swimmer who attempts to look for currents to give him or her the right direction will notice a slight flow toward the exit. This will not cost the player any lost time,
11. Fearsome Fungus
A party approaching this area will notice a dull green glow from ahead, starting at about 60 feet from the chamber (unless the party has a light source of their own, in which case they won't notice the glow until they enter the area).
115
This is a damp chamber, where the slow dripping has formed stactites and stalag- mites. There are about a dozen piercer- sized stalactites hanging from the ceiling. One has recently fallen, and shattered bits lie on the floor in the center of the chamber. The glow comes from 17 round
phosphorescent fungi clustered in the center of the chamber. Each is about 6 inches in diameter. In the center of the fungus cluster stand two larger fungi. Both are man-sized, and both resemble shriekers, but one has four 4-foot-long branches.
The branchless fungus is a shrieker but the branched growth is a violet fungus. The branches of the violet fungus form a pro- tective canopy over the shrieker and the glow-fungi, for if any creature comes within 4 feet of the big fungus, it will lash out with its oozing branches (able to attack any given target with two of its branches). If charac- ters attempt to harvest the glow-fungi with sticks or attack the violet fungus by staying just outside its range, they will find that the violet fungus can suddenly shamble for- ward several feet and attack them nonethe- less! Any creature struck by a branch must save vs. poison for each successful strike— failure means death due to the powerful flesh-rotting poison that oozes from the branches.
The shrieker, of course, will shriek if any- thing comes within 10 feet of it. If the violet fungus moves, the shrieker will also move in order to keep up with it.
The glow-fungi are also mobile (MV 1"), and will get out of the way if the big fungi start moving, scuttling frantically to keep near but avoid being crushed, while making annoyed little squeaking noises. A single glow-fungus will shed decent (though green) light in a 10-foot-radius, two provide a 20- foot glow, and three or more give a good light in a 30-foot-radius. If set down, how- ever, they walk away.
The fallen stalactite shattered into six good-sized chunks with sharp edges, but these are also in the center of the room, around the bases of the fungi. (Other bits fell outside the range of the fungi, but scav- engers have taken them, leaving the only chunks in the danger zone.) If used as weap- ons, these stones inflict 1-4 points of dam- age if thrown (short range 10 feet, medium range 20 feet, long range 30 feet) or used as hand-held bludgeons. If used as tools, they can be used to snap off further stalactite and stalagmite edges, thus arming the whole
party. Thirteen more chunks can be removed in this manner.
Shrieker: AC 7; MV 1"; HD 3; hp 19; #AT 0; D nil
Violet fungus: AC 7; MV 1^; HD 3; hp 20; WAT 4; D flesh-rotting poison
12. Pool of the Old One
All entrances lead here to the edge of an underground pool. The depth varies from 7 to 15 feet. If a light source is in use, it is possible to look right through the still, crystal-clear waters. The bot- tom of the pool is covered by clumps of
white shellfish. Occasionally, observers will see blind white fish and crayfish. A small stream trickles into the pool from the mouth of one of the tunnels (the pass- ageway that leads to area 15, from whence the stream comes).
This is where the kobolds (from area 6) obtain their shellfish. The shells of these creatures are long and oval, like mussels, and sharpened, they will make serviceable daggers or tools. As daggers they can be used to strike at -2 to hit, and they will inflict 1-4 points of darnage. However, they will have a 35% (non-cumulative) chance of breaking on each successful hit.
Section 12A on the map is the visible part of the pool, that occupies the northern por- tion of this cavern. Actually, the pool extends much further (Section 12B), under the rocks where there are no air pockets. Deep in 12B is its secret source and exit, both too small for a person to pass through. Characters may wish to investigate 12B. The DM is referred to area 10 for rules on swimming underwater,
Section 12B is also the home of a giant crayfish which will attack anyone who intrudes into that section, surprising on a 1-3 (d6). This 9-foot horror is truly the king of the pool, having eaten all of its competi- tion. Unlike its tiny blind cousins, it has full vision. The ancient crustacean is used to creatures passing through 12A, but any who trespass into 12B will be savagely attacked. It will even pursue the intruder into the outer cavern (12A), halting only if its prey should somehow escape into the dry tun- nels. It will then retire to its own section.
Giant crayfish: AC 4; MV 6"/12*; HD 4+4; hp 20; #AT 2; D 2-12/2-12
15. Mineral Corner
13A. An irregular-shaped outcropping here is the source of flint for the kobolds (at 6). No large chunks of flint can be gotten out without tools, but there are many tiny flint chips about.
13B. There is a vein of soft coal in the wall at this point. It will be noticed only if a light source is being used—infravision will not differentiate it from the rest of the wall. If tools are used, about 6 pounds of coal can be dug from the wall; if no tools are used, only one pound may be obtained. If ignited, one pound of coal will burn for three hours, casting light in a 40-foot radius. Coal burns much hotter than most combustibles, and requires more than just a spark to light it (i.e. a full fire is necessary).
14. The Beastly Badger
This is the lair of a giant badger. It once had a tunnel connected to the surface, but the slave lords' hunters drove it permanently underground, and the escape tunnel has col- lapsed. It has learned to live on shellfish grubbed out of the pool (area 12) and what- ever else it can catch, including the occa- sional kobold. It is an ill-tempered beast, and will attack any creature that enters the section of tunnel it considers its territory.
Giant badger: AC 4; MV 9*; HD 3; hp 12; #AT 3; D 1-3/1-3/1-6
15. Mushroom Garden
A small stream runs from this chamber down the tunnel, toward the pool (area 12). The water drips steadily from the ceiling of this damp chamber, creating large (and unbreakable) stalagmites and stalactites and providing a humid environment for the scores of strange fungi and molds that grow here. These come in all colors, shapes, and sizes, including some mushrooms that are 9 feet tall, and have thick log-like trunks. The room is faintly lit by a reddish, flickering glow.
None of the growths in this chamber are harmful unless eaten (60% chance of being safe, 30% chance of deadly poisonous, save vs, poison necessary, and 10% chance causes hallucinatory insanity for one week, no saving throw). The mushroom logs are light but fairly strong, and though they are easily portable, it will take crude tools at least to hack the giant mushrooms apart.
Also in this chamber, near the northwest wall, are three fire beetles, the source of the reddish glow. These giant insects live on the many types of fungus found here. They will ignore intruders unless they come within 5
116
feet, in which case the beetles consider them attackers and will fight. If removed, the three glowing glands from each beetle will radiate light for 1-6 days, illuminating a 10- foot radius.
Fire beetles (3): AC 4; MV 12*; HD 1+2; hp 7 each; #AT 1; D 2-8
16. Abode of the Myconids
In general, all of these chambers are quite damp, with water practically running from the ceiling in places. Excess water seeps away through cracks in the floor. Stalactites abound here, except where the myconids (see below) have cleared them away, All of the chambers are dimly lit by glow-fungi (see area 11). Some huge, 1-foot-diameter specimens may even be encountered, ambling about slowly and grumbling to themselves. (These large ones each give light in a 20-foot radius.) Every nook and cranny of these chambers is occupied by fungi, all growing luxuriantly to sizes rarely seen else- where. Except where noted, these are harm- less unless eaten (see area 15).
16A. Welcoming Committee
The entrance to this chamber is flanked by two 7-foot-tall shriekers. They begin to howl as soon as they sense any non-fungus movement within 10 feet of them. On the second round after shrieking, a motley col- lection of gate guards appear from among the stalagmites and giant mushrooms. They attempt to prevent further progress in this area, fighting if they must. This group con- sists of the following creatures:
a) A rotting, zombie-like kobold. This creature looks as if it died two weeks ago. Its body is covered with slime and mold, and toadstools grow out of its eye sockets.
b) Two giant worker ants. Their antennae droop and drag on the ground, they make no noise, and they move more slowly than normal giant ants.
c) A fire beetle. It does not glow, and it seems to move more slowly than normal,
d) A human corpse. Very little flesh is left on this skeleton, but it still moves. In many places, a bulbous purple fungus seems to have taken the place of flesh and blood. Mixed in with the purple is a yellow fungus- like growth. (This is a yellow mold colony. There is a 40% chance each time the corpse is hit that the mold's spores will erupt іп a 10 foot x 10 foot x 10 foot cloud. All within this cloud must save vs. poison or die.)
These dead creatures were all animated by special spores secreted by the myconid king. They strike last in any melee round, but they are not undead and cannot be turned. The myconids rely on these guards to deter intruders, and thei will not investi- gate a battle.
7-foot-tall shriekers (2): AC 7; MV 1"; HD 3; hp 23.22; #AT 0; D nil
Kobold zombie: AC 9: MV 6"; HD 72; hp 2; FAT 1; D 1-4 with flint dagger
Giant worker ants (2): AC 3; MV 12”; HD 2; hp 7,6; #AT 1; D 1-6
Fire beetle: AC 4; MV 9"; HD 1 *2; hp 5; FAT 1; D 2-8
Human corpse: AC 10; MV 9”; HD 1; hp 4; ВАТ 2; D 1-3/1-3 with bony claws
16B. Fungus Forest
This is a huge domed chamber, 80 feet in diameter and 50 feet high at its apex. A phosphorescent mold on the ceiling casts a weird blue glow over the giant mush- rooms and toadstools of the fungus for- est which covers the floor. There is no
breeze, but the fungi occasionally seem to rustle and sway, as if a wind were passing through. Trails wind through the towering mushroom forest, connecting the exits and often leading seemingly nowhere.
This chamber houses the myconid vil- lage, though this fact will not be immedi- ately apparent to visitors. The myconid houses are actually huge hollow puffball- shaped fungi which dwell among the other growths—32 in all are scattered randomly around the chamber, The myconids enter and leave their houses through 5-9 foot tall oval ooze-membranes. These membranes are self-sealing; the myconids merely step through them.
The myconids in this chamber are all at rest in their houses. Active myconids will usually only be found in areas 16C, D, and E. Unless their homes are meddled with, there is only a 30% (non-cumulative) chance per turn spent in this chamber that visitors will encounter a myconid. A 2 HD myconid will flee at the sight of strangers, running to a house to contact an elder. A 3 HD or greater myconid will approach the party and attempt to open communications by spraying the lead member with rapport spores. (This will enable the fungus man to communicate by ESP with the target on the next round.)
If the myconid is allowed to communicate
with the enspored character, it will ask what the party is doing here. If the party asks for help, it will offer to lead them to its king (in 16E). If the party is rude or arrogant and demanding, the fungus man will simply turn and leave, moving by the shortest possible route to inform the king about the intruders, If the myconid is attacked, before or after communication is attempted, it will defend itself while releasing a cloud of dis- tress spores. These spores alert every myconid in the huge chamber within four rounds, and one-quarter of them join the fray each round. The reinforcements also release distress spores, eventually alerting every myconid in the colony.
There is one “circle” of myconids at rest in the various houses of the village. This group consists of four of each of the following types:
HD hp Sie OD Spores
1 4 2’ 14 distress
2 8 47 2-8 + reproducer 3 12 6’ 3-12 + rapport
4 16  8' 4-16 + pacifier
5 20 10’ 5-20 + hallucinator
АП Myconids: AC 10; MV 9”; #AT 1; SD poisonous skin, touch causes 1-4 points of damage.
If the party attempts to escape when con- fronted by myconid reinforcements, they will be allowed to go, so long as they leave by way of 16A. If the party fights, the myconids attempt to incapacitate party members with pacifier and hallucinator spores whenever possible. Those not enspored will be threatened by many myconids unless they surrender. Captured or surrendering characters will be taken before the king.
16C. Fungus Farm
This large but low cavern is lit by many glow fungi. Edible fungus of all different types grows here in neat rows, circles, and other geometric designs, for this is the myconids' agricultural cave. A "circle" of fungus men equal in number and type to those in 16B are working here amongst their strange unearthly crops. Among the other fungus crops is a row of tiny myconids.
16D. Royal Chamber
This is the chamber of the king. It is a bare chamber, lit only by several glow-fungi.
The king coordinates all activities in
the myconid city, resolves disputes, and
117
deals with outsiders. It is always eager for news of the labyrinth, and will quiz the party by means of rapport spores about what they have seen and what they have done. If the party cooperates and answers the king’s questions, and then requests aid of the king in escape from the labyrinth, the king will bargain with them: if the party will kill the giant crayfish (at 12) and bring back proof that they have accomplished the deed, the king will tell them how to get to an escape route (the chimney at 19), The king sees the giant crayfish as the greatest local threat to myconid foraging parties.
If the party doesn’t agree to slay the giant crayfish, or if the party had to be subdued and taken to the king after attacking the myconids, the king will still ask them ques- tions about doings in the dungeon. How- ever, the party will then be totally divested of all belongings and escorted back out into the labyrinth. The party will not even be allowed a glow-fungus. A “circle” of myconids will make sure that the party leaves the area.
The small room behind the king's cham- ber is where the myconid leader keeps a sup- ply of potions, used only in emergencies. All of these potions were made by the king using fungal alchemy, but they duplicate the effects of normal potions. They are in potion bottles made from the heads of giant ants. The potions are: extra-healing, growth, healing, invisibility, speed, and water-breathing.
Myconid king: AC 10; MV 9”; HD 6; hp 30; #AT 1; D 6-24; SA all myconid spore clouds; SD poisonous skin, touch causes 1-4 points of damage
17. Roper's Lair
There is a steady drip, drip of water from the ceiling at this nexus of tunnels, and
there are many stalactites and stalag- mites on the floor and ceiling.
One of the stalagmites is actually a half- grown roper. The roper's strands can extend to 20 feet, and the creature will attack as soon as any are within this radius, surpris- ing on a 1-4. A hit from one of the roper's six strands causes weakness: the vitim loses 50% of his or her Strength in 1-3 rounds. Furthermore, the hit person will be dragged 10 feet per round toward the roper's toothed maw. The chance for breaking a strand is the same as for opening a door. Successive hits by strands do not cause cumulative weakness—only 50% of Strength will be
lost. Strength will be returned to weakened characters in six turns minus a number of turns equal to the character's Constitution bonus to hit dice, if any.
If the roper is killed, it will immediately go completely limp, relaxing its strands to their full length of 20 feet each. If severed from the roper, these strands make strong rope, each holding up to 400 Ibs. (4,000 gp) of weight. Within the roper's gizzard are three gems, one of base 100 gp, one of base 500 gp, and one of base 5,000 gp value.
Half-grown roper: AC 3; MV 3*; HD 5; hp 25; #AT 1; D 2-12; SA ósticky strands that cause weakness; SD 4596 magic resistance, immune to lightning, takes only half damage from cold
18. Chasm
At this point the floor of the tunnel disap- pears into a 20-foot-wide chasm that blocks further progress. The sides of the chasm are sheer, and the pit itself is 200 feet deep. At the bottom there are no exits. The walls around the chasm are dry rock, and a thief can climb them at his or her normal percent- age. Check every 10 feet, i.e., twice if the thief is climbing to the other side of the pit.
19. Chimney (exit)
The corridor ends here in a 20-foot-wide chamber. The walls are covered in a slimy, greasy mold from the floor up to
the ceiling, 20 feet above. The center of the ceiling is pierced by a 4-foot-wide opening, a rock chimney. This chimney goes straight up to the limit of vision.
This is another possible exit for the char- acters. The walls of this chamber are slip- pery and unclimbable, and furthermore the slime mold which covers them has a high acid content, burning exposed flesh for 1-3 points on contact.
There are several ways by which players might reach the chimney 20 feet from the floor. The ant bridge from 8 or stacked giant fungus logs from 15 or 16 could suffice. A
human pyramid could do it, provided it is constructed intelligently (strongest on the bottom, lightest on the top, etc.), and at least six people are used to form it. Resourceful players may come up with other feasible methods. Note that a jump spell only allows a 10-foot verticle leap.
The chimney is about 4 feet wide, and a series of ledges make it easy to climb, even for a non-thief. The chimney goes up 120 feet to a dead end. However, when a charac- ter or characters have gone to the top and ascertained that the chimney is a dead end, the person(s) will be attacked half-way down on his or her way back by a huge trap- door spider which will leap out from behind its secret door, suprising on a 1-5 (46). It will attack the lead person, if more than one are present. Characters will be at -2 to hit while fighting in the chimney, due to the con- stricted quarters and the necessity of hang- ing on.
The spider's lair is a chamber about 5 feet in diameter, 60 feet up from the opening in the ceiling below, Amidst the brush and lit- ter of the spider's nest is a small leather pouch, still attached to the belt the owner wore. In the pouch are 27 electrum pieces and two base 500 gems.
There is one small crawlway exit from the spider's lair, a tight, winding tunnel that leads up 40 feet to the spider's secret trap- door exit to the surface. This is concealed behind a fallen tree in an overgrown beech grove.
Trapdoor spider: AC6; MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp 14; #AT 1; D 1-6; SA poison, save at +1 on the die roll
20. Piercer Peril
This is another nexus of tunnels, a damp area of stalactites and stalagmites.
Six piercers hide here among the stalacti- tes. They cluster on the ceiling in the center of the chamber. If any people pass through the center of the room, the piercers drop and attack. If characters move around the out- side of the room, the piercers will be unable to attack and will ignore them.
118
Piercers (6): AC 3; MV 1"; HD 3; hp 9 each; FAT 1; D. 3-18
21. Cave of the Bats (exit)
Here the corridor opens into a large chamber, at least 60 feet x 60 feet, with a ceiling 60 feet above the floor. There is an exit on the far side of the chamber and a slight breeze definately moves toward it. The ceiling is swarming with bats, and they can be seen leaving and entering the
tunnel on the far side of the chamber. Unfortunately a large pit separates the main floor of the chamber from the tun- nel into the labyrinth. The pit is 25 feet across and appears bottomless, but the sound of distant running water can be heard rising from the depths.
The pit is 170 feet deep and ends, not in running water, but on a rock ledge. A short side passage leads to a place where an underground stream touches air at the only point along its entire length. There is no escape here.
On hidden ledges, 40 feet above the pit, three cave fishers lie in wait. Each fisher's fil- ament {5 already strung from its hiding place to a point on the western edge of the pit, hoping to catch a stray bat. (If a magic-user casts a jump spell to leap the pit, he or she has a 50% chance of colliding with and sticking to one of the trap lines.) If a party finds a means to cross the pit, or somebody starts climbing the walls to pass around it, the cave fishers silently reel in their lines and start shooting at whatever targets are offered. Once one cave fisher snags a target, the others ignore it, leaving that victim to their fellow. The fishers cannot shoot at any targets on the east side of the pit, but they can shoot up to 10 feet west of the west edge of the pit.
The tunnel on the west edge of the cham- ber twists and turns for 520 feet to an exit in the side of the cliff. Freedom!
Cave fishers (3): AC 4; MV 0 Feet; HD 3; hp 15,12,12; #AT 2; D 2-8/2-8; SA adhesive trap filament, shot as if by 6 HD monster
Chapter 9:
Suderham in Flames!
The Island Map
The numbered points (10, 19, and 21) mark the exits from the dungeon labyrinth (and also correspond to the appropriate area in the dungeon from which the players made their escape). The lettered areas (A through L; no letter 1 is used) are outdoor encount- ers.
The general situation the characters encounter upon their escape from the dungeon is not good. The same earthquake that caused the labyrinth to collapse has devastated the rest of the island. Suderham and Drachen Keep are in ruins, and Scumslum is ablaze. The "extinct" volcano Mount Flamenblutt is now erupting stead- ily, oozing lava and poisonous gases, and sending up a huge cloud of smoke and ash that blots out the sun. Worst of all, the mis- chievous magmen have come out with the lava flow and are leaping about the land- scape, igniting every combustible they can find. It is a disaster rapidly reaching epic proportions. Play it for all it is worth.
As in the labyrinth, the general theme of the outdoor adventure is escape. It should become clear to even the slowest party that staying on the island would be a fatal mis- take. If characters move south or west, they will encounter burning forests or fields and the magmen. If they try to move through Suderham or the valley south of it, they will be deterred by poisonous gases, Unless they swim for it (see Leaving the Island), player characters will probably end up at the docks area. There they will find possible escape boats and the surviving slave lords,
To aid the DM in describing the situation, a paragraph is included herein on what the characters can see from each of the three exits from the labyrinth, Use the appropri- ate description, but be familíar with. all three, in case the characters, after escaping, wander into one of the other areas.
Water Cave Exit (10.)
The cave behind the party has collapsed, pushing water out in a big wave. The party has emerged on the shore of the crater lake. The lake froths as white- capped waves toss wildly back and forth, colliding and building on one another. Everywhere fish, lake eel and fresh-water squid leap from the surface of the lake, crazily trying to escape the unaccustomed vibrations. The far rim of the crater lake, a mile and a half away, seems to tremble slightly as the charac- ters look at it.
On the island behind the characters is a 30-foot-tall bluff. Parts of it seem to have just crumbled, and stones are dis- lodging themselves and tumbling down in the continuing tremors. A huge dark cloud rises from somewhere on the west- ern part of the island beyond the bluff and fills half the sky. The island quivers and quakes continuously. Just to the north and south of this point begin beaches which run around the curve of the island. In both directions the bluff recedes from the beach and trees (many now fallen) grow in the space between hill and lake, A fishing boat making its way with great difficulty toward the outer shore can be seen on the lake about half a mile to the north. Southwest, maybe a quarter of a mile away, crack- ling flames leap above the treetops.
Spider Cave Exit (19)
The characters push their way out through the spider's trapdoor exit onto a slight slope in a thick grove of beech trees. About 40% of the trees have been knocked down by the quakes, and the
grove is a tangle of fallen trunks, broken boughs, and leafy debris. To the south- west, south, east, and northeast the slope rises to а 30-foot-tall bluff; the top appears to be unwooded. Downslope to the west, about 300 feet distant, there
119
seems to be a road running roughly north-south, but many trees have fallen across it. To the northwest it would appear that the woods end in cleared land 200 to 300 feet away.
The whole island rumbles and shakes, and to the west a huge pillar of smoke rises skyward. There seems to be a lot of fire and burning vegetation to the west also, There is distant shouting to the northwest, and to the north hoofbeats and loud bleating can be heard.
Movement through the twisted wreckage of trees and boulders is at one-third the nor- mal rate.
Bat Cave Exit (21)
The party emerges from a hole in the ground in the midst of a beech and pine forest. About half of the trees seem to have been knocked down or damaged. The woods seem to be burning to the south and west, and a huge pall of black smoke rises beyond the flames, blocking out the sunlight. A continuous low growl comes from the direction of the smoke, and the ground rocks beneath your feet.
Northwest, a few hundred feet away,
there is some sort of great commotion, with a loud, animal-like roaring and snap- ping of branches. The cause of the trouble cannot be seen from this point. About 300 feet north the forest ends, with a road run- ning east to west at its edge. Far to the north there seems to be a great deal of
shouting and screaming. can only see more tangled forest, with the land beginning to slope upward.
Movement through the fallen forest is at one-third the normal rate.
Key to the Island Encounters
The letters on the map indicate the approximate locations of these encounters.
A. Green Slime
This section of beach is covered with wrack and wreckage tossed up by the waves. Sticks, seaweed, thick algae, and
flopping fish cover the sand in windrows of organic debris.
One of these globs of thick algae is actu- ally a green slime. It lies across half of the beach, and if characters do not state that they are avoiding or inspecting the patches of algae, there is a 40% chance that a party member will step in it. Even if the slime is scraped off immediately, the character will take 2-16 points of damage. This slime nor- mally dwells in the muck on the bottom of the lake, but it has been dislodged by the tremors and washed up by the waves.
Green slime: AC 9; MV 0”; HD 2, hp 15; #AT 0; D nil; SA turns flesh into green slime; SD weapons and most spells can- not harm it
B. Enraged Snapper
A giant snapping turtle has just swum up to the beach at this point. It is not yet full grown, but it is a formidable creature none- theless. Normally bad-tempered, this reptile has been whipped into an absolute fury by the changes in its habitat. It is hiding in a pothole at the edge of the water, and will attack any creature that comes within 10 feet, suddenly extending its long neck to bite with its powerful beak. Attacking this way, it will surprise on a 1-4 (46). If creatures pass its position beyond 10 feet away, it will attack regardless, shambling out of its pot- hole in a short but surpising burst of speed (6^).
The snapper's shell is AC 0, but its head, neck, and limbs are armor class 5. If they аге withdrawn into the shell, the extremities become armor class 2. The snapping turtle is too crazed and stupid to know when it is los- ing, and will fight to the death.
If anyone takes an hour to dismember the body, they will find some human or human- like bones, some rotting leather, and a silver bracelet worth 375 gp in its gullet.
Giant turgle: AC 0/5; МУ 3"//2"; HD 6; hp 25; #AT 1; D 3-18
D. Frenzied Goats
This is a large field of grain, now being trampled by a herd of four giant goats. These giant goats were kept in a pen at Dra- chen Keep, but sensing the imminent earth-
quake, they broke out and ran downhill to this field. The slave lords’ men originally captured them in the nearby hills, and had hoped to domesticate them. Their methods consisted of cruelty and mistreatment, and this, combined with the quakes and fires, has driven the goats totally amok. They will charge any people that come within 200 feet of the center of the field, seeing in them their former persecutors. They will not pursue beyond the edges of the field.
Giant goats (4): АС 7; МУ 18”; HD 3 +1; hp 15 each; #AT 1; D 2-16; SA +4 dam- age when charging
D. Squad of Looters
A motley crew of degenerate mercenaries is here making its way up the road toward Drachen Keep, A watchful party, proceding through the woods or farmland with cau- tion and alertness, will hear the ruffians shouting at each other when the characters reach a point within 120 feet of the section of road marked D. The looters will not be visible from this point and the party will be unable to clearly distinguish words or lan- guages. A party that fails to behave cau- tiously or is blindly running will not hear the looters until closing to within 60 feet of them. In these circumstances, the looters themselves will hear the noise of the party's approach and will immediately cease their talking and draw their weapons. The party will thus be unable to surprise the looters. Because of the trees or crops, neither group will be visible to the other at this point. The looters will not leave the roadway to inves- tigate the noise, but will warily continue on their way.
This band is a savage and unsrupulous lot: two town guardsmen, two hobgoblins, a gnoll, an orc archer, a half-orc fighter/ assassin (all of the above in chain mail, the guardsmen with shields), a bandit from Scumslum, and a thief (the latter two in leather armor). Their statistics are given on a table for easy reference.
This unsavory lot was outside Suderham, drinking and gambling, when the earth- quake hit. As the town tumbled down, the thief instantly realized that Drachen Keep must likewise have fallen, and he persuaded the others to go after the great riches they think are kept within. Each is trying to impress the others with his ferocity and toughness, and they will certainly attempt to slay anybody they encounter, just to show each other they can't be pushed around. However, if five of them are slain or otherwise knocked out of the fight, the others will have second thoughts and attempt to flee.
When they attack, the guards, hobgob- lins and gnoll wade right into the melee. The half-orc will try to attack the most powerful party member, while the bandit will be looking for the weakest or most-wounded opponent. The orc archer will try to pick a good spot from which to shoot, and the thief will attempt to slip around to the ene- my's rear to try backstabbing.
The looters have the listed treasure:
Guard #1: 5 gp
Guard #2: 5 gp
Hobgoblin #1: 2 ep, 7 gp, 10 gp gem Hobgoblin #2; 12 gp, 2 pp
Half-orc: 15 gp, 3 sp
Bandit: 2 ep, 8 sp
Thief: 12 ep, 3 pp, 25 gp, 10 sp, 50 gp gem
E. Rampaging Fire Lizard
Here, in a small glade, a fire lizard is thrashing about, rolling on its back and snapping at everything. The party will be able to hear the reptile's frenzied movement and outcries at a distance of 120 feet from the center of the glade. Because of the trees, however, they will be unable to clearly see the cause of the disturbance without ventur- ing to at least the edge of the glade, Any loud noise or quick movement will attract the fire lizard's attention. The wounded creature is covered with patches of burned skin. Aware of its immunity to fire, this huge dragon-cousin became overconfident,
Looters
Looter AC MV HD/LVL hp ЖАТ D Weapon
Guard #1 4 6" Ftr 1 9 1 1-8 long sword
Guard #2 4 6" Ftr 1 6 1 1-8 long sword Hobgoblin #1 5 9” 1%1 8 1 1-8 long sword Hobgoblin £2 5 9" 1*1 7 1 2-8 long sword
Gnoll 5 9" 2 13 1 1-10 two-handed sword Orc 5 6" 1 5 1 1-6 short sword or bow Half-orc 3 6" Ftr3 15 1 1-8 long sword
Bandit 8 9” 0 4 1 1-6 short sword
Thief 6 9" 2 9 1 1-6 short sword
120
and tried to take a bath in molten lava! Its fire-resistant nature kept it from being instantly cooked, but the resultant unaccus- tomed burns sent it rampaging across the island. Now it is attempting to scrape imag- ined tormentors from its skin, If it sees any- one, it will assume that they are its tormentors and attack immediately. It will fight until all its opponents are dead or have fled.
The fire lizard lived in a cave north of Dragon Meadow (see map). The devotees of the Earth Dragon took it for a wingless red dragon and have given it offerings of live- stock regularly. The slave lords allowed it to remain on the island, pretending to have control over the beast and occasionally invoking it as a threat.
Fire Lizard: АС 4; MV 9"; HD 10; hp 23 (45); #AT 3; D 1-8/1-8/2-16; SA breathe puff of flame 10 feet for 2-12 points; SD immune to fire-based attacks
F. Slaves’ Revenge
Here several dozen nearly nude people (obviously ex-slaves) are in the process of impaling their former masters. A few of them are hurriedly making stakes from a stack of logs. Nearby, several struggling overseers and guardsmen are being held, each pinned by several ex-slaves. As soon as a stake is finished, another slaver is brought forth and impaled, and a cheer goes up from the mob.
If the party approaches this group wear- ing few clothes (as they were in the laby- rinth), they will be taken for more escaped slaves, and the mob will let them by as long as they cause no trouble. If the party tries to free the slavers and/or stop the impaling, or if any of the party are wearing clothes obtained from the squad of looters (area D), the most aggressive of the ex-slaves will attack, wielding a motley assortment of knives, daggers, and stone bludgeons.
The statistics of the attacking ex-slaves vary slightly, but for convenience use the average values given. They have no trea- sure. They are subject to normal morale as per the Dungeon Masters Guide, and will flee if things go against them too badly.
A character with high Charisma in a non- hostile party may be able to sway this mob to do as he or she asks, as long as what the character wants will hurt the minions of the slave lords and not endanger the ex-slaves unduly. The DM will have to adjudicate such situations. The slaves certainly want to finish impaling their captives before under- taking another task. They cannot be per-
suaded to attack the slave lords’ boat (at H), as they still fear the slave lords’ power.
Ex-slaves (19 0-level fighters): AC 10; MV 12^; hp 4 each; #AT 1; D 1-4
G. A Friend Indeed
This is the beginning of the docks area. To the west, the rattletrap houses of Scumslum are going up in flames, the fire leaping from one to the next. Northeast is the first dock. Only one boat is tied
there, a small galley emblazoned with a finned dragon. Without warning, à man dressed as a slave lord lieutenant runs toward the party from behind a nearby house, shouting loudly.
This person is one of the guests from Dame Gold's party. He has recognized the player characters and wishes to be rescued. If the party allows him to get within 20 feet without killing him, somebody will recog- nize him from the encounter at the gate.
He is wearing the leather armor with the characteristic slave lords' insignia. During the commotion of the earthquake and erup- tion, he and the other slaves (Dame Gold, etc.) managed to escape from their masters. He "persuaded" a soldier to part with his uniform and has been looking about for a way to escape the island. Dame Gold and the others are not far away, waiting for him to return. Right now, he was hiding out from the ex-slaves, trying to figure out how to capture the Water Dragon before he was either burned, impaled, or eaten by mon- sters.
The Water Dragon is the slave lords' pri- vate galley, the boat at the end of the first dock. He has watched as bodyguards have loaded several crates and treasure chests on the ship. No doubt the slave lords are plan- ning to flee with all their wealth. If they are allowed to escape, they will be able to con- tinue their operations from another head- quarters. Unfortunately, the boat is heavily guarded and the bandit chiefs are getting ready to leave right now.
The fellow will give the party two scrolls he managed to filch from some- where: a clerical scroll of four spells (cure serious wounds and three cure light wounds), and a magic-user's scroll of five spells (sleep, invisibility, strength, dispel magic, and hold person). All spells are at 7th level. He will also give the characters a crystal monocle with a permanent read magic cast on it, to enable the spellcasters of the party to make immediate use of the
121
scrolls.
He then drags the player characters toward a yet unfired part of Scumslum. There, hiding in a filthy hut, are a tired and frightened Dame Gold and company. Under your guidance, they are willing to attempt an escape. None of them will be any use in a dangerous situation, however.
H. The Water Dragon
Tied up to the northwest side of the far end of the pier is the Water Dragon, the slave lords' private galley. It is being readied for immediate departure. A score of bedrag- gled islanders cluster halfway out on the pier, too frightened of the slave lords and their minions to advance any further. Near the end of the pier three guards warily eye the mob. One is an ogre in a suit of banded mail, the other two are sergeants of the slave lords' troops.
Beyond these guards, 14 men are loading and preparing the boat. Eight of these are men-at-arms; the other six are slave lords (see below), The map of this area shows the starting positions of the guards and the slave lords. The remaining slave lords are either dead or missing.
Ogre: AC 2; MV 9"; HD 4+1; hp 20; #AT 1; D 3-12 with two-handed sword Sergeants (2 2d level fighters): AC 4; MV 6"; hp 12,9; ВАТ 1; D 1-8 with long swords Men-at-arms (8 0-level fighters): AC 7; MV 9% hp 5 each; #AT 1; D 1-8 with long swords
If the party approaches the end of the pier (including by swimming—the guards are watching the water very closely for lace- dons), the slave lords order their men-at- arms to back up the guards at the first sign of trouble. At the first indication that the characters are more than just an ill-assorted crowd of mercenaries, the slave lords recog- nize them and immediately spring into coor- dinated action.
The evil high priest, Stalman Klim, will cast offensive spells from the bow of the boat for as long as possible, and then he will leap to the attack. He will start by trying to silence any spell-casters among his oppo- nents. He may command enemies near the edge of the pier or boat to dive. In a pouch at his belt, carefully wrapped up, is a jew- eled idol of the Earth Dragon worth 4,000
gp.
The half-orc fighter/assassin, Theg Narlot, will wade right into the heart of the battle, trusting to his combat ability to
carry him through. He will shout and Charge, trying to attract attention away from the slave lord spell-casters and the thief. Theg is wearing leather armor and a shield. In a pouch at his belt are 50 pp and a diamond worth 1,000 gp (this is his “emer- gency escape fund" pouch). Also in his belt is a scroll listing all of the slave lords agents among the lords of the Gearnat area, and an order for the assassination of all the rela- tives of the adventurers that can be found. The order is signed by Edralve.
The drow fighter/cleric, Edralve, is still one of the Nine, despite the testimony of the player characters. She has powerful connec- tions, explained in Queen of the Spiders, and Stalman's evidence has yet to be exam- ined by these superiors. She knows. how- ever, what he has done and may use this battle as an excuse to be rid of him. Thus, she will do nothing to come to his aid, unless it would cost her own life not to.
Still, the player characters are an immedi- ate threat, so she will try to silence oppo- nent spell-casters. She will then try to cast levitate on the enemy's best fighter and raise him or her 20 feet into the air. She will then join the melee. If at all possible, she will use her charm to urge the player characters into attacking their mutual enemy. In a pocket she has five Drow brooches, each worth 500
EP.
The illusionist, Lamonsten, will cast hyp- notic pattern at the party. He will save his fear spell until he has a clear shot at the party without hitting his allies.
In a water proof case on Lamonsten's back is a deed to mining rights in the hills near Hardby, worth 1,200 gp, and his spell book, which contains the following spells:
First level: change self, detect illusion, detect invisibility, hypnotism, phantas- mal force, wall of fog.
Second level: detect magic, hypnotic pat- tern, invisibility.
Third level: dispel illusion, fear.
Fourth level: improved invisibility, phantas- mal killer.
The thief, Slippery Ketta, will immedi- ately dive overboard and swim under the dock, planning to climb up behind the party at the right moment and backstab some- body. Her normal chance to move silently is 88%, but when wet this will decrease to 68 % . She wears a pair of earrings worth 700 gp each and a jeweled dagger worth 900 gp.
The monk, Brother Kerin, will leap to the dock and into the fray, supporting Theg Narlot. Brother Kerin is unarmed.
Brother Kerin was second-in-command
to Brother Milerjoi, and took his place when his superior died (either in the earthquake or in the fight where the characters were cap- tured, depending on how the DM has handled this). Brother Kerin is the repre- sentative of the Scarlet Brotherhood, which helped finance and set up the slave lords.
Brother Kerin (6th level monk): AC 6; MV 20”; hp 21; #AT 3/2 (open hand); D 2-8; SD feign death, immune to slow; S 15, 112, W 16, D 17, Con 16, Cha 10; AL LE
All of the slave lords will fight to the death, as they are in desperate straits and they know it. Only these six have appar- ently survived the earthquake and the resul- tant chaos. Most of them were wounded in their flight to the docks, and the group's cure spells were all expended in healing some of their wounds. (The half-orc and the cleric are still slightly wounded.) Several of the illusionists' spells were also used in fight- ing their way to the Water Dragon.
Most of the slave lords' riches and equip- ment are buried under tons of rock, but they did manage to grab some of the more valu- able items and bring them along. In a locked wooden chest at the stern of the galley are the following treasures:
* a gold brooch with gems worth 3,000 gp.
* a platinum ring set with a fire opal worth 5,000 gp.
* a gem-studded ceremonial silver dagger of the Earth Dragon cult worth 1,100 gp.
* a scroll of drawings of the demons of the Abyss by the great Drow artist Ool Eurts, worth 900 gp.
* a box of gems, containing 21 moonstones (base 50 gp), 10 pieces of jade (base 100 gp), 5 white pearls (base 100 gp), one black pearl (base 500 gp), a tourmaline (base 100 gp), an amethyst (base 100 gp), a topaz (base 500 gp), and an emerald, (base 1,000 gp).
In addition, all of the equipment taken from the characters when they were cap- tured is stored below in the tiny hold. It was to be sent to the coast to be identified, and eventually sold. The equipment is stored securely among other trade goods (these goods are worth a total of 350 gp).
Finally, also thrown in among the crates is the vial containing the cure the player char- acters were originally supposed to deliver. It is, as yet, still unopened and should retain its potency.
J. Panic at the Docks
There seems to be a huge melee under way on and around these three docks, but it's not always clear who is on whose side, if there are any sides. There are three fishing boats at each of the three long piers. Several more out on the lake are moving toward the far shore and one appears to be capsized. Townsmen, slum-dwellers, guardsmen, ex-slaves, and assorted humanoids are all fighting over possession of these boats. To add to the confusion, a number of grotesque gray-green humanoids are climbing out of the water and falling indiscriminately on the other combatants, biting and clawing them to death. There are at least 200 figures battling it out in this area.
The easternmost pier is a terrible scene of carnage. The boat at the end of the long dock had been taken over by 13 hobgoblins, who were just figuring out how to use the oars, when eight lacedons clambered out of the water and attacked. The battle is still in progress: two lacedons and five hobgoblins are down, and the rest are fighting back and forth in the boat. On the pier, 30 feet away, stands a mixed group of nine humans, watching the battle. If the lacedons win, the humans will flee, but if the hobgoblins win, the humans will attack the weakened squad and attempt to take the boat from them.
Lacedons (6): AC 6; MV 9"//9*; HD2; hp9 each; #AT 3; D 1-3/1-3/1-6; SA paraly- zation
Hobgoblins (8): AC 5; MV 9*; HD 1*1; hp 5 each; #AT 1; D 1-8
A band of slave lords’ mercenaries (16 in all) are contending with 13 city guardsmen over possession of the other two boats. The city guards have been pushed to the end of the dock and are gradually being cut down by the mercenaries. Both groups are 0 level fighters in leather armor (AC 8). Neither group has noticed that the westernmost of the two boats is slowly sinking—a hole was knocked through the side when the guards- men wrested the boat from its original owner,
The middle pier is one huge, swirling melee, strictly every man for himself. Involved are 32 townspeople (0 level), 19 ex-slaves (0 level), 9 men-at-arms (0 level), a thief (level 3), a fighter (level 2), a cleric (level 2), 4 ores, and 3 lacedons who are picking off stragglers and wounded. The northernmost boat has caught fire some-
how. An organized, coordinated group could push its way through this mob, but it would have to fight some of them for pos- session of a boat.
The westernmost pier is a bizarre scene of greed over fear. At the second cross-pier six huge gnolls armed with halberds are holding at bay a mob of nearly a hundred screaming townspeople (0 level). With the gnolls is their leader, a man in black leather armor and shield, who is only allowing people to pass to the boats if they will give him 50 gp or more, Naturally, few of the townspeople are carrying this much wealth. Some of the people are trying to organize a rush on the heavily-armed gnolls, without much suc- cess, while others are fighting and robbing each other to get the 50 gold pieces. At the end of one of the docks, seven people are ripping up the flooring to make a raft. Beneath the pier, four cunning lacedons wait patiently for the rafters to come down to the water.
The lacedon colony normally lives off shore, where they devour the dead bodies (mostly slaves), garbage, and unusable fish parts the town dumps into the lake. Occa- sionally one or two would sneak into Scumslum and grab a derelict, who as likely as not would never be missed. They are tak- ing advantage of the chaos to slay as many of the hated nondead as possible.
Gnolls (6): AC 5; МУ 9"; HD 2; hp 16,15,13,13,12,11; #AT 1; D 1-10 Gnolls' leader (Sth level assassin): АС 7; MV 9°; hp 20; ҒАТ 1; D 1-8 with long sword
K. Ruined Suderham
The guard towers of Suderham have fallen, but the outer walls are mostly intact, except for the south wall, Ugly yellow vapors from the volcano are flowing down the shallow gorge, over
the tumbled south wall, and into the town. Wisps of the ground-hugging gas occassionally pass around the corners of the walled town. Wherever people encounter the vapors, they cough and choke, and flee if they can.
Less than an hour after the beginning of the eruption, Suderham is already a town of the dead. The poisonous gases flowing into the town have asphyxiated all those who could not or would not leave. The vapors are heavier than air, but they are gradually rising as more gas flows down the shallow gorge and is trapped within the walls of the
town. Eventually it will reach the top of the walls and spill over, sending toxic gases out over Scumslum and the docks area.
If any characters are foolish enough to enter into or permit themselves to be envel- oped by these vapors, they suffer the same fate as befell many Suderham unfortunates. The first round of breathing will produce uncontrollable coughing and choking in the victim. For each round thereafter spent in the gases, the character must save vs, poi- son at +2 or die. (The DM can use this threat to spur on the players, if the approaching magmen aren't enough. If the players pass close to the town, they may see enough to make them aware of the danger. If not, they will hear of it from a fleeing citi- zen. It will be dramatic if, just as the party is escaping the island, the vapors start to pour out of Suderham and cover the north end.)
L. Magmen on the March
'There are three magmen at each of these locations. In general, they are having a grand time setting everything they contact on fire. The woods on almost the entire south end of the island are ablaze. Two groups of magmen are igniting the corn and wheat fields west of Suderham. One group has reached the ruins of Drachen Keep, and is gleefully setting the whole place ablaze.
If any creature comes within 30 feet of a magman, the paraelemental will move up to it and attack with its combustion touch. Its purpose is just to have the poor cold crea- ture join the fun of the flaming ones. A magman will pursue for 2-5 rounds, and then become distracted and set something else on fire.
The magmen groups are converging on the northeast part of the island at a rate of 200 feet a turn. Unless something stops them, they will burn the whole island clean and then return to the volcano, before they stiffen from the cold.
Magmen: AC 6; MV 9" (6"); HD 2; hp 9 each; #AT 1; D 3-24; SA combustion touch; SD +1 or better weapon to hit, immune to fire-based attacks
Leaving the Island
The only way to leave the island of the slave lords is by crossing the lake, The rim of the crater lake is 1.5 miles in any direction from the island. The lake surface is choppy with whitecaps. Due to the eruption, the waves are irregular and unpredictable.
If characters try to swim for it, they will find it difficult but not impossible. To swim
the distance successfully, an unencumbered character must roll his or her Constitution score or below on 3d6. (Unencumbered in this context means basically naked. Light, tight clothes and a belt with a dagger are about the limits of this class.) Encumbered characters must roll one-half their Constitu- tion or below (round up) on 3d6. Encum- bered characters will notice the excessive weight and drag of their possessions, and should be given a chance to dump them.
If characters decide to make a raft (assuming reasonable materials are availa- ble), the DM should take into account the approach of fire and gas and decide if they have time to do it. If they succeed in time, it will take them at least two hours to paddle to shore.
If characters commandeer an intact fish- ing boat, they should have no trouble reach- ing shore. If they succeed in capturing the Water Dragon, they will have a harder time of it. The galley sports a small sail, but only characters with sailing experience will be able to handle it properly. If the sail can be used, no more than eight additional people are needed to man the oars, plus one on the rudder, If no one can handle the sail, at least 12 oarsmen will be needed.
It is conceivable that the characters could beat the slave lords across the lake without actually tangling with them first; for exam- ple, by successfully making a raft or com- mandeering a fishing boat. Should this occur, the DM may wish to arrange a meet- ing on the other side of the lake on a road or trail leading to the nearest place of refuge. The DM should take care that if such an encounter does occur, the characters have a reasonable chance of winning (possibly through some anti-slave lord source).
Going Home
Upon reaching the far shore, the player characters have time for a short period of rest and recovery, if desired. However, all through the night Mount Flamenblutt will continue to roar and spew. By morning the sky will be a gray haze of ash. Looking toward Suderham all the characters will see is a roiling haze of poisonous gas. It should be very clear that staying in the crater bowl is suicide.
During the night and the following morn- ing, the player characters discover they are not the only survivors of the catastrophe. Sometimes they.will see powerful groups of armed men rapid-marching to the cleft. Other times they will be hesitantly approached by small bands of slaves or
guards, If the player characters decide to accept leadership, they can gather about them a mixed band of refugees.
Their group will include a little of everything—slaves, merchants, peasants, guardsmen, mercenaries, and even adven- turers, It will also include a variety of align- ments, from lawful good to pure evil. However, a rough truce can be formed for the moment. The player characters will nat- urally be given the role of leaders—for now,
The player characters will be able to assemble a group of 21-40 NPCs. You can select from the types listed or create your own.
Slaves who have managed to escape their captors. These can be of any alignment although good and neutral alignments are more common. All are 0 level humans. All have a deep hatred of their former lords and may have to be restrained from slaughtering their guardsmen traveling companions in the coming journey. For now they will accept the player characters’ judgements.
Mercenaries who arrived with caravans or worked here. They are all neutral or nue- tral evil alignment. They are all 1st level fighters. Their only concern is to get to the coast alive. They are professional enough to know survival will only happen if they work as a group. As such, they will be the most agreeable to following orders, although they will have no respect for incompetents or idiots.
Guardsmen who worked for Suderham or the slave lords. These men are all of evil alignment and the majority are lawful evil. They are 0 level humans with 7-8 hit points. They will cooperate for the same reasons as the mercenaries, but will insist on having their own commander (one of them) whom they will obey, They are all willing to kill former slaves if given the opportunity.
Townspeople who have lost everything in the eruption. These people are generally neutral in alignment. They hold no grudges against anyone and are just looking for pro- tection. They are all 0 level humans.
Encounters on the March
Once the player characters have escaped from the isle of the slave lords, their trou- bles are still far from over. Now they are stranded in the heart of the hostile Pomarj. News of the disaster that has struck the slave lords is sure to travel fast and no friendly reception can be expected from the tribes on the march. Furthermore, the ten- sions in their little band will begin to show, even to the point of violence.
For the journey overland, use the stand- ard encounter tables given in the Dungeon Masters Guide or the encounter tables and encounters given here. Be sure to adjust the size and difficulty of any encounter by the condition of the player characters’ band. A poorly equipped, rag-tag group should not be faced with impossible odds! In addition to the encounters determined by die roll you may wish to consider the following addi- tional problems. These problems are quar- rels and disagreements within the party,
Feuding: Just as the group is settling down for the night, a furious fight breaks out on the far side of the camp. The player characters arrive just in time to prevent the death of an ex-slave by a guardsman. The soldier claims the slave tried to knife him; the ex-slave says the guard was beating him and pushing him around, that he “had it coming to him.” Tempers flare hot on both sides with each group supporting its man. The lead PC is expected to make some deci- sion. If he chooses for one or the other, there will be open rebellion. The best solution is to work out some way of keeping the two groups apart.
Starvation: Feeding this many people is not an easy task, especially since no one thought to bring a lot of food. Foraging will prevent everyone from collapsing, but some of the weaker ones are not so lucky. After about a week's travel, one person a day will collapse on the march. Soon there is grum- bling about the food situation and the char- acters’ leadership. Those lucky enough to find food hoard it and more fights break out. Unless the players can solve this prob- lem, they will be cast out of the band.
Alignments: The situation has thrown together a number of people of widely dif- fering alignments—people who would be blood enemies in normal circumstances. An uneasy truce can hold for only a while, Law- ful types are more likely to cooperate, although lawful goods may become out- raged and hostile to those of evil alignment. Neutrals of all types are likely to stay with the band so long as chances for survival are best with it. Neutral evils will not hesitate to betray the band to the humanoid tribes in exchange for safety, Chaotics are likely to “go it on their own” and chaotic evils will rob the band of any useful equipment before they leave. It is the PCs’ task to keep this dissimilar band together. Of course, when they get to safety, all bets are off.
125
The Rewards of Valor
If the player characters manage to safely return Dame Gold and the other slaves to Safeton, she will not be ungrateful. Aside from having a debt of gratitude from each, Dame Gold will dip into her own resources to reward the player characters. She will provide a monetary reward or non-magical possession to each character. You should decide the scope of the reward as befits the hardships the player characters have under- gone and the general character of your cam- paign. It is not intended that the player characters should leave this adventure empty-handed.
If the player characters have recovered the medicine needed for her brother, Dame Gold will do them the further favor of relieving them from their task. Another messenger will be found. As she explains, she is already in debt enough to the player characters and could not presume on them anymore. If the medicine was not recoy- ered, she is sorrowful for her brother, but does not blame the characters. "After all, you tried all you could, It is not your fault.” she says. However, if there are any paladins in the group, they must examine their own consciences carefully. Did they do enough? Could they have done more? Such questions may require atonement on their part.
Listed below, are the statistics and crucial information concerning the nine slave lords of the Inner Council. In addition to these nine, there are a number of minor slave lords who handle important operations in the field. However, these nine decide all matters of policy.
When the slave lords are encountered at the docks, spells, magical items, and hit points listed in parentheses are not available to them.
Eanwulf
Human 10th level fighter, neutral evil Str 18/25 Dex 15 Con 16 Int 15 Wis 12 Cha 18
Hit Points: 90 Armor Class: -1 Abilities: 3/2 attacks/round +3 damage bonus for Strength Equipment: scimitar +2, chain mail +2, shield +2, heavy crossbow, throwing axe.
Nerelas
Human 11th level assassin, neutral evil Str 16 Dex 17 Con 13
Int 14 Wis 17 Cha 15
Hit Points: 58 Armor Class: 2
Abilities: backstab x4, move silently 75%, hide in shadows 61%
Equipment: /ongsword +1, dagger * 1 (poi- soned with insinuative poison, 35 hp damage if save vs. poison is failed, no additional damage for successful save), leather armor +1, potion of invisibility
Stalman Klim
Human 11th level cleric, neutral evil
Str 15 Dex 17 Con 13 Int 14 Wis 17 Cha 11 Hit Points: (52) 31 Armor Class: 3
Abilities: *3 on saving throw vs. mental attacks
Equipment: footman's mace +2, bracers of defense AC 6, (ring of spell storing with ward of recall)
Spells: (detect good, light, penetrate dis- guise, resist fire, slow poison, meld into stone, negative plane protection, protec- tion from good 10° radius, flame strike, blade barrier.) cure light wounds, sanc- шағу, chant, silence 15” radius, contin- ual light, feign death, tongues,
divination, true seeing
The Slave Lords
Ajakstu
Human 9th level magic-user, lawful evil Str 13 Dex 17 Con 11 Int 18 Wis 10 Cha 14
Hit Points; 32 Armor Class 5
Equipment: dagger +1, cloak of protection +2, staff of power (3 charges), crystal ball with clairaudience, ring of spell stor- ing holding dispel magic, shocking grasp, wall of force (all level 9)
Spells: armor, identity, magic missile, taunt, esp, irritation, scare, blink, fireball, slow, Еуага5 black tentacles, cone of cold, polymorph self
Edralve
Drow 5th level fighter/4th level cleric, chaotic evil
Str9 Dex 16 Con 17 Int 17 Wis 11 Cha 17
Hit Points: 20 Armor Class: 5
Abilities: +2 saving throw vs. magic, 40% magic resistance, dancing lights, faerie fire, darkness 15° radius, detect magic, know alignment, levitate, clairvoyance, detect lie, suggestion, dispel magic (all usable once per day); -2 to hit, +2 to be hit, and AC 7 in bright daylight
Equipment: black leather armor, black shield, ring of warmth
Spells: (cause fear, detect good, resist cold, chant, spiritual hammer, blindness, dis- pel magic, giant insect, (silence 15* radius)
Brother Milerjoi
Human 9th level monk (as in Oriental Adventures), lawful evil
Str 15 Dex 15 Con 13 Int 14 Wis 15 Cha 11 Hit Points: 35 Armor Class: 3
Abilities: +4 points of damage with weapon; Martial arts—#AT 2, D 2d6 * 1; Special maneuvers—missile deflection, fall, flying kick, circle kick; Move silently 70%, Hide in shadows 56%, Sur- prise 18%, ESP resistance 80%; immune to haste, slow; feign death, heal 4-7 points/day, reduce magical damage to 0 on successful save (half damage if save is failed) nine times per day, 50% immune to charm, hypnosis, and suggestion.
Equipment: dagger
Theg Narlot
Half-orc 7th level fighter/7th level assassin, lawful evil
Str 17 Dex 12 Con 17 Int 16 Wis 12 Cha 7 Hit Points: (53) 35 Armor Class: 7
Abilities; #АТ 3/2, +1 to hit and damage, backstab x3, move silently 55%, hide in shadows 43%
Equipment: leather armor, longsword (poi- soned, save vs, poison *4 or 15 hit points of damage in 2-5 rounds, full damage on first hit and half damage on second hit, no additional damage on any hit thereafter. Theg can recoat the sword in 1 round from supply on belt), 5 dag- gers
Lamonsten the Lazy Human 8th level illusionist, lawful evil
Str 7 Dex 17 Con 15 Int 16 Wis 10 Cha 12 Hit Points: 21 Armor Class: 7
Equipment: dagger +1, cloak of displace- ment
Spells: (detect invisibility, hypnotism, phantasmal force, detect magic, dispel illusion, improved invisibility), hypnotic pattern, invisibility, fear
Slippery Ketta
Human 10th level thief, neutral evil Str 10 Dex 18 Con 12 Int 15 Wis 13 Cha 16
Hit Points: 30 Armor Class: 2
Abilities: backstab x4, move silently 88%, hide in shadows 7346
Equipment: longsword, leather armor +2, gauntlets of swimming and climbing
Pre-Generated Player Characters
The following player characters are based on the original characters used in the Slave Lords tournament.
Elwita
Dwarven 7th level fighter, lawful good Str 17 Dex 11 Con 18 Int 12 Wis 8 Cha 15
Hit Points: 54 Armor Class: 1
Abilities: ҒАТ 3/2, +1 to hit and damage
Equipment: war hammer +2, shield +1, plate mail, heavy crossbow, dagger
“Ogre”
Human 8th level fighter, neutral good Str 18/56 Dex 12 Con 18 Int 8 Wis 9 Cha 6
Hit Points: 57 Armor Class; 1
Abilities: #АТ 3/2, +2 to hit, +3 to damage
Equipment: longsword +1, splint mail +2, shortbow, throwing knife
Freda
Human 6th level ranger, chaotic good Str 15 Dex 17 Con 17 Int 13 Wis 15 Cha 14
Hit Points: 40 Armor Class: -2
Abilities: +6 damage vs. giant class, +2 to hit with missile weapons, surprise 5096, surprised on 1 in 6, tracking
Equipment: longsword, long bow, 8 arrows +2, dagger, spear, chain mail +3, potion of healing
Karraway
Human 7th level cleric, lawful good Str 9 Dex 15 Con 16 Int 12 Wis 16 Cha 13
Hit Points: 45 Armor Class: 1
Abiliites: Spells as chosen by player
Equipment: footman's mace, hammer, plate mail, shield, potion of clairaudience, scroll with raise dead
Blodgett
Halfling 7th level thief, neutral good Str 8 Dex 18 Con 16 Int 10 Wis 10 Cha 6
Hit Points: 30 Armor Class: 3
Abilities: +3 to hit with missile weapons
Equipment: short sword, dagger, sling, leather armor, ring of protection *1, boots of elvenkind
Dread Delgath
Human 7th level magic-user, chaotic good Str 8 Dex 9 Con 16 Int 18 Wis 12 Cha 15
Hit Points: 31 Armor Class: 6
Abilities: spells chosen by player
Equipment: dagger, staff, bracers of defense AC 6, wand of fire (4 charges)
128
Phanstern
Human 7th level illusionist, neutral good Str 8 Dex 18 Con 16 Int 17 Wis 12 Cha 9
Hit Points: 29 Armor Class: 6
Abilities: spells chosen by player, +3 to hit with missile weapons
Equipment: silver dagger, potion of extra- healing, scroll of blindness and blur
Eljayess
Half-elf 4th level cleric/4th level fighter, chaotic good
Str 16 Dex 12 Con 17
Int 9 Wis 16 Cha 13
Hit Points: 28 Armor Class: 2
Abilities: +1 to damage, spells chosen by player
Equipment: spear +1, longbow, hammer, long sword, plate mail, shield, potion of speed
Kayen Telva
Elf 4th level fighter/4th level magic-user, chaotic good
Str 15 Dex 16 Con 15
Int 17 Wis 10 Cha 9
Hit Points: 25 Armor Class: 2
Abilities: +1 to hit with missile weapons, spells chosen by player
Equipment: long sword, longbow, hand axe, dagger, javelin of piercing (x2), chain mail, shield, scroll with hold portal and suggestion
ча
SCOURGE of the SLAVELOROS
Map Booklet
pi. ЧЕРДИ ЭРМЕН v. occu see Ed HE Y V. 1 pare PAINE о re ante 2 po: The Shavers’ біссіздіе..................... 3 р 4: The Slavers' Dungeon .................... 4 р 5: Dungeon Коот12........................ 5 р.б: Dungeon Room22 ... Leere әнә ewe veer 5 pA bor MOM SoG. Ab evene tSc 5 Саме euer deed mese E CREE 6 p Oo RbomS o И RE ENS 7 DIU Room vere Ара 7 DAT КОЮДАН УУ а шее Йй» н O СОО 7 pix ROOM РЕ ое CENTRES 7
Map 13: Map 14: Map 15: Map 16: Map 17: Map 18: Map 19: Map 20: Map 21: Map 22: Map 23: Map 24:
Isle of the Slave Lords ................... 8 City oESüderham! ria SEE veces 9 Sewers of Suderham ................... 10 The Dungeons of the Slave Lords ........ 11 АТА ose tole one е ее PTT 12 PRCA lOe IET DAP ETC SE Seale eek aoe 12 The Water Dragon sosca c ree 13 ее Кы Б. 13 УУЛӨР О ы clesie TERIS 14 ЕВ MISSAE енда »А ины TT 15 СЕНЕН Inbe оаа евон ыы 15 ity: ООО са 16
©1986 TSA Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Map 2: The Temple
im
опе square equals 10 feet
©1986 TSA Inc. All Rights Reserve:
ap 3: The Slavers' Stockade
CURTAIN WALL 3rd FLOOR
ла Оен ШИ _ X3-B-mcumc е са == 38.
GATEHOUSE 2nd FLOOR
штп ЕН ec |
EH AFAA т
22
а BE: CA
^
3
15 IBN RUNI rT. "иш ip
3] 37
GUARD ROOFED POST PORCH TRAP DOOR MURDER HOLES FLOOR Е RAMPART TRAP DOOR BALLISTA М; 5 я CEILING Nine w zx. ARROW SLIT: STAIRWAY 525% мур = DOWN = М CURTAIN STAIRWAY UP | 21 BROKEN ijj STONE DOOR DRAWBRIDGE £5 BUSHES c2 INDOW LOFT, WITH | TREE = LADDER UP ом ы PORTCULLIS COVERED PIT FOUNTAIN
DOUBLE DOOR LATRINE SECRET DOOR м gene photo PILLARS one square equals 10 feet PLACE/ CONCEALED RAILING FIRE DOOR | FURNACE AR NDERGROUND > BURNT NY 2 WELL ^| TIMBERS
*1986 TSA Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Map 4: The Slavers' Dungeon
Es
Eral L7
one square equals 10 feet DOOR ШШ STAIRS UP
SECRET STAIRS - $ = DOOR ИШТ DOWN
CONCEALED C DOOR = РН алла CURTAIN
PILLAR
MAGNET | ! | BARS
©1986 TSA Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Map 5: Dungeon Room 12 Map 7: Fort Room 35
BUGBEAR
GOBLIN
LEADER
MAN
OWL BEAR
RABID WOLF
WORG (WOLF)
HOBGOBLIN
WEREBOAR
FIREPIT
$1985 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved
Map 8: Cave
300 feet to room 5
one square equals 10 feet
©1986 TSR inc. All Rights Reserved.
Map 9: Room 9
one square equals 10 feet
PILLAR
GNOLL
RUST MONSTER/ ANKYLOSAURUS
ILLUSIONARY GHOUL
ILLUSIONARY GNOLL WALL OF GLASS
THRONE
(AND ILLUSIONIST)
HYENADON
HOLE
STOROPER
*1986 TSR Inc, All Rights Reserved.
Map 13: Isle of the Slave Lords
™
IT ы | Farming; ТМ)
ZZ E SE 209) Slave Lords |
mh SS «= эш o
ШЕВ 25 КЕШТЕ ЕУ
UI! 157 de Е Act cet LIN ве
ЕЕ Burning land/lava flow Lo] Forest
an^ М. ИГ Jmm
©1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reservec
ap 14: City of Suderham
+ Enter tas — == Direction of Patroling Guards
p E GA Rr.
E іш E ec] Е Ба BENEHLGRER шш p | аһ a LH L1] Г] an ET TT ‘ae iff TA E ШЕ ET] iti [13 a Ез "n iiam prs 11 El ТЕЛА ЕШ E] в ii an еш a E p: mu RE Е м [1 zu ГЕ a * № Е [7] Г Г] [ЕТЕ Еш m Li ГД ЕШ ГГ] EEG TEREA THIRD T Ен fim Q En B ШЕ і HEH -ГН ГІЛ 5| ЕЕ! aim таша LT еы ШТИ) ali = ШШ Goi mi gee ШІП z эч] Be ен] а р ШИШ үү 188 mR ARA ê ADIR ттр ЕРГІТІРІІЗЕГІН Yio (eh tan ЕЕ ишни чишип ӘТЕІТІСТІЗЕІІҢ ЕГЕТ ГГ ЕНІ Sgt iat a Pa & RE He H s J.B Т LE EU те BH dua ama i БЕ EN = ЇЙ ЇЙ Î б И i Е ШЕ B Е Г] [5 rm EE LES # Г] Ri НВ H EE — ав a "n FM: "P Wo Ев tsi
ше
ae e) ES а | a RES ERES шш ШЕ
one square equals 10 feet
Map 15: Sewers of Suderham
= н оо ELTE ||| ее FITTINGS i’ SERRE:
Spiral Staircase
Е 1 £
o
Dropping Wall
one square equals 10 feet
| 8
+++ H t | 4
"EL r^ 21
277 i
o
—] Ant Bridge 234% Myconid Village Mr,
Chasm Pool Se
пр? " Lair of the Sandling SS Underground Pool
one square equals 10 feet
*1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Map 17: Area 6
Map 18: Area 10
beach
: к C me p | Map 49: The Water Dragon e 2 _ _ p NE i QUK
jn ^ AN RN TUE 52% i oa ole ANA
у, КУК o ;
ТЕТІ
£e d: SEES |
g
ian BERE ABE. Me
y HE ер: * UMP OF (222, ` cick Sige әс Y
POEL CC ГЕП
©1986 TSR Inc. А!! Rights Reserved.
{ Map 21: vea в: B T ы dps
ze. BEC وو‎ dE x
ÍHOMMLET ; 4 ©. S de e г, ЛАУ" do Va р А
S EROK KE ia Ca me, А EE 20 EE BE ES i 522 5814
а hu ; : и: 3 МА Жс. у SN
ICA i e a CERES wt, 5 © ыл уч Otis SUDERHAM _ пара е
ж ШТ.
14
Ma 22: Raide REMISE EAR Be UR ae Cee БЛ UE ZI ap iders PFET TITE алша И 52 i ЕРІГІШ Баласа aS SSTL TN ПЕРЕ I Do plate aS NES
au uu 2 ENE Be
EN
an ШЕР; Р” Ке ||| | |
MN
A'i
AL | Characters camp 7/7 NE
m hdi dod 5: Ha ЕН == LV A |
SE
ees RESET ра
p s PRT ye pase апааа e ee
ЕЕ EE ЕК E 22201 f | aves
Underground == Bridge == Stream еге Huts
ATN Contour Line
hey sb CA
Ja
eet HHHH ЕНЕ НИ ЕЕ" ШЕГІН
ree BEERV/AFSEHBE p egg at tH бпе squarg/équals 10 yards |
21986 TSA Inc. All Rights Reserved. 15
Map 24: City Geomorphs
S - Services
R = Ruins
G = Government P = Private
one square equals 10 feet
9167XXX0701 ©1986 TSA Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Advanced Dungeonsf;Dragons:
OFFICIAL GAME ADVENTURE
SCOURGC of the
SLAVELOROS
by David Cook, Allen Hammack, Harold Johnson, Tom Moldvay, Lawrence Schick, and Edward Carmien
“...ап Adventure to Challenge the Bold...”
Screams echo in the night, the charred rem- nants of a village are mute by day. From the decaying lands of the Pomarj, slavers have struck again!
The adventure that began in the Temple of Elemental Evil now sweeps southward across the Wild Coast and into the desolate lands of the inhuman Pomarj. Slave raiders scour the countryside, leaving death and destruction in their wake. Daring adventurers strike into the heartland of the foe to harry the villains and bring retribution and justice to the land.
This product contains the completely revised Aerie of the Slavelords series of adven- tures. Also included are new challenges and new scenarios detailing the Wild Coast, the city of Highport, the blasted lands of the Pomarj and the Drachensgrab Mountains.
With the beginning found in Temple of Ele- mental Evil, your campaign adventure can lead characters from 7th level all the way to 11th and beyond! Hours of adventure and excite- ment lie between these covers!
© 1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in the U.S.A.
TSR Inc TSR ак Ltd. POB 756 The Mill, Rathmore Road Lake Geneva, Cambridge CB1 4AD WI 53147 United Kingdom
0-88038-275-9 ISBN 394-55419-1TSR1500
| | | | 46363"09 167
9167XXX1401
