Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Threshold #3"
See other formats
#3 




"CllG Mystana MagaziNe 



The Sea of Dread 




The third issue of Mystara's premier magazine, featuring 
articles on the Sea of Dread ! History of the Islands, Rise of the 
Firelord, dark places to explore, and much more! 





On the Shores of the Island of Dread (by I. Calvin): This piece was commissioned several 
months ago from my daughter, who up until that point had never seen the cover of XI 
(either version) . I gave her a vague description about a knight fighting a T-Rex on the shores 
of a jungle island, and this is what she came up with. Only after the piece was completed, 
did I show her the originals. I think she's done them justice! 

John Calvin 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ISSUe CONtGNtS 




Issue #3 

Editorial 1 

This Issue's Contributors 3 

Remembering Aaron Allston 5 

The History of Ierendi and Minrothad 7 

Minrothad Merchant-Prince 32 

Ierendian Government and Aristocracy 36 

The Minor Islands of the Sea of Dread 59 

Mystaranomicon 76 

Bararna Island 80 

The Empire of the Firelord 90 

Maxime Beaulieu's Mystara 110 

The Demography of Ierendi & Minrothad 120 

The Darkness Beneath 174 

Timeline of the Sea of Dread 191 

The Akropolis of Kotesh 201 

Thyatian Senators 209 

"CiMe's Travels . 234 

Artwork Sources and Credits 236 

Next Issue 243 



Threshold: The Mystara Magazine is a non-commercial, fan-produced magazine. There is no 
intention to infringe on anyone's rights, and in particular not on those of Wizards of the Coast, 
which holds all rights to the original material on which the magazine is based. 











THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 




Issue #3 



EOitonial 




Of Pirates, Merchant-Princes and Sea Monsters 




The Sea of Dread. For those living on or near the coastal waters 
off the shores of southern Brun, the name evokes darkness, danger, 
and terrors unknown. The Sea of Dread is treacherous, and vast. . . 
and even those of us who only write tales about it have experienced 
its terrible grandeur. 

Although I have been a fan of Mystara for as long as I can remember, 
and even contributed to fanzines like the Tome of Mystara in the 
past, nothing could have prepared me for traversing these uncertain 
waters in Threshold Issue #3. When I began my journey in 
November by asking the community for contributions, I wasn't sure 
we would have an issue at all. My fear was that the grand onslaught 
of holidays fastly approaching would drown out anyone's time, 
enthusiasm, and energy to prepare an article for submission, and 
when I had to extend the proposal deadline by two weeks in 
December, my fears seemed to be proving true. As we approached 
the final deadline in late January, still with no manuscripts 
submitted, I was very worried indeed. I was sure we wouldn't have 
more than 20 pages to put in this issue. 

That couldn't have been further from the truth. When storms hit 
in the Sea of Dread, they hit hard, and final manuscripts began to 
pour in just as I had lost all hope. Instead of the drought I feared 
however, I was presented with a maelstrom of biblical proportions. 
It soon became clear that we had too much material to fit into a 
single issue. In fact we may have too much material to fit into two 
issues. . . but we are going to try to do it! 

In this issue we'll sail through the waters of Minrothad and Ierendi, 
delving into their past and exploring how those two countries 
developed into the nations they are today. We will set foot on the 
strange shores of the Thanegioth Archipelago meeting some of 
their twisted inhabitants, cross swords with pirates and catch glimpse 
of the dangerous game they play. Well discover plots in Minrothad, 
see the rise of the Firelord, and much, much more. But our 
adventures won't end there. The Sea of Dread will return in Issue 
#4, where our adventures across these treacherous waves will 
continue. 

I think when all of this is over, I'm going to need a vacation. 
Hmmm. . . I hear Bararna Island is nice this time of year. 

John Calvin (Chimpman) 
Editor-in-chief, Threshold Issue #3 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



EOitouial 




EOitotual CRGbits 



Threshold Editorial Team: 

Allan Palmer (AllanP) 
Andrew Theisen (Cthulhudrew) 
CmdrCorsiken (Troy Terrell ) 
Francesco Defferrari (Sturm) 
Giampaolo Agosta (Agathokles) 
Havard 

Jesper Andersen (Spellweaver) 
John Calvin (Chimpman) 
Robert Nuttman (RobJN) 
Simone Neri (Zendrolion) 

Thorfinn Tait (Thorf) - Editor Emeritus 

THRESHOLD logo designed by Thorf 



Editor-in-Chief, Issue 3: 

John Calvin (Chimpman) 

Layout: 

Allan Palmer (AllanP) 
Art: 

Andrew Theisen (Cthulhudrew) 
Giampaolo Agosta (Agathokles) 
John Calvin (Chimpman) & I. Calvin 
Thorfinn Tait (Thorf) 

Cartography: 

Simone Neri 
John Calvin 
Francesco Defferrari 



Thanks To: The Mystara Community, for your support, hard work, and dedication to Mystara. 



The aims of Threshold magazine: 

? to provide a venue for community members to present material 

? to promote the Vaults of Pandius and the material there 

? to increase the exposure of existing and new articles 

? to encourage authors to revisit and revitalise existing articles 

? to motivate interest in Mystara in general 




The My: :.n:.i 



Vagus of Pan (lias 




Issues #1 and #2 of THRESHOLD - 
the Mystata Magazine, is available for 
download from the Vaults of Pandius 
website . 

Also available at the same location are 
higher resolution versions of the maps 
that were included in the issue's PDF, 
allowing greater detail to be viewed. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Cftis Issue's CoNtnibutons 




TlllS ISSUe'S CONtRlfcUtORS 



Colin Wilson was introduced to Mystara by 
his elder brother at around the age of eight. 
Due to an unhealthy desire for minutiae he 
fell in love the Gaz series and so developed an 
unfortunate habit of worldbuilding in his spare 
time. Colin continues to develop Mystara 
articles in between publishing articles on 
Doctor Who, raising two children, acting, 
singing, tap dancing and, very occasionally, 
turning up for work. 

Simone Neri (Zendrolion) teaches history 
and philosophy at secondary school in 
Florence, Italy. He has mastered Mystara 
campaigns since 1987, his favourite settings 
being Thyatis, Norwold, Karameikos, and 
Glantri. He is an active member of The Piazza 
community with the nickname of Zendrolion 
- but don't fear backstabbing from him! 

Jesper Andersen (a.k.a. Spellweaver) has 
been a fan of the Known World and Mystara 
since his first D&D game in 1991. He enjoys 
creating new adventures, stories, characters 
and monsters, much of which can be found at 
the Vault of Pandius. His latest personal 
adventure, however, is the launch of his own 
RPG publishing company called Blood 
Brethren Games. 

In his house at The Piazza, Cthulhudrew (a.k.a. 
Andrew Theisen) waits, dreaming. "That 
campaign world is not dead, which can eternal 
lie; and with strange aeons, Mystara shall once 
again rise." 

Giampaolo Agosta (a.k.a. Agathokles) agrees 
with Schiller that man "is only completely a 
man when he plays". Therefore, he makes a 
point of taking gaming seriously, and real life 
casually. Besides Mystara, his gaming interests 
include (among others) Dark Sun, Planescape, 



Ravenloft, Birthright, Call of Cthulhu, and 
Witchcraft RPG. 

I. "Meandrathel" Calvin enjoys drawing 
fantasy, and animals that can kill. Namely 
wolves, dragons, horses, and most large 
felines. Human animal hybrids are not 
excluded either; she often draws human 
versions of her favorite animals. She does, 
however, despise drawing things that are 
unbearingly cute. It's a pretty awful thing to 
do. 

John Calvin has been fascinated by the world 
of Mystara since he first opened the Red Box. 
He also has several boxes full of LEGOs, 
which he still pulls out and plays with on 
occasion. 

Even though Sturm (a.k.a. Francesco 
Defferrart) loves any alternate world, he 
believes Mystara is incomparably the best for 
its vibrant community endlessly delving into 
ethnography, linguistics and history just to 
make a little sense of it. Something like the 
real world, but with dragons. 

Giulio Caroletti started playing in Mystara 
with the old red box in 1992, and hasn't 
stopped since. He went "internet" on the MML 
as Captain Iulius Sergius Scaevola in 1999, 
and has since written mostly about Thyatis 
and Dwarves. When not busy pretending to 
be a Thyatian officer, he lives a boring life as 
an atmosphere physicist from Rome, Italy. 
His main interests are light-eyed girls, soccer 
(he's an AS Roma fan) and rock music 
(especially 70s progressive rock) . 

Geoff Gander has been heavily involved in 
the Mystaran community for longer than he 
cares to remember. He has since been 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciiis Issue's CoNtnibutons 




Tliis Issue's CoNtRifcutORS 



published by Solstice Publishing, Metahuman 
Press, AE SciFi, and Expeditious Retreat Press. 
He primarily writes horror and dark fantasy, 
but is willing to give anything a whirl. When 
he isn't writing or toiling on a cube farm, Geoff 
spends his time reading, entertaining his two 
boys, watching British comedies, playing 
roleplaying games, and travelling. Not at the 
same time. 

Ville Lahde is an author and a journalist 
specializing in environmental issues, 
philosophy and politics - and lately also food 
and gardening. He has been DMing in Mystara 
since 1988, and his first campaign is still going 
strong after a quarter of a century. In the 80's 
and 90's he published a host of modules and 
articles in Finnish RPG zines. 



Maxime Beaulieris first roleplaying session 
was literally on a dark and stormy night; July 
14th 1987. A few years later he discovered 
Mystara (The best Gazetteers? The Five Shires 
and The Principalities of Glantri!) and he has 
since DMed his friends in the different 
incarnations of D&D as well as many other 
games (Mage and Warhammer among 
others). His dream? Actually getting to PLAY 
in a Mystara campaign. 

Troy Terrell (CmdrCorsiken) has regularly 
adventured in Mystara for thirty years. He 
occassionally joins the struggle against the 
Galactic Empire (Star Wars) and explores new 
worlds in the Frontier (Star Frontiers). 
Beyond roleplaying, he enjoys a variety of 
table and board games, including Dominion, 
Lords of Waterdeep, and Munchkin. 



FROM 

THE VAUIXS 
OF PANDIUS 



A number of features in this issue of Threshold carry a 
"From the Vaults of Pandius" tagline. As one of our 
stated aims is "to promote the Vaults of Pandius and the 
material there", we hope you will enjoy these revised 
or extended treasures from that website. 



youR OPINIONS? 



The Editorial Team welcomes your feedback 
on this issue of THRESHOLD are welcomed. 
Please post your comments either by posting 
in The Piazza Forums 



Or by email to the Editorial address: 
Threshold . My stara(5) gmail .com 

Please begin the subject line with the tag 
"[LETTER]" 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ReivieMbettiNQ AanoN AiistoN 




Aaron Allston was a fundamental part of the 
world of Mystara as we at Threshold have 
come to know it, in addition to being a great 
creative mind and prolific writer outside of 
the RPG industry. He will be missed, but 
not forgotten. 

Allen Varney originally shared some 
thoughts about Aaron on Google + and was 
kind enough to allow us to reprint them 



Novelist and game designer Aaron Allston has 
died in Branson, Missouri, age 53. Cause of 
death is currently unknown, but Aaron 
suffered a massive heart attack in March 2009 
and bouts of poor health thereafter. Aaron was 
an endlessly inventive creator, one of the best 
roleplaying gamemasters ever, a mordant 
authority on bad films, and a rare wit. 

Though he later became well known for his 
many licensed tie-in novels for Star Wars, 
Terminator, and other franchises, Aaron 
started in the plantation fields of gaming, 
editing Space Gamer magazine for Steve 
Jackson Games and writing a lot for Car Wars. 
He achieved early stardom in roleplaying 
games with his standout work for Champions 
and the Hero System; his Lands of Mystery 
lost-worlds supplement for Justice Inc. 
pioneered the idea of tailoring rules and 
setting to match genre conventions. Aaron's 
Strike Force remains, after decades, one of the 
most engaging and thoroughly grounded 
treatises on the development and maintenance 
of a long-term campaign. He wrote from 
experience, having refereed three different 



years-long Hero campaigns with months-long 
waitlists. 

Equally recognized for his extensive 
contributions to BECMI-series Dungeons & 
Dragons, Aaron wrote hugely for the Known 
World (later christened "Mystara"), and he 
edited the fondly remembered Rules 
Cyclopedia. His AD&D Dungeon Masters 
Design Kit was an amazing toolbox, one of 
the first of its kind, and his Complete Fighters 
Handbook set the tone for the long-running 
AD&D 2e "Player's Handbook Reference" 
series. 

Aaron also contributed to several computer 
RPGs from Origin Systems, including the 
"Worlds of Ultima" games Savage Empire and 
the primordial steampunk precursor Martian 
Dreams. He brought his highly developed 
sense of genre conventions to a company best 
known for open-ended worlds. The 
combination was an artistic success but a 
financial disappointment. Though he worked 
intermittently in computer games throughout 
the '90s, Aaron seldom played them himself 
and never really warmed to the field. 

In 1988 Aaron turned to novels with Web of 
Danger, a tie-in for TSR's Top Secret S.I. RPG 
line. A decade later he started writing for the 
Star Wars X-Wing novel line almost by 
accident. His X-Wing predecessor, Michael A. 
Stackpole, recommended Aaron to his 
Bantam Books editor as a likely candidate to 
continue writing the series. After Mike and 
the editor both left the line, the next editor 
saw Aaron's name and assumed he had 
already been chosen. Months later the new 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ReMGMbeniNQ AanoN AiistoN 




editor called Aaron's agent and asked "How's 
Aaron coming along on the new X-Wing book?" 
Huh, whah? In two days Aaron put together 
an outline for his seventh novel, Wraith 
Squadron, and then wrote the book at speed 
against a ferocious deadline. He went on to 
write a dozen more. 

Aaron enjoyed a high reputation among 
connoisseurs of Star Wars fiction. He once 
told me he seemed to be everyone's third- 
favorite Star Wars author - every reader had 
two top faves, always different, but they all had 
Aaron in the #3 spot. 

Aaron's non-licensed novels include Galatea 
in 2-D and a delightful pulp-faerie mashup, 
Doc Sidhe. (The sequel is Sidhe-Devil.) In 
recent years Aaron had turned to short fiction 
and was excited with the success he'd found 



contributing to several high-profile small- 
press anthologies. 

A lifelong lover of genre film, Aaron made a 
foray into screenwriting and directing in 2005 
with the zombie rom-com Deadbacks. He 
assembled dozens of friends and local actors 
as a full-on low-budget indie production 
company, and they filmed for a couple of 
months of weekends on a friend's farmland 
in Lockhart, Texas. He completed production, 
but the project died in editing. It would be 
nice to think that fun and funny film, like its 
ever-hopeful undead farmhand characters, 
might rise again. It is so sad Aaron won't. 

Allen Varney, Feb 27, 2014 



http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron_Allston 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotliaO 




the HisroRy OF 





aND 

Part One: From the Great Rain of Fire to the Middle Centuries 

by Simone Neri (Zendrolion) 



'CHE AQES BEyOND 
MEMORy 

Thousands of years ago, the island nations of 
Ierendi and Minrothad didn't even exist; they 
were not islands at all, but emerged lands, 
part of the southeasternmost coast of the 
continent of Brun. Before the Great Rain of 
Fire, however, the whole area sat inside the 
Arctic Polar Circle 1 : it was a cold, barren and 
inhospitable land, devoid of any true 
settlement or civilization, and only 
occasionally crossed by the sparse Beastmen 
survivors of the Blackmoorian crusades, by 
Oltec or Azcan pioneers coming from the 
south, or by the very rare explorer from 
Blackmoor itself. Frost giants and dragons 
from further north made short forays into this 
area from time to time. 

The Great Rain of Fire changed all this, 
pushing the Known World from the arctic 
latitude into the temperate one. Northern 
glaciers began to melt, giving birth to ponds 
and rivers, and the country where the later 
archipelagos of Ierendi and Minrothad would 
later be found was slowly carpeted with 
forests and vegetation. 



For an understanding of the author's position about 
precataclysmic Mystara, see Threshold issue 1 , The History 
of Karameikos, note 1, page 37. 



THE TAyMORAN ACJE 

After the cataclysm, the coast of southeastern 
Brun continued to be rather sparsely settled. 
Its most numerous dwellers were the 
lizardmen - perhaps fled from the fall of one 
of their ancient realms further north 2 - and 
groups of copper-skinned humans called 
Oteino, whose origin is uncertain; they might 
have been the descendants of the late Azcans, 
migrated in the Sea of Dread area starting 
from BC 2800, after their homeland further 
west had been ravaged by the cataclysm and 
by the final war against their long-time rivals, 
the Oltecs, or they could even be the 
descendants of a much older Oltec migration 
predating the Great Rain of Fire. Whatever the 
Oteino' s origin, in this age they carried on (or 
had reverted to) a mostly simple and primitive 
lifestyle 3 . 

2 

This is a reference to the lizardman Empire of Mogreth, a 
fan creation of G. Gander; the empire was found in present 
day Ylaruam, and would be the so-called "Second Empire" 
of Mogreth (the first would have been the reptilian 
civilization mentioned in GAZ2 The Emirates of Ylaruam as 
the source of the ancient lizardman tombs found beneath 
Alasiyan sands). 

The Makai are considered a Neathar-descended people 
(actually, one of the original tribes of the Neathars) in 
Hollow World Campaign Setting, whereas the Poor Wizard's 
Almanac books say they have an Oltec ancestry. Thus, the 
best solution seemed to make them a mix of Neathar- and 
Oltec-descended peoples (also because they should 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Histony of ieneNfci aNO MiNuofliat) 




Increasingly numerous was instead a second 
human race of Neathar stock, the Eokai. 
Centuries before the Great Rain of Fire, those 
humans lived in the Serpent Peninsula; from 
there, perhaps pushed away by other peoples 
or by overpopulation, starting after BC 3500 
they had slowly migrated on board their boats 
to the northern coast of Davania and to the 
islands and archipelagos of what would be 
later called the Sea of Dread. By BC 2500, 
many tribes of those humans had also settled 
on the southeastern coast of Brun, in lands 
alongside those of the Oteino and the 
lizardmen. They were a peaceful people of 
gatherers and fishermen, friendly with 
outsiders. 

A third human people, started to migrate in 
the Sea of Dread area from the southeastern 
reagions of the Jungle Coast, the Pearl Islands, 
and Cestia from BC 3000 on. They were the 
Mawa, a branch of a much older people of 
Oltec or mixed Oltec-Tanagoro stock who had 

represent Mystara's Pacific islands' peoples). So, the 
migration of some Oltec-blooded refugees in this area serves 
to the purpose. The proper Makai would be born out of the 
cultural union between (a) these Oltec peoples, (b) a Neathar- 
descended people (the Eokai listed below) who dwelled in 
northern Davania before BC 3000, and who moved north 
through the Sea of Dread and toward the Known World after 
that event, and (c) an additional Oltec-blooded people (the 
Mawa also listed later) who migrated in the Sea of Dread 
area much later (after BC 2500). The Mawa have been 
introduced to establish a link between the 
Austronesian/Pacific-like cultures of Cestia and the Pearl 
Islands, and the Hawaiian-like culture of the Ierendi Islands. 
The whole development of the Makai origins has been 
extensively discussed with F. Defferrari and is indebted to 
many of his ideas. Basically, the Mawa's ancestors already 
inhabited the area around Cestia and Davania's Jungle Coast 
before the Great Rain of Fire; then, from BC 3000 to BC 
2500, they expanded in the islands of the southern Sea of 
Dread (including the Eastern Thanegioth Archipelago), and 
after that date northwards up to the coast of Brun. The 
peoples' names of the Oteino, Eokai, and Mawa are 
creations of F. Defferrari. 



lived in the myriad islands of Sea of Steam 
centuries before the Great Rain of Fire. Their 
language had strong similarities with the 
tongue of some Rakasta breeds (such as the 
Harimau-Belang Sherkastas, and the Cloud 
Pardastas), which could hint to an ancestral 
relation between those peoples in Skothar 4 . 
At BC 2500 the Mawa had already settled 
many islands of the southern Sea of Dread, 
and continued their expansion northward, 
establishing settlements on the southern 
coasts of Brun already in BC 2000. 

XlYfQ MiquatioNS of ttje 
'CayMoua aNb ttje Elves 

In BC 2500, a fourth human people came in 
southeastern Brun from the north, crossing 
modern Darokin. They were the Taymora, a 
Neathar-descended people who had 
originated in central Brun, and who now 
settled in the coastal lands of southeastern 
Brun 5 . The Taymora warred against and 
traded with the indigenous Eokai, Oteino, 
and lizardmen, managing to carve a land for 
themselves where they built an agricultural 
civilization of bronze-age city-states. In a short 
while, the Taymora became the most 
powerful culture of this area, absorbing or 
influencing the native ones. Nevertheless, 
little is known today about the Taymora, and 
what knowledge has been gathered about 
them comes from the ruins of their 
settlements, buried in the Ierendi and 
Minrothad islands, or hidden under the waves 
of the Sea of Dread. 

4 See also note 3. The Rakasta connection is included to 
explain similarities between the language of some 
Skotharian Rakasta breeds and the family of Austronesian- 
like languages of Mystara, to which the Makai tongue 
should belong. 

About the origins of the Taymora, see Threshold no. 1, 
The History of Karameikos, note 4, page 37. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Histony of leneNfci aNt) MiNnotftaO 




Elf travelers and colonists coming from the 
Serpent Peninsula began arriving in Taymoran 
lands around BC 2250 6 . They established 
friendly relations with the humans, who 
employed them as mercenary troops in 
exchange for territory. Centuries later (BC 
2100), a larger group of elves who had split 
from Ilsundal's migration toward the Sylvan 
Realm, came to the Taymoran lands; they were 
mostly divided among two clans: the Verdiers 
(wood and fair elves) and the Meditors (water 
elves) 7 . The Taymora allowed them to settle 
in the forests north and east of their city-states, 
in the areas now occupied by modern 
Karameikos and Minrothad: the water elves 
mostly settled in the southern area, near the 
sea coast, while the wood and fair elves moved 
to the forests in the north. 

Another race of elves came in the area shortly 
after the migration of the Verdier and Meditor 
clans: they were the aquatic elves, or 
Aquarendi as they called themselves 8 . These 
sea elves had grieved for many centuries after 
the Great Rain of Fire, because they thought 
that their land brethren had wholly perished 
in the cataclysm. They were overjoyed when 
they discovered that some clans of land elves 
had survived, and migrated to the sea region 
surrounding the southeastern coast of Brun 
to live side by side with them, but mostly kept 
their presence secret from other land dwellers. 

In the following decades, Taymora's power 
expanded, and some of their cities grew rich 
and powerful. They pushed their influence far 



About the elves' arrival date on Brun, see Threshold issue 
1, The History of Karameikos, note 5, page 39. 

For an understanding of my distinction of elven subraces, 
see Threshold issue 1, The History of Karameikos, note 6, 
page 39. 

The history of the Aquarendi was introduced and quite 
well detailed in PC3 The Sea People. 



beyond their borders, successfully waging 
war against the giants still lurking north of 
their realms, and against the resurgence of 
lizardman power in modern Ylaruam 9 . They 
traded with most other cultures of the Known 
World, and also with the humans belonging 
to the Eokai, Oteino, and Mawa cultures who 
lived in the islands of the sea to the south, in 
the myriad small isles and atolls scattered 
around what would become the Sea of Dread. 

XlYfQ rayMORaN Civil Wan 

However, evil and corruption were soon to 
take their toll on the flourishing Taymoran 
culture 10 . Before BC 2000 some cities of the 
Taymora began worshipping the powers of 
Entropy, and parts of the country slowly 
became dark places whose rulers were 
devoted to gruesome bloody and 
necromantic practices. Undead creatures, 
such as nosferatu and vampires, made their 
appearance at this time in Taymora, as well 
as the first recorded lycanthropic bloodlines, 
likely created by Taymoran experiments. The 
Taymora were also responsible for the 
breeding of a servant race of albino humans, 
whose descendants still survive to this day 11 . 



For the wars between the Taymora and the giants, see 
Threshold issue 1, The History of Karameikos, page 39 
and note 7, and also Lords of the Cruth Lowlands (by G. 
Agosta)]; about the struggle between the Taymora and the 
lizardmen of Mogreth, see the page on Moqreth at the 
Vaults of Pandius (by G. Gander and J. Calvin)]. 

10 About the Taymora's entropic worship, see Threshold 
issue 1, The History of Karameikos, note 8, page 39. 

11 The albino humans of Utter Island were introduced first 
in GAZ4; fan material explaining their origin as a 
Taymoran servitor race include Taymora, Land of the 
Dead (by G. Agosta)], Timeline of the Taymoran Age 2800- 
1700 BC (by G. Agosta)], Taymoran Timeline v2.2 (by G. 
Caroletti)], and Alternate Setting for Ierendi v2.0 (by S. 
Dornhoff)]. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"die Histony of ieneNOi aNt) MiNnotftat) 
m 





Taymoran Civil War 

At last (BC 2000), a great civil war between 
followers of rival entropic Immortals ravaged 
the country, while at the same time a long 
period of seismic instability hit the southern 
Known World, which was shocked by recurrent 
earthquakes over the course of the next three 
centuries 12 . Many people perished, and many 
cities were destroyed by the earthquakes and 
volcanic eruptions, or by the civil war itself. 
Gradually, many Taymora began to migrate 
northward hoping to find shelter in the 
forested country at the foothills of the 
mountains 13 . 

TIX)£ riMe of CataclysMS 

By BC 1750, a series of earthquakes had 
broken some parts of the Taymoran lands off 
the coast of the Known World and had plunged 
many regions beneath the sea. Indigenous 
lizardmen, Mawa, Eokai, and Oteino, most of 
whom had slowly retreated into the wilderness 
when the Taymoran civil war had begun, were 
quite untouched by the cataclysms. The 
Taymora, instead, were heavily hit by the war 

12 

About seismical events of the BC 2000-1700 period, see 
Threshold no. 1, The History of Karameikos, note 10, page 
39-40. 

13 

See PC3 («the few surviving Taymora fled the area and 
settled farther north in the present day lands of 
Karameikos»). 



and the earthquakes: many vestiges of their 
civilization had already been destroyed by BC 
1750, and the last remnants of the southern 
Taymoran cities and lands disappeared under 
the waves in the devastating volcanic 
explosion of BC 1720, when the dome of the 
Kikianu Caldera, a huge island the size of the 
modern Five Shires, collapsed over its 
subterrean magma chamber, and was thus 
plunged under the sea, leaving only three 
rugged islands to testify its existence (the 
modern Alcove, Aloysius, and Utter islands 
in the Ierendi archipelago), as well as a single 
volcanic cone at their center (Mount Kala on 
today's Honor Island) 14 . This terrible event 
was recorded by all Known World cultures 
of that time, when huge waves battered the 
coasts and the sky was darkened with ashes 
for months. The seismic instability which 
climaxed with the Kikianu Caldera event 
finally gave the southern coast of the Known 
World the appearance it has today, with the 
creation of the modern archipelagos of 
Ierendi and Minrothad. 

While the Eokai, Oteino, Mawa, and the 
lizardmen survived in some of the eastern 

14 In a couple of passages (pages 6 and 60), GAZ4 says 
that the Kikianu Caldera's surviving vestiges are the islands 
of Elegy, Fletcher, Roister (which would have been part of 
the Caldera's borders), and Honor Island (whose Mount 
Kala would be the Caldera's surviving volcanic cone). This 
is an obvious mistake, becouse joining the three islands 
surrounding Mount Kala we do not come out with the 
shape of a crater at all (also, Ierendi Island is found between 
the three islands which would make up the Caldera). 
Looking at GAZ4's poster map, it is quite clear that the 
surviving islands which actually formed the Kikianu Caldera 
were Utter, Alcove, and Aloysius - and maybe even White 
Island, but this is not needed, as GAZ4 mentions three 
islands besides Honor Island. Moreover, GAZ4 (page 60) 
says that the Kikianu Caldera event happened in the 
second century BC, but this is clearly another mistake if 
confronted from informations from the rest of the 
supplement. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotliaO 
m 




islands (the modern Ierendi archipelago), 
elves were also spared by the catastrophe, but 
they were now separated by the newly-created 
sea. The Meditor water elf clan was stranded 
alone on one of the recently-formed islands 
south of the new coastline (the one later called 
Alfeisle, in Minrothad), while their wood and 
fair elf brethren had survived on the new coast 
of the continent to the north. Fearing further 
seismic activity in their land and willing to 
reunite with the water elves, in BC 1720 the 
Verdier wood elf clan, also at the urging of the 
Aquarendi 15 - who had been hit hardly by the 
catastrophe in their underwater homeland - 
obeyed the omens sent by their Immortals and 
crossed the dangerous seawaters, migrating 
to Alfeisle as well. The rest of the Verdier fair 
elves, instead, preferred to continue living in 
their mainland forests, in relative tranquillity; 
they were the ancestors of the Vyalia clan of 
Karameikos and Thyatis. 

It was after this fearsome age of cataclysms had 
ravaged the southeastern corner of Brun that 
the elves of Alfeisle started to call the sea which 
extended around their newly-created island 
the "Sea of Dread" and the archipelago west 
and north-west of Alfeisle the "Isles of 
Dread" 16 . In fact, even if no seismic event of 

15 See PC3 The Sea People, where the Aquarendi's role in 
the Verdier wood elves' migration to Alfeisle is made clear. 

16 See Historical Synopsis of the Minrothad Isles, Dungeon 
Master's Booklet, GAZ9 The Minrothad Guilds. It seems that 
the name "Isle of Dread" in particular referred to Trader's 
Isle, perhaps due to the fact that at that time it might have 
housed the worst volcanic activity, maybe including some 
dramatic elf-killing event (like destruction of an important 
city, or tragic widespread mass destruction); obviously this 
"Isle of Dread" has nothing to do with the isle of the Eastern 
Thanegioth Archipelago which has the same name. 
Nevertheless, other theories abound about the origins of the 
names "Sea of Dread" and "Isle(s) of Dread"; one of those is 
linked with the tale of the Thyatians' migration from Davania 
to Brun, while another more sinister theory is exposed in 
Darkness Beneath, by F. Defferrari, in this number of 



the proportions of the Kikianu Caldera's 
explosion ever happened again, seismic 
activity in the form of volcanic eruptions and 
earthquakes of varying strength continue to 
fill the lives of the peoples who lived in the 
islands of this region with fear and anguish. 

As if the aftereffects of the volcanic and 
seismic activity in the southern Known World 
were not enough, another catastrophic event 
happened in the north: in BC 1700 a local 
elven clan of the region later known as the 
Highlands tinkered with a buried 
Blackmoorian device, causing its explosion 
with devastating effects - a whole mountain 
range was destroyed, creating the Broken 
Lands, and debris and dust lifted by the 
explosion darkened the skies for years, 
plunging the Known World into another brief 
ice age. 

It was also around this time, after the worst 
volcanic activity had ended, that another 
underwater race, that of the merrow, 
discovered the newly submerged lands of 
southeastern Brun 17 . Finding the region of 
their liking - bright, mostly shallow waters 
heated by the underwater volcanic activity 
and bountiful with sea plants and animals - 
they migrated here from the seas around the 
Thanegioth archipelago, and called this area 
the Sunlit Sea. The merrow didn't kept their 
existence secret from land dwellers as the 
Aquarendi had done; also, unlike them, they 
chose not to pursue a settled lifestyle, but led 
a semi-nomadic existence based on the 
movements of the great shoals of fishes, and 
on the resources they gathered from the kelp 
forests. 



Threshold. 

17 

Again, information about the merrow's date of arrival in 
the Sunlit Sea come from PC3. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotliaO 




HYfG BmtY) of tY)G Makai Cultuue 

In BC 1700, at the worst peak of the seismic 
activity, the modern Ierendi and Minrothad 
archipelagos had seen most of their 
settlements wiped out by the catastrophes and 
their aftereffects. Only a scattering of 
Taymoran survivors inhabited the eastern 
islands, among which Alfeisle alone saw a 
relevant water and wood elven population; in 
the western islands, besides a very few 
surviving Taymora, there still dwelt the sparse 
remnants of the more ancient cultures of the 
Eokai, Oteino, Mawa, and the lizardmen, and 
a very small population of human albinos - 
the surviving descendants of the Taymoran 
servant race - lived on Utter island. 

The more numerous Mawa, however, in the 
turn of a century, became the prevailing 
culture of the western islands, gradually 
absorbing the few surviving Taymora, the 
fair-skinned Eokai, and the copper-skinned 
Oteino. This was also due to the steady 
immigration of Mawa peoples from the 
overpopulated islands of the Sea of Dread in 
the newly formed and available islands of the 
modern Ierendi and Minrothad regions 18 . 
Intermarriage between the Mawa on one side 
and the Eokai and the Oteino on the other, 
and cultural predominance of the Mawa over 
the other two peoples, gave birth to the Makai 
people around BC 1600, a mixed-heritage 
people who preserved most traits of the Mawa 
culture but whose customs were heavily 
influenced by the Eokai and Oteino. The Makai 
endure to this day and represent the main 
culture of the Ierendi islands 19 . In the 



18 

It may well be that the Mawa's migration was a 
consequence of the rise of the merrow realm of Twaelar in 
the Eastern Thanegioth Archipelago around BC 1700. 

19 

See notes 3 and 4, above, for the reasoning behind this 
development. 



following centuries, the Makai built villages 
and lived a primitive lifestyle based on 
agriculture, hunting, fishing, and gathering. 
From time to time they clashed against the 
lizardmen tribes, while they preferred to leave 
the albino humans alone on their island. 

The Makai continued to live peacefully and 
flourish on their islands for the next 
centuries, troubled only from time to time by 
clashes against the lizardmen and - starting 
from BC 1300 - by the raids of Traldar galleys 
which swiftly hit the islands' coasts to plunder 
booty and capture slaves. With time, the 
Traldars even established a handful of 
colonies and pirate dens on the modern 
Ierendi and Minrothad archipelagos, fighting 
against the Makai who dwelt on the coasts, 
but also helping to bring them even more in 
contact with the outside world. As today, 
Traldar remains - even if overlapped by later 
cultures' ruins - have been found on Trader's 
and Open Isle in Minrothad, and on Safari 
and Fletcher islands in Ierendi 20 . 

Yet in BC 1300 the Sea of Dread was crossed 
by another migrating people, the halflings. 
This race had left the Brasol region in Davania 
some centuries before, moving through the 
Adakkian Sound region and crossing the 
Izondian Deep to reach Thanegia Island, and 
the southern end of the Serpent Peninsula. 
They had settled there in BC 1500, but 
unfavorable environment and climate, along 
with unrest among natives, persuaded them 
to move on to search for another land. Their 

20 

According to Hollow World Campaign Setting, the 
Traldar were quite adept seafarers and sea raiders: «Their 
war-galleys [...] once dominated the region of the Sea of 
Dread»; their expansion in the southern archipelagos, while 
not strictly canonic, is meant to underline this trait of them. 
For a picture of the Traldar age in the mainland, see also 
Threshold issue. 1, The History of Karameikos, pages 40- 
44. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e Histony of ieneNOi aNO MiNitotliat) 




flotilla passed through the western islands of 
the archipelago, stopping briefly in Elegy 
Island; then they landed on the mainland at 
Cape Faerdinel in BC 1300. A couple of 
halfling clans decided to settle on Elegy Island 
and northern Ierendi Island alongside the local 
Makai tribes, and those islands saw the growth 
of a relevant halfling population in the 
following centuries. 21 

In the meantime, the water and wood elves 
on Alfeisle kept to themselves on their island, 
practicing a variety of crafts based on the 
island's local products, shielding themselves 
from outside eyes thanks to the water elves' 
weather magic. Around the island, the 
Aquarendi continued to live under the waves, 
as friendly as ever toward their land cousins. 
In fact, the very existence of Alfeisle and of the 
Aquarendi was unknown to the islands' and 
mainland's humans of this age. 




Makai Canoes in the Ierendi Islands 



21 

The tale of the half lings' migration was never told, and 
their movement from Davania to the Known World are only 
arguable from the Hollow World Campaign Setting (in 
Dungeon Master's Sourcebook, Timeline of History, and in 
the poster map "Local Migration History") and Champions 
of Mystara. The halflings' date of arrival in the modern Five 
Shires comes from GAZ8. The halfling settlement in Elegy 
Island has been inserted by the author, and is linked with the 
origins of Leeha, in Norwold. 



THE NirHIAN ACJE 

Soon, however, even the Traldar would have 
succumbed to a much more powerful outside 
force. Toward the end of the second 
millennium BC, the Nithian Empire turned 
its greedy eyes toward the southern Known 
World, the area where the Ptahr-al-Dar 
expedition had headed to some centuries 
before 22 . 

MiNRottj's ExpeDitioN 

Nithians were attracted to the eastern islands 
by their natural resources; in BC 1100, under 
the leadership of the hero-adventurer 
Minroth, the Nithians quickly took possession 
of most of the islands of the modern 
Minrothad archipelago, easily overcoming 
what little resistance the indigenous 
(Taymora-descended) population and the 
Traldar colonies tried to put up. They 
founded the city of Horonak 23 (on the site of 
the modern Harbortown) on the largest of 
these islands, and named the whole 
archipelago Colony Islands in their tongue. 

Minroth was a prophet as well as a warrior 
and wise leader; he taught his followers a 
philosophy of hope, self-reliance, and hard 
work needed to climb to happiness and 
greatness. Actually, "Minroth" was the last 
reincarnation of a Nithian hero who was on 
the way of completing his Path of the 
Polymath under the patronage of Immortal 
Maat; after having led the Nithians here and 
having seen them prosper, he left them 
suddenly in order to bring his quest for 

22 

About the name "Ptahr-al-Dar", see Threshold no. 1, 
The History of Karameikos, note 12, page 40. 

23 

The name "Horonak" for the ancestor city of 
Harbortown was created by J. Mishler in History of the Isle 
of Dawn 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Histony of ieneNOi aNO MiNnotftat) 




Immortality to a successful end 24 . The people 
of the Colony Islands began to worship him 
as an Immortal prophet who one day will 
return to bring eternal happiness to his 
followers; the cult quickly spread and became 
known as Minrothism. 

Following Minroth's departure - about fifty 
years or so after the founding of Horonak - 
the Colony Islands saw a steady immigration 
of Nithians from the continental area of their 
empire: settlements were built, trade with the 
motherland increased, and the islanders' trade 
network within the empire grew - as did the 
shares they derived from it. Their prosperity 
was further helped by the destruction of rival 
coastal Traldar cities after BC 1000, due to the 
Great Beastmen Invasion. 



24 

This expanded background for Minroth was created in 
Codex Immortalis. Book I: Guide to the Immortals (by M. 
Dalmonte)]. 



XIYig CoNQuest of ttje Makai 
Isles 

Around BC 1000, the Nithians began to look 
at the archipelago which lay west of the 
Colony Islands as the next target of their 
expansionism. The peaceful local population, 
the Makai, represented an attractive source 
of slaves, and some of the islands were also 
rich in deposits of precious metals. Nithian 
armies easily subdued the coastal 
communities of the Makai, and absorbed the 
handful of Traldar settlements which existed 
in the region, claiming dominion over this 
archipelago also 25 . The halfling clans of Elegy 

25 

According to Hollow World Campaign Setting, 
Dungeon Master's Sourcebook, "Timeline of History", the 
eve of the Nithian conquest is the time when the Immortals 
decided to transplant some Makai tribes in the Hollow 
World to prevent the assimilation of their unique culture by 
the Nithians. This means that throughout the Campaign 
Setting the inclusion of the Makai among the thousands 
"Tribes of Neathar" is erroneous - the Neathar tribes have 
been transplanted in the Hollow World by the Immortals 




Nithian Conquest of the Makai Isles 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotliaO 




T^e IcrgnDi aNt> ColoNy islaNos oimiNQ tlie NithJaN Age 

From tfjc QoIocn Age of tne ^naioans to tne CHyatlaN MiGnatioN IBC ik»o-6O0> 




N1CHIAN EMPiltE 



ELVES 



CRALDARS 



rcnnnonics tmbctt the eoNttml of 
tUe Nil h law Ewplne bl BC 1000 

IslaNos settleo by Mitmolli's 
expeottloN In DC 1100 

vassal aNO tntnutany peoples 
of tfjc NltlTiaN EMptne In BC 1000 

NliijlaN claim oven tnc 
Coloxy lslaN&siN BC 1000 

Ntnlan clatw own We 
len i Nt>i isiams In nc iixio 

known ettncMewifi f ouN&ett 
By lite NltniaNs 



B 



Walen aND wood civcn 

"Che "Deep LaWb" 
fCniKbyi claw! In rc iockj 

Vyaiia lawds 

formcb laisibfiof irje 
VcKorcn claH bef one BC 1720 

Ven Die n claws MigrtalioN 
to Affeiete <BC \~20) 



HINHOME 



IEKENDI ISLANDS 



Arteae of uitert lslaND 
iwhabiicb by the Albino people 

An e as of 117c tencNbi ifiiaNfts 
mhabilcb by 1hc Makai in BC 1000 

Aiu.i-, witrj a stiiONqcn 
pncfiCNCf of lizanbMen m BC 1 000 



B 
B 



Lanb& seltleb by tlje Urns 
betweeN BC noo ant» BC 1000 

Hln MicmatkrN fnoM 
tftaNeqta Islawfc tBC two) 

Maximum extent of Lofc taT's 
Kingdom of 1J>e Cjlittemnq Lan& 

AppnoxiMatc bonftens of orteifiJ} 
DOMftiNfi i BC 999-464 aND sot .747) 



B 

OtHER 



'tnaioatt nealMS UNoen 
HutaakaN toNlnot ts BC noo 

lNfripenoeNt ^raataan 
nealus in BC 1100 

?Cennitoities UNoen otneel 
HutaakaN nute iN BC noo 

KNOWN SettleMeNtS fOUNdep Dp lit 

t ita loans out£ibc Iheirt Dove la no 

Cenn Hotly of ttje ri1y-6tatc 
of tuwa In BC noo 

Route of the 'Cnaloart MlqnalloN ftioM 
MlnleNos UNoen King MileN(BC 1000I 



Route of tl)e 'CDyallaN peoples' 
«k;nallON fnoM DavaNia ibc sool 

DoMaiN of the Red Ones overt 
lf)e AltiuaqhlN Clans IBC 1247-800) 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e Histony of leneNfci aNt) MiNnotftaO 




and northern Ierendi islands shared the fate 
of the Makai natives, and were easily subdued 
and enslaved by the Nithian conquerors; their 
kin in Llora (modern Five Shires), under the 
dominion of the ores, did not represent a safe 
haven for them, so they had no other choice 
but submitting to the Nithians. 

Around the same time in which the Nithians 
were conquering the Makai isles and the local 
Traldar and halfling populations, the mainland 
Traldar kingdoms (in modern Karameikos) 
were being ravaged by a huge gnoll invasion. 26 
A whole city of the southern Traldar kingdoms, 
under order of local King Milen, was evacuated 
and set sail to flee from the its doomed 
homeland; their fleet entered the waters 
around the southern archipelagos and split, 
landing half in Safari Island and half in Utter 
Island, hoping to find shelter among the local 
Makai who were in the process of being 
subdued by the Nithian Empire 27 . But they had 
no will to become subjects of the Nithians, 
who had conquered their kinsmen in the 
Colony Islands and were ruling them harshly. 
The Nithians, on the other hand, were not 
willing to allow the Traldar refugees to hamper 
their conquest of the Makai islands, mostly out 
of fear of an alliance between the Traldar and 



around BC 3500, when the Neathar people had still not 
differentiated into many separated cultures. The Makai 
civilization developed much later, and moreover not from 
exclusively Neathar ancestors. 

26 About the gnoll invasion of the Traldar kingdoms, see 
also Threshold no. 1, The History of Karameikos, pages 44 
and 48. 

27 

The following story of the struggle between Traldar 
refugees and the Nithians is not featured in any of the 
canonic sources, but was inserted under suggestion of F. 
Defferrari to make the history of the Traldar migration 
toward Davania a little more credible; in fact, as they were 
fleeing from their homeland, they would have likely stopped 
as soon as possible - that is in the Nithian-ruled southern 
islands - trying to win a place to settle there. 



the native Makai, which would have 
threatened their newly-won conquest. So the 
Nithians at first confronted the refugees, 
making clear they could live in the islands 
only if they accepted being split among the 
various islands and settling according to what 
the empire felt was better; then, after the 
Traldar' s opposition and some quarrels, the 
Nithians turned to force and attacked the 
Traldar that had landed on Safari Island, 
capturing many of them, and readying to 
launch another assault on those who landed 
on Utter Island. Understanding that they 
could not win this fight, and having to chose 
between enslavement and flight, the Traldar 
refugees chose the latter and sailed past the 
archipelagos south of their homeland, where 
the Nithians didn't follow them; afterwards 
they would have reached the northern coasts 
of Davania, becoming the ancestors of the 
Milenians. 

Exploitation of the islands' population and 
resources was harsher here than in the 
Colony Islands; the Nithians pushed inland 
to get control of the metal deposits, thus 
coming into conflict against the primitive 
lizardmen tribes who inhabited the interior. 
At first these clashes were sporadic and 
limited to some areas; however, the Nithian 
penetration stirred up fiercer lizardman 
resistance, which threatened the very stability 
of Nithian rule on the islands and risked 
sucking more money from the empire than 
the conquest was worth. Thus, the Nithians 
contented themselves with the control of the 
coastal areas and surroundings, and with the 
exploitation of Makai labor 28 . 

28 

Given the five centuries of Nithian rule over the Ierendi 
Islands, the contemporary destruction of the Nithian and 
lizardman cultures on them (in BC 500), and the quite 
sudden (that is, not centuries-long) demographic loss 
suffered by the lizardmen due to the plague imported by the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Histony of ieneNfci aNO MiNitofliaC) 




HYfG IslaNDs Durinq ttje DecliNe 
of ttje EMpiue 

When the Nithian Empire slowly began to slide 
into decline around BC 800, with most 
resources devoted to military campaigns, 
luxuries, and construction programs than to 
trade and infrastructures, the flourishing 
Colony Islands settlements seized an even 
greater control over trade routes which linked 
the motherland to the southern archipelagos, 
soon becoming the main trading power of the 
northern Sea of Dread. 

Things changed after BC 700, when the 
leadership of the Nithian Empire turned to the 
worship of Entropy. The whole eastern part 
of the empire - the one which included 
Thothia and other Isle of Dawn colonies - 
broke away from the empire, starting a civil 
war that would have gone on until the 
empire's very end two centuries later; also, 
civil unrest began to plague the continental 
areas of the empire, and an increasing amount 
of money and resources was needed to enlist 
mercenary armies. 

The pharaohs at the beginning of this age thus 
attempted once more to put their hands over 
the western islands' mineral resources; in 
order to put the lizardmen resistance down, 
starting from BC 650 they brought to the 
islands cheap slave armies made up of scores 
of goblins captured elsewhere 29 . A brutal and 

Nithians in their islands, were the reasons behind the choice 
to have the Nithian-lizardmen contacts limited to a few 
squabbles; only later did the two peoples clash more 
regularly, and the plague spread among the lizardmen. 

29 

Despite a passage on GAZ4, page 60 («In the seventh 
century AC the island [Honor Island] was settled by a colony 
of humans and goblins»), another passage - which I favored 
over the first one - on page 7 says that «Some of the lava 
tunnel complexes are inhabited by descendants of goblin 
slaves brought to the islands by Nithian colonists in the fifth 
century BC». I chose to put back in time by a century and a 



bloody war of skirmishes and ambushes 
began; at first the lizardmen held off against 
these renewed Nithian attempt to wrest 
control of their lands from them, but soon 
they had to face an enemy more terrible than 
the Nithians, and one they could not 
withstand. Unbeknownst to the Nithians, 
some domesticated animal species they had 
recently introduced to the islands (or perhaps 
even the goblins themselves) carried a tiny 
skin parasite; this nearly invisible vermin was 
harmless to humans, but transmitted a 
devastatingly lethal disease to lizardmen. The 
reptilian population of the islands was thus 
quickly weakened by the disease and 
decimated in the turn of a century and a half 
or so, allowing the Nithian goblins to dispose 
easily of the survivors. 

In those same centuries, the Nithians began 
to take halfling slaves from Elegy and Ierendi 
islands to bring them into other provinces of 
their empire. The halflings represented an 
ideal labor force for working in the deep 
mines of the Hardanger Mountains, so many 
were transplanted there; that area, in fact, 
had suffered from a shortage of local 
Northman slaves, many of which had been 
transferred by the Nithians in a recently- 
established colony on the northern coast of 
Davania. This process completely erased the 
halfling population from these two islands, 
and nothing was left of the Hins there. If this 
was not enough, the Nithians also started to 
barter halfling slaves for weapon and tools 
with the ores which ruled Shaerdon (modern 
Five Shires) in the 8th and 7th centuries BC. 30 

half the introduction of goblin slaves by the Nithians to the 
isles, because by the fifth century BC the Nithians were no 
more; the only "Nithians" who could then be used were 
those of Harbortown on Trader's Isle - but I could not 
devise a reasonable explanation to have them bringing 
goblin slaves into Ierendi, so I changed GAZ4's date. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Histony of ieneNfci aNO MiNnofliat) 




At the other end of the chain, in the Colony 
Islands, the spread of Minrothism and the 
locals' pivotal role in the empire's trading 
network spared the islands from the 
introduction of the Entropy-worshipping cults 
which were imposed in most other regions of 
the Nithian Empire. In fact, as civil unrest and 
decline in the Nithian Empire increased, 
Nithian control over outlying areas like the 
southern archipelagos waned; this allowed the 
Colony Islands to assume greater freedom 
from the motherland, trading both with the 
pharaoh and his enemies at the same time, 
also seeing as an unexpected boon the 
northward migration of the Thyatians, 
Kerendans, and Hattians - who reached 
southeastern Brun from Davania in BC 600 - 
which further weakened Nithian control over 
the area and diminished even more the 
possibility of a resurgence of Nithian power. 

TIYjg End of ttje NitliiaN DoiviaiN 

In the western islands, the Nithian garrisons 
left without support from the mainland had 

30 

Presence of halflings in the Northern Reaches region was 
established by the Poor Wizard's Almanac books, 
Geographic Overview, under "Leeha" and "Norwold" 
entries: «Half lings first settled this area 1,500 years ago 
when kobold invasions drove them out of the Northern 
Reaches". How and why the halflings were found in the 
Northern Reaches has never been explained. The story told 
there follows Usamigaras' background found in Codex 
Immortalis, Book One: Guide to the Immortals (by M. 
Dalmonte)]. Basically, the halflings continued to live in the 
Hardanger Mountains' foothills as allies of the local gnome 
clans after the destruction of the Nithian Empire freed them 
from slavery. But life in that region became harder and 
harder after BC 450, as they were cornered between the 
giants' and gnolls' lands, and their gnome allies started to 
succumb in front of the kobolds' onslaught. After another 
century or so, the surviving halflings followed the leadership 
of a prophet of the High Heroes (actually Usamigaras in 
disguise during his path to Immortality) and left the area, 
migrating north. They would found Leeha, in Norwold, 
some years later. 



an increasingly hard time in keeping the 
goblin and Makai slaves under control. 
Nevertheless, the lizardmen's doom was by 
then sealed because of the disease the 
Nithians had brought to the islands. In BC 
500, as a last act of vengeance against the 
ones who had exterminated their own 
people, the lizardmen shamans performed 
unearthly magical rituals, invoking the power 
of their ancestors and deities, and unleashed 
a final spell of horrible power over the 
Nithians: Makai legends tell that the 
settlements of their masters were completely 
wiped away in a single night by the power of 
the lizardmen's spell. By BC 500, both the 
Nithians' and the lizardmen's presence were 
thus almost erased from the islands; the 
lizardmen only survived as small primitive 
clans on Roister Island and in some shallow 
water areas, far away from the humans. 

BC 500 also saw the end of the Nithian 
Empire as a whole; the Nithian civilization 
was erased from the surface world by the 
Immortals it had angered. The lizardmen's 
vengeance over them in the western islands 
was perhaps part of the Immortals' plan to 
cancel the Nithian civilization from the Outer 
World. The Nithians of the Colony Islands, 
however, were spared by the Immortals 
because they had never succumbed to the 
worship of Entropy. The memory of their 
Nithian past erased from their minds by the 
Immortals, they began to call themselves 
"Minrothians" and forgot ever being a colony 
of the Nithian Empire; they only recalled that 
the Nithian Empire had been a trading 
partner of theirs in the north, which now was 
no more. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Histony of ieneNOi aNO MiNnotftaC) 




THE ISLANDS' MIDDLE 
CENTURIES 

The disappearance of the Nithian Empire had 
quite different consequences on the two halves 
of the island chain which included the modern 
Ierendi and Minrothad archipelagos, which 
developed along widely diverging lines in the 
five centuries before the crowning of the first 
Thyatian Emperor. 

'Clie CJobliN Wans in t^e Makai 
Isles 

In the western islands, after the destruction 
of Nithian presence, the Makai were free and 
went back to their everyday life, mostly 
forgetting having been dominated by the 
Nithians. However, the Nithians had left in the 
islands a legacy that had not disappeared with 
them: the goblin slaves. Deprived of their 
Nithian masters and of their lizardmen 
enemies as well, scattered among various 
islands, the goblins ran amock and began a 
long series of intermittent tribal wars against 
the Makai, which were the cause of the 
demographic stagnation of the islands in the 
following centuries (BC 500-AC 0). At the end 
of this age, the goblins had been almost wholly 
exterminated - only a few tribes survived in 
some of the uninhabited islands (like Honor 
Island), and in secluded mountainous and 
barren areas of other islands 31 . 

Long decades of war favored the unification 
of a number of Makai tribes under powerful 
or prestigious war chiefs, who began exerting 

31 

Their presence in such terrain and lands is described in 
GAZ4; the Goblin Wars were devised by the author in order 
to explain the gobins' spread among various islands, and to 
add some color the otherwise uneventful centuries between 
the end of the Nithian Empire and the colonization of the 

archipelago by the Five Shires and Thyatis (6 th century AC). 



a certain degree of control over some areas 
of the islands which fell under their authority. 
Short-lived Makai kingdoms were born in the 
latter half of this age; their rulers also started 
to fight among themselves for the dominance 
over the islands as the goblin threat gradually 
waned. Thus were born the first kingdoms 
encompassing a whole island or a number of 
them, the most famous and powerful of which 
was established in BC 178 by King Kapena 
Kekoa, who managed to achieve control over 
the whole eastern three-quarters of Ierendi 
Island; his successor were able to extend their 
control over Fletcher Island and parts of 
Safari Island, conquering lesser chiefdoms 
and settling the wilderness there. Another 
lesser Makai kingdom of this age was that of 
Kauhona, who controlled the western side of 
Ierendi Island and Elegy Island 32 . 

During those centuries the western islands 
and their Makai inhabitants were largely 
ignored by other cultures of the Known 
World. The Hin were slowly rebuilding 
themselves after the centuries of orcish 
tyranny, while the Traladarans were in the 
middle of their Dark Age; moreover, the birth 
of local Makai kingdoms made possible 
attempts at conquest much more difficult and 
costly, and ended up descouraging them 
altogether. Occasionally, Hin sailors, 
Minrothian or Traladaran traders, or Thyatian 
pirates visited the islands, but their presence 
was temporary at best. There were indeed a 
few exhiles or refugees, fleeing their 
homeland for a variety of causes, who were 
allowed to settled among the Makai, but their 
number was negligible. 

32 

The birth of the mentioned Makai kingdoms is not 
canonic, and has been created by the author under 
suggestion of F. Defferrari to fill in with interesting and 
realistic historical developments those centuries of Makai 
history. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CI7G Histony of ieneNOi aNO MiNKOtftaC) 




Toward the end of those centuries, the name 
"Ierendi" - which was the Makai word that 
indicated the largest island of the archipelago 
- became widespread as the name of the whole 
island chain, which became known as the 
"Ierendi Islands". 

TIYjg Colony IslaNDs betwGGN 
HYfyadis aNb Alptjatia 

In the eastern islands, things went along 
differently. The trade power of the Minrothians 
began to decline due to the disappearance of 
their major trading partner, the Nithian 
Empire. They continued indeed to trade rare 
woods and handcrafts with other peoples of 
the southern Known World, but their profits 
never reached again the peaks of the late times 
of the Nithian age. 

The Thyatian Piracy and the Alphatian 
Conquest 

More importantly, the rise of the Thyatians in 
the east turned to represent a serious halt to 
the Minrothians' sea trade. At first devoted to 
expand and colonize the continental lands 
where they had landed around BC 600, the 
three Thyatian tribes became more aggressive 
after BC 500, when they were fully in control 
of their lands. Their rulers began to sponsor 
piracy, which after BC 400 became so 
widespread in this area of the Sea of Dread 
that all the peoples who lived off its coasts - 
from the Atruaghin to the inhabitants of the 
western Isle of Dawn - began to fear the 
ruthlessness of Thyatian corsairs. Many coastal 
peoples paid the Thyatians a tribute to avoid 
being targeted by their pirates, and the 
Minrothians were one of them. Thus, outward 
expansion of Minrothian trade and settlement 
was halted. 



But neither could the Thyatian pirates go 
unmatched. When their raids began to put 
the Alphatian trade routes in the east in 
serious danger, and when the latter 
discovered that the Thyatian mountains were 
rich in unexploited gold and silver, the 
Alphatian Empire made its first moves to 
conquer the Thyatian peoples. The Thyatians 
opposed a fierce resistance against the 
Alphatian armies, but eventually were 
conquered between BC 192 and BC 190. 
Alphatian conquest of the Thyatians was seen 
as a boon by other peoples of the Sea of 
Dread - they feared the distant power of the 
mighty Alphatian Empire, but were more than 
happy that its expansion had brought an end 
to the ever present threat of Thyatian piracy. 

The Rise of the Minrothians' Trade 
Power 

Thus the Minrothians managed to establish 
peaceful relations with the Alphatians and 
signed a series of agreements with them in 
order to keep the seas free from piracy 
through joint operations. The most important 
of them was the agreement of BC 180, 
through which the Alphatians entrusted the 
Minrothians with the duty to keep the sea 
routes from the Western Sea of Dawn to the 
Sea of Dread free from pirates, while giving 
them possession of the island of Terentias 
and allowing them to extend their trading 
network to the Alphatian-dominated Isle of 
Dawn 33 . 

Thanks to these developments, the 
Minrothians again expanded their trading 
network, which for the first time began to 
regularly touch the settlements of the western 
coast of the Isle of Dawn, with rarer forays 



33 

This part modifies and expands on original ideas found 
in History of the Thyatian People (by J. Ruhland)]. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNt) MiNnotftat) 




into the Alatian islands and Ochalea. The old 
capital city of the Colony Islands, Horonak - 
now called Harbortown by the Minrothians - 
again became a wealthy center of trade in this 
corner of Brun. 

This renewed prosperity was behind the 
Minrothians' new drive for expansion; 
settlements were built on the lesser islands of 
the chain, that is Open and North islands, as 
well as on the newly-acquired Terentias. 
Blackrock, Fortress, and Fire islands were 
instead too impervious and barren to be of 
any interest for the Minrothians. The last two 
centuries before AC were indeed a time of 
demographic growth for them. 

Alfeisle's Isolation and the Establishment 
of Undersea 

Meanwhile, in Alfeisle the elves were keeping 
to themselves, shrouded by their magic, and 
distantly watching the development of the 
world around their island. Among the water 
elves the first opinions against continued 
isolationism were heard around the same time 
the Alphatians conquered the Thyatians; some 
water elves envied the success of Minrothian 
traders, and wished to freely explore the 
outside world. They were still a minority 
among the water elf population, however, so 
isolationism prevailed. Elven society was also 
upset by the rift which arose between the 
Meditor and the Verdier clans about the 
exploitation of Alfeisle's forests for wood and 
timber; as a result of the harsh quarrel among 
the two elven clans, the Verdiers retreated to 
the woods and decided to lead a life of sylvan 
isolation, while the Meditors kept living on 
the coasts, near their beloved sea. It was after 
this event that the terms "water elves" and 
"wood elves" came into use by the elves 



themselves to indicate the two branches of 
their Alfeisle kin 34 . 

This age also saw the migration of the tritons 
into the Sunlit Sea, which took place around 
BC 200. The organized and conquest-minded 
tritons wished to carve a dominion for 
themselves in the bountiful waters 
surrounding the Ierendi and Minrothad 
archipelagos; they came into conflict against 
the nomadic merrow who inhabited these 
waters, and thus a centuries-long squabble 
began 35 . At the end the tritons managed to 
gain the upper hand and established the 
Kingdom of Undersea in the sea region 
between Utter and Blackrock islands. Many 
merrow living in this area were subdued by 
the tritons, and became subjects of Undersea; 
many others istead continued to live their 
nomadic lives on the fringes of the triton 
kingdom. 

The Minrothians during the Struggle for 
Freedom 

However, the decline of the Alphatian Empire 
took its toll also on the Alphatia-Minrothians 
relations. As unrest began to undermine the 
very stability of the empire's provinces in the 
west and imperial governors drained the 
territories they ruled of any riches to please 
the imperial throne, the Minrothians started 
to worry about imperial policy - the Alphatian 
throne was exploiting and taxing without 
regard and beyond any tolerability in its 
subject lands, with the consequence of 
making trade suffer and the Minrothians' 
profits decline. The Minrothians were looking 
to the future with serious concern. 

34 

This rift among the elves is mentioned in GAZ9 
(History of the Minrothad Guilds, Dungeon Master's 
Booklet). 

35 

Mention of the tritons' migration and squabbles against 
the merrows are found in PC3. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotliaO 




When Lucinius Trezantembium and 
Zendrolion Tatriokanitas led the Thyatians 
into revolt against the Alphatian dominion, 
the whole Alphatian control over the western 
part of the empire crumbled - other subject 
territories rose in revolt against the hated 
Alphatian masters, and joined the Thyatians 
in their Struggle for Freedom (BC 2). Totally 
unprepared to face such an opposition and 
taken by surprise by their adversaries' cunning 
tactics, the Alphatians were put on the 
defensive and soon had to fight harshly to 
preserve their control over the Isle of Dawn. 
Seeing all this, the Minrothians decided to stay 
neutral in the war - their agreements would 
have put them on the Alphatians' side, but the 
empire was too far away to send them any 
help, while the Thyatians were near and were 
achieving many successes; moreover, the 
Minrothians deemed that the fight to preserve 
the integrity of the Alphatian Empire was not 
theirs, so they preferred to keep out of it. 

As the war dragged on and the possibility of 
an Alphatian victory waned, seeing which way 
the wind was blowing the Minrothians threw 
their lot on the side of King Lucinius and in 
the very last months of the war helped the 
Thyatians to transport their troops across the 
Western Sea of Dawn from one battlefield to 
another, and supplied their lines thanks to 
their control of the seas. 

Under the Shadow of the Thyatian 
Empire 

In AC 0, Thyatis was finally victorious, but 
when the federation planned by King Lucinius 
was transformed into the militaristic and 
expansion-minded Thyatian Empire of 
Zendrolion I Tatriokanitas, the Minrothians' 
concerns deepened. In the aftermath of the 
war, they unwillingly had to keep their alliance 
with Thyatis for fear of reprisals, and saw their 



trade network shrink; in fact, Zendrolion' s 
empire recovered from the war much more 
rapidly than Alphatia, building a powerful 
military and naval machine a few miles away 
from the Minrothians' isles. 

Relationships between the Minrothians and 
Thyatis became more tense with the passing 
of the decades. In AC 120, the inhabitants of 
Terentias, mostly of Thyatian descent, 
revolted against Minrothian rule due to 
taxation and control imposed over the isles 
by the centralist political faction in 
Harbortown. The Terentians proclaimed 
independence from the Minrothians and 
fought off a couple of attempts by the latter 
to reestablish their dominion over the island; 
then, they appealed to the Thyatian Empire 
for support. After various events, the island 
formally accepted annexation by the Thyatian 
Empire in AC 127 36 . Relations between 
Thyatis and the Minrothians after this event 
became strained as the empire tried to extend 
its direct influence over the archipelago. 

HY)Q BeqiNNiNQS of ttje ColONy 
IslaNDs' CoNfeDeuatioN 

Despite the power and vicinity of the Thyatian 
Empire, a series of events - most of all the 
opening of Alfeisle's elves to outside contact 
- helped the peoples of the Colony Islands 
to emancipate themselves from Thyatian 
influence. This spurred the formation of the 
first trading alliance, but these developments 
were not achieved without internal conflicts. 



The foundation of New Alphatia 

36 I imagined this process to be somewhat akin to the 
independence of Texas from Mexico; the idea of a Thyatian 
conquest of Terentias around AC 120 comes from History 
of the Thyatian People (by J. Ruhland)]. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e Histony of leneNfci aNO MiNnotftat) 




In AC 250, a large group of Alphatian exhiles 
led by a team of powerful wizards came asking 
the Thyatian Emperor for protection against 
persecution in their homeland and for a place 
to settle 37 . The Thyatian Emperor, not trusting 
the exiles enough to allow them to settle in 
the empire's territory, granted them lands 
indeed - but on Tralder's Isle, that is in 
Minrothian territory: the isle would be theirs, 
if they could take it from the current occupants. 

The Alphatians, helped by their magics, made 
a sudden inroad into the territory of Trader's 
Isle, managing to build the outpost of New 
Alphatia on the island's northeastern coast. 
Shrouded by their spells and separated from 
the Minrothians by the central mountains of 
the isle and by dense fogs, the Alphatians 
settled there and went almost unnoticed for 
nearly a year. Then, the Minrothians 
discovered the newcomers and started a war 
against them to cast them away from their 
homeland. The war (AC 250-251) went on with 
a series of inconclusive clashes which resulted 
in some losses for either side, without any one 
of them prevailing. 

Saner heads of both parties then decided to 
meet, seeing better perspective in cooperation 
rather than in war. The Alphatians agreed to 

37 

GAZ9 is quite reticent about who those Alphatians were, 
and why they were migrating from their homeland; 
nevertheless, their ties with the Alphatian Empire are never 
mentioned, so it's likely that they were part of some minority 
group which was subject of persecution or discrimination at 
home (maybe they came from a territory other than the 
Alphatia proper) - otherwise they would have a difficult time 
to settle lands on Thyatis' back. Perhaps, given their aptitude 
for water- and sea-magic, they were members of an ancient 
sect of Followers of Water. In the article, I have tried to put 
together some of these element to clarify the history of their 
migration in Trader's Isle. For additional ideas about a 
possible background of those people, see also Old Alphatia 
History (by F. Defferrari)] and The Lost Art of Hydromancv 
(by G. Gander)]. 



share their knowledge of magic with the 
Minrothians, while the latter agreed to allow 
the Alphatians to settle on their island and to 
include them in their trading network. Thus 
a Minrothian-Alphatian alliance was born, and 
joint trade operations were agreed upon. The 
Thyatian Empire was disappointed with this 
development, even if the introduction in the 
Colony Islands of the destabilizing element 
represented by the Alphatians was 
nevertheless a success in their effort to 
weaken the Minrothians. 

The End of Elven Isolationism 

Meanwhile, something unexpected happened 
on Alfeisle 38 . In AC 273 a series of volcanic 
eruptions on the elves' hidden isle caused 
panic to spread among the inhabitants, who 
preserved the memory of their parents' 
accounts of the terrible destructions of two 
thousand years ago. Damages due to those 
eruptions were limited, but fear ran high. The 
progressive faction among the water elves 
took the opportunity to advocate for the 
opening of relations with the outside world 
and for the end of the elves' isolationism in 
order to find other places to settle. After 
much debate, the progressive faction 
prevailed in AC 275. The end of isolationism 
came to be seen favorably by the wood elves 
also, who were suffering since some years 
from a famine caused by their isolation and 
by their inability to import enough food to 
support their populations. 

38 

GAZ9, Dungeon Master's Booklet, History of the 
Minrothad Guilds, only says: «In the third century AC, 
human and elvish cultures finally stumbled upon one 
another when volcanic activity forced elves to seek out 
other appropriate settlements in the island chain». Exact 
year of the elves' meeting with humans is indicated in the 
Historical Synopsis of the Minrothad Isles as AC 276. I 
further elaborated the story of the end of elven isolationism 
and the encounter with humans. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CI7G Histony of leneNOi aNt) Miiwotliao 
m 




In AC 276, the water elves revealed their 
existence to the outside world by sending an 
embassy first to Harbortown and then to New 
Alphatia; friendly contacts were established, 
and subsequently Minrothian and Alphatian 
diplomats were allowed to visit Alfeisle to 
contemplate the water elves' civilization, while 
the elves were allowed to visit human towns 
on Trader's Isle. The elves were much 
impressed by the Alphatians' magic - which 
had in the past decades applied almost 
exclusively to tasks related to sea and weather 
- as well as by the alliance's wealth and 
abundance in trade goods; on the other hand, 
the humans were astonished by the water 
elves' ship design and intrigued by their sailing 
skills. 

The Birth of the Human-Elven Trading 
Combine 

Only a few months passed before the 
Minrothians offered the water elves an 
agreement to form a joint trading combine 
with themselves and the Alphatians, to share 
knowledge and open trade among them. The 
water elves, never oblivious of their wood elf 
kin, sent words to them in order to persuade 
their leaders to join the combine as well. 
Prostrated by years of famine, the wood elves 
accepted to share their woodworking products 
and skills in exchange for food. 

Thus, the combine was created in the same 
year of AC 276. The four peoples traded goods, 
services, and vessels among them, sharing 
knowledge about magic, seafaring, and 
shipbuilding. They soon began to perform 
joint trading ventures in near and distant 
lands. The wars raging between the Thyatian 
and Alphatian empires in the east were a boon 
for the combine's economy, because both 
empires relied heavily on merchant shipping 
to carry booty and supplies from and to 



occupied territories. The members of the 
combine were shrewd in negotiating and 
keeping their neutrality between the two 
large and powerful empires, allying with 
neither but trading with and selling services 
to both. 

The Slave Trade Wars and the Water Elf 
Emigration 

Tensions between the Minrothians of 
Harbortown and the Alphatians of New 
Alphatia sparkled again when, around AC 
280, Minrothians and Alphatians were for the 
first time involved in slave trade toward the 
markets of the Thyatian Empire. They took 
slaves from the Makai islands, from the 
Atruaghin and Five Shires coastlands, from 
Traladara, and sold them in Thyatian markets, 
or offered their transportation services for 
inter-imperial slave trade. This trade was very 
profitable and brought a great amount of 
money into the coffers of the two peoples in 
a short time. Nevertheless, the problem of 
inter-imperial slave trade was that most of 
the slaves bought and sold were of Alphatian 
descent 39 - prisoners of war in Thyatis' Isle 
of Dawn campaigns. The people of New 
Alphatia began to voice their opinion against 
this trade, advocating a limit on slave trade 
as to avoid buying and selling Alphatian 
slaves. Minrothians, on the other hand, were 
not willing at all to limit the wealth coming 
into their coffers from such a trade. 



39 

GAZ9, Dungeon Master's Booklet, History of the 
Minrothad Guilds, only says that «In the next decade [after 
AC 276], Minrothians and New Alphatians fought over the 
slave trading of Alphatian sailors»; this passage can be 
variously interpreted, the one featured in the article is just 
one of many possibilities. The exact year of the war is 
indicated in the Historical Synopsis of the Minrothad Isles 
as AC 284; I chose to have a previous phase of the conflict 
in AC 281-283 to increase the importance of this war. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Histony of ieneNOi aNO MiNnotftat) 




Things went on nervously between the two 
peoples, with tensions running higher up to 
the point when some Alphatians began to 
sabotage Minrothian slave trade. Harbortown 
authorities lost no time and retaliated, 
declaring war on NewAlphatia in AC 281. The 
Slave Trade Wars were two conflicts 
interspersed by a truce, the first one lasting 
from AC 281 to AC 283, and the second fought 
in AC 284. They carried on through skirmishes, 
corsair raids, sea battles, and truces, with 
neither side managing to get the upper hand 
nor accepting to come to terms with their 
opponent. The trading power gained by the 
combine severely lessened during this war, 
much to the satisfaction of the Thyatians and 
the disappointment of Alfeisle's elves. 

In the end the elves - who nevertheless were 
opposed to the slave trade altogether - 
stepped in and forced the two exhausted 
human opponents to make peace at the end 
of AC 284, threatening to enter the war on the 
Alphatians' side. They allowed Minrothian 
slave trade to continue, but under heavy 
limitations and with the forbiddance to trade 
ethnic Alphatians. While the Alphatians were 
content with this development, the 
Minrothians were not, because the limitations 
they had to accept cut a very large slice of their 
profits from the slave trade, and also deprived 
them of most of the money they obtained from 
Thyatian markets. Despite this, they had to 
grudgingly comply but were embittered by this 
defeat. 

Also, in the years after AC 276 the water elves 
began to travel in surrounding lands, 
exploring them, establishing trade relations, 
and even founding small colonies of migrants 
in some of the most strategic or profitable 
sites. Most of these colonies were made up by 
trade agents, their aides, and their families, 



and were supposed to be temporary and with 
rotating personnel, with new agents from 
Alfeisle replacing the previous ones after 
some years. Nevertheless, slowly small water 
elf communities developed in places like 
Terentias, Actius, Port Lucinius, West Portage, 
and other cities and towns of the Western Sea 
of Dawn, even up to Seagirt in the Pearl 
Islands. Such emigration toward places in the 
east was also influenced by the instability 
which reigned in the Colony Islands for years 
as a consequence of the Slave Trade Wars - 
actually forcing elven emigration to head 
elsewhere. 

With peace again restored, the elves and the 
humans of the Colony Islands put again their 
best efforts in trade, in order to rebuild the 
influence they had lost. Even if a trading 
combine between the three was formally 
re-established, rivalry between Harbortown 
and New Alphatia continued to run high, as 
did the elves' distrust for the quarrelsome 
and unpredictable humans. The fourth 
century AC was an age of prosperity for the 
Colony Islands. Water elf trade increased and 
in AC 300 the elves built their first great port 
city, Seahome, to host foreign merchants and 
ships and their own great shipbuilding 
facilities. 

A Century of Prosperity 

Minrothians, bitter after the humiliation they 
had suffered from Alphatians and elves in AC 
284, pursued aggressive trade policies aimed 
at increasing their power and influence. 
Wealthy Minrothian families were involved 
in the internal affairs of the Thyatian Empire, 
lending money to a couple of emperors or 
imperial candidates during the Thyatian Civil 
War (which had started in AC 313); in AC 318, 
as indemnity for a debt left unpaid by the 
Thyatian throne, the Minrothians assumed 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e Histony of ieneNfci aNO MiNnotliaO 
m 




control of the island of Terentias - where a 
loud minority also including the local water 
elf community was advocating autonomy from 
the empire - which was confirmed by Thyatis 
some years later 40 . 

Relations between Harbortown and Thyatis 
improved as the Minrothians continued to 
practice moneylending activity in favor of 
several Thyatian emperors, thus linking the 
future of their finances with that of the empire. 
Moreover, the weakening of Thyatis after the 
civil war allowed them to successfully occupy 
the vacuum left by the waning of the Thyatian 
trade power in this century, penetrating the 
eastern markets of the Isle of Dawn and 
beyond; this was made easier by the fact that 
Thyatian emperors of this time were willing 
to grant the Minrothians special trade 
concessions in exchange for money. This 
meant, fatally and again, an increasing 
Minrothian involvement in slave trade. 

Around AC 360, the Minrothians felt strong 
enough to challenge limitations imposed on 
slave trade by the peace of AC 284. Again they 
carried slaves all over the Thyatian Empire's 
markets, making great profits, all the while 
expanding their trade network to the Eastern 
Sea of Dawn and to the Alphatian coasts. This 
time they also followed Thyatian customs and 
introduced slaves in Harbortown; their favored 
targets for this role were the halflings of the 
Five Shires, who they captured through swift 
raids and employed in their isles in a variery 
of tasks. In the next century, several thousand 
halflings were brought in the Colony Islands' 
Minrothian possessions as slaves 41 . 

40 This further change of control over Terentias was taken 
from the History of the Thyatian People (by J. Ruhland)]; I 
slightly elaborated the event further. 

41 The history of the Five Shires is quite empty between 5 th 
century BC and 5 th century AC, as GAZ8 doesn't give much 
insight on this age. If the Hin coasts were so easily hit by 



Alphatians and elves were disappointed by 
the turn of the events, but were wary about 
taking direct action against the Minrothians 
because of the latter's ties with Thyatis. They 
preferred for now to keep their alliance with 
the Minrothians and to exploit the influence 
of Harbortown to expand their own trading 
networks. 

Despite these internal rivalries, this age was 
very prosperous for all members of the 
trading combine, whose network touched 
almost all coastal regions of the Known 
World, where old and new nations were 
emerging and willing to receive the trade 
goods from distant places that the combine's 
merchants carried. However, this prosperity 
was about to come to an end in the 5 th century 
AC, when lycanthropic epidemics spread in 
the archipelago. 

riie IeueNDi IslaNDs in ttie Fiust 
Four CeNtuuies AC 

While all these events were taking place in 
the Colony Islands - the Alphatians' 
migration, the end of the elves' isolationism, 
the formation of the trading combine, and so 
on - in the five centuries between the 
crowning of Emperor Zendrolion I (AC 0) 
and the coming of the first convicts in the 
Ierendi Islands from the Five Shires (6 th 
century AC), the Makai flourished and grew 
in prosperity, their local kingdoms exerting 
a wider control over the archipelago and 
mantaining increasing relations with other 
peoples and nations of the mainland. 

Minrothian slave traders, it may be guessed that the 4 th and 
5 th centuries AC were a time of internal trouble or crisis in 
the Shires, whose naval rise should still come by. See also 
the following paragraph about "The Ierendi Islands in the 
First Four Centuries AC" for additional causes which 
favored the expansion of Minrothian slave trade to the Five 
Shires. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNnotliaO 




t^e leueNoi aNO Coioisjy isiaNOs during tt?e MioDie CeNtimies 

From tfte Fall of Nittjia (BC <>oo) to tt)e s^ceNtuRy AC 




CHVAriAN EMPIRE 



IEREND1 ISLANDS 



OrHER 



r i u 



Unit of AlpUattaN IjottiiNcs 
?CDyatisiBC i9o-2l 



rennitonteeof UK' rrjyatlaN E^ptae 
uwoc-n EMpciton ZeNCmotloN t<AC 0-20) 

Tennhoniefi coNgucrccb 
by 'Chyatie af ten AC 20 



COLONy ISLANDS 



? 



HanborttowN claiM oven 

1(1C COkJNy IfilaNtJS 



? 



Arreas actually settled 
by We MtNncilWaNs 

?Cert n Item y eeteeO by rije 
Alpnattaw In AC jw 

rcrtcNtiaslto AlpUatia BC ito-ibo, to Hanbontown 
BC ibo AC I20, iHOipewtieTrt AC 120-127, to Chyalis 
AC I27-3IB, to HartbontowN Iheneaftetil 

waten aNt> woob elvew 
frolbiNqe iN Alfetsle 



Aiieasof Uttett Want) iNtjablleb 
by ti)t Albino people 

KiNeiboM of 1enewt>i UNberc 
Kapeva Kekoa IBC \ ?e> 

KLNQ&OM Of KaUfJONa 

111 in r; Makai lennttontE6 

KiuqooM of lertojoi at tne beatfj 
of Kapc»a IkaikalAC 317) 



? 



E3 



(Callaitli a>j& Vyalia claNel 

Ki»q(»M of titalabarca at the Cn.;illi of 
RootJan IvaNoviclj (AC 

"CeHRiloRteeof lire Alnuaq^iw ClaKs 
?CcnnilonicEof 1hc rive Shines 

DOnbtll£Of tlK LOllbfiQlpOf 

Mcnuvait (BC *7*-f74) 

ttRRitowyof the dtyslaleof Athens 

Mam cilicfi 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNt) MiNnotftat) 




The kingdoms' population began to grow 
again after the Goblin Wars, and some tribes 
of Makai settled the islands which had been 
left depopulated since the ancient age of 
seismic disasters (like Alcove, Aloysius, and 
Roister). By mid 4* century AC, all the eight 
major islands of the Ierendi archipelago 
(except White Island and Honor Island, which 
was inhabited by some of the last goblin tribes) 
had been settled to some extent by Makai 
tribes. 

Pirates, exhiles, and outlaws fleeing from their 
country sometimes still found shelter among 
the Makai as in the previous age. Fletcher 
Island, in particular, became an emigration 
spot for a small number of coastal Traladarans 
who left their homeland during times of war 
or economic crisis (such as during the 
Traladaran Wars of the 5 th century AC 42 ). Angel 
Cove on Alcove Island, instead, became a 
haven of pirate activity in the region, which 
local Makai kings never managed to uproot. 

The Ierendi Islands were still considered a 
backward and unimportant place by the rising 
powers of the Known World at the beginning 
of the first century AC, but the situation 
changed afterwards. The small Traladaran 
domains and the nearby Five Shires had 
consolidated a steady trade with the 
archipelago's local Makai kingdoms; the 
islands' natural resources - gemstones, 
precious metals, and wood - began to be 
looked upon and coveted with some interest 
by sea traders and expansion-minded rulers 
abroad, especially in Harbortown and Thyatis. 



The political situation of the Ierendi Islands 
was not very stable, however. Local kingdoms 
occasionally waged war against one another 
in order to expand their domains. At the end 
of the 3 rd century AC, King Kapena Ikaika "the 
Great" of Ierendi (who ruled from AC 285 to 
AC 317), through a series of daring military 
campaigns, conquered the lesser neighboring 
Makai kingdoms and ruled over a realm 
encompassing the whole Ierendi Island, and 
Elegy, Fletcher, Roister, and Safari islands. 
Kapena Ikaika also signed agreements with 
the Hin of the Five Shires and with the 
newly-created Kingdom of Traladara under 
Bogdan Ivanovich in order to keep the seas 
around these lands devoid from Minrothian 
and Thyatian threats, mostly represented by 
pirates and slavers. 

Kapena Ikaika' s successors were not as able 
as he was. Unrest burst in the kingdom's 
peripheral areas, and the ability of the kings 
to put down such rebellion was depressed 
by the intrusion of foreign merchants and 
pirates, who lended their support to the 
rebels in order to destabilize the kingdom. 
The loss of authority of the king became 
evident when in AC 343 Kapena Ikaika's 
grandson, Kapena Kapono, was abducted by 
the Minrothian sea captain and pirate Reho 
Chemnis and held for ransom 43 . The Makai 
kings ultimately proved unable both to hold 
together the varius tribes which had been 
forcibly subdued, and to keep the archipelago 
free from pirates' and slavers' raids from 
Harbortown and Thyatis. The Five Shires, 
plagued by internal trobules in the 4* century 



About the Traladaran Wars, see Threshold issue 1, The 
History of Karameikos, pages 56-57, and most of all A 
Karameikan Companion (by G. Agosta)]. 



The Ierendi Kings (Kapena Ikaika and Kapena Kapono), 
the character of Reho Chemnis, and events relating to the 
rise and decline of the Makai kingdom were created by the 
author, after some suggestions by F. Defferrari. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



AC, could not help, neither could Bogdan 
Ivanovich's Kingdom of Traladara, which 
crumbled at his death in AC 356 44 . 

Thus, at the turn of the second half of the 4* 
century AC, political disintegration and unrest 
in Ierendi, Traladara, and the Five Shires 
proved instrumental for the beginning of a 
renewed season of raids from slave-trading 
powers like the Minrothians of Harbortown 
and the Empire of Thyatis. Thyatian and 
Minrothian slavers made frequent inroads into 

44 See also note 41, above, about troubles in the Five 
Shires. The reign of Bogdan Ivanovich in Traladara is 
mentioned also in Threshold issue 1, The History of 
Karameikos, page 54, and more extensively in A 
Karameikan Companion (by G. Agosta)]. 



the archipelago, swiftly attacking isolated 
Makai villages and capturing as many slaves 
as they could. These peoples were then 
brought to slave markets all over the Thyatian 
Empire. Slave trade in this area was mostly 
left to Minrothians' control by the empire, 
which relied on Harbortown to feed the 
request of slaves by its markets. Thus, the 
Minrothians' raids into the archipelago 
increased, reaching a peak in the 4* century 
AC, at the same time in which the Minrothian 
slave traders were hitting the Five Shires' 
coasts. But the spread of the lycanthropic 
plague in the 5 th century AC would have 
imposed a different turn to events. 



A Sea of MiquatioNS 

Despite its name and alleged dangerousness, 
the ages of violent seismic activity, the 
presence of pirates and hostile peoples, and 
the rumors of a colossal underwater monster 
capable of swallowing whole fleets, the Sea 
of Dread always was and continues to be a 
crossroads of migrating peoples and trade 
which has linked since the ancient times the 
coasts of Brun to Davania, and those of the 
Isle of Dawn to the Serpent Peninsula. 

In order to make the reader familiar with 
the continuous passage of peoples from one 
shore to another of the Sea of Dread, this 
sidebar will summarize the main events and 
migrations which have crossed it during the 
course of its history, from the Great Rain of 
Fire until AC 0. 

BC 3000: What will become the Sea of Dread 
shifts from the arctic latitude to a temperate- 
subtropical one. 



BC 2800: Southeastern Brun (nowadays 
archipelagos of Minrothad and Ierendi) and 
some of the northern islands and 
archipelagos of what will become the Sea of 
Dread are inhabited by the Oteino (an Oltec- 
or Azcan-descended human population) and 
the lizardmen. 

BC 2500: By this time the Eokai have 
migrated from the Davanian coast 
northward, settling many islands and 
archipelagos of the Sea of Dread, and 
establishing settlements also on Brun's 
southeastern coasts. The Taymora arrive 
from the north in southeastern Brun. 

BC 2450: The koprus establish a realm 
called Adhuza in the Eastern Thanegioth 
Archipelago (which at that time is a single, 
huge island), inhabited predominantly by 
the Mawa humans and the aranea, with small 
scattered groups of Eokai and Oteino in 
surrounding islands. The Mawa people start 
migrating slowly from the Eastern 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Histony of leneNOi aNO MiNuotrjat) 
rm 




Thanegioth Archipelago to the other isles and 
island chains of the northern Sea of Dread 
(the process will take about another five 
hundred years). 

BC 2250: First elven immigrants reach the 
Taymoran lands from the Serpent Peninsula. 

BC 2200: Tanagoro settlers coming from the 
Izondian Deep migrate to the Serpent 
Peninsula and settle there. 

BC 2100: After squabbles with newcomer 
Tanagoro, clans of elves (Meditor water elves, 
and Verdier wood and fair elves) migrate from 
the Serpent Peninsula to the lands east of the 
Taymora civilization. 

BC 2000: Civil war and seismic activity start 
the destruction of Taymoran civilization. The 
Aquarendi arrive in the northern Sea of Dread 
and settle in the waters around the areas 
inhabited by land elves. 

BC 1750: Huge earthquakes break the 
southeastern corner of Brun, forming large 
islands. The last remnants of the Taymoran 
civilization disappear under the waves. The 
Serpent Peninsula is partially flooded: Dhiki 
Namazzi and Thanegia Island are created. 

BC 1720: Kikianu Caldera event; the southern 
coast and isles of the Known World assume 
their modern geographical appearance. The 
Verdier wood elves, separated from their 
water elf kin by the newly-created sea, migrate 
from the forested coasts of nowadays 
Karameikos (leaving their fair elf brethren 
there) to Alfeisle. Fall of the kopru realm of 
Adhuza as their island becomes an 
archipelago. Merrows living around Adhuza 
split: a half, made up by nomadic tribes, 
migrate north and settle in the Sunlit Sea; the 
other assume the dominance over the seas 
around the newly-created archipelago after 
the demise of the koprus. 



BC 1600: By this date, the Makai culture has 
formed in the western islands of the 
northern Sea of Dread, that will become the 
Ierendi archipelago; the Makai are the result 
of the absorption of the Oteino and Eokai 
human people by the more recently- 
migrated Mawa. 

BC 1500: Halflings migrating from the 
Adakkian Sound settle in Thanegia Island, 
south of the Serpent Peninsula. The Nithian 
clan of Ptahr-al-Dar sails up to modern 
Traladara and conquers the region. A 
fearsome colossal monster of ocean abysses, 
the Behemoth, awakens and brings 
destruction in the Sea of Dread; the merrows 
of Thanegioth manage to put it to sleep again 
using a dangerous and costly ritual. 

BC 1300: Halflings migrate from Thanegia 
Island and land in the modern Five Shires. 
Rise of Traldar naval power; colonies 
established by the coastal kingdoms in some 
of the southern islands and in nearby coasts. 

BC 1200: Tanagoro peoples coming from 
the Serpent Peninsula gradually settle the 
Western Thanegioth Archipelago and move 
further east, in the Eastern Thanegioth 
Archipelago and other tiny islands of the Sea 
of Dread, where they meet the local Eokai, 
Mawa, and Oteino. 

BC 1100: A Nithian expedition led by 
Minroth colonizes Trader's Isle and the 
surrounding islands, which are called Colony 
Islands. The Nithian Empire begins to 
challenge Traldar supremacy in the northern 
Sea of Dread. 

BC 1000: From the Colony Islands, the 
Nithians carry on the conquest of the 
neighboring islands of the Makai, which are 
enslaved alongside local halflings; first 
clashes with local lizardmen tribes. The 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e Histony of leneNOi aNt) MiNnotftaO 




inhabitants of the Traldar city of Mirlenos, 
led by King Milen, flee from the Traldar lands 
which are being invaded by bloodthirsty 
gnolls; they sail past the Nithian-controlled 
southern islands, and - after being chased 
by the reawakened Behemoth - reach the 
Davanian Jungle Coast, landing at the mouth 
of a river in front of the modern island of 
Dwair (in the Pearl Islands). Meanwhile, the 
Traldar civilization is ravaged by the gnolls; 
end of Traldar naval power. Afterwards, the 
Nithians transplant many human tribes from 
the Northern Reaches to modern Hinterlands 
region in northern Davania, and establish a 
colony there. 

BC 900: The Nithian colony in modern 
Hinterlands is ravaged by a slave uprising; 
the freed slaves are the ancestors of the 
Thyatians. 

BC 800: The Nithians start taking halfling 
slaves from the Ierendi archipelago; halfling 
presence there is erased in the turn of a few 
centuries, as many halflings are brought to 
the Northern Reaches and in other provinces 
of the empire. 

BC 700: The Nithian Empire turns to the 
worship of Entropy; civil strife plagues the 
empire. The Colony Islands keep their faith 
in Minroth and keep neutral, pursuing trade. 

BC 650: The Nithians bring goblin slaves into 
the Makai islands to fight local lizardmen. 

BC 600: Thyatian, Kerendan, and Hattian 
tribes set sail from modern Hinterlands' 
shores in order to flee from Milenian 
expansionism. They settle in modern 
mainland Thyatis and Hattias. 



BC 500: Fall of the Nithian Empire, which is 
destroyed by the Immortals. Lizardman 
culture becomes extinct in the Makai islands. 
Rise of Thyatian piracy across the northern 
Sea of Dread; many coastal settlements are 
plundered or pay tribute to avoid becoming 
targets of raids. 

BC 400: A new awakening of the Behemoth 
starts a century and a half of destruction and 
ravages for coastal settlement in the northern 
coast of Davania and for underwater cultures 
up to the Eastern Thanegioth Archipelago. 

BC 250: Last recorded sighting of the 
Behemoth. 

BC 200: Tritons reach the Sunlit Sea area 
and begin warring against local merrow; at 
the end of a long age of struggle, the tritons 
manage to establish the Kingdom of 
Undersea. 

BC 190: Thyatian piracy comes to a sudden 
end when the Alphatian Empire completes 
the conquest of Thyatis. 

BC 180: Rise of Minrothian trade power 
thanks to agreements with the Alphatian 
Empire. 

BC 178: The Makai realm of King Kapena 
Kekoa extends its control over most of 
Ierendi, Fletcher, and Safari islands. 

BC 100: The Alphatian conquest of the Pearl 
Islands triggers a wave of Nuari migrations 
toward the southern islands and archipelagos 
of the Sea of Dread. 

AC 0: Empire of Thyatis established after the 
Struggle for Freedom. Resurgence of 
Thyatian military and naval power. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



MiNnotliaO MencftaNt-PniNce 





M Minrothad Merchant^Princc 

TOE VAULTS 

OF PANDIUS a 3.5 prestige class 



by Troy Terrell (CmdrCorsiken) 



"Flamboyant fellows they are, all puffed up 
with themselves. So they can conjure 
elementals. So can any Glantri 1 lord worth 
the name! But Minrothaddans regard them as 
nobility for their spell casting as much as their 
money. Hmm.... Perhaps they're learning 
something from us after all." -Vinciento de 
Belcadiz, Glantri Ambassador to Minrothad. 

In the island nation of Minrothad, there is a 
long tradition of magic used aboard ship to 
aid in seafaring. Since most elvish captains 
knew a little sea or weather magic, the 
combination of merchant skill and spell casting 
became identified as one in the person of the 
Merchant- Prince of Minrothad. This 
combination of magic and skill make him a 
cunning businessman, a skilled seaman, as 
well as an effective leader. He is capable of 
successfully leading his crew through the many 
dangers of weather and commerce, with a tidy 
profit at the end. 

Rogues and rangers with experience in 
professions and crafts associated with seafaring 
and trade make the best merchant-princes. 
Bards, druids, and wizards can also attain the 
necessary skills, but usually focus on their own 
spellcasting development and are more often 
employed in support roles or as companions 
to established merchant-princes. The same 
can be said for clerics of ocean deities. 

NPC merchant-princes are often the most elite 
of experts in fields associated with seafaring 

1 GAZ9: The Minrothad Guilds Dungeon Master's Booklet 
page 16 



and trading, master navigators and master 
craftsmen. Only a few are admitted to the 
exclusive academy which trains its students 
in the arts of sea and air magic. 



Alignment: Any. 
Hit Die: d6 

Requirements 

To qualify to become a Minrothad merchant- 
prince, a character must fulfill all the 
following criteria. 

Skills: Appraise 3 ranks, Bluff or Diplomacy 
3 ranks, Profession (sailor) 6 ranks, Craft 
(any) or Profession (any) 3 ranks. 

Feats: Negotiator 

Special: The character must either hail from 
one of the islands of Minrothad or must have 
worked aboard a Minrothad merchant vessel 
for at least two years. The character must 
also apply to and be admitted to the 
prestigious Minrothad Merchant Academy. 

Class Skills: Appraise, Balance, Bluff, Climb, 
Concentration, Craft, Diplomacy, Gather 
Information, Jump, Knowledge (arcana), 
Knowledge (geography), Knowledge 
(nature), Listen, Profession, Sense Motive, 
Speak Language, Spellcraft, Spot, Survival, 
Swim, Use Rope. 

Skill Points at Each Level: 4 + Int modifier. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



MiNnotliaO MencftaNt-PniNce 




CLASS FEATURES 

All of the following are class features of the 
Minrothad Merchant Prince. 

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Minrothad 
Merchant-Princes gain no additional weapon 
or armor proficiencies. 

Spells per day: A Minrothad Merchant-Prince 
prepares and casts arcane spells according to 
Table 1. To cast a spell, he must have a 
Charisma score of at least 10 + the spell's level. 
Bonus spells are based on Charisma, and saves 
against these spells have a DC of 10 + spell 
level + the merchant-prince's Charisma 
modifier. When he gets spells of a given 
level, he gets only bonus spells. A merchant- 
prince has access to any spell on the list 
(below) and can freely choose which to 
prepare. 

Water Focus: At 1st level and higher, he casts 
all spells with the 'water' descriptor, including 
those modified to be such, at + 1 caster level. 
At 6th level and higher, he casts them at +2 
caster levels. Any save DCs increase by the 
same amount, + 1 at first level, +2 at sixth. 

Leadership: At 1st level, a Minrothad 
merchant-prince gains the Leadership feat 
without having to meet the normal 
prerequisites. 

Air Focus: The other vital aspect of a 
Minrothad merchant-prince's is air magic. At 
2nd level and higher, he casts all spells with 
the 'air' descriptor, including those modified 
to be such, at + 1 caster level. At 7th level and 
higher, he casts them at +2 caster levels. Any 
save DCs increase by the same amount, + 1 at 
second, +2 at seventh. 

Weather Sense: At 2nd level a Minrothad 
merchant-prince's connection to the forces of 



air and water provide additional insight into 
weather patterns. When on the ocean or 
within eight miles of an ocean or large lake 
(at least 50 square miles in area), he gains a 
+ 1 bonus to all Survival and Knowledge 
(nature) checks involving weather prediction 
or phenomena. This bonus increases by + 1 
each even level attained. 

Resourceful Trader: At 3rd level, a 
Minrothad merchant-prince's growing list of 
business contacts and specialized dealers 
allow him to treat any community as one size 
larger for purposes of the maximum price 
item that can be bought or sold. 

Wind at your back: At 5th level, any ship 
commanded by a Minrothad prince moves at 
one mile per hour faster than normal. 

Bonus feat: At 5th and 9th level, a Minrothad 
prince may select a feat from the following 
list: Acrobatic, Athletic, Charlatan, Diligent, 
Great Fortitude, Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, 
Persuasive, Sea Legs, Ship's Mage, 
Trustworthy, any Metamagic. He must still 
meet all requirements for whatever feat he 
selects. 

MERCHANT-PRINCE 
SPELL LIST 

Minrothad merchant-princes choose their 
spells from the following list: 

level - Create Water, Daze, Detect Sea Life*, 
Light, Mending, Purify Food and Drink, Read 
Magic 

1st level - Endure Elements, Entangle, Faerie 
Fire, Obscuring Mist, Produce Flame, Speak 
with Sea Creatures*, Summon Sea Creature 
I*, Wave Blessing (SW) 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Miiwothat) MencliaNt-PniNce 
m 




2nd level - Call Lightning, Fog Cloud, Make 
Whole, Resist Energy, Stormrunner's Ward 
(SW), Summon Sea Creature II*, Swim (SW), 
Warp Wood, Whispering Wind 

3rd level - Detect Ship (SW), Favorable Wind 
(SW), Fire Ball, Lightning Bolt, Protection from 
Energy, Quench, Summon Sea Creature IIP, 
Water Breathing, Water Walk 

4th level - Air Walk, Control Currents (SW), 
Control Water, Disguise Ship (SW), Freedom 
of Movement, Sending, Summon Sea Creature 
IV*, Tongues, Wake Trailing (SW) 

5th level - Call Lightning Storm, Control 
Winds, Find Port*, Summon Sea Creature V*, 
True Seeing 

6th level - Acid Fog, Chain Lightning, Control 
Weather, Summon Air/Water Elemental* 

(SW) = spells from Stormwrack 2 

*Specializeb Spells 

Detect Sea Life: as Detect Animals or Plants, 
but only animals and plants of the sea. 

Find Port: as Find the Path, but only toward 
a known port. 

Speak with Sea Creatures: as Speak with 
Animals, but only with creatures native to the 
sea. 

Summon Air/Water Elemental: as Summon 
Nature's Ally VII, but only for air or water 
elemental. 

Summon Sea Creature: as Summon Nature's 
Ally, but only brings creatures native to the 
sea. 



© 2005 Wizards of the Coast 



DesiQN Notes 

In adapting the Minrothad Merchant-Prince 
class from Gazetteer 9 Minrothad Guilds, I 
initially considered developing a full base 
class progression. However, with the 
significant differences in how classes in the 
BECMI rules and the 3.5 rules progress, a 
prestige class seemed the best way to bring 
the Minrothad Merchant-Price into the 3.5 
ruleset. 

Still, since the original class could be taken 
by a lst-level character, it was necessary to 
make entry into the prestige class possible at 
a rather early character level. Thus, it is 
possible to enter this prestige class as early 
as 4th level, which is two to four levels sooner 
than most 3-5 prestige classes. The in-world, 
setting-specific circumstances included in the 
requirements allow the DM to control access. 

As spellcasting is fundamental to the 
Minrothad Merchant-Prince, a workable spell 
progression was needed. Given the emphasis 
on magic inherent to the original class, a fairly 
focused but relatively aggressive progression 
was in order; thus, a tightly limited spell list 
with seven total spell levels available. 

Water and air magic in particular are key 
aspects of a Minrothad Merchant-Prince's 
seafaring magical abilities. A scaling bonus 
to the casting variables of those types of spells 
was a simple way to represent this. 

Similarly, a scaling bonus on skill checks 
related to weather, along with an increase in 
the speed of his vessel, fills the need for 
advancing seafaring prowess. 

Making business deals is another aspect of 
the Minrothad Merchant-Prince's abilities. 
While much of this is covered by normal skill 
advancement, an additional special ability to 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



MiNnotftaO MeitcftaNt-PttiNce 




make more lucrative deals provides an 
interesting twist. 

Recruiting a loyal crew is also important to a 
Minrothad Merchant-Prince, so granting the 
Leadership feat early was an easy choice. 

Finally, a couple of bonus feats allows for some 
extra customization from one merchant-prince 
character to another. 



Merchant Prince 

Table i : HY)G MiNRotliat) MeuctiaNt-PRiNce 




Spells per Day 



Level 


Base 
Attack 


Fort 

Save 


Ref 

Save 


Will 

Save 


Special 





1st 


2nd 


3rd 


4th 


5th 


6th 


1st 


+ 


+ 


+ 2 


+ 2 


Water focus +1, 
leadership 


2 


1 













2nd 


+ 1 


+ 


+ 3 


+ 3 


Air focus + 1, weather 
sense +1 


2 


2 


1 











3rd 


+ 2 


+ 1 


+3 


+3 


Resourceful trader 


3 


2 


2 











4th 


+ 3 


+ 1 


+4 


+4 


Weather sense + 2 


3 


3 


2 


1 









5th 


+ 3 


+ 1 


+4 


+ 4 


Wind at your back, 
bonus feat 


4 


3 


3 


2 









6th 


+4 


+ 2 


+ 5 


+ 5 


Water focus +2, weather 
sense +3 


4 


4 


3 


3 


1 







7th 


+ 5 


+ 2 


+ 5 


+ 5 


Air focus +2 


5 


4 


4 


3 


2 







8th 


+6 


+ 2 


+ 6 


+ 6 


Weather sense +4 


5 


5 


4 


4 


2 


1 





9th 


+6 


+ 3 


+ 6 


+ 6 


Bonus feat 


6 


5 


5 


4 


3 


2 


1 


10th 


+ 7 


+ 3 


+ 7 


+ 7 


Weather sense + 5 


6 


6 


5 


5 


3 


2 


2 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJovenNMGNt aNO Anistocnacy 




HY)Q leueNbiaN QoveRNMeNt 

Ierendi is a city-state, formally organised as a 
diarchy - the joint rule of a King and Queen 
~ but actually run as an oligarchic republic ~ 
the collective rule of a council of aristocrats, 
known as the Tribunal of Ierendi. The personal 
prestige of the famous adventurers who win 
the yearly appointment as King and Queen 
contributes to maintain the atmosphere of the 
city, a peculiar style that is flamboyant yet 
casual, which is designed to appeal to rich 
foreigners as well as to the local populace, and 
to divert attention from the real government 
engine. Besides the Tribunal, the other powers 
behind the throne are the mysterious fire 
mages of Honor Island, who act in Ierendi 
through a plenipotentiary, and the military. 
The Kingdom of Undersea also exerts a major 
influence, especially through the navy and the 
merchant and privateer families 1 . 

King & Queen 

The Royals of Ierendi hold merely ceremonial 
titles, conferred yearly as the result of the 
Great Tournament. Any authority they exert 
is based on personal influence, charisma and 
money, not derived from the law, as any laws 



It is worth noting that the independence of Ierendi from 
Thyatis and other powers is ensured only by the military and 
intelligence help the Kingdom receives from Honour Island 
and Undersea. 




Fighting in the Tournament of Ierendi 

proposed by the Royals need to be approved 
by the Tribunal in order to become effective. 

The King and Queen, however, have some 
privileges, in particular in the appointment 
of some officials, the Ministers. They also 
select the Kia'i, or Guardians of Ierendi. It is 
worth noting that particularly savvy Kings or 
Queens may remain in charge for long 
periods, and end up exerting significant 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieiteNfciaN CJovenNMGNt aNO Anistocnacy 




influence over the government thanks to their 
popularity. King and Queen are simply two 
offices, and do not imply any personal relation 
between the two - actually, it is quite common 
for both the King and Queen to have families. 

Ministers 

Eight ministers (four Ministers of the King and 
four Ministers of the Queen) complete the 
Royal Court. Ministers are basically agents at 
the direct service of the King and Queen. 
Contrary to ministers of other nations, they 
have no role in the executive, and act more as 
diplomats and advisors. They also help the 
King and Queen in their public role, and may 
replace them on occasion - e.g., when an 
official is needed to make a speech on one of 
the lesser islands, a Minister might be sent 
instead of the King or Queen. 

Tribunal 

The Tribunal of Ierendi, formerly known as 
the Council of Lords, is composed of 21 
members from the most powerful aristocratic 
families. These positions are formally elective, 
but de facto hereditary ~ only should a family 
not be able to fill the Tribunal position, then 
the Council of Citizen would select a new 
family to take its place. All Tribunes are, 
formally, named by the King and Queen 
through a joint decree. 

The Tribunal holds the executive and judiciary 
powers, exerting the former through the 
Council of the Sages and the latter through the 
Guard 2 . Moreover, the Tribunal must confirm 



The Guard has the authority to pass sentences, while the 
Tribunal acts mostly as a court of appeals. Only members of 
Baronial families or those that belong to the Council of 
Citizens can request a trial at the Tribunal without a sentence 
passed by the Guard. It is also worth noting that the Tribunal 
has little to no interest in fair trials - most appeals are simply 
handled by confirming whatever sentence came from the 




The Tribunal of Ierendi 



all laws, which makes it the holder of the true 
legislative power - in essence, the Tribunal 
is the true ruler of Ierendi. 

The Tribunal often appoints Colleges 3 , that 
is smaller groups of Tribunes who are in 
charge of handling urgent problems, study 
and draft laws on a given issue, or otherwise 
act in place of the entire Tribunal with greater 
speed than allowed by the full assembly. A 
College has at least three members, and rarely 
more than seven - since any more would 
make the College little different from the 
Tribunal itself. 

The Tribunal is presided by the Chancellor 
of the Tribunal, elected yearly by the Tribunes. 

A family that is selected to join the Tribunal 
receives the Baronial title. Individual 

Guard, with an added penalty to discourage other people 
from appealing the Guard's judgements. 

3 

For example, in the War of the Master crisis, the Tribunal 
appoints a college composed of the Lords Seilus, Meikros 
and Karibus to deal with the events [See X10 " Red Arrow, 
Black Shield'] 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNfciaN CJovenNivteNt aNO Anistocnacy 




Tribunes may not have the Baron title, but in 
general this only happens when the current 
Baron is old, and is replaced by his heir on the 
Tribunal. In most other cases, Tribunes are 
also Barons. However, the number of Barons 
is not fixed ~ there are more Barons than 
Tribunes. This is because some families never 
were on the Tribunal, but were awarded a 
Baronial title by the Kings (this is formally still 
the case, but nowadays Baronial titles are only 
issued by the King and Queen, while the 
decision to award such titles is taken by the 
Tribunal), while at the same time some 
Baronial families lost their position on the 
Tribunal, but not their title. 

The identity of the Tribunes, while not exactly 
secret, is not entirely public either ~ the 
Tribunes avoid flaunting their status, and are 
rarely seen in public occasions. Like most 
Ierendi nobles, they prefer to keep their 
privacy well-protected by curtained sedan 
chairs and walled mansions. Sessions of the 
Tribunal are not public either. 

Council of Sages 

The five Sages enact the decisions of the 
Tribunal, thus acting as an administrative (and 
partially an executive) body. Each Sage heads 
a Department (or, more properly, Magistrate) 
- Agriculture, Foreign Affairs, Customs and 
Assessment, Internal Affairs, Military Affairs. 

Proveditors are named to oversee the 
administration of regions (usually one per 
each lesser island, part of the Department of 
Internal Affairs) or specific matters within the 
scope of each Department. Lesser officers of 
each Department are called Subproveditors 
and Deputies. Within the Department of 
Military Affairs, these titles are reserved for 
civilian officers, while military officers are part 



of a different hierarchy, headed by the 
Admiral of the Fleet. 

The Sages are chosen by the Tribunal. They 
may be Tribunes themselves, but this is not 
necessary ~ they may as well be high-ranking 
career civil servants (i.e., former Proveditors). 
They customarily take part in the meetings 
of the Tribunal, but have no voting rights 
unless they hold both the Sage and Tribune 
position. 

Council of Citizens 

The Council of Citizens is formed by the 
heads of the largest merchant and land- 
owning families of Ierendi. About 10% of the 
families living in the city of Ierendi are 
represented on the Council, which has about 
120 members (plus the Tribunes, who are 
also members of the Council of Citizens). 

The Council elects new members of the 
Tribunal, though an actual choice is only 
given when the family of the previous holder 
cannot provide a candidate. The Council of 
Citizens may propose laws, which need to be 
approved by the Tribunal to become effective. 
A favourable vote from the Council of Citizens 
is also needed to modify laws that deal with 
the election of King and Queen, as well as 
the composition of the Tribunal. 

The Council of Citizens is presided by one of 
its members, the Grand Chancellor, who also 
heads the office (Royal Chancery) that acts as 
the archives of the Tribunal and the Council 
of Citizens. 

Members of the Council of Citizens use the 
Honourable style, unless they have a higher 
title (Baron or, more rarely, Kia'i) . The Grand 
Chancellor uses the style Lord, regardless of 
his original rank. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



ieneNfciaN CJovenNMGNt aNO Anistocnacy 




A Note on leueNbi law 

Note that Ierendi law is generally 
convoluted and full of 
contradictions, so the rules given 
in the write-up should be taken as 
guidelines - the write-up 
represents the average case, but 
exceptions and special conditions 
are probably easy enough to find. 
E.g., rules on underage heirs may 
be different for male and female 
heirs, exceptions could exist to the 
general ranking rules for nobles 
due to "ex-officio" ranks, like the 
Grand Chancellor being given a 
higher precedence than most 
nobles. Another similar case is the 
general lack of power of the 
Council of Citizens ~ given the 
power of the Tribunal, it may seem 
that the Council of Citizens has no 
real role. Actually, the Council of 
Citizens holds a myriad of minor 
rights besides appointing new 
Tribune members and the Grand 
Chancellor. For example, there is 
no general rule for the 
appointment of Provisioners - in 
some cases, a Provisioner is simply 
chosen by the Sage heading the 
appropriate department, but in 
other case he may be chosen by the 
Council of Citizens, or even by the 
Tribunal. 



TIY)G leueNbi ARistocuacy 

Hereditary titles 

Ierendian law recognises a single hereditary title, that 
of Baron. The title does not include land per se (Ierendi 
is not a feudal state), but is often associated with a 
position on the Tribunal. A Baron's wife becomes a 
Baroness (and vice versa), and both use the style Lord 
or Lady ~ e.g. Lord Derwin Eddington (or Baron 
Eddington). His heir can use the style of Lord or Lady, 
though he does not have the right to seat on the 
Council (unless the Baron relinquished his own seat 
to him). Younger children of a Baron are styled 
"Honourable". 

In modern times, a Baron who also has a seat on the 
Tribunal also appends "Tribune of Ierendi" to his name, 
and can be addressed as such. E.g., Baron Eddington's 
full style would be Lord Derwin Eddington III, Baron 
Eddington, Tribune of Ierendi. 

Barons who do not hold a Tribune position have few 
benefits out of their rank, although they are recognized 
as equals in the Ierendi aristocratic milieu and enjoy 
the right to be judged directly by the Tribunal if accused 
of a crime ~ a privilege that is rarely exercised, since it 
is seen as bad form to involve the Tribunal in "lesser 
matters". Bribing the Guard is the accepted way to deal 
with any accusation. 

Non-hereditary titles 

King and Queen are the highest non-hereditary titles. 
These titles are temporary, lasting for a term of one 
year unless the current King or Queen manages to 
confirm his position in the annual tournament. Former 
Kings or Queens are entitled to a knightly position (see 
Kia'i). Children and spouses of Kings and Queens are 
styled "Honourable". 

Kia'i (Guardian) is the most common non-hereditary 
title, awarded to famous adventurers. It is not 
permanent ~ the Guardian must keep accepting 
"challenges" for the privilege of retaining his title. The 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



leneNOiaN CJovenNMGNt aNO Anistocnacy 




Kia'i title is used for both men and women 
equally. The style "Sir" or "Dame" is also used 
by Guardians. 

Order of Precedence 

The nobles are ranked formally in the 
following order of precedence: King and 
Queen (equally ranked); Tribune; Baron; 
Guardian. Courtesy titles rank below the actual 
nobility titles, in the following order: Lord; 
Honourable. Note that the Grand Chancellor 
has precedence over all other Lords, while the 
Admiral of the Fleet is sometimes also a Ki'ai, 



but if he is not one, then he ranks 
immediately after the Grand Chancellor. All 
others holding equal ranks are sorted in order 
of seniority in the Tribunal, Council of 
Citizens, or in the Adventurers' Club. 

Visiting heads of states from foreign nations 
are generally ranked immediately below the 
King and Queen, while foreign noblemen are 
considered intermediate in status between 
Tribune and Baron (for landed titles) or 
Baron and Kia'i (for Knightly titles). 



Ierendi noble or honorific title Nearest continental title 

King/Queen King/Queen 
Tribune Duke 
Baron Baron 
Kia'i/Guardian Knight 

Lord Court Lord 

Honorable Court Lord 




The Piazza 

The Premier community 
for discussion of 
W)SLM) Campaign Worlds 

htln://>vnw.thci»ia*xa.org.uk/bl»/iiicleY.PliP 



Vaults of Pandios 



Tlx Official ttustara Homepage 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJoveiiNMeNt aNO Anistocnacy 




A Primgr to HeRalDRy 

The Ierendi heraldry presented here is based on 
real world heraldic language {blazoning). To 
provide a comprehensive description of real world 
heraldry is a task that goes far beyond the scope 
of this article. Nonetheless, we provide a brief 
introduction to help the reader, and provide 
references to more complete treatments of the 
matter. 

Coats of Arms are employed, in Ierendi as in other 
Known World nations, for identification purposes 
- allowing armored warriors to be recognized from 
the drawings on their shields, or ships from their 
flags. To this end, the Coats of Arms need to be 
easy to memorize, to draw and to engrave. The 
shield is the traditional form on which arms are 
depicted, although flags, banners, ovals and other 
forms can be used as well. The simplest arms 
employ a single colour for the background (the 
field), although more complex ones use a 
partitioned background. Figure 1 shows the most 
common types of partitions {divisions) . 

In heraldry, colours are known as tinctures. For 
visibility purposes, light tinctures (called metals) 
are usually put next to darker tinctures (called 
colours). A third category of tinctures is composed 
of conventional patterns used to represent furs. 
Figure 2 shows the most common tinctures. Less 
common tinctures include the stains, which are 
sometimes used in Ierendi Coats of Arms. 

Distinctive items drawn over the field {charges), 
such as animals, objects, or geometric forms serve 
to further distinguish different coats of arms. 
Figure 3 shows the ordinaries, a set of 
conventional geometric patterns which serve as 
charges. The ordinaries can also be used as 
patterns, or variations, on a field - e.g., the paly 
variation represent a vertically striped field. 




party per less party per pale 




party per bend party per bend 
sinister 




party per saltire party per cross 




party per chevron party per pall 



Figure 1: Divisions of the field 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



leneNOiaN CJovenNMGNt aNt) Anistocnacy 




RefeueNces 

Heraldry on Wikipedia , 

"Heraldry Made Easy", 

in Mystara Player's Survival Kit, 

TSR, Feb. 1995 

Bruce Heard, 

Known World Grimoire: Magical Heraldry, 
Dragon Magazine #199 




bend 



Furs 

t*1>S*t Ermine 

Ermines 
***** Erminois 
Pean 
'} Vair 
Cot/nter-vair 
Potent 

Counter-potent 
Figure 2: 

Heraldic tinctures 




EE 

chevron saltire 



chief 



Heraldry 

Coats of arms are issued by the Council of 
Citizens and registered at the Royal Chancery. 
Technically, any family head can request a 
coat of arms, but only the affluent (i.e., those 
who are eligible to join the Council of 
Citizens) do so, due to the associated 
administrative costs. 

Family coats of arms are used by all members 
of a family, each of whom generally adds some 
distinctive element to the basic arms to avoid 
confusion. Bordures 4 and common charges 
(particularly mullets, crescents and roundels 5 ) 
are often used to distinguish members of the 
same family. There is no specific rule, 
however, and each family has its own way to 
manage this issue, with a single, albeit 
important, exception. 

The head of a noble (or rich) family always 
bears the basic arms, with a bordure to 
identify his title (if any). For the King and 
Queen, it is a bordure ermine. For a Baron or 
Tribune, it is a bordure erminois, with two 
exceptions: in the case of the Baron 
Matrongle, the bordure is pean (this exception 
is due to the original status of the Matrongle 
clan as the hereditary royal family of Ierendi), 
while in the case of the Baron Meikros, the 
bordure erminois is replaced by a bordure 
gyronny azure ermined argent and argent 
ermined azure (this exception is due to the 
fact that the Meikros coat of arms includes a 
bordure gyronny in its basic form). 



Figure 3: The most 
common ordinaries 



A bordure is a thick border around the shield, painted in 
a different colour from the field. 

5 A mullet is a (usually five pointed) star, a crescent is a 
rising moon shape, and a roundel is a disc shape. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJovenNMGNt aNO Anistocnacy 





Coat of Arms 

of the Baron 

Meikros, 

showing the 

peculiar 

ermined 

bordure 



Finally, a member of the Council of Citizens 
adds a bordure vair to his or her coat of arms, 
although some exceptions exist for those 
families whose coat of arms already includes 
a bordure. On the other hand, the ermine, 
erminois, pean and vair tinctures are reserved 
for members of the royally, Tribunal and 
Council of Citizens, so they never appear in 
other Ierendi coats of arms. The heraldic stains 
(tenne, sanguine and murrey), which in 
Thyatian and Darokinian heraldry are rarely 
used, except as punishment, are often used in 
Ierendi arms - possibly because many Ierendi 
families descend from traitors and other 
criminals 6 . 

Another reserved element is the goutte 7 , which 
can only be used by a Ki'ai (although not all 
Guardians choose to bear one in their coat of 
arms. The goutte des larmes is the most 
commonly used, except on colour fields, 
where the goutte d'eau is used instead. 
Eccentric Ki'ai also use other gouttes, and 

6 However, note that the Tenne stain is almost only used by 
hin families, possibly as a replacement of the orange tincture 
which is present in the Five Shires arms, but not used in 

Ierendi heraldry. 

7 

A goutte is a stylized drop. A drop of tears (goutte des 
larmes) is painted azure, whereas a drop of water (goutte 
d'eau) is painted argent. The goutte de poix, or drop of tar, is 
painted sable. 



some prefer to change the field from the 
original tincture to a gutty variation. The only 
exception is the goutte de poix, which is used 
traditionally by the Caulker family. 

The arms of 
Baron Derwin 
Eddington, 
Tribune of 
Ierendi, 
showing the 
bordure 
erminois 
signifying his 
tribunal rank. 





The arms of 
Kia '/' Figgen 
Halffellow, 
showing a 
goutty field, 
which 
symbolizes 
the large 

number of participations to the Royal 
Tournament. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJovenNMGNt aNO Anistocnacy 




Kinqs of leueNbi 



Matrongle Dynasty » 






Mad Creeg 


602-637 


Founder of the Kingdom of Ierendi. 


Black Toes & Kerhy Matrongle 


637-663 


Son and daughter-in-law of Mad Creeg. 


Kerhy Matrongle 


663-670 


Kerhy survived her husband. 


Jan Matrongle 


670-684 


Son of Black Toes and Kerhy. 






Died at sea at 46. 


Halia Matrongle 


684-701 


Daughter of Black Toes and Kerhy, 






sister of Jan. 


iviiciiciozzo ivittLruiigic 


/ Ul- / lo 


^ t~\ /~\ 4- Tot - * 
OUII CJ1 J All. 


Donatello The Black Matrongle 


718-735 


Son of Michelozzo. Disappeared at sea. 


The Forty Years Terror b 






Artalus "Art" Rackham 


736-748 


Elected by the Council of Lords. 






Died at sea at 50. 


Thaddeus "Fish-eye" Teach 


748-762 


Elected by the Council of Lords. 


Varaldo "Aldo" Teach 


762-769 


Son of Thaddeus. Died in a fire at 57. 


Willem Van Hoorn 


769-775 


Elected by the Council of Lords. 






Assassinated at 39. 


Elective Kings/Queens <= 






Rena Longkeel 


775-787 


Elected by the Council of Citizen. Abdicated. 


Derwin Eddington 


787-790 


Elected by the Council of Citizen. Deposed. 


Elective Kings & Queens <J 


790-867 




Tournament Kings & Queens 


868-current 





a Inheritance of the throne went through the Matrongle family, initially through seniority rather 
than primogeniture - Halia Matrongle was Jan's sister, for example. Her descendants are the 
current Matrongles, since Jan's line became extinct with Donatello. 

b During this time, the king was selected by the Council of Lords. 

c During this time, the position of King (or Queen) became elective, theoretically through 
popular elections, although candidature were controlled by the Council of Lords. The position 
was for life, although Rena Longkeel abdicated and Derwin Eddington was ousted. 

d During this time, the positions of King and Queen were elective and lasted only one year, 
like in modern times. Candidatures were still very much controlled by the Council of Lords. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



leneNOiaN CJovenNMeNt aNO Anistocnacy 




leueNDi Noble FaMilies 

Most of the noble families of Ierendi are of 
human stock. These people are only in part 
descended from the original founders ~ 
relative newcomers include the Thyatian exiles 
that formed Mad Creeg's entourage and 
descendants of the great captains of the 
pirating days of Ierendi. 

Nobles of Halfling descent can generally trace 
their ancestry to one of the "Four Hin Exiles", 
Durmast Caulker, Tolman Halffellow, Holvar 
Longkeel and Archer Shanwood. 

There were very few Elves (five, according to 
the legends) among the original inmates of 
the Ierendi prison, and most Ierendian with 
elven blood are likely descended from one of 
them, or from visiting elven adventurers. A few 
noble families (the Alvine, Elfinblood, Gentle 
and Halfelven) are considered "half-elven" - 
in each generation, these families produce one 
or two offsprings that favour heavily their elven 
ancestry, and most other members of the 
family have some elven traits (pointed ears, 
delicate facial features, etc.). 

Even though dwarves were present among the 
first prisoners, there is no great or noble 
dwarven family. Actually, very few dwarves are 
found in Ierendi at all, and most of them seem 
to be recent immigrants. What happened to 
the native dwarves is one of the Ierendian 
mysteries - all traces of dwarven families stop 
about two centuries ago. Rumors abound of 
lost dwarven settlements near mount Bina- 
Bura on Ierendi island or in the higher parts 
of Alcove island. Also, Thyatian scholar 
Manuelus Nicholous, in a note to his magnum 
opus, The Senator, hints at the connection 
between the disappearance of the dwarves 
from Ierendi and the contemporary 
persecution of dwarves in Glantri, noting that 




Glantri has often exerted some direct or 
indirect influence on the island kingdom 
since the times of Kerhy Matrongle. 

AlexaNbeu 

Coat of Arms: Perfess 
or and azure, two 
bendlets 
countercharged. 

The Alexander family 
descends from former 
Senator Tiberius 

Alexander, a political opponent of Thyatian 
Emperor Lucius IV Monomachos, imprisoned 
in the penal colony of Ierendi in 596 AC. 
Tiberius had been the leader of a small but 
rich senatorial family from Kerendas, and an 
experienced politician and military man, 
having campaigned as a cavalry officer in the 
Isle of Dawn. With his prospects in Thyatis 
ruined, he fell in with the Hattian pirate, Mad 
Creeg, and was instrumental in organizing 
the Royal Brigade and the Ierendi fleet, 
adapting Thyatian military science to the 
conditions of the archipelago. His 
descendants turned to piracy and smuggling, 
and finally legitimate trade. The current 
Baroness, Kel Alexander, favors Darokin over 
the Shires in foreign policy, reasoning that 
Darokin is more complementary to the 
strengths of Ierendi. 

Dark Secrets: The Alexander family makes 
a tidy profit out of the sale of exotic woods 
used by the elites of Glantri and Darokin for 
furniture and decoration. Unfortunately, their 
methods are very aggressive, and many 
essences risk extinction. The Alexanders do 
not give too much weight to such concerns, 
since rare woods fetch higher prices, making 
trade more efficient. Natives, especially Makai 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJovenNMeNt aNO Anistocnacy 





shamans, are outraged by the lack of concern 
for the vegetation, but the Ierendi government, 
at this time, is more interested in the profits 
and taxes it can draw from such trade. There 
are also tales of a fairy folk, the menehune, 
with whom the shamans would be in league. 

AlviNe 

Coat of Arms: vert, a 
saltire between four 
mullets of seven 
argent. 

The Alvine were 
originally an elven 
family, composed of 
two of the original 
elven prisoners and 

their descendants. They settled in Port Siers, 
and both family leaders died in the eruption 
that destroyed that town. Their descendants 
married into the human families of Ierendi, so 
that nowadays the Alvine are not much more 
elven than the Gentle or the Elfinblood. 
Having lost their plantations in the Port Siers 
catastrophe, the Alvine turned to mercantile 
trade, developing good trade contacts in Port 
Tenobar and Minrothad. They are well 
connected to the Darokinian House Umbarth, 
with whom they also have blood ties. 

The Alvine have, for undisclosed reasons 
(reputed to have much to do with the way the 
clan founders ended up in Ierendi), a long- 
lasting hatred towards the Five Shires, and a 
general mistrust of the hin folk. Thus, 
politically they strongly favor Darokin both as 
a trade partner and a political ally of Ierendi. 
The current Baroness, Mira Alvine, is a tall, 
dark haired woman about thirty years old, with 
elven ears and eyes. Gossipers at the 
Adventurers' Club firmly believe she is looking 



for a mate in the Karibus clan - or perhaps 
the Meikros clan. 

Dark Secrets: the Alvine clan's hatred of the 
Five Shires does indeed originate with their 
elven progenitors, a couple of Darokinian elf 
merchants who had been robbed by hin 
bandits. Rather than admit the robbery, Five 
Shires authorities convicted the merchants 
with claims of vagrancy and loitering, and 
had them shipped to Ierendi. 



Caulkeu 

Coat of Arms: 

quarterly tenne and 
or, on each quarter a 
lymphad sable. 

The Caulker family 
claims to descend from 
Durmast Caulker, one 
of the first exiles, who 
had been abandoned on a raft for unspecified 
crimes. The legend is hard to believe, as all 
four of the first hin exiles were males, but 
what is historically certain is that the Caulkers 
were already settled in Ierendi when the 
Thyatians occupied the archipelago. Rather 
than flee to the mainland, as many other hin 
did, the Caulkers and the Longkeel, another 
ancient clan of halflings, retreated into the 
swamplands, fighting a long guerrilla war 
against the Thyatian legionnaires. 

They would have never dislodged the 
occupiers, had it not been for the large 
number of political prisoners brought to the 
archipelago by the Thyatians. When a 
captured Caulker met Mad Creeg, the deal 
that would free Ierendi from the Thyatian 
occupation was struck. The Caulkers and 
Longkeels coordinated a raid against the 
prison camps with an uprising of the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



ieneNfciaN CJovenNMeNt aNO Anistocnacy 




prisoners, and freed many of them, starting a 
large scale rebellion. 

After the establishment of the Kingdom of 
Ierendi, the Caulkers turned eagerly to piracy, 
to which they commit to this day, under the 
pretence of "privateering". Hal Caulker, a 
relatively young baron, leads the clan with a 
strong hand, and has gathered a reputation of 
recklessness. 

Dark Secrets: the Caulker privateers often 
carry out acts of outright piracy - they prefer 
not to leave any witnesses, of course, unless 
their captains think they can pass off their 
actions as privateering. Trumped up charges, 
and even planting fake evidence through 
corrupt sailors are typical tactics. They also 
operate as fences, which is the source of much 
of their income. 



EDDlNQtON 

Coat of Arms: vert, 
eight bezants in annulo. 



The Eddington family 
has its roots in the 
Eastwind clans of Streel 
Plains of Darokin. In the 

III century BC, the Eastwind chief Eadwine 
son of Eadbald led his clan to victory against 
the ore tribes in the Second Battle of Favaro. 
His descendants founded the village of 
Eadwintune in the northern reaches of 
Eastmark. Two centuries later, Edmun of 
Edington, a captain in Ansel Eastwind's 
campaign against the southern Eastwinds of 
clan Ansimont, earned the title of Earl of 
Edington. By the VI century AC, the 
Eddingtons had the title of Barons, following 
a reorganization of Darokinian noble titles, 
and were vassals to the newly independent 




Duke of Dirnath. Baron Arlin Eddington, 
however, was a partisan of the Sorcerer 
Princess Lowetha of Dirnath, who murdered 
her father, Duke Iolan, plunging Dirnath into 
chaos. By the end of the century, the 
Eddingtons were displaced to southern 
Darokin, and the village of Eddington was an 
abandoned ruin. 

In 688 AC, Derwin Eddington left the 
crumbling Kingdom of Darokin with his 
family and a single ship. He launched into 
sea trade, hoping to exploit the new trade 
routes from Ierendi to Sind. His trade 
ventures were not terribly successful, and his 
heirs turned to piracy and settled in Ierendi. 
One of them, Edward "the Black" Eddington, 
was hanged for piracy in Port Lucinius in 703 
AC, while Arthur "Longtail" Eddington 
crowned a successful, decade-long piratical 
career in the western seas by buying the title 
of Baron from crown of Ierendi in 754 AC. 
The fortunes of the family raised quickly. 
Arthur's son, Edward, was elected to the 
Council of Lords in 765 AC and his grandson 
Derwin was elected King of Ierendi in 787 
AC. However, his reign was brief - the Age of 
the Pirate Kings was over, and the mercantile 
class ousted King Derwin just three years after 
his crowning, and forced the formation of the 
Council of Citizens. 

The Eddington family remained part of the 
Tribunal, however, and is still one of the most 
powerful houses to sponsor privateers. The 
leader, Derwin III, is in his seventies, but still 
hale. Many sons, grandsons and other 
relatives tend to the day to day business, 
which ranges from merchant trade to 
privateering. 

Dark Secrets: One of the Eddington 
offspring left Ierendi for Karameikos after 
falling under suspicion for smuggling 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJoveitNMGNt aNO Anistocnacy 





restricted substances from the Kikianu 
Caldera. He is reported to have fallen in with 
Zila, a lower class sailor and pirate currently 
nursing a broken leg in Specularum. 



ElfiNblooD 

Coat of Arms: argent, 
a basswood vert. 

The Elfinblood family 
descends from Ellantir, 
a Callarii adventurer 
who is often counted 
among the first settlers 
of the islands of 

Ierendi. Certainly, Ellantir had settled on Elegy 
Island when the Thyatians seized the 
archipelago from the hin, and remained there 
for thirty more years, when his human wife 
died. At that time, Ellantir's children were 
already middle-aged, whereas the elf was still 
young. Between the shock of his wife's death, 
and the difficulty of living in a world where 
everyone aged much faster than him, Ellantir 
took advantage of the new influx of ships - 
smugglers and pirates attracted by Mad Creeg's 
new nation - to leave Elegy and the 
archipelago. Nothing more is known of him - 
perhaps he returned to the Radlebb woods, 
although by this time even he would be fairly 
old, or perhaps he died in some boarding 
action on the high seas. 

In any case, his descendants, marked by a 
longer lifespan than the average human and 
by somewhat elfin features on otherwise Makai 
build and complexion, remained on Elegy for 
decades, until Ellantir's granddaughter, Jek, 
joined a hin pirate crew, got rich, and finally 
settled in Ierendi city, establishing first a 
tavern, and later a shipwright business. Her 



descendants constantly expanded the family 
assets, diversifying into trade and buying a 
noble title from the last Matrongle king. The 
current Baron, Keril Elfinblood, shows 
strongly his elven heritage ~ while he is 
reaching his sixth decade, he is still as 
youthful as if he was in his thirties, and is a 
good mage (for Ierendi) as well as a decent 
swordsman. A no-nonsense politician, he 
keeps the family mostly neutral, although he 
generally sides with the New Money and the 
philo-Darokinian factions if he needs to. 

Dark Secrets: The Elfinblood merchants 
derive most of their wealth from smuggling 
magical components between the nations of 
the Known World. Many of these components 
are stolen from the Kikianu Caldera natural 
preserve. 

CJeNtle 

Coat of Arms: 

quarterly vert and 
argent, a cinquefoil 
countercharged. 

This is one clan whose 
history is shrouded in 
myth. Very little is 
known about the 
origins of the family, which does not trace its 
origin to any of the first exiles, yet it is as 
ancient as the Caulkers or the Longkeels. In 
any case, the Gentles carry elven blood, and 
occasionally a child is born with a natural 
affinity for magic, pointed ears, or infravision. 
At the time of the rebellion, the Gentles 
owned (and had operated for since the hins' 
times) a trading post on Ierendi Island, as 
well as a small, independent plantation. While 
they remained neutral in the conflict between 
the rebels and the Empire of Thyatis, they 
managed to acquire large amounts of land in 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJoveiiNMeNt aNt) Anistocnacy 




the first years of Mad Creeg's rule by acting as 
go-betweens towards Five Shires weapon 
dealers, as well as providing advance money 
to cover the construction of the King's fleet. 

Since that time, the family focused entirely on 
the business of running plantations, becoming 
the breadbasket of the City of Ierendi, as well 
as a provider of exotic fruit to several Known 
World markets. Politically, the Gentle Barons 
are generally conservatives, and support a 
closer alliance with the Five Shires, which are 
one of their primary markets. 

Dark Secrets: The few sages in Ierendi have 
at least two theories for the origins of the 
Gentle clan. The first is that they derive from 
an obscure elven clan that lived, centuries ago, 
in the Five Shires region. The second is that 
they do have elven blood, but it is aquarendi. 



QOQUNOV 

Coat of Arms: per pale 
gules and sable, a lion 
rampant argent. 

The Traladaran clan 
Gogunov originated in 
the Duchy of Marilenev, 
where they were a 
trading family closely 

allied with the Dukes. After the Guilds ousted 
the Marilenev family from power, the 
Gogunov, threatened by the aggressive Radu 
clan, moved to Lazkow, a small trading and 
fishing town along the coast south of 
Marilenev, where they thrived for three 
centuries, establishing good trading relations 
with the islands of the Sea of Dread. When the 
Thyatian armies led by Flavian Oesteropoulos 
landed in Marilenev, the Gogunov attempted 
to put up a resistance, but were easily 




defeated. Several family members fled to 
Ierendi, where they had warehouses and 
offices, moving their trading base there. The 
family completely abandoned Traladara after 
the Marilenev Rebellion against the newly- 
installed Duke Stefan Karameikos. By that 
time, the Ierendi branch of the family had 
become one of the richest clans in Ierendi, 
and bought a position at the Tribunal when 
the Vane family was ousted for piracy against 
Ierendi ships. 

In Ierendi, the Gogunov are strongly in favor 
of an alliance with Darokin, both against 
Thyatis and for commercial reasons. They 
have little land in Ierendi, and most of their 
wealth is invested in trade ventures. This, 
combined with their recent joining the 
Tribunal, makes it so that they are not much 
trusted by the landowning clans. 

Dark Secrets: The Gogunov have at least a 
highly placed official at the court of the Grand 
Duke of Karameikos in their pocket. It is also 
rumored that they are preparing to destabilize 
the Karameikan government by sponsoring 
Traladaran insurgents. 



HalfelveN 

Coat of Arms: per 

saltire azure and 
argent, on each an 
anchor 
countercharged. 

The Halfelven family 
is a relative newcomer 
to the Ierendi 
aristocracy. The family 

descends from the popular Queen Haradith 
of the Tall Cedars, who was known as a "half 
elf, being the illegitimate daughter of an 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJovenNMGNt aNt) Anistocnacy 




Erewan elf and an Alphatian lady from Glantri 
City. Thanks to her twelve years as the Queen, 
Haradith amassed not only popular favor, but 
also a large network of contacts, which she 
was able to use to establish a number of 
trading ventures, including the first resorts for 
rich adventurers. She was awarded a baronial 
title after retiring from the royal competition. 
Her descendants continue in the family 
business, and soon bought their way into the 
Tribunal. The current Baron Halfelven is, 
actually, not that elven ~ actually, gossipers 
call him "Halfdwarven", for he is short, fat and 
greedy as a dwarf. Politically, he favors 
progressive policies that increase mercantile 
trade. 

Dark Secrets: The Halfelven merchants have 
invested heavily outside Ierendi, primarily in 
trade ventures in Darokin and Glantri. 
Apparently, this is a diversification strategy that 
would allow them to withdraw from the 
islands in case of Thyatian aggression or other 
political upheavals. 

Halffellow 

Coat of Arms: per 

fess tenne and or, a 
shepherd 
countercharged. 

The Halffellow family 
is one of the oldest 
land-owning clans in 
Ierendi, dating back 
to the times of the 

Hin settlement of the islands. The family claims 
to descend from Tolman Halffellow, one of 
the "four exiles", the first four Hin who were 
exiled to Ierendi. Historically, the clan was 
already established in the interior of Ierendi 
when the Thyatians took over. The Halffellow 
clan leaders supported Mad Creeg's rebellion, 




and further extended their lands in the 
formative years of the Ierendi monarchy. 

Today, the family is still quite large, with 
several members managing farms scattered 
on the main island. The Baron Halffellow is 
a conservative politician who favors the Five 
Shires over Darokin in foreign affairs. Beyond 
the Baron, the most prominent member of 
the family is Ki'ai Figgen Halffellow, a well- 
known adventurer who lives in the city of 
Ierendi. 

Dark Secrets: Kia'i Figgen is a hero of high 
reputation, yet there are aspects of his story 
that idle gossipers and the wise scholar often 
ponder about. Where Strongheart and 
Mercion, who went on to win the tournament 
and become King and Queen of Ierendi were 
deeply affected by the magic of the 
Heartstone, like most of their companions, 
Figgen alone was unaffected. Some ascribe 
this to the hin resistance to magic, some 
believe that his role in the quest was rather 
exaggerated in the tales. Moreover, Figgen is 
also believed to have extensive contacts with 
the Thieves' Guild in Darokin. 



Kauibus 

Coat of Arms: vert a 
baton or. 

The Karibus family 
originated in Thyatis. 
Contrary to many 
other inmates of the 
penal colony in Ierendi 
Island, Eusebes 
Karibus was truly a criminal, of the "white 
collar" kind ~ convicted for numerous 
charges of war profiteering, tax evasion and 
fraud. When Mad Creeg organized his 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJoveitNMGNt aNt) Anistocnacy 




rebellion, Eusebes offered his services ~ he 
knew well most of the corrupt Thyatian 
officials in the colony, and had smuggled into 
the colony a small fortune in gems. When the 
Kingdom of Ierendi was established, Karibus 
went back into business, primarily by re- 
opening the brothels that had served the 
Thyatian troops for the new customers, the 
local and foreign pirates. The business 
perfectly fit Karibus and his descendants, and 
much of the stolen wealth of the pirates ended 
up in their coffers. It is not unsurprising that 
the Karibus were able to enter the Council of 
Lords quite early, during the reign of 
Michelozzo Matrongle. 

Nowadays, the Karibus business is, officially, 
mostly shipping and touristic resorts. In truth, 
the family business has not changed much 
from the times of the Pirate Kings. Politically, 
the Karibus are in favour of opening Ierendi 
to the foreigners, especially if the foreigners 
are rich and willing to part with their wealth. 

Dark Secrets: The Karibus' main business is 
not so secret, but they manage to get a lot of 
extras out of it, in particular by spying on their 
customers, which means the Karibus 
leadership is privy to many secrets of the other 
families. 



LoNqkeel 

Coat of Arms: argent, 
a fess wavy azure 
between 
sable. 



two ships 



The Longkeel family 
descends from one of 
the Four Hin Exiles, but 
only rose to fame 




during the Age of the Pirate Kings. The 
Longkeel were not part of the original 
Council of Lords, but worked their way 
through the ranks through bloodthirstiness 
and courage. Although few Longkeel captains 
remain in Ierendi history, the family 
produced many quartermasters, who were 
generally very popular with the crews. The 
most famous Longkeel remains Queen Rena, 
who was so popular that the Council of Lords, 
forced by the merchants and the lower classes 
to concede elections for the succession to 
King Willem, negotiated her candidature, 
which was highly successful, and stymied the 
protests against the Council's harsh rule for 
a decade. 

Rena, knowing she was not in the position 
to overthrow the Council, chose to side with 
it, bargaining the admission of her family into 
the Council for her abdication, and support 
for an aristocratic candidate, Derwin 
Eddington. The Longkeel have since 
positioned themselves comfortably in the 
Ierendi aristocracy, adopting all their customs 
and mannerisms. Nowadays, the family 
operates several privateer ships, as well as a 
few merchantmen. 

Dark Secrets: It is said the Queen Rena, not 
trusting the Council, had several special 
works done in the Royal Castle. She had 
hin-sized secret passages dug in several 
rooms, allowing her to escape a couple of 
assassination attempts. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



leneNOiaN CJovenNMGNt aNO Anistocnacy 





Mauley 

Coat of Arms: per 

chevron wavy argent 
and vert, a cinquefoil 
sable in chief. 

The Marley clan is one 
of the few Ierendi 
families with roots in 
Minrothad. Cooper 
Marley was one of the rebel chiefs, and one of 
the retired pirate captains that went on to form 
the Council of Lords that advised King Black 
Toes. His descendants were remarkably less 
successful, but managed to cling to power, 
until Geral Marley had a strike of luck ~ a 
recent immigrant from the Guilds, whom Geral 
had hosted out of a whim, turned into a 
successful prophet and founded the People's 
Temple of Ierendi, a major (and lucrative) 
religion. Geral became one of the Temple 
officials, considerably improving the family 
fortunes. 

Nowadays, the Marley still remain in the 
privateering business, although many of them 
are employed either as Temple officials or as 
naval officers. 

Dark Secrets: Like most Ierendi nobles, the 
Marley are aware of the not-so-genuine nature 
of the People's Temple. Most of the Marley 
Temple officials are actually magic users, 
rather than true clerics, educated in the 
academies of Thyatis and Glantri. 




MatRONQle 

Coat of Arms: Azure a 
sea lion argent within 
a bordure ermines. 

The Matrongle family 
descends more or less 
directly from Kerhy 
Matrongle and Black 
Toes, Mad Creeg's son 

and the second King of Ierendi, who took his 
wife's surname. Mad Creeg himself was a 
Hattian and a political opponent of the 
Thyatian emperor of that time, Lucius rv 
Monomachos. He had turned to piracy as a 
way to oppose the emperor, shedding his 
true name and taking the moniker of Mad 
Creeg. Captured by a Thyatian patrol off the 
southern coast of Hattias, he and his surviving 
crew had been deported to Ierendi. After the 
successful rebellion, he had married a local 
woman. Of Kerhy Matrongle little is known, 
except that she hailed from the Flaem 
Highlands and was a reasonably competent 
mage of clearly Flaem ancestry. 

The Matrongle dynasty, in any case, produced 
a number of Pirate Kings, until the 
disappearance of Donatello "The Black" - who 
did not have any legitimate heir - in an 
expedition towards Davania weakened the 
family to the point that the Council of Lords 
ousted them and elected a new Pirate King 
from the Rackham family. The surviving 
Matrongle took years to emerge from a 
bloody feud, jokingly called the "Matrongle 
Succession War" by the other families. In 
time, they regained their position on the 
Council of Lords, but the mercantile and 
naval assets of the family had been 
compromised by Donatello's ill-fated 
expedition, as well as by the internal 
struggles. Nowadays, the Matrongle are a 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJovenNMGNt aNt) Anistocnacy 




primarily landowning family. Due to their 
history, each branch of the Matrongle family 
tends to concentrate control of the family 
possessions into the hands of a single heir. 
The Baronial branch of the family is led by 
Faral Matrongle, a greedy, fat man who deals 
mostly with hin merchants from the Five 
Shires, who buy his plantations' produce 
wholesale. 

Dark Secrets: It is rumored that Kerhy 
Matrongle's arrival in Ierendi was engineered 
by the mages of Honor Island, who wanted to 
preserve their independence as well as 
safeguard the secret of their lore from the 
Collegium Arcanum and the Ministers of Magic 
in Thyatis, as well as the even more feared 
Followers of Air in Alphatia. 
The great mystery surrounding the Matrongle 
family is their original surname: Black Toes 
adopted his wife's surname, and Mad Creeg 
never used his real name, which was not 
known to his captains. Of Mad Creeg's life, 
nothing is known except what he himself told 
to his fellow inmates and later to his captains. 
It is possible that the family has kept some 
knowledge of why Mad Creeg wanted to erase 
his original identity, but if so they have never 
told. The archives of the Thyatian ministries 
might hold some clue, but it would be a long 
and tedious task to find any useful information 
in centuries old documents, assuming one 
could get access to them.. 




Meikuos 

Coat of Arms: or a 

sword sable within a 
bordure gyronny azure 
and argent. 

The Meikros family is 
one of the oldest in 
Ierendi, dating back to 
the Thyatian penal 

colony back in the late VI century. The 
founder, Galerian Meikros, was an 
impoverished noble who had turned to 
smuggling and had been falsely involved in 
a plot against the tyrannical Emperor, Lucius 
IV Monomachos. After serving a 10 year 
sentence on the islands, Galerian was unable 
to return to Thyatis (Lucius' laws exiled minor 
conspirators), and established a small 
plantation in the island of Ierendi and 
married a local woman. 

Galerian 's son was quick to throw his lot with 
the pirate captain, Mad Creeg, in the rebellion 
that led to the formation of the Kingdom of 
Ierendi. Galerian's descendants were 
involved in early piracy, but they mostly took 
advantage of the pirates' lack of agricultural 
skills (and interest) to expand their 
plantation, selling their products high and 
acquiring slaves at very low prices. When the 
state consolidated along more civilized lines 
under Kerhy Matrongle's descendants, the 
Meikros emerged as one of the most powerful 
and rich families, and were inducted in the 
aristocracy with a baronial title. 

Currently, Baron Meikros is one of the most 
senior members of the Tribunal, and a well 
respected one as well. His son, Midges 
Meikros, holds divisional commander 
commission in the Ierendi Royal Brigade, the 
elite ground force of the Kingdom. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJoveiiNMeNt aNO Anistocnacy 




Dark Secrets: The Meikros clan leaders are 
not noted for being equal opportunities 
employers - their native laborers are heavily 
discriminated by the hin or continental 
foremen, especially in remote farms where the 
Guard and the public opinion do not reach. 
Makai who protest such treatment tend to 
disappear without leaving traces. 



RackliaM 

Coat of Arms: sable, 
two crossed scimitars 
argent. 

This family holds the 
distinction of having 
provided the first king 
of Ierendi outside the 
Matrongle clan. The 
founder, Cormac 

Rackham, was a Darokinian exile who had 
taken to piracy in the VIII century. His son, 
Artalus Rackham, was the hero of the Battle of 
Jaibul, where the Sindhi navy was destroyed 
by a pirate fleet secretly funded by Ierendi and 
Minrothad. When Donatello Matrongle was 
lost at sea in 735 AC, the Council of Lords 
overrode the Matrongle claimants - all of them 
only distantly related to Donatello - and 
named the popular "Art" king. Art Rackham 
not only openly sanctioned piracy against 
foreign merchant navies, but contracted the 
fleet and the Royal Brigades as mercenary 
units. He did bring a time of prosperity and 
change to Ierendi, leading to the exploration 
and settlement of several of the lesser islands. 
However, in 748 AC, he died at sea, after an 
unforeseen storm took his fleet. Rumors 
abound that his death was engineered by the 
Sea People, who did not like the aggressive 
policy of exploration and exploitation of 



marine resources that King Art had been 
pushing for. Indeed, the Council of Lords 
quickly selected a new king from the Teach 
family, which was well known to have close 
deals with the merrow, ending the reign of 
the Rackham kings. 

The Rackham family remains one of the more 
aggressive group of privateers. They also 
sponsor several marinas, owned by Hanni, a 
cousin of the current Baron Rackham. 

Dark Secrets: The Rackham also head a 
major gang of thieves in the city of Ierendi. 
Hanni provides them spaces under her 
marinas. 



Roqeus 

Coat of Arms: gules 
a bend argent 
between two moor's 
heads. 



The Rogers family is 
the newest entrant in 
the Tribunal, having 
joined it when the 
Council of Lords changed its name in 980. 
The accession of the Rogers was a political 
move to give the impression of real change, 
as the Rogers were recent immigrants from 
Darokin. However, little real change 
happened, as the newcomers had well- 
established trade relations with several of the 
Lords, and were even related by marriage to 
the Eddington and Van Hoorn families. The 
Rogers had left Darokin mostly to escape 
taxation, and employed much of the saved 
wealth in campaigning for their leader's 
"election" to the Tribunal. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJovenNMGNt aNO Anistocnacy 




Nowadays, the Rogers are mostly aligned with 
other mercantile families, and are a force for 
modernization in Ierendi, having brought 
several best practices over from their 
homeland. 

Dark Secrets: The Rogers have always been 
involved in the slave trade - barely masked 
under "outsourced labor to indentured 
servants" in Darokin, but even straightforward 
slave trade in Jaibul and, more recently, in Fort 
Doom. They have ties to the Iron Ring, and 
they employ Hounds of the Iron Ring as 
mercenaries. 



Seilus 

Coat of Arms: argent 
two bars azure between 
three lions passant 
sable. 

The Seilus family arrived 
in Ierendi during the 
Pirate Kings era. With a 
piratical tradition of its 

own, the first Seilus were forced to flee from 
Thyatis after a "misunderstanding" with the 
Shadow Hand, the powerful Thyatian thieves' 
guild. At first dabbling in piracy and smuggling, 
the Seilus went legitimate at the end of the 
Pirate King era, establishing strong ties with 
the Achelos trade firms. Nowadays, they are 
one of the richest merchant families, as well 
as one of the most politically savvy. Baron 
Seilus, a long-bearded, elderly statesman, is 
the current Chancellor of the Tribunal, and 
therefore the holder of the executive power 
in Ierendi. 

Dark Secrets: When he was much younger, 
the current Baron Seilus was an adventurer. 
Once he and his party woke a red dragon, who 




proved too strong for them 8 . Seilus, the only 
survivor, was about to be eaten, when he had 
a strike of genius and bargained his life for 
an interesting secret. Unfortunately, the only 
secret of interest to the dragon he had was 
the fact that Ierendi 's Kikianu Caldera holds 
a plant that is reputed to act as a stabilizer 
for a dragon's sleep, and that the title of King 
of Ierendi can be achieved via the Royal 
Tournament. . . 



SeleuKiDes 

Coat of Arms: per fess 
gules and argent, an 
elephant sable. 

The Seleukides family 
is of Kerendan origins, 
although it is first 
attested in the Thyatian 
province of 
Dythestenia, nowadays a part of the Emirates 
of Ylaruam. A branch of the family purchased 
lands in the archipelago from the Thyatian 
government shortly after the occupation, and 
established a set of plantations. While most 
plantation owners were forced to leave 
during the rebellion, the Seleukides family 
did not make use of prisoners as indentured 
servants, and thus was not a primary target 
for the rebels. The family leaders of the time 
negotiated with Mad Creeg, offering much 
needed supplies in return for safely. Once 
the Kingdom of Ierendi was established, the 
Seleukides kept a low profile, so they joined 
the Council of Lords only later, after the end 
of the Age of the Pirate Kings. 



This is Respen ak Tarpis, introduced in the Gazetteer. 
An alternate view of Respen and his homeland can be 
found in Giulio Caroletti's article, "Arentela". 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJovenNMGNt aNO Anistocnacy 




The current Baroness, Apama Seleukides, is a 
middle aged woman who controls vast 
plantations. She is very prudent and 
conservative as a politician, favoring the more 
reliable Darokinians over the flamboyant hin 
of the Five Shires. Like most of her ancestors, 
she favors an unofficial policy of division 
between the Ierendians of continental origins 
and the various native tribes. 

Dark Secrets: The Seleukides are very 
conservative, to the point that they intermarry 
with few, very high placed families, such as the 
Karibus and the Meikros. This has led to a 
degree of inbreeding, resulting in a number 
of mentally imbalanced or otherwise "weird" 
offspring. 



StjaNWOOb 

Coat of Arms: argent 
two ships tenne and 
on a chief sanguine 
three barrels or. 

Archer Shanwood, the 
founder of the 
Shanwood Hin clan, 
was one of the First 
Prisoners, the Hins exiled to the Ierendi 
archipelago. Contrary to the other famous Hin 
families, though, the clan did not rise to 
prominence early on, as many of its members 
returned to the Five Shires during or after the 
Thyatian occupation. 

During the Age of the Pirate Kings, though, 
the Shanwoods, who had become successful 
pirates operating out of Rundegos, came back 
to Ierendi, which was a market to their stolen 
goods as well as an occasional port of call 
when the Five Shires ports were watched by 
the Imperial Navy. 




"Pegleg" Thob Shanwood was perhaps the 
most successful of the Five Shire Shanwood 
pirates, and although his treasure was lost 
with his death at sea, the clan thrived both 
on the mainland and in the archipelago. 

The current Shanwoods are still in the 
privateering business, and although on the 
Ierendi side their activities are significantly 
more within the boundaries of the law than 
on the Five Shires side, they are still 
considered pirates at heart. Baroness 
Shanwood, a tough old Hin lady, is 
considered the strongest ally of the Five 
Shires in Ierendi, which makes her a target 
for the attacks of many human Tribunes. 

Dark Secrets: The Ierendi and Five Shires 
Shanwoods have a permanent arrangement 
- when a member of either family comes 
under the scrutiny of the law in his home 
country, the other branch of the family takes 
him or her in, allowing both families a great 
deal of room in their illegal activities. 



Coat of Arms: per 

quarter, 1 and 4 
argent a dolphin 
sable, 2 and 3 sable a 
ship argent. 

The Teach family used 
to dominate the 
Council of Lords 

during the later age of the Pirate Kings, after 
the death of Donatello Matrongle led to the 
"Matrongle Succession War" and the ousting 
of the royal family. 

The family had been active in Ierendi since 
the founder, Marlon Teach, a Minrothaddan 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ieneNOiaN CJoveiiNMeNt aNt) Anistocnacy 




sailor, had been quartermaster on Claes Van 
Hoorn's flagship, the Red Lightning, and his 
son had been inducted into the Council of 
Lords under the reign of Jan Matrongle. After 
the death at sea of Artalus Rackham, Thaddeus 
"Fish-eye" Teach, who was the leader of the 
faction within the Council opposed to 
Rackham, was named king. The circumstances 
of this election, and why neither Artalus 's 
daughter, Yolanda, nor any of his three 
nephews inherited the throne, are not entirely 
clear, as the Royal Chancery seems to be 
missing the records of that year. In any case, 
it amounted to little less than a coup d'etat, 
and the Rackham and Teach families, while 
sharing similar interests, are not on the best 
of terms. Besides Thaddeus, another Teach, 
Thaddeus' son Varaldo, ruled as King of 
Ierendi. The family fortunes grew considerably 
during that time, and have not faltered since 
that time, even though Varaldo and both of 
his sons died in an accidental fire that 
destroyed the original royal castle. 

Nowadays, the Teach family provides the 
largest amount of privateer ships to the fleet, 
and owns also several large tuna fisheries. 

Dark Secrets: Marlon's son, Barnabas 
"Barney" Teach, is rumored to have had weird 
deals with the merrows, and that his offspring 
were actually half-merrows. What is certain is 
that King Thaddeus negotiated an alliance with 
Undersea shortly after the death of Artalus 
Rackham, and that he was called "Fish-eye" for 
his weird, unblinking stare. As to the storm 
that killed Artalus, it has been long rumored 
that Thaddeus was involved, either through 
his Undersea alliances, or through some 
Minrothaddan sea magic - his Minrothaddan 
ancestor, Marlon, had had a reputation as a 
witch doctor in his time. 




VaN Hoorn 

Coat of Arms: sable a 
unicorn gules armed, 
unguled and crined or. 

The Van Hoorn family 
descends from one of 
the leaders of the anti- 
Thyatian insurrection, 
Claes Van Hoorn, a 

Flaem heretic who had joined a Hin pirate 
crew and had been captured by the Thyatian 
fleet. While the early Van Hoorn were blood- 
thirsty pirates, including the only Van Hoorn 
king, Willem, the current leadership of the 
family thrives on mostly legitimate trade. The 
Van Hoorns are shipping magnates, their 
roundships moving huge amount of cargo to 
and from Athenos, Tenobar, Jahore, 
Specularum and Minrothad. 

Dark Secrets: While a Flaem, Claes Van 
Hoorn never liked Kehry Matrongle nor her 
influence on young Black Toes. A prudent 
man who had survived many adversities, 
Claes did not openly attack Kehry, but 
worked to collect evidence against her. It is 
said that some of this information may still 
be found in the Claes' old journal, which is 
hidden somewhere in the saferooms of the 
family mansion in Ierendi City. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



leneNOiaN CJovenNMeNt aNt) Anistocnacy 




FactioNS 

Ierendi politics revolves around shifting 
allegiances between the families that sit on the 
Tribunal. There are generally two parties (a 
dominant one and an opposition), but when 
the current dominant faction suffers a major 
defeat, the new ruling party generally breaks 
into two different groups, the weaker of which 
usually tries to get support from the defeated 
families. Factions usually form along economic 
or political interests, but there is also a strong 
divide between the Old Aristocracy - families 
who claim to descend from the first settlers 
and the leaders of the rebellion that led to the 
foundation of the Kingdom ~ and the "New 
Money" families, merchants and privateers 
who immigrated more recently. In terms of 
economic policy, Landowners are generally at 
odds with Seafarers, both merchants and 



privateers. However, in foreign policy the 
issue is usually between a philo-Darokinian 
faction (mostly merchants who wish to 
improve trade relations with the rest of the 
Known World) and a philo-Hin faction 
(mostly composed by privateers who favor a 
strong alliance with the Five Shires against 
Thyatis and, to a lesser extent, Minrothad). 
The other two alliances - with Honor Island 
and with Undersea - are never seriously 
challenged, as they are the basis of Ierendi 
independence from the mainland powers. 

Which criterion is used at any given time 
depends on the primary political issues that 
are discussed at the time, as well as economic 
and foreign policy factors. Table 1 classifies 
the current Tribunes along the three main 
criteria. 



Table 1: Political factions in the Tribunal of Ierendi 





Old Aristocracy 


New money 


Landowners: 

(pro-Darokin) 


Meikros, Seleukides, Karibus 




(pro-Shires) 


Gentle, Halffellow, Matrongle 




Merchants: 

(pro-Darokin) 


Alexander, Alvine, Van Hoorn 


Eddington, Elfinblood, Gogunov, 
Halfelven, Rogers, Seilus 


Privateers : 

(pro-Shires) 


Caulker, Longkeel, Marley 


Shanwood, Rackham, Teach 



RefeitCNces 

Anne Gray McCready, Kingdom of Ierendi 
(Gazetteer 4), TSR 9215, 1987 

John W. Biles, Alternate Ierendi Gazetteer: The 
Pirate Kingdom 

Andrew Theisen, Timeline of the Sea of Dread, 
Threshold Magazine Issue 3 



James Mishler, The Thanegioth Archipelago 

James Ruhland and Giulio Caroletti, Timeline 
of Thyatian History: The Middle Centuries , 
Tome of Mystara, vol. 3 

Giulio Caroletti, Arentela 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G MiNon islaNOs of tlie Sea of DneaO 





FROM 

'CHE VAUIXS 
OF PANDIUS 



The Sea of Dread is the wide expanse of water 
found south of the Known World. It is 
surrounded by the Known World and the 
southern coast of the Great Waste to the north, 
and by the Serpent Peninsula to the west, but 
geographers and navigators don't agree on 
which its other limits are. In its larger 
definition, the Sea of Dread stretches up to 
the northern coast of Davania and the island 
of Ochalea to the south, and up to the western 
coast of the Isle of Dawn to the east, ending 
on the ideal line connecting Cape Gabrionius 
(Province of Septentriona, on the Isle of Dawn) 
to the town of Dawnpoint (Tel Akbir 
Peninsula, Thyatis), giving way to the Western 
Sea of Dawn to the north. In its smaller 
definition, the Sea of Dread is limited to the 
south by the Western and Eastern Thanegioth 
Archipelagos - giving way south of them to the 
Davanian Shallows - and to the east by a line 
connecting the Verdant Isles, the Burning 
Mountain, and the easternmost island of the 
Eastern Thanegioth Archipelago - east of 
which the Western Sea of Dawn begins. 

According to the legends, the inauspicious 
name of this sea was given to it by the Thyatian, 
Kerendan, and Hattian peoples who migrated 
to the Known World in BC 600. Their 
migration turned to be a dreadful passage 
through waters as stormy as they never 
remembered to have seen; many of their 
numbers died, but when Protius' wrath was 
appeased, they reached the northern land, 
thanking the Immortals and assigning the 
enemy sea the name it deserved. While this is 



The Minor Isfoeds 
of the Sea of Dread 

by Simone Neri (Zendrolion) 

the most commonly accepted origin of the 
Sea of Dread's name, fact is that the elves of 
Alfeisle, in Minrothad, tell that their ancestors 
began calling it "Sea of Dread" in their 
language much before the Thyatians arrived 
in the Known World, during the age of 
seismic upheavals before BC 1700 which 
ravaged and changed the whole southern 
coast of the mainland (even if some theories 
give the name a more sinister origin - take a 
look to Darkness Beneath, by F. Defferrari, 
in this issue of Threshold, to know more) . 

Whatever the origins of its name, the Sea of 
Dread is filled with a vast number of large, 
small, and tiny islands. The educated 
common man only knows the largest or more 
important islands and archipelagos - the 
Ierendi and Minrothad chains, the great 
island of Hattias and the Thyatian islands east 
of its, the faraway and savage Thanegioth 
Archipelago. Only a few people, apart from 
most experienced seamen, will be able to 
name even one of the minor islands, but 
neither they could keep count of all the lonely 
atolls, keys, and islets scattered through the 
sea. 

Well, if you are not an ever-travelling seawolf, 
and more akin to watch the sea through the 
window of your home, or through the pages 
of a book, then follow us and we will bring 
you in a short tour of the smaller islands of 
the Sea of Dread. 

Unfurl the topsails! 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Minor islaNOs of tfte Sea of Dneat) 




Duead, ColONy, 
or Wliat? 

The Minrothad island chain, made 
up by seven islands (Trader's Isle 
and Alfeisle, the largest; then Open 
Isle, and Fortress, Blackrock, 
North, and Fire islands) - eight if 
you add Terentias, under Thyatian 
control - have been called with a 
variety of names during their 
history. The archipelago's first 
name was given to it by the Meditor 
and Verdier elves, who called it 
Isles of Dread due to the decades 
of seismic and volcanic instability 
which had sunk into the water most 
of the lands where they lived, 
leaving only Alfeisle, around BC 
1750. Obviously, these Isles of 
Dread have nothing in common 
with the Isle of Dread which is 
found in the Eastern Thanegioth 
Archipelago. 

Later (BC 1100), they were the 
Nithians which gave the 
archipelago the name with which 
sometimes it is still called today, 
that is Colony Islands. After the 
formation of the Minrothad Guilds 
(AC 691), the chain is usually called 
Minrothad islands or archipelago, 
but "Colony Islands" is 
geographically more correct when 
one intends to refer to the whole 
island chain, Terentias included. 



A TOUR OF 

THE SEA OF DREAD 

This article will shortly describe a number of minor 
islands which dot the Sea of Dread - basically the 
ones included between the Ierendi and Minrothad 
chains and the Eastern Thanegioth Archipelago - 
leaving out the larger and already known ones. 
Among them one archipelago, that of the Verdant 
Isles, is usually recognized. The others are treated 
individually. 1 

VeuDaNt Isles 

The archipelago of tiny islands known as the Verdant 
Isles owes its name to the lush vegetation and jungles 
which cover the greater part of these five islands - 
East Key, Magedoom Isle, Green Reavers' Island, Sea 
Demon's Fang, and Zephyr's Curse. Despite their 
plentiful resources, the archipelago's islands are very 
dangerous places for a number of reasons. 

The first is represented by the dreaded "ship-bane", 
a vicious mist which ravages ships passing nearby 
these islands (actually the mist is generated by baleful 
creatures of the Elemental Plane of Air, called 
"kal-murus" by the kara-kara). 

The second is the fact that the islands are inhabited 
by a race of aggressive, green-skinned, ore-like 
humanoids, called "kara-kara". The kara-kara have 
their own unique culture, centered on the worship 
of a "pig-god" (likely Orcus), rule by "manwu-papas" 
(witch-doctors), and sailing on large canoes. They 
survive through hunting, fishing, and raiding of small 
ships and nearby nations' coasts, which they perform 

1 On the accompanying map, several islands' names come from 
canon sources (GAZ4, GAZ8, GAZ9, GAZ14, DotE, PC3, TM1, 
TM2, XI, X8, XSOLO). Some names were borrowed from fan works 
(in particular those of F. Defferrari, A. Francolini, and G. Gander), 
while names for some of the islets surrounding the Isle of Dread were 
borrowed from the Savage Tide adventure path (found in Paizo's 
"Dungeon Magazine" nos. from 139 to 150). All others were created 
by the author. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie MiNon islaNOs of tlie Sea of Dneafc 




swiftly, retreating in their islands afterwards. 
Sometimes their canoes are encountered at 
sea, even at some distance from the Verdant 
Isles. 

Despite their fierceness and the fact that the 
Verdant Isles are accessible only with difficulty, 
the kara-kara have been occasionally known 
to trade with merchants landing in their 
archipelago, being more than happy to put 
their hands of foreign metal weapons and tools. 

East Key 

This subtropical island is plain and partially 
covered by vegetation and jungle, with 
abundant freshwater. It is inhabited by only a 
few tribes of kara-kara, who came from the 
Green Reapers' Island, to the northeast. 
Moreover, the "ship-bane" is rarely found 
there. The island's plentiful resources make it 
an advantageous stop for ships braving the Sea 



of Dread, good enough even to risk attacks 
by the kara-kara natives. Source: XSOLO 
Lathan's Gold. 

Green Reapers' Island (Teki-nura-ria) 

This small, jungle-covered island ages ago 
hosted some sort of ancient and advanced 
civilization, as ruins and archeological 
remains testify. Nothing is left of the ancient 
dwellers of this place, as since a long time 
the island is the home of the kara-kara, whose 
presence here is greater than in nearby 
islands. The kara-kara call this island "Teki- 
nura-ria", which means "mountain of death" 
in their tongue. Besides the aggressive kara- 
kara, the island is made dangerous by the 
stormy waters around it, and by the ever 
present "ship-bane" mist. Source: X8 Drums 
of Fire Mountain. 





"Ci7e MiNon islaNOs of tfte Sea of Dneat) 




Magedoom Isle, Sea Demon's Fang, and 
Zephyr's Curse 

These three tiny islands complete the Verdant Isle 
archipelago. They are all covered in thick jungle, 
inhabited by tribes of kara-kara, and infested by the 
"ship-bane" mist, just like the Green Reapers' Island. 
Magedoom is known among wizards because the 
island harbor a vast number of plant species useful 
for alchemical and arcane procedures; wizards from 
Sclaras and elsewhere occasionally foray there - 
unfortunately, not all of them came back alive from 
those tours in the kara-kara territory. Sea Demon's 
Fang and Zephyr's Curse are more like the tops of 
two submerged mountains; the former has a rocky 
peak at its center, while the latter's top is rounder, 
but the coasts of both are rugged and filled with creeks 
and shallow reefs. Sources: X8 Drums on Fire 
Mountain (featured on general area map; the islands' 
names were created by the author). 

Otlieu ScatteueD, LoNely Isles 

This group included all other islands of the Sea of 
Dread which do not form archipelagos or island 
chains. Some of these islands are indeed uninhabited, 
some other are simply the barren top of underwater 
mountains and volcanoes; some other, instead, are 
large and pleasant enough to have become the home 
- already in ancient times - of Makai and Tanagoro 
tribesmen, coming from the Davanian coast or from 
the Serpent Peninsula. Where still present today, these 
natives continue to lead a simple lifestyle based on 
fishing and gathering. 

Aleea Keys 

This series of five small islands is found south of a vast 
and dangerous area of shallow reefs known as the 
Aleea Reefs, which only the few Makai natives living 
in the keys know how to navigate. The islands, from 
northwest to southeast, are known by their Makai 
names as Miwoa, Natula, Tiruka, Lawana, and Okea. 
The islands offer few in terms of resources, but the 
area around them is quite good for fishing, especially 



'Clie islaND of MauDius 
aNb ^liyRalax 

The adventure Thyralax and the 
Ruby Amulet, included in AC 10 
Bestiary of Dragons and Giants, 
describes a savage volcanic area of 
swamps and hills, bordered by high 
stone mountains to the north, 
which is found «about 20 miles 
north of the nearest civilized area». 
This area is the domain of the ruby 
dragon Thyralax, while to the north 
dwells the old nemesis of him, the 
brown dragon Mardius; the two 
dragons have a long-lasting feud 
which results in constant struggle. 
The domain of Thyralax, which is 
the area detailed in the adventure, 
is about the size of a single 8-miles 
hex. Besides its draconic master, 
the land hosts gatormen and 
koprus. 

The presence of the koprus would 
make it ideal to set the adventure 
on one of the islands of the Eastern 
Thanegioth Archipelago. The 
adventure needs an area with a 
north-south extension of about one 
and a half 24-miles hexes, so the 
most suitable islands of the 
archipelago seem to be large island 
to the west of the Isle of Dread 
(Karawa Island), or even better the 
second slightly smaller one found 
to the east of it (Nogoro Island). 
The "nearest civilized area" could 
be a trading post or colony 
belonging to one of the Known 
World's sea powers, or even a 
native village (like the ones found 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CI7G MiNon islaNOs of ttje Sea of Dneat) 




in the Isle of Dread's southeastern 
peninsula). 

The presence of gatormen (who 
are the same humanoids as the 
Gurrash of the western Savage 
Coast), might seem problematic, as 
according to the Voyage of the 
Princess Ark series, they were 
created by Herathian wizards some 
centuries ago. However, we should 
consider that a race of crocodile- 
men already existed during 
Blackmoor's times, as proved by 
their first appearance in module 
DA4 The Duchy of Ten; even then, 
their existence was due to an «evil 
wizard's experiment*, after which 
their «numbers grew dramatically*. 
In the thousand years intervened 
between the setting of DA4 (BC 
4000) and the Great Rain of Fire 
(BC 3000), almost everything may 
have happened to explain the 
gatormen 's presence in the 
Thanegioth area. Nevertheless, it 
seems that the Herathian wizards 
rediscovered some ancient 
Thonian ritual to create the 
gatormen. Today, these and other 
sparse groups of gatormen (besides 
those of the Bayou) would be the 
last remnants of the Thonian 
experiments. In turn, all these 
magical experiments aimed at the 
creation of reptilian races could 
likely be the result of rediscovered 
lore from the Carnifex, an 
advanced reptilian race which 
dominated the Outer World several 
thousands of years ago. 



mollusks dwelling in the shallows. Source: PC3 The 
Sea People (featured on the poster map; the islands' 
names were invented by the author). 

Calitha's Tears 

A couple of islands which owe their name to an elven 
legend in which the Immortal Calitha mourns one of 
her beloved mortal champions, shedding tears which 
come up from the sea bed and formed these islands 
when they arrived in contact with the air of the 
surface. Be it for Calitha's blessing or not, the two 
islets are noted for the beautiful and unusual fields 
of white, yellow, and pink-colored flowers which 
grow on them. Enterprising elven lovers sometimes 
bring their would-be spouses there to utter their love 
declarations. Touristic guides from Ierendi have been 
known to organize visits on this island. Source: PC3 
The Sea People (featured on the poster map; the 
island's name was invented by the author). 

Burning Mountain 

The main feature of this island is a tall volcanic 
mountain found in its middle, which releases 
poisonous gases. Because of the toxic substances 
which come out from the volcanic openings, the 
island's uplands are barren - nothing grows here. 
The surrounding area, instead, is covered by lush 
tropical vegetation and is inhabited by Makai tribes. 
Navigation in the vicinities of the island is made 
dangerous by the sudden changes in wind direction, 
which may move in an unpredictable way the vapors 
coming out of the volcano. Occasionally, the lava 
flows expelled by the volcano carry large quantities 
of melted gold, which then solidifies into large lumps 
- a phenomenon that has fed the legends about the 
"gold mountain". Source: XSOLO Lathan's Gold. 

Clesius' Reef 

A rocky and barren island which was discovered when 
a Thyatian seaman, Rutilius Clesius, was found 
near-mad and starving there, two years after the Battle 
of Midpoint (AC 713) in which the Ierendian navy 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G MiNon isiaNbs of the Sea of Dneat) 




ZY)G FloatiNQ islaNDs of 
ttje LizaubMGN 

The existance of these islands is 
known only thanks to occasional 
alleged sightings, and maybe only 
the product of misinterpretations, 
blunders, or simple rumors. 
Nevertheless it is worth 
mentioning, becouse such 
sightings have become a relevant 
number. Reference to these islands 
can be found in GAZ4 The 
Kingdom of Ierendi and in 
Joshuan's Almanac & Book of Facts. 

These are strange islands - little 
more than massive, bare rock 
fragments - which float a little 
above the water's surface, and 
move above sea level through 
unknown means. They seem to 
appear from time to time near 
some of the coastal lands 
surrounding the Sea of Dread. The 
islands, which in many tales are 
described harboring alien 
buildings, are inhabited by warlike 
groups of lizardmen, who use them 
to move across the sea to attack and 
plunder isolated and undefended 
settlements. Even if the lizardmen's 
number is not so high (rumors say 
some hundred warriors), they are 
well equipped, both in the ways of 
war and magic. 

Some speculate that the islands are 
ancient artifacts of the lizardmen 
whose origins can be traced back 
to the prehistoric age; according to 
this theory the lizardmen would 
still use them as transportation and 



destroyed a Thyatian fleet. Clesius was missing since 
the battle and believed dead at sea; no one figured 
out how he could have survived two years alone on 
this island. Back in Thyatis, he lived another three 
years in a religious hospice before dying. Source: PC3 
The Sea People (featured on the poster map; the 
island's name was invented by the author). 

Good Omen Isle 

According to the legend, this small island (and the 
two tiny reefs northeast of it) was the first land sighted 
by the Thyatian, Kerendan, and Hattian ships which 
had taken the long journey through the Sea of Dread 
to migrate from Davania to the Known World. 
Thyatians landed on the island and sacrificed to the 
Immortals, thanking them for their benevolence. The 
island is plain and pleasant, covered in vegetation 
and small copses. Thyatian faithful occasionally make 
pilgrimages there, and Thyatian priests have built a 
small altar and statue to honor the Immortals in the 
location of the coast in which it is believed that the 
Thyatians first landed. Source: PC3 The Sea People 
(featured on the poster map; the island's name was 
invented by the author). 

Insect Island 

A subtropical island covered in forests and vegetation, 
with few Makai natives. The islands has plenty of 
water and food, and would be a great stop for ships 
- if it was not for the fact that hundreds of species of 
insects (especially beetles) and worms haunt it. The 
Makai natives even use some of these vermins as food, 
but sometimes they have problems with them. It is 
likely that any type of supply brought on board of a 
ship from the island's interior is filled with the eggs 
and tiny larvae of the vermins which infest it; if this 
is the case, the food and water will be spoiled soon, 
once the eggs hatch. Source: XSOLO Lathan's Gold. 

Maiden, The 

A plain island inhabited by a scattering of Makai 
natives, owes its name to an ancient legend of a 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CI7G MiNon isiaNbs of tfte Sea of Dneat) 




communication means between 
their communities scattered from 
the Ierendi Islands to the 
Thanegioth Archipelago across the 
Sea of Dread, and maybe even 
beyond. 



Traldadaran princess who had been left here awaiting 
the return of her hero, which however died tragically 
and never came back to her. The legend says that the 
princess' ghost still haunts the beach, longing for the 
return of her beloved one. Of course, the local Makai 
have never seen such a spirit. Source: PC3 The Sea 
People (featured on the poster map; the island's 
name was invented by the author) . 




Burying treasure on Pirate's Rock 



No Name Island 

This flat island is little more than a large cay, with 
some water but where very few edible plants grow. 
Much time ago this island was recorded as being 
inhabited by Makai natives, but today it is 
uninhabited, and while in the past it was occasionally 
used as a haven by pirates, today it is not anymore. 
It is unknown to the Known World folk that this island 
is actually a shark-kin sacred ground; they call it the 
"Island of Dried Skins" and are the reason for which 
even the pirates keep at bay from it. Source: XSOLO 
Lathan's Gold (the island featured in the adventure 
has been identified with the "Island of Dried Skins" 
from PC3 The Sea People, whose location was not 
indicated in the module) . 

Pirate Rock 

This inhospitable island has very few resources and 
offers nothing in terms of supplies; no one has really 
a reason to dock here - and this is why a lot of pirate 
crews used to bury their loot and treasures in this 
island. In old times, the island was inhabited by 
Tanagoro natives, most of whom have been carried 
away as slaves during the course of the centuries; 
only a very few of them remain. Even pirates do not 
seem to be a stable presence in this area anymore - 
at least, this is what most Known World folks believe 
- in truth, the island is a quite alive spot of the Sea 
of Dread, inhabited by some ancient cultures and 
races, still a major pirate hideout, and within the 
reach of the powerful Twaelar Kingdom from the 
southern waters. It is worth noting that due to past 
and present pirate activity on the island, various 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G MiNon isiaNbs of tfte Sea of Dneat) 




chests filled with gold still await to be digged out of 
the earth, their owners executed by the law of the 
civilized countries or gone missing after sea storms. 
Source: XSOLO Lathan's Gold. [A much deeper insight 
about Pirate Rock will be included in the Three 
Star/lowers adventure by F. Defferrari, which you will 
find in the upcoming issue #4 of Threshold.] 

Roc's Island 

This tiny island (and the smaller just north of it) is just 
a barren crag protruding out of the sea, rocky and 
barren, with only sparse vegetation and often 
surrounded by mists. The larger islands is actually the 
cone of a dormant volcano. Rocs are known to nest 
on these islands. Source: PC3 The Sea People, and X10 
Red Arrow, Black Shield (the island is featured on PC3 
poster map, and has been identified with the island of 
the same name mentioned, but not given a position, 
in X10). 

Sea Nuggets, The 

Both of these islands have a shape which remembers 
a couple of jagged lumps, with many crags, reefs, and 
cliffs. The top and center of the islands are covered in 
low vegetation. The name of these islands come from 
the traces of gold veins exposed by water erosion on 
the islands' cliffs. However, before claiming the islands 
to mine them, the Ierendian and Minrothaddan 
governments - both of which covet the Nuggets - have 
still to figure out how to dispose of the greater sea 
serpents which dwell in the islands' underwater caves. 
Source: PC3 The Sea People (featured on the poster 
map; the island's name was invented by the author). 

Skeleton Key 

This island is found just west of a long coral reef 
running in northwest-southeast direction from this 
key to the Three Sisters Keys to the northwest, called 
the Dragon's Teeth Reefs. In the past this isle was 
inhabited by Tanagoro tribes, but then it became a 
battlefield in the Aquapopulus War between humans 
and merrows (see the sidebar), one of the most tragic 



MouqaNa's islaND 

The woman called Morgana is a 
young, raven-haired beauty with 
violet eyes and copper complexion. 
This character was first introduced 
as one of the pregenerated PCs of 
adventure module M3 Twilight 
Calling, and had a Neutral 
alignment. 

Her past is shrouded in mystery, 
but she likely has Common 
Alphatian origin, while her name 
seems a Thyatianization of a 
common name used by some 
peoples of the Isle of Dawn 
(Morrigari). In truth, Morgana is 
quite old (she preserves her 
youthful appearance at 25 years old 
through magic longevity potions) 
and one of the most powerful 
magic-users of the Known World 
(around AC 1000 she should have 
reached 33 rd level in the Magic-User 
class under BECMI rules terms). 
She undertook many adventures 
during her past, at one time also 
becoming the ruler of the 
undeground city of Cynidicea (see 
adventure module B4 The Lost 
City) for a while. After that, she 
married one of her adventuring 
companions, the fighter Taran, had 
two children from him, and sat 
together with him on the throne of 
Ierendi for a couple of years after 
their victory in the local Royal 
Tournament of Adventurers. 

After separating from Taran, she 
created a tiny, magical floating 
island not far from the coasts of 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e MiNon islaNOs of tfte Sea of Dneat) 




one of Ierendi's isles. Today, 
Morgana lives there, paying 
occasional visits to her old 
adventuring companions (Taran 
included) and to her children, both 
of whom also have won the 
Ierendian crown on some years in 
the past. Morgana' s isle cannot 
move in the air, and is found many 
hundred feets above the sea level, 
even if the wizardess has enchanted 
it with the power to float 
downward into the sea, to appear 
as a true island. The island is 
surrounded by a powerful dispel 
magic effect (cast at the 33 rd level 
of power), which makes reaching 
it through fly spells and the like 
quite hazardous, and requires the 
use of magic items such as flying 
carpets and flying boats. The island 
is about 1000' across; its terrain is 
mostly rocky, with spurs and crags, 
but also sports short grasses and 
alpine-like vegetation, albeit with 
very few and short trees. In its 
center lies Morgana' s mansion, a 
small half-wizardly tower and half- 
mountain cottage building, where 
the wizardess conducts her 
experiments, studies, and 
researches about the Path to 
Immortality. 



A Little Known Stoirp: ^liyatiaN 
WestwauD ExpaNsioN 

The fact that the Ispans, a cultural subgroup of 
mainland Thyatis, were sent to colonize the eastern 
Savage Coast in a sort of "forced" migration is quite 
well known. What is not known as well is that 
Thyatian expansion in the western seas could have 
had some precedents. In fact, a couple of canon 
sources hint at this expansion. The second volume 
of the Poor Wizard's Almanac, under the "Davania" 
entry, says that the region of Davania stretching 
from the Adakkian Sound to the Hinterlands hosts 
«forgotten colonies from other nations*; while the 
Explorer's Manual in Champions of Mystara is even 
more explicit, saying that «the stretch of Davania' s 
coast closest to Yavdlom is inhabited by scattered 
city-states, the remnants of Thyatian and other 
nations' colonies that have since lost ties with their 
mother countries*. This, coupled with references 
to the "Aquapopulus War" in XSOLO Lathan's Gold, 
could make the basis for an interesting story about 
Thyatis' attempt to expand and control trade routes 
in the western Sea of Dread. 

When did the Empire establish colonies in the 
Green Coast? What so valuable did the Thyatians 
find there? Were the merrows of the Twaelar 
Kingdom responsible for the Empire's 
abandonment of its colonies in Davania? So is this 
struggle between Thyatis and the Twaelar Kingdom 
what is known as the "Aquapopulus War"? 

Another intriguing Mystaran history dilemma, 
which maybe will be further explored in one of the 
future issues of Threshold! 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



ri7e MiNon islaNOs of tlie Sea of DneaO 




battles of which was fought on this island. The few 
natives died in that occasion or migrated away 
afterwards. Today, the heart of the island is covered 
with the bones and the weapons of the soldiers who 
died fighting in that grim day. No one has settled this 
island since then. Source: XSOLO Lathan's Gold. 

Spider Isle 

This southern island is partially forested, and is 
inhabited by some tribes of Tanagoro ethnicity. 
Rumors hold that at the heart of the island is found 
the so-called Lost Temple of Araknee, an ancient stone 
building with a spider-shaped plan. Known World 
archaeologists speculate that the temple may have 
been built in ancient times by the Tanagoro to honor 
their spider-like Immortal, Korotiku, during the 
golden age of the human cultures of the Thanegioth 
Archipelago. Still today, missionaries from Thyatis and 
the Pearl Islands set on voyages toward this island to 
find this lost relic of their Immortal patron. Actually, 
the Lost Temple could be even more ancient than 
that, its original builders having been the aranea - 
some of which may actually still hide in disguise 
among the island's human population, Source: 
XSOLO Lathan's Gold. 

Termite Atoll 

A lonely island inhabited by friendly Makai tribes, who 
are usually willing to resupply ships from the Known 
World which stop there in exchange for tools and 
trinkets. Its names is due to the voracious giant 
salt-water termites which infest the sea around the 
island, attacking all ships trying to dock near it. Source: 
XSOLO Lathan's Gold. 

Three Sisters Keys 

This small archipelago of three tiny islets is separated 
from the eastern Sea of Dread by the Dragon's Teeth 
Reefs, a long coral reef running in northwest-southeast 
direction, which crosses the sea just east of the Three 
Sisters Keys and the southern Skeleton Key. These 
islands centuries ago were inhabited by Tanagoro 



Kyttiuia's PleasuRG 
islaND 

Not all the islands of the Sea of 
Dread live up to their host's name. 
Legends tell of a mysterious 
island, located somewhere in the 
huge expanse of this sea, where 
worthy mortal heroes can find 
solace from the life's trouble, 
enjoying for a while the most 
joyful pleasures in the company 
of beautiful nymphs and faeries, 
and where the Immortals 
themselves and some of their 
exalted servants sometimes come 
to remember the feelings of their 
life on Mystara. The story that 
follows was first devised in Codex 
Immortalis, Book I: Guide to the 
Immortals (by M. Dalmonte). 

Kythria's Deeds as a Mortal 

Kythria was a very successful 
Ierendian adventurer of Makai 
origins; besides undertaking 
memorable feats, she was gifted 
with great beauty and charm. 
Kythria became in a short time a 
person of renown in Ierendi; it 
was hers the idea to select the 
Kingdom's monarchs through the 
Royal Tournament of Adventurers 
- and this gained her a place of 
honor among the country's 
celebrated historical figures. 
Eventually she undertook the path 
toward Immortality under the 
patronage of Eiryndul. She is still 
today worshipped by minor cults 
in various countries as the 
patroness of lust, sensuality, and 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CI7G MiNon islaNOs of tlie Sea of Dneat) 




pleasure, and in Ierendi as a national 
heroine. 

As her last feat and testimony to achieve 
Immortality, Kythria created her Pleasure 
Island. The island is small (about 4 miles 
across), mostly plains and rolling hills, filled 
with flowering meadows, groves, springs 
and ponds of sweet waters, bountiful trees, 
flourishing orchards, beautiful cliffs, 
lagoons, underwater caves, and small falls. 
Fruits and water are always available on 
Pleasure Island. Small animals - singing 
birds, peacocks, squirrels, mouses, and the 
like - are found on the island. It hosts no 
artificial buildings besides a sensuous statue 
of a scantly-clad woman, representing 
Kythria, in everchanging hues, located at 
the very center of it; the statue is actually 
an artifact created by the Immortal. 

Your Wishes Coming True... 

Besides this, what else is found on Pleasure 
Island depend on its occupants - this is the 
power of Kythria's artifact. Whenever one 
lands on the island, the artifact will 
automatically read the newcomer's hidden 
wishes and lusts and react to them, subtly 
summoning, creating, or making them 
appear. Their appearance is not sudden, 
and things appear to the visitor as if they 
had always been there. This means that as 
the island's occupants change, so does what 
is found on it - people, animals, buildings, 
features - even if the elements which have 
been described above are always present. 
When people leave the island, the features 
and companions they had wished for slowly 
disappear, leaving room for the next 
comer's wishes. Nevertheless the hidden 
wishes given life by the artifact are not 
illusions, they are real, albeit temporarily. 



On the island one can encounter other 
peoples who are visiting the island and 
their own fulfilled wishes; in fact, multiple 
visitors are satisfied by the artifact at the 
same time. 

Obviously, the artifact can't satisfy just any 
type of wishes, but only those in line with 
Kythria's sphere of interest. A visitor 
looking for sensual or romantic fulfilment 
of any type (and in any surrounding) will 
almost always be satisfied, but one wishing 
to sit on a mountain glacier at dawn will 
not. Moreover, Kythria does not allow the 
artifact to satisfy outright cruel, excessively 
painful or destructive wishes - people 
harboring such feelings are anyway 
unlikely to be allowed by the Immortal to 
find her island. 

At any time, besides his own fulfilled 
wishes, a visitor on Pleasure Island will find 
merrows playing around its waters; 
nymphs bathing on the beaches; beautiful 
males and females of various races, ready 
to satisfy the visitor's wishes; cooked meals 
and fresh drinks for any taste; cozy 
cottages, romantic leisures, luxurious villas 
scattered here and there; wandering 
musicians, poets, and artists; and much 
much stranger, extravagant, lewd, and 
shocking things. Usually one or more 
powerful servants of Kythria (high-level 
clerics or even exalted beings) are present 
on the island to ensure that nothing 
endangers visitors of the island or the place 
itself. 

Occasionally, Kythria herself comes here 
in mortal form together with one of her 
Immortal or mortal lovers; Immortals such 
as Palson, Harrow, Bastet, and Eiryndul 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e MiNon islaNOs of tfte Sea of Dneat) 




have been known to spend some time on the 
island in mortal form. 

. . . and Their Side Effect 

The artifact also has a side effect on those 
who subjected to the island's pleasures: when 
they leave the island, a feeling of lack slowly 
pervades them, causing nostalgia for the 
happiness they experienced, and a sense of 
longing for them; after having been on the 
island, everything else will seem dull, boring, 
and ordinary. This feeling usually last for 
some weeks, but will never truly abandon 
again the one who has been on Pleasure 
Island, and the time passed there will be 
remembered by him or her as one of the 
happiest and most extraordinary times of all 
his life. 

Finding the Island 

The location of Pleasure Island is unknown 
to all, and can be placed anywhere in the Sea 
of Dread, more likely in high sea than near 
any of the surrounding continents or islands. 
The power of the artifact conceals the island 
with mists, illusions, and the like to most of 
those that Kythria would not allow on the 
island, which are then unable to see it. These 



are artifact-level powers, difficult to dispel 
or see through. 

Kythria usually directs here her most devout 
servants and worthy clerics, but also heroic 
adventurers, other people she has taken 
some interest in, and even casual travelers. 
She also loves to bring on Pleasure Island 
some bigot or fanatic of some other cult - 
especially those of grave Immortals such as 
Tarastia, Khoronus, Koryis, Ilsundal, Halav, 
Petra - and see how they behave, usually 
with amusing results. 

People are usually allowed to stay on the 
island for some weeks at most, then their 
fulfilled wishes start to vanish and new 
wishes are not satisfied anymore. People 
trying to stay on the island any longer 
usually get up one morning sitting on a 
barren, rocky island in the middle of the sea, 
alone with their possessions (and with their 
ship, if they had one), the people they came 
with, and the feeliing to having dreamed 
everything they experimented. Nevertheless, 
staying on the island is always a one-time 
experience in one's life; Kythria usually does 
not allow people to visit two times her 
Pleasure Island. 



tribesmen, but the humans have slowly 
disappeared and the keys have become the 
residence of the three Sisters of the Sea - 
Silera, Krimera, and Desimera, who give the 
three islands' their names. These mysterious 
beings - each of whom is supposed to dwell 
on one of the three keys - have never been 
seen; they make their presence known by 
taking control of other creatures and 
speaking through them. The Sisters are 
known to seamen since a long time; they 



don't like prolonged stays in their islands, 
and have been known to offer teleport 
anywhere else on Mystara to seamen who 
were victims of shipwrecks near the keys - a 
reward for the sacrifice of their ship against 
the Dragon's Teeth Reefs. No one knows what 
kind of beings the Three Sisters might be - 
unusual sea fairies, benevolent sirens, 
elemental beings, reclusive sorceresses, or 
what else. It may even be that the islands are 
much more inhabited by fairy occupants than 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



ri7e MiNon isiaNDs of tfte Sea of DneaO 




mortal eyes could tell. Source: XSOLO 
Lathan's Gold (the names of the three islands 
were invented by the author). 

Typhoons Island 

This wide volcanic islet has been avoided by 
sailors since some decades ago because of the 
dangerous typhoons and hurricanes which 
often hit the waters around it; any ship 
unfortunate enough to meet one of these 
phenomena is likely to sink below the waves. 
It's a pity that the island is found on the very 
route used by Minrothaddan ships to reach 
the Thanegioth Archipelago. No one has ever 
landed on the island and came back to tell 
what is found in the volcano's forested slopes. 
The truth is that the island's interior is 
inhabited by several Cyclops and it's also the 
home of Jord, a powerful storm giant. Source: 
AC 10 Bestiary of Dragons and Giants (the 
island's location was not exactly given in the 
module). 

Volcanic Tops 

A few islands are actually volcanic cones or 
mouths which emerge to some extent from 
the sea. These places are barren and 
uninhabited without exception - unless you 
take into account some fire creature dwelling 
into the volcanic cone. Examples of these 
islands are Devil's Glow and Dragon's Glare, 
south of the Ierendi Islands, and Coral Fire 
and Fireswell, south of Utter Island and 
Fortress Island, respectively. Source: PC3 The 
Sea People. 



TRADE IN THE SEA OF 
DREAD 

Since a long time ago, the Sea of Dread has 
been the crossroads of trade and migrations 
of people, through which cultures have come 
in contact, blended and clashed. From the 
Known World to Davania, from Ochalea and 
the Isle of Dawn to the Serpent Peninsula - 
passing through the Eastern Thanegioth 
Archipelago and the other smaller, scattered 
islands - despite its name the Sea of Dread 
has always been a bridge between different 
places and cultures. A role it continues to play 
today. 

After the Thyatian migration toward Brun and 
the fall of Nithia (BC 600-500), the greater 
expanse of the Sea of Dread, which had seen 
many migrations passing through it in the 
preceeding centuries, temporarily ceased to 
be crossed by ships, merchants, and explorers. 
For some centuries, shipping was limited to 
the northern archipelagos of Ierendi and the 
Colony Islands, to the Thyatian mainland and 
isles, and to the western Isle of Dawn down 
to Ochalea. 

Apart from attempts to consolidate a Thyatian 
trading empire in the western Sea of Dread 
(see the previous sidebar "A Little Known 
Story: Thyatian Westward Expansion"), the 
emerging sea powers of Minrothad and 
Ierendi, still in the 9 th century AC, continued 
to favor the route along the Great Waste's and 
the Serpent Peninsula's coasts to reach the 
Gulf of Hule or the Davanian Green Coast. 
The many islands which dotted the Sea of 
Dread continued to be unknown, unexplored, 
or uninteresting for them, as it was the Eastern 
Thanegioth Archipelago, whose seas were 
dominated by the proud and territorial 
Twaelar Kingdom of the merrows. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CI7G MiNon islaNOs of ttje Sea of Dneat) 




The latter half of the 10* century AC, however, 
saw a renewed interest in the Sea of Dread. 
Between 960 and 970 AC the Eastern 
Thanegioth Archipelago was again reached by 
Known World's ships, and its islands were 
gradually charted. The main explorer of this 
age was indeed the Ierendian Rory Barbarosa, 
who was the first to map the coastlines of the 
Isle of Dread. In fact, the Thanegioth islands 
were already known to be rich in exploitable 
resources - like precious gems and metals in 
possession of the natives or to be mined, 
unique spices, and other valuable goods. 
Trade in the archipelago had always been 
difficult due to resistance from the Twaelar 
Kingdom, but opposition from the merrows 
was lower in those decades; quite the 
contrary, the merrows took the opportunity 
to trade with Known World explorers and 
merchants, while keeping an eye on the 
increase of the northern realms presence into 



the region they controlled, and barring any 
incursion in the Davanian Shallows to the 
south. 

Nevertheless, in the last three decades, the 
Eastern Thanegioth saw an increasing 
presence of merchantmen - and, 
consequently, of pirate ships - in the 
archipelago. Most ships came from Ierendi 
and Minrothad, but ships from other sea 
countries were not unknown. The two island 
realm, however, managed to monopoli2e the 
two main trade routes - from Ierendi Island 
and from Trader's Isle straight south to two 
different point of the archipelago - and 
quickly discouraged all ships of other 
countries to trade along them. 

The only other power who managed to 
penetrate the archipelago was the Thyatian 
Empire, which at the same time was initiating 
the conquest of the Davanian Hinterlands. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



ri7e MiNon isiaNDs of tfte Sea of DneaO 




Thyatians came to Thanegioth from a route 
going south from Hattias and passing from 
the Burning Mountain, or from one going 
northwest from Ochalea. The Twaelar 
merrows did not take any immediate action 
against the Thyatian expansion into northern 
Davania, perhaps because they felt the area 
was to the southeast of their kingdom proper, 
or because they did not feel threatened at all 
by Thyatian land grabbing. 

Small outposts and coastal forts may also have 
been - and are being - built by these three 
sea powers in the most strategic locations of 
the archipelago, to ensure for themselves 
control of trade routes and resources. The 
Known World powers have also begun to 
value the strategic position of some of the 
minor islands of the Sea of Dread, and may 
soon claim possession of some of them. 

In AC 1000, the archipelago is an important 
trade hub, with still many interior areas 
unexplored, where ships from Ierendi, 
Minrothad, and Thyatis trade and compete, 
where pirate havens are increasingly 
numerous, where the humans meet with the 
Twaelar merrows to trade, where the clash of 
interests could soon lead to a war among the 
powers of the Known World to decide who 
will keep control of the archipelago's 
resources, or between them and the Twaelar 
Kingdom, which may again be persuaded that 
the human presence in the archipelago is 
becoming too thorough and dangerous. 



REFERENCES 

David Cook and Tom Moldvay, XI The Isle of 
Dread, TSR, 1981 

Tom Moldvay, B4 The Lost City, TSR 1982 

Bruce Nesmith, X7 The War Rafts of Kron, 
TSR, 1984 

Graeme Morris and Tom Kirby, X8 Drums on 
Fire Mountain, TSR, 1984 

Michael S. Dobson, XI Red Arrow, Black 
Steel, TSR 1985 

Tom Moldvay, M3 Twilight Calling, TSR, 1986 

Aaron Allston, GAZ1 The Grand Duchy of 
Karameikos, TSR, 1987 

Anne Gray McCready, GAZ4 The Kingdom of 
Ierendi, TSR, 1987 

Deborah Christian (ed.), AC10 Bestiary of 
Dragons and Giants, TSR, 1987 

David J. Ritchie, DA4 The Duchy of Ten, TSR, 
1987 

Deborah Christian and Kim Eastland, GAZ9 
The Minrothad Guilds, TSR, 1988 

Ed Greenwood, GAZ8 The Five Shires, TSR, 
1988 

Merle M. Rasmussen, XSOLO Lathan's Gold, 
TSR, 1988 

Aaron Allston, Dawn of the Emperors - Thyatis 
and Alphatia, TSR, 1989 

Carl Sargent, PC2 Top Ballista, TSR, 1989 

TM1 The Western Countries Trail Map, TSR, 
1989 

TM2 The Eastern Countries Trail Map, TSR, 
1989 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



ri7e MiNon isiaNDs of tfte Sea of DneaO 




Aaron Allston, Hollow World Campaign Set, 
TSR, 1990 

Jim Bambra, PC3 The Sea People, TSR, 1990 

Ann Dupuis (et al.), Champions ofMystara, 
TSR, 1993 

Ann Dupuis, Poor Wizard's Almanac II & 
Book of Facts - Edition for AC 1011, TSR, 1993 

Ann Dupuis, Poor Wizard's Almanac III & 
Book ofFacys - Edition for AC 1012, TSR, 1994 

Ann Dupuis and Elizabeth Tornabene, 
Joshuan's Almanac & Book of Facts, TSR, 
1995 

Savage Tide Adventure Path, in "Dungeon 
Magazine" issues 139-150, Paizo Publishing, 
2006-2007 

James Mishler, The Thanegioth Archipelago , 
netMAG4, [year unknown] 

Daniel Boese, The Sea of Dread , Mystara 
Mailing List, 1996 

Geoff Gander, Dark Worship in the Known 
World - The Thanegioth Archipelago , Mystara 
Message Boards, 1999 

James Mishler, Nueva Ispanola , Mystara 
Mailiing List, 1999 

Geoff Gander (ed.), The Dungeon Master's 
Guide to Cynidicea - A rules supplement for 
use in any Mystara campaign , Mystara Mailing 
List, 2000 

Christopher Cherrington, The Katonate 
Confederacy , Mystara Mailing List, 2002 

Sean Meaney, Ilsa Miena a Karameikan Prison 
Colony in the Thanegioth Archipelago , 
Mystara Message Boards, 2005 

Colin Davidson, Arachne, Island of Spiders , 
Mystara Message Boards, 2006 



Colin Davidson, History of Arachne , Mystara 
Message Boards, 2006 

Colin Davidson, The City of Hearts , Mystara 
Message Boards, 2006 

LoZompatore, Sea of Dread ancient cultures , 
Mystara Message Boards, 2006 

Simone Neri, Demografia Mystarana, Volume 
I - Compendia storico sociale del Mondo 
Conosciuto, 2007 

Simone Neri, Updated 24 miles hex map of 
the Known World , Mystara Message Boards, 
2007 

Havard, English Translation of NM2: The 
Treasure of Crocodile Island , The Piazza, 2008 

LoZompatore, A reference map with names , 
Mystara Message Boards, 2008 

LoZompatore, A general map of the trade 
network , Mystara Message Boards, 2008 

Simone Neri, Islands of the Sea of Dread , The 
Piazza, 2008 

Sean Meaney, Island of the Cannibals , The 
Piazza, 2009 

Marco Dalmonte, Codex Immortalis (3 ^ ed.) , 
English translation by Gary Davies, Vaults of 
Pandius, 2010-2011 

Francesco Defferrari, Map of Brun , The Piazza, 
2012 

Jesper Andersen, Kron - The Raft City , The 
Piazza, 2013 

John Calvin and Geoff Gander, Mystara 2300 
BC: Campaign Setting version 1.1 , Vaults of 
Pandius, 2013 

Chris Seabrook, New Thanegioth Archipelago 
Island , The Piazza, 2013 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



MystanaNOMicoN 




» » » Exploring the Books of Mystara 

by Jesper Andersen (Spellweaver) 



At one time or another, most Dungeon Masters 
have had their group of player characters 
enter a library, a sage's office, a wizard school 
or a noble's study and heard the dreaded 
question: 'So, what are all these books about?' 

Mystaranomicon is a regular column that 
provides Dungeon Masters with books ready 
to be inserted into any game with a moment's 
notice. Use them simply as colourful fluff or 
to provide clues and hooks to adventures. 
This time we look at books related to 
seafaring and the ocean realms. 

20,000 LECJS 
UNDER 'CHE SEA 

Author: Captain Noma 

Rarity: Common in the city of Seashield in the 
kingdom of Aquas in Alphatia, Uncommon in 
coastal cities in Ierendi and Minrothad Guilds, 
Rare elsewhere. 

Year: 988 AC 

Language: Originally Alphatian, but it now 
exists in the languages of many seafaring 
nations 

Contents: This famous book, written by 
Captain Noma of the Alphatian submersible 
vessel The Shark, is the memoir of his and his 



crew's journey down into the dreaded Abyss, 
below the terraces and the Twilight reaches 
of the Undersea. 

Captain Noma was a mage of some repute 
from the city of Seashield, famous for his 
personal exploration of the Elemental Plane 
of Water. In 986 AC, Noma received the 
patronage of King Zyndryl of Aquas and the 
use of his famous submersible, the Shark and 
her crew. The mission was to explore the 
depths of the Abyss and find the suspected 
portals or wormholes to the Elemental Plane 
of Water believed to be there. 

The expedition went as planned until they 
reached the Twilight. At 2,500 feet below the 
sea they encountered a horrifying 
monstrocity - a Gargantuan version of the 
large, aquatic millipedes known as mashers. 
This nightmarish creature was more than ten 
times as large as a normal masher and in a 
deadly battle nearly shattered the Shark 
before she finally escaped up to the warmer, 
sunlit ocean above. Captain Noma returned 
to Seashield and chronicled his exploits 
before finally succumbing in 990 AC to 
nightmares and drinking. 

Legality: Legal 

Number of pages: 150 pages 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



MystanaNOMicoN 




THE WISE MARINER'S 
ALMANAC 

Author: The Imperial Oceanic Explorers' 
Guild (Thyatian) 

Rarity: Common in seaports, Rare elsewhere 

Year: 997 AC (8th Edition) 

Language: Thyatian, but translations do exist 

Contents: This very popular almanac is a 
dictionary of all things nautical, from 
Oceansend to the Hinterlands. It lists 
everything from common diseases and 
conditions to weather phenomenons and signs 
of underwater reefs or other hidden dangers. 
Each edition is expanded with the latest new 
information from all corners of the Thyatian 
Empire. It does not teach you how to pilot a 
ship, but it will teach you how to keep the 
galley free from rats, how to forage for fresh 
water and supplies on unknown shores or how 
much you can water down the crew's grog 
without endangering the morale onboard. 

Legality: Legal 

Number of pages: 200 





COCONUT AQAIN 
TOMORROW - 
SURVIVING STRANDED 
IN THE SEA OF DREAD 



Author: Harremiah Athazar 

Rarity: Very Rare. Mostly known in Ierendi, 
Minrothad Guilds and Karameikos 

Year: 993 AC 

Language: Thyatian 

Contents: This book could just as easily have 
been classified as a biography, had it not been 
for its numerous, innovative recipes for 
coconut. The author, a sailor named 
Harremiah Athazar, got shipwrecked on a 
small island in the Sea of Dread and managed 
to survive for almost 30 years before he was 
rescued by another ship. By that time he had 
gone almost completely mad, yet he managed 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



MystanaNOMicoN 




to write down his memoirs when he got back 
to the mainland before being committed to an 
asylum run by kind monks. Other sailors might 
acquire this book and read it just to prepare 
themselves for the worst possible scenario. 

Legality: Legal 

Number of pages: 75 

IN HER MAJESrVS 

service - privateer of 
t:he crown 

Author: Captain Blaimonde of The Undaunted 

Rarity: Uncommon in Ierendi (but quickly 
becoming Common), Rare elsewhere 

Year: 1000 AC 

Language: Ierendi 

Contents: This is the tale of the exploits of 
Captain Blaimonde - one of the Queen of 
Ierendi's most successful and daring privateers 
in recent decades. Wanted for piracy in the 
Empire of Thyatis, at home in Ierendi 
Blaimonde is something close to a national 
hero - the personification of the island 
kingdom's free spirit and love of 
independence. 

Foreign ambassadors have seeked to have the 
book banned, saying that it inspires outright 
unlawful behavior such as piracy, but so far 
the daring captain remains in the queen's good 
graces - which somewhat annoys the king. 

Legality: Legal in Ierendi, frowned upon in 
other seafaring nations 

Number of pages: 125 pages 



ALCJAIR'S SEA LEDCJER 

Author: Algair Teic 
Rarity: Common 
Year: 998 AC 

Language: Thyatian mainly, but translated 
into several languages 

Contents: The famous Sea Ledger is a 
popular book among seafarers because it 
remains one of the few and fairly accurate 
accounts of a voyage to the Thanegioth 
Archipelago - the islands 1000 miles south of 
Ierendi and Minrothad Guilds. 

The Sea Ledger was never intended for 
widespread publication. It was the book in 
which captain Algair Teic kept accounts of 
his trading ventures with the natives of the 
isles, including commentary about 
observations he made about the popularity 
of various goods his crew had brought from 
the mainland. The ledger also includes a few 
accounts of good places to anchor around 
the archipelago but Algair only ever visited 
less than five percent of the isles. The ledger 
was later stolen and the entrepreneurial thief 
managed to produce and sell several copies 
before he was caught. By then, the book had 
spread like wildfire all along the coast from 
Soderfjord to Athenos. 

Legality: Legal 

Number of pages: 150 pages 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



MystanaNOMicoN 




UNDER THE STARS - A 
SAILOR'S QUIDE TO 
ASTRONOMICAL 
PHENOMENON 



7UJ/. .i XI Hit \ -if I 




Author: Fithraldor of Clan Kelar of the 
Waterelves 

Rarity: Rare 

Year: 963 AC 

Language: Elvish 

Contents: This book is a long account of 
Fithraldor's observations during decades of 
sailing on the Sea of Dread. It notes the 
patterns of moons and comets, the movement 
of the stars in the night sky and other matters 
related to astronomy and astrology. It is an 
impressive work but really only valuable to 
astronomers and collectors. 

Legality: Legal 

Number of pages: 125 



BOOK RARITy 
REFERENCE TABLE 

Unique: 

Only the original copy of this work has 
ever been known to exist 

Collectible: 

Less than 20 copies of this work are known 
or rumoured to exist 

Very Rare: 

Less than 200 copies of this work are 
known or rumoured to exist 

Rare: 

Enough copies of this work exist that it 
may show up in private collections and 
very large libraries across the world. Only 
rarely is one sold, rather copies are 
preserved and passed on. 
Uncommon: 

This book is difficult to come by but not 
impossible. If you can afford it, libraries 
or sages will probably allow you to have a 
copy made from theirs. 

Common: 

This book is readily available in most major 
cities. Books are often common if they are 
reproduced for teaching purposes. 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



BauanNa islaNb 





FROM 

'CHE VAUIXS 
OF PANDIUS 



A Trufy Dreadful Destination: 

rana Maid 

by Geoff Gander (Seer of Yhog) 




FOREWORD 



In 1999 I wrote an article about an island in 
the Thanegioth Archipelago inhabited by 
troglodytes who had an abiding interest in 
sacrificing anyone they captured to the Outer 
Beings. The article was a sequel of sorts to a 
piece I wrote about ancient evils in the 
Thyatian Hinterlands of Davania ( "A Discovery 
in the Hinterlands" ) . I had had plans at the 
time to write an entire series of articles 
detailing ancient cults and holdovers from 
dark times that DMs could insert into their 
campaigns to give them a more Lovecraftian 
flavour. Although I continued to flesh out the 
cosmology of the Outer Beings, I never did 
write the third installment of Marcus Cassius 
Aurestius' misadventures (which would have 
centered on the Blight Swamp); although 
some of the ideas did finally come to life in 
my "Mental Ramblings" story. 

As to why I chose Bararna Island in the first 
place, the answer is fairly simple. I was very 
aware of the popularity of XI : The Isle of 
Dread, but had long thought that the 
Thanegioth Archipelago needed some truly 
dark antagonists in the classic pulp action style 
(which was what I was writing at that time) - 
the kopru were good villains, but not dark 
enough for my tastes. I was reading a lot of 
H.P. Lovecraft and Robert E. Howard (Conan 
the Barbarian) then, and it seemed only 
natural that I should take a random island and 



turn it into an unforgettably nasty place! I 
thought I had succeeded. Revisiting Bararna 
Island has been fun, and going through this 
exercise has allowed me to flesh it out to a 
degree that just wasn't possible back then. I 
hope you enjoy this voyage just as much. 

- G.G. 

INTRODUCTION 

Well-travelled Mystaran adventurers (and 
their players) will no doubt know of the 
aptly-named Isle of Dread. Remote, exotic, 
and teeming with hostile plants and animals, 
the Isle is the quintessential "lost world", 
complete with dinosaurs. The particularly 
bold - or simply those with little or no sense 
of self-preservation - may also be familiar with 
the Isle's evil and utterly inhuman masters, 
the kopru, who fume and plot in the very 
centre of the island. With all that danger and 
excitement, it is easy to forget that there are 
many other islands in the Thanegioth 
Archipelago, each of which could be home 
to equally exotic - and deadly - inhabitants. 
One such place is Bararna Island, which was 
named after an unfortunate Kerendan 
explorer who was shipwrecked there roughly 
50 years ago, and managed to survive there 
long enough to be found by another vessel. 
His encounters with the inhabitants were well 
documented, which prompted many 
adventurers to visit the island in the years 
since. Few returned. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



BauanNa islaNb 




QEOQRAPHy AND 
CLIMATE 

"The Immortals grant that I should find relief 
from this oppressive place which civilised 
man has had the sense to overlook. " 

- from "My Life on the Waves", by Octavius 
Cato (published 981 AC) 

Bararna Island, which lies due east of the Isle 
of Dread, is a long, narrow, heavily forested 
place. The land rises gently from the sea in 
most places to a height of roughly 300 feet 
above sea level to a central ridge of hills 
running the length of the island, with a 
shallow, swampy depression many miles wide 
(lying roughly 100 feet above sea level) 
situated in the centre. Unlike the better- 
known Isle of Dread, there are no true 
mountains or active volcanoes here. 

Many streams and rivers of varying sizes wind 
their way from the hilly uplands to the coast 
and the swampy interior. The oceangoing 
rivers generally flow swift and straight, while 
the few interior rivers wind more due to the 
gentler slope until they converge in the central 
swamp. All of them contain many species of 
freshwater fish and aquatic insects; although 
the central swamps are home to much larger 
varieties. A single, shallow river - known only 
to the native inhabitants - drains the swamp 
sluggishly into the sea. 

The coastline is dotted with dozens of coves, 
many of which are deep enough to be used as 
natural harbours for oceangoing vessels. 
Offshore, the seabed drops away precipitously 
to the north and south. As with the rest of the 
Thanegioth Archipelago, Bararna Island is 
tropical with a rainy season from Ambyrmont 
to the end of Flaurmont, with little rainfall 
during the rest of the year. Even during the 



dry season, however, the air is quite humid; 
although it is stifling in the central swamps 
all year round. Storms and fog banks are 
common around the coasts, which only add 
to the island's less than inviting reputation. 

FLORA AND FAUNA 

"...and all the while we noticed something 
odd about this land. There were no birds, 
nor were there any mammals - at least, none 
that showed themselves. " 

- from the account of Marcus Cassius 
Aurestius (c. AC 997) 




At first glance, Bararna Island is a tropical 
paradise. Palm trees and cycads, interspersed 
with ferns, grow thickly over much of the 
island. Fruit trees - such as papaya and 
mango - are also present in large numbers, 
and the sickly-sweet aromas of the rotting 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Banaiwa islaNt) 




fruit attract numerous insects. Although the 
jungles extend to the coastline in most parts 
of the island, the northern and eastern coasts 
are rocky, and there ferns are predominant. 
The interior swamplands are filled with reeds, 
cattails, as well as lilypads as wide as a man is 
tall. 

Bararna Island is unique among the islands of 
Thanegioth in that almost all of its animal life 
is reptilian or amphibious. The rocky beaches 
of the northern shore teem with abnormally 
large (6-7 foot long) iguanas that feed on the 
mats of seaweed that coat the tidal zones, 
while further inland the dense tropical jungles 
echo with the chirps and croaks of frogs and 
toads - and the hissing of the snakes that eat 
them. There are no mammals or birds to be 
found anywhere, nor have any lived here for 
millennia. 

Of all the island's inhabitants, the semi-civilised 
troglodytes dominate every region. Most 
follow a hunter-gatherer existence and are 
grouped into loose tribes led by a shaman or 
powerful warrior. Although the troglodytes 
of Bararna Island are a Stone Age culture, they 
do have the technological know-how required 
to build outrigger canoes capable of sailing 
the length of the archipelago if necessary - 
thus they are known to many coastal 
communities on all of the islands. 

THE FIVE TRIBES OF 
BARARNA 

"We were not alone, however, for in the midst 
of that clearing, dancing around the fire to 
the sonorous thrumming of those unseen 
drums, were unwholesome lizard-kin!" 

- from the account of Marcus Cassius 

Aurestius 



The troglodytes are divided into five tribes, 
each of which has its own traditions and 
taboos. Most tribes generally coexist 
peacefully so long as warriors stay within their 
own lands; however, during times when 
hunting (for food or sacrifices) is poor, 
bloody skirmishes are common. Shamans, 
however, wander the island unopposed - all 
tribes share the belief that touching a shaman 
without permission invites great misfortune 
on the offender's family. Each of the tribes 
is described briefly below: 

Asteb ("blooDieD Hill") 

At 140 strong, this tribe is the smallest; 
however, what it lacks in numbers it more 
than makes up for in sheer ferocity. Its 
warriors are well known for their propensity 
to go berserk in battle, and to desecrate the 
remains of their fallen enemies. The other 
tribes are generally content to leave them 
alone, and will mount raids into their 
territory only when the need is dire. 

DM Notes: Members of this tribe gain an 
additional + 1 to hit in battle, on top of other 
bonuses. Warriors do not make Morale 
checks once battle is joined. 

KuQMauek ("stoNe-aRMouueD") 

This tribe of 600 troglodytes occupies the 
rockier portions of the uplands of Bararna 
Island, and controls most of the paths leading 
into the interior swamp. Their warriors make 
frequent raids on neighbouring tribes to 
make up for the poor hunting on their own 
lands, and they have a reputation for being 
disciplined combatants - and for giving no 
quarter at all to vanquished enemies. Being 
intensely pragmatic, the Kugmarek will often 
eat a fallen opponent if given the chance. If 
the opponent (regardless of race) fought well, 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Banaiwa islaNt) 




the troglodytes of this tribe will posthumously 
"adopt" them, and name one of their 
hatchlings after them if the victim's name was 
known. In doing so, the fallen warrior's 
strength is added to the tribe's. 

DM Notes: Members of the Kugmarek tribe 
receive an additional Armour Class bonus of 
1, on top of any other bonus. Due to their 
skill in battle, it is also impossible to gain a 
flanking attack against a warrior of this tribe. 

RaKoRaquesli ("sea stoRM") 




These troglodytes occupy the westernmost 
part of the island. One would think their tiny 
territory would be barely sufficient to sustain 
this 400-strong tribe, but the vast majority 
spend most of their time at sea. They are, in 
fact, the most accomplished sailors among the 
troglodytes, and their massive canoes have 
ranged as far as the outer reaches of Yavdlom 
in search of plunder and captives. They 
occasionally offer their services to other 
troglodytes, and sometimes even human tribes 
on the Isle of Dread, in exchange for plunder. 
Because of this, the Rakoragresh are generally 
distrusted by their kin. 



DM Notes: Members of this tribe gain a + 1 
to all sailing skills, and they may re-roll one 
bad result per day (but the new result must 
be accepted) . 

Keuesli Cf wauuioR") 

The 550 members of this tribe have long- 
running feuds against the Rakoragresh (who 
delight in raiding their land) and the 
Kugmarek (with whom they have numerous 
territorial disputes). This tribe is unique in 
that it is the only one that mines, and forges 
iron weapons and armour. This has given its 
warriors an edge (no pun intended) in battle. 
The chieftain dreams of gaining dominance 
over all of the other tribes, and using the 
combined might of all the troglodytes to build 
an empire as described in their most ancient 
legends. 

DM Notes: Troglodytes from this tribe gain 
a + 1 to hit and a -2 bonus to Armour Class 
when fighting in formation. 

NaleMQesli Tunsggn oncs") 

The 250 members of this tribe are 
sandwiched between the Rakoragresh and 
the Keresh, both of which are more numerous 
and generally more aggressive. The frequent 
raids have led the Nalemgesh to become very 
stealthy, and proficient in concealing 
themselves - even for troglodytes. They are 
reclusive, and are more likely to pepper 
intruders with poison darts than challenge 
them. These troglodytes have built their two 
villages in the trees themselves, and each is 
protected by magics that confuse the 
uninvited. Members of the Keresh tribe 
occasionally buy passage across Nalemgesh 
land in order to raid Rakoragresh territory. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



BauanNa islaNt) 




DM Notes: Members of this tribe gain an 
additional bonus of +1 when attempting to 
surprise opponents. They also gain a +2 
bonus on saving throws vs. Poison. 

HISrORy (AS THE 
rROQLODyCES KNOW IC) 

"The medicine man shook his rattle and began 
telling me the saga of his people. In that 
moment I was grateful to have learned the 
tongue of the lizard men, for that, I am sure, 
is all that kept me alive. " 

- from "My Life on the Waves", by Octavius 
Cato (published 981 AC) 

The troglodytes maintain a rich and detailed 
oral history, dating back almost 8,000 years to 
the dying days of the Carnifex Empire. 
Through their interpretation, the tribes tell a 
story of coming to a great island during a time 
of upheaval in which their ancestral home had 
been destroyed. After taming the land and 
building a strong realm of their own, their 
remote ancestors were beset by hostile human 
kingdoms who coveted their wealth and 
glorious cities. During this period of strife, 
epic heroes arose who, wielding the Five 
Spears of the True People, led the troglodytes 
to great victories. What followed, according 
to the ancient histories, was a golden age in 
which the troglodyte kingdom received tribute 
from dozens of humbled nations. 

The troglodytes' undoing was their generosity. 
In defeating so many of their enemies, the 
victorious troglodyte armies acquired 
thousands of prisoners, whom they brought 
back to their island as slaves. While many were 
used as common labourers, some human 
captives were tractable enough that they could 
be trusted with more complicated, and 



important, tasks. Some of the craftier slaves, 
dreaming of revenge, learned the secrets of 
the troglodytes' defences and betrayed their 
generous masters during an attack by a 
coalition of human realms. The troglodyte 
kingdom was utterly destroyed, ushering in 
a dark age from which the tribes have not yet 
emerged. 



The original article on Bararna Island 
provides the true history of the troglodytes; 
I will not repeat it here, aside from noting 
that the legendary, long lost kingdom the 
tribes claim as their own was in fact the 
realm of the Vhog Carnfiex, who were the 
masters of the troglodytes' ancestors. The 
conflicts with human nations are dimly- 
remembered conflicts with Lhomarr and 
its allies, and the ancient betrayal by crafty 
human slaves was a complete fabrication. 
Regardless, almost all of the inhabitants 
believe this legend to be true, and this 
forms the basis of their hatred of the 
humans on neighbouring islands. 



CULTURE 

"They lived in accordance with the rhythms 
of their island, but that such an otherwise 
idyllic place should be home to such as they 
makes a mockery of any notions of Nature's 
balance. " 

- from "My Life on the Waves", by Octavius 
Cato (published 981 AC) 

The tribes of Bararna Island follow a largely 
hunter-gatherer existence, with life centred 
around two or three villages within their 
territories. There is little industry to speak 
of in these communities beyond the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



Bauaiwa islaNb 




fashioning of weapons and basic tools; 
although many troglodytes also create art out 
of sea shells, driftwood, and bones. Due to 
the long-running antagonisms that exist 
among some tribes, and the lack of variation 
on the island in terms of resources, there is 
relatively little trade - or inter-tribal contact 
in general. 

Each village, regardless of tribe, is led by the 
oldest female, who is advised by the most 
senior shamans and warriors. Of the two 
groups, the shamans have more influence due 
to the strong spiritual undertone present in 
all communities, which is a hold-over from the 
period when this part of the world was 
dominated by the Carnifex. In times of strife, 
however (which happen fairly frequently), the 
warriors quickly take control in order to 
co-ordinate the defence of the tribe's territory. 
Day-to-day village life, however, is the exclusive 
province of the tribal mother, and her word 
is law. A tribal mother rules her community 
until death, after which the second-oldest 
female assumes control. Understandably, most 
tribal mothers rule for a few years at most, and 
as each wishes to make their mark on their 
communities it is not unusual for laws and 
traditions to change drastically when a new 
tribal mother takes over. Most members of 
the tribe accept this as the natural rhythm of 
life, much as the rainy season follows the dry, 
and simply accommodate whatever changes 
their new leader imposes. However, there is 
only so much change a tribal mother can 
impose before the shamans, acting as the 
guardians of morality and tradition, step in. 
Internal strife is not uncommon. Despite the 
frequent upheavals, the core values of the 
troglodytes remain largely unchanged. 

Shamans, in addition to their ceremonial 
duties and their role as guardians of social 



order and spiritual health, prepare herbal 
remedies to cure the diseases that frequently 
pass through the islands, and provide what 
passes for formal education among their 
tribes. In the latter role, they are living 
repositories for the extensive oral history of 
the troglodytes. The shamans also direct the 
young to occupations that they feel would be 
most suitable - whether it be a warrior, an 
artisan, or (for the lucky few) an apprentice 
to a shaman. If a young troglodyte is chosen 
in this way, he or she is immediately sent to 
live with their new master, acquires a new 
name, and all familial ties are severed. The 
apprentice's family holds a funeral, and never 
speaks the offspring's name again. 

On rare occasions, a young troglodyte will 
refuse the role assigned to them by a shaman. 
If this happens, the youth will be permitted 
to make their own choice if they survive an 
ordeal assigned to them by the tribal mother 
- unless they were destined to become a 
shaman, in which case they are imprisoned 
and sacrificed at the next new moon. 

Although inter-tribal rivalry is common, 
almost all of the troglodytes are united in 
their devotion to the Outer Being known as 
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Seen, whom they call 
Gleeshka. Their patron is revered as the 
source of all life and as their protector, and 
in their mythology He led them to Bararna 
Island during a time of great chaos. The 
troglodytes revere Gleeshka by way of 
quarterly sacrifices - usually humans captured 
from neighbouring islands, but when these 
efforts fail they turn to members of rival 
tribes. Gleeshka is not terribly picky. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



Banaiwa islaNt) 




SECRETS OF THE ISLAND 

Before the Taymoran disaster the central, 
swampy depression was a shallow, sulphurous 
lake fed by hot springs, which was inhabited 
by kopru. From their inhospitable domain, 
they controlled the surrounding region in the 
name of their master, the Emperor of Adhuza. 
Undersea aftershocks following the sinking of 
Taymora collapsed many of the hot springs, 
which made the highlands uninhabitable for 
the kopru as the lake drained away. Since that 
time, the once-magnificent underwater palace 
has been looted by the troglodytes, and what 
remained has fallen into ruin and largely sunk 
into the swamp. Jagged, mossy wall fragments 
poke out of the reeds. The troglodytes know 
of the ruins, and have tales of their former 
masters, but none come here because their 
shamans have declared the entire swamp to 
be taboo. The only visitors are the shamans 
themselves, who come here to commune with 
their ancestors and to train their apprentices, 
and to meet amongst themselves. 

While the upper level of the palace has been 
picked clean, the lower level, which once 
contained the private chambers of the kopru, 
is still largely untouched thanks to the 
presence of numerous mundane and magical 
traps - many of which no longer function. It 
can be accessed via a weed-choked, perfectly 
circular hole in the centre of the ruins, which 
leads to a winding, flooded tunnel, at the end 
of which is a series of natural caverns. All of 
these caverns are flooded, and contain some 
of the personal treasures of the kopru who 
once dwelt here. Another watery passage, 
which once led to the ocean, leads further 
down for 100 feet before ending in a massive 
rockfall (caused by the quakes from the 
Taymoran disaster). These caverns contain 
fish of varying sizes and giant clams, who feed 



off of tiny zooplankton that in turn live on 
bacteria. 

Some examples of the treasures that the 
players could find are listed below: 

DiaDeM of iNf lueNce 

This is a ruby diadem set in gold, shaped to 
fit the head of a kopru. When worn, it 
enhances a kopru's inborn charm ability, such 
that all saving throws are penalised by 2. This 
item cannot be used by other races. 

Necklace of LaNbwalkiNQ 

This necklace is composed of hundreds of 
gold and silver links, interspersed with 
pea-sized, uncut aquamarine stones. When 
worn by a kopru, the necklace creates a 10 
foot wide sphere of water around them, 
which can be controlled by thought. The 
water ball's magical surface tension allows it 
to roll over any surface, up to a 60 degree 
inclination, at a speed of 60' per turn (or 20' 
per round). While inside the ball a kopru can 
breathe easily, cast spells, and speak (its voice 
can be heard outside the water ball; although 
it sounds distorted). The ball lasts for up to 
six hours when created, at the end of which 
time it evaporates back to the Plane of 
Elemental Water at a rate of one foot in 
diameter per round. 

AMplif ieu Statue 

This foot-tall statue, carved out of coral to 
resemble a kopru, was designed to pick up 
the mind-control signals of the kopru masters 
of Adhuza and rebroadcast them over a larger 
area, thus enabling them to control the 
populace without having to be physically 
present. Hundreds of these statues were 
made, and many remain scattered across the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



BananNa islaNt) 




archipelago. The enchantments in the statue 
are specifically attuned to kopru brainwaves, 
and therefore it cannot be used by any other 
race. 

QauNtlets of Vitality 




This item once belonged to a Taymoran hero 
of noble (i.e., vampiric) blood, who sought to 
assassinate the kopru overseers of this region 
when it was part of Adhuza. He failed in his 
mission, and a few of his items ended up in 
kopru hands. The gauntlets appear to be 
normal leather and metal gauntlets (which 
have been preserved from centuries of being 
underwater due to their enchantments), with 
what appear to be four thumbnail-sized pearls 
mounted on the wrists. Each of these pearls 
opens when tapped five times, revealing a 
hollow. If filled with fresh blood, each pearl 
will act as a cure light wounds spell, and will 
activate as soon as the wearer sustains damage 
- the blood is consumed by the activation of 
the healing magic. Blood kept in a pearl will 
last only a week before spoiling. 



Horns of Tuny 

This is a pair of enduk horns, inlaid with gold 
and rubies, attached to a simple metal cap. 
When worn, the horns increase the wearer's 
Strength by 2 (to a maximum of 18), but also 
make them prone to berserk rages when in 
combat (cumulative 10% chance per round 
of combat), during which they must attack 
the nearest person - friend or foe. These 
horns were worn by the elite warriors of the 
Taymoran city-state of Tycur. The horns incur 
a reaction penally of -4 with minotaurs, 
whereas enduks must save vs. Spells or fly 
into a rage and seek to kill the wearer (with 
an additional +3 bonus to their attacks). 



MoquetliiaN Off iceu's SworD 



This sword (afalcata +2) was 
issued to most officers in the 
armies of Mogreth in the later 
period of the Second Empire 
(BC 2300 - BC 2000) who were 
based out of Theliir (modern- 
day Tel Akbir). Most such 
swords were enchanted to give 
the wielder an edge against the 
foes most likely to be 
encountered during those 
times, such as the Taymorans, 
the Adhuzans, and the free sea 
peoples. The most common 
enchantments used were water- 
breathing, flames on command, 
and haste - the DM should 
choose which one has been 
placed on the sword. Roughly 
10% of such swords, which 
would have been wielded by 
senior officers, were imbued 
with two enchantments. 



J 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Banaiwa islaNt) 




Optional rules for falcata weapon mastery have 
been created, or the DM may rule that this 
works the same way as a normal sword. 

ADVENTURE HOOKS 

The most obvious way of introducing the 
players to this setting is to have them come 
across references to it in an incidental fashion 
(perhaps in the form of a journal found in a 
treasure hoard, or overheard in a bar). The 
information gained in this way would likely be 
incomplete and/or inaccurate, and should 
whet their appetites to learn more. 

Another way of learning about Bararna Island 
would be to encounter Marcus Cassius 
Aurestius himself. Marcus survived his 
adventure on the island, and likely did more 
than just write about it. He could be giving a 
lecture tour about his discoveries at a variety 
of Mystaran colleges, and depending on who 
the PCs know they could very well have heard 
of him. Marcus would happily share additional 
information with the PCs - especially if they 
expressed a willingness to go to the island and 
try to put down the menacing creature that 
devoured his companions. 

Alternatively, the PCs can find their way to 
Bararna Island in much the same way as the 
original discoverer did - by accident. In this 
case, the PCs may not even know about the 
island and its fearsome reputation. This might 
be the best way to introduce the island. 



NBWMONSVERS 

"Of its description I can say little, save that 
it resembled a moving blackness - a 
crawling, slithering, mass of nothingness 
that destroyed all it touched. " 

- from the account of Marcus Cassius 
Aurestius (c. AC 997) 




Aragresh (Glorious Warrior) 

Armour Class: 6 
Hit Dice: 15**** 
Horror Rating: 12 
Move: 60' (20') 

Attacks: 2 grab or 1 smother, or 1 devour 
Damage: Id6/ld6 or 3d4 + special or 
ld8/round 

Number Appearing: 1 (1) 
Save As: F17 
Morale: 10 
Treasure Type: None 
Intelligence: 6 
Alignment: Chaotic 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



BauanNa islaNb 




Aragresh (lit., "glory warrior" 1 ) are elephant- 
sized masses of black protoplasmic matter that 
originate in the same dimension that currently 
houses their master, He-Who-Must-Not-Be- 
Seen (also known as the One - "Gleeshka" to 
His troglodyte followers). These exceedingly 
rare creatures are almost only found in or near 
temples dedicated to their master, who is not 
known for being terribly interested in the 
affairs of mortals. The few scholars who are 
familiar with the forbidden lore of the Outer 
Beings are not entirely sure what purpose the 
Vault Fiends serve. 

These creatures lack any skeletal structure and 
are highly elastic, and as such can assume any 
shape they wish and can stretch or contract 
their forms to pass through almost any 
aperture (even as small as a keyhole; although 
passing their entire form through it would take 
a full turn). They are also immune to fire, 
lightning, and non-magical weapons. The foul 
odour exuded by these creatures is such that 
anyone within 10 feet must save vs. Poison 
each round or succumb to nausea (-4 to 
attacks, skill checks and saves). These effects 



This was incorrectly translated by Marcus as "Vault Fiend", 
due to his weak grasp of the troglodyte tongue - which, 
although related to the common lizard man tongue (known 
as Hemkalss, which he did speak well), has important 
etymological differences. Hemkalss uses the letter "h"; 
although it is pronounced towards the back of the palate and 
is occasionally hard to discern. Non-native speakers who 
wish to have any skill with the language quickly train 
themselves to listen attentively for this letter, as dropping it 
can substantially change the meaning of what is being said. 
The troglodyte tongue rarely makes use of "h", and thus 
Marcus heard "Haragresh", and from that inferred the 
component word "harag", which means "pit", or "cavern" - 
a reasonable conclusion, given the creature was emerging 
from a pit at the time. In fact, the troglodytes were saying 
"arag", which is derived from the Carnifex word "arh" (light) 
- which also carries the implied meaning of glory (this is not 
the case in Hemkalss). 



remain until the individual leaves the area of 
effect for one turn. 

In combat, an aragresh can extend parts of 
its mass twice per round to grab its 
opponents (inflicting ld6 crushing damage), 
or it can try to smother an opponent for 3d4 
damage, after which the victim must make a 
successful attack to escape. Until they do so, 
a victim must save vs. Death Ray each round 
or suffocate in 2d6 rounds and die ld4 
minutes thereafter. The aragresh' s most 
deadly attack, however, is its ability to devour 
its victim whole. If it hits, it wraps itself 
around its victim and begins liquefying and 
absorbing their flesh for ld8 damage per 
round. Once the victim's hit points fall to 0, 
he or she is absorbed completely (no 
resurrection is possible). 



OibDawq PneseNtS: QazF 




CONtiNUiNQ tlje *~-^&^t 
QazettGGR t:uat>itioN BeyoNO 
ttje Known Worio 



..at tlje Vaults of PaNbius 

l)ttp://WWW.paNt>iUSXOM 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G Eiupine of tlie FinelonO 




SUMMARy 

I wrote this campaign in the early 1990 's, and 
our group played it in 1994-95, if I remember 
correctly. The events take place in the 
Thanegioth Archipelago circa 1000 AC, but the 
campaign can be adapted to other time 
periods, as it is only loosely connected to 
canon material. It should be noted however, 
that this is not a ready-to-run adventure. The 
editors of Threshold have courteously 
provided island maps based on my originals, 
but any building maps are long since gone. 
Also in keeping with the spirit of this 
publication, I have kept the text rules-light. 
On the other hand, the prospective GMs would 
have to tailor the campaign to suit the abilities 
of the PCs anyway. I provide only 
approximations of monster and NPC numbers 
and abilities. In any case the campaign will be 
a demanding one for the PCs, so it is definitely 
meant for the higher Expert-level range in ye 
olde D&D parlance. 

This campaign assumes that the Thanegioth 
Archipelago is unknown and unexplored, 
much like the assumptions made in XI Isle of 
Dread. That module is definitely useful for 
anyone running this campaign. The mystery 
of the archipelago is central to the campaign. 



The campaign revolves around the ambitions 
of the renegade magic-user Daricus, who 
harbours a bitter hatred for the two empires, 
Alphatia and Thyatia. He is the leader of the 
ancient Cult of Starfire Sphere, a sub-cult 
within the larger cult of Rathanos, the 
Immortal of fire and energy. Daricus has built 
a small empire in the Thanegioth Archipelago, 
led by himself as the "Firelord" and other 
members of the cult, fire mages and clerics 
of Rathanos. His ambitions are many: 1) to 
finalize his control of the whole Archipelago 
and to decimate the remaining opposition, 
2) to exact revenge on Thyatis and Alphatia 
and 3) to complete the mystical Ritual of 
Ascension that will assist him in all his other 
goals and make him one of the most powerful 
beings in the world. If he succeeds, a 
powerful Reign of Fire will begin on these 
parts of Mystara. 

The assumption of this campaign is that the 
PCs oppose the Firelord. They have been sent 
to investigate the disappearance of many 
Thyatian vessels in the Sea of Dread - they 
were captured or scuttled by the Firelord's 
raiders. The quest to punish these strange 
pirates pits them against a dangerous foe, 
reveals ancient secrets, offers the possibility 
of new friends and allies, and may decide the 
fate of the two empires. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Cl7e Eiupine of tlie Finelonfc 
m 




HISTORICAL 
BACKGROUND AND 
TIMELINE 

The backdrop for the whole campaign and 
much of its historical background is the Cult 
of Rathanos and one of its sub-cults, the Cult 
of the Starfire Sphere. I'll explore that first and 
then move on to describe first the history of 
the original Firelord and then the history of 
the modern Firelord Daricus. In the end of 
this section I'll offer a schematic timeline. 

RattjaNos aNb ttje Cult of ttje 
Stauf iue Splieue 

Rathanos is an Immortal 

f consumed by an interest 
in Fire and energy 
transformations, 
especially transforming 
biological beings into 
beings of pure energy. 
He is symbolised by a 
burning brand, often in 
the shape of a fiery Ankh, 
as he was worshipped in 
the lost Empire of Nithia. 
In the early years of the 

Symbol of Rathanos Nithian Empire, worship 

of Rathanos was 
widespread but mostly constrained to elite 
circles of scholars, priests, mages, alchemists 
and people attracted by the dream of 
transformation into "Beings of Fire" (or Light). 
The mysterious Magian Fire Worshippers, who 
forged alliances with beings in the Elemental 
Plane of Fire, were always in close albeit a bit 
uneasy contact with followers of Rathanos. 
Only the more militant branches had more 
cooperation. 



After the destruction of Nithia, a mystical 
branch of the cult of Rathanos was spared on 
the Isle of Dawn, but other more energetic 
and aggressive tendencies remained as 
undercurrents. The most important of these 
branches had its origins in the Thanegioth 
Archipelago during the Nithian era. It 
emerged around the mysterious figure of the 
Firelord in 1600-1500 BC. Those events are 
described in the next section. This section 
describes briefly the canons of this sect. 

After the fall of Nithia, the cult of Rathanos 
around the area of former Nithia was linked 
to many nationalistic or even anti-colonialist 
concerns. Initially the Thothian followers of 
Rathanos harboured a bitter hatred towards 
the Alphatian Empire due to its colonial 
overlordship. Later on, when Thyatis 
emerged, the (literal) flames of this hatred 
were fanned by many Alphatian-Thyatian 
struggles that ravaged the homelands of the 
Thothians. In the Alasiyan basin of the 
present-day Ylaruam, the centuries of colonial 
wars between Alphatia and Thyatia would 
feed this anti-colonial attitude among the few 
persecuted followers of Rathanos and the 
dangerous Magian Fire Worshippers. 
Although most of the knowledge regarding 
the Nithian-era Firelord had been lost, 
scattered remarks in their scriptures about 
"the Fiery Pharaoh" would eventually spark 
ideas about re-establishing a power base for 
more militant worship of Rathanos. This is 
the general religious basis for this campaign 
scheme. 

According to two important and ancient 
books, The Fiery Scriptures and The Dogmas 
of Ouroboros, Rathanos is aided in this world 
by an important ally the Starfire Sphere, who 
is said to reside among the stars with its 
strange breed of fire vampires. (Inspired by 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G Eivipine of tfje FinelonO 




the entity Cthugha created by August Derleth.) 
The Starfire Sphere is Rathanos's "right arm" 
in Mystara, his tool for influencing 
developments in this world. But the Starfire 
Sphere holds also a greater promise. Every 
2500 years or so "the Stars are Right", and the 
Starfire Sphere has a rare chance of 
channelling a vast amount of power to a single 
follower of Rathanos in this world. This would 
make the follower into the Nexus, a being 
who has powers over the Element of Fire 
equalling those of the highest elemental 
rulers. Such an individual could create a 
lasting Reign of Fire where Rathanos would 
be the most important deity. The previous 
time of ascension was during the rule of the 
Nithian-era Firelord; the next is circa 1000 
AC. 



Starfire Sphere is a very powerful entity 
that appears in this world very rarely, only 
during the successful Ritual of Ascension, 
as a multilayered, semi-transparent sphere 
of flames. It is an ally of sorts for Rathanos, 
but only indirectly, by being able to channel 
power for powerful cultists. Those cultists 
are the concrete tools for Rathanos's works. 
In itself the Starfire Sphere is a chaotic, 
unpredictable entity with little concern for 
matters in this world. It may even be that 
the whole Ritual of Ascension is little more 
than a lure for the unfathomable Sphere, 
and becoming a Nexus is more a side-effect 
than a conscious act by the Sphere. Or 
perhaps the Sphere is even connected to 
the Outer Beings in some way, and the 
gathering of the Nexus candidates has a 
deeper purpose that Rathanos cannot grasp 
from his "merely" Immortal perspective. 



In the scriptures of the Cult of the Starfire 
Sphere, this event is called the Ascension of 
Nexus. It is said that during the Ascension, 
the Starfire Sphere will descend from the 
heavens, warping the very fabric of reality and 
bringing its stellar home with it to touch the 
mortal lands. A new star will be born in its 
home constellation to mark the birth of a new 
Nexus. It is thought that every star in the 
constellation represents Nexuses that have 
Ascended in other worlds. But until now, 
nobody has succeeded to Ascend in Mystara 1 . 

Essentially, the Cult of the Starfire Sphere is 
a millenarian (2 Vi millenarian, to be exact) 
cult. During the long years between the times 
that "the Stars are Right", the cult is virtually 
non-existent, if one doesn't count the 
occasional mad prophet or a crazed follower 
who tries desperately to extend his/her life in 
order to be alive during the next Ascension. 
During the final century before the time of 
Ascension the cult is revitalised, as powerful 
individuals within the main cult of Rathanos 
start gathering followers and try to find a good 
area for the Ascension Ritual. One major 
requirement for the Ritual is that the area 
where it is performed has some powerful links 
to the Plane of Fire - volcanic areas are often 
preferred. The constant volcanic activity in 
the largest island of the Thanegioth 
Archipelago must have been what originally 
drew the first Firelord there. 

In order to complete the ritual, the Nexus 
candidate has to be an accomplished cleric of 
Rathanos or a Fire Mage. Also, summoning 
the Starfire Sphere and its constellation down 
from the heavens requires a lot of power, 
inaccessible to any single individual. Thus the 
candidate has to gather a large amount of 

1 In the Cthugha stories the constellation is Piscis 
Austrinus, and the home of Cthugha is the star Fomalhaut. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e Eivipine of tlie Finelont) 




followers, both mages and clerics. This 
gathering of power is at the core of the Cult 
of the Starfire Sphere. 

The Ritual of Ascension will take place in a 
carefully prepared location, where both 
natural and artificial fire-related power points 
are needed. The cultists will gather in 
concentric circular formations described by 
the Fiery Scriptures, channelling power for the 
Nexus candidate. Each of them has to undergo 
strict rituals of purification for weeks or 
months on end before attending. If some 
cultists cannot be present, they must be 
replaced with magical power beacons crafted 
for just this purpose. Only a certain (small) 
percentage of the cultists may be replaced 
thus, so killing enough of them beforehand 
will stop the Ritual. Another chance to stop 
the ritual is to kill enough cultists during their 
incantations, which will disturb the 
channelling of power. 

In accordance with the nature of the Ritual of 
Ascension, the Cult will organise itself in 
hierarchical Spheres of Influence - the Nexus 
candidate being at the centre of several co- 
centric circles of cultists. One's place in these 
spheres dictates both political power and 
access to the secrets of the cult. During its 
history, the cult has developed secret crafts 
similar to those of the Glantrian Fire 
Elementalists. 

The Cult often forms alliances with various 
fire-based creatures like efreeti, fire 
salamanders, red dragons and fire giants. 
Through these alliances they can gain 
protection and important resources required 
in the Ritual (rare ingredients and such) . The 
allied fire-creatures are promised a better 
future within the coming Reign of Fire. But 
there are some beings that are bitter enemies 
of these traditional allies, like the Sollux and 



Use the ones in the Glantri Gazetteer, but 
substitute the highest craft with the ability 
of the Nexus candidate to attempt the 
Ascension. Optional: If you don't like the 
idea that both clerics and mages can learn 
these crafts, you can make the Fire-Mages 
the most influential group. The mages form 
the Spheres of Influence, being the only 
ones able to attempt the Ascension. The 
Clerics of Rathanos function as a support 
structure, preferring "direct" worship of 
Rathanos. This might even cause schisms 
within the cult. This is just a matter of taste 
and doesn't affect the scenario significantly. 



the Helions who hate the efreeti. Anyone 
opposing the Cult will find willing allies 
there. 

Notes on important enemy NPCs: In order 
to set the power-level of the campaign, the 
DM should prepare the Spheres of Influence 
within the cult of the Firelord beforehand. 
The leader is of course the Firelord Daricus 
himself. In my campaign he was a level 18 
Mage, with two high-level subordinates on 
the next sphere, four on the next, eight on 
the next et cetera. The amount and the 
respective levels and classes of the cultists is 
important in setting the right level of 
challenge for the whole campaign. However, 
6th level mages and priests are important 
battle specialists, and the Firelord should 
have a large amount of them at his disposal. 
An example of the organisational structure 
of a very powerful Cult might be: 

Firelord (18th) 

1st Circle (14th) x2: High Priest of Rathanos, 
Director of the School of Magic 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e Eivipine of tlie Finelont) 




2nd Circle (12th) x4: Leader of the Navy, 
Leader of the Home Army, Leader of 
Expeditionary Forces, and Spymaster 

3rd Circle (10th) x 8: Commanders of large 
military units, Head teachers, Senior Priests 

4th Circle (8th) xl6: Local Commanders, Spies, 
Teachers, and Elite Battle Mages 

5th Circle (6th) x 32: Battle Mages and Priests 

Lower Circles: Uninitiated (1st to 5th level) 

NOTE: Because especially the inner-circle 
cultists are needed in the Ritual, they will 
always have some resources for escape and 
will not willingly fight to the death. This will 
make things a lot easier for the PCs, as 
otherwise the presence of fairly high-level 
spellcasters might be too much for them. 

ANcieNt Histoirp of ttje 
'CliaNeqiotli Aucliipelago 

There are scattered legends about the origin 
of the Thanegioth Archipelago in the oral 
traditions of the Nuari people and the people 
inhabiting the Serpent peninsula to the west. 
Mostly these are, of course, just metaphoric 
stories. Some tribes tell the story of the Father 
of All Dragons, who reached the end of his 
days and crashed down. The fall created the 
Sea of Dread, and the Thanegioth Archipelago 
is said to be the remnants of his gargantuan 
body. It may well be that these legends are 
transformed memories of the Great Rain of 
Fire, the destruction of Blackmoor, and the 
time Brun and Davania were violently ripped 
apart, forming the Sea of Dread. However, the 
islands have always been the home for a host 
of Red Dragons and Sea Dragons. 

These beliefs are reflected in the languages of 
some Nuari tribes of the Serpent peninsula. 
The southern island chain of the peninsula, 



the one "reaching" towards Thanegioth 
Archipelago, is called in some of their 
languages "Than-e-gia" (the tongue of the 
serpent). The southern large island is "Than- 
e-gil" (the head of the serpent), and 
Thanegioth could be "Than-e-gia-othi" (the 
flame tongue/fiery spit of the serpent). Thus, 
the Serpent peninsula is mythically pictured 
as a large fire-breathing dragon. 

The dragon peoples inhabiting the 
Archipelago hold similar legends. Just to the 
north of the Archipelago there's a large reef 
called the Dragon Reef due to its peculiar 
shape. The Sea Dragons are convinced that 
the reef was born from the body of their 
ancient predecessor, who fought the Father 
of All Reds. The Reds, in turn, see the middle 
group of islands in the Archipelago as the 
bones of their forefather (although the term 
might also be "Mother"). In both versions, 
the dragons killed each other. 

In any case, these various mythic histories of 
the Thanegioth Archipelago picture 
cataclysmic encounters with the elements of 
Fire and Water, and this can't be coincidental. 
Especially the eastern islands have strong 
connections to the Plane of Fire, and in the 
waters surrounding the Archipelago there are 
various powerful wormholes. One of them 
manifests as a large whirlpool, which travels 
to and fro in the waters south of the Isle of 
Dread. The Sea Dragons refer to it as "the 
Home-Song Fountain"; seafaring humans call 
it "the Whirlpool of Lost Hope". The dragons 
live within or close to the whirlpool and can 
direct its movements to some extent. 

Some notes on the various migrations to 
Thanegioth: The red dragons and the sea 
dragons are the earliest inhabitants of the 
islands and the surrounding waters. The elves 
of the western island. The Children of the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Eivipine of tlje FinelonO 
rm 





Swan, were the next to arrive. Stories of their 
history suggest that they were a splinter group 
originating in the great divide between the 
elves of Grunland and Vulcania, and that they 
took to the seas after reaching the southern 
shore of the Sea of Dread. The arrival of the 
rakasta on the Island of Dread is shrouded in 
the mist of history: they believe that their 
patron the Great Lion brought them to live 
here in peace. The final waves of migration 
were by the Nuari. 

Eua of t^e Fiust FiuelouD, 
or ttje Fieirp Ptiauaoli 

The first Firelord was originally a member of 
a ruling family in Nithia. He was also an 
accomplished mage and obsessed with Fire 
magic of all kinds. Around 1600-1500 BC, 
amongst a wave of radicalising Rathanos- 
worship, he stumbled upon the secret of the 
Nexus. Perhaps he learned this from the 
various elemental beings he summoned and 
bound, or during his travels in the Elemental 
Plane of Fire. During this time he also 
understood that he didn't have a chance of 
becoming a pharaoh and that his life might 
even be in danger. The Ritual of Ascension 



might offer a way of overcoming these 
obstacles. 

Later on, with a group of trusted followers 
from the Magian Fire Worshippers, clerics of 
Rathanos and some obscure fire elementalist 
sects, he retreated to the Thanegioth 
Archipelago. In his studies he had found out 
about the powerful presence of the Element 
of Fire in some of the islands and decided to 
construct the Ascension platform there. 
Essentially, this signalled the birth of the Cult 
of the Starfire Sphere on Mystara. 

Arriving in the Thanegioth Archipelago, the 
Nithian mage assumed the title of the 
Firelord, or the Fiery Pharaoh. He started 
building his own little empire in the middle 
of the Sea of Dread. His seat of power was 
on the easternmost, largest island. He forged 
alliances with the efreeti and the fire giants 
living in the volcanic western region of the 
island, and befriended the red dragons of the 
central Archipelago. Together they completed 
a wonderful construction, the Plateau of Fire. 
It is an artificial plateau raised by diverting 
magma to the bottom of the island. 
Permanent wormholes were created there 
and were made controllable by complex 
rituals and incantations described by the 
sacred texts mentioned above - the Firelord 
himself wrote these. In the centre of the 
plateau is a dome-shaped temple of the 
Starfire Sphere, specially crafted for the ritual 
of Ascension. 

Rise aNb Fall of tlie FiuelouD's 
EMpiue aNb tlie Lion Kinq 
Rak'Asta 

When the Fiery Pharaoh started expanding 
his hatchling empire to the western islands, 
his forces met with opposition. The ancestors 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e Eivipine of ttje Finelont) 
m 





Bust of King Rak'Asta 

of the present-day rakastae lived on the Isle of 
Dread. At that time they resembled weretigers 
and lived in a highly advanced society that 
centred on the worship of their patron the 
Lion. The cultural centre was on the plateau 
in the northern part of the island, where their 
king Rak'Asta led them. (For the purposes of 
this campaign, there isn't the society of koprus 
from XI, and the plateau is very different in 
any case.) When the minions of the Fiery 
Pharaoh invaded the island, Rak'Asta managed 
to make alliances with the Children of the 
Swan and the remaining Sea Dragons, who 
had been beaten to submission by the Reds in 
several draconic wars. It is told that some 
groups of Sollux warriors and Helions joined 
them also, as their main enemies the efreeti 
were on the side of the Fiery Pharaoh. 

The armies of Rak'Asta defeated the invasion 
force, and with great cunning he made a spike 
assault on the isle of the Fiery Pharaoh. 
Rak'Asta stopped the Ritual of Ascension and 
killed the Firelord in a duel. Later on he took 
the battle to the islands of the red dragons and 



killed their leader, an ancient red, but was 
also slain. The duel decimated an entire 
island, the Farthest Shore (a reference to 
Ursula le Guin's Earthsea books). Since then 
the scorched island has been a taboo to the 
Nuari, a sacred place for the Reds, and 
forgotten by the other inhabitants of the 
Archipelago. 

After the war the Sea Dragons withdrew 
beneath the waves, where they still live, in 
the great whirlpool, waiting for the rise of 
the next Firelord. The proud ancestors of the 
rakastae fell from grace of their patron and 
"diminished", transformed into the feline 
creatures we know. The Children of the Swan 
withdrew to their island, limiting their 
shipping to short fishing expeditions, 
centring instead on nursing their Relic, an 
ancient figurine of a swan. (They can't have 
a Tree of Life, as Ilsundal created them much 
later.) The local Nuari slowly assimilated the 
followers of the first Firelord. The creatures 
of fire remained but kept close to the 
volcanoes of the easternmost island, and 
thrived on the deserted Plateau of Fire. 

The Artifacts of Rak'Asta: The great king 
Rak'Asta succeeded in his efforts not only due 
to his own cunning, but also because he had 
two very powerful artifacts in his possession. 
His sword "the Dragon-tooth" was crafted 
from the tooth of an ancient Sea Dragon and 
enchanted with powers against red dragons. 
(For example: Sword +3, +5 Against dragons, 
Triple damage against red dragons. Add other 
powers if you like.) "The Lion Helmet" was 
a helmet crafted to the likeness of a majestic 
lion, giving protection against the Element 
of Fire and enhancing the wearer's abilities 
of leadership and warfare. (For example: 
Extra -1 to AC, +2 to Fire Saves, Deduct 2dl0 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Cfje EMpine of tlie Finelont) 




from Fire breath damage, Skill bonuses to 
leadership and tactics/strategy.) 

When the king Rak'Asta went to battle the 
ancient red dragon, he left his helmet, the 
symbol of the king, for his followers. They 
brought it back to the Isle of Dread, where it 
was left in the palace on the plateau, waiting 
for the Future king. (Nobody knows it, but 
Rak'Asta was allowed by his patron to leave a 
small portion of his soul in the helmet. If 
someone gains it, the next wearer's soul will 
meld with Rak'Asta's, permanently 
transforming him.) The sword is still in the 
decimated island, beneath the bones of the 
king and the dragon. 

HY)Q Rise of ttje SgconD FirgIorD 

The Isle of Dawn has been a skirmishing 
ground of the Alphatian and Thyatian Empires 
for many generations. Years ago a man of 
Thothian origins called Daricus lost his whole 
family in one of the most intensive conflicts in 
recent history. Daricus developed a strong 
hatred towards both Empires and their 
colonial policies, and began dreaming of 
revenge. He had also embarked on a path of 
magical learning and proved to be a talented 
student, albeit a bit prone to hasty and rash 
decisions and dangerous experiments. He was 
sure that magical learning could give him the 
tools to strike back at his enemies. 

Travelling repeatedly across the shifting 
borderlands of the Isle of Dawn, he contacted 
various groups and individuals that held 
similar views. He offered his (still humble) 
magical abilities to local resistance groups, 
which brought him respect and friendship 
among those people. During this time he met 
various Followers of Fire, magic-users of the 
underground Alphatian sect, and found their 
trust in the Element of Fire appealing. In time 





The Firelord performing the Ascension Ritual 

he rose among their ranks and gathered a 
small following of trusted henchmen whom 
he convinced to join him in his search for 
power and revenge. 

Together they travelled to the mainland, to 
Ylaruam, where Daricus learned of outlawed 
and persecuted sect of Magian Fire 
Worshippers. He set out to find them and 
succeeded, and after some years of 
adventuring he had also gained contacts and 
friends in the Cult of Rathanos. Their 
learnings persuaded him to join the followers 
of the Fiery Ankh as a layman follower - but 
his knowledge and skill with fire magic gave 
him an exalted position, one of a religious 
scholar. In this role he stumbled upon 
fragmented remarks about the previous 
Firelord, the Starfire Sphere, and the mystical 
Ascension. Elements of them were found in 
the writings of all groups that he has 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Eivipme of ttje Finelont) 




contacted, as the nearing time of Ascension 
rejuvenated old memories. These were 
however merely hints, and Daricus set out on 
a quest to find the way to become the new 
Firelord and the Nexus of Starflre Sphere. Little 
is known about these travels among Nithian 
ruins, in the strange Plane of Fire and even 
among the circles of the Fire Elementalists in 
Glantri. 

By 975 Daricus had found enough information 
to start serious studies on the Ascension. He 
formed the Cult of the Starflre Sphere again, 
gathered his allies and set out looking for the 
lands of the first Firelord in the Sea of Dread. 
His initial following consisted of a few 
Glantrian Followers of Fire, members of the 
Alphatian underground, some Magian Fire 
Worshippers, and most of all, a great number 
of Rathanos cultists. Together they started the 
perilous journey to find the mysterious 
Thanegioth Archipelago, hinted at only in the 
tales of deranged seamen. The arduous voyage 
claimed the lives of some of them, but in the 
end they made landfall in the easternmost and 
the largest island of the Archipelago, which 
they named The Isle of the Firelord. 

Initially Daricus and his followers were friendly 
with the local Nuari villagers, joining their 
communities and gaining respect by their use 
of magic. But over the next few years, in total 
secrecy, the cultists travelled to various lands 
seeking new recruits to their anti-colonial 
army. These voyages were disguised as 
expeditions, merchant voyages and such to 
avoid suspicion. It is perhaps the best proof 
of Daricus's immense talent that the 
intelligence forces of the two empires never 
learned about this. Daricus gathered a sizable 
force of people who had good reasons to hate 
one of the empires, or both of them: Ylari 
militants (although few of them would join a 



Fire-mage), mercenaries from Helskir, 
Heldanners, Hinterlanders, members of 
various opposition groups of Thyatian and 
Alphatian colonies, and people from the Isle 
of Dawn. 

The next step was to subjugate the Nuari 
tribes. They were reduced to the status of 
slaves and were forced to start building the 
infrastructure of the new Empire of the 
Firelord. Daricus also made contact with the 
fire giants and the efreeti living of the western 
parts of the island, as his predecessor had 
done. Having thus consolidated his power 
on the main island of the Archipelago, 
Daricus could now focus on unearthing the 
lost lore of the Starflre Sphere. With the help 
of the efreeti he found the ruins of the ritual 
site on the Plain of Fire and the founding 
tracts of the cult (see above). Rebuilding work 
was started immediately, as was the research 
and education to recreate the Spheres of 
Influence of the cult that are necessary for a 
successful ritual of Ascension. 

To do all this, Daricus would need much 
more resources, however. Also he was eager 
to start striking at his enemies. A fleet of 
raiding ships was built, and it was sent to raid 
Thyatian shipping lines to gather supplies 
and much-needed slaves. His other ships 
smuggled zzonga-plant to Alphatia in order 
to gather vital magical supplies and to disrupt 
that empire too. This allowed Daricus to 
begin further projects: plantations, fortresses, 
barracks, irrigation systems, a small town, 
and most of all, a school of wizards on the 
main island. He established the laws of his 
Empire of Fire and created efficient chains of 
command with the members of the Cult 
functioning as the secret police and as the 
supreme commanders. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Cl7e Eivipme of tlie Finelonfc 
m 




Following the example of the Fiery Pharaoh, 
Daricus started expanding his empire to the 
rest of the archipelago. He befriended the red 
dragons of the central archipelago, and then 
conquered the Nuari territory on the southern 
tip of the Isle of Dread. He also managed to 
contact the witch Darwa living on the 
westernmost islands. This is the situation when 
the PCs arrive on the scene. 



SCENARIO OVERVIEW 

The assumption is that the PCs are sent to 
disrupt or to stop the Firelord's plans - initially 
without the knowledge about him and with 
the assumption that there is just a base of 
pirates somewhere in the Sea of Dread. There 
are other ways to use this campaign material, 
but this text has been ordered into a sequence 
of "Acts" that allows a prospective DM to use 
it more readily. It should be noted that any 
such ordering into pre-set sequences by 
necessity involves some clumsy railroading, 
and I encourage DMs to tailor this campaign 
to suit their needs and more free play. 



T:iMGliNe 

3000 BC: Birth of Thanegioth Archipelago 
and the strong connection to the Planes of 
Fire and Water. The arrival of the Red and 
Sea Dragons. 

Unknown: Arrival of the elves of the 
Children of the Swan Clan 

Unknown: Arrival of the ancestors of the 
rakastae 

Unknown: Arrival of the Nuari 

c. 1600-1500 BC: Nithian colonists arrive 
and found the realm of the Fiery Pharaoh, 
the First Firelord. 

1500 BC: The King RakAsta kills the First 
Firelord and stops the Ritual of Ascension 

1499 BC: RakAsta dies in combat with the 
Ancient Red Dragon 

1000 BC: Alphatian Landfall. The few 
members of the Fire sect learn about the 
Cult of Rathanos. 

Unknown: The people of Rak'Asta fall from 
grace. 

500 BC: Fall of Nithia 

900 AC: Knowledge of the Cult of Starfire 
Sphere is slowly rejuvenated among the 
Magian Fire Worshippers, the cult of 
Rathanos, the Fire Elementalists and the 
underground Alphatian Fire Sect. 

950 AC: Daricus is born. 

960 AC: Daricus loses his family. 

965 AC: Daricus begins learning magic and 
becomes involved in resistance movements. 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e Eivipine of trje Finelonfc 




970 AC: Daricus travels to Brun (Ylaruam 
and eventually Glantri) and into the Plane 
of Fire. 

975 AC: Daricus gathers his followers and 
travels to the Thanegioth Archipelago. 

995 AC: Pirating and zzonga-smuggling 
begins. Slowly the Thyatian authorities are 
alerted, but the identity of the raiders 
remains unknown. 

997-1000 AC: Pirating attacks increase in 
frequency and severity. Problems with 
zzonga grow worse in Alphatia. 

1000 AC: Today. 



The Ascension Ritual is of course the main plan 
of Daricus the Firelord. The DM should 
determine a set time for the ritual beforehand 
to give the PCs a sense or urgency and a real 
possibility of failure. It should be noted, 
however, that failing to stop the Firelord is 
pretty much a campaign-stopper, unless the 
DM wants to take things to a whole new level. 
To complete the ritual Daricus will have to 
meet the following requirements: 1) A 
sufficient amount of educated and purified 
cultists must be arranged in the circular 
formation mentioned earlier. 3) The Ritual 
Dome must be completed on the Plain of Fire. 
3) The research into the key elements of the 
ritual, mainly the obligations of the Nexus 
candidate, has to be finished. (Note: Again, it 
is up to the DM to decide this, as the amount 
and power of spell-casters will largely 
determine the difficulty of the campaign. See 
above the section on the Cult.) 



The second primary part of Daricus's plans 
consists of exacting revenge on the two 
Empires. Because Daricus is rash and 
impatient, he has started this part before 
ascending to Nexushood. He wasn't content 
with the few raids and smuggling operations 
necessary to fund his enterprises. He has 
ordered the construction of a powerful navy, 
augmented with ingenious fire-based war 
machines and other resources, which will 
make it possible to strike at Thyatian navy 
harder. Such devices may be mundane, such 
as fire ships, catapults and ballistae shooting 
fiery missiles, flaming oil on waves etc. They 
may also be magical or "scientific": fireball- 
shooting battle mages, lenses and mirrors 
that can use sunlight to ignite sails, exploding 
ballista missiles, etc. The ships sail under 
banners depicting concentric circles of fire 
on dark green background. 




Flag of Daricu's Fleet 



Daricus's fleet strikes against the Thyatians 
on various fronts. They disrupt operations 
on the Hinterland front by sinking supply 
ships and giving weapons to rebels. They raid 
Ochalean shipping lines, leaving behind clues 
of Alphatian pirates and atrocities. They also 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G Eivipine of tlje FinelonO 
m 




sink supply and merchant vessels close to the 
mainland Thyatis. Against Alphatia the plans 
are subtler: Daricus has constructed various 
magical greenhouses, where zzonga is 
cultivated, and then it is shipped to Alphatian 
waters and sold very cheap. This has created 
serious problems. (Note: Use of zzonga in the 
Empire of Firelord is punished by immolation 
in a lava stream.) 

Although Daricus has managed to cause a lot 
of damage, his premature attacks have drawn 
the attention of the two empires. It would have 
been wiser to wait until the Ascension - as the 
Nexus Daricus could have commanded 
enough power to take on the Empires more 
directly and forcefully. 

The armies of the Firelord also continue their 
conquest of the Thanegioth Archipelago. On 
Isle of Dread they make alliances with the local 
lizard men and the aranea as a preparation for 
an impending assault on the local rakasta 
population. Crack troops will also make 
landfall on the western island of the sea elves, 
starting their operation by building a palisade 
fortress on the northern beaches. The landing 
force is augmented by the battle mages to keep 
the elves at bay. The elven operation is 
advancing on another front, too. The Sea 
Witch, who has been promised a large part of 
the elven island, uses her powers to curse and 
darken the westernmost elven jungles, 
spawning "vegetation monsters" and dark 
imps. 

Also, the small island north of the island of the 
sea elves has been fortified, in order to secure 
Thanegioth from a possible northern assault: 
the chain of small islands northwards to the 
mainland make it a more likely direction of 
attack than the empty reaches of the Sea of 
Dread. 



Act i : DiscoveuiNQ ttje EMpiue 
of ttje FiueloRD 

The PCs are contacted either by the Thyatian 
or the Alphatian authorities, which want to 
stop the pirating raids or the zzonga trade. 
Both sides have strong reasons to believe that 
the culprits are hiding somewhere in the Sea 
of Dread. "The First Tower" is the first and 
the most likely point of contact. 

Act 2: SaviNQ ttje Elves aNb 
battliNQ tne Sea WitcH 

The elves living on Kulan-Gath (Isle of the 
King) are attacked by the forces of the 
Firelord and the evil being summoned by the 
seawitch Darwa. If the PCs save the elves, they 
gain allies and learn about the Isle of Dread. 

Act 3: Legacy of Rak'Asta 

The forces of the Firelord and their allies are 
threatening the rakastae of the Isle of Dread. 
If the PCs help the rakastae, they can learn 
about the legend of RakAsta and gain a 
powerful artifact, the Lion Helmet. The Nuari 
villages may have to be liberated. 

Act 4: TlieRe Be DuaqoNS 

In order to reach the Isle of Firelord, the PCs 
will have to cross the realm of the Red 
Dragons. They are not yet under the 
Firelord's sway, but they have promised to 
protect the Isle of Firelord against intruders. 
However, there are also the Sea Dragons, 
thought to be lost long ago. They will contact 
the PCs and help them to find RakAsta' s 
sword "the Dragon's Tooth" in exchange for 
help against the Reds. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Clie Eivipine of tl7e Finelont) 
m 




ACt 5: ARRIVINQ ON ttjC ISlC Of 

ttje FiReloRD 

The Sea Dragons help the PCs get to the 
western shore of the Isle of the Firelord. They 
perhaps fight the Fire Giants and need to 
breach the mountain fortress to gain access to 
the rest of the island. 

Act 6: DisRuptiNQ ttje Ritual Of 

ASCCNSION 

This is the highpoint of the whole campaign 
and the most dangerous task for the PCs. 
Killing Daricus is hard and may be impossible, 
surrounded as he is by all his most important 
followers. However, killing enough of them 
will break the ritual and make it impossible to 
try it again until 2,500 years. 

ACt 7: CjCttiNQ llOMC? 

It would be hopeless for the PCs to take on 
the Firelord's armies themselves, so the next 
task is to get home and alert the authorities. 
This is an open-ended part of the campaign. 
The cities, camps, harbours and other locales 
of the Isle of Firelord are not fleshed out, as 
the PCs may very well still have their own ship 
and won't need to bother with them. 

There are many other ways that this campaign 
can be used. An important feature of the 
campaign is the moral ambiguity of Daricus. 
He is not your run-of-the-mill evil villain: he 
has a cause, and in some ways a just one, but 
his methods are vicious and he is willing to 
kill and enslave others to achieve his goals. 
One possibility is an insurrection among the 
slaves or the Nuari locals and the quest to find 
allies for an all-out rebellion. The PCs might 
even be allies or minions of the Firelord in 
their fight against the Evil Empires. In the latter 
case the Ritual of Ascension is harder to tie 
into the story. 



ACC I : DISCOVERING 'CHE 
EMPIRE OF CHE 
FIRELORD 

The PCs are hired to investigate the latest 
series of pirate attacks by agents of Thyatia 
or Alphatia. There should be enough hints 
available to point to the Sea of Dread, perhaps 
an inkling of the fire-related attacks, but 
nothing leading directly to the Thanegioth 
Archipelago. The PCs are furnished with a 
ship and a crew, and their first task is to 
scourge the seaside nations for clues. The 
DM can furnish them with legends, hints, 
partial maps, logs etc. Eventually they are led 
towards the Archipelago via the Dragon's 
Teeth Reef, so the first contact with the forces 
of the Firelord will be on the island called 
"the First Tower" ("Eth-Salar" by the southern 
elves) . 



OPTIONAL: The DM can include an 
agent of the Firelord who tries to infiltrate 
the ship's crew. The agent would definitely 
try to lure the PCs deep into the 
Archipelago and then try to betray them. 
IMC I had a similar mole among the crew, 
but he was an agent of the Iron Ring trying 
to get back at the PCs for destroying the 
organisation. The mole lured the ship of 
the PCs to the enemy while they were 
gone, which spiced up the events on the 
Isle of Dread. (I was inspired in this by 
Jules Verne's Captain Grant book and the 
character Ayrton.) 



"The First tower" is an island about 180 miles 
north from the northernmost tip of the elven 
island. Firelord had a strong fortress built 
here to guard the secret sea routes to the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 




north. The fortress is a simple tall keep that 
houses ballistae and catapults that are able to 
fire fiery ammo. The cliffs of the island are 
steep, allowing only one landfall that can be 
defended easily. This is the only freshwater 
island in these parts, so most likely the PCs 
cannot simply bypass it. The commander is a 
4th Circle Commander aided by two 5th Circle 
battle-spellcasters. There is a garrison of elite 
troops (3rd level at least) and a host of trained 
Hellhounds. 

If the PCs defeat the garrison, they find 
evidence of the Empire of the Firelord, and 
from the diaries of the cultists they find notes 
about the coming Ritual. The Cultists at the 
fort won't be able to attend (they are replaced 
by power-beacons), and they complain about 
this in their notes. This should create the 
much-needed sense of urgency. The PCs will 



also find local sea charts that lead them to 
the island of the elves. 

ACC 2: SAVINQ 'CHE 
ELVES AND BACCLINC; 
CHE SEA WICCH 

The elves call their island "Kulan-Gath", the 
Island of the King. The vegetation is more 
diverse than on the other islands due to the 
influence of the elves. There are some plains, 
some thick jungle, and some more elvish 
forest. The eastern part of the island is 
dominated by the Elven Trees. There is one 
large sweet water lake, The Swan Lake, and 
a river leads from it to the gulf on the 
northern shores of the island. The shores of 
the gulf are sandy beaches, which have a 
golden tint. Thus the name, The Golden 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 




Beach. South of the gulf, after some stretches 
of forest, is the large Hoof Plain, the home of 
centaurs and chevalls. Towards the west the 
forests grow more dense and dark, until at the 
western cape they are sinister indeed. Some 
treants live in the slightly brighter areas. The 
elven clan the Children of the Swan lives in 
the eastern part of the island. There is also a 
community of flitterlings in the northern cape. 

Lately darkness has been spreading over the 
island. The dark western forests have been 
spawning terrible plant monsters that eat 
anything that moves. Good trees are dying, 
and bad ones stretch their roots over large 
areas. A violent and large tribe of Wood Imps 
has been taking over the forest, creeping 
eastward. Currently it is threatening the 
flitterlings and the treants. 



The Children of the Swan haven't been able 
to intervene, since they have their own 
problems. A while ago, Firelord's troops 
landed on the Golden Beach, began cutting 
down the trees and built a stockade. Now 
they are building a naval shipyard. Elves can't 
match the fiery magic of the Firelord's 
servants and the power of Rathanos's clerics, 
since the tribe isn't very large. The situation 
has worsened even more as the Sea Witch 
Darwa, an ally of the Firelord, has been 
sending her minions to harry the elves. 

The Sea Witch Darwa lives on the 
westernmost island of the Archipelago. The 
island is mostly barren, and she subsists on 
seaweed, gull eggs and mussels, living in a 
ramshackle hut. However, she is very 
powerful and should be a very dangerous 
opponent for the PCs. I suggest giving her 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Crje Eivipine of ttje FinelonO 




most of the Witchcraft powers in the Glantri 
Gazetteer, and perhaps some more. She uses 
her summoned creatures as commandos, 
through which she can channel her powers. 
Red Imps are her favourites. 

Most likely the PCs will contact the elves to 
get help against the troops of the Firelord. 
Those should include a commander or the 4th 
Circle, if not 3rd, and several 5th level Cultists, 
and a ship or three full of experienced 
marines. The PCs should definitely not be able 
to defeat them by themselves. The PCs can get 
help from the elves and the centaurs, but in 
order to get help from the treants and 
flitterlings they will have to defeat the Wood 
Imps and Darwa. 

The elves know about the Isle of Dread and 
know about a landing beach on the western 
shores of the island. The invasion force has 
some logs and charts that can give the PCs 
some idea about the extent of the Empire of 
the Firelord. They also learn that the Nuari 
villages in the Isle of Dread have been 
occupied. The elves know that in the distant 
past they used to be allied with the people of 
Rak'Asta and suggest the PCs contact them. 
They can also send one of their tribe, a skillful 
warrior named Cymoril Stargazer, to 
accompany the PCs. She is willing to take the 
fight to the lands of the Firelord. The clan can 
perhaps also offer some magic furnished by 
their Relic. 

ACC 3: LEQACy OF 
RAK'ASTA 

The classic module XI offers a ready-made 
map of the Island of Dread, and it can be used 
here with very few alterations. Some of the 
material in the module regarding the 
inhabitants of the island is also usable, with 
the exception of the plateau of the kopru. It 



has been replaced with the ruins of the 
civilization of Rak'Asta. 

The rakasta that now inhabit the island are 
of the standard rulebook breed, a 
"degenerated" version of the elder race. They 
live in primitive matriarchal tribes, where the 
female population lives in the villages, ruled 
by a strict caste system. The males wander 
the jungle, hunting and gathering food and 
other materials for the females. The latter are 
mainly engaged in crafts and rituals. One 
significant part of their culture is a religious 
program of breeding that casts out 
"deformed" children - much like the culture 
of the Shadow elves. Only, whereas Rafiel 
wishes to offset the effects of Radiance, in this 
case the children who show signs of their 
elder heritage are removed from the gene 
pool, speeding up the process that 
"animalises" the former were-like species. 
The ones cast out live in remote communities. 

The western jungles of the southern part of 
the island belong to the rakasta. The main 
village is ruled by a matriarch priest, who 
worships a distorted version of "the Lion god" 
(she still gets spells, though). The four male 
tribes, the Panthers, the Lions, the Tigers and 
the Sabretooths, have divided the jungle 
between themselves - although during the 
mating season the fights for the privilege get 
fierce, but seldom lethal. 

The lizard men live in the swamps and near 
the tar pits. The Firelord's local commander 
is currently trying to get them to attack the 
rakasta. 

To the west and to the north from the swamp 
is a region of forested hills, and the aranea 
live in the northernmost parts. They are 
already allies of the Firelord and have begun 
harassing the rakastae, especially by driving 
the more dangerous monsters into their lands. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e EMpine of tlie Finelont) 




Other inhabitants of the island include 
phanatons and bugbears, who fight each other 
sporadically, and the green dragon Abode. If 
the DM wishes, she or he can include more 
alliances and plans to the mix, but the ones 
described above should suffice. 

Tribes of Nuari, subjugated by the Firelord, 
live in the southern part of the island and the 
nearby islands. The easternmost village on the 
main island is the HQ of the occupation, with 
the harbour of the Fiery Navy and the largest 
garrison. Firelord' s troops man the Great Wall. 

There is a sizable contingent of the Firelord 's 
troops on the island. They are led by a 
high-ranking cultist of the 3rd Circle, a couple 
of 4th Circle envoys for contacting the other 
races and many 5th Circle combat specialists. 
The PCs definitely need the help of the rakasta 
to defeat them. In order to get their help they 
will first have to defeat the lizard men and the 
aranea, and perhaps they can incite a rebellion 
among the Nuari, who knows. But an 
important part of this Act is discovering the 
inheritance of RakAsta. Among the ruins on 
the plateau there is an ancient temple-palace. 
It is guarded by ferocious were-tigers, and 
many traps protect the treasure, Rak'Asta's 
Lion Helmet. Only fighters and similar classes 
can use it. If a PC wears the helmet, his or her 
soul merges with the soul of the king Rak'Asta, 
giving the ability to impress and command the 
present-day rakasta. The Helmet also gives its 
wearer awareness of the lost sword Dragon 
Tooth and its location, and the danger that the 
Red Dragons would pose it the Firelord 
manages to ally with them fully. 

If the PCs defeat the Firelord's forces, they 
learn more about the impending Ritual of 
Ascension and know that time is running short. 



ACC 4: THERE BE 
DRACJONS 

The central archipelago consists of the four 
islands of the Red Dragons, the waters of the 
Sea Dragons and the barren island "the 
Farthest Shore", where Rak'Asta and the 
ancient Red Dragon killed each other and 
where the sword of Rak'Asta awaits. 

The islands of the Red Dragons are of course 
very dangerous. The current leader of the 
dragons lives on "Death's Head" island. She 
is engaged in negotiations with the Firelord. 
Until now she hasn't agreed to place her kin 
under the Firelord's command, but the 
dragons allow his ships to move in this area 
unmolested. The dragons have also agreed 
to stop any foreign vessels, which will make 
these waters very dangerous for the PCs. They 
will be very soon chased or even attacked by 
dragons. 

However, the Sea Dragons can sense the 
approaching soul of Rak'Asta and will protect 
the PCs against their ancient enemies. This 
can be very frightening, as they can direct the 
Whirlpool to snatch their ship (the dragons 
can of course keep it safe). The Sea Dragons 
can take the PCs to a safe secret cove on the 
Island of the Firelord, if they agree to help 
them against the Red Dragons. 

The main part of this Act is the battle against 
the leader of the Red Dragons. The Sea 
Dragons can take the PCs to the Farthest 
Shore, where the PC wearing the Lion Helmet 
can wield the Dragon Tooth safely. The DM 
may wish to include some dangerous 
opposition, even the ghost of the dead 
dragon, to stand in their way. With the whole 
array or Rak'Asta's artifacts the PCs can take 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G Eivipine of tlie Finelono 
m 




on the leader of dragons. This should be a very 
dangerous and deadly conflict. 

ACC 5: ARRIVING ON THE 
ISLE OF THE FIRELORD 

Most likely the PCs will arrive on the western 
shores of the island, in the secret cove known 
by the Sea Dragons. The western part of the 
island is mountainous and mostly barren land, 
with the exception of some forested hills. In 
the rugged hills at the southern tip lives a tribe 



of Fire Giants, allies and friends of the 
Firelord, who patrol the roads south of the 
mountains. 

The mountain range blocks passages to the 
rest of the island except via a narrow pass 
that is blocked by a northern fortress. Fierce 
fire salamanders who survive here due to the 
presence of volcanoes inhabit the mountains. 
A few isolationist Red Dragons live here also. 
However, the PCs have also the chance of 
contacting a group of Sollux, who hide in this 
area. They are more than willing to aid them 




isle of tlie FiueioRb 




Stan t in i: &|>lj<-nv 



v v v : & 
V A : '?>' 

V V - V 

cove . «i W A 7* 




A ? ' ^: 

?»? I*. 



S zzowoa 
\ FlaKtatkme 

cjiy oA / , > ft 

Fine jU.  1 ' » 

^ Hanhcm of 

tljt Flcny Navy 



^ O 



CaMu 



u 

FiKt 

CiaKIs - 



M>N CaiVIN 30 ! 4 EU&CD Off Of AN 

eaniKm work vilie i^Wne 

utfm Qn^pljtc; (k^qmeO by UtrcmfiNN Tail 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G Eivipine of tl7e Finelonb 
m 




in the fight against the Firelord. They may also 
know a way to contact some Helions on the 
Plateau of Fire. 

A strong garrison, but not that many Cultists, 
mans the fortress as most of them are already 
engaged in purification in preparation for the 
Ritual. The PCs should still be opposed by 
some spell-casters also. The fortress is also a 
school for the cultist initiates, so a host of 
low-level cultists can offer dangerous 
opposition - the initiates will not be needed 
in the Ritual. In the school the PCs can find 
more info on the Ritual. 

There is a lava basin to the north. The initiates 
travel there to meditate and study the secrets 
of the Starfire Sphere. 

Note that there is a military training camp fairly 
close to the east, so things will become harder 
for the PCs if word gets out of their attack. 

ACT 6: DISRUPTING THE 
RITUAL OF ASCENSION 

The Plateau of Fire dominates the northern 
part of the island. It is a high artificial plateau 
with steep and razor-sharp cliffs of volcanic 
glass. A great dome-shaped temple has been 
built in the middle of the plateau. The only 
accessible path up is guarded by a huge bronze 
golem, which lets only members of the Cult 
to pass, if they utter the right incantations and 
make the right gestures. Many creatures of Fire 
prowl the Plain of Fire. Some of them are wild, 
some protect the temple, some may be allies 
against the Firelord (the Helions). 

How hard disrupting the Ritual of Ascension 
will be depends on the performance of the 
PCs this far: 1) what allies they have gathered 
to aid them and 2) how many high-level cultists 
they have managed to slay. If cultists have been 



replaced by "power-beacons", those will be 
easy to destroy during the Ritual. Killing the 
participants of the Ritual will also be fairly 
easy, as they have to focus on their 
incantations. Of course efreeti and other 
elemental allies of the Firelord protect the 
Ritual. 

The trouble is to get out alive after disrupting 
the Ritual and angering a host of experienced 
spell-casters. Let's hope the PCs have made 
plans. Getting into a fight with the Firelord 
would be deadly. However, Daricus will very 
likely just flee if the Ritual is disturbed. He 
knows his plans are finished: without the 
powers of the Nexus he will never prevail 
against the Empires. So maybe he will return 
some day with new plans. Of course the DM 
can also have him fight to the death, if 
preferable. 

ACT 7: (5ETCINC5 HOME? 

After the Ritual has been disrupted, it would 
be wise for the PCs to head home. It can be 
easy, if they still have a ship and a crew, and 
very hard otherwise. The best plan is to steal 
a ship and liberate some slaves as a crew, if 
their own ship is lost. In any case, the other 
locations of the Island of the Firelord are left 
for the DM to flesh out in case the adventure 
continues there. 

The eastern half of the island is dominated 
by jungle. However, the southernmost parts 
are grassy plains, where most of the grain for 
the Empire is being grown. The road that 
leads to the western fortress cuts through the 
jungle, and it is heavily guarded. In the 
jungle, near the northeastern shore, are the 
Temple of Rathanos and the centre of the 
Cult of the Starfire Sphere. Woe those foolish 
adventurers who decide to storm its gates. 





108 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Cl7e EMpine of the FinelonO 
m 




The only real city of the archipelago, the City 
of Fire, lies in the middle of the southern 
plains. It is a relatively large city, with a 
population consisting of enslaved Nuari and 
slaves captured in the pirate raids, and the 
"cosmopolitan" mix of Daricus's followers. 
Four roads lead out from the city. The 
northern one leads to the jungle and the 
western parts of the island. The northeastern 
road leads to heavily guarded zzonga 
plantations. The eastern one leads to the 



shore, and the harbour of the Fiery Navy, the 
shipyards and a small town. The western road 
leads to the main barracks and training 
grounds of the Firelord's army. Also, a smaller 
path leads to the south, ending in the 
southern tip. There is an isolate lighthouse, 
which is used to lead back the ships that sail 
for the Hinterland route, and for ships 
returning from pirate missions (they always 
take a detour). 



CALL FOR COKCRIBUriONS 



The Threshold editorial team invites all fans 
of the Mystara setting to submit 
contributions to the sixth issue of the 
magazine. 

We are looking especially for contribution 
fitting the theme of that issue - The 
Northlands. 

Proposal Deadline: May 31st, 2014 
Manuscript Deadline: October 31st, 2014 

Threshold accepts (and invites) the 
submission of extended or revised versions 
of works having appeared on The Piazza or 
the Vaults of Pandius. 

Contributions may include, but are not 
limited to, articles (short stories, short 
adventure modules, NPCs, historical 
treatises and timelines, geographical entries, 
new monsters and monster ecologies, etc.) 
and illustrations (portraits, maps, heraldry, 
illustrations, etc.) 



The Threshold editorial team strives for 
edition neutrality, but edition specific 
articles (e.g., conversions) are also 
accepted. 

Statistics for new monsters and NPCs may 
be included in articles (e.g., adventure 
modules, new monsters or NPCs) in any 
version of Dungeons & Dragons. The 
editorial team also offers help in providing 
conversions to some specific rules set 
(including BECMI/RC, 2nd Edition, 3rd 
edition/Pathfinder). However, they should 
be limited to the minimum ~ for most 
NPCs, it is sufficient to mention class, 
level, and alignment. For important NPCs, 
a one or two line stat block could be 
included. 

See inside back cover for submission 
guidelines. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



Maxiivie Beaulieu's Mystana 
rm 




For QuibC 
and Country I 

A Minrothad / Savage Tide / Freeport mashup 

my iTIystara 



My MyStaua is a column 
outlining the community's changes 
to the D&D Known World. In each 
installment, a different take on 
Mystara will be explored by a 
different member of the community. 



by Maxime Beaulieu 



First outlined by David Cook in the 1981 
Expert Set and adventure module XI: Isle 
of Dread, the Known World was expanded 
by Frank Mentzer in the 1984 Expert Set's 
revision. Bruce Heard became the setting's 
shepherd throughout the late 80s and 90s, 
overseeing development (and writing a 
couple) of the Gazetteer line, giving 
readers in-depth view of countries of the 
Known World. These were followed by the 
Dawn of the Emperors and Hollow World 
boxed sets, expanding from a single 
continent to the entire planet, inside and 
out. Bruce also developed Mystara through 
the Voyage of the Princess Ark and Known 
World Grimoire articles published in 
Dragon Magazine between 1990 and 1993. 
Much of that work was compiled into 
1993 's Champions of Mystara boxed set. 
The setting was further revised and brought 
over to AD&D 2nd Edition as the "Mystara" 
line in 1994. Official TSR support in-print 
of the setting ended in 1995. 



Caution : spoilers ahead! 

How do you create the ultimate 
swashbuckling campaign? Step one: don't 
hesitate to mix classic Mystara with great 
products and ideas from other sources, like 
the Savage Tide adventure path or Green 
Ronin's Freeport! Step two: do your research 
and read, listen, and watch every book, 
soundtrack, and movie you can on the genre. 
Step three: trust your players to create great 
character ideas, surprising plot twists and 
melodramatic story arcs. Mix well in a jug of 
Corser rum and you'll get a 115+ sessions, 
six year campaign that's taken its players from 
Harbortown to the Isle of Dread; from the 
haunted shores of Karameikos to the Hollow 
World. Get ready to defend Minrothad from 
its worst enemy: itself! For guild and country! 

Fair winds guildsmen! 

The article will focus on the use of various 
gaming sources used to create the theme, 
mood, and setting for a Minrothad-based high 
seas campaign. It revolves around Corser 
guildmaster Milton Drac unleashing a savage 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Maxiivie Beaulieu's Mystana 




tide of lycanthropy on the Sea of Dread to seize 
the highest prize: Immortality! Of course, the 
heroes affected not only Drac's evil plans but 
the GM's prepared campaign arc, and so I'll 
also be musing on how player action 
transformed a carefully plotted campaign into 
a character-controlled narrative. 

our srouy so far 

The campaign started in 313 Verdier 
reckoning, three years after the end of the 
Great War that saw mighty Alphatia sink 
beneath the waves. A band of young evems 
(the wealthy middle class of Minrothad) from 
Guild Corser were getting ready to become 
officers-in-training on the Radiant, under 
merchant-prince Verik Alexir. They got an 
introduction to the history of their guild, 
notably the simmering resentment between 
(human) Guild Corser and the elven guilds. 
Apparently the humans of Minrothad came 
down with a terminal case of lycanthropy a 
few centuries ago and the elves responded 
with something called the Silver Purge. So as 
the young officers-to-be ran around town, 
getting into trouble alongside the son and 
daughter of their captain, Vanthus and Lavinia, 
they also slowly discovered signs of a dark 
conspiracy involving the return of 
werecreatures, a pirate armada called the 
Crimson Fleet and a shadowy figure known as 
the Pirate King. They even started a fashion 
trend of Sind silks at the annual Saneer ball 
(not their last sartorial action. . .). 

Finally they left port on their maiden voyage. 
As they traveled through the ports of Thyatis, 
Ylaruam and the Isle of Dawn, they uncovered 
more signs of the manipulations of the Pirate 
King, most importantly that he seemed to be 
infecting the Crimson fleet with lycanthropy. 
They also came to believe this Pirate King to 



be none other than the wealthy Milton Drac, 
main contender to the recently vacated post 
of guildmaster of Corser and sponsor of a 
new lighthouse in Harbortown. Things came 
to a head when they learned Drac had just 
been elected as the head of Corser shortly 
before witnessing an invasion by a Crimson 
Fleet armada in the city of West Portage. 

That's when things got interesting. . . 

FREE PORTS AND 
HARBOR tOWNS: 
SOURCES AND 
INSPIRATIONS 

Readers with ranks in knowledge (gaming) 
will have recognized several different sources 
in my little overview of the Guild and 
Country! set-up. The initial idea for the game 
came from the desire to run a maritime 
campaign after reading the excellent Freeport 
adventures and city sourcebooks {Freeport: 
the City of Adventure, the Freeport Trilogy, 
Black Sails over Freeport) . 




Milton Drac's lighthouse temple 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Maxiivie Beaulieu's Mystana 




From the Freeport Trilogy, I gleaned the idea 
of Milton Drac as main antagonist, along with 
his plan to hide a sinister temple in a 
lighthouse. I kept his (successful) attempts to 
gain leadership over the city but changed his 
motivation into a more personal goal: this 
ex-buccaneer was on the path to Immortality, 
sponsored by Masauwu (who I modified 
slightly to be the dark reflection of Minroth, 
patron of the Guilds). Madness in Freeport 1 
also gave me a fun event, the ball where the 
players got to meet many of the movers and 
shakers of the campaign. I used the images of 
the various NPCs from the module to create 
little handouts to help the players handle the 
introduction of 15+ characters. The lighthouse 
would only get explored later in the campaign. 
In typical swashbuckling fashion, the players 
would infiltrate a convict chain-gang from a 
prison hulk (stolen from Black Sails. . . ) sent 
to work on the lighthouse. A clear example of 
rule No. 9 of swashbuckling: « It's getting back 
out again that's tricky » (we'll get back to those 
in a bit) . 

I then got my hands on the Savage Tide 
Adventure Path, published in Dungeon issues 
139 to 150. In this third and last AP published 
in the magazine, players seek to prevent the 
unleashing of a curse and sail to the mythic 
Isle of Dread. . .the actual XI The Isle of Dread!! 
Of course it had to be included in this 
campaign and that meant the whole thing had 
to take place in Mystara. From Savage Tide I 
extracted the immediate NPC circle around 
the characters: Van thus and Lavinia were 
childhood friends of the PCs. Vanthus was a 
bad-influence scoundrel and Lavinia the 
eventual patron once she inherited the family 
fortune. Vanthus would drift into becoming a 
pawn of Drac and play an integral part in the 

1 The second adventure in the Freeport Trilogy. 



death of his father, the PCs' start-of-campaign 
mentor. It also became obvious the Savage 
Tide curse would get folded into Drac's plot 
to spread chaos and entropy. 

So we had a villainous plot by the leader of 
the PCs' home town to spread madness across 
the seas, a cast of allies and enemies and a 
set of adventure modules to run. All I needed 
was a home base. 

a cjuild of one's own: 
placing; and fleshinc; 

Our THE HOME PORT 

I started by checking where other GMs had 
placed Sasserine. Some had used lerendi, but 

1 was never was a fan of the "Holiday resort" 
vibe the gazetteer gave that nation (although 
there's an excellent adaptation of Freeport 
in lerendi available in the Vaults of Pandius 2 
that was very tempting). Others suggested 
placing the starting point of the AP in 
Davania, but that continent felt a bit barren 
for my taste. Then I remembered my old Gaz 
9 The Minrothad Guilds. I went back and 
re-read the supplement and that's when 
everything fell into place. 

For those of you who've never read much on 
the Guilds, it's a mercantile plutocracy ruled 
over by a council of racially-aligned guilds. 
Guilds Elsan, Meditor and Verdier are the 
dominant elven guilds, with humans, dwarves 
and hin each controlling their own. The 
relative weakness of humans on the islands 
is explained by a plague of lycanthropy which 
devastated the Sea of Dread about three 
centuries ago. The elves culled the humans 
till the disease was mostly eliminated, and 
while the survivors reorganised into a single 

2 The Pirate Kingdom of lerendi (AM2) 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Maxiivie Beaulieu's Mystana 





Lycanthrope created by the Black Pearl 

guild the elves pretty much took control and 
set up the system of government. There you 
had it! The villain's plan fell into place. 
Through the Black Pearl, an artifact found on 
the Isle of Dread as part of his quest for 
Immortality, Milton Drac was to infect guild 
Corser with lycanthropy. Then Minrothaddan 
merchants would spread it across the seas, and 
either Thyatis would stop it in time by crushing 
the guilds to stop the plague or, if things went 
really well, most of the Known World would 
collapse into savagery. In either case Entropy 
would be served and Drac's Legacy would be 
assured. He also hired alchemists to refine 



fragments of the Black Pearl into a lesser 
version of the disease, a bestial curse (as seen 
in The Bullywug Gambit) which the PCs 
dubbed "the anger goo". This ooze could be 
spread more easily, tainting water supplies 
and even dispersed through precipitation. 
The pirates of the Crimson Fleet were also 
part of this plan: they were to be Drac's 
werecreature shock troops, a fleet of pitiless 
and bestial raiders. 

Officially, Guild Corser is based out of 
Harbortown, a small city on Trader's Isle. 
Since the city was not very detailed in the 
supplement, I replaced it with Freeport as 
fleshed out in Freeport City of Adventure. 
Various background elements from the 
sourcebook got integrated or transformed to 
fit the story. For example, the Halfling 
Benevolent Association became the Hin 
Benevolent Association, a front for a local 
thieves' guild involved in a turf war with 
another (were-infected) gang. The Golden 
Pillar Society, the Field of Honour; the Sea 
Lord's Palace - All these places became 
familiar to the players through the first 10-15 
games. In a campaign that was going to be 
about traveling, it was important to create an 
emotional bond to the home port. It added 
a certain poignant element to the campaign 
as all the players created human characters, 
natives or adopted members of Corser. They 
quickly came to hate Drac for wanting to turn 
their community into a living weapon. But 
they also did not trust the elven guilds and 
the ruling guildmaster Oran Meditor, both 
for their desire to concentrate power into the 
Meditor-controlled political guilds and thus 
lessen Harbortown's independence, and for 
the Silver Purge. Many elven NPCs alluded to 
a possible repeat of that sad event if Drac's 
plans were not stopped. The PCs were very 
proud of their guild and did not want the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Maxiivie Beaulieu's Mystana 




VauiaNt SliaDow Peauls 

Those who have played the Savage 
TideAP know that the plot revolves 
around the Shadow Pearls, created 
by followers of Demogorgon and 
disseminated by his/her mortal 
pawns, the Crimson Fleet. The 
pearls, when unleashed, transform 
creatures in a large area into 
mutated, savage versions of 
themselves (as seen by the players 
in The Bully wug Gambit). My 
version of the Pearls underwent its 
own mutation. Rather than placing 
them in every port in the Sea of 
Dread and have the players race to 
prevent the ritual to unleash them, 
I decided that there was a larger, 
single Pearl. An artefact of 
Demogorgon that caused the Isle 
of Dread's present state of savagery 
and had since then rested on the 
Taboo Plateau, it was discovered 
by Drac and used in his plot. The 
Black Pearl (as I called it) slowly 
sheds its outer shell. Using these 
castoffs as a base ingredient, Drac 
had alchemists create a solution of 
lycanthropy. The players witnessed 
its earlier, imperfect versions in an 
abandoned base (not unlike the 
effect of the canon shadow pearl). 
If the PCs manage to find this large 
Pearl and discover a way to destroy 
it, the solution will become inert 
and Drac will have to spread 
lycanthropy the old-fashioned way. 



elves to solve their own problem (or to wipe them 
off the map for that matter). Thus the name of the 
campaign. . . For Guild and Country! 

Everything was ready: setting, NPCs, adventures... 
but something was missing. Something to give focus 
and help establish a clear mood. The answer would 
come from a four page article in an old Dragon 
Magazine: "Swashbuckling Essentials" , by Robin D. 
Law. 

LOVE LIFE AND LIFE WILL 
LOVE yOU BACK: A CAMPAIGN 
CONTRACT 

A lot of people have written about the use of social 
contracts in setting up a campaign (just type "social 
contract rpg" in Google). The contract can be as 
formal or informal as you want ~ it serves as an 
agreed-upon set of rules and guidelines for handling 
anything from player arguments to treasure 
allotment. It can also support the mood or theme of 
your campaign. Issue 273 of Dragon Magazine was a 
special "Swashbuckling" issue, with articles like "40 
Daring Adventure Hooks" and "Touche", which gave 
good ideas on fun character concepts and a great 
fiction and non-fiction reading list and recommended 
movies to inspire the GM and players alike. The movie 
list also gave me a great starting point to create 
soundtracks for the game, based off movie original 
scores. In Robin Law's article "Swashbuckling 
Essentials" the author gave 12 tips to help dungeon 
delvers adapt to the world of high sea adventures and 
dashing heroics. I read the tips at the start of every 
session for the first few sessions and they completely 
suffused the campaign. Six years on, the players still 
quote them when an appropriate situation comes 
around. I won't relate them all, but here are a few 

He who hesitates is lost - Swashbuckling heroes don't 
dwell too long on plans or agonize over details. They 
charge into a situation and trust they will be handled 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



Maxiivie Beaulieu's Mystana 




properly. Whenever the players would spend 
too much time fretting on a problem or 
situation, someone would quote the tip and 
everybody would smile and tell me "Enough 
talk! Let's go!" 

The world is on your side - This one is most 
important for the GM, I think. It also has two 
meanings. On the surface it encourages the 
players to use the environment in fun, creative 
ways and urges the GM to go along for the 
ride. Think swinging chandeliers, using 
improbable items as improvised weapons, that 
sort of thing. It also led me to relax rules on 
iconic moves like disarming for example. But 
on a more philosophical approach, this tip 
encourages the GM and players to take a more 
easygoing, fun approach to the campaign. 
Sure, the bad guy wants to accomplish terrible 
things and tragedies can happen, but in 
general a swashbuckling campaign is one of 
laughing heroes and hopeful adventure. 

It's getting back out again that's tricky - This 
one led to a lot of fun, as players would willing 
consider zany schemes to infiltrate villain's 
lairs or enemy ships because getting in is easy. 
It's getting out that's the hard (and fun) part. 
This lead to many situations where they got 
into trouble, and the entertainment came from 
trying to get out/escape/blow up the enemy 
ship! 

I could quote more tips, but the point is that 
the entire mindset of both players and GM 
were basically on the same wavelength thanks 
to these rules. We were playing the same game, 
with the same expectations of what would be 
easier or harder, of what was acceptable 
character behavior and what was "deviant" 
(which could make for cool role-play, when 
some acted out of style). It gave an energy and 
panache to player actions and guided villains' 
responses. I think it's one of the reasons why 



my players still enjoy the game after so long 
and why it's still so fresh for me. It definitely 
has convinced me to use similar guidelines 
in any future campaign I will run, regardless 
of genre, setting or system. 

LOVE TURNS FOES INTO 
FRIENDS: WHEN NPCS 
DONT TURN BAD 

Armed with setting, modules and dice, we 
started playing For Guild and Country. And 
true to form, the players quickly unraveled 
key elements of the campaign, notably the 
transformation of Vanthus into a villain. Three 
of the PCs were childhood friends of the 
Alexir siblings and we worked together to 
imagine a common upbringing, with 
incidents serving to set up future roles. 
Vanthus started the campaign having return 
from a "reform school" meant to teach 
discipline and he was to accompany the PCs 
on their apprenticeship on the Radiant. I had 
planned for him to grow angrier and distant 
in the early part of the campaign, as his 
youthful resentment towards his father 
fanned into outright hatred. For example the 
very first adventure had the players sent by 
captain Alexir into Scurvytown to recover 
Vanthus from a scummy dive named the 
Chum Bucket. He got them involved in a duel 
with visiting Thyatian legionnaires and 
introduced them to his disreputable "lady 
companion" Brissa. 

But of course, PCs are PCs and the players 
would have none of his guff. But instead of 
pushing him away, they decided to help him 
clean up his act. No amount of lashing-out, 
no angry tirades discouraged them. Heck, 
they even decided to assist Brissa in kicking 
her drug habit by getting involved in a local 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Maxiivie Beaulieu's Mystana 




turf war between rival gangs. It became less 
and less believable Vanthus would turn out 
bad. He might still be mad at his father, but 
the PCs were clearly his friends, and refused 
to abandon him despite his jerky ways. When 
push came to shove, he didn't betray his father, 
and a large part of the campaign turned on its 
head. 

Lavinia, for her part, was supposed to stay 
behind and manage the Alexir estate while the 
PCs were away. However, one of the players 
started romancing her and the others clearly 
noticed she was slightly jealous of them getting 
the chance to sail away on an adventure while 
she had to be the dutiful daughter. And so they 
hatched a plot to convince her to come along 
and snuck her aboard, even going so far as 
forging the ship manifest to introduce a new 
sailor named Alex Levin (or Levin, A. according 
to the manifest.). Great Disguise and Bluff 
checks, a fair Forgery result and "the world 
being on our side" allowed this scheme to 
came to fruition. A bit corny? Perhaps, but a 
perfect match for a swashbuckling campaign 
and a source of great roleplay as the players 
felt torn between their loyally between their 
captain and their friendship with Lavinia. She 
ended being a full party-NPC, still 
accompanying them on their away missions 
and even following them to the Hollow World . . . 

FOR THE WORLD IS 
HOLLOW AND I'VE SEEN 
THE RED SUN : PLAINER 
ACTIONS AND THE 
CAMPAIGN 

And here we come to the main story deviation 
caused by player action, one that took the 
campaign on what could have been a major 



sidetrack but turned out to be a pivotal 
moment. In the background fluff I had given 
the players (notably through a handout- 
newssheet called the "Shipping News" taken 
from the Freeport supplement), they had 
been introduced to the concept of the Hollow 
World. They read Claransa the Seer's book 
on her voyages to said Hollow World and 
attended her conference (the PC bard even 
got the author to sign her copy of her book) . 
But it was more of a backdrop element. Until 
the invasion of West Portage... 

Returning from a trading mission while most 
of the crew of the Radiant stayed in West 
Portage, the players were witness to a massive 
maritime assault on the city by Crimson Fleet 
pirates. The ships had been magically 
transported to the harbor en masse by a 
mysterious maelstrom that churned the water 
but left ships unharmed. My plan was for the 
players to dash through the city battling 
raiders to their ship, arriving just in time to 
witness assassins killing merchant-prince 
Alexir. The Crimson Fleet would depart, 
leaving the players as the trainee-officers in 
charge of the ship. After chasing the pirates 
they would learn of the source of the curse 
on the Isle of Dread and the AP could unfold. 
But then players happened... 

Someone proposed to capture a docked 
pirate vessel (either to battle other pirates or 
reach the Radiant faster). Donning red 
bandanas and grabbing "loot" they walked 
onto the Beautiful Ana and quickly seized 
the vessel. By interrogating the crew, they 
learned the commanders of the fleet were 
using a powerful item called the Maelstrom 
Tree to transport the fleet to and from their 
hidden base named Baraga. They even 
learned of the code to trigger a reversal of 
the transport (to be used in emergency, like 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



Maxiivie Beaulieu's Mystana 
m 




the appearance of an Imperial fleet or stiff 
resistance). They triggered the code, canceling 
the assault and sending the Crimson Fleet back 
through their watery tunnel. And of course, 
the players decided to stay on the ship, 
masquerading as pirates to infiltrate their lair. 
I asked if they were sure, they of course 
answered "He who hesitates is lost!" I 
described their passage through the maelstrom 
and their arrival in a strange land with a red 
sun. The Crimson 
Fleet main base was 
located in the Hollow 
World (in the Merry 
Pirate Seas of course) 
reached through a 
powerful Immortal 
artifact. We then 
paused for the night. 

In retrospect, I should 
have predicted they 
would choose to 
embark on this path. 
It seemed both 
dangerous and crazy, 
hallmarks of the genre 

we were playing. I knew it would strand the 
players for a long time, but they didn't. It 
profoundly changed the path of the campaign. 
They stayed in the Hollow World for a full year. 
They met the main captains of the Crimson 
Fleet, got a crew for the Beautiful Ana, 
encountered new allies and enemies and 
discovered that Sunken Alphatia was still 
around, floating in the sky of the Hollow 
World. They even got to travel to the Empire 
and resolve one of the PCs background quests. 
On one hand, it got the players in the heart of 
enemy territory and netted them lots of useful 
information. For example, they learned of 
divisions amongst the pirate captains, notably 
Harliss Javell (an important figure in the 



Savage Tides adventures) who was dubious 
at the advantage at being turned into a 
werecreature. The players were able to recruit 
her and a fellow captain into defecting from 
the Crimson Fleet and becoming privateers. 
They also discovered the Fleet was recruiting 
heavily in the Hollow World (mostly in the 
Merry Pirate Seas and Azcan Empire) thus 
giving them a large pool of replacement 
troops. On the other hand, it delayed the 

Savage Tide AP 
even after their 
return from the 
Hollow World. By 
then they were 
powerful enough to 
get involved into 
national politics. 
They met the heads 
of various guilds, 
learned more about 
the elf wielding the 
Maelstrom Tree and 
made (tentative) 
peace with Oran 
Meditor. 

The end result is that after the Hollow World 
and running up and down the Sea of Dread 
resolving sidequests, background issues and 
basically enjoying having their own ship, 
they're finally arriving at the Isle of Dread. 
They're now 18 th level and way too powerful 
for the Savage Tide AP as written, but the 
campaign became theirs in a sense. They 
wanted to find a cure for a beloved NPCs' 
mother's curse? Well I wasn't going to tell 
them no! I always tried to place little elements 
of the campaign as they adventured: a clue 
here, a link to the main story there. In a sense 
their actions freed me from having to run the 
adventure path as written and forced me to 
deconstruct the adventures, rearrange them, 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Maxiivie Beaulieu's Mystana 




swap events and places. Savage Tide became 
a sandbox for the adventure that was the PCs 
life. No plan survives the test of reality - 1 guess 
no campaign survives it's players. 

THE FIEND IS IN THE 
DETAILS: BRINCJINCJ A 
WORLD TO LIFE 

1 tend to run rules-light campaigns: my 
adventures are more on the storytelling side 
of the GMing spectrum. But I did recognize 
that certain rules could encourage or distract 
from the mood we were trying to implement 
so I established a few house rules. Notably we 
used the defense bonus system from 
Unearthed Arcana 3 , basically replacing armor 
and shield bonuses with set numbers 
determined by class and level. It even became 
a point of pride that the PCs were NOT 
wearing armor, as opposed to the lumbering 
guards and soldiers they often battled. We also 
used the action point rules from the same 
book, using I-Ching coins (pieces of eight!) I 

2 The D&D 3e book published in 2004. 



got from Chinatown, where I also procured 
little wooden boxes used by the players to 
store their action coins and figurines. Each 
PC had his own little treasure chest! We also 
eventually integrated Paizo's Critical Hit Deck 
(great for those flashing rapiers) and Plot 
Twist Cards (used many times to create classic 
swashbuckling role reversals, surprising 
betrayals and other trope-appropriate twists). 

My players also contributed to the 
atmosphere in lots of little ways: someone 
brought rope and a guide on making nautical 
knots: instead of doodling between turns in 
combat they'd often end up practicing their 
use rope skill. Someone else got a lexicon of 
ship and sailing terms and we tried to 
integrate them into our speech. I made a few 
soundtracks using movie scores (The opening 
of Monty Python's The Meaning of Life The 
Crimson Permanent Insurance is the best 
swashbuckling song EVER!) And my awesome 
players even made me a great ship birthday 
cake (gluten free, too!) 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Maxiivie Beaulieu's Mystana 




SAILING) INCO 'CHE 
SUNSEC... 

I've been GMing for over 25 years now and I 
have to say For Guild and Country is my most 
consistent, complete game. Through the use 
of various background books and supplements 
fused into a single coherent whole and by 
adopting a clear campaign philosophy the 
players could integrate and adopt, I think I've 
run my favorite adventure so far. My players, 
most of them not familiar with Mystara, 
enjoyed their visit to our favorite shared world 
and contributed in its growth by steering the 
campaign into unexpected directions. They 
sailed forth on the Sea of Dread, and when the 
final battle with the Pirate King will be joined 
this spring, they will proudly shout: 



Of DueaDf ul ENcouNteus 

The crew of the Beautiful Ana saw many 
strange things as they sailed the open 
seas. Here are three examples of their 
encounters on the Sea of Dread: 

 An Ironclad ship from Honor Island, 
adrift after the fire elementals from 
their boiler ran amok; 

 The raft city of Kron, as an unexpected 
safe harbour; 

 The haunted coasts of Karameikos. 
How the players came to hate that 
realm: every small fishing village 
seemingly more riddled with 
Demogorgon cultist than the last! 



'For guild and country 1 



REFERENCES 

David Cook and Tom Moldvay, 
XI The Isle of Dread, TSR, 1981 

Deborah Christian and Kim Eastland, 
Gaz9 The Minrothad Guilds, TSR, 1988 

Aaron Allston, 

Hollow World Campaign Set, TSR, 1990 
Robin D. Law, 

"Swashbuckling essentials" ', 

in Dragon Magazine 273, Wizards of the Coast, 

2000 

Matt Forbeck, Hal Mangold, and Chris Pramas, 
Freeport: the City of Adventure, Green Ronin 
Publishing, 2002 



Brian E. Kirby, Rob Lawson, William Simoni, 
and Robert J. Toth, 

Black Sails over Freeport, Green Ronin 
Publishing, 2003 

Andy Collins, Jesse Decker, David Noonan, 
and Rich Redman, 

Unearthed Arcana, Wizards of the Coast, 2004 

Chris Pramas, William Simoni, and Robert J. 
Toth 

The Freeport Trilogy, Green Ronin Publishing, 
2005 

Savage Tide Adventure Path, in Dungeon 
Magazine issues 139-150, Paizo Publishing, 
2006-2007 

The Pirate Kingdom of Ierendi (AM2) 
by John Biles 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ciie DeMoqnapfty of leneNfci £, MiNnotliaC) 




The DEMOGRAPHY of 



Ierendi and Minrothad 



This article is the second of the demography 
articles begun with The Demography of 
Karameikos featured in the first issue of 
'Threshold'. Like the first, this second article 
deals with the issue of demography - how the 
population is spread among the country, 
which races inhabit the land, which is the 
region's population density, and so on; this 
time we will center on the island states which 
lay to the south of the Known World's coast, 
that is Ierendi and Minrothad. As in the first 
article of the series, we will beforehand take 
a look at the way in which Ierendi and 
Minrothad are described in terms of 
population in official supplements, then we 
will again be giving our suggestion on some 
modifications to alter official population 
figures in order to make them appear more 
consistent with real-world demographic data 
in the Middle Ages, and with the changes 
suggested in the article found in the first issue 
about the population of the Grand Duchy of 
Karameikos. 

We suggest reading the introductory paragraph 
in The Demography of Karameikos, in 
Threshold #1, titled "A Look at Medieval 
Demography", to get an idea of what the 
population density was like in the place and 
time which inspired the Known World of 
Mystara, that is late Medieval Europe. 

Just a last note before we go on. Both GAZ4 
The Kingdom of Ierendi and GAZ9 The 
Minrothad Guilds state that a huge number of 



by Simone Neri (Zendrolion) 

small and tiny island, atolls, and reefs dot the 
sea around the two archipelagos' main 
islands. These lesser islands, however, are 
not featured on both supplements' 8-miles 
per hex poster maps. The following article 
will therefore take into account only the 
population of the major islands shown on 
canon maps, assuming that population in the 
lesser islands is negligible or so small as not 
to change the picture too much. 

'CHE KINCJDOM OF 
IERENDI 

leueNbiaN PopulatioN in 
Official SouRces 

GAZ4 The Kingdom of Ierendi, the tables 
featured in TM2 The Eastern Countries, and 
the three volumes of the Poor Wizard's 
Almanac constitute the main official sources 
for the population and demographic figures 
on the Ierendi islands. All the sources are 
more or less consistent in giving the Kingdom 
an overall population of about 60,000 people 
(numbers range from the 62,500 of the TM2 
and GAZ4 to the 57,850 of the PWAs), 
three-quarter of which live in the largest of 
the ten islands - Ierendi Island - and with 
Ierendi city as the only urban settlement with 
over 10,000 inhabitants. At best, with those 
figures the Kingdom's population density 
results in 1.4 people per square mile - barely 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e Deivioqnapliy of leneNfci § MiNnotftaO 




above the threshold of what is considered 
untouched wilderness. 

In GAZ4, which is the most thorough source 
about Ierendi, the Kingdom is described as a 
lush subtropical paradise of beautiful scenery, 
white sandy beaches, and calm waters, 
populated by Hawaiian-style natives (the 
Makai), and visited by thousands of tourists 
from the continent each year (GA24 says about 
20,000). Apart from Safari Island, which is 
mostly kept in wilderness state for tourism 
purposes, most of the islands are at best only 
averagely populated, while some (Aloysius, 
Roister, and Utter islands) are only inhabited 
by a handful of people on the coasts. In at least 
two occasions, GAZ4 speaks of "port towns" 
and "small towns" scattered among the islands' 
semi-arid plains and coastal beaches, but apart 
from Gaamo and Vlaad (both with a 
population of 1,100), no other town is marked 
or described in GA24 or elsewhere. These 
official figures generate an urban population 
of about 20% - mostly made up by the capital 
town of Ierendi itself (12,000 people). 

Nevertheless, Ierendi's inhabitants don't seem 
to be threatened by monsters, beasts, or other 
perils haunting the almost uninhabited islands; 
that means that the frontier and the fight 
against the wilderness is not a main theme of 
this setting. Volcanic activity and natural 
dangers (parasites, diseases) seem to be the 
only causes which may explain this very low 
population level - but according to GAZ4 they 
only usually plague some of the islands. Also, 
Ierendi's history has not been plagued by 
population-threatening events in the last 
thousand years or so. 

What contrasts with this level of (or lack of) 
settlement is the fact that Ierendi is described 
as one of the main sea powers of the Sea of 
Dread, with an increasing importance in 



international trade and a powerful fleet. 
Moreover, the Kingdom sees a huge number 
of visitors from the continent each year, and 
GAZ4 describes in more than one occasion 
the various tourist facilities present in almost 
each of the isles. The fact that the islands' 
central activity is tourism leads us to think 
that the official population figures for Ierendi 
may have somewhat been heavily 
underestimated - you won't have any excess 
population devoted to the tourism trade if 
the islands had the density of a wilderness 
land. Besides that, a country of 60,000 people 
could hardly pose a threat - in terms of 
resources and manpower - to, say, the 
Thyatian naval power. And not without 
difficulty official sources could explain how 
the neighboring, smaller, equally volcanic, 
partially less fertile Minrothad islands could 
have a population (as per GAZ9) five times 
that of the Ierendi islands. 

An AlteRNate rake on 
leueNDi's DeMoquapliy 

So, while canonic population figures for the 
Kingdom of Ierendi are not unreasonable per 
se, they appear to be somewhat inconsistent 
with some aspects of the country's 
description and history. Therefore, what 
follows is an attempt to redesign Ierendi's 
population figures according to numbers 
more in line with population densities in 15 th 
century Europe - the real world historical 
setting which inspired Mystara's Known 
World. We have tried to stay as true as 
possible - if not to canonic population figures 
- at least to the individual islands' settlement 
rank, as found in the description given of 
each island in GAZ4, ensuring the 
preservation of Ierendi Island's vast 
superiority in terms of population and 
settlement. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie DeMoqnapliy of leneNfci Q MiNnotftaO 




As you can guess, this way we will end up 
having a much more populous Ierendi, but 
don't be afraid! This won't alter your tropical 
paradise setting. Population figures don't 
make interesting settings, descriptions do: 
what we are doing here is taking the 
descriptions of the islands featured in GAZ4 
and deriving from them some hopefully more 
consistent population figures which would 
reflect Ierendi's status as a sea power and as 
the Known World's main tourist travel 
destination. In doing this, we will not rework 
the urban population and we will keep it as 
listed in GAZ4, but take a look at the 
"Increasing the Urban Population of Ierendi" 
sidebar for suggestions about a different 
approach. 

For simplicity's and uniformity's sake, we will 
make use of the same density ranks that we 
used in the article about Karameikos' 
demography in the first issue of "Threshold". 

An Oveuall Look 
at trie leueNbi isles 

The whole area of the ten main islands of the 
Ierendi archipelago totals 17,539 square miles, 
with a surface area comparable to that of 
real-world countries like the Dominican 
Republic or Estonia, or to the sum of the US 
states of Vermont and New Hampshire; Ierendi 
island alone is about double the size of 
real-world islands like Puerto Rico or Cyprus. 
Several tiny atolls and islets dot the sea around 
the ten major islands, but there are mostly 
unmapped and unsettled, and only serve at 
best as pirate hideout or are simply the 
emerging top of underwater volcanoes. 

While the Kingdom of Ierendi claims all the 
ten major islands and several minor ones, it 
actually controls only a part of these lands. Of 
the ten islands, one - White Island - is the 



iNcueasiNQ tlie UubaN 
PopulatioN of leueNbi 

As you may read in the "Ierendian 
Population in Official Sources" paragraph, 
GAZ4 mentions in two places a scattering 
of "small towns" and "port towns" which 
shall dot the islands' plains and beaches. 

Even if the Ierendi's urban population is 
perfectly acceptable as it is (without any 
town besides the capital, Gaamo and 
Vlaad), with the increased population 
figures we will get in this article you could 
deem fitting to raise a handful of villages 
featured on GAZ4's poster map to the 
status of small towns, and you could do it 
without having to worry about the 
urban: rural population ratio. A number of 
small towns would also seem more fitting 
for a "pirate islands" setting like Ierendi. 

Both Gaamo 's and Vlaad 's population 
could be increased even three-fivefold, 
and the same could be done for the 
population of the main settlement of each 
other island - Nula, Jortan, Kurutiba; 
among other villages, particularly fitting 
to be raised to the status of town would 
be Kobos, on Safari Island, which is listed 
as having a port nearly the same size as 
the one of Tameronikas (pop. 4,000, in 
Ylaruam) and is also the main tourist 
stopover of Safari Island. 

If you do this, increasing by some 
thousand people the capital's population 
could be a good idea - but try not to 
overdo with this, because the islands 
should not end up having great cities; thus 
we suggest to avoid pushing Ierendi's 
population beyond 16,000 people. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G DeMoqiiapliy of leneNOi £? MiNiiotliao 
m 




home of a mysterious sects of druids and 
declared off limits to shipping; while another 
- Honor Island - is a de facto independent 
state which is (more or less willingly) allied to 
the Kingdom. Both islands are usually 
considered part of the Kingdom, even if 
actually the Ierendi government doesn't 
exercise any authority there. 

Moreover, of the whole surface area of the ten 
major islands, only less than the half is settled 
to some degree. About 37% of the area is 
wilderness, while another 21% is made up by 
barely-settled borderlands. Most of the 
population (72%) actually lives in less than 
one-fifth (19%) of the islands' surface area. 

Total population of the Kingdom of Ierendi is 
about 381,000 people, including 330,600 



humans - most of which (over 70%) belongs 
to the native Makai ethnic group, while the 
rest is made up by settlers from foreign 
countries who came here in the course of the 
last three centuries -, 34,900 demihumans, 
8,000 humanoids, and 7,500 other creatures 
(taking into account only the races who are 
represented by not less than 100 members 
in the country). Average population density 
for the whole country is about 21.7 people 
per square mile. 

Table 1 shows the distribution of the 
archipelago's population among major racial 
groups. The table doesn't take into account 
the tourists that swarm the islands yearly in 
the summer season; according to official data, 
their numbers is around 20,000 people. 



Table 1: Ierendi's Racial Groups 
Racial Group Total Racial Population % on Total Population 



Humans 


330,600 


86.8% 


Demihumans 


34,900 


9.2% 


Halflings 


32,400 


11.8% 


Dwarves 


2,000 


0.5% 


Elves 


400 


0.1% 


Gnomes 


100 


Negligible 


Humanoids 


8,000 


2.1% 


Goblins 


8,000 


2.1% 


Other Creatures 


7,500 


1.9% 


Lizardmen 


3,500 


0.9% 


Lupins 


3,000 


0.8% 


Harpies 


700 


0.2% 


Fire Elementals* 


200 


Negligible 


Fire Giants 


100 


Negligible 


TOTAL 


381,000 


100% 



* Including true fire elementals and other intelligent creatures from the Elemental 
Plane of Fire (like efreets, helions, fire plasms, and so on). 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G DeMoqnapliy of leneNfci Q MiNnotftaC) 
m 




LaND CoNtuol aND 
QoveRNMeNt 

Ierendi is a young realm which 
has quickly developed since its 
independence from the Thyatian 
Empire, happened four centuries 
ago in AC 602. Though formally 
a kingdom, Ierendi is so in name 
only, because its monarchs don't 
wield any real power apart from 
a ceremonial one, that is 
representing the unity of the 
islands in front of their diverse 
population and of the foreign 
nations. In fact, since AC 790 the Ierendian 
crown is elective and elections are held 
annually; from AC 867 the choice of an yearly 
royal couple - a King and a Queen - has been 
done not through popular election anymore, 
but through the Royal Tournament of 
Adventurers, an annual competition (opened 
also to foreigners since AC 935) whose male 
and female winner become Ierendi' s King and 
Queen for an year. 

Real power is in the hands of a number of 
aristocratic families, some of ancient origin, 
some raised only in the recent times, whose 
wealth comes from the owning of vast 
expansions of land, or from financial or 
mercantile activities, or shipping enterprises; 
some of the most unscrupulous of them 
earned their wealth through the practice of 
criminal activities, like smuggling or piracy. 

One member of each of the most powerful 
aristocratic family of the Kingdom sits in the 
Tribunal, an oligarchic council who represents 
the true power and government in Ierendi. 
These families' position in the Tribunal is de 
facto hereditary. The Tribunal has judicial and 
executive powers, as well as legislative ones - 
even if the latter is shared with the Council of 




Citizens, which is formed by the heads of the 
richer and larger merchant and landowning 
non-noble families of the Kingdom; about 
0.5% of the families of the whole Kingdom 
sit in the Council of Citizens, most of whom 
reside or are native of the capital itself. 

The political stage sees almost constant 
struggle between major parties within the 
Tribunal. Corruption is rampant, as are abuse 
of power, blackmail, and other ruthless 
means of forcing or persuading other families 
to support one's policy. Sometimes the 
political struggle transfers also to the Council, 
where friction between non-noble families 
and aristocratic ones often resurfaces. The 
result of this political mess is that the 
Kingdom's laws are many, unclearly-written, 
full of contradictions, and pierced by subtle 
shortcuts which the most acknowledged 
people know how to exploit to their own 
advantage. Nevertheless, this internal 
conflictuality to the country's ruling class is 
a weakness and limit to the Tribunal's 
authority. 

Both the Tribunal's and the Council's families 
are almost all of foreign heritage - that is, 





124 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotliat) 




nearly none of them has Makai origin. This 
means that a minority (wealthy and aristocratic 
families) of a minority (the descendants of the 
foreign settlers) controls the Kingdom. This is 
certainly another weakness as well, more so if 
one considers the exclusion from the 
government not only of the Makai, but even 
of the larger part of the settlers' population 
(middle and lower classes) . 

The control of the government extend to about 
60% of the islands' area. Wilderness regions 
most often include the mountainous territory, 
the volcanic areas and the lava fields around 
them, swamps or the depths of the rain forests. 
One exception if Safari Island, which is kept 
unsettled by royal decree in order to use it as 
a touristic attraction for adventurers and 
monster-hunters. Wilderness areas are most 
of all the domain of dangerous, creatures, like 
wild and giant animals, monsters, a few sparse 
lizardman tribes, and even of the occasional 
dragon. The islands' wilderness doesn't host 
a large population of savage humanoids (apart 
from a handful of goblin clans), thus raids from 
this sources are not considered a relevant 
danger or even a problem by the government. 
Settlement of wilderness areas is nevertheless 
seen as a primary issue by a part of the 
Tribunal and the Council, and special 
measures are often devised to make settlement 
there an attractive perspective for islanders 
and foreign immigrants alike. 



LaND OccupatioN aNb Social 
Classes 

As said above, only a small area of the whole 
surface of the islands is truly settled; 
wilderness (37% of total land area) and 
borderlands (21%) still account for the 
greater part of the country. In fact, areas with 
a very high density level (over 130 people per 
square mile) are only found in the immediate 
suburban surroundings of Ierendi town, 
while high density areas (85-130 people per 
square mile) extend about 15-20 miles 
around that region, along the final course of 
the Ierendi River, and on the tract of plain 
and beachy seacoast north of the capital. The 
central area of Honor Island, where the 
settlement of Filtot and the Citadel are found, 
can be considered very high density areas, 
even if a particular type of that. The small 
area around Kobos, on Safari Island, where 
most of the wilderness preserve's tourist 
trade is located, counts as a high density area. 

Average density areas (41-84 people per 
square mile) host the bulk of Ierendi's 
population: they encompass a vast area of 
Ierendi Island's interior along the Makai and 
the Ierendi Rivers, and much of the island's 
northern, eastern, and southern coasts. 
Average density areas also represent the 
upper level of settlement in other islands: the 
eastern shores of Elegy Island, the northern 
and southern coasts of Fletcher Island, some 
spost along the Angel Cove in Alcove Island, 
some areas along the coasts and the interior 
of Safari Island, the central and northern half 
of the Mau-Mau Bay on Aloysius Island, and 
the eastern coasts of Utter Island. 

Low density areas (10-40 people per square 
mile) usually extend beyond the average 
density ones. On Ierendi Island, the best- 
settled parts of the western coast belong to 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Deivioqnapliy of leneNfci Q MiNnotliaO 




this level of settlement, as the area around 
Ronowac village on Roister Island. In turn, 
around low density areas are the borderlands 
(1.3-9 people per square mile), which often 
represent the only type of settlement found 
in the islands' inland areas, often in forest, hill, 
or mountainous regions. The wilderness (less 
than 1.3 people per square mile) encompasses 
the most savage and remote areas of the 
islands, usually the mountain peaks and 
chains, the uplands, and the deepest forests. 

A sizeable part (about a third) of the lands over 
which the government claims control is 
inhabited by native Makai tribes who still 



practice their traditional lifestyle. These 
tribes, who live on what nature produces, 
practice a little agriculture, fruit-gathering, 
fishing, and hunting; they mostly live in 
Ierendi Island's uplands and rain forests, or 
on smaller islands, and in general are found 
in borderlands or low settled areas. These 
traditional Makai tribes have uncommon 
contacts with the rest of the Kingdom: their 
lifestyle is self-sufficient and they are only 
interested in the little trade they need to get 
metal tools or other manufactured items. 
Otherwise they tend to themselves, and are 
often as left alone by the government as they 
ignore it themselves. 





126 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNKOtftaO 




U 



U 
-h 

?m 

u 

(N 

U 
-h 

H 



-H C 

3 -2 ^ 
o v 



00 



O 



3 

a 

o 



c 

o 



'  v 
TO Tj 

a so 

3 ? C ^ 

| & § £ 



2 A $ 



JJ 2 ~0J 

DC Y t! 7( 

g d m 
a 



d 

2 fe. 

B d u 
'en W) 
"2 d d. 

Ph 



O gP 60 



o 



1 



3 l) 

If! « 

to 



o 

!h OJ ee 

XI d X 

e « aj 

§ oo 



T3 
60 

1 



a 
£ 



o 
o 
m 

o~ 



o 
o 

co 

cvf 

rH 
+ 



o 

m 

rH 

o 



vo 



-d 
so 



> 



o 
o 

00 

CN 
in 



o 



o 

m 

rH 

iA 

00 



in 



?a 



o 
o 

CN 

vo 



o 
o 

+ 



m 

vo 



op 

rH 



m 



CN 

vo 

CN 



U 
60 

I 



5R 

CM 



O 

o 

csf 

00 



CM 



o 
6 



5R 



O 

ON 

rn 



I 

hH 



m 



o 
o 

ON 



m 



CN 



vo 



TO 

s 

1) 

TO 
!h 
O 



o 
o 

CN 

in 



00 

d 



rH 

J 
pa 



m 

VD~ 



m 



2 

OJ 
TO 



O 
O 



O 
O 
X 

vo" 

VO 

m 



o 
o 

CN 

cn 



cn 
r 



o 
o 



On 
m 



PC 

PTS 



o 



Vh 
60 



TO 



TO 

*o 

TO 

X! 



a 

o 

'?M 
in 

a 
o 
a 

d 
o 

<u 
rt 

TO 

d 



u 
X 



(/3 
Vh 

X 





Z 



CO 

K 
o 

u 

Vh 

CJ 
?M 

d 

u 

60 



U 
*-> 

d 

i 

TO 

OJ 

<H 

d 

d 
o 

u 
d 

u 

TO 



u 
5^ 

U 

a 



60 -5 
d & 

rt O 

d a 



a a 

d 

O OJ 

si d 

+3 -h 

d o 
?a o 

^ o 

IV 

d vo 

TO 

d d 

.2 I 

J3 o 
a ^ 

Ph g 

* o 

* 03 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G Deivioqnapliy of leneNOi £? Miiwotliat) 
m 




The two-thirds of the Kingdom's territory 
which is under the control of the government 
is inhabited by Makai who have adopted a 
lifestyle more akin to that of the "civilized" 
countries, influenced by the large minority of 
"foreign" settlers who came to Ierendi in the 
past centuries. These Makai who live in rural 
and coastal villages found in the more settled 
areas make up the Kingdom's working class 
in the agricultural field, as only a handful of 
them own their own land. Many are employed 
as workers in the plantations, where life is still 
hard even after the reform edicts of the last 
century, while others work in the Kingdom's 
gold and platinum mines. Some of them live 
in the capital, where they usually perform 
low-class jobs, like labourers, longshoremen, 
roundsmen, servants, manufacturers or sellers 
of traditional products, and so on. A few more 
fortunate ones find occupation in the bustling 
and recently-developed tourism trade. 

Descendants of foreign settlers live mostly in 
average- to heavily-populated areas, in the 
surroundings of the capital and in Ierendi 
town itself. Tourist trade and middle-class 
activities and professions are mostly in the 
hands of this minority, as is the greater part of 
the Kingdom's private-owned land. The richest 
or fanciest of these people have villas, 
residences, and mansions in the most beautiful 
beaches and spots of the archipelago. A few of 
them are indeed former adventurers who 
decided to settle in Ierendi after the end of 
their career. 

Table 2 shows the settlement levels of the 
Kingdom, indicating the number of hexes (on 
GAZ4's poster 8-miles per hex map) belonging 
to each level and the number of people (all 
races) living in it. Note that the wilderness 
areas' average density is a little higher than 
norm (which would be 0.3 inhabitants per 



square mile) due to the presence of some 
groups of creature who live exclusively there 
- such as some lizardman and goblin clans, 
harpies nests, and so on. 

UubaN PopulatioN 

Talking of Ierendi's urban population 
essentially means talking of the capital's 
population only. Ierendi town in fact is the 
only urban settlement (that is the only 
settlement with more than 10,000 
inhabitants) of the whole Kingdom. Trade, 
craft, tourism, government, and the military 
and navy are centered here; this makes the 
nation a sort of city-state whose power 
extends over the rest of Ierendi Island and 
the other lesser islands. Thus, the Kingdom's 
urban population is only 3.2% of the total 
population. 

No other towns exist in the Kingdom besides 
Gaamo (on Utter Island) and Vlaad (on 
Fletcher Island), both of which have a very 
small population (1,100 inhabitants); they 
don't change at all the picture if one also adds 
settlements with 1,000 inhabitants or more 
to the count of the country's urban 
population - which in this case would 
amount to 3.7% of total population. 

Other settlements are mere fishing or 
agricultural villages of some hundred 
residents. Thus, Ierendi is still a mostly rural 
country, with city life only limited to the 
capital. Nevertheless, in the near future 
immigration and the increase of trade and 
tourism could improve the status of some 
villages, helping them to grow to the size of 
small towns. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNitotftao 




Here follows a list of the Kingdom's known 
settlements, along with their population, if 
known. 

Cities and Large Towns: Ierendi Island: 
Ierendi (pop. 12,000). 

Small Towns: Fletcher Island: Vlaad (pop. 
1,100). Utter Island: Gaamo (pop. 1,100). 



Villages: Alcove Island: Kurutiba (pop. 600). 
Aloysius Island: Jortan (pop. 800). Elegy 
Island: Nula (pop. 600) . Honor Island: Filtot 
(pop. 750). Ierendi Island: Makalaui, Maona 
Kea, Matarakai, Punaauia, Taroa, Tooraka. 
Roister Island: Ronowac (pop. 700). Safari 
Island: Calatupos (pop. 350), Kobos (pop. 
800), Pupami (pop. 200). 



TlYjz TeN islaNDs 

Now we will take a brief tour of the Ierendi 
archipelago, examining each of the ten islands which 
make it up, their main features, and their level of 
settlement. Please refer to Table 2, above, to detect 
the density range and average density of each 
settlement level. 



ALCOVE ISLAND 

Surface area: 1,241 square miles (7.1% of 
total Kingdom's surface area). 

Total population: 15,050 (4% of total 
Kingdom's population). 

Population density: 12.1 people/square mile. 

Alcove is an oddly-shaped island which is one 
of the last remnants of the old Kikianu 
Caldera; its eastern mountains give sway to 
placid sandy beaches in the west. The island 



has been for centuries a haven for pirates 
fleeing or hiding from justice, and thus has 
never enjoyed a high level of settlement. In 
the last century, clearing operations 
undertaken by Ierendi 's Royal Navy have 
allowed for a modest immigration, which has 
directed itself mostly along the bay known as 
the Angel Cove; there, a fishing industry and 
many recreational activities devoted to 
tourism have grown. The remaining pirates 
have relocated in hidden caves and lagoons 
on the other side of the island. 



Alcove 


Settlement 


# of 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Island 


Level 


8-miles 


mileage 


population 


population 






hexes 


(averaged) 


(averaged) 


(averaged) 




Average 


1 


4% 


3,650 


24% 




Low 


7.5 


34% 


8,700 


58% 




Borderlands 


8.4 


38% 


2,450 


16% 




Wilderness 


5.3 


24% 


250 


2% 




TOTAL 


22.2 


100% 


15,050 


100% 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G Deivioqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNiiotliab 
m 




ALOYSIUS ISLAND 

Surface area: 1,302 square miles (7.4% of 
total Kingdom's surface area). 

Total population: 16,750 (4.4% of total 
Kingdom's population). 

Population density: 12.9 people/square mile. 

Aloysius is one of the southernmost islands 
of the archipelago and one of the remnants 
of the old Kikianu Caldera; its southwestern 
coasts are mountainous and volcanic, while 
the rest of the island is hilly and forested, 
leaving room to plains along the northeastern 



Aloysius 
Island 



Mau-Mau Bay. Aloysius' woods are infested 
by a nasty specimen of disease-carrying 
mosquitos, which the Makai call "mau-mau". 
The island has long been a penal colony for 
the Kingdom's criminals, but recently the 
government has decided to increase its 
population through sales of land at cheap 
prices, and some immigration has begun also 
thanks to the discovery of gold and precious 
stones mines in the interior. Among these new 
settlers is a large minority of dwarves, mostly 
from Fortress Island in Minrothad (there are 
about a thousand of them) . 



Settlement 


#of 8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 


(averaged) 


(averaged) 


(averaged) 


Average 


2.5 


11% 


9,050 


54% 


Low 


4.8 


20% 


5,550 


33% 


Borderlands 


5.5 


24% 


1,600 


10% 


Wilderness 


10.5 


45% 


550 


3% 


TOTAL 


23-3 


100% 


16,750 


100% 



ELEGY ISLAND 

Surface area: 924 square miles (5.3% of total 
Kingdom's surface area). 

Total population: 20,100 (5.3% of total 
Kingdom's population). 

Population density: 21.8 people/square mile. 

Elegy is the westernmost island of the 
archipelago; it is essentially a large plateau 



Elegy 
Island 



dipping from the western mountains to the 
eastern coasts, lightly wooded, rocky and poor 
in resources. Its predominantly Makai 
population lives on agriculture, fishing, and 
herding. For centuries the island has been 
used as burial ground by the Makai tribes 
living on the western coasts of Ierendi Island; 
the practice of cave-burials has been revived 
in recent years by well-off inhabitants of Makai 
descent. 



Settlement 


#of8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 


(averaged) 


(averaged) 


(averaged) 


Average 


3.4 


21% 


12,350 


61% 


Low 


5.5 


33% 


6,400 


32% 


Borderlands 


4.1 


25% 


1,200 


6% 


Wilderness 


3.5 


21% 


150 


1% 


TOTAL 


16.5 


100% 


20,100 


100% 





130 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Deiwoqiiaphy of leneNOi £? MiNiiothao 
m 




FLETCHER ISLAND 

Surface area: 802 square miles (4.6% of total 
Kingdom's surface area). 

Total population: 20,600 (5.4% of total 
Kingdom's population). 

Population density: 25.7 people/square mile. 

This pleasant island is dotted with caves left 
from the past volcanic activity; many Makai 
natives have their homes built in these 
underground caves, while other inhabitants 



mostly live in Vlaad and other villages. 
Fletcher produces a variety of common and 
luxury goods: from the wines, olives, and 
citruses coming from its agricultural activity, 
to the feather artistry made possible by the 
thousands of birds which dwell on the island, 
to the mining of the famous "fire-starters" - 
crystals able to start fire through reflection of 
sunrays. The island is also notable for the 
presence of a relevant number of Traladaran 
immigrants. 



Fletcher 
Island 



Settlement 


#of 8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


Average 


3.6 


25% 


14,150 


69% 


Low 


4.3 


30% 


5,000 


24% 


Borderlands 


4.8 


34% 


1,400 


7% 


Wilderness 


1.6 


11% 


50 


0% 


TOTAL 


14.3 


100% 


20,600 


100% 



HONOR ISLAND 

Surface area: 310 square miles (1.8% of total 
Kingdom's surface area). 

Total population: 8,800 (2.3% of total 
Kingdom's population). 

Population density: 28.4 people/square mile. 

Honor Island is the last remnant of the ancient 
Kikianu Caldera's central volcanic cone - what 
is now called Mount Kala. The island is a small, 
bleak place of dark terrain made up by dried 
lava and devoid of most plant life. Honor is 
not part of the Kingdom of Ierendi, but is 
actually an independent realm inhabited by a 
sizeable community of Alphatian expatriates 
who settled there in AC 629 after an agreement 
with the King of Ierendi of that time. The 
Alphatians now make up about one-third of 




Fire salamander on Honor Island 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e DeMoqnapfty of leneNOi Q MiNnotftao 




the island's population; the rest of the 
inhabitants are goblin slaves who serve their 
human masters, and their families. Honor 
Island's Alphatians are all trained as 
spellcasters as soon as they reach an adult age; 
there are a secretive, ruthless, and belligerent 
lot, who only preserve its alliance to the 
Kingdom of Ierendi out of trade needs (mostly 
agricultural products). Here the famous and 
formidable steam-powered, armored fireship 
are built and stationed. Honor Island is 
off-limits to anyone; those displaying a special 
pass of the Ierendi government are allowed 



into the village of Filtot, but that's all they 
can see. The island's mages have accumulated 
a lot of lore about the Ethereal Plane and the 
Plane of Fire, thanks to a gateway leading 
there, located on Mount Kala and closely 
shielded from discovery by outsiders. A 
number of creatures from the Planes of Fire 
(plasms, efreets, fire elementals, helions, etc.) 
dwell here to collaborate with the island's 
mages, as well as a small community of earth 
gnomes, while small groups of fire elemental 
tourists make occasional visits here from their 
fiery home plane. 



Honor 
Island 



Settlement 


#of8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


Very high 


1 


18% 


8,700 


99% 


Wilderness 


4.5 


82% 


100 


1% 


TOTAL 


5.5 


100% 


8,800 


100% 



IERENDI ISLAND 

Surface area: 7,438 square miles (42.4% of 
total Kingdom's surface area). 

Total population: 241,500 (63.4% of total 
Kingdom's population). 

Population density: 32.5 people/square mile. 

Ierendi Island is the heart of the Kingdom and 
of its activities, the center of its government, 
and its largest and most populous island. 
Nearly two-thirds of the Kingdom's population 
lives in this island, mostly on the eastern and 
southern coasts and beaches, with a large part 
of it (around 40%) clustered in the immediate 
area around the capital town. The island's 
population swells by 15-20,000 people coming 



from the other countries of the Known World 
during the summer tourist season. Villages, 
farms, plantations, villas, and resorts of all 
types dot the eastern side of the island, while 
the western side is comparatively less settled 
and mostly inhabited by Makai natives. A 
mountainous ridge known as the Ierendi 
Uplands runs parallel to the island's western 
coast; the mountains are mostly unsettled, 
and many volcanic peaks are found in this 
chain - like the famous Makalaui Crater. The 
capital of the Kingdom, the town of Ierendi, 
is located at the half of the eastern coast: 
there are found most of the Kingdom's 
prides, like the famous coral royal castle, the 
Adventurers' Club, and the Naval Academy. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ciie DeMoqnapliy of ieneNOi Q MiNnottiao 




Ierendi 
Island 



Settlement 


#of 8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


Very high 


2.5 


2% 


33,750 


14% 


High 


10 


8% 


58,000 


24% 


Average 


27.8 


21% 


100,800 


42% 


Low 


32 


24% 


37,150 


15% 


Borderlands 


36.5 


27% 


10,600 


4% 


Wilderness 


24 


18% 


1,200 


1% 


TOTAL 


132.8 


100% 


241,500 


100% 



ROISTER ISLAND 

Surface area: 322 square miles (1.8% of total 
Kingdom's surface area). 

Total population: 2,950 (0.8% of total 
Kingdom's population). 

Population density: 9.2 people/square mile. 

Roister is a small southern island of the Ierendi 
archipelago. Its landscape is dominated by the 
volcano called Mount Ronowac, whose 



northeastern slopes give way to a vast area of 
swamps which encompasses most of the 
island's lowlands. The small local Makai 
population lives of fishing, and must strive 
daily against the deadly "mau-mau" 
mosquitos which infest the island, as well as 
with the numerous lizardman tribes who lives 
in the swamps of the interior (and who make 
up about 90% of Roister' s wilderness 
population. 



Roister 
Island 



Settlement 


#of 8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


Low 


0.8 


14% 


900 


32% 


Borderlands 


1.7 


29% 


500 


17% 


Wilderness 


3.3 


57% 


1,500* 


51%* 


TOTAL 


5.8 


100% 


2,950 


100% 



* These figures include the local lizardman population, which lives in 
the island's wilderness. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e DeMoqnappy of leneNOi Q MiNnottiao 




SAFARI ISLAND 

Surface area: 3,360 square miles (19.2% of 
total Kingdom's surface area). 

Total population: 29,800 (7.8% of total 
Kingdom's population). 

Population density: 8.9 people/square mile. 

Safari is the second largest island of the Ierendi 
archipelago; it's an island of beautiful scenery, 
gifted with plains and lush forests in its eastern 
half, and with hills and mountains in its 
western one. The island has always been the 
home of a variety of creatures, both harmless 
and dangerous, which have never been 
exterminated in the course of the past 
centuries, thus allowing for only a small level 
of settlement. In the past decades, the 
government has decided to make the island a 
tourist attraction for monster-hunters and 
people who like to take wilderness tours and 
to see strange creatures in their habitat; thus 



it was decreed that most of the island's 
interior (about 90%) should be kept as 
wilderness and off-limits to any type of 
settlement. All in all, about 75% of the island's 
surface is uninhabited, while the remaining 
25% - located mostly along the eastern and 
northern coasts, and along the course of the 
Wautili River - is quite settled in regard to 
other islands' standard; in fact, Safari Island 
lacks settlement areas qualifying as 
borderlands, because the island's population 
and immigration has directed itself in the few 
areas which were allowed for settlement. 
Nevertheless, the government imposes strict 
regulations over monster hunting, in order 
to avoid the island depletion. Safari Island is 
the home of the famous adventure parks of 
Ierendi - foremost among which is 
"Gastenoo's World of Adventure" - that is 
places where fictional, live adventures are 
staged for the tourists' benefit. 



Safari 
Island 



Settlement 


#of8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


High 


0.3 


1% 


1,750 


6% 


Average 


4.5 


8% 


16,300 


55% 


Low 


9.5 


16% 


11,000 


37% 


Borderlands 





0% 





0% 


Wilderness 


45.7 


76% 


750 


2% 


TOTAL 


60 


100% 


29,800 


100% 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 




134 




Issue #3 



"C17G Deivioqnapliy of ieneNOi £? MiNnotftao 
rm 




UTTER ISLAND 

Surface area: 1,642 square miles (9.4% of 
total Kingdom's surface area). 

Total population: 25,350 (6.7% of total 
Kingdom's population). 

Population density: 15.4 people/square mile. 

Utter is one of the remnants of the ancient 
Kikianu Caldera, and is one of the Kingdom's 
easternmost islands. It's a rugged land, 
featuring mountains of its southwestern side, 
and beautiful hills in the rest, half of which is 
carpeted with forests. The small town of 
Gaamo is the main settlement of the island. 
Little more than half (53%) of the island's 



population is made up by an unusual race of 
humans, the Albinos, descendants of an 
ancient servitor race of the Taymoran 
civilization. The Albinos have their own 
distinct culture, which they preserve despite 
being ruled by the Ierendi government. Their 
most interesting custom is the emphasis they 
put on architecture as a mean to earn their 
Immortal patron's favor after death; the island 
is indeed filled with their beautiful 
constructions - both monumental and 
simple, ranging from decorative sand castle 
to full-fledged mausoleums. The rest of the 
population is made up by Makai natives and 
by a minority of foreign settlers. 



Utter 
Island 



Settlement 


#of 8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


Average 


4 


14% 


15,600 


61% 


Low 


6.5 


22% 


7,500 


30% 


Borderlands 


5.5 


19% 


1,600 


6% 


Wilderness 


13.3 


45% 


650 


3% 


TOTAL 


29.3 


100% 


25,350 


100% 



WHITE ISLAND 

Surface area: 196 square miles (1.1% of total 
Kingdom's surface area). 

Total population: 100 (less than 0.1% of total 
Kingdom's population). 

Population density: 0.5 people/square mile. 

This small island derives its name from the 
white stone of its cliff. White Island is a strange, 
enchanted place, dotted by clear, cold, and 
very deep ponds, whose only inhabitants are 
the members of the monastic community of 
Whitenight Abbey; they are all males (adults 
and children) belong to an ethnicity not found 
anywhere else in the Known World, and speak 



an unknown tongue. Unknown to all, these 
are the last remnants of a groups of Nithians 
who didn't cede to Entropic worship in the 
final days of the Nithian Empire, and who 
were saved by their patron Immortal Orisis 
(an alias of Ixion), but obliged to live here. 
White Island can't be reached easily by boat 
because of its rugged coasts and reefs; the 
few who managed to land on it tell of 
horrible, madness-inducing dreams haunting 
their sleep. Besides the monks, the island is 
noted for the birch doves which flock here 
in endless number, and the large white apes 
who roam the interior. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie DeMoqnapliy of leneNfci § MiNuofliat) 




White 
Island 



Settlement 


#of 8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


Wilderness 


3.5 


100% 


100 


100% 



TOTAL 3.5 100% 100 100% 



MaiN Races 

The following entries list in order of their 
number - from the most numerous to the least 
numerous - the main races who dwell within 
Ierendi's borders. Each entry gives a brief 
description of that race's composition (ethnic 
subgroups, and the like), its diffusion in the 
Kingdom, relationships with other races, and 
some additional information. Note that only 
races who number at least 100 members within 
Ierendian territory are described here. Other, 
less-represented races - alongside 
unintelligent creatures - are found in the 
following chapter, "Fauna and Minor Races". 

Humans (pop. 330,600) 
Humans make up the most numerous race of 
the Ierendi islands. Within the whole human 
population of the archipelago, two main 
groupings can be distinguished, that is the 
"natives" - the Makai - and the "foreigners" or 
"settlers" - that is the descendants of foreign 
settlers who migrated to the islands in past or 
recent ages. Customs, lifestyles, spoken 
tongue, social rank, and social classes are 
mostly defined by the one of the two 
groupings to whom an individual belongs. 

The Makai are a very old people, who - 
according to historical accounts - has always 
inhabited the islands. In truth, they are a mixed 



Neathar-Oltec blood people, born from the 
intermarriages between the Oltec-blooded 
Ti-teque (descendants of the more ancient 
Azcan culture) who lived in the southwestern 
Known World during the Taymoran age, and 
the Neathar-blooded Eokai who had lived for 
centuries in northern Davania and had then 
migrated in the islands of the Sea of Dread, 
up to the southern Known World. 

The Makai tongue is unrelated to any other 
tongue spoken in the Known World; in fact, 
their language was heavily influenced by the 
close relations that their ancestors maintained 
with the rakasta in ages past, during their stay 
in northern Davania. Rakasta influences (and 
perhaps even dominion) - mostly by the 
Pardasta and Fast Runner breed - slowly 
changed the Makai ancestors' tongue to what 
is today. 

The Makai make up the vast majority of 
Ierendi's human population (71%). They are 
a peaceful and welcoming people, and tend 
to favor their traditional rural lifestyle to the 
urban ways of later settlers. The islands of 
the archipelago are dotted by their villages, 
most of which rely on farming, fishing, and 
some other traditional trades. A relevant part 
of the Makai population has adapted to the 
lifestyle introduced by the continental settlers 
during the course of the centuries; some of 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ciie DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNiiotliat) 




them live in the capital, where they make up 
the city's working class, while many more live 
in the countryside, performing agricultural 
labor for the plantation-owners, who possess 
a great deal of the Kingdom's land. The Makai 
usually belong to Ierendi's lower social classes, 
but there are some cases of Makai who 
managed to climb the social staircase and to 
reach a position of economic comfort or even 
of wealth. 

About one-fifth of Ierendi's Makai population, 
mostly located in borderlands area of rain 
forests and low settled uplands, still practices 
a tribal lifestyle, living off forest products 
through gathering and hunting, and keeping 
some of the most ancient and primitive 
customs. These tribes are usually the ones over 
which the Kingdom's government exercises 
little control; they tend to be a little more 
warlike than their kin, and it's not uncommon 
for tribal feuds to go out of control and 
become true wars between tribes in these areas 
- somewhat which put to risk the settled 
population living in the vicinity. 

The other human grouping of Ierendi is that 
of the so-called "settlers" (25%), made up by 
the descendants of the many generations of 
settlers who came to the archipelago in the 
course of the last five centuries. The settlers 
are not at all a homogeneous group; however, 
most of them consider themselves 
"Ierendians", and don't stick to their foreign 
heritage. Their origins range from the first 
convicts and exiles sent there by the Thyatian 
Empire, to the subsequent great number of 
immigrants who came here from various 
nations of the Known World and beyond, to 
the last, tourism-generated immigration of the 
last century - which saw a number of people 
from the continent decide to come to live in 
Ierendi after they visited the islands as tourists. 



The settlers mostly live in the capital town, 
in the area of countryside surrounding it, and 
in the small towns and villages scattered 
around the islands. They keep control of the 
political power, of the government, and of 
most of the islands' economy through their 
influence on mercantile activities, tourism 
trade, financial activities, and plantation 
farming. In fact, the aristocratic families are 
all of settler origins. 

The vast majority of settlers has Thyatian 
origins (66%); they mostly came to the islands 
during the first decades of Thyatian dominion 
over the archipelago (AC 571-602), and 
among them are also found families of 
Hattian heritage, whose ancestors were 
victims of the oppressive politics of the 
Thyatian Emperor of that time, which harshly 
hit some of its political opponents (many of 
which were indeed Hattians). 

The origins of the rest of the settlers are 
almost evenly split between the major 
countries surrounding the archipelago. 
Darokinians, coming both from Darokin itself 
and from the nearby Five Shires, form the 
largest group (8%); then come the 
Traladarans from the nowadays Grand Duchy 
of Karameikos (6%), many of which live in 
Fletcher Island; immigrants from the 
northern country of the Highlands (modern 
Glantri) come next (4%), their number being 
almost equal to that of immigrants from the 
neighboring Colony Islands, that is modern 
Minrothad (4%); another relevant group (6%) 
is made up by minorities coming from a 
whole bunch of disparate countries - 
immigrants from Ylaruam and the Northern 
Reaches realms, sparse people from 
Atruaghin's coastal tribes, people from Sind 
and someone from Yavdlom, to immigrants 
coming from the eastern territories of the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNiiotliab 




Thyatian Empire, like the Isle of Dawn and 
Ochalea. Lastly, a little part of the settlers is 
made up by the secretive group of Common 
Alphatians who live in Honor Island (3%), 
jealously guarding their crafts and secrets there. 

There is a third very small grouping, that of 
the Albino people (4%), all of them living on 
Utter Island. They are descendants of an 
ancient Taymoran servitor race, who managed 
to survive the catastrophes which rocked the 
southern part of the Known World in the 
second millennium BC and preserved its own 
distinctive culture on this corner of the 
archipelago. The Albinos form a cohesive and 
united group; many live in the town of Gaamo, 
the others scattered among various villages 
and isolated houses in Utter Island's hill 
country. 

Halflings (pop. 32,400) 
There are many halflings living in the Ierendi 
islands, most of whom are immigrants from 
the nearby Five Shires. The Hins from the 
north were the first to note the archipelago's 
rich resources exploitable for shipbuilding 
activities, and the first immigrants from the 
Known World were indeed halflings from the 
Shires. Since the first settlements founded by 
them in the islands five hundred years ago, 
Hin immigration toward Ierendi never ceased, 
and today a sizeable part of the islands' 
population and the near totality of the islands' 
demihuman population belongs to the halfling 
race. Like the human settlers, the halflings 
occupy a variety of social positions in Ierendi's 
society, but many halflings are indeed 
comfortable or rich people, and a number of 
the islands' most influent families are Hins. 

Goblins (pop. 8,000) 

It could come as a surprise that a relatively 
high number of common goblins {Goblinus 



goblinus) dwells on the islands. The goblins 
were slaves brought here by the Nithians in 
the last century and a half of their dominion 
over the archipelago (BC 650-500), in the 
effort to break the lizardmen resistance at a 
cheap cost. After the fall of the Nithian 
Empire, the goblins - left without their 
masters - and the native Makai began a long 
series of wars that ravaged the main islands 
for another five centuries, leading to the 
almost total extermination of the goblins. The 
few surviving tribes retreated in barren and 
isolated places, like the uplands and the 
heated cave systems near volcanoes and 
underground lava fields. A large group of 
them was stranded on the desolate Honor 
Island. When the group of Alphatians mages 
arrived in AC 629 and claimed possession of 
Honor Island, they imposed their dominion 
over the local goblins, using them as slaves. 




Honor Island goblins 





138 



THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 




Issue #3 



"C17G DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotftab 




Today, only a few goblin clans are found in 
the wilderness of the islands (around 23% of 
the total goblin population); the Ierendians 
call some of them "black goblins" from the 
darkened color their skin developed during 
their life near volcanoes and lava fields. These 
goblins are usually aggressive toward 
strangers, but frightened by humans, and tend 
to perform raids only in the most dire times, 
when famine threatens them. 

The rest of the goblin population (77%) are 
slaves in Honor Island, used both for menial 
labors, as servitors, and for guard purposes. 
The life of the goblins on the island is harsh, 
but after centuries of servitude they have 
become a docile bunch, posing few or no 
problems to the Alphatian mages who rule 
over them. Their number and breeding are 
closely controlled by the local Alphatians, in 
order to ensure that their population never 
exceeds a given limit. 

Lizardmen (pop. 3,500) 

Lizardmen were once one of the dominant 
races of this region, but their presence has 
been reduced to some thousand individuals 
after the Nithians unknowingly brought in the 
islands a disease-carrying parasite living on 
their cattle, which was deadly for the 
lizardmen. After BC 500, the lizardmen had 
almost disappeared from most of the islands, 
surviving only in the large and hot swamps 
which are found down Mount Ronowac, on 
Roister Island, where a dozen of lizardman 
tribes continue to live to this day (about 40% 
of total lizardman population), harassing the 
local Makai and settler population. 

The rest of the lizardmen (60%) belong to an 
amphibious subrace which retreated in coastal 
shallow waters and deep submerged lagoons 
after the destruction of their kins in BC 500. 



They are mostly found on Ierendi, Safari, 
Aloysius, and Utter islands, but are wary of 
humans - due to the legends told by their 
shamans - and try to avoid contact with them. 

Lupins (pop. 3,000) 

A relevant number of these creatures lives in 
the archipelago, scattered among the human 
settlements; many of them have come from 
the Known World countries, but not few are 
immigrants directly from the Savage Coast - 
they reached the islands on board merchant 
and corsair ships which occasionally tour 
between the two regions. Mongrels are the 
largest lupin group (23%), followed by Great 
Beagles (16%) and Blue Bandits (14%), then 
by Grand Bloodhounds (11%), Shag-Heads 
(11%), and Neo-Papillons (10%). Minorities 
of Eusdrian Bulldogs (7%), Bouchon (4%), 
and Wolvenfolks (4%) are also represented. 

Dwarves (pop. 2,000) 

A small number of dwarves lives in the 
islands; most of them are immigrants from 
the nearby Fortress Island, in Minrothad, 
while a few others are continental dwarves 
coming from Rockhome, Darokin, and 
Thyatis. Dwarven immigrants have all come 
in the last century or so; the legends about 
the first convicts settlements in the 
archipelago relate the presence of a few 
dwarves among them - nevertheless, there 
have never been influential dwarven families 
in the islands, and all traces of older 
immigrants disappear from historical 
accounts about two centuries ago (some 
historians speculate that this may have 
something to do with the Year of Infamy in 
the Highlands) . 

About a half of the dwarven immigrants have 
settled in Aloysius Island, where it has 
entered the growing gold mining activity and 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi Q MiNnotliao 



jewelry trade; the rest is scattered among 
major islands and larger settlements. 

Harpies (pop. 700) 

Many nests of these nasty creatures are found 
among the wilderness and borderlands of the 
archipelago, mostly in the isolated and 
inaccessible rocky and steep reefs or rocky 
outputs which dot the coastlines of the islands. 
Harpies live in nests of about 30-40 
individuals; they are not particularly friendly 
toward passersby, and represent a constant 
danger for individual travelers and small boats. 

Elves (pop. 400) 

Even if legends about the founders of Ierendi 
tell of some elven convicts present among the 
first settlers, none of the aristocratic families 
who trace their origins back to those times has 
true elven blood. A few have indeed some 
traces of elven ancestry, which become visible 
as physical traits in some generations of 
individuals, but that's all. 

The elves scattered here and there among the 
islands' settlements are all recent immigrants, 
who work in the tourist trade, in mercantile 
and trade activities, or as corsairs and pirates. 
About two-thirds of them are water elves from 
Minrothad, some of which work in Ierendi 
town as the Guilds' port agents; the rest are 
wood or fair elves immigrants from the 
continent (mostly from Alfheim, Darokin, 
Karemikos, and Thyatis) or from Alfeisle, in 
Minrothad. 

Fire Elementals (pop. 200) 

Under this entry fall not only the true fire 
elementals, but also other intelligent creatures 
from the Plane of Fire, like helions, efreets, 
fire plasms (both normal and giant), and so 
on. About a third of these creatures is made 
up of planar immigrants who live in Honor 



Island, collaborating and sharing knowledge 
with local Alphatian mages; some of them are 
actually geased to serve these mages. 
Nevertheless, the Alphatians keep most of 
these creatures under disguise, beyond the 
eye of a casual observer. 

The rest are fire creatures found in some of 
the largest underground lava pools, 
volcanoes and heated caves, where they have 
found a natural habitat in the Prime Plane 
akin to that of their own home plane. The 
latter are often in league with other less 
intelligent fire creatures (like flame 
salamanders) or with fire giants. 

Gnomes (pop. 100) 

A small community of earth gnomes lives in 
Honor Island, where they are employed by 
the local mages to help as engineers and 
artificers. Their presence here is due to an 
old agreement that the Honor Island mages 
signed with the Supreme Symposium of 
Gnomish Syndicates in AC 691. The gnomes' 
presence in the island is temporary and a 
given group of them usually stays in Honor 
Island for a season before being replaced by 
another group. These gnomes usually comes 
from the Kingdom of Highforge, in 
Karameikos, while a few come from 
Rockhome, Ylaruam, or other more distant 
places. 

About half of Ierendi's gnomes live in Honor 
Island; the few others live scattered in the 
other islands of the archipelago, working as 
craftsmen, engineers, and traders. 

Fire Giants (pop. 100) 

A number of fire giant clans live in the islands' 
wilderness, near volcanoes and lava deposits. 
These warlike giants rarely cause trouble to 
the islands' government, but small 





140 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Deivioqnapliy of leneNOi Q MiNnofliat) 




'Clie Supueivie Symposium of 
CjNOMisli SyNDicates 

The gnomes of the Known World are not an 
unified people; they have no homeland, like 
the elves' Alfheim, the dwarves' Rockhome, 
and the halflings' Five Shires. The gnomes 
seem to be divided in various races (i.e. 
skygnomes, earthgnomes, forest gnomes, the 
northern gnomes, and the legendary gnomes 
of far-south Davania - and perhaps even 
others), but no one besides gnomes 
themselves (maybe) has ever properly 
classified them. 

A Buief Sum of QNOMisli 
Histouy 

Many centuries ago, the heart of the gnomish 
civilization was located in the Falun Caverns, 
a huge underground complex located under 
the Hardanger Mountains; other large 
gnomish communities existed in modern 
Darokin and Rockhome, also. The Falun 
Caverns were invaded by vicious kobolds in 
BC 490, and in the turn of a century and a 
half the gnomes who survived the onslaught 
had to abandon their home and find shelter 
elsewhere. Since then, a number of gnome 
settlements sprung in various places in the 
Known World and beyond; the larger and 
most famous of these was the city of Torkyn 
Falls, located in the Three Fires Volcanoes 
area of the Wendarian Range. The city was 
badly damaged and abandoned in the course 
of dragon attacks during the Time of the 
Second Dragonlord, at the beginning of the 
6* century AC; most of its inhabitants 
relocated in other countries of the north. 
Today, known gnomish communities of some 
size in the Known World and surroundings 
are found in Rockhome, the Five Shires, 



Darokin, Karameikos, Ylaruam, Thyatis, the 
Heldannic Territories, Wendar, Norwold, 
Stoutfellow (on the Alphatian mainland), 
the Black Mountains and Hule. And then 
there is also the marvelous flying city of 
Serraine. 

HY)G Biutli aNb DevelopivieNt of 
ttje Symposium 

Nevertheless, despite the fact their 
settlements are scattered among various 
distant lands, since the fall of the Falun 
Caverns, the most important gnomish clans 
have continued to keep contact between 
themselves thanks to periodical secret 
meetings of clan representatives; such 
meetings were useful to share informations, 
exchange favors, offer hospitality or 
migration opportunities to refugees, and so 
on. With time the meetings became regular 
(one was held once every three-five years), 
and in BC 207 an organization was created 
to coordinate the meetings and keep 
contacts with all gnomish settlements. Thus 
the Symposium of Gnome Clans was born. 

Centuries passed and the organization 
became more complex, as instead of a 
periodical meeting of clan representatives, 
the Symposium became a semi-permanent 
body with its own officials which took care 
to organize the gatherings and spread 
among the scattered clans word of the 
Symposium's meetings and decisions. The 
Symposium selected its officials among the 
most trusted members of the various clans; 
with time, it managed to have one of its 
officials among the prominent members of 
each major gnomish clan of Brun, and 
recruited the most acknowledged elders and 
vivid minds of each gnomish craft guild and 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? Mi>motl7at) 




community to take part in the Symposium's 
activities. Such duties were still keeping 
contact between the gnomish clans, but also 
to gather informations both in lore and 
technology, try to experiment with new 
inventions and ideas, spy and steal 
technological innovations from other races, 
and so on. 

In AC 463 this organization changed its name 
into Supreme Symposium of Gnomish 
Syndicates. Its leadership was in the hands 
of a council formed by old and learned 
gnomish clanheads, master craftsmen, 
inventors, and priests. This leadership 
periodically met in secret, each time in a 
different place, to discuss things of interest 
to the gnome race as a whole. The members 
of the leading council became more and 
more distant from the actual life of the 
gnomish communities, most of whose 
members were not even aware of the 
Symposium's existance; most activities of the 
Symposium started to be run in secret. 
Obviously, with the passing of centuries, the 
Symposium began to pursue its own aims, 
which were not always in line with those of 
the gnomish clans it theoretically 
represented, with its own treasury, its own 
goals, its own secret relationships with other 
races' governments and realms. 

HY)Q Symposium 'Cobay 

Today, the Symposium still exists, despite the 
fact that this existance is not common 
knowledge. It is led by the Inner Council of 
the Most Enlightened Potentates, made up 
by about ten of the most old, learned, and 
unscrupulous gnomes. In their "actual" life, 
these people are respected or influent 
clanmasters, leaders, kings, intellectuals, 



scientists, inventors, engineers, master 
craftsmen, priests, and rich traders with 
main roles in their communities of origin. 
To better defend the gnomes' (or their own) 
interests, the member of the Council enforce 
a certain (but not absolute) degree of 
secrecy over the Symposium's existance. 

All the members of the Inner Council know 
who each other member is; if one of the 
members dies, the others chose a substitute 
among the most prominent gnome 
personalities abroad, and they can also 
periodically increase their number with the 
addition of another member. Often, the new 
member is contacted by their agents without 
even knowing what the Symposium is. The 
Inner Council has its own treasury to finance 
its activities and enterprises, an archive 
regarding current and recent activities (trade 
agreements, accounting, pacts and treaties, 
etc.), and an historical archive which 
preserves the gnomish race's lore through 
the centuries. 

These three branches of the Symposium's 
possessions are split among various places 
to avoid the risk (which already happened 
two times during history) that the 
destruction of a gnomish settlement put in 
danger the existance of this material also. 
Such management of resources and 
knowledge is somewhat unpractical and 
slow, but the Inner Council's members 
consider the Symposium to be an undying 
organization with themselves only as its own 
occasional instruments, so time is not an 
issue. Knowledge of the treasury and 
archives locations, also, is not shared among 
all Inner Council members: each one of 
them does not know at least one of the 
secret locations among which the treasury 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Deivioqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotftaO 




and archives are split. Such locations may be 
secret places in actual gnomish settlements, 
buildings within other races' cities and towns, 
or in rare cases they may even be found 
within another race's building - for example, 
a secret or rarely-examined section of a 
human library, a secret underground room 
under the mansion of a merchant who trades 
with gnomes, and so on. These places, 
however, are invariably set in places which 
may be easily reached through common 
communication means - towns, cities, and 
so on; you won't find such a place in a cavern 
in the untamed wilderness, or in an isolated 
tower on the top of a mountain. 

Under the Inner Council is the Outer Council 
of the Industrious Stakeholders, made up by 
part-time agents and operatives which carry 
out the Inner Council's decisions. Such 
agents do not usually know more than one 
to three Inner Council members, and are 
often recruited among gnomes with some 



martial or arcane skills. They carry out the 
decisions of the Inner Council, such as 
trading and diplomatic agreements, contacts 
with gnomish settlements and other races' 
communities, recruitment of new members, 
espionage, theft of money or knowledge, 
elimination of rivals or competitors, 
information gathering, recovering parts of 
the Symposium's treasury or archives from 
abandoned or destroyed places, and so on. 

While most gnomes and members of the 
other races alike are not aware of the 
Symposium's existance, the governments of 
some of the realms of the Known World 
have gathered enough informations to 
suspect indeed that there is something like 
a supreme coordination of major gnomish 
interest. Anyway, even if they may manage 
to identify a number of gnomes linked with 
such alleged organization, they lack 
sufficient informations to get the whole 
picture. 



settlements near their lairs may suffer from 
their raids and attacks. Fire giants are often in 
league with other fire creatures. 

FauNa aNb Minor Races 

The following paragraphs describe which 
creatures can be found in the islands of 
Ierendi, including intelligent races whose 
number don't exceed a hundred individuals 
in the region. Creatures are grouped according 
to their monster type (for a definition of 
monster types, see the Rules Cyclopedia or 
DMR2 Creature Catalogue). 

Note that in addition to the following 
creatures, a variety of monster species have 
been imported and bred on Safari Island to 



populate the local tourist attractions (like 
adventure parks) and to make the whole 
place even more alluring for monster hunters. 
Even some rich owners of private villas and 
parks sometimes import strange and foreign 
species to "appease" their hosts. Given the 
quite random nature of such imported 
species, only those native of the archipelago 
or found on most islands are indicated below. 

Animals, Giant 

The archipelago is home to a huge variety of 
giant animals, mostly reptiles and 
amphibians; these species have been hunted 
down in most settled areas, but are still found 
in quantity in scarcely settled ones. Giant 
lizards are found almost everywhere, from 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Deiyioqnaphy of leneNOi Q MiNnothao 




rocky terrain (where the giant gecko and the 
giant tuatara dwell) to the forests (where the 
giant horned chameleon and the giant 
draco are found). Some dangerous giant 
crocodiles have survived in isolated swamps, 
and there are some in Safari Island's 
wilderness preserve. Among giant amphibians, 
giant toads and the dangerous giant 
poisonous frog are found in the wilderness. 

Giant sea life includes the giant crabs found 
in many shallow and coastal areas, and the 
rare giant octopus which lives in the shallow 
waters around some of the islands. 

Giant mammals are represented only by the 
very numerous giant rats, which live almost 
everywhere; other varieties of giant mammals 
are not featured in the islands, besides the very 
rare giant vampire bat, found only in some 
underground caves. 

Animals, Normal 

Domesticated and wild animals of many types 
abound in the archipelago's islands; mammals 
tend to be a minority, mostly represented by 
herd animals like horses, pigs, sheeps, and 
cattle brought from the continent in the past 
centuries. Both domesticated and wild normal 
dogs and normal boars, while present, are 
not native of the islands and likewise were 
imported from the mainland. Among mammal 
wildlife, normal rats and normal bats are 
ubiquitous, and the islands also sport two 
unique species of primates: the white-faced 
gibbons of Elegy Island, and the large white 
apes of White Island (which, contrary to the 
continental variety, don't live in underground 
caves). Sea mammals include a variety of 
whales (killer whales, narwhals and giant 
whales among them), sometimes 
domesticated by local merrows, and the 



friendly dolphins which make up the mounts 
for the allied merrows' sea cavalry. 

Many species of birds dwell in the islands; 
there are varieties of seabirds (like sea gulls), 
and a great number of species of colorful 
tropical birds - parrots, parakeets, cameo 
flamingoes, and the strange birch doves of 
White Island. 

Amphibians and reptiles, however, are the 
true dominant species of the archipelago, 
numerous variant of whom dwell in the 
islands; one of the most rare is the small and 
beautiful leopard salamander (so called due 
to its black-yellow coloration), found in Safari 
Island. Crocodiles of all sizes (both normal 
and large) are found in various shallow water 
areas of the islands, as well as along rivers 
and in some swamps. Snakes abound here, 
from the poisonous pit viper, to the powerful 
rock python found in the forests, to the sea 
snake dwelling in the seas around the 
islands, to the greater cave snake (a variety 
of the continental giant racer), unique of 
Safari Island. 

The clear, shallow waters of the archipelago 
are the home of an infinite variety of fishes. 
Among the most notable of them are the 
normal manta ray, and some species of 
sharks (bull, mako, and the feared great 
white shark), which are sometimes 
domesticated by the merrows. 

Constructs 

Ierendi is not a land of great wizards, but 
eccentric magic-users of foreign (especially 
Glantrian) origin can surely be found with a 
variety of constructs - mostly gargoyles or 
golems of any type - at their service. Such 
constructs are indeed common among the 
Honor Island mages - especially the ones - 
like iron gargoyles or bronze golems - 





144 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNiiothat) 




which are powered through fire elemental 
energies. 

Dragons 

Many dragon varieties dwell in the Ierendi 
islands, mostly belonging to the green, red, 
jade, and ruby species; they live in the deepest 
rain forests, or on the most impervious 
mountain terrain and volcanic peaks. Most of 
them are found in the wilderness of Safari 
Island. The seas are known to host a number 
of sea dragons, the most famous of which is 
Thundar, a female sea dragon whose draconic 
realm of Thundiara lays to the south of 
Aloysius Reefs; from her submerged lair, 
guarded by sea serpents, Thundar plans her 
dominion over the tritons of Sunlit Sea. Among 
dragon-kin creatures, wyverns are quite 
commonly encountered in the wilderness of 
Safari Island. 

Humanoids 

Besides those listed in the main races section, 
the only humanoids worth talking about in the 
Ierendi region are those who live in the Sunlit 
Sea. Under the waves, beyond proper 
Ierendian control, lay the land of the nomadic 
mermen (or merrow), allies of the Ierendian 
government, who often have come to the 
Kingdom's aid in its battles against Thyatian 
imperial power and who still represent one of 
the reasons of the supremacy of the Ierendian 
navy in its waters. The sea around the eastern 
islands of the archipelago is controlled by the 
tritons and their Kingdom of Undersea, which 
is friendly toward the Ierendians and its allies, 
the mermen. Less numerous than these two 
underwater races are the knas, a race of 
fish-like humanoids devoted to trade, and the 
shark-kins, who roam part of the Sunlit Sea. 
Even more rarely encountered are instead the 
delicate and seductive nixies. 



It is worth noting that some rumors hint to 
the presence of local fairies and members of 
the Good Folk in isolated places like deep 
forests, hidden lagoons, and high 
mountaintops. Whether these are only 
individual creatures or parts of the Ierendi 
Islands may be the seat of a local fairy 
kingdom is still matter of speculation. Fact is 
that various types of fairies or fairy-like 
creatures feature prominently in Makai 
legends, folklore, and mythological tales - 
for example, the Makai call menehune a race 
of small forest humanoids, very talented in 
craftsmanship (which some Known World 
scholar has identified with local leprechauns). 

Humanoids, Giant 

Besides the fire giants mentioned in the main 
races section, deep caves connected with 
underground lava deposits are known to host 
a number of rock trolls; these don't belong 
to the same Beastmen-descended race of 
common trolls, but seems to be older 
creatures, with a strong elemental earth 
connection, likely of the same stock of some 
trolls found in the Northern Reaches 
countries. Whatever their origins, they often 
make alliances with fire giants and other 
creatures who live underground. The Sunlit 
Sea hosts many families of sea giants. 

Lowlife 

Most of the settled areas of the islands are 
thankfully free of dangerous varieties of 
insects, arachnids, and the like; normal 
scorpions, however, can be encountered 
everywhere. The southern islands of the 
archipelago (Roister, Aloysius, and Utter) are 
also plagued by the presence of the dread 
"mau-mau" mosquitoes, which carry a deadly 
disease and against which a disinfestation 
must be periodically - where possible - 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e DeMoqnapfty of leneNOi § MiNnotftaO 




carried out. Sometimes these mosquitoes form 
large clouds similar to insect swarms. 

Utter Island is also known to host a large 
number of giant insects, like giant ants, giant 
bees, giant centipedes, robber flies, and 
some varieties of giant beetles (fire, oil, and 
tiger). In the island also dwell giant arachnids 
(giant crab spiders and giant black widow 
spiders in particular), the web of which is 
sometimes used by the native Albino humans 
to fashions curtains for their buildings. Also, 
rhagodessae have been known to attack 
travelers in forested wilderness and 
borderlands. 

A couple of nasty insects species is also found 
in the archipelago: they are the giant locusts, 
which dwell in the rocky, barren areas of most 
islands; and the dangerous steam weevils, 
which are found near the great underground 
lava deposits. 

Also, waters are neither free from the presence 
of dangerous insect types, for both freshwater 
rivers and ponds, swamps, and the seas are 
the home of all the three varieties of water 
termites (swamp, fresh water, and salt 
water) . 

Wormlike creatures are uncommon in the 
archipelago, but present nevertheless. Giant 
leeches infest some of the freshwater bodies 
and the swamps of the islands' interior; 
caeciliae are found in underground areas of 
softer terrain and in bogs (hence their 
Ierendian name, "bog caeciliae"); the gigantic 
mashers dwell in the bottom of the seas; while 
some dread purple worms (called "red worm" 
by the Ierendians) stay dormant underground, 
only resurfacing when something disturb their 
slumber. 

Coming to amorphous lowlife, some parts of 
the Ierendi islands, Safari in particular, host 



creatures like the green slime, the gray 
ooze, and the ochre jelly; the fearsome lava 
ooze can instead be found underground near 
the lava flows and the volcanic cones. 

Monsters 

In the past ages, the islands were the home 
of a great variety of giant reptiles, the so- 
called dinosaurs, which had gone extinct in 
other parts of the world; even if they have 
been hunted down to extinction in most 
islands, some specimens survive in the 
wilderness and in Safari Island's preserve. 
While the largest and deadliest species of 
dinosaurs (like those which can be found in 
the southern Thanegioth Archipelago) are 
gone, in the islands can be found small land 
carnivore, and small and medium land 
herbivore dinosaurs. 

Safari Island is also famous for the many nests 
of flying hydras found in its wilderness. 
Rumors spinned by tourist guides also tell of 
a huge "father of all hydras" which should 
live somewhere in Safari Island's wilderness 
interior, but that rumor is still unconfirmed. 

Volcanic areas, underground heated caves, 
lava deposits, and similar terrain are the 
home of creatures like the vicious hell 
hounds - often found in league with fire 
giants and other fire creature, and the 
dangerous lava lizard. 

Among avian monsters, the most fearsome of 
all is the majestic roc, which has been sighted 
in isolated mountain peaks or in lonely atolls 
in the seas around the Ierendi islands in all 
its three varieties (small, large, and giant). 
Flocks of nasty stirges can instead be found, 
again, in Safari Island's interior. 

Then there are the monsters of the sea: the 
sea horse is a common encounter 





146 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Deivioqnapliy of leneNfci Q MiNuofliat) 




underwater, especially in company of the 
tritons, while the lesser sea serpent is a rarer 
sight. Other larger creatures - like the greater 
sea serpent and the giant turtle (a variety of 
armored aquatic dinosaur) - are 
encountered only very rarely, and most often 
come to life only in the tales of seamen who 
venture in the southern seas beyond Ierendian 
borders. Another dangerous but rare monster 
of the sea is the siren (see the "Siren" sidebar, 
further on), who lures seamen to their doom 
with her charming song. 

Lastly, even if not especially common in the 
archipelago, lycanthropes of neutral behavior 
(wereboars, weretigers, and werebears 
mostly) are tolerated and even employed as 
professionals in adventure parks and in the 
entertainment trade - shapechanging shows 
in public attracts many tourists! This activity 
however is very strictly regulated by the 
government, and any lycanthrope 
shapechanging in public outside tourist shows 
is sure to pass some trouble. On the other 
hand, wild weresharks are known to roam 
the Sunlit Sea. 

Planar monsters 

The islands have their share of planar monsters 
mostly thanks to their link with the Plane of 
Fire through Honor Island, and to the 




presence of so many powerful spots of fire 
elemental energy, like volcanoes and lava 
deposits. Besides beings already mentioned 
in the main races section - efreets, fire 
elementals, hellions, and normal and giant 
fire plasms - the flame salamanders can be 
encountered both in Honor Island and in 
volcanic areas above and underground. 

Additionally, White Island is the home of an 
unique race of planar beings native of the 
Ethereal Plane, the ether weirds, who live 
inside the mysterious icy ponds found on the 
island, put there by the Immortal patron who 
saved the local monks during the last days of 
the Nithian Empire. 

Undead 

Undead don't abound in the Ierendi islands, 
but some unconventional Makai shaman has 
been known to practice necromantic magic 
to raise skeletons and zombies. The ritual 
to create the shrunken zombies known as 
topi is of Makai origin, and these undead may 
still be found somewhere in the archipelago. 
Other undead, like wights and wraiths, while 
rare, sometimes raise spontaneously to 
perform revenge or haunt the place where 
they died tragically. Lastly, there are rumors 
about a lich living under disguise in Elegy 
Island. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ciie Deivioqnapliy of leneNfci Q MiNuofliat) 




Oje DeNizeNS of tlie SuNlit Sea 

The northern reaches of the Sea of Dread, 
where Ierendi and Minrothad archipelagos 
are found, are inhabited by various races of 
sea creatures, first and foremost by merrows 
(or mermen as land-dwellers sometimes call 
them) and tritons. These creatures call this 
part of the sea the Sunlit Sea, due to its 
shallowness which allow for the sunrays from 
above to light it up. 

Merrows are found in large number in the 
waters around Ierendi islands; they migrated 
here from the southern seas after the seismic 
cataclysms of the 18* century BC. The 
merrows are a nomadic people, friend of the 
dolphins, who moves in groups of 50-100 
members, following the fish schools and 
gathering the resources of the sea floor. They 
are friendly toward the Makai and the 
Ierendians in general, and trade with them; 
in exchange for protection of their waters 
and their sacred burial grounds by invaders 
and desecrators from the surface, the 
merrows agreed in AC 748 to help the Royal 
Navy of Ierendi in the defense of the islands, 
and to train its members in sea and 
underwater combat. In past battles against 
the Thyatian Empire (the wars of AC 643-44 
and AC 713-14), the merrows represented a 
formidable allied force for the Ierendian fleet, 
and today they are one of the main reasons 
for the supremacy of the Ierendian navy in 
its territorial waters. 

On the other hand, the tritons are a reclusive 
people, who only occasionally maintains 
relations with the land-dwelling races. They 
mostly live in the region between the 
Ierendian isles of Utter and Safari, and the 
Minrothaddan Trader's, Fortress, and 



Blackrock Islands, where they have built 
their own organized underwater realm, the 
Kingdom of Undersea. Undersea sees the 
tritons as dominant races, but is a 
cosmopolitan realm, where many other 
minorities belonging to other sea races live 
peacefully. Centuries ago (around BC 200), 
during the time of their migration in the 
Sunlit Sea, the tritons made war against the 
local merrow to carve a territory for 
themselves; the struggle went on for 
centuries and, after the tritons' victory, 
grudge between the two races continued 
for decades. After many years of peace, 
however, the tensions cooled down and 
friendly relations slowly developed between 
the two peoples. While not formally allied 
with the Kingdom of Ierendi, Undersea 
keeps friendly relations with it, being instead 
more wary of the Minrothaddans. 

This is due to an historical fact. During the 
rule of Missan Meditor as Ruling 
Guildmaster of Minrothad (AC 862-887), the 
race of sea traders known as the knas 
refused to accept the Guilds' regulations 
over trade, which had the aim to establish 
their monopoly over merchant activity in 
their archipelago. The knas began a series 
of raids against Guilds' shipping, and in AC 
880 the Guilds retaliated with an assault to 
the underwater communities of the knas; 
many families of these creatures were 
ruthlessly butchered and slaughtered, and 
the knas ultimately had to abandon trade in 
the Guilds' waters - but a deep hatred still 
runs in the knas' heart toward the 
Minrothaddans, and other underwater races 
still remember the ruthlessness which the 
Guilds demonstrated in that occasion. 





148 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Deivioqnapliy of leneNOi Q MiNnotliaO 




THE QUILDS OF 
MINROTHAD 

MiNROtliabDaN PopulatioN in 
Official Souuces 

GA29 The Minrothad Guilds represents the 
main sources about the Guilds' population 
and demography. Further population figures 
for the archipelago are found in TM2 The 
Eastern Countries, and in the three volumes 
of the Poor Wizard's Almanac series. 
Unfortunately, the population figures provided 
by these sources are not consistent at all one 
another. Now we will take a look at each of 
them. 

First of all, GAZ9 is quite clear in establishing 
Minrothad's population at 280,000 people, 
with an urban population (towns and cities 
with 10,000 people or more) reaching a very 
high rate of 29%. GAZ9 also set the islands' 
surface area at 6,552 square miles, thus 
resulting in a population density of 42.7 
people per square mile. Unfortunately, a rough 
measurement of surface area made on GAZ9's 
poster 8-miles per hex map shows that the 
surface area given in gazetteer was 
miscalculated. 

TM2 instead lists the Guilds' population and 
surface area, setting the former at 131,300 
people, and the latter at 8,120 square miles. 
While this surface area seems more consistent 
with the re -measurement of the islands' 
surface done on GAZ9's poster hex map, the 
listed population is definitely way too low to 
support an urban population of 80,000 - 
97,000 if you include in the count towns with 
less than 10,000 people - which would result 
in a high industrial age urban : rural 
population ratio (i.e. 61% : 39%). Thus the 
listed population seems quite unacceptable if 



one wants to keep firm the population figures 
given in GAZ9 for the archipelago's cities and 
towns. 

Then, there are the figures found in the PWAs, 
which list Minrothad's surface area as being 
8,120 square miles (thus making it consistent 
with TM2's figure), and its population as 
being 135,000 people - apart from the 
population figure found in PWA3, which gives 
- giving only as explanation an influx of 
refugees from Thyatis in the last year, whose 
number frankly seems excessive - a figure of 
208,000. Now, the first two PWAs' figure 
generates the same problems as the TM2's 
one, while the one of the third issue seems 
very much a mistake for GAZ9's figure of 
280,000 and not something having a 
reasoning behind it. 

While correct surface area appears to be 8,120 
square miles, that is the one provided by TM2 
and the PWAs, among the inconsistent 
population figures, it seems that the more 
acceptable one be that given in GAZ9, that is 
280,000 people. This, coupled with correct 
surface area, would mean an archipelago with 
a 35.5 population density, which is quite 
acceptable for a nation like Minrothad - quite 
settled, farmed, and (apart from Alfeisle, and 
at least according to GAZ9's descriptions) 
deforested, undisturbed by wars, dramatic 
events, or population losses for the last five 
centuries, and the very heart of this region of 
Mystara's sea trade. 

ADjustiNQ a Little MiNRotliab's 
PopulatioN 

So, all in all, selected canonic sources about 
Minrothad end up giving reasonable 
population figures. Nevertheless, to be 
properly satisfied by Minrothad's population 
figures, we will have first to adjust them a 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie DeMoquapfty of leneNfci Q MiNnotftaC) 
m 




little in order to make them consistent with 
the alternative demography described in the 
previous paragraph for the Kingdom of 
Ierendi, as well as with the one found in 
Threshold #1 and regarding the population 
of the Grand Duchy of Karameikos. This will 
mean raising a little Minrothad's population 
to reflect the Guilds' status as an island nation 
half the size, but double the population 
density of the Kingdom of Ierendi, whose 
different history and later settlement would 
explain this gap. 

As in the previous paragraph, we will make 
these adjustments with an eye to the real-world 
population densities of 15 th century Europe - 
the real world historical setting which inspired 
Mystara's Known World. Again, for simplicity's 
and uniformity's sake, we will make use of the 
same density ranks that we used in the 
previous paragraph and in the article about 
Karameikos' demography in the first issue of 
"Threshold". 



An Oveuall Look at ttje 
MiNRotliaD Isles 

The whole area of the seven main islands of 
the Minrothad archipelago totals 8,120 square 
miles, with a surface area comparable to that 
of real-world countries like El Salvador, 
Slovenia, or Israel, or to the US state of New 
Jersey; Trader's Isle alone is about the same 
size of the island of Crete, Greece. A great 
number of tiny islets, atolls, and small islands 
- most of which are of volcanic origin, while 
a few others are made of coral growth atop 
volcanic rock foundations. Some of these 
atolls are uninhabited, but some others are 
the refuge of lonely fishermen, pirates, or 
simply small havens for a tired crew who has 
been too long at sea. 

The Minrothad Guilds are one of the most 
widely settled areas of the Known World. The 
36% of the land has an average or better level 
of settlement, and - adding in the low- 
settlement areas - we see that most of the 
archipelago (67%) shares some level of 
settlement. Borderlands only make up for the 
24% of the whole surface, while wilderness 



Table 3: Minrothad's Racial Groups 

Racial Group 

Humans 
Demihumans 
Elves 
Water Elves 
Wood Elves 
Halflings 
Dwarves 
Other Creatures 
Lupins 
Harpies 
TOTAL 



Total Racial Population 


% on Total 
Population 


160,800 


39.70% 


239,900 


59.2% 


166,900 


41.2% 


113,800 


28.1% 


53,100 


13.1% 


43,100 


10.6% 


29,900 


7.4% 


4,700 


1.1% 


4,400 


1.1% 


300 


Neglibigle 


405,400 


100% 



? 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"die DeMoqiiapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotftaC) 
rm 




are only 10% of the total - mostly represented 
by volcanic terrain on Fire, Fortress, and 
Blackrock islands, and by the unsettled 
Gregus' Ridge mountain chain on Alfeisle. 
Nevertheless, 85% of Minrothad's population 
lives in 36% of the land - that is the areas with 
average or better level of settlement; only 15% 
of the population lives in lower settled areas. 

About half the whole population of the Guilds 
dwells on Trader's Isle, the largest and most 
populous island of the archipelago, while 
another quarter lives on Alfeisle; the two major 
islands of the archipelago thus end up hosting 
the three-quarters of its population. 

Total population of the Minrothad Guilds is 
about 405,400 people, with the 160,800 
humans being only a minority (39.7%); most 
of the population (59.2%) belongs to the 
demihuman races, among which elves are the 
most numerous (166,900 people - albeit 
divided between water and wood elves), 
followed by halflings (43,100 people), and 
dwarves (29,900 people). From the point of 
view of humans and demihumans, Minrothad 
is thus one of the most multiethnic countries 
of the Known World. No other major racial 
group dwells in the archipelago, and other 
races account for only 7,500 people - almost 
wholly made up by the lupin population. 
These numbers take into account only the 
races who are represented by not less than 
100 members in the country. Average 
population density for the whole country is 
about 49-9 people per square mile, thus 
making Minrothad one of the more densely 
settled realms of the Known World. 

Table 3 shows the distribution of the 
archipelago's population among major racial 
groups. 



LaND CoNtuol aNb 

CjOVGRNMGNt 

The Minrothad Guilds are a sort of federation 
of different racial guilds, each of which exerts 
political control over one area of the 
archipelago and oversees a number of 
specialized trades and crafts. The federation 
is held together by a central government 
whose seat is in the city of Minrothad. The 
origin of the Guilds' confederated 
government can be traced back to AC 691 
and to the "Second Unifier", the wood elf 
Gregus Verdier; the confederation turned 
into a federation, with the establishment of 
the executive role of Ruling Guildmaster, only 
after the end of the Council of Minrothad's 
reforms, in AC 862. 




Guildmasters of Minrothad 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e Deivioqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotftaO 




Most power - both economical and political 
- lies in the hands of the Guildmasters of the 
five major family guilds; each of these five 
guilds has national monopoly over a series of 
trades and crafts, which in turn are managed 
by lesser associate guilds. Each family guild is 
dominated by one of the main races who dwell 
in the archipelago. Guild Corser is 
predominantly human, and oversees a number 
of selected luxury trades and crafts like spices, 
wine, trained animals, and alchemical 
substances; Guild Hammer, controlled by 
dwarves, deals in trades and crafts regarding 
minerals and stone (mines and quarries, 
masonry, smithing, and so on); Guild Elsan, 
the water elf family guild, deals with sea- 
related crafts like shipbuilding, fishing, 
shellworking, and also oversees teaching of 
sailing and navigation crafts; Guild Quickhand, 
dominated by halflings, deals with 
leatherworking, basic crafts (glass, baskets, 
pottery, items made of horn), and fuels 
(candles, oils, and charcoal); and Guild 
Verdier, the wood elf family guild, controls 
trades and crafts regarding cloth and wood, 
like woodcutting, woodworking, carpentry, 
bowmaking, spinning, weaving, and so on. 
Through its own associate guilds, each of the 
five major guilds' control over its trades and 
crafts extends to the whole archipelago. 

The five heads of the family guilds form the 
Council of Guild Leaders, which holds 
legislative and executive powers. This actually 
makes Minrothad a guild-ruled plutocracy; 
each Family Guild Leader has one vote at the 
Council, and its office - both at the Council 
and as head of its guild - is hereditary. The 
Council decides the Guilds' foreign policy, 
declares wars and signs treaties, appoints 
diplomats and ambassadors to other nations, 
passes laws regarding trade practices 
(including duties and tariffs), general guild 



regulations, and government affairs. The 
Council is actually a sort of executive 
committee of the larger General Council of 
the Guilds and States (see below). 

The Council is presided by the Ruling 
Guildmaster, the Guilds' head of state, who 
is traditionally a member of the Meditor water 
elf ruling clan; the Ruling Guildmaster does 
not has a vote at the Council, but has one 
when voting at the Council results in a draw 
(due to the absteinment of one or more 
members from the vote). The Ruling 
Guildmaster has always had a largely 
ceremonial role, but in the last decade - since 
the young Oran Meditor was nominated to 
this office - it has acquired a greater influence 
in the country's government, de facto 
beginning to exercise an active presidential 
role, more and more taking away executive 
powers from the hands of the Council in 
order to exert them itself. The authoritarian, 
but reform-oriented, rule of Oran Meditor 
has spurred fierce opposition and intrigue 
among the family guilds, some of which are 
plotting to have the current Ruling 
Guildmaster removed. 

To serve as its executive arm, the Ruling 
Guildmaster also appoints a cabinet of 
advisors, who act like other countries' 
ministers. The most important of them are 
the First Advisor (a sort of deputy and right 
arm of the Ruling Guildmaster, and minister 
of the interior), the First Consort (a role 
introduced by Oran Meditor and held by his 
wife, overseeing ceremonial and social 
functions of the government), the Master 
Treasurer (a minister of treasury and 
finances), and the Master of the Ruling 
Guildmaster's Agents (the head of the secret 
service and of the Ruling Guildmaster's own 
security force). 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNiiotliat) 




Then there are the political guilds, that is 
guild-structured organizations which oversee 
services and activities of political and national 
interest. The most important of these are the 
Merchant Sailors Guild, devoted to import- 
export trade; the Mercenary Guild, a standing 
force devoted to the defense of the archipelago 
and of its ships; and the Tutorial Guild, which 
oversees training and education in all fields 
all over the islands, keeps monopoly on 
magic-use in Minrothad, and functions as high 
justice court and appeal court for lesser justice 
managed by local government guilds. Each of 
these guilds has its own associate guilds which 
take care of particular areas of their duty. The 
political guilds are independent from the 
family guilds and, while they may surely be 
influenced by them, since Oran Meditor came 
to power they have represented a strong 
support for the Ruling Guildmaster's struggle 
against the family guilds. 

Local government is handled by the so-called 
"local government guilds", which are nothing 
more than political bodies which oversee local 
government of an island or part of it, including 
bureaucracy, law enforcement, and low justice; 
following the country's custom, each local 
government is considered a guild in itself. 
Actual form of local government, however, 
depends on the region; history and customs 
of each area have resulted in a different local 
way to handle political affairs, the only things 
in common being the fact that each local 
government answers to the Council of Guild 
Leaders. For example, local government 
among Alfeisle's elves is based on clan 
structure, with council of hereditary clanheads 
being the main ruling body presided by the 
oldest, most prestigious or powerful clanhead. 
On Open Island, nearby villages are united in 
shires, each of which democratically elects its 
own sheriff and a couple of delegates to take 



part in the isle's ruling assembly in Malfton, 
presided by a Seneschal elected for life. On 
Trader's Isle the territory is divided into small 
baronies and lordships (some actually ruled 
by a Baron or Lord, other such only in name 
and ruled by an elected Seneschal), each of 
which is governed by its own assembly made 
up by representatives of the rural noble 
landowners and of the city-dwelling 
guildmasters. Local governments are usually 
heavily influenced by the Family Guild which 
has control over trades and crafts most 
important for their region. While this may 
appear confusing, the system developed by 
Gregus Verdier in AC 691 functioned because 
the persons appointed as heads of the Family 
Guilds were all already powerful and influent 
individual in their own local government, 
thus establishing an easy link between local 
government and the Guilds' national 
government. This does not mean that things 
go on smoothly: the political struggle among 
different guilds and branches of the 
government is fierce, and intrigue is hidden 
behind each political maneuver. 

The capital city of Minrothad is a sort of 
neutral territory whose government answers 
directly to the Ruling Guildmaster, who 
appoints its Seneschal; this ensures that, at 
least within the city walls, the plotting families 
and guilds may find a safe ground for 
agreements and pacts. 

Last in real power but first in institutional 
importance is the General Council of the 
Guilds and States, a larger assembly which 
theoretically represents the whole population 
of the archipelago. The General Council is 
made up by 40 delegates sent by the local 
governments of the various provinces in 
which the islands are subdivided (as could 
be expected, Alfeisle and Trader's Isle are the 
two most represented islands). Delegates at 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie DeMoqnaplry of ieneNfci Q MiNnotrjat) 




the General Council are often guildmasters 
themselves, or officials of the local 
government, or members of aristocratic 
families - or a combination of all three. Until 
the Council of Minrothad (AC 850-862), the 
General Council exerted a quite high deal of 
influence in the government, as it was the true 
government body of the Guilds, with 
responsibility over approval of national laws, 
foreign policy, tax collection and assessment, 
administration of the army and the navy, and 
so on. Since then, the Council of Guild Leaders 
functioned essentially an executive committee 
of the General Council. However, in the last 
century or so, true decisional power has slowly 



slipped in the hands of the Council of Guild 
Leaders, with the General Council relegated 
to a largely advisory role. Customarily, the 
General Council is gathered once per year to 
approve the next year's budget, to appoint 
the General-Captain of the Guilds' army and 
the General-Admiral of the navy in times of 
war, and in extraordinary session to decide 
over important treaties or declarations of war. 
The Council of Guild Leaders usually gives 
"instructions" to the General Council, that is 
suggestions (little less than orders) about 
what the Family Guildmasters expect the 
result of the vote to be. 



X1Y)Q CjOVRNMNt Of tY)Q QuilbS 

Official products did never give too much details 
about how the Guilds administered their own 
territory. GAZ9 gives us an account of the Guilds' 
national government - the Ruling Guildmaster, 
the Council of Guild Leaders, the capital's 
Seneschal, and the Tutorial Guild's function as 
high justice court - but says nothing about local 
government. In a handful of places, GAZ9 
mentions "local government guilds", "the 
constabulary, a division of the local government 
security guild", "the local retail tax collector", 
and "a first guild advisor who interacts with local 
government", but gives no account of what this 
local government is. 

Module X10 Red Arrow, Black Shield says 
instead that "the isle of Minrothad is divided 
into many small baronies. The baronies form 
trading guilds, each with its own plot of land. 
The government is run by the heads of the 
various trading guilds. [...] The PCs can arrange 
a meeting with the Guild's Council to discuss a 
potential alliance. The Council is made up of 40 
of the most powerful guild leaders and barons." 
It's obvious that GAZ9 was written without this 
passage in mind, but it could be of some use to 



further detail the government of Minrothad; 
presence of a nobility of sort is not 
unreasonable either, as GAZ9 also says, 
regarding Harbortown, that in "Old Town [ . . . ] 
are old and aristocratic residences", and that 
Trader's Isle has had a past history of 
employment of slave labor (especially halfling 
labor) and likely, given the Nithian origins of 
its population, plantation farming. GAZ4 The 
Kingdom of Ierendi in fact informs us that 
plantation farming was introduced in Ierendi 
by the Nithians; the same happened 
preasumably also in Minrothad, which was 
conquered a century before. Lastly, module X7 
War Rafts of Kron mentions that, among other 
things, the Guildmasters of Minrothad will offer 
the PCs a small (6 square miles) island next to 
Minrothad as reward - which may suggest a 
sort of landowner-managed local government. 

Putting together all these elements, and 
drawing inspiration from the Renaissance age 
government of the real-world Republic of the 
Seven United Provinces of the Netherlands, I 
have tried to clarify some of the details of the 
Guilds' government, both local and national, 
in the paragraph "Land Control and 
Government". 





154 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CI7G DeMoqiiapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotftaO 




LaND OccupatioN aNb Social 
Classes 

As said above, the archipelago is one of the 
most settled areas of the Known World; 
nevertheless, not every corner of it share the 
same population density. Very high density 
areas are found in the farmlands around main 
cities of Trader's Isle, that is the city of 
Minrothad and Harbortown, from the city walls 
themselves up to 5-10 miles away. The area 
around Cove Harbor, on Fire Island, also 
counts as a very high density area. A great 
number of farms and villages is found in these 
regions. 



Then there are high density areas, which 
include almost all the western, northern, and 
eastern coastline of Trader's Isle and part of 
the inland area, and the surroundings of the 
other islands' main cities - Stronghold on 
Fortress Island, Gapton on North Island, 
Malfton on Open Island, and Seahome on 
Alfeisle. More than a third of the Guilds' 
population lives there. These regions, like 
the high density ones, have seen a great deal 
of deforestation during centuries, and now 
they are filled with cultivated lands, orchards, 
and pasturelands for herd animals - as well 
as with the properties of rich landowners. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CI7G DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotftat) 




Another third or so of the Guilds' population 
live in average density areas, which include 
most of the southern coasts and some of the 
interior of Trader's Isle, most coastal areas of 
Alfeisle, the eastern coast and the valley of the 
Quickhand River on Open Isle, the areas 
between Gapton and the eastern and southern 
coasts on North Isle, the larger area around 
Stronghold on Fortress Island, and the small 
eastern coastal strip on Blackrock Island. A 
number of activities, both pertaining to 
agriculture or herding and to guild trades or 
crafts, are practiced in these regions, making 
most of these areas economically important 
for the Guilds. 

The rest of the country's land is somewhat 
considered a backward area by the 
government, both in infrastructures and 
population. Low density areas include the 
inland area around the Diamond Spurs on 
Trader's Isle, most of North Island's territory 
(except for the mountains), the rest of Open 
Isle's surface area, a small strip of land around 
the fishing-devoted villages of the coastline on 
Blackrock Island, and a large strip of land 
circling the coastlines of Alfeisle inland (and 
including some of the southern and western 
coasts as well) . 

Borderlands extend beyond the limits of a 
decent level of settlement; few people live 
there, not because of dangerous monsters of 
inhabitants, but because the lands are 
uninteresting from an economic point of view, 
or because these lands have not seen a decisive 
effort of settlement by the government. 
Nevertheless, some important activities, such 
as mining, often take place in some borderland 
spots. Borderlands include the Diamond Spur 
chain and the deepest forests on Trader's Isle, 
the area farthest from Stronghold (save for 
Mount Redtongue and vicinities) on Fortress 



Island, the mountains of North Island, the 
inland area around Gregus' Ridge and a 
stretch of the southern forests on Alfeisle, 
and the inland area before the volcanic 
landscape around Old Nenthead on 
Blackrock Island. 

Wilderness areas are few in the Minrothad 
archipelago, and limited to the most 
dangerous volcanic areas or to the most 
impervious mountains - that is the Gregus 
Ridge chain on Alfeisle, and the areas around 
Mount Redtop and Old Nenthead on Fortress 
and Blackrock islands, respectively. Fire 
Island, which has been declared off-limits to 
settlement and to ships by the government, 
can be considered - apart its hidden port of 
Cove Harbor and vicinities - wilderness 
terrain. 

Social classes in Minrothad are quite more 
blurred than in other countries. This is mostly 
due to the decline of traditional, landowning- 
oriented aristocracy in the past century and 
the consolidated primacy of a class of city 
patricians whose wealth depends on trading 
and manufacturing activities. Nevertheless, 
Minrothad has an aristocracy of sorts, mostly 
human and descended from the old 
Minrothian and Alphatian leading families of 
Trader's Isle, where they account for about 
2% of the island's population. Some of them 
still bear old hereditary titles of "Barons" or 
"Lords", albeit deprived of any powers 
besides social status and that which may 
derive them from their influence in guild or 
local government affairs. Minrothaddan 
aristocracy does not conduct a lifestyle much 
different from that of the high-ranking 
guilders; they own lands and often a still 
important part of their wealth comes from 
land rents and farming activities, but many 
have entered the guild system as well in order 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotliaO 




to improve their riches and increase their 
political power. On Alfeisle, aristocracy 
consists of the clanmasters and their families 
and relatives, who usually devote themselves 
to guild activities and do not own great deals 
of land (also due to the customs of elves 
regarding land property, which is mostly left 
to common usage). The halflings and the 
dwarves don't have proper aristocracy, nor do 
the other lesser islands who have been settled 
only more recently. 

Of the rest of the archipelago's population, 
only about a 60% works in farming activities 

- one of the lowest percentages of the Known 
World. Farming activities may be directly 
guild-related - such as grapes cultivation, 
whose products are then sold to the 
winemakers of Guild Corser, or cattle-rising, 
whose production of leather and horn is then 
passed to Guild Quickhand - or not; the latter 
is the case of general agricultural products, 
such as grain, cereals, olive oil, milk, cheese, 
flour, vegetables, fruits, meat, and so on. Some 
of these good are produced for local 
consumption, while some other are exported 

- including some plants grown for the luxury 
trade, such as coffee and tea. Even the selling 
of goods which are not directly linked to gild 
manufacturing is managed through proper 
trading guilds. Contrary to the rural 
population of the continent, Minrothad's 
farmers are not subject to feudal obligations 
and have a decent lifestyle thanks to the 
richness of the Guilds' farming activities; 
families who possess their own plot of lands 
are nevertheless few, especially on Trader's 
Isle, as landownership is mostly in the hands 
of old aristocratic families and of guilder 
families, who acquired lands in the course of 
the years thanks to the wealth accumulated 
through trade. Most rural population thus 




works on fields rented from landowners, or 
receives a wage to work on the owners' lands. 

About 40% of the population of the 
archipelago belongs to a guild or another; 
this means the almost whole urban adult 
population of the islands, and a little more 
than half of their adult rural population. 
There is a guild for almost everything - most 
control a trade, craft, or service going from 
the most simple and menial to the most 
specialized and luxurious. Guild membership 
ranges from the high-ranking guild officers 
and masters, to craftsmen, workers, and 
apprentices who make up the bulk of most 
guilds. Not all guilds share the same social 
configuration; guilds which deal with fishing 
or woodcutting, for example, include a 
number of lower middle-class members 
higher than those dealing with, say, spice 
trade. Also, not all trade guilds are associated 
to one of the five family guilds; some trades 
and activities, like innkeeping, butchering, 
grocery, parchment-making, bookbinding 
and selling, baking, pharmacy, notary's 
activity, moneylending, and some others, are 
managed by local guilds which don't operate 
on the national level - meaning that one 
could find more than one Bakers' Guild in 
the archipelago (typically one or more per 
island). Family guilds discourage further 
organization of these lesser guilds on the 
national level, as they would fall out of their 
direct control, preferring instead to keep 
them in check through their political and 
economical influence; on the other hand each 
of these lesser local guilds is way too small 
and weak to initiate a struggle against the 
family guilds through a process of unification 
with other similar guilds. 

Social class in the Minrothad Guilds is 
determined by one's rank within one of the 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G DeMoqiiapliy of leneNOi £? Miivmotliat) 




rH 

u 
h-l 

d 

CU 

a 



u 
c/5 

u 

rH 

?a 

H 



d 

is .a d 
o 2 M 



cm 




d 

o 



OJO 



H . IP 

H <M *J *J 

t« i +- 

SI 8 3 



u 

OJD 

g 



5 * & 
a .2 d g 



o 

Oh 



Oh .2 d a 
o u 5 



S3 cu 

o SP 

1 



d 

cu 

OJD 

2 
1 



U U i 

U Of) g ^ 

a^^d g ojd 



«4H 





<W SB 



CU 

1 

d 



u 

S cu 
co -d 



a 

cu 

OJD 

I 

1 



d 

u 

s 

u 



?M CU 



o 
o 

rH 

m 



o 
o 
o 

+ 



o 

m 

rH 
U 

o 



CN 
CN 



6J0 

X 

£ 

<l> 

> 



o 
o 
m 



o 
o 
o 

© 
+ 



o 



o 

m 

rH 

in 

co 



cn 
m 



a 



CN 

m 



o 
o 

CN 



o 
o 
o 

rn 

rH 

+ 



m 

^0 



op 

rH 



CN 
CN 



CN 
ON 



CN 



cu 
CJO 

u 

I 



CN 



O 

o 

m 

o~ 
m 



cn 



o 

X T 
6 



o 

m 



CN 



O 



o 
o 
o 



m 



CN 



o 



t/2 

u 

"S 

o 

CQ 



o 



o 
o 

CN 



d 



rH 

J 

CU 

CQ 



o 



00 



CU 

d 

u 

T3 



O 

o 



o 
o 

00 

o 



o 
o 
o 

r' 

ON 
+ 



CN 

r 



CN 



o 
o 



o 

CN 
rH 

00 



in 



i 

o 

H 



0C 



T3 

1) 



cu 

rC 



T3 

X! 



d 

o 

'?d 

a 
o 
a 

(L> 

?M 

d 



(LI 

X5 



3 

Z 



£ 

o 

o 



U 

<H 

cs 

K 

u 

?M 

d 

OJO 



cu 
d 

CU 
Xi 

c 
'S 

IB 

(LI 

2 

CU 

1 ^ 



O 

Vh 

(LI 
N 



.8 



cu 

OJO 

d 



(LI 

u 

zi 

d 

cr 

72 

cu 
a 

(LI 



d 

o 

CJ 

CU 
X! 



O 

(Li 

a 

/  

V2 

u 
'd 
'0 

u 
O 

£ 
.£ c 

'3 2 
d © 

rH 

.9 1-1 

'd s  ' 

3 S 

art 



« o 

* 
* 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie DeMoqnapliy of ieneNfci Q MiNnottiat) 
m 




trading and crafting guilds. In fact, the Guilds 
are a society characterized by a formal 
hierarchy which assigns a person to one of six 
castes depending on his or her station within 
the guild. This system developed in the course 
of the last centuries, as traditional class 
distinctions lost their importance with the rise 
of the guilders, and one's station within his or 
her guild was the only thing that mattered; 
slowly, this system extended to the whole 
society, not only to the guilds. The six castes 
range from the first, which includes guild 
laborers, workers, and apprentices, to the 
sixth, which includes the guild leaders; 
common guild members belong to the second 
caste. A caste identifies one person's social 
status, influence (and skill) within its guild, 
and, often, wealth - but there are exception, 
as the higher castes are only attainable through 
a high level of experience and skill in the 
guild's trade or craft, thus it's not uncommon 
to see a very wealthy guildmember who 
however never went past the third caste. 
Castes are not completely rigid, either; hard 
work and talent can push a person higher in 
the caste system, even if it's quite unlikely that 
a skilled person without ties with important 
families, political offices, or a certain degree 
of wealth, could rise beyond the third caste. 
Minrothaddans not belonging to a guild - 
farmers, herders, unskilled workers and 
laborers (including servants and maids) - are 
considered to belong to the first caste for what 
regards social matters, even if they are not 
proper members of any guild. Aristocratic 
landowners not belonging to a guild (very few, 
indeed) are considered part of the fourth caste, 
while commoner landowners are usually 
considered part of the second caste. Of the 
whole Minrothaddan population, about 55% 
belongs to the first caste (including people 
not belonging to a guild), 35% to the second, 



8% to the third, less than 2% to the fourth, 
and less than 1% to the fifth and sixth. 

Table 4 shows the settlement levels of the 
Guilds, indicating the number of hexes (on 
GAZ9's poster 8-miles per hex map) 
belonging to each level and the number of 
people (all races) living in it. 

UubaN PopulatioN 

The islands ruled by the Minrothad Guilds 
have a sizeable portion of urban population 
(that living in towns and cities with 10,000 
people or more), reaching 19.7%. While there 
are not very big cities in the archipelago, the 
many large towns and the couple of cities 
which dot the isles makes the Guilds one of 
the countries with the highest urban: rural 
population ratio in the Known World. In fact, 
if we add to the count of urban population 
the people who live in small towns with less 
than 10,000 inhabitants, the archipelago's 
urban population rises to 23-9%. Urban 
population also represent the bulk of the 
nation's guild members. 

Besides towns and cities, there is a vast 
number of farming and fishing villages 
scattered through the countryside, especially 
on Trader's, Open, and North islands. Coastal 
and woodland villages also abound on Alfeisle. 

Due to the recent rescission of the Isolation 
Act by the current Ruling Guildmaster, and 
to the start of immigration-favoring policies, 
urban population is quite likely going to raise 
in Minrothad, enlarging some of its town and 
cities or upgrading some of its villages to 
small towns. 

Here follows a list of the Guilds' known 
settlements, along with their population, if 
known. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G Deivioqnapliy of leneNfci Q MiNnotiiaO 




SGReNbib aNb Lady DaukRook 

A couple of official sources mention the 
Minrothaddan city of Serendib. The 
adventure The Djinni's Ring by V. Garcia, 
featured in Dungeon Magazine #9, mentions 
"the port of Serendib, one of the cities of the 
Minrothad Guilds". The adventure The Isle 
of the Storm Giant featured in AC 10 Bestiary 
of Dragons and Giants, gives some additional 
details: "The port of Serendib has long been 
a prosperous trading center where exotic 
goods from around the world are offered for 
sale and barter. Much of the credit for the 
city's bustling commerce lies with the 
effective guidance of its powerful merchants' 
guild, which possesses trading agreements 
with sovereign and business people from 
many foreign lands", also mentioning "the 
fortress-estate of Lady Darkrook, the powerful 
guildmistress" who is "the beautiful if 
somewhat ruthless head of the merchants' 
consortium". But where is Serendib? There 
are two possible ways to handle the answer. 

The first is the simple one. 'Serendib' is the 
Arabic and Persian word with which the 
merchants coming from the Middle East 
called the island of Sri Lanka; thus in 
Minrothad, 'Serendib' could simply be the 
name that the Alphatians gave to Harbortown, 
or even the name which in Minrothad Patois 
means Harbortown, that is the name of the 
town itself as heard by foreign ears. In this 
case, Lady Darkrook may be a powerful 
member of Harbortown's local government, 
surely a high-ranking member of Guild 
Corser, and the head of some guild trading 
luxury goods and associated with Guild 
Corser (a guild which should be in addition 
to those indicated in GAZ9) . 



The second answer is that Serendib is 
another city to be added to the map of the 
Minrothad Guilds. As a prosperous trade 
city, it should have at least 10,000 ihabitants. 
As Lady Darkrook is not mentioned to 
belong to another race, likely AC 10 assumes 
that she be human; this would likely make 
Serendib a human city, and thus the best 
place to put it would be Trader's Isle, again, 
maybe in the coast opposite of Harbortown, 
between Duns-on-Fell and Newport Keep. 
Another option would be placing it on 
Alfeisle's western coast, where the sea route 
coming from Minrothad and the one coming 
from Malfton meet in correspondence of 
one of the island's spurs; in the latter case, 
however, you will need to devise a good 
reason explaining the presence of a human- 
led city on Alfeisle (or, alternatively, you 
could simply consider Lady Darkrook a 
water elf). If you make Serendib an 
additional city, you will have more freedom 
in determining who Lady Darkrook actually 
is; anyway, it's likely that she is a member 
of Guild Corser, given that the city prosper 
on the trade of luxury goods, or alternatively 
she could be a high-ranking official of the 
Import or Export Guilds, associates of the 
Merchant Sailors Guild. 

The addition of a large town or even a city 
does not represent a problem for the 
urban:ratio population if you use the figures 
indicated in this article. Even making 
Serendib a city of 15,000 people, for 
example, would simply raise the urban 
population of the archipelago to 27%, which 
is still very much acceptable, considering 
the type of country Minrothad is. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"Ci7e Deiyroqnaphy of leneNfci Q MiNnotftaO 




Cities and Large Towns: Alfeisle: Seahome 
(pop. 20,000), Verdon (pop. 13,000). Fortress 
Island: Stronghold (pop. 10,000). Trader's 
Isle: Harbortown (pop. 12,000), Minrothad 
(pop. 25,000). 



Small Towns: Fire Island: Cove Harbor 
(pop. 7,000). North Island: Gap ton (pop. 
5,000). Open Isle: Malfton (pop. 5,000). 

Villages: Blackrock Island: Hermian. North 
Island: Eyemouth. Trader's Isle: Ainwick, 
Dunbar Hamlet, Duns-on-Fell, Haycroft. 



T1\)G SeveN IslaNDs 

Now we will take a brief tour of the Minrothad archipelago, 
examining each of the seven islands which make it up, their 
main features, and their level of settlement. Please refer to 
Table 4, above, to detect the density range and average density 
of each settlement level. 



ALFEISLE 

Surface area: 2,761 square miles (34% of total 
nation's surface area). 

Total population: 111,600 (27.5% of total 
nation's population). 

Population density: 40.4 people/square mile. 

Population breakdown: 57% water elves, 
39% wood elves, 3% humans, 0.8% halflings, 
0.1% dwarves, 0.1% lupins. 

[Table SI-1] 

Alfeisle is the ancient homeland of the Verdier 
wood elf clan, and of the Meditor water elf 
clan. From this large island, which was kept 



Alfeisle 



hidden from the outer world for centuries by 
elven magics, the elves went to become the 
leading race of the archipelago. Alfeisle is run 
through by the Gregus Ridge mountain chain; 
these mountains and their slopes are heavily 
forested, and in part even unexplored. The 
coastline is mostly flat, but in some areas it 
features beautiful cliffs and reefs. The wood 
elves are more numerous in the woodlands 
and farmlands in the south part of the island, 
where their port of Verdon is found; while 
the water elves favor the coasts, the ones in 
the northern half of the island especially, 
where they built their trading city of 
Seahome, one of the richest and most 
beautiful of the whole archipelago. 



Settlement 


#of8- 


% of island 


Total 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


island 


population 




hexes 




population 
(averaged) 


(averaged) 


High 


2 


4% 


31,600 


28% 


Average 


12.7 


26% 


59,100 


53% 


Low 


14.6 


30% 


16,900 


15% 


Borderlands 


13.4 


27% 


3,900 


4% 


Wilderness 


6.6 


13% 


100 


0% 


TOTAL 


49-3 


100% 


111,600 


100% 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Deivioqnapliy of leneNOi Q MiNnotftao 




BLACKROCK ISLAND 

Surface area: 218 square miles (2.7% of total 
nation's surface area). 

Total population: 1,900 (0.4% of total 
nation's population). 

Population density: 8.7 people/square mile. 

Population breakdown: 95% humans, 2% 
halflings, 2% harpies, 1% water elves. 

Blackrock is a small and poor island in the 
southern part of the archipelago, inhabited 



Blackrock 
Island 



only by some hundred fishermen who live in 
small village along the eastern coast. The 
scarcity of resources, and the presence of an 
active and angry volcano, Halfpeak (or Old 
Nenthead, as it is known to the elves), 
discourage further settlement. Blackrock is 
also notable for the presence of a small 
community of mystics, Larril Hermitage, 
founded by a former Minrothaddan port 
agent in Alphatia who took interest in that 
culture's mystical traditions. 



Settlement 
Level 


#of 8- 

miles 

hexes 


% of island 
mileage 


Total island 
population 

(averaged) 


% of island 
population 
(averaged) 


Average 


0.3 


8% 


1,100 


59% 


Low 


0.5 


13% 


600 


31% 


Borderlands 


0.5 


13% 


150 


8% 


Wilderness 


2.6 


66% 


50 


2% 


TOTAL 


3.9 


100% 


1,900 


100% 



FIRE ISLAND 

Surface area: 207 square miles (2.6% of total 
nation's surface area). 

Total population: 12,300 (3% of total nation's 
population). 

Population density: 59.4 people/square mile. 

Population breakdown: 64% humans, 24.5% 
water elves, 5% halflings, 4% dwarves, 1% 
lupins, 1% wood elves, 0.5% harpies. 

Fire Island is a dangerous place because of the 
presence of the volcano of Mount Thymas (the 
elves call it the Great Fire Mouth), and 



nicknamed "Redtop" by sailors, both 
Minrothaddan and foreign, who have learned 
its vicious habit to periodically spew forth 
ashes and dust up to miles in the sea 
surrounding the island. It's no surprise, thus, 
that Fire Island is avoided by anyone and 
declared off-limits to settlement by the 
Guilds' government. What is not known to 
the general public is that the island is 
inhabited, indeed: it's the secret seat of the 
Privateers Guild, which has its own base in 
the hidden town of Cove Harbor, some miles 
inland up the Reedy River. 



Fire 
Island 



Settlement 


#of 8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


Very high 


0.6 


16% 


12,250 


100% 


Wilderness 


3.1 


84% 


50 


0% 


TOTAL 


3-7 


100% 


12,300 


100% 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Deivioqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotftao 




FORTRESS ISLAND 

Surface area: 515 square miles (6.3% of total 
nation's surface area). 

Total population: 24,000 (5.9% of total 
nation's population). 

Population density: 47.6 people/square mile. 

Population breakdown: 90% dwarves, 6.6% 
humans, 3% water elves, 0.2% harpies, 0.2% 
lupins. 

This barren island is dominated by Mount 
Redtongue, an active volcano from which a 



constant flood of lava flows down into the 
sea, generating clouds of smoke and dense 
fog around the place. The island is almost 
devoid of vegetation, and was nearly 
unsettled until about two centuries ago, when 
dwarven immigrants were offered to settle 
there by the Guilds' government, and 
accepted. Apart some small fishing villages 
scattered on the coasts, the heart of Fortress 
Island is Stronghold, the town of the 
Minrothad dwarves, located at the end of a 
narrow fjord and clinging to the mountain 
slopes. 



Fortress 
Island 



Settlement 


#of 8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


High 


1 


11% 


15,800 


66% 


Average 


1.9 


20% 


6,900 


29% 


Borderlands 


4.3 


47% 


1,250 


5% 


Wilderness 


2 


22% 


50 


0% 


TOTAL 


9.2 


100% 


24,000 


100% 



NORTH ISLAND 

Surface area: 532 square miles (6.6% of total 
nation's surface area). 

Total population: 20,000 (5% of total nation's 
population) . 

Population density: 37.6 people/square mile. 

Population breakdown: 64% humans, 15% 
water elves, 10% halflings, 5% wood elves, 
4.8% dwarves, 1% lupins, 0.2% harpies. 

North Island is a small but pleasant place 
which lacks the typical volcano featured in 
almost all the island of the Ierendi and 
Minrothad archipelagos. The shallow waters 
surrounding it made it scarcely interesting for 



establishing trade stations and ports. 
Nevertheless, some settlement by people 
interested in agriculture, mining, and fishing 
did take place. In the last century, the Guilds' 
government decided to use North Island as 
a refuge should volcanic activity or other 
calamity threaten the Minrothad islands as it 
happened in the past. Thus, the nice but 
heavily fortified and supplied town of Gapton 
was built in a dale in the middle of the island's 
mountain chain. Today, Gapton is inhabited 
by a large community of scholars and clerics, 
while the island is used mostly as a 
resupplying stop for ships traveling between 
the continent and Minrothad. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G DeMoqiiapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotliat) 




North 
Island 



Settlement 


#of8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


High 


0.6 


6% 


8,500 


43% 


Average 


1.4 


15% 


5,100 


25% 


Low 


4.9 


52% 


5,700 


28% 


Borderlands 


2.6 


27% 


700 


4% 


TOTAL 


9.5 


100% 


20,000 


100% 



OPEN ISLE 

Surface area: 661 square miles (8.1% of total 
nation's surface area). 

Total population: 33,100 (8.2% of total 
nation's population). 

Population density: 60.1 people/square mile. 

Population breakdown: 89% halflings, 4.8% 
humans, 3% water elves, 2% dwarves, 1% wood 
elves, 0.1% harpies, 0.1% lupins. 

Since more than five centuries, Open Isle is 
the home of the archipelago's halflings. The 
island had been previously settled by humans, 
but the halfling freedom hero Malf Quickhand 



led the rebellious halfling slaves here in AC 
450, and the humans of that time, hardly hit 
by the lycanthropy plague, had to recognize 
the halfling possession of Open Isle. Since 
then, the halfling population of the island has 
grown, and the few humans who continued 
to dwell here became a small minority. Open 
Isle is so called because few trees grow here; 
the island's soil is thin and rocky, and 
requires a great deal of work to farm. 
Nevertheless, the halflings managed to 
transform the island in a land of flat green 
fields, pasturelands, and orchards. The main 
port of the island is the town of Malfton. 



Open 
Isle 



TOTAL 



11.8 



100% 



33,100 



Settlement 


#of8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


High 


1.4 


12% 


13,100 


40% 


Average 


3.2 


27% 


11,600 


35% 


Low 


7.2 


61% 


8,400 


25% 



100% 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 




164 




Issue #3 



"Ciie Deivioqnapliy of leneNOi Q MiNnotftao 




TRADER'S ISLE 

Surface area: 3,226 square miles (39.7% of 
total nation's surface area). 

Total population: 202,500 (50% of total 
nation's population). 

Population density: 69.8 people/square mile. 

Population breakdown: 65.1% humans, 21% 
water elves, 5% halflings, 4% wood elves, 3% 
dwarves, 1.9% lupins. 

Trader's Isle is the largest and most populous 
island of the Minrothad chain, and the heart 
of the country's government, politics, 
economy, and history. It was here where 
Minroth led his people thousands of years ago, 
it was here where Alphatians and Minrothians 
clashed over slave trade, it was here where the 
lycanthropic plague took its toll, it was here 



where Hadric Corser decided to found the 
city of Minrothad over the ruins of New 
Alphatia - the city which became the capital 
of the Guilds. The island's population is 
predominantly human, through all other 
races of the archipelago are represented as 
well. The other town of the island is 
Harbortown, a very old settlement which 
today is still the center of Guild Corser' s 
activities. Trader's Isle is cut in half by the 
Diamond Spurs, a mountain chain which also 
includes two inactive volcanoes; the island's 
interior is forested, but as one moves toward 
the coasts the woods disappear - cut through 
the course of centuries to fuel the island's 
shipbuilding and construction activities - 
leaving room for farming fields, pasturelands, 
and hundreds of small rural villages. 



Trader's 
Isle 



Settlement 


#of 8- 


% of island 


Total island 


% of island 


Level 


miles 


mileage 


population 


population 




hexes 




(averaged) 


(averaged) 


Very high 


3.2 


6% 


64,800 


32% 


High 


11.8 


20% 


68,500 


34% 


Average 


12.8 


22% 


46,400 


23% 


Low 


16.2 


28% 


18,800 


9% 


Borderlands 


13.6 


24% 


4,000 


2% 


TOTAL 


57.6 


100% 


202,500 


100% 



MaiN Races 

The following entries list in order of their 
number - from the most numerous to the least 
numerous - the main races who dwell within 
Minrothad's borders. Each entry gives a brief 
description of that race's composition (ethnic 
subgroups, and the like), its diffusion in the 
archipelago, relationships with other races, 
and some additional information. Note that 



only races who number at least 100 members 
within Minrothaddan territory are described 
here. Other, less-represented races - 
alongside unintelligent creatures - are found 
in the following chapter, "Fauna and Minor 
Races". 

Elves (pop. 166,900) 

The elves are the most numerous race of the 
Minrothad archipelago, whose elven 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G DeMoqnapliy of leueNfci Q MiNnofftat) 




community - alongside the Kingdom of 
Alfheim - represents one of the largest 
concentrations of elf population in the Known 
World. The elves of Minrothad, however, are 
not a closely united group, but are divided 
into two major cultural groupings which 
descend from the original elven clans who 
settled Alfeisle thousands of years ago. 

The largest grouping is that of the water elves 
(representing 68% of the archipelago's total 
elven population), descendants of the ancient 
Meditor clan, whose scions are still one of the 
most powerful families in the Guilds. An 
unique subrace of elves - a little taller than 
wood elves but fair-haired and pale- 
complexioned - the water elves are a jolly and 
curious lot, devoted to exploration and trade 
enterprises. Their name comes from their 
affinity for the sea and for all activities 
connected with it, including seamanship, 
navigation, shipbuilding, fishing, and crafting 
of sea products and resources. Water elves 
possess an uncanny sense of direction which 
makes them some of the most skilled seamen 
in the world. Contrary to most other elven 
cultures, the water elves live in coastal 
settlements (cities and villages), not in the 
woods. Today, water elves occupy important 
positions in the government of the Guilds, 
both through the Elsan family guids and the 
Ruling Guildmaster office; many of them 
belong to the Merchant Princes associated 
guild, and thus to the fifth caste of 
Minrothaddan society. They represent the true 
propulsive force behind many of the Guilds' 
successes - including technical, scientific, and 
magical discoveries. Most of the water elf 
population (57%) lives in Alfeisle, where the 
beautiful and ancient city of Seahome is 
located, but many others (37%) live in Trader's 
Isle, mostly in the capital city and in other 
coastal towns and settlements; the remaining 



few (7%) are scattered among the other 
islands. 

The second, less numerous grouping is that 
of the wood elves (representing 32% of 
Minrothad's total elven population). They 
descend from the old Verdier clan which, 
millennia ago, chose to abandon the newly- 
formed coasts of the continent to reach the 
water elves on Alfeisle. The Minrothad wood 
elves belong to the same stock of the 
mainland's wood elf clans, like the Callarii or 
most of the clans of Alfheim. Even if their 
culture has adapted to life on an island, to 
Minrothaddan ethic of work as one's duty in 
life, and to the trade- and manufacture- 
oriented society of the Guilds, they still love 
the woodlands and their affinity and skill for 
woodworking is legendary. The wood elves 
control the Guilds' wood industries through 
their Verdier family guild. Most of the wood 
elves (82%) live in Alfeisle's woodlands, 
where their trading center of Verdon is found, 
but a minority (15%) is found on Trader's 
Isle, both in the capital and in that island's 
forested lands; only a very few (3%) are found 
on other islands. 

Humans (pop. 160,800) 

Humans are the second most numerous race 
of the archipelago. After the Taymoran age, 
they were the first to settle the Colony 
Islands, and they did continue to be the most 
influential race of the archipelago until 
quarrels among them and the spread of 
lycanthropy in the 3 rd -5 th centuries AC toppled 
their power, allowing for the rise of elven 
power in the archipelago. 

Today, the archipelago's native humans 
consider themselves Minrothaddan, and 
make up for the vast majority of the human 
population (92%); however, this people and 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie Deivioqnapliy of leneNfci Q MiNnotliaO 
m 




its culture originated from the union between 
two very different people. The first group if 
that of the dusk-skinned Nithian colonists who 
settled the Colony Islands around BC 1100, 
absorbing and conquering the scattered 
surviving descendants of the Taymora and the 
handful of Traldar colonies; after the demise 
of the Nithian Empire in BC 500, the Nithian 
colonists started to call themselves 
Minrothians, from the name of the legendary 
leader (Minroth) of the first colonization 
expedition. Around AC 250, a second group 
came to the Colony Islands; they were copper- 
skinned Common Alphatians, who founded 
the city of New Alphatia on Trader's Isle. The 
relationship between the two ethnicities 
alternated between times of alliance and war, 
until the spread of lycanthropy in the 5 th 
century AC and the subsequent Silver Purge 
unleashed by the elves did lead to a decisive 
population loss for both human groups. After 
that, Minrothians and Alphatians - who had 
been the most hardly hit by the Purge, having 
suffered the destruction of their main 
settlement of New Alphatia - started to 
intermarry, leading to the formation of the 
Minrothaddan culture, whose name comes 
from the city of Minrothad, founded by Hadric 
Corser in AC 488. The original, bronze or dark 
complexion of the Minrothaddans was diluted 
during the course of the following centuries, 
due to intermarriage of the Minrothaddan 
merchants with partners from the continent, 
or even with families of water elves - which, 
if it didn't produce half-elves, concurred to 
lighten the skin tone of the natives. Steady 
immigration of fair-skinned humans from the 
continent - mostly from the Thyatisn Empire 
and Darokin - until the Isolation Act was 
passed in AC 890, was also a factor. Indeed, 
the current main tongue spoken in the 
archipelago, the Minrothad Patois, developed 



from the base of the original Minrothian 
tongue, with heavy influences from Alphatian 
and elvish tongues, and many words 
imported from other human languages of the 
continent. 

Besides the Minrothaddan majority, a 
minority (8%) of the human population is 
made up by immigrants from the Known 
World, who came in the archipelago after the 
rescission of the Isolation Act passed by Oran 
Meditor in AC 991, which again allowed 
foreign immigrants to settle in the Guilds' 
territory. This brought a number of people 
coming from Thyatis (60%), Ierendi (10%), 
Karameikos (10%), and elsewhere (20% - 
mostly from Ylaruam, Darokin, Glantri, 
Northern Reaches, Isle of Dawn, Ochalea, the 
Pearl Islands, and the Alatian Islands) to 
establish their home in the archipelago. 

Halflings (pop. 43,100) 
The halflings are a sizeable minority on the 
archipelago, whose presence there can be 
traced back to the 3 rd century AC, when the 
Minrothians started to bring on Trader's Isle 
halfling slaves captured in the Five Shires. It 
took the halflings a bloody rebellion against 
the Minrothians weakened by the 
lycanthropic plague to conquer freedom in 
AC 450. Under the rebel leader Malf 
Quickhand, the halfling managed to obtain 
possession of Open Isle from the humans, 
and since then that island has been their main 
hold in the archipelago. Only after the 
reforms of Gregus Verdier at the end of the 
7 th century AC the halflings were included as 
full partners of the newly-born Minrothad 
Guilds in AC 691. From that time, despite 
being less numerous, they have struggled to 
avoid being dominated by the elves' and 
humans' influence, managing to keep control 
over a vast series of largely-needed basic 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi § MiNnotftao 




crafts, and also over agricultural and farming 
production. Today, most of the halflings (69%) 
live on Open Isle, but many have settled also 
in Trader's Isle (23%), while only a minority 
of them (8%) is found in the other islands. 

Dwarves (pop. 29,900) 

Dwarves form a quite large community in the 
archipelago, even if the presence of such an 
earth- and underground-loving people may 
appear very unusual to the outside eye. The 
dwarven immigration in the Guilds took place 
after the tragic events of AC 828 which led to 
the expulsion of the dwarf immigrants (who 
had come from Rockhome) from the 
Highlands (nowadays Glantri), in the far north. 
Seeing the opportunity to put the dwarves' 
talents to the nation's advantage, the Guilds' 
government offered to the dwarves a place to 
settle in the archipelago, that is the rocky and 
barren Fortress Island, which had been until 
then almost devoid of any settlement. Many 
clans of dwarves accepted and established the 
town of Stronghold on the island, making it a 
center for metal- and stone-crafting activities. 
Today, the dwarves control metalworking, 
stoneworking, engineering, and mining trades, 
and form a tight group which tends to keep 
to itself and to avoid too much meddling into 
the affair of other races. The majority of the 
dwarves (72%) indeed lives on Fortress Island, 
with a sizeable minority (20%) found on 
Trader's Isle, mostly in the capital; only a few 
other dwarves (8%) are found on other islands. 

Lupins (pop. 4,400) 

A number of lupins lives in the archipelago; 
they are mostly found in the cities of Trader's 
Isle (88%), where they are employed in the 
most varied works, but only a few of them live 
in other islands (12%). Lupins are especially 
appreciated in Minrothad for their great 



animosity toward lycanthropes and their skill 
in scenting their presence; many lupins are 
indeed employed as law enforcers, guards, 
and investigators devoted to root out 
lycanthropes and prevent the danger of other 
spread of that plague. Most represented lupin 
breeds in the archipelago are: the Mongrels 
(23%); the Bouchons (15%), many of whom 
work with Guild Corser's winemaking 
associate guild; the King Mastiffs (14%) found 
serving the government or individual guilds; 
the Great Bloodhounds (11%) who are 
members of the Blue Eels; and the roving and 
enterprising Blue Bandits (10%). Less 
represented are the breeds of the Shag-Heads 
(7%), Eusdrian Bulldogs (6%), Neo-Papillons 
(5%), Great Beagles (5%), and Wolvenfolks 



Harpies (pop. 300) 

Lonely nests of these aggressive creatures are 
scattered in the most remote places of the 
archipelago - isolated crags, uninhabited 
cliffs, barren rocky islets, volcanic formations, 
and the like. They represent a serious danger 
for small ships and sea travelers passing near 
them. 

FauNa aNb Minor Races 

The following paragraphs describe which 
creatures can be found in the islands of 
Minrothad, including intelligent races whose 
number don't exceed a hundred individuals 
in the region. Creatures are grouped 
according to their monster type (for a 
definition of monster types, see the Rules 
Cyclopedia or DMR2 Creature Catalogue). 

Animals, Giant 

Giant animals dangerous for civilized folks 
have been all hunted down to extinction in 
most of the islands' settled areas. 





168 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie DeMoqnaphy of leneNOi § MiNnothao 




'Clie AQuauGNDi 

There is a third subrace of elves 
who lives in the region dominated 
by the Minrothad Guilds - in the 
underwater region, indeed. They 
are the Aquarendi, or aquatic elves 
as they are often called by other 
races. These elves belong to an 
ancient breed who adapted to life 
underwater in the age of the 
ancient civilization of Evergrun. 
Later, they migrated north after the 
Great Rain of Fire, living near the 
emerged regions of the Known 
World inhabited by their land 
cousins. After the volcanic 
upheavals of 18* century BC they 
ultimately found a suitable shelter 
in the sea around the various 
islands of the northern Sea of 
Dread. They helped the Verdier 
wood elves to migrate from the 
mainland to Alfeisle, to join the 
Meditor water elves stranded there. 
After these events, they have 
dwelled in the Sunlit Sea alongside 
other underwater races. The main 
concentration of Aquarendi is 
found around Alfeisle, between the 
numerous reefs and hidden 
lagoons which dot the island's 
surroundings. Alfeisle's elves have 
friendly relationships with the 
aquatic elves, and vice versa - but 
the latter prefer to be left in peace 
by the land-dwelling races, so their 
presence in the waters around 
Alfeisle is a well-guarded secret of 
the Minrothad elves and almost 
unknown to the humans, dwarves, 
and halflings of the archipelago. 



Nevertheless, wilder regions, especially in wooded 
and forested terrain, still hosts various species of giant 
lizards, among which are the giant gecko, the giant 
draco, and the giant horned chameleon; the giant 
tuatara, instead, prefers barren territory like the one 
found on Blackrock, Fire, and Fortress islands. 
Regarding giant sealife, on shores and shallow sea 
regions giant crabs are also sometimes found, as are 
giant octopi in submerged coral formations, reefs, 
and sea areas rich with prey. 

Animals, Normal 

The archipelago is the home of a variety of 
domesticated animals, from animal herds of cattle 
and oxen, to cows, domestic sheeps, pigs, donkeys, 
and normal dogs. Horses are also raised for various 
purposes, as are ponies in Open Isle, but both are 
usually imported from the mainland. Mammal wildlife 
includes small animals like normal bats, normal rats, 
monkeys in the forested hills, as well as wild goats 
and a species of diminutive wild pigs known locally 
as peccary. 

Birds abound in all islands except Fortress Island, 
devoid of treelife; coastal areas are flocked by 
sandpipers, gulls, and terns, while warblers, toucans, 
herons, and egrets are found in the interior, mostly 
in the forests and near freshwater bodies. A local type 
of grouse, the ulit, is a popular food bird. The only 
predatory birds found in the archipelago are normal 
hawks. 

Snakes are quite rare in the islands, but the 
archipelago still hosts some dangerous type of these 
reptiles, that is the giant racer, the poisonous pit 
viper, and the sea snake which is found in the Sea 
of Dread. 

Also, the waters around the islands are the home of 
dolphins, normal manta rays, and sharks (mostly 
the bull and mako types, with the great white rarely 
sighted) . 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G DeMoqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotftat) 




Humanoids 

Besides the ones listed in the Main Races 
section, the archipelago does not see many 
other humanoid races, being thankfully free 
of ores, goblins, and their lot. Traveling earth 
gnomes, mostly coming from the Kingdom of 
Highforge, in Karameikos, sometimes visit the 
Guilds. Also, Alfeisle occasionally sees the 
presence of some members of the Good Folk, 
mostly sidhe, sprites and pixies, even if they 
don't like too much the lifestyle that the local 
wood elves have adopted. 

On the other hand, the Sunlit Sea is the home 
of a vast array of underwater humanoid races, 
like the aquatic elves who live around Alfeisle, 
the nomadic mermen (or merrows, as they 
call themselves), the tritons with their 
Kingdom of Undersea, the shark-kins, and 
the alluring nixies. Knas, because of their past 
quarrel with the Guilds, almost never show up 
in this part of the Sea of Dread. 

Humanoids, Giant 

The only giant humanoids found in the 
Minrothad region are the sea giants of the 
Sunlit Sea. 

Lowlife 

Insects, especially spiders, abound in the 
islands; normal scorpions may be found 
everywhere, while insect swarm sometimes 
may represent a danger for rural farming 
villages. Dangerous or giant varieties are 
thankfully almost unknown. There are some 
exceptions, however, like the giant crab 
spider and the huge wood spider, both of 
which are found in the densest woodlands. 
Also particularly dangerous, if rare, is the 
salt-water variant of the water termite. 
Underwater, the giant sea worm known as the 
masher is quite common. In volcanic areas, 



mostly underground, steam weevils are 
instead known to dwell. 

Monsters 

Few monsters haunt the Minrothad islands. 
The last vicious species of dinosaurs (small 
land carnivore variety) may still be found in 
wilderness or borderlands areas, but these 
have become very rare and doomed to 
extinction. Lava lizards may sometimes be 
found in volcanic or heated underground 
caves, while the dangerous sea serpent (both 
the lesser and the greater types) occasionally 
are reported to attack ships and people at 
sea. Underwater, especially in the triton 
kingdom, the beautiful sea horse is a 
common sight. Small uninhabited islets and 
lonely crags or mountain peaks are from time 
to time chosen as nests by the majestic roc - 
the small and large varieties are uncommon, 
while the giant one is very rare. 

Isolated sea reefs, especially in shallow sea 
waters, are known to host the vicious 
creatures called sirens by seamen; they 
attract seamen and their ships on hidden 
reefs and shallow waters, causing shipwrecks 
and devouring the victims. (See the "Siren" 
sidebar to learn more about these creatures.) 

Lastly, despite its past history and the 
government being always on the look for 
cases of infection, lycanthropes are known 
to dwell in the islands - mostly on Trader's 
Isle. The last dangerous plague of lycanthropy 
happened in AC 980; despite many of these 
creatures had been hunted down in the 
intervening years, many suspect that more of 
them could have escaped in the wilderness 
or be hidden in the midst of the busy trade 
cities. Types of lycanthropes most likely to 
be encountered in the islands are wererats, 
werewolves, werebats, weresharks, and 
devil swines. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e DeMOQiiaprjy of leneNoi £? MiNnotftao 




SlRCN 

Armor Class: 
Hit Dice: 
Move: 
Swimming: 
Attacks: 

Damage: 
No. Appearing: 
Save As: 
Morale: 
Treasure Type: 
Intelligence: 
Alignment: 
XP Value: 



4 

^ *!" H" 

60' (20') 

360' (120') 

2 claws + 1 bite or 
constriction 

ld4 / ld4 + ld6 or 2d4 

(ld6) 

MU12 

7 

(V)C 
14 

Chaotic 
950 



Monster Type: Monster (Rare) . 

Sirens are dangerous and treacherous 
creatures of the sea, who use their song and 
appearance to lure seamen and ships to their 
death and devour them. Sirens have the 
appearance of dire mermaids, with the lower 
body of a giant fish (which may be shark-like, 
scaly, or eel-like) and the upper body of a 
beautiful female of human-like race, albeit 
with razor claws and oversized sharp teeth. 
Their fish-like lower half can be of any color 
combination, while the skin of their human- 
like upper half is usually a light and sickly 
shadow of white, yellow, azure or green. 
However, sirens can polymorph once per day 
to appear as very beautiful females of human, 
elven (even aquatic elven), merrow, or triton 
race, with voluptuous figures and wearing 
scanty clothing at best. They can also become 




invisible once per day. Both spell-like 
powers have an unlimited duration, but end 
as soon as the siren attacks or wishes so; 
using the siren's charming song does not 
end these effects. 

A siren may breath both air and underwater. 
In her true form she can move on land - 
slithering and aiding herself with her arms 
- but there her movements are impaired 
(consider her to have AC 7), unless she has 
taken humanoid form. In the waters, a siren 
in her true form can be deadly swift. 

Sirens attract unwary seamen and travelers 
using their alluring voices and song, which 
can be heard up to 300 feet of distance. Any 
humanoid (male or female) hearing them 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Deivioqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNiiotliat) 




must make a saving throw vs. spells at -2 
penalty or be charmed; usually a siren lures 
her charmed victims into reach her as soon as 
possible, despite obvious dangers and perils. 
When the victim is near, the siren shows her 
true appearance and attacks, using her sharp 
claws. If both claws hit the same victim, the 
siren may choose to bite her or constrict her 
with her long fishlike tail. Besides doing 
damage, the siren's bite is also poisonous; a 
bitten victim must make a saving throw vs. 
poison or be paralyzed and unable to move 
for 2d6 turns - which usually makes her drown 
if she is in a watery environment. Otherwise, 
the siren can constrict her victim, doing 2d4 
points of damage per round, starting from the 
round following the double claw hit; a 
constricted victim has 50% each of having her 
two arms pinned. The sirine can automatically 
hit a victim with both arms pinned with both 
claws or with the bite. The siren's song (and 
other spell-like effects) can be dispelled as if 
cast by a 12th-level magic-user. 

Sirens are carnivore, and even if they can eat 
fishes and mollusks, their favorite food is the 
fresh meat of humanoids. Their favourite tactic 
is to lure ships into areas of dangerous hidden 
reefs and shallow waters with their song, 
causing them to shipwreck or run aground; 



then, attack lonely seamen while they are 
still in the water. 

Sirens usually live alone or in small packs 
of 2-8 individuals. They make their lair in 
hidden underwater or semi-submerged 
caves on isolated atolls, reefs, or rugged 
coastlines. Their caves are laden with the 
bones of their victims, and with the treasure 
they had with them when they died. They 
reproduce only by mating with males of any 
land or sea humanoid race; thus they 
sometimes take charmed victims into their 
lairs and mate with them for a time, before 
eating the victim. 

Sirens have a lifespan of up to 300 years. 
The oldest of them have accumulated quite 
a lot of knowledge about the sea region they 
inhabit, and can be a valuable source of 
information if one can persuade them to 
talk. Sirines usually can speak two or three 
human and humanoid languages of the area 
they live in. They can become wokani or 
shamans of up to 8 th level; they usually 
master spells which deal with water, illusion, 
charm, and weather, or serve air or water 
elemental powers, or wild and ruthless 
ocean Immortals. 

Terrain: Ocean. 



Planar Monsters 

The only planar monsters found in the 
archipelago are those fire creatures which 
sometimes are attracted to the islands' 
volcanoes from their elemental plane. In such 
environs, fire elementals, efreets, and flame 
salamanders may be encountered. 



Undead 

Undead creatures are very rare in the islands, 
as the Tutorial Guild does not usually allow 
the casting of spells to animate even mindless 
undead like skeletons and zombies. 
Nevertheless, very rarely undead like wights 
and wraiths raise spontaneously as the result 
of unavenged wrongs or dramatic and 
untimely deaths. Still more rare and 
dangerous are vampires and their aquatic 
cousins, the velyas. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Deivioqnapliy of leneNOi £? MiNnotftaC) 




REFERENCES 

Article Sources: 

David Cook and Tom Moldvay, XI The Isle of 
Dread, TSR, 1981 

Bruce Nesmith, X7 The War Rafts ofKron, TSR, 
1984 

Graeme Morris and Tom Kirby, X8 Drums on 
Fire Mountain, TSR, 1984 

Michael S. Dobson, XI Red Arrow, Black 
Steel, TSR 1985 

Anne Gray McCready, GAZ4 The Kingdom of 
Ierendi, TSR, 1987 

Deborah Christian (ed.), AC 10 Bestiary of 
Dragons and Giants, TSR, 1987 

Deborah Christian and Kim Eastland, GAZ9 
The Minrothad Guilds, TSR, 1988 

Merle M. Rasmussen, XSOLO Lathan's Gold, 
TSR, 1988 

Vince Garcia, The Djinni's Ring, in "Dungeon 
Magazine" issue 9, TSR, 1988 

Aaron Allston, Dawn of the Emperors - Thyatis 
and Alphatia, TSR, 1989 

TM1 The Western Countries Trail Map, TSR, 
1989 

TM2 The Eastern Countries Trail Map, TSR, 
1989 

Aaron Allston, Hollow World Campaign Set, 
TSR, 1990 

Jim Bambra, PC3 The Sea People, TSR, 1990 

Aaron Allston (et al.), Rules Cyclopedia, TSR, 
1991 



Aaron Allston, Poor Wizard's Almanac & 
Book of Facts, TSR, 1992 

Ann Dupuis, PC4 Night Howlers, TSR 1992 

Julia Martin (ed.), DMR2 Creature Catalogue, 
TSR 1993 

Ann Dupuis (et al.), Champions of Mystara, 
TSR, 1993 

Ann Dupuis, Poor Wizard's Almanac II & 
Book of Facts - Edition for AC 1011, TSR, 
1993 

Ann Dupuis, Poor Wizard's Almanac III & 
Book of Facys - Edition for AC 1012, TSR, 
1994 

Thorarinn Gunnarsson, Dragonlord of 
Mystara, TSR, 1994 

Ann Dupuis and Elizabeth Tornabene, 
Joshuan 's Almanac & Book of Facts, TSR, 
1995 

Bruce Heard, Campaign Classics: lupins of 
the Mystara Setting, in "Dragon Magazine" 
issue 237, TSR, 1997 

Sharon Dornhoff, Alternate setting for Ierendi 
v2.0 , Mystara Message Boards, 1998 

LoZompatore, Sea of Dread ancient cultures , 
Mystara Message Boards, 2006 

Simone Neri, Demografia Mystarana, 
Volume I - Compendia storico sociale del 
Mondo Conosciuto, 2007 

Giampaolo Agosta, Ierendi Government and 
Aristocracy , The Piazza, 2009 

Marco Dalmonte, Codex Immortalis (3 ^ ed.) , 
English translation by Gary Davies, Vaults of 
Pandius, 2010-2011 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G DanKNess BeNeatl? 




The 



Darkness 
Beneath 



Ancient buried secrets 
in the Sea of Dread 

by Francesco Defferrari 



The following is a missive written from famed 
Ylari scholar and explorer Aamir Ibn Saleem, 
a teacher at the Krakatos School ofMagecraft, 
to his friend and colleague Erik in the year 
1013 AC. Details about Aamir can be changed 
if the DM wishes to set the letter in 1000 AC. 

Dear friend, 

I hope my letter 
finds you well and 
I pray you to give 
me some news 
about your travels 
and discoveries, for 
my part here is all I 
have discovered in 
the last two years 
about the buried 
ruins of the Sea of 
Dread. 



Aamir Ibn Saleem 



It's curious that I 
have now become a 
sort of expert on 
dark and forgotten places, as I was born in a 
nation full of sun, and it is in other nations 
full of sun that I search for these lost locations. 
It's ironic also because I very much feared the 
stories of dark dungeons as a child, when my 
grandfather told me that the "Evil wizard in 
the darkness" would come one day from 
below the sands 1 . What can I say? Life always 
takes you on unexpected paths! 

1 A reference to Barimoor, see Gazetteer 02, The Emirates 
of Ylauruam. 



My companions, Leander Mortensen, another 
wizard from the northern reaches, Lidia 
Mariev, a young Karameikan priestess of 
Chardastes, Abdul Muid, a warrior who is a 
Ylari expatriate like myself, and Corsin Seril, 
a Minrothaddan elf, and I, have begun to call 
ourselves "The Delvers" as we are always 
entering some forgotten underground ruin. 
And we have explored several already, all of 
them, I believe, linked to an ancient 
civilization that flourished in the upper Sea 
of Dread. At least that's true for the nearest 
layers, because there are more, in some 
cases... many more.. 

But let's proceed with order. All began for us 
in Krakatos 2 , because I teach at the School, 
and the city beneath is well known to have 
multiple layers of ruins that in recent years 
have become a sort of test of courage for 
reckless students. It was indeed during such 
an occasion, when I had to rescue some 
irresponsible youngster from a carrion 
crawler , that I found in one of the deep levels 
the sign of a double axe. Such a sign is well 
known, at least among scholars, as a symbol 
pertaining to an ancient civilization that once 
flourished in the area of Karameikos, Ierendi, 
Minrothad, and beyond. According to the 
elves, this civilization called itself Taymora 3 

2 

In 1000 AC Krakatos is still an abandoned ruin that will 
be cleared only in 1010 AC to build the Karameikan School 
of Magecraft. All the layers beneath the city however do 
exist in both times. 

3 

See here: Index to Taymor articles at The Vaults and 
here: Taymor discussion thread at The Piazza for more 





174 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G DaiikNess BeNeatl? 




and ruled over lands that at the time were 
over the waves, and that are now partially at 
the bottom of the Sunlit Sea. That little sign 
led me to wonder if other cities of the area 
had under their streets ancient ruins of the 
past, like Krakatos, or even older. 

information about Taymora. 



I spoke of this with my friend Leander, and 
together we began to search for other people, 
who like us, might be interested in similar 
explorations. So we met Lidia and Abdul, a 
couple of adventurers quite younger than 
ourselves, and began our "delving" under 
Krakatos itself. 




A cpI([, farlc, wiw^ 




/ 



f r" f 

? 



j Tkis is where. We. feu (jkt 
ceksfrUttructs aw( 
fpun^tke- tattle- cjirt 




/" StROf^qrjoio^ 



/ 

v. 



MiNiiotrjaO i 
City / 



/ 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CI7G DanRNess BeNeatl? 




As the many layers of Krakatos deserve a 
treatise upon themselves, being the ones we 
explored better, I'll leave their full description 
to another letter. For now let's just say that 
it seems the city wasn't a very important place 
in the time of Taymora, but rather some time 
after it, so Krakatos it's not very interesting 
for the purposes of the present letter. 

Under Mirros however it's another matter, 
as delving beneath the city (and mind that it 
wasn't easy, as we had to cross a layer of 
wererats , and one of nasty intelligent insects, 
to reach the older levels) we discovered what 
I believe in the remote past was a mighty 
fortress or castle. The time should have been 
around 2000 BC, at the time of Taymora's 
splendor. What surprised me were the huge 
blocks of stones that were used to build this 
fortress, a thing I've seen in the past only in 
buildings raised by giants. From what I was 
able to study of this layer (we found also some 
objects and weapons) I have developed the 
theory that this was a hotly contested place, 
where Taymora and an unknown giant people 
fought for supremacy and control. Curiously 
we also found a mirror and a dagger that seem 
to be ancient elven, or maybe fairy objects, as 
they still had a faint aura of magic. Have fairy 
folks too, lived in the castle at some point? 4 It 
seems, from many sources, that fairies had a 
relevant presence in the land. We soon found 
out however that the third layer was quite 
dangerous, as it was swept by a cold, dark 
wind that almost drove us mad. I think there 
were voices in the wind, of things dead since 
centuries, and yet not completely dead. 



Aamir doesn't know that, but the castle was a contested 
place between Taymora and the fairy folks/ giants nation of 
Grondheim according to the Mystara 2300 BC setting, see 
the 2300 BC sub-forum at the Piazza for more details and 
The History of Mystara and its Races by John Calvin. 



We ran away, I must confess, but in our 
confusion we escaped to a deeper layer, that 
would be the fourth. Here there were bronze 
plaques, or at least they seemed made of 
bronze, with names written in a strange 
alphabet, yet understandable to me as it 
seemed a mixture between Thyatian and 
Nordic. One name was recurrent, and I think 
it translates as Albimia. Was that the name of 
the city? A city even more ancient than the 
Taymoran, or fairy ruins above?. The fourth 
level too was inhabited by something, as we 
heard heavy steps coming toward us. I think 
we were still under the effect of some wicked 
magic from the level above, because we again 
ran away confusedly through the first passage 
going up. We were lucky enough to find a 
road to the surface, even if we had to fight a 
group of men and women going up - 1 think 
they were cultists of some sort 5 . We drove 
them away however, and came out into the 
more familiar sewers. 

I must admit this delving wasn't very 
successful, but it also must be noted that the 
places under Mirros seem very, very 
dangerous. We'll try to return there, however, 
one day. 



About Very Dangerous Places I have a special 
mention of Stronghold, in Fortress Island, 
Minrothad. 

The home of the local dwarves has extensive 
tunnels beneath that are worthy exploring, 
and we discovered that because the dwarves 
invited us to do so. At the time we were 
already a bit famous, and the dwarven guild 



Followers of Orcus, Thanatos or Nyx could all be 
appropriate under Mirros, or even followers of the Outer 
Beings (see Insanity, Horror, and the Outer Beings in 
Mystara by Geoff Gander). 





176 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Danlwess BeNeatl? 




wanted an expert opinion of what they found 
under the earth. The dwarves in fact dug 
several levels on the long narrow sound, at 
the end of which there is their wonderful 
town. They obviously met other creatures, 
and told us they had some clashes with flame 
salamanders and other critters in the past, but 
the recent events were something completely 
different. They warned us that already two of 
their exploring squads had gone missing, and 
offered us the best equipment they had. We 
were a bit concerned by the situation, but 
curiosity won over caution, as it always does, 
and may it not kill us. Down we went, for quite 
a long time and, even if we met some usual 
inhabitants of the underworld, insects and 
worms mostly, none of them were really 
dangerous. 




Shade of Tayma roaming the halls 
beneath Stronghold 



Only after going much deeper we finally found 
a girl - It was indeed a strange encounter as 
she was a young, tiny girl, really she seemed 
Makai for the colour of her skin but was just 
a bit taller than an halfling, unharmed and 
with a beautiful, precious white dress. She 
explained she needed our help to "defeat the 
creatures who held captive her and her 
people" and disappeared into thin air. That 
obviously surprised us, to say the least. Had 
she been a sort of magical sending? We were 
even more curious now, and went ahead, or 
rather deeper and deeper. Then we met them. 
They were different from anything we knew 
and from any story we ever heard. They 
looked like humanoid constructs , but they 
weren't normal golems. 7 They had lights on 
their skin, and strange weapons, as burning 
light rays, or a sort of wands, and they spoke 
too. We could not understand the language 
at first, but later I realized it seemed similar 
to a Glantrian dialect I heard once. Did they 
come from an ancient known world 
civilization? They didn't seem to be Taymoran 
at all, from what I know of that culture, and 
neither Milenians nor Alphatians. Maybe they 
were from something even more ancient. We 
managed to destroy one of the things, but the 
others forced us to retreat. We searched for 
another route to reach the place where the 
girl and "her people" were supposed to be 
held. With much caution and a very 
convoluted path we finally were able to reach 
a huge room, decorated in a style that seemed 
very much early Taymoran to me. But what 
immediately caught our attention was a big 
crystal sepulchre in the middle, where the girl 



~ She would be Tayma, the ancient, and long imprisoned, 
first vampire queen of Taymora according to the discussion 
in progress here: Taymor discussion thread at The Piazza 

7 

The constructs would be Blackmoor-era robots, see this 
"Rovot, SBOT" by Jamie Baty for possible inspiration. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e DanKNess BeNeatl? 




we met before laid sleeping. Everywhere on 
the floor around her, there were other people, 
hundreds, maybe thousands of them , all pale 
young men and women with dark hair, who 
also laid strangely asleep. Just a moment after 
we entered the room, she, or rather her image, 
appeared again right over the sepulchre, 
saying something we couldn't hear, but that 
sounded alot like a cry for help. 

We moved toward her, and hell break loose, 
as several of the strange constructs we met 
before attacked us, and, even worse, there 
was a beholder guiding them! Only it wasn't 
a regular beholder at all, as he/it had metal 
parts in his huge body and also looked quite 
dead to me. Yes, I think it was an undead 
beholder with strange metal implants. He was 
really dangerous. In a few minutes my 
companions and I were about to die. I had no 
choice but to mass teleport all of us away as 
quickly as possible, to a safe place prepared 
before in the upper levels. We went to the 
dwarves and told them all, and petitioned 
them to provide us with a stronger, armed 
expedition, but they refused. They were kind, 
and insisted to pay us handsomely, but 
refused to discuss the matter further, much 
to my frustration 8 . At last, we left Stronghold 
feeling a bit defeated and disappointed, but 
what could we do? It seems that the dwarves 
wanted to seal the levels with all those living 
there; the beholder and its strange constructs, 
the girl and her sleeping people. Probably 
we'll never discover who she was and why she 
was here. A deep regret for me, as I often 
dream about the girl and her people. The 
same happens to the others, from time to 

There could be several reasons behind the dwarves 
behaviour, as the DM prefers. They could wish to exploit 
the golems secretly or they could wish to strike a deal with 
the Undead Beholder to know his secrets. The desire of 
secrecy of the dwarves could be another adventure seed. 



time. I think she's trying to call us, and one 
of these days we'll return to Stronghold, if 
necessary without the dwarves permission, to 
find her. 



Speaking of Stronghold reminds me of 
another buried city we explored in the guilds, 
that is right under the capital of the island 
nation, the City of Minrothad. The city itself 
has a long history and, that means for a start, 
several layers of dungeons beneath it. After 
the modern sewers, the ancient Alphatian city 
is the first level we encountered, a creepy 
place dotted with old remains and that, 
according to local legends, is still inhabited 
by hidden werecreatures . We didn't encounter 
any however, but went below to an older city 
with the great stone buildings that I've learnt 
to associate with Taymoran architecture. Now 
that I have seen several ruins of those ancient 
times I can distinguish between different 
traditions within that culture. If the symbols 
of the double axe and the bull's horns are 
widespread in all the Taymoran region, i.e I 
think all the modern Ierendi, Minrothad and 
southern Karameikos, some decorative 
elements are particular of certain areas only. 
For example, we've often found the symbol 
of the deer and the swan in the area of modern 
Minrothad and up to Safari Island in Ierendi, 
but not more west than that. This area also 
always has rounded stone structures that 
could have a ceremonial use, or maybe were 
the houses of their chiefs, or rather priestess, 
as it seems that ancient Taymora was 
dominated by a mostly female religious 
hierarchy. 

In the particular case of Minrothad City we 
began to find other strange decorative 
elements, previously unknown to me. It took 
us some time to realize they were engravings 





178 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G DanKNess BeNeatl? 




of a Thanatos cult. There were indeed many 
wall reliefs and writings narrating the 
endeavours, or rather a string of heinous acts 
and massacres that made us sick, perpetrated 
by a "conqueror" identified as "The Dread 
Lord" 9 . I wondered if that is the reason why 
in the past Trader's Island was called Dread 
Island? The name maybe isn't due to the 
legend of the Behemoth, but to this cruel 
follower of Thanatos, or maybe to both 10 . I 
also wondered if the Dread Lord was 
somehow linked to the immortal Orcus. We 
discovered in Krakatos (where we fought 
some of his cultists) that in the latter 
Taymoran age Orcus was a feared warleader 
in the service of Thanatos in the region of 
modern Karameikos. But The Dread Lord 
mentioned under Minrothad city seemed to 
be another person entirely. 

The question wasn't purely academic as we 
soon met some shady people in that level, and 
from the magic they used and the undead they 
had in their service I can affirm they were 
indeed Thanatos' and not Orcus' followers. 
We managed to defeat them and move on. 
The level had been a huge city once. I believe 
it's the one named Salkish in ancient sources. 
At some point in its history, the city clearly 
fell to the forces of this "Dread Lord", but 
before that it was apparently dominated by a 

Extensive research on half forgotten books could give the 
PC's more details about the Dread Lord, maybe even his 
burial place, or legends about his return, he could be a very 
powerful vampire in the service of Thanatos or even an 
avatar of Thantos himself. He could also be somehow 
related to The Last One, the powerful vampire that has 
occupied the ruins of Koskatep (see the articles about this 
megadungeon in this and past issues of Threshold 
magazine. 

10 More details about the different legends about this name 
can be found in the article "The History of Ierendi and 
Minrothad", by Simone Neri, in this same issue of Threshold 
magazine. 




Exploring the ruins of ancient Minrothad 



female immortal, often associated with the 
moon, that I believe to be Nyx. 

The most ancient parts of the city, indeed had 
several symbols of her. In one of the rounded 
stone towers we also found a row of tombs, 
but we didn't dare to open them, as we feared 
several undead could emerge. In the room 
however, we found a hatch that lead us to an 
even deeper level. The area we found had 
architecture similar to the ruins of Salkish 
above, but it was even more ancient. It had 
huge signs of devastation, and I wondered if 
that wasn't one of the cities destroyed during 
the Great Rain of Fire itself! We also found 
some headstones that often bore the same 
name. It was in that strange alphabet that I 
already mentioned, and I think it said 
Albisaska. Maybe that was the name of the first 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ci7e DanKNess BeNeatl? 




city. Unfortunately here too our exploration 
was cut short by the presence of some people, 
or creatures, we weren't really sure, hideously 
deformed and hostile . Were they once 
humans, mutated by some hideous, ancient 
magic? We may never know, because they had 
light rays as the golems of Stronghold, and 
we had to run for our lives... 



Those described above are only two of the 
mysterious places buried deep in Minrothad 
but I can assure you, my friend, that there are 
many more, not only on the islands, but also 
in the sea around them, as once told me by a 
friendly mermaid. She is as beautiful as well 
as educated in magic and lore of the Undersea, 
and she said that in the waters inhabited by 
the secretive sea elves around Alfeisle there 
are many circles and lines of big stones 
planted in the seafloor that often discharge 
strange lights and magical energy. In the sea 
many miles south of Utter Island and 
Stronghold lay a ruined elven city, and even 
more to the south another big and ancient 
city once inhabited by the powerful undersea 
race of the kopru. Another story says that the 
ancient capital of lost Taymora lies under the 
waves many miles south of Roister and 
Aloysius island, in Ierendi, once inhabited by 
the race of shark-kin and now by the feared 
devil fish. 



11 The true nature and origin of these people is left to each 
DM's choice. They could be the degenerate descendants of 
an Albai people, a Neathar culture that lived in the area in 
Taymora's time and before (see also New Blackmoor, the 
Known World in 3050 BC article in issue 2 of Threshold 
magazine), who were subjected to radiance poisoning after 
the Great Rain of Fire or after the 1750 BC disaster that 
destroyed Taymora, or even deformed Shadow elves. 



So many places to explore, so many legends 
that for sure my lifetime will not be enough 
to study all this. But that's exactly the reason 
why, my friend, I'm writing you this letter. 
After I die, be of delving or old age, you and 
others will be able to continue my work... 
that's the beautiful and sad story of frail 
humankind. I want to write to you something 
more about the deep ruins we found in 
Ierendi, but before that, indulge me for two 
more important digressions that will have to 
remain just notes for now. 

The first one is Shireton. The capital of the 
Shires has extensive ruins beneath it that we 
explored only partially, and could well date 
back to the dawn of the world. The hin live 
there, and elves before them, and a culture of 
fairies and giants similar to the traces we 
found under Mirros, as well as humans who 
apparently had some cultural elements in 
common with the modern Atruaghin, and 
other humans that had elaborate 
underground tombs, and ivory figurines, and 
harps. A lost culture completely unknown to 
me 12 . Add to that the fact that the levels under 
Shireton are homes to wererats , unique 
monsters and undead , and you can realize 
that it's quite an interesting place... 

The second digression I must mention is the 
underground of Thyatis and the seas around 
it, as we found the remains of at least three 
unknown human cultures under Tel Akbir 13 , 

12 

They would be the Eokai neathar culture, mentioned 
here: Taymor discussion thread at The Piazza and also in 
the article History of Ierendi and Minrothad by Simone Neri, 
in this same issue of Threshold magazine. 
13 

These three cultures would be: the first, lower and most 
ancient one, Tjeset and the Blackmoorian colony of 
Dawncity, mentioned in New Blackmoor 3050 BC article in 
issue 2 of Threshold magazine, the middle one the 
Frontierlands culture, mentioned in Mystara 2300 BC 
Campaign Setting at The Vaults , upper and more recent 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Daniwess BeNeatli 




one that existed slightly after Taymora, I 
suppose, one contemporary to it, and another 
before the Great Rain of Fire! I read a book 
that says that under Thyatis City, deeper than 
the oldest Thyatian ruins, there are at least 
four levels of identifiable, lost cultures. And, 
according to my merrow friend, south of 
Hattias, near the Verdant isles, there would 
be a huge underwater city, still guarded by a 
powerful construct, and several other ruins 
lay on dry land on the islands. Unfortunately 
the area is extremely dangerous as it is 
infested with nasty, sailing ores and plagued 
by strange, dangerous seastorms 14 . 



Alas, I could write of this topic for ages, as you 
may have noticed by now, but let's move to 
Ierendi. I cannot mention the mysteries of 
Honour Island, White Island, and Elegy Island 
as these places deserve a treatise on their own, 
I'll just mention that is well known among the 
undersea races that there are pyramids under 
the sea, in a vast area that goes from the west 
of Roister island all the way to the Atruaghin 
and the Sindian seas - an ancient culture that 
could be the Oltec empire mentioned in the 
west by many books and sages before and 
after the Great Rain of Fire. It seems indeed 
that a kind of Oltec culture existed to the 
western borders of Taymora in its age, around 
3,000 years ago, probably the ancestors of the 
Atruaghin 15 . 

one could be the Doulakki culture (ny Matthew Levy) or 
other fan created cultures that existed in the thyatian area 
before the Thyatians immigration. 

14 That's a reference to the Kara-kara ores, mentioned in 
the canon adventure X8 Drums on Fire Mountain, and also 
in the article The Minor Islands of the Sea of Dread by 
Simone Neri in this same issue of Threshold magazine. 

15 A reference to Intua, mentioned in Mystara 2300 BC 
Campaign Setting at The Vaults and to the Oteino, an oltec 
culture mentioned here: Taymor discussion thread at The 



But for now I'll only write to you about the 
ruins under Ierendi City. A very old elven 
chronicle confirmed to me that a Taymoran 
city existed there, known as Soleclea 16 and, 
according to the elves, it was built over an 
even more ancient city, known as Mahalea. 
From many studies and discoveries I'll 
eventually detail to you, I've developed a 
theory that almost all the area of modern 
Ierendi, in particular Ierendi Island, Utter 
Island, Fletcher Island, Alcove Island and 
Safari Island, and all the lands around them 
now under the waves, were the home of an 
ancient human culture called the Mahakians, 
or the Maharians, that preceded Taymora and 
influenced it very much. A culture that indeed, 
I believe, has left many cultural traces even in 
the modern known world. I know the spiral 
was an important symbol for them and they 
worshipped female immortals of nature, 
probably Ordana. They made exquisite objects 
of amber, copper and silver and were 
apparently ruled by priestesses. Bovines were 
sacred animals to them, and they are shown 
riding bulls in their beautiful wall paintings. 



All that and much more we discovered under 
Ierendi City, speaking with the ghost of an 
ancient priestess 17 . Anyone that could wish to 
do the same however, be advised, and beware, 



Piazza and also by Simone Neri in his article The History of 
Ierendi and Minrothad in this same issue of Threshold 
magazine. 

16 A city of ancient Taymora mentioned here: Taymor 
discussion thread at The Piazza 

17 

The origin of the priestess could be left to each DM's 
decision. She could be a Maharian Priestess predating 
Taymora, see here for more info about the Maharian 
culture: Taymor discussion thread at The Piazza and also 
here: Ethnographic History of Mystara - Neathar (by Giulio 
Caroletti, Geoff Gander and Giampaolo Agosta) or even a 
Taymoran priestess of Nyx with her hidden agenda. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C17G Daniwess BeNeatl? 




that ancient Soleclea and Mahalea hosts many 
dangers, from undead pirates of Ierendi's 
recent past, to vampires created by the church 
of Thanatos at the time of Taymora, to vile 
monsters spawned from magical poisoning in 
more ancient times. And those are just some 
of the inhabitants of the ruins, as others we 
encountered just briefly, as some strange 
lizardmen , and many others we didn't see at 
all because the ruins are much larger than the 
small part we thoroughly explored. 



My dear friend, that's all for now, forgive me 
if I abused your time and patience, but there 
would be much more to write on the many 
secrets, items, people, and cities we 
discovered in our "delvings". If you are 
interested I'll be happy to write you again, and 
if one day you and your friends wish to join 
one of our little explorations, be assured that 
you'll always be well accepted, as the dangers 
of the Sea of Dread and its islands are many 
and its mysteries and lost secrets are even 
more... 



Yours sincerely, 



Aamir Ibn Sale em 




Speaking with the ghost of an ancient priestess 



REFERENCES 

This article started from this thread on the 
Piazza 

But also used some information from this 
thread (also on the Piazza), 
from my article "New Blackmoor, The Known 
World in 3050BC" in issue 2 of Threshold 
magazine and from the Mystara 2300 BC 
Campaign Setting by John Calvin that has also 
its own dedicated forum on The Piazza , where 
you can ask anything you might want to know 
about this fascinating setting! 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



Pinate LonOs of ffte Sea of Dneat) 



fck Pirate Lords of 




|jie Sea of Dread 



Eordjuss) Wilson 



INTRODUCTION 

One of Mystara's many virtues is as a magpie 
campaign setting. The original authors of the 
Mystara modules happily took any shiny thing 
from history or literature and put it into the 
setting, creating a bizarre patchwork of 
countries and peoples. This peculiar effect is 
one of the reasons Mystara is so brilliant. 
Fortunately that means we can follow in their 
footsteps and shamelessly borrow anything 
that takes our fancy. 

This article was inspired by the Pirates of the 
Caribbean movies, specifically the concept of 
the Brethren Court. I was intrigued by the idea 
that, beneath the anarchy, pirates might have 
some sort of formal command structure. I 
wondered how that would work in a magical 
world, so the first half of this article explores 
this. The second half is a handy overview of 
some of the main pirates of the Sea of Dread, 
very much in the style of the AC series. There 
are plenty of adventure hooks for any GM to 
choose from. 

For those who want more of this sort of thing, 
the article is completely compatible with the 



forthcoming Sea of Dread Gazetteer, which 
should be out around May 2014. Now, on to 
the ocean waves. 

THE PIRATE LORDS OF 
MySTARA 

Pirates may ply their trade for many reasons: 
some do it for treasure, some for excitement 
and some simply from a love of violence. But 
for the most powerful pirates the goal is to 
become a Pirate Lord. A Pirate Lord is a pirate 
so powerful in his sphere of influence that 
all other pirates in the area bow to his 
superiority and offer tribute. Though each 
pirate is a king on his own ship, they all owe 
fealty to the Pirate Lord. 

Becoming a Pirate Lord is a simple process 
in some ways. When a pirate is so feared and 
so powerful that no other pirate risks a battle 
with them, they can claim the Pirate Lordship 
of their Sea. This is normally achieved 
through a combination of bribery, fear and 
personal loyally. A simpler method is to kill 
the previous Pirate Lord, though holding the 
title may then become more difficult. Once 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Pinate Lonfcs of tlje Sea of Dneat) 




accepted as Lord, all other pirates in the area 
must send them regular tributes. How much 
and what form these tributes take are all up 
to the Pirate Lord in question. Asking too little 
will mean they are not respected, but asking 
too much may lead to a concerted effort to 
depose them. 

Apart from the benefits of regular tributes the 
Pirate Lord can also require the buccaneers in 
his domain to form a pirate fleet under his 
command. This isn't often done, but should a 
country ever try to erase piracy from a region 
this may be the result. 

There are Pirate Lordships up for grabs in 
every sea on Mystara. The Sea of Dawn has a 
Lord based on the island of Ne'er-do-well. 
Another can be found in the Izondian Deep, 
sailing from the Barony of Vilaverde. Even the 
Merry Pirate Seas have their Lord, currently 
Necco-the-Black. But the Sea of Dread is 
different. The high concentration of pirates 
and the difficulty in navigating its depths have 
meant that, after the death in a storm of the 
last Pirate Lord a century ago, no pirate has 
ever managed to hold the claim. Many now 
feel they might have a chance and the next few 
years are likely to see ever more violent battles 
as the contenders fight it out. 

SECRETS OF THE PIRATE 
LORDS 

For those fighting for it, being a Pirate Lord is 
all about the title. Little do they realise that, 
once they are granted the position, the role is 
much more than that. The Pirate Lords were 
created over a thousand years ago by a 
magician and pirate of astonishing power 
known as Twistbone. Nobody knows his true 
name and his place of birth is lost to history. 
Even the Immortals are unsure, and some 



speculate that he came from another plane 
entirely. In his prime he was the most feared 
pirate on Mystara, using his supreme magical 
abilities to overwhelm his foes, burning their 
ships, taking their treasures and attacking 
their ports with impunity. With his magically 
long life, he sailed all the seas of Mystara and 
brought them under his control. But one man 
could not rule all the seas alone, so he created 
the Pirate Lords, each responsible for one Sea 
and answerable only to him. 

Using his powers he crafted a brass ring for 
each Lord. With these he could track their 
movements, communicate with them and 
summon them to him. The rings also granted 
some magical abilities to their wearers. With 
his Pirate Lords he sought to rule the seas 
forever. But one should never forget the 
treachery of pirates. Within a decade, the 
Pirate Lords turned on him and magically 
imprisoned him in an ornate mirror. They 
agreed that none should have overall 
rulership of the seas and instead agreed to 
keep to their domains. Since that time there 
have been many such Lords. As each dies, a 
successor eventually takes their place and the 
rings magically find their new wearer. 

The Lords recognise no leader, but continue 
to meet secretly to ensure that piracy 
maintains its grip on the seas of the world. 
The meetings are irregular and are arranged 
using the rings to communicate. They take 
place in the captain's cabin on The Scourge, 
Twistbone's original ship, which is where the 
rings take their bearers when requested. The 
ship creaks and groans as it floats in a dark 
sea that is unknown to any Pirate Lord who 
has yet visited it. The ship has somehow 
become magically entangled on a series of 
sharp rocks, so the front half is separated 
from the back. On one of the rocks is a small 





184 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Pinate LonOs of tfte Sea of Dneat) 




lighthouse which illuminates the continual 
rain. With the ship stuck fast, no Pirate Lord 
has managed to leave the rocks to find out 
more about the region. 

Inside the cabin sits a huge table surrounded 
by thirteen chairs, usually more than enough 
to accommodate all living Pirate Lords at any 
given time. Two walls are taken up by the 
windows and the door. On the third wall hangs 
a massive mirror, entirely covered with a thick, 
green cloth, while on the fourth there sits a 
framed painting of a huge port filled with lights 
and ships, cowering beneath a lighthouse that 
reaches almost to the cloud layer. Beneath the 
painting is a glass-topped, wooden display case 
containing a large map of Mystara, on which 
sit the rings of those Seas currently without a 
Pirate Lord. 

RINCJS OF 

THE PIRATE LORDS 

Pirate Lord Rings have the following abilities. 

Once per day: clear sight, nightwatch, water 
breathing 

Once per week: talk to sea creatures, control 
winds, weather control 1 , commune with 
pirate lords, teleport 

Commune with Pirate Lords 

This allows the wearer to mentally commune 
with the other Pirate Lords. The wearer can 
target a specific Lord or all of them and they 
are put into instant mental communication. 

Teleport 

This spell will teleport the wearer to the 
Captain's cabin aboard The Scourge (and back 

1 All of the above spells use the statistics from Gaz 9: The 
Minrothad Guilds 



again whenever they wish) . It cannot be used 
to teleport to any other location. 

On the death of their wearer, the rings 
magically return to the display case on The 
Scourge. When a new Pirate Lord of a 
particular Sea is declared and recognised, the 
ring for that Sea appears on their finger. 
While the rings can be removed, they cannot 
be discarded. Even if thrown over the side, 
they return to their owner at midnight, 
reappearing on their finger. The same occurs 
if the ring is stolen (though its other functions 
can be used in the intervening time). 

PIRATES OF 

THE SEA OF DREAD 

There are thousands of pirates plying their 
trade on the Sea of Dread and many have no 
interest in the Lordship. But a few have heard 
of Pirate Lords on their travels and consider 
that they should rule the waters between 
Davania and Brun. This section outlines some 
of the main contenders for the title. 

ColD CaptaiN WytlieR 

Captain Wyther 
(F15) is broad- 
shouldered and 
clean-shaven with a 
handsome face and 
chiseled look. He 
was born in Hojah, 
one of the City States 
on the Savage Coast. 
At a young age he 
was pressed into service aboard a pirate ship 
that preyed upon the shipping around the 
Savage Coast. He quickly rose through the 
ranks and eventually became captain of his 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Pinate Lonfcs of tlje Sea of Dneat) 




own ship, The Crimson Scar, which had red 
sails and a crew entirely equipped with red 
steel weapons. Through diplomacy and 
conquest he became admiral of a collection of 
ships known as The Crimson Fleet and 
eventually became Pirate Lord of the Izondian 
Deep. But four years ago he lost that position 
to a pirate even more ruthless than he was. 
Rather than serve under another, he and his 
crew sailed round the Serpent Peninsula and 
began raiding the richer lands around the Sea 
of Dread. The Crimson Fleet is now based in 
Scuttlecove 2 , on Sekorvia, and Wyther is eyeing 
another Lordship, though he hasn't the 
strength to claim it yet. 

'Black' Nikolas Hackett, tHe 
'CattooeD CaptaiN 



mm 



Nikolas Hackett (or 
Black Nick, F12) is tall, 
broad-shouldered and 
covered from head to 
foot in tattoos. He was 
a young swashbuckler 
from Ierendi who 
delighted in the sea. 
He was also arrogant 
and quick-tempered, 
but these traits did not 
manifest themselves 
often. He left Ierendi 
as a sailor and returned 
after several years to find a friend of his, Kester 
Grace, married to a beautiful Espan girl called 
Imogene. He fell immediately in love with her 
and pursued her aggressively. Eventually she 
relented and the two eloped. Unable to return 
to Ierendi, Nick took to the sea and swiftly fell 
into the life of a pirate. Since then he has sailed 



Scuttlecove appears in the Savage Tide Adventure Path 
published in Dungeon Magazine. 



the Sea of Dread preying on shipping and 
making a name as one of the most black- 
hearted pirates on the waves. He named his 
ship after Imogene and hid her in Garganin 
on Davania, while making his home in 
Scuttlecove. Over time he has gained many 
pirate followers and has several ships at his 
command. 

CaptaiN Clecjq, tlie Devil (of 
'Cauastia) 

Clegg (C13) is tall 
and thin, with pale 
eyes and hair and a 
fierce expression. 
His real name is 
Kester Grace and 
he was born in 
Ierendi where he 
was a pleasant, if 
wild, young man 
with a devout 

nature. In his early twenties he met and 
married an Espan girl called Imogene who 
had recently arrived in Ierendi by ship. Only 
a few months later Imogene eloped with Nick 
Hackett, who Grace regarded as a friend. 
Grace went mad with anger and grief at her 
loss and swore to get her back at all costs. He 
set out to sea in pursuit of them but was 
captured by pirates. Within a few hours, he 
overpowered his guards, slew their captain 
in single combat, and took command of the 
ship, Brimstone. From then on he became 
Captain Clegg, pirate of the Sea of Dread. He 
spends his time taking ships and pursuing 
Black Nick, intending to kill him for his 
betrayal. Nick has yet to work out that Clegg 
and Grace are the same person but the 
revelation must come soon. Despite his 
originally good nature, Clegg has fallen far 
and fast. He is as dangerous a foe as any on 






186 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Pinate LonOs of tfte Sea of DneaO 





the seas and utterly ruthless in his quest to 
find Imogene. 

All LiNQ 

Ah Ling (M10) is 
an Ochalean 
mage of 
unremarkable 
appearance . 
After many years 
of study he 
yearned for 
excitement and 
so left Ochalea 
to pursue a life 
at sea. He swiftly 
joined a group 
smuggling drugs and slaves between Sekorvia 
and Alphatia and, through judicious use of 
magic, rapidly became its leader. Since then 
'The Seven Blessings', as the gang is known, 
has successfully branched out into piracy and 
may even threaten The Crimson Fleet in time. 
Ah Ling himself almost never sails with his fleet 
and, as he magically changes his appearance, 
even his own henchmen are unsure precisely 
what he looks like. Most of the time he lives a 
quiet life on Ochalea running things from a 
distance. 

KotoRolo Dwaiu 

Kotorolo (T10) is a Pearl Islander with brown 
eyes and short black hair. Though he is shorter 
than average, he is surprisingly stocky. He is 
a serious man who rarely smiles and has never 
been heard to laugh. In his youth, he came to 
believe that his people were regarded as little 
more than primitives by the Thyatian nobility. 
Before he reached twenty he had gathered a 
group of like-minded individuals and began 
to fight, violently, to make the Pearl Islands 




independent. 
Unfortunately he 
was captured and 
sentenced to life 
as a galley slave on 
a trading vessel, 
plying the routes 
between the 
Islands, the Isle of 
Dawn and Brun. 
Against the odds, 
he survived for 

three years, during which time he gradually 
gained a following among the other slaves. 
One day, when the ship was far away from 
land, he organised a revolt. The slaves broke 
their chains, killed the Thyatian crew and 
took up the life of pirates, with the long term 
aim of freeing the Pearl Islands from Thyatian 
rule. Now the Freedom preys on ships 
throughout the Sea of Dread, concentrating 
on Thyatian vessels when possible. 

ISMCRON 

Ismeron (Ml 2) is a 
dark-skinned man 
with large black 
moustaches and 
greying hair. A 
magic user from 
Jalawar, in Sind, he 
was originally court 
mage to the Rani 
Drisana Madhar. As 
he grew older, he 
began dabbling in dark magics, summoning 
creatures from other planes and specialising 
in predicting the future. Eventually he 
attempted to overthrow the Rani, but the 
rebellion failed and he fled from Sind. Using 
his magic he commandeered the ship he left 
on, the Sindhi Queen, and set off on a life of 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Pinate LonOs of tlje Sea of Dneat) 





piracy on the high seas. Now he makes his base 
in Jaibul and uses his magic to foresee the 
location of the weakest victims with the most 
treasure. 

QueylaN NauRowqiRtl} 

There are many Hin 
pirates who sail the 
waters south of the 
five shires. Some 
are dabblers who 
engage in piracy for 
sport, others do it 
for adventure, while 
some even do it for 
the treasure. But 
Greylan Narrowgirth (Halfling 8) does it 
because he's good at it. Greylan is tall for a 
hin, with short, brown hair and a mischievous 
expression. Like many others he started his 
career as a buccaneer because it was more 
interesting than being a trader. He did both 
for a while, but eventually settled on piracy as 
he continually lost money on trading trips and 
gained it through thievery. It was, in fact, the 
only thing he'd ever truly excelled at. Unlike 
the more ruthless pirates of the region, he 
abides by an unbreakable set of rules: no 
needless death, no Halfling ships, no slavery. 
However, like many Hin, he is not to be 
underestimated and will kill those threatening 
him with no warning, using both the blade he 
wields very well and the considerable number 
of magic items he has amassed over his life. 
He can be found sailing the western Sea of 
Dread in his ship The Juggler's Fool and, if he's 
in a good mood, may tell the story of how it 
came to have such a curious name over a pipe 
and several flagons of ale. 




SauieNa 

Sariena (Elf 9) is 
an elf of medium 
height with long 
pale hair and 
distinctive 
mismatched eyes, 
one green, one 
blue. She is very 
beautiful, but also 
cold and distant. 
Though born 
among the water 
elves of Minrothad 

her mother is a shadowelf who was sent out 
of their caverns to learn more of the elves of 
the south. To maintain her cover, her mother 
formed a relationship with one of the Meditor 
elves and Sariena was the result. Like many 
of her clan, she learned to sail at a very young 
age and trained as a trader, eventually rising 
to the rank of captain. Her skill with arms and 
her lack of fear soon led to her being trained 
as a privateer by the Minrothad government, 
and she now sails her ship, the Seas tar, 
around the northern Sea of Dread, sinking 
enemy trading ships and taking their treasure 
for Minrothad. She is one of their most prized 
captains and it is in this role that she has been 
asked to investigate the possibility of 
shadowelf spies among the elves of 
Minrothad, a task she intends to undertake 
with vigour. 

Mauie Raye 

Marie (F14) is a human of medium height 
with long brown hair that falls in waves to 
her shoulders. She wears brown leggings and 
boots with a white blouse that she lets hang 
open, a ploy to distract her opponents. She 
uses a sword, and wears jewellery and an 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



Pinate LonOs of tfte Sea of Diteat) 




eye-patch, having lost her eye in a battle five 
years ago. Marie was born in Minrothad on 
Trader's Isle. Her parents were very devout 
and originally planned for her to be cleric in 
a contemplative order, locked away from the 
world. Unfortunately for them Marie turned 
out to be wild, wicked and generally unsuited 
to such a life. After she caused untold mayhem 
in her village, her parents arranged for her to 
be married to the local blacksmith's 
apprentice. He was not an unattractive man, 
but Marie had no interest in being tied to one 
man forever. She couldn't escape the wedding 
but crept out of her new home early the 
following morning and left, leaving the ring 
on the blacksmith's anvil. She made for 
Harbourtown and took a place as a deckhand 
on a trading ship, looking for a life of 
adventure. The ship in question turned out to 
be a raider, rather than a trader, but Marie 
found that all the more exciting. The ship's 
captain, another woman with an uncertain 
past, took a liking to Marie and taught her how 
to sail and fight, eventually bequeathing her 
the ship itself. That was twenty years ago. Since 
that time Marie has become a major player in 
the criminal community of the northern Sea 
of Dread. Aboard the Maiden's Revenge, she 
sails out of Crossbones and is the most 
respected pirate in the Minrothad area. She is 
no privateer though, and will prey on any ship 
that crosses her path. 

Maucus KeRRal 

Marcus (F9) is a good looking young man with 
a ready smile and an easy manner. He was 
brought up in Thyatis City as the second son 
of a merchant family. A combination of 
boredom and a taste for the high life led him 
into gambling, which he turned out to be very 
good at. In the course of a few years he won 
jewels, money, properly and even a ship. 




Eventually he 
had won so 
much that he 
was suspected of 
cheating. 
Though nothing 
was ever proven, 
he had made 
enough enemies 
that he was run 
out of the city, 
escaping on his ship with only the goods he 
could carry. Within a few weeks he had 
turned pirate, putting his extraordinary good 
fortune to work in robbing the shipping lanes 
near Thyatis and the Isle of Dawn. He now 
makes his home in the town of Crossbones 
and his ship, the Lady Luck, can regularly be 
seen there, often with the sounds of music 
and laughter drilling from below decks. He's 
not considered a great pirate yet, but his star 
is on the rise and some of those who have 
heard of him are beginning to wonder 
whether his luck can be entirely natural. 

NattjaaN MclUjoiviaag 

Nathaan (F12) is a 
young man with 
broad shoulders, 
huge muscles and 
a dour expression. 
He is the nephew 
of Baron Uthgaard 
McRhomaag, the 
ruler of the Barony 
of Caerdwicca on 
the Isle of Dawn. 
When he was a 
boy, Baron 

Uthgaard noted that Nathaan was both strong 
and ill-tempered, which he felt were the main 
requirements for a truly successful pirate. 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Pinate LonOs of tfte Sea of DneaO 




Uthgaard had been a pirate himself when 
younger, had heard of the Pirate Lords, and 
had even sought to become one of their 
number. However, his accession to the Barony 
prevented him doing so. Instead, he intends 
to help Nathaan secure the Lordship. Although 
the Baron supports many pirates, Nathaan 
received goods, training, men and even a ship, 
the Cleaver, from his uncle. Nathaan now leads 
the Caerdwiccan pirate fleet and is trying to 
extend his influence further. Should he ever 
achieve the position of Pirate Lord, his uncle 
may find him a good deal more difficult to 
control than he thinks. 

ADuieNNe XyloNias, of Petua 

Adrienne (Cll) 
is from Kastelios 
on the continent 
of Davania, and 
has the dark hair 
and golden skin 
common in that 
region. As a 
young girl she 
was sent to serve 
in the Temple of 
Petra and so was 
trained as a 
fighting cleric, 
dedicated to 
defending the weak. When she was in her early 
teens her father, a trader plying the routes on 
the Davanian coast, was killed by pirates. This 
event gave focus to her abilities and, with the 
church's blessing, she took command of a ship 
and set sail to destroy any pirates she found 
and return their booty to the temple for the 
glory of Petra. Her approach since then has 




been simple; she sails the southern Sea of 
Dread in her ship, the Vengeance, preying 
only on pirates. Since there are plenty in the 
area, she is never short of targets. Ordinary 
trade ships are completely safe with her, but 
any pirate ship will be attacked. For them she 
has no mercy and will commonly execute the 
entire crew, steal any treasure and burn the 
ship where it stands. This is certainly an odd 
form of piracy but it's possible, if enough 
pirates fear her, that she could gain the 
Lordship by default. 

Krcm 

Krem (Ore 7) is 
a red ore from 
northern 
Davania. He is 
short, squat, 
ugly and has 
enormous ears. 
When he was a 
young man he 
was driven out 
of his village 
after losing a 

fight with another male over one of the tribe's 
females. He made his way north and 
eventually met a pirate who was sheltering 
in a cove on the coast. The pirate offered 
Krem a place on his ship and the ore spent 
several years learning the ways of the sea. 
Eventually he rose to first mate and, when 
the Captain was lost in a storm, he took 
command of the ship. Now he prowls the 
seas around Davania attacking shipping and 
looting the coastal villages. His ship, the 
Marauder, is a terrifying sight with hideous 
red and yellow eyes painted on the hull. 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CiivieliNe of tl?e Sea of Dneat) 





FROM 

THE VAULTS 
OF PANDIUS 



TIMELINE of 
ftfe SEA of DREAD 

by Andrew Theisen 



The following is a fairly complete listing of 
events in the Sea of Dread. I posted a larger 
timeline including many bits of fan works on 
a webpage many years ago. Those bits were 
excised from this version, which only includes 
published canon sources. 

RefeueNces: 

GAZ4: Gaz4 Kingdom of Ierendi 
GAZ2: Gaz2 Emirates of Ylaruam 
GAZ9: Gaz9 The Minrothad Guilds 
HW: Hollow World DM's Guide 
PC3 : The Sea People 

CoM: Champions of Mystara Explorer's Manual 
GAZ8: Gaz8 The Five Shires 
DotE: Dawn of the Emperors 



FaN CueatioNS in ttje Sea of 
Dueab 

Over the years, there have been many fan 
works involving the Sea of Dread and its 
many islands and inhabitants. Many of these 
have been archived at the Vaults of Pandius, 
including: 

Gaz XF series detailing the Sea of Dread 
Geoff Gander's Colhador 
Tames Mishler's Thanegioth Achipelago 
Sharon Dornhoff s Ierendi v. 2.0 



3000 BC: Blackmoor is destroyed in the 
Great Rain of Fire. The planet shifts its axis; 
ice caps melt and lands are flooded as the sea 
level rises. (GAZ4, GAZ9, PC3) 

2500 BC: A human culture, the Taymora, 
settle along the shores of southeastern Brun. 

(PC3) 

2400 BC:To the north of the Taymora, 
another human culture- the Antalians- enter 
into the bronze age. (HW) 

2200 BC: Elves from the two southern 
migrations reach the frozen valleys of the land 
now known as Glantri, to the northwest of 
the Taymora and southwest of the Antalians. 
Colonists from the human Tanagoro culture 
of distant Skothar reach the Serpent 
Peninsula. They conflict with the Sheyallia 
elves who have also settled there. (HW, CoM) 

2100 BC: The Meditor and Verdier elf clans 
part ways with the Ilsundal migration, settling 
along the southern shores of Brun, near to 
the Taymora. (GAZ9, HW) 

2000 BC: The humans living near the River 
Nithia develop a swiftly growing bronze-age 
civilization. 

The Antalians begin migrating southwards, 
closer to the Nithians. (GAZ4, GAZ8, HW, 
DotE, PC3) 

1750 BC: The Nithians begin developing new 
technologies. Within a century and a half, 
they will have progressed to Iron Age. 
Further to the south, a series of earthquakes 
and geological disasters begin to break apart 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CiMeliNe of tlie Sea of Dneat) 




the continent. The Taymora civilization is 
destroyed, and the Meditor elves are left 
stranded on islands in the newly-made 
southern sea. They name this sea the Sea of 
Dread. 

The earthquakes cause flooding of the Serpent 
Peninsula, causing the Tanagoro culture to 
splinter and regress. (HW, GAZ4, GAZ9, CoM) 

1720 BC: Continuing geological changes and 
volcanic eruptions cause more land to break 
away from the continent, creating new islands 
in the western Sea of Dread. The Makai 
humans and lizard men find themselves 
stranded on these islands. 
The Verdier elves build ships and join their 
cousins the Meditor on the southeastern 
islands. 

Fleeing similar elemental clashes in the 
southern seas near Davania, primitive tribes 
of merrow head northwards. Many settle in 
and around the Thanegioth Islands, but still 
others continue further, settling in the Sea of 
Dread. They name their new home the Sunlit 
Sea. (GAZ4, GAZ9, PC3) 

1500 BC: The Nithians have now formed an 
Empire, and begin sending out colonial 
expeditions. One such expedition is led by the 
Traldar clan, and settles in lands to the 
southwest, along the shores of the Sea of 
Dread. 

Davanian halflings, driven out of their 
homelands from population pressures of 
expanding human nations, sail northwards. 
They stop briefly at Thanegia Island, but 
quickly move onwards. (GAZ2, HW, CoM) 

1400 BC: The Traldar colonists have not 
endured their new home well, and have 
suffered population loss from disease, 
weather, and animal attacks. They revert to a 
pre-agrarian lifestyle. (HW) 



1300 BC: The halflings reach a sheltered land 
along the shores of the Sea of Dread inhabited 
by a reclusive clan of elves. They settle this 
land, which they name Llora. (HW, GAZ8) 

1100 BC: A Nithian mercantile expedition 
led by the adventurer Minroth claims a large 
island in the Sea of Dread which they name 
Trader's Isle and found a settlement they call 
Harbortown. They name the newly 
discovered island chain the Colony Islands. 
(GAZ9, HW) 

1000 BC: Gnolls invade the lands of the 
Traldar. King Milen leads a massive flotilla in 
an exodus to escape the gnolls, heading 
southwards to the continent of Davania. 
Traldar piracy in the Sea of Dread is 
drastically diminished. 

With the Sea of Dread now relatively safe, the 
Nithian Empire extends its colonial holdings 
to the westernmost islands of the Colony 
Isles, conquering and enslaving the Makai 
inhabitants. 

The Nithians also begin transporting Antalian 
slaves to the Colony Isles, to be sent with 
Nithian overlords following the flight of 
Milen' s people, to start colonies in Davania. 
The slaves soon revolt, however, and the 
colonies quickly collapse. (GAZ4, HW) 

800 BC: Elves from the distant Sylvan Realm 
reach the eastern shores of the Sea of Dread 
via a magical rainbow. They attempt to settle 
in the forests there, but are driven out by 
warlike humans. (HW) 

700 BC: The Nithian Empire begins its 
decline, as Entropic Immortals corrupt its 
leaders. 

The eastern Colony Isles are flourishing, and 
the people begin calling themselves the 
Minroth Traders, after the cult that arose to 
honor its founder. They increasingly distance 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CiivieliNe of tlie Sea of Dneat) 




themselves from the Nithian Empire. (HW, 
GAZ9) 

600 BC: Three warrior-tribes, formerly from 
Davania, sail north through the Sea of Dread, 
driven out by Milenian aggression. They make 
landing on the eastern shores, coming into 
conflict with the human tribes that drove out 
the elves 200 years before. (HW, DotE) 

500 BC: The Nithian Empire collapses, and 
all memory of the culture is wiped out by the 
Immortals. All Nithian colonies are destroyed, 
save for those of Thothia and the Colony Isles, 
which have already turned away from the 
Entropic faith which led to the destruction of 
Nithia. 




In the western Colony Isles (now called the 
Ierendi Islands), the Malpheggi lizard men, 
doomed to extinction by a parasitic plague 
brought by the Nithian colonists, wipe out the 
Nithians before dying themselves. 
Goblin slaves brought by the Nithians retreat 
into lava tunnel complexes beneath the islands. 
Whitenight Abbey is established on White Isle, 



populated by followers of the Immortal Orisis 
as a safeguard against any resurgence of the 
dark powers that led to the destruction of 
ancient Nithia. 

The Thyatians, Kerendans, and Hattians have 
by now conquered the human tribes who 
opposed them, and control the region now 
known as Thyatis (HW, DotE, GAZ4) 

250 BC: Thyatian pirates are by now a 
common scourge in the Sea of Dread. (HW) 

200 BC: Fleeing devilfish enemies to the 
south, tritons enter the Sunlit Sea, settling 
waters between the islands of Ierendi and 
Minrothad. 

The tritons and merrow clash over undersea 
territory for several centuries before the more 
organized tritons finally triumph, establishing 
the Kingdom of Tilluaraver, and leaving the 
rest of the Sunlit Sea to the merrow. (PC3) 

192 BC: Irritated by the increasingly wide- 
ranging piracy of the Thyatian tribes, the 
Alphatians launch a campaign to conquer 
Thyatis. (HW, DotE) 

190 BC: The Alphatians complete their 
conquest of Thyatis, bringing its lands and 
peoples into the Empire. (HW, DotE) 

100 BC: The Kikianu Caldera erupts, killing 
the native population and breaking the 
landmass up into four smaller islands. These 
islands will later be repopulated by Makai 
and come to be known as White, Honor, 
Aloysius, and Roister Islands. (GAZ4) 

2 BC: Lucinius Trenzantenbium of Thyatis 
leads a revolt and declares himself King of 
Thyatis; war breaks out between Thyatis and 
Alphatia. (HW, DotE) 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CiivieliNe of tlie Sea of Dneat) 





Crowning of Emperor Zendrolion I 

AC: First Emperor of Thyatis crowned. 

Their economies wrecked by the war, Thyatis 
and Alphatia sign the Treaty of Edairo. Later, 
in Thyatis, General Zendrolion Tatriokanitas 
assassinates King Lucinius and several other 
kings gathered there, crowning himself 
Emperor of Thyatis, Ochalea, and the Pearl 
Islands. 

Thyatians do some trading with Minroth 
islanders. The halflings of the now established 
Five Shires also establish sea trade 
relationships with coastal nations. 
The Verdier and Meditor split over disputes 
about usage of forest wood. The Verdier enter 
a period of isolation. 

Alawyn Verdier, Treekeeper of the forest elves, 
undertakes a quest to find a relic to replace 
their long-lost Tree of Life. (GAZ4, HW, DotE, 
GAZ9, PC3, GAZ8) 



150 AC: Thyatis begins colonizing the 
Alasiyan basin, driving out or enslaving native 
peoples. (GAZ4, DotE, HW) 

250 AC: Alphatia begins colonizing the 
Alasiyan basin in direct competition with the 
Thyatians. 

The Alphatian colony of New Alphatia is 
founded on Trader's Isle, and Alphatian 
air-magics are adapted to more sea-based 
needs. (GAZ4, GAZ9, HW, DotE) 

251 AC: The Alphatians and Minrothians of 
Trader's Isle discover one another and 
though initially are hostile, quickly establish 
a formal alliance (GAZ9) 

276 AC: New volcanic activity in the Sea of 
Dread pushes the Meditor elves into looking 
for new settlements. As they explore, they 
come into contact with the human cultures 
of the Colony Isles and establish trade 
relations. 

The Meditor re-establish ties with the Verdier 
elves, bringing them into the new trading 
combine. (GAZ9) 

284 AC: Conflicts over slavery drives a wedge 
between the Minrothian and Alphatian 
cultures, but the elves force the humans to 
make peace. (GAZ9) 

300 AC: Seahome is established as a trading 
port. (GAZ9) 

313 AC: The Hattians attempt to establish 
independence, but Emperor Alexian II puts 
down their rebellion (DotE) 

c.313 AC: Sir Actius, a warrior-knight of 
Alexian II, is granted an island off the coast 
of Hattias as his dominion, which he names 
after himself. It soon becomes a major 
provisioning center for trade in the Sea of 
Dread. (DotE) 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CiMeliNG of tlie Sea of Dneat) 




360 AC: Minrothians engage in slave trade for 
the Thyatians; halfling slaves are introduced 
into the Colony Islands. (GAZ9) 

410 AC: The plagues of lycanthropy and 
vampirism spread throughout the Sea of Dread 
cultures by unwitting Minroth traders. Even 
the undersea kingdoms are affected. (GAZ9, 
HW, PC3) 

432 AC: The first reported sightings of 
lycanthropic Weresharks in Undersea. (PC4) 

437 AC: Devilfish attack the Sunlit Sea in the 
Great Abysmal Invasion; they first strike at the 
undersea settlements of Ulhedar and Narwa. 
(PCS) 

443-445 AC: The Silver Purge: elves and 
humans led by an elvish adventurer named 
Ruaidrhi purge Trader's Isle of all 
lycanthropes. The human population is sorely 
devastated and the entire colony of New 
Alphatia is wiped out. 




Lycanthropes fleeing the Silver Purge 

Similar events take place in Undersea, with 
many of the lycanthropes fleeing to deeper 
waters. This time is known as the Night of the 
Long Knives. (GAZ9, PC3, PC4) 



450 AC: In the Colony Islands, the hafling 
Malf Quickhand leads a slave revolt and leads 
the newly-freed halflings on ships to the 
island they name Open Isle. 
The elves, long opposed to slavery, quickly 
sign a treaty with the halflings, bringing them 
into the trade federation as freedmen. The 
humans, hurt by the events of the Silver 
Purge, can do little to protest. (GAZ9) 

475 AC: Verdon is established as a trading 
port. (GAZ9) 

488 AC: The scattered humans of the Colony 
Islands are brought together by Hadric 
Corser, the Great Uniter. The city of 
Minrothad is founded on the former site of 
New Alphatia. Corser lays the foundation for 
an organized trading federation. 
The Farmarva family of tritons begins its 
monarchic dynasty in the kingdom of 
Tilluaraver. 

The economy of Actius has begun to sour, as 
traders increasingly use the route through 
Vanya's Girdle as opposed to taking the 
longer route around Cape Hattias. Actius 
turns its resources towards shipbuilding 
instead. (GAZ9, PC3, DotE) 

500 AC: Alphatia and Thyatis begin another 
period of intermitten warfare that will last for 
the next three centuries. The Minroth Traders 
stay neutral as they dominate shipping for 
both sides of the conflict. 
The savage Makai tribes of northwestern 
Ierendi are mysteriously decimated. Legend 
attributes their disappearance as being 
brought on by a curse connected to the tribal 
burial grounds of distant Elegy Island. 
The Battle of Minrothad takes place in the 
bay outside of the city of Minrothad. 
The Clash of the Princes takes place between 
the islands of Alfeisle and Open Isle. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CiivieliNe of tlie Sea of Dneat) 
m 




The Storm Battle takes place at the northeast 
end of Cove Reef. (GAZ4, DotE, GAZ9, HW) 

520 AC: The halfling trading port and capital 
city of Open Isle, Malfton, is established. 

(GAZ9) 

570 AC: Exiles from the Five Shires found a 
settlement on Ierendi Island alongside the 
native Makai inhabitants. (GAZ4) 

571 AC: The Empire of Thyatis begins to use 
the Ierendi Islands as prison colonies, putting 
them into conflict with the Five Shires, who 
are using the islands as naval bases. (GAZ4, 
HW, DotE, GAZ8) 

575 AC: Halfling sea trade flourishes as they 
begin building small, stout, rounded ships 
(nicknamed "wallowing turtles"), which prove 
surprisingly sturdy. (GAZ8) 

582 AC: Last known sighting of a werehawk, 
slain by the Silver Hunter on a tiny island in 
the Sea of Dread. (PC4) 

586 AC: The Empire of Thyatis, at war with 
the Empire of Alphatia and needing ships and 
shipbuilding harbors urgently, seizes the 
Ierendi islands from the halflings with all ships 
in harbor at the time. In retaliation, the 
halflings begin piracy against Thyatian 
shipping, which continues to the present day. 
The navy of Thyatis clashes with the Five Shires 
navy at the Battle of Ierendi and the War of 
Fletcher. 

The Thyatians also clash with halfling pirates 
and kna at the Battle of the Trap off the 
northwestern coast of Safari Island. (GAZ8, 
HW, DotE, PC3) 

593 AC: Battle of the Rovers takes place in the 

deepwater pool of the Kna. 

Ruaidhri kills the last of the werehawks. (PC3, 

PC4) 



600 AC: Mad Creeg the pirate leads a 
rebellion among the prisoners of the Ierendi 
Islands. With the help of the Makai natives, 
Mad Creeg's army drives out the Thyatians. 




Mad Creeg drives out the Thyatians 

Honor Island is settled by a colony of humans 
and their goblin slaves, refugees from an 
Alphatian subject nation southeast of the Isle 
of Dawn. (GAZ4, HW, DotE) 

601 AC: Gregus Verdier, the Second Uniter, 
is born on Alfeisle. (GAZ9) 

602 AC: Mad Creeg claims all of the Ierendi 
Islands, establishing the Kingdom of Ierendi, 
and declaring himself ruler. 

Thyatis, faced with its more urgent war with 
Alphatia, signs a treaty with Mad Creeg, 
abandoning its claims on Ierendi. 
The Honor Islanders establish themselves as 
an independent nation, though they maintain 
close diplomatic ties and an alliance with the 
Kingdom of Ierendi. (GAZ4) 

625 AC: A man named Lord Ingram rules a 
small island nation in the Sea of Dread, 
terrorizing the natives. They call him "the 
Devil Swine." (PC4) 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CiivieliNe of tlie Sea of Dneat) 




637 AC: Mad Creeg's son, Black Toes, assumes 
rulership upon death of his father. He marries 
Kerhy Matrongle from Glantri and assumes 
her surname. The Matrongle family begins 
long control of the island. (GAZ4) 

642 AC: The Council of Lords, a cabinet of his 
closest advisors, is established by Black Toes. 
(GAZ4) 

644 AC : The Thyatians attempt to regain 
control of the Ierendi Islands, but are defeated 
by the islanders with the help of war fleets 
from Honor Island at the Battles of Honor and 
Utter Isle Strait. (GAZ4, PC3, DotE) 

646 AC: Gregus Verdier forges the forest elves 
into a unified political and economic faction. 
(GAZ9) 

650 AC: The first naval school is established 
on Ierendi Island. 

Tomia, a visitor from the Minrothad Guilds, 
combines his magic and the native beliefs of 
the Makai people and establishes himself as 
the leader of a new cult. He founds the 
People's Temple, and begins calling himself 
'The Hope.' Followers and converts flock to 
his teachings. (GAZ4) 

651 AC: Battle of Helk's Drift in the mermen 
kingdom of Nortens. (PC3) 

662 AC: The Sharkfray; shark-kin battle 
devilfish near Sharkville. (PC3) 

681 AC: The Ierendi navy is up to full strength 
and can fully defend islands. (GA24) 

687 AC: Ierendi merchants discover the rich 
trade opportunities Sindhi ports offer. Jaibul 
and Putnabad compete fiercely for foreign 
trade. (CoM) 

691 AC: Honor Island wizards begin secret 
negotiations with the Supreme Symposium of 
Gnomish Syndicates to create combined 



magical/technological warships for the Royal 
Ierendi Navy. 

Gregus Verdier establishes the Council of 
Dread and consolidates the Minroth traders 
into a system of family guilds. The Minrothad 
Guilds are formally established. (GAZ4, GAZ9) 

700 AC: Gregus Verdier disappears at sea, 
murdered by Ierendi assassins hoping to 
disrupt his political ambitions. 
Fanatic missionaries from Minrothad arrive 
in the Ierendi Islands prophesying the birth 
of a child named Right who is destined to 
save humankind. Their cult begins to spread 
among the native Makai. 
The Minrothad Guilds rely increasingly on its 
merchant ships to supplement their navy's 
patrols. The Privateers Guild is formed as a 
direct result. 

The island of Sclaras is declared a 
Protectorate and divided into estates for 
Thyatis's most powerful wizards. (GAZ9, 
GAZ4, DotE) 

713 AC: The Battle of Midpoint; the first 
magical warships and galleys of the Royal 
Navy, along with their mermen allies, utterly 
destroy a Thyatian patrol. The Royal Navy 
achieves instant preeminence among the 
Known World naval powers. (GAZ4, PC3) 

726 AC: The newly-completed Sindhi navy 
of four merchant vessels and a war galley 
mysteriously sinks in Jaibul' s outer harbor 
shortly after returning from their maiden 
voyage to Tanakumba. The rajah of Putnabad 
suspects sabotage on the part of foreign 
merchants jealous of their own lucrative 
positions as middlemen in the trade between 
the eastern and western lands. (CoM) 

748 AC: The merrow of the Sunlit Sea agree 
to continue assisting the Ierendi Navy in 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



TiivieliNe of tl7e Sea of Dneat) 




return for Ierendi protecting sacred merrow 
shrines from pirate plunder. (PC3) 

775 AC: After a major uprising of merchants, 
the Ierendi Council of Lords agrees to 
limitations on its power, and to the popular 
democratic election of the king and queen. 

(GAZ4) 

786 AC: Mount Haumea on Ierendi Island 
erupts, destroying the town of Port Siers and 
its entire population of 1,000 people. The 
Ierendi Navy manages to successfully evacuate, 
but the Naval School is destroyed along with 
the rest of the town. (GAZ4) 

790 AC: The Ierendi Council of Citizens is 
formed, primarily of merchants and influential 
islanders of foreign heritage. The annual 
election ceremony becomes an established 
tradition for revelry and popular celebration. 
(GAZ4) 

794 AC: The Battle of the Uddars in the deep 
waters south of Amari in Undersea. (PC3) 

800-825 AC: An influx of immigration workers 
and craftsmen flood Minrothad. (GAZ9) 

800 AC: Thyatis regains control of Terentias 
isle from Minrothad. 

Devilfish reappear in the Sunlit Sea, and war 
with the inhabitants. 

A volcanic eruption destroys the triton castle 
of Facats. (DotE, PC3) 

816 AC: The Kelp Quarrel in Smaar. (PC3) 

828 AC: Dwarves fleeing persecution in 
Glantri join the list of immigrants to 
Minrothad, settling on Fortress Island. (GAZ9) 

841: The dwarven port of Stronghold is 
established. (GAZ9) 

850-862 AC: The Council of Minrothad refines 
structure and establishes office of ruling guild 



master, appointing Missan Meditor; severe 
laws restricting immigration are passed. 
The guild system is restructured to 
incorporate the newly developed merchant- 
prince class. (GAZ9) 

852 AC: Minrothad explorers discover the 
city of Tanakumba on Thanegia Island. They 
name it "the Most Limpid City of Thanopolis." 

(CoM) 

867 AC: The Council of Lords proposes 
selection of king and queen in an annual 
series of contests called the Royal 
Tournament of Adventurers. The Honor 
Island magic-users offer aid in sponsoring 
and designing the contests. (GAZ4) 

880 AC: Fire Island atoll is declared off-limits 
to all shipping; thieves' guild secretly 
establishes Cove Harbor as a pirate base on 
this island. 

The Fire Battle takes place between the Kna 
of Undersea and Minrothad pirates. (GAZ9) 

890 AC: Ruling guild master Kitrina Meditor 
passes Isolation Act prohibiting immigration 
and most visitors to Minrothad. (GAZ9) 

900 AC: North Isle is annexed by Minrothad, 
and the refuge colony of Gapton is 
established. 

Emperor Gabrionus TV begins a policy of 
expansion. The Empire of Thyatis conquers 
Traladara. 

Followers of the Eternal Truth, brought by 
Ylari merchant ships, establish a sanctuary in 
Ierendi City. (GAZ9, HW, DotE) 

920 AC: The war with the devilfish ends 
indecisively. (PCS) 

935 AC: The contests are opened to any 
adventurers willing to swear allegiance to the 
Council of Lords, the Council of Citizens, and 
Ierendi. (GAZ4) 





198 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CiMeliNG of tlie Sea of Dneat) 




940 AC: All Minrothad trading vessels are now 
captained by merchant-princes and carry 
marines. 

Three volcanic islands arise 50 miles to the 
south of Aloysius island. (GAZ9, PC3) 

950 AC: Minrothad signs neutrality pacts with 
most mainland countries. (GAZ9) 

957 AC: Haradith of the Tall Cedars is the first 
non-Ierendian to win a regency, a feat she 
repeats in 12 of the next 14 years. (GAZ4) 

959 AC: Alphatia and Thyatis begin another 
war. (HW, DotE) 

960 AC: Piracy in the Minrothad Isles is at an 
all-time high as a direct result of suffering trade 
brought on by the Isolation Act of 890. (GAZ9) 



to V 

(PS"*** 




J* 




965 AC: Kitrina Meditor is assassinated by a 
thief from a foreign guild; council of guild 
leaders acts as regent until Oran Meditor 
comes of age. 

Following the death of Kitrina Meditor, the 
Death to Thieves decree is passed, mandating 
immediate trial and death sentences to 
anyone convicted of thievery. (GAZ9) 

970 AC: Triella Tien-Tang discovers the secret 
of the volcano on Mositius Island and 
successfully petitions the Emperor to grant 
her the island as a Barony. (DotE) 

974 AC: Gastenoo's World of Adventure- 
Ierendi's first adventure park- is opened on 
Safari Island. Its proprietors are Gastenoo 
Longblade and Simon Saint-Pierre. (GAZ4) 

975 AC: The Academy of Naval Science is 
founded on site of the original school at Port 
Siers. (GAZ4) 

977-984 AC: Breakwater constructed around 
city of Ierendi. (GAZ4) 

979 AC: Devilfish resume their attacks on 
Undersea. (PCS) 

980 AC: The Ierendi Tribunal (formerly the 
Council of Lords) formed as the official 
advisory council to all palace matters. Council 
consists of both elected individuals and those 
selected by the king and queen. 
Lycanthropes are again discovered in 
Minrothad and Undersea; fear spreads that 
more may have escaped the Silver Purge. 
(GAZ4, GAZ9, PC3, PC4) 

988 AC: Thyatians mount an expedition to 
colonize the southern continent and establish 
Ravenscarp. (DotE) 

989 AC: Oran Meditor takes office, institutes 
reforms. 

By this time, lycanthropes have been spotted 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CiivieliNe of tlie Sea of Dneat) 




in places on all of the Minrothad Islands. 
Koom's Fight in the southern Sea of Dread. 

(GAZ9, PC3) 

990 AC: Thyatian and Ierendi pirates step up 
their raids on Minrothad Guilds ships. Guild 
Privateers respond in kind. (GAZ9) 

991 AC: Oran Meditor rescinds the Isolation 
Act and opens Minrothad to outside contact. 
(GAZ9) 

995 AC: First assassination attempt on Oran 
Meditor; Clan Elsan promoted to replace Clan 
Kasan, who were behind the attempt. 
Mineral deposits are discovered on Aloysius 
Island. Ierendi encourages settlement of the 
island, leading to conflicts with the native 



Makai. Dwarvish settlers arrive with the 
blessing of the government. (GAZ9, GAZ4) 

998 AC: Second assassination attempt on 
Oran Meditor. 

Undead are reported in the waters to the 
south of Undersea. (GAZ9, PC3) 

1000 AC: Minrothad celebrates 150 years of 
nationhood; Oran Meditor makes public 
appearances to stop rumors of his continued 
ill health. 

Shark-kin tribes take up arms against the land 
dwellers; devilfish increase their attacks; the 
numbers of undead and werecreatures grows. 
(GA29, PC3) 



TXje roMia Cobe 

The People's Temple of Ierendi is 
generally viewed as a benevolent 
organization, albeit one founded 
by a con-artist from Minrothad. But 
what if the underpinnings of the 
church are more nefarious than 
they appear? Perhaps Tomia was a 
cleric or even an avatar of 
Masauwu, the fast-talking Entropic 
also of Minrothad origins? The 
People's Temple might actually be 
a front for him to pursue his aims 
via the unwitting people of Ierendi. 
Gaz4 includes a number of 
adventure seeds involving the 
church and its long-vanished 
commandments, the Hope Stones. 
Consider adding Masauwu as the 
church's hidden sponsor to these 
adventures to bring a more deadly 
and potentially consequential epic 
undertaking. 




ElGMeNtal Upheavals 

There is some 
inconsistency 
with the dates of 
the Great 
Elemental 
upheavals in 
canon sources. 
In particular, the 
dates of 1750, 
1720, and 1700 
are used to refer 

to several of the same events, in seemingly 
conflicting accounts. This timeline has used as many 
of them in direct connection with their source as 
possible, but where conflicts occurred, generally 
defers to the most recent, or most commonly used 
date as possible. In any event, it should be 
considered that all of these dates are not intended 
to be exact, but rather to reflect an ongoing time of 
considerable change. Some more in-depth coverage 
of the dating conflicts can be found at the Piazza . 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 




200 




Issue #3 



"Ci7e ARnopolis of Kotesl? 





City of the Oqne king, patrt i 
e AkaopoLis of kotesh 

Atev, level 23 



' i ?; 
f 

- 1 * rs 




by Francesco Defferrari (Sturm) 



The text below was the original 
description of this level in issue 1 of 
Threshold Magazine (Mirror of Eternal 
Night article). Read on to discover more 
on this level of Koskatep! 



Kulfan, an ogre king, established his throne 
hall on this level five centuries ago. No one 
remembers how his once powerful kingdom 
came to an end; the ogres say it was a human 
attack, but it could have been a war between 
ogres and giants, or the wrath of a dragon. 
This level is indeed partially burned and much 
of what was once contained within was 
destroyed or pillaged long ago. The walls and 
the rooms were built by giants and ogres with 
surprisingly good craftsmanship, and there 
may still be undiscovered rooms or tombs that 
contain the treasures of the ogres kingdom. 
This level is empty except for some random 
dungeon critters such as oozes, giant insects, 
and worms. 




The secret: 
Kulfan occupied 
the ruins in the 
name of Nyx but jjj 
was destroyed by ^ 
powerful clerics 
of Ixion, that 
were soon 
destroyed 
themselves by an 
ancient evil sent 
by Thanatos. 
Nothing is left of 

their bones and items, but the worn out diary 
of the main cleric of Ixion is still hidden in a 
crack of the throne room. 

After the Darkers take control, some female 
ogres and female giants with children, wives 
of the ones above, live here and are slowly 
cleaning and rebuilding the place. They will 
obviously be hostile if intruders have killed 
their husbands and either way they will 
immediately try to warn the Darkers in the 
levels below. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"die Aknopolis of Kotesl? 




RELEVANT HISTTORy 
(EXPANDED FROM ISSUE 
I OF THRESHOLD) 

603 BC: The ogre king Kulfan conquers 
Koskatep in the name of Nyx, defeating the 
gnolls that inhabited the city before, and 
ogres rule over the area for centuries. Human 
priests of the Lady of the Night live in the city 
along with them. At this time the west of 
Traladara was more a gnoll country than a 
human one. The ogres, come recently from 
the area of the modern Five Shires and 
beyond, ally with local giants, in the area for 
millennia, and with them break the power of 
the gnolls. They were aided also by local 
humans of Tal ancestry (descendants of 
Taymora), followers of Nyx. The three races 
live peacefully in the area for centuries, under 
Kulfan and his descendants, ogres and giants 
kings. They had to fight frequent wars against 
the gnolls and sometimes against ores, who 
constantly arrived from the west. 

517 BC War between ores and gnolls in the 
west. The two people lose their strength in 
a pointless territorial war and ogres and 
giants gain from their weakness. 

496 BC Achelos Chardastes Halarov, heir of 
king Halav, escapes from civil war and 
establishes the first seed of his dominion in 
western Traladara. Relationships with ogres 
and giants are good at first for the common 
struggle against gnolls and ores. 

190 BC After fifty years of wars the gnolls are 
defeated by ogres and humans, and pushed 



into the mountains. Ogres and Giants of 
Kotesh dominate the Cruth area, including 
ore tribes, but soon enmity with the local 
humans grows. 

100 AC The Duchy of Achelos, grown in 
power and men, begins a full attack against 
the ogres and giants of Kotesh to conquer 
the city. The war will last five years. 

95 AC: The Darkers almost complete the 
ritual to use the Starlake and bring forth the 
Eternal Night, but are stopped at the last 
moment by an army of priests of Ixion, from 
all over the Known World, who drive out 
the ogres and occupy Koskatep for years. 
Soldiers of the Duchy of Achelos join the 
attack and establish good relations with the 
temple of Ixion that is consecrated in the 
akropolis of Kotesh. 

201 AC: The citadel of Kotesh, now 
occupied by priests of Ixion and Achelos 
soldiers, is under constant attack not so 
much from ogres and giants but rather from 
gnolls and ores, whose presence in the west 
is growing again. 

227 AC: The priests of Ixion have repelled 
several attempts by ogres, giants and 
followers of Nyx trying to reclaim the ruins, 
but are destroyed at last by a very powerful 
and ancient vampire sent by Thanatos, The 
Last One. Some of them escape to the lowest 
level and become defenders of the inner 
temple. In the following centuries ogres, 
giants, followers of Nyx, and even 
adventurers sent by Ixion try to reclaim 
Koskatep, but The Last One destroys them 
all. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G Aknopolis of Kotesl? 




Leading down from Level 1 of Koskatep 
(published in issue 2 of Threshold 
magazine)- the first layer encountered, 
coming down from room 11 or 44, is LEVEL 
2 B, the Acropolis of the former ogre city of 
Kotesh: 

Level 2B was the castle built by the Ogre King 
Kulfan in 603 BC and occupied by all of his 
descendants until 95 AC. 

The level was later inhabited by several 
members of the Church of Ixion from 95 AC, 



when they conquered the Ogre city, to 227 
AC, when they were exterminated by the 
powerful vampire The Last One. It has two 
passages to the level above and one to the 
level below. Doors from room to room are 
depicted as closed portals as most of them 
are stuck and may be difficult to open. There 
are also other small passages where walls 
have been partially tunnelled by various 
critters through the ages, but these are 
mostly collapsed and difficult to pass for 
humans. 



koslutep 
Level 2B 



tuNNei to level onc 
room 11 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"Ciie ARnopolis of Kotesl? 




I - Oje Formgr T^eRRace, 

NOW UNDeRQROUND 

This big area is cluttered with debris that often 
obstructs the view and creates a veritable maze. In the 
past it had statues and reliefs done by ogres and giants 
that were later destroyed and replaced by similar 
decorations done by priests and followers of Ixion. 
Now most of them are ruined too, but lying around 
there are still bronze statues of the Immortal, his 
chosen or famous personalities of the church, and 
reliefs depicting the sun or great victories of the church 
on the walls. All these things have a huge archeological 
and monetary value for the church of Ixion and rich 
collectors in general, but are quite hard to move. In 
this area and throughout all this level random critters 
can be encountered, roll ld20 on the Random Critters 
Table. There is also a 1% chance on Id 100 in each 
room that a Wandering Party can be encountered, see 
Table 2. 

After the Darkers take control they will begin to clean 
the terrace from debris, objects, remains, and 
decorations of the church of Ixion, replacing them 
with their statues and reliefs praising Nyx. Among the 
statues there will be also a guardian Obsidian golem 
that will attack any intruder not saying "Night eternal" 
upon entering the terrace. The chance of encounters 
with random critters and wandering parties should 
be much diminished at this time. The skeletons will 
be used against the Darkers by The Last One, but they 
will destroy them all. 



2 - HYfG FORMGR THRONG ROOM 

or Ixion's t:eMple 

This large room is partially occupied by collapsed 
blocks from the original ceiling. It is therefore difficult 
to navigate, and the current ceiling is much lower than 
the original one at several points. The northwestern 




(1) The terrace was completely 
buried by a landslide after The Last 
One and his minion killed the 
followers of Ixion in 227 AC, but 
later was partially cleared by the 
gnolls, humans and ogres that 
occupied the first level in the 
following centuries, even if most 
of them managed to occupy this 
level permanently only for brief 
times. The PCs however could find, 
with extensive searching, weapons 
or items lost here by gnolls, human 
troops of Achelos, ores, ogres, 
giants, human followers of Nyx, 
traladaran rebels, thyatians priests 
of Ixion, as well as their remains. 
IdlOO skeletons could be 
reanimated here by a necromancer. 



(2) The first extensive destruction 
of the room was caused by The Last 
One invasion in 227 AC, then it was 
aggravated by successive battles 
and landslides. Not much remains 
therefore of the many statues, wall 
paintings and reliefs praising Ixion 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G ARnopolis of Kotesl? 




corner is better preserved, and was partially cleared 
out by humanoids in the past - traces of campfires 
are evident in the corner. 

Near the entrance to area 4, there are a few unstable 
blocks of stone forming an archway. Clumsy and/or 
large passersby may trigger a collapse (on a failed 
Dex roll, +4 bonus for medium sized creatures, 
smaller creatures have no chance of triggering the 
collapse) . Random Critters Table apply. 

After the Darkers this room will be slowly cleared 
to eventually be transformed into a temple dedicated 
to Nyx. 2dl0+2 female ogres and 2d4 hill giant 
females, with ldlO children of either race will be 
there at any time during the day, but they'll sleep in 
room 3 during the night. If the PC's aren't allied with 
the Darkers they will be hostile but will fight only 
to protect the children and will try to flee to room 
3 and the level below almost immediately. 



3 - HYig Stoue ROOM 

This room was once used to store excess furniture 
and other items used to decorate the throne room 
on various occasions. It was sacked during the fall 
of the ogre city, and nothing of value remains here. 
A portion of the floor has collapsed, giving access 
to the lower level of the ogre king's fortress. The 
original access stairs are likely buried and nowadays 
lost. 

Descending to the next level is somewhat hazardous, 
since the lower room has an ogre-sized height. 
Climbing or mountaineering equipment (rope and 
pitons) make the descent easy. Without equipment, 
characters without the Climbing thief skill need to 
pass a Dex check, lest they fall down and suffer ld6 
HP of damage. 



that the priests made in the 132 
years in which the temple was 
consecrated to the sun god. 
Nothing at all remains of the many 
centuries before in which this was 
the throne room of Kulfan and 
other ogre kings. Yet, if a cleric of 
Ixion enters the temple, he'll see 
what's left of these decorative 
elements glow, as a hope that the 
temple could be rebuilt. During 
the time of the ogres, in the right 
side of the huge room where once 
stood the magnificent throne of 
Kulfan, there is a secret 
compartment in the floor. It 
contains the diary of Kulfan and 
his magical banner, an item that 
would be really prized by ogres. 
The same compartment also has 
the diary of Fedor, high priest of 
Ixion (see room 3B below), the 
one who hid these items. 




(3) Used as storage room by the 
priests of Ixion too, the room 
hasn't much left but some old 
copper trinkets, centuries old, that 
could have a value for 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"die ARnopolis of Kotesl? 




After the Darkers arrive this room is used by female 
ogres and hill giants, see above. The Last One will 
not use Fedor in the first Darkers invasion but will 
keep him for after. If the Darkers discover him 
before, they'll offer him the opportunity to join 
them, but he'll refuse instead and choose true death. 



4 - HY)G Wauetiouse 

This room was used as a dormitory by the priests of 
Ixion of centuries ago and old broken beds can still 
be seen among the piles of rubble. Is connected to 
room 2 and 3 via almost crumbled doors. Usually it 
is occupied by random critters. Some minimal 
personal item of the priests can be found, such as 
coins, vials, shoes and boots, belts, clothes, pictures, 
small mirrors and figurines. 

The Darkers will destroy the ghouls and soon the 
female ogres and hill giants will begin to use the 
room as a bathroom, equipping it with water, soap 
and brushes. Eventually the passage to the Hill Giant 
tomb (room 44, Level 1, in issue 2 of Threshold 
magazine) will be closed. 



RUMORS ON THIS AND 
NEARBy LEVELS 

Before the arrival of the Darkers, the ogres, hill 
giants and ores of Level 1 do know roughly the 
layout of Level 2B and 2A, which will be detailed in 
Threshold Issue #4. They know the two sublevels 
below are inhabited by several critters (see Table 1) 
and, sometimes, dangerous undead that can be 
encountered. They also suspect that a great, 
powerful, and evil being lives below. They know 
little of levels 3-5, except that they would be 
inhabited by malevolent dead gnolls. An ancient 




< 1 

I 206 1 



antiquarians. Fedor, high priest of 
Ixion (mummy C12), was buried 
here under the floor of the upper 
left corner by The Last One, that 
occasionally visits in person just 
to mock him. Fedor is bounded to 
him but wishes for freedom above 
anything: if a cleric turns him there 
is a 40% chance that he'll be able 
to break The Last One's control, a 
70% chance if he's a cleric of Ixion. 



(4) At the time of the Ogre Kings 
this was the dressing room, but 
nothing is left of paraments and 
wardrobes now. Just a few years 
ago The Last One hid, here under 
the rubble, the corpses of some 
Darokinian adventurers that he'll 
reanimate as ghouls if necessary. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CI7G ARnopolis of Kotesl? 




legend of the Cruth area also tell that a 
powerful artifact that "could change the 
world" is buried deep in the lowest levels, 
but guarded by extremely powerful 
monsters. 

After the arrival of the Darkers, they will 
effectively conquer all the levels from 1 to 8 
(even if some not completely, see issue 1 of 
Threshold magazine) and will begin to draw 
maps of them. Darkers roaming a level could 
then have a map of it, but the more complete 
ones will be in the hands of Lord Keiros in 
level 5 or other high ranking Darkers in level 
7. The Darkers will not be aware of The Last 
One still hiding in level 10, nor of the 
inhabitants and layout of the levels from 10 
to 13. 



THE BATTLES IN THIS 
LEVEL 

During the first invasion of Koskatep by the 
Darkers, they'll have the forces detailed in issue 
2 of Threshold magazine, page 120. The Last 
One will fight back here with IdlOO skeletons 
and 4 corpses of Darokian adventurers 
reanimated as ghouls (rooms 1 and 4). The 
Darkers will destroy them all. 

When he decides to strike back he'll send Fedor 
(room 3) and 2 more ghouls (room 4) against 
the ogre and giant females and children. If the 
PC's intervene before however, Fedor could 
already have been freed from The Last One's 
control. 



Table 2: WaNbeuiNQ Panties 



Roll Party 
(ld6) 

1 Vampire party 



2 Ogres party 



3 Ores party 



4 Darkers party 



Notes (These people could be hostiles or not, depending 
on the PC's allegiance and attitude) 

A group of adventurers (one or two less than the PC's) who 
were killed years ago by The Last One and raised as vampires. 
They could be now committed followers of Thanatos or rather 
desperately trying to escape their bound. 

A scouting party of Ogres (two less than PC's) and one Hill 
Giant of the Cruth tribes, exploring the level in the hope of 
clearing and rebuilding it. 

A scouting party of Upper Kotesh Ores (same number as PC's, 
see area 15, Level 1) exploring and foraging around the level. 

A scouting party of Darkers (same number as PC's), with at least 
one wizard and one cleric, exploring this level in preparation 
of their coming invasion. 



5-6 Adventurers party Random adventurers, (same number as PC's), could be aligned 

with Karameikos' government or with the church of Ixion, or 
even both, or Traladaran rebels, or just random people 
searching for treasures. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"C17G ARnopolis of Kotesl? 




rable i : RaNDoM Cuitteus 



Roll 

(ld20) 


Monster 


Number 
appearing 


1 


Giant Amoeba 


i 


A 


Baric 1 


~l A£ 

lao 


5 


Bats 


all) (J 


4 


Giant Beetle, Fire 


lao+4 


c 
3 


Black Pudding 


i 


/i 
o 


Carrion Crawler 


1 A3. 


?7 

/ 


Giant Centipede 


OAA 

Za4 


Q 
O 


Fungus, Shrieker 


i 


n 

y 


Gelatinous Cube 


i 


1U 


Ochre Jelly 


i 


11 


Giant Rats 


zao+4 


1Z 


Rhagodessa 


laz 


Id 


Rockfang 2 


1-Z 


1 A 
14 


Koper 


1 


15 


Rust Monster 


ld2 


16 


Giant Spiders, Crab 


ld6+2 


17 


Sporacle 


1 


18 


Stirge 


2d4 


19 


Giant Toad 


ld3+2 


20 


Yellow Mold? 


ld4 



1 See Palace of the Silver Princess, first edition , page 26 

2 See Gaz8: The Five Shires. 

3 This monster is not actually wandering. Rolling it means that a patch 
of Yellow Mold has recently grown in this particular spot. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 





ATIAN SEN 




X 



'After this I'll never need to think of a Thyati 
NPC for my Campaign again") 




This article provides statistics for NPCs in 
Advanced Dungeons and Dragons, 2nd 
Edition format. The Rake kit is identical to 
the Swashbuckler kit from the Savage Coast 
Campaign Book. When using the content 
in a Classic D&D game, replace Rangers 
with Foresters and Thieves with the "Rake" 
kit with the Classic D&D Rake class. 



The Empire of Thyatis is a land of intrigue 
and complex politics. The chaotic structure 
of the Empire is the result of layers of the 
cultures, ethnicities and populations that have 
built its millennial history on the Known 
World and beyond. The Hattians invented the 
feudal system that has been exported to 
Glantri, Karameikos, Heldann, to the Savage 
Baronies and Eusdria. In ancient Thyatis, 
before Alphatian conquest, Thyatians evolved 
their Senate from the Milenian Empire to 
build the most democratic institution of the 



Known World since. And the first Thyatian 
Emperor, Zendrolion I, modelled the figure 
of the Emperor on the Doulakki tyrannoi and 
on the Alphatian Emperor. It is small wonder 
Thyatian politics are so complicated and 
convoluted, and it also explains why 
corruption and inefficiency are ever on the 
rise in Thyatis: if you cannot get what you 
want from a dominion ruler, you can try with 
a Senator; if you cannot get to the Throne for 
a favour, you can turn to some Church or 
another; and if you cannot get the judgement 
you like in the trial, you can turn to another 
Praetor or Tribunus to overturn the result or 
to prosecute the mayor who fined you. On 
the other hand, this also means that the level 
of protection and maneuvering space for the 
average citizen is higher than in most other 
human countries of the Known World - and 
one of the reasons for the Empire's survival 
and popularity, even among conquered 
peoples. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




MACJISriUVCI 

Just like in ancient Republican Rome, most 
political posts in Thyatis are elective - the 
Magistrati, in particular, are all members of 
the Senate. While in ancient Republican Rome, 
elections were held every year and each post 
was assigned through individual elections, in 
the Empire of Thyatis, elections are held 
between four and six years from each other, 
and individual positions are assigned by the 
Senate. The rationale is that the Empire's 
elections involve a large territory, whereas the 
Roman Republic was essentially a city state. 

The Senate assigns posts (at the head of the 
judiciary, military, and administrative 
machine) in its first sessions after the elections, 
in order of rank, starting from the Censores 
(who are thus, at least theoretically, the higher 
Senators in rank after the Princeps Senatus, 
i.e. the Emperor). There are 23 Magistrati 
Imperiales ("Emperor's Magistrates") who 
make up the governmental cabinet 



(comitatus) and thus respond directly to the 
Emperor. Since they must be his voice in the 
Senate, their election can be vetoed by the 
Emperor, so generally their choice is the most 
intriguing and important part of the first 
weeks after the elections. 

The remaining 11 Magistrates, called 
Magistrati Plebei ("People's Magistrates"), 
are chosen only by and among the Elective 
Senators, as they are meant to represent and 
champion interests of the common people, 
rather than the Emperor or the aristocracy, 
and cannot be vetoed. 

Furthermore, the rules of the cursus 
honorum state that a Senator cannot be 
elected Censor without having been first a 
Consul, Consul without having been a 
Praetor, and Praetor without having been a 
Quaestor. This forces political officials to have 
some experience and mitigates well-known 
issues of corruption in the assignment of such 
posts. Aediles and Tribuni are not subject to 
this rule. 



Figure 1: 
The Thyatian 
Government & the 
Cursus Honorum 



CIVIL 
ADMINISTRATION 



MILITARY & 
POLICE 



JUDICIARY 




SENATORS 



CENSORES 


CONSULES 


(tribuni) 


AEDILES 


QUAESTORES 


PRAETORES 



NOBLES 




DOMINION 
RULERS 




DOMINION 
RULERS 




DOMINION 
RULERS 


















CIVIL 
SERVANTS 




MAJOR 
MAGISTR.1 

MINOR 

MAGLSTR.1 






I I 


PROVINCIAL 
GOVERNORS 

RECTORES 


1 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




CeNSoues (2 - all lMpeniale$ 

Censores are responsible for the Census, the 
registry of citizens and their property; for 
keeping public morals; and for administering 
the finances of the state, in particular for what 
concerns the superintendence of public works 
(including the Aediles' activities) and of tax 
collection. Censores are considered the 
highest Magistrates of the Empire after the 
Emperor, and the political heads of the civilian 
administration. 

CoNSules (2 - all iMpem'a/e^ 

Consules are the political heads of the 
Thyatian military machine. These officials have 
the important task of supervising the 
distribution of pay to the Thyatian military, as 
well as its logistical provisioning. Consules are 
also tasked with inspection of the Imperial 
Armed forces, ensuring their quality. They 
work with the Imperial High Command to plan 
the military organisation, as well as directing 
research and development of new ships, 
engines of war, support the study of battle 
spells, and supervising military academies and 
training centres. 

In war times, one of the two Consuls is 
expected to go into battle, while the other 
remains in the capital. Thus, depending on 
whether the Emperor remains in Thyatis or 
leads the army, one of the Consuls replaces 
the Emperor (either as the field commander 
or as the Princeps Senatus), and the other acts 
as the Emperor's chief advisor and second-in- 
command. 

Traditionally, the Senate draws one Consul 
from the Aristocratic Senators and one from 
the Elective ones. 



Puaetoues (s - all lMpeniale$ 

Praetores are the chiefs of the judiciary, and 
are assigned responsibility over specific 
regions. Two Praetores are assigned to the 
City of Thyatis {the Praetor Urbanus) and the 
Duchy of Thyatis (the Praetor Peregrinus) . 
The others are assigned to: the Duchy of 
Kerendas, with responsibility over 
continental Mainland Thyatis; the County of 
Hattias, with responsibility over the islands 
of Mainland Thyatis; the Grand Duchy of 
Westrourke, with responsibility over the 
northern Isle of Dawn; Fort Redstone, with 
responsibility over the southern Isle of Dawn; 
the Grand Duchy of Ochalea; and the Grand 
Duchy of the Pearl Islands. 

Praetores act as a supreme court of the 
Empire, and as such they are the only ones 
who can prosecute another Praetor, a Consul, 
a Censor, or the Emperor. In practice, the 
primary role of Praetores is that of monitoring 
the work of the local justice courts. 

All foreign citizens wishing to bring to court 
a Thyatian citizen or another foreigner must 
get the approval of the Praetor Peregrinus, 
which makes it all but impossible for 
foreigners outside the Duchy of Thyatis to 
actually bring anyone to court, unless they 
have Thyatian friends to rely on. 

AeDiles (2-1 iMpenialis aNb i 
Plebeu$ 

Aediles are Magistrates responsible for the 
repair and preservation of temples, sewers 
and aqueducts, street cleansing and paving 
in the City of Thyatis; regulations regarding 
traffic, dangerous animals and dilapidated 
buildings; precautions against fire; 
superintendence of baths and taverns; 
investigation of black market, profiteering, 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




and similar charges; purchase of grain for 
disposal at a low price in case of necessity; 
superintendence and organization of the 
public games. 

Note that the Aediles are not part of the civilian 
administration per se, so they have neither a 
staff nor a budget. Like other Magistrates, they 
are assisted by adjutores, who are in their case 
drawn from the officia of the civilian 
administration, but unlike other Magistrates, 
most of the Aediles' activities are self-funded. 
Ambitious Senators often spend enormous 
sums from their personal wealth in the latter 
activity to win popular favor and re-election. 

Every dominion has similar offices - two men 
elected during local elections as Duumviri 
Aedilicii. However, the Aediles, in addition to 
being directly in charge of Thyatis City, can 
overrule any decision made by local Duumviri. 
As is often the case in the Empire, something 
like this means only that there is more 
potential for bribery - so Aediles see a lot of 
money come and go in their position. 

Quaestoues ( x o - all lMpen/a/e$ 

Quaestores are the chiefs of the Imperial 
police, which is part of the Thyatian Army. In 
general, police force responsibility follows 
similar patterns to the judiciary. However, 
there are two more Quaestores than there are 
Praetores, as the border police forces in Tel 
Akbir and the police forces of the demi-human 



domains have separate commands from 
Kerendas. 

The Imperial police are sometimes at odds 
with the local rulers' dominion guards ~ this 
depends on many factors, especially the 
relationship between rulers and Quaestores, 
Quaestores and their own troops, and even 
Imperial troops stationed in a region and 
local dominion police. This makes for highly 
complicated interactions (and a skyrocketing 
of bribes if you want to be sure nobody 
bothers you). 

TuibuNi ( i o - all P/ebe/j 

The Tribuni are technically not Magistrates, 
but rather officials charged with the 
responsibility of protecting the common 
Thyatian citizen from abuse by rulers and 
Senators. This means that, by law, every 
Thyatian citizen can appeal to a Tribunus to 
avoid any penalty, fine, punishment or trial, 
provided the Tribunus agrees - in this case 
what happens is generally an appeal 
judgement with the Tribunus as judge, 
although the Tribunus can simply decide to 
overrule the judgement and nullify it. The 
power of the Tribuni is thus great, although 
it is seldom used. Senators are extremely 
careful in selecting the Tribuni: wrong 
choices have often resulted in indiscriminate 
liberties for the supporters or patrons of a 
Tribunus, with devastating effects, so Tribuni 
are often the most honest and righteous 
politicians in Thyatis. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CiiyatiaN SeNatons 




IMPERIAL MACJISmi 

The civilian administration is supervised by 
the Censores, who are assisted by many high 
ranking civil servants. These apical positions 
in the administration are assigned by the 
Emperor independently of the Senate (and 
usually outside of it), and are called the 
Magistri ("Masters", or "Ministers"). Each 
Magister heads an Officium (bureau), which 
can be in turn subdivided into Scrinia 
(departments). 

MajoR Maqistui 

The four most important Magistri, those in 
charge of the imperial finances, magical and 
mundane resources, and other critical aspects 
of the civil administration, are actually as 
powerful as the Magistrates themselves, and 
as such they are almost always inducted in the 
Senate as Meritory Persons as soon as they are 
nominated to their post. Magistri hold to posts 
until removed by the Emperor, although the 
Senate may vote to "encourage" the Emperor 
to do so. 



Magister Arcanum ("Minister of Magic") 
This officer is in charge of maintaining the 
records of the Senate and other governmental 
agencies, as well as supervising the Collegium 
Arcanum. He is usually a man of great 
learning, and often an experienced Magic 
User, since he is given responsibility over 
magical matters as well. The staff of this 
Magister includes many sages and learned 
men, and more than a few Clerics and Mages 
of repute can be found in this officium. 

Magister Aerarii 

The Aerarium is, in effect, the "Ministry of the 
Treasury", supervising the Imperial Mint, as 
well as performing the tasks of a "national 
bank" ~ primarily the control and 
maintenance of a national monetary reserve, 
but also the management of credit lines in 
favour of local rulers for dominion 
development purposes. Besides a number of 
civilian clerks (scribae), this officium also 
supervises the Sacellarii, a small but highly 
trained unit of guards. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Magister Vestarii 

This officium deals with objects other than 
cash, and supervises the Imperial Arsenal. 
"Objects other than cash" include magic items, 
alchemical workshops, research facilities and 
results, and the like. The Vestarium also has 
access to potent magic, and the very location 
of its most important projects is a tightly held 
secret. 

Magister Offlciorum 

This minister is primarily in charge of 
maintaining the imperial communication and 
information network. This includes 
supervision of legations to foreign lands, 
collection of reports of explorers, as well as 
intelligence and counter-intelligence 
functions. To the Magister Offlciorum report 
the Speculatores (military explorers), the 
Cursus Imperialis (public postal service), the 
Viatores (couriers) and the Agentes in Rebus 
(a group of elite agents, who both act as spies 
and general adventurers in the service of the 
Empire). The Agentes are mostly Rangers 
(most of them belonging to the Foresters 
corps), Bards and Thieves (many self-styled as 
Rakes, or 'non-thieving thieves', in Thyatis) 1 , 
although the ranks are open to all character 
classes. Two Agentes are assigned to each 
Dominion, although they report directly to the 
central administration, and not to the local 
rulers. Other Agentes are sent as part of the 
staff of legations, legions, or operate 
independently. While the Agentes are mostly 
involved in information gathering in urban 
areas, the Speculatores are more concerned 
with collection of geographical data, 
reconnaissance operations, and even monster 
hunting. They are more heavily drawn from 
the military, so many Fighters and Clerics are 



In Classic D&D, the Agentes are mostly Foresters, Rakes 
and Thieves. 



employed in addition to Rangers and Thieves. 
Speculatores tend to act in small groups, 
whereas Agentes often operate alone or in 
pairs. 

Besides adventuring personnel, many clerks 
(scribae) are employed by this Magister for 
organizational and record keeping duties. 

Minor Maqistui 

There are a number of lesser Magistri, who 
are in charge of smaller bureaus of the 
Thyatian administration. The following four 
are the most notable of them, but other minor 
Magistri are in charge of tax collection, 
managing the civilian personnel in service of 
the emperors, or assisting the major magisters. 

Magister Petitionum 

This officium has two main roles. The first is 
to act as a filter between petitioners and the 
throne, sorting petitions and removing 
irrelevant ones. The second is to lobby the 
Senate so that the Emperor's will, and that 
of the Magistri, is speedily converted to law. 

Magister Rerum Privatarum 

This minor magister manages the Imperial 
estates, palaces and other economic activities 
directly owned by the crown. This officium 
may seem relatively minor, but provides a 
great degree of control on people who are 
in direct contact with the Emperor, and thus 
implies a high degree of security. 

Magister Largitionum 

This official is in charge of the Imperial 
orphanages and other charitable institutions. 
He is usually a renowned Cleric, and has a 
small administrative staff. This officium also 
controls land grants sufficient to support its 
charitable works, supplementing direct 
government largess. 





214 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Magister Fabtlcae 

This officium is in charge of the Imperial 
arsenals in Thyatis city, Lucinius, and Beitung. 
It controls the assignment of naval 
constructions, weapon provisioning, and 
training facilities for artillerists, sappers, and 
siege engineers. This officium reports both to 
the Censores and to the Consules. 

LOCAL OFFICERS 

In addition to the Emperor, dominion rulers, 
Senatorial Magistrates and Imperial Magistri, 
there are also local rulers in the Empire. Every 
village and town with at least 500 adult citizens 
is entitled to elect a Rector Urbis (mayor), 
who reports to the dominion ruler and to the 
Praetor of his or her area. Rectores receive 
dominion funds from the dominion rulers to 
perform local errands and employ local 
officers, including town guards. The Rector is 
elected every time there is a Senatorial election 
or every time one Rector dies or steps down. 
If there are less than six months before a new 
Senatorial election, the town is put under 
direct administration of the local dominion 
ruler. 

Cities and bigger towns, in addition to a 
Rector, might have a council, called Ordo, of 
elected officers (from four to twenty, 
depending on population and local laws). The 
Rector calls the council sessions and is 
responsible for local administration and 
relations with the other branches of the 
Thyatian government. 

Dominion guards are employed directly by the 
dominion rulers, who can add their own 
personal wealth to enhance the numbers and 
equipment in addition to those bought with 
tax money. More often than not, the mayor of 
a dominion capital, although elected by the 



citizens, is a member of the local rulers' 
entourage. 

justice in rHyAns 

City, town and village mayors, dominion 
rulers and Praetores all act as prosecutors in 
the Thyatian government - although only 
Praetores can prosecute all over the Empire, 
while mayors and dominion rulers can 
prosecute criminals only on their lands. Only 
Praetores can prosecute Praetores, Consules, 
Censores and dominion rulers. Investigations 
might be carried out by officers of the 
Imperial Army police (under the orders of 
their Quaestores), or by the local city guards, 
or by dominion guards. Praetores have no 
investigative power and must rely on the 
Quaestores and their police forces to do the 
investigations. Mayors must rely on the chief 
of guards - but it is up to them to select him 
or her, and in small villages the two often are 
one and the same person. Dominion rulers, 
on the other hands, supervise investigators 
and prosecutors at the same time. 

In a trial, the defendant can choose to defend 
herself, or to employ a lawyer. Lawyers must 
have a degree in Law from a University, or 
have registered after a short (and expensive 
- although by far less than studying for years 
in Biazzan or in the City of Thyatis) six-week 
course at an authorized governmental body. 
Many of these lawyers are second-hand 
lawyers that are often corrupt or inefficient, 
but sometimes a few gifted have risen among 
the best lawyers in the Empire. 

The Empire's judiciary machine is complex, 
and regulations are far from clear or well- 
codified. In most simple or unimportant 
cases, prosecutors act also as judges. 
However, it is common for the prosecutor to 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




draft a judge or jury for the trial. Mayors who 
act as prosecutors generally form a jury of 
twelve citizens to judge citizens, or ask the 
local dominion ruler or Praetor, or even a 
Tribunus, if the matter is delicate or ends up 
involving powerful or dangerous individuals. 
Praetores and dominion rulers generally ask 
each other to help out. If the matter is 
especially delicate, a Praetor or ruler might 
form a jury of three Senators and/or rulers. 
There is no codification for this procedure, so 
any type of jury might be called upon by a 
prosecutor - and a prosecutor is always on the 
safe side of the law if he decides to keep the 
matter entirely in his hands. 

coNsrrcuENcy 

SENATORS 

There are 99 Senators representing specific 
constituencies, divided as follows: 21 ruler 
representatives, 11 dukes/archdukes, 60 
elected representatives from dominions, 7 
elected representatives from other Imperial 
territories. 

Each Dominion Ruler of the Empire has the 
right to choose a representative in the Senate. 
A Ruler with the status of Baron or Count may 
even choose to be his own representative, but 
this is seldom the case, since a ruler can hardly 
attend regularly the sessions of the Senate. 
Dukes and Archdukes also have the right to a 
personal seat to the Senate. This seat cannot 
be traded nor can they choose replacements 
for the seat. It is nominal and tied to the 
dukedom. 

Sixty-seven Senators are elected in the 
dominions and imperial territories. Elections 
are held every four-to-six years. 



An Exaiviple of Local Rule 

As we have seen, politics in Thyatis are 
quite complicated, with many overlapping 
functions. 

Let us look at what happens in a typical 
Thyatian town, like Bridleton in Kerendas. 

The elected Rector of Bridleton has 
employed 10 guards and one officer to 
keep the peace and act as local police. If 
the Mayor needs more help because the 
town surroundings have been threatened 
by brigands or by a dangerous monster, 
he can call upon Duke Maldinius to send 
his dominion guards, or he can call upon 
the Quaestor of Kerendas. The Quaestor 
might go to Bridleton himself, or just send 
some of his soldiers from the Kerendan 
Cohort of the Imperial Legions. 

If the Mayor does not have enough money 
to restore a damaged road, he can ask for 
more from the Duke. If the Duke refuses, 
the Mayor can call one of the elected 
Duumvir Aedilicii of Kerendas for help. If 
the Duumvir asks him for a bribe, the 
Mayor can travel to the capital and 
denounce the corrupt officer to the two 
Senatorial Aediles, who might ask in turn 
the Quaestor of Kerendas to investigate 
the matter and, if they think it is necessary, 
the Praetor of Kerendas to judge the man 
- or the Aediles might just refuse the 
Mayor's accusations and send him back. If 
the Mayor or the Duumvir is unsatisfied 
with the outcome, he or she might extend 
a plea to a Tribunus, hoping that he or she 
will overrule the judgment and nullify it. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




accius 

Actius is a small, unproductive island south of 
Hattias, whose main feature is the lively and 
prosperous community of Actius (pop. 8,000) 
and its surrounding farms and fishing villages. 
Actius is a major shipbuilding concern, a rich 
fish-market and a provisioning center for some 
sea-trade around Cape Hattias. 




Population: 10,000 (90% humans, 10% 
sea-elves) 

Dominion ruler: Count Geraldan 
Actavius 

Senators: 

Count Geraldan Actavius (ruler 
representative), Gens Sergia. 

Terentius Thalassonion (first elected), 
Populares. 

Publios Kelophoriosa (second elected), 
Populares; Aedilis. 



a This character was first introduced in DDA1 Arena of 
Thyatis. 



Count Geraldan Actavius (born 947, F15, N) 
is a descendant of Sir Actius, the founder of 
the city that bears his name and of its island 
dominion. He's an aging warrior who was a 
fighter in the Thyatian Navy for over 20 years, 
and resigned his commission a decade ago to 



rule Actius when his father Rupert was lost 
at sea. Geraldan is a plump man with greying 
black hair and beard, brown eyes, a broad, 
merry face with scars on both cheeks from 
an early duel, and is too-fond of heavy, rich 
jewelry, although he prefers to dress in 
simple clothes. Geraldan is a moderate man 
who believes in tradition but loves to think 
of Thyatis as a land of opportunities for 
citizens and foreigners alike, so he has found 
it comfortable to fill his father's old niche 
among the Sergii. 

His wife Antonia 2 (born 956, T3) is a 
common-looking woman with a homely face 
that hides her shrewd eyes. They have two 
sons and two daughters between five and 
twenty years old, the oldest one being his 
heir Heraclius (born 980). 

The Actavii also hold a noble family seat (see 
also below), and Geraldan's uncle, Rutiliano 
(born 937, F7, N), is currently the family 
senatorial representative. Rutiliano is the 
younger brother of Rupert Actavius, but, 
unlike his father, brother and nephew, 
Rutiliano served in the infantry legions of 
Thyatis. The top position of his career has 
been the role as Lieutenant General of the 
Hinterlands during the planning stage and 
beginning of the invasion (AC 988), before 
he retired from the Army three years ago. 

Actius is a major region of Populares support, 
with a very liberal view on politics. Senator 
Terentius Thalassonion (born 954, T16, 
CG) is a former pirate who harassed 
Alphatian, Thyatian and Minrothaddan slave 
ships and military ships in his younger years 
under the name of 'Blue Dog'. Although 

2 

In the Almanacs, his wife is given as Dalia Salieri. 
Although not directly specified in canon, it can be assumed 
that Dalia and Geraldan marry sometimes during the Wrath 
of the Immortals War (1004-1009 AC). 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CiiyatiaN SeNatons 




suspected of many pirate activities, last but 
not least several renegade attacks on troop 
ships directed to the 'imperialist' conquest of 
the Hinterlands, Terentius was never 
conclusively linked to to the Blue Dog. His 
fame won him the respect of his fellow 
islanders, and he used it, and his riches, to 
enter the Senate a few years ago at the outrage 
of most noblemen and moderate -to- 
conservative politicians of Thyatis. The roguish 
outlook of this 45-years old pirate, with 
flamboyant pirate costumes and his mocking, 
sarcastic speeches at the Senate and in public 
forums, have made him a controversial and 
renowned figure even in the City of Thyatis. 

His elected colleague is Publios Kelophoiios 

(born 959, F5, NG), a prominent yet 
surprisingly virtuous senator. A fervent 
Popularis, Publios is renowned for his virtue 
and is an outspoken champion of the most 
progressive Populares. He has gained the love 
of his friends and supporters and the respect 
of adversaries, although the most conservative 
and aristocratic Senators loathe him because 
of his humble origins - his father was a poor 
fisherman who didn't own a boat and died 
while he was still young, and Publios grew 
from fisherman to sailor to boat captain before 
entering politics. He takes his position as 
Aedilis very seriously, something that puts him 
often at odds with his colleague Aedilis, Maria 
Evergetes, whom he neither trusts nor likes, 
suspecting her of using her position for 
personal ends. 



BIAZZAN 

A low, rich valley surrounded by steep hills 
in the shadow of the looming Altan Tepes 
mountains, Biazzan is a sheltered, quiet 
region, whose main feature is the rich city of 
Biazzan (pop. 12,500), which takes its name 
from its founder, the Alasiyan Selim ben 
Hassan. The city is one of the centers of trade 
between Ylaruam and Thyatis and the seat of 
one of the main universities of the Known 
World; about of the population consists of 
students and another fifth of university 
teachers, researchers and employees. The 
Baronial population is almost evenly split 
between Alasiyans and Thyatians. Its northern 
pass into Ylaruam is guarded by Fort Nicos 
(pop. 300), whose commander does not 
answer to the Baron but only to the Consules. 




Population: 30,000 

Dominion ruler: Baron Babrak Biazzan 
Senators: 

Baron Babrak Biazzan (ruler 
representative), Gens Aemilia 

Tanja Bendaoud (elected), Populares. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Babrak Biazzan (born 962, F12, LG) has been 
the ruler of Biazzan since AC 996, and is his 
own representant at the Senate, continuing to 
hold the seat that had been his before as the 
representative of his father. He is a man of 
Thyatian upbringing with a love of Alasiyan 
trappings and furnishings. 

He is married to Gallia (born 967, T (Rake) 5, 
LG), and they have a son, Himerius (born 
993), and a daughter, Maisha (born 995). 

Babrak has two younger sisters, Malika (born 
981, F3, LG), who is studying to become a 
military officer, and Aisha (born 985, Tl, LG), 
betrothed to Ahmed El Nicoui (born 983, Fl, 
LG), the son of a wealthy Biazzan nobleman, 
Omar El Nicoui (born 950, Fl, LG). 

Senator Tanja 
Bendaoud (born 
969, NW, NG) is the 
elected 
representative for 
the Barony. A sly 
Populares into her 
second term, she is 
especially concerned 
with educational and 
trade issues in the Senate, something that plays 
well with her own countrymen. One of the 
slogans behind her electoral program is "to 
show Tel-Akbirans that "we are more advanced 
than them". She has playfully played with the 
stereotypes of Biazzan Alasiyans against Tel- 
Akbiran Alasiyans, and she is seen as a positive 
political figure by the enlightened males and 
most females even in Tel Akbir. She is in very 
good relationship with Babrak Biazzan and 
with the Buhrohur senators (Thrain Kalskirt 
and Dwalur Swarkres, see below). She is 
married to Ahmed Azad (born 960, NM, N) a 
professor of History at the University, and they 




have a son, Kareem (born 995) and a 
daughter, Maria (born 999). 

BUHROHUR 

The main seat of Thyatian dwarves, Buhrohur 
is a rocky, mountainous territory settled 
almost only by dwarf colonists from 
Rockhome. Non-resident dwarves have no 
right to travel through Buhrohur. Its capital, 
Makrast (pop. 3,000), lies at the foot of a huge 
mountain with a sheared-off western face 
(thus the name for the town, i.e. "broken 
mountain" in dwarven). Only about 20% of 
Makrast is above-ground. 



Population: 15,000 

Dominion ruler: Gilla Blyskarats 

Senators: 

Thrain Kalskirt (ruler representative). 
Gens Aemilia. 

Dwalur Swarkres (elected), Populares; 
Quaestor. 



Buhrohur is ruled by Gilla Blyskarats, (born 
950, Cll of Kagyar, LG) member of a family 
that belongs to the Farkres Clan of Makrast. 
The baroness, a cleric of Kagyar, new-come 
to rule and still unmarried, was well-trained 
for her role by her father, the old baron. She 
intends to keep the gold-mining moving, the 
city safe, the baronial borders secure, and 
perhaps to do a little adventuring under an 
assumed name. . . 

This is also why she has chosen Thrain 
Kalskirt (born 870, F6, LG) an experienced 
dwarven diplomat, as her representative in 
the capital: she doesn't intend to spend her 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CiiyatiaN SeNatons 




sparse free time discussing senatorial laws. 
Even though Thrain is (relatively) young for a 
diplomat, he has spent several years 
adventuring in Thyatis and Rockhome before 
turning to politics, acting as a minor diplomat 
in matters involving dwarves. He has revealed 
himself to be a good politician, and has 
succeeded more than once for the benefit of 
Buhrohur before being chosen for this role 
immediately after the death of the old baron, 
who had preferred to be his own 
representative instead. 

His companion in the Senate is Dwalur 
Swarkres (born 838, F9, LG) a middle-aged, 
gruff, stubborn and stern dwarf with a grim 
view on life and on humans. He doesn't trust 
humans, as his parents were refugees who 
moved to Buhrohur after the Year of the 
Plague in Glantri, and he says that even in 
Thyatis he has "seen more human politics and 
betrayals than any dwarf would care to see in 
a dwarven lifetime". After many years of 
adventuring and fighting, Dwalur retired and 
started a political career first as a 
representative from his village at clan meetings 
and then rose up to clan councils and then to 
the Senate, where he has been elected for the 
past 30 years ("dwarves don't like to change 
an old cogwheel if it works well, we all know 
it"). When not in Thyatis, Dwalur spends his 
time in the small village of Klystar, or travelling 
in the north-west in his position as Quaestor 
for Vyalia, Biazzan and Buhrohur. Dwalur is 
unmarried and is a homosexual. His partner 
died a few years after a long disease, and he 
has silently mourned him since. All his friends 
and relatives and most all the dwarves of his 
village know it, but he prefers to keep this 
publicly undisclosed. His fellow dwarves are 
not likely to talk about it. 



CAERDWICCA 




This barony on the southern part of the Isle 
of Dawn has been settled for many centuries 
by pirates and fishermen of Dunael stock. 
About 750 live in Caerdwick Village, the other 
250 live in McRhomaag Castle. The 
McRhomaags sponsor pirates, sailors and 
explorers both on sea and into the Great 
Escarpment. 



Population: 1,000 

Dominion ruler: Baron Uthgaard 
McRhomaag 

Senators: 

Brandan McStewart (ruler 
representative), Populares. 

Gawain McLeod (elected), Populares. 



Uthgaard McRhomaag (born 960, F15, CN) 
is the ruler of Caerdwicca, and is very popular 
with his subjects. Styling himself a "thane" 
instead of "baron" (to emphasize the fact that 
he descends from Dunael and Northmen 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




raiders), this red-haired and red-bearded, 
stocky fighter is a free-willed pirate with a 
variable mood and impetuous personality who 
prefers to wear great tartan kilts and keeps a 
carefully constructed shaggy, wild-eyed look. 
Uthgaard is unmarried, but has several 
offsprings from fishermen's and pirates' 
daughters (and wives!). He is very kind 
towards his natural children ~ many of them 
have lived with him at one time or another. 
One of them, Alastair Scott (born 978, F4), 
is a Navy soldier in Actius; Uthgaard is 
following him closely to see whether he might 
make a good heir. Another daughter, Gael 
Ferguson (born 990, NW, NG) was brought 
to the Castle a couple of years ago with her 
mother Fearchara Ferguson (born 972, NW, 
CG) when Uthgaard 's niece Eleanor came to 
live with him (see below). Uthgaard is very 
fond of Fearchara but in no way considers her 
to be his wife. Fearchara is determined to make 
the 'stubborn old fool' change his ways. Good 
luck to her! 

Uthgaard's cousin from his mother's side is 
Brandan McStewart (born 970, F7, CG), who 
is also his Senator in Thyatis. He was 
appointed there after his wife Lysa left him to 
run away with his roguish younger brother 
Corum, and both died at sea shortly after. . . or 
at least they were never heard since. Brandan's 
father, Ian McStewart (born 942, F9, CN), an 
ageing pirate, has accompanied him to the 
capital, while his mother Bridget Anderson 
(born 950, NW, LN) separated from Ian several 
years ago and lives with her own family in 
Newkirk. Brandan is the younger brother of 
Uthgaard's mother Diulanna (born 940, NW, 
NG), who despairs of her son's 'liberal' ways 
with women, loves all her grandchildren even 
though Uthgaard makes her mad, and is 
watching closely Fearchara's attempts to woo 
him. She has not decided whether to throw 



her lot in with the woman, but is increasingly 
warming up to her and her 'cause'. 
Diulanna's husband, Uthgaard's father 
Willard (931-989), died about ten years ago 
during a raid. 

Uthgaard's youngest uncle Colin (born 952, 
R9, NG) married Shylla (born 866, T4/W9, 
CG), an Isle of Dawn elf whom he met while 
adventuring. Uthgaard jokingly mocks Colin 
since he's a "wood man" and not a pirate like 
most of their family. Colin was for some time 
senator of the McRhomaag aristocratic family 
seat, but Colin and Uthgaard passed the seat 
to Colin and Shylla' s daughter Iliana (born 
979, Fl/Tl, NG) a few months ago, as soon 
as she turned 21. Colin and Shylla travel a 
lot, but they have a big stone house with a 
river mill a few miles north of Caerdwicca 
Village in which they like to spend the mild 
summers of the region fishing and hunting. 

Eleanor (born 989, Tl, N), Brandan and 
Lysa's daughter, is a beautiful girl of 11, who 
talks very little but is very intelligent and 
perceptive. She lived with her father until a 
couple of years ago, but as she is growing she 
looks more and more like her mother and 
Brandan felt it was too hard to keep her with 
him, so he sent her away to Caerdwicca. She 
has taken a loving to the land, which she feels 
is like a fairytale land of magic and mystery 
and of which her father liked to talk and tell 
stories about. He also told her of the many 
feats of her uncle Uthgaard, whom she had 
seen very seldomly before, and she has grown 
exceedingly fond of him too. She is almost 
always seen in the company of her second- 
cousin and best friend Gael. The two girls are 
very different, from their looks (blonde 
haired and blue-eyed Eleanor, red-headed, 
freckled, green-eyed Gael; thin Eleanor, short 
Gael) to their personality (Eleanor is dreamy 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




and would like to become an expert forester 
like her aunt Shylla, while Gael would like to 
become a pirate like her father) but both are 
beautiful and promising girls of which 
Uthgaard is incredibly proud. 

The elected Senator of Caerdwicca is Gawain 
McLeod (born 974, F3, N). A young and naive 
Caerdwiccan, he had little difficulty in being 
elected, being the only candidate. 
Caerdwiccans definitely think it enough to 
have the McRhomaag Clan representative, and 
have always trouble finding an elected Senator, 
who more often than not remains in the 
dominion for most of his or her term. Gawain 
saw this opportunity more as the way to reach 
Thyatis and do some adventuring on the 
distant Known World, for which he's had a 
long fascination for years, having become 
bored with the pirate's life along the southern 
Isle of Dawn. Since he came to Thyatis, he's 
been duped by a con-man, robbed by a whore 
and mistreated by a Storm Soldiers patrol. 
Finding little help in the amiable but brooding 
Brandan McStewart, he has become friends 
with Senator Cosmatos from Terentias, and 
has turned for help to the more sympathetic 
Abeeku Dwair and Populares-oriented Dawn 
Islanders. 

FURMENQLAIVE 

Another Dunael dominion on the southern tip 
of the Isle of Dawn, Furmenglaive consists 
mostly of moors and rolling hills, with small 
ponds dotting the countryside, where sheep 
and goats are the most common sight. Many 
unpleasant creatures can be found in 
Furmenglaive due to the presence of the 
Thothian Plateau, which is a veritable nest of 
monsters, kept at bay by the willful Counts 
and the Castle's garrison. 




Population: 750 

Dominion ruler: Count Phileus 
Furmenglaive 

Senators: 

Eliana Furmenglaive (ruler 
representative), Gens Sergia 

Peter Dunbar (first elected), Populares 

Aynsley Erskine (second elected), Gens 
Sergia; Quaestor of the Southern Isle of 
Dawn. 



Count Phileus Furmenglaive (born 938, 
F23, LG) descends from the original builder 
of the Castle and establisher of the dominion, 
Magnus Furmenglaive. Phileus and his wife 
Lyra (born 939, C23 (of Protius), LG) are 
cursed with a powerful, unknown strain of 
lycanthropy that, as a side-effect, keeps their 
age stuck at 30 - the age at which they caught 
it adventuring. Phileus is his noble family's 
appointed Senator (see below), but hasn't 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CiiyatiaN SeNatons 




been seen in the Senate for several years. The 
population of Furmenglaive is well-aware of 
their beloved rulers' lot, and go to great 
lengths in order to protect them. 

Their appointed representative at the Senate 
is their only daughter Eliana (born 969, C9, 
of Aesculapius/Chardastes, LG), who was born 
shortly after her mother contracted the illness 
from her father. However, up to now, it 
doesn't seem she suffered any effect from it. 
She is aware of the curse struck upon her 
parents and would do anything to lift it, but 
even though she studied as a priest of the 
Immortal patron of healing, she has still not 
been able to do so. She knows her parents 
sent her away to shelter her from their grief, 
something that has made her even more 
worried for them. She spends a lot of time 
adventuring and researching and is one of the 
least seen senators in the Senate. 

One of Furmenglaive's main characters is Ion 
Andriscon (born 964, Bard 3 12, NG), an 
exceptional bard adventurer and a long time 
friend and counselor of Count Phileus. Ion 
travelled all over the Isle of Dawn and in the 
Alphatian regions, and often acts as a spy in 
Alphatia, given his extraordinary ability with 
languages and disguises. 

For such a small region, there is an incredibly 
high number of representatives at the Senate, 
something that a lot of Barons and Counts 
around the country definitely resent - notably 
the Count of Hattias and the Gens Zendrolian, 
since the Furmenglaives and their subjects are 
notorious moderates and pacifists. 

The two elected senators, Peter Dunbar (born 
941, F6, NG) and Aynsley Erskine (born 944, 
F7, LN) are old family friends. Peter Dunbar 

The Bard character class for Classic D&D is found in 
Dragon Magazine, Issue 177. 



spends his time in the Senate acting like the 
de-facto representatives of the Counts. He is 
heavily involved in diplomatic missions 
especially in regard to Isle of Dawn/Alphatian 
matters. Aynsley Erskine is the energetic 
Quaestor of the southern Isle of Dawn. 

HALATHIUS 

The easternmost region of hills in mainland 
Thyatis, Halathius is a rocky territory famed 
for its productive mines, which yield gold, 
minerals and other metals in abundance, 
supplying Thyatis with the majority of its iron 
ore. The country is dotted with mining 
villages and bands of brigands, with caravans 
crossing it to and from. 

Its capital Goldleaf 4 (pop. 4,000) is the center 
of government and gold-crafts trade. 
Hundreds of its citizens are goldsmith, 
weaponsmiths, armorers, or trade in these 
goods. 



Population: 20,000 

Dominion ruler: Countess Sabrina 
Andreana. 

Senators: 

Marcianus Andreana (ruler 
representative), Philosophers. 

Wayne Morrison, Populares (first elected) 

Ascanio De Leonibus, Gens Zendrolian 
(second elected); Quaestor of Halathius 
and Kerendas. 



Halathius is a Populares steadfast, however 
Halathians believe in the values of old Thyatis 
and are wary of the liberals of Biazzan and 

4 Bractea in Classic Thyatian. 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Buhrohur or the decadent people of the 
Empire's capital. Their Popular standing is 
more the result of distrust of the central 
government, although the Emperor is liked 
well enough. Halathians are not like Hattians, 
however - on the other hand, they see Thyatis 
as a "land of opportunities" more than most 
other people in the Empire, since Halathius 
itself is a land of opportunities to which many 
of them or their parents or ancestors were 
drawn to by the mines and riches of the land. 

Halathius is ruled by Countess Sabrina 
Andreana (born 974, F9, N), a beautiful young 
woman of tanned complexion and hazel eyes, 
married to Alex (born 974, F9, N), a sharp and 
taciturn military officer, overshadowed by the 
strong personality of his wife. After spending 
most of her youth in the Isle of Dawn legions, 
Sabrina recently became Countess after the 
death in sickbed of her father Demetrion 
(948+999). Demetrion is also survived by his 
wife Letitia (born 952, NW) and his brother 
Marcianus (born 950, F4, NG), who remains 
the Halathius dominion senator after having 
served many years in service of his older 
brother. Marcianus is a bald, gaunt man with 
deep green eyes, a warm smile and a 
sympathetic voice, and a great friend to the 
Pearl Islander nobles and senators. 

Wayne Morrison (born 947, F18, LN) is the 
stern Populares Senator from Halathius. An 
enduring Halathian icon, he epitomizes 
rugged masculinity and is famous for his 
demeanor, including his distinctive calm voice, 
walk, and height. Morrison was born in 
Westrourke but his family relocated to the 
Goldleaf area when he was four years old. His 
impressive physical build and courage made 
him leave the mining work to become a 
caravan guard first, and then a bounty hunter 
and adventurer. He has held the position of 



mayor in many small towns in Halathius, 
generally moving from one brigand-harassed 
town to another. Morrison's fame reached 
quickly the ear of Count Demetrius Andreana, 
who has since been a close friend and 
employed him as a personal bodyguard 
during some dangerous trips and missions 
in the past. After retiring at 50, he has been 
immediately elected at the Senate. Morrison 
embodies the Halathian spirit at the fullest 
in its mix of conservative and progressive 
values: as long as a person is true to the 
Empire, they are all alike, men, women, 
humans, demi-humans, ethnic Thyatians and 
non-Thyatians... But there is no place in 
Thyatis for the soft decadence of the liberals 
like Tanja Bendaoud or the venomous liars 
like Angelarian Canolocarius. Like the land 
he grew in, he is not a man of compromise - 
and this is liked by his countrymen. He has 
fathered five children out of three marriages, 
all to women of Alasiyan descent. His last 
daughter was born in 996. 

His colleague in the Senate is Sir Ascanio De 
Leonibus (born 971, Fll, CN) a Knight of 
Thyatis. Ascanio is a young adult man with 
little regard for human life and little interests 
beside women, gold and killing - not 
necessarily in this order. However, he is 
clever enough to stay on the good side of the 
law while doing his business. He saw the 
Senatorial title as a step to further his goals, 
although he is not sure himself of what his 
goals should be. After becoming Quaestor, 
he has harassed his colleagues (and bought 
the votes of some of them, especially among 
the Free Thinkers, Populares and Zendrolian) 
to get special powers as an Enforcer in a 
brigand-rigged region of northern Halathius, 
much to the resentment of local mayors and 
bounty-hunters. Senator Morrison is a bit too 
old and rigid to see the flaws of Ascanio 's 





224 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CiiyatiaN SeNatons 




character, though, and likes him well enough. 
Ascanio knows he risks stepping on the toes 
of his fellow countrymen and is trying hard to 
reconcile brigand-hunting with his own 
interests and those of the villagers. He's facing 
a hard task and risks to lose his senatorial seat 
at the next elections. 

HAIXIAS 

The County of Hattias is an island dominion, 
and the largest dominion of Mainland Thyatis. 
Mostly hill-country with a few productive 
lowlands, the island is divided in a northern 
part with greener hills, vineyards and sheep 
pastures, central hills dedicated to goat- 
herding, and a southern end consisting of 
fishing villages (and some pirate coves). 
Hattias is renowned because of its xenophobic- 
bordering-to-racist views on non-Thyatians. 
The capital Hattias (pop. 30,000) is a sprawling 
city and port in the north, whose defining 
feature is the lack of walls, torn down centuries 
ago after a Hattian uprising. 




Population: 350,000 

Dominion ruler: Count Heinrich 
Oesterhaus 

Senators: 

Tobias von Richter (ruler representative), 
Pure Ones 

Mathias Rudat, Pure Ones (first elected) 

Hugin Kahlweifi, Free Thinkers (second 
elected); Tribunus. 



The most powerful man in Hattias is Count 
Heinrich Oesterhaus (apparent age 45, C24 
(Avatar of Thanatos), CE), ruler of the 
dominion and leader of the Storm Soldiers. 
But the real Heinrich died many years ago at 
the hand of the Immortal Thanatos, who took 
his guise and identity. Oesterhaus, a tall and 
slender man, with black hair and saturnine 
beard, is raising his son Hansel and his 
daughter Danielle in his philosophy of 
hatred. 

Oesterhaus/Thanatos has chosen as his 
representative Tobias von Richter (born 
931, Cll (of Thanatos), CE), an old Storm 
Soldier, secretly a cleric of Thanatos himself. 
Tobias, an old gaunt man with little hair and 
a short, grey mustache, lives permanently in 
Thyatis, pretending that the rigors of travel 
between Hattias and Thyatis would be too 
strenuous in his old age. In fact he is 30 years 
younger than what he feigns, thanks to the 
use of potions of longevity. His apprentice 
in the Senate, who is unaware of his ties to 
Thanatos, is a young lawyer named Alfred 
Voralberg (born 978, F3, LE). 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 





The Oesterhaus 
also have a seat 
reserved as an 
ancient 
aristocratic family 
(see also below). 
Currently, Horst 
Oesterhaus (born 
956, Fll, TN), 
cousin of 
Heinrich, is 
holding the seat, 
although Danielle 
will become the 
family Senator as 
soon as she turns 21. Horst is worried by the 
direction Heinrich has given to the Storm 
Soldiers. Horst has always been a trustworthy 
and stern Hattian, but his view on Storm 
Soldiers and Hattian superiority is one built 
on virtue and honour, while in the last ten 
years it has become more arrogance, violence, 
and abuse, something he doesn't like at all. 
The change in his cousin's character has been 
a slow one, but now, when he looks around 
himself and Heinrich, he sees mostly young 
upstarts filled with hate, or ageing racists, and 
he is worried that this might put Hattians too 
much in conflict with the rest of the Empire, 
something that will not benefit his beloved 
land. 

Mathias Rudat (born 963, F9, LE) is one of 
the leaders of the Storm Soldiers and a vocal 
and outspoken xenophobe. While Tobias plays 
inside the rules and tries to rationalize the 
Hattian viewpoint on things, Rudat, a skilled 
fighter and military officer who served many 
years in the Army, is much more antagonistic. 
Mathias was born a poor man and is blinded 
by his hatred of foreigners and the hate for the 
other races of the Empire who have cast down 
the proud Hattians, by demoting the once 



powerful region to County status, while the 
Isle of Dawn dominions have more Senators 
than inhabitants and upstarts like Triella 
Tien-Tang become Duke of a family resort. 
He isn't totally wrong, and this truth is quite 
unpalatable to many of his opponents like 
the Philosophers. 

The Free Thinker Hugin KahlweiiS (born 
968, C7 (of Odin), NG) is the son of Franz 
KahlweiR, a Hattian Priest of Odin, and has 
recently exploited his popularity as a battle 
priest to win his seat in the Senate in the last 
elections; his humanity and righteousness 
has easily won him a position as Tribunus. 
Hugin has immediately started working first 
with his fellow Mathias Rudat, whom he 
respects as a man-at-arms although he feels 
he is a bitter man, weighed down by the 
plight of the Hattians for a more influential 
role in the Empire. Hugin is trying to build a 
base in the Senate for promoting Count 
Heinrich to Dukedom, in the hope that this 
will make his countrymen relent a little from 
their attitude. The Count and his 
representatives are leaving him free rein to 
do so, and Hugin is trying to find followers 
in the most unlikely places, for instance 
among the Philosophers, who think of him 
as a well-meaning but delusional fellow. 
Horst Oesterhaus and Hugin have been seen 
increasingly together in the City, and 
Heinrich is not happy about that, although 
he pretends not to have noticed. 

HINTERLANDS 

The Thyatian Hinterlands are the Empire's 
outpost on Davania. It is an Army-ruled 
protectorate, for the time being, with 
Commander General Leila ben Nadir, sister 
of Duke Tarik of Tel Akbir, as its highest 
ruling officer. 





226 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




Population: more than 20,000 

Protectorate ruler: Commander General 
Leila ben Nadir 

Senator: Gneus Maccius, Gens 
Zendrolian, Quaestor of Ochalea. 



Gneus Maccius (born 966, F5, NE), a military 
officer, became Senator after rigged elections 
in the Hinterlands: several local candidates 
were not allowed to run because of their ties 
with rebel clans, and the real winner was one 
of the locals who was allowed to run - but he 
never knew it. Maccius was asked to run by 
the military in the Hinterlands, and although 
general Leila would never have condoned the 
rigging, other officials in her service arranged 
for it to happen. Maccius is a fierce imperialist 
who wants to use the aggressive stance of the 
Empire to build a career rich in titles and gold. 
Becoming Senator, and Quaestor of Ochalea, 
is just a way to further his own goals. 

IMPERIAL TERRITORIES 

The Imperial Territories are the non-dominion 
areas of Mainland Thyatis. Local communities 
rule themselves through Rectores or town 
councils, and the Praetor of Mainland Thyatis 
is the highest governmental officer with direct 
responsibility over the area. Although the 
Imperial Territories are considered free areas 
for future dominions to rise, this seldom 
happens in practice: locals strongly oppose 
any possibility of having their lands be "eaten 
up" by upstart nobles or imperial lickspittles. 
They tend to be fierce in their independence, 
and mistrust the central government. 

The Imperial Territories elect two Senators, 
one from the western and one from the eastern 



Population: between 20,000 and 30,000 

Ruler: the highest governmental officer 
in the area is Duccio Senese, Praetor of 
Mainland Thyatis, though not technically 
its ruler 

Senators: 

Aelius Varro (Eastern Territories elected), 
Populares, Tribunus. 

Tiberius Mancino (Western Territories 
elected), Populares. 



areas. The Eastern one is Aelius Varro (born 
962, F19, CN). To choose someone like Varro 
for their senatorial representative just goes 
to show how stern and ferocious the settlers 
of these lands are. Varro is rumoured to have, 
as a youth, singlehandedly killed a Knight of 
Thyatis who was planning to found a new 
Barony in the region - and his body guards. 
He was a miner and bounty-hunter in 
Halathius, many say to escape an official 
investigation on the case, before returning 
home, where he has become the mayor of his 
town - and been its de-facto overlord for many 
years. Varro is a mountain of a man, with a 
short, trimmed beard, a cleanshaven head 
and small, red-brown eyes. He would like to 
be promoted to Baronial title, but since he is 
perceived as a fighter against this possibility, 
and has been elected with the mandate to 
prevent something like that to happen, he is 
in pains as to how to achieve his goal. 

His colleague from the Western Territories is 
Tiberius Mancino (born 969, T10, NE), an 
amiable man who shares the same goals of 
Varro and is definitely in awe of his older pal. 
Behind his shy and polite manners, Mancino 
hides an egoistic nature. He was a brigand 
and outlaw for several years, before selling 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




out his posse to the law, covering up for his 
crimes and ending his roguish career with a 
lot of money. After that, he's been a respected 
farmer, land-owner and family man in town. 
His last move has been to get elected to the 
Senatorial post. He is quite happy with how 
things are going in life and he is not ambitious, 
but he is moved almost only by personal 
interest. He's determined to play his role well 
and to benefit the most of it for himself and 
his family - he loves his wife Servia (born 973, 
NW, NG) and his small daughter Sandra and 
son Gavius. 

KANTRIUM 

Kantrium is one of the smallest and oldest 
duchies in the Empire, consisting of a green 
and fertile strip of farmland around the sea, 
which holds 90% of the Duchy's population 
and hosts the capital city of Kantridae (pop. 
10,000), and a northern countryside which 
grows arid toward the hills and Ylaruam. Fish 
and grain are plenty in Kantrium, and 
Kantridae is a placid (some would say 
'declining') city of fishermen and farmers, with 



Population: 100,000 

Dominion ruler: Duke Leonidas Ruggiero. 
Senators: 

Duke Leonidas Ruggiero, Populares; 
Quaestor. 

Duchess Livia Ruggiero (ruler 
representative), Populares. 

Seline Valleides, Populares (first elected) 

Minucius Stabilis, Populares (second 
elected), Tribunus. 

Tiberius Traianus, Republicans (third 
elected) 




an interesting 
political life. 

The Duke of 
Kantrium and 
Quaestor for 
Kantrium, Tel 
Akbir, Lucinius 
and Retebius is 
Leonidas 
Ruggiero (born 
966, F14, TN), a 
skilled fighter who 

proved his worth as an army commander on 
the Isle of Dawn before inheriting the seat 
from his father, killed by a troll while fighting 
brigands near the borders with Halathius. 
Leonidas, 25 at the time, went home as soon 
as he could be released from the Army, and 
started a ferocious fight against the outlaws 
of the area; after their defeat, he had all the 
surviving brigands hang the bodies of their 
dead comrades on the main road of Kantrium 
all the way to the capital - then he sold the 
survivors on the slave market and used the 
money to fund public work. Leonidas is a 
strong-willed man with very clear ideas; he 
is devoted to the Balance, and thinks that 
Balance is more important even than ideals 
like justice and truth: possible courses of 
actions have to be judged according to their 
ends, not to the letter of the law. In this he 
is very Thyatian-like, but his personal integrity 
can not be contested, and his ultimate goal 
is to contribute to the well-being of Kantrium 
and the efficiency and integrity of the Empire, 
something he thinks can only be achieved 
mainly by Balance - the Balance between 
Populares and Aristocrats, Senate and 
Emperor, Thyatis and Alphatia, Law and 
Chaos. He despises Thincol, who is a self- 
serving upstart that married to get to the 
throne; he doesn't like Eusebius and his 





228 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




religious obsessions; he hates the Storm 
Soldiers; he is contemptuous of his fellow 
aristocrats and senators who use their power 
for themselves; and he is bored to death by 
the preachy Philosophers and their cowardice. 
He's not an easy man to deal with, but he is 
loved in Kantrium and nobody can deny his 
personal magnetism and his political skills. 

His chosen representative at the Senate is his 
wife Livia MacGoraidh (born 970, M8, TN), 
a former adventuress of mixed 
Thyatian/Dunael descent that Leonidas met 
on the Isle of Dawn, and that resisted a long 
courtship. Their marital relationship has not 
been one of the most calm, as befits the 
stubborn Duke and the temperamental 
Duchess. The Duke and Duchess love each 
other in a passionate and intense way, and 
have two small sons, 4 and 2 years old 
respectively. One of their main advisors is 
Cratetes di Mallo (born 963, F2, NE), a former 
Army attendant of the Duke. Cratetes is a 
vengeful and bitter man who is not a positive 
influence on the rulers. 

Leonidas and Livia have a list of priorities to 
accomplish in the Senate: they want to keep 
a good balance between the Emperor and 
Senate, they want to raise Hattias to Duchy 
hoping to undermine the strength of the Storm 
Soldiers, and they want to fight the corruption 
they see in the Thyatian Army especially, and 
in their leaders. One of their political enemies, 
in this regard, is Senator Helenites 
Osteropolous. The Ruggieri like to think of 
themselves as the Populares' voice among the 
landed aristocracy. Kantrium is a Populares 
steadfast, probably the most left-wing region 
of Thyatis and the activity center of the 
Republican Party, which is mildly supported 
by the fierce Duke. 



Among the Populares elected Senators, one 
of the most important is Seline Valleides 
(born 966, Tl, CG), a Kantridae resident. 
Born in a small village of the north, Seline 
has spent several years as the right hand of 
another brilliant politician, Maria Marconi 
(born 946, NW, TN), who stepped down from 
the Senate a few years ago and switched sides 
with Seline - the younger woman was able to 
gain her mentor's seat two elections ago and 
is now assisted by the older woman in her 
work for the Populares in Thyatis city. Seline 
has recently divorced her husband, Paulus 
de Robertis (born 960, F3, TN), a skilled 
smith and armorer in Kantridae, and is raising 
their two children, Marco, aged 10, and 
Serena, aged 3. 

Another elected Senator, and friend of the 
ducal couple, is Minucius Stabilis (born 958, 
F3, NE). A friend of Leonidas 's father, 
Minucius is apparently a Populares Senator, 
but he is in fact a corrupt man who has spied 
on the couple on account of Senator 
Helenites Osteropolous for the last three 
years at least. Minucius is a nervous man who 
is always afraid of being caught and is secretly 
buying a villa on Mositius through an 
intermediary with the money he gets from 
Osteropolous. He is also a Tribunus, and 
Osteropolous expects from him that with his 
position he can help Osteropolous's agents 
that find themselves in legal troubles. 

Tiberius Traianus (born 969, F4, CG) is the 
Secretary of the Kantrium Chapter of the 
Republican Party and their most important 
representative in the Senate. An ex-Army 
fighter, Tiberius read "The Republic of 
Thyatis" while serving in the Hinterland 
invasion Legion, and was disgusted by the 
imperialist excesses he saw there. Since 
coming back to Kantridae, his hometown, 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



"CiiyatiaN SeNatons 




five years ago, he has become a schoolteacher 
and enrolled in the local chapter of the 
Republican Party, where he worked hard to 
increase the membership of the Party and get 
involved more in pragmatic city politics and 
less in empty philosophizing. In a city like 
Kantridae, he had the rare possibility of 
continuing his work without being harassed 
by aristocrat-paid thugs or Storm Soldiers. He 
was chosen as the Republican candidate at the 
last elections and has been elected as the third 
and last chosen Senator for Kantrium - the 
fourth elected Republican in Kantrium, and 
the third in a row - a major success for the 
Party. Tiberius is a moderate and a youngish 
optimist who sees what happens in Kantrium 
as the first stage of a peaceful revolution, and 
he is a bit at odds with the more relentless 
wings of the Party. He has not learnt to cope 
with the contradictions of his position, as he 
has found he has a liking for several aristocrats 
and rulers, like the Ruggieri (who are of a 
similar age), and the scholarly-minded and 
egalitarian Nuari senators. 

KENDACH 

Kendach is a County on the Isle of Dawn. 
Southeast of Kendach Town and the Fortress 
is the large Kendach Escarpment, claimed by 
the County. Thyatians, Dunael and Alphatians 
are all present in the city, with Thyatian being 
the main tongue used. 

Julia Kendasius (born 962, C17, of Halav, N) 
rules this dominion. An ambitious woman who 
wants Kendach to become the most powerful 
region on the Isle of Dawn, she would like to 
turn the County into a Grand-Duchy by 
absorbing Redstone and West Portage under 
her rule. To do so she has invested especially 
in military expenses and encouraged 
immigrants to boost the population. She is a 



Population: 5,000 + 

Dominion ruler: Countess Julia 
Kendasius 

Senators: 

Countess Julia Kendasius (ruler 
representative), GensAurelia 

Andrew Selkirk, (first elected), Populares 

Storm Sinclair, (second elected), Gens 
Zendrolian 



blond woman with brown eyes who likes to 
dress in white and uses symbols and her way 
of speech to impress upon others her fervent 
faith in Halav. 

Julia also acts as her own appointed Senator 
in Thyatis City, since she thinks the matter of 
her ambition is too delicate at this stage to 
leave in the hands of others, although this is 
quite time (and money) consuming. The 
Shadow Hand (and its members in the 
Senate, Maria Evergetes and Memmus 
Theophilos) is studying her to see if there 
could be some room for it to gain something 
from the situation - although it is wary not to 
tread on the feet of the powerful Westies (the 
West Portage thieves' guild). 

If the Shadow Hand is moving, West Portage 
is not standing still. The thieves' guild has a 
representative in Kendach and in the Senate, 
Andrew Selkirk (born 961, T12, TN). A 
ethnic Dunael, former acrobat thief who 
travelled all through the Isle of Dawn in his 
younger years, he has become one of the 
Westies Guildmasters and has been the ruler 
of the Guild's branch in Kendach. His main 
role in the Senate is to oppose Julia's 
expansion - and his bribes and expenses in 
Thyatis and Kendach to win away supporters 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"CftyatiaN SeNatons 




from the Countess have exceeded her own. In 
the meantime, he has grown fond of the 
pleasure of opposing prickly aristocrats, 
priests and senators. 

The retired Army officer Storm Sinclair (born 
948, F10, LN) seems to be the only Senator 
from Kendach that is sincerely interested in 
the city's administration. A former fighter and 
a Knight of Thyatis, Storm is stubborn but 
unimaginative. Undecided about the 
Countess's idea of turning Kendach into a 
Grand-Duchy, Sinclair tends to keep a low 
profile in the Senate and relies much on the 
help of his talkative, Alphatian-descended wife 
Sarmella (born 951, W4, CG). Sarmella, with 
the pen name of Mistress Rose, is the most 
popular romance novel author in Thyatis, 
something that makes Sinclair clearly 
uncomfortable. Luckily for him, the 
connection is not known. Storm and Sarmella 
have three children - Mark (born 975, F2, TN), 
an Army officer; Ethylianna (born 978, Wl, 
NG), an apprentice wizard; and Paul (born 
982, NM, NG), who plans to enroll at the 
University of Biazzan at the start of the fall 
semester to study ancient history. 

KERENDAS 

Kerendas is one of the most prominent 
dominions of Thyatis, the center for cavalry 
training and the source of the best horses in 
Mainland Thyatis. The Kerendans are horse- 
crazy - horse races, jousts, fairs and stock 
shows are wildly popular. Kerendas (100,000) 
is the second-largest city in Thyatis, with a 
good seaport, the famous West Reach school 
for officers of the Thyatian Cavalry. 

Duke Maldinius Kerendas (born 966, F18, 
CE), since 997 Consul of the Empire for the 
first time, has the reputation of being a great 
adventurer and warrior - which is true if victory 



Population: 600,000 

Dominion ruler: Duke Maldinius 
Kerendas. 

Senators: 

Duke Maldinius Kerendas, Gens Aemilia; 
Consul. 

Marco Faralli (ruler representative), Gens 
Aemilia. 

Duccio Senese, (first elected), Gens 
Aemilia; Praetor of Mainland Thyatis. 

Cornelios Albireus, (second elected), 
Gens Aemilia 

Valerianus Acrocuzritos, (third elected), 
Populares 



is the only thing that qualifies you for those 
roles. His elder brothers all died mysterious 
deaths, until Maldinius was the sole ducal 
heir. On his adventures, many of his 
companions died heroically - usually in 
sinking ships or burning buildings, shortly 
after the enemy was beaten and the treasure 
recovered. He's a backstabber, gossiper, and 
villain with a voice and manner as smooth as 
silk - and no coward (it's next to impossible 
to become an 18-th level fighter when you're 
a coward). Tall, handsome, with blond hair 
and beard and blue eyes, Maldinius is not 
married, but he is known to have fathered 
several bastards, none of whom has been 
nominated as his heir. His youngest (and only 
surviving) brother Malderius Kerendas 
(born 976, F9, TN) currently holds the 
aristocratic seat belonging to the Kerendas 
family (see below), and is his heir to the ducal 
seat. Duke Maldinius is one of the most 
important senators of Gens Aemilia, and he 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



"C^yatiaN SeNatons 




is utterly committed to his role as an Aemilii 
'top player'. 

Maldinius's representative in the Senate is 
Marco Faralli (born 958, NM, TN). Since 
Maldinius has little trust in others - and few 
friends -, he has taken to the habit of raising 
one of the previously elected senators to the 
seat shortly before the new elections. His 
choice is based on popular opinion - 
something that he discovers by calling for a 
public acclamation of his potential candidate 
in the central plaza of Kerendas. Marco, 
coming from a wealthy merchant family that 
owns one of the most appreciated running 
horse stables of the Empire, and a loyal Aemilii 
man, received the strongest applause in the 
plaza and thus received the seat, to his great 
personal satisfaction. He is a disciplined, 
dutiful but otherwise unremarkable Senator - 
exactly the type of man Maldinius likes to have 
at his side. 



The popularity of the Kerendas family as 
excellent rulers and senatorial champions 
have always made the Duchy a stronghold of 
Gens Aemilia and of the moderate senatorial 
right. Other important Senators of the Gens, 
like Tiberius Paulus, were born and raised in 
Kerendas. Maldinius and Tiberius, with their 
personal magnetism and skills, have further 
increased the reputation of the Aemilii in the 
eyes of their fellow countrymen. However, 
Maldinius is a lone wolf who prefers to act 
through his power and prestige as a Duke 
and through ducal officials, and leaves to 
Tiberius the role of dealing and finding 
trustworthy candidates for the Senate, whom 
then Maldinius discreetly (and, if need may 
be, with illegal pressures and means) 
supports. Two of the three Senators elected 
in 997 belong to the Aemilii faction and are 
Tiberius' men. 





"CiiyatiaN SeNatons 




The first of them is Duccio Senese (born 955, 
NM, LN), a three-times Quaestor and famed 
judge coming from a minor branch of the 
Aemilius family, who has held a Senatorial seat 
on and off for the past twenty years. Kerendas 
was far from the Spike Assault and Senator 
Senese is one of the most vocal in minimizing 
the positive role of Emperor Thincol in the 
defense of the city, something that the imperial 
family finds infuriating. Senese is the new 
Praetor of Mainland Thyatis. 

Cornelios Albireus (born 957, TlO/WereratlO, 
NE) is a merchant who left Thyatis about twenty 
years ago to inherit his uncle's stake in a 
Kerendan housestable. He has since greatly 
increased the family riches, and is a renowned, 
wealthy and popular citizen, and a minor 
Senator of Gens Aemilia, content to sit through 
his second term. However, truth is that 
Cornelios is a wererat from the sewers of Thyatis 
City, who killed the true Cornelios and his uncle 
and is posing as his heir. 

Valerianus Acrocuzritos (born 948, NM, CN) 
is the adopted son of a childless, middle class 
Kerendan family. Valerianus started his political 
career about ten years ago, by denouncing that 
not everything went well in the optimistic, rich 



Kerendas. He was close to the plight of 
outcasts and poor people, and managed to get 
into the Senate two elections ago. Alas, 
immediately after that, Maldinius Kerendas 
and the Aemilii decided to buy him up. If he 
had not complied, they would probably have 
killed him. Acrocuzritos's denounces became 
more vague and populistic - in a single word, 
empty. He became popular as a denouncer of 
corruption as a moral problem of the Empire, 
but has not really done anything practical to 
eradicate it in the Senate, much less in 
Kerendas. Valerianus has two sons from his 
wife Amatrice, the older, serious Vanadios 
(born 971, T(Rake) 3, TN), who works as a 
dock officer at the port of Kerendas; and the 
younger, reckless Valentine (born 974, 
T(Rake) 7, NE), who moved to Thyatis to study 
but turned low-life in his early twenties, 
became estranged from his parents, and was 
saved from financial ruin by Helenites 
Osteropolous. His hollow rants have managed 
to get him the seat in 997 too, but this time he 
was very close to lose the seat to Gracula 
Matteotti (born 973, T3, NG), a syndicalist of 
Populares sympathies from the Guild of 
Craftsmen of Southern Kerendas (based in 
Badivillae) . 



RefeueNces 

Aaron Allston. "Dawn of the Emperors: Thyatis and Alphatia", TSR, 1989 

John Nephew. DDA2 "Legions of Thyatis", TSR, 1990 

John Nephew. DDA1 "Arena of Thyatis", TSR, 1990 

Giulio Caroletti & James Ruhland. "A History of Thyatian Literature ", 
in Tome ofMystara, Issue 3 

James Ruhland. "Thyatian Variant Government" 

Giampaolo Agosta. "Gazetteer of Ochalea" 

Giulio Caroletti and Giampaolo Agosta. "The Thyatian Senate" 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Timc's ^navels 







Keep tI>GM 
MoviNQ. t^e 
opeN Mansti is 
OaNqeRous, 




ri7ts will be ipc last liMc 
you iNteufCRe tjUMaN... 





MYSTARA 

g sbc tec 

APt FROM MOGRETH' PART J 





234 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Antwonk Sounces aNt) CneOits 




ARTWORK SOURCES AND CREDITS 

Front On the shores of the Island of Dread 

Covers Original work by I. Calvin and used by permission of the artist 

Page 10 Taymoran Civil War 

Artist's depiction of the Siege of Sparta, 272 BC by Jean-Baptiste Source 
Topino-Lebrun (1764-1801) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 13 Makai Canoes in the Ierendi Islands 

Tahitian warrior dugouts, Le Costume Ancien et Moderne Engraved 

Source 

by Fumagalli after Giulio Ferrario, 1827 [Public domain], via 

Wikimedia Commons 

Page 14 Nithian Conquest of the Makai Isles 

Meeting Between Cambyses II and Psammetichus III by Adrien Guignet Source 
(1816-1854) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 15 The Ierendi and Colony Islands during the Nithian Age 
Original work by Simon Neri - used by permission 

Page 27 The Ierendi and Colony Islands during the Middle Centuries 
Original work by Simon Neri - used by permission 

Page 35 Merchant Prince 

Robert Rich (1587-1658), Second Earl of Warwick by Anthony van Source 
Dyck (1599-1641) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 



Source 



Page 36 Fighting in the Tournament of Ierendi 

Illustration from page 38 of The Boy's King Arthur: "I am Sir Launcelot 
du Lake, King Ban's son of Benwick, and knight of the Round Table." 
by N.C. Wyeth (1882-1945) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 37 The Tribunal of Ierendi 

King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table, painting by Michel Source 
Gantelet from 1472 [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Pages 41 & Figures 1 to 3: Heraldic Field Divisons, Tinctures and Common 
42 Ordinaires 

Source 

Used under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 

Unported license via Wikimedia Commons 

Pages 43 Coats-of-Arms of Ierendi Noble Families 

to 57 Except as noted below, original work by Giampaolo Agosta - used by 
permission 

Page 48 Crest ofElfinblood 

Tilo para su uso en heraldica [Creative Commons Attribution-Share Source 
Alike 3.0 Unported], via Wikimedia Commons 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



AntwonR Sounces aNt) Cnefcits 




Page 48 Crest of Gentle Cinquefoil 

[Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported], via Source 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 49 Crest ofHalfelven Blue anchor 

[Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported], via Source 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 50 Crest of Halffellow Shepherd 

[Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported], via Source 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 51 Crest ofLongkeel heraldic ship Source 
[Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 52 Crest ofMarley Cinquefoil 

[Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported], via Source 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 52 Crest ofMatrongle Sea lion Source 

[Project Gutenberg archives], via Wikimedia Commons 
Page 54 Crest of Rackham 

Modified from Coat of arms of gmina T?uchowo [Public domain], via Source 

Wikimedia Commons 

Page 55 Crest of Seleukides Elephant 

[Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported], via Source 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 56 Crest of Shanwood 

Source 

meuble_heraldique_bousset [Public domain] , via Wikimedia Commons 
Page 56 Crest of Teach Dolphin hauriant 

[Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported], Source 1 

and heraldic ship Source2 
[Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 57 Crest of Van Hoorn Unicorn 

[Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported], via Source 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 61 Map of the Sea of Dread 

Original work by Simon Neri - used by permission 

Page 62 The Verdant Isle Archipelago 

Rock-Islands, Republik Palau by Peter R. Binter [Public domain], via Source 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 66 Buried Treasure on Pirate Rock 

Buried Treasure: illustration of William "Captain" Kidd overseeing a 

Source 

treasure burial by Howard Pyle (1853-1911) [Public domain], via 
Wikimedia Commons 



THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



Antwonk Sounces aNt) Cnefcits 




Page 73 Merchantmen in the Eastern Thanegioth 

"Duke of Lancaster" and "Royal Saxon" off Cape Town by Samuel Source 
Walters and Miles Walters [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 76 Old man and books Source 
openclipart.org - Public Domain 

Page 77 Black and white clip art of old book on redaing desk 

_ , .. _ Source 
Public Domain 

Page 77 Coconut Again Tomorrow 

Cocos nucifera from "Koehler's Medicinal-Plants" 1887 [Public Source 
domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 79 Under the Stars 

Table of Astronomy, Cyclopaedia, Volume 1 [Public domain], via Source 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 79 Black and white clipart of a collection of old books, ledgers and 

encyclopedia Source 
clipartpal.com - Public Domain 

Page 81 Reptilian Beasts ofBararna Island 

Svipdag transformed illustrated by John Bauer in 1911 [Public Source 
domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 83 Rakoragresh in Canoe 

Priests traveling across Kealakekua bay for first contact rituals, by John Source 
Webber, artist aboard Cook's ship. 

Pge 87 Gauntlets of Vitality 

Steel Damascened Gauntlets at the Victoria and Albert Museum [Public Source 
domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 87 Mogrethian Officer's Sword 

Iberian falcata at the National Archeological Museum of Spain 

Source 

[Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported], via 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 88 Aragresh (Glorious Warrior) 

Behemoth and Leviathan, by William Blake [Public domain], via Source 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 90 Enter the Firelord 

Fire districts symbolism, symbol hot burn fire [CCO 1.0 Universal (CCO Source 
1.0) Public Domain Dedication], via pixabay 

Page 91 Rathanos Symbol 

Original work by Giampaolo Agosta - used by permission 

Page 95 Red Dragon 

Red Dragon by Aggiorna [Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike Source 
3.0 Unported], via Wikimedia Commons 




I 238 1 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



AntwonR Sounces aNt) CneOits 
m 




Page 96 Bust of King RakAsta 

Statue of Sekhmet from the temple of Mut. granite, Luxor, New Source 
Kingdom/1403-1365 BC [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 97 Mage in the service of the Firelord Source 
Alchemist by Joseph Wright [Public domain] , via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 99 Ascension Ritual of the Firelord 

Fire Artists onstage at the Cirque du Soleil Zaia show in Macau in 2012 Source 
[GNU Free Documentation License], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 100 Daricus^ Fleet 

Modified from Solar Annulus by NASA [Public domain] , via Wikimedia Source 
Commons 

Page 103 Map of the Thanegioth Archipelago 

Original work by Ville Lahde, modified by John Calvin (using graphics 
by Thorfinn Tait) - used by permission 

Page 104 Map ofElven Isle 

Original work by Ville Lahde, modified by John Calvin (using graphics 
by Thorfinn Tait) - used by permission 

Page 107 Map of the Isle of the Firelord 

Original work by Ville Lahde, modified by John Calvin (using graphics 
by Thorfinn Tait) - used by permission 

Page 111 Milton Drads lighthouse Temple 

Bell Rock Lighthouse by W. Blackwood, 1861. _Qurce 

Page 113 lycanthropy infecting Guild Corser 

A historical engraving (18th century?) depicting a werewolf attack Source 
[Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 117 My PCs found the Hollow World! 

An illustration from the novel "Journey to the Center of the Earth" by g ource 
Jules Verne painted by Edouard Riou [Public domain] , via Wikimedia 
Commons 

Page 118 My Players made me a Cake! 

Photograph supplied by Maxime Beaulieu 

Page 124 Tribunal oflerendi 

Hus p?ed koncilem 6. Pervence 1415 by Vaclav Brozik (1851-1901) Source 
[Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 126 Map oflerendi in AC 1000 

Original work by Simon Neri - used by permission 

Page 131 Elementalist and Flame Salamander on Honour Island 

Salamander (legendary creature) M. M. Pattison Muir [Project Source 
Gutenberg Public Domain\, via Wikimedia Commons 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Page 138 Goblins on the Ierendi Islands 

Los Caprichos is a set of 80 aquatint prints created by Francisco Goya 
for release in 1799. 

Page 151 Guildmasters of Minrothad 

Portrait of Cosimo II de' Medici with Wife Maria Maddalena of Austria 
and their Son Ferdinando II de' Medici by a Follower of Justus 
Sustermans (1597-1681) (possibly Carlo Bossi) [Public domain], via 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 155 Map of Minrothad in AC 1000 

Original work by Simon Neri - used by permission 

Page 171 Siren 

Picture of "A Mermaid" by John William Waterhouse, 1901. [Public 
domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 174 Aamir Ibn Saleem 

Georg August Wallin (1811-1852), Scandinavian orientalist and 
explorer. Reproduction of portrait by Robert Wilhelm Ekman, 1853. 
[Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 175 Map of Aamir Ibn Saleem s Travels 

Original work by John Calvin (using graphics by Thorfinn Tait) - used 
by permission 

Page 177 Tayma, First Vampire Queen ofTaymora 

Elisabeth Kaiserin von Osterreich by Franz Xaver Winterhalter 
(1805-1873) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 179 Exploration under Minrothad City 

Gustave Dore's illustration of Lord Alfred Tennyson's "Idylls of the 
King", 1868. [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 182 Ghost of an Ancient Priestess 

The Shade of Samuel Invoked by Saul by D. Martynov (1826-1889) 
[Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 183 When the Pirate lords Gather 

Bombardment of Algiers by Lord Exmouth in August 1816 by Thomas 
Luny (1759-1837) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Pages 185 Captain Wyther, Captain Dwair, Captain Ismeron, Captain 

to 190 Narrogirth, Captain Kerral, Captain Kremm 

TCP Troll 4 by Jeff Preston [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 
Unported License], via from 108 Terrible Character Portraits 

Page 186 Captain Hackett 

Photo of a maori rugbyplayer tattooed by Icarus Vitae Inari [Creative 
Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported], via Wikimedia 
Commons 





Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Sourve 



Sourvce 



240 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



Page 186 Captain Clegg 

Modified from Edward Teach, originally from an engraving by 
Benjamin Cole [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 187 Captain Ling 

Modified from Janggimboo / chin. Zhanyinbao circa 1700's [Public 
domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 188 Captain Sariena 

Modified from Queen Maev by Joseph Christian Leyendecker (1874 - 
1951) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 189 Captain McRhomaag 

Modified from "Disbanded". Illustration to Walter Scott's novel 
Waverley, engraving after a painting by wjohn Pettie, as found in 
1893 illustrated print edition now available on Project Gutenberg and 
elsewhere on the web. [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 190 Captain Adrienne 

Modified from Queen Zenobia's Last Look Upon Palmyra by Herbert 
Schmalz (1856-1935) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 193 The Fall ofNithia 

Egyptian Pyramids framed by Temple Columns by Louis C. Tiffany 
[Creative Commons Attribution 2.0 Generic], via Flickr 

Page 194 First Emperor of Thyatis 

Scipio Africanus Freeing Massiva Giovanni Battista Tiepolo (1696- 
1770) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 195 The Silver Purge 

Engraving entitled Lycaon changed into a wolf by by Hendrik Goltzius 
(1558-1617) [Public domain] 

Page 196 Mad Creeps Rebellion 

Defeat of the Spanish Armada, 8 August 1588 by Philip James de 
Loutherbourg (1740-1812) [Public domain] , via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 199 Piracy in the Sea of Dread 

Burning of the Frigate Philadelphia in the Harbor of Tripoli by Edward 
Moran (1829-1901) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 200 When Taymora Sank into the Sea 

Volcanic Eruption (Fantasy) by Maxwell Hamilton [Creative Commons 
Attribution 2.0 Generic], via Flickr 

Page 201 Koskatep level 2B heading 

Modified from Wikimedia Commons sources Creative Commons 
Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported / Creative Commons Attribution 
2.0 Generic" 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



Page 201 Ogre 

Galligantus - Project Gutenberg eText 17034 Illustrated by Arthur Source 
Rackham [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 203 Map ofKoskatep Level 2B 

Original work by Francesco Defferrari - used by permission 

Page 204 Onyx Golem 

Statue of Biudicca in Westminster [Creative Commons Attribution- 

Source 

Share Alike 2.5 Generic, 2.0 Generic and 1.0 Generic license], via 
Wikimedia Commons 

Page 205 Fedor 

Source 

Viracocha [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 209 Thyatian Senate 

Cicero denouncing Catilina by Cesare Maccari, Palazzo Madama, Rome, 

Source 

Italy Cesare Maccari [Public domain or Public domain] , via Wikimedia 
Commons 

Page 210 Figure 1: Thyatian Government 

Original work by Giampaolo Agosta - used by permission 

Page 213 The Imperial Palace 

Italian Pictures, drawn with pen and pencil. [By S. M.] by Samuel Source 
Manning- LL.D [Public domain], via Flickr 

Page 217 Actius 

Auf biblischen Pfaden. Reisebilder aus Aegypten, Pala?stina, Syrien, g ource 

Kleinasien, Griechenland und der Tu?rkei. by NINCK, C. [Public 

domain], via Flickr 

Page 218 Biazzan 

lanos del Republicano. Andalusia (Spain) by El Pantera [Creative g ource 
Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported, 2.5 Generic, 2.0 
Generic and 1.0 Generic license.], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 219 Senator Tanja 

Timbouctou ... Traduit de l'Allemand ... par P. Lehautcourt by Oskar Source 
Lenz [Public domain], via Flickr 

Page 220 Caerdwicca 

The Old Man of Storr, Skye, Scotland by Wojsyl, June 2004 [Creative g ource 
Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported], via Wikimedia 
Commons 

Page 222 Furmenglaive 

Eilean Donan Castle at Loch Duich in Scotland photographed by Sonja g ource 
Pieper [Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 2.0 Generic], via 
Wikimedia Commons 



THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



Next Issue 




Page 225 Hattias 

Castle Bouzov, District Olomouc, Czech Republic by Marzper [Public 
domain], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 226 Oesterhaus 

Image taken from page 365 of 'Az Osztra?k-Magyar Monarchia ira?sban 
e?s ke?pben [Public domain], via Flickr 

Page 228 Senator Leonidas 

Portrait of a Man by Anonymous (Roman Empire) from Walters Art 
Museum [Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported 
License], via Wikimedia Commons 

Page 232 Kerendas 

Le defile des Contrade du 15 aout 1546 by Vincenzo Rustici [Public domain], via 
Wikimedia Commons 



Source 



Source 



Source 



Source 



next: issue 



wy"*"!^ j 



Not final cover 



The Sea of Dread is vast. . . so large in fact that we 
will be returning to its shores in Issue #4. Fans 
continue to dream up adventures across the waves, 
so much so in fact, that we could scarcely fit them 
into one issue! The surface of these dangerous 
waters have as yet, been barely pierced. The journey 
is far from over, and soon we will all... 

Return To 
the Sea of Dread 

 Anticipated contents include: 

 Adventuring on Pirate Isle in search of the Three 
Starflowers 

 Exploring the War Rafts of Kron 

 Advice for Traders sailing these waters 

 Concluding the History of Ierendi and Minrothad 

 In depth Conversion for the Savage Tide AP 



. . . and much more! 




THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine Issue #3 



Submission QuideliNes 



Proposals 

All proposal submissions can be sent by mail 
to the editors at the following address 
Threshold .Mystara(a) gmail.com , and must be 
received by the proposal deadlinet. The 
Threshold editorial team will contact you 
within 7 days of the proposal deadline 
regarding the status of your proposal. 

Submission proposals should be sent inline 
in the mail, using the following subject format: 
[ISSUE#] [Proposal] <title of your article> 

The mail content should include the following: 

 Proposed article title 

 The type of article being proposed (short 
story, adventure, geographical location, 
organization, etc..) 

 A one paragraph description of what the 
article is about. 

 An estimated word count of the article 
(articles should range anywhere from 1000 
to 7000 words, depending on the type of 
article submitted) . 

Manuscripts 

Manuscripts should only be submitted after 
you proposal has been accepted by the 
Threshold editorial staff, and must be received 
by the manuscript deadlinet. When submitting 
a manuscript file, please use the following 
naming convention: 
threshold_#_your_title. < extension > 
(extension: see below for recommended file 
formats) 

and the following subject format: 

[ISSUE#] [Manuscript] <title of your article> 

The mail content should include the following: 

 The article title. 

 An attached document containing the 
article contents. 

 The final word count of the article. 



types of contributions. Please contact us to 
inquire if and how we can accommodate 
unusual contribution formats. 

The following guidelines apply to different 
types of submissions: 

Illustrations: please submit art and maps in 
lossless format (e.g., PNG). 

Articles: manuscript submissions can be sent 
by mail as plain text, doc(x) or odt, or shared 
as Google Doc. The issue editor will create a 
shared document (for each article) to allow 
the author and editorial team to work on it. 
Articles can be as short as a single page, or as 
long as 6 pages, depending on the specific 
content. The editorial team will do its best to 
accommodate the contributions, but 
especially long works may be split over 
several issues. 

Tables: Tables should be numbered (Table 
X: Name of Table), and any references in the 
article should refer to that table number (and 
not to "the table below," for example). 

Author Bios : Please include a short blurb (one 
or two sentences) biography/blurb about 
yourself for our "contributing authors" 
section. It can be serious or silly, but don't 
get too carried away with it, please. 

Other types of contributions: the editorial 
team will consider on a case by case basis 
other types of contributions. Please contact 
us to inquire if and how we can accommodate 
unusual contribution formats. 

tRefer to "Call for Contributions" (page 109 ) 
for next issue deadline dates. 

#Insert relevant issue number in place of '#' 



Other types of contributions: the editorial 
team will consider on a case by case basis other 





THRESHOLD: The Mystara Magazine 



Issue #3 



SailiNQ tl7G Dneat> Sea 



The Sea of Dread - these dark tempestuous waters loom off the 
southern coast of Brun, a raging force of nature that has shaped 
many of the nations in the Known World. Many of us have set 
sail upon these waters before, featured in adventure modules 
from XI - The Isle of Dread, XSOLO - Lathan's Gold, X7 - The 
War Rafts of Kron, and many more. 

These waters hold dangers both above and below the surface. 
Pirates from Ierendi, the Shires, and even far away Alphatia 
terrorize the shipping lanes, while the Tritons of Twaelar and 
sea monsters extort and terrorize ships that sail in deeper waters 
near the Thangioth Archipelago and along the shores of Davania. 

The third issue of Threshold the Mystara Magazine follows in 
the tradition of exploring the unknown waters of the Sea of 
Dread... a tradition that will be continued in the next issue 
when we return to these waters. 




r 



www.pandius.c 





eshold.Mystara@gmail.com 



