Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09485 AD& D Forgotten Realms Secret Of Spiderhaunt ( 1 4)"
See other formats


For 4 to 6 Chilrdci.LT'i of [.ovck L to ¦=! 




















E X'vi^ / - *: 1 

e 'Y*:P& i 

f*f* *&*fcjfTf ' #i 

*,** A >* ' ty f *<***f~ #•**" 1 * | 

mm ?,> 

** st- r **,?< $ - , • ,** - 

2 •*> * .... '•*.. . • "*. . 


v.-jj 


iAS 

* "";<{; v%x+&% \ 

-2 *• **+&&. **v" • . , 

&XI* t} H *''VJp £1 *" *. ¦% * B 

- '- B 

fekiVi M&tt .- ¦ -. il 

; . BBMB 

95*2 I<r %V.v^'- ! f '** BtfwfTlHl 

> r '¦ . B - 

*;¦ . • ., 


.^owni"** 


On€ 1 NCI 7 = 10 Miles 


Clean Cnail 


HiODeN Cnaii-MabanN's Rout* 


'Oje CetijyaMaR mail 






The SecReT of 
SptdefcbauioT 


by J)m BuTleR 

Table of Co mTonjTs 


Welcome To SplbeRbauKiT_2 

What Happened BefoRe_ 2 

DM Notes_5 

StaRfOwg the AdvewTuue_.4 

HelRlooms_ 4 

DReam Visions_ 6 

SuueeT D Reams_f> 

TRa)lbouw 6 l _ 7 

FoResT Gwome Exodus_ 11 

The Village of StoRmpembaudeR_11 

FeaRful NigbT- 13 

AfTeRmaTb DReams_ 13 

DReam TocueR_ 18 

AppRoacb- 18 


Fiwal Battle.24 

WRappiwg It Up_25 

MowsteRs 

ARcb-Sbadoco_2(5 

Dem)-Shade_27 

DaRkew beast__2 8 

Magical Items awd Spells 

the ScuoRd of the DaLes_2P 

DReamglobe_2 P 

telepoRt Riwg_50 

CReate DaRkewbeast._5 0 

Sbadouusbield_ 50 

EwcouwteRs Appewdix._51 


CRed iTs 

Design: Jim Butler • Editing: Allison Lassieur • Project Coordinator: David Wise 
Cover Art: Bruce Eagle • Interior Art: David Day • Typesetting: Nancy J. Kerkstra 
Cartography: Dave Sutherland III • Graphic Design: Dee Barnett and Renee Ciske 
Playtesters: Eran Edwards, Dennis Johnson, Leonard McGillis, 

Deneen Olsen, Brandy Stevens, Deb Turner 


TSR, Inc. 

201 Sheridan Springs Rd. 
Lake Geneva, 

WI 53147 
U.S.A. 

9485XXX1501 



TSR Ltd. 
120 Church End, 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and FORGOTTEN REALMS are registered trademarks owned by TSR, 
Inc. The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. 
All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by 
TSR. This is a work of fiction. Any semblance to any real person, living 
or dead, is purely coincidental. Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution 
rights in the book trade for English language products of TSR, Inc. Dis 
tributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and 
hobby trade by regional distributors. 

This book is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
other unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 


(c)1995 by TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. Printed in the U.S.A. 


ISBN1-56076-848-7 

































Welcome To 

SptdeRb&UNft 

TIjere is more to adventurers' worth than the sharpness of their blades and the pureness of 
their hearts. I measure them by their gold. 

- Kimal Rax, Jeweler of Arabel 

a Forgotten Realms(r) Campaign Set- 
iracters of 1st through 4th levels. It is 
;ast one cleric in the party to battle the 
will face. All party members should be 
unless most of them are 4th level, in 
which case a lst-level character or two is acceptable. 

This is the second installment of the Sword of the Dales trilogy. It is important 
that the DM thoroughly read this module before beginning play, because the Sword 
of the Dales has additional powers that were not revealed in the first adventure. In 
addition, the arch-shadow Gothyl begins to take a more active interest in the char 
acters in this adventure. Specific information regarding both the Sword and the 
arch-shadow Gothyl can be found at the end of this module. 

WbaT Happened Before 

I n Tire Sword of the Dales, the characters were hired by Lhaeo, scribe to Elmin- 
ster of Shadowdale, to rescue Randal Morn. Lhaeo explained the situation sur 
rounding Randal Morn's disappearance and all known information about the 
wizard Shraevyn. 

According to local legend, Shraevyn created a sword of tremendous power hun 
dreds of years ago, just before his death. His secret hideaway had been lost in his 
tory until a recent landslide uncovered his tomb in the valley of the Giant's Craw. 
Lord Randal Morn, a local rebel leader who battles against the Zhentarim occupa 
tion, learned that the crypt had been accidentally discovered. He immediately 
pulled together a search party and rushed to the tomb to recover the weapon. No 
sooner had he successfully retrieved the sword than Zhentarim forces attacked his 
band outside Shraevyn's tomb. A bloody fight ensued, and Randal's party pum- 
meled the Zhents into retreat. 

Then events at the tomb turned to terror. Randal and his group were mysteri 
ously attacked by a horde of undead, and the rebels-including Randal himself- 
vanished. Only one of his men escaped alive. Ariton, the lone Dalesman survivor, 
staggered to Elminster's tower seeking help, and Lhaeo tended the man's wounds 
and listened to his story. In payment, Ariton gave him a long sword +1 he found in 
the crypt. The scribe then decided to round up some recruits and send them to res 
cue Randal Morn. 

What neither Ariton nor Lhaeo knows is that the undead were commanded by 
a being whose very existence depends on the Sword. Gothyl, an arch-shadow. 


fim 


he Secret of Spiderhaunt is ; 
ting adventure for six chc 
essential that there be at k 
variety of undead the PCs 
at least 2nd level as well. 





2 












emerged from the Sword itself, captured Randal, and 
killed all in his party. 

Gothyl was once a wizardess of tremendous power 
who sought to achieve lichdom some 150 years past. 
The process failed, and she was instead changed into 
her current form, a powerful arch-shadow. 

Gothyl plans to trick the PCs into believing she is a 
good spirit bound to the Sword. By leading them to 
long-lost treasures, Gothyl hopes to gain their trust. 

The Zhents know Randal is missing and believe 
him to be held somewhere as a prisoner, but they have 
no idea of Gothyl's involvement. If they can take Ran 
dal before a meddling band of do-gooders frees him, 
the Zhentarim hold on Daggerdale will be complete. 

DM NoTes 

othyl's goal is to transfer the spirits of her disem 
bodied apprentices into the living bodies of the 
PCs. She cares virtually nothing about the heroes save 
for their presence at her tower. 

The arch-shadow is striving to ultimately achieve 
the status of a demi-shade (see page 27). In order to 
accomplish this, she needs to drain life energy from 
someone powerful. Randal Morn will do just fine, but 
she must keep him alive as bait until the PCs arrive 
and are possessed by her apprentices. With this 
accomplished, she plans to drain Randal Morn of his 
life force and have her minions carry out her will. 

This adventure begins when Gothyl sends the 
heroes a dream of a tower in Spiderhaunt Wood, the 
place where Randal Morn is held. Characters who 
completed Die Sword of the Doles know that Randal is 
imprisoned somewhere in the dark wood but have no 
idea exactly where he is-until now. 

As the PCs venture deeper into Spiderhaunt, they 
meet Madarn, a gnome fighter from the forest village 
of Stormpemhauder. If they tell him about the dreams, 
he recognizes the tower from their descriptions. He 
agrees to lead them to the tower if they first accom 
pany him to Stormpemhauder and tell their story to 
Telimas Dreamweaver, the village elder. 

Telimas is the elder priest of the village, and he has 
been plagued by numerous dream visions of late-the 
same ones the characters are having. Once the PCs 
talk with Telimas, he gives Madarn his blessing and 
permission to lead the party to the tower. 

Unfortunately, Gothyl discovers that Telimas saw 


the vision meant for the PCs. She decides to kill the 
gnome, and undead attack the village of Storm 
pemhauder shortly after midnight. The PCs have the 
chance to save Telimas's life as well as kill more 
undead creatures. 

The journey with Madarn through the forest is 
fraught with danger, but the party finally arrives at 
Gothyl's tower. As they approach, the PCs succumb to 
the magic of another dream vision sent by Gothyl. 

Madarn has no intention of venturing into the dark 
recesses of the tower, but he agrees to guard the camp 
while the PCs explore. The characters go through an 
apparently deserted keep, but undead are hiding 
behind wall panels and secret doors. 

Gothyl actually placed the undead here to attack 
the Zhent force that is closing in on the tower even as 
the PCs enter. The Zhents are led by Ilthond, the 
Zhent mage who nearly died at the hands of Shandril 
in the novel Spellfire. This force is determined to cap 
ture both Randal Morn and the Sword of the Dales as 
well as to find out who interfered with their plans. 

The PCs reach Gothyl's laboratory just as the 
Zhents enter the tower, and a battle royale erupts 
between the hidden undead and the Zhents. The PCs 
see Randal Morn trapped in a dreamglobe , and 
Gothyl-pretending to be a trapped spirit of the Sword 
of the Dales -reveals herself to the party. 

Gothyl tries to convince the PCs that they were set up by 
the Zhents from the beginning. She also explains that the 
only way to release Randal is by uttering a certain phrase as 
they touch a set of skeletons in another room. 

If the PCs do this, they find themselves under a spiritual 
attack by Gothyl's apprentices. If they refuse, the Zhents enter 
and try to touch the skeletons themselves. Suddenly, the PCs 
find themselves face-to-face with Zhent warriors as well as a 
very angry Ilthond. 

The adventure concludes when Ilthond threatens the PCs 
by name. The wizard then breaks the glass dreamglobe, releases 
Randal Morn, then throws the unconscious warrior over his 
shoulder and tries to take possession of the skulls and the 
Sword of the Dales. Lightning leaps from the blade and strikes 
Ilthond, who then vanishes with both Randal and the skulls. 

Gothyl is furious. Not only has she lost her apprentices, 
but she must now put her fate in the hands of the same 
adventurers whom she planned to use as possessed puppets. 
However, she puts on a good show of benevolence by casting 
a shadowshield spell on the party. 

The Sword of the Dales trilogy concludes in The 
Return of Randal Morn. 






3 





STarT) wg the 

A^veKituRe 

haracters who have completed The Sword of the 
Dales begin this adventure either in the hills out 
side the Giant's Craw or wherever any intervening 
adventures led them. 

If the PCs are making their way to Spiderhaunt, 
they have their first dream vision the night before 
they plan to enter the dark wood. If the PCs have 
been adventuring elsewhere, Gothyl begins sending 
them dream visions to lure them to Spiderhaunt, 
specifically to the crossroad of the Tethyamar Trail and 
the Northride. 

These dreams get worse until each PC dreads sleep. 
If they ignore these midnight messages, Gothyl sends 
skeletons, bonebats, and zombies to trouble them. But 
instead of striking the PCs directly, the undead attack 
anyone who comes in contact with them. Soon the 
PCs are considered cursed and are forced to move on. 

Once the PCs are in place, proceed to Dream 
Visions on page 6. Characters who did not go through 
the first module begin with Heirlooms, just a few 
miles west of Shadowdale, along the Tethyamar Trail. 

Helrcloonris 

haracters are walking along the Tethyamar Trail at 
the point where the Arachnid Pathway breaks free 
of Spiderhaunt (see Map 3 on the inside cover). 


The late afternoon sun warms the stones beneath 
your feet as you trudge on the Tethyamar Trail 
toward Shadowdale. The winds have been calm all 
day, and the last stubborn puddles of water from 
last night's torrential rains are slowly evaporating. 

It should only be a few more hours until we reach 
Shadowdale, you think to yourself. We may even be 
fortunate enough to meet Elminster, the most powerful 
wizard in Faerun. 

Suddenly, a human male wielding a long sword 
comes stumbling out of the nearby trees. His face 
is white and his hair stands on end in wild tufts. 
His chain mail armor is smeared with blood - 


much of it his own, you notice -and his eyes dart 
frantically across your group. 

The tip of the man's sword dips toward the 
ground, and he breaks into a fit of coughing. Spit 
tle and blood run down his short, scraggly beard as 
he tries to speak. 

"You are those I have seen," he gasps. "Perhaps 
all is not yet lost." With that, he falls against a 
nearby tree and slowly slides against it to the 
ground, still gazing up at you. 


He refuses any priests who attempt to help him, but 
he does let someone bind his wounds. When the party 
gathers around him, he continues his story. 


"My name is Temeron Flightseeker," the warrior 
begins, "and I am the last of the Company of the 
Aerie. Some weeks ago we were commissioned by 
Lhaeo, scribe to Elminster of Shadowdale, to res 
cue Randal Morn." The warrior gasps and coughs, 
fighting for breath. 

"We were told the story of the wizard Shraevyn, 
who created a mystical long sword that Randal 
Morn sought to wield. The Company went to res 
cue Randal Morn at the tomb of Shraevyn, but the 
fighter was not there. All we discovered were 
undead, Zhentarim, and a note from Randal 
telling us to seek him in Spiderhaunt." 

A gurgling sound produces more blood, which 
wets the front of Temeron's chain mail. He whis 
pers, "We also found the Sword." He nods toward 
the weapon still clutched in his right hand. "The 
Sword of the Dales," he says, "the weapon capable 
of restoring Randal Mom to his rightful throne. 
Lord, King, and Emperor of all of the Dalefolk!" 
His eyes close for several moments, and you fear he 
has lapsed into unconsciousness. Finally his eyes 
flutter open and he speaks again. 

"This weapon is powerful, true, but its powers 
cannot hope to drive the Zhentarim from Dag- 
gerdale. 1 have discovered it can unlock chains 
and manacles when the wielder speaks the word 
merrydale. It also allows me to breathe underwater 
for a period of time. It has proven effective against 
undead, but I can only assume it's because the 
blade has other powerful enchantments." 

Temeron closes his eyes and seizures rock his 
body, but his grip on the Sword of the Dales remains 
strong. 




4 
















It is clear that he's going to die soon. If anyone 
moves to help him or if the PC aiding him continues 
to do so, read the text below. If not, Temeron dies 
without revealing anything else. 


"We searched Spiderhaunt for weeks, but to no 
avail. As we left the woods three days ago, we were 
attacked by a horde of undead creatures. Forlim, 
Emenslee, Worsha - friends all -died at my feet as 
we tried to destroy them. Only I escaped, and I 
have been pursued for days by creatures that do 
not fear the light of day." 

Gasping and coughing, Temeron's face contorts 
into a painful grimace. Gazing at each of you, his 
voice drops to a low gurgle. 

"I can no longer feel my legs. It is to your com 
pany that I give this weapon; you must decide 
amongst yourselves who will wield it. Of my pos 
sessions, take what you need and burn the rest 
with my body. Rescue Randal Morn and succeed 
where we have failed! Follow your hearts into Spi 
derhaunt." With one final ragged breath, Temeron 
breathes no more. 


Unless the PCs possess powerful healing magic, 
Temeron dies after releasing the Sivord. A successful 
healing proficiency or herbalism check reveals that 
the man is poisoned. A potion of Sweetwater, neutralize 
poison spell, or similar cure is effective in saving 
Temeron's life. 

Should he be revived, Temeron is thankful to the 
PCs, but also determined to be rid of the Sivord of the 
Dales. He then professes to be strong enough to stum 
ble his way to Shadowdale and bids the PCs good luck 
on their quest. 

Temeron carries a long sword +1, one potion of extra- 
healing, the Sword of the Dales, four days' worth of iron 
rations, a pouch containing 78 gp, a holy symbol of 
Mystra, and three normal daggers. 

His chain mail needs much work. Many links are 
crushed, broken and bloodied, and the vest serves as 
only AC 7 until repaired. 

From this point, characters should begin their jour 
ney into Spiderhaunt. Once they reach the edge of the 
woods, proceed with Dream Visions on page 6. 



5 



























DReam V)$)o jos 

"Gaze info the crown of night to know which paths are wrong and right. 

Those are the answers to which I seek. Note, open the gates and drive forth the weak." 

- Emril Charan, priest of Shar, when asked the surest way to power. 

f the party is healthy, it should reach Spiderhaunt in ld6+6 hours if 
they do not stop or have any encounters along the way. The PCs 
should arrive at the edge of Spiderhaunt in late afternoon. The 
Arachnid Pathway, which leads into the forest, is difficult to find. 
Each player has a 30% chance per turn of spotting it. 

As the characters enter the wood, read the following: 



It's late in the day. You're only a few yards inside the forest, and it seems as if night 
collapsed upon you in a crash. Trees press in on all sides, eerie pinpoints of light stare 
out from the darkness, and the canopy of branches overhead blocks out virtually all 
of the late-afternoon light you know was there when you entered the wood. 


Detain the PCs with predatory forest creatures or other diversions until they 
elect to wait for morning to enter the forest again. 


ScueeT Dreams 



uring second watch, or when party members are asleep, read the following. 
Those on guard duty are not affected. 


Wind whips the misty white vapors swirling around your body. You see black 
feathers covering your arms, and you realize you are flying far above the earth. 
Then you drop through the clouds and dive into the forest below. 

The trees seem close and oppressive, and a narrow trail winds its way below 
hanging, web-filled branches. Numerous points of crimson lights stare from 
behind the leaves of the trees. In the distance, the trail widens into a large 
clearing that contains the ruins of a large stone tower. Before your winged form 
takes you any closer to it, you hear a voice crying out into the night. 

"Help me," the ghostly voice wails from somewhere within the woods, "lest 
your own soul be lost among the pathways of unworthiness." 


Characters are jarred awake at the conclusion of the dream. Each PC should have 
this dream once a night until they reach the tower, and they have a 50% chance of 
being unable to sleep again afterward. The details of the dream become more fright 
ening to each character as the nights progress, and the DM should add elements of 
each PCs personal experiences to make each dream more vivid and real. 



6 
























Tiz&)hboutobl 

' Mi ovement anywhere but on the Arachnid Path- 
J V Jl_ way is impossible on horseback, and the trail is 
the only quick way to traverse the tangled trees and 
shrubs. Characters who decide to brave the thick, 
dense underbrush soon realize how difficult it is to 
progress through Spiderhaunt in this fashion (MV1) 
and how easily it would be to be attacked by surprise. 

Random encounters occur once every eight hours 
during the day and once every four hours at night. 
Refer to the Encounters Appendix on page 31 for a 
list of possible meetings along the trail. 

The following encounters occur regardless of any 
precautions taken by the adventurers. 


one free round of action before they are attacked, 
since the creatures have some difficulty moving 
through the tree branches and shafts of sunlight. 

When the darkenbeasts reach the party, one imme 
diately heads for whoever holds the Sword of the 
Dales while the others attack random targets. The 
Sword inflicts double damage against the darkenbeasts. 

Darkenbeast (3): Int semi-; AC 4; MV 3, FI 
18(C); HD 5+5; hp 33, 28, 24; THACO 19; #AT 1 
or 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/3d4; SD immune to mind-con- 
trolling spells and abilities; SZ M; ML n/a; XP 975. 

The mercenaries who follow directly behind the 
darkenbeasts were hired by the Zhentarim to retrieve 
the Sword of the Dales after the party has been weak 
ened by the creatures. 


A. Olb Fnietobs 

Note to DM: The following actions should happen in 
roughly the order in which they appear. 

After ld4 hours into the forest, the party comes to 
a small clearing. 


A movement at the opposite end of the clearing 
catches your eye. Shrouded in the gloom is a group 
of men, all on foot. Behind them stand two horses, 
with two men clad in robes astride them. Those 
men look familiar, you think, when an unnatural cry 
breaks through the silence. The flapping of leath 
ery wings reverberate in the forest. 

Pinpoints of red light flicker from the eye sockets 
of three flying creatures hurling through the darkness 
toward you. Resembling ebony-skinned pterodactyls 
with long tails and glistening white fangs, they cover 
the distance between you surprisingly fast, consider 
ing the tangle of tree branches they must maneuver. 

From behind them you hear the clank of 
advancing men in armor. You can see lanterns 
bobbing in the darkness like angry fireflies. 

The darkenbeasts were created by the Zhent mages 
to attack the party. These creatures revert to their true 
form in daylight, so a PC who stands in a beam of sun 
light is not attacked. Unfortunately, the trees of Spi 
derhaunt shroud 80% of all light. 

Characters not surprised by the darkenbeasts have 


Mercenaries (6): lst-level human fighters; AL 
LE; AC 5; MV 12; hp 6 each; THACO 20; #AT 
1; Dmg ld8 (long swords) or by weapon type; SZ 
M; ML 11; XP 35. 

Before the soldiers get to the group, both Zhent 
wizards cast lightning bolts at the wielder of the Sword of 
the Dales. When this occurs, read the following: 


In the midst of the chaos you glimpse a bright flash 
streaking from the robed men. Time seems to stop 
as two lightning bolts fly toward the Sword of the 
Dales and strike it full on the blade. Then, without 
a sound, the bolts bounce off the Sword and zoom 
back toward the wizards. 

The last thing you see before turning back to 
the battle is the looks of anger and amazement 
that cross the wizards' faces as the magic hits them. 


Tierimar, 7th-level Zhent mage: AL LE; AC 4; 

MV 12; hp 22; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg by 
weapon type; S 11; D 16; C 15; I 17; W 12; CH 10; 
XP 2,000; bracers of defense AC 6, ring of protection 
+1, wand of lightning (5 charges), staff+1, dagger +1. 
Spells: 1st level: burning hands, feather fall, magic 
missile, shocking grasp. 2nd level: mirror image, 
Melfs acid arroiv (x2). 3rd level: Melfs minute 
meteors, vampiric touch. 4th Level: create darken 
beast (already cast). 





7 











Morias, 5th-level Zhent mage: AL LE; AC 3; 
MV 12; hp 19; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by 
weapon type; S 9; D 17; C 16; 1 15; W 11; CH 12; 

XP 975; dagger +1, ring of fire resistance. 

Spells: 1st level: amor (already cast), magic mis 
sile, darkness. 2nd level: mirror image, shatter. 3rd 
level: lightning bolt. 

If the wizards survive the reflected magic, Tierimar 
hurls Melf s acid arrow at a spell caster and Morias 
sends darkness onto the wielder of the Sword. 

If the mages are killed by the bolts, the mercenaries 
immediately retreat. If not, the soldiers must make a 
morale check when they see the lightning strike; all 
soldiers who fail the check run away. 

If the mages are in a position to do so, both 
Morias and Tierimar next cast mirror image and pre 
pare to wade into the thick of battle. When they get 
there, Tierimar uses burning hands against his nearest 
opponent. Morias casts shatter at the nearest cleric, 
hoping to ruin any potions or vials the priest might 
have. 

The battle continues until the characters are 
defeated or the Zhents are killed. Tierimar and Morias 
neither retreat nor surrender, but the brigands flee as 
soon as half their number is defeated. 

If the PCs are victorious, they find the Zhent camp 
a few yards from the clearing. At the camp is a total of 
212 gp, 40 days' worth of iron rations, eight riding 
horses, three potions (extra-healing, Sweetwater, and 
climbing), and two spell books. Each spell book con 
tains the spells that Tierimar and Morias memorized 
plus ld6 additional 1st- and 2nd-level spells, as deter 
mined by the DM. 

B. The A KAchtoid 

PaThujav 

T his trail is the primary roadway of brigands and 
other outlaws who flee into the forest. 


Slowly your eyes register on an astounding 
sight: Huge spiderwebs swinging among the trees 
around you. Some are more than 15 feet around. 


Unfortunately, this trail runs through the heart of 
what many refer to as the Web. This area contains the 
largest number of spiders. Some webs along the trail 
are nearly invisible; characters blunder face first into 
them unless they devise suitable precautions. 

The webs on the trail vary in size from small, deli 
cate cobwebs to sticky strings that are almost impossi 
ble to remove from hair and clothing. PCs who 
continue to walk through webs are soon wrapped in a 
sticky mess that takes ldl2 rounds to remove. 

Characters searching the trail find the shriveled, 
empty bodies of birds, squirrels, mice, and other small 
animals -the spiders' victims. 

The spiders are none too happy about invaders in 
their home. After ld6 rounds, the PCs are attacked by 
a horde of tiny arachnids. 

Hairy Spiders (16): Int Low; AL NE; AC 8; MV 

12, Wb 9; HD 1-1; hp 4 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; 

Dmg 1; SA poison (type A); SZ T; ML 10; XP 65. 

C. Gtz&xV 
Sp )bevfh utoTen 

An interesting sight greets you as you round a 
curve in the trail. About 30 feet ahead, a sturdy, 
sweaty gnome strains furiously as he grapples with 
a spider the same size as him. 

Every muscle in his gnarled gray-brown body is 
taut with exertion. As you watch, you realize he is 
slowly forcing the arachnid before him with a 
device that looks something like a mancatcher. It 
is draped over the spider's abdomen, and most of 
the creature's legs are off the ground. 


The intertwining branches above you form entire 
networks of wooden webs, and splashes of light 
spotlight small sections of underbrush at your feet. 


Alert characters have a 75% chance of hearing the 
gnome's loud attempt to cage the spider before they actu 
ally come across him. It is highly unlikely the gnome 
hears the party, however, since his total concentration is 
on the job at hand. If a PC truly bumbles a hide in shad- 


8 

















ows or move silently check by 20% or more, the gnome 
hears or sees the character. Any percentile roll of 95% or 
more alerts the gnome to the PC's presence as well. 

When the PCs see the gnome, continue: 


Suddenly the struggling spider catches sight of a 
sturdy cage some 10 feet away. Frantic clicking 
noises fill the air as the spider flails madly. 

"There's no escape for ya this time, longlegs," 
the gnome growls as he inches forward. "I've no 
desire to chase yer furry body anymore today." The 
clicking noises grow louder and venom drips from 
the spider's fangs to the moist ground below. With 
a final burst of speed, the gnome charges the spider 
into the cage. Disengaging his device and slam 
ming the door almost simultaneously, the old 
gnome collapses against the side of the metal cage. 
Gasping for breath, only then does he glance at 
your party. His eyes widen in surprise, then a grin 
cracks the gnome's craggy face. 

He slowly rises from the earth and motions 
toward you with a small, callused hand. "I would 


have introduced myself more formally," he apolo 
gizes with a chuckle, "but I was kinda busy." 

"Me name's Madarn Spiderhunter," he contin 
ues. "I'm a trapper and merchant, and I hail from 
the village of Stormpemhauder. And who might 
you be? 


Madarn Spiderhunter, 5th-level forest gnome 
fighter: AL NG; AC 4; MV 12; h P 54; THACO 
16; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type +1; S 17, D 12, 

C 17, I 11, W 12, CH 13; SZ S; ML 14; XP 975; 
short sword, 40 poisoned darts (type O), leather 
+2, shield +1. 

Large Spider (Caged): Int animal; AL N; AC 8; 
MV 6, Wb 15; HD 1+1; hp 5; THACO 19; #AT 
1; Dmg 1 + poison (type A); SZ S; ML 7; XP 175. 

Madarn offers to take the party to his village of 
Stormpemhauder. He tells them of the good food and 
fine products available for sale there. 



9 
















































If any character asks about the ruined tower 
from the dreams. Madam's eyes darken and he mut 
ters, "Me thinks we'd better get back to town with 
all due haste." He won't offer any information 
about the tower or the village, insisting that if the 
party is looking for help, the first stop must be 
Stormpemhauder. 

As the group prepares to set out, Madarn heaves 
the spider cage onto a wooden, wagonlike contraption 
with four wheels. He then straps a harness onto his 
shoulders and begins pulling the load. 

Madarn talks to the variety of traders who come 
through Spiderhaunt and is always interested in affairs 
outside the woods. He asks many questions about the 
group's adventures, where the PCs hail from, and 
what's going in the world. 

Of all the topics of conversation to avoid, how 
ever, animal trapping is high on the list. Madarn has 
a variety of things to say about this subject, and 
nature-bound characters may or may not agree with 
him. 

In Madam's view, there's nothing wrong with a 
good trap; he has dozens set around the forest. He 
has no delusions about his profession and he whole 
heartedly believes that trapping spiders is in the 
best interest of his village. He also loves a good 
argument and does his best to harass nature-ori 
ented PCs who seem to have a problem with his 
environmental tactics. 

A short distance from the village, spiders leap from 
the trees and attack. PCs roll for surprise with a -6 
penalty. 

Huge Spiders (3): Int animal; AL N; AC 6; MV 

18; HD 2+2; hp 14, 12, 9; THACO 19; #AT 1; 

Dmg ld6; SA jumping, poison (type A); SZ M; 

ML 8; XP 270. 

One spider immediately attacks whoever is clos 
est to the back of the cage, another attacks Madarn, 
and the third attacks a random party member. 

At the end of the battle, Madarn looks for anyone 
who was bitten by the spiders. He's concocted six 
doses of an herbal remedy that nullifies the effects of 
the poison. If needed, he can make ld6 additional 
doses with supplies he's carrying, but it takes two 
rounds per dose to manufacture. 


D. Gtoome Village 


The dark woods of Spiderhaunt open into a large, 
grassy clearing. Nestled in this hideout is a rag-tag 
collection of mud-brick huts and stone buildings. 

A large sandy area in the center of the clearing 
contains a blackened fire pit. Gnome children - 
wiry, loud, and full of wild energy - immediately 
stop their play and stampede over to your group. 

"Are these heroes?" a little girl asks excitedly. 

"How many dragons have you chopped up?" 
another asks with awe in his voice. 

The questions continue in a mad tumble, allow 
ing no time for an answer before it's drowned out 
by dozens of new questions. 

Various animals wander around and others are 
in cages near the buildings. Between the animals' 
cries and the children's questions, the entire vil 
lage has the feel of a surreal, out-of-control circus. 

Madarn seems unfazed by all of this, walking 
with slow deliberation toward the largest of the 
stone structures. As you disengage yourself from 
the children and follow, the door to the building 
opens and an old gnome with wrinkled leather 
skin emerges. He's dressed in brightly-colored 
robes and is calmly making smoke rings with an 
ornately carved pipe. 


Madarn bows in a low, reverent salute when 
Telimas Dreamweaver steps out, then glances back to 
make sure the party does the same. 

Telimas Dreamweaver, 3rd-level forest gnome 
cleric: AL NG; AC 8; MV 12; hp 13; THACO 
18; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 +1; S 11, D 12, C 10, I 13, 

W 18, CH 14; XP 175; staff +1, ring of protection +2. 

Once Telimas acknowledges the party, the elder 
gnome motions Madarn forward and confers with him 
for a few minutes. Then Madarn steps back and 
Telimas turns to the group. 


The old gnome smiles as he makes his way down 
the wooden steps of the building. With one small 
hand he motions you up as he steps forward. 


10 















It is oddly quiet, and you realize that all chatter 
and movement in the village stopped when the 
priest stepped out of the doorway. 

"Madarn has told me how he discovered your 
party," the priest begins, his low voice cutting 
through the air. "Tell, me, have you had trouble 
sleeping lately?" He gazes intently into your 
faces. 

With a quick move, the gnome suddenly grabs 
[name of the PC nearest to him] by the arm. 
Gently caressing the hand, he says, "Feathers of 
darkness do not belong on this skin." 


At this point the old priest simply watches the PCs' 
reactions. He's sure that these are the same people he 
saw transformed into ravens during his dream a few 
nights ago, but he wants to give the PCs the opportu 
nity to reveal their visions on their own. 

Regardless of what the PCs say or do, Telimas 
insists that they spend the night in the village. If any 
character talks of the dreams, Telimas invites them to 
stay in his own home for the night. If not, he sets 
them up in one of the old warehouses. 

The old gnome does not know the identity of the 
voice in the dream, but he does know the location of 
the abandoned tower. He instructs Madarn to take the 
PCs there, but only if they've been honest with him. 

Telimas's visions can be an interesting topic of con 
versation during the evening hours, as he is revered in 
the village for his soothsaying abilities. 

The Village of 
STo kcd p emh xxxbev. 

8 ' tormpemhauder is home to about 125 gnomes. 

They have a thriving, self-contained village that 
is, for the most part, secure from the outside world. 

A. Homes: Each of these small, comfortable brick 
buildings houses a family. 

B. Warehouses: Most of these 7-foot-tall structures 
are filled with food and miscellaneous equipment. The 
gnomes keep one empty for caravans that happen into 
their village, and it contains comfortable bunks and 
ample storage space for travelers. 


FonesT Gwome Exodus 

Many years ago, these gnomes lived within the trees, 
hiding from the travelers who frequented their forest. 
Then, acting upon the advice of Telimas 
Dreamweaver, they set about building a trading post. 

Inquisitive players may want to know why the 
gnomes left the trees to conduct trade with the 
humans and other Dales traders. Although this is 
beyond the scope of the module, it rests upon a 
vision that Telimas had all those years ago. 

Telimas saw a wave of spiders marching across 
the Realms, destroying everything that stood 
before it. The black horde was led by a dark- 
skinned elven female with a crown of glittering sil 
ver. Everyone - gnomes, elves, dwarves, and 
humans alike -died before her onslaught. 

Since many spiders make their homes in Spi- 
derhaunt Wood, Telimas thought that his clan 
might be able to prevent this spider queen from 
succeeding if the gnomes knew what was going on 
both inside and outside their realm. 

Establishing a merchant trade within Spider- 
haunt and specializing in the sale of spider goods 
seemed the most logical way to accomplish this. 
Contact with traders and citizens from far beyond 
the woods increases the chances of hearing about 
something amiss elsewhere, Telimas believes. 


C. Stone Wells: The village's entire water supply is 
provided by these rough stone wells. The surface of 
the water is about 20 feet down, and the reservoir of 
water is approximately 10 feet deep. 

D. Telimas's Home: The only home in the village 
that has a wooden porch, the priest's home is cozy and 
comfortable. He lives here alone. 

E. General Store: This is the largest building in town, 
and a cursory inspection reveals that it is probably the 
sturdiest. A stone veranda hugs the building on two 
sides, and rough-hewn chairs are strewn about it. Two 
or three older gnome gentlemen are lounging here, 
trading stories and whiling away the day. They call a 
friendly greeting to anyone entering the store. 

The trading post carries a dizzying array of items; 
anything listed in the Equipment section of the 
Player's Handbook except animals can be found here. 



11 












































































































































































































































































































Rilia, the proprietor, is happy to sell to the PCs, but 
much of what she stocks in the way of clothing and 
armor is gnome sized. Poison is not available, and if 
anyone asks why, she explains that the last caravan 
through town bought all she had. 

U. Undead Gathering Point: Gothyl gathers her 
undead minions here before the attack (see the Fear 
ful Night section below). 

FedtifuL Night 

nother force knows of the old man's dreams as 
well, and she's not very happy about them. 
Gothyl would prefer to kill Telimas this night, as she 
does not want anyone meddling in her plans. 

Just after second watch, the town is attacked by a 
host of undead. Bonebats strike guards or PCs outside 
Telimas's home. None of the undead can be turned; 
they're controlled by Gothyl. 

If the PCs slept at Telimas's, read the following: 


Sounds of screaming permeate your sleep, and you 
immediately jerk fully awake. The screams are 
coming from right outside the door, and you fear 
the watch is under attack. 


If the characters decided to sleep in the warehouse, 
read the following: 


Someone is screaming in your dream, and you slowly 
awaken to realize that it is no dream -real shrieks 
ring from the courtyard near Telimas's house. 


Skeletons (6): Int non; AL N; AC 7; MV 12; 
HD 1; h P 6 each; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; 
SD immune to sleep, charm, hold, fear and cold- 
related spells, edged and piercing weapons inflict 
half damage; SZ M; ML n/ a; XP 65 each. 

Bonebats (2): Int low; AL NE; AC 7; MV 3, FI 
18(C); HD 4; hp 25, 20; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 
2d4; SA paralyzation; SD immune to sleep, charm, 
hold, and fear- related spells, edged and piercing 
weapons inflict half damage; SZ ML n/a; XP 975. 


Ghouls (2): Int low; AL CE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 2; 

hp 14, 10; THACO 19; #AT 3; Dmg l-3/l-3/ld6; 

SA paralyzation; SD immune to sleep and charm 

spells; SZ M; ML n/a; XP 175. 

Note to DM: The actions below should occur in 
the order in which they appear. There can be minor 
adjustments made to specific scenarios, but the overall 
attack should play out as written. 

The skeletons arrive at Telimas's home and attempt 
to break through the door. The bonebats continue to 
attack anyone outside the home. 

After the skeletons begin their assault, the ghouls 
arrive and stop within 20 feet of the door. It should be 
clear at this point that the creatures are after Telimas. 
Telimas himself opens the door, unless the skeletons 
are already inside. In this case, he's fighting for his life. 
One skeleton grabs Telimas's holy symbol from his 
grasp and hurls it across the room. 

Now it is a battle to save Telimas from the hands 
of the undead. If the old priest manages to get out 
side, one of the bonebats attacks him. Madam fights 
alongside the priest and does not retreat, no matter 
what the odds. However, Madarn needs to live in 
order to guide the characters to Gothyl's tower, so 
he should either ultimately defeat or escape the 
undead. 

Gothyl does not personally interfere in the battle. 
She can afford to lose these undead if she must and 
doesn't want the PCs to see her and ruin her carefully 
constructed plans. Gothyl has every intention of 
killing the priest -but if it isn't done now, she'll have 
time for it later. 

AfTeRmaTb 

Dreams 

hen the battle is over and the PCs retire, they 
all have another dream vision. Characters can 
avoid the dream by not sleeping, but since they don't 
know it's about to happen, they have no reason to 
deprive themselves of sleep. 

Madarn will not leave until morning, and if the 
characters attempt to leave the village before dawn 
without him, they are attacked by spiders until they 
are driven back to the village. 
















The heavy smells of the forest linger about as you 
make your way along a narrow silver path that 
leads further into the dark night. Hellish pinpoints 
of blood-crimson light stare from the shadows, 
watching your every move. 

The trail whisks from beneath your feet and the 
gray silhouette of the ruined tower stands before 
you. Its cracked walls and moss-covered stones 
give testament as to the amount of time this struc 
ture has stood in disrepair. 

"No!" a male voice suddenly cries. The plea 
cuts through the still night air and echoes in the 
clearing. "I . . .will . . . not . . . tell . . . you." The 
voice falters as if the person speaking were in great 
pain. Ragged breaths reverberate on the stone 
walls, and for one awful moment it seems as if it is 
your breathing that's pounding around you. 

Again the ground passes beneath your feet and 
you find yourself in the ruined hallway of this 
once-fine tower. 

The voice continues to fill your mind. At times 
it mutters incoherently; in the next second a river 
of information flows clearly into your mind: words 
like Dagger Falls, Silver Morn, Elminster, and Zhentil 
Keep echo eerily in the dreamscape. 

Then there are the horrible screams. You are pro 
pelled down the hall toward the sound. The sobs 
wrench your heart with their despair and impale 
themselves into your mind with their agony. Then 
the hallway ends, opening into a vast chamber of . . . 

Sunlight burns your eyes as it fills your sleeping 
chamber. You can hear the bustling of the forest 
gnomes outside. Daybreak has arrived. 


regarded highly by the gnomes. 

If Telimas survived the night, he is here to wish the 
PCs good fortune on their journey to the tower. 
Telimas insists that the PCs complete their quest, 
regardless of the state of the village and its inhabitants 
in the aftermath of the undeads' attack. 

As the characters prepare to leave, Madarn tells 
them that they can't take their horses through the 
dense, rough area of the Lakeside Trail. Mounts can be 
left in the village until the party returns. 

Random encounters should be checked once every 
eight hours of travel. 

E. MeRcbawTs' 
CaUdNig 

Low-hanging branches obscure the path, and vir 
tually all attempts to obtain a clear line of sight 
along the trail are futile. The sky is blocked by the 
webwork of branches, vines, and leaves overhead. 

The path is nearly 10 feet wide, and numerous 
ruts mark the passage of wagons. 


This trail once stretched south to tie into the 
Northride, but has since fallen into disrepair. Charac 
ters who possess a tracking proficiency or similar abil 
ity detect a trail that continues south at the junction 
of the Lakeside Trail. 

F. l<\kes)&e TraHL 


Gothyl is using Randal's suffering as bait to get the 
PCs to the tower more quickly. When the characters 
awake, each PC makes a Wisdom check. Anyone who 
fails experiences anxious, unsettling feelings that 
make him or her impatient to get to the tower. 

Depending on the outcome of last night's events, 
the gnomes are either congratulating the PCs for their 
heroic battle or mourning the loss of Telimas. 

Madarn is here as well, bandaged but otherwise 
alive and well. He's ready to leave the village as soon 
as the PCs are prepared to be on their way. If Telimas 
is dead, Madarn asks a PC priest to perform the burial 
ceremony, and the character should be encouraged to 
accept. If the ceremony is performed, the party is 


I t's roughly 10 miles from the start of the trail to 
the shores of Lake Melishar, and the journey to 
the lake takes almost the entire day. Between the 
rough terrain and the slow pace of Madarn, it is quite 
a day. 


The break from the Merchants' Calling to this lit 
tle side trail has made travel an interesting chal 
lenge. Madarn is constantly disappearing behind 
this branch or that rock. At times he suddenly 
steps from behind the party before reappearing in 
front again. His vast amusement as he dances 
around your group is quite irritating. 



14 


_ 














The trail is only a few feet wide here. Thick 
roots seem to reach out to trip you from time to 
time as branches slap across your face. 


G. Lake MeUsfaaR 

T he lake, named after an elven ranger who 
roamed these woods more than a hundred years 
ago, is clear and cool. Characters arrive here at sunset, 
as dusk settles over the forest. 


The trail winds around a vast expanse of water, 
and the silver glow of the half moon reflects softly 
off its surface. Familiar animal tracks -including 
raccoon, deer, and rabbit -can be seen at the 
water's edge. A familiar plop from the water lets 
you know that the lake is teeming with fish. A few 
hundred feet in front of you stands a small shack. 

Madarn quickly opens his pack and takes out a 
torch. In a few moments, it burns brightly. 

"When I was a youngster, I learned to approach 
Nature's Inn with more respect for the wildlife," he 
says. "I still don't know who was more scared -me 
or that big bear." 

Chuckling softly again, the gnome carefully 
pushes open the door with his foot, brandishing 
the torch like a holy symbol. "Fortunately, she 
wasn't very hungry." 


The obnoxious sound is coming from two huge 8-foot- 
tall creatures you see at the shore. They are wearing 
hides and wielding spears; their guttural singing 
echoes across the still water. Stumbling along and flail 
ing their weapons madly, these fierce humanoids con 
tinue their roundabout journey toward Nature's Inn. 

Every few moments the creatures stop and smell 
the air, gazing and pointing in the direction of the 
shack. They sway whenever they stand still. 


These two fellows wandered down from the 
Desertsmouth Mountains. Their orders are to search 
the lake area and bring back anything interesting they 
find. One thing they probably won't report finding is 
the keg of ale they recently finished off. 

If Madarn wakes up, he insists that the party attack 
these evil creatures. It's clear he has some bitter mem 
ories concerning ogres. 

Half-Ogres (2): Int semi; AL CE; AC 5; MV 12; 
HD 2 + 6; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4 (by 
weapon); SZ L; ML 12; XP 270. Each carries a 
broadsword, a spear, and a pouch containing 12 
gp and ld4 gems worth 50 gp each. 

After two rounds of combat, the alcohol surges 
through the ogres' systems, causing a -1 penalty on all 
attack, damage, and saving throw rolls. 


H. The HtuoTed 


Nature's Inn is a small cabin nestled against the 
shore of the lake. Characters who examine the door 
see it's been rehung quite a few times. Firewood is 
stacked outside. 

If asked, Madarn admits that he comes here and 
spends a few days fishing and relaxing. He hasn't 
seen many spiders, and he speculates they don't like 
the light from the open sky. He'll suggest to the char 
acters that they spend the night here. If they do, the 
evening passes uneventfully until the end of the first 
watch. 

The guards hear loud and raucous singing coming 
from somewhere outside. A die roll of 1 on a d6 wakes 
a sleeping character. If anyone awakens and investi 
gates, read the following: 


s characters pass the lake and continue west 
ward, Madarn begins acting oddly. He stops 
every now and again and carefully examines the forest 
floor. After each examination, he mumbles softly to 
himself and moves on. 

A PC ranger or any character who makes a success 
ful tracking proficiency check notices what he's con 
cerned about: large paw marks in the forest floor. 

After 2d4 more checks, Madarn stops and addresses 
the party: 


"I'd hoped that I was wrong, but it now appears 
that my suspicions were correct. We're being fol 
lowed," the gnome states flatly, letting out a heavy 
sigh. "A leopard, and a pretty big one, too." 






15 














"She's been following us for the last mile or so/' 
he continues, "moving ahead to let me find her 
trail and then backtracking behind us." Shaking 
his head sadly, he presses on. 

"She thinks we're hunters," he says, gazing uneasily 
at the forest around him. "I'll venture a bet that the 
cat's going to attack us before we see another day." 


Madarn is against killing the big cat, period. "Too 
few left in the woods as it is now," he'll argue darkly. 

It's important that the characters understand 
Madam's convictions against killing the leopards. The 
gnome explains that he would never hunt an animal 
species to extinction, nor does he kill females with 
young (except spiders, he grudgingly admits). 

Madarn asks the spellcasters in the party to produce 
something dramatic - such as fire -to repel the cat. If 
no one agrees at first, he will become persistent, 
almost demanding. If any PC refuses or becomes con 
frontational, Madarn will argue forcefully in favor of 
not searching for or attacking the cats. 

If no one attempts to scare the cats away, the leop 
ards attack sometime before the PCs reach the tower. 


Leopards (2): Int semi-; AL N; AC 6; MV 15; 
HD 3+2; hp 22, 19; THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg 
Id3/ld3/ld6; SA rear claws for Id4/ld4 rolls; SD 
surprised only on a 1; ML 9; SZ M; XP 270. 

If characters decide to frighten the cats rather than 
kill them outright, the leopards roll a morale check to 
determine whether they flee. If the PCs use torches, 
bonfires, or lanterns to scare the cats there is a -1 
modifier on the roll. A fireball or other fire-based spell 
puts a -6 modifier on the roll. 

If the PCs kill the creatures, Madarn points the 
party in the general direction of the tower and leaves 
in disgust. The party must return to Stormpemhauder 
and convince Madarn to rejoin it before he agrees to 
help the PCs again. Even if they do this, there is only 
a 20% chance Madarn agrees. 

If the characters help Madarn scare the cats, the 
gnome is the PCs' friend for life. 

The reward for successfully scaring away the leop 
ards is 1,500 experience points. If the PCs kill the ani 
mals, only 540 experience points are awarded. 





16 

















I. Ru'ito&d Touuerz 


The forest widens into a large clearing of rolling 
grass and broken rocks. The meadow gently slopes 
upward, and resting at its crest is the tower from 
your dream visions. 

The sun is almost gone now, and its final rays 
illuminate the edges of the broken structure in a 
silhouette of crimson and purple. Soon the moon 
will bathe the field in its own radiance. 


The PCs have seen these images in their dreams, 
and the closer they get to the tower, the more appre 
hension they're subject to. 

Since it should be near dark when the PCs get to 
this point, Madarn recommends waiting until morning 
to explore the tower. "Anything that wants to see us 
can come out and introduce itself!" he insists. 

The tower has a powerful sleep spell radiating from 
it. If the PCs continue forward, they must make a sav 
ing throw vs. spell each round or fall asleep. Once 
asleep, Gothyl sends them another dream. 


The black shadow of the granite tower envelops 
the ground. Scrub brush and broken rock are 
strewn about. Figures go into and out of the tower. 

The ground moves beneath your feet and you 
find yourself standing near a thin man with a flow 
ing white beard and red robes. Smoke rings dis 
solve nearby, and his pipe hovers a few feet away. 

"That is the last," states a young man in chain 
mail, who suddenly appears at your elbow. He 
motions toward a figure walking away from the 
tower. "We have what we came for, Elminster." 

"Aye, lad. Stand back now and let me work 
some Art," states the red-robed man. He takes one 
final lazy puff from his pipe, then it vanishes. 

The old man gazes into the darkened tower. His 
hands weave to and fro, and a ball of silver light 
suddenly appears and gets brighter. In a matter of 
moments, the light reaches a blazing intensity. 

When the man lets his arms down, a stream of 
silvery light shoots forth from the ball and a dull 
roar comes from within the tower. The once- 
smooth tower walls split and crumble. 


Your feet again propel you forward, this time 
toward the dark opening of the tower. Gone are 
the explosions of silver magic and the man in the 
red robes. A now-familiar voice greets you. 

"I am . . . Randal Morn," the voice resounds. "I 
have the . . . strength to defeat . . . this . . . evil 
. . . magic." Suddenly you are at the entrance to a 
vast, ruined chamber. Stone blocks are scattered 
around, and the entire room is filled with rubble. 

Inside a golden sphere of energy is the outline 
of a writhing man. As you watch, streaks of green 
energy race along the sphere's surface, and the man 
within cries out in pain yet again. 

Silence descends, drowning out light and sound. 


The PCs awake to the dim light of dawn. Madarn 
sat watch the entire night, and his gnomish figure 
droops with fatigue. When all the PCs are awake, the 
gnome gives each one a leaf and instructs the party to 
chew on them. He explains that he found and har 
vested them throughout the night. 

The taste of the leaves are horribly bitter, and they 
burn like hot peppers as they're chewed. "If that tower 
puts you to sleep," Madarn says, "this nettle will wake 
you right back up!" 

Madarn insists on staying outside when they enter 
the tower. If the PCs press the matter, Madarn admits 
that Telimas told him that he must not interfere in 
their quest. He moves the PCs' spare equipment and 
other supplies to a concealed position at the edge of 
the clearing and settles down to wait. 

As the gnome promised, the nettle does prove 
potent enough to counteract the tower's sleep effect. 
The heroes feel the magic begin to cloud their 
minds, but the burning of the leaves cuts through 
the haze and keeps them awake, albeit sleepy. Once 
the PCs draw within 10 feet, the sleep effect 
abruptly ends. 














D^eam TotueR 



he journey to the tower entrance is fairly easy. Some characters 
might be unnerved, however, since anyone watching from either 
the edge of the clearing or inside the tower can easily see the 
group's approach. The structure is deserted; Gothyl wants the PCs 
as strong as possible so that her apprentices do not start at a disad 
vantage. If random encounters are incorporated in the tower, the PCs should have 
an opportunity to rest and regain spells before the final confrontation inside. 

The Zhent forces, led by Ilthond, are also on their way to the tower. They've 
deduced that the PCs are headed for Randal, so they've been secretly trailing the 
party. Gothyl is fully aware that other forces are coming toward her tower. 


kppn.oxdh 

T he last hundred feet to the tower entrance is littered with boulders and tower 
rubble. There is no sign of life in the area. 


The closer you come to the tower, the more grim the landscape becomes. Grass 
and shrubs fade into bleak patches of ragweed and blackened plates of stone. 

Many of the larger boulders are covered with some kind of green moss, 
which glistens faintly with moisture in the early light. 

The size and strength of the tower seems pale in comparison to your dream 
vision of it. Sections of rock, some many feet thick, attest to its former 
strength. Even now the parapets of the tower stretch 45 feet high overhead, 
their twisted and broken fingers reaching for the sky. 

Not too far away, the dark entrance to the tower is visible. 


Characters who attempt to fly, climb, or otherwise maneuver to the top of the 
tower discover that access down is stopped by a stairwell full of rock. 

1. EwTRAMce 


Nothing remains of the doors that once stood here, other than a pair of twisted 
hinges long since rusted into silence by the elements. 

A silver etching is carved into the moldy stone to the left side of the door. 
You can barely make out the outline of a skeleton wielding a long sword. 


Characters cannot activate the guardian through physical searching. A detect 
magic does not reveal its presence, though detect undead or similar magic reveals the 
skeleton. If the PCs attack the silver etching, the creature attacks. 



18 














































Giant Skeleton (1): Int non; AL N; AC 4; 
MV 12; HD 4+4; HP 26; THACO 15; #AT 1; 
Dmg ldl2; SD immune to sleep, charm, hold, 
similar mind-effecting spells, and all fire-based 
attacks, suffer half damage from cold-related 
spells; SA can hurl an 8d6 fireball once per 
hour; SZ L; ML 20; XP 975. 

Gothyl does not want either the skeleton or the 
PCs destroyed. After the third round of combat, read 
the following: 


The skeleton reaches into its chest cavity, pulls out 
a fireball, and hurls it toward the edge of the clear 
ing-straight into a large group of Zhents that 
emerge from the forest at that moment. The skele 
ton then fades back into the door as the fireball 
hits the soldiers. 

Chaos erupts in the Zhent group. Screaming 
horses rear uncontrollably, and riders, supplies, and 
weapons fly in all directions. The group immedi 
ately retreats into the forest. 


Secret doors and ceiling panels in the hall are held 
fast by the undead hidden behind them. Should the 
PCs find these secret doors, they see that the bubbling 
effect of the walls and ceiling has apparently jammed 
these doors completely shut. If the characters attempt 
to open them, it takes 2d4 hours to chip away enough 
rock to get to them. There are no undead behind the 
door leading to Area 3. 

Each lettered area on the map contains the corre 
sponding creatures: 

2A. Animal Skeletons, Spiders (16): Int non; 
AL N; AC 8; MV 6; HD 1-1; hp 7x4, 6x4, 5x4, 
4x4; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; SD immune 
to sleep, charm, hold, cold and mind-effecting 
attacks, edged and piercing weapons inflict half 
damage; SZ S; ML n/ a; XP 65. 

2B. Zombies (6): Int non; AL N; AC 8; MV 6; 
HD 2; h P 15, 13x3, 12, 9; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld8; immune to sleep, charm, hold, death 
magic, poisons and cold-related spells; SZ M; ML 
n/a; XP 65. 


1. Sh&bouj Hall 


The rubble-strewn corridor before you is filled with 
rocks of varying size and shape. Most of them look 
nearly volcanic, with their surfaces bubbled and 
distorted by some tremendous force. 

The walls have the same texture as the other 
rocks, but the floor appears to be made from 
cracked granite and small deposits of rose quartz. 


The walls were once devices that looked into the 
Demiplane of Shadow, and they were constantly acti 
vated. The evil that roamed the plane could look 
through as well, and many shadows came into the hall. 


At the far end of the corridor, rubble-choked stair 
wells lead both up and down. The wall facing the 
corridor contains a once-secret door, now partially 
held open by the surrounding debris. 


2C. Ghouls (2): Int low; AL CE; AC 6; MV 9; 
HD 2; hp 14, 10; THACO 19; #AT 3; Dmg 
l-3/l-3/ld6; SA paralyzation; SZ M; ML n/a; XP 
175. 

5. H)bben HaLL 


A 10-foot-wide passage that leads further into the 
tower disappears into the darkness before you. 
Unlike the first hall, the walls here are covered in 
mystic, painted symbols. Some symbols are nearly 
faded out of existence, while others are still bright. 

Nearly 20 feet down the corridor is the skeleton 
of a human. It is impaled on three spears, illustrat 
ing the viciousness of his death. 

In the gloom beyond you see nothing. 


This hall once led to Gothyl's audience chamber. 
Halfway down the hall was a trap door she used to dis 
patch her enemies. It dropped them onto an oil- 
coated slide, which deposited them in her laboratory. 

Elminster destroyed the chamber and blew the door 
from the floor trap, but Gothyl has hidden them both 



19 













with a powerful illusion. Characters who detect the 
illusion see the rubble as well as the open trap door 
that leads downward. The symbols can be anything, 
preferably something of wizardly origin. 

If the trap door is not detected, the first PC to 
reach it falls in. PCs who try to grab hold of something 
still fall, as everything is too slick to hang on to. 
Razors built into the side of the trap do not harm a PC 
but sever ropes thrown over the side and pulled up. 


characters are automatically propelled down, while 
the one that hit from behind has a 50% chance of 
stopping. Stuck PCs suffer 1-2 points of damage. 

PCs holding anything must make a successful Dex 
terity check in order to hang onto them. If not, their 
items arrive ld4 rounds behind them. 

5. Hotb)hog Pew 


Suddenly, [lead character's name] disappears into 
the floor below. After the initial scream, you hear a 
loud 'thump' followed by scraping sounds that 
gradually fade into nothing. 

The corridor suddenly seems to melt away, and 
the hall takes on a markedly different appearance. 
The wall where the symbols and glyphs were is 
now blank; all you see now is more bubbled rock. 
A six-foot circular section of the floor is gone. 

As soon as the illusion fades, you hear sounds of 
battle coming from behind you. 


The PCs can look for other exits, but this is the 
only way out of the room and down to the laboratory. 

4. Slide Rules 


Helms, gauntlets, rings, and belt buckles create a 
shower of sparks as you tumble down the slick 
tube. From time to time you recognize globes of 
continual light overhead as you race past them. 
Soon you are completely disoriented; all you know 
is that the tunnel never seems to end. 

Unlike other areas of the tower, the walls of the 
slide are smooth, seemingly unaffected by the bub 
bled effect that seems so commonplace above. 


The slide is an enclosed tube covered in a thin 
coating of oil. Travel down the slide takes ld4 rounds. 
The oil is not dangerous, but it coats the PC's clothing. 
There is a 75% chance the oil ruins any cloth items 
the characters might be wearing or carrying. 

There is a 25% chance that any PC slows down 
enough to stop, since the oil has worn off in places. If 
the character does stop, there is nothing the PC can 
grab to keep from falling farther. PCs struck by other 


You tumble head over heels into a large room 
before crashing against a wall. Soon the chamber 
is filled with a pile of flailing bodies, weapons, and 
pieces of armor. When your head clears and every 
one is untangled from the jumble, you see that the 
chamber was once a prison cell. Rusted iron bars 
surround the cage -except for a 6-foot-wide sec 
tion that opens into a larger area. 


Characters who make a successful Intelligence 
check realize they were affected by a feather fall spell 
that kept them from being injured when they hit the 
stone floor of the cell. 

After the party has been in the cell ld6 rounds, the 
PCs hear the sounds of the Zhents as they fight their 
way past the undead and begin their own journey 
down the slide. To spur the PCs on, the DM should 
indicate that the Zhents seem to be pushing the fight 
to the top of the slide. However, the Zhents should 
not be brought into the action until it is convenient. 

There is nothing the PCs can use to lock the 
Zhents inside the cell. Any fighter with 17 or greater 
Strength can destroy the rusted metal with a few 
kicks. 

6. The Lab 


Huge chunks of fallen rock create a maze within 
the room. The floor, dirt-covered and cracked from 
the fallen rock, nevertheless seems more polished 
here than elsewhere in the tower. 

Above, you see rubble from the collapsed ceil 
ing has formed a few different passages that you 
could explore further. An emerald-gray glow 
emanates from behind rocks to the southwest. 


20 


















7. The SummowiNjg 
ChambeR 

Flickering emerald light comes from a huge globe 
of magical energy that pulses before you. The 
shadowy figure of a humanoid is outlined within. 
The remainder of the chamber is dark. 


Any characters with observation proficiency notice 
the remains of a conjuring circle beneath the debris. A 
wizard who rolls a successful Intelligence check deter 
mines the same thing. The magic that destroyed the 
tower also damaged the conjuring circle, so Gothyl 
cannot attempt extraplanar summons from here. 

When the PC carrying the Sword of the Dales comes 
within 10 feet of the globe, Gothyl emerges and pre 
tends to be the spirit trapped within the Sword. 


The Sword of the Dales begins to blaze and burn, 
illuminating the chamber with piercing blue light. 
A wispy vapor trails from the sword, and it slowly 
takes the shape of a human female. 

She is stunningly beautiful. The cowl of her 
pearly white robe is pulled back to reveal her rich 
black hair. A ruby necklace adorns her neck, and 
each of her slim fingers is encircled by a fine ring. 

"Greetings, adventurers. 1 am Hedistrin, the 
spirit bound to the Sword of the Dales." Her 
melodic voice fills the chamber. 

"My spirit was joined to the Sword by Shraevyn 
the weapons-mage a very long time ago," she 
states, her arms spreading wide. "My purpose is to 
make sure the rightful wielder of the weapon" - 
she points to the globe- "possesses the icon of his 
heritage." 

In a strong voice she proclaims, "Randal Morn 
is held prisoner within that magical bubble. 

"I know very little of the wizards that 
even now approach this place," she continues, 
"but I fear that they are the ones responsible for 
this deadly game we find ourselves playing. They 
torture Randal and send his dreams to you, making 
you chase his shadow at night even as you search 
for his body by day." 


If the PCs have not yet heard the Zhents approach 
at this time, roll ld6 for each character. On a roll of 1, 
the PC hears scraping sounds coming from the chute. 
The figure continues to speak, regardless of how the 
PCs react to the oncoming force. 


"I have seen the wizards wrap Randal within this 
spell," she continues. "His captivity is tied with skele 
tons in a nearby chamber. I fear that the evil magi 
cians who approach are trying to duplicate Randal's 
appearance, in order to send him back to his people 
as a twisted puppet." Her voice lifts in defiant anger. 

"Across the lands and rivers below," she states, her 
eyes glancing to Randal Morn. "I heard one of the 
wizards say that this phrase would release Randal 
from his entrapment, but someone must touch the 
skulls of the skeletons nearby as the phrase is spo 
ken. This will purge his presence from them." 

A Zhent wizard suddenly appears in the cell, 
careening off the floor with a dull thud as he flails 
about to grab the rusted metal bars. "They are 
here!" he cries, jumping up and helping another 
wizard to his feet. "We have them!" 

"Quickly," Hedistrin cries, "run along the west 
wall and see if there is another chamber! It may be 
our only chance!" 


No matter what the PCs do, Gothyl does not drop 
her guise as a bound spirit. She makes certain that she 
does not become angry or threaten the PCs. She needs 
them to complete this task on their own. 

Under no circumstances does Hedistrin attack 
the PCs, and she uses her non-detection ability 
whenever she speaks to them. Should the PCs 
attack her, she lets the party believe she has been 
killed. She cries in pain as they strike her, then 
slowly fades away. 

Gothyl, Arch-shadow: Int supra; AL CE; AC 6; 
MV 9; HD 8+; hp 47; THACO 12; #AT 1; Drng 
ld4+l; SA energy drain, spells; SD magical weapons 
needed to hit; immune to sleep, charm, death, life-level 
loss, enfeeblement; SZ M; ML 19; XP 4,500. 

The PCs have two rounds to react before the 
Zhents attack. Unless the PCs interfered in the battle 
in the hallway, the Zhents come through the portal in 
the following order: 





21 












Zhent Wizards, 3rd-level wizards (6): AL LE; 

AC 8; MV 12; hp 12, 10x2, 9x3; THACO 20; 
#AT 1; Dmg by weapon type; ML 14; XP 175 
each. One carries a staff +1, another 12 darts +1; 
together there are two potions of sweetzvater and 
one potion of extra-healing; two bracers of defense 
AC 8; each has two lst-level and one 2nd-level 
spell, chosen by the DM. 

Zhent Veteran Soldiers (3): 2nd-level human 
fighters; AL LE; AC 5; MV 12; hp 9(16), 8(14), 
6(10); THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type; 
ML 11; XP 65. Each has chain mail, a long sword, 
a light crossbow, two daggers, and a small sack 
containing 50 gp. 

Ilthond, 7th-level wizard: AL NE; AC 2; MV 
12; hp 23; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon 
type; S 9; D 9; C 12; I 17; W 16; CH 8; XP 3,000; 
bracers of defense AC 2, ring of telekinesis (100 lb. 
weight), dagger +2, 17 darts +2, teleport ring (see 
page 30) wand of lightning (22 charges). 

Spells: 1st level: feather fall, magic missile, shield, 
shocking grasp. 2nd level: invisibility, mirror image, 
web. 3rd level: Melf's minute meteors, protection 
from normal missiles. 4th level: stoneskin (already 
cast; protects Ilthond from five attacks). 


with fists. If the globe fails a saving throw vs. crushing 
blow (with a +3 bonus; the globe needs a 17 or higher 
to resist the shattering attempt), it instantly shatters 
into millions of green shards and Randal immediately 
falls to the ground, unconscious. 

Hedistrin becomes frantic if the PCs do this. She 
cries out, insisting that they must release Randal's 
mind from the skeletons in the nearby room before his 
body can be recovered. 

P. Postd Mem onies 


Sunk into the stone floor of the chamber is a 20- 
foot circular pool about two thirds full of water. 
The surface is slimy with a dark, moldy substance. 


This once served as a combination scrying pool and 
freshwater source for the lab. Now, however, the water 
is mold covered and dangerous to drink. 

PCs who ingest even a small amount of the water 
must roll a successful saving throw vs. poison or be 
nauseated for 5d4 rounds. The character suffers -2 
penalties on all attack rolls, saving throw rolls, and 
ability checks until the sickness passes. 


8 . RawdaL Morn) 


The huge, glasslike globe glows with a sickening 
green light. It spins slowly, so slowly that at first 
you don't notice the movement. As you move 
closer, the form inside becomes clear and sharp, 
almost as if the surface of the globe serves as a 
magnifying glass of sorts. 

A man is suspended spread-eagle within the 
globe. His clothing is torn and he wears no shoes 
or armor. He writhes against unseen bonds, but it 
is clear that his strength is ebbing. The look on his 
face is horrifying -his eyes are wide open, and his 
mouth moves in silent screams. 


Trapped within the dreamglobe is Randal Morn, the 
rightful ruler of Daggerdale. 

Randal's prison can be broken if a PC either strikes 
the globe with a weapon or pounds on it forcefully 


1 0. CtecLe of 
DarIcni ess 

You finally spot a door in the wall and scramble 
through it. The short hallway spills into a large, 
damp room. Six rocklike tables fill the chamber, 
and a skeleton lies on each one. 

The faint green glow that envelops every skele 
ton originates from the pendants that hang around 
each of their bony necks. 


The PCs can hear the footsteps of the Zhents run 
ning toward them. If the PCs delay too long, the 
Zhents enter the chamber on the heels of the party. 

Each pendant is a small crystal globe with a liquid 
green center. They are the material components for 
the spell Gothyl cast many years ago to imprison her 
apprentices. The necklaces are worth 250 gp each. 


22 

















Touoh)Ng The Skulls 

Each character who touches any skull is immediately 
attacked with magic similar to that of magic jar. If the 
PC fails a saving throw vs. spell (at +2), he or she 
fights against the power of the spell for ld4 rounds. 
During this time, the PC can physically attack the 
skull with a -2 penalty on attack rolls. If the skull is 
destroyed, the character under attack is stunned for 
one round. Each skull is AC 5 and has 12 hit points. 

If a PC both fails the saving throw and does not 
destroy the skull, his or her body becomes possessed by 
the spirit of the evil apprentice and the character's 
spirit becomes trapped within the skull. 

The body of the possessed PC immediately attacks 
the nearest Zhent. After the Zhents are finished off, 
the possessed PC turns on fellow PCs. 

Gothyl does not let a possessed character kill 
another PC. Any PCs who are so attacked fall uncon 
scious when they reach 0 hit points. This lasts as long 
as any skulls containing spirits remain intact. 

If the Zhent wizards see the PCs touching the 
skulls, the wizards try to destroy the skulls. If the wiz 
ards are successful, see Destroying the Skulls below. 


Possessed creatures are distinguishable from non- 
possessed creatures by their glowing red eyes and occa 
sional facial tic. After 24 hours, the red eyes fade, but 
the physical tic remains for ld4 months. 

I WowT Touch ttl 

If PCs don't touch the skulls, read the following: 


The Zhents immediately rush in, completely 
ignoring your group. It's almost as if they don't 
even notice anyone else is in the room. Each of 
them runs to a skeleton and frantically puts both 
hands on a skull. They all begin uttering the 
phrase you recognize as the one Hedistrin told you 
and your companions. 

Suddenly their chants garble into confused 
shouts and screams. Some of the Zhents appear 
unable to release their skulls and stand transfixed, 
the words dying on their lips as their eyes glaze 
over and roll upward. The green glow surrounding 
those skeletons begins to move and swirl around 
the trapped Zhents. 



23 



























Others wrench free, draw their weapons, and 
hit the skulls with crushing blows. 


The Zhents are attacked by the spirits of Gothyl's 
apprentices. Two mages manage to destroy the skulls 
attacking them, and four become possessed. At this 
point, the unpossessed Zhents notice the PCs and 
attack. The possessed Zhents attack the party as well. 

Ilthond does not touch a skull. He destroys his pos 
sessed colleagues with his wand of lightning as soon as 
he sees they are doomed. If he can catch a PC in the 
area of effect, so much the better, but his first priority 
is to kill possessed mages. 

D&sTrzoy'ibjg the Skulls 

If a skull is destroyed while a victim is possessed, the 
possessed character immediately makes a system shock 
roll. If successful, the PCs spirit is restored to his or 
her body, which is automatically struck unconscious 
for ld4 turns. If the system shock fails, both the spirit 
of the apprentice and the character are killed. 

The spirit of the evil apprentice bonds with its new 
body after one day. If the skull is destroyed more than 
24 hours after the PC's body is possessed, that charac 
ter's spirit is destroyed. The body remains under the 
control of the apprentice. 

11. Quick Exit? 


Misty vapors swirl and blow around an ancient 
looking stone archway leading to what appears to 
be a passage to the north. Fog dances and writhes 
about the frame, and at times you think you see 
colored light through the mist. The barrier offers 
no clue to the final destination of the hallway 
beyond other than the four strange symbols that 
glow red above the archway. 


This mystical arch was Gothyl's emergency exit 
from the lab. It teleports anyone who steps through it 
to the secret door on the east end of Area 2. 

Ilthond and the others do not willingly go through 
the portal. Ilthond prefers using his own magic to get 
away, and the other wizards are too afraid of the arch 
way to attempt to escape through it. The Zhent fight 


ers have no qualms about running through it once 
they've been abandoned by Ilthond, however. 

Characters with language proficiency or wizards 
with Intelligence above 14 can read the red symbols. 
In common, they spell E-X-I-T. 

BmaL BatTte 

T his encounter occurs once Gothyl's apprentices 
are taken care of and the PCs return to the 
dreamglobe. The following narration may be altered to 
reflect the previous events. 


A slightly hunchbacked, black-haired man in flow 
ing robes stands near the magical force containing 
Randal Morn. His green eyes shoot a hateful glare 
toward you as he slowly raises his skeletal hand 
clenched in a fist. 

With a howl, the wizard's hand comes down full 
force on the magical prison, and you hear the 
screaming shatter of glass. Thousands of emerald 
shards smash on the stone, and Randal Morn, 
gasping and unconscious, pitches forward onto the 
floor. Suddenly, unseen magic lifts his limp form, 
propels it through the air, and lowers it onto the 
shoulders of the wizard. 

Ilthond then faces the group and slowly, with 
menace dripping from every word, begins to speak. 


The wizard now utters the name of each character. 
He wants to instill as much fear into the PCs as he 
can, so after each name he reveals something about 
that person. This piece of information should be 
something that few in the party know and that can 
create terror in the PC. After muttering their names, 
he continues: 


"Fools!" he cries out. "You truly think you can 
stand against the Zhentarim! Each of you will 
fall -at our whim!" He points the first finger of 
his bony left hand at the Sword of the Dales, and 
only then do you notice the metal ring there. 
Without warning, the Sword jumps from [charac 
ter's name] grasp and flies toward the cackling wiz 
ard's outstretched hand. 


24 



















Ilthond uses the power of his ring of telekinesis to 
take the Sword as well as any skulls the PCs have with 
them. This is automatically successful. Just before the 
Sword reaches the wizard, read the following: 


Blue lightning leaps from the tip of the Sword 
and strikes the wizard in the chest, throwing 
him backward with a powerful blow. What hap 
pens next is stunning: The old man bounces off 
the wall behind him and lands on his feet, 
unhurt. Inhuman snarls fly from his mouth and 
echo off the stone walls. 

The Sword hovers for a moment, then clat 
ters to the stone floor. With another snarl, the 
wizard grabs the skulls and Randal Morn and 
vanishes. 


The lightning bolt is a parting gift from Gothyl. She's 
already lost her apprentices to the Zhent wizard, and 
she has no intention of losing the Sword of the Dales to 
him as well. 

WRapplwg IT Up 

O ,, nee Ilthond leaves, Gothyl/Hedistrin finishes 
her talk with the PCs. Again, she neither 
reveals her true form nor loses her patience with them. 
If the PCs question Hedistrin about her lies concern 
ing the skulls, she claims ignorance. 


"This form takes a great amount of energy to 
sustain, and 1 fear that I will be silent for some 
time to come," she says, gazing toward the far 
wall. 

"I know little of your quest, but I beg you to 
go after Randal Morn and release him," she says 
quietly. She clasps her hands together, then 
looks out at all of you. 

"The skulls Ilthond took with him will be 
used against Randal Morn. I fear that unless we 
stop the wizard soon, he will grow so powerful 
that nothing in the Dales can defeat him." 
Hedistrin slowly continues to fade, her image 
now transparent and ghost-like. 


"You have probably determined most of the 
powers of the Sword of the Dales, but 1 feel I 
should tell you exactly what the Sword can do. 

"It has the ability to part all chains and man 
acles within 30 feet when the wielder utters the 
word merrydale. It is doubly effective against 
magically created creatures such as the darken- 
beasts that attacked as we entered Spider- 
haunt. The blade reflects all polymorph and 
lightning magics back upon the caster of such 
spells." The spirit is now about half her normal 
size, and it is obvious that her power is dimming 
quickly. 

"Come close and allow me to gift you with 
something that you may have need of. It is a 
spell called shadowshield I wish to cast upon each 
of you. Whenever you are attacked physically or 
magically, there is a good chance the spell will 
absorb the wounds meant to injure you. 1 fear 
you will need such assistance to survive the 
coming days." 

A soft light reaches out and touches each of 
you, and then Hedistrin is gone. 


Gothyl wants her apprentices back and she intends 
to use the PCs to get them. As long as the PCs do as 
requested, Gothyl resumes the guise of Hedistrin from 
time to time to recast the shadowshield on them. 

When the PCs exit the tower, read the following: 


The tunnel opens into the bright sunlight, and the 
first thing to greet your eyes is the unmoving and 
bloodied bodies of two more Zhent guards. 

"Been wondering how much longer ya'd be," 
Madarn chuckles as he drags a body off to the side. 
"So, where to next? 

Where to indeed. Gothyl's plans come to a conclu 
sion in the next module. The Return of Randal Morn. 

If the PCs treated Madarn well, he may continue 
adventuring with the party. If Telimas still lives, he 
encourages Madam to join the group and gather infor 
mation about the spider queen. 





25 













AKch-ShA&otx> 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY: 

ORGANIZATION: 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 

Arch-Shadow 

Any 

Very Rare 
Solitary 

Any 

Nil 

Supra-genius 

(19-20) 

c 

Any evil 

Demi-Shade 

Any 

Very Rare 

Solitary 

Any 

Nil 

Supra-genius 

(19-20) 

W 

Any evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

6 

1 

MOVEMENT: 

9 

9 

HIT DICE: 

8+ 

11 + 

THACO: 

12 

9 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

ld4+l 

2d4 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Energy drain 

Energy drain 


Spell use 

Spell use 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Magical weapons +2 or better 


needed to hit 

weapons to hit 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

Nil 

SIZE: 

M (6' tall) 

M (6' tall) 

MORALE: 

Fearless (19-20) Fanatic (17-18) 

XP VALUE: 

4,500 

8,000 


As evil men and women grow older and see their deaths before 
them, many decide to take their chances with becoming a lich. 
Most fail and die. The unlucky few who survive the process but 
fail to achieve lichdom become arch-shadows. 

Arch-shadows resemble ghosts or banshees that wander the 
earth, trying to fulfill their own dark plans. They are brutal and 
unforgiving in their quest to attain a secure existence. 

Although any arch-shadow is usually disguised, in their nat 
ural form they appear as ghastly silhouettes of their original bod 
ies. Piercing blue-white pinpoints of light serve as eyes, their hair 
has become ebony, and their fingernails have turned blue-black. 

After gazing at an arch-shadow in its true form for ld4 rounds, 
creatures see another side of this undead. The skin that covers 
their ghostly bodies becomes withdrawn and tight, and their 
blue-white eyes are tinged with crimson. Their faces are con 
torted in pain and agony. Sages have speculated that this was 
their final appearance before death, but only the arch-shadows 
know for sure. 

Combat: If an arch-shadow initiates combat, it is to allow them a 
chance to achieve demi-shade status. If an arch-shadow is forced 
into a battle in which it has no chance of achieving some goal, it 
fakes its own death and awaits another opportunity. 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



Each blow from an arch-shadow causes 2-5 (ld4+ 1) points of 
cold damage. Creatures immune to cold suffer only ld4 points of 
damage. By force of will, the arch-shadow can also choose to 
drain one life-level from its target, but by doing so it takes the 
chance that its true nature will be revealed. 

Both arch-shadows and demi-shades retain the spellcasting 
abilities they had in life; most undead of this sort are 18th level 
or higher in ability. They can also use the same magical items 
they wielded in life. 

Arch-shadows cannot be destroyed by simple combat, power 
ful magic, or chance. Similar to a lich, their life force is stored in 
a receptacle. This receptacle is always a magical item of moderate 
to great power that is carefully protected. 

A magical weapon of +1 or greater enchantment is required 
to strike the arch-shadow. After being reduced to 0 hit points 
they simply dissolve, drawn back to their magical prison. Both 
arch-shadows and demi-shades are unaffected by natural sunlight. 

As with all undead, arch-shadows are immune to sleep, charm, 
death, life-level loss, enfeeblement and other attacks that affect the 
minds of living creatures. Arch-shadows are turned as wraiths. 

Habitat/Society: Arch-shadows are relentless in the pursuit of 
their independence. Typically, their desire is to achieve demi- 
shade status and live out their existence in the study of new mag 
ics. To this end, they cooperate with adventurers or any other 
creatures that help them accomplish their goal. 

















Unlike the lich, who takes very little interest in the affairs 
of the living, the arch-shadow is most interested in the hap 
penings of the intelligent races. If there is a way to cause 
widespread destruction and fear while in the pursuit of achiev 
ing demi-shade, so much the better. These acts serve only to 
reinforce the fear of the arch-shadow's power. 

Creatures aiding an arch-shadow should expect little more 
than the chance to serve once demi-shade form has been 
achieved. Demi-shades expect loyalty from their subjects, but 
have no honor to offer their followers. 

Ecology: There are no recorded instances of a high-level 
priest or wizard striving to become an arch-shadow on pur 
pose-it is misfortune that leads to their existence. 

During the process of achieving lichdom, the wizard or 
priest creates a special phylactery in which to store his or her 
life force. If this item ruptures during the process, there is a 
5% chance that the wizard or priest becomes an arch-shadow 
instead of being utterly destroyed. 

There has been much speculation concerning the reasons 
behind the phylactery's failure. More often than not, faulty 
construction or some slight error in an incantation causes the 
delicate process to break down 

Once the lich process has failed and the creature has suc 
cessfully made the crossover to arch-shadow status, survival is 
not guaranteed. A system shock roll must be made, with fail 
ure indicating that the arch-shadow is sucked into the Nega 
tive Energy Plane. 

If the roll is successful, the arch-shadow must install his 
life force into a magical item of moderate to great power, such 
as a +3 or better weapon, ring of wizardry, staff of curing, or 
other item of which the experience point value is greater than 
1,500 (no artifacts). These items cannot be owned by the 
arch-shadow or any former henchmen, nor can they be within 
10 miles of the arch-shadow once the attempt to become a 
lich has failed. 

Usually the decision of which magical item to use is made 
for the arch-shadow. He or she is teleported to a random loca 
tion where an item capable of accepting the infusion exists. 
The source of this teleportation is unknown. 

After infusing the item with its life force, the arch-shadow 
has tremendous capabilities regarding the uses of that item. 
The arch-shadow can add additional powers to it, place con 
tingency and other warding magics upon it, and generally 
attempt to twist the magic for specific purposes. 

Adding additional powers to the item may destroy it (and 
thus kill the arch-shadow), so powerful contingencies are 
placed upon it instead. The chance of destroying an item by 
placing additional powers into it is 5% per spell level of abil 


ity added multiplied by the magical bonus of the weapon. 

In order to destroy an arch-shadow, the item infused with 
its life force must be destroyed. Once the item is destroyed, 
the arch-shadow loses 2 hit points per day until dead. 

To make the ascension to demi-shade, the arch-shadow 
must drain creatures who have touched the Sword within the 
last 24-hours. It takes eight life levels gathered within two 
hours for the change to occur, but an arch-shadow can gamble 
and gain more Hit Dice in the process of transforming. They 
accomplish this typically by draining high-level characters or 
powerful creatures, normally attacking by surprise. 

For each additional level over eight that the arch-shadow 
drains, one extra Hit Die is added. If the draining takes place 
in a particularly unhallowed place, the arch-shadow gains an 
additional +1 on Hit Dice. In no event can the arch-shadow 
surpass 30 HD. 

Demi-Shade 

This is the mature form of the arch-shadow. After draining 
enough life energy to emerge into its new form, the demi- 
shade typically disappears from the face of the world for a time 
as it determines its next course of action. Since it still retains 
its link to the magical item that carries its life energy, the 
demi-shade normally brings the item with it for safekeeping. 

Unlike its lich cousin, the demi-shade remains highly 
interested in the affairs of the living. After 10-40 years of soli 
tude, the demi-shade puts its plans to work. Although they 
seldom have any desire to rule countries, they possess a fierce 
determination to see the world burn around them. 

The demi-shade appears as a physical manifestation of its 
previous body. Skin color has changed to a deep shade of gray- 
back, and eyes burn a fierce crimson. 

Combat: The touch of the demi-shade inflicts 2d4 points of 
damage and the loss of one level of experience. Its strong ties 
to magic also cause a 25% failure rate against magical items 
that grant immunities to life level loss (i.e. scarab of protec 
tion) .A demi-shade can be turned as a lich and a vampire and 
has all of the resistances and immunities of an arch-shadow. 

A demi-shade can only be struck by weapons of +2 or bet 
ter enchantment. It is not adversely affected by sunlight but 
tends to avoid it nonetheless. If destroyed, it loses 4 hp per 
day until it perishes. 





D ARkewb easT 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 


Any 

Very Rare 

Pack 

Night 

Carnivore 

Semi- (2-4) 

Nil 

Neutral evil 


NO. APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 
SIZE: 

MORALE: 

XP VALUE: 


See below 

4 

3, FI 18 (C) 

5 + 5 
19 

1 or 3 

Id4/ld4/3d4 
Rear claws for Id4x2 
Immune to mind control 
25% 

M (4'-5') 

n/a 

975 


The darkenbeast, also known as the death horror, is a normal 
animal that has been transformed into a savage beast. It has a 
black, reptilian hide, fangs and claws, and glowing red eyes, and 
resembles a pterodactyl. The darkenbeast measures 3-4 feet long 
and has a wingspan of 6 feet. It is always under the control of the 
mage responsible for its transformation. 

Combat: The darkenbeast attacks with either its fangs or a com 
bination of fangs and claws. The bite inflicts 3d4 points of dam 
age, and each claw inflicts ld4 points. Darkenbeasts suffer a -1 
penalty to their attack rolls when exposed to bright light. 

Since these creatures operate under the telepathic direction, 
they do not check for morale. The are immune to mind- or mon 
ster-controlling spells, and they cannot be summoned by another 
wizard. However, if a darkenbeast is ordered to attack the person 
who was its master in life, the beast resists the order if it rolls a 
successful saving throw vs. spell. In this case, the creature 
remains a darkenbeast but it turns from its wizard master and 
obeys its true master. 

Habitat/Society: A mage casts the create darkenbeast spell (see 
page 30) on one or more animals, usually domestic or local ani 
mals such as sheep and dogs. Only animals of 2 Hit Dice or less 
can be turned into darkenbeasts by the spell. 

The affected animals are transformed into darkenbeasts 
within three rounds. The spell can only be cast in the absence of 
sunlight, and the transformation lasts until the creatures are 



exposed to daylight. At that time any living or dead darkenbeasts 
revert to their natural form. 

A darkenbeast does not need to be trained or controlled by 
such means as leashes, verbal commands, or gestures. The mage 
gives the darkenbeast limited orders based on mental images. The 
darkenbeast then pursues the quarry portrayed in those images. 
The darkenbeast carries out this order until the task has been 
accomplished, the darkenbeasts is slain, or daylight breaks the 
spell. 

All darkenbeasts are carnivores, regardless of the eating habits 
of the original animals used. Because the spell uses local animals, 
there are several advantages over using other, permanent beasts. 
The animals can be replaced as needed, and because of their day 
light reversion, darkenbeasts leave little trace of their existence. 
Adventurers who slay the monsters face the wrath of the live 
stock's proper owners when they discover their animals dead. 

Ecology: Darkenbeasts are useful when a mage needs allies or dis 
tractions to use against a foe. Mages dwelling in subterranean 
regions away from daylight may keep a permanent pack of dark 
enbeasts as guard animals. 









Magical. Items 
Abjd> Spells 

The S(x>onb of the Dal.es 

T he Sword of the Dales is a long sword +3 made of silver and inlaid with gems in 
its pommel. It glows with a soft blue radiance. The Sword unlocks chains and 
manacles within 30 feet if the wielder speaks the word merrydale. The Sword grants 
the wielder the ability to breathe water (as the spell water breathing) once per day. 
The blade's most prominent ability is to inflict double damage on all magically 
transformed and magically created creatures. This includes golems and other magi 
cal constructs but not summoned or conjured creatures such as elementals. 

In addition to the above powers, the weapon also reflects all polymorph and 
lightning- based attacks back at their caster. 

XP Value: 7,500 GP Sale Value: 25,000* 

* The Sword of the Dales is considered to be a regional icon-a weapon of power to 
save the Dales from the forces of evil. Most collectors are not interested in the 
weapon because it draws too many visitors seeking a glimpse of it. Gothyl further 
complicates matters by casting suggestion through the Sword on interested collec 
tors or diviners. Such suggestions always seem to refer the wielder to "more capable 
and interested parties" some distance away. 

DRearngLobe 

5th-level Wizard Spell (Divination) 

Range: Touch Casting Time: 1 round 

Components: V, S, M Area of Effect: 1 creature 

Duration: 24 hours Saving Throw: Special 

T his spell traps its victim inside a sphere of magical energy. The wizard utters 
the final word of this spell then merely reaches out and touches the target 
creature. This requires a successful attack roll if used in combat. The victim is enti 
tled to a saving throw vs. spell to completely avoid the effects. If the spell is used 
during combat, the victim receives a +2 bonus on the saving throw. If the victim 
has already been immobilized or is magically held, no adjustment is given. If a vic 
tim is sleeping, he or she incurs a -4 penalty on the save. 

If the save fails, the victim is caught in a sphere of force that resembles the 
effects of a sepia snake sigil. The victim remains floating within the sphere in a 
dreamlike state until the spell ends. 

The wizard can attempt to pry information from the trapped creature once per 
hour, and this questioning requires all of the wizard's concentration. For each 























question the wizard asks, the victim is entitled to a 
saving throw vs. spell to resist the delvings of the 
caster. The DM may assign penalties or bonuses to 
the roll based upon the character's willingness to 
divulge such information. Certain spells and magical 
items, such as mind blank or an amulet of proof against 
detection and location, make an encapsulated creature 
immune to interrogation. 

The spell can be recast upon a victim already 
within a globe to continue the effects beyond the 24- 
hour period. This entitles the victim to an unmodified 
saving throw vs. spell. 

There are two ways to release the victim of a dream- 
globe spell. The first is to wait until the 24 hours have 
elapsed and the spell ends. In this case, the victim is 
groggy and incoherent for ld4+l rounds. The second 
is to shatter the dreamglobe itself. If hit, the globe saves 
vs. crushing blow. The sudden collapse of the globe 
renders the victim unconsciousness for 4d4+4 turns. 

The material components for this spell are a crystal 
sphere (crushed during the final phase of casting) and 
a piece of amber. 


T his spell enables a mage to transform one or 
more mammals into darkenbeasts. The animals 
to be transformed must be within a 20-foot-diameter 
circle. The spell automatically affects ordinary, non- 
magical mammals and animals of semi-intelligence. 
Animals with an Intelligence of 5 or more get a sav 
ing throw to resist the spell. Only animals of two Hit 
Dice or less are affected by this spell. Humans, 
humanoids, and demihumans are immune. The 
mage can transform one animal per each level of 
experience. 

The spell can be cast only in darkness, such as at 
night or underground, and its effects last until daylight 
strikes the darkenbeasts. At that time, the creature 
automatically reverts back to its true form. Slain dark 
enbeasts also revert. The spell sun ray or a magical sun 
blade breaks the spell, but a continual light spell has no 
effect. 

The material component is dried wyvern's blood. 

SbA<bou_>sb)ei<b 


TelepoRT Ritog 

T hese plain brass finger rings were once common 
in the Realms but are now very rare. They 
enable any wearer to teleport without error from a cur 
rent location to a predetermined spot on the same 
plane, either by speaking a command word or through 
activation by force of will. 

Teleport rings operate exactly like the 7th-level wiz 
ard spell, but they cannot travel across the planes. 
These rings were the source for Halaster's version of 
the homed and cursed teleport rings found in the Ruins 
of Undermountain. 


Cjz.&xT& 

D AKk&to b easT 

4th-Level Wizard Spell (Alteration) 

Range: 10 yards/level Casting Time: 4 
Components: V, S, M Area of effect: Special 
Duration: Special Saving Throw: None 


4th-level Wizard Spell (Alteration) 


Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: Special 


Casting Time: 4 

Area of Effect: One creature 

Saving Throw: Neg. 


T his spell enables a wizard to make a creature 
more likely to survive an attack by imbuing the 
creature with a phantom shadow of itself. 

This phantom possesses half of the creature's nor 
mal hit points. When attacked, there is a 60% chance 
that the phantom absorbs all of the damage. The shad- 
owshield is ineffective against psionic or magical 
attacks that affect the mind. 

The phantom makes saving throws just as the 
affected creature. If it is reduced to 0 or fewer hit 
points, the shadowshield is dispelled and cannot be cast 
again until one day per each hit point of damage taken 
has passed. In addition, creatures that attempt to use 
this spell more than three times per year must make a 
Constitution check. Failure indicates the permanent 
loss of one point of Constitution. 

The material component of this spell is the crea 
ture's shadow, which must be present to cast the spell. 






Encounters Appendix 
D20 Encounter 
1-2 Gnomecrusher Band 
Goblins (12): Int low; AL LE; AC 6 (10); MV 
6; HD 1-1; hp 4 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6 (by weapon); SZ S; ML 10; XP 15. 
Each goblin carries a pouch with 3 sp and 14 cp. 

3 The Guardian 

Treant: Int very; AL CG; AC 0; MV 12; HD 7; 
hp 33; THACO 13; #AT 2; Dmg 2d8; SA ani 
mate other trees; SZ H; ML 16; XP 2,000. 

4-5 Trade Caravan 

6 Of Things Druidic 

Father Deltoor Rillian: 5th-level human druid 
of Chauntea; AL N; AC 4; MV 12; hp 27; 
THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type + 1; S 
12, D 16, C 13, I 13, W 17, CH 16; XP 975. He 
wears leather +2 and carries a staff +1. 

Initiates (3): lst-level human druids of 
Chauntea; AL N; AC 10; MV 12; hp 9, 6, 5; 
THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type; XP 
35. Each carries a normal staff. 

7-8 Shades of the Canine 

Wolves (2d6): Int low; AL N; AC 7; MV 18; 
HD 3; hp 20, 17, 16x3, 15x2, 13x3, 12, 10; 
THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg ld4+l; SD +1 versus 
charm attacks; SZ S; ML 10; XP 120. 

9-11 Spider-eyed 

Hairy Spiders (2d4): Int low; AL NE; AC 8; 
MV 12, Wb 9; HD 1-1; hp 7, 5x3, 4x3, 3; 


THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1; SA poison (type 
A); SZ T; ML 10; XP 65. 

12 - 14 Kobold Incursions 
Kobolds (12): Int average; AL LE; AC 7; MV 
6; HD 1-4; hp 4x3,3x7,2x7, 1x3; THACO 20; 
#AT 1; Dmg by weapon type; SZ S; ML 9; XP 
7. They are armed with javelins and short 
swords. Each carries ld4 clumps of ore contain 
ing silver, worth 2 sp each. 

15 - 16 Homeward Travelers 

Gnolls (ld4+4): Int low; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; 
HD 2; hp 15, 14, 12x2, 11, 10, 8x2; THACO 
19; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4; SZ L; ML 11; XP 65 
(leader), 35 (remainder). 

17 Camouflaged! 

Elias Trollsblood, Doppleganger: Int very; AL 
N; AC 5; MV 9; HD 4; hp 23; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg ldl2; SA surprise, ESP, imitates its 
victim with 90% accuracy; SD immune to sleep 
and charm, spells; SZ M; ML 13; XP 420. 

18 - 19 Fire in the Woods 

Fire Beetles (3d4): Int non; AL N; AC 4; MV 
12; HD 1+2; hp 5 each; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
Dmg 2d4; SZ S; ML 12; XP 35. 

2 0 Leaping Spiders 

Huge Spiders (ldl2): Int animal; AL N; AC 
6; MV 18; HD 2+2; hp 14, 13, 12x2, 10x4, 
9x2, 8, 7; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA 
poison (A); SZ M; ML 8; XP 270. 


EtocouhiTetzs 

Appewdlx 

ncounters can occur anywhere, but activities 
such as building a fire or making an inordinate 
amount of noise doubles the chance of an encounter. 

Check for daylight encounters once every eight 
hours. Night checks should be made every four hours. 

Gnomecrusher Band 

These creatures attempt to attack a lone sentry at 
night. If the encounter occurs during the day, they try 
to overwhelm the party. 


The Guardian 

If encountered during the day, the treant merely 
notices the party as it walks past. If a night encounter 
is called for, the treant slowly makes its way to the 
edge of the camp to view the fire, making sure the 
party is not destroying living wood. As long as the PCs 
are doing no harm, the treant leaves them alone. If 
they are recklessly harming the forest, the creature 
attacks when the fire goes out. 

Behind a rock is the treant's treasure: three red gar 
nets worth 100 gp each, four moonstones worth 50 gp, 
and two potions of Sweetwater. 

Trade Caravan 

This caravan just finished trading with the village 
of Stormpemhauder. The merchants speak well of the 
gnomes in the forest. 






31 








Of Things Druidic 

If the PCs meet Father Rillian and his initiates dur 
ing the day, he's instructing his students on proper 
maintenance of the trees near the trail. If he's encoun 
tered at night, the priest is showing the initiates how 
to make their way out of the forest. If characters start a 
conversation with him, he has plenty of helpful advice 
concerning forest conservation. 

Shades of the Canine 

During the day, the wolves leap from the sides of 
the trail for a quick attack. At night, they slowly 
approach a campfire, hoping to catch a guard away 
from the flickering flames. 

Spider-eyed 

Spiders along the trail typically attack for ld4 
rounds before making a morale check, but magical fire 
of any sort forces an immediate morale check. 

Kobold Incursions 

After being forced from the Desertsmouth Moun 
tains by an angry wyvern, these creatures have 
recently opened up a new mine in the northern Spi- 
derhaunt. This small band is out foraging for real food; 
all they're carrying are some dead spiders. 


Homeward Travelers 

The gnolls are found traveling toward the 
Desertsmouth Mountains if this encounter occurs at 
night. During the day, their camp is found hidden in a 
thick grove of trees that blocks most of the light. 

Camouflaged! 

As the PCs round a bend in the trail, they see the 
battered and beaten form of an old man. His clothes 
are tattered and covered with blood, and he scarcely 
tries to move as they approach. 

He explains that he is Elias Trollsblood, an indepen 
dent tracker from Tilverton who was set upon by ores. 
He's willing to pay 50 gp (all that he's got) to the party if 
they take him out of Spiderhaunt. Of course, he's more 
than willing to tag along until he can get a PC alone. 

Fire in the Woods 

Since fire beetles dislike the light, this encounter can 
occur in a secluded area of the woods during the day 
(their nest), or the beetles can wander into camp at 
night. 

Leaping Spiders 

Spiders leap out from the sides of the trail, forcing the 
PCs to make surprise rolls at -6. Optionally, the spiders 
could attack the camp. 





















S = secRct Door 

r - Pit rnap GottjyrS t:OW€R ENtKaNC€ 

= CeiliNQ PaNd 

= 5 feet 
If = Sltoe 



Qotbyl's Labcmatony 





Arivanrrrt 


by Jim Butler 


T he infamous SuwJ of tfie Doles has always held a 
certain fascination in the eyes and hearts of tbre 
cirhens of chc Dalelands Thus, It was no surprise 
when Randal Mom, rebel Leader of Daggendale, led an 
enpedltifun into the crypt erf a long-dead wizard to 
recover rite weapon, 

Shracvyn the weapons- mage had created the WrW 
long ago, anil it stood to reason that the Idude would 
be waiting within his tomb- Perhaps the 'iw.vW vj tht J ' 

Doles would allow Randal Morn to rul e Daggervhle 
once again. But Randal Mora never returned from 
chat fated party. Only tales of terror told by :i Ion* 
survivor held any -clues as to Randal's fate- A brave 
hand of heroes accomplished what Randal Mom's 1 
group foiled to do- in pan one of this crilugy, 

TV £wond of dur Dales. 

Battling through the tomb's undftul inhahmtnis,, those 
heroes reached the burial c.T>pt of Sbrivyu. There, resting 
the -center of the coffin, was the ISwOrtl of "Ae fJaiot, its aiure glow 
filling the chamber- However, there was no sign of Randal Morn. 

Only a onre sloped by his hand held any clue as ro his fate. "Sect me i n Spiderhaunt " it proclaimed- 
"The late 
nd Di^geT-dale is in your hands." 

This is the second parr of a trilogy of modules that began with The Surard of the Doles. The sag a 
concludes with 
The Rrtmtt u/ Ri-jtlLJ Mont 


TSR* Inc. 

20) Sheridan Sprm|f Ri. 
] .akt ticrniva 

WT 51147 
L J.S.A. 


U-S, 4ib.y5 


Stag, Kelai I 
CAN 


I SR Ltd- 
120 Church End 
Cherrv Hinton 
Cambridge CHI iLB 
UnlU'd Klfindom 


L ,K, L4r50 


[sen n-rass-DiSu-u 


ADVANCED OuhiaEONS A D9AQCNS and FORGOTTEN RLAUVIS nre w-r.;.i trademark? nw-ird fr r TSU Inc 
ra* TSR lefio la d Iradcrrark owned my TsR, Inr 
• 1*95 75ft '1C. All Hi-Mr, Hcsfivm*. Frlnte-d in :he U.S.A 























































