Advanced  Dungeon  s^|)ragons
ADVANCED  DUNGEONS  £  DRAGONS,  AD&D,  BATTLES  YSTEM,  PRODUCTS  OF  YOUR  1  MAGI  MATSON, FORGOTTEN  REALMS,  and  the  TSR  logo  are  trademarks  owned  by  T5R  Inc,
Swords  of  the  Iron  Legion
A  BATTLESY5TEJVT1  GAME  ANTHOLOGY
CREDITS
Editing;  "Skip"  Williams Editorial  Assistance;  Bruce  Heard lean  Rabe
Cover  Painting:  Larry  Elmore Maps;  Diesel
Keylimng;  Stephanie  Tabat
Distributed  to  the  book  trade  m  the  United  States  by  Ran¬ dom  Houle  Inc.,  and  m  Canada  by  Random  House  of  Can¬ ada,  Ltd.  Distributed  to  the  toy  and  hobby  trade  by regional  distributors.  Distributed  b  the  United  Kingdom by  TSR  UK  Ltd.
Thisadvtniuic  is  protected  under  the  copyright  laws  of  the United  Stares  of  America.  Any  reproduction  or  other  unau¬ thorized  use  of  the  material  or  artwork  contained  herein  is prohibited  without  the  express  written  permission  of  TSR Inc
ADVANCED  DUNGEONS  A  DRAGONS.  AD*D,  BAT TLE5TSTEM,  PRODUCTS  OF  YOUK  IMAGINATION, FORGOTTEN  REALMS  ,  and  the  TSR  logo  are  trademarks owned  by  TSR,  Inc.
e198fl  "ran,  Inc.  All  Rights  Reserved.  Printed  in  the  USA.
TlH,  Inc,
pfifrniCT*  of  TOJ*  WAOuurniHt  ■
TSR,  Inc,  TSR  UK  Ud.
POB  756  The  Mill.  Rariunore  Road
Lake  Geneva  Gunbndge  GBl  4AD
W1  53 1 47  U  ,S.  A,  U  nired  Kingdom
TABLE  OF  CONTENTS
How  to  Use  this  Book  . . . . . . . * . . . *  *  *  * . 2
The  Storm  of  Greshlyrr  (Bill  Connors)  . *  *  ■  .  *  * . *  ■  *  *  3
Armies  . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . ■
Those  Who  Forget  the  Past  (Christopher  Mortika)  . . « ♦  * . 8
Armies  . . . * .  * . . . * . * . 14
Maps  . . . . ••*****>* . * . —  14
The  Hand  of  Tyr  (Rick  Reid)  - . ***.***••.******••-*  Is
Annies  . ,,»*....««»* . . - . . . .  24
Map  ,  * . . . . . . . . . . *  *  *  * . 23
Rumors  of  War  (Scot  t  Bennie)  ....... . * . . .  25
Armies  . . . . •  *<*'*«•  vn  *  ‘  " . . . *  *  -  33
Battle  of  the  Five  Crowns  (John  Terra)  . . * . . 32
Armies . .  * . . * . . . .  37
Map  . . . - *  32
The  Khan's  Mighty  Army  (Jay  Batista)  ............ . ******* . *  3®
Armies  . ^  r  * . *  *  -  *  43
The  Gratitude  of  Princes  (Roy  Schelper)  . , . - . *  *  44
Armies  . .  -  * . . *  *  *  *  * . . * . 51
Maps  . . . . . *  *  *  *  *  50
The  Final  Battle  (Rick  Swan}  . . . -  *  ■ . . 52
Annies  . . . * . * . . . . . . .  60
Map  f  t  . . . . .  t ,  ,**„**. . . , . ,  Inside  front  cover
Firelights
The  First  (and  last)  Charge  of  the  Dwarven  Air  Cavalry - - - - - 61
Armies  . . . . . . * . . . 64
Troll  Bridge  . . .  4  >  * . . . .  62
Armies  . . * . . * . . . . 64
The  Defense  of  Halfling  Vale . . . *  -  63
Armies  . . . . .  * . . . .  64
Combined  Monster  Statistics  Table  . . . . Inside  back  cover
ISBN  IMBH38- 559-6 9226XXX1501
How  to  Use  this  Book
ore-  *
This  product  provides  the  referee  with eight  interrelated  battle/adventures,  Each scenario  includes  a  BATTLESYSTENT* Fantasy  Combat  Supplement  miniatures battle  and  an  AD&D®  game  role-playing adventure  related  to  the  battle.  In  some cases  the  adventure  leads  to  the  battle,  in others  the  adventure  takes  place  during the  battle.
Although  each  scenario  is  designed  to stand  alone,  all  eight  can  be  played  togeth¬ er  as  a  mini-campaign,  The  scenarios  are presented  in  chronological  order  and  get progressively  more  difficult  for  both  play¬ ers  and  characters.  This  will  give  players and  referees  time  to  become  Familiar  with the  BAl  I LESYSTEM  Fantasy  Combat Supplement  rules  and  the  challenges  of battlefield  command.
This  product  also  includes  three  smaller scenarios— Firefights,  The  Firefights  are  of median  difficulty  and  can  be  played  sepa¬ rately  or  inserted  into  a  campaign.
If  you  decide  to  use  this  product  as  a mini-campaign  you  will  have  some work  to  do,  adding  material  to  bridge the  gaps  between  scenarios.  Most importantly  you  will  have  to  provide your  PCs  with  reasons  for  being  where the  action  is.  The  locations  are  provid¬ ed  for  you,  but  you  will  have  to  get  the
PCs  there.  Perhaps  just  as  importantly, you  will  have  to  pace  your  campaign  so the  PCs  do  not  find  themselves involved  in  adventures  they  can't  han¬ dle,  Be  sure  to  read  the  entire  product before  you  start  play.
Background  for  the  DM
The  dread,  brooding  citadel  of  Khin- Oin  towers  20  miles  above  the  diseased plains  of  Oinos,  the  uppermost  Gloom of  Hades,
The  Khin-Oin  or  Wasting  Tower,  is the  seat  of  the  oinodaemon,  Anthraxus, ruler  (nominally)  of  the  Middle  Planes and  all  of  daemonkind.  Anthraxus's  rule is  not  easy  or  quiet.  The  oinodaemon must  discourage  or  oppose  invasions from  the  Abyss  or  the  Hells,  keep  order among  his  unruly  vainglorious  subjects, and  resist  endless  attempts  to  unseat  him. Anthraxus,  jealously  guarding  his  power, is  always  wary  of  ambitious  vassals  who might  acquire  enough  power  to  usurp  his rule,  just  as  he  usurped  the  oinodaemon who  preeeeded  him.
One  such  vassal  is  the  arcana  daemon Yrkhetep,  who  has  shown  unusual interest  in  the  Prime  Material  Plane— specifically  the  lands  of  the  Forgotten Realms  which  surround  the  Vilhon
Reach.  Whatever  Yrkhetep  is  up  to  in the  Forgotten  Realms,  Anthraxus  rea¬ soned,  it  would  be  best  if  the  effort  fails.
Anthraxus  has  reasoned  correctly. Yrkhetep,  like  all  powerful  daemons, has  coveted  Anthraxus's  power  for  mil¬ lennia,  and  he  means  to  have  it.  Yrkhe¬ tep  has  plans  to  build  an  invincible army  spearheaded  by  an  indestructible weapon — the  Infinity  Train .  Yrkhetep believes  that  such  an  army  can  do  the hitherto  impossible:  lay  siege  to  the Khin-Oin  and  win.
To  provide  souls  to  power  the  Train, and  to  train  veteran  troops  for  the siege,  Yrkhetep  is  exhorting  evil  crea¬ tures  living  in  the  Turmish/Chondath area  to  go  to  war.  Anthraxus  has  deter¬ mined  to  stop  Yrkhetep  before  he  can become  a  threat,  but  he  is  initially unaware  of  the  Train  or  Yrkhetep's desire  for  souls.  Anthraxus  intervenes by  subtly  manipulating  events  to  aid the  side  of  good  (and  the  PCs).  Of course,  Anthraxus  won't  mind  if  the forces  of  good  are  decimated  while opposing  Yrkhetep,
When  Anthraxus  finally  leams  the full  extent  of  Yrkhetep's  plans,  he  lures the  PCs  into  Hades  itself  to  confront Yrkhetep  directly.
2
Overview
This  adventure  is  designed  for  a  group of  4  to  8  characters  of  2d  to  3d  level. The  entire  party  should  be  of  good alignment,  although  they  may  be  law¬ ful,  neutral,  or  chaotic  as  desired.  The members  of  this  party  should  represent a  wide  variety  of  character  classes.
All  of  the  events  in  this  adventure  are set  in  the  land  of  Turmish.  The  adven¬ ture  begins  with  the  party  traveling through  the  region  on  business.  The exact  nature  of  this  business  is  up  to  the referee.  It  should  be  important  enough to  insure  that  the  players  will  undertake the  journey  but  not  so  pressing  as  to make  it  impossible  for  the  party  to  stop for  a  brief  period  while  enroute.
The  party  is  forced  to  seek  shelter from  a  fierce  storm.  Coming  across  a small  cave,  they  duck  inside,  only  to discover  that  it  is  the  entrance  to  a kobold  lair.  Moving  into  the  nest,  they find  that  it  is  defended  by  only  a  hand¬ ful  of  guards,  women,  and  children. With  no  difficulty,  they  overcome  the resistance  offered  and  loot  the  warrens.
Unbeknownst  to  the  party,  the kobold  nest  is  so  poorly  defended  only because  the  majority  of  the  inhabitants have  gone  to  attack  a  nearby  band  of goblins.
Upon  leaving,  they  resume  their  trip and  eventually  come  to  the  small  town of  Gildenglade.  The  folk  of  Gild  eng]  a  de do  not  greet  the  news  of  the  characters' raid  on  the  kobolds  with  delight,  as expected,  but  are  instantly  scornful.
It  is  explained  to  them  that  a  truce  has existed  for  years  between  the  kobold clan  and  the  townsfolk.  The  actions  of the  adventurers  may  well  bring  this  per¬ iod  of  peaceful  coexistence  to  a  sudden end.
The  characters  are  ordered  to  return all  of  the  treasures  which  they  have looted  to  Greshlyrr,  the  kobold  chief. The  gnomes  of  Gildenglade  will  supply a  messenger  to  transport  the  goods,
The  return  of  the  valuables  makes  no difference  to  the  kobolds,  who  send their  armies  to  Gildenglade  with  orders to  raze  it  to  the  ground.  For  them,  there
can  be  no  response  to  this  great  insult but  war.
The  Storm  Builds
The  party  is  traveling  through  the  rich fields  of  Turmish,  The  referee  is  free  to use  any  means  desired  to  bring  them  to this  point.  Some  suggestions:  the  deliv¬ ery  of  a  message  to  a  noble  in  the  area, rumors  of  a  dangerous  monster  which needs  to  be  defeated,  or  simple  tourism.
As  they  travel,  the  party  sees  the impressive  efforts  of  local  farmers,  the fields  are  in  excellent  shape,  and  the harvest  promises  to  be  most  plentiful. The  people  of  the  land  seem  to  be  kind and  honest,  providing  food  and  water for  the  party  whenever  they  stop  and request  it.  The  only  fee  for  these  serv¬ ices  is  a  few  hours  of  conversation  and the  telling  of  some  stories  about  their past  adventures.
As  they  ride  onward,  the  fields  grad¬ ually  give  way  to  light  woods,  which are  dotted  with  occasional  fruit  trees, and  the  road  becomes  less  well  used. Just  as  the  territory  around  them changes,  so  does  the  weather,  A  wind begins  to  pick  up  and  the  skies  begin  to turn  gray.
By  the  time  the  trees  about  them  have thickened  into  a  heavy  wood,  a  gentle rain  has  begun  to  fall.  Within  minutes, the  rain  has  become  a  veritable  cascade and  the  wind  batters  the  characters with  sudden,  powerful  gusts.
No  matter  how  great  their  desire  to press  on,  the  weather  quickly  makes travel  impossible  for  the  party. Although  the  protection  offered  by  the trees  reduced  the  ferocity  of  the  storm, they  are  quickly  drenched,  leaving them  with  no  option  but  to  seek  shelter.
Luck  is  with  them,  for  they  quickly spot  a  small  trail  which  leads  farther into  the  woods.  Following  this  promise of  protection,  they  come  to  the  mouth of  a  cave.  It  looks  to  be  large  enough  to hold  the  entire  band  of  adventurers with  only  a  little  crowding.
Greshlyrr
Greshlyrr  is  an  unusually  strong  and intelligent  kobold.  He  is  cunning  and cruel,  taking  great  joy  in  the  suffering and  hardship  which  he  brings  upon  oth¬ ers.  However,  he  feels  a  responsibility to  his  tribe,
During  his  ten-year  rule  as  chief  of the  Scything  Claw  tribe,  Greshlyrr  has brought  his  people  to  a  level  of  civiliza¬ tion  unknown  to  other  kobolds. Although  individual  members  of  the nest  are  every  bit  as  savage  and  vicious as  their  peers  elsewhere  in  the  Forgotten Realms,  the  group  behaves  far  better  as a  whole.
Greshlyrr  has  managed  to  accom¬ plish  this  feat  through  his  strong  per¬ sonality  and  his  people's  belief  that  he has  been  granted  a  special  position  in the  eyes  of  Kurtulmak,  the  kobold  dei¬ ty.  They  believe  this  because  Greshlyrr once  found  a  masterfully  crafted  {by kobold  standards)  figurine  of  Kur- tulmak  in  an  abandoned  den.  Only  sec¬ onds  after  he  had  recovered  it  and  left the  area,  the  caves  collapsed  in  an earthquake.  The  fact  that  he  emerged unharmed  from  this  near-fatal  encount¬ er  was  ample  proof  of  Greshlyrr's divine  favor.
Shortly  after  Greshlyrr  came  to power,  the  tribe  encountered  the gnomes  of  nearby  Gildenglade.  As  is the  norm  in  such  meetings,  violence
3
broke  out.  For  several  years,  the  two groups  exchanged  futile  attacks  and skirmishes  which  resolved  nothing.  In the  end,  they  settled  into  an  unofficial, but  mutually  accepted,  truce.  To  this day,  the  agreement  has  remained unbroken.
Greshlyrr  always  carries  his  prized shield.  Blade  Turner,  a  sturdy  construct of  wood  and  wicker  with  the  bloody talon  glyph  of  his  tribe  painted  on  its center.  He  normally  fights  with  a  small scimitar  or  axe.
Greshlyrr'  AC  5;  Move  6";  HD  1;  hp 7;  THACO 19;  » AT  1;  Dmg  1-6;  AL  LE), AR  34;  Rank  Army;  CR  9H ;  CB  0,
The  Scything  Claw
Greshlyrr  s  tribe  is,  by  kobold  stand¬ ards,  quite  civilized.  Of  course,  that isn't  saying  much  in  human  terms,  but it  is  significant,  and  the  referee  should take  it  into  account.  This  doesn't  mean that  the  individuals  are  unusual kobolds,  only  that  Greshlyrr's  influence over  them  has  been  beneficial.
The  Scything  Qaw  tribe  has  roughly 700  kobolds.  Of  these,  about  250  are woman  and  children  who  do  not  nor¬ mally  become  involved  in  the  tribes military  affairs.
The  Storm  Rises
As  the  characters  enter  the  mouth  of  the cave,  they  find  a  trio  of  kobold  guards standing  watch  there.  Actually  "stand¬ ing  watch"  is  an  exaggeration.  Two  are playing  a  dice  game  in  one  comer  while the  third  snores  restfully  next  to  a  small fire  which  has  been  started  to  keep  out the  storm  s  chill.
Upon  spotting  the  characters,  the guards  move  to  resume  their  duties  as quickly  as  possible.  Two  of  them attack,  while  the  third  produces  a  key and  runs  for  a  door  set  into  the  wall  at the  back  of  the  cave.  If  he  can  get through  it,  he  will  flee  into  the  lair  and alert  the  others  that  they  are  under attack.  That  is  not  likely  to  make  much difference,  however,  because  of  the  cal¬
iber  of  the  kobold  forces  within.
After  the  characters  have  dealt  with the  guards  at  the  entrance,  they  will find  that  the  large  rusty  key  carried  by one  of  them  fits  into  a  lock  on  a  heavy stone  door  at  the  shadowy  back  of  the chamber.  When  the  key  is  inserted  and turned,  the  door  can  be  pushed  aside with  a  minimum  of  grinding  and  scrap¬ ing.
Once  beyond  this  portal,  the  charac¬ ters  will  find  themselves  in  a  long  tun¬ nel,  Its  rough  construction  is  typical  of the  kobold  craftsmen  who  built  it,  as  is the  foul  stench  in  the  dank  air.  The  slick floor  and  poor  air  will  make  the  descent very  uncomfortable  for  the  characters, but  their  most  pressing  problem  will  be the  size  of  the  corridor  Its  height  varies from  4  to  5  feet  along  its  entire  length. Similarly  the  width  is  minimal,  ranging from  3  to  4  feet.
The  party  can  only  hope  that  the inner  chambers  will  be  more  spacious, as  anyone  fighting  in  such  confined quarters  will  be  greatly  handicapped. This  is  not  the  case,  however;  the  entire complex  is  similarly  cramped.  Doors  in the  caves  are  even  more  uncomforta¬ ble,  being  about  6  inches  lower  and  nar¬ rower,  on  the  average,  than  the corridors.
As  the  party  explores  the  tunnels which  are  home  to  the  Scything  Claw tribe,  they  find  them  to  be  almost deserted.  Here  and  there,  periodic resistance  will  be  offered  by  small bands  of  kobolds,  but  this  will  be  mini¬ mal  and  easily  overcome.  The  warriors encountered  will  be  older  and  in  poor physical  condition,  Often,  they  will have  been  badly  injured  previously  and are  dearly  unfit  for  normal  military operations,  for  example;  a  kobold  with a  missing  hand,  a  bad  limp,  or  one  who has  lost  an  eye.  The  referee  should  go  to some  lengths  to  make  it  obvious  to  the players  that  they  are  fighting  the  second string.
After  several  encounters  with  pathet¬ ic  kobolds  the  characters  come  across the  only  well-organized  defense  in  the caves.  A  force  of  11  kobolds  has  assem¬ bled  outside  of  the  center  of  the  nest  and
fights  boldly  to  drive  off  the  invaders.  It should  be  a  far  more  even  battle  than the  others,  but  still  fairly  one-sided.
The  referee  should  draw  up  some simple  maps  of  the  cavern  complex.  For the  most  part  it  is  quite  basic,  but  there are  a  few  rooms  which  must  be  includ¬ ed:
The  Temple:  This  is  a  large  chamber with  a  high  ceiling  (almost  6  feet)*  A crude  etching,  depicting  a  Large  kobold with  a  long  tail  that  ends  in  a  stinger and  with  a  slender  spear  clutched  in  his hands,  has  been  crafted  on  the  northern wall.  A  small  stone  altar  stands  before the  carving  and  holds  two  black  candles set  atop  gnomish  skulls.
Standing  on  the  center  of  the  altar, between  the  candles,  is  a  figurine.  It  is only  about  6  inches  tall  and  is  carved  of pure  obsidian.  The  statue  is  of  Kur- tuimak,  the  kobold  god,  whose  image also  adorns  the  northern  wall.  This object  is  of  no  great  value  and  will  bring only  about  100  gold  pieces  on  the  open market,  but  it  is  the  single  most  impor¬ tant  object  in  the  entire  lair.
The  Hatchery:  At  the  core  of  the caverns  is  a  large  room  which  is  kept very  humid  and  warm  by  a  hot  spring bubbling  up  in  one  comer.  The  walls are  covered  with  moisture  and  the  air  is thick  with  fog.  in  the  center  of  this chamber  are  mounds  of  kobold  eggs. At  any  given  time  there  are  roughly  150 of  them  in  here.  It  is  here  that  the  sur¬ viving  kobolds  have  erected  their  final defense.  They  have  gone  to  great lengths  to  protect  this  room  and  its  pre¬ cious  contents.
A  single  tunnel  leads  into  the  room from  the  rest  of  the  complex,  and  it  has been  rigged  with  a  variety  of  impro¬ vised  traps  (see  DMG,  appendix  G  for examples).  Any  thief  can  spot  and  dis¬ arm  them  easily  (  +  25%  to  Find/ Remove  Traps  ability).  Only  half  the traps  actually  work,  and  none  inflict more  than  ld6  points  of  damage*  Each affects  only  a  single  character.
Once  the  players  have  fought  their way  through  the  11  guards  who  have
4
stationed  themselves  as  a  last  line  of defense  for  the  eggs,  they  are  free  to destroy  or  take  as  many  of  them  as  they like*  Kobold  eggs  have  little  or  no  mar¬ ket  value  and  weigh  about  2  pounds each.  They  are  fragile,  and  care  must  be taken  if  they  are  to  be  taken  out  of  the nest  intact.
The  Barracks;  There  are  three  bar¬ racks  in  the  tunnels  which  are  home  to the  warrior  population.  When  the  char¬ acters  find  these,  it  should  be  obvious that  the  majority  of  the  kobolds  are elsewhere.  There  are  numerous  racks which  look  to  have  been  designed  for the  storage  of  arms  and  armor,  but  they are  mostly  empty.  A  few  broken  or  bad- ly  maintained  items  remain  behind*
The  barracks  contain  an  assortment of  personal  belongings,  including  a modest  amount  of  treasure— 2rG00  cp and  1,000  sp.  This  is  made  up  of  small ingots  of  precious  metal,  and  various coins.  The  only  other  item  of  value  in the  entire  complex  is  the  figurine  of Kurtulmak  from  the  temple.
The  Storm  Breaks
Greshlyrr  and  his  forces  return  to  the  nest only  an  hour  after  the  characters  have left.  The  triumph  of  his  forces  over  the goblin  raiders  has  done  wonders  for morale,  and  all  are  eager  to  return  and display  their  newly  acquired  trophies.
When  they  enter  the  nest,  it  quickly becomes  obvious  that  their  home  has been  attacked  and  ransacked.  Rage quickly  spreads  through  the  warriors  as they  hear  stories  of  the  invaders  and  the looting  of  the  caverns.
The  last  straw,  however,  is  the  theft of  the  figurine  from  the  temple.  There can  be  no  other  course  of  action,  the thieves  must  be  hunted  down  and destroyed,  no  matter  what  the  cost.  All eyes  turn  to  Greshlyrr  for  guidance,
Greshlyrr  looks  around  the  caves and  examines  the  various  scenes  which mark  the  adventurers'  visit ,  He  makes  a careful  study  of  the  evidence  and  comes to  a  conclusion:  the  trust  has  been betrayed.
The  gnomes.  Greshlyrr  reasons, must  have  hired  these  mercenaries  and sent  them  to  destroy  his  people.  They have  been  watching,  no  doubt,  and waiting  for  a  time  when  the  attack could  be  made,
Within  hours,  Greshlyrr  leads  his troops  to  another  battle.  This  time,  the grim  determination  which  inspired them  against  the  goblins  has  been replaced  by  the  traditional  racial  hatred which  all  kobolds  feel  for  gnomes.
Eye  of  the  Storm
Upon  leaving  the  kobold  warrens,  the characters  will  find  that  the  storm  has passed.  The  sky  is  still  dotted  with  gray clouds,  but  they  are  breaking  up  and the  sun  is  visible  through  the  thick  trees overhead.
Although  the  ground  is  slick  and  the way  is  broken  by  large  puddles,  the party  is  able  to  resume  their  travels  and make  fairly  good  time.
They  have  only  been  on  the  road  for an  hour  or  so  when  the  trees  about  them thin  slightly.  In  a  few  miles,  the  road has  once  again  become  well  tended  and shows  signs  of  frequent  use.  Shortly thereafter,  they  come  upon  a  few  scat¬ tered  farms  and  small  homes  at  the  out¬ skirts  of  a  small  village.
The  town  of  Gildenglade  is  a  quiet settlement  of  gnomes  who  make  their livings  mostly  by  farming  or  as  crafts¬ men.  The  village  is  composed  primarily of  earthen  mounds  and  burrows  which house  individuals  and  small  businesses. There  are  a  few  above-ground  struc¬ tures,  like  the  Tallstrider  Inn  and  Public House  which  seems  to  be  the  social  cen¬ ter  of  the  area.
The  travelers  are  greeted  with  looks of  curiosity  as  they  enter  town,  but  also with  smiles  and  waves.  For  the  most part,  the  people  of  this  community  are friendly  and  open  to  those  on  the  roads.
Lodging  at  the  inn  is  easily  obtained, as  is  a  hearty  meal  in  the  public  house, at  moderate  rates.  Dinner  consists  of  a good  stew  made  from  lamb  and  vegeta¬ bles,  which  is  seasoned  with  local herbs.  Fresh  bread  is  served  with  the
meal.  The  wholesome  repast  quickly fills  the  hall  with  its  aroma.  Following the  meal,  a  fine  dessert  of  fruits  and  pies is  brought  forth.
Afterward,  as  pipes  begin  appearing around  the  room,  the  travelers  are urged  to  tell  of  their  adventures  on  the road.  Their  stories  are  eagerly  and intently  taken  in  by  the  crowd;  until they  tell  of  the  kobold  nest.  As  they explain  the  events  which  preceded  their coming,  the  mood  of  the  crowd  turns dark.  By  the  time  the  characters  have finished  their  tale,  there  is  not  a  smiling face  in  the  room.
Thunder  in  Gildenglade
The  people  of  Gildenglade  confront  the poor  travelers  fiercely  They  explain,  in no  uncertain  terms,  that  the  characters have  done  a  horrible  thing.  As  the  party listens,  Benjin  Earthforger  steps  for¬ ward  and  identifies  himself  as  the patron  of  the  clans  who  dwell  in Gildenglade.
He  explains  that  there  is  no  choice  in the  matter;  the  characters  must  return  all of  the  items  removed  from  the  kobold lair.  It  is  hoped  that  these  measures  will be  enough  to  satisfy  Greshlyrr.  The  char¬ acters  have  no  choice  but  to  obey  as  the entire  populace  of  Gildenglade  will  be against  them  if  they  refuse.
As  the  sun  sinks  from  sight,  Benjin recruits  a  gnomish  soldier  from  the town  militia  to  carry  the  treasure  back. The  soldier  is  a  brave-looking  fellow with  defiant  eyes  who  rides  a  swift pony.  The  party's  treasure  is  stored  in his  saddle  bags,  and,  as  the  sun  van¬ ishes  for  the  night,  he  sets  out  upon  the road.  Minutes  later,  the  moon  breaks above  the  horizon  and  spreads  its  cold, pale  glow  across  the  village.
The  Storm  Rages
Several  hours  pass  as  the  characters  and townsfolk  wait  for  the  messenger's return.  In  Gildenglade,  the  tension mounts.  Throughout  the  village, gnomes  make  ready  for  battle.  In  the event  that  Greshlyrr  should  turn  down
5
their  apologies,  they  do  not  wish  to  be wholly  unprepared.
Across  the  town,  those  with  military experience  are  gathering  to  bolster  the local  militia.  Weapons  are  handed  out when  they  can  be  found,  and  impro¬ vised  when  they  cannot.  By  the  rime  the moon  has  reached  is  zenith,  the  good folk  of  Gildenglade  are  as  ready  as  they can  be  for  the  battle  which  might  await them.
In  the  early  hours  of  the  morning,  the watch  spots  a  single  rider  A  pair  of militiamen  move  forward  to  help  down the  returning  messenger  Greshlyrr's answer  is  quite  clear.
The  body  of  the  gnome  rider  has  been pierced  with  a  score  of  black-feathered arrows.  He  is  quite  dead  and  has  been lashed  to  his  pony.  The  saddle  bags, and  ail  that  they  held,  are  missing.
In  a  matter  of  seconds,  the  deadly calm  of  the  night  is  broken  by  a  shrill horn.  The  armies  of  Greshlyrr  have gathered  at  the  edge  of  the  woods. Their  arms  and  armor  glisten  in  the  thin moonlight.
Without  a  word,  Greshlyrr  sounds the  horn  again  and  signals  for  an advance.  The  battle  has  begun.
After  Greshlyrr's  battle  with  the  gob¬ lin  raiders,  his  forces  have  been  weak¬ ened.  Still,  because  of  the  outrage which  the  kobolds  feel  over  the  attack on  their  nest,  their  morale  is  good.  The fatigue  which  might  ordinarily  lessen their  prowess  has  been  driven  from them  by  their  long  restrained  hatred  of the  gnomes  of  Gildenglade.
Order  of  Battle
Greshlyrr's  Forces
The  Claw  Raiders  are  a  unit  ol  infantry who  wear  light  armor  and  metal  breast¬ plates.  They  are  armed  with  small  scim¬ itars  and  daggers.  Their  commander, Heggahst  (CR  6"),  is  a  veteran  of  sev¬ eral  campaigns  and  a  faithful  follower of  Greshlyrr,
The  Dark  Breakers  are  a  team  of fierce  fighters  who  battle  with  small, but  dangerous,  war  hammers.  Like  the
other  units,  they  wear  metal  chest  piec¬ es  and  helms,  but  do  not  carry  shields. The  Breakers  are  lead  by  Frenger  (CR 6"),  a  cruel  and  violent  kobold  who hopes  to  follow  Greshlyrr  as  chief  of  the Scything  Claw.
The  Black  Stingers  are  a  unit  of archers  who  use  short  bows  to  provide supporting  fire  for  the  melee  units. They  draw  their  names  from  the  ebony arrows  which  they  employ  in  combat. Their  leader  is  Estalex  (CR  6"),  a  lithe but  hardy  kobold  whose  quick  wits have  brought  down  many  foes.
The  Night  Stalkers  are  Greshlyrr's pride.  He  commands  these  fierce kobolds  himself.  Far  superior  to  the average  kobold  unit,  the  Stalkers  wear light  mail  armor  and  carry  keenly sharpened  scimitars.  They  carry  short bows  and  can  augment  the  Stingers" attacks.  Greshlyrr's  powerful  personal¬ ity  and  their  faith  in  his  leadership make  the  Stalkers  one  of  the  most  fear¬ some  kobold  units  in  the  Forgotten Realms.
The  Defenders  of  Gildenglade
The  Town  Militia  is  made  up  of  brave souls  who  have  had  varying  degrees  of military  experience.  Some  are  currently members  of  the  town  watch,  but  most are  simply  retired  army  veterans.  They wear  whatever  armor  could  be  found around  town  and  wield  various  weap¬ ons,  many  of  them  no  more  than  farm¬ ing  implements.  If  one  of  the  player characters  does  not  take  charge  of them,  their  leader  is  Benjin  Earthforger (CR  9W ),  He  is  brave  and  fierce  in  com¬ bat  and  fights  as  a  member  of  the  unit.
The  Citizenry  is  just  that.  The  good folk  of  Gildenglade  have  taken  up whatever  arms  they  might  and  gathered together  make-shift  armor.  For  the most  part,  they  are  a  curious  lot  who look  almost  comical  compared  to  the steady  ranks  of  the  militia  and  the vicious  kobold  units.  One  of  the  char¬ acters  should  be  assigned  to  command this  bunch.  If  that  is  not  done,  they  will be  lead  by  Haggath  AJebringer  (CR  8" ), the  keeper  of  the  inn  and  public  house.
They  are  a  mob  unit.
The  Huntsmen  are  gathered  from  all of  the  farms  around  town.  They  are gnomes  who  have  been  trained,  both formally  and  informally,  in  the  use  of bows.  What  armor  they  have  is  primar¬ ily  of  leather  with  bits  and  pieces  of more  solid  metal  scattered  about.  If  one of  the  adventurers  wishes  to  command this  unit,  he  may.  Otherwise,  their  lead¬ er  is  Tyrradin  Woodshaper  (CR  7"),  a farmer  who  is  well  known  for  his  wood¬ working  skills.  He  is  much  respected and  loved  by  the  people  of  Gildenglade, Although  not  all  of  the  Huntsmen  are veterans,  they  are  better  disciplined than  the  common  citizenry.
The  Field  of  Battle
For  the  most  part,  the  battle  is  fought  in the  fields  just  outside  of  town,  A  small stream  runs  roughly  through  the  center of  the  battlefield,  dividing  the  forces  as the  contest  opens.  The  village  lies  at  the center  of  the  boards  western  edge,  a road  runs  away  from  the  village  to  the north.  A  one-yard  high  stone  wall  has been  laid  along  the  side  of  the  road.
Most  of  the  fields  have  been  harvest¬ ed  already,  but  the  eastern  third  has not.  The  grain  which  grows  there  runs only  about  4  feet  high,  but  that  is  well over  the  heads  of  most  of  the  soldiers  on either  side.  For  all  troops  under  4  feet tall,  this  area  is  treated  as  woods.
Perspectives
As  this  adventure  begins,  the  characters have  no  idea  that  their  fates  will,  sooner or  later,  bring  them  to  the  attention  of both  Yrkhetep  and  his  rival,  An- thraxus.  The  daemons  themselves  have no  reason  to  be  aware  of  the  party's existence.
Greshlyrr,  however,  has  provided Yrkhetep  with  some  minor  amusements in  the  past.  The  arcanadaemon  has  con¬ sidered  the  possibility  of  future  con¬ tacts  with  him  and  the  potential recruitment  of  the  kobold  lord.
When  the  adventure  draws  to  a  close, things  will  have  changed  little.  Yrkhe-
6
tep  will  be  mildly  upset  over  the  loss  of a  being  with  Greshlyrrs  potential  dis¬ played  by  Greshiyrr,  but  he  will  place no  significance  on  it.  Still,  he  is  vastly intelligent  and  has  a  long  memory.
Anthraxus  will  have  gotten  a  slight chuckle  over  the  efforts  of  the  charac¬ ters  and  their  actions  in  Gildenglade. He  has  noted  their  potential  and  has come  to  the  conclusion  that  they  may be  of  some  use  in  the  future.  He  will,
most  certainly,  keep  an  eye  on  them.
The  characters,  if  they  survive,  will be  able  to  help  the  gnomes  pick  up  the pieces  after  the  battle.  Win  or  lose,  the people  of  Gildenglade  will  have  mixed feelings  for  the  adventurers.
On  one  hand,  they  are  thankful  for the  assistance  which  the  characters  pro¬ vided  in  the  battle  with  Greshlyrrs hordes.
However,  none  have  forgotten  the  fact
that  it  was  the  characters  who  brought the  kobolds  down  upon  them.  Now,  their kinfolk  have  been  slain  and  injured  and the  truce  which  they  once  enjoyed  with the  kobolds  has  been  shattered.
Once  things  have  settled  down  in Gildenglade,  the  characters  will  be asked  politely  to  be  on  their  way.  Their presence  amongst  the  gnomes  will  only serve  to  remind  them  of  that  dark  night when  the  storm  broke.
Greshlyrrs  Forces
UNTT  NAME
TYPE
LVL
AC
HD/FIG
MV
AR
ML
DL
#FIG
DMG
Claw  Raiders
Infantry
Kobold
6
5
6"
20
10
10
12
ld6
Dark  Breakers
Infantry
Kobold
6
5
6"
20
10
10
12
ld6
Black  Stingers
Infantry
Kobold
7
5
6"
20
10
10
10
ld6
Night  Stalkers
Infantry
Kobold
5
i
6"
20
10
10
6
IdS
The
Defenders
of  Gildenglade
UNIT  NAME
TYPE
LVL
AC
HD/FIG
MV
AR
ML
DL
#FIG
DMG
Town  Militia
Infantry
FI
6
10
6"
20
13
14
1  0
ld6
Citizenry
Infantry-
FI
7
10
6"
20
12
13
1  8
ld6
Huntsmen
Infantry
FI
6
10
6"
20
13
14
6
ld6
7
Those  who  Forget  the  Past
This  is  an  adventure  for  a  well-balanced party  of  4th-5fch  level.  The  adventure  is set  in  the  southern  land  of  Chondath, and  involves  the  church  of  the  war  dei¬ ty  Tempus.
Background  for  the  DM
Theodoric,  patriarch  of  Tempos,  smiled broadly  as  he  poured  his  guest  another glass  of  wine,  'Tour  lordship  knows  I don't  get  many  visitors,  this  shrine being  far  from  the  major  trade  routes. You  said  you're  a  pilgrim?"
Lord  Yrkhetep  accepted  the  glass  gra¬ ciously.  "Of  a  sort.  This  shrine  looks positively  ancient.  Surely  it  was  built before  your  tenure  here?"
"Surely!  These  walls  once  stood  as  an outpost  for  the  Chessentan  Empire. When  my  duties  have  allowed,  I've made  quite  a  study  of  those  times."
"Do  say"
"Why,  yes.  For  example,  after exhaustive  research.  I've  concluded that  their  war  god,  Tchazzar,  was  actu¬ ally  a...r
As  Lord  Yrkhetep  drained  his  wine, his  gaze,  and  more,  fixed  on  Theodoric, who  fell  insensate  under  his  guest's mental  assault.
"Rise,  Centurion"  Lord  Yrkhetep bade  in  flawless  Old  Chessentan  "  and see  these  troubled  lands  about  us,  The people  rebel  in  their  pride,  and  the strong  arm  of  the  Empire  must  again take  up  sword  and  shield.
"Take  my  staff,  praefectus,  and  gath¬ er  your  forces.  1  will  return  in  a  fort¬ night  with  my  men,  and  we  will  show these  upstarts  what  it  means  to  chal¬ lenge  Chessenta
Lord  Yrkhetep,  a  powerful  arcana- daemon  in  human  guise,  has  gained possession  of  the  Staff  of  Stuffs,  a  pow¬ erful  necromantic  item ,  His  innate  mag¬ ic  resistance  prevented  him  from  using the  staff  himself,  so  he  sought  a  human agent.
He  found  Theodoric,  an  8th  level cleric  serving  Tempus.  Theodoric's  skill in  military  matters  was  typical  of  Tem¬ pus  s  followers;  his  interest  in  the  dim
history  of  the  Chessentan  Empire  was not;  together  they  made  Theodoric  an ideal  pawn  for  the  arcanadaemon.
As  the  adventure  begins.  Lord Yrkhetep  has  psionically  driven Theodoric  insane,  and  has  given  him the  Staff  o f  Skulls  and  compelled  him  to raise  the  dead  and  from  them  fashion  an undead  army  modeled  on  the  old  Ches- senta  Imperial  Guards.
Lord  Yrkhetep  already  has  gathered a  force  of  gnoll  brigands,  intending  to join  them  with  Theodork's  sepulchral legions.
However,  the  PCs  find  themselves involved  with  powers  moving  to counter  the  daemon's  bold  moves.  The oinodaemon  Anthraxus,  suspicious  of Yrkhetep's  ambition,  instructs  his earthbound  agents  to  alert  the  region's militia.  And  Tempus,  irritated  that  his servant  is  being  used,  sends  his  faithful an  omen  to  set  things  aright.
The  Adventure
The  skies  above  Hiath  have  roiled,  dark and  threatening,  since  midmorning, and  the  waves  at  the  docks  crest  high and  white.  But  the  druids,  who  know nature's  moods,  are  conspicuously  pre¬ paring  for  a  dry  day  The  PCs  are  mak¬ ing  their  way  through  the  wide  market square,  dodging  laughing  children  who roll  a  hoop  along  the  cobbles,  when they  hear  a  horse  shriek.  Turning,  they see  a  magnificent  white  mare,  her  nos¬ trils  flared  and  her  eyes  wide  with fright,  pull  free  of  her  owner's  grasp. Still  harnessed  to  a  small  cart,  she  rears and  charges  into  the  square.
A  PC  with  the  Animal  Handling (horse)  non-weapon  proficiency  (see Wilderness  Survival  Guide)  could  try to  calm  the  horse  before  she  injures anyone  in  the  crowd.  To  do  so,  the  PC must  get  alongside  the  mare,  a  difficult task  requiring  a  Dexterity  check  each round  calming  is  attempted.  Then  the character  may  attempt  an  Animal  Han¬ dling  roll,  with  the  standard  +4  "pan¬ icked"  penalty.  A  PC  druid  with  speak with  animals  could  also  attempt  to  qui¬ et  the  horse.  Again,  the  character  must
get  near  her,  and  a  successful  charisma check  will  calm  her.
Or  the  party  may  decide  that  it would  be  safest  to  kill  the  mare.  If injured,  the  mare  will  attack  blindly, biting  any  character  unfortunate enough  to  be  in  front  of  her.  The  cart will  also  sweep  side-to-side,  menacing those  in  the  rear.
Once  the  danger  is  passed,  a  middle- aged  figure  approaches  the  party.  He  is short,  but  muscular,  dark  skinned, balding,  and  has  a  thick  graying  beard, cut  squarely  in  the  Turmish  fashion.  He carries  no  weapons  but  wears  leather armor,  studded  decoratively  in  brass, stained  and  dented  as  though  it  had been  through  many  battles.  In  a  rum¬ bling  bass,  the  man  says,  "Her  master took  her  too  near  the  embalmer's  work¬ shop.  She  has  been  skittish  all  day  and the  smell  of  the  grave  alarmed  her.  But your  part  in  this  fulfills  a  prophecy  one which  hints  of  rich  rewards  for  those  of bold  and  hearty  spirits.  My  name  is Ulliam.  Would  you  care  to  follow  me?"
He  turns  on  his  heel  and  leads  the party  three  blocks  to  a  small  and  simply ornamented  building  at  the  edge  of Math's  dark  side.  "Warriors,  1  bid  you enter  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  of  Battles. Tempus."
The  Offer
The  building  is  a  chapel  devoted  to Tempus.  It  is  clean  and  without  frills. The  walls  of  the  main  chamber  are  oak, decorated  with  weapons  and  armor.  At the  base  of  the  altar  is  a  blood-red  shield bearing  the  blazing  sword  of  Tempus,  A young  acolyte  stands  in  a  side  doorway nervously  twisting  the  sleeves  of  her scarlet  vestments,
Ulliam  bends  his  left  arm  and  salutes her  with  a  smart  slap  to  his  left  forearm. "Elspeth,  would  you  fetch  the  vial  I  pre¬ pared  this  morning?"  The  acolyte  bows and  disappears  into  another  room,  and Ulliam  offers  benches  to  the  party,
"I  serve  Tempus  Foehammer  as  his chaplain  here.  An  omen  accompanied the  spells  he  granted  me  this  morning.  I believe  our  meeting  was  heavy  with
8
Those  who  Forget  the  Past
fate,  and  i  mean  to  persuade  you  to accept  a  mission  holy  to  the  Lord  of Battles*  We  are  poor  here  and  can  offer little  in  the  way  of  gold,  but  if  you  agree to  this  undertaking,  I'U  place  myself and  this  shrine  in  your  debt."  Specifi¬ cally,  Ulliam  is  prepared  to  credit  the party  7,500  gp  worth  of  clerical  serv¬ ices,  redeemable  at  any  time,  but  only in  Hlath.
Elspeth  returns,  gliding  to  UUiam's side,  a  white  day  vial  in  her  hands, Ulliam  speaks.  "1  admit,  my  interpreta¬ tion  of  the  omen  is  dim  and  ill-defined in  its  particulars,  1  do  know,  however, that  you  must  first  seek  out  a  man  I know  as  Theodoric,  a  humble  priest who  tends  a  small  shrine  some  15 leagues  south  of  here.  The  shrine  is  out¬ side  the  small  town  of  Rivers  Run, where  the  Nun  River  sweeps  near  the Chondalwood.  And  you  must  give  him this."  He  hands  the  vial  to  a  PC.  "This  is a  potion  of  health,  an  elixir  possessing the  power  to  restore  both  body  and mind.  Although  I  get  the  impression that  his  needs  are  urgent,  I  cannot  speak of  any  particulars."  If  pressed,  Ulliam will  admit  a  vague  impression  that  the party  should  find  many  allies  on  the way,  but  that's  all  he  might  venture  to guess.  If  the  party  asks,  he  will  also claim  that  Theodoric  is  a  shy  man,  well suited  for  his  solitary  duties*  Ulliam knows  of  Theodoric s  historical  avoca¬ tion,  but  would  not  think  such  informa¬ tion  germane  to  the  situation*
Ulliam  sternly  recommends  that  the party  leave  at  dawn  the  next  day.  If  nec¬ essary,  he  can  buy  them  riding  horses.
Solara,  and
First  Signs  of  Trouble
Deep  storm  clouds  pour  from  the southeast  like  a  great  overhead  ocean. Late  in  the  third  day  of  travel,  lightning cracks  the  heavens,  and  rain  can  be  seen to  the  north,  perhaps  10  miles  behind the  party*  The  horses  have  grown  skit¬ tish,  and  they  are  difficult  to  settle down  for  the  night.  The  setting  sun paints  the  clouds  purple  and  scarlet,  the wind  howls  through  the  tall  grasses.
and  the  Nun  river  splashes  noisily  in  its bed*
Through  the  night,  characters  who are  awake  will  sometimes  feel  as  though they  are  watched  by  something  hiding in  the  darkness,  unheard  over  the  wind.
However,  there  will  be  no  visible  sign of  any  such  thing  until  noon  on  the forth  day,  when  the  party  is  only  a  few hours  away  from  River's  Run.  Then, any  character  making  an  Intelligence check  will  glimpse  shadowy  figures  in the  distance,  sometimes  ahead,  at  other times  on  either  side.
Shortly  after  the  figures  are  noticed, the  party  comes  over  a  hill  to  see  one woman,  her  spear  held  low  and  her right  hand  raised  in  greeting.  Behind her  stand  at  least  five  score  men,  in rough  leather  armor,  all  with  long swords  resting  at  their  sides.  As  the woman  takes  three  steps  toward  the party,  the  sound  of  light  mail  is  heard from  beneath  her  red-brown  tunic.  She throws  back  her  shoulder-length  blond hair  and  says,  "Greetings,  travelers,  on behalf  of  these  lands.  I  am  Solara,  and  I lead  my  people  in  battle.  Who  are  you, who  go  so  proudly  through  these  twice- cursed  plains?"
Solara:  AC  2:  Move  9" ;  R4;  hp  21; #AT  1;  Dmg  by  weapon;  THACO  18; ST  16  IN  14  WI 18  DX  15  CN  15  CH  15 CM  13;  AL  LG.
Solaria  is  5r6"  tall  and  weighs  150 pounds,  most  of  that  muscle.  She  has  a confident  air  about  her,  mostly  for  the benefit  of  her  troops.  She  will  not  take kindly  to  anyone  questioning  her orders  without  a  particularly  good  rea¬ son.  She  wears  chain  mail  under  her tunic,  she  carries  a  shield  +1*  Her favored  weapon  is  her  spear  +2  (she has  weapon  specialization  in  spear). She  also  carries  a  bow,  for  which  she has  12  normal  arrows,  6  arrows  +1, and  one  treasured  arrow  +3,  which casts  an  eerie  green  trail  behind  when shot,  Solara  also  keeps  three  potions with  her;  two  of  them  are  healing,  and the  third  is  her  ace  in  the  hole,  a  potion of  heroism.
At  the  moment,  Solara  isn't  looking for  battle,  but  she  is  curious  why  armed characters  such  as  the  PCs  are  riding here*  And  she's  nervous  enough  to  be edgy.  If  the  party  explains  their  mis¬ sion,  Solara  will  return  the  favor;
"As  you  are  passing  through,  you should  know  then  the  events  of  the  past two  weeks*  It  began  when  a  fanner  in the  town  of  Orbesh  (a  day's  journey west  across  the  Fields  of  Nun)  witnessed something  I  can  only  consider  fantastic; one  of  the  numeri  peditatae,  or  local infantry,  of  the  ancient  Chessentan Empire,  marching  east  in  the  distance. Since  then,  there  have  been  a  score  of similar  rumors,  and  some  of  them appear  reliable*  Now,  I  don't  actually
9
believe  that  Imperial  Chessentan  soldiers are  still  wandering  about  the  countryside, but  there  does  seem  to  be  some  sort  of major  military  action  going  on,  and  so my  Company  of  the  Singing  Dawn  has decided  to  investigate.
"We  would  welcome  your  company  as we  travel,  and  perhaps  your  aid  should troubles  arise.  We  will  rendezvous tomorrow  morning  with  two  other forces,  Uandrydd's  Steel  and  the  Will  of Enhanen,  in  the  village  of  River's  Run.*
The  Company  of  the  Singing  Dawn  is a  small  mercenary  company  that  occa¬ sionally  performs  charity  work,  which in  Solaras  opinion,  promotes  the  cause of  the  group  s  patron  deity,  Lathander. It  is  divided  into  three  units,  each  of  fif¬ ty  fighters:
Solaras  Elite,  commanded  by  Gwyn- dion  the  Bald;  a  tight-lipped  human who  is  suspicious  of  the  PCs,  If  the  PCs and  Solara  disagree,  Gwyndion  will suggest  that  they  should  leave  if  they don't  like  Solaras  ideas.  Gwyndions aide,  Edmund,  is  a  spy  He  is  one  of Anthraxus'  human  agents  and  perhaps the  party's  most  valuable  ally.
Forester  Guards  of  Nun  are  com¬ manded  by  Miebhailar,  an  elf.  He  is friendly  enough,  but  prefers  to  keep himself  busy  rather  than  hobnob  with the  PCs.
The  Spears  of  the  Dawn  are  com¬ manded  by  Randwulf  Doorbane,  a scarred  veteran  of  more  battles  than  he can  count.
If  the  party  wishes  to  leave  the  Com¬ pany  of  the  Singing  Dawn  behind  and travel  on  horseback  to  River's  Run, Solara  advises  against  it.  As  battle- tested  as  the  PCs  are,  they  would  be  lit¬ tle  match  for  a  large,  well-run  military group.  Traveling  with  the  Singing Dawn  will  cost  the  party  only  two hours,  and  Solara  suggests  that  they travel  together.
River's  Run  and the  Rain  of  Terror
Theodorics  studies  showed  that  the  vil¬ lage  of  River's  Run  was  built  almost directly  atop  a  mass  grave  of  Imperial
Chessentan  troops.  Earlier  this  day,  he came  by  Rivers  Run  with  a  force  of  zom¬ bies  and  chased  the  half-dozen  frightened villagers  into  the  woods.  He  then  invoked an  ability  particular  to  his  staff,  calling forth  great  numbers  of  undead,  but  the summons  was  not  answered  immedi¬ ately.  Only  when  daylight  fades  will  the Earth  give  up  her  dead.
Anthraxus  anticipated  this,  and  bade his  pawn  Gwyndion  to  suggest  River's Run  as  a  rendezvous  plate  in  hopes  that the  Company  of  the  Singing  Dawn might  prevent  these  exhumed  recruits from  reaching  Theodoric.
Yrkhetep  is  ignorant  of  such  machi¬ nations.  But  he  did  feel  it  best  to  dis¬ patch  some  guardians  to  watch  over  the macabre  garden.  These  agents,  a  dozen vargouilles,  promptly  slew  the  resi¬ dents  of  River's  Run  and  now  patrol  a forested  area  near  where  the  skeletons lie.
When  the  PCs  arrive  (alone  or  with Solaras  forces),  the  hamlet  of  River's Run  is  deserted .  As  this  place  serves  as  a meeting  place  for  the  few  local  farmers and  trappers,  there  are  but  five  build¬ ings:  a  mill,  a  stable,  a  general  store,  a tavern  with  a  few  rooms,  and  a  private residence.  Nothing  worth  more  than  a few  silver  can  be  found,  and  the  only obvious  dues  indicate  that  the  people left  recently,  quickly,  and  without  vio¬ lence.
Solara  or  PCs  with  Tracking  skill  can locate  the  villagers'  corpses  by  follow¬ ing  their  trail,  searching  the  woods  for half  an  hour,  and  making  three  success¬ ful  tracking  checks.
Most  of  Solara's  men-at-arms  are spooked  by  the  villagers'  disappear¬ ance.  Because  of  this  Solara  suggests camp  be  set  a  few  hundred  yards  away from  the  village.  Her  troops  are  amena¬ ble.
The  clouds  grow  red  and  dark  as  the sunlight  fades,  and  the  Forester  Guards patrol  a  large  perimeter  around  the camp.  Solara  has  asked  Gwyndion  and Randwulf  (as  well  as  any  PC  who insists  on  accompanying  them)  into  her tent  to  discuss  tactics.  The  Spears  of Dawn  gather  firewood,  and  some  of  the
soldiers  prepare  to  cook  dinner.
For  a  moment,  the  entire  sky  flares with  lightning,  and  a  thunderclap explodes  above  the  camp,  echoing  in the  distance.  The  rain  has  begun  at  last, promising  a  drenching  by  morning.  It seems  as  if  things  couldn't  get  worse. Then  the  hands  of  four  score  skeletons break  the  ground,  grabbing  onto  any¬ thing  that  might  help  pull  them  free.
There  are  two  mobs  of  eighty  skele¬ tons  each  springing  up  on  opposite sides  of  the  camp.  Another  ten  skele¬ tons  exhume  themselves  into  Solaras tent.  These  creatures  will  first  attack Gwyndion  and  Randwulf,  and  then attack  opportune  targets  as  the  battle progresses.
The  skeletons  will  have  initiative  the first  round,  but  cannot  move  other  than to  unearth  themselves.  Their  instruc¬ tions  are  to  join  with  Theodorics  other forces  in  the  woods,  and  they  will attempt  to  do  so  at  the  first  opportuni¬ ty.  However,  the  mobs  will  turn  to attack  any  creatures  (except  other undead)  within  6'f  If  a  Discipline  Check fails.  They  also  will  return  any  attacks made  upon  them.
The  surprised  units  are  considered  in open  formation  and  out  of  command. In  these  extreme  circumstances,  they suffer  a  -2  penalty  to  both  discipline and  morale  on  the  first  round.  This  pen¬ alty  falls  to  ^1  on  the  second  round, and  remains  at  -1  until  the  unit  is  put under  command.
The  Forester  Guards  are  not  sur¬ prised  and  are  in  command.  They  will rush  to  their  comrades'  aid.  They  begin 20"  away  from  camp,  in  any  direction the  PCs  like.
In  any  fair  fight,  the  skeletons  would be  a  minor  inconvenience,  but  the  situ¬ ation  is  ripe  for  units  to  rout.  If  this happens,  the  units  will  flee  into  the  for¬ est,  where  the  vargouilles  will  easily  kill them  within  minutes.  This  is  a  battle  of attrition:  can  the  PCs  assume  command over  their  forces,  or  otherwise  keep them  from  routing?  Gwyndion  and Randwulf  will  almost  certainly  be killed,  and  Solara  might  be  busy  for  a long  time.
10
The  firewood  may  be  used  as  dubs by  any  PC  or  unit  in  command  which moves  adjacent  to  the  woodpile  next  to the  campfire.
On  the  third  round  of  combat,  six vargoullles  sweep  in  from  the  woods 15w  north  of  the  camp.  These  horrid creatures  will  attack  any  single  figure, such  as  a  unit  commander  or  hero. (Remember  that  three  rounds  of  indi¬ vidual  combat  occur  for  each  round  of BATTLESYSTEM™  Fantasy  Combat Supplement.)
After  the  battle  is  over,  Solara  tallies her  remaining  forces,  sets  watch,  and tries  to  settle  the  camp.  The  rain  and  the storm  continue  until  the  early  morning.
The  PCs  might  allow  some  of  the skeletons  to  escape,  then  track  them  to their  destination.  Neither  Solara  nor any  of  her  troops  are  in  any  condition to  accompany  the  PCs,  but  her  objec¬ tions  to  their  going  will  be  weak.
Skeletons  which  escape  soon  reach  a path  that  runs  perhaps  twelve  miles through  the  woods.  Characters  follow¬ ing  the  path  to  its  end  see  a  small  build¬ ing,  indistinct  in  the  rain  and  darkness. Small  fires  bum  inside,  their  light  reveals the  silhouette  of  a  terrible  regiment  of skeletons  and  zombies,  all  immobile,  all sleek  in  the  rain,  all  armed  and  armored in  the  archaic  battle  garb  of  old  Chessen- ta.  The  wind  whistles  shrilly  through  the bones  of  three  hundred  skeletons,  carry¬ ing  the  smell  of  carrion.  This  is  a  sight which  ought  to  dissuade  most  parties from  attacking  immediately.  The  PCs will  probably  perish  if  they  attack  before getting  help.
Reinforcements
The  clouds  are  scattered  in  the  sky  the next  morning,  and  when  the  dawning sun  peeks  out,  the  light  reflects  playful¬ ly  off  the  river,  which  runs  high  and fast.  Puddles  are  everywhere,  and  the air  smells  fresh  and  damp.
Minutes  after  dawn  breaks,  march¬ ing  can  be  heard  in  the  west,  and  the banners  of  friendly  troops  come  into view  around  the  edge  of  the  ChondaT wood.
These  are  the  allies  Solara  spoke  of earlier,  Llandrydd  and  Enhanen.
Llandrydd  commands  two  units, Llandrydd  s  Steel,  a  crack  unit  of swordsmen  garbed  in  green  chain  mail, and  Uandrydd's  Auxiliary,  a  pike  unit.
Enhanen  is  a  man  of  high  charisma and  cunning  ways,  who  gathered  to him  a  small,  semi-pennanent  horde  of followers  he  calls  The  Will  of  Enhanen. Enhanen  has  agreed  to  join  the  cause  for the  challenge  of  fighting  legendary Chessenta,  for  glory,  and  for  fame, rather  than  over  concern  for  the  safety of  the  region.
To  Solara  s  surprise,  there  is  also  a company  of  Hybsils.  Their  leader  is  a Hybsil  named  Marcabruk.  Llandrydd has  been  hard-pressed  to  keep  the  little fellows  from  charging  into  the  woods for  the  last  several  days,  and  they  will make  their  impatience  known  as  they wait  of  the  Company  of  the  Singing Dawn  to  ready  itself  to  join  the  arriving forces.
Solara,  Llandrydd,  Enhanen,  Marca¬ bruk,  and  any  PC  who  so  wishes  will meet  together  to  discuss  the  events  of the  past  few  days  and  make  battle plans.  Unless  the  PCs  investigated  after the  battle  last  night,  no  one  knows  just how  strong  Theodoric's  undead  legions are.
During  the  discussions,  Marcabruk  is eager  to  move  on  immediately,  and  sug¬ gests  making  any  necessary  plans  on the  way.  His  scouts  have  detected  a large  group  of  gnolls  somewhere  in  the area.  He  says  if  his  hybsils  found  out about  the  presence  of  their  most  hated foes,  he's  not  certain  how  well  he  could keep  them  from  blindly  charging  to attack.  He  feels  it's  better  to  move  on  as soon  as  possible  to  reduce  the  chances of  running  into  such  troubles.
Solara  then  explains  (or  asks  one  of the  PCs  to  explain)  about  the  attack  on her  forces  last  night.
Llandrydd  reports  that  the  walking dead  have  been  reported  from  lands  to the  south  and  east .  "I'm  afraid  we  ought to  expect  a  force  not  only  directly  con¬ trolled  by  a  tact ically-com pet ent  intelli¬ gence,  but  also  considerably  larger  than
you  fought  last  evening.  Milady"
Enhanen  glares  at  Llandrydd.  "You speak  needlessly,  as  is  your  habit.  Did you  expect  us  to  be  stupid  enough  to miss  that  conclusion?  We're  here  to  pre¬ pare  strategy,  not  marvel  at  your  grasp of  the  obvious."
Also  this  morning,  a  thief  or  monk  in the  party  will  find  a  small  bag  in  his belongings.  The  bag  contains  a  vial  of smoked  glass  filled  with  a  milky  liquid, and  a  note  reading  "I  hope  you  find  this potion  of  wraithform  useful."  One  of Anthraxus's  agents  deposited  the  vial sometime  after  the  fight  last  night.  The potion  acts  just  as  the  third  level  illu¬ sionist  spell  of  the  same  name,  except  it works  for  3-12  (3d4)  rounds.  If  it  lasts for  a  full  12  rounds,  there  is  a  5% chance  that  the  potion  will  perma¬ nently  change  the  imbiber  into  a wraith.
The  Battle
After  the  planning  session,  the  forces move  out.  There  is  an  easily  traveled path  in  the  Chondalwood  which  leads to  Theodoric's  shrine.  If  the  PCs  did  not find  this  place  the  night  before,  Solara (or  a  PC  with  tracking  skill)  will  be  able to  find  tracks  in  the  wet  earth  directing the  army  down  the  path.
The  shrine  is  located  on  high  ground, facing  a  clearing  the  party  must  pass through.  The  area  off  the  map  is  heavi¬ ly  wooded.  The  shrine  itself  was designed  as  a  citadel  for  Imperial  Ches- senta  and  was  taken  over  and  modern¬ ized  by  the  clerics  of  Tempus,  It  is detailed  more  carefully  below, Theodoric's  spectral  legions  surround the  building.
Theodoric's  strategy  in  battle  is  to break  the  center  of  the  enemy  line  and then  wipe  up  the  isolated  remains.  One tactic  he  might  use  is  to  charge  the  cen¬ ter  of  a  unit  with  a  large  frontage,  using the  war  shields  and  spears  in  the  second rank  (see  unit  descriptions)  to  cause immediate  damage.  It  would  be  likely that  the  enemy  would  wrap  around  the skeletons  to  avoid  the  effects  of  a  shield wall.  The  zombies  will  attack  any  ene-
11
my  who  moved  around  the  skeletons. After  a  short,  bloody  fight,  the  undead should  split  the  enemy  line.
Non-charging  units  will  use  their positional  advantage,  moving  just  to the  edge  of  a  contour  line  so  that  the enemy  will  suffer  disadvantages  for attacking  uphill.
On  the  sixth  turn  of  combat,  a  force of  gnolls  (see  Order  of  Battle),  accom¬ panied  by  six  hyaenodons  will  appear in  the  southwest  comer  of  the  board and  advance  to  join  in  battle.  The hyaenodons  will  attack  single  figures  or heroes,  especially  spell  casters.
Theodoric's  Fortress
The  PCs  and  their  allies  are  out-classed. Although  the  humans  might  have  a chance  against  the  undead,  the  gnolls attacking  from  behind  could  over¬ whelm  them.  Clearly,  the  time  is  ripe for  decisive  action.  By  now,  the  party should  have  pieced  together  the  clues that  lead  to  a  meeting  with  (and  ideally the  curing  of)  Theodoric.
The  shrine  is  two  stories  high,  with the  western  half  of  the  roof  open  and level,  providing  a  large  patio.  It  is  an old  building,  the  stone  walls  discolored and  moss-covered  in  places  (doubling  a thief  s  chances  of  slipping).  It  has  been holy  to  Tempus  for  over  four  hundred years  and  has  seen  a  number  of  curates. Its  current  caretaker  assumed  his  duties ten  years  ago,  and  like  his  predecessors has  remade  some  of  the  rooms  accord¬ ing  to  his  personal  taste.
First  Floor
The  entrance  into  the  shrine  is  a  set  of double  doors  on  the  east  wall,  resplen¬ dent  with  brass  etchings  depicting  the deeds  of  Tempus's  warriors.  This  portal is  open,  and  the  shrine  is  dark  and silent.
1.  Parlor  Light  from  outside  shows that  this  foyer  is  tiled  in  coral  and  yel¬ low.  It  is  two-stories  high,  with  a  railed balcony  eight  feet  above  the  ground floor.  The  walls  give  a  hollow  echo  to the  PCs'  footsteps.  Four  doors  can  be
seen,  as  well  as  two  curving  staircases which  join  in  a  landing  leading  to  the level  above.
2*  Sitting  Room  This  room  is  a  con¬ servatory  where  Theodoric  might  join guests  in  conversation.  There  are  com¬ fortable  chairs  with  side  benches,  and unremarkable  landscapes  painted  on the  walls.
3,  Strategy  Chamber  The  center  of this  room  holds  a  large  table,  5  feet  by 10  feet,  covered  with  miniature  military figures.  Theodoric  tests  his  strategy  in simulations  of  historic  battles  here. Currently,  the  figures  on  the  table  are  in the  midst  of  a  siege  of  a  river  city
4*  Kitchen  Rats  scurry  away  from anyone  who  enters.  It  is  otherwise unexceptional*
5.  Breakfast  Room  When  not  enter¬ taining  guests,  Theodoric  eats  alone  in this  room.
6.  Dining  Room  This  room  hasn't been  used  for  quite  some  time,  except  as access  to  other  rooms.  The  walls  dis¬ play  examples  of  archaic  armor,  the table  seats  eight.
7.  Museum  Immediately  before  the party  enters  this  room,  a  shuffling sound  and  a  loud  bump  can  be  heard. Inside  is  Theodorics  collection  of  his¬ torical  relics,  most  of  them  military. Tables  hold  delicately  carved  swords and  spent  wands.  There  are  displays  of great  battles  and  also  great  historical events*  There  is  a  closet  at  the  far  end  of the  room.  The  guardian  of  this  trea¬ sure,  a  necrophidius,  lurks  nearby.
The  monster  will  attack  any  intruders.
g.  Sun  Room  This  room  is  pleasant, with  a  number  of  handsome,  but  urn  wa¬ tered,  plants  and  a  high-back  chair.
9.  Library  The  books  on  these  shelves are  old  but  common,  most  are  thick with  dust.
Second  Floor
10.  Landing  The  balcony  provides  an impressive  view,  the  acoustics  here  pro¬ duce  remarkable  echoes.
11.  Guest  Rooms  These  are  neatly kept,  with  a  bed,  a  desk,  a  chair,  and  a small  altar  to  Tempus  in  each  room.
however  it  is  obvious  that  these  have not  been  used  for  long  time.
As  this  area  is  investigated,  a huecuva  approaches  from  behind. Although  it  is  not  too  bright,  it  has decided  to  polymorph  into  a  rust  mon¬ ster,  hoping  to  attack  a  PC  who  is  afraid to  use  magical  weapons  against  it.  It will  run  away  after  two  rounds.  It  can inflict  no  wound  damage,  but  can  cause disease.  It  will  reappear  in  three rounds,  polymorphed  to  resemble  a PC.  In  this  form,  it  can  only  do  1-6 points  of  damage,  but  its  disease  power is  still  effective.  It  will  attack  until destroyed .
12.  Theodoric's  Chamber  The  door into  this  room  is  locked.  Inside  is  a room  much  like  the  guest  rooms,  but with  personal  effects  scattered  about. There  is  a  delicate  silver  candelabra (weight  8gp,  value  25gp)  holding  two votive  candles  which  act  as  Incense  of Meditation  when  burning.  They  are unlit,  and  Theodoric  is  not  currently under  their  effects.
13.  Chapel  The  second  floor  is  mostly devoted  to  the  chapel  on  its  west  side. The  large  stained-glass  window  casts  a tranquil  amber  light  over  the  room, with  its  martial  decorations.  Several small  anterooms  contain  spare  religious and  military  paraphernalia,  some  of these  rooms  have  been  emptied  to  pro¬ vide  gear  for  the  armies  of  skeletons and  zombies  outside,
14.  The  Staircase  A  long  and  narrow hallway  with  a  wide  window  to  the south  leads  to  an  old  metal  staircase helixing  up  to  the  roof.  The  battle below  is  visible  from  the  window.
The  Roof
This  area  covers  only  the  western  half of  the  building.  Two  ballistas,  in  the southeast  and  northwest  comers,  rest unused.  Although  they  are  operational, and  there  are  three  bolts  for  each, Theodoric  refuses  to  use  them,  as  they were  not  invented  in  the  time  of  the Empire.  In  the  center  of  the  roof  is  a raised  platform,  and  on  the  platform  is a  man  in  bronze  plate  mail  wielding  an
12
ebony  staff  tipped  with  an  ivory  skull.
Theodoric:  ST  12;  IN  14;  WI 16;  DX 13;  CN  16;  CH  13;  CM  13;  AC  1;  Move 6";  CL  8;  hp  57;  #AT  1;  Dmg  staff; THACO  16;  AL  CN;  ring  of  protection +2,  under  the  effects  of  a  potion  of speed.
Spells:  bless ,  cause  feart  command , curse,  penetrate  disguise,  dust  devil hold  person ,  silence  15 1  radius  (z2)r spiritual  hammer ;  dispel  magic ,  magi¬ cs/  uestmenf,  prayer,  cure  serious wounds,  spike  stones
Theodoric  is  quite  mad.  If  a  PC approaches  from  the  air,  Theodoric  will assume  the  PC  is  an  enemy  and  attacks with  ail  his  might.  If,  however,  a  char¬ acter  comes  from  below,  Theodoric will  take  the  PC  to  be  a  comrade  and will  salute.  Anyone  playing  along  with Theodoric's  delusion  might  have  a chance  to  persuade  him  to  give  up  the staff  (and  command  over  the  undead), or  to  join  the  PC  in  a  toast  to  victory,  or some  other  ruse  to  get  him  to  drink Ulliam's  potion.
Assuming  the  PCs  can  either  kill Theodoric  or  (better)  cure  him,  they will  affect  the  outcome  of  the  battle.  If the  Staff  of  Skulk  is  left  without  an owner,  the  undead  immediately become  a  mob  and  attack  any  unit within  6".  (This  is  an  exception  to BATTLESYSTEM™  Fantasy  Combat System  rules  [2,8]  and  [13.9].)
Only  evil  characters  can  control  the staff ,  (Theodoric  has  been  given  a  schiz¬ ophrenia  in  which  his  second  personali¬ ty  is  an  evil  deric  from  the  time  of Imperial  Chessenta.)  If  the  staff  is  bro¬ ken  all  undead  it  has  summoned  imme¬ diately  return  to  their  original  resting places.
Order  of  Battle
Yrkhetep's  Forces
The  Skeleton  Turin  ae  Peditis  wear  the trappings  of  the  ancient  infantry  of  Ches- senta.  They  cany  large,  spiked  shields. The  spikes  can  be  used  as  weapons  in  a charge.  The  spikes  inflict  1-12  points  of damage,  but  at  a  +2  AR  penalty.  After
the  charge,  this  unit  will  form  a  shield wall  (see  BATTLESYSTEM  Fantasy Combat  System  rule  [11.6],  page  20).
The  Skeleton  Spearmen  also  wear ancient  garb.  This  unit  can  join  the  Tur¬ mae  Peditis  in  melee,  attacking  from the  second  rank.
The  Zombie  Auxiliaries  are  elite corpses  armed  with  tridents  and  small shields,
The  Gnoll  Elite  are  armed  with  hal¬ berds.
The  Gnoll  Cowards  are  armed  with battle  axes.
Both  Gnoll  units  have  unnamed  unit commanders  (CR  6" )  Hybsils  are  their hated  enemies.
The  Hyenas  are  a  mob  unit.  They attack  Hybsils  that  come  within  range of  a  charge.  Either  gnoll  unit  can attempt  to  give  them  orders.
The  six  Hyenodons  fight  as  heroes. They  attack  other  heroes  and  spell  cast¬ ers.
Human  Forces
The  Spears  of  Dawn.  Each  fighter wears  chain  mail  and  wields  a  silver- tipped  spear.  When  the  Spears  of  Dawn are  being  paid  for  their  trouble,  their Morale  and  Discipline  rise  to  11.  The unit  is  commanded  by  Randwulf  Door- bane  (CR  10")*  If  he  is  with  any  other unit,  Randwulf's  Command  Radius drops  to  6" .
Forester  Guards  of  Nun.  These  char¬ ismatic  fighters  from  the  towns  border¬ ing  the  Chondalwood  dress  in  studded leather  and  carry  long  swords  and  sim¬ ple  wooden  shields.  They  are  recruited for  their  chivalry  as  well  as  their  brav¬ ery,  and  for  their  grace  and  battle-skill. There  are  no  brutes  among  them.  The Forester  Guards  are  practiced  scouts, possessing  the  elven  ability  to  hide  in natural  terrain.  These  fighters  are  the cause  of  the  PCs'  jitters  the  night  before the  first  battle.  Their  unit  commander  is Miebhailar  (CR  11"),
Solara's  Elite,  These  are  fighters  from the  Plains  of  Nun  whom  Solara  person¬ ally  recruited  and  trained.  They  wear scale  mail  and  carry  shields  blazoned:
Argent,  a  phoenix  rose  between  three keys  vert.  The  long  swords  they  carry each  have  a  dusty  pink  stone  in  the  hilt, This  unit  is  commanded  by  Gwyndion the  Bald  (CR  10").
Uandrydd's  Steel.  This  unit's  stand¬ ard  is  vert,  a  sword  between  two  maun- ches  in  fess,  or.  This  mercenary company  is  slightly  larger  than Solara's,  and  is  renowned  for  precise and  often  unconventional  military  tac¬ tics.  The  soldiers  wear  chain  mail  of  an unusual  (but  non-magical)  green  tint, and  each  soldier  is  skilled  in  the  use  of short  sword  and  dagger  simultane¬ ously.  Llandrydds  Steel  can  make  two attacks  per  combat  round,  once  with each  weapon.  The  second  AR  reflects the  penalty  for  attacking  in  such  a  man* ner.  The  unit  is  commanded  by  Llan- drydd  Wyvernheart,  whose  epithet hints  at  his  speed  in  battle  and  his  repu¬ tation  for  a  deadly  sting.  Uandrydd  is  a large  and  powerful-looking  man,  35 years  old,  wearing  a  worn  and  stained tan  tunic  with  the  company's  arms  dis¬ played  over  the  heart.  His  authority  is palpable,  and  he  has  won  many  allies during  his  career.  He  always  remains with  his  unit,  and  has  a  CR  14",  a  Cha¬ risma  of  18,  and  15  hit  points.
Llandrydd  s  Auxiliary.  This  a  compa¬ ny  of  pikemen  who  dress  in  leather armor.  Since  they  can  attack  from  the second  or  third  rank,  Uandrydd's  Steel will  often  wrap  around  the  pike  unit and  face  outward,  a  lethal  block  of steel.  Nevertheless,  the  pikemen  are treated  as  second-class  members  of  the company,  cowards  who  must  hide behind  the  real  men.  Their  unit  com¬ mander  Cercamon  (CR  8" )  is  the  butt  of many  jokes  in  the  swordsmen's  camp.
The  Autnak  Tribe  is  a  group  of hybsils.  These  hardy  little  fellows  get +4  on  all  saving  throws.  They  are armed  with  daggers  and  short  bows. Their  arrows  are  coated  with  a  sleep poison  ( —  4  to  save).  Their  commander is  Marcabruk  (CR  10" ).
13
Human  Forces
Unit  Name
Type
Lvl
AC
HD/Fig
MV
AR
ML
DL
#Fig
Dmg
The  Spears  of  Dawn
Inf
Fl
5
10
9"
20
10
9
5
ld6
Forester  Guards  of  Nun
Inf
FI
5
10
9”
19
11
10
5
ld8
SoJara's  Elite
Inf
F3
5
30
9"
18
11
12
5
ld8
Llandrydd's  Steel
Inf
F2
5
20
9"
19/21
12
11
15
Id6/ld4
Llandrydd's  Auxiliary
Inf
Fl
8
10
12"
20
10
10
8
ld6
Will  of  Enhanen
Inf
Bl
4
10
12"
17
16
8
14
ld8
Autunak  Tribe
Inf
Hyb
7
10
15"
20
9
10
6
Id4/ld3
Yrkhetep's  Forces
Unit  Name
Type
Lvl
AC
HD/Fig
MV
AR
ML
DL
#Ffg
Dmg
Skeleton  Mob
Inf
Ske
7
10
12"
24
11
10
8
ldo
Skeleton  Turmae  Peditis
Inf
Ske
6
10
12"
22
9
11
4
ld6
Skeleton  Spearmen
Ske
Ml
7
10
12"
22
9
s
6
ld6
Zombie  Auxiliaries
Zmb
M2
7
20
6"
16
11
8
16
ld8
Gnoll  Elite
Inf
Gnoils
5
20
9"
16
12
8
10
ldlO
Gnoll  Cowards
Inf
Gnoils
5
20
9"
17
6
8
10
ld8
Hyenas
Inf
Hyenas
7
30
12"
18
11
8
6
ldlO
Hyenadons
Inf
Hdon
7
5
12"
30
10
9
6
3d4
The  Hand  of  Tyr
The  Battle  of  Urml
In  thunder  they  came The  hordes  of  war And  rent  the  hills With  the  cries  of  bhodlust On  steel-shod  beasts That  beat  a  tattoo Of  death  and  destruction On  innocent  breasts
The  horns  were  blown The  clarion  calling And  men  left  their  wives And  children  crying To  mount  their  steeds 7b  meet  the  invaders Whose  numbers  seemed  endless From  the  foothills  streaming
Then  white-robed  clerics Fell  down  on  skinned  knees And  prayed  to  Tyr The  God  of  justice To  right  the  scales To  stop  the  swinging Of  goblin  axes Slippery  with  gore
'Twos  then  a  hush
Fell  o'er  the  village
And  all  eyes  together
Goblin  and  mankind
In  the  space  of  a  heartbeat
Turned  towards  the  mountains
A  tall  stony  finger
The  peak  named  Tyfs  Watch
For  there  standing  proud At  the  top  of  the  summit A  man  in  white  armor With  white  horse  beneath  hint Right  hand  extended Raised  toward  the  heavens Sunlight  reflecting From  a  fist  of  bright  steel
Then  stinftly  he  galloped Into  the  battle And  pointing  his  hand The  hand  of  bright  metal He  called  down  the  lightning To  strike  the  invaders And  goblin  screams  mixed With  cheers  of  the  townfolk
And  fear  filled  the  faces Where  once  there  was  bhodlust
As  goblin  smote  goblin And  steed  attacked  steed The  air  filled  with  smoke And  green  droplets  flying As  the  battle  was  turned And  the  raiders  repelled
The  battle  was  ended And  slowly  the  victors Emerged  from  their  quarters To  search  for  survivors Or  bury  the  dead But  no  sign  could  be  found Of  the  man  in  white  armor *Cept  a  fist  of  bright  steel In  a  puddle  of  blood
(A  recounting  of  the  Battle  of  Urml  as penned  by  Galenous  the  Bard  and taught  to  all  children  of  the  Church  of Tyr)
Background  {100  years  ago)
The  small  settlement  of  Urml,  nestled  in the  southwestern  comer  of  the  Orsraun Mountains  had  long  been  a  haven  for artisans  and  scholars  of  every  ilk. Those  wishing  to  escape  the  hustle  and
15
The  Hand  of  T yr
bustle  of  the  larger  cities  and  desiring  a quiet  haven  to  study  and  create  found Urml  to  be  idea] ,
Sculptors,  painters,  poets,  architects, metal  smiths,  wood  workers,  glass- blowers,  potters,  and  stone  masons together  with  the  scribes  and  clerics  of the  new  religion  of  Tyr  combined  their skills  and  erected  buildings  that  would symbolize  the  artistic  and  religious  free¬ dom  of  the  village.  A  large  school  and library,  dubbed  the  "Keep  of  Knowl¬ edge/'  was  established  to  instruct  young apprentices  in  the  finer  arts.  Across  the street,  a  beautiful  cathedral  to  the  god Tyr  was  built,  where  those  of  any  reli¬ gion  could  come  to  pray  and  meditate.
Thus  it  was  that  many  travelers  from Ormath  to  Hlondeth  made  an  out-of- the-way  stop  in  Unml  either  to  acquire  a high  quality  object  of  art  at  one  of  the indoor  or  outdoor  shops,  or  to  marvel at  the  twin  structures.
As  word  of  the  village  spread throughout  the  area,  UnnI  found  itself in  a  unique  position.  Merchants  from the  north  offered  high  prices  for  all  the items  the  residents  could  produce,  and the  swelling  ranks  of  applicants  for  the school  and  church  threatened  to  turn the  small  community  into  a  major metropolis.
A  meeting  of  the  town  council  was held  to  discuss  Urmi's  fate.  Should  the village  to  allowed  to  expand  and  per¬ haps  become  that  which  most  of  the inhabitants  had  escaped  from,  or should  it  retain  its  small  town  size  and flavor?  As  one,  the  townfolk  voted  to keep  Urml  as  it  was.  Only  those  stu¬ dents  who  showed  the  most  skill  or  reli¬ gious  fervor  were  allowed  to  study  at the  church  and  school,  and  anyone desiring  to  reside  in  Urml  had  to  first  be approved  by  the  council.
But  with  one  problem  solved, another  appeared,  A  large  goblin  band, calling  themselves  the  Bloodier  Teeth, had  heard  stories  of  the  town's  wealth and  prosperity.  Down  from  the  moun¬ tains  came  Na-Nose,  their  leader,  and several  of  his  henchmen  to  demand  that the  town  pay  them  a  tribute  for  "protec¬ tion."  When  the  council  unanimously
rebuked  his  offer.  No-Nose  spat  at  their feet  and  threatened  to  level  the  town. Urml  had  nothing  in  the  way  of  a  mili¬ tia,  but  with  this  threat  the  citizens decided  that  something  should  be  done to  protect  the  town  which  they  had worked  so  hard  to  create.  Mercenaries and  horses  were  called  from  Westgate to  instruct  the  villagers  in  the  arts  of  rid¬ ing  and  fighting.  But  before  the  lessons could  be  completed,  the  goblins  struck.
No-Nose,  hearing  of  the  arrival  of men  and  horses  in  Urml,  hastily  con¬ tacted  all  the  goblin,  ore,  troll,  and kobold  tribes  in  the  area.  Lured  by  the promise  of  vast  wealth  and  easy  pick¬ ings,  the  tribes  forgot  their  petty  differ¬ ences  and  banded  together  for  a  raid  on the  town.  Sweeping  down  from  the mountains  on  horses,  mountain  goats, dire  wolves,  and  wild  boars  the  goblin army  swiftly  overran  the  village.  Those villagers  who  could  ride  and  fight  made a  valiant  effort  to  repel  the  attack,  but they  were  overcome  by  sheer  numbers.
Then  something  happened.  Abrupt¬ ly,  a  hush  fell  over  the  town  as  if  all sound  had  been  sucked  from  the  air, Man  and  monster  fearfully  turned toward  the  mountains  to  behold  a  lone fighter,  dressed  in  shining  white  armor and  mounted  on  a  pure  white  horse, descending  into  the  village;  his  raised right  hand  was  encased  in  gleaming metal  that  painfully  reflected  the  sun's rays  into  the  the  combatants'  eyes.
Reaching  the  village,  the  stranger kicked  his  horse  into  action  and charged  directly  into  the  midst  of  the goblins.  Bolts  of  lightning  seemed  to  fly from  his  steel  gauntlet,  striking  and  kill¬ ing  the  invaders  without  mercy.  So great  was  the  goblins'  fear  that  in  their haste  to  escape  they  were  soon  attack¬ ing  and  killing  each  other.  Inspired  by the  appearance  of  the  stranger,  the  vil¬ lagers  soon  sent  the  remaining  creatures scurrying  back  to  their  lairs.  Although the  casualties  had  been  heavy,  the  town had  been  saved.
The  clerics  of  Tyr,  who  had  been praying  for  deliverance  during  the  bat¬ tle,  rushed  from  the  church  when  they heard  cheers  of  victory,
16
As  the  story  of  the  savior  in  white armor  was  repeated,  all  began  search¬ ing  for  the  warrior  to  offer  their  thanks. But  no  sign  of  man  or  horse  could  be found.  Devron,  a  scribe  of  the  church, happened  to  notice  something  gleaming in  a  pool  of  blood  and  gore.  He  gingerly retrieved  the  object,  a  shiny  metal gauntlet.
This  was  all  the  proof  the  clerics  of Tyr  needed.  The  savior,  they  said,  was in  actuality  the  god  Torm  sent  by  Tyr  to deliver  justice  in  answer  to  their  pray¬ ers.  He  left  the  gauntlet  as  a  sign  that the  town  was  under  his  protection.
As  the  rest  of  the  townspeople  spent the  next  few  weeks  repairing  the  dam¬ age  and  beefing  up  their  militia,  the clerics  built  an  ornate  glass  shrine  to house  the  gauntlet.  Months  passed  and the  impact  of  of  the  white  warriors assistance  dimmed  in  the  eyes  of  some and  grew  in  the  hearts  of  others,  caus¬ ing  a  rift  to  develop.  On  one  side  were those  who  had  lost  husbands,  sons  and fathers  in  the  battle  and  insisted  on  a strong  and  well-armed  militia  to  pre¬ vent  further  raids  on  the  town.  On  the other  side  were  the  clerics  who  insisted that  such  a  show  of  force  was  not  need¬ ed,  as  Tyr  would  send  Torm  to  reclaim his  gauntlet  and  again  intervene  if  the need  arose  .
Introduction
The  Hand  of  Tyr  is  designed  for  a  group of  4-8  characters  of  6-7th  level.  The group  should  consist  of  several  fighters and  at  least  one  cleric.  Magic-users, while  helpful,  are  not  necessary.  The action  centers  around  a  festival  and battle  reenactment  to  be  held  in  the town  of  Urml,  located  at  the  southern base  of  the  Orsraun  Mountains  on  the Forgotten  Realms  map.  At  the  start  of the  adventure  it  is  the  referee's  job  to play  up  the  festival  as  much  as  possible. The  object  is  to  generate  excitement  so the  PCs  will  believe  this  is  one  event they  will  not  want  to  miss.
The  Hand  of  Tyr
The  Beginning
The  adventurers,  newly  arrived  in Ormath,  are  seated  at  a  law  oval  table in  the  Inn  of  Seven  Stars.  The  inn  is  one of  several  fine  establishments  in  this bustling  municipality.  It  caters  to  the needs  of  travelers  and  city  dwellers alike.  Hot  meals,  strong  drink,  hot baths,  clean  sheets,  and  an  appreciative ear  for  boasts  and  complaints  can  all  be had  at  the  Inn  of  Seven  Stars.
As  the  party  sets  about  devouring their  noonday  meal  of  roast  mutton, stewed  potatoes,  candied  yams  and sweetbread,  the  bell  over  the  entrance rings,  and  a  slight  man  carrying  several rolled  up  parchments  under  one  arm enters.  He  pauses  at  the  doorway  to beat  the  dust  from  his  simple  woolen garments,  and  his  eyes  scan  the  interior, settling  on  Ethran,  the  proprietor.  He quickly  makes  his  way  to  the horseshoe-shaped  bar,  drops  his  bun¬ dles,  unrolls  one  of  the  parchments  and shoves  it  in  Ethran  s  face.  After  several seconds  of  fast  talk  and  animated  ges¬ tures,  Ethran  gives  a  nod  of  consent  and the  stranger,  handing  over  the  parch¬ ment,  tips  his  hat  and  settles  himself  on one  of  the  stools.
Ethran  turns  and  tacks  the  parch¬ ment  to  a  wall  behind  the  bar.  The parchment  advertises  an  upcoming  fes¬ tival.  Several  patrons  duster  around, excitedly  pointing  to  the  colorful  adver¬ tisement,  and  talking  animatedly  with the  stranger  and  each  other.  If  the  PCs manage  to  squeeze  through  the  crowd they  will  be  able  to  read:
"Come  One!  Come  All  1  In  Celebra¬ tion  of  the  100th  Anniversary  of  the Battle  of  Urml  We  Are  Pleased  to Announce  For  Your  Amusement  and Gratification  a  Festival  to  be  Held  in  the Town  of  Urml  This  Feast  of  the  Moon Day  of  Uktar!  A  Wonderful  Time  is Guaranteed  For  All  Who  Attend!  Pur¬ chase  Beautiful  and  Exotic  Items  at  Our Many  Shops  and  Bazaarsl  Partake  of Foodstuffs  and  Delicacies  Most  Deli¬ cious!  Quench  Your  Thirst  With  Wines and  Ales  Brewed  to  Perfection!  Enjoy Jugglers,  Clowns,  Magicians,  Acro¬
bats,  Puppeteers,  and  Story  Tellers! Marvel  at  Strange  and  Fearsome  Beasts Caged  and  Displayed!  As  a  Very  Spe¬ cial  Event  We  Will  be  Presenting  a  True Re-creation  of  the  Battle  of  Urml!  All Those  Skilled  in  Horsemanship  and Weaponry  are  Invited  to  Participate! This  is  Not  to  be  Missed T
With  much  bragging  and  boasting, the  bar  patrons  make  plans  to  attend the  event.  Play  up  this  in  a  big  way,  as the  PCs  should  be  caught  up  in  the excitement  and  want  to  attend  as  well. The  stranger,  who  introduces  himself  as Emric  of  Urml  can  relate  the  following information.  The  festival  will  begin  in one  week  and  last  for  four  days.  From Ormath  to  Urml  is  about  a  2  1/2  day ride,  but  the  countryside  is  flat  grass¬ lands  and  the  going  is  very  smooth. There  are  several  boarding  houses  set up  in  Urml  just  for  the  event,  as  well  as a  huge  campground  for  those  who  pre¬ fer  to  sleep  under  the  stars.  The  Battle of  Urml,  which  took  place  one  hundred years  ago  between  the  town  forces  and bands  of  goblins  will  be  recreated  on  an expansive  field  next  to  the  festival  site. Anyone  can  participate,  playing  the part  of  the  town  militia  or  the  goblin hordes,  Rea)  weapons  and  horses  will be  used,  but  everything  will  be  careful¬ ly  staged  to  prevent  bloodshed.
Emric,  who  is  a  member  of  the  cur¬ rent  Urml  militia,  will  try  to  answer  any questions  the  characters  have.  If  they ask  him  about  the  Battle  of  Urml,  how¬ ever,  he  will  not  mention  the  white  war¬ rior  or  relate  anything  about  the  Hand of  Tyr.  During  the  intervening  years, the  official  story  of  the  battle  has changed(see  below).  After  talking  with the  party,  Emric  will  beg  their  leave  to resume  putting  up  posters*  For  the  next few  days,  the  entire  town  of  Ormath will  be  abuzz  with  talk  of  the  festival.
The  Road  to  Urml
The  distance  between  Ormath  and Urml  is  approximately  270  miles* Assuming  that  the  party  is  traveling light  and  does  not  make  unnecessary stops,  they  should  average  60  miles  a
day  on  horseback.  The  road,  winding through  the  Shining  Plains,  is  little more  than  a  path,  worn  down  over  the years  by  the  weight  of  horses  and  wag¬ ons.  Because  of  a  drought  during  the past  months,  the  grassy  plains  are brown  and  very  dry.  The  following encounters  might  take  place  during  the characters'  trip*  DMs  should  use  their own  judgment  in  deciding  which encounters  to  use,  and  where  and  when they  occur.
Encounters
Daylight
I*  Drunken  Horsemen Loud  shouts  and  galloping  horses  come from  the  road  behind*  Six  men  on horseback  are  bearing  down  on  the  par¬ ty,  waving  swords  and  ale  bottles.  The men  are  very  drunk  and  sway  alarm¬ ingly  in  their  saddles  as  they  fight  a tribe  of  delirium-induced  goblins.  They ride  directly  down  the  center  of  the road,  oblivious  to  the  party,  shouting war  cries  and  urging  their  mounts  to  go faster*  There  is  a  45%  chance  that  one of  the  riders  will  fall  from  his  horse within  10  yards  of  the  party.  The  fallen drunk  will  lay  sprawled  on  the  road while  his  fellows  continue  on  their  mer¬ ry  way.  The  party  can  revive  the  uncon¬ scious  fellow  with  a  neutralize  or  slow poison  spell.  If  they  do  so,  he  will  bel¬ ligerently  tell  the  PCs  he  is  on  his  way to  the  festival  to  fight  goblins,  then order  them  to  get  out  of  his  way.  This said,  he  will  stagger  down  the  road, holding  his  head  and  shouting  "Wait  for me!"  If  the  party  attempts  to  stop  the others  before  they  can  do  any  damage, they  must  first  rein  in  the  horses  and bring  them  to  a  stop.  All  the  drunks  will be  hostile,  and  some  might  even  attack. Any  lecture  on  the  evils  of  drinking  the party  might  deliver  to  the  men  will  be met  with  downcast  eyes  and  mumbled curses.
Drunks  (6);  AC  10;  Move  12"  (24" when  mounted);  HD  F0;  hp  3  each;  #AT 1;  Ding  Knife;  THAC0  2d  20;  AL  N;  SA greatly  intoxicated  (see  DMG  page  82) .
17
2.  Alfrendo
At  the  side  of  the  road  are  a  string  of four  gaily  painted  wagons.  The  words, "Alfrendo's  Mythical  Menagerie"  are painted  in  huge  letters  on  the  side  of each  wagon.  A  beefy,  red-faced  man squats  next  to  the  last  wagon,  shaking his  fist  at  a  broken  wheel.  The  man  is Alfrendo  Galona.  The  wagons  contain the  mythical  creatures  from  his  show. Alfrendo  was  on  his  way  to  exhibit  his creatures  at  the  festival  when  a  rut  in the  road  caused  him  to  lose  a  wheel.  If the  party  stops  to  help  him  fix  his  wag¬ on,  he  will  thank  them  profusely  and offer  them  a  free  look  at  his  creatures.
All  four  wagons  are  barred  in  the front  and  covered  with  tarps  to  keep out  prying  eyes.  The  first  contains  a chimera,  which  has  been  dedawed, defanged,  and  deprived  of  its  ability  to breathe  flame;  it  is  fat,  lazy,  and  harm¬ less.
The  next  wagon  contains  a  gargoyle. When  it  sees  the  party,  the  gargoyle  will go  berserk,  screaming  and  shaking  the bars  of  his  cage.  There  is  a  55%  chance that  it  will  pull  loose  the  already  weak¬ ened  bars  and  attack  the  group.
The  next  wagon  contains  a  sleeping harpy.  The  harpy  is  gagged  and  her wings  have  been  dipped.
The  last  wagon  contains  a  frightened baby  copper  dragon  named  Cueperia. Alfrendo  will  pet  the  creature  and  talk to  it  in  a  soothing  voice  in  an  attempt  to calm  it.  After  a  while  the  creature  will lick  his  hand,  curl  up  in  a  ball  and  dose Its  eyes.
3*  Thieves
Seven  pickpockets,  headed  to  the  fes¬ tival  to  ply  their  trade,  are  walking down  the  road.  They  will  hail  the  party as  they  approach.  While  some  of  the members  innocently  ask  for  directions and  make  small  talk,  two  of  the  thieves will  try  to  rifle  the  characters'  saddle bags,  taking  any  valuables  that  they can  get  their  hands  on.  If  they  are caught  in  the  act,  they  will  daim  that the  item(s)  fell  out  of  the  bags  and  they were  just  putting  them  back.  Then  they will  quickly  walk  away
Pickpockets  (7);  AC  7  {dexterity bonus);  Move  12";  HD  T3;  hp  10  each; #AT  1;  Dmg  dagger;  THACO  2d  20;  AL N;  SA  pick  pockets  45%,  other  thief abilities.
4 *  Stampede
A  herd  of  25  wild  cattle,  grazing  next to  the  road,  will  be  frightened  into  a stampede  by  the  appearance  of  the  par¬ ty  and  their  horses.  There  is  a  25% chance  that  they  will  run  directly  at  the party.  If  this  occurs,  roll  2d4  for  each member  of  the  party  in  the  path  of  the stampede  to  find  out  how  many  cattle trample  each  party  member.  Mounts cannot  be  trampled,  but  their  riders must  make  a  dexterity  check  or  lose their  seats  and  be  trampled.  A  cavalier or  other  character  with  riding  skill  may check  Ms  skill  instead  of  his  dexterity  if he  wishes.
Night
1.  Fire
As  the  PCs  prepare  to  settle  in  for  the night,  they  will  see  a  plume  of  thick gray  smoke  appear  over  the  horizon,  A few  minutes  later,  one  of  the  drunks from  Daytime  encounter  #1  will  ride into  their  camp  screaming  "Fire!  Fire!" When  the  drunks  made  their  campfire, they  neglected  to  ring  it  with  stones  and the  dry  grasses  went  up  in  flames.  They are  too  inebriated  to  put  it  out  and  will just  run  around  in  circles  yelling  and screaming.
The  party  has  three  turns  to  take action.  If  they  fight  the  fire  they  will  be able  to  smother  the  flames  before  they spread  too  far  (using  blankets,  shoveled dirt,  water,  etc.)  If  they  fail  to  fight  the fire  it  will  devastate  a  circle  25  miles across,  moving  outward  at  a  rate  of  36  w a  turn.  Anyone  caught  in  the  blaze  suf¬ fers  3*24  (3d8)  points  of  damage.
2.  Ra  ts
During  the  night,  four  curious  pack rats  will  infiltrate  the  camp  looking  for food  and  any  small  shiny  objects  (but¬ tons,  buckles,  and  jewelry  being favored).  If  they  are  not  detected,  they
will  make  off  with  their  prizes  and  leave rocks  or  small  sticks  in  return.
3.  Runaway
While  eating  their  evening  meal,  one PC  will  see  a  small  figure  standing  a  few yards  from  the  camp.  If  the  PCs  are friendly,  the  young  boy  will  gladly approach  and  ask  to  share  some  of  their food.  Reluctantly,  he  will  tell  the  group that  his  name  is  Rudox,  he  is  11  years old,  and  that  he  ran  away  from  his home  in  Ormath  to  see  the  festival because  his  parents  were  "too  mean"  to take  him.
Rudox  will  beg  the  group  to  let  him go  to  the  festival  with  them,  promising to  be  on  his  best  behavior.  If  the  group declines  his  offer,  Rudox  will  go  on  his own.  If  the  party  tries  to  take  him home,  he'll  threaten  to  just  run  away again.  If  the  party  allows  Rudox  to  go with  them,  they'U  be  sorry,  Rudox  will want  to  stay  up  ail  night  talking  and asking  questions,  play  with  the  charac¬ ters'  weapons,  bother  the  horses,  and make  a  general  nuisance  of  himself.  The party  should  be  all  too  happy  to  finally get  rid  of  him.
Rudox:  AC  10;  Move  12" ;  HD  FQ;  hp 2;  #AT  none;  Dmg  none;  THACO  2d 20;  AL  N.
4.  Ogre
During  the  night  an  ogre,  recently banished  from  his  tribe  in  the  Orsraun Mountains,  will  sneak  up  on  the  camp¬ site  in  an  attempt  to  kill  the  group  and steal  their  possessions.  The  ogre  is armed  with  a  spear  and  stone  club  and is  mean-tempered  enough  to  fight  to  the death.  If  subdued,  the  ogre  will  reveal some  important  information  in  ex¬ change  for  his  life:  He  was  banished from  his  tribe  for  accidentally  killing the  chief's  brother  during  war  practice. He  has  no  love  for  his  former  tribe  and will  tell  the  party  that  they  are  planning something  big  to  teach  Urml  a  lesson. This  is  all  the  information  he'll  give them,  except  to  say  that  the  big  plan will  take  place  during  the  festival.
IS
Urml  Today
Urml  is  a  small  community  of  about  800 nestled  in  the  southwestern  foothills  of the  Orsraun  Mountains.  Most  of  the villagers  are  craftspeople,  specializing in  weapons,  armor,  and  other  military items.  The  rest  are  students  at  the  col¬ lege  or  farmers.  The  main  attractions  in Urml,  apart  from  the  high-quality  mer¬ chandise,  are  two  large  twin  buildings built  well  over  a  hundred  years  ago. The  first  is  a  school  and  library  dubbed the  Keep  of  Military  Knowledge  (for¬ merly  the  Keep  of  Knowledge).  Here students  from  all  over  come  to  train  in the  use  of  weaponry  and  hone  their fighting  skills.  Across  the  street  is  the Temple  of  Tyr.  This  building  is  in  a  state of  disrepair,  and  those  who  attend  the services  are  few;  possibly  due  to  the fanatical  nature  of  the  church  elders (see  below),
Urml  maintains  a  300-man  militia composed  of  townspeople,  fanners from  the  small  wheat  farms  that  sur¬ round  the  community  and  students  at the  military  college.  Raids  from  the goblin  gangs  that  dwell  in  the  Orsraun Mountains  are  almost  nonexistent  as  a result  of  this  force.
The  Festival
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  town  of  Urml is  in  a  festive  spirit.  Paper  banners  and streamers  decorate  all  the  streets  and shops;  push  carts  filled  with  delicious smelling  delicacies  compete  with  street merchants  hawking  their  wares. Almost  any  item  the  characters  wish  to purchase  can  be  found  at  one  of  the shops  or  booths,  often  at  greatly reduced  prices.  Signs  advertising "Room,  Board  &  Bath"  are  prominently posted  in  front  of  the  four  inns  as  well as  at  severed  of  the  larger  dwellings.
A  campground  has  been  set  up  in  a large  field  to  the  north  of  town.  Next  to the  campground,  large  colorful  tents have  been  erected  to  hold  the  shows and  attractions.
To  the  south  of  the  fairgrounds,  a large  open  area  has  been  roped  off.
Inside  the  ropes,  demonstrations  of  rid¬ ing  and  fighting  skills  are  being  con¬ ducted  under  the  supervision  of Creosoe,  a  militiaman.  Creosoe  is  also in  charge  of  the  battle  of  Urml  reenact¬ ment,  If  the  party  loiters  here  for  more than  a  few  minutes,  or  begins  asking questions  or  making  comments  about the  demonstrations,  Creosoe  approach¬ es  them.
Creosoe,  a  crusty  old  white- must  ached  general,  whose  craggy  face bears  the  scars  of  many  battles,  will explain  to  the  party  that  he  wants  to make  the  mock  battle  look  as  realistic as  possible,  but  he  does  not  want  any¬ one  to  get  hurt.  He  will  be  in  charge  of the  militia  forces,  but  he  needs  some people  with  good  leadership  qualities  to keep  the  untrained  volunteers  who  will play  the  goblin  forces  under  control.
Creosoe  will  ask  PCs  if  they  would  be willing  to  organize  the  volunteers  and run  them  through  their  paces.  This would  also  be  a  good  time  to  weed  out any  potential  troublemakers  or  those that  might  hurt  themselves.
If  the  PCs  agree,  he  will  ask  the  PCs to  meet  him  here  on  the  battlefield  two days  before  the  reenactment.  He  will have  their  troops  ready.  If  the  charac¬ ters  have  not  yet  secured  lodging,  he will  invite  them  to  make  use  of  one  of the  dormitory  rooms  in  the  keep.  If  the players  gained  any  information  from the  ogre  (see  Night  Encounters  #4)  and mention  anything  about  it  to  Creosoe, he  will  dismiss  it  as  utter  nonsense. Creosoe  is  very  hard-headed  and  is  sure the  goblins  wouldn't  dare  try  anything with  his  militia  around.
The  Keep  of  Military  Knowledge
Several  young  men  in  highly-polished plate  mail  stand  in  front  of  this  beauti¬ ful  three-story  stone  and  glass  build¬ ing.  The  men  will  conduct  tours  of  the keep  for  any  interested  visitors*
Inside  are  several  displays  of  weap¬ onry  in  glass  cases,  a  huge  library  of military  tactics  and  history,  several classrooms,  dormitory  rooms  where out-of-town  students  stay,  shops  and
19
The  Hand  of  Tyr
forges  where  the  making  of  weapons and  armor  is  taught,  and  a  large  room containing  a  simulated  battlefield.  As Thomas,  the  tour  guide,  points  out  the various  items  of  interest  in  the  building, he  will  relate  the  story  of  the  Battle  of Urml,  The  currently  accepted  version has  the  brave  villagers,  under  the  guid¬ ance  of  the  then  newly  formed  militia, rising  up  to  turn  back  the  hordes  of  gob¬ lins  that  threatened  to  overrun  the town,  No  mention  is  made  of  the  inter¬ vention  of  a  white-armored  stranger  or the  Hand  of  Tyr,  This  story  is  now believed  to  be  nothing  more  than  a  folk tale.
After  the  tour,  Thomas  will  ask  the PCs  if  they  are  interested  in  participat¬ ing  in  the  mock  battle  of  Urml.  Experi¬ enced  men  are  needed  to  lead  the opposing  forces,  and  being  a  good judge  of  men,  he  thinks  the  party  will do  nicely.  If  they  agree,  he  will  take them  out  to  the  field  behind  the  college (see  above)  where  mock  battles  and  dis¬ plays  of  horsemanship  are  being  con¬ ducted  for  the  tourists,  and  introduce them  to  Creosoe.
The  Temple  of  Tyr
At  first  glance,  this  three-story  stone structure  across  the  street  from  the Keep  of  Military  Knowledge  seems  to be  an  identical  twin.  Closer  examina¬ tion,  however,  reveals  cracks  in  the walls,  crumbling  mortar,  broken  win¬ dows,  and  a  weed-choked  yard.  In front  of  the  temple,  an  elderly,  bald priest  of  in  threadbare  white  robes  is trying  to  interest  passersby  in  one  of  the papers  he  is  holding.
When  he  sees  the  characters,  he  will beg  them  to  take  one  of  his  pamphlets and  read  the  "true  story"  of  the  Battle  of Urml,  zeroing  in  on  the  party  cleric  if there  is  one.  The  pamphlet  is  a  printing of  the  poem  "The  Battle  of  Urml"  and whether  the  PCs  take  it  and  read  it,  he will  launch  into  his  version  of  the  battle (see  Background)*
Ponton,  the  cleric,  will  end  his  recita¬ tion  with  the  statement  that  he  has  had visions  in  which  Tyr  appeared  to  him
and  told  him  he  would  punish  the  blas¬ phemers  for  besmirching  his  deeds. Ponton  delivers  his  speech  in  a  high, thin  voice  verging  on  hysteria.  He seems  to  be  a  religious  nut,  but  he knows  the  truth  and  is  extremely  frus¬ trated  that  over  the  years  the  town  has turned  its  collective  back  on  his  teach¬ ings  in  favor  of  weapons  and  armor. Ponton  took  his  training  under Devron,  a  cleric  at  the  time  of  the  origi¬ nal  battle.  As  he  grew  up  within  the church,  he  watched  the  membership steadily  decline  and  the  visitors  to  see the  Hand  of  Tyr  dwindle  to  a  trickle.  He believes  this  to  be  the  cause  of  death  of his  mentor,  and  will  do  anything  to right  what  he  feels  is  an  injustice.
If  the  characters  show  any  interest  in his  story,  he  will  invite  them  in  to  see the  Hand  of  Tyr.  Making  his  way through  a  conspicuously  empty  wor¬ ship  room.  Ponton  climbs  a  set  of  rick¬ ety  stairs  to  the  second  floor.
Taking  a  brass  key  from  a  fold  in  his robes,  he  will  unlock  a  narrow  wooden door  at  the  top  of  the  stairs.  It  opens into  a  small,  dusty  room,  in  the  center of  which  sits  a  beautifully  etched  glass case  containing  a  shiny  metal  gauntlet. Ponton  will  bow  before  the  display  and in  hushed,  reverent  tones  bid  the  party to  examine  it.  However,  he  will  not under  any  circumstances  open  the  case and  allow  them  to  touch  it.  Every square  inch  of  the  gauntlet's  outer  sur¬ face  is  covered  with  strange  runes. (Any  magic-user  can  see  that  the  runes are  magical,  but  they  are  unreadable even  with  a  read  magic  spell,)
If  the  party  shows  interest  in  Pon¬ ton's  story,  he  will  invite  them  to  stay  at the  church  if  they  wish.  The  third  floor contains  several  unused  bedrooms  and a  large  library  of  religious  tomes.
If  the  PCs  tell  Ponton  they  plan  to take  part  in  the  mock  battle,  he  will  be very  disappointed  and  try  to  talk  them out  of  it.  Ponton  is  a  kindly  old  man who  takes  his  religion  very  seriously. His  main  problem  is  in  the  overzealous manner  in  which  he  preaches,  which tends  to  alienate  most  people.
The  Fairgrounds
Many  large  colorful  tents  have  been pitched  here  to  house  the  festivals exhibits  and  attractions.  Acrobats, downs,  puppeteers,  illusionists,  freaks, wild  animals,  and  demonstrations  of strength  and  derring-do  can  be  found within  their  canvas  folds,  The  admission to  most  of  these  attractions  is  2  sp.  Other tents  are  set  up  to  display  crafts,  domestic animals,  and  culinary  skills.  Admission to  these  is  free.
Basic  Training
Arriving  at  the  practice  field  in  the morning,  the  PCs  find  a  rag-tag  group of  about  250  men  and  horses  waiting for  them.  The  PCs  should  divide  the men  into  units,  deciding  whether  they wish  to  take  the  parts  of  unit  com¬ manders,  deputy  commanders  or heroes  during  the  battle,  and  begin  their training.  All  the  men  have  their  own swords,  although  their  expertise  varies widely.
The  units  commanded  by  the  PCs  are playing  the  part  of  the  goblin  forces. They  are  supposed  to  charge  from  the extreme  east  of  the  battlefield  near  a group  of  low  foothills  at  the  base  of  the mountains  (see  map).  They  are  to  meet the  militia,  charging  from  the  west,  in the  center  of  the  field.  After  a  fierce mock  battle,  the  pseudo-goblins  are  to rout  back  to  their  starting  point.
The  next  few  hours  should  try  the patience  of  even  the  most  saintly  char¬ acters.  Although  most  of  the  volunteers are  able  to  ride  a  horse  without  falling off,  some  are  obviously  suffering  the effects  of  hangovers.  Near  misses,  both in  riding  and  weapon  wielding  should be  the  order  of  the  day.  As  the  players run  their  troops  through  their  paces, they  will  notice  a  crowd  gathering around  the  edges  of  the  field,  laughing and  pointing  at  the  antics  of  the  pseudo- goblins.
20
Lord  Yrkhetep's  Plot
For  a  long  time.  Lord  Yrkhetep  has  been aware  of  the  existence  of  the  Hand  of Tyr  and  longed  to  add  it  to  his  arsenal. Because  of  the  holy  nature  of  the  build¬ ing  in  which  it  is  kept,  he  was  unable  to enter  and  steal  it  as  he  would  have liked*  However,  when  news  of  the  festi¬ val  and  the  re-enactment  of  the  battle reached  his  ears,  he  saw  his  chance* Knowing  of  the  bitter  resentment  the goblin  tribes  in  the  area  harbored towards  the  town  of  Urml,  he  visited each  in  turn,  and  using  whatever  means necessary  (Le.  coercion,  blackmail,  or violence),  got  them  to  listen  to  his  plan, As  soon  as  the  reenactment  began, the  goblin  tribes,  divided  into  four main  armies,  would  attack*  Two  groups would  confront  the  militia,  keeping them  occupied,  while  the  others  would ride  through  the  town  and  the  fair¬ grounds,  looting,  destroying,  and  cre¬ ating  general  confusion.  Before  the militia  had  a  chance  to  regroup  their forces.  Lord  Yrkhetep  would  make  his appearance  on  Tyrs  Watch  in  the  guise of  Torm  {white  horse  and  armor)  and ride  to  the  Church  of  Tyr  and  demand his  gauntlet  f  rom  Dioseus  the  cleric. The  cleric,  thinking  that  his  god  Tyr had  again  sent  an  emissary  to  save  the town,  would  turn  over  the  artifact. Yrkhetep  would  then  use  the  artifact  to destroy  the  militia  so  the  goblins  could have  their  way  with  the  town.  Yrkhetep stressed  that  all  he  wanted  was  the hand.  The  goblins  could  have  every¬ thing  else.  Appealing  to  their  greed,  he also  mentioned  all  the  rich  tourists  who would  be  in  town  for  the  festivities.
All  the  goblin  leaders,  thirsty  for revenge  and  loot,  committed  their tribes  to  the  plan,  put  aside  their  differ¬ ences,  and  called  a  council  of  war.
Lord  Yrkhetep,  however,  has  no intention  of  following  this  plan.  Once he  gains  possession  of  the  Hand  of  Tyr, he  will  disappear,  leaving  the  goblins  to their  fate.  He  has  no  desire  to  waste  the device  on  the  town  of  Urml.  He  will, however,  retreat  to  one  of  the  mountain peaks  to  watch  the  battle.
Nocturnal  Visitors
The  night  before  the  reenactment,  four white  robed  figures  enter  the  town  from the  east  and  make  their  way  to  the  Tem¬ ple  of  Tyr.  The  PCs  might  see  them, depending  on  where  they  are  staying. These  newcomers  are  Yrkhetep's  ser¬ vants,  sent  to  prepare  the  cleric  for  his appearance.
If  the  PCs  eavesdrop  on  the  conver¬ sation  between  Ponton  and  the  figures, they  will  hear  the  following:
The  four  claim  to  be  pilgrims  of  Tyr who  have  journeyed  to  Urml  to  relate an  important  message.  Three  days  ago they  had  a  vision  that  Tyr  would  again send  his  emissary  to  Urml.  Their  vision told  of  something  terrible  happening during  the  reenactment  of  the  Battle  of Urml,  and  that  once  again,  Tyr  would have  to  intervene  to  save  the  town. They  ask  that  Ponton  heed  their  mes¬ sage  well,  and  be  ready  to  turn  over  the Hand  of  Tyr  to  the  savior  when  he appears.  They  will  then  take  their  leave of  Ponton,
Once  the  servants  are  away  from town,  they  will  throw  off  their  robes, mount  four  horses  they  have  tied  up near  the  foothills,  and  ride  cross¬ country  toward  Timindar  (see  Rumors of  War).  The  four  pseudo-clerics  are actually  fighters  in  Yrkhetep's  employ*
Fighters  (4):  AC  6;  Move  9"  (18" when  mounted);  HD  F4;  hp  34  each? #AT  1;  Dmg  footman's  mace;  THACO 16;  AL  NE.
If  the  PCs  challenge  or  attack  the  fight¬ ers,  they  will  expose  their  true  nature. Any  who  are  taken  prisoner  will  reveal, under  threat  of  torture  or  the  offer  of  a huge  bribe  {at  least  200  gp),  Yrkhetep's plan  to  gain  the  gauntlet  and  attack  the town.  They  think  it  is  too  late  for  the characters  to  do  anything  about  it  any¬ way*  They  do  not  know  the  locations  of the  goblin  camps,  except  that  they  are scattered  throughout  the  mountains. They  add  that  if  the  party  found  one  of the  camps  they  would  just  be  killed  by the  sentries  (a  very  real  possibility).
Gaining  this  information,  the  PCs should  try  their  best  to  inform  Ponton or  Creosoe  of  the  plot,  to  keep  Yrkhe¬ tep  from  getting  the  hand.
If  the  PCs  try  to  convince  Ponton,  he will  simply  dismiss  them  as  heretics  and pay  no  heed  to  their  warning.  He  will never  surrender  the  gauntlet  to  the  PCs and  plans  to  honor  the  "clerics'" request,  To  secure  the  hand,  the  PCs probably  will  have  to  steal  it.
Creosoe  will  be  more  receptive  to  a warning,  but  it  will  still  take  a  lot  of convincing  (a  live  prisoner  would help).  If  they  can  get  him  to  believe their  story,  plans  can  be  made  to  be ready  for  the  goblin  hordes  when  they attack*  Creosoe  will  not  commit  any  of his  troops  to  try  to  raid  the  goblin camps.  He  views  this  as  suicide,  as  the goblins  would  have  the  definite  advan¬ tage  in  the  mountains.
The  Battle
The  reenactment  of  the  Battle  of  Urml  is set  to  take  place  at  noon.  However, people  begin  arriving  quite  a  bit  earlier, lugging  blankets  and  picnic  baskets,  to claim  a  good  viewing  area.  Sections  of ground  along  the  north  and  south  edges of  the  battlefield  have  been  roped  off for  spectators.
Promptly  at  noon,  the  Urml  militia takes  its  position  along  the  west  edge  of the  field,  accompanied  by  cheers  and clapping*  Then  the  PCs'  units,  dressed  in dirty  rags  to  simulate  goblin  garb,  may set  up  on  the  east  end  of  the  field*  Their arrival  is  met  by  boos  and  catcalls.
After  a  long-winded  speech  by  the mayor  of  Urml,  the  battle  may  begin. The  players'  units  should  charge  first, accompanied  by  the  appropriate  yells and  curses.  They  will  be  met  by  the defending  Urml  units  in  the  approxi¬ mate  center  of  the  field.  At  this  point, no  actual  damage  should  be  meted  out by  either  side*
If  the  PCs  have  not  uncovered  Lord Yrkhetep's  plot,  or  alerted  the  Urml militia  to  any  suspicions  they  may have,  both  sides  will  be  ill-prepared  for what  occurs  next*
21
The  Hand  of  Tyr
Sweeping  down  from  the  low  hills east  of  the  battle  grounds,  a  large  army of  goblins  and  ores  (Units  #1,  2,  4  &  6) will  charge  the  field,  slashing  and  hack¬ ing  at  anyone  in  their  way.
At  the  same  time,  a  group  of  hobgob¬ lins  (Unit  #3)  will  charge  the  fair¬ grounds  from  the  northeast.  They spend  three  game  rounds  causing  as much  destruction  as  possible,  hoping  to divide  the  Urtnl  forces.  They  will  then circle  around  to  the  south  and  attack the  battlefield  from  behind.
While  all  this  is  going  on,  a  group  of gnolls  (Unit  #5)  and  a  group  of  kobolds (Unit  #7)  will  sweep  into  the  town  from the  southeast.  After  spending  five  game rounds  causing  as  much  destruction, looting  and  loss  of  life  as  possible,  they will  circle  back  and  attack  the  forces  on the  Held.
Lord  Yrkhetep Makes  His  Move
Lord  Yrkhetep,  who  has  been  watching the  battle  from  the  summit  of  Tyr's Watch,  waits  until  he  feels  the  time  is right  (the  Unnl  forces  seem  to  be  los¬ ing),  He  will  shape  change  into  the White  Warrior,  mount  a  white  horse, and  make  his  appearance.
A  pregnant  silence  accompanies  his ride  into  the  field  of  battle.  As  the  par¬ ticipants  turn  to  watch  his  approach,  he raises  his  right  arm  to  the  sky,  revealing a  missing  hand.
Ponton,  who  has  been  watching  the proceedings  from  the  steps  of  the church,  will  cry  out  in  joy  and  run inside  to  retrieve  the  gauntlet.  Unless Yrkhetep  is  hindered  in  some  way  he will  ride  to  the  church  and  receive  his prize.
Once  the  hand  is  in  his  possession, Yrkhetep  will  give  an  evil  laugh  and trample  Ponton  with  his  horse.  Then  he will  ride  back  to  the  mountains  to observe  the  rest  of  the  battle.  If  Yrkhe¬ tep  is  kept  from  obtaining  the  hand,  he will  still  vent  his  rage  on  the  cleric  and retreat.  He  has  no  desire  to  take  part  in the  battle  and  will  avoid  fighting  at  aU costs.
This  abandonment  by  their  mentor will  be  a  serious  blow  to  the  goblins' morale,  Whether  they  continue  fight¬ ing,  retreat,  or  choose  to  follow  Yrkhe¬ tep  is  at  the  DM's  discretion.  If  any  of the  player  characters  attempt  to  pursue Lord  Yrkhetep,  they  will  quickly  lose his  trail  at  the  point  where  he  entered the  mountains.  No  amount  of  searching will  reveal  his  path,  though  they  might find  his  horse  (he  has  teleported  to safety.)
Aftermath
Several  endings  are  possible  to  this  sce¬ nario,  depending  on  the  outcome  of  the battle  and  the  player  characters'  inter¬ vention.
If  the  goblin  forces  win  the  battle, they  will  loot  everything  in  sight,  and then  bum  the  town.  If  the  DM  wishes, the  town  can  be  saved  by  the  timely arrival  of  reinforcements  from  Ormath (responding  to  a  call  from  Creosoe,  per¬ haps).
If  the  goblins  are  defeated,  whether by  loss  of  numbers,  low  morale  caused by  Yrkhetep  s  retreat  or  any  other  fac¬ tors,  they  flee  back  to  the  mountains. The  townspeople  and  visitors  will  band together  to  take  care  of  the  dead  and wounded.  The  PCs  will  be  honored  as heroes  for  their  intervention.
Whether  or  not  Yrkhetep  gets  the hand,  Urml  s  citizens,  realizing  that  the entire  battle  was  staged  to  get  the  hand (after  questioning  prisoners,  etc,)  gains a  new  respect  for  the  church's  teach¬ ings.  They  vow  to  help  restore  the church  to  its  former  glory  and  to  live  in greater  harmony.
The  Hand  of  Tyr (Gauntlet  of  Lightning)
This  artifact  is  a  realistically  crafted metallic  hand.  When  worn  by  a  fighter or  cleric,  the  hand  improves  AC  by  +2. In  addition,  the  wearer  receives  a  bonus of  +  2  to  hit  and  damage  with  all  weap¬ ons  wielded  by  the  hand.  By  itself,  the hand  strikes  for  2-8  (2d4)  damage.
When  charged  (see  below)  the  hand  is
capable  of  delivering  a  6d6  lightning bolt  (as  the  the  3d  level  magic-user spell)  at  a  cost  of  two  charges.  In  addi¬ tion,  the  hand  has  the  ability  to  call  an 8d8  lightning  bolt  (as  the  3d  level  druid spell)  once  per  day,  at  a  cost  of  one charge.  To  wield  the  hand,  the  owner must  first  cut  off  his  own  right  hand  and then  press  the  Hand  of  Tyr  to  the wound.  If  the  person  desiring  the  hand is  worthy  (DMs  discretion),  the  hand will  adhere.
The  hand  can  store  2-24  charges. Before  the  last  charge  is  expended,  the owner  must  raise  the  hand  in  the  air  and call  lightning  to  strike  the  hand.  When lightning  strikes,  the  wearer  must  make a  saving  throw  vs.  spell.  If  the  save fails,  the  owner  dies;  if  the  save  is  suc¬ cessful  the  hand  is  recharged.  Legend has  it  that  the  hand  was  a  gift  from  the god  Tyr  to  his  worshippers.  However, another  story  is  that  the  hand  was  craft¬ ed  for  the  paladin  Mythera  whose  own hand  was  lost  in  battle.  Mythera  is  said to  have  perished  during  the  first  Battle of  Urml  while  attempting  to  recharge the  hand.
If  Yrkhetep  gets  the  hand,  he  drains all  its  charges  to  power  his  Infinity Train  (see  The  Final  Battle).  If  he  fails  to gain  the  hand,  completion  of  the  train will  be  more  difficult,  but  not  impos¬ sible.  The  Final  Battle  will  not  be  affect¬ ed  either  way.
Order  of  Battle
Urml  Forces
Urml  Militia  A  is  an  elite  unit  of  50  4th Level  fighters  riding  armored  light  war- horses  and  armed  with  long  swoids.
Urml  Militia  B  is  an  elite  unit  of  50 4th  Level  fighters  riding  armored  light warhorses  and  armed  with  spears.
Urml  Militia  C  is  a  unit  of  50  2d  Level fighters  riding  light  warhorses  and armed  with  long  swords.
Urml  Militia  D  is  a  unit  of  50  2d  Level fighters  riding  light  warhorses  and armed  with  broad  swords.
The  Tourists  are  a  regular  unit  of  100 1st  Level  fighters  riding  draft  horses
22
The  Hand  of  Tyr
Downtown^J
^^Goblins
55  Battlegrounds
J  Un«,s,7S»(' 1  4, and  6  \
Ormath
—  .5511*)  all
J"ii  F^ir
URML  ]®,H
nits 5  and  7
Goblins
and  armed  with  broad  swords*
The  Hired  Hands  are  a  mob  unit  of  80 1st  Level  fighters  riding  mules  and armed  with  pitchforks*
The  Drunks  &  Thieves  is  a  mob  unit of  30  0  Level  fighters  riding  draft  horses and  armed  with  clubs  and  bottles*
The  Bystanders  are  a  mob  unit  of  50  0 Level  fighters  riding  draft  horses  and armed  with  spears*
Goblin  Forces
The  Bloodier  Teeth  is  a  unit  of  goblins riding  dire  wolves  and  armed  with broad  swords.
The  Scab  Eaters  is  a  unit  of  goblins  rid¬ ing  dire  wolves  and  armed  with  spears.
The  Back  Crackers  is  a  unit  of  hob¬ goblins  riding  medium  warhorses  and armed  with  flails.
The  Spine  Snappers  is  a  unit  of  hob¬ goblins  riding  medium  warhorses  and armed  with  maces.
The  Worm  Eaters  is  a  unit  of  gnolls  rid¬ ing  wild  boars  and  armed  with  battle axes*
The  Scum  Patrol  is  a  unit  of  ores  rid¬ ing  mountain  goats  and  armed  with clubs.
The  Night  Fright  is  a  unit  of  kobolds riding  giant  weasels  and  armed  with short  swords.
The  Grunts  are  a  unit  of  ogres  armed with  long  swords*
23
The  Hand  of  Tyr
Unit  Name
Urml  Militia  A Urml  Militia  B Urml  Militia  C Urml  Militia  D Tourists Hired  Hands Drunks  &  Thieves Bystanders
Type  Level  AC  HD/Fig  MV  AR  ML  DL  #Fig
Cav  F4  4  40  18"  18  .  14  16  5
Cav  F4  4  40  18"  18  14  16  5
Cav  F2  7  :  20  14"  20  -2$  12  12  5
Cav  F2  7  20  24"  20  12  12  5
Cav  FI  10  20  12"  20  9  9  10
Cav  FI  10  20  12"  20  9  9  8
Cav  F0  10  |  10  12"  ?!  9  7  3
Cav  F0  10  10  12"  21  9  9  :=  5
Dmg
Id8/ld4/ld4 Id6/ld4/ld4 !  Id8/ld4/ld4 2d4/ld4/ld4 2d4 ld6
If:  ld6  '  S
ld6
Goblin  Forces
Unit  Name
1.  Bloodier  Teeth
2.  Scab  Eaters
3.  Back  Crackers
4.  Spine  Snappers
5.  Worm  Eaters
6.  Scum  Patrol
7.  Night  Fright
8.  Grunts
Fig  Dmg
6  si  2d4/2d4
8  Id6/2d4
5  Id4  +  l/ld6/ld6/ld3
4  Id6/ld6/ld6/ld3
4  Id8/3d4
15  Id6/ld3
3  i  Id8/2d6  i  E
10  ldlOL
Thurgabanteth
Upon  his  discovery  of  the  Realms,  Bane held  a  great  feast  of  blood,  in  celebra¬ tion  of  the  bloodletting  to  come.  His talons  were  red  and  dripping  with  ven¬ om  as  he  descended  for  the  first  time into  the  new  lands,  and  he  placed  his iron  foot ,  which  burned  with  pillaging fire,  on  Burgateth,  highest  mountain  of Chondath .  And  he  crushed  it,  and burned  it,  so  that  afterwards  it  was  but a  lifeless  hill  of  black  glass,  burning crystal
Then  Bane t  seeing  the  tifelessness  and ruin  in  the  middle  of  such  beauty smiled ,  and  spoke  with  a  voice  like  that of  carrion:  "Let  this  place  resonate  with new  songs ;  the  cries  of  the  warrior,  the melody  of  clashing  swords ,  the  harmo¬ ny  of  iron  shod  boots  marching  in  uni¬ son  over  the  stones,  the  crescendo  of the  death  wail,  and  the  chorus  of  the widow's  lament H  Let  this  place  be  a  tap¬ estry  upon  which  l  shall  paint  new scenes f  and  blood  and  ash  shall  be  my pigments .  These  are  the  things  that  I cherish ,  and  they  shall  dominate  this place,  as  they  do  wherever  the  hearts  of men  are  weak  and  quick  to  desire.  The four  winds  shall  spread  these  things  to every  corner  of  this  land,  and  no  crea¬ ture  shall  evade  them.  This  place  is  a special  symbol  of  my  domination,  and  I shall  name  it  Thurgabanteth,  the  Hill  of Black  Ruin ,  It  is  my  footstool,  a  portent of  my  final  victory !*
Satisfied,  Bane  retreated  to  his domain,  and  watched  with  hateful  eyes as  his  terrible  seed  began  its  work.)
From  the  Black  Tome  of  Chondath
Introduction
In  this  adventure,  for  characters  levels 8-9,  the  players  once  again  confront  the forces  of  the  arc  an  o  daemon  Yrkhetep, who  has  camped  by  the  dreaded  hill Thurgabanteth.
This  scenario  takes  place  in  the  town of  Timindar  in  Chondath.  Nine  years ago,  a  wicked  woman,  Durissa,  was cast  out  of  the  town  for  many  crimes and  evil  acts.  At  the  time,  she  vowed  to
get  even.  To  exact  her  revenge,  she  has become  an  agent  of  Yrkhetep,  who  has promised  to  destroy  the  town  and everyone  in  it,  except  for  the  one  person Durissa  loves,  her  twin  sister  Morissa, the  town  archivist.
To  enact  her  scheme,  she  is  posing  as Morissa  and  spreading  dire  rumors.  The real  Morissa,  who  believes  that  her  sister has  suffered  enough,  is  sheltering  her.  She will  not  reveal  the  deception.  She  is allowing  Durissa  to  use  her  indentity because  she  believes  the  rumors  Durissa is  spreading— 'particularly  the  one  about the  Black  Skull  (see  below).
Durissa  s  rumors  will  cause  trouble among  various  mercenary  groups  in  the town,  problems  that  the  PCs  will  have  to solve,  Morissa '$  most  elaborate  rumor  is about  the  Black  Skull,  the  remains  of  an aspect  of  Bane.  She  claims  to  have  uncov¬ ered  documents  that  say  the  artifact  is buried  in  Thurgabanteth,  She  also  says that  enemies  are  struggling  to  unearth  the artifact.  Unless  Timindar  and  its  allied mercenaries  strike  quickly,  the  forces  of darkness  will  acquire  a  power  that  will enable  them  to  win  any  battle.  She  has authentic-looking  documents  to  prove her  claim,  documents  that  have  fooled even  her  sister.
In  truth,  Thurgabanteth  is  a  death trap  for  a  force  the  size  of  Timindar  s. The  majority  of  Yrkhetep's  forces  are hidden  in  underground  tunnels  dug around  Thurgabanteth,  It  will  be  up  to the  PCs  to  discover  the  truth  and  bol¬ ster  their  forces,  or  they  will  surely  be defeated.
Getting  Involved
Timindar  will  send  riders  towards Arrabar  and  Hlath.  In  both  of  these  cit¬ ies,  word  of  the  Skull  of  Bane  can spread  to  the  PCs  ears.
If  the  PCs  are  not  altruistic,  then word  may  go  out  that  the  Lord  Tymin will  pay  good  money  to  mercenaries who  wish  to  fight  against  the  evils descending  upon  Timindar.  If  the  PCs are  following  from  the  previous  sce¬ nario,  the  pseudo-clerics  might  tell  the PCs  that  they  were  to  meet  their employer  in  Timindar  or  supply  other information  that  will  lead  them  to Timindar  and  the  battle  at  Thurgaban¬ teth.
Timindar
Timindar  is  located  on  the  Chondath Road  between  Arrabar  and  Hlath, about  one  hundred  and  fifty  miles  east of  Arrabar.  A  large  area  of  farmland surrounds  the  walled  town.  Over  the past  fifty  years,  it  has  prospered  from merchant  traffic,  and  grown  from  a small  hamlet  to  a  prosperous,  if  quiet, little  town.
The  area  has  one  black  spot,  Thurga¬ banteth,  or  the  Evil  Eye  of  the  Dark Gods  (or  simply  the  Evil  Eye),  as  it  is known  to  the  locals*  This  hill  of  black glass  is  located  about  fifteen  miles southeast  of  Timindar,  on  the  edge  of Chondalwood.  There  are  many  dark legends  about  spirits  of  war  rising  from the  hill  to  slay  anyone  who  is  foolish enough  to  come  near,  and  any  local disaster  is  always  blamed  on  the  hill.  As
25
Rumors  of  War
one  might  expect,  the  locals  usually shun  the  hill*
Tiinindar  is  a  place  where  merchants buy  produce  to  take  to  markets  in  larg* er  cities  {usually  Arrabar}*  The  farmers in  this  region  are  prosperous*  They must  pay  tithes  to  any  of  the  town's  rec¬ ognized  churches,  and  to  the  Lord  of the  estate.  Lord  Drumath  Tymin,  but they  are  allowed  to  keep  most  of  their incomes*  People  bringing  goods  into the  city  must  pay  a  small  tariff  (usually about  2%  of  the  value  of  the  goods), which  does  not  discourage  merchants.
The  city  is  divided  into  two  sections, the  market  section,  and  the  Lord's manor,  a  small  castle.  There  are  four recognized  churches  near  the  market; listed  in  order  of  importance  to  the locals,  these  are  devoted  to  Chauntea, Waukeen,  Tempus,  and  Good*  New churches  may  be  built  with  the  permis¬ sion  of  the  Lord,  but  the  builder  must buy  a  10,000  gold  lion  construction  per¬ mit*  Timindar  typically  uses  Arrabar  s currency,  but  most  merchants  will accept  currency  of  other  types.
Timindar  has  a  large  hostel  for  shel¬ tering  large  merchant  caravans*  There is  one  tavern,  the  Black  Eye,  which  is owned  by  Tallanna  Fhyord,  a  feisty  and efficient  middle-aged  woman*  The  inn and  the  hostel  will  be  full  when  the player  characters  arrive,  due  to  the number  of  mercenaries  in  town*
The  most  noteworthy  residents  of this  town  are:
Durissa;  ST  11;  IN  17;  WS  9;  CN  11; DX  16;  CH  13;  CM  12;  AC  4;  Move 12";  110;  hp  21;  #AT  1;  Dmg  N/A; THAC0  19;  AL  NE;  potion  ofinvulner * ability,  potion  of  polymorph  self,  wand of  negation ,  ring  of  protection  +3; boots  of  striding  and  springing \
Spells:  change  self,  chromatic  orb, gaze  reflection,  phantom  armor,  wall  of fog,  blur,  mirror  image,  misdirection, ventriloquism ,  non '■detection,  spectral force  (x2),  improved  invisibility,  phan¬ tasmal  killer
Durissa  Thomion  was  one  of  the daughters  of  the  town  mage,  who  died
when  she  was  a  girl*  Durissa,  a  mischie¬ vous  child,  had  more  interest  in  the  art of  deception  than  normal  magic,  so  she became  an  illusionist*  As  she  became more  skilled  as  an  illusionist,  her  decep¬ tions  became  more  dangerous,  and  she finally  killed  someone.  Had  the  towns¬ people  caught  her,  they  would  have executed  her.  Durissa  did  not  regret  the killing,  but  she  was  forced  to  leave Timindar.  Durissa  enjoys  creating  dis¬ sension,  and  seeing  people  at  each  oth¬ ers'  throats  because  of  her  illusions* Durissa  never  uses  weapons*  Durissa  is about  thirty  years  of  age,  tall,  with braided  raven  black  hair  and  brown eyes*
Morissa:  ST  11;  IN  IS;  WS  14;  CN 11;  DX  16;  CH  13;  CM  12;  AC  7;  Move 12";  MU5;  hp  13;  #AT  1;  Dmg  dagger; THAC0  2d  20;  AL  NG;  ring  of  protec¬ tion  +  1)
Spells:  comprehend  languages , friends ,  mending ,  read  magic ,  rope trick,  shatter ,  tongues
Morissa  Thomion  is  Durissa's  sister, and  keeper  of  the  Thomion  archives, which  are  adjacent  to  the  Lord's  manor in  Timindar*  Morissa  is  as  kind  as  her sister  is  malicious;  she  would  not  will¬ ingly  harm  a  fly.  Morissa  is  the  most trusted  person  in  the  village.  Lord Tymin  often  calls  upon  her  to  help  set¬ tle  disputes.  She  has  one  weakness,  she talks  too  much,  typically  about  things that  interest  her  (ancient  legends,  mag¬ ics),  but  no  one  else  in  Timindar  really wants  to  hear  about,  aside  from  a  few children.  The  rumor  of  the  Skull  of Bane,  which  Durissa  passed  on  to  her sister,  has,  however,  interested  people greatly.  Morissa  looks  exactly  like  her sister.  They  dress  alike  and  even  their hair  style  is  identical*
Araband  Tymin:  ST  17;  IN  11;  WS 11;  CN  14;  DX  18;  CH  14;  CM  15;  AC 2;  Move  12" ;  F6;  hp  39;  #AT  1;  Dmg long  sword;  THAC0 13;  AL  NG;  ring  of protection  +2,  long  sword  +2
Araband  is  Lord  Tymin  s  only  son, and  considered  to  be  very  irresponsi¬ ble*  He  often  gets  drunk  and  carouses with  friends,  much  to  his  family's  disap¬ pointment  *  He  is  very  competent  in times  of  need  (although  no  one  realizes this)*  Araband  likes  to  talk  with  stran¬ gers  about  adventures  in  far-off  lands, which  fuels  his  wanderlust.  Araband would  love  to  be  an  adventurer,  but  can rarely  sneak  away  from  home*  Ara¬ band  dislikes  metal  armor,  which  he refers  to  as  "the  walking  rack,"  and  typi¬ cally  wears  worn  leather  armor  without the  emblem  of  his  station,  which  is  also a  matter  of  shame  to  him.  Araband  is commander  in  chief  of  the  Timindar forces  {his  father  is  lame).  Araband  is  in his  mid  20s,  slightly  taller  than  average, handsome,  and  slim.
Zerbin  Gethrik;  ST  16;  IN  12;  WS  16; CN  15;  DX  15;  CH  12;  CM  10;  AC  3; Move  9";  CL5;  hp  34;  #AT  1;  Dmg  F Flail;  THAC0  18;  AL  CN;  footman's flail  +2,  chain  mail  +1
Spells:  bless ,  create  water,  cure  light wounds,  (x2),  protection  from  evil , augury,  chant ,  resist  fire ,  speak  with animals,  spiritual  hammer,  dispel  mag¬ ic
Zerbin  Gethrik  is  the  priest  of  Tem¬ pus  in  Timindar  and  Araband  Tymiris most  trusted  friend,  although  they spend  most  of  their  time  arguing,  Zer¬ bin  was  originally  a  murderer  in  a  city of  the  Sword  Coast  who  fled  into  a church  to  escape  justice,  and  ended  up becoming  a  priest*  In  spite  of  his  odd conversion,  he  is  devout  and  follows the  principles  of  the  Church  of  Tempus faithfully— few  though  they  be*  Zerbin complains  about  everything,  especially the  fact  that  nobody  (Araband  Tymin in  particular)  pays  any  attention  to  his advice.  Zerbin  overeats  and  drinks  too much,  but  is  a  doughty  fighter  and  true companion*  Zerbin  is  in  his  late  30s, taller  than  average,  bald,  and  over¬ weight.
26
Lord  Reland  Tymiri:  ST  14;  IN  11; WS  14;  CN  11;  DX  10;  CH  13:  CM  12; AC  10;  Move  6";  F4;  hp  30;  #AT  1; Dmg  long  sword;  THACO  15;  AL  LN- long  sword  +3)
Reland  Tymin  has  been  Lord  of Timindar  for  eighteen  years.  He  is  a somber  man  and  absolutely  serious when  governing  his  manor  and  sur¬ rounding  lands.  Reland  came  to  the manor  seat  when  his  brother,  the  pre¬ vious  ruler,  was  poisoned.  Reland's nephew  was  blamed  for  the  death  and executed,  although  at  the  time  many said  the  wrong  man  was  killed.  Reland was  once  a  mighty  warrior,  but  is  lame now  and  leaves  fighting  to  his  son,  Ara¬ band,  despite  his  irresponsible  nature. Reland  is  dose  Friends  with  Morissa Thornton  (some  say  that  her  mother was  his  mistress,  and  blame  him  for  her father's  death).  Reland  is  a  fair  ruler despite  hb  stem  nature.  Reland  is  in  his early  50s,  tail,  and  gray  haired.  His pain- racked  body  is  scarred  from  the numerous  battles  he  fought  in  his youth.
Evil  in  the  Black  Eye
The  gates  of  Timindar  shut  at  dusk, especially  when  evil  is  gathered  at Thurgabanteth.  The  night  creatures  are aroused,  cloaked  by  fog.  As  the  charac¬ ters  enter  the  Black  Eye,  they  realize that  this  is  a  night  when  the  might  of their  enemies  is  waxing.
The  town  is  currently  hosting  the Gray  Doom,  a  newly-formed  merce¬ nary  company,  survivors  of  many  skir¬ mishes  on  the  Sword  Coast.  They  are  a long  way  from  home.  Lord  Tymin  is waiting  for  another  mercenary  compa¬ ny.  the  Sailors  of  the  Crimson  Sea,  to arrive  before  he  marches  against  the enemy.  The  people  of  Timindar  are restless;  rumors  have  been  circulating that  the  mercenaries  are  planning  to sack  the  town  and  the  farms  after  the battle.  Meanwhile,  rumors  are  circulat¬ ing  among  the  mercenaries  that  Lord Tymin  will  not  pay  them  once  the  battle is  over.
At  the  Inn,  several  mercenaries, including  their  leader,  Olway  Lezard, are  seated  but  a  few  tables  away  from the  town's  stoutest  troops,  including Araband  Tymin  and  Zerbin  Gethrik.  In the  meantime,  Durissa  has  disguised herself  as  a  barmaid  and  has  put  a  very powerful  drug  into  the  inn's  ale;  those who  drink  but  a  single  mug  will  become very  drunk,  and  prone  to  violent  words and  rash  deeds,  (Player  characters  may make  a  Wisdom  check;  if  successful, they  will  recognize  the  ale  as  being extraordinarily  strong).  The  merce¬ naries,  who  have  remained  in  town  for several  days  and  have  endured uncounted  suspicious  stares,  will  be ready  for  a  fight*
Olway  Lezard;  ST  15;  IN  13;  WS  9;  CN 15;  DX  14;  CH  15;  CM  11;  AC  4;  Move 9";  F5;  hp  38;  #  AT  1;  Dmg  long  sword; THACO  16;  AL  N.
Gray  Doom  mercenaries  (7):  AC  4; Move  9" ;  FI;  hp  7  each;  tf  AT  1;  Dmg long  sword;  THACO  20;  AL  N
Town  Militia  (5):  AC  9;  Move  12w;  F0; hp  4{x4),3;  AT  1;  Dmg  1-8;  THACO  20; AL  LN
Once  he  is  drunk,  Olway  Lezard  will start  insulting  Timindar,  trying  to  goad Araband.  Initially,  Araband  will  agree; indeed  he  will  dnmkenly  accuse  Olway of  being  flattering.  Then,  Olway  will start  insulting  the  people  of  Timindar. Araband  will  accuse  him  of  being  rude, even  if  his  words  are  true.  Then  Olway will  start  insulting  Araband.  Araband replies  by  accusing  Olway  of  stealing his  (Araband's)  father's  tongue.
If  the  PCs  try  to  intervene  at  this point,  Olway  and  Araband  will  start insulting  adventurers,  and  the  militia and  the  mercenaries  will  find  common ground  insulting  the  PCs.  Olway  will start  insulting  Zerbin,  calling  him  Tern- pus's  fat  pig,  or  is  it  a  sow?  If  this  hap¬ pens,  Araband  will  draw  his  sword.
The  party  must  find  a  way  to  prevent the  NPCs  from  killing  each  other.  If Olway  is  slain,  the  Gray  Doom  merce¬ naries  will  go  berserk,  raze  the  town.
27
and  there  will  be  no  troops  left  to  attack Yrkhetep,  save  the  Sailors  of  the  Crim¬ son  Sea,  who  have  troubles  of  their own.
If  Araband  is  slain,  the  grief  “Stricken Lord  Reland  will  attempt  to  arrest Olway,  and  the  Gray  Doom  will  storm the  manor  and  the  Lord  will  be  mur¬ dered,  with  much  the  same  effect  as  list¬ ed  above;  Timindar  will  be  in  ashes, and  Yrkhetep  s  troops  will  be  unop¬ posed,  free  to  join  its  legions  in  Hades for  the  final  battle,
A  drastic  means  that  the  PCs  can  use to  prevent  either  eventuality  is  to  start  a fist  fight  before  a  sword  is  drawn. Grabbing  at  either  Olway  or  Araband before  they  strike  a  blow  will  suffice.  In this  case,  combat  will  be  non-lethal; there  will  be  injuries  (and  even  more aching  heads),  but  Olway  and  Araband will  have  earned  each  other's  respect, and  there  will  be  no  more  trouble  from the  Gray  Doom  in  Timindar.
Hanging  Trees  Are  J  udges  Too?
The  day  following  the  trouble  in  Timin¬ dar,  a  messenger  will  come  from  the Sailors  of  the  Crimson  Sea.  They  were ambushed  as  they  marched  along  the edges  of  Chondaiwood.  Their  leader was  slain  by  snipers  arrows,  and  his body  was  burned  by  flasks  of  burning oil:  no  cleric  can  raise  him  now.  Fur¬ thermore,  their  food  supply  was destroyed.  They  need  a  cleric  to  help feed  them,  to  help  them  to  get  battle ready  and  to  perform  last  rites  for  their fallen  leader  All  priests  in  Timindar will  be  unavailable  (unless  the  PCs  have no  cleric,  then  Zerbin  will  go  if  the  PCs agree  to  accompany  him).  The  messen¬ ger  will  escort  them  to  the  Sailors' camp.
The  messenger  is  genuine;  the ambush  took  place  a  day  and  a  half from  town.  When  they  get  to  the  camp, they  will  find  many  wounded  men,  and quite  a  few  dead  mercenaries,  buried but  awaiting  funeral  rites.  The ambushers  were  eventually  slaugh¬ tered.  However,  another  disaster  has befallen  the  mercenaries;  a  hunting  par¬
ty  of  ten  men  went  into  the  forest  to  get firewood  and  food.  They  have  not returned,  and  it  has  been  over  a  day since  they  left.  The  PCs  will  have  to find  them.
The  forest  in  this  section  of  the  Chon¬ daiwood  is  thick  and  nearly  impass¬ able.  There  are  no  paths  that  the mercenary  party  could  have  used  to travel.  It  seems  impossible  that  ten  men could  enter  the  woods  to  hunt  and  then disappear  without  a  trace.  If  the  party spends  at  least  two  hours  searching  the woods  they  will  find  a  piece  of  torn  red cloth  belonging  to  the  leader  of  the hunting  party,  Lherk  fareth.  After  this doth  is  found,  the  party  will  find  a  nar¬ row,  concealed  path  leading  deeper into  the  forest,  A  ranger  or  character with  tracking  abilities  can  confirm  that this  is  the  path  the  hunters  took.  Any¬ one  can  follow  the  path.
The  forest  is  very  musty,  as  if  rain and  the  wind  never  got  past  the  treetops to  dean  out  the  woodlands.  Game  does not  appear  to  be  thriving  here,  and  it  is very  dark,  even  during  the  day.  Those with  woodland  backgrounds  (ie,  rang¬ ers,  druids)  will  get  the  impression  that this  forest  is  ancient.
After  a  half-day  following  the  path, the  party  will  come  to  a  huge  glade, where  they  will  find  ten  men  tied  up with  strong  vines.  They  are  gagged,  but a  look  of  fear  in  their  eyes  gives  warn¬ ing  of  a  trap,
A  figure  steps  out  of  the  under¬ growth.  "Go  back.  The  trial  is  about  to begin,  and  outsiders  are  not  welcome/' it  croaks.
It  is  a  tall,  thin,  gray-bearded,  wild man  who  looks  as  though  he  has  spent his  entire  life  in  these  woods;  he  is  wear¬ ing  ragged,  filthy  green  robes  that appear  too  small  for  him.  He  is  Variath, a  powerful  druid  who  governs  this  sec¬ tion  of  Chondaiwood.  His  words  are almost  a  whisper.  If  asked  about  the  tri¬ al,  he  replies;  "These  ones  have  com¬ mitted  serious  crimes.  They  are  to  be tried,  and  executed/'
if  he  is  told  this  is  unfair,  he  will  get angry,  but  a  tree  will  stir,  move  from  its place,  and  address  him:  "He  has  a
point.  It  is  not  fair,"  it  is  a  large  treant.
"You  are  the  ones  that  were wronged."  Variath  declares.  "Do  you not  want  vengeance?"
"No,  justice."  the  treant  replies  calm¬ ly*
Variath  will  at  this  point  convene  a trial  of  the  mercenaries.  At  the  treant  5 suggestion,  the  PCs  are  allowed  to watch,  and  even  to  testify  on  behalf  of the  mercenaries.
Variath:  ST  16;  IN  15;  WS 16;  CN  16; DX  IS;  CH  15;  CM  9;  AC  0;  Move  12" ; DR11;  hp  78;  #AT  1;  Drug  scimitar; THACO  12;  AL  N;  bracers  of  defense AC  5,  scimitar  +2
Spells:  animal  friendship,  entangle, faerie  fire ,  locate  animals ,  pass  without trace ,  predict  weather ;  speak  with  ani¬ mals,  barkskin ,  cure  light  wounds ,  find traps ,  heat  metal,  locate  plants,  trip, warp  wood,  protection  from  fire ,  sum¬ mon  insects ,  call  lightning,  cure  serious wounds,  dispel  magic ,  plant  door ;  con¬ trol  winds,  insect  plague,  weather  sum¬ moning
Variath  was  bom  and  raised  in  the Chondaiwood  and  left  it  only  once.  He hated  what  he  saw  of  the  rest  of  the world  and  relumed  to  the  wood  as  soon as  possible,  Variath  believes  that  the world  outside  of  Chondaiwood  is  evil, that  man  is  evil,  and  only  by  becoming a  druid  can  a  man  be  purified.  (Druids who  travel  outside  the  woods  can become  impure,  however.)  Variath  is full  of  petty  hatreds,  and  he  intends  to vent  his  wrath  on  the  mercenaries.
The  treants  of  Chondaiwood  are much  more  patient  than  Variath,  They are  not  happy  with  the  mercenaries,  but are  willing  to  listen  to  their  side  of  the story.  The  treants  fear  the  power  of Thurgabanteth,  which  they  call  the Blackwold,  more  than  anything;  the treants  have  not  forgotten  how  it  was created,  they  never  forget.
The  mercenaries  currently  on  trial are  the  elite  of  the  Sailors  of  the  Crim¬ son  Sea,  They  entered  the  forest,  killed a  deer,  cut  off  some  branches  from  an old  dying  tree,  and  burned  them.  To Variath,  this  is  a  horrible  crime.  ("How
25
would  you  feel  if  we  slaughtered  your children,  cut  off  your  right  arm,  and burned  it[")  The  mercenaries  argue  that they  had  every  right  to  feed  themselves and  keep  themselves  warm,
Lhrek  Jarsyn:  ST  10/36;  IN  12;  WS 12;  CN  16;  DX  14;  CH  15;  CM  13;  AC 4;  Move  9n ;  F 7;  hp  38;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg long  sword;  THACO  14;  AL  LG;  chain mail,  long  sword  +3
Lhrek  is  the  current  commander  of the  Sailors  of  the  Crimson  Sea.  He  is normally  a  friendly  man,  but  during  the trial  he  will  be  frustrated,  angry,  and arrogant.  His  men  came  to  save  the people  of  this  region — is  this  the  thanks they  get?  He  will  be  grateful  if  the  PCs help  rescue  them.
luman  Chall:  ST  10;  IN  16;  WS  11; CN  14;  DX  16;  CH  12;  CM  11;  AC  3; Move  121';  MU7;  hp  23;  #AT  1;  Dmg dagger;  THACO  19;  AL  LN;  bracers  of defense  AC  5,  dagger  +1,  elven  cloak and  boots
Spells:  charm  person,  feather  fall magic  missile  (x2),  ESP  invisibility, knock,  fireball  fly ,  polymorph  self
luman  is  the  magic-user  of  the  Sail¬ ors  of  the  Crimson  Sea,  and  Lhrek's rival  for  leadership  of  the  group.  He considers  himself  older  and  much  wiser than  the  young  fighter.  He  is  treacher¬ ous,  and  while  he  will  not  betray  or baekstab  Lhrek,  he  has  said  some  nasty things  about  him  behind  his  back,  and the  company  is  demoralized  (  - 1  from their  ML).  If  the  PCs  help  Lhrek  resolve the  crisis  with  Variath,  Lhrek's  popular¬ ity  will  increase  and  their  morale  level wiD  return  to  normal.
The  treants  are  demanding  some compensation  {1,000  gold  crowns, since  these  humans  have  an  attraction for  this  odd  shiny  metal)  and  an  apol¬ ogy.  Lhrek  is  not  willing  to  give  either. Variath  argues  that  if  they  cannot  see the  error  of  their  ways,  they  are  beyond redemption  and  must  be  punished  (exe¬ cuted).
For  the  PCs  to  resolve  the  trial,  they
should  appoint  a  single  speaker,  who will  address  the  treants.  Roll  a  reaction roll  (see  DMG  p.  63),  adding  appropri¬ ate  bonuses  for  charisma,  and  applying the  following  modifiers:
*5%  if  speaker  is  a  haif-orc +  10%  if  speaker  Is  elven  or  half- elven
+  10%  if  speaker  Is  a  ranger +  20%  if  speaker  is  a  druid +  10%  if  Lhrek  is  persuaded  to  apol¬ ogize
+  25%  if  speaker  tells  the  entire  story truthfully  (especially  about  Thttrga- banteth)
+  /-1Q%  for  role-playing To  judge  how  effective  the  role- playing  was,  the  GM  should  consider: Was  the  player  uncertain  or  out  of  char¬ acter?  (  —  5%)  Did  the  character  use empty  flattery?  (-5%)  Was  the  player in  character  during  the  entire  speech? (  +  5  % )  Did  the  character  emphasize  the importance  of  defeating  the  evil  in Thurgabanteth?  (  +  5%)
If  the  result  of  the  reaction  roll  is  55% or  greater,  the  treants  will  agree  to  let the  mercenaries  go  (if  they  apologize). If  the  result  is  above  75%,  then  the treants  will  agree  to  join  in  the  attack  on Thurgabanteth,
Following  this  encounter,  the  party will  find  a  woman  on  a  horse,  riding away  from  town.  Her  horse  is  lame, and  she  has  been  shot  with  several  gob¬ lin  arrows.  This  is  the  real  Morissa, who  took  Durissa's  advice  to  leave town  in  secret  before  the  battle,  lest  the worst  come.  Durissa  did  not  want  to  see her  sister  come  to  harm,  but  goblin archers  had  other  ideas.  Morissa  is  not dying,  but  thinks  she  is.  As  the  party tends  her,  she  will  tell  them  what  she thinks  is  the  truth — that  Durissa  is  try* ing  to  reform  and  is  doing  her  best  to take  care  of  her — and  asks  them  to  give their  most  sacred  word  that  Durissa will  not  come  to  any  harm.
A  Stranger  in  the  Knight
When  the  Sailors  of  the  Crimson  Sea enter  Timindar,  there  will  be  a  great  cel¬ ebration,  if  only  to  bolster  the  towns¬
folk's  morale  against  the  battle  to  come. However,  Durissa  now  will  be  aware that  the  party  is  a  force  to  be  reckoned with,  and  wiU  take  steps  to  deal  with them,
Her  agents  will  secretly  kill  Lord Reland  Tymin  and  his  bodyguard.  She will  take  his  place,  disguised  by  illu¬ sions,  and  two  of  Yrkhetep's  nyca- daemons  will  accompany  her,  disguised as  guards.
Durissa,  disguised  as  Lord  Reland, will  call  the  party  to  a  private  confer¬ ence  late  at  night.  When  they  come  her bodyguards  will  turn  to  their  true  forms and  attack.  "Lord  Reland"  will  appear to  be  startled.  If  it  looks  like  the  nyca- daemons  need  help,  she  will  help  them, but  only  if  she  can  get  surprise.
Once  Durissa  has  revealed  herself, her  true  nature  should  be  clear.  If  the PCs  mention  that  Morissa  got ambushed,  she  will  be  shocked  and uncertain.  The  nycadaemons  will  laugh and  say  that  a  single  life  is  insignificant against  the  triumph  of  Yrkhetep  and  the power  that  awaits  her.  If  the  PCs  give Durissa  any  encouragement  at  all,  she will  turn  against  Yrkhetep.
If  Durissa  switches  sides  and  sur¬ vives,  she  will  tell  the  characters  the truth  about  Thurgabanteth:  half  Yrkhe- tep's  strength  is  concealed;  while  scouts from  the  town  have  identified  ores, ogres,  and,  there  are  also  mezzo- daemons  and  yagnodaemons  in  the host.  The  party  must  awaken  the mound,  the  power  of  Bane,  who  will destroy  any  who  try  to  defile  Thurga¬ banteth.  She  will  claim  that  Morissa will  know  how  it  is  done.  Morissa  does know.
The  town  of  Timindar  has  an  ancient seal,  given  by  a  black-robed  priest  who said  it  would  protect  the  town  against Thurgabanteth.  The  priest,  if  priest  he was,  has  never  been  seen  since,  and  no one  believed  his  claim.  If  the  seal  is  bro¬ ken  against  the  black  glass  of  the  hill, then  Bane's  Skeleton  Knights  will  be unleashed  to  defend  the  hill.  However, it  is  said  that  he  who  breaks  the  seal  of Blackwold  will  die.
29
Rumors  of  War
The  Battle  of  Thurgabanteth
Both  sides  wili  be  using  artillery  in  this battle.  The  forces  of  Timindar  have three  portable  light  catapults.  The forces  of  Yrkhetep  have  four  heavy  cat¬ apults,  each  stationed  at  a  different  cor¬ ner  of  the  hilL
The  damage  listed  in  the  forces  tables for  artillery  units  is  the  figures'  hand-to- hand  weapon  damage.
To  set  up  the  battle,  draw  a  9"  radius circle  on  the  battle  table.  This  is Thurgabanteth.  Hidden  units  will appear  at  the  base  of  the  hill,  emerging from  tunnels  dug  at  the  bottom  of  the hill.
Yrkhetep  will  be  stationed  at  the  top of  the  hill.  As  soon  as  his  position  is attacked,  he  will  teleport  away,  not  to return  confident  that  his  minions  wili win  the  battle  for  him.
In  addition  to  the  Timindar  forces, the  treants,  and  the  mercenaries,  there will  be  another  force  marching  on  the hill.  Anthraxus,  worried  about  Yrkhe¬ tep,  has  slaughtered  some  elves  of Chondaiwood  and  planted  evidence implicating  Yrkhetep.  The  elves  have roused  their  forces  in  response  and  are marching  against  the  BlackwofcL  They will  arrive  two  turns  after  the  Timindar forces  appear,  from  the  opposite  direc¬ tion.  If  contacted,  they  will  cooperate in  any  reasonable  way  with  the  human attack.
The  elvish  units  have  +1  magical weapons.
The  battle  begins  when  the  Timindar forces  are  36*  away  from  the  outer  edge of  Thurgabanteth  (and  have  entered heavy  catapult  range).  On  the  third turn,  the  elven  forces  appear,  also  36" away  on  the  other  side  of  the  map.
Timindar  commanders  are  set  up  as follows;  Araband  Tymin  with  Timin- dar  #1,  Zerbin  Gethrik  with  Timindar #3,  Olway  Lezard  with  Gray  Doom  #1, Lhrek  Jarsyn  with  Sailors  #3,  Iuman Chall  with  Sailors  #3.  Variath  is  not present  at  this  battle,
Yrhetep's  initial  forces  are  the  gob¬ lins,  ores,  and  ogres.  He  will  try  to draw  the  Timindar  forces  toward  the
hill,  and  then  bring  out  the  real  menace; the  daemons.  When  the  troops  have come  within  24ir  of  the  hill,  they  will emerge,  appearing  at  the  base  of Thurgabanteth.  Yrkhetep  will  not  be expecting  either  the  elves  or  the  treants, and  this  will  make  him  nervous;  he  will direct  catapult  fire  at  the  treants.
If  Durissa  is  still  alive  and  realizes that  Yrkhetep  used  her,  she  will  attempt to  make  recompense  for  her  misdeeds by  stealing  the  seal,  and,  invisibly, making  her  way  to  the  hill  and  smash¬ ing  the  seal.  Smashing  the  seal  does 20d6  damage  (no  saving  throw)  in  a  2" radius,  which  will  also  apply  to  units, regardless  of  magic  resistance  {Banes power  is  greater  than  that  of daemonkind).  So  she  might  eliminate  a few  units,  although  it  will  cost  her  life. One  round  after  the  seal  is  smashed,  the skeleton  knights  appear,  rising  from  the ground.  They  gel  a  free  attack  on  the first  round  that  they  appear  (ie.  they cannot  be  attacked),  and  then  will attack  normally.  They  will  not  attack the  Timindar  forces,  but  must  make  a Discipline  check  to  avoid  attacking  the elves.
If  Timindar  wins,  the  surviving  mer¬ cenaries  will  be  paid,  and  stronger  alli¬ ances  will  be  formed  between  the farmers,  elves  and  the  creatures  of  the wood.  The  region  will  become  even more  prosperous.  If  Yrkhetep Js  forces win,  then  they  will  bum  the  area, destroy  Timindar,  bum  much  of  the northern  forests  (killing  the  sulking Variath),  and  leave  to  the  greater  bat¬ tles  that  await  in  Hades.
After  Thurgabanteth
In  his  dark  home  of  misery,  Bane looked  upon  the  slaughter  and  laughed. He  heard  the  cries  of  the  dying  and quivered  with  delight.  He  saw  the  carri¬ on  circle  around  his  dark  footstool,  and sighed  contentedly.
" Behold r  he  shouted  at  his  sene¬ schal  ” Look  at  the  beauty  created  by but  a  single  seed  of  darkness ,  the  color of  destruction ,  the  music  of  death .  See horn  these  Ifttfe  creatures,  humans.
dance  at  my  command.  How  can  1  not triumph?"
The  seneschal  shook  his  head .  He knew  that  his  job  was  to  play  the  deva's advocate  at  such  moments .  " Some would  say  that  this  is  a  triumph  of  hero¬ ism,  of  the  human  spirit ,  The  fact  that these  men  wilt  overthrow  their  fears  to battle  great  odds  indicates  the  triumph of  hope ,  courage,  wisdom,  and  dare  l say  it— even  love?"
At  that  final  dreadful  word.  Bane shuddered ,  and  gave  his  servant  a  hate¬ ful  glance .  "hovel  Slaughter  is  slaugh¬ ter!  Misery  is  misery/  Courage  is  but  a word  that  these  humans  use  to  try  to hide  the  pain.  A  feeble  effort.  They  are mine .  They  always  shall  fee."
30
Timindar  Forces
Unii  Name
Gray  Doom  1 Gray  Doom  2
Sailors  1 Sailors  2 Sailors  3
Sailors  4 Timindar  1
Timindar  2 Timindar  3 Elves  1 Elves  2 Treants
Type
Inf
Arch
Level  AC
lifiFl  o
Fl  7
HD/Fig
8  10
10 1
MV
9"
12"
AR
20
pifsso
ML  DL
|1  11  11
9  9
#Fig  Dmg
6  ld8
.if  3  ”  ld6  1
Reg
Fl
4
1
sr
20
u
ii
6  ld8
Reg
F2
2
20
6"
20
11
11
2  ld8
Cav  F2
2
20  15"
2  20
12
:jSS  12
6  Id8/ld8/
Arch
"
■■■  |
Id8/ld3
Fl
8
10
12"
20
9
9
4  ld6
Reg
FO
9
5
12"
20
8
8
6  ld8
Arch
FO
9
5
12"
||  20
7
*
l.  7
5  ld6
Arrt.1
Fl
8
10
12"
20
mrnm
8
1  :  3  It.  ids
Reg
F3
5
30
12"
18
14
13
12  IdS  +  l
Arch
F3
5
3
12"
18
14
13
12  ld6  +  l
Trea
8
0
8
12"
17
14
13
12  2  d  1  6  /
2dl6
Yrkhetep's  Forces
Unit  Name
Type
Level
AC  HD/Fig
MV
AR
ML
DL
#Fig
Dmg
Goblins
Inf
Gobi
}6|;  10
6"
20
10
:  io
tU  1  1  5
ld6
Ores  1
Inf
Ore
6  10
9"
19
12
12
18
ldS
Ores  2
Arch
Ore
6  10
9n
19
11
11
9
ld6
Orges  1
Inf
Orge
5  20
9"
18
14
14
8
IdlO
Ogres  2
Art
Orge
S  20
git
20
14
14
4
IdlO
Mezzodaemons
Inf  MD
-3  20
15"
I|H !!■  Hi  III  1,1 I  SCS
20
15
1 A
ld6  +  6/ ld6+6
Yagnodaemons
YD
1  26  18"
Bane's  Forces
19
14
14
3
IdlO +12
Unit  Name
Type
Level
AC
HD/Fig
MV
AR
ML
DL
#Fig
Dmg
Skeleton  Warriors
Inf
SW
0
18
6"
19
15
16
10
IdlO
31
The  Battle  of  the  Five  Crowns
The  PCs  are  traveling  through  Chon- dath  for  reasons  mutually  agreed  upon by  the  DM  and  PCs.
When  visiting  the  city  of  Arrabar,  the party  hears  whispered  in  all  the  inns rumors  of  ominous,  daemonic  happen¬ ings  in  the  east*  The  party  decides  to investigate  and  takes  the  Highway  of the  Sunrise  toward  Hlath.
Sixty  miles  up  the  road,  where  Chon- dalwood  is  at  its  closest  point,  the  party finds  the  Inn  of  the  Five  Crowns.  It  is  a most  welcome  sight  since  the  sun  is beginning  to  set.
Clearly  an  impressive  establishment, the  inn  has  a  large  central  three-story building  with  wings  to  the  left  and  right and  a  large  stable  in  back,  along  with  a fenced  area  for  guests'  mounts  to  exer¬ cise.
Even  more  impressive  is  the  host gathered  around  it  .  Scores  of  armored troops  mill  about  the  inn.  Banners  rep¬ resenting  different  companies  flutter  in the  breeze.  Cooking  fires  and  sentry posts  have  been  hastily  assembled  on the  perimeter.
This  host  has  unusual  mounts.  Amid the  elves  and  knights  are  griffons  and pegasi,  the  soldiers  keeping  both  spe¬ cies  well  away  from  each  other.
To  the  left  of  this  winged  army  are soldiers  from  the  city  guard  of  Arrabar, and  a  group  of  female  warriors  in green/gray  cloaks  run  through  combat drills.
As  the  party  draws  closer,  a  man  and a  woman  emerge  from  the  crowd  and approach  the  party.  They  are  a  hand¬ some,  blond  couple  in  their  thirties, both  dressed  in  a  simple  robes  made  of spun  gold  and  beited  with  bands  of solid  gold.  They  wear  gold  circlets  on their  heads.  They  cany  wooden  staves shod  with  gold  ornaments  and  topazes.
The  man  introduces  himself  as  Auri- cose  and  his  wife,  Aurianthalius.  They are  kind  folk,  very  polite,  and  they invite  the  party  into  the  inn  for  refresh¬ ments.  Auricose  dismisses  all  questions with  a  casual  wave  of  his  hand,  "All will  be  answered  in  due  course,  my brave  friends.  Come  inside  and  refresh yourselves."
Inside  the  taverns  common  room, the  party  sees  two  evidently  experi¬ enced  human  knights,  an  elf  lord,  and  a femaie  warrior  talking  animatedly  over a  map*  Ignoring  them,  the  couple  ush¬ ers  the  party  to  seats  and  calls  for  food and  ale.  There  are  no  other  customers in  the  place.
Auricose  stands  and  begins  to  speak. JT  suppose  we  owe  you  an  explanation of  who  we  are  and  what  we  are  doing here*  These  forces  are  assembled  here for  a  war  against  a  host  most  sinister. This  evil  approaches  on  both  wings  and feet  and  includes  an  evil  cloud  giant's floating  castle*  Scouts  tell  us  they advance  even  now.  We  know  not  why they  come,  but  we  guess  they  wish  con¬ trol  of  the  road,  the  inn,  and  of  the  city of  Arrabar.
"It  is  not  the  castle  itself  that  is  the true  problem,  but  rather  the  gate  to Hades  that  has  been  set-up  beside  it. This  gate  is  meant  to  allow  daemonic armies  to  cross  back  and  forth,  and allow  a  powerful  daemon  lord  to  exert control  of  the  land,"
Auricoses  tale  is  interrupted  by  the four  commanders,  who  roll  up  their map  and  saunter  over  to  the  party.  One of  the  knights,  dressed  in  pure  white plate  mail,  looks  intently  at  the  party then  whispers  to  his  friends.  The  knight is  a  paladin,  and  he  is  detecting  for  evil in  the  party.
"So,  Auricose,  will  they  do  it?"  the knight  in  pure  white  plate  mail  asks,  as the  others  look  on  expectantly.
Auricose  shakes  his  head.  "1  have  not even  asked  them  yet,  Justin,  be  patient. We  still  have  some  time  before  the  foe doses  in  "
The  knight  known  as  Justin  flushes red.  '1  apologize  for  my  abruptness, good  folk,  but  urgency  dampens  my manners.  1  am  Justin  Ironedge,  a  holy warrior,  or  paladin,  as  some  call  me.  I command  the  unit  called  the Lightblades,  which  is  made  up  of pegasi-riding  knights  such  as  myself.  I am  also  considered  the  overall  com¬ mander  of  this  army,
"My  other  knightly  companion  here is  Bren  Wingblade,  he  who  commands
the  Windriders,  griffon-mounted knights*
"This  noble  elf  to  my  left  is  Lotherius Goldentree,  commander  of  the  Sun- shafts,  an  elfin  archer  unit  that  rides pegasi.
"Finally,  this  lovely  lady  is  Adrienne- dar  Valgarien,  commander  of  the  Sister¬ hood  of  the  Oaks*  She  and  her  women are  rangers  "
These  four  sit  down  and  join  the  par¬ ty  as  the  innkeeper  brings  the  ale*  He seems  concerned  that  his  precious  inn could  be  destroyed  in  the  ensuing  con¬ flict.
Auricose,  slightly  perturbed  at  this interruption,  resumes  the  story.
"We  have  other  allies.  As  you  can see,  the  6th  Municipal  Guard  of  Arra¬ bar  has  been  mustered  for  ground  sup¬ port*  Others  are  arriving  later.  But  we still  lack  one  thing.  We  need  a  group  to enter  the  cloud  giants  castle.  The  gate must  be  destroyed  and  the  cloud  giants rendered  harmless.  A  unit  flying  up  to the  castle  for  a  direct  assault  would  fail* Ah,  but  a  small  talented  group  such  as you  may  succeed  "
If  the  party  expresses  concern  about Auricose  knowing  who  they  are,  he  just smiles  and  replies,  "I  know  much.  That is  my  and  my  mate's  contribution  to this  noble  effort."
The  four  leaders  will  add  that  some of  the  party  could  even  lead  a  unit  or two  in  battle  if  they  are  qualified  and witling.  However,  they  recommend that  the  majority  go  to  the  castle.  Trans¬ port  to  the  castle,  incidentally,  will  be provided  by  the  golden  couple,  who smile  enigmatically,  clearly  enjoying being  mysterious*
The  innkeeper  has  been  listening  as he  deans  beer  mugs  at  the  bar* Unknown  to  everyone,  he  is  an  ultro- daemon  who  has  killed  the  real  inn¬ keeper  and  has  taken  his  form.  The  real innkeeper  is  buried  behind  the  stables. This  ultrodaemon  is  working  for Yrkhetep,  During  the  night,  he  will attempt  to  kill  the  party,  since  they  are an  unexpected  power,
Auricose  says  the  armies  are  expect¬ ed  to  reach  this  area  at  sunrise.  They  are
32
marching/flying  from  the  east,  and  the foul  host  is  hoping  to  have  the  advan¬ tage  of  the  sun  at  their  backs  and  in their  opponent's  faces.  He  suggests  that the  party  stay  the  night  at  the  inn  and start  at  dawn.
The  party  at  this  point  may  be  over¬ whelmed  about  all  this  and  might  not have  yet  agreed  to  go.  lustin  will  appeal to  any  good-aligned  PCsr  and  especial¬ ly  to  any  paladins  or  cavaliers,  from whom  he  will  demand  help,
If  the  thought  of  doing  good  is  not reward  enough,  Aurianthaiius  will  dis¬ gustedly  say  the  party  can  keep  any wealth  or  magic  found  in  the  castle "And  giants  certainly  have  enough  of both  to  satisfy  even  the  most  avaricious people,"  she  will  add  caustically.
Night  falls,  and  the  armies  have  tents pitched  all  around  the  area  of  the  inn. Grimslaak  will  gate  in  three  yagno- daemons  to  attack  the  party.  This  will occur  around  two  in  the  morning. Grimslaak  himself  will  not  take  part, keeping  his  identity  secret.
After  the  melee,  or  when  the  party  is getting  badly  beaten,  the  army  com¬ manders  arrive,  alerted  by  the  noise. They  will  be  impressed  by  the  PCs' combat  skills  and  will  aid  in  the  fight  if the  daemons  are  not  yet  dead.  How¬ ever,  they  are  also  very  worried,  since this  attack  clearly  means  that  the  ene¬ my  is  aware  of  the  party  and  its  plans. Their  mission  becomes  more  urgent.
The  next  morning  is  clear,  with  no clouds  or  breeze,  almost  as  if  nature itself  is  aware  of  what  will  transpire  and is  holding  its  breath.  The  armies  suit up.  Their  mounts,  anxious  to  fly,  paw the  ground  nervously.
The  party  is  awakened  by  Auricose, who  tells  them  it  is  time  to  go.  When  the party  ventures  outside,  they  see  that during  the  night  some  lammasu  and centaurs,  the  latter  from  Chondal- wood.  have  joined  the  host.
The  couple  grin  at  the  party,  then polymorph  into  their  true  forms,  that of  huge  adult  gold  dragons.  The  PCs who  are  attacking  the  castle  are  told  to climb  aboard  and  hold  on  tight.  The PCs  remaining  behind  can  lead  the  6th
Municipal  Guards,  the  lammasu,  who call  themselves  The  Winged  Law,  or  the centaurs.  Though  the  latter  will  not  be too  happy  being  led  by  a  human.  A  grif¬ fon  or  pegasus  will  be  available  to  any PC  who  wishes  to  command  or  even just  to  accompany  the  armies,  acting  as deputy  commanders.
As  the  PCs  and  the  dragons  race  clos¬ er  to  the  castle,  they  disappear.  The dragons  have  cast  invisibility  on  them¬ selves  and  invisibility  10'  radius  on  the PCs.  The  dragons  explain  this  only  if asked,  saying  that  stealth  is  necessary.
After  a  half  hours  ride,  the  group sees  dozens  of  specks  on  the  horizon, most  of  them  bardy  visible  against  the rising  sun.  Between  the  party  and  the distant  evil  hordes  sits  a  large  square castle  nestled  on  a  fluffy  cloud.  An  odd doorway,  10'  wide  and  25'  high,  sits  on the  same  cloud,  The  doorway  glows  an angry  red.  It  is  90'  to  the  right  of  the castle  and  guarded  by  six  yagno- daemons.  This  is  the  gate  to  Hades.
The  castle  itself  is  a  simple  square stone  structure  with  sides  170r  long  and 40'  high.  The  roof  is  graced  with  stone parapets.  Four  50r  wide  towers  are attached,  one  in  the  middle  of  each  wall rather  than  at  the  comers.  The  tower facing  west  contains  the  main  entrance. Eight  cloud  giants  patrol  the  parapets, each  with  a  griffon  on  a  leash.  Boulders for  throwing  are  within  the  sentries" reach.  A  spiral  staircase  set  in  the  mid¬ dle  of  the  roof  goes  down  into  the  cas¬ tle.
The  party  can  be  dropped  either  on the  roof  near  the  staircase  or  at  the  front door.  Auricose  stresses  that  they  carmot aid  the  party  any  further,  since  they must  save  their  breath  {literally}  and spells  for  the  enemy  armies.  If  the  party is  dropped  on  the  roof  and  lingers  there for  more  than  three  rounds,  the  giants will  smell  them  and  realize  that  there are  invaders  on  the  premises,  sounding the  alarm  and  searching  for  the  PCs.
The  dragons  also  explain  that  in order  to  destroy  the  gate,  the  party must  find  the  object  that  anchors  it  to this  plane.  It  may  well  be  in  the  castle.
Two  rounds  after  the  dragons  leave,
the  party  sees  the  evil  hordes  begin  their fly-by.  Wyvems,  harpies,  ores  riding manticores,  and  humans  on  hippogriffs race  by.  Bringing  up  the  rear  are  a  pair of  huge  red  dragons.  The  sentries  on  the roof  salute  them  as  they  pass.
The  Forces  Collide
The  defending  commanders  realize  that positioning  is  difficult  with  air  units. Their  goal  is  to  halt  the  advance  of  the evil  host,  especially  not  allowing  them to  gain  control  of  the  road  and  the  inn.
Order  of  Battle
Forces  of  Good
The  Windriders  are  5th  level  cavaliers mounted  on  griffons.  They  have  medi¬ um  lances  and  long  swords.  They  can assume  closed  formation  on  the ground.  They  are  led  by  Bren Wingbiade:  ST  17/70;  IN  14;  W5  14; CN  17/34;  DX  17/09;  CH  16;  CM  14; AC  -3;  Move  12" ;  CA7;  hp  60;  #AT  3/ 2;  Dmg  long  sword  or  lance;  THAC0 13;  AL  LG;  Rank  Unit;  AR  23;  OR  15" ; CB  +1;  long  sword  +3.
The  Lightblades  are  paladins  mount¬ ed  on  pegasi.  They  wield  medium  lanc¬ es  and  long  swords  +1.  They  are  are allowed  to  enter  closed  formation  when on  the  ground.  They  are  led  by  Justin Iron  edge:  ST  17/70;  IN  13;  WS  16;  DX 16/04;  CN  16/04;  CH  13/18;  CM  15; AC  -2;  Move  6" ;  PA8;  hp  70;  #AT  3/ 2;  Dmg  long  sword  or  lance;  THACO 13;  AL  LG;  Rank  Army;  AR  28;  CR 16";  CB  +2;  long  sword ,  +5  holy avenge  r
The  Sunshafts  are  elven  archers mounted  on  pegasi.  They  attack  3/2 with  their  swords.  They  are  allowed  to enter  closed  formation  on  the  ground. Their  leader  is  Lotharius  Goidentree: ST  16;  IN  13;  WS  13;  CN  10;  DX  IS; CH  15:  CM  15;  AC  0;  Move  9" ;  F7;  hp 40;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg  long  sword  or  long bow;  THACO  14;  AL  CG;  Rank  Unit; AR  29;  CR  14";  CB  +1;  long  swardt flame  tongue .
The  Sisterhood  of  Oaks  are  all  female
33
rangers  with  high  Dexterity  scores. They  carry  long  swords  and  long  bows. They  begin  in  open  formation.  They are  led  by  Adriennedar  Valgarien:  ST 17;  IN  14;  WS  16;  CN  16;  DX  16;  CH 17;  CM  15;  AC  1;  Move  9" ;  R 5;  hp  54; #AT  1;  Dmg  long  sword  or  long  bow; THACO  15;  AL  CGj  Rank  Unit;  AR  30; CRl4";CB  +2.
The  6th  Municipal  Guard  are  among the  best  of  Airabars  city  guard.  The city  leaders,  with  remarkable  foresight, sent  them  to  stall  the  evil  forces  so  the city  may  have  time  to  organize  a  good defense.  They  begin  in  dosed  forma¬ tion.
The  Winged  Law  is  a  group  of  1am- masu  who  wish  to  help  protect  good. They  cannot  enter  dosed  formation.
The  centaurs  are  locals  from  Chon* dalwood  and  are  here  to  protect  it  from invasion.  They  have  long  swords  in addition  to  their  bows.  They  begin  in open  formation.
The  two  huge  adult  gold  dragons  are here  because  they  heard  the  evil  host recruited  two  red  dragons.  They  think this  is  hardly  fair  and  have  joined  the good  forces.
Evil  Forces
The  Dark  Watch  are  elite  air  archers  on hippogriffs,  all  with  high  Dexterity,  and neutral  evil.  They  are  armed  with  long bows  and  long  swords.  They  can  enter dosed  formation  on  the  ground.  They are  commanded  by  Thurindar  Pelamar: ST  17;  IN  17;  WS  11;  CN  16;  DX  16; CH  18;  CM  15;  AC  3;  Move  9" ;  F6;  hp 72;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg  long  sword  or  long bow;  THACO  13;  AL  NE;  Rank  Unit; AR  28;  CR  16";  CB  +  2;
The  Arrowflighters  are  2d  level  ore archers  mounted  on  manticores.  Not only  do  the  ores  fight,  but  the  manti¬ cores  launch  two  volleys  of  six  spikes, one  volley  per  round.  Elves  are  their hated  opponents.  The  Arrowflighters may  enter  dosed  formation  when  on the  ground.  This  is  an  elite  unit,  com¬ manded  by  Quuvesh:  ST  16;  IN  9 ;  WS 10;  CN  18;  DX  17;  CH  6;  CM  4;  AC  2; Move  9*;  F7;  hp  40;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg
long  sword  or  long  bow;  THACO  14; AL  LE;  Rank  Unit;  AR  29;  CR  6";  CB
The  Sky  killers  are  air  cavalry  riding hippogriffs.  They  are  armed  with  long swords  +1.  The  unit  can  enter  closed formation  on  the  ground.  Their  leader is  Sir  Lehakin:  ST  16/79;  IN  17;  WS  14; CN  16/65;  DX  16/34;  CH  18;  CM  16; AC  ^2;  Move  6";  CV8;  hp  66;  #AT  3/ 2;  Dmg  long  sword  or  lance;  THACO 14;  AL  LE;  Rank  Unit;  AR  29;  CR  16" ; CB  +2;  long  sword  +4.
The  Cloudwarriors  are  cloud  giants from  the  floating  castle.  They  wield great  clubs  and  hurl  rocks.  They  begin in  open  formation.
The  Sisterhood  of  Carrion  is  a  group of  harpies  that  will  attempt  to  charm the  enemy.  They  can  never  enter  closed formation.
The  wyverns  were  summoned  by Yrkhetep  to  supplement  the  dragon force.
Yrkhetep  s  Devoted  are  4th  level  neu¬ tral  evil  clerics.  They  are  fanatics  that never  need  to  check  morale.  They  begin in  dosed  formation.  The  DM  is  free  to choose  their  spells.  They  are  led  by Kara  Godslave;  ST  14;  IN  18;  WS  IS; DX  16;  CN  16;  CH  16;  CM  12;  AC  -1; Move  6";  CLB;  hp  60;  #AT  1;  Dmg footman's  mace;  THACO  13;  AL  NE; Rank  Unit;  AR  26;  CR  12";  CB  +1; footmans  mace  -*-3.
Spells:  cure  light  luoimds  (x2),  curse (x2),  darkness ,  silence  15*  radius  (x3), resist  fire,  hold  person ,  dispel  magic (x3),  feign  death ,  cure  serious  wounds , protection  from  good  10*  radius,  sticks to  snakes
Set  Up
It  is  a  calm,  cloudless  morning.  The  ter¬ rain  around  the  inn  is  fiat  grasslands with  Chondalwqod  to  the  southwest. The  forces  of  good  set  up  first.  Air  units should  start  out  no  further  than  120' (4" )  from  the  Inn,
The  Windriders  and  the  gold  dragons start  at  medium  altitude,  the Lightbiades,  Sunshafts,  and  lammasu at  low  altitude.  The  good  forces  will
fight  at  +1  penalty  to  their  AR  due  to the  sun  in  their  eyes.
The  evil  armies  gain  a  +1  to  their morale  due  to  the  sun  at  their  backs. Yrkhetep  will  accompany  the  Dark Watch.
The  Dark  Watch,  Skykillers,  and wyverns  start  out  at  medium  altitude, the  Arrowflighters,  red  dragons  and harpies  at  low  altitude.
Victory  conditions  for  the  evil  host are  the  capture  of  the  inn  and  the  road while  having  at  least  ten  figures  left. Control  of  the  road  is  defined  as  one side  having  the  only  non-routed  units on  the  control  locations.  The  control locations  are:  the  eastern-  and  western¬ most  road  edges,  the  stretch  directly  in front  of  the  inn,  and  the  point  where  the forest  meets  the  road.
All  advanced  rules  are  in  effect. Remember  that  all  airborne  units  must be  in  open  formation  while  they  are  in the  air.  The  board  should  be  16  feet  by  6 feet.
Special  Rules:  Bren  Wingblade  and Sir  Leharkin  are  mortal  knightly  ene¬ mies.  They  will  seek  each  other  out  and fight  a  duel  to  the  death.  All  units  com¬ manded  by  the  loser  must  immediately make  a  morale  check  with  appropriate penalties.  If  they  succeed,  they  get  a  - 1 AR  bonus— the  death  of  such  a  popular leader  has  whipped  them  into  a  battle fury.  If  the  morale  check  fails,  they rout-
Any  evil  units  that  enter  Chon  dal¬ wood  are  attacked  as  soon  as  they  pro¬ ceed  more  than  2 ”  into  the  woods. Their  attackers  are  centaurs  and  satyrs using  guerrilla  tactics.  For  game  play, use  an  abstract  AR  of  18,  and  IdS  dam¬ age.  The  guerrillas  do  not  need  to  check morale  or  discipline  and  cannot  be attacked.  Evil  units  must  make  a morale  check  every  round  after  the  ini¬ tial  guerrilla  attack.  Failure  means  they bolt  out  of  the  woods  as  quickly  as  pos¬ sible,  The  guerrillas  will  continue  to attack  until  the  enemy  units  leave  the woods.
34
The  Giants'  Castle
The  castle  is  very  simply  constructed. It  is  a  two  story  structure,  each  story  is 20'  high.  A  30'-wide  hallway  splits  each level  into  four  large  rooms  of  equal dimensions,  A  spiral  staircase  located at  both  of  the  hall  intersections  con¬ nects  the  first  and  second  levels  and gives  access  to  the  roof.  The  first  floor halls  end  with  doors  leading  to  the  tow¬ ers.
Each  tower  is  three  levels  high,  the only  entrance  is  at  ground  level.  The Four  towers  house  ten  giants  each, though  currently  16  giants  are  on  the ground  participating  in  the  war.  Out  of the  remaining  24  giants,  eight  will  be asleep,  two  in  each  tower.  Each  tower has  the  same  layout:  the  first  floor  is  the living  area,  the  upper  floors  are  sleep- mg  quarters.  There  is  no  treasure  in  the towers.  Doors  to  the  towers  are  10' wide  and  always  locked.
The  west  tower's  first  floor  contains the  castle's  main  doors.  The  doors  are 3Q'-wide  double  iron  doors.  They  are locked.  Even  when  unlocked,  it  takes  a creature  with  cloud  giant  strength  (23) and  mass  to  open  them,  or  a  group  of  at least  three  man-sized  creatures  with  a combined  strength  of  at  least  50.  The doors  will  open  to  a  /mode  spell  or chime  of  opening.
All  rooms  measure  70'  square  with 20' -wide  double  doors,  always  locked. They  also  require  a  23  strength  to  open.
The  castle  is  made  of  granite,  and  sits atop  a  puffy  cumulus  doud  that  floats at  an  altitude  of  600',
Room  Descriptions
Since  all  the  rooms  are  the  same  size and  of  the  same  configuration,  it  does not  matter  which  quarter  of  the  level  it occupies.
Ground  floor.  Dining  hail;  This room  is  empty  except  during  dinner time  (sundown)  or  parties.  There  are two  tables  of  solid  oak,  50'  long  and  20' wide,  with  14  giant  chairs  around  each. There  are  28  gold  plates,  mugs,  bowls, and  eating  utensils  stacked  in  cabinets.
The  entire  set  is  worth  28,000  gp.  Ban¬ ners  from  armies  the  giants  have  defeat¬ ed  hang  from  the  ceiling.  Two  tapestries hanging  on  the  walls  show  cloud  giants building  the  castle  and  fighting  other (good)  doud  giants.  Each  tapestry  is  20' square  and  is  worth  5,000  gp.
Grand  study;  Carpeted  in  sky  blue deep  shag,  this  is  among  the  most  com¬ fortable  rooms  in  the  castle.  A  massive fireplace  lies  opposite  the  door;  a  two- handed  sword  of  sharpness  hangs  over the  mantle.  The  sword's  dweomer  is hidden  by  a  reversed  Nystul’s  magic aura  spell.  Bookcases  hold  tomes  of  all shapes,  sizes,  and  languages.  Three large  sofas  and  four  large  (even  by  giant standards)  easy  chairs  are  scattered haphazardly  about  the  room.  A  spotted Hon  stalks  about  in  this  room.  When  it hears  the  door  open,  it  hides  behind  a sofa  and  peeks  at  the  intruder.  If  the intruder  is  not  a  giant,  it  lies  in  wait. When  the  intruder  is  dose  enough,  it pounces,  automatically  gaining  at  least one  segment  of  surprise.
Kitchen  and  storage:  Before  the  party enters,  they  smell  meat  roasting  and bread  baking.  This  room  has  a  vast pantry  with  sides  of  meat  from  many sorts  of  creatures.  In  addition,  there  are sacks  of  spices  and  dry  goods.  There  are casks  of  ale,  brandy,  and  wine,  three  of each,  stacked  in  a  far  corner  Each  cask is  giant -sized  and  holds  100  gallons. The  kitchen  proper  has  two  ovens,  four fire  pits,  and  three  work  tables.  A  large sink  and  pump  produce  one  gallon  of hot  or  cold  water  per  round  upon  com^ mand.  Many  cooking  and  cutting  uten¬ sils  hang  from  the  walls.  There  are several  cookbooks,  including  one called,  'The  Best  Ways  to  Serve  Man." Three  cloud  giants  work  in  here,  their dubs  within  easy  reach.  Before  attack¬ ing,  they  will  use  pots  and  pans  as makeshift  gongs  to  warn  the  rest  of  the castle.  There  are  also  two  spotted  lions skulking  about,  gobbling  up  scraps  the cooks  let  fall.
War  Room,  The  most  impressive  fea¬ ture  of  this  room  is  the  massive  map  of the  area  set  into  the  wall  opposite  the door.  Little  pins  show  the  armies  of
good  and  evil,  white  for  good,  orange for  evil.  One  orange  pin  has  the  word "Yrkhetep"  printed  on  it*  Another orange  pin  is  on  the  Inn,  with  the  phrase "Grimslaak-irmkeeper"  A  notation  on one  comer  of  the  map  says  "Best  of Hades."  There  is  a  large,  oak  table  and eight  seats.  Scattered  documents  and scrolls  give  the  exact  strengths  of  the evil  hosts  (with  a  profile  on  each  unit commander  and  the  tactics  he  plans  to use  in  the  battle),  an  account  of Grimslaak’s  deception,  the  PCs’  names and  classes  with  estimates  of  their powers,  and  a  final  scrap  saying  "Next: Orient?!"
The  room  is  guarded  by  four  dergho- daemons.
Upper  Level,  The  chief's  room  This vast  chamber  is  carpeted  in  mink  pelts worth  50,000  gp.  The  bed  is  solid  pine set  with  24  emeralds  worth  500  gp  each. A  chest  under  the  bed  is  locked  and trapped  with  a  poison  needle  (save  at -3  or  die).  The  chest  is  eight  feet  long and  four  feet  wide.  Inside  is  the  wealth of  the  castle:  17,500  pp,  19  gems  worth 1,000  gp  each,  a  ring  of  shooting  stars,  a ring  of  truth ,  a  bastard  swordt  +2  giant slayer,  gauntlets  of  ogre  power,  a  staff of  the  magi,  a  staff  of  the  woodlands, and  a  cloak  of  elvenkind .  These  items are  man-sized  and  useless  to  the  giants. They  plan  to  sell  them  soon.
The  Chief,  Fracto-Nimbuli,  and  his three  spotted  lion  pets/guards  are  also here.  The  chief  is  sitting  in  his  chair, admiring  himself  in  his  mirror.  He  can see  the  exact  position  of  each  PC  as  they enter  the  room,  courtesy  of  his  mirror.
Fracto-Nimbuli:  AC  -2;  Move  15"; HD  12  +  7;  hp  90;  #  AT  1;  Dmg  6-36  +  4; THAC0  9;  SA  hurl  rocks  2dl2  hp;  SD surprised  only  on  a  X;  MR  30% .
Fracto  is  the  vain,  greedy  owner  of this  castle.  Yrkhetep  has  promised  him power  and  wealth  if  he  helps  in  the  bat¬ tle.  Fracto  wears  a  silver  headband which  confers  30%  magic  resistance  to the  wearer,  shrinking  or  expanding  to fit.  His  massive  club  is  enchanted  to +4,
35
Spotted  Lions  (3):  AC  5/6;  Move IT  ;  HD  6  +  2;  hp  50;  #AT  3;  Dmg  1-4/
1- 4/1-12;  THACO 13;  SA  rear  daws  for
2- 3/2 -6;  SD  surprised  only  on  a  1;  AL N.
Fracto  has  personally  trained  these lions  since  birth.  They  obey  his  orders exactly,  and  receive  a  +  4  bonus  vs,  any charm  spells  due  to  their  intense  devo¬ tion  to  Fracto,
Prison;  A  good  cloud  giant  and  a  sil¬ ver  dragon  are  chained  in  this  room, guarded  by  evil  two  cloud  giants.  If released,  the  prisoners  will  help  the  par¬ ty  escape  the  castle.  They  might  even aid  in  fighting  the  denizens  of  the  castle if  the  party  deals  politely  with  them.
The  cloud  giant  is  called  Cirrus Thunderhead,  the  dragon  is  Agrelia. Both  were  scouts  for  the  good  host  but were  captured.  They  were  being  saved for  a  sacrificial  offering,
Agrelia  is  a  female  adult  silver dragon.  She  has  no  spell  casting  ability but  wishes  she  did.
Gate  Conjuration  Room;  A  platinum thaumaturgic  circle  is  set  into  the  floor, dominating  the  room.  Replicas  of  the castle  and  gate  hover  above  it.  There  is a  golden  compass  rose  set  in  the  ceiling. This  controls  the  direction  of  drift  for the  cloud  castle.  The  replicas  front  is pointed  to  the  compass  heading  that  the giants  wish  to  steer,  it  takes  Strength  of 23  to  move  the  replica.
An  ultrodaemon  maintains  the  gate through  heavy  concentration.  There are  four  yagnodaemons  and  a  cloud giant  assigned  to  protect  the  ultro¬ daemon  and  make  sure  his  concentra¬ tion  is  not  broken.  They  will  attack  any intruders  immediately.
The  ultrodaemon  cannot  fight  while concentrating  on  the  gate.  If  he  is injured,  the  gate  winks  out  of  existence. Yrkhetep  will  be  immediately  aware  of this,  but  will  remain  in  the  battle  below. The  ultrodaemon  will  attack  if  the  gate is  broken.
If  the  castle  replica  is  smashed,  the whole  castle  lurches  and  topples  earth¬ ward,  crashing  in  three  rounds.  All inside  will  die  on  impact.
Griffon/Lion  Den;  Eight  griffons  and eight  spotted  lions  occupy  this  room. They  will  attack  any  non-daemon  or non-giant  who  enters.
The  Roof:  Eight  cloud  giants  with griffons  on  leashes  always  patrol  this area .  There  is  an  alarm  gong  here  which is  used  to  alert  the  rest  of  the  castle.
Leaving  the  Castle
There  are  several  ways  to  leave  the  cas¬ tle,  The  party  can  get  a  ride  on  Agrilea  s back,  or  try  and  ride  one  of  the  griffons. The  latter  will  be  nearly  impossible unless  the  griffons  charmed .  Cirrus  will offer  to  feuitofe  earthward,  carrying three  PCs  with  him.
If  the  evil  host  is  victorious,  the  lead¬ ers,  the  giants  and  the  red  dragons  will return  to  the  cloud  castle.  Due  to  the quick  and  especially  violent  nature  of the  battle,  an  outcome  can  be  expected in  less  than  two  hours.  If  the  party  is still  in  the  cloud  castle,  they  may  have  a bit  more  to  deal  with  than  they  bar¬ gained  for,  Yrkhetep  will  also  probably return  to  the  castle  before  continuing his  campaign  of  terror.
The  Gate
The  six  yagnodaemons  that  guard  the gate  will  attempt  to  throw  any approaching  non-giant  or  non-daemon into  it.  It  leads  to  Hades,  specifically  to the  foot  of  Yrkhetep  s  castle.  A  group  of six  yagnodaemons  that  patrol  the grounds  will  immediately  accost  the reluctant  travelers.
The  gate  can  only  be  destroyed  by mining  its  model  counterpart  in  the cloud  giants'  castle.
If  the  party  assails  the  gate  and  its guardians,  the  yagnodaemons  will automatically  summon  one  dergho- daemon  each  round  as  reinforcements. If  the  party  flees,  the  yagnodaemons will  not  give  chase,  but  the  dergho- daemons  will.
Aftermath
If  the  party  went  through  the  entire  cas¬ tle,  they  have  some  idea  of  some  of  the goings  on  at  the  battle.  They  can  cer¬ tainly  deal  with  the  false  innkeeper  if the  place  is  still  standing.
36
Forces  of  Good
UNIT  NAME
TYPE
LVL
AC
HD/FIG
MV
AR
ML
DL
#FIG
DMG
Windriders
Cav
Cv5
1
25  i-
12"/30"{MC  D)
20
15
17
6
ld6  +  1/164/
■■■■■  *  *■  '■■■■  S3
Id4/2d8
Lightblades
Cav
P3
6
30
24"/48’'(MCD)
16
14
16
6
ld8  +  l/ld8/ Id8/ld3
Sunshafts
Cav
F7
35
24"/48''{MCD)
18
17
17
16
Id8/ld8/ld8/ ld3  *
6th  guards
Inf
F3
2
30
6
18
13
13
10
ld8
Sisterhood  of  the  Oaks
Arch
R3
3
30
12
18
13
13
6
ld6
Winged  Law  *  *  Air
Lam
6
35  :
12*724"  (MC  C)
17
12
14
6
Id6/ld6
Centaurs
Archers
Cen
5
40
18
15
13
12
6
**ld8/ld6/ld6
Gold  Dragons
Air
GD
-i
11
12"/30"<MC  E)
25
16
16
2
Id8/ld8/6d6
Evil  Forces
UNIT  NAME
Type
LvI
AC
HD/Fig
MV
AR
ML
DL
#FIG
Ding
Dark  Watch
Arch
F6
5  |
30
18"/36,r(MCD)
21
14
14
6
Xd6/ld6/ld6/
=  ■
S  *  *  *fttf
«  «
ldlO
Arrowflighters
Arch
F2
6
20
12"/18"{MC  E)
20
14
14
6
Id6/6d6
Sky  killers
Cav
F7
4
35
18"/36"(MC  D)
18
17
17
10
ld8  + 1 /ld6/
&  «: «  i
IHHH
n
&
Id6/ldl0
Cloud  warriors
Inf
CGi
2
24
15"
19
13
13
8
6d6
Sisterhood  of  Carrion
Air
Harp
7
30
6"/15*(MC  C)
16
10
8
8
Id3/ld3/ld6
Yrkhetep's  Devoted
Inf
C4
2
40
6/24
17
13
12
6
ld6  +  l
Wyvems
Air
Wyv
3
35
9V24"(MCE)
25
15
15
2
2d8/ld6  +
Red  Dragons
Air
RD
-1
11
9"/24"  (MC  E)
25
16
16
2
Id8/ld8/3dl0
The  Khan's  Mighty  Army
It  begins  with  rumors  in  Hlath— a  huge army  has  been  sighted  in  the  eastern wastelands,  marching  west  intoUnther. Soon  peasants  and  refugees  begin  pour¬ ing  in  from  the  southeast,  telling  horror stories  of  a  barbarian  horde,  of  demons and  monsters,  of  riders  with  bloody scimitars.  The  people  tell  of  a  mysteri¬ ous  "Khan '  who  leads  this  deadly  army. His  warriors  number  thousands,  swol¬ len  with  slaves  from  every  city  that  falls to  him.
It  seems  that  an  unstoppable  army threatens  to  overwhelm  Chondath,  and the  good  folks  of  Hlath  are  getting scared  *
This  adventure  is  for  PCs  level  10-12, The  role-playing  adventure  can  be started  in  many  different  ways;  the  PCs can  begin  by  wandering  into  the  bar¬ barian  army  and  meeting  Szuma  (see The  Bushido  Warrior),  If  they  serve Hlath  or  Chondath  already,  they  can  be recalled  from  another  front  to  defend the  homelands.  The  PCs  could  be  pass¬ ing  through  Hlath,  traveling  by  boat  to Hlondeth  or  Arrabar,  or  to  Alaghon  in Turmish,  or  they  could  be  traveling  the Arrabar-Hlathian  highway  when  they hear  that  mercenaries  are  being  hired. With  their  qualifications  and  skills,  the PCs  could  easily  gain  command  posts in  the  Hlathian  armed  forces.  Whether their  hearts  are  filled  with  altruism  or avarice,  they'll  be  drawn  to  Hlath,
Hlath  of  Chondath
Hlath  is  a  rich  merchant  dty  set  on the  waters  of  the  Vilhon  Reach,  just  130 miles  from  the  Sea  of  Fallen  Stars,  Its largest  import  is  timber  and  exotic woods,  raw  and  carved.  Many  long warehouses  brimming  with  lumber stand  along  the  highway  to  Arrabar outside  the  city's  great  walls.
No  novice  to  pirates  and  raiding  arm¬ ies,  Hlath  has  fifty-foot  walls,  well  but¬ tressed  and  set  with  ramparts.  Each  of the  city's  land-locked  gates  to  the  east, south,  and  west,  have  a  portcullis  out* side  the  main  structure.  Six  stone  piers extend  forty  feet  from  the  northern  wall into  the  waters  of  the  Reach,  Only  the
center  two  have  gates  opening  into  the city;  these  gates  are  protected  by  draw¬ bridges.  The  population  numbers  about 2,000.  mostly  merchants  and  focal  fish¬ ermen  (the  latter  are  renown  tor  their long  and  durable  nets).  The  people  are packed  into  a  small  area,  cramped  but safe  inside  the  thick  walls.
Visitors  are  greeted  by  a  lot  of  com¬ motion.  People  of  all  races  rush  from place  to  place.  Merchants  pack  their wares  and  close  up  shop,  groups  of poorly  trained  locals  march  the  streets and  call  for  their  neighbors  to  join  the militia  and  defend  the  homeland.  A group  of  Turmish  men  are  hurriedly patching  a  longboat  in  the  street,  ignor¬ ing  the  curses  of  inconvenienced  trav¬ elers.  Cattle  and  goats  wander  the  dirty cobblestones,  and  pigeons  flutter  and coo,  scattering  before  the  adventurers. The  streets  wind  between  four-  and five-story  buildings  lined  up  wall  to wall,  like  tipsy  rakes  leaning  on  one another  for  support.  Every  store-front teeters  over  the  dim  lanes.  Young  boys distribute  handbills  to  everyone— proclamations  by  the  authorities  cover¬ ing  preparations  for  a  siege  and  a  call  to arms.  The  notices  promise  generous mercenary  wages  and  give  instructions on  enlisting.
If  the  PCs  follow  the  instructions  on the  handbills,  they  will  come  to  a  large building  near  the  eastern  wall,  the Hlathian  Armory  and  Great  Hall.  It  is three  stories  tall  with  barred  windows and  a  flagstone  courtyard.  The  party will  be  recognized  as  seasoned  warriors immediately,  and  a  militiaman  will  rush them  inside  to  meet  with  the  commu¬ nity  leaders.
The  party  is  ushered  through  a  sim¬ ple  hall  and  lead  into  a  wide  conference room  furnished  with  a  heavy  oaken table  and  many  surrounding  chairs. There  are  rich  tapestries  and  ceremoni¬ al  weapons  hanging  on  the  walls  (value 20,000  gp).  Five  men  stand  around  the table  discussing  a  map.  One  man  keeps notes.  All  activity  stops  as  the  party enters.  The  Militiaman  announces  the PCs  as  more  who  have  come  to  join  the cause,  then  takes  his  leave,  A  portly
man  steps  forward  in  greeting.  His name  is  Lord  Fior  Botpur,  and  he  is  the "duly  elected  representative  of  the  peo¬ ple  of  Hlath  T
Forgetting  to  introduce  the  others with  him,  Botpur  immediately  quizzes the  party  about  their  past  fighting  expe¬ rience,  If  the  party  has  been  through  the other  scenarios  in  this  book,  Botpur will  be  impressed.  While  the  PCs  talk, Botpur  nervously  wrings  his  hands. When  they  finish,  he  will  explain  that he  is  very  worried  about  his  people's safety.  Clearing  his  throat,  the  Lord proclaims:
'The  safety  of  the  people  is  what matters  here!  While  many  would  die rather  than  see  Hlath  fall  to  barbarians, we  must  think  about  the  children  and the  women  and  those  too  old  to  fight.  I must  say  it  is  important  that  we  make correct  decisions,  whether  to  flee, whether  to  fight,  and  we're  so  woefully lacking  in  the  truths!  We  need  the  truth! I  am  impressed  by  your  list  of  accom¬ plishments,  and  our  need  is  great.  Gen¬ tlemen,  you  could  take  a  high  post  in my  army  by  responding  to  this,  my challenge;  Ride  like  the  wind  three  hun¬ dred  miles  to  the  south  and  collect  the truth  of  this  barbarian  army  and  bring it  back  to  me.  I  will  see  that  you  have the  finest  horses  and  the  best  supplies for  your  mission.  As  duly  appointed leader  I  shall  see  to  your  award,  and place  you  at  the  helm  of  our  armada  1"
Botpurs  speech  surprises  his  confi¬ dants,  and  a  small  bald  man  begins  to argue  with  him  over  his  right  to  make  this bargain.  But  the  lord  continues,  "'No,  no, all  your  maps  are  bought  from  fleeing peasants,  and  none  we  have  commis¬ sioned  have  returned  to  aid  usl  Look  at this/'  and  the  lord  snatches  up  the  map from  the  table  and  waves  it  in  the  air,  Tt's nonsense,  it's  impossible!  We  must  know the  truth!  The  offer  stands — return  with the  truth  about  our  enemy  and  you  will lead  our  army.  I  will  not  argue  anymore, we  are  not  mighty  warriors,  and  we  can't leave  this  in  the  hands  of  a  mason's  son! This  is  no  war  council  T  And  throwing the  map  to  the  floor,  the  lord  stomps  out of  the  room.
38
The  small  bald  man  will  address  the players,  and  tell  them  that  they  have  an offer  ta  join  the  ranks  as  mercenaries  at 4  gp  per  day  or  they  can  take  the  lord's challenge  and  take  high  level  posts  at  75 gp  per  day  plus  bonuses  for  victories.  If the  PCs  want  to  spy  and  claim  the  high¬ est  ranks  in  the  army,  they  must  leave immediately,  The  bald  man  is  Minister Thom.  He  carries  lists  on  scrolls  and tally  books:  reports  to  support  his  call to  abandon  the  dty.  He  explains  that ordinarily  Hlath  is  governed  by  a  tri¬ umvirate  council,  the  Three  Lords  of Hlath,  but  Lord  Warkas  and  Lord Nybahn  are  in  the  Turmish  Courts  for negotiations  and  a  wedding.  Botpur's word  rules,  even  though  Thom  con¬ siders  Lord  Botpur  a  wind-bag  and  a buffoon.  He  is  very  angry  that  the  lord has  used  this  offer  to  stall  a  painful  deci¬ sion,  and  he  distrusts  the  PCs.  He  will try  to  discourage  the  party  with  stories of  others  who  have  been  commissioned as  spies  and  never  returned.  They  prob¬ ably  died  at  the  hands  of  vicious  bar¬ barians.  He  warns  the  PCs  that  the army  is  only  300  miles  to  the  south,  so one  week  is  all  he  will  allow  for  their "mission"  before  he  calls  for  an  evacua¬ tion.
The  PCs  can  question  others  (various members  of  the  community  are  out¬ lined  below),  to  learn  more  about  the situation.  True  to  his  word.  Lord  Bot¬ pur  will  provide  good  warhorses  and one  week's  supply  of  food  for  all  those who  go  on  the  mission.  He  will  see  the party  off  and  wish  them  well.
If  the  PCs  return,  Thom  will  be  genu¬ inely  happy  to  see  them,  but  he  will  be wary  of  Szuma  (see  below).  He  is  glad to  let  the  PCs  take  control  of  the  defense of  the  city  because  it  relieves  him  of  the responsibility,  and  he  will  quietly  slip away  in  a  small  sail  boat  if  an  attacking force  arrives.  Upon  their  return,  a grateful  Lord  Botpur  will  allow  the  PCs free  reign  over  the  troops  and  the defenses  of  the  city,  and  will  support any  plan  his  new  generals  put  forth. Not  too  lion-hearted  himself,  Botpur will  be  terribly  frightened  by  the  battle and  will  hide  until  it  is  over.
Influential  Hlathians;
Baron  Krondac  is  a  4th  level  fighter age  50,  who  witnessed  Botpur's  offer  to the  PCs,  He  is  a  loud  talker  who  has brought  a  force  to  join  the  defenders {see  Order  of  Battle),  He  wanted  Pho- hidge,  the  mason's  son,  to  lead  the troops  in  battle  because  he  had  influ¬ ence  with  the  younger  man.  The  baron will  want  to  attack  the  enemy  before they  reach  the  city.  He  is  a  poor  combat leader.  His  strategy  is  short-sighted, and  he  takes  orders  belligerently,  yet  he adds  -2  to  the  morale  of  his  unit.  In  the BATTLESYSTEM™  Fantasy  Combat System  that  follows,  Baron  Krondac can  only  act  as  a  hero  or  commander when  he  leads  his  own  men.  If  the  party returns  with  Szuma,  the  baron  will demand  that  he  be  imprisoned  and questioned.  If  the  PCs  refuse,  the  baron will  sulk  and  hurl  racial  insults  at  Szu¬ ma.
Pohidge  Flam  is  6th  level  fighter  who is  known  about  town  by  his  father's reputation,  masonry.  Pohidge  spent  15 years  chasing  fortunes.  He  wields  a long  sword  +  2.  For  the  last  three  years he  has  lived  a  settled,  domestic  life  with a  wife,  living  off  past  earnings.  Pohidge is  apt  at  leading  his  own  people.  He loves  them  and  hopes  for  few  casual¬ ties.  Pohidge  is  sensitive  and  proud  of his  name  and  will  quarrel  with  anyone who  teases  him  or  laughs.  He  was offended  by  Botpur's  offer  to  the  PCs, as  he  had  been  the  logical  choice  for general,  considering  his  combat  experi¬ ence  and  the  fact  that  he  is  a  citizen. However,  he  will  loyally  serve  his  lord and  will  respect  the  PCs  for  their accomplishments.  He  will  judge  any war  plans  strictly  by  their  merits,  but Baron  Krondac  will  sway  his  opinions in  other  matters.  Plam  can  fight  with any  unit  and  can  act  as  an  NFC  hero.
Dak  Zaire  also  witnessed  Lord  Bot¬ purs  challenge.  He  is  an  8th  level  fighter with  extraordinary  strength  (18/78), hired  to  fight  in  the  armed  forces.  His long  black  hair  is  tied  into  a  braid,  and  he is  marked  with  a  bright  scar  under  his  left eye.  Zaire's  band  of  many  Turmish  war¬ riors  is  called  the  Blood  Hawks.  Their
standard  is  a  blood  red  hawk  on  a  field  of white.  Zarre  was  hired  to  fight  under Pohidge.  He  believes  the  PCs  are  sea¬ soned  warriors  better  qualified  to  com¬ mand.  He  will  support  the  PCs'  mission and  will  invite  them  to  stay  at  the  Blue Roan,  Mira  Satras  lodging  house  (see below),  where  he  and  some  of  his  more important  men  are  lodged.  He  has  a  good knowledge  of  tactics,  but  as  he  would  put it,  "Me  and  my  men  are  paid  to  fight,  not think."  He's  not  worried— the  Hawks negotiated  special  wages  and  they  make good  money  sitting  and  waiting.  Zarre will  take  orders  well  in  the  field,  and  his men  are  courageous  by  mercenary  stand¬ ards.  He  will  scoff  at  any  plan  that  calls for  passive  defense.  He  fights  with  his unit  and  cannot  act  as  a  NPC  hero  in  the BATTLESYSTEM  Fantasy  Combat  Sys¬ tem.
Ulliam,  the  High  Priest  of  Temp  us,  is a  striking  fellow  wearing  a  gleaming steel  skullcap,  his  head  is  shaved  except for  one  lock  growing  from  his  left  tem¬ ple  and  pulled  back  behind  his  ear.  He will  see  the  wisdom  in  a  sneak  attack and  support  any  such  plan  whole¬ heartedly,  Ulliam  believes  that  the  PCs were  sent  in  answer  to  his  prayers  to Tempus,  and  he  has  faith  that  the  PCs can  lead  them  to  victory.  He  cannot  (or will  not)  advise  strategy  or  get  any information  to  help  the  PCs.  As  a priest,  he  knows  very  little  about  the city  and  its  defenses,
Mira  Satra  owns  and  runs  one  of  the local  boarding  houses,  the  Blue  Roan.  It is  well  known  for  its  Cormyr-style  fare and  its  well-kept  stables.  The  Blue  Roan is  really  a  series  of  four  buildings  in  the center  of  the  cramped  city.  Mira  will not  run  from  the  enemy  or  enlist  in  the army.  He  would  prefer  not  to  hear about  war.  His  rates  are  high,  but  the Blue  Roan  has  feather  beds  and  no  ratsf
Mericrom,  Sturkoss  and  Benelcreth are  three  prominent  magic-users  of Hlath.  They  can  be  convinced  to  join  in defending  the  dty  by  a  serious  fellow magic-user,  or  they  can  be  bribed  into joining  the  fray.
39
The  Mission
It  will  take  the  PCs  three  days  on  horse¬ back  to  reach  the  enemy.  The  trip  will be  uneventful.  The  roads  are  filled  with people  and  domestic  animals  running from  the  on-coming  forces.  On  the third  day,  the  refugees  slowly  dwindle in  number  until  by  mid-morning  there is  no  one  in  sight.  At  noon  they  see  the Khan  s  army,  a  sprawling  force  num¬ bering  2,450  warriors  and  staves, including  weird  beasts  and  at  least  50 engines  of  war.
While  the  party  watches  the  army,  a bushi  in  full  battle  armor  will  approach the  PCs.  His  helmet  is  a  black-enameled demon  face.  He  will  call  to  the  PCs  in the  common  tongue,  but  with  a  strange accent,
"I  am  Szuma  Li,  bushido  warrior, and  I  am  honorable  and  learned  man.  A slave  teach  me  your  talk  for  this  land.  1 am  not  traitor  but  you  must  help  me stop  Khan!  You  must  take  me  to  your capital  and  let  me  tell  your  prince  how to  defeat  this  evil  thing.  1  have  followed the  mighty  Khan  for  four  years  because I  saw  him  strike  bargain  with  the  ogre magi,  and  I  saw  the  tamed  foo  beast that  he  rides  and  we  have  never  been defeated.,.  All  his  predictions  came true,  so  we  believe  he  is  chosen  one.,, until  night  before  last  I  come  with  mes¬ sage  to  tent  of  Khan,  and  enter  unan¬ nounced,  I  find  a  most  horrible jackal-faced  demon  there  who  changes back  into  Khan  KertepI  The  demon calls  for  my  death  by  beheading  and  my kinsmen  obey.  But  1  bribe  two  guards and  escape  into  unconquered  land,  and I  find  you.  It  is  my  duty  to  free  my brothers  from  this  demon  that  rides them  in  bondage.  Only  way  is  to  trick them,  and  I  know  how!"
If  someone  decides  to  attack,  Szuma does  not  attack  to  kill,  he  feints,  then strikes  to  disarm;  calling  on  the  PCs  to stop  fighting.  If  the  party  fights  and inflicts  more  than  15  points  of  damage, Szuma  uses  his  ki  power,  but  will  not attack  to  kill.  If  the  party  is  foolish enough  to  kill  Szuma,  they  will  lose  a valuable  ally.
If  the  PCs  decide  to  trust  Szuma,  they must  return  to  Hlath  with  his  volun¬ teered  information  and  sell  it  to  the  citi¬ zens.  Szuma  will  give  an  accurate timetable  of  events  and  will  describe  the exact  siege  formation  that  the  Khan  will employ  in  attacking  the  city.  He  will  tell the  party  that  the  Khan  has  predicted  a mighty  battle  at  a  city  on  an  inland  sea. Most  important,  Szuma  will  offer  this plan  of  attack;
"With  large  opponent,  it  is  best  to  use surprise.  The  Khan  like  siege  attack,  so he  surround  and  then  send  traditional delegation  to  offer  terms  of  surrender  at sunset.  If  no  surrender  by  dawn,  he attack,  but  is  routine  and  men  are  lax during  night  of  terms.  Every  town  falls same  way  How  do  we  defeat  the  Khan? First,  city  spokesman  must  say  "We  no fear  you  because  we  protected  by dragons!"  My  countrymen  fear  ancient wyxms  and  such  boast  is  sure  to  scare them.  We  tell  the  people  of  the  city  that the  Khan  cut  the  nose  off  all  slaves  and send  them  to  pull  the  war  machine.  This will  make  them  strong  like  metal,  ready to  fight.  We  collect  a  coin  from  all  in  the city  and  give,  in  secret,  to  the  generals of  the  attacking  army*  saying  "we  will only  fight  a  little,  so  we  are  not  called cowards,  then  we  surrender."  This  will make  them  sure  of  victory  in  their hearts  and  they  will  sleep  well.
"After  midnight,  we  gather  all  the bulls  and  dress  them  in  silks  and  paint them  as  dragons,  and  we  tie  a  torch soaked  in  oil  to  their  tails.  All  the  city's troops  must  dress  in  black  clothes  and gag  themselves  so  they  do  not  make  a noise,  while  all  those  who  don't  fight, the  old  and  young  must  get  noise makers  and  climb  silently  to  the  roof¬ tops  and  high  walls.  At  two  hours  past midnight  I  will  light  the  torches  and send  mad  bulls  into  sleeping  eastern army  and  I  shout  "dragon,  dragon!"  in my  peoples  talk.  This  is  the  time  for  the women  and  old  people  to  make  a  great noise,  a  wailing  and  banging  to  scare the  Khan's  army  and  confuse.  And  fol¬ lowing  the  bulls  come  our  warriors, silent  like  angel  of  death— it  will  disturb my  people,  1  know  this.  Then  we  send
our  cavalry  also  dressed  in  night.  They will  run.  all  but  the  bravest,  and  we  can overpower  those  few  to  kill  the  demon and  set  by  sworn  brothers  free.  Surprise will  give  us  what  we  lack  in  size.  It  is  the way  of  wisdom,  as  written  in  the  clouds for  me  alone  to  read.  All  other  paths  are lost!"
Szumai  s  plan  will  work,  up  to  a point  (see  The  Dragons  are  Coming!}.
The  Defense  of  Hlath
Szuma  predicts  3  weeks  until  the  Khan's legions  arrive  at  Hlath,  and  he's  only  off by  two  days,  so  the  PCs  have  time  to prepare  a  defense.
Hlath  has  five  ballistas  and  three heavy  catapults,  all  trained  on  the Vilhon  Reach.  It  will  take  40  men  one week  to  re-orient  the  weapons  toward the  land.
All  strategy  should  be  left  to  the  PCs. If  they  decide  to  stay  in  the  city  and wait-out  the  siege,  the  Khan  will  send ninja  into  the  dty  each  night  for  two weeks.  The  assassins  poison  water  and foodstuffs,  and  murder  soldiers  and civilians.  These  attacks  lower  the defenders'  morale  —  1  each  night.  If  any unit's  morale  reaches  zero,  Botpur  sur¬ renders  the  city.  If  Szuma  is  with  the PCs,  he  has  a  40%  chance  to  catch  these assassins  as  they  slip  over  the  walls  each night.
Ninja  (20):  AC  3;  Move  12";  N3  ;  hp  20 each;  £AT  1;  Dmg  ninja-to  +  tanto  + poison;  THAC0  18;  AL  NE
Ninja  Abilities:  HS  20%;  MS  27%; F/RT  30%;  CW  87%;  DI  28%;  OL 33  % ;  TW  30  % ;  PV  9.5’ ;  F 10';  ES  18  % ; BS  x2
Szuma  will  also  describe  the  initial deployment  of  the  Khan's  forces  and give  an  idea  of  the  skills  of  each  group, speaking  reverently  of  the  mystical  "ki" powers.  Szuma  will  persistently  argue against  any  attempt  to  weather  the siege,  and  will  reiterate  his  plan  to  any¬ one  who'll  listen.
The  Khan  Kertep  is  really  Yrkhetep the  arcanadaemon  using  his  shape-
40
changing  abilities  to  masquerade  as  a man  and  leading  the  oriental  army  into the  Forgotten  Realms.  He  rides  an enslaved  foo  lion  into  battle.  A  magical golden  harness  keeps  the  lion  from escaping  into  the  astral  or  ethereal planes.  An  iron  muzzle  keeps  it  from biting  or  roaring.  The  creature  can  turn invisible  at  will.  It  will  not  fight  for Yrkhetep.  If  released,  it  escapes  to  the astral  plane  and  returns  in  1-10  rounds with  1-4  more  foo  Lions  to  avenge  his slavery.
The  daemon  has  two  blue-skinned ogre  magi  as  body  guards,  and  they fight  with  heavy  naginatas  and  are always  at  the  Khan's  side.
The  Khan  has  fireworks  which  he detonates  during  battle,  causing  all opposing  forces  not  familiar  with  these noise-makers  to  lose  morale  (-1)  and discipline  (~1).  The  Daemons  prefer¬ red  strategy  is  the  siege,  where  his  mas¬ sive  force  surrounds  the  city  and  he  can bring  his  siege  engines  into  play.  In  an open  field  confrontation,  Khan  Kertep will  attempt  to  out-flank  his  opponents and  again  surround  them.
When  the  oriental  army  surrounds Hlath,  the  Khan  will  position  his  men  as follows;  The  Westwind  brigade  140 yars  (14M )  from  the  west  gate  of  Hlath, the  North  and  Southwind  the  same  dis¬ tance  from  the  south  gate  and  the Eastwind  the  same  distance  to  the  east of  the  eastern  gate.  Yrkhetep  will  be with  the  Eastwind  brigade.  The  war¬ riors  will  be  sporting  horrible  masks and  disgusting  trophies  on  long  poles  to demoralize  the  on-lookers  from  the walls.
The  Dragons  are  Coming!
If  the  PCs  follow  Szuma's  advice,  the surprise  attack  will  cause  all  barbarian troops  to  rout.  These  groups  have  a  ter¬ rible  superstitious  fear  of  dragons,  and prefer  to  run  first  and  question  later.  All other  non-elite  units'  morale  are  low¬ ered  by  -2  and  discipline  is  lowered until  Yrkhetep  or  one  of  his  deputy commanders  can  rally  it*  All  non- routed  units  wiU  be  surprised  for  ld20
rounds,  unable  to  move  or  attack  until attacked  or  rallied.  If  Yrkhetep  is  not neutralized,  he  will  circle  to  the  south and  rally  as  many  units  as  possible, then  charge  the  south  gate.  The Eastwind  unit,  initially  deployed  with Yrkhetep,  suffers  no  ill  effects  from  the surprise  attack.
Victory  Conditions
Hlath  receives  a  victory  if  the  oriental forces  are  destroyed  or  routed  from  the field.
The  Khan's  army  is  victorious  if  the city  is  overrun.
Order  of  Battle
Defenders  of  Hlath
The  Blood  Hawks  are  cavalry  armed with  long  swords  and  javelins.  They  are lead  by  Dak  Zaire:  ST  18/78;  IN  10; WS  10;  DX  14;  CN  15;  CH  14;  CM  15; AC  2;  Move  9" ;  F8;  hp  52;  # AT  3/2; Dmg  long  sword;  THACO  14;  AL  CG; Rank  Unit;  AR  29;  CR  16" ;  CB  0.
The  Riders  of  Kron  are  cavalry armed  with  long  swords.  They  are  lead by  Baron  Krondac:  ST  16;  IN  10;  WS 10;  CN  13;  DX  12;  CH  16;  CM  11;  AC 3;  Move  9";  F4;  hp  22;  #AT  1;  Dmg long  sword;  THACO  18;  AL  NG;  Rank Unit;  AR  35;  CR10";  CB  +2.
The  Hlath  Guards  are  regular  infan¬ try  armed  with  short  swords  and shields.  Their  commander  is  Naylor Wright  (CR  7").
The  Hlondethan  mercenaries  fight with  short  swords  and  shields.  Their commander  is  Armand  bois  Gilbert (CR  8”).
The  Kingfishers  are  local  fishermen, they  have  bows  and  daggers.  The Woodsmen  are  craftsmen  and  loggers, also  armed  with  bows  and  daggers. Both  of  these  local  infantry  units  were organized  by  Flam:  ST  17;  IN  13;  WS  9; CN  16;  DX  12;  CH  16;  CM  14;  AC  4; Move  9";  F6:  hp  43;  #AT  1;  Dmg  long sword  or  long  bow;  THACO  16;  AL NG;  Rank  Unit;  AR  31;  CR  11";  CB +1;  long  sword  +2.  Either  gets  a  +2 to  morale  if  he  is  in  command,  but  a  —5
if  he  falls  while  commanding.  Plam  has two  deputies:  Nestor  (CR  6"),  deputy commander  of  the  Kingfishers,  and Galan  (CR  7"  %  deputy  commander  of the  Woodsmen.
The  Volunteers  are  armed  with  short swords  and  shields.  They  are  a  mob unit,  but  three  weeks  of  training  will bring  them  to  regular  status.
The  Mighty  Khan's  Legions
The  Southwind  are  elite  2d  level  orien¬ tal  steppeland  barbarians  mounted  on light  horses  and  armed  with  horse  bows and  light  lances.  They  can  split-move. Their  commander  is  Ting-tok  (CR  5" )
The  Northwind  are  elite  3d  level  ori¬ ental  forest  barbarians  mounted  on light  war  horses  and  armed  with  battle axes.  Their  commander  is  Ning-wu  {CR 8").
The  Eastwind  are  elite  3d  level  bushi mounted  on  medium  horses  and  armed with  katanas.  They  can  use  their  ki power  once  per  day  to  raise  their  effec¬ tive  level  for  one  game  round.  During this  round  their  AR  improves  by  -2, and  each  figure  gains  20  hit  dice.  When the  temporary  hit  dice  disappear  on  the following  round,  any  wound  markers placed  the  previous  round  are removed.  Their  commander  is  Tocha Mura  (CR  9  " )
«
The  Khan's  Mighty  Army
The  Sword  Saints  are  3d  level  kensai armed  with  katanas.  They  can  use  their ki  power  to  cause  maximum  damage three  times  per  day.  The  controlling player  simply  announces  that  the power  is  being  used,  and  the  units attack  roll  is  automatically  assumed  to be  a  “2".  Their  commander  is  Sakagi Tabito  (CR  7")
The  Korobokuru  are  dwarven  2d level  oriental  jungle  barbarians.  They fight  with  battle  axes  and  get  +1  on saves  versus  magic.  Their  commander is  Chu-qua  (CR  10")
Westwind  #1  are  elite  2d  level  bushi infantry.  They  wear  individual  flags  on their  backs  with  solid  colors  denoting their  brigade  and  unit.  They  fight  with katanas  and  straw  shields.  They  have the  same  Id  powers  as  the  East  wind unit.  Their  commander  is  Tocha  Saigo (CR  8")
Westwind  #2  are  3d  level  oriental  for¬ est  barbarian  infantry,  armed  with spears.  Their  commander  is  Song-chen (CR  r
The  Slaves  pull  the  army's  siege machines,  supplies,  and  plunder.  The engines  of  war  include  15  massive  rams on  wheels  {Dmg  ld6  vs.  fortifications), 10  heavy  catapults  which  can  throw flaming  loads  ( +  ld6  fire  dmg},  20  tow¬ ers  on  wheels  to  scale  walls,  5  light  cata¬ pults,  and  20  ballistas.  Each  engine  is crewed  by  1st  level  bushi.
Hlath's  Heroes  and  Spell  Casters
Szuma  Li:  ST  17;  IN  13;  WS  15;  DX  15; CN  17;  CH  16;  CM  14;  AC  4;  Move  9"  ; BU8;  hp  68;  if  AT  3/2;  Dmg  katana, daikyu  or  karate;  THACG  14;  AL  LN; SA  feint ,  ki  power:  Rank  as  assigned; AR  29;  CR  12* ;  CB  +1.
Ulliam:  ST  11;  IN  13;  WS  17;  CN  10; DX  13;  CH  12;  CM  10;  AC  4;  Move  9" ; CLIO;  hp  42;  if  AT  1;  Dmg  staff; THAC0  14;  AL  CN;  Rank  as  assigned; AR  29;  CR  11" ;  CB  0,
5pells:/Iame  strike,  cure  critical wounds ,  sticks  to  snakes ,  cure  serious wounds .  protection  from  evil  10f  radi¬ us ,  cure  blindness ,  dispel  magic ,  feign
death,  prayer,  hold  person ,  resist  fire , chant,  slow  poison ,  spiritual  hammer {x2},  bless ,  command ,  cure  tight wounds ,  resist  cold ,  remove  fear ;  %hf
Mericomi  ST  9;  IN  17;  WS  13;  CN  9; DX  10;  CH  10;  CM  11;  AC  9;  Move 12" ;  MU  6;  hp  27;  #AT  1;  Dmg  none; THACO  19;  AL  CG;  ring  of  protection +  1
Spells:  shield ,  magic  missile  (x3), detect  invisibility,  stinking  cloud ,  fire¬ ball  fx2).
Sturkoss:  ST  8;  IN  18;  WS  12;  CN  11; DX  16;  CH  13;  CM  10;  AC  3;  Move 12" ;  MU8;  hp  38;  #AT  1;  Dmg  dagger; THACO  19;  AL  CG;  cloak  of  protection +2,  bracers  of  defense  AC  7 Spells:  shield ,  magic  missile  (x3), detect  invisibility,  stinking  cloud , strength,  fireball  (x2),  lightning  bolt , wall  of  fire ,  confusion
Benelcreth:  ST  6;  IN  18;  WS  15;  CN  10; DX  14;  CH  10;  CM  12;  AC  10;  Move 12" ;  MU6;  hp  28;  #AT  1;  Dmg  dagger; THACO  19;  AL  CG  ,
Spells:  shield ,  magic  missile  (x3), defect  imrisifei  Jify,  stinking  cloud ,  light¬ ning  bolt  (x2).
The  Khan's  Heroes  and  Spell  Casters
Khan  Kertep  (Arcanadaemon):  AC  “ 2;  Move  12"  /IS" ;  HD  13  +  39;  hp  104; #AT  4;  Dmg  1-4/1-4/2-16/1-6;  THACO 8;  AL  NE;  Rank  Army;  AR  13;  CR  16" ; CB  0;  SA/SD  See  MM1  page  28,
Spells:  detect  magic ,  charm  person , magic  missile  (x3),  invisibility,  weak¬ ness,  dispel  magic,  clairvoyance  (x2), ice  storm  (x3),  minor  globe  of  invulner¬ ability,  dimension  door,  disintegration (x2),  power  word  blind,  maze,  meteor swarm
Ogre  Magi  (4):  AC  4;  Move  9"/15"; HD  5  +  2;  hp  32  each;  #AT  1;  Dmg  1*12; THACO  15;  AL  LE;  Rank  Deputy Army;  AR  30;  CR  6";  CB0,
Ho  Lam  ST  10;  IN  16;  WS  13;  CN  8;  DX 10;  CH  15;  CM  14;  AC  10;  Move  12"; MU7;  hp  19;  ffAl  1;  Dmg  none; THACO  19;  AL  LN Spells:  accuracy ;  magic  missile f shield,  wall  of  fog ,  whip,  woodshape , protect  from  normal  missiles ,  dancing blade
Chirath:  ST  9;  IN  17;  WS  15;  CN  12; DX  13;  CH  13;  CM  15;  AC  10;  Move 12" ;  MU5;  hp  16;  # AT  1;  Dmg  dagger; THACO  20;  AL  NE Spells:  confusion ,  melt  metal ,  fire , rain ,  fire  wings,  fire  shuriken,  blind, pyrotechnics ,  wizard  lock,  magic  mis¬ siles ,  knoia  history,  fiery  eyes ,  melt, spider  climb
Mazrahn:  ST  11;  IN  18;  WS  12;  CN  13; DX  14;  CH  13;  CM  13;  AC  4;  Move 12" ;  MU5  ;  hp  17;  HAT  1;  Dmg  dagger; THACO  20;  AL  CE;  Rank  Deputy Army;  AR  ;  CR  9";  CB  0 Spells:  hypnotism ,  cloud  ladder,  ele¬ mental  burst,  wall  of  fog ,  secret  signs , fog  cloud ,  smoke  shape,  stinking  cloud, wind  breath t  omen ,  dispel  magic,  face , shout ,  emotion
Nag  the  Mysterious:  ST  13;  IN  18;  WS 13;  CN  11;  DX  14;  CH  15;  CM  16;  AC 2;  Move  12" ;  MU9;  hp  25;  #AT  1;  Dmg none;  THACO  18;  AL  LE;  Rank  Deputy Army;  AR  33;  CR  12";  CB  +1 Spells:  accuracy ,  hail  of  stone,  ghost light ,  magic  missile,  wizard  mark ,  mes¬ sage,  locate  object ,  invisibility,  blind, rope  trick,  disguise t  magnetism,  power- word  stun,  statue ,  dimetision  door r confusion ,  metal  skin ,  wall  of  iron , metal  to  rust ,  warp  stone
42
Defenders  of  Hlath
Unit  Name
Type
Lvl
AC
HD/FIG
MV
AR
ML
DL
#FIG
Dmg
Blood  Hawks
Cav
F5
2
25
15"
21
9
10
20
Id8/ld8/ld8/id3
Riders  of  Kron
Cav
F3
4
30
15"
18
10
11
10
Id8/ld8/ld8/ld3
Hlath  Guard
Inf
F3
4
30
9"
18
10
11
10
ld6
Mercenaries
Inf
F4
5
40
9"
16
11
12
10
ld6
Kingfishers
Inf
FI
7
10
9"
20
11
12
15
ld6
Woodsmen
Inf
FI
8
10
9"
20
11
12
20
ld8
Volunteers
Inf
Fl
9
10
9"
20
12
13
20
ld6
The  Mighty  Khan's  Legions
Unit  Name
Type
Lvl
AC
HD/FIG
MV
AR
ML
DL
#FIG
Dmg
Southwind(x2)
Cav
F2
5
20
15"
20
10
11
10
Id6/ld8/ld8/ld3
Northwind(x2)
Cav
F3
4
3
15"
18
10
11
10
Id8/ld8/ld8/ld3
Eastwind
Cav
F4
3
40
15"
18
9
10
10
Idl0/ld8/ld8/ld3
Swordsaints
Inf
F3
5
30
9"
18
8
8
10
ldlO
Korobokuru
Inf
F2
5
2
9"  -*
20
9
10
15
ld8
West  wind  l(x2)
Inf
F2
6
2
9"
20
10
11
20
ldlO
Westwind  2
Inf
F3
5
3
9"
18
9
9
20
ld6
Slaves
Inf
0
10
15
9"
N/A
20
18
100
N/A
The  Opening  Scene
The  south  wind  promised  spring,  but the  ice  in  the  shadows  told  of  winter's remaining  strength.  The  season  of flowers  was  late  in  Golconda's  hills,  but for  once  there  were  few  who  wished  for the  return  of  spring's  warmth.  Spring this  year  meant  red  war.  The  prospects for  this  war  cast  fear  into  the  hearts  of King  Samakay  and  his  council.  This past  season  the  foe  continued  the  war that  had  raged  across  the  southern Turmish  hills  for  the  past  three  years. The  self-styled  King  of  Muktar  had  pur¬ sued  his  dream  of  empire  with  demonic obsession.  Golconda  had  no  quarrel with  anything  that  could  end  the  centu¬ ries  of  petty  wars  that  had  plagued Turmish,  but  forced  membership  in Muktar's  empire  seemed  too  high  a price  to  pay.  And  so  the  king  and  coun¬ cil  met  in  grim  conclave.
Joining  the  council  were  the  heroes  of this  past  year's  campaign,  a  group  of adventurers  who  had  sought  revenge upon  Muktar's  King  Hetep.  This  had been  provoked  by  the  permanent destruction  of  several  of  their  compan¬ ions  by  Hetep.  Though  not  from Golconda,  they  had  won  a  place  in  the council  by  their  valiant  deeds.
For  weary  hours  the  council  had searched  for  some  means  of  negating the  foe's  numerical  advantage,  but answers  were  as  scarce  as  hope.  Even the  stalwart  adventurers  revealed  their doubts  about  their  ability  to  stop  the enemy  army.  They  swore  that  before the  foe  breached  Golconda's  red  sand¬ stone  battlements  he  would  pay  dearly in  blood.
This  brave  vow  brought  scant  conso¬ lation,  and  the  council  was  debating  the merits  of  the  same  unworkable  plans for  the  seventh  time.  The  arguments were  frequent,  and  at  several  points King  Samakay  the  Wry  was  forced  to speak  sharply  to  stop  duels.  The  pres¬ sure  of  trying  to  solve  the  unsolvable was  making  tempers  short  and  sharp. Then,  the  chamber's  ebony  doors  flew open .  In  rushed  the  gray-robed  chief  of spies.  Without  regard  to  rigid  court
protocol,  he  shouted,  "Golconda  is saved!"
There  were  several  raised  eyebrows and  a  harumph  at  this  breach  of  eti¬ quette.  The  king  said,  "You  have  our permission  to  address  the  throne, Boubakar."
That  man,  realizing  his  error,  fell  to his  knees  and  said,  "Forgive  me,  sire, these  times  have  driven  all  from  my mind.  And  the  news  that  has  just  now reached  my  ears  is  so  wonderful  that joy  made  me  forget  protocol."
The  king  nodded,  then  replied,  "You are  forgiven,  but  we  entreat  you  to share  this  joy  with  us,  for  in  sooth  good tidings  have  been  as  scarce  as  hens' teeth  these  past  three  years."
"Oh,  sire,  one  of  my  agents  has returned  in  this  hour  from  Muktar.  He killed  four  horses  in  the  passes  to  bring us  the  seeds  of  victory.  He  has  discov¬ ered  the  location  of  Hetep's  battle  plans for  the  coming  campaign.  If  we  had these  in  our  hands  we  could  use  that knowledge  to  nullify  their  numbers," Boubakar  answered  breathlessly.
Surly  old  Count  Belim  spat  out, "And  why  didn't  your  sneak  fetch  out the  plans  instead  of  slaying  innocent steeds?"
The  chief  of  spies  tartly  replied,  "The plans  are  defended  by  one  hundred ogres  and  the  champions  of  Muktar."
Belim  muttered  soffo  voce,  "Never heard  of  a  spy  with  courage."
He  might  have  said  more,  but  the king  said,  "Silence,  Belim,  it  takes  great nerve  to  enter  the  foes'  camp.  So  cease your  slights,  for  Boubakar  and  his  spies serve  even  as  the  stoutest  fighter."
Then,  Saamakay  turned  back  to  the spy  and  inquired,  "Why  are  these  plans so  important?  Belike  Muktar  could change  them  as  1  might  change  my plans  not  to  hunt  when  a  sudden  rain arises."
Boubakar  sighed.  The  king,  though just  and  kind,  had  never  in  the  fifty years  of  his  reign  shown  even  the  faint¬ est  glimmering  of  comprehension  about military  matters.  Lord  Daud  had  served as  military  advisor  to  Golconda  for nearly  a  century,  but  he  was  one  of  the
many  casualties  of  this  past  season's fighting.  Since  his  death  Samakay  had trusted  no  other  to  decide  these  mat¬ ters,  except  himself.  It  wasn't  that  he would  not  listen  to  expert  opinion  but rather  that  each  principle  of  military science  must  be  explained  from  the  low¬ est  level  upward  to  make  each  salient point.  It  was  quite  taxing  at  best.  And, so,  like  a  weary  teacher  speaking  to  a rich  but  obtuse  student,  Boubakar explained,  "Sire,  an  army  on  the  march requires  much  in  the  way  of  provender, which  must  be  in  position.  The  move¬ ment  of  troops  requires  orders,  or  else they  will  not  be  where  their  commander desires  when  he  desires  them  to  be there.  The  orders  sent  to  each  force must  be  sent  in  good  time  so  that  the commander  can  in  turn  dispatch  his subordinates.  At  this  time  Muktar's arm  has  received  their  marching  orders, and  any  change  in  plans  would  cause great  confusion.
"Furthermore,  if  we  could  seize  these plans  unbeknownst  to  the  foe  we  would be  able  to  strike  at  the  weakest  links  in the  chain.  And  should  Muktar  realize the  loss,  he  would  perforce  change  his plans,  granting  us  time  to  seek  allies,  or he  would  retain  his  original  plans  for expediency's  sake,  leaving  us  the stronger.  In  both  events  we  would  ben¬ efit,  and  he  would  suffer."
The  king  stated,  "Seems  to  be  rather a  lot  of  bother,  this  army  business.  But you've  made  your  point,  Boubakar."
At  this  point  debate  erupted  anew. One  council  member  wanted  to  march with  the  entire  army  to  the  fort  that held  the  plans.  He  was  reminded  of  the mud  and  snow  that  slowed  travel. Another  council  member  thought  that sending  an  arsonist  to  bum  the  fort would  be  the  ticket,  but  it  was  pointed out  that  this  would  simply  destroy  the plans  to  no  benefit  to  Golconda.  At  last somebody  suggested  that  a  raid  by  a small,  but  powerful,  group  would  be the  efficacious  tactic.  All  eyes  turned toward  the  adventurers.
Samakay  said,  "We  need  heroes  in this  time  of  greatest  need.  It  is  true  that you  are  not  of  Golconda,  but  we
44
entreat  you  to  strike  us  this  blow against  your  foe  and  ours,  Hetep."
Before  any  could  say  yea  or  nay. Count  Belim  leapt  to  his  feet,  shouting, "'Tis  rankest  folly  to  send  our  strongest and  most  potent  force  into  the  maw  of death.  These  folk  should  be  held  in reserve."
Samakay  ignored  him,  and  repeated his  question.  Count  Belim  stormed  out of  the  room,  nearly  unhinging  the  ebo¬ ny  portals  in  his  fury,  while  Boubakar stifled  a  grin.
If  the  PCs  refuse  this  mission,  then accusations  of  cowardice  and  treason will  fly.  The  king  will  turn  against them,  and  they'll  be  imprisoned  or worse.  In  character,  they  should  jump at  the  chance  to  strike  a  blow,  but  if they  are  hesitant,  the  king  could  offer them  titles  and  land  as  an  inducement.
Once  the  party  has  accepted  the  mis¬ sion,  the  urgent  need  for  haste  should be  stressed.  To  simulate  the  urgency,  the DM  should  sharply  restrict  the  time given  players  to  make  any  preparations or  hold  discussions.
The  Briefing
Shortly  after  the  council  meeting adjourns,  the  PCs  are  gathered  in Boubakar's  study.  This  room  is  clut¬ tered  with  papers,  books,  maps,  and  a variety  of  paraphernalia  suited  for thieves.  Boubakar,  a  slight,  very intense  male  of  half-elven  descent, gives  the  party  the  information  detailed below:
Fort  Blood  is  a  square,  palisaded  log fort  perched  atop  a  steep  hill  about  six days'  ride  south  of  Golconda.  The  fort is  approximately  two  hundred  feet  on  a side.  The  walls,  made  of  pointed  logs, are  ten  feet  tall,  with  catwalks  for guards  at  the  top.  At  each  comer  a crude,  wooden  tower  rises  twenty  feet above  the  walls.  The  centers  of  the northern  and  southern  walls  are  pierced by  rough  gates.  More  or  less  in  the  mid¬ dle  of  the  fort  is  a  square  central  tower. The  walls  are  60'  long,  and  the  tower  is 40'  tall.  The  ground  floor  is  the  bar¬ racks  for  the  fort's  garrison  of  100
ogres.  An  armory  occupies  the  entire second  floor.  The  third  floor  contains quarters  for  the  champions  of  Muktar. There  is  a  guardpost  on  the  roof.  The floors  are  connected  by  stairs.  The  spy said  that  among  the  champions  there were  two  powerful  fighters,  a  potent cleric,  and  some  type  of  a  spell  caster. He  heard  about,  but  did  not  see,  two giants  that  are  based  at  the  fort.
This  is  all  of  the  information  availa¬ ble  to  the  party  unless  they  use  spells  or magical  items.  If  they  do  so,  then  more specific  data  is  available  below.
DM's  Information
A  deep  plot  is  afoot  in  this  adventure. The  king  of  Muktar  is  actually  Lord Yrkhetep.  He  wants  to  destroy  or  cap¬ ture  the  adventurers,  and  to  further  this aim  he  has  devised  a  plan.  Lord  Yrkhe¬ tep  has  captured  the  Golcondan  spy, and  he  has  used  psionic  hypnosis  to convince  the  spy  that  he  had  been  able to  penetrate  Fort  Blood  and  learn  of  the battle  plans.  In  reality,  Yrkhetep  has  no need  for  written  plans.  The  whole  ploy is  a  trap.  There  are  documents  in  Fort Blood,  but  they  are  bogus.  Even  if  the adventurers  are  able  to  get  the  plans  it will  not  aid  Golconda — the  plans  will actually  lead  them  astray.
Furthermore,  the  party  is  being  care¬ fully  observed  at  frequent  intervals, and  the  garrison  of  Fort  Blood  will  be ready  for  the  raid.
Treachery  or  Noble  Action?
During  the  party's  journey  to  Fort Blood  there  will  be  no  random  encount¬ ers,  although  the  DM  may  wish  to  pre¬ tend  to  roll  or  add  some  minor  event. During  the  third  night  of  the  trip,  how¬ ever,  Count  Belim  and  a  few  of  retain¬ ers  attack  the  party.
Crusty  old  Count  Belim  truly  meant what  he  said  during  the  council  meet¬ ing,  and  being  obstinate  and  head¬ strong  he  has  decided  that  for  the  good of  Golconda  he  must  forcibly  stop  the PCs  from  riding  into  what  he  sees  as certain  death.  He  has  developed  a
plan — his  forces  will  attack  when  the weakest  characters  are  on  watch.  (He  is quite  familiar  with  the  capacities  of each  character,  and  he  has  a  general idea  of  what  magic  items  they  possess.) The  cleric  in  his  party  will  cast  hold  per¬ son  on  any  characters  who  are  awake. If  successful,  Belim  and  his  men  will gain  automatic  surprise.  They  attack, attempting  to  subdue  and  bind  the sleeping  characters.  Should  the  charac¬ ters  resist,  an  all-out  fight  will  ensue. The  attackers  will  attempt  to  pummel or  overbear  the  characters  into  submis¬ sion.
Count  Belim:  ST  IS;  IN  10;  WS  9;  DX 16;  CN  14;  CH  15;  CM  15;  AC  -1; Move  6";  F8;  hp  64;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg long  sword;  THAC0  14;  AL  CG;  long sword  +2,  ring  of  protection  +3,  field plate  armor.
His  ten  men  at  arms  have  the  following identical  attributes:  AC  2;  Move  6" ;  F5; hp  38;  #AT  1;  Dmg  long  sword;  AL  CN; THAC0  16.
Cleric:  ST  13;  IN  10;  WS  12;  DX  16;  CN 11;  CH  13;  CM  11;  AC  2;  Move  6"; CL5;  hp  20;  #AT  1,  Dmg  footman's mace;  THAC0  18;  AL  CG
Spells:  sanctuary,  cure  light  wounds, command,  hold  person  (x3),  prayer
Count  Belim  has  his  men  at  arms  to do  his  dirty  work.  He  will  remain  in  the background  with  his  cleric  during  the fight.  If  more  than  one  of  his  men  are slain  or  rendered  unconscious,  he  will call  out  to  the  party.  He  will  surrender his  arms,  but  he  will  display  his  usual arrogance.  If  the  party  questions  him, he  will  be  quite  frank  about  his motives.  The  count  bears  the  party  no ill  will  at  the  moment,  and  in  fact  he respects  them  highly.  Play  up  his  air  of pompous  condescension,  though.
If  Belim  wins,  the  party  awakes  with weapons  held  to  their  throats.  They will  be  taken  to  Belim's  castle,  and placed  under  heavy  guard  in  moder¬ ately  comfortable  rooms.  They  will, however,  be  stripped  of  their  posses-
45
sions*  Spell  casters  will  be  bound  and gagged,  while  other  characters  simply will  be  bound.  Each  character  will  be  in a  private  room.
Very  soon,  however,  they  will  have  a visitor,  Bassana,  the  agent  hypnotized by  Yrkhetep.  He  will  tell  the  party  that he  overheard  Belim's  plan  the  day  that the  count  stormed  out  of  the  meeting. Also,  he  says  that  he  is  totally  loyal  to the  king,  and  has  come  to  liberate  the adventurers*  In  fact,  Yrkhetep  is  still manipulating  him.  Yrkhetep  wants  the party  freed  so  that  he  can  have  his  fun with  them.  Bassana  drugs  the  party's guards  and  frees  the  PCs.  He  leads  the party  out  of  the  castle  via  an  appropri¬ ately  musty  secret  tunnel.  Bassana  has recovered  all  of  the  PCs'  possessions  as well.  The  PCs  are  now  able  to  continue on  thesr  Interrupted  journey*  There  will be  no  further  encounters  until  they reach  their  destination*
Raid  on  Fort  Blood
As  the  party  arrives  in  the  vicinity  of the  hostile  fort,  a  cold  north  wind begins  to  blow*  There  is  the  smell  of snow  in  the  air.  A  snowstorm  has  begun by  the  time  they  have  found  a  secure place  for  their  mounts  and  completed any  final  preparations*  In  a  matter  of minutes  the  weather  has  deteriorated into  a  howling  blizzard*  Visibility  is reduced  to  about  twenty  yards,  and  the temperature  has  fallen  to  below  freez^ ing,  This  presents  them  with  a  fine opportunity  to  reach  the  fort  under  the cover  of  the  storm.  The  storm  will  con* tinue  to  rage  until  the  party  has  entered the  tower.
Despite  the  storm,  those  inside  the fort  have  been  well-briefed  and  are ready  for  anything.  Muk  tar's  champi- ons  have  a  clear  plan  which  they  have spent  a  great  deal  of  time  preparing*
Their  plan  is  as  follows:  Yrkhetep  has cast  moss  invisibility  upon  30  of  the ogres.  These  ogres  wait  inside  the  walls of  Fort  Blood.  They  don't  realize  it,  but their  job  is  to  force  the  party  to  use spells  and  reveal  some  of  their  magic* The  ogres  aren't  expected  to  cause  very
much  damage*  The  two  cloud  giants* who  are  also  invisible,  attack  at  this time  as  well,  but  their  duty  is  to  take out  spell  casters,  especially  clerics*
During  this  melee  the  champions make  preparations  for  the  next  phase  of the  battle.  The  illusionist,  Lana,  has cast  the  following  spells  upon  herself: mirror  image,  improved  invisibility, true  sight,  and  misdirection.  She  has also  cast  improved  invisibility  on  Basil, and  invisibility  upon  the  two  fighters, Hank  and  Lazio.  The  cleric,  Kalia,  has cast  sanctuary,  protection  from  good 10 1  radius ,  true  seeing ,  and  prayer.  The five  heroes  wait  inside  the  tower  on  the ground  floor,  since  they  know  that  fly¬ ing  or  climbing  to  the  top  of  the  tower  is impossible  during  the  storm.  Their  plan is  quite  simple— blast  the  party  after they  enter  the  room.  The  assassin*  Bas¬ il,  will  attempt  to  slay  any  magic  users first*  Lana  Mara  will  hit  the  party  with a  prismatic  spray ,  while  the  fighters will  defend  the  two  spell  casters.  After his  attack,  Basil  will  retreat  upstairs  to prepare  a  contingency  ambush  on  the second  floor.
Hank  the  Double-Bitted:  ST  18/54; IN  12;  WS  9;  DX  13;  CN 13;  CH  16;  CM 17;  AC  -1;  Move  12";  F15;  hp  103;
AT  2;  Dmg  battle  axe;  THACO  5;  AL LE;  Rank  Army;  AR  16;  CR  15 Wr;  CB + 1;  chain  mail  +3,  shield  +2,  and  bat¬ tle  axe  +2.
Hank  is  a  veteran  of  the  bloody  cam¬ paigns  of  the  Turmish.  He  favors  axes, hence  his  name.  Rumor  has  it  that  he once  killed  a  black  dragon  all  by  him¬ self  His  helm  is  decorated  with  black scales*
Lazio  Lunk:  ST  17;  IN  9;  WS  8;  DX 12;  CN  15;  CH  13;  CM  14;  AC  0;  Move 9";  F10;  hp  88;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg  long sword;  THACO  12;  AL  CE;  Rank  Dep¬ uty  Army;  AR  24;  CR  11 V**;  CB  0; plate  mail  +2,  long  sword,  +2  cursed berserking ,
Lazio  won  his  cursed  sword  in  a  game of  chance*  He  kept  it  since  it  suits  his personality — Nordic  and  battle  crazy* His  companions  give  him  a  wide  berth in  combat.
Basil  Amess;  ST  14;  IN  14;  WS  7;  DX 18;  CN  14;  CH  12;  CM  10;  AC  3;  Move 12";  All;  hp  56;  #AT  1;  Dmg  short sword  +  poison;  THACO  16;  AL  NE; Rank  Deputy  Brigade;  AR  29;  CR UV2";  CB  0;  leather  +2,  short  sword +  2  with  deadly  poison.
Basil  likes  to  become  "friends"  with his  victims  before  he  kills  them  with  a swift  backstab.  He  claims  this  makes the  kill  more  poignant.  In  this  encount¬ er,  however,  poignancy  has  to  give  way to  practicality*
Kalia:  ST  10;  IN  10;  WS  18;  DX  12; CN  13;  CH  17;  CM  15;  AC  “2;  Move 9" ;  CL15;  hp  79;  # AT  1;  Dmg  footman's mace;  THACO  12;  AL  ME;  Rank  Bri¬ gade;  AR  25;  CR  16";  CB  +2;  plate mail  +2,  shield  +2.  mace  +2*
Spells:  detect  good ,  protection  from good ,  cure  light  wounds  (x4)r  cause light  wounds  (x3),  silence  15*  radius (x3),  hold  person  (x3),  resist  fire ,  detect charm ,  know  alignment r  cause  blind¬ ness  (x2)f  cure  critical  wounds,  raise dead ,  heal  word  of  recall
Kalia  is  a  high  priestess  of  Myrkul, God  of  Death.  The  last  thing  many innocent  beings  have  seen  is  the  lovely Kalia  in  her  black  robes  bearing  a finely-embroidered  skull*
Lana  Mara:  ST  9;  IN  18;  WS  11;  DX  IS; CN  16;  CH  15;  CM  15;  AC  3;  Move 12";  115;  hp  50;  If  AT  1;  Dmg  dagger; THACO  16;  AL  NE;  Rank  Deputy Army;  AR  31;  CR  15" ;  CB  +1;  cloak  of protection  +3,  ring  of  feather  falling, ring  of  spelt  storing  (3  fly  spells  cast  at 12th  level),  wand  of  fire  19  chgs)* Spells:  color  spray  (x2),  darkness * detect  invisibility ,  detect  magic,  rope trick,  fear  (x2),  continual  light *  shadow mottsters ,  dispel  exhaustion ,  shadow magic  (x2),  shades ,  prismatic  spray  (x2)
46
Lana  is  a  petite,  red-headed  power¬ house.  She  was  the  last,  and  perhaps the  greatest,  apprentice  of  the  famed illusionist,  Yhelva  the  Wicked.
Muktar's  Champions  will  retire  to the  next  floor  if  the  PCs  are  winning.  If the  PCs  follow  and  continue  to  win, Kalia  will  use  her  word  of  recall  to  retire to  a  nearby  chapel,  and  Lana  will  fly there  using  her  ring.  The  fighters  and the  assassin  are  expected  to  cover  the retreat.  The  fighters  fight  to  the  death, and  the  assassin  will  attempt  to  escape to  the  roof  where  10  more  ogres  are waiting.
Any  PCs  who  are  captured  will  be imprisoned  and  stripped  of  all  posses¬ sions,  but  not  harmed  (for  the moment).  Lord  Yrkhetep,  in  human form,  will  attempt  to  recruit  any  pris¬ oners.  Should  any  try  to  swear  fealty  to him,  Kalia  will  cast  detect  lie  to  deter¬ mine  their  intentions.  If  they  refuse, they  will  be  killed.
If  the  party  wins  the  second  encount¬ er,  they  will  be  able  to  search  the  tower. Nothing  will  happen  until  they  reach the  third  floor.
The  third  floor  contains  the  champi¬ ons'  bed  chambers  and  a  meeting  room, with  Lord  Yrkhetep  waiting  inside  for the  party.  He  has  made  some  prepara¬ tions  to  welcome  the  adventurers  to  his tower.  He  has  cast  invisibility,  protec¬ tion  from  good  10’  radius,  protection from  normal  missiles ,  globe  of  invul¬ nerability,  and  mirror  image ,
When  the  party  enters,  Yrkhetep  will be  flying  near  the  ceiling,  ready  to deliver  a  psionic  blast  at  short  range. Afterwards,  he  uses  his  spells  to  wreak as  much  havoc  as  possible.  If  he  is  any danger,  however,  he  will  teleport  to safety.  Yrkhetep  sees  this  encounter  as  a "friendly"  test  of  strength,  he  has  no desire  to  fight  to  the  end.  Also,  he  has  a back-up  plan— the  bogus  plans.
Yrkhetep  has  taken  the  form  of  a stately,  black  man  for  his  physical  man¬ ifestation  as  the  King  of  Muktar.  His voice  is  cultured,  and  he  acts  as  if  he  is weary  of  life  on  this  plane.  He  has  mem¬ orized  the  following  spells:  detect  mag¬ ic,  charm  person,  magic  missile  (x3).
invisibility,  weakness,  dispel  magic, clairvoyance  (x2),  ice  storm  (x3),  minor globe  of  invulnerability,  dimension door,  disintegration  (x2),  power  word, blind,  maze,  meteor  swarm
Before  Yrkhetep  retreats,  he  will  say, "By  the  beard  of  my  father,  I  should have  burnt  the  pi..."  then  teleport  to safety.
After  searching  the  party  will  find  a small  chest  bound  with  brass.  It  is locked  and  trapped.  When  the  chest  is opened,  an  iron  flask  containing  a  styx devil  is  uncorked.  The  devil  has  been imprisoned  for  a  thousand  years,  and  it is  very  angry  when  released.  The  trap  is nearly  impossible  to  locate  and  disarm (  -40%  to  find/remove  traps  rolls).
Once  the  party  has  dealt  with  this surprise  they  will  find  the  plans  in  the chest.  They  detail  Muktar's  plans  to  use a  cauldron  that  transforms  water  into potions  of  flying  to  turn  his  entire  army into  air  mobile  units.  (The  cauldron does  not  exist).  The  flying  army  will attack  the  Golcondan  forces  at  Wilna Pass,  where  the  Muktaran  army  will use  vertical  envelopment,  and  crush their  opponents.
Twenty  ogres  will  follow  the  party when  they  leave  Fort  Blood,  attacking when  the  party  camps  during  the  night. This  is  calculated  to  lend  verisimilitude to  the  phony  plans.
Sometime  before  the  party  reaches Golconda  they  will  run  into  an  old man.  This  human  calls  himself  the  Sage of  the  Hills.  He  claims  that  he  has  great powers  and  greater  knowledge.  If  asked to  demonstrate  his  powers,  he  will. This  is  Anthraxus.  He  will  use  his  psio¬ nic  power  of  molecular  arrangement  to turn  lead  into  platinum,
Anthraxus  asks  the  party  about  the documents  they  are  carrying,  and  pre¬ tends  to  be  amused  by  their  answer (whatever  it  is).  He  will  tell  them  that the  plans  are  false.  He  explains  that Muktar  has  found  the  lost  tunnel  of Phraz,  first  King  of  Golconda  .  This  was dug  to  skirt  Wilna  Pass,  and  allow  the king  to  avoid  following  the  bed  of  the meandering  Niola  River.  (Phraz  was
noted  for  his  patience.)  For  many  dec¬ ades  the  tunnel  has  been  abandoned, and  few  have  ever  heard  of  it.  How¬ ever,  the  Sage  of  the  Hills  claims  that  it is  documented  in  the  Golcondan  royal archives.  Muktar  plans  to  make  the expected  frontal  assault  upon  the  pass to  pin  the  Golcondan  army.  While  the army  is  pinned,  large  elements  of  the Muktaran  host  will  strike  the  Golcon¬ dan  rear  about  a  half  hour  after  battle  is joined.
Anthraxus  will  be  persuasive  and friendly,  even  going  so  far  as  to  grant  a wish  for  the  PCs.  Should  the  party doubt  him  or  make  any  hostile  actions he  will  disappear  instantly.
Surprising  Allies
After  the  meeting  with  the  Sage  of  the Hills,  the  party  proceeds  toward Golconda.  Late  in  the  next  afternoon they  behold  an  awesome  sight — 10 wyvems  mobbing  a  small  gold  dragon. The  wyvems  have  the  dragon  trapped in  a  copse  of  trees  too  dense  to  allow flight.  When  the  dragon  spots  the  party he  calls  for  help.  It  speaks  Common, although  with  a  lisp.
The  copse  is  roughly  250  feet  in  diam¬ eter.  The  terrain  around  it  is  rocky  with many  gullies.  Half  the  wyvems  are  on the  ground  chasing  the  dragon,  the  oth¬ er  half  are  flying  above  the  trees.  All  the wyvems  are  aware  of  the  party,  but  will ignore  them  unless  they  approach  the trees.  (Wyvems  and  dragons  have  a deep  animosity,  and  these  wyvems would  rather  kill  a  dragon,  especially  a good  one,  than  attack  any  number  of more  succulent  humans.)
The  dragon,  a  sub-adult  male  named Frizzerfraz,  will  assist  the  party  if  they attack  the  wyvems.  Otherwise,  he  will curse  them  for  cowardice.  If  the  party ignores  Frizzerfraz's  predicament  they can  proceed  to  Golconda  without  fur¬ ther  incident.
Frizzerfraz  is  a  teenager  in  dragon terms.  He  got  himself  into  the  predica¬ ment  by  chasing  a  large  stag  into  the woods.  He  had  already  frittered  away his  spells  doing  trivial  things.  He  is
47
holding  back  his  breath  weapons  in  fear of  wasting  those,  too.  He  is  very  fright¬ ened,  and  wishes  his  parents  were  here. However,  he  wiU  try  to  use  his  breath weapon  on  the  wyvems  if  he  can  use  it without  endangering  the  PCs.
The  wyvems  will  attack  in  a  disci¬ plined,  cohesive  fashion.  Yrkhetep  has charmed  them,  and  given  them  some training.  They  will  fight  to  the  death.
At  the  first  opportunity  the  young dragon  will  escape  to  the  air,  shouting, "Hang  on.  I'll  go  get  my  folks  "  He  will return  in  five  rounds  with  his  parents, Wizzerrazz  and  Izzerazz,
The  older  dragons  have  the  following spells  memorized:  protection  from  evil , magic  missile,  invisibility,  mirror image ,  protection  from  normal  mis¬ siles ,  haste ,  dig,  hallucinatory  terrain
The  two  adults  will  cast  haste  on themselves,  then  attack  furiously.
When  the  wyvems  are  defeated,  the dragons  will  introduce  themselves. After  the  pleasantries,  Wizzerazz  will say,  "Muktar  has  mobilized  by  some magical  means  many  more  of  these  fell beasts/'  pointing  a  talon  at  the  nearest wyvem  corpse.
The  dragons  are  grateful  for  the  par¬ ty's  assistance,  and  eager  to  slay  more wyvems.  They  ted  the  PCs  they  will meet  them  at  Golconda  three  days hence.
As  the  party  finishes  their  journey, spring  will  be  erupting  vigorously. Flowers,  trees  and  shrubs  are  starting  to bloom.  In  another  time  it  would  be  a sight  to  bring  smiles  to  the  grimmest  of campaigners,  but  many  will  die  amidst this  beauty.
Preparations  for  Battle
Under  normal  circumstances  the  return to  Golconda  would  be  triumphant,  but the  party  is  greeted  solemnly.  In  their absence  the  king  has  died  the  final  death and  passed  beyond  the  ability  of  the most  powerful  cleric  to  call  him  back. Since  he  died  without  issue  and  was  the last  of  his  line,  the  throne  is  vacant.  The sages  have  traced  back  the  generations
in  search  of  an  heir.  Unfortunately,  they have  found  two  candidates  with  equal¬ ly  good,  albeit  feeble,  claims  to  the throne.  One  is  the  poor  Baron  Asakia and  the  other  is  Count  Belim.  Neither had  been  aware  of  their  connection  to the  royal  family,  since  it  occurred  four hundred  years  ago.  At  once,  Belim began  campaigning  vigorously.  Baron Asakia  would  have  waived  his  rights, but  in  his  long  life  Belim  had  stepped  on many  toes,  and  his  enemies  banded together  to  back  Asakia.  Under  the most  ancient  of  laws,  a  gathering  of  all noble  heads  of  household  must  meet  to elect  a  new  king.
Those  laws  state  that  a  majority  of three-quarters  is  required  to  elect  a king.  This  is  beyond  the  capacity  of either  side.  Furthermore,  Count  Belim has  refused  any  offers  of  compromise. He  has  been  heard  to  say,  "111  be  King  of Golconda,  and  no  damn  hedge  knight who  is  too  poor  to  own  a  chamber  pot will  say  me  nay!"
No  provision  was  made  in  the  laws  to deal  with  such  an  impasse,  The  king¬ dom  is  locked  into  factional  dispute, and  since  the  backers  of  Belim  emulate his  arrogance,  tempers  are  getting  quite short.  Almost  ail  of  the  citizens  have forgotten  the  threat  from  Muktar,
All  except  Boubakar,  that  is.  He comes  to  the  PCs  and  presents  them with  a  parchment  signed  by  King  Sama- kay  on  his  deathbed.  It  allows  Bouba¬ kar  to  nominate  a  temporary commander  of  the  Golcondan  army.  He tells  the  party,  "I  waited  to  see  if  my  fel¬ low  nobles  could  pick  a  king,  but  they are  embroiled  in  their  politics.  Mean¬ while,  my  scouts  have  brought  me word  that  Muktar's  forces  are  but  three days'  march  away  from  the  pass.  I  must act.  Will  you  serve  Golconda  once more?"
If  answered  in  the  positive,  Boubakar will  nominate  the  fighter  with  the  high¬ est  combined  intelligence,  charisma, and  level  to  be  the  Army  Commander. If  he  is  asked  about  possible  adverse reactions,  he  will  say,  'in  our  land  a king's  writ  is  law.  Only  another  king can  overturn  it.  We  seem  quite  unlikely
to  have  a  king  before  the  fight  is resolved,  one  way  or  another.  We  must prepare  quickly  for  the  hourglass  is  also our  foe."
The  Battle
The  Gokondans  deploy  first,  at  the pass,  within  6"  of  the  woods.  The Muktarans  deploy  within  4W  of  the board's  southern  edge.  In  the  tunnel, the  first  Golcondan  unit  starts  on  the west  edge,  while  the  first  enemy  unit starts  on  the  eastern  edge.  (Both  sides are  deployed  in  columns  off  the  map.)
The  stream  on  the  Wiina  Pass  map  is fordable  anywhere,  but  there  is  a  4" movement  cost  to  cross  it.
Order  of  Battle
Golcondan  Forces
The  Noble  Levy  is  a  group  of  younger sons  and  other  noble  offspring  who  are not  involved  with  the  electoral  conven¬ tion,  They  believe  that  attack  is  the only  honorable  tactic.  The  unit  must make  a  discipline  check  whenever  an enemy  figure  is  in  sight.  If  the  check fails,  they  will  charge.  The  unit  is mounted  on  heavy  warhorses  and armed  with  heavy  lances.
Units  #2,  3,  and  4  are  identical.  These are  the  First,  Second,  and  Third  Dwar- ven  Foot.  They  wear  chain  mail  and carry  shields.  They  wield  battle  axes. Their  commander  (CR  7")  fights  with the  unit.
Unit  #5  is  the  String  Section,  a  force of  elves  who  recently  appeared  and offered  their  services.  They  are  wearing elfin  chain  mail  and  are  armed  with long  bows  and  long  swords.  Their  com¬ mander  (CR  8" )  fights  with  the  unit.
Unit  #6  is  the  Mosquitoes,  It  consists of  halflings  armed  with  short  swords. They  wear  chain  mail.  Their  com¬ mander  (CR  6")  fights  with  the  unit.
Unit  §7  is  the  Royal  Guard— stout fighters  dad  in  plate  mad,  and  carrying large  shields.  At  enormous  expense these  men  have  been  equipped  with
48
long  swords  +1,  because  they  were  a showpiece  unit  for  the  late  king.  He  liked the  way  that  the  swords  glowed— perfect for  ceremonial  occasions.  Their  com¬ mander  (CR  9" )  fights  with  the  unit.
Unit  #8  is  the  Royal  Foot,  men  in chain  mail,  shields,  and  armed  with long  swords*  Their  commander  (CR  7H ) fights  with  the  unit.
Muktaran  Forces
The  Ogrish  Guard,  is  a  unit  of  normal ogres;  they  like  being  called  guards, however.  Their  commander  {CR  6") fights  with  the  unit  *
The  Sluggers  are  hill  giants  armed with  dubs*  They  can  pick  up  rocks  to throw  anywhere  in  the  pass.  Their  com¬ mander  (CR  9ff )  fights  with  the  unit.
The  Asbestos  Troop  are  fire  giants armed  with  swords,  they  are  so  named because  they  enjoy  immunity  to  fire. They  can  pick  up  rocks  to  throw  any¬ where  in  the  pass*  Their  commander (CR  9*')  fights  with  the  unit.
The  Grunts  are  ores  riding  giant boars  and  armed  with  scimitars.  Their commander  (CR  6")  fights  with  the unit*
The  Sharp  Fangs  are  goblins  riding worgs  and  armed  with  short  swords. Their  commander  (CR  4" )  fights  with the  unit.
The  Ghastly  Foes  are  ghasts.  These fell  undead  creatures  exude  a  terrible stench  which  causes  adjacent  creatures to  make  a  saving  throw.  If  it  fails  the enemy  attacks  with  a  +2  AR  penalty Furthermore,  the  ghasts  can  paralyze their  opponents  when  they  inflict  dam¬ age  (see  BATTLESYSTEM™  Fantasy Combat  System  rules,  case  [13*4]  page 22).
Bazs  Bashers  are  giant  trolls.  They can  catch  have  a  25  %  chance  of  catch¬ ing  large  missiles.  They  also  regenerate (see  BATTLESYSTEM  Fantasy  Combat System  rules,  case  {13.8]  page  22)-  Baz (CR  9"),  a  giant  troll,  commands  the unit.
Ores  1-4  are  infantry  units.  Ores  #1 has  short  bows,  #2  carries  spears,  #3 and  #4  have  scimitars.  The  unit  com¬
manders  (CR  6")fight  with  their  units.
W  Flight  is  a  unit  of  wyverns.
Commanders  and  Tactics
The  Muktaran  army  is  divided  into  two brigades,  the  Maneuver  Brigade  and the  Heavy  Brigade.  The  former  consists of  those  units  marked  by  an  asterisk  in the  Order  of  Battle.  All  other  units  are in  the  Heavy  Brigade.
Any  of  the  Champions  of  Muktar that  were  slain  during  the  raid  of  Fort Blood  have  been  raised  from  the  dead. If  destroyed  utterly,  they  were  resur¬ rected  using  teeth  extracted  previously and  left  in  a  safe  place.  Those  killed  lose a  point  of  constitution.
Hank  commands  the  army,  but accompanies  the  Heavy  Brigade.  He  is riding  a  heavy  warhorse.  Lana  is  a  hero and  Deputy  Army  Commander.  She has  the  same  spells  as  she  had  in  the  Fort Blood  encounter.
Kalia  commands  the  Maneuver  Bri¬ gade  She  is  riding  a  black  mule.  Her Deputy  Brigade  Commander  is  Basil.
Lazio  commands  the  Heavy  Brigade.
Lord  Yrkhetep  is  a  Hero,  but  he  sim¬ ply  flies  point  high  above  Wilna  Pass, observing.  He  remains  invisible,  He will  intervene  only  if  the  battle  is  going poorly  for  Muktar  or  he  sees  something surprising— such  as  dragons  in  the  ene¬ my  ranks.  It  will  take  him  six  game turns  to  reach  the  field,  plus  time  to  cast preparatory  spells.  His  spells  are  the same  as  he  had  in  the  Fort  Blood encounter.
Muktar  will  attempt  a  classic  single envelopment,  The  Maneuver  Brigade will  turn  the  flank  by  marching  through the  Tunnel  of  Phraz  to  strike  the Golcondan  rear  during  the  middle  of the  battle.  It  takes  ten  game  rounds  to reach  the  northern  edge  of  the  pass from  the  western  edge  of  the  tunnel, and  it's  the  same  for  traffic  going  from the  tunnel  to  the  southern  end  of  the Pass,  Meanwhile,  the  Heavy  Brigade will  fix  the  enemy  in  position  and  press forward.  In  case  of  disaster,  the  stand¬ ing  orders  are  to  retire  if  a  brigade  has lost  three-fourths  of  its  units  (either
destroyed  or  routed  from  the  field).  No one  expects  this  to  happen,  if  it  does, the  heroes  and  commanders  will  save their  own  skins  rather  than  their  units.
If  the  PCs  find  a  way  to  close  the  tun¬ nel,  the  Maneuver  Brigade  will  turn  and march  to  the  sounds  of  battle.
Aftermath
When  the  battle  is  over,  assuming  the PCs  win,  a  force  of  mounted  knights arrives  on  the  field,  They  are  led  by Count  Belim,  who  has  been  crowned King  of  Muktar.  (His  opponent  with¬ drew  for  the  good  of  the  nation.)  He  is utterly  furious  with  the  PCs  over  their conduct.  He  rants  about  casualties  and the  cost  to  the  kingdom.  He  will  order the  remaining  troops  to  seize  the  "trai¬ tors"  However,  the  survivors  will refuse,  and  begin  to  mutter  mutinous words.  At  this  point  Belim  will  relent, and  simply  declare  a  new  edict  that revokes  their  right  to  command.  Fur¬ thermore,  Belim  will  banish  them  from the  kingdom.  He  gives  them  48  hours  to leave.  He  claims  that  there  is  too  many "foreign"  influences  in  Golconda already.  Actually,  Belim  fears  the  PCs now,  and  sees  them  as  a  threat  to  his shaky  regime.  The  troops  will  mutter, and  then  they  will  begin  spontaneous cheering  for  the  party.  The  dragons  (if living)  will  leave  in  a  snit.
Should  the  battle  go  badly  King Belim  meets  the  PCs  during  the  retreat. His  conduct  will  be  much  harsher.  Any troops  present  will  not  support  the characters,  and  so  PCs  either  will  be captured  or  forced  to  flee.  If  the  party stops  to  fight,  then  any  pursuing  enemy forces  will  overtake  them.
Either  way,  the  adventure  ends  with the  party  leaving  Golconda*  But,  as  the PCs  leave  the  land  they  fought  so  hard to  save,  they  see  Boubakar  high  on  a hill.  He  raises  his  right  arm  in  salute. Then  he  disappears  as  a  spring  rain begins.
49
Golconda
TUnnel  of  Phra2
Scale:  1  square  —  1”
Wilna  Pass
spolconda  Sketch  Map
Fort  Blood
Golcondan  Forces
Unit  Name
Type
LvI
AC
HD/Fig
MV
AR
ML
DL
#FIG
Dmg
Noble  Levy
Cav
F4
5
40
15"
18
13
12
8
2d4  +  l/ld8/ld8/ld3
1st  Dwarven  Foot
Inf
F3
4
30
6"
18
13
14
10
ld8
2d  Dwarven  Foot
Inf
F3
4
30
6"
18
13
14
10
ld8
3d  Dwarven  Foot
Inf
F3
4
30
6"
18
13
14
10
ld8
String  Section
Inf
F3
5
30
12"
17
13
12
10
ld6
Mosquitoes
Inf
F3
5
30
9"
18
13
14
10
ld6
Royal  Guard
Inf
FS
2
50
6"
15
14
15
10
ld8+l
Royal  Foot
Inf
F4
4
40
9"
18
13
14
10
ld8
Muktaran  Forces
Unit  Name
Type
LvI
AC
HD/Fig
MV
AR
ML
DL
#FIG
Dmg
Ogrish  Guards*
Inf
Ogr
5
40
9"
15
12
11
10
IdlO
Sluggers
Inf
HGi
4
80
12"
12
13
11
10
2d$
Asbestos  Troop
Inf
FGi
3
22
12"
20
15
16
10
5d6
Grunts
Cav
O&B
6
40
12"
19
14
13
8
Id8/3d6
Sharp  Fangs*
Cav
G&W
6
30
18"
20
13
11
10
Id6/2d4
Ghastly  Foes*
Inf
Ght
4
40
15"
15
N/A
N/A
10
2d4  +
Baz's  Bashers
Inf
GTr
4
80
12"
12
13
11
10
2d8
Orel
Inf
Ore
6
10
9"
19
11
10
10
ld6
Ore  2
Inf
Ore
6
10
9"
19
11
10
10
ld6
Ore  3*
Inf
Ore
6
10
9"
19
11
10
10
ld8
Ore  4
Inf
Ore
6
10
9"
19
11
10
10
ld8
W  Flight
Air
Wyv
3
SO
6"/24"<MCE>
17
13
12
s
2d8/ld6  -*
*  Members  of  Maneuver  Brigade
51
The  Final  Battle:  Infinity  TVain
This  adventure  is  designed  for  three  to five  characters  o!  level  15  or  higher.  The adventure  takes  place  after  all  of  the other  scenarios  in  this  book.  Although familiarity  with  the  previous  adven¬ tures  would  be  helpful,  it  is  not  neces¬ sary.
Players  Background
Two  weeks  ago  the  PCs  received  mes¬ sages  requesting  their  presence  at  an emergency  meeting  of  Turmish  and Chondath  leaders.  Maps  included  with the  messages  indicated  a  secluded woodland  south  of  Arrabar  as  the meeting  s  location.  No  indication  of  the nature  of  the  meeting  was  given,  but  the message  sounded  desperate.
The  PCs  arrive  on  the  designated evening.  When  they  near  the  woods, they  are  met  by  a  squad  of  nervous guards  who  escort  them  through  the brush  to  a  clearing  enclosed  by  dense trees.  Seated  around  a  smoldering campfire  are  about  two  dozen  well- dressed  men  and  women,  some  attend¬ ed  by  servants  and  secretaries.  It  is  clear from  their  apparel  that  these  men  and women  are  officials  and  dignitaries.  If the  PCs  have  participated  in  any  of  the previous  adventures  in  this  book,  they recognize  some  of  them— wealthy council  representatives  from  Timindar, the  mayor  of  Ormath,  gnome  officers from  Gildenglade,  even  a  regal  delega¬ tion  from  distant  Hlath.
Gloom  hangs  heavily  over  the  camp¬ site.  Most  of  the  people  stare  absently into  the  flames,  but  their  faces  lighten  at the  approach  of  the  PCs.  The  PCs  are offered  seats  near  the  campfire,  then  a stout  man  with  a  bushy  red  moustache rises  to  speak.  This  is  Pachipol,  the  cur¬ rent  mayor  of  Amah,  chosen  by  lottery to  be  spokesperson  for  the  group.  He thanks  the  PCs  for  their  promptness, then  soberly  addresses  the  group.
"That  wars  persist  in  this  world  is  a fact  of  life  "  he  says.  "But  I'm  sure  we agree  that  Chondath  and  Turmish  have had  more  than  their  share  the  past  few months.  We  know  now  that  these  wars
have  a  common  link,  one  that  could have  devastating  consequences  if  action is  not  taken  soon.  On  that  we  have  the word  of  Inata  Eller."
Pachipol  steps  back  and  gestures  to  a figure  lying  on  a  bed  of  leaves.  A  thin woman  about  35  years  old  dressed  in  a soiled  black  robe  sleeps  fitfully  tossing and  twisting  in  the  leafy  bed.  This  is Inata  Eller.  Inata  spent  her  youth  study¬ ing  the  mysteries  of  the  outer  planes under  the  direction  of  her  second  cous¬ in,  Gustofsen  Eller,  perhaps  the  most renowned  planar  expert  in  the  Forgot¬ ten  Realms.  Like  her  mentor,  Inata's insights  into  the  outer  planes  are extraordinary.  All  well-traveled  PCs have  heard  of  Inata  and  know  her  integ¬ rity  is  beyond  reproach.  (For  more about  Gustofsen  Eller,  refer  to  'The  Sea of  Screams"  adventure  in  QP1 — Tales of  the  Outer  Planes .)
Pachipol  asks  the  PCs  not  to  disturb Inata,  because  her  long  journey  from her  home  in  Winterwood  has  left  her exhausted.  Pachipol  explains  that  two weeks  ago,  Inata  contacted  the  officials to  tell  them  she'd  received  a  disturbing vision  originating  from  Oinos,  the  first layer  of  Hades.  The  vision  revealed  that an  insane  arcanadaemon  calling  himself Lord  Yrkhetep  was  constructing  a  pow¬ erful  weapon  to  destroy  Oinos,  the  rest of  the  outer  planes,  and  then  the  materi¬ al  planes,  beginning  with  the  Prime. Since  Yrkhetep's  device  requires  a  mas¬ sive  supply  of  bodies  and  spirits  to make  it  functional,  he  has  been  instigat¬ ing  and  encouraging  wars  around  the world,  concentrating  recently  on  Turin - ish  and  Chondath.
"The  device  must  be  destroyed  before Yrkhetep  completes  it/'  explains  Pachi¬ pol.  'It  will  take  an  army  of  brave  war¬ riors  and  even  braver  leaders.  The warriors  already  have  been  recruited and  will  arrive  here  tomorrow  at  dawn. Having  heard  many  tales  of  your  cour¬ age  on  the  battlefield,  we  hope  that  you will  agree  to  lead  them,"
The  PCs  will  likely  have  many  ques¬ tions,  but  Pachipol  has  no  more  infor¬ mation,  "Eller  will  provide  answers  in the  morning.  We  need  your  decision
now.  Will  you  help  us?"
If  the  PCs  hesitate,  Pachipol  loses  his temper.  "Don't  you  care  about  your own  world?"  He  demands  to  know what  they  want.  The  mayor  of  Urml offers  100  acres  of  prime  farmland.  The council  members  from  Timindar  offer 4,000  gp  and  a  guarantee  of  4,000  more on  the  PCs'  successful  return.  An  elder from  Hlath  offers  his  six  oldest  children as  slaves,  but  this  offer  is  withdrawn after  consultation  with  his  advisors.
The  PCs  may  accept  any  of  the  offers and  are  free  to  negotiate  for  more  (these leaders  have  access  to  plenty  of  resourc¬ es).  Assuming  they  agree  to  lead  the armies,  the  PCs  are  urged  to  get  a  good night's  rest — details  will  be  discussed  in the  morning.
Dungeon  Master  Background
For  centuries,  the  arcanadaemon Yrkhetep  has  longed  to  take  away  the title  of  Lord  of  the  Middle  Planes  from Anthraxus.  Although  the  power  of Yrkhetep  pales  before  that  of Anthraxus,  Yrkhetep  has  developed  a plan  to  assault  the  fortress  of  Khin-Oin and  destroy  his  hated  enemy.
For  months,  Yrkhetep  has  been secretly  inciting  warfare  throughout  the Forgotten  Realms,  Choice  warriors (both  survivors  and  casualties)  are returned  to  Hades.  Some  become  sol¬ diers  in  his  hellish  armies.  Others  are used  to  fuel  his  "infinity  train,"  a  weap¬ on  of  potentially  limitless  power.  When the  armies  and  infinity  train  are  at  full strength,  Yrkhetep  will  begin  the  siege on  Khin-Oin.
These  activities  have  not  gone  unno¬ ticed.  Anthraxus  has  always  been aware  of  Yrkhetep's  lust  for  power.  He has  also  noticed  Yrkhetep's  increased interest  in  prime  material  warfare. Occasionally,  Anthraxus  assisted  the opposition  to  defeat  Yrkhetep's  armies, but  generally  dismissed  Yrkhetep's efforts  as  trivial.
However,  Anthraxus  now  has  reason to  take  his  rival  more  seriously.  Yrkhe¬ tep  is  assembling  an  army  for  an  assault on  Khin-Qm,  and  the  assault  will  be
52
supported  by  some  kind  of  secret  weap¬ on,  Since  Anthraxus  has  not  seen  this "infinity  train"  in  operation,  he  does not  know  how  to  defend  against  it.
Anthraxus  has  devised  a  plan  that will  allow  him  to  see  the  weapon  in action  and  also  to  eliminate  some  of Yrkheteps  forces  at  the  same  time,  all without  his  direct  involvement, Anthraxus  knows  his  layer  of  Hades  is sometimes  observed  by  a  spell  caster from  the  Prime  Material  Plane,  Since the  magic-user  is  harmless,  Anthraxus has  always  ignored  her,  but  during  a recent  observation  he  made  contact, inducing  a  vivid  vision  of  her  world  in ruins  at  the  hand  of  Yrkhetep  and  his nightmarish  armies.  In  a  second  vision, she  was  told  of  a  devastating  weapon Yrkhetep  was  developing  in  Oinos.  If the  weapon  wasn't  destroyed  soon,  the destruction  foretold  in  the  first  vision would  come  to  pass.
Anthraxus  knew  the  gullible  woman would  believe  these  visions.  Concerned for  her  pathetic  world,  she  would  find  a way  to  rally  the  forces  necessary  to invade  Oinos  and  destroy  Yrkhetep,  his minions,  and  his  weapon.  Anthraxus could  find  out  everything  he  wished  to know  and  would  barely  have  to  lift  a finger  to  do  it.
An  Audience  with  Inata
When  the  PCs  arise  at  dawn  the  next morning,  they  find  most  of  the  officials and  their  attendants  are  already  up, waiting  for  the  armies  to  arrive.  "We have  scouts  on  the  road,"  says  Pachipol . "It  shouldn't  be  long."  Pachipol  points out  that  Inata  is  awake,  and  the  PCs may  speak  with  her  If  they  wish.
Inata  is  sitting  alone  in  the  grass beside  a  tall  tree.  She  is  pale  and  lost  in thought.  If  the  PCs  approach,  she smiles  at  them  timidly.
Inata  Eller  ST  9;  IN  IS;  WS  14;  DX  9; CN  7;  CH  12;  CM  IS;  AC  7;  Move  12" ; CL6;  hp  20;  #AT  1;  Dmg  staff;  THACO 18;  AL  LG
Spells:  cure  light  wounds  (x2),  defect evil  (x2),  light,  know  alignment ,  detect
charm,  resist  fire ,  cure  disease,  create food  and  water
Inata  is  smart,  but  she  is  also  shy  and naive.  She  believes  her  visions  are  accu¬ rate  and  has  no  idea  Anthraxus  is manipulating  her.
If  the  PCs  question  Inata,  she  tells them  what  she  knows,  essentially repeating  the  story  Pachipol  told  them last  night.  If  asked  how  the  visions  were revealed  to  her,  Inata  explains  that  a magical  crystal  given  to  her  by  her cousin  Gustofsen  enabled  her  to  peer into  the  outer  planes.  For  the  past  few months  she  had  sensed  increased  activi¬ ty  in  an  area  of  Oinos  dominated  by  the cruel  arcanadaemon  Yrkhetep.  The nature  of  this  activity  was  unclear,  but Inata  sensed  it  foretold  destruction  and death.
"While  attempting  to  clarify  the images,  the  crystal  rose  from  the  table and  glowed  like  a  star"  continues  Inata. "Light  flashed  from  the  crystal  and bathed  my  face.  It  was  then  I  received the  first  vision.  I  spoke  his  awful  name aloud — Yrkhetep.  As  soon  as  the  word left  my  lips,  the  crystal  shattered  and burst  into  flames,  it  was  then  1  received the  second  vision,  and  I  knew  what  I must  do."
The  PCs'  conversation  with  Inata  is interrupted  by  a  shout  from  Pachipol. "Come,  friends!"  he  cries.  "Your  armies have  arrived!"
Reviewing  the  Troops
The  PCs  probably  will  be  eager  to  get  a look  at  the  armies  they've  agreed  to lead  into  Hades.  Considering  the importance  of  the  mission  and  the resources  available  to  these  mighty nations,  the  PCs  likely  will  be  expecting soldiers  of  the  highest  caliber.
But  as  the  troops  straggle  in,  it's  clear that  they'll  have  to  settle  for  something less.  The  first  group  of  ragged  soldiers looks  frightened  and  confused. Another  group  appears  to  be  made  of farmers  and  teenagers.  Yet  another group  leads  griffons  with  tattered  wings and  graying  fur.
"We  did  the  best  we  could  on  such short  notice"  explains  Pachipol  sheep¬ ishly.  "The  wars  have  depleted  our  best forces.  And  we  had  a  little  trouble  find¬ ing  soldiers  willing  to,  er,  go  to  Hades."
The  PCs  may  now  review  their troops.  All  the  soldiers  are  of  lawful good  alignment.  If  the  indicated  NPCs have  been  killed  in  previous  adventures or  are  otherwise  unavailable,  substitute similar  NPCs.
The  Iron  Legion
The  Iron  legion  is  so  named  because most  of  its  members  are  hardened  vet¬ erans  of  the  wars.  The  name  also  refers, however,  to  the  soldiers'  ages— many sport  more  than  a  few  iron-gray  hairs.
The  1st  Mercenaries  are  a  unit  of  200 civilians  who  have  had  only  minor  mili¬ tary  experience.  They  agreed  to  partici¬ pate  because  they  need  the  money promised  them  if  they  successfully complete  the  mission.  They  are  loyal fighters  and  are  armed  with  long swords.  Any  PC  may  command  them. Because  of  their  inexperience,  they must  make  a  Morale  Check  the  first time  they  come  within  12"  of  each  new non-human  opponent  (in  addition  to any  other  required  Morale  Checks). This  is  a  militia  unit.
The  2d  Mercenaries  are  a  unit  of  200 farmers  and  other  rural  residents, including  many  teenagers.  In  addition to  short  swords,  they  are  armed  with pitchforks,  hoes,  and  rakes  sharpened to  fine  points.  Any  PC  may  command them.  Like  the  1st  Mercenaries,  they  are militia  and  their  inexperience  requires  a Morale  Check  the  first  time  they  come within  12"  of  each  new  non-human opponent.
If  the  PCs  participated  in  the  battle  at Urml  (see  The  Hand  of  Tyr),  they  rec¬ ognize  several  of  the  fighters  in  Urml Militias  A  and  B,  Both  units  have  been brought  up  to  full  strength.  Urml  Mili¬ tia  A  is  armed  with  long  swords  and rides  armored  light  warhorses.  Everon is  their  unit  commander  (CR 14" ) .  Urml Militia  B  is  armed  with  spears  and  rides armored  light  warhorses.  Celch a r  is
53
their  unit  commander  (CR  12").  Both units  contain  50  soldiers.  These  are  the most  dependable  and  efficient  regular units  available  to  the  PCs.
The  next  three  units  also  might  be familiar  to  the  PCs  (from  the  Battle  of the  Five  Crowns) ,  If  they've  met  before, the  PCs  will  notice  a  few  disturbing  dif¬ ferences.
The  Wmdriders  are  elite  cavaliers who  ride  griffons.  But  these  griffons  are old;  their  fur  is  gray  and  their  wings  are stiff  and  balding.  If  the  PCs  ask  unit commander  Bren  Wingblade  (CR  15”) about  this,  Wingblade  explains  that  the lives  of  prize  griffons  are  more  valuable than  those  of  soldiers,  and  this  mission promises  to  be  deadly.  Knowing  that old  griffons  prefer  to  end  their  lives  on the  field  of  battle,  the  Windriders brought  these  mounts  to  ride  into Hades.  Because  of  their  age,  the  grif¬ fons  can  only  stay  airborne  for  one game  round  and  can  go  no  higher  than low  altitude.  They  attack  normally. The  Windriders  are  armed  with  lances and  long  swords.
The  6th  Municipal  Guard  is  from Arrabar.  They  are  armed  with  long swords  and  short  bows.  Any  PC  can command  them.  Because  of  their  reli¬ gious  convictions,  members  of  this  unit loathe  undead.  Undead  are  considered hated  opponents,  requiring  the  appro¬ priate  discipline  checks.
The  Sisterhood  of  the  Oaks  are female  rangers  armed  with  long  swords and  short  bows.  Their  unit  commander, Adriennedar  Valgarien  (CR  14”),  warns the  PCs  that  her  unit  has  vowed  never to  harm  birds,  fish,  or  any  other  "chil¬ dren  of  nature"  including  any  they might  encounter  in  Hades,  (Adrienne¬ dar  and  the  Sisterhood  decide  what constitutes  "children  of  nature"—  their specific  objections  are  noted  later  in  this adventure.)
The  Royal  Foot  (from  Gratitude  of Princes)  is  back  to  their  full  strength  of 100  men.  They  are  armed  with  long swords  +2  and  wear  chain  mail  with shields.  Any  PC  may  command  them. The  soldiers  of  this  unit  have  an  obses¬ sive  and  adolescent  sense  of  chivalry.
They  see  themselves  as  the  protectors  of the  Sisterhood,  (The  Sisterhood  doesn't encourage  or  enjoy  this,  but  they  toler¬ ate  it  for  the  sake  of  the  mission. )  Any and  all  enemy  units  who  attack  the  Sis¬ terhood  become  hated  opponents  of  the Royal  Foot,  requiring  discipline  checks where  appropriate.  Additionally,  the Foot  will  always  stay  within  12”  of  the Sisterhood,  regardless  of  orders  to  the contrary.  (Measure  this  from  the  closest figures  in  the  Sisterhood  and  Royal Foot  units.)  Finally,  if  the  Sisterhood  is eliminated,  the  Royal  Foot  will  attack the  unit  which  destroyed  them,  charg¬ ing  if  possible,  and  will  continue  to attack  regardless  of  orders.
Inata  Eller  will  accompany  the  arm¬ ies  into  Hades,  as  she  is  the  only  one who  knows  her  way  around.  Inata  will not  participate  in  combat  and  must remain  with  one  or  more  of  the  PCs  for protection.
Briefing
After  the  PCs  review  the  troops,  the officials  bid  them  good  luck  and  fare¬ well;  they  must  return  home  to  attend to  the  business  of  governing  their  cities. When  the  officials  are  gone,  Inata  tells the  PCs  it  is  vital  they  leave  for  the  out¬ er  planes  as  soon  as  possible.  She  sug¬ gests  that  the  PCs  instruct  the  units  to make  any  final  preparations.
If  the  PCs  are  curious  how  they  will travel  to  the  outer  planes,  Inata  tells them  there  is  a  conduit  not  far  away; this  is  why  she  suggested  to  the  officials the  meeting  be  held  here.  The  conduit will  take  them  within  walking  distance of  Yrkhetep's  domain  in  Oinos*  If  the PCs  ask  how  she  knows  about  the  con¬ duit,  Inata  tells  them  the  information came  to  her  in  a  dream.  (It  came  courte¬ sy  of  Anthraxus.)
If  the  PCs  are  unfamiliar  with  the outer  planes,  Inata  answers  any  general questions  they  have.  "It  is  an  evil  place," she  says,  "full  of  darkness  and  death." (This  is  a  good  time  to  review  game mechanics  that  apply  when  visiting  the outer  planes.  Prime  planar  spells  that summon,  communicate,  or  control
creatures  of  the  outer  planes  are  ineffec¬ tive,  A  cleric  and  druid  can  only  regain 1st  and  2d  level  spells,  unless  in  his  dei¬ ty's  home  plane.  In  Hades,  clerics should  be  treated  as  4  levels  lower  when attempting  to  turn  evil  undead,  For more  details,  see  pages  73-S2  and  105- 106  of  the  Manual  of  the  Planes  J
When  the  PCs  have  completed  the briefing  with  Inata,  they  may  order  the units  to  move  out.  They  should  distrib¬ ute  command  assignments  among themselves,  determine  a  marching order  for  the  units,  and  decide  who  will guard  Inata.
Into  the  Outer  Planes
Inata  leads  the  PCs  and  the  units through  the  woods  for  about  a  mile  to  a meadow  of  wild  flowers.  She  pauses before  a  still  pond  about  30  yards across,  "Here  we  are,"  she  says,  gestur¬ ing  toward  the  pond.  'This  is  our  gate¬ way  to  Hades."  Inata  explains  that  the pond  is  actually  a  conduit.  To  cross  the planes,  all  they  need  to  do  is  jump  in. She  demonstrates  by  tossing  in  a flower.  The  flower  vanishes  before  it hits  the  surface.
Adriennedar  steps  forward  and  vol¬ unteers  for  the  Sisterhood  to  go  first.  A shocked  soldier  of  the  Royal  Foot  says his  unit  cannot  allow  a  lady  to  go  before them.  This  angers  Adriennedar,  and  she demands  an  apology.  The  PCs  may resolve  this  dispute  any  way  they  wish; the  units  will  abide  by  the  PCs'  deci¬ sion.
When  it  has  been  determined  who will  go  first,  the  chosen  unil  (or  charac¬ ter)  steps  to  the  edge  of  the  pond,  then dives  or  jumps  in.  Like  the  flower,  the unit  vanishes  before  hitting  the  surface. This  is  too  much  for  the  inexperienced 1st  and  2d  Mercenaries.  Both  units must  make  an  immediate  morale  check. Failing  the  check  means  that  10%  of  the unit  (two  figures)  refuse  to  go  any  fur¬ ther.  No  amount  of  coaxing  or  threat¬ ening  will  change  their  minds.  {Remove these  figures  from  play  and  adjust  the record  sheet  accordingly.)
When  the  PCs  jump  into  the  pond.
54
their  skin  tingles,  their  heads  throb,  and they  black  out.  When  they  regain  con¬ sciousness  a  moment  later,  they  have passed  harmlessly  into  Oinos.  the  top layer  of  the  Glooms  of  Hades,
The  Black  Bridge
The  PCs  and  the  units  find  themselves on  a  smooth  plateau  of  black  stone. Any  PC  examining  the  stone  and  mak¬ ing  a  successful  intelligence  check  deter¬ mines  that  the  plateau  is  made  of  coal.
The  still  air  is  cold  and  dry  and  all  is silent.  Above  is  a  dark  gray  sky — no stars,  no  moon,  no  douds.  Behind  the party  is  a  pool  of  white  mist  about  30 yards  across.  This  pool  is  the  Hades side  of  the  conduit;  because  directions were  reversed  when  the  party  crossed the  planes,  they  fell  "up"  through  this pool.
The  sides  of  the  plateau  are  feature¬ less  and  sheer;  dimbing  down  is  impos¬ sible.  About  a  half  mile  down,  the  slope vanishes  in  a  swirl  of  dense  gray  fog. Towering  mountains  extend  as  far  as the  eye  can  see,  their  bases  all  shrouded in  the  same  dense  fog.
At  the  edge  of  the  plateau  is  a  natural bridge  which  extends  across  the  valley of  fog  to  mountain  about  a  mile  away. The  bridge  is  about  25  Feet  wide  and  is also  made  of  black  stone.  Inata  tells  the PCs  that  the  bridge  leads  to  Yrkhetep's domain.
The  PCs  should  decide  the  order  in which  the  units  will  march  across  the bridge.  The  surface  of  the  bridge  is smooth  and  flat.  With  caution,  the  par¬ ty  will  have  no  trouble  crossing  it.  Any character  or  unit  careless  enough  to  fall in  will  never  be  heard  from  again.
The  atmosphere  in  Oinos  is  thick with  microscopic  spores  and  disease- carrying  bacteria.  Though  higher-level characters  are  able  to  tolerate  these organisms,  less  robust  characters  aren't so  fortunate.  After  traveling  across  the bridge  for  about  200  yards,  some  of  the soldiers  begin  to  complain  of  weakness and  nausea.  To  simulate  the  effects  of the  disease  organisms,  make  an  attack on  each  unit  whose  members  are  3rd
level  or  lower  (1st  and  2d  Mercenaries, 6th  Guards,  and  Sisterhood  of  the Oaks)  at  A R  20  on  the  D6  column  of  the combat  results  table.  Place  wound markers  where  appropriate,  and remove  any  figures  which  have  been wiped  out  by  disease,  (Some  of  these unfortunates  may  have  fallen  into  the valley  below.)
When  the  party  has  traveled  halfway across  the  bridge,  they  notice  dark clouds  gathering  on  the  horizon.  The clouds  are  moving  toward  them.  As  the clouds  draw  closer,  the  party  sees  they are  actually  large  groups  of  living  crea¬ tures.  The  creatures  fly  directly  over the  army  and  hover  there,  about  100 yards  up,  then  a  single  creature — recognizable  as  a  rider  and  its  mount— leaves  the  group  and  slowly  descends towards  the  PC  (or  PCs)  in  the  front  of the  line.  The  rider  is  a  demonic  woman with  hideous  purple  skin,  black  hair, glowing  red  eyes,  and  long  black  tal¬ ons,  The  mount  is  a  gaunt  horse  with  a huge  head,  black  coat,  glowing  red eyes,  and  hooves  which  burn  like embers.
The  rider  and  mount  float  20  feet  in front  of  the  chosen  PC.  "We  come  to make  a  trade  "  rasps  the  rider.
The  night  hags  and  night  mares spend  most  of  their  time  roaming  Hades searching  for  the  human-headed  worm spirit-larvae  used  as  a  medium  of exchange  and  a  source  of  nourishment in  the  lower  planes.  Lately  however, the  pickings  have  been  slim;  Lord Yrkhetep  has  been  snapping  up  all  the choice  larvae  to  power  his  mysterious device.
The  night  hags  and  night  mares  are cranky  and  hungry.  Spotting  the  armies on  the  bridge  below,  they  thought  the horses  might  make  an  interesting  meal and  sent  an  emissary  to  negotiate. Ordinarily  the  night  hags  would  just take  what  they  wanted,  but  they  fear these  armies  might  be  affiliated  with Yrkhetep;  they'd  just  as  soon  avoid crossing  him  if  possible.
The  night  hag  tells  the  chosen  PC  that they  want  the  horses  and  wish  to  make a  fair  trade.  Specifically  they  want  the
horses  ridden  by  the  Urml  Militia  (they have  no  interest  in  griffons).  If  asked what  they  have  to  trade,  the  hag  says "currency"  and  offers  no  elaboration. The  hag  adds  that  If  they  refuse  to trade,  they  will  kill  them  and  take  what they  want.
If  the  chosen  PC  resists  or  if  the  party attacks,  the  hag  withdraws  and  shrieks a  signal  to  her  companions.  The  douds of  hags  and  night  mares  draw  closer, and  the  party  sees  there  are  thousands of  them.  Having  made  her  point,  the hag  demands  a  decision  from  the  PCs.
If  the  PCs  agree  to  trade  the  horses, several  dozen  hags  and  night  mares descend  on  Urml  Militia  A.  They  nudge away  the  riders,  then  fly  away  with  the horses.  The  riders  are  unharmed.  The hag  negotiator  tells  the  chosen  PC  that they'll  try  these  horses  now,  and  if  they- Ye  satisfactory  they'll  come  back  for  the rest  later.  (All  the  horses  are  perma¬ nently  lost  from  Urml  Militia  A.  Adjust the  unit's  statistics  accordingly.)
When  the  horses  are  out  of  sight,  the hags  swoop  overhead  to  drop  their payment — human-headed  larvae. These  are  rotted  and  deformed  larvae which  are  of  no  use  to  the  hags.  After dumping  thousands  of  the  squirming larvae  on  the  armies  below,  the  hags and  night  mares  ride  away,  disappear¬ ing  in  the  distance.  The  larvae  don't  do any  damage  to  the  units — it  feels  like they  Ye  being  rained  on  by  jellyfish. Once  again,  this  is  more  than  some  of the  more  inexperienced  soldiers  can handle.  Both  the  1st  and  2d  Merce¬ naries  must  make  an  immediate  morale check.  Failing  the  check  means  10%  of the  unit  (rounding  up)  races  back  across the  bridge  in  panic  to  dive  into  the  mist pool  and  go  home.  (Remove  these  fig¬ ures  permanently  from  play.)
If  the  party’  refuses  to  give  up  their horses  or  instigates  an  attack  against the  hags,  the  hag  negotiator  retreats  to her  group  and  orders  them  to  attack with  a  few  magic  missiles.  (The  attack  is made  against  a  randomly  chosen  unit. The  attack  inflicts  8  dice  of  damage  on the  target  unit.)  The  party  is  free  to attack  the  hags  and  night  mares  any
55
way  they  choose,  but  there  is  such  an overwhelming  number  of  opponents that  any  attacks  are  futile.
The  hags  attack  with  magic  missiles for  two  game  rounds.  After  the  second attack,  the  air  suddenly  fills  with  explo¬ sions  of  bright  light,  and  sheets  of  flame flash  across  the  sky.  The  hags  immedi¬ ately  abandon  their  attack  and  soar away  into  the  distance  as  fast  as  they can.
The  PCs  probably  will  be  at  a  loss  to explain  this*  If  they  ask  Inata,  she  has no  answer,  but  speculates  that  some demonic  enemy  of  the  hags  frightened them  away,  (She's  close— Anthraxus  is responsible,  wanting  to  make  sure  the armies  reach  Yrkhetep  in  good  shape.)
The  Domain  of  Yrkhetep
The  rest  of  the  trip  across  the  bridge  is uneventful,  The  bridge  ends  in  a  cave  in the  side  of  a  mountain*  The  circular entrance  is  about  15  feet  in  diameter.
After  winding  through  the  cave  for 50  yards,  the  party  enters  a  vast  valley (see  map)  completely  enclosed  by  sheer mountain  walls  rising  a  mile  into  the sky.  The  floor  of  the  valley  is  flat  and made  of  black  granite  laced  with  jagged cracks.  A  thin  mist  hangs  over  the entire  area,  and  the  party  can  dimly make  out  a  few  features — an  immense metal  cylinder  in  the  northeast  comer, several  pockets  of  dense  fog,  and  a glowing  tube  that  winds  like  a  serpent from  one  side  of  the  valley  to  the  other.
Once  they've  entered  the  battlefield, the  units  may  set  up  in  the  designated area  shown  on  the  map.  The  appear¬ ance  of  the  quasit  in  the  Guardian  of the  Realm  encounter  below  marks  the beginning  of  the  battle.
Battlefield  Features
Following  are  descriptions  of  key  bat¬ tlefield  features.  Remember  that  only their  physical  appearances  are  readily apparent  to  the  PCs — they  11  probably have  to  find  out  the  details  the  hard way,
1.  Guardian:  This  is  where  the  quasit
appears  (see  the  Guardian  of  the  Realm encounter  below).
2,  Craters:  These  craters  are  about  4  feet wide  and  6  feet  deep;  there  is  no  damage if  clumsy  characters  fall  in.  These  cra¬ ters  are  linked  by  an  underground  pas¬ sage  about  5  feet  wide  and  5  feet  high. Drado  Weny,  a  magic- user  minion  of Yrkhetep  (see  below),  is  cursed  to remain  in  these  passages.
3,  Conduits:  These  dense  fog  pockets are  actually  conduits  leading  to  night¬ marish  realms  in  the  lower  planes. Characters  or  units  coming  within  10 feet  of  these  conduits  will  feel  a  power¬ ful  suction.  Characters  or  figures  com¬ ing  within  5  feet  will  be  sucked  in,  never to  be  seen  again.
4,  Track:  This  is  the  "track"  for  Yrkhe- tep's  infinity  train .  It  looks  like  a  tube  1 foot  in  diameter,  glowing  with  a  soft white  light.  The  tube  begins  and  ends  in the  conduits  on  the  west  and  east  sides of  the  map.  The  tube  rises  and  falls  like the  tracks  of  a  roller  coaster,  the  highest sections  rising  100  feet  in  the  air.  The map  indicates  the  sections  that  lie  close to  the  ground.
5,  Refuse  Mounds:  From  a  distance,  these look  like  30-foot  hills  of  garbage.  They are  actually  piles  of  bones  and  decompos¬ ing  bodies*  Zombies  and  skeletons  reside here.
6,  Lava  Pool:  This  is  a  steaming  pool  of molten  lava  10  feet  deep.  It  is  the  home of  100  mephits,  currently  shape changed  into  lava.  Any  character unfortunate  enough  to  be  immersed  in the  lava  pool  suffers  6d6  points  of  dam¬ age.
7,  Iron  Cylinder  This  is  a  featureless  cyl¬ inder  made  of  solid  iron.  It  extends  300 yards  into  the  sky  and  is  nearly  100  yards in  diameter;  only  a  portion  of  it  is  visible from  the  battlefield.  This  is  the  source  of power  for  Yrkhetep's  infinity  train *
Yrkhetep's  Forces
There  are  100  mephits  lurking  in  the lava  pool.  Lava  mephits  attack  twice, once  with  their  daws  (shift  one  column to  the  right  on  the  combat  results  table for  additional  heat  damage)  and  once
with  a  breath  weapon,  spewed  blobs  of lava  which  automatically  hit  any  target within  a  10-foot  range  for  ld6  points  of damage.  The  mephits  attempt  to  keep in  contact  with  the  lava  pool  at  ail  times in  order  to  regenerate *  (Yrkhetep  has enhanced  their  regeneration  ability*  A wounded  unit  recovers  fully  if  it  stays in  contact  with  the  lava  for  three  game rounds.  Eliminated  units  can't  regener¬ ate . )  Contact  with  the  lava  also  supplies them  with  ammunition  for  their  breath weapons.  Their  touch  destroys  metal almost  instantly  (plate  armor  dissolves in  one  game  round).  Snox  is  their  unit commander  (CR  9).
The  skeletons  fight  with  short  swords or  short  bows  and  bone  arrows.  They take  1/2  damage  from  edged  weapons. The  zombies  always  strike  last,  and their  melee  losses  should  be  removed before  their  attacks*  Both  zombies  and skeletons  are  immune  to  sleep,  charm , hold,  and  cold-based  spells.  Neither need  to  check  morale  or  discipline,  but they  always  need  to  be  in  command  to move  or  fight.  If  they  go  out  of  com¬ mand,  they  continue  following  their last  order  regardless  of  circumstances* Both  units  are  commanded  by  Multon Weny:  ST  5;  IN  10;  WS  10;  DX  8;  CN 10;  CH  9;  CM  9;  AC  10;  Move  12": MU5;  hp  18;  #AT  1;  Ding  staff:  THAC0 2d  20;  AL  CE;  Rank  Unit;  AR  35;  CR 9";  CB  0;  wand  of  lightning  bolts  (60 charges).
Spells:  magic  missile,  burning  hands , shocking  grasp ,  dancing  lights ,  pyro¬ technics,  darkness  15*  radius ,  flame arrow
Multon  is  a  human  magic-user  who entered  Qinos  in  search  of  his  brother, Drado,  and  was  enslaved  by  Yrkhetep.
The  two  units  of  hordlings  are  both commanded  by  a  night  hag  in  the  serv¬ ice  of  Yrkhetep  (CR  6",  AR  35)*  The first  unit  is  medium-sized,  has  low  intel¬ ligence,  has  MR  5%,  and  attacks  with two  huge  tusks.  The  second  unit  is large-sized,  has  high  intelligence,  has MR  30%  ,  and  attacks  with  talons*
Each  of  the  three  units  of  diakka  has its  own  unnamed  unit  commander  (CR
56
14”  for  unit  A,  CR  8"  for  units  B  and C).  Unit  A  is  the  tall  variety.  They  are large-sized,  resemble  huge  storks  with human  heads  and  arms,  attack  with sharp  bills,  and  bound  in  and  out  of melee  combat  using  jump  (once  per day)  and  weakness  (twice  per  day). Units  B  and  C  are  the  broad  variety. They  are  medium-sized,  resemble  squat pelicans  with  human  heads,  and  attack with  clawed  arms.  If  diakka  surround their  opponent  (at  least  two  units  on opposite  sides),  they  use  audible  glamer to  make  it  sound  as  if  more  diakka  were coming.  If  an  intact  diakka  unit  spends one  game  round  hooting  and  dancing, the  sounds  and  rhythm  invoke  a  hyp¬ notic  enfeeblement  which  has  an  area effect  identical  to  the  ray  of  enfeeble¬ ment  spell,
A  year  ago,  an  arrogant,  evil  magic- user  named  Drado  Weny  ventured  into Oinos  to  declare  himself  an  ally  of Yrkhetep.  Yrkhetep  was  not  amused and  cursed  Weny  to  remain  in  the underground  passage.  Weny  will  be freed  when  he  destroys  a  thousand  ene¬ mies  of  Yrkhetep.  He  has  a  long  way  to go.  Weny's  brother  Multon  (see  above) came  to  rescue  him,  but  was  made  a slave  in  charge  of  Yrkhetep's  undead troops.
Drado  Weny:  ST  15;  IN  9;  WS  9;  DX 14;  CN  15;  CH  9;  CM  10;  AC  10;  Move 12";  MU3;  hp  12;  #AT  X;  Dmg  staff; THACO  2d  20;  AL  CE;  Rank  Unit;  AR 29;  CR  14”;  wand  of  lightning  (50 charges)
Spells:  magic  missile,  shield,  stinking cloud
Lord  Yrkhetep  is  present  on  the  bat¬ tlefield,  functioning  as  an  army  com¬ mander.  (See  the  Gratitude  of  Princes adventure  for  Yrkhetep's  spell  list.)  He will  fly  and  become  invisible  to  stay  out of  the  battle  as  long  as  possible.
The  Infinity  Train
The  infinity  train  is  a  virtually  inde¬ structible  weapon  of  enormous  magni¬ tude  designed  by  Yrkhetep.  Fortunately
for  the  PCs,  the  train  isn't  yet  fully developed,  but  it  will  still  pose  a  formi¬ dable  problem.
The  train  resembles  a  series  of  large glowing  carts.  The  carts  have  no  wheels and  are  not  visibly  connected  to  each other.  (To  represent  this  on  the  battle¬ field,  use  five  1”  x  2"  counters  laid  end to  end  in  open  formation.)  The  carts  all appear  to  be  jammed  with  ghostly  fig¬ ures  of  humans  and  other  creatures, writhing  and  howling  in  agony.
The  train  is  a  manifestation  of  the energies  which  make  up  the  conduits  in the  outer  planes.  The  "riders"  are  a form  of  worm-spirits  developed  by Yrkhetep  to  help  power  the  train;  many of  these  spirits  were  formerly  evil  war¬
riors  involved  in  the  battles  Yrkhetep has  instigated  in  Chondath  and  Turm- ish.  Additional  power  for  the  train  is provided  by  the  huge  iron  cylinder, actually  a  storage  tank  filled  with choice  worm-spirit  larvae,  many  of which  were  also  former  Prime  Material warriors.  Yrkhetep  plans  to  construct more  of  these  storage  cylinders  and accumulate  millions  of  worm-spirits and  larvae  to  realize  the  full  potential  of his  train.
When  the  train  appears,  it  bursts from  the  conduit  on  the  west  edge  of  the map,  races  along  the  track,  and  van¬ ishes  into  the  conduit  on  the  east  edge, filling  the  entire  battlefield  with  blind¬ ing  light  and  the  sounds  of  tortured
57
shrieks.  The  train  moves  at  unlimited speed,  but  for  game  purposes,  assume that  in  a  game  round  in  which  it  appears it  is  on  and  off  the  battlefield  before either  side  moves  their  forces.  The shrieking  sounds  precede  the  appear¬ ance  of  the  train  by  one  game  round.
Each  game  round  when  the  train appears,  it  makes  a  single  attack  on  any one  unit  during  the  initial  missile  phase. The  attack  is  an  energy  blast  resembling a  hail  of  glowing  white  pellets.  The blast  can  come  from  any  part  of  the train  and  can  envelop  any  size  unit  any¬ where  on  the  battlefield.  The  blast always  hits  its  intended  target  and  has an  AR  of  10,  doing  3dl0  damage  on  the Combat  results  table.  If  a  unit  is  foolish enough  to  remain  on  the  track  when  the fram  is  approaching,  the  train  passes through  them,  doing  4dI0  damage  (AR 10)  before  attacking  with  its  energy blast.
Attacking  the  train  is  useless.  All physical  objects,  such  as  arrows  or swords,  are  sucked  into  the  aura  of  con¬ duit  energy  surrounding  the  train ,  van¬ ishing  before  they  can  do  any  damage. The  fram  also  resists  all  magical attacks.  However,  there  is  a  way  to destroy  it,  as  explained  below.
Two  Secrets
Diligent  PCs  may  discover  two  impor¬ tant  secrets  about  the  battlefield.
1,  The  Train  Can  Be  Destroyed: Although  the  tram  itself  is  indestructi¬ ble,  the  track  isn't.  The  spongy  track  is AC  10,  and  it  can  be  cut  when  a  section accumulates  25  HD  of  damage.  The tram  can  jump  a  single  cut  section,  so the  track  must  be  cut  in  two  places  for derailment.  When  the  train  hits  the  sec¬ ond  section  of  cut  track,  it  vanishes  in  a shower  of  light,  utterly  destroyed.  (The most  accessible  areas  of  the  track  for cutting  are  the  ground  level  sections indicated  on  the  map;  cutting  any  two of  these  three  sections  will  cause  the train  to  derail.)
The  party  might  discover  this  meth¬ od  of  destroying  the  train  by  trial  and error.  However,  both  Drado  and
Multon  Weny  know  about  this  weak¬ ness  from  eavesdropping  on  Yrkhetep. If  either  Drado  or  Multon  are  defeated by  the  party,  they  will  reveal  this  secret in  return  for  their  lives,
2,  The  Floor  Isn't  What  It  Seems:  The floor  of  the  battlefield  isn't  solid.  It  is only  about  20  feet  thick  and  covers  a huge  conduit  spanning  the  entire  battle¬ field.  The  conduit  leads  to  the  most dreaded  depths  of  the  lower  planes.
This  information  isn't  particularly helpful  during  the  battle,  but  it  could come  in  handy  at  the  end  (see  Daemon Thunder  below).  Characters  who  pur¬ sue  Drado  in  the  underground  passage may  find  out  about  the  conduit  if  Dra¬ do  makes  a  bad  shot  and  blasts  a  hole  in the  passage  floor  with  his  wand  of  light¬ ning,  The  quasi t  also  knows  about  the floor  and  may  tell  the  party  as  a  result of  their  encounter.
The  Battle
When  the  units  have  been  arranged  in the  set  up  area,  but  before  any  actions can  be  taken,  the  sky  darkens  with black  clouds.  A  rumble  of  thunder  soon becomes  deafening,  and  the  entire  val¬ ley  fills  with  swirls  of  black  fog  and howling  wind.
Following  a  loud  crack  of  thunder, the  fog  dissipates.  Standing  defiantly before  the  party  (at  point  1  on  the  map) is  a  tiny  squat  creature  with  a  pointed tail  and  flickering  black  tongue.  '7  am master  of  realm,"  it  bellows  in  a  dipped voice.  "Kill  you  all  nowT
This  quasit  is  one  of  Yrkhetep's  ser¬ vants,  positioned  here  to  size-up  the invaders  before  the  battle  begins.  To convince  the  quasit  to  perform  this  dif¬ ficult  job,  Yrkhetep  promised  to  make him  invulnerable  to  all  attacks.  Yrkhe¬ tep  lied;  he  considers  the  quasit  expend¬ able.
The  quasit  continues  to  badger  the party  into  fighting  him.  If  they  hesitate, the  quasit  flings  himself  at  the  nearest PC  and  attacks  ferociously.  The  party should  have  no  problem  dealing  with the  quasit.  When  the  shocked  quasit loses  more  than  half  his  hit  points,  he
polymorphs  into  a  frog  and  attempts  to escape.  If  the  quasit  gets  away,  he  will never  be  seen  again.  If  captured,  the helpless  quasit  tells  the  party  what  he knows  in  exchange  for  his  life*
The  only  pertinent  information  the quasit  has  is  that  the  floor  conceals  a gigantic  conduit.  Unfortunately,  the quasit  has  trouble  communicating  this; he  points  to  the  floor  and  repeats, "Nothing  down  there!  Nothing  down there!"  It  is  up  to  the  PCs  to  make  sense of  this.
Deployment
After  the  encounter  with  the  quasit,  the forces  of  Yrkhetep  deploy  as  follows. All  deploy  in  closed  formation.
The  skeletons  and  zombies  emerge from  the  refuse  piles.  Multon  Weny  is with  them.  They  position  themselves  in front  of  the  piles.
The  hordling  units  come  from  behind the  refuse  piles  and  position  themselves anywhere  in  front  of  the  lava  pool.
All  three  diakka  units  appear  from the  conduit  in  the  southeast  comer  of the  battlefield  facing  the  party.
The  mephits  remain  in  lava  form until  any  enemy  unit  comes  within  10 feet  of  the  lava  pool.  The  mephits  then leap  from  the  lava,  automatically  gain¬ ing  the  initiative.  (At  the  DM's  discre¬ tion,  the  mephits  may  deploy  earlier  if needed.)
Yrkhetep's  Strategy
Yrkhetep's  goal  is  simple— total  annihi¬ lation  of  the  invaders.  The  mindless skeletons  and  zombies  will  likely  con¬ duct  frontal  assaults  against  the  nearest enemy  units,  aided  by  occasional  blasts from  Multon's  wand  of  lightning  bolts . If  possible,  the  hordiings  will  pick-off weaker  units  first.  The  diakka  will attempt  to  take  advantage  of  their  spe¬ cial  abilities  by  surrounding  units  from at  least  two  sides.  The  mephits  won't stray  far  from  the  lava  pool,  but  will pursue  weaker  enemies  if  the  opportu¬ nity  arises.  All  evil  forces  will  attempt to  rout  their  enemies  into  the  conduits and  lava  pool  if  possible.
58
Drado  will  scamper  through  the  pas* sages,  popping  up  in  the  craters  to  blast PCs  with  his  wand  of  lightning  before disappearing  again.  Characters  are  free to  enter  a  crater  and  pursue  Drado, who  cannot  leave  the  passage.  If  things look  bad  for  Drado,  he  tells  his  pursuer about  the  vulnerability  of  the  train track  in  exchange  for  his  life.  It  is  possi¬ ble  that  in  the  heat  of  battle,  a  stray lightning  holt  from  Drado  will  break  a hole  in  the  passage  floor,  revealing  a portion  of  the  conduit  underneath*
The  infinity  train  appears  and attacks  for  the  first  time  in  the  second game  round,  and  every  other  round after  that.  At  the  DMs  discretion,  the train  may  follow  a  more  irregular  pat* tem,  as  long  as  the  train  doesn't  appear in  two  consecutive  game  rounds. Remember  that  the  fram  can  be  heard approaching  the  round  before  It appears.
Good  Guys'  Strategy
The  party's  goal  is  to  destroy  the  weap¬ on  Lnata  was  warned  about  in  her dreams.  If  the  PCs  don't  realize  the train  is  the  weapon,  lnata  clues  them  in (courtesy  of  Anthraxus).  The  PCs  may decide  to  destroy  the  giant  iron  cylin¬ der,  but  this  is  impossible— the  struc* ture  is  impenetrable  by  any  methods the  PCs  have  at  their  disposal.
The  PCs  may  decide  to  retreat  and  go home  before  the  battle  is  resolved.  If  so, they  see  the  hovering  clouds  of  night hags  and  night  mares  lingering  outside
the  entrance  to  the  battlefield,  drawn by  the  sounds  of  combat.
Daemon  Thunder
When  the  outcome  of  the  battle  is  dear, Anthraxus  and  his  three  ultrodaemon attendants  appear  about  200  feet  in  the air  over  the  battlefield.  If  the  good  guys are  winning,  Anthraxus  has  appeared to  destroy  the  iron  cylinder,  now  that he  has  had  a  chance  to  analyze  Yrkhe¬ tep  s  weapon.  If  the  bad  guys  are  win¬ ning,  Anthraxus  has  appeared  to intervene.
As  soon  as  Anthraxus  appears  with the  ultrodaemons,  Yrkhetep  appears  to challenge  them,  Anthraxus  accepts, and  an  aerial  battle  begins.  If  the  PCs decide  to  become  involved  in  this  bat¬ tle,  all  of  the  daemons  turn  on  them  to convince  them  to  stay  out  of  it,
Yrkhetep  is  hopelessly  out-matched, and  the  battle  goes  quickly.  When Yrkheteps  defeat  seems  imminent, Anthraxus  abruptly  orders  two  of  the ultrodaemons  to  charge  the  iron  cylin¬ der;  Anthraxus  wants  Yrkhetep  to  see  it destroyed  with  his  own  eyes.  The  ultro¬ daemons  crash  into  the  cylinder  and explode  in  a  shower  of  flames.  The explosion  creates  a  deep  crack  in  the side  of  the  cylinder,  and  thousands  of wriggling  worm-spirit  larvae  begin  to pour  out.
The  sundering  of  the  iron  cylinder causes  an  earthquake.  Horrified, Yrkhetep  teleports  far  away.  Anthraxus follows.  The  earthquake  causes  the
floor  of  the  battlefield  to  vibrate  and crack,  revealing  the  conduit  beneath. Meanwhile,  the  hovering  clouds  of night  hags  and  night  mares  swarm  into the  battlefield  to  scoop  up  the  abun¬ dance  of  fresh  larvae  spilling  from  the cylinder.
The  PCs  and  their  units  have  five game  rounds  to  escape  from  the  battle¬ field  before  the  entire  floor  collapses into  the  conduit  below.  If  the  PCs  have already  learned  about  the  conduit,  they should  realize  the  danger  as  soon  as  the earthquake  begins.  Any  characters  or units  who  are  left  behind  are  swallowed into  the  conduit.
As  the  night  hags  and  night  mares  are busy  harvesting  larvae,  the  PCs  and their  units  are  ignored  as  they  leave  the battlefield.  The  rest  of  the  trip  home  is uneventful.
Success
Regardless  of  the  outcome  of  the  battle, if  the  PCs  didn't  succeed  in  destroying the  train,  the  mission  has  been  unsuc¬ cessful.  Even  with  the  destruction  of  the cylinder,  Yrkhetep's  threat  remains;  he will  be  able  to  recover  the  train  and rebuild.
If  the  PCs  destroyed  the  train,  they have  effectively  ended  the  schemes  of Yrkhetep,  at  least  for  the  time  being. Warfare  in  Turmish  and  Chondath drops  off  noticeably,  and  the  PCs  are hailed  as  heroes.
59
The  Iron  Legion
Unit  Name
Type
Lvl
AC
HD/Fig
MV
AR
ML
DL
#FG
Dmg
1st  Mercenaries
Inf
FI
7
10
12"
20
12
12
20
ld8
2d  Mercenaries
Inf
Fl
7
10
12"
20
12
12
20
ld6
Urrnl  Militia  A
Cav
F4
4
40
18"
18
14
16
5
Id8/ld4/ld4
Urml  Militia  B
Cav
F4
4
40
18
18"
14
16
5
Id6/ld4/ld4
Windriders
Cav
Ca5
3
30
12"/30*(MCD)
20
15
17
6
ld6  +  l/ld4/ld4/
2dB
6th  Guards
Inf
F3
2
30
6
18
13
13
16
ld8
Sisterhood  of  the  Oaks
Arch
R 3
3
30
12
18
13
13
6
ld6
Royal  Foot
Inf
F4
4
40
9
18
13
14
10
ld8  +  l
Yrkhetep's  Forces
Unit  Name
Type
Lvl
AC
HD/Fig
MV
AR
ML
DL
#FIC
Dmg
Lava  Mephits
Inf
Meph
6
30
12/24
16
12
12
10
Id8/ld6
Skeletons
Arch.
Skd
7
10
12
19
12
N/A
20
ld6
Zombies
Inf
Zombies  8
20
6
16
12
N/A
16
ld8
Hordlings  A
Lnf
Hordl
2
35
9
18
13
12
4
2d6
Hordlings  B
Inf
Hordl
0
45
15
17
15
16
4
2d6
Diakka  A
lnf
Diakka
0
35
21
18
15
14
3
1(112
Diakka  B
Inf
Diakka
3
45
12
17
14
13
3
2d4/2d4
Diakka  C
Inf
Diakka
3
45
12
17
14
13
3
2d4/2d4
60
The  First  (and  Last)  Charge  of the  Dwarven  Air  Cavalry
Kallamos  Var  is  an  ore  rich  mountain. Veins  of  gold  and  mithral  are  plentiful and  there  for  the  taking*  The  dwarves who  live  at  Kallamos  Var  eagerly  mine this  wealth.
Now,  during  a  time  when  many  of  the dwarves  are  away  observing  a  holiday with  their  families,  a  tribe  of  goblins called  the  Dwarfbanes  is  descending upon  the  mine.  They  have  been  aided  by an  anonymous  evil  magic-user  who  has supplied  them  with  wyvems.
Fortunately  there  was  a  lag  between the  time  when  the  goblins  learned  to ride  the  wyvems  and  the  actual  inva¬ sion.  During  this  period,  dwarven scouts  learned  of  the  plan  and  dashed back  to  the  mine  with  the  news*
Because  there  was  insufficient  time  to call  back  the  rest  of  the  dwarves,  the leaders  at  the  mine  wracked  their  brains thinking  of  a  good  solution*  Flying  gob¬ lins  would  certainly  have  a  great advantage  over  earthbound  dwarves.
As  luck  would  have  it,  a  wandering brass  dragon  also  spotted  the  wyvem- mounted  goblins,  and  being  a  good sort,  dropped-in  at  the  mine  to  discuss the  matter  with  the  dwarves.
The  dwarves,  some  who  spoke  brass dragon,  tried  to  negotiate,  hoping  the dragon  would  assist  them.  Unfortunately the  dragon  was  mote  inclined  to  conversa¬ tion  than  action.  The  dwarves  got  the dragon 's  attention  briefly  when  they  men¬ tioned  a  reward,  but  it  lost  interest  when the  frugal  dwarves  offered  only  perma¬ nent  lodgings  In  one  of  the  played-out win^  of  the  mine.  Failing  at  their  first attempt  to  recruit  the  dragon,  the  dwarves offered  it  a  few  small  gems.  The  dragon, being  a  shrewd  haggler  accepted  them  in return  for  spreading  word  of  the  dwarves' plight  to  his  "friends."  The  dragon  prom¬ ised  to  tell  his  "friends"  that  the  dwarves  of Kallamos  Var  would  be  generous  to  any who  helped  them.  The  dwarves  reluctant¬ ly  agreed,  and  the  dragon  flew  off  to  his home  m  the  Great  Desert*  A  short  time  lat¬ er,  a  flock  of  forty  especially  moronic  dra- gonnes  descended  on  the  mine,  their
otherwise  empty  heads  filled  with  visions of  dwarvish  treasure.  These  were  the dragon's  "friends,"  and  the  only  creatures stupid  enough  to  be  recruited  on  the promise  of  dwarven  generosity*
So  was  created  an  impossibility:  Stout dwarves  mounted  on  dim-brained  dra~ gonnes,  forming  air  cavalry,  Part  of  the force  would  remain  earthbound  as  ground support*  After  a  few  days  of  hasty  train¬ ing,  the  First  Dwarven  Air  Cavalry  was  as ready  as  it  would  ever  be.
Order  of  Battle
Dwarven  Forces:
The  1st  Dwarven  Air  Cavalry  is  an  inex¬ perienced  unit.  What  they  lack  in  experi¬ ence  they  make  up  in  ferocity.  The dragonnes  can  only  keep  up  flight  for  20 game  rounds,  then  they  must  land  and rest  for  five  game  rounds.  They  cannot use  their  roar  weapon  in  this  battle,  since friendly  troops  might  be  affected.
The  unit  has  light  lances  and  short swords,  and  are  clad  in  chain  mail.  They may  enter  dosed  formation  when  they land.
The  first  time  the  air  cavalry  engages the  enemy  the  unit  undergoes  a  disci¬ pline  check.  If  they  pass,  nothing  is amiss  and  this  particular  roll  need  never be  made  again.  If  they  fail,  they  must land  as  quickly  as  possible.  This  reflects the  dragonnes'  stupidity  and  the dwarves'  dislike  of  heights*
After  spending  one  round  on  the ground,  the  air  cavalry  may  fly  back  up and  engage.  Repeat  the  discipline  check after  the  first  round  of  combat,  with  the same  results,  until  the  unit  passes  the check.
The  Air  Cavalry  is  led  by  Bren  Golden- beard:  ST  17:  IN' 12:  W  12:  CN  16;  CH 11;  CM  10;  F7;  AC  0;  Move  9n;  F 7;  hp 50;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg  war  hammer;  THACO 13;  AL  LG:  Rank  unit;  AR  28;  CR  12"; CB  0;  chain  mail  + 2 ,  shield  +2,  war hammer  +3
The  defenders  of  Kallamos  Var  are basic  dwarf  infantry.  They  wear  chain mail  and  carry  shields.  They  are  armed with  hammers  and  short  bows*  All
dwarven  units  get  a  -1  bonus  on  their AR  vs*  goblins.  Their  unnamed  com¬ mander  has  CR  7n  *
Goblin  Forces:
The  Dwarfdeath  is  armed  with  spears and  short  swords.  The  wyvems  are unable  to  use  their  poison  stings,  as their  riders  are  too  inexperienced  to avoid  being  struck  by  them.  They  are led  by  a  Verlmak  Bonechopper  (CR  6"  )♦
Neither  army  needs  to  check  disci¬ pline  because  of  seeing  a  "hated"  oppo¬ nent,  Both  sides  are  quite  aware  of  what their  enemies  are  and  have  taken  mea¬ sures  to  restrain  themselves*
Setup
The  goblins  attack  after  sunset.  The  sky  is cloudy,  and  there  is  a  light  fog.  Treat  it  as normal  fog  (See  BATTLESYSTEM™  Fan¬ tasy  Combat  System  rules,  page  211 except  that  flight  is  allowed.  The  terrain  is rough,  but  the  dwarves  may  enter  closed formation*
The  dwarves  set  up  first.  The  Air Cavalry  starts  at  low  altitude  and  no further  than  6W  from  the  dwarf  ground forces.  The  ground  forces  start  out  no further  than  4"  from  the  mine  entrance*
The  mine  entrance  is  located  on  the face  of  a  sheer  cliff.  This  cliff  marks  the eastern  edge  of  the  battlefield  and  is only  accessible  via  the  entrance.  The field  itself  should  be  81  by  4'*  The  mine entrance  is  3W  wide*
The  goblins  start  at  medium  altitude on  the  board's  western  edge*
Victory  Conditions
The  goblins  must  eliminate  all  the dwarves  and  have  at  least  three  figures remaining  in  order  to  control  the  mine. They  must  accomplish  this  within  30 game  rounds.  The  rest  of  the  dwarves are  assumed  to  have  returned  by  that time,  and  the  goblin  force  could  not possibly  contend  with  them  unless  they had  a  good  defensible  position,.  The only  such  place  is  the  mine.  The dwarves  win  by  preventing  the  goblin victory  conditions.  If  both  sides  wipe each  other  out,  the  dwarves  win.
61
Troll  Bridge
The  Bridge
On  the  road  between  Hlondeth  and Ormafch,  at  the  point  where  a  narrow finger  of  water  runs  from  the  southern Orsraun  Mountains  into  the  Vilhon Reaches,  stands  a  sturdy,  40r  wide  and 21 0*  long  wooden  bridge,
There  is  no  toll  to  cross  the  bridge,  as the  structure  was  built  with  the  cooper¬ ation  of  the  governments  of  Ormath and  Hlondeth  to  encourage  commerce. The  bridge  is  inspected  periodically, and  any  necessary  repairs  are  taken care  of  immediately.
Thick  wooden  pilings  wedged  deep into  the  river  bottom  support  the  over¬ laid  plank  flooring,  while  heavy  ropes draped  from  suspension  beams  at  each end  and  in  the  center  provide  support and  stabilization.
The  Ambush
Recently,  a  caravan  of  traders  arrived in  Hlondeth  with  disturbing  news. While  crossing  the  bridge,  their  six- wagon  caravan  was  attacked  by  a  gang of  hideous  green  humanoid  creatures. The  monsters  killed  anyone  in  the  party who  resisted,  and  then  looted  the  wag¬ ons,  throwing  everything  of  value  into the  river.  Out  of  the  original  thirty  trav¬ elers,  only  eight  are  left  to  tell  the  tale.
The  merchants  agree  to  put  up  a
reward  of  3,000  gp  for  the  extermina¬ tion  of  the  creatures.  In  addition,  the mayor  of  Hlondeth  will  put  his  60-man militia  under  the  command  of  anyone who  wants  to  take  up  the  challenge.  If the  attacks  continued,  and  word spreads,  the  results  would  be  disastrous for  Hlondeth  economy,
The  Battle  Site
The  area  around  the  bridge  is  mostly flat  plains  with  several  dusters  of  thick, wiry  scrub  brush  growing  along  the banks  fo  the  river.
As  the  troops  approach  from  the east,  they  see  that  the  river  is  muddy and  slow-flowing  (maximum  depth  is 12'),  The  river  cannot  be  forded.  The bridge  is  empty  at  the  beginning  of  the scenario.
There  are  80  gnolls  hiding  in  the bushes,  40  at  each  end  of  the  bridge. Because  of  their  green  tint  they  are  not noticeable  until  a  unit  or  character passes  within  10  yards  {1")  of  them, and  then  only  if  they  are  actively searching.  If  not  discovered  premature¬ ly,  the  gnolls  will  wait  until  the  militia crosses  to  the  center  of  the  bridge,  and then  attack  from  each  end.
In  addition,  there  are  12  scrags (marine  trolls)  living  in  the  water  under the  bridge.  The  gnolls  are  in  partner¬ ship  with  the  scrags,  and  dump  all  their ill-gotten  booty  into  the  water  to  be
stored  in  the  scrags'  lair  until  such  time as  it  can  be  divided.
If  the  gnolls  seem  to  be  doing  poorly in  the  battle,  the  scrags  will  climb  up  the wooden  pilings  and  lend  their  support. The  battle  ends  in  a  victory  for  the militia  if  all  the  gnolls  and  scrags  are killed  or  routed,  even  if  the  bridge  is destroyed  (see  below).  The  battle  ends in  a  victory  for  the  monsters  if  the  mili¬ tia  is  killed  or  routed  and  the  bridge  is unharmed.
Order  of  Battle
Militia
The  Hlondeth  Militia  are  4th  level  fight¬ ers  wearing  scale  mail,  riding  light  war- horses  and  brandishing  broad  swords and  shields.  Half  the  militiamen  (3  fig¬ ures)  are  equipped  with  two  flasks  of oil.  Each  man  m  the  other  half  has  two torches  and  a  tinder  box.
Humanoids
The  Snivlers  are  gnolls  armed  with  bat¬ tle  axes.
The  Terror  of  the  Deep  is  a  clan  of  12 scrags  which  attack  with  fangs  and daws.  Like  their  kin  the  trolls,  they have  the  ability  to  regenerate  but  only when  immersed  in  fresh  water.  They can  be  killed  only  by  fire  or  acid.
62
Defense  of  Halfllng  Vale
While  many  large  forces  dashed  during the  war  sometimes  called  Hades  War, there  were  many  smaller  conflicts. Some  of  these  battles  had  little  to  do with  the  war,  but  instead  arose  from long  smoldering  squabbles  and  grudges that  came  to  the  surface  during  the  cha¬ os  that  always  arises  from  war.  A  typi¬ cal  battle  of  this  sort  was  the  Defense  of Halfllng  Vale.
Tucked  in  a  pleasant  valley  to  the north  of  Hlondeth,  the  community  of Halfllng  Vale  was  untouched  by  the fighting.  The  halflings  had  relied  upon isolation  for  defense,  but  when  a  hunter sighted  an  army  of  ores  approaching many  halflings  began  packing-up  their belongings.  When  a  second  sighting  by a  more  sober  halfling  confirmed  the sighting,  panic  broke  out.
At  this  point  a  party  of  adventurers entered  town.  One  of  them,  a  paladin, urged  resistance,  and  the  group  offered its  help  in  fighting  the  evil  foe.  The  pal¬ adin  spoke  so  eloquently  about  the necessity  for  good  beings  to  thwart  evil at  every  opportunity  that  the  halflings elected  him  to  lead  their  tiny  army.
The  Adventurers
Richard  Wynne  (human  male):  ST  16/ 22;  IN  12;  WS 16;  DX  14/34;  CN  17/02; CH 17/10;  CM  16;  AC  0;  Move  6" ;  P5; hp  40;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg  long  sword; THACO  16;  AL  LG;  Rank  as  assigned; AR  31;  CR  11”;  CB  +2;  tong  sword , +  1;  shield  +2
Azialia  Waft  (elven  female):  ST  9;  IN 18;  WS  &;  DX  10;  CN  12;  CH  12;  CM 14;  AC  5;  Move  12" ;  P5;  hp  14;  #AT  1; Dmg  dagger;  THACO  2d  20;  AL  CG; Rank  as  assigned;  AR  35;  CR  8Va";  CB 0
Spells:  protection  from  evil  sleep , magic  missile  (x2),  invisibility,  mirror image,  fireball.
Halli  the  Bold  (dwarven  male):  ST  17; IN  8;  WS  8;  DX  16;  CN  16;  CH  10;  CM 9;  AC  1;  Move  6”;  F5;  hp  37;  #AT  1;
Dmg  scimitar;  THACO  16;  AL  LN; Rank  as  assigned;  AR  31;  CR  TVs";  CB 0;  scimitar  +2,  ring  of  protection  +  1
Samm  Brogunn  (halfling  male);  ST  10; IN  10;  WS  6;  DX  17;  CN  14;  CH  9;  CM 10;  AC  5;  Move  9";  T4;  hp  14;  #AT  1; Dmg  short  sword;  THACO  2d  20;  AL CN;  Rank  as  assigned;  AR  35;  CR 6V2w  ;  CB  0;  potion  of  speed ,  cuarcd  of wonder  (9  charges)
Mirable  Dictu  (half  elven  male):  ST  15; IN  14;  WS  14;  DX  14;  CN  14;  CH  14; CM  16;  AC  2;  Move  6";  C3/R3;  hp  21; 0AT 1;  Dmg  battle  axe;  THACO  16;  AL CG;  Rank  as  assigned;  AR  31;  CR  9n ; CB  0;  battle  axe  +2,  scro/I;  cure  serious wounds,  raise  dead
Spells:  cure  tight  wounds  (x3),  bless , hold  person
The  Invaders
Unbeknownst  to  the  party,  the  ores  have secret  allies  and  a  secret  weapon.  The allies  are  two  hill  giants,  and  the  weapon is  the  smudgepot  of  dusk ,  which  causes dusk-like  conditions  in  a  one-mile  square area.  This  will  allow  them  to  attack  in daylight  with  no  penalty,  (It's  not  much of  a  secret  weapon,  but  what  do  you expect,  an  artifact?)  They  also  have  a leader.  Muds,  a  giant  ore  (his  father  gave a  hill  giantess  a  philter  of  love).
Muck:  AC  4;  Move  12";  HD  5;  hp  37; 0 AT  1;  Dmg  1-8 + 2;  THACO  13;  AL  LE; Rank  Army;  AR  28;  CR  8";  CB  +1,
Tiny  and  Tyke  (hill  giants):  AC  4;  MV 12" ;  HD  8+2;  hp  51,  49;  #AT  1;  Dmg 2-16;  THACO  12;  AL  CE;  AR  27,
The  Battlefield
The  scene  of  this  fight  is  15"  x  15* square.  The  town  is  just  beyond  the south  edge  of  the  map.  A  four-inch wide  swath  runs  east  to  west  along  the south  edge.  This  area  is  a  field  of  ripe barley,  which  is  four  feet  tall.  The  rest of  the  battlefield  is  plowed  ground, which  doubles  movement  costs.
Deployment
The  halfling  force  deploys  first  within four  inches  of  the  south  map  edge. Unless  the  party  does  something  to remove  the  barley  the  halflings  units will  be  effectively  hidden  amidst  the grain;  the  halflings  treat  the  standing grain  as  a  woods.  The  ores  deploy  sec¬ ond,  within  two  inches  of  the  northern edge,.
Order  of  Battle
Halfling  Forces
The  two  Badger  units  are  armed  with short  swords.
The  Bullets  are  armed  with  slings. The  Hornets  are  armed  with  short bows.
Each  unit  is  commanded  by  a  halfling who  fights  with  the  unit  (CR  7" ) .  All  of halfling  units  receive  a  morale  modifier of  + 1  if  any  ore  unit  routs,  even  if  it  is subsequently  rallied.
Orcish  Forces
The  Stingers  are  armed  with  short bows,
The  Slasher  units  are  equipped  with scimitars.
The  Jabbers  are  carrying  spears.
All  units  are  commanded  by  ores  (CR 6"  ).  If  the  army  commander.  Muck,  is slain  all  ordsh  units  must  make  an immediate  morale  check  with  +4  on the  roll.  Failure  means  that  the  unit routs.  If  the  unit  rallies  it  retains  the morale  penalty  for  the  rest  of  the  battle.
Victory  Conditions
This  is  a  simple  fight  to  the  death.  The side  that  totally  eliminates  the  other wins.  Units  that  rout  off  the  map  are considered  eliminated.  If  the  halflings prevail,  the  adventurers  are  honored  by the  villagers  and  given  the  title  of  Half¬ ling  Friends.  Also,  they  are  rewarded with  all  the  ale  they  can  drink  in  a  single evening,  plus  100  gp  each.
63
The  First  (and  Last)  Charge  of  the  Dwarven  Air  Cavalry
Dwarven  Forces:
Unit  Name  Type  LvI  AC  HD/FIG  MV  AR  ML  DL  #FIG  Ding
1st  Dwarven  Air  Cavalry  Cav  F4  5  40  15"  /9"  (MC  E)  18  15  16  8  Id6/ld8/ld8/3d6
Defenders  of  Kallamos  Inf  5  4  25  9  21  14  15  8  ld4  + 1
Goblin  Forces:
Unit  Name Dwarfdeath
Type  LvI  AC  HD/FIG
-  = .
/
10
AR  ML  DL  #FIG
10  20
Ding
Id6/2d8/ld6
Trollbridge
Militia
Unit  Name
Type  Level  AC  HD/Fig
MV
AR  ML  DL  #Fig
-ifsp
18  14  16
Dmg
2d4/ld4/ld4
Humanoids
Unit  Name  Type  Level  AC  HD/Fig  MV  AR  ML  DL  #Fig  Dmg
ld8
+  I/ld4  +  1/ ldlO+2
Snivlers Terror  of  the  Deep
Inf
Inf
Gnl
5
3
15  15
10
13
8
6
1  d  4
Defense  of  the  Halfling  Vale
Halfling  Forces
Unit  Name
Type  Lvl
AC
HD/Fig
MV
AR  ML
DL
#FIG
Dmg
Badger  2
h  7
TJ
10
10
9
9
20
20  12 12  13
13
10
10
10
ld6
Bullets
In  1
7
10
9
20  12
13
10
ld4  +  1
Hornets
In  1
7
10
9
20  12
13
10
ld6
Orcish  Forces
Unit  Name
Type  Lvl
AC
HD/Fig
MV
AR  ML
DL
#FIG
Dmg
i;xrsi
In  Ore In  Ore
5
o  o
i“t  rH
9
9
19  11
19  11
12
12
10
10
ld6
ld8
Slasher  2
In  Ore
6
10
9
19  11
12
10
ld8
Jabbers
In  Ore
6
10
9
19  11
12
10
ld6
64
Advanced  Dungeons|»)rAgons
Swords  of  the Iron  Legion
Ravening  armies  sweep  across  the  land!  Vast hordes  of  foul  monsters  lay  siege  to  mighty  cit¬ ies!  Tremendous  battles  are  fought  to  decide the  fate  of  entire  lands — and  you  are  in  com¬ mand!
Swords  of  the  Iron  Legion  is  an  anthology  of adventures  set  in  the  FORGOTTEN  REALMS™ campaign  setting  for  large-scale  battle  using the  BATTLESYSTEM’"  rules  for  mass  combat. The  adventures,  written  by  a  group  of  talented designers,  range  from  simple  skirmishes  to  all- out  wars!  Flying  creatures,  war  machines,  forti* fications,  and  plenty  of  other  twists  ensure  that each  scenario  is  more  than  a  simple  bash-’em- up.  Some  adventures  also  include  roteplaying opportunities  for  characters,  who  get  a  chance to  perform  individual  heroics  to  lead  their  arm¬ ies  to  victory!
These  adventures  are  suitable  for  one-time play,  or  they  can  be  inserted  with  ease  into  an existing  campaign.  Complete  descriptions  of the  armies,  special  characters,  terrain,  and  oth¬ er  interesting  features  to  guarantee  you  hours of  fun  on  a  grand  scale  are  included  in  each adventure.
An  Adventure  for  6-8  Characters  Levels  1-15  and  up
- 1  90S  TSR,  [tic,  AH  Rights  Reserved.  Printed  in  CJ.S.A.
TSR,  Inc.  TSR  UK  Ltd.
RO.  Box  756  The  Mill,  Rathmore  Road
Lake  Geneva,  Cambridge  CB1  4AD
WI  53147  CLS.A.  United  Kingdom
ISBN  0-88038-559-6
9226XXXX 1401
$7.95  U,S,
Refuse  Mound
'  \  Underground  Passage
Ground  Leve t  Section
Conduit
if'Crater
\1
Set-up  Area  s>
Entry  from  Bridge
Combined  Monster  Statistics  'fable
Name
AC
MV
HD
hp
ttxr
Dmg
THACO
SA
SD
Book  1
Arcanadaemon
(Yrkhetep)
-2
12" /18"
13+39
104
4
1-4/1-4/2-16/1-6
8
Y
Y
MMll
Cloud  Giant
3
15"
12  +  1-8
62  each
1
6-36
9
Y
Y
MM1
Derghodaemon
0
12"
11  +  22
77  each
5
9-12  (x5)
10
Y
Y
MMll
Foo  Lion
-1
21"
11  +  11
65
3
2-8/2-8/2-16
9
Y
Y
MMll
Gargoyle
5
9" /15"
4
20
4
1-3/1-3/1-6/  1-4
15
N
Y
MM!
Gold  Dragon
Adult
-2
12" /30"
12
60  each
3
1-8/1-8/6-36
9
Y
N
MMI
Sub-adult
-2
12"  /30"
12
36
1-8/1-8/6-36
9
Y
N
MM1
Griffon
3
12V  30"
7
35  each
3
1-4/1-4/2-16
13
N
N
MMI
Huecuva
3
9"
2
9
1
1-6
16
Y
Y
FF
Horse,  Draft
7
12"
3
15
1
1-3
16
N
N
MMI
Kobold
Guard
7
6"
Va
3  each
1
1-6
20
N
N
MMI
Second  String
8
6"
V2
2  each
1
1-4
20
N
N
MMI
Necrophidius
2
9"
2
12
1
1-8
16
Y
Y
FF
Night  Hag
9
9"
8
40  each
1
2-12
12
Y
Y
MMI
Night  Mare
-4
15"/ 36"
6+6
36  each
3
2-8/4-10/4-10
13
Y
N
MMI
Nyeadaemon
-4
12" /36”
96  each
2
9-16/9-16
9
Y
Y
FF
Ogre
5
9"
4  +  1
25  each
1
1-10
15
N
N
MMI
Oinodaemon
(Anthraxus)
-6
18"
16  +
233
2
2-12/2-12
7
Y
Y
MMll
Quasi  t
2
15"
3
14
3
1-2/1-2/1-4
16
Y
Y
MMI
Silver  Dragon
“I
9"/24"
11
55
3
1-6/1-6/5-30
10
Y
N
MMI
Spotted  Lion
5/6
12"
6  +  2
31  each
3
1-4/1-4/1-2
13
Y
Y
MMI
Treant
0
12"
8
48  each
2
2-16/2-16
12
Y
Y
MMI
Ultrodaemon
-5
15"/15"//15”
14  +  28
98
2
2-8/ 2-8
8
Y
Y
MMll
Yagnodaemon
1
18"
13  +  13
78  each
1
1-10  +  12
9
Y
Y
MMll
Vargouille
S
/12"
1  +  1
7  each
1
1-4
18
Y
N
MMI]
Wyvem
3
6" /24"
7  +  7
42  each
2
2-16/1-6
12
Y
N
MMI
*  wtuinrHi*
Che
shimIn  q
/**-
Av.
WY
■fc  w
IV*T
or
ClKSSENlii
JzHr  -  ^ '
