Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09428 AD& D Module GA 3 Tales Of Enchantment ( 5 8)"
See other formats
GA3 

ADVENTURE 


For characters of levels 5-8 


Advanced 


Official Game Adventure 


by Jim Musser 








Whispering Widow Woods (DM s map) 











































































TaLes of 
Enchantment 


Introduction.1 

Plot Synopsis .2 

Chapter One: Outer Forest .4 

Troubleshooting .9 

Chapter Two: Diversions.10 

Chapter Three: Inner Perils.19 

Chapter Four: Pixie Trouble .26 

Resolution.30 


Credits 

Design: Jim Musser 
Editing: Anne Gray McCready 
Cover Illustration: Glen Orbik 
Interior Illustrations: Ken and Charles Frank 
Cartography: John Knecht 
Typography: Tim Coumbe 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and AD&D are registered 
trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 

The TSR logo, DUNGEON MASTER, and DM are trademarks owned 
by TSR, Inc. 

(c)1993 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. Printed in the U.S.A. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribu 
tion rights in the book trade for English language products. Distrib 
uted to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 
Distributed to the book and hobby trade by regional distributors. 

This product is protected under the copyright laws of the United States 
of America. Any reproduction or other unlawful use of the material or 
artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written 
permission of TSR, Inc. 

TSR, Inc. TSR Lld 

POB 756 120 Church End 

Lake Geneva Cherry Hinton 

WI53147 Cambridge CBI 3LB 

USA United Kingdom 


Tales of Enchantment is designed for three to 
six characters, levels 5 to 8. Almost any mix of 
classes can succeed, but players will find it very 
helpful to have at least one character who can 
detect invisibility. They may also find the need 
for a cleric who can remove a curse. For guid 
ance in dealing with a party without some of 
these basic tools, see the Troubleshooting section 
at the end of Chapter One. 

This adventure is organized into chapters 
based on when, if ever, the PCs are likely to 
encounter each creature. Chapter One contains 
common creatures found near the edge of the 
forest and the illusions of them created by pix 
ies. Players should begin unraveling the mys 
tery during these encounters. Chapter Two 
contains creatures found deeper in the woods 
but they are generally irrelevant to the main 
plot. The PCs can pick up information here that 
can set them back on track, or make erroneous 
assumptions based on these diversions and go 
further astray. Chapter Three chronicles the per 
ils of the inner forest. If the party is alert and 
misses no key clues, it should never encounter 
these creatures. Chapter Four describes the pixie 
colony and the main characters in this adven 
ture. 

Tales of Enchantment has no mechanism built- 
in to keep the players on track. That is part of 
the problem for them to solve. They can go as 
far afield as their bad judgment takes them, but 
the farther afield they go, the more trouble they 
will find. The only way the party should face 
much combat is if the players blunder about. 
Therefore, reduce standard combat experience 
awards by 50% so as not to reward the players 
for making bad choices. The end of the adven 
ture calls for more advanced role-playing and 
some really clever problem-solving. The Resolu 
tion section of Chapter Four includes special 
awards for the end of the adventure. 


ISBN 0-56076-646-8 


9428XXX1501 










Plot Synopsis 



The mysteries and legends surrounding 
Whispering Widow Woods have always been 
enough to scare off the timid. The dense canopy 
shrouds the forest floor in darkness even at mid 
day, and the tangled underbrush inhibits travel 
and can disorient even seasoned woodsmen. 

Most folk who live nearby, however, feel safe 
enough if they keep near the trails through the 
outer reaches of the woods. They believe the sto 
ries about a dragon and other horrors, but they 
have no intention of going into the deepest and 
darkest parts of the forest. The locals use special 
care to steer clear of an unusual rock formation 
that gives the woods its name. Visible from 
some farms near the forest is a towering lime 
stone outcropping that some say looks like a 
face. Above and on both sides of the pale lime 
stone is a thin vein of dark stone much like a 
shroud. Trees cover the eerie hill's gentle eastern 
slope. When the wind is right and especially at 
night, neighboring farmers can hear what sounds 
like a widow's muted wails of grief. 

The folklore, eerie rock formations, and thick 
underbrush are plenty to keep locals on the 
trails near the edge of the forest where they can 
find sufficient firewood, mushrooms, and herbs 
and where the forest creatures never bother 
them-until recently. 

It started as a frightening curiosity. Terror 
ized residents described attacks by normally 
docile creatures, such as black bears. Then it 
grew more bizarre. Respected citizens told wild 
tales of unprovoked attacks by treants, sprites, 
and brownies. The last two curious souls to 
venture into Whispering Widow Woods have 
not returned. 

Other travelers have disappeared for days, 
eventually arriving at their destinations with no 
memory of what had delayed them. In fact, one 
stranger wandered out of the woods with no 
memory whatsoever; local authorities are still 
trying to learn his identity. 

In addition, reports of strange occurrences 
near the forest, a list of oddities dating back for 


years, suddenly grew more numerous and 
stranger. 

A shepherd named Patos complains that his 
flock increases by two or three when he's not 
looking and then returns to its normal size when 
he turns away again. He cannot tell the addi 
tional sheep from the regular ones, and he is 
afraid to take his eyes off his flock for fear of 
what will happen. 

A farmer named Jerube maintains that it has 
been raining on his fields for 22 days straight. 
No one believed him at first because the area 
has seen little rain in the last three weeks, but 
anyone traveling to his fields can see the steady 
downpour and the great pools of standing 
water. His crops have rotted. 

Patos, Jerube, and others have noted voices 
coming from Whispering Widow Woods. In 
every instance, they recognized the voice as that 
of a friend or family member. Those who fol 
lowed the voice into the forest found nothing, 
and several times the person hearing the voice 
knew the friend or family member to be else 
where, not in the forest. 

Jareb Klause, a wealthy landowner, has 
decided to hire the PCs to investigate these 
strange happenings. Jareb is particularly wor 
ried about his adolescent son, Barens. Barens 
has been showing youthful rebellion against his 
father by taking long trips away from the manor, 
sometimes disappearing for days. Some of these 
times, Barens has been seen entering Whisper 
ing Widow Woods, and his father is worried 
because Barens has been missing for two weeks. 
The PCs' mission is to learn the cause of the 
attacks, to find Barens, and to make the woods 
safe again. 

In fact, Barens is a central piece to this puzzle. 
On one of his brooding hikes, Barens unknow 
ingly passed near a colony of pixies. These pix 
ies had long succeeded in avoiding contact with 
humans and demihumans. However, Gwellen, a 
particularly curious and bold princess of the 
pixies, actually introduced herself to Barens 


2 


Plot Synopsis 



when he next passed that way. The two became 
close friends, developing quite a bond before 
the pixie king found out. 

The king, Ebron, reacted by creating illusions 
to frighten "large folk" from the forest. Gwellen 
told Barens about the illusions, protecting him 
but getting herself in trouble by leaving the 
pixie colony against Ebron's orders. She found it 
ever more difficult to get away to meet with 
Barens, and his trips into the forest became 
longer and longer. He even built himself a cabin 
to use as a base for his long walks in search of 
Gwellen. 

When Ebron learned that he had not suc 
ceeded in halting Gwellen's contacts with 
Barens, he grew angry and began a campaign of 
harassment against humans living near the for 
est and especially against Barens. Suddenly 
Barens found himself subjected to all manner of 
trickery, such as being potytnorphed, put to sleep, 
and led into confusion. Once, when lost, Barens 
happened upon a tribe of sylvan elves. After 
Barens explained his plight, the elves took pity 
on him. Though they did not want to confront 
the pixies directly, the elves gave Barens a 
charm that protects him from pixie magic. 
Barens, not wanting to tip off the pixies about 
his new defense, uses his cabin as a base in his 
searches for Gwellen, all the while pretending to 
fall victim to the pixies when they harass him. 

The PCs enter Whispering Widow Woods 
with no idea of the pixies' existence. All they 
have is a simple map drawn by Barens' father. 
He has not gone deep into the woods for a very 
long time and can only give the PCs an idea of 
what lies in the outer reaches of the forest. At 
the edges of the forest, they will meet normally 
benevolent creatures. One-third of the time they 
will encounter the actual creatures, and the rest 
of the time they will encounter the pixies' hos 
tile illusions of those creatures. When the PCs 
encounter the illusions, at least one pixie will be 
present creating the illusion. This gives the PCs 
a chance to discover the pixies and the source of 


the illusions. The PCs will also hear a voice call 
ing for Gwellen, a name that means nothing to 
them at first, deepening the mystery and pro 
viding a clue at the same time. These incidents 
are caused by pixies trying to lead the PCs 
astray in the belief that the party is trying to 
help Barens find Gwellen. The fact is, the PCs 
are much less informed than the pixies assume. 

Deeper into the woods, the PCs might 
encounter several kinds of diversions, includ 
ing forest creatures unrelated to the main plot, 
false trails created by the pixies, and even false 
images of Barens, who will gladly agree to 
leave the forest with the PCs. The PCs will 
probably recognize this as a ruse only when 
they take "Barens" back to his father. The PCs 
might also encounter the real Barens or the syl 
van elves, either of whom will aid them in solv 
ing the mystery. 

If the PCs stumble onto Barens' cabin, he will 
tell them exactly what is going on. As the PCs 
are trying to unravel the mystery, Gwellen is 
trying to convince her brother that her friend 
ship with Barens is good, that the "large folk" 
won't harm the pixies. 

Gwellen's mother, Lizbet, also has sympathy 
for her daughter but dares not openly defy her 
husband. Thus the PCs will have some passive 
allies when they try to find a resolution that is 
acceptable to all. Their ultimate success would 
be to find a way to unite Barens and Gwellen in 
some way acceptable to both Ebron and Jareb. 


3 




Jareb, Barens's father, gives the PCs a map 
he has drawn of the area (Player's Map). His 
knowledge of the area is limited because no one 
enters the deepest parts of the forest anymore. 
Also, unless the PCs remind Jareb, he forgets to 
give them a description of Barens (see encounter 
215 for a complete description). If Jareb is asked 
for a description of his son, he says Barens has 
long brown hair and usually wears a cap. 
Beyond that, he cannot remember what Barens 
was wearing when he last disappeared into the 
woods. 

Each hex on the map equals 50 yards, mean 
ing that careful listening might reveal sounds in 
a neighboring hex, but the thick undergrowth 
blocks sight for more than about 10 yards. 

From outside the forest, only a few features 
are visible. The most noteworthy is the "Whis 
pering Widow," an unusual, rocky hill that con 
sists of a limestone cliff resembling a face, 
shrouded with a thin layer of dark rock (303). 
The eerie wail that comes from this area of the 
forest reputedly comes from the face. Also visi 
ble from outside the forest are a series of low 
hills often covered with a curious green mist 
(305). The hills are rumored to be home to a 
dragon, but no one has claimed to have seen this 
creature for generations. 

Most of the outer forest consists of common 
animals and creatures that are not normally 
threatening to humans and demihumans. In 
each instance, however, the pixies have, under 
their king's orders, created illusions of these 
creatures that behave very aggressively toward 
any travelers. It is possible, and even likely, that 
the PCs will encounter both the real creatures 
and their illusions. 

The pixies have created the illusions to 
frighten off mortals, not to kill them, which 
may start a war in which many more mortals 
are tramping about the forest. To the PCs, the 
illusions are little more than a bother, since 
they should not be rewarded for killing such 
creatures, but the illusions are the first major 


clue for the PCs to begin solving the puzzle. 
There are one or more invisible pixies hiding 
near the scene of each illusion. When the PCs 
discover this, they will at least know what 
they're up against even if they still don't know 
why. 

In addition to the encounters in all the chap 
ters, there is a special encounter that can occur 
anywhere in the forest if one or two PCs get sep 
arated from the rest of the group. This also 
occurs if the party goes to sleep and leaves only 
one or two characters awake on guard. When 
either of these situations arises, a pixie will 
approach the PC more directly. The pixie 
approaches invisibly and, if undetected, touches 
the character to cause confusion. In addition, pix 
ies harass isolated PCs by making them sleep, by 
pohjmorphing them into outlandish creatures, 
and by stealing their memories. 

If the PCs seem overmatched or somehow at a 
severe disadvantage during this part of the 
adventure, see the Troubleshooting section at the 
end of this chapter. 

101. Black Bears 

Bears, black (2): AC 7; MV 12; HD 3+3; lip 16; 

THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg 1-3/1-3/1-6; SA hug 

2-8; AL N; ML 10; XP 85 

101a. These two black bears have long lived 
in this part of the forest. They learned to ignore 
travelers except to scavenge for food at camp 
sites after the travelers have gone. When the 
PCs encounter them anywhere within this 
area, these bears will first note the party curi 
ously and then lumber off into the woods. If 
the PCs attack, the bears try to avoid combat, 
fighting only if cornered. If the PCs encounter 
these bears after meeting the aggressive illu 
sionary bears of 101b or 101c, award them a 
bonus 50 XP if they do not attack the bears at 
first sight. 

101b, 101c. Created by pixies, these illusions 
are perfect copies of the black bears in 101a. The 


Outer Forest 



big difference is in their reaction to the PCs. 
When the PCs approach, the bears attack fero 
ciously, biting and clawing at the closest charac 
ters. Remember that the pixies' purpose is to 
frighten the PCs, not to kill them. If the PCs fig 
ure out that they are facing an illusion, they may 
look around for the source of it. Well-hidden, 
and also invisible, are two pixies. If any member 
of the party spots the pixies (10% chance each) 
and tries to approach them, they waste no time 
fleeing back toward their home (402). 

102. Giant Porcupine 

Porcupine, giant: AC 5; MV 6; HD 6; hp 32; 

THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; SA shoot quills; 

ALN; ML 16; XP 325 

102a. This large creature is doing what it does 
best-minding its own business. When the PCs 
encounter the creature anywhere within its area, 
the porcupine notes their presence with appar 
ent disinterest. If the PCs don't approach, the 
porcupine eventually waddles off into the 
woods. If the PCs do approach, the porcupine 
lets loose a few quills to discourage them from 
coming nearer. If the PCs encounter this prickly 
fellow after facing the images in 102b or 102c, 
award them 50 bonus XP if they do not attack 
this creature. 

102b, 102c. In each of these areas is a replica of 
the giant porcupine, but these images are cre 
ated by pixies to frighten off innocent travelers 
and meddlers like this party of adventurers. At 
first sight, the sluggish porcupine image mean 
ders closer to the PCs. After closing range a bit, 
it lowers its head and charges, firing quills on 
the run. The porcupine isn't trying to kill the 
party, he just wants to scare them enough to 
drive them out of the forest. If the PCs figure out 
that this is an illusion and seek its source, they 
may find a well-hidden and invisible pixie near 
the scene. If spotted (10% chance), the pixie flees 
toward his home (402). 


103. Werebear 

Werebear: AC 2; MV 9; HD 7+3; hp 32; THACO 
13; #AT 3; Dmg 1-3/1-3/2-8; SA hug 2-16; AL 
CG; ML 13; XP 700 

103a. This creature has nothing against 
humankind, but hasn't much use for it, either. 
When the PCs encounter it anywhere within the 
marked area, this lycanthrope assumes a defen 
sive posture but does not attack. It maintains 
this posture until the PCs leave. If the PCs stay 
too long, the werebear eventually leaves the 
area itself. Award the PCs 50 extra XP for stay 
ing out of combat, or 100 extra if they've already 
had to fight an illusory werebear. 

Treasure: 8 gp, 25 pp, two blue quartz gems 
worth 10 gp each, gold tiara inlaid with plat 
inum worth 2,200 gp, scroll of protection from 
lycanthropes, scrol l of protection from fire, scroll of 
protection from poison, un labeled potion of delu 
sion. 

103b, 103c. These pixie-built horrors are exact 
copies of the original. Their sole purpose is to 
chase away the PCs. The pixie controlling this 
illusion will do his best to injure the party mem 
bers, but he is careful not to kill anyone. If the 
PCs figure out this illusion and search for its 
source, they may be able to find the invisible 
pixie (10% chance), who is well-hidden but close 
enough to monitor all the action. If discovered, 
the pixie flees to his home (402). 

104. Unicorns 

Unicorns (4): AC 2; MV 24; HD 4+4; hp 24; 
THACO 15; #AT 3; Dmg 1-6/1-6/1-12; SA 
charge; AL CG; ML 14; XP 325 
104a. These four unicorns are named Draylee, 
Naylon, Frankon, and Naymidmerelda. They 
have come to dominate this area of the forest (as 
shown on the map). At one time, folk from out 
side the woods often trampled the nearby region 
of forest that is rich in herbs. A few pointed 
lessons by the unicorns persuaded the intruders 


5 



to pay closer attention to the ecosystem, and 
everything has been fine ever since. When the 
PCs encounter them, the unicorns will be 
friendly but firm in their message that the party 
should stay off the unicorns' turf. If the PCs dis 
regard these warnings, the unicorns will fight. 

Treasure: potion of flying, potion of green dragon 
control. 

104b, 104c. There can be few things that cause 
more panic than seeing one rogue unicorn bear 
ing down on you at full gallop, much less four 
of them. With a troublesome pixie holding the 
imaginary reins, these mighty steeds can throw 
a fright into any band of adventurers, or so the 
pixies hope. The most difficult task may be 
keeping the illusion convincing without killing 
any of the PCs. If the players figure out that they 
are facing an illusion, they may be able to spot 
the pixie causing it, though she is hidden and 



invisible. If seen (10% chance), she will flee to 
her home (402). 

105. Treants 

Treants (8): AC 0; MV 12; HD 11; hp 64; THAC0 
9; #AT 2; Dmg 4-24/4-24; SA control 1 or 2 
trees; AL CG; ML 16; XP 6,500 
105a. These eight treants have led a peaceful 
existence, rarely bothered by any other crea 
ture and never threatened. If the PCs pass by 
this way, the treants will make their presence 
known and then douse any torches the party 
may be carrying. Otherwise, the treants place 
themselves in a defensive formation and herd 
the PCs away from their lair. As long as the 
PCs remain friendly, the treants will be help 
ful, though not eager for the party to hang 
around. 


6 





Treasure: Two black onyx gems worth 100 gp 
each, four amethysts worth 500 gp each, potion 
of fire resistance (x2). 

105b, 105c. As the PCs walk along a trail, they 
are suddenly ambushed from both sides. These 
illusionary treants will do their best to subdue 
the party, but the pixie controlling them will 
avoid mortal combat. His ultimate aim is to see 
the PCs drag themselves away from this scene 
and out of Whispering Widow Woods. If the 
PCs see through the illusion, they might be able 
to find the pixie (10% chance), once again hid 
den and invisible. If he's seen, he'll make a 
break for home (402). 

106. Brownies 

Brownies (12): AC 3; MV 12; HD 14; hp 3; 

THAC0: 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3 or by weapon; SA 

spells; AL LG; ML 11; XP 85 

106a. This band of brownies has been known 
to help many a traveler who found more trou 
ble than he could handle in Whispering Widow 
Woods. They are not only friendly with "large 
folk" from outside the forest but with most all 
the forest creatures as well. When the PCs 
encounter the brownies anywhere within the 
marked area, the creatures will be friendly as 
usual. They know that the pixies are trying to 
scare away "large folk" and they disapprove, 
though they would never actually fight with 
the pixies. 

The PCs can find a great deal of help here. The 
brownies willingly tell them what the pixies 
have been doing, though the brownies don't 
know why. The brownies can also act as guides, 
taking the PCs directly to the pixies' home or to 
most other lairs, avoiding the illusions and the 
false trails. The brownies know nothing of 
Barens or Gwellen. If confronted by pixies on 
this journey, the brownie guides will quickly 
disappear into the forest, leaving the PCs on 
their own again. The leader of this band of 
brownies is named Graham. 


Treasure: 24 cp, 80 sp, 5 pp, black sapphire 
worth 5,000 gp. 

106b, 106c. Attacked by a pack of rabid 
brownies? Who's going to believe that? Even 
though the PCs may have heard stories about 
attacks by brownies, the PCs will probably be 
friendly when they encounter these. With a mis 
chief-loving pixie orchestrating the brownies' 
moves, the PCs won't be friendly for long. Such 
an attack is bound to cause as much psychologi 
cal damage as physical damage, for the PCs 
must stop and wonder what sort of topsy-turvy 
forest this must be. Just such disbelief may be 
what allows the party to see through the illu 
sion, in which case one of the party members 
may spot the invisible pixie (10% chance) cavort 
ing among his imaginary big brothers. The pixie 
will not stay around long, however, heading for 
home (402) as soon as the illusion is broken. 

107. Sprites 

Sprites (28): AC 6; MV 9/18; HD 1; hp 4; THAC0 

19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA sleep arrows; 

ALNG; ML 11; XP 210 

107a. This band of 28 sprites once lived in 
peace and happiness. "Large folk" from outside 
the forest occasionally passed by, and the sprites 
sometimes met other forest creatures, but their 
existence was one of harmony with the world. 
The recent upheaval by the pixies has caused 
the sprites to be even more shy and withdrawn 
than usual. They understand that the pixies are 
the cause of the trouble, making even the nearby 
unicorns grumpy and bringing armed bands 
like this party of adventurers into the forest. The 
sprites are very wary of the PCs, but if the party 
can gain their confidence, they will place all the 
blame on the pixies. They can give the PCs the 
general location of the pixie colony, but they 
know nothing more and are too withdrawn to 
be of any more help. The leader of the band is 
Mayella, but none of the other sprites are will 
ing to give their names. 


Outer Forest 



Treasure: 4,000 sp, staff of the woodlands, gem of 
insight. 

107b, 107c. If the PCs have the bad luck of 
happening onto one of the illusionary bands of 
sprites, the pixie creating the image will execute 
an ambush. The helpless party will find itself 
the target of a myriad of tiny arrows flying from 
underbrush teeming with sprites. The illusion 
ary sprites transport the PCs back outside the 
forest to wake and wonder at how they arrived. 
If the PCs manage to avoid this barrage and 
break the illusion, they have a chance to find the 
pixie (10% chance), who once again is both hid 
den and invisible. If spotted, she quickly flees 
for home (402). 

108. Pegasus 

Pegasus: AC 6; MV 24/48; HD 4; hp 31; THAC0 
17; #AT 3; Dmg 1-8/1-8/1-3; SA dive, rear 
kick; ALCG;ML 11; XP 85 
108a. This beautiful beast is somewhat curi 
ous about the PCs and will study them from a 
distance. If the PCs approach, the pegasus will 
be skittish, flying off a bit to maintain its dis 
tance. If attacked by neutral or good characters, 
the pegasus will flee. If attacked by evil charac 
ters, the pegasus will fight. 

108b, 108c. These illusions of pegasi act very 
aggressively as the pixies creating the illusions 
attempt to frighten the party out of the woods. If 
the PCs recognize this as strange behavior and 
break the illusion, they may be able to spot the 
three hidden and invisible pixies (10% chance 
each), who retreat home (402) as soon as they 
are spotted. 

109. Traveler 

Human (F0): AC 9; MV 12; hp 4; #AT 1; Dmg by 
weapon; Str 11, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 8, Wis, 9, 
Cha 11; AL NG; THAC0 20 
This human is a short man with crudely cut 
blond hair. His clothes are old and rumpled and 


he wears no shoes. He carries a few silver pieces 
in his pocket. The human's name and other 
characteristics are unknown because of memory 
loss. 

At several places in Whispering Widow 
Woods, the PCs may encounter a traveler who 
has fallen victim to the pixies. The pixies have 
used three of their favorite tricks, namely sleep, 
confusion, and memory loss. The poor traveler sits 
on a rock rubbing his sleepy eyes and scratching 
his confused head. The appearance of the PCs 
offers some hope, and he greets them enthusias 
tically. Of course, he cannot remember how he 
got this way or where he is from. 

The only thing the PCs can do to help this 
poor fellow is to use a remove curse spell to end 
his confusion or a heal or limited wish to bring 
back his memory. He is still pretty vague about 
what happened to him. He did not see the invis 
ible pixie. About all he can do is tell the PCs 
where he is from (somewhere distant, because 
he was not reported missing locally) and where 
he was going. It matters little whether he sets 
out alone again or asks to join the party, as he is 
of little use for providing information or for 
other purposes. 

This encounter can provide the PCs with fur 
ther hints about what they are up against and, 
more importantly, to warn them about what 
they might expect to happen if they venture off 
alone. 

110. Voices 

Hexes containing the number 110, either indi 
vidually or arranged in rows, indicate places, 
usually along a trail, where a pixie calls out 
from a distance, trying to beckon the PCs in an 
adjacent hex to follow or, even better, to beckon 
only one or two of the PCs to follow. 

In all such locations, the pixie speaks in 
Barens' voice and calls out the name Gwellen, 
for the pixies certainly know of this longing and 
suspect that somebody may be searching for 


8 


Outer Forest 



Barens since he has been gone so long. The play 
ers may not know the significance of the name 
Gwellen, and their characters probably will not 
recognize Barens' voice since they've never met 
him. An unknown name, heard from afar, adds 
to the romance of the mystery, and the players 
should eventually figure out the connection. 

If the PCs follow in a group, the pixie just 
keeps leading them farther away, to the end of 
the string of 110s. If only one or two PCs follow, 
the pixie will look for an opportunity to circle 
back and cause mischief, primarily with his 
cause confusion touch. 

Troubleshooting 

The main things that can go wrong in the 
outer forest is that the PCs might do too well or 
too poorly. 

It is highly probable that the PCs will learn 
that some of their encounters are illusions. 
They should also deduce that a single force is 
causing the illusions to scare people out of the 
forest. This is essential. If the PCs push ahead 
without breaking an illusion and without 
learning about the pixies through the other 
clues, they are doomed to blunder about for 
some time. In this case, it is probably best to 
reposition encounter 215 (Fake Barens) in their 
path. This should make them pause and think 
about what's going on. 

Another problem that could arise is if the 
party has no way to detect invisibility. If the char 
acters have the capability and simply don't use 
it, that's fine because there's plenty of time to 
find out about the pixies. If the PCs can never 
see the pixies, however, they're going to have a 
difficult time negotiating with them. Be aware 
of the problem and be ready to drop the proper 
item into a treasure hoard or give a ring of see 
invisible to a wandering goblin or other likely 
victim. 

More problematic is what happens if the PCs 
not only spot a pixie creating an illusion but 


actually capture him or, worse, kill him. If the 
PCs kill a pixie, they must make several quick 
decisions correctly while they probably still 
don't know what's going on. First of all, they 
must conceal this act. They must dispose of the 
body and proceed with the adventure and act as 
if nothing happened. This is unreasonable to 
expect. Once Ebron learns of the death, the best 
the PCs can hope for is to rescue Barens from 
certain death and declare the forest off limits for 
the next decade or so. They would deserve some 
credit for rescuing Barens, but any other XP 
awards should certainly be lost because of the 
problems they created. 

Capturing a pixie is not quite as irredeemable 
as killing one. The pixie will not cooperate with 
the PCs, of course. Holding it captive may seem 
to have no purpose, and it is always a danger 
because of its powers. Releasing the pixie, how 
ever, presents an even bigger problem. It will 
return to Ebron long before the PCs ever get 
there, and when Ebron learns of the PCs' actions, 
he will figure out their motives and concentrate 
all harassment powers directly against them 
wherever they go. No longer content to create 
illusions in the hopes of frightening mortal trav 
elers, Ebron will order his band to take more 
direct action against the PCs, using all their 
powers, such as polymorph, sleep, and cause con 
fusion. He will also make it impossible for 
Gwellen or her allies to ever contact the PCs. If 
the PCs persevere in spite of all this, Ebron will 
still consider them adversaries during the final 
negotiations. It would have been much better to 
have kept the pixie captive, no matter how cruel 
that may seem. 


9 



[ 


Chapter Two: Diversions 


i 


The encounters in the first chapter gave the 
party clues to the nature of the adventure and 
perhaps what to do next, but most of the encoun 
ters in this chapter are purely diversions. Most 
are simply irrelevant to the plot, but some could 
help clear things up for a confused party and 
others could provide false leads to test a party 
further. 

The Dungeon Master should feel free to 
change these locations during the adventure as 
necessary to either increase the challenge for a 
party that has been having too much good luck 
or to provide clues or other help to a party that 
seems hopelessly on the wrong track. This is 
especially the case with encounters 215 and 216 
(meeting either the real Barens or the false one). 

201. Giant Weasels 

Weasels, giant (8): AC 6; MV 15; HD 3+3; hp 17; 

THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2-12; SA blood drain; 

AL N; ML 10; XP 85 

This family of giant weasels usually sustains 
itself by scouring the forest for small creatures. 
But when food gets low, these weasels some 
times prey on human travelers passing through 
Whispering Widow Woods. Knowing this, the 
pixies set a trap by creating voices to lure travel 
ers off the trail and into the weasels' lair. Usu 
ally the travelers are able to escape with their 
lives and tell others about the voice. Sometimes 
the weasels catch the humans unaware and 
have a feast for a week. 

When the PCs encounter the weasels, the 
creatures automatically have a hostile reaction 
and receive a -1 modifier to their Surprise roll. 
They can hear the party coming and they stalk 
their prey. 

Since the voice that led the PCs here was the 
creation of a pixie, the party will not be able to 
find its source. The pixie is curious, however, 
and waits around briefly to see the result of the 
encounter with the weasels. If a PC can detect 
invisible and specifically looks for someone or 


something immediately after the weasel en 
counter ends, he might (10% chance) catch a 
glimpse of the pixie before it slips off to its home 
(402). 

202. Giant Spider 

Spider, giant: AC 4; MV 3 (Web 12); HD 4+4; hp 

26; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; SA poison; AL 

CE; ML 13; XP 325 

This abomination has spun a beautiful web 
between trees at ground level, and it sits high in 
a tree ready to drop onto its prey. The spider 
prefers to have its victim temporarily immobi 
lized by the web, but it will also attack humans 
and others who are smart enough to stay out of 
the web. 

Perhaps as a tactic but more likely by acci 
dent, the spider has left its treasure pile only 
partially concealed. The greedy traveler who 
acts on impulse will find the spider's sticky 
webbing clinging to everything in the pile. 

This spider is not too intelligent, and it will 
attack even an obviously superior force. 

Treasure: 2,000 sp, set of six gold-leaf goblets 
worth 100 gp each. 

203. Giant Ticks 

Ticks, giant (9): AC 3; MV 3; HD 3; hp 10; 

THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4; SA blood drain; 

AL N; ML 9; XP 60 

Waiting in low-hanging branches for any 
warm-blooded creature to pass by are a cluster of 
nine giant ticks. After dropping on its prey and 
achieving its first hit, each tick drains 1-6 points 
of blood until it reaches 10 (its own hit points), 
which is its satiation point, and it drops off. 

To detach a tick before it reaches its satiation 
point, one must immerse it in water, burn it, or 
kill it. Once a tick has begun to drain blood, its 
victim has a 50% chance of contracting a fatal 
disease. The disease is fatal within 2-8 days 
unless a cure disease spell is used. 


10 


Diversions 



Knowing the mindless ticks will drop onto 
any passerby, the pixies use false voices to lure 
"large folk" to this menace and, they hope, to 
prove the forest is too dangerous and frighten 
them into leaving. 

204. Sylvan Elves 

Elves, wood (29): AC 5; MV 12; HD 1+1; hp 5; 
THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA +1 to 
hit; AL CG; ML 13; XP 210 
Tretorn, a 4th level fighter (Str 16, Dex 17, Con 
11, Int 15, Wis 8, Cha 15), heads this band of 28 
sylvan elves. He stands just over 5 feet tall, 
which makes him unusually tall for an elf. He 
has long brown hair which he neatly pulls back 
and ties with colored string. His clothing is 
always spotless and matched carefully. His 
fussiness about his appearance is a source of 
humor for his band of elves, though none would 
dare mock him to his face. 

Though Tretorn may initially seem pompous 
and aloof, he is a trustworthy and loyal elf. If the 
PCs converse with him long enough, they will 
discover that Tretorn's manner is to compensate 
for his insecurities. 

Tretorn always carries Virtue, an intelligent 
sword +3. Virtue's characteristics and abilities are 
Int 17, AL CG, primary abilities to detect evil or 
detect good in a 10> radius, to locate object in a 
120> radius, and detect invisible objects in a 10> 
radius, extraordinary power to cast one unique 
spell (of the sword's choice and design) per 
week, the special purpose of helping the under 
dog, the ability to communicate telepathically 
with its owner, the ability to speak lammasu, 
and the ability to read magic. Virtue's ego of 18 
makes a close contest in the case of a personality 
conflict between the sword and Tretorn, but this 
has not produced a problem between them for 
many years. 

Because Tretorn and Virtue have the same 
alignment, they have never had widely diver 
gent viewpoints or plans of action. Tretorn was 


occasionally bothered, however, when Virtue 
seemed to seek glory for itself and belittle Tre 
torn, especially in front of his elven band. Virtue 
resents personality conflicts when its special 
purpose, helping the underdog, is at stake. And 
so the two have come to an understanding that 
when there is an issue of helping an underdog at 
hand, Tretorn will become passive and let Virtue 
hold sway without a contest. In return. Virtue 
will help Tretorn stand tall before his subjects, 
taking full credit for powers and achievements 
he could not have aspired to without Virtue's 
help. No one else knows about this, of course, 
especially Tretorn's band. 

The rest of the band consists of 1st level elves. 
Three elves carry swords, one carries a sword 
and spear, seven carry spears, one carries a 
sword and a bow, and the other 15 carry bows. 
In addition to the 28 adults, there are three elf 
children, all younger than age 10. 

The elves have befriended a pride of giant 
lynxes (212) and a flock of giant owls (215). If 
the elves ever feel threatened, they can summon 
these allies on short notice. By the same token, 
any party that has visited either the lynxes or 
owls could never surprise the elves as those ani 
mals act as an early warning for Tretorn's band. 
Any party that has fought with the owls or 
lynxes can expect an automatic hostile reception 
upon encountering the elves. 

During his wanderings and search for 
Gwellen, Barens encountered these elves several 
times. As kindred spirits of the forest, Barens 
and Tretorn became good friends. The elves 
admired Barens for his stubborn refusal to give 
up his love in the face of the pixie harassment 
campaign. As a matter of fact, Virtue readily rec 
ognized Barens as the underdog when the pixies 
unleashed all their tricks against him, and the 
sword created one of its unique spells to help 
him. With Tretorn smiling his approval. Virtue 
touched Barens on each shoulder and conferred 
upon him absolute immunity to pixie magic and 
mischief. To help maintain the effectiveness of 


11 




the spell, Tretorn gave Barens a small charm in 
the exact shape of Virtue. As long as Barens has 
the charm and it remains intact, he will be pro 
tected. He cannot transfer the effects of the 
charm to anyone else because Virtue gave only 
him the immunity. If he lets anyone know he 
has the charm, its effectiveness immediately dis 
appears. Barens has used this gift wisely (see 
Barens's Cabin, 401, for details). 

Unless the PCs have earned a more hostile 
reaction, the elves will be friendly but cautious 
toward them. Knowing of all the pixies' shenani 
gans, the elves suspect the PCs may be some 
kind of pixie trick. There are a few ways the PCs 
might try to gain the elves' friendship. They 
could try to persuade the elves that they have 
Barens' best interests at heart, though the elves 
will still suspect a pixie trick. The PCs could 
overcome this with details about Jareb or details 


about Barens' past, offering information that the 
pixies wouldn't have. The PCs might also 
describe an encounter with the pixies, though 
they would have to be very persuasive (or pro 
duce a captive pixie, for instance) to shake the 
elves' suspicion. Probably the best thing the PCs 
could do would be to disclose their mission but 
profess ignorance of all the events of the forest 
(the ignorance could be real, of course), such as 
the pixies' scare campaign. In this case, the elves 
would quickly recognize the PCs as underdogs 
and try to help them. 

Though the elves sympathize with Barens and 
dislike what the pixies are doing, they would 
not dare to oppose the pixies directly. If the PCs 
can win the elves' confidence, Tretorn will tell 
them what he knows of the situation, such as 
Barens's and Gwellen's love, the pixies' harass 
ment of Barens and their forbidding Gwellen to 


12 




Diversions 



see him, and their campaign to scare other 
"large folk" out of the forest. Tretorn will direct 
the PCs to Barens's cabin, but he will not guide 
them there and he will not mention Virtue's spe 
cial gift to Barens. 

Treasure: 10,000 gp, four ebony statuettes of 
lammasu each worth 2,000 gp, potion of plant 
control, potion of speed, potion of levitation, potion of 
extra-healing, potion of animal control (2), scroll of 
protection from elemental, scroll of protection from 
dragon breath. 

205. Satyrs 

Satyrs (5): AC 5; MV 18; HD 5; hp 18; THAC0 

15; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8 or by weapon; SA pipes; 

AL N; ML 13; XP 475 

This colony of five satyrs gets along with 
most all other residents of Whispering Widow 
Woods. Their fun-loving lifestyle is infectious, 
and other creatures consider the satyrs either as 
friends or as harmless ne'er-do-wells. The satyrs 
have no natural enemies. 

This group knows what's going on in the for 
est, in a general way at least. They don't know 
the particulars of the romance between Barens 
and Gwellen, but they know something has the 
pixies mighty upset. For their part, the satyrs 
could not care less. They care only if they hear of 
a threat to their friends the centaurs (213) or 
their mates, the dryads (207). 

The satyrs' response to any approach by the 
PCs will be for the leader to play his pipes. If 
there is an attractive female (Cha 15+) in the 
party, he will play to charm her. Otherwise, his 
action depends on the PCs' approach. If the 
satyr thinks they're friendly, he'll try to put 
them to sleep, then steal all their valuables. If the 
satyr thinks the PCs are hostile, he'll try to make 
his pipes cause fear and drive them away. 

In any case, the PCs will find the satyrs to be 
of little help, and if the PCs start trouble, they 
could find themselves in trouble with most of 
the other forest creatures as well. If the PCs 


encounter the satyrs and avoid having combat 
with them, award the party a bonus of 200 XP. 

Treasure: Six tiger eye agates worth 10 gp 
each, three topaz gems worth 500 gp each, pipes 
of sounding, philter of love (10). 

206. Leprechaun 

Leprechaun: AC 8; MV 15; HD 1; hp 3; THAC0 

20; #AT 0; Dmg Nil; SA spells; AL N; ML 11; 

XP 135 

This forest is full of enough mischief, but this 
little guy is in the midst of it and doesn't seem to 
care. This leprechaun, Rollin Dougherty, cares 
nothing about Barens, Gwellen, and the pixies' 
campaign to scare off the "large folk." All this 
means to Rollin is fewer victims to rob. 

The PCs will find Rollin perched up on a tree 
limb, fast asleep and snoring. He is an old lep 
rechaun. His hair underneath a round brown 
hat is tinged with white. His raggedy brown 
clothes are clean, however. A shiny gold belt cir 
cles his waist and is only barely visible behind 
the bag he clutches. He wears dirty black shoes. 
Even in his sleep he appears to be tightly clutch 
ing a knotted bag made of twine. Through the 
holes in the bag the PCs can see glittering bits of 
shiny gold. Rollin is not actually sleeping, but is 
trying to lure the PCs into a trap. 

If the PCs call out to the leprechaun to try to 
wake him, Rollin opens one eye and peers at 
them cautiously. At first he pretends to be a 
pixie and offers his services in countering the 
pixies. Rollin slowly works his way into the 
party's confidence. 

When he sees a good opportunity, Rollin lures 
the party over to the tree where his trap has 
been laid. Then he springs his rope trap and the 
party is scooped up in a huge net. Rollin 
snatches whatever he can of value, turns invisi 
ble, and scampers off into the woods. 

If the PCs try to sneak up on Rollin as he sup 
posedly naps, they will be caught in the rope 
trap immediately and robbed. They cannot sur- 


13 


Diversions 



prise him in any way. If the PCs have no appro 
priate magical items, escape from the rope trap 
takes at least three rounds. 

Rollin is no help to the party. He only causes 
grief. He will do anything to prevent the PCs 
from finding his lair if they somehow manage to 
follow him. 

Treasure: 5,000 gp, gold belt worth 500 gp. 

207. Dryads 

Dryads (3): AC 9; MV 12; HD 2; hp 9; THAC0 

16; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4; SA charm; AL N; ML 12; 

XP 475 

These three maids live near each other and 
may be sisters. They are usually most secretive 
and would never be seen by a party of travel 
ers. Lately, however, one of the three, named 
Vitae, has come into the open and greeted sev 
eral humans and demihumans passing nearby. 
She tells them she knows all about what the 
pixies are doing and she wants to help the trav 
elers. 

Vitae is clothed in a simple, fine white dress 
that glimmers with a pearly sheen. Her long, 
white hair cascades down her back and reaches 
the hem of her dress which extends just below 
her knees. She is quite beautiful and will 
respond in a very friendly manner to anyone 
with high Charisma (15+). 

As the other two dryads try to keep Vitae 
from becoming involved, she ignores their 
pleas and offers aid to the party. All is not as it 
seems, though. Vitae, like Gwellen, was quite 
smitten by Barens as he passed one day. Barens, 
however, was already in love with Gw'ellen, 
and he resisted Vitae's charms effortlessly. 
Incensed, she enlisted the aid of all the trees in 
the forest to find out why and how Barens 
eluded her. 

Now Vitae comes forward to offer her aid to 
passers-by in the hope that she can trick them 
into helping her. She willingly tells everything 
she knows about the romance between Barens 


and Gwellen, but her solution to the problem is 
much different from Ebron's. Vitae is plotting to 
get rid of Gwellen or to destroy Barens's love for 
her; either will do. She gives the party a com 
plete description of Gwellen so they can kill her 
or force her to give up Barens. Vitae stresses that 
none of this is Barens's fault, so simply tying 
him up and removing him from the forest is not 
a good solution-at least not for Vitae. 

Vitae describes Gwellen as being about 2 feet 
tall. She usually wears a pale blue or pale green 
dress that seems to be made of an almost weight 
less material. Her long red hair is always 
braided behind her and is tied with flower 
stems. Around her neck she wears a fine gold 
chain from which hangs a tiny heart charm. 
Barens had given her the charm at their second 
meeting and she has not taken it off since. How 
ever, since her father discovered her involve 
ment with Barens, the charm has somehow 
cracked. Vitae has seen the charm, but does not 
know its significance. 

Although Gwellen is beautiful. Vitae natu 
rally describes her as being quite plain. She 
complains about the horrid color of Gwellen's 
hair and criticizes the way she "ties it up so 
funny with flowers and whatever else she finds 
in the forest." 

Treasure: 300 gp, 20 garnets worth 300 gp 
each. 


208. Ankheg 

Ankheg: AC 2 (underside 4); MV 12; HD ld6+2; 
hp 16; THAC0 16; #AT 1; Dmg 3-18 (crush) + 
1-4 (acid); SA squirt acid; AL N; ML 9; XP 300 
This horrid bug is simply lying in wait for its 
next meal. Buried with only its antennae stick 
ing above the earth, the ankheg is very difficult 
to detect. As the innocent traveler passes over, 
the ankheg bursts from its underground hiding 
place to crush its victim in its powerful pincers. 
Treasure: 3,000 sp. 


14 


Diversions 


¦> 


209. Giant Ants 

Ants, giant (146): AC 3; MV 18; HD 2 (worker), 3 
(warrior), 10 (queen); hp 8 (worker), 14 (war 
rior), 47 (queen); THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 
(worker), 2-8 (warrior), 0 (queen); SA poison 
sting (warrior); AL N; ML 9; XP 15 (worker), 
85 (warrior), 0 (queen) 

As the party approaches this area, the PCs 
notice unusual movement amid the underbrush. 
Upon closer examination, they will find 20 
worker ants going about their business of gath 
ering food. There are four anthills in the immedi 
ate area. There are 100 more workers, 25 warriors, 
and the queen in the ants' tunnels below the 
anthills. 

If the party is reasonably careful, the PCs can 
continue on their way without disturbing the 
ants. The ants will fight, however, if combat- 
minded PCs are determined to get their weap 
ons bloody. 

If the PCs manage to kill the queen, the other 
ants become confused for six rounds and then 
leave the nest. 

Treasure: Six jasper gems worth 50 gp each, 
potion labeled polymorph self (actually poison), 
potion of diminution, potion of gaseous form. 

210. Bombardier Beetles 

Beetles, bombardier (6): AC 4; MV 9; HD 2+2; 
hp 10; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 2-12; SA acid 
cloud; AL N, ML 13; XP 60 
The party can smell these beetles before it sees 
them. Six of these huge insects have chosen the 
same parcel of forest to build their nests. Each 
has accumulated a prodigious pile of waste in 
which to lay its eggs. All seem intent on tasks 
comprehensible only to other insects and seem 
oblivious to the party of PCs marching forward 
with noses held. The PCs can easily skirt the bee 
tles' stomping ground and continue onward, but 
they suffer a -2 penalty to their surprise rolls for 
the next two hours because of the stench. 


211. Giant Lynxes 

Lynxes, giant (4): AC 6; MV 12; HD 2+2; hp 14; 

THACO 19; #AT 3; Dmg 1-2/1-2/1-4; SA rear 

claws 1-3 each; AL N; ML 9; XP 135 

These four giant lynxes pose no threat to man, 
unless that man appears to be a threat to their 
friends, the sylvan elves (204). These intelligent 
cats prey on small mammals in the area as they 
act as the eyes and ears of the elves. 

As the PCs approach, the lynxes watch cau 
tiously and curiously, but from a distance. The 
lynxes will not interfere with the PCs in any 
way. Only if the PCs appear to be headed for the 
elves will the cats race to warn their friends and 
masters. 

Only a truly determined party could force 
combat with these cats, and only a very talented 
party could befriend them to a point where they 
would be of some use. If the PCs do manage to 
find a way to fight with the lynxes, it severely 
damages their chances to deal with the elves. 

212. Centaurs 

Centaurs (6): AC 5; MV 18; HD 4; hp 18; THACO 

17; #AT 3; Dmg 1-6/1-6/by weapon; SA Nil; 

AL CG; ML 13; XP 100 

Six sylvan centaurs live in this part of Whis 
pering Widow Woods. They are on especially 
good terms with the satyrs (205) and the wood 
elves (204). Four of them carry bows and two 
carry lances. 

When the PCs encounter them, the centaurs 
are extremely cautious and not particularly 
friendly. The centaurs inform the party that 
humans aren't welcome in this part of the 
woods. Though firm in their resolve to get rid of 
the PCs, the centaurs will be civil, and they will 
ingly give out bits of information if that means 
the PCs will leave. 

The PCs must be very polite and self-effacing 
here if they expect to gain anything from this 
encounter. If the PCs are the least bit aggressive 


15 


Diversions 



or disagreeable, the centaurs won't hesitate to 
give them a fight. 

Treasure: 6 gp, three topaz gems worth 500 gp 
each. 

213. Giant Hornet 

Hornet, giant: AC 2; MV 6/24; HD 5; lip 30; 
THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4; SA poison and 
paralysis; AL N; ML 10; XP 325 
This nasty insect buzzes through the forest 
looking for its next victim. A careful party 
should be able to hear its buzzing from 50 yards 
(1 hex) away and steer clear of it. If the PCs are 
foolish enough to investigate the buzzing, how 
ever, they are likely to have a fight on their 
hands because the hornet can fly much faster 
than they can run away. 

214. Giant Owls 

Owls, giant (2): AC 6; MV 3/18; HD 4; lip 17; 
THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg 2-S/2-8/2-5; SA sur 
prise; AL N; ML 12; XP 135 
This mated pair of owls acts as a warning sys 
tem for their friends, the elves (204). The owls 
are adept at getting out of trouble, but the elves 
would surely come to their aid if needed. 

The owls will be friendly and curious, but 
cautious toward the PCs. If the PCs are aggres 
sive, the owls will simply fly away unless the 
PCs threaten their nest, in which case they will 
fight furiously. If the PCs win the owls' confi 
dence, the owls will lead them to the elven band 
at encounter 204. 

Treasure: Three eggs, three egg-shaped 
rhodochrosite gems worth 10 gp each, five egg- 
shaped pieces of dark green jade worth 100 gp 
each, potion of ventriloquism, unlabeled potion of 
water breathing. 


215. Fake Barens 

Barens (F0): AC 8; MV 12; ITD 1; hp 4; THACO 

20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8 (double-bladed axe); SA 

Nil; AL NG; ML 10; XP 15 

At several locations in the forest, Ebroch, 
Gwellen's brother, has polymorphed himself to 
look exactly like Barens and imitate Barens's 
voice perfectly. He can imitate Barens's manner 
isms to some extent but totally lacks knowledge 
of Barens's background and personality. Thus, 
he looks, sounds, and even acts like Barens, but 
would have no idea what Barens's father's 
name is, for example. Ebroch hasn't told 
Gwellen of his efforts to get rid of the PCs so she 
can honestly tell her father she knows nothing 
about it. 

Barens is a handsome young man about 20 
years old. He has shoulder-length brown hair 
which he keeps out of his eyes by tucking it in a 
cloth cap or headband that he ties around his 
forehead. He wears a white shirt and brown 
leather trousers. He has crude brown, leather 
shoes that are scuffed. He carries an axe with 
him not only to use in the forest, but to defend 
himself against dangerous creatures. 

When encountered by the PCs, the ersatz 
Barens acts out his part to the best of Ebroch's 
ability. He willingly tells the PCs his name is 
Barens, but he acts cautiously toward them at 
first. This is a ruse, of course, because Ebroch is 
trying his best to gain the PCs' confidence. 

This false Barens openly discusses his love for 
Gwellen, admitting that she is the reason he has 
been staying in the forest. He puts a false twist 
on events, however, professing to be depressed 
about the difficulties he and Gwellen face, such 
as different cultures, different sizes, obstacles 
placed by the rest of the pixies, and so forth. 
What Ebroch is trying to do is get the PCs to 
coax Barens out of the forest. As a result, the 
search party would leave the forest thinking 
they have succeeded in their mission because 
they have Barens by their side. 


16 



17 



































































Diversions 




If this all happens according to the pixie's 
plan, this false Barens will accompany the PCs 
all the way back to Jareb's manor. The only rea 
son that this can work is because the PCs don't 
know Barens personally. Ebroch knows he won't 
be able to fool Barens's family for long, so after 
initial greetings, Barens pleads fatigue and 
excuses himself to take a nap before dinner. Not 
even knowing the way to Barens's bedroom, the 
pixie acts as soon as he is out of sight of the oth 
ers. He quickly drops the Barens guise, changes 
back to a pixie, becomes invisible, and heads 
back for the forest. Ebroch hopes that Barens's 
family won't go searching for him again, at least 
not right away. 

If the PCs have somehow already encoun 
tered Gwellen, she will have told them about 
the heart charm that Barens gave her. If she is 
with them when they encounter the false Barens, 
she will insist that he is an impostor. She has no 
proof he is a fake, except that she insists that her 
cracked heart charm would heal itself if she 
found him again. Ebroch has not told Gwellen 
of his plan to protect the real Barens and to help 
her, and he will not admit that he is an impostor, 
even to his sister. 

The PCs may realize that Gwellen could help 
them by testing Barens's knowledge of his 
romance with the pixie. If they suspect that 
something is odd about this Barens, Gwellen 
will cooperate by asking him intimate details of 
their relationship that only those two could 
know. 

216. Barens 

Barens (FO): AC 8; MV 12; HD 1; hp 4; THACO 

20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8 (double-bladed axe); SA 

Nil; AL NG; ML 10; XP 15 

Barens spends most of his time searching for 
Gwellen. Since Ebron has forbidden Gwellen 
from seeing Barens, this means Barens spends 
more and more time wandering through the for 
est. When the PCs encounter the young man. 


Barens will be friendly but cautious. See en 
counter 215 for a description of Barens. 

Barens is wary of yet another pixie trick 
against him. He also has no intention of leaving 
the forest without Gwellen, no matter whom his 
father sends after him. With the charm of immu 
nity to pixie magic given to him by the elves (204), 
Barens isn't too worried even if the PCs are just 
another pixie trick. Since he can't let the pixies 
know he has this charm, he pretends to suc 
cumb to every bit of pixie harassment. 

If the PCs have already encountered Gwellen, 
but she is not with them, telling Barens that they 
know about the heart charm will certainly get 
his attention. He will know when it was given to 
Gwellen and what it looks like, obviously, and 
the false Barens (Ebroch) will not. 

If the PCs manage to convince Barens that 
they are on his side, not just fulfilling a contract 
for his father and certainly not pixie shills, he 
will try to enlist their aid. But not here. "The 
trees have eyes and ears," Barens warns the PCs, 
putting a single finger to his lips and quickly 
leading them away from this place. 

Barens will take the PCs to his cabin (401), 
where they can talk more openly and where 
they can plan strategy. Barens knows the way to 
get them there without incident. 


18 


Chapter Three: Inner Perils 


Deep in the forest reside dark horrors that the 
forest folk and others have avoided for decades. 
More than mere diversions on the way to solv 
ing the real plot, these creatures are here to pun 
ish anyone with more muscles than brains. 

301. Kobolds 

Kobolds (250): AC 7; MV 6; HD M; hp 2; THACO 

20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4; SA Nil; AL LE; ML 8; XP 3 

This tribe of 250 kobolds has lived in relative 
peace in this part of the forest since driving most 
other creatures away. They know this area of the 
woods very well and patrol it frequently. 

If the PCs arrive here along one of the trails, 
kobold scouts certainly would have spotted 
them long enough ahead of time for the main 
body of kobolds to have prepared an excellent 
ambush. Tf the PCs arrive here without using the 
trails, the kobolds would still have spotted them 
ahead of time and would be gathering more 
kobolds as the PCs neared the kobold camp. By 
the time the PCs reach here, kobolds will have 
surrounded them but can no longer catch the 
PCs by surprise. 

Regardless of how the party arrives, the 
kobolds wait for the best opportunity and then 
attack, using sniping tactics with arrows and 
slings in an attempt to damage the party. They 
use their hiding places and superior numbers to 
keep the PCs constantly surrounded. The 
kobolds automatically attack when they think 
they have an advantage. They will negotiate 
with the party only if beaten badly or threat 
ened with death. 

Leading the kobolds is a chief and his kobold 
honor guard consisting of four kobolds (AC 5, 
HD 1+1, hp 7, Dmg 1-8) as well as 12 captains 
(AC 6, HD 1-1, hp 4, Dmg 1-6). 

Treasure: 40 cp, 10 sp, three bloodstone gems 
worth 50 gp each. 


302. Owlbears 

Owlbears (5): AC 5; MV 12; HD 5+2; hp 29; 
THACO 15; #AT 3; Dmg 1-6/1-6/2-12; SA 
hug; AL N; ML 12 + special; XP 210 
These five owlbears, two adults and three 
babies, had grown used to being left alone in 
their part of the forest. That was before the pix 
ies started their scare campaign. Knowing about 
the owlbears' foul disposition, the pixies created 
one of their false trails leading directly to the 
owlbears' lair. Since this happened, innocent 
travelers and even other forest creatures have 
been unlucky enough to find themselves facing 
the owlbears. The owlbears have dealt with the 
intruders effectively, but their disposition has 
grown even worse with the bother. 

The two adult owlbears will treat the PCs 
just like any other intruder and will attack on 
sight. Regardless of the owlbears' neutral align 
ment, the PCs can do nothing to pacify the 
beasts, and their only course of action is to try 
to retreat with as little damage as possible. The 
PCs have no reason to battle these creatures, so 
award the party a bonus of 50 XP if they 
encounter the owlbears but manage to leave 
without a fight. 

303. Whispering Widow 
(Groaning Spirit) 

Groaning Spirit: AC 0; MV 15; HD 7; hp 30; 
THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; SA death wail; 
AL CE; ML 13; XP 2,000 
This is the location of the towering limestone 
cliff with a shroud of black stone that is com 
monly known as the Whispering Widow. It is 
visible from outside the forest and is a landmark 
from those occasional places where the canopy 
opens wide enough to let some daylight reach 
the forest floor. While the rock face itself 
accounts for the "Widow" in the name, a horri 
ble occupant of the hill's forested eastern slope 
is responsible for the "Whispering." 


19 


Inner Perils 


The rumors and legends common in the land 
betray little about this groaning spirit. No one 
outside the forest claims to have actually seen a 
real Whispering Widow, other than the face on 
the hill. Most of the rumors correctly identify 
the Widow as an elf, but the rest of the rumors 
are more fantasy than fact. The other accurate 
parts of the rumors are that the Widow's "whis 
pering," actually thought to be cries of grief, 
have lured many to their doom. 

Even the pixies want nothing to do with this 
creature, and they also have not been so sadistic 
as to create a false trail leading to the spirit's lair. 

If the PCs are unfortunate enough to venture 
within 100 yards (2 hexes) of the groaning spirit, 
they will be able to hear its wail regardless of 
wind direction. They can recognize the tone of 
anguish and can distinguish it from the voices 
in encounter 110. If the party has been unlucky 
enough to have blundered onto the groaning 
spirit's lair, they should be happy to escape with 
their lives. 

If they manage to fight and kill the spirit, the 
PCs still get only half the XP because they 
shouldn't have been here in the first place. 
However, killing the Whispering Widow will 
certainly make them local heroes. It will also 
give them instant credibility with the wood 
elves, pixies, Gwellen, Barens, or most other 
occupants of the forest. 

304. Will o'Wisp 

Will o'Wisp: AC -8; MV 18; HD 9; hp 44; THACO 

11; #AT 1; Dmg 2-16; SA electrical damage; AL 

CE; ML 17; XP 1,500 

A will o'wisp has taken up residence in this 
area of forest because of the suitably large 
expanse of quicksand, 30 feet by 50 feet. Hang 
ing from the canopy of limbs above the quick 
sand are the bags of treasure the will o'wisp has 
recovered from its victims. The will o'wisp has 
no use for this treasure except as bait for other 
adventurers. 


The pixies have created a false trail leading to 
a spot not too distant from the will o'wisp's 
haunt. The pixies didn't want to get any closer 
because the will o'wisp is so devious and blood 
thirsty. 

When the PCs reach this area of forest, the 
will o'wisp hovers just out of their reach, luring 
them forward. The will o'wisp continues to lead 
its victims toward the quicksand, fighting only 
as necessary. 

Treasure: 200 cp, 200 sp, 300 gp, 100 pp, five 
jet gems worth 100 gp each, gem of seeing, mirror 
of mental prowess, shield +3. 

305. Green Dragon 

Dragon, green (very old): AC -5; MV 9/30; HD 

18; hp 96; THACO 2; #AT 3; Dmg 1-8/1-8/ 

2-20; SA breath, spells; AL LE; ML 16; XP 

6,500 

Living in a cluster of hills cloaked in an eerie 
green mist, this very old green dragon goes 
wherever it wants, whenever it wants. It usually 
stays close to home, however, to protect its trea 
sure hoard. That is totally unnecessary, as every 
forest creature knows about the dragon and 
none would be foolish enough to try to pilfer its 
hoard. 

The dragon long ago cleared out its immedi 
ate area of any other creatures. As part of their 
scare campaign, the pixies created a false trail 
leading to the dragon's lair, but they stopped 
well short because they didn't want to deal with 
this foul-tempered and powerful beast. 

In addition to its dangerous chlorine breath 
weapon, which causes 18d6+9 points of dam 
age, the dragon radiates fear within 35 yards 
and can cast a number of spells. Once each day 
the dragon can use charm person, detect good, 
entangle, ESP, gust of wind, hold person, plant 
growth, slow, suggestion, warp wood, and water 
breathing. 

As the PCs encounter the green dragon, they 
notice that its curiosity exceeds its hunger as it 


20 


Inner Perils 


quickly begins to converse in common. An open 
exchange of information seems fair to the 
dragon, especially since it has no secrets and 
sees no harm in giving information to creatures 
whom it expects to be its next meal. 

The dragon knows about all long-term resi 
dents of this forest, and it does not hesitate to tell 
the PCs the general location of any lair, including 
the pixies'. The dragon knows nothing of Barens 
or his cabin, since they are recent arrivals, and is 
unaware of the pixies' harassment campaign. 
The dragon will not divulge any information 
about itself, its habits, or its hoard. 

The dragon wants to question the PCs because 
it is thirsty for information about the outside 
world. The dragon first asks the PCs what they 
are doing in the forest. It cares little about their 
mission but is most interested in the fact that 
they are mercenaries, attempting a task for hire. 
This interests the dragon because it reasons that 
their employer must be wealthy to be able to 
hire them. The dragon asks repeated and 
pointed questions about the PCs' employer, his 
residence, and his riches. The dragon also asks 
leading questions like, "Your employer must be 
the richest man in the region, yes?" The dragon 
is obviously trying to learn if there is an even 
better target outside the forest. 

The dragon will continue this conversation 
until he thinks he has gleaned all the informa 
tion he can from the PCs and has given them a 
fair amount in return. Then it attacks without 
warning. 

Treasure: 20,000 sp, 10,000 pp, silver dinner 
place settings for 64 people, including plates, 
goblets, eating utensils, and all serving acces 
sories-more than 500 pieces in all with a total 
silver content exceeding 4,000 sp. 

306. Choke Creeper 

Plant, Carnivorous: AC 6 (vine), 5 (stalk); MV-; 

HD 25; hp 150; THAC0 7; #AT 8 or more; Dmg 

1-4; SA strangulation; AL N; ML 14; XP 9,000 


This vine is 120 feet long, twisting back on 
itself again and again. PCs unlucky enough to 
wander within its grasp are in for the fight of 
their lives. Its many branches each have 12 hp in 
addition to the damage the main vine can sus 
tain. The vine can make four attacks on each tar 
get within its reach. 

307. tttercap 

Ettercap: AC 6; MV 12; HD 5; hp 20; THAC0 15; 

#AT 3; Dmg 1-3/1-3/1-8; SA poison; AL NE; 

ML 13; XP 475 

Expecting to claim its victims one at a time, 
this ettercap has set many snare-type traps in a 
small area, and he sits up in the branches wait 
ing for someone or something to set one off. The 
creature is quite taken aback to see a whole 
party of PCs heading his way. 

Regardless of whether a PC sets off a trap or 
one of them detects a trap without setting it off, 
the ettercap is not so foolish as to attack the PCs 
as long as they have numerous friends nearby, 
and so the creature cowers behind whatever 
foliage it can find. 

If the PCs corner the ettercap, it will defend 
itself. If the PCs decide not to bother, the etter 
cap wheezes a sigh of relief and goes back to its 
watching post to wait for better odds. 

308. Obliviax 

Obliviax: AC 10; MV Nil; HD '/; hp 2; THAC0 

20; #AT 0; Dmg Nil; SA spells; AL NE; ML 9; 

XP 15 

If the PCs managed to protect their memories 
from the scheming pixies, they now have 
another problem to deal with. When the party 
comes within 60 feet, the obliviax starts trying 
to pluck people's memories. It goes after the 
spellcasters first so it can use those spells to 
defend itself. 


21 




Inner Perils 



309. Giant Sundew 

Plant, carnivorous: AC 7; MV 1; HD 8; hp 30; 
THACO 12; #AT 6 per target; Dmg 1-3; SA suf 
focating; AL N; ML 11; XP 1,000 
The sticky, sweet sundew lashes out with its 
tendrils at anyone within its reach. Though this 
plant should not pose a serious threat for the 
PCs, it is sure to be a bother. And if the PCs 
decide that the sundew is protecting something, 
they will find it a major bother to kill, all for 
nothing. 

310. Stirges 

Stirges (24): AC 8; MV 3/18; HD 1+1; hp 5; 
THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3; SA blood drain; 
ALN; ML 8; XP 85 

This cluster of stirges has cleared almost all 
the small mammals out of this area of forest. The 
thirsty stirges will not hesitate to attack the 
party. As the stirges can smell the PCs some dis 
tance off, the encounter does not occur exactly at 
the stirges' lair. If the PCs defeat the stirges and 
go looking for treasure, they must spend consid 
erable extra time to have any chance of finding 
the lair (10% chance per hour). 

Treasure: 2,000 gp, potion of flying, luand ofpar- 
ahjzation with 54 charges, book with nothing 
written on the cover (tome of clear thought). 

311. Worgs 

Worgs (8): AC 6; MV 18; HD 3+3; hp 16; THACO 
17; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; SA Nil; AL NE; ML 11; 
XP 60 

These worgs are relative newcomers to this 
part of Whispering Widow Woods. They had 
lived nearer the kobolds (301) but grew weary 
of that sniveling band's attempts to befriend 
and train the worgs, presumably to use as 
mounts. These particular worgs are too inde 
pendent and proud to serve as mounts for any 
body, much less for kobolds. Tired of the 


hassle, the worgs moved. 

The worgs are intelligent enough not to attack 
the PCs blindly. The worgs know they probably 
could not win that battle, and so the worgs 
shadow the party warily, attacking only if they 
see a sign of weakness. 

The worgs' speed and knowledge of the area 
make it almost impossible for the PCs to corner 
them or force them into a fight. 

312. Firbolgs 

Firbolgs (3): AC 2; MV 15; HD 13+7; hp 71; 
THACO 9; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10+7; SA spells; AL 
N; ML 16; XP 4,000 

Other forest creatures leave these three fir 
bolgs alone, and for good reason. The giant-kin 
don't like strangers, and they are one of the 
most formidable foes to be found. 

If the PCs go far enough afield to reach this 
part of the forest, they may be in for some seri 
ous trouble. The firbolgs don't attack immedi 
ately, but they do try to get the PCs to leave. 
Any PCs who are this far off track may also 
decide to stay and talk to the firbolgs a bit 
longer. They'll see the firbolgs' attitude change 
from friendly to firm to fatal. 

Treasure: 2,000 gp, sapphire worth 1,000 gp. 

313. Hangman Tree 

Plant, carnivorous: AC 3/5 (appendages); MV 
0; HD 6+1 hp/year; hp 142; THACO 7; #AT 3; 
Dmg 1-3; SA swallow; AL N; ML 15; XP 700 
If the PCs wander into this area, the best they 
can hope for is to escape with little loss. The 
hangman tree would like nothing better than a 
few PCs as a change in diet from its usual kobold 
fare. If the PCs do venture too close, the tree 
attacks three of them simultaneously. 


22 








Inner Perils 


314. Wolfwere 

Wolfwere: AC 3; MV 15; HD 5+1; hp 22; THACO 

15; #AT 2; Dmg 2-12/1-8 (double-bladed axe); 

SA singing brings on lethargy; AL CE; ML 14; 

XP 1,000 

After all this way, finally the PCs have found 
Barens, or so they think. Unfortunately for the 
hapless party that has gotten this far, this isn't 
Barens, or even a pixie polymorphed to look like 
Barens. This wolfwere is much more sinister. 
Seeing the party of humans and demihumans 
approaching, the wolfwere assumes the form of 
an attractive example of their kind, namely that 
handsome young woodsman the wolfwere has 
seen wandering about. 

The wolfwere in this guise cannot fool the 
party for long, but he doesn't need to. Upon see 
ing the PCs and heading toward them, 'Barens' 
breaks into song. This song is far from harmless, 
however, as it causes lethargy (5-8 rounds) 
among the PCs who fail their saving throws vs. 
spells. 

Just as the wolfwere reaches the PCs it 
changes into a half-human, half-wolf form and 
attacks with its mighty jaws as well as with the 
axe it is carrying. The PCs have little choice but 
to fight back. 

Treasure: 5,000 cp, five amber gems worth 100 
gp each, oil of disenchantment, potion of levitation, 
potion of speed, scroll of protection from electricity. 

315. Yellow Musk Creeper 

Yellow Musk Creeper: AC 7; MV 0; HD 3; hp 

14; THACO 17; #AT 8; Dmg special; SA gas; 

AL N; ML 20; XP 325 

The beautiful flowers on this plant may seem 
out of place in the darkest reaches of the forest, 
but not as out of place as any creature that ven 
tures too close to them. Even in such a hostile 
environment as much of Whispering Widow 
Woods is, there are few things as mindlessly 
destructive as the yellow musk creeper. 


Any PCs who become yellow musk zombies 
are out of commission for the rest of the adven 
ture, even if their comrades rescue them from 
the creeper's fatal attack. 

Treasure: 5,000 cp, four moonstones worth 50 
gp each, four amethysts worth 100 gp each. 

316. Wizard 

Wizard (Mil): AC 10; MV 12; hp 30 ; Str 9; Dex 

14; Con 10; Int 15; Wis 13; Cha 12; THACO 20; 

#AT by spell; Dmg by spell; SA spells; AL CG; 

ML 12 

Spells: shield, ride the wind, past life, hold person, 
and locate creature 

Fiona is a squat wizard with very large hands, 
the only other body parts showing besides her 
face. Her hair is the color of a crow's feathers 
and hangs in straggly ringlets to her shoulders. 
Her face is pleasant if expressionless, but when 
she frowns or becomes angry, her face becomes 
frightening and distorted. 

She wears a flowing robe which changes color 
as the sky changes color. Her feet are wrapped 
in leather strips, but are seldom visible beneath 
the long robe. 

When the PCs encounter Fiona, she is outside 
of what appears to be a small hut hidden by lots 
of bushes and vegetation. Beside her crude 
wooden door is a slice of tree trunk that appears 
to be used as a stool. Strewn about the dirt are 
several large bones. 

Fiona is on her knees searching the ground for 
something. Even if the PCs attempt to sneak up 
on her, she will not be surprised. She claims her 
hearing is far too good for anything to sneak up 
on her. If the PCs approach her in a friendly 
manner, she will chat amiably with them, all the 
while searching through the bushes and on the 
ground. She knows nothing of Barens or 
Gwellen or even that the pixies are causing trou 
ble for humans. However, she seems to be inter 
ested and concerned that humans may be chased 
away from the area. Fiona occasionally uses 


23 





24 



















Inner Perils 



humans in her experiments and a shortage of 
them would hinder her research. 

If the PCs ask what she is searching for, Fiona 
tells them her spell book has fallen apart and the 
pages have scattered in the wind. So far she has 
only managed to find the pages containing just 
four spells. She has lost 14 other spells and is a 
bit distracted by her problem. One spell in par 
ticular has her worried. She will explain if the 
PCs ask. Something went terribly wrong with 
the spell as she was casting it and now she must 
figure out how to reverse it. 

If the PCs approach her in a hostile manner or 
try to attack, she casts a simple hold person so she 
can convince them to help her. Of course, the 
PCs really have no choice. If they refuse to help 
her, she will not let them leave alive. The PCs 
should receive no XP if they attack Fiona, for 
doing so would be extremely foolish. 

If the PCs have been friendly so far, Fiona 
will invite them into her hut, opening the door 
for them. The door and all windows are wizard 
locked, so the PCs may have a hard time leav 
ing. Once inside, Fiona becomes a bit hostile. 
She demands that the PCs help her before they 
may leave. Inside the dark, smoky hut, Fiona 
leads the PCs to a stack of small cages covered 
by a faded purple cloth. There inside the three 
cages are two small men and a small woman, 
no more than 2 feet tall. They are all wrapped in 
small cloths since their clothing no longer fits 
them. In their tiny voices, they plead for help 
from the PCs. Behind the cages are three piles of 
human bones, each pile resting in a shallow 
basket. 

Fiona explains that she was practicing a new 
spell when things went terribly wrong. She 
ended up with a pile of bones and three very 
shapeless, small humans when she was fin 
ished. As a stopgap measure, she "borrowed" 
three pixie skeletons from the pixies' graveyard 
and "installed" them in the humans until she 
could straighten out the problem. Fiona would 
like to return the borrowed pixie skeletons 


"before the little gnats find them gone. Then I'll 
never get rid of the little pests." She wants to 
restore the humans to their normal size, but has 
lost the papers her spell was written on. She will 
let the PCs leave only if they can figure out how 
to help. 

The PCs can help in two ways which are very 
simple if they take the time to figure it out. They 
can go search for the missing pages in the bushes 
and try to help Fiona figure out where she went 
wrong. A PC with high Intelligence (at least 15) 
should be able to help. 

Observant PCs may notice a deep shelf in the 
hut. The shelf is straining under the weight of 
many large jars. Fiona explains the potions that 
each jar contains ( potion of flying, potion of dragon 
control, potion of growth, potion of animal control ), 
but the one that would be the most useful is the 
large jar containing many potions of growth. The 
second option for the PCs might be to painstak 
ingly fit the bones together for each small human 
and apply a potion of growth to the humans. Then 
Fiona could switch the bones and return the 
pixie skeletons before the pixies discovered they 
were missing. 

Either option should prove successful for the 
PCs. True to her word, Fiona lets the PCs leave 
untouched. The humans, back to their usual 
form, will not be strong enough yet to accom 
pany the PCs, even though they are desperate to 
leave. 

The PCs could earn a few potions from Fiona 
if they also agree to return the pixie skeletons to 
the graveyard. They just have to make sure they 
don't get caught with the bones by the pixies, or 
they will be brought before the pixie council and 
severely punished. 


25 



Chapter Four: Pixie Trouble 


It is here that the PCs will be challenged the 
most, and it is here where they will earn the XP 
awards that will make their adventure a success 
or failure. 


401. Barens's Cabin 

Barens (FO): AC 8; MV 12; HD 1; hp 4; Str 15; 

Dex 13; Con 12; Int 8; Wis 7; Cha 17; THACO 

20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8 (double-bladed axe); SA 

Nil; AL NG; ML 10; XP 15 

From the outside, this cabin appears to be 
well made. The logs have been carefully 
matched and the gaps between them are packed 
with mud. Flowering forest plants grow all 
around the cabin except where a cobblestone 
path leads to the door. The front of the cabin has 
a slightly open door and two windows on each 
side of the door. 

If Barens has led the PCs here, he has them 
follow him inside the cabin. He will leave the 
door open and takes a seat facing the open door. 

If the PCs have not already encountered 
Barens, they will find him here at the cabin. See 
encounters 215 and 216 for a description of 
Barens. The Barens they encounter here will be 
genuine, not a pixie trick. As soon as the PCs are 
within 20 feet of the cabin, Barens appears at the 
door. 

Barens will greet them warily and does not let 
the PCs enter the cabin until they have gained 
his confidence and convinced him that they are 
looking for the best solution for all involved. If 
the PCs try to forcibly capture Barens, he will 
fight to the best of his ability against such odds. 
But it is not in the party's best interest to pro 
duce a dead Barens, so they should avoid harm 
ing him. 

If Gwellen is with the party and she indicates 
that the PCs are trustworthy, Barens will openly 
discuss his plight with them. But the PCs must 
keep close watch on Gwellen and Barens. If the 
party is threatening in any way or attempts to 
separate the two, Gwellen will become invisible 


and try to cause confusion in the party. Any mem 
ber of the party who fails a saving throw vs. 
magic will be permanently confused (a remove 
curse will remove the confusion). If some of the 
party avoids the cause confusion spell, Gwellen 
will summon a giant hornet to the area (use 
encounter 213). If the PCs attack the hornet, they 
will be kept busy for several rounds. Barens and 
Gwellen will then flee into the forest and cannot 
be found. Neither will return to the cabin. 

If the PCs have gained Barens's trust, Barens 
will explain his side of the story. He will motion 
to everyone to follow him inside the cabin. 

The inside of the cabin is as carefully detailed 
as the outside. Barens has built a beautiful table 
with two long benches which he offers to the 
PCs to sit on. In addition to the chair that Barens 
sits on is a carved wooden bed on the other side 
of the cabin. It has a straw-filled mattress cov 
ered by a big brown blanket. Barens built a small 
fireplace along the back wall. From a crude 
metal hook hangs a small cooking pot. There is a 
small fire in the fireplace that produces little 
smoke. The windows are uncovered, but have 
shutters that Barens can close from the inside. 

He started coming to Whispering Widow 
Woods when he got frustrated with his father. 
He would simply take long walks in the woods 
to think and relax. On one of these walks he met 
Gwellen, and they had a wonderful time talking 
about their dictatorial fathers and generally 
sharing each other's company. Neither realized 
just how well they had hit it off until later. 

Both unconsciously started returning to their 
original meeting place. It was inevitable that 
they would find each other again. When they 
met for the second time, both knew it was no 
accident. They found even more joy in each 
other this time than the first. To show how he 
cared for Gwellen, Barens gave her a small gold 
heart on a fine chain for her to wear around her 
neck. 

After that, they began to schedule meetings, 
each of them eagerly anticipating the next ren- 


26 










dezvous to take them away from the frustra 
tions of home life. As the meetings became more 
frequent, both fathers began to take notice. 

Barens's father, Jareb, found more tasks to 
keep the lad busy, too busy for what Jareb took 
for juvenile daydreaming. Though he respected 
his father, Barens was not about to stop seeing 
Gwellen, and he continued to find ways to go to 
the forest, becoming ever more defiant of his 
father. Gwellen's father, Ebron, had an extensive 
spy network and was much better informed 
about what was going on. He wasn't about to let 
his daughter become enthralled with a "stupid 
human." He flatly forbade his daughter from 
meeting with Barens. 

Barens was heartbroken when Gwellen first 
missed a scheduled rendezvous. He was angry 
with her at first, but then he realized what must 
have happened. Despite the considerable dan 
gers of Whispering Widow Woods, Barens wan 
dered the forest for days, calling out Gwellen's 
name. 

If Gwellen is with the party, she can explain 
what happened to her father. A few of Ebron's 
subjects had openly sympathized with the 
romance of Gwellen's feelings. Many others felt 
the same way but were afraid to speak out for 
fear of angering Ebron. Included in this group 
were Gwellen's mother, Lizbet, and Gwellen's 
brother, Ebroch. Word of Barens's persistence 
and willingness to brave the dangers of the for 
est became known among Lizbet, Ebroch, and 
other sympathizers. They conspired to help 
Gwellen meet with Barens. 

This situation continued for some weeks, with 
Ebron thinking he had put a stop to the prob 
lem. But Gwellen and Barens did manage a few 
clandestine moments together now and then. It 
was during this time that Barens, spending sev 
eral days at a time away from home in the hopes 
of meeting Gwellen, built this cabin in the 
woods. Using his wood-cutting and building 
skills helped diffuse the frustration he was feel 
ing at not being able to meet with Gwellen. 


Meanwhile, Ebron discovered that Gwellen 
had been sneaking out and meeting with Barens. 
He posted guards to watch her every minute of 
every day to prevent another meeting from tak 
ing place. He also began a harassment campaign 
against Barens. It was also during this time that 
Barens met up with the sylvan elves. 

The elves took pity on Barens but dared not 
oppose the pixies directly. As a gift, the elf 
leader Tretorn had his powerful sword Virtue 
bestow upon Barens the ability to resist all pixie 
magic and mischief. He was also given a charm 
in the shape of Virtue to help strengthen this 
resistance. The only condition was that Barens 
keep the charm a secret and never involve the 
elves directly in the dispute. Barens readily 
agreed. Since then, Barens has deceived the pix 
ies by pretending to fall victim to their magic 
even though he is immune. 

Finally, in the last few days, Lizbet and her 
allies have managed to slip Gwellen past 
Ebron's guards a few times in an effort to talk to 
Barens. Ebron and his loyalists have been so 
busy casting illusions and tracking intruders 
that they let Gwellen slip away. 

It doesn't matter if the PCs find their way to 
Barens's cabin or if he leads them there. Once 
the PCs have gained his confidence the results 
will be the same. Barens will probably refuse to 
leave the forest without Gwellen. Barens is 
happy to have the assistance of the PCs as long 
as they are working for what he wants and that 
is for he and Gwellen to be together. Barens will 
talk freely with the PCs, keeping secret only the 
charm he received from the elves. 

402. Pixies 

Pixies (49): AC 5; MV 6/12; HD 'A; hp 2; THACO 
20 (16 with bows); #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; 
SA spells; AL N; ML 11; XP 135 
This has always been a thriving colony of 
pixies. The rumors and true horrors of Whis 
pering Widow Woods kept the curious away. 


27 



but the pixies were close enough to human civi 
lization to be able to practice their mischief. 
This colony numbers 40 pixies, headed by a 
king, Ebron, and a high council of eight other 
pixies. The high council is mostly advisory, but 
since Ebron rules by consent, he would under 
mine his own authority if he chose a course 
opposed by the council. 

Most of the pixies support Ebron's campaign 
to keep Gwellen and Barens apart, either 
because they agree that this is a mismatch or 
because they simply defer to Ebron's authority. 
There is a growing group of pixies who oppose 
this campaign, either actively or secretly. The 
two most important figures in this group are 
Lizbet, Ebron's wife, and Ebroch, Ebron's son 
and Gwellen's brother. Lizbet and Ebroch have 
not dared to oppose Ebron openly, but they 
have taken risks to help Gwellen escape her 
house arrest and try to meet Barens. 

Ebron's efforts to harass the "large folk" have 
taken more and more pixies away from the 
colony. This in turn has made it easier for 
Gwellen to slip away and try to find Barens. 

If and when the PCs arrive at the pixie colony, 
they will be taken before Ebron and the high 
council. To have reached here, the PCs have 
earned some respect in the eyes of the pixies. If 
the PCs don't know the story of Gwellen and 
Barens or keep what they know to themselves, 
the pixies will merely point out that the party is 
in the wrong place, has no business here, and 
should leave. As long as the PCs don't become 
belligerent, the pixies will not attack them, but 
the pixies will be unyielding and completely 
unwilling to negotiate. 

If the PCs know anything about the relation 
ship between Gwellen and Barens, the pixie 
leaders will be more inclined to talk, though the 
PCs will still find them to be tough negotiators. 
For this final parley between the pixies and the 
PCs, go to the Resolution section at the end of 
this chapter. 

If the PCs know anything about Fiona 


(encounter 316) and can tell the pixies about the 
pixie skeletons, the pixie leaders will also be 
much more inclined to talk. 

403. Gwellen 

Pixie: AC 5; MV 6/12; HD 'A; hp 2; THACO 20; 

#AT 1; Dmg 1-4; SA spells; AL N; ML 11; XP 

- 2,000 

See encounter 207 for a description of 
Gwellen. 

If the PCs were to kill Gwellen, they probably 
deserve worse than the -2,000 XP penalty indi 
cated. This is probably the worst possible out 
come of the adventure. 

As the PCs are wandering through the woods 
looking for Barens, they just might meet 
Gwellen, who is also wandering about looking 
for Barens. Meeting Gwellen could be a big 
break for the PCs, so place a few more 403 hexes 
on the map as other possible meeting sites, or 
even one directly in the PCs' path, if the party 
remains clueless about the point of this adven 
ture. 

The nature of the PCs' encounter with 
Gwellen depends largely on how much the PCs 
have learned to this point. If the PCs don't know 
about the relationship between Gwellen and 
Barens, they will probably be quite suspicious at 
meeting a "friendly" pixie. If the PCs have 
unraveled some or all of the story, they will rec 
ognize how important Gwellen is and will treat 
her accordingly. 

Gwellen knows the location of Barens's cabin, 
but she dares not go there alone because she 
thinks her father has posted guards nearby who 
would intercept her. 

Gwellen is desperate and will seek help from 
anybody. She will approach the PCs openly and 
try to enlist their support. She will tell them the 
whole story. The only part she doesn't know is 
about the pixie-immunity charm Barens 
received from the elves. 

What Gwellen wants most is to be able to be 


28 





29 





Pixie Trouble 


with Barens whenever she desires. Her grandest 
wish, which she has barely allowed herself to 
dream, is to become human-size and marry 
Barens. She knows that even if he were shrunk 
down to her size, he would never be accepted 
into the pixie colony. She also knows that her 
father will probably never agree to any of these 
things. 

If the PCs talk with Gwellen and they then go 
their separate ways, continue with the adven 
ture as appropriate. If the PCs agree to help 
Gwellen and she begins to travel with them, 
decide if the time is right to refer to the Resolu 
tion section. 

Resolution 

There are many ways the PCs can resolve this 
adventure. Many of them are at least partially 
unsatisfactory. 

Abduct Barens 

The easiest way to resolve the adventure is for 
the PCs to seize Barens, tie him up, and return 
him to his father. This is, after all, what the PCs 
are paid to do. They could adopt this plan 
whether they know anything of the romance or 
not. If the PCs know too much about the situa 
tion, however, some of the characters' personali 
ties or alignments would make them balk at this 
solution to the problem. 

Award XP based on what is likely to happen 
next. If Barens simply runs back to the woods, 
the PCs get nothing and Jareb demands that 
they finish the job or he will besmirch their 
names throughout the land. If Barens needs to 
be locked up or if the PCs figure out some mag 
ical way to keep him out of the forest, they 
deserve some XP but also may be penalized for 
acting out of character or violating a charac 
ter's alignment. This solution does stop the 
pixies' mischief, however, and deserves some 
award. 


Leave Barens Behind 

This may not seem like a possible resolution at 
all. But it can be. Once the PCs meet Barens and 
try to help him, they may see the situation as 
hopeless. Barens, armed with the pixie-immunity 
charm from the elves, would rather have the situ 
ation continue as is than some of the other possi 
ble resolutions. From his perspective, things are 
better now than they were before he got the 
charm, and he may not be overly trustful of the 
PCs besides. If Barens can convince the PCs that 
he really wants to stay and if the PCs see no other 
solution, they may leave him behind. 

This is unacceptable, of course. Jareb will 
refuse payment and will do his best to dirty the 
PCs' reputations. Not only that but the pixies' 
harassment campaign continues. This solution 
leaves a lot of dissatisfied customers and 
deserves no award. 

Abduct Gwellen 

This solution is the same as persuading 
Gwellen to leave the forest so she can be with 
Barens. It probably wouldn't take much persua 
sion to point out that Ebron will never change 
his mind and Gwellen and Barens will never be 
able to live together in peace unless they get 
away from him. 

If Gwellen leaves Whispering Widow Woods 
but doesn't leave the area, Ebron will start a war 
against the "large folk." He may be able to enlist 
a number of other forest dwellers on his side, 
considering the circumstances. This war would 
be so destructive that it should cancel the PCs' 
XP award. 

If Gwellen and Barens run off together, leav 
ing the area, at least those two will be happy. 
Ebron will forever hate and distrust the "large 
folk," and Jareb will have lost his son perma 
nently. The PCs deserve some award, but they 
will be discredited in this region and must move 
on to find more work. 


30 


Pixie Trouble 


Face Ebron Alone 

After arriving at the pixies' court, the PCs can 
attempt to talk sense into Ebron. Ebron's posi 
tion is firm, however, so the PCs will certainly 
find a tough time of it. Though the PCs have 
earned some grudging respect from the pixies 
for making it this far, Ebron may demand the 
party fulfill a quest to show their worthiness to 
even speak to him and the pixie council. Two 
possible quests would be to kill the groaning 
spirit (Whispering Widow, encounter 303) or the 
green dragon (encounter 305). Ebron would 
give the PCs explicit directions on how to find 
their prey and perhaps even strategy tips, as the 
pixies would be happy to rid the forest of either 
menace. On the other hand, Ebron might come 
up with a less strenuous quest. News of the PCs' 
achievements will have arrived at the pixie 
court before they do, and if the DM decides the 
PCs have been bold, fought well and virtuously, 
and improved the environment for the pixies, 
Ebron can give the PCs a task that would be 
beneficial to the pixies without being such an 
arduous quest. These could be easy kills, such as 
a giant spider (202), giant ticks (203), stirges 
(310), worgs (311), or yellow musk creeper (315). 
A bigger challenge would be a choke creeper 
(306), ettercap (307), obliviax (308), giant sun 
dew (309), hangman tree (313), or wolfwere 
(314). 

If the PCs earn the right to make their plea in 
the case, Ebron will still be difficult to convince. 
Any solution that Ebron sees as losing his 
daughter is unacceptable. This includes acts that 
he would consider turning her back on her pixie 
heritage. 

Because of the PCs' difficulty in negotiating 
with Ebron without having Gwellen by their 
side, the DM can give them a better chance by 
having Ebron send them on a second mission, 
that of finding Gwellen (as she has once again 
slipped away). Because Ebron is more interested 
in finding his daughter than in testing the PCs 


this time around, he pledges the pixies' help in 
finding her. This could prove invaluable to the 
PCs because, as soon as they leave the pixie 
council, Lizbet, Ebroch, or another of Gwellen's 
allies can approach the PCs and guide them 
directly to Gwellen. This connection allows 
Gwellen and her allies to plan strategy with the 
PCs before returning to Ebron's court. 

Anything the PCs can arrange that leaves 
Gwellen and Barens together deserves some XP 
award, with the magnitude of the award deter 
mined by the other effects of that particular 
solution. If the PCs find a way to make every 
body (Gwellen, Barens, Ebron, and Jareb) happy, 
they deserve a major reward. This should come 
in the form of a big XP bonus as well as gifts 
from the pixies and from Jareb. 

Face Ebron With Barens 

If Barens accompanies the PCs to the pixies' 
court, it will destroy any credibility the PCs 
might have as neutral arbiters. The sight of 
Barens angers Ebron and makes him even more 
difficult to deal with. 

Ebron might try some magic against Barens. 
When this doesn't work because of the charm 
Barens received from the elves, Ebron would 
likely fly into a rage. 

The only way the PCs might salvage this situ 
ation is to pretend that Barens is their prisoner 
and that they are trying to help the pixies in 
order to end the scare campaign. This would 
take some pretty fast talking on the part of the 
PCs, as the pixies are not stupid. 

Based on the actions of the PCs, the DM 
should decide what action Ebron will take to 
give the PCs a chance to salvage their position. 
Depending on their attitude, manner, and state 
ments, Ebron will assign a quest as described 
when the PCs face Ebron alone. The difference is 
that Ebron may first imprison Barens or may 
instead assign the quest to Barens rather than 
the PCs. In either case, it would be up to the PCs 


31 



Pixie Trouble 


to gain Ebron's confidence, and his choice of 
quest should be one of the more difficult ones 
based on his negative reaction to Barens's pres 
ence with the PCs. The DM should decide what 
quest would be most appropriate based on the 
players' actions and the circumstances. 

Face Ebron With Gwellen 

If the PCs approach the pixie king and council 
in the company of Gwellen, it gives them instant 
credibility, regardless of whether Barens is also 
with them or not. The fact that Gwellen would 
trust these "large folk" and would appear with 
them in defiance of her parents is a sobering one 
for Ebron. Though angry, he does not want to 
drive his daughter away forever. And besides, 
he thought she was safely tucked away under 
house arrest. Clearly he didn't have the control 
of the situation that he thought he had. 

The sight of Gwellen with the PCs has another 
important effect. It emboldens Lizbet, Ebroch, 
and Gwellen's other sympathizers among the 
pixies. They are still not ready to lead a palace 
revolution, but they are much more ready to dis 
agree with Ebron openly, to side with Gwellen 
in the discussion, and to gently inform Ebron 
that he can be pretty unreasonable at times. 

Now here's some real hope for the PCs. They 
can actually talk and negotiate on an even foot 
ing with Ebron. All this hasn't changed his 
views, however, and he still will not accept any 
solution that means losing his daughter. The 
PCs still have to really use their heads to come 
up with a solution acceptable to everybody, but 
at least they've got adversaries who are willing 
to listen. 

Unique Solutions 

With such an open-ended adventure and no 
"right" answer at the end, a particularly creative 
party might come up with something totally 
unexpected. 


Perhaps the PCs trick Gwellen into drinking a 
love potion and have a fine-looking pixie lad 
nearby for her to cast her gaze upon when she 
wakes up. Or do the opposite with Barens and a 
human lass. Or both! 

Maybe the PCs have found a way for Gwellen 
and Barens to be together even though they are 
still different sizes. One PC may get the bright 
idea to pour a potion of diminution on Barens 
while he's asleep. 

Such creativity should be recognized and 
rewarded, but don't forget to consider the other 
effects of the solution. And be sure the players 
are acting in character. Use the following rough 
guidelines to determine the adventure's XP 
award in addition to awards that have accumu 
lated from one encounter to the next. 

Special Awards 

Any solution that leaves Gwellen and Barens 
together deserves some award. 

Any solution that returns Barens to Jareb 
deserves some award, as that was the PCs' mis 
sion. 

Any solution that allows the pixies' harass 
ment campaign to continue should receive only 
half XP awards. 

Any solution that doesn't return Barens to 
Jareb should receive only half XP awards. 

Any solution that starts a war between the 
pixies and the "large folk" deserves no award or 
a negative award based on the other circum 
stances. 

Any solution that pleases everyone deserves 
at least 10,000 XP, and even more if the players 
are particularly creative or role-played particu 
larly well. 

Any solution that allows Gwellen and Barens 
to marry and live together happily as man and 
wife deserves a bonus award of at least 10,000 
XP. Remember, however, that Barens can never 
be accepted into pixie society. 


32 


Whispering Widow Woods (Players' map) 










































































/Advanced!_ 

Duiw onsyafflns 


Official Game Adventure 


by Jim Musser 


Whispering Widow Woods has always been 
a frightening place. For generations the ru 
mors, the strange noises, and the gloomy, 
'Meu tangled undergrowth have scared off the 

faint of heart. Recently, however. Whispering 
a ^ Widow Woods has grown much more sinister. 

I ^ \ Familiar voices speaking from thin air lure 

if ^miflhl people to their doom; travelers emerge with 

W tk no memory; the very trees are said to come to 

* life and attack the unwary! Is this any place to 

^ go, searching for a lost boy? 

lip W V _ 

Tales of Enchantment is an ADVANCED 
. DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) adventure that em- 

1 Wm.ri phasizes the mystery of this enigmatic 

woods. But to solve the forest's puzzle, the heroes must first survive its 
danger. 7 hies of Enchantment will test the heroes' wits as well as their 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva 
WI 53147 
U.S.A. 


TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS is a registered trademark owned by TSR, Inc. 
The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. (r)1993 TSR, Inc. 

All rights reserved. Printed in the U.S.A. 

































