Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09175 DA 2 Temple Of The Frog"
See other formats
A BLACKMOOR(tm) Adventure For Character Levels 10-14 


Expert Game Adventure 


Temple of the Frog 


by Dave L. Arneson & David J. Ritchie 


TSB. Inc. 


r"ODUCT" Of voon imagination * 

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. DGD, BLACKMOOR. PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION, and the TSR logo are 
trademarks owned by TSR. Inc. 










Ex pen Game Adventure 


TEMPLE OF THE FROG 

by David L. Arneson & David J. Ritchie 


Table of Contents 


CREDITS 

Editor: Deborah C. Ritchie 
Cover An: Dennis Beauvais 
Interior Artist: Mark Nelson 
Cartographer: Dennis Kauth 
Typographer: Kim N. Lindau 
Key line: Stephanie Tabat 

DAVID L. ARNESON is the co-author of 
the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) Fantasy 
Role Playing Game. 

DUanbuted to th# book trade m the United State* by Random 
tjoua*. Inc and tn Canada bv Random Houir uf Canada, Ltd. Di"- 
tribtiird to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributers Distrib 
uted in the United Kingdom by TSR UK Ltd 

DUNGEONS ft DRAGONS. DftD. PRODUCTS OF YOUR 
IMAGINATION, and the TSR logo arr trademark* owned by 
TSR Ine 

• Copyright 1906 TSR. Inc All right* rc a c r vtrd 

Any question* on thu matenai should be tent, along with a tel/ 
addressed. *tamped return envelope, to 'DftD* Game Questions," 
at the address below 


TSR Inc 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva. 
WI 53147 


TSR UK Lid 
The Mill. Rathmorc Road 
Cambridge C B14AD 
United Kingdom 


DM BACKGROUND . 

The King Returns . 

The Lady Vanishes . 

The Spook Ponders . 

BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 

A Reunion In Corunglain. 

A Summons In Blackmoor. 

A Meeting In Glantri . 

A Proposal In Confidence. 

RUNNING THE ADVENTURE 

Out Of Blackmoor. 

TVail Of the Frog . 

Heart Of Darkness . 

Jaws Of Death . 

THE CITY OF THE FROG . 

Frog Swamp . 

The Moat . 

The Temple Compound . 

The Temple Garden. 

The Outer Bailey .............. 

Frog Town. 

THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 

Ground Floor. 

Second Floor . 

Third Floor. 

Fourth Floor. 

Fifth Floor. 

Sixth Floor . 

THE TEMPLE DUNGEON . 

The Upper Dungeon... 

The Lower Dungeon.. 

ENDING THE ADVENTURE 

Escape From Frog Island . 

Future Pastimes. 



TSR, Inc. 

PNOOOCTS Ot YOU* IMAGINATION * 


PREROLLED CHARACTERS 



2 
2 
3 
. 4 

. 5 
. 5 
. 6 
. 6 
. 8 

11 

n 

11 

12 

15 

16 
16 
16 

17 

18 
18 
21 

25 

26 
32 
35 
35 
38 
38 

40 

40 

44 

47 

47 

47 

48 


Primed in U.S.A. 
ISBN 0-88038-317-8 


9175 








































DM BACKGROUND 


Scop! If you are plan to participate in this 
module as a player, read no further. 

This module is die second in a series of ad 
ventures set in the mythical kingdom of 
Blackmoor. Blackmoor was the first cam 
paign setting ever created for use in a fantasy 
rolc-plaving game. The Blackmoor presented 
in this module is a substantially revised and 
expanded setting based on material devel 
oped for that venerable campaign. In view of 
this fact, it is perhaps fitting to note that the 
events, places, and characters resident in 
Blackmoor exist some 3,000 years before 
those described in any other D&D(r) fantasy 
role-playing game material. 

The adventure in this module is designed 
for a party of five to eight player characters 
(PCs) of the 10th to 14lh levels of experience. 
A balance of character classes will be needed 
since the PCs will face many problems, each 
of which may be most easily and effectively 
solved by a character of a different class. A 
number of prerolled characters are included 
for use in the event that there aren't enough 
PCs of the correct levels and classes available. 

Rcad this entire module before playing. 
There are some plot elements that won't be 
fully developed until late in the module, but 
for which the groundwork must be laid much 
earlier. If you arc not already aware of these 
elements before play begins, you won't be 
able to plant clues or build drama as effec 
tively. 

Study the maps while reading the area keys 
in the module booklet. These keys refer to en 
counter locations by giving first the number 
of the map on which the area is located and 
then the area's number (e.g., 2-13). Many of 
these keys include boxed information that 
should be read aloud to the players when they 
enter the area. Unboxed information is pro 
vided only as a guide for you, the DM; it is 
not read to the players. While every effort has 
been made to provide all information needed 
for play, you may want to add extra details to 
the boxed descriptions for atmosphere. 

These abbreviations are used in the module: 

AC " Armour Class; MV " Movement 
Rate; HD " Hit Dice or Level; hp w cur 
rent hit points; #AT - Number of attacks; D 
= Damage; AL = Alignment; F = Fighter; 
T " Thief; M " Magic User; C = Cleric; 
OL - Open Locks; FT - Find Traps; RT 
* Remove Traps; PP = Pick Pockets; MS 
" Move Silently; CW = Climb Walls (Sheer 
Surfaces); HS = Hide in Shadows; HN = 
Hear Noise. 

Nonplaycr characters (NPCs) are introduced 


throughout the text where they are most 
likely to be encountered. When introduced, 
their statistics are shown in an abbreviated 
form with combat and movement adjust 
ments already computed. 

And now-welcome to Blackmoor. 

THE KING RETURNS 

Full 3,000 years before the crowning of the 
first Emperor of Thyalis, there existed the 
great Empire of Thonia. Rich and decadant, 
it ruled much of the civilized world, in the far 
north of the empire was a vigorous border 
province called Blackmoor. There, far from 
the ken of the great wizards of the Thonian 
capital, men discovered wild magic, stronger 
than any at the empire's center. By blending 
this magic with the arts of science, they 
learned to forge tools of awesome power that 
would one day give them mastery over the 
empire of which they had once been only the 
least part. 

But the power of Blackmoorian science was 
not even a glimmer in the eye of a few sages 
when Uther Andahar led the Great Rebellion 
against Thonia and became the first king of 
the fledgling realm of Blackmoor. The tale of 
Uther's rebellion and of the vile plot that 
nearly cost him his new-won crown is told in 
the first module in this series, DAI (AD 
VENTURES IN BLACKMOOR). It has no 
place here. Suffice it to say, that Blackmoor 
fought and won a prolonged war against the 
Thonian Empire and a host of other enemies. 
In the aftermath of that war and even as his 
old enemies prepared for a new assault on 
Blackmoor, King Uther set about ending the 
lawlessness that had grown up in the land 
during the terrible fighting just past 

This was no inconsiderable task. Still only 
lightly settled after centuries of human habi 
tation, Blackmoor was an area of small bar 
onies and freeholds that lived by trade and 
the exploitation of mineral and timber re 
sources. As was to be expected of an area still 
half frontier, life there was hard and danger 
ous. Settlements were few, and the king's 
writ often stretched no further than the hori 
zon under the eyes of one of his barons. 

A wild and powerful magic permeated the 
land. The wild magic spawned monsters such 
as had not been seen inside the empire's bor 
ders in centuries. Worse, it also spawned 
things that had never been seen anywhere 
else before-gibbering horrors that killed by 
night, leaving in their wake only smashed 
timbers and the bloody remains of farm fami 
lies murdered in their passing. Nor were 
monsters the only danger. Lawless men also 


beset the countryside in the wake of war. 
Bands of freebooters, many of them deserters 
from the armies defeated by Uther, roamed 
the kingdom, living by robbery. If the realm 
was ever to know peace, monsters and men 
must both be dealt with. 

Unfortunately, Uther had other threats 
about which he must worry. The bitter foes 
that surrounded his kingdom were not long 
idle after their defeat. The Skandaharian 
raiders sent regular and frequent scouting 
parties into Blackmoor to learn if it might yet 
be safe to again reave its fat coasts. The bi 
zarre and evil superbeing that called itself the 
Egg of Coot flooded the realm with his agents 
and spies. From west of the broad Misauga 
River, the expanding Afridhi Empire pressed 
against the young kingdom's borders, often 
sending raiding parties into the Barony of the 
Lakes, the province that guarded the fragile 
western frontier. To the southeast, the Iron 
Duke, ambitious military governer of what 
had recently become the Thonian Empire's 
northernmost province, hatched plots within 
plots, all designed to weaken Blackmoor. 
With these threats commanding his atten 
tion, the king was unable to devote his full en 
ergy to the task of cleansing his realm of 
lawlessness and undoing the damage that in 
evitably follows in the wake of war. 

Though severely handicapped, Uther had 
two important resources in his campaign 
against banditry and terror: the King's Com 
panions and The Fetch. 

Among those who served Uther were a few 
remarkable individuals called the King's 
Companions. Knights, mercenaries, rogues, 
idealists-the Companions were all manner 
of men. Having joined Uther during the 
early days of the Great Rebellion, by its end, 
they had become his trusted lieutenants. 
Among the Companions were some of the 
best generals and warriors in the North-and 
all were fanatically devoted to Uther and his 
cause. Many now ruled new baronies created 
for them by a grateful king, and they were en 
ergetic in hunting down those who violated 
the king's law 

Uther's second advantage in his campaign 
of pacification was an elderly gentlemen 
named Fletcher William-and an organiza 
tion that was much more than it seemed. As 
Keeper of the Peace at the University of 
Blackmoor, Fletcher William controlled a 
staff of 40 full-time bailiffs and 40 student 
auxiliaries whose salaries were paid by the 
university. Only a handful of these individ 
uals were actually employed keeping the 
peace at the university, though. The rest op 
erated under Fletcher William's direction as 


2 



DM BACKGROUND 



undercover agents of Uther and his Regency 
Council. Fletcher William and his few score 
talented agents were highly successful in 
thwarting the enemies of the realm, and those 
few persons in die know referred to the el 
derly Keeper of the Peace as The Fetch in 
tribute to the seemingly supernatural skills he 
exhibited as Blackmoor's chief spook. The 
Fetch's agents were often called in when local 
authorities failed to eliminate outlaw bands. 
Using their proven techniques of infiltration 
and sneak attack, The Fetch's agents almost 
always succeeded where others had failed. 

Using his two great advantages, the king 
was able to overcome all obstacles and bring 
the first faint glimmerings of a new peace and 
prosperity to the land. For the first time in 
centuries, men had real hope that the sav 
agery that had characterized the North since 
it was First colonized might be coming to an 
end. Then Uther was abducted by agents of 
the Iron Duke, and. in the year that it took to 
locate and rescue him, the land reverted to its 
former state. The king returned to his throne 
to find all of his work undone and the king 
dom in worse straits than ever. Undaunted by 
this setback, he rolled up the royal sleeves 
and once again set about bringing peace to 
the land. Even as he did so, disaster struck 
from a totally unexpected quarter. 

THE LADY VANISHES 

When Han Alcford, Baron of the Lakes died 
Fighting for Blackrooor against the empire, 
the accession of his daughter, Rissa, was op 
posed by those who felt that a woman barely 
out of her minority could not hope to rule the 
frontier fief of a frontier realm. But Rissa 
Aleford soon proved her critics wrong. Hav 
ing been trained in the arts of war by none 
other than the Great Svenny, foremost of the 
King's Companions, she could out-ride, out- 
shoot and out-fight half the barons of the 
realm and most of the soldiers of her fief. 
More importantly, she was an avid learner 
who had absorbed from Svenny, Uther, and 
her lather most of the principles of command 
in peace and war. In fact, she was uniquely 
fitted to lead the barony that guarded the 
realm's western frontier against the depreda 
tions of the implacable Afridhi. Within six 
months of her accession, young Rissa had 
won the hearts of her soldiers and become one 
of Blackmoor's foremost leaders. 

In truth, the Barony of the Lakes needed 
the strongest and steadiest possible hand 
upon its tiller. If Blackmoor was a frontier, 
then the Barony of the Lakes was practically a 
wilderness. For a hundred miles east of the 


Misauga and south of the Amber Channel, 
the land was cut by sluggish winding creeks, 
dotted with stagnant lakes and overgrown by 
dense pestiferous fens. Within this tangled 
wilderness, armies could disappear without a 
trace, and small outlaw bands could hide al 
most indefinitely. This was the Great Dismal 
Swamp, the area for which the young Baron 
ess of the Lakes was responsible to Uther. 
Throughout this untamed land, she must en 
force the king's writ and offer what protection 
she could to a handful of major setdements 
and several score other dwelling places- 
some so small as to be nameless. 

Even in the best of times, it required con 
stant patrolling to contain the local bandits 
and hunt down the monstrous life forms that 
struggled out of the swamps to prey on hu 
mankind. With the Afridhi threat to the fron 
tier on the rise, the times were hardly calm. 
Once the needs of border security were met, 
few soldiers were left for the vital swamp pa 
trols. The situation demanded the utmost 
skill and cunning, and even Rissa's consider 
able talents were challenged by it. Almost all 
of her time was spent in the field, hunting 
down Afridhi raiders or local bandits. 

Meanwhile, the bandit threat continued to 
grow, becoming exceptionally severe along 
the banks of Loch Gloomen, on the barony's 


southwest frontier. Here, entire villages were 
disappearing, as large bands were now not 
only robbing but also abducting the popu 
lace There was evidence that a single group 
was behind these mass abductions. 

When 25 of Rissa's subjects disappeared 
from the village of Burnt, the baroness deter 
mined to personally follow the trail of the 
raiders and finally bring them to book. With 
a company of soldiers, she tracked them 
across the Big Muddy and almost to the 
banks of the Root River. There, her party 
was ambushed by a vastly superior force. 
When the melee was over, Rissa and her per 
sonal guard were prisoners. Two men es 
caped. The others were dead. 

A week after the baroness plunged into the 
wilderness, a single survivor reached the set- 
demcnl of South Pim with the news that 
Rissa was taken. Like wildfire, the word 
spread. When it reached Uther at Blackmoor, 
the king was devastated. It was not just that 
Rissa was a valued lieutenant. The loss was 
more personal. Though none knew it, the 
young king had long been enamored of his 
baroness. Were it not for the fact that she 
cherished a youthful infatuation for Uthcr's 
liegeman Svenny, Uther would have long 
since pressed his suit. Since Svenny seemed 
oblivious of the lady's affection, though, 


3 



DM BACKGROUND 


Uther concluded that time would still her 
passions and make her open to his own pro 
posal. Now time had run out. 

Bowing to the will of his Regency Council, 
who insisted that he not endanger himself by 
leading a rescue, Uther instead sent the Great 
Svcnny and a large company of royal guards 
men to locate the site of the ambush and pick 
up the scent. Bui the trail was cold. Svenny 
and his men spent two weeks fruitlessly 
prowling the banks of the Root River and 
Loch Gloomcn. without result. The sight of 
the ambush was empty except for the stripped 
corpses of her soldiers. The enemy dead had 
been carried off, and Rissa Alcford and her 
companions had vanished into the depths of 
the Great Dismal Swamp. 

THE SPOOK PONDERS 

Svenny and his men did find one possible 
clue, though its significance was unclear. 
When they examined the bodies of the dead 
soldiers at the sight of the ambush, they 
found beside one a curious cloak brooch un 
like any they had ever seen. It was in the 
shape of a frog holding in its mouth a small 
struggling human figure. 

There was consternation in Blackmoor 
when Svenny returned with news of his fail 
ure The king was as distraught as a man of 
his iron will ever allowed himself to be. But 
there was a kingdom to rule, so he hid his 
feelings and took the necessary action, ap 
pointing the wizard Jallapiene to take tempo 
rary control of the barony. 

Meanwhile, The Fetch's agents pursued 
their only clue-the brooch. After weeks of 
searching and questioning, they found an an 
swer. A cleric in the city of Maus had seen a 
similar brooch. It was the symbol of an ob 
scure century-old religious sect that had be 
come active in the last few years. 

The sect's theology was peculiar, at best, 
and it had never attracted many adherents. 
Basically, it preached that the existing senti 
ent species were all too weak and unadaptable 
for long-term survival and must be sup 
planted by a new intelligent species bred 
from-frogs. The sect's ''great work" was to 
ceaselessly labor to create this new species. 
Once success was attained, the church hierar 
chy would govern the new race of amphibian 
"superbeings." 

Since the sect had, until recendy, been dis 
creet in its activities, none could gauge its 
size. In fact, little was known about it save 
that it was militant, mysterious and ruled by 
a clerical brotherhood that resided in a frog 
shaped temple somewhere deep in the Great 


Dismal Swamp. The name of the sect was the 
Order of the Frog. Its leaders called them 
selves the Monks of the Swamp. 

After much additional questioning. The 
Fetch's agents discovered one other thing. At 
least one well-known figure in Blackmoor 
had visited the Monks of the Swamp and 
been gifted by them. The gentleman's name 
was Miklos Haruska, and he was the Guild- 
master of the Thieves' Guild at Vcstfold and a 
prominent citizen of sorts in Blackmoor. 
Armed with this lead, the angry king had 
Master Haruska (popularly known as "Old 
Slyboots") brought to Blackmoor Castle to 
explain his fraternization with a sect that had 
proved itself an enemy of the crown 

After a lengthy interview, in which Uther 
made it clear that Haruska would cither help 
rescue Rissa or be shortened by a head. Old 
Slyboots spilled all that he knew about the or 
der. Unfortunately, his knowledge did not in 
clude the location of its headquarters since he 
was blindfolded and taken by a roundabout 
way during his one visit to the Monks of the 
Swamp. But the thief admitted that he had 
been retained by the order to recruit some 
henchmen from the realm's small criminal 
underworld. After only a modicum of stall 
ing, Harusca supplied the name of his contact 
in Vcstfold. 

According to Haruska, the "Froggies," as 
they were called within the Thieves' Guild, 
were very active just now in recruiting both 
new members and hirelings for service at the 
temple. Since recruits were conveyed to the 
temple under conditions of utmost secrecy, it 
was unlikely that any could locate it, but per 
haps the king's agents could tail them. Thus 
speculated Haruska. 

With this information in hand, the king 
and The Fetch hatched a plot to infiltrate the 
Order of the Frog and learn the location of its 
temple. They could use only agents who were 
not known in Blackmoor. Reliable agents 
long part of The Fetch's organization might 
be recognized and arouse suspicion. On the 
other hand, the kind of locals who would ex 
cite no suspicion would scarcely be reliable. 
Trusted men who were not known to the 
Froggies would have to be found 

Once agents were selected. Old Slyboots 
would be prevailed upon to introduce them to 
the order's recruiters. The agents would then 
travel to the temple as hirelings of the order. 
Upon reaching their destination, they would 
rescue Rissa and escape to the Barony of the 
Lakes, where they would give Jallapieric the 
information he needed to locate and destroy 
the the temple. Just to be on the safe side, a 
second team of agents would track the first 


team to the temple. 

Before this plot could be put into effect, 
though. The Fetch had to locate the right 
agents for the job. Boldness and cunning 
would count for much, but familiar faces 
were out Where, then, to find proven adven 
turers who would also be unknown to the or 
der's recruiters? The answer followed hard 
on the heels of the question, popping into The 
Fetch's mind in a sudden flash of insight. Of 
course. The gate. The gate in the lower cellar 
of Blackmoor's Comeback Inn. The gate that 
opened onto another age. He could recruit 
adventurers from out of the gate. 


4 



BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 


This adventure begins with a meeting in the 
Comeback Inn at which The Fetch tells the 
PCs about Rissa's loss and recruits them to 
rescue her. However, before this meeting can 
take place, you must first bring the PCs to 
gether in the same room of the inn. Each of 
the PCs can arrive at the inn in one of Black- 
moor) and how that adventure ended Each 
of these methods of arrival is detailed in one 
of the three sections that immediately follow. 
You may need to use more than one of the 
methods in order to brmg everyone together. 
Once the PCs are all in the same room, use 
the fourth section in this part of the adventure 
to conduct the meeting with The Fetch. 

In the back of this module, you will find a 
list of prerolled characters who can be played 
in this adventure. These are the same charac 
ters found in DAI (Adventures In 
Biackmoor), but their characteristics have 
not been adjusted to reflect any changes re 
sulting from that earlier adventure. Before 
using any of them that you used in DAI, you 
must make any appropriate changes in their 
levels or possessions. 

A REUNION IN CORUNGLAIN 

If you have played module DAI (Adventures 
In Biackmoor), and one or more of the PCs 
who is participating in this adventure re 
turned to his own time at the end of that ear 
lier adventure, then use this section to bring 
to the Comeback Inn all PCs not in Biack 
moor. At the start of play, all PCs who re 
turned to their own time and who are 
participating in this adventure are gathered 
in an inn in the city of Corunglain. With 
them arc any PCs who were not involved in 
the previous adventure, they are also present. 
These new PCs have fallen in with those PCs 
who were involved in the original adventure 
and have become their companions during a 
prolonged stay in Corunglain. At the start of 
the adventure, read this passage to those 
players whose PCs are in Corunglain 


It's been a hot summer in Corunglain. No 
rain and a sun that by mid-morning has 
the pavement hot enough to fry an egg. 
And out of the Broken Lands blows the 
kind of hot dry wind that makes mousy lit 
tle serving girls sharpen their kitchen 
knives and speculatively eye their lovers' 
necks. 

None of you could say for sure why it is 
you're still in town. It can't be Corun 
glain's inherent charm because the place 
hasn't got any. Since the great trea 


sure hunt last year sent half the city on a 
wild goose chase after the Inn Between the 
Worlds, Corunglain has sort of fallen 
apart. Service is lousy, the measures are 
short, and the diversions are anything but 
diverting. 

But here you be, waiting for something 
to break. Call it a hunch, if you like. A 
whisper in the back of each of your heads 
is telling you that Corunglain is where you 
ought to be. Something, it says, is going to 
happen here. 

Then Something does happen. Proba 
bly the last thing in the world that you'd 
expect. It all starts one stifling hot morn 
ing in Cheap Street. You're sitting in the 
common room of a dive called the Conviv 
ial Cockatrice washing down a very medi 
ocre breakfast with an even worse ale 
when two vaguely familiar figures enter 
from the street. Despite the heat, both arc 
muffled in hooded cloaks that hide their 
faces. After a brief conversation with the 
barkcep. they stride purposefully toward 
your table. 

The foremost figure reaches into the 
folds of his robe and draws forth a gold 
coin. With a flick of his hand, he tosses it 
onto the center of table, where it rolls in a 
tight circle for a moment before coming to 
a stop in a bare space between the dishes 
of cold greasy mutton and roasted meal 
ies. The coin is stamped with the profile of 
a bearded man. Wreathing the man's face 
arc the words "Ulhcr, Once And Al 
ways." 


The PCs should, of course, recognize this as a 
Thonian coin from 4,000 years ago. 


The man who tossed the coin now opens 
his cloak and throws back his hood to 
show himself-and turns out to be no man 
at all. Instead, before you stands a tall, 
blond, blue-eyed female. Her name is 
Ruda Malcfor, and she is an agent of the 
kingdom of Biackmoor, a realm that 
hasn't existed for a good 3,000 years. 
Reaching out with a booted toe, this 
lovely but deadly anachronism drags over 
an empty chair and sprawls into it with 
her long legs stretched out before her. Too 
stunned for words, you mutely watch as 
she draws a dagger and deftly spears a 
joint of mutton, which she proceeds to 
munch enthusiastically. After a few bites, 
the woman speaks between mouthfuls of 
greasy meat. 


"You realize, of course, that this is re 
ally stinking mutton. How do you cat this 
stuff?" 

Grimacing at the joint in her hand, she 
takes another healthy bite, then nods to 
ward her still-hooded companion. 

"You boys remember Veslo, right?" 

The person referred to nods in your di 
rection. It is Veslo Meridan, the half-elven 
woman who, like Malcfor, is one of the top 
agents of The Fetch, lost Btackmoor's 
chief spook and your former host at the 
Comeback Inn. Meridan leans against the 
wall with a kind of boneless grace that is 
deceptive. Though she appears relaxed, 
her eyes never stop scanning the room, 
and her hand never moves more than a 
few inches from the sword that is visible 
where her cloak hangs partly open. Before 
you can ask the elf to sit, Malefor resumes 
her bantering, one-sided conversation. 

"So what have you lowlifes been doing, 
anyway? Whatever it is, it can't pay very 
well. Mind if I have some of that ale?" 
Without waiting for your answer, Malcfor 
grabs the ironstone pitcher from its tray 
and splashes a quantity of the bitter brew 
into a pewter mug. The woman starts to 
take a long swallow, shudders, and then 
suddenly stops and slams the mug down 
on the table's scarred planks with a re 
sounding thud. She glowers at the pitcher 
and then looks pityingly into your eyes. 

"Well, so that's what ale tastes like in 
the future. You have my sympathy. But, 
listen. I didn't come here to have my 
stomach insulted. Veslo and I have got a 
proposition for you folk, and, if what you 
say is true, we've traveled 4,000 years to 
make it." 

Malefor picks up the gold coin from the 
table, flips it in into the air, catches it and 
holds it up before your eyes between 
thumb and forefinger. 

"How'd you like to make a few thou 
sand more of these? No difficulties. Not 
too much danger. Nothing very taxing. 
All you have to do is take a little trip. In 
terested?" 


After some questioning by the PCs and more 
bantering conversation on her part, Malefor 
at last gets to the point. 


"I can't tell you what exactly it's all about 
because I don't know myself. All I can tell 
you is that The Fetch sent me to find you 
and bring you in. He wants to talk to you 


5 












BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 


himself. So. For making one more trip 
through the gate and just listening to what 
he has to say, he'll pay you 3,000 gold 
pieces each. Those you keep even if you 
don't like what you hear. And, if you do a 
little job for him, they'll be a lot more. 
That's the deal. A week or so on the 
trail-then through the gate-then have a 
short talk with Fetch, pick up your 3,000 
yellow ladies, and get a decent meal. 
Then, if you don't like the proposition, wc 
pop you back through the gate to your 
own time. End of story." 


If the PCs remind Malefor that they can't 
exit the inn where the gate is located, Malefor 
assures them that it's all taken care of. At the 
Fetch's request, Fredigar Cripps has made 
Malefor and Veslo honorary employees of the 
Rlackmoor Comeback Inn for the duration of 
their present mission. As such, they can get 
the players in and out of the building contain 
ing the time gate. 

If the PCs ask how Malefor and Meridan 
managed to find them, Malefor explains that 
Jallapierie and Alwyn Morland figured out 
how to use the amulet that controls the gate, 
and popped them through at a time that they 
judged to be a few weeks after that at which 
the PCs returned home. Alwyn will be pop 
ping through the gate in a few weeks to pick 
them up and take them to Blackmoor. The 
only problem is that she isn't quite sure of the 
exact setting to use for the return trip, so 
there may be a little (not much) trial and er 
ror involved. 

If the players don't readily agree to come 
back to Blackmoor, Malefor continues to ar 
gue until she finally breaks down their resist 
ance. Then she insists on starting the journey 
immediately since she and Veslo have their 
horses and a couple of pack mules loaded with 
food standing outside. 

After a short trip through the Broken 
Lands, the PCs and the two agents reach the 
Inn Between the Worlds. If all of the PCs 
participating in the adventure arc part of the 
party, then you can run this journey as part of 
the adventure, complete with random en 
counters as per the D&D(r) Expert Set. If, any 
of the PCs are not part of this party, then you 
should not describe the journey to the Inn Be 
tween the Worlds. Instead, simply tell the 
players that after a journey of about a week 
they reach their destination. 

A recent rockfall has left a new path to the 
top of the chimney on which the Inn Between 
the Worlds sits. The inn, itself, is as described 
in the FURTHER ADVENTURES section 


of DAI (Adventures In Blackmoor). Once 
the players enter the inn, they must wait a 
short time for Alwyn. The witch appears after 
1-4 days, accompanied by six soldiers. 

Soldiers (6): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 6; hp 25 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (cross 
bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F6; ML 10; AL 
L; XP 60 each. 

The soldiers wear blackened armor and black 
tunics emblazoned with the silver Hawk of 
Andahar. Each soldier has 20 quarrels and 
carries 10 gold pieces. These are Uther's 
guardsmen, and they arc assigned to protect 
Alwyn and the amulet. They take their orders 
from the witch. If Alwyn is killed or incapaci 
tated, they take their orders from Malefor. If 
Malefor is killed or incapacitated, they take 
their orders from Meridan. 

Immediately upon arriving, Alwyn gathers 
up the party and tries to get them through the 
gate into Blackmoor. The soldiers stay with 
Alwyn, letting the PCs go through the gate 
first. The witch's first attempt to get to Black 
moor fails spectacularly, and the party steps 
out of the gate and into the lower cellar of the 
Inn Between the Worlds (Room 8 on the DA! 
floor plan) where it is attacked by two fire gi 
ants and six hellhounds. 

Fire Giants (2): AC 4; HD 11 + 2*; hp 48 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (batde 
axe); Save Fll; ML 9; AL C; XP 60. 
Each fire giant carries a big, double-bitted 
battle axes and wears heavy bronze ar 
mor. 

Hellhounds (6): AC 4; HD 4; hp 16 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT I bite or 1 breath; D 
1-6 or special; Save F4; ML 9; AL C; XP 
175 each. 

Once the fire giants and their hellhounds are 
disposed of. Alwyn again tries to reach Black 
moor. This time, she is successful, and the 
party arrives safely in the lower cellar of 
Blackmoor's Comeback Inn. From there, the 
PCs making up the party are taken to their 
old rooms on the inn's second (loot for a re 
union with those PCs who stayed in Black 
moor at the end of their previous adventure. 

A SUMMONS IN BLACKMOOR 

If you played the first module in this series, 
any PCs who survived and stayed in Black 
moor are now residents of that land. Rissa 
disappears a month after the end of the pre 
vious adventure. A month after that, Uther 
and The Fetch hatch their plot, and. shortly 
thereafter. The Fetch requests a meeting with 


the PCs in their quarters at the Comeback 
Inn. where they have been spending a quiet 
vacation as guests of the crown. Since The 
Fetch has intended all along to use the PCs as 
undercover agents, he has allowed the rumor 
to spread that they are being detained in 
Blackmoor for further questioning in the 
matter of the king's abduction. Meanwhile, 
they have had the run of the inn and the 
town, having a good time at crown expense. 
Now The Fetch is ready to collect a service in 
exchange for all of the gold he has spent. Just 
before The Fetch arrives for his meeting, any 
PCs who were not involved in the previous 
adventure or who did not stay in Blackmoor 
when it was over arrive at the Comeback Inn 
and join the PCs already there. 

A MEETING IN GLANTRI 

There arc two situations in which you will 
need to use this section. 

1. If you have not as yet played module DAI 
(Adventures In Blackmoor), you can still 
play this module by using this section to in 
troduce the PCs to Blackmoor. However, 
please note that once a character is used dur 
ing play of DA2, you will be unable to use 
that character to play DAI. If you decide to 
go ahead and play this module without hav 
ing played DAI, use this secuon to introduce 
the players to Blackmoor. 

2. In the unlikely event that all of the PCs 
who played DAI were killed or remained in 
Blackmoor at the end of that adventure, use 
this section to introduce any desired new PCs 
to Blackmoor. 

At the start of this adventure, all of the new 
PCs are gathered in an inn in the city ofGlan- 
tri, shown on map #2 of the D&D(r) Expert 
Set Read this passage to those players whose 
PCs are iq Glantri. 


Glantri. End of the short but dangerous 
road from Corunglain. After a dreary 
week guarding a fat spice caravan as it 
crawled through the blasted moonscape of 
the Broken Lands, its good to get back to 
civilization. Now, you can spend a few 
weeks relaxing, gathering the news and 
squandering the small fortune in gold you 
got for playing bodyguard to that nervous 
merchant and his wares. At least, that's 
your plan. 

Then something happens that changes 
your prospective on the situation. Late 
one dark, misty night, you're sitting in an 


6 






BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 


otherwise deserted tavern called the Blue 
Gremlin, hefting a few mugs and swap 
ping lies. It's an unpretentious dump in 
one of those neighborhoods where the 
City Watch patrols in groups of five or 
more, and it's not the sort of place you'd 
normally be caught dead in. But you've 
got gold in your purses and it's been a 
thirsty week-and this is the only place 
open at this time of night. So you ignore 
the oppressive heat in the windowless 
thirty-foot square room and the intolera 
ble stench being given off by the smoking 
oil lamps suspended from the sooty ceiling 
ten feet above your heads-and you try to 
have a good time. 

The grubby little tavern is just starting 
to take on a rosy glow of relaxed good fel 
lowship when you have some unexpected 
company. Suddenly, the only door bursts 
open and what looks like a score of the 
most unpleasant characters you've seen in 
quite awhile pile through the doorway and 
make for your table with mayhem in their 
eyes. 


The "unpleasant characters" are a group of 
local hireswords who have been individually 
recruited by Blackmoorian agents to attack 
the PCs. Treat them as brigands. 

Hireswords (20): AC 4 (chainmail and 
shield); HD 1; HP 5 each; MV 120' (40'); 
#AT t; D 1-8 (sword); Save FI; ML 8; AL 
C; XP 10 each. 

Each hiresword carries a purse containing 10 
silver pieces and 25 gold pieces. The gold 
pieces arc of a type that the PCs have never 
before seen. For one thing, the coins are curi 
ously uniform in size and weight. For an 
other, both faces contain the profile of a 
bearded man wreathed with the words 
' Uther, Once and Always." These are Tho- 
riian coins from the Blackmoor of 4,000 years 
previous. 

The PCs should be able to dispose of this riff 
raff without much difficulty. Once they have 
killed or driven off their attackers and looted 
the bodies (discovering the Thonian coins), 
read the following: 


You are piling your loot on the table, spec 
ulating about who your victims were and 
why they attacked you when a voice from 
the open doorway intones "Actually, I 
think I can answer your questions." 
When you turn toward the speaker, you 
find yourselves facing a tall, blond, blue 



eyed female. Beneath a silver-gray elven 
cloak, she wears a fine shirt of gleaming 
chainmail. At her side hangs a heavy 
looking sword of archaic pattern. 

The lady ignores you while she uses a 
wickedly curved dagger to dig the seeds 
from a pomegranate she is holding in her 
left hand. After a moment, she ever so 
carefully lifts the razor-sharp blade free of 
the pomegranate and uses it to feed a row 
of fleshy hlood-rcd seeds into her open 
mouth, throwing back her gold-crowned 
head to let the sweet red juice trickle down 
her throat. When she lowers her head, a 
stream of carmine juice stains her chin, 
and she smiles insolendy like some great 
hunting cat that has just tasted the first 
blood of a new-killed antelope. 

Stepping into the room, the woman 
once more worries at the pomegranate. As 
she walks toward you, digging away at the 
fruit, another tall gray-cloaked figure si 
lently steps into the vacant doorway. The 
newcomer has a hood pulled low over his 
face and holds a cocked crossbow, which 
he keeps aimed at you but makes no move 
to use. 

"As to who this carrion was," the blond 
woman says, toeing aside the body of one 
of your late assailants," he and his friends 
were just some local talent that nobody is 


going to miss. As to why they attacked 
you, it's very simple." 

Dropping the shell of the pomegranate 
on the floor, the woman reaches into her 
purse with her left hand and draws forth a 
coin, which she tosses onto the table with a 
flick of her wrist. The coin rolls in a tight 
circle for a moment before coming to a 
stop. There is a stunned silence. Staring 
up at you from the coin is the the profiled 
face of a bearded man. Wreathing it are 
the words "Uther, Once And Always." 
The strange coin is the same as the gold 
pieces you took from your assailants, and 
it is like nothing you've ever seen before. 
As you puzzle over this turn of events, the 
blond woman pulls up a chair, sits at your 
table and slides her dagger back into its 
boot sheath Looking up at you from this 
vulnerable position and lacing her fingers 
behind her head, she breaks the silence. 

"That trash there attacked you because 
I hired them to." Having said this, the 
woman glances at each of you in turn, as if 
daring you to object to the fact that she has 
nearly gotten you killed. Evidently satis 
fied with what she secs, she nods her head 
and continues. 

"My partner and I," she says, waving 
toward her companion in the doorway, 
"arc looking for a few good men. 1 was 


7 










BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 


told that you boys qualified. Bui I had to 
be sure. That merchant whose spice boxes 
you just brought in was singing your 
praises to anyone who would listen down 
at 'he Merchants' Consortium. Seems 
you folks routed a few nasty critters along 
the way from CorungJain and refrained 
from stealing the gentleman's wares as 
you easily could have That tells me that 
you are competant and honest. But, since 
fat merchants aren't exactly the best judge 
of fighting men, 1 had to sec for myself. So 
I hired this riffraff to take you on where 1 
could watch from the street. And, 1 must 
say that you are every bit as good as that 
great tub of guts said you were. Anyway, 
I've got a proposition for you. Want to 
hear it?" 


Presumably the PC's are interested, though 
the blond woman may have to overcome 
some objections from any soreheads in the 
party. Once these are overcome, the lady 
presents her proposition. 


"I'm Ruda Malefor. My partner over 
there is Veslo Meridan. She and I work for 
a man called The Fetch. You've never 
heard of him. He takes care of special 
problems for a realm that I'm sure you've 
never visited. Anyway, we have a special 
problem that needs the attentions of some 
folks like you. 

More than that, I can't say. Except that 
if you'll take a little trip with me, we'll see 
my boss and he'll tell you about the deal 
himself. The trip should take about two 
weeks, and he'll pay each of you 3,000 
gold pieces to make it. That's yours to 
keep even if you don't like what you hear. 
And, if you do this little job for him, 
they'll be a lot more. That's the deal. A 
couple of weeks on the trail-then have a 
short talk with The Fetch and pick up 
your 3,000 yellow ladies. Then, if you 
don't like the proposition, you're free to 
head back here with no hard feelings and a 
lot richer. What do you say?" 


If the players don't readily agree to see The 
Fetch, Malefor continues to argue until she 
breaks down their resistance. Once she does 
so, read the following to the players: 


And so, you once again find yourselves in 
the Broken Lands This blasted stretch of 
country isn't really very big, and it 
shouldn't take more than a week to reach 


any place within it, but the mysterious 
Ruda Malefor and her companion take 
you by roundabout ways that leave you 
lost and confused. 

Finally, after almost two weeks, you 
climb a tall chimney of broken rock that 
looks very much like a dozen other rock 
formations that you have passed during 
the last fortnight. But at the top is a shal 
low bowl of black stone, and sitting square 
in the middle of the bowl is a two story 
building. The signboard in front of the 
building proclaims that it is "The Come 
back Inn." 

This, says your grinning blond guide, is 
your destination. With hardly a pause, 
she leads you through an open door and 
down a ramp into the dark interior of what 
seems to be a stable. From there, you 
wind your way through a series of corri 
dors until, at last, you come to a long, 
rock-walled room littered with refuse. In 
side an archway in the room's north wall 
boils a luminous fog. 

Haifa dozen soldiers lounge about the 
room. They wear blackened armor and 
carry silver shields emblazoned with a 
black hawk. A short, boyish-looking 
woman in elegant men's clothing stands 
before the archway. She is holding an am 
ulet in one hand and concentrating might 
ily on it, touching its face from time to 
time and mumbling to herself. Suddenly, 
she looks up, mumbles more loudly, and 
turns in your direction. With a curt ges 
ture, she motions you forward. 

As you look questioningly at each other, 
you notice that Ruda Malefor has tied a 
rope around her waist and is stalking to 
ward the arch. Dropping the hempen coils 
at her feet, she hurriedly instructs you to 
grab the rope before entering what she 
calls "the gate." Once inside, she says, 
you must keep hold of the rope and walk 
straight ahead. With this caution, your 
guide turns and enters the roiling fog. 
Then, it is your turn. 

The fog is cold. It bums like the driest 
ice. Around you, a wind howls, carrying 
on its breath the sound of distaiu batdes. 
As you stare to left and right, you can 
dimly see fell monsters and decadent rev 
elers half hidden in the mists that boil 
around you. From time to time, thunder 
assails your cars, and the swirling fog is lit 
by an eldritch light. Finally, after a short 
eternity, you step from the mists. 

The room before you seems to be the 
same as the one you just left. But the 


refuse is gone, as is the faint odor of decay 
that seemed to permeate the room you just 
left. This room is clean and neat and occu 
pied by a much larger troop of soldiers 
Though they are dressed like the soldiers 
in the room you just left, they are not the 
same men! 

As you are puzzling this out, Veslo, the 
soldiers you just left, and the short female 
in men's clothing enter the new chamber. 
The female momentarily turns toward the 
wall of fog and fiddles with her amulet. 
Facing Malefor, she says simply, "the gate 
is shut." 

At that Malefor heaves a small sigh and 
embraces all of you with her eyes. A smile 
touches her lips as she speaks. 

"Welcome to Blackmoor. I hope you'll 
understand when I tell you that I've not 
been exactly straight with you. Oh, our 
agreement is still good. You're here to lis 
ten to a proposal, and if you don't like it, 
you can go back to that tavern where I 
found you-richer by 3,000 gold pieces. 
But there is one thing that I didn't tell 
you-since had I done so, you'd have 
thought me just a trifle fey. 

"My apology, my friends. But you are 
no longer in your own world. Or, at least, 
let's say that you are no longer in your 
own time Where-rather, when -you 
are is in a time some 4,000 years before 
your birth. We arc in the cellars of the 
Comeback Inn, which sits beneath the 
castle of Blackmoor in the realm of Black 
moor, and I am an agent of his majesty 
Uther I. king of Blackmoor. That fog we 
walked through is a gate in time that we 
used to bring you back to our age. When 
you arc through here, we'll use it to take 
you back to your own age again-or you 
can stay here and make a place in our 
rime. For now, though, a night's sleep, 
and in the morning, you see The Fetch." 


A PROPOSAL IN CONFIDENCE 

When the PCs are gathered. The Fetch visits 
them in their rooms at the Comeback Inn. 
After sharing a sumptuous breakfast laid out 
in their quarters, the old man leans back in 
his chair and begins to speak. 


My friends, I have a problem. It's a very 
simple problem, really. Blackmoor has a 
lot of enemies. Some of them are very 
dangerous. At the moment, we are facing 
invasion from four directions. In this siru- 


8 













BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 


arion, we need all the help we can get. The 
one thing we don '( need is to lose any of 
our better people. 

Thai, unfortunately, is exactly what has 
happened. A few weeks ago, we lost a very 
important war leader, a young woman 
named Rissa Aleford. As Baroness of the 
Lakes, young Rissa has been our strong 
arm in the west for many years. It's a 
rough territory. Mostly swamp and deep 
forest. Strong enemies on three sides. Not 
much in the way of help that we could 
send. But Rissa held her fief with less 
trouble than others have had holding 
more settled lands. 

There was one aspect of her situation, 
though, that neither Rissa nor anyone else 
was able to do anything about. We be 
came aware of it a few years ago. but its 
importance was lost in the press of other 
matters. Until recently, we were occupied 
fighting a rather desperate war, and, after 
that, we had some other difficulties. Any 
way, this matter didn't seem all that seri 
ous at first. 

Now, well-slavery has always been a 
blight on the land, and it's become a seri 
ous problem in the last half-year. Here in 
Blackmoor. it's illegal. But the Thonian 
Empire lives by slave labor, and so do 
some of our other neighbors Over the last 
few years, we've seen more and more 
slavers operating out of the swamps along 
our southern and western borders, prey 
ing on our people. They used to content 
themselves with taking a traveler now and 
again or raiding an occasional farmstead, 
but lately they've been hitting some fairly 
big villages. Our agents in Thonia and the 
duchy report that our people are being 
bought and sold at a slave market hidden 
somewhere in the Great Dismal Swamp. 

With everything else that's going on, 
we might have ignored this situation a 
while longer. But not now. You see, young 
Rissa led a party of men after some slavers 
who had just wiped out a village in her 
barony, and she somehow managed to 
stumble into an ambush. The lone survi 
vor informs us that she and her personal 
guard were taken by the slavers, and, 
since her body wasn't found on the field, 
we believe that report to be correct 

So. What we want to do now is get the 
baroness back, along with any more of our 
people who may be in the hands of these 
scoundrels. It would be even nicer if we 
could discourage them from future depre 
dations. What would make us truly happy 


would be to catch the whole band in their 
lair and bag the lot for the headsman. 
That's where you come in. 

You see, we're pretty certain that we 
know who the slavers are-but we can't 
seem to locate their base. We're up against 
a religion, you see. A secret order. Sworn 
to silence. Very hard to penetrate. 

Speaking of silence, you understand, of 
course, that what is said in this room, 
stays in this room. Whether or not you ac 
cept my proposal, you must keep it in con 
fidence. 

Right. Here it is then. Maybe 150 years 
ago, we had a cult crop up here in the 
North. Called itself the Order of the Frog. 
Founded by a handful of dotty old 
scholars. Seems these chaps had come to 
the conclusion that all of us sentient folk 
were, shall we say, a bit outmoded- 
thought that the frogs would inherit the 
earth-decided to labor toward that end. 

Nasty bit of nonsense, of course. Not 
many people took the weird old Froggies 
seriously, then. But when the wee ones 
started to turn up missing, it seemed a bit 
more dangerous than silly. You sec, our 
funny little Froggies were into some very 
nasty practices, after all. Human sacri 
fice, and such. Anyway, some of our peo 
ple got uncommonly upset over having 
their children done in for the sake of a 
bunch of spotted croakers. In fact, they 
hung a fair number of the senior Froggic 
types before the rest of that lot packed up 
their vestments and went to live in the 
Great Dismal Swamp. 

After that, the order dropped from 
sight. Oh, every now and again, there'd 
be a rumor that some of the old boys were 
still alive or that the order was recruiting 
in the larger towns. But we never placed 
much credence in such talk. 

All that changed about five years ago. 
We didn't know it at the time, but from 
what we've heard since, there was some 
kind of change inside the order. It had sur 
vived, you see. For a century it had fes 
tered in that awful stinking swamp, 
getting more and more eccentric and be 
ing gradually forgotten. And, then, some 
one came along who had a head for 
leadership, and suddenly the order got ac 
tive again. 

We don't really know much more. Our 
informers tell us that the man calls himself 
Saint Stephen and is some kind of for 
eigner. He apparently has some very pow 
erful magic at his disposal, and the 


Froggies are deathly afraid of him. He 
was the one who started them running 
slaves. They raid our people and carry 
them off for sale to the duchy and the em 
pire. They pay in letters of credit that the 
Froggies use to buy food and weapons. 
The trade must be profitable. Rumor has 
it that, in the last year, while we've been 
preoccupied with other things, the order 
has doubled the number of people it sup 
ports at its base. 

In fact, the order is recruiting more 
people right under our noses. Not mem 
bers. Just hirelings. Adventurers, thieves, 
fighting men-all types of bold rascals. 
Apparently, Saint Stephen is assembling a 
small army at his base, a place they call 
the City of the Frog. Unfortunately for 
this Stephen fellow, we have found a 
means of sending some of our own people 
to his recruiters. 

Our idea is to use our contact to get you 
recruited by the order. We'd use our own 
people, but they might be recognized. 
Vbu, on the other hand, will be fresh faces 
who will be in no danger of discovery. Af 
ter it recruits you, the order will send you 
to the City of the Frog. Once you get 
there, you will search out and rescue Rissa 
and as many of our people as possible. 
Don't worry too much about getting them 
out of the swamp. Just get dear of the city. 
We'll have another team following you. 
Once you're clear, they'll get you home. 
They will also, by the way, guide a troop 
of soldiers to the place and clean it out 
once and for all. 

That's the mission. The pay is-well- 
generous. Shall we say, 1,000 gold pieces 
for each of you if you locate the city, 
10,000 if you rescue the baroness and 500 
gold pieces per head for any other Black- 
moorians you get out? 


The Fetch increases this offer by up to 50% if 
the PCs haggle. When money matters are set 
tled, he provides the PCs with a locket con 
taining a likeness of Rissa. He then ushers the 
three members of the backup team into the 
room and introduces them to the PCs. These 
NPC's include: 

ALWYN MORLAND 

Neutral 10th level magic-user; Str 12, Int 12; 
Wis 12; Con 18; Dcx 18; Cha 18; AC 6; 
hp 28. 

This small, elegendy dressed, boyish woman 
is both magician and bard. Alwyn carries a 
purse containing 30 gp, a jeweled dagger. 


9 





BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 


worth 300 gp, and a backpack containing a 
lantern, a flask of oil, 10 iron rations, a tinder 
hox, and a water skin. She also has a magic 
lute, inlaid with ivory and gold filigree and 
set with a number of large, oddly shaped 
gemstones worth 9,000 gp. Once per day, by- 
playing the correct tunc, the user can weave 
any one of the magic user spells charm per 
son, sleep, hold person, charm monster, con 
fusion, or hold monster. Unbeknownst to 
Alwyn, the lute can be used in a similar fash 
ion to cast an animate dead spell or to turn 
the largest of the lute's gems into a magic jar 
(as per the magic jar spell). 

In addition to the spells she can cast with 
her lute. Alwyn knows the magic user spells 
detect magic, hold portal, read magic, detect 
evil, ESP, knock, dispel magic, fly, phantas 
mal force, dimension door, polymorph oth 
ers, remove curse, teleport, and wall of stone. 

RUDA MALEFOR 

Lawful 10th level fighter; Str 12; Int 14; Wis 
13; Con 9; Dex 12; Cha 12; AC 4; hp 38. 

As The Fetch's top agent, Ruda leads the 
backup team. She wears elvcn boots and rug 
ged loosely cut pale gray traveling clothes. 
Beneath these garments, she wears chainmail 
armor. She is armed with a dagger and a 
sword +1, *2 against spell users and carries 
a backpack containing two water skins. 15 
iron rations, a rope of climbing, a bag of 
holding containing 200 gold pieces and 100 
silver pieces, a flask of oil, a lantern, a vial of 
holy water, and three holy symbols. 

VESLO MERIDAN 

Lawful 10th level elf; Str 10; Int 14; Wis 11; 

Con 12; Dex 13; Cha 9; AC 1; hp 37. 

Ruda Malefor's constant companion is a re 
clusive individual, who always wears an el 
vcn cloak with the cowl pulled far forward to 
hide her face. Beneath her cloak. Veslo wears 
plate mail + / She carries a shield el, a sil 
ver dagger, a longbow with 15 arrows +1, a 
sword +2. and a purse holding 40 gold 
pieces. She also has a backpack containing a 
lantern, a flask of oil, 15 iron rations, a 50' 
length of rope, a tinder box, two water skins, 
a steel mirror, and a holy symbol. 

Veslo knows the magic user spells hold por 
tal, light, sleep (x3), invisibility, knock, web, 
mirror image, dispell magic. By, lightning 
bolt, remove curse, wall of fire, and teleport. 

According to The Fetch's plan, the members 
of the backup team will secretly track the PCs 
from Blackmoor to their destination. In order 
to assist them in this task, they have a large 
silver amulet that is attuned to a set of smaller 


silver amulets. A needle in the master amulet 
points toward the nearest attuned amulet that 
is within 12 miles of it. The Fetch gives one of 
the smaller amulets to each of the PCs, thus 
allowing the backup team to locate them. 

When the backup team has left, The Fetch 
brings Miklos Haruska into the room and in 
troduces him. On the morrow, Haruska and 
the PCs will take a short ocean voyage to 
Vcstfold where they will meet a Froggie re 
cruiter. Once Haruska has put the PCs in 
contact with the order, he will return to 
Blackmoor. He is unaware of the existence of 
a backup team. 

MIKLOS HARUSKA - OLD SLY 
BOOTS 

Chaotic 12th level thief; Str 10; Int 12; Wis 8; 

Con 13; Dex 15; Cha 10; AC 7; hp 35; OL 
66%: FT 62%; RT 58%; PP 75%; MS 

64%; CW 98%; HS 50%; HN 1-5. 

Miklos Haruska (popularly known as "Old 
Slyboots" in tribute to his reputed cunning) 
is Guild Master of the Thieves' Guild of Vest 
fold. Miklos is a mercenary rascal, whose al- 
Icgience is always for sale. That's why the 
order bargained for his services in their re 
cruiting drive, and that's also why neither 
The Fetch nor Saint Stephen trusts him. He 
has only stayed alive this long because he has 
many contacts and is useful to all sides in the 
bubbling kettle of Blackmoorian politics. 

Miklos is one of those dark, wiry types that 
tend to vaguely remind people of small, vi 
cious rodents. Only a litdc over five and a 
half feet tall, he weighs a mere 145 pounds, 
none of it fat. His close-cropped hlack hair 
frames a sharp-featured, ratty face domi 
nated by piercing black eyes. As if his appear 
ance were not striking enough, Miklos tends 
to favor capes and cloaks of mitinighi blue 
and black, cut in the old Imperial style that is 
now rarely seen in the North. 

Miklos carries a throwing dagger +2, a 
sword + I, a crossbow with 15 quarrels + 1, 
and a backpack containing his thieves' tools, 

15 iron rations, a 50' length of rope, an elvcn 
cloak, a lantern, a flask of oil, a tinder box, 
two waterskins, a steel mirror, a holy symbol, 
and a bag of holding that contains 800 gold 
pieces. In addition, he has two magical heir 
looms of which he is secretly quite proud. 

One is the magic ring that he acquired 
from the Monks of the Swamp. The ring 
holds one use each of three spells; confusion, 
massmorph, and wall of lire. 

Miklos' other heirloom is an amulet dial he 
wears constantly and that seems to negate 
any spell cast on or at him This item has ad 
ditional properties described in DAI ( Adven 


tures In Blackmoor), but these should be 
used only if you are playing this module as 
part of an ongoing campaign in Blackmoor. 



10 




RUNNING THE ADVENTURE 


Once the PCs accept The Fetch's proposi 
tion, they must get recruited by the Order of 
the Frog, travel to the City of the Frog, locate 
Rissa, and escape. This part of the module 
describes their recruitment, their journey to 
the city, and the workings of the order. 

OUT OF BLACKMOOR 

Read this passage to the players after they 
meet Haruska. 


Before dawn the following morning, you 
arc hustled aboard a waiting boat at 
Blackmoor's Old North Dock. Your goods 
are already on board. \bur horses stay be 
hind in the care of the proprietor of the 
Comeback Inn. 

The two-day passage from Blackmoor 
to Vcstfold is spent practicing your cover 
story under the able direction of your 
companion, Miklos Haruska. The cover 
devised for you by The Fetch is that you 
come from a land far across the northern 
seas where barbarous warfare is common. 
Having contracted your services to the 
losing contender in a power struggle, you 
found it expedient to steal a small ship and 
flee to another land across the wide North 
Sea. A month ago, you were shipwrecked 
on the eastern coast of Blackmoor. Since 
not much is known of the lands across the 
North Sea, you can speak of the lands in 
your own time as if they existed in this 
age, and none will be the wiser. Haruska 
spends much of the voyage asking you 
questions to satisfy himself that this ap 
proach will, indeed, work as planned. 
And just as Haruska questions you, so 
you get to question Haruska. 


At this point, give the players a chance to ask 
Haruska any questions they want about the 
City of the Frog. Sensitive to the fact that the 
continued conjunction of his head and neck 
depends on the outcome of this mission, he 
answers as truthfully and completely as he 
can. Haruska does not. of course, know the 
city's location. But he does remember its lay 
out. Information that he can provide in 
cludes: 

• A description of the city and temple that 
includes little information on Frog Town 
and none on the temple dungeon, but 
much material on the aboveground temple 
and the outer bailey. 

' A very general rundown of the order's 
structure that includes some information 
on the clothing and customs of the monks. 


* The fact that the temple has an amazing 
array of "magic" (e.g., technological) de 
vices and that the temple's doors and gates 
open only to certain monks. 

TRAIL OF THE FROG 

When the PCs are done questioning 

Haruska, read this passage: 


Your opportunity to probe Haruska comes 
to an end when, at dusk on the day after 
you set sail, you reach the walled town of 
Vcstfold. Here, you are to meet the man 
that Haruska says is the Froggie recruiter 
to whom he has been told to bring any 
candidates that he locates. After two days 
at sea in a miserable little boat, warm food 
and a soft bed would be much appreci 
ated, but Haruska marches you directly 
from the docks through a maze of twisty 
alleys and crooked passages to a scarred 
door on a back street in die weavers' dis 
trict. 


At his knock, a small peephole in the door 
opens a crack and someone demands to know 
your business. Haruska gives his name and 
says that he's "come widi men for Stephen." 
The peephole shuts with a thud, and the door 
opens wide. A gray, wizened, perfectly bald 
litde man ushers you into a dimly lighted 
room that is bare except for a long table 
flanked by a dozen chairs. A pair of candles in 
cheap pewter holders gutter atop the table. 
As Haruska passes your host, he greets him 
as "Jons." 

Jons: AC. 9; HD 3; hp 9; MV 120' (40'); #AT 
1; D 1-4 + poison (poisoned dagger); 
Save as normal man; ML 12; AL N; XP 
35. Jons' purse contains 30 gold pieces 
and a ragged scrap of parchment contain 
ing the notation " Grctchin' Fcichin '- 
Kelpie Wharf-midnight." Characters 
who fail to Save vs. Poison when stabbed 
by Jons sustain 4-16 points of damage. 

Jons is the order's primary recruiter in Black 
moor, but he is a mere hireling who is kept ig 
norant of its operations- In order to ensure 
that he can't reveal anything that he docs find 
out, he is conditioned just as if he were a 
member of the order (see the Heart of Dark 
ness portion of this module). 

If the PCs attack Jons, he fights until sub 
dued or killed. If they subdue and question 
him, he dies as a result of his conditioning be 
fore telling them anything. The encounter 
with Jons follows the course laid out below 


unless and until the PCs try to force the or 
der's recruiter to give them information or 
otherwise help them. 


Once you are inside, the little man closes 
the door and shoots home a bolt. Then, he 
seats himself at the head of the table, mo 
tioning you to take the remaining seats. 
When you are seated, he questions you 
closely, firing his queries like quarrels, his 
gravelly voice snapping like a bowstring. 

Once Jons has asked each PC a few questions 
concerning his origins, travels, and skills, he 
makes an offer 


The pay is 200 gold pieces per month all 
found. Do well and they'll be more. We 
need captains as well as soldiers, and you 
might be just what we're seeking. We have 
a temple in the swamp southeast of here. 
That's where we need men. If you join us, 
a boat, the Gretchin' Fetchin' is leaving 
for there in a few hours. I'll want you on 
it. Agreed? 


If the PCs don't agree, Jons doubles the 
money offer, but remains adamant that they 
must take the boat that is leaving for the tem 
ple this night. Once matters are settled with 
his recruits, Jons turns to Haruska. 


Alright, Haruska. They look good. You 
can have 500 a head for bringin' 'em in- 
payable at the end of their first month. 
But, before you go, there's one other 
thing. Stephen wants to talk to you. Now. 
I've got orders to send you along the next 
time you brought in some new meat-and 
this is the next time. So you'll be going 
along with your friends. 


Haruska, who is obviously unhappy at this 
turn of events, at first tries to argue that he 
has previous commitments, then finally gives 
in when Jons tells him that the deal is off if he 
doesn't go along. Knowing that his head is 
going to come off if he ruins this deal, he be 
comes a reluctant member of the PCs' party, 
actively participating in the rest of the adven 
ture. In addition to using his abilities on be 
half of the party, you can also use him as a 
mouthpiece to make suggestions and give the 
players hints. 


Once it is settled that Haruska will accom 
pany you, Jons gives you directions to the 
Kelpie Wharf where you will find the 


11 









RUNNING THE ADVENTURE 


Gretchin ' Fetchin ' and her captain, J arad 
Tehn. When you inform Tehn that you are 
passengers sent by Jons, he will take you 
aboard and see to your needs. 


If, instead of allowing themselves to be re 
cruited as planned, the PCs attempt to coerce 
Jons, they will have to locate the Gretchin 
Fctchin ' themselves. This is a simple matter 
of going down to the harbor and asking 
around. However, at some time during their 
search, Haruska disappears, having decided 
that he has done all that is expected of him. 

Whether they get directions from Jons or 
find the Gretchin' Fetchin' themselves, the 
PCs get to the boat just before it sails. 


At last you locate Gretchin ' Fetchin, 
pulled up alongside a crumbling stone 
pier in an out-of-the-way comer of the 
harbor. The vessel is a flat-bottomed 
barge about 30 feet long and 10' wide with 
a draft of maybe two feet. There is no 
cabin-only a hold that can't be much 
more than eight feet deep. When you ar 
rive, her crew of eight is taking on board 
the last of a pile of mealy bags. A tall, bur- 
ley man with a shock of flaming red hair 
and a voice like rusty nails falling down a 
drain pipe is cursing the crew to greater 
speed. 


The red-haired man is Captain Jarad Tehn. 
If the PCs tell Tehn that they have been sent 
by Jons (whether true or not), he takes them 
aboard, but insists that they stay in the hold 
(which is almost full of mealy bags) while the 
boat is underway. If the PCs don't mention 
Jons' name, Tehn and his crew don't allow 
them on board, fighting to keep them off the 
vessel, if necessary. Captain and crew are 
conditioned just as if he were members of the 
order (see the Heart of Darkness portion of 
this module). 

Jarad Tehn: AC 7 (leather armor); HD 4; hp 
20; MV 120' (40'); #AT l; D 1-8(sword); 
Save F4; ML 12; Al- N; XP 75. Tehn's 
purse holds 30 gold pieces. 

Crewmen (8): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 2; 
hp 10; MV 120' (40*); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(crossbow or short sword); Save F2; ML 
12; AL N; XP 20. Each crewmen carries a 
short sword and a purse containing 20 
gold pieces. In addition, one crossbow 
and one case of 20 quarrels per crewman 
is bracketed to the boat's low gunwales for 
use in emergencies. 


Tehn and his eight crewmen sleep on the open 
deck. When the boat is underway, Tehn mans 
a stem steering sweep while four men per side 
pole the boat along. There is barely room for 
the crew on the tiny deck. Unless an en 
counter is taking place, the PCs are forced to 
stay in the hold when the boat is underway, 
both for reasons of security and to give the 
crew room to work During encounters, ev 
eryone on board is required by Tehn to be on 
deck defending the boat. 

The trip to the City of the Frog takes 10 
days, and consists of three legs. If you have a 
copy of module DAI (Adventures in Black- 
moor), you can use its color map of The 
Northlands to trace the voyage and can mod 
ify the route taken if desired. Note that this 
map's scale is 12 (not 24) miles per hex. If you 
don't own DAI, measure the voyage in days 
and legs as oudined below. 

1. The trip's first leg takes the boat up two 
slow-moving channels (the Barleycorn River 
and Draco Channel) to a broad lake (the 
Lake of Mists). It lasts three days, and you 
needn't check for encounters during it. 

2. The second leg consists of one day spent 
under sweeps crossing the lake in a dense fog. 
During this leg, check for encounters once by 
rolling ld6. An encounter occurs on a roll of 
5-6. 

3. Throughout the third leg of the voyage, 
the boat is inside the Great Dismal Swamp. It 
first travels down a sluggish channel called 
the Big Muddy for four days, then spends an 
other two days on Loch Gloomen in the cen 
ter of the swamp. You must check for 
encounters once per day during this leg. An 
encounter occurs on a roll of 4-6. 

lb find the encounter type, roll ld4 if the PCs 
are in the Great Dismal Swamp (third leg) 
and ld6 if they are not (second leg). 

1 Large Crocodiles (4): AC 3; HD 6; hp 24 
each; MV 90' (30'), swimming 90' (30'); 
#AT 1 bite; D 2-16; Save F3; ML 7; AL 
N; XP 275 each. 

2 Harpies (8). AC 7; HD 3*; hp 12 each, 
MV 60' (20'), flying 150' (50'); #AT 2 
claws + special; D 1-4/1-4/1-6; Save F6; 
MI. 7; AL C; XP 50 each 

3 Giant Leeches (4): AC 7; HD 6; hp 24 
each; MV 90' (30'); #AT 1 bite; D 1-6; 
Save F3; ML 10; AL N; XP 275 each. 

4 Lizard Men (8): AC 5; HD 2 + 1; hp 10 
each; MV 60' (20'), swimming 120' (40'); 
#AT 1 weapon; D 1-6 (spear); Save F2; 
ML 12; AL N; XP 25 each. 


5 Giant Crocodile (1): AC 1; HD 15; hp 80; 
MV 90' (30'), swimming 90' (30'); #AT 1 
bite; D 3-24; Save F8; ML 9; AL N; XP 
1,350. 

6 Giant Sturgeon (1): AC 0; HD 10 + 2; hp 
50; MV (swim) 180' (60'); #AT 1 bite; D 
2-20; Save F5; ML 9. AL N; XP 1,600 

Don't let the boat be seriously damaged in 
these encounters unless it has been taken over 
by the PCs (see below). If more than two 
crewmen are killed in encounters, Tehn en 
lists the PCs to help pole the boat for the rest 
of the trip. If Tehn is killed, a crewman re 
places him. On die voyage's tenth day, the 
boat reaches the City of the Frog. 

It is possible that the PCs may take control 
of the boat or, even, leave it altogether. If they 
try the former, Tehn and his crew fight to the 
death. Add 1-4 days to each leg of the trip if 
the PCs take over or leave the boat or if Tehn 
and all his crew are killed. At the end of this 
extended trip, the PCs encounter one of the 
order's slaver parties composed of 32 slavers, 
two slaver captains, and 10 swamp rats in 12 
canoes. 

Slavers (32): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 2; hp 
8 each: MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 
(sling) or 1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 7; AL 
N; XP 20 each. 

Slaver Captains (2): AC 7 (leather armor); 
HD 4; hp 16 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1. 
D 1-8(sword); Save F4; MLS; AL N; XP 
75 each. 

Swamp Rats (10): AC. 7 (leather armor); HD 
5; hp 20 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1- 
6 (bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F5; ML 9; 
AL N; XP 175 each. 

If the slavers become aware that the PCs are 
new recruits, they blindfold them and escort 
them to the City of the Frogs as comrades. 
Otherwise, they try to make them prisoners 
and carry them into the city as slaves. 

HEART OF DARKNESS 

At the end of their journey, the PCs slide 
down a winding channel and into a sheltered 
cove on Loch Gloomen's Frog Island. Hid 
den from the lake by dense stands of towering 
160-foot royal crown palms and moss-hung 
cypress trees, this cove is the secret headquar 
ters of the Order of the Frog. After creeping 
past Frog Town, the PCs turn into The Ha 
ven (1-23) and edge up to one of the docks. 
Here, they are met by the Harbor Master. If 
they arrive as recruits, he has an acolyte 
guide them (and Haruska, if he is along) to 


12 






RUNNING THE ADVENTURE 


guest cottage 25L, where they are temporar 
ily lodged. If they arrive as prisoners, they 
arc stripped of iheir clothing and possessions, 
fitted with leg irons, and sent to the slave pen 
(1-17A). 

The PCs have now attained the first of 
their goals, reaching the City of tile Frog. 
Now they must locate and rescue Rissa. 
Standing in their way are the Monks of the 
Swamp and many hundreds of their minions. 

Their opposition, the Order of the Frog, is 
led liy a man of resource and ambition High 
Priest Saint Stephen and his four sainted 
companions appeared out of nowhere and 
took over the order five years ago. They now 
rule it with an iron hand. Though Stephen 
and his companions appear normal enough 
(except for the slight greenish cast of their 
skin), they arc quite literally not of this world. 
They arc aliens, members of a scientific expe 
dition that crashlanded on this planet some 
years ago 

After the crash, a dispute arose among the 
expedition's members. Though their vessel 
was stranded and it might be years before 
their distress beacon brought rescue, most of 
the crew were against violating a service di 
rective against contact with primitive cul 
tures such as that of Blackmoor. They wanted 
to enter suspended animation and await res 
cue. A minority, led by Security Officer 
Stephen ("the Rock") Rocklin, argued that 
rescue was uncertain and that the crew might 
be forever trapped in their sealed hibernation 
chambers. This faction maintained that con 
tact with the locals would be the key to sur 
vival if no rescue materialized. When the 
captain and chief science officer overruled 
them, Rocklin and his faction mutinied. 
Their bid to take over the stranded ship 
failed, and a mere handful of them escaped in 
a lifeboat As they sped away, a loyalist sent a 
Hellbore missile after them. Thy as they 
might to evade the deadly seeker, it caught up 
with the lifeboat and knocked it down in Frog 
Swamp very near the Temple of the Frog. 

When the awed monks from the nearby 
temple arrived on the scene to see what all of 
the noise was about, they found Stephen and 
his four surviving companions standing 
amidst the wreckage in a state of despair. But 
the presence of potential danger, in the form 
of the monks' armed retainers, soon galva 
nized Stephen. Experimenting with his trans 
lator badge, he quickly found a setting that let 
him understand most of what the monks were 
asking him. Then, realizing that the monks 
were already impressed by the circumstances 
of his arrival, the size of his vessel, and the 
lovely froggy color of his skin, Stephen made 


a desperate gamble. 

Speaking with all of the hauteur that he 
could muster, he informed them that he had 
come on a fiery comet to lead them to the 
light of true knowledge. Though he had no 
idea at the time of what exactly the monks 
might consider to be "true knowledge," it 
sounded good, and he carried it off with pa 
nache. The monks made Stephen and his 
companions honored guests. 

Within hours, Stephen had obtained an ac 
curate rundown on the order's theology. 
Within days, he had so awed his hosts with 
his technology (and a good line of patter) that 
the order's high priest had declared him a 
saint. A few weeks later, at his command and 
with enthusiastic encouragement from the or 
der's leaders, the bewildered old High Priest 
"joined the Frog," and Saint Stephen re 
placed him. His first official act was to put the 
monks to work salvaging his lifeboat. Since a 
deep-space lifeboat is a large vessel that car 
ries everything needed to start a self- 
sustaining colony, the material scavenged 
from the wreck gave Stephen the wherewithal 
to turn the Order of the Frog into a very pow 
erful organization, indeed. The seemingly 
powerful "magic" represented by its equip 
ment also helped Stephen to tighten his grip 
on the order. 

In the five years since he appeared. Saint 
Stephen has used his alien technology to re 
make the Order of the Frog But alien tech 
nology is not all that Stephen has brought to 
Frog Swamp. He has reorganized the order 
along more efficient lines and placed his own 
men in key positions. In the present hierar 
chy, Stephen is the order's absolute ruler. Be 
neath him is a council of five "saints" who 
carry out his wishes and help him rule. All 
but one is an alien. They include: 

The Rector: The current rector is Brand 
Kirk, one of Stephen's companions, formerly 
a hydroponics tech aboard the alien vessel. 
He handles the daily running of the temple. 

The Chancellor: Chancellor Dygar Mendel, 
another of Stephen's companions was for 
merly a quartermaster's mate. He now runs 
the City of the Frog and manages the order's 
financial affairs. 

The Guardian: Stephen's third companion. 
Guardian Lynn Raupp was formerly assist 
ant commander of Stephen's security section. 
She now commands the order's small army of 
soldiers, slavers and scouts. 

The Magus: Formerly an assistant engineer 
aboard the alien ship. Magus Willis Strom is 
in charge of "magic"-e.g., the alien devices 


installed in the temple. 

The Chief Keeper: The only saint who is not 
an alien is Scfton Bril, the Chief Keeper. Mis 
Keepers of the Frogs are a power unto them 
selves inside the order, and Stephen has 
found it politic to leave Bril's authority un 
touched and his keepers unconditioned. Bril 
Supervises the keepers and runs the lower 
dungeon as a private realm. 

Below the saints in Stephen's new hierarchy 
are the inner circle monks, the order's senior 
functionaries. Below them are the outer circle 
monks who hold the low-level positions of au 
thority. The rest of the monks are acolytes, 
not yet entrusted with its secrets. The order 
also has many non-cleric members, lay 
brothers who do much of its dirty work and 
most of its fighting. 

Except for saints and keepers, members of 
the order are kept fanatically loyal to both the 
order and its head by periodic visits to the 
Mind of the Frog (7-63). Here, they are 
hooked up to an alien behavior modification 
device that uses hypnotic conditioning to al 
ter their attitudes. 

The effects of this alien conditioning are re 
flected in the morale of the order's members. 
In addition, though they may speak loosely of 
the order's secrets when in the City of the 
Frog and off-guard, no member will know 
ingly aid its enemies or betray its secrets to 
them. If he tries to do so, his conditioning 
works like a geas cast by a 36th level wizard to 
kill the individual. Finally, as a result of this 
conditioning, members of the order are im 
mune to the effects of charm person, sleep, 
ESP, hold person, and confusion spells. 

The Keepers of the Frogs have a special 
status and an independent identity within the 
order. Ever since its founding, the order has 
invested time and treasure in trying to de 
velop new breeds of frogs that combined ap 
propriate froggy traits with humanoid 
intelligence or other desirable qualities. Most 
of their crude efforts have been dead ends, 
but some have seemed worth preserving. It is 
the keepers who run the experiments and 
tend to their results. This work gives them 
their special status, and they guard it jeal 
ously. Only the saints, the inner circle, and 
the keepers know the details of this "great 
work." At present, two species are under de 
velopment: the killer frogs and the frog folk. 

Killer Frogs 

Armor Class: 7 

Hit Dice: I 

Move. 90' (30') 

Swimming 120' (40') 


13 




RUNNING THE ADVENTURE 


Attacks: 

Damage. 

No. Appearing: 
Save As: 
Morale: 
Treasure Type: 
Alignment: 

XP Value: 


I bite or 1 kick 
1 - 8 / 1-6 

3-24 (5-40) 
Fighter 3 

II 
Nil 

Chaotic 

10 


Killer frogs are two to three feet long, and 
have the same general characteristics as their 
smaller brethren. That is to say, they arc 
cold-blooded water-dwellers who lay eggs. 
However, their thick, molded green skins of 
fer the same protection as leather armor, and 
their heavy hind legs can propel them as 
much as 10 feet into the air and can deliver a 
lethal kick. They also have acute vision, be 
ing able to see in the dark almost as well as in 
daylight. Their visual acuity makes them 
wary of bright sunlight; they prefer cool, dark 
caves, deep ponds, and sheltered swamps. 
But their most unusual feature is a mouthful 
of sharp teeth. They are carnivorous and 
have been conditioned to be man-eaters. 
Though unintelligent, the killer frogs arc the 
pride and joy of the Keepers of the Frogs 
since they were the first successful species to 
be developed. 

Frog Folk 

Armor Class: 

Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Swimming 
Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 

Save As: 

Morale: 

Treasure Type: 

Alignment: 

XP Value: 


6 ( 8 ) 

2 + 1(1 + 1 ) 

90' (30') 

120' (40') 

1 bite or 1 kick 
or by weapon 
1 -4/1-6 or by weapon 
3-12 (6-36) 

Fighter 2 (Fighter 1) 
8 
D 

Neutral 

25(15) 


The frog folk were developed at the direct or 
der of Saint Stephen, using some of the 
'magic" that he brought to the temple. Un 
like the keepers' beloved killer frogs, which 
arc magically mutated representatives of 
their species, the frog folk derive from hu 
manoid stock and are the result of genetic 
surgery performed on the order's captives. As 
a consequence, they are a warm-blooded, in 
telligent, upright, bi-pedal, species, with 
fully articulated hands and opposable 
thumbs. But they also have gills, webbed 
hands and feet, thick, molded green skins, 
bulging eyes, exceptionally muscular legs, 
and long, sticky forked tonges. Like frogs, 
they lay eggs. Though they dwell on land, the 


frog folk are equally at home in the water, and 
can stay submerged indefinitely. 

Mutating a human into one of the frog folk is 
a lengthy and complex process involving the 
injection into the human system of a con 
trolled virus that stimulates growth in desired 
directions. The armor class, hit dice, and xp 
value shown first above are for fully mutated 
frog folk; the numbers in parentheses are for 
partially mutated frog folk in the maturing 
pond (9-61). 

The frog folk are a source of friction in the or 
der, since the keepers resent the ease with 
which they were developed using Saint 
Stephen's "magic." Before the frog folk came 
along, the killer frogs were the pride of the 
temple, and the keepers were greatly re 
spected and feared due to their ability to cre 
ate and control the little monsters. Now, 
Saint Stephen has stolen much of dicir thun 
der by so rapidly developing the frog folk. For 
this reason, Stephen and his fellow aliens are 
not loved by the keepers. 

The order's structure is reflected in the 
dress and rings of its members. Rings are 
more than mere jewelry to the monks. All of 
the visibile doors and gates in the temple and 
garden (including water gates, but not secret 
doors) are electronically locked at all times. 
They open only when approached by some 
one wearing the correct ring. These rings 
aren't magical. Rather, they are miniatur 
ized transmitters that broadcast an I.D. code 
read by a receiver in each door. When the re 
ceiver reads die right code, it opens the door, 
then closes it behind. 

The Saints: The six saints can be recognized 
by their criinson-bordercd gold robes. Each 
saint, other than the chief keeper, wears a 
ring that opens all doors and gates in the tem 
ple and garden. The chief keeper's ring opens 
all doors and gates except those to Saint 
Stephen's room (6-61) and the Mind of the 
Frog (7-63). In addition to his chief keeper's 
ring, he wears the order's master frog control 
ring that lets him control all killer frogs 
within 120' as if he had cast a charm spell 
over them. This ring's effect supercedes that 
of all other items or spells used to control 
killer frogs. 

The Inner Circle: The 16 inner circle monks 
wear gilt-edged crimson robes. Their rings 
are identical to that of the chief keeper except 
that they don't open the doors to any any 
doors or gates in the lower dungeon. 

The Outer Circle: The 20 outer circle monks 
wear white-edged black robes. Their rings 


are identical to inner circle rings except that 
they don't open the doors to offices or quar 
ters occupied by saints. 

Acolytes: The 30 acolytes wear black-edged 
white robes. Their rings are identical to inner 
circle rings except that they don't open the 
doors to any of the water gates. 

The Keepers: The 32 keepers wear green 
robes edged in yellow. They wear rings iden 
tical to the chief keeper's ring. The keepers 
also wear frog control rings similar to the 
master frog control ring worn by the chief 
keeper. However, their rings have a range of 
only 60' and arc superceded by the master 
ring. If more than one of these rings is being 
used within the same area, their effects cancel 
out. 

The Lay Brothers: The lay brothers are at 
the lowest level in the order's hierarchy. 
There are 200 of them in the City of the Frog, 
of whom 120 arc assigned to the temple and 
80 to the outer bailey. Lay brothers not as 
signed to the temple can't enter the temple 
except for religious services. Lay brothers 
wear dark brown tunics and cloaks fastened 
with a silver brooch fashioned in the likeness 
of a frog devouring a human. 

The Hirelings: The order can also draw on 
200 hangers-on and hirelings in Frog Town. 
Some 30 of these individuals are fishermen 
and trappers, experienced "swamp rats" 
who serve the order as guides and keep the 
city supplied with fresh meat and fish. An 
other 80 arc slavers, who are paid salaries 
plus bounties for participating in the slave 
raids, which are a source of both cash and ex 
perimental subjects. The rest are bawds, 
publicans, and servants who aren't paid by 
the order, but whose presence is tolerated by 
it. Frog Town's residents can't be identified 
by their garb or jewelry. 

Froggy Minions: There are about 140 killer 
frogs, 30 wholly mutated frog folk, and 30 parti 
ally mutated frog folk in the lower dungeon. 
The killer frogs are savage litde monsters who 
will attack anyone or anything unless con 
trolled The keepers use their frog control rings 
to channel this froggy fury and keep the killers 
subdued. The wholly mutated frog folk are con 
ditioned by Saint Stephen and will fight fanati 
cally on behalf of die order. The partially 
mutated frog folk are not conditioned. They 
hate the order for what it has done to them and 
will aid in its destruction. All killer frogs and 
frog folk wear a plastic necklace containing a 
transmitter that can be used to trace them when 
they are in Frog Swamp. 


14 




RUNNING THE ADVENTURE 


This, then, is ihe Order of the Frog against 
which the PCs have set themselves. Sheer 
numbers and power make it a threat to them, 
but their danger is even greater than they 
know. For the intentions of their foes arc far 
more sinister than the PCs understand. 

JAWS OF DEATH 

If the PCs enter the city as prisoners, they are 
automatically relegated to the status of 
slaves. After 1-4 days in the slave pen (1- 
17A), they are shifted to the lower dungeon's 
prep cell (9-73) where they are held for 2-8 
days. After that, they arc individually moved 
to the laboratory (9-57) where, in a one-hour 
operation, each PC is infected with a virus 
that gradually turns him into one of the Frog 
Folk over a period of six weeks. The PCs 
spend their weeks of developing into slimy 
green things locked up in a maturing cell (9- 
81). 

If the PCs enter the city as hirelings, they 
are also candidates for membership in the or 
der, though no one informs them of this fact. 
Saint Stephen individually interviews each 
new hireling to determine his suitability for 
membership. Interviews are held in the Mind 
of the Frog (7-63) with the PC hooked up to 
the alien conditioning equipment. If Stephen 
feels that the PC is unsuitable, the character 
is unhooked and returns from the interview 
without incident. 

But there is an 80% chance that the alien 
finds the PC suitable for recruitment into the 
order, in which case, he is conditioned to de 
votion to Saint Stephen and the order. He 
then rejoins the party, as if nothing had hap 
pened, having been conditioned to forget his 
ordeal. The conditioning takes an hour, and 
the PC's memory of that hour is a blank. 

A single bout of conditioning doesn't turn 
a character into a fanatic, place him under a 
geas, or confer immunity to spells. Such ef 
fects take 5-10 sessions. Instead, a single ses 
sion has the same effect as a charm person 
spell except that the victim gets no saving 
throw when first subjected to it, and its effects 
can't be detected or affected by detect magic 
or dispel magic spells. Victims do get regular 
saving throws to sec if they throw off the ef 
fects of the conditioning. 

When all PCs have had their interview and 
returned to the party, those who were found 
suitable are inducted into the order as lay 
brothers. They stay in their guest cottage 
awaiting further instruction. Unsuitable PCs 
are sent to Frog Town to join the squad of 
slavers in shack 1-36E. 

While the PCs are in peril of losing their 


minds (or dicir genes), Haruska (if he is with 
them) is in peril of his life. He has been 
brought to the city so that Saint Stephen can 
coerce him into agreeing to a partnership be 
tween the order and Haruska's Vestfold 
Thieves' Guild, thus allowing the order to ex 
pand its operations. Since mind control even 
tually wears off, Stephen can't simply 
condition Haruska, get him to agree to the 
partnership, and let him go. Once the condi 
tioning wore off, the thief might not abide by 
the agreement. Therefore, if Haruska can't 
be talked into the agreement, Stephen plans 
to kill him and deal with his successor. 

Saint Stephen is preoccupied with other 
matters when the PCs and Haruska arrive 
and can't see any of them for 2-5 days. They 
thus have that much time in which to gather 
information and make their move. Once he 
becomes available, Saint Stephen sees two 
PCs per day until all have been examined. 
He speaks repeatedly with Haruska during 
that time, refraining from making a decision 
on the thiefs status until after the PCs' indi 
vidual fates have been decided. 

Meanwhile, if they enter the city as re 
cruits, the members of the party are treated 
as honored guests. They have the run of the 
outer bailey and Frog Town, but can openly 
enter the garden and temple only to attend 
religious services, which are open to everyone 
in the city (including guests). That treatment 
continues until and unless they are caught vi 
olating security. 

Should the PCs discuss their true purpose 
in front of one of their number who has been 
conditioned, their talk sets up a conflict in 
which the conditioned PC makes a saving 
throw to see if the conditioning is broken. If 
he fails his saving throw, he starts a violent 
argument with the other players in which he 
defends the order and threatens to "report 
your disloyalty to Stephen." If not subdued 
by the other PCs or convinced that they are 
joking or that he has misheard them, the. PC 
makes good on this threat. 

With their own party divided and an order 
of hundreds of fanatics opposing them, the 
PCs could have a tough lime of it. But they 
have some assistance. The backup team has 
trailed them from Vestfold in its own boat (a 
riverboat with a crew of 8, identical to the 
Grelchin' Fetchin,' but without cargo or cap 
tain). While the PCs are in the City of the 
Frog, the backup team is hiding out in a small 
nearby cove. They can affect events inside 
the city in three ways: 

1. There is a 20% chance that one them is 
captured while scouting the city from Frog 


Swamp. Stripped of weapons, equipment 
and magic items, the prisoner is brought to 
the temple and confined in the lower 
dungeon's special treatment cell (9-71) with 
Rissa. 

2. There is a 50% chance that, having kept a 
close watch on the city and temple, they be 
come aware of any disturbance caused by the 
PCs actions and enter the city to lend their 
aid, arriving just in time to help the PCs out 
of some dangerous situation. 

3. Regardless of whelher events 1 and 2 oc 
cur, when the PCs reach the shore of Frog Is 
land during their escape from the city, the 
backup team's riverboat appears to pick them 
up and convey them to safety as per the Es 
cape From Frog Island section. 



15 








THE CITY OF THE FROG 


The grandiosely named City of the Frog is ac 
tually no city at all, but rather a small clois 
tered settlement devoted to scientific and 
magical studies and the adoration of the 
Frog. Hidden at the end of an inlet on the 
northern shore of Frog Island, a tangled jun 
gle of saw grass and mangrove swamp in the 
northeastern part of Loch Gloomcn, the city 
consists of four areas separated from each 
other by walls or water barriers: the temple 
compound, temple garden, outer bailey, and 
Frog Town. Each of these areas is detailed in 
the following sections. This part of the mod 
ule also contains details on the temple envi 
rons, including die moat and Frog Swamp, 
the surrounding fen that is an extension of the 
Great Dismal Swamp. 

FROG SWAMP 

Surrounding the City of the Frog on the 
north, west, and northeast is Frog Swamp, a 
pestiferous fen populated by all manner of 
carnivorous horrors. The waters of the 
swamp are generally two feet deep, though in 
some areas, their depth increases to four or 
even five feet. Sinkholes up to six feet deep 
arc common, and deeper holes are not un 
known. The uncertain footing in these slimy 
waters makes travel on foot a constant agony 
of unexpected spills and unpleasant dunk- 
ings. Anyone trying to traverse Frog Swamp 
on foot has an 80% chance each hour of tak 
ing a serious spill causing 1 -4 points of dam 
age. In 10% of these mishaps (50%, if the 
character is a dwarf or halfling), the water is 
deep enough so that the character could 
drown. The possibility of drowning in a mis 
hap is 1 % for an unencumbered man wear 
ing no armor or only leather armor. If the 
character is wearing chainmail or plate mail 
or is otherwise encumbered, he has a 3% 
chance of drowning. 

Dotting the swamp at intervals of between 
ten and a hundred yards are sand bars and 
grassy hummocks of dry ground. The grassy 
hummocks arc generally safe, but the sand 
bars can be treacherous. Most are safe, but 
some arc actually quicksand. Anyone trying 
to traverse Frog Swamp on foot has a 5% 
chance each hour of stumbling into a patch of 
quicksand. If his companions throw him a 
rope, extend a pole, or otherwise manage to 
rescue him within 2-8 rounds, the character 
survives the encounter. Otherwise, he has a 
5% chance of locating an overhanging 
branch or other feature that he can use to pull 
himself free of the quicksand. If he is not res 
cued and doesn't pull himself free, he suffo 


cates in the quicksand. 

The locals avoid the dangers of quicksand 
and deep water by using Qat-bottomed ca 
noes to traverse Frog Swamp. These allow 
them to travel faster and at less risk, but only 
slightly reduces the peril posed by the wild 
swamp's abundance of monsters. If the party 
is traveling afoot, check for an encounter 
once every two hours; if in canoes, check once 
every four hours. To determine what the 
characters encounter, roll ld4, if it is day and 
1 d6 if it is night or if the Monks of the Swamp 
have released their minions. The result deter 
mines the type of encounter. 

1 Crocodiles (8): AC 5; HD 2; hp 10 each; 
MV 90' (30'), swimming 90' (30'); #AT 1 
bite; D 1 -8; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 35 
each. 

2 Rock Python (1): AC 6; HD 5*; hp 30; 
MV 90''(30'); #AT 1 bite/1 squeeze; D 1- 
4/2-8; Save F3, ML 8; AL N; XP 300. 

.3 Giant Leeches (3): AC 7; HD 6; hp 25 
each; MV 90' (30'); #AT 1 bite; D 1-6; 
Save F3; ML 10; AL N; XP 275 each. 

4 Giant Rats (10): AC 7; HD 1/2; hp 4 
each; MV 120' (40'), swimming 60' (40'); 
#AT 1 bite; D 1-3 + disease; Save as nor 
mal man; ML 8; AL C; XP 12 each. All 
of the giant rats are diseased. 

5 Killer Frogs (12): AC 7; HD 1; hp 5 each; 
MV 120' (40'), swimming 90' (30'); #AT 
1 bite/1 kick; D 1-8/1-6; Save F3; ML 11; 
AL C; XP 10 each. 

6 Frog Folk (8): AC 6; HD 2 + I; hp 10 
each; MV 90' (30'), swimming 120' (40'); 
#AT 1 bite or 1 kick; D 1-4/1-6; Save F2; 
ML 8; AL N; XP 25 each. 

As if monsters and terrain were not enough. 
Frog Swamp, the City of the Frog which it sur 
rounds, and the nearby waters of Lake 
Gloomen are subject to dense fogs that block 
out sun and stars and make it difficult to deter 
mine direction. On any given day, there is a 
10% chance that dicre will be dense log all day 
and night. There is an 80% chance that there 
will at least be fog all night and throughout the 
morning. There is only a 10% chance that the 
entire day and night will be clear. Characters at 
tempting to travel through Frog Swamp during 
periods of dense fog have a 50% chance of get 
ting lost during each hour of travel. 

THE MOAT 

Surrounding tile temple compound and garden 
is a 30-foot deep moat crossed by three draw 


bridges. In addition, three magical iron-barred 
gates (at G1, G2, and G3) block passage both 
on the surface and underwater. The gates ex 
tend below the water's surface to the very bot 
tom of the moat and extend five feet above the 
water's surface. They are controlled by the 
magical rings earned by the order's members 
and are kept closed at all times. 

It is forbidden to enter the moat except 
with the express permission of the monks. 
This permission is granted only for purposes 
of making deliveries. Any unauthorized at 
tempt at traversing the moat is met by a gen 
eral alarm and catapult and crossbow fire 
from the walls and towers of the temple com 
pound and garden. Thus, it is possible to tra 
verse the moat only at night or under cover of 
dense fog. Even on clear nights and foggy 
days, there is a 10% chance that characters 
attempting to swim the moat will be detected 
and a 20% chance that a party traversing the 
moat in a vessel will be detected. These 
chances are halved if a crossing is attempted 
during a foggy night. 

Part of the moat abuts the curtain wall 
around the temple and garden. The slippery, 
moss-covered, closely morticed stones of 
these walls arc dimbable, but only with great 
difficulty; halve the success chance whenever 
a thief tries to climb them. The banks of the 
moat that are not formed by the curtain wall 
are low and marshy, providing easy entry and 
exit. These banks are also choked with weeds 
that provide cover. 

The part of the moat cast of G2, south of 
Gl and north of G3 is clear of all dangerous 
life forms There is a 40% chance that at 
tempting to traverse any other part of the 
moat will lead to an encounter. To find the 
type of encounter, roll ld4, if it is day and ld6 
if it is night or the Monks of the Swamp have 
released their minions. The result determines 
the type of encouter. 

1 Crocodile (1): AC 5; HD 2; hp 16; MV 
90' (30'). swimming 90' (30'); #AT 1 bite; 
D 1-8; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 35. 

2 Crocodiles (2): AC 5; HD 2; hp 12 each; 
MV 90' (30'), swimming90' (30'); #AT 1 
bite; D 1 -8; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 35 
each. 

3 Crocodiles (4): AC 5; HD 2; hp 10 each; 
MV 90' (30'), swimming 90' (30'); #AT 1 
bite; D 1-8; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 35 
each. 

4 Crocodiles (6): AC 5; HD 2, hp 10 each; 
MV 90' (30'), swimming 90' (30'); #AT 1 
bite: D 1-8; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 35 
each. 


16 





THE CITY OF THE FROG 


5 Killer Frogs (15): AC 7; HD 1; hp 5 each; 
MV 120' (40'), swimming 90' (30'); #AT 
1 bile or 1 kick; D 1 -8/1 -6; Save F3; ML 
11; ALC; XP 10 each. 

6 Frog Folk (4); AC 6; HD 2 + 1; hp 10 
each; MV 90' (30'). swimming 120' (40'); 
#AT 1 bite or 1 kick; D 1-4/1-6; Save F2; 
ML 8; AL N; XP 25 each. 

Random encounters with crocodiles, killer 
frogs or frog folk have a 95% chance of draw 
ing the attention of the guards on the towers 
in temple compound and garden walls. 

Characters in chainmail or plate mail or 
who arc otherwise encumbered have a 20% 
chance of drowning if they fall into the moat. 
All other characters have only a 2% chance of 
drowning in this situation. While it is possi 
ble for unencumbered characters to swim the 
moat, those who are heavily encumbered 
should not be allowed to attempt this feat, 
since it implies traveling in a specific chosen 
direction, not just staying alive while in the 
water. Allowing a character in full plate mail 
jump into the moat with the intention of 
swimming it is an abuse of the swimming 
rules. 

THE TEMPLE COMPOUND 

This 90-yard square walled compound built 
atop an outcropping of rock 200 yards from 
the lakcshore is a veritable fortress. Its 10- 
foot thick limestone walls loom 20 feet over 
the surrounding moat, and the gatehouse and 
four big comer towers top the walls by an 
other 10 feet. A wooden drawbridge in the 
gatehouse connects the compound with the 
temple garden. 

1. The Temple Building 


The order's massive temple is built iu the 
likeness of a giant frog. Its windowless, 
green limestone walls soar 130 feet above 
the temple compound. Between its front 
legs arc a pair of monumental bronze 
doors whose surfaces arc blueish green 
with verdigris. Here and there, greasy 
smokes emanate from vents in its sides or 
roof to mingle with the mists that cloak the 
city. 


The temple is detailed in The Temple of the 
Frog part of this module. The front doors are 
electronically sealed except immediately be 
fore and after services. They open to any of 
the order's rings. 


2. The Temple Courtyard 


This broad, perfectly Oat courtyard is cov 
ered by a bed of rough white marble chips. 
A short, wide, green-flagged limestone 
walk leads from the gatehouse to a flight of 
three low, broad steps leading up to the 
doors of the temple. 


At night, electric floodlights affixed to the 
courtyard wall at 30-foot intervals keeps the 
courtyard brighdy illuminated. However, 
unless their attention is drawn by a distur 
bance, the guards atop the compund's towers 
ignore the courtyard, 

3. The West Dock 


This low palmetto wood pier is just 10 feet 
wide, but it runs for 60 feet along the outer 
surface of the wall of the temple com 
pound. A sloping limestone lip projecting 
from the wall shelters the pier from the el 
ements. The wall, itself, is cut back to 
make a shallow 10-foot deep by 40-foot 
long bay at the center of the pier. A 10-foot 
square verdigrised bronze trapdoor is set 
in the center of this bay. 


The trapdoor is electronically sealed and far 
too heavy to tear open by main force. It opens 
only to a saint's ring, inner circle ring, or 
keeper's ring, and leads to the lower 
dungeon's loading bay (8-46). All supplies 
enter the temple via this trapdoor. 

4. The Temple Gate 

The Temple Gate consists of two limestone 
gatehouses connected by an oak drawbridge. 
Gatehouse 4A is 30 feel tall, and contains a 
pair of stairwells that lead to its top from the 
upper dungeon's south concourse (8-1). Atop 
this gatehouse arc a pair of catapults (one fac 
ing west, the other facing east). There arc two 
soldiers atop the gatehouse at all times. Two 
more soldiers stand guard inside the 20-foot 
wide by 20-foot high tunnel leading through 
the gatehouse to the temple courtyard. 

Sunk into the right wall of this tunnel is a 
smooth red plastic alarm button. Hitting this 
button causes the computer to sound the alarm 
throughout the temple, drop an iron portcullis 
at the north end of gatehouse 4A, and start an 
electric winch that raises the northern 20 feet of 
the bridge between 4A and 4B. The portcullis 
stays down, the bridge stays up until the com 
puter resets them. Lxcept during alarms, the 
bridge is down and the portcullis up. 

Soldiers (4): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 8 


each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-10 (po- 
learm) or 1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; 
AL C; XP 20 each. 

Gatehouse 4B is just a 20-foot high solid lime 
stone arch containing a 20-foot wide by 15- 
foot high tunnel. 

5. The Southwest Tower 

This windowless 30-foot high limestone 
tower has an interior stair that spirals down 
the upper dungeon's southwest stairwell (8-4) 
to the lower dungeon's southwest barracks (9- 
63). Short stairs lead from the tower's top to 
the battlements on the south and west walls of 
the temple compound. Atop the crenelated 
tower is a catapult that faces southwest. Ttoo 
soldiers arc on duty atop the tower. 

Soldiers (2): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 8 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (cross 
bow) or 1 -8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL 
C; XP 20 each. 

6. The Southeast Tower 

This windowless 30-foot high limestone 
tower has an interior stair that spirals down 
the upper dungeon's southeast stairwell (8-9) 
to the lower dungeon's southeast barracks (9- 
84). Short stairs lead from the tower's top to 
the battlements on the south and cast walls of 
the temple compound. One soldier is on duty 
atop the tower. 

Soldier (1): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 8; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (crossbow) 
or 1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL C; 
XP 20. 

7. The Northeast Tower 

This windowless 30-foot high limestone 
tower has an interior stair that spirals down 
the upper dungeon's northeast stairwell (8- 
35) to the lowet dungeon's northeast barracks 
(9-77). Short stairs lead from the tower's top 
to the battlements on the north and east walls 
of the temple compound. Atop the crenelated 
tower is a catapult that faces northeast. Two 
soldiers are on duty atop the tower. 

Soldiers (2): AC. 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 8 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (cross 
bow) or 1 -8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL 
C; XP 20 each. 

8. The Northwest Tower 

This windowless 30-foot high limestone 
tower has an internal stair that spirals down 
the upper dungeon's northwest stairwell (8- 
39) to the lower dungeon's northwest bar 
racks (9-74). Short stairs lead from the 
tower's top to the battlements on the north 


17 







THE CITY OF THE FROG 


and west walls of the temple compound. Two 
soldiers are on duty atop the tower. 

Soldiers (2): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 8 
each. MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (cross 
bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL 
C; XP 20 each. 

THE TEMPLE GARDEN 

When the first monks dug a moat around 
their new temple and a U -shaped canal from 
Loch Gloomen to carry supplies to their 
doorstep, the resulting channels drained the 
water from a 90-yard by 180-yard segment of 
Frog Swamp. This area became a wooded 
garden, a stretch of solid ground over which 
the monks could stroll for exercise and re 
freshment of the spirit. 

Since various species of nasties kept wan 
dering in from the nearby swamp and stick 
ing fang and daw into the soft-bodied monks 
during their constitutionals, the brothers 
eventually walled this garden off from the 
s-wamp. Like the temple compound, the gar 
den today is protected by a 10-foot thick, 20- 
foot high limestone wall. At the comers of the 
compound are four 60-foot square, 30-foot 
high limestone towers formed by throwing re 
taining walls around part of the spoil gener 
ated by digging the canals and moat. Oak 
bridges connect the temple garden with the 
other parts of the "city." 

There are always five lay brothers working 
in the garden during the day. 

Lay Brothers (5): AC 9; HD 1. hp 4 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); 
Save FI; ML 6; AL N: XP 10 each. 

9. The Frog Gate 

The Frog Gate consists of a stone gatehouse 
whose fixed oak bridge leads into the temple 
garden via a 10-foot square tunnd in the west 
ern wall. The gatehouse is 20 feet tall, and has a 
pair of heavy oak gates that can be barred from 
the inside. A pair of identical doors in the west 
ern wall of the garden can also be barred from 
the inside. The gate in the western wall is closed 
only in time of acute danger. The gatehouse 
gate is kept closed at all times. 

Inside the gatehouse, to the right of the 
gate, is a 10-foot square guard room. Oppo 
site this guard room is a flight of stairs leading 
to the top of the gatehouse. Two soldiers stand 
guard atop the gatehouse, and another pair of 
soldiers occupies the guard room 

Soldiers (4): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 8 
each. MV 120' (40'), #AT 1; D 1-10 (po- 
learm) or 1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; 


AL C; XP 20 each. 

10. Guard Towers 

Each of these windowlcss 30-foot high towers 
contains a winding stair that spirals down to 
an archway in the temple garden. The arch in 
tower 10A faces east; those in 10B and 10C 
face north. Short stairs lead from the tower's 
top to the adjacent battlements atop the walls 
of the temple garden. There are two soldiers 
on duty atop each tower. The soldiers ring an 
alarm bell if they detect a problem. When 
ever they sound one of these alarm bells, the 
guards at the Temple Gate (1-4A) and Bailey 
Gate (1-14A) immediately press their alarm 
buttons, and the guards at the Frog Gate (1- 
9) quickly close their gates. 

Soldiers (2): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 8 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (cross 
bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F2, ML 10; AL 
C; XP 20 each. 

11. The Arbor 


The trellised walls of this whitewashed ar 
bor teem with rare species of climbing 
roses cultivated by Saint Stephen 


12. The Lily Pond 


This pond's placid surface is liberally dot 
ted with huge lilies, whose pads host 
scores of frogs of various species. 


The 20-loot deep pond also hosts a community of 
nixies. These water sprites have Saint Stephen's 
permission to stay in the safety of the pond as 
long as they don't bother the members of the or 
der or their guests. The nixies have learned to 
identify members of the order (including lay 
brothers employed as soldiers) by their garb and 
rings. All others are fair game and will be 
charmed or attacked for mischiefs sake. 

Nixies (10): AC 7; HD 1*; hp 8 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT I + special; D 1-4 + 
charm; Save El: ML 6; AL N; XP 13 
each. 

The pond is too small to hold large numbers 
of the giant bass that nixies usually keep, but 
they are attended by five of these fish, which 
they can call to their assistance. 

Giant Bass (5): AC 7; HD 2; hp 8 each; MV 
(swim) 120' (40'); #AT 1 bite; D 1-6; Save 
FI; MLS; AL N; XP 20 each. 

The monks have long used the nixies' pond as 
a wishing well, and the muck on the bottom is 


littered with 4,000 copper pieces, 2.000 silver 
piece, and 260 gold pieces. 

13. The South Dock 

This sturdy palmetto wood dock rests on 
two-foot thick log pilings. 


It is reserved Tor Saint Stephen's use. If the 
guards in tower JOB or 10C see anyone else 
using it, they sound their alarm bells. 

14. The Bailey Gate 

The Bailey Gate consists of two separate gate 
houses connected by a drawbridge. Gate - 
house 14A is 30 feet tall, and contains a 
stairwell that leads to its crenelated top. 
There are two soldiers atop the gatehouse. 
Two others stand guard inside the 20-foot 
wide by 20-foot high tunnel leading through 
the gatehouse to the temple courtyard. 

Sunk into the left wall of this tunnel is a 
smooth red plastic alarm button. Hitting it 
drops an iron portcullis at the west end of 
gatehouse 14A and starts an electric winch 
that raises the western 20 feet of the bridge 
between 1+A and 14B. The portcullis stays 
down and the bridge up until reset by the 
computer. Except during alarms, the bridge 
is down and the portcullis up. 

Soldiers (4): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 8 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-10 (po- 
lcarm) or 1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; 
AL C; XP 20 each. 

Gatehouse I4B is just a 20-foot high solid 
limestone arch containing a 20-foot wide by 
15-foot high tunnel. 

THE OUTER BAILEY 

As the temple grew, the monks drained the 
swamp to the east of the temple and walled 
the area in with a barrier almost identical to 
that around the temple compound. Part of 
this area was a natural harbor, which became 
the center of commerce between the temple 
and the Duchy of Ten. Since it sheltered the 
order's guests and trading partners in much 
the same way that the outer compound of a 
castle shelters the local peasants, the monks 
took to calling the area "the outer bailey." At 
present, this is a restricted area given over to 
warehouses and guest cottages. 

During the day. five lay brothers work on 
the grounds of the outer bailey (repairing 
docks, cutting grass, etc.). 

Lav Brothers (5): AC 9; HD 1; hp 4 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); 
Save FI; ML 6; AL N; XP 10 each. 


18 






THE CITY OF THE FROG 


15. Sentry Towers 

Each of these windowlcss 30-foot high towers 
except for 15A, 15E, and 15J has an internal 
stair leading to an arch that opens into the 
outer bailey. The arches in towers 15B, 15C, 
and 15D face south; those in 15F and 15G 
fate east; those in 15H and 151 face north, 
'lower 15J has a wooden gate that connects 
the outer bailey and Frog Town. The gate is 
open during the day, but closed and barred 
from the outer bailey side at night and during 
alarms. 

Short stairs lead from the tower's top to the 
battlements atop the outer bailey's walls. 
Atop each crenelated tower is a large barrel of 
10-pound rocks for use in repelling attackers. 
There are two sentries at the gate in 15J and 
one sentry atop each tower. The tower sen 
tries ring alarm bells if they detect a problem. 
Whenever they do so, the officers and soldiers 
in the bailey barracks man the walls within 3- 
12 minutes. 

lower Sentry (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 
1; hp 6; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(crossbow) or 1-8 (sword); Save FI; ML 
8. AL N; XP 10. 

Gate Sentry (2): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 1; 
hp 6; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-10 (po- 
learm) or 1 -8 (sword); Save FI; ML 8; AL 
N; XP 10. 

16. The Common House 

This two-storv limestone building houses a 
kitchen and messroom on the first floor. The 
second floor contains a big 24-tub bath plus 
quarters for five attendants and cooks, all of 
whom are lay brothers. 

Lav Brothers (5); AC 9; HD 1; hp 4 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); 
Save FI; ML 6; AL N; XP 10 each 

The facility is used by those assigned to guest 
cottages. It has (unlocked) doors in the north 
and south walls An exterior entrance in the 
west wall gives access to a tool shed contain 
ing scores of gardener's, carpenter's, and ma 
son's tools. 

17. The Pens 


These pens arc made of sharpened, dose- 
set palmetto stakes pounded into the 
ground to make a 10-foot high pallisadc. 
The larger, southern pen contains six 
draft horses. The much smaller northern 
pen holds a score of filthy, half-naked 
men, women, and children, all of whom 
wear heavy leg irons that confine locomo 


tion to a pitiful hobble. A bi-valve gate in 
the center of each pen's eastern wall is se 
cured by a thick iron chain dosed by a 
stout padlock. A bored sentry patrols the 
perimeter of the pens. 


The human beings in the pens are prisoners 
of the order captured during slave raids and 
destined to be placed on the auction block as 
soon as a party of slave buyers arrives. 

Prisoners (20): AC 9, HD 1; hp 3 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT I; D 1-2 (fists); Save as 
normal man; ML 3; AL N; XP 10 each. 

Sentry (1): AC 7 (leather); HD 2; hp 12; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (crossbow) or 1-8 
(sword); Save F2; ML 8; AL N; XP 20. 

18. The Bailey Barracks 

This three-story limestone building houses 
two companies of troops, one on each of the 
two top floors. The physical arrangement of 
each barracks room is similar to that used by 
the company of soldiers in the southwest bar 
racks (9-63) of the lower dungeon. The first 
floor contains a kitchen, messroom, and bath 
for the officers and men. Each company has a 
commander and two sections, each of 15 lay 
brothers and one section leader. Except dur 
ing religious services, 45 soldiers, both com 
pany commanders, and one section leader 
occupy the building. During services, the 
building is empty. 

Commanders (2): AC 5 (chainmail); FID 3; 
hp 12 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1, D 1-6 
(mace); Save C3; ML 12; AL C; XP 35 
each. Each commander is an inner circle 
monk and knows the cleric spells protec 
tion from evil and remove fear 

Section Leaders (4): AC 7 (leather); HD 2; 
hp 8 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(mace); Save C2; ML 11; AL C; XP 20 
each. Each section leader is an outer circle 
monk and knows the cleric spell remove 
fear. 

Soldiers (45): AC 7 (leather); HD 1; hp 6 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1 -6 (cross 
bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save Fl; ML 8; AL 
N; XP 10 each. 

All of the building's occupants except for one 
section man the walls during alarms. One sec 
tion arrives at the scene of any disturbance in 
Frog Town, the outer bailey, or the temple gar 
den within 3-12 minutes. If there is no external 
threat, two more sections and both company 
commanders arrive in 15-20 minutes. 

The windowless building has but one door. 


in the center of the west wall. If the players 
manage to slip into this building and loot it, 
they find 800 gold pieces and 2,000 silver 
pieces in the lockers on the second and third 
floors. 

19. Warehouses 

Each windowless, one-story, whitewashed 
wooden warehouse is used to store a separate 
category of goods. Warehouses 19A, 19B, 
and 19C all have a 10-foot high by 10-foot 
wide double door centered in the south wall. 
The door to 19D is in its west wall. All doors 
arc secured with heavy iron padlocks. 

Building 19A holds comestibles, including 
250 barrels of flour, 50 barrels of pickets, 200 
barrels of salted meat, 100 barrels of salted 
fish, 50 barrels of oil, 90 casks of wine, cider, 
and spirits, 20 casks of salt, 50 casks of 
pressed fowl, 40 casks of sweet butter, 30 
casks of molasses, 100 bags of sugar, and 50 
bags of oats. With these items stacked to the 
rafters, there is barely room to move in the 
narrow aisles. 

Building 19B holds lumber, textiles and 
hides. The eastern third of the warehouse is 
given over to a lumber rack containing 500 
20-foot long 8-inch oak planks, 200 20-foot 
long six-inch oak timbers, and 100 20-foot 
long foot-thick oak baulks. The western third 
contains 50 10-foot diameter, six-foot width 
rolls of cloth of the colors and types used to 
make the various uniforms and robes of the 
order's members. Piled in the center of the 
warehouse's dirt floor is a stack of over 200 
bullock hides of the type used in making shoe 
soles and leather armor. Next to this moun 
tain of leather is a smaller pile of several hun 
dred untanned pelts from various swamp 
animals killed by the hunters and trappers in 
Frog Town. 

Building 19C holds enough weapons to 
equip a small army. There are 100 casks of 
steel quarrel heads, 20 casks of halberd 
heads, 25 casks of sword blades, 10 casks of 
rivets. 100 unpainted steel shields, 500 hel 
mets, 400 chainmail shirts, 200 casks of quar 
rels, five barrels of pikestaffs, and 25 crates of 
10 crossbows each. This wealth of weaponry 
does not even begin to fill the warehouse, and 
Saint Stephen considers it to be just a tithe of 
what he needs to equip the army he would 
like to build. 

Building 19D holds the parts of Stephen's 
lifeboat that have not already been salvaged 
to provide the temple with its magic. All of 
the vessel's electronics, power and computer 
equipment has been removed, but structural 
members and hull plating fill the warehouse 
with a jumble of bright metallic gear that is 


19 






THE CITY OF THE FROG 


incomprehensible to those not born on an 
other planet. 

20. The Counting House 

This one-story, whitewashed clapboard 
building has a single windowlcss room con 
taining 40 crude, straight-back chairs facing 
a podium near the center of the west wall. 
There arc locked doors in the west and east 
walls and six narrow, iron-barred windows 
each in the north and south walls. The struc 
ture is occupied only when one of the trading 
tioats brings in a party of slave buyers from 
the Duchy of Ten. There is a 5% chance of 
this happening during each day in which 
there are slaves in the pens (17). When a 
party arrives, a public slave auction is held, 
and the harbor master, one section of troops 
(15 soldiers and a section leader) from the 
bailey barracks (18), 1-4 slave buyers, and 
any slaves in the pens (17B) are present. 

Slave Buyers (4): AC 9; HD 2; hp 7 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); 
Save F2; ML 3; AL N; XP 20 each. Each 
slave buyer carries a bag of holding con 
taining 7,000 gold pieces, and each has 
two bodyguards. Slave buyers fight only 
to defend their persons and property. 

Bodyguards (8): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 
4; hp 16 each; MV 120'(40'); #AT 1; D 1- 
4 (club); Save F4; ML 8; AL N; XP 75 
each. Each bodyguard carries ten sets of 
leg irons and a ring of keys that fit them. 
They will fight only in defense of them 
selves, their masters, or their masters' 
property. 

Prisoners are auctioned one at a time. The 
process consists of first showing off each pris 
oner, allowing the buyers to examine his mus 
cles, dentition, etc. Then, the buyers bid 
against each other for ownership of the indi 
vidual. The harbor master serves as the auc 
tioneer When he has called a high bid three 
times, he gavels a sale. The prisoner is loosed 
from his leg irons, and new irons brought by 
his buyer are fit. The auction ends when all 
prisoners are sold. Since few buyers care for 
the temple's hospitality, they invariably leave 
the city with their purchases as soon as the 
auction is over. Prisoners fetch 100-800 gold 
pieces on the block at Frog Island. 

21. The Harbor Master's Quarters 

The harbor master occupies this one-story, 
two-room clapboard house. One room serves 
as an office; the other is his bed chamber. A 
half-ton steel vault built into the west wall of 
the building holds 500 gold pieces and 1,000 


silver pieces. The harbor master is present 
except when examining the cargo of an in 
coming trading boat or supervising an auc 
tion. Entrance is gained by a single door in 
the building's west wall. The quarters are 
kept locked. 

Harbor Master: AC 9; HD 4; hp 18; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (mace); Save C4; 
ML 12; AL C; XP 75. The harbor master 
is an inner circle monk and knows the 
cleric spells protection from evil, remove 
fear, and hold person. His purse contains 
40 gold pieces, and he wears on his belt a 
heavy ring containing the keys to the 
warehouses (19), counting house (20), 
harbor master's quarters (24), and the leg 
irons worn by the order's prisoners. 

22. Blockhouses 

These 10-foot square, one-story limestone 
buildings are blockhouses around which the 
order can rally to defend the harbor. In each 
case, the wall that faces away from the harbor 
contains a stout oak door that can be barred 
from the inside, but that have no exterior 
lock. The other walls each contain two arrow 
slits. 

23. The Haven 

The shallow waters of the Haven are only 10 
feet deep in most places, but that is plenty of 
draft for the shallow-bottomed trading boats 
that the order uses to carry goods to and from 
the Duchy of Ten. At any given time, there 
are 1 -4 of these boats tied up at the docks in 
this harbor, and one boat arrives or departs 
each day, on average. These boats are identi 
cal to Grctchin ' Fctchin ' (and carry the same 
crew). The captain and crew sleep on board 
their vessels, and will fight to defend them 
There is a 90% chance that any disturbance 
in the harbor causes the soldiers in towers 
26A and 26B to raise the alarm. During the 
day, there are five lay brothers on the docks 
working as stcvadorcs. 

Captain: AC 7 (leather armor); HD 4; hp 16; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); 
Save F4; ML 11; AL N; XP 40. The cap 
tain's purse cholds 40 gold pieces. 

Crewmen (8): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 2; 
hp 10; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(crossbow or short sword); Save F2; ML 
8; AL N; XP 20 each. Each crewmen car 
ries a short sword. In addition, one cross 
bow and one case of 20 quarrels per 
crewman is bracketed to the boat's low 
gunwales for use in emergencies. Each 
crewman's purse holds 15 gold pieces. 


Lay Brothers (5): AC 9; HD 2; hp 8 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); 
Save F2; ML 6; AL N; XP 20 each 

24. The Bailey Master's Quarters 

The bailey master occupies this two-story, 
clapboard house. The first floor is an office; 
the second is a bed chamber. The bailey mas 
ter runs the outer bailey, except for the harbor 
area. He is present except during religious 
services and alarms. The building's only en 
trance is a locked door in the east wall 

Bailey Master: AC 7 (leather armor); HD 4; 
hp 16; MV 120' (40'); #AT I; D 1-6 
(mace); Save C4; ML 12; AL C; XP 75. 
The bailey master is an inner circle monk 
and knows the cleric spells protection 
from evil, remove fear, and hold person. 
His purse holds 30 gold pieces, and he car 
ries a ring of keys that unlock the door to 
his quarters and all of the buildings to 
which the harbor master has keys. 

25. Guest Cottages 

Each of the 16 one-story, whitewashed 
wooden guest houses has bunk space for 10 
persons plus a stove and latrine. Unlike the 
other buildings in the outer bailey, the cot 
tages do not have lockable doors. 

Cottage 25A houses the wizard Lorca, who 
has been retained by Saint Stephen to assist in 
the order's magical research. Cottages 25M, 
25N, and 25P each house 10 acolytes; 25D, 
25E, and 25F each house five lay brothers. The 
odier cottages arc empty. Lorca is in die secret 
archives (8-49) between the end of sunrise serv 
ice and noon. He is in his cottage at all other 
times except when an alarm is sounded; then he 
automatically gravitates toward the source of 
the alarm, reaching the scene in 5-10 minutes. 
The acolytes and lay brothers are in their cot 
tages only after midnight. Between sundown 
and midnight, they are in Frog Town. At other 
times, they are working in the outer bailey, tem 
ple. or garden. Except for Lorca's spell book 
and a locked chest holding 1500 gold pieces in 
cottage 25A, dtesc cottages hold nothing of 
value. 

Lorca: AC 8; HD 10; hp 40; MV 120' (40'); 
#AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger) or by spell: Save 
M10; ML 10; AL C; XP 900. Lorca 
knows the magic user's spells charm per 
son, detect magic, read magic, invisibility, 
knock, wizard lock, dispel magic, fireball, 
protection from evil 10' radius, confusion, 
polymorph self, wall of fire, animate 
dead, and cloudkill. He wears a ring of 
protection +1, 5' radius, and carries a 
wand of negation. 


20 




THE CITY OF THE FROG 


Acolytes (10): AC 9; HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (mace); Save Cl; 
ML 10; AL C; XP 10 each. 

Lay Brothers (5): AC 9; HD 2; hp 8 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); 
Save F2; ML 6; AL N; XP 20 each. 

26. The Harbor lowers 


Each of these windowless 30-foot high 
towers contains a winding stair that spi 
rals down to a doorway in the inner bailey. 
The door in tower 26A faces west; that to 
26B faces north. These doors have no 
locks, but can be barred from the inside at 
need. Short stairs lead from the tower's 
top to the adjacent batdements of the 
outer bailey walls. Atop each crenelated 
tower is an east-facing catapult. There is 
one soldier atop each tower who rings an 
alarm bell if he detects a problem. When 
ever he docs so, the troops in the bailey 
barracks arrive to man the walls in 3-12 
minutes. 


Soldier (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 1; hp 
6; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (cross 
bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save FI; ML 8; AL 
N; XP 10. 

FROG IX)WN 

During the temple's early days, some fur 
traders wheedled permission to set up trading 
posts along the southern shore of Frog Island 
beneath the walls of the outer bailey. Over 
time, others came to these posts-drifters, 
bawds, criminals on the run. They formed a 
small community called Frog Town. As it 
grew, Frog Town ceased to be a haven for 
traders and became a nest of bandits who 
preyed on the Duchy of Ten and the Barony 
of the Lakes. When their many depredations 
finally threatened to bring too much atten 
tion to the temple and draw a punitive expe 
dition down on the monks' heads, the order 
acted. 

The newly installed high priest, Saint 
Stephen, led the monks and their armed lay 
brothers in a surprise night attack on Frog 
Town. Once they had control of the town, 
they executed its leaders and worst bandits 
(generally one and the same). The survivors 
were brought under temple control, exercised 
by an inner circle monk who served as its 
"resident" and had veto power over all activ 
ity. 

Thereafter, Frog Town became a dumping 
ground for persons whose services were de 
sired by the temple, but whom it could scarce 


enslave and did not want to recruit as lay 
brothers. Now, it is little more than a labor 
pool for the order, a kind of warehouse for 
their hirelings. Most of the members of the 
order's slaving parties dwell in Frog Town. So 
do the "swamp rats," the hunters and fisher 
men who provide the temple with fresh meat 
and fish. Bawds, publicans, and a few slaves 
round out the little town's current popula 
tion. 

The residents of Frog Town are pretty 
much left alone within the town, but they 
can't leave without permission. To ensure 
that they abide by this restriction, they all 
wear plastic collars containing miniature 
transmitters similar to those worn by the 
killer frogs. The collars emit a steady signal 
showing the wearer's location. The Frog 
Towner's collars also contain a self-destruct 
feature that causes them to explode (doing 8- 
32 points of damage to the wearer) if tam 
pered with. 

This and other indignities have spawned 
much resentment in Frog Town. If given the 
opportunity, at least half of the slavers and 
most of the other residents would sack the 
temple and win their freedom. For the 
present. Frog Towners keep their mouths 
shut and bide their time, but, unless other 
wise noted, if the PCs reveal their true pur 
pose to a Frog Towner other than Ratty Tom 
(1-28), there is a 50% chance that their confi 
dant will assist them and a 5% chance that he 
will turn them in to the order. 

Even if the players make no attempt to 
raise Frog Town against the order, it is an ex 
cellent place to gather information. During 
the day, almost all of the residents are abed, 
and no Froggies are visible. At night, the 
place comes alive, and most Frog Towners 
are at revel in one of the taverns or bawdy 
houses. Since Frog Town boasts the only real 
entertainment in the City of the Frog, most 
olf-duty Froggies below the rank of saint usu 
ally end up there. None of the celebrating 
Froggies speak of the temple's lower 
dungeon, but there is much "shop talk" on 
other order-related matters. One of the items 
of "information" that the PCs pick up in 
Frog Town is a (false) rumor that the rooms in 
the upper floors of the temple house impor 
tant prisoners. 

27. Frau Jin's House 

Frog Town, Frau Jin's two-story woodframe 
establishment is a tavern and bawdy house 
employing a barkeep and six wenches. At 
night, there are 20 patrons in the common 
room, most of them slavers or swamp rats. 
Since Frau Jin doesn't conceal her distaste for 


the order, its members avoid her place, and it 
is a hotbed of anti-temple sentiment. The 
depredations of the killer frogs during their 
hunting forays are a common subject of dis 
cussion. Frau Jin is a woman of immense 
girth, with a pleasant, open face and an 
earthy sense of humor. Her hard exterior ef 
fectively masks an equally hard interior, but 
there is a 20% chance that she will risk hiding 
order's enemies. 

Frau Jin: AC 9; HD 2; hp 9; MV 120' (40'); 
MT I; D 1-4 (dagger); Save F2; ML 12; 
AL N; XP 20. 

Frau Jin's Barkeep: AC 7 (leather armor); 
HD 4; hp 16; MV 120'(40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 
(mace); Save F4; ML 9; AL N; XP 75. 

Frau Jin's Wenches (6): AC 9; HD 1; hp 4 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT I; D 1-4 (dag 
ger); Save FI; ML 4; AL N; XP 10 each. 

28. Ratty Tom's Place 

Ratty Tom's is a tavern presided over by a 
big, blustery onetime slaver. While the PCs 
can pick up much information at Ratty 
Tom's, the proprietor is a spy for the order, 
and secrcdy reports all that he hears to the 
resident. The wenches who work both the 
common room and the second-floor bordello, 
are also spies, albeit unwilling ones. Having 
been purchased from the order by Ratty 
Tom, they must do his, which includes spying 
on customers. Ratty Tom keeps them locked 
up on the second floor after hours. On any 
given night, there are 30 slavers and lay 
brothers in the common room. Ratty Tom's 
quarters off the common room contains a 
locked chest holding 1,000 gold coins. 

Ratty Tom: AC 7 (leather armor); HD 3; hp 
12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (club); 
Save F3; ML 6; AL N; XP 35. 

Ratty Tom's Wenches (9): AC 9; HD 1; hp 4 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 (kick); 
Save as normal man; ML 4; AL N; XP 5 
each. 

29. Black Nell's Dock 

Black Nell is an elderly witch who runs a gen 
eral store where customers can purchase 
food, clothing, weapons, and all standard 
equipment. Prices are twice those listed on 
page 19 of the D&D(r) Expert rules. Though 
she does not speak openly, she nurses a pri 
vate hatred for the order stemming from her 
son's execution during its attack on Frog 
Town. There is an 90% chance that she will 
assist its enemies. 


21 





THE CITY OF THE FROG 


Black Nell: AC 9; HD 5; hp 15; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger) or by spell; 
Save M5; ML 10; AL N; XP 175 Black 
Nell knows the magic user spells protec 
tion from evil, sleep, knock, wizard lock. 
and fly. 

30. The Peg-Leg Manticorc 

This inn is a favorite of the monks and lay 
brothers, since it is owned by the temple. 
Former slaver captain Prestor Bumpo runs 
the place on the order's behalf. The bar 
tender and 12 wenches are all slaves of the or 
der, and arc locked up on the second floor 
after hours. On any given night, there are 35 
patrons in the common room. 

Prestor Bumpo: AC 7 (leather armor); HD 5; 
hp 20; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 
(sword); Save F5; ML 9; AL N; XP 175. 
Bumpo's purse holds 30 gold pieces. 

Prestor Bumpo's Bartender: AC 9; HD 1; hp 
7; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (club); 
save as normal man; ML 6; AL N; XP 5. 

Prestor Bumpo's Wenches (12): AC 9; HD 1; 
hp 4 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 
(kick); Save as normal man; ML 4; AL N; 
XP 5 each. 

Each night, after closing up, Bumpo takes the 
night's receipts (30 gold pieces and 200 silver 
pieces) to the residency. The order lets him 
keep only 100 copper pieces, 100 silver 
pieces, and 10 gold pieces on sight. 

31. Gillie's Tavern 

This two-story, limestone building is the fa 
vored watering hole of most swamp rats and 
some slavers. The proprietor, Dhu Gillie, is 
an old swamp rat, himself. At night, there are 
20 patrons in the common room. The cadav 
erous Gillie and his three pretty daughters 
(Lisa, Sarah, and Kristina) do all the work. 
All four live on the top floor. 

As a side business, Gillie runs a bank for 
Frog Town residents. The old man is holding 
deposits amounting to 4,000 gold pieces and 
8,000 silver pieces locked in five sturdy chests 
in his quarters. 

Both Gillie and his daughters hate the or 
der, and would aid in its destruction if they 
saw any chance of winning. If Gillie joins an 
attack on the order, all of the swamp rats also 
join. Gillie is devoted to his girls, and would 
do almost anything to keep them from harm. 
Not that there is much danger of that. Gillie's 
daughters are big, rangy girls who love to 
prowl the deep marsh and can negotiate Frog 
Swamp with the same facility as swamp rats. 


Dhu Gillie: AC 7 (leather armor); HD 5; hp 
20; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); 
Save F5; ML It; AL N; XP 175. 

Dhu Gillie's Daughters (3): AC 9; HD 2; hp 
8; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger) 
or 1-6 (short sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL 
N; XP 20 each. 

32. Hester's Place 

Wife ofa trader executed by die order, Hester 
Mably and her three children now survive on 
the charity of Dhu Gillie's family, Black Nell, 
Frau Jin, and Mama Egraine's girls. Much 
as she fears the order, there is a 95 % chance 
that Hester will hide its enemies in the small 
cellar below her one-rootn shanty. 

Hester & Children (4): AC 9; HD 1; hp 3; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 (kick); Save 
as normal man; ML 5; AL N; XP 5. 

33. Mama Egraine's 

This comfortable, one-story wood-frame 
structure is a bawdy house catering to the up 
per crust. Mama Egraine and her girls make 
a nice living from their enterprise, and their 
various caches hold 3,000 gold pieces. At 
night, there arc a dozen patrons in the parlor. 
At least half are captains or members of the 
order's inner or outer circles. There is a 50% 
chance that a saint other than Saint Stephen 
is present. 

Mama F.graine: AC 9; HD 2; hp 8; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); Save F2; 
ML 9; AL N; XP 20. 

Mama's Girls (5): AC 9; HD 1; hp 5 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); 
Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 10 each 

34. The Fast Roger 

This sprawling, one-story, limestonebuilding 
is a tavern and bawdy house owned by the or 
der and run by a mysterious swamp rat who 
calls himself Weewak. The tall, bald, dark- 
skinned killer joined the order's company of 
swamp rats shortly after Stephen took over, 
lb all appearances, he is a loyal servant of the 
order. The rest of the stafT, a bartender and 
10 wenches, are all slaves that Weewak keeps 
locked up in the south wing after hours. At 
night, the north wing's common room hosts 
40 patrons. Weewak keeps receipts amount 
ing to 500 gold pieces and 1,000 silver pieces 
in a locked ironbound oak chest in his quar 
ters just off the common room. 

Weewak: AC 0; HD 20; hp 8; MV 120' (80'); 
#AT 1 fist or weapon; D 3-30 (fist) or 6-36 
(hand blaster); Save F10; ML 12; AL N; 


XP 2,000. Weewak carries a blaster with a 
spare power pack. He has infravision, and 
can also breathe underwater. He can be 
harmed only by magic or magic weapons, 
but is immune to sleep, charm, control, 
and hold spells. 

Far from being a loyal servant of the order, 
the taciturn Weewak is dedicated to its utter 
destruction. He is, in fact, a cyborg assigned 
by the alien vessel's captain to track down 
and kill any surviving mutineers and destroy 
all traces of alien technology left by their es 
cape. Having located the mutineers, he now 
awaits an opportunity to carry out his mis 
sion. When the time is right, he plans to kill 
the mutineers and destroy the temple, so that 
all of the salvaged technology will be unusa 
ble. If Weewak learns the PCs purpose, he ac 
tively aids them in order to gain their aid in 
getting inside die temple. 

Inside Weewak is a powerful self-destruct 
device that disintegrates everything within 30 
feet when detonated. Once he is inside the 
temple and believes that the mutineers arc 
dead, he detonates the device next to its main 
pillars, collapsing the building. Anyone in 
side the temple on the turn after the detona 
tion is buried in the rubble, taking 8-80 
points of damage. 

Weewak's Bartender: AC 9; HD 3; hp 15; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (club); Save 
F3; ML 8; AL N; XP 10. 

Weewak's Wenches (10): AC 9; HD 1; hp 4 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 (fist); 
Save as normal man; ML 5; AL N; XP 5 
each. 

35. Cymbcline's 

This two-story tavern and bawdy house also 
offers games of chance tun by Cymbcline's 
girls, all ex-slaves imported to Frog Town 
from the flesh pots of Starport. Having 
bought their freedom, Cymbelinc's girsl arc 
now partners in this lucrative enterprise. The 
various false-bottomed drawers, hidden 
chests, and secret niches in the building hold 
8,000 gold pieces. 

The proprietor is a widow, whose husband 
was among those killed during the order's at 
tack on Frog Town. Since her marriage was 
one of convenience, Cymbcline does not hate 
the order as violendy as some others in Frog 
Town, but she certainly bears it no love. 
There is a 60% chance that she will hide the 
order's enemies. There is also a 30% chance 
that she will provide the order's enemies with 
a possession that she thinks may be of use to 
them. This is a frog control ring that a 


22 




THE CITY OF THE FROG 


drunken keeper pledged against a gambling 
debt Since the keeper tumbled into the moat 
and died on his way home on the night of his 
big loss, it has always been assumed that the 
ring was lost with him. Though she knows 
that the monk put great store by the ring and 
that all keepers wear similar rings, Cyrnbe- 
line is unaware of its purpose. 

Cymbeline: AC 9; HD 2; hp 8; MV 120' 
(40'): #AT 1; D 1-4 + poison (poisoned 
dagger). Save T2; ML 9; AL N: XP 20. 

Cymbeline's Girls (5): AC 9; HD 1; hp 4 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dag 
ger); Save Tl: ML 8; AL N; XP 10 each. 

36. Slaver Shacks 

Each of these one-story wooden shacks 
houses 15 slavers and a slaver captain. There 
arc five shacks, altogether. 

Slavers (16): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 2; hp 
8 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 
(sling) or 1-8 (sword). Save F2; ML 7; AL 
N; XP 20 each. Each slaver carries a 
purse holding 20 gold pieces. 

Slaver Captain (1): AC 7 (leather armor); 
HD 4; hp 16 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; 
1-8 (sword); Save F4; ML 8; AL N; XP 
75 each. The captain carries a purse hold 
ing 40 gold pieces. 

The shacks contain oak bunk beds, cooking 
stoves, and modest stores of food. Due to the 
comparative lawlessness of Frog Town, the 
residents keep nothing of value within them. 
There is a 10% chance that the residents of 
each shack will be away on a raid. Even when 
they are gone, they leave the doors to their 
shacks unlocked. If not off on a raid, the slav 
ers and their captain are in their shacks dur 
ing the day sleeping off the effects of the 
previous night's revels. From just before sun 
down until around midnight, the shacks are 
empty, and the residents are at one of the tav 
erns or bawdy houses in Frog Town. 

37. Rat Shacks 

Each of these one-story wooden shacks 
houses five hunters or fishermen. These pros 
are called "swamp rats" in tribute to theic 
ability to get along in the hostile Great Dis 
mal Swamp All together, there are 30 swamp 
rats in six shacks. 

Swamp Rats (5): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 
5; hp 20each; MV 120'(40'); #AT 1; D I- 
6 (bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F5; ML 9; 
AL N; XP 175. Each swamp rat carries a 
purse holding 30 gold pieces. Parties ac 
companied by swamp rats check for en 


counters in Frog Swamp half as often as 
parties not so blessed. 

The shacks contain oak bunk beds, cooking 
stoves, and modest stores of food. Due to the 
comparative lawlessness of Frog Town, the 
residents keep nothing of value within them. 
There is a 30% chance that the residents of 
each shack are on a hunting trip or guiding a 
band of slavers through the treacherous 
swamps. Even when they are gone, they 
leave the doors to their shacks unlocked. If 
not absent on a raid or hunting trip, the 
swamp rats arc in their shacks during the day 
working on their weapons or cleaning hides. 
From sundown until midnight, the shacks are 
empty, and the swamp rats are at one of the 
taverns or bawdy houses in Frog Town. 

38. Market Houses 

These two abandoned shacks are the site of a 
Frog Towner black market in various items, 
including pelts and goods stolen from the or 
der. In addition to pelts, very small quantities 
of any items other than lumber stored in the 
outer bailey's warehouses can be purchased 
after dark in these buildings. 

39. Frau Jin's Barn 

Frau Jin keeps a pair of cows in this small, 
one-story, wooden structure. Built into the 
northeast corner is a small chicken coop. A 
trap door in the northwest corner leads to a 
shallow hidden basement where Frau Jin 
hides anyone she gives sanctuary from the or 
der. 

40. Sheds 

Each of these rickety sheds holds a variety of 
construction, nautical, agricultural, and log 
ging tools. There is an 80% chance that any 
common tool or item of equipment the PCs 
want can be stolen from one of these sheds 
(providing, of course, that no one observes 
them and raises the alarm). The shed doors 
close with a simple latch. 

41. The Slick 

This stinking pool of brackish water is coated 
by a thin film of black liquid. From time to 
time, the pool gives off noxious fumes. The 
fumes are natural gas. Throwing a torch or 
other open flame into the pool causes an ex 
plosion that does 3-36 points of damage to 
anyone within 30 feet, blows out every win 
dow in Frog Town, and causes an alarm 
throughout the city. 

42. The Residency 

The Resident oversees Frog Tbwn on behalf 


of the order from this windowless, one-story, 
one-room stone blockhouse. The building is 
both home and office. A large locked chest in 
the room's southwest comer holds 500 gold 
pieces and 1,000 silver pieces. The Resident 
has a radio communicator in the southeast 
comer with which he keeps the temple in 
formed about conditions in Frog Town. En 
trance is gained by a single door in the 
building's north wall. The quarters are kept 
locked. Except during religious services, the 
resident is always present. 

The Resident: AG 7 (leather armor); HD 6; 
hp 24; MV 120' (40*); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(mace); Save C6; ML 12; AL C. XP 275. 
This short, rotund cleric is an inner circle 
monk and knows the cleric spells protec 
tion from evil, remove fear, hold person, 
speak with animal, and remove curse. His 
purse holds 20 gold pieces and the keys to 
the residency. 

43. New Harbor 

There arc no less than 30 flat-bottomed ca 
noes drawn up on the shore or tethered to the 
palmetto log docks of this small harbor. All of 
these vessels belong to swamp rats or other 
residents of Frog Town. There is a 90% 
chance during the day and a 10% chance at 
night that anyone trying to steal one of these 
canoes will be observed by someone who will 
sound the alarm. This draws 4-16 assorted 
residents to the area within 1-4 minutes. 
While Frog Towners tend to ignore other 
alarms, those who appear as a result of this 
alarm will fight to keep the canoes from being 
damaged or stolen and to capture the thieves. 

44. East Harbor 

There are no less than five trading boats 
docked at the palmetto log piers of this small 
harbor. These vessels belong to order and are 
used to carry slavers on their raids. They 
aren't occupied or guarded, but attempting 
to steal one in daylight causes the soldier in 
lower 26B to sound the alarm. There is a 
20% chance that a similar attempt at night 
causes an alarm. 


23 





















THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 


The walls of the frog-shaped temple building 
are constructed of finely dressed 500-pound 
blocks of green limestone, closely morticed to 
make it appear that the entire structure is an 
organic whole-as if it is, in fact, a giant frog. 
Even the limestone flags that cover the floors 
of all of the rooms are tightly joined to further 
this effect. Generations of sculptors have la 
bored to carve the exterior stone of the temple 
in the likeness of a frog, softly rounding an 
gles to make them appear more lifelike. In 
side the temple, these same sculptors have 
decorated walls and pillars with spectacular 
friezes of frogs and froglike beings in all man 
ner of poses. 

Nor have the sculptors confined them 
selves to the walls. Every doorway inside the 
aboveground temple boasts an elaborately 
carved door hand-crafted from a single slab 
of white oak. Sconces carved in the shape of 
grinning upthrust frog faces arc set in the 
walls of all halls and corridors at intervals of 
10 feet, the mouth of each frog accomodating 
a white candle symbolizing the purity of the 
frog. The tops of pillars are decorated with 
carved ferns, through whose leafy fronds 
peek dozens of tiny, grotesque amphibian vis- 
ages. 

Alien technology multiplies the impact of 
this weird decor. In fact, the temple is perme 
ated with the magic of technology. It takes the 
following forms: 

Lighting: Unless otherwise noted, all of the 
aboveground rooms and corridors are fitted 
with powerful loot-square glow panels that 
emit a diffused, almost heavenly light when 
turned on. The panels contain sensors that 
tell them when someone is in the room. When 
they sense a biological presence, they start to 
operate at a preset level. The room's occu 
pant can change the amount of light the panel 
gives off by verbally instructing it in the com 
mon tongue to "dim" or "brighten up." 
Equipped with their own power cells, these 
panels can operate for months without re 
charging. They are supplemented in the nave 
by the focused beams of accent lights used for 
dramatic effect. The presence of alien light 
ing devices does not prevent the use of dark 
ness spells. 

Security: Except where otherwise noted, all 
doors other than secret doors are tied into an 
electronic security system that seals them to 
those who lack the proper identity code. The 
codes are built into the rings worn by the or 
der's members. Those doors that are tied into 
this system automatically open whenever 
someone wearing the correct ring touches 
their handles. In all other respects, treat them 


as if they were wizard locked by a 7th level 
magic user. They can be opened by magic. 

Environment: The interior of the above 
ground temple is environment-controlled to 
keep it at a constant temperature of 68 de 
grees. a noticable 10 to 15 degrees cooler than 
the temperature outside. The environmental 
control unit is part of the power plant (5-54), 
but is controlled from the computer room (5- 
53). This system merely changes the ambient 
temperature inside the temple. It can't be 
used as a weapon, and its effects aren't ne 
gated by magic items or spells meant to ne 
gate the effects of cold. 

Plumbing: Pumping machinery in the 
power plant pumps both hot and cold run 
ning water through a maze of plastic pipes 
cannibalized from Stephen's lifeboat. This 
mechanical systems workings aren't stopped 
by magic items or spells. 

Communications: A computer-controlled 
intercom built into the temple walls links all 
rooms. All Froggies have an I.D. code that 
they can use to talk to the occupants of any 
room. Conversations arc initiated by simply 
saying aloud" [four-digit I.D. code] initiat 
ing communication with [name of room|." 
These words activate sound pickups in both 
the room the speaker occupies and the room 
he wants to contact. All sounds emanating 
from cither room are heard in the other. 
Though the sounds are projected at their des 
tination through small, cunningly concealed 
wall and ceiling speakers, they seem to come 
from the ether. The circuit is open, and com 
munication continues, until someone with a 
valid I.D. in one of the two linked rooms says 
aloud" \four-digil I.D. code] terminating 
conversation." The computer can override 
I.D. codes in order to permit general an 
nouncements or cut off some areas or persons 
from communication. Magic items and spells 
that retard or prevent the use of clairaudiencc 
temporarily block the functioning of all inter 
coms within range. 

Monitoring: Visual pickups set into hidden 
glassed-in recesses in the walls provide a com 
plete view of the temple nave (2-1), Hall of 
Saints (2-12), Hall of Thist (2-13), choir loft 
(3-26), Hall of Toil (4-40), Hall of Peace (5- 
44), west stairs (5-46), cast stairs (5-47), and 
breeding pond 9-60. All of these areas can be 
viewed using any of the monitors attached to 
the computer. They are regularly scanned 
from the computer room. Magic items and 
spells that retard or prevent the use of clair 
voyance temporarily block the functioning oi 
all visual pickups within range. 


Computer Control: The environmental sys 
tem, the accent lights, the door machinery, 
the altar machinery, and the communications 
system are controlled by the computer in 
room 5-53. In addition, it controls the Tem 
ple Gate (1-4) and Bailey Gate (1-14). 

Other Machinery: The power plant powers 
the altar machinery, the east and west door 
machinery, the machine shop, the Mind of 
the Frog (7-63), the automated medical 
equipment in the lower dungeon's laboratory 
(9-57), and the two autoblasters in Saint 
Stephen's room (6-61). Unless otherwise 
noted, these items are mechanical devices 
whose workings aren't affected by magic 
items or spells. 

Personal Weapons & Equipment: The ali 
ens and their most trusted henchmen are 
equipped with alien weapons of two different 
types: hand blasters and heavy blasters. A 
hand blaster is a small, easily concealed 
weapon that works exactly like a wand of fire 
balls (doing 6-36 points of damage at a range 
of 240 feet). A heavy blaster is a two-handed, 
shoulder-fired weapon the size of a crossbow 
that works like a wand of fireballs, but does 8- 
48 points of damage at 360 feet. Both weap 
ons use the same power packs. They can be 
reloaded with new power packs. Each pack 
has 5-20 charges (uses) when the players ob 
tain it (or encounter someone who posscses it. 
In addition to these weapons, all aliens and 
some others wear alien batde armor, a form 
fitting, acrylic mesh with a repulsion field 
that gives the wearer armor class 0. without 
adding to encumbrance. Each suit of battle 
armor is powered by a small power cell that 
lasts 1-4 months. When the power is gone, 
the armor ceases to function. 

Alien Possessions: All aliens have two spe 
cial devices. Each wears a small translator 
badge (a quarter-inch diameter) plastic disc) 
that lets him understand and speak (but not 
read) all languages. Each disc's power pack 
can keep it operating for 5-20 months. Each 
alien also has a miniature transmitter- 
receiver implanted in his mastoid that lets 
him bypass the temple communications sys 
tem in order to talk directly to the computer 
or another alien. 

To the PCs, as to the monks themselves, all of 
these devices are a form of magic, and you 
should take this into account in your descrip 
tions. For example, instead of describing a 
glow panel in technological terms, you might 
refer to it as "a smooth, flat stone that gives 
off a ghostly light like white hot coals, but that 
stays cool to the touch and is not consumed." 


25 


THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 


Since the PCs are unfamiliar with these de 
vices, they won't know how to use them un 
less they are shown or they spend time 
examining them. If a character tries to figure 
out how a device works, roll d%. He has a 
success chance equal to his intelligence: a roll 
of 99-100 indicates that he misuses the item, 
cither breaking it or inflicting damage on 
himself or another player as a result of mis 
use. 

Except as specifically noted above, magic 
items and spells don't affect the operation of 
technological devices. Thus, a dispel magic 
spell cast over the power plant doesn't shut it 
down. Those technological devices of other 
than a purely mechanical nature can be de 
tected by magic, though, and spells and mag 
ical weapons can damage them. The exotic 
materials of which these devices are made arc 
proof against normal weapons. 

Unless otherwise noted, all doors, cabi 
nets, desks, and wardrobes are locked. 
Wooden cabinet and room doors can be 
forced open. Wooden cabinet doors, but not 
room doors or metal cabinet doors can be 
opened by picking their locks. Every door can 
be opened by a knock spell. 

In general, only members of the order who 
have assigned duties inside the temple or who 
are attending worship services are allowed to 
enter the building. Others can enter only 
when summoned, and then they must be es 
corted throughout their visit by an acolyte as 
signed to them by the temple secretary. 
Soldiers stand guard at the front door to en 
sure that unauthorized persons don't tres 
spass. 

Unauthorized visitors and those visitors 
who enter restricted areas without proper au 
thorization risk detection and capture as a re 
sult of encounters with the temple staff or 
members of the order. Roll Id6 every other 
turn to see if intruders have an encounter in 
the aboveground part of the temple; an en 
counter occurs on a result of 1. 

If the computer detects an unauthorized 
presence, it sounds an alarm placing the en 
tire temple on alert until the intruders escape 
or are captured or killed. In this case, roll ld6 
every turn (instead of every other turn) to see 
if the intruders have an encounter in the 
aboveground temple: an encounter occurs on 
a result of 1. 

Determine the nature of each encounter by 
rolling ld4 if the computer has not sounded 
the alarm and ld8 if it has done so. 

1 Acolyte (1): AC 9; HD 1; hp 6; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 (fist); Save Cl; ML 
10; AL C; XP 10. 


2 Outer Circle Member (1): AC 9; HD 3; 
hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 (fist); 
Save C3; ML 11; AL C; XP 35. The 
monk knows the cleric spells protection 
from evil and remove fear. 

3 Inner Circle Member (1): AC 9; HD 4; 
hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 6-36 
(hand blaster); Save C4; ML 12, AL C; 
XP 75. The monk knows the cleric spells 
detect evil, protection from evil, and hold 
person. 

4 Soldiers (2): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 
8 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 
(sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL C; XP 20 
each. 

5 Soldiers (6): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 3; hp 
15 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(crossbow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F3; ML 
10; AL C; XP 35 each. 

6 Soldiers (12): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 3; 
hp 12 each, MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(crossbow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F3; ML 
10; ALC; XP 35 each. 

7 Special: The intruders encounter 6 sol 
diers as per a 5 result. They are accompa 
nied by cither the librarian (see 2-23), or 
by the sexton and choir master (see 2-5 
and 2-14), at your option. 

8 Special: The intruders encounter 12 sol 
diers as per a 6 result. The soldiers arc ac 
companied by either the librarian (see 
2-23), the high priest (see 2-19), the 
guardian (see 2-21), the choir master (see 
2-14), or the sexton (see 2-5), at your op 
tion. 

If the alarm has not been sounded, members 
of the order who encounter the intruders try 
to escape and raise the alarm; the computer 
becomes aware of the intruders' presence the 
turn after they successfully do so. The alarm 
is automatically sounded whenever the in 
truders enter the computer room (5-53) or 
encounter an alien. 

The alarm consists of a soft female voice 
endlessly repeating over the intercom the 
words "intruder alert" and the name of the 
level or area in which the intruders were last 
encountered. If all power is shut down or the 
computer is destroyed, then the alarm ceases 
to sound, but is still in effect. 

Any Froggies that encounter the intruders 
during and alarm call upon them to surren 
der. If the intruders don't do so, the Froggies 
attack; they will break off their attack to par- 
lay. Promises made to secure the intruders' 
surrender are not honored. Instead, after be 


ing incarcerated in the lower dungeon's spe 
cial treatment cell (9-71) for 2-8 weeks, the 
intruders are either turned into frog folk 
(80% chance) or made to "join the Frog" at a 
special mass sacrifice (20% chance). Being 
enamoured of Saint Stephen's "magic," all 
Froggies use blasters in preference to other 
weapons, happily blasting away at intruders 
from the greatest possible range. 

Special Note: The descriptions that follow 
often ignore the presence in cabinets and 
closets of such items as clothing, footwear, 
toiletries, small amounts of money, clerical 
supplies, and the like. Assume that all desks 
contain a generous supply of writing quills, 
ink pots, and parchment in addition to any 
other items noted. Unless otherwise noted, 
assume that, in addition to any other items, 
all wardrobes contain 2-4 pairs of sandals, 2-6 
cinctures, assorted toiletries, 4-8 robes, tu 
nics or cloaks appropriate to the rank of the 
room's occupant(s), assorted underwear, and 
a sack or box holding 10-100 gold pieces. 

GROUND FLOOR 

The temple's ground floor contains areas 
used in religious observances, meditation, 
and temple administration. Unless otherwise 
noted, all areas have 10-foot ceilings. 

1. Temple Nave 


It is almost 150 feet from the great bronze 
doorways at the front of the temple to the 
frog-shaped altar against the back wall, 
and a purest white lambs' wool carpet 
covers the 20-foot wide aisle every step of 
the way. On cither side, the aisle is flanked 
by ten massive pillars carved with intri 
cate friezes showing frogs and other 
vaguely slimy things performing a variety 
of human tasks-from harvesting a crop 
of reedlike plants to keeping ledgers in an 
amphibian counting house. These pillars 
support a 50-foot ceiling cut from the 
same green stone as the walls and pillars 
and carved in the same intricate fashion as 
the latter. 

The northern half of the hall opens out 
35 feet on cither side of the aisle to make 
room for seven 20-foot carved white oak 
pews that flank the outside of the pillars. 
Low, broad steps lead to an altar cum pul 
pit against the rear wall. The flanking 
walls on either side are covered with huge 
tapestries that hang from heavy hooks 
near the ceiling. Three more 20-foot pews 
are angled beneath each tapestry. Glowing 
stones set in the ceiling cast a pale light 


26 





MAP 2: TEMPLE OF THE FROG - GROUND FLOOR 


Scale: 1 Square = 5 Feet 


(r)1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. 






























THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 


over the room. Stronger beams of warm 
light from a cupola high above the altar 
highlight elements of the tapestries and 
the altar itself. 

The tapestry to the right of the altar 
shows a land sinking into the ocean. Terri 
fied humans, elves, dwarves, and half- 
lings cling to the illusory safety of a few 
islands of dry ground not yet inundated by 
the all-consuming waves of an angry sea. 
The turrets of Blackmoor castle can be 
seen slipping beneath the waves in the 
background. 

The tapestry to the left of the altar 
shows a pastoral scene in which yeoman 
farmers work their bountiful land, and 
skilled craftsmen ply their trade under the 
brilliant sun of a new day. The frog 
shaped oudinc of the Temple of the Frog 
can be scene in the background. All of the 
figures except for a few domestic animals 
are froglike humanoids. 


This large hall is the site of the temple's regular 
religious services. Each day at sunrise and sun 
set. all Froggies who aren't on duty gather here 
for a service, presided over from atop the altar 
by an inner circle monk, who wears a safron 
robe and a green stole for the occasion. The 
keepers sit in the pews to the altar's left The in 
ner cirdc monks sit in the pews to its right. All 
outer cirdc monks, acolytes, and lay brothers 
who aren't in the choir sit in the pews flanking 
the main pillars. The back of each pew contains 
a rack holding 12 books of devouons that con 
tain all hymns, prayers, and other liturgical in 
formation used. 

Before the service, the keepers and inner cir 
dc monks gather near the front door. The serv 
ice begins with a processional in which the 
officiating priest and those sitting in the pews 
flanking the altar take their places. After a 
hymn to "the Frog," the Froggies recite the 
Vestfold Creed: 


I do humbly and sincerely maintain that the 
reign of man is ended, and that the reign of 
the frog is upon us. For man. in his sin, will 
destroy his world, and the frogs will inherit 
the earth. Hale of heart, dean of limb, the 
pop-eyed, web-footed god will come in sol 
emn. stkky-tongucd majesty to cleanse the 
land and build the eternal pond. Woe unto 
those who deny him. Glory to those who 
serve him. For his froggy fury will dash unto 
the uttermost depths those that do oppose 
him, and his ineffable slime-birthed wisdom 
will know his own. 


Following this affirmation of faith, the Froggies 
sing another hymn, and the priest delivers a 
brief homily, followed by a rote prayer to the 
"spirit of die Frog." After that, if it is sundown, 
the service ends with a final hymn, during 
which the priest leads a recessional. 

During sunrise services, the final hymn is 
proceeded by the ritual sacrifice. The mouth of 
the frog-shaped altar opens while the lay broth 
ers drag forward from the guard room (2-9) one 
or more captives who are to be "offered up to 
die Frog." The victims arc clothed in breaka 
way safron robes, and are gagged and bound 
with silken cords. When they reach the altar, the 
robes arc tom away, and they- are cast into the 
mouth of die frog-altar. They then fall 60 feet 
down a spiral slide into the lower dungeon's kill 
ing pond (9-59), where they are devoured by 
the waiting killer frogs. This process is called 
"joining the Frog," and it is deemed a great 
honor to be selected as a sacrifice. Though all 
members of the order make a ritual pledge of 
their willingness to "join the Frog" when they 
join the order or advance in rank, in practice 
the high priest (Saint Stephen) only selects pris 
oners for this distinction. 

During services, the candles are lit, and die 
glow panels are dimmed. Changes in the color 
and intensity of the accent lights create dra 
matic effects. For example, when the lrog- 
altar's mouth opens, a nimbus of blue light 
bathes the officiating priest who stands in the 
pulpit built into the head of the frog-altar while 
another beam of light imparts an eerie green 
glow to the mouth of the frog-altar. All of this 
trickery is coordinated from the command cen 
ter (2-15). 

Except during the hour before and after a 
service, the big bronze doors opening onto this 
hall from outside are sealed. When diey arc 
open, four of the six guards from the guard- 
room (2-9) guard the doorway to prevent unau 
thorized persons from entering the temple. 
Only Froggies and guests of the saints are au 
thorized to enter the temple when the doors are 
open. During the day. when the doors are closed 
and services are not in progress, Sexton Horis 
Tisa and five acolytes are hard at work cleaning 
the nave. 

Acolytes (5): AC 9; HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 120' 

(40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dub); Save C1; ML 10; 

AL C; XP 10 each. 

In combat, the acolytes use their cleaning im 
plements as makeshift dubs. See 2-6 for l isa's 
attributes. 


2. Altar Machinery 


A short hall leads to a dusty ramp that rises 
into the darkness and slants off to tile right 
before debouching into an irregularly 
shaped space crammed to its 40-foot ceiling 
with an cumbersome array of brass and steel 
gears. 


The machinery opens the frog-altar's mouth. A 
small motor powered by the power plant in (5- 
54) and controlled by the computer in (5-53) op 
erates the mechanism, but a brass control wheel 
in this space can be used to manually override 
the powered system. 

The space's floor is raised about 10 feet above 
the levd of the nave (2-1) and five feet above the 
lcvd of the dais on which the altar stands. An 
cyc-lcve! peephole lets a viewer see what is go 
ing on in the nave. The space contains no glow 
panels, but there arc candles in the wall sconces 

3. The Monks' Stair 

This flight of limestone stairs connects the tem 
ple's main store room (2-25) with the upper 
dungeon's priest hole (8-52). 

4. Vault 


At the foot of the narrow stairwell is a short, 
dusty passage ending in a brass door locked 
with a dead bolt. 


Behind the door is a cabinet where the order 
stores valuable objects used in rare special serv 
ices. Though the lock appears to be a simple 
dead bolt, il is actually a trap. If the handle of 
the bolt is not turned to the right before the bolt 
is pulled, then a cloud of poison gas is released 
into the room from tiny holes in the ceiling just 
as the doors are opened. All characters in the 
room must immediately Save vs. Poison or take 
5-20 points of damage. 


The door conceals an alcove with five brass 
shelves. The top shelf holds an emerald- 
encrusted green jade statue of a frog squat 
ting on a lily pad and holding a struggling 
human in its mouth. The next shelf down 
holds a jade box. The other shelves hold 
stacks of vestments in various patterns and 
colors 


The head-sized frog statue, an heirloom that 
once adorned the Froggies' abandoned temple 
in Vestlbld, is worth 11,000 gold pieces. Inside 
the hollow statue, is a tray of eight 


28 







THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 


({lass vials, each containing one dose of a spe 
cial potion. The consequence of some forgot 
ten experiment that the order been unable to 
duplicate, this potion instantly turns the user 
into an entity similar to the frog folk. The 
user does not lose any of his existing charac 
teristics, but his skin becomes green and mot 
tled . he develops gills and webbed hands and 
feet, his legs become longer and stronger, his 
eyes bulge out, his nose retracts, and his 
tongue becomes long and sticky. As a result of 
this singular transformation, he gains the 
abilities to swim, breathe under water, and 
bite and kick for damage as one of the frog 
folk. His skin thickens and toughens so that 
he is AC 6 when he is unarmored or wearing 
leather armor. His class, level, hit dice, sav 
ing throws, and alignment don't change. The 
effects of the potion last for eight hours. 

The jade box is unlocked. Inside, resting 
on a green velvet pillow, is a jade ring. This 
unique i tem is a ring of frog calling Once per 
day. the wearer can use it to summon a frog 
swarm that has a 30-foot radius and moves 20 
feet per round as directed by the wearer. The 
wearer must be within 480 feet of the swarm 
in order to direct it. The hopping, leaping, 
biting frogs obscure vision and drive off crea 
tures of less than 3 Hit Dice (no saving 
throw). The swarm stays for one entire day or 
until the wearer decides to let it disperse. It 
can only be used if there are swamps nearby, 
and the frog swarm has a means of reaching 
the user. 

The doth-of-gold vestments stored in the 
cabinet arc worth 2,000 gold pieces. 

There arc no glow panels in this area, but 
there are candles in the wall sconces. 

5. Sexton's Quarters 


The walls of this 10-foot square room are 
paneled in a golden pine. A woven grass 
mat covers the floor. There is a white oak 
bed against the cast wall and a double- 
doored white oak wardrobe in a five-foot 
square alcove next to the entrance in the 
north wall. Beside the bed is a white oak 
reading table piled high with scrolls Next 
to the table, in the south wall, is a door. 


These are the quarters of Sexton Horis Tisa. 
This short, wiry, balding inner circle monk 
supervises of routine temple maintenance. 
He is in Frog Town (usually at Ratty Tom's- 
1-28) between sunset service and midnight 
He is in this room between midnight and 
dawn. He is in the nave (2-1) at all other 
times. If an alarm sound or Tisa becomes 
aware of a disturbance, his first thought is to 


make sure that the front door to the temple is 
scaled and guarded by the soldiers in the 
guard room (2-9). 

Horis Tisa: AC 7 (leather armor); HD 4; hp 
20, MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 6-36 (hand 
blaster); Save C4; ML 12; AL C; XP 75. 
The sexton knows the cleric spells bless, 
detect evil, and protection from evil. His 
purse holds 20 gold pieces. 

The scrolls are theological works. The door in 
the south wall leads to the west door machin 
ery (2-8). 

6. Main Slop Room 


The floor, walls, and ceiling of this 5-foot 
by 10-foot room are covered with one-foot 
square slabs of green-vetned black slate. 
Built into the south wall is a waist-high, 
pine cabinet topped with the same type of 
slate as that covering the walls. Recessed 
in its top is a white porcelain basin with 
brass fittings. Hanging from brass hooks 
in the east wall are assorted cleaning im 
plements. Beneath them is a box of car 
penter's tools. 

The basin is a sink. Inside the unlocked cabi 
net are several stoneware crocks of lye and 
two oak buckets. 

7. Ground Floor Latrine 


The floor, ceiling, and walls of this 5-foot 
by 10-foot room are covered with one-inch 
square green and yellow tiles. There is a 
white porcelain basin with brass fittings 
against the south wall. The basin is half- 
filled with water. A small, waist-high, 
slate-topped, white oak cabinet is built 
into the east wall. Recessed in its green- 
veined, black slate top is yet another white 
porcelain basin with different brass fit 
tings. 

The first "basin" is a flush toilet. The second 
is a sink. Inside the cabinet, is a woven basket 
full of sheets of thin paper. 

8. West Door Machinery 

This space contains machinery that opens 
and closes the western valve of the temple's 
massive front door. A small motor powered 
by the power plant (5-54) and controlled from 
by the computer (5-53) operates the mecha 
nism. The big brass control wheel opposite 
the door can be used to manually override the 
power system. The room has neither glow 
panels nor wall sconces. 


9. Guard Room 


The cast wall of this irregularly shaped 15- 
foot square room is a narrow, 15-foot long 
corridor. Ceiling-high oak shelves set into 
the first ten feet of the north wall hold stacks 
of thin, safron-colored cotton robes and sev 
eral coils of silken cord. A scarred, circular 
oak table and six equally beat-up oak chairs 
take up the southwest comer. There are four 
doors in the room's south wall. 


The door to this room is always open, but it 
can be entered only by saints, inner circle 
monks, outer circle monks, and six armed lay 
brothers who stand guard over both the tem 
ple doors and the prisoners in the cells of 
honor (2-11). 

Guards (6): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 4; hp 20 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 8-48 
(heavy blaster) or 1-8 (sword); Save F4; 
ML 10; AL C; XP 75 each. 

During services, the guards wear safron 
robes over their armor. The robes in the 
shelves set in the north wall are the breaka 
way robes worn by both guards and victims 
during services. The cord is used to bind the 
victims. 

10. East Door Machinery 

This space is crammed with machinery that 
opens and doses the eastern valve of the tem 
ple's massive front door, and is in all ways 
identical to the room containing the west 
door machinery (2-8). 

11. Cells of Honor 

Eadi of these bare, unlighted five-foot square 
cells is closed by a stout oak door containing a 
small eye-level peephole. Each door is barred 
from the outside. Each cell is furnished only 
with an oak bucket. At any given time, there is 
one naked prisoner per cell awaiting his turn to 
"join the Frog." When it is the victim's turn, the 
guards dress him in a safron robe, bind and gag 
him, and march him to the altar. Almost invari 
ably, these poor wretches are teenage peasant 
boys and girls kidnapped by the order's slavers 
for just this purpose . 

Prisoners (3): AC 9; HD 1; hp 5 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 (fist); Save as nor 
mal man; ML 4; AL N; XP 5 each- 

12. Hall of Saints 

This hallway is hung with portraits of former 
high priests. The door in the south wall opens 
onto a flight of stairs that go up to the chang 
ing room (3-31). 


29 








THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 


13. Hall of Trust 

The stairs in this hall go down to the upper 
dungeon's practice hall (8-53). 

14. Organ Space 


This 15-foot square room is crammed 
with the huge metal and wood organ 
pipes. A small open spare before the door 
ends in a bench and keyboard. 

Ciant flues above the organ distribute their 
sound throughout the nave. 

Choir Master Pochcp Bose is the organist. 
Tall and gaunt, his hideously scarred face makes 
him shun human company and seek the solace 
of his organ. He is in this room constantly ex 
cept between midnight and dawn, when he is 
sleeping in the choir master's quarters (3-30). 
Any disturbance in the command center (2-15) 
immediately draws Bose into that room. Bose's 
conditioning is incomplete, and he will betray 
the order in order to save himself (and betray 
those he helps m order to get back into the or 
der's good graces). 

Pochcp Bose: AC 9; HD 4; hp 12; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 6-36 (hand blaster); Save 
C4; ML 12; AL C; XP 75. Bose is an in 
ner circle monk and knows the cleric spells 
detect magic, protection from evil, and re 
sist fire. 

15. Command Center 


The alcove in this 10-foot by 30-foot 
room's east wall holds a metal cabinet 
whose face is dotted with what appear to 
be jewels Similar, smaller cabinets rest on 
long metal tables against the north and 
south walls. 


This command center controls light and 
sound during religious services. Monitors in 
the smaller cabinets on the tables can be used 
to communicate with the computer and to 
view all areas where there are functioning 
video pickups. The tall cabinet is an auxiliary 
power plant, sheathed in collapsium. It can 
sustain up to 24 points of damage before it 
shuts down, but can be harmed only by 
magic or magic weapons. Power packs for 
both blasters and batde armor can be re 
charged by plugging them into a small slot in 
the face of the plant. If both the power plant 
(5-54) and this auxiliary shut down, then all 
alien devices installed in the temple except for 
the glow panels immediately shut down. An 
attendant is always present. 


Attendant: AC 0 (batde armor); HD 4; hp 
16; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 6-36 (hand 
blaster); Save C4; ML 12; AL C; XP 75. 
This inner circle monk knows the cleric 
spells hold person, detect evil, and protec 
tion from evil. 

16. Robing Room 


The floor of this 10-foo( by 25-foot room is 
covered with a white lamb's wool carpet. 
Its east, west, and south walls are lined 
with ceiling-high glass-doored oak cabi 
nets whose shelves are piled high with 
robes of various sorts. The oak-paneled 
north wall is fitted with half a dozen brass 
clothes hooks. 


The cabinets contain dozens of samples of 
each color and style of robe, tunic, cloak, and 
cicnrurc worn by the order's members, in 
cluding saint's robes and those robes worn by 
the officiating priest during services. Turning 
the middle hook in the north wall clockwise 
opens a secret door leading to the altar ma 
chinery (2-2). 

17. Outer Sanctum 


The floor of this 25-foot square room is 
covered by a white lambs' wool carpel. 
Tapestries cover the north arid south 
walls. Facing each tapestry is a pair of 20- 
foot white oak pews, intricately carved 
with the temple's standard frog motif. 
There are doors in the east and west walls. 


This meditation chamber is empty at night, 
but during the day, there are five acolytes 
present, saying private devotions from the six 
books of devotions in each pew. The tapes 
tries are smaller versions of those in the nave 
(2-1). 

Acolytes (5): AC 9; HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 (fist); Save Cl; 
ML 10; AL C; XP 10 each. 

18. Inner Sanctum 


The floor of this 25-foot square room is 
covered with a green wool carpet. Its 
north and south walls arc lined with 
ceiling-high golden oak shelves crammed 
with leather-bound books. A limestone 
fireplace carved in the temple's frog motif 
juts from the center of the east wall. A tall 
oak cabinet occupies the southeast comer. 
There are six small, round oak tables and 
12 green velvet armchairs scattered about 


in intimate two or three-person group 
ings. Atop each tabic is a green jade vase 
of cut yellow swamp lilies. The north and 
west walls contain doors. 


Use of this room is restricted to saints, inner cir 
cle monks, and their guests. The door in the 
west wall leads to the outer sanctum (2-17). 
That m the north wall leads to the sanctum 
sanctorum (2-19). The cabinet is stocked with 
24 bottles of wine and 50 crystal goblets (worth 
500 gold pieces). The books are light reading. 

19. Sanctum Sanctorum 


The walls and ceiling of this 25-foot by 35- 
foot room are paneled in golden oak. A 
gray wool carpet covers the floor. The en 
tire cast wall is lined with oak book cases. 
Hundreds of leatherbound books are visi 
ble through the leaded glass of their doors. 
Against the west wall is a gray metal cabi 
net, next to which is an oak sidcchair 
There are doors in each of the other walls. 
But dominating the room is a huge carved 
oak desk. Behind the desk is a leather arm 
chair. In front of it are three more chairs 
upholstered in nubby gray silk. 

The metal cabinet holds a computer terminal 
and opens only to a saint's ring. The desk 
holds writing materials and a hand blaster. 

The door in the north wall leads to the sec 
retariat (2-20). That in the west wall leads to 
the nave (2-1). That in the south wall leads to 
the inner sanctum (2-18). 

Saint Stephen is in this office during the 
day. He enters any adjacent room in which 
there is a disturbance in 1 -4 rounds. 

Saint Stephen: AC 0 (batde armor); HD 10; 
hp 50; MV 120' (40'); #AT I; D 3-36 
(hand blaster); Save F10; ML 9; AL N; 
XP 900. In addition to his temple ring, 
Stephen wears a ring of spell turning with 
12 uses and a helm of teleportation. 

Stephen is not conditioned to be loyal to the 
order, but his battle conditioning give him the 
same immunity to spells as other members of 
the order. He will fight to save the order that 
he has built, but, if the battle is dearly lost, he 
teleports to one of the river boats anchored in 
The Haven (1 -23) and uses the boat to escape 
Frog Island, returning later to rebuild. 

20. Secretariat 


A gray wool carpet covers the floor of this 
15-foot by 25-foot room. Its walls and ceil- 


30 









THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 


ing arc paneled in dark oak. Open shelves 
built into the east wall contain 40 two-foot 
square ledgers bound in green leather. 
There is a desk in the southwest corner, 
behind which is a straight-backed oak 
chair. There are four similar chairs 
against the north wall. Opposite them is 
an oak cabinet. There are doors in the 
west and south walls. 


Thc red ledger books contain the order's fi 
nancial records, including lists of prisoners 
(by name) and their disposition. Among the 
entries in the most recent book is one for 
"Aleford, Rissa" together with the notation 
"special treatment." The oak cabinet holds 
writing materials. The desk contains several 
spools of green ribbon, a brass seal in the like 
ness of a frog devouring a struggling human, 
and a wooden box holding 30 sticks of yellow 
sealing wax. The seal is that of the order, and 
is used on all official communications. 

The door in the south wall leads to the 
sanctum sanctorum (2-19). That in the west 
wall leads to die nave (2-1). 

This is the order's secretariat. Here reside its 
current operating records, and from here come 
the written orders that cause things to get done. 
The secretariat is run by Temple Secretary 
Hugh Karf, assisted by four acolytes who act as 
runners. Karf and his runners arc in this room 
during the day (except during religious serv 
ices). They enter any adjacent room in which 
there is a disturbance in 1-4 rounds. 

Hugh Karf AC 9; HD 6; hp 24; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 6-36 (hand blaster); Save 
C6; ML 12; ALC; XP 275. Karf is an in 
ner circle monk and knows the cleric spells 
detect evil, protection from evil, hold per 
son. resist fire, and cure disease. 

Acolytes (4); AC 9; HD I; hp 6 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (mace); Save Cl; 
ML 10: ALC; XP 10 each. 

21. Guardian's Office 


The walls and ceiling of this 25-foot 
square room are paneled in white oak. A 
fine, light blue wool carpet covers the 
floor. The north wall is lined with oak 
book cases. Hundreds of leatherbound 
books are visible through the leaded glass 
of their doors. Against the cast wall is a 
gray metal cabinet. There is a much 
smaller oak cabinet opposite it against the 
west wall. Next to the oak cabinet is a big 
white oak desk, behind which is a blue 


leather armchair. Two similar chairs are 
set in front of the desk. 


The metal cabinet opens only to a saint's 
ring. Inside is a computer terminal. The oak 
cabinet is an emergency armory with four 
heavy blasters, two hand blasters, six spare 
power packs, six swords, and four maces. 
There is also a locked steel box in the oak cab 
inet holding two inner circle and six outer cir 
cle rings. 

Lynn Raupp is present during the day. 
Wherever Raupp is, there too is her pet dis 
placer beast. Schroedinger. Raupp and her 
pet enter the nave 1-4 rounds after any dis 
turbance starts in that area. They always at 
tack intruders enthusiastically. Raupp breaks 
off combat only if the fight is clearly lost, in 
which case, she retreats to a convenient area 
to gather new forces and then returns to the 
attack Raupp's pet is programmed to be in 
tensely loyal to Raupp. He will defend her to 
the death, and avenge her if she is killed. 

Lynn Raupp; AC 0 (battle armor); HD 11; 
hp 44; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 3-36 
(hand blaster); Save FI 1; ML 10; AL N; 
XP 1100. Raupp wears a scarab of protec 
tion with six uses. Like Saint Stephen, 
Raupp has undergone battle conditioning 
that make her immune to the same spells 
as other members of the order. 

Schroedinger. AC 4; HD 6*; hp 54; MV 150' 
(50'); #AT 2 tentacles; D 3-8/2-8; Save F6; 
ML 12; AL N; XP 500. 

22. Chancellory 


The walls and ceiling of this 25-foot 
square room are paneled in white oak. A 
fine, pale green wool carpet covers the 
floor. The south wall is lined with oak 
book cases. Hundreds of leather-bound 
books are visible through the leaded glass 
of their doors. Against the cast wall is a 
gray metal cabinet. There is a similar cab 
inet against the west wall. Next to the lat 
ter is a big white oak desk, behind which is 
a padded green leather armchair. TVvo 
similar chairs are set in front of the desk. 


The cabinet against the east wall contains a 
computer; it opens only to a saint's ring. The 
other cabinet hides a vault partially sunk into 
the floor. The vault is made of 1/16-inch col- 
lapsium, a superdense armor plating that is 
immune to damage from any weapons in 
Blackmoor (including alien blasters). It 
opens only to Mendel's or Saint Stephen's 


ring. Inside are eight large sacks and an eb 
ony box. One sack holds 500 copper pieces. 
One holds 600 silver pieces. Three others 
each hold 500 gold pieces. The remaining 
two each hold 600 platinum pieces. The inte 
rior of the ebony box contains a black velvet 
pillow in which arc cushioned 12 small emer 
alds worth 2,500 gold pieces each. 

Dygar Mendel is in this office during the 
day, except during religious services. Mendel 
dislikes fighting and avoids combat if at all 
possible. If cornered, he will fight back. Oth 
erwise, he attempts to run. 

Dvgar Mendel: AC 0 (battle armor); HD 2; 
hp 10; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 3-36 
(hand blaster); Save F2; ML 8; AL N; XP 
20 . 

23. Librarian's Quarters 


The floor of this 25-foot square room is 
covered with a black wool carpet. The 
west and south walls are lined with open 
bookcases containing leather-bound 
books and lacquered scroll cases. There is 
an oak cabinet against the north wall and 
a similar cabinet occupies the northeast 
comer. An oak bed dominates its south 
east comer. Between the bed and the cor 
ner cabinet, angled to face the door, is an 
oak desk with a carved oak armchair. 
There is a black velvet armchair in the 
southwest corner. 


Most of the books and scrolls in the shelves 
are of no interest, but there is a rare copy of 
Friar Hyckurn's shocking tale Dragons of De 
pravity, worth 1,000 gold pieces. 

The double-doored corner cabinet is 
locked and wizard-locked. Inside are two 
scrolls, a spell book, and an iron-bound oak 
chest. One scroll is a cursed scroll that turns 
the reader into a (very small) frog. The other 
is a magic user spell scroll containing the 
spells fly, conjure elemental, and lower water. 
The chest holds 800 gold pieces. 

These are the quarters of Vidor Strang 
Though Strang is an honorary inner circle 
monk and wears an inner circle ring, he is not 
a cleric, but a magic-user, and the spell book 
is his. He is also the temple librarian and ar 
chivist. He is always in this room, though he 
enters the library in 1 -4 rounds if there is a 
disturbance there. Strang believes that the 
keepers have become corrupt, and he would 
like to see them destroyed for the good of the 
order. Though he will fight to preserve the or 
der as a whole, there is a 10% chance that he 
will help intruders penetrate the dungeons by 


31 









THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 


showing them the secret door to the monks' 
stair (2-3). 

Vidor Strang: AC 9; HD 8; hp 32: MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); Save M8; 
ML 10; AL C; XP 650. Strang wears a 
ring of spell turning with 3 uses. He 
knows the magic-user spells protection 
from evil, read languages, read magic, in 
visibility, knock , wizard lock, dispel 
magic, fireball, polymorph others, and 
polymorph self. 

24. Library 


The walls of this 25-foot square room are 
lined with golden oak book cases, except 
where the north, east and south walls are 
each pierced by a door. The western half 
of the room contains six free-standing oak 
book cases. All are lightly packed with old 
leather-bound volumes and lacquered 
scroll cases. Three polished oak tables 
with flanking benches are distributed over 
the eastern half of the room. The cham 
ber's floor is covered by a worn green car 
pet. 


The volumes in this library are all theological 
in nature The door in the north wall leads to 
the main store room (2-25). That in the east 
wall leads to the nave (2-1). That tn the south 
wall leads to the librarian's quarters (2-23). 

There are always six acolytes present. Any 
disturbance in the nave draws them to that 
area in 1-4 rounds. 

Acolytes (6): AC 9; HD 1; hp 6 each: MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1 -6 (mace); Save C1; 
ML 10; AL C; XP 10 each. 

25. Main Store Room 


The cast, west, and south walls of this 25- 
foot by 15-foot storage area are lined with 
three-foot deep, ceiling-high shelves hold 
ing innumerable bundles, boxes, bins, 
crocks, and shrouded piles of material. 
Half a dozen pine crates are scattered 
about the floor. The shelves in the cast and 
south walls have gaps to accomodate a 
pair of doors. 

This general storage area contains wooden 
boxes and bins of torches, candles, wood 
scraps, nails, spikes, hooks, screws, pins, and 
the like. The crocks hold beeswax, lye, soap, 
and other cleaning supplies. The shrouded 
piles are disassembled furniture. The half- 
empty crates contain straw. 

Pressing a loose stone high in the middle of 


the north wall opens a secret door to the 
monks' stair (2-3). The door in the south wall 
goes to the library (2-24). That in the east 
wall goes to the robing room (2-16). 

SECOND FLOOR 

Most of this floor is an open balcony that 
overlooks the nave (2-1). Unless otherwise 
noted, all ceilings are 10 feet high. 

26. Choir Loft 

This open, 20-foot high U-shaped loft 
looks out over the temple nave some 30 
feet below. It is surrounded by a heavy 
railing, and four ramps give access to seat 
ing in a bank of 20-foot pews around the 
inside of the U. It's floor is covered by a 
white lambs' wool carpet. Thick white 
wool curtains embroidered with tiny frogs 
conceal the outer wall of the U-shaped 
loft. 


When services aren't in progress, the loft is 
empty and the curtains are gathered to reveal 
the doors on the outside of the U. During 
services, the curtains are closed, except in 
front of the booths (3-35, 3-36, 3-38, and 3- 
39), and the loft is occupied by 60 members of 
the temple choir (10 members of the outer cir 
cle, 30 acolytes, and 20 lay brothers). Press 
ing a certain stone in the northeast wall of the 
loft causes a section of the wall to swing in 
ward, revealing the steps leading down to the 
vault (2-4) 

27. Meeting Room 


This 10-foot by 30-foot room is paneled in 
dark oak that matches the 15-foot oak ta 
ble and flanking benches that are its cen 
tral feature. The east and west walls each 
contain a single door. 


28. Second Floor Latrine 


The Qoor, ceiling, and walls of this 10-foot 
square room are covered with one-inch 
square green and yellow tiles. There is a 
white porcelain basin with brass fittings in 
the room's southwest comer. It is half- 
filled with water. Built into the room's cast 
wall is a waist-high, slate-topped white 
oak cabinet. Recessed in the cabinet's 
green-veined black slate top is another ba 
sin with different brass fittings. There is a 
yellow stoneware pot of soap atop the cab 
inet. 


The first "basin" is a flush toilet. The second 
is a sink. The unlocked cabinet holds a basket 
of thin paper sheets. 

29. Second Floor Slop Room 


The floor, walls, and ceiling of this 15-foot 
square room arc covered with one-foot 
square slabs of green-veined black slate. 
Built into the west wall is a waist-high, 
slate-topped pine cabinet. Recessed in the 
slate top are three white porcelain basins 
with brass fittings. Hanging from brass 
hooks in the north wall are assorted clean 
ing implements. 


The basins are sinks. The unlocked cabinet 
holds brown stoneware crocks of soap, lye, 
and beeswax. Next to them is an oak bucket 
filled with cleaning rags. 

30. Choir Master's Quarters 


Dark oak paneling covers the walls and 
ceiling of this 15-foot by 25-foot room. A 
dark brown carpet covers the floor. 
Ceiling-high oak shelves in the north wall 
hold scores of thick black lacquer cases 
and a few books. The room's southwest 
comer contains a bed and night table. The 
northwest comer contains a brown leather 
armchair. There is a tall, double-doored 
oak wardrobe to the right of the door. 

Choir Master Pochep Bose occupies these 
quarters between midnight and dawn. See 2- 
14 for his attributes. 

The black lacquer cases hold sheet music. 
A leather sack in the wardrobe holds 300 gold 
pieces. 

31. Changing Room 


The walls and ceiling of th is 15-foot by 45- 
foot room are paneled in dark oak. There 
are two doors in the west wall and one 
door in the north wall. The room's north- 
cast and southwest comers each contain a 
flight of stairs. 


Before and after services, this room serves as 
a changing room for members of the choir; 
present at such times arc 30 acolytes, 20 lay 
brothers, and 10 outer circle members, all 
unarmed. At other times, it is empty. The 
southwest stairs go down to the hall of saints 
(2-12); the northeast stairs go up to the Hall 
ofTofl (4-40). 


32 











MAP 3: TEMPLE OF THE FROG - SECOND FLOOR 

Scale: 1 Square = 5 Feet 



°1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. 





































THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 


MAP 5: TEMPLE OF THE FROG - FOURTH FLOOR 


Scale: 1 Square = 5 Feet 



Saint Stephen is wont to observe his realm 
from this pleasant balcony. It is here too that 
he pursues one of his hobbies-watching the 
wild draco lizards that inhabit Frog Swamp. 
In order to draw the lizards near, Stephen has 
the temple staff regularly feed them. Slighdy 
concave stone projections built into the bal 
cony at A and B are filled with fresh meat be 
fore both daily services, drawing the winged 
predators to the temple. Once the meat is 
gone, the dracos tend to stay in the area, 
though they don't remain on the balcony. 
However, since they have come to associate 
the balcony with food, they do sometimes 
dive on those they see standing on it. There is 
a 25% chance that a party of intruders who 
enter this area are attacked by four draco liz 
ards. 


Draco Lizards (4): AC 5; HD 4 + 2; hp 22; 
MV 120' (80'), glide 150' (50'); #AT 1 
bite; D 1-10; Save F3; ML 7; AL N; XP 
125. 

The double doors in the north wall open only 
to Saint Stephen's ring or to a knock spell; 
they can't be forced. 

61. Saint Stephen's Room 


This 10-foot by 20-foot room is packed 
with arcane machines of metal and glass. 


These arc items of alien equipment salvaged 
from Stephen's lifeboat. Among them are 
two autoblastcrs, large wheeled, swivel- 
mounted blasters that do 8-48 points of dam 
age at a range of320 feet and that can be used 
to make three attacks per round. Unlike other 


blasters, these two don't have power packs. 
Instead they draw power from the power 
plant (or auxiliary). The cables connecting 
them to the power plant are just long enough 
so that they can be wheeled to the edge of the 
balcony to fire down at an attacking foe. 

The room is guarded by a cyborg named 
Norn who is programmed to kill anyone ex 
cept Stephen who enters the room. 

Nom; AC 0; HD 20; hp 8; MV 120' (80'); 
#AT 1 fist or weapon; D 3-30 or 4-48 
(heavy blaster); Save F10; ML 12; AL N; 
XP 2,000. Nom has infravision, and can 
breathe underwater. He can be damaged 
only by magic items or spells. He is im 
mune to sleep, charm, and hold spells. 


37 








THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 


40. Hall of Toil 

Heavy canvas curtains cover archways in the 
west and south walls of this hall. The archway 
in the west wall leads to the main equipment 
space (4-41). That in the south wall leads to a 
stairwell whose stairs go down to the robing 
room (3-31) and up to the Hall of Peace (5-44). 

41. Main Equipment Space 


A double row of pillars marches down the 
center of this huge room, whose walls arc 
lost in shadow Here and there, the light 
from the glowing stones in the ceiling reflects 
off some outlandish machine. Greasy cables 
slither along the floor in all directions. Haifa 
dozen large, boxy metal columns are cen 
tered near the room's north edge. 


This space is both a storage area for alien 
equipment being refurbished for use in the 
temple and the mam accessway for electrical 
repairs. The cables include electrical and 
communications lines. The metal columns 
are air shafts. All of the fireplaces, stoves, and 
air vents in the temple are connected to these 
oversized shafts. Secret doors in the shalts are 
triggered by twisting a metal protrusion. In 
side, the shafts are packed with a fibrous ma 
terial that acts like a filter. While it is possible 
to hide in the shafts, they can't be used to tra 
vel between floors since the shafts with which 
they connect arc too small for humans. 

42. Unfinished Latrine 


The 10-foot square room before you is 
bare, dusty, and obviously disused. 


43. Unfinished Slop Room 


The 10-foot square room before you is 
bare, dusty, and obviously disused. 


FOURTH FLOOR 

Guests and those who don't have appropriate 
business on the fourth floor are allowed there 
only under escort. Except in the upper loft, 
ceilings are 15 feet high. 

44. Hall of Peace 


This T-shaped hall is paneled in white 
oak. A gray and white wool carpet covers 
the floor. There seem to be doors or arch 
ways everywhere. 


The stairs at A and B go up to the priests' walk 
(6-60). There are two guards stationed beside 
the archway opposite the door to the fourth floor 
slop room (5-49). They have orders to detain 
unauthorized persons who enter this area. 

Guards (2): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 5; hp 25 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 8-48 
(heavy blaster) or 1-8 (sword); Save F5; 
ML 10; AL C; XP 175 each. 

Any disturbance in this hall draws the occu 
pants of rooms 5-50, 5-51, and 5-52 in 1-4 
seconds and causes the alarm to be sounded, 
if the computer is still working. 

45. Upper Loft 


This open, 40-foot high loft looks down on 
the temple nave 50 feet below. It is sur 
rounded by a heavy railing, and two ramps 
give access to seating in a bank of 20-foot 
pews set on steep risers. There is a large 
double-door at the back of the loft, and 
smaller doors are set in jogs in the cast and 
west walls. 


46-47. Stairs 

The west stairs go up to the west walkway (6- 
55). The cast stairs go up to the east walkway 
(6-56). 

48. Fourth Floor Bathroom 


The floor, ceiling, and walls of this 10-foot 
square room are covered with one-inch 
square black and gold tiles arranged in an 
abstract pattern. There is a curious glass 
booth containing gold fittings in the 
northwest comer. A white porcelain basin 
with gold fittings occupies the southwest 
comer. It is half-filled with water. Built 
into the cast wall is a waist-high, marble- 
topped golden oak cabinet. Recessed in 
the cabinet's black-veined gray marble 
top is another white porcelain basin with 
different gold fittings Atop the cabinet is 
a jade pot of scented soap. 


The glass booth is a shower. The basins arc a 
flush toilet and sink, respectively. The un 
locked cabinet holds a stack of towels and a 
woven basket full of sheets of thin paper. The 
jade pot is worth 100 gold pieces; the gold fit 
tings, 300. 

49. Fourth Floor Slop Room 


The floor, walls, and ceiling of this 10-foot 
square room are covered with onc-foot 


square slabs of gray-veined black slate. 
The east wall contains a waist-high, slate- 
topped pine cabinet. Recessed in its slate 
top is a white porcelain basin with brass 
fittings. 


The basin is a sink. Inside the unlocked cabi 
net is a brown stoneware crock of soap. Next 
to it is a copper bucket filled with cleaning 
rags. 

50. The Guardian's Quarters 


The stone walls of this spartan 10-foot by 
15-foot room are unadorned. There is a 
bed in the northeast comer and an oak 
wardrobe in the northwest comer. At the 
foot of the bed is a shallow 2-foot by 3-foot 
box filled with sand. 


These are Lynn Raupp's quarters. She and 
her pet are present between midnight and 
dawn. Sec 2-21 for their attributes. The sand 
box is Schroedinger's. 

51. The Chancellor's Quarters 


The oak paneling on the walls and ceiling 
of this 15-foot square room and the brown 
wool carpet covering die floor are the only 
signs of luxury. An oak bed occupies the 
northwest comer, and a brown cut velvet 
armchair occupies the northeast comer. 
There is an oak wardrobe against the 
south wall. 

Dvgar Mendel's occupies diese quarters from 
midnight to dawn. See 2-22 for his attributes. 

52. The High Priest's Quarters 

The walls and ceiling of this L-shaped 
room are paneled in white oak, and there 
is a white carpet on the floor. A white oak 
four-poster occupies the southeast comer. 
There is a wardrobe against the north 
wall, and a writing desk and chair in the 
northeast comer. 

Saint Stephen is in these quarters be 
tween midnight and dawn. See 2-20 for 
his attributes. 


In addition to its other contents, the ward 
robe holds an alien backpack containing 30 
iron rations, a full waterskin, a 50-fool rope, 
and a purse holding 50 gold pieces. Ever pre 
pared. Saint Stephen keeps these items ready 
against the day when he may have to make a 
fast getaway from the temple. 


35 














THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 


53. The Computer Room 


The walls, floor, and ceiling of this 25-foot 
by 45-foot room arc covered with two-foot 
smooth, gleaming white panels of an un 
known material. The entire ceiling glows 
with an intensely bright light. There are 
two iron beds, an oak desk, an oak chair, 
and an oak wardrobe against the north 
wall. Four open metal cabinets line the 
south wall. In front of each open cabinet is 
a white oak side chair. Centered against 
the west wall is a tall metal cabinet con 
taining a single blinking red light. 


The cabinets against the south wall arc termi 
nals attached to the computer set against the 
west wall. The unlocked desk contains a 
drawer full of strange tools and computer 
parts. The wardrobe contains a saint's robe, 
two inner circle robes, and a chest holding 
200 platinum pieces. 'Iemple Magus Willis 
Strom and his apprentice computerman oc 
cupy this room. 

Willis Strom: AC 0 (battle armor); HD 2; hp 
20; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 3-36 (hand 
blaster); Save F2; ML 7; AL N; XP 20. 

Apprentice Computerman. AC 0 (battle ar 
mor); HD 3; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 
1; D 6-36 (hand blaster); Save C3; ML 
12; ALC; XP 75. This individual is an in 
ner circle monk and knows the cleric spells 
detect evil and protection from evil. 

Computer: AC 0; HD 10; hp 40; MV' 0 (0); 
#AT 1 electric shock. D 8-48; Save F5; 
ML 12; AL N; XP 1,100. The computer 
is similar to a stationary golem. It can be 
damaged only be magic weapons or spells, 
and is immune to poison, paralysis, petri 
fication, and breath attacks and to sleep, 
charm, and hold spells To keep fools from 
tampering wiih it, Willis Strom has run a 
current through its insulated cabinet. 
Anyone but Saint Stephen. Willis Strom, 
or his apprentice computerman who 
touches the computer with his body or 
with a weapon or tool sustains 8-48 points 
of damage from electric shock. 

Anyone can use a terminal keyboard to talk 
to the computer The computer will answer 
questions posed by anyone using a terminal 
by displaying data on the screen, but it takes 
orders affecting temple operations only from 
the aliens, the apprentice computerman. and 
the attendant in the command center (2-15). 
It is possible for anyone who knows the one- 
word l.D. code of one of these individuals to 


communicate orders and information re 
quests to the computer using the intercom 
system. When communicated with in this 
fashion, the computer replies over the inter 
com. The aliens can also communicate using 
their implants. In order of preference, the 
computer obeys Saint Stephen, Willis, 
Raupp, Mendel, Kirk, the apprentice com 
puterman, and the attendant. 

Neither Strom nor his apprentice are fight 
ers by nature, but both will fight to the death 
to protect the computer. If intruders draw 
near the computer room, they barracade 
themselves inside instead of venturing out to 
join the fight. 

54. The Power Plant 


The walls, floor, and ceiling of this 25-foot 
by 45-foot room are covered with two-foot 
smooth, gleaming white panels of an un 
known material. The entire ceiling glows 
with an intensely bright light. There are 
two iron beds and a wardrobe against the 
south wall. An open metal cabinet and 
two other tall metal cabinets are set 
against the north wall. There is an oak 
side chair in front of the open cabinet. The 
room's entire southeast comer is occupied 
by a featureless, ceiling high, metal tank. 


The open cabinet is a computer terminal. 
The other cabinets arc monitoring devices. 
In addition to its other contents, the ward 
robe holds a suit of leather armor and three 
inner circle robes. 

The metal tank is a sealed power plant, 
sheathed in collapsium. It can sustain up to 
48 points of damage before it shuts down, but 
can be harmed only by magic. If both the 
power plant and its auxiliary in the command 
center (2-15) shut down, then all alien devices 
installed in the temple except for the glow 
panels immediately shut down. 

An apprentice powerman is always on duty 
in this room. 

Apprentice Powerman: AC 0 (battle armor); 
HD 3; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 6- 
36 (hand blaster); Save G3; ML 12; AL 
C; XP 75. This inner circle monk knows 
the cleric spells detect evil and protection 
from evil. 

FIFTH FLOOR 

The fifth floor other than the cast and west 
walkways (6-55 and 6-56) is restricted to ali 
ens and members with assigned tasks. The 
walkways have 10-foot ceilings. The other ar 
eas have 15-foot ceilings. 


55-56. Walkways 

The west walkway connects the west stairs (5- 
46) with the stairs leading to the observation 
deck (7-62). The east walkway connects the 
east stairs (5-47) with the stairs leading to the 
observation deck. 

57. Machine Shop 


This 50-foot by 60-foot room is crammed 
with strange machines that whir and buzz 
and click. Most of the room's southern 
third is occupied by a huge hexagonal 
tank, and there arc two thick metal shafts 
in the middle of the remaining floor space. 
There is a double door in the north wall. 
Stairs in alcoves in the east and west walls 
lead to two other doors. 


The machines include laser drill presses, 
milling machines, lathes, stampers, heat 
treatment units, and other, even more eso 
teric alien devices. During the day, there arc 
five acolytes hard at work in this area. At 
night, it is empty. 

Acolytes (4): AC 9; HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (club); Save Cl . 
ML 10; AL C: XP 10 each. In combat, 
the acolytes use metal tools as clubs. 

58. Cistern 

Catch basins in the temple roof keep this 15- 
foot deep cistern filled with water. The catch 
basins' outlets are only a few inches across 
(too small to be entered). Plastic pipe carries 
water from the cistern through the temple 
walls to all sinks, toilets, and showers. 

59. Main Lighting Space 

This area is a jungle of electrical cables. The 
accent lights used in religious services are se 
cured to ports cut in the floor and accessed via 
trapdoors. It is possible to drop through these 
trapdoors into the nave 90 feet below. 

60. The Priests' Walk 


This 20-foot by 50-foot balcony is the 
"mouth" of the frog-shaped temple. 
Overhead, an overhanging limestone 
ledge forms the upper pan of the mouth. 
The floor of the balcony is the lower half 
The surrounding by a three-foot high by 
four-foot thick limestone railing forms a 
prominant froggy lip. The north wall, 
forming the back of the mouth, contains a 
double door of bluish-green bronze. 


36 








THE TEMPLE OF THE FROG 


MAP 5: TEMPLE OF THE FROG - FOURTH FLOOR 


Scale: 1 Square = 5 Feet 



Saint Stephen is wont to observe his realm 
from this pleasant balcony. It is here too that 
he pursues one of his hobbies-watching the 
wild draco lizards that inhabit Frog Swamp. 
In order to draw the lizards near, Stephen has 
the temple staff regularly feed them. Slighdy 
concave stone projections built into the bal 
cony at A and B are filled with fresh meat be 
fore both daily services, drawing the winged 
predators to the temple. Once the meat is 
gone, the dracos tend to stay in the area, 
though they don't remain on the balcony. 
However, since they have come to associate 
the balcony with food, they do sometimes 
dive on those they see standing on it. There is 
a 25% chance that a party of intruders who 
enter this area are attacked by four draco liz 
ards. 


Draco Lizards (4): AC 5; HD 4 + 2; hp 22; 
MV 120' (80'), glide 150' (50'); #AT 1 
bite; D 1-10; Save F3; ML 7; AL N; XP 
125. 

The double doors in the north wall open only 
to Saint Stephen's ring or to a knock spell; 
they can't be forced. 

61. Saint Stephen's Room 


This 10-foot by 20-foot room is packed 
with arcane machines of metal and glass. 


These arc items of alien equipment salvaged 
from Stephen's lifeboat. Among them are 
two autoblastcrs, large wheeled, swivel- 
mounted blasters that do 8-48 points of dam 
age at a range of320 feet and that can be used 
to make three attacks per round. Unlike other 


blasters, these two don't have power packs. 
Instead they draw power from the power 
plant (or auxiliary). The cables connecting 
them to the power plant are just long enough 
so that they can be wheeled to the edge of the 
balcony to fire down at an attacking foe. 

The room is guarded by a cyborg named 
Norn who is programmed to kill anyone ex 
cept Stephen who enters the room. 

Nom; AC 0; HD 20; hp 8; MV 120' (80'); 
#AT 1 fist or weapon; D 3-30 or 4-48 
(heavy blaster); Save F10; ML 12; AL N; 
XP 2,000. Nom has infravision, and can 
breathe underwater. He can be damaged 
only by magic items or spells. He is im 
mune to sleep, charm, and hold spells. 


37 









SIXTH FLOOR 

This area is forbidden to everyone except ali 
ens and those who accompany them. All its 
rooms have 15-foot ceilings. 

62. Observation Deck 

This room appears to be a corridor. Stone 
bays at A and B arc actually view ports 
shielded from the elements by clear convex 
plastic sheets. From outside, these bulging 
plastic shields look like the pop eyes of a trog. 
The collapsium door between this area and 
the Mind of the Frog (7-63) opens only to one 
of the aliens' rings or to a knock spell. It can't 
be forced. 


63. Mind of the Frog 


This entire 10-foot by 20-loot room ap 
pears to be a single machine whose entire 
purpose is focused on something that 
looks like a chair built into the north wall. 


The room is, in fact, a single vast machine, a 
mind-control device that Stephen uses to con 
dition members of the order as described in 
the Heart of Darkness portion of this module. 


38 























MAP 6 







THE TEMPLE DUNGEON 


Beneath the temple compound is a large 
dungeon cut from the natural limestone be 
drock. Here, as in the aboveground temple, 
alien technology provides light, ventilation, 
plumbing, environmental control, security, 
and communications. Unless otherwise 
noted, assume that all lockers, wardrobes, 
and desks have the same contents as those in 
the aboveground temple. 

The dungeon can be entered only by saints 
and those other Froggies who have business 
there. Intruders risk detection and capture as 
a result of random encounters with the tem 
ple staff or members of the order. If the in 
truders aren't yet detected, roll ld6 every 
other turn to see if they have an encounter; if 
detected, roll ld6 every turn instead. An en 
counter occurs on a result of 1. Determine the 
nature of each encounter by rolling Id* if the 
intruders aren't yet detected and ld8 if they 
arc detected. 

1 Outer Circle Monk (1): AC 5 (chain- 
mail); HD 4; hp 20; MV 120' (40'); #AT 
1; D 6-36(hand blaster); Save C4; ML 
11; AL C; XP 75. The monk knows the 
cleric spells defect evil, protection from 
evil , and bless. 

2 Inner Circle Monk (1): AC 5 (chainmail); 
HD 5; hp 25; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 6- 
36 (hand blaster); Save C5; ML 12; AL 
C; XP 175. The monk knows the cleric 
spells detect evil, protection from evil, 
bless, and hold person. 

3 Keepers(2); AC 7 (leather armor); HD 6; 
hp 24 each, MV 120' (40'); # AT 1; D 1-6 
(mace); Save C6; ML 12; AL C; XP 275 
each. The monks know the cleric spells 
detect evil, protection from evil, bless, 
hold person, and cause disease. 

4 Soldiers (4): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 
8 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 
(sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL C; XP 20 
each. 

5 Soldiers (8): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 3; hp 
15 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(crossbow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F3; ML 
10; ALC; XP 35 each. 

6 Soldiers (12): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 3; 
hp 12 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(crossbow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F3; ML 
10; AL C; XP 35 each. 

7 Special; The intruders encounter eight 
soldiers per a 5 result. They are accompa 
nied by an outer circle monk and an inner 
circle monk, per 1 and 2 results. 


8 Special: The intruders encounter 12 sol 
diers per a 6 result. The soldiers arc ac 
companied by an outer circle monk and 
an inner circle monk, per 1 and 2 results. 
They are also accompanied by either 
Lorca (see 1-25) or by two keepers per a 3 
result. 

UPPER DUNGEON 

All ceilings and walls in the upper dungeon 
are faced with 500-pound limestone blocks. 
The floors are flagged with limestone. As in 
the aboveground temple, frog-shaped wall 
sconces containing white candles are set in 
the walls at 10-foot intervals. Here too, the 
candles are unused as light comes from the 
alien glow panels. Unless otherwise noted, all 
doors are cut from a single piece of oak and 
arc sealed electronically as in the above 
ground temple. Except as noted, ceilings are 
20 feet high. A disturbance in any room or 
hall on this level automatically draws the oc 
cupants of all adjacent rooms into the area 
within 1 -6 rounds. 

1. South Concourse 

The two stairwells in this corridor lead to the 
top of the Temple Gate (1-4A). 

2. Southwest Guard Room 

This 15-foot by 20-foot room has doors in 
the north and west walls. A large hooded 
cook stove stands against the south wall. 
Fifteen-foot oak trestle tables and benches 
flank a north-south center aisle. Above 
and slightly in front of the stove, metal 
cooking gear hangs from an iron rack sus 
pended by a chain from the ceiling. 


Pushing a loose stone in the east wall opens a 
secret door to the southwest passage (8-3). 
Two soldiers are present. 

Soldiers (2): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 8 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT I; D 1-8 
(sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL C; XP 20 
each. 

3. Southwest Passage 

Pulling a loose stone in the west wall opens a 
secret door to the southwest guard room (8- 
2). Stairs at the passage's other end go down 
to a double door that opens onto the lower 
dungeon's south tunnel (9-54). 

4. Southwest Stairwell 

Stairs wind upward counterclockwise to the 
top of the southwest tower (1-5) and down 
clockwise to the southwest barracks (9-63). 


5. Commander Rill's Quarters 


The southwest corner of this sparsely fur 
nished 10-foot by 30-foot room contains 
an oak bed with a small oak wardrobe at 
its foot. An oak desk and chair occupy the 
cast wall. Assorted furs are scattered over 
the floor. 


Commander R ill, who is in charge of the men 
quartered in the southwest barracks (9-63), is 
always present. 

Commander Rill: AC 5 (chainmail); HD 5; 
hp 25; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 6-36 
(hand blaster); Save C5; ML 12; AL C; 
XP 175. This short, fat inner circle monk 
knows the cleric spells detect evil, remove 
fear, bless, and hold person. 

In addition to their other contents, the ward 
robe holds a chainmail shirt and a mace + i, 
and a deep drawer in the desk contains a 
small sack holding 200 electrum pieces. 

6. Wine Cellar 


Two oak tuns stand against the south wall 
of this 20-foot square room. The north 
wall and part of the east and west walls 
hold racks of dusty bottles. 


One tun holds ale. The other contains a 
cheap, rough red wine. The bottles contain 
various types of red and white wine. 

7. Southeast Guard Room 


This 15-foot by 20-foot room has doors in 
the north and cast walls. A large hooded 
cook stove stands against the south wall. 
Fifteen-foot oak trestle tables and benches 
flank a north-south center aisle. Above 
and slightly in front of the stove, metal 
cooking gear hangs from an iron rack sus 
pended by a chain from the ceiling. 


Pushing a loose stone in the west wall opens a 
secret door to the southeast passage (8-8). 
Two soldiers are present. 

Soldiers (2): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 8 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); 
Save F2; ML 10; AL C; XP 20 each. 

8. Southeast Passage 

Pulling a loose stone in the cast wall opens a 
secret door to the southeast guard room (8-7). 
Stairs at the passage's other end go down to a 
double door that opens onto the lower 
dungeon's south tunnel (9-54). 


40 







THE TEMPLE DUNGEON 


9. Southeast Stairwell 

Stairs wind upward counterclockwise to the 
top of the southeast tower (1-6) and down 
clockwise to the southeast barracks (9-84). 

10. Commander Zik's Quarters 


The southeast comer of this sparsely fur 
nished 10-foot by 30-foot room contains 
an oak bed with a small oak wardrobe set 
at its foot. An oak desk and chair occupy 
the west wall. 


These are the quarters of Commander Zik, 
the inner circle monk who is in charge of the 
men quartered in the southeast barracks (9- 
84). He is never present, preferring to stay 
with his men. 

11. South Concourse Wash Room 


The floor, ceiling, and walls of this 20-foot 
square room arc covered with one-inch 
square green tiles. Four curtained stalls 
arc built into the south wall. White porce 
lain basins with brass fittings arc recessed 
into the green-veined black slate counter 
tops of waist-high, slate-topped, white oak 
cabinets in the east and west walls. 


The curtained stalls contain flush toilets. The 
basins are sinks. The unlocked cabinets each 
hold crocks of soap and lye and a woven bas 
ket full of sheets of thin paper. 

12. East Concourse 
This is an empty hallway. 

13. Rector's Day Room 


An oak desk faces the door in the north 
wall of this 10-foot by 20-foot room. Be 
hind the desk is a brown leather armchair. 
Two oak chairs face the desk. 


There is an acolyte behind the unlocked desk 
during the day. 

Acolyte (1): AC 9; HD 1; hp 6; MV 120' 
(40'): #AT 1; D 1-2 (fist); Save Cl; ML 
10; ALC; XP 10. 

14. Rector's Study 


The floor of this 20-foot by 40-foot room is 
covered by a green wool carpet. A large, 
intricately carved oak desk is angled to 
face the room from the northeast corner. 
Behind it is a green leather armchair. 


There are three oak side chairs in front of 
it. The north wall is lined with empty oak 
bookcases. The west wall contains a metal 
cabinet. 


The metal cabinet holds a computer termi 
nal; it opens only to a saint's ring. Rector 
Brand Kirk is always present except during 
services and between midnight and dawn. 

Brand Kirk: AC 0 (battle armor); HD 5; hp 
25; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 3-36 (hand 
blaster); Save F5; ML 10; AL N; XP 175. 
In addition to his temple ring, Kirk wears 
a ring of spell storing containing the 
magic-user spells charm monster, ice 
storm/wall, animate dead, teleport, disin 
tegrate, and stone to flesh *. 

Kirk is a skilled tighter, but, like all of the ali 
ens except Raupp, prefers to let the locals do 
most of the bleeding and dying. If involved in 
combat, he stays well back from the melee, 
using his blaster and his ring to back up his 
troops. If the fight is clearly lost, he retreats 
(using his magic ring to teleport to another lo 
cation in the temple, if possible). This docs 
not mean that Kirk is a coward, by any 
means. He is perfectly willing to risk his life 
to save his cushy position at the temple, and 
will organize a new assault on the intruders 
each time an attack fails. 

15. Rector's Bed Chamber 


The stone walls of this spartan 10-foot by 
20-foot room are unadorned. Its sole fur 
niture is an oak four-poster in the south 
west corner and a side chair against the 
north wall. 


Brand Kirk is present from midnight to 
dawn. 

16. Rector's Closet 

In addition to standard wardrobe contents, 
this closet holds an iron-bound oak chest con 
taining 100 platinum pieces, 100 electrum 
pieces, and 300 gold pieces. 

17. Secretary's Quarters 


An iron cot against the cast wall and a 
pine wardrobe against the north wall are 
the sole furnishings of this 10-foot by 20- 
foot room. An icon on the west wall shows 
a frog bathed in a heavenly light. 


Temple Secretary Hugh Karf (an inner circle 
monk) occupies these quarters from midnight 


to dawn. See 2-20 for his attributes. 

18-20. Monks' Quarters 

Anchored to the east wall of this 10-foot by 
20-foot room are two iron double-decker 
bunks. There is a tall pine wardrobe 
against the north wall. 


These quarters arc assigned to outer circle 
monks. Two of them arc present at night and 
one during the day. A disturbance in one of 
these cells causes the monks in the other two 
cells to arrive to investigate after 1-4 rounds. 

Outer Circle Monks (2): AC 7 (leather ar 
mor), HD 4; hp 16 each; MV 120' (40'); 
#AT 1; D 1-6 (mace); Save C4; ML 11; 
AL C; XP 75 each. The monks know the 
cleric spells detect evil, protection from 
evil, and bless. 

21-24. Junior Keepers' Quarters 


Set against the west wall of this 10-foot by 
20-foot room are two iron three-tiered 
bunks. There is an oak wardrobe against 
the south wall. 


These quarters are assigned to keepers, two 
of whom are present. A disturbance in one of 
these cells causes the monks in the other three 
cells and in cells 25-28 to arrive to investigate 
after 1-4 rounds. 

Keepers (2): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 6; hp 
24 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(mace); Save C6, ML 12; AL C; XP 275 
each. The monks know the cleric spells de 
tect evil, protection from evil, bless, hold 
person, and cause disease. 

25-28. Senior Keepers' Quarters 


Set against the west wall of this 10-foot by 
20 -foot room are two iron three-tiered 
bunks. There is an oak wardrobe against 
the north wall. 


These quarters are assigned to keepers, one 
of whom is present. A disturbance in one of 
these cells causes the monks in the other three 
cells and in cells 21-24 to arrive to investigate 
after 1-4 rounds. 

Keeper (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 7; hp 
28; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (mace); 
Save C7; ML 12; AL C; XP 450. The 
monk knows the cleric spells detect evil, 
protection from evil, remove fear, bless, 
hold person, striking, and cause disease. 


41 














THE TEMPLE DUNGEON 


29. Monk's Hall 

This is an empty hallway. The door in the 
west wall opens only to a saint's ring or a 
keeper's ring. Any suspicious noise in this 
hall (as of a door being forced) causes two 
monks per round from rooms 21-28 to enter 
the hall to investigate. 

30. Chief Keeper's Office 


The north wall of this L-shaped 10-foot by 
20-foot room is lined with shelves contain 
ing assorted scroll cases. There is a bat 
tered oak desk angled to face the room 
from the southeast corner. Behind it is a 
brown leather armchair. 'Iwo similar 
chairs face the desk. 


This is the chief keeper's office, but he is 
never present. The scroll cases contain reli 
gious scrolls. 

31. Northeast Washroom 


The floor, ceiling, and walls of this 10-foot 
by 20-foot room are covered with one-inch 
square yellow tiles. Two curtained stalls 
are built into the north wall. Two white 
porcelain basins with brass fittings are re 
cessed into the yellow-veined black slate 
counter top of a waist-high white oak cabi 
net in the east wall. 


The curtained stalls contain flush toilets. The 
basins are sinks. The unlocked cabinet con 
tains a stoneware pot of soap, a crock of lye, a 
long-handled brush, and a woven basket of 
thin paper sheets. 

32. Commander Mor's Quarters 


This 10-foot by 30-foot room contains an 
oak bed in the northwest corner, a small 
oak wardrobe against the west wall, and a 
brown leather armchair against the east 
wall. There is a pile of scrolls on the floor 
beside the bed. 


Commander Mor, who is in charge of the 
men quartered in the northeast barracks (9- 
77), occupies this room except during reli 
gious services and between sundown and 
midnight (when he is in Frog Town). 

Commander Mor: AC 3 (chainmail); HD 5; 
hp 20; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1, D 6-36 
(hand blaster); Save C5; ML 12; AL C; 
XP 175. This burley inner circle monk 
knows the cleric spells detect evil, remove 
fear, bless, and hold person. 


33. Northeast Guard Room 


This 15-foot by 20-foot room has doors in 
the south and east walls. There is a large 
hooded cook stove against the north wall 
Fifteen-foot oak trestle tables and benches 
flank a north-south center aisle. 


Pushing a loose stone in the west wall opens a 
secret door to the northeast passage (8-34). 
One soldier is present. 

Soldier (1): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 2; hp 8; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); 
Save F2; ML 10; AL C; XP 20. 

34. Northeast Passage 

Pulling a loose stone in the east wall opens a se 
cret door to the northeast guard room (8-33). 
Pulling a different stone in the west wall opens a 
secret door to the north passage (8-35). 

35. Northeast Stairwell 

Stairs wind upward counterclockwise to the 
top of the northeast tower (1-7) and down 
clockwise to the northeast barracks (9-77). 

36. North Passage 

Pressing a loose stone in the eastern wall of 
this passage opens a secret door to (the north 
east passage (8-34). Pressing a loose stone in 
the west wall opens a secret door to the north 
west passage (8-40). The doors in the south 
wall lead to the emergency stairwells (8-37 
and 8-38). 

37-38. Emergency Stairwells 

The eastern emergency stairwell (8-37) con 
nects the north passage (8-36) with the lower 
dungeon's east causeway (9-76). The western 
emergency stairwell (8-38) connects the north 
passage (8-36) with the lower dungeon's west 
causeway (9-75). 

39. Northwest Guard Room 


This 15-foot by 20-foot room has doors in 
the south and west walls. A large hooded 
cook stove stands against the north wall. 
Fifteen-foot oak tresde tables and benches 
flank a north-south center aisle. 

Pulling a loose stone in the east wall opens a 
secret door to the northwest passage (8-40). 

40. Northwest Passage 

Pulling a loose stone in the west wall opens a se 
cret door to the northwest guard room (8-33). 
P ullin g a different stone in the east wall opens a 
secret door to the north passage (8-35). 


41. Northwest Stairwell 

Stairs wind upward counterclockwise to the 
top of the northwest tower (1-8) and down 
clockwise to the northwest barracks (9-74). 

42. Commander Skilk's Quarters 


This 10-foot by 30-foot room contains an 
oak bed in the northeast comer and an oak 
wardrobe and an ironbound oak chest 
against the west wall. 


Commander Skilk, who is in charge of the 
soldiers quartered in the northwest barracks 
(9-74), occupies these quarters at night. See 
8-53 for his attributes. The locked chest holds 
a chainmail shirt and a large bag containing 
500 gold pieces. 

43. Northwest Washroom 

This washroom has exactly the same contents 
and decor as the northeast washroom (8-31), 
except that the cabinet and sink arc set in the 
west (not cast wall). It has the same two toilet 
stalls in the north wall, and the cabinet's con 
tents are the same. 

44. Monk's Common Room 


The walls of this 40-foot square room are 
lined with open shelves containing crock 
ery, cooking utensils, tins, bins, bags, and 
boxes. The northwest comer contains a 
hooded cook stove. There are two wheeled 
tables near the west wall. Three long ta 
bles flanked by benches take up the east 
ern part of the room. 


The tins, bins, bags, and boxes contain food 
and drink. There arc two acolytes and two 
outer circle monks present during the day 
and two outer circle monks present at night. 

Acolytes (2): AC 9; HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 (fist); Save Cl; 
ML 10; ALC; XP 10 each. 

Outer Circle Monks (2): AC 7 (leather ar 
mor); HD 4; hp 20 each; MV 120' (40'); 
#AT 1; D 2-7 (mace +1); Save C4; ML 
11; AL C; XP 75 each. The monks know 
the cleric spells detect evil, protection 
from evil, and bless. 

45. Main Larder 


The north and west walls of this 50-foot by 
60-foot room each contain a pair of iron- 


42 












THE TEMPLE DUNGEON 


bound oak doors Every other inch of wall 
space is taken up with sturdy oak shelves 
piled high with tins, bins, bags, and 
crocks. Five free-standing shelves in the 
southern half of the room are similarly 
laden. 


The containers hold food. 


46. Loading Bay 


This 10-foot by 20-foot room contains two 
5-foot square four-wheeled dollies. 


A gray button set in the south wall opens and 
closes a ceiling trapdoor connecting this load 
ing bay with the west dock (1-3). 

47. West Concourse 

Tucked away in a deadend of this hallway is a 
5-foot wide trapdoor through which food and 
other supplies can lie lowered to the level bc- 
tow. After a five-foot drop, the supplies slide 
down a gently sloping 250-foot ramp to the 
lower kitchen (9-79). Another deadend holds 
a secret door leading to the priest's hole (8- 
52); it opens when a candle sconce is rotated 
clockwise. 

48. Chief Keeper's Quarters 


The floor of this 20-foot by 30-foot room is 
covered with a green wool carpet. There is 
a walnut four-poster in the northeast cor 
ner, a green leather armchair in the north 
west comer, a walnut wardrobe against 
the west wall, and a big, carved walnut ta 
ble and chair against the east wall. 


Chief Keeper Scfton Bril occupies these quar 
ters between midnight and dawn. See 9-57 
for his attributes. In addition to its other con 
tents, the locked cabinet holds a small chest 
containing 1,200 gold pieces. 

49. Secret Archives 


This 20-foot by 30-foot room is lined with 
glassed-in shelves containing leather- 
bound books and green lacquered scroll 
cases. A 15-foot long carved oak table 
flanked by six carved oak chairs occupies 
the center of the room. 


The books are the secret record of the order's 
experiments and are filled with details on the 
creation of killer frogs. One scroll case holds a 
magic user spell scroll containing the spells 
mass morph, polymorph others, and poly 


morph self. Another case holds not scrolls, 
but a lacquered box tied shut with an intri 
cate knot. If the box is forced open or the knot 
is untied incorrectly, the box turns into a fire 
ball doing 6-36 points of damage to the char 
acter holding it and incinerating its contents. 
If the knot is untied correctly (e.g., if the lock 
is picked), the lid pops open to reveal a ring of 
frog control identical to those worn by the 
keepers. 

The wizard Lorca is present from sunrise 
to noon. See 1-25 for his attributes. 

50. Public Archives 

This room is identical in appearance to the 
hidden archives (8-50), but it contains the re 
cords that arc open to all of the order's mem 
bers. One case contains architectural 
drawings of the temple. If the players find 
this scroll case, show them the floor pians of 
the aboveground temple (not the dungeon). 

A shelving section in the room's northwest 
comer swings out to reveal a door on which is 
mounted a full-length mirror of life trapping. 
Inside the mirror are a vampire and eight 
dire wolves The vampire can't be seen in the 
mirror, but can be talked to (in which case, it 
claims to be a Blackmoorian warrior impris 
oned by the order for some imaginary crime). 
The mirror's occupants attack all present 
when it is broken. 

Vampire (1): AC 2; HD9*\hp72; MV 120' 
(40'), flying 180 (60); #AT 1 bite; D 6-36; 
Save F10; ML 11; AL N; XP 2000. 

Dire Wolves (8): AC 6; HD 4 + 1; hp 17 each; 
MV 150' (50'); #AT 1 bite; D 2-8; Save 
F2; ML 8; AL N; XP 125 each. 

The door opens onto the secret archives (8- 
49). The proper way to enter this room is to 
open the door with eyes closed so as to avoid 
becoming trapped in the mirror. 

51. Slide 

This area is occupied by the spiral stone slide 
connecting the mouth of the frog-altar in the 
nave (2-1) to the lower dungeon's killing 
pond (9-59). Periodic oilings make the slide's 
smooth stone surface too slick to get any pur 
chase. Barring magical means of rescue, 
those who start the descent from the altar in 
evitably wind up in the pond. 

52. Priest's Hole 


This triangular room has a curtained 
doorway in the southeast comer. An arch 
in the southwest comer partially conceals 
a flight of stairs climbing into darkness. 


The curtained doorway contains a double 
door that opens only to a saint's ring or inner 
circle ring. Opposite this door is a secret door 
in the north wall that opens when a candle 
sconce is rotated clockwise. The stairs con 
nect with the monks' stair (2-3). 

53. Practice Hall 


This cavernous room's 30-foot ceilings are 
supported by nine pairs of round pillars. 
The north-south aisle between those pil 
lars is apparendy an archery range since 
there are butts set against the north wall. 
Weapons racks flanking the outside of 
each row of pillars hold a hedge of swords, 
spears and polcarms of every description. 
There are six ironbound oak weapons 
chest against the west wall, and four more 
flanking the butts along the north wall. 
Twelve casks of arrows occupy the south 
west comer, while 20 casks of quarrels oc 
cupy the southeast comer. The double 
doors in the south wall are flanked by 
racks of bows and crossbows. The angled 
southwest and southeast walls arc covered 
by heavy canvas mats. The other walls are 
hung man-high with shields. The floor is 
ankle-deep in white sand. 


This combination armory and practice room 
is unoccupied from midnight to dawn and 
during services. At other times, Commander 
Skilk, an outer circle monk, and 16 soldiers 
are present. 

Commander Skilk: AC 4 (chainmail + ring 
of protection); HD 5; hp 30; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (mace) or 6-36 (hand 
blaster); SaveC5; ML 12; ALC; XP 175. 
This big, bearish, red-bcardcd inner cir 
cle tnonk knows the cleric spells detect 
evil, protection from evil, bless, and hold 
person As a reward for leading the slav 
ing party that ambushed Rjssa Aleford, 
Skilk was given her ring of protection * I, 
which he now wears. 

Outer Circle Monk (I): AC 5 (chainmail); 
HD 4; hp 20; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1 -6 
(mace) or 6-36(hand blaster); Save C4; 
ML 11; AL C; XP 75. The monk knows 
the cleric spells detect evil, protection 
from evil, and bless. 

Soldiers (16): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 3; hp 12 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1: D 1-6 (cross 
bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F3; ML 10; AL 
C. XP 35 each. 

The canvas curtains conceal double doors 


43 










DM BACKGROUND 


leading to the pncsts' hole (8-52) and the cast 
concourse (8-12). That to the priests' hole 
opens only to a saint's ring or inner circle 
ring. A shadowed archway in the cast wall 
half conceals a flight of stairs going up to the 
Hall of Trust (2-13). The chests along the 
west wall hold weighted, blunted weapons 
(treat as clubs). Those flanking the butts con 
tain daggers and swords. 

LOWER DUNGEON 

All ceilings, floors, and walls in the lower 
dungeon arc cut from the naked limestone 
bedrock. Rusty iron brackets set at 10-foot 
intervals hold unlit torches; illumination is 
provided by alien glow panels. Unless other 
wise noted, all doors are made from iron- 
bound oak planks and are electronically 
scaled as in the aboveground temple. Except 
as noted, ceilings are 15 feet high. 

There arc eight checkpoints on this level. 
Each consists of a 10-foot square area whose 
east and west boundaries are iron-barred 
gates that open only to a keeper's ring or 
saint's ring. Benches cut into the north and 
south walls accomodate two guards, one a 
soldier, the other a keeper. These men pass no 
one except a soldier or officer bound for his 
duty station, a keeper, or a saint. 

Keeper (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 7; hp 
28; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1. D 1-6 (mace); 
Save C7; ML 12; AL C; XP 450. The 
monk knows the cleric spells detect evil, 
protection from evil, remove fear, bless, 
bold person, striking, and cause disease. 

Soldier (1); AC 5 (chainmail); HD 5; hp 25; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); 
Save F5; ML 10; AL C; XP 175. 

The main feature of the lower dungeon is an 
underground lake 30 feet deep. Six water 
gates (G1-G6) divide the lake into separate 
ponds. Unless otherwise noted, the water 
gates are electronically locked at all times. 
The lake is surrounded by sheer, unclimbable 
rock walls. 

54. South Tunnel 

This is an empty hallway. 

55. Main Watch Room 

The iron-barred north and south walls of 
this 20-foot square room are scaled by 
sturdv gates. Four carved oak armchairs 
face the north wall. 


A soldier and a keeper occupy the armchairs. 


Keeper (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 7; hp 
28; MV 120* (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (mace); 
Save C7, ML 12; AL C; XP 450. The 
monk knows the cleric spells detect evil, 
protection from evil, remove fear, bless, 
hold person, striking, and cause disease. 

Soldier (1): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 5; hp 25; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); 
Save F5; ML 10; AL C; XP 175. 

56. Waiting Room 
This is an empty room. 

57. Laboratory 


Three multitiered tables near the south 
wall hold retorts, alembics, vials and 
beakers of arcane liquids. Four beds on 
pedestals stand against the north wall. 


In this laboratory, the keepers perform their 
vile experiments. Most of the equipment, in 
cluding the beds, is of alien design. 

The beds arc actually medical diagnostic 
and treatment units (medus). Straps built 
into them can be used to secure the patient 
(victim), and wheels in the pedestal allow 
them to be moved about. The computer sen 
sors in each medu accept voice commands 
and make verbal responses. Retracting 
probes in the sealed pedestal perform opera 
tions. If used for their intended purpose in 
stead of to create mutants, the medus have 
the same effect on their patients as if they had 
been subjected to the cleric spells cure serious 
wounds, neutralize poison, cure disease, and 
cure blindness. Only the aliens can operate 
them for their intended purpose. The keepers 
know how to use them only to create mu 
tants. 

There are four keepers present. Except 
from midnight to dawn and during services, 
Scfton Bril is also present. If there is a distur 
bance in rooms 9-54, 9-55, 9-56, 9-60, 9-61, 
9-62,9-64, 9-75, 9-76, 04 9-78, the occupants 
of this room become aware of it in 1 -6 rounds 
and immediately move toward the scene of 
the disturbance with the intention of quelling 
it. If there is a disturbance in 9-58, they enter 
that room in 1-2 rounds. 

Keepers (4): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 7; hp 
28 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 6-36 
(hand blaster); Save C7; ML 12; AL C; 
XP 450 each. Each monk knows the cleric 
spells detect evil, protection from evil, re 
move fear, bless, bold person, striking, 
and cause disease. 


Scfton Bril: AC 0 (battle armor); HD 10; hp 
60; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 6-36 (hand 
blaster); Save CIO; ML 12; AL C; XP 
900. Bril knows the cleric spells cure light 
wounds, detect evil, protection from evil, 
remove fear, bless, hold person, know 
alignment, resist fire, curse, cause dis 
ease, striking, animate dead, cause seri 
ous wounds, and dispel evil. He wears a 
medallion of ESP. 

If Bril and his companions find themselves 
dearly overmatched in combat, Bril retreats to 
a convenient checkpoint adjacent to the breed 
ing pond (9-60), leaving his companions to keep 
the enemy occupied. Bril then opens the check 
point, takes control of all killer frogs, and leads 
them against the intruders. 

58. Recovery Room 


This 20-foot by 40-foot room contains 10 
iron beds, six set against the west wall and 
four against the cast wall. 


Two partly mutated frog folk are strapped to 
beds against the east wall. 

Frog Folk (2); AC 8; HD I + 1; hp 5 each; 
MV 90' (30'), swimming 120' (40'); #AT 1 
bite or 1 kick; D 1-4/1-6; Save FI; ML 8, 
AL N; XP 15 each. 

59. Killing Pond 

The slide from the frog-altar in the nave (2-1) 
ends in this pond. Normally, it is empty, but 
during services, gates G4 and G3 arc open so 
that killer frogs can invade the pond and dev our 
the victims. There are 20-70 killer frogs present 
during services. They always attack unless re 
strained by a frog control ring or spell. 

Killer Frogs (70): AC 7; HD 1; hp 5 each; 
MV 90' (30'), swimming 120' (40'); #AT 1 
bite or 1 kick; D 1-8/1-6; Save F3; ML 11; 
ALC; XP 10 each. 

60. Breeding Pond 


This vast cavern contains an underground 
lake about 120-fect square. A double row 
of nine pillars supports its 30-foot ceiling. 
Here and there, small, sandy islands dot 
the lake. 


This lake is home to the order's killer frogs. 
At night, only 20 of the little monsters are 
present; the rest are out hunting in Frog 
Swamp. During services, 70 killer frogs arc 
present; the rest are in the killing pond (9- 
59). At other times, 140 are present. They al- 


44 








DM BACKGROUND 


ways attack unless restrained by a frog con 
trol ring or spell. 

Killer Frogs (140): AC 7; HD 1; hp 5 each; 
MV 90' (30'). swimming 120' (40'); #AT 1 
bite or 1 kick; D 1-8/1-6; Save F3; ML 11; 
ALC; XP 10 each. 

Gates G2 and G4 are open when the killer 
frogs arc hunting. 

61. Maturing Pond 

This pond is home to 30 partially mutated 
(and mostly listless and despirited) frog folk. 
They don't normally attack Froggies or in 
truders, but can be galvanized by a chance to 
strike effectively at the monks. 

Frog Folk f30): AC 8; HD 1 + I; hp 5 each; 
MV 90' (30'). swimming 120' (40'); #AT 1 
bite or 1 kick; D 1-4/1-6; Save FI; ML 8; 
AL N; XP 15 each 

62. Holding Pond 

This pond is holds 30 wholly mutated frog 
folk during the day and 6-24 frog folk at 
night. At night, gate G1 is open so that the 
frog folk can hunt. They take no action 
against Froggies, but attack intruders. 

Frog Folk (30): AC 8; HD 2 + 1; hp 10 each; 
MV 90' (30'), swimming 120' (40'); #AT 1 
bite or 1 kick; D 1-4/1-6; Save F2; ML 8; 
AL N; XP 25 each. 

63. Southwest Barracks 


The east and west walls of this 30-foot by 
40-foot room are lined with eight double- 
decker iron bunks. There is an oak locker 
at the foot of each bunk. Centered in the 
north wall is a door. Opposite it is a stair 
case. 


These quarters are assigned to 30 soldiers 
and two outer circle monks. The stairs go up 
to the Southwest Guard Room (8-2). Unlike 
the other doors on this level, this room's door 
opens to all rings except for acolyte rings. 
The lockers have the same contents as ward 
robes. There arc 10 soldiers and an outer cir 
cle monk present. 

Outer Circle Monk (1): AC 5 (chainmail); 
HD 4; hp 20; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1. D 6- 
36 (hand blaster); Save C4; ML 11; AL 
C; XP 75. The monk knows the cleric 
spells detect evil, protection from evil, and 
bless. 

Soldiers (10): AC 5 (chainmail); HD 3; hp 15 
each. MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (cross 
bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F3; ML 10; AL 


C; XP 35 each. 

64. West Tunnel 

This is an empty hallway. 

65. Keepers' Room 


An alcove in the east wall of this 20-foot 
square room holds a hooded cook stove. 
There is a table against the north wall and 
a door in the east wall. 


The east wall's door is unlocked. 

66. Keepers' Washroom 


There is a pile of stack of crates against the 
west wall of this 10-foot square room. 
Otherwise, it is empty. 

The crates contain green ceramic tiles. 

67. Holding Pen 

An small oak desk and chair arc set 
against the west wall of this 10-foot by 30- 
foot room. The north and south walls each 
contain three barred cells. 


All cells are locked. They open to keys on a 
ring in the unlocked desk. Sefton Bril's jailer, 
a bronze golem, occupies the room. He 
leaves only to pursue escaping prisoners. 

Bronze Golem (1): AC 0; HD 20* *; hp 140; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 fist + special; D 3- 
30 + special; Save F10; ML 12; AL. N; 
XP 4300. 

68-70. Holding Cells 

The floors of each of these cells arc piled with 
rotting straw, and there is an oak bucket in 
one comer. Each cell holds six prisoners con 
demned to "join the Frog." 

Prisoners (6): AC 9; HD 1; hp 5 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 (fist); Save as nor 
mal man; ML 4; AL N; XP 5 each. 

71. Special Treatment Cell 

This cell holds Rissa Aleford and her escort of 
five guards with whom she was captured. All 
are dressed in filthy rags and have been strip 
ped of all armor and weapons. They arc be 
ing held until Stephen can close a deal to sell 
them to Rissa's bitter enemies, the Afridhi. 
Any of the Fetch's agents who are captured 
arc also locked in this cell. 

Rissa Aleford: Lawful 11th level fighter; Str 
9; Lnt 12; Wis 15; Con 13; Dcx 14; Cha 
15; AC 9; hp 54. 


Rissa's Guardsmen (5): AC 9; HD 10; hp 39 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1 -2 (fist) or 
by weapon; Save FlO: ML 9; AL L; XP 
900 each. 

Except for being filthy dirty, Rissa and her 
guardsmen are in good condition and raring 
for a fight. After weeks of captivity, their one 
desire is to cut their way out of the vile tem 
ple, get back to civilization, and raise a com 
pany of troops to return to the City of the 
Frog and destroy it. Like her men, Rissa is 
keen on escaping quickly and cleanly, but she 
will acceed to the PCs' wishes in all matters 
save three: 

1. If she sees Commander Skilk, whom she 
recognizes as the man who butchered her sol 
diers, she will insist on killing him. 

2. If site secs the ring of protection + / that 
she was wearing when captured, she will try 
to reclaim it, since it is a family heriloom. If 
the ring is tn the possession of a PC, who 
refuses to part with it, she waits until the 
party escapes from the city, and then again 
demands the ring's return, taking it back by 
force, if necessary. 

3. She insists on taking along any and all 
Blackmoorians she encounters during the es 
cape, including the prisoners in cells 9-68, 9- 
69, and 9-70, the occupants of the cells of 
honor 2-11, and the prisoners in the slave pen 
(1-17A). She will not leave without rescuing 
them once she knows that they are captives. 

Rissa's guardsmen follow her orders in all 
matters. 

72. The Tank 

This cell is is used to hold members of the or 
der awaiting trial and punishment for infrac 
tions of temple law. It is identical to cells 
68-70, but it is empty. 

73. Prep Cell 

This cell is is used to hold prisoners slated for 
mutation into frog folk. It is identical to cells 
68-70, but it is empty. 

74. Northwest Barracks 


The east and west walls of this 30-foot by 
40-foot room are lined with eight double- 
decker iron bunks. There is an oak locker 
at the foot of each bunk. Centered in the 
south wall is a door. Opposite it is a stair 
case. 


The stairs go up to the Northwest Guard 
Room (8-39). Otherwise, the room is identi- 


45 









DM BACKGROUND 



caJ to the Southwest Guardroom (9-63). 
There arc 12 soldiers and an outer circle 
monk present. 

Outer Circle Monk (1) AC 5 (ehainmail); 
HD 4; hp 20; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 6- 
36 (hand blaster); Save C4; ML 11; AL 
C; XP 75. The monk knows the cleric 
spells detect evil, protection from evil, and 
bless 

Soldiers(12): AC 5 (ehainmail), HD 3; hp 15 
each; MV 120' (40'); *AT I; D 1-6 (cross 
bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F3; ML 10; AL 
C; XP 35 each. 

75-76. Causeways 

The west (9-75) and east (76) causeways arc 
cut from the limestone bedrock. A wall of 
ceiling-high iron bars on the side facing the 
breeding pond keeps the killer frogs from get 
ting at those using the causeway and the 
wooden bridge at its north end. 

77. Northeast Barracks 


The east and west walls of this 30-foot by 40- 
foot room are lined with eight double-decker 
iron bunks. There is an oak locker at the foot 
of each bunk. Centered in the south wall is a 
door. Opposite it is a staircase. 


The stairs go up to the Northeast Guard 
Room (8-33). Otherwise, the room is identi 
cal to the Southwest Guardroom (9-63). 
There arc 15 soldiers present. 

Soldiers (10): AC 5 (ehainmail); HD 3; hp 15 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1 -6 (cross 
bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save F3; ML 10; AL 
C; XP 35 each. 

78. East Tunnel 

This is an empty hallway. 

79. Lower Kitchen 


The walls of this 40-foot square room are 
lined with open shelves containing crock 
ery, cooking utensils, tins, bins, bags, and 
boxes. The northeast comer contains a 
hooded cook stove. There are two small, 
wheeled tables near the south wall, a large 
chopping block beside the stove, and two 
large tables flanked by benches in die cen 
ter of the floor. 


The tins, bins, bags, and boxes contain food 
and drink. The room is unoccupied. 


80. Maturing Pen 


An oak armchair against the cast wall is 
the only furnishing in this 10-foot by 30- 
foot room. The north wail contains three 
barred cells. 


All cells are locked. They open to the keys on 
a ring hanging from an iron hook in the door 
in the west wall. 

81-83. Maturing Cells 

The keepers use these presently empty cells to 
house humans who are in the advanced stages 
of being mutated into frog folk, but who can't 
yet survive in the maturing pond (9-61). The 
floor of each cell is piled with reeds, and there 
is an oak bucket in one comer. 

84. Southeast Barracks 

This room is identical to the southwest bar 
racks (8-63) except that the stairs go up to 
Southeast Guard Room (8-7). Commander 
Zik and eight soldiers are present. 

Commander Zik: AC 5 (ehainmail); HD 5; 
hp 25; MV 120' (40'); #AT I; D 6-36 
(hand blaster); Save C5; ML 12; AL C; 
XP 175. Zik knows the cleric spells detect 
evil, protection from evil, bless, and bold 
person. 

Soldiers (8): AC 5 (ehainmail); HD 3; hp 15 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (cross- 
bow)or l-8(sword); Save F3; ML 10; AL 
C; XP 35 each. 


46 









ENDING THE ADVENTURE 


ESCAPE FROM FROG ISLAND 

In order for the PCs to accomplish their main 
objective and rescue Rissa, they must pene 
trate the temple's lower dungeon. Once they 
do so, they will almost certainly be detected 
and pursued by large numbers of Froggies 
and their minions. In this event, once they fi 
nally achieve their objective, the PCs will 
probably want to escape the city with some 
dispatch. They can take two different escape 
routes: 

1. They can steal a canoe or riverboat and en 
ter Loch Gloomen. If they do so, they are met 
by the backup team's boat within 1-4 turns 
and taken aboard for an uneventful two day 
vovage up the Big Muddy to the town of 
South Pim. 

2. They can try to negotiate Frog Swamp. In 
this event, the monks release all surviving 
frog folk and killer frogs into the swamp to 
pursue them, and the party must check for 
random encounters per The City of the Frog 
part of this module. After 1-4 days spent 
splashing through the swamp pursued by 
killer frogs, frog folk, and other of Frog Is 
land's denizens, the PCs reach the shores of 
Loch Gloomen, and are picked up by the 
backup team's boat, which takes them to 
South Pint. 

Meanwhile, the PCs' actions set in motion 
certain events in the City of the Frog: 

1. If Weewak is not with them, he notices the 
uproar in the temple caused by their pres 
ence. Seeing this as his big chance, he sneaks 
into the temple and starts looking for aliens. 
At just the moment that the PCs are escaping 
from the temple, he activates his self-destruct 
device, partially wrecking the structure. 

2. When Weewak explodes (or when the PCs 
escape the temple if Weewak is prevented 
from self-destructing), fighting breaks out be 
tween the keepers and other Froggies and be 
tween Frog Tbwners and Froggies. As the 
PCs arc escaping from the City of the Frog, 
clouds of smoke begin to rise from its build 
ings, and there is general fighting. If the PCs 
left Rissa, any of her guardsmen, Ruda Ma- 
lefor, Vcslo Meridan, Alwyn Morland, or 
Miklos Haruska in Froggie hands when they 
escaped, then these individuals all escape on 
their own during the confusion and are 
picked up by the backup team's boat after the 
PCs are already on board. 

Awaiting the PCs at South Pim is an escort of 
30 royal guardsmen who accompany them on 
a two-week overland journey to Vestfold, 



where they again take ship for Blackmoor. Af 
ter two days afloat, they arrive in Blackmoor, 
where they are again put up at the Comeback 
Inn until The Fetch can meet with them and 
pay them off. 

Meanwhile, a military expedition 
mounted from the Barony of the Lakes pro 
ceeds to the City of the Frog, where it finds 
most of the occupants dead and the survivors 
scattered through Frog Swamp. If Rissa, any 
of her guardsmen, Ruda Malefor, Veslo 
Meridan. Alwyn Morland, or Miklos 
Haruska were killed in the City of the Frog, 
then the expedition locates their bodies, and 
they are raised from the dead by the Black- 
moorian cleric Garamond Bolitho(see DAI). 

The adventure need not end with the PCs' 
escape, of course. They could instead be 
killed or turned into Frog Folk (in which case, 
they forget their identities, develop a taste for 
flies, and disappear into Frog Swamp). In ei 
ther event, the backup team eventually rc- 
tums to Blackmoor, and leads a military 
expedition against the temple which accom 
plishes all of the goals the players failed to 
achieve. 


BACK TO THE FUTURE 


If the PCs survive their adventure. The Fetch 
pays them for their achievements as per the 
Beginning the Adventure part of this module. 
You then have two options: 

1. If you are playing this module as a stand 
alone adventure, then Ruda Malefor or Vcslo 
Meridan return the PCs to their own time. 
Their connection with Blackmoor is at an 
end. 


2. If you are playing this module as part of a 
continuing campaign in Blackmoor, then the 
PCs can either return to their own time as per 
option #1 or they can stay in Blackmoor as 
agents of The Fetch, in which capacity they 
can be assured of facing innumerable future 
dangers on behalf of the realm. 


47 






PREROLLED CHARACTERS 


The characters herein have been tailored es 
pecially for use in this module. They can be 
used by players instead of their normal char 
acters, or you can include one or more of 
them in the party as NPCs. 

Each prerollcd chsracicr starts the adven* 

NAME 

CLASS 

PREROLLED 
CHARACTER TABLE 

LEVEL STR INT WIS 

CON 

DEX 

CHA 

HP 

cure with a filled waterskin and a backpack 

Jareel Takis 

C 

11 

12 

11 

14 

16 

11 

7 

58 

containing 15 iron rations, a 50' rope, 1 large 

Thern Mor 

C 

in 

11 

12 

15 

13 

14 

13 

41 

sack, 1 small sack, a tinder box. a lantern, a 

Axel Kars 

F 

10 


9 

6 

17 

13 

11 

62 

flask of oil, a mirror, a holy symbol, and up to 

Purda Blue 

F 

11 

12 

12 

11 

13 

17 

9 

54 

80 cn of other equipment selected from the 

Newton Depoe 

M 

It 

in 

r. 

8 

10 

9 

10 

23 

Normal Equipment list found on page 19 of 

Alphidia Alkot 

M 

10 

7 

16 

13 

14 

12 

9 

31 

the D&D(r) Expert Booklet. In addition. 

Kokra the 'Ibuch 

T 

11 

11 

10 

9 

14 

14 

10 

30 

thieves start with a set of thieves' tools, and 

Scan Boldfinger 

f 

10 

13 

9 

11 

11 

16 

13 

18 

magic users have their spell books along. 

Gillam Khandum 

D 

in 

16 

7 

10 

16 

10 

'* 

60 

All prerolled fighters have a warhorse. All 

Ismelian Sotadis 

E 

in 

1 i 

14 

11 

11 

H 

11 

32 

other prerollcd characters have a riding 

Gelon Mclandil 

E 

10 

12 

¦t7 1 

9 

10 

14 

8 

27 

horse. Both warhorses and riding horses have 

Bob Silvcrheels 

H 

8 

12 

16 

12 

10 

14 

10 

24 


rheir own saddles, bridles and saddle bags. 
There are 500 gold pieces in each saddle bag. 
Each magic user has a mule for his spellbook. 

Prerollcd characters have the attributes 
listed on the Prerolled Character Table and 
the armor, weapons and magic items listed on 
the Preselected Equipment & Spell List. 


PRESELECTED EQUIPMENT 
AND SPELL LIST 

Jareel Takis: Chainmai! armor; staff of strik 
ing with 26 charges; scroll of protection from 
magic. Knows the following spells: detect 
evil, detect magic, protection from evil, re 
move fear, bless, find traps, know alignment, 
resist lire, cure blindness, cure disease, re 
move curse, animate dead, cure serious 
wounds, dispel magic, commune, raise dead. 

Thern Mor: Plate mail armor; mace +1; 
wand of enemy detection; potion of speed. 
Knows the following spells: detect evil, detect 
magic, light, protection from evil, find traps, 
hold person, know alignment, silence 15' ra 
dius, cure blindness, cure disease, locate ob 
ject, animate dead, cure serious wounds, 
raise dead. 

Axel Kars: Chainmai! armor; two-handed 
sword; dagger; ring of fire resistance; potion 
of healing. 

Purda Blue: Chainmail armor +1; sword 
+ f, intelligence of 9, sec invisible, detect 
evil, find traps, alignment Lawful, ego 4; 
dagger 

Newton Depoc: Dagger, staff of power with 
18 charges; medallion of ESP; potion of in 
vulnerability; Knows the following spells: de 


tect magic, hold portal, light, read magic, de 
tect evil, detect invisible, knock, dispel 
magic, infravision, protection from normal 
missiles, charm monster, massmorph, re 
move curse, animate dead, cloudkill, stone to 
flesh. 

Alphidia Alkot: Dagger; wand of illusion; 
ring of protection + 1; potion of undead con 
trol. Knows the following spells: detect 
magic, magic missile, read magic, continual 
light, knock, wizard lock, dispel magic, invis 
ibility 10' radius, protection from evil 10' ra 
dius, confusion, remove curse, wizard eye, 
hold monster, teleport. 

Kokra the Touch: Leather armor, crossbow; 
16 normal quarrels; 4 quarrels * I; sword; 
dagger +1; scroll of protection from undead; 
bag of holding. 

Sean Boldfinger: Leather armor + I ; sling 
with 20 stones; short sword; dagger; ring of 
x-ray vision; scroll of protection from lycan- 
thropes. 

Gillam Khandum: Chainmail armor; war 
hammer + 3; dagger; gauntlets of ogre 
power; bag of holding. 

Ismelian Sotadis: Chainmail armor; long 
bow; 12 normal arrows; 8+1 arrows; sword; 
dagger; elven cloak and boots. Knows the fol 


lowing spells: detect magic, protection from 
evil, read magic, shield, sleep, continual 
light, detect evil, knock, web, dispel magic, 
fireball, haste, polymorph others, polymorph 
self, magic jar. 

Gelon Mclandil: Plate mail armor +1; 
Shield; sword + I, energy drain; dagger, 
helm of teleportation- Knows the following 
spells: detect magic, read languages, read 
magic, shield, ventriloquism, continual light, 
levitate, mirror image, wizard lock, dispel 
magic, fly; lightning bolt, hallucinatory ter 
rain, remove curse, hold monster 

Bob Silvcrheels: Chainmail armor + I; short 
sword + 1. flames on command; dagger; ring 
of spell turning. 


48 







































































. r. 


Frog Sjftfarnp 


Wat^r Gate 


^drtain Wall 


Bridge 


Building 


The Outer 


pock 


ToWn 


THE FROG 


THE CITY OF 


10 ! Yards 



26A 




r~ 


' 


16 








: st -t* 

w. 

' 

i ) 







v vCi 




15J 


r.rr 





















































































































































































































































































Expert Game Adventure 


Temple of the Frog 

by Dave L. Arneson and David J. Ritchie 


9175XXX1401 


Green Death... 

That's what old hands call the Great Dismal 
Swamp. For centuries, this tangled maze of 
sluggish watercourses, stagnant ponds, and 
festering marshes has defended Blackmoor's 
southwestern frontier. Large armies and 
smaller parties have disappeared altogether 
inside its vast, dripping, claustrophobic 
corridors. 

Among those who have dropped from sight 
in this arboreal hell is young Rissa Aleford, one 
of Blackmoor's most important leaders. 
Carried off to the sinister City of the Frog, she 
is now being held by the eccentric Monks of the 
Swamp. By making the baroness captive, the 
deranged monks have seriously weakened 
Blackmoor at a time when enemies already 
threaten it from all sides. 

Yet, even as the Froggies gloat, the king of 
Blackmoor dispatches a small band of bold 
adventurers to the rescue. Deep into the Great 
Dismal Swamp they must go- far from 
sunlight and sanity-there to seek and save the 
captive baroness from the foul Monks of the 
Swamp. There to find-the Temple of the Frog. 

This adventure is for use with the DUNGEONS 
& DRAGONS Basic and Expert Rules Sets, 
and cannot be played without the rules 
produced by TSR, Inc. 

1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in (l.S.A. 

TSR Inc. TSR UK Ltd. 

POB 756 The Mill. Rathmore Road 

Lake Geneva, Cambridge CB14AD 

WI 53147 United Kingdom 


ISBN 0-88038-317-8 



1 


o""46363"091 

75 0 


S8.00 


i 























