Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09129 X 9 The Savage Coast"
See other formats
Merle and Jackie Rasmussen, and Anne C. Gray 


An Adventure for Character Levels 4 -10 


Expert Game Adventure 


TSR, Inc. 

PNOOUCTS or YOU* IMAGINATION'" 


DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, DGD, PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION, ami th< TSR lo(r)o art tra<Nmaiki 
owiho by TSR. Inc. 





























3D. CAY-MEN CC 


3B. PAGAN TEPEES 


3A. TRIBAL VILLAGE 


ANIMAL 
' TEPEES 


HIDE 














































































































































DM Map 3 

MPOUND 


3E. PHANATONPL 




DIRT AND 


PACKED 
<WOVEN REED WALL 


GATE 













































































































ATFORMS 3G. TENTS 










3H. EGG-LAYING GROUNDS 



*1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 



















































































































































































Expert Game Adventure 


The Savage Coast 

Merle and Jackie Rasmussen and Anne C. Gray 



Graphic Designer: Ruth Hoyer 
Cover Artist: Keith Parkinson 
Interior Artist: Mark Nelson 
Cartographer: Dave "Diesel" LaForce 
Typographer: Betty Elmore 

e 1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and D&D arc registered trademarks 
owned by TSR, Inc. The TSR logo is a trademark of TSR, Inc. 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random 
House, Inc., and in Canada, Ltd. 

Distributed in the toy and hobby trade by regional distributers. 
Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR UK Ltd. 

This adventure is protected under the copyright laws of the United 
States of America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of 
the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the 
express written permission of TSR, Inc. 

Printed in U.S.A. 


TSR, Inc. TSR UK Ltd 

FOB 756 The Mill, Rathmore Road 

Lake Geneva, Cambridge CBHAD 

WI53147 United Kingdom 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


PREPARING FOR THE EXPEDITION 
INTRODUCTION . 

THE ADVENTURE. 

EAST OF ORCS HEAD PENINUSLA . . . 

1. New Hope Outpost . 

2. Native Village. 

3. Second Chance Outpost . 

4. Lawful Alliance Camp. 

5. Neutral Alliance Camp . 

6. Aranea Lairs. 

ORCS HEAD PENINUSLA . 

7. Peaceful Outpost . 

8. Gold Camp . 

9. Aranea Lairs. 

10. Forbidden River Outpost . 

11. Egg-laying Ground . 

12. Gold Camp . 

13. Phanaton Settlement . 

14. Lost City of Risilvar . 

15. Cay-men Outpost. 

16. Seaview Outpost . 

Appendix 

Cleric Outposts Information . 

Monsters. 

Pre-rolled Characters. 

Random Encounters. 


LIST OF PLAYING AIDS 




DM Map 1 . . . . 

DM Map 2. 

DM Map 3 . . . . 
DM Map 4 ... 

Players Map 1. . . 
PlayersMap2. . . 
TheSavageCoast. 


TSR, Inc. 


.2 

3 

4 

4 

4 

5 

7 

8 
8 
8 


8 

9 

11 

11 

12 

12 

21 

21 

21 

24 

25 


26 

27 

31 

30 


outside cover 

.15 

. inside cover 

.16 

.14 

.19 

.13 


An Adventure for Character Levels 4-10 


0-88038-197-3 


ISBN394-54545-1TSR0600 


9129 








































PREPARING FOR THE EXPEDITION 


The Savage Coast is designed for a party 
of 2-8 characters. Each character should be 
between the 4th and 10th level of 
experience. A party of characters should 
include a cleric who is no lower than 6th 
level. Each character should have two or 
three magical items, including magical 
swords and armor. All characters should be 
outfitted for a wilderness adventure. Players 
may choose from the pre-rolled characters 
listed on page 31. 

The Savage Coast is a wilderness and 
urban adventure designed to provide 
players with a wide variety of new settings 
for their characters to explore. Throughout 
the adventure, characters may travel acrosl 
strange seas, darkjungles, thick forests, arid 
desolate grasslands. Each terrain holds new 
challenges for the characters. 

The areas introduced in this adventure 
are designed to expand the D&D(r) game 
world outlined in the Expert rule book and 
other Expert adventures. You may place 
these areas and events of The Savage Coast 
within an already existing campaign 
setting, as long as the geographical areas of 
your campaign match those in this 
adventure. 

When the adventurers are at sea, roll the 
dice at dawn and dusk to see if they 
encounter a monster or other creature. If 
they have an encounter, roll a Id8 and 
consult the Open Sea Random Encounter 
Table on page 30. When the adventurers 
are traveling on a river, consult the River 
Random Encounters Table on page 30. 

The party of adventurers have dropped 
anchor in the harbor of Slagovich. They 
begin their adventure in the city. 

Before beginning play, read the entire 
adventure carefully. Feel free to embellish 
the encounters as you wish. 

Wandering Monsters 

When you check for wandering monster 
encounters, roll Id6. On a roll of 1-3, use 
the Wilderness Encounter Tables from the 
D&D(r) Expert rule book (pages 30 and 35). 
On a roll of 4-6, use the Savage Coast 
Encounter Tables on page 30 of this 
adventure. 


Weather 

The general weather patterns move from 
west to east. There is often a wind from the 
north, east, and south. The coastal climate 
of this area is similar to the southeast 
United States. Inland, the climate is similar 
to that of the Mediterranean. The mild 
weather continues even during the winter. 

Thunderstorms in the Dark Jungle and 
gentle showers over the rest of the area 
occur year round. 

Encounter Maps 

DM Map 1 is an overall view of The 
Savage Coast. It shows details of Ores 
Head Peninsula, the Western Sea, and the 
Savage Gulf. 

DM Map 2 shows the layouts of the 
Lawful Brotherhood Cleric outposts. 

DM Map 3 shows various tribal village 
layouts. 

DM Map 4 shows the Lost City ruins, 
including a step pyramid. 

To get a better idea of how the Savage 
Coast lands relate to other areas of the 
D&D(r) game world, note that the eastern 
edge of DM Map 1 connects with the 
western edge of the Map of Hule on page 
31 of adventure X5, The Temple of Death. 
The Map of Hule shows the port city of 
Slagovich and its surrounding terrain. 
Slagovich also appears on The Wild Lands 
map in adventure X6, Quagmire. 

Abbreviations 


AC 

- 

Armor Class 

HD 

- 

Hit Dice 

hp 

= 

hit points 

MV 

= 

Movement 

#AT 

- 

Number of Attacks 

D 

- 

Damage 

Save 

- 

Save As 

NM 

- 

Normal Man 

F 

= 

Fighter 

Cl 

- 

Cleric 

MU 

- 

Magic-User 

ML 

- 

Morale 

AL 

- 

Alignment 

L 

- 

Lawful 

C 

- 

Chaotic 

N 

= 

Neutral 

XP 

- 

Experience Point Value 



INTRODUCTION 


Your adventure begins in Slagovich as you 
gather for dinner at the Hogs Head Inn at 
which you are staying. You set anchor in 
the bay to rest from ajourney. The Prem 
ise sways quietly among the waves as you 
rediscover your "land legs." 

As you gather at the rough, splintered 
table at the inn, excited talk grows in vol 
ume until no one can hear each other 
speak. 

"Quiet!" the innkeeper screeches as he 
races into the room, attempting to restore 
some order. "Quiet, or I'll refuse to feed 
the lot of you! Can't you take turns talk 
ing?" 

"Not a bad idea," your eyes seem to say 
as you look at each other sheepishly. You 
( agree to talk, one at a time, to tell your 
stories you have learned that day. 

Four of the adventurers have learned 
something important to share with the oth 
ers. Assign one of the following stories to each 
of four adventurers of your choice. 

Story #1 

"There's gold...lot's of it...west of here. 
It's supposed to be all along the coast of 
someplace called Ores Head Peninsula. 
An old seer told me it was there. It's ours 
for the taking ifwe can get past the natives 
who live there. He said the peninsula is a 
dangerous place, but if we're smart, we'd 
never want for anything again. 

"The old man said all we have to do is 
follow the coastline to find the gold..." 

The adventurers may set out for the mon 
strous Savage Coast at any time if they wish 
to go for their own benefit. The coastline is 
dotted with primitive tribes, each with its 
own taboos and traditions. Some tribes are 
hostile while others may be extremely 
friendly. Certain tribes will provide clues to a 
lost city in the Forbidden Highlands, while 
others present the adventurers with lucrative, 
but dangerous quests. 

Story #2 

"The Cartographers Guild of Slagovich 
has offered us a handsome reward for a 
more detailed map of the coastline areas of 
Ores Head Peninsula. If we agree to sail 
along the coast of the peninsula to map the 
lands of the area, they will give us 50,000 
gp each, and they've already given us a 


map that shows the areas where hidden 
treasures might be found, and a map of a 
legendary lost city. No adventurer has 
been able to find the treasures or the city 
yet. 

"They have given us a map of the coast 
line, too. The details are few-it would be 
ourjob to complete as much of the map as 
possible." 

Give the players the Players Map found on 

page 19. They may wish to photocopy the 
map before they begin, in case of error. They 
may use a map key or use colored pencils to 
color code the map. 

The book of maps proves useless except for 
two small, torn sketches tucked in the back. 


These maps are on page 14. The players may 
use the maps even if they do not agree to help 
the Cartographers Guild. 

Story #3 

"The local clerics of the Brotherhood of 
Light are looking for a few good adventur 
ers to discover the whereabouts and the 
activities of their rivals, the Lawful Broth 
erhood. They believe the Lawful Brother 
hood is engaged in some exploitive 
pursuits, and are becoming too powerful. 
They have noticed ships in the harbor that 
fly the Lawful Brotherhood flag, but they 
have not been able to determine the 
Brotherhood's business here. The ships 
come and go only at night-a good indica 
tion that something is not right. 

"They have offered six potions of heal 
ing, a bag of holding, and a ring of teleki 
nesis to any group of adventurers who are 
brave enough to search the coasts of a 
peninsula to the west in search of the Law 
ful Brotherhood." 


Unknown to most, clerics of the Lawful 
Brotherhood have established outposts on 
Ores Head Peninsula. In order to "protect" 
innocent natives from corruption and exploi 
tation by unscrupulous profit-seekers, the 
Brothers have developed a plan. Adventurers 
are discouraged and turned away from the 


area by local rumors and legends of terrible 
beasts, natural barriers, and head-hunting 
cannibals. 

The closer the party gets to any gold, the 
more frantic the warnings become. Local 
native converts working for the Brotherhood 
attempt to thwart the invaders' progress by 
damaging ships and imprisoning the explor 
ers. 

Story #4 


"The Pure Gold Merchant Company is 
searching for a party of adventurers with a 
ship. Rumors of gold along Ores Head 
Peninsula have caused a panic among the 
owners of the company. Their ships are all 
on other expeditions-they have no time 
to wait for their return. If there is gold to 
the west, they want it first, and are willing 
to pay for it. 

"The company has offered to refine half 
the gold in exchange for the other half to 
the first group of adventurers ready to set 
sail. We have no time to waste if we wish 
to accept their offer." 

Although the gold is valuable, the adven 
turers will find it difficult to carry its weight 
in their ship. It is in their best interest to sell 
the gold for more valuable objects that are 
more portable. 









THE ADVENTURE 


The characters may want to bring horses 
along for any land travel. Horses can be pur 
chased in Slagovich. 

The distance from Slagovich to the Gulf of 
Hule is 23 hexes if the party follows the coast 
line. If the adventurers sail straight southwest 
from Slagovich, the distance is 14 hexes. A 
single hex is 24 miles across. 

Check once every five hexes for a random 
encounter. Roll an 8-sided die and consult the 
OPEN SEA RANDOM ENCOUNTER 
table on page 30. 

East of Ores Head Peninsula 

THE GULF OF HULE 

As you enter the Gulf of Hule, the waters 
are calm and the sailing is smooth. A 
slight scratching noise, however, gradu 
ally infringes on the quiet of the beautiful 
waters. The scratching becomes louder 
and more frantic as you stop to listen. You 
then notice rats beginning to climb their 
way on deck, jumping overboard, and 
swimming toward shore. 

Torpedo worms in the ship's hull have 
caused minor leaks which are flooding the 
hold, driving the rats out. The ship has to be 
careened (beached so the outer hull can be 
scraped free of the worms and repaired) 
within 1-4 days or it takes 1-4 hull points of 
damage per day. 

MERMAN 

After The Premise sets sail once again, the 
waters hold no surprises until a primitive 
20-foot-diameter fishing net, rimmed 
with bobbing wooden floats passes the 
ship. As it floats by, it splashes seawater 
onto the ship. 

If the characters retrieve the net, they dis 
cover that it contains an ensnared young 
merman (merboy). If he is questioned, he 
claims to know nothing about gold on the 
peninsula. He has, however, seen many ships 
pass through the waters. They were flying a 
flag with the Lawful Brotherhood symbol. He 
adds that there is some type of building on a 
small peninsula about a day's sail from here. 

If the characters set him free, he tells his 
people of the party's kindness. Shortly after, 
mermen circle the ship and throw on deck 1-4 
large pearls worth 500 gp each. 

Merman: AC 6; HD 1-4; hp 14; MV 

120'(40'); #AT 1 weapon; D By weapon; 

Save FI; ML 8; AL N; XP 10 


If the characters head for the peninsula, 
they discover the New Hope Outpost located 
on the tip of Claw Peninsula. 

1. NEW HOPE OUTPOST (DM Map 2) 

An outpost stands on this sandy peninsu 
la's point. Small ships can be easily 
beached on this shore. Colorful, fragrant 
flowers line a sandy footpath which leads 
to a small wooden gatehouse. The area is 
strangely silent. 

As you approach the gatehouse, a 
winded native wearing a simple leather 
loincloth stumbles to the gatehouse door. 
As he turns to face you, a look of intense 
fear remains frozen on his light brown 
face. He presses his back against the door 
as if to prevent your entrance. 

If the party questions the native, he under 
stands very little. He simply mutters the 
word "Aldizog," and points to the door. If the 
party seems puzzled, the native moves his 
arms to indicate a large object and growls. He 
is trying to make the party believe that a large 
reptilian monster, the legendary Aldizog, is 
inside the outpost. 

If the party does not believe him, he will 
not move from the door until threatened. He 
then flees the area. 

If the characters decide to enter the gate 
house (A), they find the door solidly barred. 
If they attempt to crash open the large iron 
clad wooden doors, or knock on the door, 
read the following. 

The sound of metal scraping against metal 
comes from within the gatehouse. The 
doors open and a man in a long brown 
robe peers out. Behind him are three other 
robed men. 

"State your business, please," the man 
requests pleasantly. 

If the characters explain why they have 
come, the doors slam quickly and do not reo 
pen regardless what the party says. There is 
no other entrance to this walled outpost. The 
walls are only 10 feet high, but each time the 
characters try to scale the wall, natives lean 
over the top and push the party members to 
the ground with long poles. The characters 
try to cast a spell to gain entrance to the out 
post. 

If the characters lie or are hesitant to 
explain their journey, the man at the door 
says, "This is an establishment of truth. Do 
not dishonor us with lies, foolish people." He 
turns to the cleric in the party, if present, and 


adds, "You, above all, should know about 
honor." He then closes the door and bars it. 
He does not open it again. 

There are no secret doors or entrances to 
this outpost. If the characters wait to see if 
anything happens outside the outpost, they 
see no sign of activity. The clerics know of 
their vigil and halt all actions that would 
reveal the clerics' purpose on the peninsula. 
The outpost serves as a "clearing house" for 
all ships that sail east. Some gold is stored at 
the outpost, but most is sold for the Brother 
hood's benefit. 

If the characters try to take the outpost by 
force, 200 natives pour from in and around 
the outpost. They attack only if the party 
attacks. Otherwise, they will let the charac 
ters turn and leave. 

Heroes (200): AC 7; HD 4-1; hp 18; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 bow; D 1-6 + poison; 
Save F4; ML 7; AL Any; XP 75 each 

If the characters still manage to gain entrance 
to the outpost, see entries 3 and 7 for a 
description of the outpost. If they search this 
outpost, they find only 22 gp in the prior's 
residence. No clerics or natives give them any 
information. 

If the characters sail up the New Hope 
River to explore or investigate, they 
encounter the following before they reach a 
small native village (2). 

SNAKES IN THE TREES 

About 150 miles up the New Hope River, 
it narrows with a small clump of trees. 
Vines weave themselves through the 
branches of the trees. 

If the characters attempt to pass through 
the trees and vines, read the following: 

As you enter the darkness created by the 
trees, two large snakes drop down from 
the branches and attack. As you battle the 
snakes, the vines seem to come alive and 
wrap themselves around your party. 

The characters have encountered two rock 
pythons and the strangle vines they live 
among. After the first round, the characters 
have -2 penalty to hit the pythons because of 
the vines. 

Rock pythons (2): AC 6; HD 5*; hp 23; MV 
90'(30'); #AT 1 bite/1 squeeze; D 1-4/2- 
8; Save F3; ML 8; AL N; XP 300 each 


4 





Strangle vine: AC 9; HD 1 per 1 ' square; hp 
8; MV O'; #AT 1; D Special; Save NM; 
ML 12; ALN; XP 10 

Strangle vine looks like an ordinary hang 
ing vine (1-10 strands up to 20' long). It is 
touch sensitive and attempts to hold any indi 
vidual moving into or through it. Like quick 
sand, the more a victim struggles, the tighter 
the vine clings. It anchors itself so firmly to 
overlying branches, it pulls an individual 
from the deck of a vessel. Strangulation dam 
age is 1-4 points per round. A victim usually 
cuts himself loose with an edged weapon. 

There is a 5% chance each round that any 
one with a Strength of 6 or more breaks free. 
For every point of Strength less than 6, the 
chance increases by 5% (an individual with a 
Strength of 2, for example, has a 25% chance 
each round to break free). The stronger the 
victim, the tighter the vine's grip. 

The strangle vine has one Hit Die for every 
one-foot-square area. Thus, one square foot 
is destroyed for every 8 hit points of damage 
done to the vine. 

2. NATIVE VILLAGE (DM Map 3A) 

In the distance, a conical thatched village 
roof rises 25 feet above the ground. Smoke 


rises from a hole cut in the roof. A palisade 
of vertical logs 10 feet high surrounds the 
roofed structure. Brush and logs cover its 
entrance. Small garden patches outside 
the palisade grow various food crops. 

If the characters approach the village nois 
ily or disturb the brush blocking the 
entrance, village dogs begin to bark. Two to 
twelve native males approach, armed with 
bows and arrows. They are preceded by 2-12 
under-fed dogs. If the characters are aggres 
sive or sneak past the palisade into the vil 
lage, the dogs attack, followed by a native 
barrage ofpoison-tipped arrows. If a charac 
ter is hit by two or more arrows, he must save 
vs. Poison or die in 1-4 hours. If the charac 
ters throw down their weapons or speak on 
friendly terms in Common, the natives meet 
them with lowered bows and welcome them 
into their village. 

There are 36 human male warriors (1st 
level fighters), 36 women, 20 children, and 8 
male elders. The elders include four 2nd level 
fighters, two 4th level fighters, a 6th level 
fighter serving as chieftain, and a 5th level 
magic-user as village shaman. 

Dogs (2-12): AC 7; HD 2 + 2; hp 4-18; MV 


180'(60'); #AT 1 bite; D 1-6; Save FI; 
ML 8 or 6; AL N; XP 25 each 

Veterans (36): AC 9; HD 1-1; hp 4; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 bow; D 1-6 + poison; 
Save FI; ML 7; AL Any; XP 5 each 

Warriors (4): AC 8; HD 2-1; hp 8; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 bow; D 1-6 + poison; 
Save F2; ML 7; AL Any; XP 20 each 

Heroes (2): AC 7; HD 4-1; hp 17; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 bow; D 1-6 + poison; 
Save F4; ML 7; AL Any; XP 75 each 

Chieftain (1): AC 5; HD 6-1; hp 26; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 bow; D 1-6 + poison; 
Save F6; ML 7; AL Any; XP 275 

Enchanter (1): AC 9; HD 5-1; hp 22; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 bow; D 1-6 + poison; 
Save MU5; ML 7; AL Any; XP 175 

Spells: magic missile, read magic, ESP, 
web, fire ball 

The natives practice cannibalism, eating 
the flesh of human warriors killed in combat. 
Demi-humans or females captured in combat 
are kept as slaves. There are no slaves at this 
time. The skulls of enemy natives are hoisted 
on spear points within the village. 

Before natives trade information or be- 


5 













THE ADVENTURE 


longings with the characters, the characters 
must become village members. To do this 
they must walk across a 20-foot-long red-hot 
coal bed. For each character attempting the 
crossing, roll Id20. Unless magic is used for 
protection, if the number rolled is less than or 
equal to the character's Constitution, that 
character safely crosses the coals. If the char 
acter walks barefoot across the coals, no dam 
age occurs. If the character wears shoes, 
boots, or armor on his feet, the material 
burns or melts away. If the number rolled is 
less than or equal to the character's Constitu 
tion, that character suffers 1-10 points of heat 
damage. 

Villagers, in trembling whispers, warn 
travelers of Aldizog, a giant bipedal reptile 
living on the Twin Islands, which ravages 
livestock and gardens. They also tell of 
Risilvar, a richly-decorated ghost city built by 
their ancestors. They say it is located some 
where in the Forbidden Highlands. If the 
characters show them the map, they cannot 
confirm that it is the map to Risilvar. 

The natives are willing to trade food or 
weapons for gemstones and normal items or 
animals, but they do not accept money. The 
natives do not understand the concept of 
coins. If the characters try to trade an item 
which is obviously magical, there is only a 
25% chance the natives accept it. 

If the characters travel further upstream, 
they encounter the following: 

GIANT RIVER SERPENTWEED 

The water ahead must be sluggish. It is 
covered with a layer of green algae. There 
is no clear path through the slime. 

If the characters wish to avoid the algae, 
they must cut a path through, fly over, or 
leave the river and portage any vessels 1,000 
yards along the riverbank. If the characters 
decide to travel through the algae, read the 
following: 

The water becomes sluggish and algae- 
covered. Suddenly, a loud splash splatters 
mud in all directions. A hissing sound 
breaks the water's surface as a great ser 
pentine neck shoots up through the algae. 

A fanged head stretches 10 feet above the 
water. 

The serpentine neck is actually one head- 
stalk of a giant river serpentweed. The plant 
attacks until either it or the characters are 
defeated. Each time a head-stalk is hit, or it 
hits a character, another of its six head-stalks 


shoots up through the muck to attack. If the 
characters move 20 feet from the head-stalks, 
they are safely out of the plant's range. The 
stalks then slither back into the muck and 
mire. This creature has no treasure. 

Giant river serpentweed: AC 6; HD 9 per 
stalk; hp 41 each stalk; MV O'; #AT 1 bite 
per stalk; D 2-12; Save F9; ML 12; ALN; 
XP 900 per stalk; immune to fire, illu 
sions, and mind control spells. 

If the party lands anywhere on shore along 
the Claw Peninsula to the sandy beach, they 
encounter the following: 

SAND BEACH TORTLE 

A greenish-brown rock-like object on the 
sandy shore suddenly sprouts legs. As the 
rock tilts to stand on end, a reptile's head 
emerges from the top. The creature stands 
6 feet tall. It slowly moves toward the 
shoreline in an attempt to get your atten 
tion. 

This creature is a tortle. If the characters 
attack the tortle, it retracts into its shell. If the 
characters speak to it, it answers in Common. 
It has seen ships pass by the beach, but the 
people on them have been unfriendly so it 
simply ignores them now. One time, it 
recalls, a human tossed a shiny stone at it to 
deter it. "Pretty stone," it utters. "If you 
want, I dig it up. Over here," it says, and 
lumbers over to a small mound of sand. The 
stone proves to be a walnut-size nugget of 
gold. The tortle will give the characters the 
stone if they ask for it. 

Tortle: AC 3; HD 4; hp 18; MV 30'(10'); 
#AT 2 claws/1 beak; D 1 -4/1-4/1-6; Save 
F4; ML 11; AL L; XP 75 

Further down the beach near Camel 
Hump, the characters encounter another tor- 
tie if they sail closely along the coastline, or if 
they travel on foot. 

CAMEL HUMP TORTLE 

A large greenish-brown turtle lies belly-up 
in the sand. It does not struggle to right 
itself, but seems to be enjoying the sun 
shine on its underside. 

If the characters approach the creature, they 
discover it is a tortle. If they try to turn the 
creature, it moans in slow Common, "No. 
Want sun." The tortle has seen ships sail by, 
but he isn't sure what they carry. It says the 
ships fly the same flag as what flies over the 


outpost at Claw Inlet. "You not welcome 
there. No one welcome there, but ships," it 
says. 

If the party attacks the tortle, it retracts his 
head and limbs into his shell and can't be 
coaxed out unless the characters mention 
they had seen another tortle on the beach east 
of here. The tortle then determinedly heads 
east without another word. 

Tortle: AC 3; HD 4; hp 18; MV 30'(10'); 
#AT 2 claws/1 beak; D 1-4/1-4/1-6; Save 
F4; ML 11; AL L; XP 75 

Only if the characters land on the tip of the 
peninsula by the islands do they encounter the 
following tortles slowly moving along the beach. 

TWIN ISLAND PENINSULA TORTLES 

In the distance, a large rock seems to slide 
along the sand. Behind it, two small rocks 
follow. 

If the characters investigate, they discover 
that the rocks are a female tortle and its 
newly-hatched torts. It has seen nothing, 
except an occasional ship that passes by. Its 
torts say nothing, quickly curling up within 
their shells. If the characters attack the female 
tortle, it retracts into its shell. It will not 
attack unless its torts are in danger. 

Tortle: AC 3; HD 4; hp 18; MV 30'(T0'); 
#AT 2 claws/1 beak; D 1-4/1-4/1-6; Save 
F4; ML 11; AL L; XP 75 

If the characters follow the coastline, they 
will discover the Second Chance Outpost (3) 
at the mouth of a river. If they do not follow 
the coastline, they encounter the following in 
the bay of this area. 

MERMAID 

A pleasant female voice fills the air with 
song, drawing you to the vessel's star 
board rail. Someone in the waves is sing 
ing the most melodic music you have ever 
heard. Three hundred feet away you see a 
young woman standing waist-deep in the 
waves, combing her hair and singing into 
a mirror. 

The player characters have two rounds to 
begin making noise, plug their ears, or tie 
themselves to the vessel. 

The creature is a mermaid and her pleas 
ant song is calling the crew to their watery 
deaths. After two rounds, any creature hear 
ing the mermaid's song must make a saving 


6 




THE ADVENTURE 


throw vs. Spells or be charmed. If a listener 
makes a successful saving throw against the 
mermaid's song, the listener is not affected by 
the song during the encounter. Victims who 
are charmed want only to leap into the sea 
and live with the mermaid underwater. They 
fight anyone who tries to prevent them from 
doing so. The victim survives underwater for 
a number of rounds equal to his Constitution 
score divided by 3 (round up). After the 
rounds pass, the victim must save vs. Death 
Ray each round or suffer Id 10 points of dam 
age. 

If the ship is sailed for 6 rounds away from 
the mermaid, her song is no longer heard. 
She can be fought by uncharmed characters. 
If she is killed, the charm is immediately bro 
ken. Her comb is worth 100 silver pieces. 

Mermaid: AC 9; HD 1; hp 5; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 song; D special; Save 
FI; ML 8; AL N; XP 10 

3. SECOND CHANCE OUTPOST 
(DM Map 2) 

An outpost stands at the mouth of this 
river. Its iron-clad wooden doors face the 
bay. A large ship is anchored in the waters 
of the bay. A small boat is beached on the 
shore. 

If the characters approach the outpost 
doors, the sub-prior of the outpost welcomes 
them. He invites the characters in for food 
and rest. The sub-prior gives no indication of 
the outpost's mining activities. 

If the characters need a place to stay, they 
are introduced to the hostillar. Male visitors 
are invited to stay in the dormitory with the 
brothers (area F). Female visitors stay in 
quarters adjacent to the temple (area C2). 
The hostillar carries a key to all areas labelled 
C. See entry 7 for a description of these areas. 

If the characters have valuables they want 
stored, the commoner is glad to accomodate 
them. He is in charge of the cellar and storage 
area (H). He carries two keys; one to the stor 
age area and one to a strongbox. 

The characters are locked in their quarters 
for the night. If they manage to escape, the 
only unlocked doors they find lead to the 
main temple area. If they attempt to break 
into any other areas, the sub-prior tries to 
accost them and send them back to their 
quarters with two adepts. The adepts remain 
alert outside their quarters the rest of the 
night. The characters may leave the way they 
entered at any time. 

The dormitory has a large hall below it. All 
clerics, except the prior and his staff, meet in 


the outpost hall every day from 10 a.m. to 11 
a.m. to discuss the outpost's business. This 
includes 18 acolytes, 1-10 adepts, 3 priests, 2 
vicars, 2 curates, 2 elders, 2 bishops, and 2 
lamas. The meeting is lead by the sub-prior. 
The hall walls are lined with chairs. 

The dormitory walls above are lined with 
box beds, a wooden frame criss-crossed with 
ropes holding a down-filled mattress. At each 
bed's foot is a locked strongbox. In each 
strongbox are a cleric's personal belongings 
and any clothing he is not currently wearing. 

Each cleric has a tunic, a scapular sleeve 
less outer garment, and a cowl, in addition to 
an undershirt, drawers, tunic, two head caps, 
two pairs of slippers, two pairs of boots, an 
extra cowl hood, leggings, two blankets, 
seven pairs of socks, a leather belt, handker 
chiefs, needles, a holy symbol necklace, a key 
to his own strongbox, and writing materials. 
Some clerics have their own personal books. 

The clerics, except the prior and his staff, 
are only in the dormitory during siesta and at 
night. 

The outpost temple (B) has two stories and 
an open space to the ceiling. The bare stone is 
not decorated, although numerous wooden 
altars stand on the floor throughout the build 
ing. 

The precentor is in charge of temple music 
and ceremonies. He files music and cleans 
during work periods. All clerics except the 
prior are present during worship periods. 

TWIN ISLANDS (a) 

All around you the sounds of insects and 
birds becomes silent. You hear, then feel, a 
distant series of massive thuds coming 
closer. Vegetation crackles and snaps 
beneath the footsteps of a heavy creature. 
An unearthly scream tears through the 
silence as the multi-toothed head of a huge 
reptile appears. A 25-foot-tall monster 
thunders forward, whipping its massive 
tail and kicking clawed feet. 

The creature is the legendary Aldizog. He 
is actually an adult male tyrannosaurus rex 
hunting for food. Its whipping tail and kick 
ing feet knock down one opponent behind or 
beside the monster once per round, but cause 
no damage. 

Aldizog (tyrannosaurus rex): AC 3; HD 20; 
hp90; MV 120'(40'); #AT 1 bite; D6-36; 
Save F10; ML 11; AL N; XP 2,000 

If the monster is attacked, it swallows a 
character if its hit roll is 19 or 20. The victim 
takes 2-8 points of damage each round in the 


creature's belly. 

If allowed to retreat, the tyrannasaurus rex 
noisily returns to hunt the characters later 
with its mate, which has 80 hit points. If the 
mate is wounded, both monsters return with 
a 70-hit-point tyrannosaurus rex. This proc 
ess continues until a total of six tyrannosaurs 
are encountered unless the preceding animals 
are defeated. The reinforcements have 60, 
50, and 40 hit points respectively. If the char 
acters follow the retreating monsters, they 
encounter the remainder all at once in one 
place. 

Aldizog carries no treasure, but if the char 
acters retrace his footprints, they find a 
crushed native bracelet worth 525 gp. If the 
characters defeat all six creatures, they find 
native jewelry worth 3,150 gp. 

TWIN ISLANDS (b) 

Large animal footprints over 1 foot across 
cover the grassy shores of this island. You 
feel thundering vibrations approaching 
your direction. 

If the characters stay on the island, they 
encounter Aldizog, a tyrannosaurus rex. 
Run this encounter the same as the previous 
encounter. They find native jewerly worth 
l,740gp. 

DREAM RIVER 

If the characters sail up this river, they 
encounter the following: 

Slow water ahead is covered with golden 
water lilies the size of sunflowers. There is 
no clear path through the floating plants. 

If the characters wish to avoid the plants, 
they must cut a path, fly over, or leave the river 
and portage any vessels 1,000 yards along the 
riverbank. If the characters decide to travel 
through the plants, read the following: 

The water becomes sluggish and plant- 
covered. Suddenly, a blossom 10 feet away 
burst open, spraying a large cloud of pol 
len. 

The cloud of pollen measures 40 feet by 40 
feet. Any character within the affected area 
must save vs. Spells or fall asleep for 4-16 
turns. The flowers are amber lotuses which 
spray a fresh burst of pollen every 3-12 
rounds. There are 3-18 plants growing ran 
domly among thousands of normal water lil 
ies. Whenever a creature approaches within 


7 




THE ADVENTURE 


10 feet, the blossoms burst so the creature 
might further spread the amber lotus flower's 
pollen. 

Amber lotus flower: AC 9; HD 1/2; hp 1-4; 
MV 0; #AT 1 spray; D Special; Save NM; 
ML 12; ALN; XP 6 

If not enough characters are left awake to 
pilot the vessel, it drifts downstream against a 
bank. 

4. LAWFUL ALLIANCE CAMP 
(DM Map 3C) 

Smoke rises in the distance. A square of 
nine bark lodges surrounds a central fire. 
Several dog-headed humanoids move 
among the lodges. 

If the characters approach this temporary 
camp in a friendly, open manner, they are 
invited to stay and eat with the camp. If the 
party approaches within 1,000 feet of the 
camp in a secret or hostile manner, they are 
spotted 50% of the time by sentries. 
Intruders are not welcome, and campers 
defend themselves by making as much noise 
as possible to alert the camp. 

Each of the lodges contains 1-8 lupins, half 
of whom are armed with lances. The rest are 
non-combatants. Each lodge contains 200- 
1,200 cp, 100-800 sp, and 10-200 ep. 

Lupin (1-8): AC 5; HD 2; hp 9; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 lance; D 1-10; Save F2; 
ML 8; AL L; XP 20 

DECAPUS 

If the characters do not sail up Dream 
River, the following encounter occurs any 
where in Helmet Bay. If they do sail up the 
river, the encounter happens as they once 
again enter Helmet Bay. 

A tangle of green and brown seaweed is 
pulled in with your anchor. 

The 10-foot brown tentacles of a marine 
decapus are interlaced with green seaweed 
leaves. The tangled mass hides the creature's 
4-foot spherical hairy green body. If lifted 
from the water, the creature acts dead. Its 
foul breath makes the creature smell as if it is 
rotting. Once on board, it attacks with all ten 
tentacles. If one character is ensnared by four 
or more tentacles, the monster tries to pull 
itself and its captive overboard. The prey sur 
vives underwater for the number of rounds 
equal to his Constitution divided by 3. After 
the rounds pass, the character must save vs. 


Death Ray each round or suffer ldlO points 
of damage. The monster's treasure of three 
pearls worth 500 gp each are hidden in a sea 
weed nest on the nearest shore. 

Marine decapus: AC 5; HD 4; hp 18; MV 
3'(1'); #AT 10 tentacles; D 1-6 each; 
Save F2; ML 9; AL C; XP 75 

SEA CREATURE 

Four rounds after the characters rid them 
selves of the decapus, a mysterious sea crea 
ture appears. 

A large, lumpy green sea creature the size 
of a large shark follows your vessel. It 
remains 360 feet from your stern at all 
times. 

If the characters stop their ship or go to 
investigate, the timid creature suddenly dives 
and is not seen again. It is attracted by gar 
bage thrown overboard. 

TORTLE GATHERING 

If the characters sail close to shore along 
the sand beach, they spot a gathering of crea 
tures along the shore. 

Several turtle-like creatures are gathered 
in a half circle near the shore. Sitting on 
the sand, they appear to be about four feet 
tall. They converse in a strange language 
you do not understand. 

If the characters approach the tortles in a 
friendly manner, the tortles will talk with 
them in Common. If asked, they explain that 
all the cleric outposts involved in some activ 
ity that has ships sailing past frequently. At 
the rear of the outposts, there is a secret 
entrance they have used to observe the cler 
ics. The tortles say the clerics pack some 
shiny stones in crates and put them on the 
ships. 

If the characters attack the tortles, they 
withdraw into their shells. 

Tortles (4): AC 4; HD 4; hp 18; MV 
30'( 1 O'); #AT 2 claws/1 beak; D 1-4/1-4/ 
1-6; SaveF4; ML 11; ALL; XP 75 

Ores Head Peninsula 

5. NEUTRAL ALLIANCE CAMP 
(DM Maps 3B and 3G) 

Smoke rises in the distance. A circle of 
eight conical tepees stands beside a cluster 
of four cloth tents. Robed humans move 


among the tepees and occasionally a cat 
headed humanoid appears near the tents. 

If the characters approach this temporary 
Neutral Alliance camp in a friendly manner, 
they are invited to stay and eat with them. 
Tortles and lupins are not welcome. If the 
party approaches on a hostile manner, the 
campers alert everyone in camp to help 
defend. 

Each of the eight tepees contains 1-10 
pagans, half of whom are armed with normal 
swords. The rest are non-combatants. Each 
tepee contains treasure worth 10-10,000 gp. 

Pagan (1-10): AC 6; HD 1; hp 5; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8; Save FI; 
ML 8; ALN; XP 10 

Each of the four cloth tents contain 1-10 
rakastas, half of whom are only armed with 
their "war claws." The rest are non- 
combatants. Each tents contains expensive 
rugs, tapestries, bowls, and drinking cups 
worth 100-10,000 gp. 

Rakasta(l-lO): AC 6; HD 2 + 1; hp 10; MV 
90'(30'); #AT 2 war claws/1 bite; D 1-4/ 
1-4/1-4; Save F2; ML 9; AL N; XP 25 

6, ARANEA LAIRS (DM Map 3F) 

Ten to twenty-foot-long white fibers hang 
from nearby trees. Webbed leaves, bark, 
and twigs lie on the ground below the 
trees. Dense foliage prevents you from 
seeing higher into the trees. 

The white fibers are sticky. If a character 
touches the fiber, he recognizes it as a spider 
web. Only a character who climbs 20 to 30 
feet above the ground is able to see the webs 
which are 40 feet above the ground. Climb 
ing trees or pulling on the white fibers alerts 
four aranea living in the webbed-over sec 
tions of their lair. The lairs resemble white 
caves. The aranea attack intruders of their 
part of the forest. Many pieces of crude "fur 
niture" made of web, vine, and wood are 
woven in place on the floor of these lairs. The 
intelligent giant spiders have woven treasure 
worth 100 to 400 gp into the ceiling of each of 
their lairs for safe keeping. These aranea are 
wild and do not have spell books. 

Aranea (4): AC 7; HD 3**; hp 24, 22, 20, 
18; MV 60'(20'), in web 120'(40'); #AT 
1 bite; D 1-6 + poison; Save MU3; ML 
7; AL C: XP 65 


8 




THE ADVENTURE 


SNAPPERS 

A rock-walled roofless labyrinth stands 
just above the high tide line. The only 
entrance through the six-foot-high walls 
faces the sea and is barricaded with large 
driftwood logs. About 20 reptilian heads 
are visible inside the complex fortress. 

The 20 snappers inside the fortified egg- 
laying grounds do not leave the compound to 
combat attackers. Each is armed with a long 
bow, 24 arrows, and a potion of speed. They 
do not fire unless attackers approach within 
short range (70 feet) or are discovered sneak 
ing into the compound. The snappers then 
drink the potion of speed and fire two arrows 
per round for 7-12 rounds. They attempt to 
capture anyone entering under a flag of 
truce. 

Snappers (20): AC 5; HD 3; hp 14; MV 
30'(10'), swimming 180'(60'); #AT 2 
claws/1 beak or longbow; D 1-6/1 -6/2-8 or 
1-6 by arrow; Save F3; ML 9; AL C; XP 
35 

Each snapper carries 1-6 platinum pieces 
but they are guarding their real treasure; 
200-800 of their eggs buried 1 foot deep in the 


sand within the compound. The eggs hatch in 
1-20 days and the hatchlings are immediately 
carried to the relative safety of the nearby 
sea. Snapper eggshell is not valuable and can 
not be made into armor. 

7. PEACEFUL OUTPOST 

An outpost stands beside this pleasant 
cove. Small ships can easily be beached on 
this shore. Smooth stones line the grassy 
footpath leading to the gatehouse. 

There does not seem to be much sign of 
life at this outpost. 

if the characters attempt to open the 
wooden doors to the gatehouse, they find 
them locked. If they try to find the secret door 
at the rear of the outpost, they find it next to 
the bath house and latrine (Q). Otherwise, 
they may climb the walls to gain entrance. 

The outpost looks occupied, but no one is 
immediately visible. The characters have 8 
rounds to examine the outpost before the 
clerics start to return two per round for four 
rounds. Then the remaining 24 are alerted 
and return with 20 natives. The clerics and 
natives have returned by ship from a small 
camp set up to gather gold that has settled in a 


shallow part of the river. The camp lies about 
50 miles north on the river. The ship carries 
22 small barrels filled with gold nuggets and 
dust worth 350 gp each. 

The characters must defend themselves 
against the returning clerics unless they can 
weave a convincing tale why they have 
entered the outpost. If they convince the cler 
ics they are there to help, they will receive 
free reign of the outpost, although they will 
be watched carefully. 

For a description of areas A, B, and F, see 
entries 1 and 3. 

Native warriors (20): AC 8; HD 2-1; hp 8; 
MV 120'(40'); #AT 1 bow; D 1-6 + poi 
son; Save F2; ML 7; AL Any; XP 20 

C. EMPTY CHAMBERS 

Cl. Guestroom 

Lawful characters who decide to leave their 
party are allowed to stay in this guestroom. 

C2. Cell 

Prisoners are locked in this room. The hos- 
tillar carries the key to all areas labeled C. 



9 




THE ADVENTURE 


D. SCRIPTORIUM (WRITING ROOM) 
AND LIBRARY 

This two-story building has a writing room 
below and a library above. The writing room 
contains a secretarial office. The library con 
tains a "strong room" for valuables. 

Downstairs in the scriptorium 10 stools 
face 10 desks with slanted tops. Manuscript 
pages are written, copied, and illuminated on 
these desks. 

The locked secretarial office contains blank 
parchment, sandboxes (for drying ink), pens, 
ink, and five gp worth of gold leaf. A locked 
strongbox in the office contains 10-100 plati 
num pieces. 

Upstairs in the library 15 bookcases line 
the walls. There are 6 wooden tables and 24 
chairs in the center of the room. There are 
many candles for lighting stored in boxes on 
some of the bookshelves. 

The locked strong room contains ancient 
books, a scroll, a map, a flat wooden box, and 
a locked strongbox. The scroll contains three 
first level clerical spells; detect evil, purify 
food and water, and remove fear. The map 
shows the positions of all the cleric outposts. 
The flat box is empty. The strongbox con 
tains 120 pp. 

One to four adepts read in the library 
between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. every 
morning. The chancellor is also in the library 
each day at this time. He carries keys to the 
secretarial office downstairs and the strong 
room upstairs. 

E. VESTRY AND SACRISTY 

This two-story building has the vestry 
below and the sacristy above. 

The vestry is where clerics leading a temple 
ceremony go before and after the ceremony 
to dress and disrobe. There is a locked strong 
box in the vestry that contains 20-100 pp. 

The sacristy is where the ceremonial cloth 
ing, banners, and standards are stored 
between worship services. In the locked sac 
risty are seven vestments embroidered with 
gold thread worth 25 gp each. Temple orna 
ments of gold, silver, and precious stones are 
worth 1,000-4,000 gp. 

The sacrist looks after the temple mainte 
nance, lighting, and cleaning. He also stores 
ceremonial robes, hats, flags, and standards. 
He carries a key to the sacristy. The sub 
sacrist helps the sacrist in performing his tem 
ple duties. 

G. MAIN CLOISTER 

The main cloister is a covered walk with an 
open colonade on one side. The colonade 


runs along the inside walls of buildings that 
surround a square yard. In the center of the 
yard is a well. Along the north colonade are 
wooden partitions that form study carrels. 
Many clerics read in the carrels between 7:00 
a.m. and 9:00 a.m. 

H. CELLAR AND STORAGE AREA 

This two-story building has a cellar down 
stairs and storage space upstairs. 

Downstairs in the locked cellar are large 
casks filled with wine, ale, and beer. Sausages 
and cheeses hang from the rafters. Dried fruit 
and salted fish are packed away in boxes 
stacked against the walls. A locked strongbox 
contains 2-12 pp and 1-6 gemstones worth 
100 gp each. The clerics use the area to store 
gold overnight rather than leaving it on the 
ships. No gold is stored here now. 

Upstairs in the locked storage area is furni 
ture and supplies. The commoner carries 
keys to the cellar, strongbox, and storage 
area. 

I. BARN 

The north end of this building is a stable 
for 2-12 mares used as riding horses. One to 
six donkeys and 1-6 mules are also stabled. 
Four two-wheeled carts are stored beside the 
mules. Above the stable is a filled hayloft. If 
the characters have mounts, they may stable 
them here or in the building's south end. 

The south end of the building is a stable for 
1-6 oxen and 2-12 cows. One to six yokes are 
stored with six plows. Above the stable is a 
loft filled with 100-pound sacks ofwheat, bar 
ley, and rye. The granator rations the grain 
between the brewery and the stables during 
work periods. 

The center area of the building is a combi 
nation sheepfold, pigsty, goat shed, and poul 
try house. At dusk all of these animals enter 
the pens in the center area of the building. 

Three of the four fenced yards surrounding 
the building contain 4-24 sheep, goats, or 
pigs. One yard contains a stone-lined pool for 
1-12 ducks and 1-12 geese. Three to thirty-six 
hens with 1-4 roosters scratch in the yard 
beside the pool. During the day the fowl are 
heard several yards away. At dawn, or if dis 
turbed during the night, the roosters are 
heard crowing all across the outpost. 

A charm monster spell has been cast on the 
animals in the barn. The spell does not affect 
characters' mounts. The animals attack any 
one not wearing a robe who enters their sta 
ble or pen. None of the animals have 
treasure. 

Horses (2-12): AC 7; HD 2; hp 9; #AT 2 


hooves; D 1-4/1-4; MV 240'(80'); Save 
FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 20 

Donkeys and mules (2-12): AC 7; HD 2^hp 
9; #AT 1 kick or 1 bite; D 1-4 or 1-3; MV 
120'(60'); SaveFl; ML 8; AL N; XP 20 

Oxen and cows (3-18): AC 7; HD 3; hp 14; 
#AT 1 butt; D 1-6; MV 240'(80'); Save 
FI; ML 5; AL N; XP 35 

Sheep, goats, and pigs (4-24): AC 7; HD 1; 
hp 5; #AT 1 butt; D 1-4; MV 240'(80'); 
Save FI; ML 5; AL N; XP 20 

Ducks, geese, and chickens (5-60): AC 8; 
HD 1/2; hp 2; #AT 1; D 1-2; MV 
240'(80'); Save NM; ML 7; AL N; XP 5 

I. FOOD WORKERS' AREA 

Areas II through 15 contain a bakery, 
brewery, mill, wine press, and kiln and fruit 
drying house, respectively. Eaeh area con 
tains supplies, utensils, and food. 

16. Kitchen 

The floor of this room is covered with 
blood-stained sawdust. A wall rack holds a 
number of large knives (treat as normal dag 
gers) and meat cleavers (treat as hand axes). 
In the center of the room is a large blood 
stained chopping block almost three feet tall 
and three feet square. 

The kitchen contains many dishes, pots, 
pans, waterskins full of various fluids, espe 
cially wine and ale. Fresh poultry hangs from 
the rafters. There are 1-12 normal rations 
worth of vegetables, fruit, bread, cheese, 
eggs, and fish. The red coals of a large cook 
ing fire glow on a hearth. 

The cellarer is in charge of meat supplies 
and victuals. He carries a leather pouch that 
contains 1-10 pp. 

K. REFECTORY (DINING HALL) 

AND WARDROBE 

This two-story building has a dining hall 
below and a clothes storage room with laun 
dry above. 

The dining room downstairs has long 
benches standing beside long wooden tables. 
The refectorian is in charge of the dining hall 
and directs two adept waiters during meals. 
Most clerics eat or serve in the dining hall 
during meals. 

Upstairs in the laundry, clothes are washed 
in tubs by hand. The chamberlain is in 
charge of all clerics' clothing. He carries a 
leather pouch on his belt. The pouch contains 
2-20 pp. 


10 




THE ADVENTURE 


L. CRAFTSMEN'S WORKSHOPS 
LI. Cobbler 

Both old and new shoes and sandals line 
the shelves of this room. Nothing of value is 
in the room. 

L2. Saddler and Bridle Maker 

Saddles, bridles, and saddle bags are avail 
able to the characters. Nothing of value is in 
the room. 

L3. Sword and Shield Maker 

Any weapon listed on page 19 in the Expert 
rule book, including barding for horses, 
chain mail armor, plate mail armor, and 
shields are repaired by the armorer. No 
weapons or armor are available. 

L4. Wood and Stone Carver 

Gemstones and jewelry are appraised and 
purchased at full value by the carver. Gem 
stones obtained from the player characters 
are stored in a leather pouch worn by the 
carver. There are 11 gemstones worth 300 gp 
each locked in a strongbox on a table. 

L5. Tanner 

Leather armor is not available but may be 
repaired. 

L6. Metalworker 

Coins are exchanged here for gold pieces of 
equal value less a 5% exchange fee. 

L7. Blacksmith 

Metalwork is performed in a forge. Several 
iron spikes lie on a shelf at the back of the 

L8. Cooper 

Small sturdy barrels are produced here to 
carry the outpost's gold shipments. 

L9. Turner 

A lathe and some scattered pieces of wood 
are in this room. Sawdust covers the floor. 

M. BATH HOUSE AND LATRINE 

The room's air and water are heated by a 
large fireplace. Warm water is poured into 
wooden barrels used for bathing. There is no 
soap, but plenty of coarse towels hang along 
the walls. 


N. WALLED ENCLOSURE 

The east end of this walled enclosure con 
tains a burial ground marked by simple 
stones and sculpture. No undead creatures 
dare to enter a cleric outpost cemetary. 

The west end of this walled enclosure con 
tains pruned and trained fruit trees. Apples, 
pears, peaches, plums, and currants grow in 
this orchard. 

O. VEGETABLE GARDEN 
AND GRAPE ARBOR 

Neat rows of vegetables grow inside this 
walled enclosure. A novice tends the plants. 

R PRIOR'S HOUSE 

This building is richly decorated and finely 
furnished. There is glass in the windows, 
carved wooden ceilings, and four tapestries 
worth 250 gp each hanging in the bedrooms. 
Four statues made of gold stand in the center 
of the house (worth 1,000 gp each). The 
house contains chambers, a wine cellar, pan 
try, wardrobe, storerooms, offices, a study, 
and a parlor. A holy symbol hangs in each 
room. The pantry contains silverware worth 
1,000 sp. The house has its own entrance to 
the temple and the main cloister. 

The prior has a council of senior clerics 
advise him. Assisting the prior is his secretary 
and steward. They defend him from 
intruders. All are in the house at all times. 

8. GOLD CAMP 

If the characters follow the river north to 
find where the ships have returned from, they 
discover a small camp. 

Fifty miles north on this river, a small, 
primitive settlement comes into view. 
Several natives stand in the shallow water, 
apparently panning for gold. A small ship 
is anchored 100 yards south of the camp in 
waters that are deeper. Two men in cleric's 
robes stand on the shore watching the 
natives. Sixteen wooden barrels line the 
shore. 

This temporary settlement was set up to 
gather the gold in the river that has washed 
down from upstream. The settlement moves 
north when the natives pan all the gold they 
can in the area. 

Even if the characters approach in a 
friendly manner, the natives drop their pans 
and run for weapons to attack. The clerics 
flee into the grasslands rather than fight. 

Warriors (8): AC 8; HD 2-1; hp 8; MV 

11 


120'(40'); #AT 1 bow; D 1-6 + poison; 
Save F2; ML 7; AL Any; XP 20 each 

Heroes (4): AC 7; Hd 4-1; hp 17; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 bow; D 1-6 + poison; 
Save F4; ML 7; AL Any; XP 75 

If the characters manage to sneak on the 
cleric's ship, they find only empty barrels. If 
they defeat the natives, they discover that 
three of the barrels on the shore are half filled 
with gold. The gold in each barrel is worth 
300 gp. If the characters want to stay to pan 
for gold, they find one small nugget each turn 
for 9 turns. The gold is worth a total of 45 gp. 

9. ARANEA LAIRS (DM Map 3F) 

Long white fibers hang from the trees 
which line the river. Webbed leaves, bark, 
and twigs lie on the ground below the 
trees. Leaves of the trees prevent you from 
seeing higher into the tree. 

If the characters touch the fibers, they rec 
ognize them as a spider web. Only if the char 
acters climb high into the trees can they see 
the large webs. If they climb the trees or pull 
on the fibers, a small man in a tattered cleric's 
robe emerges. 

He will speak with the characters if they 
approach him in a friendly manner, other 
wise he will send two aranea to attack. 

The man was at the Forbidden River out 
post until it was overrun by a Chaotic Broth 
erhood in search of gold. He fled for his life as 
they ransacked the entire outpost. He will 
travel with the characters to the outpost, but 
no further. 

Adept: AC 9; HD 2; hp 7; #AT 1; D 1-6; 
MV 120'(40'); Save C2; ML 4; AL L; 
XP20 

Spell: cure light wounds 

Aranea (2): AC 7; HD 3**; hp 24, 20; MV 
60'(20'), in web 120'(40'); #AT 1 bite; D 
1-6 + poison; Save MU3; ML 7; AL C; 
XP 65 each 

WHITE BEAST 

If the characters land anywhere along the 
Dark Jungle coast either before or after they 
reach the Forbidden River Outpost, they 
encounter the following: 

The sand around the around the area is 
spotted with large ape-like footprints. 
Suddenly, insects around you become 
silent. Birds flee over your head. You hear, 




THE ADVENTURE 


and then feel a distant series of massive 
thuds rapidly moving closer. The foot 
steps of a huge creature crush vegetation 
in their path. A deep roar rumbles 
through the trees as the head of a great 
white ape appears. The 12-foot tall mon 
ster steps forward beating its massive 
chest with huge fists. 

The white beast is actually a gargantuan 
white ape. The adult male is threatening the 
party because they have invaded his territory. 

White beast (gargantuan white ape): AC 6; 
HD 32; hp 144; MV 240'(80'); #AT 2 

claws; D 4-16/4-16; SaveF16; ML 11; AL 
N;XP 5,250 

If the party retreats from the white beast, 
the monster does not pursue. If the party 
leaves any objects behind, the great white ape 
smells and touches them, and then tries to eat 
them. 

The white beast is usually a timid creature 
which only becomes defensively violent if 
attacked. Because of its size, the monster is 
noisy while moving and cannot surprise any 
thing. It also suffers a -4 penalty to its hit rolls 
when attacking man-size or smaller oppo 
nents. If its hit points are reduced to 72 or 
below it retreats. Because of its curiosity, it 
tries to pick and carry away the first creature 
it hits. It carries no treasure. 

It always retreats deeper into the jungle to 
its lair of broken branches and leaves on the 
ground. Its lair is a nest which contains two 
baby white beasts watched over by a gargan 
tuan mother (128 hit points). 

White beast babies (white apes)(2): AC 6; 
HD 4; hp 18; MV 120'(40'); #AT 2 

claws; D 1-4/1-4; Save F2; ML 7; AL N; 
XP7 5 

The babies defend themselves but not their 
parents or each other. The white beast family 
does not retreat from its nest. The nest also 
contains the baby's toys; one ruby worth 
1,000 gp, one jewel-decorated native rattle 
worth 1,800 gp, and one crystal ball with 
ESP. The apes do not know how to use the 
magic item and do not realize the toys' val 
ues. The babies are not likely to give up their 
toys without a fight, however. 

10 FORBIDDEN RIVER OUTPOST 

This cleric outpost seems identical to the 
other outposts. The front gate stands wide 
open, and there is no sign of activity. 


If the characters enter the outpost, read the 
following: 

The outpost is wrecked and seems 
deserted. Large, muddy ape-like foot 
prints lead from the gatehouse to a small 
room in the back of the temple. Scratch 
marks dig deep into the door. 

If the characters follow the footprints, they 
lead to room C2, which is locked. They can 
hear muffled sounds from within. If they 
manage to get the door open, they find a 
robed cleric on the floor, bound and gagged. 
He explains that he is the prior of this out 
post. He claims it was overrun by a Chaotic 
Brotherhood from Slagovich who claim to be 
Lawful. All the natives in the area were 
forced to flee as were the rest of the clerics. 
They tied him up and left him here to die. 
The Chaotic Brotherhood seized all the gold 
and the ships from this outpost. 

If the characters ask him about the 
scratches in the door, he says he heard some 
type of creature trying to get in the day 
before, but it has not returned. 

If the characters remain in the'outpost for 
more than 4 rounds, a gargantuan white ape 
enters the outpost and attacks. 

Gargantuan white ape: AC 6; HD 32; hp 
144; MV 240'(80'); #AT 2 claws; D 4-16/ 
4-16; Save F16; ML 11; AL N; XP 5,250 

The white ape heads directly for the prior. 
If the characters do not defend the cleric, the 
ape grabs him and flees with the screaming 
figure. He will attack no others as long as he 
has the cleric. 

FLASH FLOOD 

If the characters travel north on the For 
bidden River, they find nothing of interest, 
but encounter the following when they are 
about 75 miles up the river. 

The rushing sound of churning water 
roars increasingly louder from upstream. 
Suddenly, a crest of water four feet high 
rolls into view bearing downriver. It car 
ries large, heavy logs and green plant 
debris with it. 

The water moves downriver at a rate of 120 
feet per round. The flood is caused by distant 
thunderstorms upstream. Characters aboard 
a vessel suffer the least damage by turning 
their bow directly into the wave. This causes 
only 1-6 points of damage to the hull. If the 
characters turn the bow from straight 


upstream or attempt to reach shore, they are 
hit amidship by crushing logs which cause 3- 
18 points of damage to the hull. 

Vessels moored along the shore suffer 2-12 
points of damage to the hull. There is a 25% 
chance of crew and supplies on deck being 
knocked overboard into the flood and carried 
along with the crest. Anyone in the water suf 
fers 3-12 points of damage from the debris is 
carried along until they begin swimming 
against the current or leave the water in some 
manner. Anyone on shore avoids 1-4 points 
of damage by being more than four feet above 
river level. 

11. EGG-LAYING GROUND 
(DM Map 3H) 

If the characters sail around Safe Harbor 
peninsula, they can spot the egg-laying 
grounds of the tortles on the small peninsula 
closing off Safe Harbor. 

Solitary sand dunes, the dried carcasses of 
creatures which have crawled here to die, 
utter silence, and rocks shaped only by 
windblown sand alert the senses to hidden 
dangers. Scattered among the rocks at the 
base of nearby hills are roofless com 
pounds with six-foot-high walls built of 
piled rock. The solitary entrances to the 
compounds are blocked with weather 
worn logs. 

The 16 fortresses protect the tortles' egg- 
laying grounds. Females lay 10-40 eggs in the 
sand at a time. The white eggs hatch three 
months later. Armorers can fashion light 
weight plate mail (AC 1) from 25 fresh egg 
shells. Twenty-two eggs lie unguarded in the 
sand. 

ORC VILLAGE 

If the characters land on one of the Trident 
Islands, they discover an ore village. The 
other two islands are uninhabited. 

In the distance a conical thatched village 
roof rises 25 feet above the ground. Smoke 
rises from a 20-foot-diameter circular hole 
in the 50-foot-diameter roof. A palisade of 
vertical logs 10 feet high surrounds the 
roofed structure. Brush and logs cover the 
entrance to the palisade. Small garden 
patches outside the palisade grow various 
food crops. 

If the characters approach the village nois 
ily or disturb the brush blocking the 
entrance, village monsters begin to growl. 


12 





















PLAYER S HANDOUT 



















The 

Savage 

Coast 
















THE ADVENTURE 


Two to twelve ores approach, armed with 
spears, preceded by four ogres and a troll. If 
the characters are aggressive or sneak past 
the palisade into the village, the four ogres 
attack followed by the troll and 72 ores. If the 
characters throw down their weapons or 
speak on friendly terms in Common, the 
monsters meet them with lowered weapons 
and welcome them into their village. Once 
inside, the monsters surround and attack 
them. There are 72 adult ores armed with 
spears led by a chieftain, 20 non-combatant 
whelps, four ogres and one troll. 

The ores have no treasure. 

Troll: AC 4; HD 6 + 3*; MV 120'(40'); 
#AT 2 claws/1 bite; D 1-6/1-6/1-10; Save 
F6; ML 10 (8); AL C; XP 650 

Ogres (4): AC 5; HD 4+ 1; hp 33, 29, 25, 
21; MV 90'(30'); #AT 1 club; D 2-6; 
Save F4; ML 10; AL C; XP 125 

Ore chieftain: AC 6; HD 1; hp 8; MV 
90'(30'); #AT 1 spear; D 2-7; Save FI; 
ML 8; AL C; XP 10 

Ores (72): AC 6; HD 1; hp 1-8; MV 
90'(30'); #AT 1 spear; D 1-6; Save FI; 
ML 6 or 8 (with chieftain); AL C; XP 10 

12. GOLD CAMP 

One hundred miles down this river lies a 
small camp. Three tents are pitched near 
the shoreline of this shallow part of the 
river. Several natives in the water pan 
while a cleric on shore looks on. A small 
ship is anchored in the river to the north. 

The natives in the water are panning for 
gold. If the party manages to surprise the 
natives, they will fight, but the cleric will cast 
a hold person spell and escape if he can. 

Warriors (5): AC 8; HD 2-1; hp 8; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 bow; D 1-6 + poison; 
Save F2; ML 7; AL Any; XP 20 

Vicar: AC 9; HD C4; hp 14; #AT 1; D 1-6; 
MV 120'(40'); Save C4; ML 6; AL L; 
XP 75 

Inside the tents are four barrels filled with 
gold nuggets and dust. The barrels are worth 
200 gp each. 

13. PHANATON SETTLEMENT 
(DM Map 3E) 

In the trees ahead, halfling-sized creatures 
which look like a cross between a monkey 
and a raccoon glide from branch to 


branch. Wood chips, dry leaves, and nut 
shells crackel beneath your feet. The faint 
aroma of horses floats in the air. Alerted, the 
furry creatures rapidly climb out of sight. 

The phanaton settlement is hidden 50 feet 
off the ground in the trees. The settlement 
cannot be seen from the ground, and any 
creature other than a phanaton must be 
within 20 feet of the settlement to distinguish 
it from the surrounding greenery. 

The clan war chief and seven bodyguards 
climb and glide down to meet all visitors. If 
the visitors are open and friendly, the war 
chief orders a rope ladder to be lowered 
through the trap door for the visitors to 
climb. If the visitors are hostile, the subchiefs 
bodyguard, the war chief, and the war chiefs 
bodyguard glide down to defend the settle 
ment. If they have to, the subchief and the 
adult remainder of the settlement, including 
the warrior's mates, defend the platforms. 

Subchief: AC 6; HD 6; hp 30; MV 
90'(30'); gliding 150'(50'); #AT 1; D 2- 
7; Save F6 + 2; ML 7; AL L; XP 275 

War chief and subchief bodyguard (5): AC 
6; HD 3; hp 15; MV 90'(30'), gliding 
150'(50'); #AT 1; D 1-6; Save F3 + 2; 
ML 7; AL L; XP 35 each 

War chiefbodyguard (7): AC 6; HD 2; hp 9; 
MV 90'(30'), gliding 150'(50'); #AT 1; 
D 1-6; Save F2 + 2; ML 7; AL L; XP 20 

Adult males (11) and mates (19): AC 7; HD 
1-1; hp 4; MV 90'(30'), gliding 
150'(50'); #AT 1; D 1-6; Save FI + 2; 
ML 7; AL L; XP 5 each 

The settlement consists of five wooden 
platforms built between several large trees. 
Each platform is supported from below by 
wooden braces and from above by a web of 
knotted ropes. 

A number of huts, varying in size, are built 
on each platform, except one. A safety rail runs 
along the platform's edges. The platforms are 
connected by a series of rope bridges for the 
young and infirm. Guests usually sleep on the 
platform with the solitary hut. 

In each of the 19 huts, there is usually a 
family of four phanatons; two adults and two 
young. Recently the tribal subchief and his 
bodyguard came to visit. 

The phanatons have a small corral of 
horses hidden about 100 feet from their 
camp. The phanatons will sell them to the 
characters for 100 gp each if asked. 

The subchief and his followers have little to 
offer adventurers except rations. They aid 


Lawful adventurers traveling through the 
Forbidden Highlands and attempt to direct 
the party to the lost city of Risilvar. 

CRUSHED SHIP 

If the characters follow the river to the end, 
they discover a dry and desolate desert can 
yon carved by the river that once reached that 
far. If the characters wish to go further, they 
must walk or ride their mounts through this 
canyon. Four miles into the canyon, they dis 
cover an abandoned ship. 

Twenty feet above the valley floor on a 
narrow ledge lies a jumble of curved 
wooden planks and heavy beams. The 
area is peppered with large lion tracks. 

The wood is the crushed remains of a large 
sailing ship which belonged to Akobaan the 
gold merchant. Its hull was crushed against a 
riverbank by a floating island. The ship sank 
fairly intact with its crew and trading supplies 
aboard. Following an earthquake, the river's 
course changed, stranding the ship high and 
dry. 

The hull is now the lair of four Dragonnes. 
One Dragonne pokes its large lion head out 
from behind the ship's bow when the charac 
ters are 120 feet away. When the characters 
get closer than 120 feet to the Dragonne, it 
roars. One round later, another Dragonne's 
head appears from behind the ship's stern. 
One round later, the two attack and two more 
appear in their places. One round later all 
four Dragonnes roar simultaneously. 

Dragonnes (4): AC 3; HD 8*; hp 64, 56, 48, 
40; MV 150'(50'); #AT 2 claws/1 bite or 
roar; D 1-6/1-6/4-24 or roar; Save F8; 
ML 8; AL N; XP 1,200 each 

The ship's hold contains both trade items 
and Dragonnes' hoards. Treasure includes 10 
silver arrowheads worth 4 gp each, a silver 
dagger blade worth 27 gp, 3,600 cp, 5,300 sp, 
2,500 ep, 1,250 gp, a topaz worth 500 gp, 
four jewel-encrusted necklaces worth 800 gp 
each, and a locked bronze box sealed with 
wax. The box is worth 100 cp. 

Inside the sealed box is the preserved log 
book of Akobaan the merchant. The log con 
tains a map of the Bayou. The center of the 
area is marked with the word "treas." 

14. LOST CITY OF RISILVAR 

A. ARCH 

A 20-foot-tall carved stone arch straddles 
a 15-foot-wide street. A locked greenish- 


21 




THE ADVENTURE 


brown gate, which opens in the middle, 
blocks this arch. The gate halves are made 
of metal bars between which a man-sized 
creature may not pass. The gate hinges 
are fastened into the stone on each side of 
the arch. 

The lock may be picked and the heavy gate 
opened, but nothing special happens. The 
bars may be bent by a character with a 
strength of 17 or greater to allow passage. If 
the hinges are detached form the stone, or if 
the dark corrosion is somehow scratched 
from the gates by force, a copper-colored 
base metal appears. Each gate half is made of 
pure copper, weighs 1,100 pounds, and is 
worth 11,000 cp. 

B. BRICK PILLAR 

There are two upright brick pillars denoted 
by B1 and B2. 

This 30-foot-high square brick pillar sup 
ports a motionless human-sized figure 
standing on top. Brick-sized indented toe 
holds spiral around the pillar once. 

The toeholds allowed the ancient builders 
to maintain the hero statues on the pillar top. 
If a character attempts to climb the pedestal, 
he must make one climbing check against 
their Dexterity. Roll ld20. If the value is less 
than or equal to the character's Dexterity, he 
climbs the pillar safely. If the value is greater 
than the character's Dexterity, he falls 15 feet 
onto the paved street. 

You sense you are being watched. Sud 
denly, the arms of the figure on the top of 
the pedestal begin to move. 

Enchanter: AC 9; HD 5; hp 13; #AT 1; D 1- 

4 by dagger; MV 120'(40'); Save MU5; 
ML 9; ALC; XP 175 

Spells: magic missile, shield, detect invisi 
ble, levitate, fire ball 

When the characters are within 20 feet of 
the enchanter, she casts a fire ball at them. 
When the characters are within 10 feet, she 
casts a magic missile. If the characters come 
within five feet, she casts a levitate spell on 
herself and rises above the area. 

C. STONE PEDESTAL 

There are two upright stone pedestals 
denoted by Cl, and C2. 


This 20-foot-high round stone pedestal 
supports a motionless human-sized figure 
standing on top of a flat slab. The pedestal 
is of polished stone and has no toeholds. 
Suddenly, the arms of the figure on the 
pedestal begin to move. 

The figure is a warlock guarding the area. 
He carries no personal treasure. 

Warlock: AC 9; HD 5; hp 15; #AT 1; D 1-4 
by dagger; MV 120'(40'); Save MU5; 
ML 10; ALC; XP 275 

Spells: charm person, read magic, detect 
invisible, invisibility, fly, lightning bolt 

When the characters are within 20 feet of 
the pedestal, he casts a lightning bolt at them. 
When the characters begin to attack, he casts 
a fly spell on himself and flies to the temple 
top or another pillar to continue the battle. 

D. UNDAMAGED BUILDINGS 

There are six undamaged buildings. One 
structure is empty (DM's choice). 

A few of the city's buildings have escaped 
devastation. These brick structures have 
undamaged walls and ceilings. None of 
their wooden doors remain. 


E. SKULL WALL 

This wall is not made of brick. Thousands 
of human skulls have been stacked and 
mortared together to form this 10-foot 
wall. Suddenly, a multi-colored mist rises 
from the wall top. Floating within the mist 
is a giant-sized human skull. Around each 
end of the wall four skeletons attack with 
spears. 

The skulls in the wall are from captured 
warriors who were sacrificed in the pyramid 
temple. 

The creature is a sacrol which is guarding 
the step pyramid staircase. It remains 15 feet 
above the ground until all its controlled skele 
tons are destroyed. If this happens, the sacrol 
descends and attacks the nearest two charac 
ters. The skeletons are those of warriors who 
died as slaves. 

Sacrol* (1): AC 5; HD 8; hp 48; MV 
180'(60');#AT1 touch + 1 choke (x2);D 
level drain/2-8; Save F8; ML 12; AL C; 
XP 1,200 

Skeletons (4): AC 7; HD 1; MV 60'(20'); 


#AT 1; D By weapon; Save FI; ML 12; 
ALC; XP 10 each 

When in combat with the sacrol, a magic 
weapon is needed to hit. 

The mist is the sacrol's body. It attacks 
with two rope-like extensions. The sacrol is 
able to attack up to two different targets in a 
round, but no target more than once per 
round. A hit drains one level of experience, 
while the mist coils around the throat choking 
the victim. The choking does not drain fu-- 
ther levels, but does 2-8 points of damage 
until either the sacrol or the victim is dead. 
The sacrol is only struck by magic or silver. A 
sacrol may create and control undead as in an 
animate dead spell, controlling up to 8 hit 
dice of creatures. These undead must be the 
same creature type in life as the sacrol. The 
sacrol may be turned by a cleric as if it is a 
spectre. The sacrol speaks Common and the 
language of the creature type it was in life, 
Dravish. If the characters ask the sacrol what 
it wants, it tells them to leave the city imme 
diately. If they leave DM Map 4, the sacrol 
stops attacking. Neither the sacrol nor its 
controlled skeletons have any treasure. 

F. PYRAMID STEPS 

A magnificent, almost magical golden pyra 
mid stands gleaming before your party. 
Except for the stone stairs, the entire struc 
ture is formed of golden levels that lead to a 
shimmering temple at the top. 

A stone statue of an ancient warrior 
stands on each corner of each of three 
levels. The pyramid levels are 10 feet, 20 
feet, and 30 feet above the street level. 

The pyramid steps are three 10-foot-high 
levels of stone covered with a gold veneer. A 
stone staircase climbs the pyramid's south side. 

As the characters reach each pyramid 
level, either by climbing the steps or ascend 
ing the staircase, the four stone statues on the 
level turn to attack them. They are actually 
living rock statues that guard the temple. The 
statues have no treasure themselves. 

Living rock statues (12): AC 4; HD 5*; hp 
32 each; MV 60'(20'); #AT 2; D 2-12/2- 
12; Save F5; ML 11; ALC; XP 300 

G. PYRAMID TOP 

The flat pyramid top is 40 feet above the 
street level. An ornately-carved stone 
building stands in the center of the pyra 
mid top, its door facing the stone stairway 
to the south. Four rusty metal statues 


22 




THE ADVENTURE 




















THE ADVENTURE 


of ancient warriors stand on the corners of 
the pyramid top. 

When the characters reach the pyramid 
top, the four rusty statues turn to attack 
them. They are actually living iron statues 
that guard the temple. The statues have no 
treasure themselves. 

Living iron statues (4): AC 2; HD 4*; hp 32, 
28, 24, 20; MV 30'(10'); #AT 2; D 1-8/1- 
8 + special; Save F4; ML 11; AL N; XP 
125 

H. TEMPLE 

An ornate stone building stands atop the 
pyramid. An open door to the building 
faces the pyramid's stone staircase. Inside 
the structure is a stone table and two 
three-foot golden statues. 

The stone table is the resting place for a 
magic black wheel of obsidian. The wheel is 
formed from six wedge-shaped pieces of the 
black stone. This three-foot-diameter artifact 
is the Wheel of Infinite Travel. Anyone who 
stands on the wheel and wishes to travel to 
another location they have visited before, is 


instantly transported there. The wheel does 
not go with the wisher. Correct device opera 
tion is only discovered by experimentation. 

The statues, worth 200 gp each, are made 
of gold mixed with another metal. 

If the characters want to stay to remove the 
gold veneer from the stone, it takes them two 
months to completely strip the pyramid. 
They can strip off only 200 gp worth of gold. 

15. CAY-MEN COMPOUND 

The swamp plants break open into a wide 
clearing overgrown with thick grass. A 
space of packed earth, free of grass, rests 
near the center of the clearing. At the mid 
dle of the barren area is a small, unusual 
compound. Packed dirt and woven reeds 
make up the three-foot-high walls of this 
compound with two woven reed gates. Six 
four-foot-high mounds of packed earth lie 
beyond the compound walls. Many one- 
foot-high openings bore into these 
mounds. 

A small group of eight-inch to twelve- 
inch-high creatures stands in the clearing. 
The creatures look like small lizard men. 
Some hold weapons and wear bone and 
feather headdresses. 


This compound is a Cay-men village. The 
players should recognize the location from 
their crude map of the area that indicates 
treasure is at this location. Hidden within the 
maze of tunnels is the treasure the Cay-men 
guard-gold nuggets and fool's gold nuggets. 
The gold and the fool's gold are indistin 
guishable to the Cay-men and the characters. 
Of the 60 nuggets the characters may find, 
only 12 are real gold. The 12 gold nuggets are 
worth only 30 gp each. 

When the Cay-men first spot the charac 
ters, ten of them swarm to the compound 
walls. Each carries three small javelins and a 
long bone dagger. They begin hissing and 
snapping in the characters' direction. If the 
characters stop their advance or make no 
threatening moves, the Cay-men do not 
attack. 

If the characters attack the Cay-men, the 
tiny creatures throw their javelins in a volley 
at two characters. They continue this attack 
until the characters either leave or reach the 
compound walls. Each turn, five armed Cay- 
men come to the wall to help in the defense. 
No more than 20 Cay-men fight on the wall 
at one time. 

Cay-men (30): AC 7; HD 2; hp 9; MV 
90'(30'); #AT 1 bite or weapon; D 1-4 




THE ADVENTURE 


bite, l-6iavelin, 1-6 dagger; Save F2; ML 8; 
AL N; XP 20 

If the characters reach the wall, the Cay- 
men make an orderly retreat to the mounds. 
As they dart into the openings, the Cay-men 
snipe at the characters-throwing a javelin, 
then ducking out of sight to reappear at a dif 
ferent opening. The Cay-men's mounds are a 
maze of tiny 1-foot-high tunnels and 2-foot- 
high chambers. It is possible to seal all the 
mound's entrances. 

If the characters do not attack and continue 
to watch the Cay-men, the creature's shaman 
eventually appears on the wall. This shaman 
speaks a very poor version of Common. Use 
very simple phrases in this conversation, 
forcing the characters to use sign language at 
some points. The shaman wants to know 
what the characters want from them. If the 
characters want food, the Cay-men bring 
worms and snails. The Cay-men will sell half 
their weapons at twice normal prices, but 
supply the characters with little else. The 
Cay-men know little about the world outside 
The Bayou. 

Cay-men shaman: AC 6; HD 6; hp 27; MV 
90'(30'); #AT 1 bite or weapon; D 1-4 
bite, l-6javelin, 1-6 dagger; Save F6; ML 
9; ALN; XP 275 

16. SEA VIEW OUTPOST 

Three small ships lie anchored in this bay. 

In the distance you can see an outpost off 
the shoreline. 

If the characters search the boats first, they 
find no natives or clerics. Twelve barrels of 
gold nuggets and dust are stored on each of 
the ships. The barrels of gold are worth 210 
gp each. 

When the characters get closer to the out 
post, they see fine wisps of smoke drifting 
from within the walls. If they examine the 
outpost more closely, they discover it has 
been gutted by fire. Nothing can be salvaged 
from the buildings. 


25 




APPENDIX: OUTPOST INFORMATION 


Outpost timetable and positions 

Each outpost follows a strict schedule of 
sleep, worship, and work. One to four min 
utes before each worship time, the clerics 
gather in the outpost temple. Sometimes cler 
ics are excused form worship for special stud 
ies, work, or as punishment. Any exceptions 
to the following timetable may occur when 
unexpected guests are present. 

TABLE 1 

OUTPOST TIMETABLE 


Time 

Activity 

Midnight 

Worship in temple 

1:00 a.m. 

Back to bed 

6:00 a.m. 

Worship in temple 

6:30 a.m. 

Breakfast 

7:00 a.m. 

Work 

11:00 a.m. 

Worship in temple 

12:00 noon 

Dinner 

12:30 p.m. 

Siesta 

1:00 p.m. 

Worship in temple 

1:30 p.m. 

Work 

5:30 p.m. 

Worship in temple 

6:00 p.m. 

Supper 

7:00 p.m. 

Worship in temple 

8:30 p.m. 

To bed 


TABLE 2 

OUTPOST POSITIONS 


Official 

Position 

Title 

Level 

Spells 

Known 

Prior 

Patriarch 

9 

1-11 

Sub-prior, Bursar 

Lama 

8 

1-9 

Hostillar, Cellarer Bishop 

7 

1-7 

Almoner, 

Chamberlain 

Elder 

6 

1-5 

Sacrist, 

Commoner 

Curate 

5 

1-4 

Dean of Order, 
Precentor 

Vicar 

4 

1-3 

Refectorian, 

Steward 

Chancellor, 

Sub-sacrist 

Priest 

3 

1-2 

Secretary, 

Granator 

Adept 

2 

1 

Novice 

Acolyte 

1 

None 


Cleric spells and statistics 

The Lawful Brotherhood requires members 
to memorize certain spells in a particular 
order. Only the Prior knows all 11 spells. 
Novices have not learned any. 


TABLE 3 
KNOWN SPELLS 

Order of Memorized 

Spell Spell 

1 Level 1: cure light wounds 

2 Level 1: light 

3 Level 2: bless 

4 Level 2: hold person 

5 Level 3: continual light 

6 Level 1: protection from evil 

7 Level 3: cure disease 

8 Level 2: silence 15' radius 

9 Level 4: cure serious wounds 

10 Level 3: remove curse 

11 Level 4: protection from evil 10 ' 

radius 


All Lawful Brotherhood clerics with the same 
title have one of the following sets of statistics 
and the spells listed on Table 10. 

Patriarch: AC9; HD 9; hp 52; /AT l;Dl-6; 
MV 120'(40'); Save C9; ML 11; AL L; 
XP900 

Lama: AC 9; HD 8; hp 48; HAT 1; Dl-6; 
MV 120'(40'); Save C8; ML 10; AL L; 
XP650 

Bishop: AC 9; HD 7; hp 45; /AT 1; D 1-6; 
MV 120'(40'); Save C7; ML 9; AL L; 
XP450 

Elder: AC 9; HD 6; hp 41; /AT 1; D 1-6; 
MV 120'(40'); Save C6; ML 8; AL L; 
XP275 

Curate: AC 9; HD 5; hp 35; /AT 1; D 1-6; 
MV 120'(40'); Save C5; ML 7; AL L; 
XP 175 

Vicar: AC 9; HD 4; hp 28; /AT 1; D 1-6; 
MV 120'(40'); Save C4; ML 6; AL L; 
XP75 

Priest: AC 9; HD 3; hp 21; /AT 1; D 1-6; 
MV 120'(40'); Save C3; ML 5; AL L; 
XP35 

Adept: AC 9; HD 2; hp 12; /AT 1; D 1-6; 
MV 120'(40'); Save C2; ML 4; AL L; 
XP20 

Acolyte: AC 9; HD 1; hp 6; /AT 1; D 1-6; 
MV 120'(40'); Save Cl; ML 3; AL L; 
XP 10 


26 





APPENDIX: MONSTERS 


Amber Lotus Flower (X2) 

Armor Class: 9 
Hit Dice: 1/2 
Move: O' 

Attacks: 1 spray 
Damage: 2-12 
No. Appearing: 1 
Save As: Normal Man 
Morale: 12 
Treasure Type: Nil 
Alignment: Neutral 
XP value: 6 

Amber lotus flowers look like golden water 
lilies the size of sunflowers. When a creature 
approaches within 10 feet, the blossoms open 
and spray a 40-foot by 40-foot cloud of pol 
len. Any individual within the affected area 
must save vs. Spells or fall asleep for 4-16 
turns. The flowers can spray a fresh burst of 
pollen every 3-12 rounds. 


Amoeba, Giant (X2) 

Armor Class: 9 
Hit Dice: 10-15 
Move: 30'(10') 

Attacks: 1 

Damage: 2-12 

No. Appearing: 1 

Save As: Fighter 7 

Morale: 10 

Treasure Type: Nil 

Alignment: Neutral 

XP value: 900, 1,100, or 1,350 

Giant amoeba are 30-foot-wide single-celled 
animals. Except for the 1-foot-wide gray 
nucleus, an amoeba is translucent. If the 
nucleus is hidden or disguised, the amoeba 
will be practically invisible and able to attack 
with surprise. Giant amoeba attack first by 
enveloping victims, then secreting an acid to 
digest them. 


Cay-men (AC2) 

Armor Class: 7 
Hit Dice: 2 
Move: 90'(30') 

Attacks: 1 bite or weapon 
Damage: 1-4 or by weapon 
No. Appearing: 0 (10-60) 

Save As: Fighter 1 
Morale: 8 
Treasure Type: K 
Alignment: Neutral 
XP value: 20 

Cay-men are small, intelligent, reptilian 
humanoids. They are related to lizard men. 


although they are much smaller (standing no 
more than 1 foot high) and much more intelli 
gent. Cay-men fashion weapons, build vil 
lages, and make their own traditions. Some 
wear bone and feather headdresses. They can 
also speak Common, their own tongue, their 
alignment language, and sometimes the lan 
guages of other creatures of the area. They 
are not warlike; they usually fight only for 
defense, or for some necessary gain (territory 
or food sources). They are quick and clever. 

Cay-men know they are not suited to fight 
ing; they prefer to make quick attacks and get 
to cover before the enemy can respond. 

All cay-men villages are led by a shaman. 
These shamans live much longer than normal 
cay-men. When the shaman is present, the 
morale of all cay-men is increased by 1. 

Decapus, Marine (B3) 

Armor Class: 5 
Hit Dice: 4 
Move: 3'( 1 ') 

Attacks: 10 tentacles 
Damage: 1-6 each 
Save: Fighter 2 
Morale: 9 
Alignment: Chaotic 
Treasure Type: C 
XP value: 75 


Dragonne Monster 

Armor Class: 3 
Hit Dice: 8* 

Move: 150'(50') 

Attacks: 2 claws/1 bite or roar 
Damage: 1-6/1-6/4-24 or roar 
No. Appearing: 1 (1-4) 

Save As: Fighter 8 
Morale: 8 
Treasure Type: E 
Alignment: Neutral 
XP value: 1,200 

The Dragonne has the head of a lion and the 
body of a small gold dragon. It fights with its 
claws and bite, but its greatest weapon is its 
fearsome roar. 

Any character within 120 feet of a Dra 
gonne when it roars must make a saving 
throw vs. Dragon Breath or flee in fear for 2 
rounds. The Dragonne's roar deafens any 
creatures within 30 feet. Deafened creatures 
suffer a -2 penalty to their hit rolls for 2d6 
rounds. Dragonnes can roar once every 3 
rounds. Anyone who stays within 30 feet of a 
Dragonne after it roars again does not suffer 
any additional hit roll penalty, but he may 
suffer the original penalty for up to 12 
rounds. The Dragonne cannot bite in the 
same round it roars. 


The marine decapus has 10-foot-long brown 
tentacles and a 4-foot spherical hairy green 
body. The creature has a horrible mouth with 
long yellow teeth and foul breath. 


Dog, Normal 

Armor Class: 7 
Hit Dice: 2 + 2 
Move: 180'(60') 

Attacks: 1 bite 
Damage: 1-6 

No. Appearing: 2-12 (3-18) 
Save As: Fighter 1 
Morale: 6 or 8 
Alignment: Neutral 
Treasure Type: Nil 
XP value: 25 



Dogs are carnivores and hunt in packs. 
Though they prefer wilderness, they may 
occasionally be found in caves. If three or 
fewer dogs are encountered, or if the pack is 
reduced to less than 50% of its original num 
bers, their morale is 6 rather than 8. 


27 





APPENDIX: MONSTERS 


Giant River Serpentweed 

Armor Class: 6 
Hit Dice: 9 per stalk 
Move: O' 

Attacks: 1 bite per stalk 

Damage: 2-12 

No. Appearing: 0(1) 

Save As: Fighter 9 
Morale: 12 
Treasure Type: D 
Alignment: Neutral 
XP value: 900 per stalk 

The giant serpentweed is a flesh-eating plant 
found in bogs and areas of standing water. 
Much of the plant lives underwater, rooted to 
the bog bottom, but has 1-6 stalks that reach 
above the surface. These stalks are thick and 
scaled. Each ends in a digestive sac that 
resembles a toothed mouth. From a distance, 
the stalks resemble giant snakes. 

The stalks normally lie just under the sur 
face of the water. From there, they detect 
vibrations of passing creatures, which they 
then attack. The stalks can attack anything 
within a 20-foot radius of the plant. When a 
stalk loses all of its hit points, it is severed. 
When all the stalks are severed, the plant can 
no longer attack, but the plant itself is not 
dead. The only way to permanently kill a ser 
pentweed is to burn the underwater roots. A 
severed stalk can grow back in 6 months. 

Lupin (X2) 

Armor Class: 6 
Hit Dice: 2 
Move: 120'(40') 

Attacks: 1 weapon 
Damage: 1-8 

No. Appearing: 2-12(5-40) 

Save As: Fighter 2 
Morale: 8 
Treasure Type: C 
Aligment: Lawful 

Lupins are dog-like humanoids. They have 
fur-covered human-like bodies and canine 
heads. They hate werewolves and will attack 
them on sight (knowing a werewolf even in its 
human form). Lupins have a tribal society 
with hereditary rulers. Lupins are often allied 
with humans. In battle, lupins sometimes 
ride trained dire wolves, attacking with a 
mounted lance charge. 


Pagan (X2) 

Armor Class: 6 
Hit Dice: 1 
Move: 120'(40') 

Attacks: 1 weapon 

Damage: 1-6 

No. Appearing: 0 (3-30) 

Save As: Fighter 1 
Morale: 8 
Alignment: Neutral 
Treasure Type: A 
XP value: 10 

Pagans worship the gods and goddesses of 
nature. They follow the teachings of certain 
druids, clerics of nature gods. Pagans prac 
tice seasonal sacrifices which they believe 
help maintain the cycles of the year. They 
sometimes practice human sacrifice. Charac 
ters captured in battles with pagans probably 
will be used as human sacrifices. They hold 
their ceremonies in isolated forest glades and 
grottos. Pagans generally form tribal soci 
eties. They will not be encountered in cities, 
towns, or villages. 

Sacrol* 

Armor Class: 5 
Hit Dice: 8 
Move: 180'(60') 

Attacks: 1 touch 
1 choke(x2) 

Damage: Level drain/2-8 
No. Appearing: 1(1) 

Save As: Fighter 8 
Morale: 12 
Treasure Type: Nil 
Alignment: Chaotic 
XP value: 1,200 

See the LOST CITY OF RISILVAR section 
for a description of this monster. 

Tortle 

Armor Class: 3 
Hit Dice: 4 
Move: 30'( 10') 

Attacks: 2 claws/1 beak or weapon 
Damage: 1-4/1-4/1-6 or by weapon 
No. Appearing: 0 (1-6) 

Save As: Fighter 4 
Morale: 11 
Treasure Type: V 
Alignment: Lawful 
XP value: 75 



28 




Tortles are lawful land dwellers. Adult tortles 
stand 6 feet tall. Although not swimmers, tor- 
ties float and can hold their breath up to 10 
turns. When forced into combat they prefer 
light crossbows with a single quarrel. It is 
common for these heavy 500-pound vegetari 
ans to live alone except half a year prior to 
egg laying when they gather. They are fond of 
draft horse-drawn wagons for rapid travel. 


Snapper 

Armor Class: 5 
Hit Dice: 3 
Move: 30'(10') 

Swimming: 180'(60') 

Attacks: 2 claws/1 beak or weapon 
Damage: 1-6/1 -6/2-8 or by weapon 
No. Appearing: 0(1-20) 

Save As: Fighter 3 
Morale: 9 
Treasure Type: T 
Alignment: Chaotic 
XP value: 35 

Snappers are chaotic saltwater dwellers. 
Adult snappers stand 6 feet tall. Using their 
webbed hands and feet, snappers are able 
swimmers who can hold their breath up to 10 
turns. When forced into combat they prefer 
long bows with a single arrow. It is common 
for these massive 1,000-pound carnivores to 
swim hundreds of miles between feeding and 
egg-laying grounds. 


Strangle Vine 

Armor Class: 9 

Hit Dice: 1 per T square 

Move: O' 

Attacks: 1 
Damage: Special 
Save As: Normal Man 
Morale: 12 
Alignment: Neutral 
XP value: 10 

See SNAKES IN THE TREES for a descrip 
tion of the strangle vine. 


29 




APPENDIX: RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 


OPEN SEA 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

1 A large ship on the horizon sails 
toward your vessel. No crew is visible, but 
the ship is in good repair. A flag of one 
Minrothad Guild waves atop a mast. 

The vessel is a ghost ship. It follows the 
characters until they stop. Then it tries to 
pull alongside. The moment a character 
boards the vessel, 30 skeleton sailors climb 
from below deck armed with swords. If no 
one boards the ghost ship or if the skele 
tons are defeated, the ghost ship vanishes 
after 10 rounds. 

Skeletons (TO): AC 7; HD 1; hp 4 each; MV 
60'(20'); #AT 1; D by weapon; Save FI; 
ML 12; ALC; XP 10 each 

2 A large, lumpy mass of waxy, gray 
ish substance floats by on a piece of drift 
wood. It looks like gray amber. 

This substance is ambergris, a material 
formed in the intestines of sperm whales. 
This lump is weighs as much as Id20 gp, 
but is worth 10 times this much to perfum 
ers or alchemists. 


3 A 3-foot-tall carved wooden figure 
head from a ship drifts past. It is a carving 
of a woman. 

The figurehead is actually a wood golem 
from a wrecked magic-user's ship. 

Wood golem: AC 7; HD 2 + 2*; hp 11; MV 
120'(40'); #AT 1 fist; D 1-8; Save FI; 
ML 12; ALN; XP 35 

4 The bodies of a well-dressed mer 
chant and five sailors drift by. 

If retrieved, the merchant's body has a 
pouch holding 10 gold nuggets worth 10 
gp each and a pearl worth 500 gp. The five 
sailors' bodies are possessed by wights. 
They carry no treasure, but attack when 
brought aboard. 

Wights (5): AC 5; HD 3*; MV 90'(30'); 
#AT 1; D Energy drain; Save F3; ML 12; 
AL C; XP 50 each 

5 Fish, probably frightened by some 
thing in the water, begin leaping into your 
vessel. 


The 2-12 fish are edible and worth 1 nor 
mal ration apiece. Whatever is chasing 
them stays hidden, but audibly collides 
against the vessel's hull causing no dam 
age. 

6 An empty lifeboat under full sail 
blows past. You recognize the skillful 
Empire of Thyatis shipbuilding handi 
work. 

The well-built lifeboat can withstand 15 
points of damage. It contains 10 iron 
rations. 

7 A blood-soaked native canoe made 
of bark floats by. 

The canoe is in good repair and could hold 
one person and 1,000 coins of cargo. 

8 A woman on a raft of logs signals 
you, but does not yell. She holds her 
throat and motions she needs to drink. 

She is actually a zombie, set adrift by ter 
rified natives. If given a container of liq 
uid, she guzzles it down, but refuses to 
speak. 


RIVER 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

1 One large log floats dead ahead. 

If the characters do not change their ves 
sel's course, the log hits, causing 1-10 
points of damage. If the log hits a charac 
ter in the water, it causes 1-20 points of 
damage. There is a 50% chance a canoe, 
lifeboat, raft, or sail boat is capsized. 

2 Wooden floats bob in the current, 
part way across the river. 

The wooden floats support a native fish 
net. The net holds 2-40 fish worth 1 ration 
each. 

3 You hear the quacking of ducks. On 
the water ahead is a flock of water birds. 

The birds are tame and are easily caught 
by net or by hand. There are 5-100 ducks 
worth 1 ration each. 


4 Ahead, clear water wells up from 
below. 

The water is flowing from a submerged 
spring. If the characters do not change 
their vessel's course, it strikes the spring. 
There is a 50% chance a canoe, lifeboat, 
raft, or sail boat is capsized. 

5 Ahead, dark water wells up from 
below. 

The water is flowing over a submerged 
sandbar. If the characters do not change 
their vessel's course, it strikes the sandbar, 
causing ldlO points of damage. The ves 
sel runs aground and remains stuck for at 
least ld6 turns unless the characters push 
or pull the vessel off the sandbar. There is 
a 50% chance a canoe, lifeboat, raft, or 
sail boat is capsized. 

6 Clouds of mosquitos descend on the 
ship, attacking the exposed flesh of your 
party. 


Each character must save vs. Death Ray 
or they are driven to jump into water to 
escape the stinging insects. Fire, smoke, 
ice, cold, or gas drives the mosquitos 
away. If the cloud is not driven off, each 
character must roll their Constitution or 
less or contract malaria. An unfortunate 
victim who is infected begins suffering 
cycles of chills, fever, and sweating within 
1-4 days. The symptoms last ld8 days and 
cause Id4 points of damage per day. 

7 A 30-foot by 40-foot log raft is tied 
against the port bank. It is abandoned. 

The raft has a capacity of 120,000 coins, 
60 hull points, and an Armor Class of 9. It 
can be dismantled and sold for the wood's 
value (3,000 gp). 

8 Something large and dark green 
noisily splashes off the bank into the river. 

Whatever it is, it comes within 10 feet of 
the surface once a round for 10 rounds, 
but does not do any damage. 


30 






PRE-ROLLED CHARACTERS 


Kantik the Bishop 

7th level Bishop 


Strength 

13 

Dexterity 

8 

Intelligence 

9 

Constitution 

10 

Wisdom 

14 

Charisma 

11 

Armor Class 

2 

hit points 

23 


Bonuses and penalties: Hit Roll + 1, Damage 
+ 1, Saving Throw + 1, Missile Fire -1 


Aber Kadra 


6th level Warlock 

Strength 

7 

Dexterity 12 

Intelligence 

15 

Constitution 9 

Wisdom 

11 

Charisma 10 

Armor Class 

8 

hit points 13 

Bonuses and Penalties: 

Saving Throws +1, 

Hit Roll - 

1, Damage 

-1 


Weapons: mace + 1, five vials of holy water, 
holy symbol 

Armor: plate mail and shield 
Magic Item: staff of healing 
Spells: First level; cure light wounds, detect 
magic, light 

Second level; find trap, silence 15' 
radius 

Third level; striking, cure disease 


Bjorn Tofyte 

6th level Dwarf Myrmidon 


Weapons: dagger +1, wand of cold 
Armor: ring ofprotection + 1 
Magic Item: wand of magic detection (10 
charges) 

Spells: First Level; detect magic, charm per 
son 

Second Level; web, ESP 
Third Level; fireball, fly 


Khan Harlan 

6th level Myrmidon 


Strength 

16 

Dexterity 

10 

Intelligence 

7 

Constitution 

14 

Wisdom 

9 

Charisma 

8 

Armor Class 

2 

hit points 

40 


Bonuses: Hit roll + 2, Damage + 2 
Weapons: war hammer + 1; sword; dagger 
Armor: plate mail and shield 


Strength 

14 

Dexterity 

11 

Intelligence 

10 

Constitution 

9 

Wisdom 

9 

Charisma 

12 

Armor Class 

4 

hit points 

30 


Bonuses: Hit Roll + 1, Damage + 1 
Weapons: war hammer +2, hand axe, dag 
ger 

Armor: chain mail and shield 


Magic Item: rope of climbing 


Magic Item: 


Leif Folitum 

5th level Elf Swashbuckler Enchanter 


potion of growth 


Luki Lightfinger 

5th level Cutpurse 


Strength 

13 

Dexterity 

14 

Intelligence 

12 

Constitution 

9 

Wisdom 

8 

Charisma 

11 

Armor Class 

2 

hit points 

18 


Bonuses: Hit Roll + 1, Damage + 1, Missile 
Fire + 1 

Weapons: sword + 1, dagger, bow and 20 
arrows 

Armor: plate mail and shield 
Magic Item: elven cloak 

Spells: First Level; sleep, magic missile 
Second Level; invisibility, knock 
Third Level; haste 


Strength 

10 

Dexterity 

15 

Intelligence 

U 

Constitution 

10 

Wisdom 

8 

Charisma 

10 

Armor Class 

6 

hit points 

12 


Bonus: Missile Fire + 1 
Weapons: dagger +2, sword 
Armor: leather armor 
Thief Abilities: 


Open Locks 

35% 

Climb Walls 

91% 

Remove Traps 

30% 

Hide in 


Pick Pockets 

40% 

Shadows 

30% 

Move Silently 

40% 

Hear Noise 

m 


31 

















Expert Game Adventure 


The Savage Coast 

Merle and Jackie Rasmussen, and Anne C. Gray 










What sends you adventuring deep into 
unknown lands, across dark waters, around 

The Savage Coast? Adventure? The sincere 
desire to help others? Or greed? 


Cartographers Guild members tell of lost cities 
and hidden treasures. Sailors tell of menacing 
beasts and cannibals to the west. They tell of 
savages along the shores who use gold nug 
gets for fishing weights. They also tell of great 
mounds of gold that collect at river mouths. 

.-  

You must decide the greater lure; the safety of 

Slagovich or the glimmer of gold along The 

Savage Coast. 

t ' ;#< 

-  , -  

This adventure includes a map which expands 
the D&D' game world, and a special expanded 
monsters section. 

v - i 

This adventure is for use with the DUNGEONS & 

DRAGONS' rules, and cannot be played without 
the D&D' Basic and Expert Sets produced by 

TSR, Inc. 

'I*. : ", 

* 1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in (J.S.A. 

. 

TSR. Inc. TSR UK Ltd. 

POB 756 The Mill, Rathmore Road 

Lake Geneva, Cambridge CB14AD 

Wl 53147 United Kingdom 









9129XXX1401 



0-88038-197-3 

ISBN 394-54545-1TSR0600 


46363 09129 









































