Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09205 DA 4 The Duchy Of Ten"
See other formats
A BLACKMOOR(tm) Adventure For Character Levels 10-14 


Expert Game Adventure 


The Duchy of Ten 


by David J. Ritchie 


. Iw i mt i j 


& ' J ¦ 1 VV 

k. 

rvv § i 

kVi? J 

wBfflZimkx W ,' 

k m j 


. L u ( MMA rr (A .*Y| / 



TSR, Inc. 

PNOOUCTft or YOU* IMAQI NATION 


DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. DSD. BLACKMOOR. PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION, and the TSR logo are 
trademarks owned by TSR. Inc. 

















Expert Game Adventure 


THE DUCHY OF TEN 

By David James Ritchie 








































DM BACKGROUND 


Stop! If you are participating in this 
module as a player, read no further. 

This module is the fourth in a series of 
adventures set in the mythical kingdom 
of Blackmoor. Blackmoor was the first 
campaign setting ever created for use in a 
fantasy role-playing game. The Black 
moor presented in this module is a sub 
stantially revised and expanded setting 
based on material developed for that 
venerable campaign. In view of this fact, 
it is perhaps fitting to note that the 
events, places, and characters discussed 
in Blackmoor exist some 3000 years before 
those described in any other D&D(r) fan 
tasy role-playing game material. 

The adventure in this module is 
designed for a party of five to eight player 
characters (PCs) of the 10th to 14th levels 
of experience. The party should include 
a balance of character classes since the 
PCs will face many problems, each of 
which may be most easily and effectively 
solved by a character of a different class. 
A number of prerolled characters are 
included for use in the event that there 
aren't enough PCs of the correct levels 
and classes available. 

Read this entire module before play 
ing. There are some plot elements that 
won't be fully developed until late in the 
module, but for which the foundation 
must be laid much earlier. If you are not 
already aware of these elements before 
play begins, you won't be able to plant 
dues or build drama as effectively. 

Study the maps while reading the area 
keys in the module booklet. These keys 
refer to encounter locations by giving the 
number of the map on which the area is 
located followed by the area's number 
(c.g., 2-13). Many keys indude boxed 
information that you should read aloud 
to the players when they enter the area. 
Unboxed information is provided only as 
a guide for you, the DM; it is not read to 
the players. While every effort has been 
made to provide all information needed 
for play, you may want to add extra 
details to the boxed descriptions for 
atmosphere. 

This module uses these abbreviations: 


AC = Armor Class; MV = Movement 
Rate; HD = Hit Dice or Level; hp = 
current hit points; #AT = Number of 
attacks; D = Damage; AL = Align 
ment; F = Fighter; T = Thief; M - 
Magic User; C = Cleric; OL = Open 
Locks; FT - Find Traps; RT = 
Remove Traps; PP " Pick Pockets; 
MS " Move Silently; CW = Climb 
Walls (Sheer Surfaces); HS = Hide in 
Shadows; HN = Hear Noise; cp = cop 
per pieces; sp = silver pieces; gp * gold 
pieces; ep = clectrum pieces; pp = plat 
inum pieces. 

Nonplayer characters (NPCs) are usu 
ally introduced in the text where they are 
most likely to be encountered. When 
introduced, their statistics are shown in 
an abbreviated form with combat and 
movement adjustments already com 
puted. 

And now-welcome to Blackmoor. 

The Kingdom of Blackmoor 

Four millenia before the present age, the 
fabulously rich and powerful Empire of 
Thonia ruled much of the civilized 
world. The northwestern portion of the 
Empire was a rude frontier that Thonian 
generals called the Northern Marches. Tho 
nian scribes, who dealt in bushels of com 
and board feet of timber, not in marches, 
called it the Northlands. Those few poets 
who still wrote on epic and heroic sub 
jects called it the dark and bloody ground. 
But to those who lived there, it was 
simply- the North. 

Still lightly settled after centuries of 
human habitation, the North was an 
area of small baronies and freeholds that 
lived by trade and the exploitation of 
mineral and timber resources. As was to 
be expected of an area still half frontier, 
life there was hard, harder than any 
where else in the Empire, save perhaps 
for the miserable slave-worked planta 
tions of the far south. 

It was also an exceedingly strange 
land. A wild and powerful magic perme 
ated it-a magic that seemed to have its 
source in a peninsula on the northern 
coast where men first settled when they 


came to the North-a place called Black 
moor. Blessed with a good harbor and 
with rich black soil that promised bounti 
ful harvests, Blackmoor became the site 
of the first port-and the first castle-in 
the North. It looked like paradise. It was 
not. 

The wild magic spawned monsters 
such as had not been seen inside the 
Empire's borders in centuries. Worse, it 
also spawned things that had never been 
seen anywhere else before-gibbering 
horrors that killed by night, leaving in 
their wake only smashed timbers and the 
bloody remains of farm families maimed 
in their passing. Nor were monsters the 
only danger. Ores and elves, dwarves 
and halflings already claimed parts of the 
North and would have to be dealt with in 
peace or war. 

Moreover, there were fierce enemies 
on all sides. To the northeast, the cruel 
Skandaharian Raiders set out each year 
to reave along whatever coast seemed 
fattest. To the north was an evil and 
unnatural dominion ruled by a bizarre 
and evil superbeing that called itself the 
Egg of Coot. To the northwest was the dec 
adent Duchy of the Peaks, which count 
ed its wealth in diamonds and slaves. To 
the west was the so-called Duchy of Ten, 
newly independent from the Duchy of 
the Peaks and anxious to expand its 
power. To the southwest were the horse 
men of Peshwah, who feared and hated 
the wild North and all who called it 
home. The Thonian pioneers were sepa 
rated from their foes to west and south by 
a tangled web of rivers and marshes, but 
the sea gave their enemies to northeast, 
northwest and north easy access to their 
coastal settlements. 

The North that seemed so promising 
to diose first setders took much taming 
before it would give up its bounty. It was 
only after many centuries that some 
small measure of civilization began to 
take root there. Then disaster came to 
the Northlands from out of the moun 
tains far to the west. 

The Wrath of the Afridhi 

It began in the mountain fastness called 


2 





DM BACKGROUND 


the Goblin Kush -the Goblin Killer-a 
terrible frozen land whose main crop was 
death. Here dwelt a savage tribe of 
hillmen who survived in the cold high 
mountains only by great hardiness and 
discipline. For untold centuries they 
lived in the Goblin Kush, and for all of 
those centuries they were the despair of 
their neighbors, for they were a warrior 
race whose culture was built on the loot 
ing of the lowlands and the killing of all 
who were not of their kind. 

The Afridhi, they called themselves- 
the Children of Fire. For, in their legends, 
fire is the gift that allowed them to live in 
their high, cold land. Without fire, there 
would have been no Afridhi. And fire 
was the gift of their great god, Zugzul the 
One. Since they credited him with this 
gift, the Afridhi worshipped Zugzul with 
a fervor foreign to most lowland cultures, 
where life was easier and such simple 
gifts were less appreciated. So great was 
the Afridhi awe of their god that they 
made his high priestess (called the Mis 
tress of God) the head of their state and 
accepted her word as law. 

Thus it was that when the new high 
priestess who took the bride name Toska 
Rusa (Rosy Dawn) pronounced that it 
was Zugzul's will that the Afridhi leave 
the mountains and pursue their destiny 
in the lands to the east, the hillmen began 
to move. No undisciplined savages, 
these; they had for long years been sub 
ject to the iron law of Zugzul and his high 
priestess. Thus, while they had the indi 
vidual warrior traits of great courage, 
stamina, and weapon skill found only 
among wild peoples, they also had the 
sense of order and discipline common to 
more civilized troops. This marriage of 
strengths made an unbeatable combina 
tion. 

Once they exerted their full strength in 
die cause of conquest, it took the Afridhi 
just three years to utterly destroy the 
valemen whose presence blocked their 
march to the east. The first year was 
spent in quickly overruning their settle 
ments and smashing their armies. The 
second year was used to hunt down and 
slaughter those who survived the first 
year's campaign. The third year was 


spent in practicing the heavy infantry 
tactics which captured valemen said they 
used against the horsemen who often 
raided them from the plains to the east. 

At the end of the third year, when 
Toska Rusa was sure that her Afridhi 
spearmen could duplicate the winning 
tactics of the valemen, they left the hill 
country behind and began their trek 
across the Plains of Hak. Some 170,000 
men, women, and children made that 
trek. Behind them, the remnants of the 
valemen were organized to act as a com 
missary for the migrating Afridhi. The 
Vales , as it was named, became the first 
province in the new Afridhi Empire. 

It took the Afridhi two years to fight 
their way across the plains. And again 
their army changed. At first, it had been 
mosdy light foot, bowmen, and slingers. 
Then, in the land of the valemen, heavy 
foot were added. Now, during the fight 
ing on the open plains, the ever adapt 
able Afridhi replaced their sturdy 
mountain ponies with riding horses and 
developed a disciplined light cavalry. 
While never quite as skilled as the 
Peshwah horsemen who fought them, 
they were good enough to keep the 
Peshwah away from their foot (which 
was, after all, their purpose). By the time 
the Afridhi reached their next victim, 
they had a sophisticated army, indeed. 

Behind them was a well-organized 
supply base, controlled by an efficient 
military government. A string of defend 
ed outposts secured a line of communica 
tions to this base. Between the outposts 
patrolled small troops of light cavalry 
who harried and harrassed the former 
occupants of the plains so as to keep them 
always off balance. At the eastern end of 
this string of outposts was a scries of for 
tified camps where the Afridhi army 
rested and again reorganized in prepara 
tion for its most difficult campaign. 

The Afridhis' third victim was the 
Duchy of Ten, a. military power far differ 
ent from anything encountered before. 
Here were entire companies of common 
men-at-arms who fought in the chain 
mail reserved by the Afridhi only for 
their elite infantry. Here were other men 
who fought in heavy plate armor on 


great, shaggy horses that killed and 
maimed with the same glee as their 
riders. The Afridhi should have lost their 
war against these men. But the Duchy's 
military commanders were overconfi 
dent. They did not expect the Afridhi 
infantry to stand and fight when charged 
by heavy cavalry. They did not expect 
the Afridhi bowmen to be so accurate, 
nor so stubborn. They certainly did not 
expect the Afridhi light horse to harry 
them so effectively once they were locked 
in combat with the infantry. 

After winning their first two batdes, 
the Afridhi had their own companies of 
heavy plate-armored horse. The armor 
came from the bodies of their former 
foes; the horses were the spoils of the ene 
my camp. Captured officers of the 
Duchy's army trained the companies 
and advised their commanders, under 
pain of death for any mistakes. Thereaf 
ter, the Duchy's army was afraid to meet 
the Afridhi in the field. Instead, it locked 
itself up in casdes and walled towns. This 
bothered the Afridhi not at all. They sim 
ply captured engineers who taught them 
the arts of siege. 

It took the Afridhi seven years to win 
their war against the Duchy. It was seven 
years' education in a hard school. But 
the Afridhi were good students. When 
the Duchy's last stronghold finally sur 
rendered and the land was organized 
into the third province of the Afridhi 
Empire, their army was the equal of any 
in or on the borders ofThonia. Fearful of 
its might, the Duchess of the Peaks had 
concluded a treaty with Toska Rusa even 
before Ten was finally subdued. With her 
flank thus secured, the high priestess 
(and by now accomplished general) cast 
her eyes on her next target to the east, the 
ultimate goal of this 12-year march, the 
Thonian Empire. 

This was the goal that had burned in 
Toska Rusa's breast since the night she 
first became the Mistress of God-the 
night when Zugzul, as her wedding gift, 
showed her the warm green empire by 
the sea that he said it would be the 
Afridhi destiny to rule. For 12 years she 
had led her people toward an end they 
could not see. Now the rich lands of Tho- 


3 


DM BACKGROUND 


nia swam before their eyes. And the 
Afridhi hungered. 

But this land, like the Goblin Kush, 
bred a hard and practical type of man. So 
when the Afridhi began their first incur 
sions against Thonia, testing the waters 
before taking their final great plunge into 
the game of empire, the leaders of the 
North made preparations to entrap and 
destroy the barbarians. 

For five long years, while the Afridhi 
gobbled the Duchy of Ten, the leaders of 
the North had begged the Empire to deal 
with the Afridhi menace. For five long 
years, the decadent Thonian Emperor 
Iyx had refused to send an army or to 
allow the Northern Barons to aid their 
old enemies in the Duchy of Ten against 
the clear threat from the west. Finally, 
when the Duchy was ground under the 
Afridhi boot and Toska Rusa was almost 
ready to invade Thonia, the barons act 
ed. Under the leadership of Uther Anda- 
har, they raised a rebellion against the 
Emperor. It was as a result of this so- 
called Great Rebellion that the realm of 
Blackmoor came into being-with Uther 
Andahar as its first king. 

While the Northern Barons were still 
sorting out their problems with Thonia 
and before they were in open rebellion, 
the Afridhi faced the first rebellion 
against their harsh rule inside the Duchy 
of Ten. Here, for the first time the 
hillmen had encountered a culture far 
more sophisticated than their own. The 
simple matriarchal theocracy that had 
been their strength so far was unsuited to 
the needs of this newly subjugated peo 
ple. Then too, the Afridhi mind found it 
hard to grasp the alien nature of Tinian 
culture. 

Ruled by female judges called Sisters of 
Fire, the Afridhi could not begin to con 
template the male-dominated Tenian 
society. Accustomed from birth to the 
idea that there was no god but Zugzul, 
they were unequipped to handle reli 
gious diversity. Taught to despise a host 
of customs as cardinal sins and capital 
offenses, they could not grasp the fact 
that the Tenians hated them for their 
enforcement of public ''virtue." 

During the first six months after the 


Afridhi conquest, Toska Rusa and the 
Sisters of Fire suppressed the Thonian 
High Church to which 90% of Tenians 
adhered. Tenian churches were turned 
into barracks and stables, and Tenian 
priests were rounded up and executed in 
wholesale lots. By public decree, the wor 
ship of any god but Zugzul became a cap 
ital offense. Nor was this the only new 
capita] crime in the Duchy. Other 
decrees mandated death as the punish 
ment for usury, public drunkenness, 
dancing except on Afridhi religious holi 
days, the creation of secular art, and the 
bearing of arms or armor by Tenians. At 
the same time that these new laws were 
put into force, taxes were raised to a 
crushing level. 

The result was widespread unrest that 
was fed by a concerted Afridhi effort to 
kill all of the Duchy's former leaders and 
prominant citizens. The revolt that 
finally broke out was put down with as 
much viciousness as possible. But it took 
the Afridhi time to break its back. 

When they finally crushed the Tenian 
rebellion and entered Blackmoor, the 
Northern Barons had completed their 
preparations and were able to throw the 
whole of their strength against the 
hillmen. At the Batde of the Neck, the 
Afridhi were outmaneuvered by Uther 
and his generals, and one wing of their 
army was trapped against Lake Temper 
ance and crushed. No less than 10,000 
Afridhi were slaughtered on the field. It 
was a victory that left the forces of the 
Northern Barons scattered and exhaust 
ed, but the Afridhi were so shaken that 
they retired to the west to regroup. 

The Gift of Zugzul 

After their victory at The Neck, the 
Northern Barons made a final attempt to 
seal the breach with Thonia, but were 
rebuffed. Thereafter, Uther was 
crowned king and Blackmoor prepared 
to fight for its existence against the 
Afridhi and Thonian Empires and a host 
of other enemies. The first module in this 
series, DAI (Adventures in Blackmoor ) tells 
how that war was won and relates the sto 
ry of the vile plot that almost cost King 


Uther his throne. DA2 (Temple ojthe Frog) 
tells of the Order of the Frog and how its 
efforts to destabilize Blackmoor were 
defeated by agents of King Uther. DA3 
(The City of the Gods) tells how Uther's 
agents traveled to the Valley of the 
Ancients to seek allies and powerful new 
magic to help Blackmoor meet a renewed 
attempt by its enemies to wage war 
against it. 

While Blackmoor has been occupied 
foiling secret plots and preparing for 
renewed warfare, the Afridhi have been 
gathering their strength and reexamin 
ing their situation. Initially, Toska Rusa 
thought to bypass Blackmoor and push 
on into Thonia by a southerly route. But 
this is not the will of Zugzul, of whom it is 
now time to speak more fully. 

Though the Afridhi worship Zugzul as 
a god, he is in fact something less than 
that. At one time a mortal man, he has 
long since passed from the ken of lesser 
folk to become one of the Immortals. 
These superbeings are described in part 
in the D&D(r) Master Set Rules and in 
full in the D&D(r) Immortals Set Rules. If 
you have those rules, you may want to 
use the material found in them to enrich 
play of this adventure. 

Since Zugzul doesn't actually appear 
during play of this module, an in-depth 
knowledge of the characteristics of 
Immortals is not necessary to play. It is 
sufficient to know that each Immortal 
serves any one of five Spheres of Power 
(Matter, Energy, Time, Thought, or Entro 
py). There is a constant struggle for dom 
inance among the five spheres, and the 
main purpose of each Immortal is to 
increase the influence of his own sphere. 
However, though the Immortals are 
immensely powerful, they do not nor 
mally reveal themselves to mortals and 
seldom interfere direedy in events on the 
Prime Plane. Instead, they prefer to 
work indirectly by influencing mortals to 
act on their behalf. 

Zugzul serves the Sphere of Energy, 
which is closely related to the element of 
fire. His purpose is to create more energy 
and activity. Energy is highly active, 
dynamic, and excited. It seeks to alter 
and transform things, consuming Mat- 


4 




DM BACKGROUND 


ter, slowing Time, and exciting Thought 
to release more Energy. Energy repre 
sents disorder, uniqueness, and the Cha 
otic alignment. 

In keeping with the accepted practice 
of Immortals, Zugzul long ago began to 
influence the Afridhi in indirect ways. 
Initially, he sent dreams to various 
Afridhi suggesting action or revealing 
information that was of benefit to them. 
Later, he began to use these dreams to 
shape a theology that made the Afridhi 
disciplined and strong. The key to that 
theology was the myth that Zugzul was a 
god who had brought life-giving fire to 
the Afridhi. Fire came to be identified 
with the god, and women eventually 
came to be identified with fire. After 
some centuries of dream-sending, 
Zugzul had founded a militant matriar 
chal theocracy that controlled an efficient 
military machine capable of carrying the 
worship of fire to other lands. All that 
was necessary was for Zugzul to loose the 
Afridhi on the world, and the result 
would be a great release of energy, activi 
ty, and chaos. 

And so it happened. For 12 years the 
Afridhi moved east, conquering all who 
stood in their path and upsetting the sta 
ble order of things. Then came the Battle 
of the Neck, and Zugzul found himself 
thwarted by a handful of upstart hedge 
knights and petty barons. Seeing the 
unraveling of his plans, the furious 
Immortal determined to intervene and 
crush Blackmoor. 

Thus it was that one dark and stormy 
night the Mistress of God rose from her 
bed in a waking dream and called for a 
scribe. Since few Afridhi could write, the 
man who answered the call was a 'Ienian, 
one of the host of government officials 
impressed into the service of the Afridhi 
after the conquest. As the thunder rolled 
and boomed in the Vale ofGlenfinan, the 
man recorded with shaking hands the 
words of Toska Rusa. Speaking as if in a 
trance, the Mistress of God set down the 
instructions of Zugzul for the creation of 
a great artifact-a fell device that would 
destroy the foes of the one true god and 
make the Afridhi invincible. 

First, said Zugzul, the Afridhi must go 


into the forbidding wilderness called the 
Barrens of Karsh, a volcanic range of 
hills where dwelt strange monsters. 
There, amid steam vents, lava pits, and 
pools of boiling mud, they would find a 
strange mount of naked rock whose top 
was a shallow bowl. This mount they 
would name Tot Kurram -the Hill ol lhe 
Hammer-and they must cut a passage 
to its very heart. There they would find a 
living volcano in whose fires they would 
forge the artifact that would make them 
great. 

The Well of Souls would be its name. 
Efrect would come to aid in its forging, 
and many powerful spells would be 
woven into it. But the key to its power 
would be the lives that it contained, for 
only by the imprisoning of human souls 
within its structure could the artifact be 
made to work. Hundreds must be 
brought to the forge beneath Tor Kur 
ram and there killed in a ritual that 
would trap their souls. Months must pass 
in the binding of this soul energy into the 
stuff of the Well before, finally, it was 
whole. 

Even before the Well was complete, its 
power would be felt in the world. That 
power would be only a tithe of the power 
of the completed artifact, but it would 
bring fear to the hearts of the enemies of 
the Afridhi. In their terror, they would 
try to unmake the Well-for it is the way 
of such things that they can always be 
unmade. The fires that form can also 
unform. Therefore, for its protection, 
Zugzul would lay upon the Well a bind 
ing prophecy-that it would be unmade 
only by the hand of one not yet born. 

Yet, even with this powerful prophecy 
laid upon its destiny, Zugzul would not 
be quiet in his mind until the Well's 
power was at full flow. Therefore, he 
bade 'Ibska Rusa muster the strength of 
the Afridhi to defend the Well until the 
day of its completion. On that day, 
Zugzul's people would again march 
against Blackmoor -this time to the vic 
tory long promised by their god. 

When loska Rusa had finished speak 
ing the will of Zugzul, she collapsed into 
a deep slumber that continued for three 
days. While she slept, the frightened 


scribe secretly wrote an account of all 
that he had heard and seen and quietly 
gave it into the keeping of a woodcutter 
who sometimes chanced to come upon 
the Brothers of the Greenwood in hidden 
glades within the Wilds of Ten. When 
Toska Rusa awoke, she thought to what 
Zugzul had told her and ordered the slay 
ing of her scribe and all those to whom he 
might have spoken. Thus did she hope to 
preserve the Secret of the Well of Souls 
and how it might be unmade. 

Vain were her precautions. Of those to 
whom the scribe had spoken, all but one 
was found and killed. Only one-a 
woodcutter-was missed. By the time 
that Toska Rusa awoke, he was already 
in the forest. There he gave his message 
to a man dressed all in green, who gave it 
to another of his kind, who gave it to 
another-and so on until, by many 
secret and devious ways, at last the mes 
sage came to one who took it aboard a 
vessel bound for Blackmoor. 

Thus, after a lengthy journey, the by 
now travel-stained and dog-eared mes 
sage came to Blackmoor town in the 
hands of a priest named Gregor Mendi- 
camp, who was also, not incidentally, the 
chief agent of the outlawed Thonian 
High Church inside the Duchy of Ten. 
When he told his story and delivered his 
message to the Bishop of Blackmoor, the 
bishop put the matter in the hands of a 
mild-looking man named Fletcher Wil 
liam. who, as Blackmoor's chief spyrnas- 
ter, was better known to members of the 
realm's Regency Council as The Fetch. 

When The Fetch first read the mes 
sage, he laughed aloud-much to the 
puzzlement of both the priest and the 
bishop. For The Fetch well knew what 
the priest did not, and what the bishop 
had, perhaps, forgotten. Secreted in the 
lower cellar of Blackmoor's Comeback 
Inn, and hidden from the eyes of Black 
moor's enemies, was a temporal 
discontinuity-a gate in time formed by 
the harnessing of the wild magic that per 
meates Blackmoor. Through this gate 
have already come heroes not yet born 
who are even now in the pay of Black 
moor! 


5 


BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 


This adventure begins with a meeting in 
the Comeback Inn at which The Fetch 
recruits the PCs to enter the Duchy of 
Ten and unmake the Well of Souls. How 
ever, before this meeting can take place, 
you must first bring the PCs together in 
the same room of the inn. Each of the 
PCs can arrive at the inn in one of three 
ways, depending on whether you have 
played previous modules in this series 
and how those modules ended. Each 
method of arrival is detailed below in 
THE HEROES OUT OF TIME You 
may have to use more than one method 
to bring everyone together. Once all of 
the PCs are in the same room, use THE 
MISSION TO THE WEST to conduct 
the meeting with The Fetch. 

Instead of using characters of their 
own invention, your players can play one 
of the characters found in the PRE 
ROLLED CHARACTERS pan of this 
module. These are the same prcrolled 
characters found in previous BLACK- 
MOOR(tm) modules, but their experience 
levels are adjusted to reflect the pre 
sumed results of earlier adventures. Tf 
the players use the same prerolled char 
acters played in DAI, DA2, or DA3, 
ignore the prerolled characters in this 
module. 

The Heroes Out of Time 

The PCs can arrive for the meeting with 
The Fetch in one of three ways. 

1. An Invitation from the Fetch 

If you played previous modules in this 
series, any PCs who survived and stayed 
in Blackmoor are now residents of that 
land. For the last three months, since the 
events detailed in module DA3 (The City 
of the Gods), they have been enjoying 
themselves at crown expense. During 
that time, they have been guests at 
Blackmoor's famous Comeback Inn. 
One brisk fall morning, the inn's portly 
proprietor, Fredigar Cripps, informs 
them that The Fetch has requested that 
they make themselves available for a pri 
vate dinner in their rooms that very eve 
ning. 


2. A Prophecy in Glantri 

If you have played a previous module in 
this scries, and one or more of the PCs 
who are participating in this adventure 
returned to their own time at the end of 
their last adventure in Blackmoor, then 
anywhere between three weeks and three 
years of subjective time may have passed 
since those who left Blackmoor returned 
to their own time. No matter how long 
it's been for the PCs, three months have 
passed in Blackmoor. 

Those PCs who left Blackmoor at the 
end of the previous adventure and those 
PCs new to the BLACKMOOR cam 
paign have become companions during a 
visit to the city of Glantri. Late one dim 
and foggy night, as the PCs are unsteadi 
ly wending their way from one house of 
revels to another, they are accosted in the 
street by an old seeress. Read the follow 
ing passage to the PCs: 


Suddenly, the dark of night gives way 
to a ghostly luminescence. The figure 
of an aged woman appears in the 
misty street before you. Her bent 
form is surrounded by a dancing blue 
nimbus, and she glows faintly as she 
surveys you with eyes wise and cruel 
and ancient. Then, with a soft clarity, 
she speaks. 

"Know you," she says, "that I tun 
Benina the Seeress and that I have 
trod this earth for seven score years, 
advising mortals such as you. Now I 
tell you that I sense a great distur 
bance in the fabric of time and space. 
Something is calling. Something is 
calling you. 

"Ask not what. I do not know. But 
out in the Broken Lands is a place-a 
place that you have perhaps seen. It 
looks like this." 

Slowly, the woman's form begins to 
fade. In her place, there appear a suc 
cession of glowing images-first, a 
chimney of rock-then, a bowl of 
black stone-finally, an inn in the wil 
derness. A signboard before the latter 
bears the carved legend "The Come 
back Inn." This last image hangs in 


the air for a long moment. Then it 
fades, to be replaced by the form of 
Benina. 

"Listen mortals. Heed well. The 
way to this place is known to you, I 
think. Go there. Seek a past that only 
you know. Find the source of this dis 
turbance in our present reality and set 
all aright. Why you should do this I 
cannot see. Your future is hidden from 
me. I know not whether you go to for 
tune and the acclaim of kings-or to 
solitary and unmarked graves. Only 
this do I see-that you are the key to 
our reality, and that if you fail, so shall 
we." 

The old, cruel eyes rivet each of you 
for a moment. Then the strange seer- 
ess shudders, as if she has looked too 
long into darkness. Before you can 
react, her image fades, and she is 
gone. 

All that Benina has said is true. The crea 
tion of Zugzul's Well of Souls has caused a 
disturbance in the time-space continuum. 
Throughout the 3,000 years since the 
event, there are now signs and portents of 
doom-for the very existence of the artifact 
is creating an alternate universe in which 
Blackmoor is conquered by the Afridhi, 
thus changing the entire course of history. 
Those most closely linked with events in 
ancient Blackmoor arc now finding them 
selves drawn back toward the time when 
reality is in the process of splitting into two 
distinct universes. 

It is now up to the PCs to get to the Inn 
Between the Worlds described in pre 
vious BLACKMOOR modules. Once 
there, they must step through the Gate, 
which takes them to the Blackmoor of 
4,000 years ago. Since all of reality is 
drawing them toward Blackmoor, the 
Gate automatically takes them to the cel 
lar of the Comeback Inn at the very time 
that The Fetch is planning to send a par 
ty of men from the future-men "not yet 
bom"-to find and destroy the Well of 
Souls. 

Blackmoor's chief sleuth immediately 
works the newly arrived PCs into his 


6 






BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 


plans. After being admitted to Black- 
moor by the soldiers guarding the Gate 
in time, they are quartered in the Come 
back Inn and told to expect a guest for 
dinner, which will be served in their 
rooms. If there are other PCs staying at 
the Comeback Inn, the two groups are 
brought together. 

3. A Leap Into the Unknown 

There are two situations in which you 
will need to use this method of bringing 
PCs to Blackmoor. 

a. If you have not played any previous 
BLACKMOOR(tm) modules, you can still 
play this one by using this section to 
introduce the PCs to Blackmoor. How 
ever, once a character is used in this mod 
ule, it can't be used in previous 
BLACKMOOR modules. 

b. In the unlikely event that all of the 
PCs who played previous modules were 
killed or remained in Blackmoor at the 
end of their last adventure, use this sec 
tion to bring new PCs to Blackmoor. 

At the start of this adventure, all of the new 
PCs are together in what appears to be an 
abandoned inn located high atop a rocky 
chimney in the middle of the Broken Lands. 
They have been chased into the building by 
a large band of brigands. However, they 
haven't been able to bar the doors to the 
inn, so the brigands, curious about this inn 
in the middle of nowhere as much as any 
thing, have followed them inside. Now the 
PCs are trapped by the brigands in the 
lower cellar of the inn with their backs to a 
fog-shrouded stone archway. Badly out 
numbered, the PCs take the one escape 
route open to them-they step into the 
arch. When they step out again, they are in 
the Comeback Inn in the town and king 
dom of Blackmoor 4,000 years in the past- 
and the Gate behind them is shut. Read the 
following passage to the PCs. 


The room before you seems to be the 
same one you just left. But there are 
no brigands, and the faint odor of 
decay is gone. Instead, the room is 
clean and neat and is occupied by a 


troop of six soldiers. There is a barred 
iron gate between you and the sol 
diers, one of whom runs out of the 
room just as you arrive. The other sol 
diers aim cocked and loaded cross 
bows in your direction, but don't 
actually attack you. 

The soldier who ran out of the room 
returns in 3-6 rounds with The Fetch, 
the cleric Gregor Mcndicamp, the wiz 
ard Jallapierie, and six additional sol 
diers (making a total of 12 in the room). 
The PCs then face: 

Jallapierie: AC 4 (ring of protection + 5); 
HD 17; hp 44; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; 
D 3-13 (staff of wizardry) or 3-6 (dagger 
+ 2) or by spell; Save Ml7; ML 10; 
AL L. 

Gregor Mendicamp: AC 9; HD 12; hp 
45; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 2-12 
(staff) or by spell; Save C12; ML 11; 
AL L. 

The Fetch: AC 3 (chain mail + 2); HD 14; 
hp 56; MV 120' (40'); #AT1;D3-10 
(sword +2); Save FI4; ML 10; AL L. 

Soldiers (12): AC 5 (chain mail); HD 5; 
hp 25 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 
1-6 (crossbow) or 1-8 (sword); Save 
F5; ML 10; AL L; XP 175. 

The soldiers are elite guardsmen. Each 
wears blackened armor and a black tunic 
emblazoned with a large silver Hawk of 
Andahar. Each soldier carries a case of 
crossbow quarrels containing 16 normal 
quarrels and one each (total of four) of 
the following magical missiles: 

1 Quarrel of Charming: The victim 
must make a Saving Throw vs. Spells or 
be charmed by the user (as the charm per 
son or charm monster magic user spell). 

1 Quarrel of Disarming: This missile 
has no effect unless it strikes a victim 
holding a weapon or other item. The vic 
tim must make a Saving Throw vs. 
Spells or drop whatever he is holding. A 
dropped item can normally be recovered 
in one round (unless it falls into a pit or 
chasm, or someone else grabs it). 


1 Quarrel of Dispelling: When this mis 
sile hits, it creates a dispel magic effect cen 
tered on the point of impact (a 20' cube), 
as if cast by a 15th level caster. 

1 Quarrel of Stunning: The victim hit 
by this missile must make a Saving 
Throw vs. Spells or be stunned for 1-6 
rounds. A stunned victim cannot con 
centrate, and suffers a -2 penalty to sav 
ing throws, a -4 penalty to Hit rolls, and 
a +4 penalty to Armor Class. 

The NPCs indicated above are described 
in the ROGUES, REGENTS & RAS 
CALS part of this module. Both NPCs 
and guardsmen want to avoid a fight. If 
forced to fight, their objective is to subdue 
rather than kill. They are mainly inter 
ested in preventing unauthorized entry 
or exit through the Gate and in detaining 
intruders. Thus, they try to capture the 
intruders instead of killing them. In com 
bat, the guardsmen use their magical 
quarrels first. Only if a foe continues the 
struggle after all magical quarrels have 
been fired, do they fire normal quarrels. 
Even then, they avoid killing the PCs. 

Lf the PCs negotiate. The Fetch invites 
them to enter the room and has one of the 
guardsmen open the iron-barred gate. He 
then explains to them where (when?) they 
are and what the Gate is. He also informs 
them that the Gate is now sealed behind 
them, but that he and his "associates" 
have found a way to reopen it, and will do 
so when the PCs are ready to leave. How 
ever, since they are here, he would like to 
speak with them and make them an offer of 
employment. He keeps talking until he 
gets the PCs to agree to accept the hospital 
ity of the Comeback Inn ("direedy above 
your heads") and to sup with him in their 
rooms that evening. 

If the PCs insist on fighting, the NPCs 
and guardsmen present should have little 
trouble subduing them, but if the fight 
lasts more than six rounds, then two 
more soldiers arrive on each succeeding 
round until the PCs are subdued. These 
new arrivals have the same characteris 
tics as the soldiers already present, but 
don't carry crossbows. 


7 





BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 


Once any fighting is over, the NPCs 
have some local clerics care for anyone 
who was seriously wounded and raise 
anyone who was killed. The Fetch then 
fills the PCs in on what has happened to 
them, arranges for them to be guested in 
the inn, and makes a dinner engagement 
in their rooms. 

The Mission to the West 

Before their dinner engagement with The 
Fetch, the PCs are brought together in 
their rooms in the Comeback Inn. If some 
(but not all) of the PCs are new to the land 
of Blackmoor, give the old hands a chance 
to fill the new people in on the situation 
(polidcs, geography, recent events, etc.). 

On the first evening that all of the PCs 
arc gathered at the Comeback Inn, The 
Fetch, Jallapierie, and Gregor Mendi- 
camp dine with them. Over roast squab, 
spiced rice, smoked sturgeon, and sweet 
breads, The Fetch discourses on current 
events. If all of the PCs are new to Black 
moor, he first discusses the material pre 
sented in the THE KINGDOM OF 
BLACKMOOR and THE WRATH 
OF THE AFRIDHI. If not, he assumes 
that the PCs already know the cam 
paign's background and instead settles 
down for a good gossip. 


Finally, the old man pushes his plate 
away, leans back in his chair with a 
contented sigh, and gazes off into 
space for a moment. Having seeming 
ly gathered his thoughts from amid 
the smokes that play among the ceil 
ing beams, he finally speaks. 

"Ever since we beat the Afridhi at 
the Batdc of the Neck, we've been 
hearing stories about a new holy war 
that Toska Rusa was preparing to 
launch against us. Frankly, we've 
been wondering why it was taking the 
lady so long to put an army across our 
border. Now we know." 

Indicating the colorless litde man 
who has been sitting silently at his side 
throughout the meal, The Fetch con 
tinues. 

"This is Gregor Mendicamp. Once 


upon a time, Gregor was a priest in 
the Thonian High Church. Now, he 
does special work for the Bishop of 
Blackmoor. Though he is a Tcnian, 
and the enemy of our blood for a hun 
dred years, we are now allied against 
the Afridhi. So Gregor brought to us 
an item that makes it quite clear why 
the Afridhi haven't attacked. And 
now I bring that item to you." 

So saying, The Fetch draws from 
his purse a greasy, dog-cared, and 
much-folded scrap of parchment. 
Carefully unfolding it, he offers the 
item for your examination. 


The preferred item is the original mes 
sage that was smuggled out of Star- 
morgan by the now-deceased Tenian 
scribe. It is reproduced on the module 
cover; show it to the PCs now. 


As you finish your examination of the 
parchment, Gregor Mendicamp 
begins speaking. 

"The man who wrote diis is dead. So 
is everyone he spoke to that the Afridhi 
could find. They missed one man that 
we know of-just one-and he was the 
one who got this message to the Broth 
ers of the Greenwood. They, in turn, 
delivered it to me, and I have brought it 
here. It says that this awful thing- thi s 
Well of Souls-can be destroyed only by 
one who is yet unborn. I am told that 
you are such men. Tell me, please, how 
such a thing can be." 


Gregor now questions the PCs briefly to 
determine what it is that gives them 
power over the Well of Souls. He is keen 
ly interested in where they came from 
and how they got to Blackmoor. Finally, 
The Fetch interrupts. 


"The answer strikes me as obvious. 
We've heard of things like this before. 
Rare artifacts that can supposedly 
topple kingdoms and rend die earth- 
they're not common, but they have 
appeared from time to time. In each 
case, there is a weakness -some meth 


od by which the thing can be defeated 
or destroyed. 

"That's why there's always some 
sort of prophecy surrounding the 
thing. It's a kind of second line of 
defense. Weave a good prophecy into 
the artifact, and you eliminate a fair 
portion of those who might want to 
turn it to slag. Devilishly ingenious, 
really. Only, in this case, this Zugzul 
fellow seems to have slipped up- 
because we have the men who can 
unmake his Well of Souls right here in 
this room -men as yet unborn -men 
who won't be bom for, oh, about 4,000 
years. Eh?" 

As he utters this last statement, The 
Fetch breaks into a broad grin. But it 
disappears almost at once, to be 
replaced by musing frown. 

"Actually, it's nothing to make 
light of. Our agents in the Duchy 
report that the Afridhi have been 
working at this project for years now. 
Finding the hill, building a road to it, 
cutting the tunnel-all of that took 
time. Most of it has been done with 
slave labor-Tenians who have been 
impressed into Afridhi service. We've 
known about it all along, but could 
never figure out what the Afridhi were 
up to out there in the wilderness. Now 
we know. 

"This message has taken quite 
some time to reach us -too much time. 
As best we can tell, the artifact is 
already in existence. Oh, it's not com 
plete yet. But our people in the magic 
end of things have no doubt that the 
Afridhi are close. The magical ener 
gies of our land are being disturbed- 
and the source of the disturbance is 
out there in the wilderness on the 
western frontier of the Duchy of Ten. 

"Now, we have a name for it-this 
disturbance. Tor Kurram, the Afridhi 
call it-the Hill of the Hammer. 
Somewhere out there in the Barrens 
of Karsh is Tor Kurram, and inside 
that hill our enemies are cooking up 
something that I can only describe as 
truly unholy. 


8 










BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 


"This Well of Souls must be unmade. 
Whatever it really is and does, we sim 
ply can't let it achieve its full power. 
Because, according to those among us 
who deal in such things, the result 
would be not only the defeat of Black- 
moor, but a vast upheaval in the entire 
fabric of time and space. We can't see all 
of our future, but this much we do 
know-that Blackmoor does not fall to 
the Afridhi. If that changes, then so does 
everything else. Time will be unnuuie. 
Chaos will rule. That, say our wizards, 
is the final meaning of the Well of Souls. 

"And, now, I think that I have 
preached enough. The thing must be 
unmade. That much is clear. You are 
the only ones who can do it. That also 
is clear. The question upon which this 
evening hinges is now also clear. 
Assuming that we reach an appropri 
ate financial arrangement, will you 
accept this quest?" 


At this point, the PCs will probably want to 
talk money. The Fetch offers them 3,000 
gold pieces each to essay the mission, and 
another 7,000 gold pieces if they destroy 
the Well of Souls. He is willing to increase 
these amounts by up to 50%. 


Once financial matters are behind 
you, The Fetch begins to discuss the 
mission. Now, the reason for the pres 
ence of the blank-faced wizard Jalla- 
pierie is clear. Jallapicrie will 
accompany you to advise and assist. 
Gregor Mendicamp will also come 
along to act as liaison with the Tenian 
underground. 

"Messages have already gone 
ahead," says The Fetch. "There are 
friends awaiting your arrival. Once 
you slip into the Duchy, you will be in 
constant danger from Afridhi patrols 
and press gangs, but you will also 
have the aid of those who oppose the 
Afridhi, the Brothers of the Green 
wood, the Degern rebels, and the 
thieves of Robinsport, among others. 


The problem is getting you into die 
Duchy. The border and all of the roads 
leading west from it are heavily 
patrolled. Anyway, by the time you 
made your way through the Afridhi and 
across the Duchy overland, it might be 
too late. The artifact might be com 
plete. So we have another way." 

The Fetch opens the door to your 
rooms and motions someone inside. 
The newcomer is a tall, red-haired 
man in seaman's clothes. As The 
Fetch gestures to the assembled 
group, the man studies you carefully, 
as if memorizing your faces. When he 
seems to be done, The Fetch speaks. 

"These here and no others. On the 
morning tide. The sum of 1,000 gold 
pieces per head, there and back. No 
questions and a guaranteed delivery." 

"Hain't no such tiling as garnteed 
delivery," the red-haired man growls. 
But he nods all the same. 

"Agreed, anyway," he says. "Be at 
ta' Old North Dock at ta' third hour 
o' the momin' ready t' go. Ship's 
name is Blossom. I'm Castegere. My 
boy an' I, we run ta' coast 'tween here 
an' Robinsport regular. We'll get 'ya 
inside ta' town. Den, yer' on yer' 
own. When yer' ready ta' come back, 
jes' let me see 'ya on ta' dock. My 
men'll get ya' back aboard. Agreed?" 

The Fetch nods curtly, then shows 
Castegere the door. Turning back to 
you, he sighs. 

"A very clever man, Castegere. A 
smuggler-and very successful at it, 
too. His Blossom doesn't look like 
much, but I'm told that she's a stout 
little ship with the fastest legs in the 
Amber Channel. He also has his own 
ways in and out of Duchy ports. 
We've used him before to get our peo 
ple past the Afridhi. 

"He'll take you to Robinsport and 
put you ashore. He'll also bring you 
home, though you may have to cool 
your heels in the port for a week or so 
if he's at sea when you reach the town. 
If you wait two weeks in Robinsport 
without seeing Blossom, it means that 


Castegere's in trouble, himself, and 
you'll have to find another way home. 

"One thing. About Castegere. You 
can rely on his judgement and his 
greed. But don't trust him. Not for an 
instant. The man is treacherous. 

"Now then, once ashore, you'll 
need to go overland in disguise. 
Friend Gregor has suggested scribes' 
robes, and I agree. So we've taken the 
liberty of giving Gregor a bag of them 
to take along. As to how you'll get to 
Tor Kurram from Robinsport, that's 
entirely up to you. Gregor will explain 
what to expect, and you'll have to 
make up your own minds. For my 
part, I'm for bed. Good luck to you all 
and godspeed. I'll see you when you 
return." 


At this point, The Fetch leaves and Gre 
gor takes over the briefing, showing the 
PCs a map on which he points out vari 
ous features of the Duchy of Ten. Show 
the PCs MAP 1: THE NORTH 
LANDS, and give them a brief rundown 
of what to expect, using information 
drawn from GEOGRAPHY OF THE 
WEST. Be sure to give them plenty of 
time to ask questions. When their curios 
ity is satisfied, Gregor suggests that they 
not decide how to get to Tor Kurram 
until they are actually in Robinsport, 
since "we can best gather information on 
the current situation when we're in the 
Duchy." He then puts the map in his 
pouch and announces that he is bound 
for bed. 



9 













RUNNING THE ADVENTURE 


THE ENCOUNTER CHANCE TABLE 


AREA BEING TRAVERSED... 

NUMBER OF CHECKS 
EACH DAY... 

ENCOUNTER 
OCCURS ON... 

The Amber Channel 

2 

4-6 

The Barrens of Karsh 

l 

4-6 

The Barrier Swamp/Brushy Fen 

2 

4-6 

The Bay of Blackmoor 

0 

- 

Tile Bay of Rceva 

2 

5-6 

The Black Sea 

1 

5-6 

The Eaves 

1 

5-6 

The Empty Lands 

1 

6 

The Gargoyle Hills 

1 

5-6 

The Glens 

1 

5-6 

The Great Dismal Swamp 

3 

4-6 

The Hills of Ten_ 

1 

5-6 

The Plains of Hak 

I 

6 

The Wilds of Ten 

1 

5-6 


Once the PCs have been recruited and 
briefed by The Fetch as described in 
THE MISSION TO THE WEST, they 
are ready to play. The morning after 
their dinner, they gather in their rooms, 
where they are joined by their NPC com 
panions. Together the members of the 
party make their way to Blackmoor's Old 
North Dock, where they board Captain 
Castagere's vessel. Blossom. The vessel 
and its westward journey are described 
in THE OCEAN VOYAGE 
The voyage ends at Robinsport, and 
the PCs begin the overland part of their 
journey. If they leave Robinsport as cap 
tives, they are marched direct to Tor 
Kurram on a chain gang and held for 
sacrifice to the Well of Souls. Otherwise, 
they must travel overland the best way 
they can until they reach 'lor Kurram. 
This part of the adventure is described in 
THE OVERLAND JOURNEY. 

Trace both the ocean and the overland 
legs of the journey to Tor Kurram using 
MAP 1: THE NORTHLANDS and fol 
lowing the outdoor travel and encounter 
routines in the D&D(r) Expert Set Rules. 
These standard routines are slightly 
modified to reflect the chance of having 
an encounter in some areas shown on the 
map. The ENCOUNTER CHANCE 
TABLE on this page lists a number of 
geographical areas in its left-hand 
column. The middle column shows the 
number of encounter checks made each 
day that the PCs spend traversing those 
areas (minimum of one check per area). 
The right-hand column shows the num 
ber that must be rolled on ld6 for an 
encounter to occur. Use this table for the 
areas named instead of the CHANCE 
OF ENCOUNTER table on page 42 of 
the Expert Set Rules. Make one check 
each day. Use the table in the Expert Set 
Rules for any areas not named on the 
ENCOUNTER CHANCE TABLE 
In addition to random encounters, the 
adventure includes some encounters that 
provide the PCs with needed possessions, 
companions, or information. These 
may or may not occur, at your discre 
tion. These optional encounters are pan 
of the plot alterations described in 


THE PLOT TWISTS. 

The GEOGRAPHY OF THE WEST 

part of this module describes the most 
important areas found on the western 
part of the map of the Northlands. It also 
contains 12 encounter tables used for dif 
ferent areas and terrain types shown on 
that map. The tables in the GEOGRA 
PHY OF THE WEST arc used instead 
of the standard encounter tables included 
on pages 30 and 35 of the Expert Set 
Rules. Use the tables in the Expert Set 
Rules only when a given area is not cov 
ered by one of the encounter tables in this 
module. 

Many of the encounters listed on this 
module's encounter tables involve mon 
sters new to the PCs. Those monsters not 
described in the D&D(r) Basic and Expert 
Set Rules are detailed in the MON 
STERS & FOES part of the module. 

At the end of their journey, the PCs 
reach the Afridhi temple at Tor Kurram. 
They must then enter the mountain, find 
and destroy the Well of Souls, and make 
their escape. Tor Kurram is described in 
detail in THE FORGE AT TOR KUR 
RAM 

Once the PCs have accomplished their 
mission (or decided that they are unable 
to do so), they will want to get out of Tor 
Kurram and the Duchy of Ten with some 
dispatch. The ENDING THE ADVEN 
TURE part of the module explains how 
diey can escape. 


Finally, the PCs will meet many 
important NPCs in this module. Some of 
them (Dost Suwat, Gerry Castegere, 
Gregor Mendicap, Jallapierie, and Stout 
Robin Goodfcllow) may aid the PCs or 
accompany them on their adventure. 
Others (Gul Hadda, Sher Yakub, loska 
Rusa, and Utnra Dir) are foes who may 
reappear in future modules in this series. 
Still others (Captain Hieronymus Caste 
gere, The Fetch, Sir Kay Dcgern) are 
only peripherally involved, but are 
important to play of future BLACK- 
MOOR modules. All of these characters 
are described in detail in the ROGUES, 
REGENTS & RASCALS part of this 
module. Avoid permanently killing off 
any of them except Dost Suwat, Sher 
Yakub, and Umra Dir since, even if you 
are not playing this module as part of a 
BLACKMOOR campaign, you may 
want to sec these NPCs again if your 
players return to the Duchy of Ten. 

NOTE: Most parts of the map aren't 
described in any detail in this module. 
Areas such as Blackmoor and parts of the 
Great Dismal Swamp are described in 
more detail in module DA I (Adventures in 
Blackmoor) and module DA2 ( Temple of the 
Frog). Since the PCs should have no rea 
son to stray into these areas during this 
adventure, you should not need to worry 
about them. However, you might want 
to use material from those previous 
adventures to enrich play in this one. 


10 




THE JOURNEY TO THE WEST 


The NPCs who are participating in the 
adventure join the PCs in their rooms in 
the cold predawn hours of the morning 
following their dinner with The Fetch. 
Gregor has the map and their disguises 
tucked in an old sea bag. After a cold 
breakfast of roast venison, pickled eggs, 
bread, and ale, they make their way 
down to the Old North Dock, where they 
are greeted by Castegere, who quiedy 
ushers them aboard a shabby coaster that 
was long past its prime before most of its 
crew were bom. The reek of fresh pitch 
in the patches in her caulking and the 
spotty gleam of fresh cordage amid her 
ancient rigging can't quite hide the fact 
that this lady looks hardly fit even to be a 
tramp. 

Once on board, the PCs are hustled 
below decks by a slight, pretty young 
man who introduces himself as First 
Mate Gerry Castegere. This "young 
man" is really the captain's 19-year-old 
daughter, whom he has disguised as a 
boy and kept with him aboard Blossom 
ever since she was three. Gerry guides 
the PCs to the aft belowdecks cabin and 
orders them to stow their gear and stay 
out of sight. She then hurries back to the 
main deck. It takes the crew just minutes 
to warp Blossom out to sea once the PCs 
are safely aboard. 

The Voyage of the Blossom 

Captain Castegere plans to hug the coast 
of the Bay of Blackmoor all the way to 
Coot's Watch, where Blossom will enter 
the Black Sea. After a short run across 50 
miles of open water, he will sail through 
the narrow channel called The Breakers 
and into the Bay of Reeva. He will then 
take to the open sea and make straight for 
the headland between the Bay of Reeva 
and Cisco Bay, after which he will hug 
the southern coast of the dangerous 
Amber Channel all the way to Robin- 
sport. The entire voyage should take 
about three days, and you should run it 
using the Waterborne Adventures rules 
in the D&D(r) Expert Set. Modify those 
rules as follows: 

1. Use the ENCOUNTER CHANCE 


TABLE in this module to determine how 
often you check for encounters and what 
die roll result causes an encounter. The 
PCs have no encounters in the Bay of 
Blackmoor. 

2. Use the OCEAN ENCOUNTER 
TABLE in this module to determine 
exactly what the PCs encounter during 
the voyage. 

3. Use the WATER MOVEMENT 
MODIFICATION CHART in the 

D&D(r) Expert Set to find each day's 
weather. If the weather is Extreme High 
Winds or Gale, don't check for encount 
ers. 

4. Use MAP 2: BLOSSOM DECK 
PLAN to keep track of shipboard events. 
The Deck Plan Key indicates the con 
tents of each area of the ship. 

5. Use the material in THE PLOT 
TWISTS to enrich play of the voyage 
and the landfall at Robinsport. 

The Ship & Crew 

Blossom may resemble a seagoing tramp, 
but she is still sound, and is, in fact, one 
of the fastest vessels in northern waters, 
well able to outrun just about anything 
else afloat. Given a fair wind and a mod 
erate sea, she makes 100 miles per day 
straight-sailing. During melee, she 
makes 150 feet per round. 

Blossom is 90 feet long and has a beam 
of 26 feet and a draught of eight feet. It is 
9 feet from her waterline to the top of her 
main deck rails and 10 more feet from 
there to the top of her forecastle and poop 
rails. She has 80 hull points and a capaci 
ty of 100,000 coin. Her hull is AC 8. 

In addition to the captain and first 
mate, Blossom's crew includes a bosun 
and nine seamen. The Castegeres arc 
described in ROGUES, REGENTS & 
RASCALS. The bosun and nine seamen 
have the following characteristics: 

Bosun Bhuto Bulazi: AC 9; HD 5; hp 15; 
MV 120'(40'); #AT 1; D 2-5; Save 
M5; ML 11; AL N; XP 175. 


Bhuto carries a dagger +7 hidden 
under his shirt and wears a chain around 
his neck from which are suspended the 
keys to his sea chest, the galley stores (2- 
5), and the ship's stores (2-6). He knows 
the spells read magic, sleep , invisibility, 
knock, and dispel magic. 

Bhuto has been with Castegere for 16 
years, ever since the captain bought him 
from a Thonian slave factor. A decade 
ago, after Bhuto saved Gerry's life dur 
ing a wild melee with Frisian pirates, 
Castegere manumitted his slave and 
made him bosun, with the customary tri 
ple share of the profits from each voyage. 
Bhuto is intensely loyal to his captain. 
He is also the only member of the crew 
who knows the truth about Gerry's gen 
der, a bit of knowledge that he stumbled 
on by accident and has kept strictly to 
himself. Even the Castegeres don't know 
that Bhuto has found them out. 

Seamen (9): AC 9; HD 2; hp 12 each; 

MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1 -4 (dagger) 

or 1-6(short sword); Save F2; ML 11/ 

9/7; AL N; XP 10 each. 

Each seaman carries a dagger hidden 
on his person. If Blossom is at sea, mem 
bers of the watch also carry cutlasses 
(treat as short swords). If danger threat 
ens, all seamen carry cutlasses. 

Blossom's seamen have always been 
well-treated by their captain, and are 
intensely loyal to both Castegeres. They 
also have a kind of superstitious faith in 
their captain's "luck." As long as they 
know that he is alive and conscious, their 
morale is 11. If he is killed or appears to 
have been knocked out of a fight, their 
morale drops to 9. If both the captain 
and Gerry are killed (not just rendered 
unconscious or subdued), the morale of 
the seamen drops to 7. None of the sea 
men suspects that Gerry is female. 

Deck Plan Key 

Blossom consists of 14 separate areas on 
four levels, plus a crow's nest atop the 
mast. Unless otherwise noted, doors, 
portholes, and windows are unlocked. 
Portholes arc 10" square-too small for 


11 




THE JOURNEY TO THE WEST 


a character to pass through. Doors are 
six feet high, three feet wide and made of 
solid oak. Exterior decks and stairs are 
lined with two-foot-high railings. All 
cabins and other internal areas have 
seven-foot ceilings. 

1. Main Deck 

Centered on the main deck is a thick 50- 
foot-high mast. Iron rungs set in its ah side 
lead to the crow's nest (2-15). A wooden 
rack built into the mast at waist height 
holds a score of oak belaying pins (treat as 
clubs). At night, a lighted lantern hangs 
from an iron hook set at eye level in the 
mast's forward side. Forward of the mast is 
a 10-foot jolly boat, which is inverted and 
lashed to four heavy deck cleats. Treat this 
item as a lifeboat having only 10 hull points 
and a capacity of 10,000 cn. Stowed under 
the jolly boat is a gangway that can be 
emplaced in either the port or starboard 
side of the main deck; the center five-foot 
section of railing in each side is hinged so 
that it can swing back to accommodate the 
gangway. 

Set into the deck abaft the mast is a 
barred wooden grate giving access to the 
cargo hold (2-11). Short stairways in 
each forward comer go to the forecasde 
(2-2). Similar stairways in the aft comers 
go up to the poop deck (2-3). 

Set into the bulkheads marking each of 
the upper decks are three doors. The 
center door in the aft bulkhead goes to 
the aft belowdccks cabin (2-12); the star 
board door goes to the captain's cabin (2- 

9) ; the port door goes to the mate's cabin 
(2-8). The center door in the forward 
bulkhead goes to the crew's quarters (2- 

10) ; the starboard door goes to the 
bosun's cabin (2-7); the port door goes to 
the galley (2-6). 

If Blossom is in danger, there are seven 
crewmen armed with cudasses on the 
main deck. When Blossom is docked at 
Robinsport, a gangway leads from the 
port side to the dock, and there are four 
Afridhi soldiers (AC 5; HD 2; hp 12 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8; Save 
F2; ML 10; ALC; XP 10cach)on guard 
on the main deck. They wear chain mail 
and carry swords. The guards have 


orders to allow only crewmen on board. 

2. Forecastle 

The raised forecasde is dominated by the 
capstan, from which a heavy anchor 
chain runs to the vessel's port side. When 
Blossom is at sea and the weather is fair, 
three to six seamen lounge on this deck, 
chatting and working at their scrimshaw; 
a seaman armed with a cutlass stands 
watch on the forecastle at night. When 
the ship is at Robinsport, an Afridhi sol- 
dier(AC 5; HD3;hp 18; MV 120' (40'); 
#AT 1; D 1-6 or 1-8; Save F3; ML 10; 
AL C; XP 35) takes his place. He wears 
chain mail and has a crossbow and a 
sword. If the main deck guards become 
involved in a melee, he supports them 
with crossbow fire. 

3. Poop Deck 

Rising from the poop deck is a tiller, with 
a five-foot-long horizontal arm that con 
trols the rudder. A seaman mans the tiller 
unless Blossom is in port. When not at the 
tiller, the seaman paces the deck through 
out his watch. When Blossom is at sea, 
either Hieronymus, Gerry, or Bhuto is 
also on this deck. When Blossom is at 
Robinsport, there is an Afridhi soldier 
(AC 5; HD 3; hp 18; MV 120' (40'); #AT 
1; D 1-6 or 1-8; Save F3; ML 10; ALC; 
XP 35) here. He wears chain mail and 
has a crossbow and sword. If the main 
deck guards become involved in a melee, 
he comes to their aid. 

4. Galley Stores 


Rusty iron hooks set in the oak beams 
of this storeroom hold hams, sides of 
bacon, strings of sausages, and net 
bags of dried herbs. There is a stack of 
large bulging sacks against die outer 
hull. To the left of the door is a large 
bin. To the right are three barrels. 
Thrust into a pile of sand in the for 
ward starboard corner of the cabin are 
five large day jars. 


The sacks hold dried beans and lentils. 
The bin holds flour. The barrels hold ale, 
apples, and salt pork. The jars hold 
wine, salt, sugar, honey, and olive oil. 


5. Ships Stores 


A stack of oak planks rests against the 
outer hull. It is secured with diick 
ropes made fast to cleats in deck and 
ribs. Next to the planks is a barrel, 
which is lashed to the deck deals. Set 
against the port bulkhead are two 
casks and two dosed bins. 


The barrel contains tar. The casks hold 
iron spikes and copper nails. The bin 
nearest the door holds brushes and 12 
sealed buckets of paint and turpentine. 
The other bin holds four large rolls of 
saildoth, three 100-foot lengths of rope, 
and a box of carpenter's tools. 

6. Galley 


A crude metal stove is set against the 
forward wall of this L-shaped room. 
There is a porthole above the stove 
obviously intended to accommodate the 
stovepipe when it is in use. Next to the 
stove is a large dosed oak bin. Bolted to 
the deck against the outer hull is a 
scarred oak table with a central drawer. 

A tall oak cabinet is bolted to the oppo 
site bulkhead. A crude straight-back 
chair is bolted to the deck next to a door 
in the forward bulkhead. Lashed to the 
bulkhead on the other side of die door is 
a water task. A lantern and a collection 
of cooking gear hangs from iron hooks 
in the ceiling. 

The locked door goes to the galley stores 
(2-4). Bhuto, the cook, and Castegere 
each have keys. During the day, which 
ever seaman is taking his turn as cook is 
on duty in the galley unless danger 
threatens. The table drawer holds cleav 
ers and knives. A sheath bolted to the 
table's underside holds a cutlass. The 
cabinet holds crockery. 

7. Bosun's Cabin 


This cabin has a single bunk built into 
the port bulkhead. A table and two 
chairs are bolted to the center of the 
deck. There is a door in the forward 


12 







THE JOURNEY TO THE WEST 


bulkhead and a glazed porthole in the 
outer hull. A small lantern hangs from 
a hook over the table. 


This is Bhuto's cabin. The locked door 
goes to ships stores (2-5). Bhuto and Cas- 
tegere have the only keys. Beneath the 
bunk and obscured by the overhanging 
bed clothes is Bhuto's spell book and a 
locked copper-bound oak sea chest full of 
clothing and toiletries. It also contains a 
small sack of 100 gold pieces and 100 sil 
ver pieces. If Bhuto isn't encountered 
elsewhere on Blossom, he is in his cabin. 

8. Mate's Cabin 


The walls, floor, and ceiling of this 
cabin are paneled in white oak. There 
is a bunk built into the starboard bulk 
head. A carved dark oak table and 
three matching side chairs are bolted 
to the center of the deck. There is a 
glazed porthole in the portside hull 
and a glazed window aft. Beneath tfie 
window is a brass-bound oak sea 
chest. A lantern hangs from an iron 
hook set in the ceiling above the table. 
Atop the table are a copper basin and 
ewer and a towel. 


Gerry Castegere bunks here. The locked 
sea chest holds clothing, toiletries, and 
personal effects, including a large num 
ber of female undergarments. It also 
holds a short sword +7, her crossbow, 20 
quarrels, a small sack holding 100 gold 
pieces, and a leather pouch holding 12 
pearls, worth 500 gold pieces each. The 
key to the chest is hidden in a hollow area 
in the aft portside post of the cabin's 
bunk. Beneath the bunk is a copper 
chamber pot. Unbeknownst to any but 
Gerry and her father, pressing a loose 
board in the starboard wall opens a secret 
door leading to the captain's cabin (2-9). 
If Gerry isn't encountered elsewhere on 
Blossom, she is here. 

9. Captain's Cabin 


The walls, floor, and ceiling of this 


cabin are paneled in dark oak. The 
room's single bunk is built into the port 
bulkhead. Then- is a glazed porthole in 
the starboard hull and a small glazed 
window aft. A carved dark oak writing 
desk and a matching armchair are bolt 
ed to the deck beneath the window. 
Next to the desk is a brass-bound oak 
sea chest. Built into the starboard hull is 
a glass-doored cabinet holding some 
leather-bound books, several dozen 
parchment sea charts, and some navi 
gational tools. Atop the cabinet is a tow 
el and a copper basin and ewer. Above 
it hangs a sun-faded, gilt-framed por 
trait of a young woman who looks 
exaedy like Gerry Castegere. A lantern 
hangs from an iron ceiling hook over 
the desk. 


Hieronymus Castegere bunks here. The 
portrait is of his dead wife, Blossom. The 
unlocked cabinet holds nothing of value. 
The locked sea chest contains clothing, 
toiletries, and personal effects. It also 
contains a sword + 1, charm person and a 
large sack holding 200 gold and 400 plat 
inum pieces. The locked desk holds 
parchment, quills, ink, scaling wax, a 
pot of blotting sand, and a portfolio of 
Castegere's personal papers. It also con 
tains a leather sack holding 18 pearls 
worth 500 gold pieces each. The captain 
carries the keys to his desk and sea chest 
in his belt pouch. Unbeknownst to any 
one but Gerry and Hieronymus, press 
ing a knot hole in the starboard wall 
opens a secret door that leads to the 
mate's cabin (2-8). In addition, a hidden 
speaking tube in the port bulkhead next 
to the desk lets Castegere speak with per 
sons inside the hideaway (2-13). 

If Hieronymus isn't encountered else 
where on Blossom, he is here. If he is 
present, there is a 20% chance that 
Gerry is with him (if she hasn't already 
been encountered). 

10. Crew's Quarters 


This 20-foot by 20-foot cabin is domi 
nated by a scarred 10-foot oak trestle 
table flanked by a pair of oak benches. 


Its other contents consist of nine ham 
mocks and an equal number of sea 
bags slung from hooks set in the main 
ribs and in two foot-thick posts. A 
shabby curtain strung diagonally 
across the cabin's aft starboard corner 
forms a makeshift privy accommodat 
ing a large tin chamberpot. The star 
board and port hull surfaces each have 
one porthole containing a removable 
wooden plug. Affixed to the matin rib 
next to the starboard porthole is a jag 
ged piece of mirror and a small shelf 
holding a basin, ewer, and towel. Set 
in the aft bulkhead arc a companion- 
way and a door. The companionway 
is set with 12 iron brackets holding 
cutlasses. 


The companionway goes to the main 
deck (2-1). The door goes to the cargo 
hold (2-11). The sea bags contain the 
crew's possessions, mosdy clothing and 
such. If looted, they net a total of just 40 
gold pieces, 100 silver pieces, and a sin 
gle inferior pearl worth 300 gold pieces. 
One seabag also gives up a scrimshawed 
ring of fire resistance. During the day, sea 
men not on watch or lounging on the 
forecastle are sleeping in this area. At 
night, there are six crewmen asleep here. 

11. Cargo Hold 


This 24-foot by 40-foot area is the 
ship's cargo hold. Resting on deck 
and securely lashed to starboard hull 
and deck cleats are 34 large crates, 
stacked two high. Similarly secured 
against the port-side hull are 72 bar 
rels, stacked two high. Lashed to the 
deck against the aft bulkhead is a long 
low slack of four dozen rolls of sail 
cloth. There are two doors in the aft 
bulkhead and a third door in the for 
ward bulkhead. Next to the mast is a 
companionway. An iron grate is set in 
the middle of the deck forward of the 
mast. A lantern hangs from an iron 
hook set in the mast. A variety of 
cargo-handling gear hangs from other 
hooks or is lashed to the mast. 


13 








THE JOURNEY TO THE WEST 


The aft doors go to the belowdecks aft 
cabin (2-12); the forward door to the 
crew's quarters (2-10). The grate can be 
removed to give access to the bilges (2- 
14). The companionway goes to the 
upper deck (2-1); it is a knock-down that 
can be removed to accommodate the 
loading of oversize cargo. The largest of 
the crates hold assorted furniture. The 
smaller ones hold crocks of spices packed 
in straw. Half of the barrels hold apples; 
the other half contain fresh cider. The 
cargo-handling gear hooked to the mast 
includes comealongs, two heavy hook- 
and-chain assemblies, a block and tackle, 
and a 100-foot length of rope. Laid out 
between the sailcloth and the aft bulk 
head is a cargo net. 

12. Belowdecks Aft Cabin. 


The only amenity in this 24-foot by 
14-foot cabin is a chamber pot in the 
aft port comer. There is a pile of can 
vas and cordage in the other aft cor 
ner. The port and starboard hull 
sections each have a porthole, but 
their wooden plugs are spiked down 
and sealed with pitch. The forward 
bulkhead contains two doors and a 
companionway. Two foot-thick posts 
occupy the center of the room. 

The doors go to the cargo hold (2-11). 
The companionway goes to the main 
deck (2-1). The cabin's forward bulk 
head is a knockdown that can be lashed 
to the rooms center posts in order to open 
this area up and increase the size of the 
cargo hold. Castegere has the bulkhead 
set up to form a passenger cabin. The 
pile of canvas and cordage is actually a 
dozen hammocks that can be strung 
from iron hooks in the posts, bulkheads, 
and main ribs. There is a secret door in 
the center of the aft bulkhead leading to 
the hideaway (2-13). Only Gerry, Caste 
gere, and Bhuto know that it exists and 
that it is activated by pressing a loose 
plank in the deck at the same time that 
one pushes against the secret door. 


13. The Hideaway 


The forward bulkhead of this 4-foot 
by 24-foot area forms a false hull that 
seems clearly intended to fool customs 
inspectors. The area is empty. 

Castegere uses this secret hold to hide 
contraband-which on this trip includes 
only the PCs. A speaking tube next to the 
secret door allows persons inside the 
hideaway to speak with (and listen to) 
persons standing by the desk in the cap 
tain's cabin (2-9). 

14. The Bilges 


This area spans the length and beam 
of the ship and is filled to within two 
feet of the ceiling with wet sand. 

15. Crow's Nest 

About 10 feet from the top of the mast 
and 40 feet above the deck is a crow's 
nest that can accommodate three crew 
men. This eight-foot-diameter circular 
wooden platform has solid two-foot-high 
sides. The iron rungs set in the mast give 
access to it through a two-foot square 
hinged hatch, which can be locked from 
above by throwing a deadbolt. Brackets 
set in the mast hold a cased crossbow and 
a case of quarrels. When Blossom is at sea, 
a seaman armed with a cutlass stands 
watch here during the day. Anyone using 
missile fire to attack this area's occupants 
subtracts 3 from their To Hit die rolls (in 
addition to other adjustments). 

The Visit to Robinsport 

When Blossom reaches Robinsport, she 
ties up at circle Q(see below) next to an 
oak pier with her prow facing land and 
about 100 feet from the shore. There are 
no other vessel's nearby. 

As soon as the vessel heaves within 
sight of Robinsport, Castegere gathers 
the PCs together in the belowdecks aft 
cabin (2-12) and shows them the hide 
away (2-13). He then orders them to 
enter that area with their gear and not to 
make any noise or leave the hideaway 


until he calls for them. Once the Afridhi 
customs inspectors leave, they can come 
out. Castegere now reveals his plan for 
getting the PCs on and off his vessel. 
Read this passage aloud: 


"Once dem customs nosies be gone, my 
boys empty out ta' cider from some o' 
dem barrels in ta' hold. Cider goes 
down inta ta' bilge. You an' yer' kit go 
inta ta' empty barrels. Barrels get 
unloaded as cargo. Cargo goes inta' 
warehouse jes' by dock. Once inside, 
crew unpacks barrels. Happy passen 
gers leave warehouse-mingle wit' 
local crowds-now dey jes' good little 
Robin'port lubbers out fer momin' 
stroll. Ready t' leave, go t' main gate. 
Spin a tale. Out ya' go. Slickers. 

"Time t' go home, ya' watch fer 
Blossom. Sec her at dock, ya' let me see 
you. I tell Bhuto. Bhuto tell you. Jes' 
do what he say. We do ta' rest. All fair 
weather." 


Having passed on these instructions, the 
captain ushers the PCs into the hideaway 
and makes sure that the secret door is 
tighdy shut behind them. As soon as 
Blossom docks at Robinsport, a group of 
six Afridhi soldiers are stationed on the 
upper decks (see the Deck Plan Key), 
and three Afridhi customs officers come 
aboard to inspect the cargo. When the 
cargo has been inspected, the three 
agents stand by the hatch on the main 
deck (2-1) and tally what is unloaded. 

Customs Agents (3): AC 9; HD 1; hp 4 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 
(dagger); Save as Normal Man; ML 
6; AL C; XP 5 each. 

It takes 3-6 hours for the ship to dock and 
the customs inspectors to finish. Empty 
ing the barrels and packing the PCs in 
them takes another hour. Hauling the 
barrels out of the hold, rolling them to a 
warehouse in circle Qand unpacking the 
PCs takes another 2-5 hours. Thus, 5-12 
hours after sighting Robinsport, the PCs 
can start exploring the town. 

There is a 2 % chance that the Afridhi 


14 






THE JOURNEY TO THE WEST 


customs agents discover the hideaway 
during their inspection. There is a 1% 
chance that an improperly secured lid 
falls off one of the barrels containing a 
PC while that barrel is being rolled down 
the gangplank onto the dock. If a barrel 
comes open, there is a 50% chance that 
none of the Afridhi nodces so long as the 
PC stays in the barrel and keeps quiet. If 
anything happens to arouse the suspi 
cions of the Afridhi customs agents (or if 
the agents are attacked), they call the 
topside guards and order the arrest of 
everyone aboard Blossom. One of the 
main deck guards then runs to fetch help, 
returning with a section of Afridhi troops 
(per a 3 result on the CRISIS HAZARD 
TABLE) within 1-4 turns. 

If there is a melee aboard Blossom while 
it is in port or if it becomes clear that the 
Afridhi are going to be able to link the 
vessel with smuggling or with the death 
or disappearance of their soldiers or cus 
toms agents, then Castegere orders his 
crew to defend the vessel and puts to sea. 
Only if he is opposed by overwhelming 
strength and is unable to put to sea will 
he surrender. 

If Castegere is forced to surrender, he 
will attempt to join forces with the PCs, 
seeing this as his best hope of escaping and 
regaining his vessel. At your option, he 
may even propose that he and his crew 
help the PCs accomplish their mission in 
exchange for the PCs' help in recapturing 
Blossom at the end of the adventure. If he 
and the PCs part company, then Castegere 
and his crew hide in Robinsport looking 
for a chance to retake Blossom. If the PCs 
reenter Robinsport during this adventure 
and any of Blossom's crew arc still alive and 
free, then one of the crew finds them and 
proposes that PCs and crew steal the ship 
from the Afridhi and leave the Duchy 
together. 

If Castegere flees from Robinsport, he 
never returns. If the PCs are on board 
when he flees, he drops them at Fcl and 
returns to Blackmoor to pick up his fee 
for the first half of the job. They will have 
to get into and out of the Duchy on their 
own. 

Any irregularities involving Blossom , 
her passengers, or her crew cause the 


Afridhi to impound die vessel and arrest 
everyone on board. The Afridhi soldiers 
listed on the Deck Plan Key become its 
only occupants. Everyone else is hauled 
off to the hall of justice in circle D, where 
they undergo a brief examination by one 
of the Sisters of Fire. Seeing that these 
are important prisoners, she orders that 
they be taken immediately to Tbr Kur- 
ram to be examined by Toska Rusa 
before being routinely put to death. 

The Chase Flow Chart 

The town of Robinsport is a vast area, 
far too large to be described in detail in 
this module. However, this town (in fact, 
any town or city visited during this 
adventure) can be explored using a spe 
cial mapping device, called a Chase Flow 
Chart. You can use this device to repre 
sent an entire city without having to con 
struct a detailed map for it. 

The Chase Flow Chart is composed of 
two kinds of circles: those showing typical 
street intersections and those showing 
Hazard locations. The circles are connect 
ed by arrows. Next to each arrow is a num 
ber showing the number of feet between 
the circles connected by that arrow. Inside 
each circle is a letter that is identical to a let 
ter on the town's Location Key. This key 
shows what landmarks, buildings, and 
events are found at each lettered circle; the 
contents in each circle may change from 
one town to the next. However, since 
Robinsport is the only town in the Duchy 
of Ten that the PCs are expected to enter, 
only the key for Robinsport is included in 
this module. Modify the key as necessary 
for use in other towns. 

Ten of the circles on the Chase Flow 
Chart are numbered; these are starting 
places. Whenever a chase begins at some 
undefined location or the PCs are just 
wandering the streets, roll Id 10. Start in 
the circle that matches the die roll. 

The Location Key lists the important 
buildings located in each lettered circle. If 
the PCs want to find a building whose loca 
tion you haven't defined, first decide if the 
building exists, then either choose a loca 
tion or roll Id 10 to get a random location 
for it. Characters can ask passersby for 


directions, look for street signs, go into 
shops and ask for assistance, or otherwise 
explore until they find what they're look 
ing for. Once they find something, its loca 
tion becomes fixed; note it on the Location 
Key so that the PCs can find it again. 

Only important shops and buildings 
are listed on the Location Key. Resi 
dences are everywhere; the streets are 
clogged with people during the daytime. 
At night, parties of 4-8 Afridhi soldiers 
patrol them, and far fewer citizens are 
about. If the PCs become involved in a 
melee, they attract the attention of the 
entire neighborhood. Within one turn, 
20-80 Afridhi soldiers arrive. Afridhi 
civilians help them track down the PCs, 
but Tenian civilians hide the PCs if they 
can do so unobserved. 

ROBINSPORT LOCATION KEY 

A. Tanner, Leather Worker, Stable. 

B. Butcher, Cobbler, General Store. 

C. Constable, Tax Gatherer, Scribe. 

D. Lord Mayor's Palace, Hall of 
Justice, Prison, Afridhi (ex- 
Tenian) Temple. 

E. Afridhi Residence, Grocer, 
Afridhi (ex-Tenian) Temple. 

F. Stonecutter, Brickmaker, Tile- 
maker. 

G. Candlemaker, Lampmaker, 
Lumber Mill. 

H. Inn, Stable, Winemaker, Gold 
smith. 

I. Alchemist, Barber, Florist, Tai 
lor. 

J. Perfumer, Dyer, Jeweler, Beauty 
Shop. 

K. HAZARD, Tenian Residences, 
Tavern, Open-Air Market, Pup 
pet Show. 

L. Tavern, Bellmaker, Glazier. 

M. HAZARD, Residences, Butcher, 
Stable. 

N. Dairy, Glassblower, Jeweler. 

P. Butcher, Herbalist, Bakery, Hat- 
maker. 

Q. Docks, Shipwright, Warehouses. 

R. HAZARD, Fishmarket, Chan 
dler. 

S. Outdoor Market, Bazaar, Tavern, 
Merchants' Guild Hall (empty). 


15 




THE JOURNEY TO THE WEST 


T. Inn, Stable, Magic Shop, Afridhi 
Barracks (ex-Tenian Temple). 

U. Alchemist, Potter, Thieves' Guild 
Hall, Clandestine Moneylender. 

V. Docks, Wine Shop, Weaver, Tailor. 

W. Woodworker, Scribe, Clandestine 
Temple of Thonian High Church. 

X. Weaver, Sailmaker, Candlemaker. 

Y. Blacksmith, Tavern, Stable (ex- 
Tenian Temple), Secret Degcm 
Recruiter. 

Z. Town Gates, Tax Gatherer. 

Hazards: A Hazard is an obstacle or 
event that alTects play. Some circles have 
the word HAZARD in them, and a HAZ 
ARD result is shown opposite certain let 
ters on the Location Chan. If the PCs 
enter a Hazard circle when not involved 
in a chase or crisis, roll ld4 and apply the 
result on the EVERYDAY HAZARD 
TABLE. If they enter a Hazard circle 
during a crisis situation, or when they 
are pursuing or being pursued by some 
one, roll ld4 and apply the result on the 
CRISIS HAZARD TABLE. 

Pursuit Situations: If the PCs are flee 
ing or chasing someone, see the Chase 
Flow Chan. The distance between each 
circle is shown in feet. Use the encounter 
speed (feet per round) for PCs and their 
opponents. Running speed is three times 
encounter speed. 

First determine in which direction the 
pursuit is going. Then determine which 
side is faster. Find the difference in speed 
between the two groups. 

During each round of the chase, first 
figure out how far the party in the lead 
travels. Then use the speed difference 
between the parties to find out if the pur 
suer gains or loses ground. If the pursuer 
catches up, a melee takes place. 

Each time the lead party comes to a 
circle with a branching intersection, it 
escapes its pursuers if the distance 
between its destination circle and the 
previous circle is less than the distance 
between the two parties. 

The fleeing party can try to duck into a 
building or otherwise shake pursuers. The 
base chance of success is 5 % + 5 % for eve 
ry 10 feet separating the two parties. Secret 


ly roll the dice to determine the attempt's 
success. If the roll fails, the pursuers spot 
their quarry entering the building. 

EVERYDAY HAZARD TABLE 

1 The PCs encounter an Afridhi press 
gang, consisting of nine Afridhi sol 
diers (AC 5; HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8; Save FI; 
ML 9; AL C; XP 10 each) and one 
Afridhi officer (AC 5; HD 2; hp 10; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8; Save 
F2; ML 11; AL C; XP 20). The 
Afridhi wear chain mail and carry 
swords. They have eight Tenian pris 
oners (AC 9; HD 1; hp 4 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT None; D None; Save 
as Normal Man; ML 6; AL N; XP 5 
each) in leg irons. Each prisoner car 
ries two extra sets of irons. 

There is a 50% chance that the 
Afridhi stop the PCs and inquire as to 
their place of residence, their business 
in the town, etc. If the PCs' answers 
fail to satisfy the officer in charge of the 
press gang, he has his men try to 
impress the PCs and send them to Tor 
Kurram. They first loot the PCs' pos 
sessions and then put them in the spare 
leg irons that are being carried by the 
Tenian prisoners. 

2 The PCs encounter an Afridhi patrol, 
consisting of six Afridhi civilian consta 
bles (AC 7; HD 1; hp4each; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-8; Save FI; ML 10; 
AL C; XP 10 each). The Afridhi wear 
leather armor and carry swords. 
Unless the PCs attack the patrol or look 
extremely suspicious, the constables 
ignore them. 

3 The PCs arc accosted by a ragged beg 
gar with only one arm, a patch over 
one eye, and a collection of disgusting, 
suppurating sores (AC 9; HD 2; hp 10; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4; Save F2; 
ML 6; AL N; XP 20). The beggar 
whiningly asks for "alms for a soldier 
a' ta' Duchy what 'as fallen on 'ard 
times." He follows the PCs and loudly 
continues his pitch until given at least 
one gold piece. The beggar carries a 
dagger hidden in his rags. 


4 The PCs encounter a former Tenian 
police snitch (AC 9; HD 3; hp 15; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4; Save F3; ML 
10; AL L; XP 35) who sometimes sells 
information to the Afridhi constables. 
The Tenian is disguised as a tinker. He 
carries a dagger hidden under his 
clothes. There is a 75% chance that he 
knows the PCs to be strangers and 
decides to tail them to see what they're 
up to. If he decides to tail them, he does 
so for the rest of the time the PCs are in 
town. If he notices them doing any 
thing suspicious, he goes off to tell the 
constables, and the PCs encounter a 
party of them within 3-6 turns per a 2 
result above. If Gregor or Stout Robin 
notice the man (roll of 6 on ld6 once 
per day), they know him for a traitor. 

CRISIS HAZARD TABLE 

1 The PCs encounter an Afridhi 
patrol, consisting of eight Afridhi 
civilian constables (AC 7; HD 1; hp 4 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8; 
Save FI; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 
each). The Afridhi wear leather 
armor and carry swords. They try to 
arrest the PCs. 

2 Riot! Hundreds of Tenian citizens, 
Afridhi civilians, constables, and 
Afridhi foot soldiers are embroiled in 
a mob scene at this spot. The PCs can 
force their way through the confused 
mass of milling people at the rate of 
10' per round. There is a 25% 
chance per round that pursuers will 
lose sight of the lead party. 

3 The PCs encounter an Afridhi 
patrol, consisting of 19 Afridhi sol 
diers (AC 5; HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8; Save FI; 
ML 9; AL C; XP 10 each) and one 
Afridhi officer (AC 5; HD 2; hp 10; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8; Save 
F2; ML 11; AL C; XP 20). The 
Afridhi wear chain mail and carry 
swords. If the PCs are being pur 
sued, the soldiers try to capture 
them. Otherwise, you determine 
what the soldiers do. 


16 




THE JOURNEY TO THE WEST 


4 Roadblock! The PCs encounter an 
Afridhi checkpoint, consisting of sev 
eral comandeered carts pulled across 
the street to block it except for a nar 
row walkway. A group of nine 
Afridhi soldiers (AC 5; HD 1; hp 6 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT I; D 1-6 or 
1-8; Save FI; ML 9; AL C; XP 10 
each) and one Afridhi officer (AC 5; 
HD 2; hp 10; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; 
D 1-8; Save F2; ML 11; AL C; XP 
20) man the checkpoint. The Afridhi 
wear chain mail and carry swords. 
The soldiers also have crossbows. 
They are stopping and questioning 
all characters who want to pass the 
roadblock. 

The Overland Journey 

Run the journey through the Duchy of 
Ten using the D&D(r) Expert Set, but 
modify those rules as follows. 

1. Use the ENCOUNTER CHANCE 
TABLE in this module to determine how 
often you must check for encounters and 
what die roll result causes an encounter. 

2. Use the land Encounter Tables in this 
module to determine exactly what the 
PCs encounter during their journey. 

3. Use MAP 1: THE NORTHLANDS 

to keep track of where the PCs arc. 

4. Use the material found in THE 
PLOT TWISTS to enrich play of this 
journey. 

The PCs can leave Robinsport either as 
free men or as Afridhi captives. If free, 
they can follow any desired path, but will 
have to travel in disguise. Unless they 
manage to acquire Afridhi garments and 
can approximate Afridhi physical 
appearance (squat and squarely built 
with olive complexions and black hair 
and eyes), they will have to travel dis 
guised as Tenians. 

If disguised as Tenians, they must 
observe certain laws. They can use pack 
animals and draft animals, but aren't 
allowed to ride (penalty for doing so: loss 
of eyes). They must always speak courte 
ously to any Afridhi no matter how 


obnoxious the individual (penalty for 
failure to do so: loss of tongue). They 
must always step aside to let an Afridhi 
pass (penalty for failure to do so: loss of 
feet). They can't carry weapons or wear 
armor (penalty for doing so: loss of 
head). 

If the PCs leave Robinsport as Afridhi 
captives (whether as a result of arrest or 
press ganging), their possessions, includ 
ing clothing and jewelry, are all confis 
cated. Their only equipment is a single 
wineskin filled with water. The PCs wear 
leg irons and are shackled to a long heavy 
chain along with enough other captives 
to make a group of 24. If Blossom's crew 
have been arrested, they are the other 
captives on the chain. The captives are 
escorted by 11 mounted Afridhi soldiers 
and one sergeant: 

Afridhi Soldiers (11): AC 5 (chain mail); 
HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 120' (40'); 
#AT 1; D 1-6 (crossbow) or 1-8 
(sword); Save F2; ML 9; AL C; XP 
20 each. 

Afridhi Sergeant (1): AC 5 (chain mail); 
HD 4; hp 24; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; 
D 1-8 (sword); Save F4; ML 11; AL 
C; XP 75). 

Riding Horses (12): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 
each; MV 240' (80'); #AT 2 hooves; D 
1-4/1-4; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 

Captives (variable): AC 9; HD 1; hp 4 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 
fists; Save as Normal Man; ML 6; AL 
N; XP 5 each. 

The Afridhi march their captives all day 
with just one break at midday for a meal 
requisitioned from any farmhouse they 
happen to pass around noon. The eve 
ning meal is acquired in the same man 
ner. No breakfast is provided. The 
prisoners are never unshackled. At 
night, their chain is bound around a tree 
and they arc kept under guard by three 
members of the escort. On the march, 
the sergeant and seven soldiers ride in 
front of the PCs. Four others bring up 
the rear. The Afridhi take their captives 
to Tor Kurram by the most direct road 


from Robinsport south past the Barrier 
Swamp and the Wilds of Ten, then east 
past Starmorgan into the Barrens of 
Karsh. 

The Plot Twists 

You can use the following plot twists, at 
your discretion, to enrich play, keep the 
adventure moving, and balance events 
so that the PCs are challenged without 
being overwhelmed. 

1. Gerry's Romantic Development 

Preconditions: None. 

Description: Gerry Degem, who is a 
very impressionable young lady, 
develops a crush on one of the PCs. 

Mechanics: Initially, Gerry is just a bit 
curious about the PCs. This leads her to 
spend time talking to Uicm-and espe 
cially to whichever male PC has the high 
est charisma. By the last day of the 
voyage, she is thoroughly smitten (even 
if the PC doesn't encourage her in this), 
and is looking for a way to join the PCs 
on their mysterious "mission" so as to 
spend more time with the object of her 
affections. Whether or not she actually 
does so, she is willing to help the PCs in 
any way she can while they are in Robin 
sport. If Hieronymus learns of her inten 
tions, he first tries to argue her out of any 
involvement with the PCs. If this doesn't 
work (80% chance that he fails to change 
her mind), he has Bhuto cast a sleep spell 
on her and ties her up in her cabin, tell 
ing the PCs that she is ill. 

2. Hieronymus' Treachery 

Preconditions: None. However, this 
twist works well with #1. 

Description: Hieronymus Castcgcre 
plans to turn the PCs over to the Afridhi 
when they try to arrange a return pas 
sage. 

Mechanics: Believing that the PCs are 
unlikely to return from their journey 
anyway, Hieronymus decides to make a 
little extra money from his knowledge of 
them. If Gerry has developed a crush on 
one of the PCs, he may also want to stop 


17 




THE JOURNEY TO THE WEST 


them from having further contact with 
her. Once the PCs are ashore, he plans to 
go to the authorities and spin them a tale 
to the effect that Blackmoorian agents 
have just approached him seeking to 
arrange passage back to Blackmoor at 
some time a few weeks hence. He will 
then suggest that the Afridhi keep his 
vessel under surveillance when he is in 
port. That way, when the Blackmoorians 
reappear, he can point them out. The 
treacherous captain is certain that he can 
pry from the Afridhi a reward of at least 
1,000 gold pieces per PC. When added 
to the fee that he is getting from Black- 
moor for carrying them to the Duchy and 
waiting to pick them up, he could make a 
handsome profit on this deal. 

3. The PCs' Eavesdropping 

Preconditions: Use this plot twist only if 
the PCs discover the hideway (2-13) on 
their own. 

Description: The PCs overhear Gerry 
and Hieronymus arguing over Hierony 
mus' plan to betray them. 

Mechanics: When they find the hide 
away, the PCs also find the speaking tube 
connected to the captain's cabin (2-9). At 
that time, they hear Castegere enter the 
cabin and approach his desk while talk 
ing to Bhuto. He says nothing of interest, 
but if the PCs eavesdrop on succeeding 
days, they overhear Castegere and Gerry 
in a bitter argument. During the argu 
ment, Castegcre's plan becomes clear. 
Gerry finally gets Castegere to agree to 
drop his plan, though this does not mean 
that he really intends to do so. 

4. Sigurd Gustafson's 
Untimely Rescue 

Preconditions: Use this plot twist in the 
event that Blossom is sunk or the PCs arc 
separated from her during the voyage to 
Robinsport. 

Description: The PCs (and any mem 
bers of Blossom's crew who are with them) 
are picked from the sea by Skandaharian 
Raiders in Sigurd Gustafson's longship 
Ghost Maker. 


Mechanics: The Skandaharian Raiders 
are returning home after peddling the loot 
from their last raid at Bartertown. They 
come upon the PCs at sea and fish them 
out of the water, stripping them of their 
remaining possessions, and binding them 
with heavy chains. Since they must pass 
Robinsport on their way home, the captain 
elects to stop there long enough to sell the 
PCs to the Afridhi, who have lately been 
buying slaves for work on their big labor 
gangs. The captain's desire to keep the 
PCs in good shape for sale at Robinsport 
(plus the fact that most of the crew are tired 
and hungover after their successful raid) 
spares them any physical abuse. 

Gustafson's vessel is 90 feet long, 30 
feet abeam, and has a draught of just 
four feet. It is eight feet from the water 
line to the top of the gunwhalcs. The ves 
sel has 80 hull points. Its hull is AC 8. It 
has a capacity of 40,000 cn. Inside, the 
ship is really just an open boat, with 
seven-foot-high rowing benches beneath 
which are cubby holes that sleep up to 
three men stacked vertically. The for 
ward and aft ends of the vessel accommo 
date a seven-foot-high forecastle and 
poop deck, respectively. The PCs are 
chained to iron eyes set in the foredeck. 

The vessel's single mast has a large 
striped sail, but it is propelled mainly by 28 
oars pulled by 56 oarsmen (the number 
required for full speed in this type of long- 
ship). When the PCs are brought aboard, 
the sail is furled. Spiked to the mast are the 
heads of a dozen mermen and an equal 
number of dolphins. Most goods arc stored 
in a shallow space atop the ballast beneath 
the removable deck planks, but there are 
two large, locked chests on the poop deck. 
One of them holds 3,000 gold pieces; the 
other holds 2,000 electrum pieces and 
1,000 platinum pieces. 

MAP 4: THE LONGSHIP GHOST 
MAKER shows the general layout of 
Ghost Maker. The vessel is currently 
crewed by Captain Sigurd Gustafson 
and 75 Skandaharians. 

Sigurd Gustafson: AC 4 (chain mail and 

shield); HD 10; hp 50; MV 90' (30'); 

#AT 1; D 1-8 (batde axe); Save F10; 

ML 11; ALC; XP 900. 


Skandaharians (75): AC 4 (chain mail 
and shield); HD 4; hp 20 each; MV 
90' (30'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (battle axe); 
Save F4; ML 9; AL C; XP 75 each. 

If the PCs (and members of Blossom's 
crew) reach Robinsport as Skandaharian 
captives, they are sold to an Afridhi slave 
factor at dockside (circle Q) and are 
immediately dispatched to Tor Kurram 
as sacrifices under the conditions 
described in THE OVERLAND 
ADVENTURE 

5. Stout Robin's Recruitment 

Preconditions: Use this twist only if the 
PCs are not captives during their visit to 
Robinsport. 

Description: Stout Robin Goodfellow, 
the master of the Robinsport Thieves' 
Guild and a leading member of the 
Tenian resistance, joins the PC party. 

Mechanics: Among those to whom 
"messages have...gone ahead" is Stout 
Robin. So when the PCs reach Robin 
sport, he is on the lookout for them. If the 
PCs are free when they enter the town, 
Stout Robin approaches them in the 
streets and suggests a private talk "in 
which you will hear something of advan 
tage." If Gregor is with the party, he 
immediately recognizes Stout Robin and 
enjoins the PCs to comply with the 
request. When they are alone in a local 
tavern, he informs the PCs that Tenian 
spies have reported that Toska Rusa is 
encamped at Tor Kurram and that what 
ever is supposed to happen there is 
almost ready. He also tells them that 
numerous efreet have been observed 
around Tor Kurram, and offers them the 
loan of a ring of fire resistance belonging to 
his guild. 

Since he has to "go south on business, 
anyway," Stout Robin offers to join the 
PCs for part of their journey. If they 
agree, he travels with them at least as far 
as the crossroads in hex 1521 of MAP 1. 
If, by that time, the PC party is in diffi 
culty (having lost key equipment or char 
acters), there is an 80% chance that 
Stout Robin postpones his "business" 
and accompanies them to Tor Kurram. 


18 



THE JOURNEY TO THE WEST 


6. Degern's Ambush 

Preconditions: Use this twist only if the 
PCs are being taken from Robinsport to 
Tor Kurram as captives. 

Description: Warned of the PCs' plight 
and informed that their mission is of 
utmost importance, the rebel leader 
Degem makes a raid into the very heart 
of the Duchy to rescue them. 

Mechanics: Stout Robin or some other 
member of the Robinsport Thieves' 
Guild observes the PCs being led from 
the town in chains. Knowing that 
Degem is even now raiding into the Bar 
rier Swamp, the Guild sends messengers 
to locate him. When they do so, he 
agrees to rescue the PCs and sets up an 
ambush at the very edge of the swamp, 
where the road runs closest to it (hex 
1719 of MAP 1). MAP 5: DEGERN'S 
AMBUSH shows how Degern deploys a 
force of 12 of his household guard, his 
physician, his chaplain, and 20 allied 
Brothers of the Greenwood to ambush 
the Afridhi escort and free the captives. 
The Brothers of the Greenwood have the 
following characteristics: 

Brother of the Greenwood (20): AC 7 
(leather armor); HD 3; hp 18 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long 
bow or short sword); Save F3; ML 8; 
AL L; XP 35 each. 

Degem, his physician, his chaplain, and 
his household guard are described in 
ROGUES, REGENTS & RACSALS. 
They are till mounted on warhorses: 

War Horses (15): AC 7; HD 3; hp 15 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 2 hooves; D 
1-6/1-6; Save F2; ML 9; AL N; XP 
35 each. 

According to Degem's plan, when the 
Afridhi escort reaches the point shown 
on the map, seven Brothers (A) will rush 
forward to protect the captives while 
Degem, his chaplain, his physician, and 
nine of his household guard (B) charge 
the Afridhi at the head of the column. 
Three other guardsmen (C) will block 
the road to prevent any escape. The oth 
er Brothers of the Greenwood will use 


arrows to cut down the Afridhi. 

Once the captives are rescued, Degern 
takes them to a secret camp on the fringe 
of the Barrier Swamp (hex 1418 of MAP 
1) where his raiding parties are to ren 
dezvous before fighting their way back to 
their base camp in The Glens. While 
Degern awaits his men, he speaks with 
the PCs concerning their mission and 
what he can do to help them. Degern 
must return to The Glens to continue 
building his army, but he will help them 
in any way that doesn't interfere with 
that aim. This includes giving them 
food, armor, weapons, equipment, and 
mounts. In addition, though he has no 
magical weapons to spare, his physician 
has a case of potions that he will give the 
PCs. This case holds one potion of fire 
resistance plus 3-8 other randomly selected 
potions from the D&D(r) Expert Set's sub- 
table d (Pouons). 

7. The Brothers' Coup 

Preconditions: Use this twist the first 
time that the PCs randomly encounter 
any Brothers of the Greenwood. 

Description: A group of Brothers gives 
the PCs a map of Tor Kurram. 

Mechanics: The PCs meet some Broth 
ers of the Greenwood who have just 
scouted Tor Kurram and are now taking 
to Robinsport a map showing the result. 


Their mission is a direct result of the 
messages that Gregor "sent ahead" from 
Blackmoor. If Gregor is along, they rec 
ognize him and treat him as a comrade. 
Otherwise, the PCs may have to con 
vince them that they arc on the same 
side. If convinced that the PCs are allies 
who need to know about Tor Kurram, 
allow the PCs to see MAP 6: TOR 
KURRAM. 

8. Kridor's Quest 

Preconditions: None. 

Description: Kridor the Sollux meets 
the PCs and asks to join their party. 

Mechanics: Drawn to the Barrens of 
Karsh by a gathering of efreet, the Sun 
Brother Kridor the Sollux is seeking to 
locate and destroy this concentration of 
his hereditary enemies. He encounters 
the PCs while both he and they arc scout 
ing Tor Kurram. Kridor knows that the 
efreet he is seeking arc inside the hill. If 
he deduces (80% chance) or learns from 
the PCs that the party is trying to get 
inside the hill, he offers to show them a 
secret way in if they will take him along. 
If they agree, he shows them the chimney 
(6-8) leading into the volcano. 

Kridor the Sollux: AC 0; HD 14; hp 100; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; 1-8 (sword); 
Save F14; ML 9 (12); AL L; XP 
2500. 



19 






THE FORGE AT TOR KURRAM 


The Forge at Tor Kurram consists of two 
separate areas: the exterior of the hill, 
described in THE HILL OF THE 
HAMMER, and the excavation, 
described in THE TEMPLE FORGE 

The Hill of the Hammer 

The country around Tor Kurram is bar 
ren, rocky hill country. There is little 
water, and the only natural vegetation is 
a variety of two-foot-high scrub brush. 
The brush and the large boulders and 
rock formations in the area make it easy 
for man-sized figures to travel in secret, 
so long as they are careful to stay under 
cover. 

Due to the difficulty of detecting ene 
mies in this terrain, the Afridhi have two 
camps and three watchtowcrs atop Tor 
Kurram. Persons moving in the open in 
daylight within sight of a camp or watch- 
tower are detected, causing an alarm to 
be raised. Those who stay in areas con 
taining brush or boulders or who are 
moving through open areas have a 30% 
chance of being detected if they are with 
in 30 yards of a camp or within 90 yards 
of a watchtower. 

The road to the temple forge follows a 
narrow ravine, meandering along beside 
a tiny stream until it reaches the western 
face of Tor Kurram. The hill, itself, is 
crisscrossed with trails built by the 
Afridhi to carry their foot patrols. Two 
encampments on opposite sides of the hill 
house 200 Afridhi soldiers, 10 Sisters of 
Fire, and 20 Handmaidens of Death. 
There are patrols everywhere. Each turn 
that a party crosses or travels along a 
trail, there is a 20% chance that they 
encounter (and are automatically delect 
ed by) an Afridhi foot patrol. Each turn 
that a party spends within 30 yards of a 
trail, there is a 20% chance that an 
Afridhi foot patrol passes by. If they are 
still and under cover, there is only a 5% 
chance that the patrol detects their pres 
ence. If they are moving under cover, 
there is a 10% chance of detection. If 
they are in the often, they are automati 
cally detected. Afridhi foot patrols con 
sist of four soldiers: 


Soldiers (4); AC 5 (chain mail); HD 2; 
hp 10 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 
1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL C; 
XP 20 each. 

During the first round of any melee that 
is taking place within 150 yards of a 
watchtower or camp, there is a 40% 
chance that the melee is detected by 
someone who raises the alarm. Thereaf 
ter, there is an 80% chance each round 
that the alarm is raised. If the melee is 
taking place within 100 yards of the near 
est camp or watchtower, increase these 
percentages by 10; if within 50 yards, 
increase them by 20 instead. 

If an alarm is raised, a party of 19 
Afridhi soldiers and one officer arrives 
within one turn and tries to capture the 
characters who caused the alarm. If the 
characters are gone, the soldiers search 
the area, making it impossible to move 
normally within 90 yards of them with 
out being detected. 

Soldiers (19): AC 5 (chain mail); HD 2; 
hp 12 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 
1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL C; 
XP 20 each. 

Officcr(l): AC 5 (chain mail); HD 3; hp 
15; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 
(sword); Save F3; ML 11; AL C; XP 
35. 

All of these rules concerning detection 
presume that the PCs aren't using magic 
to disguise or hide themselves. If the PCs 
are detected, the percentage chances of 
meeting and being detected by Afridhi 
patrols are doubled. In addition, the size 
of the patrols is tripled (from four to 12 
soldiers). 

If the PCs arc captives when diey 
arrive at Tor Kurram, they are locked in 
the slave pen (6-1) to await questioning 
and subsequent sacrifice. If captured 
after they reach Tor Kurram, they are 
first stripped of their possessions before 
being taken to the slave pen. In either 
event, the PCs and any accompanying 
NPCs are taken before Tbska Rusa at the 
Afridhi main camp (6-2) one day after 
their capture. After asking them half a 
dozen questions about themselves, she 


orders them taken to the cells inside the 
temple forge (8-4) and held for sacrifice 
that very evening. If Castegere and his 
crew are with the PCs, they are returned 
to the slave pen and held for sacrifice on 
another day. 

MAP 6: TOR KURRAM shows the 
main features of the Hill of the Hammer. 
They are described below. 

1. Slave Pen 

This 60-foot-square open compound is 
surrounded by a thrcc-foot-thick, 12- 
foot-high stone wall topped with shards 
of pottery and sharp stones that do 1-4 
points of damage to anyone trying to 
climb over the top. Open 20-foot stone 
towers at each corner can be climbed via 
ladders set into their exteriors (outside 
the compound). The compound is 
entered via a 10-foot-wide bivalve oak 
gate in the middle of the western wall. 
Inside are 80 ragged, starving Tenian 
prisoners. Four soldiers guard the gate, 
and two others guard each tower. 

Guards (12): AC 5 (chain mail); HD 2; 
hp 12 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 
1-6 (crossbow) or 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 10; AL C; XP 20 each. The 
guards routinely use their crossbows 
against any captives who come within 
10 feet of the walls or gate. A chalkline 
in the earth (called the deadline) marks 
the point at which the guards will start 
shooting. 

Tcnians (80): AC 9; HD 1; hp 4 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 (fist); 
Save as Normal Man; ML 12; AL N; 
XP 5 each. When the PCs reach Tor 
Kurram, the Tenian captives, who 
know that they arc already dead men, 
are preparing to make a suicidal 
attempt to storm the wall. While some 
brave volunteers form a human pyra 
mid, others will climb up their backs 
to the top of the wall and escape. They 
know that most of them will be killed 
in the attempt, but consider it the only 
way for anyone to survive. Having 
already resigned themselves to death, 
their morale is 12. 

If the PCs are incarcerated in the slave 


20 




THE FORGE AT TOR KURRAM 



pen and the Tenians discover why they 
have come to Tor Kurram, there is an 
80% chance that they will offer to help 
the PCs escape so that they can accom 
plish their mission. In this way, they can 
accomplish some good by the loss of their 
own lives. If the PCs arm 7 incarcerated 
in the slave pen or if they escape in some 
other way, then the Tenians launch their 
planned jail break just as the PCs enter 
the interior of Tor Kurram. This has the 
same effect as if an alarm were raised; it 
also draws all Afridhi out of the main 
camp (6-2). 

If Castegere and his crew are in the 
slave pen when the escape takes place, 
they scrabble over the backs of those 
making the pyramid and escape into the 
wilderness, eventually making their way 
back to Robinsport in hopes of retaking 
Blossom. 

2. Main Camp 

The main camp contains 30 bell-shaped 
tents. Eight of these contain stores. Four 
teen house 10 Afridhi soldiers each. One 
tent houses 10 Sisters of Fire, another 10 
Afridhi officers, and another houses 
Toska Rusa, who is here to see the final 
activation of the Well of Souls. Sur 
rounding these three tents arc five tents 
housing five Handmaidens of Death 
each. To the southwest of the tents are 
two long horse lines at which are picketed 
70 riding horses. Since the camp pro 
vides guards for slave pen and temple 
forge, sentries for the three watchtowers, 
and soldiers for patrols, it is never full. 
Usually, it holds Toska Rusa (who is 
described in ROGUES, REGENTS & 
RASCALS) plus: 

Soldiers (100): AC 5 (chain mail); HD 2; 
hp 12 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 
1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL C; 
XP 20 each. 

Officers (9): AC 5 (chain mail); HD 3; 
hp 15 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 
1-8 (sword); Save F3; ML 11; AL C; 
XP 35 each. 

Handmaidens of Death (15): AC 4 
(chain mail and shield); HD 9; hp 45 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 


(sword); Save F9; ML 12; AL C; XP 
900 each. 

Sisters of Fire (10): AC 9; HD 5; hp 25 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(mace); Save C5; ML 11; AL C; XP 
175 each. Each sister knows the cleric 
spells cure light wounds, detect evil, bless, 
and resist fire. 

Riding Horses (70): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 2 hooves; D 
1-4/1-4; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 

Looting this camp nets the PC's a mere 
1,000 gold pieces (plus any jewelry worn 
by Handmaidens of Death for whom 
they account). 

3. The East Camp 

This camp consists of 10 bell-shaped 
tents. Five house 10 soldiers each. One 
houses three officers. The others hold 
stores. The officers and 40 of the soldiers 
are in camp except when they arc beating 
the bushes during alarms. 

Soldiers (40): AC 5 (chain mail); HD 2; 
hp 12 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 
1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL C; 
XP 20 each. 

Officers (3): AC 5 (chain mail); HD 3; 
hp 15 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 
1-8 (sword); Save F3; ML 11; AL C; 
XP 35 each. 


Looting this camp nets the PCs a mere 
100 gold pieces. 

4. Upper Gate 

The gate leading into the interior of Tor 
Kurram is reached by a 30-yard-wide 
passage between steep rock piers formed 
by piling up the spoil from the Afridhi 
excavation. The gate's two-foot-thick, 
fivc-foot-wide doors are always closed 
and barred from the inside. A barred 
foot-square port in the left-hand gate lets 
the guards inside see out. 

5-7. Watch Towers 

Two watchmen patrol the open top of 
each 20-foot-tall stone watchtowcr. A 
ladder leaning against one side provides 
a means of getting to the top. 

Watchmen (2): AC 5 (chain mail); HD 2; 
hp 12 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 
1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL C; 
XP 20 each. 

8. The Chimney 

In building the forge inside Tor Kurram, 
the Afridhi found it necessary to have 
some extra ventilation, so they cut a 
three-foot-square, 160-foot-high chim 
ney straight as an arrow through the liv 
ing rock. Since they deem it unlikely that 
anyone can climb down the chimney due 
to the great heat emanating from it and 
also because the feature is somewhat hid 
den by the hill's hollow crown, the 


21 



THE FORGE AT TOR KURRAM 


Afridhi don't bother to guard this 
entrance. 

Anyone trying to climb down the 
chimney sustains 3-12 points of damage 
from fire for each 40 feet climbed. A ring 
of fire resistance, potion of fire resistance, or 
resistfire spell negates this effect. The bot 
tom of the chimney is 30 feet above the 
level of the temple forge (8-6) and about 
six feet east of it. Directly below the 
chimney is an additional 200-foot drop 
into a lake of burning lava. Characters 
who fall into the lava die instantly, leav 
ing no body to be raised from the dead. 
Due to the temperatures involved, this 
effect is in no way mitigated by a ring of 
fire resistance, potion of fire resistance, or fire 
resistance spell. Only entities with an 
affinity for the element of fire (efreets, 
sollux, etc.) are immune to the effects of 
the lava. 

The Temple Forge 

The temple forge is cut through solid 
igneous rock, and all walls, floors, and 
ceilings consist of unfinished stone. The 
numbered descriptions below refer to 
numbered areas on the two maps of the 
temple forge, MAP 7: THE UPPER 
GATE and MAP 8: THE LOWER 
LEVEL. Do not check for random 
encounters inside the temple forge. 
However, if any NPCs inside the temple 
forge become aware that the PCs are 
loose inside and manage to escape to the 
outside of the hill, they raise the alarm. 
Thereafter, Toska Rusa, 1-10 of the Sis 
ters of Fire and all 15 of the Handmaid 
ens of Death in the main camp enter the 
temple forge within one turn and begin a 
room-by-room search for the PCs. 

The Upper Gate 

MAP 7 shows this level. All areas on this 
level are 20-feet high. 

1. The Guardroom 


The east and west walls of this 20-foot 
by 30-foot room each contain a 
bivalve oak gate. A rude table and 
four chairs occupy the northern half of 


the room. The room's only light 
comes from a large lamp hanging 
from a chain in the ceiling over that 
table. Beside the light is a bell. There 
are five armed Afridhi in the room. 


The gate in the west wall is the main gate 
leading to the surface of Tor Kurram. It 
is barred from the inside with a 200- 
pound oak beam. The gate in the east 
wall has a simple latch and is unlocked. A 
secret door in the east wall is activated by 
twisting a knob of rock. It leads to the 
chain room (7-2). The bell is operated by 
the pull rope in the lift room (7-5), and is 
used by those who want to have the 
guards pull in the basilisk's chain (see 
below). There is a deck of Afridhi tarot 
cards atop the table. The five Afridhi are 
Handmaidens of Death who have orders 
not to let anyone in or out of the temple 
without the direct order of Sher Yakub. 

Handmaidens of Death (5): AC 4 (chain 

mail and shield); HD 9; hp 45 each; 

MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); 

Save F9; ML 12; ALC: XP 900 each. 

2. The Chain Room 


This cubbyhole is lit by a single torch 
beside the door. It contains a vertical 
ly mounted drum around which is 
wrapped a heavy chain, one end of 
which disappears through a two-inch 
hole in the room's soudi wall. A han 
dle on the south side of the drum can 
be used to turn it. 


The chain is used to pull the basilisk in 
the beast cubby (7-4) away from the cur 
tains when someone wants to negotiate 
the upper corridor (7-3). It takes two 
normal men to turn the drum. As soon as 
they start to pull in the chain, they meet 
strong resistance and hear a dim hissing 
through the hole in the wall. Unless the 
guards in the guardroom (7-1) temporar 
ily pull in the chain to let someone nego 
tiate the upper corridor, the basilisk's 
chain has enough play that he can leave 
the beast cubby and block the corridor. 


3. The Upper Corridor 


Four torches in iron brackets set in the 
south wall light this corridor. There is 
a bivalve oak gate at each end. 

The gate's latches are unlocked. Halfway 
down the corridor, the PCs come to a 
curtain concealing the beast cubby (7-4). 
If they listen carefully, they can hear the 
hissy exhalations of the waiting basilisk. 
If its chain hasn't been pulled in, the bas 
ilisk leaps into the corridor and attacks 
just as the PCs reach this curtain. 

4. The Beast Cubby 


Pulling back the curtain reveals a rude 
15-foot-square cubbyhole. It is pres 
ently occupied by a basilisk that is 
chained to the north wall. 


If the beast's chain is pulled in, it can't 
look through the curtain, but it can still 
turn to face it. Since it is kept ravenous, 
the basilisk is extremely cranky and, con 
sequently, has a morale of 11. 

Basilisk (1): AC 4; HD 6 + l**;hp49; 
MV 60' (20'); #AT 1 bite/1 gaze; D 1- 
10 + petrifaction; Save F6; ML 11; 
AL N; XP 950. 

5. The Lift Room 


This irregularly shaped room is 
roughly a 45-foot square. The south 
east comer holds a straw mattress, a 
small table and a chair. Recessed in 
the wall next to the chair is a small 
drum. A chain wrapped around the 
drum runs through a set of guides up 
the wall and across the ceiling, where 
it is linked to four other chains. These 
are connected to four gaunt individ 
uals huddled on a pile of straw. On the 
other side of the chair from the drum 
is a pull rope. But the largest item in 
the room is a roofed wooden platform 
in the northwest comer. A rope runs 
from a hole in the floor of the platform 
to a bell hanging from the roof. A 
chain attached to a large eye in the 


22 








THE FORGE AT TOR KURRAM 


roof runs through a set of ceiling 
guides to a drum turned by a capstan. 
Standing next to the drum is a troll. 

The platform is a lift. The four men in 
chains are its crew of captive Tenians. 
When the lift has to be lowered, the troll 
slave driver (who is paid by the Afridhi in 
man-flesh) lets out the chain to which 
they are attached so that they can turn 
the capstan. The bell is rung by those on 
the lower level when they want the lift 
raised or lowered. Normally, it is kept in 
the raised position. The pull rope by the 
drum is used to signal the guards in the 
guardroom (7-1) to pull in the basilisk 
and come to the lift room to escort some 
one outside. Pulling it causes one of the 
guards to appear in 2-5 minutes. 

Troll (1): AC 4; HD 6 + 3*; hp 50; MV 
120'(40');#AT 1; D 1-2 (fist); Save as 
Normal Man; ML 12; AL N; XP 5 
each. 

Tenians (4): AC 9; HD 1; hp 4 each; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-2 (fist); Save as 
Normal Man; ML 12; AL N; XP 5 
each. 

The Lower Level 

M AP 8 shows this level. All areas on this 
level are 30 feet high. The entire area is 
very warm. 

1. The Lower Corridor 


Spaced every 20 feet along alternate 
sides of this rock-walled corridor arc 
iron brackets holding torches. 

The corridor contains four normal doors 
and one secret door. Except for the door 
to the cells, all are unlocked. In an alcove 
in the corridor is a wall of finished stone 
flanked by two torches in iron brackets. 
This 10-foot-square area is incised with 
the words "there is no god but Zugzul." 
Anyone who stands before the area and 
speaks those words opens a secret door 
leading to the forge (8-6). The trick to 
opening the door is known to all persons 
inside the temple forge. The other side of 


the door is identical to this side (and 
opens in the same way). 

There are four Afridhi soldiers and a 
guard captain located at various points in 
the corridor. One soldier guards the lift 
(A). Available to back him up are 
another soldier and the guards captain, 
who occupy chairs flanking a table in a 
shallow cubbyhole (B). Two soldiers (C) 
guard the iron-barred door to the cells (8- 
4). If the PCs aren't brought to this level 
as captives, then the guards at C are 
found at B, instead. Trouble anywhere in 
the corridor draws all five men. 

Soldiers (4); AC 5 (chain mail); HD 2; 

hp 12 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 

1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 10; AL C; 

XP 20 each. 

The guard captain on the day the PCs 
enter this level is Dost Suwat, a member 
of an Afridhi male secret society that 
wants to overthrow the matriarchy. Dost 
is described in detail in ROGUES, 
REGENTS & RASCALS. If, and only if 
the PCs enter the level as prisoners and 
are unable to escape within 3-6 hours. 
Dost takes a hand in the adventure. 

As soon as he sees them, Dost Suwat 
realizes that they aren't ordinary pris 
oners and suspects why they are at Tor 
Kurram. But he must know for sure, so 
after some hours, he creates an opportu 
nity to talk with them. After a trip to the 
upper gate, he returns to his post 
announcing that "something isn't right 
up above," and orders all four soldiers in 
the hall to stand guard by the lift, 
announcing that he "will join them in a 
minute." When they have gone, he 
speaks with the PCs. If they confirm his 
suspicions, he frees them, joins their par 
ty, and leads them to the storeroom (8-5), 
where they can obtain arms and armor. 
He also shows them how to open a secret 
door that leads into the forge (8-6). For 
the rest of the adventure. Dost fights on 
the side of the PCs and shares their fate, 
escaping with them if possible. 


2. Gul Hadda's Quarters 


One corner of this 40-foot-long, 
roughly egg-shaped room holds a 
woven straw sleeping mat. There is 
no other recognizable furnishing. 
Instead, the floor is an untidy litter of 
scrolls, flasks, vials, and dirty dishes. 
The room is lit by a smoky oil lamp 
suspended from a chain in the center 
of the ceiling. 

These are Gul Hadda's quarters, but he 
is not present. Amid the litter of objects 
scattered about the floor are two spell 
scrolls. One contains the magic user 
spells confusion, cloudkill, and anti-magic 
shell. The other contains the magic user 
spells polymorph others , wall of stone, and 
stone to flesh. The vials also include one 
dose each of the following potions: fire 
resistance, flying, giant strength, human con 
trol, and speed. 

3. Umra Dir's Quarters 


This 30-foot-long, oval room is illu 
minated by a pair of oil lamps hanging 
from chains in the ceiling. There is a 
bed in the southwest comer and a 
carved oak chest against the north 
wall. 


These quarters belong to Umra Dir, but 
she is not present. The chest contains 
garments and toilet articles, including 
three robes of the type worn by the Sis 
ters of Fire. 

4. Cells 

There are seven cells in this area. Each is 
more or less circular and roughly five feet 
in diameter. Each cell is closed by an oak 
door barred from the outside. An iron- 
barred six-inch window is cut at eye level 
in the center of each door. Each cell is 
designed to hold two standing or squat 
ting prisoners for just a few hours at a 
time. Currently, all cells are empty. The 
only prisoners are already in the process 
of being sacrificed in the interests of the 
Well of Souls. The iron-barred door lead 
ing to this area opens to a key carried by 
the guard captain (Dost Suwat). 


23 






THE FORGE AT TOR KURRAM 


5. Storeroom 


This roughly 20-foot-square room is 
piled high with foundry tools, scrap 
lumber, barrels and tins containing 
substances of uncertain origin, and a 
plethora of other junk. 


Here the Afridhi and their servants have 
stored all of the items no longer needed 
in the great work of making the Well of 
Souls. Most of the items stashed here are 
worthless. However, the place holds a 
collection of weapons and armor forged 
during the testing that preceeded the cre 
ation of the artifact. In addition to any 
nonmagical metal weapon or item of 
metal armor that the PCs may want, the 
room contains some magical items 
forged with the aid of the efreet. These 
include a sword + 1, flames on command, a 
sword +1, energy drain, a mace +7, and 
two daggers + 7. The junk also hides six 
ingots of platinum, each of which is the 
equivalent of 400 platinum pieces. This 
room is unlit. 

6. The Forge 


The eastern half of this room is an emp 
ty, floorless cavern that drops away into 
some sort of pit. The western half is an 
open area whose ceiling is supported by 
four rock pillars. Here and there, the 
floor and walls contain deep holes as if 
brackets or machinery had recendy 


been removed. A pinnacle of rock juts 
out over the pit. At its base is a low dais 
on which rests a five-foot-tall, three- 
foot-diameter, silver-colored um whose 
exterior is incised with arcane symbols. 
Inside the um is a human being. His 
head and shoulders project above the lip 
of the um, and he struggles in the grip 
of two efreet. As you watch, a man in 
bluish garments plunges a glittering 
knife into the chest of the man inside the 
urn while another man and two efreet 
watch. At the end of the pinnacle stands 
a woman in a red robe with her arms 
outstretched in seeming ecstacy. The 
um now begins to glow with a greenish 
light. 

The PCs have just witnessed part of the 
process of creating the Well of Souls. The 
silver-colored urn is that artifact, a plati 
num "well" that is now almost complete. 
The "man in bluish garments" is Gul 
Hadda. The other man is Sher Yakub. 
The woman is Imra Dir. All three are 
described in ROGUES. REGENTS & 
RASCALS. 

If the PCs don't attack immediately, 
one of the three NPCs notices them and 
raises the cry, causing all three and the 
efreet to attack. Gul Hadda and Sher 
Yakub continue to fight until they see 
that the situation is hopeless. They then 
try to escape and raise the alarm. Imra 
Dir and the efreet fight until slain. 


Efreet (4): AC 3; HD 10*; hp 70; MV 

90' (30'), flying 240' (80'); #AT 1 fist; 
D 2-16; Save F15; ML 12; AL C; XP 

1,600 each. 

Though it doesn't have its full powers, 
the Well of Souls docs have two key 
defenses in place. First, anyone except a 
loyal servant of Zugzul, a sacrificial vic 
tim, or a PC immediately dies if he 
comes in contact with it. Anyone who is 
linked to it by contact with an object that 
is in contact with it suffers the same fate. 
The Well eats the person's soul; he can't 
be raised from the dead. The souls of 
those not yet bom (e.g. PCs) are invisi 
ble to the Well. It can't harm them. 

Second, the Well has an anii-magic shell, 
per the magic user spell of that name (but 
of infinite duration). This shell is automati 
cally dissipated when the Well eats a soul or 
releases a soul eater (see below). It is rees 
tablished at the start of the next round. 

Third, if it realizes that it is in danger 
(30% chance per round), the Well 
releases three to six soul eaters at the rate 
of one per round. The soul eaters attack 
those threatening the Well. If it is 
destroyed, they flee the Prime Plain seek 
ing new orders from their master, 
Zugzul. They return within 5-8 turns to 
help Toska Rusa hunt down those who 
destroyed the Well. The Well can only be 
destroyed by casting it into the lava pit 
(in which case, it immediately disappears 
in a flash of fire and a puff of smoke). 


24 



ENDING THE ADVENTURE 


The adventure ends in any of the follow 
ing situations: 

1. All of the PCs are killed. If you are 
playing a BLACKMOOR(tm) campaign, 
you will then need to introduce new 
characters to it. 

2. The PCs destroy the Well of Souls and 
escape from the Duchy of Ten, reaching 
any of the localities controlled by Black- 
moor. If you haven't played any previous 
modules in this series and are unfamiliar 
with the Northlands, then for purposes of 
this adventure, Blackmoor controls all of 
the localities east of the Misauga and 
north of Loch Gloomen and the Root 
River. Six days after the PCs reach any 
of these sites (other than Blackmoor, 
itself), a military escort of 100 soldiers 
arrives to take them back to the town of 
Blackmoor. With such a large escort, the 
PCs have no random encounters on their 
overland journey home. However, they 
can meet soul eaters as detailed below. 
When they arrive in Blackmoor, they are 
again installed at the Comeback Inn, 
where The Fetch arrives to hear their 
report. 

3. The PCs escape from the Duchy of 
Ten without destroying the artifact. Fol 
low the same routine as in 2, above, but 
without any possibility of encountering 
soul eaters. 

The Escape from Tor Kurram 

There are a variety of routes by which 
the PCs can escape from the Duchy of 
Ten. The most obvious way is to return 
to Robinsport and board Blossom. If the 
PCs know about Castegcre's treachery 
or if the vessel has been impounded, it 
may be necessary for them to sneak 
aboard at night. This may necessitate 
killing or disabling the Afridhi guards, 
though. If they don't want to risk Robin- 
sport, they can always travel overland to 
the Misauga and boat or raft across the 
river into the Great Dismal Swamp. 

Regardless of the route followed, if the 
PCs have entered Tor Kurram and been 
detected, the Afridhi are alerted to the 
PCs' presence, and attempt to intercept 


and kill them by all possible means. 
Increase the number of encounter checks 
that the PCs must make each day by 1. If 
the encounter check die roll result is a 6 
and the PCs are on land, they automati 
cally encounter an Afridhi cavalry patrol 
led by a Handmaiden of Death. 

Afridhi Cavalry Patrol (19): AC 4 (chain 
mail and shield); HD 1; hp 6 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
short bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save FI; 
ML 10; ALC; XP 10 each. 

Handmaiden of Death (1): AC 4 (chain 
mail and shield); HD 9; hp 45; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1 -8 (sword); Save 
F9; ML 12; ALC; XP 900. 

Riding Horses (20): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 
each; MV 240' (80'); #AT 2 hooves; D 
1-4/1-4; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 

If the PCs actually destroy the Well of 
Souls, then any surviving soul eaters 
pursue them during their escape. Check 
once per day per surviving soul eater to 
determine whether each soul eater finds 
them. In each case, roll ld4; if the result 
is 4, then the PCs encounter the soul 
eater. Immediately assign a number to 
each PC and roll a die of the lowest 
denomination that is equal to or greater 
than the number of surviving PCs; the 
PC whose number is rolled is the object 
of the soul eater's attack during this and 
all subsequent encounters with this par 
ticular soul eater. If the number rolled is 
not one assigned to a PC, then roll again 
until one PC is selected. 

Continue to check for encounters with 
soul caters each day until all soul eaters 
are dead or the PCs are inside the Come 
back Inn. Thereafter, continue to check 
for an encounter with each surviving soul 
eater during each day that the PC who is 
the object of that soul eater's attack is in 
Blackmoor and outside of the Comeback 
Inn. If a given soul eater has not been 
assigned a victim by the time the PCs get 
to the Comeback Inn, then assume that 
that soul eater was not sent after the PCs 
and make no further checks for it. 


The Heroes' Reward 

When the PCs report to The Fetch, he 
pays them the promised rewards for 
attempting the mission and destroying 
the Well of Souls. Since the artifact has 
been causing perturbations in the space- 
time continuum for months. The Fetch 
already knows that it is destroyed by the 
fact that these effects have now ceased. 
Conversely, he also knows if the item still 
exists. 

If all NPCs who accompanied the PCs 
on any part of their journey are alive, 
then The Fetch throws in a bonus of 
2,000 gold pieces for each PC. This 
bonus reflects the fact that The Fetch's 
agents don't have to expend the time and 
effort to locate the bodies of those impor 
tant characters who have been slain and 
get them into the hands of a cleric who 
can raise them. The NPCs in the 
ROGUES, REGENTS & RASCALS 
part of this module may be killed, but, 
unless they die in such a way that they 
can't be raised by a cleric, then their 
bodies are always recovered by friendly 
agents, and they are always raised at 
some time in the future. 

Once the PCs have been rewarded for 
their services, you have two options: 

1. If you are playing this module as a 
stand-alone adventure, then Jallapierie 
and a squad of soldiers return the PCs 
through the gate to their own time. Their 
connection with Blackmoor is at an end. 

2. If you are playing this module as part 
of a continuing campaign in Blackmoor, 
then the PCs can either return to their 
own time as in option 1 or they can stay 
in Blackmoor as agents of The Fetch, in 
which capacity they are assured of facing 
innumerable future dangers on behalf of 



25 



GEOGRAPHY OF THE WEST 


The land west of Blackmoor is divided by 
geography into three basic regions, each 
of which is described below. 

The Duchy of Ten 

Just across the broad Misauga River 
from Blackmoor is the Duchy of Ten. 
When the North was first settled, Tho- 
nian rule stopped at the Misauga, and 
the left bank of the river soon became a 
haven for escaped criminals, indentured 
men, and serfs. They called themselves 
the Unwanted, and formed a loose socie 
ty of clans and freeholds that held the 
entire left bank from the Amber Channel 
to Loch Gloomen against the Empire. 
After a minor political upheaval in Tho- 
nia, the Unwanted were joined by sev 
eral families of renegade nobility. 
Eventually, these outcasts developed 
their own cultural and political system 
that was virtually indistinguishable from 
that of Thonia. Protected by the power 
ful Duchy of the Peaks, which claimed 
the land between the Misauga and the 
Superstitions, the Unwanted became a 
power in the North. 

First, though, they had to tame their 
new home. The earliest of the Unwanted 
had settled down to farm the black loam 
along the river. A second wave settled the 
sea coast. From north and east, these two 
groups gradually expanded into the inte 
rior until they occupied all of the land 
within 40 miles of the river. Then, they 
came up against two barriers that halted 
further expansion. In the south and cen 
ter, a complex of woodlands and hills 
blocked their way. In the north, they 
encountered the Barrier Swamp, a 20 to 
60-mile-wide belt of marshland teeming 
with nasty critters, who opposed the 
march of civilization with fang and claw. 

For decades, the Unwanted advanced 
no further. Blocked by the sea to the 
north, Loch Gloomen to the south, the 
Empire to the east, and the Barrier 
Swamp to the west, they settled down to 
the task of developing what they had 
already acquired. Soon, the land was 
densely settled and the Unwanted had 
several good-sized towns in operation. 
Thus, when the first renegade nobles 


arrived in Robinsport from Thonia, they 
found no place for themselves in the area 
already settled. It was they who pio 
neered the difficult western marches, 
penetrating the forbidding forest and 
hacking homes out of the hostile swamp. 

The nobles who did not go into the wil 
derness to found their own dominions 
used their wealth to become prominent 
merchants. As their influence and the 
number of their kin increased, they came 
to head powerful merchant houses that 
controlled a thriving trade. One noble 
family went even further, exploring the 
Root River system and building a new 
port at Southport on Loch Gloomen as a 
terminus of the infant trade in furs and 
hides from the Plains of Hak and the 
High Hak. Within a few years of their 
arrival, the noble families had extended 
the realm of the Unwanted until it 
stretched from the western terminus of 
the Barrier Swamp near the Thunder 
River over 200 miles south to where the 
Root River meets Loch Gloomen. The 
southern half of the realm was a mere 40 
miles wide, but, in the north, a 100-milc- 
wide band of homesteads occupied some 
of the richest farm country in the North. 
This was the legacy of the noble families. 

Two centuries after the first of the 
Unwanted crossed the Misauga, there 
were ten self-styled barons holding 
dominions or heading merchant houses 
west of the river. At that time, the 
Empire, which had recendy expanded to 
the east bank of the Misauga, made its 
first bid to end the independence of the 
Unwanted. When the Duke of the Peaks 
refused to take steps to return to Thonia 
those of its slaves and escaped criminals 
that crossed the river, the Empire gath 
ered an army and prepared to march into 
the land of the Unwanted. 

Alarmed by reports that the Thonians 
were cutting a road through the Great 
Dismal Swamp to their very doorstep, 
the Unwanted asked the Duke of the 
Peaks for help. But the duke had at last 
come to the realization that the Empire 
was in earnest, and he was madly trying 
to make peace. He had no intention of 
fighting a war on behalf of the Unwant 
ed. When the barons who dwelt west of 


the Misauga became aware of the duke's 
cowardice, they met at Robinsport to 
plan a common defense. Born to the pro 
fession of arms and raised in the ways of 
batde, they led the Unwanted to war 
against Thonia. 

It was a very short war. When the 
Thonians crossed the Misauga and 
burned the town of Hanford, the barons 
offered only token resistance before with 
drawing into Brushy Fen. Against the 
advice of Blackmoorian "colonials," the 
Thonian commander led his force of 
3,800 men into the marsh. Four miles 
inside the fen, the Thonians were 
ambushed and cut to pieces. Only 400 
men (most of them "colonials") survived 
the massacre. 

After their victory at Brushy Fen, the 
barons were heroes with great influence 
among the Unwanted. Knowing that the 
Empire would attack again and that the 
Duke of the Peaks might, at any time, try 
to assert his former claim to their land, 
the barons convinced their fellows to 
seize their fate by the throat. Six months 
after the Thonian defeat, the Unwanted 
proclaimed the Duchy of Ten. 

The new duchy was to be ruled by a 
Council of Ten, composed of the heads of 
the ten baronial families. This council 
was to consult with and be guided by the 
Estates General, a very infrequendy con 
vened assembly of delegates drawn from 
the peasantry, the trades, and the 
church. All real power was in the hands 
of the barons, who met regularly to 
choose one among their number as their 
chief executive for the next four years. 
High above the centrally located baroni 
al seat of Cleve in the Vale of Glenfinan, 
the council had built the high castle of 
Starmorgan to be the home of this execu 
tive arm; it administered the duchy from 
this location throughout its existence. 

That existence came to an end when 
the Afridhi broke through the walls of 
Port Dacoit and forced the surrender of 
the last of the Duchy's armies. In the first 
year after the Afridhi conquest, the sav 
age hillmen consolidated their rule with 
ruthlcssness and efficiency. Starmorgan 
they made the seat of their power, keep 
ing the structure of the Duchy's execu- 


26 




GEOGRAPHY OF THE WEST 


live branch, but placing it under the con 
trol of the Sisters of Fire. The rest of the 
realm, already ravaged by war, was loot 
ed by hordes of Afridhi "administrators" 
and soldiers. Those who were of no use 
to them or who might pose a threat to 
their rule were mercilessly slaughtered. 
At least 5,000 Tenians perished in what 
they called "the Terror." 

It was the Terror that broke the back of 
the Duchy. Priests, large merchants, 
noblemen-all those around whom 
Tenian opposition might rally-were 
done away with and their property con 
fiscated by the Afridhi. At its height, rot 
ting corpses dangled from gibbets at 
every crossroads. Three of the great 
baronial merchant houses (the Stuyve- 
sants of Port Dacoit, and the Peels and 
Walcherons of Robinsport) were wiped 
out to the last infant. All of the Degerns 
except for young Sir Kay were taken and 
butchered in the village square of the 
family seat at Oktagern. The former 
cadet branch of the Degern family 
(which had risen to baronial status when 
the Degems fled Thonia) suffered a simi 
lar fate at its family holding at Rusagem; 
the Afridhi executioners missed only 
Baron Hubal, himself. Four other baro 
nial families (the Gladstones of Silverbell 
and Hanford, the Rothcrmans of 
Southport, and the Campbells of Glcn- 
finan) all suffered heavily, losing at least 
half of their number and most of their 
property. Only the van Rijns of Port 
Dacoit weathered the storm intact by 
loading their wealth on two of the fami 
ly's ships and departing for Maus even as 
the Afridhi were making their final 
assault on that town. In the succeeding 
months, they were joined at Maus by a 
thousand of the Duchy's most prominent 
citizens, who had been forced by the Ter 
ror to flee for their lives. Thus, by the 
time Tbska Rusa had called a halt to the 
Terror, the head had been chopped off of 
Tenian society. 

But the end of the Terror did not mean 
the end of the killing. In the years since, 
another 6,000 Tenians have been exe 
cuted or done to death by starvation or 
maltreatment while in Afridhi hands. 
Add to their number the 8,000 battle 


deaths that the Duchy suffered in its 
seven-year war and the 9,000 plus deaths 
by natural causes during and after the 
conquest, and it is not surprising that 
natural increase has failed to keep pace 
with the death rate. In fact, when exiles, 
refugees outside the Duchy and pris 
oners working in the road gangs on the 
Plains of Hak are subtracted from the 
total Tenian population, there arc now 
but 50,000 Tenians living in an area that 
formerly sustained 75,000. Thus, war 
and conquest have cost the Duchy a third 
of its people. Their places have been tak 
en by the Afridhi. 

Most of the Afridhi retreated west 
ward after the Battle of the Neck. The 
huge caravans of women and children 
who had moved east with the Afridhi 
Army could not be supported indefi 
nitely in the war-ravaged Duchy. So 
most of the noncombatants went up into 
the hills west of the Plains of Hak and 
awaited developments. 

But there are still 20,000 Afridhi war 
riors and 8,000 civilians in the Duchy. 
They are the cutting edge of the Great 
Migration, the vanguard of an irresist- 
able movement of the Afridhi nation that 
has only temporarily been stopped. They 
are also an army of occupation that 
grinds down the surviving Tenians. Eve 
ry important location in the Duchy has 
its Afridhi garrison and its Afridhi 
administrators, who are hated with a sur 
passing passion by the Tenians. 

The Terror spawned the first rebellion 
against the Afridhi. It was crushed with 
ease, and Tenian morale was broken in 
the process. Then came the Afridhi 
defeat at the Battle of the Neck. The 
10,000 Afridhi deaths in that battle far 
exceeded total Afridhi batde deaths in 
the previous 12 years of warfare and led 
to a net drop of 5,000 in total Afridhi 
strength (to 35,000 men). When news of 
that defeat spread through the Duchy, a 
new rebellion began to take shape. 

Today, the land is in turmoil. Some 
2,000 Tenians have joined an army being 
raised in the Empty Lands by the Baron 
of Oktagern or have fled into the Empty 
Lands seeking the baron's protection. 
Another 3,000 Tenians have gathered in 


the Eaves, a dense forest west of the Bar 
rier Swamp where the surviving mem 
bers of the Rothcrman, Campbell and 
cadet Degern families have joined the 
two branches of the Gladstones-the 
White and the Red-to form the Stellar 
Council, a govemment-in-exile that is 
readying a new revolt. 

In order to cope with these threats, the 
Afridhi have built a chain of forts (Sher- 
pur, Khost, and Peiwar) along the 
Duchy's northwest frontier and have 
established another fort (Wazir) in the 
open country between the Barrens of 
Karsh and the Green River. They have 
built an extensive network of roads to 
link these forts with the interior and with 
two other new forts (Jamud andjank) on 
the Plains of Hak. Some 6,000 Afridhi 
have had to be diverted from duty along 
the Misauga to man these forts, and this 
has left the Afridhi Empire's eastern 
frontier vulnerable to increasingly heavy 
raids mounted by Blackmoor's Baroness 
of the Lakes. 

But the worst threat now faced by the 
Afridhi Empire is the terrible internal 
dislocation produced by its policies. Kill 
ing off the moneylenders and great mer 
chant families has brought foreign trade 
to a standstill. Confiscatory levels of tax 
ation have almost destroyed agricultural 
and internal commerce. The suppression 
of Tenian institutions has rent the fabric 
of society, leaving the populace too 
demoralized to cope with the economic 
disasters. Far worse, in their desire to 
quickly build a system of military roads 
to knit together their conquest, the 
Afridhi have press-ganged thousands of 
Tenians into slave gangs, which have 
been sent to distant areas to construct the 
desired arteries under the most horrific 
conditions. At any given time, these 
gangs consist of about 1,000 Tenians, of 
whom 30 to 50 die each month of starva 
tion and maltreatment. 

Ground under the Afridhi heel, fearful 
of the press gangs, despairing for their 
lives in a disintegrating society, more and 
more Tenians have fled to the wilds and 
turned to a life of banditry. The outlawed 
Tenian branch of the Thonian High 
Church has organized most of these ban- 


27 




GEOGRAPHY OF THE WEST 


dit gangs into a seditious network called 
the Brothers of the Greenwood that now 
claims at least 8,000 members inside the 
Duchy. At least 6,000 more sympathizers 
are believed to be active in supplying the 
network with supplies and information. 
Toska Rusa's spies report that the King 
dom of Blackmoor is supplying weapons 
and assistance to the Brothers, some of 
whom have been trained at Dukane, on 
the Blackmoorian side of the Misauga. 
With this assistance, the Brothers have 
become a real danger to continued 
Afridhi rule in the Duchy. 

These locations will be of interest to 
those adventuring in the Duchy: 

Hanford: The walled town of Hanford is 
located on the Misauga along the main 
overland invasion route leading into 
Blackmoor. This once-thriving town of 
1,400 people now has only 1,000 Tenian 
residents; however, its crowded streets 
teem with 1,000 Afridhi civilians and a 
garrison of 400 heavy foot, 400 light foot, 
and 200 light horse. Another 100 light 
foot guard the citadel. 

Oktagcrn: The small town of Oktagem, 
which once had a population of 900, now 
has only 500 Tenien residents. However, 
a large Afridhi encampment outside the 
town holds 800 Afridhi civilians. In addi 
tion, there are 800 light foot and 200 
light horse quartered in the town and in 
nearby cantonments. This horde of 
interlopers is needed to staff and guard 
the supply depot that the Afridhi have 
built outside the town. This depot of 24 
large warehouses is designed to supply 
the Afridhi army during campaigns in 
the Empty Lands. In recent months, the 
Afridhi have supplemented the town's 
single defensive tower with a pair of 
bramble stockades, one enclosing the 
town and warehouses and the other pro 
tecting the civilian encampment. 

Port Dacoit: Once a pirate stronghold 
and now the second port of the Duchy, 
Port Dacoit occupies a six-mile-wide 
peninsula at the mouth of the Misauga 
River. The walled town, which at one 
time had a population almost as large as 
that of nearby Robin sport, now has only 


1,500 Tenian residents. Over 300 of the 
town's residents have escaped across the 
Misauga in small boats and setded in the 
new villages of Fel and Dukane on the 
Blackmoor side of the river. 

As a result of the flight from Afridhi 
rule, the two Tenian-populated villages 
on the river's right bank have grown into 
towns of 500 residents each. In order to 
safeguard them, King Uther has dis 
patched three companies of foot (300 
men) to Fel, where they are building a 
keep. He has also sent 24 of his elite 
guardsmen to Dukane to train a militia, 
and, not incidentally, assist representa 
tives of the Thonian High Church in 
organizing groups of Brothers of the 
Greenwood to reenter the Duchy. In 
response, the Afridhi have beefed up 
their garrison in Port Dacoit to 800 
heavy foot, 400 light foot, and 200 light 
horse. Some 1,000 Afridhi civilians and 
a citadel guard of 200 light foot also occu 
py the port. 

Robinsport: This walled trading center 
at the mouth of the Firefrost Channel has 
a population of 2,000 Tcnians plus 1,000 
Afridhi civilians and an Afridhi garrison 
of 800 heavy foot, 400 light foot, and 300 
light horse. There are another 300 light 
foot in the town's citadel. Robinsport is 
the center of maritime trade between the 
Duchy and the rest of the North. Since 
the Afridhi conquest, this trade has 
dropped to a mere fraction of what it 
once was, and the port has fallen on hard 
times. The Afridhi are now becoming 
aware of the effect that their policies have 
had on the economy of the Duchy and 
are taking steps to revive their former 
commerce, but Robinsport remains 
depressed. 

Rusagern: The town of Rusagern, seat 
of the cadet branch of the Degems, has 
500 Tenian residents. In addition, it now 
provides temporary housing for a gang of 
200 impressed laborers, who are busily 
expanding the small keep. Northwest of 
the town is an encampment of over 700 
Afridhi civilians. There arc 800 Afridhi 
light foot and 200 Afridhi light horse 
quartered in Rusagern. 


Silverbcll: The walled river port of 
Silverbell is located on the Misauga 
south of Brushy Fen. Its 1,000 Tenian 
residents serve 1,200 Afridhi civilians 
and a garrison of 800 light foot and 200 
light horse. There are 100 more light foot 
inside the tower that serves as the town's 
citadel. 

Southport: Strategically located at the 
southeastern end of Loch Gloomen, 
where it is entered by the Root River, the 
walled town of Southport once claimed 
2,000 Tenian residents. Now, only 1,000 
Tcnians remain. However, there are now 
1,300 Afridhi civilians and a garrison of 
800 light foot and 200 heavy foot in the 
town. An additional 100 light foot man 
the citadel. Since the prohibition of trade 
with the Horsemen of Peshwah, 
Southport has become a mere shadow of 
its former self. Only the profitable trade 
in slaves and grazer hides keeps the econ 
omy going. 

Starmorgan: The casde of Starmorgan 
in the Vale of Glenfinan never housed 
more than a thousand government offi 
cials, servants, and soldiers when it was 
the capital of the Duchy of Ten. Now that 
it is the seat of Afridhi government in the 
Duchy, its 1,000 Tenian scribes and ser 
vants have had to make room for 2,000 
Afridhi civilians and a garrison of no less 
than 800 heavy foot, 1,600 light foot, and 
600 heavy horse. 

The Plains of Hak 

Southwest of the Duchy of Ten are the 
Plains of Hak. Formerly the home of the 
savage Horsemen of Peshwah, this roll 
ing grassy plain still provides sustenance 
to huge herds of grazers, a large and 
unusually violent herbivore valued for its 
thick hide, which is used in the manufac 
ture of armor. When the Afridhi came 
west, they drove the Peshwah before 
them, taking possession of the Plains of 
Hak, which were the traditional winter 
range of the nomadic horsemen. Today, 
the Peshwah are confined to their sum 
mer range, an upland called the High 
Hak. 


28 



GEOGRAPHY OF THE WEST 


The Peshwah have not abandoned 
hope of reclaiming the Plains of Hak, 
though. Peshwah war parties of several 
dozen warriors are always active north of 
the Root River, just as Afridhi light horse 
patrol the High Hak in strength from 
bases to its east. For 12 years, the two 
sides have fought a vicious war of hit- 
and-run attacks. 

One of the great nightmares of the 
Afridhi is that the Horsemen of Peshwah 
will reenter the Plains of Hak in force, 
driving a wedge between Afridhi forces 
in the eastern hills and those in the 
Duchy of Ten. In fact, Blackmoorian 
agents have been active in pressing this 
course on the Peshwah. For this reason, 
in the last six months, the Afridhi have 
commenced construction of a network of 
military roads and forts to secure the 
area and have transferred 2,000 troops 
from the banks of the Misauga to the 
southwestern frontier. 

These locations will be of interest to 
those who stray onto the Plains of Hak: 

Camp Mahsud: This camp is the west 
ern terminus of the new road that will 
one day connect the Duchy of Ten with 
the Afridhi Empire's western domains. 
At present, 500 impressed Tenians labor 
under the supervision and protection of 
100 Afridhi light foot and 200 Afridhi 
light horse. While part of this road gang 
continues west, a small portion will stay 
at Camp Mahsud to build a stone block 
house protecting the newly constructed 
road. 

Camp Orakzai: With the completion of 
Fort Jank, the Tenian labor detail that 
handled the construction was put to work 
on a road that would link that fort with 
Fort Jamud to the northwest. Some 300 
Tenian laborers and their escort of 100 
Afridhi light foot and 200 Afridhi light 
horse are now encamped at Camp Orak 
zai, which will be the sight of a new fort 
that will guard the road between Jank 
and Jamud. Before completing the road 
linking the two large forts, the Tenians 
will have to construct a large stone block 
house on the sight of their camp, a labor 
that has already taken weeks longer than 


planned since the stone is being brought 
almost 50 miles from the reopened quar 
ry at Gillian. 

Fort Jamud: At the northeastemmost 
tip of the Plains of Hak is Fort Jamud, a 
square, dusty compound of sod-and- 
timber huts surrounded by a deep- 
ditched timber palisade. The newly 
constructed fort is home to a force of 400 
light foot and 600 light horse. 

Fort Jank: Almost 20 miles due west of 
Southport, the Afridhi have constructed 
Fort Jank, a square timber-and-sod fort 
ditched on all sides to defeat mounted 
attackers. The new fort houses 400 heavy 
foot 400 light foot, and 200 light horse. 

Gillian: The quarry at Gillian had been 
abandoned for 30 years when the Afridhi 
decided to reopen it in order to get stone 
for their forts. There are now 200 
impressed Tenian laborers working the 
quarry under the watchful eyes of a 
guard of 100 Afridhi light infantry. 

White Horse: Once an important trad 
ing post of 300 people, White Horse now 
has only 100 Tenian residents. Since the 
Afridhi have cut off all trade with the 
Horsemen of Peshwah and have placed 
an inspector and a company of 50 cavalry 
in the town to enforce the prohibition. 
White Horse has whithered almost to the 
point of extinction. Current plans call for 
a large fort to be built on the site from 
which 400 Afridhi heavy foot and 600 
Afridhi light horse will keep watch on the 
12,000 Peshwah on the High Hak. 

The Empty Lands 

Tenians have always called the open area 
north and west of the Barrier Swamp the 
Empty Lands. Most of the land is flat or 
gently rolling, dotted here and there with 
small forests, which are now havens for 
the Brothers of the Greenwood and the 
armies of Degern and the Stellar Coun 
cil. Other than these forests, the most 
notable feature of the Empty Lands is a 
chain of volcanic hills called the Barrens 
of Karsh. Since the beginning of the new 
Tenian rebellion, the Afridhi have had to 
divert over 4,000 troops to this area in 


order to defend the Duchy. These loca 
tions will be of interest to those who enter 
the Empty Lands: 

Fort Khost: Located at the end of a new 
road from Oktagern, Fort Khost is a 
standard Afridhi timber-and-sod fort, 
ditched on all sides. Its garrison includes 
800 heavy foot, 400 light foot, and 200 
light horse. 

Fort Peiwar: Isolated far out on the 
Duchy's northwestern frontier, 35 miles 
from the nearest aid, is Fort Peiwar. 
Here 400 light foot and 400 light horse 
conduct a campaign of harassment 
against Degcm's rebel army. But Degem 
is more successful at harassing Fort 
Peiwar than its garrison is at harassing 
him. In the last five months, he has cap 
tured all but one of the fort's supply 
trains and has inflicted over 300 casual 
ties on the garrison. The Afridhi are seri 
ously considering abandoning this 
outpost. 

Fort Sherpur: This fort was originally 
built to help prevent infiltration back and 
forth between Dcgem's rebels and the 
Duchy. However, it has recently been 
mounted with eight heavy catapults that 
control access to the shipping channel 
leading into the Thunder River. This 
allows the 200 light foot, 200 engineers, 
and 200 light horse in its garrison to keep 
Blackmoorian vessels from running sup 
plies upriver to Degern, a clear danger in 
light of Blackmoor's support for other 
rebellious Tenian elements. Since all 
trade between the Duchy of the Peaks 
and its neighbors must pass through this 
channel, the presence of the heavy cata 
pults also puts pressure on Duchess 
Sonia Shalako to hew to a pro-Afridhi 
line. 

Fort Wazir: Though this fort follows the 
standard Afridhi plan, its 8-foot walls are 
built of roughly mortared stone, and it 
has eight heavy catapults in its corner 
towers. The 200 engineers, 200 light 
horse and 400 light foot, 400 heavy foot 
in its garrison guard the Duchy against 
any eastward movement of the Stellar 
Council's army. 


29 


ENCOUNTER TABLES 


THE BARRENS OF KARSH 
ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld6 and find the result below in order to determine the 
nature of any encounter that the PCs have in the Barrens of 
Karsh. 

1 Fire Giants (2): AC 4; HD 11 + 2*; hp 57 each; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 5-30; Save FI 1; ML 9; AL C; XP 1,900 
each. The fire giants wear heavy bronze chain mail. They 
are armed with giant maces and are accompanied by six hell 
hounds. 

Hellhounds (6): AC 4; HD 5; hp 20 each; MV 120' (40'); 
#AT 1 bite or 1 breath; D 1-6 or special; Save F5; ML 9; AL 
C; XP 425 each. 

2 Karsh (Lava) Lizard (1): AC 2; HD 6*; hp 48; MV 90' 
(30'); #AT 1 bite + special; D 1-8 + 1-8; Save F4; ML 12; 
AL N; XP 500. The lava lizard attacks immediately upon 
becoming aware of the PCs. 

3 Flame Salamanders (5): AC 2; HD 8*; hp 30; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT2 claws/1 bite; D 1-4/1-4/1-8; Save F8; ML 8; AL 
N; XP 1,200 each. 

4 Afridhi Cavalry Patrol (19): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); 

HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
short bow) or 

1-8 (sword); Save FI; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 

Riding Horses (20): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 240' 
(80'); #AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save Fl; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 

5 Ores (12): AC 6 (leather armor and shield); HD 1; hp 6 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or short bow) or 
1-8 (sword); Save Fl; ML 8 (6); AL C; XP 10 each. 

Ore Leader (1): AC 6 (leather armor and shield); HD 1; hp 
8; MV 120'(40'); #AT 1; D 2-9(sword); Save Fl; MLS; AL 
C; XP 10. 

This Ore hunting party tries to evade the PCs. 

6 Efreeti (1): AC 3; HD 10*; hp 80; MV 90' (30'), flying 240' 
(80'); #AT 1 fist; D 2-16; Save F15; ML 12; AL C; XP 
1,600. If the efreeti spots Kridor in the party, it immediately 
attacks him. 


THE BARRIER SWAMP ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld8 and find the result below in order to determine the 
nature of any encounter that the PCs have in the Barrier 
Swamp. 

1 Gatormen (6): AC 3; HD 7; hp 40 each; MV 120' (40'), 
swimming 180' (60'); #AT 1 bite/1 weapon; D 3-18 (bite) or 
4-11 (battle axe); Save F7; ML 10; ALC; XP 450each. The 
gatormen try to evade the PCs. If any of them succeed, then 
the PCs have an encounter with 18 gatormen (each identical 
to the first six) within 3-6 hours. The second group of gator 
men try to kill the PCs. 

2 Crocodiles (8): AC 5; HD 2; hp 10 each; MV 90' (30'), 
swimming90' (30'); #AT 1 bite; D 1-8; Save Fl; ML 7; AL 
N; XP 35 each. 

3 Large Crocodiles (2): AC 3; HD 6; hp 40 each; MV 90' 
(30'), swimming 90' (30'); #AT 1 bite, D 2-16; Save F3; ML 
7; AL N; XP 275 each. 

4 Giant Leaches (4): AC 7; HD 6; hp 40 each; MV 90' (30'); 
#AT 1 bite; D 1-6; Save F3; ML 10; AL N; XP 275 each. 

5 Giant Toads (6): AC 7; HD 2 + 2; hp 12 each; MV 90' 
(30'); #AT 1 bite; D 2-5; Save Fl; ML 6; AL N; XP 25 each. 

6 Giant Rats (10): AC 7; HD 1/2; hp 4 each; MV 120' (40'); 
#AT 1 bite; D 1-3 + disease; Save as normal man; ML 8; 
AL C; XP 12 each. All of the giant rats are diseased. 

7 Brothers of the Greenwood (8): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 
3; hp 15 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or 
short sword); Save F3; ML 8; AL L; XP 35 each. 

Leader (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 5; hp 30; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or short sword); Save F5; ML 
8; ALL; XP 175. 

8 Afridhi Foot Patrol (14): AC 6 (leather armor and shield); 
HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
short bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save Fl; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 
each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 


30 




ENCOUNTER TABLES 


THE DUCHY OF TEN ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld4 and find the result below in order to determine the 
nature of any encounter that the PCs have in parts of the 
Duchy of Ten not covered by other encounter tables. 

1 Afridhi Press Gang (19): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 2; hp 8 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); Save F2; ML 9; 
AL C; XP 20 each. 

Afridhi Press Gang leader (1): AC 5 (chain mail); HD 2; hp 
10; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1 -8 (sword); Save F2; ML 11; 
AL C; XP 20. 

Riding Horses (21): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 240' 
(80'); #AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save Fl; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 

The Afridhi try to impress the PCs and take them to Tor 
Kurram. They first loot the PCs' possessions and then put 
them in leg irons that are attached to a long chain carried by 
the extra riding horse. 

2 Afridhi Tax Gatherers (6): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 1; hp 5 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (short sword); Save Fl; 
ML 9; AL C; XP 10 each. These mounted tax gatherers are 
bound for the nearest Afridhi garrison. Their extra riding 
horse carries four large sacks, each holding 600 gold pieces. 

Riding Horses (7): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 240' (80'); 
#AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save Fl; ML 7; AL N; XP 20 
each. 

3 Afridhi Courier (1): AC 9; HD l;hp5; MV 120'(40'); #AT 
1; D 1-6 (short sword); Save Fl; ML 9; AL C; XP 10. The 
courier is carrying routine dispatches for the nearest Afridhi 
garrison. He avoids trouble. 

Riding Horse (1): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 240' (80'); 
#AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save Fl; ML 7; AL N; XP 20 
each. 

4 Afridhi Cavalry Patrol (9): AC 5 (chain mail); HD 1; hp 4 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); Save Fl; ML 
10; ALC; XP 10 each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (l): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 10; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); Save F2; 
ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 

Riding Horses (20): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 240' 
(80'); #AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save Fl; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 


THE EAVES ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld6 and find the result below in order to determine the 
nature of any encounter that the PCs have in The Eaves. 

1 Gakarak (1): AC 0; HD 16** , *;hp80; MV 180'(60'); #AT 
1 club + special; D 4-24; Save F16; ML 10; AL N; XP 
6,250. The Gakarak is called Benoit. He cares nothing for 
the war that has come to his home and wants only to be left 
alone. He knows nothing of the Stellar Council. If the PCs 
have already encountered Benoit, treat this encounter as if it 
were a 3 result. 

2 Roper (1): AC 0; HD 12'**; hp 96; MV 30' (10'); #AT I 
bite/6 tentacles; D 5-3/weakness; Save F10; ML 10; AL C; 
XP 3,875. The roper is disguised as a tree. As soon as all of 
the PCs are in range of its tentacles, it ambushes the party. 

3 Wyvems (2): AC 3; HD 7*; hp 40; MV 90' (30'). flying 240' 
(80'); #AT 1 bitc/6 sting; D 2-16/1-6 + poison; Save F4; 
ML 9; AL C; XP 850. The wyverns are extremely hungry. 
They attack the PCs on sight. 

4 Brothers of the Greenwood (6): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 
3; hp 18 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or 
short sword); Save F3; ML 8; AL L; XP 35 each. 

Leader (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 5; hp 30; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or short sword); Save F5; ML 
8; ALL; XP 175. 

The Brothers avoid the Stellar Council's forces. They don't 
know the location of the council's camp. 

5 Afridhi Foot Patrol (19): AC 6 (leather armor and shield); 
HD I; hp 6 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
short bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save Fl; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 
each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 

6 Stellar Council Foot Patrol (9): AC 6 (leather armor and 
shield); HD 1; hp 7 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 
(short bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save Fl; ML 10; AL L; XP 10 
each. 

Stellar Council Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and 
shield); HD 2; hp 14; MV 120' (40'); #AT l sword; D 1-8 
(sword); Save F2; ML 11; AL L; XP 20. 

The patrol belongs to the Stellar Council's army. It has 
orders to drive off (or, if necessary, kill) everyone it encount 
ers except for Brothers of the Greenwood and members of 
other Council patrols. 


31 




ENCOUNTER TABLES 


THE EMPTY LANDS ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld6 and find the result below in order to determine the 
nature of any encounter that the PCs have in The Empty 
Lands. 

1 Afridhi Cavalry Patrol (19): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); 
HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
short bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save FI; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 
each. 

Alridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); *AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 

Riding Horses (20): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 240' 
(80'); #AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 

2 .Afridhi Scouts (3): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 3; hp 20 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (short bow) or 1-8 (sword); 
Save F3; ML 11; AL C; XP 35 each. The scouts try to evade 
the PCs. If any of them succeed, the party encounters an 
Afridhi cavalry patrol (as per a 1 result) within 3-6 hours. 

Riding Horses (3): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each: MV 240' (80'); 
#AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 20 
each. 

3 Tenian Refugees (12): AC 9 (unarmored); HD l;hp4each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); Save as Normal 
Man; ML 6; AL N; XP 5 each. This party of six males, four 
females, and two children is trying to escape Afridhi rule 
and join the Brothers of the Greenwood. They have no food 
or valuables and are currently lost. If Gregor is with the 
PCs, he insists that they see the refugees to safety. If they 
refuse, Gregor adopts the task as his own. 

4 Griffon (1): AC 5; HD 7; hp35; MV 120'(40'), 360'(120'); 
#AT 2 claws/1 bite; D 1-4/1-4/2-16; Save F4; ML 8; AL N; 
XP 450. Once it spots the party, the Griffon trails it at a dis 
tance looking for a chance to carry off a horse. If the party 
has no horses, the griffon flies away. 

5 Lions (4): AC 6; HD 5; hp 25 each; MV 150' (50'); #AT 2 
claws/1 bite; D 2-5/2-5/1-10; Save F3; ML 9; AL N; XP 175 
each. The hungry lions immediately attack. 

6 Pit Viper (1): AC 6; HD 2*; hp 10; MV 90' (30'); #AT 1 
bite; D 1-4 + poison; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 25. The 
first PC in the party blunders onto a pit viper. 


THE GARGOYLE HILLS ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld8 and find the result below in order to determine the 

nature of any encounter that the PCs have in the Gargoyle 

Hills. 

1 Gargoyles (6): AC 5; HD 4* *; hp 20 each; MV 90' (30'), fly 
ing 150'(50'); #AT2claws/l bite/1 horn; D 1 -3/1 -3/1-6/1 -4; 
Save F8; ML 11; ALC; XP 125 each. 

2 Hill Giants (3): AC 4; HD 8; hp 56 each; MV 120' (40'); 
#AT 1 club; D 2-16; Save F8; ML 8; AL C; XP 650 each. 
The hill giants attack immediately upon becoming aware of 
the PCs. One of the hill giants totes a large sack containing 
several bloody haunches of meat that looks suspicially 
humanoid. Another carries a large sack holding 200 gold 
pieces. The sack also contains the boots, clothing, chain mail 
shirt, and jewelry of a Handmaiden of Death, one of the 
giants' recent victims. 

3 Goats (20): AC 7; HD 2; hp 10 each; MV 240' (80'); #AT 1 
butt; D 1-4; Save FI; ML 5; AL N; XP 20 each. This herd 
of wild goats tries to evade the party. 

4 Afridhi Foot Patrol (19): AC 6 (leather armor and shield); 
HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
short bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save FI; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 
each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 

5 Brothers of the Greenwood (6): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 
3; hp 18 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or 
short sword); Save F3; ML 8; AL L; XP 35 each. 

Leader (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 5; hp 30; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or short sword); Save F5; ML 
8; ALL; XP 175. 

6 Gargoyles(4): AC 5; HD 4**; hp 24 each; MV 90' (30'), fly 
ing 150'(50'); #AT2claws/l bite/1 horn; D 1-3/1 -3/1 -6/1-4; 
Save F8; ML 11; ALC; XP 125 each. 

7 Goats (12): AC 7; HD 2; hp 10 each; MV 240' (80'); #AT 1 
butt; D 1-4; Save FI; ML 5; AL N; XP 20 each. This herd 
of wild goats is spooked by the party and charges in their 
direction. 

8 Gargoyle (1): AC 5; HD 4**; hp 24; MV 90' (30'), flying 
150' (50'); #AT 2 claws/1 bite/1 horn; D 1-3/1-3/1-6/1-4; 
Save F8; ML 11; AL C; XP 125. This gargoyle tries to 
evade the PCs. If he succeeds, then the PCs encounter six 
gargoyles (per a 1 result) within 3-6 hours. These gargoyles 
immediately attack. 


32 



ENCOUNTER TABLES 


THE GLENS ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld6 and find the result below in order to determine the 
nature of any encounter that the PCs have in The Glens. 

1 Gakarak (1): AC 0; HD 16****; hp80; MV 180' (60'); #AT 
1 club + special; D 4-24; Save FI6; ML 10; AL N; XP 
6,250. The Gakarak is called Ivor. He is mildly disposed 
toward Degern (whose small army leaves the forest undis 
turbed) and will direct the PCs to Degern's camp on request. 

2 Dryad (1): AC 5; HD 2*; hp 10; MV 120' (40'); #AT Spe 
cial; D 0; Save E4; ML 6; AL N; XP 25. The dryad's name 
is Melian. If the PCs overcome her suspicion of them and 
they think to ask, she can tell them how to find Degern's 
camp. 

3 Brothers of the Greenwood (4): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 
3; hp 18 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or 
short sword); Save F3; ML 8; AL L; XP 35 each. 

Leader (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 5; hp 30; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or short sword); Save F5; ML 
8; AL L; XP 175. 

The Brothers know the location of Degcm's camp, and will 
take the PCs there if they let themselves be blindfolded. 

4 Afridhi Cavalry Patrol (19): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); 
HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
short bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save FI; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 
each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 

Riding Horses (20): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 240' 
(80'); #AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 

5 Degern Foot Patrol (9): AC 6 (leather armor and shield); 
HD 1; hp 7 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (short bow) 
or 1-8 (sword); Save FI; ML 10; AL L; XP 10 each. 

Degern Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 14; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; AL L; XP 20. 

The patrol belongs to Degern's rebel army, and will take the 
PCs to Degem's camp if they let themselves be blindfolded. 

6 Trolls (6): AC 5; HD 6 + 3*; hp 33; MV 120' (40'); #AT 2 
claws/1 bite; D 1-6/1-6/1-10; Save F6; ML 10 (8); AL C; 
XP 650. Drawn into the Glens from the Superstition Moun 
tains by the prospect of feasting on the refugees streaming 
out of the Duchy, this troll hunting pack attacks the PCs on 
sight. 


THE GREAT DISMAL SWAMP/BRUSHY FEN 
ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld6 and find the result below in order to determine the 
nature of any encounter that the PCs have in the Great Dismal 
Swamp or in Brushy Fen. 

1 Lizardmen (8): AC 5; HD 2 + 1; hp 17 each; MV 60'(20'), 
swimming 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear); Save F2; ML 
12; AL N; XP 25 each. The lizardmen try to evade the PCs. 
If any of them succeed, then the PCs encounter 24 lizard- 
men (each identical to the first eight) within 3-6 hours. The 
second group of lizardmen try to kill the PCs. 

2 Crocodiles (7): AC 3; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 90' (30'), 
swimming90' (30'); #AT 1 bite; D 1-8; Save FI; ML 7; AL 
N; XP 35 each. 

3 Giant Leaches (4): AC 7; HD 6; hp 30 each; MV 90' (30'); 
#AT 1 bite; D 1-6; Save F3; ML 10; AL N; XP 275 each 

4 Rock Python (1): AC 6; HD 5*; hp 40; MV 90' (30'); #AT 1 
bite/1 squeeze; D 1-4/2-8; Save F3; ML 8; AL N; XP 300. 

5 Blackmoorian Foot Patrol (10): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 
2; hp 10 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or 
short sword); Save F2; ML 9; AL L; XP 20 each. 

Blackmoorian Patrol Leader (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 
4; hp 20; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (short sword); Save 
F4; ML 10; AL L; XP 75. 

If satisfied that the PCs are Blackmoorian agents, the patrol 
aids them in any way it can that doesn't require it to stray 
more than 36 miles from the location in which it is encoun 
tered. The leader can provide the PCs with information on 
what they are likely to encounter within 36 miles in any 
direction. 

6 Afridhi Fool Patrol (16): AC 6 (leather armor and shield); 
HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (short bow) 
or 1-8 (sword); Save FI; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 

Because they are in hostile territory, the Afridhi don't try to 
take the PCs captive as they would on the west side of the 
Misauga. Instead, they try to evade the PCs. Failing this, 
they try to kill them. 


33 


ENCOUNTER TABLES 


THE HILLS OF TEN ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld8 and find the result below in order to determine the 
nature of any encounter that the PCs have in the Hills of Ten. 

1 Hill Giants (2): AC 4; HD 8; hp 64 each; MV 120' (40'); 
#AT 1 club; D 2-16; Save F8; ML 8; AL C; XP 650 each. 
The hill giants attack immediately upon becoming aware of 
the PCs. 

2 Wolves (10): AC 7; HD 2 + 2; hp 10; MV 180' (60'); #AT 1 
bite; D 1-6; Save FI; ML 8; AL N; XP 25. This hunting 
pack trails the PCs just beyond bow shot. If a character 
becomes separated from the main party, they attack him. 

3 Goats (15): AC 7; HD 2; hp 10 each; MV 240' (80'); #AT 1 
butt; D 1-4; Save FI; ML 5; AL N; XP 20 each. This herd 
of wild goats tries to evade the party. 

4 Gorgons (2): AC 2; HD 8*; hp 64 each; MV 120'(40'); #AT 
1 horn or 1 breath; D 2-12 or petrifaction; Save F8; ML 8; 
AL C; XP 1,200 each. The gorgons attack immediately 
upon becoming aware of the PCs. 

5 Brothers of the Greenwood (6): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 
3; hp 18 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or 
short sword); Save F3; ML 8; AL L; XP 35 each. 

Leader (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 5; hp 30; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or short sword); Save F5; ML 
8; AL L; XP 175. 

6 Afridhi Foot Patrol (19): AC 6 (leather armor and shield); 
HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
short bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save FI; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 
each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 

7 Afridhi Cavalry Patrol (19): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); 
HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
short bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save FI; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 
each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 

Riding Horses (20): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 240' 
(80'); #AT 2 hooves; D 1 -4/1 -4; Save FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 

8 Wyvem (1): AC 3; HD 7'; hp 40; MV 90' (30'), flying 240' 
(80'); #AT 1 bite/6 sting; D 2-16/1-6 + poison; Save F4; 
ML 9; AL C; XP 850. The wyvem is ill and weak. It tries to 
evade the PCs, lighting only if attacked. 


THE OCEAN ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld6 and find the result below in order to determine the 
nature of any encounter that the PCs have at sea. 

1 Dragon Turtle (1): AC -2; HD 30*; hp 240; MV 30' (10'), 
swimming 90' (30'); #AT 2 daws/1 bite; D 1-8/1-8/10-60; 
Save F15; ML 10; AL C; XP 9,000. 

2 Mermen (40): AC 6; HD 1; hp 8 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 
1; D 1-6 (trident); Save FI; ML 8; AL N; XP 10 each. 

Merman Leaders (4): AC 6; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (trident); Save F2; ML 8; AL N; XP 20 
each. 

Dolphins (22): AC 5; HD 3*; hp 15 each; MV 180' (60'); 
#AT 1 head butt; D 2-8; Save D6; ML 10; AL L; XP 50 
each. 

Incensed by the recent murder of some of their kin by Skan- 
daharian Raiders, these mermen have formed a war party 
for purposes of taking revenge. Since they don't know who 
did the killing, they are bent on destroying any vessel they 
encounter. In league with the mermen is a school of dol 
phins, whose kin have also suffered at the hands of the Skan- 
daharians. Each dolphin carries two mermen on its back. 

3 Pteranodons (4): AC 6; HD 5; hp 25 each; MV 240' (120'); 
#AT 1 beak; D 1-12; Save F3; ML 8; AL N; XP 175 each. 
These giant pterodactyls are bred as pets by the Egg of Coot 
(see DAI). Having wandered from the Realm of the Egg in 
search of tasty prey, they attack the PCs as soon as they sight 
them. 

4 Sea Hydra (1): AC 5; HD 12; hp 96; MV 120'(40'); #AT 12 
heads; D 1-10; Save Fl2; ML 11; AL N; XP 1,100. 

5 Harpies (8): AC 7; HD 3*; hp 15 each; MV 60' (20'), flying 
150' (50'); #AT 2 claws/special; D 1-4/1-4; Save F6; ML 7; 
ALC; XP 50 each. The harpies try to carry off any one char 
acter for dining purposes. If foiled in this endeavor, any who 
survive the melee trail the PCs at a distance, hurling curses 
at them. 

6 Water Termites (7): AC 5; HD 4; hp 20; MV 180' (60'); #AT 
Special; D 1-6; Save F3; ML 11; AL N; XP 75. If the PCs 
are on a ship, the termites affix themselves to its hull and 
begin to destroy it. If the PCs are in ajolly boat or are swim 
ming in the ocean, the termites attack them direedy. 


34 



ENCOUNTER TABLES 


THE PLAINS OF HAK ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld6 and find ihe result below in order to determine the 
nature of any encounter that the PCs have on the Plains of 
Hak. 

1 Horsemen ofPeshwah(lO): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 1; hp 
7 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (short bow or short 
sword); Save Fl; ML 8; AL C; XP 10 each. 

Riding Horses (10): AC 7; HD 2; hp 10 each; MV 240' 
(80'); #AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save Fl; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 

2 Afridhi Cavalry Patrol (19): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); 
HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
short bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save Fl; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 
each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; AL C; XP 20. 

Riding Horses (20): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 240' 
(80'); #AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save Fl; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 

3 Hide Hunters (8): AC 6 (leather armor and shield); HD 4; 
hp 16 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (short bow) or 1-8 
(short sword) or lance (1-10); Save F4; ML 9; AL N; XP 35 
each. The hunters don't have their wagons with them. 

War Horses (8): AC 7; HD 3; hp 18 each; MV 120' (40'); 
#AT 2 hooves; D 1-6/1-6; Save F2; ML 9; AL N; XP 35 
each. 

4 Grazers (16): AC 5; HD 8; hp 32 each; MV 120'(40'); #AT 
1 bite or trample; D 2-12/3-18; Save F4; ML 9; AL N; XP 
650 each. The grazers attack immediately. 

5 Horses (30): AC 7; HD 2; hp 10 each; MV 240' (80'); #AT 2 
hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save Fl; ML 7; AL N; XP 20each. This 
herd of wild horses tries to evade the PCs. 

6 Afridhi Scouts (2): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 3; hp 20 each; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (short bow) or 1-8 (sword); 
Save F3; ML 11, ALC; XP 35 each. The scouts try to evade 
the PCs. If cither succeeds, the party encounters an Afridhi 
cavalry patrol (as per a 2 result) within 3-6 hours. 

Riding Horses (2): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 240' (80'); 
#AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save Fl; ML 7; AL N; XP 20 
each. 


THE WILDS OF TEN ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Roll ld6 and find the result below in order to determine the 
nature of any encounter that the PCs have in the Wilds of Ten. 

1 Roper (1): AC 0; HD 12***; hp 96; MV 30' (10'); #AT 1 
bite/6 tentacles; D 5-3/weakness; Save F10; ML 10; AL C; 
XP 3,875. The roper is disguised as a tree. As soon as all of 
the PCs are in range of its tentacles, it ambushes the party. 

2 Brigands (15): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 1; hp8; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save Fl; ML 
8; ALC; XP 10. 

Brigand Leader (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 2; hp 16; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow) or 1-8 (sword); 
Save F2; ML 8; AL C; XP 20. 

These brigands are dressed and armed like Brothers of the 
Greenwood. If the PCs make the mistake of assuming that 
they are Brothers, the brigand leader plays along until he 
has them at his mercy and then signals his men to attack. 

3 Brothers of the Greenwood (8): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 
3; hp 18 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (long bow or 
short sword); Save F3; ML 8; AL L; XP 35 each. 

Leader (1): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 5; hp 30; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1; D 1 -6 (long bow or short sword); Save F5; ML 
8; AL L; XP 175. 

4 Afridhi Foot Patrol (19): AC 7 (leather armor); HD 1; hp 6 
each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (short bow) or 1-8 
(sword); Save Fl; ML 10; AL C; XP 10 each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 6 (leather armor and shield); 
HD 2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); 
Save F2; ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 

5 Wolves (12): AC 7; HD 2 + 2; hp 10; MV 180' (60'); #AT 1 
bite; D 1-6; Save Fl; ML 8; AL N; XP 25. The PCs are 
attacked by this hunting pack of wolves. 

6 Afridhi Cavalry Patrol (19): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); 
HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
short bow) or 1-8 (sword); Save FT, ML 10; AL C; XP 10 
each. 

Afridhi Patrol Leader (1): AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; D 1-8 (sword); Save 
F2; ML 11; ALC; XP 20. 

Riding Horses (20): AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 240' 
(80'); #AT 2 hooves; D 1-4/1-4; Save Fl; ML 7; AL N; XP 
20 each. 


35 



MONSTERS & FOES 


This section describes all of the the new 
monsters encountered in this module. 


Brother of the Greenwood 
(Human) 


Armor Class: 
Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
Save As: 
Morale: 
Treasure Type: 
Alignment: 

XP Value: 


7 

3 

120' (40') 

1 weapon 
By weapon 
1-8 (6-24) 
Fighter 3 
8 ( 10 ) 

Nil 

Lawful 

35 


The Brothers of the Greenwood are men 
who have been driven from their homes 
by the excesses of Afridhi rule in the 
Duchy of Ten and who have chosen to 
live as bandits in the forests and swamps. 
Though they live by theft, such men are 
not common brigands. Their small 
bands are led and advised by priests of 
the Thonian High Church, and they pro 
vide information to the rebel army in 
The Glens. In addition, the Brothers 
avoid preying on their fellow Tenians, 
preferring instead to steal from their 
Afridhi overlords. Often the proceeds of 
their operations are distributed among 
poor Tenians who groan under the 
weight of Afridhi taxes. 

Each Brother is armed with a short 
sword and a bow. Since the Brothers are 
recruited from the ranks of hunters and 
poachers with long experience stalking 
game in the forests and swamps, when in 
these environments, they have the same 
abilities to Find and Remove Traps, Move 
Silently, Hide In Shadows, and Hear Noise as 
a thief of the same level as their own. In 
addition, the Bothers are absolutely 
deadly with their longbows ( + 4 to all To 
Hit die rolls and +1 to all damage die 
rolls when using a bow). Each Brother 
wears leather armor under rugged forest- 
green or butternut-brown peasant garb. 

Each band of Brothers of the Green 
wood lairs in a hidden camp containing 
6-24 Brothers and 4-24 noncombatant 
refugees (women, children, and aged 


dependents). Each band is led by a 5th 
level fighter who is advised by a 4th level 
cleric. In addition, there is a 20% chance 
that the band contains a 3d level magic 
user. 

Brothers of the Greenwood prefer to 
attack from ambush. Normally, they 
have a morale of 8 and escape by melting 
into the surrounding forest if a battle 
goes against them. However, if they are 
defending their camp, their morale 
increases to 10. The Brothers are kind to 
travelers, unless they arc associated with 
the Afridhi, in which case, they kill them 
out of hand. 

Dolphin 

Armor Class: 

Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 

Save As: 

Morale: 

Treasure Type: 

Alignment: 

XP Value: 


5 

3* 

180' (60') 

1 head butt 
2-8 

0 ( 1 - 20 ) 
Dwarf 6 
10 
Nil 

Lawful 

50 


Dolphins arc a species of aquatic mam 
mal related to whales-but much 
smaller. They are 20-feet-long and have 
a smooth hide. Dolphins can't breathe 
water and must come to the surface once 
every 15 minutes for air. They are intelli 
gent and have their own language. Dol 
phins can use telepathy with other 
dolphins within a 50-mile range, and 
they can detect magic underwater at a 
range of 360 feet. They hate sharks and 
occasionally attack them. Dolphins are 
the friends of most sailors and have been 
known to help people in trouble. 


Dragon Turtle 

Armor Class: 
Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Swimming: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
Save As: 


-2 

30* 

30' (10') 

90' (30') 

2 claws/1 bite 
1-8/10-60 
0 ( 1 ) 

Fighter 15 


Morale: 10 

Treasure Type: H 

Alignment: Chaotic 

XP Value: 9,000 


Dragon turtles are a magic crossbreed of 
a dragon and a giant turtle. They have 
the head, limbs, and tail of a great 
dragon and the hard shell of a turtle. 
These beasts live in the depths of great 
oceans and seas, seldom surfacing or 
approaching land. Dragon turtles are so 
large that sailors have mistakenly landed 
on ones floating on the surface, thinking 
the hard shell to be a small island. 

The dragon turtle can use a breath 
weapon in the same manner as a dragon. 
It can breathe a cloud of steam 50 feet 
long and 40 feet wide. This breath weap 
on does damage equal to the current hit 
points of the dragon turtle. It can breathe 
up to three times each day. 


Gakarak 

Armor Class: 
Hit Dice: 
Move: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
Save As: 
Morale: 
Treasure Type: 
Alignment: 

XP Value: 


0 

16**** 

180' (60') 

1 club + special 

4-24 

0(1-3) 

Fighter 16 
10 

L, N + O 

Neutral 

6250 


A gakarak is a large, 18-foot-tall bipedal 
entity that is often mistaken for a treant, 
although it is much darker in color and is 
usually shrouded in ancient, blackening 
mosses and lichens. 

Gakaraks are some of the oldest living 
creatures on the Prime Plane. They 
dwell deep in the heart of ancient forests, 
where they brood on their eons-old 
hatred of humans and demi-humans, all 
of whom they consider to be hateful 
treeslayers. They resent incursions into 
their forests and will do their utmost to 
deter anyone from entering. Those fool 
ish enough to penetrate deep into a 
gakarak's forest rarely return. 

The long-nurtured anger of a gakarak 
will pervade the entire forest with an 


36 





MONSTERS & FOES 


atmosphere of impending doom. Any 
one except a druid who enters a 
gakarak's forest will feel uncomfortable, 
as though an unseen, hostile intelligence 
is watching. Gakaraks can speak to and 
exercise limited control over plant life 
within a 360-yard radius circle, causing 
it to grow rapidly and even move. They 
use this ability to cause animal trails to 
become overgrown and tangled, making 
progress difficult for any intruders. 

Over smaller areas (90-foot radius) a 
gakarak can animate trees and bushes 
and direct them to attack intruders in the 
same manner as a treant (see page 56 of 
the Expert Set Rules). Each gakarak can 
animate six trees or bushes at once. Ani 
mated trees are: AC 2; HD 5-12; MV 
60' (20'); #AT 2 branches; D 2-24/2-24; 
Save F3-F6; ML 12; XP by Hit Dice. 
Animated bushes are: AC 5; HD 2-8; 
MV 60' (20'); #AT 1 branch; D 1-8; Save 
F2-F3; ML 12; XP by Hit Dice. 

Within its own forest, a gakarak can 
teleport (no error) through vegetation at 
will and is unaffected by attacks by plants 
or animals. A gakarak can't be harmed 
by wooden weapons and is immune to 
electrical attacks; blunt weapons used 
against a gakarak do only 1 point of dam 
age plus any magical or strength 
bonuses. A gakarak can regenerate 3 
points per round while he remains in 
contact with plant life. During each 
round, a gakarak can fire four darts from 
his hands (range 50/100/150); each dart 
does 1 -8 points of damage. 


Gator Man 

Armor Class: 
Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Swimming: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
Save As: 
Morale: 
Treasure Type: 
Alignment: 

XP Value: 


3 

7 

120' (40') 

180' (60') 

1 bite/1 weapon 
3-18/by weapon + 3 
1 - 6 ( 10 - 200 ) 

Fighter 7 
10 
M 

Chaotic 

450 


Gator men stand 7-8 feet tall and have 
alligator heads atop their scaly human 
bodies. Originally the result of an evil 
wizard's experiments, the gator men 
escaped their creator and fled into the 
swamps. During the following centuries 
their numbers grew dramatically, and 
their primitive villages can now be found 
throughout the Barrier Swamp. They 
have failed to spread to Loch Gloomen 
and the Great Dismal Swamp only 
because of the opposition of their mortal 
enemies, the lizard men (whom they 
attack on sight). 

To supplement their diet of swamp 
grasses, tubers, lizards, and fish, gator 
men often leave their watery homes to 
prowl the nearby countryside in search of 
meat. Their hunting parties frequently 
prey on isolated homesteads, and the 
fringes of the Barrier Swamp are lighdy 
populated as a result of their depreda 
tions. 

Gator men arc extremely muscular 
(18 Strength), and they often carry large, 
crude swords, which they wield with a 
+ 3 bonus on Hit and Damage Rolls. 
Their strong jaws and rows of serrated 
teeth do 3-18 points of damage. 

The gator men of the Barrier Swamp 
dwell in tribal communities of 10-200 
individuals. Each tribe is led by a huge 
chief (9 HD), whose bite does 4-24 points 
of damage and who wields a weapon with 
+ 4 to Hit and Damage Rolls. Each tribe 
of 40 or more individuals also has a sha 
man. In addition to their normal gator 
man attributes, shamans have the same 
abilities as 7th level clerics. Those few 
brave souls who have ventured into gator 
man territory and lived to tell about it 
speak of horrific rites conducted by the 
shamans in secluded groves deep in the 
Barrier Swamp. 

Grazer 

Armor Class: 

Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 

Save As: 


5 

8 

120' (40') 

1 bite or trample 
2-12/3-18 
0 (2-24) 

Fighter 7 


Morale: 9 

Treasure Type: Nil 

Alignment: Neutral 

XP Value: 650 


The grazer is a large herbivore that looks 
like very much like a bison except that it 
has a single, central horn and a broad, 
flat tail. Grazers are 15 feet long and 
stand eight feet tall. They differ from 
most herbivores in that they tend to 
attack when they are surprised or when 
they think that they are being threat 
ened. Their terrible temper is legendary, 
and they are considered among the most 
dangerous big game found on the open 
steppe. However, such is the value of 
their tough hides that they have been 
hunted almost to extinction in some parts 
of the world. A prime grazer hide fetches 
300 + gold pieces from Thonian hide 
buyers. The horsemen of Peshwah main 
tain herds of more or less domesticated 
grazers, and the beast plays a significant 
role in the Peshwah economy and reli 
gious Ufe. 


Handmaiden of Death (Human) 



Armor Class: 
Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
Save As: 
Morale: 
Treasure Type: 


4 

9 

90' (30') 

1 weapon 
By weapon 
1-4 (2-12) 
Fighter 9 
12 

Special 


37 



MONSTERS & FOES 


Alignment: Chaotic 

XP Value: 900 

The Handmaidens of Death are elite sol 
diers of the Afridhi Empire who have 
been sworn to the personal service of 
Zugzul and his high priestess. The 
Handmaidens provide bodyguards for 
the top leaders of the Afridhi and for key 
religious installations. 

All 200 Handmaidens of Death are 
men. Their oath forbids them to grow 
hair on their faces or to cut the hair on 
their heads. Consequently, unlike the 
other Afridhi (who are universally beard 
ed), all Handmaidens are clean-shaven 
and wear their hair plated in a single long 
braid, which they normally keep coiled 
inside a headcloth. 

When relaxing among themselves, the 
Handmaidens wear long brighdy col 
ored silk kaftans and soft slippers of the 
type favored by Afridhi females. When 
on duty, they wear chain mail and heavy 
boots over this female clothing. All carry 
a sword and a small target-type shield. 
Members of this elite company always 
wear a great deal of jewelry, tending to 
prefer heavy drop earrings and thick 
gold necklaces. On average, each Hand 
maiden wears jewelry worth 3-6,000 
gold pieces. 

The Handmaidens of Death arc 
extremely ferocious and virtually incor- 
ruptable warriors-religious fanatics 
devoted to Zugzul and his chosen high 
priestess. None will betray either the god 
or those who speak for him, and each 
believes that if he dies while in the service 
of Zugzul, he will be transported to a 
celestial pleasure hall reserved for mem 
bers of his brotherhood. In order to free 
their minds from worldly concerns, 
members of this order are forbidden to 
marry or have children until released by 
the Mistress of God from their oaths, 
which usually happens after 20 years of 
service. In order to symbolize their devo 
tion, on high holidays, they comb and oil 
their hair, paint themselves as bawds, 
and perform the "dance of death," a 
combination sword dance and ritual 
combat in which each dancer allows him 
self to be wounded at least once. 


Though few in number, the Hand 
maidens are the soul of the Afridhi 
Army-the model to which others 
aspire. They often lead particularly diffi 
cult or desperate missions or command 
special detachments. Though they are 
sworn to die joyously for Zugzul and are 
noted for incredible bravery, the Hand 
maidens are also cunning soliders, who 
do not give their lives to no purpose. 


Hide Hunter (Human) 


Armor Class: 
Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
Save As: 
Morale: 
Treasure Type: 
Alignment: 

XP Value: 


6 

4 

120' (40') 

1 weapon 
By weapon 
1-12(2-24) 
Fighter 4 
9 

A + 2 hides 

Neutral 

75 


Hide hunters are humans who specialize 
in hunting the dwindling grazer herds. 
There are only a handful of hide hunters 
left, but those who remain are an espe 
cially tough breed. The demands of their 
profession ensure they they arc always 
well-mounted on warhorses. Hide 
hunters invariably wear gaudily painted 
leather armor and carry shields, swords, 
and the special short bows built by the 
Peshwah for use on horseback. Each 
group of four hide hunters has one wag 
on containing supplies, the hides of their 
kill (they leave the meat), and the special 
lances used to bring down grazers. These 
lances differ from normal lances in that 
they have a crossbar two feet from the 
point to keep an impaled grazer from 
driving the lance through itself in order 
to get at its attacker. They also have 
pointed butts for resting on the ground. 
Hide hunters only carry grazer lances 
when actually in the act of hunting a 
herd. 

Lava Lizard 

Armor Class: 3 (2) 

Hit Dice: 4' (6*) 

Move: 90' (30') 


Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
Save As: 
Morale: 
Treasure Type: 
Alignment: 

XP Value: 


1 bite + special 
1-6 + 1 - 6 / 

(1-8 + 1-8) 

1 ( 1 ) 

Fighter 4 
12 
Nil 

Neutral 
125 (500) 


The lava lizard is a bizarre reptile that 
dwells in subterranean caverns among 
pools of bubbling lava. The beast has a 
rock-hard outer shell that helps to main 
tain the high body temperature that it 
needs to survive. It feeds on molten lava. 

In melee, the lava lizard tries to bite 
with fast, but relatively weak, jaws. A vic 
tim bitten by a lava lizard takes 1-6 points 
of damage from the bite and must make a 
Saving Throw vs. Dragon Breath. Vic 
tims who fail their saving throw sustain an 
additional 1-6 points of damage from 
heat. Victims having magical fire resist 
ance from rings and spells treat the heat 
damage as red dragon breath for purposes 
of saving throws and damage reduction. 

The lava lizard also has a special 
defense. Whenever the lizard is struck by 
a non-magical metal weapon (such as a 
sword or dagger), the attacker must make 
a Saving Throw vs. Wands. If he fails the 
saving throw, the weapon melts due to the 
lizard's immense internal heat. The melt 
ed weapon docs damage on the round in 
which it melts, but is unusable thereafter. 

Although they dwell in scorching hot 
subterranean caverns, lava lizards have 
been known to travel many miles from the 
lava they need to survive. Generally, as 
they feel their body temperature drop, the 
lizards return to their nourishing fires. 
However, there have been instances of liz 
ards pursuing foes so far from the lava 
pools that they were unable to return 
before they cooled into a statue-like 
immobility and died. 

The Barrens of Karsh are home to a 
particularly large and ferocious strain of 
lava lizard. Specimens of this breed 
(called Karsh Lizards) have an AC of 2 
(instead of 3), have 6 hit dice (instead of 
4), do 1-8 damage (instead of 1-6), and 
have an XP value of 500 (instead of 125). 


38 



MONSTERS & FOES 


Roper 

Armor Class: 0 

Hit Dice: 12* mm 

Move: 30'(10') 

Attacks: 1 bite/ 

6 tentacles 

Damage: 5-30/weakness 

No. Appearing: 1-3 (2-5) 

Save As: Fighter 10 

Morale: 10 

Treasure Type: L (x5) 

Alignment: Chaotic 

XP Value: 3875 

A roper is a long (or tall), blob-like entity 
that has one eye centered over a mouth 
full ofsharp teeth. It also has six long ten 
tacles paired on either side of its torso, 
like arms. Ropers usually live in rocky 
caverns where they can hide themselves 
by imitating the shape of tall rocks or 
stalagmites. In rare instances, they may 
also be found in dense woods, where they 
adopt the shape of trees for camouflage. 
Ropers eat anything that moves, but pre 
fer humans and humanoids. 

A roper has six long tentacles, each of 
which can shoot out 60 feet to grab prey. 
The touch of a roper's tentacle causes 
weakness, reducing the victim's Strength 
by half for three turns (no saving throw). 
Once in contact with a victim, the tenta 
cle wraps itself tighdy around him and 
pulls him toward the roper's mouth. A 
tentacle is cut only if a single blow from 
an edged magical weapon inflicts 5 or 
more points of damage. Such a blow 
makes that tentacle useless, but the dam 
age doesn't count against the monster's 
hit points. Damaged tentacles regenerate 
within 24 hours. 

Ropers are immune to all first, second 
and third level spells. They take no dam 
age from cold or lightning and are unaf 
fected by normal or silver weapons. 
Treasure may occasionally be found in 
the stomachs of defeated ropers. 


Sister of Fire (Human) 

Armor Class: 9 

Hit Dice: 3-10 

Move: 120' (40') 

Attacks: 1 weapon 

or spell 

Damage: By weapon or 

spell 

No. Appearing: 0(1-12) 

Save As: Cleric 3-10 

Morale: 11 

Treasure Type: None 

Alignment: Chaotic 

XP Value: 35,75,175,275, 

450, 650, 900 

All postpubescent Afridhi women 
receive clerical training. They are the 
special servants of Zugzul in his Zul (fire) 
aspect and arc the guardians of the fami 
ly hearth. Most are content to remain 1st 
or 2d level clerics. Those who want to 
advance further are examined by the 
Mistress of God (high priestess) to deter 
mine their suitability. If the Mistress of 
God deems them acceptable, they 
become Sisters of Fire, priestesses of 
Zugzul who rule the Afridhi. 

The Sisters of Fire order the business 
of the nation. They impose taxes based 
on the ability to pay. They setde all dis 
putes between Afridhi. When crimes are 
committed, they exact penalties. In all 
matters except war, their word is final- 
and, even in the matter of war, they can 
exercise a veto if they think that some 
activity will cause casualties beyond their 
ability to tend. 

Those who become Sisters of Fire don 
a flame-red hooded robe of office, which 
identifies them to other Afridhi so that 
they will be honored and their words 
heeded. To mark themselves as persons 
above mortal concerns, they must take 
vows of piety, poverty, and chastity. 
Always, they must live apart, among 
their own kind (other Sisters of Fire) or 
in solitary quarters where they won't be 
tempted to desert their calling and suc 
cumb to the joys of home and family. 

Those who find this regimen too oner 
ous can resign their office by simply 
removing their robes and announcing 


their intention to quit. Such women are 
greatly sought after as wives. However, 
few Sisters of Fire resign since this irre 
versible choice cuts them off forever from 
the power and excitement that comes 
with ruiership. Besides, most of the Sis 
ters are truly devoted to Zugzul and the 
Afridhi nation. 

Sisters of Fire can be of any level of 
experience between 3 and 10. Only the 
Mistress of God can rise above the 10th 
level of experience (and only with the 
help of Zugzul). As a special gift from 
Zugzul, all Sisters of Fire have a natural 
resistance to fire (per die cleric spell resist 
fire , but of continuous duration). 

Skandaharian Raider (Human) 

Armor Class: 4 

Hit Dice: 4 

Move: 90' (30') 

Attacks: 1 weapon 

Damage: By weapon 

No. Appearing: 0 (10-80) 

Save As: Fighter 4 

Morale: 9 

Treasure Type: A 

Alignment: Chaotic 

XP Value: 75 

The Skandaharians are a race of tall, pale- 
skinned, blue-eyed, blond-haired sea 
rovers. From their secret lairs in the frozen 
north, the)' regularly sail in longships to 
reave the coasts of the Thonian Empire. In 
recent years, they have concentrated on 
Blackmoor, which they unsuccessfully 
invaded during the Great Rebellion. 
Many a Skandaharian warrior died in that 
fiasco, and the barbarian raiders hate 
Blackmoor with a special vengeance 
because of their humiliating defeat. For 
this reason, they have, in recent years, 
made common cause with the Afridhi and 
Thonian Empires. This has not prevented 
them from raiding either empire, but has 
made them discreet. 

Skandaharians seldom venture far 
from their ships, though small parties 
may be encountered ashore and far from 
the sea, since they often sail their vessels 
up rivers in order to find good pickings. 


39 


MONSTERS & FOES 


Generally, the Skandaharians organize 
themselves by clans, and each clan has 
one or more longships. Each longship is 
crewed by 50-75 raiders. Most will be 
clansmen, though up to 10% will often 
be clanless men working for a percentage 
of the profit from the voyage. In many 
cases, the clanless men arc also being 
tested to determine their suitability for 
adoption into the clan at some future 
date. 

Since they live for war and fighting, 
most Skandaharians (75% of any crew) 
are 4th level fighters. Another 10% are 
3d level fighters, and 15% are 5th level 
fighters. Each longship is captained by 
the clan chief, one of his sons, or one of 
his chief henchmen. The captain is usu 
ally a 7th level fighter. It is not uncom 
mon, however, for clans to send out 
vessels with crews carefully picked from 
the entire clan. In such cases, up to half 
of the crewmen will have 1-2 additional 
experience levels, and the captain will be 
a 10th level fighter. 

Skandaharians are noted for their 
greed, destructiveness, and cruelty. In 
this regard, they are often compared 
unfavorably with ores. 


presence of their mortal enemies, the 
efreet, whom they have long tried to 
drive from the Prime Plane. Those sollux 
who successfully defeat an efreeti become 
Sun Brothers. 

Sun Brothers are members of the 
Brotherhood of the Sun, the supreme 
order of sollux warriors. Members are 
distinguished by their red-gold armor 
and blazing sun shields (treat as light 
spell). They are considered the cream of 
their warrior species, and they devote 
themselves to solitary travels in search of 
efreet to defeat and drive away. In times 
of great need, the Sun Brothers have 
been known to band together to fight 
chaos, especially where the efreet have 
been involved in the struggle. 

Sun Brothers have between 10 and 14 
hit dice. The leader of the Brotherhood 
has 16 hit dice and an armor class of -3; 
he wields a sword of efreeti slaying. Sun 
Brothers normally have a morale of 9, 
but this increases to 12 when they are 
fighting efreet. 

All sollux are immune to illusion and 
arc able to detect invisibility at will. 
They aren't affected by normal fire, and 
magical attacks against them suffer -1 
to their hit and damage die rolls. 


Sollux (Sun Brother) 


Armor Class: 


Soul Eater 


0 


Hit Dice: 

10*-14" 

Armor Class: 

0 

Move: 

120' (40') 

Hit Dice: 

I0" 

Attacks: 

1 weapon 

Move: 

180' (60') 

Damage: 

1-8 

Attacks: 

2 claws 

No. Appearing: 

'(0 

Damage: 

1-10 each + 

Save As: 

Fighter 10-14 


special 

Morale: 

9(12) 

No. Appearing: 

1(1) 

Treasure Type: 

Nil 

Save As: 

Cleric 10 

Alignment: 

Lawful 

Morale: 

12 

XP Value: 

1750-2500 

Treasure Type: 

NU 

Sollux arc a race of 7-foot-tall humanoids 
with crimson skin and bright yellow hair. 

Alignment: 

XP Value: 

Chaotic 

1750 

They are solitary beings who prefer to 

A soul eater is a 

being from another 

make dieir homes in areas of great heat 

dimension summoned by (or granted by 

(near volcanoes or 

in deserts, for exam- 

an Immortal to) a 

high level cleric. It is 

pie). Although they are denizens of the 

used to slay beings 

as ordered by the cler- 

Prime Plane, sollux are related to both 

ic who summoned 

or received it. A soul 

helions and efreet. 

. Unlike efreet, they 

eater appears as a cloud of glowing dark- 


are lawful in nature. ness and can assume any shape desired. 

Sollux warriors are always alert for the Once assigned a victim, it will not stop 


until either it or its victim is defeated. A 
soul eater is intelligent and will accom 
plish its mission by any means it can. 

In combat the monster attacks with 
two ghostly claws each round. In addi 
tion, each time it hits, it drains one point 
of wisdom unless the victim makes a suc 
cessful Saving Throw vs. Death Ray. 
This saving throw must be made each 
time die character is hit. A soul eater earn 
only be struck by magical weapons; sil 
ver and normal weapons have no effect 
on it. If a soul eater slays its victim or 
reduces his wisdom to 0, the victim dies 
and the soul eater returns to its own 
dimension. Characters slain by a soul 
eater can't be raised from the dead or 
reincarnated. If a victim survives, he 
regains wisdom at die rate of 1 point per 
day. If the soul eater's hit points arc 
reduced to 0, it dissolves into a formless 
cloud and drifts away; it doesn't return. 

If the soul eater's victim is slain by 
another, or if the soul eater is defeated, it 
returns to the cleric who summoned it 
and attacks him in a blind fury. Due to its 
rage, it has 20 hit dice and does 3-18 
points of damage during this attack. If 
defeated in its attack on the cleric, it dis 
appears forever. The soul cater attacks 
the cleric who gave it its mission only if 
the cleric summoned it; not if the soul 
eater was given to the cleric by an 
Immortal (as in the case of the soul eaters 
housed in the Well of Souls). 



40 



ROGUES, REGENTS & RASCALS 


Unless otherwise noted, assume that 
any of these NPGs who accompany the 
PC party on an adventure or who are 
encountered in a wilderness setting carry 
a backpack loaded with certain standard 
equipment. Items carried in the pack 
include a lantern, a flask of oil, 15 iron 
rations, a 50' length of rope, a tinder 
box, two water skins, a steel mirror, and 
a holy symbol. If the NPC is a thief, the 
pack also contains thieves' tools. 

Unless otherwise noted, assume that 
each NPC owns a riding horse, saddle, 
bridle, and saddle bags and that each 
magic user owns a mule on which to car 
ry his spell book. 

The attributes of the NPCs listed in 
this section reflect all modifications for 
the type of armor usually worn and for 
any weapon, shield, or magical item 
indicated as being usually carried. 
Armor class has also been modified to 
reflect Dexterity bonuses. 



Captain Hieronymus Castegere 


Neutral 10th level fighter; Str 13; Int 14; 
Wis 13; Con 15; Dex 12; Cha 12; AC 7; 
hp 42. 

The master of the coaster Blossom is a 
devious rogue who has made an 
immense fortune from playing all sides 
against each other. At the start of the 
Afridhi invasion of the Duchy of Ten, 
Castegere shrewdly liquidated his hold 
ings in his home port of Robinsport and 


put his money to work with the money 
lenders of Maus. He now has 9,000 gold 
pieces on deposit in Maus, sufficient 
treasure to retire comfortably if he so 
chose. But, driven by greed, Castegere 
continues to risk his life in order to accu 
mulate even more. Currently, he is tak 
ing both Afridhi and Thonian gold to spy 
on Blackmoor and Blackmoorian gold to 
spy on the Afridhi-and he is negotiating 
with the Skandaharians to provide them 
with information on both Blackmoorian 
and Tenian ship movements. 

But Castegere is not entirely driven by 
greed. He is never so comfortable as 
when he is in danger at sea, and much of 
his clandestine activity is merely an 
excuse to go looking for trouble. He also 
has a passionate love for his ship, which 
is named for his long-dead wife, and for 
his daughter, who so closely resembles 
her mother. 

Castegere wears a rough sun-bleached 
seaman's jersey and tar-stained trews 
under lightweight leather armor. His feet 
are shod in oiled felt boots. A single gold 
stud decorates his right ear. Otherwise, 
he wears no visible adornment; however, 
hidden under his jersey is a silver amulet 
vs. crystal balls & ESP. Castegere keeps a 
pair of daggers in his broad leather belt 
and carries an additional dagger in each 
boot. If danger threatens, he adds a sword 
+ 1, charm person. His worn belt pouch 
holds 20 gold pieces and a set of keys to 
his sea chest and desk and to the various 
doors on his ship. 

Castegere speaks fluent Dwarf. 

Dost Suwat 

Chaotic 7th level fighter; Str 14; Int 12; 
Wis 15; Con 12; Dex 12; Cha 11; AC 5; 
hp 35. 

The Afridhi warrior Dost Suwat belongs 
to a secret society of Afridhi males called 
the Children of Zug. According to their 
beliefs, the current worship of Zugzul in 
his Zul aspect ignores the dual nature of 
the god as both Zug (ice) and Zul (fire). 
Further, the Children of Zug believe that 
the present Afridhi theology' is at least 
partly the result of a conspiracy of the 


Sisters of Fire to keep male Afridhi sub 
servient and to hide their god's Zug 
aspect. 

Since coming down from their chilly, 
isolated mountains, Afridhi males have 
seen several societies where females are 
subservient or, at best, equal. Many of 
them now believe that it is time for equal 
ity within their own tribe, and the most 
radical proponants of this belief are the 
Children of Zug. Since they cannot hope 
to have their heresy accepted by the 
Afridhi matriarchy, they seek to discredit 
the Sisters of Fire by wrecking their 
efforts to prosecute the war. As a faithful 
Child of Zug, Dost Suwat seeks to fur 
ther this aim by doing what he can to sab 
otage the completion of the Well of Souls. 

Dost wears chain mail armor over his 
traditional Afridhi hillman dress and car 
ries a dagger and a sword. His small belt 
pouch holds 20 gold pieces and a potion of 
human control. 

Fletcher William-the Fetch 

Lawful 14th level fighter; Str 15; Int 12; 
Wis 15; Con 12; Dex 9; Cha 9; AC 2; hp 
56. 

Fletcher William is Keeper of the Peace 
at the University of Blackmoor. In addi 
tion, Fletcher (who is known to students 
as The Fetch, due to his investigatory abil 
ities) also serves clandestinely as the 
kingdom's leading counterspy and as a 
recruiter for King Uther's intelligence 
service. His recruits invariably end up 
on the payroll of the Keeper of the Peace, 
which serves as a cover for the transfer of 
funds to the council's spies. 

The Fetch is a thin, graying, thor 
oughly unprepossessing old gentleman 
who does all that he can to encourage the 
view that he is a harmless campus rec 
luse, content to live a sober bachelor 
existence as a toiler in the fields of aca 
deme. In fact, though, he is an intelli 
gent, sophisticated, and highly 
dangerous man. 

In order to keep his body hardened for 
his secret state duties, Fletcher William 
always wears a full suit of chain mail + 2 
under his academic robes. When danger 


41 





ROGUES, REGENTS & RASCALS 


is imminent, he adds a helm and a small 
shield. He always carries a dagger and a 
sword + 2 and adds a short bow with a 
quiver of 20 arrows when traveling. 
Around his neck, The Fetch wears a rare 
amulet that protects him (and those in his 
presence) from being spied upon by any 
one using a crystal ball or mental abilities 
(such as ESP). The amulet also alerts 
The Fetch when anyone is attempting to 
spy on him and from what direction the 
action originated. 

Gerry Castegere 

Neutral 7th level thief; Str9; Int 16; Wis 
10; Con 12; Dex 13; Cha 14; AC 7; hp 
18; OL 45%; FT 40%; RT 38%; PP 
50%; MS 48%; CW 93%; HS 35%; 
HN 1-4. 

The 19-year-old daughter of Hierony 
mus Castegere was orphaned at the age 
of three, when her mother died during a 
plague while her father was at sea. The 
elder Castegere never forgave himself for 
not being present when his beloved wife 
died, and he vowed that he and his 
daughter would never be parted. Taking 
his life savings and the proceeds of a 
ruinously costly loan from a Robinsport 
usurer, Castegere bought a used coaster, 
renamed it for his dead wife, and made it 
a home for himself and his infant daugh 
ter. Thus, from her earliest years, Gerry 
has roamed the sea with her father, learn 
ing the ways of wind and water and how 
to handle a sailing ship. 

In order to protect his daughter from 
the amorous advances of the crew and 
cater to the superstitions of ignorant sea 
men who believed that a women on 
board a ship was bad luck, Castegere dis 
guised Gerry as a boy from the first day 
she was onboard. 

Growing up at sea among rough sail 
ors or in wildly debauched ports among 
even more nefarious influences, Gerry 
learned the skills of fighter and thief 
along with those of sailor. The eccentric 
nature of her upbringing and the often 
hard code of her profession have made 
Gerry tough, but not brutal. 

The diminutive thief wears the same 


seaman's garb as her father, but eschews 
armor. Instead, she relies on Dexterity 
and a ring oj protection + 1, 5' radius for 
protection. She carries a dagger in one 
boot. If a melee seems imminent, she 
also carries a short sword +1 and cross 
bow. Beneath her jersey, Gerry wears a 
silver amulet us. crystal balls & ESP that is a 
match for the one worn by Hieronymus. 

Gerry speaks both Elf and Dwarf. 

Gregor Mendicamp 

Lawful 12th level cleric; Str 12; Int 15; 
Wis 17; Con 13; Dex 12; Cha 9; AC 9; 
hp 45. 

Once a simple parish priest, this slight, 
balding, meek-mannered, 38-year-old 
cleric has, for the last four years, been a 
fugitive from the justice of the Sisters of 
Fire and a secret agent for the Thonian 
High Church. Acting on behalf of the 
Bishop of Blackmoor, he has founded 
dozens of bands of Brothers of the Green 
wood and organized an effective intelli 
gence service in most of the towns in the 
Duchy of Ten. 

Gregor is at root a simple man who 
wants only to serve his people and to bet 
ter their lives. But his heart aches for 
their suffering, and he knows that their 
travail will not end until the Afridhi are 
brought low. 

Since the Thonian High Church has 
been suppressed by the Afridhi, Gregor 
dares not wear his priestly robes. 
Instead, he disguises himself as a travel 
ing scribe, complete with a special read 
ing lens, which he wears on a chain 
around his neck, and a thumb carefully 
stained with ink to resemble that of one 
who daily works with leaky quills. 

But there is more to this scribe than 
meets the eye. Beneath his threadbare 
green woolen scribe's robe, Gregor 
wears a girdle of giant strength. The rags 
bound around his lower legs and feet 
conceal boots oj traveling and leaping. And 
what appears to be a simple walking staff 
is actually a stajf of power with 24 charges. 

Gregor speaks fluent Afridhi. He 
knows the following spells: 

1st Level: cure light wounds, detect evil, pro 


tection from evil, purify food and water. 

2d Level: find traps, hold person, resist fire, 
speak with animal. 

3d Level: continual light, cure blindness, cure 
disease, remove curse. 

4th Level: cure serious wounds, dispel magic, 
neutralize poison. 

5 th Level: create food, raise dead. 

6th Level: find the path. 

Gul Hadda-the Mad Fakir 

Chaotic 14th level magic user; Str 7; Int 
18; Wis 16; Con 9; Dex 12; Cha 6; AC 6; 
hp 24. 

Trained since his earliest years as a magi 
cian, at the age of 72, Gul Hadda is the 
most powerful Afridhi wizard. This dis 
tinction would gain him a respect almost 
equal to that shown the Sisters of Fire 
were it not for the fact that Gul Hadda is 
utterly mad. Fortunately, the Afridhi 
have too few magicians to dispense with 
the services of anyone with his power. 

Among the wizard's many transgres 
sions of Afridhi law and propriety are 
crimes that would cost anyone else his 
life. Public drunkenness and dancing 
outside of religious services are just two 
of his less severe capital offenses. Most of 
his really important crimes don't bear 
repeating in Afridhi polite society. 

Gul is a stooped, emaciated, virtually 
hairless old man who refuses to wear any 
clothing except a filthy wool loin cloth 
wrapped around his withered hips. He 
claims that wearing more clothing than 
that interferes with his ability to control 
magical energies. But Gul is not insensitive 
to the embarrassment that his state of 
undress causes many of his body-conscious 
kinfolk. Therefore, he has "compromised" 
with their mores by having his body tat 
tooed from neck to toe with designs closely 
resembling Afridhi dress-pants, short, 
fur-lined jacket, gauntlets, and call-length 
boots. Lost amid this artistic display is a 
ring of protection + 3 (which works like a ring 
of protection +7, but with a benefit of 3 
instead of 1) worn on his right hand. Gul 
carries a small dagger hidden in a fold of 
his loin cloth and carries a staff of wizardry 
with 18 charges. 


42 



ROGUES, REGENTS & RASCALS 



The wizard speaks Dragon, Dwarf 
and Elf. He knows the following spells: 


1st Level: charm person, detect magic, read 
languages, read magic. 

2d Level: detect evil, detect invisible, knock, 
wizard lock. 

3d Level: dispel magic, haste, protection from 
evil 10' radius, protection from normal mis 
siles. 

4th Level: confusion, polymorph others, poly 
morph self, wall of fire. 

5th Level: animate dead, cloudkill, teleport. 
6th Level: disintegrate, stone to flesh. 

Jallapierie 

Lawful 17th level magic user; Str 12; Lnt 
17; Wis 15; Con 13; Dex 12; Cha9; AC 
4; hp 44. 

The wizard Jallapierie (or Jal, as he is 
known to the common folk) is a tall, thin, 
rumpled-looking man with short, 
cropped brown hair and a pale, lumpy 
cleanly-shaven face. His appearance 
alone would make him stand out among 
the run of northern wizards, who tend to 
be a hirsute lot. But Jal's surpassing skill 
is what really sets him apart. Without 
question, Jallapierie is the strongest wiz 
ard in service to Blackmoor. 

When encountered in the Comeback 
Inn, he carries a dagger + 2 and a staff of 
wizardry with 19 charges. On the middle 
finger of his right hand is set a ring of pro 
tection + 5, 5' radius (which works just like 
a ring of protection + 1, 5' radius, but with a 


benefit of 5 instead of 1). 

Jal speaks Elf and Dwarf. He knows 
the following spells: 

1st Level: charm person, detect magic, magic 
missile, read languages, read magic, sleep. 
2d Level: detect evil, detect invisible, invisi 
bility, knock, wizard lock. 

3d Level: dispel magic, haste, protection from 
evil 10' radius, lightning bolt (x2). 

4th Level: dimension door, polymorph self, 
remove curse, wall of fire. 

5th Level: conjure elemental, hold monster, 
teleport. 

6th Level: disintegrate, geas, stone to flesh. 
7th Level: mass invisibility, summon object. 

The two 7 th level spells arc detailed in 
the D&D(r) Companion rules. They are 
described below: 

Mass Invisibility* 

Range: 240' 

Duration: Permanent until broken. 
Effect: Many creatures or objects. 

This bestows invisibility (as the 2d level 
spell) on several creatures. All the recipi 
ents must be within an area 60' square 
within 240' of the magic-user. The spell 
will affect up to six dragon-sized crea 
tures, or up to 300 man-sized creatures 
(treating one horse as two men). After 
the spell is cast, each creature becomes 
invisible, along with all equipment car 
ried (as explained in the Basic Set Players 
Guide, page 41). 

The reverse of this spell (appear) 
causes all invisible creatures and objects 
in a 20' x 20' x 20' volume to become 
visible. Creatures on Astral and Ethereal 
Planes arc not within the area of effect; 
the spell cannot reach across planar 
boundaries. All other forms of invisibili 
ty are affected, both magical and natu 
ral, and all victims of this spell cannot 
become invisible again for 1 turn. 

Summon Object 

Range: Infinite 
Duration: Instantaneous. 

Effect: Retrieves 1 object from caster's 
home 

By means of this spell, the magic user can 


cause one nonliving object to leave his or 
her home and appear in hand. The 
object must weigh no more than 500 cn, 
and can be no bigger than a staff or small 
chest. The caster must be very familiar 
with the item and its exact location, or 
the spell will not work. Each item must 
be prepared beforehand by sprinkling it 
with a special powder that costs 1,000 gp 
per item prepared; the powder becomes 
invisible and docs not interfere with the 
item in any way. Unprepared items can 
not be summoned by this spell. 

If another being possesses the item 
summoned, the item will not appear, but 
the caster will know approximately who 
and where the possessor is. 

The magic user may use this spell from 
any location, even if the item summoned 
is on another Plane of Existence. 

Sher Yakub 

Chaotic 12th level fighter; Str 15; lnt 12; 
Wis 16; Con 16; Dex 14; Cha 14; AC 4; 
hp 80. 

The senior military commander at Tor 
Kurram is Sher Yakub. A veteran officer 
often commended for his ruthlessness, 
Sher Yakub takes his orders from Umra 
Dir. Together, they control all aspects of 
the Tor Kurram excavation. 

Like most Afridhi, Sher is a short, 
square-bodied man with curly black hair 
and a long beard. He wears chain mail 
over a white woolen tunic and trews and 
a red woolen cloak over the chain mail. 
Soft red felt riding boots encase his feet. 
A sheath thrust into one boot holds a dag 
ger + 7. Suspended from his belt is a sil 
ver neutral sword + / named Snow on the 
Mountain. This weapon has an intelli 
gence of 8 and an ego of 5 and has the 
powers see invisible, flying, and healing. 

Sir Kay Degern- 

Baron of Oktagern 

Lawful 13th level fighter; Sir 12; lnt 16; 
Wis 15; Con 13; Dex 14; Cha 16; AC 1; 
hp 70. 

Sir Kay Degern is the youngest son of 


43 



ROGUES, REGENTS & RASCALS 


one of the 10 baronial families that ruled 
the Duchy before the conquest. His two 
older brothers died in the war against the 
Afridhi. His father was executed by 
Toska Rusa during the consolidation of 
power that followed the conquest. That 
leaves him as heir to the family title and 
lands. Since the Afridhi have abolished 
his title and claimed his lands, he now 
lives as an oudaw and rebel. 

On the northwestern frontier of the 
Duchy, in the empty lands that separate 
it from the Duchy of the Peaks, Degern is 
raising an army to attack the Afridhi and 
retake the Duchy. At this time, he has 
about 1,500 men pledged to him, but 
they are scattered in small enclaves in 
The Trackers, The Wilds of Nin, and 
The Glens. They won't be concentrated 
all in one place until Dcgcm is ready to 
strike. In addition, Degem is also closely 
allied with the Brothers of the Green- 
woon, and there are about 800 members 
or wards of that group hidden in the 
northwestern forests. The baron's own 
hidden camp in The Glens accommo 
dates just 80 soldiers and 20 civilians. 

At 28, Kay Degem is a tall, somewhat 
gangling young, man with a plain, open 
face that immediately inspires trust. He 
wears plain, serviceable blued plate mail 
and carries a shield bearing his family 
escutcheon (three boar heads on a yellow 
field). When fully accoutred, he bears a 
dagger, mace, battle axe, sword, and 
lance. However, he normally carries only 
a dagger and his sword + 2, charm person, 
which he calls Nepanth. 

Degern speaks Elf and Afridhi. He is 
always accompanied by his chaplain, his 
physician, and a 12-man household 
guard. 

Chaplain Josef Angmar (1): AC 9; C5; 
hp 18; #AT 1; D 2-12 (staff); MV 
120'(40'); Save C5; ML 8; AL L; XP 
175. Angmar knows the cleric spells 
cure light wounds, protection from evil, 
bless, and speak with animal. He carries 
a staff of striking with 15 charges. 

Physician Paulie Kel (1); AC 9; M6; hp 
15; #AT 1; D 6-36 (wand) or by spell; 
MV 120'(40'); Save M6; ML 10; AL 


L; XT Value 275. Kel knows the mag 
ic user spells read languages, read magic, 
continual light, knock, fireball, and protec 
tion from evil 10' radius. He carries a 
wand of lightning bolts with 12 charges. 

Guardsmen (12): AC5 (chain mail); F4; 
hp 20 each; #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); 
MV 90'(30'); Save F4; ML 10; AL L; 
XP Value 75 each. 

Stout Robin Goodfellow 

Neutral 14th level thief; Str 19; Int 19; 
Wis 14; Con 12; Dex 14; Cha 17; AC 6; 
hp 26; OL 72%; FT 70%; RT64%; PP 
85%; MS 68%; CW 100%; HS 56%; 
HN 1-5. 

The Guild Master of the Thieves' Guild 
of Robinsport is more of a patriot than is 
common among those of his ilk. Under 
his direction, the Thieves' Guild has 
become the center of sedition in the town 
of Robinsport. As a result, it has become 
a respected institution, working closely 
with agents of the Thonian High 
Church, the Brothers of the Greenwood, 
and Degem's rebel army against the 
oppressive Afridhi Empire. 

Stout Robin is a jolly litde man with a 
bushy, honey-colored beard framing a 
broad smiling face from out of which 
peer a pair of shrewd sea-green eyes. 
Those who don't know who he is tend to 
dismiss the thief as just a harmless eccen 
tric, especially since he tends to talk soft 
ly to himself and make small beeping and 
buzzing sounds when concentrating on a 
problem. His eccentric, often clownish 
manner and stoutish figure conceal a 
cunning schemer and master thief who is 
adept at manipulating misfortune to his 
advantage. His one fault is his almost 
legendary impatience, which has led him 
into a number of unpleasant situations. 
Yet, when his life depends upon it, he can 
be as stubbornly patient as a cat sitting 
by a mousehole. Robin wears leather 
armor beneath a dark woolen cloak. He 
carries a pair of small, custom-made 
throwing daggers tucked into special 
leather bracers hidden under the sleeves 
of his wool tunic. There is a 10% chance 
that these daggers will be overlooked by 


anyone searching him for weapons. Rob 
in also carries a small hand ax in a sheath 
strapped to one scuffed boot. Like his 
bracers, his boots are specially made to 
look worn-out and not worth stealing. 
They are actually boots of levitation, a most 
useful item in Robin's trade. 



Toska Rusa-Mistress of God 


Chaotic 18th level cleric; Str 9; Int 17; 
Wis 15; Con 10; Dex 16; Cha 18; AC 4; 
hp 50. 

Though no longer young, Toska Rusa 
retains the bloom of youthful beauty that 
caused her to be selected by her tribe to 
be die high priestess and consort of their 
god, Zugzul the One. The so-called Mis 
tress of God is thought by the Afridhi to 
share an intimate personal relationship 
with their patron deity. When the lady 
speaks in her official capacity as high 
priestess, it is believed that she utters the 
thoughts and commands of her deity. 
Thus, when Toska Rusa ordered the 
Afridhi to leave their rugged mountain 
home and march across the "empty 
land" to the "country of black loam," it 
was as if Zugzul himself had given the 
orders. As one, an entire nation of 
170,000 Afridhi men, women, and chil 
dren packed their meager possessions 
and prepared to fight their way across the 
Plains of Hak toward Blackmoor and the 
Thonian Empire. 

The priestess is guarded at all times by 
12 bodyguards drawn from her company 
of 200 elite Handmaidens of Death. 


44 




ROGUES, REGENTS, & RASCALS 


For example, with this spell, a 15th level 
caster could summon 30 giant bats, rats or 
kobolds; or 15 goblins, ores or hobgoblins; or 
seven rock baboons, gnolls or lizard men; or 
five boars, draco lizards, or bugbears; or 
three black bears, panthers, or giant weasels; 
and so forth. 

Lore 

Range: 0 (magic user only) 

Duration: Permanent 

Effect: Reveals details of 1 item, place or per 
son. By means of this spell, the magic user 
may gain knowledge of one item, place, or 
person. If an item is held by the caster, the 
spell takes 1-4 turns to complete, and the 
magic user learns the item's name, method of 
operation and command words (if any), and 
approximate number of charges (if any, 
within five of the correct number). If the item 
has more than one mode of operation, or 
more than one command word, only one 
function will be revealed, for each lore spell 
used, without a clue to others. 

If a place or person is being investigated or 
if the item is not held, the spell may take 
1-100 days to complete, depending on the 
number of details already known. (The DM 
may reveal only general details if the place is 
large, or if the person is of great power.) A 
purely legendary topic should require large 
amounts of time, and the information gained 
may be in the form of a riddle or poem. 

Mass Charm 

Range: 120' 

Duration: Special (as charm person spell) 
Effect: 30 levels of creatures 

This spell creates the same effect as a 
charm person or charm monster spell, except 
that 30 levels (or Hit Dice) of victims can be 
affected at once. Each victim may make a 
Saving Throw vs. Spells to avoid the charm, 
but with a -2 penalty to the roll. The spell will 
not affect a creature of 31 or more levels or 
Hit Dice. 

The duration of each charm is determined 
by the victim's intelligence (see the Basic Set 
DM Guide, page 14.) If the magic user at 
tacks one of the charmed victims, only that 
creature's charm is automatically broken. 
Any other charmed creatures that see the at 
tack may make another saving throw, but 
other creatures' charms are not affected. 

The reverse of this spell, remove charm, 
will unfailingly remove all charm effects 
within a 20' * 20' x 20' area. It also pre 
vents any object in that area from creating 
charm effects for one turn. 


Power Word Blind 

Range: 120' 

Duration: 1-4 days or 2-8 hours (see below) 
Effect: Blinds 1 creature with 80 hit points or 
less. With this spell, a caster can blind one 
victim within 120' (no saving throw). A vic 
tim with 1-40 hit points is blinded for 1-4 
days; one with 41-80 hit points is blinded for 
2-8 hours. Any creature with 81 or more hit 
points cannot be affected. A blinded victim 
suffers penalties of -4 on all saving throws 
and +4 on Armor Class. A cleric's cure 
blindness or cureall spell will not remove this 
blindness unless the cleric is of a level equal to 
or higher than the caster of the power word 
blind. 

Scotty Debelfry 

Neutral 16th level thief; Str20; Int 19; Wis 8; 
Con 7; Dex 14; Cha 12; AC 4; hp 24; OL 
78%; FT 76%; RT 70%; PP 95%; MS 
72%; CW 102%; HS 60%; HN 1-5 

Though he is currently Guild Master of the 
Thieves' Guild of Maus and is rumored to be 
the head of the united Thieves' Guilds of The 
North, Scotty Debelfry has agreed to join the 
expedition to the City of the Gods, if needed. 
The Fetch hopes to avoid using the thief for 
security reasons, but Scotty would be an un 
deniable asset to the party. 

For one thing, the man's cunning is almost 
legendary, though this may not always be to 
the good. When he can't find other outlets for 
his scheming, Debelfry tends to turn to prac 
tical jokes. For many years now, he has dis 
comfited Brother Richard by playing such 
jokes on him whenever their paths have 
crossed, and Richard and his brother are also 
on tap for the expedition. 

Scotty is also noted for his courage and 
fighting abilities. In fact, the eyepatch that he 
wears over his useless right eye is souvenir of 
a desperate fight in which the slight, blond, 
boyish-looking thief single-handedly killed 
three attackers during a street brawl. 

While his judgment and physical courage 
are beyond reproach, it is said of Scotty that 
he exhibits all of the ethical sense and per 
sonal loyalty of a two-copper lawyer at the 
scene of an accident. Indeed, his purpose in 
placing his services at The Fetch's disposal is 
not to serve the crown, but to obtain a share 
of any devices that may be "liberated" from 
the City of the Gods. This, The Fetch has 
promised him in exchange for his services. 

Scotty wears leather armor beneath a 
heavy cloak. Like many of his kind, he totes a 
pair of matched throwing daggers, which he 


supplements with a small hand ax. He sel 
dom draws any of these weapons though, 
since the "Great Golden Mace of The 
North" is never far from his grasp. This mace 
+ 2 increases the bearer's strength and intelli 
gence by 6 and 7, respectively. It also has the 
ability to detect magic, detect gems, see invis 
ible, find secret doors, and find traps in the 
same manner as a magic sword. Since it is as 
well known in the North as its reputed twin, 
"the Great Holy Mace Icon," its reputation 
also tends to benefit the bearer, causing all 
enemies within 50' to check morale. Though 
it hardly looks it, the garishly bejeweled mace 
is worth 5,600 gold pieces. 

Stephen Rocklin-Saint Stephen 

Neutral 10th level fighter; Str 14; Int 16; Wis 
8; Con 15; Dex 12; Cha 18; AC 0; hp 50 

Formerly chief of security aboard the FSS 
Beagle, Stephen Rocklin led an unsuccessful 
mutiny that resulted in his being forced to flee 
the ship. After a daring escape, he was taken 
in by an obscure religious group called the 
Order of the Frog. Using his alien technology 
to overawe the locals, Rocklin, as Saint 
Stephen, rose to become high priest of the or 
der, which he built into a rich and powerful 
secret society with agents hidden throughout 
Blackmoor. 

When Stephen's policies led to agents of 
Blackmoor destroying his headquarters in 
Frog Swamp, the alien freebooter escaped the 
chaos. But he found his power substantially 
diminished, especially since much of the alien 
technology with which he had equipped his 
base was wrecked along with the temple 
structure. 

In recent months, Stephen has recruited 
new henchmen and rebuilt his organization, 
using technology stolen in a raid on the 
grounded hulk of the Beagle to arm and equip 
an assault force for a full-scale attack on the 
vessel. With the Beagle in his hands, Stephen 
will be less vulnerable to the type of incident 
that destroyed his base in Frog Swamp and 
will be in a position to extend his power over 
the whole planet-starting with the petty 
kingdom of Blackmoor that ruined his last 
scheme and wrecked his home! While he fin 
ishes training his force, Rocklin wants no un 
due interest in the City of the Gods, and he 
has ordered his agents in Blackmoor to ob 
struct in any way they can any efforts to lo 
cate the city. 

Rocklin is a tall, broad-shouldered man 
with a square, manly jaw and scads of curly 
brown hair framing cool gray eyes. He wears 


45 




ROGUES, REGENTS, & RASCALS 


battle armor under his crimson-bordered 
gold high priest's robes and carries a hand 
blaster with 24 charges and a fully charged 
light saber hidden in the robes' folds. He also 
wears an Order of the Frog temple ring, a 
ring of spell turning, and a helm of teleporta 
tion. 

If you have not played DA2 (TEMPLE OF 
THE FROG), the ring ofspell tuminghas 10 
uses remaining. If you have played that mod 
ule, the number of uses remaining equals 12 
minus the number of times Stephen used the 
ring in that adventure. 

Stephen is accompanied at all times by a 
team of fanatically devoted bodyguards cho 
sen from among his Soldiers of the Frog. 


Bodyguards (6): AC 0 (battle armor); HD 6; 
hp 30 each; H AT 1; D 4-48 (heavy blaster) 
or 1-8 (sword); MV 120' (40'); Save F6; 
ML 12; ALC; XP 275 

Like other alien officers, Rocklin has un 
dergone batde conditioning that makes him 
immune to the effects of charm person, sleep, 
ESP, hold person, and confusion spells. 

His experience as a security officer also gives 
Rocklin a detailed knowledge of Beagle's secu 
rity systems and crew that make him especially 
dangerous. He knows a number of secret batde 
language commands that he can use to override 
the computer, allowing him to automatically 
open locks other than those leading to high se 
curity areas even when the computer tries to 


seal them. He also has a 20% chance of confus 
ing the ship's computer (and causing it to lose 
track of he and his companions) by using the in 
tercom system to feed it special commands. 
Some of these commands will also shut down 
robots that haven't been programmed to ignore 
them. Rocklin has a 25% chance of shutting 
down any given sbot or dbot by this means. 

Due to the disaffection of much of Beagle's 
crew, including even some crew members 
who have undergone the early stages of their 
mind-conditioning to make them loyal, there 
is a 5% chance that Rocklin can influence 
"loyal" crew members to join him and an 
95 % chance that he can so influence escaping 
crew members and crew members in the brig. 



46 


PREROLLED CHARACTERS 


These prerolled characters have been 
created especially for use in this module. 
Use them instead of your regular charac 
ters, or flesh out the PC party by includ 
ing one or more of them as NPCs. 

Each character starts the adventure 
with a filled waterskin and a backpack 
containing 15 iron rations, a 50' rope, 1 
large sack, 1 small sack, a tinder box, a 
lantern, a flask of oil, a mirror, a holy 
symbol, and up to 80 cn of other equip 
ment selected from the Normal Equip 
ment list found on page 19 of the D&D(r) 
Expert Rules Booklet. In addition, 
thieves start with a set of thieves' tools, 
and magic users have spell books. 

Prerolled fighters have a warhorse; 
other prerolled characters have a riding 
horse. All mounts have saddles, bridles, 
and saddle bags. Each saddle bag con 
tains 500 gold pieces. Magic users have a 
mule for their spellbooks. 

Alphidia Alkot 

Lawful 11th Level magic user: Str 7; Int 
16; Wis 13; Con 14; Dex 12; Cha 9; AC 
8; hp 32. 

Alphida Alkot is a slight, frail, elderly 
woman whose mass of brown curly hair 
has long since been silvered with the 
passing of years. No longer as strong or 
fast as she once was, Alphidia knows that 
her days of wild adventure arc passing 
fast. But the lady is a fighter who has 
never demanded more of the world than 
a foe worth meeting and a treasure worth 
taking. The rest, as she has always said, 
is up to her. 

Alphidia favors clothes of silk and sat 
in in shades of gray and black. Her gar 
ments are always severely tailored and 
practical. She wears a silver ring ofprotec 
tion + 1 and carries a silver dagger, a 
wand of illusion with 10 charges, a potion of 
giant strength, and a displacer cloak. She 
knows the spells detect magic, magic missile, 
read magic, sleep, continual light, knock, wiz 
ard lock, dispel magic, invisibility 10' radius, 
protection from evil Iff radius, confusion, 
remove curse, wizard eye, hold monster, tele 
port, and death spell. 


Axel Kars 

Neutral 11th Level fighter: Str 15; Int 9; 
Wis 6; Con 17; Dex 13; Cha 11; AC 5; 
hp 64. 

Axel Kars is a sandy-haired, fair 
skinned, blue-eyed barbarian from some 
far land that no one ever heard of and 
that Axel would prefer to forget. Axel is 
known to be a good man in a fight, but he 
is also reputed to be somewhat unrelia 
ble, having in times past supposedly 
wandered off on extraneous side adven 
tures when he was badly needed by his 
comrades. Axel denies this allegation. 

The big barbarian wears rugged, 
severely tailored clothing in excessively 
bright colors over bronzed chain mail 
armor. Yellow and orange are his favorite 
shades, though he has been known to add 
a touch of purple for accent. Axel's most 
valued possession is his ring of fire resist 
ance. He also carries a two-handed 
sword, a dagger, and a potion of invulnera 
bility. 

Gillatn Khandum 

Neutral 11th Level dwarf: Str 16; Int 7; 
Wis 10; Con 16; Dex 10; Cha 9; AC 5; 
hp 63. 

Born in a small and unremarkable delv 
ing in the mountains of northern Glan- 
tri, Gillam Khandum has risen far above 
his obscure roots since fleeing his home 
land many years ago in order to escape 
prosecution. Others have attained more 
wealth, but Gillam's fame is second to 
none. 

Though he does not scorn wealth, Gil 
lam seems to lack the obsession with gold 
and gems that lurks in the hearts of so 
many of his fellow dwarves. Instead, he 
loves the open road, the wind on his 
cheek, and good companions at his side. 
He also has an almost elvish love of 
music, and can oft be heard softly sing 
ing to himself snatches of some half- 
remembered song-even in the midst of 
some dangerous situation requiring the 
utmost stealth. 

This doughty warrior wears nubby 
gold silk breeches and tunic under a 


heavy chain mail shirt. An iron-bound 
leather cap adorns his long brown locks. 
His gray, woolen cloak is clasped with an 
elaborately wrought gold and gem 
encrusted cloak pin. On his stubby hands 
he wears brown, furry gauntlets of ogre 
power. He carries a war hammer + 3, a dag 
ger + 1, and a bag of holding. 

Ismelian Sotadis 

Lawful 10th Level elf: Str 11; Int 14; Wis 
11; Con 11; Dex 8; Cha 11; AC 7; hp 32. 

"Ismelian the Archer," as he is some 
times called, learned his trade fighting in 
the kobold wars in the hills west of 
Selenica. This tall, keen-eyed, platinum 
haired elf is of the blood of the ancient 
high elves of Genander's house-those 
who lived in the Northlands of Thonia 
centuries before men came to Black- 
moor. It is dimly possible that Menander 
Ithamis, Lord of the Northern Elves in 
the time of King Uther, is his distant 
ancestor. Whatever the case, for Isme 
lian, his trip back through time is a won 
drous journey into a past that his people 
remember far better (and more immedi 
ately) than men. Everything in Black- 
moor is a delight that reminds him of 
some story or legend dear to his kin. 

Ismelian wears a misty gray riven cloak 
and a gray tunic over silvered chain mail 
armor. His feet are shod in knee-length 
gray elven boots. He carries a powerful 
long bow of yew and sinew, 14 normal 
arrows, 6 arrows + 1 , a sword + 1 , and a 
dagger. 

Ismelian knows the spells detect magic, 
protection from evil, read magic, shield, sleep, 
continual light, detect evil, knock, web, dispel 
magic, fireball, haste, polymorph others, poly 
morph self, and magic jar. 

Jarcel Takis 

Lawful 12th Level cleric: Str 12; Int 11; 
Wis 14; Con 16; Dex 11; Cha 7; AC 5; 
hp 60. 

Jarcel Tarkis is a rotund little man with a 
florid face framed by a mop of dishev 
elled brown hair. Though he is a good 
companion with a ready twinkle in his 


47 




PREROLLED CHARACTERS 


brown eyes and a hearty, ribald comment 
always on his lips, he is also an amaz 
ingly ugly man whose looks tend to 
frighten small children and family pets. 
Thus few strangers ever come to know 
the gentle Jareel behind the badly 
scarred, gargoyle face. 

The only time that Jareel is not spew 
ing forth a stream of jokes, riddles, and 
puns is when his mouth is full of food. 
Jareel loves his meat and is famous for 
his ability to sniff out the best table in any 
town, village, or pig track. His portly fig 
ure is an ever-growing tribute to this 
obsession and has caused many a foe to 
underestimate his prowess at rough-and- 
tumble. 

Takis favors simple, rough-weave 
clothing in common earth tones, but 
usually sports a gorgeous rust-colored, 
linsey-woolsey cloak over his bronzed 
chain mail armor. Pinned to the cloak is a 
scarab of protection with 6 uses. He also 
wears buttery soft, white doeskin leg 
gings, boots, and gaundets. He is never 
without his trusty blackthorn staff of strik 
ing (with 16 charges). Currently, he car 
ries a scroll of protection from magic. He 
knows the spells detect evil, detect magic, pro 
tection from evil, remove fear, bless, find traps, 
know alignment, resist fire, cure blindness, cure 
disease, remove curse, striking, animate dead, 
cure serious wounds, dispel magic, commune, 
raise dead, and find the path. 

Kokra the Touch 

Neutral 12th Level thief: Str 11; Int 10; 
Wis 9; Con 14; Dex 14; Cha 10; AC 7; 
hp 32. 

Kokra the Touch, formerly of the city of 
Ylaruam and, by his own account, a near 
relative of the obscure ancient Emir Hin- 
bul II (a thousand blessings upon his 


house and that of his favorite camel), is a 
notorious thief and liar whose ability to 
needlessly get into trouble is exceeded 
only by his ability to get out again. Like 
most Ylaruam sewer scum, Kokra con 
siders himself a poet, and he will talk 
relentlessly about his "works in prog 
ress" and the "muse" that whispers in 
his ear. His current project (and one that 
he is sure will make his fortune when he 
one day returns to Ylaruam) is a heroic 
lay about a sleeper who awakens in 
ancient Blackmoor and saves the king 
dom. Those who adventure with Kokra 
know that he often talks a good poem, 
but never writes one. 

The short, swarthy thief sports a trim 
black chin beard that, together with the 
ruby studs that he wears in his nose, give 
him an exotic, devil-may-care appear 
ance. Kokra wears a loose, desert-style 
white kaftan over his light gray leather 
armor, but keeps his head, with its mass 
of shiny black curley hair, uncovered. He 
carries a crossbow, 16 normal quarrels, 4 
quarrels +7, a sword +1, a dagger +], a 
scroll of protection from undead, and a bag of 
holding. 

Newton Depoe 

Neutral 12th Level magic user: Str 10; 
lnt 15; Wis 8; Con 10; Dex 9; Cha 10; 
AC 9; hp 24. 

Newton Depoe is slight, freckle-faced 
young man of medium height. Beneath 
an alarming shock of carroty red hair, set 
in a pale, raw-boned face, are clear 
emerald-green eyes that convey a feral 
joy like that of a fox about to enter a 
chicken coop for a midnight repast. The 
eyes are accented all the more by the 
matching green garments that Depoe 
favors. 


Depoe wears a bronze medallion of ESP 
and carries a throwing dagger, an elm 
staff of power with 16 charges, and a potion 
of healing. He knows the spells detect magic, 
hold portal, light, read magic, detect evil, detect 
invisible, knock, web, dispel magic, fly, infra- 
vision, protection from normal missiles, charm 
monster, massmorph, remove curse, animate 
dead, cloudkill, and stone to flesh. 

Purda Blue 

Lawful 12th Level fighter: Str 12; Int 12; 
Wis 11; Con 13; Dex 17; Cha 9; AC 4; 
hp 56. 

Tall, elegant, and fine-boned, the 
blonde, blue-eyed Purda Blue can set 
male hearts pounding just by entering a 
room. As if to belie her great beauty and 
emphasize her deadly profession, she 
tends to wear simple, serviceable male 
clothing in icy blues and cold grays. 
High-heeled gray suede boots make her 
seem even taller than her 6' 2." 

Purda Blue wears silvered chain mail 
+ 1. She carries a dagger with a filigreed 
silver hilt and an opal in the pommel and 
a lawful sword + 1 with an intelligence of 
9, an ego of 4, and the powers see invisible, 
detect evil, and find traps. The dagger is 
worth 1200 gold pieces. 

A renowned sword mistress, Purda 
Blue also fancies herself something of a 
wit. One of her amusements is the com 
position during combat of rhyming 
couplets that express in scathing detail 
her estimation of the ancestry, prowess, 
character, and probable destination of 
her current opponent. Her one failing as 
a fighter is that, whether raging with 
anger or amused by her poems, her eyes 
mirror her mood and intentions, often 
telegraphing her next move. 


48 







f C/T' 





^ vV 

s 

Tg. ¦ , 

.5 


1 X 

1 *1 

VlnV-* ¦ - I 

\u 1? 

/V X s 

jf k 

^ > 

ii'A 

5L A 


f\}3 

tT 



t* 

T 5sT 

 




y o 

1 ¦ <3 1 


*r^ ' M 

*5 i 


k 

% 

-.N 

v 1 

t!^jJ 






r' i 

/ /N/ >N, 

T / T 

?s Tk " 

'/ \ / \ 

[if 'l 

r r It t t 

? "" * T - 

i 

* \ 

\ ' / 

a : / 

/ 

1 / 


\ 

'v \ vA. y 

o ¦ 

a. 

g § 1 i i 




































































3 








Id] 

- 




A. o J 






at ^ 

](r)v^ '^V 

I *> 

1 r" rM V T 

Hr ' u 

111 

\ i 

v y 



fg 

j&l 

r? 

h:> 

U 

lD- 

y> 

jkj 

m x p Ti j 

Tsm 

" 

¦ 

1 £> 

I l> 
















































i 

l/T gK. 

iT 

u 


i T 

*T 

-T 

f - 


<* 1 


V 

V I 


To 

o 

o Y 

. Yp - * Y 

¦' % 

 , *' ; >i - x 

V 7 ]&| 

Jo 

" [a 


fR | 


- 1 


V. /C ^ 



/N 












































sj 

% n 

si[ 

X c X 

9 1 





?T PUB)S1 

: ; 1 



1 \ j 

gCfT 



¦¦>ii 

-ifci 


J / ] 


a 1 * 


" § 

2 #;S] 

' J 


y* * '*] 

rT ^tF o 


kv. " B to w I 

p ai §1 

V s* f tt 

JLS rvj 





















































MAP 3: THE ROBINSPORT CHASE FLOW CHART 












Door 



r 








































to M\ Qood men Who C)o Oppose the AfRidhi tyRAnny- 

know you that a teRRiBle thing has happeneP this night. In the 
1 PaRkest houRs, while thunPeR CRaekeP aRounP our heaPs, foul 
\ witcheRy was looseP upon the worIP. heRe at StaRmoRgan, which 
the AfRiPhi conqueRORs have maPe the seat of theiR tyRanny, the 
J high pRiestess of the BaRBaRians-the mistRess of QoP, foul toska 
I Rusa-calleP out in heR sleep anP PemanPeP that a scribc Be 
/ BROught to he.R. An' since But few of the BaRBaRian AfRiPhi can 
/ WRite, theRe was no scribc of theiR Race to Be haP. So l was 
/ BROught. 

foR long houRs thcReafteR, 1 sat anP scRiBBleP the icrribIc worPs 
that spilleP fRom heR slack mouth. foR't was not toska Rusa that 
spoke at all, But something else that spoke thRough heR-an evil 
K. thing, with a Booming voice that PueleP with the thunPeR anP huRt 
J mine eaRS. Zugzul, it calleP itself-eolP fiRe. ColP fiRe-goP of the 
afRiPhi. 

this PiP it say to its people thRough the mouth of them leaPeR. 
that they shoulP go into the BaRRens of kaRsh anP theRe finP a hill 
1 with a hollow c.Rown. An' they must Pig into the heaRt of that hill a 
tunnel. An' in its heaRt, they must buiIP a founPRy anP a temple. foR 
I theRe, aeeoRPing to the instRuetions that it spake to them, the 
I AfRiPhi must BRing into Being a gReat aRtifaet-an imn of platinum. 

/ theRe, in the heaRt of the volcano, they must foRge it anP 
[ eonsecRate it with BlooP. CfReet woulP come to aiP in the foRging. 
\J the Well of Souls, it woulP Be calleP. AnP it woulP make the 
I AfRiPhi teRRiBle in Battle, them enemies woulP quail BefORe them. 

/ the leaPeRS of them foes woulP Be hunteP By fell Beasts, them 
/ pRiestesses woulP commanP stORms of fme. So saiP Zugzul. 

[ But with his pRomise, he saiP moRe. that the Well of Souls must 
i Be closely guaRPeP, foR it coulP Be unPone. the fme that maPe it 
coulP unmake it. yet, only the hanP of as yet unBORn can Be the 
hanP of its unmaking, this was his pRopheey-anP he laugheP as he 
spake it. If it Be tRue, I know not what can Be Pone in our lives to/ 
stop this thing. I can only rccorP. my paRt is Pone. / 


-BeleRephon the Scribc. 







Expert Game Adventure 


rhe Duchy of Ten 

by David J. Ritchie 


The Well of Souls ... 

That's what Zugzul bade the Afridhi call the 
evil artifact that he had taught them to make. 
They must call it the Well of Souls, and they 
must carry it before them into every battle- 
and they would be mighty. Thus said the god of 
the Afridhi, Zugzul the One. 

So the Afridhi did as they were bade. Seek 
ing the volcano called the Hill of the Hammer in 
the far Barrens of Karsh, they built in its heart 
a great forge. There, as Zugzul had promised, 
efreet came to help them make the mighty arti 
fact. There, amid vile, unholy rites, they bound 
the souls of men into its very substance, and, 
as it took shape, they sharpened their swords 
for the red-handed work that must surely fol 
low hard upon its completion. 

Many were the men who guarded the Hill of 
the Hammer during the days of making-for 
their foes in hated Blackmoor would try to 
unmake that which they had wrought. Yet, it 
was not men that would keep the Well of Souls 
from destruction, but a prophecy-that the 
artifact would be unmade only by the hand of 
one as yet unborn! 

This adventure is for use with the DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS' Set, and cannot be played without 
the D&D Basic and Expert rules produced by 
TSR, Inc. 

-1987 TSR. 

TSR, Inc. 

POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 

Wl 53147 


Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in CJ.S.A. 

TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB14AD 
United Kingdom 


ISBN 0-88038-412-3 



1 



11 


0 

46363 09205 1 4 





















