Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 01145 The Rod Of Seven Parts ( Level 10 12)"
See other formats
mgs of an ageless war between, 

s^re drawing you into an erne adventure! 


SEVEN 

PARTS 
























































Dun 


rSEVEN 

PARTS 


TOMES 




| } | 1 



J ' yjjHgHjywAl'i 1 ,U ."rmr-LataLyAf i AWmftwtiTi IdUr 'rw# m 











































































Book I 


INITIATION ro POWER 

Table of Contents * 

44 
47 
50 

54 

55 

65 

66 
72 

72 

73 

77 

78 
80 
85 
92 


Introduction.3 

Background.3 

Adventure Summary.3 

Random Dice Rolls.5 

Experience.5 

The Quest Begins.6 

Night Raiders.8 

Approaching the Lair.9 

Inside the Tomb.12 

The Lower Level.20 

At the Sign of the Golden Cockatrice.26 

The Golden Cockatrice.26 

Events.29 

Incident at a Footbridge.38 

Spelunking. 41 

Inside the Lair.43 


Level 1.. 

Level A.. 

Level 2. 

LevelB . 

Level 3. 

LevelC . 

Level 4. 

Uninvited Guests. 

Approaching the Castle. 

Events. 

Inside the Castle. 

Cast of Characters. 

Upper Levels. 

Main Level. 

Lower Levels. 


Credits 

Design: Skip Williams 
Editing: David Eckelberry 

Cover Design: Stephen A. Daniele and Greg Kerkman 
Cover Illustration: R. K. Post 

Interior Illustrations: Glen Michael Angus, Arnie Swekel, Phillip Robb, Jim Roslof, and Erol Otus 

Graphic Design: Greg Kerkman 
Cartography: Diesel, David Martin, and Arnie Swekel 
Typesetting: Tracey L. Isler 
Art Director: Stephen A. Daniele 


Playtesters: Phil Anderson, Dave Conant, Shawn Costa, Scott Douglas, and Jon Pickens 



AD&D, ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM, and the TSR logo are 
registered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. MONSTROUS MANUAL and PLANESCArE are 
Irademarks owned by TSR, Inc, All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses 
thereof are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc 

(c)1996 TSR, Inc. All nghts reserved. This product is protected under the copyright laws of the United 
States of America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of the material or artwork con 
tained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR.Inc. 

Random House and its affilate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of ISK, Inc. Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United King 
dom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby market by regional distributors. 


TSR, Inc 

201 Sheridan Springs Road 
Lake Geneva 
WI53147 
U.S.A. 


TSR Ltd. 
120 Church End 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge, CB1 TLB 
United Kingdom 


1145XXX1501 
















































































































































































































Descriptions of the infamous Rod of Seven Parts can 
be found in arcane lore on many worlds, and no two 
accounts are exactly alike. For an artifact of law, the 
Rod is notoriously unpredictable. It hops about from 
world to world with the Queen of Chaos in pursuit. 
Wherever the Rod appears, the forces of Law stand 
ready to oppose this creature from the depths of the 
Abyss. 

This adventure describes what happens when the 
Rod of Seven Parts is discovered on your campaign 
world. There are plenty of surprises for everyone, 
even for players who have read game material previ 
ously published about the Rod. 

Background 

In a time long ago, war raged across the cosmos 
between the forces of Law and Chaos. Though the 
armies of the Queen of Chaos won most of the bat 
tles, they were forced to withdraw after their great 
general, Miska the Wolf Spider, was defeated and 
imprisoned by the Wind Dukes of Aaqa. The Wind 
Dukes created the Rod of Seven Parts to slay Miska. 
Unfortunately, the artifact merely wounded him and 
was itself shattered in the process. In the centuries 
since the final battle, the queen has scoured the mul- 
tiverse, looking for the Rod. If reassembled, the Rod 
could slay Miska, but it also holds the key to healing 
his wound and releasing him from his eternal impris 
onment. 

The Rod itself undergoes subtle changes each time 
it enters a new world, and its powers during this 
adventure are slightly different from those previ 
ously attributed to it. A more extensive history of the 
Rod and a full description of its powers during this 
adventure are included at the beginning of Book III. 

As the adventure opens, parts of the Rod lie scat 
tered across the world where the player characters 
live, and the Queen of Chaos is just beginning to 
realize where some of them might be. When the first 
segment of the Rod falls into the party's hands, they 
become embroiled in what is the latest chapter of the 
timeless struggle between Law and Chaos. 

Standing in opposition to the queen's aims, and 
aiding the player characters, are the remnants of the 
vaati, or Wind Dukes. This race of lawful immortals 
has mostly withdrawn from the affairs of mortals as 
it tries to recover from the losses it suffered during 
the war against Chaos. A small, dedicated cadre of 
vaati have remained to dedicate themselves to track 
ing the Rod and thwarting the queen. Yet all is not 


well in the beautiful Vale of Aaqa. One Wind Duke 
has grown impatient with the uneasy truce that has 
existed between Law and Chaos, and seeks to reopen 
the war by releasing Miska. Though they might 
never realize it, the PCs become pawns in a three- 
sided struggle as they search for segments of the Rod. 

Adventure Sunimary 

This product is a campaign-style adventure in 
which the party must undertake a series of shorter 
adventures to acquire portions of the Rod and learn 
how to assemble them. The adventure begins in 
Book I, the volume you are now reading. 

In the opening adventure, the party acquires the 
first segment of the Rod. Three different adventures 
are presented, and the DM is free to choose the one 
that best fits the campaign. 

The search for the second segment brings the party 
to the subterranean lair of an aboleth. An insightful 
party can save time and effort by questioning the 
aboleth's many slaves and servants, but in the end 
they must struggle long and hard to acquire the sec 
ond segment of the artifact. 

The third segment lies in the mountaintop lair of a 
cloud giant clan. The party has an opportunity to 
bluff their way into the lair and snatch the third seg 
ment, or they can use brute force. Brute force, how 
ever, is what giants are best at, and the party will 
have to be resourceful to prevail. 

Book II takes the heroes again across their world; 
this time they travel into a barren waste. The fourth 
and fifth segments rest in the desert lair of two efreet 
who have come to the PCs' world to collect slaves. 
The efreet have no idea that they own the Rod. Given 
a reasonable amount of skill and luck, the party can 
defeat the efreet, but finding the Rod will test their 
ability to analyze what they have found. 

The sixth segment is in a pocket dimension espe 
cially created by the baatezu. To get the segment, the 
party could defeat the dimension's guardian in com 
bat. Or, rather than forcing the pit fiend to give it up, 
the party can convince the fiend that they are worthy 
champions of Law. 

Miska himself guards the seventh and final seg 
ment of the Rod. Before the party departs on their 
final mission, they must reconcile conflicting advice 
from the vaati; it seems that not all the wind dukes 
have the party's best interests in mind. 

While the PCs search for individual segments of 
the Rod, other things demand their attention. First, 




Introduction 


they must discover how the Rod actually works and 
how they can put it together-the process is more 
difficult than just matching up the pieces. Mean 
while, as the queen becomes more interested in the 
PCs and their world, the very reality around the 
party begins to warp, and the party must contend 
with hit-and-run raids by groups of spyder-fiends, 
which serve as the queen's front-line troops in the 
struggle to gain the Rod. The party gets a visit from a 
ki-rin who is concerned about all the destruction they 
are leaving their wake, and they should meet 
Arquestan, a good-hearted vaati who aids the party 
in ways they probably don't even suspect. Finally, 
the PCs might find themselves scrambling after 
pieces of the Rod they have inadvertently lost. 

These sick treks are extremely important to the 
structure of the campaign adventure. Without them, 
the party never confronts the Queen of Chaos or her 
minions until the end of it all. Without them, the 
party never encounters their allies, the ancient vaati. 
Finally, without these story-minded events, the indi 
vidual chapters become a disjointed scavenger hunt. 
See Book III for more information on how the 
adventures link together. 

Preparing for Play 

This product contains lots of detail about the set 
tings the party will visit and the creatures they will 
meet. Much, however, is left up to you, the DM. For 
example, you will decide exactly where each adven 
ture takes place in your campaign world. The intro 
ductions to the adventures contain some suggestions 
about the prevailing terrain, but only you can decide 
which particular corner of your campaign world can 
hold each setting. Likewise, each encounter contains 
considerable detail about what the creatures in it will 
do when the party enters the scene. It is important 
that you use the material to put yourself into the role 
of the creatures and NPCs that the PCs encounter. If 
the circumstances warrant a departure from what is 
described, you should do so. The material presented 
here is a guideline, not a straight jacket. 

In a similar vein, you have great leeway in decid 
ing how quickly and easily the party can get infor 
mation about the Rod. The party might discover all 
they need to know in a single conversation with a 
sage or NPC wizard, or they may struggle to under 
stand the clues and hints they discover during the 
adventure. It all depends on what kind of challenge 
you decide the party should have. 


In any case, this adventure is written for a party of 
five to seven characters at the 10th to 12th level of 
experience (60-70 character levels in all). The party 
should contain at least one character from each char 
acter class (warrior, wizard, rogue, and priest), and 
two warriors and two wizards with at least one char 
acter from the other classes is best. Although the 
party will have many opportunities to role-play, 
fighting effectively is a critical skill in each adven 
ture. A purely hack-and-slash approach will make 
things unnecessarily hard on the party, but a party 
that cannot hold its own in a contest of arms has little 
chance of surviving. 

The adventure contains passages of boxed text. 
These passages contain descriptions of things the 
characters see, feel, smell, etc., and should be read 
aloud or paraphrased to the players. Items marked 
with bullets (•) contain important information for 
the DM; the PCs may or may not discover this infor 
mation, depending on what they do. Typically, text 
marked with a bullet contains a summary of the 
things a creature might say in response to an appro 
priate question from the PC. 

Alert: these paragraphs are found at the end of an 
encounter description. They are designed to help the 
DM organize his monsters and NPCs intelligently. 
Rather than waiting peacefully for the PCs to arrive, 
the party's enemies will respond, fortify, and coun 
terattack. Contained here is information on what 
may occur as a result of the encounter. For example, 
if the guards at the gate of a castle raise an alarm, this 
section briefly sketches out who would be likely to 
react. 

DM Note: paragraphs such as these contain 
important reminders about the AD&D game rules, 
special rules used in the adventure, and other items 
of particular importance. 

The monsters in this adventure are drawn from 
diverse sources, including the Monstrous Manual (tm) 
Tome, the Monstrous Compendium (r): Planescape(tm) 
Appendix, the Monstrous Compendium Annual Vol 
ume One, and the Monstrous Compendium Annual 
Volume Two. Fortunately, you don't need all these 
books to run this adventure. Complete notes for each 
creature are included in the adventure text, though 
the books can be helpful in understanding the crea 
ture more fully. Several creatures are entirely new; 
these are fully described in Book IV. 





Introduction 


Random Dice Roils 

At critical times during play, it might be necessary 
for you to roll percentile dice to determine exactly 
what happens. In particular, whenever the PCs use 
one of the Rod's major powers or create one of the 
magical glyphs needed to assemble the Rod, a per 
centile roll is required to see if the Rod breaks apart. 
While it usually is a good idea to roll the dice and 
apply the consequences, some judgment is necessary 
in these two cases. Early in the adventure, when the 
PCs are just learning about the Rod, it is fine to leave 
them at the mercy of the dice. Later, an unlucky per 
centile roll could create a frustrating or deadly situa 
tion for the party. In general, it is a good idea not to 
roll the dice when the party is using the Rod at an 
appropriate time. For example, it is prudent to use 
the Rod's wind walk power to move around in the 
final adventure. Do not roll to see if the Rod breaks in 
this instance. (You may want to go ahead and roll 
some dice behind a screen to keep your players on 
their toes, however.) On the other hand, if the party 
knows the Rod can break and uses a power when 
they don't have to (perhaps to save a spell or a 
charge from a magical item), roll the dice and apply 
the results. 

It is a good idea to use the dice sparingly when 
determining the results of the tanar'ri gate ability. If 
the party's level total 65 or less, roll for gating only 
when the text calls for a roll. Even then, assume the 
gate attempt fails if the party has already taken a 
beating. If the party's levels total 71 or more, the 
tanar'ri should roll gate attempts at the beginning of 
every encounter and any gate attempts called for in 
the text should succeed automatically. In any case, 
fiends summoned into an encounter should not use 
their own gate abilities unless the party is making 
quick work of it all. 

Percentile rolls to determine if the Queen of Chaos 
notices the Rod being used should always be made. 

Experience 

In addition to the experience value of the monsters 
the party defeats, you should give the PCs a story 
award of 75,000 to 100,000 xp each time they com 
plete an adventure by recovering the Rod segment or 
segments featured in it. If the party retreats and an 
NPC must recover the segment, the party should get 
half the award or no award, depending on how 
much information they were able to give the NPC 



about the situation. If the queen's agents steal a seg 
ment of the Rod during an adventure, the party 
should get no story award. 

If you are awarding experience for treasure and 
magical items recovered, you might wish to skip the 
story awards, or subtract the amount of treasure 
experience you give from the story award. It is not a 
good idea to give both a story award and a treasure 
award. 

In addition, you should give an award of 100,000 
xp for slaying Miska or 50,000 xp for keeping him 
imprisoned (see the Citadel of Chaos adventure in 

Book II). 



THE GKJEJT BEQINJ 


The quest for the Rod of Seven Parts begins when the 
player characters embark on a search for the first 
piece or when they fortuitously acquire it. It might 
be quite some time before the PCs comprehend 
exactly what they've started. This chapter offers 
three different opening adventures. You are free to 
choose the one that best fits your group's style of 
play. Brief descriptions of the adventures follow: 

Night Raiders: is a fairly long adventure that can be 
played in two or three evenings. It is a dungeon 
crawl intended for groups that enjoy exploring dark 
monster lairs and favor combat (though a little 
clever role-playing will get them in the front door 
more easily than flashing swords will). It also offers 
a sense of history on the first segment. 

At the Sign of the Golden Cockatrice: is a short 
adventure that can be played in one evening. It is 
intended for role-players and for groups who like to 
poke around and see how much trouble they can get 
themselves into. The PCs have to stay on their toes, 
however, because they face a dangerous combat at 
the end. 

Incident at a Footbridge: is a single encounter that 
can be played in an hour or two. While it is essen 
tially an ambush with a brief opportunity for role- 
playing at the beginning, the encounter tests the 
group's ability to handle combat and to think 
quickly. It is suitable for any type of group, and can 
easily be integrated into an ongoing adventure. 

If more than one of these adventures has appeal 
for you or your group, you can combine all three 
opening adventures into one grand adventure. For 
example, the party begins by having a good time at a 
festhall (At the Sign of the Golden Cockatrice). 
There they encounter Eudora, the diviner from Inci 
dent at a Footbridge who hires the party to accom 
pany her as she searches for the Rod. She does not 
tell them what she's really after, she just says she is 
hunting for some odds and ends to aid her in her 
research. Eudora leads the PCs to Osakay's lair (the 
Night Raiders adventure), where they recover the 
first segment of the Rod. 

On their way back home, kakkuu ambush the 
characters as they cross a footbridge (the Incident at 
a Footbridge adventure), where Eudora is killed or 
rendered insane, or both. 

You can also borrow material from one of the 


three adventures when you're running another. For 
example, the playtesters decided to hire a tracker 
before embarking on the Night Raiders adventure. 

A stop at the Golden Cockatrice allowed them to post 
a notice and the party quickly hired Lynnya. 

DM Note: You may also want to save one or two 
of these opening adventures. Later, they can be used 
to get the party back on track if they failed to acquire 
one of the segments, or if a sebment was lost. For 
more information on these contingencies, see Side 
Treks in Book III. 

The material presented in this product is for you, 
the DM. Use it as you see fit. 

Afterward 

Ideally, the PCs will finish this chapter with the 
first segment of the Rod in hand. If they don't, the 
Troubleshooting section will help you get things 
back on track. 

Once the PCs have the first segment, they can 
move on to Spelunking, where they can gain the 
next segment, or take a side trek to learn more about 
the Rod (see Book III). On the other hand, it may not 
be immediately obvious to the PCs what they have 
just acquired, and they may some spend time adven 
turing before they realize exactly what they have 
stumbled onto. Meanwhile, of course, the Queen of 
Chaos will send her minions to hound the party. 

Troubleshooting 

This section deals with the loose ends and plot 
complications that the DM might face when running 
the adventures in this chapter. 

• The spyder-fiends got the first segment of the Rod. 
This is not likely to happen unless the PCs just sit 
back and let the spyder-fiends have their way. 
(Remember that the fiends cannot handle any part of 
the Rod safely, they have to get another creature to 
carry it for them.) The queen has won a victory, but 
all is not lost. The wind duke Arquestan can pay a 
visit to the PCs and send them searching for the next 
segment. Meanwhile, perhaps the queen could 
recruit mortal servants to send after the second seg 
ment as well, giving the party a second chance at the 
first segment. Nevertheless, the queen has gained a 
toehold in the world, and the amount of Chaos 
increases. 





Arquestan's visit is described in the Mysterious 
Stranger encounter in Book III. The spread of Chaos 
is described in the Chaos Waves encounter, also in 

Book III. 

• The PCs did not get the Rod segment, but they did 
they allow it to fall into the queen's hands. It is safe 
to assume that another group of adventurers eventu 
ally recovers the Rod. Simply run another adventure 
from this chapter to give the PCs another chance. 

Some of the adventures work especially well 
together. For example, if the PCs failed to get the 
segment from Osakay's lair. Ranee might pick it up, 
only to be slain by the spyder-fiends at the Golden 
Cockatrice. Similarly, if the PCs (and the hounds of 
law) drove away all the spyder-fiends from the 
Golden Cockatrice without getting the Rod them 
selves, somebody from the Golden Cockatrice's staff 
picks it up. Eventually, the sage Eudora could get a 
hold of it. 


The dark naga Osakay has found the Rod's first seg 
ment in an ancient tomb. Osakay does not under 
stand the segment's true nature, but is fond of its cure 
light wounds power (which the naga can use because 
the Rod is mentally activated). 

Osakay, ever hungry for wealth and power, has 
assembled a band of ores, ogres, trolls, and ettins. 
Under the naga's direction, the humanoids have 
begun raiding settlements and ambushing travelers 
ih their area. So far, no one has traced them back to 
their hidden lair because the raiders have been care 
ful to cover their tracks. 

The lair lies in a mountainous area fairly distant 
from the PCs' base of operations. The area should be 
about two weeks' travel away, close enough so they 
can hear rumors coming from the area, but far 
enough away so the PCs have to make a commitment 
for the adventure. There are several ways the PCs 
might become involved, again depending on your 
preference and style of play: 

• The PCs are traveling through the wilderness on 
unrelated business when ores, reinforced by ogres 
and trolls, ambush them during the night. (Use the 
statistics from page 9.) The attackers flee if the battle 
goes against them. 

• Thh;|?Cs hear tales of cunning ores terrorizing an 
area. Though the band is small, they have larger crea 
tures allied with them and have executed their raids 
brilliantly. The party has the opportunity for role- 
playing as they acquire information from natives of 
the area about these organized raiders. 

• The PCs hear a gruesome tale from a survivor of an 
ore raid. The ores attacked a small caravan when it 
was camped at night, killing everything in sight and 
stripping the bodies of all items, even normal cloth 
ing. The storyteller survived by playing dead and 
creeping away when the ores were distracted by a 
choice bit of loot, namely a big ruby. 

The Tomb 

In ancient times, Siryl, a warrior king, owned the 
first segment of the Rod, and had his court wizard 
attach a handle to it. When Siryl died, the segment 
was buried with him, along with a considerable 
amount of other treasure. (Alternately, the tomb 
could have been built for some other legendary hero 


or ruler in your campaign.) In any case, the tomb has 
fallen into disrepair over the centuries and has been 
looted several times. 

Osakay rediscovered the tomb not long ago, after 
rooting out several creatures that had taken up resi 
dence. It found the Rod segment, which previous 
looters had overlooked (probably because it does not 
appear valuable or magical). Osakay decided that the 
tomb would make a good lair. But it is only a matter 
of time before the segment attracts attention, either 
from adventurers or the Queen of Chaos. 

The tomb is an excellent hideout for Osakay's band 
of cutthroats, located in an area of forested badlands 
interlaced with valleys and streams. The entrance is 
tucked under an overhanging cliff and further 
shielded by the trees growing on the slopes sur 
rounding the valley below the cliff. The entrance is 
almost impossible to spot from the air or from the 
valley floor. 

No map of the area surrounding the tomb is pro 
vided. Maps of the tomb and its entrance are 
included on Mapsheet A (Maps A1 and A2). A play 
ers' map of the entrance is included on Mapsheet D 
(Map Dl). 

Searching for the Lair 

The most reliable way to locate the tomb is to track 
one of the raiding parties back to it. As noted above, 
victorious raiding parties are disciplined enough to 
cover their tracks. If the characters defeat a raiding 
party, however, they have an opportunity to follow a 
fresh trail back to the lair (the raiders cover the trail on 
their way back from a fight). Even unskilled trackers 
can follow this trail if they roll under one-half their 
Wisdom scores on ld20 (only one check is allowed for 
each member of the party). If a character with a track 
ing proficiency is present, she can make a normal 
tracking roll with a +9 bonus for heavy brush and the 
large number of creatures in the group (see Table 39 in 
the PHB). 

The PCs' opportunity will not be so great if any 
raiders escape a fight with the party; see below for 
details. 

If the PCs do not defeat a raiding party, they can 
go to the site of an ambush or raid and scour the 
countryside. Any local resident can and gladly will 
tell the PCs where to start looking. 

Characters with the local history or ancient history 
proficiencies can get a hint about the lair's where- 



Night Raiders 


abouts with a successful proficiency roll. The local his 
tory proficiency reveals that many kinds of creatures 
often take up residence in the many abandoned tombs 
hidden in the valleys around here. The ancient history 
proficiency reveals that there are dozens of tombs 
from a lost kingdom in the nearby area. Most of them 
have been looted and vandalized, then forgotten. If 
you prefer, you may of course role-play individual 
encounters with NPCs in order to provide valuable 
information to the party. 

Should all else fail, the local authorities give the 
PCs a crude map that shows the site of each attack. A 
circle has been drawn around all the sites, and the 
official showing the map to the group explains that 
the raiders' lair probably lies within the circle. 

If the PCs search for the lair using any of these 
methods (scouring the countryside around an attack 
site, searching the tombs, or searching within the cir 
cle on the official's map), they find the lair within 
3d6 days. Each day the PCs spend searching, there is 
a l-in-6 chance of encountering a small raiding party 
from the lair. If the PCs favor a more indirect 
approach to ore hunting, they can pose as merchants 
or travelers themselves. If the group is not large or 
powerful looking, they have a 2-in-6 chance each day 
to encounter a raiding party: 

Ogres (4): AC 4 (chain mail); MV 6 (moderate 
encumbrance); HD 4+1; hp 27, 23, 21,19; THACO 17 
(15 with Strength bonus); #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 2d4+6 
(bardiche + Strength bonus) or ld8+6/ld8+6 (com 
posite long bow and sheaf arrow + Strength bonus); 
SZ L (9'+); ML Steady (11); Int Low (7); AL CE; XP 
270 each; MM/272. 

Special Equipment: One flask of oil and 20 sheaf 
arrows each. 

Ores (10): AC 6 (studded leather & shield); MV 9 
(moderate encumbrance); HD 1; hp 6 each; THACO 
19; #AT 1 or 2; Dmg ld8 (battle axe) or Id8/ld8 
(composite long bow and sheaf arrow); SZ M (6' tall); 
ML steady (12); Int average (8); AL LE; XP 15 each; 
MM/281. 

Special Equipment: Two flasks of oil and 20 sheaf 
arrows each. 

Troll: AC 4; MV 12; HD 6+6; hp 36 each; THACO 
13; #AT 3 or 2; Dmg ld4+4/ld4+4/ld8+4 
(claw/claw/bite) or ld4+8/ld4+8 (thrown daggers + 
Strength bonus); SD regeneration; SW slashing 
weapons can sever limbs, fire or acid prevents regen 


eration; SZ L (9' tall); ML elite (14); Int low (7); AL 
CE; XP 1,400; MM/349. 

Notes: Any edged weapon can sever a troll's limb 
on a roll of a natural 20. Severed limbs continue to 
fight. A troll regenerates 3 hit points per round, start 
ing the third round after damage is inflicted. A troll 
cannot regenerate damage inflicted by fire or acid. 

Special Equipment: Six daggers. 

When attacking, the ores form a line and fire their 
arrows while the ogres and the troll hide on the 
flanks. When the enemy attacks the ores, the ogres 
and the troll join the combat, launching missile 
attacks first, then charging the opponent's flanks. 

PCs with experience in fighting these humanoids 
will note that they attack with some semblances of 
tactical training. Nevertheless, if an encounter goes 
against them, all the humanoids flee. Fleeing ores 
take a long and roundabout path back to the lair. 
They cover their tracks if they get a chance and do 
not return to the lair if they know they are being fol 
lowed. The ogres and the troll, however, head 
straight for the lair. 

Alert: If the PCs pursue the fugitives, the whole 
lair will be alerted and will meet the PCs in force; 
additional guards will be posted near the entrance 
(see area 6), and all the lair will be awake and pre 
pared when encountered. 

Approaching the Lair 

Unless they can fly or scale the cliffs, the characters 
must approach the entrance from the south or east, 
moving uphill. To the north, a cliff rises 200 feet over 
the tomb's main entrance. To the west, another 60 
foot cliff falls away from this small plateau. The cliffs 
on the north and west sides of the entrance are sheer, 
and must be climbed. Fortunately, they are rough, 
with many handholds for climbing (see Chapter 14 of 
the PHB). Meanwhile, characters ascending the hill 
move at one-third their normal speed. Even atop the 
hill, they are still reduced to half speed because of 
the debris and underbrush. 

The trees and undergrowth limit sight and ranged 
attacks. Creatures of medium size are invisible at 
ranges beyond 120 feet, though they can be heard 
moving up to 150 feet away (200 feet away if moving 
through the midden or rubble). Larger creatures can 
be seen and heard an extra 20 feet away per size cate 
gory above medium; smaller creatures cannot be 


seen or heard for an additional 30 feet of distance per 
size category below medium. Creatures are virtually 
immune to missiles or spells if they are too far away 
to be seen. All creatures gain 25% cover (+2 bonus to 
armor class and saving throws) against any missile 
attack made at a range of more than 60 feet, regard 
less of the creature's size. 

Creatures that are flying or climbing the north cliff 
gain cover and concealment only for the horizontal 
range through the trees, not the actual distance 
between them and their foes. (It's easy to see and 
shoot at a creature in the clear air; it's the trees that 
cause the problems.) It is possible to use spells such 
as clairvoyance or wizard eye to effectively extend a 
character's sight beyond 120 feet, but targets gain an 
additional 25% cover (see Table 44 in the DMG) for 
every additional 60 feet of range. Of course, charac 
ters can hide behind trees or boulders to get extra 
cover. Any benefits gained from hiding behind an 
obstacle are added to any benefits the character 
receives from an incoming attack's range. 

At night, a character with infravision can see 60 
feet or the range of his infravision, whichever is 
greater, and ranged attacks suffer the same penalties 
as listed above. Characters without infravision can 
see a maximum of 60 feet, and their ranged attacks 
begin suffering penalties at a range of 30 feet. 

Despite the poor visibility, the denizens of the 
tomb keep a constant watch, as noted in the descrip 
tion for location 3. 

About the Players' Map: Bring out the players' map 
(Map Dl) when the PCs have done something to scout 
the area (climbing a tree for a look around, flying over 
the area, or just walking around a bit). Some impor 
tant features, such as the pits and the entrance to area 
13, are not shown on the players' map because the 
characters can't see them right away. Note that the 
midden (location 2) is shown as rubble on the players' 
map; the characters can't tell it is a pile of smelly 
garbage until they get close to it. Be sure to trace the 
group's movements on your own map. 

Rubble 

These areas are piled high with shards of rock that 
have fallen from the cliff. Characters make quite a bit 
of noise when moving through rubble, as noted 
above. Invisible creatures can easily be tracked when 
they move across rubble. Due to the unsure footing, 
characters moving through rubble suffer a x2 initia 


tive penalty and loss of defensive bonuses from Dex 
terity. Attempts to move silently across rubble suffer 
a -25% penalty. 

Pits 

The ores created these concealed pits under 
Osakay's direction. The covers collapse when more 
than 50 pounds of weight are placed upon them. 

The pits themselves are 20 feet deep and their bot 
toms are studded with sharpened wooden stakes 
that are none too clean. Characters falling into the 
pits suffer 2d6 points of damage from the fall and 
4d6 points of damage from the stakes. A successful 
saving throw vs. breath weapon reduces the damage 
from the stakes to 2d6 points. Characters also suffer 
ld6 points of extra damage when the rubble cover 
ing the pits falls on them. A feather fall negates dam 
age from the fall and from the stakes, but not from 
the rubble. 

If a character is impaled and one or more of the 
damage dice from the stakes (not from the fall or 
debris) rolls a "6," he develops a disease. After 3d8 
hours, the victim develops a fever. Movement is 
reduced to half and he loses 2d6 points of Dexterity 
and Constitution. The disease is not fatal, but the 
effects persist for 2d4 weeks if not cured magically. 
During this time, the character must roll a Constitu 
tion check vs. his reduced score every time he under 
takes a strenuous activity (combat, running lifting, 
etc.). If the roll fails, he passes out for ld4+l rounds. 
Once this disease is cured, reduced ability score 
points return at the rate of one point per day of rest; 
however, the character must attempt a saving throw 
vs. poison. If the saving throw fails, the victim loses 
one point of Dexterity and Constitution permanently. 
A saving throw is not required if the character 
receives a cure before symptoms develop (in the first 
3d8 hours). 

Boulders 

The large boulders shown on the map are about 15 
feet high. Under Osakay's direction, the ores have 
hollowed out the tops of the three boulders they use 
as sentry posts to provide them with cover as noted 
above. The ores use the adjacent trees to scale the 
boulders; the trees are studded with spikes and are 
as easy to climb as a ladder. Characters can attempt 
to climb the boulders' sides, which are very smooth 
for climbing purposes (see PHB, Chapter 14). 






1. Trails 

Osakay has ordered its minions to vary their 
paths when going to and from the tomb. In spite of 
this, the humanoids have worn two faint trails lead 
ing up the hillside. If the characters are approaching 
the tomb on foot, they will spot one of these before 
they see anything else. The trails offer a safe path 
through the pit traps on the hilltop, but anyone 
using them will pass right under the noses of the 
sentries in area 3. 

Movement along the trails also is quicker than 
moving through the undergrowth. Characters move 
at half speed going uphill along a trail and at normal 
speed on the hilltop. Trails do not affect ranged 
attacks or the amount of noise characters make when 
moving. 

2. Midden 

The raiders throw all their rubbish here. The foul 
smelling heap contains nightsoil, food scraps, 
masonry debris, chunks of mildewed plaster, and all 
manner of castoffs. The trees hide the mound from 
sight until a character actually reaches the edge, but 


the odor is noticeable up to 30 feet away. 

When raiding, the humanoids take just about 
everything they can carry away, then carefully search 
everything once back at the lair. They keep only the 
choicest items and throw the rest away. 

The heap is unstable and ready to slide several 
dozen more feet down the slope. Characters walking 
in the heap or searching it must attempt a saving 
throw vs. petrification every round. If they fail, they 
fall and are carried downhill with the sliding trash. 
The slide inflicts ld4 points of damage to each char 
acter who failed a saving throw. 

Characters walking on the trash heap suffer a +2 
penalty to initiative rolls and lose any defensive 
bonuses due to Dexterity. Attempts to move silently 
over the trash heap suffer a -50% penalty. Invisible 
creatures walking across the trash heap are easily 
tracked because of the noise and the yielding 
surface. 

The three carrion crawlers from area 13 emerge at 
night to scavenge in the heap. Their multiple feet 
allow them to crawl among the trash without fear of 
falling and being crushed in the debris, but they do 
kick loose bits of trash fairly often. The opening to 
their chamber is visible from 30 feet away. 




Night Raiders 


Alert: The ores ignore sounds from the midden; the 
rubbish is always shifting and the carrion crawlers 
tend to make a lot of noise when foraging (the ores 
haven't figured out that the carrion crawlers only 
come out at night). However, if the ores hear the 
party talking near the midden, they take a look. 

3. Sentry Posts 

Two ores keep watch over the hilltop from stations 
atop some of the huge boulders that litter the area. 
Unless alerted by a survivor from a fight with the 
PCs, the ores tend to huddle under the trees during 
the daytime, seeking shade. This makes them less 
likely to notice intruders but keeps them hidden 
from aerial observation. At night, the sentries pace 
along the tops of the boulders, giving them a wider 
field of view. Day or night, the ores are hard to see, as 
they stay hidden behind the crowns of the boulders; 
they cannot be seen unless they attack, someone 
climbs up to attack them, or someone scans the boul 
ders with a detect invisibility spell. 

The boulders also provide 90% cover to the ores 
when they are not attacking and 50% cover when 
they are. This is in addition to any cover the ores gain 
due to an incoming attack's range. 

The sentries eventually notice if the PCs attempt 
to descend the north cliff, but they won't see the 
characters until they reach the hilltop if they come 
from the west. The ores are not expecting any intru 
sions from that direction; their attention is mainly 
directed to the east and south. During the day, how 
ever, the ores are listless and won't notice the PCs 
unless they make a lot of noise, attack one of the sen 
try posts with flashy spells or missiles, or come 
within 30 feet. 

If the ores notice any intruders, they signal each 
other with silent hand gestures, and the ores atop the 
northernmost boulder signal the ettin at location 4. 
Once that is done they hunker down and wait for a 
chance to catch the enemy in a crossfire. They are 
particularly fond of raining arrows and flaming oil 
down on groups trying to free someone from one of 
the pit traps. (Each sentry post has a pot of hot 
embers for quickly lighting oil flasks. They are kept 
well hidden so they are not readily detectable, even 
with infravision.) 

If two of the six ores are slain, the survivors head 
for area 4 at top speed (using the trails if they can 
reach them), whooping at the tops of their lungs. 


Ores (6): AC 6 (studded leather & shield); MV 9 
(moderate encumbrance); HD 1; hp 6 each; THACO 
19; #AT 1 or 2; Dmg ld8 (battle axe) or Id8/ld8 
(composite long box and sheaf arrow); SD 50% or 
90% cover; SZ M (6' tall); ML steady (12); Int average 
(8); AL LE; XP 15 each; MM/281. 

Notes: If not attacking, the ores have 90% cover, 
which gives them a +10 bonus to armor class and 
saving throws. When attacking, they have 50% cover, 
which gives them a +4 bonus to armor class and sav 
ing throws. 

Special Equipment: Two flasks of oil and 20 sheaf 
arrows each. 

Inside the Tomb 

The PCs can enter the tomb either through the 
main entrance (area 4) or through the opening near 
the carrion crawlers' chamber (area 13). Unless other 
wise noted, the tomb's interior is unlit. The residents 
depend on their infravision. (The trolls and ettins 
have infravision with a 90-foot range; the other resi 
dents have infravision with a 60-foot range.) 

The artificial areas within the tomb have ceilings 
twice as high as they are wide. Artificial areas also 
have ventilation shafts, one for every 15-foot square 
of floor area. For example, area 5 has four shafts, 
area 6 has one shaft, and the corridor leading from 
the main entrance has a shaft every 15 feet. The 
shafts are about 18 inches wide, large enough to 
admit a size tiny creature; however, each is covered 
with a grating of sturdy bronze bars (see the descrip 
tion for area 22 for details). The air shafts wind 
upward through solid rock and open onto the cliff 
face about 100 feet above the hilltop, where they are 
blocked by identical gratings. The openings are dis 
guised as natural cracks in the cliff face and are 
overgrown with vines. If the PCs search for them, 
treat them as concealed doors. 

The natural areas within the tomb are as high as 
they are wide. This makes the 5-foot passages a bit 
cramped for any creature more than 5 feet tall. Such 
creatures suffer a -1 penalty to attack rolls and armor 
class (though all normal bonuses apply). No creature 
can use a large weapon inside the five-foot natural 
passages. 

The tomb's interior was originally covered in elabo 
rately carved and vividly painted plaster that showed 
scenes from the lives of the people buried in it. Time, 
looters, and water seeping into the tomb ruined the 






Night Raiders 


plaster work, and Osakay, who has developed a pas 
sion for neatness as a side effect of owning a segment 
of the Rod (see Book III, page 9), has ordered its min 
ions to scrape it all away, leaving only bare rock. Most 
of the lair is scrupulously neat and clean, as Osakay 
sees to it that its troops keep their living areas tidy. 
There is hardly a speck of dust anywhere. 

Doors in the tomb are hard to open, requiring a 
standard open doors roll. Residents of the tomb, 
however, are familiar with each door's particular 
quirks and can open unlocked doors automatically. 
Some doors are locked; this is noted in the individual 
area description where applicable. A locked door can 
be forced open with a reduced open doors roll (see 
Chapter 1 of the PHB). The party can also employ 
knock spells, batter down the doors with spells or 
weapons, or pick the locks. Knock spells work nor 
mally. If attacked, a door has an armor class of 1 and 
25 hit points. Slashing weapons inflict half damage, 
piercing weapons inflict quarter damage, and blunt 
weapons inflict one point per hit. The doors save vs. 
spells as hard metal with a +4 bonus. If the save fails, 
the spell inflicts damage just as though it were cast at 
a character. Otherwise, the spell inflicts ld4 points of 
damage. Of course, forcing a door open violently will 
create noise sufficient to attract the attention of the 
nearby denizens. 

Unless noted otherwise, stairs descend 5 feet for 
every 5 feet of length. 

Finally, remember that the inhabitants of the tomb 
have the power to react and act independently of the 
party. Make use of the Alert section. If the PCs come 
charging through with no thought of the disturbance 
they are making, the whole complex will be alert to 
their presence in short order. If given the opportu 
nity, Osakay will eventually marshal all of its forces 
and assault the party in a horde (see area 19). If the 
party is chopping through the lair's denizens with 
ease even when they are prepared, they will retreat 
and regroup to fight "another day." 

4. Entrance 

One of the lair's two ettins is always on guard here. 
The ettin keeps a sharp lookout with both heads, and 
is almost certain to notice the PCs when they 
approach unless they are both invisible and silent. 

The entrance is visible from about 300 feet away, 
but the PCs have to get within 60 feet of the entrance 
to get a good look at it. Tactical Map D2 shows the 
area in detail. 


A wide stair of white marble rises about 5 feet to a 
rectangular opening in the cliff face. The opening 
must be 25 or 30 feet high and about half that 
wide. A pair of massive statues (about 20 feet high) 
depicting bearded warriors in archaic armor flank 
the stairs; the statue on the left has been broken off 
at the chest. Behind the statues, tall columns of 
green marble support a pediment made of the 
same material. A huge medallion of white marble 
is set in the pediment. There is writing chiseled 
into the medallion, but you can't read it from here. 

At the top of the stairs, a passage with a green 
floor stretches into the darkness past what remains 
of a pair of colossal bronze doors; most of the 
metal seems to have been cut away, leaving only 
two metal flaps hanging askew from bent hinges. 
Fallen rubble litters the stairs and the passage, and 
you can see bits of the broken statue among the 
debris. You can also recognize a huge, two-headed 
giant squatting in the opening. It seems to be alert, 
looking about with both heads. The creature dis 
plays a pair of sour expressions, and it is armed 
with a pair of massive clubs. It appears to be wear 
ing a manacle on one hairy ankle. 

The tablet in the pediment reads: "Siryl Rex, Con 
queror and Statesman," or some other epitaph that is 
appropriate to the campaign and to the tomb's occu 
pant. The description is written in an ancient version 
of Common and is indecipherable without a compre 
hend languages spell, a successful use of the rogue 
read languages ability, or a successful use of the 
ancient languages proficiency (if the language the 
character knows is ancient Common or its equivalent 
in the campaign). 

The ettin is indeed manacled and in a surly mood. 
The two resident ettins are recent additions to 
Osakay's band, and they do not serve the naga will 
ingly. The other inhabitants treat the ettins none too 
gently. In fact, Osakay allows the ogres and trolls to 
amuse themselves at the ettins' expense. The ettins 
are alert guardians only because Osakay has threat 
ened them with painful deaths if they ever allow 
anyone to get into the tomb. 

The ettin wears a ball and chain to keep it from 
running away while on guard duty. The ball and 
chain assembly weighs about 550 pounds. The chain 
is 40 feet long, and the ettin can move freely when it 
is just dragging the chain along. Once the chain is 
stretched to its full length, however, the ettin has to 


13 



Night Raiders 


drag the ball along (or pick it up and carry it), which 
encumbers it severely. 

If the ores at location 3 have given the warning, the 
ettin is alert and receives an additional +2 bonus to 
its surprise rolls. It is nasty and stupid, but just 
bright enough to realize the PCs might allow it to 
escape-and just suspicious enough to be afraid that 
it is being watched from inside. If it sees the PCs and 
there are no ores in sight, the ettin merely grimaces 
menacingly. If the PCs are hot on the heels of some 
fleeing ores, the ettin attacks the ores, hoping to curry 
the PCs' favor. 

Observant characters might negotiate with the ettin 
and gain a quiet entry into the tomb. The ettin wants 
its freedom, and that's all it wants. It is even willing to 
offer its fine hauberk as a bribe. If the raiders have 
already been warned about the PCs (for example, if 
the PC chased a group of raiders back to this site), the 
ettin knows it is being watched and will not parley 
with the PCs. The ettin is not interested in money or 
food under any circumstances. It wants to escape. The 
ettin knows very little about the complex. It has never 
been beyond area 10 and has never been in any cham 
ber except area 5. It knows about the secret door in 
area 5 but does not know how to open it. 

If the PCs reach an agreement with the ettin, they 
can free it with a successful open locks attempt, a 
knock spell, or a bend bars/lift gates roll. When freed, 
the ettin hightails it away from the tomb and doesn't 
look back. There is a chance that the other ettin might 
notice it leaving; see area 5 for details. Bargaining 
with the ettin is no easy matter, however. Ettins have 
no language of their own; they speak only a limited 
dialect of orcish. Characters who speak orcish can 
understand about half what the ettin says. A tongues 
spell makes communication much easier. 

If attacked, the ettin fights to the death, shouting 
loudly the whole time. When crouching behind the 
rubble and ruined doors, it has 25% cover. If attacked 
with spells or missiles, it responds by hurling huge 
spears at the party. If the PCs back out of range, the 
ettin retreats down the hall, hooting a warning with 
both heads. 

The passage leading north from here is dimly lit 
during daylight, but on moonlit nights the north end 
is heavily shadowed. 

Alert: Unless the party deals with the ettin quickly 
and quietly, trouble results. While none of the inhabi 
tants care particularly for their guard, they take action 
should they hear shouting and the sounds of melee. 
The ettin in area 5 awakens, and the ogre bathing in 


area 6 runs downstairs and raises a general hue and 
cry. The ores in areas 9 and 11 also notice any clamor, 
warn their brethren in the neighboring areas, and 
form up a defensive position. Within a short time, all 
of the raiders are alert and responding; Osakay orga 
nizes the troops to counterattack. 

Ettin (Giant, Ettin): AC 0/2 (collection of looted 
armor); MV 12 or 3 (severely encumbered); HD 10; 
hp 45; THACO 10; #AT 2 or 1; Dmg 3d6/2d8 
(club/club) or 2d6 (huge spear); SA can attack with 
two weapons at no penalty; SD +2 to surprise rolls; 
SZ H (13' tall); ML elite (14); Int Low (7); AL CE; XP 
3,000; MM/135. 

Notes: The ettin on guard duty wears a hauberk 
made from several suits of plate mail and two 
shields. The shield attached to his front is a large 
shield +2. The ettin has an armor class of 0 from the 
front, and an armor of 2 on his rear and flanks. The 
ettin can hurl its huge spears 30 feet. When defend 
ing the entrance, the ettin has 25% cover, giving it a 
+2 bonus to armor class and saving throws. 

Personality: Pidgety, crabby. 

Special Equipment: large shield +2 (human sized), 
four huge spears. 

5. Ettin Den 

This chamber once served as a chapel for visitors. 
Looters have long since stripped it, and water seeping 
down from the cliff above has completed the destruc 
tion. A dais and a smashed altar on the west wall are 
the only clues to the room's original function. The 
chamber reeks terribly, but is fairly neat. It has plain 
stone walls and a well-scuffed floor made of green 
marble a shade lighter than the passage outside. 

The second ettin rests here while its companion 
stands guard. It, too, wears a ball and chain. It does 
not wear armor, just a filthy garment made from 
badly cured animal hides. This ettin spends most of 
its time fitfully snoozing, but it is awake and alert if 
warned about the PCs' approach. 

If it is asleep when the PCs arrive, any fighting in 
area 4 or the hallway beyond awakens it after ld4 
rounds. If the fight ends before the ettin awakens, it 
goes back to sleep. When it sees the PCs, it drops the 
ball and attacks. 

If the ettin is not awakened by fighting or its com 
panion's departure, it keeps right on snoozing. Its 
snore makes a throaty duet that the PCs can clearly 
hear from the hallway unless they are silenced. If the 





party attacks the sleeping ettin, surprise is automatic. 

if the PCs are clever, they can negotiate with this 
ettin, too. They'll have to do something to keep it 
from crying out when it awakens, such as gagging it. 
They'll also have to be very direct and immediately 
tell it they intend to let it go. The ettin is interested 
only in escaping, because it knows it will die if it 
can't kill the PCs. If the party threatens it, the ettin 
tries to raise the alarm and attack, even if the PCs 
have it at sword point. 

The secret door in the north wall of this room is 
activated by a stud in the altar. If the PCs don't press 
the stud, the door is effectively locked (see page 13). 
Finding the stud requires a successful search for 
secret doors on the altar. Elves cannot find it merely 
by passing within 10 feet, but they get the full benefit 
of their racial ability when searching. 

There is nothing else worthwhile in the chamber. 

Alert: Should anyone proceed downstairs through 
the secret door, refer immediately to area 18; the troll 
guard at that location reacts without delay. In any 
event, if the ettin here is the first to raise the alarm, 
the ogre in area 6 bolts downstairs, but instead 
takes a roundabout route to Osakay through areas 
9,10,14,15, and 18. It rouses the denizens of those 
locations as it passes them. Otherwise, the same effects 
described in area 4's Alert hold true. 

Ettin (Giant, Ettin): AC 3; MV 12 or 3 (severely 
encumbered); HD 10; hp 45; THACO 10; #AT 2 or 1; 
Dmg 3d6/2d8 (club/club); SA can attack with two 
weapons at no penalty; SD +2 to surprise rolls; SZ IT 
(13' tall); ML elite (14); Int Low (7); AL CE; XP 3,000; 
MM/135. 

6. Fountain Chamber 

This room once served as a place for visitors to 
meditate quietly. The stone benches on the north and 
south walls are contoured to give man-sized 
humanoids a comfortable seat. The current residents 
use the room for washing. 

When the PCs enter the complex, there is an ogre 
in here washing out a half dozen buckets and getting 
a bath in the process. The creature is not at all 
pleased with Osakay's insistence on neatness. Since 
the door is closed for privacy, and because it is 
absorbed in its task, the ogre is oblivious to anything 
going on in the hallway outside short of a shout from 
the ettin or a fireball blast. If it notices anything, it 
bolts across the hall and awakens the ettin in area 5, 


assuming that one is still sleeping. Then the ogre 
flees through the secret door, which closes behind it, 
and runs to area 19 to warn the naga. 

Alert: If the raiders have been alerted and had a lit 
tle time to prepare, the four ogres and two trolls from 
area 14 are stationed here with the door open to wel 
come any intruders (see area 14 for their statistics). 
One ogre keeps an eye on area 4 while the rest 
remain out of sight. If intruders enter the complex, 
one of the trolls dashes off to area 19 as described 
above, while the rest of the group tries to help the 
ettins hold the entrance. 

Ogre: AC 5; MV 9; HD 4+1; hp 27; THACO 17; #AT 
1 or 2; Dmg 1-10; SZ L (9'); ML Steady (11); Int Low 
(7); AL CE; XP 270; MM/272. 

Notes: Despite his steady morale, the weaponless ogre 
will make every effort to get away and warn others. 

7. Burial Chambers 

These rooms originally served as crypts for King 
Siryl's family. The doors are trapped; any attempt to 
pick a lock or force a door brings a 5-ton granite 
block crashing down in front of that door. 



This small alcove has a ceiling lower than the main 
passage. An ornate bronze door, newly polished, 
stands at the other end. Through the floor in the 
alcove has been scrubbed clean, you can see a net 
work of chips, scratches, and cracks near the walls. 

A find traps spell, successful find traps roll, or suc 
cessful use of the demihuman ability to detect 
stonework traps reveals the danger. A successful 
remove traps roll can jam the mechanism so the 
block does not fall; a failed remove traps roll triggers 
the trap. 

The ancient tomb robbers took a more direct 
approach; they wedged heavy wooden pilings under 
the blocks, then picked the locks and looted the 
chambers. Osakay bid its minions to reset the traps 
and remove the pilings; that is how the floors became 
damaged. If the PCs examine the doors, they notice 
that the locks have been picked once already, then 
relocked. 

If the PCs trigger the trap, any character in the 
alcove must attempt a saving throw vs. breath 
weapon. Success means the character escaped from 
the alcove before the block fell. Failure means the 
character is crushed beneath the incredible weight of 
the block, taking lOd'10 points of damage. A character 
so flattened needs the assistance of others to escape. 
There are, however, several ways the PCs can keep 
the blocks from falling. A feather fall spell will not 
work because the block is too heavy. The various wall 
spells would suffice. 

Any effort the party makes to get into these rooms, 
however, is mostly wasted. The crypts were stripped 
and looted long ago, and the current residents never 
enter them. They serve strictly as deathtraps for 
unwary invaders. 

Alert: Should any of these huge traps fall, the 
entire lair is alerted (unless the block was within the 
radius of a silence spell). Osakay musters its forces 
downstairs and counterattacks (see area 19). 

8. Smithy 

The raiders use this burial crypt as an armorer's 
shop and storage area. The door is trapped as 
described in area 7, but wooden pilings have been 
placed in the alcove to hold up the granite block. No 
one is in the smithy when the PCs arrive, but there's 
plenty to see. 


This small chamber might have been a crypt once. 
The walls are lined with two tiers of shelves that 
look just wide enough for coffins, but there are none 
here now. Instead, there is a big, flat rock with a pile 
of smoldering coals on one side. A tendril of smoke 
rises to the soot-blackened ceiling and escapes out a 
small vent. You imagine the place would be a sti 
fling pit when the fire is going full blast. A crude 
leather bellows and a pile of charcoal suggest that 
much bigger and hotter fires burn here at times. 

The shelves are crammed with neat piles of 
tools, weapons, and raw materials. A narrow crack 
in the room's northwest comer seems to lead to a 
larger chamber beyond. 

The rock is just a flat boulder the raiders dragged 
in to serve as a hearth and anvil. It bears the marks of 
many hard impacts upon its scarred surface. The 
tools are an odd assortment of implements stolen 
during raids and cobbled together on site, including 
a warhammer +1 that the ore smith has been using to 
hammer metal. The weapons include two more huge 
spears for the ettins, several dozen swords and axes, 
and a few bundles of arrows. Two dozen of the 
arrows are flight arrows +1, but the raiders don't 
know it. The materials mostly consist of odd chunks 
of metal the raiders have gathered. There are bits and 
pieces of bronze taken from the tomb's main doors 
and all sorts of broken weapons and ruined armor 
captured during raids. The hauberk the ettin in area 
4 wears was made here. 

The crack in the northwest corner is a result of nat 
ural deterioration. If the characters take a peek 
through the crack, they get a glimpse of area 9. If 
they have done anything noisy, such as sorting 
through the pile of metal, they might just see an ore 
peering back at them (see area 9). The crack is about 
3 inches wide and 9 feet tall. A character standing on 
either side of the crack could fire a bow or crossbow, 
or cast spells through it. 

If the PCs listen carefully, they can hear the ores in 
area 9 conversing. If the party hasn't been detected, 
the ores are discussing everyday matters, including 
obeying Osakay's order to keep the place neat: 

There seems to be a number of creatures in the 
chambers beyond. You can hear raspy snoring and 
all manner of thumping and swishing. It seems 
that a mild argument is going on. 


16 








If the listener speaks orcish, he can listen in: 


Nic;ht Raiders 



If the ores know the PCs are coming, they are fairly 
quiet, but the PCs might hear one of them muttering 
about who's going to clean up the mess afterwards. 

Alert: Even if unwarned, the ores in area 9 notice if 
the party does anything especially noisy (searching 
through the weapons, etc.) and have a 25% chance 
per round to notice any activity in the area. See the 
description of area 9 for their reactions. 


9. West Ore Barracks 


The raiders have opened up and enlarged this nat 
ural chamber; 18 ores live here, though there are 
never more than 10 here at any given time (two are 
on sentry duty outside, two more guard area 9a, and 
four are patrolling or raiding). 

The chamber is crowded, but extremely neat and 
tidy for a den of ores. There are 18 canvas mattresses 
stuffed with dry grass and leaves and 18 large leather 
sacks that contain the ores' possessions. Among the 
sacks, the party can find assorted tools, eating uten 
sils, and clothing (all remarkably clean for ores' 
belongings), 268 gp, 477 sp, and ten 25 gp gems. 

The cooking fire sheds some dim light in the room. 
In addition, there are several smoke torches set here 
and there. Although they shed little in the way of 
light, they do allow the ores to light their oil flasks 
quickly. 

If no alarm has been given, half the ores are asleep, 
and the rest are awake and going about everyday 
tasks, such as cooking or tending their equipment. 
The ores sleep unarmored. 

If the raiders have been alerted, all of the ores are 
awake and ready for a fight. One ore keeps an eye on 
area 8 through the crack, another watches the stair 
cases to the east, and a third ore stands near the stair 
cases and observes area 4. They automatically notice 
any disturbance in these areas under their view 
(areas 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 10). 

Whenever they note something amiss, six ores grab 
long bows and spears from the weapon rack and 
march into the corridor just south of the stairs. They 
form two ranks of three across, facing either south or 


east, depending on where the threat is. The first rank 
carries bows and spears, and the second rank carries 
spears only. The archers fire their long bows at any 
target they can see, but they won't fire into a melee 
unless only ettins are involved. If the archers are 
attacked, the spearmen in the rear rank attack while 
the archers fall back and pick up spears. The rearmed 
ores, now in the back rank, can stab with their spears, 
but at a -2 attack penalty. While the spear hedge is 
forming, one of the ores flees down one of the stair 
cases, hoping to lure a PC into one of the slide traps 
(sec area 10). An ore from area 11 deactivates the 
slide traps momentarily for the running ore. Should 
their situation become desperate, the ores will send 
one unlucky one of their number to open the pits (see 
area 10) to cover while the survivors retreat down 
stairs. 

While tire ranks of archers and spearmen are 
beginning to form, someone signals the guards at 
area 9a. The remaining ores don their armor and 
keep watch on the corridor. They remain in the room 
until ordered to leave or until they can hit the PCs 
from the rear. 

Alert: The guards at location 9a can witness events 
in this chamber, and react immediately (see area 9a). 
Meanwhile, the ores in area 11 have a 25% cumula 
tive chance per round to notice any disturbance here, 
and prepare for the PC's approach. 

Ores (10): AC 6 (studded leather & shield) or 9 
(shield); MV 9 (moderate encumbrance) or 12 (no 
encumbrance); HD 1; hp 6 each; THAC0 19; #AT 1 or 
2; Dmg ld6 or ld8 (spear or battle axe) or Id8/ld8 
(long bow and sheaf arrow); SZ M (6' tall); ML steady 
(12); Int average (8); AL LE; XP 15 each; MM/281. 

Special Equipment: Two flasks of oil aiad 20 sheaf 
arrows each. 

9a. Guardpost 

The ladder here leads down to area 17. At a signal 
from area 9, one guard descends the ladder and runs 
to area 19 to warn Osakay of trouble. The ore does 
not use the subterranean passage connecting areas 17 
and 19, but goes through areas 16,14,15, and 18, 
alerting the residents in those locations. The second 
guard remains at the top of the ladder. If enemies 
appear, the ore hurls a flask of flaming oil (lit from a 
candle kept burning in the niche in the wall), then 
scrambles down the ladder and tries to yank it down 
after him. 


Ores (2): AC 6 (studded leather & shield); MV 9 
(moderate encumbrance); HD 1; hp 6 each; THACO 
19; #AT 1 or 2; Dmg ld8 (battle axe) or Id8/ld8 (long 
bow and sheaf arrow); SZ M (6' tall); ML steady (12); 
Int average (8); AL LE; XP 15 each; MM/281. 

Special Equipment: Two flasks of oil and 20 sheaf 
arrows each. 

10. Ups and Downs 

A set of three levers here operates the two covered 
pit traps (10a) and the two stair/slide traps (10b). 

The levers allowed the tomb's custodians (long since 
departed) to deactivate the slides so that visitors 
could enter the lower lever without using the secret 
doors in areas 5 and 11. Tactical Map D3 shows the 
area, but the pit traps (see below) are not shown; the 
DM can use the tactical map to determine exactly 
where characters are standing when the PCs begin 
fiddling with the levers and reveal the pit traps only 
when the PCs (or the ores) activate them. 

The levers have three settings: up, down, and neu 
tral. The levers are in the neutral position when the 
PCs find them and automatically return to neutral if 
moved. The levers are stiff; characters who try to 
move them with the end of the stick or weapon fail. 
They can be moved with telekinesis or an unseen ser 
vant. Mpving the left and right levers up at the same 
time activates the stair/slides if they are deactivated 
or deactivates them if activated. (When the PCs 
arrive,-jA(r)lides are activated.) Moving any other 
levefS# combination of levers in any direction opens 
the covers on both pits. 

When a pit opens, anyone standing on the cover 
falls 20 feet onto a bed of spikes. Osakay and its min 
ions have replaced the old corroded spikes with nice, 
sharp new ones and tipped them with type D poison. 
Characters falling into the pits suffer 2d6 points of 
damage from the fall and 5d6 points of damage from 
the spikes. A successful saving throw vs. breath 
weapons reduces spike damage to 2d6 points. Any 
characters hitting the spikes must attempt a save vs. 
poison. Those who fail their saving throws suffer 30 
points of additional damage; those who succeed still 
suffer 2d6 points of damage. In both cases, the onset 
time is ld2 rounds. The pits' covers close immedi 
ately after opening, trapping anyone who has fallen 
inside the pit. The only way to open the covers is to 
use the levers or a knock spell. Even if opened with a 
spell, the covers close immediately after opening, 
though they can be wedged open with iron spikes. (If 


the party has no spikes, there are several dozen bits 
of metal in area 8 that will suffice.) If the PCs try to 
wedge open a pit cover, there is only a one in six 
chance of the spike falling out. 

It is possible to climb out of the pits, but they have 
smooth, inward-sloping walls that impose a -40% 
penalty to climb wall attempts. Anyone climbing a 
pit' s walls when the cover opens must save vs. 
breath weapon or fall back to the bottom of the pit, 
suffering more damage. 

If the slides are activated, the lower flights of stairs 
collapse into slippery ramps when more than 60 
pounds of weight is placed on them. Characters slide 
10 feet down the ramps and fall into the small pits at 
the bases of the stairs on the lower level (10c). These 
pits are similar to the larger pits on the upper level, 
but characters falling in from the tops of the slides 
suffer 3d6 points of damage, plus damage from the 
poison spikes as noted above. Note that characters 
trying to climb the stairs also fall into the pits, but 
suffer only 2d6 points of falling damage. 

Alert: Any activity in this area is noticed by the ores 
in areas 9 and 11, who in turn notify their comrades in 
areas 9a and 12 respectively. If anyone slides down 
stairs (by choice or no), they are subject to immediate 
attack from the creatures downstairs (see area 14). 

11. East Ore Barracks 

Once upon a time this chamber served as the rest 
ing place of King Siryl's court wizard, Mitcou. The 
tomb was plundered long ago, but Mitcou's sarcoph 
agus is still mostly intact. Currently, 24 ores reside 
here, but two of them are on sentry duty outside and 
four more are patrolling or raiding, leaving only 18 
ores here at any given time. The ores here have the 
same living arrangements and daily routine as the 
ones in area 9. Tactical Map D4 shows the chamber. 

A cooking fire and an assortment of small torches 
shed dim light. There are 24 mattresses and 24 bags 
of gear. The bags hold in sum 271 gp, 486 sp, and 
thirteen 25 gp gems. 

If the raiders were not warned about the PCs, half 
the ores here are unarmored and asleep, and the 
remainder are keeping busy with normal tasks. They 
have a 25% cumulative chance per round to notice 
any disturbance in areas 9 or 12; they tend to keep an 
eye on the neighbors. 

If forewarned, all the ores are awake, keeping a con 
stant watch on areas 9 and 10. They also post two 
guards in the passage leading to area 12; these guards 





Raiders 



signal the ores in area 12 to be ready for trouble. 

Whenever they notice a disturbance, 10 of the 
remaining ores form a double, close-order rank (one 
rank in front of and one on the dais); they face either 
south or west, depending on the threat's origin. The 
extra height from the dais allows both ranks to fire 
their bows. The remaining ores line up along the 
south wall, ready to attack their foes from the flank 
or rear if they enter the room. 

If the threat is from the west, the ores send one of 
their number to man the levers at area 10. If one of the 
ores from area 9 flees down the stairs, this ore quickly 
deactivates the slides, then reactivates them again. 

Ores (18): AC 6 (studded leather & shield) or 9 
(shield); MV 9 (moderate encumbrance) or 12 (no 
encumbrance; HD 1; hp 6 each; THACO 19; #AT 1 or 
2; Dmg ld6 or ld8 (spear or battle axe) or Id8/ld8 
(long bow and sheaf arrow); SZ M (6' tall); ML steady 
(12); Int average (8); AL LE; XP 15 each; MM/281. 

Special Equipment: Two flasks of oil and 20 sheaf 
arrows each. 

The secret door in the northeast corner is similar to 
the secret door in area 5. A panel in the base of the 
sarcophagus (on the east side) opens it when pressed. 

Oddly, the empty sarcophagus has more to offer the 
party than the trigger to the secret door. The stories of 
Mitcou's most important services to the king are 
engraved on the surface. Tales describe what advice 
Mitcou gave Siryl at important moments during his 
reign and give brief descriptions of the various magi 
cal devices the wizard created or identified for the 
king. The inscriptions include both pictures and writ 
ing. The language is the same one used on the tablet 
above the entrance. If a PC rogue successfully read 
that inscription, he automatically can read the ones 
here. Otherwise, the character gets another chance for 
a successful roll here. The tale that is most interesting 
to the PCs describes the first segment of the Rod. It 
reads: "... and Mitcou said unto the King, 'Sire, take 
this wand made from the legacy of the vaati, for it can 
heal minor wounds. Whenever thou art wounded, 
simply grasp this ebony stick and think the word 
"ruat" and thy wounds shall diminish.'" This inscrip 
tion gives both the description of the wand (an ebony 
stick) and its command word (ruat). The picture 
accompanying this inscription shows a female wizard 
presenting a wand to an armored man. 

It takes a character two turns to read all the 
inscriptions. It takes at least an hour to copy them all 


down. If the characters have enough paper they can 
take rubbings from the sarcophagus and get copies of 
all the inscriptions in about five minutes. 

Alert: The ores in areas 9 and 12 have a 25% chance 
per round to notice any disturbance here. 

12. South Ore Barracks 

The raiders have tunneled their way into this nat 
ural chamber, widening a crack once in the south wall 
of area 11. They draw their water from the pool in 
here, and the room serves as a guardpost. Twelve ores 
live here permanently, although there are never more 
than eight here at any given time (two are on sentry 
duty outside and two are patrolling or raiding). 

This chamber has the same general appearance as 
areas 9 and 11, crowded, but very tidy for a place 
where ores dwell. In the room are a cooking fire, sev 
eral small torches, 12 canvas mattresses stuffed with 
dry grass and leaves, and 12 large leather sacks that 
contain the ores' possessions. Among the sacks, the 
party can find assorted tools, eating utensils, and 
clothing (all remarkably clean for ores' belongings), 
plus 260 gp, 465 sp, and seven 25 gp gems. 

The raiders have also erected a timber wall with a 
sturdy door at the head of the natural staircase to the 
north. The door keeps the carrion crawlers in area 13 
from entering the complex. It is kept barred at all times 
and has a hatch about 3 inches square at eye level so 
the ores can peek at the stairs without opening it. 

If the raiders have been alerted, all the ores in here 
are awake and ready for a fight. One ore keeps an 
eye on the stairs through the hatch while the others 
line up along the southeast wall, with bows and axes 
at the ready. 

If not on alert, half the ores are asleep; the remain 
der are awake and engaged in mundane tasks. One 
ore takes a peek though the hatch every ten minutes. 
The ores notice any attempt to force the door and 
immediately signal the ores in area 11. The ores in 
area 11 then send a runner to area 9, and the ores 
there send one of their number to area 19 to warn 
Osakay. 

The pool in this room is about one foot deep. The 
water is cold, but not deep enough to hinder move 
ment. The pool's bottom, however, is uneven, with 
lots of ridges and potholes. Characters moving 
through the pool at more than half speed or fighting 
while standing in the pool must attempt a Dexterity 
check every round or trip and fall. The ores are famil 
iar enough with the water's bottom to be unaffected. 



Nivht Raiders 


Alert: The ores in area 11 have a 25% cumulative 
chance to notice any disturbance here. 

Ores (8): AC 6 (studded leather & shield) or 9 
(shield); MV 9 (moderate encumbrance) or 12 (no 
encumbrance; HD 1; hp 6 each; THACO 19; #AT 1 or 
2; Dmg ld8 (battle axe) or Id8/ld8 (long bow and 
sheaf arrow); SZ M (6' tall); ML steady (12); Int aver 
age (8); AL LE; XP 15 each; MM/281. 

Special Equipment: Two flasks of oil and 20 sheaf 
arrows each. 

13. Carrion Crawler Lair 

Three carrion crawlers have taken up residence 
here, feasting on the refuse the raiders throw away 
and serving as unwitting guards for the lair's sec 
ondary entrance. The creatures tend to lie quietly in 
this chamber during daylight and venture out onto 
the midden (location 2) at night. They attack any 
creature they detect, day or night. 

In the weeks before the door leading to area 12 was 
erected, the raiders kept the carrion crawlers out of 
the complex by hurling their organic trash down the 


natural stairs connecting this area with area 12. The 
upper part of the stairs is still littered with bones and 
globs of rancid grease. Characters walking on the 
stairs must attempt Dexterity checks or slip and fall, 
suffering ld6 points of damage. The carrion crawlers 
eagerly investigate the noises a falling character 
makes. The stairs rise 30 feet from their base in this 
area to their head near area 12. 

Carrion Crawlers (3): AC 3/7; MV 12; HD 3+1; hp 
16 each; THACO 17; #AT 8 or 1; Dmg none (tentacle) 
(8) or ld2 (bite); SA paralyzation; SZ L (9' long); ML 
special; Int non (0); AL N; XP 420 each; MM/35. 

Notes: Tentacle hit causes victim to save vs. paralyza 
tion or be paralyzed for 2d6 turns. Head is armor class 
3; body is armor class 7. Will not retreat from combat. 

The Lower Level 

14. Common Chamber 

This room originally served as a kind of museum 
dedicated to King Siryl's life. Looters hauled away 
the fine furnishings and sculptures a long time ago. 
































Night Raiders 


Currently, the chamber serves as a lounge for the 
trolls and ogres. Osakay also uses it as a training area 
to teach the trolls and ogres the rudiments of tactics 
and the use of missile weapons. 

This vast hall is as bright as day. The light seems to 
be emerging from eight iron cressets mounted in the 
north and south walls. The air is damp, but the cres 
sets are even more badly corroded than one would 
expect, Oddly, all the rust has been scoured away, 
leaving the metal shiny, but heavily pitted. Two 
racks filled with carefully maintained weapons 
stand along the east and west wails, A man-sized 
scarecrow, badly punctured and slashed, stands just 
south of the weapon rack on the east wall. 

The scarecrow' is a practice target the ogres and 
trolls employ to hone their dagger throwing and 
archery skills. The ogres and trolls aren't great 
marksmen, but they hit their target often enough to 
keep the dummy looking battered. 

The cressets hold continual light spells. Their 
decayed but polished condition is due to the corrosive 
effects of centuries of exposure to damp air and to the 
continual light spells, w'hich slowly consume objects 
upon which they are cast. Nevertheless, Osakay has 
ordered its minions to keep the place tidy, so the dete 
riorating cressets are now well polished. 

The two cressets on the west side of the north wall 
are actually levers that operate the slide traps (10b). 
Their function is similar to the levers in area 10. Mov 
ing both levers up activates or deactivates the slides. 
Moving either lever singly or moving both levers 
down opens the covered pit below the levers. This 
pit is identical to those in area 10a. 

At the moment, there are two trolls lounging in 
thi s room, along with four ogres. They are recounting 
w'ith relish the glories of their last raid, sometimes 
illustrating their exploits on the scarecrow. The idlers 
tend to ignore anything that is not an obvious attack 
or a direct order from Osakay. For example, they can 
hear the commotion if a fight breaks out near area 10, 
but they don't take any action wdthout orders. Even 
if the ores upstairs raise the alarm, they do nothing 
other than waking their sleeping companions in 
areas 15 and 17 until they are attacked or receive 
orders from Osakay. 

They gleefully spring into action if anyone falls 
down one of the slides, however, and they attack 
anyone trying to escape the pits or rescue comrades 


from the pits. They go to area 19 for help only if one 
of their number is killed. 

If the raiders became aw'are of the party's 
approach prior to their entrance, these idlers have 
been ordered upstairs (see area 6), and this area will 
be empty of occupants. 

Alert: Assuming that by now the entire lair has not 
been aroused or marshaled by Osakay, any loud dis 
turbances in this area (combat, screams, etc.) awaken 
the trolls sleeping in location 15, w'ho join any melee 
here after two rounds. The ogres from area 17 join in 
after three rounds. 

Trolls (2): AC 4; MV 12; HD 6+6; hp 36 each; 
THACO 13; #AT 3 or 2; Dmg ld4+4/ld4+4/ld8+4 
(claw/claw/bite) or ld4+8/ld4+8 (thrown daggers + 
Strength bonus; SD regeneration; SW slashing 
weapons can sever limbs, fire or acid prevents regen 
eration; SZ L (9' tall); ML elite (14); Int low' (7); AL 
CE; XP 1,400 each; MM/349. 

Notes: Any edged weapon can sever a troll's limb 
on a roll of a natural 20. Severed limbs continue to 
fight. A troll regenerates 3 hit points a round, starting 
the third round after damage is inflicted. A troll can 
not regenerate damage inflicted by fire or acid. 

Special Equipment: Six daggers each. 

Ogres (4): AC 4 (chain mail); MV 6 (moderate 
encumbrance); HD 4+1; hp 22, 20,19,19; THACO 17 
(15 w'ith Strength bonus); #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 2d4+6 
(bardiche + Strength bonus) or ld8+6/ld8+6 (com 
posite long bow ; arid sheaf arrow' + Strength bonus); 
SZ L (9'+); ML Steady (11); int Low (7); AL CE; XP 
270 each; MM/272. 

Special Equipment: One flask of oil and 20 sheaf 
arrow's each. 

15. Troll Lairs 

At one time, these small rooms w'ere crypts much 
like the ones described in area 7, including the fa llin g 
block traps. Looters bypassed the traps long ago and 
stripped all the crypts. The raiders have placed new 
w'ooden pilings under the blocks, as in area 8, and 
the resident trolls now' use the rooms as sleeping 
chambers. Eight trolls live in the complex, but only 
five of them are near their lairs at any given time. 

Tw'o currently lounge in area 14, three more are on 
duty elsewhere in the complex or out raiding, and 
the remainder are sleeping in their rooms. 

Tf sleeping, the trolls ignore noises in the complex. 





but they hastily awaken if roused by their comrades 
or if fighting breaks out in area 14. they will join any 
fray in area 14 within two rounds. 

Each room contains a quantity of twigs and dry- 
grass, all neatly arranged, and two big leather sacks. 
The sacks contain the trolls' belongings, mostly favor 
ite chewing bones and other trinkets of value only to 
trolls. Together, the eight sacks contain 1,007 gp, three 
50 gp gems, two 100 gp gems, and four 250 gp gems. 

Trolls (3): AC 4; MV 12; HD 6+6; hp 36 each; 
THAC0 13; #AT 3 or 2; Dmg ld4+4/ld4+4/ld8+4 
(claw/claw/bite) or ld4+8/ld4+8 (thrown daggers + 
Strength bonus; SD regeneration; SW slashing 
weapons can sever limbs, fire or acid prevents regen 
eration; SZ L (9' tall); ML elite (14); Int low (7); AL 
CE; XP 1,400 each; MM/349. 

Notes: Any edged weapon can sever a troll's limb 
on a roll of a natural 20. Severed limbs continue to 
fight. A troll regenerates 3 hit points a round, starting 
the third round after damage is inflicted. A troll can 
not regenerate damage inflicted by fire or acid. 

Special Equipment: Six daggers each. 

16. False Tomb 

Light from the north illuminates a wide corridor 
leading south into a small room. There, an elabo 
rate sarcophagus lies upon a dais at the south wall. 

On the walls of the corridor, light is pouring out 
of two glass panels, creating the impression of a 
once grandiose shrine. The panel at the left depicts 
a man in plate mail kneeling at an altar, and on the 
right an armored figure stands at attention. 

A closer look at the sarcophagus reveals elabo 
rate carvings and some sort of inscription. In the 
room's east end, you can see two large mounds of 
charred wood, evidently the remains of fires. The 
east wall of the chamber is blacked with soot, as it 
the dais, but the sarcophagus is unblemished 
except for a few scratches on the front and a few 
chips on the lid. It seems that someone tried to pry 
it open once, or perhaps more than once. 

The inscription on the sarcophagus reads: "Siryl 
Rex, Conqueror and Statesman," the same inscription 
found over the main entrance. The sarcophagus 
holds a coffin, but it is empty arid always has been 
so. The empty monument was intended to distract 
looters. The deception failed, and looters located the 


main tomb (in area 22) and looted it long before now. 

Several groups of looters have tried to open the 
empty sarcophagus. When they did, they discovered 
to their dismay that it was guarded. The stained glass 
panels lining the passage leading to this chamber are 
glass golems. Globes enchanted with continual light 
spells behind the glass panels provide backlighting. 
The golems activate whenever they or the sarcopha 
gus are disturbed, forcing a surprise check with a +3 
penalty. They attack until all their enemies are slain 
or have fled the lower level. 

The raiders have learned to leave the sarcophagus 
alone. Osakav has discerned that there is no body 
inside, and assumes (correctly) that there is no trea 
sure, either. 

The piles of charred wood are the remains of fires. 
The ogres from area 17 do their cooking here. Their 
chamber is too crowded to allow for proper cooking 
fires, and the trolls object if the ogres try to light fires 
in area 14. 

Golem, Glass (2): AC 4; MV 12; HD 9; hp 40 each; 
TIIAC0 11; #AT 1; Dmg 2d 12; SA surprise at -3, pris 
matic spray, SD harmed only by +2 or better magical 
weapons, immune to poison and mind-affecting 
magic, regeneration; SW blunt weapons inflict dou 
ble damage, shatter spell; SZ M (6' tall); ML fearless 
(20); Int non (0); AL N; XP 5000 each; MM/169. 

Notes: Once every three rounds, can unleash a pris 
matic spray that fans out in all directions with a 25- 
foot range. Regenerates 1 hit point per round while 
in bright light (or within the area of effect of their 
continual light spells). 

A shatter spell weakens the golem. All subsequent 
attacks have a percentage chance equal to twice the 
damage inflicted of instantly slaying the golem. 

17. Ogre Lair 

This living chamber is similar to areas 9 and 12, 
except that it isn't quite as neat, and the mattresses 
are larger and much dirtier. Fourteen ogres live here, 
but four arc always out patrolling or raiding, and one 
is always busy with an odd job somewhere in the 
complex (such as washing in area 6). Another four 
are killing time in area 14. The remaining ogres are 
here, dozing, eating, or doing odd tasks. Half of them 
are asleep, but they remain clad in their chain mail. 

Like everyone else living here (except Osakay), the 
ogres keep their belongings in leather sacks. The 14 
sacks in this room contain a total of 807 gp, 1,411 sp. 






Ni^ht Raiders 


and twenty-three 50 gp gems. When an ogre leaves 
this room, it throws its sack down the sinkhole in the 
south end, hoping that it will be harder to find if ene 
mies break in. 

The sinkhole is about 10 feet wide and 20 feet 
deep. The ogres climb into and out of it easily due to 
their bulk, but man-sized and smaller creatures have 
to climb the smooth rock face or use a rope. A subter 
ranean passage at the bottom of the sinkhole leads 
northwest to area 19. 

Ogres (5): AC 4 (chain mail); MV 6 (moderate 
encumbrance); HD 4+1; hp 22, 20, 19, 19; THACO 17 
(15 with Strength bonus); #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 2d4+6 
(bardiche + Strength bonus) or ld8+6/ld8+6 (com 
posite long box and sheaf arrow + Strength bonus); 
SZ L (9'+); ML Steady (11); Int Low (7); AL CE; XP 
270 each; MM/272. 

Special Equipment: One flask of oil and 20 sheaf 
arrows each. 

18. West Lower Guardpost 

A troll is always on guard here, very alert because 
Osakay's chamber lies behind the north door. The 
trolls aren't particularly loyal, but they fear the naga 
and its fire magic. 

The troll automatically notices if the secret door at 
the top of the stairs opens. However, if the raiders 
have had no advance warning of the PCs' approach 
and the troll does not hear or see anyone come 
through (either because nobody does come through 
or whoever does is invisible and very quiet or silent), 
there is a 50% chance that the troll does nothing. Oth 
erwise, it quietly opens the north door, warns 
Osakay, and prepares to hurl its daggers at the first 
opponent it senses. If its suspicions are aroused, the 
troll can attempt a saving throw to detect any invisi 
ble opponents nearby (see the description for the 
invisibility spell in the PHB), with +4 bonus due to its 
superior sense of smell. The troll fights to the death. 

If the lair has had advance warning of the PCs 
approach (from fleeing raiders, etc.), the door to 
Osakay's chamber (area 19) will be ajar, and the naga 
will be ready for trouble. 

Troll: AC 4; MV 12; HD 6+6; hp 36 each; THACO 
13; #AT 3 or 2; Dmg ld4+4/ld4+4/ld8+4 or 
ld4+8/ld4+8 (thrown daggers + Strength bonus); SD 
regeneration; SW slashing weapons can sever limbs, 
fire or acid prevents regeneration; SZ L (9' tall); ML 


elite (14); Int low (7); AL CE; XP 1,400 each; MM/349. 

Notes: Any edged weapon can sever a troll's limb 
on a roll of a natural 20. Severed limbs continue to 
fight. A troll regenerates 3 hit points a round, starting 
the third round after damage is inflicted. A troll can 
not regenerate damage inflicted by fire or acid. 

Special Equipment: Six daggers. 

19. Naga Lair 

This chamber originally served as a bedchamber 
for the priest who tended the chapel (area 5). Due to 
a cleverly designed ventilation system, there is a 
fresh, gentle breeze through here that feels cool in 
summer and warm in winter. Over the years, the 
shaft that brought the breeze into the room collapsed, 
forming the sinkhole and subterranean passage that 
lead to area 17. The breeze still blows, however. 

The levers on the east wall operate the water trap in 
area 22. The levers cannot deactivate the trap, but they 
can trigger it remotely. Moving either lever up floods 
area 22. Moving either lever down or moving the 
levers in opposite directions opens the pit trap below 
the levers. Moving both levers down simultaneously 
opens the metal shutters in areas 20, 21, and 22, but 
does not stop the water if area 22 is flooding. 

The pit is just like the ones in area 10a; Osakay's 
long body allows it to operate these levers and those 
in areas 10a and 14 without fear of falling into the pits. 

Osakay lurks in this area most of the time, curled up 
on a huge feather bed its raiders brought back from a 
settler's cabin. It seldom leaves the room for long. 

If Osakay has advance warning of the PCs' 
approach, it makes sure its minions are awake and 
ready for a fight. The ores upstairs know enough to 
insure that the naga is made aware, but most of the 
larger creatures are more willing to fight and forget 
the consequences. If, however, the PCs pursue a flee 
ing troll or ogre back to the lair, this act of stupidity 
(leading enemies directly to its lair) infuriates the 
naga, and the informant is unceremoniously dumped 
into the pit and left to die. 

When the naga learns that the PCs have entered the 
lair, it tries to arrange a counterattack on the party. It 
gathers the ogres and trolls from areas 15 and 17 into 
area 14, along with any ores that have survived the 
party's initial assault. Then it casts a haste spell on 
itself and five of the trolls and tries to catch the PCs in 
a pincer movement. For example, if the PCs are fight 
ing near area 10, Osakay sends the hasted trolls up 
through area 5 and down the main corridor toward 





Night Raiders 


the fray. Meanwhile, it deactivates the slide traps and 
sends four ogres up both staircases leading out of 
area 14. It then sends the remaining trolls and ogres 
through area 20 and up the stairs leading to area 11, 
where they can charge into the fray. The intention is 
to hit the PCs from all sides at once. If it can't gather 
its forces in area 14, Osakay calls them to area 18 
instead. If necessary, it uses its hold portal spell to bot 
tle up the PCs until the attack is prepared. 

After dispatching the troops, Osakay casts shield 
and fly on itself and joins the hasted trolls. When 
attacking, the naga avoids melee, casting one spell 
each round. The haste spell allows a second action. If 
trolls are still alive, it spits out a bead of force as its sec 
ond action. If the PCs torch the troll, Osakay switches 
to its fire breath potions. 

The naga carries its magical items, including the Rod 
segment, in a baglike internal organ. When it needs an 
item, it expels it into its mouth and then either spits it 
out or activates it. Osakay carries its potions in thin 
bladders; when it wants to drink one, it expels the 
bladder into its mouth, then bites down on it. 

If the PCs kill the naga and cut it open, they find 
the first part of the Rod inside, along with any other 
magical items that Osakay has not expended. When 
running the battle with Osakay, be sure to describe 
the naga's strange way of using magical items, 
because this is an important clue about where the 
party has to look for the Rod. If badly damaged 
(reduced to 15 hit points or less), Osakay tries to 
withdraw and use the Rod's cure light wounds power. 

If the naga escapes, it lurks in the tomb, hoping to 
catch the PCs in area 22 and flood it. 

Osakay (Naga, Dark): AC 6; MV 13; HD 9; hp 46; 
THACO 11; #AT 2; Dmg Id4/2d4 (bite/sting); SA poi 
son, ESP; SD immune to acid and poison, +2 saving 
throw bonus vs. enchantment/charm spells, immune to 
ESP and all other forms of mind probing, casts spells as 
a 6th-level wizard; SZ L (12' long); ML champion (15); 

Int exceptional (16); AL LE; XP 4,000; MM/267. 

Notes: Can bite and sting the same opponent or 
two different opponents. Sting causes a save vs. poi 
son or suffer ld2 points of additional damage and a 
drugged sleep lasting 2d4 rounds (onset time 1 
round). ESP power can be used at will and has an 
80-foot range. Can sting and cast a spell simul 
taneously. Divination effects cannot detect items it 
carries internally. 

Personality: Manipulative, greedy. 

Spells (4/2/2): 1st- hold portal, magic missile (x2). 


shield; 2nd- stinking cloud, web; 3rd- fly, haste. 

Special Equipment: 2 potions of extra-healing, 3 potions 
of fire breath, 5 small beads of force, first segment of the 
Rod of Seven Parts. 

DM Note: Osakay's small beads of force explode in 
a 5-foot radius, not the standard 10-foot radius. The 
blast inflicts the standard 5d4 points of damage and 
requires creatures within the radius to attempt sav 
ing throws vs. spells or be encapsulated in a bubble 
of force that is identical to a wall of force spell except 
that its duration is 3d4 rounds. Once formed, the 
force bubbles cannot be moved, although can they be 
destroyed in the same manner as a umll of force can. 
Creatures of size huge or greater cannot be trapped 
in a force bubble; they prevent the bubble from form 
ing, but the blast still occurs. 

When used in a 10-foot corridor, a force bubble 
blocks most of the space, but leaves about a 2-foot 
gap at the corners. Tiny and small creatures can wig 
gle through the gap, and enterprising PCs can fire 
missiles or spells through them. The 10-foot corridors 
in the tomb are 20 feet high, leaving a substantial gap 
above the bubble. 

In a 5-foot corridor, a bubble completely fills the 
passage. Its outer surface conforms to the passage's 
walls, leaving no gaps. Osakay is loath to use its 
beads of force in such narrow spaces unless it is trying 
to escape from the PCs. Should escape be the better 
part of valor (if, for example, the party has managed 
to move through the entire ruins with stealth), 

Osakay will attempt to trap the party between two 
force walls and make good its exit. 

20. East Lower Guardpost 

The doors leading into this room are locked. The 
room is lined with lead and iron sheeting that defeats 
passwall spells and all forms of scrying. 

One troll always is on guard here. If the PCs force 
the doors or pick the locks, the troll hears the activity 
and cannot be surprised. 

The south doorway is fitted with a pair of sliding 
bronze shutters, one on each side of the door. They 
slam down if the water trap in area 22 is triggered. 
Although the shutters are part of the water trap, a 
find traps spell won't reveal them because they are 
inactive until the PCs enter area 22. A true seeing 
spell, a successful search for secret doors, or a suc 
cessful check for sliding walls does spot them. Once 
down, the shutters cannot be opened with knock 
spells, though they can be lifted with a successful 







w 4 


Ni^ht Raiders 


bend bars/lift gates roll (one roll per shutter) or bat 
tered down as described on page 13. 

Troll: AC 4; MV 12; HD 6+6; hp 36 each; THACO 
13; #AT 3 or 2; Dmg ld4+4/ld4+4/ld8+4 or 
ld4+8/ld4+8 (thrown daggers + Strength bonus); SD 
regeneration; SW slashing weapons can sever limbs, 
fire or acid prevents regeneration; SZ L (9 7 tall); ML 
elite (14); Int low (7); AL CE; XP 1,400 each; MM/349. 

Notes: Any edged weapon can sever a troll's limb 
on a roll of a natural 20. Severed limbs continue to 
fight. A troll regenerates 3 hit points a round, starting 
the third round after damage is inflicted. A troll can 
not regenerate damage inflicted by fire or acid. 

Special Equipment: Six daggers. 

21. Antechamber 

The door leading out of this empty chamber has a 
pair of shutters identical to the ones in area 20. 

22. Treasure Room 

This chamber originally served as a splendid tomb 
for King Siryl. It isn't very impressive now. 

You peer into a spacious chamber with a vaulted 
ceiling at least 50 feet high. The air in here feels 
clammy and smells faintly of mold, but the room 
seems otherwise spotless. 

The walls are covered with white ceramic tiles, 
except in the northern section of the west wall, 
where the tiles have been stripped away from a 10- 
foot section. Additional layers of lead, brass, and 
steel have been peeled away to reveal bare stone. 

A dais on the far side of the chamber holds a mas 
sive sarcophagus covered with elaborate carvings 
and inscriptions. Its lid seems to be broken, but 
someone has put the two halves back into place. 

Four brightly lit stained glass windows line the 
north and south walls. Each depicts a knight rais 
ing a sword in salute. 

These stained panels look just like the glass golems 
in area 16, but are nonmagical. 

Osakay has placed the bulk of its treasure inside 
Siryl's sarcophagus. In appearance it is similar to the 
one in area 16, but more ornate. Ancient tomb rob 
bers broke the lid, but the raiders have put the pieces 
back in place. The sarcophagus holds 5,469 cp, 3,231 


sp, 6,237 gp, 10 base 100 gp gems, 1 base 5,000 gp 
gem (the ruby mentioned in the introductory sec 
tion), and a ring of sustenance. 

The shaded area on the map is a pressure plate that 
triggers the trap guarding this room. If any weight is 
placed on this area, the shutters in this room and in 
areas 20 and 21 slam shut. Immediately thereafter, this 
room and area 21 begin flooding, it takes five rounds 
lor the rooms to fill completely. Tire rooms remain full 
for about eight hours, then slowly empty over the next 
three days. Once the rooms flood, they cannot be 
flooded again for a month (it takes that long for the 
natural reservoir that supplies the trap to refill). 

Osakay uses a fly spell to avoid triggering the trap 
when handling the treasure. The PCs can use the 
same method. A successful remove traps roll can jam 
the pressure plate so the trap is not triggered, but roll 
1 cl6 each time a character steps on or crosses the 
plate. The trap is triggered anyway on a roll of a 1. 
Likewise, the shutters can be jammed open, but have 
the same chance to slam shut anyway. 

Even if the PCs avoid or disarm the pressure plate, 
there is a chance they could still be trapped in here. 
Osakay and all the ores know how 7 to trigger the trap 
from area 19 and will do so if they can catch the 
party inside this room. 

If the characters are trapped, they can escape by 
battering down the shutters (see page 13) or using a 
passwall or teleport spell to escape. The entire room is 
lined with metal, however, and the only place a pass- 
wall will work is the bare spot on the west wall. If the 
PCs escape this way, they emerge in area 16, and any 
glass golems present there will attack. 

Afterward 

If Osakay survives the PCs' foray into the tomb, the 
naga gathers up its surviving minions and finds 
another lair. The PCs find the tomb empty if they 
return. 1 he raids in this area stop, but the naga might 
resume a similar pattern of attacks after a year or two. 

Of course, the PCs cannot recover the Rod segment 
if Osakay escapes. See the troubleshooting section at 
the beginning of this chapter for suggestions. 

If Osakay is slain, the surviving ogres and trolls 
take over the tomb, possibly with a few ores as 
slaves. The ogres and trolls are neither smart enough 
nor organized enough to raid the area systematically, 
though they pose a continuing danger to the weak or 
unw'ary. 


Ranee Norve, a sometime adventurer, obtained the 
first segment of the Rod after his party overlooked it. 
Ranee is dimly aware of the Rod's true power. He is 
also highly conscious of its dangers and is not 
enthused about having it. 

Unfortunately for Ranee, the Queen of Chaos and 
her servants are already looking for the segment and, 
barring intervention by the PCs, Ranee is doomed to 
a violent death. Currently, Ranee is wasting his time 
and money gambling at the Golden Cockatrice, a fes 
thall described below. The Golden Cockatrice can be 
placed in any large city. It is best if the PCs come 
upon Ranee while engaged in some other activity. A 
few suggestions follow: 

• The party hears a tale about a saloon that features 
tailing cockatrices. 

• The party encounters a crier touting the many 
virtues of the Golden Cockatrice. After giving his 
speech, the crier approaches a PC and gives the char 
acter a wooden token that bears the words: "Good 
for a two-silver-piece Dragonfire wager at the Golden 
Cockatrice." 

• The party is hired to keep a lookout for cheaters at 
an establishment called the Golden Cockatrice. 

• The party stops to visit the ostentatious festhall 
while pursuing unrelated ventures. 

This short adventure is organized into two sec 
tions. The first part contains descriptions of the loca 
tions in and about the Golden Cockatrice. In the second 
half are details of events which challenge the PCs, 
including their initial entrance and the final conflict 
with the queen's minions. 

I Ik* C-'olden C 'oekatricr 

The Golden Cockatrice is a posh festhall that caters 
to adventurers, rakes, and other pleasure seekers 
with plenty of money to spend. The hall stands on a 
busy thoroughfare, and other businesses line the 
street. There is a cheap inn directly across the road to 
the north and a stable behind the festhall to the 
south. Map A1 shows the festhall and the surround 
ing neighborhood. 

Heavy traffic has packed the main street's red clay 
surface smooth and hard. The back streets surround 
ing the hall, however, are narrow and muddy. The 


twisting alleys are crammed with tenements and 
one-room hovels. The Golden Cockatrice, with its tiled 
roof and stately colonnade, is easily the most impres 
sive building on the block. 

The hall opens for business in the late afternoon 
and does not close until after dawn. 

1. Entrance 

A larger-than-life sized wooden statue of a cocka 
trice stands on a 3-foot pedestal in front of the main 
doors. When the PCs arrive, a big, yellow dog is sit 
ting at the base of the statue. It stands up and wags 
its tail when they approach. If the PCs pet it, the dog 
capers about gaily. The dog is actually a hound of 
law. The vaati have noticed the queen's interest in the 
festhall, and have set the hound here to keep an eye 
on things. 

The hound looks healthy, if a bit dirty. It refuses 
any handouts the PCs offer it. The PCs can speak 
with it using a speak with animals or tongues spell. If 
questioned, the hound pretends to be a mere dog. It 
claims to be sitting here because it likes to watch 
people come and go. It warns the PCs that the door 
man is mean, and smells funny, too. If the PCs realize 
the dog is more than it seems and challenge its dis 
guise, the hound admits that it has gotten a whiff of 
trouble brewing and is here to lend a hand if 
necessary. 

Hound of Law: AC -6 or 0 in dog form; MV FI 18 
(A) or 15 in dog form; HD 8+2; hp 41; THACO 13; 

#AT 0 or 1 in dog form; Dmg nil or 2d4+2 (bite) in 
dog form; SA -5 to opponents' surprise rolls, become 
astral, ethereal, or invisible at will, tracking, +1 attack 
roll bonus vs. chaotic creatures; SD +1 to own sur 
prise rolls, detect invisible creatures 50% of the time, 
chaotic creatures suffer -1 attack penalty and a -1 
penalty to each die of damage, spell immunity; MR 
30%; SZ T (1' tall) or M in dog form; ML fearless (19); 
Int average (10); AL LN; XP nil; See Book IV, page 3. 

Notes: Base tracking score is 16; ignores vision- 
based penalties. Can follow a creature that is flying 
or has teleported if it succeeds with a tracking roll at 
a -2 penalty (the only other penalties that apply are 
those from the trail's age). 

Immune to all spells except protection from evil, 
magic missile, and maze. 



2. Main Doors 

A pair of stout oak doors with amber-colored win 
dows usually stand open during business hours. A 
pair of burly attendants are always on hand to greet 
customers cheerfully and to keep undesirables from 
entering; they also serve as bouncers in the unlikely 
event that there is trouble the bartenders cannot han 
dle (see area 4). 

During inclement weather, the doors are closed, 
but the attendants open them whenever a customer 
approaches. If the PCs stop to pet the dog, one atten 
dant shoos it away while the other greets the visitors. 

If the PCs visit the Golden Cockatrice after dark, one 
of the two attendants is Traven, a polymorphed lyco- 
sidilith. The fiend is on the lookout for parts of the 
Rod. It doesn't know how well it has succeeded. 

Traven (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Lycosidilith): AC 

10 (no armor in polymorphed form) or -4; MV 12 or 
18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 10+6; hp 51; THACO 9 (8 with 
short sword +1); #AT 2 or 3; Dmg ld6+7/ld6+7 (short 
sword +1) or 2d4/ld6+7/ld6+7 ( short sword +1/ bite); 
SA spell-like abilities at 10th level, poison, gating, 
webs; SD webs, affected only by +2 or better 
weapons, immunities, invisibility detection (50-foot 
radius); SW suffer full damage from iron weapons 
and half damage from silver weapons, susceptible to 
holy water; MR 60%; SZ M (5' 6" tall) or L (8' long); 
ML champion (15); Int exceptional (16); AL CE; XP 
22,000; See Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- darkness 15' 
radius, teleport ivithout error, cause fear (in a single crea 
ture by touch), invisibility, telekinesis; three times a 
day- forget, mirror image, polymorph self; always 
active- infravision (90-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld3 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The opponent can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d6 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the opponent 
develops a festering sore after 2d8 hours and loses 
one hit point and one additional hit point each day 
until he receives a neutralize poison spell. The oppo 
nent also suffers a -3 penalty to Dexterity for 2d6 
rounds. 

Gate ability works three times a day with a 60% 
chance of success; it summons 2dl0 kakkuu, ld8 
spithriku, ld4 phisarazu, or 1 lycosidilith. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall. 


create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 15 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a 
save vs. breath weapon, wrap helpless or uncon 
scious creatures, entangle effect in a 10'x 50'x 20' cone 
(range 0), or fire a lightweight ball that extends the 
range of the fear ability to 30 yards; every two 
rounds- glitterdust effect (range 40 yards); every 
three rounds- iveb effect (range 50 yards). All webs 
have only a 50% chance to burn if attacked with fire. 
Can use a web ability while attacking physically but 
not while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Invisibility detection is always active but nonmagi 
cal: cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and effects 
that block divination magic. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

Personality: Smooth, curious, audacious. 

Special Equipment: Two short swords +1. 

Attendant hm F7: AC 7 (studded leather armor); 
MV 12; hp 43; THACO 15 (13 with Strength bonus); 
#AT 3/2; Dmg ld6+4 (short sword + Strength bonus) 
or pummel; SZ M (5' 9" tall); ML steady (11); AL N; 
XP nil. 

S 18/89, D 10, C 16,113, W 10, Ch 12. 

3. Foyer 

On nights when the Golden Cockatrice is busy, this 
area is alive with music and dancing. A tall screen 
blocks drafts from the door and keeps passersby 
from seeing inside, though sound filters out. 

During quieter periods, customers gravitate to 
seats near the fireplaces or tables near the bars. 

A smaller screen blocks drafts from the courtyard. 
The north side of this screen usually is festooned with 
notices of all kinds. Patrons use the screen to post per 
sonal messages, advertisements, and the like. Official 
announcements from the government are also posted 
here. Illiterate patrons can usually find a hall employee 
or fellow customer to read the notices aloud. 

4. Bars 

The bulk of the Golden Cockatrice's patrons gather 
in these two areas. Most nights, the bartenders Frane 
and Vaja, fraternal twins, are on duty. They share 
golden hair, bright blue eyes, and muscular builds. 
Vaja is a little shorter than her brother, Frane, but 
they otherwise look alike. Both are attractive, slow to 





anger, and quick to laugh. Both brother and sister 
enjoy a good brawl and won't hesitate to leap the bar 
and help subdue a troublemaker. If a general brawl 
erupts (see Event 7), the bartenders use their magical 
items to incapacitate the most dangerous-looking 
offenders first. 

When the PCs enter, Frane is tending bar next to 
area 3 and Vaja is tending bar near area 6. 

Frane and Vaja, hm & hf F6: AC 8 (Dexterity 
bonus); MV 12; hp 6 each; THACO 15 (14 with 
Strength bonus, 13 with specialized club); #AT 3/2 or 
1; Dmg 2d4+5 (great club) or pummel; SZ M (6' 2" & 
5' 9" tall); ML steady (11); AL NG; XP Nil. 

Notes: Clubs are most often used to subdue. Spe 
cialized with great club. 

S 18/22, D 16, C 16,110, W 9, Ch 14. 

Personality: Outgoing, helpful, cheerful. 

Special Equipment: gem of brightness (40 charges) 
(Frane), wand of size alteration (68 charges) (Vaja). 

5. Courtyard 

When weather permits, this area is open to the 
public. It offers a quiet place to sit and bask in the 


sunshine. The courtyard's chief attractions, however, 
are the covered well and the coop. 

The well is a cylinder of cunningly laid stones 
about 3 feet high topped with a windlass and a slate 
roof. Flecks of mica in the stones make even the 
palest beam of light break up in a spray of motes that 
dance and dazzle the eye. 

The coop is a weighty structure of thick timbers 
reinforced with wrought iron. Four bad-tempered 
cockatrices live inside. They are the hall's mascots, 
and the management and patrons do not look kindly 
on visitors who harass them. An incredibly lifelike 
statue of a jolly looking man stands next to the coop. 
The figure is hunched over and has one finger stuck 
through the coop's bars. The man is a drunken patron 
who took a dare and poked a finger in the coop. The 
hall's owners have left him there as a warning. 

Cockatrices (4): AC 6; MV 6, FI 18 (C); HD 5; hp 29, 
22, 20,19; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld3 (bite) SA petri 
fication; SD cannot be petrified by another cockatrice; 
SZ S (3' tall); ML steady (11); Int animal (1); AL N; XP 
650 each; MM/45. 

Notes: Melee hits cause opponent to save vs. petri 
fication or be turned to stone. 














6. Gambling Pit 

The tables here are reserved exclusively for gam 
bling. The most popular game is Dragonfire, a tile 
game described in Book III. The management 
always keeps a covert watch over this area, looking 
for pickpockets and cheaters. It is possible for the 
PCs to be hired for this purpose; see the Events sec 
tion for details. 

7. Kitchen 

This room bustles with activity whenever the hall 
is open for business. In cool weather, the kitchen is 
cozy, warm, and filled with delicious smells. In 
warmer weather, the room still smells good but is 
intolerably hot. Supplies for the kitchen are kept in 
the pantry (area 7a) and the buttery (area 7b). 

The staff here doesn't appreciate visits from 
patrons unless the customer has a silver tongue and 
lots of kind words for the cook. If a character bursts 
into the room, the workers assume there is a brawl in 
progress and scurry for cover. If an interloper doesn't 
leave immediately, he is subjected to a hail of missile 
fire in the form of cleavers, hot soup, and plates of 
leftovers. 

Kitchen Staff, hm & hf FO (8): AC 10; MV 12; HD 
1; hp 4 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (knife or 
cleaver), ld3 (bowl of soup) or ld2 (plate of left 
overs); SA blinding, slipping; SZ M; ML unsteady (7); 
Tnt average (9); AL N; XP Nil. 

Notes: Successful hit with a bowl of soup causes 
save vs. paralyzation or blindness for ld3 rounds 
(hot soup in the eyes). Hit with a plate of leftovers 
causes save vs. breath weapon or knockdown 
(slipped on grease or fruit peel). Unless knives are 
used, damage is considered subdual. 

8. Privies 

These two small structures are kept for the 
patrons' comfort and convenience. They're drafty in 
winter and uncomfortably pungent in summer, but 
they allow reasonable privacy. An attendant is 
always on hand to see to it that patrons are not 
harassed while using the privies. 


sword + Strength bonus) or pummel; SZ M (5' 9" 
tall); ML steady (11); AL N; XP nil. 

S 18/18, D 17, C 14,1 9, W 12, Ch 8. 

Events 

Any or all of the following incidents might occur 
while the PCs are visiting the Golden Cockatrice. Begin 
with Event 1, then use the remaining events in any 
order you wish. (Events 6 and 8 provide the main 
action.) If the PCs have been laired to watch for cheating, 
they are directed to speak to Vaja; see Event 5 for details. 

Event 1: Arrival 

The boxed text assumes the party enters through 
the main doors. If the party enters through the back 
door, alter the text accordingly. 

The festhall's interior is huge, shadowy, and a bit 
drafty. The air is sweet with the tang of strong beer 
and fresh bread. "Have a seat anywhere," says the 
attendant at the door. "There's plenty of space at 
the bar. The courtyard is open today too; just walk 
through those doors there. I trust you know 
enough to stay clear of the birds." 

The room where you are standing is at least 100 
feet long, and about as wide. There are dozens of 
tables, but only the comer ones are currently occu 
pied. The customers seem to be relaxing locals. They 
give you a cursory glance and return to their con 
versations. The bar which the attendant mentioned 
is made from undressed stones mortared together 
like a wall in a field. The top seems to be made from 
huge logs sawed into rough planks and laid atop 
the stones with the bark still on. The whole affair is 
about 4 feet high. A foot-high dais at one end would 
give shorter customers a step up, but there are only 
a few humans standing at the bar now. 

The barkeep, a blond giant of a man with fists as 
big as the mugs of ale he is serving catches your 
eye and gives you a brilliant smile. 

The only other person you take note of in the 
place is a lithe elf woman carrying a longbow and a 
quiver full of arrows. Her back is turned to you, and 
she seems to be intently studying some notes and 
handbills tacked to a screen near the courtyard door. 


The elf woman is Lynnya, a ranger/mage who is 
seeking employment. If the PCs speak to her, she 


Attendant hm F7: AC 4 (studded leather armor 
and Dexterity bonus); MV 12; hp 34; THACO 14 (13 
with Strength bonus); #AT 3/2; Dmg ld6+3 (short 


29 




At the Si£n of the Golden Cockatrice 


immediately asks if they read Common; Lynnya 
reads only elvish and is having considerable diffi 
culty deciphering the notices. Today's notices are an 
uninspiring mishmash of commercial advertise 
ments and personal messages. None pique her 
interest. 

If the PCs ask Lynnya about herself, she says she's 
a tracker and sometime mage looking for an adven 
turing group to join or for long-term employment 
with an experienced character. Striking up a conver 
sation with Lynnya, the PCs might discover the fol 
lowing additional information: 

• Until recently, she was part of a group of novice 
adventurers who didn't have much success. A disas 
trous encounter with a giant slug broke up the 
group. 

• She knows a thing or two about tracking and about 
fighting giants, though she has never faced a giant in 
single combat. 

• She prefers practical, but not necessarily flashy, 
magic. 

• If joining a group for an adventure or a short series 
of adventures, she expects an equal share of the pro 
ceeds. (Clever groups can bargain and convince her 
to agree to a half share.) 

• For long term service, Lynnya expects 50 gp a 
month, access to new spells for her spellbooks, and at 
least 10% of what her employer earns during an 
adventure in which she takes part. She is not inter 
ested in a job that would keep her in a city for a long 
time. 

Lynnya would be happy to join the PCs for the 
evening, if they pay (she is broke). If the party offers 
her employment, she does not accept immediately, 
wishing to study the PCs first. She won't join a party 
with evil characters in it (she has no way to detect 
alignments, but she has enough common sense to 
spot nasty people when she meets them), nor will she 
join a group that expects to face a dragon or high- 
level spellcaster (she knows that one fireball could kill 
her). 

Lynnya, elf, R5/M5: AC 3 (elven chain mail and 
Dexterity bonus); MV 12 (lightly encumbered); hp 30; 
THACO 16 (15 when employing missiles); #AT 2; 


Dmg Id6/ld4 (short sword and dagger) or Id6/ld6 
(short bow and flight arrows); SA ranger abilities, 
spells, elf abilities; SD 90% resistance to sleep and 
charm spells; SZ M (5' 2" tall); ML elite (14); AL LG; 
XP Nil. 

Notes: Can influence natural animals (save vs. rods 
at a -1 penalty negates), track with a base score 15, 
and receives a +4 attack bonus and a -4 reaction 
penalty vs. giants. Can use two-weapon style with 
out penalty. 

S 15, D 16, C 15,115, W 14, Ch 12. 

Personality: Cautious, perceptive, practical. 

Spells (4/2/1): 1st -sleep (x2), feather fall, magic mis 
sile ; 2nd- web, invisibility; 3rd- haste. 

Ranger Abilities: MS 35%, HS 31% (armor adjust 
ment included). 


Event 2: This is Your Lucky Day, Honest 


This event can occur anytime after the PCs have 
settled down to chat or to enjoy some refreshments. 



mam 


a low buzz of convers 
aroma of roasting me; 
Hearty laughter erupt 
and a dandyish lookir 
some joke as he passe: 
past your table and gi 
"Hey, is that your a 
ing to a shiny coin on 


If the PCs don't claim the copper piece, the half-elf, 
a local thief named Tailleur, scoops it up with a flour 
ish and uses the distraction to cut the nearest PC's 
purse. If a PC takes the copper, Tailleur cuts that 
character's purse. Roll the attempt normally. For pur 
poses of this event, Tailleur automatically gets the 
PC's purse, belt pouch, or other similar container 
with a successful roll. (If the PC in question doesn't 
have anything resembling a purse, Tailleur chooses 
another subject.) 

If the roll fails, Tailleur still gets the purse, but at 
least one PC sees him take it. If the PCs are particu 
larly suspicious, there is a 25% penalty to the roll. 

If caught, Tailleur remains perfectly calm. He 
insists that he had no desire to steal anything, but 
was merely demonstrating a new product: 


30 








"Yes, sir (or ma'am), you clearly need one of 
Tailleur's improved security pouches. And I'm 
pleased to announce that you qualify for a substan 
tial discount! This feather proves it." The half-elf 
produces a long white feather, presumably from 
the purse. 

"Yessir, this is your lucky day. You see, not only 
was your old purse unsecured, it was disorga 
nized! I mean, how could you find anything in 
here?" With a flick of his wrist the cutpurse dumps 
the pouch out, scattering its contents over the 
tabletop. Several onlookers chuckle as the coins 
and sundries tumble out and roll to a stop. Every 
body seems to be looking your way. 

Tailleur is an accomplished pickpocket who has 
the good sense not to prey on the locals. On those 
rare occasions when he is caught, he does not fight or 
flee, but tries to bluff his way out. The patrons at the 
Golden Cockatrice find his dishonorable antics amus 
ing. 

If the PCs don't chase him away from their table, 
Tailleur continues his act: 

"Allow me to demonstrate our latest model. It has 
loops reinforced with wire to prevent cutting and 
four-no, five-internal pockets to keep every 
thing sorted nicely. Our sample here contains a few 
coins in one compartment, a vial of water, flint..." 
Another voice cuts in: "Hey, that's my purse!" 

"Tut tut, good man, one customer at a time; this 
gentleman is ahead of you. And please do some 
thing about that broken belt of yours, your 
breeches are falling down." 

The man's breeches are indeed falling down. 
Tailleur cut his belt to get the pouch he is showing to 
the PCs. The man gathers up his drooping pants and 
exits the hall amid gales of laughter. 

• "Stealing? Why sir, that's what I'm in business to 
prevent!" 

• "Our normal price is 2 gold pieces, but for you-" 
(looking at the coins on the table), "17 silver!" 

• "Okay, how about a two for one deal? My associ 
ates deliver in three weeks; just pay me now." 


If the PCs attack or call for the watch, the crowd 
rallies to Tailleur's aid. Tailleur never picks on any 
one who can't afford to lose a few coins, and he is 
generous with his ill-gotten gains. That and his wit 
keep the petty pickpocket popular. Tailleur uses his 
tumbling skill to evade the PCs while several patrons 
"accidentally" block the PCs. (See Event 7 for 
details). If the PCs protest, the management buys the 
party a round of drinks and promises to recover the 
stolen purse by morning (which they do). 

Tf the PCs voice righteous anger, they can force a 
fine of 15 gp from Tailleur, which is all he can afford. 
If the PCs simply demand their purse back, they get 
it. If they also return the purse stolen from the other 
patron, award the group an experience bonus. 

Tailleur, hem T5: AC 6 (leather armor and Dexterity 
bonus) or 2 (when tumbling); MV 12; hp 21; THACO 
18 (16 with missiles due to Dexterity adjustment); #AT 
1 or 2; Dmg ld6 (short sword) or Id4/ld4 (daggers); 
SA backstab for triple damage, thief abilities; SD 30% 
resistance to sleep and charm, tumbling; SZ M (5' 3" 
tall); ML elite (13); AL N (CG); XP 650. 

Notes: Tumbling proficiency (base score 17); if 
used successfully when not attacking, armor class 
improves by 4. 

S 11, D 17, C 9,115, W 10, Ch 15. 

Personality: Smooth, troublesome. 

Thief Abilities: PP 75, OL 35, P/RT 35, MS 30, HS 30, 
DN 30, CW 75, RL 30. 

Special Equipment: 6 daggers, short sword, thief's 
tools. 

Event 3: Talking Cockatrice 

If the PCs scrutinize the cockatrices in the courtyard, 
a gnome illusionist seated at one of the tables can't 
resist having a little fun with a ventriloquism spell: 

A low, stout enclosure made from whitewashed 
timbers and wrought iron bars stands at the south 
end of the courtyard, surrounded by a neatly 
trimmed rectangle of lawn. There are four large 
fowl inside. They look to be hens, and the cage 
reeks with the odor of live poultry. The hens' long 
tails and wicked eyes, however, suggest something 
sinister. An astonishingly lifelike statue of a 
drunken man poking his finger through the bars 
indicates that these particular fowl might best be 
left alone. 









One particularly sleek looking hen stares back at 
you. "Polly wants a cracker," she says in a falsetto 
tone. "Actually, Polly wants outta here, but I'll set 
tle for a cracker or anything other than the chicken 
feed I usually get around here." 

The cockatrice is a particularly aggressive speci 
men that stares at anyone who comes too close. Cicer, 
the illusionist, chose it to make his prank a little more 
believable. Anyone examining the cockatrice closely 
when it is speaking can tell it isn't cioing the talking. 
A quick look around the courtyard reveals several 
people staring at the party. The gnomes are not star 
ing at the party; they seem to be chatting among 
themselves. If the PCs strike up a conversation with 
the cockatrice, the gnome offers the following: 

• "Yeah, I'm actually an enchanted princess. All I 
need is a kiss from a prince, but don't worry, you'll 
do. You're so tall." 

• "Princes get turned into frogs, and princesses get 
turned into chickens." 

• "The statue? It's a fake. How about that kiss?" 

If a PC is foolish enough to try and kiss the cocka 
trice, the creature flies at the bars with a loud squawk 
and nips the character with its beak. The character 
suffers the normal damage and petrification chance. 

The coop is locked, though the latch can be picked, 
broken, or opened with a knock spell. If the door 
opens, the cockatrices rush out and furiously attack 
the nearest creature. Cicer adds to the confusion by 
casting a color spray spell into the melee. After 2d4 
rounds, a hall employee appears and shoos the cock 
atrices back into the coop. The monsters obey if they 
are not under attack; they have been trained to obey 
simple commands. 

Cicer, gm F3/I113: AC 6 (ring of protection +2, Dex 
terity bonus); MV 6; hp 12; THACO 18 (17 with mis 
siles due to Dexterity adjustment); #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 
1d6+l (short sword + Strength bonus) or 
1 d4+l /1 d4+l (dagger + Strength bonus); SA spells, 
racial abilities, illusionist abilities; SD racial abilities; 
SZ S (3' 5" tall); ML elite (14); AL CG; XP Nil. 

Notes: +4 saving throw bonus vs. effects from 
magical devices and spells. 

Gains an additional +1 bonus on saves vs. illu- 







; At: the Sign of the Golden Cockatrit 






sion/phantasm spells, 
and opponents' saves vs. 

Cicer's illusion/phantasm 
spells suffer a -1 penalty. 

Gains an additional illu 
sion/ phantasm spell per 
spell level. 

S 16, D 16, C 14,116, W 10, Ch 13. 

Personality: Mischievous, boisterous. 

Spells (3/2): 1st -color spray*, grease, ventriloquism*; 
2nd- blindness*, improved phantasmal force*. 

* illusion/phantasm spell. 

Special Equipment: ring of protection +2. 

Gnomes, Fl/Illl (4): AC 10; MV 6; hp 4 each; 
THACO 20; #AT 1 or 2; Dmg ld6 (short sword) or 
Id4/ld4 (dagger); SA spells, racial abilities, illusion 
ist abilities; SD racial abilities; SZ S; ML elite (13); Int 
very (12); AL CG; XP Nil. 

Notes: +4 saving throw bonus vs. effects from 
magical devices and spells. 

Gains an additional +1 bonus on saves vs. illu 
sion/ phantasm spells, and opponents' saves vs. their 
illusion/phantasm spells suffer a -1 penalty. Gains 
an additional illusion/phantasm spell per spell level. 

Spells (2): 1st- phantasmal force*, spook*. 

* illusion/phantasm spell. 

Event 4: Gambling 

There are several options should the PCs wish to 
gamble. Characters with the gaming proficiency can 
simply sit down at a table and make a proficiency 
check. A character can choose a fellow patron as an 
opponent (level 0, gaming skill 13), or play against 
the house. 

A character can wager up to 10 gp at a time against 
another customer. The PC collects double his bet if he 
wins, but the house takes 10%. If a character wins 100 
gp or more, nobody will gamble with him anymore. 

If a customer catches a PC cheating, the disgruntled 
NPC gives the character a baleful look, then slips out 
the back door. No other customer will gamble with 
the PC, and the house won't either. 

If the character wishes to bet against the house, he 
faces Lowel, a bard who works here to pass the time 
between adventures. Lowel accepts any cash wager 
up to 100 gp. If the PC wins, he collects double his 
wager and does not have to pay anything to the 
house. 

Characters who do not have the gaming profi 


ciency can still gamble; they roll gaming checks 
using one half their Wisdom or one half their 
Charisma scores. 

Alternatively, the DM can set up an actual Dragon- 
fire game for the players according to the instructions 
given in Book III. 

If Lowel catches a PC cheating, he casts a sugges 
tion spell and asks the PC to surrender all his ill got 
ten gains and depart. The suggestion is reasonable, 
and the character suffers a -4 penalty to his saving 
throw. If the attempt fails, the staff tries to capture 
the PCs; see Event 7. 

Lowel, hm B7: AC 2 (bracers of defense AC 5 and 
Dexterity bonus); MV 12; hp 19; THACO 17 (15 with 
missiles due to Dexterity adjustment, 15 with long 
sword +2); #AT 1 or 2; Dmg ld8+2 ( long sword +2) or 
Id4/ld4 (daggers); SA spells, bard abilities; SZ M (5' 
9" tall); ML elite (14); AL NG; XP Nil. 

Notes: Can influence nonhostile crowds with a 
performance; the subjects attempt a saving throw vs. 
paralyzation at -2. If they fail, their mood shifts one 
step (see Table 59 in the DMG) in the direction the 
bard desires. If the saving throw succeeds, the 
crowd's mood shifts in the opposite direction. Music, 
poetry, and stories can inspire allies within 70 feet if 
performed for three rounds before a battle begins. 
Affected allies gain a +1 bonus to attacks and saving 
throws and a +2 bonus to morale for seven rounds. 
Gaming proficiency (base score 16). 

S 14, D 17, C 10,114, W 15, Ch 16. 

Personality: Cool, professional. 

Spells (3/2/1): 1st- charm person, color spray, sleep; 
2nd- ESP, web; 3rd- suggestion. 

Bard Abilities: PP 55, DN 35, CW 65, RL 20. 

Special Equipment: long sword +2 (NG, 112, detects 
invisibility in a 10-foot radius). 

Event 5: Cheaters 

This event is a must if the PCs have been hired to 
watch for cheating in the gambling pit. When the 
PCs arrive, they are told to get their instructions from 
Vaja. 



At the Si^n of the Golden Cockatrice 


The tall, brawny blond is happy to have the PCs' 
help for tonight, and gives each a bone crushing 
handshake, then instructs them as follows: 

* "Here is 200 gp. Divide it up among yourselves 
and pretend to get a game going between you. Keep 
an eye on the other tables, but be subtle." 

* "Watch for spellcasting and attempts to switch dice 
or tiles. There's a human rogue who hangs around 
with a couple of toughs. We're pretty sure he's 
worked out a system of signals for cheating at Drag- 
onfire. Watch for that, too. If you catch anyone doing 
something wrong, walk up to the offender and say: 
"It really is a game of skill." That will alert the rest of 
the staff. If a fight breaks out, hang in there; help will 
be on the way if you need it." 

* "You keep the 200 gp no matter what happens. If 
you catch anybody cheating, you get their stuff, 
minus whatever damages there might be." 

The PCs can sit anywhere in the gambling pit 
(area 6). If they take reasonable care, they look just 
like any other group of adventurers having a 
friendly game. However, if the PCs are foolish 
(openly discussing their work, obviously studying 
their fellow patrons, casting spells, openly redistrib 
uting their 200 gp, etc.) they stick out like a sore 
thumb and they notice nothing because their pres 
ence scares away any cheaters. 

Otherwise, the PCs watch for about two hours 
before they notice Cheal, a tall, lanky rogue. Cheal has 
been winning steadily at Dragonfire, and he has a 
habit of staring intently at his three fellow players- 
he's using a medallion of ESP. Then the PCs catch him 
giving one of his companions a hand signal, a clear 
violation of the rules. If they watch a little longer, they 
also see him remove a tile from the table and replace it 
with one from his belt pouch. If the PCs confront 
Cheal, the fellow pushes over the table and backs 
away. His three cohorts attack the characters while 
Cheal hurls poisoned darts. Three of the thugs are at 
the table, but three more are seated in the crowd, just 
like the PCs are. This trio hits the PCs from behind if 
they don't watch their backs. The characters are on 
their own for a few rounds until the rest of the staff 
intervenes (see Event 7). 

Cheal, hm T8: AC 4 (leather armor +2 and Dexterity 
bonus); MV 12; hp 31; THAC0 17 (16 with missiles 


due to Dexterity adjustment or with long sword +1); 
#AT 1 or 3; Dmg ld8+l (long sword +1) or Id4/ld4/ 
ld4 (darts); SA backstab for triple damage, thief abili 
ties; SZ M (5' 11" tall); ML champion (15); AL CE; 

XP 2,000. 

Notes: Darts have type D poison. Characters struck 
by a dart must save vs. poison. Victims suffer 30 
points of damage if the save fails and 2d6 points of 
damage otherwise. The onset time is ld2 rounds. 

S 11, D 17, C 7,113, W 9, Ch 10. 

Personality: Greedy, vicious. 

Thief Abilities: PP 80, OL 45, F/RT 45, MS 45, HS 45, 
DN 30, CVV 75, RL 30. 

Special Equipment: Double set of Dragonfire tiles, 
dagger, 6 poisoned darts, thief's tools, medallion of 
ESP (30-foot range), potion of invisibility, oil of fiery 
burning , leather armor +2, long sword +1. 

Cheal's thugs, hm F4 (6): AC 5 (chain mail); MV 9 
(moderately encumbered); hp 20 each; THAC0 17 
(15 with bonuses for Strength and specialization); 

#AT 3/2; Dmg ld8+5 (long sword plus bonuses for 
Strength and specialization); SZ M; ML steady (11); 
Int average (8); AL NE; XP 270 each. 

Event 6: Can You Spare a Copper? 

Ranee Norve, who currently owns the first seg 
ment of the Rod , has been losing steadily at the gam 
bling tables all night. If the PCs have been gambling, 
they might very well have some of Ranee's money. 
Ranee is broke and has decided to use the segment to 
generate some cash. He knows how lo use the seg 
ment's cure light wounds power, so he queries his fel- 
low patrons about buying a cure: 

An overdressed, but impeccably neat fellow 
approaches you. He is tall, slender, and tanned, 
with a thin mustache and long hair done up care 
fully in bouncy curls. He doesn't appear 
armored. "Good evening ladies and gentlemen," 
he says with a bow. "The powers that be have 
seen fit to grant me the talent of curing minor 
wounds, but not the ability to u'in at the tables. If 
you are wounded and have a few coins to spare, 
perhaps we can reach a mutually beneficial 
arrangement." 

If the PCs wish to buy a cure. Ranee asks the stan 
dard price of 10 gp per point cured, but he's willing 



At the Si£n of the Golden Cockatrice 


to settle for 5 gp a point. If the characters speak with 
him a while, they learn the following: 

• "Alas, I once lived by the sword, but that profes 
sion seemed so dreadfully messy, not to mention 
dangerous. Now T spend my days practicing what 
limited healing arts I have and tempting fate in ways 
less dangerous than looking for monsters to fight." 

• "This wand? No, it isn't magical, but my grand 
mother got good use from it. It focuses my family's 
powers. It's an heirloom, but if you people would 
care to grant me enough money to undertake priest 
training, say 10,000 pieces of gold, you may have the 
wand." 

Ranee will settle for 5,000 gp if the PCs bargain. The 
tale about the wand being a family heirloom is pure 
bunk, and Ranee knows it. Moreover, Ranee is only 
semi-serious about becoming a priest-his Wisdom 
score is much too low. Worried about the Rod's side 
effects and none too impressed with its power, he is 
glad to sell it for a large chunk of cash. 

Ranee Norve, hin F2: AC 10; MV 12; hp 11; THAC0 
19 (18 with specialization bonus); #AT 3/2; Dmg 
ld8+2 (long sword and specialization bonus); SZ M 
(5' 10" tall); ML fanatic 17; AL LG; XP Nil. 

S 15, D 14, C 14,110, W 9, Ch 12. 

Personality: Curious, hopeful. 

Special Equipment: First segment of the Rod of Seven 
Parts. 

Event 7: Riot 

The patrons at the Golden Cockatrice tend to look 
out for themselves and usually scurry for cover if a 

j J 

serious fight erupts. Nevertheless, there are a few 
rowdies in the crowd who relish a good brawl, and 
particularly reckless PCs can find themselves facing a 
mob if they misbehave. 

A mob forms whenever the PCs use deadly force 
against a hall employee (especially popular employ 
ees such as Frane, Vaja, and Lowel) or make any 
unpnwoked attack on another patron. As noted in 
Event 2, Tailleur is a popular figure and the crowd 
rallies to his aid if he gets into trouble with the PCs, 

When the mob reacts, 3d6 patrons simply make it 
their business to get into the party's way. They stand 
in places where the characters might want to go, forc 
ing the PCs to detour around them, thereby slowing 


them down. (Level 0 patrons, AC 10, THAC0 20, hp 4 
each.) In addition, ld4 groups of six patrons form up 
to make massed overbearing attacks against PCs. The 
groups have an effective Strength score of 17 and a 
+1 bonus to hit when making such attacks. (Level 0 
patrons, AC 10, THAC0 20, hp 4 each.) 

The staff quickly reacts to any major disturbance or 
fight. The attendants from the main door and the 
privy (areas 2 and 8) and the nearest bartender (area 4) 
join any fight that breaks out. The bartender reacts 
immediately and the attendants join the fight after 
three rounds. Most of the staff seeks to subdue 
troublemakers, but Traven (from area 2) uses his alter 
self ability so he can bring his poisonous fangs to bear. 
He grapples his opponent, then bites while wrestling. 

Event 8: Spyder-fiend Attack 

The Queen of Chaos has noticed Ranee's daily use 
of the Rod to earn money. Sometime while the PCs 
are at the festhall, Ranee steps out the back door 
toward the privies and is ambushed by kakkuu. This 
event might best be timed when the PCs are involved 
in a brawl. The kakkuu attack Ranee even if he has 
sold his Rod segment to the PCs because he is the 
character who drew the queen's attention. Tactical 
Map D5 shows the area. 

Some unidentified sound finds its way to your ears 
through the babble in the hall. The hall grows a lit 
tle quieter; other patrons seem to have heard it as 
well. It sounds as if a dog is running along one of 
the alleys flanking the building, barking wildly 
and loudly. 

Somewhere in the distance, you can hear some 
one shrieking in terror. 

The queen has opened a chaos gate (see Book III, 
page 14) at one of the locations marked by an X on 
Map A3. You can choose one or determine it ran 
domly. The hound of law from area 1 detected the 
gate and is racing toward it. (The shrieking is from a 
tenement dweller who is dismayed to see a troupe of 
spyder-fiends outside his door.) If the PCs follow the 
hound, they encounter five kakkuu who are trying to 
find Ranee. The kakkuu climb over buildings and use 
their webs to move directly toward their target. They 
could lead the party on a merry chase as they run 
along the rooftops and down narrow alleys. The 
common folk of the district are utterly terrified and 



huddle in their homes until the trouble wand but has not so far recognized it as a segment of 
is over. If the PCs lose track of the the Rod. 

kakkuu, the hound puts them If the PCs join the fray, they find Ranee lying dead 

back on track by barking. near the privies and the two attendants locked in 

If the PCs don t kill them combat with the kakkuu. Traven quickly realizes that 

first, the kakkuu intercept either Ranee or the attendant must hold a segment of 

Ranee near the privies the Rod, so he uses his darkness ability to obscure the 

(area 8) and strike. Ranee melee. If the PCs have killed any kakkuu, Traven 
lets out a cry of his own tries to gate in more. He telepathically orders what- 

as the kakkuu bite him. ever kakkuu are on hand to attack the party while he 

The privy attendant rushes to Ranee's side. He pretends to bandage the 

leaps to Ranee's aid, fallen man but is really searching for the Rod. He 

shouting for help. locates it quickly; however, the hound of law arrives 

The two attendants and attacks before he can do anything with it. 

in area 2 run toward Enraged by the assault, Traven assumes his true form 

the back door when and fights the hound. The hound fights to the death, 

they hear their com- but the spyder-fiends fight only until they are 

patriot scream. Tra- reduced to 50% or less of their original hit points. At 

ven, although he is that point, they teleport to a nearby rooftop where 

a spyder-fiend they can observe the PCs. 

himself, doesn't If the PCs pick up the Rod segment, Traven casts 

know what's going darkness while the kakkuu teleport back to the attack, 
on. He has seen This time, they fight to the death. While the kakkuu 

Ranee using his fight, Traven becomes invisible and teleports into the 






















, ¦ - _ _ 'v _ ' • . ¦ ; 

' At the Sign of the Golden Cockatrice 


melee. He fights then 

teleports away. Traven knows it would please his 
queen if he recovered the first piece of the Rod, but he 
also hopes the PCs will begin a quest and lead him to 
the remaining pieces. 

If the PCs don't join the fray, the spyder-fiends kill 
Ranee and the hound; they also paralyze the two 
attendants. Traven uses his telekinesis ability to trans 
fer the Rod segment to one of the paralyzed atten 
dants, then returns with the segment and its human 
holder to the Steaming Fen (via his teleport without 
error ability), where he triumphantly presents the 
first portion of the Rod to the Queen of Chaos. She 
promptly transforms him into a raklupis and 
promises to kill him slowly if he does not recover the 
remaining segments soon. 

Preparing the Rod to be transported takes at least a 
turn, and the PCs hear a chorus of screams as the 
commoners in the area observe the spyder-fiends at 
their work. If they investigate at all, they disrupt the 
proceedings and have a fight on their hands, as 
described above. Now the PCs don't have the hound 
of law and the two attendants to help. 

Kakkuu (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Kakkuu) (5): AC 

2; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 4; hp 20 each; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2d4; SA spell-like abilities at 4th level, 
poison, gating, webs; SD webs, immunities, conceal 
ment; SW susceptible to holy water; MR 15%; SZ M 
(5' long); ML steady (11); Int semi (3); AL CE; XP 
5,000 each; See Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- darkness 15' 
radius, teleport without error ; always active- infravision 
(60-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The opponent can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d4 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the opponent suf 
fers a -2 penalty to Dexterity for 2d4 rounds. 

Gate ability works once a day with a 35% chance of 
success; it summons ld8 kakkuu. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a save 
vs. breath weapon, or wrap helpless or unconscious 
creatures. Can use a web ability while making a physi 
cal attack, but not while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 


Concealment makes a kakkuu 80% undetectable 
when motionless and in cover. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

Afterward 

The spyder-fiends create quite a stir in the neigh 
borhood, and after the dust settles, the area is 
mobbed with curious onlookers, members of the city 
guard, and several stray dogs. 

If Traven survived the fight but did not get the Rod 
segment, he uses his alter self power to try to retrieve 
it (via telekinesis). The stray dogs, however, are 
hounds of law, and they guard the segment, allowing 
only lawful characters to retrieve it. 

If Traven got the segment, all is not lost. Arquestan 
is on hand to help put the PCs on the scent of the 
next segment; see the Mysterious Stranger adven 
ture in Book III. 

If Ranee survives the adventure, or if the PCs take 
it upon themselves to get him raised, he is of no help. 
He stubbornly claims that the wand was an heir 
loom, and will reveal the command word only for a 
price (see Event 6). Ranee has no interest in searching 
for additional segments of the Rod. 



INCIDENT AT A fOOTBRIDQE 


Eudora, a sage who until recently had a taste for 
adventuring, has recovered the first segment of the 
Rod. Her efforts have attracted the Queen of Chaos, 
and the party of stalwarts Eudora recruited to search 
for the Rod have been killed. The search for the Rod 
was Eudora's life's work, but she knows that she 
won't survive it. That sober realization and the con 
stant danger she has endured during the past fort 
night has addled Eudora's wits and shattered her 
already frail health. 

This adventure consists of a single encounter and 
its aftermath. The encounter takes place on an iso 
lated footbridge; however, Eudora is wandering 
about in a daze and the PCs could meet her in almost 
any locale. Several things could lead the PCs to the 
bridge. 

• The PCs are going about their normal business, per 
haps returning from an adventure, when they find 
themselves in unfamiliar territory. They seem to have 
taken a wrong turn somewhere and now they are on a 
path no one can remember traversing before. A famil 
iar landmark (a mountain peak, city'-, ocean, or the like) 
is visible on the horizon, so the group isn't lost, but 
the characters are miles away from familiar haunts. It 
will he several hours traveling before they are home. 

• The PCs hear rumors of some strange form of spi 
der beasts stalking the neighborhood. The creatures 
attack viciously, then vanish into thin air. A bounty of 
2,000 gp (or some other amount suitable for the cam 
paign) has been offered for each beast slain. 

• The PCs are hired by one of Eudora's relatives to 
search the wilderness for the missing sage. 

Envaons' 

Eudora has chosen a footbridge as a refuge from 
the spyder-fiends that have been hounding her. She 
believes-incorrectly-that the fiends cannot get her 
while she is on the bridge. See Tactical Map D6 for 
details. 

The bridge is built of timber and has a low 
handrail. It is narrow, about 2_ feet wide and 
intended only for foot traffic. Characters can lead 
their mounts across the bridge if they dismount and 
walk. Riding a mount across the bridge requires a 
riding proficiency' check with a -4 penalty. If the roll 
fails, the mount refuses to set foot on the bridge with 
a rider on its back. Needless to say, PCs must cross 


the bridge in single file. 

The bridge offers good footing, but the narrow 
walkway imposes a -3 initiative penalty and negates 
defensive Dexterity. (Small creatures do not suffer 
either penalty, nor do spyder-fiends, due to their 
eight legs and climbing ability.) If a character falls 
down while fighting on the bridge (because of a suc 
cessful overbearing attack by an enemy, a grease spell, 
or some other means), the character must roll a suc 
cessful saving throw' vs. breath weapon at a -2 
penalty^ or fall off the bridge. 

The stream cannot be forded-it is about 20 feet 
deep in the middle-but characters can swim across 
with a successful swimming proficiency check. The 
current is too strong for nonproficient swimmers. PCs 
who fail their swimming checks and those who fall off 
the bridge into the water are swept downstream (to 
the south). They travel 4d8+5 feet downstream each 
round and begin to drown. Characters being swept 
downstream must make successful Constitution 
checks each round or die; proficient swimmers w<ho 
are lightly or moderately encumbered do not suffer 
the -2 cumulative penalty each round; see Chapter 14 
of the PHB for details. Characters who make three suc 
cessful Constitution checks are assumed to have been 
swept into shallow water or onto the banks. 

The stream's swampy banks are soft and slippery. 
Characters moving along the banks are reduced to 
two-thirds movement and suffer a +2 initiative 
penalty. 

The large trees are oaks with trunks about 3 feet in 
diameter. The main branches are showm on the map. 
These branches are about 12 feet off the ground and 
are wide enough that characters can move along 
them and fight from them just as though they were 
walking along the bridge; smaller branches act as 
handrails. The smaller trees are willows, too slender 
and springy for characters to climb. 



The narrow trail you are following seems to twist 
and turn endlessly. Outcrops of naked rock and 
thickets of trees and shrubs could hide almost any 
thing. 

Tf you haven't done so already, get a marching 
order for the party'. They have to go single file along 
the trail. Allow the PCs to make any additional pre 
cautions they might want. 





The trail takes a hairpin turn and plunges down a 
steep incline. At the bottom, you see a small river 
with masses of reeds and cattails along its banks. 
Clusters of willow trees cling to firmer ground and 
stately oaks tower above the willows. The trail leads 
about a hundred yards to a narrow footbridge that 
stretches across the river in a single span. A stringy- 
haired humanoid is seated on the bridge. The figure 
seems to be staring into the water. The creature is 
singing a familiar tune in a childlike voice, perhaps 
singing to the fish. 

The figure is Eudora. The PCs can't really tell she 
is an elderly human until they get closer. Eudora is 
oblivious to the PCs until they do something to call 
attention to themselves. However, several kakkuu 
have arrived on the scene and are hiding in the 
branches of the oak trees near the bridge (see map). 
They are aware of the PCs, but don't know what to 
do about them. For now, they crouch in the trees, 
where they are hidden from sight. 

If the PCs shout or do something else to get 
Eudora's attention, the woman stands up, waves, 
and shouts back: "Greetings, worthy sirs and ladies. 
Agents of the queen are everywhere, so you'd best 
join me in this sanctuary over running water. Are 
you wounded? Fear not, my wand will cure you!" 
When she stands up, the PCs can see she is an old 
woman. When she says "sanctuary" she means the 
bridge. 

If the PCs dawdle, Eudora motions for them to join 
her. The two kakkuu at the west end swing globs of 
web to try and snatch her off the bridge. The kakkuu 
on the east side of the bridge fire stands of web across 
the stream. They anchor the strands to the oak trees on 
the other bank. Eudora doesn't notice the webs, and 
neither will the PCs unless they are using detect invisi 
bility. As long as the PCs don't interfere, the kakkuu 
are content to remain hidden and try to snare Eudora 
with their webs. If they succeed, they haul her up into 
the trees on the west bank and try to paralyze her with 
their venom. If that works, they spend two rounds 
wrapping her in silk, then teleport back to the Steam 
ing Fen with Eudora and the Rod segment. 

If the PCs venture onto the bridge, one kakkuu 
casts darkness and the rest attack with their globs of 
webbing. If the characters avoid or cut the webs, the 
kakkuu leave the trees and attack. They can cross the 
river on their webs and can fight from their webs as 
well. 


If the PCs do something really unexpected, such as 
attacking Eudora, two kakkuu charge Eudora while 
the rest attack the PCs. 

No matter what happens, Eudora uses her spells 
against the kakkuu as best she can. 

Eudora, hf Div5: AC 10; MV 12; hp 10; THACO 20; 
#AT 1 or 2; Dmg ld4 (dagger) or Id4/ld4 (thrown 
daggers); SA spells, diviner abilities; SZ M (5' 1" tall); 
ML steady (12); AL LG; XP Nil. 

Notes: Gains a +1 bonus on saves vs. divination 
spells, and opponents' saves vs. Eudora's divination 
spells suffer a -1 penalty. Gains an additional divina 
tion spell per spell level. Gains a +2 Wisdom bonus 
on saves vs. mental attacks. 

Sage ability (regional folklore) (16), ancient history 
(14), local history (14). 

S 8, D 9, C 8,115, W 16, Ch 14. 

Personality: Paranoid, scatterbrained. 

Spells (5/3/2): 1st- cantrip, charm person, detect 
magic*, magic missile, protection from evil; 2nd- ESP*, 
ray of enfeeblement, stinking cloud; 3rd- clairvoyance*, 
fireball. 

* divination spell. 

Special Equipment: First segment of the Rod of Seven 
Parts. 

Kakkuu (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Kakkuu) (4): AC 

2; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 4; hp 20 each; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2d4; SA spell-like abilities at 4th level, 
poison, gating, webs; SD webs, immunities, conceal 
ment; SW susceptible to holy water; MR 15%; SZ M 
(5' long); ML steady (11); Int semi (3); AL CE; XP 
5,000 each; See Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- darkness 15' 
radius, teleport without error; always active- infravision 
(60-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The opponent can 
attempt a Constitution check every - 2d4 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the opponent suf 
fers a -2 penalty to Dexterity for 2d4 rounds. 

Gate ability works once a day with a 35% chance of 
success; it summons ld8 kakkuu. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a save 
vs. breath weapon, or wrap helpless or unconscious 
creatures. Can use a web ability while making a physi- 


39 



cal attack, but not while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Concealment makes a kakkuu 80% undetectable 
when motionless and in cover. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

Afterward 

If Eudora survives the encounter, or if the PCs suc 
cessfully raise her from the dead, they have a valu 
able, though insane, ally. Unless cured, Eudora 
spends most of her time singing to herself, or just 
hugging herself and sitting quietly. If coaxed into 
conversation, she talks like a child playing a silly 
game but makes veiled references to the Queen of 
Chaos. She never answers a question directly, and 
often changes the subject: 

• "I hate doggies. They have sharp teeth and poison 
fangs." 

• "Do you like spiders? I don't!" 

• "Beware the queen. . . she seeks what was lost and 
was unmade." 


• "What are clouds made of?" 

• "I had a stick that was unmade, then made again!" 

Eudora is just as difficult if questioned with speak 
with dead. If she receives a heal spell, she is cured. She 
has lost her enthusiasm for assembling the Rod but 
she can tell the PCs the Rod's full history and descrip 
tion, and its minor powers. She can only speculate 
about the Rod's other powers or its side effects. She 
does not know that Miska is immune to the Rod's 
lawful influence, or that using the Rod alerts the 
Queen of Chaos. She knows the vaati made the Rod, 
but knows little else about them. She does not know 
where any other parts of the Rod are. 











The second segment of the Rod of Seven Parts lies deep 
beneath the earth in the lair of the aboleth Tichthys. 
Unlike Osakay, the dark naga from the previous chap 
ter, Tichthys has spent years studying the segment 
and knows something about its true nature. Tichthys 
knows the command word for the segment's slow 
power ( coelum ) and understands that it is part of an 
artifact of law. Tichthys would like to possess the 
entire Rod ; it is unaware of the Rod's side effects. But 
the aboleth is unwilling to undertake the quest itself. 
Tichthys deems the task too dangerous and impracti 
cal in any event. Instead, it hopes to gather the seg 
ments indirectly. It knows, for example, that there is 
at least one segment smaller than the one it owns and 
is sure that some foolish group of adventurers (such 
as the PCs) will come along and give it the chance to 
seize another segment; see area 26 for details. 

The entrance to Tichthys's lair lies in a hilly area 
about 800 miles from King Syril's tomb, where the 
PCs might have found the first segment. The sur 
rounding area is wilderness; the nearest large city is 
about 100 miles away. There are only two ways the 
PCs can become involved in this adventure: they can 
use the first segment of the Rod to lead them to 
Tichthys's segment, or they can follow Arquestan's 
directions (see Book III). 

Searching for the Lair 

The entrance to Tichthys's lair lies in the depths of 
an abandoned goblin warren. Without guidance, the 
party could search for weeks before finding the sin 
gle passage that leads down into the aboleth's 
haunts. If the PCs have the first segment of the Rod, 
they can use its ability to detect the next piece (see 
Book III) to navigate through the caverns. The whole 
area is riddled with caves, but only one set of caves 
will allow the PCs to go in the direction the Rod indi 
cates. 

If the PCs don't have the first segment, they must 
strike a deal with Arquestan to find this place. 
(Arquestan suspects there is a segment of the Rod 
here because groups of kakkuu have frequented the 
area in the past.) Arquestan gives the PCs a map that 
shows the way through the goblin lair. It is not neces 
sary to play out the trip though the goblin caverns; 
the adventure begins when the party reaches area 1 
on level 1. 

If you wish, you can include this optional 
encounter while the PCs are making their way 
through the goblin warren: 


The sprawling cavern complex you have found 
seems to go on for miles. The caves are empty and 
silent save for the occasional "plink" of dripping 
water. Here and there you find signs of habitation: 
a firepit filled with ashes long cold, the splintered 
remains of a crude door, and a few empty casks. 

The residents seem to be long departed. 

You are tramping through a sizable chamber 
filled with the wreckage of what might once have 
been a barracks when you realize you are being 
watched. Two feral eyes stare out at you from a 
furry head with a pointed snout. The owner of the 
eyes is a squat creature that resembles a thick rug 
with stout legs ending in clawed feet and a wide 
mouth full of wickedly sharp teeth. It fixes you 
with a baleful stare and hisses like a bucket of snow 
thrown into a white-hot forge. 

"Thisbe! Stop that! Wait until they bite first." The 
voice is clear and cheerful, and the speaker pops 
into view with a magical twinkle. He is a short 
humanoid with a bulbous nose and tangled locks as 
red as strawberries. "Well," says the newcomer, "I 
suspect you're just passing through, so there's no 
need to be unpleasant. Mazzel Quickblade, Thisbe, 
and company at your service." 

Mazzel is a gnome adventurer. He, his pet giant 
badger Thisbe, and several more gnomes are explor 
ing the complex with an eye toward moving in. (The 
rest of the gnomes are within earshot and ready to 
back up Mazzel if he gets into trouble.) Mazzel has 
no wish to fight; he becomes invisible and flees at the 
first sign of hostility. His four companions down the 
hall cover his retreat with a grease spell, an illusion of 
a portcullis slamming down (with sounds provided 
via an audible glamer spell), and a shot from a cross 
bow. Thisbe flees along with Mazzel but stays 
between the gnome and the PCs. If the PCs are will 
ing to chat, Mazzel shares what he knows: 

• A band of goblins once lived in these eaves, but a 
group of hill giants dug them out and enslaved them. 
According to the local animals, the giants met their 
match years ago, and the place has been empty since. 

• The complex goes for miles. There are deep caves 
where even the goblins never went. There seems to 
be a bunch of very twitchy fish men living down 
there. They either cannot or will not talk, and they 
don't like visitors. 













Mazzel wants to know what the PCs are doing here: 


• "Looking for treasure? There isn't any." 

• "Are you looking for monsters? There aren't any 
up here, except maybe for a lot of gnomes in the next 
few months. There's the fish men, but they don't 
seem to have any treasure except mushrooms." 

Mazzel knows nothing about the Rod, or what the 
creatures in the deep caves are really doing. He plans 
to remain here for a while to see what might wander 
up from the depths. 

Mazzel, gm F7/T8: AC 0 (bracers of defense AC 4, 
Dexterity bonus); MV 6; hp 36; THACO 14 (13 with 
short sword +1 ,11 with darts +1); #AT 3/2 or 3; Dmg 
ld6+l (short sword +1) or Id3+l/ld3+l/ld3+l (darts 
+1); SA racial abilities, thief abilities; SD racial abilities; 
SZ S (3' 7" tall); ML elite (14); AL CG; XP Nil. 

Notes: +4 saving throw bonus vs. effects from 
magical devices and spells. 

S 15, D 18, C 14,1 12, W 11, Ch 10. 

Personality: Open-minded, careful. 

Thief Abilities: PP 80, OL 65, F/RT 55, MS 65, HS 70, 
DN 55, CW 75, RL 25. 

Special Equipment: ring of invisibility, 6 darts +1, 
short sword +1, bracers of defense AC 4, 3 pinches of dust 
of sneezing and choking, medallion of thought projection 
(not worn). 

Gnomes, F2/I112 (4): AC 8 (Dexterity bonus); MV 6; 
hp 4 each; THACO 20 (19 with missiles due to Dexter 
ity adjustment); #AT 1 or 1; Dmg ld6 (short sword) 
or ld4 (light crossbow); SA spells, racial abilities, illu 
sionist abilities; SD racial abilities; SZ S; ML elite (13); 
Int very (12); AL CG; XP Nil. 

Notes: +4 saving throw bonus vs. effects from 
magical devices and spells. 

Gains an additional +1 bonus on saves vs. illu 
sion/phantasm spells, and opponents' saves vs. their 
illusion/phantasm spells suffer a -1 penalty. Gains 
an additional illusion/phantasm spell per spell level. 

Spells (3): 1st- audible glamer*, grease, phantasmal 
force*. 

* illusion/phantasm spell. 

Thisbe (Giant Badger): AC 4; MV 6, Br 3; HD 3; hp 

15; THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6; SZ M (4' 
long); ML average (8); Int semi (3); AL N; XP 120; 
MCA2/83. 


The entire cavern complex is unlit except where 
noted. Similarly, the passages and chambers are nat 
ural unless otherwise indicated. Natural passages are 
roughly half again as high as they are wide. Cham 
bers are twice as high as they are wide. For example, 
area la is 15 feet wide and 20 feet long. It has a ceil 
ing about 30 feet high. 

All the walls are smooth and damp, making them 
difficult to climb (treat as slightly slippery, imposing 
a -25% adjustment on attempts to climb). The ceil 
ings in the natural areas are bristling with small sta 
lactites, but the floors are fairly clear of stalagmites 
(most have been broken off by creatures walking 
through the tunnels). 

Sinkholes, unless otherwise noted, are 40-60 (30 + 
Id3xl0) feet deep and have no unusual features. 

Areas 20-26 are completely underwater. The floors 
in these areas are liberally covered with stalagmites. 

About the Maps 

Tichthys's lair consists of four major areas (levels 
1-4) connected by long passageways. Map B1 shows 
the relationships between the areas. Levels A, B, and 
C are small encounter areas between the main levels. 

Tracking the Rod 

When the PCs enter the complex, the second seg 
ment of the Rod is in area 26 (level 4). If the charac 
ters have the first segment, they can determine the 
direction in which the second segment lies. When 
ever the party checks the direction, the segment 
always points toward area 26 on level 4. Unless oth 
erwise noted, the direction the segment indicates 
depends on the level of the complex through which 
the party is moving. The introductory text for each 
level notes this direction. 

Tichthys 

Tichthys has an active mind, but a slothful body. It 
prefers to lie in a cocoon of soothing slime and men 
tally command its servants to do its bidding. Tichthys 
maintains occasional telepathic contact with all the 
skum in the complex, and also with the kuo-toa and 
the other aboleth (see area 19). When the party first 
triggers an alarm or attacks a resident, Tichthys learns 
about it with a few minutes. The aboleth is not con- 




Spelunking 


cemed about the PCs until they reach level 3. At that 
point, it begins to consider them a serious threat. As 
soon as the PCs make themselves known on level 3, 
Tichthys constantly monitors the situation. However, 
Tichthys leaves defense of the complex to his many 
servants until the PCs reach level 4. 

If given the opportunity, Tichthys attempts to for 
tify his defenses when the PCs retreat or stop to rest 
(see Afterward, page 70). 

Level 1 

This level is about 100 feet below the surface. The 
first segment of the Rod indicates cast and down. 

1. Entry 

The twisting passage you have been following 
downward for the past hour narrows, forcing your 
group through a tight bottleneck. Cramped quar 
ters lie ahead, and a reek of decay seems to be 
coming from somewhere nearby. 

Unless the PCs are walking blind, without light or 
infravision, they can easily look north and see part of 
area la. 

la. Crystal Chamber 

4 he walls here are studded with multicolored 
chunks of quartz. At a glance, the crystals seem to be 
natural, but Tichthys ordered them placed here years 
ago. Any light source brought into this room creates 
brilliant reflections. Ihe play of light is itself harmless. 

Alert: Strong light sources, such as continued light 
spells and bullseye lanterns, rouse the shriekers in 
area lb whenever they shine into that room. 

lb. Shrieker Chamber 

An earlier visit by the gnomes prompted 
Tichthys's servants to maintain a generous pile of 
pungent offal in this room to keep the five shriekers 
who live here contented. Tichthys does not want the 
shriekers wandering away while there are interlopers 
nosing about. The shriekers provide the complex 
with an excellent alarm system; their shrieking is 
clearly audible everywhere on this level. 

Alert: Disturbing Tichthys's shriekers has a pro 
nounced effect. The umber hulk who usually watches 


area 3 scuttles back to area 2, keeping an eye on the 
two passages leading north. The skum in area 3 
respond by hiding out of sight and preparing their 
own ambush. 

Shriekers (Fungi) (5): AC 7; MV 1; HD 3; hp 14 
each; THACO 17; #AT 0; Dmg nil; SA shriek; SD 
shriek; SZ M (5' tall); ML steady (12); Int non (0); AL 
N;XP 120 each; MM/121. 

Notes: Light within 30 feet or movement within 10 
feet causes a piercing shriek that is audible through 
out the complex. If any shrieker is attacked, they all 
shriek. 

2. Umber Hulk Chamber 

Given the opportunity, the umber hulk attempts to 
surprise the PCs from its side passage before they 
enter the chamber. 

A scattering of splintered bones on this chamber's 
floor suggests that some carnivore lairs here. There 
is no sign of a nest or any bedding, however. 

In addition to tire natural passage that led you 
here, this chamber has two other openings, both 
ragged and slightly larger than the natural one. 

One leads south and the other north. 

A wandering umber hulk has taken up residence 
here after burrowing its way in from the south. The 
slaves that worked in area 3 provided it with easy 
prey. Tichthys decided not to have the monster killed 
and instead regularly sends unarmed slaves to keep 
it fed. Skum now do the slaves' work. 

The umber hulk has dug itself several new tunnels 
for hunting (see highlighted areas on map); these tun 
nels are a little less than five 5 wide and about 8 feet 
high. Unlike the natural tunnels, they have no stalac 
tites or stalagmites and the walls clearly show claw 
marks. Wherever one of these tunnels runs alongside 
another tunnel or chamber, a series of fine cracks 
develops in the stone. The umber hulk can peer 
through these and see what's happening on the other 
side of the w r all. Tf another creature ventures too close, 
the umber hulk bursts through the wall and attacks. 

The monster spends most of its time watching the 
skum w'orking in area 3, but these creatures know the 
umber hulk is lurking nearby and stay well aw r ay 
from the west wall. 

If it detects the party before being spotted itself, it 


44 







runs up one of its tunnels and waits for the group. 
When the PCs walk by a crack, it bursts out and 
attacks. 

The PCs have the same chance to find the cracks as 
they have to locate a secret door. They can burst 
though a crack themselves (treat as a locked or 
barred door), but this action has a 50% chance to trig 
ger a cave-in (see the notes in the umber hulk's 
statistics). 

DM Note: The stonework in these areas is per 
fectly safe if the PCs don't start knocking holes in the 
walls. Characters who check for unsafe stonework 
find nothing unless the player whose character is 
making the check specifically asks what might hap 
pen if the PCs break through the wall. If a player 
asks the right question, roll the check; if it succeeds, 
tell the players there is a 50% chance of a cave-in if 
the characters break through the wall. 

The tunnel leading to the south empties into a tan 
gled maze of crooked tunnels. No map of the maze is 
provided. If the PCs venture in here, they are certain 
to lose their way unless they have a sure way to 
determine direction (such as the direction sense pro 
ficiency, racial ability, or the first segment of the Rod, 
which steadily indicates east), or unless they take 
some sensible precaution to remember the way out. 
Marking the path usually works fine, as there aren't 
any wandering monsters to erase or alter the marks. 
The skum avoid the umber hulk tunnels. If the party 
has not killed the umber hulk, however, it follows 
them into the tunnels, erases the marks, and attacks. 

If the PCs don't take precautions and get lost in the 
maze, they must make an Intelligence check (use the 
highest score in the party) at one-half chance to find 
their way out. They can attempt the roll every four 
hours. If any of the rolls succeed, the party finds its 
way out of the maze in ld4 hours. 

If the characters spend at least an hour in the maze 
(even if they are lost), they find a den where the 
umber hulk keeps its treasure. Inside, the party finds a 
mangled corpse (an unfinished meal), a pile of shred 
ded garments and broken equipment, 7 base 10 gp 
gems, 2 base 50 gp gems, 4 base 100 gp gems, 6,000 ep, 
2 potions of water breathing, a scroll with two airy water 
spells (each cast at 12 th level), a wand of polymorphing 
(9 charges), a necklace of adaptation, and a pair of 
gauntlets of fumbling (unlike standard gauntlets of fum 
bling, these appear to be gauntlets of swimming and 
climbing). The clothing and equipment is junk. If the 
PCs examine the electrum coins carefully, however, 
they discover a single copper disk with the command 



Spelunking 


word for the wand of polymorphing inscribed on it. 

Alert: Sounds of combat in the main chamber of 
area 2 warn the skum in area 3 to the party's presence. 

Umber Hulk: AC 2; MV 6, Br 1-6; HD 8+8; hp 56; 
THACO 11; #AT 3; Dmg 3d4/3d4/ldl0; SA cave in, 
confusion, surprise; SZ L (8' tall, 5' wide; ML elite (13); 
Int average (8); AL CE; XP 4,000; MM/352. 

Notes: Burrowing movement varies with hardness 
of material. Can burrow at a speed of 6 through soft 
earth or a speed of 1 through hard stone. Opponents 
suffer a -5 penalty to surprise rolls if the umber hulk 
bursts out of stone to attack. 

Gaze causes confusion. 

If reduced to 30 hit points or less, will cause a 
cave-in in addition to normal attacks. There is a 25% 
chance each round that a cave-in occurs. A cave-in 
collapses 20 feet of tunnel or a section of a chamber 
20 feet square. A cave-in has no effect on the umber 
hulk, but characters within the area suffer 4dl0 
points of damage (save vs. breath weapon for half). A 
successful save means the character was hit by 
falling rock, but was not buried. Failure means the 
character is buried under 2 or 3 feet of loose rocks 
and must be rescued. Buried characters begin to suf 
focate after 2d4 rounds (see PHB, Chapter 14). Dig 
ging a character free requires 4d4 rounds of work 
(3d4 rounds if a character with the mining or engi 
neering proficiency is present to direct the work). 

3. Mushroom Caverns 

The air in this cavern reeks like a barnyard on a hot 
day, though the air is cool and damp, the floor is 
covered with a spongy carpet of filth. A hodge 
podge of mushrooms grow in the muck. There are 
normal specimens a few inches high and giant vari 
eties as tall as a halfling. 

Tichthys's servants work here, harvesting, water 
ing, and fertilizing the mushrooms. A successful hear 
noise roll made anywhere within 60 feet of the cham 
ber reveals the chopping sounds they make (assum 
ing they are still at work). 

Since the umber hulk's arrival, a team of skum 
armed with implements that resemble pruning hooks 
do the work. This particular cavern is home to a sev 
eral varieties of fungus that smell like rotten meat. 

The crayfish in areas 18, 19, and 22 are especially 
fond of these. 


The pool of water in the southern area is only 4 
feet deep, and otherwise empty. The skum use it to 
keep themselves from drying out. While harvesting, 
a pair of skum will walk among the skum with a 
bucket and ladle wetting skins. 

When alerted by noise elsewhere, the skum move to 
the east side of the cavern and hide. They lie low and 
see what develops. When the PCs enter the cavern, 
two of the skum attack frontally while the remainder 
circle around and attack them from the flanks and rear. 
The skum do not pursue the PCs out of this chamber. 

Read or paraphrase the following when the skum 
finally attack: 

Several pairs of squat humanoids with fish-like 
tails and vacant eyes emerge from the mushroom 
patch and advance toward you. They have slimy 
looking, gray skin, and they are armed with some 
kind of crude polearm. 

The party can easily defeat the eight skum work 
ing here (two in each chamber). If the characters 
examine the slain skum's bodies, they find that their 
skin is very slimy. 

If the PCs take any prisoners, they can learn quite 
a bit. The skum depend on their limited telepathic 
abilities to communicate and are otherwise mute. 

Ihe PCs cannot talk to them without a tongues or 
speak with monsters spell. The skum know nothing of 
the Rod but will readily tell what they know about 
the complex if the PCs will wet their dry skins: 

• The skum harvest the mushrooms to feed them 
selves, the masters, and the master's pets. 

• The masters are huge fish with long, grasping ten 
tacles. The masters can hurt with only a thought. 
There is a great master and a little master. 

• The little master can be found by going down the 
long tunnel and then going flat, not farther down, past 
the other farm, and dowm another long tunnel past the 
rope monster and through the chamber of the little 
guardians. The great master lives a long swim farther 
beyond the pool w r here the little master dwells. 

The foregoing is a rough description of a trip 
through level A, then through level 2, then through 
level B to level 3, and finally to level 4, passing 
through areas 4, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, and 18 to area 19. 



the lead while the other hangs back to cast spells. 

If they have time to prepare, the driders cast spell 
immunity on themselves and become immune to 
Evard's black tentacles spells. When using spells in com 
bat, they begin by casting heat metal on characters in 
metal armor, then bestow curse, followed by faeriefire. 
Thereafter, they use their remaining spells to best effect. 

Alert: The drider which leaves for area 6 alerts the 
drider leader there, and both return quickly, one from 
the east and one from the north in an effort to flank 
the party (see area 6 for their plan of attack). With 
them they bring the watch spiders from areas 6 and 7. 

Drider Clerics (Elf, Drow) (3): AC 3; MV 12; HD 

6+6; hp 42 each; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long 
sword) or ld4 (bite); SA poisonous bite, spell-like 
abilities; MR 15%; SZ L (9' tall); ML elite 14; Int high 
(14); AL CE; XP 5,000 each; MM/113. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities as 7th level casters- clair 
voyance, dancing lights, darkness, detect lie, detect magic, 
dispel magic, faerie fire, know alignment, levitate, and 
suggestion. All are usable once a day. 

Bite causes opponent to save vs. poison at a -2 
penalty or be paralyzed for ld2 turns (onset imme 
diate). 

Spells (3/3/2/1): 1st- command (x2), cure light 
wounds; 2nd- heat metal, hold person (x2); 3rd- bestow 
curse, meld into stone; 4th- spell immunity. 

Special Equipment: Each has a short bow and 20 
arrows; collectively they have 19 pp, 2 base 10 gp 
gems, 30 base 50 gp gems, and 1 base 100 gp gem. 

6. The Hunter Awaits 

The drider leader mentioned in area 5 is here, wait 
ing for some prey to come along. It has a detect invisi 
bility spell running when the PCs arrive. Two watch 
spiders accompany it, one on the ceiling and one on 
the floor. The drider hopes to ambush one of 
Tichthys's servants, but the PCs will do nicely, or so 
the drider thinks. 

If a fight develops in area 5, the leader's tactics 
depend on whether a drider came from area 5 to give 
warning. If so, the leader sends the drider around to 
the north and west to collect the four watch spiders 
from area 7 and hit the foe from behind. It then 
immediately moves west around the bend in the cor 
ridor and signals the driders in area 5 to see if they 
have cast their spell immunity spells. If they have, and 
there are no watch spiders attacking the enemy, the 
leader casts Evard's black tentacles into the melee, then 


begins casting further spells as noted above. 

If it was not warned by a drider from area 5, it 
casts mirror image on itself and circles north, gather 
ing the watch spiders and attacking from the rear. 

If an opponent moves into the room from the north, 
the watch spider on the ceiling drops down and 
attacks from behind. The drider keeps watch over the 
intersection. If it sees light or creatures in the intersec 
tion, or hears combat in area 7, it sends one of the 
watch spiders (the one on the floor) to area 5. The 
driders in area 5 take the watch spider's arrival as a 
signal the game is afoot. Two of the driders there come 
to area 6 to join the fight, and the third circles north, 
collecting the spiders in area 7 and striking the foes 
from behind. Meanwhile, it casts mirror image on itself, 
then opens the fight with Melfs minute meteors, fol 
lowed by magic missile. The leader holds its ground 
until the driders from area 5 arrive. 

No matter how it begins the fight, the leader 
retreats around a corner and casts fire shield (cold 
flames) on itself if the party brings down its mirror 
image spell. Once fire shield is running, the leader 
moves back into view and casts taunt. Thereafter it 
uses its spells as well as it can. 

If pressed, the drider leader retreats to area 6a. 

Drider Mage (Elf, Drow): AC 3; MV 12; HD 6+6; 
hp 44; THACO 13 (11 with long sword +2); #AT 1; Dmg 
ld8+2 ( long sword +2) or ld4 (bite); SA poisonous 
bite, spell-like abilities; MR 15%; SZ L (9' tall); ML 
elite 14; Int high (14); AL CE; XP 3,000; MM/112. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities as 8th level caster- danc- 
ing lights, darkness, detect magic, faerie fire, know align 
ment, and levitate. All are usable once a day. 

Bite causes opponent to save vs. poison at a -2 
penalty or be paralyzed for ld2 turns (onset immediate). 

Sword does not radiate magic. It decays and 
becomes useless in 2d6 days if exposed to sunlight or 
ld20+30 days if protected from sunlight. 

Spells (4/3/3/2): 1st- magic missile (x3), taunt; 2nd- 
detect invisibility, invisibility, mirror image; 3rd- Melfs 
minute meteors, slow, ivater breathing; 4th- Evard's 
black tentacles, fire shield. 

Special Equipment: Drow long sword +2, ring of spell 
storing (alter self, darkness, gaze reflection, read magic, 
Tenser's floating disc, all cast at 8th level), 9 pp, 1 base 
10 gp gem, 1 base 50 gp gem, 1 base 100 gp gem, 1 
base 500 gp gem. 

Watch Spiders (Spider, Huge) (2): AC 6; MV 18; 

HD 2+2; hp 11 each; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA 



Spelunking 


vengeance if the party doesn't give them a treat 
within three rounds, or they will join combat imme 
diately if the PCs attack them. 

Phase Spiders (Spider) (7): AC 7; MV 6, Wb 15; 

HD 5+5; hp 30 each; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA 
poison, phasing; SZ H (14' diameter); ML champion 
(15); Int low (7); AL N; XP 1,400 each; MM/326. 

Notes: Phasing shifts the spider from the Ethereal 
plane to the Prime Material plane and back again in 
one round. The spider has a -3 bonus to initiative 
rolls, and if it wins initiative by 4 or more its oppo 
nents cannot return the attack. When fighting on the 
Ethereal Plane, the initiative bonus drops to -1 and 
opponents can always strike back. 

The spider's bite causes opponents to save vs. poi 
son with a -2 penalty or die (immediate onset time). 

While the PCs are dealing with the phase spiders, 
they see what appears to be another such creature 
lurking in the distance (at the maximum range of 
their vision). It does not attack; it just seems to be 
observing. When the party defeats the phase spiders, 
the watcher disappears. This "phase spider" is actu 
ally Naltecatl, a couatl who has been observing the 
drow in the area. It chooses the form of a phase spi 
der because the drow typically don't attack those 
creatures. When the PCs attack the real phase spi 
ders, Naltecatl knows they are no friends of the 
drow. Upon the PCs' victory, the couatl zips off to the 
Ethereal Plane, assumes the form of a (surface) elf, 
and returns to speak to the PCs. If the PCs attack 
Naltecatl, it assumes its true form (regaining ldl2 hit 
points in the process) and telepathically berates the 
PCs for being fools. 

Naltecatl is curious about what the party is doing 
down here. If Arquestan sent the PCs on this adven 
ture, Naltecatl knows who they are; the couatl is the 
friend Arquestan mentioned (see Book III). Naltecatl 
can impart any or all of the following to the PCs: 

• A quarter mile beyond this point, the passage splits 
up into a maze of tunnels infested with driders and 
renegade drow. Patrols from a drow city nearby fre 
quent the area, too. The drow city is perhaps 15 miles 
away as the couatl flies and no telling how far away 
for people on foot. 

• The drow are not foolish enough to play around 
with lawful artifacts such as the Rod. 


• If the PCs came down here on any other errand 
except fighting lots of drow, they'd better turn back. 

Naltecatl is not willing to accompany the PCs; nor 
is it willing to let them proceed, as it fears they will 
cause the drow to become more alert and wary of 
intruders, which would make spying harder. If the 
PCs persist, the couatl casts time stop, then teleports 
the lot back to the surface. 

Naltecatl (Couatl): AC 5; MV 6, FI 18 (A); HD 9; hp 
51; THACO 11; #AT 2; Dmg Id3/2d4 (bite/constric 
tion); SA poison, spells as a 5th level wizard, psionic 
abilities; SD etherealness; SZ L (12' long); ML elite 
(14); Int genius (18); AL LG; XP nil; MM/46. 

Notes: Bite causes a save vs. poison or die (imme 
diate onset); if a constriction attack hits, the oppo 
nent automatically suffers damage each round there 
after until killed or freed. 

Spell-like abilities as an 18th level caster: polymorph 
self, detect good/evil, detect magic, invisibility, and ESP, all 
usable at will. Naltecatl can render itself and up to 450 
pounds of additional material ethereal whenever it 
wishes. See the Monstrous Manual Tome for details 
on psionic powers. If your campaign does not use 
psionics, Naltecatl has the following additional spell 
like powers instead: telepathy at will as if wearing a 
helm of telepathy (but Naltecatl does not have the helm's 
suggestion power), teleport (at will), and time stop (once 
a day). These powers also function at 18th level. 

Personality: Inquisitive, judgmental. 

Spells (4/2/1): 1st- color spray, grease, magic missile, 
shield; 2nd- detect invisibility, fog cloud; 3rd- lightning 
bolt. 

5. Raiders 

A particularly charismatic and forceful drider has 
gathered a small raiding force of driders and watch 
spiders and led them from the underdark through 
area 4 to this chamber. Three of the driders wait qui 
etly in this chamber, keeping watch on the passage to 
the northwest. They notice any creatures (except 
invisible ones) entering the intersection at the end of 
the passage. If the party brings a light source into 
area 4, the guardians see that before the party actu 
ally enters the intersection. 

When they notice anything, one drider races to 
area 6 and the other two hide as best they can, hop 
ing to ambush the PCs as they enter the chamber. 
When fighting in a 5-foot passage, one drider takes 






Spelunking! itle 


The skum have never been past area 19 in their 
lives and know nothing about what lies beyond. 

They don't remember ever seeing the great master. 
They don't know about the spiders and driders lurk 
ing near area 7. The "rope monster" is the cave fisher 
in area 13a; the skum are quite impressed by it. The 
"little guardians" are the violet fungi in area 14. The 
skum don't understand why they are dangerous. 
They only know that they look like the little master 
hiding inside a mushroom (their crude description of 
a violet fungi with its four tentacles). 

• If the PCs ask for details about the little guardians, 
the skum say that they never go into their chambers 
without visiting the wise women first. The wise 
women live next to the mud hole and rub people 
with a special mud that protects them from the little 
guardians (see area 11 for details). 

• After about five minutes of conversation, the skum 
abruptly stop speaking, as Tichthys has noticed and 
ordered them to stop. The skum tell the PCs no more, 
even if charmed or intimidated. 

Alert: Tichthys notes the PCs' entry into the com 
plex shortly after the skum notice them. The aboleth 
sends a telepathic message to all its servants warning 
them to be on the lookout. 

Skum (8): AC 7; MV 6, Sw 15; HD 2+2; hp 15 each; 
THACO 17 (16 with Strength bonus); #AT 3 or 1; Dmg 
Id6/ld6/2d8 (claw/claw/bite) or 2d4 + Strength 
bonus; SW -2 attack penalty when fighting on land, 
-4 saving throw penalty vs. enchantment/charm 
spells; SZ M (5' tall); ML steady (11); Tnt semi (3); AL 
LE;XP 175 each; MCA1/100. 

Notes: 60-foot infravision. Limited telepathy 
allows communication with aboleths and other skum 
within 30 yards. Skin dries out after 30 minutes away 
from water, inflicting 3d4 points of damage on the 
creature each turn until the skin is wetted again. 

Males have Strength 18 (+1 attacks, +2 damage). 
Females have Strength 18/50 (+1 attacks, +3 dam 
age). Half the group is male, the other half is female. 

Mushroom hooks can be used as polearms to allow 
melee attacks from the second rank for 2d4 points of 
damage. The usual skum penalty for attacking with a 
weapon (-2) does not apply. 

Special Equipment: Mushroom hooks (similar to 
pruning hooks), baskets of harvested mushrooms. 


Level A 

This area is about 150 feet below the surface. The 
first segment of the Rod indicates southeast and down. 

4. Passage to the Underdark 

a a a af py. . .... 

You have traversed perhaps 700 feet of twisting 
passage, plunging downward into the earth. 

Finally you reach a spot where the tunnel splits 
into a downward sloping passage to the south and 
a fairly level passage to the east. 

The south passage leads away from Tichthys's lair 
and into the underdark. If the PCs take this route, 
they walk for miles without meeting anything. If 
they have the first segment of the Rod, the characters 
can tell that they're getting off hack by checking the 
direction to the next piece. Near the intersection, the 
direction to the next piece is southeast. As the party 
moves down the passage, the direction gradually 
changes to east and up (the group is moving to the 
south and descending). Eventually the passage turns 
west and descends rapidly, taking the party directly 
away from the next piece of the Rod. 

If the PCs fail to notice that they are off track, or if 
they don't have the first segment of the Rod, run the 
following encounter: 

After almost five hours of marching, you finally 
emerge from the constricted tunnel into a broad 
avenue with a lofty ceiling. There is ample room to 
walk four abreast if you wish. You haven't the 
faintest idea where you are, other than deep below 
the surface of the earth. 

The passage is 20 feet wide and the ceiling is some 
50 feet above. 

If the PCs continue down the wide passage for 
another 30 minutes, they encounter a group of phase 
spiders. Occasional patrols of drow passing through 
this area are in the habit of appeasing these creatures 
with gifts of food, and the phase spiders expect the 
same from the party. They do not attack immediately, 
but they do get impatient, snapping their mandibles 
hungrily, if the PCs don't produce something tasty 
for them. Spiders prefer their food live, so the party 
will be hard pressed to come up with something the 
creatures like. The phase spiders attack with a 




Spelunking 


poison; SZ M (6' diameter); MI, average (8); lnt low 
(5); AL N; XP 2700 each; MM/326. 

Notes: Bite causes opponent to save vs. poison 
with a +1 bonus or be paralyzed for 2d4 turns (onset 
time ld2 rounds). 

6a. Sinkhole 


Level 2 

This level is about 200 feet below the surface; the 
passage connecting this level to level A is not flat, but 
does not appreciably rise or descend until the party 
reaches the natural staircases near area 8. The first 
segment of the Rod indicates southeast and down. 


Two watch spiders lie hidden in the depths of this 
hole. If retreating, the drider leader sends the spiders 
up the walls to harry the party while it casts invisibil 
ity and prepares to make its last stand. The rough 
walls in the sinkhole give the drider 50% cover (+4 
bonus to AC and saves). 

Watch Spiders (Spider, Huge) (2): AC 6; MV 18; 
HD 2+2; hp 11 each; THAC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA 
poison; SZ M (6' diameter); ML average (8); lnt low 
(5); AL N; XP 2700 each; MM/326. 

Notes: Bite causes opponent to save vs. poison 
with a +1 bonus or be paralyzed for 2d4 turns (onset 
time ld2 rounds). 

7. Sentries 

At these two points along the corridor, two watch 
spiders wait. One spider sits on the floor and looks 
one direction while the other spider clings to the ceil 
ing and watches the other way. They are sensitive to 
vibrations and have a chance to detect invisible crea 
tures who approach (see the description for the invis 
ibility spell in the PHB). 

If one pair of spiders is attacked, the other pair 
rushes quickly to the scene. The spider on the ceiling 
always tries to move past the enemy's front rank and 
attack an unarmored character. The have been trained 
to recognize spellcasters anci attack them in prefer 
ence to other targets. The w'atch spiders otherwise 
remain at their posts until a drider tells them to leave. 

Alert: The driders from areas 5 and 6 hear any 
conflict in this area, unless silenced, arriving within 
two rounds. 

Watch Spiders (Spider, Huge) (4): AC 6; MV 18; 
HD 2+2; hp 11 each; TII AC0 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA 
poison; SZ M (6' diameter); ML average (8); lnt low 
(5); AL N; XP 2700 each; MM/326. 

Notes: Bite causes opponents to save vs. poison 
with a +1 bonus or be paralyzed for 2d4 turns (onset 
time ld2 rounds). 


8. More Shriekers 

This chamber contains a pile of offal with a fairly 
strong odor. If the PCs are alert, they can smell it 
from 40 feet away; otherwise they don't notice until 
they enter the chamber and defeat the shriekers. 
Scouts sent ahead of the main party notice the stench. 

After negotiating a series of natural staircases that 
turn in almost a complete circle, you round yet 
another bend and find yourselves gazing into a 
tiny chamber filled with mushrooms as tall as 
barstools. The fungi are clustered around a pile of 
offal that smells like rotten fish. The stench turns 
your stomachs. The fungi quiver, seeming to flee 
from you in slow motion as they emit an all-too- 
familiar series of piercing shrieks. 

The shriekers are the alarm system for this level. 
Their shrieks are audible throughout the level. The 
skum have just dumped a fresh pile of trash in the 
chamber to make sure the shriekers don't leave the 
room. 

Alert: As before, the shriekers' cry alarms the local 
skum. In area 9, the skum hide and prepare an 
ambush. The skum in area 10 move into the hallways 
to the north and prepare missiles. In area 10a, two 
females stand guard while the swimming skum 
gather near the edge of the pool, ready to throw their 
darts from their watery concealment. Finally, the two 
skum in area 11 are now both awake. 

Shriekers (Fungi) (5): AC 7; MV 1; HD 3; hp 14 
each; THAC0 17; #AT 0; Dmg nil; SA shriek; SD 
shriek; SZ M (5' tall); ML steady (12); lnt non (0); AL 
N; XP 120 each; MM/121. 

Notes: Light within 30 feet or movement within 10 
feet causes a piercing shriek that is audible through 
out the complex. If any shrieker is attacked, they all 
shriek. 






9. Lower Mushroom Caverns 

These chambers are similar to area 3, with the 
same types of fungi. The eight skum (four in each 
chamber) working here are all males. If they hear the 
shriekers in area 8, the skum hide behind tall mush 
rooms and await the party's arrival. When the party 
enters one of the chambers, they charge, and the 
skum from the other chamber charge in one round 
later, hoping to hit the PCs in the flank or rear. 

If captured and questioned, the skum can give the 
PCs the same information the skum in area 3 had. 
Similarly, Tichthys ends the conversation after only a 
couple minutes. 

Alert: If combat persists beyond two rounds, one 
of the two guards from area 11 joins the melee, after 
confirming that her partner is awake. 

Skum (8): AC 7; MV 6, Sw 15; HD 2+2; hp 15 each; 
THACO 17 (16 with Strength bonus); #AT 3 or 1; Dmg 
Id6/ld6/2d8 (claw/claw/bite) or 2d4+2 (hook + 
Strength bonus); SW -2 attack penalty when fighting 
on land, -4 saving throw penalty vs. enchantment/ 
charm spells; SZ M (5' tall); ML steady (11); Int semi 
(3); AL LE; XP 175 each; MCA1/100. 

Notes: 60-foot infravision. Limited telepathy 
allows communication with aboleths and other skum 
within 30 yards. Skin dries out after 30 minutes away 
from water, inflicting 3d4 points of damage on the 
creature each turn until the skin is wetted again. 

Males have Strength 18 (+1 attacks, +2 damage). 

Mushroom hooks can be used as polearms to allow 
melee attacks from the second rank for 2d4 points of 
damage. The usual skum penalty for attacking with a 
weapon does not apply. 

Special Equipment: Mushroom hooks (similar to 
pruning hooks), baskets of harvested mushrooms. 

10. Skum Nursery 

This chamber has a sandy floor where the skum in 
the complex incubate their eggs. Currently, there are 
38 eggs buried in the sand. It is not obvious where 
the eggs are, or even that there is anything buried 
here. 

Two skum females are always on guard here, 
watching over the eggs. If they hear the shriekers in 
area 8, they take cover in the two openings to the 
north that lead to area 10a. They hunker down, gain 
ing 25% cover, and hurl their darts at anyone enter 
ing the chamber. If they cannot keep foes out of the 


nursery, they withdraw north, hoping to lure the 
enemy into the pool in area 10a. 

The two females are slightly more intelligent than 
the other skum in the complex. If questioned, they 
are clever enough to lie. They give the PCs pretty 
much the Same information the skum in areas 3 and 9 
gave, but they also say that the great master lives at 
the bottom of the sinkhole in area 16. The skum 
know this is a lie, but they do not know exactly 
where the great master is. The only time they have 
seen Tichthys, the aboleth was in area 19. No matter 
what the PCs do, they will not admit they are lying, 
nor will they tell the PCs about their eggs. 

The PCs can easily uncover a few eggs by rooting 
around in the sand. If the skum see the PCs uncover 
any eggs, they go berserk and attack fearlessly (no 
morale checks). If tied up or grappled, the skum bite 
their captors and attempt bend bars rolls to break 
free of their bonds. 

Alert: The 8 skum in area 9 automatically notice 
any combat in this area, and arrive in one round to 
attack, probably from the rear. If the eggs are threat 
ened, the guards telepathically call the 20 skum from 
area 10a, who leave their living quarters and attack 
fearlessly (no morale checks). 

Skum (2): AC 7; MV 6, Sw 15; HD 2+2; hp 15 each; 
THACO 17 (16 with Strength bonus); #AT 3; Dmg 
Id6/ld6/ld6 (claw/claw/bite) or ld3+3 (x3) (darts 
+ Strength bonus); SW -2 attack penalty when fight 
ing on land, -4 saving throw penalty vs. enchant 
ment/ charm spells; SZ M (5' tall); ML steady (11); Int 
low (7); AL LE; XP 175 each; MCA1/100. 

Notes: 60-foot infravision. Limited telepathy 
allows communication with aboleths and other skum 
within 30 yards. Skin dries out after 30 minutes away 
from water, inflicting 3d4 points of damage on the 
creature each turn until the skin is wetted again. 

Females have Strength 18/50 (+1 attacks, +3 dam 
age). 

Special Equipment: Nine darts each. 

10a. Skum Barracks 

Most of the skum in the complex eat and rest here. 
At the given time there are 20 adults (6 males and 14 
females) here, and 18 immature skum of both gen 
ders. One female stands guard at the location marked 
with an "X," and the remainder are in the pool. If 
attacked, the guard hurls three darts then dives into 
the pool. 




The pool is more than 70 feet deep, with nearly 
vertical sides. It has no furnishings. There are 136 
darts scattered along the bottom, where the skum can 
grab them quickly. 

If the shriekers gave the alarm, two females are at 
the location marked "X," and the rest of the adults 
wait underwater until the PCs arrive. The preferred 
tactic here is to rise out of the depths and hurl mis 
siles at intruders. The guards hurl three darts a 
round and the swimmers hurl one dart a round. The 
immature skum hide in the depths of the pool. 

After the initial missile attack, all the skum disap 
pear into the depths of the pool, hoping the PCs will 
follow. If they don't, the skum pick up darts from the 
bottom of the pool and rise to the surface to attack 
again. The skum are satisfied with driving the PCs 
away from the area; they do not pursue if the party 
leaves. If the PCs enter the water, the skum attack 
with fore claws, rear claws, and teeth; if they stay on 
land but come within reach, the creatures bite and 
claw. If several skum can reach one opponent, they 
try to drag him into the pool using their exceptional 
strength. 

If captured and questioned, the adult skum give 
the same information as the skum in area 3 do. 
Females with low intelligence lie about the great 


master's location, just as the females in area 10 did. 
The immature skum have no useful information for 
the party; they have never been beyond area 10. If 
there are no adult skum present, however, the imma 
ture ones can tell the party about the incubating eggs 
in area 10. (Adults telepathically shush the kids if 
they realize what's going on.) 

Skum (20): AC 7; MV 6, Sw 15; HD 2+2; hp 15 
each; THAC0 17 (16 with Strength bonus); #AT 5 or 3 
or 3 or 1; Dmg 2d8/ld6 (x2)/ld8 (x2) (bite, fore 
claws, rear claws, possible only when fighting in 
water) or 2d8/ld6 (x2) (bite and fore claws, when 
fighting on land) or ld3 + Strength bonus (x3) (darts) 
or ld3 + Strength bonus (dart, when in water); SW -2 
attack penalty when fighting on land, -4 saving 
throw penalty vs. enchantment/charm spells, only 
one dart attack if swimming; SZ M (5' tall); ML 
steady (11); Int semi-low (3-7); AL LE; XP 175 each; 
MCA1/100. 

Notes: 60-foot infravision. Limited telepathy 
allows communication with aboleths and other skum 
within 30 yards. Skin dries out after 30 minutes away 
from water, inflicting 3d4 points of damage on the 
creature each turn until the skin is wetted again. 

Males (6) have Strength 18 (+1 attacks, +2 dam- 









Spelunking 


age). Females (14) have Strength 18/50 (+1 attacks, 

+3 damage). Three females have low intelligence (7). 

Special Equipment: Guards begin the encounter 
with six darts each. 

11. Storage Chamber 

The trash heap in this room is exceedingly smelly, 
and the PCs can detect the odor from 20 feet away. 

This room serves as a storehouse and an observa 
tion post for watching area 12. It contains a pile of 
harvested mushrooms from areas 3 and 9 and an 
equally large pile of trash collected from throughout 
the complex. An untidy heap of baskets (for collect 
ing mushrooms), mushroom hooks, and darts rests in 
one corner. The heap contains 5 darts +3 gleaned 
from some adventurers who died trying to explore 
the complex. The residents have no idea the darts are 
special. 

Two particularly large female skum are here ail the 
time. One snoozes while the other keeps an eye on 
area 12 through the crack in the west wall while she 
chops hunks of mushrooms into smaller pieces. The 
sleeping skum needs one round to wake up. 

The skum live here permanently. They have a 
water trough next to the west entrance where they 
take turns sleeping. A barrel near the north entrance 
holds water that the working skum uses to keep her 
skin wet. 

If the skum sees anything except another skum 
moving through area 12, the one on duty exits north 
and begins hurling darts while the other grabs a pike 
and stands at the crack, ready to stab anyone who 
comes close enough to attack (see area 12). 

The skum keep six jars of ointment under the trash 
pile. Three of the jars are a magical concoction, oint 
ment of protection from fungi, that the wizard from area 
17 has prepared from the various mushrooms grow 
ing in the complex. (This is the "mud" the skum in 
area 3 mentioned.) The ointment protects creatures 
wearing it from special attacks of fungoid monsters 
for a short time; see Book III for details. The 
denizens of the complex use the ointment to protect 
themselves from the violet fungus in area 14. Tire 
skum keep a supply here so they can deliver food to 
level 3. The other three jars contain nonmagical type 
N contact poison. (If this is smeared on the skin, the 
recipient must successfully save vs. poison or die. 
Even if the saving throw succeeds, the victim suffers 
25 points of damage. Onset time is one round.) 
Tichthys ordered the poison kept here to help frus 


trate intruders' attempts to use the ointment. All six 
jars look the same. The skum can tell the contents 
apart by smell. 

If the PCs take the skum prisoner, they eagerly 
offer the contact poison, after giving each jar a good 
sniff. 

If the characters ask about the ointment or press 
for details about the "little guardians," the skum tell 
them that a slave who lives near the "rock mine" 
makes the ointment to protect the great master's ser 
vants from the little guardians. They don't know 
how the slave makes the ointment, just that it 
requires the mushrooms they gather. If the party asks 
which mushrooms, the skum say "all of them." 

The "rock mine" is the skum's term for area 15, the 
quarry. 

If questioned about other things, the skum give the 
same information that the skum in areas 3 and 9 give, 
along with the false assertion that the great master 
lives in area 16 (see area 10 for details about the false 
hood). 

Alert: If a battle goes on for more than two 
rounds, the skum from area 9 run to this area and 
attack. 

Skum (2): AC 7; MV 6, Sw' 15; HD 2+2; hp 18 each; 
THACO 17 (16 with Strength bonus); #AT 3 or 3 or 1; 
Dmg Id6/ld6/2d8 (claw/claw/bite) or ld3+3 (x3) 
(dart + Strength bonus) or ld6+3 (pike + Strength 
bonus); SW -2 attack penalty when fighting on land, 
-4 saving throw penalty vs. enchantment/charm 
spells; SZ M (5' tall); ML steady (11); Int low (7); AL 
LE; XP 175 each; MCA1/100. 

Motes: 60-foot infravision. Limited telepathy 
allows communication with aboleths and other skum 
within 30 yards. Skin dries out after 30 minutes away 
from water, inflicting 3d4 points of damage on the 
creature each turn until the skin is wetted again. 

Pike allows melee attacks from the second rank. 
The usual -2 penalty for skum attacking with 
weapons does not apply. 

12. Mud Hole 

A short, slick natural staircase leads down a few- 
scant feet into a chamber with a high ceiling hung 
with dozens of stalactites. Some are the size of 
small trees, but most are smaller, about the size of a 
man's forearm. Water dripping from the stalactites 
falls into a murky pool that fills the entire chamber. 


S3 



The ceiling rises 60 feet up. The stalactites on the 
ceiling are harmless, though many PCs will be wary 
of them. The real danger this room presents is in the 
water, where 16 giant leeches live. Tichthys has spe 
cially bred them for toughness. The leeches prefer 
warm-blooded prey and ignore the skum when they 
move through the water. The pool is only 2 feet 
deep. 

If PCs wade through the water, however, the 
leeches attack their legs, unseen beneath the dirty 
water. The leeches gain a +2 for a rear attack and the 
character gains no benefits from a shield or Dexterity. 

DM Note: The leeches' victims have little chance 
to notice the attack (see below). 

Alert: The skum in area 11 keep watch over this 
chamber. When the PCs enter, one skum appears at 
the north entrance and hurls darts at the PCs while 
the other pokes at them through the crack in the east 
wall with a pike. The pike can reach the four shaded 
squares. The skum hurling darts has 25% cover; the 
one with the pike has 90% cover and can be attacked 
only with spells or long piercing weapons such as 
spears. Further, if a battle in this area lasts more than 
two rounds, the skum from area 9 run to this area 
and attack. 

Giant Leeches (Leech) (16): AC 9; MV 3, Sw 3; HD 
4; hp 20 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; SA blood 
drain, disease; SZ S (2' long); ML unsteady (7); Int 
non (0); AL N; XP 270 each; MM/219. 

Notes: If a leech scores a hit, it attaches itself and 
drains blood for four points of damage each round. 
There is only a 1% chance that the victim knows he 
has been bitten (anesthetic saliva). The leech remains 
attached for 10 rounds or until removed. The victim 
automatically notices the leeches if he loses 50% or 
more of his original hit points. 

There is a 50% chance that anyone bitten will 
develop a disease that is fatal in ld4+l weeks unless 
cured. The victim shows no symptoms until the final 
week, when he suffers a fever that reduces Strength 
and Dexterity by two points each. Lost points return 
when the disease is cured. 

Level B 

This level is about 250 feet below the surface. The 
first segment of the Rod indicates southeast and 
down. The underground river flowing through this 
level has no connection with any of the other levels. 


13. Sinkholes 

These chambers have ceilings 5 or 6 feet high and 
no floors to speak of-just gaping holes. The holes 
have sloping sides, and Tichthys has ordered his ser 
vants to cut crude steps in the slopes. Rogues, skum, 
and characters with the mountaineering proficiency 
can manage them without trouble. Other characters 
using the stairs must make a successful Dexterity 
check or slip and fall to the bottom after moving 
Id4xl0 feet. A rope or similar precaution eliminates 
the chance for a fall. The holes are about 100 feet 
deep and open into an underground river. 

The river's current is swift but not unmanageable. 
Freefloating characters or objects are pushed along at 
a rate of 90 feet per round. 

The river is 5 feet wide and about 12 feet deep. 
Beyond the sinkholes the water fills the channel, leav 
ing no air for breathing. The skum use the river to 
avoid the cave fisher at area 13a. The PCs can do the 
same if they can swim. If the PCs enter the river and 
do not exit at the other sinkhole on this level, they can 
follow the river west (downstream) for several miles 
until it emerges from a hillside at the surface (the 
swimmer drowns without the power to breathe water). 
If they follow' it upstream (east), the river goes about a 
quarter mile until the channel breaks up into dozens of 
branches too small for the humanoids to traverse. 

13a. Cave Fisher 

The passage ends in a sheer drop. The bottom is 
beyond the range of your light, but you can hear 
water gurgling in the depths. The chasm stretches 
a good dagger toss to your left and right, but the 
w'alls arc sheer, with no ledges that would allow 
you to circle it. Only 15 or 20 feet ahead and to 
your left, you spy a cave opening with another 
passage leading away to the north. The gap is 
almost narrow' enough to jump. 

The front of Card 1 shows what this area looks like 
to the PCs. Card 6 has a tactical map of the area. 

The chasm is about 100 feet deep. The water the 
characters hear is the river that connects the sinkholes 
(area 13). The walls are rough, but slightly slippery. A 
rogue or mountaineer could climb dowm into the 
chasm, sw'im the river (w'hich is only 5 feet w'ide), and 
climb back up the other side. Four climb walls rolls 
are necessary, two for each wall. If the character falls. 



Spelunking 


he suffers the appropriate damage for the distance 
fallen and is swept downstream, where he drowns 
unless he can breathe water or is swiftly rescued. 

The gap between the two passages is only about 20 
feet wide-a long jump for a character, especially an 
encumbered one, without magical assistance. Both 
passages in this area have smooth walls that don't 
offer any rough spots for a grapple to catch. 

To complicate matters, a cave fisher has made its 
lair in a niche in the cavern wall (marked with an 
"X" on the map). A spur of rock blocks it from view. 
Tichthys keeps it content, regularly sending slaves 
and skum to "feed" the cave fisher. 

The creature has laid its trap line from its niche to 
the north passage. Anyone jumping or flying across 
the chasm automatically becomes entangled in the 
line when he lands. If a character reaches the opening 
by climbing, secretly roll a saving throw vs. paralyza- 
tion; if it succeeds, the PC is not trapped (but still 
does not notice the fisher's line), and the cave fisher 
reels in the line and shoots it at the character the fol 
lowing round. 

The cave fisher is completely hidden from charac 
ters standing in the western cave opening and has 
25% cover against attacks from characters standing in 
the north cave opening. 

Even if the PCs learned about the cave fisher from 
the skum in the complex, without magical aid they 
cannot detect the cave fisher or its trap line before it 
attacks. When standing in the west cave opening they 
are too far away from the trap line to see it nonmagi- 
cally and the monster is hidden behind the rocks. 

Cave Fisher: AC 4; MV 1; HD 3; hp 18; THACO 17 
(15 when shooting filament); #AT 2; Dmg 2d4/2d4; 
SA adhesive filament; SZ M (7' long); ML steady 11); 
Int semi (3); AL N; XP 175; MM/40. 

Notes: Can move freely along vertical surfaces. 
Adhesive trap line is difficult to detect (20% chance 
at a distance of 10' or less) without a detect invisibility 
or detect snares and pits spell. If a creature becomes 
attached to the strand the cave fisher reels him in 
with 18/00 Strength at a rate of 15 feet a round. The 
strand can be cut only by a +1 or better type S 
weapon. The adhesive can be dissolved only by alco 
hol (hard liquor, brandy, or cave fisher blood-wine 
is insufficient). If no one tangles in the line, the cave 
fisher can reel it in and shoot the line up to 300' with 
a THACO of 15. When hauling in prey, the creature 
glues itself in place using its adhesive; it is then 
impossible for the PCs to dislodge it from its perch. 


Level 3 

This level is about 300 feet below the surface. The 
first segment of the Rod indicates south and down. 

14. Little Guardians 

Read the following before the characters enter area 
14: 

After a long march through another seemingly 
endless tunnel, you see a fairly spacious cavern 
opening up ahead; the area seems faintly lit. Some 
where in the distance you hear the tap-tap-tap of 
hammers chipping away at stone, and your nos 
trils catch the stench of rotting trash. 

The tapping sound is a product of the slaves work 
ing in area 15. The smell originates from the fresh 
load of offal the skum have dumped in area 14 for 
the shriekers and violet fungi. The light is from the 
oil lamps the quarry slaves are using to provide light 
for their work. The light is too weak to disturb the 
shriekers in area 14, but strong enough to let the 
party see a little bit. 

The PCs are about 80 feet from area 14 when they 
see, hear, and smell the things ahead of them. If they 
douse their lights, they can sneak right into area 14 
before being noticed. 

The area is thick with trash and normal mush 
rooms. The shriekers detect any movement in the 
chamber, even if the characters are invisible and 
silent. However, they won't notice a character who is 
flying and invisible. 

If the shriekers give the alarm, the violet fungi 
close in on the intruder and flail away with their ten 
tacles. All the detritus in the chamber allows them to 
attack invisible characters without penalty. However, 
if the shriekers don't give the alarm, the violet fungi 
don't attack. If the PCs charge into the room, they 
can surprise the shriekers. A silence spell will prevent 
the alarm from spreading, but the party still has to 
deal with the violet fungi. 

Alert: The shrieker's cry sets off events in the sur 
rounding areas. In area 15, the skum drive their 
slaves into the passages to the east of the chamber 
and then move to block the south entrance, visible to 
those in area 14. Meanwhile, in area 17, the drow 
mage begins a series of actions when hearing the 
sound of invaders. First, he hides until the kuo-toa 


Spelunking 


thief from area 18 arrives to check on him. Istovahn 
kills it, takes its potion of invisibility, shuts the door, 
and then burns his notes containing information on 
the formula for the fungoid ointment. His actions 
take a total of five rounds from the shrieker's cry to 
complete, and thus the PCs could interrupt the 
process. Back in area 18, the kuo-toa monitor there 
hides near the south pool and takes a sip from his 
own potion of invisibility. Finally, in area 19, the 
young aboleth takes a position hiding behind the 
island. 

Shriekers (Fungi) (5): AC 7; MV 1; HD 3; hp 14 
each; THACO 17; #AT 0; Dmg nil; SA shriek; SD 
shriek; SZ M (5' tall); ML steady (12); Int non (0); AL 
N; XP 120 each; MM/120. 

Notes: Light within 30 feet or movement within 10 
feet causes a piercing shriek that is audible through 
out the complex. If any shrieker is attacked, they all 
shriek. 

Violet Fungi (Fungi) (4): AC 7; MV 1; HD 3; hp 14 
each; THACO 17; #AT 4; Dmg rot; SA rot; SD shriek; 
SZ M (5' tall); ML steady (12); Int non (0); AL N; XP 
175 each; MM/120. 

Notes: Indistinguishable from shriekers until they 
attack. Attacks with four tentacles; a hit requires a 
save vs. poison. Failure causes flesh to rot away, 
destroying the area touched in one round and killing 
the victim in four rounds. A cure disease spell halts 
the rot, but must be applied before a full round 
elapses to save the afflicted part. If a PC is hit, roll 
ldl2 to determine which area of the body is affected: 
l=head, 2-3= weapon (or right) arm, 4-5=shield (or 
left) arm, 6=chest, 7-8=abdomen, 9-10= left leg, 11- 
12=right leg. If a limb rots, it drops off. Characters 
who lose an arm lose the use of the arm, but are not 
otherwise affected. Loss of one or two legs reduces 
movement to a crawl (movement rate of 1) without a 
crutch. The character loses six points of Dexterity 
until the limb is replaced. If the head rots, the char 
acter is blinded (-4 penalty to attack rolls and oppo 
nents gain a +4 bonus to attack rolls) until he 
receives a heal or regeneration spell (cure blindness or 
deafness is ineffective) and must pass a system shock 
check or die. If the character's chest or abdomen 
rots, he loses 2 points of Constitution and Strength 
and must pass a system shock check or die. Ability 
score losses persist until the character receives a heal 
or regeneration spell. 


15. Quarry 

Two dozen slaves (13 level 0 humans and 11 bug 
bears of mixed gender) are busy quarrying stone 
under the direction of four skum females. A work 
gang of 10 skum males are hauling the quarried 
stone to area 16. The gang hauls a load of freshly cut 
blocks out of here about every 30 minutes. The skum 
all wear an ointment that protects them from the vio 
let fungi (see area 17 for details). 

The overseers quickly move to defend the chamber 
when the shriekers raise the alarm, moving the 
slaves east and marshalling the troops south. 

If attacked, the skum in this area will not retreat or 
flee. The slaves cower in the east passage during the 
fight and won't emerge unless the PCs drag them. If the 
PCs burst into the chamber unexpectedly, the slaves 
drop their tools and cower where they stand (most of 
them are working in the west half of the chamber). 

If questioned, the skum say nothing; they are too 
afraid of the aboleth in area 19 and the kuo toa in 
area 18. The slaves are a bit more talkative, but only 
if the PCs are calm and gentle. Any sign of anger or 
the slightest hint of violence sets them quaking in 
their boots. A little food would go a long way toward 
calming them (the bugbears will feast on the skum if 
allowed). The slaves can relate the following: 

• Most of the slaves were taken in raids by ores, 
drow, or other humanoids. A huge fish man, even 
meaner and uglier than the overseers and workers, 
bought them from their captors and brought them to 
work here. 

• They do nothing but cut stone (a lot), sleep (not 
much), and eat (very little). They sleep right in the 
quarry here when not working. 

• Fish men workers bring a pile of mushrooms about 
once a week. The overseers dole it out slowly. 

• Fish men workers haul the stone off to the south. 
None of the slaves know where the stone goes. 

• From time to time, a big fish with tentacles comes 
to the quarry. The fish men seem to fear it. It selects a 
slave, and the fish men lead him away. The slave 
never returns. 

• The slaves have never heard the fish men speak. 
Nor have they ever felt the urge to run away or fight 





Spelunking 


the fish men. They would like to rest now, but they 
don't think running away would be a good idea. 

The slaves are all under the influence of Tichthys's 
enslavement power. They will not agree to escape or 
fight while the aboleth lives, though the PCs can 
drag them bodily out of the complex. The "big fish" 
the slaves mentioned is the immature aboleth from 
area 19. It comes here to select worn out slaves to 
appease the umber hulk from area 2 and the cave 
fisher from area 13a. 

Alert: If the shriekers failed to give an alarm, 
sounds of combat here will have the similar results to 
the Alert described in area 14, above. 

Skum Overseers (4): AC 7; MV 6, Sw 15; HD 2+2; 
hp 18 each; THACO 17 (16 with Strength bonus); #AT 
3; Dmg Id6/ld6/2d8 (claw/claw/bite) or ld3+3 (x3) 
(dart plus Strength bonus); SW -2 attack penalty 
when fighting on land, -4 saving throw penalty vs. 
enchantment/charm spells; SZ M (5' tall); ML steady 
(11); Int low (7); AL LE; XP 175 each; MCA1/100. 

Notes: 60-foot infravision. Limited telepathy 
allows communication with aboleths and other skum 
within 30 yards. Skin dries out after 30 minutes away 
from water, inflicting 3d4 points of damage on the 
creature each turn until the skin is wetted again. 

Special Equipment: Whips, one jar of ointment of pro 
tection from fungi each. 

Skum Workers (10): AC 7; MV 6, Sw 15; HD 2+2; hp 
18 each; THACO 17 (16 with Strength bonus); #AT 3; 
Dmg Id6/ld6/2d8 (claw/claw/bite); SW -2 attack 
penalty when fighting on land, -4 saving throw penalty 
vs. enchantment/charm spells; SZ M (5' tall); ML 
steady (11); Int low (7); AL LE; XP 175 each; MCA1/100. 

Notes: 60-foot infravision. Limited telepathy 
allows communication with aboleths and other skum 
within 30 yards. Skin dries out after 30 minutes away 
from water, inflicting 3d4 points of damage on the 
creature each turn until the skin is wetted again. 

16. Delivery Chute 

Cut stone taken from area 15 is carried here and 
dumped down the sinkhole, where it falls some 300 
feet into a flooded cave that is itself several hundred 
feet deep. About once a day, an aboleth and 36 
female skum come to collect the stone and haul it 
into the depths of the underdark. There, a group of 
aboleth are building a city. 


In the meantime, an eye of the deep keeps watch 
over the stone. If the PCs begin exploring the flooded 
cave, the eye of the deep attacks, creating an illusion 
of a huge vodyanoi. The PCs who note the umber 
hulk's swift movement have good reason to disbe 
lieve it. 

If the PCs notice the eye lurking in the depths and 
attack, the eye drops the illusion and looses a blind 
ing flash and two hold effects from its eyes. It avoids 
melee. If reduced to 10 hit points or less, it creates the 
illusion of a cave-in and tries to escape. No sound 
accompanies the cave-in, but don't mention the 
inconsistency unless the PCs ask. Disbelief attempts 
against the cave-in automatically succeed. If not dis 
believed, the cave-in causes the characters to roll sav 
ing throws vs. breath weapon at -4. If the saving 
throws succeed, the characters escape the rocks. If 
the saving throws fails, the characters must roll sys 
tem shock checks. Failure results in death as the char 
acters are "crushed" beneath the rocks. Success 
means the characters faint for ld3 turns. Meanwhile, 
the eyes scoots in the other direction, escaping into 
the maze of tunnels leading from the cave. 

If the PCs explore the tunnels, they find nothing of 
interest. If they spend more than a few hours explor 
ing, the aboleth and its servants arrive and attack 
(use the statistics for Tichthys from area 26 and the 
female skum from area 10a). 

The construction site lies about 20 miles from the 
sinkhole (and about 40 miles from the drow city 
mentioned in the description for area 4). The actual 
path is a maze of submerged passages filled with 
cross currents and wandering aboleth with their 
skum attendants. Eventually the PCs get lost in the 
maze and find that they have circled back to the sink 
hole. 

Eye of the Deep (Beholder): AC 5; MV Sw 6; HD 

12; hp 65; THACO 9; #AT 3; Dmg 2d4/2d4/ld6; SA 
illusions, eye rays at will; SZ M (5' in diameter); ML 
champion (15); Int very (12); AL LE; XP 4,000; 
MM/25. 

Notes: Central eye produces a blinding light in a 
cone 5 feet at its start, 30 feet long, and 20 feet wide 
at the end. Victims caught in the cone must save vs. 
poison or be stunned for 2d4 rounds. A second save 
vs. spells must be made; failure results in blindness 
for two hours. Two eyes produce illusion (treat as a 
phantasmal force cast at 12th level) when used 
together. If used separately, one eye produces hold 
monster and the other produces hold person. 




Spelunking 


Illusory Vodyanoi {Umber Hulk): AC 2; MV 6, Sw In either case, the PCs have the normal chances to 

24 (illusory speed); HD 8+8; hp not applicable (caster find the secret door leading to this room. If they 
find 

decides when illusion "dies"); THACO 9 (illusory com- the door, they do not have to roll to get it open. 
Read or 

bat effectiveness); #AT 3; Dmg 3d4/3d4/ldl0; SW paraphrase the following if the PCs enter this chamber, 

damage inflicted is illusory; SZ L (8' tall, 5' wide; ML Adjust accordingly if the alarm has not been raised, 

elite (13); Int average (8); AL CE; XP Nil; MM/352. 

Notes: Illusory damage persists for a maximum 
ld3 turns. If a character is reduced to zero hit points 
or less by illusory damage, he falls unconscious and 
must pass a system shock roll. If the roll fails, the 
character dies. Otherwise the character falls uncon 
scious and reawakens after ld3 turns with all illusory 
damage healed (see PHB, Chapter 7). 

17. Laboratory 

Istovahn, a draw mage Tichthys captured a few 
years ago, calls this chamber home. Unlike the abo- 
ieth's other servants, Istovahn has not fallen under 
the sway of Tichthys's enslavement power. The abo- 
leth has used more primitive means to secure the 
mage's cooperation. 

lstovahn's main duty is to produce ointment of pro 
tection from fungi for use in the complex. Istovahn 
invented the ointment and now grudgingly processes 
batch after batch for his captor. He uses several vari 
eties of fungi from the complex to produce the oint- If the PCs look around, they will notice that under- 

ment. Currently, however, he has no materials stock- neath one of the workbenches lies the corpse of 
the 

piled. If left undisturbed, he could finish his current kuo-toa Istovahn killed (if he had time). If the PCs 

batch (five doses) in another week, but the PCs' pull out the body and examine it, they can tell it isn't 

arrival upsets the process. quite the same as the other fish men they have seen 

If the shriekers in area 14 give the alarm, Istovahn in the complex. This one is chubbier and has eyes 

can hear them, even through the secret door leading that bulge. There is also a sword laying on the floor 

into this room. I Ie has orders to go to area 19 if there is next to the bench. If the PCs ask Istovahn what 
hap- 

an attack, but he disobeys them. When he does not pened, the draw says that it is best to be careful 

arrive, one of the kuo-toa from area 18 runs to this about what one picks up and drinks in a laboratory, 

room to see what's going on. Istovahn kills the kuo-toa A careful look at Istovahn reveals that he is not 
so 

with his phantasmal killer spell, helps himself to the fel- old as he looked at first, but his time as a 
prisoner 

low's potion of invisibility, shuts the door, bums the has not left him hale and hearty, 

notes containing the formula for the ointment (he If the PCs attack, Istovahn tries to surrender, beg- 

doesn't want anyone else to have it) and awaits further ging them to have mercy on a one-handed old 
man. 

developments. If the PCs never visit this chamber, Isto- If the PCs want to talk, he's happy to converse, 
even 

vahn plans to walk calmly back to the drow city from if the they have been aggressive. Istovahn has the 
fol- 

which he came. If the PCs find him, Istovahn plays the lowing to offer in response to the PCs' 
observations 

role of the helpless victim (not too far from the truth) and questions. He plays the role of a broken old 
man 

and tries to escape when he gets the opportunity: to the hilt. He also tries to conceal his intelligence as 

If the PCs enter the level quietly, Tstovahn is busy best he can, attempting to mimic the Listlessness and 

working on his latest batch of ointment. He quickly fatigue that plagues the slaves in area 15. 

throws his notes on the nearest fire when they open 

the secret door, and the PCs will have to act quickly • "Yeah it's smoky in here, but the fires keep the 
damp- 

to save them. ness out. Dampness is really hard on the old joints." 


The secret door easily swings open to reveal a 
smoky chamber filled with cluttered workbenches. 
The air is thick with steam and acrid smoke. Glow 
ing coals give a ruddy cast to the haze. You can 
hear the soft mummer of pots left to simmer. 

A craggy old man wrapped in discolored rags is 
seated at a bench with his chin propped on the 
stump where his right hand should be. He has 
frizzy white hair that probably hasn't been combed 
in years and midnight blue skin. He stares list 
lessly at some liquid in a beaker. As he shifts his 
gaze to you, the liquid boils furiously, and spray of 
scalding foam shoots out over the bench. The man 
leaps to his feet, waving his stump and snatching 
the vessel off the coals with a pair of tongs held in 
his left hand. That done, the man scratches his 
nose and sneezes. He looks at you and says, "Shut 
the door! There seems to be a draft." 









• "I work for the masters like everybody else; I just 
use my head. The master tells me what to do, and I 
do it." 

• "I don't know what I'm making. I just do what I'm 
told." 

• "I was a wizard before I came here, but everybody 
knows it takes two free hands to cast spells." (He 
waves his stump.) 

• "I was living on the surface when a group of fish 
men came from a lake nearby and dragged me 
down here. The fish men cut off my hand so I could 
n't cast spells anymore, then eventually brought me 
here." 

• "Yeah, here's a whole batch of what I've been mak 
ing. I guess you can have it." 

• "I don't think running away is an option. I think 
I'll just stay right here." 

• "If you go out there, watch out for the big fish man. 
It's smarter and faster than the others." 


• "Watch out for the big fish, too. It can make you 
see what isn't there." 

Most of what Istovahn says are deceptions or out 
right lies. He's lying about not knowing what he's 
making. He invented the ointment. He's lying about 
not wanting to escape. He doesn't trust the PCs, 
however, and would rather that they left him behind 
while they go and fight his captors. 

He's also lying about being kidnapped from the 
surface. He was leading an expedition to gather 
mushrooms and Tichthys's servants caught them. 

The other drow died during their captivity. If the PCs 
notice that he is sensitive to light (something that 
drow who have been acclimated to life on the surface 
do not have to worry about), Istovahn explains that 
his long captivity underground has caused him to 
lose his resistance to light. 

If the PCs accept Istovahn's offered product, 
they're in for trouble. Istovahn makes contact poison 
too, and that's what he's offering the PCs. If they 
balk, he protests that he just made this batch of oint 
ment, and that the masters seem to think what he 
makes is really important for avoiding their 
guardians (a true statement, but highly misleading). 





Spelunking 


Istovahn is telling a partial truth about not being 
able to cast any spells. For months after losing his 
hand, he couldn't do any spellcasting. Now, how 
ever, he has learned to compensate. He has lost his 
spellbooks and has no material components, which 
makes his wall of iron spell useless. He can still cast 
blur, magic missile and phantasmal killer. He can also 
use his spell-like abilities. 

He's telling the truth about the "big fish man" (the 
kuo-toan monitor in area 18) and the "big fish" (the 
aboleth in area 19), but Istovahn knows more about 
them than he's letting on at first. He wants the PCs to 
defeat these creatures, but he also wants to keep up 
his facade. If the PCs press for more information 
about these two creatures, Istovahn reveals the fol 
lowing: 

• "The big fish man has sharp eyes and can see invis 
ible things. He can become invisible too. He has a 
magical net that traps people. Both the fish man and 
his net can burn." 

• "The big fish likes to make images of whole lots of 
fish men, but watch out for the real fish man. If the 
big fish gets in trouble, it will run away down 
through a hole in the bottom of the pool. You should 
capture the fish if you can. It can people the ability to 
breathe water, which could allow you to swim down 
into the hole and get the fish's treasure." 

• "I don't get my orders from the big fish, but from 
another bigger fish I've never seen. I bet the unseen 
fish lives at the bottom of the hole." 

Istovahn is twisting the truth again with his last 
statement. He has seen the other fish (Tichthys), but 
doesn't want to admit it. 

If the PCs leave Istovahn behind, he waits a bit, 
then makes a break for area 4. If they drag him along, 
he goes without too much trouble but tries to escape 
at the first opportunity. 

Istovahn has never seen Tichthys with the Rod seg 
ment and has no reason to assume the aboleth has it. 
However, if the PCs ask about it, he enthusiastically 
describes a powerful magical wand that the "big 
fish" uses from time to time. Istovahn isn't sure what 
its powers are, but he says the aboleth treats it like a 
priceless treasure. Istovahn very much wants the 
party to go attack the aboleths, so he spins whatever 
tale he can to convince them that those creatures 
have what the party is after. If the PCs describe any 


of the Rod's powers, Istovahn spins a tale about how 
Tichthys used it once. 

The party has one chance to win Istovahn's trust. If 
they can regenerate his lost hand on the spot, he is 
impressed. If they do it out of sheer generosity, with 
out trying to use it as a bargaining chip, he is over 
whelmed. Kindness is a new concept to him. He then 
drops his act and tells the PCs everything he knows 
about the complex: 

• Most of the fish men are creatures called "skum," a 
servitor race created by the aboleths as warriors and 
slaves. They are deadly fighters underwater. 

• There are also a few kuo-toa in the area. The abo 
leth who runs the place trades them fungi and stone 
for slaves. 

• One kuo-toa (the "big fish man") serves as care 
taker for three pools full of giant leeches, which are 
located due east of here. 

• The aboleth leader lives on a lower level that is 
completely submerged. An exit somewhere in the 
south end of the pool in area 19 gives the only access 
to the chief aboleth's lair. The PCs will have to find a 
way to breathe water if they wish to attack it. The 
younger, weaker aboleth on this level can grant any 
one the ability to breathe water, so capturing it 
would be a good idea. The PCs can always kill it 
later. (Impressed by kindness, Istovahn has yet to 
learn it himself.) 

• The pool where the younger aboleth lives is well- 
stocked with giant crayfish that attack pretty much 
anything except aboleths. 

If the PCs win him over, Istovahn is willing to 
accompany them. He asks them if they have a bit of 
sheet iron (for his ivall of iron spell). If he gave the 
PCs contact poison, he takes it back, offering his oint 
ment of protection from fungi instead. He keeps the 
potion of invisibility he got from the kuo-toa. 

If the PCs don't win him over, they still can see 
through his act and extract some useful information 
from him. A detect lie spell will reveal Istovahn's 
many falsehoods (provided he fails his saving throw; 
his magic resistance does not apply). A know align 
ment spell reveals Istovahn's chaotic evil alignment, 
which should make the PCs suspicious. Though Isto 
vahn is evil, detect evil (either the spell or the paladin 





Spelunking 


ability) reveals nothing about him unless the PCs use 
it when he is giving them the contact poison (an evil 
act). If the PCs make it clear to Istovahn that they are 
aware of his deceptions, he drops his act and gives 
the party the five pieces of information listed above, 
hoping to save his skin. He still plans to escape the 
party as quickly as he can. 

Istovahn, em M12: AC 8 (Dexterity bonus); MV 12; 
hp 24; THACO 17; #AT nil; SA spells, spell-like abili 
ties; SD +2 bonus to all saves vs. magical attacks; SW 
sensitive to light; MR 74%; SZ M (5' tall); ML steady 
(12); AL CE; XP Nil. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities as 12th level caster- 
dancing lights, darkness, detect magic, faerie fire, know 
alignment, and levitate. All are usable once a day. 

Exposure to bright light reduces Dexterity score by 
2 points, imposes a -2 penalty on initiative rolls, and 
gives opponents a +2 saving throw bonus against 
Istovahn's spells and spell-like abilities. When attack 
ing opponents who are in brightly lit areas Istovahn 
suffers a -1 attack penalty and the opponent gains a 
+1 saving throw bonus. The two effects are cumula 
tive. 

Gains a +2 bonus on surprise rolls. 

S 8, D 16, C 9,118, W 15, Ch 15. 

Personality: Bitter, distrustful. 

Spells (4/4/4/4/4/1) 1st- magic missile (x2), 2nd- 
blur; 3rd-none; 4th- phantasmal killer; 5th- zvall of 
iron. 

Special Equipment: 4 jars of type N contact poison, 3 
jars of ointment of protection from fungi. 

18. Leech Breeding Area 

Tactical Map F3 shows this area and areas 18a and 

19. 

Tichthys uses the three pools here to breed giant 
leeches for area 12. Each pool is about 6 feet deep 
and filled with dirty water. The leeches begin their 
lives in the northern pool, which currently contains 
one-hit-die leeches. As they mature, they are trans 
ferred to the center pool, then to the south pool, and 
finally to area 12. The center pool currently holds 
two-hit-die leeches and the south pool holds three- 
hit-die leeches. 

Tichthys employs two rogue kuo-toa, a monitor 
(see the Monstrous Manual Tome, page 216) and a 
thief, as leech keepers and guards. When the PCs 
enter the level, these two are puttering around in the 
center pool. If the shriekers give the alarm, the moni 


tor moves to the south end of the area (at the point 
marked with an X) and takes a sip of his potion of 
invisibility. If still in the area, the thief hides in shad 
ows just west of the central pool, at the spot marked 
with a circled X. 

If the PCs waltz right into this area after dealing 
with the shriekers, the monitor hits them with a 
javelin of lightning. (He is completely unconcerned 
about being caught in the backblast.) Then he dodges 
to the east, disappearing behind the rock wall. If the 
PCs pursue, the thief steps up and backstabs some 
body on the rear rank while the monitor uses his 
superior movement rate to circle around to the north. 
He selects a lightly armored character for hand-to- 
hand combat and strikes to subdue. Three quarters of 
the damage he inflicts is temporary (see PHB, Chap 
ter 9), but his damage dice are doubled. 

If the PCs don't come to this area directly, the mon 
itor sends the thief to area 17 to see what Istovahn is 
up to, and the drow kills the thief (see the description 
for area 15). When the thief does not return, the mon 
itor retreats to area 19. 

If the PCs enter the level quietly, the kuo-toa won't 
notice them until they enter area 18, become involved 
in a combat in area 15, or search for the secret door 
leading to area 17. If the characters get to this area 
before the alarm is raised, they have the normal 
chance to surprise the kuo-toa. Surprised or not, one 
kuo-toa runs to area 19 to warn the aboleth. If both are 
alive, the thief goes while the monitor hurls a javelin of 
lightning and then moves into melee. Otherwise, the 
monitor races to area 19 and dives into the pool. 

The leeches remain in their pools no matter what 
happens. If a character enters a pool, the leeches 
swarm to the attack. If prevented from running to 
area 19, the kuo-toa dive into the central pool. The 
leeches ignore the fish men but attack any PCs who 
enter the water. 

Kuo-Toan Monitor (Kuo-Toa): AC 1; MV 18, Sw 

36; HD 7; hp 56; THACO 14; #AT 4; Dmg ld4+l/ 
Id4+l/2d4/2d4 (bite/bite/hand/hand); SA subdual; 
SD invisibility detection, resistances, immunities; SW 
susceptible to light and fire; SZ M (6' 4" tall); ML 
elite 13; Int high (13); AL NE; XP 975; MM/215. 

Notes: Attempts to grapple, tie, grasp, or web suc 
ceed only 25% of the time. Half damage from electri 
cal attacks or none if save succeeds; +2 bonus to sur 
prise rolls. Immune to illusions. Magic missile causes 
only 1 point of damage per missile. 

Detect invisible, astral, or ethereal creatures within 


Spelunking 


10 yards if they are moving, 60-foot infravision, 180 
degree field of vision. 

Bright light or daylight imposes -1 attack roll 
penalty; -2 saving throw penalty vs. fire attacks. 

Can pummel armed opponents without suffering 
counterattacks, inflicts double damage when striking 
to subdue. Subdual results in unconsciousness for 
3d4 rounds. 

Special Equipment: Glue-covered jack (weapons 
striking the monitor have a 25% chance of becoming 
stuck until wielder succeeds with an open doors roll; 
removing a stuck weapon counts as an attack), net of 
entrapment, potion of invisibility, 3 javelins of lightning. 

Kuo-Toan Thief (Kuo-Toa): AC 4; MV 9, Sw 2; HD 

2; hp 10; THACO 20; #AT 2 or 1; Dmg Id4+l/ld6 
(bite/spear) or ld4 (dagger); SA thief abilities; SD 
invisibility detection, resistances, immunities; SW 
susceptible to light and fire; SZ M (5' 9" tall); ML 
elite 13; Int high (13); AL NE; XP 175; MM/215. 

Notes: Attempts to grapple, tie, grasp, or web suc 
ceed only 25% of the time. Half damage from electri 
cal attacks or none if save succeeds; +2 bonus to sur 
prise rolls. Immune to illusions. Magic missile causes 
only 1 point of damage per missile. 

Detect invisible, astral, or ethereal creatures within 
10 yards if they are moving, 60-foot infravision, 180 
degree field of vision. 

Bright light or daylight imposes -1 attack roll 
penalty; -2 saving throw penalty vs. fire attacks. 

Backstab for double damage. 

Thief Abilities: PP 35, OL 29, F/RT 25, MS 21, HS 15, 
DN 10, CW 86. 

Special Equipment: potion of invisibility. 

Giant Leeches (Leech) (60): AC 9; MV 3, Sw 3; HD 
20@1, 20@2, 20@3; hp 5/hit die; THACO 19 (1-2 HD), 
17 (3 HD); #AT 1; Dmg ld4; SA blood drain, disease; 
SZ S (2' long); ML unsteady (7); Int non (0); AL N; XP 
65 each (1 HD), 120 each (2 HD), 175 each (3 HD); 
MM/219. 

Notes: If a leech scores a hit, it attaches itself and 
drains blood for four points of damage each round. 
There is only a 1% chance that the victim knows he 
has been bitten (anesthetic saliva). Once attached, the 
leech drains blood for one point of damage per hit 
die of the leech each round. The leech remains 
attached for 10 rounds or until removed. The victim 
automatically notices the leeches if he loses 50% or 
more of his original hit points. 

There is a 50% chance that anyone bitten will 


develop a disease that is fatal in ld4+l weeks unless 
cured. The victim shows no symptoms until the final 
week, when he suffers a fever that reduces Strength 
and Dexterity by two points each. Lost points return 
when the disease is cured. 

18a. Kuo-Toa Barracks 

The two kuo-toa from area 18 rest here. The cham 
ber contains two piles of wet seaweed (comfy beds 
for kuo-toa), two barrels (one filled with fresh bed 
ding, one filled with live crayfish), and a small shrine 
dedicated to Blibdoolpoolp, the kuo-toan goddess. 

The shrine is a large block of soapstone with a 
coral statuette of the goddess standing atop it. The 
stone is a cube about a foot square with rounded cor 
ners and edges, as though smoothed by running 
water. The top and bottom are featureless, but each 
of the four sides is engraved with an outline of an 
lobster claw spread wide. The statue is about 2 feet 
high and depicts the goddess (a female human body 
with a lobster's head and claws) standing with one 
arm upraised. The block weighs about 160 pounds. 
The statue weighs about 25 pounds. Together, the 
block and statue are worth 500 gp. Without the block, 
the statue is worth 400 gp. Without the statue, the 
block is worth 25 gp. 

19. The Little Master 

A young aboleth, Tichthys's offspring, lairs here, 
keeping watch over the level and tending to the giant 
crayfish Tichthys keeps in the pool. 

The pool has sheer sides and is about 15 feet deep 
except for the area around the sinkhole in the south 
end. Within 10 feet of the sinkhole, the pool is about 
20 feet deep, and the sinkhole itself is 30 feet deep. 
The crayfish tend to stick to the shallow end of the 
pool, and the aboleth spends most of its time on the 
bottom near the sinkhole. 

When alerted by the shriekers or the vibrations of 
combat, the aboleth takes cover behind the island (at 
the point marked with an X) and keeps a careful 
watch for intruders. Only a small part of the abo- 
leth's head and one of its eyes sticks up over the 
island. The party will not see the aboleth unless they 
are using a detect invisibility spell or spend a full 
round studying the island. 

When it sees the party, the aboleth creates an illu 
sion of a line kuo-toan priests rising out of the pool 
to hurl bolts of lightning: 






Spelunking 


The east end of the chamber you're standing in is 
filled with a pool of rippling water. A large, flat 
rock at the pool's north end forms an island about 
half a foot high. Before you can notice any other 
details, the pool fairly boils and almost a dozen 
scaly humanoids with goggle eyes erupt from the 
water. Your nostrils are filled with the scent of 
spray and fish. Tine creatures form a cordon down 
the pool's length. Most of them stand in mid-pool, 
ankle deep in water, but two have climbed atop the 
island. They fix you with fishy stares as they link 
arms. A nimbus of pow r er crackles to life around 
the line, and you feel the prickle of electricity tick 
ling your skin. 

The location of the illusory kuo-toa is indicated on 
the map by points marked with circles. 

The illusory kuo-toa unleash a bolt of lightning, 
automatically winning initiative (one clue to the 
players that all is not what it seems). The bolt is 5 feet 
w'ide and 30 feet long (identical to the stroke pro 
duced by a javelin of lightning); the aboleth aims the 
bolt to strike as may PCs as possible. If the characters 
do not disbelieve, they are entitled to saving throws 
vs. spells. The bolt delivers 10 points of damage to 
characters who succeed with their saving throws and 
20 to those who fail. Illusory damage persists for a 
maximum of ld3 turns (see PHD, Chapter 7). 

If the PCs retaliate with spells or missiles, their 
attacks appear to have no effect. Missiles seem to 
bounce harmlessly off the kuo-toa, and visible spell 
effects appear to stop only inches from the creatures. 

The aboleth keeps up the lightning bolt assault for 
as long as it seems to be effective. It hopes to drive the 
PCs away or lure them into the pool. If the PCs try to 
melee the illusory kuo-toa, they're in for a shock, 
because the pool is much deeper than the illusion 
makes it appear to be. Characters who rush in fall into 
the pool and tumble to the bottom. Each giant crayfish 
lurking in the shallow end gets a free attack on a char 
acter who falls into this end. Characters who fall into 
the deep end don't suffer any attacks, but sink 20 feet 
the first round to the pool's bottom. 

If the kuo-toa from area 18 retreated here, they will 
attack characters w'ho fall in the water. Otherwise, 
they make their wav to the island. From there, the 
monitor will hurl javelins of lightning at the party 
(attempting to confuse the issue of which lightning 
assaults are real and which are illusory). 

If characters fall into the water, the aboleth drops 


the illusion and uses its enslavement power. Its first 
choice is characters floundering in the deep end of 
the pool, but not in melee with a kuo-toa; failing that, 
it uses the power on any character within range and 
not engaged in melee. 

If the PCs spoke to Istovahn in area 17 before com 
ing here, they probably got a warning about the abo- 
leth's illusions. If so, they can automatically disbe 
lieve the illusory fish men and suffer no damage at 
all. If the PCs don't believe the illusion, the aboleth 
notices after one round and switches tactics. It cre 
ates an illusion of itself, leaping out of the water and 
wiggling up on shore, using a bed of rancid slime to 
help it along. The illusory aboleth flails with its ten 
tacles and its rubbery body seems to shed most 
blows (hence the low armor class). 

After three rounds of combat, the illusory aboleth 
slithers back into the pool and disappears as the abo 
leth drops the illusion. The next round, the aboleth 
begins using its enslavement power. 

Enslaved characters do not turn on their comrades. 
The aboleth commands them instead to remove all 
their equipment and hurl it into the deep end of the 
pool. Once that is done, they are directed to "bathe" 
in one of the pools full of giant leeches in area 18. 

The enslaved characters believe the leeches are good 
for them, and remain in the pool for 2d4 rounds or 
until they lose 50% of their hit points to the leeches. 
Thereafter, they simply lounge around until the abo 
leth is killed or the aboleth gives them further orders 
(which it will not do unless the party is killed or dri 
ven away). If the aboleth escapes (see below), 
enslaved characters wish to remain where they are. 
They refuse to take part in the adventure any further. 
Like the slaves from area 15, they must be dragged 
along to continue travelling with the party. 

If attacked, the aboleth fights back with its tentacles. 
It sticks to the pool, however, where the water gives it 
cover against missiles and most melee weapons and 
the crayfish can join the fray. While submerged, the 
aboleth and the crayfish have 90% cover against spells 
and missiles directed at them from the surface and 
cannot be attacked with slashing or bludgeoning 
weapons. Certain spells, such as lightning bolt, are not 
blocked by water. (For more information, see "Under 
water Combat" in Chapter 9, DMG.) 

If reduced to 10 hit points or less, the aboleth tries 
to flee through the sinkhole to level 4. The crayfish 
fight to the death. 

If the characters prevent the aboleth from escaping 
(by blocking the sinkhole or immobilizing it some- 


Spelunking 


how), it tries to bargain. It contacts the PCs telepathi- 
cally, telling them that the "big one" has all the trea 
sure. If the PCs seem agreeable, the aboleth explains 
that the party must go down the sinkhole. If the PCs 
cannot breathe water, the aboleth offers to use its jjj 
mucus cloud to grant them the ability, but it does not 
tell them how long it lasts or how to get rid of it. 

If the party asks how long the effect lasts, the abo 
leth has a hard time explaining, as its concept of time 
is very different from the PCs'. It has no concept of 
days, hours, or minutes. (The aboleth isn't stupid, but 
it has spent its whole life underground.) If the PCs 
press for a duration, the aboleth explains that the 
effect sometimes lasts a very little time-enough for 
the slaves to cut two loads of stone from the quarry- 
or a fairly long time-enough for six loads of stone- 
or an intermediate time-three or four loads. A char 
acter skilled in engineering or mining can translate 
that to the effect's true duration-ld3 hours. 

If the PCs ask what they will find down the sink 
hole, the aboleth relates the following: 

• "You will pass a guardian, but that won't hurt you 
once you're covered with slime." (It gives the PCs a 


squirt of mucus when it s&y$ this.) y;CJ.|A 

The statement is true, but aboleth is 

actually referring>|pi$.tbe slime from its belly, not the 
mucus. The aboleth is trying to pull a fast one on the 
¦ PCs. A detect lie spell won't expose the deception. 

• "Next, you'll have to run a gauntlet of guards. No 
way to avoid that." 

The aboleth is referring to area 21. The aboleth 
describes the general set-up if the PCs press for more 
information; see the area description for details. 

• "Finally, you'll go down a long corridor and around 
a sharp bend. The master awaits you beyond it." 

The aboleth is referring to area 22, but it is describ 
ing the area when it is veiled, not as it really appears. 
If the PCs press for more details, the aboleth claims it 
cannot predict what will happen when the party 
reaches the bend, which is true. The aboleth reveals 
no more, even on pain of death. 

If the party leaves the aboleth behind, it flees to area 16 
and exits the complex. It has no desire to face Tichthys 
after failing to defeat the PCs. If the party forces it to 






come along, it takes them as far as area 20, then attacks 
after it leads the group into the crayfish's lair. 

Young Aboleth (Aboleth): AC 4; MV 3, Sw 18; HD 
4; hp 23; THACO 17; #AT 4; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld4/ld4 
(tentacle); SA skin transformation, mucus cloud, illu 
sions, enslavement; SZ L (12' long); ML 13; Int high 
(14); AL LE; XP 650; MM/6. 

Notes: Tentacle hit causes save vs. spell or target's 
skin becomes a clear membrane in ld4+l rounds; the 
membrane must be kept damp and cool or the victim 
suffers ldl2 points of damage each turn. Cure disease 
halts the transformation and cure serious zvounds 
causes the membrane to revert to normal skin. 

When underwater, can create a cloud of mucus one 
foot thick. Creatures inhaling the mucus save vs. poi 
son or lose the ability to breathe air and gain the abil 
ity to breathe water for ld3 hours. Wine or soap dis 
solves the mucus. 

Can create vivid illusions with sound, smell, taste, 
and touch. Illusions last as long as the aboleth con 
centrates, and for four rounds thereafter. 

Three times a day, can attempt to enslave a crea 
ture within 30 feet. The target must save vs. spell or 
follow all the aboleth's telepathic commands (range 
one mile). The slave cannot be forced to fight for the 
aboleth. Enslavement lasts until dispelled or until the 
enslaving aboleth is killed. 

The aboleth has a limited form of telepathy that 
allows it to communicate with the PCs, but no other 
psionic powers. Glands on the creature's underside 
excrete a slime that gives the creature a distinctive, 
rancid smell. 

Giant Crayfish (Crustacean, Giant) (5): AC 4; MV 

6, Sw 12; HD 4+4; hp 24 each; THACO 15; #AT 2; 

Dmg 2d6/2d6; SA -2 to opponent's surprise rolls; SD 
immune to attacks that affect sight; SZ L (8' long); 

ML elite (13); Int non (0); AL N; XP 270 each; MM/50. 

Notes: The crayfish are blind. They are immune to 
illusions, invisibility, blinding, displacement, and all 
other effects that impair or fool sight. The giant cray 
fish will not enter the radius of an airy water spell. 

Illusory Aboleth: AC -2; MV 18 (illusory speed), 
Sw 18; HD 8; hp not applicable; THACO 17; #AT 4; 
Dmg Id8/ld8/ld8/ld8 (tentacle); SA constriction; 
SD immune to damage; SZ H (20' long); ML 13; Int 
high (14); AL LE; XP nil; MM/6. 

Notes: Tentacles grab when they hit, inflicting ld8 
points of illusory damage each round. 


Illusory damage persists for a maximum ld3 turns. 
If a character is reduced to zero hit points or less by 
illusory damage, he falls unconscious and must pass 
a system shock roll. If the roll fails, the character dies. 
Otherwise the character falls unconscious and 
reawakens after ld3 turns with all illusory damage 
healed (see PHB, Chapter 7). 

Level C 

This level is about 350 feet below the surface and is 
entirely filled with murky water. Maximum vision 
range is 15 feet, but within that range invisibility is 
useless-an invisible creature makes a visible hole in 
the murk. In addition, missile weapons are useless, 
except for specially prepared crossbows (triple the 
normal cost). Slashing or bludgeoning weapons are 
ineffective unless the wielder receives a free action 
spell or wears a ring of free action. Fire-based spells 
are ineffective. Note that characters within the radius 
of an airy water spell can move, attack, and use fire 
freely. The spell generates a great deal of noise, how 
ever, and the PCs cannot surprise the creatures on 
this level or level 4 when they are using it. For a 
more complete description of underwater combat, 
see DMG, Chapter 9. 

The first segment of the Rod indicates south. 

20. Guardian 

Tichthys's experiments have produced the monster 
crayfish that lies here, waiting for any unwary crea 
ture to blunder into its claws. It has been well trained 
to leave the aboleths alone, and anyone smeared with 
the rancid slime from an aboleth's body can pass this 
chamber unmolested. If the PCs are proceeding with 
out slime, the dark waters will allow the crayfish an 
attempt to surprise. 

The creature is prone to attacking skum when they 
pass by, but they have learned to appease it with 
some of the smelly mushrooms from areas 3 and 9. If 
the PCs offer the crayfish some mushrooms, there is 
only a 20% chance per round that it will attack. 

The portcullis on the east side of the room keeps 
the crayfish from wandering down to level 4. It is not 
inclined to climb up the sinkhole to level 3. The 
portcullis has no mechanism; it must be lifted 
through sheer strength. If characters with at least 36 
points of combined Strength try to lift the portcullis, 
they can do so in two rounds. No more than three 
characters can combine to lift it. A single character 


Spelunking 


also can lift it in two rounds if he succeeds with a 
bend bars/lift gates roll. 

Gargantuan Crayfish (Crustacean, Giant): AC 1; 

MV 6, Sw 12; HD 8+8; hp 48; THACO 11; #AT 2; Dmg 
3d8/3d8; SA-2 to opponent's surprise rolls; SD 
immune to attacks that affect sight; SZ H (12' long); 
ML elite (13); Int non (0); AL N; XP 3,000; MM/50. 

Notes: The crayfish is blind. It is immune to illu 
sions, invisibility, blinding, displacement, and all 
other effects that impair or fool sight. Airy water 
spells do not prevent the crayfish from attacking. 

21. Murder Holes 

A series of natural fissures in the walls here 
inspired Tichthys to create a nasty surprise for 
intruders who win past the crayfish in area 20. Five 
male skum are always on duty here, keeping watch 
on the corridor. They notice any combat in area 20, 
even if it is silenced. (Vibrations and blood in the 
water alert them.) 

When they spot intruders, they attack through the 
cracks in the corridor wall with their tridents. The tri 
dents reach the squares in front of the holes and one 
square to the left and right. The skum have 90% 
cover when attacking through the holes. There is also 
a change that anyone hit with a trident will be 
snagged and dragged against the hole to be bitten 
(see the notes after the skum's statistics). 

If the PCs study the corridor before moving down 
it, they have the same chance of noticing the cracks 
as they have for finding secret doors. The cracks 
become obvious when the skum attack. 

If the PCs get past the skum, the survivors swim to 
area 22 and join the guards in their ambush. Should the 
PCs break through the wall and pursue, two skum at 
tempt to hold the passage while the rest flee. The wall is 
sturdy, and only magical means such as a transmute rock 
to mud spell or a passwall spell breach the wall quickly. 

Skum (5): AC 7; MV 6, Sw 15; HD 2+2; hp 15 each; 
THACO 17 (16 with Strength bonus); #AT 5 or 1; Dmg 
2d8/ld6 (x2)/ld8 (x2) (bite/fore claws/rear claws) 
or ld8+3 (two-handed trident + Strength bonus); SW 
-4 saving throw penalty vs. enchantment/charm 
spells; SZ M (5' tall); ML steady (11); Int low (7); AL 
LE; XP 175 each; MCA1/100. 

Notes: 60-foot infravision. Limited telepathy 
allows communication with aboleths and other skum 
within 30 yards. Skin dries out after 30 minutes away 


from water, inflicting 3d4 points of damage on the 
creature each turn until the skin is wetted again. 

Trident hit on an attack roll of 16 or better snags the 
opponent. The next round, the skum drags the charac 
ter up to the murderhole and can bite, hitting automat 
ically. The character must win an opposed Strength roll 
to get free. (To win, the character must roll under his 
Strength score on ld20 and the number must be higher 
than what the skum rolls. If the both the character and 
the skum roll the same number, it is a tie. If both the 
character and the skum fail the Strength check, it is a 
tie.) The skum here have 18 Strength. The skum 
penalty for attacking with weapons does not apply. 

Level 4 

This level is about 375 feet below the surface. Like 
level C, it is filled with murky water, and the same con 
ditions that apply on level C (see page 65) apply here. 

The characters get no indication of direction from 
the first segment of the Rod because they are within 
70 yards of the liext piece (see Book III, page 5). 

The PCs have reached Tichthys's last line of 
defense. When they reach area 23, Tichthys person 
ally counterattacks. 

22. Guardpost 

Ten male skum live here. Under normal circum 
stances, half are asleep and the other half keep a 
sharp lookout for intruders. Unless the PCs got this 
far without being detected, all the skum are awake 
and waiting in ambush for the party. Tichthys has 
made things more interesting by using its veil power 
to make the chamber appear to be an extension of the 
passage the party has been following. 

The shaded area indicates the illusory walls. The 
skum's positions are marked with X's. 

Even if the PCs are on the lookout for illusions, 
they can't detect this one without a true seeing spell, 
gem of seeing, or similar magical aid. The illusory 
walls look, feel, smell, and even taste like real stone. 
(Touching the illusion does not dispel it.) If the PCs 
look carefully, they notice hairline cracks in the walls 
where the skum are standing. While veiled, the skum 
look like separate chunks of rock. 

The skum attack when the entire party has entered 
the room or whenever the PCs start getting suspicious. 
In the former case, the PCs are ambushed. The skum 
get a free round of attacks, and then the party has to 
roll for surprise. (The skum cannot be surprised.) 





3Rr 


Spelunking 


Even after the skum attack, the chamber looks like 
a passage with a five-foot alcove every place where a 
skum was standing. The skum can move freely about 
the chamber during the melee. To PCs who believe 
the illusion, the skum appear to be walking right 
though the walls. This gives the PCs ample reason to 
disbelieve the illusion. If they opt to walk though the 
wall instead, a character inside a "wall" can see noth 
ing, and moves in a random direction (use the 
grenade scatter diagram from Chapter 9 of the DMG) 
unless he makes a successful Wisdom check. PCs 
who blunder into area 23 have to face the crayfish. 

Skum (10): AC 7; MV 6, Sw 15; HD 2+2; hp 15 
each; THACO 17 (16 with Strength bonus); #AT 5; 
Dmg 2d8/ld6 (x2)/ld8 (x2) (bite/fore claws/rear 
claws); SW -4 saving throw penalty vs. enchant 
ment/charm spells; SZ M (5' tall); ML steady (11); Int 
low (7); AL LE; XP 175 each; MCA1/100. 

Notes: 60-foot infravision. Limited telepathy 
allows communication with aboleths and other skum 
within 30 yards. Skin dries out after 30 minutes away 
from water, inflicting 3d4 points of damage on the 
creature each turn until the skin is wetted again. 

23. The Master's Pet 

The biggest, meanest crayfish Tichthys's experi 
ments have produced lives here. Tactical Map F4 
shows the area. 

The crayfish is vicious and always ravenously 
hungry. It attacks anything that comes within reach, 
even the immature aboleth and characters smeared 
with slime, unless Tichthys is present to warn it 
away. It lurks unseen in one of the two sinkholes 
(50% chance for either) and rushes out at its prey, 
imposing a -2 penalty to the opponent's surprise roll. 

The two gates to the south exits look exactly like 
the portcullis in area 20, but they open by pulling on 
the bottom. Close examination of the ceiling near the 
portcullis will reveal small hinges. If the characters 
try to lift them, they can work all day and gates 
won't budge. If the characters pull, a successful open 
doors roll gets them open. Of course, a PC also can 
bend the bars and squeeze through the gap. 

The gate leading east is similar to those above, except 
that the PCs must push on the bottom to get it open. 

Alert: The aboleth joins the fray when the PCs 
enter this area, even while actually remaining physi 
cally in its lair. Tichthys begins the attack by sending 
an illusory purple worm to assault the party, appar 


ently bursting through the portcullis (see area 26). 
Should the party rush through this chamber without 
pause, Tichthys adapts his plan quickly and plans his 
ambuscade for the party when they enter area 25. 

Gargantuan Crayfish (Crustacean, Giant): AC 1; 

MV 6, Sw 12; HD 8+8; hp 72; THACO 11; #AT 2; Dmg 
3d8/3d8; SA -2 to opponent's surprise rolls; SD 
immune to attacks that affect sight; SZ H (12' long); 
ML elite (13); Int animal (1); AL N; XP 4,000; MM/50. 

Notes: The crayfish is blind. It is immune to illu 
sions, invisibility, blinding, displacement, and all 
other effects that impair or fool sight. Airy water 
spells do not prevent the crayfish from attacking. 

24. Crayfish Breeding Cavern 

Tichthys uses this area to breed and raise the cray 
fish found elsewhere in the complex. A look through 
the gate reveals dozens of the creatures in sizes rang 
ing from a few inches to more than a foot. The bigger 
ones are hiding deeper in the cavern. The biggest one 
lies in the sinkhole. 

If the PCs enter the cavern, nothing happens until 
they come within 10 feet of the sinkhole. When they 
do, the gargantuan crayfish attacks and the giant 
crayfish join in one round later. 

Gargantuan Crayfish (Crustacean, Giant): AC 1; 

MV 6, Sw 12; HD 8+8; hp 50; THACO 11; #AT 2; Dmg 
3d8/3d8; SA -2 to opponent's surprise rolls; SD 
immune to attacks that affect sight; SZ H (12' long); 
ML elite (13); Int non (0); AL N; XP 3,000; MM/50. 

Notes: The crayfish is blind. It is immune to illu 
sions, invisibility, blinding, displacement, and all other 
effects that impair or fool sight. Airy water spells do 
not prevent the crayfish from attacking. The giant 
crayfish will not attack a creature covered with slime 
taken from a living aboleth within the past 10 hours. 

Giant Crayfish (crustacean, giant) (6): AC 4; MV 6, 

Sw 12; HD 4+4; hp 24 each; THACO 15; #AT 2; Dmg 
2d6/2d6; SA -2 to opponent's surprise rolls; SD 
immune to attacks that affect sight; SZ L (8' long); 

ML elite (13); Int non (0); AL N; XP 270 each; MM/50. 

Notes: The crayfish are blind. They are immune to 
illusions, invisibility, blinding, displacement, and all 
other effects that impair or fool sight. The giant crayfish 
will not enter the radius of an airy water spell. Tire giant 
crayfish will not attack a creature covered with slime 
taken from a living aboleth within the past 10 hours. 







25. False Treasure Room 

The floor, walls, and ceiling in this room are covered 
with rancid slime. (Although the slime came from 
Tichthys, it is too old to be used as crayfish repellent.) 

The slime is thick enough to conceal the sinkhole in 
the southwest corner. Characters wading in that area 
(not swimming) without probing the floor fall in, suf 
fering 2d6 points of damage from the hard landing. If 
the characters follow the tunnel at the base of the sink 
hole, they arrive in the center of area 26 (see map). 

Scraping the slime off any surface releases a cas 
cade of coins and a few gems. If the characters clean 
and search the whole chamber, they find 15,000 cor 
roded coins (8,000 cp and 7,000 sp), 124 gems (10 gp 
each), a string of white pearls (200 gp total value; 
they're very small), and 22 golden bars (actually 
gold-plated copper; value 2 gp each). 

Tichthys left the treasure here to delay greedy 
invaders. 

Alert: If for some reason the aboleth did not gain 
the opportunity to engage the PCs in area 23, it will 
attack while they are here, using the plan of attack 
described below (see area 26). 

26. The Master's Chamber 

Tichthys, the aboleth who rules this complex, 
makes its lair here. The chamber's ceiling rises some 
40 feet. The whole chamber is coated with a thick 
layer of slime but has no other furnishings. 

The two alcoves in the north wall are about 15 feet 
off the floor. They are about 10 feet high and packed 
solid with slime. The easternmost contains an incu 
bating aboleth egg. 

As mentioned above, Tichthys does not await the 
party's arrival in its lair. It counterattacks when they 
enter area 23. Tichthys remains in area 26, looking 
down the passage to the northwest. 

Tichthvs begins by sending an illusory purple 
worm to attack the party. The worm attempts to bite 
and swallow one character each round. The party's 
blows seem to hurt the worm (the characters see 
wounds and blood), but the creature seems to ignore 
the damage. Swallowed characters never seem to cut 
their way out. When the PCs discover the worm's 
true nature, Tichthys uses domination on the party 
warrior or rogue, guessing that they have the lowest 
Wisdom score. Tichthys does not attempt to domi 
nate elves or half-elves. 

If the domination attempt succeeds, Tichthys bids 


its new minion to pummel the party's spellcasters; 
this does not grant the victim a new saving throw, 
however. Tichthys continues making domination 
attacks until it uses the power five times or a PC 
engages the aboleth in melee, whereupon it uses the 
Rod's slow power on the party. 

If Tichthys or one of its servants ever witnesses 
the party using the first segment of the Rod, the abo 
leth takes a different tack. Its domination attacks are 
then directed at the Rod wielder. Tichthys recognizes 
the segment even if it still is attached to the handle, 
and correctly surmises that anyone bringing a 
"wand" that heals wounds into the complex must be 
after the second piece of the Rod. If it cannot domi 
nate the Rod wielder, Tichthys shows its segment to 
the group, using the slow power as it does so. "So 
this is what you want?" the aboleth declares. The 
next round, Tichthys hurls the segment to the floor, 
where it disappears. "How fast can you swim?" it 
asks. When the PCs approach the area, they see a 
gaping crack in the floor with no visible bottom. The 
crack is an illusion. Tichthys caught the segment 
with a tentacle and secreted it in the slime on its 
belly. After pretending to throw away the Rod, 
Tichthys resumes the battle. 

In any case, Tichthys withdraws up the sinkhole to 
area 27 when the party gets close enough to melee. 
See that area's description for details. 

Illusory Purple Worm (Worm): AC 6; MV 9, Br 9, 

Sw 24 (illusory speed); HD 15; hp not applicable 
(does not "die"); THAC0 13 (illusory combat effec 
tiveness); #AT 1; Dmg 2dl2; SA swallow; SZ G (25' 
long); ML not applicable (never checks morale); Int 
non (0); AL N; XP Nil; MM/364. 

Notes: Illusory damage persists for a maximum 
ld3 turns. If a character is reduced to zero hit points 
or less by illusory damage, he falls unconscious and 
must pass a system shock roll. If the roll fails, the 
character dies. Otherwise the character falls uncon 
scious and reawakens after ld3 turns with all illusory 
damage healed (see PHB, Chapter 7). 

Attack roll that exceeds required score to hit by 4 
or more indicates victim has been swallowed. Swal 
lowed characters can escape only by disbelieving. If 
they fail to escape in six rounds they must pass a sys 
tem shock roll as described above. 

Aboleth: AC 4; MV 3, Sw 18; HD 8; hp 46; THAC0 
13; #AT 4; Dmg Id6/ld6/ld6/ld6 (tentacle); SA skin 
transformation, mucus cloud, illusions, enslavement, 


Spelunking 


psionic powers; SZ H (20' long); ML 13; Int high (14); 
ALLE;XP 2,000; MM/6. 

Notes: Tentacle hit causes save vs. spell or target's 
skin becomes a clear membrane in ld4+l rounds; the 
membrane must be kept damp and cool or the victim 
suffers ldl2 points of damage each turn. Cure disease 
halts the transformation, and cure serious wounds 
causes the membrane to revert to normal skin. 


expects no quarter from the party. Likewise, if the 
party detects Tichthys while it is pretending to be a 
rock, the aboleth fights to the death. 

While defending the sinkhole, only one PC at a 
time can fight. A character with a long thrusting 
weapon, such as a spear, can stand behind the lead 
character and jab, but Tichthys (and its illusory dou 
ble) has an effective armor class of -4 because the 


When underwater, can create a cloud of mucus one 
foot thick. Creatures inhaling the mucus save vs. poi 
son or lose the ability to breathe air and gain the abil 
ity to breathe water for ld3 hours. Wine or soap dis 
solves the mucus. 

Can create vivid illusions with sound, smell, taste, 
and touch. Illusions last as long as the aboleth concen 
trates, and for eight rounds thereafter. 

Three times a day, can attempt to enslave creatures 
within 30 feet. The target must save vs. spell or follow 
all the aboleth's telepathic commands (range one mile). 
The slave cannot be forced to fight for the aboleth. 

See the Monstrous Manual Tome for details on 
psionic powers. If your campaign does not use psion- 
ics, the aboleth has the following additional spell-like 
powers instead: veil (once a turn), telepathy at will 
(can read the thoughts of any creature within 60 feet, 
one creature per round; also can communicate tele- 
pathically at any range, but can only detect thoughts 
the subject is willing to send if the range is greater 
than 60 feet), domination (five times a day). These 
powers function at 12th level. 

Special Equipment: Second segment of the Rod of 
Seven Parts. 

27. Treasury 

This chamber's floor is about 20 feet higher that 
the rest of the level. Every surface is slime covered, 
just like areas 25 and 26. Tichthys keeps its most 
valuable treasure here, and it is here that the aboleth 
makes its last stand against the PCs. 

If it gets here ahead of the PCs, it creates an illusion 
of itself blocking the sinkhole and fighting off the 


sinkhole's twisting walls get in the way. Tichthys and 
its double also gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and ini 
tiative for being higher than the enemy. Characters 
who cannot swim or fly receive a -6 initiative penalty 
when attacking up the sinkhole. 

Once the PCs defeat Tichthys, they can explore the 
chamber. Besides the second segment of the Rod 
(secreted in the slime on its belly), Tichthys has accu 
mulated 7,000 sp, 4,000 gp, 2,000 pp, 4 base 50 gp 
gems, 2, base 500 gp gems, a platinum statue of the 
drow goddess Lolth worth 5,000 gp intact (2,000 gp if 
melted down), a cloak of the manta ray, a philter of love, 
and a full set of Nolzur's marvelous pigments. 

Afterward 

The PCs have no trouble leaving the complex after 
slaying Tichthys and recovering the Rod. Those resi 
dents with any intelligence (skum and the like, but 
not the fungi) are quite content to let them go. If the 
PCs return to the complex after slaying the aboleth, 
they find a group of drow. The dark elves are using 
the complex as a fungi farm and an outpost for raid 
ing the surface. If Istovahn survived and escaped, the 
one-handed wizard is an important member of the 
hierarchy and has turned whole sections of the com 
plex into breeding grounds for various slimes, oozes, 
and molds. The drow have killed or driven away 
Tichthys's former servants. They have sealed off the 
sinkholes in areas 16 and 19. They have set up a 
guardpost and a portcullis at area 4. 

If the PCs retreat back to the surface before con 
fronting Tichthys and recovering the Rod, they can 


party as they swim or climb up through that opening. 
The illusory Tichthys has the same statistics as the 
real one, but its tentacles don't transform skin. If 
PCs "kill" the illusory aboleth (which will "d 
appropriate moment), Tichthys uses its veil p 
conceal itself as a huge rock. It is willing to let the 
party loot its treasury if that means it will survive. 

If the PCs are hot on its tail, Tichthys blocks the 
sinkhole with its own body and fights to the death. It 


return, but Tichthys uses the intervening time to 
make his lair a bit more formidable: 

• If the PCs turned back before reaching level 2, 
Tichthys bids its servants to block the entrance to the 
complex. They block both passages to area lb with 
cut stones from the quarry (area 15). The walls they 
build are 8 feet high, 5 feet wide, and 2 feet thick. 
Tichthys also places a shrieker and a violet fungus 







Spelunking 


behind each wall and in the umber hulk tunnel east 
of the chamber. The party can tear down the stones 
or break their way into the umber hulk tunnel. Tear 
ing down the walls requires 30 minutes of work by at 
least two characters with Strength scores of 18 or 
higher. There is a 25% chance that the characters trig 
ger a cave-in while working; see the description of 
area 2 for details. The PCs can smash through the 
wall and make an opening to the umber hulk tunnel 
as described in the area 2 description. In any case, 
breaking through a wall disturbs the shrieker and 
violet fungus on the other side. If the PCs trigger a 
cave-in, the shrieker and violet fungi are automati 
cally buried (they aren't agile enough to escape), but 
the shrieker still raises the alarm. A reduce spell 
affects the entire wall, not just a single block, if its 
volume is sufficient (80 cubic feet). 

Elsewhere on level 1, it is business as usual. Tichthys 
is concerned about the PCs' foray but assumes they 
just stumbled into the area while treasure hunting. 
There are skum working in area 3, and the umber hulk 
is still lurking about if the PCs didn't kill it. If the PCs 
killed the skum in area 3, eight immature skum from 
area 10a are pressed into servitude. Now that they 
have been put to work, they have the same abilities as 
the adults, but only nine hit points each. 

Tichthys removes Istovahn from his laboratory and 
keeps him tied up in area 25 (after granting him the 
ability to breathe water). Tichthys has no intention of 
letting invaders question Istovahn. The drow remains 
there for five days. After that, Tichthys allows him to 
resume work in area 17, but hastily drags him back to 
area 25 if anyone invades the complex again. 

• If the PCs reached level 2 before turning back, 
Tichthys is concerned. The aboleth takes all the steps 
outlined above, but temporarily abandons level one, 
sending the skum usually assigned to area 3 into area 9. 

Tichthys orders the entrance to area 8 walled off in 
the same manner as described above, with violet fun 
gus and one shrieker. Three skum armed with darts 
keep watch over area 8. 

The two south entrances to area 11 are walled off, 
and five additional skum are assigned there to keep 
watch over area 12. 

The three-hit-dice giant leeches from area 18 are 
added to the mud hole in area 12. 

• If the PCs reached level 3 before turning back, 
Tichthys takes all the precautions noted above and 
walls off area 14 as well, placing one shrieker and two 


violet fungi behind the wall. (Even if the PCs killed 
all the shriekers and violet fungi during their previ 
ous visit, Tichthys knows where more are to be had.) 

Tichthys and two other aboleths keep watch in 
area 19; if the immature aboleth survived the party's 
last visit, it is one of the three; otherwise two other 
adult aboleth join Tichthys. Use Tichthys's statistics 
for the other adults. 

When the PCs enter area 19, one of the aboleths 
maintains an illusion while the other two use domina 
tion and enslavement on the party. If the PCs effec 
tively counterattack, Tichthys slips down to level 4 to 
make a last stand while the other aboleths hold off 
the party as best they can. 

One of the adults brings 10 female skum with max 
imum hit points along to bolster the complex's 
defenses. Five of these are stationed near area 8 and 
the rest are placed in area 15. 

• If the PCs simply decide to stop somewhere to rest 
and regain spells, Tichthys takes whatever precau 
tions from the list above as seem necessary; for exam 
ple, if the party holes up on level 2, Tichthys doesn't 
bother to block off level 1 even if it could, but blocks 
off level 3 and calls for reinforcements instead. 

Tichthys has no intention of letting the PCs rest 
easy. If the party can be found, two or three skum 
armed with darts attack the group every two hours. 
They should cause just enough trouble to keep the 
PCs from resting well enough to regain spells. If the 
characters hide in the umber hulk tunnels (near area 
2) while resting, they avoid attacks. 

Troubleshooting 

If the party slays Tichthys but does not find the Rod 
segment stuck to its belly, they can discover their 
error fairly readily by going back to level C and using 
the first segment of the Rod, which still indicates level 
4. If they don't have the first segment of the Rod, 
Arquestan sends a hound of law to sniff out the seg 
ment for them, or goes to get it himself. Arquestan 
does not normally go collecting pieces of the Rod, but 
he's not willing not let one lie unguarded. 

If the party simply gives up before getting a chance 
to recover the Rod, it might be best to set this adven 
ture aside for awhile until the PCs are ready. If the 
party merely needs encouragement, Arquestan can 
give them a pep talk or even offer some assistance; 
see the Mysterious Stranger adventure in Book III. 



The Rod's third segment is currently the property of a 
fire giantess named Siiri Dragosdottur. She uses the 
six-inch fragment as a hairpin. Siiri knows the com 
mand word for the segment's haste power (fiat ) and 
uses it frequently. Recently, the giantess has been using 
haste on her servants to make them work faster. Several 
groups of kakkuu have already attacked her, but Siiri 
has not realized that her increased use of the Rod has 
anything to do with their appearance. Siiri has no idea 
what the Rod is. To her, it's just a magical hairpin with 
a useful power. Meanwhile, it has made her the most 
lawful and fastidious of fire giants. 

When the PCs arrive on the scene, Siiri and a small 
entourage have traveled to the castle of Yurik and 
Nalani Kolophon, a pair of neighboring cloud giants. 
Siiri has arranged a diplomatic marriage between the 
{Colophons' eldest son, Diomed, and her youngest 
daughter, Jytte. The two groups of giants have formed 
an alliance against a pair of silver dragons that have 
moved into the area. The cloud giants' castle is built at 
the very top of a mountain peak some 1,100 miles from 
Tichthys's lair. The castle is isolated and far from civi 
lization. If things have gone well for the PCs, their seg 
ment of the Rod leads them here. If not, Arquestan, or 
perhaps Qadeej, can direct them (see Book III). 

earehin'¦ H *r rl u C. dsi.d 

Map B2 shows the mountainous area surrounding 
the cloud giant castle and the fire giant lair. If the party 
has the second segment of the Rod, locating the castle 
is a simple matter of finding a way through the moun 
tains (probably following the river upstream) while 
homing in on the next segment's location. Yet because 
Siiri makes several trips between her lair and the cloud 
giants' castle seeing to the wedding arrangements, the 
direction to the next segment shifts several times dur 
ing party's trip. This has no effect on the adventure 
except to confuse the PCs. By the time when the party 
enters the area charted on Map B2, Siiri is in the castle 
and will stay there for several months while the wed 
ding is performed and the couple settles in. 

If the PCs don't have the second segment, their first 
real clue to where they should go is event 1 or event 2 
(see page 73). 



When the PCs are at the base of the mountain, the 
second segment indicates "up." If they are flying, the 
second segment indicates the castle. By the time the 


PCs reach the castle, the second segment probably 
gives no direction at all because the PCs are too close. 

When the characters arrive, Siiri is splitting her time 
the between her quarters (area 24), Diomed's personal 
suite (area 26) and the cloud garden (area 23). When 
Siiri is in area 23, the PCs' segment will point toward 
that area because it is so large. If they go to the garden, 
however, they lose track of the segment as they 
approach. Note that Siiri spends only a few hours at a 
time in the garden; see the Cast of Characters section 
for details on her schedule. 

A p p rone! i i nt h < • C a st 1 e 

The castle sits atop a 16,000 foot peak. If the party is 
on foot, the easiest access to the castle is up the main 
trail the giants have made. The climb takes about two 
days. The trail leads to the cloud bridge (area 13). More 
adventurous parties might wish to scale the peak. 
Rather than make the dozens of climbing rolls that nor 
mally would be required to accomplish this feat, use 
the procedure outlined below: 

Scaling the peak takes six days and can be successful 
only if the characters are sensible and use an experi 
enced climber to lead the way, rope themselves 
together to prevent falls, and haul the least capable 
climbers along as baggage. If this is the case, roll only 
six climbing checks for the party, using one half the 
best climber's climbing score. If any roll fails, each 
character in the group must roll a saving throw vs. pet 
rification. Success means the character suffers ld6 
points of damage from a minor scrape. Failure means 
the character suffers 6d6 points of damage from a 
major mishap (fall, landslide, etc.); if a character rolls a 
"1" he falls off the mountain and is killed unless he can 
employ magical means (fly spells, feather fall, etc.) to 
save himself. If foolhardy PCs try to climb the moun 
tain individually, they fail to find a route up the slope. 
Each character must roll a saving throw vs. death. Fail 
ure means the character died in the attempt; success 
means he got back down in one piece after ld4 days on 
the mountain. 

In addition, the party suffers ld3 rockfalls each day 
they spend climbing. These inflict 2d 10 points of dam 
age (a successful saving throw vs. breath weapon 
reduces the damage by half) and cause each character 
to make an immediate climbing check. 

If the PCs successfully climb the peak, they arrive 
near area 22, having climbed onto the cloud layer (see 
below). 





Uninvited Guests 


About the Maps 

The front of Card 2 shows the castle's exterior from 
the south. Card 5 shows an overhead view. 

The castle's interior consists of three major areas: the 
upper levels (Maps B3-B6), the main level (Map B7), 
and the lower levels (Maps B8 and B9). The areas 
shown in brown are small sections of mountainside 
that are outside the castle. The outer edges of these are 
about 35 feet lower than the areas inside the castle, and 
their inner edges are about 15 feet lower. 

In several places there are chimneys, which might 
give the PCs access to the castle. Each chimney is 
tagged with the area to which it leads and the vertical 
distance to the area. Tire small (square) chimneys are 
wide enough to admit tiny or small creatures; the large 
(rectangular) chimneys admit man-sized creatures. 
Creatures using the chimneys must climb, levitate, or 
be lowered on a rope. Flight is not possible unless the 
creature has class A maneuverability. Only rogues and 
skilled mountaineers can attempt to climb down a 
chimney without assistance. The combination of soot 
and condensation makes the chimney's interiors 
slightly slippery for climbing purposes (see PHB, 
Chapter 14). A failed climbing roll either sends the 
character plummeting into the fireplace below the 
chimney (50%) or traps him inside the chimney, 
wedged into place until rescued (50%). If a character 
falls, he suffers damage from the fall plus an extra ld6 
points of damage from hitting the contents of the fire 
place (andirons, pots, etc.). 

if there is a fire burning in the fireplace below the 
chimney (see the various area descriptions), the charac 
ter descending could be overcome by smoke if not pro 
tected against hostile environments (a necklace of adap 
tation, iridescent spindle ioun stone, or similar protection). 
An unprotected character must roll a saving throw vs. 
breath weapon each round. If the saving throw suc 
ceeds, the character can continue; if it fails, he must 
hold his breath until he exits the chimney (at either the 
bottom or the top). The characters dies if he cannot exit 
before his breath runs out (see PHB, Chapter 14). Even 
if the PC survives the descent, he is subject to damage 
from the fire (ld6 points per round of exposure). 

The area shown in light blue on map B7 is a perma 
nent layer of solid cloud. The cloud forms a bridge lead 
ing from one shoulder of the mountain to the front gate 
on the west side of the castle, and stretches off the map 
to the east; see The Cloud, page 77, for more details. 

If the PCs are flying, they can fry to enter the castle 
almost anywhere they wish. They cannot see any 


details such as entrances, however, until they come 
within 500 yards, which is close enough for the castle's 
lookouts to spot them (and fire at them with their bal- 
listae), unless they are invisible. Note that characters 
flying above the cloud layer cannot see the openings at 
areas 26 and 27; there is also a chance they'll encounter 
some of the castle's griffons (see areas 5 and 7). Those 
flying below the cloud layer cannot see the openings at 
areas 1, 3, 5,13, and 22. 

Events 

Before the party actually arrives, a number of events 
occur while they are in the vicinity of the castle. 

Exactly when they occur is up to you. Other events 
listed here include information on what happens if the 
PCs manage to get inside as guests. 

Where There's Smoke There's Fire 

This event cannot occur at night. Early morning is 
the most appropriate time. 

Tire fresh mountain breeze brings you a whiff of 
acrid smoke. It is pretty foul, as though someone is 
burning trash. You find yourself taking a quick look 
around, and you spot a tendril of black, oily smoke 
rising from some stunted trees below you. 

If the PCs investigate, they find a mixed group of 
ores and humans lolling around a clearing. They have 
built quite a conflagration out of several large back 
packs and bits of giant-sized furniture. Other packs 
filled with food and drink have been torn open, and 
their contents are scattered about on the grass. Bits of 
cloth and giant-sized clothing are strewn everywhere. 
Two dead fire giants lie at one end of the clearing. A 
few of the men, and most of the ores, appear to be 
elderly. (This is a side effect of all the haste effects Siiri 
used on them.) 

The ores and humans are a group of slaves carrying 
clothing, furniture, and supplies to the cloud giants' cas 
tle. Two fire giants were accompanying them as guards. 
Several days ago, a pair of silver dragons (see Cast of 
Characters) swooped over the group, scattering the 
slaves with their fear auras. The giants stood their 
ground and the dragons killed them. The dragons then 
hunted down a few fleeing slaves and questioned them. 

For their part, the slaves hid in the woods for several 
days, finally working up enough courage to go back to 



Uninvited Guests 


the clearing. When they found the giants dead, they 
decided to loot their packs and then escape. Neither 
the ores nor the humans want to be slaves again. 

The party can easily defeat the group but would be 
better off speaking with them. Everyone in the clearing 
is too stuffed with food anti drink to want a fight. Even 
the ores are feeling mellow. If the PCs attack, the group 
fights for a round or two, then tries to escape. 

The PCs can learn the following here if they ask the 
right questions: 

• "This stuff here? It used to belong to Siiri Dragosdot- 
tur, the meanest witch of a fire giantess there ever was. 
Drove us nearly to death she did. Last week three of 
our pals just dropped over dead. She could make a man 
or an ore move like lightning when she had a mind to." 

• "Siiri is up at yonder castle. She's getting her daugh 
ter hitched to some cloud giant. What a hoot!" 

• "Nope, we're not gonna pick up one scrap of this 
stuff. We're leavin' this place messy." 

• "The nine of us are off to find our fortunes. We sur 
vived Siiri, and we survived a dragon attack, and we 
can do anything." 



diligently working your way toward 
mountain when a shrill voice 
out of your skins. 

re yourselves or you're 
a muscle!" The owner of a voice 
twin tendrils of frost seeping 
seal seems to have sneaked 
a ridge or a cloud. He seems 
>, but he has his snout 
>'s less than 50 feel away. 


The dragon is Kieran, a very young silver dragon; he 
is the elder brother of Ariele, who is imprisoned in the 
castle. His parents Yavair and Zena told him to watch 
the lair while they were away, but the rambunctious 
Kieran just had to go scout the territory. He has been 
shadowing the party for about an hour, staying out of 
sight and working his way closer. If the PCs make any 
hostile moves, he breathes. He has the drop on the PCs 
and automatically wins initiative the first round if a 
fight breaks out. Kieran wants to know who the char 
acters are, what they are up to, and whether they hap 
pen to have taken his little sister captive. If the PCs 
attack, Kieran flees to the air. If the party decides to 
talk, he can relate the following: 


The group has little else to say. They are unwilling to 
lead the party either to the castle, which is barely in 
view on the horizon, or to the fire giant lair. They've 
had enough of giants. 

The slaves have looted 234 gp, 345 sp, and two 100 
gp gems from the giants. The giants had no wedding 
invitations because they are part of Siiri's retinue. 

Ores (5): AC 6 (studded leather & shield); MV 9 
(moderate encumbrance); HD 1; hp 3 each; THACO 19; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long sword); SZ M (6' tall); ML aver 
age (9); Int average (8); AL LE; XP 15 each; MM/281. 

Men (Human) (4): AC 6 (studded leather & shield); 
MV 9 (moderate encumbrance); HD 1; hp 3 each; 
THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long sword); SZ M (6' 
tall); ML average (9); Int average (8); AL LE; XP 15 
each; MM/196. 

Who Goes There? 


• "Mom and dad left me in charge while they're out 
looking for my sister. They think the giants have her. 
Do you like giants? I sure don't." 

• "There are lots of giants going up to the castle this 
week. There are mostly tall giants with white hair liv 
ing there, but there are dark giants with red hair there, 
too. Dad says some of the tall giants can be good, but I 
don't see how that can be." 

• "There were some others like you here yesterday. 
They had a rug that flew and they weren't nice at all, 
so I blasted them, but then they made the air really 
stink, so I flew away. They were kinda short, for 
humans, and kinda skinny. They seemed nice to look 
at, but they weren't nice at all." 

• "My sister's been gone for days and days and days. 
That's not really so long, but I've never been out that 
!ong." 


This event can take place anytime, day or night, 
before the party begins ascending the mountain 
toward the castle. 


• "My parents think my sister went to the castle to eat 
the silver in the cloud. It's really good to eat, but the 
giants get really mad. The giants are pretty clever. 






smarter than my stupid sister, so maybe they have her. 
They got flying cats with eagle heads that can fly 
almost as fast as me. They probably could have caught 
my sister. Her name is Ariele. At least, that's the name 
we use around strangers. Do you hate giants?" 

Kieran has no other useful information for the PCs. 
He will not reveal the location of his parents' lair under 
any circumstances. 

Once he has determined that the PCs are no friends 
to the giants in the castle, he takes Iris leave. He will 
not go anywhere near the castle, as his parents told 
him explicitly to stay away from it. 

Kieran (Dragon, Metallic, Silver): AC -1; MV 9, T1 30 
(C), Jp 3; HD 10; hp 44; THACO 11; #AT 3; Dmg ld8+2/ 
lD8+2/5d6+2 (claw/claw/bite); SA breath weapon; SD 
detect invisible objects and creatures within 20 feet, 
immune to cold; SZ L (18' body); ML fanatic (17); Int 
exceptional (15); AL LG; XP Nil; MM/79. 

Notes: Can polymorph self with an unlimited duration 
(maximum of three changes in form each day), and 
walk on clouds or fog as if they were solid ground. 

Breath weapon once every three rounds-cone of 
cold 5' wide at the dragon's mouth, 80' long, and 30' 
wide at the far end (creatures within the cone suffer 
4dl0+2 points of damage, save vs. breath weapon for 
half); or cloud of paralyzation gas 50' long, 40' wide, 
and 20' high (creatures within the cloud must save vs. 
breath weapon or become paralyzed ld8+2 rounds). 

Meeting the Exterminators 

A few days ago, Yavair and Zena attacked and slew 
a pair of stone giants who were on their way to the cas 
tle. The dragons took the giants' clothing and equip 
ment, including their wedding invitations, and pre 
sented themselves at the castle as the stone giants. 

The dragons pushed the stone giants' bodies over a 
cliff, but two other wedding guests, a pair of elves 
named Ciellan and Ruusa, have now found the grisly 
remains. They have landed their carpet of flying to 
study the corpses. They are trying to piece together 
what happened when the party comes upon them. 


S^Sg4g8|Sggg^. 

bodies are humanoid but at least three times as tall 
as a human, and gray skinned. They do not appear 
to have any clothing or equipment. A small carpet 
lies on the rocks near the bodies, but you'd guess 
that belongs to the elves. The elves seem to be 
studying the bodies and discussing some detail. 
Evidently they haven't noticed you yet. 

The elves are studying the bodies and wondering if 
the same silver dragon that attacked them could have 
killed these two giants. They have noticed the signs of 
frostbite on the giants bodies and are sure that a silver 
dragon must have been responsible. 

When the party makes its presence known, roll to 
see if the PCs surprise the elves. If they decide to 
ignore the elves, they can walk right on by and the 
elves will never notice. If the PCs speak lo the pair, the 
elves assume they are fellow r wedding guests. They 
make the following observations: 

• "It seems that a few of our compatriots have fallen 
afoul of the local wildlife. We saw one of the little mon 
sters, but it got away from us." 

• "Yeah, we're headed up to the castle for the wad 
ding. Odd thing isn't it? A cloud giant marrying a fire 
giant. Yurik won't be pleased to hear that he has a 
dragon problem." 

• "So, how do you know the family?" 

If the PCs can't give a satisfactory answer, or if they 
ask a question that betrays the fact that they are not 
guests, such as who Yurik is, Ciellan gets air evil smile 
on his face. 

• "So, headed lo the castle, but not on the guest list? 
That's fine. We can vouch for you. How much you 
gold you got?" 

• "Yeah, we're in tight with the giants. Real tight. If we 
say you're okay, we'll get you in. After something in 
particular? No, don't answer that. The giants owe us 
some money. Just let us get it and you can do whatever 
you want. We won't squeal." 


You are traveling around a sheer cliff with a pile of 
shattered rocks at the base when you notice that 
somebody has arrived here before you. Two elves, a 
male and a female, are studying a pair of large bod 
ies that seem to have fallen from the cliff above. The 


The elves are lying. They've never been to the castle 
before. They've received a commission to go spider 
hunting and have been invited to join the festivities as 
well. They want 250 gp from each PC and an addi 
tional 250 gp once they reach the castle. 

If the PCs pay, the elves accompany the party right 




up to the castle's front door (area 13). All is well until 
the elves get a look at the stone giants at a meal. See 
the next event for details. 

If the PCs don't pay, the elves attack. If the charac 
ters attack, they can defeat the elves, though probably 
not before Ruusa uses her zvand of vapors on them at 
least once. The pair begins with spell and missile 
attacks on the party, then tries to escape on their carpet 
of flying when they realize they are overmatched. 

If the PCs defeat the elves and search them, they find 
their invitation and can use it to get inside the castle. 

Ciellan, em, F10/T11: AC 0 (leather armor +2, boots of 
striding and springing, and Dexterity bonus); MV 12 
(lightly encumbered); hp 57; THACO 11 (9 when 
employing missiles), (8 with long sivord +3); #AT 3/2 or 
2; Dmg ld8+4 (long sivord +3 + Strength bonus) or 
ld8/ld8 (long bow and sheaf arrows); SA thief abilities; 
SD 90% resistance to sleep and charm spells, stoneskin 
spell; SZ M (5' 4" tall); ML elite (14); AL LE; XP 4,000. 

Notes: Successful backstab attack quadruples the 
damage die roll. 

S 16, D 18, C 15,110, W 11, Ch 11. 

Personality: Calculating, unscrupulous, greedy. 

Thief Abilities: PP 60, OL 50, F/RT 50, MS 90, HS 90, 
DN 80, CW 80, RL 50. 

Special Equipment: 20 sheaf arrows, leather armor +2, 
long sword +3 spider slayer (LN, no other special abili 
ties), cloak ofarachnida, boots of striding and springing, 
commission to hunt spiders, and wedding invitation 
for two elves, Ciellan and Ruusa. 

Ruusa, ef, C9/M10: AC 1 (bracers of defense AC 2 and 
Dexterity bonus); MV 12 (lightly encumbered); hp 29; 
THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg ld6+l (footman's mace); SA 
spells; SD 90% resistance to sleep and charm spells; SZ 
M (5' 3" tall); ML elite (14); AL LE; XP 5,000. 

S 13, D 15, C 15,116, W 17, Ch 11. 

Personality: Stubborn, vain, cruel. 

Spells (6/6/4/3)/(4/4/3/2/2): 1st -command (x2), cure 
light wounds (x2), curse, detect magic, 2nd- augury, 
enthrall, find traps, silence 15' radius (x2), spiritual 
hammer; 3rd- disp>el magic, feign death, prayer, pyrotech 
nics / 1st- enlarge, magic missile (x3); 2nd- invisibility, 
mirror image, strength, web; 3rd -invisibility 10' radius, 
lightning bolt, slow; 4th -improved invisibility, stoneskin*; 
5th -monster summoning III, cone of cold. 

* Precast spell (on Ciellan). 

Special Equipment: carpet of flying (4'x6'), zvand of 
vapors (41 charges), bracers of defense AC 2. 


Dinner is Served 

Run this event only if the PCs bluffed their way into 
the castle using Ciellan and Ruusa's invitation or if the 
characters paid the elves to vouch for them. 

When the PCs approach area 13, the guard holds 
them at the door for a few minutes, as their invitation 
is unusual. Yurik comes to the door and asks what is 
going on. He expected only two elves, not a party of 
armed adventurers. If the elves are present, they 
explain that they brought extra help because this is a 
big job. If the elves are not present, the PCs have to 
come up with an explanation. They can simply explain 
that Ciellan and Ruusa were indisposed and they had 
to come in their place; Yurik is satisfied with that. 

(Note that this would not be a lie.) In either case, Yurik 
wants to see the famous sword Spider Slayer. If the 
group shows the giant the sword, all is well. 

Once the characters have established their creden 
tials, they are led to the great hall (area 16). The group 
is either bidden to sleep (at night), or given a tour of 
area 23. 

If the PCs are invited to sleep, they won't get much 
rest with all the giants snoring in the room. The "stone 
giants" are pretending to sleep on the easternmost 
bench in the chamber and are out of sight. If the party 
takes this opportunity to go sneaking through the cas 
tle, it is likely that some sort of commotion will break 
out before the next meal is served. 

If the PCs take the tour, they have an escort until it's 
time to eat. 

If the characters make it to mealtime without trigger 
ing an alarm, they are seated at the head table near 
Siiri. The giants have two tall stools that they planned 
to put in place of the two end chairs; these would 
allow the human-sized characters to sit at the head 
table. They weren't expecting a whole party, however, 
so they put a board across the two stools and place the 
PCs on the south side of the table, across from Siiri, 
since they are exterminators invited to please her. Siiri 
wants very much to speak with the holder of Spider 
Slayer, so Diomed's old high chair is hauled out of stor 
age and placed at the east end of the table for that char 
acter. The PC looks silly, but he and Siiri can converse. 

If Ciellan and Ruusa are not present, Siiri wants to 
tell the PC who has the sword what an awful time 
she's been having with the vermin in this castle: 

• "I'm telling you, the spiders in this place are unbe 
lievable. I mean, Yurik said he has spiders, but this is 
ridiculous. Some of them even have wolf heads!" 





Uninvited Guests 


• "One foul little beast tried to crawl right into my hair 
one night. It was awful! You'll kill any more of the 
beasts won't you?" 

• "Actually this whole mountain is crawling with 
eight-legged monsters! Last month I was driving a 
group of slaves up here and a grotesque spider with a 
pair of arms attacked us. It must be some side effect 
from the magical cloud." 

At this point the food is served and Siiri falls silent 
for awhile as she eats a huge slab of meat that is 
charred on the outside and raw inside. The PCs are 
served a flavorful stew that is quite delicious. Nalani 
rescues the PCs from any further harassment from Siiri 
by explaining how the castle gets its provisions from 
the cloud gardens they saw earlier. 

If, however, Ciellan and Ruusa are with the group, 
things go quite differently. The elves' eyes bug out 
when they see the "stone giants" seated at the eastern 
table. The PCs notice both elves staring at the giants 
suspiciously all through the meal. Eventually, "Cherta" 
feigns some discomfort, and both giants retire to the 
privies (area 21); they have noticed the elves staring at 
them and decided to make an exit. When the "stone 
giants" are gone, Ciellan leaps to the table and rushes 
across the tabletop to Yurik, where he whispers some 
thing in the giant's ear. (Ciellan is telling Yurik about 
the two dead stone giants he saw.) Yurik barks a few 
orders, and two pairs of giants leap to guard the east 
and west exits from the hall. (They don't bother to 
guard the doors to areas 17 and 19.) Yurik calmly 
announces that there are traitors in the castle and bids 
Siiri, Jytte, and Nalani to go to downstairs; they imme 
diately proceed to area 27. If the PCs don't panic 
because they think they're the ones who've been dis 
covered, a few tense minutes of waiting go by, and 
then two giants go and kick in the door to area 21, 
which appears to be empty. The dragons have polymor- 
phed themselves into pixies and cast their invisibility 
spells. They are hiding in the cesspit. If detected, they 
escape out the chute. 

In any case, the PCs are allowed free access to the 
castle if they survive this event undetected. 

Dragon Attack 

If the dragons are forced to escape, they return the 
next morning and attack the giants in area 23. If the 
PCs are there, they could be caught in the breath 
weapons. The dragons make three passes, doing their 


best to slay as many giants as they can. After that, 
enough boulder-tossing giants gather to discourage 
further attacks, but the dragons use the confusion to 
infiltrate the castle invisibly again. 

Escape! 

Two days after the Dinner is Served event, alarm 
bells ring. It is morning, and the lion keeper did not 
arrive for breakfast. An investigation reveals his frozen 
corpse in his room. Yavair and Zena found Ariele and 
escaped, killing the lion keeper and every lion in area 
28. An immediate search for infiltrators commences, 
with Siiri checking out all the guests with her detect 
magic spell. Characters magically masquerading as 
elves could be in trouble here. 

Inside the Castle 

Most areas in the castle are lit, either with natural 
light from windows or arrow slits or with continual 
light spells placed on iron batons, which are spaced 
along the walls just like torches. At night, most contin 
ual light spells are covered. Except where noted, ceil 
ings inside the castle are 30 feet high in corridors and 
40 feet high in chambers. Most walls within the castle 
are smooth and dry. The mountainside outside the cas 
tle is a bare rock face. 

Most doors are well maintained and open easily for 
creatures with a cloud giant's or fire giant's strength 
and mass. Smaller creatures must make a successful 
open doors roll. Exceptions are noted in the text. 

Windows are made up of many small panes of 
translucent glass behind a grille of thick iron bars. It 
takes three successful bend bars/lift gates rolls to 
destroy the grille. The glass can be smashed easily. 

The Cloud 

A permanent cloud bridge extends some 300 yards 
from the front gate west to a lower spur of the moun 
tain; the eastern end forms a disc roughly a half mile 
across, which supports extensive gardens and mines. 

The cloud itself is about 30 feet thick and as strong as 
solid rock, though a character's feet seem to sink in a 
little when walking on it. A PC can reach down and 
pick up a tuft of cloud as easily as he can pick up a 
handful of sand; however, the vapor soon runs 
through his fingers to rejoin the main cloud mass, leav 
ing a small puddle of water behind. Characters can use 
shovels and other implements to dig into the cloud. 



Uninvited Guests 


but any hole they dig fills itself at the rate of about one 
cubic foot every five minutes. 

Most spells that affect rock affect the cloud. Dig and 
passwall work normally. Earthquake causes the surface 
of the cloud to roll and surge like the ocean during a 
storm; creatures walking on it must roll successful sav 
ing throws vs. death or fall through the cloud to the 
ground for 20d6 points of damage (Dexterity bonuses 
apply to the saving throw). Spells that affect water, 
such as part water and transmute water to dust, have no 
effect on the cloud. 

A silver dragon's cloud walking ability allows it to 
either walk upon the cloud's surface or fly through it 
as though it were normal vapor. 

The cloud is magical, and a dispel magic spell cast 
directly at it causes an area 30 feet across to become 
normal vapor for one round. Anyone standing in the 
area must roll a successful saving throw vs. petrifica 
tion or fall through. If the saving throw is successful, 
the character is assumed to reach solid cloud before the 
area under his feet changes completely. 

The Cast of Characters 

Several of the castle's denizens move about during 
their daily routine, and the party might encounter them 
in several different places. For convenience, informa 
tion on these creatures is presented here. Descriptions 
of additional, more sedentary residents are included in 
the descriptions of the areas they occupy. 

Yurik and Nalani Kolophon: The castle's owners and 
parents of the groom. The couple agreed to marry their 
son off to Siiri's daughter to help secure an alliance 
between them and the more numerous fire giants. The 
couple is not particularly fond of fire giants, but would 
rather have them as allies than as enemies. 

The couple invited two stone giants from a nearby 
group to witness the ceremony and perhaps join the 
alliance. Two members of the tribe have replied to the 
invitation, much to the cloud giants' disappointment. 
The only other guests are Siiri's guards and a pair of 
evil elves, Ciellan and Ruusa, that the couple knows by 
reputation (see the Events section). The cloud giants 
hope the elves can help alleviate a problem Siiri has 
been reporting; it seems that she has been plagued by 
spiders during her recent visits to the castle. 

Yurik and Nalani wrote the wedding invitations 
themselves and dispatched them by griffon-mounted 
courier. They know their own handwriting and per 
sonal seals very well and immediately recognize 


forged invitations (though even crude forgeries fool 
their servants). However, they have never met the two 
elves. They know about Ciellan's famous spider slay 
ing sword and ask to see it if the PCs come to the castle 
pretending to be the elves. Any other ruse the PCs try 
fails unless the group can charm or control the couple. 

During the day, Yurik and Nalani split their time 
between the gardens (area 23), the great hall (area 16), 
and their quarters (area 27). They are in the great hall 
at mealtimes. In the mornings and at night, they typi 
cally can be found in their chambers, and they usually 
spend the afternoon in the gardens. 

Yurik and Nalani (Giant, Cloud): AC -3 (Yurik), 0 
(Nalani); MV 15; HD 16+2-7; hp 81 each; THACO 5; 
#AT 1 or 1; Dmg 6d4+ll (oversized morningstar + 
Strength bonus) or 2dl2 (hurled boulder); SA hurling 
boulders; SD +2 bonus to surprise rolls; SZ H (24' tall); 
ML fanatic (17); Int very (12); AL NE; XP 10,000 each; 
MM/132. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and maximum range of 240 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 60% of the time. 

Special Equipment: Yurik wears a platinum headband 
worth 2,500 gp, two golden armbands worth 500 gp 
each, a silver and ivory belt buckle worth 750 gp, a 
platinum ring set with a diamond worth 3,000 gp, and 
a ring of protection +3. Nalani wears a golden circlet set 
with pearls worth 1,000 gp, a silver and turquoise 
necklace worth 1,200 gp, platinum earrings set with 
jade and emeralds worth 2,000 gp, and two golden 
rings set with onyx and topaz worth 1,000 gp each. 

Siiri Dragosdottur: The current owner of the third seg 
ment of the Rod, mother of the bride, and witch doctor. 
The extreme lawful tendencies the Rod imposes have 
made her a determined schemer and busybody. She 
also has a passion for neatness that has made her an 
infamous fussbudget among her own people. She sees 
the impending alliance between her tribe and the 
Kolophons as a great stride forward for law. 

Siiri makes it a point to accompany Yurik when he 
goes to the garden in the afternoon. When he is in his 
chamber, Siiri spends most of her time in her own 
chamber, fussing with her hair and with her daugh 
ter's hair. During the day there is a 60% chance that 
Siiri is in her room; otherwise, she is in Diomed's room 
(area 26) fussing with the decor. Siiri never misses a 
meal; there is a 100% chance she is in the great hall at 
mealtimes. At night Siiri is in her own room. 

Siiri's frequent use of the Rod's haste power has 






Uninvited Guests 


drawn several kakkuu to the area, and she is con 
vinced that the castle is overrun with vermin. 

Siiri Dragosdottur (Giant, Fire): AC -1 (banded 
mail) or 5 (no armor); MV 12 (moderately encum 
bered); HD 15+2-5; hp 75; THACO 5; #AT 1 or 1; Dmg 
2d 10+10 (oversized two-handed sword + Strength 
bonus) or 2dl0 (hurled boulder); SA spells, hurling 
boulders; SD fire resistance; SZ H (18' tall); ML cham 
pion (16); Int average (10); AL LE; XP 8,000; MM/137. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and maximum range of 200 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 50% of the time. 

Immune to all forms of nonmagical fire and to fiery 
breath weapons. Magical fire attacks inflict -1 hit point 
per die of damage (no minimum per die; a roll of 1 
inflicts no damage). 

Spells (3/3,12/1)1(211): 1st- command (x2), detect magic; 
2nd- augury, enthrall, silence 15'radius; 3rd- dispel 
magic, prayer; 4th level- detect lie / 1st- color spray, 
shield; 2nd- detect invisibility. 

Flint and Cherta: Supposedly two representatives 
from the local tribe of stone giants. In fact, they are 
Yavair and Zena, two polymorphed silver dragons 



who have come looking for their daughter. The young 
dragon has been missing for a week, and the parents 
fear the worst. They ambushed and killed a pair of 
stone giants near the castle, then quickly appropriated 
their clothing and equipment so they could reconnoiter 
the castle. Thus far, they have managed the masquer 
ade, but it cannot continue much longer. 

Yavair and Zena follow the same basic schedule that 
Yurik and Nalani do. They are in the great hall (posing 
as giants) at mealtimes. When Yurik and Nalani are in 
area 23, the dragons are there too, still posing as giants. 
While Yurik and Nalani are in their chamber, the drag 
ons are prowling the castle in ogre form trying to dis 
cover where their daughter is. If they are wandering 
about when the PCs are in the castle, there is a 10% 
chance each turn that they will stumble into the party. 

The dragons have no interest in the Rod and little 
interest in the alliance between giants; their only goal is 
to find their child and return home. If the party attacks 
them (and well they might since they look like ogres), 
the dragons surrender, then ask why the party 
attacked. They are initially afraid that the PCs discov 
ered their ruse, but as soon as it becomes clear that the 
characters are after something else, the dragons admit 
who they are. If the PCs mention the fact that the Rod 
makes its holder lawful, the dragons tell them Siiri 
must be the one who has it and direct them to area 24. 
The dragons are unwilling to start a battle with the 
giants inside the castle; their inability to fly within the 
castle's confines makes them nervous. They'll agree to 
a fight only if it could lead directly to getting their 
daughter back. Otherwise, the dragons wish the PCs 
luck and promise to give them what help they can, as 
long as it won't jeopardize their own mission. 

Yavair and Zena (Dragon, Metallic, Silver): AC -4 

or 0 in giant form; MV 9, FI 30 (C), Jp 3 or 12 in giant 
form; HD 16; hp 80 each; THACO 5; #AT 3 or 1 in 
human form; Dmg ld8+5/ld8+5/5d6+5 
(claw/claw/bite) or 2d4 in giant form (club); SA spells 
as an 11th level caster, spell-like abilities, breath 
weapon, fear; SD detect invisible objects and creatures 
within 50 feet, immune to cold; MR 25%; SZ H (60' 
body), M (in human form); ML fanatic (18); Int excep 
tional (15); AL LG; XP Nil; MM/79. 

Notes: Can polymorph self with an unlimited duration 
(maximum of three changes in form each day), and 
walk on clouds or fog as if they were solid ground (can 
be activated or negated at will). Breath weapon once 
every three rounds-cone of cold 5' wide at the 
dragon's mouth, 80' long, and 30' wide at the far end; 



Uninvited Guests 


creatures within the cone suffer 10dl0+5 points of 
damage (save vs. breath weapon for half), or cloud of 
paralyzation gas 50' long, 40' wide, and 20' high; crea 
tures within the cloud must save vs. breath weapon of 
become paralyzed ld8+5 rounds. 

Can kick with back feet for ld8+5 points of damage; 
any creature struck must pass a Dexterity check or be 
knocked back ld6+5 feet. Creatures knocked back 
must save vs. petrification at -5 or fall down. Can buf 
fet with wings for ld8+5 points of damage; creatures 
struck must pass a Dexterity check or fall down. Can 
slap up to five creatures with tail for 2d8+10 points of 
damage (roll a separate attack for each). Creatures 
struck must save vs. petrification at -5 or be stunned 
for ld4+l rounds. 

Causes fear in a 15-yard radius; all creatures of 1 hit 
die or less and all noncarnivores of 15 hit dice or less 
flee in panic for 4d6 rounds unless part of a formed 
military unit. Creatures not automatically panicked 
save vs. petrification with a +3 bonus. If the save fails, 
the creatures are stricken with fear and fight with a -2 
penalty on attack and damage rolls for 4d6 rounds. 

Spell like abilities (11th level): feather fall (twice a 
day), wall of fog (once a day). 

Spells (Yavair) (2/2): 1st -charm person, spook; 2nd- 
invisibility, shatter. 

Spells (Zena) (2/2): 1st- alarm, shield; 2nd- invisibility, 
pyrotechnics. 

Upper Levels 

These areas are primarily devoted to defense. The 
rooms and hallways, with their bare stone walls, floors, 
and ceilings, are almost as chilly and drafty as the 
mountainside itself. 

If the PCs don't alert the sentries in areas 2 and 12, 
there's a good chance that the giants on the lower levels 
won't notice anything amiss. The giants are preoccu 
pied with the upcoming wedding and are depending 
on their guards and servants to alert them to danger. 

The trolls on these levels are overworked, unpaid, 
and underfed. They are too ferocious to surrender but 
will respond to attempts to parley. They are not par 
ticularly loyal to the giants and gladly will tell the 
PCs everything they know if questioned, provided 
that the PCs agree not to burn them and that there are 
no giants in the vicinity. Unfortunately for the PCs, 
they know very little: 

• The place is overrun with giants now that Diomed is 
getting married. 


• Diomed is the boss's oldest son. He's getting married 
to Firehair. 

"Firehair" is the trolls' name for Siiri's daughter, 
Jytte. The trolls think Siiri and Jytte are ugly because 
they look like big dwarves with fiery hair. Just thinking 
about these two fire giants makes the trolls shudder. 

• There are at least two "hands" (ten) giants on the 
level below. Mostly "tall, fair ones" (cloud giants), and 
some more of "Firehair's tribe" (fire giants), plus the 
"stonefaces" (stone giants) and "a few guys like you" 
(humans) are expected. Everybody has come for the 
wedding. 

• The trolls are hoping to get the bones from the feast 
tomorrow night. The boss and his lady are going to kill 
the big shiny lizard they caught and then cook it 
tomorrow. The important guests get to watch the 
killing. 

The trolls are referring to the captive silver dragon; 
see area 30 for details. 

The cloud giants on these levels are less cooperative, 
trying to escape if they can. They raise the alarm at the 
first opportunity; they are merely trying to save their 
own skins. 

If the PCs ask about the silver lizard, the giants say 
only that a small vermin was caught recently and is to 
be included in the wedding night's meal. They don't 
know exactly what it looks like. (The giant's know it's 
a silver dragon, but won't admit it. They literally don't 
know what it looks like because it can polymorph 
itself. They have seen it, however.) 

1. Lookout Turret 

From here, four trolls keep a constant watch for fly 
ing intruders. The turret has a peaked roof supported 
by stout timbers and covered with thick planks 
sheathed in smooth slates. The roof is sturdy and can 
bear considerable weight, but the slates readily break 
loose and cause any creature landing on the roof to 
slide off. 

The turret has no windows, just open spaces (embra 
sures) about 8 feet high and 6 feet wide between the 
merlons. Man-sized creatures can easily move through 
the embrasures, but the trolls will see them coming. 
Even if the PCs are invisible, the nearest troll gets a 
chance to detect them (see DMG, Chapter 13) as they 
pass through the openings. 

The trolls have 75% cover against attacks launched 






Uninvited Guests 


from outside the turret when attacking or 90% cover if 
they hunker down (see DMG, Chapter 9). 

Besides the trolls, the turret contains three ballistae, 
three stacks of eight ballista bolts, and an alarm bell. 
There are two trap doors in the floor. One leads down 
to area 2; the other leads to area 3. The trolls can use 
them with an open doors roll, as can any creatures 
with a Strength score of at least 18/75. 

The trolls are fond of taking potshots with their bal 
listae at anything that comes within range, no matter 
how small or harmless it looks. If anything dangerous 
looking gets within 100 yards of the mountain, the 
trolls ring their alarm bell. 

Alert: The sentry in area 2 may join in a fight here if 
the bell is rung, or if sounds of combat grow loud. 

Trolls (4): AC 4; MV 12; HD 6+6; hp 36 each; THACO 
13; #AT 3 or 3; Dmg ld4+4/ld4+4/ld8+4 (claw/claw/ 
bite) or ld3+8/ld3+8/ld3+8 (darts + Strength bonus); 
SD regeneration; SW slashing weapons can sever 
limbs, fire or acid prevents regeneration; SZ L (9' tall); 
ML elite (14); Int low (7); AL CE; XP 1,400 each; 
MM/349. 

Notes: Any edged weapon can sever a troll's limb on 
a roll of a natural 20. Severed limbs continue to fight. A 
troll regenerates 3 hit points a round, starting the third 
round after damage is inflicted. A troll cannot regener 
ate damage inflicted by fire or acid. 

When firing a ballista, the trolls have a THACO of 12 
and armor is ignored; all targets are AC 10, with adjust 
ments for dexterity and magic. Moving targets get an 
additional bonus of +3 to armor class. A ballista has a 
range of 11/22/33, and a hit inflicts 2d6 points of dam 
age. The rate of fire is one every four rounds (increased 
rate of fire due to the trolls' size and Strength). 

Special Equipment: Nine darts each. 

2. Sentry 

This chamber has a trap door 15 feet square, a ladder 
leading up to area 1, and an alarm bell. A bored cloud 
giant is on duty here, keeping an eye on area 3 through 
the many slits in the walls and listening for trouble in 
area 1. The giant isn't very alert, but he quickly snaps 
out of his lethargy if the trolls in area 3 get involved in a 
fight. The giant has grown accustomed to the trolls' 
habit of firing their ballistae at anything they can reach, 
so he ignores anything going on outside unless the trolls 
call for help or a flashy spell effect strikes the castle. 

If trouble arises, the giant is supposed to ring his 
alarm bell. The giant, however, gets excited and forgets 


his orders if surprised. Roll normally for surprise if the 
trolls in area 1 ring their bell. The giant rings his bell as 
ordered if not surprised; otherwise he rushes through 
the secret door (see below) and tries to get a look at 
what's happening. 

The section of wall marked with an "S" is a secret 
door that swings open as indicated to allow the giant 
access to area 3. The giant can open it with a hard 
shove, but the PCs must use a knock spell or make a 
successful bend bars/lift gates roll. Likewise, the giant 
can easily open the trap door, which leads to area 12, 
but the PCs must makes a successful bend bars/lift 
gates roll or chop through the door. The door is armor 
class 6 and has 40 hit points. It suffers only one point of 
damage from bludgeoning or piercing weapons. 

Alert: The alarm bell here is connected by ropes to 
bells in areas 12 and 15. If the bell is rung, the troll in 
area 12 notifies the griffon keeper, who marshals the 
forces throughout his level, grabbing the trolls in areas 
9 and 11 and preparing to counterattack. In area 15, 
one of the ogre guards finds Yurik and Nalani, who 
organize the castle's defenses in the great hall. See area 
16 for more information. 

Cloud Giant: AC 0; MV 15; HD 16+2-7; hp 81; 
THACO 5; #AT 1; Dmg 6d4+ll (oversized morningstar 
+ Strength bonus), 3d6+ll (oversized pike + Strength 
bonus), or 2dl2 (hurled boulder); SA hurling boulders; 
SD +2 bonus to surprise rolls; SZ H (24' tall); ML 
fanatic (17); Int very (12); AL NE; XP 10,000; MM/132. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and maximum range of 240 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 60% of the time. 

Special Equipment: Shoulder sack containing three 
throwing boulders and 213 gp. 

3. Upper Turrets 

Ten trolls keep watch from these five turrets linked 
by a parapet (two trolls per turret). The battlement sur 
rounding the area gives the trolls 50% cover against 
attacks launched from outside the castle when they are 
attacking or 100% cover if they hunker down (see 
DMG, Chapter 9). 

Like the trolls in area 1, these creatures tend to take 
ballista shots at anything with range. They become 
alarmed only if the target shoots back. 

Alert: The sentry in area 2 joins in a melee here from 
his hiding place. Using a pike, the giant stabs through 
the slits at the enemy. The pike can reach anywhere in 
area 3 except the outermost 10 feet of the turrets, and 



Uninvited Guests 


the giant can use it to reach over a troll and attack a 
character engaged with the troll at no penalty. When in 
his room, the giant has 90% cover vs. attacks coming 
from area 3 (see DMG, Chapter 9). 

Trolls (10): AC 4; MV 12; HD 6+6; h P 36 each; 
THACO 13; #AT 3 or 3; Dmg ld4+4/ld4+4/ld8+4 
(claw/claw/bite) or ld3+8/ld3+8/ld3+8 (darts + 
Strength bonus); SD regeneration; SW slashing weap 
ons can sever limbs, fire or acid prevents regeneration; 
SZ L (9' tall); ML elite (14); Int low (7); AL CE; XP 1,400 
each; MM/349. 

Notes: Any edged weapon can sever a troll's limb on 
a roll of a natural 20. Severed limbs continue to fight. A 
troll regenerates 3 hit points a round, starting the third 
round after damage is inflicted. A troll cannot regener 
ate damage inflicted by fire or acid. 

When firing a ballista, the trolls have a THACO of 12 
and armor is ignored; all targets are AC 10, with adjust 
ments for Dexterity and magic. Moving targets get an 
additional bonus of +3 to armor class. A ballista has a 
range of 11/22/33, and a hit inflicts 2d6 points of dam 
age. The rate of fire is one every four rounds (increased 
rate of fire due to the trolls' size and Strength). 

Special Equipment: Nine darts each. 

4. Murder Holes 

This cramped (by cloud giant standards) cavern is 
right above area 6, and it provides a nasty surprise for 
anyone entering the castle uninvited. 

The trap door leads to area 9. It is as sturdy and diffi 
cult to open as the one in area 2. 

Cloud Giant: AC 0; MV 15; HD 16+2-7; hp 81; 
THACO 5; #AT 1; Dmg 6d4+ll (oversized momingstar 
+ Strength bonus), 3d6+ll (oversized pike + Strength 
bonus), or 2dl2 (hurled boulder); SA hurling boulders; 
SD +2 bonus to surprise rolls; SZ H (24' tall); ML 
fanatic (17); Int very (12); AL NE; XP 10,000; MM/132. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and maximum range of 240 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 60% of the time. 

5. Lower Turrets 

Two trolls keep a constant watch from each turret 
in this area. Like their comrades, they tend to take pot 
shots with their ballistae at anything that comes 
within range. If attacked, the trolls whoop and shout. 

Alert: Noise has a 40% chance each round to alert 


the guards at areas 9 and 12 and the cloud giants at 
areas 4 and 8. Moreover, there is a 20% chance that 
the griffon keeper from area 8 is out on the parapet 
(just outside area 6) exercising ld4 of the griffons 
from area 7. See area 8 for details. If here, he orders 
his griffons to attack and bellows to the guards in 
areas 4, 9, and 12, ordering them to raise the alarm 
and stand to the castle's defense. The trolls in areas 9 
and 12 do just that, rousing the trolls in area 11 in the 
process. The cloud giant in area 4 rushes down from 
his murder holes and comes to the parapet, picking 
up two rocks from area 9 on the way. Also, if anyone 
dashes past the trolls, they use the lever just north of 
the portcullis to release it and trap the invaders in 
area 6, where the giants in area 4 and 8 can attack. 

Trolls (4): AC 4; MV 12; HD 6+6; hp 36 each; THACO 
13; #AT 3 or 3; Dmg ld4+4/ld4+4/ld8+4 (claw/claw/ 
bite) or ld3+8/ld3+8/ld3+8 (darts + Strength bonus); 
SD regeneration; SW slashing weapons can sever 
limbs, fire or acid prevents regeneration; SZ L (9' tall); 
ML elite (14); Int low (7); AL CE; XP 1,400 each; 
MM/349. 

Notes: Any edged weapon can sever a troll's limb on 
a roll of a natural 20. Severed limbs continue to fight. A 
troll regenerates 3 hit points a round, starting the third 
round after damage is inflicted. A troll cannot regener 
ate damage inflicted by fire or acid. 

When firing a ballista, the trolls have a THACO of 12 
and armor is ignored; all targets are AC 10, with adjust 
ments for Dexterity and magic. Moving targets get an 
additional bonus of +3 to armor class. A ballista has a 
range of 11/22/33, and a hit inflicts 2d6 points of dam 
age. The rate of fire is one every four rounds (increased 
rate of fire due to the trolls' size and Strength). 

Special Equipment: Nine darts each. 

6. Upper Entrance 

This chamber serves as a landing and takeoff area 
for the griffons in area 7. Tactical Map FI shows part of 
the battlement and the eastern end of the chamber. 

The inner (west) portcullis is always kept down, but 
the outer (east) portcullis usually is up. The 
portcullises are not fitted with winches. It takes a cloud 
giant two rounds to lift a portcullis and lock it into 
place. Smaller creatures must attempt a bend bars/lift 
gates roll to lift them. The portcullises must be raised 
at least 24 feet off the floor before they can be locked in 
the up position. Once locked, they can be dropped 
again by pulling one of the levers. Each lever affects 




Uni nvited G nests 


only the portcullis closest to it. 

Alert: At the first sign of trouble, the cloud giant 
guard stationed in area 4 attacks with a pike. The two 
murder holes allow him to reach anywhere in area 6. 
The giant has 90% cover against counterattacks coming 
from area 6 (see DMG, Chapter 9). 

7. Mews 

This area is home to the castle's eight griffons. The 
two small chambers to the west each hold a single grif 
fon, the two to the east each hold two griffons, and the 
large chamber to the north holds a mated pair of grif 
fons that are incubating three eggs. These two griffons 
are very aggressive and fight to the death to protect 
their eggs. 

The portcullises here work the same way as the ones 
in area 6 do. Normally, they are all down. 

At a command from the keeper, flying griffons 
attack anything they can see. The giants keep the grif 
fons as pets and hunting animals, much like humans 
keep falcons. The griffons occasionally serve as steeds 
for the giants' ogre servants when they need to run 
errands or deliver messages outside the castle. The 
griffons will not willingly allow PCs to ride them, but 
if charmed they could be used to make a quick escape 
from the castle. 

Alert: If the griffon keeper is not on the parapet 
with his pets, he may be grooming them here (50% 
chance, see area 8). In that case, all the portcullises 
except for the southern one are open. The keeper is 
largely oblivious to what is going on around him 
because he is absorbed in his task. If someone raises 
the alarm, he creeps out, hoping to catch the invaders 
from behind. If caught here, he fights as well as he 
can, but retreats north when he is reduced to 50 hit 
points or less. He hopes the attackers will expose 
their flanks to the griffons. 

Griffons (8): AC 3; MV 12, FI 30 (C); HD 7; hp 35 
each; THACO 13; #AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/2d8 (claw/ 
claw/bite); SZ L (about 9' long); ML steady (11); Int 
semi (3); AL N; XP 650 each; MM/178. 

Notes: Can carry up to 210 pounds with no loss of 
speed or maneuverability. Can carry up to 35 pounds 
and still fly at speed 20 (D). 

8. Griffon Keeper's Quarters 

The castle's griffon keeper, a battle-hardened veteran 
with a crooked jaw and a scarred face, lives here. He is 


nominally in charge of the whole level. He is often out 
on the parapet near area 5 exercising his griffons (20% 
chance). Otherwise, he is either in area 7 grooming his 
charges or in here relaxing on his bed (50% chance of 
either). He prefers the company of his griffons to that 
of other giants, so he remains aloof from the festivities 
below, even though he is an important member of the 
household. 

If the keeper is resting, it takes him ld3 rounds to 
wake up once any disturbance begins. If the PCs enter 
the room, however, he awakens (normal chance for 
surprise). If attacked in his room, the keeper grabs his 
weapons and swats the PCs, shouting loudly the 
whole time. 

The keeper's chamber contains a giant-sized bed, 
two great chests, a fireplace, and a rug made from cave 
bear skins. A huge morningstar +3 and a pike lean 
against the east wall. A 40-foot leather whip hangs 
from a hook next to the fireplace. 

The bed has a lumpy mattress stuffed with peryton 
and giant eagle feathers. Buried in the mass of feathers 
is a golden coronet studded with garnets; it is worth 
8,000 gp. It takes a full turn of searching to find it once 
the mattress has been ripped open. The rug is worth 
3,000 gp if recovered intact. The workmanship is 
crude, however, and if turned over to a skilled tailor or 
rug maker, it can be turned into a truly fine piece 
worth 5,000 gp after three weeks of work. 

One chest holds the giant's possessions and equip 
ment, including 1,450 gp and a gold-lined drinking 
horn decorated with sunstones worth 2,000 gp. The 
other chest holds tack and harness for saddling two 
griffons. The gear is designed for ogres, but humans 
could make do with it in a pinch. 

Alert: Any griffons that are still alive scream fiercely 
when they hear the keeper's voice. The noise alerts 
everyone on the upper levels and has a 25% chance to 
draw attention from the lower level each round it con 
tinues. The trolls in areas 9,11, and 12 raise the alarm 
in any event and then counterattack. 

Cloud Giant: AC 0; MV 15; HD 16+2-7; hp 81; 
THACO 5 (2 with morningstar +3); #AT 1; Dmg 6d4+14 
(oversized morningstar +3 + Strength bonus), 3d6+ll 
(oversized pike + Strength bonus), or 2dl2 (hurled 
boulder); SA hurling boulders; SD +2 bonus to surprise 
rolls; SZ H (24' tall); ML fanatic (17); Int very (12); AL 
NE; XP 10,000; MM/132. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and maximum range of 240 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 60% of the time. 




9. Central Guardpost 

One troll always stands guard here. It rings the 
alarm bell hanging in this chamber at the first sign of 
trouble, then joins the fray. 

Troll: AC 4; MV 12; HD 6+6; hp 36; THACO 13; #AT 
3 or 3; Dmg ld4+4/ld4+4/ld8+4 (claw/claw/bite) or 
ld3+8/ld3+8/ld3+8 (darts + Strength bonus); SD 
regeneration; SW slashing weapons can sever limbs, 
fire or acid prevents regeneration; SZ L (9' tall); ML 
elite (14); Int low (7); AL CE; XP 1,400; MM/349. 

Notes: Any edged weapon can sever a troll's limb on 
a roll of a natural 20. Severed limbs continue to fight. A 
troll regenerates 3 hit points a round, starting the third 
round after damage is inflicted. A troll cannot regener 
ate damage inflicted by fire or acid. 

9a-c. Main Staircase 

This spiral staircase has steps 10 feet long, 4 feet 
wide, and 3 feet high. Huge and gargantuan creatures 
can use it without difficulty. Smaller creatures have dif 
ficulty because the steps are so large. No climbing roll 
is necessary to use the stairs, but movement up or 


down is slow. Characters on the stairs can move only 5 
feet per point of movement. For example, a character 
with a movement rate of 12 could climb or descend 60 
feet of stairs in one round. 

10. Cistern 

This area contains a deep pool of water (about 20 
feet) collected from area 23 and hauled up here in 
buckets. A series of pipes lead to the kitchen (area 17), 
where they provide running water. Other than a pile of 
eight buckets, there is nothing here. 

11. Troll Barracks 

Thirty trolls live here, but only 10 are here at any 
given time; the rest are on duty elsewhere at least 16 
hours a day. The chamber is filthy and the stench is 
overpowering. Piles of straw and twigs gathered from 
area 23 serve as beds, and the trolls here are sleeping 
on them. Only a direct attack or an alarm rouses them. 

Trolls (10): AC 4; MV 12; HD 6+6; hp 36 each; THACO 
13;#AT 3 or 3; Dmg ld4+4/ld4+4/ld8+4 (claw/claw/ 
bite) or ld3+8/ld3+8/ld3+8 (darts + Strength bonus); 





















































































Uninvited Guests 


SD regeneration; SW slashing weapons can sever limbs, 
fire or acid prevents regeneration; SZ L (9' tall); ML elite 
(14); Int low (7); AL CE; XP 1,400 each; MM/349. 

Notes: Any edged weapon can sever a troll's limb on 
a roll of a natural 20. Severed limbs continue to fight. A 
troll regenerates 3 hit points a round, starting the third 
round after damage is inflicted. A troll cannot regener 
ate damage inflicted by fire or acid. 

12. West Guardpost 

A single troll is always on guard here (use the statis 
tics from area 11), watching the ladder that leads up to 
area 2. The troll is lethargic and does not leave its post 
except when the griffon keeper calls. 

If the PCs fight their way into this level, the troll 
hunkers down behind the ladder, ready to hurl its 
darts. It has 25% cover vs. attacks directed at it (see 
DMG, Chapter 9). It is supposed to ring the bell when 
trouble starts, but it spends a round or two fighting 
before it remembers its orders. 

If the PCs enter this chamber unnoticed, this troll is 
busy raiding the huge barrel standing at the chamber's 
western end. The barrel contains horseflesh for the 
griffons, and the party automatically surprises the troll 
as it feasts. 

Alert: The chamber is equipped with an alarm bell 
that is connected to the bells in areas 2 and 15. If the 
bell is rung, the giant in area 2 arrives via the trap door 
in two rounds, after checking on the troll guards up 
there. Also, one of the ogres in area 15 notifies Yurik 
and Nalani, who organize the castle's defense in the 
great hall (see area 16). 

Main Level 

The castle's residents and guests conduct their most 
important daily activities here. The apartments and 
atmosphere are much more comfortable than in the 
upper levels. The whole level is snug and pleasantly 
warm, with none of the drafts that plague the upper 
areas. The staff in the kitchen (area 17) has been work 
ing overtime to keep all the guests fed, and the smell of 
home cooking hangs pleasantly in the air. 

Alert: The moment that the residents of this level 
perceive a threat, the alarm is raised throughout the 
level. Yurik and Nalani lead the castle's defense per 
sonally, organizing their troops from the great hall. See 
area 16 for more details. 


13. Front Gates 

As noted earlier, the cloud bridge stretches about 300 
yards from here to one of the mountain's lower spires. 
(Only the portion of the bridge closest to the castle is 
shown on the map.) Anyone stepping off the bridge 
falls between 200 and 400 feet to the rocks below. Tra 
versing the bridge is fairly safe because it is more than 
40 feet wide. 

The gates themselves are two great valves made of 
wrought iron and hammered bronze. Together, they 
are 15 feet wide and 30 feet high. Unless the giants are 
expecting trouble, one valve is always open during 
daylight. When closed, even a cloud giant has to work 
a bit to get them open. Lesser creatures must attempt a 
bend bars/lift gate roll to open a valve. If the roll is 
successful, it still takes two rounds of effort to push the 
valve open far enough to admit anyone. It takes four 
rounds to push the valves all the way open. If the gates 
are closed and barred (see area 15), no man-sized crea 
ture can open them without magical aid or a siege 
engine. Note that the valves' sheer size (225 square feet 
each) renders most knock spells ineffective. 

Alert: If a battle starts outside, the ogres from area 15 
rush down the stairs to close and bar the gates. It takes 
them three rounds to accomplish this feat. 

14. Main Guardposts 

A cloud giant always stands guard in each of tlie.se 
turrets. The turrets rise 15 feet above the level of the 
cloud, giving the giants ample room to hurl boulders at 
any intruders. Each turret has a supply of 10 boulders. 

The giants are alert and allow no one to pass without 
air invitation. Particularly smooth-talking PCs might 
convince the guards that they have legitimate business 
inside the castle, but the guards do not admit the party. 
Instead, one of the pair runs to area 15 and sends one of 
the ogres to find Yurik or Nalani. The guard then returns 
to his post to await his employers' appearance. See the 
Cast of Characters section for notes on Yurik and Nalani. 

If the PCs have an invitation, or even a crude forgery 
of one, all they have to do is show it to one of the 
guards. Neither guard can read, but both of them rec 
ognize the general form an invitation takes. After a 
cursory glance at the invitation, the guards wave the 
party in. 

The PCs could also try to rush the door. If they do, 
both giants sound their horns and the PCs have a 
major battle on their hands. One guard jumps down 
from his post while the other rushes to area 13. 



Uninvited Guests 



The doors leading to the turrets can be barred from 
the inside, but are simply closed when the front gates 
are open (see area 13). If the gates are closed and 
barred, these doors are barred too. 


falcons to giant eagles, nine small statues, several 
vases, and an assortment of helmets, shields, and odd 
bits of armor. 

lire trophies represent quite a little treasure trove. 
Tire unicorn head is worth 2,000 gp intact (1,500 gp for 
the horn). The vases and statues are worth 5,000 gp in 
total. Most of the armor is junk, but one shield is actu 
ally a shield +3, -1 us. missiles. The weapon rack near 
the head of the stairs contains more trophies in the 
form of man-sized weapons, a collection of giant-sized 
polearms, and several well-polished throwing rocks. 
The rack is mostly for show, but everything in it is 
functional. 

Two ogre footmen are always on guard here, along 
with two hell hounds from Siiri's retinue. The influx of 
guests has caused some disruption in the castle, and 
the resident ogres have moved from their regular quar 
ters in area 19 to here. During the day, the ogres are 
busy with their normal duties, and ten bundles of bed 
ding are piled against the east wall. At night, eight 
ogres are here sleeping while the remaining two 
remain on guard. 

If the PCs talk their way past the guards, the ogres 
stop them again when they get inside. The ogres 
merely want to inventory the party's weapons. They 
are not looking for a fight, but they will defend them 
selves if attacked. 

The entry hall has an alarm bell that is clearly audi 
ble in areas 13,14, and 16. It is connected by ropes to 
bells in areas 2 and 12. If it rings, the ogres alert the 
guards at area 14 and one of them runs to find Yurik or 
Nalani. 


Cloud Giants (2): AC 0; MV 15; HD 16+2-7; hp 81 
each; TI1AC0 5; #AT 1; Dmg 6d4+ll (oversized mom- 
ingstar + Strength bonus), 3d6+ll (oversized pike + 
Strength bonus), or 2dl2 (hurled boulder); SAhurling 
boulders; SD +2 bonus to surprise rolls; SZ 11 (24' tall); 
ML fanatic (17); lnt very (12); AL NE; XP 10,000 each; 
MM/ 132 - . 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and maximum range of.240 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 60% of the time. 

15. Lntry Hall 


The natural staircase leading up into this area is per 
fect for cloud giants, but creatures that are not at least 
size large move at half speed over the huge ledges. 

The giants have decor a ted Thewalls along the stair 
case with trophies and objects of art. There is a unicorn 
head, about a dozen stuffed birds ranging from small 


Alert: The guards at area 14 notice any combat 
unless it is silenced, and both converge on the attack 
ers. If the bell is rung here, the troll in area 12 notifies 
the griffon keeper, who musters the trolls and giants 
from above and descends to investigate. If his force 
can't get down the spiral staircase, they rappel down 
the east side of the peak and enter the lower levels 
through area 20. 

Ogres (2 or 10): A(t 4 (chain mail); MV 6 (moderate 
encumbrance); HD 4+1; hp 22 each; THAC017 (15 
with Strength bonus); #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 2d4+6 (mom- 
ingstar + Strength bonus) or ld8+6/ld8+6 (long bow 
and sheaf arrow + Strength bonus); SZ L (9'+); ML 
Steady (11); lnt Low (7); AL CE; XP 270 each; MM/272. 

Special Equipment: 20 sheaf arrow's each. 

Hell Hounds (2): AC 4; MV 12; HD 7; hp 35 each; 
THAC0 13; #AT 1; Dmg Id 10 (bite); SA-5 to oppo- 







ilillP 


W&if&F*?' 1 . ' rV ¦ 

: • ¦y?^smmis'"i sa"( am9sae^ *(r) ~*^" 

nents' surprise rolls, fietyTO^iSur 
prise rolls, detect invisible creatures 50% of the time, 
immune to fire; SZ M; ML elite (13); Int low (7); AL LE; 

XP 1,400 each; MM/187. 

Notes: Fiery breath affects one creature within 10 
yards and inflicts 7 points of damage (save vs. breath 
weapon for 4 points). If a bite hits with a roll of 20 the 
hound breathes on the opponent as well. 


16. Great Hall 


as the sections of wall they cover. Each weighs one 
pound per square foot and is worth 10 gp per square 
foot. For example, the tapestry on the west wall is 30 
feet high and 60 feet long; it weighs 1,800 pounds and 
is worth 18,000 gp intact. 

The great hall is the scene of many activities. Some 
times nearly empty, it is crowded at other times. 
Exactly what the characters find here depends on 
when they arrive: 


This chamber is spacious by cloud giant standards, 
vast by human standards. It is decorated in high style 
for the wedding. The floor is strewn with fresh, sweet 
smelling rushes gathered from area 23. A pair of ogres 
changes them every day. Flaming oil or a fire-based 
spell can set the rushes alight; hell-hound breath will 
not. Only the rushes in the flame's area of effect bum. 

If set alight, the rushes smolder and flare for 2d4 
rounds, creating clouds of smoke that block infra vision 
and normal vision. Creatures within the smoldering 
area can see a maximum of 15 feet, and they suffer 2d4 
points of fire damage each round. Dousing with water 
puts the fire out immediately. 

The three tables are each about 9 feet high. They are 
draped with fine linen cloths and decorated with bou 
quets of giant-sized flowers freshly cut from area 23. Four 
golden candelabras adorn each table. The long benches 
next to the southern tables are covered with eight hand- 
sewn cushions each, and the seven chairs around the 
northern table each have a cushion for the seat and back. 

The walls are lined with high-quality tapestries, all 
newly cleaned, mended, or woven for this occasion. 
They depict cloud giants hunting or playing in alpine 
scenes or cloudscapes. 

A fire made from apple logs burns merrily in the 
hearth, adding another pleasant scent to the chamber. 
The mantel bears two exquisite harps with gold and 
ivory decorations, a pair of silver cymbals, and three 
flutes (one ebony, one silver, and one brass). 

Most of the items listed above are valuable if 
undamaged, though the PCs might have some trouble 
carrying it all away. The cushions are about 4 feet wide 
and 5 feet long; they are worth 75 gp each. They weigh 
about 15 pounds each, but their encumbrance value is 
three times that because of their bulk. The tablecloths 
are 50 feet long and 15 feet wide. They are worth 400 
gp each, and each weighs about 80 pounds. Each can 
delabra is worth 300 gp and weighs 10 pounds. The 
harps are worth 2,000 gp each, and they each weigh 30 
pounds. The tapestries are 30 feet high and are as long 


Daytime 

During the day, there always two ogres in here 
working, either tidying up or preparing to lay out a 
meal. Two fire giants and their pet hell hounds snooze 
in the straw. The fire giants are guests sleeping off last 
night's duty (or celebrations). They think the place is 
much too cold, and they huddle under several blankets 
and sleep fitfully. 

If the PCs got this far without raising the alarm, the 
crew in here pays them no heed unless they try to steal 
something or attack somebody. In fact, if the PCs are 
feeling brassy, they can demand food and drink. The 
ogres, eager to please the wedding guests, scurry off 
the kitchen and bring a snack in just a few minutes. 

The conversation, however, awakens one of the fire 
giants, who irritably takes a seat at the table. 

The fire giant is surly and not given to conversation. 
If the PCs ask him any questions, he tells them to ask 
the thralls (referring to the ogres). Otherwise he grunts 
noncommittally at pretty much anything the characters 
say. If the characters insult him, he snorts and walks off 
to area 21. 

The ogres are more cooperative. They have the same 
information the trolls in the upper levels have (see 
page 80), but they can get all the giants' names right. 
They gleefully report that the captured dragon is to be 
tortured, slain, and cooked as part of the wedding 
feast. The torture will take place right here in front of 
all the guests. The ogres think the whole gruesome 
procedure will provide delightful entertainment. 

Ogres (2): AC 4 (chain mail); MV 9; HD 4+1; hp 22 
each; THAC0 17 (15 with Strength bonus); #AT 1; Dmg 
ld4+6 (dagger + Strength bonus); SZ L (9'+); ML 
steady (11); Int low (7); AL CE; XP 270 each; MM/272. 

Hell Hounds (2): AC 4; MV 12; HD 7; hp 35 each; 
THAC0 13; #AT 1; Dmg ldlO (bite); SA -5 to oppo 
nents' surprise rolls, fiery breath; SD +1 to own sur 
prise rolls, detect invisible creatures 50% of the time. 



Uninvited Guests 


immune to fire; SZ M; ML elite (13); Int low (7); AL LE; 
XP 1,400 each; MM/187. 

Notes: Fiery breath affects one creature within 10 
yards and inflicts 7 points of damage (save vs. breath 
weapon for 4 points). If a bite hits with a roll of 20 the 
hound breathes on the opponent as well. 

Fire Giants (2): AC -1 (banded mail); MV 12 (moder 
ately encumbered); HD 15+2-5; hp 75 each; THACO 5; 
#AT 1 or 1; Dmg 2dl0+10 (oversized two-handed 
sword + Strength bonus) or 2dl0 (hurled boulder); SA 
hurling boulders; SD fire resistance; SZ H (18' tall); ML 
champion (16); Int average (10); AL LE; XP 8,000 each; 
MM/137. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and maximum range of 200 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 50% of the time. If the boulders 
are heated, they inflict an extra ld6 points of damage. 

Immune to all forms of nonmagical fire, and to fiery 
breath weapons. Magical fire attacks inflict -1 hit point 
per die of damage (no minimum per die; a roll of 1 
inflicts no damage). 

Special Equipment: Shoulder sack with 2 throwing 
boulders, miscellaneous belongings, and 2dl0 gp. 

Mealtimes 

During meals, the two hosts (Yurik and Nalani), all 
the guests, and every cloud giant not assigned to duty 
elsewhere is here. Yurik sits in the center chair at the 
head table with Nalani on his right and Diomed to her 
right. Jytte sits to Yurik's left with Siiri to her left. The 
two end chairs usually are empty. The six off-duty cloud 
giants from area 25, the griffon keeper, and the lion 
keeper all sit at the west table, with the latter two at the 
north end, closest to the head table. Four fire giants and 
the two "stone giants" sit at the east table. Three hell 
hounds sit under the east table, waiting for handouts. 

Five ogres scurry about serving food. One of the cloud 
giants plays an instrument from the collection on the 
mantle; the rest of the giants are eating and conversing. 

If the PCs burst in here, they face 17 giants and three 
hell hounds-not a promising sight. Yurik, however, is 
curious enough about the PCs to give them a chance to 
talk before attacking. He bids them to enter the room 
(where more giants can attack them) and explain them 
selves. 

If a combat ensues, the silver dragons could lend a 
hand and save the party's bacon, or at least make it a 
sporting fight. They're smart enough to know potential 
allies when they meet them. 


Night 

At night, four fire giants and the two "stone giants" 
sleep here, having been given no private quarters. 
There are also two hell hounds. The fire is banked up 
even higher than during the day in an effort to make 
the fire giants comfortable, but they are still wrapped 
in blankets. The giants are sleeping soundly, their 
snores making a frightful racket. 

The hell hounds awaken and bark if the PCs try to 
sneak in here. However, if the characters are mas 
querading as guests, they can move about without call 
ing attention to themselves. 

After an Alarm 

This chamber forms the castle's main point of 
defense if the residents realize they are under attack. 
The fire giants, Nalani, the hell hounds, and three 
cloud giants turn the tables on their sides to form a 
three-sided barrier against the north wall. Jytte has her 
jewelry box, and Siiri has the Rod. In a fight, Siiri uses 
the Rod on as many giants as possible, then hurls boul 
ders or uses her spells to the best of her ability. Her 
favorite spell tactic is to silence opposing spellcasters. 
The giants have plenty of throwing boulders on hand 
from a ready supply they maintain. The castle's ogres 
and spotted lions lurk in the kitchen, prepared to sur 
prise intruders from behind. 

Yurik takes six cloud giants from area 25 and posts 
two near the stairs (area 9b) as sentries. Then he takes 
the "stone giants" and the remaining four cloud giants 
and goes searching for the intruders. The two dragons 
take the first opportunity to assume more unobtrusive 
forms (most likely ogres) and go search the castle for 
their lost offspring. 

17. Kitchen 

Frantic activity is the norm here, especially with 
guests in the castle. A young cloud giantess and a 
staff of ogres are busy from dawn until after dusk 
keeping the guests fed and preparing for the wedding 
feast. 

The chamber has a fireplace with a roaring fire that 
remains lit all day, then burns down to embers at night. 
There is a sturdy table about 12 feet high and a rectan 
gular table about 5 feet high; several tall stools are 
arranged around the low table and a single stool 
stands near the high one. There is a huge wooden tub 
with a spigot connected to area 10, a few cabinets full 





of pots and foodstuffs, and a vast assortment of effi 
cient looking cutlery. 

The pleasant aroma of baking bread wafts from this 
huge chamber to greet you; this must be the kitchen. 
The air is warm here, and occasional voices provide 
counterpoint for the rhythmic chopping and pop 
ping of food preparation. Two ogres wearing 
stained aprons are dicing huge vegetables at a low 
table while another stirs something in a large caul 
dron hanging in the fireplace. A few other ogres 
scurry to and fro carrying immense bags of flour 
and baskets of produce. At a huge table near tire 
center of the room stands a young cloud giantess, 
her hair tied back with a bright green ribbon and 
her face smudged with flour. A scowl mars her 
pretty features as she picks up a round of bread 
dough from a bowl nearby and throws it to the 
tabletop with unnecessary force. 

"Take that, you miserable two-faced rat!" she 
says, giving the dough a vicious thwack. "No more 
midnight snacks and batches of your favorite cook 
ies!" The table buckles under as she slaps the bread 
again. "And that's for that red-haired harlot," she 
cries, her voice rising in pitch as she delivers 
another hard smack to the hapless dough. 

The cook is in a bad mood. She resents the extra 
work she has to do right now 7 and is furious that 
Diomed is marrying a fire giantess. (She once had 
visions of herself and Diomed on a snug little cloud 
with lots of little cloud giants playing about their feet.) 
She assumes the PCs are guests if they make them 
selves known, but she has no patience with them, 
telling them they're underfoot (which is literally true), 
and ordering them out of her kitchen. The cook expects 
them to scram when she orders them out. If they do 
not comply immediately, she tries to pick a character 
up and throw 7 him out. (Treat this as a w'restling 
attack.) If a fight breaks out, the cook drops a pan of 
sticky bread dough over one character's head, then 
flails aw'ay with a rolling pin in one hand and a frying 
pan in the other. The ogres take up knives and cleavers 
and join the fray. 

If the characters tell the cook they are exterminators, 
she grudgingly allows them to search the kitchen for 
vermin. If they magically charm her or compliment her 
beaut)', they can get her to sit dowm and tell the w'hole 
story of the wedding and just about anything else they 
want to know, provided they ask the right questions: 


• "Siiri is an odd one, even for a fire giant. She's neat 
and clean where others of her kind are filthy. She 
makes an effort to get her daughter and her servants to 
smarten up, but they're still vile. Siiri is really fussy 
about her hair, but she w'on't let anyone in the castle 
cut it. She just keeps fiddling with her hairpins and 
arranging it all the time. With that hair color of hers- 
flame orange-she should just give up." 

• "I'll say one thing, though, she sure did get every 
thing unpacked and rearranged quickly once she got 
here. I never saw' anyone settle in so fast. I never knew 
fire giants could move wdth such haste. I guess she just 
couldn't wait to move into my room with that daugh 
ter of hers." (Siiri used haste on her escorts to get 
unpacked and moved in quickly.) 

• "Fire giants are just aw'ful. They're sw'eaty arid 
smelly and the way they eat! Nothing but charred 
meat and brick-hard biscuits." 

• "The silver dragon? Hey, that's supposed to be a sur 
prise! It's down in the oubliette, on the lower level. 1 
plan to cook it with leeks and garlic. I've got to do 
something to cover the metallic flavor." 

• "Diomed can't possibly care for that pudgy little 
hussy. He just wants to make his father happy; he can't 
like that grotesque hair of hers. Could he? Do you 
think I'd look good w r ith red hair?" 

If there has been an alarm or a fight in area 16, the cook 
and her staff attack the PCs when they enter. If Yurik has 
had time to organize a defense, the spotted lions from 
dowmstairs (area 28) will be lurking here as w'ell. 

Cook (Cloud Giant): AC 0; MV 15; HD 16+2-7; hp 
68; THACO 5; #AT 2 or 1; Dmg 3d6+ll/3d4+14 (over 
sized rolling pin + Strength bonus/giant frying pan + 
Strength bonus) or 2d 12 (hurled pot); SA hurling pots; 
SD +2 bonus to surprise rolls; SW attacks with frying 
pan suffer a -2 penalty for attacking with a second 
w'eapon; SZ H (24' tall); ML fanatic (17); Int very (12); 
AL NE; XP 10,000; MM/132. 

Notes: Hurled pots have a minimum range of 3 
yards and a maximum range of 240 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 60% of the time. 

A hit with a pan of dough inflicts 2d8 pints of dam 
age and the victim is blinded, smothered, and unable 
to act until he can make a successful open doors roll to 
remove the pan and dough. 





Ogres (6): AC 5; MV 9; HD 4+1; hp 22 each; THACO 
17 (15 with Strength bonus); #AT 1; Dmg ld8+6 
(kitchen cleavers + Strength bonus); SZ L (9'+); ML 
steady (11); Int low (7); AL CE; XP 270 each; MM/272. 

18. Storeroom 

The giants have stuffed this chamber with food and 
beverages of all kinds. Dressed carcasses of livestock 
and game (some normal, some giant-sized) hang in 
profusion from the ceiling. Barrels of ale, wine, and 
beer stand in every niche, along with casks of brandy 
and stronger spirits. Sacks of flour, beans, and sugar lie 
in scattered heaps. Baskets of fresh fruits, jugs of honey, 
and lumps of butter fill every flat space that remains. 

The party could search for hours and find nothing of 
any particular value in here. A character skilled at 
cooking can locate about 20 pounds of rare delicacies 
and spices (caviar, saffron, pepper, etc.) worth 500 gp. 

19. Servants' Quarters 

The castle's ogres live here permanently, but the 
cook has moved in for the time being, having given up 
her own quarters to Siiri and Jytte. The ogres' effects 
have been stored in area 28 and the giants have set up 
a cot, a stool, and a table for the cook. A chest under 
the cot holds some of the cook's belongings, which 
include a silver bracelet worth 100 gp and a jasper 
brooch worth 120 gp. 

The cook sleeps in here every night, but it is empty 
otherwise. 

20. Postern 

The natural staircase leading down to the back door 
forces creatures that are not at least size large to move 
at half speed. A cloud giant and a spotted lion are 
always on guard at the top of the stairs. 

During daylight, the door is always closed but not 
barred. The guard lets no one pass without direct per 
mission from Yurik or Nalani. If the PCs attack, the giant 
blows a tin whistle that alerts everyone on the level. 

Alert: The guard at area 22 is sure to hear any distur 
bance and comes to investigate immediately. A battle 
in this area has a 30% chance each round (noncumula- 
tive) to be noticed in the great hall (area 16), unless it is 
silenced. 

Cloud Giant: AC 0; MV 15; HD 16+2-7; hp 81; 
THACO 5; #AT 1; Dmg 6d4+ll (oversized morningstar 







































Uninvited Guests 


+ Strength bonus), 3d6+ll (oversized pike + Strength 
bonus), or 2dl2 (hurled boulder); SA hurling boulders; 
SD +2 bonus to surprise rolls; SZ H (24' tall); ML 
fanatic (17); Int very (12); AL NE; XP 10,000; MM/132. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and maximum range of 240 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 60% of the time. 

Special Equipment: Shoulder sack with 4 throwing 
boulders, assorted belongs, and 37 gp. Tm whistle 
worn on a thong around the neck. 

Spotted Lion (Cat, Great): AC 6; MV 12; HD 6+2; hp 
32; THAC0 15; #AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ldl2 (claw/ 
claw/bite); SA rake; SD +2 to surprise rolls; SZ L 
(about 6' long); ML average (9); Int semi (4); AL N; XP 
975; MM/36. 

Notes: If the lion hits with both forepaws it can rake 
with its rear claws (Dmg 2d4/2d4). 

21. Privy 

This chamber contains a 20-foot bench about 8 feet 
high. Two holes atop the bench lead down 40 feet to a 
cesspit. A covered chute in area 23 allows access to the 
cesspit for cleaning. Characters with tough noses and 
strong stomachs could enter the castle through this 
area via the chute. 

22. Postern Turret 

This area is similar area 14, except that there is only 
one turret. A cloud giant always stands guard here. He 
is accustomed to seeing guests come and go from area 
23 all day. He doesn't give the PCs a second glance 
unless they arrive at night (when all the guests are 
inside) or unless they have weapons showing. He has a 
supply of eight throwing boulders on hand. 

The door leading to the turrets can be barred from the 
inside, but this occurs only if an alarm has been raised. 

Alert: If the guard in area 20 hears fighting here, he 
blows his whistle and charges to the melee. 

Cloud Giant: AC 0; MV 15; HD 16+2-7; hp 81 each; 
THAC0 5; #AT 1; Dmg 6d4+ll (oversized morningstar 
+ Strength bonus), 3d6+ll (oversized pike + Strength 
bonus), or 2dl2 (hurled boulder); SA hurling boulders; 
SD +2 bonus to surprise rolls; SZ H (24' tall); ML 
fanatic (17); Int very (12); AL NE; XP 10,000; MM/132. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and a maximum range of 240 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 60% of the time. 


23. Cloud Meadow 

The giants use this enormous area to grow food and 
to relax. There are vegetable and flower gardens, fruit 
trees, and grassy paddocks. Despite the altitude, the 
temperature is warm and pleasant, like a spring day. 

At the far end of the area, almost a quarter mile from 
the castle, the giants mine silver by digging away at 
the cloudstuff and straining out the nuggets of metal. 
The silver is a by-product of the enchantment that 
maintains the cloud. Lately, two immature silver drag 
ons have been raiding the silver, much to the giants' 
consternation. A few days ago, the giants caught one of 
the dragons and imprisoned her in area 30. The giants 
plan to slay and eat the creature. 

During the day, the wedding party and guests spend 
much of their time out here (see the Cast of Characters 
section for details). The cloud giants entertain their 
guests with music and boulder-tossing games. The latter 
poses a problem for the silver dragons; they look just like 
stone giants, but they lack a true giant's ability to hurl 
boulders. Thus far they have been able to avoid boulder 
tossing by pretending to be distrustful of the cloud. They 
make a show of walking carefully lest they break 
through it, and they never make sudden movements. 

Diomed, the groom, spends most of his days here, 
except for mealtimes (when he is in the great hall). At 
night, he sleeps in his room (area 26). Two fire giants, 
new pals, always accompany him. If an alarm founds, 
Diomed and his pals are eager to get into the fight and 
rush directly to the scene of the trouble. Diomed and 
his friends are with Yurik and Nalani if they are here; 
otherwise, they're killing time on their own. 

Diomed is ambivalent about his upcoming marriage. 
He fully intends to ignore his bride and go right on 
chasing cloud giant wenches, as he has been doing until 
now. He suspects that the castle cook has eyes for him. 

Three of the giants from area 25 are here 50% of the 
time. If Yurik and Nalani are entertaining, they are 
with the group. Otherwise, they are just relaxing on 
their own and trying to stay out of Diomed's sight. 
They resent Diomed's new friends. If Diomed is 
attacked, however, they rush to his aid, and vice versa. 

Diomed (Cloud Giant): AC 0; MV 15; HD 16+2-7; 
hp 81; THAC0 5; #AT 1 or 1; Dmg 6d4+ll (oversized 
morningstar + Strength bonus) or 2dl2 (hurled boul 
der); SA hurling boulders; SD-+2 bonus to surprise 
rolls; SZ H (24' tall); ML fanatic (17); Int very (12); AL 
NE; XP 10,000; MM/132. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a range of 3 




Uninvited Guests 


yards and a maximum range of 240 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 60% of the time. 

Special Equipment: Shoulder sack containing 3 throw 
ing boulders, a bone flute, 49 pp, a 100 gp gem, and a 
half-full cask of rum. Diomed wears a silver and ivory 
armband worth 500 gp, a gold ring set with an emerald 
worth 1,600 gp, and a gold brooch set with bloodstones 
worth 750 gp. 

Fire Giants (2): AC -1 (banded mail); MV 12 (moder 
ately encumbered); HD 15+2-5; hp 75 each; THAC0 5; 
#AT 1 or 1; Dmg 2dl0+10 (oversized two-handed 
sword + Strength bonus) or 2dl0 (hurled boulder); SA 
hurling boulders; SD fire resistance; SZ H (18' tall); ML 
champion (16); Int average (10); AL LE; XP 8,000 each; 
MM/137. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and a maximum range of 200 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 50% of the time. If the boulders 
are heated, they inflict an extra ld6 points of damage. 

Immune to all forms of nonmagical fire and to fiery 
breath weapons. Magical fire attacks inflict -1 hit point 
per die of damage (no minimum per die; a roll of 1 
inflicts no damage). 

Special Equipment: Shoulder sacks each containing 2 
throwing boulders, two pewter cups worth 20 gp each 
(gifts from Diomed), and 2dl2 gp each. 

23a. Tool Shed 

The giants store all their gardening and mining 
equipment in here. The one-room building is 30 feet 
square and about 25 feet tall. It has one door (shown 
on the map) and no chimney or windows. The door 
is locked with a giant-sized padlock. (Nalani has the 
key.) The shed is filled with hoes, rakes, shovels, 
shears, saws, and similar tools. There is an open- 
topped wooden box with a few nuggets of silver rat 
tling around in the bottom; these are worth 2 sp 
total. 

Lower Levels 

These levels are darker than the upper levels 
because there are fewer continual light batons. Areas 
that don't have fires burning in them feel somewhat 
damp and chilly. Unless noted otherwise, the air is 
stagnant and unpleasantly pungent. 

Alert: As there are no doors separating the cham 
bers of these levels, sound travels freely. The din of 
combat or screams of alarm are sure to bring the 


attention of all of the level's denizens and shortly the 
interest of those upstairs. 

24. Guest Room 

The castle's cook lives here permanently, but Siiri 
and Jytte are using the chamber now. Tactical Map F2 
shows the chamber and part of the hallway outside. 

Two fire giants and a hell hound stand guard out 
side the doorway. The giants are grumpy (complaining 
of cold), but they allow the PCs to enter if no alarm has 
been raised. Inside, a brazier full of glowing coals dri 
ves away the level's chill. 

The floor is covered with a reed mat, and the room 
boasts two wardrobes and a bureau with a silver mir 
ror. Two stools stand in front of the bureau. There is 
one large bed with huge goosefeather pillows and fine 
woolen blankets. Two chests under the bed hold the 
giantesses' personal belongings. 

The silver mirror is 15 feet long and 8 feet high. It 
weighs about 100 pounds, but most of that is a backing 
made from hardwood planks. Intact, the mirror is 
worth 125 gp. A large collection of combs, scissors, and 
brushes is scattered atop the bureau. Some of these 
items are gold and silver, and a character who spends 
at least a turn searching can pick out eight items worth 
a total of 570 gp. There are also two giant-sized bottles 
of expensive perfume (worth 200 gp each). The chest 
holds assorted equipment and clothing, including two 
suits of fire-giant sized banded mail, both polished to a 
brilliant shine. One chest holds another bottle of per 
fume (worth 300 gp because it is full). The other holds a 
locked jewelry box; this and the jewelry inside it were 
gifts from Diomed to Jytte, and she has the key. The box 
contains four pairs of golden earrings worth 200 gp a 
pair, a giant-sized diamond ring worth 2,500 gp if 
intact, and a silver chain worth 520 gp. The lock has a 
poison needle trap. Anyone picking the lock must roll a 
successful saving throw vs. poison or die immediately. 
Even if the saving throw succeeds, the character still 
suffers 45 points of damage. (Though death is immedi 
ate, the damage has an onset time of ld4 rounds; the 
victim feels ill during that time, but suffers no damage 
if the poison is treated before the time expires.) 

The bureau has three drawers full of neatly folded 
clothing, all giant sized. Tine wardrobes contain formal 
dresses and heavy outdoor cloaks. All told, there are nine 
dresses and three cloaks; each dress is worth 3d4xl0 gp, 
and each cloak is worth 3d8xl0 gp. The giantesses also 
keep their two-handed swords in the wardrobes. 

If Siiri is here and there has been no alarm raised. 





Uni nvited G uests 


she is seated at the bureau, unarmored, fussing with 
her hair and muttering about how utterly unruly and 
impossible it is. Jytte sits on the other stool, trying to 
brush her mother's hair. The Rod segment lies on the 
bureau with the rest of Siiri's hairpins. 

An anguished shriek sets your teeth on edge as you 
peer into this comfortable, well-appointed chamber. 
At a vanity table against the far wall sit two red- 
haired giantesses, both looking into a large mirror 
with their backs toward you. The older of the two 
grabs her hair with both hands and yanks it 
viciously. "Augh! I can't stand this hair another 
minute! I can't do anything with it when it's like 
this! You'd think they'd have a decent hairdresser in 
this place! No wonder Nalani's hair is such a 
fright." The younger giantess reaches toward the 
abused locks with a jeweled hairbrush, but her furi 
ous companion knocks her hand aside impatiently. 

"It won't help," she moans, propping her chin in 
her hand and gazing into the mirror despondently. 
"Without a proper trim, it's just going to frizz. What 
am I going to do? 1 can't go to the wedding looking 
like this!" She buries her face in her hands as the 
younger one sighs in exasperation and tries to com 
fort her. "You look fine. Mother! Really you do!" 

If the PCs make any quick moves, Siiri and jytte will 
see them in the mirror and try for their weapons, call 
ing for help as they do so. The guards will respond 
immediately, as will the rest of the castle in short order. 

Quick-thinking PCs can use this as an opportunity to 
get some hair, however, as w r eii as gaining an opportu 
nity to snatch the Rod. (T fair from a powerful lawful 
evil creature, freely given, is required to assemble the 
Rod; see Book III.) Any PC can convince Siiri to let him 
cut her hair with a successful Charisma check. The 
character can add +2 to his score if the player role- 
plays the offer well. If the player does not role-play at 
all, the check is made at half the character's Charisma 
score. If the check succeeds, the character is allowed to 
approach the bureau and start cutting. This constitutes 
a perfect opportunity to grab the Rod segment; it is 
fairly easy to recognize because it is the only hairpin in 
the pile that has faceted ends. Rogues can pocket the 
Rod with a successful pick pockets roll. Siiri notices any 
other attempt to get the segment unless the PCs stage 
some kind of distraction. 

If the character has no special skill at hairstyling, he 
must succeed with a check vs. half his Intelligence 


score to do a job Siiri will accept. If the character fails, 
she flies into a rage and attacks. Her shouts bring the 
guards into the room, and eventually the rest of the 
castle as well. 

If Siiri is not here, Jytte is laying on the bed, staring 
at the ceiling. She is happy to speak to the PCs if they 
bring her some kind of gift; otherwise, she dismisses 
them. Jytte does not know about the silver dragon, but 
she does know about her mother's magical hairpin. If 
the PCs ask about it, Jytte laughs and says that every 
body notices how fast her mother's servants are, and 
the hairpin is the secret. 

Fire Giants (3): AC -1 (banded mail) or 5 (no armor); 
MV 12 (moderately encumbered); HD 15+2-5; hp 75,75 
(guards), 71 (Jytte); THACO 5; #AT 1 or 1; Dmg 
2dl0+10 (oversized two-handed sword + Strength 
bonus) or 2dl0 (hurled boulder); SA hurling boulders; 
SD fire resistance; SZ H (18' tall); ML champion (16); 
hit average (10); AL LE; XP 8,000 each; MM/137. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and a maximum range of 200 yards, Can catch 
similar large missiles 50% of the time. If the boulders 
are heated, they inflict an extra Jd6 points of damage. 

Immune to all forms of nonmagicai fire and to fiery 
breath weapons. Magical fire attacks inflict -1 hit point 
per die of damage (no minimum per die; a roll of 1 
inflicts no damage). 

Hell Hound: AC 4; MV 12; HD 7; hp 35; THACO 13; 
#AT 1; Dmg IdlO (bite); SA -5 to opponents' surprise 
rolls, fiery- breath; SD +1 to own surprise rolls, detect 
invisible creatures 50% of the time, immune to fire; SZ 
M; ML elite (13); Int low (7); AL LE; XP 1,400; MM/187. 

Notes: Fiery breath affects one creature within 10 
yards and inflicts 7 points of damage (save vs. breath 
weapon for 4 points). If a bite hits with a roll of 20, the 
hound breathes on the opponent as well. 

25. Cloud Giant Barracks 

Twelve cloud giants live here. The chamber has 12 
giant-sized bunk beds arranged in two tiers, 12 trunks 
(2 under each lower bunk), a battered table, a pail of 15 
throwing boulders, and an odd assortment of stools 
and chairs. The floor is covered with rushes that are 
not quite as fresh and sweet as the ones in the great 
hall (area 16). There are at most only six giants here at 
any given time; the remaining six are on duty else 
where. Of the six giants that are not working, there is a 
50% chance that three of them are enjoying themselves 















Uni nvi ted G nests 


in area 23. At mealtimes, there are no giants here at all. 

If there are only three giants here, they are asleep. 
They keep their momingstars close at hand, however, 
and are ready to fight just as soon as they awaken. If 
there are six giants here, they are passing around a 
cask of beer and playing knucklebones at the table. 

Cloud Giants (3 or 6): AC 0; MV 15; HD 16+2-7; hp 
81 each; THACO 5; #AT 1 or 1; Dmg 6d4+ll (oversized 
momingstar + Strength bonus) or 2dl2 (hurled boul 
der); SA hurling boulders; SD +2 bonus to surprise 
rolls; SZ H (24' tall); ML fanatic (17); Int very (12); AL 
NE; XP 10,000 each; MM/132. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and a maximum range of 240 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 60% of the time. 

26. Diomed's Chamber 

Diomed, the groom, lives here. Siiri and Nalani have 
been busying themselves turning the place into a nup 
tial suite. The chamber's walls have been freshly 
whitewashed. The bed is heaped with luxurious furs 
and two silk pillows stuffed with goosedown. 

A displacer beast skin, complete with head, tail, and 
tentacles, lies in front of the bed, and a small cave bear 
skin covers the rest of the floor. There is a bronze bra 
zier for extra heat, a bureau, and a wardrobe. The 
bureau and wardrobe contain normal clothing. Two 
chests under the bed hold sheets, clothing, and a few of 
Diomed's personal belongings. There are 13 bars of 
gold (worth 400 gp each), a sack containing 1,345 gp, 
and a an emerald-tipped scepter worth 2,500 gp. The 
displacer beast skin is worth 300 gp (it has no magical 
or alchemical properties) and the bear skin is worth 
400 gp. The furs on the bed are worth a total of 1,700 
gp; the pillows are worth 25 gp each. 

Nalani has finished with this room, but Siiri still put 
ters around in here (see the Cast of Characters section). 
If Siiri is here, she is fully armed and armored and has 
the brazier stoked up to a red-hot glow. Siiri investi 
gates any disturbance on this level. 

27. Master Suite 

Yurik and Nalani normally spend most of their time 
here. Nalani wove most of the castle's tapestries on the 
loom, and both giants enjoy sitting in the two armchairs 
and enjoying the view of the valley below. These days, 
they are frequently away entertaining their guests. 

This chamber probably is the most pleasant room in 


the castle. It is bright and sunny during the day, and 
the walls are hung with beautiful tapestries similar to 
the ones in the great hall (area 16). In cold weather, a 
fire in the hearth drives away the dampness and chill. 
The weather is fine when the PCs arrive, however, and 
the fireplace is cold. 

Other than the tapestries, there is very little of value 
here because Yurik and Nalani wear most of their jewelry. 
A chest under the bed contains a sack filed with 2,400 gp 
and 245 pp. A locked box similar to the one in area 24 
contains 4 base 500 gp gems and 3 pairs of giant-sized 
earrings that are worth 250 gp a pair. The box has a poi 
son needle trap identical to the one on the box in area 24. 

If Yurik and Nalani are here, Yurik is sitting on one 
of the chairs, looking out the windows, and Nalani is 
busy at the loom. The giants investigate any distur 
bance on this level. 

If Yurik and Nalani are not here, two spotted lions 
from area 28 guard the room. 

Spotted Lions (Cat, Great) (2): AC 6; MV 12; HD 

6+2; hp 32 each; THACO 15; #AT 3; Dmg 
Id4/ld4/ldl2 (claw/claw/bite); SA rake; SD +2 to 
surprise rolls; SZ L (about 6' long); ML average (9); Int 
semi (4); AL N; XP 975 each; MM/36. 

Notes: If a lion hits with both forepaws it can rake 
with its rear claws (Dmg 2d4/2d4). 

28. Lion Dens 

These chambers house the castle's pride of eight 
spotted lions. There are never more than seven lions 
here because one always is with the guard in area 20. If 
there are lions in area 27, there are only five lions here. 

Each chamber contains a pile of fairly clean straw 
and a scattering of dry bones (from the lions' past 
meals). The chamber farthest to the east has been 
cleaned out and stuffed with odds and ends, including 
assorted pieces of furniture, dented pots and pans, 
empty barrels, and the like. To prepare for their guests, 
the giants cleaned out every room in the castle and 
piled the things they didn't want to use in here. There 
is nothing valuable in the pile, though a thorough 
search would take at least an hour. 

The portcullises in this area are similar to the ones in 
areas 6 and 7. All of them are up except for the one at 
the base of the stairs and the one leading to area 29. 

Spotted Lions (Cat, Great) (7 or 5): AC 5/6 

(front/rear) or 6; MV 12; HD 6+2; hp 32 each; THACO 
15; #AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ldl2 (claw/claw/bite); SA 



Uninvited Guests 


rake; SD +2 to surprise rolls; SZ L (about 6' long); ML 
average (9); Intsemi (4); AL N; XP 975 each; MM/36. 

Notes: Male lions are AC 5 if attacked from the front, 
AC 6 if attacked from the flank or rear. Females are AC 
6 all over. If a lion hits with both forepaws it can rake 
with its rear claws (Dmg 2d4/2d4). There are seven 
females and one male in the pride. 

29. Lion Keeper's Quarters 

& 

The giant charged with the care, training, and feed 
ing of the castle's lions lives here, where she can be 
near the pride. The chamber contains a bed, two dire 
wolf pelts on the floor, and several hooks, where 
whips, prods, chains, and muzzles hang. The giantess 
uses these to control the lions. A sack containing three 
throwing boulders also hangs from a hook. 

The equipment and the wolf pelts are not particu 
larly valuable. A locked chest (the lion keeper has the 
key) contains 456 gp, one gold bar (worth 400 gp), and 
a pendant made from a sapphire on a silver chain 
(worth 1,000 gp intact). 

The giantess spends almost all her time here. She 
joins the other giants in the great hall at mealtimes, but 
otherwise is here keeping an eye on areas 28 and 30. 
She investigates any disturbance. 

Clowd Giant: AC 0; MV 15; HD 16+2-7; hp 81 each; 

IIIACO 5; #AT 1 or 1; Dmg 6d4+ll (oversized morning- 
star + Strength bonus) or 2dl2 (hurled boulder); SA 
hurling boulders; SD +2 bonus to surprise rolls; SZ H 
(24' tall); ML fanatic (17); Int very (12); AL NE; 

XP 10,000; MM/132. 

Notes: Hurled boulders have a minimum range of 3 
yards and a maximum range of 240 yards. Can catch 
similar large missiles 60% of the time. 

30. Oubliette 

This chamber's only furnishing is a round slab of 
stone covering a circular pit in the floor. The cover 
weighs more than a ton and it takes two cloud giants 
to move it. If the party can apply at least 46 points of 
Strength to it, they can push it open in ld4+l rounds. 

The giants use the pit to hold prisoners they never 
want to see again. It is 10 feet wide and 90 feet deep, 
and the walls are smooth as glass. The bottom is lit 
tered with the bones of creatures that have perished in 
the pit's lightless depths. 

Currently, Ariele, a hatchling silver dragon the giants 
caught, is imprisoned here. The giants plan to order her 


to assume human form so they can pull her out with a 
rope when it's time for her execution. Currently, she has 
assumed the form of a spotted lion. The giants have 
ordered her to remain in that lion form until they com 
mand her to assume a new one. Being an obedient little 
dragon, Ariele is doing what she has been told. If the 
PCs open up the pit and shine a light inside, they see a 
lonely looking lion staring up at them with wide eyes. 

It meows like an unhappy housecat and claws at the 
walls as if trying to climb out of the pit. Ariele cannot 
talk in cat form, but a s peak with monsters or speak with 
animals spell will enable conversation if the party can 
get within range. Ariele can understand the PCs per 
fectly well, and can answer yes or no questions with 
nods and shakes of her head. She desperately wants to 
go home, and will polymorph into a bird and fly out of 
the pit at the least encouragement from the PCs. 

Ariele (Dragon, Metallic, Silver): AC 0 (6 in lion 
form); MV 9, FI 30 (C), Jp 3 (12 in lion form); HD 9; hp 36; 
THAC0 11; #AT 3 (3 in lion form); Dmg Id8+l/ld8+l/ 
5d6+l (claw/claw/bite) or Id4/ld4/ldl2 (claw/claw/ 
bite) in lion form; SA breath weapon; SD detect invisible 
objects and creatures within 10 feet, immune to cold; SZ 
L (10' body) (size L in lion form); ML fanatic (17); Int 
exceptional (15); AL LG; XP Nil; MM/79. 

Notes: Can polymorph self with an unlimited duration 
(maximum of three changes in form each day), and 
walk on clouds or fog as if they were solid ground (can 
be activated of negated at will). Breath weapon once 
every three rounds-cone of cold 5' wide at the 
dragon's mouth, 80' long, and 30' wide at the far end 
(creatures within the cone suffer 2d 10+1 points of dam 
age, save vs. breath weapon for half); or cloud of para- 
lyzation gas (50' long, 40' wide, and 20' high, creatures 
within the cloud must save vs. breath weapon of 
become paralyzed ld8+l rounds). 

Troubleshooting 

If the party is reluctant to enter the castle and decides 
to wait a few days before doing anything, the dragons 
conduct their rescue mission and depart, leaving the 
giants in an uproar. Yurik dispatches an ogre mounted 
on a griffon to carry a message to the fire giants, and 
four more of them arrive in about a week. Meanwhile, 
groups of spyder-fiends begin harrying both the giants 
and the party (see the Chaos Gates adventure in Book 
III). If the PCs delay more than an additional week, the 
spyder-fiends successfully wrest the segment from Siiri. 






1145xxxl90t 







































































^ Dun 



TOMES ' 



v"f5EVEN| 

JPAR^J 










































































I able of Contents 


Hospitality...3 

At the Caravanserai.5 

The House.12 

Events.15 

The Forgotten Temple...20 

Through the Portal.22 

On the Grounds.22 

First Floor.24 

Upper Floor.33 

Lower Level.34 


The Citadel of Chaos ... 
About Pandemonium . 

Friendly Advice. 

Arrival. 

Outer Works. 

The Keep. 

Miska's Apartments... 
Additional Encounters 
Afterward. 





40 

40 

42 

46 

47 
49 
51 
57 
61 


Credits 

Design: Skip Williams 
Editing: David Eckelberry 

Cover Design: Stephen A. Daniele and Greg Kerkman 
Cover Illustration: R. K. Post 

Interior Illustrations: Glen Michael Angus, Arnie Swekel, Phillip Robb, Jim Roslof, and Erol Otus 

Graphic Design: Greg Kerkman 
Cartography: Diesel, David Martin, and Arnie Swekel 
Typesetting: Tracey L. Isler 
Art Director: Stephen A. Daniele 


Playtesters: Phil Anderson, Dave Conant, Shawn Costa, Scott Douglas, and Jon Pickens 


AD&D, ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AL-QADIM, DARK SUN. and the TSR logo are registered 
trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. MONSTROUS MANUAL amlJPtANESCAPE are trade 
marks qwfjed by TSR, Inc. All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are 
trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 

tSR; Inc All rights reserved. This pixxiuct is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of 
America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized useqf the material nr artwork con 
tained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSRJnc. -L ¦ = ¦. 

Random House and its affilate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc. Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United King 
dom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby market by regional distributors. 


TSR, Inc 

201 Sheridan Springs Road 
Lake Geneva 
wr 53147 
U.S.A. 



TSR Ltd. 
120 Church End 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge, CR1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


1145XXX1502 






































M 2JPITALITY 


The Rod's fourth and fifth segments have been joined. 
The jackalwere Asaph abdul Anat, the current owner 
of the segments, never had the opportunity to learn 
anything about the Rod before becoming petrified by 
a medusa. Asaph makes a good statue, and he now 
graces a room in the abandoned caravanserai that is 
home to a band of evil jann and medusae led by a 
pair of efreet. 

The two efreet, Ibbitsaad al Puhr and Naala bint 
Tekkne, have come to the Prime Material Plane to 
gather slaves for sale in the City of Brass. They have 
assembled an impressive array of servants, including 
the medusae and jann, plus an imp and several 
mephits. The efreet live in reasonable comfort while 
the jann fan out over the countryside scouting for vic 
tims. When the jann find a target, the efreet join them 
in an attack, using their powers to create a diversion 
ary illusion. 

The band's base is a caravanserai they seized early in 
their career. The occasional unlucky traveler who stum 
bles upon the place finds himself under assault by 
medusae, mephits, and genies. So far, no one has seen 
their lair and escaped. The occasional survivor of one of 
their raids reports seeing a band of howling spirits. The 
tales are so fanciful that few would give them credit if 
whole caravans did not occasionally disappear. 

If the PCs have the third segment of the Rod, it 
guides them into the caravanserai adventure. If they 
do not have the third segment, there is no simple way 
to get them involved in this adventure (no one is 
using the Rod). Arquestan has no clues about where it 
might be. A legend lore spell and consultation with a 
sage will eventually put the PCs on the right track; see 
the next section for details. 

Searching for the Caravanserai 

The caravanserai is located in a rocky valley about 
900 miles from the cloud giants' castle; there is no 
map of the surrounding desert. No matter where the 
PCs are when they start the trip to find the next seg 
ment, at least one third of their route passes through 
sand. The valley lies along one of several trade routes 
that cross the desert. The nearest city is about 180 
miles away. 

For part of the year, the valley is lush and green, 
making it a prime choice for travelers seeking good 
grazing for their mounts. The rest of the year, it is so 
hot and dry that caravans usually bypass it. The DM 
can decide whether the party arrives during the brief 
wet season or the dry season, or he can roll randomly. 


If a random determination is necessary, there is a 75% 
chance the party arrives in the dry season. 

A legend lore spell gives the following clue to the 
next segment's whereabouts: 

What you seek is not alone, 

Two companions sheathed in stone. 

To a vale of fear and delusion you must ride 
where spirits not of the dead abide. 

If the party visits a sage or other knowledgeable NPC 
from your campaign and asks about the clue, the sage 
can direct the characters to the Vale of Spirits as the 
probable locale described in the rhyme. Unless the 
NPC is well versed in the folklore of the region sur 
rounding the caravanserai, he can tell the party noth 
ing else. A sage who knows the local folklore can 
essentially tell the party the same tale the goatherds 
do (see below). 

Travel in the desert requires some special prepara 
tions to which most parties are not accustomed. First, 
each PC must consume at least a gallon of water a day; 
mounts must consume four gallons a day. Creatures 
that are encumbered or that perform a forced march 
must consume double the normal requirement. Char 
acters who don't get enough water lose ld4 points of 
Constitution each day until they die of dehydration or 
get enough water. Lost Constitution returns at the rate 
of one point for each day of rest (and proper water 
intake). Mounts are assumed to have a Constitution 
score of 18 for purposes of dehydration. During the 
wet season, the party can find plenty of water to drink 
in temporary pools, rivers, and the like. Water is 
almost impossible to find during the dry season. 

Second, armor is very uncomfortable in the desert 
heat. During the day, heavy armor causes a character 
to suffer a penalty to his attack rolls, proficiency 
checks, and ability checks. Subtract the character's 
basic armor class from 7; the result is the penalty. Basic 
armor class is defined as armor class before adjust 
ments for a shield, magic, or Dexterity. For example, a 
character with chain mail +2, a shield +1, and a Dexter 
ity score of 16 has an armor class of-1. The character's 
basic armor class, however, is only 5, and the armor 
penalty is -2. If the character's base armor class is 7 or 
higher, there is no adjustment; a character wearing no 
armor does not get a +3 bonus. 

DM Note: If you have access to the more detailed 
rules for dehydration and armor from the Al-Qadim(r) 
or Dark Sun(r) settings, feel free to use them instead. 






Hospitality 


Tracking the Rod 

The third segment of the Rod points steadily toward 
the caravanserai while the PCs are moving cross 
country. 

Map Cl shows the caravanserai. Because the com 
pound is so large, the third segment continues to indi 
cate northwest (toward area 20, on the upper floor of 
the house above area 17) as long as they remain south 
of area 3. Once the characters move north of area 3, 
they get no indication because they are too close. 

The Goatherds 

Sometime after the PCs enter the valley, they 
encounter some locals tending their goats: 

The canyon you have entered is rugged going, but 
certainly no worse than the sea of sand you have 
left behind. Wild as the area might be, it is not 
deserted. Ahead, a lone sentry looks down on you 
from his perch atop a bluff. The figure seems to be a 
human dressed in a turban and a flowing robe. He 
carries a bow, but does not seem hostile. He regards 
you calmly, then gives a friendly wave, though you 
note that he maintains a firm grip on his weapon. 

From somewhere in the rocks below, you can 
hear another man's voice asking the sentry what 
he sees. The shout brings forth a chorus of bleating 
from an unseen herd of goats. 

The sentry is one of several goat herders who have 
brought their flocks to one of the valley's few springs. 
The man is on the lookout for predators and is not too 
worried about the party. If the PCs are invisible, they 
see the sentry before he sees them, and the party can 
bypass this encounter. Flying characters see the goats 
at the waterhole and the other goat herders when 
they see the sentry. 

If the PCs attack, the sentry scrambles out of sight 
(assuming he survives). On the following round, the 
goats stampede away from the spring and toward the 
party. The PCs have one round to stop the goats. A 
display of flashy magic turns them back; otherwise, 
the characters must successfully save vs. breath 
weapon or be knocked off their feet and trampled for 
2d4 points of damage. Mounted characters who are 
not proficient riders automatically fall off their 
mounts and are trampled; if they are proficient, a suc 
cessful riding check allows them to keep their seats 


and avoid damage. The goat herders use the distrac 
tion to escape. They have no desire to fight. 

Assuming the PCs don't attack, they find a pleasant 
little grotto filled with thirsty goats. The goatherds 
gladly hustle their animals out of the way so the PCs 
and their mounts can drink. The water tastes a little 
funny, but it doesn't pay to be too fussy about the 
drink one finds in the desert. 

The goat herders are friendly and offer the party 
goat cheese and warm goat milk. They can relate the 
following: 

" The goat herders are nomads who visit this place to 
find water and forage for their goats. There are six 
herders here today. 

• Yes, the valley is haunted, but the spirits are kind to 
poor and honest men. 

• The spirits take the form of a thundering herd of 
horsemen who gallop through the air raining arrows 
and fire down upon those who displease them. Once 
the spirits become angry, they cannot be stopped. 

• The spirits are the ghosts of a band of thieves whose 
lair remained hidden even after they had been cap 
tured. They awoke a few years ago when a traveler 
broke in and stole the tiniest bauble. Now, the ghosts 
range up and down the valley looking for their lost 
jewel. Searching for the ghosts' remaining treasure 
would be most unwise and would bring more than 
just bad luck. 

• The party should avoid camping in the open. There 
are plenty of caves, and an abandoned caravanserai 
lies deep in the valley's midst. There, the spirits are 
benign, if they deign to show themselves. Some very 
lucky travelers are entertained with music and dance 
while staying there. 

• The herders cannot afford to accompany the charac 
ters on their trip. Herding goats in the desert is a full 
time job. 

Most of the herders are exactly what they seem, 
level 0 humans who are tending their goats. One of 
them, however, is actually a jama allied with the efreet 
from the caravanserai. The jann doesn't attack, but 
unless the PCs can fly directly to the caravanserai at a 
speed faster than a jann's (30), the efreet know about 
their presence in the valley. 




Hospitality 


The herders believe what they have told the PCs. 
The efreet planted the story years ago. Their tale of 
horsemen galloping through the air is an accurate 
account of one of the genies' attacks on a passing car 
avan. Their warning about not sleeping in the open is 
a local folktale. The efreet don't attack everyone who 
enters the valley because that would scare people 
away; instead, they pick on weak or unwary groups. 
The efreet do not regard the PCs as such a group. 

At the Caravanserai 

The caravanserai sits atop a low bluff a few hun 
dred vards from the vallev floor and the main cara- 

J J 

van trail. On a dark night, it is possible to pass by 
oblivious to the caravanserai, but it is clearly visible 
in sunlight or moonlight. 

A winding trail about 10 feet wide weaves up the 
front of the bluff to the main gate, with a narrower 
trail brandling off to snake down to the back gate. The 
whole place is surrounded by a mud-brick wall 6 feet 
high. The wall is crumbling and the characters can 
easily find a place where they can scramble over the 
top. However, there is not much room on the bluff 
outside the wall, and groups who try to circle the cara 
vanserai to triangulate the next segment's location are 
in for a difficult time; the bluff is only about 85 yards 
wide and 130 yards long. Unless the PCs can fly, it is 
impossible to accurately pinpoint the Rod's location. 

Inside the compound an air of neglect and slow T 
decay reigns. Opportunistic desert plants grow in 
every crevice where dirt and moisture can be found, 
walls are cracked and faded, and the ground is littered 
with whatever form of debris is most appropriate for 
the immediate area-fronds and leaves near the gar 
dens, broken roof tiles near the buildings, and the 
occasional gnawed bone just about everywhere. (The 
bones are from the giant rats that the resident mephits 
occasionally catch and eat.) 

The genies living in the compound keep a constant 
lookout for intruders and are difficult to catch 
unawares. Two jann lookouts are posted on top of the 
house (near area 13), and one jann watches each gate 
(areas 1 and la). These four jann see visitors 
approaching long before they arrive at the com 
pound, unless they are invisible. Even invisible crea 
tures are noticeable when they converse with one 
another, scale a wall, open a door or gate, or just walk 
around the Uttered compound. If the goatherds saw 
the part}', the genies know they are coming, even if 
they are invisible when they enter the compound. 


The genies do not attack immediately when they 
note the party; instead, they try to maintain the illu 
sion of an abandoned compound occupied by spirits, 
until they are ready to launch one mass attack. 

DM Note: This chapter is divided into two parts: 
the first part describes the areas of the caravanserai, 
and the second section explains the how the denizens 
react to the party's intrusion. As soon as the party 
approaches areas 10, 11,12, or 13, the genies respond 
with the Come into my Parlor event (see page 15). 

1. Main Gate 

The dusty trail leading up the bluff broadens into a 
path covered in crushed marble that crunches 
under your feet. The outer wall, which has seen 
better days, is doubly high where the path passes 
through, forming a rounded arch over a gate made 
of horizontal iron bars and heavy, vertical timbers. 
The gateway is large enough for two or three 
mounted men to ride through at once. 

One of the gate's two halves is slightly ajar, but it 
slams shut with a creak and a thud as you 
approach. There doesn't seem to be anyone 
around. Perhaps a freak gust of wind closed the 
gate; there does seem to be a pretty good breeze 
blowing. Or perhaps it was your own footfalls that 
set the gate to swinging. 

An invisible jann posted here pulled the gate 
closed. The gate is not locked, and the party can eas 
ily pull it open again. The jann does nothing except 
eavesdrop on the party. He is all but silent as he flies 
about. The party can spot him with a detect invisibility 
or true seeing spell, but he is too wary to be detected 
by nonmagical means. 

If the party spots him and reveals their perception 
(cither by talking or pointing), he becomes ethereal 
and retreats to the house. Characters viewing him with 
detect magic or true seeing see a ghostly image walking 
away to the north, passing through tree trunks in area 
2 before disappearing through the stable walls (area 4). 
Unless the PCs can become ethereal, too, they cannot 
follow the jann, even if they can see him. 

If not detected, the jann follows the party around, 
noting who does what, and periodically flying to area 
20 to tell the efreet what he has learned. 

Jann (Genie): AC 5 (1 when invisible); MV 12, FI 30 
(A); HD 6+2; hp 32; THAC0 15 (14 with Strength 



bonus); #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 2d8+4 (great scimitar + 
Strength bonus) or ld6+4/ld6+4 (short composite 
bow + Strength bonus); SA spell-like abilities; SZ M 
(6' tall); ML champion (16); Int very (11); AL N (LE); 
XP 3,000; MM/126. 

Notes: 18/80 Strength. 

Spell-like abilities as 12th level caster -enlarge or 
reduce twice a day, and invisibility three times a day. 

Can create food and water once a day as a 7th level priest, 
and can become ethereal once a day for up to an hour. 

If a jann enlarges itself, it becomes about 12 feet tall 
(size L) and all its damage rolls are increased by 220% 
(multiply damage dice by 2.2, round up, and add 
Strength bonus). 

la. Back Gate 

This area is similar to the front gate, except that the 
gate is narrower and there is no pathway of crushed 
marble. The gate is closed when the party 
approaches, and the invisible jann guard here (use the 


statistics listed above) makes a show of slamming the 
gate shut behind the characters after they enter. 

2. Date Palms 

Towering palm trees (about 100 feet tall) form a belt 
of cool shade between the front wall and the stables. 
The ground is littered with palm fronds and unhar 
vested dates. 

A smoke mephit is lounging in one of the trees, 
shirking its duties in the kitchen and sipping from a 
jug of wine it has stolen. If the party leaves the path, 
mephit flies from tree to tree until it reaches a posi 
tion directly overhead. Then it drops its wine jug on 
a random PC and flees to area 7, chortling. The target 
character is hit unless he rolls a successful saving 
throw vs. breath weapon. If the saving throw fails, 
the character suffers 1 d4 points of damage from the 
impact and is drenched in wine that turns his clothes 
into a sticky, purple mess. Even if the save succeeds, 
the character is still splashed with some wine. 









Hospitality 


Smoke Mephit (Imp, Mephit): AC 4; MV 12, FI 24 
(B); HD 3; hp 13; THACO 17; #AT 2; Dmg Id2/ld2 
(claw/claw); SA breath weapon, spell-like abilities; 

SZ M (6' tall); ML average (8); Int average (8); AL LE; 
XP 420; MM/202. " 

Notes: Breath weapon can be used 
round without limit; it is a ball of smoke that auto 
matically strikes one creature within 20 feet, causing 
ld4 points of damage and blinding the victim for ld2 
rounds (no saving throw). A blinded character suffers 
a -4 penalty to his attack rolls and his opponents 
attack with a +4 bonus. 

Can cast invisibility and dancing lights once a day as 
a 3rd level caster. 

If killed, a smoke mephit disappears in a flash that 
inflicts one point of damage to all creatures within 10 
feet (no saving throw). 

3. Inner Gate 

These portals are similar to the main gate. The two 
northern gates are smaller and have only one valve. 
The party can easily open them, but they creak 
loudly. The gates are not guarded, but the lookouts 
atop the house notice if they open. 

4. Stables 

These areas are part of a long, low brick building 
with a leaky tile roof. The outer doors are split into 
upper halves and lower halves. They are closed when 
the PCs arrive, but not locked. The inner doors are 
narrower and are latched shut. They can be broken 
down (with normal open doors rolls) or unlatched 
from the hallways running from area 5. Each 10-foot 
stall has a manger filled with rotting hay, an empty 
water trough, and rotting straw on the floor. 

Near the southwest corner, three stalls (marked 
with Xs) each contain a pair of neglected mules. The 
animals are hungry and thirsty. If they hear anyone 
speaking or moving outside their stalls or opening 
doors nearby, they bray loudly. The mules have been 
here about a week; the genies captured them in a raid 
and plan to sell them as soon as they can spare a jann 
to take them to a city. The mephits from area 7 are 
supposed to feed and water them, but they don't do 
so very often. The mules hate mephits and kick or 
bite anything that even vaguely resembles them. 
(Most PCs don't have to worry.) Unfortunately, they 
associate the smell of wine with mephits, and will 
kick or bite a character who was splashed in area 2. 


The party can quiet the na^S-fey water 

and feeding them. There is wateriivtbe pool in area 6 
and grain and fod^gll^^Segfanaries (area 5). If fed 
and become friendly (except 

who remind them of mephits). A 
St-j - ipeatWim animals spell reveals the following: 

• "We were walking through the rocks and carrying a 
lot of heavy stuff when flying things attacked. We 
couldn't smell anything, but we saw horses running 
through the air and things falling. There was a lot of 
noise-hoofbeats, shouting, and thunder." 

• "The tall men on the air horses put halters on our 
humans and led them away." 

• "We ran away, but a mean red horse herded us here." 

• "Some awful bird men sometimes feed us, but not 
very often. Once in a while one of the tall men feeds 
us and talks to us. They told us that they own us now, 
and we should tell them if the bird men hurt us." 

The mules are describing an attack by the jann and 
efreet. The "tall men" were jann, who can speak with 
animals naturally. The "mean red horse" was a poly- 
morphed efreeti who rounded them up and brought 
them here. The "awful bird men" are the mephits. 

The mules call them that because they have big noses, 
like beaks, and wings. If the PCs ask, the mules tell 
them the bird men don't have feathers. 

Mule (Horse) (6): AC 7; MV 12; HD 3; hp 13 each; 
THACO 17; #AT 1 or 2; Dmg Id2/ls6 (bite/kick); SZ 
M (6' tall); ML unsteady (5); Int animal (1); AL N; XP 
65 each; MM/194. 

Notes: Only attacks mephits, individuals similar in 
appearance to mephits, or those reeking of wine. 

5. Granaries 

These areas are half a story higher than the rest of 
the stables. Lofts about 6 feet high occupy the extra 
space; these contain old straw. The ground floors har 
bor untidy collections of hay, more straw, clay pots of 
grain, odd bits of tack and harness, and assorted agri 
cultural implements. The west granary is less disor 
dered than the east one, but only because the efreet 
force the mephits to maintain it. 

The east granary is home to a colony of giant rats, 
led by the wererat Finnek. For years the wererat has 




hospitality 


lived here with the genies unaware. Tire wererat 
views the party's arrival as an opportunity to seize 
control of the caravanserai. When the PCs enter the 
granary, they observe that they are being watched by 
dozens of tiny rat eyes. If they don't attack, Pirrnek 
reveals himself and takes human form. 

Finnek is a conniving and untrustworthy character, 
but he does know a good bit about the caravanserai's 
owners. He can tell the party that the veiled women 
are medusae, and that the rest are genies of one kind 
or another (Finnek is unsure). He knows about the 
prisoners in area 10a. He can give the party the basic 
layout of the house, including the upstairs. 

Finnek wants little in return for his information. He 
wants the PCs to get rid of the genies for him, some 
thing he could never do. He refuses to join in any 
fight, and disappears into the burrows under the 
stalls if confronted. For his information, he wants the 
party's promise to leave the caravanserai, and not to 
harm him or his pets. 

Giant Rats (Rat) (20): AC 7; MV 12, Sw 6; HD 1 /2; 
hp 2 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld3 (bite); SA dis 
ease; SZ T (2' long); ML unsteady (5); Int semi (2); AL 
N (E); XP15 each; MM/300. 

Notes: Bites cause a 5% chance (cumulative) of 
inflicting a debilitating disease unless the opponent 
saves vs. poison. Check once for each character when 
the fight is over. If the save fails, the disease takes 
effect in ld6 turns. The victim loses 1 points of 
Strength (or 10% of exceptional Strength) immediately 
and one additional point each hour until Strength is 
reduced to 2. At that point, the character is helpless 
and cannot move, cast spells, or fight. Recovery 
requires ld3 weeks of rest. A cure disease spell applied 
before the disease takes effect prevents Strength loss. 

Finnek (Lycanthrope, Wererat): AC 6; MV 12; HD 

3+1; hp 16; THACO 17 (15 with long sword+2); #AT 1; 
Dmg ld8+2 {long sword +2); SA lycanthropy; SD 
harmed only by silver or +1 or better magical 
weapons; SZ M (4_' tall); ML steady (12); Int very (11); 
AL LE; XP 270; MM/237. 

Notes: Anyone damaged by a wererat has a 1% 
chance per point of damage of contracting lycan 
thropy and becoming a wererat. Check once for each 
character at the end of the encounter. Damage from 
both weapons and bites can infect an opponent with 
lycanthropy. 

30-foot infravision. 

Special Equipment: Long sword +2. 


6. Garden 

The medusae from area 16 make an effort to keep 
the flowers, shrubs, and trees here watered and free 
of weeds. The central pond is only about six inches 
deep, and the water is tepid and scummy. 

There is nothing of value here, but if the PCs enter 
the compound unnoticed and are not expected (by 
bypassing the goatherds), one or two medusae are 
here tending the plants (use the statistics from area 
17). The medusae are heavily veiled and act shy. They 
claim to be slaves and offer to conduct the party to 
their lord. If the PCs comply, the medusae take the 
party to area 13. 

If the party attacks the medusae, they use their 
gaze weapons and try to retreat to area 13. In any 
case, the lookouts at the house note the goings on and 
quickly inform the efrect. 

7. Smithy 

This open area has a packed clay floor, a smoking 
forge, and a battered anvil. A white-hot lump of mat 
ter from the Plane of Elemental Fire keeps the forge 
burning continuously. The efreet replenish it every 
few weeks. The smith is a salamander that lives in the 
forge. The room sees some use, but mainly serves as 
living quarters for the mephits, who enjoy the heat 
and smoke. 

The mephits spend most of their days sitting on or 
near the forge swapping tall tales, insulting each 
other, and trying to think up pranks they can play on 
the medusae without getting petrified. The mephits 
don't always get away with their pranks, and there is 
a statue in area 16 to attest to that fact. The salaman 
der usually stays in the forge unless there is work to 
do or somebody to fight. 

If the efreet know the party is in the compound, the 
mephits have orders to stay hidden and leave the PCs 
alone. However, the mephits aren't good at obeying 
orders, and they can't resist needling the party just a 
bit if they get the chance. 

When the PCs approach the smithy, the mephits 
stick their heads out the doorways and greet the PCs: 

There seems to be some sort of patio or arcade in 
the corner of the building you are approaching. 

You catch a whiff of sulphurous smoke in the air, 
along with a more resinous scent that stings your 
nostrils. Upon a brief study of the shadowy inte- 





rior, you conclude that it must be a smith's shop. 
There is an anvil and a forge with a fire roaring 
inside. Three outrageously dressed humanoids 
squat on the floor, looking quite out of place. They 
quickly spring to their feet and swagger to the 
edge of the arcade. All three creatures wear bright 
green turbans and loose robes with flowing 
sleeves-one caftan is orange, one red, and one has 
red and blue stripes. The robes are sooty and 
threadbare, and their open collars reveal sunken, 
hairless chests with mottled gray skin. Slits in the 
back of each creature's robes accommodate a pair 
of small, leathery wings. The creatures have enor 
mous, pointed ears and long, hooked noses. One of 
them bows with a flourish. 

"Welcome, travelers, to the province's only 
haunted caravanserai." The other two nod in 
agreement. "Say, is that a dagger in your armor or 
are you just glad to be here?" The joke causes the 
speaker's two companions to giggle. "Don't worry, 
the only spirits you have to worry about, other 
than the ones they serve in the dining hall, are the 
ones that glow in the dark. Yep, those are mean!" 

Just at that moment, two faintly glowing figures 
rise from the forge. They are vaguely humanoid, 
but look to be composed of dancing flames. The 
creatures, who have been nodding, glance behind 
them and give startled gasps. 

The two mephits who aren't talking created the 
glowing figures with their dancing lights abilities. If the 
PCs don't fall for the ruse, the mephits use their breath 
weapons and fly away, shouting insults. If the party 
seems in the least bit concerned, the mephits scream, 
"Don't look, you'll go blind!" Immediately thereafter, 
they shout "too late" and breathe on the characters 
who are looking away; if no one is, they breathe on the 
characters closest to them and fly away to area 8. If the 
mephit from area 2 is here, it lurks behind its fellows 
and creates a third glowing figure. 

The salamander stays quiet through all of this and 
remains hidden in the forge. If the PCs begin messing 
around with its forge, it attacks. 

Salamander (Elemental, Fire-Kin): AC 5/3 (head 
and torso/snake body); MV 9; HD 7+7; hp 42; 

THACO 13; #AT 2; Dmg 2d6/3d6 (spear + heat/tail + 
heat); SA constriction; SD immime to fire, sleep, charm, 
and hold, harmed only by +1 or better magical 
weapons; SW cold-based attacks inflict an extra hit 


point per die of damage; SZ M (7' long); ML elite (13); 
lnt high (13); AL CE; XP 2,000; MM/103. 

Notes: Fire resistance negates heat damage, reduc 
ing spear damage to ld6 points and constriction dam 
age to 2d6 points. 

Smoke Mephits (Imp, Mephit) (3): AC 4; MV 12, FI 
24 (B); HD 3; hp 13 each; THACO 17; #AT 2; Dmg 
Id2/ld2 (claw/claw); SA breath weapon, spell-like 
abilities; SZ M (6' tall); ML average (8); lnt average 
(8); AL LE; XP 420 each; MM/202. 

Notes: Breath weapon every other round without 
limit; it is a ball of smoke that automatically strikes 
one creature within 20 feet, causing ld4 points of 
damage and blinding the victim for ld2 rounds (no 
saving throw). Blinded characters suffers a -4 penalty 
to their attack rolls and their opponents attack with a 
+4 bonus. 

Can cast invisibility and dancing lights once a day as 
a 3rd level caster. 

If killed, a smoke mephit disappears in a flash that 
inflicts one point of damage to all creatures within 10 
feet (no saving throw). 

8. Kitchen 

This area has a fireplace, a table, and a washtub full 
of dirty water and even dirtier dishes. Three mephits 
are supposed to be at work here, but one is playing 
hooky in area 2. The mephits do all the cooking and 
cleaning. They try to avoid doing the dishes for as 
long as they can, and sometimes get away with just 
throwing away the dirty ones if a caravan the genies 
loot happens to be carrying crockery. These mephits 
have no stomach for fighting and flee out one of the 
other doors when the PCs burst in. If pursued, they 
use their breath weapons. 

The three rooms to the west hold supplies. The 
southernmost room holds three cask-sized ceramic 
jars of dates gathered from area 2. The center room 
holds beverages, including several pots of sweet wine 
like the one that the mephit in area 2 has. The north 
room holds dry goods such as flour. 

Smoke Mephits (Imp, Mephit) (2): AC 4; MV 12, FI 

24 (B); HD 3; hp 13 each; THACO 17; #AT 2; Dmg 
Id2/ld2 (claw/claw); SA breath weapon, spell-like 
abilities; SZ M (6' tall); ML average (8); lnt average 
(8); AL LE; XP 420 each; MM/202. 

Notes: Breath weapon every other round without 
limit; it is a ball of smoke that automatically strikes 



Hospitality 


one creature within 20 feet, causing ld4 points of 
damage and blinding the victim for ld2 rounds (no 
saving throw). A blinded character suffers a -4 
penalty to his attack rolls and his opponents attack 
with a +4 bonus. 

Can cast invisibility and dancing lights once a day as 
a 3rd level caster. 

If killed, a smoke mephit disappears in a flash that 
inflicts one point of damage to all creatures within 10 
feet (no saving throw). 

9. Dining Hall 

This room originally served the caravanserai's 
poorer (or thriftier) guests. Now, the mephits use it 
for dining and carousing. They have broken all the 
chairs and are well on their way to destroying the 
tables. The mephits' leavings provide good pickings 
for the compound's bolder giant rats. Of course, the 
mephits like to eat the rats. Several rats are scaveng 
ing in here; they rush the characters as they enter, 
hoping to drive them off. If the PCs stand their 
ground, the rats scatter and scurry away. 

Giant Rats (Rat) (7): AC 7; MV 12, Sw 6; HD 1/2; 
hp 2 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld3 (bite); SA dis 
ease; SZ T (2' long); ML unsteady (5); Int semi (2); AL 
N (E); XP 15 each; MM/300. 

Notes: Bites cause a 5% chance (cumulative) of 
inflicting a debilitating disease unless the opponent 
saves vs. poison. Check once for each character when 
the fight is over. If the save fails, the disease takes 
effect in ld6 turns. The victim loses 1 points of 
Strength (or 10% of exceptional Strength) immediately 
and one additional point each hour until Strength is 
reduced to 2. At that point, the character is helpless 
and cannot move, cast spells, or fight. Recovery 
requires ld3 weeks of rest. A cure disease spell applied 
before the disease takes effect prevents Strength loss. 

10. Sleeping Rooms 

The caravanserai's guests stayed in these chambers. 
Each room has a table, a rug, and three beds. Once 
these were snug and comfortable; now they are 
squalid, smelly, and infested with fleas and other 
crawling horrors. The furniture is rotten and worth 
less. The windows have shutters, but no glass. Cur 
rently, all the shutters are closed and latched from the 
inside. 

Alert: The jann from area 13 comes out to greet the 


PCs when they approach this area; see the Events sec 
tion for details. 

10a. Prisoners 

These two rooms have padlocked doors. Inside are 
six level 0 humans, chained together. The genies cap 
tured them, but have yet to transport them to the City 
of Brass. The prisoners are weak from two weeks of 
neglect and abuse and are not capable of fighting. 
They know very little about the compound, but reveal 
the following if the PCs ask the right questions. 

• "Our silk caravan was attacked by a horde of 
screeching bowmen who rode mounts that galloped 
through the air. They rained arrows down upon us 
and scattered our beasts like chaff on the wind. Our 
spellcasters and guards found themselves sur 
rounded by flame and cut off. Our archers were 
beginning to drive off the flying bowmen when a 
score of assassins appeared among us and killed our 
leaders. We were forced to surrender." 

• "Several of the assassins-about five--threw chains 
around our necks and led us here. We haven't seen 
them since they chained us up. The tall, skinny imps 
bring us food and water when they feel like doing so, 
which isn't very often." 

• "We occasionally hear people talking out in the 
courtyard, and sometimes women's voices, but no 
one has ever answered our cries." 

11. Well and Garden 

The flowers and shrubs here are beautiful and well 
cultivated; the dirt between the plants has been 
freshly turned, as if the garden had been weeded 
recently. Even in the dry season, a visitor can enjoy a 
variety of subtle fragrances from the blossoms. 

The well is a simple hole in the ground with a stone 
cover. The PCs can open it easily. A large bucket 
anchored to the ground with a wooden stake and a 
40-foot chain allows water to be drawn from the well. 
Hauling enough water up to keep the two gardens 
green and the bath filled (area 12) is a backbreaking 
job, but well within the capabilities of the current resi 
dents. 

A statue west of the well depicts a veiled woman 
dancing. The figure is well made, but clearly artificial; 
it is not lifelike and it has a low pedestal. Years of 






desert sun and wind have blurred fine details such as 
the eyes and the folds of its robe and veil. 

Halfway between the well and the statue, the 
genies have buried a chest containing some of the loot 
taken from caravans. The chest is not locked, but it is 
buried under 4 feet of earth. The only way the party 
can find it is by digging in just the right spot or with a 
ring of x-ray vision. The chest contains 10 base 10 gp 
gems, 9 base 50 gp gems, 9 base 100 gp gems, 7 base 
500 gp gems, and 4 base 1,000 gp gems. 

Alert: The jann from area 13 comes out to greet the 
PCs when they approach this area; see the Events sec 
tion for details. 

12. Baths 

This building has a domed roof covered in pale 
white and green tiles that shine brilliantly in the sun. 
The jann use the building to relax during the day. 
Sunlight filtering through tiny panes of blue and 
green glass in the geometric on the dome illuminates 
the room softly. 

Inside, reflections from the large central pool play 
over the dome in an ever-changing pattern, and every 
sound creates a faint echo, giving the place an atmos 
phere similar to an undersea grotto. The pool is about 
3 feet deep and the water feels cool on the skin. It is a 
perfect place to relax after a day in the dust and dirt. 

If the PCs got this far without being detected, four 
jann are here, splashing about. (Use the statistics from 
their quarters in area 17.) To the PCs, the jann look 
just like tall, olive-skinned humans. 

If the PCs barge in on the bathing jann, they hap 
pily invite the group to join them in the pool, then 
fade from sight as they become ethereal and retreat to 
the house to get clothing and weapons. 

Alert: The jann from area 13 comes out to greet the 
PCs when they approach this area; see the Events sec 
tion for details. 

12a Private Baths 

These areas are surrounded by wicker screens 
about 7 feet high. Each contains a stool and a round 
tub for taking hot baths. 

12b. Disrobing Area 

This area is also screened. It contains a bench and a 
rack for clothes. If there are jann using the pool, their 
clothing, armor, and weapons are here. 




I he Ho use- 


hospitality 


This building is made from fired brick. The interior 
is dim and cool, even during the day. The ceilings are 
12 feet high. All the windows are covered with lac 
quered wood lattices that screen the interior from 
view unless a character has his nose pressed right up 
against the lattice. Creatures inside the house can see 
outside clearly during daylight. The openings in the 
lattice are too small to admit anything larger than a 
grasshopper. (Note that the minimum size for a char 
acter using a polymorph self spell is size of a wren.) The 
lattices are removable, but this is not readily evident, 
even to elves. The PCs can pry them loose with suc 
cessful open doors rolls. The caravanserai residents 
know how the screens work and don't need to roll. 

The house's ground floor is included on Map Cl. 
The upper floor is shown on Map C2. 

13. Courtyard 

This area is open to the sky, except for the central 
section, which is covered by a tattered awning with 
beige and orange stripes. Two tables and eight chairs 
sit under the awning. A screen similar to the ones 
covering the windows stands just beyond the door 
leading in here, and a clever jann guards the door 
from behind it. The screen is about 10 feet high. 

Meanwhile, two lookouts are posted on top of the 
house. If the lookouts see the party approaching the 
house, examining area 10, or entering areas 11 or 12, 
they pass word to the guard, who immediately comes 
out to greet the characters; see the Events section. 

If the PCs enter this area without being seen, the 
jann notices when the door opens. He turns invisible 
and flies to area 16 via the trap doors in the ceilings. 
On the way, he alerts the efreet in area 20. 

Jann (Genie) (3): AC 1; MV 12, FI 30 (A); HD 6+2; 
hp 32 each; THACO 15 (14 with Strength bonus); #AT 
1 or 2; Dmg 2d8+3 (great scimitar + Strength bonus) 
or ld6+3/ld6+3 (short composite bow + Strength 
bonus); SA spell-like abilities; SZ M (6' tall); ML 
champion (16); Int very (11) (lookouts), exceptional 
(16) (guard); AL N (LE); XP 3,000 each; MM/126. 

Notes: 18/50 Strength. 

Spell-like abilities as 12th level caster- enlarge or 
reduce twice a day, and invisibility three times a day. 

Can create food and water once a day as a 7th level priest, 
and can become ethereal once a day for up to an hour. 

If a jann enlarges itself, it becomes about 12 feet tall 


(size L) and all its damage rolls are increased by 220% 
(multiply damage dice by 2.2, round up, and add 
Strength bonus). 

14. Guard 

A jann is always on guard in one of these four 
chambers (determine randomly). He watches area 13 
through the shutters. Trap doors in the ceilings allow 
him to fly quickly to area 19 without being seen. 

If the PCs start a fight before the genies are ready 
for their big attack, the jann avoids contact with the 
party. He waits until the PCs are engaged elsewhere, 
then attacks from behind. 

Jann (Genie): AC 1; MV 12, FI 30 (A); HD 6+2; hp 
32; THACO 15 (13 with Strength bonus); #AT 1 or 2; 
Dmg 2d8+5 (great scimitar + Strength bonus) or 
ld6+5/ld6+5 (short composite bow + Strength 
bonus); SA spell-like abilities; SZ M (6' tall); ML 
champion (16); Int very (11); AL N (LE); XP 3,000; 
MM/126. 

Notes: 18/95 Strength. 

Spell-like abilities as 12th level caster- enlarge or 
reduce twice a day, and invisibility three times a day. 

Can create food and water once a day as a 7th level priest, 
and can become ethereal once a day for up to an hour. 

If a jann enlarges itself, it becomes about 12 feet tall 
(size L) and all its damage rolls are increased by 220% 
(multiply damage dice by 2.2, round up, and add 
Strength bonus). 

15. Entry Hall 

This area is empty except for an exquisite carpet; it 
weighs about 75 pounds and is worth 550 gp intact. 
During the day, the hall is lit well enough for the PCs 
to see the screen, the door leading to area 16, and the 
curtain leading to area 17. The stairs are always visi 
ble unless the area is utterly dark. 

16. Harem 

The doors leading into this room open easily 
enough once the PCs locate the secret doors. The 
screen at the room's west end is similar to those cover 
ing the windows, but it is not removable. Still, the PCs 
can break through it with a successful open doors roll. 

Unless the genies are completely unaware of the 
PCs, which is unlikely given how many guards and 
lookouts the party has to pass to get here, Naala, the 






Hospitality 


female efreeti from area 20, stops the characters 
before they enter this room. She steps through the 
normal door to the west if the PCs approach from 
area 15, or opens the secret door to the east and steps 
into the doorway if they approach from area 14: 




horns, 


¦ ¦ 

portal before you opens to reveal a massive 
tanoid with a maw full of sharp teeth, ivory 


, and a mane of shaggy black hair. Despite it 


the voice is decidedly feminine. 

"Hold, strangers," it says. "You approach the 
harem of my master, Ehudi ben Gliim. Surely thou 
art not so rude as to enter such a place uninvited? 

If thou art guests and not bandits bent on savagery, 
T pray you retire to the courtyard, where my mas 
ter will attend." 




If the PCs comply with Naala's request, run the 
Come into my Parlor event. If not, Naala holds the 
doorway against the PCs while the medusae form up 
behind her and try to use their gaze weapons on the 
party's first rank. 

Six medusae live here. If the PCs have killed or cap 
tured any medusae elsewhere in the compound, there 
are correspondingly less. The rooms contain divans 
and cushions upon which the medusae rest when not 
engaged in something important. There are carpets 
on the floor, but they aren't valuable. 

There is also a statue of a leering mephit. The crea 
ture tried too hard to play a prank on the medusae and 
got petrified for its efforts. It is worth 200 gp if sold. 


Medusae (6): AC 5; MV 9; HD 6; hp 30 each; 
THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (dagger); SA petrifica 
tion, poison; SZ M (5'6" tall); ML elite (13); Int very 
(12); AL LE; XP 2,000 each; MM/247. 

Notes: A medusa's gaze causes a save vs. petrifica 
tion or the victim is turned to stone; the range is 30 
feet. Surprised characters and attackers in the front 
rank must save each round. If the character attempts 
to avoid looking into the medusa's gaze, there is only 
a 20% chance of meeting its gaze. Completely avert 
ing the eyes is effective, but incurs the standard 
penalties for fighting while blinded (-4 to hit, +4 to be 
hit). See the DMG, Chapter 9. 

A medusa can strike at victims with its hair/ 
snakes; a hit inflicts no damage, but the target must 
save vs. poison or die; onset time is immediate. 

Special Equipment: lOdlOxlOO gp worth of silver and 
copper jewelry each. 


16a. Bedchamber 

This room once served as the bedchamber for the 
senior member of the caravanserai's harem. Now, it 
houses two medusae. They have comfortable beds 
salvaged from area 10a. 

16b. Cubicles 

One medusa sleeps in each of these areas. The only 
furnishings are thick mats woven of reeds, rugs, blan 
kets, and pillows. None of these are valuable. 

17. Jann Quarters 

Fourteen jann call this chamber home, but no more 
than four are here at any given time. Four are always 
out scouting the valley for caravans to raid. Another 
six remain on duty somewhere else in the compound. 
When awake and off duty, the jann spend their time 
in the bath (area 12). 

If the PCs are known to be in the complex, any jann 
not assigned elsewhere are here awaiting orders from 
the efreet. 

The room's main area contains cushions and 
divans; the floor is bare. The alcove to the east con 
tains a weapon rack filled with extra scimitars, short 
composite bows, and flight arrows. Any jann who 
have abandoned their equipment in the baths (see 
area 12) come here to get replacements. 

The area behind the pillars and curtains is the 
sleeping area. It is piled high with rugs, pillows, and 
blankets. Three of the rugs are valuable, but it takes a 
turn of searching to dig them out. Each weighs 25 
pounds and is worth 50 gp. 

Jann (Genie) (4): AC 1; MV 12, FI 30 (A); HD 6+2; 
hp 32 each; THACO 15 (14 with Strength bonus); #AT 
1 or 2; Dmg 2d8+3 (great scimitar + Strength bonus) 
or ld6+3/ld6+3 (short composite bow + Strength 
bonus); SA spell-like abilities; SZ M (6' tall); ML 
champion (16); Int very (11); AL N (LE); XP 3,000 
each; MM/126. 

Notes: Strength 18/50. 

Spell-like abilities as 12th level caster -enlarge or 
reduce twice a day, and invisibility three times a day. 
Can create food and water once a day as a 7th level 
priest, and can become ethereal once a day for up to 
an hour. 

If a jann enlarges itself, it becomes about 12 feet tall 
(size L) and all its damage rolls are increased by 220% 




f lospitality 


(multiply damage dice by 2.2, round up, and add 
Strength bonus). 

18. Foyer 


regards you with a beady eye. "Hello," it says in a 
non-committal voice, calmly scratching its head 
with one claw. 


This area has a bare wooden floor. In daylight, the 
PCs can see into areas 19 and 20 from here. There is 
no railing protecting the stairwell, and characters 
stumbling around in the dark could very well fall 
down the stairs. (Roll ld6 for each character; a fall 
results on a roll of 1 or 2.) Though the drop is 12 feet 
at most, falling down the stairs results in 2d6 points 
of damage. A successful saving throw vs. breath 
weapon reduces the damage by half. 

Three statues line the stairwell. All are level 0 
human victims of the medusae (two wagon drivers 
and a porter). There are two clues that the statues are 
petrified creatures: first, they are extremely lifelike, 
and second, they have no pedestals. 

If the genies are forced to defend the stairwell or the 
courtyard, they can push these statues down the stairs 
or out the windows and use their enlarge abilities to 
make them more massive. An enlarged statue that is 
pushed down the stairs breaks into pieces that tumble 
down, inflicting 3d8 points of damage to every charac 
ter on the stair. A character struck by the fragments 
also must roll a successful saving throw vs. petrifica 
tion or be knocked to the bottom of the stairwell. 

It takes one round to position a statue at a window. 
Any character standing directly under the window 
must rolPa successful saving throw vs. death or be 
crushed underneath the statue, suffering 1 Od 10 points 
of damage. Creatures of huge size or larger and all 
creatures who succeed with their saving throws suffer 
5dl0 points of damage instead. 

If a statue is not enlarged, it inflicts 2d4 points of 
damage if dropped down the stairs and 3d4 points of 
damage if dropped out a window. 

19. Sitting Room 

This chamber is dimly lit by sunlight from a win 
dow on the east wall and diffuse light coming from 
some screens on the south wall. Several tables and 
chairs are strewn about, suggesting that this might 
have been a family room at one time. Now, how 
ever, it is piled high with jars, boxes, canvas bags, 
rugs, and bolts of cloth. 

Standing amid all the clutter is a wooden perch 
with a big, black crow sitting on it. The bird 


The bird is an imp polymorphed into raven form. A 
detect evil spell reveals it to be an evil creature, and true 
seeing exposes its true form. If the party doesn't defeat 
it before searching the room, the imp uses its sugges 
tion ability to convince a character that one of the rugs 
is a carpet of flying and that it would be a good idea to 
test it by jumping out the window. That's just what 
the character does if he fails his saving throw, assum 
ing that the other PCs don't stop him. 

Tf the party talks to the crow, it answers every ques 
tion with a few short, cryptic words such as: "feed the 
mules, ingrate!" "welcome to my miserable home," 
and "would you like coffee?" It keeps up the domes 
tic pet routine for as long as possible. 

The caravanserai's original residents used this area 
as a parlor. The genies have piled up all manner of loot 
taken from caravans here. There are bags of coffee, jars 
of honey and spices, bolts of cloth, and rugs. The coffee 
and honey have no little value; the party could sell the 
40 pounds stored here for 2-10 gp. The spices are light 
weight (8 pounds) and worth 400 gp. Most of the cloth 
is worthless, but there are 40 bolts of silk, each weigh 
ing 10 pounds and w'orth 100 gp. Twenty of the carpets 
have no real value; they weigh 10 pounds each and are 
worth 2 gp each. There are 15 more carpets, however, 
that each weigh 25 pounds and are worth 50 gp. 

Imp: AC 2; MV 6, FI 18 (A); HD 2+2; hp 12; THAC0 
19; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (bite); SA spell-like abilities; SD 
harmed only by silver or +1 or better magical 
weapons, immune to fire, cold, and electricity, regen 
eration; SZ T (2' tall); ML average (8); Int average (10); 
AL LE; XP 1,400; MM/201. 

Notes: Can polymorph self in to a raven or goat, can 
detect good, detect magic, or become invisible at will, 
and use suggestion once a day. All spell-like abilities 
function at 7th level, and the imp makes saving 
throw's as a 7 HD monster. 

Regenerates 1 hit point per round. 

20. Bedchamber 

This room is similar to area 17, but the two efreet 
live here. When not raiding caravans, they lounge on 
the furniture in the main area and sleep on the cush 
ions behind the curtain. 


14 





Hospitality' 


The alcove behind the curtain also contains the pet 
rified form of Asaph abdul Anat, the jackalwere men 
tioned in the introduction to this adventure. The 
genies can drop this statue on opponents below them 
as described in area 18. When the statue breaks, how 
ever, the Rod segments become separated from the 
stone and can be recovered easily. Asaph had the seg 
ments under his cloak when he was petrified, and it 
isn't apparent that he has the Rod at all. 

Efreet (Genie) (2): AC 2; MV 9, FI 24 (B); HD 10; hp 
50 each; THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 3d8 (fist); SA spell 
like abilities; SD resistant to fire; SZ L (12' tall); ML 
champion (16); Int very (12); AL N (LE); XP 8,000 
each; MM/126. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities as 20th level caster-grant 
up to three wishes, invisibility, assume gaseous form, 
detect magic, enlarge, polymorph self, and wall of fire, all 
once a day. Also once a day can create an illusion with 
visual and audial components that will last without 
concentration until dispelled or touched. Can produce 
flame and use pyrotechnics at will. 

Immune to all forms of nonmagical fire and to fiery 
breath weapons. Magical fire attacks inflict -1 hit 
point per die of damage (no minimum per die, a roll 
of 1 inflicts no damage). Fire-based attacks also suffer 
a -1 attack penalty. 

If an efreeti enlarges itself, it becomes about 36 feet 
tall (size G) and all its damage rolls are tripled. 

Special Equipment: Ring of telekinesis (25 lb capacity) 
(Ibbitsaad), potion of diminution (Naala). Each efreeti 
also carries a lock of the other's hair. If the PCs 
recover these, they can use them to make the glyphs 
required to join segments of the Rod. (The hair was 
freely given, just not to the PCs.) 

Asaph abdul Anat (Jackalwere): AC 4; MV 12; HD 

4; hp 19; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4 (bite) or ld8 
(scimitar); SA sleep gaze; SD harmed only by iron or 
+1 or better magical weapons; SZ M (6' tall in human 
or hybrid form) or S (3' long in jackal form); ML 
steady (11); Int very (12); AL CE; XP 270; MM/210. 

Notes: Unsuspecting creatures who meet the jack- 
alwere's gaze must save vs. spells or fall asleep for 2 
turns. The jackalwere can kill an undefended, sleep 
ing victim in one round. The gaze works on all living 
creatures regardless of hit dice. Frightened, suspi 
cious, or hostile creatures are not unsuspecting. Elven 
and half-elven resistance to sleep effects applies. The 
gaze's range is 3 to 10 yards, depending on the light 
available. 



Special Equipment: Segments 4 and 5 of the Rod of 
Seven Parts. 


Events 

It is likely that the PCs will be observed from the 
moment they enter the compound. Even should they 
sneak in unnoticed, the guards and lookouts 
undoubtedly will note their activities (opening doors, 
tramping around the grounds, talking, fighting giant 
rats and mephits, startling bathing jann, etc.). When 
the genies become aware of the party, they stage an 
elaborate ruse to make the PCs think they're dealing 
with a group of friendly spirits, not hostile genies. 
Once the characters are taken in, the genies attack. 

Come into my Parlor 

As explained previously, when the PCs approach or 
enter areas 10,11,12, or 13, the jann guard at area 13 
goes to greet the party. Using his ability to fly and to 
travel ethereally, the guard walks directly to where the 
PCs are standing, slowly materializing into view. 
Though he appears to be walking, he actually is fly 
ing, so his footsteps do not leave prints or make noise: 





f iospitality 


A ghostly figure comes into view, seemingly walk 
ing out of the wall to your west. Your visitor is a 
towering man with a neatly trimmed beard and 
smiling eyes that drink you in. He is dressed in a 
turban and desert robes and wears a jeweled dag 
ger in his belt. As he approaches, he seems to 
become more solid, but you notice that his san 
daled feet make neither mark nor noise on the 
crushed marble pathway. 

"Welcome to my miserable home!" says the man 
cheerfully. I am Ehudi ben Gliim, unworthy keeper 
of stables, and provider of lodgings and entertain 
ments for travelers such as yourselves." The man 
bows deeply, and you see the hilt of a dagger pro 
truding from between his shoulder blades. "It was 
generous of you to come; we get so few visitors 
now that the vengeful spirits haunt the vale below. 
Alas, my servants have nothing prepared, but if 
you would kindly follow me to the courtyard of 
my lowly house, coffee shall be brought, music 
shall be played, and my slothful servants shall pre 
pare rooms, draw baths, and tend to any steeds 
you may have." He bows again, the dagger hilt 
flashing in the sun. 

The dagger between Ehudi's shoulder blades is real 
enough; it has been driven into a thick pad under his 
robe. If the PCs speak with Ehudi, he has the follow 
ing responses: 

• "This place is called al Ehudi, the house of Ehudi. It 
is the only waystation in the valley, and you are hon 
ored guests." 

• If tlie party asks or complains about the mephits, 
Ehudi apologizes. He explains that after the arrival of 
the spirits, most of his human staff fled. When the 
"winged fellows" arrived, Ehudi pressed them into 
service. 

If the mephits have offended the party deeply, 
Ehudi offers to summon them so that the PCs may 
beat them for their insolence. If the PCs accept, Ehudi 
whistles and all the mephits in the complex come 
running and flying. They all look exactly alike to the 
PCs. Ehudi produces a leather strap and suggests that 
the party beat them all to teach them manners. He 
offers to do it himself if the characters don't wish to 
exert themselves in the heat. The mephits squirm and 
howl if beaten with the strap, but are unharmed. 


• If the party mentions the pathetic state of the mules 
in area 4, Ehudi flies into a rage, dances about, and 
shouts curses. He promises to beat his miserable ser 
vants until they beg for mercy. 

If the party presses the issue, he explains that the 
mules were left in his care by some roguish-looking 
merchants who didn't know when they would return 
for them. If left long enough, they will become 
Ehudi's property. 

• If the party mentions the prisoners in area 10a, 
Ehudi appears perplexed. He has no prisoners and no 
guests other than the PCs. If the characters have the 
prisoners with them, Ehudi says he assumed that 
they were the party's slaves. 

For their part, the slaves don't recognize Ehudi, but 
they say he looks a lot like one of the spirits who 
attacked them. When he hears that, Ehudi feigns con 
fusion. He wonders aloud how people imprisoned by 
spirits could have come here. Then he turns invisible 
and flies away. The genies attack wTien he disappears 
(see below). 

• If the PCs ask about the dagger in Ehudi's back, he 
looks puzzled. He explains that some bandits swept 
through the compound last week, but he stood them 
off. He passed out after being wounded in the back, 
and when he awoke, the bandits were gone and he 
and his guards were unharmed. The bandits occa 
sionally return, but they always are driven off. 

Ehudi is playing the role of an innkeeper who 
doesn't realize that he is a ghost. If the PCs insist on 
pulling the dagger out of his back, he allows them to 
do so. When they yank it out, they have a rusty dag 
ger with an old blood stain on the point. Ehudi is 
amazed, but then laughs and congratulates the char 
acter on an amazing bit of sleight of hand. He doesn't 
allow the PCs to examine him. 

Although he is evil, he is not evil enough to be 
detected with a detect evil spell, even when plotting 
the party's downfall. A successful detect lie spell even 
tually will catch him. 

After a few minutes of conversation, Ehudi once 
again invites them to the courtyard for coffee. He is 
insulted if they refuse. He peevishly explains that the 
party's rooms cannot be made presentable for quite 
some time. Then he relaxes and asks the characters if 
they would like to bathe before joining him for coffee. 
If they again refuse, he signals his compatriots to 
attack (see below). 


16 




If the PCs accept Ehudi's invitation to coffee, pro 
ceed to the next event. 

Coffee in the Courtyard 

If the PCs accept the invitation to coffee, Ehudi 
leads them to a table in the courtyard, where he bids 
them to be seated. When he claps his hands, two 
heavily veiled women walk through the west door 
bearing a pot of strong, sweet coffee and a cup for 
each PC and one for Ehudi. The women are medusae. 
They set the coffee service in front of the PCs and 
withdraw. Ehudi serves the coffee himself, motioning 
the PCs to wait until he has sampled the brew. He 
drains his cup, smacks his lips, and then bids the PCs 
to drink. The coffee pot rises on its own and refills his 
cup. (Ibbitsaad accomplishes this from area 18 via his 
ring of telekinesis.) 

Ehudi delays the PCs as long as he can. He asks 
what brings them here and invites them to relate the 
tale of their journey so far. If the PCs run out of small 
talk, he claps his hands and three dancing girls 
(medusae) enter the courtyard. They perform to 
music provided by a jann hiding in area 15; the jann is 
a proficient musician who uses a set of pipes of sound 


ing to make the music seem to come out of thin air in 
the courtyard. It sounds as though a whole group is 
playing. 

If the PCs don't start a fight, Ehudi eventually 
(after about a half hour) announces that the party's 
rooms are ready and leads them to area 10. He offers 
the characters the two rooms at the south end. If the 
characters balk at staying in two rooms, they can stay 
in one, but Ehudi explains that they will have to 
sleep two to a bed. If the party members all want 
separate rooms, Ehudi explains that the lack of busi 
ness has forced him to close the other rooms and 
these two are the only ones available. If the PCs are 
displeased, Ehudi apologizes profusely, beating his 
breast, tearing his hem, and eventually kneeling and 
throwing sand in his eyes. He keeps this up until the 
PCs relent. 

When the PCs are settled, Ehudi once again offers 
them baths. 

All Washed Up 

If the PCs accept the offer of a bath at any point, 
Ehudi directs them to area 12. One veiled medusa for 
each bather awaits with towels, soap, and bathing 



































































Hospitality 


garments. (There are only six medusae in the com 
pound, however.) The characters are directed to leave 
their equipment in area 12b and get into one of the 
tubs in area 12a. (Two characters will have to share a 
tub if there are more than six.) 

Once the characters are out of sight, two or three 
mephits snatch the PCs' equipment and drop it down 
the well. A single mephit can carry one person's 
equipment and drop it down the well each round. 

The PCs can hear someone moving around, and if 
they peek out the doors or over the screens they can 
see their belongings being taken. 

As the mephits are carting away the last of the 
party's equipment, the medusae walk in on the PCs 
and unveil, hoping to petrify the characters. That 
done, the medusae and the rest of the mephits retreat 
to area 16, where the mephits use their breath 
weapons and the medusae use their gazes on the 
unblinded. While all this is going on, the genies 
attack. 

Items dropped down the well fall 40 feet into a 
water-filled, circular cavern about 20 feet wide and 15 
feet deep. There is a thick layer of mud covering the 
cavern floor, and the mephits weight the equipment 
to be sure it sinks. 

The shaft is only about 2 feet across, and very 
smooth and slippery. It cannot be climbed and is too 
small for man-sized or larger creatures to fly or levi 
tate down. The characters can get their things back if 
they can get down to the cavern, but it takes one char 
acter a full turn to locate all the items in the muck at 
the bottom. If a character is searching for a particular 
item, there is a 10% (cumulative) chance each round 
that it is included in whatever the character dredges 
up. A character using a detect magic spell can find all 
the magical items in the well in five rounds but still 
must spend another five rounds looking for the non- 
magical equipment. 

Dancing the Night Away 

If the PCs don't accept Ehudi's offer of a bath, he 
wrinkles his nose and excuses himself while he goes 
to see about preparations for a meal. 

Soon after, a parade of servants arrives at the 
party's rooms carrying an array of platters and cov 
ered dishes. The party is being served a multi-course 
meal that will take hours to finish. If the PCs eat it, it 
will be dark by the time they finish eating and they 
will be too sleepy to do much. The food isn't 
drugged; the characters are just naturally tired after 


eating so well. The PCs can post sentries if they wish, 
but they are so stuffed and tired they don't really care 
to do anything but sleep. 

If the PCs refuse the food, the genies attack. 

If the PCs eat and fall asleep, have each character 
roll a check vs. one half his Wisdom score. Characters 
who succeed awaken in the night and hear music in 
the courtyard; those who fail remain asleep. Charac 
ters who stayed awake for guard duty don't need to 
roll; they hear the music. 

Any PCs who investigate the music see six women 
in filmy clothes and veils dancing in the garden (area 

11) . There are no musicians in sight. The dancers are 
medusae, and they unveil and try to petrify the PCs 
as soon as they come out to see the show. When the 
characters react, the genies attack. 

The Attack 

While Ehudi speaks to the PCs, all the genies and 
mephits in the compound gather at the house. The 
medusae remain in area 16 until called, and the 
genies and mephits gather in area 20. Everyone stays 
out of sight, and the PCs don't notice a thing unless 
they have some way of viewing the entire com 
pound. 

Two of the jann hurry to area 10 to prepare two 
rooms for the party. They bring fresh linens and rugs 
from area 19 and refurbish the two rooms at the south 
end of the compound. This takes about 20 minutes. 
Two more jann remain in area 15, eavesdropping on 
the group and creating food and drink for Ehudi's lit 
tle party. The efreet are in area 18, also eavesdrop 
ping. They can view the party through the holes in 
the awning. 

The mephits and the imp are in area 19, waiting for 
the signal to attack. 

The five remaining jann fly behind the baths (area 

12) and hide behind the dome, waiting for the signal 
to attack. The jann who are preparing the rooms join 
them when they are finished, as do the jann from 
area 15 if the party leaves the courtyard (area 13). 

The genies attack when Ehudi signals, when the 
party attacks Ehudi, or when they just plain get tired 
of waiting. Their first targets are characters who are 
in area 13; they worry about flushing any PCs out of 
buildings when they finish with the ones outside. 

When the attack begins, the efreet move to area 20, 
where they can see both area 13 and area 11. One 
efreet creates the illusion of 20 horse archers gallop 
ing through the air and raining arrows down on the 







hospitality 


party. They enter from the east, fire arrows, then turn 
south and come around for another pass. Ehudi, if he 
is with the party, pretends to be enraged and calls for 
his bow, which floats out of the house to him (carried 
by an invisible jann). During the illusory barrage of 
arrows, the real jann who are flying over area 12, 
invisibly, launch arrows of their own. The illusory 
horsemen ignore spell effects, but they respond to 
missile or melee attacks as long as the efreeti concen 
trates on the illusion. If a character actually touches 
one of the horsemen, they all disappear; attacks with 
weapons don't count as touching the illusion. 

Characters who are looking at the flying horsemen 
won't notice the real arrows or the jann, even when 
the jann become visible, unless the players specifi 
cally state that the characters are looking around. 

Note that the jann have to move west to attack char 
acters in area 13. 

Any character who seems suspicious of the illusion 
becomes the target of the imp's suggestion ability. The 
imp suggests that the horsemen are a serious threat 
and must be eliminated. The suggestion carries a sav 
ing throw penalty of -4. If the character fails his sav 
ing throw, he must attack the illusion in the most 
effective way possible for ld4+l rounds. The other 
efreeti uses its wall of fire power to surround the 
party's spellcasters in a ring-shaped wall of fire with 
the hot side toward the inside. 

On the archers' second pass, they feather Ehudi 
with arrows and he vanishes into thin air; Ehudi has 
turned invisible and flown up to join the jann archers. 
After "killing" Ehudi, the archers turn south as 
before, but disappear behind the bluff. 

The next round, they return from the east again 
and make another firing pass, bringing another 20 
horsemen. The second efreeti has created an illusion 
of more horsemen; the first has dropped the original 
illusion and is ready to drop a wall of fire on the PCs. 

After the second wall of fire is used, the genies 
enlarge themselves and close in to melee. The illusory 
horsemen continue circling the compound and firing 
for the rest of the day, but they no longer react to any 
attacks. The surviving medusae and mephits circle 
around to the party's flank or rear and attack. They 
avoid melee, using their gaze attacks and breath 
weapons when possible. 

The efreet fight to the death; the jann fight until the 
efreet are killed, then escape to the ethereal plane. The 
imps fly away when the genies flee, and the medusae 
do their best to withdraw. If Ehudi survives this long, 
he cannot escape with the other jann because he 


already has made a trip to the ethereal today, so he 
surrenders instead. 

Illusory Horsemen (40): AC 2; MV 10, FI 48 (A) 
(illusory speed); EID 5; hp 20 each; THACO 11 (illu 
sory combat effectiveness); #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (flight 
arrow); SD ignore spell attacks except dispel magic; 

SZ L (horse and rider); ML n/a; Int n/a; AL N (LE); 
XP nil. 

Notes: When "killed," horse and rider fall out of 
the air. All damage inflicted is illusory. Illusory dam 
age persists for a maximum of ld3 turns. If a charac 
ter is reduced to zero hit points or less by illusory 
damage, he falls unconscious and must pass a system 
shock roll. If the roll fails, the character dies; other 
wise he falls unconscious and reawakens after ld3 
turns with all illusory damage healed. 

Troubleshooting 

If the PCs try to retreat from the compound, the 
genies pursue. 

In any case, the genies abandon the compound 
after a major confrontation. They take the prisoners 
form area 10a with them but leave everything else 
behind. Finnek the wererat (area 5) is ecstatic. 

Because the Rod is part of a statue, some groups 
might become frustrated when searching for it. If the 
party has captured Ehudi, the jann suggests that one 
of the statues might have what they want. Alternately, 
Arquestan or Qadeej could arrive and help them out. 
In any case, Ehudi tells the party where the gems in 
area 11 are buried, just to get into the party's good 
graces. 

Nobody except Qadeej knows for sure what would 
happen to the Rod if Asaph's statue is broken. Arques 
tan is likely to suggest that the party restore all the 
statues. One of the wagon drivers has already failed 
his system shock roll and is dead, but assume the rest 
have succeeded (including Asaph). Asaph will gladly 
hand over the Rod. He believes it to be valuable, but 
has no idea what it does. He explains that he got it 
from a giant he killed. (This is not true, he actually 
got it from a wizard he killed.) He is very interested 
in learning more about the Rod and offers to join the 
PCs. If they refuse, he slinks off into the desert, mut 
tering; if they accept, he bides his time, then attacks, 
using his gaze attack and trying to devour his victim 
on the spot. 



The Rod's sixth segment rests in a pocket dimension 
created by the baate/.u Ulthut, a pit fiend. The Rod 
segment came to Ulthut's attention many years ago, 
when a supplicant brought it to a temple dedicated to 
evil. When the priests at the temple began experi 
menting with the segment, a horde of spyder-fiends 
swept over the area. The spyder-fiends would have 
seized the segment had Ulthut and a score of lesser 
baatexu not intervened. 

The battle destroyed the temple, and Ulthut was 
left with dealing with the Rod. Ultimately, Ulthut and 
M|s associates decided it would be best to keep the 
:3jpment somewhere safe, but not anywhere in Baa- 
tor (the baatezu's home plane), as this would encour 
age the Queen of Chaos to invade Baator and con- 
tnbute to the Blood War. The queen's quest for the 
m had long caused her to largely ignore this 
ancient feud between baatezu and tanar'ri, and 
Ulthut and his fellow pit fiends have no desire to 
change that situation. 

the baatezu decided to create a pocket dimension 
for the Rod segment that was secure against intru 
sions from spyder-fiends and other tanar'ri. Ulthut 
himself and a handful of servants would watch over 
the segment. Ulthut knows how to use the segment's 
hold mmster power, and has employed it over the 
years to secure an odd collections of denizens for the 
pocl^pjimension. 

Ultifut and his servants defend the segment from 
mortals who are too stupid or too weak to prevent it 
from falling into the queen's hands, but the pit fiend 
will surrender it to any lawful group who seems 
capable of evading the queen. If such a group proves 
powerful enough to confront and slay Miska, one of 
the most powerful of the tanar'ri, the baatezu will 
have disposed of a powerful enemy. 

Even if an attempt to slay Miska goes astray and the 
wolf spidtefis released, the baatezu would still be 
pleased. KS^Jsgyvould reopen the war between Law 
and Chaos on the Prime Material Plane, not on the 
lower planes, where the Blood War rages. The baatezu 
would welcomesuch a drain on tanar'ri resources. 

Sea re hind for the Pocket Dimension 

The fifth segment of the Rod points to the gate into 
the pocket dimension. The gate is located in or near 
any city, possibly the city in which the Golden Cocka 
trice lies (see Book I). f 

The foundations to the temple still stand, sur 
rounded by a small graveyard. The whole area has 


been fenced in. The gate in the fence doubles as the 
portal to the pocket dimension. 

If the PCs don't have the fifth piece of the Rod, 
Arquestan can direct them to the site. He does not 
know for sure if there is a part of the Rod here, but he 
knows the spyder-fiends attacked the place for some 
reason. He suspects that the ruins might house some 
kind of dimensional gate or portal that will lead the 
group to the sixth piece. 

In either case, the group can easily pick up the story 
of the temple's demise when they reach the city where 
it is located. Any local can tell them the following: 

• The temple and cemetery were dedicated to an evil 
deity. The worshippers and priests there were not 
well-liked, but everyone believed it was best to have 
someone around who could keep the deity happy. 

• Fifty years ago, a horde of horrible fiends with spi 
der bodies and wolf heads appeared out of nowhere 
and swarmed all over the place. They massacred 
everyone in the temple and tore the place apart, stone 
by stone. Then they left as quickly as they came. 

• The fiends probably served a rival deity. 

The first two points are accurate. The last is a local 
speculation. A particularly knowledgeable person, 
such as a sage, priest, or bard, would tell the PCs that 
the fiends were drawn by something the priests at the 
temple had discovered. 

i 

About the Pocket Dimension 

The pocket dimension is a tiny universe similar in 
nature to the Prime Material Plane. Inside, characters 
find the temple and its grounds in pretty much the 
same condition they were before the spyder-fiends 
attacked, except that the area is perpetually cloaked 
in the dim, blue light of a waxing moon. The entire 
universe is a block 220 feet wide, 280 feet long, 250 
feet high, and 250 feet deep. An iron fence about eight 
feet high marks the universe's boundary at ground 
level, but the barrier is invisible everywhere else. 
Characters trying to break though the fence, jump 
over it, or tunnel under it meet an invisible and 
unbreakable barrier. No amount of strength and no 
force of magic that the characters can summon can 
penetrate this barrier at a point other than at the gate. 
Trying to exit the universe at any other point pro 
duces a similar result. 





1 he Forgotten Temple 


Inside the pocket dimension, conditions are similar 
to an autumn night. The air feels cool and a little 
humid, but not uncomfortably so. The grass on the 
grounds is damp to the touch as if from morning dew. 
The air is clear and maximum visibility is about 100 
feet (see PHB, table 62). However, these conditions are 
forever fixed; no sun will ever rise. 

DM Note: The pocket dimension is not part of the 
Prime Material Plane, and the Queen of Chaos's chaos 
gate power (see Book III) does not work inside it. 

About the Temple and Grounds 

The original temple was dedicated to an evil deity; 
the DM is free to choose one appropriate to the cam 
paign, but gods of death, war, disease, or blood fit the 
site best. If it all possible, the deity should be a notori 
ous one, whose evil is well known to the players. 

The temple ruins exist normally in the Prime Mate 
rial Plane; characters standing outside the fence see 
only the graveyard and ruins. The characters can 
bypass the gate and examine the ruins if they wish, or 
they can pick the lock in the gate and just walk into 
the area. Nothing the characters do on the Prime 


Material Plane affects the pocket dimension in any 
way. The reverse is also true; the pocket dimension is 
an artificially created reality, not a portal through 
time. Groups who explore the ruins on the Prime 
Material before proceeding into the pocket dimension 
might have an advantage, but they expose themselves 
to some dangers as well. 

The DM maps (C3-C6) show the temple as it exists 
in the pocket dimension; the DM/player map (Card 
3) shows the temple as it exists on the Prime Material 
Plane. The text for the adventure begins with com 
plete information for the major encounter areas in the 
pocket dimension. Notes for the corresponding area 
on the Prime Material Plane follow in their own sec 
tion at the end of the area description (if the area 
exists on the Prime Material Plane at all and has not 
been destroyed). 

Alert: Two of the temple's residents undertake 
patrols. Anytime the party spends more than a few 
rounds in areas 3,5,15, or 19, there is a chance that the 
mummy Deitrich (see area 9) makes an appearance. 
With every turn that the party remains in one of these 
areas, there is a cumulative one in six chance he arrives 
to survey the area. Meanwhile, Ulthut the pit fiend 










I he Forgotten Temple 


checks areas 4,7,11,14, and 17 regularly, with the same 
chance of encountering the party (see area 10). 

V?sf\ 

Tracking the Rod 

While the PCs are on the Prime* Material Plane, the 
fifth segment of the Rod always points to the gate; 
once they enter the pocket dimension, the fifth seg 
ment indicates direction in which the Rod lies, pro 
vided the segment isn't within the 70-yard minimum 
distance. Ulthut carries the sixth piece, and he is 
likely to be in area 10 or 14 when the PCs arrive, but 
as noted above, he travels throughout the temple. The 
characters quickly move into the minimum distance 
as they proceed inside. 

Throi j<> n the Portal 

°W 

Anyone carrying part of the Rod of Seven Ports (and 
any baatezu) who walks through the gate steps 
through the portal into the pocket dimension. A brief 
flash of energy proclaims the character's disappear 
ance. Anyone who dashes through the opening while 
it is flashing enters the dimension, too. it does not 
make a difference which direction the Rod bearer is 
traveling. The Rod bearer and his friends can leave 
anytime just by walking through the gate again. If the 
Rod bearer stumbles through the gate without his 
party, he can step right back out and get them. Some 
sound carries though the gate, and shouting on one 
side can be heard as whisper on the other. 

Read or paraphrase the following when the Rod 
bearer steps through the gate into the pocket dimen 
sion: 


There is a brief flash and a faint tingle of energy, 
like a shock of static, as you pass through the gate. 
On the other side, things are . .. different. It is 
dark, but a nearly full moon illuminates the scene. 
Where only moments ago you saw the wrecked 
foundation of a great building, you now see a lofty 
edifice with looming towers and banks of stained 
glass windows. The flagstone path at your feet is 
spotless, new, and weedless. The dewy grass is 
neatly trimmed, and where once were headstones, 
there is now nothing but manicured lawn. 

A look back through the gate reveals darkness 
beyond. If the Rod bearer pokes a finger or other 
appendage back through the gate, he opens the portal 


and can get a brief glimpse of the Prime Material, but 
there is a 50% chance that he will be drawn back 
there. The PCs can repeat this process as many times 
as they wish. It might take several trips through the 
gate to get everybody into the pocket dimension, 
especially if skittish characters jump back from the 
portal when it flashes. If the party was marching 
through the gate and the Rod bearer was not in the 
first rank, the first characters in the first rank proba 
bly will be left behind unless they immediately turn 
around and jump through the portal before it closes. 

If the characters go back and forth through the por 
tal more than a few times, Jory (the disguised spyder- 
fiend from the next section) notes their antics. 

On The Grounds 

The grounds are quiet and bathed in moonlight 
when the party steps through the portal. The lawn 
appears well-kept, but nothing other than perfect 
blades of grass grows in the earth. Nothing lurks out 
here. 

On the Prime: The grounds are a neglected ceme 
tery. Grass and weeds grow profusely with an 
overfed, unhealthy look. The flagstone paths show 
through the weeds, but they are slowly succumbing 
to the encroaching vegetation. Headstones from 
numerous graves are lost in the tall grass, having 
fallen over or sunk into the turf. 

Examining the grounds reveals very little. The 
headstones have unfamiliar names and cryptic, 
derogatory epitaphs such as: "Here lies Bettrand of 
Alantes, poorly rich and meanly superior." If the 
party actually goes to the trouble to dig up any of the 
old graves, they find bodies which are largely decom 
posed. Upon close examination, it becomes clear that 
the corpses suffered violent deaths. 

At night, a pack of ghouls and ghasts prowl the 
area and attack almost anything living. (They have 
learned to avoid the spyder-fiends.) During the day, 
they retreat to area 19. When the ghouls see the party 
disturbing any of the graves, they attack the party to 
defend their food supply. 

Ghouls (13): AC 6; MV 9; HD 2; hp 9 each; THACO 
19; #AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6 (claw/claw/bite); SA 
paralysis; SD immunities; SW blocked by protection 
from evil, subject to holy water and turning; SZ M (5'- 
6' tall); ML steady (11); Int low (5); AL CE; XP 175 
each; MM/131. 




i he Forgotten Temple 


Notes: Touch causes a save vs. paralysis or become 
paralyzed for ld6+2 rounds. Elves are immune to the 
paralysis. 

Immune to sleep, charm, hold, cold, poison, and 
paralysis. A hit with a vial of holy water inflicts ld6+l 
points of damage. 

Ghasts (Ghoul) (2): AC 4; MV 15; HD 4; hp 18 each; 
THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld8 (claw/claw/ 
bite); SA paralysis, stench; SW cold iron weapons 
inflict double damage; SD immunities; SW subject to 
holy water and turning; SZ M (5'-6' tall); ML elite 
(13); Int very (11); AL CE; XP 650 each; MM/131. 

Notes: Touch causes a save vs. paralysis or become 
paralyzed for ld6+4 rounds. Elves are not immune. 
Exudes a carrion stench in a 10-foot radius. Living 
creatures in the radius must save vs. poison of suffer 
a -2 attack penalty for the duration of the encounter. 

Immune to sleep, charm, hold, cold, poison, and 
paralysis. A hit with a vial of holy water inflicts ld6+l 
points of damage. 

Meanwhile, a lycosidilith polymorphed into human 
form observes the temple around the clock. It cannot 
use the portal, but instead it keeps an eye on the 
grounds. If it sees the party using the Rod, it returns to 
the Steaming Fen and gathers reinforcements, return 
ing 2d4 rounds later via one of the Queen of Chaos's 
chaos gates (see the Chaos Gate adventure from Book 
III). If the PCs have passed through the portal in the 
interim, he waits near the gate for their reappearance. 

Each turn the party spends exploring the site, there 
is a 10% chance that the PCs catch sight of the fiend 
peeking at them. Unless they attack, he calmly 
approaches the party and introduce himself as Jory 
Staable. He claims to be a vampire hunter here to 
investigate the area. If the PCs ask him about the site, 
he tells them what any other local would (see page 
20). He says he is more interested in the site's rats and 
occasional reports of undead. He says he is sure there 
is a vampire hiding in this unhallowed place some 
where. After speaking with the PCs for a short time, 
he complains that the party is making too much noise 
for him to continue his investigation and walks away. 
Thereafter, he turns invisible and shadows the PCs. 

Jory Staable (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Lyco 
sidilith): AC 10 (no armor in polymorphed form) or -4; 
MV 12 or 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 10+6; hp 51; THACO 9 
(8 with short sword +1); #AT 2 or 3; Dmg ld6+7/ld6+7 
(short sword +1) or 2d4/ld6+7/ld6+7 (bite/short 



sword +1); SA spell-like abilities at 10th level, poison, 
gating, webs; SD webs, harmed only by +2 or better 
weapons, immunities, invisibility detection; SW suf 
fer full damage from iron weapons and half damage 
from silver weapons; MR 60%; SZ M (5' 6" tall) or L 
(8' long); ML champion (15); Int exceptional (16); AL 
CE; XP 22,000; See Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- darkness 15' 
radius, teleport xvithout error, cause fear (in a single crea 
ture by touch), invisibility, telekinesis; three times a 
day- forget, mirror image, polymorph self, always 
active- infravision (90-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld3 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The opponent can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d6 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the opponent 
develops a festering sore after 2d8 hours, losing one 
hit point and one additional hit point each day until 
he receives a neutralize poison spell. The opponent suf 
fers a -3 penalty to Dexterity for 2d6 rounds. 

Gate ability works three times a day with a 60% 
chance of success; it summons 2d 10 kakkuu, ld8 
spithriku, ld4 phisarazu, or 1 lycosidilith. 




The Forgotten Temple 


Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a 
save vs. breath weapon, or wrap helpless or uncon 
scious creatures; entangle effect in a 10'x50'x20' cone 
(range 0), fire a lightweight ball that extends the 
range of the fear ability to 30 yards; every two 
rounds- glitterdust effect (range 40 yards); every three 
rounds- web effect (range 50 yards). All webs have 
only a 50% chance to burn if attacked with fire. Can 
use a web ability while attacking physically but not 
while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Invisibility detection is always active and is non 
magical; cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and 
effects that block divination magic (50-foot radius). 

Personality: Nosy, reckless, focused. 

Special Equipment: Short sword +7. 

First Floor 

This area has vaulted ceilings and lots of stained 
glass windows. The stonework is mostly marble and 
granite; the windows are glassteel and not terribly 
pleasant to look at, showing scenes of death, suffer 
ing, and carnage. They reminded worshippers what 
would await them if they offended their deity. 

Moonlight filtering through the windows fills the 
interiors with thick masses of blue and brown shad 
ows. Normal vision extends about 50 feet. Sound car 
ries well on this floor; a normal conversation is audi 
ble 70 feet away, and combat can be heard anywhere 
in the building unless there is a closed door between 
the fight and the listener. 

Teleporters: The colored ovals marked with Ts are 
teleporters. They look like thin brass plates set into the 
floors and are activated when a being steps on one, 
then turns to face west. If the user already is facing 
west he must turn all the way around (either direc 
tion). A teleporter functions once per round, transport 
ing one creature and up to 200 pounds of additional 
weight, which can be equipment or other creatures. 

All the teleporters on this level lead to area 19a or 19b 
(50% chance for either, determined randomly). 


ing within 15 feet of a sinkhole must roll a successful 
saving throw vs. petrification or start a collapse that 
dumps him and everyone within 10 feet into the 
lower level. The fall inflicts 4d6 points of damage. A 
feather fall spell reduces the damage to ld6 points. A 
dwarf or other character skilled in locating unsafe 
stonework has the normal chance to spot the danger. 

The rubble makes invisible characters fairly easy to 
notice; anyone within 50 feet gets a chance to detect 
the invisible creature when it moves. If Jory is invisi 
bly shadowing the group, he avoids this area. 

All the teleporters have been destroyed, though a care 
ful search reveals their outlines (treat as secret doors). 
They are inoperative even if the outlines are found. 

1. Main Entrance 

A wide flight of steps leads up about 8 feet to a 
long stone wall with three doorways. The center 
entrance is 10 feet wide and 18 feet high; it has a pair 
of iron doors embossed with grinning skulls. The two 
side doors are similar in appearance but smaller, 
about 5 feet wide and 8 feet tall. 

A frieze above the doorways depicts all sorts of car 
nivorous animals and monsters devouring their prey. 
Above the frieze, stone vultures leer down at the party. 

None of the doors are locked. The huge center 
doors require an open doors roll to operate, but the 
side doors open easily. All the doors swing inward 
silently when opened. 

On the Prime: All the party finds here is the flight 
of steps leading up to the platform. 

2. Unholy Water Font 

The hallway leads to a round chamber several 
paces across. An octagonal pool with a polished 
copper liner lies flush with floor and fills most of 
the room. The water in the pool is about six inches 
deep; both water and liner gleam in the moonlight. 
The floor around the pool is paved with smooth, 
black tiles. They seem to be dry but they have a 
slippery look to them. Three stained glass win 
dows here show scenes of watery doom: a flood, a 
tidal wave, and a sinking ship. 


Visitors are expected to prostrate themselves in 
front of the pool and anoint themselves with water 
taken from it. The water is unholy water, which harms 


On the Prime: There is nothing more than a foot 
high left on this level. The shifting debris and weak 
ened floors make the place dangerous. Anyone walk 


24 







good creatures from the upper planes and paladins. A 
character who is susceptible to unholy water suffers 
ld6+l points of damage if he performs the ritual. 

If anyone enters the chamber without performing the 
ritual, or if anyone defaces the area, the water weird 
imprisoned in the pool attacks. Because it is formed 
from unholy water, it inflicts ld6+l points of damage if 
it bites a creature vulnerable to that substance. Any 
such creature dragged into the pool by the water weird 
suffers 2d4+2 points of damage each round in addition 
to the standard drowning attack (see below). 

The copper lining is worth 20-40 gp and w r eighs 
about 160 pounds. The smooth tiles are thin sheets of 
obsidian. If the characters pry them up carefully, they 
can get 5dl0 tiles worth 10 gp each. 

Alert: If the fight here is prolonged and audible, the 
abishai from area 4 join in. 

Water Weird (Elemental, Water Kin): AC 4; MV 12; 

HD 3+3; hp 18; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg drowning; SA 
drowning; SD immunities, regeneration; SW intense 
cold acts as a slozo spell, purify water kills; SZ L (10' 
long); ML elite (13); Int very (12); AL CE; XP 420; 
MM/104. 

Notes: Invisible when in water form; detect invisibil 
ity reveals only a vague presence. Can assume ser 
pentine form in two rounds. Melee hit as serpent 
causes the opponent to save vs. paralyzation or be 
pulled into the water. Each round spent under water 
requires another save vs. paralyzation or the oppo 
nent drowns. Only killing or disrupting the water 
weird allows escape. 

Suffers no damage from fire-based attacks if the 
saving throw succeeds, and only half damage if it 
fails. Suffers only one point of damage per hit from 
slashing or piercing weapons (regardless of damage 
bonuses). If reduced to 0 hit points or less, is merely 
disrupted and reforms in 2 rounds. 


executioner, a hunter, a warrior, a robed skeleton, 
and an assassin. Each statue has a small basin 
below it and a stone bench facing it. 

There are five windows in the chamber showing 
scenes of disasters with a human element: a city 
falling to invaders, a hanging, a murder, victims of 
a plague, and a riot. 




Visitors to this chamber could sit here and meditate 
privately or offer prayers for deliverance or protec 
tion. The basins below the statues radiate both evil 
and alteration magic. Supplicants at the temple could 
place small sacrifices in the bowls to help curry the 
deity's favor. The basins are still active. Characters 
who damage or deface the basins, or try to defile 
them with holv water become cursed, as a bestow 
curse spell, with no saving throw. The curse lasts one 
day or until the character receives a remove curse spell; 
however, the counterspell is not automatically suc 
cessful. For every' level the caster is below 20th, there 
is a 5% chance for failure. For example, a 12th level 
caster has a 40% of failure. 

Supplicants who please the deity with the sacrifice 
of a magical item (including potions and scrolls) or 
valuables worth at least 300 gp receive the equivalent 
of a prayer spell for one day. Anything placed in the 
basins disappears, instantly whisked to another plane. 
The prayer is cast at 20th level. The prayer effect imme 
diately becomes a curse (as the bestow curse spell) if the 
character attacks Deitrich, the high priest, or tampers 
with this area or with areas 5,6,8, or 12. 

Alert: Each turn the party spends in this room there 
is a cumulative one in six chance that Deitrich wan 
ders by. See area 9. 

On the Prime: The only thing here is the jagged 
stump of the pedestal. 


On the Prime: The party finds only an empty octago 
nal hole in the floor. The copper lining and obsidian 
tiles are gone. 

3. Side Chapel 

-ISHtyji 4t. ill§ 

This circular chamber has a hexagonal pedestal 

about 2 feet high. A small statue of a fearsome- 
looking deity stands at each edge of the hexagon. 

All six statues show the same figure in different, 
unwholesome guises. There is a stem judge, an 


4. Nave 

This cavernous room has a vaulted ceiling 40 feet 
high at the walls and nearly twice that at the peak. 
The windows here all depict various mortals who 
have impressed the deity in the past: rapacious gener 
als, tyrannical kings, scheming wizards, and the like. 

Five abishai are on guard here, keeping a lookout 
for intruders. When anyone enters the nave, four of 
them dive and attack, and the remaining abishai flies 
to warn Ulthut. The creatures have no stomach for a 
prolonged fight, and attempt trickery if the battle 


IS 






f he Forgotten Temple 


goes against them, using their abilities to change self, 
charm , and create illusions. They run if endangered, 
using the teleporters at the west end of the nave or 
the teleporters near areas 2 and 3. Two abishai can use 
a single teleporter in the same round. 

Alert: If alerted by the abishai, Ulthut casts 
improved invisibility and arrives on the scene to study 
the party. Moreover, each turn the party spends in 
this room there is a cumulative one in six chance that 
Ulthut just happens by. See area 10 for details. 

Black Abishai (Baatezu, Abashai, Black) (5): AC 5; 

MV 9, FI 12 (C); HD 4+1; hp 19 each; THACO 17; #AT 
3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld4+l (claw/claw/tail); SA spell 
like abilities, poison; SD harmed only by +1 or better 
weapons, gating, immunities, regeneration; SW suf 
fers full damage from silver weapons, susceptible to 
holy water; MR 30%; SZ L (8' tall); ML average (10); 
Int average (9); AL LE; XP 7,000 each; MM/11. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will -advanced illusion, ani 
mate dead, change self, charm person, produce flame, pyrotech 
nics, scare, suggestion, teleport without error; always 
active- know alignment, infravision (90-foot range). 

A successful tail hit requires the victim to save vs. 
poison or die (onset time is one round). 

Dive attacks are +2 to hit and cause double dam 
age, but no tail attack is possible. 

Gating works once a day with either a 60% chance 
of summoning 2-12 lemures or a 30% chance of sum 
moning 1-3 abishai. 

Immune to fire and poison. Half damage from cold 
and gas. Regenerates 1 hit point a round. A vial of 
holy water inflicts 2d4 hit points per vial and such 
damage cannot be regenerated. 

On the Prime: All that remains are jagged stumps 
of pillars and a few shards of broken glass, which has 
lost its glassteel enchantment. The sinkholes drop 20 
feet to the floor of area 20. See page 24 for more 
details on the sinkholes. 

5. High Altar 

The priests of the temple addressed the congrega 
tion from this 15-foot-high dais. There is no access to 
the top except for the teleporter, which made for 
impressive entrances and departures. Characters can 
fly or climb to the dais. 

This area is open to the roof of the central tower 200 
feet overhead, though area 14 is only 25 feet above the 
dais. 


The statue behind the altar is some 25 feet tall and 
very imposing, but otherwise unremarkable. If the 
players go through the extreme effort of removing it, 
it is worth approximately 10,000 gp. It shows the 
deity in its usual avatar form. 

The altar is a little less than 3 feet high. It is made of 
alternating bands of black marble and red granite, 
and it is fitted with three sets of shackles to restrain 
small, man-sized, and large creatures. Grooves and 
drains lead down to area 18. 

A secret trap door north of the altar opens into a 
chute that leads to area 18 as well. A stud on the 
altar's northeast corner opens the chute. The charac 
ters can find the secret door by successfully searching 
either the altar's north face (which reveals the stud), 
or the section of dais north of the altar (which reveals 
the door). Only a knock spell or pressing the stud 
opens the door, however. Characters standing north of 
the altar when the stud is pressed must roll successful 
saving throws vs. petrification or fall down the chute 
into a pit of green slime (refer to area 18 immediately). 

Alert: The abishai from area 4 attack anyone poking 
around in this area. Each turn the party spends in this 
room there is a cumulative one in six chance that 
Deitrich checks in on his patrol. See area 9. 

On the Prime: The altar and statue have been com 
pletely obliterated, and the dais has been reduced to a 
pile of rubble. A hole choked with debris remains 
where the chute to area 18 was. 

5a. Altar Screen 

The ceiling in this area is 20 feet high. Two bronze 
statues depicting the deity arrayed for battle stand to 
the east, between the high altar (area 5) and a cage of 
heavy steel bars. The north and south ends of the cage 
have what looks like locks and hinges for doors (like 
jail cells), but these are false. This is intended to remind 
worshippers that the priests of the temple, and only 
the priests of the temple, are the keepers of the deity's 
mysteries. It also serves to make uninformed burglars 
waste time picking the locks. Each "door" has a real 
lock, but it isn't connected to anything. 

As objects of art, the two statues are worth 5,000 gp 
each. Each weighs 2,000 pounds. 

On the Prime: The stubs of the bars still rise out of 
the floor, but there is nothing else here. 





[Tie Forgotten Temple 


6. Low Altar 

This chamber has a ceiling 40 feet high, with a bal 
cony 20 feet above that. The priests conducted ser 
vices and ceremonies here that did not involve the 
entire congregation, such as funeral rites and the few 
helpful spells they could be persuaded to perform. 

The windows show scenes from the lower planes. 
One depicts an army of baatezu on the march, another 
shows a trio of night hags galloping on nightmares, 
and a third reveals boatmen plying the river Styx. 

The dais where the altar sits is about 2 feet high. 
This altar is similar to one in area 5, but without the 
shackles and drains. A large white gold plate rests 
here, along with seven adamantium candlesticks. 
These accoutrements are not magical, but the plate is 
worth 2,000 gp and each candlestick is worth 250 gp. 
The plate weighs four pounds and each candlestick 
weighs one pound. 

On the Prime: The altar has been shoved out of place 
and badly cracked. It is the tallest part of the ruin. 

7. Cloister Yard 

This area is grassy and pleasant. The holes lead 
down to the rat warrens (area 21). There are three 
giant rats nosing about, but they vanish down the 
holes when the PCs arrive unless the party surprises 
them. If PCs manage to attack them, use the statistics 
from area 21. 

Alert: Any disturbance here brings forth the wights 
from their cloisters (area 7a). Also, each turn the party 
spends in this room there is a cumulative one in six 
chance that Ulthut checks in on his patrol. See area 9. 

On the Prime: There are holes and rats here, too, 
but not the same rats. If the party kills the rats here, 
they still have to deal with the ones in the pocket 
dimension and vice versa. 

7a. Cloisters 

A wight inhabits each chamber. Because of the 
tremendous evil in this place, the wights count as 
spectres for turning attempts. Even if a turning 
attempt succeeds, subtract two from the roll for num 
ber of undead turned; if the result is zero, no wights 
are turned. 

The wights return to their rooms if turned. Should 
the party pursue them, they fight and cannot be dri 


ven back with further turning attempts. They can be 
forced to remain in their rooms. 

Once the small rooms served as quarters for junior 
priests. Each room contains a bed, a chest of drawers 
filled with priest robes, and a silver unholy symbol. 
The clothes and furniture are worthless, but the 
unholy symbols are worth 25 gp each. 

Wights (9): AC 5; MV 12; HD 4+3; hp 23 each; 
THAC0 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (touch); SA touch causes 
energy drain; SD immunities, harmed only by silver 
or +1 or better magical weapons; SW subject to holy 
water and turning (as spectres); SZ M (5' tall); ML 
elite (14); Int average (9); AL LE; XP 1,400 each; 
MM/360. 

Notes: Touch drains one level of life energy. 

Immune to sleep, charm, hold, cold, poison, and 
paralysis. A vial of holy water inflicts 2d4 points of 
damage. 


On the Prime: The rooms are wrecked and contain 
only splinters of wood. 





I he Forgotten Temple 


8. West Chapel 

The double doors leading into this area are similar to 
those in area 1; characters must make successful open 
doors rolls to open them. The chamber's floor is about 
15 feet below the floor in the rest of this level. The 
daises are about two feet high, with altars similar to 
the one in area 5 but lacking the shackles and drains. 

The windows here depict priests using spells to 
conquer foes. In one scene a priest is ordering a horde 
of undead to attack, in another a priest is reducing a 
foe to dust, in another a priest is sending a wave of 
insects swarming over a group of ores, and in the last 
scene a priest is scribing a symbol in the air in front of 
a dragon, who is cowering back before the perceived 
power of the deity's priest. 

The priests used this chamber for services that were 
too big for area 6 but too minor for area 5. They also 
used it for secret ceremonies such as inducting 
novices into their service. The large altar in the south 
west was used to enchant items. 

On the Prime: Rubble entirely fills the sunken sec 
tion of this chamber. 

9. High Priest's Quarters 

Deitrich, the high priest of the temple, was killed 
during the spyder-fiend assault. Nevertheless, he con 
tinues to look after the building. After an elaborate 
funeral, Deitrich returned as a mummy-not a ban- 
daged-wrapped horror, but a cadaverous man with 
burning eyes and a ghostly voice. His graying brown 
hair was razor cut at the time of his death, and has 
gotten a bit shaggy and frizzy since his return. He 
wears a close-fitting black robe with a hood and a sil 
ver death's head emblazoned on the left breast. He 
carries a mace, which he seldom uses, and a belt with 
pouches for spell components and other equipment. 
His feet are bare. 

In undeath, Deitrich calls this chamber home. He 
has a canopied bed, a soft couch, and a teak writing 
desk. The desk weighs 75 pounds and is worth 150 
gp. The windows are normal glass protected with 
glassteel spells. The room has a vaulted ceiling 12 feet 
high at the outer walls and about 20 feet high at the 
inner walls. The place is drafty, but as a mummy 
Deitrich hardly notices. 

Deitrich spends most of his time laying in bed or on 
the couch, brooding about his lost life. But he does 
not sleep; once an hour, he uses the teleporters to visit 


areas 5, 3, and 15. 

If he learns that invaders are in the temple, he casts 
protection from lightning, free action, and spell immunity 
(magic missile) on himself, then goes to area 12 and 
casts magic font (using the unholy water font there). 
He uses the font to locate the PCs, then uses the tele 
porter to get to the PCs' general location. Just before 
he makes the final teleport, he pauses to cast detect 
magic. If the characters catch him unawares, he acti 
vates the nearest teleporter to escape, then casts his 
spells and returns to confront them. If the PCs try to 
stop him, he'll gladly drag one of them onto the tele 
porter with him so he can fight one on one. (Treat the 
grab as a wrestling attack, except that the opponent 
does not get a free counterattack.) 

When looking at the party directly (not via his magic 
font) Deitrich instinctively knows which ones have 
received prayer effects from area 3 and which have 
been cursed. If the party contains no cursed characters 
and at least one character with a prayer effect, Deitrich 
hails them before attacking, asking the characters 
what they seek. Deitrich's ring of truth quickly reveals 
any falsehoods the PCs might tell him, and he bluntly 
asks them if they have come for the Rod. If the PCs 
don't open up an attack and say yes, Deitrich tells 
them to wait and returns with Ulthut. 

When attacking, Deitrich prefers to soften up the 
opposition with a flame strike spell first. He concen 
trates his attacks on cursed characters, where possible, 
and won't attack characters who have been favored 
with prayer unless they attack him first (when they 
become cursed anyway). He lets the PCs close to melee 
distance so he can fight for a round or two and spread 
some mummy rot. He exits via the nearest teleporter 
after fighting awhile, then returns to attack again, start 
ing with another spell. If he encounters hasted PCs, he 
tries to dispel the magic. If the PCs begin pursuing him 
through the teleporters, he leaves a wyvern watch or 
blade barrier spell in his wake (see area 19). 

Deitrich (Mummy, Greater): AC -1 (natural 

defenses and ring of protection +3); MV 9; HD 8+3; hp 
40; THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 3d6 (touch); SA mummy 
rot, fear, spells; SD immunities, harmed only by iron 
or +2 or better magical weapons; half damage from 
physical attacks, cannot be turned; SW subject to holy 
water, electricity causes 150% normal damage; SZ M 
(6' tall); ML fanatic (17); Int genius (17); AL LE; XP 
8,000; MM/262. 

Notes: Touch causes a rotting disease that is fatal in 
ldl2 days. While infected, the character cannot benefit 











The Forgotten Temple 


from healing spells, except for regenerate, and recovers 
hit points naturally at 10% of the normal rate. Each 
week the disease goes untreated, the victim loses 2 
points of Charisma permanently. Nonmagical cures 
are not effective against the disease. The mere sight of 
Deitrich causes creatures to save vs. spells at a -1 
penalty or be paralyzed with fright for ld6 rounds. 

Immune to sleep, charm, hold, cold, fire, poison, and 
paralysis. High Wisdom grants an additional +4 sav 
ing throw bonus vs. mental attacks. Holy water 
inflicts ld6+l points of damage from each vial that 
strikes. All damage from physical attacks is reduced 
by half. 

S 19, D 10, C 15,117, W 18, Ch 11. 

Personality: Ruthless, cruel, covetous. 

Spells (9/9/8/7/4/3/1): 1st- curse (x4), detect magic* 
(x4), protection from good-, 2nd- know alignment (x2), 
silence 15' radius (x4), wyvern watch (x3); 3rd- stone 
shape, bestow curse (x2), dispel magic (x3), prayer (x2); 
4th- babble, cause serious wounds (x3); free action*, pro 
tection from lightning*, spell immunity*; 5th- flame strike 
(x2), magic font, slay living; 6th -blade barrier (x2), word 
of recall; 7th- destruction. 

* Precast spells. 

Special Equipment: Ring of protection +3, footman's 
mace +2, scroll of 1 spell ( true seeing), potion of levita 
tion, potion of speed, ring of truth, keys to the doors in 
areas 12.17, and 19. 
a i 

On thdjPrime: The only thing left standing is part 

of 

j| 

10. Master's Quarters 

\ j 

This diamber is similar to area 9. It was once home 
to Deitrich's assistant, who was in charge of the tem 
ple's novices. Ulthut lives here now. 

A big, smoky coal fire constantly burns in the fire 
place. When Ulthut wants to rest, he scatters flaming 
coals on the floor and snoozes until they burn out. 

The room is^rvered in a cloud of black soot. The 
cloud makes the characters gag and covers them with 
filth. Characters who spend more than two rounds in 
here must roll successful saving throws vs. poison or 
be subjected to random coughing fits for the next day. 
In any stressful situation, the character must again 
roll a successful saving throw vs. poison or fall into a 
fit of coughing. A coughing character cannot cast 
spells and suffers a -2 penalty to attacks, initiative, 
saving throws, and ability checks. 

There is a 25% chance that Ulthut is here, enjoying 


a flaming nap, when the PCs arrive. Otherwise, he is 
out wandering the temple. He uses his teleport without 
error ability to visit areas 14 and 7. Then he teleports 
to area 4 to speak with the abishai, visits area 17a to 
torment the roper with a produce flame spell or three, 
and spends about an hour in area 11 before repeating 
the trip again. 

When he learns the temple has visitors, he studies 
the group with detect invisibility and know alignment 
before he does anything. If the group contains a major 
ity of chaotic characters or characters whose align 
ments he cannot read, he attacks to kill. If the majority 
of the group is neutral or lawful, he'll negotiate with 
them, but prefers to toy with them a little first. 

DM Note: Anyone carrying a segment of the Rod is 
lawful. 

When attacking, he uses improved invisibility, tele 
ports to the PCs' location (he might have to teleport 
several times before he finds them) and casts fireball; 
this is ample justification for an invisibility detection 
check on the characters' part. If the PCs are fighting 
Deitrich, Ulthut can find them easily. He tries to pin 
the group between himself and the mummy if he can. 
Once he casts his fireball, Ulthut moves in, hoping his 
fear power will scatter the group. Then he makes 
melee attacks until the party inflicts 20 or more points 
on him. When he accumulates that much damage, he 
teleports away and stays away until he regenerates 
back to full hit points, then renews the attack. If he 
has suffered damage from holy water, he uses his 
polymorph self ability to heal that. (He regains ldl2 hit 
points when returning to his natural form.) Ulthut 
harries the PCs until he wipes them out or until they 
leave the pocket dimension. If the party hunts him 
down while he's regenerating, he tries hiding in the 
secret stairwell (area 19c). Should the PCs discover 
him here, he teleports to one of the cloisters (area 7a). 

If not attacking to kill, Ulthut assumes human form 
(via polymorph self) and becomes visible before return 
ing to the party. He hails the PCs and asks what could 
possibly have brought them here. (He knows full well 
they are seeking the Rod, because they couldn't have 
gotten in here without at least one piece.) As he talks, 
an army of wights shuffles into view behind him. 

This is an advanced illusion Ulthut employs to hold the 
group's attention and test their nerve. If the party is 
willing to negotiate, Ulthut is willing to give them the 
Rod, provided they answer two questions: 

• Do you know what you're dealing with? 

Ulthut wants to know that the party understands 







about the Rod. He'll gladly fill in any gaps in then- 
knowledge. He knows the Rod's history and all its 
powers. He directs them to the library (area 11) if they 
have not vet discovered how to assemble the Rod. He 

J 

is even willing to donate some hair if they need it to 
make glyphs, though he warns the party not to use 
the hair for anything else. 

• What do you plan to do with the Rod? 

Ulthut won't surrender the Rod unless the PCs plan 
to travel to Pandemonium and retrieve the next piece. 
He doesn't care if they go after Miska or not. If the 
group is entertaining any ideas about gathering up 
the segments and protecting them from the Queen of 
Chaos, Ulthut uses his suggestion power to compel 
them to leave the pieces they have here, since the 
queen can't get in here. This is a very reasonable sug 
gestion, and the character targeted suffers a -4 saving 
throw penalty. (If the PCs surrender their segments of 
the Rod, they won't be able to leave the pocket dimen 
sion via the portal.) 

DM Note: The characters can leave the pocket 
dimension via a plane shift spell or similar magic. 

Also, characters who possess three or more pieces of 
the Rod will never agree to give them up, even if 
charmed or similarly compelled; see Book III, page 10 
for details. 


Gate ability works once a round with a 100% 
chance of success; it summons any two lesser or one 
greater baatezu. 

Immune to fire and poison. Half damage from cold 
and gas. Regenerates 2 hit points a round. A vial of 
holy water inflicts ld6+l hit points per vial, and such 
damage cannot be regenerated. 

Personality: Scheming, skeptical. 

Special Equipment: Sixth segment of the Rod of Seven 
Parts, club+5. 


On the Prime: Only a bare stone floor remains, 


11. Library 


The priests in the original temple kept a collection 
of religious texts. Now, the shelves hold what appear 
to be pondous old tomes. Most are blank and here 
merely for show. If the PCs search diligently, they can 
find six volumes describing the Rod of Seven Parts. 
Ulthut penned these while guarding the sixth seg 
ment. The only details Ulthut has omitted arc the 
Rod's side effects and the Queen of Chaos's ability to 
detect its use. 

The room is otherwise similar to areas 9 and 10. 

Alert: If not in his room resting, there is a 25% 
chance that Ulthut is here perusing the library. If not, 
each turn the party spends in this room there is a 
cumulative one in six chance that Ulthut checks in on 
his patrol. See area 10. 

On the Prime: Only a stone floor littered with rub 
ble remains. If the characters poke around in the 
debris, they can find a few bits of rotting parchment 
with a legible w'ord or tw'o, but nothing useful. 


Ulthut (Baatezu, Pit Fiend): AC -5 (-9 with 
improved invisibility ); MV 15, FI 24 (C); HD 13; hp 65; 
THAC0 7 (2 with club+5); #AT 6; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld6/ 
Id6+12/2d6/2d4 (w'ing/wing/claw/ club+5 + Strength 
bonus/bite/tail); SA spell-like abilities at 15th level, 
poison, gating, constriction; SD harmed only by +3 or 
better weapons, immunities, regeneration, cannot be 
turned; SW suffers half damage from silver weapons, 
susceptible to holy w r ater; MR 50%; SZ L (12' tall); ML 
fearless (20); Int genius (18); AL LE; XP 21,000; 

MM/11. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- advanced illusion, 
animate dead, charm person, detect magic, detect invisibil 
ity, fireball, hold person, improved invisibility, polymorph 
self, produce flame, pyrotechnics, suggestion, teleport with 
out error, wall of fire; once a day- symbol of pain; once a 
year- wish; always active- know alignment, infravision 
(90-foot range), fear (20-foot radius, can be sup 
pressed at will). 

A hit with the tail holds and constricts the oppo 
nent for 2d4 points of damage a round until the char 
acter succeeds with a Strength check. Breaking free 
counts as an action for the round. 


The double doors leading in are locked; Deitrich 
has the key. A successful open doors roll, pick locks 
roll, or knock spell opens them: 


The chamber beyond the double doors is octagonal 

i across. A washing basin 


and about a dozen paces 
with two stone tiers occupies most of the center. 
Water pours from the upper tier to the low'er basin 
through many small orifices. To the right of the 
large basin, a much smaller silver one sits atop a 


polished wooden pedestal. To the left is a walk-in 
cabinet. Its doors are open and you can see shelves 


. fa jiiiraii/ 













31 






























































I he Forgotten Temple 


full of folded cloth, candles, and blocks of incense. 
Robes hang from pegs inside the cabinet and a few 
more robes are carelessly hung from the open 
doors. Behind the stone basin are three stained 
glass windows that depict priests being punished 
by the hand of their gods. In one, a priest vainly 
waves a holy symbol, obviously trying to cast a 
spell, while a dragon closes in for the kill. In 
another, a horde of undead are ignoring a priest's 
commands and tearing him to shreds. In the final 
scene, a proverbial bolt from the blue is blasting a 
priestess out of existence. 

On one of his rare trips outside the pocket dimen 
sion, Ulthut captured four cloakers who now guard 
the room. They are hiding among the robes in the 
cabinet and waiting for the PCs to enter the room 
before leaping to the attack. Unless someone keeps a 
constant eye on the cabinet, they ambush the party 
and get a free attack-and then the party must roll for 
surprise. The cloakers fight to the death. 

The priests of the original temple prepared for ser 
vices and rituals here. The windows were intended to 
remind the priests what fate awaited them if their 
deitv found them wanting. 

The large stone basin was intended for ritual wash 
ing. Two small enchanted gates (each about four 
inches across) bring water from and carry it back to 
the Elemental Plane of Water. (The characters could 
escape through these gates if they can polymorph 
themselves. The trip only takes about a turn, though 
getting off the Elemental Plane of Water poses a 
brand new problem for the PCs.) 

The silver basin is an unholy water font; Deitrich 
still creates unholy water in it from time to time. The 
silver basin and its teak pedestal weigh 90 pounds 
and are worth 2,800 gp. (If destroyed, the font yields 
1,100 gp worth of materials.) 

The large cabinet contains altar cloths, candles, 
incense, and vestments. All together, the contents of 
the cabinet weigh 75 pounds and are worth 150 gp. 

There is a secret trap door in the floor at the north 
end of the room. The door is locked (Deitrich has the 
key), but a knock spell or a successful pick locks roll 
opens it if the party finds the door. The compartment 
under the door is about 2 feet deep; it holds six chal 
ices and four more altar cloths. The chalices are worth 
150 gp, 240 gp, 670 gp, 1,500 gp, 5,000 gp, and 10,000 
gp. Each altar cloth is worth 400 gp. 


Cloakers (4): AC 6 (1 with shadow shifting); MV 1, 
Fl 15 (D); HD 6; hp 30 each; THAC0 13; #AT 2+ spe 
cial; Dmg Id6/ld6+special; SA moan; SD shadow 
shifting; SZ L (8' long); ML elite (13); Int high (13); AL 
CN; XP 1,400 each; MM/44. 

Notes: Can leap to the attack (treat as a charge), 
engulfing a victim and biting for ld4 points of dam 
age plus the victim's unadjusted, shieldless armor 
class (damage is automatic after the first round). 
Attack twice a round with the tail, which is AC 1 and 
has 16 hp. Half the damage inflicted on a cloaker 
while it is wrapped around a victim is transferred to 
the victim. 

Can moan once a round at variable intensities. Low 
intensity moan numbs the mind, causing a -2 penalty 
to attack and damage rolls for creatures fighting the 
cloaker. Six consecutive rounds of moaning renders 
victims unable to attack or defend. Medium intensity 
moan creates fear in a 30' radius; save vs. spell or flee 
for 2 rounds. High intensity moan projects a cone of 
nausea and weakness 30' long and 20' wide; victims 
within the cone must save vs. poison or be unable to 
act for ld4+l rounds. Ultra-high intensity moan acts 
as a hold person effect, one target only, range 30', dura 
tion 5 rounds. ( Neutralize, poison removes the effects of 
any moan from a victim.) 

Once a round-shadow shift. Can either obscure 
vision; improving cloaker's AC to 1, or create ld4+2 
false cloakers as a mirror image spell. A light or contin 
ual light spell cast directly on the cloaker blinds it and 
prevents shadow shifting. 

On the Prime: A portion of the large basin and its 
pipes remain. The trap door has been removed, 
revealing the empty compartment beneath. 

Upper Floor 

This level does not exist on the Prime Material 
Plane; it has been torn down. In the pocket dimen 
sion, the level has nice, solid wooden floors. The 
party's footsteps don't sound particularly loud to 
them, but they make quite a racket on the ground 
floor. The temple's residents have mastered the art of 
walking on them quietly; most of them fly. Rogues 
who successfully move silently create no noticeable 
noise, but other characters do, even demihumans 
who normally move quietly. The teleporters up here 
look and work just like the ones on the lower floors. 
The doors on this level are not locked and open easily. 





The Forgotten Temple 


13. Roof 

This area is flat and covered with lead sheeting. 

The adjacent roofs are steeply pitched and very slip 
pery. Characters who venture onto them slip off and 
fall 20 feet to the ground. Rogues and mountaineers 
with climbing equipment can move around on them 
with successful climbing checks. 

14. High Altar Loft 

The priests of the original temple came here to view 
services and ceremonies being performed in area 5. 

From here, it is possible to hear activity in areas 2-6, 
and in areas 8-12 if the doors are not closed. Area 5 is 
in sight 25 feet below, and the tower's peak can be 
seen 175 feet above. There is nothing inside. 

Alert: Each turn the party spends in this room there 
is a cumulative one in six chance that Ulthut arrives. 
See area 10. 

15. Low Altar Loft 

Similar to area 14, the area is 20 feet above area 6. 

Alert: Each turn the party spends here there is a 
cumulative one in six chance that Deitrich checks in 
on his patrol. See area 9. 

16. Bell Towers 

In the original temple, the wind blowing through 
the open windows here would stir the bells and 
chimes into a faint, but ominous clamor. Each area is 
fitted with numerous bell pulls that can be used to 
ring the bells singly or in groups. However, they are 
attached to a system of wheels and gears that ensures 
that the bells toll mournfully no matter how vigor 
ously anyone works the pulls. 

Ulthut has collected a colony of stirges who nest 
among the bells. If any living creature other than 
Ulthut enters this area, the stirges swarm to the 
attack. A wall of fire, produce flame, or fire shield spell 
(with hot flames) anywhere in the chamber keeps 
them at bay. (Ulthut used fire to condition them not to 
attack him.) There are 14 stirges in each tower. 

Stirges (28): AC 8; MV 3, FI 18 (C); HD 1+1; hp 5 
each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg ld3 (bite); SA blood 
drain; SZ 2 (2' wingspan); ML average (8); Int animal 
(1); AL N; XP 175 each; MM/332. 

Notes: Once a stirge scores a hit, it attaches itself and 


automatically drains ld4 points of damage each round 
until killed, which is the only way to remove it. If an 
attack against an attached stirge misses, another attack 
roll is immediately made against the victim's armor class 
(adjustments for shield and Dexterity do not apply) to 
see if the attack hit the victim instead. A stirge flies away 
when it has drained 12 hit points worth of blood. 

Lower Level 

The ceilings on this level are about 18 feet high. 
Unless stated otherwise, it is pitch dark and normal 
vision is useless. Characters wearing shoes, sandals, 
or boots make a lot of noise, as their footfalls echo off 
the stone walls and ceilings. Characters in soft foot 
gear and demihumans who normally move quietly 
don't make an unusual amount of noise. Any loud 
noise (such as fighting or a whole party of noisy char 
acters marching) can be heard throughout the level. 

The teleporters down here look and work just like 
the ones on the upper floors. The doors on this level 
open easily if unlocked. 

Alert: The abishai in area 19 notice a disturbance 
anywhere on the level, and send one of their number 
to alert Ulthut. 

On the Prime: During daylight, this level is fairly 
well lit from sunlight filtering through the sinkholes 
in the upper level. After sunset, the level is as black as 
any dungeon. 

The stonework is shaky. Normal activities, including 
melee, are safe, but flashy spells such as fireballs have a 
50% chance of collapsing the ceiling within their areas 
of effect. Creatures caught in a collapse must roll suc 
cessful saving throws vs. breath weapon or be killed 
and buried under the debris. If the saving throw suc 
ceeds, the victims each suffer 3dl0 points of damage. 

17. Dungeon 

This dingy chamber is mostly empty. The cham 
ber's main door and the doors to the cells are open, 
but can be locked (Deitrich has the keys). The cells 
contain piles of rotten straw that are home to swarms 
of normal but creepy bugs and two sets of manacles 
for restraining prisoners. When the PCs enter, there is 
a 50% chance that 2d4 giant rats from area 21 are root 
ing around in the straw. They vanish in a flash when 
they see the party. 

Alert: Each turn the party spends in this room there 
is a cumulative one in six chance that Ulthut checks in 





Hie Forgotten Temple 


for a look around. See area 10. 

On the Prime: The area looks exactly the same, 
except for a few pinpoints of light coming through 
the ceiling during the day. Bright enough to ruin 
infravision, they are not bright enough to see by. 

17a. Holding Area 

This area originally served as a place to imprison 
groups of creatures or creatures too large to cram into 
area 17. The door is closed and locked. The current 
prisoner is a roper. Ulthut regularly visits the creature 
and torments it with magical fire effects. Usually, the 
roper's magic resistance protects it, but not always. 
When Ulthut is absent, the abishai from area 19 like 
take their turn at tormenting it. 

The mistreatment makes the roper seethe, and it 
wants very badly to hurt something. It lies next to the 
bars separating the area from area 19 and patiently 
waits for something, any thing, to come within 20 feet. 
To the PCs, the roper looks like a lump of stone on the 
floor. A true seeing spell reveals that it is a creature, 
but a detect invisibility spell does not. An ESP spell 
reveals angry thoughts. 

If a PC comes within reach, the roper shoots a 
strand. Its maximum range is 50 feet, but the roper 
would like to make sure its first victim is nice and 
close. Because it is behind bars, the roper has 25% 
cover against return attacks. The party can melee the 
roper without penalty, but only piercing weapons are 
effective through the bars. The bars also hamper the 
roper a bit, and its bite inflicts only 3d4 points of 
damage to characters who have been pulled against 
the bars. The party can avoid the roper simply by 
withdrawing from the area. 

Roper: AC 0; MV 3; HD 12; hp 57; THACO 9; #AT 1; 
Dmg 5d4 (bite); SA Strength drain, paralysis; SD 
immune to lightning, half damage from cold; SW --4 
saving throw penalty vs. fire; MR 80%; SZ L (9' long); 
ML champion (15); Int exceptional (15); AT. CE; XP 
12,000; MM/304. 

Notes: Maintains the same body temperature as its 
surroundings and appears as a piece of irregular 
stonework or a natural stone formation. It imposes a 
-2 penalty on opponents' surprise rolls. 

Can fire up to six strands, one strand a round, at 
ranges of up to 50 feet. A hit from a strand causes a 
save vs. poison or the victim loses half his Strength 
score (round down) after an onset time of ld3 rounds. 
The loss persists for 2d4 turns. The strands are AC 0 


and can be severed by a slashing weapon that inflicts 
at least 6 points of damage in a single hit. A successful 
open doors roll also breaks the strand. 

If the victim cannot get free, he is hauled toward 
the roper's maw at a rate of 10 feet every round. Once 
the victim reaches the maw, bite damage is automatic. 

On the Prime: The bars have been wrenched apart, 
allowing the characters easy access lo the empty area. 

18. Charnel Pit 


This area originally served to collect the gristly 
remains from area 5 for later disposal. Ulthut has 
turned it into a nasty little surprise for intruders. 



Three sets of massive pillars crowd together here 
to support the stonework above. The space 
between the pillars is given over to a shallow pool 
with steps leading down from the east. The bottom 
seems to be filled with scummy water; there is no 
telling how deep it is. The water's surface is only 
about six inches below the pool's edge. 

Abruptly, the top step says, "So what's the pass 
word, buddy?" 

The "steps" are actually two mimics. The mimic 
that spoke is one of the common variety, and its com 
panion is a killer mimic. It attacks at the slightest 
provocation, but waits until the common mimic has 
said its piece. The scummy water is actually a super 
colony of green slime covered with a thin film of 
water. The pit is about 3 feet deep. 

Tire common mimic has orders to lure intruders 
into the pit. It tries to accomplish this feat through 
reverse psychology: 

• "Sorry, no password, no drinkie! And a bath is cer 
tainly out of the question." 

• "Putrid! That proves how much you know. Hey! 
don't try that whitewashing the fence stuff on me! No 
password, no water. Nope! Unless... no, never mind." 

• "What does it do? Sheesh, what a rube. Just forget it. 
You don't know what you missed, so don't sweat it." 

• "1 could let you have just a little sample if you had, 
say a crust of bread? It's been a long time since I had 
any bread." 


• "No bread huh? What do you have? You got any 
thing crunchy?" 

• "You really don't know what this stuff does? No 
kiddin'? Everybody knows about this stuff. Where'd 
you come from anyway, another plane? Let's just say 
this water is all things to all people. It washes away 
your troubles and makes you pure again." 

A detect He spell won't reveal the mimic's carefully 
couched invitations into the pool. 

If anyone bends down to take some water, both 
mimics lash out with their pseudopods. If they hit, 
they try to pull the victim into the pool. The character 
must win or tie an opposed Strength check to avoid 
being dragged into the pool. (To win, the character 
must roll under his Strength score on ld20 and the 
number must be higher than what the mimic rolls. If 
the both the character and the mimic roll the same 
number, it is a tie. If both the character and the mimic 
fail the Strength check, it is a tie.) Both mimics have 
Strength scores of 18 for purposes of the opposed roll; 
if both hit the same character, they have an effective 
Strength score of 20. If other characters try to help the 
victim resist being pulled in, the group uses the highest 
Strength score and adds two points for each extra char 
acter. The opposed check is made immediately when 
the mimics hit; however, if the character avoids being 
pulled in immediately, he can try an open doors roll to 
break free of the mimic in addition to the opposed roll. 
(See the notes after the mimics' statistics for details.) 

Characters pulled into the pool are covered with 
green slime, which cannot be removed until the char 
acter climbs out or all the slime in the pool is killed. 
Once a character gets out of the pool, the slime can be 
removed normally. (See the notes after the green 
slime's statistics for details.) 

If the mimics can't pull anyone into the pool, they start 
hurling globs of green slime instead. The killer mimic 
starts the assault after five minutes, no matter what hap 
pens. (It's tired of hearing the common mimic talk.) 
Hurled globs of slime have a maximum range of 30 feet, 
and all attacks are considered to be at short range. 

Characters who fall through the chute from area 5 
land in the pool, sending up a spray of water and 
green slime. The impact inflicts 2d6 points of damage 
and coats the characters with slime. 

Common Mimic (Mimic): AC 7; MV 3; HD 8; hp 
48; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; SA glue, surprise; SD 
immune to acid and unaffected by molds, slimes, and 






1 he Forgotten Temple 


puddings; SZ L (150 cubic feet); ML champion (15); 

Int average (10); AL N; XP 1,400; MM/250. 

Notes: Imposes a -4 penalty cm opponents' surprise 
rolls. Glue causes opponents to stick to the mimic 
unless they make a successful open, doors roll (one try.: 
per character) or until alcohol is app|fe*|i(t$Jas^ ;> 
rounds to work) or until the mimic dies (takeso M 
rounds to work). Stuck opponents cannot cast spells 
and must use small weapons or non-lethal combat. 

Killer Mimic (Mimic): AC 7; MV 3; HD 10; hp 60; 
THAC0 11; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; SA glue, surprise; SD 
immune to acid and unaffected by molds, slimes, and 
puddings; SZ L (200 cubic feet); ML elite (13); Int semi 
(3); AL N; XP 3,000; MM/250. 


porter in one of the temple'i^^^^0&^|paijives in 
area 19a or 19b; there is a 50% chance &k either, deter 
mined randomly room's center has 14 

teleporters that^l^cr^nires from here to the other 
;|eteporter& Oh the map, each teleporter is labeled 
vHmW-aestination's area number. (The teleporters 
themselves have no labels.) Areas 4 and 20 have two 
teleporters each; an additional letter distinguishes 
one from the other. 

The priests at the original temple devised this sys 
tem to discourage unauthorized use of the tele 
porters. Guards and priests kept watch over area 19a 
and 19b, capturing trespassers. Five abishai do the 
same job now. 


Notes: Imposes a -4 penalty on opponents' surprise 
rolls. Glue causes opponents to stick to the mimic 
unless they make a successful open doors roll (one try 
per character) or until alcohol is applied (takes 3 
rounds to work) or until the mimic dies (takes 5 
rounds to work). Stuck opponents cannot cast spells 
and must use small weapons or non-lethal combat. 

Green Slime (Ooze/Slime/Jelly): AC 9; MV 0; HD 2 
(individual patch) or 20 (mass); hp 9 (patch) or 90 (mass); 
THAC0 n/a; #AT 0; Dmg nil; SA turn to slime; SD 
immune to all attacks except fire and cold; SW killed by 
cure disease ; SZ S (2'-4') or H (10'xl0'x2'); ML average (10); 
Int non (0); AL N; XP 65 (patch) 650 (mass); MM/278. 

Notes: Contact with green slime dissolves a man- 
sized creature in ld4 rounds. Dissolves one inch of 
wood per hour and dissolves metal more rapidly. 

Plate mail is dissolved in three rounds. If a glob of 
green slime was thrown, add one round to the vic 
tim's survival time. 

Normal fire kills green slime, but inflicts ld4 points 
of damage on the afflicted creature. Magical fire or 
cold also kills green slime, but inflicts damage on the 
victim. Green slime can be scraped off with a sharp 
implement, inflicting ld4 points of damage on the 
victim and destroying the implement. A cure disease 
spell kills one 2-hit-die patch or reduces the mass's 
total hit dice by 2 (reducing its hit point total by 9). 


Green Abishai (Baatezu, Abashai, Green) (5): AC 

3; MV 9, FI 12 (C); HD 5+2; hp 24 each; THAC0 15; 
#AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld4+l (claw/claw/tail); SA 
spell-like abilities, gating, poison; SD harmed only by 
+1 or better weapons, immunities, regeneration; SW 
suffers full damage from silver weapons, susceptible 
to holy water; MR 30%; SZ L (7' tall); ML average (10); 
Int average (9); AL LE; XP 8,000 each; MM/31. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will -advanced illusion, 
animate dead, change self, charm person, produce flame, 
pyrotechnics, scare, suggestion, teleport without error; 
always active -know alignment, infravision (90-foot 
range). Regenerates 1 hit point a round. 

A hit with the tail requires a successful save vs. poi 
son or the victim dies (onset time is one round). 

Dive attacks are +2 to hit and cause double dam 
age, but no tail attack is possible. 

Gate ability works once a day with either a 60% 
chance of summoning 2-12 lemures or a 30% chance 
of summoning 1-3 abishai. 

Immune to fire and poison. Half damage from cold 
and gas. A vial of holy water inflicts 2d4 hit points 
per vial, and such damage cannot be regenerated. 

On the Prime: The teleporters have been removed. 
During the day, the ghouls and ghasts that roam the 
grounds lurk down here. 


On the Prime: The area is filled with rubble. The 
characters still can see the pit, which has no steps. 
Light filters through the hole leading up to area 5. 

19. Transport Area 

This chamber is the heart of the temple's teleporter 
system. As explained previously, anyone using a tele- 


19a-b. Reception Chambers 

These areas have bare floors and three plain, stone 
walls. The fourth wall is made from thick steel bars 
and has a locked door. Deitrich has the only key. 
When a teleporting character arrives in one of the 
rooms, there is an electric crackle just before his 
appearance. The crackle alerts the abishai, who ready 


fhe Forgotten Temple 


themselves. The character arrives with his back to the 
bars, giving the abishai a free rear attack with their 
claws and tails. Characters inside the chambers can 
counterattack only with spells, missiles, and thrusting 
weapons that have at least as much reach as a spear. 
The abishai have 50% cover against missile fire. 
Remember that the area is entirely dark. 

Characters can escape with a knock spell, by forcing 
the door open (which requires a successful open 
doors roll vs. a locked portal), by picking the lock, or 
by bending the bars. The abishai get a +4 bonus to hit 
characters trying to pick the lock or bend the bars. Of 
course, characters can use Deitrich's key if they have 
it, but the abishai get the +4 attack bonus while the 
characters fiddle with the lock. 

If Deitrich blocks a chamber with a blade barrier 
spell, the effect fills one chamber. A character teleport 
ing into that chamber is allowed a saving throw vs. 
spells when he arrives. If the saving throw succeeds, 
the PC suffers no damage initially and escapes 
unscathed if he exits the chamber immediately. Other 
wise, the character suffers 8d8 points of damage each 
round he remains in the chamber. 

DM Note: Only two or three characters can use a 
teleporter at once, due to its weight limit. Do not 
reveal the blade barrier effect until all the characters 
have decided whether to teleport or not. 

On the Prime: The bars have been wrenched apart. 
The ghouls use the areas to store the odd bone. 

19c. The Hidden Stair 

If necessary, the staircase becomes Ulthut's hiding 
place. The secret door can be located on a standard roll. 

On the Prime: The secret door is destroyed, and the 
characters can see and use the staircase. 

20. Burial Crypts 

These areas are given over to tombs for those the 
priests deemed worthy of the honor of burial here. 
Each square on the map (except for the ones adjacent 
to the teleporters) bears a black marble slab that shifts 
and makes a hollow thump if a character walks on it. 
The PCs can pry up a slab with a successful open 
doors roll. Underneath, they find a hollow rectangle 
about 4 feet long, 2. feet wide, and 2 feet deep. Origi 
nally bodies were laid inside in a semi-fetal position. 
All the spaces are empty now. 


Alert: Each turn the party spends in this room there 
is a cumulative one in six chance that Deitrich visits. 
See area 9. 

On the Prime: The ghouls have ripped open and 
smashed all the slabs. The spaces below them are 
empty, except for a shard of bone or a scrap of cloth 
here and there. 

21. Rat Warrens 

Except where the tunnels pass through the temple's 
foundations, these areas are dug though earth. The 
passages are about 2 feet wide and high; the walls are 
rough and crooked. Man-sized and small creatures 
can crawl through the tunnels, but they are limited to 
small weapons or unarmed combat. They also suffer a 
-2 attack penalty and a -6 initiative penalty. Tiny 
creatures suffer no penalties, and large, huge, and 
gargantuan creatures cannot enter the tunnels at all. 

Giant Rats (Rat) (20): AC 7; MV 12, Sw 6); HD 1/2; 
hp 2 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld3 (bite); SA dis 
ease; SZ T (2' long); ML unsteady (5); Int semi (2); AL 
N (E); XP 15 each; MM/300. 

Notes: Bite causes a 5% chance (cumulative) of 
inflicting a debilitating disease unless the opponent 
successfully saves vs. poison. Check once for each 
character when the fight is over. If the save fails, the 
disease takes effect in ld6 turns. The victim loses 1 
point of Strength (or 10% of exceptional Strength) 
immediately and one additional point each hour until 
Strength is reduced to 2. At that point, the character is 
helpless and cannot move, cast spells, or fight. Recover 
requires ld3 weeks of rest. A cure disease spell applied 
before the disease takes effect prevents Strength loss. 

Afterward 

If Jory saw the PCs entering the pocket dimension, 
he is waiting for them when they return. As noted 
earlier, he has a group of six spyder-fiends at his back 
if he saw that the party in possession of a Rod seg 
ment. Even if he didn't notice the Rod, he surmises 
that whatever the PCs did inside the pocket dimen 
sion must have something to do with it, and he 
attacks on his own when they emerge. He prepares 
himself for battle by casting a mirror image on himself. 

The following description assumes the PCs were 
successful and acquired the sixth segment. If necessary, 
modify it to fit the events of your party's adventure. 






Triumphant and victorious, you are still quite glad 
to be leaving this home for fiends. As you pass 
through the gate, you cannot help but wonder 
what hurdles you will have to leap to gain the sev 
enth and final segment. 

A feeling of relief washes over you as you feel 
your feet tread on an earth without undead or 
fiends surrounding you. Looking back, you can see 
the temple is still in ruins, and everything seems 
just the same as you left it. Perhaps, you think, there 
will be some time for rest and even a bit recreation. 

It is just then the world goes black. 

Jory has opened his attack with a darkness spell. 

Roll immediately for surprise. Jory's plan of battle is 
to first use entangle, and to order his spydcr-fiends (if 
any) to attack. Thereafter, he makes melee attacks on 
anyone not trapped. 

If Jory or any of his minions notice which character 
has the Rod, he tries to whisk that character away to 
the Steaming Fen as described in the Chaos Gates 
adventure (see Book III). 

Jory's statistics can be found on page 23. 

Kakkuu (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Kakkuu) (4): AC 

2; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 4; hp 20 each; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Ding 2d4; SA spell-like abilities at 4th level, 
poison, webs; SD webs, immunities, concealment; SVV 
susceptible to holy water; MR 15%; SZ M (5' long); 

ML steady (11); lnt semi (3); AL CE; XP 5,000 each; See 
Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- darkness 15' 
radius, teleport without error; always active- infravision 
(60-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison, he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The opponent can 
attempt a Constitution check ever}' 2d4 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the opponent suf 
fers a -2 penalty to Dexterity for 2d4 rounds. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a save 
vs. breath weapon, or wrap helpless or unconscious 
creatures. Can use a web ability while making a physi 
cal attack but not while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Concealment makes a kakkuu 80% undetectable 
when motionless and in cover. 


Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

Spithriku (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Spithriku) (2): 

AC 0; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 7+1; hp 36 each; THACO 
13; #AT 1; Dmg 2d6 (bite); SA spell-like abilities at 7th 
level, poison, webs, hiding; SD webs, harmed only by 
+1 or better weapons, immunities, invisibility' detection 
(30-foot radius); SW suffer full damage from iron or sil 
ver weapons, susceptible to holy water; MR 35%; SZ M 
(6' long); ML elite (14); lnt average (10); AL CE; XP 
12,000 each; See Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- darkness 15' 
radius, teleport without error, cause fear (in a single crea 
ture by touch); three times a day- telekinesis; always 
active- infravision (90-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison, he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The victim can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d4 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the victim suffers a 
-2 penalty to Dexterity for 2d4 rounds. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a 
save vs. breath weapon, or wrap helpless or uncon 
scious creatures; every three rounds- entangle effect 
in a 10'x30'x20' cone (range 0), fire a lightweight ball 
that extends the range of the fear ability' to 30 yards. 
Can use a web ability while attacking physically but 
not W'hile using a spell-like ability. 

80% undetectable w'hen motionless and in cover. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
w'ebs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Invisibility detection is alw'ays active and is non 
magical; cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and 
effects that block divination magic. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

froubleshooti ng 

If the party leaves the pocket dimension without 
getting the Rod, Ulthut busies himself gating in rein 
forcements from Baator. Within an hour, he collects a 
group of abishai-three of each type (see the 
MOiVSTKOi/s Maniml(tm) Tome for statistics). He uses 
them to replace any abishai the party has killed. If the 
party killed Deitrich, the mummy is back again when 
the party returns (though he w'on't have his magical 
items if the party took them). The mummy cannot be 
destroyed while the pocket dimension exists. 


The final segment of the Rod of Seven Parts is located 
in the very citadel where Miska is imprisoned. Agents 
of the Queen of Chaos located the seventh segment 
some time ago and carried it to Pandemonium, where 
Miska's prison has remained for centuries. They 
passed the segment through the cocoon of law sur 
rounding the citadel to Miska. 

Miska can handle the Rod freely without fear of side 
effects because it is infused with his essence. Miska 
patiently waits for some band of fools, such as the PCs, 
to come along and bring him the rest of the Rod. 

When they passed the seventh segment to Miska, 
the queen's servants created a rent in the cocoon of 
law that allows creatures to enter, but allows only 
lawful creatures to leave again. (Any PC can leave if 
he is in the company or Arquestan or the Rod bearer.) 
Dozens of spyder-fiends and a few other creatures 
have entered the citadel to help guard the Rod. Still, 
the vast citadel, with its miles of corridors and cham 
bers, is mostly empty-more like a tomb than a 
prison. 

.Seard !im> for the Citadel 

Initially, the sixth segment of the Rod points to a 
gate that connects the Prime Material Plane with Pan 
demonium. At least 500 miles separate the gate to the 
pocket dimension of the previous adventure from the 
gate that leads to Pandemonium. Fortunately, the PCs 
don't have to make the trip themselves. Arquestan 
makes himself known to the PCs (if he hasn't 
already), and offers to take them to the very walls of 
the citadel in his wind chariot. See the Mysterious 
Stranger (Book III, page 26). 

If the PCs don't have the sixth piece of the Rod, it is 
very difficult for them to embark on this adventure. 
They would need to locate the gate to Pandemonium 
on their own, then travel by themselves through the 
vast depths of Pandemonium, with its maddening 
winds, seeking the citadel; the journey itself could 
take years. All the while, the queen's spyder-fiends 
would be nipping at the party's heels. 

.At >< > i. it I ! n< Jeffioni u m 

Pandemonium is a plane of endless tunnels filled 
with roaring winds that can drive characters mad. 
Fortunately for the PCs, they do not have to travel 
unprotected. Arquestan's wind chariot can whisk them 
along, shielding them from the plane's detrimental 
effects. 


Should the characters venture into Pandemonium 
without Arquestan's protection, they face the plane's 
full effects, which are as follows: 

• Winds: The plane's howling winds require charac 
ters to attempt saving throws vs. paralyzation each 
turn. Characters who succeed suffer no ill effects; 
those who fail become irritable and prone to snap 
ping at their companions. They suffer a -1 penalty to 
their Intelligence and Wisdom scores while exposed 
to the wind. Both effects disappear when the charac 
ters reach shelter, but only for as long as they remain 
sheltered. 

Characters who fail their saving throws multiple 
times (after prolonged exposure to the winds) suffer 
an additional -1 penalty to Intelligence and Wisdom 
and a -1 penalty to initiative for each failed save. 
Characters reduced to an Intelligence or Wisdom 
score of 1 or to an initiative penalty of -10 stop, cover 
their ears, and mutter to themselves, becoming 
utterly helpless until removed to shelter. 

The winds also make spellcasting difficult. Any 
time a character tries to cast a spell that requires a 
material component, he must pass a Dexterity check 
or the component is torn from his grasp and the spell 
is ruined. Material components that are not con 
sumed in the casting, such as holy symbols, are not 
lost: 

• Priests: Maintaining a connection with a deity while 
visiting Pandemonium is difficult, especially for 
priests that worship lawful gods or goddesses. (Cler 
ics are unaffected.) Priests suffer a temporary loss of 
spellcasting ability, reducing both the number of 
spells available and their effect (duration, damage, 
etc). Once the character leaves Pandemonium, his 
abilities return to normal. 

The exact penalty depends on the alignment (and 
thus the home plane) of the character's deity, and 
specifically how much that alignment varies from 
that of Pandemonium. For the purposes of this 
adventure, assume Pandemonium is chaotic neutral 
in alignment. Priests lose one level of spellcasting 
ability for each grade of alignment (on both the law- 
chaos and the good-evil spectrum) that separates his 
deity from Pandemonium. For example, a tenth level 
worshipper of a lawful good deity is reduced to sev 
enth level for the purposes of spellcasting. 

A priest character who worships a lawful deity and 
is the bearer of at least one segment of the Rod is 
immune to this effect. 






rhe Citadel of Chaos 


• Magic: Even if a spell's material component isn't 
lost in the wind, magic works differently in Pandemo 
nium, as follows: 

Alteration: Spells that create or reshape matter have 
reduced durations. Treat the caster as one level lower 
than he actually is when determining how long the 
spell lasts. 

Conjuration/Summoning: The spells find familiar, 
limited wish, and wish fail. 

Divination: When a character casts the spell, the 
DM secretly rolls a saving throw vs. paralyzation. If 
the roll fails, the spell reveals false or misleading 
information. 

Necromancy: Spells that create life force, such as 
reincarnate, fail unless the caster passes an Intelligence 
check. 

Wild Magic: The inherent chaos of Pandemonium 
enhances wild magic. A wild mage gains one extra 
spell level, and whenever casting a spell he rolls 
twice for level variation applies the more extreme of 
the results. A wild surge occurs if either roll indicates 
one. 

In addition, spells that create or manipulate fire are 
ineffective. Everything from burning hands to meteor 
swarm is nullified. Also, spells that depend on sound 
{power words, audible glamer, suggestion, etc.) are likely 
to fail simply because of the roaring winds. Finally, 
because Pandemonium is an outer plane, all forms of 
ethereal travel are nullified. 

Magical items: Any item that creates an effect that 
similar to a spell listed above is affected in the same 
way. For example, a wand of fire is useless on Pande 
monium. Enchanted weapons and armor lose two 
pluses on Pandemonium. A long sioord +3 or a shield 
+3 becomes only +1 on Pandemonium. Bracers of 
defense AC 2 become AC 4, and a ring of protection +1 
ceases to function at all. Items return to normal when 
brought back to the Prime Material Plane. The Rod of 
Seven Parts is unaffected. 

The Planescape(tm) and Planes of Chaos boxed sets 
have more detailed information on Pandemonium. 

The DM is free to use that material instead of what is 
presented here. 

About; the CiLadcl 

The citadel stands atop a tall spire of white rock in 
a vast tunnel. The spire is 7 miles high and the tunnel 
is at least twice that wide, about 14 miles. A shallow, 
filthy stream about 200 yards across meanders along 
the bottom. This is part of the river Styx, a body of 


foul water that connects several planes of evil. Any 
one who touches or tastes the water must roll a sav 
ing throw vs. spell. Failure brings total amnesia, 
including class, alignment, and spells. The character 
retains his hit points, THACO and saving throws, but 
forgets all proficiencies, command words, spells, spe 
cial class abilities, and other basic information such as 
the names of companions. All attacks suffer the 
appropriate nonproficiency penalty for the charac 
ter's class. If the save succeeds, the victim only for 
gets the events of the past day. A heal or limited zvish 
spell restores basic memories such as class abilities 
and the names of close associates; a wish fully restores 
memories. 

The citadel itself is a great pile of black, white, blue, 
and red stone. Outwardly, it resembles a normal cas 
tle, but it is built on a gargantuan scale. The edifice is 
a little more than a half mile wide, with outer walls 
more than 100 feet thick. Its towers are solid stone 
riddled with twisting passages and irregular cham 
bers. The walls and most of the towers have battle 
ments, but the main towers have domed tops. 

Tracking the Rod 

Miska keeps the Rod segment in tower E, which is 
indicated by the green arrow on the player's map. 
When the PCs are outside tower E, the sixth segment 
of the Rod indicates a point high up in the structure, 
somewhere within the dome. 

The segment continues to indicate that point until 
the PCs enter the tower and ascend toward Miska's 
apartments, when they come within minimum range. 

Miska has an empathic connection with the Rod. He 
knows the instant the party disturbs the seventh seg 
ment. He can also track the segments that the party 
has, and he always knows the party's approximate 
location within the citadel. However, Miska bides his 
time and delays his appearance until the party has all 
seven segments. 

Friendly Advice 

Before Arquestan and the PCs fly off to Pandemo 
nium, Qadeej pays them a visit. The boxed text below 
assumes that the party is already familiar with 
Arquestan but has not yet met Qadeej. If the situation 
is different for your group, refer to the Mysterious 
Stranger adventure in Book III and modify the text 
accordingly. 






1 he Citadel of Chaos 


The enigmatic Arquestan pauses. "I have a gift for 
you that may help you succeed." Without an expla 
nation he stops and begins spreading a black cloth 
on the ground. It appears that there is something 
wrapped within the fine fabric. 

Without warning, the constellation of soft lights 
that accompanies Arquestan becomes agitated. 
They dash to their master, forming a tight ball next 
to him. The wind duke scans his surroundings, 
looking puzzled but not alarmed. You don't notice 
anything amiss. 

A fuzzy spot appears in the air before your eyes; 
it's magic of some kind. The spot turns into a 
spark, and then into a statuesque figure who bears 
the unmistakable mark of Arquestan's race. The 
newcomer seems a bit shorter than Arquestan. His 
bearing is just as proud, but he has a slight stoop. 
His black hair is shot with gray and there are 
worry lines around his bright eyes, but nothing 
else mars his ebony skin. The newcomer holds a 
staff in his left hand, and his only clothing is a 
royal blue sash wrapped in layers around his loins 
and tied with an elaborate knot. 

Arquestan greets the newcomer with a solemn 
bow. "Thy presence is unexpected, Bledrudeam," 
he says. "To what do we owe this honor, and 
whom do I have the pleasure of addressing?" 

The newcomer seems annoyed. "Long have I 
watched thee, Arquestan," he replies. "Just as thou 
hast watched these mortals, I have watched thee. 
Know me, then, as Qadeej." Arquestan seems a bit 
stunned when he hears the name. "I have come to 
tell thee that thy role in this affair must come to an 
end, Arquestan. Accompany the mortals into Pan 
demonium if thou must; only an outcast such as 
thee could stand the disorder in such a place. But 
do not set foot in the citadel. You risk ail that we 
have fought for." 

Tire PCs can put a word in at this point, if they wish. 
Play out the rest of the encounter using the informa 
tion listed below. 

DM Note: Any character wearing a ring of truth is 
completely unable to hear Qadeej's voice, thanks to 
the wind duke's ring of mind shielding. (If the PCs 
defeated Deitrich, the mummy priest in the previous 
adventure, they probably recovered the mummy's 
ring of truth.) In any case, Qadeej's ring of mind shield 
ing keeps the PCs from magically detecting his many 
lies and deceptions during this encounter. 


• Qadeej says Arquestan must not enter the Citadel of 
Chaos, where the final piece of the Rod lies, because 
Miska would surely detect him and prevent the party 
from recovering the segment. Wren Arquestan 
objects, Qadeej lays it on thick. "Think of the conse 
quences of failure, my son. Would thou put these mortals, 
their world, your entire race, and uncounted number of 
other realms at risk for one chance at glory? Long have the 
wendeam searched for the Rod, even though the elders have 
forbidden it. Surely, the defeat of Chaos and the triumph of 
Law is more important than anything?" 

Miska has no special ability to detect Arquestan or 
any other vaati. Qadeej wants the party to enter the 
citadel and fail so that Miska will be released and the 
war between Law and Chaos will begin anew. Finally, 
he wants Arquestan by his side so that he can recover 
the Rod more easily after Miska restores himself with 
it. Qadeej anticipates that he will need elite soldiers 
like Arquestan once the war has begun anew. 

Arquestan reluctantly accepts Qadeej's advice. As it 
happens, he will probably be of more use to the party 
outside the citadel than within it (see Arrival, below). 

• Either Qadeej or Arquestan can explain that most 
vaati believe the present stalemate between Law and 
Chaos is preferable to the dangers of reopening the 
war against Chaos. True, the armies of Law have not 
rvon, but neither can Chaos overwhelm the multi- 
verse. The present situation is far better than what 
might happen if the armies of Law lost a new war. 

Even the wendeam, the outcasts who travel the 
planes opposing the Queen of Chaos and her spyder- 
fiends, have before now never actively sought to 
assemble the Rod and slay Miska. 

• Arquestan explains that quite a few vaati believe 
that any group of mortals who can assemble the Rod 
and destroy Miska should be aided and encouraged. 

• Qadeej says that starting a new war might be a bad 
idea, or it might not, but the best way to prevent Miska 
from getting free is to kill him, and this feat can be 
accomplished only after the Rod has been made whole. 

Qadeej actually thinks restarting the war is a good 
idea, but he doesn't admit it now. 

• Qadeej insists that the party assemble the Rod as 
quickly as possible. If the segments the party has do 
not already have the correct glyphs (sec Book III), 
Qadeej scribes them for the group. He assures them 
that seventh has already been prepared. 




The Citadel of Chaos 


If this raises alarms in the PCs, Qadeej explains that The cocoon of law imposes its own limitations, 

the queen, too, wants to see the Rod -assembled so that which apply even in area 2: 

it can be destroyed forever. All thaliegments must be Alteration spells that allow special forms of travel, 

destroyed at once, and the only vi||y to do that is to such as blink, dimension door, fly, phase door and 
teleport 

assemble the Rod first. fa cannot be used to transport anyone or anything out of 

Qadeej's answer is a completajpjrication. The an enclosed space. They allow movement into spaces, 

queen wants the Rod assembler^) Miska can be and they can function within a space. In this case "in" 

restored to full health and escape the cocoon of law, is away from the cocoon and toward the citadel's 
cen- 

and Qadeej knows it. Once he has convinced the PCs ter. For example, the largest "space" in the citadel 
is 

that assembling the Rod is thebest thing to do, Qadeej the courtyard and the air above it, which is 
enclosed 
vanishes back to Aaqa. by walls on the bottom and sides and the cocoon 

overhead. A spyder-fiend can teleport from the top of 
• Arquegtan's gift to the PCs is an ancient bastard one of the towers to the courtyard below or to the 
top 

sword 1!||i was forged in the fires of Aaqa. It saw use of another tower, but it could not teleport outside 
the 

in the orij ^gp l war against Chaos and was preserved cocoon. It could teleport into one of the towers, 
but it 

after the bfljtle of Pesh. Vaati who would like to see could not teleport back out to the courtyard or a 

the party Hay Miska sent it. The sword can smite tower top because that would involve going out. 

Chaos evgn on Pandemonium, where the party's own Conjuration/Summoning: These spells are ineffec- 

weapons might be dulled. tive inside the cocoon. This includes the tanar'ri gate 

In any case, Arquestan selects one PC, probably a ability, 

lawful warrior (a paladin would be his first choice) to Wild Magic: These spells are completely nullified 

carry the sword. The character can refuse the sword if inside the cocoon. 

he wishes and Arquestan will not be offended. Spells that can alter or destroy the citadel's 

The sword's name is Zephrus; it is +5 on the Prime stonework are ineffective; these include disintegrate, 

Material plane, and +4 anywhere else in the multi- transmute rock to mud, passwall, and stone shape. 
The 

verse. It is Lawful Neutral, with an Intelligence of 13 spell does function if directed at stone that is not 
part 

and an ego of 24 (for a personality score of 37). It has of the citadel (for example, a character's wall of 
stone). 

a special purpose to overthrow Chaos, granting its All other forms of magic work normally, including 

wielder a +2 bonus on all saving throws vs. attacks enchanted weapons and armor. The Rod of Seven 
Parts 

from chaotic creatures and reducing damage from is unaffected, 

such attacks by -2 per die (minimum one point per 

die). Once a month, it has the special ability to change About the Maps 
itself into any lawful creature who has grasped it dur- ' 

ing the past month. The citadel is far too large to show in detail, even 

Characters with personality scores of 37 or higher on the poster maps included in this product. Explor- 

(see DMG, Appendix 3) can control the sword and ing the place, which is mostly empty, would be 

learn its powers; those with lesser scores learn nothing. tedious except for the occasional ambush by 
spyder- 

fiends, and even those would get boring and frustrat- 

Ma^ieal Conditions Within the Citadel in g after a while. 

Map El and the front of Card 4 show an overview 
The cocoon of law surrounding the citadel negates of the castle's exterior. Mapsheet E also includes sev- 

all special conditions that normally prevail on Pande- eral geomorphs that can represent various 
locations 

monium, with three exceptions. First, ethereal travel where encounters occur, and a detailed map of 

is still impossible. Second, the rent in the cocoon near Miska's apartments (Map E2). 
area 2 allows the winds of Pandemonium to sweep in Because thepfcart!.bijitsttedilutions on the Pande- 

and affect those nearby. Characters must attempt sav- monium, the maps have no compass rose. The 
text for 

ing throws against madness (see the About Pande- , fhisadventure has been written to take the lack of 
monium section). Finally, priest characters still suffer direction into account. To enhance the alien nature 
of 
penalties to spellcasting. Note that the Queen of the setting, avoid referring to compass directions 

Chaos's chaos gate ability is ineffective both in Pande- while running the adventure, 

monium and within the citadel. 






Getting Around 

The DM map shows the major passages and stair 
cases in the citadel. (There are many more than what 
is shown on the map, particularly in areas A-F.) The 
passages are coded to show on which level in the 
structure each passage can be found. For purposes of 
this adventure, the citadel has only three levels: the 
courtyard level (solid green), the battlement level, 
(dashed black), and the bridge level (dotted red). The 
black circles are spiral staircases that run from the 
courtyard level all the way to the tops of the towers, 
unless otherwise noted. 

The PCs can freely move around atop the outer 
walls and their towers, though the spyder-fiends will 
have something to say about that. 

To get to Miska's apartments and recover the Rod, 
the PCs must enter one of the towers marked D, pro 
ceed via the staircase to the bridge level, and work 


wind walk power to zip around the citadel, as they 
should. The power, however, affects only the Rod 
bearer and two others. Wind-walking characters are 
neither invisible nor immune to attack. Any creature 
with 4+1 or more hit dice can harm wind-walking 
characters. A wind walking character's armor class 
is not changed, and he is still solid enough to be 
blocked by any barrier that would block his normal 
body. A wind-walking character cannot cast spells or 
use magical items while in vaporous form, but he 
can make unarmed attacks and use magical 
weapons. A normal wind walk spell is subject to the 
restrictions for leaving areas within the citadel 
through magical movement (see Magical Condi 
tions Within the Citadel), but the Rod's wind walk 
power is not. 

Encounters 


their way into tower E. Beyond that, it is not impor 
tant exactly where they go. Smart parties will fly 
directly to the center of the citadel (if they can) and 
avoid taxteg their riescWErees tiae minor encounters in 
theotherareas. T-. 

,,(c)M Note: Your players are apt to'tife the RoMHr 


Many of the encounters have no fixed locations; the 
party simply stumbles across things (and vice versa) 
while exploring the citadel. Each encounter begins 
with an explanation of its purpose, the general loca 
tion where it can happen, and which eeomorph (if 
|f||sany) to use. 








Arrival 

This encounter has no fixed location; it gives the 
PCs their first glimpse of the citadel. 

Arquestan's wind chariot certainly is an efficient 
mode of travel, and it's much more comfortable 
and safe than some of you thought it would be. 
Though a great cyclone keeps it aloft, you don't 
feel any breeze except the one created by the sheer 
speed of your movement. At the beginning of your 
journey, the landscape below passed by at an 
amazing rate. Since then, the terrain has been a lit 
tle more than strange. 

You passed through the silvery void of the Astral 
Plane, where there was no scenery at all, and then 
through a pool of shimmering color that you saw 
for only an instant. Now, you are making your way 
through an endless series of dark, damp tunnels. 
Though you are protected by some kind of shield 
around the chariot, you sense that it is an unpleas 
ant environment outside. Occasionally, a nasty odor 
drifts in from nowhere, and there are frequent 
thumps and rattles as monstrous gusts of wind that 
buffet your craft, it seems to you that the air would 
have to blow very hard to jar the chariot of a duke 
of the wind. The thought isn't comforting. 

The tunnel you are in right now seems as vast as 
any river valley on your world; there even seems 
to be some kind of river meandering along the bot 
tom, far below. But instead of gentle hills rising up 
form the vale to a blue sky, only circular walls of 
damp stone close overhead, so that bare rock 
hangs where clouds should be floating. 

Ahead, you see a tremendous promontory soar 
ing from the tunnel's soggy depths and rising 
halfway to the lofty roof. A fortress like no other 
you have seen caps the outcropping. You seem to 
be fairly close already, but as the minutes pass by 
you realize that the promontory and fortress are 
still a vast distance away. Their sheer size fooled 
your senses. The peak must be at least seven miles 
high, and the fortress that crowns it is a half mile 
on a side if it's an inch. 

"There, guarded by Miska himself, you shall 
find the seventh segment of the Rod" Arquestan 
announces. 

The chariot continues to approach. You begin to 
notice a haze, a filmy mist in the air, that sheathes 
the spire and the fortress like a huge blanket. 


except that it floats several hundred feet above the 
fortress's highest tower. "That is the cocoon of 
law," says Arquestan. "It is the barrier that has 
held Miska in durance for aeons." 

Arquestan circles the spire slowly, and you have 
the chance to peer over the huge structure. "Hold! 

I like this not!" Your gaze follows his pointing fin 
ger to a spot near one of the outer towers. There, 
you see a part of the cocoon fluttering in the breeze 
like a sheet of tattered linen in a storm. Arquestan 
appears troubled. As he completes the circle, he 
asks, "What does the Rod tell you? Where does the 
final piece lie?" 

The tear in the barrier near area 2 runs from the 
peak all the way down to the tunnel floor. It is about 
15 feet wide. As noted earlier, only lawful creatures or 
creatures touching the Rod bearer can exit through the 
tear, though anything can enter through it. The 
cocoon is otherwise intact; the PCs cannot pass 
through it unless they have the Rod or are in Arques 
tan's company. Arquestan has a number of observa 
tions to make: 

• "No force except Law could have torn the barrier. 
Perhaps the queen's agents tore it asunder when they 
passed their segment of the Rod through it." 

This is all Arquestan knows about the tear. 

• "It seems likely that Miska is still within the citadel; 
otherwise, the armies of Chaos would already be on 
the march. Perhaps Miska is unable to escape through 
the tear." 

• It would seem to be prudent for Arquestan to wait 
outside while the party enters the citadel. The wind 
duke can try to prevent anything from escaping or 
entering while the group is inside. It remains for the 
PCs to decide how they should enter. Arquestan 
planned to take them through the barrier and land 
them on the battlements, but perhaps it would be bet 
ter to enter through the tear and avoid damaging the 
barrier further. 

In any case, it is up to the PCs to decide how to pro 
ceed. Arquestan's original plan was to land the PCs on 
the tow'er marked la and then withdraw. He intended 
to remain inside the barrier and outside the castle, 
where he might distract Miska and his bodyguards. 







The Citadel of Chaos 


Outer Works 

These areas include the walls, outer towers, and 
courtyards. They are largely deserted. While the PCs 
are exploring these areas, they catch an occasional 
glimpse of Arquestan riding his wind chariot. Unless 
the plan has changed, he stays mostly near area 2, but 
occasionally makes a circuit around the entire citadel. 
All the open areas are faintly lit by a purple glow 
from the cocoon of law. Inside the passages it is 
blacker than a coal mine. 

1. Outer Towers 

These buildings are about 400 feet high; they con 
tain passages that lead out to the battlements atop the 
walls, plus spiral staircases that lead down to the 
courtyards and up to their flat tops, but otherwise 
they are completely solid. 

The towers are totally deserted. 

la. Landing Tower 

Arquestan would like to land the party here, but 
he'll agree to stop at any outer tower or any point on 
the battlements to let the PCs out of his chariot. No 
matter where the party debarks, the chariot hovers 
next to a wall, so all the PCs have to do is step off of it 
and onto the citadel. 

2. The Winds of Pandemonium 

This tower is just like all the other outer towers 
except that it lies near the rent in the cocoon of law. 

As soon as the PCs step onto the tower's top, they 
must attempt saving throws against the maddening 
effects of Pandemonium's winds, as described in the 
About Pandemonium section. Characters gain shelter 
from the wind when they leave the tower top. 

3. Courtyards 

These open areas are paved with rough cobble 
stones. Like the rest of the citadel, the stones display 
the colors black, white, blue, and red. Under the pur 
ple glow cast by the cocoon, the courtyards seem 
dingy and full of brooding shadows. Here and there, 
the party finds mosaics depicting battles in the war 
between Law and Chaos. The forces of Chaos are 
always portrayed as winning handily. Even more 
rarely, the party' finds large husks of creatures 



wrapped in silk. These are predators that have wan 
dered into the citadel through the rent in the cocoon 
only to fall prey to the spyder-fiends. The husks col 
lapse into dust if the party tries to unwrap them. 

Three groups of six kakkuu each patrol the court 
yards; roll ldlO for every round the PCs spend here. 
On a roll of a 1, they meet one of the groups. If the 
party kills all three groups, do not roll for more 
encounters here. 

The shadows and mosaics provide excellent cam 
ouflage for the kakkuu as they lie in wait for the 
party. The creatures have also laid a network of silken 
strands over the courtyards so that they can menace 
parties that are flying at altitudes of 400 feet or less. 
(Parties flying higher do not roll for encounters in the 
courtyards.) There is no geomorph for this encounter. 

Kakkuu (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Kakkuu) (6): AC 

2; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 4; hp 20 each; THAC0 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2d4; SA spell-like abilities at 4th level, 
poison, webs; SD webs, immunities, concealment; SW 
susceptible to holy water; MR 15%; SZ M (5' long); 

ML steady (11); Int semi (3); AL CE; XP 5,000 each; See 
Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will -darkness 15' 




fhe Citadel of Chaos 


radius, teleport without error; always active -infravision 
(60-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison, he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The victim can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d4 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the victim suffers a 
-2 penalty to Dexterity for 2d4 rounds. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a save 
vs. breath weapon, or wrap helpless or unconscious 
creatures. Can use a web ability while making a physi 
cal attack, but not while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Concealment makes a kakkuu 80% undetectable 
when motionless and in cover. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

4. Battlements 

The outer curtain walls are 100 feet thick and 200 
feet high; they are not equipped with ladders or 
handholds for getting down to the courtyards. If the 
characters wish to descend, they must use the stairs 
in one of the towers, fly, or climb down. The walls are 
very smooth and should be considered slightly slip 
pery for climbing purposes (see PHB, Chapter 14). 

A patrol of five kakkuu led by a phisarazu com 
pletes a full circuit of the battlements about every 
hour. Whenever the party steps onto the battlements, 
roll ldlO. On a roll of 1 or 2, the patrol sights the 
party and moves to attack. (If the kakkuu sees 
Arquestan dropping off the PCs, they wait until he 
leaves before attacking.) Otherwise, the PCs automat 
ically encounter them when they spend two or more 
turns on the battlements. Use the battlement geo- 
morph if the patrol attacks. 

Phisarazu (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Phisarazu): AC 

-3; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 9+1; hp 46; THAC0 13; 
#AT 3; Dmg 2d6/ld8/ld8 (bite/sword/sword); SA 
spell-like abilities at 9th level, poison, webs, hiding; 
SD webs, harmed only by +1 or better weapons, 
immunities, invisibility detection (40-foot radius); SW 
suffer full damage from iron or silver weapons, sus 
ceptible to holy water; MR 50%; SZ M (7 1/2' long); 

' ML champion (16); Int very (12); AL CE; XP 18,000; 

See Book IV, page 7. 


Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will -alter self, darkness 
15' radius, invisibility, teleport without error, cause fear 
(in a single creature by touch); three times a day- for 
get, mirror image, telekinesis; always active -infravision 

(90-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld3 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison, he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The victim can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d6 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the victim devel 
ops a festering sore after 2d8 hours and loses one hit 
point and one additional hit point each day until he 
receives a neutralize poison spell. The opponent suffers 
a -3 penalty to Dexterity for 2d6 rounds. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a 
save vs, breath weapon, wrap helpless or unconscious 
creatures, or fire a lightweight ball that extends the 
range of the fear ability to 30 yards; every two 
rounds -entangle effect in a 10'x30'x20' cone (range 
0), or a glitterdust effect with a range of 30 yards. Can 
use a web ability while attacking physically but not 
while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Invisibility detection is always active and is non 
magical, cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and 
effects that block divination magic. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

Kakkuu (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Kakkuu) (5): AC 

2; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 4; hp 20 each; THAC0 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2d4; SA spell-like abilities at 4th level, 
poison, webs; SD webs, immunities, concealment; SW 
susceptible to holy water; MR 15%; SZ M (5' long); 

ML steady (11); Int semi (3); AL CE; XP 5,000 each; See 
Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will -darkness 15' 
radius, teleport without error ; always active --infravision 
(60-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison, he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The opponent can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d4 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the opponent suf 
fers a -2 penalty to Dexterity for 2d4 rounds. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 






feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a save 
vs. breath weapon, or wrap helpless or unconscious 
creatures. Can use a web ability while making a physi 
cal attack, but not while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Concealment makes a kakkuu 80% undetectable 
when motionless and in cover. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

5. Gates 

Huge steel grates that look like portcullises block 
these portals. The grates are 100 feet wide, 200 feet 
tall, and have bars 3 feet thick; they weigh hundreds 
of tons. No hinges or winches can be seen. All 
attempts to lift or open the grates fail; the grates do 
not open because they're just for show. 

The spaces between the bars are slightly less than 2 
feet square, and their inner surfaces are covered with 
gear-like teeth. Tiny creatures can slip right through 
the openings without difficulty. Small and man-sized 
creatures can wiggle through but must roll successful 
saving throws vs. breath weapon to avoid getting 
caught on the teeth (small creatures get a +2 bonus to 
the roll). If the saving throw fails, the creature is 
impaled on the teeth and suffers damage equal to 2 
times the character's armor class before modifications 
for shield or Dexterity; bonuses from magical armor 
and protective devices count. Characters who suffer 
damage must roll an additional saving throw vs. poi 
son or become paralyzed for 2d6 turns (onset time 
ld3 rounds). Large, huge, and gargantuan creatures 
cannot pass through the grates. 

If the character's unmodified armor class is 0 or 
less, he gets stuck in the opening instead and must be 
pulled or pushed loose with a successful open doors 
roll or removed through magical means such as a 
reduce spell. The stuck character cannot help with an 
open doors roll. If an open doors roll succeeds, the 
stuck character's armor or outer clothing must roll a 
successful saving throw vs. crushing blow or be 
destroyed. 

Wind-walking characters and those in gaseous 
form can move right through the grates. 

There is no geomorph for this encounter. 

When characters following the battlements reach a 
gate, they face a 100-foot gap bridged only by the 
highest bar of the grate. They can go back to the near 
est tower and detour around, fly over the chasm, or 
walk along the top; a successful Dexterity check is 


required for the last option. If the character gets 
involved in a fight, he suffers a -4 initiative penalty 
and must make a successful Dexterity check each 
time he takes damage. Use of a melee weapon with a 
weight over 5 pounds imposes a -4 penalty on the 
Dexterity check. If the check fails, the character falls 
off the gate to the courtyard 200 feet below (falling 
damage is 20d6). 

I he Keep 

The inner towers are mostly solid, but there are 
rooms inside, connected by passages. Except in the 
rare case when a visitor might find a window, 20 to 
100 feet of solid rock lies between a tower's exterior 
and any chamber or passage inside. The two domed 
towers (B and E) are about 700 feet high; the smaller 
towers attached to them (A, C, D and F) are about 900 
feet high. The remaining tower (G) is about 400 feet 
high and solid, just like the outer ones. 

Inside a tower, the passages have arched ceilings 
three times as high as they are wide and each cham 
ber has a domed ceiling four times as high as the 
room is wide. The corridors are unlit. 

This area is a great place to waste time and run a 
frustrating game for the players. When the PCs enter 
the keep, simply ask the players which direction they 
want to go. Point out their options on the players' 
map and assume the characters get where they are 
going without incident unless you decide they have 
an encounter along the way. For example, if your 
characters enter tower A from the battlement, tell 
them they find a stairway going down or they can fol 
low a passage into the big tower (tower B). Keep 
things moving. 

The paragraphs below contain some additional 
information about the individual areas in the keep 
and some encounters to liven things up a bit. 

Alert: When the PCs seek to cross a bridge, they 
may be attacked (see A Bridge to Cross, page 56). 
Also, Lookout Below! and its companion encounter 
A Proposal should be run when the PCs are traveling 
up any of the keep's staircases. 

A. Entry Tower 

Unlike the outer towers, the passage from the bot 
tom of the stairwell here does not open into the court 
yard, but to the courtyard level of tower B. The tower 
has no special function in the citadel. 


The Citadel of Chaos 


B. Main Tower 

Though they are not shown on the maps, this tower 
has several dozen windows through which flying 
characters can enter. The windows are barred but 
have no shutters or glass. Tiny creatures can wiggle 
through the bars; larger ones must bend the bars with 
a successful band bars/lift gates roll. Characters who 
use the windows wind up on the battlement level. 

Cl-2. Bridge Towers 

These towers have no windows or entrances other 
than the bridges between the towers and the passages 
from tower B. The stairwells connect the towers' 
bridge level to the battlement level of tower B. 

D. Guard Towers 

The bridges from tower C2 provide the only access 
to tower E, where the final piece of the Rod lies. The 
only entrances are the gates at the bridges; there are 
no doors or windows. Use the bridge/gate geomorph 
for these encounters; there are two gates. Read or 
paraphrase the following when the PCs examine one 
of the gates: 

The bridge ends in a portal large enough to admit 
tw'o ogres walking side by side. A silver grate 
blocks the portal. The inner edges of the bars are 
studded with tiny spikes with glittering points that 
look sharper than any needle. 

The grates are simply doors that slide upward. 
Anyone can lift one with an open doors roll. The 
spikes, however, are if anything even sharper than 
they look. Furthermore, if the spikes are examined, 
they appear to be coated with a thin layer of some 
noxious substance, which cannot be removed. Char 
acters operating the grates without metal gauntlets 
suffer ld4 points of damage and must roll successful 
saving throws vs. poison or die immediately. Charac 
ters with gauntlets suffer one point of damage and 
don't have to worry about the poison. 

A spithriku crouches behind the door, hiding. 

When the PCs begin working on the door, it automat 
ically touches one character and uses its fear power. 
When the party finally gets the grate open, the 
spithriku bites and uses its entangle web power. If 
hard pressed, the fiend uses its telekinesis power to 


hurl the lightest looking character off the bridge. The 
spithriku can move up to 175 pounds with telekinesis. 
A character hurled from the bridge suffers 20d6 
points of falling damage upon impact. 

Spithriku (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Spithriku): AC 

0; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 7+1; hp 36; THACO 13; #AT 
1; Dmg 2d6 (bite); SA spell-like abilities at 7th level, 
poison, webs, hiding; SD webs, harmed only by +1 or 
better weapons, immunities, invisibility detection (30- 
foot radius); SW suffer full damage from iron or silver 
weapons; MR 35%; SZ M (6' long); ML elite (14); Int 
average (10); AL CE; XP 12,000; See Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- darkness 15' 
radius, teleport without error, cause fear (in a single crea 
ture by touch); three times a day- telekinesis; always 
active- infravision (90-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The victim can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d4 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the victim suffers a 
-2 penalty to Dexterity' for 2d4 rounds. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a 
save vs. breath weapon, or w'rap helpless or uncon 
scious creatures; every three rounds- entangle effect 
in a 10'x30'x20' cone (range 0), fire a lightweight ball 
that extends the range of the/ear ability to 30 yards. 
Can use a w'eb ability while attacking physically but 
not while using a spell-like ability'. 

80% undetectable when motionless and in cover. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Invisibility detection is always active and is non 
magical; cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and 
effects that block divination magic. 

E. Miska's Tower 

This tower has no windows or entrances other than 
the gates in area D; there is no access from the battle 
ments. If the characters spend any significant amount 
of time near this tower (searching for secret doors, 
trying to dig through the w'alls, or the like), spyder- 
fiends from several areas spot them and teleport to 
the attack. (Teleporting works fine on the citadel's 
exterior.) The first group to notice is the group that 
patrols the battlements, which spots the PCs after a 






The Citadel of Chaos 


turn or two. Every ld4 rounds after the patrol arrives, 
one group of kakkuu from the courtyard teleports in, 
followed by the kakkuu from the bridges, if the PCs 
already have killed the patrol, the kakkuu from the 
courtyard or bridges are the first to notice. 

Once the PCs get inside, it is a simple matter for 
them to move upstairs to Miska's apartments, though 
you might decide to throw a few encounters their 
way (see the Additional Encounters section). 

Miskas Apartments 

These areas are similar to the rest of the tower inte 
riors. The stonework is predominantly black and 
white, and the ceilings are lower, only 20 feet high. 

El. Phisarazu Chambers 

Two invisible phisarazu keep watch over the Rod 
from these chambers. The doors leading to area E2 are 
fitted with peepholes, and the phisarazu are using 
them to watch over the Rod. If the party enters 
through the back door of either of these chambers, a 
surprise roll must be made. The phisarazu has a -2 
penalty to its surprise roll. Because it is invisible, 
however, the party might not notice it. If the PCs go 
to area E2 from here, the phisarazu follows them in. 
When the second phisarazu sees the door open, it 
bursts into area E2, bites, and uses its entangle ability 
while its invisible comrade uses fear on any character 
it can reach. 

The chambers are featureless except for the phis 
arazu. 

Phisarazu (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Phisarazu) (2): 

AC -3; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 9+1; hp 46 each; 
THACO 13; #AT 3; Dmg 2d6/ld8/ld8 
(bite/sword/sword); SA spell-like abilities at 9th 
level, poison, webs, hiding; SD webs, harmed only by 
+1 or better weapons, immunities, invisibility detec 
tion (40-foot radius); SW suffer full damage from iron 
or silver weapons, susceptible to holy water; MR 50%; 
SZ M (7 1 /2' long); ML champion (16); Lnt very (12); 
AL CE; XP 18,000 each; See Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- alter self, darkness 
15' radius, invisibility, teleport without error, cause fear 
(in a single creature by touch); three times a day- for 
get, mirror image, telekinesis; always active- infravision 
(90-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld3 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor 


and cannot move, think, or act. The victim can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d6 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the victim devel 
ops a festering sore after 2d8 hours and loses one hit 
point and one additional hit point each day until he 
receives a neutralize poison spell. The victim also suf 
fers a -3 penalty to Dexterity for 2d6 rounds. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a 
save vs. breath weapon, wrap helpless or unconscious 
creatures, or fire a lightweight ball that extends the 
range of the fear ability to 30 yards; every two 
rounds- entangle effect in a 10'x30'x20' cone (range 
0), or a glitterdust effect with a range of 30 yards. Can 
use a web ability while attacking physically but not 
while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Invisibility detection is always active and is non 
magical; cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and 
effects that block divination magic. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage, 

E2. Rod Chamber 

Tactical Map F5 shows this chamber. Read or para 
phrase the following when the party enters this room: 

Opening the door, you stare into an unusual room. 

It has eight sides and is shaped something like an 
arrowhead. Looking around, it is a shock to see 
that the walls of this chamber defy the clashing 
colors of the citadel that you have seen up until 
now. Instead, the room is encircled by walls which 
are plain and lusterless black. It is difficult to dis 
cern where the floor ends and the wall begins. 

Ultimately, your attention is drawn to a knee- 
high slab of gleaming stone. The gleaming slab 
provides the chamber's only illumination, but it is 
enough to let you see a thick wand of lusterless 
ebony resting on the slab. The wand has one 
rounded end and one faceted end. This is the final 
segment of the Rod of Seven Parts. 

The segment bears a shimmering glyph, just as 
Qadeej predicted it would. 

The slab and Rod segment are not trapped, but the 
phisarazu from area El and Laak-Ral from area E4 



keep watch and attack the PCs when they enter. See 
areas El and E3 for details. 

As they attack, Laak-Ral shouts to his minions to 
kill the PCs before they can assemble the Rod. Laak- 
Ral is following instructions that Miska gave him; 
even if his spyder-fiends are defeated, Miska wants 
the party to complete the Rod. 

Miska knows the instant the Rod is disturbed, and he 
teleports into the chamber whenever the group begins 
fiddling with it. (He uses his empathic connection with 
the Rod to get to a place where he can teleport before 
the characters even get to the room.) The PCs could be 
in for a nasty fight if they handle the Rod before deal 
ing with Laak-Ral and the other spyder-fiends. 

The Final Confrontation: If the PCs already have 
the first six segments of the Rod assembled, they can 
add the final segment in minutes (see Book III). Miska 
is monitoring them via his empathic connection to the 
Rod. If the PCs begin adding the final segment to the 
Rod, he waits until they are done, then teleports in. If 
they move to leave or fail to begin assembling within a 
minute or to, he teleports in, appearing as close to the 
Rod bearer as he can. If the Rod sections are being car 
ried by more than one character, Miska appears near 


the closest one. Before attacking, Miska gives them a 
chance to surrender the Rod. He is happy to converse 
before closing in for the kill: 

• "So, you have brought me the Rod; how very kind 
of you. Give it to me, and witness the power of 
Chaos." 

If the party struck a deal with K'ian'cha, Miska 
says: "I see you have dealt with my worthless lieu 
tenant, as the succubus predicted you would. Extend 
the Rod, and your agreement is complete." 

In any case, if Miska can get a firm grip on the com 
pleted Rod with two of his four hands, he is restored 
to full strength (see below). If the party doesn't want 
to let him do that, he can still grab for it with his 
hands; if he scores two melee hits against the Rod 
bearer's normal armor class, he grabs the Rod. If he 
scores only one successful hit, he can hold on and try 
again the next round. The Rod bearer can tear the Rod 
lose if he wins an opposed Strength roll against 
Miska. (To win, the character must roll under his 
Strength score on ld20 and the number must be 
higher than what the Miska rolls. If the both the char 
acter and the Miska roll the same number, it is a tie. If 
both the character and the Miska fail the Strength 









































The Citadel of Chaos 


check, it is a tie.) Miska's Strength is 19. 

If Miska gets two hands on the Rod at any time, 
however briefly, he is immediately restored. The flow 
of energy creates a shockwave that drives the Rod 
away from Miska with the force of a catapult. The Rod 
bearer and anyone within 10 feet are blasted 30 yards 
directly away from Miska (or to the nearest solid 
object). They suffer 3d4 points of damage and must 
roll a successful saving throw vs. petrification or be 
knocked prone. 

• Once he is restored, Miska does not deliberately 
touch the Rod ; it has become his nemesis. The cocoon 
of law immediately collapses, and the full magical 
effects of Pandemonium rush in (see the About Pan 
demonium section). The winds of the plane flood in 
with a howling rage, and Miska howls with delight. 

Miska sticks around to slay the PCs, as he is in a 
fine mood for killing. If the characters protest that 
they had a deal with the succubus, Miska laughs and 
says: "You didn't listen to her did you?" He has 
K'ian'cha's head stuck to his body with some web 
bing, and he throws the gory trophy to the party's 
feet. 

Miska has 100 hit points after being restored. His 
strength increases to that of a storm giant. (Effectively, 
he has an additional +3 to hit and causes an addi 
tional +5 damage with melee weapons). Also, his 
Intelligence rises to exceptional (15). 

Miska fights until reduced to 40 hit points or less, or 
until the PCs poke him with the Rod. If the characters 
flee, Miska pursues, attacking whenever he can. If 
they fight, ask the player whose character has the Rod 
how he is using it in combat. The completed Rod can 
function as a blunt weapon or a piercing weapon (see 
Book III). As a blunt weapon, the Rod inflicts only half 
damage on Miska. As a piercing weapon, any hit can 
kill him. Note, however, that any hit on Miska with a 
type P weapon sprays the attacker with a gout of ichor 
that can destroy both the wielder and the weapon. If 
the Rod fails its saving throw vs. disintegration, it shat 
ters and a rift opens to a random location on the Prime 
Material Plane. The pieces of the Rod are scattered to 
random locations on the world to which the rift 
opened, and the characters are sucked in, too. How 
ever, Arquestan can rescue them and return them 
home. Miska is once again imprisoned and the rent in 
the cocoon of law is repaired. The PCs have dupli 
cated the final moment of the battle of Pesh. 

If the Rod succeeds with its saving throw, however, 
Miska is irrevocably slain. 


• A less heroic (but perhaps more prudent) tactic for 
the PCs is to grab the final segment of the Rod and 
run like the dickens. Miska's ability to teleport in pur 
suit is strictly limited as he cannot use it to leave an 
enclosed space, so the characters have an excellent 
chance of getting away, especially if they have not yet 
used the Rod's wind walk power. If the party outdis 
tances Miska, he runs outside and then teleports to 
their location. (He can freely teleport within an area, 
or into an area.) In this instance, he will most likely 
confront the characters just before they board Arques- 
tan's chariot. Arquestan will aid the PCs in any way 
he can. 

If this ending seems undramatic, or if the final bat 
tle is too easy after Arquestan has joined it, have 
Miska gather together some spyder-fiends and attack 
in force. 

• If the party leaves the citadel with all the parts of 
Rod unassembled, Arquestan helps them put then 
together. The Rod wielder can automatically seal the 
tear in the cocoon of law. 

• If the characters reduce Miska to zero or fewer hit 
points before he is restored to full health, the wolf spi 
der is "killed," but eventually will regenerate back to 
life and pursue them. Not even a wish can stop Miska 
from regenerating. If the PCs have activated the Rod's 
resurrection power, however, they can use it on Miska 
when he is "dead" (below zero hit points). Resurrect 
ing Miska shatters the Rod and scatters the pieces on 
some random Prime Material world (but not the 
PC's). It reseals the cocoon of law and catapults the 
PCs back to their home world, and it also restores 
Miska to full health. He is still imprisoned, but much 
more powerful. 

• While the party is confronting Miska, don't forget 
Zephrus, the bastard sword Arquestan offered the 
PCs. When the time is right (such as when the Rod 
bearer is killed or Miska is about to escape), Zephrus 
invokes its own power and transforms itself into 
Arquestan, complete with all items and weapons. 

The sword can do this even if Arquestan is present or 
if he has been slain. Zephrus/Arquestan attacks 
Miska with abandon. Note that Zephrus will allow 
the PCs to restore Miska, as this is the only way the 
Wolf Spider can be killed permanently. The sword 
will not, however, allow Miska to escape if it can pre 
vent it. 



The Citadel of Chaos 


Miska the Wolf Spider: AC -7; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; 
HD 24; hp 50 (100 if essence is restored); THACO -3 
(-6 with scimitar or momingstar +3) (-8 with scimitar 
+5); #AT 7; Dmg 2dl0/2dl0/ld8+10/ld8+10/ 
Id8+12/2d4+10/2d4+10 (bite/bite/scim/for of speed 
+3 and Strength bonus/scimitar of speed +3 and 
Strength bonus/sc/mitar +5 and Strength bonus/ 
momingstar +3 and Strength bonus /momingstar +3 
and Strength bonus); SA spell-like abilities at 12th 
level, poison, webs, disintegration; SD webs, harmed 
only by +3 or better weapons, regeneration, immuni 
ties, invisibility detection (90-foot radius), ichor; SW 
susceptible to holy water; MR 70%; SZ H (15' long); 
ML fearless (19); Tnt average (8); AL CE; XP 36,000; 

See Book IV, page 4. 

Notes: 19 Strength. 

Spell-like abilities: at will -darkness 15' radius , tele 
port without error, cause fear (as wand); three times a 
day- chaos, mirror image, shape change, and slow, 
always active -infravision (120-foot range). 

Poison has an immediate onset time. If the oppo 
nent fails a save vs. poison, he falls into a stupor and 
cannot move, think, or act. The victim can attempt a 
Constitution check every 2d8 hours to recover, but the 
venom inflicts an extra points of damage every 30 
minutes. Even if the save succeeds, the victim suffers 
a -3 penalty to Dexterity for 2dl0 rounds. The victim 
also develops a festering sore and immediately loses 
one hit point and an additional hit point every 30 
minutes. The victim cannot benefit from healing 
spells until the poison is neutralized. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a 
save vs. breath weapon, wrap helpless or unconscious 
creatures, entangle effect in a 10'x50'x20' cone (range 
0), fire a lightweight ball that extends the range of the 
fear ability to 30 yards, glitterdust effect (range 60 
yards), or web effect (range 50 yards); three times a 
day-create a waterproof globe. When filled with liq 
uid, a globe can be thrown 10 yards. When filled with 
venom, a globe bursts when thrown, filling a an area 
15' in diameter with a poisonous mist. Creatures 
within the mist must save vs. poison or become 
blinded and mute for 3d4 turns and suffer 3d6 points 
of damage. If the save succeeds, the victim still suffers 
2d6 points of damage and has a -2 penalty on all mis 
sile attacks and a 20% chance of spell failure for ld4 
'rounds. All webs have only a 25% chance to burn if 
attacked with fire. Can use a web ability while attack 


ing physically but not while using a spell-like ability. 

Regenerates 5 hit points a round. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 
Half damage from blunt (type B) weapons. Any slash 
ing (type S) weapon that inflicts more than 5 points of 
damage with a single hit releases a stream of ichor 
that causes the attacker to save. vs. poison or die. Any 
hit with a piercing (type P) weapon causes the 
attacker to save vs. death or die and the weapon must 
save vs. disintegration or be destroyed. 

Invisibility detection is alw'ays active and is non 
magical, cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and 
effects that block divination magic. 

Special Equipment: 2 morningstars +3, scimitar of speed 
+3, scimitar +5 (lawful opponents must save vs. spells 
or be disintegrated when struck). 

E3. Laak-Ral's Chamber 

This chamber is similar to area E2, stark and bare. 
Laak-Ral, a raklupis, regularly peeks into area E2, 
keeping watch over the Rod. He is invisible. The party 
cannot surprise him if they enter the chamber 
through area E2; otherwise, they have a normal 
chance for surprise. 

If the PCs struck a deal with K'ian'cha and fol 
lowed her directions, they'll come through the door 
from the corridor (from the bottom of the map). 

Miska has already slain the succubus, however, and 
warned Laak-Ral about her plans. The raklupis uses 
his shape change ability to look like a succubus: 

This should be the door, if the succubus' directions 
were correct. But as you open the door, it is an 
empty room you peer into. 

A second later, your old friend the succubus 
joins you. The raven-haired, bat-winged beauty 
appears out of thin air. "So sorry, we seem to have 
missed Laak-Ral," she says. "Inconsiderate beast, 
why can't he wait here and be slaughtered like a 
good spider? Follow me." She walks to an alcove 
across the room and presses a stud, which opens a 
secret door. "The clod has to be around here some 
where," says the succubus as she walks through 
the door. 

Alert characters might remember that K'ian'cha 
was a blonde when they last met her. If they ask 
about the hair, the "succubus" shrugs and says a girl 






has to change from time to time. The secret door leads 
to area E2. If the party follows Laak-Ral there, he uses 
his mass charm ability while the phisarazu from area 
El rush out and attack, imposing a -2 penalty to the 
party's surprise roll. 

In any case, Laak-RaTs first action is to use mass 
charm. If the kakkuu from area E5 are still alive, they 
rush to the scene after ld4 rounds. The phisarazu 
from area El remain in their chambers, however, 
unless the fight is taking place in area E2. Laak-Ral 
has three globes filled with venom that he hurls at the 
party's spellcasters should any of them breech his 
magic resistance. 

Laak-Ral (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Raklupis): AC 

-6; MV 12 or 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 12+8; hp 68; THACO 
7 (5 with long sword +2); #AT 3; Dmg 2dl0/ld8+10/ 
ld8+10 (bite/long sword +2/long sword +2 and 
Strength bonus / long sword +2 and Strength bonus); 

SA spell-like abilities at 12th level, poison, webs; SD 
webs, affected only by +2 or better weapons, immuni 
ties, invisibility detection (60-foot radius); SW suffer 
full damage from iron weapons and half damage 
from silver weapons; MR 70%; SZ L (10' long); ML 
fanatic (18); Int genius (18); AL CE; XP 25,000; see 
Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- alter self, darkness 
15' radius, teleport without error, cause fear (in a single 
creature by touch) invisibility, telekinesis; three times a 
day- forget, mass charm (24 hit dice within 30 feet) 
mirror image, shape change, always active- infravision 
(120-foot range). 

Poison has an immediate onset time. If the oppo 
nent fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor and 
cannot move, think, or act. The opponent can attempt 
a Constitution check every 2d6 hours to recover, but 
the venom inflicts an extra point of damage every 
hour. Even if the save succeeds, the opponent suffers 
a -3 penalty to Dexterity for 2d8 rounds. The victim 
also develops a festering sore and immediately loses 
one hit point and an additional hit point each hour. 
The victim cannot benefit from healing spells until the 
poison is neutralized. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a 
save vs, breath weapon, wrap helpless or uncon 
scious creatures, entangle effect in a 10'x50'x20' cone 
(range 0), fire a lightweight ball that extends the 
range of the fear ability to 30 yards, glitterdust effect 


I'he Citadel of Chaos 


(range 60 yards), or web effect (range 50 yards); three 
times a day-create a waterproof globe. When filled 
with liquid, a globe can be thrown 10 yards; when 
filled with venom, a globe bursts when thrown, fill 
ing an area 15' in diameter with a poisonous mist. 
Creatures within the mist must save vs. poison or 
become blinded and mute for 3d4 turns and suffer 
3d6 points of damage. If the save succeeds, the vic 
tim still suffers 2d6 points of damage and has a -2 
penalty on all missile attacks and a 20% chance of 
spell failure for ld4 rounds. All webs have only a 
25% chance to burn if attacked with fire. Can use a 
web ability while attacking physically but not while 
using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Invisibility detection is always active and is non 
magical; cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and 
effects that block divination magic. 

E4. Miska's Chamber 

Miska took up residence in this chamber shortly 
after being imprisoned here. He tore out the jagged 
opening leading to the corridor an inch at a time as 
he smashed at the walls. The rest of the chamber 
shows similar damage. The room is bare except for 
six vaguely man-shaped bundles of silk hanging 
from the ceiling. Three of these contain dried-out 
husks of victims Miska has consumed since K'ian'cha 
arrived. The remaining three are people who suc 
cumbed to Miska's venom before he could consume 
them; these have become bodaks. If the PCs tear 
open their wrappings, the creatures fall to the floor 
and sit there stupidly for a round, then use their gaze 
attacks on the PCs. 

Bodaks (3): AC 5; MV 6; HD 9+9; hp 54 each; 
THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long sword); SA death 
gaze; SD immunities, harmed only by cold iron or +1 
or better weapons; SW sunlight inflicts one point of 
damage per round, susceptible to holy water, can be 
turned as ghosts; SZ M (5'-6' tall); MT steady (11); Int 
low (7); AT CE; XP 5,000 each; PMCA/36. 

Notes: Gaze causes a single creature to save vs. 
death or die (range 10 yards). 

Immune to charm, electricity, hold, nonmagical fire, 
sleep, slow, and poison. Half damage from cold, mag 
ical fire, and gas. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 


E5. Kakkuu Barracks 

These chambers are bare. Two kakkuu wait in each 
one, waiting to pounce on intruders or scurry to 
Laak-Ral's aid. 

Kakkuu (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Kakkuu) (4): AC 

2; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 4; hp 20 each; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2d4; SA spell-like abilities at 4th level, 
poison, webs; SD webs, immunities, concealment; SW 
susceptible to holy water; MR 15%; SZ M (5' long); 

ML steady (11); Int semi (3); AL CE; XP 5,000 each; See 
Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will -darkness 15' 
radius, teleport without error ; always active -infravision 
(60-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison, he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The victim can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d4 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the victim suffers a 
-2 penalty to Dexterity for 2d4 rounds. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a 
save vs. breath weapon, or wrap helpless or uncon 
scious creatures. Can use a web ability while making 
a physical attack, but not while using a spell-like 
ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Concealment makes a kakkuu 80% undetectable 
when motionless and in cover. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

Fl-3 Lookout Towers 

These towers are mostly solid. They have stairways 
connecting their tops to the battlement levels and pas 
sages leading from them to towers B and E, but no 
other features. Tower F3 is connected to Cl by a 
bridge and has a stairway that runs all the way down 
to the battlement and the courtyard, but it is other 
wise similar to the other two towers. 

G. Flanking Tower 

This tower is identical to the outer towers. 







fhe Citadel of Chaos 


Addi tion;!! E neou nters 

These encounters have no fixed locations. Some can 
happen anywhere, and some can happen several 
times, as noted in the text for each encounter. 

A Bridge to Cross 

Three bridges made from blood-red stone connect 
the upper levels of the keep. These spans are 20 feet 
wide and about 18 feet thick. They have no railings- 
it's a 400-foot drop from a bridge's naked edge to the 
courtyard below. The stonework is pocked and 
cracked here and there. Some cracks are 5 feet deep, 
but the stonework is solid overall. 

A group of kakkuu has been assigned the task of 
guarding the bridges. Two of them lurk in one of the 
larger cracks, ready to rush anything that comes too 
close. The other four keep watch from atop tower B 
and teleport in behind the party when their cohorts 
attack. 

Run this encounter the first time the party sets foot 
on the bridge. If the party drives the kakkuu away, 
the survivors join one of the groups guarding the 
courtyard. Use the bridge span geomorph. 

Kakkuu (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Kakkuu) (6): AC 

2; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 4; hp 20 each; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2d4; SA spell-like abilities at 4th level, 
poison, webs; SD webs, immunities, concealment; SW 
susceptible to holy water; MR 15%; SZ M (5' long); 

ML steady (11); Int semi (3); AL CE; XP 5,000 each; See 
Book IV, page 7. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will -darkness 15' 
radius, teleport ivithout error-, always active -infravision 
(60-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison, he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The victim can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d4 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the victim suffers a 
-2 penalty to Dexterity for 2d4 rounds. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a save 
vs. breath weapon, or wrap helpless or unconscious 
creatures. Can use a web ability while making a physi 
cal attack, but not while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 


Concealment makes a kakkuu 80% undetectable 
when motionless and in cover. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

Lookout Below! 

One recent arrival to the citadel is the succubus 
K'ian'cha, who recently returned to the Abyss glowing 
with success after luring a mortal wizard to his doom. 
K'ian'cha's tanar'ri overlords have offered her a 
greater challenge-to enter the citadel and convince 
Miska not to rejoin the Queen of Chaos, but to join the 
Blood War (the aeons-old struggle between tanar'ri 
and baatezu) instead. K'ian'cha accepted the challenge 
and came to the citadel astride a goristro, a huge 
tanar'ri with massive strength and puny intellect. The 
succubus brought with her creatures for Miska to hunt 
and eat. K'ian'cha presented both the creatures and 
the goristro to Miska as gifts. The wolf spider immedi 
ately gorged on the hapless creatures, then ordered his 
new servant, the goristro, to clean up all the chunks of 
masonry that had been knocked loosed during the 
centuries of his captivity. Smashing stone to bits was 
one of the few amusements Miska had. After all the 
centuries, even Miska has begun to fall under the 
influence of the Rod segment and has a faint yearning 
for neatness. The Wolf Spider is in no danger of 
becoming lawful, but the power of the Rod can never 
be completely resisted, even by the likes of Miska. 

The goristro is following its orders to the best of its 
ability. It is gathering up armloads of rock and throw 
ing them down a stairwell. Not being the smartest or 
most dexterous creature, it leaves plenty of debris 
behind as it lumbers about. 

The PCs can encounter the goristro whenever they 
ascend a staircase in tower B or E (but not the staircase 
leading to Miska's apartments). Use the stairwell geo 
morph for the encounter. The goristro arrives at the 
level above the PCs and begins dropping rocks down 
the stairwell when the PCs have climbed about 
halfway up (100 feet). Most of the rocks fall harmlessly 
down the center of the stairwell, but several fragments 
begin bouncing around on the stairs, and each PC 
must roll a successful saving throw vs. petrification or 
suffer 3d4 points of damage. At first, the party might 
think the building is collapsing, but after a minute or 
so the goristro begins tossing down chunks of rock it 
dropped, and the characters can hear it panting and 
grunting. They can get a look at it by leaning over the 
stairwell and peering upward, but anyone who does 
so must roll another saving throw. 




1'he Citadel of Chaos 


If left unmolested, the goristro throws rocks down 
the stairwell for 2d6+2 rounds, then lumbers off to 
pick up more rocks. 

The PCs can avoid serious damage simply by hud 
dling against the walls and waiting for the monster to 
leave. If they decide to attack, they first must ascend 
the 100 feet of stairs above them, which takes about 
six rounds unless the PCs are flying or have some 
other form of special movement available. The 
goristro cheerfully hurls rocks at them while they 
ascend. 

Use the stair head geomorph when the party 
reaches, the top of the stairs and immediately run the 
A Proposal encounter. 

Goristro (Tanar'ri, Greater, Goristro): AC -2; MV 
15; HD 20; hp 141; THACO 1; #AT 2; Dmg 6d4+6/ 
6d4+6 (fist/fist); SA spell-like abilities at 10th level, 
stomp, hurl boulders; SD harmed only by +1 or better 
weapons, immunities, regeneration; SW suffer full 
damage from iron weapons and half damage from sil 
ver weapons, susceptible to holy water; MR 60%; SZ 
H (21' tall); ML champion (15); Int low (5); AL CE; XP 
23,000; See Planescape Planes of Chaos Monstrous 
Supplement, page 26. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- darkness 15' 
radius, detect invisibility, detect magic, fear (as wand), lev 
itation, spider climb, and teleport without error. 

Immune to cold, fire, poison and poison gas, regen 
erate one hit point a round, 360-foot infravision. 

Can hurl boulders 3 to 240 yards for 2dl2 points of 
damage. Stomping affects all creatures within 10 feet 
for 5d8 points of damage unless they are more than 6 
feet tall. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

A Proposal 

The succubus K'ian'cha is wandering tbe corridors 
in towers B and E, hoping to exchange a few words 
with Miska and keeping an eye on the goristro as it 
performs its custodial duties. The PCs could meet her 
in any stairwell, stair head, or hall; pick a geomorph 
that suits your fancy. However, if the PCs choose to 
fight the goristro, she intervenes. 

K'ian'cha makes no attempt to hide who or what 
she is. She has a business proposal for the party, and 
she expects the characters to act in their own best 
interests (as she perceives them). Read the following 
if K'ian'cha intervenes with the goristro: 


You finally reach the top of the stairs, where you 
can deal with your gigantic opponent. On second 
thought, maybe that's not a good idea. The beast is 
fully as tall as the cloud giants you fought not long 
ago, and it has clawed hands, bull horns, and a 
mouth full of canine teeth. There seems to be only 
a faint glimmer of intelligence behind its eyes, 
which glow like two coals in a roaring fire. The 
beast has another rock in its hands and a grimace 
on its vaguely bovine snout that might be a silly 
grin. Throwing chunks of rock at adventurers 
might be some kind of game to it. 

"Put that down!" commands a sensuous female 
voice from behind the beast. "Gently!" the voice 
adds. The beast gives you a distrustful stare. 

The goristro uses its stomp attack if the PCs attack 
it. If they hold their actions, it turns its back on the 
party and lumbers off, still clutching the rock. 

If the party looks past the goristro, they see 
K'ian'cha in her natural form, and she smiles at the 
characters innocently. "He's really just a big child you 
know," she says with a toss of her head. 

If the party attacks the goristro, K'ian'cha flies into 
the air to avoid the stomp attacks and makes one last 
attempt to stop the fight. "This is unnecessary'!" she 
says. She gives a curt command to the goristro, who 
obediently backs away from the party. "Let him go 
unless you want to fight both of us!" she warns. 

If the party is willing to talk, K'ian'cha shoos the 
goristro away and begins to negotiate. 

If K'ian'cha can't establish a dialog, she calls the 
goristro back into the fray and uses charm person on a 
spellcaster. If the charm works, she urges the charac 
ter to get his companions to stop fighting, then tries 
to charm another PC. 

If the PCs meet K'ian'cha elsewhere, read this: 

Somewhere ahead of you, a woman is singing a 
lovely tune. The words are alien, but the melody is 
wonderfully' soothing. A few more paces bring you 
face to face with the singer. She is a statuesque 
beauty, nearly 6 feet tall, with w'heat colored hair, 
alabaster skin, and great bat wings. She is as naked 
as a newborn babe. "Hello," she savs. "So vou are 

j j 

the people wTiose world Miska plans to attack-just 
as soon as he's reunited with his lover, the Queen 
of Chaos. You know, I can prevent that, if you help 
me just a little." 







K'ian'cha flees if the party attacks. If the PCs wish 
to talk, she offers the following: 

• "Listen, I have come here to convince Miska not to 
attack your world! You see, the powers I represent 
want Miska to come back to his own and stop mess 
ing around with primes like yourselves. We're not 
interested in your little world at all. We've got bigger 
fish to fry. 

"Have you ever heard of the Blood War? The 
baatezu are the real evil of the multiverse, and we're 
at war with them. Have been for a long time, really. 
We want Miska to come back and attack another 
world, one full of baatezu. It's down in the lower 
planes. Now, you're not friends of the baatezu, are 
you? Wouldn't millions of dead baatezu be better 
than the death of your whole world?" 

• "Think of it this way: if Miska escapes this citadel, 
historians will report that it was you who let him out. 
They'll say that until the end of time, because it'll be 
true." 

• "Here's the deal. I just need a little time to speak 
with dear Miska without his disgusting toady, Laak- 
Ral, around. That raklupis could charm a dwarf out 
of his gold! I'll distract Miska, and you deal with 
Laak-Ral. Once I convince Miska to see things my 
way, you'll use the Rod of Seven Parts to break down 
the barrier that surrounds this place. Just about 
everyone knows about the rap about that loathsome 
stick. Anyway, once Miska escapes, you can keep the 
Rod. It's an artifact of Law, so no tanar'ri wants any 
thing to do with it. All you have to do is touch Miska 
with the Rod and your troubles will be someone 
else's troubles." 

• "If you agree, Miska will be free, but your world 
will be safe. You have my word that we won't visit 
your world for six or seven thousand years at least. 
And you'll have the Rodl" 

• "If you refuse, you'll probably have to fight Laak- 
Ral and Miska at the same time. Not very fun, very 
unhealthy. Well, what do you say?" 

Most of what K'ian'cha says is true. She really does 
want Miska to leave the Queen of Chaos. What she is 
deliberately withholding is the fact that Miska is 
wounded. If the PCs seem to like the bargain, but 
think K'ian'cha won't keep her word, she points out 
























! he Citadel of Chaos 


that even if she doesn't keep her word the party still 
will be spared fighting both Miska and Laak-Ral at 
once. She also points out that she has nothing to gain 
by betraying the PCs. Once Miska uses the Rod to free 
himself, she'll have her hands full getting him safely 
away from the Queen of Chaos. She'll have no time to 
steal the Rod or attack the party. As for attacking the 
PCs' world, K'ian'cha reminds them that the tanar'ri 
aren't interested in conquering the Prime Material. 

It's the lower planes that count, and that's what the 
Blood War is all about. 

If the PCs accept K'ian'cha's offer, the succubus 
tells them how to reach Laak-Ral's chamber: "Cross 
one of the bridges leading to the small domed tower, 
deal with the guard at the gate-sorry, you'll have to 
take care of that yourself-and ascend the small spi 
ral stair. Turn left at the top of the stairs, then left 
again. Take the second left, then go left and left again. 
The first door you see opens into Laak-Ral's cham 
ber." If the party wants to be teleported there, 
K'ian'cha reminds them that teleportation doesn't 
work very well in the citadel. Should the PCs ask, 
K'ian'cha gives them a quick rundown on the 
raklupis's powers. 

K'ian'cha's dishonorable deal will net the party 
nothing in the end. The Queen of Chaos knows about 
her plan and has been advising Miska about it via his 
ability to commune with her, a power K'ian'cha 
knows nothing about. Laak-Ral is alone in his cham 
ber when the PCs arrive no matter what they do, and 
Miska will not appear until the party enters the Rod 
chamber (area E2). If the party expects Miska to leave 
quietly after they have released him, they're going to 
be in for quite a shock. 

If the party tries to string K'ian'cha along in an 
attempt to get information about Laak-ral or Miska 
without agreeing to the deal, she is not fooled (cour 
tesy of her ESP ability). But she allows the PCs to 
believe she's buying their doubletalk long enough to 
seize the nearest PC for a kiss, then teleport to the far 
end of the hall and flee (teleportation is possible 
within an area). 


If the party does leave the area quickly, the suc 
cubus returns with the goristro in tow, and the PCs 
have a fight on their hands. Otherwise, they do not 
encounter her again. 

DM Note: A character under Zephrus's control will 
never agree to the succubus's offer, and will attack if 
not restrained. 

K'ian'cha (Tanar'ri, Lesser, Succubus): AC 0; MV 12 

or 18, FI 18 (C); HD 6; hp 31; THACO 15; #AT 2; Dmg 
Id3/ld3 (fist/fist); SA spell-like abilities at 18th level, 
energy drain, SD harmed only by +2 or better weap 
ons, immunities, never surprised; SW suffer full dam 
age from iron weapons and silver weapons, suscepti 
ble to holy water; MR 30%; SZ M (6' tall); ML elite (14); 
Int exceptional (16); AL CE; XP 11,000; PCMA/109. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will -charm person, 
clairaudience, ESP, darkness 15' radius, etherealness (as 
potion of etherealness), plane shift, shape change (to 
humanoid form of about own height and weight), 
suggestion, teleport without error. 

Immune to electricity, fire, and poison. Half dam 
age from cold and gas. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

I roubleshootin^ 

If the PCs decide to retreat and enter the citadel 
again, Arquestan advises against it, but he uses his 
chariot to take the party to a safe place where they 
can rest and regain spells. If they don't use the Rod 
while recovering, the queen won't find them. The 
party can leave Pandemonium, as Arquestan sug 
gests, and hope to keep the Rod out of the queen's 
hands. Or they can enter the citadel again. K'ian'cha 
and the goristro are gone when they return, but rein 
forcements have arrived and there are two spyder- 
fiends in the citadel for every one there was before. 
Arquestan will risk accompanying the characters on 
their second tty because he knows they have no 
chance of surprising Miska on the second attack. 







Arquestan takes the survivors out of Pandemonium 
after they escape from the citadel. After that, Arques- 
tan's actions hinge on exactly how successful the PCs 
were: 

Miska has been slain 

First, Arquestan checks to make sure that all of the 
heroes made it out of the citadel; he scans the nearby 
area of Pandemonium to see if anyone missed the 
rendevous. Finally, he goes back inside and retrieves 
anyone left behind, dead or alive. Once everyone is 
secure, Arquestan transports the characters to the 
Vale of Aaqa. 

Arquestan's usually stoic countenance is showing 
an unmistakeable grin as he orders his wind char 
iot onward. Within a short while, your stay in the 
land of howling winds is done, and once more you 
must traverse a gray featureless void before return 
ing to a land of sun and earth. 

The trek is soon done, though, and shortly you 
find yourselves warming up by the light of a sun 
which can recognize as not your own. Staring 
down, you see forest below. 

"1 hope you don't mind," Arquestan says, "but I 
want you to meet a few of my friends before I take 
you to your home." The many globes of light that 
Arquestan seems to wear like clothing begin to 
buzz about, tense and exhilarated. As Arquestan 
commands the chariot to rise, you gaze over a 
mountain into a sheltered valley, and with sudden 
confidence you realize that you are still not on 
your own world, and you begin to wonder if you 
are staring into some retreat of the gods. 

The land can only be described as perfection: a 
mild sun and cool breeze foster a verdant city 
below. Dispersed within the city you see buildings, 
trees, and gardens, and immensely tall towers. 

There are markets, farms, stables, and domesti 
cated animals all about. People are milling about 
the pathways below, many of them pointing up at 
your passage. All bear the recognizeable stamp of 
Arquestan's and Qadeej's race. Despite the many 
structures and diverse flauna, there is an unques 
tionable order to the place. No leaf nor pebble of 
the road is out of place. This is a home of Order 
and Law. 

The chariot descends, and Arquestan tells you to 
hold aloft the Rod and show it to everyone. "Miska 


the Wolf-Spider is dead!" he shouts. "The war is 
over." 

The wind dukes cheer, their melodic voices ris 
ing to the sky above. 

The immortals welcome the heroes into the Vale of 
Aaqa and invite them to stay as long as they wish. 
They are honored as the saviors that indeed they are; 
only with the threat of war gone can perhaps the 
vaati race flourish once again. The celebrations 
should last for days before the vaati decide exactly 
what rewards are appropriate to such champions. 

First, the characters are forever remembered as 
friends and allies of the wind dukes. Despite their 
withdraw from affairs of the world, the memory of 
vaati's greatness is not entirely forgotten, hi the 
future, no creature of the air nor any being of the 
Elemental Plane of Air will attack the heroes without 
being attacked, and all such creatures will demon 
strate respect for the PCs, and will assist them if 
able. Finally, the vaati offer each character one of the 
following: 

• A wish. 

• The ability to fly as a vaati (speed 12, maneuverabil 
ity A) for up to seven hours a week. 

• The ability to use reveal truth as a haikjadeam (see 
the vaati description in Book IV). 

• The ability to summon whirlwinds once a day as a 
trygrideam (see the vaati description in Book IV). 

• A young hound of law, bonded to the hero as friend 
and companion. 

• A wind chariot. 

• The sword Zephrus. 

The DM can assign a reward from the vaati or 
allow players to choose. 

A few elements of business remain. The Queen of 
Chaos is sure to remember the party's role in this 
portion of the Rod's saga. Though her ability to pun 
ish the PCs for interfering with her plans is limited 
(ruling a layer of the Abyss provides many distrac 
tions), she is not the sort to let the matter lie. She is 
likely to assign a raklupis or a lycosidilith (or more) 


Jsfterward 


to harass the party for the rest of their lives. Seeking 
out this and destroying this creature is likely to 
occupy time and resources. If the party keeps the Rod 
after the adventure is over, the queen's spyder-fiend s- 
continue to harass them until they destroy it (see the 
Book of Artifacts for details), send it to another world 
(see the notes on the Rod in Book III), or give it to the 
vaati. 

The vaati in the Vale of Aaqa recommend to the 
characters that they give the Rod over. Here it will be 
safe for all time, and ready to be wielded should 
worthy champions of Law ever need it again. They 
plan to build a monument to the heroes; their 
images, graven in stone, will stand watch over the 
Rod. They warn the characters that the Queen is 
likely to continue to harass the party for all time if 
they keep it, and that the waves of Chaos that so dis 
torted their world will remain as long as the Rod 
holds the Queen's interest. 

DM Note: Here in the Vale of Aaqa, the Rod bearer 
will be able to resist the side effects described in 
Book III and give up the Rod to the vaati. 

Qadeej is another one not likely to forget the PCs. 
His thirst of for a new war with Chaos has been fes 
tering for millenia, and the PCs have foiled his plans. 
Qadeej is not completely mad, however, and instead 
of acting against the party will begin to plot some 
other way to reopen the war. A party who sets out to 
expose Qadeej as a traitor has quite a task on its 
hands. 

Eventually, it comes time for their good friend 
Arquestan to give his farewells: 

"I'm home," Arquestan says wistfully. "For cen 
turies I've tracked the Rod and kept it out of the 
hands of the Queen of Chaos and her minions. I 
think I could use a vacation, and maybe so could 
you. Call upon me should you ever need." 

Arquestan has finally come home; his years of self- 
imposed exile have ended since the threat of renewed 
war seems finally to be over. 

Miska remains Imprisoned 

Arquestan transports the survivors of the conflict 
with Miska back to their own world, and offers to 
help them with getting healed and mended. While he 
is saddened that the party was ultimately unsuccess 
ful, no true harm has been done since Miska remains 


locked away in Pandemonium. 

The Queen, on the other hand, has a score to set 
tle. As noted above, she will send spyder-fiends in 
number to assault the PCs and their world. The 
waves of Chaos will, if anything, intensify. As long 
as the PCs have the Rod, there is still the possibility 
for her to free Miska once again, and that goal has 
not changed. 

If the PCs have a properly assembled Rod, they 
can scatter the pieces on a random world by using 
the Rod's resurrection power. Or they can surrender 
the Rod to Arquestan and the wind dukes. Either of 
these will end any Chaos effects on the PCs' world, 
and the queen will begin searching elsewhere for the 
Rod. She remembers the PCs should their paths cross 
again. 

Arquestan, and perhaps some of the other friendly 
NPCs, might continue to assist the party with news 
of any plots brewing against them, but otherwise 
they are too busy continuing to track the Rod after 
the party finally gets rid of it. 

Meanwhile, Qadeej will offer to take the Rod off 
the hands of the PCs. He will use whatever means of 
persuasive he can to get possession of it; his promises 
and bribes could be quite lucrative. Of course, imme 
diately after he has the Rod, Qadeej travels to Pande 
monium and frees Miska. The war begins. 

The Wolf-Spider Escapes 

If Miska escaped, Arquestan picks up any surviv 
ing PCs and takes them home, then rushes off to pre 
pare for the soon-to-be resumed war between Law 
and Chaos. 

This failure is likely to have grave consequences 
for the campaign: the PCs' world is the first to be 
invaded. The Chaos effects the world has suffered 
(see the Chaos Waves adventure in Book III) get 
worse. The PCs' world is doomed unless they can 
reassemble the Rod and slay or imprison Miska. 

The most likely direction the campain is likely to 
take is to move toward a replay of the battle of Pesh. 
If the PCs still have the Rod, the vaati encourage the 
PCs to mount a attack and drive directly at Miska. 
This noble if desperate act could correct the failure at 
Pesh a millenia ago. If the universe is to be saved, 
Miska must be destroyed with the Rod. The wind 
dukes assist as best they can. 




















































































r iJ ~. 


tradem; 


1145xxxl902 


v l 


- 72 / 

/ V 














































































A\nv" 

Dun 


TOMES 


f: / |SC7( 

DIV-SEVENl* % / 


~D PART5I /§/ 

^ f / /: 


wok 

m 

'/ 






































































Book III 



About the Rod . 

History. 

Appearance. 

Researching the Rod . 

Properties. 

Powers of Individual Segments 

Assembling the Rod . 

Major Powers. 

Resonant Powers. 

Disassembling the Rod . 

Breakage. 

Side Effects. 

An Example of the Rod in Play. 


Table of Contents 


.2 

.2 

.2 

.4 

.4 

.5 

.5 

.7 

.7 

.9 

.9 

.9 

12 


New Magic Items... 

Side Treks... 

Chaos Gates... 

Chaos Reigns. 

Good Samaritan. 

Waves of Chaos. 

Into the Vastest Bog. 

Mysterious Stranger. 

Dragonfire... 

Playing the Game. 

Dragonfire within the AD&D(r) Campaign 


13 

14 
14 
19 
21 
24 
24 
27 
31 

31 

32 


Credits 

Design: Skip Williams *• 

Editing: David Eckelberry 5 - 

Cover Design: Stephen A. Daniele and Greg Kerkman 
Cover Illustration: R. K. Post 

Interior Illustrations: Glen Michael Angus, Arnie Swekel, Phillip Robb, Jim Roslof, and Erol Otus 

Graphic Design: Greg Kerkman 
Cartography: Diesel, David Martin, and Arnie Swekel 
Typesetting: Tracey L. Isler 
Art Director: Stephen A. Daniele 

Playtesters: Phil Anderson, Dave Conant, Shawn Costa, Scott Douglas, and Jon Pickens 

AD&D, ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, DUNGEON MASTER, and the TSR logo are registered 
trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. All T5K characters, character n&SRe&:and the distinctive like- 
neasea ihepeot are trademarks owned by TSR, lire. 

55199fe*fSR, Ino Aft rights reserved. This product is protected under the copyright laws of the United 
States of America. Any reproduction or other unauthorised use <}f the material or artwork con 
tained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR,Inc. ..:/ ' : f T ¦ '• 

Random House and its affiiate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Tnc. Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United King 
dom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby market by regional distributors. 


TSR, Inc 

201 Sheridan Springs Road 
Lake Geneva 
WI 53147 



1145XXX1503 



























During this acfosenture, the Rod of Seven Parts functions 
as described here. The information presented in this 
section supersede&afl previous material about the Rod. 

History 

Aeons ago, in the Age of Legends, a great war arose 
between Law and Chaos. The roots of the conflict are 
obscure, shrouded in the mists of antiquity. Perhaps 
Chaos arose to spread decay and promote autonomy. 
Or maybe Law embarked on a crusade to stamp out 
discord and promote unity. Or perchance a monu 
mental conflict between the two opposing forces was 
simply inevitable. Theories from sages and historians 
tend to reveal more about their authors' preferences 
tSlh they do about the truth of the matter. 

is known that at first the two sides struggled 
\y*|hout regard to good or evil, in a conflict for domi- 
nance untainted (and undignified) by any other con 
sideration. Warfare raged on several worlds (dozens 
by some accounts). The opposing armies were 
mighty. The guardians of Law were the Wind Dukes 
of Aaqa, scions of an empire already ancient at the 
war's beginning. The champion of Chaos was an 
enigmatic being known only as the Queen of Chaos. 
The dash between the two was epic, but painfully 
ind||pive. No matter how resolute and brave the 
legions of Aaqa, they could not force the armies of 
Cha^po yield. No matter how cunning and unpre 
dictable the Queen, her troops could not dislodge the 
Wind Dukes from a single world. Battles were lost 
and won, but the war ground on. 

The stalemate began to break when the queen 
appointed a powerful and ruthless tanar'ri as her 
new general. Miska the Wolf-Spider brought fresh 
troops into the war, and his evil hordes cut a swath 
through theiegions of Aaqa, crushing them and seiz 
ing control Ofl^orld after world. A chaos army with 
Miska in ttto'yiflaguard was unstoppable. 

The Wintt-^ipps were quick to sense defeat loom 
ing over them,#*d they began gathering good crea 
tures to combatfjliska's evil. But many chaotic yet 
good creatures who had deserted the Queen when 
Miska appeared would not join them. After a hurried 
council, the most powerful champions in the Wind 
Dukes' armies withdrew from the war, leaving their 
best troops, the Captains of Law, to resist Miska as 
well as they could. The seven champions combined 
their powers to create a weapon that could slay Miska 
and strike fear into the hearts of the minions of Chaos. 

The weapon the heroes forged was a tapered rod of 


black metal, not quite as tall as a man. It could be 
used to batter or pierce foes. 

When the Rod was completed, the seven champions 
rejoined the conflict at the battle of Pesh, on the world 
of Oerth. After weeks of maneuvering, the two armies 
clashed on a vast, volcanic plain. In the swirling 
melee that developed, the Captains of Law drove a 
wedge into the ranks of Chaos and separated Miska 
from the bulk of his troops. After a furious engage 
ment, Miska stood alone, facing the bearer of the Rod 
and a single comrade. While the bearer's companion 
sacrificed himself in a selfless attack, the Rod bearer 
drove the weapon into Miska's body. 

Stricken, Miska wailed in anguish, and his screams 
were so terrible that every soldier on the battlefield 
was briefly transfixed. As Miska writhed in agony, his 
foul blood covered and penetrated the Rod. As the 
absolute Law imbued in the Rod mingled with the 
Chaos in Miska's blood, the fabric of the multiverse 
was ripped asunder. The Rod shattered into seven 
pieces and Miska was cast through a planar rift. The 
hordes of Chaos surged to the scene, but the Rod 
bearer gathered up the fragments and dove through 
the rift, sealing it. 

The sundering of the Rod spared Miska from death, 
but a portion of his being remained in the Rod, leav 
ing the general crippled. When Miska retreated to a 
citadel of Chaos, the Wind Dukes intervened, impris- 
Koning him in a cocoon of pure law and casting him 
into the depths of Pandemonium, whose damp caves 
and howling winds have hidden all manner of exiles. 

The Wind Duke who followed Miska through the 
rift has disappeared from the chronicles. Most sages 
assume he is dead. The seven fragments of the Rod, 
however, have been found and lost again on many 
worlds. The sundered Rod is a powerful tool of Law, 
but each time it is assembled the minions of the 
Queen come calling, hoping to extract Miska's 
essence from it so he can escape his prison and lead 
the armies of Chaos again. Many scholars regard the 
Rod as a harbinger of doom because of the clash 
between Law and Chaos that inevitably follows it. 

Appearance 

If all its component pieces are rejoined, the Rod of 
Seven Parts is 5 feet long. The butt is rounded and 
about 2 inches across. The opposite end is about as 
thick as a man's little finger. 

Being an artifact of Law, the Rod's segments do not 
look broken. Each "break" is a set of very intricate 












About the Rod 


geometric facets with both protrusions and depres 
sions. Any two pieces can be fitted together with 
patient twisting and pressing, like a three-dimen 
sional puzzle. The individual segments are 4, 5, 6, 8, 
10,12, and 15 inches long. 

Miska's blood has converted the Rod's metal into a 
lusterless black substance of indeterminate weight; a 
character holding a segment in his hand feels some 
thing substantial, but the segment feels neither light 
nor heavy. The fully assembled Rod weighs about 
seven pounds, but feels as light as a feather. 

Some of the Rod's segments have been incorporated 
into larger items and are not readily identifiable. See 
the Powers of Individual Segments section for details. 

Researching the Rod 

Once the PCs get their hands on the first segment 
of the Rod, they will undoubtedly seek to learn more 
about it. Attempts to analyze the Rod with spells such 
as detect magic and identify come to naught, as the Rod 
is impervious to them. 

If the party takes part of the Rod to an NPC wizard, 
sage, or bard, he or she will be puzzled, and suggest 
that the party cast or commission a legend lore spell. 

DM Note: Bards can use their ability to identify 
items to recognize the first segment of the Rod, with 
its ebony handle, as King Siryl's wand of healing. If a 
bard successfully identifies the wand, the character 
can immediately make a second check; if the second 
check succeeds, the bard knows that the wizard Mit- 
cou claimed it was fashioned from part of an artifact 
of the vaati. 

A bard also can try to identify other segments of 
the Rod, but the character's chance of success is 
reduced by half and a successful roll reveals only that 
the segment must be part of a larger item. 

A legend lore spell gives a clue to the Rod's true 
nature: 

That which was sundered on Pesh's plain, 

Holds back chaos's reign. 

Yet the vaati's deed shall remain undone, 

Until the seven again become one. 

Any sage can tell the party that the vaati are a lost 
race of immortals more commonly known as the 
Wind Dukes of Aaqa. A sage versed in folklore, his 
tory, or law (see DMG, Chapter 12) can tell the party 
the whole story of the battle of Pesh and the events 
leading up to it. 


An NPC can also suggest that the party try a legend 
lore spell to reveal the Rod's powers and command 
words. If they do so, you may show them the back of 
Card 5. (The legend lore caster sees an image of the 
coat of arms shown on the card.) The back of Card 1 
and Card 6 contain additional information. 

Eudora, the diviner from the Incident at a Foot 
bridge adventure in Book I, knows all about the Rod. 
If the PCs rescue her, they have access to all the infor 
mation they need, except where the segments are. If 
the party did not meet Eudora at the beginning of the 
quest, the DM can use her as an advisor to the party. 

Once the party understands what they have, they 
will probably wish to assemble the pieces. The PCs 
can do their own magical research to discover what 
needs to be done, or they can consult an NPC, as the 
DM wishes. 

Properties 

Except where noted otherwise, the fully assembled 
Rod of Seven Parts and all of its segments have the fol 
lowing properties: 

• The Rod radiates a faint dweomer if examined with 
a detect magic spell. The spell does not reveal what 
type of magic is present. 

• The spells detect evil, detect good, identify, know align 
ment, and locate object divulge nothing about the Rod. 
Magical effects, spell-like powers, and psionic powers 
that duplicate the effects of these spells are also useless. 

• The Rod is immune to most forms of harm. It is 
impervious to the destructive effects of magic, breath 
weapons, and psionics. If placed in a situation where 
it would be utterly destroyed, such as crushed under a 
slab of stone or broken by a gargantuan creature, the 
Rod is either unaffected or teleports to a random loca 
tion as described in the Assembly section. In general, 
only extraordinary effects will cause the Rod to tele 
port. A blast from a fireball, for example, merely leaves 
the Rod unscathed. The Rod teleports away if it con 
tacts a sphere of annihilation or is successfully attacked 
by a rod of cancellation (the Rod of Seven Parts is com 
pletely unaffected on a roll of 3 or more on ld20). 

• The Rod can be concealed by magic. If the character 
holding the Rod becomes invisible, the Rod becomes 
invisible. If the Rod bearer is polymorphed, the Rod 
becomes incorporated into the bearer's new form, 




although if the new form is destroyed the Rod is auto 
matically separated from the character's body. 

• If a character holds any portion of the Rod and 
thinks of it as part of larger item, he receives a vague 
impression of where the next largest piece lies. The 
character has no indication of how far away the next 
piece is, just a direction (north, south, east, west, up, 
down, or any combination of directions). The effect is 
similar to a locate object spell in that the character 
holding the Rod can slowly turn and know when he is 
facing the direction in which the next segment lies. 
The character need not actually see the segment he is 
holding; the effect is purely mental. If the character 
comes within 70 yards of the next piece, the impres 
sion of direction fades, leaving the bearer to his own 
devices. If the bearer subsequently moves more than 
70 yards from the next piece, the impression of direc 
tion returns, but fades again as the bearer gets closer. 
Intelligent characters can use this property to triangu 
late the next piece's position. 

Powers of Individual Segments 

Each segment of the Rod has its own minor spell 
like power, which requires the user to concentrate 
upon a command word. Invoking a minor power has 
an initiative modifier of 2; it counts as an action for 
the character, but does not require speech and cannot 
be disrupted as a spell can. Minor powers function at 
20th level and are useable by any character. The seg 
ments' names are derived from the words to the 
vaati's motto during the war against Chaos (See Card 
5). The DM is free to substitute names and command 
words that are more appropriate for the campaign. 

1. The 4-inch tip can cure light wounds five times a day. 
A long-forgotten wizard fitted the tip with an ebony 
handle to make it easier to use. The resulting device 
appears to be a normal wand about 14 inches long. A 
true seeing or legend lore spell reveals it to be com 
posed of two parts. 

The tip's cure light wounds power operates nor 
mally, as does the Rod's curse (see the Side Effects 
section). The wand resists all forms of detection; a 
detect magic spell reveals nothing about the wand, and 
other magical divinations are also ineffective, as 
explained in the previous section. 

The ebony handle does not have any special resis 
tance to attacks, and saves as thick wood. If the han 
dle is destroyed in an attack, the tip is unaffected. 


Anyone who discovers the wand's true nature can 
pry the tip out of the handle. If the tip is separated 
from the handle, it radiates faint magic as every seg 
ment of the Rod does. 

The tip's name and the command word for the cure 
light wounds power is Ruat. 

2. The 5-inch segment can create a slow effect once a 
day with a duration of 23 rounds. The name and com 
mand word is Coelum. 

3. The 6-inch segment can produce haste once a day 
with a duration of 23 rounds. The character wielding 
the segment doesn't age, but everyone else who is 
affected does. The name and command word is Fiat. 

4. The 8-inch segment can create a gust of wind five 
times a day. The gust is 10 feet wide and 200 yards 
long. The name and command word is Justitia. 

5. The 10-inch segment provides true seeing once a 
day for 20 rounds. The name and command word is 
Ecce. 

6. The 12-inch segment produces hold monster once a 
day (the effect lasts 20 rounds). The name and com 
mand word is Lex. 

7. The 15-inch segment can heal once a day. The name 
and command word is Rex. 

Assembling the Rod 

Assembling the Rod is a complex and often frustrat 
ing process that requires considerable research. The 
chaos that Miska's blood infused into the Rod causes 
segments to scatter if they come too close together. If 
any two segments come within one foot of each other, 
the newest, largest piece teleports IdlOO miles in a 
random direction (see table below). 

Special magical glyphs, one for each segment, are 
required to prevent the pieces from teleporting when 
brought together. The process of inscribing the glyphs 
is similar to writing a magical scroll. Any priest, wiz 
ard, or bard of at least 7th level can attempt it if the 
character has the proper materials and knows the cor 
rect procedures. 

The required materials include a brush made from 
the hair of two rare and powerful lawful creatures, 
one good and one evil. The creature must give its hair 
freely, and must have six or more hit dice (not levels). 



iV 


About the Rod 


A pigment made from diamond, iron, lead, and sev 
eral other ingredients also is required. Pigment mate 
rials for a single glyph cost about 300 gp. 

The best way to discover the correct procedures for 
making the glyphs is to locate a written description; 
however, a character can discover it himself through 
research if a proper library and laboratory are avail 
able. Use the spell research rules from Chapter 7 of 
the Dungeon Master(r) Guide. The glyphs are as 
expensive and difficult to research as a 6th level spell, 
except that any priest, wizard, or bard of at least 7th 
level can attempt it. 

Scribing a glyph onto a segment requires seven 
hours of uninterrupted work. The base chance for suc 
cess is 70% +1% per character level. If the character 
made the brush himself, there is a 5% bonus to the suc 
cess chance. Characters proficient in painting or callig 
raphy get an additional +5% bonus. The character can 
rush the job if he wishes. For every hour or fraction of 
an hour the character saves, reduce the chance of suc 
cess by 10%. The task takes at least 10 minutes. Any 
roll of 96-100 is a failure regardless of the actual success 
chance. The DM should make the success roll in secret. 
The only way the PCs can judge success is to bring two 


parts of the Rod together. Note that when a glyph fails, 
it is always the largest piece that teleports away when 
two pieces are brought together, even when the smaller 
piece has the defective glyph. When a piece teleports, it 
loses its glyph. Defective glyphs can be removed with 
a dispel magic or erase spell. 

No spell, not even a wish, can prevent pieces of the 
Rod from teleporting if they are brought together 
without the proper glyphs. 

Once the glyphs are in place, any being with at 
least average intelligence (9 or higher) can fit pieces 
of the Rod together. Generally, joining two pieces 
requires 20 minutes of fiddling. If it becomes neces 
sary to determine exactly how long a character has to 
work to join two parts, roll ld20. If the result is less 
than or equal to the character's Intelligence score, 
subtract the roll from 20 to see how many minutes 
the task requires. If the roll is higher than the charac 
ter's intelligence score, the task takes 2d4+18 min 
utes. Even with the proper glyphs, pieces of the Rod 
must be joined in the proper order. Each piece can be 
joined only with the next largest or the next smallest 
piece (see diagram of the back of Card 6). For exam 
ple, the 4-inch tip can be joined only with the 5-inch 












piece, which itself can be joined only to the tip and to 
the 6-inch piece. If anyone tries to join pieces in an 
improper order, the two pieces that are being forced 
together both teleport away in random directions, 
and both pieces lose their glyphs. 

Joining two or more compatible parts creates a 
major power, as described in the next section. If the 
segments are combined in strictly numerical order, 
the parts create even more potent resonant powers 
(see the Resonant Powers section). 


• Four segments allow the user to control winds twice 
a day. The unit functions as a horseman's mace +2. 

• Five segments grant the power to shape change as 
the 9th level wizard spell once a day. The unit func 
tions as a quarterstaff +3. 

• Six segments allow the user to wind walk once a day. 
The unit functions as a quarterstaff +4. 


dlO Roll 

Teleport Direction 

1 

North 

2 ill 

Northeast 

3 

East 

4 

Southeast 



$ 

Southwest 

7 

West 

8 

Northwest 

9 

Straight Up* 

10 

Straight Down* 


* The distance is only ldlO miles 

Major Powers 

As the Rod's segments are joined together, more 
potent abilities become available to the user. Invoking 
a major power has an initiative modifier of 3, but the 
procedure is otherwise the same as using a minor 
power. Major powers function at 20th level. Any 
group of segments that fit together (see the Assembly 
section) can be joined to create a unit with a major 
power. If three or more segments are joined, the 
resulting unit has only one major power-the one 
produced by the greatest number of segments. The 
unit has all the minor powers from the individual 
segments in it. The commands words for a major 
power are tire names of the segments that create it, 
and the name of the smallest piece comes first. For 
example, if the party joins the 6- and 8 inch segments 
together, the command words would be Fiat Ecce. 

• Two segments bestow flight as the 3rd level wizard 
spell fly at will. 


• Seven segments can create a restoration effect, as the 
7th priest spell, once a day. The unit functions as a 
quarterstaff +5. The unit can also be employed as a 
piercing weapon with the same characteristics 
(weapon speed, damage, etc.) as a quarterstaff. 

Resort a 11 1 Powers 

The Rod of Seven Parts is most powerful if its seg 
ments are joined in the proper order. To create reso 
nant powers, the Rod's segments must be joined one 
at a time starting with the tip. Resonating units retain 
all their major and minor powers. The major power 
usually is enhanced. In some cases, resonant units 
also have additional powers. 

The Rod does not resonate if assembled in reverse 
order or if assembled from two or more units that 
have been put together to create duplicate major 
powers. For example, if a party starts with the tip 
and then adds segments 2, 3, and 4 one at a time, the 
resulting unit resonates. However, if the party takes 
the same four segments, but joins parts 1 and 2 to 
create one unit and joins parts 3 and 4 to create 
another unit, both units have the major power of 
flight. If the party then joins those two units together 
the resulting unit does not resonate and has consid 
erably fewer powers that it would have if properly 
assembled. 

If a nonresonant unit is joined to a resonant unit, the 
resulting unit is nonresonant. For example, a party has 
joined segments 1,2, and 3 to create a resonant unit. If 
the party also has a unit made from segments 4 and 5 
and joins the two units together the resulting unit 
would be nonresonant. The command words for reso 
nant powers are the names of the segments that make 
up the units that create them, plus the word Maxima. 


• Three segments add 20% to the wielder's magic 
resistance. The unit can be used as a blunt weapon 
and functions as a horseman's mace +1. These powers 
are continuous and don't require command words. 


• Segments 1 and 2: Instead of flight as the wizard 
spell fly, user can, at will, fly at a speed of 24, with 
class A maneuverability. 


7 




• Segments 1, 2 and 3: The wielder gains the ability to 
influence creatures from the Elemental Plane of Air. 
No creature native to the plane can approach within 5 
feet of the user unless the user attacks first. Even 
then, the user gains a +2 bonus to armor class and to 
all saving throws. Any damage the user suffers is 
reduced by -2 hit points per die (minimum 1 point 
per die). This power does not require command 
words. 

• Segments 1, 2, 3 and 4: The wielder gains the ability 
to charm creatures from the Elemental Plane of Air. A 
charm attempt counts as an attack on the creature. 

The wielder cannot attempt to charm the same crea 
ture more than once a day. 

• Segments 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. The rod bearer can cast 
weather summoning once a day. 

• Segments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. The wielder can create 
a whirlwind once a day and maintain it for up to 
seven hours; it takes seven rounds to form. The 
wielder and up to six man-sized companions can ride 
the whirlwind, or the wielder can direct it at any dis 
tance as long as he keeps it in sight. 


The whirlwind (and any passengers) moves at a 
minimum speed of 9, but its top speed is 18; the 
wielder chooses the exact rate. It is 10 feet wide at the 
base and 40 feet wide at the top. The height can be 
from 30 to 70 feet as the wielder chooses. The base 
must always touch land or water. 

The whirlwind buffets anyone caught within it for 
2d6 points of damage each round, but a successful 
saving throw vs. breath weapon negates the damage. 
Non-aerial creatures with two hit dice or less are 
killed if the saving throw fails. The wielder and pas 
sengers are not affected. 

Controlling the whirlwind requires minimal con 
centration. Damage to the wielder does not end the 
whirlwind, but the wielder can take no action other 
than movement while controlling it. If the wielder 
loses consciousness or is killed the whirlwind dissi 
pates. 

• Segments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. The wielder can cast 
resurrection as the 7th level priest spell, except that no 
resurrection survival check is required. Using this 
power always causes the Rod to scatter. See the Break 
age section for details. 













About the Rod 


Disassembling the Rod 

Resonating sections of the Rod of Seven Parts cannot 
be deliberately taken apart once they have been 
joined (though they can break apart by accident, see 
the Breakage section). Nonresonant sections can be 
broken apart. 

Disassembling the Rod requires at least one unat 
tached segment. A reversed form of the glyphs 
required to assemble the Rod must be inscribed onto 
the unattached segment. Once the glyph is in place, 
the loose segment is used to strike the partially 
assembled Rod. When struck the Rod falls apart, and 
the largest piece teleports away. If the reversed glyph 
is incorrectly inscribed (see page 6), the section that 
bears the faulty glyph teleports away when brought 
within one foot of any other part of the Rod. 

Once disassembled, the Rod can be reassembled by 
scribing new glyphs on the individual segments. 

Breakage 

The taint of chaos the Rod carries makes it unstable 
even when properly assembled. Any use of a major or 
resonant power has a 5% chance that the entire Rod 
will break apart and scatter. If the Rod breaks, all the 
segments lose their glyphs and teleport away as 
described on page 7, but they go twice as far. Only the 
smallest piece of the Rod remains. 

The resonant power of resurrection always makes 
the Rod scatter. The Rod breaks and the pieces vanish 
through a planar rift and appear at random locations 
on some world in the Prime Material plane. There is 
no way to tell which world, but the Rod never 
appears on the same world twice in a row. 

Whenever the Rod arrives on a new world, its pow 
ers change subtly, and the Queen of Chaos must 
begin her search for the Rod all over again. Player 
characters who send the Rod off to a new world gain a 
powerful enemy. Fortunately, the queen eventually 
picks up the Rod's scent again and forgets about the 
PCs-unless they have done something to make her 
remember them. 

Side Effects 

Carrying and using the Rod of Seven Parts can be 
hazardous, especially for characters who have align 
ment restrictions. Using the Rod can also alert the 
Queen of Chaos to its location. 


Lawful Influence 

Any character holding or carrying even one piece 
of Rod of Seven Parts immediately falls under its law 
ful influence. As the Rod is assembled, its influence 
over the bearer becomes stronger. Eventually, the 
Rod's bearer becomes Lawful Neutral, and the desire 
to promote law dominates his life. 

A character holding a single piece of the Rod auto 
matically suffers the first effect from the list below. 
Each time a piece is added to the Rod, the bearer auto 
matically suffers the next effect from the list. Side 
effects are cumulative. 

• Single piece: The bearer cannot abide disorder. The 
character keeps himself scrupulously neat and clean, 
and strives to keep his equipment and belongings in 
some kind of logical order. If given a chance, the char 
acter seeks to arrange any disorderly collection of 
objects he encounters. The character straightens pic 
tures, sweeps up debris, and generally shows a preoc 
cupation with neatness. If the character's player does 
not role-play this new aspect of the character's per 
sonality, the DM should present the character with 
some unusually disorderly situation at least once each 
adventure. If the player ignores the situation, the 
character becomes distracted and suffers a -Igpenalty 
to all saving throws, ability checks, and surggRse rolls 
for the rest of the day or until the charactejBpanges 
things neatly. The character need not igrtt||pmore 
pressing concerns in favor of neatness, but n ap# deal 
with the situation as soon as it becomes reasolSpie to 
do so. Nor does the character have to undertake any 
thing that requires more tlpn 5 or 10 mifiutes of 
effort. For example, a chjpcter visiting i squalid inn 
need not scrub the entinficommon room, but does feel 
inclined to sweep up ajlthe dust at thejtable where he 
is sitting and arrange^pe plates and flatware in a 
regular pattern. .. J ap '* 

The character's phonal fastidiousness improves 
his Charisma by onapoint. 

The character bedjpes Lawful, though the good- 
evil component of mb character's alignment is 
unchanged. Thievsi and bards who bedfeme lawful %; 
suffer a -10 penal# to Pick Pockets, Open Locks, 

Hide in ShadowsJtnd Hear Noise, but gain +15 to 
Find/Remove Tiros and Read Languages (their more 
ethical and logjial minds are less adept and sub 
terfuge and trjjffl and error, but better at analysis). If 
the optional tJBef skills from the Player's Option " 
books are in pn the character also suffers a -10 





About the Rod 


penalty to Bribe and Escape Bonds and a +15 to 
Detect Illusion. 

If the character is a priest required to follow a non 
lawful alignment, the character immediately loses the 
ability to memorize the highest level of spells nor 
mally available and any granted power has a 10% 
chance to fail when used. The penalties remain until 
the character discards the segment. 

If the character is a wild mage, he loses the ability 
to cast wild magic, but must abide by all other restric 
tions of his specialty unless he chooses to abandon it. 
If the wild mage discards the segment, his ability to 
cast wild magic returns. 

• Two pieces: The character never agrees to random 
determinations for anything that could be accom 
plished by more lawful means. For example, the char 
acter will not accept dice rolls for distributing trea 
sure. The character insists on some more logical and 
nonrandom means of distributing the spoils. 

If the character is a priest required to follow a non 
lawful alignment, the character immediately loses the 
ability to memorize all but 1st and 2nd level spells 
and any granted power has a 50% chance to fail when 
used. The penalties remain until the character atones. 

• Three pieces: The bearer refuses to knowingly 
break any law, no matter how absurd the law or how 
minor the infraction, unless the character can find a 
legalistic loophole that allows him to avoid prosecu 
tion and punishment. Obviously, this side effect 
restricts rogue characters a great deal; rogue abilities 
remain unchanged (beyond the modifiers listed 
above), though rogues who fall this far under the 
Rod's influence are unwilling to use some of them. 

The character refuses to part with the segments of the 
Rod that he holds. The character gains a +2 bonus to all 
saving throws vs. charms, suggestions, and similar 
effects that subordinate his will to that of another, 
including magic jar. 

If the character is a priest required to follow a non- 
lawful alignment, the character's deity is deeply 
offended by the character's failure to divest himself of 
the Rod. The character suffers 2d 10 points of damage 
and loses 50,000 experience points. (If the character 
had less than 50,000 experience points to begin with, 
the character is reduced to 0 experience instead.) 
However, a lawful neutral deity of the DM's choice 
immediately steps in and offers to accept the charac 
ter as a priest. (The deity might actually appear in 
avatar form or the character might have a dream or 


vision.) If the character accepts, he immediately 
becomes a priest of the same level as before (but after 
the experience loss). If the character's experience total 
is insufficient to make him a priest of that level, the 
character's experience total immediately increases to 
the minimum required to attain that level. 

If the character refuses the offer, the penalties 
remain until the character atones as noted under 
Removing Side Effects. 

• Four pieces: The character never deliberately tells a 
lie. The character can evade the truth through equivo 
cal or obscure statements, so long as what the charac 
ter says is the literal truth. 

Every lawful creature the character meets instinc 
tively knows the character is being truthful whenever 
the character actually speaks the clear and frank truth 
with no attempt at evasion. 

At this point, law is becoming more important to 
the character than good or evil. Paladin and ranger 
characters lose their spellcasting abilities. Priests who 
are required to follow a good or evil alignment cannot 
memorize their highest level of spells, and their 
granted powers have a 10% to fail each time they are 
used. 

• Five pieces: The bearer cannot tolerate extremes of 
emotion. If the character ever becomes angry, fearful, 
envious, or reaches any other strongly emotional 
state, the character becomes confused and unable to 
take any meaningful actions for ld4 rounds. The 
character cannot move, attack, cast spells, or use any 
abilities; however, the character is not helpless. Sav 
ing throws and armor class are unaffected. 

Strong emotional states cannot be imposed upon 
the character from the outside. The character is 
immune to all forms of fear, and to spells such as 
taunt and emotion. Spells that play on the victim's 
fears, such as phantasmal killer, are also ineffective. 

The character's alignment becomes lawful neutral. 
A paladin or ranger loses his special abilities (except 
for ranger tracking) until the character atones. A 
priest who must follow a good or evil alignment suf 
fers his deity's displeasure, and suffers 2d 10 points of 
damage and loses 50,000 experience points. An evil 
priest must also save vs. death or be irrevocably slain. 
In any case, the character cannot memorize spells 
higher than 2nd level and all granted powers have a 
50% chance to fail. No deity steps forward to adopt 
the character; the character must atone or abandon 
the priest class. 







About the Rod 


• Six pieces: The character takes everything he hears 
or reads literally, making no attempt to understand 
deeper meaning or irony. The character does not auto 
matically believe everything he sees or hears, but he 
does assume that every speaker and writer means 
exactly what he says-nothing more, nothing less. The 
character might well assume that a speaker or writer 
who uses metaphors, similes, or other forms of color 
ful language is an outright liar. 

If magically charmed or commanded, the character 
follows all his instructions to the letter. 

• Seven pieces: The bearer seeks to maintain the pri 
macy of law over chaos in every situation, whether 
for good or for ill. The character perceives anyone not 
adhering to his views as an enemy, even close friends 
and other party members. 

The fully assembled Rod radiates an aura of fear 
some, icy Law with a 20-foot radius. All the bearer's 
enemies (as defined above) must attempt saving 
throws vs. spell or flee in panic for one turn. 

Avoiding the Rod's Influence 

No barrier or protective device can prevent the Rod 
from influencing the bearer, including anti-magic shells 
and extradimensional spaces. A character who carries 
a Rod segment in a portable hole is still under its 
influence. Manipulating the Rod indirectly (with an 
unseen servant or a telekinesis spell, for example) does 
not provoke any side effects. Note, however, that a 
character must touch the Rod -and therefore fall 
under its influence-to use any of its powers. Any 
portion of the Rod can be in only one creature's pos 
session at a time. When is doubt, the creature actually 
touching the Rod is the bearer. For example, if a char 
acter tucks the Rod in his backpack he becomes the 
Rod bearer. If the character then climbs aboard a 
mount, the mount does not fall under the Rod's influ 
ence. The spyder-fiends in this adventure try to take 
advantage of this fact when they have to handle the 
Rod. As chaotic evil creatures, they cannot safely pos 
sess it. (Miska is an exception, sometimes; see Book 
IV). They can, however, charm or manhandle some 
other creature who is carrying the Rod. 

Alerting the Queen 

Over the centuries, the Queen of Chaos has devel 
oped the ability to sense use of the Rod. Each day a 
party has the Rod, there is a chance the queen will 


take notice, depending on which power has been 
used. When the queen senses the Rod in use, she dis 
patches a group of spyder-fiends to attack the group. 
Details for encounters with these teams of fiends are 
included in the Chaos Gates adventure in this book. 

If it becomes necessary to randomly determine if the 
queen detects a use of the Rod, refer to the table 
below. 

Action 

Used no powers 
Change in ownership 
Used minor power 
Used major power 
Use resonant power 
Added a segment 
Removed a segment 
Scattered segments 
Per consecutive day when 

checks were required* 

* For example, if the party uses the cure light wounds 
power the chance for detection is 5% the first time the 
power is used. If the party uses the cure light wounds 
power every day for five days the chance for detec 
tion on day five is 55%. 

At the end of each day (sunset or midnight, at the 
DM's option), note what the PCs have done with the 
Rod in the previous 24 hours and roll percentile dice 
to determine if the queen has sensed their activity. 
Total all the numbers that apply. For example, if the 
party has used the cure light wounds power, then 
added a segment and made use of the fly major 
power, the queen's chance to notice is 35% (5+20+10), 
and possibly higher if the party used the Rod yester 
day, too. If the queen notices, she spends ldl2 hours 
determining the PCs' location, then sends a group of 
spyder-fiends to attack the party via her chaos gate 
power. 

Removing Side Effects 

All the Rod's side effects, good and bad, go away 
when the bearer discards the Rod. Alignment changes 
imposed by the Rod are involuntary and usually 
entail no penalties to the character. Paladins, rangers, 
and specialty priests, however, are special cases, as 
are all other characters who have class-based align 
ment restrictions. As noted above, characters can lose 
experience points and access to spells when their 


Sense Chance 

0% 

5% 

5% 

10 % 

15% 

20 % 

5% 

10 % 

10 % 




About the Rod 


alignments shift to lawful and then to lawful neutral. 
Such characters' alignments return to normal when 
the Rod is discarded. Characters such as paladins, 
rangers, and druids, however, can face lasting conse 
quences from their trips into ultimate Law. As soon as 
such characters become free of the Rod, they must 
seek a priest of like alignment and receive an atone 
ment spell. The atonement always includes a quest 
designed to further the ethos the character has vio 
lated. Upon successful completion of the quest, the 
character's lost spells and class abilities return, but 
lost experience does not. 

An Example of the Rod in Play 

Torin, a paladin, and his friends have found the 
wand containing the Rod's tip. The group is puzzled 
when their detect magic spells reveal nothing about the 
wand, but Torin's detect evil ability reveals nothing, 
either. Torin keeps the wand. Being a paladin, he does 
not suffer-or even notice-the involuntary shift to 
lawful alignment, but everyone notices the paladin's 
newfound preoccupation with neatness. Torin's 
already exceptional Charisma score climbs slightly 
higher. 

After consulting a sage, the group learns how to 
use the wand's cure light wounds power, and gets a 
hint that the wand might be more than it seems. After 
further research, the party separates the Rod's tip from 
the wand, and gets an idea of where the next piece 
lies. 

When they recover the second piece, the party 
gives it to Devorah, a neutral good specialty priest. 
Devorah's sudden urge to be as neat as possible is 
expected, and amusing, but her loss of spells is nei 
ther. Devorah resolves to have nothing further to do 
with the Rod, and she returns to normal when she 
gives up her segment. Kayn, the group's mage/thief, 
also declines to handle the segment, so Torin takes 
charge of both. Neither piece has a glyph, however, 
and the second piece teleports away. 

After an effort, the party recovers the second seg 
ment. After storing both segments in a safe place, the 
party settles down while Kayn looks into a method 
for joining the segments. Learning how to make the 
glyphs required to assemble the Rod is as difficult as 
researching a 6th level spell, so after 12 weeks of 
work and an expenditure of 3,600 gp, Kayn is ready 
to see if the effort succeeded (the DM got the time and 
cost figures from Chapter 7 of the DMG). Kayn's 
Intelligence is 18, giving him an 85% chance to suc 


ceed. The roll is successful, and Kayn learns not only 
how to write the glyphs, but also how to write the 
reversed glyph needed to disassemble the Rod and 
how to make the necessary pigment and brushes. 

Getting hair for the brushes requires another series 
of improbable adventures, but the party gets the hair. 
After hiring an alchemist to prepare the pigment, and 
an artist to make several brushes, Kayn gets ready to 
inscribe glyphs on the two segments. He is in no 
hurry, and spends seven hours on each glyph. Kayn is 
10th level, and has no artistic skills, so his chance to 
complete each glyph is 80%. The DM rolls each 
chance secretly, and both succeed. 

When Torin wields the joined segments, he gains 
the minor power from each segment ( cure light 
wounds and slow), and the major power of fly. Because 
the two segments are resonant, Torin gets the 
improved flight power. Torin's distaste for disorder 
grows, however, and the next time the party divides 
treasure he cannot agree to roll dice to see who gets 
first choice. Instead he insists the spoils be divided 
according to a group vote. 

Later, the party locates parts 3 and 4, already 
joined. When Kayn attaches the two segments to the 
portion the PCs already have, the flight power disap 
pears. The major power of control winds replaces it 
(because the added section was nonresonant). The 
resulting unit, however, also has four minor powers 
(cure light wounds, slow, haste, and gust of wind). Torin 
still finds himself compulsively neat and opposed 
random decision making. He is also unable to break a 
law and unable to tell a lie. Torin becomes less sus 
ceptible to charms and similar mental attacks, but his 
newfound preoccupation with law strips him of his 
special paladin abilities. Still, he refuses to part with 
the Rod. 




Ointment of Protection from Fungi: This ointment is 
an original creation of the drow alchemist Istovahn 
(see Book I, page 58). Usually kept in sealed jars, this 
liquid is to be applied externally. The application 
makes its user invulnerable to most fungi, including 
the special attacks of violet fungi and phycomids. A 
creature coated in the ointment is also protected from 
the rhizomes of gas spores. 

XP Value: 1,000 GP Value: 5,000 

Vaati Blade: During the war against chaos, the 
vaati equipped their greatest heroes with enchanted 
blades that functioned as +4 weapons on the Prime 
Material Plane and +3 weapons anywhere else in the 
multiverse. 

Since the war, most of the blades have been lost or 
destroyed, but a few remain. All vaati blades are Law 
ful Neutral. A vaati blade with an Intelligence score 
has a special purpose to defeat chaos and grants its 
wielder a +2 bonus to all saving throws against 
attacks launched by chaotic creatures and reduces the 
damage from such attacks by -2 hit points per die 
(minimum one point per die). 

XP Value: 2,000 GP Value: 10,000 

Special: 3,000 15,000 

Wand of Vapors: These devices are typically fash 
ioned from materials such as ivory, alabaster, or 
smoky quartz. Only wizards can use the wand. The 
wand can create the following wizard spell effects: 

• Wall of fog: The effect fills eight 10-foot cubes. The 
range is 30 yards and the duration is 2d4+6 rounds. 
The effect drains one charge and works just like the 
lst-level spell. 

• Stinking cloud: The effect fills a 20-foot cube up to 30 
yards away. It lasts 6 rounds. The effect drains two 
charges and works just like the 2nd-level spell. 

• Cloudkill: The effect creates a cloud of deadly vapor 
40 feet long, 20 feet high, and 20 feet wide up to 10 

<Klllfl|i in Tl 1 i I 6 rounds, drains 3 charges, and 
works just like the 5th level spell. 

XP Value: 4,500 


Wind Chariot: The vaati created these powerful ^ 
conveyances for rapid transport; they are virtually 
unknown outside the Vale of Aaqa. When deacti 
vated, a wind chariot looks like a flat silver disc one 
foot across and 2 inches thick. When a character steps 
on the disc and speaks the proper command word, 
the disc transforms into a white cloud about 8 feet 
across. When a second command word is spoken, the 
cloud spins, forming a whirlwind 40 feet high. The 
user and up to 10 man-sized companions can ride the 
whirlwind. T 

The whirlwind moves at a minimum speed of 9, 
but its top speed is 36 (maneuverability B); the user 
chooses the exact movement rate. The whirlwind 
causes no damage, but it negates all wind and gas 
effects, magical or natural, within 30 feet of the user. 
The character and his passengers can pass through 
gale force winds, cloudkill spells, or the winds of Pan 
demonium without ill effects. Creatures from the Ele 
mental Plane of Air can enter the radius only with the 
user's permission, and cannot attack the user or his 
companions unless they attack first. 

The user can take no other actions while controlling 
the chariot, but a successful attack on him does not ' 
affect the chariot. 

A third command word allows the user to instruct 
the chariot to travel alone to any destination named, 
or to wait at a specified location within 300 yards of 
the caster and come when called for. The chariot 
assumes its cloud form when waiting. The chariot i$. 
immune to all attacks while in cloud or whirlwind W 
form. In disc form, it makes item saving throws as 
metal, with a +4 bonus. 

Five percent of all wind chariots can create an 
Ottiluke's resilient sphere effect around the user and his 
passengers. The sphere's diameter can be from 5 to 15 
feet at the user's option. 

XP Value: - GP Value: 100,000+ 



GP Value: 25,000 





SIDE TREKJ 


Six short adventures arc presented here to help fill the 
gaps between tile major episodes in the quest for the 
Rod and help keeflpfe story moving. They also pro 
vide details for handling a few things that will 
inevitably will arise during play, such as spyder- 
fiends arriving through a chaos gate and the Rod 
breaking and scattering. 


Chaos Gates 

v'jf' ^§j|. 

If the Queen of Chaos detects the Rod being used 

I age 11), she uses her chaos gate power to dis- 

a group of spyder-fiends to the scene. The gate 
; a maximum of 10d4 yards from the character 
vas using the Rod when the queen noticed. For 
segment the party has recovered beyond the 
subtract ld4 from the number of dice rolled. For 
ale, if the party has recovered three segments of 
)d, the gate opens 8d4 yards from the character, 
gate is close enough for the party to see, read or 
hrase the following: 

w k ,,... 

The mournful howl of a wolf makes your hackles 
rise. What could be disturbing the creature? It seems 
to be close by. A look around reveals no wolf, but 
you at once notice a strange shimmer in the air. The 
area glows brightly, and the surface behind it melts 
away to show a surreal landscape of alabaster spires 
and trees as white as new sheets. A sky the color of 
a bloated fish's white belly hangs overhead. Charg 
ing at you from the trees is a troupe of wolf-headed 
creatures with spider bodies. You realize with a start 
that the monsters are after you. 

The homing wolf is one of Arquestan's hounds of 
law, the party. If a wolf is not appropriate 

for the party is in, substitute any other nor 

mal anima^l^^djust the creature's statistics accord 
ingly. If th#1|^^(d of law description in Book IV does 
not contain statistics for the animal you choose, pick 
something sim"Mfrom the list. 

If there are lawful good characters in the party, the 
hound helps thedjlfight off the queen's agents. When 
the encounter is o|rer, the hound rushes to tell 
Arquestan about the attack. 

The creatures iri the gateway are spyder-fiends 
rushing to attack. Statistics for the spyder-fiends and 
the hound of law are found below. Refer to the table 
below to determine the number and kind of the 
ambushers. # 


If the party doesn't see the gate opening, the spy 
der-fiends fan out and locate the Rod bearer. When the 
find their target they surround the party, using any 
cover available in their area and their invisibility pow 
ers (if any) to remain out of sight until ready to attack. 

Die Roll* Spyder-fiends 

2-4 ld4+l kakkuu 

5-7 1 spithriku and ld4+2 kakkuu 

8-10 1 phisarazu and ld4+3 kakkuu 

11 1 lycosidilith, 2 phisarazu, and 
ld4+2 kakkuu 

12 ld6+3 spithriku 

13 1 lycosidilith and ld6+l spithriku 

14 2 lycosidiliths and ld4 phisarazu 

15 1 raklupis, 2 phisarazu, and ld8+2 kakkuu 

16 ld6+3 phisarazu 

17 1 raklupis and ld6+2 phisarazu 

* roll ldlO and add the number of Rod segments the 
Rod bearer and his party has. Anytime the gate opens 
within 10 yards of the party, the queen reaches 
through the gate herself with one of her tentacles (see 
below for details). 

The Queen of Chaos's chaos gate power creates a 
shimmering gateway anywhere within 25 feet of her 
person; the gateway can be from 5 to 15 feet in diame- 
tbrand can rest against a surface or hang in the air in 
".any orientation the queen desires. The gateway 
remains for one round. 

The gateway marks one end of a passage made 
from warped reality. The other end can be anywhere 
on the Steaming Fen or the Prime Material Plane and 
appears as an identical gateway. A creature stepping 
into one gateway instantly steps out the other. Travel 
is possible in both directions, and two or more crea 
tures can travel in both directions simultaneously. 
Anyone but the queen, a tanar'ri, or a creature native 
to the plane of Limbo stepping through the passage 
has a 25% chance to age ldlO years. 

Objects and magical effects cannot travel through 
the passage unless carried by creatures. 

The gateway is all but invisible in anything except 
bright light ( sunlight, continual light, or a light spell). 
Under normal circumstances, a creatipftpioking into 
the gateway sees nothing but a disturbance in the air. 

The gateway's location depends on the current 
location of the character who was using the Rod when 
the queen detected it, not that of whoever happens to 
Have the Rod at the time the gateway opens. The 
fiends coming through the gateway instinctively 





know who the target is and can recognize him by 
sight. If they lose sight of their quarry, they know 
what direction to go, but not the distance. They retain 
the ability to track the target for one hour. Items that 
block divinations, such as amulets of proof against detec 
tion and location, negate the tracking ability, but not 
the ability to recognize the quarry. 

Characters who step through a gateway find them 
selves standing within five feet of the Queen of 
Chaos. See the Chaos Reigns adventure for the 
queen's reaction when PCs step through a gate. 

When a chaos gate opens within 300 yards of any por 
tion of the Rod of Seven Parts, there is minor clash 
between Law and Chaos. This conflict makes the gate 
clearly visible. When viewed from the side, the gate 
looks like a disc of black fire. Viewers looking into a 
gate from the front or back see a dimly lit tunnel (which 
is quite a sight if the gate appears in thin air). An alter 
nate landscape of any description the DM wishes is vis 
ible inside the tunnel, and the viewer can see any crea 
tures who are using the gate moving rapidly through it. 
In the blink of an eye, the travelers emerge from the 
tunnel. A viewer who steps into the tunnel to meet the 
travelers is instantly transported to the other end. Trav 
elers pass each other unseen within the tunnel. 


Spyder-fiend Tactics 

The spyder-fiends are trying to seize the Rod, and 
they'll do their utmost to get it. They concentrate their 
attacks on the Rod bearer. 

As much as they want the Rod, however, the fiends 
cannot bear its touch. Fiends with the telekinesis 
power can manipulate it mentally, but they must 
leave it behind when they teleport. If they can charm 
the Rod bearer, they "invite" the character to come 
away with them, then seize him and teleport to the 
Steaming Fen. 

If they fail to charm the bearer, fiends with arms 
will try to grab the character with a wrestling attack 
and teleport back to the Steaming Fen with the char 
acter. Because spyder-fiends have claws, the attempt 
to grab the character does not grant the character a 
free attack. However, the attack must hit the charac 
ter's normal armor class (a grab causes normal claw 
damage). If the fiend can get both claws on the char 
acter (two melee hits) it can teleport away the next 
round. Because a spyder-fiend's teleport without error 
ability is an innate power, it cannot be disrupted like 
a spell, but the party can beat the fiend to the punch. 

If the party wins initiative, they can pry the fiend's 



































Side Treks 


claws loose (which requires an opposed Strength 
check) or grab the fiend or the Rod bearer so that their 
combined weight exceeds what the fiend can teleport. 
The fiends' effective Strength scores and teleport 
capacities are listed below: 


Fiend 

Strength 

Teleport** 

kakkuu* 

- 

250 lbs. 

spithriku* 

- 

250 lbs. 

phisarazu 

18/01 

250 lbs. 

lycosidilith 

18/00 

250 lbs. 

raklupis 

20 

550 lbs. 


* The fiend has no grasping appendages and cannot 
teleport away with a character in its grasp. 

** In addition to the fiend's own weight. 

If a fiend teleports away with a character, they go 
directly to the Queen of Chaos's throne room (see the 
Chaos Reigns adventure in this book). Roll to see if 
the teleport fails (even teleport without error has a 
chance to malfunction if the caster uses it to move 
between planes), but assume the fiends have "studied 
carefully" the throne room. If the fiend and its pris 
oner teleport low, both are killed, and the queen sim 
ply digs out the segment and keeps it. The character 
can be recovered only by a wish or if his comrades 
arrange to recover the corpse. If the fiend successfully 
teleports, ,go to the Chaos Reigns adventure. If the 
fiend hSeports high, roll falling damage before going 
to the Claos Reigns adventure. 

TheJjfieen'sTactics 

If the queen read teg through the gate herself, the gate 
remains'open severafrounds instead of the normal one 
round. The queen extends one tentacle through the gate 
and reaches for the Rod bearer (use the statistics from 
the Chaos Reigns adventure). If the queen grabs the 
Rod bearer, she pulls the character through the gate on 
the next round, and the gate closes the round after that. 
No feat of strength can save the character, but the ten 
tacle can be severed. If the queen cannot grab the Rod 
bearer within ld4+l rounds, she withdraws the ten 
tacle, and the gate closes one round later. 

Hound of Law: AC -6 or (0 in dog form); MV FI 18 
(A) (15 in dog form); HD 8+2; hp 41; THACO 13; #AT 
0 (1 in dog form); Dmg nil (2d4+2 in dog form); SA -5 
to opponents' surprise rolls, become astral, ethereal, 
or invisible at will, tracking, +1 attack roll bonus vs. 
chaotic creatures; SD +1 to own surprise rolls, detect 


invisible creatures 50% of the time, chaotic creatures 
suffer -1 attack penalty and a -1 penalty to each die 
of damage, spell immunity; MR 30%; SZ T (T tall) 
(size M in dog form); ML fearless (19); Int average 
(10); AL LN; XP 3,000; See Book IV, page 3. 

Notes: Base tracking score is 16; ignores vision- 
based penalties. Can follow a creature that has tele 
ported if it succeeds with a tracking roll at a -2 
penalty (the only other penalties that apply are one 
from the trail's age). 

Immune to all spells except protection from evil, 
magic missile, and maze. 

Kakkuu (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Kakkuu): AC 2; 

MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 4; hp 20 each; THACO 17; 

#AT 1; Dmg 2d4; SA spell-like abilities at 4th level, 
poison, webs; SD webs, immunities, concealment; SW 
susceptible to holy water; MR 15%; SZ M (5' long); 

ML steady (11); Int semi (3); AL CE; XP 5,000 each; See 
Book IV, page 8. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- darkness 15' 
radius, teleport without error, always active- infravision 
(60-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The opponent can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d4 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the opponent suf 
fers a -2 penalty to Dexterity for 2d4 rounds. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a 
save vs. breath weapon, wrap helpless or unconscious 
creatures. Can use a web ability while making a phys 
ical attack, but not while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Concealment makes a kakkuu 80% undetectable 
when motionless and in cover. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

Lycosidilith (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Lycosidilith): 

AC -4; MV 12 or 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 10+6; hp 51; 
THACO 9; #AT 3; Dmg: 2d4/ld6+6/ld6+6 (bite/short 
sword + Strength bonus/short sword + Strength 
bonus); SA spell-like abilities at 10th level, poison, 
gating, webs; SD webs, harmed only by +2 or better 
weapons, immunities, invisibility detection (50-foot 
radius); SW suffer full damage from iron weapons 
and half damage from silver weapons; MR 60%; SZ M 


16 






(5' 6" tall) or L (8' long); ML champion (15); Int excep 
tional (16); AL CE; XP 22,000; See Book IV, page 10. 

Notes: Spell like abilities: at will- alter self, darkness 
15' radius, teleport zvithout error, cause fear (in a single 
creature by touch) invisibility, telekinesis; three times a 
day- forget, mirror image, polymorph self, always 
active- infravision (90-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld3 rounds. If the oppo 
nent fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor and 
cannot move, think, or act. The opponent can attempt 
a Constitution check every 2d6 hours to recover. Even 
if the save succeeds, the opponent develops a festering 
sore after 2d8 hours and loses one hit point and one 
additional hit point each day until he receives a neu 
tralize poison spell. The opponent also suffers a -3 
penalty to Dexterity for 2d6 rounds. 

Gate ability works three times a day with a 60% 
chance of success, it summons 2d 10 kakkuu, ld8 
spithriku, ld4 phisarazu, or 1 lycosidilith. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand to move along or to prevent a fall, cre 
ate a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 feet 
long and stick to the first creature that fails a save vs, 
breath weapon, wrap helpless or unconscious crea 
tures; entangle effect in a 10'x50'x20' cone (range 0), fire 


a lightweight ball that extends the range of the fear 
ability to 30 yards; every two rounds- glitterdust effect 
(range 40 yards); every three rounds- web effect (range 
50 yards). All webs have only a 50% chance to burn if 
attacked with fire. Can use a web ability while attack 
ing physically but not while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Invisibility detection is always active and is non 
magical, cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and 
effects that block divination magic. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

Phisarazu (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Phisarazu): AC 

-3; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 9+1; hp 46; THAC0 13; 
#AT 3; Dmg 2d6/ld8/ld8 (bite/sword/sword); SA 
spell-like abilities at 9th level, poison, webs, hiding; 
SD webs, harmed only by +1 or better weapons, 
immunities, invisibility detection (40-foot radius); SW 
suffer full damage from iron or silver weapons, sus 
ceptible to holy water; MR 50%; SZ M (7 1/2' long); 
ML champion (16); Int very (12); AL CE; XP 18,000; 
See Book IV, page 10. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will -alter self, darkness 
15' radius, invisibility, teleport zvithout error, cause fear 








Side Treks 


(in a single creature by touch); three times a day- for 
get, mirror image, telekinesis; always active- infravision 
(90-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld3 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The victim can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d6 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the victim devel 
ops a festering sore after 2d8 hours and loses one hit 
point and one additional hit point each day until he 
receives a neutralize poison spell. The opponent suffers 
a -3 penalty to Dexterity for 2d6 rounds. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, cre 
ate a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 feet 
long and sticks to the first creature that fails a save vs, 
breath weapon, wrap helpless or unconscious creatures, 
fire a lightweight ball that extends the range of the fear 
ability to 30 yards; every two rounds, entangle effect in a 
10'x30'x20' cone (range 0), or a glitterdust effect with a 
range of 30 yards. Can use a web ability while attacking 
physically but not while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Invisibility detection is always active and is non 
magical, cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and 
effects that block divination magic. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

Raklupis (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Raklupis): 

AC -6; MV 12 or 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 12+8; hp 68; 
THACO 7; #AT 3; Dmg 2dl0/ld8+8/ld8+8 (bite/long 
sword and Strength bonus/long sword and Strength 
bonus); SA spell-like abilities at 12th level, poison, 
webs; SD webs, affected only by +2 or better 
weapons, immunities, invisibility detection (60-foot 
radius); SW suffer full damage from iron weapons 
and half damage from silver weapons; MR 70%; SZ L 
(10' long); ML fanatic (18); Int genius (18); AL CE; 

XP 25,000; See Book IV, page 12. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- alter self, darkness 
15' radius, teleport without error, cause fear (in a single 
creature by touch) invisibility, telekinesis; three times a 
day- forget, mass charm (24 hit dice within 30 feet) 
mirror image, shape change, always active- infravision 
(120-foot range). 

Poison has an immediate onset time. If the opponent 
fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor and cannot 
move, think, or act. The opponent can attempt a Consti 
tution check every 2d6 hours to recover, but the venom 
inflicts an extra point of damage every hour. Even if the 


save succeeds, the opponent suffers a -3 penalty to Dex 
terity for 2d8 rounds. The victim also develops a fester 
ing sore and immediately loses one hit point and an 
additional hit point each hour. The victim cannot benefit 
from healing spells until the poison is neutralized. 

Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, cre 
ate a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 feet 
long and sticks to the first creature that fails a save vs, 
breath weapon, wrap helpless or unconscious creatures; 
entangle effect in a 10'x50'x20' cone (range 0), fire a 
lightweight ball that extends the range of the fear ability 
to 30 yards, glitterdust effect (range 60 yards), web effect 
(range 50 yards); three times a day create a waterproof 
globe. (When filled with liquid, a globe can be thrown 
10 yards; when filled with venom, a globe bursts when 
thrown, filling an area 15' in diameter with a poisonous 
mist. Creatures within the mist must save vs. poison or 
become blinded and mute for 3d4 turns and suffer 3d6 
points of damage. If the save succeeds, the victim still 
suffers 2d6 points of damage and has a -2 penalty on 
all missile attacks and a 20% chance of spell failure for 
ld4 rounds.) All webs have only a 25% chance to bum 
if attacked with fire. Can use a web ability while attack 
ing physically but not while using a spell-like ability. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Invisibility detection is always active and is non 
magical; cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and 
effects that block divination magic. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l damage. 

Spithriku (Tanar'ri, Spyder-Fiend, Spithriku) (2): 

AC 0; MV 18, Wb 15, Cl 9; HD 7+1; hp 36 each; 

THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 2d6 (bite); SA spell-like abili 
ties at 7th level, poison, webs, hiding; SD webs, 
harmed only by +1 or better weapons, immunities, 
invisibility detection (30-foot radius); SW suffer full 
damage from iron or silver weapons; MR 35%; SZ M 
(6' long); ML elite (14); Int average (10); AL CE; XP 
12,000 each; See Book IV, page 8. 

Notes: Spell-like abilities: at will- darkness 15' 
radius, teleport without error, cause fear (in a single crea 
ture by touch); three times a day- telekinesis; always 
active- infravision (90-foot range). 

Poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the 
opponent fails a save vs. poison he falls into a stupor 
and cannot move, think, or act. The victim can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d4 hours to 
recover. Even if the save succeeds, the victim suffers a 
-2 penalty to Dexterity for 2d4 rounds. 






Side Treks 


Web abilities: at will-shoot web up to 30 yards to 
provide a strand for movement or to prevent a fall, 
create a sticky glob that can be swung in a line 5 to 25 
feet long and sticks to the first creature that fails a 
save vs. breath weapon, wrap helpless or unconscious 
creatures; every three rounds, entangle effect in a 
10'x30'x20' cone (range 0), fire a lightweight ball that 
extends the range of the fear ability to 30 yards. Can 
use a web ability while attacking physically but not 
while using a spell-like ability. 

80% undetectable when motionless and in cover. 

Immune to electricity, nonmagical fire, poison, and 
webs. Half damage from cold, magical fire, and gas. 

Invisibility detection is always active and is non 
magical; cannot be foiled by nondetection spells and 
effects that block divination magic. 

Holy water inflicts ld6+l points of damage. 

Chaos Reigns 

Characters who enter a chaos gate or get dragged off 
by a spyder-fiend wind up in the queen's throne 
room. The throne room is a vast cavern nearly 200 
feet wide and somewhat longer. Its ceiling is 500 feet 
high in some places. Map E3 shows the area. 

From her throne, which is a rock rising from a lake of 
fire, the queen monitors the Steaming Fen and conducts 
her never-ending search for the Rod of Seven Parts. 

When she is not actively using her chaos gates to send 
her spyder-fiends to the Prime Material Plane, a contin 
uous stream of tanar'ri, yugoloths, and other planar 
creatures shuffles and slithers through the chamber 
while the queen manages her affairs. As the ruler of one 
of the infinite layers of the Abyss, the queen cannot give 
all her time and energy to the search for the Rod. 

As huge as it is, the throne room is only one small 
part of a gigantic castle carved from a mountain that 
would dwarf any peak on the Prime Material plane. The 
castle has rooms and passages that reach down into the 
briny, foul waters of the Steaming Fen's ocean and high 
into the air. A character lost in its passages could wander 
for a lifetime and not find his way out. Fortunately, this 
adventure concerns itself only with the throne room. 

The features of the throne room are as follows: 

1. Lake of Flame 

This pool of brackish salt water is forever covered 
with a flaming sheet of oil that rises up from its 
depths. The oxygen-starved flames produce a pall of 


choking smoke that reduce Dexterity and Constitu 
tion scores by -2 each unless the victim is immune to 
poison or does not need to breathe. Creatures swim 
ming in the lake suffer no damage from the flames 
during the first round of contact, but the flames inflict 
ld6 points of damage each round thereafter unless 
the creature is immune to nonmagical fire. Any dip 
into the lake leaves the swimmer coated with a dis 
gusting mix of oil, tar, and lumpy ash. 

The water is nearly 1,000 feet deep, with side vents 
that connect it to stygian depths of the ocean outside. 

2. Throne 

The "throne" is an irregular pillar of obsidian pol 
ished to a mirror shine by hundreds of slaves. The flat 
top rises 20 feet above the flames and is paved in 3 
inches of pure silver. 

The two smaller areas on the pillar's side are ledges 
that are only 5 feet above the lake of flame. The pur 
ple bars show where the queen prefers to create her 
chaos gates. The spyder-fiends she plans to send 
gather beneath the throne and the queen creates a 
gate that is 5,10, or 15 feet wide, at the positions 
shown on the map. The gate's size depends on how 
many fiends the queen wishes to send. 

If a character steps through a gate at the place 
where it opens of the Prime Material Plane, he 
instantly winds up here, but only if there is space for 
him. Non-fiends find travel through the gates disori 
enting, and are momentarily stunned when they step 
though. The character can neither attack the queen nor 
get out of the way so another character can step 
through the gate. Consequently, only one character 
can step through a 5-foot gate, two through a 10-foot 
gate, and three through a 15-foot gate. Additional 
characters remain at the other end. Note that a gate 
remains open only one round, so no additional charac 
ters can follow the hapless travelers through the gate. 

A visitor stepping through a gate finds himself with 
his back to the lake of flame and facing a wall of 
smooth, uncracked obsidian 15 feet high. The queen 
looms above. She is delighted to have visitors who 
have a part in the quest for the Rod, and her first 
action is to seize them in her tentacles. She can sense 
the Rod, and knows immediately upon touching a 
character if he carries part of the Rod or not. If an 
opponent doesn't have the Rod, the queen uses her 
suggestion power to induce the character to retrieve it 
for her by whatever means the character can manage. 
If the suggestion works (and the queen instinctively 




Side Treks 


knows whether it does), the queen sends the character 
back to his comrades. If it fails, she tries again until the 
suggestion works. If a visitor proves too troublesome, 
the queen grabs the offender with a tentacle and stuffs 
him under her body, where she can tear at him with 
her beak. If the queen feels at all endangered, she uses 
her destructive spells and her trident. If that doesn't 
cow the enemy, she summons two raklupises, who 
appear the next round. One fiend attacks the queen's 
opponents while the other gates in reinforcements. 

The attacking raklupis uses its entangle and mass charm 
abilities to help subdue the troublemakers. 

If the queen finds that a visitor has part of the Rod, 
she uses domination to force the character to give it up. 
If the character has at least three segments joined 
together, he cannot be compelled to give them up, 
and the queen attacks to kill instead. 

In most cases, however, the queen does not seek to 
slay the PCs. Instead, she sends them back to their 
comrades, where they can rejoin the hunt for the Rod, 
and perhaps find more pieces for her. The queen will 
even send back characters she hasn't enspelled if one 
of her spyder-fiends can successfully use forget on the 
others. If the queen captures parts of the Rod, she 
sends the largest piece back with the charmed charac 
ter so he can use it to locate the next bit of the Rod. (As 
a goddess of chaos, she can separate parts of the Rod 
so long as it has not been fully assembled.) Parts that 
the queen separates lose their glyphs (see page 9). 

Characters the queen sends back to the Prime Mater 
ial Plane arrive via a chaos gate. If the character is under 
the influence of one of the queen's suggestion spells, he 
radiates both a faint trace of evil and a strong aura of 
enchantment/charm magic. The character will do all 
he can to secure a piece of the Rod and present to the 
queen during the next month. (The DM must be pre 
pared to make sure the character acts appropriately if 
the player is unwilling to accept the role.) If the charac 
ter fails to accomplish the feat, the suggestion fades 
and the character is unharmed. Meanwhile, the charac 
ter is secretly convinced that getting the Rod for the 
queen is the best possible thing to do. He won't reveal 
his compulsion to anyone, however, as he suspects that 
each of his comrades is secretly a rival for the queen's 
favor. It might be best to explain this to the player in 
private once the character fails the saving throw. 

No character who returns from the throne room has 
any clear recollection of exactly what happened. The 
amnesia is either a side effect of the suggestion, or a 
result of a forget spell. 


3. Audience Area 

Official visitors, whether supplicant, messenger, 
diplomat, or prisoner, are brought here to stand 
before the queen. The floor is covered with a smooth 
sheet of seamless silver, just as the throne is. In times 
of war many of the queen's subjects gather here to 
view their queen and receive her orders. 

4. Wall of Gold 

A huge slab of gold, sixty feet square, is attached to 
this wall. The queen can command Miska's image to 
appear in its polished surface. Otherwise, the slab 
functions as a normal crystal ball. When Miska com 
munes with the queen (see Book IV), the queen usu 
ally invokes his image. 

5. Ramps 

These sloping passages lead to distant parts of the 
castle. Characters who flee the throne room via one of 
the ramps quickly lose their way in the tangled pas 
sages that lie beyond them. No passage in the castle 
leads directly to an exit or any other place of impor 
tance; they all meander randomly. Large groups of 
spyder-fiends usually make their entrances along one 
of the ramps, but that's just for show. They teleport to 
the area first. The queen's non-tanar'ri minions and 
guests usually require spyder-fiend guides to show 
them the route to the throne room. 

Characters lost in the castle's passages meet random 
groups of spyder-fiends every hour. Use the table 
from the Chaos Gates adventure, and roll ldlO+3. 

6. Balcony 

This large area is just one of a dozen similar areas 
that provide additional space for visitors. This one is 
100 feet above area 3. Others, all smaller than this 
one, dot the walls all round the chamber, though the 
other balconies are higher. If Miska ever wins his free 
dom, he appears at the highest balcony, and shows 
himself to his troops. 

7. Treasure Room 

The queen keeps just a small portion of the trea 
sures she has looted during her wars and raids here. 
The floor is heaped with masses of unsorted coins, 
gems, jewels, and magical items. There more than a 






Side Treks 


million coins heaped in drifts up to 8 feet high. A 
party working for a turn just grabbing as much trea 
sure as they could might gather the following: 3,000 
cp, 2,500 sp, 2,250 gp, 750 pp, 6 base 50 gp gems and a 
miscellaneous magical item of the DM's choice. A 
more careful party might gather twice the listed 
amount of any single type of coin in the same time 
(for example, 1,500 pp) or two magical items. A single 
character working for one round might gather about 
five percent of what a party could in a turn. 

The pool of water is about a 1,000 feet deep and 
connects to the lake of flame and to the ocean. Char 
acters trying to search might find a sea monster, but 
they won't find any treasure. 

The Queen of Chaos: AC -5; MV 6, Sw 9, Jet 24; 

HD 31; hp 140; THAC0 5; #AT 3; Dmg 2d6/2d6/ 
2d6+16 (tentacle/tentacle/ trident +5 and Strength 
bonus); SA spell-like abilities at 20th level, beak, con 
striction, breath weapon; SD harmed only by +3 or 
better weapons, immunities, regeneration; MR 70%; 
SZ G (about 25' tall); ML fearless (19); Int supra- 
genius (20); AL CE; XP 38,000. See Book IV, page 6. 

Notes: Can throw trident as a missile weapon 
(range 10/20/30). When she throws the trident, she 
can recover it immediately by pulling the rope 
attached to it. The rope is armor class -5, and it can 
sustain 50 points of damage before being severed. It 
saves as hard metal, and can only be harmed by magi 
cal attacks and slashing weapons of +1 or better 
enchantment. The rope is 75% resistant to magical fire. 

Tentacles can conduct melee with opponents up to 
60 feet away, and can grab opponents of up to size 
large. When the queen is grabbing, the opponent's 
effective armor class is 10, with adjustments for magic 
and Dexterity. The queen, however, suffers a -4 attack 
penalty and inflicts no damage if she hits. If the queen 
grabs a foe, she lifts the opponent off his feet and can 
stuff him under her body on the following round, free 
ing the grasping tentacle for further attacks. 

Opponents trapped under the queen's body are 
wrapped in one of the queen's other tentacles and 
constricted for 3d6 points of damage each round. Each 
of the queen's shorter tentacles can hold one opponent 
of size large or smaller; only one tentacle can constrict 
a single opponent. Beak can bite one creature trapped 
in the tentacles for 7d4 points of damage. 

Tentacles cannot be broken with a feat of Strength. 
The only way to escape is to sever the tentacle with an 
attack from a slashing weapon of +3 or better enchant 
ment or with tightly directed magical attacks such as 


magic missile or the ray version of Ottiluke's freezing 
sphere. The tentacles are armor class -7 and each 
requires 30 points of damage to sever. The tentacles are 
resilient; damage from any physical attack is reduced 
by -5 per attack, to a minimum of 0. Creatures in a ten 
tacle's grasp or trapped under the queen's body suffer 
a -3 penalty to attack and initiative rolls. 

Damage to the tentacles does not harm the queen. Sev 
ering a tentacle allows a creature in the tentacle's grasp 
to wiggle free of the queen's body, but the tentacle does 
not let go. It continues to constrict for 2d6 points of dam 
age each round until removed with a successful open 
doors roll. A severed tentacle becomes a little shorter, but 
is not otherwise harmed and can continue attacking. 

Spell-like abilities as a 20th level caster -shape 
change into human or merman form, mirror image, 
slow, chaos, magic missile, tongues, clairvoyance, telekine 
sis, and ventriloquism (at will); suggestion with a maxi 
mum duration of one month, polymorph other, death 
fog, shocking grasp, eyebite, and taunt (six times a day); 
chain lightning, domination, mass charm, and polymorph 
any object (three times a day); and symbols of discord, 
fear, hopelessness, and pain (each once a day). Can tele- 
pathically communicate with any chaotic creature 
that is at least semi-intelligent. 

Once per hour, can expel a cloud of noxious smoke 
(or ink when underwater). The cloud has one of the 
following effects as the queen chooses: darkness 15' 
radius, stinking cloud, or solid fog. Cloud effects func 
tion at 30th level. The darkness effect cannot be coun 
tered with light, but can be dispersed by a strong 
breeze or water current. The queen is immune to her 
own cloud effects. 

Three times an hour, can create a chaos gate. 

Immune to all forms of acid, electricity, and poison. 
Regenerates one hit point a turn, and regrow severed 
tentacles in 4dl2 hours. Immune to 1st- and 2nd-level 
illusion/phantasm spells. 

Special Equipment: giant trident+5. 

Good Samaritan 

Run this encounter shortly after the party has its 
first encounter with spyder-fiends that arrive through 
a chaos gate. They get a visit from Chodei-rin Ake, a 
ki-rin who happens to keep watch over the area 
where the party is traveling. Ake (pronounced Ah- 
KAY) is concerned about the characters and their new 
plaything (the Rod). Note that Chodei-rin (Coh-DAY- 
ee-rin) is his family name; his first name is Ake. He 
wants to be certain the characters know what they are 







ss 


dealing with and that they use the Rod responsibly. 

Ihe player text that follows assujftes the PCs are 
traveling overland and have eith^ptopped to camp 
for the night, if the party's situation is different, 
adjust accordingly. J| 

The day's exertions have left you feeling worn out 
as you slap the trail dust from your clothes and 
begin thinking about a little food and sleep. 

Your search for a sheltered spot stops abruptly 
when you spot an exquisite pavilion of brilliant 
silks flapping in the breeze. You're sure the huge 
tent was not there before. There doesn't seem to be 
anyone in sight. 

JP 

Ake used his ability to create soft goods to make 
the tent. We is inside, using invisibility and nondetec 
tion. If the PCs don't attack or flee, he uses his ability 
to create food and beverages for the party and a little 
something for their mounts. If the PCs approach the 
tent, they can smell the meal, which is splendid, from 
several paces away. A peek inside reveals: 

The ground under the tent is covered with a pris 
tine, straw mat. A low, lacquered table with one 
place setting and floor pillow for each member of 
your party stands on the mat. An extra place setting 
with a cushion almost 6 feet square lies at the head 
of the table. Steaming pots that fill the air with 
mouth-watering smells sit huddled on a charcoal 
fire. You still can't see anyone, but the table speaks. 

"My master, Chodei-rin Ake, welcomes you, 
brave adventurers, to his humble tent. Please 
remove your shoes and enter. Be easy, my master 
protects you." 

The talking table is the result of a magic mouth spell 
Ake has cast. If the party members seat themselves at 
the table, Ake becomes visible and kneels down at the 
head of the table. If they hesitate, he moves behind the 


• A horde of spyder-fiends attacked the last town the 
party passed through. They tore the place apart, 
board by board, and killed a lot of people. 

• Could it be possible that the characters do not know 
they are carrying what is one of the greatest artifacts 
of Law ever created? And that the legions of Chaos 
w'ill do just about anything to wrest it from them? 

Ake can give the party the Rod's basic history, and 
any other information the DM wishes to divulge 
about it. Ake knows Arquestan by reputation, and is 
familiar with several other vaati. 

• Ake wants to know what the party intends to do 
with the Rod. No matter what their plans, he warns 
them that their actions can cause great harm to others. 

If the party even hints that they might turn over the 
Rod to the Queen of Chaos, Ake exits to the Astral Plane 
and casts improved invisibility on himself (his nondetection 
spell is still running). He returns to cast a double 
strength chain lightning spell on the PCs. He gives them 
one chance to surrender, then hits them with a double 
strength ice storm. If the battle last more than three 
rounds, a hound of law that has been shadowing the 
PCs joins the fray on Ake's side. The ki-rin has no inten 
tion of letting the Rod fall into the queen's tentacles and 
he has no reservations about killing the PCs to get what 
ever segments they have, even if good characters are in 
the group. In Ake's view, the deaths of a few fools are 
insignificant when compared to the safety of worlds. 

if the PCs intend to keep the Rod, Ake wants them to 
promise they will use it carefully and sparingly. If they 
so promise, he offers them a handful of hairs from his 
mane. If the PCs don't understand the significance of 
this gesture, Ake explains that they will need the hair, 
along with the hair of a lawful evil creature, to make 
the magical glyphs necessary to assemble the Rod. He 
warns that the hair must be freely given. 

If the majority of the characters have good align 
ments, Ake puts no conditions on his gift of hair, except 
that they must promise to use it to help assemble the 
Rod. If the party does not contain a majority of good 



characters, Ake gives them his hair only if they swear 
an oat^> eveft anything other than 

'¦bl^fe'fheir oath, 
spell torctf)^i|^p^§^^ : :takcs 
InKn if the party breaks the oath. Because, jibe PCs are 
taking the oath freely, the wish is reasonable. The entire 
party must swear the oath and make the wish before . J 
Ake gives them the Irak. Should any character break the 


party (via the Astral Plane), and appears, with stamp 
ing hooves. He compliments the party on their caution 
and assures them he is no spyder-fiend. Jf the party 
still balks he launches directly into his lecture. 

has no dfesire tp discuss serious mattemb^er a meaL He 
uses h}S unseen servant to serve the food, and happily 
talkSabout art, philosophy, and cuismfcWhen Ake is 
ready to discuss business he mentions the following: 



oath, the offending character loses his hands. 

DM Note: If the party manages to steal Ake's hair 
in some fashion, they cannot make the glyphs 
because the hair wasn't freely given. If the party man 
ages to charm Ake, however, the hair is useful. Even 
when charmed, Ake demands that the party takes the 
oath as described above. The charm makes Ake will 
ing to give the party some hair, but it doesn't remove 
his sense of caution. 

If the party flees the encounter before looking into 
the tent, or never approaches the tent, Ake trots along 
behind them the next day, using invisibility and nonde 
tection. Eventually, Ake appears and speaks to the party. 

If the characters and Ake part on friendly terms, he 
gives them the tent and its furnishings, which are 
worth 5,000 gp intact. 

Chodei-rin Ake (Ki-rin): AC -5; MV 24, FI 48 (B); 

HD 12; hp 54; THACO 9 (6 with horn); #AT 3; Dmg 
2d4/2d4/3d6 (hoof/hoof/horn); SA spells and spell 
like abilities at 18th level; MR 90%; SZ H (13' long); 


ages for 2 to 12 people; create 32 cubic feet of soft 
goods or 18 cubic feet of wooden items (creations are 
permanent) or 200 pounds of metal items (duration is 1 
hour to ld4+l days, depending on hardness); create 
illusion with audial, visual, and olfactory components 
that lasts until disbelieved or magically dispelled; 
assume gaseous form, wind walk, summon weather, and 
call lightning. When performing magic related to the 
sky or air the results are double strength (including hit 
points and damage inflicted). Immune to 1st- and 2nd- 
level illusion/phantasm spells. Can enter the astral or 
ethereal plane at will. 

Spells: (9/8/7/6/5/4/3/2/1): 1st- cantrip, detect magic, 
gaze reflection, grease, magic missile (x2), shield, sleep, wall of 
fog*; 2nd- continual light (x2), detect evil, detect invisibility, 
invisibility**, know alignment, magic mouth, stinking cloud*; 
3rd- dispel magic (x2), fireball, lightning bolt*, nondetec 
tion**, slow, zvind wall*; 4th- clzarm monster, confusion, ice 
storm*, improved invisibility, polymorph other, stoneskin**; 

5th- cloudkill*, conjure air elemental*, feeblemind, wall of 
force; 6th- chain lightning*, death spell, invisible stalker*, true 



;enius (20); AL LG; XP nil, 


seeing; 7th-forcecage, prismatic spray, reverse gravity; 8th- 
niaze, Otto's irresistible dance; 9th- wish. 

* Air or sky spell. 

** Precast spell. 


lities-create nutritaoi 





Side Treks 


Waves of Chaos 

Each time the queen opens a chaos gate, there is a 
cumulative 20% chance that a wave of chaos sweeps 
over party's world. A wave of chaos always occurs 
after the fifth chaos gate is opened, and when the 
queen gets a segment of the Rod. 

When a wave hits, the terrain around the PCs 
warps and changes. It can become an entirely differ 
ent kind of terrain (mountains shifting to desert, or an 
ocean shifting to plains) or it can simply be odd (the 
grass is now blue or the sun turns green). The extent 
of the change is up to the DM; however, the change 
should not make it impossible for the PCs to continue 
the adventure (don't strand the party in the middle of 
an ocean unless you decide that their mounts turn 
into hippocampi), and the change overall is never for 
the better. Altered landscapes are more barren, less 
hospitable, and less productive. The weather, though 
not necessarily inclement, is never pleasant, but 
always murky, hazy, or dusty. Famine is inevitable 
unless the PCs can reverse the changes. The party 
notices the changes at the next dawn. Moreover, no 
one else notices the change. Every NPC the party 
meets firmly believes the world always has been 
exactly the way it is now. For them, it always has. The 
fabric of reality has changed. Only the Rod's influence 
allows the PCs to recall "true" reality. 

The PCs are aliens on their own world. They find it 
a little harder to survive in the new landscape. Each 
day, they must save vs. petrification or suffer ld6 
points of damage (they eat something that doesn't 
agree with them, find the air slightly toxic, the 
weather too hot, or the like). 

The Rod of Seven Parts can temporarily suppress the 
chaos. The Rod bearer can shift the terrain back to its 
normal state on a roll of 5 or less on ld20. Add the 
character's magical defense adjustment from Wisdom 
to the base score. For example, a character with a Wis 
dom of 18 must roll an 9 or less. For each segment that 
has been added to the Rod, the character adds one to 
the score. If the character in the above example had all 
segments joined together, his score would be 15. The 
Rod affects a radius equal to five yards per segment 
currently joined. If the roll succeeds, the terrain within 
the radius shifts back to its normal form. The party 
sees the land changing forms as they move along with 
the Rod, but other creatures do not. Characters who 
spend the whole day within the radius need not 
attempt a saving throw to avoid damage that day. The 
Rod bearer must make a new check each day, and can 


make only one check each day. Trying to stabilize the 
landscape does not affect attempts to restore beasts of 
chaos to their normal forms or vice versa. 

All the Rod bearer must do to shift the terrain is con 
centrate on setting things right. No command word is 
required. It is entirely possible that the Rod bearer could 
discover this power accidentally. Whenever the Rod 
bearer expresses concern over a terrain shift or com 
plains about the daily saving throw, the DM should ask 
for a ld20 roll. If the roll is successful, the bearer feels a 
surge of power as the terrain returns back to normal. 

When a party arrives outdoors in altered terrain, 
roll ldlO. On the roll of a 1, a pack of chaos beasts 
attacks. (If the PCs were traveling cross country when 
a wave strikes, the pack of beasts could be their own 
mounts.) The beasts attack to kill. Check for a chaos 
beast attack once each day in addition to normal 
checks for random encounters. 

Beasts of Chaos (5): AC 0; MV 18; HD 9; hp 40 
each; THACO 11; #AT 5; Dmg Id4/ld4/2d8/ld6/ld6 
(claw/claw/bite/tentacle/tentacle); SA rage; SW Rod 
can cause beast to revert to natural form; SZ M (4' 
long); ML average (10); Int animal (1); AL CN; XP 
4,000 each. See Book IV, page 2. 

Notes: Bright light causes rage-+2 bonus to 
attacks and initiative for as long as the beast is within 
a continuous light effect or for ld4+2 rounds after 
exposure to a bright flash. 

The Rod of Seven Parts can force a beast of chaos 
back to its normal form if the Rod can roll a 5 or less on 
ld20. Add the character's magical defense adjustment 
from Wisdom to the base score. Add one more to the 
base score for each segment that has been added to the 
Rod. The range is 5 yards per segment of the Rod. If a 
beast is shifted back to its normal form, it pauses in 
confusion for one round. The next round in flees at its 
maximum rate until the Rod bearer is out of sight. 

Into the Vastest Bog 

If a segment of the Rod teleports away from the 
party, the characters could have their work cut out for 
them when trying to get it back. Though the exact dis 
tance and direction to the segment's new location is 
determined randomly (see page 7), it is in the nature of 
the Rod to insinuate itself wherever it can promote law 
the most strongly. As a result, the Rod never teleports 
to a deserted locale; there always will some lawful 
creature nearby that can use and guard the Rod or a 
chaotic creature that the Rod can subvert. A random 






teleportation never places a segment in the hand of the 
queen or her agents. (How can a "random" event have 
so many restrictions? Such is the nature of artifacts.) 

In play, whenever the party loses a segment they 
will face a fight or a negotiation before they can get 
the segment back. A sample guardian for a lost seg 
ment is presented here. If the party loses pieces of the 
Rod more than once, the DM will have to devise addi 
tional adventures. One of the unused adventures 
from Book I will do in a pinch. 

The Vastest Bog is the local name for a dismal 
swamp choked with blighted cypress trees and bram 
bles with thorns sharper than stilettos. The local tales 
say that, except for the swarms of biting flies, nothing 
lives there but a dragon older than the hills and 
blacker than a moonless night. The tales are true. An 
island in the swamp's heart is the lair of Acydikeen, a 
great wyrm black dragon who spends most of his 
time snoozing, but occasionally flies or swims to hunt 
in the neighboring lands. 

DM Note: Obviously, the Vastest Bog will not 
always fit where a random roll says it has to go. Go 
ahead and put it wherever it fits and assume the lost 
segment teleports there, even if that means it has to 
travel more than 100 miles. 

Background 

No one has invaded Acydikeen's lair in a long time. 
Acydikeen chose the nondescript island near the cen 
ter of the swamp for his lair because it is difficult to 
reach. When the segment arrived in the dragon's lair, 
Acydikeen was initially suspicious. The odd, black 
stick had a wonderful color, to be sure, and was obvi 
ously magical. Still, the dragon's senses told him there 
was something wrong. When Acydikeen found himself 
absentmindedly tidying up his lair and stacking his 
horde into neat piles, he decided the segment had to 
go; however, the stick resisted blast after blast from his 
breath weapon, and the dragon grew alarmed. 

Searching his prodigious memory (even a creature 
with Acydikeen's intelligence accumulates quite a 
store of knowledge after living more than 1,200 
years), he recalled the story of the Rod of Seven Parts 
and what its value to the Queen of Chaos. Acydikeen 
has no desire to live on a world the queen has rav 
aged, and he has resolved to defend the Rod from any 
fiends that come calling for it. He'll let the PCs take 
the Rod away unmolested, if they don't try to steal 
anything from his lair. 

He keeps a close watch on the surrounding sky and 


swamp, and notes the party's approach. He is ready for 
the PCs when they arrive, but isn't looking for a fight. 

Tracking the Rod 

The bog is 20 miles wide and roughly circular. A party 
on foot would have to march for four days to reach the 
Acydikeen's island; traveling through the swamp's 
mud, sluggish streams, quicksand, and tangled vegeta 
tion is slow going. The party could make the same trip 
in two days by boat, or in a few hours by air. 

If the PCs have the next smallest piece of the Rod, 
the segment leads the characters right onto the island 
before the indication of direction fades. There is noth 
ing to show that this particular island is any different 
from any one of a dozen other small islands in the 
swamp, and a group who does not have a Rod seg 
ment to guide them would probably overlook it. 

If the party does not have the next smallest piece of 
the Rod, Qadeej makes himself known to the PCs and 
suggest they search the Vastest Bog. 

As the party begins exploring the island, Acydikeen 
makes a brief appearance, diving upon the party from 
high altitude and swooping low overhead. His inten 
tion is merely to scare the PCs, and impress them with 
his size and power. If the PCs attack, he performs a 
wingover (see the general information on dragons in 
the Monstrous Manual(tm) tome) and makes a snatch 
attack against one character. If the attack succeeds, 
Acydikeen carries the character high into the air and 
demands to know what the party is doing here. If the 
character refuses to answer Acydikeen's question, or 
tries to get free, Acydikeen squeezes him for claw 
damage (ld6+12 points). 

If the PC admits that they came for the Rod, the 
dragon tells him the party is welcome to it. He drops 
the PC at his comrades' feet from about 30 feet up, 
then climbs into his lair through the land entrance. 

After his initial encounter with the PCs, Acydikeen 
dives into the water west of the island and swims to 
his lair via a submerged tunnel. There Acydikeen 
awaits the party's arrival. 

The Island 

Acydikeen's island is a sandy hummock covered with 
the brambles and cypress trees for which the Vastest 
Bog is famous. The highest point on the island is about 
160 feet above water level. See Map E4 for details. To 
find the entrance to the lair, the party must either search 
the entire island, or search the marsh bottom were the 






Side Treks 


dragon dove into the water. In the first case, they can 
find the opening to the lair after about three hours of 
searching. The brambles on the island cut their clothing 
to shreds, and all the PCs' outer garb-except armor-is 
rendered useless unless it makes a successful saving 
throw vs. acid (the brambles aren't actually acidic, that's 
just the most appropriate column on the item saving 
throw table). Druids of level 3 or higher are unaffected. 

Tf the party decides to go swimming instead, they 
can find the underwater passage leading to the lair 
only if they can breathe water. If the character can 
breathe water, they still must roll a 1 or 2 on ld6 to 
find the entrance. (Elves and half elves find the 
entrance on a roll of 1-4.) 

Inside the Lair 

Acydikeen's cavern is dank and smelly; the air reeks 
of dragon and the carcasses the dragon has stored in 
area 5. Except where noted otherwise, the lair is unlit 
and has rough limestone walls dripping with seepage 
from the surrounding swamp. Ceilings throughout the 
lair about 50 feet high, too cramped to allow Acydi- 
keen to do much flying (see the individual area 
descriptions for details). Map E3 depicts the lair. 


A plain, flat boulder holds the object of your pre 
sent mission, a familiar-looking black stick. But 
you cannot ignore what lies in the rest of the cham 
ber. You see neat stacks of coins, some green with 
corrosion, other still shiny yellow, a pile of gems, a 
stack of arms and equipment.... 

"Take the accursed stick and go, before the 
queen discovers you are here. Do not try my 
patience mortals, or I shall feast on your flesh!" 

The hissing voice sounds like a thousand serpents. 
It seems your host is eager to have you leave. 

Acydikeen is not keen on having the PCs study his 
hoard. If the characters ask about the queen, Acydi 
keen relates the basic history of the Rod, and then 
commands them to leave once again. 

Any character can grab the segment, but pools of 
acid from Acydikeen's attempts to destroy the seg 
ment still cover the area. Unless the player specifi 
cally states that his character is watching his step, the 
character suffers 2d8 points of acid damage and his 
footgear is destroyed. 

3. The Main Chamber 


1. Land Entrance 

A sinkhole about 30 feet wide leads down to the 
cavern. The hole is funnel shaped and narrows to 
about 15 feet some 20 feet below the surface. The 
sides of the hole are bearded w'ith tree roots. The 
roots are very weak, however, and cannot support 
characters who weigh more than 200 pounds. It is 60 
feet from the surface to the cavern floor below. 

Acydikeen can enter the corridor leading away from 
here, but he can't unfurl his wings or fly. But neither 
can the PCs attack his flanks unless the use they 
alcoves, and the dragon is not likely to advance that far. 

2. Pedestal 

A natural table of rock holds the Rod segment; it is 
in easy reach, if the party can ignore what lies in the 
chamber beyond: 


A short walk from the entrance brings you to a 
chamber as big as the common room in a first-class 
inn. You notice the stone here is badly pitted and 
the air has an acrid smell. 


Acydikeen lies here, guarding his treasure. If the 
party makes a move to take so much as a copper, he 
blasts away with his breath weapon. He can make 
short flights in here, but cannot turn around in flight. 
He might, however, use his spider climb spell to walk 
on the walls or ceiling. 

The hoard includes 24,000 cp, 4,800 sp, 9,000 gp, 
3,000 pp, 25 base 50 gp gems, and any two magical 
items the DM deems appropriate. 

4. Water Entrance. 

This pool connects with the swamp via a passage 
way. 

5. Pickling Pool. 

Acydikeen uses this shallow pool of slightly acidic 
water to prepare carcasses for dining. The mass of 
putrefying flesh in there now creates a gut churning 
stench. 

Acydikeen (Dragon, Chromatic, Black): AC -7; 

MV 12, FI 30 (C), Sw 12; HD 20; hp 90; THAC0 3; #AT 
3; Dmg Id6+12/ld6+12/3d6+12 (claw/claw/bite); 


26 







SA spells as an 17th level caster, spell-like abilities, 
breath weapon, fear; SD detect invisible objects and 
creatures within 120 feet, immune to acid; MR 45%; 

SZ G (100' body); ML fanatic (16); Int average (10); AL 
CE; XP 20,000; MM/65. 

Notes: Breath weapon once every three rounds- 
line of acid 5' wide and 80' long; creatures within the 
line suffer 12d4+12 points of damage (save vs. breath 
weapon for half). 

Can kick with back feet for ld6+12 points of dam 
age; any creature struck must pass a Dexterity check 
or be knocked back ld6+12 feet. Creatures knocked 
back must save vs. petrification at -12 or fall down. 
Can buffet with wings ld6+12 points of damage; crea 
tures struck must pass a Dexterity check or fall down. 
Can slap up to 12 creatures with tail for 2d6+24 points 
of damage (roll a separate attack for each). Creatures 
struck must save vs. petrification at -12 or be stunned 
for ld4+l rounds. Can snatch an opponent of size L or 
less with a successful claw hit when flying. Can carry 
up to three snatched opponents at once. 

When dropping from a height of 30 feet or more can 
plummet and crush up to 12 opponents (roll a separate 
attack for each). The plummet inflicts 3d6+12 points of 
damage and creatures struck must save vs. petrification 
or be pinned under the dragon. If the dragon does not 
move off a pinned opponent, the creature must save vs. 
petrification again or continue to suffer damage. Causes 
fear in a 50-yard radius; all creatures of 1 hit die or less 
and all noncamivores of 20 hit dice or less flee in panic 
for 4d6 rounds unless part of a formed military unit. 
Creatures not automatically panicked save vs. petrifica 
tion at a -4 penalty. If the save fails, the creatures are 
stricken with fear and fight with a -2 penalty on attack 
and damage rolls for 4d6 rounds. 

Spell-like abilities (17th level): darkness in a 120' 
radius three times a day, corrupt 120 cubic feet of 
water once a day (this power destroys potions unless 
they roll a 15 or better on ld20), plant growth once a 
day, summon insects once a day, charm reptiles three 
times a day (similar to charm mammals but works on 
reptiles instead). 

Spells (9): 1st- alarm, color spray, charm person, erase, 
feather fall, hypnotism, jump, spider climb, spook. 


essary to set the party back on track or to impart 
information to the PCs. 

Arquestan is a member of the wendeam, the caste 
of lawful good vaati outcasts dedicated to monitoring 
the activities of the Queen of Chaos and the current 
status of the Rod of Seven Parts. At the age of 1,234 
years, he is a youngster by vaati standards, but he is 
among the most gifted members of his caste. 

Arquestan is a thoughtful man with impeccable 
manners and fastidious habits. He his genuinely con 
cerned for the party's welfare. He is not necessarily 
eager to see the Rod recovered, but would like to see 
Miska finally destroyed if the party can succeed. To 
Arquestan, the PCs are a group of heroes who deserve 
respect. It is Arquestan who sent the hounds of law 
the party may meet during their various adventures. 
Arquestan knows Naltecatl, the couatl from the 
Spelunking adventure, personally. Arquestan plays a 
vital role at the end of the adventure, when he carries 
the PCs off to Pandemonium in his wind chariot. 

Qadeej is a member of Bledrudeam, a caste of vaati 
wizards. He is among the oldest vaati, and even he 
has lost track of exactly how old he is. Qadeej is one 
of the seven vaati who originally forged the Rod of 
Seven Parts. During the centuries since the war ended, 
Qadeej has become disgusted with the vaati's decline 
and impatient with the seemingly endless stalemate 
that has prevailed since Miska's imprisonment. He 
has become convinced that the vaati can be great 
again only if they restart the war. Never mind that 
there is only a mere fraction of the race left. Just as the 
wendeam have become lawful good as a result of 
their long dedication to opposing the queen, Qadeej 
has become lawful evil after scheming for so long to 
light the fires of war. 

As one of the Rod's creators, Qadeej has a power that 
is very useful to the party; he is sensitive to the Law in 
the Rod, he knows where the segments of the Rod are, 
and he can sense the Rod being used just as the queen 
can. Vaati politics have prevented him from gathering 
the pieces himself, and he sees the PCs as the perfect 
tools to complete his work. Unlike Arquestan, Qadeej 
cares nothing for the party, and he ultimately hopes 
they will attempt to destroy Miska and fail. 


Mysterious Stra nger 

This section introduces Arquestan and Qadeej, two 
vaati who are for various reasons interested in the 
group's progress. These two NPCs serve as the DM's 
handymen; they can step in whenever it becomes nec 


The Two Wind Dukes in Play 

Arquestan hovers in the background throughout 
the entire adventure. He is ready to lend the PCs a 
hand, indirectly, whenever they need it. He uses his 
superior tracking ability to locate the party. Qadeej 




remains in the Vale of Aaqa, tracking the party's 
progress through his connection with the Rod. Both 
Arquestan and Qadeej make an appearance at the 
beginning of the Citadel of Chaos adventure. If 
things have gone well for the party, this might be the 
first time the PCs meet either of them. 

Arquestan: often poses as Arquesta, a singer and 
actress with a troupe of performing white rats (actu 
ally hounds of law). Arquestan uses his hat of disguise 
to pull off the charade. The PCs are likely to see 
"Arquesta" pretty much anytime they return to civi 
lization after going after a segment of the Rod: 

You have come upon a knot of children and towns 
folk gathered around an unusually tall, but hand 
some woman in a turban and a loose robe. A white 
rat perched on her shoulder stands up on its hind 
legs and bows to the crowd. "Applause, please," 
the woman's asks in a pleasant voice. The audience 
claps politely and the rat responds my diving off 
the woman's shoulder, and landing headfirst in a 
bucket of water at her feet, turning somersaults all 
the way. As the woman bends to help the rat out of 
the bucket, six more white rates begin performing 
on a rickety contraption made from string and 
sticks. You see rats walking a tightrope using just 
their front feet, like acrobats doing handstands, 
rats on trapezes, and rats performing tumbling 
tricks on a seesaw. Overall, they are the most 
remarkable set of rodents you have ever seen. 

A true seeing spell reveals the rats and the woman 
in their actual forms, A druid can tell the rats aren't 
normal creatures, but can't tell what they really are. 

After the performance, the woman collects a few 
coins from the crowd. If the PCs keep an eye on her, 
they see her pack up her rats and her equipment and 
give her entire take to a couple of scrawny urchins. 

If the party ignores the trained rat show and moves 
on, they witness a similar scene in just about every 
town they visit. 

Arquestan is not a good liar, and if the party asks 
"Arquesta" what she is up to she tells them she's 
watching them because they have enemies they don't 
even suspect. Once polite contact is established, 
Arquestan reveals the following to the PCs: 

• He is a Wind Duke, a member of the race that cre 
ated the Rod of Seven Parts. 


28 




• If the PCs are bent upon assembling the Rod , he can 
assist in small ways. 

If the PCs begin asking questions, Arquestan has 
some answers for them: 

• The wolf-headed spiders are a rare type of tanar'ri 
called spyder-fiends. They serve the Queen of Chaos, 
who seeks to take the Rod from the PCs. 

• The Rod is an artifact of law, but it carries the taint 
of Miska the Wolf Spider, the leader of the spyder- 
fiends and the general and lover of the queen, The 
queen can sense the ebb and flow of chaos when the 
part uses the Rod. Whenever the Rod operates, a little 
of Miska's essence rubs off on the wielder, and the 
spyder-fiends can locate the character, like a hound 
tracks a scent, for a short time. 

• The Rod makes the wielder into a Champion of 
Law. The more parts are added to the Rod, the more 
lawful the wielder becomes. 

• Anyone who can cast wizard spells can create spe 
cial glyphs that keep the Rod from flying apart when 
two segments are brought together. Arquestan isn't a 
wizard, so he doesn't know what they are. He under 
stands, however, that the glyphs are not particularly 
difficult to discover. 

• The alterations in the world (chaos waves) are a conse 
quence of the queen's growing influence. The changes 
will remain until the PCs break the queen's grip on the 
world. If they slay Miska, the queen's power will be bro 
ken. They can also break the queen's grip by sending the 
Rod to a new world. The best way to do that is to assem 
ble the Rod completely and invoke is greatest power- 
restoring life. The Rod will shatter and move to a new 
world, forcing the queen to search for it all over again. 

• Arquestan is busy keeping track of both the party and 
various spyder-fiends right now, though he tries to 
check up on the party' every few days. There is no reli 
able way to contact him should the party wish to do so. 
However, if the party leaves some sign behind when 
they leave an area, perhaps a note bearing the letter 
"A" or the letter "A" scratched into the ground at a 
campsite, Arquestan will know the party wants to talk. 

Several of the major adventures begin with a visit from 
Arquestan if the party does not have the segment of the 


Rod that normally would get them started. In these cases, 
Arquestan approaches the party himself. If the party is in 
the wilderness, he arrives on his wind chariot, with his 
hounds of law in their will o' wisp forms. If the party is 
in a town or city, Arquestan uses his hat of disguise to pose 
as a messenger. He invites the PCs to meet him at some 
isolated locale, then arrives on his chariot: 

A whirlwind is approaching. A tall, silvery funnel 
of wind zips over the treetops with blinding speed. 

It is an unusual whirlwind, not only because of its 
silvery color. The funnel should be tearing the trees 
up by the roots, but hardly a leaf stirs. 

The savage-yet-gentle-whirlwind settles nearby, 
kicking up no more dust than a wagon coming to a 
halt. The wind fades, revealing a tall man standing 
upon a silvery disc. 

As the man steps off the disc, you notice that his 
skin is black as ebon}' and that he is naked except 
for a belt from a few weapons hang. His physique 
is excellent, but his state of undress also reveals 
that the term "man" is not quite appropriate. The 
figure is utterly sexless. 

After introducing himself, Arquestan goes on to 
explain that he has a solution to the party's difficulty. 
See the individual adventures for more details. 

Qadeej: spends as little time as possible dealing 
with the party. If the PCs are unable to proceed 
because they don't have the segment of the Rod that 
will lead them to the next piece, Qadeej dispatches a 
noble djinn to deliver them a message: 

A giant of a man with a bald head and gold ear 
rings approaches and greets you with a bow. "My 
master, Qadeej of Aaqa, sends his regards, and 
suggests that a meeting anon would be most bene 
ficial to you. Get you to a place secure from prying 
eyes, and my master will come." With that he van 
ishes, leaving you and several onlookers gaping. 

The next time the party is alone, Qadeej pops in, 
courtesy of his staff of the magi. He is both gruff and 
terse. He tells them he is Qadeej of Aaqa, and that he 
lias information they need. Then he tells them how to 
go about finding the next segment. He does not tell 
them exactly where it is or what guards it, because he 
doesn't know. All he knows is how far the next segment 






Side Treks 


is and the direction in which it lies. If the party asks 
questions, he irritably responds with the following: 

• "I have studied the artifact thou calls the Rod of Seven 
Parts since before your most ancient ancestor was bom, 
mortal, for I am a Wind Duke of Aaqa. Follow my direc 
tions and locate the next piece, if thous desire, or do not. 
No Champion of Law would leave the job undone." 

• "How do I know where it is? Through magic I could 
not help thee understand in a thousand of thy lifetimes." 

Be careful not to overuse Arquestan and Qadeej. 
They are intended to help you, the DM, move things 
along when the party comes to an impasse. Neither 
Wind Duke will accompany the party on an adven 
ture or recover a segment of the Rod for the party 
unless the text for an adventure specifically says so. 

Arquestan, v, R12: AC -2 (natural armor and Dexter 
ity bonus); MV 12, FI 12 (A); hp 72; TFIACO 9 (8 when 
employing missiles), (7 with Strength bonus), (3 with 
Strength bonus and weapon +4); #AT 3/2+1; Dmg 
ld6+9 (short sword +4 and Strength bonus)/ld4+8 (dag 
ger +4 and Strength bonus); SA ranger abilities, spells as 
a 5th level caster; SD immunities; SZ M (7 1" tall); ML 
fearless (19); AL LG; XP Nil; See Book IV, page 15. 

Notes: Can influence natural animals (save vs. rods 
at a -4 penalty negates), track with a base score of 17, 
and can track creatures that are flying or have tele 
ported; receives a +4 attack bonus and a -4 reaction 
penalty vs. spyder-fiends. Immune to aging, +2 sav 
ing throws, armor class, and ability check bonus vs. 
all forms of air-based attacks, -2 points per die of 
damage from air-based attacks, air elemental crea 
tures will not attack or approach within 5 feet unless 
attacked first; +2 to saving throws and -1 to each die 
of damage vs. all chaotic attacks (vaati blade). 

Spell-like abilities at 12th level- control temperature 
10' radius, dust devil, gust of wind, and feather fall, all at 
will. Can use gust ofzvind to double flying speed for 
one round. 

S 18/97, D 15, C 16,115, W 14, Ch 15. 

Personality: Dedicated, trustworthy, friendly. 

Spells (2/2/1): 1st- entangle, pass without trace; 2nd- 
charm person or mammal, goodberry; 3rd- summon insects. 

Ranger Abilities: MS 77%, HS 94%. 

Special Equipment: Short sword +4 vaati blade, dagger +4 
vaati blade, long bow and 20 sheaf arrows +2, portable hole, 
ring of shooting stars, oil of slipperiness, potion of fire giant 
strength, iron bands ofBilarro, hat of disguise, wind chariot. 


Hound of Law: AC -6 or (0 in dog form); MV FI 18 
(A) (15 in dog form); HD 8+2; hp 41; THACO 13; #AT 
0 (1 in dog form); Dmg nil (2d4+2 in dog form); SA-5 
to opponents' surprise rolls, become astral, ethereal, 
or invisible at will, tracking, +1 attack roll bonus vs. 
chaotic creatures; SD +1 to own surprise rolls, detect 
invisible creatures 50% of the time, chaotic creatures 
suffer -1 attack penalty and a -1 penalty to each die 
of damage, spell immunity; MR 30%; SZ T (V tall) 
(size M in dog form); ML fearless (19); Int average 
(10); AL LN; XP 3,000; See Book IV, page 3. 

Notes: Base tracking score is 16; ignores vision-based 
penalties. Can follow a creature that has teleported if it 
succeeds with a tracking roll at a -2 penalty (the only 
other penalties that apply are one from the trail's age). 

Immune to all spells except protection from evil, 
magic missile, and maze. 

Qadeej, v, Abjl3: AC 0 (natural armor. Dexterity 
bonus, and cloak of displacement); MV 12, FI 12 (A); hp 
28; THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (staff); SA spells; SD 
immunities; SZ M (6' 9" tall); ML fearless (19); AL LE; 
XP 20,000; See Book IV, page 15. 

Notes: Immune to aging, +2 saving throws, armor 
class, and ability check bonus vs. all forms of air- 
based attacks, -2 points per die of damage from air- 
based attacks, air elemental creatures will not attack 
or approach within 5 feet unless attacked first. 

Spell-like abilities at 13th level- control temperature 
10' radius, dust devil, gust ofzvind, and feather fall, all at 
will. Can use gust of wind to double flying speed for 
one round. Spell turning once a day, reveal truth (simi 
lar to dispel magic, but works only on illusions and 
deceptions), and calm air (quiets all forms of wind 
and negates all sound-based attacks within a 30-foot 
radius for 36 rounds) three times a day. Gains a +1 
saving throw vs. abjuration magic and opponents suf 
fer a -1 saving throw penalty vs. his abjuration magic. 
Immune to lst-level illusion/phantasm spells. 

S 15, D 16, C 13,119, W 18, Ch 16. 

Personality: Driven, conceited, crafty. 

Spells (6/6/6/5/5/39:1st- protection from evil, sleep, magic 
missile (x3), unseen servant; 2nd- detect invisibility, ESP, 
forget, protection from cantrips, ray ofenfeeblement, summon 
swarm; 3rd- clairaudience, dispel magic (x2), flame arroiv, 
lightning bolt, suggestion; 4th- detect scrying, emotion, fire 
shield, ice storm, minor globe of invulnerability; 5th- Bigby's 
interposing hand, cloudkill, dismissal, domination, hold mon 
ster; 6th- anti-magic shell, globe of invulnerability, repulsion. 

Special Equipment: Staff of the magi (13 charges), ring 
of mind shielding, cloak of displacement. 







Dragonfire is played with 25 tiles or cards. There are 
six sets of four tiles, plus one unique tile. The unique 
tile is the Dragonfire tile, and the sets of four are 
most commonly swords, crowns, rings, ships, stal 
lions, and shields. The Dragonfire tile is red, and 
each set of four tiles has two yellow tiles and two 
green tiles. 

Three or more people can play; a dealer/banker is 
also required. The game is a favorite at the Golden 
Cockatrice (see Book I). 

Starting the Game 

Each player begins by placing a standing wager. 

The house may require a minimum or maximum 
amount, or both. A player's standing wager cannot be 
changed except at certain times during the game. A 
player can withdraw his standing wager anytime, but 
must leave the game if he does so. 

Once each player has made a standing wager, the 
dealer shuffles the tiles and all the players draw to see 
who goes first. The person who draws the highest tile 
plays first. The ranks, from highest to lowest are: 
Dragonfire, swords, crowns, rings, ships, stallions, 
and shields. Between tiles of the same rank, yellow 
tiles outrank green tiles. In case of a tie, players draw 
again from the remaining tiles. 

Once the first player is selected, play proceeds 
clockwise (to the dealer's left) around the table. 

The dealer starts the game by shuffling the tiles and 
arranging them, face down, in a 5 x 5 formation. 

Playing the Game 

The first player places a bet, which cannot exceed 
the value of the player's standing wager. The stand 
ing wager itself is not used in normal play. After the 
player bets, he indicates two tiles for the dealer to 
turn over. 

• If the two tiles are the same suit, the player wins the 
amount he bet. 

• fr-tfWtwo tiles are the same suit and color, the 
player wins twice the amount he bet. 

• If the tiles do not match at all, the player loses his bet. 

• If the player won, the dealer picks up the 10 tiles in 
the horizontal rows containing the winning tiles, 
shuffles them, and returns them to the formation. If 
the tiles are in the same row, the dealer shuffles the 
vertical columns containing the tiles instead. No tiles 
are left face up. 



• If the player lost, the first tile is turned over and the 
second tile is left face up. 

The next player now bets, subject to the same rules 
as the first player was, and indicates one tile for the 
dealer to turn over. 

• If the tile is the same suit as a tile that already is 
face up, the player wins the amount he bet. If the tile 
is the same suit and color as a tile that already is face 
up, the player wins twice the amount he bet. 

• If the tile does not match a tile that already is face 
up, the player must indicate a second tile for the 
dealer to turn over. 

• If the second tile is the same suit as the first tile the 
player turned over, the player wins the amount he 
bet. If the tile is the same suit and color as the first tile 
the player turned over he wins twice his bet. 

• If the second tile the player turned over matches a 
tile that Was face up at the beginning of the turn, the 
player loses his bet. As in the case of any match, the 
dealer then picks up all the tiles in every row that 
contains a matching tile, shuffles them, and returns 
them to the formation. If there are matching tiles in 
the same row, the vertical columns containing those 
tiles are reshuffled as well. 

• If the second tile matches none of the face up tile; 
the player loses his bet, and the first tile the player 
selected is turned over again. 

Anytime a player wins by matching two tiles, he 
can opt to continue playing by indicating another t 
for the dealer to turn over. If the player does not wish 
to continue, his turn ends and all the tiles in the rows 
containing the winning tiles are reshuffled and 
returned to the formation. If there are winning tiles in 
the same row, the columns containing those tiles are 
reshuffled along with the rows. 



If the player wishes to continue, he must bet all of 
his winnings from his current turn, plus his standing 
wager. He then selects another tile. 

• If the selected tile matches the winning pair, the 
player collects five times the amount he risked. 

• If the selected tile does not match the winning pair, 
the player loses the entire amount he risked. No tiles 
are turned over (unless there are eight or more tiles 



face up; see below). 

• If the selected tile matches a tile that was face up at 
the beginning of the turn (other than one of the two 




Dry bonfire 


winning tiles), the player loses the entire amount he 
risked and the turn ends. The rows containing the 
matching tiles are reshuffled and returned to the for 
mation. If there are matching tiles in the same row, 
the columns containing those tiles are reshuffled 
along with the rows. 

• Whenever a player decides to search for a third tile, 
the other players at the table can decide to risk their 
standing wagers, too. If they decide to do so, they win 
four times the amount they risked if the acting player 
finds the third tile; otherwise they lose their standing 
wagers. The other players cannot bet that the acting 
player won't find the third tile; they bet that he can or 
they don't bet at all. 

• Anytime a player wins or loses his standing wager, 
he must make a new one to remain in the game. The 
new wager does not have to be the same amount as 
the old one, but it must fall within the limits set by 
the house for the game. 

• A player who has successfully located a third tile 
cannot search for a fourth tile; his turn ends. 

• If all four tiles in a row or column are showing after 
a player finds a pair, but before the player searches 
for a third tile, the player must decline to search for 
the third tile. 

Anytime the Dragonfire tile is turned face up, the 
active player loses his entire wager and his standing 
wager. In addition, every other player loses half his 
standing wager. If a player has an odd number of 
chips, the loss is rounded up. 

The player's turn ends. The column containing the 
Dragonfire tile is removed and reshuffled, along with 
any row that contains at least one face-up tile. No tiles 
remain face up after the reshuffling. 

Anytime there are eight or more tiles face up in the 
formation at the end of a player's turn the entire for 
mation is reshuffled, leaving no tiles face up. 

Anytime a player wins or loses part of his standing 
wager, he can increase or decrease his standing wager 
according to the limits set by the house. 

Play can continue indefinitely. 

Players may not keep written notes or discuss the 
locations (or probable locations) of hidden tiles dur 
ing the game. 


Dragonfire Within 
an AD&-D(r) Campaign 

Dragonfire can be played with a regular deck of play 
ing cards. Use the joker (Dragonfire), aces (swords), 
kings (crowns), queens (rings). Jacks (ships), 10s (stal 
lions), and 9s (shields). The suits can represent colors 
as follows: yellow (spades and clubs) and green 
(hearts and diamonds). 

For a better fantasy atmosphere, use Spellfire(tm) 
cards. Use a dragon card, event card, or rule card for 
the Dragonfire tile. Use heroes for swords, artifacts 
for crowns, magical items for rings, wizards or wiz 
ard spells for ships, clerics or cleric spells for stallions, 
and allies for shields. Use each card's level to repre 
sent color; within a suit, the card with even levels are 
yellow and cards with odd levels are green. 

Character Skills & Magical Items in a Dragonfire Game 

A character with the gaming proficiency can 
attempt to see a tile before it is turned over during his 
turn. To do this, the character must indicate a tile and 
roll an ability check vs. half his Intelligence score. 

(The character's gaming skill makes the opportunity, 
but it is the character's brain that has to do the work.) 
If the roll succeeds, the character gets to see the tile, 
but cannot show it to anyone else. If he doesn't like 
the tile, he can play another one instead. If the roll 
fails, the tile is turned over normally. A character can 
attempt to peek at only one tile per turn. If the roll is a 
17-20, the character is caught cheating. 

Characters without the gaming proficiency also can 
attempt to use their Intelligence scores to peek at a 
tile as described above, but only once per game. 

There is no chance for the character to be caught 
cheating, however. 

There are several magical items and spells that 
players might try to use to improve their chances at 
winning. No establishment tolerates spellcasting at 
the Dragonfire tables, so spellcasters must be discreet. 






tradem. 


1145Xxxxl903 




































































Book IV 


A2NJTEKJ 


Beast of Chaos. 

Hound of Law. 

Miska the Wolf-Spider 
The Queen of Chaos .. 

Spyder-Fiends. 

Kakkuu. 

Spithriku. 

Phisarazu. 

Lycosidilith. 

Raklupis. 


Table of Contents 

.2 Vaati. 

.3 Wergadeam 

. 4 Houdeam .. 

.6 Haikjadeam 

.7 Trygrideam 

.8 Kheirdeam. 

.8 Vindeam ... 

.10 Bledrudeam 

.10 Wendeam .. 

.12 


13 

14 
14 
14 

14 

15 
15 
15 
15 


Credits 

Design: Skip Williams 
Editing: David Eckelberry 

Cover Design: Stephen A. Daniele and Greg Kerkman 
Cover Illustration: R. K. Post 

Interior Illustrations: Glen Michael Angus, Arnie Swekel, Phillip Robb, Jim Roslof, and Erol Otus 

Graphic Design: Greg Kerkman 
Cartography: Diesel, David Martin, and Arnie Swekel 
Typesetting: Tracey L. Isler 
Art Director: Stephen A. Daniele 


Playtesters: Phil Anderson, Dave Conant, Shawn Costa, Scott Douglas, and Jon Pickens 


ADfcD, ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, and the TSR logo are registered trademarks owned by I SR, 
Inc. PLAYER'S OPTION is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. All TSR characters, character 
names, and the distinctive likenesses tliereot are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 

(c)1996. ISR, Inc. All rights reserved. This product is protected under the copyright laws of the United 
States of America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of the material or artwork con 
tained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR,Inc 

Random House and its affilate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc. Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United King 


dom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby market by regional distributors. 


TSR, Inc 

201 Sheridan Springs Road 
1 ake Geneva 
Wl 53147 
U.S.A. 



ISR Ltd. 
120 Church F.nd 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge, CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


1145XXX1504 






















Climate/Terrain: 

Any 

Frequency: 

Very rare 

Organization: 

Solitary or Pack 

Activity Cycle: 

Any 

Diet: 

Carnivore 

Intelligence: 

Animal (1) 

Treasure: 

Nil 

Alignment: 

Chaotic neutral 

No. Appearing: 

1 orld6+l 

Armor Class: 

0 

Movement: 

18 

FIit Dice: 

9 

THACO: 

11 

No. of Attacks: 

5 

Damage/Attack: 

Id4/ld4/2d8/ld6/ld6 

Special Attacks: 

Rage 

Special Defenses: 

Immunities 

Magic Resistance: 

30% 

Size: 

Small to Huge (3' to 15') 

Morale: 

Average (10) 

XP Value: 

3,000 

Flyer 

4,000 


Beasts of chaos are creatures that have been transformed 
into unnatural monsters by the waves of entropy that flow 
over the land when the Queen of Chaos focuses her atten 
tion on a world. Most beasts of chaos are man-sized. If the 
transformed creature was tiny or small, its size increases 
one step. If the creature was large, huge, or gargantuan, its 
size decreases one step. 

A beast of chaos looks like a bizarre parody of the crea 
ture it once was. It becomes scabrous or mangy, with 
drooping flesh and a foul smell. Its color turns a disgust 
ing purple mottled with veins of brown and speckled with 
bits of its original color. It has misshapen appendages, a 
sagging snout or proboscis, a toothy maw, and horns or 
tentacles. 

Combat: Beasts of chaos attack with their claws or hooves, 
a bite, and their horns or tentacles. Their tactics generally 
reflect their original forms, but they don't attack in a coor 
dinated fashion. 

All beasts of chaos are immune to hold, slow, haste, fear, 
and all forms of magical confusion (including the chaos 
spell). 

Beasts of chaos have superior senses of smell and hear 
ing but tend to be nearsighted and colorblind. Bright light 
hurts their beady eyes and enrages them, giving them a 
+2 bonus to attacks and initiative. Bright light includes 
sunlight (not common in chaos-twisted landscapes), con 
tinual light spells, and similar magical flashes. If a light 
effect is continuous, a beast of chaos is enraged for as long 
as it remains in the area of effect. If the light effect is an 
instantaneous burst, the beast is enraged for ld4+2 
rounds. 

The Rod of Seven Parts can reverse the process that trans 
formed the creature. A character with the Rod can accom 
plish the feat on a roll of 5 or less on ld20. Add the char 


acter's magical defense adjustment from Wisdom to the 
base score. For example, a character with a Wisdom of 18 
must roll an 9 or less. For each segment that has been 
added to the Rod, the character adds one to the score. If 
the character in the example had all seven segments 
joined together, his score would be 15. If the roll succeeds, 
all beasts of chaos within range revert to heir normal 
forms. The range is 5 yards per segment of the Rod. 

A beast of chaos that is shifted back to its normal form 
pauses for one round. The next round it flees at its maxi 
mum rate until the Rod bearer is out of sight. The retrans 
formation is permanent. 

Habitat/Society: Beasts of chaos tend to cling to whatever 
basic form of organization they had. Members of a beast 
of chaos pack tend to stick together out more out of habit 
than anything else. 

Beasts of chaos roam aimlessly, having no fixed territo 
ries; when possible, they seek out terrain that is similar to 
their original homes. Because the terrain often changes 
along with the beasts, the creatures often have to wander 
a long time before they find an area to their liking. 

Ecology; Beasts of chaos can be formed from any creature 
with an intelligence of at least animal (1), but no higher 
than semi (2-4). No creature with 14 or more hit dice can 
become a beast of chaos, no matter what its intelligence is. 
A creature is entitled to a save vs. spells to resist the trans 
formation. 

Beasts of chaos are sterile, and they concern themselves 
mainly with eating. A landscape populated by beasts of 
chaos eventually becomes desolate as the beasts age and 
die. A beast of chaos usually survives only four or five 
years, though they can live much longer than that if pro 
tected from mishaps and predators. As it is, beasts of 
chaos tend to survive just long enough to kill all the large 
game in the area, disrupting the food chain entirely. 

Beasts of chaos produce nothing useful. Their tough 
hides quickly rot when the beasts are killed. Attempts to 
tan their skins simply destroy the rotten hides. Likewise, 
their teeth, bones, and horns become as soft and brittle as 
unbaked clay when the beasts die, and they are useful nei 
ther as tools nor containers. Their meat is foul and toxic. 
Even a single mouthful causes the creature consuming it 
to roll a saving throw vs. poison. If the saving throw is 
successful, the creature suffers Id 10 points of damage 
after an onset time of ld4 rounds. If the saving throw fails, 
the creature suffers 2dl0 points of damage reach round 
for 2d6 rounds. Creatures that are immune to poison can 
feast on beast of chaos flesh, and spyder-fiends consider it 
a delicacy. A neutralize poison spell applied before the toxin 
takes effect prevents damage, but each mouthful requires 
a new saving throw. 




The hound of law is a form of will o'wisp the vaati use as 
trackers, guards, and messengers. In its natural form, a 
hound of law is a faintly luminous sphere that sheds no 
more light than a firefly. The sphere can produce buzzing 
sounds by vibrating rapidly; this allows them to speak in a 
limited fashion. 

Hounds of law can assume the forms of normal animals, 
which allows them to go about their missions unobtrusively. 
Hounds in animal form seem trim and muscular, but they can 
appear to be well-groomed, filthy, or anything in between. 


Combat: Hounds of law cannot attack in their natural 
forms. When assuming animal forms, they can employ the 
form's attacks. Hounds in animal form have better ratings 
than normal animals. 


Form 

AC 

MV 

#AT 

Dmg 

Dog 

0 

15 

1 

2d4+2 

Elephant 

0 

18 

5 

2d8+2/2d8+2/2d6+2/ 

2d6+2/2d6+2 

Hawk 

0 

3, FI 36 (C) 

3 

Id3/ld3/ld2 1 

Horse 

1 

21 

2 

ld6+2/ld6+2 

Panther 

0 

15, Cl 3 

3 

ld4+2/ld4+2/ld6+2 

Rat 

1 

18, Sw 6 

1 

1 

Shark 

0 

Sw 27 

1 

3d4+2 

Snake 

0 

12, Sw 12 

2 

Id2/ld6 2 


'Can dive for a +2 attack bonus 

2 Can constrict after the first hit for ld8 points of damage each 
round. 


A hound can assume a new form once a round; each 
change takes only a few seconds, and the hound is free to 
move and attack after changing form. If a hound reverts to 
its normal form and remains in it for ld4 rounds, it regains 
10-60% of any damage it suffered in its previous form. 


A hound of law can move to the Astral or Ethereal plane 
or become invisible at will. A hound on Ethereal or Astral 
plane can materialize and attack creatures on the Prime 
Material, imposing a -5 penalty on opponents' surprise rolls. 

Hounds of law are unaffected by all spells except protec 
tion from evil, magic missile, and maze. Hounds of law gain a 
+1 attack bonus when fighting chaotic creatures, and chaotic 
creatures suffer a -1 attack penalty and a -1 penalty to each 
die of damage inflicted (minimum one point per die). 

A hound's keen senses give it a +1 bonus to its own surprise 
rolls and allow it to detect invisible creatures 50% of the time. 
A hound can track creatures by sight and scent; use the rules 
for the tracking proficiency from Chapter 5 of the PHB. The 
hound's base tracking score 16, and it ignores vision-based 
penalties (such as poor lighting or attempts to cover tracks). 

If a creature a hound is tracking uses flight or teleportation 
magic of any kind, the hound can use the residual magic 
energies to automatically follow the creature. To determine 
success, make a tracking roll at a -2 penalty; adjustments for 
the trail's age apply, but other adjustments do not. If the roll 
fails, it cannot follow the creature. If the creature the hound 
is following died or was entrapped in a solid object or on 
another plane as a result of a teleport, a hound that has made 
a successful tracking roll senses the disaster and need not 
follow. When following a teleporting creature, a hound can 
carry 250 pounds of additional weight. 

Habitat/Society: Hounds of law are found only in the com 
pany of vaati. Lone hounds are performing some mission 
for their masters. 


Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 
Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 
Magic Resistance: 
Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 


Any 
Carnivore 
Average (8-10) 

Nil 

Lawful neutral (Lawful good) 
1 orld6+l 
6 

FI 18 (A) 

8+2 

13 

See below 
See below 
See below 
See below 
30% 

T (1' globe) 

Fearless (19) 

3,000 


Ecology: Hounds of law come from a breeding program 
developed by the vaati. The few hounds of law bred by vaati 
wanderers (the wendeam) are lawful good, like their masters. 




Climate/Terrain: 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 

Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 

Magic Resistance: 
Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 


Any (currently Pandemonium) 

Unique 

Solitary 

Any 

Carnivore 
Average (8) 

See below 
Chaotic evil 
Unique 
-7 

18, Wb 15, Cl 9 
24, hp 50 (100) 

-3 

7 

2dl0/2dl0/ld8+10/ld8+10/ 
Id8+12/2d4+10/2d4+10 
Poison, webs, and see below 
Webs, immunities, harmed only by 
+3 or better weapons, regeneration 
70% 

H (15' long) 

Fearless (19) 

36,000 


During the ancient war between Law and Chaos, Miska 
was an invincible general. He was leading the hordes of 
Chaos to victory until the heroic vaati pierced him with 
the Rod of Seven Parts at the battle of Pesh and subse 
quently imprisoned him to protect the multiverse. 

Miska is an enormous, armored spider. He has three 
heads. The central head is human and stunningly hand 
some; two sleek and terrible wolf heads flank the human 
one. He has four massive human arms covered with long, 
stiff hairs. 

The fur on the wolf heads is rust red, as are the hairs on 
Miska's arms. His human head has long, flowing hair as 
black as a moonless night. His spider body is blue-black, 
like a knife blade discolored by a flame, and marked with 
bands of gray, silver and blue. His arms are as white as 
bleached ivory. 

Combat: Miska's wolf heads can deliver cruel bites. When 
bitten, an opponent must save vs. poison or immediately 
fall into a stupor. The victim can attempt a Constitution 
check every 2d8 hours to awaken, but the venom is corro 
sive and inflicts an additional point of damage every 30 
minutes. 

If the saving throw succeeds, the victim suffers a -3 
penalty to Dexterity for 2dl0 rounds. Additional bites do 
not increase the penalty, but they extend its duration. The 
victim also develops a festering sore and immediately 
loses one hit point and an additional hit point every 30 
minutes. A neutralize poison spell ends the damage, but 
does not heal it. Multiple bites cause multiple sores, but a 
single neutralize poison spell can treat all a victim's sores. 
Victims cannot benefit from magical healing until the 
venom is neutralized. 

Miska cannot attack the same opponent with both 


heads in a single round unless the foe is huge or gargan 
tuan. However, the rest of his melee attacks-from his 
multiple arms-are not restricted in how they attack; any 
where from one to four foes can be engaged. 

Miska attacks with his four arms, which are as strong as 
a hill giant's (after he is restored with the Rod, his Strength 
increases to 24, equal to that of a storm giant). He is 
armed with a scimitar of speed +3 (which allows him to 
attack twice a round with that arm, always striking first), 
a scimitar +5 that disintegrates lawful opponents (a success 
ful saving throw vs. spell negates the effect), and two 
morning stars +3. As noted, Miska can direct these attacks 
as he likes. 

Miska has the standard tanar'ri spell-like abilities. His 
infravision has a 120-foot range, and his gate ability 
allows him to summon ld4 raklupises three times a day 
with a 100% chance of success. He can caus efear (as a 
wand of fear) at will. Three times a day he can cast mirror 
image, slow, chaos, and shape change. Once an hour, Miska 
can converse with the Queen of Chaos, receiving advice 
and instructions for up to 10 minutes. Miska regenerates 5 
points of damage each round. All spell-like abilities func 
tion at 14th level. 

Miska has an effective Charisma score of 18. If he is 
shape changed into a humanoid form he has a Charisma of 
20 toward humanoids who are unaware of his true nature; 
those aware react with horror and fear, but are not subject 
to Miska's unnatural charms. Miska can imitate almost 
any noise or voice, provided he has heard it before. He is 
sly enough to use this ability to mislead enemies. 

Miska has all the silk-producing abilities that raklupises 
have. 

Miska cannot be trapped in webs of any kind. Sensory 
hairs on his arms and snouts allow him to detect invisible 
creatures within 90 feet. The ability is always active and is 
not foiled by non-detection spells or items that block div 
ination spells. Miska never suffers melee or movement 
penalties for darkness. 

While the Rod of Seven Parts exists, Miska cannot be per 
manently slain (see the Ecology section). Ironically, the 
power of the Rod and the link between it and Miska act to 
prevent the Wolf-Spider's demise. His regeneration power 
will eventually restore him, even if he is reduced to dust. 

If he is temporarily slain, his weapons disappear, re-form 
ing when he recovers. 

Blunt weapons tend to bounce off Miska's body, and he 
suffers only half damage from type B weapons. Slashing 
weapons affect him normally, but characters attacking him 
in melee with such weapons run the risk of getting 
splashed with his foul blood. If a type S weapon inflicts 
more than 5 points of damage in a single blow, the 
attacker must save vs. poison or die. Adjustments for 
magical armor and Dexterity defensive bonuses apply to 
the save. Piercing weapons are even more dangerous to 
use against Miska. Any melee hit with a type P weapon 
releases a stream of revolting ichor, inflicting ld6 points of 
damage on the attacker. The attacker must save vs. poison 
as above or die instantly, and the weapon must save vs. 




ter into its component segments and travel to another 
plane. Miska is immune to any weapon of less than +3 
enchantment, even iron and silver weapons. 

Habitat/Society: Miska is confined in a fortress some 
where in the depths of Pandemonium. The citadel is 
shrouded in a cocoon of pure Law, built by the Wind 
Dukes of Aaqa after Miska's defeat at the battle of Pesh. 
For centuries his location was unknown to all, but in the 
many years of his imprisonment, the Queen of Chaos 
managed to locate him in Pandemonium. Now he spends 
his days communing with the Queen of Chaos and yearn 
ing to resume the war against Law. He has a special desire 
to revenge himself on the vaati which crippled him. 

All spyder-fiends defer to Miska when he is present. 
Willing or no, they must obey his order, and they cannot 
attack him. The raklupises revere Miska much as a god 
and strive constantly to free him from his prison so he can 
lead them in war again. 

Ecology: Miska exists in his prison without food or water. 
Although he receives all the sustenance he needs, he is 
ravenously hungry and eager to hunt. 

A portion of Miska's essence is bound up in the Rod of 
Seven Parts. While his essence is fragmented, he cannot be 
permanently slain, even by a wish, but he is reduced to 
half hit points and suffers from diminished physical 
strength and intellect. If his lost essence is restored, 
Miska's hit points double, to a maximum of 100. His Intel 
ligence rises to exceptional (15), and he becomes as strong 
as a storm giant (+12 damage bonus instead of his previ 
ous +7). 

The portion of Miska's essence contained in the Rod can 
be transferred back to him if he can but grasp the fully 
assembled Rod with two hands or if the Rod's power of 
resurrection is used on him. Miska can handle the Rod 
without suffering any ill effects; his own essence protects 
him from the Law in the Rod. When Miska draws his 
essence out of the Rod the clash of Law and Chaos propels 
the Rod from Miska with the force of a siege engine. The 
Rod remains unstable even after Miska is restored, as it 
still is tainted by Chaos. 

Once restored, Miska can be slain just as any other 
tanar'ri can, but his foes must contend with his increased 
strength and powers. Also, with his own essence restored, 
the cocoon of Law can no longer bind him, and he is free 
to pursue the plans of conquest that he has fostered since 
the battle of Pesh. 



THE QUEEN 2 


Climate/Terrain: 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 
Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 

Magic Resistance: 
Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 


The Steaming Fen 
Unique 
Planar Ruler 
Any 

Carnivore 
Supra-genius (20) 

U,Z 

Chaotic evil 

Unique 

-5 

6, Sw 9, Jet 24 
20, hp 140 
1 
3 

2d6/2d6/2d6+16 

Constriction, beak, spell-like abilities 
Harmed only by +3 or better magical 
weapons, immunities, regeneration 
70% 

G (about 25' tall) 

Fearless (19) 

38,000 


The Queen of Chaos is a native of Limbo who rules the 
Steaming Fen. 

The queen's lower body is a mass of 10 mauve tentacles, 
like a giant squid's. The tentacles are always shiny with slime, 
and a network of red and purple veins shows beneath the 
skin. Her upper body is humanoid, female, and grossly fat. 
The skin is bluish, lighter at the corpulent belly and darker in 
back. The queen's eyes and hair are green; the locks hang in 
drooping curls. When standing upright on her tentacles she is 
about 25 feet tall, but she measures more than 90 feet from the 
top of her head to the tips of her longest tentacles. 

The queen carries a huge trident attached to one wrist with 
a coil of spyder-fiend silk rope. She wears a coronet of bones 
decorated with black pearls and a sahuagin skull. 


damage each round. Each tentacle can constrict a single 
opponent. The queen also has a razor-sharp beak hidden 
among her tentacles. She can bite one trapped creature with 
the beak each round for 7d4 points of damage. 

The queen's tentacles cannot be broken with a feat of 
Strength. The only way to escape is to sever the tentacle with an 
attack from a slashing weapon of +3 or better enchantment or 
with a tightly directed magical attacks such as magic missile. The 
tentacles are armor class -7 and each requires 30 points of dam 
age to sever. Damage from any physical attack is reduced by -5 
per attack. Creatures in a tentacle's grasp or trapped under the 
queen's body suffer a -3 penalty to attack and initiative rolls. 

Damage to the tentacles does not harm the queen. Severing 
a tentacle allows a creature in the tentacle's grasp to wiggle 
free of the queen's body, but the tentacle does not let go. It 
continues to constrict for 2d6 points of damage each round 
until removed with a successful open doors roll. 

The queen has these spell-like abilities as a 20th level 
caster: shape change into human or merman form, mirror 
image, slow, chaos, magic missile, tongues, clairvoyance, telekinesis, 
and ventriloquism (at will); suggestion with a maximum dura 
tion of one month, polymorph other, death fog, shocking grasp, 
eyebite, and taunt (six times a day); chain lightning, domination, 
mass charm, and polymorph any object (three times a day); and 
symbols of discord, fear, hopelessness, and pain (each once a day). 
She can telepathically communicate with any chaotic creature 
that is at least semi-intelligent. 

Once per hour, the queen can expel a cloud of noxious 
smoke (or ink when underwater), which has the following 
effects: darkness 15' radius, stinking cloud, or solid fog. Cloud 
effects function at 20th level. They are considered breath 
weapons and are not subject to magic resistance. 

Three times an hour, the queen can create a chaos gate. See 
Book III, page 14 for details. 

The Queen of Chaos is immune to all forms of acid, elec 
tricity, and poison. She regenerates one hit point a turn and 
regrows severed tentacles in 4dl2 hours. 


Combat: The queen is as strong as a frost giant, and her over 
sized trident is a +5 magical weapon that inflicts 2d6+2 points 
of damage (2d6+16 with all bonuses added). She can use the 
trident as a melee weapon or hurl it as a missile weapon. 
When she throws the trident, she can recover it immediately 
by pulling the rope attached to it. The rope is armor class -5, 
and it can sustain 50 points of damage before being severed. 
The rope is 75% resistant to magical fire. 

Two of the queen's tentacles are long enough to conduct 
melee with opponents up to 60 feet away; these tentacles are 
equipped with homy ridges that inflict 2d6 points of slashing 
damage. If the queen chooses, she can attempt to grab oppo 
nents of up to size large; opponents have an effective armor 
class of 10, with adjustments for magic and Dexterity, against 
this attack form, but the queen suffers a -4 attack penalty. If 
she successfully grabs a foe, she lifts the opponent off his feet 
and can stuff him under her body on the following round, 
freeing the grasping tentacle for further attacks. 

Opponents trapped under the queen's body are wrapped 
in one of her other tentacles and constricted for 3d6 points of 


Followers and Resources: The Queen of Chaos resides in a 
sprawling palace located on swampy island in the Steaming 
Fen. The palace is filled with treasures looted from every 
Prime Material World where her agents are active. Some of 
the spoils stored in the palace might actually date back to the 
original war against Law. 

Every spyder-fiend gives allegiance to the queen, even if 
only grudgingly. She rules through intimidation, favors 
granted and capriciously withdrawn, and shrewd bargaining. 

Plots and Goals: The queen is obsessed with freeing Miska 
the Wolf-Spider, her lover and most successful general, from 
his prison. The queen adroitly pits her rivals against each 
other and placates enemies with gifts of treasure and slaves. 

She constantly monitors the Prime Material Plane for any 
sign of the Rod of Seven Parts, which she believes (correctly) 
can heal the crippling injury Miska suffered. Whenever mor 
tals find the Rod and begin assembling it, the queen learns 
about it through her servants, spies, and a sixth sense she has 
developed regarding the Rod. 




Climate/Terrain: 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 
THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 


-Uncommon (Very rare outside the Steaming Fen) - 

Pack 

Pack 

Pack 

Any 

Any 

Any 

Carnivore 

Carnivore 

Carnivore 

Semi (2-4) 

Average (8-10) 

Very (11-12) 

Nil 

Nil 

H 

Chaotic evil 

Chaotic evil 

Chaotic evil 

2dl0 

2d6 

2d4 

2 

0 

-3 



_is WH15 Cl 9_ 

4 

7+1 

1 TO/ V V Li JLiV_I 7 

9+1 

17 

13 

11 

1 

1 

3 

2d4 

2d6 

2d6/ld3/ld3 or 



2d6/by weapon/ 



by weapon 


10+6 

9 

3 

2d8/ld4/ld4 or 
2d8/by weapon +6/ 
by weapon +6 


12+8 

7 

3 

2dl0/ld6/ld6 or 
2dl0/by weapon +8/ 
by weapon +8 


Any 

Very rare 

Solitary 

Any 

Carnivore 
Exceptional (15-16) 
Z 

Chaotic evil 

ld4 

-4 


Any 

Very rare 

Solitary 

Any 

Carnivore 
Genius (17-18) 
C,Z 

Chaotic evil 
1 

-6 


Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 


-Poison, webs, and see below- 

Webs, immunities Webs, immunities. Webs, immunities. Webs, immunities, 

harmed only by+1 harmed only by+2 harmed only by+2 

or better weapons or better weapons or better weapons 


Webs, immunities, 
harmed only by +3 
or better weapons 


Magic Resistance: 

15% 

35% 

50% 

60% 

70% 

Size: 

M (5' long) 

M (6' long) 

L(71/2' long) 

L (8' long) 

L (10' long) 

Morale: 

Steady (11-12) 

Elite (12-14) 

Champion (15-16) 

Champion (15-16) 

Fanatic (17-18) 

XP Value: 

5,000 

12,000 

18,000 

22,000 

25,000 


The spyder-fiends are a subrace of tanar'ri that serve the 
Queen of Chaos. Sages speculate that the original spyder- 
fiends were the spawn of the Queen of Chaos and Miska the 
Wolf-spider, the queen's lover and general. Most spyder- 
fiends combine the worst attributes of a wolf and a spider. 

The smallest ones have spider bodies about the size of ponies; 
larger fiends may have bodies the size of heavy warhorses. 

All spyder-fiends have lupine heads and necks growing from 
the front of the body. The mouth is full of yellow, dog-like 
teeth, with a pair of spider fangs next to the primary canines. 
The spider body has eight legs, each tipped with pads and 
claws that allow the creature to climb vertical surfaces. 

The head and neck usually are covered with matted, 
dirty fur. Under all the grime, the fur is gray with lighter 
patches around the eyes and snout. Most spyder-fiends' 
bodies are covered with coarse, stiff hair, which is typically 
dark or sandy brown and covered with spots, stripes, or 
bands of another color. 

Less intelligent spyder-fiends are bloodthirsty and ani 
malistic; they have the dispositions of rabid wolves. All are 
cruel and wickedly cunning. 

Combat: A spyder-fiend's primary attack is its venomous 
bite. The poison has an onset time of ld4 rounds, and if the 
victim fails a saving throw vs. poison, he collapses into a 
semi-conscious stupor, unable to move, think, or act. The 
victim can attempt a Constitution check every 2d4 hours to 
shake off the venom's effects. Even if the saving throw suc 
ceeds, the victim suffers a -2 penalty to Dexterity for 2d4 
rounds. Additional bites do not increase the penalty, but 
they extend its duration. A slow poison spell applied before 


the onset time expires negates the penalty. The more pow 
erful spyder-fiends carry even more potent venom. 

A spyder-fiend's bulbous abdomen is equipped with 
spinnerets that can produce strands of silk. Spyder-fiends 
do not actually spin webs like normal or giant spiders do, 
but they can use their silk in various ways. Most com 
monly, a spyder-fiend uses its silk to suspend itself in the 
air, so that it can drop on unsuspecting prey. The creature 
also can lay a network of strands throughout an area to 
allow itself movement in three dimensions. A spyder-fiend 
can throw out silk up to 30 yards to bridge gaps. 

Most spyder-fiend silk is not sticky, but the individual 
stands are effectively invisible unless touched. (Opponents 
who suspect the presence of a strand can attempt a saving 
throw to see it, as noted in the description for the 2nd level 
wizard spell invisibility.) All spyder-fiends can use their silk 
to protect themselves from falling. A spyder-fiend suffers 
no falling damage if there is a surface within 30 yards that 
is strong enough to anchor a strand of silk. Also, if a victim 
is immobilized by the venom, a spyder-fiend can use its 
silk to bind the creature. The process takes three rounds. 
Bound victims who recover from the venom have one 
chance to break free with a successful band bars roll. For 
every additional round the fiend spends binding a victim 
in silk, there is a -10% penalty to the victim's bend bars 
chance, but the chance can never be reduced by more than 
half. 

The individual types of spyder-fiends can create addi 
tional effects with their silk. 

Although powerful, spyder-fiends prefer ambush to 
frontal attacks. They typically lie in wait for prey or ene- 


Spyder- Fiends 


mies, dropping from above by means of their silk or rush 
ing the foes' rear and flanks from concealment. When 
attacking from concealment or invisibility, a spyder-fiend 
imposes a -5 penalty to opponents' surprise rolls. 

Spyder-fiends can use a silk ability while attacking phys 
ically, but not while using a spell-like ability. The creature 
can fire silk in any direction. 

Spyder-fiends with the ability to alter their forms are 
fully able to use their spell-like abilities while in assumed 
forms. The fiend can retain its venomous bite and silk pro 
ducing abilities if it chooses, but a close examination might 
reveal the creature's fangs and spinnerets. (If the fiend 
chooses to forgo any abilities, the assumed form can con 
ceal the fangs or spinnerets or both.) If a chosen form does 
not have a bite attack, the fiend's bite delivers only one 
point of damage. 

As tanar'ri, all spyder-fiends have the following spell 
like abilities: darkness 15' radius, infravision (always active, 
range varies with type), and teleport without error. Spyder- 
fiends can gate in other spyder-fiends (the details vary by 
type) and are affected by various attack forms as noted 
below: 


Attack Form Damage 

Acid Full 

Cold Half 

Electricity (lightning) None 

Fire (magical) Half 1 

Fire (nonmagical) None 

Gas (poisonous, etc.) Half 

Iron Weapon Full 2 

Magic Missile Full 3 

Poison None 

Silver Weapon Full 4 


1 The spyder-fiend suffers only half damage even if its sav 
ing throw fails. If the saving throw succeeds, the spyder- 
fiend suffers quarter damage. A successful magic resistance 
roll, if applicable, negates all damage. 

2 Even if the spyder-fiend is normally harmed only by mag 
ical weapons. 

3 A successful magic resistance roll negates all damage. 

4 Even if the spyder-fiend is normally harmed only by mag 
ical weapons; lycosidililths and raklupises suffer only half 
damage. 

Habitat/Society: Spyder-fiends are the primary residents of 
the Steaming Fen, a layer of the Abyss that consists of a vast 
salt marsh and a turbulent ocean. Both marsh and ocean are 
studded with outcroppings of rock, some covered with jungle 
vegetation. The whole plane is dank and smells of decay. The 
air is thick with biting and stinging insects, and the ground 
and water seethe with crawling insects and other vermin. 

Spyder-fiends pay homage to the Queen of Chaos, who 
rules the plane. The queen sends spyder-fiends on errands 
throughout the multiverse, so they can be encountered 
almost anywhere. Less intelligent fiends sometimes acci 
dentally stumble through a gate or conduit to another 


world, where they immediately take up the hunt. More 
intelligent spyder-fiends sometimes roam the planes on 
errands of their own. 

Ecology: Spyder-fiends eat any living thing they can catch, 
but they always consume their prey live and eat only what 
they catch themselves. The more powerful and intelligent 
spyder fiends derive more nourishment from their prey's 
life force and fear, but they retain a taste for fresh meat, too. 
Spyder fiends have little to fear in their home layer of the 
Abyss, except for occasional hunting parties of yuguloths 
and balors. In tanar'ri fashion, the weaker spyder-fiends 
also serve as prey for the more powerful ones. 

Kakkuu 

The kakkuu (pronounced Kah-KOO) are the weakest and 
least intelligent of the spyder-fiends. They have bloated 
spider bodies and mangy, filthy wolf heads. Kakkuu are 
bloodthirsty and animalistic; they can communicate with 
each other by means of fierce snarls, barks, and howls. The 
more intelligent tanar'ri can order them about with their 
telepathic abilities. 

A kakkuu weighs about 300 pounds. 

Combat: A kakkuu has infravision with a 60-foot range and 
the standard tanar'ri spell-like abilities as a 4th level caster. 
Its gate ability allows it to summon ld8 kakkuu once a day 
with a 35% chance of success. 

When left on their own, kakkuu behave very much like 
huge spiders, lying in wait for prey. A kakkuu can flatten 
its body and blend with its surroundings. Its markings pro 
vide natural camouflage, and if the kakkuu has even a 
small amount of cover (foliage, rocks, etc.) it is 80% unde 
tectable until it moves. 

A kakkuu can produce strands of silk for movement, as 
described above. A kakkuu can also create an adhesive glob 
of silk about the size of a fist. Usually, the kakkuu perches 
over a trail or passage and drops a strand of silk with the 
glob attached to the free end. The creature swings the glob 
like a pendulum over the area beneath, and any creature 
touching it becomes stuck. Creatures along the path of a 
swinging glob (usually a straight line from 5 to 25 feet long) 
must save vs. breath weapon or become stuck. If a group of 
creatures are in the path, only the first creature that fails the 
saving throw is stuck. When it catches a creature, the kakkuu 
reels in its victim at a rate of 15. A single strand of kakkuu 
silk can support about 1,000 pounds before breaking. It can 
be cut with an edged weapon (AC 0,5 hp) or burned away 
in one round. A kakkuu, however, can only lift about 500 
pounds when pulling in a strand. A kakkuu cannot fire a 
glob of silk as a missile; it must be dropped from above. 

Habitat/Society: Kakkuu seldom harass each other, but 
they attack anything that isn't larger than themselves. They 
are cunning enough to avoid other fiends more powerful 
than they are. If commanded by a more intelligent tanar'ri, 
kakkuu are capable of hunting or fighting cooperatively, 
much as wolves do. 



Spyder-Fiends 



Spithriku 

These tanar'ri look like 
larger, more fearsome 
kakkuu, which is what 
they are (though they 
resent the fact if any 
one points it out). In 
addition to its eight 
legs, a spithriku has a 
pair of pedipalps (leg 
like appendages) 
growing from the 
base of its wolf neck. 

The pedipalps can 
not manipulate 
objects, but they 
are covered with 
sensitive hairs 
that can detect 
even the 
slightest 
vibration. 

Spithriku 
are as blood 
thirsty as their 
lesser kin, but 
more intelligent 
and cunning. They 

can communicate with any intelligent 
creature via telepathy. They are unable to 
speak, but can voice all manner of snarls, grunts, barks, and 
howls. Spithriku can understand and communicate in the 
animalistic snarling of kakkuu. 

A spithriku weighs about 350 pounds. 

Combat: Spithriku have venomous bites, infravision with a 
90-foot range, and the standard tanar'ri spell-like abilities. 
Their gate ability allows them to summon 2d8 kakkuu or 
ld4 spithriku three times a day with a 40% chance of suc 
cess. In addition, spithriku can use telekinesis three times a 
day, and at will can cause/ear (as the 4th level wizard spell) 
in a single creature by touch. Their spell-like abilities func 
tion at 7th level. 

A spithriku can produce and employ silk just as a 
kakkuu can. Every three rounds, it can shoot a spray of 
webbing from its body (range 0) that creates an entangle 
effect in a cone 10 feet wide, 30 feet long, and 20 wide at the 
far end. The effect is similar to the 1st level priest spell 
entangle except that the effect remains for a full week or 
until burned away (which causes ld8 points of fire damage 
to creatures caught within it). A spithriku also can fire a 
lightweight ball of silk with a fine strand of silk attached up 
to 30 yards. The strand is too weak to trap creatures, but it 
can transmit the spithriku's/eor attack to the target. 

Spithriku cannot be trapped in webs of any kind. The 
sensory hairs on their pedipalps allow them to detect invis 
ible creatures within 30 feet; this ability is continuously 
active and is never foiled by nondetection spells or items 


that foil divination spells. Spithriku never suffer melee or 
movement penalties for darkness. 

Spithriku are 80% undetectable when motionless and in 
cover, just as kakkuu are. Their greater intelligence allows 
them to employ more sophisticated tactics than kakkuu 
use. A typical spithriku attack begins with darkness spells. 
While the opponents deal with the darkness, the spithriku 
use their teleport abilities to surround the foe. Once in place, 
half the fiends attack from one direction while the others 
use their fear or entangle effects from the other direction. If 
the opponents negate the darkness, the fiends that are not 
fighting cast darkness again. If faced with physically dan 
gerous opponents, the spithriku use their teleport abilities to 
stay out of reach and to maneuver to the opponents' rear. 

Habitat/Society: Many spithriku prefer to haunt the lairs of 
more powerful fiends, fawning over their masters and hop 
ing for advancement or a simple handout. They are as 
chaotic and untrustworthy as any other tanar'ri, however, 
and never hesitate to abandon or turn against their superi 
ors in a moment of weakness. Other spithriku roam the 
Steaming Fen, stalking weaker creatures and occasionally 
gathering up packs of kakkuu to form hunting parties 
bound for other layers of the Abyss or the planes beyond. 

While kakkuu form the rank and file of the Queen of 
Chaos's armies, the spithriku serve as her primary servants 
and messengers. Due to their intelligence, one or two 




Spyder- Fiends 


spithriku are sometimes assigned to lead a pack of kakkuu 
on an errand. 

Phisarazu 

In its natural form, a phisarazu is a repulsive creature 
whose gross spider's body is covered with stiff, wiry hair. It 
has a scruffy wolf's head and neck. Two pale humanoid 
arms sprout from the base of the neck, and a craggy line of 
knobby, hairless lumps runs down the back of the neck to 
the tip of the creature's globular abdomen. Its coat is mostly 
black, sometimes with a green or blue tints, swirled, striped, 
or spotted with various shades of gray, green, or blue. The 
arms are smooth and sickly, but fairly strong, ending in five 
fingered hands with clawed digits. The lumps are coal black 
or oily blue. The creature's arms and hands are fully func 
tional and capable of using tools or weapons. 

A phisarazu weighs about 450 pounds. 

Phisarazu are capable of speech in almost any tongue, 
though their conversation is usually punctuated by panting 
and growling. They can speak and understand the feral 
language of kakkuu and can telepathically communicate 
with any intelligent creature. 

Combat: A phisarazu's bite poisonous. The venom is simi 
lar to a kakkuu's, but faster acting (the onset time is ld3 
rounds) and slightly more potent. Opponents who fail their 
saving throws vs. poison check Constitution every 2d6 
hours to recover. Even if the saving throw succeeds, the vic 
tim suffers a -3 penalty to Dexterity for 2d6 rounds. 

Phisarazu have the standard tanar'ri spell-like abilities. 
Their infravision has a 90-foot range. Their gate ability 
allows them to summon 2dl0 kakkuu, ld8 spithriku, or ld4 
phisarazu three times a day with a 50% chance of success. 
Phisarazu have the following additional spell-like abilities: 
at will, they can cause fear (as the 4th level wizard spell) in 
a single creature by touch, become invisible, or use alter self. 
Three times a day they can cast telekinesis, forget, and mirror 
image. All spell-like abilities function at 9th level. 

Phisarazu can employ all the silk-producing abilities that 
spithriku do, except that the phisarazu entangle ability can be 
used every two rounds. In addition, phisarazu can fire a mass 
of iridescent silken strands every two rounds. The threads 
can blind opponents and reveal invisible creatures just as the 
2nd level wizard spell glitterdust does. The range is 30 yards. 

Phisarazu cannot be trapped in webs of any kind. Sen 
sory hairs on their arms and snouts allow them to detect 
invisible creatures within 40 feet. The ability is continu 
ously active and is never foiled by nondetection spells or 
items that foil divination spells. Phisarazu never suffer 
melee or movement penalties for darkness. 

Though their clawed hands are effective weapons, phis 
arazu are usually armed. They can employ a melee weapon 
in each hand at no penalty. Their favorite melee weapons 
are scimitars and morning stars, through a few carry 
lighter, more easily concealed weapons such as short 
swords. The average phisarazu also carries a short bow or 
two hand crossbows. 

Phisarazu are cunning and merciless; they love a good 


ambush and freely use their darkness and invisibility powers to 
catch opponents unawares. When subjected to physical attack, 
they employ their mirror image power to avoid damage. In 
large battles, they are fond of using their alter self ability to 
appear as weaker creatures (such as driders, giant crabs, or 
kakkuu) so as not to draw attention to themselves. When 
employing alter self, phisarazu are limited to basically arach 
nid forms with 10 limbs. When assuming a crablike form, a 
phisarazu can swim at a rate of 9 and breathe underwater. 

Habitat/Society: Phisarazu resent anything less loathsome 
than themselves, which is just about everything, and 
delight in tormenting creatures that are weaker or less intel 
ligent than they. Between their cruelty and their resent 
ment, there are very few creatures in the multiverse that 
phisarazu do not perceive as either enemies or potential 
victims. 

Though they usually prowl the land areas of the Steaming 
Fen, their alter self ability allows them to hunt everywhere. 

The Queen of Chaos often puts a phisarazu in charge of a 
group of kakkuu when their mission is beyond the capacity 
of the less intelligent spithriku. The Queen of Chaos's rare 
contributions to the Blood War (an age-old conflict between 
the tanar'ri and the baatezu) usually consist of lightning raids 
by mobs of phisarazu. Other tanar'ri lords sometimes bargain 
with the Queen of Chaos to acquire phisarazu guards, which 
are valued for their ability to detect invisible foes. 

Lycosidilith 

A lycosidilith has a sleek, hairless spider body. Chitinous 
plates cover the creature's back and belly. The wolf head is 
furry, but backed by bony plates. A lycosidilith is usually 
green or blue overall, with yellow, black, or orange, speck 
les, spots, or rings. The bony plates on the wolf head are the 
same color as the rest of the creature's body, but the fur is 
typically black or gray. Two robust humanoid arms sprout 
from the base of the neck. 

A lycosidilith weighs about 400 pounds. 

Lycosidiliths have pleasant voices that belie their mon 
strous appearance. They can converse eloquently in any 
language. They also can speak and understand the feral 
language of kakkuu and can telepathically communicate 
with any intelligent creature. 

Combat: A lycosidilith's poisonous bite is very dangerous. 

The venom has an onset time of ld3 rounds, and the victim 
falls into semi-consciousness state (unable to move, think, or 
act) if he fails a saving throw vs. poison. The victim can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d6 hours to awaken. 

Even if the saving throw succeeds, the victim suffers a -3 
penalty to Dexterity for 2d6 rounds. Additional bites do not 
increase the penalty, but they extend its duration. A slow poison 
spell applied before the onset time expires negates the penalty. 

Further, the venom destroys tissue if the bite is not treated. 
Even if the saving throw succeeds, the victim develops a fes 
tering sore within 2d8 hours. Initially, the victim loses one hit 
point and an additional hit point each day the sore goes 
untreated. A neutralize poison spell ends the effect, but does 



Spyder-Fiends 


not heal the damage. Multiple bites cause multiple sores, but 
a single neutralize poison spell can treat all a victim's sores. 

Lycosidiliths have the standard tanar'ri spell-like abili 
ties. Their infravision has a 90-foot range. Their gate ability 
allows them to summon 2dl0 kakkuu, ld8 spithriku, ld4 
phisarazu, or 1 lycosidilith three times a day with a 60% 
chance of success. Lycosidiliths have the following addi 
tional spell-like abilities: at will, they can caus efear (as the 
4th level wizard spell) in a single creature by touch, become 
invisible, alter self, and telekinesis. Three times a day they can 
cast forget, mirror image, and polymorph self. All spell-like 
abilities function at 10th level. 

Lycosidiliths have all the silk-producing abilities of phis 
arazu, except that the lycosidilith entangle ability can be 
used every two rounds and has a larger area of effect (the 
cone is 50 feet long), and their glitterdust ability has a range 
of 40 yards. Lycosidiliths can create a web effect (as the 2nd 
level wizard spell) once every three rounds. Lycosidiliths' 
webs have a range of 50 yards and are only 50% likely to 
burn each round that fire is applied to them, no matter 
what form the webbing takes. 

Lycosidiliths cannot be trapped in webs of any kind. Sen 
sory hairs on their arms and snouts allow them to detect 
invisible creatures within 50 feet. The ability is continu 
ously active and is never foiled by nondetection 
spells or items that foil divination spells. Lyco 
sidiliths never suffer melee or move 
ment penalties for dark 
ness. 

Through 
their clawed 
hands are 
effective 
weapons, 
lycosidiliths 
usually are 
armed. They 
can employ a 
melee 
weapon in 
each hand at 
no penalty. 

Their favorite 
melee weapons 
are scimitars and 
morning stars, 
through a few 
carry lighter, 
more easily con 
cealed weapons 
such as short 
swords. Most lyco 
sidiliths also carry a 
short bow or darts. 

Lycosidiliths are power 
ful, and their arms are as 
strong as an ogre's. The 
creatures gain a +6 


damage bonus on armed attacks, and their missile weapons 
are modified to take advantage of their strength. 

Like phisarazu, lycosidiliths are masters of ambush, and 
freely use their darkness and invisibility powers to catch 
opponents unawares. They frequently use their polymorph 
self ability to appear as harmless creatures such as normal 
humans or normal animals. Like the phisarazu, lyco 
sidiliths are limited to basically arachnid forms with 10 
limbs when employing their alter self powers, so they prefer 
to polymorph themselves instead. 

Habitat/Society: Like phisarazu, lycosidiliths use alter self 
to prowl the whole of the Steaming Fen, though they spend 
most of their time on land. A corps of lycosidiliths acts as 
personal guards and servants to the Queen of Chaos. The 
queen also employs them as ambassadors and for other 
missions that require subtlety and tact. There is great 
rivalry between lycosidiliths and phisarazu. The latter 
resent the lycosidiliths' greater status and intelligence (not 
to mention their more refined appearance). In turn, the 
lycosidiliths regard the more numerous phisarazu as a 
threat. The lycosidiliths respond by seeking protection from 
more powerful fiends or by surrounding themselves with 
lesser tanar'ri guards. The lycosidiliths also use their influ 
ence with the Queen of Chaos to make sure the 
phisarazu continue to carry the brunt of the 
Blood War. 







Spyder-Mends 


Raklupis 

A raklupis is a trim looking creature. The spider body is 
rounded and covered with a hard, smooth shell that 
harmlessly deflects most blows. The creature's wolf head 
is covered with luxuriant fur, and a triple row of sharp 
looking spines runs down the back of the neck to the spi 
der body. The fur is black or gray, but the shell and spines 
can be almost any color and are always vividly marked 
with swirls, bands, or spots of contrasting colors. A 
raklupis's humanoid arms are knotted with thick cords of 
muscle and covered with tufts of hair that match the wolf 
head. 

Raklupises have even more beautiful and compelling 
voices than lycosidiliths do; they weigh about 450 pounds. 

Combat: A raklupis has a fearsome bite attack. Not only 
do the creature's powerful jaws inflict significant damage, 
but its bite also injects a powerful venom similar to a lyco- 
sidilith's poison, though more potent. When bitten, an 
opponent must attempt a saving throw vs. poison or fall 
into a stupor; the onset time is immediate. The victim can 
attempt a Constitution check every 2d6 hours to recover 
from the stupor, but the venom's corrosive effects also 
inflict an additional point of damage every hour. 

Even if the saving throw succeeds, the victim suffers a -3 
penalty to Dexterity for 2d8 rounds. Additional bites do 
not increase the penalty, but they extend its duration. The 
victim also develops a festering sore and immediately loses 
one hit point, plus an additional hit point each hour the 
sore goes untreated. A neutralize poison spell ends the effect, 
but does not heal the damage. Multiple bites cause multi 
ple sores, but a single neutralize poison spell can treat all a 
victim's sores. The victim is unable to benefit from any 
form of magical healing until the venom is neutralized. 

Raklupises have the standard tanar'ri spell-like abili 
ties. Their infravision has a 120-foot range. Their gate abil 
ity allows them to summon 2dl0 kakkuu, ld8 spithriku, 
ld4 phisarazu, 1 lycosidilith, or 1 raklupis three times a 
day with a 65% chance of success. Raklupises also have 
the following additional spell-like abilities: at will, they 
can cause fear (as the 4th level wizard spell) in a single 
creature by touch, become invisible, alter self, and telekine 
sis. Three times a day they can cast forget, mirror image, 
and shape change. All spell-like abilities function at 12th 
level. 

A raklupis has an effective Charisma score of 18. If the 
creature is shape changed into a humanoid form it has a 
Charisma of 20 toward humanoids who are unaware of its 
true nature. Three times a day, a raklupis can produce a 
song or chant of haunting beauty that functions as a mass 
charm affecting up to 24 hit dice worth of listeners within 
30 feet of the raklupis. 

Raklupises have all the silk-producing abilities that 
lycosidiliths have, except that they can use one web ability 
of their choice every round. Their glitterdust ability has a 
range of 60 yards. Raklupises' webs are only 25% likely to 
burn each round that fire is applied to them, no matter 
what form the webbing takes. 


A raklupis can create up to three waterproof globes of 
silk each day. It typically fills these with its own venom. 
When thrown or dropped, the globes burst, filling an area 
15 feet in diameter with a poisonous mist. Creatures 
within the mist must save vs. poison or become blinded 
and mute for 3d4 turns as well as suffering 3d6 points of 
damage. If the save succeeds, the victim still suffers 2d6 
points of damage, plus slurred speech and shortsighted 
ness for ld4 rounds. During this time, the victim has a -2 
penalty on all missile attacks and any spell he casts has a 
20% chance to fail outright if it has a verbal component. 
When filled with liquid, the globes can be thrown up to 10 
yards. They are very fragile and tend to burst if roughly 
handled; these globes make item saving throws as pottery. 
A raklupis usually carries its globes attached to its back 
with bits of sticky webbing. The globes become brittle if 
not used immediately, bursting on their own after ld6+18 
hours. 

Raklupises cannot be trapped in webs of any kind. Sen 
sory hairs on their arms and snouts allow them to detect 
invisible creatures within 60 feet. The ability is continu 
ously active and is never foiled by nondetection spells or 
items that foil divination spells. Raklupises never suffer 
melee or movement penalties for darkness. 

Raklupises usually carry weapons so that they can take 
full advantage of their powerful arms, which are as strong 
a stone giant's. The creature gains a +8 damage bonus 
when fighting with a weapon. Raklupises carry the same 
sorts of weapons as lycosidiliths do. 

Like their lesser kin, raklupises are masters of ambush. 
They use their shape change ability to appear as harmless 
creatures such as normal humans or normal animals. Like 
the phisarazu and lycosidiliths, raklupises are limited to 
basically arachnid forms with 10 limbs when employing 
their alter self powers, so they prefer to shape change 
instead. They typically begin combat by hurling globes of 
venom. 

Habitat/Society: Although capable of roaming almost 
anywhere, raklupises are fairly sedentary. About a dozen 
of them maintain their own citadels in the Steaming Fen. 
Another two serve as advisors and generals to the Queen 
of Chaos, standing in for Miska the Wolf spider in his 
absence. About a dozen more are scattered throughout the 
multiverse, either engaged in the search for the Rod or 
maintaining citadels on other levels of the Abyss. Their 
lack of concern for the Blood War makes raklupises fairly 
unpopular among most true tanar'ri, but their power and 
status generally assures that weaker tanar'ri defer to 
them. 




Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 
Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 
Magic Resistance: 
Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 


or Solitary 

Any 

Omnivore 

Exceptional to Genius (15-18) 

A (A, W) 

Lawful neutral 
ld4 

5 (per caste and level) 

12, FI 12 (A) 

4 (per caste and level) 

17 (per caste and level) 

1 (per caste and level) 

by weapon + Strength bonus 

See below 

See below 

Nil 

M (7' tall) 

Elite to fearless (13-20) 

2,000 + 1,000 per level beyond 4th 


die). 

Vaati have infravision with a 90-foot range and can see 
though fog, dust, and similar air-based impediments to vision. 

If they cannot avoid a fight, vaati usually try to gain a 
height advantage over their foes. They bombard the enemy 
with spells and missiles; they also use their feather fall ability 
to foil incoming missile attacks. 

More powerful vaati have additional class and spell-like 
abilities based on their castes, as detailed below. The level 
ranges given are only typical values, and higher or lower 
level vaati are possible. 

A vaati's flesh is resistant to blows and provides an excel 
lent armor class. More powerful vaati have even better armor 
classes. If a vaati wears armor, he receives either the armor 
class bestowed by the armor or his own armor class, 
whichever is better. Bracers of defense and other protective 
items that bestow a fixed armor class work the same way. An 
unarmored vaati wearing a ring of protection or a similar item 
receives the full benefit of the item. 

Vaati have a base morale of 13, which improves by one for 
each level beyond 4th for a maximum of 20 at 11th level. 


The Vaati (VAH tee), or Wind Dukes, are a race of immortals 
dedicated to Law. Vaati look like statuesque humans. They 
are tall, muscular, and androgynous. As a rule, they wear no 
clothing, but usually wear belts or harnesses to carry 
weapons and equipment. Vaati have smooth, ebony skin, 
brilliantly white eyes that sparkle with inner light, and vel 
vety black hair (which usually is kept closely shaved). 

Vaati speak their own language, which is very rhythmic and 
melodic. It contains many complex whistling sounds. A group 
of vaati talking produce something that sounds more like chant 
ing or wind whispering through the trees than conversation. 
Vaati adventurers also speak common. When surprised or 
exited, however, a vaati tends to let out a whistle rather than use 
an exclamation peculiar to its adopted language. 

Aeons ago, the vaati ruled a vast empire spread over several 
worlds on the Prime Material Plane, with footholds throughout 
the planes. When war between Law and Chaos erupted, the 
vaati were nearly annihilated. They survived only by creating 
the Rod of Seven Parts and using it to end the war. 

Combat: Vaati are peaceful and prefer to negotiate rather 
than fight. If pressed into action, or faced with chaotic foes, 
they display considerable strength and ingenuity in combat. 

All vaati have the following spell-like powers usable at will: 
control temperature 10' radius, dust devil, gust of wind, and feather 
fall. They can fly at a speed of 12 (some vaati fly even faster), 
although strong head winds reduce their movement by half. 
They can use their gust of wind ability to double their flying 
movement for one round. Their spell-like powers function at 
4th level or at their character level, whichever is higher. 

Vaati are immune to all forms of aging and are resistant to 
attacks based on the element of air. No air elemental creature 
will attack a vaati or even approach within five feet unless the 
vaati attacks first. Even then, vaati receive a +2 bonus to all sav 
ing throws, armor class, and ability checks involving air-based 
attacks of any kind, and any damage suffered is reduced by -2 


Habitat/Society: Most of the remaining vaati live in the Vale 
of Aaqa, a secluded valley ringed with protective mountains. 
The valley is completely sealed to all means of transit except 
flight. Teleportation is ineffective, though there are several 
gates to the Astral plane. The valley's exact location is a well- 
kept secret. 

The Vale of Aaqa is a well-regulated paradise with a con 
stant temperature of 72 degrees, manicured fields and gar 
dens, and stately pavilions surrounded by exquisite rock gar 
dens. In the entire valley, there is not single blade of grass or 
leaf out of place. The valley could easily support 10 times 
more vaati than currently reside there, and most of the pavil 
ions stand empty. Even this last stronghold of the race was 
depopulated during the war against Chaos. 

Vaati society is divided into seven castes. The exact criteria 
the vaati use to assign castes is unclear to outsiders. All Laati 
are born into the wergadeam (worker) caste. Sometime after 
adolescence, a young vaati either joins another caste or 
remains a wergadeam. In times of need, some members of the 
wergadeam join other castes where they can be more useful. 
The other six castes are the houdeam (civil and military lead 
ers, guards, and soldiers), the haikjadeam (teachers, investiga 
tors, and lorekeepers), the trygrideam (farmers, animal keep 
ers, and judges), the kheirdeam (physicians and counselors), 
the vindeam (philosophers, guardians, and advisors), and the 
bledrudeam (also philosophers, guardians, and advisors). 

There is an another, unofficial, caste as well. The wendeam 
are wanderers that keep watch over the Rod of Seven Parts 
and the Queen of Chaos. The wendeam are independent 
beings and essentially outcasts. 

The wergadeam never leave the Vale of Aaqa. The other 
castes, except for the wendeam, tend to remain in the valley 
unless sent away to handle some matter of vital interest to 
the race. The wendeam wander the Prime Material Plane and 
almost never set foot in the Vale of Aaqa. 

The vaati employ no badges or markings to indicate caste. To a 




Vaati (Wind Dukes) 


vaati, another vaati's caste is immediately and innately obvious. 

To most observers, even the most open-minded, vaati seem 
stuffy and overconcerned with formal rules. They are excru 
ciatingly regular in their personal habits and they have rules 
governing everything. They are quick to criticize any lapse in 
etiquette. Very lawful creatures usually are impressed by 
their behavior, but others find it tiresome. 

Ecology: Though fairly large and powerful, vaati eat very lit 
tle. They seem to exist primarily on air. The Valley of Aaqa, 
however, produces a wide variety of foods, and the vaati can 
offer the occasional visitor a sumptuous repast. 

Although they can be slain or laid low by disease, vaati are 
immortal. Most vaati are at least 3,000 years old, and many 
are much older than that. Vaati birth rates are very low; there 
are no more than one or two vaati children born in a century. 
The race will probably never recover from the losses it suf 
fered during the war against Chaos. 

Wergadeam 

Most vaati belong to this caste. They have Strength scores of 
17, giving them a +1 bonus to attack and damage. They are 
typically armed with staves and knives. If prepared for war, 
they carry long swords and long bows. They have no special 
powers beyond those common to all vaati. 

Houdeam 

The houdeam conduct the vaati's civil and military affairs. 
They are primarily charged with guarding the Vale of Aaqa 
and keeping a wary eye on visitors to the valley. During the 
war against Chaos, the houdeam formed an elite corps many 
thousands strong. These were the Captains of Law men 
tioned in the history of the Rod of Seven Parts. 

Houdeam are fighters of 5th-14th level (ldl0+4). They have 
Strength scores of 18/77, giving them a +2 attack bonus and a 
+4 bonus to damage. Their base armor class is 3, and it 
improves by 2 for every three levels the houdeam has gained 
beyond 4th. A houdeam is usually armed with a two-handed 
sword, a long bow, and several daggers. The sword and bow 
have a +1 enchantment when used by a vaati, and the enchant 
ment improves by one for every three levels the houdeam 
gains beyond 4th, to a maximum of +4. In the hands of a non- 
vaati, the weapons not only lose their enchantment, but also 
corrode, falling to pieces in 2d6 months. All houdeam are two- 
handed sword specialists. Even if unarmed, houdeam can 
make open hand attacks at the standard rate for their fighter 
levels. These can be resolved as pummeling attacks or as lethal 
attacks that inflict ld4+4 points of damage. When making a 
lethal open hand attack, a houdeam is considered armed (see 
Chapter 9 of the PHB). If the martial arts and weapon mastery 
rules from the Player's Option'": Combat and Tactics book are in 
play, houdeam are considered specialists in martial arts style C 
and masters with the two-handed sword. They have one step 
of mastery for every three levels they have gained beyond 4th. 

Houdeam have the spell-like powers common to all vaati, 
and can make their two-handed swords dance (as swords of 
dancing) three times a day. A houdeam typically makes open 
hand attacks while his sword dances. 


Haikjadeam 

The haikjadeam serve as record keepers, police, and teachers. 
During the war against Chaos, the Captains of Law included 
companies of haikjadeam for use against undead troops. The 
haikjadeam were also responsible for security and kept a 
lookout for spies. 

Haikjadeam are paladins of 4th-13th level (ldlO+3). They 
have Strength scores of 18/97, giving them a +2 attack bonus 
and a +5 bonus to damage. Haikjadeam's paladin abilities 
are skewed toward Law and Chaos, rather than Good and 
Evil. For example, they have the ability to detect Chaos and 
their aura of protection is effective against chaotic creatures. 
They can command or turn undead, depending what action 
they deem most lawful under the circumstances. Generally, 
they only command lawful undead. Haikjadeam of 9th level 
and higher can cast spells from the combat, healing, charm, 
divination and law (from the Tome of Magic) spheres. 

Haikjadeam have a base armor class of 3, which improves 
by 1 for every two levels the haikjadeam has gained beyond 
3rd. Haikjadeam are armed just as the houdeam are, though 
they do not have weapon mastery, open hand attacks, or the 
ability to make their swords dance. 

In addition to the spell-like abilities available to all vaati, 
haikjadeam can reveal truth and calm air three times a day. 

Reveal truth functions as a dispel magic spell, but is effective only 
against illusions and other forms of magical deception. The 
spell can destroy illusion magic of all kinds, force polymorphed 
or shape changed creatures back into their true forms, reveal 
invisible beings, and so on. If cast directly on a creature, the tar 
get must attempt a saving throw vs. spells or be forced to speak 
only the complete truth for 2d4 rounds. The target can refuse to 
speak, but evasions of the truth are not possible. 

Calm air quiets all forms of wind in a 30-foot radius around 
the haikjadeam. All winds, magical or natural, are reduced to 
gentle breezes. Creatures from the elemental plane of air can 
not enter the radius-the circle of calm collapses if deliber 
ately forced against a creature that normally would be 
hedged out, just as a protection from evil spell does. All sound- 
based attacks are negated within the radius. The effect lasts 
three rounds per level of the haikjadeam. 

Trygrideam 

The trygrideam are charged with tending all the plants and 
animals in the Vale of Aaqa. It is they, and teams of wer 
gadeam working under their direction, who maintain the 
valley's park-like appearance. The trygrideam also mediate 
any disputes that might arise between vaati and pass judg 
ment on visitors who break vaati law. 

Trygrideam secretly keep contact with the wendeam. They 
are keenly interested in the Rod of Seven Parts and the Queen 
of Chaos, and they stand ready to intervene to keep the Rod 
out of the queen's hands if necessary. 

Trygrideam are druids of 4th-13th level (ldlO+3). They have 
Strength scores of 16, giving them a +1 bonus to damage. Try 
grideam have full druid abilities and can cast spells from the 
sphere of Law in addition to the spheres normally allowed to 
druids. Trygrideam have a base armor class of 3, which 
improves by 1 for every two levels the trygrideam has gained 



Vaati (Wind Dukes) 


beyond 3rd. They carry druidical weapons, but favor staves. 

Despite their lawful alignment, trygrideam follow the 
druidical ethos as explained in the Player's Handbook. They 
differ from other druids in that when they view nature, they 
see proof of a universal order, not a cyclical reality. To them, 
order is the natural state of the universe and Chaos upsets 
that order, bringing destruction. 

In addition to their druidical abilities and the spell-like 
abilities common to all vaati, trygrideam can use the follow 
ing powers three times a day: solid fog, cloudkill, and calm air 
(see above). Once per hour, a Trygrideam can summon a vor 
tex blade. A vortex blade is similar to the magical weapon cre 
ated by the 2nd level priest spell flame blade except that it is a 
blast of high-pressure air that inflicts ld4+6 points of dam 
age. It has no effect on air elemental creatures, and inflicts 
double damage (2d4+12) on earth-based creatures. 

Once a day, a trygrideam of 8th level or higher can sum 
mon one to seven powerful whirlwinds. Each whirlwind is 
seven feet tall and three feet wide at the top. They fly at a 
speed of 21 (MC A), have a THACO of 10, 30 hit points, and 
their creator's armor class. They attack once a round for 4d4 
points of damage. The creator can direct the whirlwinds at 
any distance as long as he keeps them in sight. Controlling 
the whirlwinds requires minimal concentration. Damage to 
the creator does not dispel the whirlwinds, but the creator 
can take no action other than movement while controlling 
them. If the creator is killed or loses consciousness, the whirl 
winds dissipate. A whirlwind can freely attack gaseous crea 
tures; it can also disperse magical clouds. Magical clouds 
with instantaneous durations, such as green dragon breath, 
are unaffected. Permanent clouds are dispersed only as long 
as the whirlwind remains in their areas of effect. If skimming 
along the ground in an area covered with fine dirt, sand, 
dust, ash, or the like, a whirlwind picks up the loose mater 
ial, creating an opaque cloud with a 15-foot radius. Creatures 
caught in the cloud are blinded while they remain inside and 
for one round after they leave. 

Kheirdeam 

The kheirdeam are the vaati's physicians and spiritual coun 
selors. They tend other vaati the way the trygrideam tend the 
animals and plants in the Vale of Aaqa. During the war 
against Chaos, the kheirdeam formed a medical corps that 
cared for the wounded and acted as reserve troops. 

Kheirdeam are clerics of 5th-14th level (ldlO+4). They have 
Strength scores of 16, giving them a +1 bonus to damage. 
Kheirdeam can cast spells from the sphere of Law and all 
spells in the elemental sphere that involve air ( air walk, cloud of 
purification, conjure air elemental/dismiss air elemental, and wind 
walk) in addition to the spheres normally allowed to clerics. 
Kheirdeam have a base armor class of 3, which improves by 1 
for every two levels the trygrideam has gained beyond 3rd. 
They carry clerical weapons, but favor staves. 

In addition to their clerical abilities and the spell-like abili 
ties common to all vaati, kheirdeam can reveal truth and calm 
air three times a day as the haikjadeam do. They can com 
mand or turn undead, depending on what action they deem 
most lawful under the circumstances. 


Vindeam and Bledrudeam 

These two castes are the vaati's wizards. When not busy cast 
ing spells, they function as scholars, philosophers, and advi 
sors. In the war against Chaos they served as support troops 
and magical artillery. Today, they stand ready to defend the 
Vale of Aaqa. They also conduct most of the vaati's business 
outside the valley, serving as ambassadors and troubleshooters. 

Vindeam and bledrudeam are wizards of 4th-13th level 
(ldlO+3). They have Strength scores of 15. 

Vindeam specialize in spells involving the element air or 
gas. If the optional elemental schools from the Tome of Magic 
are in play, Vindeam have all the benefits and restrictions of 
air elemental specialists. 

Bledrudeam are abjuration specialists, as described in the 
Player's Handbook. 

Vindeam and bledrudeam are armor class 4; their armor 
does not improve as they increase in level. They carry wizard 
weapons and favor staves. 

In addition to the spell-like abilities common to all vaati, 
vindeam can cast solid fog and cloudkill once a day and can 
summon whirlwinds three times a day as trygrideam can. 

Bledrudeam have the spell-like powers common to all 
vaati and can cast spell turning once a day. They can also cast 
reveal truth and calm air three times a day as haikjadeam can. 

Wendeam 

The wendeam are a handful of wandering vaati descended 
from the Captain of Law who scattered the pieces of Rod of 
Seven Parts at the battle of Pesh and pursued Miska the Wolf- 
Spider through the planar rift. Because they devote all their 
energies to tracking the Rod as it moves from world to world, 
other vaati see the wendeam as outcasts; only the trygrideam 
understand the value of the wendeam's efforts. 

Wendeam are rangers of 4th-13th level (ldlO+3). They 
have Strength scores of 18/97, giving them a +2 attack bonus 
and a +5 bonus to damage. The wendeam's long struggle 
against the Queen of Chaos has made them lawful good 
(which does nothing to improve their reputation among 
other vaati). They have the normal ranger abilities, and their 
species enemy is spyder-fiends. 

Wendeam have a base armor class of 3, which improves by 1 
for every two levels the wendeam has gained beyond 3rd. Wen 
deam prefer lightweight weapons. Most carry long bows, darts, a 
dagger, and two short swords. They take full advantage of their 
ranger abilities and use a melee weapon in each hand when unar 
mored. Wendeam usually have at least one enchanted melee 
weapon of +1 or greater. Wendeam of 6th level or higher have a 
+1 weapon of some type and a 60% chance for another weapon 
of +2 or better. Wendeam of 10th level or higher have one or two 
+1 weapons and a 60% chance for another weapon of +3 or bet 
ter. Wendeam weapons are standard magical items that do not 
become nonmagical or corrode if separated from their owners. 

Wendeam have all the spell-like powers common to all 
vaati. In addition, they can follow any teleporting creature if 
they can find its tracks, just as a hound of law can. When fol 
lowing a teleporting creature, a wendeam can carry 250 
pounds of additional weight, plus an extra 150 pounds for 
each level the wendeam has attained beyond 10th. 


















Uninvited Guests 




WRT/N- 




"¦ 


































































Major Powers 

• Two segments bestow flight as the 3rd level wizard 
spell fly at will, 

• Three segments add 20% to the wielder's magic 
resistance. The unit can be used as a blunt weapon 
and functions as a horseman's mace +1. These powers 
are continuous and don't require command words. 

• Four segments allow the user to control winds twice a 
day. The unit functions as a horseman's mace +2. 

• Five segments grant the power to shape change as the 
9th level wizard spell once a day. The unit functions 
as a quarter staff +3. 

• Six segments allow the user to wind walk once a day. 
The unit functions as a quarterstaff +4. 

• Seven segments can create a restoration effect, as the 
7th priest spell, once a day. The unit functions as a 
quarterstaff +5. The unit can also be employed as a 
piercing weapon with the same characteristics 
(weapon speed, damage, etc.) as a quarterstaff. 


Resonant Powers 

• Segments 1 and 2: Instead of flight as the wizard 
spell fly, user can, at will, fly at a speed of 24, with 
class A maneuverability. 

• Segments 1,2 and 3: The wielder gains the ability to 
influence creatures from the Elemental Plane of Air. 
No creature native to the plane can approach within 
5 feet of the user unless the user attacks first. Even 
then, the user gains a +2 bonus to armor class and to 
all saving throws. Any damage the user suffers is 
reduced by -2 hit points per die (minimum 1 point 
per die). This power does not require command 
words. 

• Segments 1,2,3 and 4: The wielder gains the ability 
to charm creatures from the Elemental Plane of Air. 
A charm attempt counts as an attack on the creature. 
The wielder cannot attempt to charm the same crea 
ture more than once a day. 

• Segments 1,2,3,4 and 5. The rod bearer can cast 
weather summoning once a day. 

• Segments 1,2,3,4,5, and 6. The wielder can create a 
whirlwind once a day and maintain it for up to 
seven hours; it takes seven rounds to form. The 
wielder and up to six man-sized companions can 
ride the whirlwind, or the wielder can direct it at 
any distance as long as he keeps it in sight. 

The whirlwind (and any passengers) moves at a 
minimum speed of 9, but its top speed is 18; the 
wielder chooses the exact rate. It is 10 feet wide at 
the base and 40 feet wide at the top. The height can 
be from 30 to 70 feet as the wielder chooses. The 
base must always touch land or water. 

The whirlwind buffets anyone caught within it for 
2d6 points of damage each round, but a successful 
saving throw vs. breath weapon negates the dam 
age. Non-aerial creatures with two hit dice or less 
are killed if the saving throw fails. The wielder and 
passengers are not affected. 

Controlling the whirlwind requires minimal con 
centration. Damage to the wielder does not end the 
whirlwind, but the wielder can take no action other 
than movement while controlling it. If the wielder 
loses consciousness or is killed the whirlwind 
dissipates. 

• Segments 1,2,3,4,5,6, and 7. The wielder can cast 
resurrection as the 7th level priest spell, except that 
no resurrection survival check is required. Using 
this power always causes the Rod to scatter. See the 
Breakage section for details. 


1145XXX0601 


(c) 1996 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. 



The Citadel of Chaos 







f, 



' "a V* 1 ' J/ 

**" ¦ 





* r 






j/ v 











J/ ... a, /T 

•- ¦^. 









































































Ini i i 

i 

-I 



























1145XXX060S (c) 19% TSR. Inc. All rights 
























r JmthL 






































Rod Powers 

Powers of Individual Segments 

Each segment of the Rod has its own minor spell 
like power, which requires the user to concentrate 
upon a command word. Invoking a minor power has 
an initiative modifier of 2; it counts as an action for the 
character, but does not require speech and cannot be 
disrupted as a spell can. Minor powers function at 
20th level and are useable by any character. 


1. The 4-inch tip can cure light wounds five times a day. 
The tip's name and the command word for the cure 
light wounds power is Ruat. 

2. The 5-inch segment can create a slow effect once a 
day with a duration of 23 rounds. The name and 
command word is Coelum. 


3. The 6-inch segment can produce haste once a day 
with a duration of 23 rounds. The character 
wielding the segment doesn't age, but everyone else 
who is affected does. The name and command word 
is Fiat. 


4. The 8-inch segment can create a gust of wind five 
times a day. The gust is 10 feet wide and 200 yards 
long. The name and command word is Justitia. 

5. The 10-inch segment provides true seeing once a day 
for 20 rounds. The name and command word is 
Ecce. 


6. The 12-inch segment produces hold monster once a 
day (the effect lasts 20 rounds). The name and 
command word is Lex. 


7. The 15-inch segment can heal once a day. The name 
and command word is Rex. 


1145XXX0606 


(c) 1996 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. 



Uninvited Guests 


















































































i'l 

r ' 


' 





i • tg~- 

3 m 

X\ 

srfM 


iG 







































NIQHT RAIDERJ 

1 square = 5 feet 




rr 

Door 

Secret Door 

Stairs 


? 

Below Level Passage 

Wooden Pilir^g 

Campfire 

m 

ca 

Lever 

Dais 

Ladder 

¦;] 


Ladder Down 

Weapon Rack 

Altar 

Sarcophagus 

m 

Ik*. -¦* 


Statue, Practice Dummy 
Fountain 
Rubble 
Midden 
Glass Panel 
[vered Pit^ 

ITrap 

fii! Claddir$ 

Sinkhole 
Water 

Pressure Plate 
hillside 
Cliff Face 


Covert 

W T 

Metal i 





L2WER 


LEVEL 






































y*w"i 


LEVEL A 


LEVEL 1 


LEVEL 4 


.SPELUNKING 


ToLpwjJ£ 


1 square = 5 fret 
Secret Door 
Staircase 
Bars/PortculSfs 
Illusory Wall 
Sinkhole 

Umber Hullt tunnel 
Below Level PaaSqge 
Ltx%e 

Underwater Area 

Water 

Mud 

('mature Start Location 
I Ifusionary Creatu res 


LEVEL 3 


l_CVf:l 3 
-3W' 


Level ( 
-350' 


AAF Bl 


mm 


I MMfei.itt 




11| 11 ¦ ¦ rn-,v tit- 


UNflffij 



m 




T .ui. | 

j. 


bjf 





> D'Wij 

B - ; r ' J iPt-ij 1 (Ufa-Hrmi 

1 ¦ L, 

.¦jrt, r Li|(t 

























































































































B2 UNINVITED QUEJTJ 




























B3 

TURRET 


MURDER H2LEJ 


u\V 


05 ** 

ClgTER LEVEL 


B4 

BATTLEMENT 


)own 51 




- L -9k 

4" M 

jj 

& : 

* 

, a 

Ft 



¦ 

•*" 


as 


Ap 


Li . % h_ * 


Lyj. % ¦ j - 

L_ .. jfoi¦{•. jmKj 






f _ ¦ ik ¦Hr ^EB 


If Jy j 


& IffiV 


^ . ! ( 


f jtm . , _ | 

Ub lt- i, i 

fc.fr 4 4 a-*' 

B '.jESk 

f'#r 

-TMBPiJ- 

frtif ¦ \ 

r j 1 1 

! Hrvi 

- pm r '•*" 

1 M 

T. ¦-j 

fit# o J 

03HSH 



Cp^L _ iq ^ A 





































































Cl 










































QIANTJ' CAJTLE 

1 square * 5 feet 


Door 

Double Door 
Secret Door 
Window 
Arrow Slit 
Staircase 
Hatch in Cloud 
Trap Door (Floor) 
Curtain/T apestry 
Bars/Portcullis 
Ladder 
Alarm Bell 
Cushioned Bench 



Wardrobe 

Dresser 

Table 

Chair 


Loom 

Privy 

Weapon Rack 



Ballista 

Large Chimney 
Small Chimhey 
Natural Chimney 
Fireplace 
Pile of Straw 
Pile of Boulders 
Griffon Nest 
Murder Hole 
Murder Hole (ceiliqg) 
Sinkhole 
Water 
Solid Cloud 

























Cl THE QK2(JNb FL2SR 


^2 THE M2CJJE 
CIPPER EL25R 


m 1# 161* 




m -'dwm 


\ square ^ . 

K- r-j f>bor 
-Crt-J Secret Door 
Gate 

K -H Window 


| " ] Loft; Overhead 
lj^ ~' Chimney 
E3r Fireplace 

Pi Bod 
y -I stool 

(r) .j Chnir 
Hi Table 
bench 
6i ^ Crates 

Weapon Rack 
^ Barrel 
Curtain 
(r)_ Si abue 
5"; Screen 
m Bucket 
O . Well 
Jd Tub 
Rubble 
An vi I 

Ladder 

i rap Door, Door 
M Trap Door, Ceiling 
9pH Carpet 
H Wood Flnor 
L.d Water 




WV 7 ' 



- 

a 



r 

: dj 



1 


i., it 

UJJu 

l-Uk 

fB 


j :C 

t": 

r $HSi 

1 

rrr 

h.na-ri> . - r. j. . 


1 ; i 

1' 

L., 

m 

I 444---i 

i ; 

7 

i i j 

1 

1 i 

uy 

"CJ". L 

f n 
Lii 








































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































" 



f 




n 









_ 




K°°fJ AND TCJKKETJ 


C4 THE 




i . '¦-¦ 1 

... 

_ 






• 

j 

Ju 

.jrt! 


r 

. 

- 

1 :. 




r .>. 

13 


W 





. 

_ 


•-fi . 



¦v 

¦f 





bl 
















































































aIMI 































































































































THE TEMPLE 

1 square = 5 feel 





P 


- 


Door 

***- 

?=I 

Bench 

Double Door 


Wardrobe 

Secret Door 


Statue 

Tr;jp i i luor, Secret 

tr;> 

Fireplace 

Wini li >w, open 

3 

Ra i i i 

Window, ^lass 

-- 

Marti fe Slnb 

Window. tarrICC J vl: )SS 

* 

Teleporter 

Staircase 

m 

Hot Goafs 

Dais 

m 

Sinkhole 

Pillar 


Natural Chimney 

Altar 

~-Ti ¦ 

Water 

trem Bars 


Wood Floor 
















































































































' 

¦ • 

'W 





' <*)l - 



't 










El THE QITADEL 2E QHA2J 














































MALL 

QE2M2RPM I 




E2 AIJKA'J APARTMENTJ 
AND QE2M2RPHJ 

1 square = 5 feet 



ll-llll IjCVcI p3KM$C 













































5TAIRQAJE s 

<jE2M2RPh 

> ** 


5TAIR MEAD 
QE2M2RPH 

































































uare 






Arrival Gate 
Lake of fire 
Water 

vci - - covered Floor 
Gold Walt 
Cliff/Ledtie 



























































































































































































































































































































































































































E4 AQYDIKEEN'J IJLAND 


Below Ground Areas 
JHj Sinkhole 
JH Contour Line 


































E5 AQYDIKEEN'J LAIR 


1 square * 10 feet 


Water 
Cliff/Lcd$e 
Natural Chimney 





























AIJKA'J APARTMENTJ 


NALL QE2M2RPH 3 


NALL <5E2M2RPN 
PLAN VIEW 






U-f^: 











































A3 AT THE 5IQN 2E 
THE <32LbEN C2CKATKICE 


1 square - S feet 


SpEc^ftr A 


jLqmtz 




•••votitiiift 




__ ^rvripi 









































































