Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 01073 The Dragon's Den"
See other formats
Adventure Pack for the 


1 

(lH 



1 

i 

3 

tL 


l 


7 

f 


1 





; v 

i". 















fi'wV.vi 


League oftK* 
Red Serpent 


Fable of Contents 


League "f ihe Heel Serpent 
The Briefing 
The Adventure 
The Journey Back 


Credits 


..Km Rolston 

Dori "The Barbarian'' Watry 

.. Brin r A. I Irani 

J- II I , 

. Robin Raab 

.John St ate in a 

.'lerry Dykstra 

.Peggy Cooper 

.Dennis Kauih 

..Tracey Zamagne 

. .Sarah Frggrstad 

.Stephanie labal 


Design . . . . 

Lditing ... 

Product Manager. 

Covet \rt 

Poster Map Art & Counter Art 
Stand-up Character Art 

Interior Art . 

Art Coordinator. 

Cartography . 

Typography . 

Production . 

Graphic Design . . 


I NK. In. Ml R. "nnl Pnni.il in it*. I S \ 

DINt.K INS \ I >l< M •( INS .in. I I 11 .*n- i.'Kiurnil ir.*lrtnntks iwiir.1 t.\ INK. tin 
l lw I SR |im(ii S .1 iiwkiiMili iwnnl In ISK Itn 

K.imlotn lln.i-. jii.I iih ..tlih.it. i"Mn)Miiit-* Ii.im m.hI.Imi.I. "Ii*.i iliuti.ni m;lit* in th"' Imm 4 > ii.mI. Ii"i I n 
l."I. 
l.itiK.Mi(.' |>ri"lui i* I SR In* I >1-1 rit""i".-.| i.i itn Umk nnl n.uli m ih.' t nit.il Kinc'litm l"v I sR I i.| 

iliMiilmlr.l in ill.' Iiiy .mil Imlihs ri.nli- l>\ t. v.nii il iIimmImiIi.m 
I hi' iii.iiIiiI.' i" |iint.i l.il niwtrr iti* .n|ivny,*li< li.w* <•( itn t nn.il St.iir%nl Aiim iii .• \m nun nr iiii.niihini - 

i.l iti. hi.H i ii.il in .ii'miik |ii.'m iii.il In .' in i" |initkilil miiImhii iln i v|ii. s% mm. ii |Mt iiiivm.iii nl I SR tin 


TSR. In< 
POB 7")ti 
I .akr (ieneva 
VVI VI147 USA 


TSR Ltd 

120 Church Knd, Chcrr\ Hinton 
('.ainhridge CBl 41 .B 
United Kingdom 


ISBN j urn'• 

























League of the ReO SeRpent 


Anandak, a red dragon, has taken over an abandoned dwarven 
stronghold as his lair. He has also assembled together a rough con 
federation of monsters that acts as his bodyguard. 

Anandak is preparing to enter into an alliance with the Black 
Prince, the March Lord Draven. The plan is for Anandak's mon 
ster allies to terrorize the lands north and east of Knacker Knob 
while the Black Prince, on pretext of marching to the aid of Knack 
er Knob, takes control of Knacker Knob and the surrounding re 
gion. An emissary from the Black Prince, Lord Gonzaga, is 
currently in the dungeon, and he is in possession of papers that 
might reveal the Black Prince's treasonous plot. 

The lair is horribly overcrowded because monsters of all tribes 
and gangs are gathered to take counsel with the red dragon. Mon 
sters are sleeping in the hallways because there is so little room, and 
the antagonism between races is at flash point. The PCs may be 
able to fan these resentments into intermonster battles. 

Adventure Overview 

League of the Red Serpent is the third dragon's lair to conquer, and it is 
recommended that players complete the other two adventures be 
fore starting this one. 

League of the Red Serpent is designed for four characters of 3rd to 
5th levels. If there are more than four players or if the characters 
are of higher levels, the DM should make some of the encounters 
more difficult. The DM will need to have the black basic 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) Game so that he or she has the 
rules and additional stand-ups. Otherwise, the only things needed 
to play this adventure are a few friends, some paper and pencils, 
and the desire to rid Knacker Knob of a fiendish red dragon! 

DM Notes 

Here are some notes for the DM to keep in mind when running this 
adventure. 

• Boxed text: Boxed text should be read aloud to give players a 
basic description of the scenes, events, monsters, and characters 
they encounter at that point of the adventure. If preferred, the DM 
can use his or her own words instead as long as the important infor 
mation in the boxed text is given. 

• Dwarven stonecraft: The beautiful dwarven stonework here 
is obscured by years of torch soot and neglect. The hallway ceilings 
are low enough to force tall humans and elves to stoop, but the 
rooms have 10-foot-high ceilings. 

• Doors: The doors are ancient, alchemically treated oak and 
virtually indestructible. Each door has two locks, requiring sepa 
rate keys. Before an alarm is sounded, the doors are unlocked; af 
terward, the doors are all locked. A thief has some chance of 
picking these multiple locks, but without keys obtained from wan 
dering monsters, the Guard Captain, or from the armory in Loca 
tion #4, the PCs will find the many locked doors a serious problem. 

• Light: All rooms and passages except Locations #20 and 21 
are lit by crude, smoky, foul-smelling one-hour torches set in 
sconces every 20 feet. 

• Ore and bugbear speech: Elf and dwarf PCs speak ore, so 
these PCs should normally be told what the ores are saying. The 
bugbears speak Common because so many of them have different 
dialects, so the PCs will understand them. 


• Wererat speech: PCs cannot understand the wererat dialect. 
The DM can simulate wererat speech by placing "skv" in front of 
any vowel sound and ending the vowel sound with any consonant 
sound-for example, "skvayth-skveesh-skivied-skvot-skvuk." 
When speaking to the other races in this dungeon, the wererats 
speak ore. 

• Monster tactics: If the PCs are quiet, cautious, and plan 
their attacks, they will be able to take on one roomful of monsters at 
a time. If they make a lot of noise or take more than three or four 
rounds to clear out any one room, monsters in the next room will 
hear the disturbance and spread the alarm. 

If the PCs are fewer than four in number and if they are low- 
level (1st- or 2nd-level only), the DM may want to assume that the 
doors and walls are so thick that noise cannot be heard in neighbor 
ing rooms. This will give a weak party a better chance to survive. 

On the other hand, if the PCs have a large party and if they have 
several spellcasters who have plenty of deep spells, the DM may 
want to assume that monsters in neighboring rooms automatically 
hear any noise and come bursting in to join the combat. This is 
especially true for the House Guard's rooms (Locations #1-5), the 
Ready Rats' rooms (Locations #12-13), and Gutrug's Raiders' 
rooms (Locations #6, 8, 9, and 10). 

• After the alarm has sounded: Any time a wandering monster 
or a monster from Locations #1-13 manages to escape from an at 
tack or lives long enough to shout an alarm, the DM may decide 
that an alarm has been sounded and that the stronghold is on de 
fense alert. Once an alarm is sounded, all doors in the dungeon are 
double-locked, and keys must be obtained from wandering mon 
sters, the Guard Captain, or from the patrol lockers in Location 
#2. Further, the three main combat units-the House Guard, the 
Ready Rats, and Gutrug's Raiders-work together efficiendy as 
combat troops. 

If the PCs are numerous, experienced, and well equipped with 
spellcasters, the DM may need to be aggressive and clever in using 
these troop units to give the players a challenging fight. On the 
other hand, if the PCs are few and weak, the monster troops should 
give the PCs a break by attacking in smaller groups and by retreat 
ing to nearby rooms to bind wounds and argue loudly about tactics 
after a few rounds of melee. 

• Gutrug's Raiders: This band of ores, bugbears, and a trained 
troll lived by raiding other humanoid tribes in the Seatstone High 
lands. (Gutrug's bugbears are skilled in training and managing 
trolls, and as such they are as important as shamans.) They have 
joined Anandak because the dragon has promised them abundant 
booty and easy pickings in raids on Knacker Knob. Gutrug doesn't 
trust Anandak or the other allies, but he does see the advantage of 
numbers in such a venture. As such, he is trying to control his irri 
tation with the poor housing and Anandak's abusive manner, con 
tenting himself with the prospect of rich loot in a campaign against 
Knacker Knob. 

Ores grunt and growl a lot to preface and punctuate their state 
ments; for example, "Grrah! Ratmen everywhere! Filthy beasts! 
Grrah! Dragon ought to bake the lot! Ugh." Bugbears snivel and 
whine to superiors, then complain bitterly to one another. ''Oh, 
yes, Gutrug, right away your lordship!" (Turns to companion.) 
''Fat moron. He always picks on me! I'll do it when it suits me." 


2 



league of the ReO SeRpent 


The troll does not understand anything on the first, second, or 
even third explanation. "Uhhh . . . what was it you said? The next 
thing? The one that starts, er, let me see, ahhh, 'Go down the 
hall . . . ,* you know, that one?" After decades of training, the troll 
at least knows immediately to hit back if attacked. This is quite an 
accomplishment because less-well-trained war trolls often need to 
be struck two or three times before they go into action. 

• Ready Rats: For years the Ready Rats have managed a pre 
carious existence on the edge of human society in the Knacker 
Knob region. Their attempts to recruit (that is, infect humans with 
lycanthropy) have been unsuccessful; the Churches of Greetland 
offer to cure disease for free anyone suspected of having been bitten 
by a werecreature. 

Because of the alliance with Anandak, Skvakeek hopes to take 
captives and infect them with lycanthropy. (The human prisoners 
in Location #15 have been bitten but have not yet begun to show 
signs of the disease.) The Ready Rats' hunting rat packs are as 
disciplined and intelligent as trained dog packs. They are as dearly 
prized by the wererats as hunting hounds are prized by lords and 
ladies of the realm. 

The DM should think long, pointy rat noses and twitching whis 
kers when speaking or acting out wererat actions. He or she can 
snifT around, then wrinkle and wiggle his or her nose energetically 
after each speech. 

• Lord Gonzaga, envoy of the Black Prince: Gonzaga is a 
skilled, intelligent, and capable diplomat. If he were not also 
greedy and ambitious, he could be a good and honorable knight of 
Greetland. He has already decided to come to an agreement with 
Anandak, but he is stalling in order to study Anandak and his 
allies-the better to know them and their weaknesses when they 
must be destroyed. 

Gonzaga has concluded that Anandak's allies will desert him at 
the first opportunity. He is confident that once Anandak and his 
forces have ravaged Knacker Knob, the Black Prince will be able to 
kill Anandak, disperse the dragon's allies, and portray themselves as 
the valiant liberators-and rightful protectors-of the lands of 
Knacker Knob. 

Tb give him time to think and observe others, Lord Gonzaga 
often takes a pinch of snuff from a small box he keeps in an inner 
coat pocket. He pokes the snuff delicately into his nose, pulls a lace 
handkerchief from his sleeve, pats his nose daintily, tucks the hand 
kerchief back into his sleeve, and then clears his throat noisily be 
fore speaking. He performs this elaborate and time-consuming 
ceremony to provoke impatient characters into rash acts or speech. 

• Gorol, Wortley *s poly morphed bugbear agent: Dregdak, as 
Gorol is known in his bugbear form, is serving in the bugbear 
guard that defends the entrance to the stronghold. What Wortley 
doesn't tell the PCs about Gorol is that the agent accepted this mis 
sion as an alternative to a lengthy prison sentence for theft. Gorol is 
a three-time loser and old enough at 45 that he might die in prison; 
this extremely dangerous mission seemed pleasant by comparison. 
If he performs well, Wortley has promised Gorol a pardon. As 
such, Gorol is highly motivated, loyal to the mission, and will assist 
the PCs in any way he can. However, Gorol is by nature a schem 
ing, sneaky, and unreliable character. He lies easily and without 
guilt and makes a great show of acting fearlessly while avoiding 
danger by volunteering energetically for safe duties. As the most 


important NPC in this scenario, the DM should give a special ef 
fort to make Gorol a vivid and entertaining character. Here are a 
few suggestions for the DM to follow: 

1. Get a cap or hat (ideally a red one, but any will do). When 
acting as Gorol, put the hat on to remind the players that the char 
acter speaking is Gorol. 

2. When speaking as Gorol, take a pencil and bite on it. Speak 
through the teeth and the pencil. This gives a kind of mumbled 
speech that fits a sneaky thief, and the action again reminds the 
players that the DM is in character as Gorol. 

3. Make the contrast between what Gorol says he will do and what 
Gorol actually does as obvious as possible. When speaking to the PCs, 
Gorol volunteers for dangerous duty, offering to scout ahead or guard 
the rear against pursuers. Then, immediately after making such of 
fers, Gorol does something other than what he said he would do. For 
example, Gorol first offers to check a door for traps ("Oh, no, masters, 
dangerous! Let me check it for traps! Dangerous, dangerous, and 
faithful Gorol must take the risk."). Then he makes an elaborate show 
of examining the door for a very long time-so long that the PCs will 
get impatient and push past to open the door. Or, if combat threatens, 
Gorol volunteers for front-line duty, but the DM should place Gorol's 
stand-up in the rear with the wizards. When challenged on this, Gorol 
always has good excuses (" Very dangerous! Must check carefully, care 
fully!" or "But suddenly I think, 'Oh, the wizards, they are in great 
danger, great danger, so I go to protect them!' "). In fact, Gorol 
doesn't realize he is being untruthful-he sincerely believes his offers 
and excuses. 

The players will identify Gorol immediately by three distinct de 
tails: 1) he wears a cap, 2) he mumbles when he talks, and 3) he 
says one thing and does another. The cap and the pencil between 
the teeth are useful props-not just to show the players who is talk 
ing, but to physically remind the DM to shift out of the Dungeon 
Master role and into the role of Gorol. 

* Dungeon politics: The dwarves built this stronghold for a 
guard unit of 20. At present there are over 80 humanoids packed in 
here, and none of them get along well. The ores of the dragon's 
personal guard have been kicked out of their barracks to house the 
Black Prince's envoy. The bugbear guards have been kicked out of 
their barracks to house the ores. The poor bugbears are now forced 
to sleep on the floor in Location #2. 

Gutrug's Raiders, a band of ores, bugbears, and a single troll, 
are ruled by a huge, ugly ore chieftain named Gutrug. They are 
quartered in corridors along the east side of the stronghold; even 
Gutrug and his shaman arc sleeping on the floor, and they're none 
too pleased with the indignity of their accommodations. 

The Ready Rats, a clan of wererats accompanied by giant rat 
hunting packs, are under the control of a ratman named Skvakeek. 
They are bivouacked in storage niches along corridors to the west. 
Their accommodations are as bad as the Raiders' and their tem 
pers as frayed. They insist on letting their giant rat packs run loose 
in Location #11, which makes Captain Baglips of the Home Guard 
furious. None of the Home Guard or Raiders members will go 
down the west passages without threat of severe punishment. 

Mort the hill giant is stupid and annoyingly friendly; he wants to 
have nice, long chats with anyone who comes through his room. 
He quickly turns nasty if folk are too busy (in his eyes, too rude) to 
talk with him. 


3 




League of the Red Seupent 


Haurarra the harpy in a pleasant mood is a vicious, treacherous 
monster; being stuck in a cramped underground vault has done 
nothing to sweeten her temper. All the ores, bugbears, and 
wererats-even Baglips, Gutrug, and Skvakeek-are unnerved by 
her silent, glaring malevolence. They all give her a wide berth 
when summoned to conferences in Location #19. 

Luzgar the ore lord is charmed by Anandak into believing that he 
rules the League and that Anandak is simply Luzgar's faithful 
counselor and assistant. Luzgar is told that he must protect Anan 
dak 's life at all costs, since Anandak is responsible for Luzgar's cur* 
rent good fortune. Luzgar now never leaves Location #20; he 
receives all his reports of events from Anandak. Since the dragon 
has recently taken direct control of the allies, Anandak now views 
Luzgar to be little more than an expendable bodyguard. 

Anandak has given stem orders to all parties to keep their tem 
pers in check, but he overestimates their fear and subservience to 
his domineering will. He also underestimates the danger of sudden 
and impulsive hostilities in natural enemies kept in such close 
quarters. Anandak believes that the presence of all these fierce al 
lies will impress Lord Gonzaga, the Black Prince's envoy. Gonzaga 
is impressed, but mostly by Anandak's clumsiness in handling his 
subordinates. 

• Keeping track of NPC companions: Five nonplayer charac 
ters (NPCs) in this dungeon may join the PC party: Gorol, the 
polymorphed bugbear; Lord Gonzaga, the Black Prince's envoy; 
and Blain, Nithi, and Vilbert, the imprisoned adventurers found 
in Location #15. The DM should be sure to represent any NPC 
companions on the map with appropriate stand-up counters; these 
counters serve as reminders to both the DM and the players that 
the actions of these NPCs must be accounted for. Blain, Nithi, and 
Vilbert behave like retainers and will follow any reasonable orders. 
In general, the players may move their counters and direct their 
actions without guidance from the DM. 

However, the DM must personally control the movement and 
actions of Gorol and Lord Gonzaga. Gorol tries to be friendly and 
cooperative and usually does what the PCs tell him, but the DM 
should keep the agent's sneaky and unreliable nature in mind as he 
or she moves Gorol's counter and declares his actions. 

Lord Gonzaga is an enemy pretending to cooperate while wait 
ing for an opportunity to betray the PCs and escape. The DM's 
movement of Gonzaga's counter and the declarations of his actions 
should always appear to suit the PCs' requests while actually plac 
ing Gonzaga in the best position to make an escape. Gonzaga al 
ways tries to move to the front, rear, or side of the party, preferably 
as close to a door as possible. When combat occurs, Gonzaga de 
clares his intent to defend the party, but he actually moves to escape 
if possible. To prevent his escape, the PCs will need to guard him 
carefully. 

• Anandak, the red dragon: When Anandak wants something 
from someone (either the envoy Lord Gonzaga or the PCs if they 
threaten his life), the dragon is sweet and polite in a transparendy 
oily and manipulative manner. With subordinates and allies he is 
harsh, sarcastic, abusive, and severe, blaming them for all prob 
lems. He curses their stupidity, laziness, and cowardice and threat 
ens them with imprisonment, torture, or death for failure to 
perform satisfactorily. Anandak believes that this is the way all true 
rulers act, and he will make no attempt to conceal his cruel manner 


from Gonzaga or the PCs; in fact, he is proud of his management 
techniques and brags about how thoroughly he has intimidated his 
servants and allies into serving his will. 

When in human form, Anandak tilts his head back and peers 
haughtily down his nose at others when he speaks-unless he is 
buttering someone up, in which case he smiles broadly and nods 
his head agreeably. When in dragon form, Anandak likes to sit 
back on his haunches and flap his wings to give an impression of 
size. To suggest this, the DM can stand up, arch and twist his or 
her neck, and peer down at the players while lazily flapping his or 
her arms like huge, ponderous wings. 

• Anandak's tactics: In his overweening pride, Anandak has 
never imagined that anyone could penetrate his defenses; therefore 
he will be totally unprepared when the PCs begin their attacks. 
Though individually a dangerous opponent, he is a poor general. 
His idea of a good order is "Go kill them, or I'll kill you!" Each of 
the three main combat units in the dungeon (the House Guard ores 
and bugbears, the Ready Rats, and Gutrug's Raiders) works inde 
pendently; rather than cooperate, each is likely to take a mixed me 
lee as an opportunity to attack one another. Clever use of Gorol's 
appearance and magical spells such as charm person can be used to 
trick these groups into fighting one another. 

Mort the hill giant, Haurarra the harpy, and Luzgar the ore lord 
are under Anandak's personal command. Usually his orders are 
simple: "Stay here and kill anything that comes near me." The 
giant, harpy, and ore are completely loyal to Anandak and will do 
anything he says, no matter how dangerous or foolish his com 
mands seem. 

One effective tactic Anandak may use is having Haurarra fetch 
the charmed prisoners from Location #15 to the lair where Anandak 
plans to set a trap. Anandak's use of these charmed NPCs as shock 
troops makes the final battle very difficult and should be considered 
only if: 

1) the PCs have been careless in their attacks and have given 
Anandak time to think and plan his defenses, or 

2) the PCs are many, experienced, and equipped with several 
spellcasters. 

Monsters 

Throughout the course of this adventure, the characters will con 
front dangerous monsters. When such encounters occur, informa 
tion about each monster is presented as follows. 

Name of Monster (number encountered): AC (armor 
class); HD (hit dice); hp (hit points); MV (movement 
rate); #AT (number of attacks); THACO (see below); 

Dmg (damage inflicted per attack); Save as (what the 
monster's saving throw is based on); ML (morale rating); 

AL (alignment); XP (experience reward for defeating the 
monster); Treasure (how much treasure the monster has). 

One of the entries, THACO, may be new to beginning players 
and DMs. It stands for "To Hit Armor Class 0." To determine the 
roll a monster needs to hit a character with a specific armor class, 
simply subtract the target's AC from the monster's THACO num 
ber. Thus, if a monster's THACO is 19 and its target is AC 3, the 
monster needs to roll a 16 or better to hit the character. 


4 




League of the Re6 Secpent 


Wandering Monsters 

Roll ld6 every other turn to see if a wandering monster enters the 
room or passage. Wandering monsters are never encountered in 
Locations #20 or 21. The Dungeon Master should feel free to use 
whatever monsters he or she thinks appropriate for the scenario, or 
the DM can use the following table for generating wandering mon 
sters. 

Note: All wandering monsters carry the two keys necessary to 
lock and unlock the doors. Once the alarm has been given, the PCs 
almost certainly must use a set of these keys to travel through the 
dungeon. 


League 

of the Red Serpent Wandering Monster Table 

ld20 

Roll 

Monster 

No. 

Appearing 

1-4 

Bugbear archer 

1 

5-8 

Bugbear team 

ld4 

9-12 

Ore 

1 

13-14 

Squabbling ores 

2 

15-16 

Wererat and rat pack 

l/ld6 

17-18 

Giant* 

1 

19-20 

Harpy* 

1 

• If this creature has been killed, ld4 ores appear instead. 


Some additional notes on the wandering monsters included in 
the above table are as follows. 

• Bugbear archer: If no alarm has been given, the bugbear is 
whistling to himself and twirling his short bow like a baton, which 
gives him a + 2 penalty to surprise. If an alert has been given, how 
ever, he sneaks along from cover to cover, scanning warily for am 
bushes. 

• Bugbear team: If no alarm has been sounded, the bugbears 
are complaining about the food, the overcrowding, the rude visi 
tors, the air quality, and the persistent persecution of the bugbear 
race-a +2 penalty to surprise. If an alarm has been sounded, 
they move carefully, with one hanging back to give cover fire while 
the others advance. 

• Ore: Grumbling to himself, this ore strides angrily through 
rooms and passages looking for a bugbear to kick. If an alarm has 
been sounded, he kicks things over and jabs his spear into potential 
hiding places, looking for intruders to vent frustration and anger 

on. 

• Squabbling ores: One ore, smug and sneering, walks ahead 
of another ore who shouts and curses angrily. If no alarm has been 
given, the second ore is protesting an insult and demanding an 
apology. If an alarm has been sounded, the second ore is blaming 
the first ore for careless guard patrols. 

• Wercrat and rat pack: The wererat and ld6 giant rats go 
snifTing along looking for unfamiliar smells. They are always alert, 
regardless of whether an alarm has been sounded. Rather than give 
battle, they retreat and report the location of intruders. 


• Giant: Mort's supposed to be patrolling, but he thinks of this 
as an opportunity to have a nice chat with his friends. If he runs 
into the PCs, he addresses them as old pals and tries to strike up a 
conversation, quite unaware that he has never seen the player 
characters before. 

• Harpy: Haurarra is alert, looking for trouble, and in a foul 
mood. If she doesn't find trouble, she'll make trouble. No matter 
how quiet and how well hidden the PCs may be, she'll sniff them 
out and attack, singing her deadly siren song. 

DM Reference Map 

In addition to the large poster map, which the DM will use with the 
players so that they can position their stand-ups, a copy of the 
League of the Red Serpent map is included on the following page. 
This map, for the DM's use only, shows positions of monsters, 
traps, and other important features. 



5 






Jjjjj 

>¦' >C t>i 

1 H 
jJJihj 


























































































the BRiepnq 


The DM should pass out each player's appropriate character 
stand-up (or have them use the stand-ups that came with the 
D&D(r) Game black boxed set). If the players want ready-made 
PCs, they can use the game cards, which have PC statistics on the 
back; these cards correspond to stand-ups. 

The players should have already read the "Wanted-Bold Ad 
venturers!" handout and know what's in store for them, particu 
larly if they have defeated the other two dragons. 

When everything is ready, the DM should tell the players that 
Bailiff Wortley hands the players a map. (The DM can place the 
map on the table.) Wortley has the following to say. 


"The rolling limestone uplands along the Iron River basin 
are ore country. The region is rugged, but the land is good. 
When cleared of monsters, it would be excellent farmland. 

"The barbaric humanoid tribes of the region are organized in 
a loose confederation-the 'League of the Red Serpent' in 
Common. I've long suspected that the League has secret deal 
ings with the Black Prince, but bringing charges of treason 
against March Lord Draven-who is King Ganyard's cousin- 
without irrefutable evidence would be foolish. 

"I have planted a spy in the League, a loyal agent of mine 
who has been polymorphed into a bugbear. Gorol, or Dregdak as 
he is now known, is a guard in the League's headquarters. The 
headquarters, by the way, are a former dwarven fortress. 

"Gorol has sent us this map and the following information: 
An envoy from the Black Prince is currently in residence at the 
stronghold. Rumor suggests that the Black Prince and the 
League are trying to come to terms on some plot." Wortley 
turns to Sascia and gestures for her to speak. 

Sascia clears her throat, then begins. "The three major races 
represented in the League-ores, bugbears, and wererats-are 
openly hostile toward one another. They are only held together 
by the ambitious schemes and commanding personality of 
Luzgar the ore lord, the ostensible dictator of the League. 

"Luzgar is only a figurehead, however, possibly charmed or 
impersonated in polymorpked form. The real power in the 
League, according to Gorol, is a red dragon-probably the very 
same red dragon raiding farm settlements north of Knacker 
Knob. Gorol says it's a small red, no more than 50 years old, 
but almost certainly a spellcaster. 

"Gorol will arrange to be captured by you and will assist you 
in your quest. You can recognize him by the red cap he wears; 
please be careful not to slay him. 

"Your objectives are as follows: 1) Seek out Gorol, capture 
him, and get a full report. 2) Get evidence of any cooperation 
between the League and the Black Prince. 3) Slay or subdue the 
red dragon who rules the League of the Red Serpent." 


Wortley provides the party with some equipment to help them on 
their adventure, explaining as he hands things out. 

• TVo silence 15' radius scrolls. "Cast these on a fighter and get 
him into hand-to-hand combat with the dragon-that'll keep the 
dragon from casting spells." 

• Six resist fire scrolls. "Provides some protection against red 


dragon breath and fireballs." 

• Two continual light gems in heavy, opaque leather pouches. 
"You've seen these before." 

• Three potions of healing. "Hopefully you will not need more 
than these three." 

• One potion of invisibility. "Wish I could get you more. If you 
use it, charge it against your contract fee; that'll be 1,000 gp. If you 
don't use it, we won't charge you for it. Should last an hour or 
more for one person, or ten minutes each for six uses." 

• Three knock scrolls. "These should come in handy in a 
stronghold like you're about to enter." 

• Three magic missile scrolls. "Just in case you spell yourself 
dry and get in a jam." Each scroll creates one magic missile spell that 
does ld6 -?* 1 points of damage. 

• Six neutralize poison scrolls. "Again, just a precaution. If you 
don't use them, bring them back." 

• One dispel magic scroll (clerical). "With the Deacon's bless 
ing. The Deacon is a lOth-level Patriarch, so the spell should work 
against anything you encounter." 

• One raise dead scroll (clerical). "1 guess you know what this 
is for. The Deacon wishes you luck and hopes you won't need this." 
The scroll raises any human, dwarf, halfling, or elf from the dead. 
The recipient returns to life with 1 hit point; he cannot fight, cast 
spells, use abilities, carry heavy loads, or move faster than half 
speed. These penalties disappear after 14 days of bed rest, but re 
covery cannot be speeded by magical means. 



7 












the adventupe 


The DM will need to use a number of stand-ups from the black 
basic DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) Game, and he or she should 
have those ready. If a location calls for more stand-ups than there 
are monsters, the DM can substitute other monster stand-ups. 

When the player characters are ready to begin, the DM should 
read aloud the following. 

You look over the League of the Red Serpent map, noting 
the stronghold entrance and the landmarks to look for. Your 
party reaches the entrance after three days of uneventful wil 
derness travel. 

The entrance is a dwarven stonework wall set in a deep de 
pression at the edge of a limestone cliff. In the center of the wall 
is an ancient, iron-bound oak door. The trails outside the en 
trance are usually on limestone outcrops. Footprints are mud 
dled by heavy traffic, but you recognize the marks of giants, 
ores, and bugbears. 


Players can place their stand-ups in the entrance. The DM 
should put light markers by the PCs carrying light sources. 

The door is double-locked to discourage wizards and thieves. 
The original dwarf lock alarm is rusty and poorly maintained. 
Each time the lock is picked or knocked, a listening character may 
hear a muffled "clank" within. The bugbear guards arc busy 
squabbling among themselves and don't notice the noise, but the 
PCs should be nervous. 

Location #1. Entry Chamber 

The room is dimly lit by a few sputtering torches. No light 
can be seen through the seven 4-inch-wide arrow slits on the 
south wall, but through them you hear several bugbears com 
plaining bitterly about watch assignments. The heavy oak doors 
to the cast and west each have two keyholes set one above the 
other. 


If the PCs knock the outer door open, whisper, and attempt to move 
quietly, the bugbears don't notice their entry. If the PCs listen care 
fully for several rounds, they hear one of the bugbears say, "Look, 
Dregdak, you said you'd take first watch tonight." If they listen for 
a full turn, they hear the bugbears grumbling about the "ratboys 
what's clutterin' up the halls" and "Gutrug's filthy lot what's 
muckin' about and bossin' like they was kings." If they listen for 
more than a turn, one of the bugbears says, "Isn't it about time for 
a patrol?" The DM should pretend to roll for wandering monsters 
behind the DM screen. No matter the die roll, monsters appear, 
but they appear in Location #2. 

A character who has infravision can look through the arrow slits 
and observe Location #2 (sec the description below). Any wander 
ing monsters appearing in this room have come to report the end of 
their patrol. They knock on the door of Location #3 and shout, 
"Patrol ended, sir! Transferring the keys." They then give the keys 
to two of the bugbears (possibly Gorol/Dregdak, if the DM 
chooses), who grab their shields and swords and go grumbling off 
on patrol. The patrol then returns to its appropriate sleeping area. 

Sleep spells can be cast through the arrow slits, but if even one 
bugbear remains awake, he gives the alarm and things should be 


very tough for the PCs. Starting a fight in Location #1 is a bad 
idea, since it almost certainly alerts the dungeon to the presence of 
intruders and leaves the bugbears to fire arrows at the PCs through 
the well-protected arrow slits. 

Normally the two doors are double-locked and only patrols and 
the Guard Captain carry keys, but the doors are currently open to 
permit visitors to travel freely. If an alarm is given, however, all 
doors are again double-locked; the PCs will need to get keys from 
wandering monsters, the Guard Captain, or from Location #4. 

Location #2. Guard Room 

Four bugbears dressed in leather armor are crouched down 
on the floor playing some sort of game with rocks and sticks. At 
their sides are their bows and arrow quivers. One of the bug 
bears wears a jaunty red cap. Some short swords and shields 
lean against six bedrolls, and six backpacks are stacked along 
the south wall. 


At the first sight of the PCs, Gorol/Dregdak throws his arms wide, 
gives a blood-curdling scream, cries out in Common, "Aiyec! 
They got me!" and drops to the floor and plays dead (unless, of 
course, the PCs throw a sleep spell over all the bugbears). The other 
bugbears put up a spirited fight for one round; then, if it looks 
hopeless, they also scream and play dead. 

Two more bugbears are wrapped up in their bedrolls on the floor 
along the far west wall. They arc light sleepers (as is any sensible 
bugbear in the company of ores). They are up and armed at the 
least disturbance, shouting to the Guard Captain in Location #3 
and the ore guard in Location #5 for help. However, if the other 
bugbears arc instantly silenced, the two bugbears don't want to be 
dead heroes and are easily persuaded to stay silent and surrender. 

Once the PCs have Gorol/Dregdak, he insists on joining their 
party and pretending to be a captive dragged around by the PC 
intruders. He asks the PCs to tie his hands together with a false 
knot and to abuse him whenever the League members might be 
watching. . 

He reports the following information to the PCs. 

"1. The Black Prince's envoy, Lord Gonzaga, is in Location 
#7. He's nobody's fool, but he doesn't look like a fighter. 

"2. Locations #16-20 and the lair are for bosses only-no un 
derlings permitted. A giant and a harpy guard these rooms, I 
hear. 

"3. Some human and demihuman prisoners in Location #15. 
Don't know anything about them. 

"4. Lots of giant rats and wererats in the west corridors. Qui 
et and alert types, could be dangerous. 

"5. Ore, bugbear, and troll raiders in the east corridors. Bad- 
tempered and vicious. Got a shaman, too, so watch out. 

"6. Doors are locked if there's a fuss. Need two separate keys, 
but the keys work for all doors. Watch out for patrols; they come 
by every 10 or 20 minutes." 


Gorol does not tell the PCs that he is a thief, but he does offer to 
check for traps and to pick locks when necessary, so the PCs may 
figure it out. Otherwise Gorol follows PC orders as long as they 


8 








the A&ventuRe 


don't put him in danger. If given an order that might be danger 
ous, he pretends to cooperate, but stalls instead. 

Bugbears (5): AC5; HD 3 + 1; hp 11, 14, 17, 18, 20; MV 
90' (30'); #AT 1, short bow or short sword; THACO 16; 

Dmg ld6 + 1; Save as F3; ML 9; AL C; XP 50; Treasure 
nil. 

Gorol/Dregdak (NPC): AC5; HD 4; hp 21; MV 90' 
(30'); #AT 1, short bow or short sword; THACO 19; Dmg 
ld6 + 1; Save as T4; ML 12; AL N; XP None; Treasure 
nil. Although appearing as a bugbear, Gorol has all the 
abilities of a 4th-lcvel thief. 

Location #3. Baglips's Quarters 

If the PCs have made a lot of noise in Location #2 or if the alarm 
has sounded, then Baglips is not here but is hiding in ambush in 
Location #4. If this is not the case, read the following. 

7'his room is comfortably furnished with a table and chairs, a 
bed and chest, and a thick bearskin rug on the floor. When the 
door opens, the huge ore dressed in chain armor sitting at the 
table looks up with an angry expression and says in ore, "What 
d'yuh want?" 

If the PCs enter and attack, Baglips grabs his sword and shield 
and defends himself. If the PCs pretend to be on official business of 
some sort, Baglips is puzzled for one round, then attacks. 

Baglips (Ore Guard Captain): AC4; HD 4; hp 25; MV 
120 4 (40'); #AT 1 sword; THACO 14 (Strength bonus); 
Dmg ld8 + 2 (Strength bonus); Save as F4; ML 12; AL 
C; XP 125; Treasure (see below). 

Kept hidden under his chain mail, the Guard Captain has the 
keys to all the dungeon doors as well as the padlocks to the patrol 
lockers found in the Armory. Baglips's personal treasures are hid 
den in the Armory behind the south patrol locker. 

Location #4. Armory 

Two large cabinets on the north and south walls arc barred 
and secured by padlocks. 

The patrol lockers contain special supplies in case of attack by pow 
erful enemies. The lockers are kept locked to avoid pilfering. The 
south locker contains four flasks of oil and four potions oj healing. 
The north locker contains four sets of keys to the dungeon doors, 
20 arrows + 7, two daggers + 7, and a potion of strength. 

The Guard Captain's treasure is hidden behind the south patrol 
locker. Only if the PCs specifically state that they arc moving the 
locker-a task requiring four characters-do they find this cache, 
which includes 50 gp, three gems, and one potion of healing. 

Location #5. Ore House Guard 

Four ores in leather armor are lounging against the north wall 
swapping lies while three loudly snoring ores are flopped on 
crude mattresses along the south wall. 


The snoring ores may be slain by a single blow if the party gains 
surprise; otherwise they wake immediately, roll off the mattresses, 
and come up fighting. 

Ores (7): AC6 (AC7 if just awakened); HD 1; hp 3, 4, 5, 

5, 7, 8, 8; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword (dagger if just 
awakened); THACO 19; Dmg ld8 (ld4 if dagger); Save 
as Fl; ML 8; AL C; XP 10; Treasure nil. 

Location #6. Troll and Bugbear Corridor 

A troll is seated on the floor with its broad green back to you. 
In front of the troll sit two bugbears on their bedrolls, pointing 
energetically and encouragingly at a huge club lying on the floor 
before the troll. The troll scratches its head in puzzlement, then 
picks up the club and takes a healthy bite out of it. The bugbears 
curse and slap their foreheads in frustration-then blink curi 
ously at you in the open door. 


The bugbears are industriously but futilcly trying to teach their pet 
troll how to use a club. They don't expect company, and they arc 
automatically surprised unless the alarm has sounded. This is only 
a small troll, but nonetheless a serious threat to the PCs. 

One bugbear immediately attempts to head for Location #8 to 
warn the rest of the Raiders; the other stays to give orders to the 
troll. So long as a bugbear is present, the troll makes no morale 
rolls. If the last bugbear is slain or incapacitated, the troll makes 
morale checks only if attacked by fire or acid. 

Troll (1): AC4; HD 5*; hp 25; MV 120' (40'); #AT 2 
claws/1 bite; THACO 15; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld8; Save as F5; 

ML 10 (8 if bugbears are dead and if attacked by fire or 
acid); AL C; XP 300; Treasure nil. Begins to regenerate 
in third round after being wounded; regains 3 hit points 
each round. 

Bugbears (2): AC5; HD 3 + 1; hp 11, 14; MV 90' (30'); 

#AT 1, short bow or short sword; THACO 16; Dmg 
ld6 ? 1; Save as F3; ML 9; AL C; XP 50; Treasure nil. 

Found on the body of a dead bugbear is a firegoad , a magic wand 
usable by any class that causes ld6 points of fire damage to any 
victim successfully hit in combat. This wand is being used by the 
bugbears as an educational tool for training trolls. The firegoad has 
three charges remaining. 

Location #7. Envoy's Quarters 

If no alarm has sounded, read the following to the PCs. 

The dwarven stonework of this room appears to have been 
hastily cleaned. The furnishings-a table, two chairs, a chest, a 
bed, and a Ylari rug-are battered but expensive-looking. At 
the table sits a smartly dressed noble in a tastefully ornamented 
linen tunic with a rich, high-collared fur cape. He opens a snuff 
box, takes a pinch, places it daintily in his nose, sniffs sharply, 
then takes a handkerchief from one sleeve and pats his nose. 

"Heavens!" says the dainty fop. "It is almost too much to 
hope for! Have you come to deliver me from the captivity of 
these foul horrors?" 


9 








the A6ventuRe 


This is Lord Gonzaga, envoy of the Black Prince. If the PCs 
made any noise at all in Location #6 (extremely likely unless they 
used a silence 15' radius spell), Lord Gonzaga is warned of their ap 
proach. He pretends to be held prisoner here against his will. 

No matter how skeptical the PCs are, no matter how obvious the 
evidence against him, Lord Gonzaga maintains his pose of being a 
prisoner. He knows that he enjoys the special privilege and protec 
tion of the noble class, and he counts on his connections to support 
him so long as they have even the thinnest pretext for asserting his 
innocence. Tucked in his boot, however, is a most incriminating 
document-the draft of an agreement between Anandak and 
March Lord Draven to split the lands of Knacker Knob between 
them. 

If the PCs attempt to search Gonzaga or his room, he will curse 
them for arrogant pirate rabble and demand satisfaction in a duel. 
If the PCs agree to a duel, he permits them choice of weapons (as is 
proper), then attempts to slay his opponent to prove his honor. 

If the PCs attack Gonzaga or persist in searching him or his 
room, Gonzaga attacks as if defending himself against impudent 
thieves, shouting loudly, "Churlish knaves! Take that . . . and that 
. . . and that!" The shouting is intended to appear as bold chal 
lenge, but is actually an attempt to summon nearby monsters. 

Lord Gonzaga (NPC): AC5 ( ring of protection + 1, Dexter 
ity bonus); HD 4; hp 25; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 sword; 
THACO 16 ( sword + /); Dmg ld8 + 1; Save as F5 (ring oj 
protection + /); ML 12; AL N; XP 125; Treasure: wears a 
ring of protection * 1, fights with a sword + 1\ his jewelry is 
worth 500 gp, his purse contains 10 pp. 

If the PCs manage to surprise Gonzaga, they find him studying 
the draft agreement and making notes on a separate piece of paper. 
If surprised, Gonzaga plays it cool, maintaining the pretense of be 
ing a prisoner. He smoothly folds the documents and places them 
inside his tunic as he speaks to the PCs. If they attempt to examine 
the documents, Gonzaga challenges them to a duel or attacks them 
as described above. 

Regardless of whether he is surprised, Gonzaga refuses to ac 
company the party, insisting that he is a noble and that he may not 
endanger his lands and tides on such a dangerous mission as the 
PCs have undertaken. If the PCs insist, he pretends to come, un 
willingly, but then escapes at the first opportunity. If prevented 
from escaping, he may be turned over to Wortley for questioning at 
the end of the adventure. 

Gonzaga will not attack and kill a PC except in a duel or while 
attempting to escape; he knows that the party will hunt him tire 
lessly to avenge a fellow's death. The best plan is to tie him up, 
leave him in a secure place, and pick him up on the way out. 

Location #8. Ore Corridor 

If the PCs have made any noise in Location #6 or if the alarm has 
sounded, read aloud the following. The ores have moved to Loca 
tion #10 to prepare a defense with the others. 

Four bedrolls are stacked in the southwest comer. A pile of 

sticks and bits of fur lie in the center of the floor. 


If the PCs have made no noise approaching this room, read 
aloud the following to the PCs. 


Four bedrolls are stacked in the southwest comer. Four ores 
are sitting on the floor in a circle playing a game with sticks and 
bits of fur. They pay no attention to you as they grumble to each 
other menacingly. In ore one says, "I'm sick of all the traffic 
through here." Another responds, "Yeah, anybody what messes 
with this game is gonna get a whole lotta hurtin'." 


The ores think its only more patrols coming to spoil their rest 
and privacy. The PCs gain automatic surprise. 

Ores (4): AC6; HD 1; hp3, 4, 7,8; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 
sword; THACO 19; Dmg ld8; Save as FI; ML 8; AL C; 

XP 10; Treasure nil. 

Location #9. Gut rug's Corridor 

If the PCs have made any noise in Location #8 or if the alarm has 
sounded, Gutrug has joined the shaman in Location #10 to prepare 
a defense and is not here. They see the following. 

An animal-skin curtain hanging from a wooden frame blocks 
the southern part of this room from view. 


If the PCs have made no noise approaching this room, they hear 
a steel blade drawn repeatedly on a whetstone. If they look behind 
the curtain, they see the following. 

A huge, enormously ugly ore in chain armor sits on a com 
fortable cot sharpening his sword. Around his waist is a braided 
belt that appears to have been woven from blond human or el- 
ven hair. 


If attacked, Gutrug defends himself while bellowing for the sha 
man in the next room, who arrives in the following round to aid his 
chieftain. 

Gutrug (Ore Chieftain): AC4; HD 4; hp 28; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1 sword; THACO 13 (Strength bonus); Dmg 
ld8 ? 3 (Strength bonus); Save as F4; ML 12; AL C; XP 
125; Treasure (see below). 

Beneath the cot is a chest containing 500 sp and 750 cp. Gutrug 
wears his other treasure: copper bracelets, a silver tore, and an as 
sortment of gems worth 600 gp. 

Location #10. Shaman's Quarters 

If the PCs have made any noise in Location #9 or if the alarm has 
sounded, Gutrug, the four ores from Location #8, and the shaman 
have prepared an ambush here. The ores from Location #8 stand 
near the south wall and pretend to prepare to charge any PCs who 
open the door. Actually, they hope the PCs will enter the room, 
where Gutrug and the shaman, who have been hiding behind the 
curtain, will attack with surprise. 

An animal-skin curtain hanging from a wooden frame blocks 
the western part of this room from view. Small animal fur, bone, 
and feather objects are scattered on the floor and strung on the 
curtain itself. The room smells of sharp, sour incense. 


If the PCs have made no noise approaching the room, they hear 


10 









the A&ventuRe 


murmurs of unintelligible chanting. If they look behind the cur 
tain, they see the following. 

A thin, twisted ore in leather armor sits on a pile of animal 
skins, rocking back and forth and murmuring before a bowl of 
smoldering incense and a small, grotesque, stone idol. 


If he is alone when attacked, the shaman attempts to run away, 
giving the attackers a + 2 to hit him. The shaman runs for Location 
#16 and the protection of the giant. If the shaman gains initiative, 
he casts his darkness spell on the room to slow pursuit and to prevent 
spellcasters from targeting him. The darkness does not inconven 
ience PCs who have infravision; other PCs arc at a - 4 to hit and 
must roll Dexterity scores or lower on ld20 for every three squares 
they move; if the roll is failed, they stumble and movement ends 
immediately. 

Ore shaman (1): AC7; HD 2; hp 12; MV 120' (40'); #AT 

1 dub; THACO 19 (Strength penalty); Dmg ld4-2 

(Strength penalty); Save as C2; ML 7; AL C; XP 125; 

Treasure (see below). Spell: darkness. 

The grotesque idol is carved from onyx and is worth 50 gp to a 
collector. 

Location #11. Giant Rats 

Six giant rats are huddled together against the west wall. 
They are instantly on their feet and alert, snarling and twitching 
their whiskers in your direction. 


These giant rats act like guard dogs. If the PCs attempt to enter the 
room, the rats attack, squeaking loudly and furiously in their giant 
rat voices. Invisibility does not conceal the PCs from the rats, who 
rely on their keen sense of smell, but a silence 15 ' radius spell will 
prevent them from alerting the occupants in Location #12. 

If the sound of rats attacking can be heard, all wererats from 
Location #12 join the attack the second round after the disturbance 
begins. The wererats appear as huge, 6-foot-long rats. The fourth 
round brings the ratman from Location #13. 

If the alarm has sounded, the giant rats have joined the wererats 
and the ratman in Location #16 with the giant. 

Giant rats (6): AC7; HD "/ 2 ; hp 1, 2, 2, 3, 4, 4; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1 bite; THACO 19; Dmg ld3 ? disease; Save 
as NM; ML 8; AL N; XP 5 (6 if diseased); Treasure nil. 

A 1 in 20 chance of carrying disease. Victim must make 
saving throw vs. poison; if failed, he dies in ld6 days 
(25% chance) or falls sick in ld6 days (75% chance) and 
for one month is too sick to adventure. 

Location #12. Wererats 

If the giant rats were heard attacking in Location #11, the wererats 
have gone to Location #11 to fight. 

If the alarm has been sounded, the wererats have withdrawn to 
Location #16 to prepare a defense. 

If no disturbance was heard in Location #11, the wererats are in 
human form, discussing the pros and cons of an alliance with 
Anandak. Read aloud the following to the PCs. 


Crates are stacked high against the south wall. Three bedrolls 
are laid out on the floor along the west wall. Three men, naked 
except for loose loincloths, sit on crates talking quietly. One no 
table feature all three men have is their remarkably long, pointy 
noses. Swords and shields are hung neatly on the wall above 
them. 


The wererats have no chance to surprise; PCs have a normal 
chance. The PCs are quickly recognized as intruders. One wererat 
grabs his weapons and attacks while the other two change to animal 
form. The parentheses indicate while in human form. 

Wererats (3): AC7 (8); HD 3*; hp 12, 16, 19; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1, bite or weapon; THACO 17; Dmg ld4 
(ld8); Save as F3; ML 8; AL C; XP 50; Treasure nil. In 
animal form harmed only by magical or silver weapons 
and magical spells. In human form they fight with sword 
and shield. In either form they speak Common. Only the 
bite when in animal form causes lycanthropy. 

The crates are filled with backpacks, torches, wineskins, sacks, 
rope, and iron rations stockpiled for the coming campaign against 
Knacker Knob. If searched carefully, some items are identified by 
the maker's marks of Castle Kane craftsmen. Though interesting, 
this is not conclusive evidence of cooperation between the League 
and the Black Prince, since the goods could have been purchased 
secretly or stolen. 

Location #13. Ratman 

A narrow path leads along the north and west walls through a 
room filled almost to the ceiling with crates. 

The DM should place crate counters on the poster map as shown 
on the reference map, page 6. 

The ratman-an advanced form of a wererat-is hiding behind 
the piled crates. The crates are filled with equipment for the 
League's Knacker Knob campaign as described in Location #12. 

If the alarm has sounded, the ratman has joined the wererats in 
Location #16 to prepare a defense. 

If not alerted by fighting in Location #12, the ratman is resting 
in human form on his bedroll atop the stacked crates. The ratman 
surprises the PCs; the PCs have no chance to surprise the ratman. 
The parentheses indicate while in human form. 

Ratman (1): AC7 (8); HD 4 + 1 •; hp 27; MV 120' (40'); 

#AT 1, bite or weapon; THACO 15; Dmg ld4 (ld8); Save 
as F4; ML 8; AL C; XP 200; Treasure nil. In animal 
form harmed only by magical or silver weapons and mag 
ical spells. In human form he fights with sword and 
shield. In either form he speaks Common and surprises 
on 1-4 on ld6. Only the bite causes lycanthropy. 

Location #14. Storage Room 

A narrow path leads along the west and south walls through a 
room filled almost to the ceiling with crates. 


The DM should place the crate counters on the poster map as 


11 









the a&ventuRe 


The DM should place four crate counters on the poster map as 
shown on the reference map, page 6. The crates are filled with 
equipment for the League's Knacker Knob campaign as described 
in Location #12. 

A secret door on the north wall in the northeast corner leads to a 
small secret room. PCs searching for secret doors should roll ld6; 
on a roll of 1 (1-2 for elves or 1-4 for dwarves-this is a standard 
design feature of dwarven strongholds), the secret door is found. 

A ladder in the secret room leads 100 feet upward to a hidden 
exit to the outdoors. Anandak and his forces know nothing of this 
secret door or secret room. This is an excellent place for battered 
PCs to heal and recover spells before continuing with their mission. 

Location #15. Prisoner Cell 

The western half of the room is enclosed by bars and a locked 
door. Inside the bars several figures are slumped against the 
walls or lying in the straw strewn on the floor. An ore guard rests 
by the north door. 


Anandak keeps three human slaves and three adventurers-two 
dwarves and a wizard-behind bars. (The DM will want to use 
stand-ups from the basic D&D(r) Game.) The slaves are demoral 
ized, feeble, and charmed by Anandak; they will not fight. 

1 he dwarves and the magic-user are the survivors of a party cap 
tured by Gutrug's Raiders and presented to Anandak as a gift. 
They are in poor health and charmed by Anandak. If freed by the 
PCs, however, each may immediately make a saving throw vs. 
spells to resist the charm. If the save fails, the NPC is overcome by 
despair and refuses to fight. If successful, the NPC will fight as a 
retainer, though he does not ask for a share of the treasure nor does 
he receive experience points-he is fighting for revenge. The 
NPCs do not have weapons, armor, or equipment; Anandak keeps 
their gear in his lair so he can outfit them as needed. 

If the alarm has been sounded, the adventurers may have been 
summoned to Anandak's lair to serve as charmed bodyguards (see 
Location #21). 

Ore guard (1): AC6; HD 1; hp 7; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 
sword; THACO 19; Drng ld8; Save as FI; ML 8; AL C; 

XP 10; Treasure nil. 

Human slaves (3): AC9; HD 1 - 1; hp 2, 2, 2; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1 fist; THACO 20; Drng ld4 - 2 (Strength pen- 
alty); Save as NM; ML 6; AL L; XP none; Treasure nil. 

Blain the Dwarf (NPC): AC9; HD 1; hp 7; MV 60' 
(20'); #AT 1 fist or weapon; THACO 19; Ding ld4 + 2 (or 
by weapon; + 2 Strength bonus); Save as D1; ML 12; AL 
L; XP none; Treasure nil. 

Nithi the Dwarf (NPC): AC9; HD 1; hp 5; MV 60' (20'); 

#AT 1 fist or weapon; THACO 19; I>mg ld4 (or by weap 
on); Save as D1; ML 12; AL L; XP none; Treasure nil. 

Vilbcrt the Magic-Uscr (NPC): AC9; HD 1; hp 2; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 1 fist or weapon; THACO 20; Drng ld4 - 
1 (or by weapon; - 1 Strength penalty); Save as MU1; 

ML 12; AL L; XP none; Thrasure nil. 


Location #16. Mort the Hill Giant 

The high-vaulted ceiling arches 15 feet overhead. The room 
is empty except for a hill giant wearing a sour, petulant expres 
sion and seated on a crate leaning against the north wall, his 
club on the floor before him. 


This was the main storeroom but Mort's fits of temper forced the 
Guard Captain to have everything moved out of this room and into 
adjoining corridors. 

Despite his expression, Mort is very friendly. He introduces 
himself to each PC, requiring a polite introduction from each in 
return. Mort then asks them about the weather. He keeps a conver 
sation on the weather going far longer than might be thought possi 
ble, then moves on to the topic of the PCs' possessions. He wants to 
look at each of their weapons and shields and is especially inter 
ested in any magical weapons they have. The moment the PCs 
show any sign of impatience or unfriendly intent, he attacks, scold 
ing them for their rude manners. 

Silver-tongued and pleasant PCs can talk their way past Mort, 
provided they flatter him and tell him how much they've enjoyed 
talking with him, yes indeed, and how much they are looking for 
ward to talking with him again, oh certainly! 

Mort the Hill Giant: AC4; HD 6; hp 39; MV 120' (40'); 

#AT 1 weapon; THACO 14; Drng 2d8; Save as F8; ML 8; 

AL C; XP 450; Treasure (see below). 

Mort's treasure is wrapped up in a rug he keeps tucked under his 
animal-skin garments. The rug contains 5,000 gp, three brightly 
painted shields, two sets of nonmagical plate mail, and the desic 
cated corpse of a gnome chieftain wearing leather armor +2, a ring of 
protection +7, a short sword + 7, and a sling ? 7. 

Location #17. Storage Passage 

A narrow path leads along the south and east walls through a 
narrow room filled almost to the ceiling with crates. 


The DM should place three crate counters on the poster map as 
shown on the reference map, page 6. The crates are filled with 
equipment for the League's Knacker Knob campaign as described 
in Location #12. 

Location #18. Haurarra the Harpy 

Crates line the walls of the southeast part of the room. In the 
northwest section, perched in a great nest, is a harpy. The har 
py's face-unlike that of most harpies-is of a beautiful woman. 
When she begins to sing, each listener feels as if a hand has 
clutched at his or her heart, so sad and sweet is the voice and 
melody. 


V\ hen Haurarra sings, all characters must make a successful saving 
throw vs. spells or be charmed as per the charm person spell. Unless 
the doors to Locations #16 and 17 are shut, characters in those 
rooms must also save or be charmed. Charmed characters stand still 
with a rapt expression, listening to the song. If attacked by other 
PCs or NPCs, the charmed characters remain charmed and fight 


12 






the aftventuRe 


back. Haurarra ignores her charmed victims and attacks any charac 
ters unaffected by her song. 

If Haurarra is slain, affected characters return to normal but 
they remember nothing of being charmed. 

Haurarra the Harpy: AC7; HD 3"; hp 19; MV 60' 
(20'), 150' (50') flying; #AT 4, claw/claw/weapon ? 
charm ; THACO 17; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld6; Save as F6; ML 7; 

AL C; XP 50; Treasure nil. 

Location #19. Audience Chamber 

This room is empty except for a handsome, ornamented 
throne set against the south wall. 


A lever hidden in the right arm of the throne disarms the fire trap 
located in the corridor to the east of this room. (Sec the DM's refer 
ence map on page 6.) 

The corridor to the cast has a metal grate floor. Directly below 
the metal grate is a 1-foot-deep pool of oil as long and wide as the 
corridor. If the latch to the door to Location #20 is touched without 
disarming the trap, a flint-and-steel device casts a spark into the 
pool of oil. 

All PCs in the corridor suffer ld8 points of fire damage per 
round. The fire continues for five rounds, after which the oil supply 
is exhausted and the fire goes out. The trap is obvious; no roll is 
needed to detect it. On a roll of 1-3 on ld6 a dwarf or thief discov 
ers the lighting device and removes it, disarming the trap. 

The door to Location #20 is wizard-locked and cannot be opened 
without a knock or dispel magic spell. 

Location #20. Luzgar the Ore Lord 

You see three treasure chests along the east wall. In the south 
east corner is a handsome feather bed. Hooks built to hold ar 
mor and weapons on the east wall are empty. Under the feather 
bed you can just sec a potion botde, apparently empty. 


Luzgar the Ore Lord has just swallowed a potion of growth and is 
waiting in ambush in the southwest corridor. The potion effect lasts 
for six turns. 

Roll for surprise and go to combat. Luzgar is charmed and will 
fight to the death to defend Anandak. If also charmed by the PCs, 
Luzgar is so bewildered by conflicting demands that he stops fight 
ing; if attacked, Luzgar defends himself, but he will follow neither 
Anandak's nor the PC's commands. 

Luzgar (Ore Lord): AC2 ( chain mail + /, shield + /); HD 
5*; hp 33; MV 120' (90'); #AT 1 sword; THACO 12 ( + 3 
Strength bonus from potion); Dmg 2d8 ? 3 ( + 3 Strength 
bonus and double damage from potion); Save as F5; ML 
12; AL C; XP 300; TVeasure (see below). 

Luzgar's personal treasure includes his chain mail + /, his shield 
+ /, and 200 pp carried in a pouch inside his armor. The treasure 
chests are empty; Anandak has promised Luzgar that they will be 
filled during the Knacker Knob campaign. 

The door to Anandak's lair is wizard-locked and cannot be 
opened without a knock or dispel magic spell. 


Location #21. Dragon's Lair 

If the PCs are low on spells and hit points, the DM should suggest 
that they rest, heal, and memorize spells before they take on the red 
dragon. When they arc ready, the Dungeon Master can read aloud 
the following. 

The ceiling of this great hall is 20 feet high. The floor of the 
west end of the room is covered with the dragon's treasure 
hoard. There's no sign of the dragon. 


Anandak's tactics depend on whether he fights alone or uses the 
two dwarf and one magic-user charmed captives (see Location #15) 
as shock troops. Alternately, he may escape and counterattack. 
Anandak does not consider surrender an option. He either fights to 
triumph or die or escapes to fight another day. 

* Anandak fights alone: Before the PCs enter, Anandak casts 
two spells on himself. Invisibility Iff radius lasts until he attacks the 
PCs; protection from normal missiles lasts for 12 turns. Anandak is in 
visible in the southeast corner of the room; if at any time he can 
move invisibly to the north door without bumping into a character, 
he does so, where he prepares to attack. If he cannot move, he pre 
pares to attack from where he is. He attacks first with two rounds of 
breath weapons, then uses his charm and magic missile spells to pick 
off survivors. If the battle is going against him, he casts a web to 
block pursuit and attempts to escape (see "Anandak Escapes and 
Counterattacks," below). 

* Anandak fights with charmed NPC shock troops: Before the 
PCs enter, Anandak casts two spells on himself. Invisibility Iff radius 
lasts until he attacks the PCs; protection from normal missiles lasts for 
12 turns. The charmed dwarf and magic-user NPCs stand in front of 
Anandak and are invisible (within the radius of his invisibility Iff 
radius spell effect). Anandak has given the NPCs the following or 
der: "When lapped on the back, attack and kill any intruders you 
find anywhere in my stronghold." The dwarves are outfitted with 
their own armor, shields, and weapons; the magic-user, who has no 
spells memorized, has six scrolls: two light, one magic missile, one 
shield, one hold portal, and one ventriloquism. 

Anandak waits for the right moment, then taps the NPCs on the 
back. The NPCs charge forward invisible and attack the PCs while 
Anandak remains invisible. Roll for surprise; if not surprised, the 
PCs heard the approaching footsteps. (The PCs have no chance to 
surprise.) When the NPCs attack, they become visible. Anandak 
may wait to use his breath weapon until the charmed NPCs are slain 
or disabled, or he may attempt to escape in the confusion. If the 
dragon attempts to escape, he polymorphs himself into a sprite and 
flics away invisible (sec "Anandak Escapes and Counterattacks," 
below). 

* Anandak escapes and counterattacks: Anandak is at a dis 
advantage in his lair since there is enough room for the PCs to sur 
round him and attack collectively. If the DM wishes Anandak to be 
a more powerful opponent and if the PCs are strong enough, 
Anandak can escape after the PCs have had a chance to expend 
most of their spells. The dragon can then select and defend a one- 
square-wide section of corridor that blocks the PCs' retreat-the 
narrow southwest passage of Location #20 or the narrow corridor 
west of Location #20, for example. Here no more than one PC can 
attack in melee at a time. 


13 


















the AbventuRe 


Wise PCs will refuse to fight Anandak under these circumstanc 
es. Their best option is to withdraw; outfit themselves with the 
magical weapons and treasures from Anandak's hoard; rest, heal, 
and regain spells; and then fight their way out to return at a later 
time. If the PCs choose this option, Anandak realizes the hopeless 
ness of his situation and escapes to create a new lair and to begin 
collecting a new treasure hoard. 

Anandak, red dragon: ACO; HD 8"; hp 47; MV 90' 
(30'), 240' (80') flying; #AT 3 daw/daw/bite; THACO 12; 
Dmg Id8/ld8/3d8; Save as F8; ML 10; ALC; XP 1,750; 
Treasure (see below). Spells: magic missile ( x 2), charm, 
wizard lock, web, continual darkness, invisibility Iff radius, pro 
tection from normal missiles, polymorph self. May use breath 
weapon three times a day. Breath weapon is a 90' x 30' 
cone of fire starting from the dragon's mouth. The breath 
weapon may be used in addition to other normal attacks. 


Damage is equal to the dragon's current hit points; there 
fore, damage done to a dragon reduces subsequent dam 
age caused by its breath. 

Anandak's treasure is a pile of coins, gems, jewels, weapons, ar 
mor, shields, chests, pouches, and art objects. The coins include 
11,000 cp; 9,700 sp; 4,000 gp; and 540 pp. The gems are worth 900 
gp, the jewels 2,500 gp. Among the weapons are the following 
magical items: a sword + 1, +3 vs. dragons; a sword + 1, cure light 
wounds 1/day ; and a mace +1. The armor indudes a leather + 2, a 
chain mail ? 1, and a shield + 1. The chests contain a potion of healing, 
a potion of growth, a scroll of protection from undead, and six scrolls with 
one 1st- or 2nd-level spell each (the DM should choose spells he or 
she wants the players to have). The art objects include two statues 
of dragons (one worth 400 gp, the other worth 2,000 gp) and a jade 
carving worth 10,000 gp. 


the Joupney Back 


When Anandak has been slain or driven from the stronghold, any 
remaining defenders flee, taking their treasures with them. The 
wilderness trip back to Knacker Knob is uneventful. 

Anandak's severed head may be returned to Wortley as proof of 
the success of the adventurers' mission. The head's encumbrance 
is 500 cn. 

If Gonzaga is captured, he may be turned over to Wortley for 
questioning. Wortley is convinced of his guilt, but Gonzaga sticks 
to his story of being a prisoner of Anandak's. As a noble of the West 
March, Gonzaga may not be questioned by magical means without 


his consent or the consent of his ruler, Draven, the Black Prince. 

However, if the PCs have the draft of the agreement between 
Anandak and March Lord Draven to split the lands of Knacker 
Knob between them, Wortley does not need Gonzaga's testimony. 
Gonzaga is imprisoned, and the draft agreement is delivered by 
secret courier to King Ganyard at his casde in Yarrow. 

For their service to Knacker Knob, Wortley promises to confer 
upon each PC the title of "Lord (or Lady) of the March of Knacker 
Knob"-just as soon as King Ganyard grants Wortley the title of 
March Lord of Knacker Knob. 


15 







Nighty Battles against Oics, Goblins, and Trolls 
New... the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS Goblin's Lair 


Adventure Pack! 

hey're hot! The Goblin's 
Lair Adventure Pack is 
packed with fun. It con 
tains three entry-level 
adventures for the new 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) game, 
each tougher than the last. The 
pack contains three poster-size 
maps, three adventure booklets, 
six dozen stand-up monsters and 
characters, and loads of card 
board tiles for your dungeon. It al 
so contains a mini boardgame that 
uses the maps and counters when 
players don't have time for an en 
tire adventure. 




Look for these 
upcoming adven 
ture packs: Gob 
lin's Lair (avail 
able in July), and 
Haunted Tower 
(available in 
September). 


DUNGEONS ft DRAGONS " a repwered trademark owned by TSR. Inc. The TSR logo is a Cademart owned 
by TSR. Inc 
• 1992 TSR. Inc All Rights Reserved 















Official Game Adventure 


Table of Contents 


Wild Dragon Den 
The Briefing . . . . 
The Adventure . . 
The Journey Back 


Credits 


Design . 

Editing . 

Product Manager . 

Cover Art . 

Poster Map Art & Counter Art 

Stand-up Character An . 

Interior Art . 

Art Coordinator. 

Cartography . 

Typography . 

Production . 

Graphic Design. 


.Ken Rolston 

Dori "The Barbarian" Watry 

.Bruce A. Heard 

.Jeff Easley 

.Robin Raab 

.John Statema 

.Terry Dykstra 

.Peggy Cooper 

.Dennis Kauth 

.Tracey Zamagne 

.Sarah Feggestad 

.Stephanie Tabat 

*1992 TSR. Inc. All Right* Reserved. Printed in the U.S.A. 

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and l)&D are registered trademark* owned by TSR, Inc. 

The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR. Inc 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English 
language products of TSR. Inc Distributed to the book and bobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR 
Ltd. 
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 

This module is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use 
of the material or artwork presented herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR. 
Inc. 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva 
VVI 53147 USA 


TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End, Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


I073XXXI90I 


ISBN 1-56076-380-9 



































Wild Ctaaqon 6en 


A young black dragon and two hatchling dragons live in 
an excavated sandstone burrow in the swamp west of 
Knacker Knob. Connected to the dragon lair is a complex 
of sandstone tunnels and chambers inhabited by lizard 
men. Some sandstone tunnels and chambers are partially 
flooded, and others are filled with nasty things such as 
slimes, oozes, and gelatinous cubes. 

The lizard men revere the dragons as magical spirit 
guardians. In small groups the lizard men are easily de 
feated, but if allowed to prepare a common defense, the 
lizard man tribe with its spellcasters may present a serious 
threat to the player characters (PCs). 

This is the easiest of the dragons' dens to conquer. We 
strongly recommend that beginning adventurers attempt 
this lair first before going on to Wyrmhaven and the League 
of the Red Serpent. 

Adventure Overview 

This adventure is designed for three to four characters of 
1st to 3rd levels. If there are more than four players or if 
the characters are of higher levels, the Dungeon Master 
(DM) should make some of the encounters more difficult. 
He or she can do this by increasing the number of mon 
sters encountered; by increasing a monster's hit dice, hit 
points, and/or the amount of damage inflicted by its at 
tack; or by decreasing a monster's armor class, which will 
make the monster harder to hit. 

What's Needed to Play? 

Dragon's Den is the first in a series of adventure packs for 
the new DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) Game. The DM 
will need to have the black basic D&D(r) Game so that he 
or she has the rules and additional stand-ups. Otherwise, 
the only things needed to play this adventure are a few 
friends, some paper and pencils, and the desire to rid the 
swamps west of Knacker Knob of a terrible black dragon! 

DM Notes 

Here are some notes for the DM to keep in mind when 
running this adventure. 

• Boxed text: Boxed text should be read aloud to give 
players a basic description of the scenes, events, mon 
sters, and characters they encounter at that point of the 
adventure. If preferred, the DM can use his or her own 
words instead as long as the important information in the 
boxed text is given. 

• Hide-skin doors: The doors in the black dragon's 
lair are made of heavy flaps of animal hides coated with a 
mixture of sand and slime. These hide-skin doors look 


just like the sandstone bedrock. They cannot be locked 
and must be held open; they will not stay in an open posi 
tion like a normal door. In other respects the hide-skin 
door works just like a norma! door. 

• Sandstone walls: The entire underground complex 
is carved from sandstone, a relatively soft reddish-brown 
rock. Causing more than 10 points of damage to a wall in 
this dungeon will cause the roof to cave in-the ceiling 
over the square closest to the damaged wall will collapse 
and fill the square with sand. 

A creature standing in such a square when the ceiling 
collapses will be buried by sand and hunks of sandstone. 
He must roll his Strength score or lower on ld20 to free 
himself of the debris. While buried, he can take no other 
action other than trying to free himself. For each compan 
ion in a square next to the victim who assists the buried 
character, subtract two points from the die roll check 
against Strength. 

A square buried by a collapsed ceiling is blocked. It 
takes one character two turns to clear a blocked square if 
he has a shovel; without a shovel, it takes four turns. 

• Oil lamps: Unless stated otherwise in the room de 
scription, most rooms are dimly lit by crude oil lamps. 
The oil from Location #2 is collected and burned in sand 
stone bowls to illuminate all rooms except Locations #1, 
2, 8, 9, 10, and 24. 

• Shallow pools and partially flooded passages and 
chambers: Water in these places is 1' to \'h' deep, re 
stricting movement to Vz normal. Anything below the 
surface of the water cannot be seen, even with magical 
light. Hand-to-hand attacks are at a - 2 penalty and mis 
sile attacks are at the same. Lizard men and other aquatic 
creatures, however, suffer no to-hit penalty. 

• Deep pools and flooded passages and chambers: 
Water in these places is over a character's head. PCs in 
any kind of armor at all sink to the bottom and can only 
move a maximum of one square per round. Unarmored 
PCs can move three squares per round. Characters trav 
eling underwater must roll their Constitution score or 
lower on ld20 each round or take 1 point of drowning 
damage. Hand-to-hand attacks are at a -4 penalty and 
missile attacks are impossible to perform. Lizard men 
and other aquatic creatures suffer a - 2 to-hit penalty. 

• Lizardspeak: The PCs cannot understand lizard 
man talk, but the DM can make the lizard men seem 
more real to the players by making lizard man noises 
when there are scenes of lizard men speaking to one an 
other. The DM can click teeth; hiss; make wet, smacking 
noises with his or her tongue and lips; and whisper non- 


2 



Wild CiRApon Oen 


sense syllables through clenched teeth to suggest lizard 
man speech. 

• Lizard man face stones: Wealthy members of the 
Great Dragon lizard man tribe wear their treasure on 
their faces. Using a glue made from parts of gelatinous 
cube and green slime, the Great Dragon Tribe members 
cement colorful bits of quartz and rough precious and 
semiprecious stones to the thick, leathery skin around 
their jaws and eyes and in lines along the top of their 
skulls. Females and whelps wear fewer and less valuable 
stones; warriors, chieftains, and clerics may wear stones 
worth several hundred gold pieces. The PCs, if they so 
desire, may pry these stones from dead lizard men to 
gather as treasure. 

Monsters 

Throughout the course of this adventure, the characters 
will confront dangerous monsters. When such encounters 
occur, information about each monster is presented in the 
following format. 

Name of Monster (number encountered): AC 

(armor class); HD (hit dice); hp (hit points); MV 
(movement rate); #AT (number of attacks); 
THACO (see below); Dmg (damage inflicted per 
attack); Save as (what the monster's saving throw 
is based on); ML (morale rating); AL (align 
ment); XP (experience reward for defeating the 
monster); Treasure (how much treasure the mon 
ster has). 

One of the entries, THACO, may be new to beginning 
players and DMs. It stands for "To Hit Armor Class 0." 
To determine the roll a monster needs to hit a character 
with a specific armor class, simply subtract the target's 
AC from the monster's THACO number. Thus, if a mon 
ster's THACO is 19 and its target is AC 3, the monster 
needs to roll a 16 or better to hit the character. 

Wandering Monsters 

Roll ld6 every other turn to see if a wandering monster 
enters the room or passage. Wandering monsters are nev 
er encountered in Locations #13, 20, 23, or 24. The DM 
should feel free to use whatever monsters he or she thinks 
are appropriate for the scenario, or the DM can use the 
following table for generating wandering monsters. 


Wild Dragon Den Wandering Monster Table 


1(120 


No. 

Roll 

Monster 

Appearing 

1-4 

Lesser lizard man 



and lizard man slave 

2 

5-8 

Lesser lizard men 

ld6 

9-13 

Lizard man warriors 

ld4 

14-16 

Lizard man chieftain* 

1 

17-19 

Dragonscale cleric* 

1 

20 

Dragonscale high cleric* 

1 


* If this creature has been killed, ld4 lizard man war 
riors appear instead. 


DM Reference Map 

In addition to the large poster map, which the DM will 
use with the players so that they can position their stand- 
ups, a copy of the Wild Dragon Den map is included on 
the following page. This map, for the DM's use only, 
shows positions of monsters and other important features. 

The DM will want to place the large poster map on the 
table for all the players to see, but he or she will want to 
refer to the reference map for his or her own use. 



3 




Xx: -i 2 Z 


h S* 

Is 

Miili 


<mUGuiu.O 


lj.]j 8 

ii iJilJ 



















the Bpiefinq 


The DM should pass out each player's appropriate char 
acter stand-up (or have them use the stand-ups that came 
with the D&D(r) Game black boxed set). If the players 
want ready-made PCs, they can use the Dragon's Den 
Game cards, which have PC statistics on the back; these 
cards correspond to the stand-up counter characters. 

Then the DM can have the players read the "Wanted- 
Bold Adventurers!" handout (on the back of the "Read 
Me First!" sheet loose in the box) while he or she begins 
setting up the game. 

When everything is ready, the DM should tell the play 
ers that Bailiff Wortley's agent, Sascia, hands the players 
the Wild Dragon Den map. (The DM can place the map 
on the table at this time.) Sascia has the following to say. 


"Your map is based on a drawing made by an es 
caped slave. The poor creature is quite mad. We can't 
understand a word of her gibberish, but her sketches 
seem detailed and therefore credible. A scout has con 
firmed the location of the four entrances. 

"Entrance A is partially underwater. Entrance C is 
sealed by a great stone rolled into a tight opening and is 
probably wedged from the inside. The other entrances- 
B and D-arc cunningly concealed by heavy flaps of ani 
mal hides coated with a mixture of sand and slime, This 
stuff looks just like the sandstone bedrock, so it will take 
your party a while to find the openings. The entrances 
are surrounded by swamp growth. 

"The actual complex is tunneled below ground into 
the sandstone. Be careful-the rock is soft and cave-ins 
a problem. We suspect some tunnels are flooded. 

"One scout observed small parties of lizard men 
coming and going at various hours through Entrance 
D. He refuses to guess at their numbers. 

"Our knowledge of lizard man culture is limited at 
best. These primitive tribal humanoids don't wear ar 
mor, but their tough skin is hard to penetrate. For 
weapons they use crude clubs and spears, but they are 
very strong and can strike powerful blows. In combat, 
lizard man warriors fight to the death. Evidence sug 
gests that death in combat is sacred to their culture, 
and they apparently sacrifice captives and slaves to ap 
pease their tribal spirits. They use magical power 
gained from swamp and ancestral spirits. Lizard men 
may domesticate animals; some scholars believe they 
train crocodiles much as we train dogs. As far as we 
know, they don't understand Common, and we cannot 
understand their lisping, sibilant speech, even with 
magical aid. 


"Friends, we know precious little about lizard men. 
Any observations you make of them-their skills, their 
way of life, and their methods of combat-will be of 
interest to our sages." 

Sascia looks around at each of the party members 
and then nods, apparently satisfied with what she sees. 
She continues her briefing. 

"The dragon is a black-one of the scouts found two 
pieces of scale and the identification is positive. It's 
young, a bit below mid-size, but dangerous enough. 
The black sprays rather than breathes an acid stream 
at its victims. 

"We think that the fighters will have to draw the 
dragon into using its acid breath weapon while the 
spellcasters and fleet-footed folk attack the beast's 
flanks-at least that's the best advice we can give you. 
Oh, and best to catch it sleeping, of course." 

Sascia and her scouts leave, turning the briefing back 
to Bailiff Wortley. Wortley provides your party with the 
following items, explaining why as he passes them out. 

• Two black dragonscale shield covers. "The devil 
to work this stuff. Very rare, very valuable. Don't lose 
them, or it comes out of your pay-and they're a 1,000 
gp apiece, mind you." Black dragonscale shield covers, 
which attach to an existing shield, provide some protec 
tion from acid breath only, they do not increase a shield's 
power. If the bearer makes a saving throw vs. dragon 
breath, he takes only '/? damage from the breath attack; if 
he fails, he takes only V 2 damage. The shield covers are 
usable only by classes permitted to use shields. They must 
be returned to Wortley at the end of the adventure. 

• Three waterproof sacks. "These'U keep the gear 
and torches dry if you must cross flooded passages or 
pools." 

• Two continual light gems in heavy, opaque leather 
pouches. "The Deacon has blessed them for your use; 
they'll shed light that won't be extinguished by sudden 
immersion in water." These are small gems with the cleri 
cal spell continual light cast upon them. 

• Three healing potions. "From the Deacon. I hope 
you won't need more." 

• One potion of giant strength. "This is from the Luln 
militia stores. If you use it, you'll pay 500 gp when you 
return. If you return it intact, there's no charge." 

• Six neutralize poison clerical scrolls. "Lizard men 
don't use poisoned weapons as far as we know, but better 
safe than sorry." 


5 







the Adventupe 


When the player characters arc ready to begin, the DM 
should read the following aloud. 

Your party has received a map clearly marking the 
location of the black dragon's lair. You know what 
landmarks to look for. The map indicates the location 
of the four entrances, showing Entrance A as partially 
underwater, Entrance B as brush-covered with signs of 
infrequent passage, Entrance C as blocked by a boul 
der, and Entrance D as well traveled and probably the 
main entrance to the lizard man colony. 

Your party makes the two-day wilderness trek to the 
Wild Dragon Den without incident. Once there, you 
must decide which entrance you will enter and whether 
you want to enter immediately or camp outside and 
enter later after dark. 

What is your decision? 

If the PCs choose Entrance A, they will find it is a waist- 
deep pool of muddy water. 

If the PCs choose Entrance B, a search will reveal signs 
of occasional passage through the brush covering the door 
flap. 

If the PCs choose Entrance C, they will find that the 
large boulder wedged into the opening is immovable from 
the outside. Although a faint trace of moving air is detect 
able around the edges of the boulder, the massive boulder 
is held in place by ten heavy wedges from the inside. The 
boulder simply cannot be moved from the outside. Note 
that if each of the ten wedges inside are removed (by caus 
ing 10 points of damage with a weapon or by rolling 
Strength scores or lower on ld20 at -6 penalties), the 
boulder will roll three squares from the opening, permit 
ting easy exit from the lair. 

If the PCs choose Entrance D, they'll find that though 
the footprints there are obscured by the soggy ground, the 
swamp growth reveals frequent travel through this en 
trance. The hide-skin door doesn't quite close tightly. A 
rank odor similar to day-old fish rises with the faint pas 
sage of air from within. 

When the players have decided which entrance they 
wish to enter, have them place their stand-up counters in 
the appropriate entrance spaces on the map, one counter 
to a square. 

The adventure of the Wild Dragon Den can now begin! 
Depending on the PCs' entrance choice, the DM may have 
to flip through to the correct room location-locations are 
presented sequentially below. The DM should refer to the 
DM's reference map on page 4 as needed. 


Location #1. Crocodile Watchdogs 


This cavern is dark as pitch, and any light you bring 
into this area is reflected off the black surface of the wa 
ter that fills this room. Ripples from your disturbance 
of the water cause gentle slapping sounds against the 
far chamber walls. The walls and ceiling are damp with 
condensation. Part of the chamber extends out of sight 
around a corner. 


A pair of crocodile watchdogs rest on the dry bank near 
the door to Location #2. When the first character enters 
the room, he or she hears a double splash as the crocodiles 
propel themselves into the water. The crocodiles attack. 
Roll for surprise and go to combat. 

Crocodiles (2): AC 5; HD 2; hp 12, 13; MV 90' 
(30'), Swim 90' (30'); #AT 1 bite; THAC0 18; 
Dmg ld8; Save as FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 20; Trea 
sure nil. 

Location #2. The Tar Pools 


A foul, biting odor reminiscent of old lamp oil pours 
from this room. Like the crocodile den, this room is 
unlit. Three pools bubble and slurp noisily in the back 
of the chamber. 


Because the gases that continually bubble up from the 
black tar pools are flammable, any lighted torch brought 
into this room causes an immediate explosion. Each char 
acter in Location #2 takes 2 points of damage as the gas 
laden air bursts into flame. 

The oil on the surface of the pools is impure and thus 
cannot be used like flasks of oil; it will, however, bum fee 
bly as a light source. (This is the oil in the sandstone 
lamps found throughout the complex.) 

Location #3. Pool and Leech Trap 

The sandstone ceiling hangs very low in this cham 
ber, only 2' from the surface of the black, oily water 
that fills the room. The film on the surface of the water 
reflects rainbow colors, like oil in a puddle or water in a 
stagnant pond. 

There are three pools, each with a trap at the bottom. 
(The traps are marked on the DM reference map, found 
on page 4.) The traps are 10-foot-deep holes. Cautious 


6 







the A6ventuRe 


PCs who feel the bottom as they move automatically dis 
cover the holes without falling in. However, the giant 
leeches sitting in the bottom of two of these holes gain au 
tomatic surprise. 

Young giant leeches (2): AC 7; HD 2; hp 8, 12; 
MV 90' (30'); #AT 1 bite; THACO 18; Dmg ld6; 
Save as FI; ML 10; AL N; XP 20; Treasure nil. 

Location #4. A Flooded Passage 


A deep pool fills this entire passage. A hide-skin door is 
just visible across the still, black surface of the water. 

Lizard men leaving the Mud Room (Location #5) wash 
the mud off in this deep pool. If the PCs try to climb out 
of the pool and pass through the hide-skin door while 
dressed in armor, they must roll their Dexterity scores or 
less on ld20 with a - 10 penalty. Failed saving throws in 
dicate that they have slipped back into the pool. 

On the floor of the pool a "half-clever" lizard man war 
rior has hidden an elven cloak under a large stone. Another 
lizard man would never think to search this pool, but any 
diver automatically finds the large stone and the cloak un 
der it. The cloak is tattered and torn, but it still bears its 
enchantment, and an elven brooch worth 200 gp is still 
fastened to it. 

Location #5. The Mud Room 


Iwo light-brown lizard man-sized figures are thrash 
ing about in deep mud. They don't notice you when 
you open the hide-skin door to this room. 

These two lizard man warriors are engaged in a half- 
serious, half-jesting test of each other's wrestling skills. If 
the PCs simply leave, the lizard men never know they 
were in the room. 

If the PCs attack, they automatically gain surprise. Be 
fore making an attack in this room, a PC must roll his or 
her Dexterity score or lower on ld20. Failure means slip 
ping and falling into the mud. A successful check means 
the PC attacks normally. To rise from the mud, a charac 
ter must roll his or her Dexterity or lower on ld20. 

The lizard men suffer no penalty in the mud. 

Lizard man warriors (2): AC 5; HD 3; hp 15, 

20; MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 claw; 

THACO 17; Dmg ld4 + l; Save as F3; ML 12; 

AL N; XP 35; Treasure (see below). 


The lizard man warriors in this location wear ld6 x 50 
gps' worth of rough gems cemented to their face, should 
the PCs collect them. 

Location #6. Eel and Turtle Family Nests 

This lizard man den is dimly lit by flickering flames 
rising from a tarry substance poured into a number of 
crude sandstone bowls around the room. Lines of odd 
piles of cobblestones divide the room into two territo 
ries. You see two groups of lizard men-one in the 
northeast territory, the other in the southwest territory. 
Fortunately, you seem to have caught the reptile people 
off guard, for they are scrambling about grabbing their 
crude clubs. 


Two nests of lizard men share this chamber. Only whelps 
and females are here at present; the warriors are gathered 
in Location #21. The PCs receive a + 2 bonus to surprise. 
The lines of stones mark the boundaries of family nests. If 
the PCs stand inside a nest, only those lizard men in that 
nest can attack because lizard men may not enter the nest 
of another family. 

Lesser lizard men (2 groups of 3): AC 5; HD 

1+1; hp 4-7 each; MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' 
(40'); #AT 1 club; THACO 18; Dmg ld4; Save as 
FI; ML 12; AL N; XP 15; Treasure (see below). 

Each lesser lizard man wears ld6x 10 gps' worth of 
rough gems cemented to its face. 

An investigation of their nests reveal two strange arti 
facts. The first is a carved stick with thongs of hide tied in 
odd patterns. The artifact is of unknown purpose, but a 
sage will pay 25 gp for it. The other is a very rusty dagger 
blade missing its handle. Detect magic reveals the blade to 
be a + 1 dagger ; for the cost of a normal dagger, a weapon- 
maker can replace the missing handle and clean and 
sharpen the blade. 

Location #7. The Chieftain's Chamber 


A dim but unwavering light illuminates the rear 
wall, which is covered with rude paintings of colored 
clays. A large nest area is surrounded by a ring of 
heaped stones. The light illuminating the room ema 
nates from inside four lizard man skulls set on posts 
across the front of the nest. From the door it is impos 
sible to see if anyone is hidden behind the ring of rocks. 


7 






the A&ventupe 


The lizard man chieftain lives here with his harem. If the 
alarm has been sounded in Locations #14 or 17, this room 
will be empty-the chieftain and his harem will have 
moved to Location #19 to mount a defense. 

If no alarm has sounded, the chieftain is in this cham 
ber, attended to by his harem. A successful listen attempt 
reveals lizard man conversation from the ring of stones. 

Lizard man chieftain (1): AC 5; HD 4; hp 30; 

MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 sacred war 
club; THAC0 15; Dmg ld6 + 2; Save as F4; ML 
12; AL N; XP 75; Treasure (see below). 

Lesser lizard men (3): AC 5; HD 1 + 1; hp 4, 5, 

7; MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 club; 
THAC0 18; Dmg ld4; Save as FI; ML 12; AL 
N; XP 15; Treasure (see below). 

The sacred war club ( + 1 to hit and to damage) is carved 
with arcane symbols and ornamented with colored 
stones, feathers, and bones cemented to its surface. The 
chieftain wears 2d6 x 100 gps' worth of stones on his face. 

In the center of the chieftain's nest is a large mound of 
assorted metal bits-pieces of armor, cookware, a steel 
hoop 2' in diameter, and other rubbish. Amidst the 
worthless materials are a pewter mug worth 50 gp, a dia 
mond pin worth 1,000 gp, and a metal-shod chestnut 
walking staff that is actually a staff of magic detection. 

Each lesser lizard man wears ld6 x 10 gps' worth of 
rough gems cemented to its face. 

Location #8. Snake Nest 


If it is daytime, this chamber is partially lit by sun 
light filtering through the ceiling. The floor is covered 
with small mounds of rotting swamp vegetation. The 
smell is quite fierce. The rustling in the back of the 
chamber is caused by any number of small creatures. 

The colony of giant racer snakes that lives amidst the de 
caying compost here is fed trap-caught swamp rats and 
pampered by the dragonscale cleric and the warrior lizard 
men. Why? Lizard men think snakes are cute the same 
way humans think small furry creatures are cute. 

Giant racers are not poisonous, but there's no reason to 
tell the players that until after the combat if the PCs ex 
amine the dead snakes. During combat, have each PC 
bitten by a snake make a saving throw vs. poison; make a 
careful note of the round in which the PC was bitten. Also 
make a big deal of keeping track of the passing rounds so 


that the player thinks his or her character is about to drop 
dead of poison at any minute. It's a dirty trick, but cer 
tainly less nasty than killing a PC with poison-and it 
provides for some great gaming. 

Giant racer snakes (2): AC 7; HD 2; hp 13, 15; 
MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 bite; THAC0 18; Dmg 
ld6; Save as FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 20; Treasure 
nil. 

Location #9. Dump and Compost 

Mounds of rank, steamy refuse are heaped against 
the north and south walls. A huge glistening cube of 
translucent jelly reaches to the ceiling in the southeast 
comer. 

Rotting vegetation, clumps of filth, bones, and the 
odd bit of metal and stone are visible within its semi 
transparent bulk. With a rubbery "whubba-whubba- 
whubba" noise, the cube begins to squoosh toward your 
direction. 


The gelatinous cube rids the lizard man lair of refuse. 
The lizard men take advantage of the cube's presence by 
slicing hunks from the gelatinous cube's bulk, which are 
mixed with green slime to produce a cementlike sub 
stance. 

The lizard men use the glue to bond the unstable sand 
stone of the lair's walls and ceilings and in the lizard 
men's primitive crafts. 

Gelatinous cube (1): AC 8; HD 4*; hp 24; MV 
60' (20'); #AT 1; THAC0 16; Dmg ld4 + paraly 
sis; Save as F2; ML 12; AL C; XP 125; Treasure 
(see below). 

If slain, searching the creature's bulk yields odds and 
ends of treasure worth 50 gp as well as a strangely carved 
wand of ironwood, 6' long and covered with unfamiliar 
primitive symbols. (The item is a wand of water breathing 
created by creatures called otterkin; the wand permits its 
bearer to breath in water like a fish.) 

Location #10. Mushroom Farm 


The room is dark, damp, and rank with the stench of 
decaying manure. Huge, white, pulpy mushrooms 
grow thickly in crude, soil-filled box shelves cemented 
to the walls. 


8 





the A&ventupe 


Lizard men cultivate mushrooms here to supplement 
their diet. If the characters are in need of rest, this would 
be a safe place for them to recover lost hit points and 
spells. 

Location #11. Smoke Room 


As you lift the door flap, a cloud of black, biting 
smoke puffs through the opening. The room smells of 
curing meat. A fire smolders in a pit in the center of the 
room. 

If it is daytime, a tiny column of light illuminates the 
smoky chamber from a small chimney opening high 
overhead. 

From the walls hang the dressed carcasses and cuts 
of meat from a number of large mammals. In one cor 
ner are two headless carcasses-carcasses that may 
have once been lizard men. 


Warn the players that if their characters enter this room, 
the PCs will risk injury from smoke inhalation. (Lizard 
men, adept at sealing their nostrils and eyelids under 
water, are not affected.) For each round spent in this 
room, PCs must roll their Constitution scores or lower or 
take 1 point of smoke inhalation damage. 

A description of this room is evidence of lizard man 
cannibalism and would be worth 25 gp to a sage. 

Location #12. Salamander and Kingfisher 
Family Nests 


You see two nests of lizard men along the northern 
wall in this high-ceilinged chamber. Hesitating only 
momentarily, the two groups of creatures snatch up 
club and spear and attack. 

Two nests of lizard men share this chamber, but only 
whelps and females are here at present. Because the war 
riors are away (they are in Location #21), the PCs receive 
a + 2 bonus to surprise. 

Like the Eel and Turtle family nests in Location #6, the 
Salamander and Kingfisher families here will not attack 
the PCs if they stand in the others' nest. In other words, if 
the PCs stand inside a nest, only one group of lizard men 
will attack since lizard men may not enter the nest of an 
other family. 

Depending upon the direction that the characters entered 
the chamber, the lizard man farthest from the PCs leaves 
immediately to go to the Outer Temple (Location #22) or 
the Smoke Room (Location #11) to spread the alarm. 


Lesser lizard men (2 groups of 3): AC 5; HD 

1 + 1; hp 4-7 each; MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' 
(40'); #AT 1 club; THACO 18; Dmg ld4; Save as 
FI; ML 12; AL N; XP 15; Treasure (see below). 

Each lesser lizard man wears ld6x 10 gps' worth of 
rough gems cemented to its face. Searching the nests re 
veals two snake-skin pouches filled with coins and odd 
bits of metal-the total worth 100 gp. 

Location #13. Vault of Ancestors 

Read the following if the PCs examine the door to this 
room. They may have encountered these symbols before 
if they have ventured to Location #20, or they may know 
what the symbols indicate if they have rescued the slaves 
in Location #18. 


The hide-skin door is marked with dozens of red cir 
cles, each circle surrounding a different red snake- 
squiggle symbol. 

If they choose to enter, read the following. 

The high-vaulted ceiling of this chamber rises 20' 
above you. Arrayed around the walls and up to the 
roof of the chamber are many niches carved in the 
sandstone, each containing a package wrapped in ani 
mal or reptile skin. 

The symbols on the door flap indicate that this room is 
taboo to all but dragonscale clerics. Any creature- 
including PCs-not wearing a cleric's amulet that enters 
this room is attacked by a shadow, a magical embodiment 
of the ancestral spirits guarding this sacred site. 

Shadow (1): AC 7; HD 2 + 2*; hp 14; MV 90' 

(30'); #AT 1 spectral claw; THACO 17; Dmg ld4 
+ drain one Strength point; Save as F2; ML 12; 

AL C; XP 35; Treasure nil. 

Note: A shadow is a spirit guardian and not an un- 
dcad; it cannot be turned by clerics and can be injured 
only by magical or silver weapons or by magical attacks. 

Location #14. Guard Room 


The room is dimly lit by flickering flames rising 
from shallow stone bowls resting in carved niches along 
the sandstone walls of this chamber. A sharp, musty 
odor like an overripe cheese assails your nostrils. 


9 









the A&ventuRe 


This room is directly off Entrance D. The lizard man 
guard here lurks in the southeast corner of the room and 
receives a +3 to surprise. If not slain or silenced during 
the first round of combat, the guard bellows out an echo 
ing alarm that is heard in Locations #17 and 19. 

If the alarm is sounded, the two clerics from Location 
#20, the chieftain and his harem from Location #7, and 
the warriors from Location #21 rush to join the lizard 
men in Location #19. There the lizard men will prepare 
the defense of their lair. 

Lizard man warrior: AC 5; HD 3; hp 20; MV 
60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 war club; 
THAC0 17; Dmg ld6+ 1; Save as F3; ML 12; 

AL N; XP 35; Treasure (see below). 

The lizard man warrior wears ld6 x 50 gps' worth of 
rough gems cemented to his face. 

Location #15. Mold Room 

Read the following if the PCs examine the eastern door to 
this room. 


The door appears to have been made of thin slabs of 
sandstone cemented to a wood-and-laminated-hide 
frame. The seams of the door have been thickly sealed 
with a gray-green muck; a large jar of the strange sub 
stance rests on the floor next to the door. A flickering 
stone bowl lamp and a pile of torches-the first torches 
you have seen-rest next to the jar of muck. 

Read the following if the PCs enter the room. 


The north and south walls are covered with large 
yellow shelf fungi. The yellow fungi here are perfectly 
harmless, but the lizard men keep the doors sealed to 
prevent spreading of the fungus spores. 

This room is currently empty and could prove a safe 
place for PCs to rest and recover lost hit points and spells. 

Location #16. Slime Pits 

Read the following if the PCs enter this room. 


The walls, ceiling, and floor of this chamber are cov 
ered with a glistening, slimy, mosslike growth that is 
thick and green. Every few seconds a small clump falls 
to the floor from the walls and ceiling with a wet, re 
sounding plop. 



The lizard men harvest green slime and combine the 
clumps with hunks of gelatinous cube to make the cement 
that seals the sandstone walls and ceilings of the cave's 
chambers. They also use this substance to laminate hides 
for hide-skins doors and simple artifacts. 

Green slimes move only one square every five melee 
rounds. However, on the ceiling above each square in this 
room hangs a green slime-waiting to drop. 

The first time each square in this room is entered, a PC 
must roll his or her Dexterity score or lower on ld20; if 
the roll is successful, the slime plops to the floor at the 
PC's feet. If the roll is unsuccessful, the slime lands on the 
character and attacks. 

Green slimes (13): HD 2; hp 7 each; MV 3' (1); 

#AT 1; THAC0 18; Dmg-victim turns to green 
slime in ld4 + 6 rounds; Save as F2; ML 12; AL 
N; XP 30; Treasure nil. 


10 


Each square of the room represents a single green slime 







the AdventuRe 


colony. The Dungeon Master should use the green slime 
stand-up counter from the D&D(r) Game black boxed set 
to represent each slime that attacks the characters. 

Location #17. The Hanging Gardens 


If it is daylight outside, dim light filters down from 
small holes in the ceiling. The room's odor is strongly 
reminiscent of tons of boiled spinach. The high walls of 
this long chamber are covered by long, ropy strands of 
thick, green, algaelike growths. 

At intervals along the wall are large woven baskets 
full of harvested, drying vegetation. Two unarmed liz 
ard men are harvesting vegetation from the south wall 
as another lizard man, armed with a club, stands 
nearby-apparently supervising them. 

If not slain or silenced during the first round of combat, 
the slave guard bellows out an echoing alarm that is heard 
in Locations #14, 20, and 21. If this alarm is sounded, the 
two clerics from Location #20, the chieftain and his ha 
rem from Location #7, and the warriors from Location 
#21 will join the lizard men in Location #14, where the 
lizard men will prepare the defense of their lair. 

Lizard men slaves (2): AC 5; HD 1 +1; hp 5, 7; 

MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 bite; 

THAC0 18; Dmg ld4; Save as FI; ML 12; AL 

N; XP 15; Treasure nil. 

Lizard man slave guard/warrior (1): AC 5; HD 

3; hp 20; MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 

war club; THAC0 17; Dmg ld6 + 1; Save as F3; 

ML 12; AL N; XP 35; Treasure (see below). 

The lizard man slave guard wears ld6 x 50 gps' worth 
of rough gems cemented to his face. 

Location #18. Slave Pit 

Read the following if the PCs examine a door to this room 
and enter. 


The hide-skin door to this room is reinforced with a 
wooden framework, and it is barred from the outside- 
obviously to keep something inside. 

Two lizard men are curled up in the southwest cor 
ner, while a naked, filthy elven child with long matted 
hair huddles in the northeast corner with a child-sized 
giant otter. The giant otter has delicate webbed fingers 


and thumbs much like a human's, and the light of in 
telligence burns in its eyes as it stares at you. 

The lizard men keep captives and slaves here. Sharcl, a 
10-year-old elf child, was captured as a very young child 
from an elf settlement and speaks only broken elven and 
Common. The giant otter-an otterkin -was captured 
more recently; its name is Speckled-White-Chin. Sharel 
has taught Speckled-White-Chin to speak a little Com 
mon. Sharel and the otterkin are thin and haggard be 
cause the stronger lizard men slaves get most of the food. 

When the PCs enter this chamber, however, the ot 
terkin and elf child rejoice at the prospect of freedom. The 
lizard men, on the other hand, are confused. They cower 
in the corner but will attempt to escape or attack and steal 
weapons (spears or clublike weapons only) if given the 
chance. 

Lizard men slaves (2): AC 5; HD 1 + 1; hp 5, 7; 

MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 bite; 

THAC0 18; Dmg ld4; Save as FI; ML 12; AL 

N; XP 15; Treasure nil. 

Share] the elf child: AC 9; HD */a; hp 4; MV 

120' (40'); #AT 1; THAC0 19; Dmg ld4; Save as 

FI; ML 7; AL N; XP 5; Treasure nil. 

Otterkin (Speckled-White-Chin): AC 8; HD 1; 

hp 8; MV 90' (30'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 bite; 

THAC0 19; Dmg ld4; Save as FI; ML 7; AL N; 

XP 10; Treasure nil. 

Sharel and Speckled-White-Chin offer to join the PC 
party and help in any way they can. Speckled-White- 
Chin is as intelligent as a 10-year-old human; the otterkin 
speaks broken Common in a high, squeaky voice, much 
like a giant rodent. 

Sharel and the otterkin volunteer information on lizard 
man culture. An example of Speckled-White-Chin's bro 
ken speech begins each explanation of the following 
items. 

• Taboo: "Red circles, little mark inside, taboo! No 
touch, no go! Skveek! Dragonscale cleric only, or bad 
thing!" Only a creature wearing a cleric's amulet may 
touch a taboo object or enter a taboo place. Curses pro 
tect taboo objects and places, but the captives don't know 
what the curses may be. The slaves know that Locations 
#13, 20, and 23 are taboo and that any object belonging 
to a dragonscale cleric is also taboo. 


11 








the a&ventuRe 


• Nests: "Family make nest, border with stones, liz 
ard man no go in other family nest." Each lizard man 
family has its own nest. Lizard men will never enter the 
nest of another family for fear of suffering a curse. 

• Slaves: "Lizard man catch us, other lizard man, 
make slave, then give to dragon to eat, make dragon 
friend. Skveck! Friend Short-Whiskers taken to dragon, 
last day, maybe not dead, must save, you help, yes?" Liz 
ard men raid human, elven, and otterkin settlements and 
other lizard man tribes to capture slaves-slaves who are 
eventually sacrificed to appease the dragons in Location 
#23. Speckled-White-Chin's otterkin friend, Short- 
Whiskers, was taken yesterday to Location #23 to be sac 
rificed. However, sometimes dragons won't take a 
sacrifice for several days if they aren't very hungry. 

Sharel and the otterkin have visited Locations #9, 10, 
and 14-19 and can describe them to the PCs. In particu 
lar they will warn the PCs about the green slime colonies 
in Location #16. 

Location #19. Hall of the Great Dragon Tribe 


In the southwest corner, two lizard man slaves 
crouch at a crude table along the western wall and 
slather gobs of green paste between layers of animal 
hide. Another lizard man, armed with a club, stands 
over the two crouching lizard men. Crude stone bowls 
full of the green paste rest on the floor next to the table. 
In the north end of the room, two lizard men lie on 
their bellies, apparently asleep. 

If the alarm has sounded in Locations #14 or 17, the cler 
ics from Location #20, the chieftain and harem from Lo 
cation #7, and the warriors from Location #21 will be 
here, ready to defend the tribe's lair. 

This is the tribe's common room. The two lizard man 
slaves are laminating animal hides to make new door 
flaps. The armed lizard man is their slave guard. The re 
maining lizard men are sleeping. 

If the PCs attack, the lizard men slaves cower in a cor 
ner or attempt to escape through the south door while the 
slave guard attacks the PCs. The two sleeping lizard men 
are deeply asleep and take two rounds to wake; if attacked 
while asleep, they are automatically slain by any blow. 

Lizard men slaves (2): AC 5; HD 1 + 1; hp 5, 7; 

MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 bite; 

THAC0 18; Dmg ld4; Save as FI; ML 12; AL 

N; XP 15; Treasure nil. 


Lizard man slave guard/warrior (1) and sleep 
ing warriors (2): AC 5; HD 3; hp 15, 12, 16; 

MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 bite; 
THAC0 17; Dmg ld6; Save as F3; ML 12; AL 
N; XP 35; Treasure (see below). 

The lizard man slave guard wears ld6 x 50 gps' worth 
of rough gems cemented to his face. The green paste is 
made by mixing chunks of gelatinous cube with green 
slime-producing an excellent glue. A sample of this 
green paste delivered to a sage is worth 100 gp. 

Location #20. Dragonscale Clerics' Chamber 

Read the following if the PCs examine the door to this 
room and enter. They may have encountered these sym 
bols before if they have ventured to Location #13, or they 
may know what the symbols indicate if they have rescued 
the slaves in Location #18. 


The hide-skin door is marked with dozens of red cir 
cles, each circle surrounding a different red snake- 
squiggle symbol. 

The southeast and southwest comers are marked off 
by lines of stones. Within the boundaries are small 
piles of animal hides. The walls and low ceiling of the 
chamber are covered with thousands of small red cir 
cles, each with smaller red marks within. 

The walls and ceilings are inscribed with marks and 
symbols that tell the story of the Great Tribe and its occu 
pancy of this cave complex. A read languages spell will yield 
the following information. 


The Tribe came here 112 cold seasons ago, a poor 
and weak tribe driven from their old cave by evil lizard 
men. They found only a small cave here, which over 
many seasons they excavated to create the Great Lair. 

Twenty-seven cold seasons ago Mouth-of-Burning- 
Slime, the black dragon, came and drove the Tribe 
from the Great Lair. Gresst, spawn of clerics, pleaded 
with the black dragon, who felt great remorse and ten 
derly promised to protect the Tribe forever. It said that 
the Tribe should ever henceforth be known as the Great 
Dragon Tribe and that the Tribe should enjoy the pro 
tection of Mouth-of-Buming-Slime and all its line. 

In token of its protection, the black dragon gave 
Gresst one of its scales to wear as a breastplate, and it 
said that henceforth Gresst and his spawn should be 
known as Dragonscale Clerics, and that his line should 


12 







the A&ventuRe 


grow great with wisdom and magical power. 

In the happy seasons that followed, the Great Drag 
on Tribe has prospered, having extended its caves and 
grown strong. Now Great Dragon Tribe is rich in trea 
sure and captives-of-raids and is greatly feared and 
honored among the lizard men of the Great Swamp. 

This chamber is considered taboo and may only be en 
tered by a creature wearing a cleric's amulet (see below). 
Any intruders are attacked by a guardian shadow. 

Shadow (1): AC 7; HD 2 + 2*; hp 14; MV 90' 
(30'); #AT 1 spectral claw; THACO 17; Dmg ld4 
+ drain one Strength point; Save as F2; ML 12; 

AL C; XP 35; Treasure nil. 

Shadows can be injured only by magical or silver weap 
ons or by magical attacks. 

If the alarm has sounded in Locations #14 or 17, the 
dragonscale clerics are in Location #19 with the chieftain, 
harem, and warriors. Otherwise the clerics are here med 
itating, which gives a +2 to the PCs' surprise roll. 

High dragonscale cleric: AC 4(5); HD 4***; hp 

20; MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 bite; 
THACO 16; Dmg ld4; Save as C4; ML 12; AL 
N; XP 200; "IVeasure (see below). Spells known: 

All 1st- and 2nd-level clerical spells; can use two 
1 st-level and one 2nd-levcl spell per day. 

Dragonscale cleric: AC 4 (5); HD 2*; hp 10; 

MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 bite; 
THACO 18; Dmg ld4; Save as C2; ML 12; AL 
N; XP 25; Treasure (see below). Spells known: 

All 1 st-level clerical spells; can use one 1 st-level 
spell per day. 

The high cleric wears a dragonscale chestplatc that acts 
as a shield + 7; he also wears a gem of protection vs. sleep and 
charm (neither sleep nor charm spells have any effect on the 
wearer) and a cleric's amulet, a stone ornament marked 
with a red circle and red snake-squiggles like the mark 
ings on the door to this room. A creature wearing a cler 
ic's amulet may enter any taboo area (Locations #13, 20, 
and 23) without being attacked by a shadow. 

The second cleric wears a dragonscale chestplate that 
acts as a shield + 1; he also wears a cleric's amulet like the 
high cleric's. 

In combat the clerics use darkness (reversed light) or si 


lence 15' radius to neutralize attacking spellcasters and mis 
sile attackers; hold person or cause fear (reversed remove fear) 
against one or two attackers; or darkness against a large 
group to permit escape. 

Both clerics wear all their treasure. Cemented to the 
skin of their heads are gems and precious stones. The 
gemstones on the high cleric are worth 1,200 gp, and one 
stone is the magical gem of protection vs. sleep and charm. The 
other cleric wears 250 gps' worth of gemstones. 

Location #21. Trophy Hall of Warriors 

The high-vaulted ceiling of this chamber rises 30' 
above you. Arrayed around the walls and up to the 
roof of the chamber are hundreds of grim, mummified, 
lizard man heads-heads that have been painted with 
vivid red, blue, and green pigmented clays. The skulls 
stare down on you from niches carved in the sand 
stone. Along with a mummified head, several niches 
hold spears, clubs, and artifacts of stone and metal, 
some of which are decorated with feathers, bones, and 
glittering stones. 

If no alarm has sounded, the warriors are lounging 
around the chamber, munching dried meats from bowls 
and boasting idly of battle exploits. At the appearance of 
the PCs, however, they snatch up their war clubs and at 
tack. If the alarm has sounded in Locations #14 or 17, the 
warriors have moved to Location #19 to defend their lair 
from the intruders. 

Lizard man warriors (3): AC 5; HD 3; hp 15, 

16, 20; MV 60' (20'), Swim 120' (40'); #AT 1 war 

club; THACO 17; Dmg ld6 + 1; Save as F3; ML 

12; AL N; XP 35; Treasure (see below). 

Each lizard man warrior wears ld6 x 50 gps' worth of 
rough gems cemented to his face. 

A thorough search of the wall niches for treasure re 
quires six turns for a skilled climber (a thief, a halfling, or 
a magic-user using the levitate spell). Two climbers can 
complete the search in half the time. Searchers find the 
following: 

• Turn 1 , a silver chain (worth 200 gp). 

• Turn 2, a magical war club decorated with precious 
stones (a mace +7; decorations worth 250 gp). 

• Turn 3, an amulet made from the sternum of a lizard 
man, marked with a red circle and snake squiggles (a cler 
ic's amulet that also acts as an amulet of protection + 1). 

• Turn 4, a staff apparently made from a petrified 


13 





the a&ventuRe 


snake (a snake staff ). 

• Turn 5, stones and coins worth 100 gp. 

• Turn 6 , stones and coins worth 50 gp. 

A detect magic will reveal the location of all magical 
items, which can be swifdy gathered by a single climber 
in one turn. Roll ld6 each turn the PCs search. On a roll 
of 1, wandering monsters appear. See the Wandering 
Monster Table on page 3. 

Location #22. The Outer Temple 

This passage is lit by a single flickering bowl lamp. 
The walls are decorated with crude murals depicting 
lizard men in various activities-harvesting slime and 
algae, tunneling caves, raiding other lizard man caves, 
hunting a variety of swamp creatures, and so forth. 
Most striking are the repeated scenes of a huge black 
dragon devouring bound lizard men, giant otters, and 
humans. You notice that in several murals the large 
dragon is accompanied by two smaller dragons. 

There is nothing useful in this room. 

Location #23. Shrine of the Serpents 

Read the following if the PCs examine the door to this 
room and enter. They are likely to have encountered 
these symbols before, and they should know that this is a 
dangerous taboo area. 

The hide-skin door is marked with dozens of red cir 
cles, each circle surrounding a different red snake- 
squiggle symbol. 

A 5' x 10' slab of sandstone forms an altar on the 
west wall. Upon the altar is the figure of a bound-and- 
gagged, apparently unconscious, giant otter covered 
with spatters of red-pigmented clay. 

The shrine room is taboo and may only be entered by a 
creature wearing a cleric's amulet (see Location #20). In 
truders are attacked by a guardian shadow. 

Shadow (1): AC 7; HD 2 + 2*; hp 14; MV 90' 
(30'); #AT 1 spectra] claw; THAC0 17; Dmg ld4 
+ drain one Strength point; Save as F2; ML 12; 

AL C; XP 35; Treasure nil. 

Shadows can be injured only by magical or silver weap 
ons or by magical attacks. 

The otterkin Short-Whiskers has been left here as a 
sacrifice to the black dragons. Fortunately, the dragons 


have not investigated the shrine looking for food. The ot 
terkin is in shock; he can be awakened, but he cannot 
speak and can barely move under his own power. He can 
not help the PCs in any way. 

Location #24. Dragons' Lair 

Before the PCs enter the dragons' lair, the DM should ask 
one or more of the players to make three percentile rolls. 
The DM can write down the scores without explaining 
what they are for. These rolls determine whether any of 
the three dragons are asleep; on a roll of 40 or less, a given 
dragon is asleep. Read the following when the PCs are 
ready. 


This chamber is absolutely dark, but you sense a 
large open space. You hear a loud, rattling hissing like 
a giant snoring from the west side of the room. 

Characters who have infravision see a massive, hud 
dled bulk of dragonhide in the northwest corner of the 
chamber; this is Hakra the elder dragon and her two 
hatchlings. The eyes of any awake dragon glint like a cat's 
eyes in the dark; the PCs can at least tell how many pairs 
of eyes are watching them. 

If the PCs withdraw to plan or confer, they are sur 
prised by the sudden appearance and pursuit of the two 
hatchlings, who can easily fit through the corridors of the 
lair. 

If the player characters advance into the lair, the hatch 
lings immediately charge forward to attack while the old 
er dragon maneuvers for a clear shot with her breath 
weapon. 

Hakra and her brood immediately attack the PC party 
as soon as they are aware of its presence. Hakra is fierce 
in defense of her treasure, but she is most concerned 
about her hatchlings. If a hatchling is slain or if Hakra is 
reduced to 10 hp or fewer, she cries out in Common. She 
will offer to surrender on two conditions: 1) that the PCs 
promise to spare the lives of her young, and 2) that she be 
permitted to remove herself to exile in the Peaks of Hof- 
fam. If the PCs appear to be interested, but not con 
vinced, she also offers to reveal the secret hiding place of 
her most valuable treasures. 

Hakra is absolutely untrustworthy; she will make every 
attempt to cheat or betray her oath. However, if the PCs 
keep a constant sword at her throat, she can be trusted to 
honor any terms of surrender. The hatchlings are com 
pletely bestial and unintelligent as yet and make no at 
tempt to surrender under any circumstances, though-at 
the DM's discretion-they may flee if injured. 


14 







Fi££YU;. 5 "%V v % i 

\V I 

s\ ^ 

'^a. ;¦¦ %* 

V-V V nskV^'OV,. " 

. ¦*-?.'Va& ja y 1 

1% 

"-/k iftj&asasB 


P"1 

v.' • iJai 


ofilsiip 

*" " . * • ## >-.,* r ^ 

* + *• s^-- 


MflMk 








the Adventupe 


Hakra the black dragon: AC 2; HD 5**; hp 28; 
MV 90' (30'); #AT 2 claws/1 bite/breath weapon; 
THACO 15; Dmg ld4 + l/ld4 + l/2dl0/special; 
Save as F5; ML 8; AL C; XP 425; Treasure (see 
below). May use breathe weapon three times a 
day. Breath weapon is a 60' x 5' line of acid start 
ing from the dragon's mouth. 

Hatchling black dragons (2): AC 8; HD 1 **; hp 

7, 8; MV 90' (30'); #AT 2 claws/1 bite/breath 
weapon; THACO 19; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld6/special; 
Save as FI; ML 4; AL C; XP 16; Treasure (see 
below). Hatchling breath weapon is as Hakra's, 
except it may only be used once a day. 


The breath weapon may be used in addition to other 
normal attacks. Damage is equal to the dragon's current 
hit point score; therefore, damage done to a dragon re 
duces damage caused by its breath. 

The dragon hoard is piled in the northwest comer of 
the lair and includes the following: 1,500 cp; 750 sp; 
2,000 ep; 400 gp; 300 pp; and 15 gems. Hakra's greatest 
treasure, however, is hidden at the bottom of the pool be 
neath a sandstone slab. If the PCs think to look there, 
they will find a sword + 1, locate objects-, a ring of weakness-, 
three potions of ESP, and a shield + 1. 


the Joupney Back 


The PCs can leave the Wild Dragon Den the same way 
they entered and thus encounter little resistance. If they 
decide to explore any areas they have not visited instead, 
it would be wise for them to rest in the dragon lair first 
and regain spells and hit points. 

If the PCs made a deal to let Hakra and her brood es 
cape to exile in the Peaks of HofTam, Wortley will initially 
refuse to pay for the mission, claiming that the promised 
evidence has not been presented. Eventually he will agree 
to pay if the PCs will all submit to a magical interrogation 
to confirm their story. 

If the PCs are successful in the mission, Hakra's sev 
ered head may be presented to Bailiff Wortley as proof of 
success. (The head's encumbrance is 500 cn.) Proof of 
success, however, isn't limited to Hakra's head. If Hakra 
surrenders or is subdued and returned to Wortley, that is 


proof indeed! Wortley will then gladly pay the 1,000 gp 
bonus mentioned in his "Wanted-Bold Adventurers!" 
flyer. 

If the hatchlings are slain, Wortley at first resists of 
fering any additional payment, claiming that the hatch 
lings were not part of the bargain. After a short 
argument, however, he will offer an additional 300 gp 
each for the dead hatchlings. If the hatchlings are sub 
dued and delivered for the procession through town, 
Wortley offers 500 gp apiece. 

The PCs and evidence of their triumph (Hakra's sev 
ered head, a subdued Hakra, and/or her hatchlings) are 
paraded through the streets of Yarrow. Folk of all classes 
gather in the streets to goggle at the spectacle, and the 
heroes are treated to many free meals at which they are 
forced to recount the details of their adventures. 


16 












Official Game Adventure 

Wyrmhaven 

Table of Contents 


Wyrmhaven. 

The Briefing .... 
The Adventure .... 

The Journey Back 
Dragon's Den Game 


Credits 


Design ..Ken Rolston 

Editing .Don "The Barbarian" Watry 

Product Manager .Bruce A. Heard 

Cover Art ..Jeff Easley 

Poster Map Art & Counter Art .Robin Raab 

Stand-up Character Art ...John Statema 

Interior Art .Terry Dykstra 

Art Coordinator.Peggy Cooper 

Cartography ...Dennis Kauth 

Typography .Gaye O'Keefe 

Production .Sarah Fcggestad 

Graphic Design..Stephanie Tabat 

Play testers .Jack Canfield, Maryann Dolschenko, 

Richard Gamer, Paul & Anna Harmaty, Eleanor Krukowski, Steve Mecca, Henry 
Monteferrante, Daria Swain, Rustam Tarafdar, and all those at TSR, Inc. 


• 1992 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Primed in the U.S.A. 

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and DAD are registered trademarks owned by TSR, lor. 

The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR. Inc. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English 
language products of TSR, Inc. Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR 
Ltd. 
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 

This module is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorised use 
of the material or artwork presented herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, 
Inc 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva 
WI 53147 USA 


TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End, Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


1073XXX1902 





































WyRmhaven 


A shrewd, spell-using green dragon has taken over the deepest cham 
ber of a limestone cave as his lair. The dragon has persuaded a tribe of 
troglodytes to live in the outer chambers as a sort of "protective 
buffer" in return for gifts of magical treasure. The troglodytes cherish 
these useless bits of magic without realizing their modest worth. 

The outer chambers of the cave are protected by the troglodytes, the 
beetles and centipedes the troglodytes raise as catde, and wild crea 
tures. The green dragon uses traps, illusions, and magical devices to 
protect his inner chambers. 

Adventure Overview 

Wyrmhaven is the second dragon's den to conquer, and it is recom 
mended that players tackle this adventure before attempting the League 
of the Red Serpent. 

Wyrmhaven is designed for three to four characters of 2nd to 4th 
levels. If there are more than four players or if the characters are of 
higher levels, the DM should make some of the encounters more diffi 
cult. The DM will need to have the black basic DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS(r) Game so that he or she has the rules and additional 
stand-ups. Otherwise, the only things needed to play this adventure 
are a few friends, some paper and pencils, and the desire to rid Dallow 
Keep of a green dragon! 

DM Notes 

Here are some notes for the DM to keep in mind when running this 
adventure. 

• Boxed text: Boxed text should be read aloud to give players a 
basic description of the scenes, events, monsters, and characters they 
encounter at that point of the adventure. If preferred, the DM can use 
his or her own words instead as long as the important information in 
the boxed text is given. 

• Wandering monsters: There are no wandering monsters in 
Wyrmhaven, so the DM will not need to check for encounters. 

• Monsters, troglodytes, and the dragon: The dragon allows the 
less-intelligent monsters to live in his limestone cave so that they can 
serve as guardians and discourage any would-be dragon slayers. The 
troglodytes, on the other hand, are actually being paid to stay at 
Wyrmhaven. 

The dragon gives the troglodyte cleric simple magical items; in re 
turn, the trogs keep intruders from the cave. Unbeknownst to the cler 
ic, however, the dragon only gives him worthless (or even dangerous) 
magical items. Although the troglodytes don't understand magic, they 
are nevertheless very proud to own items that glow when the cleric 
casts his deUct magic spell. In fact, neighboring troglodyte tribes are 
quite impressed when the Wyrmhaven tribe shows up at big troglodyte 
gatherings all decked out with their useless or sometimes even cursed 
magical trappings. 

• Doors: These doors are made of split logs crudely pegged togeth 
er. They are extremely bulky, heavy, and durable, with no latches or 
locks, but they can be barred or wedged. 

• Limestone caverns: The limestone of these caves is virtually in 
destructible. Characters have no chance of causing cave-ins or break 
ing through walls. The walls and ceilings are composed of cool, damp, 
smooth stone-often steep and irregular and hard to climb. Unless 
otherwise noted, the floors are bare stone. 

• Light leaks: During daylight hours, Locations #1-6 are dimly lit 
by light filtering in from cracks and holes in the ceiling. The light is 
strong enough to blind infravision, but too weak to permit clear vision 
for more than 30 feet (six squares). At night, Locations #1-6 are pilch 
black and infravision is unaffected. 


• Trog fire beetle lamps: Locations #7-12 are dimly lit by lumi 
nous glands taken from fire beetles. The glands give off light in a 10- 
foot radius and last for ld6 days. 

• Troglodyte stench: Each time a PC enters a square next to a 
troglodyte or a troglodyte enters a square next to a PC, the PC must 
make a saving throw vs. poison or be nauseated by the foul odor. A 
nauseated PC suffers a - 2 penalty to his or her hit rolls in hand-to- 
hand combat. Nausea continues as long as the PC is still in a square 
next to a troglodyte. When the PC (or troglodyte) moves more than a 
square away, the PC ceases to be nauseated. 

• Sniffing in the caves: Just as PCs may listen for noises, PCs may 
also sniff for distinctive odors. When a character is sniffing, whether in 
general or at a door, the DM can roll ld6. If the result is a 1 (or a 1-2 
for elves or halflings), any distinctive odors in the area or on the far 
side of the door may be detected. In particular, a successful sniff will 
reveal whether troglodytes or troglodyte torches are in the area or on 
the far side of a door. 

• Shallow pools and partially flooded passages and chambers: 

Water in these places is 1' to 4*/2' deep, restricting movement to x h 
normal. Anything below the surface of the water cannot be seen, even 
with magical light. Hand-to-hand attacks are at a - 2 penalty and mis 
sile attacks are at the same. Aquatic creatures suffer no such to-hit 
penalty. 

• Deep pools and flooded passages and chambers: Water in these 
places is over a character's head. PCs in any kind of armor at all sink 
to the bottom and can only move a maximum of one square per round. 
Unarmored PCs can move three squares per round. Characters trav 
eling underwater must roll their Constitution score or lower on ld20 
each round or take 1 point of drowning damage. Hand-to-hand at 
tacks are at a - 4 penalty and missile attacks are impossible to per 
form. Aquatic creatures suffer a - 2 to-hit penalty. 

• Trogspcak: The PCs cannot understand troglodyte speech, but 
the DM can make the creatures seem more real to the players by mak 
ing "trog" noises when troglodytes speak to one another. The DM can 
grunt, gargle, growl, and make deep rumbling noises in the back of his 
or her throat while speaking nonsense syllables to give the impression 
of troglodyte speech. 

• Magical items: The magical treasures of the troglodytes are ei 
ther worthless or cursed items that the dragon doesn't want in his trea 
sure hoard. The troglodytes, on the other hand, are unaware that the 
treasures given to them are really trash, and so they will guard these 
treasures fiercely. The PCs may find these magical items amusing 
and/or obnoxious, but they can at least be sold to collectors. 

• The green dragon's tactics: Nefastus is warned of intruders 
when the illusion in Location #20 is set off. He immediately casts a 
mirror image spell, creating two additional images of himself. In the 
next round he casts a darkness spell on the northern end of his lair. After 
mirror image and darkness are cast, he continues to pantomime the 
actions of a spellcaster until a PC enters his lair, at which point he 
attacks with his chlorine gas breath. (Nefastus thinks-quite sensibly, 
too-that the appearance of three spellcasting dragons will unnerve 
most intruders.) He uses his three breath weapon attacks on any oppo 
nent, then his three magic missile spells or his claw and bite attacks. 

These tactics would normally be very effective, but the PCs' party is 
unusually well prepared, thanks to Bailiff Wortley. Their continual light gem 
will cancel the darkness spell, and the water helms and potions of water breath 
ing can make them invulnerable to the dragon's breath weapon. 

Heroes who can withstand three dragon-breath attacks without suf 
fering damage and who can cancel darkness without effort must seem to 
be very tough customers indeed in Nefastus's eyes. When the DM acts 


2 



WyRm haven 


out the dragon's responses, he or she should play up the monster's 
original contemptuous disdain for the puny adventurers, then his 
growing horror and disbelief as the "puny" adventurers ignore his 
magical protection and mighty breath weapon. Of course, the PCs get 
their own nasty surprise when they think they are facing three-not 
one-green dragons. 

Monsters 

Throughout this adventure, the characters will confront dangerous 
monsters. When such encounters occur, information about each mon 
ster is presented in the following format. 

Name of Monster (number encountered): AC (armor 
class); HD (hit dice); hp (hit points); MV (movement rate); 

#AT (number of attacks); THACO (see below); Dmg (dam 
age inflicted per attack); Save as (what the monster's saving 
throw is based on); ML (morale rating); AL (alignment); 

XP (experience reward for defeating the monster); Treasure 
(how much treasure the monster has). 

One of the entries, THACO, may be new to beginning players and 
DMs. It stands for "To Hit Armor Class 0." lo determine the roll a 
monster needs to hit a character with a specific armor class, simply 
subtract the target's AC from the monster's THACO number. Thus, if 
a monster's THACO is 19 and its target is AC 3, the monster needs to 
roll a 16 or better to hit the character. 

DM Reference Map 

In addition to the large poster map, which the DM will use with the 
players so that they can position their stand-ups, a copy of the 
Wyrmhaven map is included on the following page. This map shows 
the location of monsters, traps, and other important features. 

The DM will want to place the large poster map on the table for all 
the players to sec, but he or she will want to refer to the reference map 
for his or her own use. 

The Briefing 

The players should have already read the "Wanted-Bold Adventur 
ers!" handout and know what's in store for them, particularly if they 
defeated the black dragon from the Wild Dragon Den. They know 
that Bailiff Wortley needs their help in ridding the countryside of an 
even more fearsome dragon and his minions. 

Wordey's agent, Sascia, hands the players the Wyrmhaven map. 
Sascia has the following to say. 


"The forested hills of Dallow along the lower Iron River are hon 
eycombed with limestone caves. Before Dallow Keep was built, the 
king surveyed many caves as potential garrison and supply sta 
tions. Your map is based on one of these survey maps. Of course, at 
the time of the survey the caves were uninhabited. Now a dragon 
and a troglodyte coloney have moved into this cave. 

"The major rooms and chambers follow the course of a long- 
dead underground river that once issued from the mouth of the 
cave. When the local water level dropped, the water course dried 
up and left spectacular open caverns. The caverns are young, as 
evidenced by the scarcity of large stalagmites and stalactites. At the 
time of the survey, seasonal waters still flowed through small 
streams and pools in the caves. 


"Scouts from Dallow Keep confirm the existence of a troglodyte 
colony of unknown size living in the caverns. Their stench is un 
bearably distinctive-" here Sascia wrinkles her nose in remem 
bered repugnance, "-and trog footprints have been spotted in the 
vicinity. 

"Troglodytes are intelligent but primitive. They use tools but 
have not been observed using weapons-perhaps because their 
own natural weaponry is sufficient for their hunting needs. They 
have clerics who have rudimentary magical abilities, but we know 
little of what those powers may be. They shouldn't pose a threat to 
a well-armed group of your size." 

Sascia pauses to clear her throat, looking about the room. "The 
green dragon itself has been seen in the skies over Dallow Keep, 
and we have numerous eyewitness reports of the dragon taking cat 
tle from farms in the neighboring Kell shire Dales. We have no con 
firmed reports of attacks on human, elf, or halfling settlements, but 
disappearances of travelers and traders along our Wcstron Road 
and along the Coastfollow and Wardlc River Roads in the Kellshire 
Dales have been attributed to the dragon. 

"By all accounts the dragon is a fairly small green, but shrewd 
and intelligent nonetheless. It is almost certainly a spellcaster, per 
haps with a mastery of illusion and concealment, which might ac 
count for the absence of eyewitness reports. 

"In short, we believe the dragon to be a very dangerous 
opponent-and doubly so in its own lair." 


Bailiff Wortley turns to the PCs as Sascia leaves. Passing out the 
equipment on a nearby table, Wortley explains that, like the last ad 
venture, he has some items that may help the PCs with their task. 

• Water helms and potions of water breathing. "My advisors tell 
me that chlorine-breathing potions are theoretically possible but as yet 
unavailable. They've designed these leather bags with glass faceplates 
instead. You fill the bags with water and wear them over your head- 
after taking the potions, of course. A bit awkward, I'm afraid, but 
they should protect you from the chlorine breath weapon. Er, unless 
the bag or the glass breaks, that is. These contraptions should also 
provide some protection against the wretched stench of the trogs. A 
pity they are only effective for an hour." 

One leather bag and one potion are provided for each PC. The de 
vice protects against chlorine gas attacks, but it is destroyed the first 
time a PC takes damage from any other kind of attack. The mask pro 
vides no further protection against the chlorine breath weapon then. 

• Three waterproof sacks. "These'll keep your torches and gear 
dry if you must cross flooded passages." 

• TVo continual light gems in heavy, opaque leather pouches. 
"Like last time, these gems will light your way, even under water." 

• Three healing potions. "Again, I hope these will be sufficient for 
your needs." 

• One potion of giant strength. "As before, if you use the potion 
it'll cost you 500 gp when you return. No charge if you return it in 
tact." 

• Six neutralise poison clerical scrolls. "Had some extras handy, 
but I hope you won't need them." 

• One fireball scroll (for magic-users or elves). "Very dangerous 
to use these underground in enclosed areas-all the gases trapped be 
low ground, you know." The fireball causes 6d6 points of damage. 

• One detect invisible scroll and one floating disk scroll (for 
magic-users or elves). "These may come in handy." The scrolls per 
mit one use of each spell. 


3 

















the A6ventupe 


When the players are ready to begin, the DM should read aloud the 
following. 

You look over the Wyrmhaven map and note the cavern entrance 
and the landmarks to find. Your party makes the two-day wilder 
ness trek to the cavern entrance without incident. Once at the en 
trance, you may enter immediately or camp outside and enter after 
dark. What do you do? 


The entrance is a rocky ledge under an overhanging cliff of exposed 
bedrock. The ledge itself, the opening on the left, and the door to the 
right are hidden from an outside observer by dense shrub and forest 
growth. 

Successful sniff and listen rolls indicate musty, animal odors and low 
rumbling noises from the left-hand opening, and foul odors but no 
sound from the door. 

If the party waits until after dark, they are likely to run into troglo 
dytes, which are nocturnal creatures and thus more active at night. 
However, the PCs who have infravision will not be affected in Loca 
tions #1-6 by light leaks if it is night. On the other hand, if the party 
enters during daylight hours, they won't need torches in Locations 
#1-6. In either case, when they do enter the cave, place light markers 
by the stand-ups of those characters carrying light sources. 

Location #1. Grizzly Bear Den 

You see a long cavern about 60 feet deep. There's no sign of trog 
lodyte or dragon traffic, but in the far end of the room you see a 
large, indistinct form. As you watch, the form moves slightly and 
growls. 

(If viewed with infravision at night, the only thing you see is a 
pair of yellow eyes glowing in the dark.) 


If a PC enters the cavern, the bear charges and attacks. If a PC enters and 
leaves, the bear charges the length of the room but halts and waits just 
inside the opening. If the PCs do not enter, the bear does not move at all 
The DM should note that hand-to-hand combat with a grizzly bear 
is very dangerous; low-level PCs could die here if they arc careless. 
The DM should not direct both paw attacks against one target unless a 
PC is fighting the bear alone-the additional 2d8 damage from a hug 
could finish off many characters. The PCs have one turn of missile and 
magical attacks before the bear is in range for hand-to-hand combat. If 
the PCs fight the bear, they must make these attacks count. 

Grizzly bear (1): AC8; HD 5*. hp 25; MV 120' (40'); #AT 

2 claws/1 bite; THACO 15; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld8; Save as F2; 

ML 7; AL N; XP 125; Treasure nil. 

If the bear hits one target with both claw attacks, the victim receives 
an additional 2d8 damage from a hug that same round. 

Location #2. Bat Cave 

The walls of this room are alive with thousands of tiny glowing 
eyes, blinking and staring at you from above. 


Although bats cannot harm the PCs, if they are disturbed from their rest 
they will warn the troglodytes of intruders. Bats are automatically dis 
turbed by any noise (even whispered speech) or light brought into this 
room. If the players specifically tell the DM that they wish to avoid dis 
turbing the bats as they move through this room, each character must 


roll Dexterity score or lower on ld20 to avoid making noise. 

If entering the room during daylight hours, modify the PCs' die roll 
by - 4, which will give them a bonus. (Note that the PCs won't need a 
light because of daylight filtering into the chamber from above.) Cast 
ing a silence 15' radius spell may automatically avoid disturbing the bats 
at the DM's discretion. 

If the bats are disturbed, they fly around the room in confusion for a 
full turn until they have all exited through small holes and cracks in 
the roof of the cave. The noise of their passing is certain to have 
warned the troglodytes of intruders. 

Location #3. Gray Ooze Colony 

This chamber is empty-too empty. With cracks in the ceiling, 
there should be some mosses growing here, but all you see is bare, 
wet stone and, over in one comer, a mound of tiny bones. 


The pile of bones is from birds, bats, and small animals that have 
blundered into the room and been eaten by the gray oozes. When not 
moving, gray oozes arc invisible in dim normal daylight or torchlight. 
If the chamber is lit with magical light (a light spell or continual light 
gem), the gray oozes shimmer slighdy; have the PCs roll Intelligence 
or lower on ld20 to identify the shimmering. Once they have moved, 
however, gray oozes are visible to all. 

Gray oozes (2): AC8; HD 3 # ; hp 15, 19; MV 10' (3'); #AT 

1; THACO 17; Dmg 2d8; Save as F2; ML 12; AL N; XP 50; 

Treasure nil. 

The positions of the oozes are marked on the DM's reference map 
on page 4. The oozes do not move until someone enters the room, then 
move at one square per round toward the intruder. The first successful 
attack does not cause damage to the victim, but it does destroy the 
victim's armor or clothing. The ooze sticks to the flesh of the victim 
until slain, causing 2d8 points of damage each subsequent round it is 
attached. Since the oozes destroy weapons, the safest tactic is to use 
missile weapons or magical attacks to destroy them. 

Location #4. Outer Chamber 

A foul odor announces the presence of troglodytes in this long 
chamber. You see a group in the east and a group in the west end of 
the room, yet their chameleonlike skin blends so well with the rock 
that you're not sure just how many you face. 


If the PCs enter from the west, the two trogs in the west end of the 
room attack while the other four attempt to retreat to Location #7 as 
they croak and grunt to warn of intruders. 

If the PCs enter from the cast, all six troglodytes will attack. 

Troglodytes (6): AC5; HD 2*; hp 4, 8, 10, II, 13, 14; MV 
120* (40'); #AT 2 daws/1 bite; THACO 18; Dmg Id4/ld4/ 
ld4; Save as F2; ML 9; AL C; XP 30; Treasure nil. Surprise 
on 1-4. Save vs. poison or be nauseated for a - 2 to hit in 
combat. 

Location #5. Troglodyte Warrior 

The foul reck in this room is almost overpowering. A huge trog 
lodyte springs forward to attack your party, brandishing a magic- 
user's wand like a weapon. 


5 











the Aiwentupe 



The largest, meanest troglodyte in a tribe gets a private room. The 
catch is that the private room guards the entrance to the tribe's lair. 

The troglodyte warrior fights to the death to preserve his high status 
in the tribe. 

The warrior's high status entitles him to carry two magical items. 
The wand he attacks with is a wand oj bug repellent, this wand drives 
away all normal-sized insects in a 5-foot-radius sphere. However, the 
warrior is using the wand as a clumsy, too-light club. 

The warrior's other magical treasure is a potion wrapped in a leath 
er pouch that dangles from his neck. The potion has gone bad, and 
though it is still magical it is now a potion ojpotson. A magic-user can 
normally tell the potion is spoiled by snifTing its contents; however, 
until the PCs have left Wyrmhaven, the potion's odor cannot be de 
tected because of the troglodyte stench. 

Troglodyte warrior (1): AC5; HD 4*; hp 29; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1 claw/1 wand/1 bite; THACO 16; Dmg Id4/ld4/ 

Id4; Save as F4; ML 12; AL C; XP 125; Treasure nil. Sur 
prise on 1-4. Save vs. poison or be nauseated for a - 2 to hit 
in hand-to-hand combat. 

Location #6. Males Dormitory 

If no alarm has been raised, read the following. 

You almost fall over because of the hideous stench. Troglodytes 
are lounging against the cave walls, but they jump up from their 
reeking pile of animal skins and charge you-croaking and hissing 
all the while and threatening you with tooth and claw. 


Troglodytes (4): AC5; HD 2*; hp 10, 11, 13, 14; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 2 claws/1 bite; THACO 18; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld4; 

Save as F2; ML 9; AL C; XP 30; Treasure (see below). Sur 
prise on I -4. Save vs. poison or be nauseated for a - 2 to hit 
in hand-to-hand combat. 

If the troglodytes from Location #4 have raised an alarm or the bats 
from Location #2 were disturbed, this room is currently empty as the 
troglodytes that sleep here have moved to Location #7. Read aloud the 
following. 


A stinking mound of straw covered with untanned (and still 
somewhat raw) animal skins in the northern part of this room is 
where the troglodytes sleep. The stench is overwhelming. 


If the PCs can bear to search the filthy troglodyte "bed," the follow 
ing magical treasures are found: 

* Bag of Levitation. When any single object smaller than one foot in 
cubic volume is placed in this bag, the bag floats upward like a helium 
balloon. If the user doesn't hold onto the bag or fasten it down, the bag 
will promptly head for the stratosphere. If a second object is placed in 
the bag, the levitation effect is canceled and the bag crashes to the 
ground. Although the bag is useful for carrying any single, small, 
heavy object, it is useless for carrying coins and larger treasures. It is 
worth 200 pp to a collector, provided one can be found. 

• Rope of Climbing (four 5-foot lengths). Unfortunately, the tribal 
cleric cut up this rope oj climbing into 5-foot lengths so that many trogs 
could have a piece. (There are six other pieces in Location #10.) The 


6 









the AOventupe 


bits of magical rope can be spliced together by any ropemaker for the 
price of a normal length of rope. 

Location #7. Larder 

If no alarm has been raised, the DM should read aloud the following. 

This room is dimly lit by eight luminous objects fastened to the 
walls around the room at shoulder height. Along the northern walls 
of this large chamber are heaps of rotting vegetation. Hanging on 
the walls are dried husks of giant beetles and centipedes. 


If the troglodytes from Location #4 have raised an alarm, the DM 
should read aloud the boxed text below. This room holds the troglo 
dytes that escaped from Location #4, the four from Location #6, the 
six from Location #10, and the cleric from Location #12. The troglo 
dytes have massed here in the larder to defend their lair. 

The stench is absolutely, overwhelmingly, hideously obnoxious. The 
whole troglodyte tribe is packed into this large room to defend its lair. 
Upon seeing you they press forward, croaking and hissing angrily, 
pushing past one another to slash you with their sharp claws. 


Normally this room is used only for food storage, but, when at 
tacked, the troglodytes gather here to defend the lair. The bright or 
ange cleric stands in the back of the crowd and casts his hold person spell 
at the PCs. Trogs do not slay held PCs but they do take captives. 

A PC party with sleep spells should be able to handle this crowd in one 
try, but a less well-prepared or an unlucky party may need to retreat, rest, 
heal, memorize spells, and come back to finish off the troglodytes. 

Location #8. Beetle Kennel 

Five huge beetles, each with two glowing organs above their eyes 
and one at the back of their abdomen, scurry across the floor of the 
cave toward you. 


Troglodytes raise fire beetles for food and use their glowing organs to 
illuminate the lair. 

Fire beetles (5): AC4; HD 1 >2; hp 5, 6, 7, 8, 10; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 1 bite; THACO 18; Dmg 2d4; Save as FI; ML 7; 

AL N; XP 15; Treasure nil. 

Location #9. Centipede Kennel 

This room is filled with centipedes as long as your arm. Most 
skitter away up the ceiling, but a total of six dart swiftly toward 
your party. 


The giant centipedes are raised by the troglodytes for food. Only six 
attack the characters; the rest climb the walls and hide in cracks and 
crevices. 

Giant centipedes (6): AC9; HD '/a; hp 3, 3, 3, 4, 4, 4; MV 
60' (20'); #AT 1 bite; THACO 19; Dmg poison; Save as F0; 

ML 7; AL N; XP 6; TVeasure nil. Save vs. poison or become 
ill for ten days; movement is reduced by l h\ victims are so 
weak they cannot perform any action other than walking. 

Location #10. Females Dormitory 

If no alarm has been raised, the PCs automatically gain surprise in 
this room. Read the following description to the players. 


Six troglodytes are huddled together on a straw and animal skin 
pile, either resting or asleep. One opens an eye and blinks at you 
with surprise. 


Troglodytes (6): AC5; HD 2*; hp 4, 8, 10, 11. 13, 14; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 2 daws/1 bite; THACO 18; Dmg Id4/ld4/ 
ld4; Save as F2; ML 9; ALC; XP 30; Treasure (see below). 
Surprise on 1-4. Save vs. poison or be nauseated for a - 2 to 
hit in hand-to-hand combat. 

If the troglodytes from Location #4 have raised an alarm, this room is 
empty. The troglodytes that sleep here will have moved to Location #7. 

The room is dimly lit by six luminous objects fastened to the 
walls at intervals around the room. Along the eastern wall you see a 
stinking mound of straw covered with untanned, rotting animal 
hides. 


The following magical treasures are found in the pile of filth that 
serves as the troglodytes' communal bed: 

* Coin oj Satisfaction In a sealed leather pouch is a single large gold 
coin bearing the likeness of a wizard (on a roll of 1 on ld20 the face is 
recognized as Barglc, an infamous wizard of the Black F^agle Barony). 
The PC who picks up this coin will refuse to part with it. Further, the PC 
will be satisfied with this one bit of treasure, believing it the most valu 
able object in the world, and he will resolutely refuse to accept any other 
treasure so long as he bears the coin. The coin is cursed and can only be 
taken from the owner by force or by the 3rd-lcvel clerical spell remove 
curse , which a local temple will gladly cast for a donation of, say, 200 gp. 

• Rope of Climbing (six 5-foot lengths). Unfortunately, the tribal 
cleric cut up this rope of climbing into 5-foot lengths so that many trogs 
could have a piece. (There are four other pieces in Location #6.) The 
bits of magical rope can be spliced together by any ropemaker for the 
price of a normal length of rope. 

Location #11. Magical Wards 

The room is lit by a single luminous object fastened to the north 
ern wall near the west door. Hanging from the ceiling in front of the 
west door are two curtains, one in front of the other, made from 
strings of giant insect parts. These curtains glow faintly with a pe 
culiar light. 


The curtains arc magically trapped. Any contact with the curtains 
triggers a cause fear spell to be cast upon all creatures in Location #11. 
Since there are two curtains, anyone trying to pass through the cur 
tains must succeed with two saving throws vs. spells. Any PC who 
makes his or her saving throw can pull down a curtain; when a curtain 
is removed, its spell is destroyed. 

Location #12. Cleric's Chamber 

If the troglodytes from Location #4 have raised the alarm, this room is 
empty. The cleric will have moved to Location #7. If no alarm has 
been raised elsewhere in the lair, the DM should read the following to 
the PCs. 

The room is dimly lit by ten luminous objects fastened to the 
walls around the room. Along the west wall is a troglodyte sleeping 
nest. Hundreds of beetle carapaces are fastened to the southern 
wall, much like shelving. 


7 









the AdventuRe 


A strange, bright orange troglodyte is hunched over, peering in 
to a beetle carapace and stirring smoking compounds with a claw. 
He turns at your approach, grabs a 6-foot-long staff from the floor, 
and attacks. He wears a sparkling ring on one hand, a bejeweled 
amulet on his chest, and a belt studded with gems. 


This is the cleric's chamber. The beetle carapaces hold various sa 
cred objects and materials. For example, the cleric is presently mixing 
a compound he believes will protect the tribe against evil fortune. The 
cleric will attempt to defend himself with his hold person and cause light 
wounds spells, then fight to the death. 

Troglodyte cleric (1): AC5; HD 4** # *; hp 23; MV 120' 

(40'); #AT 2 claws/1 bite; THACO 17; Dmg 2d6 {staff of 
striking)! Id4/ld4/ld4; Save as C3 {cursed ring); ML 12; AL 
C; XP 225; Treasure (sec below). Surprise on 1-4. Save vs. 
poison or be nauseated for a - 2 to hit in hand-to-hand com 
bat. Spells: two cause light wounds and one hold person. 

The cleric is using or wearing the following: 

• Staff of Striking (seven charges). This staff inflicts 2d6 points of 
damage and uses one charge per successful hit. (The dragon didn't 
realize this staff was valuable and gave it to the cleric thinking it was 
worthless.) 

• Cursed ring ( - 1 penalty to all saving throws). 

• Amulet of Many Colors. Actually, one color only. The skin of the 
wearer of this amulet immediately turns bright orange and remains 
that color permanently unless a remove curse is cast. The amulet itself is 
worth 300 gp as jewelry, if a buyer can be found who doesn't mind 
turning bright orange after wearing the piece. 

• Girdle of Protection from H^reboars (ten charges). Acts as a scroll of 
protection from lycanthropes , specifically wereboars. It is studded with 
gems worth 400 gp. 

The following magical treasures are found in the beetle carapace 
shelving: 

• Helm of Forgetting. A character who puts on this helm forgets 
everything he or she knows. The effect lasts for ld6 turns after the 
helm is removed. The helm is worth 200 gp to a collector. 

• Boots of Crashing. The wearer of these boots sounds like an ele 
phant waltzing across a hardwood floor. The bad news is that monsters 
can hear this character coming-regardless of doors or walls-240 feet 
away. The good news is that he or she sounds like a giant, and some 
monsters may need to make morale checks (at the DM's discretion) 
when they hear the PC coming. 

• Potion of Sleep. Even tasting this potion causes the user to fall into a 
magical sleep. The affected user cannot be roused by any magical or 
physical means for the duration of effect except by a dispel magic spell. 

Location #13. Gas Trap 

This room is dark, with no signs of recent traffic. The surface of 

a pool glimmers along the south wall. The an feels funny-not just 

a smell, but something that makes your head throb. 


The dragon traps chlorine gas from his breath in potion bottles, then 
places the botdes at the bottom of the pool so that the gas leaks out a 
little at a time. 

Unless a PC holds his breath, he may pass out from the fumes. Any 
one entering this room must make a saving throw vs. poison. If the 
throw is failed, the PC passes out and remains unconscious for one 


turn. He or she cannot be revived by any means. 

A PC who holds his breath in the room does not need to make a 
saving throw; he is unaffected by the gas. 

Location #14. Water Pit 

Most of this chamber is occupied by a steep-sided deep hole. In 
from the south door is a small stone platform, but it slopes down 
toward the hole and is covered with a sheet of water that trickles 
through the bottom of that door. It's only a 5-foot-wide crevasse 
that must be jumped, but the platform looks very wet and slippery. 


Note that if the PCs are coming through the south door, they will not 
be able to jump across the pit and open the west door in one move. 

The PCs may devise many plans to cross this gap and create steady 
footing on the opposite platform. A few guidelines are as follows: 

• Characters who attempt to cross by ropes and spikes without re 
moving chain or plate armor have a 10 percent chance of failure (for 
example, a spike pulls loose, the rope sags or breaks, etc.). 

• Characters wearing a safety rope have no chance of falling to the 
bottom; even if they do fall off the ledge they only take ld4 points of 
damage and may be pulled back up by the safely rope. 

• A door may be removed and used as a bridge if it is secured by 
ropes and spikes. 

• If a thief is with the party, the DM may give hints to the thief if a 
dangerous plan is being considered, since thieves have extensive expe 
rience with ropes and climbing. 

The shaft is 150 feet deep. At the bottom of the shaft is a pool 20 feet 
deep. At the bottom of the pool is a crystal ball that the dragon dropped 
and couldn't figure out how to retrieve. A persistent character is cer 
tain to find this treasure eventually. 

Location #15. Water Room 

If the PCs approach this room from Location #14, the DM should 
read the following. 

Water is seeping through the bottom of the door as if the next 

room were partially flooded. You realize this is where the shaft be 
hind you gets its water. 


Opening this door causes a flood of water to rush out and sweep any 
characters off the stone platform and into the shaft in Location #14. 
Characters who have secured themselves by ropes and spikes or other 
means, however, are not affected. Read the following aloud when the 
PCs enter the room. 

This room is flooded. The water is not deep at the western end; 
you can plainly see several human-sized skeletons-some in 
armor-lying on the bottom of the pool. The eastern end must be 
much deeper because, as you look that way, a large, white, reptil 
ian head thrusts from the surface of the water; opens its foul, reek 
ing jaws; and breathes poisonous vapors at you! 


A cave cambo is a 10-foot-long aquatic albino cave snake. The cave 
cambo is blind and senses its prey by sound vibrations. The breath 
weapon of this monster has a range of 10 feet, affects one target only, 
and is poisonous. The cambo's bite is not poisonous. 

Cave cambo (1): AC8; HD 2*; hp 10; MV 90' (30'); #AT 
bite or breath; THACO 18; Dmg ld6/paralysis; Save as F2; 

ML 7; AL N; XP 25; Treasure (see below). If the poisonous 


8 







the A&ventuce 


breath weapon hits, the victim must make a saving throw vs. 
poison or be paralyzed for ld4 rounds. The cave cambo can 
either breathe or bite; it cannot do both in a single round. 

The cambo attacks in the first round with its breath, then attacks 
with its bite in future rounds. If the target is wearing a water helm and 
using the potion oj water breathing , he is not affected by the breath weap 
on. The water is 4 feet deep. Only one character can attack from dry 
land (the platform in Location #14). Other PCs will have to jump into 
the water to attack; their hand-to-hand attacks are at a - 2 penalty. 

Various plans may be devised to get through this room, including 
using the water helms and potions oj water breathing. 

The skeletons in the water are captives of past dragon raids aban 
doned to the cambo. They have all been stripped of treasure by the 
dragon with the exception of one item, a dagger + 2 that was kept in a 
lead-lined sheath. The skeletons are of halfiing traders taken from the 
roads of the Five Shires; characters who arrange for a proper burial for 
these unfortunate victims deserve a bonus of 100 experience points. 

Location #16. Carrion Crawler Den 

The DM should read the following if the PCs approach this room from 
Location #11. 

The husks of giant beetles cover the floor. The large space in the 
northern end of the room seems empty. A long narrow passage 
leads south toward another door. 


If the PCs approach this room from Location #17, the carrion 
crawler is hiding in the northern end of the room. The DM should 
reverse the following scenario. 

The carrion crawler is hiding in the southern end of the room. A 
successful listen roll reveals faint tapping noises to the south that start 
and stop abruptly, then total silence. The monster waits until a charac 
ter has entered the narrow passage, and then it attacks. The DM 
should roll for surprise and go to combat. 

The passage is so narrow that only one PC at a time can fight in 
hand-to-hand combat with the monster. Missile attacks (including 
thrown oil) made past this character are at a - 4 penalty unless the 
character has been paralyzed and has fallen to the ground. The carri 
on crawler normally makes all eight attacks against the single charac 
ter directly in front of its head. If the PCs retreat to the wide space in 
the northern end of the room, they can all attack the monster in hand- 
to-hand combat. 

Carrion crawler (1): AC7; HD 3 + 1*; hp 18; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT 8 tentacles; THACO 16; Dmg paralysis; Save as 
F2; ML 9; AL N; XP 75; Treasure (sec below). 

If the PCs search the beetle husks, near scattered human bones they 
will find a pouch containing 60 gp. 

Location #17. Deep Shaft 

In the center of this room is a deep, dark shaft with no bottom in 
sight. A narrow ledge runs from platforms at either door around 
the west, south, and east walls. The ledge glistens with moisture 
and seepage, and the footing looks none too secure. 


A gray ooze sits on the ledge at the southern end of the room. It is 
invisible at a casual glance, but if any player mentions gray ooze, his 
or her character happens to notice the ooze sitting on the ledge. When 



9 










the A&ventuRe 


a character moves along the ledge to a square adjacent to the gray 
ooze's position, the DM can place the gray ooze counter on the map, 
roll for surprise, and go to combat. 

A character attempting to make his way along the ledge must roll 
his Dexterity score or lower on ld20 for each square he moves. If the 
throw is failed, the PC falls into the shaft. The drop down the shaft is 
80 feet to a pool of water 30 feet deep. 

If the PCs are roped together, each character on the rope may roll 
his or her Strength score or lower on ld20 to catch a falling character. 
If any one of the characters on the rope succeeds, the character is 
saved from the fall. If all the PCs fail, all characters on the rope fall. If 
the rope has been secured to a spike, the rope saves all the characters 
from falling to the bottom of the pit, but each takes ld6 damage from 
the fall. 

If a thief or dwarf makes the ledge trip first and prepares a spike- 
and-rope handrail, PCs making the crossing who do not have chain 
mail or plate armor do not need to make Dexterity throws; characters 
in chain or plate fall into the pit on a roll of 20. 

Gray ooze (1): AC8; HD 3*; hp 17; MV 10' (3*); #AT 1; 

THACO 17; Dmg 2d8; Save as F2; ML 12; AL N; XP 50; 

TVeasure nil. 

If the area around the deep shaft is searched, a spike is discovered 10 
feet below the height of the ledge. From the spike a thin chain descends 
to the pool in the bottom of the shaft. At the end of the chain is a small 
casket containing 2,000 sp that the dragon has hidden. 

Location #18. Spider Room 

Just ahead the passage is blocked by a mass of spider webs. 

Something wrapped in a cocoon dangles from a web near the 10- 

foot-high roof of the chamber. 


Place the web tile counters as indicated on the DM reference map (see 
page 4). The crab spider clings to the ceiling as indicated and is invisi 
ble until it moves to attack. The DM can roll for surprise and go to 
combat. 

Crab spider (1): HD 2'; hp 10; MV 120' (40'); #AT 1 bite; 
THACO 18; Dmg ld8 + poison; Save as FI; ML 7; AL N; 

XP 25; Treasure nil. Surprises on 1-4. Victim of bite must 
save vs. poison or die in ld4 turns. 

Warn the players that the bite of crab spiders is fatal. (Remind them 
of the neutralize poison scrolls if need be.) 

The child-sized object in the silk cocoon is a naked, comatose, but 
still-alive halfling. The halfling, Boslo Tunelly, a trader, was captured 
by Nefastus on the Coastfollow Road in the Kellshire Dales. He man 
aged to escape the dragon lair but was caught by the spider. A neutralize 
poison scroll can revive Boslo, who will warn the PCs about Location 
#19 ("Poison gas! Hold your breath!"), Location #20 ("A terrible 
creature appears when you enter that room"), and Nefastus's lair 
("He sleeps in the southern end on his pile of treasure, and he's got an 
egg in a nest"). 

Boslo refuses to accompany the group if they are going to face the 
dragon ("No! No! You can't make me go back there!"). He begs the 
PCs to help him get back home instead. 

Boslo (NPC): Halfling 1st level; Strength 9, Intelligence 14, 
Wisdom 7, Dexterity 13, Constitution 16, Charisma 11; A1 
L; AC 9; hp 5. 


If the PCs help Boslo leave Wyrmhaven, he will send the PCs a 200 
gp reward when he reaches home. He will also invite them to enjoy his 
hospitality for a great feast in their honor. Each PC receives an addi 
tional 200 experience points for having done a good deed. 

Location #19. Gas Trap 

This room is dark, with no signs of recent traffic. The surface of 
a pool glimmers in a recess along the west wall. There's a smoky 
haze in the room; a faint, disagreeable odor; and an odd tingling 
on your tongue. 


This is a gas trap; see Location #13 for details. 

Location #20. Spectral Illusion 

This room is dimly lit by a single luminous object lying on the 
floor near the east wall. As you open the door a cloud of mist mate 
rializes and Alls the cave. In the mist forms a sinister spectral figure 
draped in a white shroud, bearing a jeweled scepter in one skeletal 
hand and hurling a glowing green skull at you with the other. The 
skull flies toward you and bursts in a blinding green flash. 


The DM should set out the wraith stand-up and the eight mist 
counters as indicated on the DM reference map while he or she is read 
ing the description above. That more than anything will help fool the 
players into thinking a wraith is really about to attack them. 

This phantasmal illusion forms when anyone opens a door to this 
room. The illusion serves the dual purpose of distracting intruders 
while warning Nefastus, thus giving him time to cast his defensive 
spells. The exploding green skull has no effect, but the DM should 
keep that a secret. He or she can have each player make a saving throw 
vs. spells, mark down the names of the characters who failed, and 
make a big deal of keeping track of passing melee rounds to make the 
players wonder about when the spell effects will kick in. 

Roll for surprise. (If the PCs win surprise, the one closest to the 
dragon lair can make a listen check. If the check is successful, the PC 
hears something bulky moving nearby.) The illusion cannot win sur 
prise. The DM should call for initiative and go to combat. 

The PCs discover the wraith and mist are illusions if anyone makes 
a successful hand-to-hand attack on the wraith or if any PC tries to 
move through the wraith. Missile and magical attacks appear to affect 
the illusion as if it were real. The illusion doesn't disappear, however, 
for three full rounds. 

Location #21. Dragons' Lair 

At the south end of the room you see three green dragons sitting 
on a vast mound of treasure. All three are about 8 feet tall at the 
shoulder, just under medium-sized for green dragons. All appear to 
be spellcasters, for each is murmuring in an arcane tongue and ges 
turing with its claws-preparing to cast spells. 


See the green dragon's tactics on page 2. If he has had time to cast the 
darkness spell, only PCs who have infravision can see into the lair. Oth 
ers see only impenetrable, obviously magical darkness. 

The DM should place the three green dragon tile counters in the 
south end of the lair as indicated on the DM reference map. He or she 
should decide which two are illusions created by the mirror image spell 
and which is really Nefastus. Any successful attack causes the images 
to disappear. Since the PCs have come through an illusion to reach the 


10 








the A&ventuRe 


lair, they should naturally be suspicious of three identical green drag 
ons; the DM should permit each PC to make a saving throw vs. spells 
when he first sees the dragons. If the PC saves, he knows which is the 
real dragon. If he fails, he is convinced there really arc three dragons. 

If reduced to ten or fewer hit points, Ncfastus may offer to surren 
der. This is particularly true if the PCs seem to be unaffected by his 
breath weapon and unimpressed by his illusion. He will offer to serve 
a spellcaster and call him or her "dragonlord," explaining that any 
dragon who willingly surrenders is magically bound to serve a "drag 
onlord'' for a year and a day. 

This is a cunning lie, however. Despite having pledged to serve the 
spellcaster faithfully, Nefastus will cheerfully attack or attempt to es 
cape at the first opportunity. In fact, the only way Nefastus can be 
trusted to surrender is if the PCs can make a credible threat to kill him 
at the first false move. A spellcaster with a magic missile spell or two 
fighters with swords held to his neck would be very believable threats. 

Nefastus, green dragon: HD 6**; hp 42; MV 240' (80'); #AT 
2 claws/1 bite; THACO 14; Dmg Id6/ld6/3d8; Save as F6; ML 
9; AL C; XP 1,400; Treasure (see below). Spells: magic missile 
(3), darkness (1), mirror image (1). May use breath weapon three 
times a day. Breath weapon is a 50* * 40' cloud of chlorine gas 
starting from the dragon's mouth. The breath weapon may be 
used in addition to other attacks. Damage is equal to the drag 
on's current hit points; therefore, damage done to a dragon re 
duces subsequent damage caused by its breath. 

The dragon hoard consists of the following: 1,000 cp; 2,000 sp; 500 
ep; 1,500 gp; 350 pp; 6 gems; 2 pieces of jewelry; 2 daggers + 1\ a sling 
? J\ 2 quivers of arrows + 7; a shield ? /; leather armor ? 2\ a scroll of 


protection vs undead ; a crystal ball; and a ring of telekinesis. 

But Nefastus's greatest treasure is hidden on a rocky shelf near the 
cave roof on the wall above the entrance to the room. There Nefastus 
has placed a single dragon egg, his only offspring, whom he took from 
his mate. The egg is concealed by an invisibility spell, and the ledge 
itself is too small to attract notice. There are only two possible ways the 
PCs might discover the egg: 1) an exceptionally detailed and time- 
consuming search of every inch of floor, wall, and ceiling of the cham 
ber; or 2) the casting of detect magic or detect invisible spells. 

A green dragon's egg is brown and leathery, about 8 inches in diam 
eter, and weighs over 6 pounds. The PCs are unlikely to know any 
thing about dragon eggs and must return the egg to civilization to 
confer with a sage. A sage can tell the PCs that a green dragon's egg 
requires no special care and has a remarkably long gestation period- 
four years! This egg was laid two years ago, so it won't hatch for an 
other two. The sage will offer to purchase the egg for 2,000 gp. If the 
egg is shown to Wortley, he will offer a bonus of 200 gp if the PCs will 
carry it with them in a triumphal parade. 

If the PCs keep the egg, they have two years to seek out someone 
who can teach them how to train a baby dragon-a quest that should 
present endless opportunities for perilous adventures in foreign lands. 

The Journey Back 

If the PCs decide to check out chambers they have not visited, it would 
be wise for them to rest in the dragon's lair and regain their spells. 

Nefastus's head may be returned to Wortley as proof of the success 
of the mission. The head's encumbrance is 500 cr. If Nefastus is sub 
dued and returned to Wortley, he pays an additional 1,000 gp bonus. 



11 









OraqoiVs den Qame 


Adventurers enter a dragon den to kill fierce monsters, steal the drag 
on's treasure, and perhaps to slay the dragon himself. But the Great 
Serpent and his minions are fearsome opponents. Will the heroes 
emerge from the dragon's lair laden with gold? Or will they end up as 
the main course for the dragon's feast? 

When a hero first snatches a treasure, an alarm is sounded and the 
heroes have only nine turns to escape or be trapped inside the dragon 
den, doomed to become food for the dragon. Heroes want to coopera 
tively gather treasures in the time allowed and escape before they are 
slain or before the gates to the dragon den are sealed. 

The dragon and his monsters want to protect their treasures and 
slay the nasty heroes who have invaded the dragon den. The more 
treasure remaining in the lair at the end of the game and the more 
heroes slain, the happier the dragon will be. 

Setting Up the Game 

You will need the following to play the Dragon's Den Game: 

• These rules. 

• The hero cards. 

• Game chits. 

• Two cups (mugs are perfect). 

• Monster and player stand-ups. 

• Two dice, ld6 and Id 10. 

• Any one of the three poster maps. 

Step 1: Select Hero and Dragon Players 

Two to eight people can play Dragon's Den. One person plays the 
dragon, and the others may choose from seven heroes. Each player 
rolls ldlO; the person with the highest roll gets first choice at being the 
dragon or a hero. The player with the second highest roll gets second 
choice, and so on. If no one has chosen to be the dragon, the person 
with the lowest roll must be the dragon. Roll again if die rolls arc tied. 

Each hero player takes the appropriate hero card and stand-up and 
places both in front of him or her. 

The dragon player selects one of the three dragon dens and pulls out 
the appropriate poster map. 

Step 2: Set Up the Heroes 

Play goes in order from largest to smallest hero number (for instance, 
Sam Barleyman, #7, is before Grochek Hammerfist, #1), and each 
player places his or her hero stand-up in the entrance to the dragon 
den. If there is more than one entrance, the player may choose which 
entrance to enter. (Note: Heroes may not enter the Wild Dragon Den 
through Entrance C because that entrance is sealed by the dragon.) 
Only as many heroes may be placed at an entrance as there are spaces 
to hold them. 

Play begins with the hero who has the largest number. 

Step 3: Set Up the Dragon Den 

The dragon player should set up the dragon den using the following 
steps. 

3A: Place the Dragon. Put the 12 dragon chits into a cup and draw 
one chit at random. Look at it, then place it face down in the dragon's 
lair on the map. Do not reveal this chit to the players. Check the Drag 
on Notes below to find out which dragon is indicated by the number 
and to find the information on that dragon's abilities. 

Now draw out two more chits and discard those; nine chits should 
remain in the cup. These chits will be drawn later in the game after the 


alarm has sounded; they are used to count off the turns until the en 
trances arc closed. 

Note: If the players desire a slightly longer game, do not set aside 
the two extra chits; use a total of 11 chits instead of nine to count down 
the turns. 

3B: Place Room Chitt. There are a total of 40 room chits-half are 
monsters, the other half are treasures. Put all the chits into the second 
cup and randomly draw one chit at a time, placing it face down in each 
of the rooms numbered 1-20. (Do not put any chits in rooms num 
bered higher than 20.) Repeat the drawing until there are two chits in 
each room. Do not reveal the numbers of the chits to the players. The 
numbers correspond to Monster Notes and the Monster Treasure Tk- 
ble below. 

Note: Random placement will result in some rooms having two 
treasures and some having two monsters. If the dragon player prefers, 
he or she can separate the room chits into monsters and treasures and 
disperse them so that each room has one monster and treasure. 

3C: Place Dragon Treasure Chits. Place all ten dragon treasure 
chits face down anywhere in the dragon's lair. The numbers on the 
chits correspond to the Dragon Treasure Table below. 

The Rules of the Game 

Hero Players 

You receive a hero card describing your hero's abilities (the reverse 
includes D&D* game statistics for using the hero as a PC) and the 
hero's stand-up for moving on the map. Each hero card contains the 
following information: 

• Hero Number and Name. Heroes are numbered from 1-7. The 
high-numbered hero moves first because larger numbers reflect dex 
terity. Thus, Sam Barleyman (#7), a halfling, moves before Grochek 
Hammerfist (#1), a dwarf. 

• Speed. When moving (advancing or running), add this number 
to the score rolled to determine how many squares your hero may 
move in one tum. 

• Health Score. This score represents your hero's spirit and vitality. 
If reduced to zero, your hero is dead. 

• Special Ability. You must reduce your hero's health score by one 
point every time you use his or her special ability. 

Dragon Player 

Like heroes, monsters and dragons have speed and health scores; 
some monsters and all dragons also have special abilities. You'll find 
the information you need for each monster and dragon in the sections 
on Monster Notes and Dragon Notes below. In addition, for variety's 
sake, the dragon player can compose his or her own lists of monsters to 
replace the ones in these rules. 

Treasure 

Heroes may gain treasure chits from monsters or dragons. Each chit bears 
a number that corresponds to either the Monster Treasure Table or the 
Dragon Treasure Table (below). (The dragon player can create new tables 
with different treasure items as desired.) Hero players keep the treasure 
chits gained as a record of their loot. Treasure is acquired by: 

• "Attacking" a Treasure. Heroes can advance and "attack" a 
treasure just as they do monsters. They automatically pick up the trea 
sure they announce they are taking; there is no need to roll a die. 

• Successfully Attacking the Dragon. Each time a hero successfully 


12 



ORAQon's Oen Qame 


attacks the dragon, he or she takes one chit from the face-down trea 
sure chits in the dragon's lair. 

• Slaying the Dragon. The hero whose attack slays the dragon takes 
all the remaining treasure chits in the dragon's lair. 

Movement 

Movement consists of advancing or running and stopping. Heroes, 
monsters, and the dragon can all advance; only heroes may run. 

Neither monsters nor the dragon may leave their respective rooms 
until the alarm has sounded (sec below). After that, they may advance 
normally like heroes. 

A hero may leave the dragon den at any time by moving to an en 
trance square; however, once a hero has left the dragon den, he or she 
may not return. Remove the stand-up from the map. 

1: Advancing. When advancing, players roll ld6, add their speed 
number to the die roll, and then move their counters up to that many 
squares. (They do not need to move the entire score.) All stand-ups 
may move diagonally, even when entering a room. Monsters and the 
dragon cannot advance through squares occupied by heroes, mon 
sters, or the dragon; heroes, however, may advance through squares 
occupied by other heroes, though they cannot advance through 
squares occupied by monsters or the dragon. Players may choose not 
to advance at all. Doors do not afTect advancing. 

2: Running. Only heroes may run. To do so, the hero players roll 
ld6 and IdlO, add the results, and then add the hero's speed number 
for a total. Their stand-ups may run that many squares. Heroes may 
run diagonally, but they cannot run through squares occupied by he 
roes, monsters, or the dragon. Doors do not afTect running. 

3: Stopping. When a hero advances or runs into any room that con 
tains a face-down chit, the hero's movement ends on the first square 
upon entering that room. The room chits are revealed (see below), 
and the hero has the option of attacking if the dragon player places a 
monster or a treasure in an adjacent or a diagonal square. 

Attacking 

Heroes and monsters must choose their targets before they attack, and 
they may make only one attack per turn. Heroes and monsters must 
move to a square that is adjacent or diagonal to the target they wish to 
attack. Heroes may attack monsters and the dragon; monsters may 
attack heroes; and the dragon may use his special ability against the 
heroes. 

Tb attack, a player rolls ld6. If the score is equal to or less than the 
attacking player's current health score, the attack is a success. Sub 
tract a health point from the target's health score, and keep track of 
losses on a scrap piece of paper. 

Note: In some instances, the attack roll will be an automatic suc 
cess, particularly early in the game when the heroes, a few of the mon 
sters, and the dragon are at full health score points. 

A hero, monster, or dragon that reaches zero health points is dead. 
If a hero is slain, any treasures he or she has gathered are lost to the 
heroes; set the treasure chits aside, taking care not to mix them with 
other players' chits or with the chits on the map. 

The Alarm 

An alarm sounds in the dragon's lair when the first treasure chit is 
garnered by a hero. Once the alarm has sounded, monsters and the 
dragon may advance outside their respective rooms. During the drag 
on player's turn, the dragon player draws a chit from the dragon cup 
to signify the countdown to the end of the game. When the last dragon 
chit is drawn from the cup, the gates to all entrances slam shut. Heroes 


still inside the dragon den are trapped and taken prisoner, certain to 
face a terrible doom. The game ends immediately. 

Special Abilities 

Both heroes and dragons have special abilities. Each hero's special 
ability is listed on his or her hero card. Each dragon's special ability is 
given in the Dragon Notes (below). See those items for detailed infor 
mation on using special abilities. 

The Order of Play 

Each player moves in turn, starting with the player who has the largest 
hero number (for instance, Sam Barley man is #7, and if he is used, his 
hero player goes first). Play goes on in sequence, from largest to small 
est hero number, and then the dragon player takes his or her turn. 
Play begins again with a new turn. 

Hero Players' Turn 

During his or her turn, a hero player may: 

1: Advance and attack. The player rolls Id6, adds the hero's speed 
number to the die roll, and moves the counter up to that many 
squares. The hero must stop on the first square upon entering a room 
that has face-down chits in it. The dragon player reveals the chits (see 
below) and places the appropriate monster or dragon counter in the 
room (or reveals the treasure if it is a treasure chit). If the monster or 
dragon is placed in an adjacent or diagonal square to the hero, the 
hero may attack 

If the dragon player places the stand-up away from the hero, the 
hero will have to wait until the following turn before he or she can 
advance again and attack. 

Attacking is resolved as noted above. The player rolls ld6; if the roll 
is equal to or less than the hero's current health score, the attack suc 
ceeds. The monster or dragon loses a health point. 

2: Run. A hero may choose to run if necessary. (See Movement 
above.) If a hero runs into a room with face-down chits, his or her 
movement ends immediately; the chits are revealed (see below). 

Dragon Player's Turn 

After all the heroes have taken their turns, the dragon player takes his 
or her turn and may: 

1: Draw a dragon chit from the dragon cup. If the alarm has sound 
ed (see above), draw one dragon chit and set it aside When the last 
dragon chit has been drawn, the game ends. 

2: Move all monsters. Any monsters may advance; monsters ad 
vance just like heroes (see above). They may not leave their rooms, 
however, until the alarm has sounded, which occurs when the first 
piece of treasure is gained. Once the alarm has sounded, monsters 
may move freely from room to room. Any treasure in a room with a 
monster remains in that room. The dragon player may move the mon 
sters in any order. 

3: Have monsters attack heroes. When all monsters have advanced, 
they may attack any heroes in squares adjacent or diagonal to the 
monsters. The dragon player resolves these attacks in any order. 

4: Move the dragon. The dragon may advance just like the heroes 
(sec above). The dragon may not leave its lair, however, until the 
alarm has sounded. Once the alarm has sounded, he may move freely 
from room to room. The dragon, unlike the monsters, carries his trea 
sure with him; for convenience, leave the dragon treasure chits lying 
face down in the dragon's lair. 


13 



ORaqon's Oen Qame 


5: Have the dragon attack. The dragon attacks by using his breath 
weapon as indicated in the Dragon Notes (see below). All heroes in the 
same room or lair as the dragon are affected by the dragon's breath, 
regardless of where they may be in a room. 


the dragon's lair, add one dragon happiness point. (Such chits held by 
slain or trapped heroes are counted as still remaining in the dragon's 
possession.) Total your happiness points and check the Dragon's Vic 
tory Chan for the result. 


Revealing Chits 

If a hero's stand-up advances or runs into a chamber with face-down 
chits, the hero must stop and his or her movement is over for that turn. 
The dragon player turns over the chits. 

• If it is a treasure chit , the dragon player consults the appropriate 
treasure table for the type and quantity of treasure. The dragon player 
tells the hero what the results are. 

• If it is a monster chit, the dragon player consults the Monster 
Notes and reads aloud the entry. The dragon player places the stand- 
up anywhere in the room except on squares occupied by heroes. If 
there is no free space in the room, the dragon player may move hero 
stand-ups to squares outside the room up to two squares away. 

• If it is a dragon chit, the dragon player consults the Dragon Notes 
and reads aloud the correct entry. The dragon player puts the counter 
in the lair in any square not occupied by a hero. 


Ending the Game 

When the last chit is drawn from the dragon cup during the dragon 
player's turn, the game ends immediately. The hero players and the 
dragon player total their scores and consult the victory charts (below). 
Any heroes left inside the dragon den when the gates slam shut are 
dead and out of the game. 


Heroes' Victory 

The heroes who escape the dragon den should total the value of all the 
treasure taken from the dragon den. For each hero slain or trapped 
inside the dragon den, subtract 1,000 gp for the cost of raising a monu 
ment to the hero's memory in his or her hometown. The final figure is 
the heroes' haul; look on the Heroes' Victory Chart for the result. 


Heroes' Victory Chart 


Dragon slain! 

10,000+ gp 

5,000-9,999 gp 

2,000-4,999 gp 

500-1,999 gp 

250-499 gp 
0-249 gp 

Heroes slain! 


A great triumph! The Duke invites you all to a 
hero's banquet. 

A fabulous success! Songs of your brave deeds are 
sung throughout the land. 

A notable feat! Your names are known through 
out Karameikos. 

Quite a haul. Old acquaintances and relatives ap 
pear, hoping to borrow money from you. 

Not bad. You pay all your expenses and have 
something left over for a victory celebration. 
Nothing to brag about. Better luck next time. 
Humiliating disaster. Serving maids in taverns 
snicker behind your backs when you order. 
Dragon food! If you were all slain or trapped in 
side the dragon den, your calorics go into making 
the great beast even more terrible. 


Dragon Victory 

For each hero slain or trapped inside the dragon den, add one dragon 
happiness point. For each dragon treasure chit still remaining inside 


Dragon's Victory Chart 

Dragon rules! 

Huzzah! If all heroes arc slain and/or trapped in 
side the lair at the end of the game, princes, 
knights, and wizards throughout the land quake 
when your name is spoken. 

15 + points 

That'll teach them a lesson! Daunted by your 
fierceness, adventurers avoid your lair. 

10-14 points 

A fearsome monster still . . . but a little nervous. 
You saved most of your trove, but you worry about 
other heroes yet to come. 

5-9 points 

Fie on manthings! You sit upon your now-tiny trea 
sure trove and grumble about heroes. 

0-4 points 

Shame and desolation. Your monstrous minions 
turn upon you and drive you from the lair. 

Dragon slain! 

Total defeat! Your severed head is paraded 
throughout the great cities of the land. 


Dragon Notes 

1) Aged Black Dragon 

Health Score: 24 Speed: 10 

Special Ability: Greater Acid Breath. Each hero in the same room as the 
dragon loses 2 health points unless he rolls his current health score or 
lower on ld6, in which case he loses 1 health point only. Costs 1 health 
point to use. 

2) Adult Black Dragon 

Health Score: 20 Speed: 8 

Special Ability: Greater Acid Breath. Each hero in the same room as the 
dragon loses 2 health points unless he rolls his current health score or 
lower on ld6, in which case he loses 1 health point only. Costs 1 health 
point to use. 

3) Young Black Dragon 

Health Score: 18 Speed: 6 

Special Ability: Lesser Acid Breath. Each hero in the same room as the 
dragon loses 1 health point. Costs 1 health point to use. 

4) Yearling Black Dragon 

Health Score: 16 Speed: 4 

Special Ability: Lesser Acid Breath. Each hero in the same room as the 
dragon loses 1 health point. Costs 1 health point to use. 

5) Aged Green Dragon 

Health Score: 24 Speed: 10 

Special Ability: Greater Chlorine Gas Breath. Each hero in the same room 
as the dragon loses 2 health points unless he rolls his current health 
score or lower on ld6, in which case he loses 1 health point only. Costs 
1 health point to use. 

6) Adult Green Dragon 

Health Score: 20 Speed: 8 

Special Ability: Greater Chlorine Gas Breath. Each hero in the same room 
as the dragon loses 2 health points unless he rolls his current health 


14 





OraqoiVs 6en Qame 


score or lower on ld6, in which case he loses 1 health point only. Costs 
1 health point to use. 

7) Young Green Dragon 

Health Score: 18 Speed: 6 

Special Ability: Lesser Chlorine Gas Breath. Each hero in the same room 
as the dragon loses 1 health point. Costs 1 health point to use. 

8) Yearling Green Dragon 

Health Score: 16 Speed: 4 

Special Ability: Lesser Chlorine Gas Breath. Each hero in the same room 
as the dragon loses 1 health point. Costs 1 health point to use. 

9) Aged Red Dragon 

Health Score: 24 Speed: 10 

Special Ability: Greater Fire Breath. Each hero in the same room as the 
dragon loses 2 health points unless he rolls his current health score or 
lower on ld6, in which case he loses 1 health point only. Costs 1 health 
point to use. 

10) Adult Red Dragon 

Health Score: 20 Speed: 8 

Special Ability: Greater Fire Breath. Each hero in the same room as the 
dragon loses 2 health points unless he rolls his current health score or 
lower on ld6, in which case he loses I health point only. Costs 1 health 
point to use. 

11) Young Red Dragon 

Health Score: 18 Speed: 6 

Special Ability: Lesser Fire Breath. Each hero in the same room as the 
dragon loses 1 health point. Costs 1 health point to use. 

12) Yearling Red Dragon 

Health Score: 16 Speed: 4 

Special Ability: Lesser Fire Breath. Each hero in the same room as the 
dragon loses 1 health point. Costs 1 health point to use. 


Dragon Treasure 

As noted above, the dragon player should feel free to modify the Drag 
on TVeasure Thble or to create a new table for variety in play. 


Dragon 

Treasure Table 


1 

Silver ring 

200 gp 

2 

Amber amulet 

300 gp 

3 

Silver armband 

300 gp 

4 

Gem-studded brooch 

500 gp 

5 

Pearl necklace 

500 gp 

6 

Jade statuette 

500 gp 

7 

Diamond tiara 

1,000 gp 

8 

Sack of diamonds 

1,500 gp 

9 

Jeweled scepter 

1,750 gp 

10 

Crown of glory 

2,000 gp 


Monster Notes 

For variety's sake, the dragon player can create a new list of monsters 
or replace any on the following list. 

1) Fire Beetle 
Health Score: 1 


2) Giant Rat 

Health Score: I Speed: 4 

3) Goblin 

Health Score: 1 Speed: 6 

4) Giant Racer Snake 

Health Score: 1 Speed: 2 

5) Lizard Man 

Health Score: 2 Speed: 1 

6) Troglodyte 

Health Score: 2 Speed: 2 

7) Giant Centipede 

Health Score: 2 Speed: 3 

8) Giant Crab Spider 

Health Score: 2 Speed: 4 

9) Troglodyte Warrior 

Health Score: 3 Speed: 2 

10) Harpy 

Health Score: 3 Speed: 6 

11) Carrion Crawler 

Health Score: 4 Speed: 4 

Special Ability: Paralysis May use instead of an attack. A hero in a 
square next to the carrion crawler may not advance, run, or attack for 
one turn after being paralyzed. Costs 1 health point to use. 

12) Grizzly Bear 

Health Score: 4 Speed: 2 

13) Gelatinous Cube 

Health Score: 6 Speed: 1 

14) Lizard Man Warrior 

Health Score: 5 Speed: 2 

15) Troll 

Health Score: 4 Speed: 1 

Special Ability: Regenerate. May use instead of an attack. Regains 3 
health points; cannot increase to more than 4 health points. Costs 1 
health point to use. 


16) Shadow 

Health Score: 5 Speed: 3 

17) Wererat 

Health Score: 6 Speed: 4 

18) Hill Giant 

Health Score: 8 Speed: 2 

19) Lizard Man Chieftain 

Health Score: 8 Speed: 3 

20) Wraith 

Health Score: 8 Speed: 2 


Special Ability: Cause Wbunds. May use instead of an attack. Any hero, 
monster, or dragon in a square next to the wraith loses 2 health points. 
Costs 1 health point to use. 

Monster Treasure 

As noted above, the dragon player should feel free to modify the Mon 
ster Treasure Table or to create a new table for variety in play. 


Speed: 1 


15 




£>RAQon's Oen Cjame 


Monster Treasure Table 

1 Small bag of coins 

200 gp 

2 

Small bag of coins 

300 gp 

3 

Small bag of coins 

400 gp 

4 

Small bag of coins 

500 gp 

5 

Small gemstone 

500 gp 

6 

Large sack of coins 

500 gp 

7 

Large sack of coins 

1,000 gp 

8 

Large sack of coins 

1,500 gp 

9 

Jade amulet 

1,750 gp 

10 

Small bag of gemstones 

2,000 gp 

11-20 

Blank 

Ogp 


Hero Notes 



Hero #1: 

Grochek Hammerfist, Dwarf 
Health Score: 14 Speed: 1 

Special Ability: Dragonbane Rune 
Axe. May use instead of an attack. 
A dragon in a square adjacent or 
diagonal to Grochek loses ld6 
health points. Monsters arc not af 
fected. Counts as a successful at 
tack. Costs 1 health point to use. 


Hero #4: 

Ren Wardo, Magic-User 
Health Score: 7 Speed: 4 

Special Ability: Shield Spell If de 
sired, if Ren is successfully at 
tacked, roll ld6. If the result is 
1-5, Ren does not lose any health 
points from that attack. If the re 
sult is a 6, the spell fails. Ren loses 
the health points from the attack 
and from casting the spell. Costs 1 
health point to use. 

Special Ability: Magic Missile Spell. May use instead of an attack. A 
monster or dragon within six squares of Ren loses ld6 health points. 
Counts as a successful attack. Can be used a maximum of four times. 


Hero #5: 

Talina, Thief 

Health Score: 8 Speed: 3 

Special Ability: Clever Trickster. 
May use instead of an attack. A 
monster within six squares of Ta 
lina is tricked into giving her its 
treasure. A dragon within six 
squares is tricked into giving her 
two treasures. (Select randomly.) 
Costs 1 health point to use. 


Costs 1 health point to use. 





Hero #2: 

Jared O'loria, Fighter 
Health Score: 12 Speed: I 

Special Ability: Deathblow. May 
use instead of an attack. A mon 
ster or dragon in a square adjacent 
or diagonal to Jared loses 4 health 
points. Can be used a maximum 
of four times. Counts as a success 
ful attack. Costs 1 health point to 
use. 



Hero #3: 

Reverend Elin, Cleric 
Health Score: 10 Speed: 2 

Special Ability: Heal Spell. May use 
instead of an attack. Elin must be 
in a square next to the hero she 
heals; she may always heal herself 
for 2 health points. The hero may 
regain 2 health points; he never 
gains health points above his 
health score. Costs 1 health point 
to use. 


Special Ability: Came Wbunds Spell. May use instead of an attack. A mon 
ster or dragon in a square adjacent or diagonal to Elin loses 2 health 
points. Counts as a successful attack. Costs I health point to use. 


Hero #6: 

Cara Windwright, Elf 
Health Score: 8 Speed: 3 

Special Ability: Haste Spell May use 
instead of an attack. If desired, 
when Cara advances or runs, roll 
ld6. A result of 1-5 adds that many 
extra spaces to the movement. A re 
sult of 6 indicates the spell fails; 
Cara may not move extra spaces 
that turn, and the spell still costs her. 
Costs 1 health point to use. 

Special Ability: Charm Spell. May use instead of an attack. A monster 
or dragon in a square next to Cara is charmed into giving her one trea 
sure. The monster or dragon is unharmed. Costs 1 health point to use. 

Hero #7: 

Sam Barleyman, Halfling 
Health Score: 8 Speed: 2 

Special Ability: Sneak. May use in 
stead of an attack. This ability has 
no effect on monsters. If Sam is in 
a square adjacent or diagonal to 
the dragon, it allows him to take 
one treasure chit from the drag 
on's hoard. Dragon breath has no 
effect on Sam for this dragon turn 
only as Sam is cowering under the 
great beast's bulk. Costs 1 health point to use. 




16 











Rules Summary 


Heroes move first, from largest to smallest hero number. Each he 
ro can either: 

1. Advance (roll ld6, add speed number, and move that many 
squares) and/or attack (roll ld6 equal to or less than the hero's cur 
rent health score to successfully attack a monster or dragon adjacent 
to the hero). 

2. Run (roll ld6 and ldlO, add speed number, and move that 
many squares). 

If a hero enters a room with a face-down chit in it, he or she must 
stop immediately. The dragon player turns over the chit(s) and re 
veals the monster or treasure; if the hero is next to a chit, he or she 
may attack the monster or pick up the treasure. Otherwise, the hero's 
turn is over. 


1073XXX0501 


The dragon player goes after all the heroes have moved and at 
tacked. The dragon player: 

1. Draws a dragon chit from the cup if the alarm has sounded. 

2. Moves all monsters (roll ld6, add speed number, and move that 
many squares). Note: Monsters may not move out of a room until 
after the alarm has sounded. 

3. Attacks heroes who are in squares adjacent to monsters (roll ld6 
equal to or less than the monster's current health score to successfully 
attack a hero). 

4. Moves the dragon (roll ld6, add speed number, and move that 
many squares). Note: The dragon may not move out of his lair until 
after the alarm has sounded. 

5. Attacks with the dragon (the dragon uses its breath weapon as 
noted under "Dragon Notes" in the rules). 


*1992 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


Hero #1: Grochek Hammerfist, 
Dwarf 


Health Score: 14 Speed: 1 

Special Ability: Dragonbane Rune Axe. May use 
instead of an attack. A dragon in a square ad 
jacent or diagonal to Grochek loses ld6 health 
points. Monsters are not affected. Counts as a 
successful attack. Costs 1 health point to use. 




PC #1: Grochek Hammerfist, Dwarf 


Level: 

2 

Alignment: 

N 

Strength: 

14 

Intelligence: 

11 

Wisdom: 

10 

Dexterity: 

13 

Constitution: 

12 

Charisma: 

9 

Armor Class: 

2 

Hit Points: 

14 

Money: 

8 gP 

XP: 

3,000 


Equipment: Chain mail + 1, shield, short sword, crossbow and 30 
quarrels, 3 flasks of oil, a 10-foot pole, a 50-foot rope, backpack, 
small sack, wineskin. 


*1992 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



Hero #2: Jared O'loria, Fighter 


Health Score: 12 Speed: 1 

Special Ability: Deathblow. May use instead of 
an attack. A monster or dragon in a square ad 
jacent or diagonal to Jared loses 4 health 
points. Can be used a maximum of four times. 
Counts as a successful attack. Costs 1 health 
point to use. 




PC #2: Jared O'loria, Fighter 


Level: 

2 

Alignment: 

N 

Strength: 

16 

Intelligence: 

7 

Wisdom: 

8 

Dexterity: 

13 

Constitution: 

16 

Charisma: 

10 

Armor Class: 

1 

Hit Points: 

14 

Money: 

4 gP 

XP: 

3,000 


Equipment: Plate mail, shield, long sword, crossbow and 20 quarrels, 
6 torches, tinderbox, a 50-foot rope, backpack, small sack. 


"1992 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


Hero #3: Reverend Elin, Cleric 


Health Score: 10 Speed: 2 

Special Ability: Heal Spell. May use instead of 
an attack. Elin must be in a square adjacent or 
diagonal to the hero she heals; she may always 
heal herself for 2 health points. The hero may 
regain 2 health points; he never gains health 
points above his health score. Costs 1 health 
point to use. 

Special Ability: Cause Wounds Spell. May use in 
stead of an attack. A monster or dragon in a 
square adjacent or diagonal to Elin loses 2 
health points. Counts as a successful attack. 
Costs 1 health point to use. 





PC #3: Reverend Elin, Cleric 


Level: 

3 

Alignment: 

L 

Strength: 

12 

Intelligence: 

9 

Wisdom: 

18 

Dexterity: 

9 

Constitution: 

13 

Charisma: 

9 

Armor Class: 

3 

Hit Points: 

12 

Money: 

3 RP 

XP: 

3,000 


Equipment: Chain mail, shield + /, mace, sling, holy symbol, 6 torch 
es, backpack, small sack, lantern, 5 flasks of oil, mirror, waterskin, 
wolfsbane, tinderbox. 

Spells known: Any two lst-level clerical spells. 


*1992 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 



Hero #4: Ren Wardo, 
Magic-User 

Health Score: 1 



Speed: 4 

Special Ability: Shield Spell. If desired, if Ren is 
successfully attacked, roll ld6. If the result is 
1-5, Ren does not lose any health points 
that attack. If the result is a 6, the spell fails. 

Ren loses the health points from the attack and 
from casting the spell. Costs 1 health point to 
use. 

Special Ability: Magic Missile Spell. May use in 
stead of an attack. A monster or dragon within 
six squares of Ren loses ld6 health points. Can be used a maximum 
of four times. Counts as a successful attack. Costs 1 health point to 


use. 











PC #4: Ren Wardo, Magic-User 


Level: 

2 

Alignment: 

N 

Strength: 

11 

Intelligence: 

18 

Wisdom: 

12 

Dexterity: 

16 

Constitution: 

15 

Charisma: 

14 

Armor Class: 

7 

Hit Points: 

7 

Money: 

20 gp 

XP: 

3,000 


Equipment: Dagger, 6 torches, 2 50-foot ropes, backpack, small sack, 
lantern, 5 flasks of oil. 

Spells known: Any two lst-level magic-user spells. 

Spells in spellbook: Read magic, sleep, shield, magic missile, charm person, 
read languages. 


c 1992 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


Hero #5: Talina, Thief 


Health Score: 8 Speed: 3 

Special Ability: Clever Trickster. May use instead 
of an attack. A monster within six squares of 
Talina is tricked into giving her its treasure. A 
dragon within six squares is tricked into giving 
her two treasures. (Select randomly.) Costs 1 
health point to use. 




PC #5: Talina, Thief 


Level: 

3 

Strength: 

9 

Wisdom: 

10 

Constitution: 

13 

Armor Class: 

3 

Money: 

9 gP 


Alignment: 

N 

Intelligence: 

11 

Dexterity: 

18 

Charisma: 

13 

Hit Points: 

11 

XP: 

3,000 


Equipment: Leather armor, ring of protection +1 , short sword, short 
bow and 20 arrows, thiefs tools, 6 torches, backpack, 3 small sacks, 
wineskin, 10 spikes and hammer, 2 50-foot ropes, tinderbox. 


'1992 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


Hero #6: Cara Windwright, Elf 


Health Score: 8 Speed: 3 

Special Ability: Haste Spell. May use instead of 
an attack. If desired, when Cara advances or 
runs, roll ld6. A result of 1-5 adds that many 
extra spaces to the movement. A result of 6 in 
dicates the spell fails; Cara may not move ex 
tra spaces that turn, and the spell still costs her. 
Costs 1 health point to use. 

Special Ability: Charm Spell. May use instead of 
an attack. A monster or dragon in a square ad 
jacent or diagonal to Cara is charmed into giv 
ing her one treasure. The monster or dragon is 
unharmed. Costs 1 health point to use. 




PC #6: Cara Windwright, Elf 


Level: 

1 

Alignment: 

L 

Strength: 

18 

Intelligence: 

15 

Wisdom: 

11 

Dexterity: 

14 

Constitution: 

16 

Charisma: 

8 

Armor Class: 

3 

Hit Points: 

6 

Money: 

7 gP 

XP: 

3,000 


Equipment: Chain mail, shield, long sword, long bow and 20 arrows, 
6 torches, backpack, 2 small sacks, waterskin, a 50-foot rope, tinder- 
box. 

Spells known: Any one lst-level magic-user spell. 

Spells in spellbook: Read magic, sleep, magic missile, protection from evil, 
light, darkness. 


*'1992 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


Hero #7: Sam Barleyman 
Halfling 


Health Score: 8 Speed: 2 

Special Ability: Sneak. May use instead of an 
attack. This ability has no effect on monsters. 
If Sam is in a square adjacent or diagonal to 
the dragon, it allows him to take one treasure 
chit from the dragon's hoard. Dragon breath 
has no effect on Sam for this dragon turn only 
as Sam is cowering under the great beast's 
bulk. Costs 1 health point to use. 





PC #7: Sam Barleyman, Halfling 


Level: 

2 

Alignment: 

N 

Strength: 

16 

Intelligence: 

9 

Wisdom: 

9 

Dexterity: 

9 

Constitution: 

14 

Charisma: 

8 

Armor Class: 

4 

Hit Points: 

10 

Money: 

3 gP 

XP: 

3,000 


Equipment: Chain mail, shield, short sword, short bow and 20 ar 
rows, 10 silver arrows, 6 torches, backpack, 2 small sacks, wineskin, a 
50-foot rope, tinderbox, 2 potions of healing. 


c 1992 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 



KmmiM 


\ 


\ 


Read This Sheet First! 


Inside are three adventures for the DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS(r) Game . . . and a fantasy action- 
adventure game, too! 


The Dragon s Den Adventure Pack gives you three chal 
lenging DUNGEONS & DRAGONS adventures, 
each featuring the most feared of monsters-a dragon! 
The game booklets, detailed full-color maps, and 
stand-up counters are designed to make these three ad 
ventures the most exciting, most challenging adven 
tures you've ever played. 

Just in case the prospect of all that excitement isn't 
quite enough, we have also included the rules for a 
minigame. The Dragon's Den Game lets you use the 
beautiful maps, stand-ups, and dice to play a 
boardgame-style fantasy adventure game in only an 
hour or so. The Dragon's Den Game features heroes 
(characters who have special abilities), fearsome mon 
sters, and treasure troves, just like the D&D(r) game. Its 
easy-to-learn and fast-moving rules let you show 
friends, neighbors, and relatives what it's like to play a 
simpler version of the DUNGEONS 8c DRAGONS 
game. You'll love it! 



Content* 

In your Dragon's Den Adventure Pack you'll find the fol 
lowing components: 

• Three 16-page booklets (Wild Dragon Den. 
Wyrmhaven, and League of the Red Serpent). 

• A handout for your friends who will be running 
characters in the adventures. (This handout is on the 
reverse of this sheet.) 

• Three full-color poster maps, one for each adven 
ture. 

• Three sheets of die-cut stand-up monster and 
character counters (six dozen in all!). 

• One sheet of die-cut cards for the Dragon's Den 
Game. 

• Three sheets of die-cut cardboard chits for play 
ing the Dragon's Den Game and for dressing up the 
poster maps as you play. 

• A six-sided die and a ten-sided die for playing the 
Dragon's Den Game. 


The DUNGEONS & DRAGONS Game Adventures 

To use any of the three separate D&D game adven 
tures, read the corresponding booklet for the adven 
ture while studying the full-color poster map that goes 
with that adventure. Give the "Wanted-Bold Adven 
turers!" handout (the reverse of this page) to your 
players to introduce them to the adventures, then read 
to them the section called "The Briefing," found in the 
beginning of each adventure booklet. The players will 
thus be prepared for the dangers involved in their per 
ilous quest. 

If your players want to use ready-to-play characters 
rather than create their own, they can use the PCs on 
the backs of the hero cards. The players can copy the 
necessary information onto character sheets, or they 
can use the cards as they are. 

Assemble the stand-ups for characters and monsters 
as needed for each adventure. Simply detach the 
counter from the sheet. Then fold it along the score 
lines, with the color monster outside, to form an "A"- 
shaped stand-up counter. Lock the tab in the slot. For 
added durability you may want to glue or tape the tab 
into the slot. 

Use the hollow space beneath the cardboard insert in 
the box to store your counters. 


The Dragon's Den Game 

You'll find all the rules necessary to play the Dragon's 
Den Game in the second adventure booklet, 
tofyrmhaven. To play the Dragon's Den Game, you must 
assemble the seven stand-up hero counters and the fol 
lowing monsters: 1. Fire Beetle, 2. Giant Rat, 3. Gob 
lin, 4. Giant Racer Snake, 5. Lizard Man, 6. 
Troglodyte, 7. Giant Centipede, 8. Giant Crab Spider, 
9. Troglodyte Warrior, 10. Harpy, 11. Carrion Crawl 
er, 12. Grizzly Bear, 13. Gelatinous Cube, 14. Lizard 
Man Warrior, 15. Troll, 16. Shadow, 17. Wererat, 
18. Hill Giant, 19. Lizard Man Chieftain, and, finally, 
20. Wraith. 

Read the Dragon's Den Game rules and follow the 
directions there to begin playing the game. You and 
your players will have a terrific time! 



ismu MliraMKMMF 


#" -WF-ii "< v h 7Mvmw -x,•. 































Wanted-Bold Adventurers! 


Rid the Wildlands of Fierce Wyrms! 

Welcome Noble and Freeman, Native and Foreigner! 

Rich Reward! 

(Some Experience Preferred.) 

Inquire Bailiff Wortley, Alderman of Knacker Knob 


Wortley, Alderman of Knacker Knob, seek to 
be granted the noble title of "March Lord of Greetland" 
from the ruler of Greetland, King Ganyard II. With the 
tide comes the rulership of the undeveloped lands north 
and west of Knacker Knob. 

King Ganyard has at last agreed to my pleas, but he 
has placed conditions on the grant. Before His Majesty 
will confer the title, I must remove three obstacles to the 
setdement of the wildlands-and all three obstacles are 
dragons. 

The first, a black dragon, has its den in the swamps 
west of Knacker Knob. The second, a green dragon, 
dwells in caves in the Forest of Dallow. The third, a red 
dragon, is believed to have its lair in the hills south of the 
Iron River. (Scouting reports offer contradictory evi 
dence on the age of these dragons, but scales collected 
from the black and green suggest they are immature, no 
more than 20-30 years old, and therefore far less fear 
some than the Great Wyrms of the Peaks of Hoffam.) 

You may ask, "Why would adventurers of modest ex 


perience contemplate hunting dragons ?" I offer excellent 
terms in recompense. For each dragon you slay, you will 
receive 3,000 gold pieces and a grant of land in the soon- 
to-be-settled wildlands (subject to my installation as 
March Lord of Greetland, of course). Further, if a dragon 
is subdued and produced for a triumphal parade through 
the capital city of Yarrow, I offer an additional bonus of 
1,000 gold pieces. (Note: Presentation of the dragon's 
severed head or the dragon itself is required as evidence of 
your success. Anything less I will not accept.) 

In addition, the slayers of dragons who menace the 
people of Greetland are legally entitled to the salvage of 
the beasts' treasure troves. Even young dragons may 
have substantial hoards of coins, magical wonders, and 
other precious goods. Further, protecting the people 
from the predations of these terrible wyrms is a brave 
and honorable quest and is certain to bring both person 
al satisfaction and public recognition to any adventurer 
courageous enough to confront one of these fierce drag 
ons in its own lair. 


' l '°" 

Kellshire ) 

Dales ' . *y* 

RoUslon* / * " * * m. +¦ 

> " TU Great Swamp 

- : v-c 






Gulf of Holland 


Legend 

• Greetland An independent nation ruled by King 
Ganyard II. 

• Kellshire Dales: A hilly region of Waylay, an inde 
pendent nation populated mosdy by halflings. 

• Ms/ March: The border province ruled by Draven 
of Mylemain, the Black Prince. Draven is a cousin of 
King Ganyard II. 

• Knacker Knob: A fortified community of 5,000, 
populated mostly by refugees who have fled the harsh 
tyranny of the Black Prince. The alderman. Bailiff 
Wortley, seeks a noble title to secure the lands of 
Knacker Knob and the surrounding area from the am 
bitions of March Lord Draven of Mylemain, the so- 
called Black Prince and ruler of the West March. 

• Castle Kane: A gloomy, oppressed farming com 


munity of 10,000 inhabitants under the harsh rule of 
the Black Prince. 

• The Great Swamp. Foul fenlands with stagnant wa 
ters and blighted forests. 

• Forest of Dallow: Unexplored dense lowland for 
ests. 

• Iron River: A major river rising in the highland 
and draining into the Gulf of Halland. 

• Seatstone Highlands: Unexplored, rocky, rolling 
limestone highlands, partially forested. 

• Wild Dragon Den: Confirmed site of a black dragon 
den. 

• Wyrmhaven Confirmed site of a green dragon den. 

• League of the Red Serpent: Suspected site of a red 
dragon den. 




















* * V A 


, 

'' ¦.'¦'r r * "¦ 

9K5HE 




} *,-*? *• *#£# , V 

, *'-'•"" ¦* 


S*M-. 

ii-w: 


¥*" " f* 


¦ _ 

_. , 


' T- . J.' . ¦. 

- -vx _ 


v $!&¦*:* %*. 

A 

¦ 


• T .y .. ¦ ; r ,. 

,- -. y, ... 4> v 

£ ", vY. 

y*.A •', - i ;.; 

* > T • V -r> , , . . 




- 


v. imFfll 
}. * *;#*: 


" '• • •¦• *5 ' 

1L T 






j 

' • ¦ 

'¦¦ : 

LI 

;:r 

L 


? v*-*' " 

1 A,', , 

- A **• 


' 1 O 

V I 


•••Mk 1 f-.'j! 

S \' +- A ; V-,\ 


§& 


".* 

A ". 

&5#-* 




**?*§5(r). 


** p* 


: A :• -• " * *.* 

.a as. 

W k 


'"¦ • - i . 

* "'M 

. • ' L* 


£***£ 


- - ..• ? 


1 

•• 




r . 

Wfl! - - m• ¦*. 


^B ft 

*429*. 

W B 

* A "t -v 

Ml ¦ *L 

'fc-J 

UH ' -' 


OT3XXJCO701 1992 TSR n Inc. At) Rights Reserved 























































































































RHf jm 


V A 1 , " f ¦ 




, " l. 


; ft - 1 ' l 

l/^V ' r 
Lt'.'-Ui- ' 




JV*- . < 




n >-h> 


¦¦ -. 


*"lt <¦¦ i MWi *" * 


[y* 9 >"-* i. 




p ¦ • *." 


; 


+. 




. 1 




,T ; ¦ "-. • 

; ¦¦¦ i 


* i * 






!;.• I 'V.rjLr. ? .* ft X' 

, I I I 

- ¦' • - ft - I, t 

* r l . V V *• * * * . M 17^" 


v v - ~ ¦ ¦**> 1 ^ 


- •¦¦ '>T ,:¦' 
'• ¦ 1J *1" 1 1 


*¦% 


¦ 








• . 


-ft 


* ' • 1 .-J • ¦ :Y .-' 

* • y5 


rgrt i ii iii j 


I X : -I 

S' L^7 V •; -* * - a ¦•*' . . :jp 

, / .-K'. ¦ , ¦ f: - ¦ ; 

I • .*••* . •§ >•. i S-' ' - ft . , ¦ J 


i if. 


">ft 


¦ 1 . 


, • .p i - • ¦ 

r ' Jt. 

¦.;%?¦*' V% 

r * 




r , . r v , 


i if 


ft \ * 


¦ *T _ 


' -¦* •'*' T .- 1 ¦ 

* -|r -r 


¦ '• *- ¦** 


..4- f - •-?* 

i ill.*. 1 




.. 


-.' i *' 




' > 


-V * 




•:V.M 


¦ . y- 


, ^ 4 


•• 






*•-<. ¦* 


x. 


-h ¦ 






p 


* 


r* j - -v- 




"¦ k 


p X. i 




'¦" j 

• r . 




* •¦* 


- : ? * / 


. 


*'• • • 'r 


¦ " ?.n 






¦'V ¦ ¦ 


r • 5*v-#i 






i * 


' 1 -l ¦ ''1 . V. • 

... •.,/,-•• 

, ¦ ¦' : ; f ' ( - •.rW-'SSra 

:! V , /i ¦ Ji , 


- 1 *v. 


- ¦ 


j- r_ ; 






^-1 - ^ 


• % T . ' i' '¦ 


¦ 




•¦ . . 




W T'' 


c V - ¦ - 


ft 

^ ' * i * ft v-r-*; 


..LU.;1 i 


• ¦ -¦ 


s 


^ > j 


¦%* 4 > 


-> ;• p, J: 


% 


-¦ 


¦ , 




; ; •:-• 


i 






V 




. 1 : 


r 41 






. ii,'rtvSv.. "x-.. 


'. ¦ 


*1* 


" r V 


H.- . 


a a : Z2J35M 

¦ , *. • * ¦* ¦ - 4¦' ¦ i. 


" 


-i !•• • 






v; • 

r ¦ *p ' * .'v-iVi- 


T vv- 1 


-v - 


-r- 


*, 


¦ - 

T"j ¦ '"VJ ¦*•-,- l ^ 

r_'- rtft 1 ,2?j( m Z 1 ' ' ^ 

x ; 1 i., ^ ' j - ¦ ¦ ¦ 


•¦¦r- ii--: • ,J -¦ ¦"- 




* ' 

¦un*maM| 


•i" ¦ f_r 






" L ? 

¦ L ¦ # 


v-: 


i v M 


-P.V 


.*: t r 


|ft- #/' J \ 

V i IvJft . r ¦ I j 


s , -••" .. 


* - * 


a ziisr'& -¦ /l % -i •*t*. .1 '¦ 

• • ¦ • ¦ • 




. * -V- fc 


1 


• . 


¦ 1 - 




# i' 


ll 


V 


:'M 




. ix- 

- , ¦ - i 


2 V - p : - *•¦-• 

- - * . ••" • ¦• 


1* -¦%">¦" ** 




**-*"-r 5r> 


¦<¦* 




:t. - ^ ri-fVi 


3i'-: -If*'--i-V, , 
¦.-¦¦¦ i 7 . 






• d - - T-" 
4 + 4 ¦ 




• : 'H. 


4- t , * 




- ¦" * ft 




' ¦ .¦* ¦ ; 




-. k - .. m -- ¦ 

¦ = ¦"• : 


f-- % -i. . * 

¦ T i ;' i L . -¦ ¦ tl-\ i - Vi*? ft i * 

. : 1 1 

IwMpftx.- ¦ > , ¦ •¦ 

• -v: :"•. v,- : - 


: a* 


•J 


¦ ' . 




¦ ¦* r "¦ ^ 2 








¦ a*/-.:.' , ¦ 


* 1 ¦' ¦ 


¦JjXvs,.. i 








r " , - r 




¦¦ 


L 


VT: , • " - V ¦ . \ " ¦-. j i,!D 

• •, -v. : "i '¦--¦ v,- . 

¦ ¦ - - ¦ :; J i ^ •'.•• - ••'- -. 

-..- v - r - V- . ••• 

: ::• -• •• -V -i: : :.--V 

.V i - :- -•'. . 




- 




V-*- 




*¦ . 




T"*-* 


f 4hl 


r • -r 


¦ lf v' ¦ j; *- "i> ' " 

¦. ' • V- •¦-••¦. 

: ?!'- •¦ ¦"'>¦ . • -i: W- 1 

L ^ 


J 4 •:>* 


r ¦ V 


¦ . 






ft -ft 


-- 


£. 1 -. 






• . ., 


¦* ¦ j 


• m 


¦" u" "¦ y V"' ¦ ¦' 




^^7-4 




i. w-k-,__ 1,1 


'•'¦*¦-- - '¦ < 4ft . . ¦ 

E2*"-a*-- . * 




-. VC 


P---P! 


'r_. .¦" ft' S. 

1 ¦ ' Jm ¦r.j 








e .,v.. . • h- v .-V, . !v ^. *17 '::f 1 






^•r ¦ 


¦• r •. -z L 
•¦ ¦ - • _ " 


¦ 




* * 


-V ¦; - ml".; '" ,. J 


, ¦ J 1 " 


•r | - 

• ¦ ' a •¦s f -r-rw -. 


* ' ' J ' ¦ 

-T 'JP. ' . 


•. . | • r _ •" f r ' ft- -*£ I - 

xf ¦ . ¦*? ^ * 1 ft- 




j * '¦. * i; ¦ ^ ¦ i 

i-*A ¦ 

'•; •• 

¦-. 


..." if ¦- • - , - 1 

.... 

" -ivV. 

u . ¦-¦ -^,- r .^ ; -, - 

-C& ' 


kr 


w 


a 








¦• ¦•- -• ¦"+•.' 


; , ¦ *r . 


'• ? ! !* c I .- 


J '1 


11 4 ' 

?¦ ;s 

•i -•* v.. 




--- - 


c 


- -•.* •'. i 


* * 








i ¦ 

;¦ '¦'4" 






^ v. 


' - ¦ 










ti.. * ¦ , V-f 

JV 7'" . 

: Vi -A •¦'¦ 

'.-V -0 

¦ -.WrfrX ;}¦¦ , 


. • ¦ 

- -.i.*'. -- , 

r. - -.- J, 

: ' v ¦ 

-yf : ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ 

X/ + \ ^ I; 

" 1 ' 

L ' l • 


f 


-. . ¦. 




' : 


* 


Ei iXl ff 


¦ ¦ 1 L ~ < >' v 

¦-•¦' -.jpi , 'i 

' i . ; 


. -- - ¦¦ " * 

* ' . ' ¦•4-i j t.j., r 

i ' • iP-iiJ., . ¦ ,i *¦_ 

¦ , .1* - " k \rt 

" "v'v: 


¦•- i 


-i-ft- 


a ft's * ' ¦ • E ^ - 

¦II ' ' ¦ ¦ ¦ >- <--r.i 'feftI- " 




- 1 • 4 




Tsrp 


ZZ'TT* *+* 


.y .-. , .- v- • ¦ - -, ". , . -^-x 

J '* ¦: ¦ ^ •>;< ¦"¦<¦ ' - 

¦¦¦: . i ¦-¦ i ¦ i; 




^.-apaori -j 


¦PT 




¦ ¦ 


- - 






, ' P V -<V 'pN 1 

i ft * "v" ? , i , p/ 

. 




W> r ' 




'j* 


'-ft' .... 




- r' I . im ' '' T'V ' 

fv* f' n ft . . . " 1 

r ' - -1 .1 

> ¦'iiiiCin,!¦ I 

. 1. fljMBffr i' 


VL- -?*> 




rr ¦ ft-* ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦r'¦ t ,- 

L'!' " ,.V5; _ y . 




saw 




'•-y • - 


¦•" ¦ ¦- * 'x.y '.'I-'-- 




¦ft-- •" 


r; ¦ ¦¦ j ,.¦- * 

r.' r • 




¦7, ¦ 1 ¦ ' .1..... ¦ Ji 

¦ ¦ . .1- V-,r - - .. 


¦> 


- ...j ' -i-. 


I'.- 


W-ft ¦ 




W"mJ 






Trrvr?' ii - ¦ 
f-ftf r:.^ ¦ Ai-;- 




;v *-? ¦¦£ 


" 


J ¦¦ 
r ivj, 










• -"• 


SV-i.-a*" ¦• 






- • TP 


W*" i 


r"-irWi 




>¦ •* 

i'- - r -- 






x-- 


. •• - i2-'J 


... 






T ' ¦*? 




ml. 




* iii 






J 






j 


- - - 






> 


ii'¦" 




1 " S f - 

i, • ^ " -. -s, - 


- - - 


L Y f';-V - i 


-•-ip 


-. 


1 


¦ 

>-i--v 1 j-::. ¦ ¦ 






ft 


' •-• ¦ . 


> .' V ¦' v ' 

¦PH ¦. ft" 

I- T,jr :• ¦. a" 

-¦ t I - V ¦ ¦ 


; 


.f* f 


: -vi. 


¦ - 




'lij 

"¦ 


- "¦*. ' 'V, '•> :$ 
.: % i - - , ; -v 


' j ¦ > -i- fti- -!-* ¦ 

..- . J. • .. - '- 

i* - - '¦•j* ¦ -*¦>. 

¦ ¦ - /a* - - - * 

Jr ¦ 'B' 5 ¦ -* ¦'- 


v 


p 




% 'r* ; ;.:• • ! 












i • - 


. ..'.' 




/ f - ¦, • ¦•: 

/ I 


ft. 1 


DM 


P 1 * 






TJ'jh 


-¦-:-- 








nv 


, r .; 


" •' • X. 

*¦*¦:"• ¦ , -xr f 




- * ft - 


M " ; : . "'>/¦¦ .* l" 






•-• . • 




•i ft. - 4. ^ __ 

- - fc *£-; ,¦ 

'i * 1*^^.. V - ft 1 ! 

"¦ ; • 1 " *> ' • .35 . *MiA. .* -! 


• I ¦.: - 


• |V' 


8*m * -•¦ 


> vi?. 


r -.¦ . j - ... C-|.. 


v\ ? • - 




s. 5> 


r. .- 


J..I 






.. ¦ -Tr- J 






¦ ¦" 






y*pf - • 


- ... 




Is 1 








',"1 • v.- 

¦1- * -TV-- 

I r 


L 

¦; Itj** 


¦mm 


¦ - - ,/ t 1 * 

I - --ft-"- ~P J . rV- . 




-t 

lY^J. .dk 4 ¦ • .. ... ' • 






.Sr 


" 


' •-p- . i. . Y>Hi 


-T . p* 

ft-ift-x, 

"* ....< .. 


¦- •V-- 


Jf', -* 


" * 

1 -r- *n- 




- r. -"'ft ¦¦ 


¦E • " ri r -- 

¦ iV -*• 

v.f '¦ 
- •'-.¦ ¦" 


r z 


**¦ 


• j -11 f 4 Pi 




*P . 


°v .; 

-V :-=¦! . 

- , , 

- •-. 


* - 


.* Mn 


.' r -v-: fc • v\ 

1 • .-' . 1: 


• p 




# 


fi rt a 




J , ¦ 




l Vb 






n k|| i | 4 r j j 


- ,'p.. 


' I 

¦ ¦ !*¦_ • ., V 

-v : - f;->..:• ." ,.- - 

ft<A S..- t ? ,.. .' :/- 

T '/ .' v r . -i* t V 'J.r . -l, ' # 

* . X .• - 




.. iv- 


• "'-- 




' ' 2C, 






.V -. ¦ - A ' 


¦ v - J ; ¦• 


** 


i "-.-t 


fty- 


X'-- 

r - I ' -' ¦ 






•mm-i 


MM4 


3WJ- V .ft ¦ - 

'v'- * 4 1 


V •£• > 




-v;•... 


-i . 


f- ¦ iy" 








M i l ' 

' ¦¦ ' . 1 

4' H ' .k . ..K.'r 1 


" ¦> , ' . " ¦ -•¦ . . ' 


r -. L - 1 

¦ ¦¦ 

- V"--: A*^diSL 


;£' 


¦" ¦ 


¦ 


- , . 


1 / 

* -' II'- S 

f I fc Jr- 

(i /x 


i _ 1 ' ¦ _ • ¦ - 




:f ? ' ^ t' v 

• L ? i 




, i • r t'lkk . 

• t - '- m' -Vft- . - i--. 


w S 


"f 




vJ 


I : / . I ¦ * 4 

\r ; -f t ' I it? 

xB * r * * r 

::I •-*• •*-' -1 , ' , ¦ 

f w >. B ¦ T * - - 


fe* 


. .-V . 


X'n 


s. 




'•-it"- 

- if- '-.5& 

¦" 'j * . i •> '¦"¦¦¦'. , - . 


^ fc 


* kjy 

a 






5naww wtiagE:.v*r_- • 

'VVV' .- ' ! .-, 


- fc -a* cry* .-. 

¦ v V - j ¦ 

. •> i ¦ ¦ - 


i 


r '.t -i.. 


- . i - 

I / ", 

x : 

k * v v ¦-¦ -¦ -if 

f ¦' - -it*. '¦-- r'i- 


! -i* *V t 


% 


' fc . • ¦K< • j • 
\ -x*.. v vK 

¦ ¦ .x 


.--ir -i- , 


- ./ 


• . ¦% 


-.-*¦ ¦*- v'l " ft- 




M-. 


¦"-ji 


-.;.-; . t -. i 

'V . ¦ . ' J fc -¦ . • ! 


'-tt 


••' .4. -- ' v-V,rBf'j:'.. 7 

¦. -. . I .. V*. 

' p. . .• L - " B~v a '* 

> L '3^ ,a 


'V'v •£ \ £¦ ' 1 -•'. 

.- ¦ - • 

TV v ::-- ¦'/V:v - 1 


jpVAix-rt 


- I. 


t.ivr j- w i- j 

1 r / 

ja I i> i JK. /. 


- ¦- V..-W 

- - v • ¦: 


;v •-• .- -¦ - . 

1 ¦ ¦ _•¦¦ ¦/i 


*p * - .* * 


, .7 V •' ¦ 

- y.-^- . * --S -9 

' P"- J. v ¦ , p_ 


V. 


¦ . 


•1 








;VrJ-v 

r . JLit ;r-- ft •. .'hi f - ,; 


r. iV 4.ii 

!?jfe 


li- ¦ ^ - 


• - VvJ ¦ + 


. * 


¦ m_ 


*¦ ' 


t ft 


*> * 




4 W I * ' I 

d^m *wlj* r r 1 t . 1|i. P * V[S|, 

fc' ;.v •:••''•• I ¦;• - v i 


* ¦ ¦ •'•'¦- - : 


;; - 


-¦ . . V • 'i' 

ft.' - - 1 7 


-_ r- 


* 








x ¦ 




.1 ¦ 

¦k -•"•: v- : '¦ ' f, 


r x < ¦. ¦ * - * 1 ?7 > <-.- p . 

r .1 •>';¦-¦.> •' -. I 

' V--¦•••, - i'" ¦¦- 

-If- ' ¦ -. L j • ft " . .'I *- • 

ftf*r • ' • ;v V 

1 *-v' ' 


¦a J :; 




v%- 

¦ .•* Jr . ¦_ ¦ 


a ¦•¦*•:¦ ¦ ¦.- 

- - -..r' • -*- 

: ftTSi" 4" • ¦ ¦ . - • ¦ - 


-jy 


TfSiZ?* J! 

* •• 


. v 






•"v ¦ 


:/£' ' 1 .T>;fi;Efei - -i i . :r-.J 
5*r v ; ;s:l • ¦ ' ¦ . 1 1 

- ' 1 .,v'' * • -'^j 

_". + B . "r mi ¥ l*ft, _ r - '¦* B ¦ I 

¦ *.*i '•-fc -i V*jBi r 1 

V - r¦ -n'r*" 


IV . 


if 




. ' 1 


" a r 


;' -, i i - •; 

V. -'. t ¦ 

.^k -ry. a 






.H 




• r - -"- 




r y fy^-v-fc-.-¦ ¦*&¦ 

-X'Hy.-* I<r , 

¦ v- 


1 . 


' J "y > 


ft. 


' 8 4, "* 




^ . ", p, c * -i" 


Vv.>^-^>7 


¦' • 


74 ... > . 


r ¦ £ i" " ' " 

r -7- . ,-. ¦ -ft-. ' 

' ¦ ¦ " ¦ ¦¦ i 






.,i- r 


P .- J" .-. ft c -^ 


f- - 

¥¦• - . i- r 




-itv'-'CC 


, .V' . 


-•-- 


' "¦ > • ¦ V n 

. - . v; v\. ', I* 

A*/ ¦- .*• *•; -. #• -.- '. ¦ ¦ ¦**-" 

¦ V-? . • I. ft H , -¦ ' ¦ , 

, • • •' i- J . i: *. j-.-M 


- " -.'. . 


- , ¦ • i- , ¦ 1 

[y ; 1 *-tr?'] 

¦r- ' ¦ I •' , . *,v -I 


- VYH^lTil.W! - r- T* 

- ¦ V v -• 

tV^x"' -i - ¦ 


-v ft* - 


¦; ;•'¦¦¦ 


-v 


.-V: .- *i . J-",' . .' . •- I 

V- -. -. ' . . e -.J 

,3^?- "- 5 - ¦ I •* ft -,i.- • 

" " ...ft- V 


' ' • ¦¦ ' I ' l 

i-z: •('.•-•/a'iI. ' 

ft .. I •*-•.- . 


LIT. ¦ 




r ,--.- 


a.V ; 






""y# 




. "i_ " 11 


,?tT ;>t 

; t. p.s 


T-'.- 


¦I-- v?. 




h * a >¦* 




¦ r - V - 


'• >:V'a 


¦ . . 4-."- - 

' - . . - - 


¦P.-- .T . -r- 

-ia.* 






¦V-Sil-'' -v>-' 

- -¦- i - . ¦ *•- 


•; . - -. * 


'W:--r ; 


: 1 -i ,: : 


/•i" I- •¦- -c rii x 

- 4 * ¦&¦ ''A-/ 

• • - Cv/*' ! *Sy -'. Ss'< • 

-•-I'A' 


1 1 


¦' ¦%" -- 


J--: 




7' *•. 




. 




1 - m.%v 


¦¦j. v.-vi-; ? 

¦ ail it ft 'I . 




. - -}YV r -,,V -ftr . 


Vfc .' 




• i 




- ,.4j f ' • v 

S- - ¦ J '¦ 1 - 4 . 




* ¦ vp * V 1 


' 


- f.v 


• "a v p 


. '.' ;-.- - - 


i ' 'i 








vCK 


.-LT- Yl 


• |g. •¦ 


. f "¦ • ,:. [ .-¦* 1 - 

"v.'> •'¦¦• I. ••' ¦ f mC.yyXa 

* *• ,1 • 1 . - fta . , 

" -d ¦ Ml , I ! ifl , I . 

-i -t* . -/ 1 5^4 I f.' \ -v • I 








j,-, ... u 


*- r -..>-*i . 


- t ! £ 


v, ¦¦• .-.V i ¦ --,- -j.ftV 

..xppir 


- ¦ ¦= A-; 


--¦.*¦ 


- ?. 


- .-> i 


- > v-J ::.t , . *--•? 

: : y-*" L . "'T, 'tkl.v"' 


rw.. 


! •• - . * .* . ¦-¦••. ¦ ¦ 1 - fcnji _I. h J-fc-r.- ¦- *-v"l 

* * ¦ , ¦. '"Tv W'* ¦ V - 1 " J- fcm. 1, * '• ^ J 

•' 'lx'- ' -¦ v: I ^ •¦ 

l ~ ' I-.'-.'* ' J 






77TVJP 


F"Wv rA ; 


¦ - l"* d 


I 


ft- 


r V ¦" k - a - • - - 

rii rCl h • J 


r; 


n--*M 


* - ¦. 


¦f " v f- 


-¦ * 1. <• 

-:%*¦¦+ ¦* 


, " 1' ^-V *. * ft 1 ft 1 


,F'r i * i,, fc .i' v f T 

¦yV'- - f 






.*:V 


. _ J - _,. 

' -T. ¦ , •-¦ 


--I.i + 


-A 


r 


C^*--- i 'JMr'i 1 I'Tn 

¦ a - : -> 


v , 


'¦>- 41 '-.-V.: £' - 

I 

_• M , • i i , 




* s 




1 7 V ' V *¦ 


¦1 




L 


A' 


Ik'. 

^ k T r 


V_V -.-V 


¦ i - T - 

BfiMJtoigSK 


1 j 


* vTT 


¦ - mak 




¦ -- 








ed Serpent 


1992 TSR, Inc. All 
1Q73XXX0703 


ft ¦•¦ -. - 


P.V vIMfft ,i, 

. " x 






<inu-. w 
H k ifci m u . 



















































































































































































































* "• 





"*\ ."mMLm ' 

rr t .^ : ' ..¦% / T ' I - --¦ f' j 

\ _,<ii ~ ilP%i^/ . t 

i ¦ ", *\'- 

- - • * 1 • jf '' *1.* r 



m l : - - '* ^• •¦SE 2 L "*¦ . j * • f . , _ J J~ 

_._ ^_ , - '" V_. * 

LI-' j\ • '- ¦*- 








































































































































































































































































































... The dragon laughs and prepares to strike. But you were nearly 

defeated by his minions, and you are now too weak to wield your sword. 

Your magic-user is out of spells; your other comrades, too, have lost 
their fighting spirit. What hope have you of defeating the vile 
dragon? Do you run, or do you try one last, desperate plan ... ? 



Hi- 1 -' 


One sheet of cards and 62 playing pieces for use with the 
stand-alone mini-game* 

To play the 3 Dragon Adventures in this game, 
vou must own the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS game. The 
bonus board game is playable immediately. 


Three separate adventure booklets. 

Three full-color poster-size maps, one for each adventure 
Six dozen monster and character stand-up counters. 
Sixty-six tiles for dressing up your dungeons, 

A six-sided die and a ten*sided die. 


¦ i i ¦ ii ¦ ii 11 i tm ¦ 

1 56D 763802 


ISBN l-5fc07[.-3fl[M 





















