Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09488 AD& D FR The Return Of Randal Morn"
See other formats
artn 



iji 

pHSfcli 





























The ReTuRM of 

RaMbaL Morm 


by Jim BuTLen. 
Table of CowTewTs 


22 
. 22 
.23 
24 
23 
26 

27 

28 
. 28 
29 

29 

30 
32 

Ciz&bYts 

Design: Jim Butler • Editing: Allison Lassieur • Project Coordination: David Wise 
Interior Art: Elizabeth T. Danforth • Typesetting: Nancy J. Kerkstra • Cover Art: Bruce Eagle 
Cartography: Dennis Kauth • Graphic Design Cover: Renee Ciske • Production: Dee Barnett 
Play testers: Robby Duncan, Eran Edwards, Dennis Johnson, Leonard McGillis, 

Deneen Olsen, Brandy Stevens, Deb Turner. 


Welcome To DxggeR FaLLs/. 2 

The AcTIon So Far. 2 

WbaT Notu?. 4 

OXheR Th)togs To Knouj. 4 

The JouRNey.5 

DxggeR Falls. 9 

Ambushed/.15 

AfteRmaTb.15 

The GarrIson.14 

The Chase. 19 

E/od of The Llwe..20 

The Fight foR DaggeR Falls.21 

StoeeT VlctoRy?.21 


Its Not Ove r Yet. 

The BRokew DxggeR . 

The Warehouse. 

Orc Attack/ . 

The ChleftalM. 

The BxtoqueC . 

Gothyl's PLaws. 

Magical Items & Spells. 

The StuoRd of the DxLes 

Sbadotushleld. 

TeLeponX Rlwg. 

MoKisterc ARcb-Sbadoua .. 
Etoaouhfteris Appendix - - - - 


TSR, Inc. 

201 Sheridan Springs Rd. 
Lake Geneva, 

WI 53147 
U.S.A. 



TSR Ltd. 
120 Church End, 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, DUNGEON MASTER, and FORGOTTEN REALMS are registered 
trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. The TSR logo is a 
trademark owned by TSR, Inc. All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof 
are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. This is a work of fiction. 
Any semblance to any real person, living or dead, is strictly coincidental. Random House and its affiliate 
companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade 
for English language products of TSR, Inc. Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United 
Kingdom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by 
regional distributors. This book is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. 
Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of the material or art 
work herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. Copyright (c)1995 TSR, Inc. 
All rights reserved. Printed in the U.S.A. 


9488XXX1501 


ISBN 0-7869-0170-5 






































Welcome To 
Dagger Fails( 


Fierce winds rise and dark shadows fall/Unbearable burdens grind us down. 

Into dust we are bound, the circle comes around/Without sound. 

- Excerpt from Storm Silverhand's Legacy of the Chosen. 



he Return of Randal Morn is a Forgotten Realms(r) Campaign Set 
ting adventure for four to six characters of 2nd through 4th levels. 
While lst-level adventurers might be able to survive the rigors of 
this adventure, it is strongly recommended that a party include at 
least one 4th-level character. Nonplayer character (NPC) num 
bers and levels may need to be adjusted upward for more powerful parties. 

This is the last module in the Dales trilogy of adventures, which began with The 
Sword of the Dales and continued with The Secret of Spiderhaunt. In this installment, 
the heroes finally rescue Randal Morn and discover the secrets introduced in The 
Sword of the Dales. 

The Dungeon Master should be thoroughly familiar with the module before play 
begins. Specific information concerning the arch-shadow Gothyl and the unique 
magical items found within this adventure can be found at the end of the module. 


The AcTjonj So Far. 

T he heroes began their odyssey in Shadowdale. There they were hired by 
Lhaeo, scribe to Elminster of Shadowdale, to find and rescue Randal Morn. 
According to legend, Shraevyn -a powerful wizard from times past-created a 
mighty sword known as the Sword of the Dales. The Sword was to serve as a symbol 
of authority for the ruler of the Dales, but knowledge of the blade-along with the 
location of Shraevyn's tomb - disappeared when the wizard died. Recently the 
tomb was uncovered in the area of the Giant's Craw, and word of its discovery 
reached Randal and his Freedom Riders. Randal raced to the tomb with the hope 
of recovering the Sword and using it to regain control of Daggerdale. 

Once he and his companions found the Sword and left the tomb, they were 
attacked by Zhentarim forces. Randal and his group easily dispatched this enemy, 
but another one appeared: a horde of undead. This ghoulish group poured from the 
tomb and destroyed the rebels. During this onslaught, Gothyl, an arch-shadow 
(detailed on page 30-31), emerged from the Sword, trapped Randal, and disap 
peared. Gothyl was once a wizardess of tremendous power who sought to achieve 
lichdom many years ago. The process failed, and she was transformed into an arch 
shadow. Since then, she has been seeking to change into a demi-shade. 


2 









Ariton, the only Freedom Rider to survive, escaped to 
Shadowdale and sought the aid of Elminster. The wizard's 
scribe, Lhaeo, tended the man's wounds and listened to 
his story. The scribe then went in search of adventurers 
willing to take on the job of rescuing Randal. 

The PCs accepted the assignment and immediately ran 
headlong into danger. The tomb of the wizard Shraevyn 
was anything but empty; undead lurked around every cor 
ner and cryptic magical wards slowed the party's progress. 
When the PCs finally arrived at the burial chamber, they 
found the Sword of the Dales- but no Randal. The only 
sign that he had been there was a note telling the party to 
search for him in Spiderhaunt Wood. 

As The Secret of Spiderhaunt unfolded, Gothyl sent the 
heroes dream images filled with cries of torment and 
anguish. She used them to disorient the PCs and to draw 
them closer to her tower in Spiderhaunt. The arch 
shadow's scheme worked: The PCs headed for the tower. 

Once the PCs were deep within the fortress, Gothyl 
disguised herself as Hedistrin, a beneficent spirit bound to 
the Sword, and appeared to them when they discovered 


Randal Morn trapped within a dreamglobe spell. She told 
them what they needed to do to release Randal Morn, but 
her instructions were a trap. The heroes who did as they 
were told were attacked by the spirits of Gothyl's appren 
tices, which were trapped within the skulls of lifeless 
skeletons. 

Unfortunately for Gothyl, the Zhentarim entered her 
tower on the heels of the party. Led by Ilthond (the Zhent 
wizard who was nearly burned to death by Shandril in the 
novel Spellfire), they took possession of some of the skulls 
and released Randal Morn. Ilthond teleported to Dagger 
Falls with both Randal and the skulls. 

Gothyl was furious. Not only did she lose her appren 
tices, but she also lost her chance to drain Randal of his 
life force and become a demi-shade. She assumed the 
form of the friendly spirit again and begged the PCs to go 
to Dagger Falls and rescue Randal Morn. She has plans of 
her own for Ilthond. 

Gothyl cast a shadowshield spell on each of the PCs 
(refer to page 29). This spell should be in effect on the 
PCs when the adventure begins. 



3 























WbaX No<jl>? 

t the opening of this adventure, the heroes find 
themselves on their way to the city of Dagger Falls. 
The overland trek to the city is fraught with danger. 
Ilthond expects the PCs to make some kind of daring res 
cue attempt, so he has increased patrol activity in the area. 

On their way to Dagger Falls, the PCs meet a band of 
Freedom Riders led by Ariton, the lone survivor of Ran 
dal's quest. Ariton has heard that Randal is held in Dag 
ger Falls and knows his friend is scheduled to be executed. 
Ariton asks the PCs to go into the city and report on the 
strength of the Zhent militia. FFe stresses that this infor 
mation is vital to a successful Freedom Rider attack. 

The guards at the Dagger Falls gate harass the PCs but 
allow them in. The PCs complete the reconnaissance and 
deliver their report to the Freedom Rider contact. As the 
heroes leave, they are ambushed by 20 guards. The Zhents 
order the PCs to surrender, then the heroes are hit with 
arrows coated with sleep poison. 

The characters awaken to discover they are chained to 
a wall in a dingy room. A self-important officer by the 
name of Guthbert Golthammer enters the room, waving 
the Sword of the Dales as he speaks. Guthbert isn't the 
most intelligent man around, and the PCs easily trick him 
into saying the word merri/dale - the command that opens 
their manacles. 

When this happens, Ilthond immediately teleports 
into the room and orders Guthbert to kill the PCs. 
Gothyl, in her arch-shadow form, hisses from the Sword 
and attacks Ilthond. Finally, Gothyl kills the wizard and 
disappears. She has achieved her demi-shade status. 

The PCs see Zhent guards spirit Randal away and load 
him onto a wagon. A wild chase through the chaotic, bat 
tle-filled streets ensues, and the PCs are attacked by 
rooftop archers as they pursue the fleeing wagon. The 
wagon crashes and Randal is thrown to safety. 

The characters at long last meet Randal as the Free 
dom Riders overwhelm the Zhent occupation forces. The 
party is taken to the Freedom Rider headquarters and 
given food and a few hours' sleep. 

Finally, the PCs are pounded awake by the sound of 
war drums. A troop of ores hired by the Zhents to level 
Dagger Falls floods into the city, and the characters 
quickly dispatch the enemy leader. 


The adventure closes when Randal gives the PCs land 
grants within Daggerdale and the heroes are given the 
opportunity to talk with Elminster and Khelben. 

Gothyl is far from finished. Refer to the Gothyl's Plans 
section at the end of the module (page 27). 

OTheft Tbiwgs 
To Kmouj 

C haracters who completed The Secret of Spiderhunt 
begin this adventure by traveling to the eastern bor 
der of Spiderhaunt from Gothyl's tower. It should take 
characters three to four days of travel to get out of Spider- 
haunt. Chances are good that Madarn, the gnome spider- 
hunter/guide, is still with them. 

It is highly recommended that an adventuring party go 
through at least one of the prior adventures before begin 
ning The Return of Randal Morn. If this is not possible, the 
DM should paraphrase the information contained in the 
What Happened Before section. 

The PCs should know only that Hedistrin (Gothyl) is 
a spirit bound to the Sword of the Dales and that she wants 
Randal Morn to wield the powerful blade. These are all 
lies, of course, but adventurers have no way of knowing 
this, due to the non-detection spell she always casts before 
speaking to the group. 

The DM should give new characters a reason to travel 
to Dagger Falls. A few scenarios include: 

• The PCs encounter a Zhent warrior who is trying to 
get the Sword back to Dagger Falls. Once he is 
defeated, the heroes find clues that lead them to Dag 
ger Falls. 

• Gothyl emerges from the Sword and gives a convincing 
speech about how the Dales need them to rescue Ran 
dal Morn. She explains the powers of the weapon and 
Randal Morn's kidnapping. Her plea ends with a dire 
warning about the power of the skulls Ilthond took 
with him from the tower. 

• Lhaeo, scribe to Elminster of Shadowdale, approaches 
the party and explains the quest. He tells them that 
the last party to attempt the rescue was destroyed, and 
he needs replacements. He gives them the Sword, one 
potion of extra-healing, a long sword +1, and the promise 
of a land grant in Shadowdale if they succeed. 



4 







The Jouruoey 

"I'm often asked the surest way to defeat a monster or destroy a magical ward, but it 
woidd be better to ask the safest trail or best-patrolled roadway. It does little good to arrive 
strong in knowledge, yet weak from travel". 

- Elminster of Shadowdule 

11 characters begin the adventure a few miles north of the 
Northride along the Tethyamar Trail. Random encounters 
should be checked either once every four hours or when the 
party takes actions that advertise its presence (bonfires, fireballs 
into the air, etc.). Consult the Encounters Appendix on page 
32 for specific scenarios. If the heroes devise an especially creative way to avoid an 
encounter, they should be rewarded. Innovative, intelligent role-playing should be 
rewarded as well. 

As characters begin their journey toward Dagger Falls, read the following: 



The Tethyamar trail continues north through this land. Patches of scrub brush 
and outcroppings of rock slowly turn into deep grass further ahead. 

To the west, the dark Spiderhaunt Wood is a reminder of past journeys. Its 
dark branches undoubtedly hold more secrets than merely one wizard's tower. 

The Dagger Hills, rising upon the western horizon, cut through the land 
scape like a jagged scar. 


The following key corresponds to Map 1 on the inside front cover. 

A. ZbewT WeLcomitog 



s soon as the PCs turn into a gully, they find themselves face-to-face with a 
squad of Zhent warriors. Roll for surprise normally. 


The trail twists and turns as it comes out of a dry riverbed. Suddenly, thundering 
hooves and a resounding order of "Charge!" echo across the bleak landscape. 

Glancing around quickly, you see a group of 12 mounted men-wearing the 
livery of the Zhentilar - galloping forward, lances gleaming. Behind the soldiers 
you see a familiar form: Illthond, the wizard from the tower in Spiderhaunt. 


Ilthond has been watching the PCs, confident that they plan to rescue Randal 
Morn. He ordered these men to meet the PCs outside of the woods and slay them. 

Even if the PCs set weapons for a charge, the Zhents continue forward. The sol 
diers first attack with lances, then switch to swords. 

If the PCs are not mounted, the Zhents gain a +1 on their attacks (attacking 





5 















from higher ground). The soldiers receive an additional 
+1 on their attack rolls vs. surprised defenders. A sur 
prised PC loses all bonuses for Dexterity and shield. 

Zhent Soldiers (12): lst-level human fighters; AL 
LE; AC 5; MV 12; h P 12, 10, 9(*3), 8(x2), 7(x3), 6, 

5; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type (2d6 for 
the initial lance charge, ld6 thereafter), ld8 (long 
sword); SZ M; ML 14; XP 35. Each wears chain mail 
and carries a long sword and a light horseman's 
lance. On each belt is small sack containing 35 gp. 

Light Warhorse (12): Int animal; AL N; AC 7; MV 
24; HD 2+2; hp 14, 13, 11, 10(x4), 9(x2), 7(x2), 6; 
THACO 19; #AT 2; Dmg Id4/ld4; SZ L; ML 6; XP 
35. Each saddlebag contains one weeks' worth of iron 
rations and two changes of clothing. 

Characters can hide behind the large rocks along the 
bank. One rock offers 75% concealment (-3 AC bonus) 
while the others offer 50% concealment (-2 AC bonus). 
PCs hide successfully only during the initial charge, since 
the Zhents approach from behind on the next round. 

The horses do not attack unless one of the PCs is per 
ceived as a threat (such as if a PC is running a wemic). 

B. Brzoketo Pizom'ises 


A high-pitched wail assails your ears and echoes across 
the plains. The sound seems to be coming from all 
around, and you see a fiery streak of light blazing across 
the sky. The wail gets louder, and the fireball strikes a 
nearby boulder, shattering it in a burst of shrapnel. 
Thick, black smoke curls into the sky. 


The bottle is cool enough to touch after ld4 rounds. If 
it is moved or touched, read the following: 


"Free at last!" thunders a voice. A trail of black smoke 
snakes out of the bottle and transforms into a tower 
ing, 13-foot-tall creature. Fire dances across its skin, 
and its eyes blaze with contempt. 

"Does Master give me to others, or do you seek to 
protect the master from my wrath?" the creature asks. 
"For time unimagined I have served mortal fools who 
sought to control me. Now I shall have my revenge!" 

There is a loud grating sound, as if stone were 
pressed against stone. The bottle slowly crumbles into 
dust as the fiery creature looks on in glee. 


The destruction of the efreeti bottle released the efreeti 
from service, but he wants someone to plead for mercy 
before he heads for the City of Brass, his former home. 

If the PCs beg for their lives, the efreeti roars into the 
sky and disappears. If the characters attack or if the efreeti 
believes they're not sincere, he attacks. Any PC who 
attempts to command the efreeti is attacked immediately. 

Efreeti (1): Int very; AL LE; AC 2; MV 9, FI 24 (B); 
HD 10; h P 61; THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 3d8; SA invis 
ibility, gaseous form, detect magic, enlarge, polymorph self, 
wall of fire, pyrotechnics; SD fire-based attacks inflict 1 
HD less damage per die; SZ L; ML 15; XP 8,000. 

C. SeKpewTsbKidge 

C haracters who adventured through Sword of the Dales 
immediately recognize Serpentsbridge. When the 
party approaches the bridge, read the following: 


A genie bottle has been hurled to the earth, a casualty 
of a magical duel elsewhere in the Realms. If the PCs 
approach the point of impact, read the following: 


Shards of splintered granite are scattered everywhere. 
About 100 feet in front of you is a small crater, and the 
dirt is smoking. Glowing within the hole is a small 
black bottle with gold trim. It shimmers with a heat 
you can feel as you move closer. You notice a large 
crack running down one side of the bottle. 


The river Ashaba, churning its way south toward the 
Dales, rages below a huge stone bridge. A weather 
worn wooden sign proclaims this to be Serpentsbridge. 
As you approach, you notice the stone on the sides of 
the bridge is cut into ridges that look like the writhing 
bodies of hundreds of snakes. 

As the first of your group reaches the bridge, a 
rustling sound catches your attention. Before you can 
pinpoint where the sound came from, an animal-like 
yowl trumpets from the trees near the bridge. 


6 














Ilthond sent a force of hobgoblins to secure the bridge. 
The creatures are divided into two groups of six. 

Rocks and trees on the northern side of the bridge give 
the hobgoblins cover. Armed with short bows, these brutes 
shoot at anyone attempting to cross Serpentsbridge. 

The hobgoblins create confusion by moving to a differ 
ent position after each round of battle. Each hobgoblin 
gains a -7 bonus to Armor Class as long as he is shooting 
from the protection of the trees. 

If the PCs manage to engage the monsters in hand-to- 
hand combat, the hobgoblins first seek to attack the wiz 
ards and priests hiding behind the fighters. 

Hobgoblins (12): Int average; AL LE; AC 5; HD 1+1; 
h P 9(x2), 8(x2), (7x2), 6(x3), 5, 4(x2); #AT 1 or 2; 
Dmg ld8 or Id6/ld6; SZ M; ML 12; XP 35. They carry 
long swords and short bows. Hidden under a rock 
beside the bridge is 1,250 sp and 425 gp. 

D. R&fod&zvous 

I f characters met Mestin in The Sword of the Dales 
adventure, she approaches them openly and ask them 
to accompany her to the Freedom Riders' encampment. 


"Hello there!" calls a voice from above. Emerging from 
behind a large clump of rocks is a human female in her 
late 20s. Her clothing is travel-worn and she carries 
twin long swords at her side. 

You immediately recognize her -she is Captain 
Mestin Durmark, leader of the Freedom Riders. 


If the PCs have never met her, read the following: 


"I am Captain Durmark of the Freedom Riders. In case 
you don't keep up with the political affairs of Dag- 
gerdale, we're huge thorns in the Zhent's side." A sly 
smile stretches across her tanned features. 

"Captain Ariton Delmis sent me to escort you to 
our camp. He has some interesting news and a proposi 
tion for you that I believe you may find interesting." 


She knows that Randal is held in Dagger Falls, but her 
attention is captured by other troubles that could make 

fr-- 


Randal's life (or death) meaningless. She urges the PCs to 
go with her to the Freedom Rider encampment, but she 
does not force them if they decline. 

Mestin also tells the party that another Freedom Rider, 
Koril Benshay, was captured by the Zhents a few days ago. 
She fears for his safety and offers the PCs 500 gp to rescue 
him. If the characters agree, Mestin escorts them to the 
Freedom Riders' base camp (Area E). 

Captain Mestin "Troll" Durmark: 5th-level human 
ranger (Justifier); AL LG; AC 2; MV 12; hp: 39; 
THACO 16; #AT 5/2 (specialist and two-weapon 
style); Dmg by weapon type + 1; SA hide in shadows 
31%) move silently 40%; S 16, D 16, C 15, I 10, W 
15, Ch 12; XP 420. She has bracers of defense AC 5, a 
ring of protection +1, a long sword +1, and a normal 
long sword. 

Freedom Riders (12): lst-level human fighters; AL 
NG; AC 8; MV 12; h P 9, 8, 7(x2), 6(x4), 5(x2), 4, 

2; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type; ML 14; 
XP 35 each. They wear chain mail and carry long 
swords, short swords, short bows, daggers, and darts. 

B. Biuee&oco R )&ens 

T he journey from the rendezvous with Mestin to the 
base camp takes two hours of steady travel. 


The Dagger Hills open onto a wide, grass-covered 
plateau. Much to your surprise, you see more than a 
hundred tents stretched across the area. 

"When I first joined Randal Morn," Mestin begins, 
"there were only about 100 of us willing to dedicate 
our lives to his cause." She sighs, pausing to survey the 
orderly tent city. "As time passed and the Zhents 
became more ruthless, our ranks grew. Now we num 
ber about 500, but most are simple folk whose only 
desire is to return to their homes." 

As your group makes its way through camp, you see 
people standing in small groups, laughing and talking 
as if they haven't seen one another in a long time. 
Others are busy with mundane chores such as cooking, 
repairing armor, or feeding horses. 


4 


7 












Captain Durmark leads the PCs to a large tent guarded 
by six Freedom Riders. 


Mestin disappears behind the flap of the tent, and you 
follow. Inside, the tent is empty save for a set of stairs 
that descends into a gaping, square hole in the ground. 
Light shines from within the hole. Without pausing, 
Mestin begins downward. 

The stairs go down about 60 feet and end in a large 
room filled with tables, chairs, maps, and Freedom 
Riders. The buzz of conversation fills the tiny room, 
and your nose is assaulted by the combined smells of 
earth, sweat, and moldy leather. A middle-aged man in 
chain mail is pointing to a map on one wall and speak 
ing to a small knot of soldiers. 

"Mestin," he says when he sees your group enter. 
"You made splendid timd" The man weaves his way to 
your group and gives Mestin a big bear hug. 

"I'm glad you decided to join us," the man says, 
smiling as he faces your group. "I am Ariton Delmis, 
temporary leader of the Riders. Judging by your 
appearance, you must be the ones who left Shadow- 
dale to rescue Randal Morn. Can you tell me what has 
happened on your quest?" 


Since Randal is now in Dagger Falls, Ariton knows 
that something went wrong during the party's travels. 
Consequently, the man is very interested the PCs' mis 
sion. Once the PCs finish their story, Ariton continues: 


"Well, you have certainly been busy!" he says, walk 
ing to a nearby table and pouring a glass of water. Fie 
offers each of you a glass, then sits down at the table. 

We've been busy, too," he says. "Our patrols are 
running into increased ore and goblin activity in Dag- 
gerdale. More disturbing is the fact that these 
humanoids carry coins minted in Zhentil Keep." Ari 
ton takes a long draught of water and continues. 

"Last week I sent scouts to explore the Border For 
est. They reported seeing an army of nearly 250 ores as 
well as a few Zhent wizards and patrols. It's not too 
hard to figure out who's behind this." 

Ariton pauses, then sighs as he looks at your group 
and says, "We plan to strike Dagger Falls in four days." 


Once the PCs ask any questions they have, continue: 

"There are other considerations that are forcing us to 
wage war so early," Ariton says. "Randal Morn is 
scheduled to be executed. If we are to rescue him, we 
must know Dagger Falls' defenses. I could have our 
city contacts report to me, but I hesitate to risk them 
further. After all, if we fail it will be up to them -and 
you -to rescue Randal. 

"We need to know how many city guards there are, 
as well as their locations. This is a dangerous assign 
ment, but I hope you are willing to take it on." 


If the PCs decide not to help Ariton, he thanks them 
and has two guards escort them out. If they agree, continue: 



"Report this information to Dulwar as soon as possi 
ble. He's a leatherworker who runs his own business in 
Dagger Falls; his shop is easy to find." 


After pausing for questions, Ariton bids the adventur 
ers luck in their endeavors. 

Ariton Delmis: 5th-level human paladin: AL LG; 
AC 0; MV 12; hp 35; THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg ld8; 
SD detect evil, +2 on all saving throws, lay on hands 
for 10 hit points once per day, cure disease once per 
week, aura of protection, turns undead as a 3rd-level 
cleric; S 17, D 12, C 12, I 11, W 15, Ch 18; XP 270. 

He wears chain mail +3 and wields a long sword +2 
and shield +1. 


8 















Dagger FalZs 

"There are two kinds of spies-the sneaky and the dead." 

- Shaerl Amcathra, Lady of Shadoivdale 

lthond's true desires are to obtain The Sword of the Dales and to find 
out why Gothyl is so interested in the weapon. To that end, he has 
instructed the town constable, Guthbert Golthammer, to capture 
the PCs and bring them in for interrogation. Guthbert, in turn, 
placed his second-in-command, Toren the half-ore, in charge of the 
mission. Toren ordered his men to watch all the entrances to the city. 

Each PC should roll an observation or alertness check upon entering Dagger 
Falls. PCs who are successful sense that the group is being watched but cannot tell 
by whom. 

The areas below are detailed on Map 2 on the inside back cover of the module. 
The PCs can freely wander the city; they are not approached by the Zhents at any 
time. As soon as the PCs deliver the information to Dulwar, go to the Ambushed! 
section on page 12. 

When the party enters Dagger Falls, read the following: 



Your first impression of Dagger Falls is that it is alive with activity. People hurry 
about, jostling one another on their way to whatever business occupies them. 
The smells of perfume, smoke, food, animal dung, and unwashed bodies hang in 
the air; the cries of merchants and tradesmen hawking their goods and services 
at the tops of their lungs competes with bleating sheep and barking dogs; and 
banners snap overhead in the wind. 

The streets are relatively clean, and most of the buildings appear well-kept 
and occupied. A few of the structures - obviously temples or shrines of some 
kind -are boarded up and abandoned. 

But something isn't quite right with the activity before you. An undercur 
rent of uneasiness flows just beneath the surface of this otherwise normal scene, 
and you suspect it has something to do with the great number of Zhent guards 
you see milling about everywhere. 


1. The Tesh forzd> Arzms 

T his dingy little inn is the meeting place for undesirables who work for the 
Zhentarim. The owner, a middle-aged man named Olav, charges exorbitant 
prices (2d4 gp) for his dirty rooms and poor food. 

Olav used to be the constable of the town. This did not earn him many friends, 
but it did keep his inn from being burned to the ground. FFe now cares little for 
either the Zhentarim-sponsored militia or the Freedom Riders. 





9 



























H. DuIar's 
LeaTheR Wa vjbs 

The smell of leather and oil permeates the air, and 
leather hides are stacked along the walls. Belts, jerkins, 
gloves, and other items are piled on shelves that 
stretch from the oil-spattered wooden floor to the 
beamed ceiling above. Behind a large table sits a thin, 
balding man well past his youth. He is carefully stitch 
ing together what appears to be a pair of suede boots. 
Even from where you stand you can tell the leather - 
and the man's work-is of exceptional quality. 

The man looks up as your shadow falls on his work. 
He smiles and says, "Hail and well met. How may I 
help you?" His arms gesture to encompass the entire 
room. "If it's leather you need, you've come to the 
right place!" 


Although Dulwar (NG hm T8) is a skilled thief, his 
first love is working with leather. After some highly prof 
itable adventures with Randal and Mestin Durmark a few 
years ago, he decided to set up shop in Dagger Falls. 

His business is quite popular with the local militia. He 
is fond of saying that he has the Zhents "eating out of my 
hand," and his boasting is more true than not. 

If the PCs come here to inform him of troop strengths, 
he quickly takes out a quill and scribbles undecipherable 
notes on some grubby parchment. Once he has all the 
information, he thanks the PCs and promises to get the 
news out as quickly as possible. 

The Zhents saw the party enter Dulwar's, and the PCs 
are attacked as they leave (proceed to the Ambushed! on 
page 13). However, if either an individual PC or the 
entire party stops by before completing the reconnais 
sance, the Zhents do not attack. 

5. The Reb Rock 

T he tavern is undergoing minor renovations thanks 
to a generous donation by an adventuring company 
that stayed here last year. Kessla (CG hef B6) is remodel 
ing the tap room and repairing some upstairs rooms dam 
aged by rowdy Zhents. 

The Red Rock has good food, a wholesome atmosphere. 


and outstanding entertainment. It is known as a gathering 
place for Freedom Riders and other citizens sympathetic 
to the rebel cause. Because of this, the place is occasion 
ally raided by Zhents (hence the necessity of repairs). 
While the party is in The Red Rock, there is a 75% 
chance that a group of Zhents looking for trouble enters 
the inn and harasses the PCs. 

Zhent Soldiers (ld6): 0-level humans; AL LE; AC 
6; MV 12; h P 3 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; 

SZ M; ML 12; XP 15 each. They wear chain mail 
armor and carry short swords. Each carries a pouch 
containing 2d6 gp. 

4. GaTebouses 

T hese stone and wood structures were originally 
added to the city wall as sentry posts from which to 
watch for enemy attacks. Unfortunately, they are now 
used by the Zhentarim to keep Dagger Falls citizens in 
line by watching their every movement in and out of the 
city. Each structure holds 35 guards; the north entrance is 
patrolled primarily by ores, and the eastern gatehouse is 
manned by human fighters. 

If the PCs approach either gate to the city, the heroes 
are questioned by the guards. This interrogation is harsh, 
and it should be immediately obvious to the characters 
that the guards are looking for people who fit the PCs' 
descriptions. If the PCs attack or make threatening moves, 
the entire gatehouse force empties into the street. The PCs 
are bound, gagged, and taken to the Constable's headquar 
ters (Area 9). 

Northern Gatehouse Ores (35): Int average; AL 
LE; AC 6 (10); MV 9 (12); HD 1; hp 5 each; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long swords); SZ M; 
ML 11; XP 35. 

Eastern Gatehouse Soldiers (35): 0-level human 
fighters; AL LE; AC 7; MV 12; hp 4 each; THACO 
20; Dmg by weapon type; SZ M; ML 11; XP 15 each. 
They wear ring mail and carry short swords and light 
crossbows. 


10 








5. The BftokeM 
Dagger. 

T his hole-in-the-wall is the afterhours hangout for 
the Zhent militia and their unsavory mercenaries. 
Its violent reputation is known throughout Dagger Falls. 

Tharwin One-eye (LE hm F7), a former Zhent tracker, 
is owner and barkeep. Fie pays scarce attention to the 
fights that break out regularly in the tap room unless 
someone starts using magic. If this happens, he tries to 
stop the spellcaster from completing a spell. 

PCs who enter the bar are immediately approached by 
a group of drunken Zhents itching for a fight. 

Mercenaries (3): 2nd-level human fighters; Int aver 
age; AL LE; AC 5; MV 12; hp 18, 15, 12 THACO 
20; #AT 2; Dmg by weapon type; SZ M; ML 12; XP 
35. Each is clad in chain mail armor and carries a 
short sword and long sword. Each has a small pouch 
containing 4dl0 gp. 


6 . Warehouses 

T he Zhentarim store military and trade goods in 
these buildings. PCs who walk between the two 
structures have a 20% chance of glimpsing slaves in the 
cages inside each building. The warehouses are patrolled 
by eight groups of 10 soldiers, and an additional 25 guards 
are on slave-watch duty inside each building. 

Z. MajdceT SquAize 


This circular marketplace is home to a variety of 
shops, and the entire area is alive with activity. Mer 
chants call out specials, brightly-colored cloth hangs 
from stalls and doorways, and wandering vendors hawk 
everything from sweetmeats to cheap jewelry. 

Despite the activity, no one pays attention to a man 
secured in the stocks along the southern wall. His 
shirt is no more than strips of bloody rags, and his back 
is reddened and blood-caked by whip lashes. His face 
is rough with sweat and beard stubble. 





11 




















































The man is too weak to speak, but if he's given water, 
food, or magical healing, he becomes strong enough to 
tell the party what happened to him. 


"Thank you," the man manages to gasp. He swallows 
with some difficulty, then continues. "I'm Calmion 
Brendis. A few days ago, a group of us tried to release 
Randal Morn from his cell in the garrison. Every one 
of my friends was killed, and the Zhents made me an 
example . . . whipped like a dog in the marketplace." 

Calmion coughs, and swallows again. "I am to die 
alongside Randal Morn. A more honorable compan 
ion in death I could not imagine." 


If the party continues to aid Calmion (NG hm T3), he 
tells the PCs that Randal is now held in the constable's 
headquarters (Area 9). 

Should the party free Calmion, there is a 75% chance 
that the guards notice and attack. If the guards attack, 
proceed to the Ambushed! section on page 12. If the 
party releases Calmion, he thanks them and departs. He 
neither accepts further help nor offers to help the group 
rescue Randal. He's had quite enough of that. 

The following shops can be found in the marketplace. 

Alrim's Magic Emporium: This small shop sells simple 
tricks and sleight-of-hand illusions such as weighted dice, 
marked cards, and bendable coins. No real magic or magi 
cal items are found here. The proprietor, Alrim, takes 
great joy in demonstrating each and every knick-knack. 

Endo's Erotic Elixers: Endo promises that his herbal 
concoctions induce a feeling of love and well-being in 
any imbiber. "A perfect gift for a loved one!" he cries from 
his stand. "Guaranteed to produce a night to remember!" 
Most of the potions are quite tasty but have no effects 
except one: There is a 10% chance that any potion pro 
duces a deadly allergic reaction. Affected PCs must make 
a successful system shock roll in order to avoid death. 

Helstaff's BaneBrews: A thoroughly disreputable 
character, Helstaff (LE hm M6) served the Zhentarim 
until he set up his own nefarious business. 

Any poisons in the Dungeon A/Laster(r) Guide are sold 


in BaneBrews, and Helstaff sells to anyone -no questions 
asked. However, Ilthond told him to look out for the PCs, 
and all 'poisons' he sells to them are worthless. 

The DM is encouraged to remind good-aligned PCs of 
the consequences of using the poison. 

Milmon's Charms and Favors: Milmon appeared on 
the scene a few years ago, selling charms he claimed 
would protect the citizens from all manner of sickness and 
disease. Needless to say, Milmon made a small fortune. 

These days his charms and amulets are more conven 
tional. Rabbit's feet, holy medallions from various faiths, 
and other pseudo-spiritual items are for sale here. 

8. The GATVz'isobJ 

T he garrison sits securely behind a high stone wall. 

The only access is through a gate on the east side, 
and about 50 guards are on duty here at any given time. 

The party is carefully watched, and it is doubtful that 
any plan to get into the garrison-no matter how inge 
nious-works. As soon as characters put any idea into 
action, guards immediately surround them. 

9 . GarrIsokj 
H&AdqUAKT&KS 

T his ramshackle building serves as both the head 
quarters for Constable Golthammer and a high- 
security prison for Randal Morn. Eventually, the PCs end 
up imprisoned here. The specifics of the structure are 
detailed in the following chapter. 

lO. ILThosid's Touo&rz 

I lthond claimed this keep, which once served as the 
constable's house, as his own. The wizard has been 
hard at work here recently, trying to decipher the magic 
of Gothyl's apprentices' skulls. 

Any attempt to sneak into the tower provokes an 
immediate response from the guards. If the PCs try to 
access the tower in any way, proceed to the Ambushed! 
section below. 


12 







Am bixshe&l 

R egardless of how cautious the PCs are, they are 
eventually surrounded by Toren's men and ordered 
to surrender. If the PCs leave Dulwar's store, attempt to 
rescue Randal, break into the garrison, leave the city, or 
step alone into the street, read the following: 


Guards seem to materialize out of nowhere and sur 
round you. Those in front of you carry crossbows, and 
you look up to see soldiers poised on rooftops. They 
are aiming short bows straight at you with what you 
know is deadly accuracy. 

A lone figure in chain mail armor steps forward. 
The man is large and burly, and his twisted, dark fea 
tures indicate an orcish heritage. 

"You are under arrest," he says. "We can do this in 
one of two ways." An evil smile stretches its way across 
his face. "The peaceful, bloodless one would be for you 
to remove your weapons and lie face-first in the dirt. I 
would suggest this as your best option." 


If the PCs separate, Toren searches for and captures the 
PCs one by one. If any PC either draws a weapon or 
attempts to flee, the guards with the short bows shoot 
first. The ground troops with the crossbows shoot only as 
a last resort. All arrows and crossbow bolts are tipped with 
sleep poison (see "Poison Arrows," below). 

Toren: 4th-level half-ore fighter; AL NE; AC 6; MV 
12; h P 33; #AT 1; THACO 19; Dmg ld8; SZ M; ML 
11; S 16, D 13, C 15, I 13, W 11, Ch 9; XP 420. He 
wears chain mail and wields a long sword +2 (coated 
with sleep poison). 

Zhent Ground Troops (40): 0-level humans; AL 
LE; AC 6; MV 12; hp 3 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld4 (light crossbow) or ld6 (short sword); SZ 
M; ML 12; XP 15 each. 

Zhent Archers (12): lst-level human fighters; AL 
LE; AC 8; MV 12; hp 6 each; THACO 20; #AT 2 or 
1; Dmg ld6 (flight arrows) or ld8 (long swords); SZ 
M; ML 14; XP 65 each. 


Poison Aruzouos 

Each time a PC is struck with a poisoned weapon, cross 
bow bolt, or arrow, he or she must save vs. poison. Success 
indicates that the PC suffers normal damage from the 
attack but is not affected by the sleep poison. 

The poison takes effect immediately after a failed save. 
The PC fights at a -1 penalty to all attack and damage rolls, 
proficiency checks, saving throws, and ability checks during 
the first round. On the second round the penalty increases 
to -3. The character is now disoriented and confused, and 
there is a 75% chance that the PC does not recognize fellow 
party members and attacks one of them. At the end of ld4 
rounds thereafter, the PC collapses into a deep sleep. 

AfTeRmaTh 

T he PCs awaken in the interrogation chamber at 
Constable Golthammer's headquarters, detailed in 
the following chapter. 

PCs who somehow managed to escape Toren's trap are 
pursued by three 3rd-level priests and 35 Zhents, all on 
horseback. When they catch the PCs, each priest casts 
hold person before the battle begins. 





4 











'What? What did you say? 




Garr)son> 


IMMl 



iijiflllii 


oao 


-Guthbert Golthammmer 


H his imposing structure was once a well-kept, comfortable military 
base, but time and disrepair have slowly taken their tolls on the 
old wooden structure. Golthammer now uses it as his home, and 
roughly 250 men also reside here. Many visiting Zhent digni 
taries stay in the headquarters during visits to Dagger Falls. 

Three rounds after the interrogation begins, the Freedom Riders attack Dagger 
Falls, and every PC has a 75% chance of hearing the combat outside. Unfortu 
nately for the characters, no rebels rescue them; the PCs must free themselves. 

The PCs wake up in the interrogation room (Area 1) with Toren (see page 13) 
glaring contemptuously over them. 

1. IwTeRRogaTioKi Room 

T he PCs have been unconscious for ld6 hours. They are groggy and weak as 
they recover from the effects of the poison. 


Your head throbs with pain, and waves of nausea wash over you. When you try 
to move, you realize that your hands and legs are chained to some large object. 
Your companions are shackled to large logs, all of which are secured to the wall 
with a series of metal bolts and plates. You can only assume you're trapped the 
same way. The room is filled with a variety of well-maintained -and often- 
used-torture instruments. 

Eight guards, along with a half-arc - obviously their leader-sit about 15 feet 
away. They are laughing and drinking as they fumble around with your 
weapons. The Sword of the Dales is not among the weapons, however. 

"You won't have use for these anymore," remarks the leader as he rises from 
the table. He ambles to you, then spits on the ground near your head. 

"If I were you, I'd say my prayers pretty quick, my friends," he says, laughing 
in a very nonhumorous way. He walks to a nearby door, turns, and says, "The 
constable wishes to speak with you." He opens the door, then disappears. 


After about five minutes, Guthbert Golthammer enters the room. 


The door opens again, and a huge bear of a man strides into the room. This 
300-pound giant thunders into the center of the chamber, swinging the Sword 
of the Dales over his head. A few more strides brings him face-to-face with you. 

He stabs the tip of the blade into the wooden log just within your reach, but 
his massive hand never releases its grip on the Sword. 


14 















If the PCs still can't figure it out, she casts a suggestion on 
Guthbert to speak the command word. 

Unfortunately, Ilthond placed a spell on the blade to 
alert him if any of its powers are used. Once the Sword 
releases the PCs, Ilthond teleports into the room. 


Guthbert Golthammer: 3rd-level human fighter; AL 
CN; AC 5; MV 12; h P 37; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld8+5 (Strength and specialization bonuses); S 
18/36, D 12, C 18, I 6, W 9, Ch 12; SZ M; ML 11; 
XP 270. A key around his neck opens the chest in 
his bedroom (Area 5). 

Guthbert has been described by many as a "glorious 
incompetent." He has trouble carrying on an intelligent 
conversation and is constantly distracted. 

Guthbert's line of questioning is foggy and incoherent, 
and it should take the characters no time to figure out 
that the man has no brain. 

The first time any PC speaks, continue: 


Guthbert Golthammer has no idea what is happening 
to him. He felt shocks through his hand three times when 
he was interrogating the PCs, but the worst shock came 
when Ilthond appeared. 

The eight guards charge the PCs as Golthammer draws 
his own blade, leaving the Sword on the floor. 


Guthbert demands to know all sorts of useless informa 
tion from the PCs, most of it trivia about themselves and 
their mission. Guthbert doesn't give the PCs time to fin 
ish before he throws another senseless question at them. 

The PCs should be able to easily trick Guthbert into 
calling upon the Sword's power to part chains and mana 
cles. If the PCs don't remember the magic word, Gothyl 
sends a whispering wind that speaks the word "merrydale." 


As the battle begins, the skulls hover and float in the 
air. Their eye sockets fill with a blood-red fire, and 
ghastly voices echo throughout the room: 

Embrace the shadow, darkness falls, 

Hail to Gothyl, join her legions in these halls. 

The PCs can dive for their weapons and attack in the 
same round. The rest of their equipment is in the War 
Room (Area 6). 


"Aha, I knew you were into this adventuring thing for 
the money!" Guthbert yells. "Quit playing games with 
me! What do you really want?" Growling and switch 
ing the Sword to his other hand, he makes a fist. 
"What is this tingling?" he asks no one in particular, 
staring in alarm at his hairy, hammy fist. 


"Ah, yes, of course," huffs the constable, plucking the 
Sword from the wood. "Tell me what powers this sword 
has -each and every one!" he roars, pacing back and 
forth in front of the log. He glares at each of you in 
turn, poking your chests with a grubby finger. 


Guthbert interrupts the first PC who responds. 


The wizard you fought in Spiderhaunt appears with a 
pop of magical energy. Glaring out across the room, his 
face contorts and twists with rage. His hands tighten 
on the skulls he holds. 

"Golthammer, you fool!" Ilthond roars. "I ordered 
you to kill these rebels!" With a lightning movement 
he drops the skulls and grabs for the Sword. 

Guthbert's hand jerks away as if struck by an elec 
tric shock, and the Sword clatters to the floor. Howling 
in pain, the huge man backs away from Ilthond. 

A misty form immediately hisses from the Sword. A 
shadowy image emerges from the mist, but its features 
are nothing like those of Hedistrin, the Sword spirit 
you met before. 

Stringy black hair hangs limply around her shoul 
ders, and her skin is a sickly yellow-green. Pinpoints of 
crimson fire dance in her eyes as her clawed hands 
reach out for Ilthond. 

"Noooooo! ! !" the wizard cries, stumbling backward. 
Like a snake striking its prey, the spirit grabs him 
around the throat. 


"I'm Constable Guthbert Golthammer, you rebel 
scum. I've got questions for ya," he says, standing up 
straighter. Then, strangely, he gazes at the far wall and 
mutters, "Constable Guthbert Golthammer, yeah." 
His eyes glaze over, then they snap to focus and he 
shakes his head. "Questions for ya!" he thunders. 


15 
















Golthammer either goes after anyone who grabs the 
Sword or attacks the most powerful-looking fighter. The 
rest of the guards charge blindly forward. 

Ilthond; 7th-level wizard: AL NE; AC 2; MV 12; hp 

23; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type; S 9, D 9, 

C 12, I 17, W 16, Ch 8; XP 3,000; bracers of defense AC 
2, ring of telekinesis (100 lb. weight), dagger +2, 17 darts 
+2; teleport ring (detailed on page 29), wand of lightning 
(22 charges). 

Spells: 1st level: feather fall, magic missile, shield, 
shocking grasp. 2nd level: inalisibility, mirror image, 
web. 3rd level: Melfs minute meteors, protection from 
normal missiles. 4th level: stoneskin (already cast; pro 
tects Ilthond from five attacks). 

Gothyl, Arch-shadow: Int supra; AL CE; AC 6; MV 
9; W18; hp 47 (before transformation), 62 (after 
transformation); THACO 12; #AT 0; Dmg ld4+l; 

SA energy drain; SD the spell non-detection in effect 
whenever she talks to the PCs, magical weapons 
required to hit; XP 4,500. 

Spells: 1st level: darkness, magic missile, shield, shocking 
grasp, wall of fog. 2nd level: invisibility, Melfs acid arrow, 
mirror image, scare, web. 3rd level: flame arroiv, hold per 
son, lightning bolt, non-detection. 4th level: E vard's black 
tentacles, fire shield, ice storm, minor globe of invulnerabil- 
iti/, stoneskin. 5th level: Bigby's interposing hand, cloud- 
kill, cone of cold, magic jar, wall of force. 6th level: 
anti-magic shell, death spell, fish to stone. 7th level: finger 
of death, power word stun, teleport without error. 8th 
level: Bigby's clenched fist, symbol. 9th level: time stop. 

Zhent Guards (8): lst-level human fighters; AL LE; 
AC 5; MV 12; hp 5 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld8; SZ M; ML 14; XP 65 each. They each wear 
chain mail and carry long swords. 

If a PC touches a skull: Any character who touches a 
skull is immediately attacked with magic similar to that of 
magic jar. The PC must roll a successful saving throw vs. 
spell at +2 or become possessed by one of Gothyl's 
trapped apprentices. 

Characters who fail the save fight a losing battle for 
ld4 rounds. During this time, the PC can physically 


attack the skull with a -2 penalty on attack rolls. If the 
skull is destroyed, the character under attack is stunned 
for one round. Each skull is AC 5 and has 12 hit points. 

If a PC both fails the saving throw and fails to destroy 
the skull, his or her body becomes possessed by the spirit 
of the evil apprentice. The character's spirit becomes 
trapped within the skull. The possessed PC immediately 
attacks the nearest Zhent. After the Zhents are finished 
off, the possessed PC turns on fellow PCs. 

Since it is Gothyl's intention to possess all the PCs, 
she won't let the characters kill one another; any nonpos- 
sessed PCs who is attacked falls unconscious when he or 
she reaches 0 hit points. This lasts as long as any skulls 
containing spirits remain intact. 

Possessed creatures are distinguishable from non-pos- 
sessed creatures by their glowing red eyes and occasional 
facial tic. After 24 hours, the red eyes fade, but the physi 
cal tic remains for ld4 months. 

If a skull is destroyed while a victim is possessed: 
The possessed character immediately makes a system 
shock roll if the skull containing his or her original spirit 
is destroyed. If successful, the PCs spirit is restored to his 
or her body, and the PC is struck unconscious for ld4 
turns. If the system shock fails, both the spirit of the 
apprentice and the character are killed. 

The spirit of the evil apprentice bonds with its new 
body after one day. If the skull is destroyed more than 24 
hours after the PC's body is possessed, that character's 
spirit is destroyed as well. A wish or similar magic can 
return the PCs spirit to the appropriate body and van 
quish the apprentice forever. 

Things DonT Look Too Good 

If the party is losing, the DM should have ld6 Zhents 
touch the skulls. Any Zhent who does this automatically 
becomes possessed. Possessed soldiers turn on other 
guards, since Gothyl wants to exact her revenge on the 
Zhents and Ilthond. 

If the party is making quick work of the guards and 
Guthbert, ldlO additional guards arrive and attack. If the 
PCs attack Gothyl, she uses whatever means necessary to 
defeat them. She may cast stun on the first fighter to 
attack her, or she might cast minor globe of invulnerability 
to shield her against a spell attack. She doesn't play with 
them for long, however. If the PCs continue to attack her. 


16 






she kills them one by one. The PCs should soon realize 
that she is more than a match for them. 

As the PCs do battle, read the following: 


Ilthond is hunched over, gasping for breath as his near- 
skeletal hands clutch a nearby table. The shadowy fig 
ure makes a final lunge for Ilthond, her hands 
tightening on his throat. 

"Die, witch!" gurgles the wizard. His words are 
scarcely out of his mouth before his eyes widen in sur 
prise and his body slumps to the floor. "Randal Morn 
was not worth this much trouble," he gasps as a final, 
ragged breath escapes from his body. 

The spirit begins to glow brighter and brighter, and 
you hear Hedistrin's voice echoing in the chamber. 

"Yes, yes!!! I have achieved my goal!" she cries. 
Slowly, she fades out of existence. 


Gothyl has ascended to demi-shade status. Characters 
do not see her again unless they attempt to destroy the 
Sword. If they do, she immediately appears. 


When characters charge out of the room, read the fol 
lowing: 


Just as you thought you'd seen every Zhent who ever 
another group of them comes running in your 
direction as your party spills into the hallway. 


There are 2d4 Zhents running around in the hall; PCs 
should easily defeat these soldiers. Most of the guards run 
when they see both Ilthond and Guthbert lying dead in 
the interrogation chamber. 

jL. Supply Room 

T his vast chamber contains normal military supplies 
and equipment. Arms and armor, iron rations, 
polearms, and other military equipment fill the room. 
Everything is in good condition and ready to use. 




17 










































































































5. Reception 

n engraved bronze plaque is attached to the door of 
this room. It reads: "Guthbert Golthammer, Con 
stable." The door is unlocked. 


A large desk occupies the northeastern corner of this 
office. A heavy oak door in the east wall is closed. A 
threadbare couch sits in the southeast corner. 

The desk looks neglected -papers are scattered 
haphazardly across the desk and ink from an over 
turned inkwell has ruined many of the documents. 


Most of the documents detail such mundane informa 
tion as supplies and taxes collected. A PC who inspects 
the papers more closely finds some things of interest. 

One document details an agreement between the 
Shattered Stone ores and the Zhentarim to destroy Dag 
ger Falls. The ores' payment is 2,000 gp plus plundering 
privileges. The contract is quite old but appears to be 
binding. Apparently, the Zhentarim plan to summon the 
ores to descend upon Dagger Falls as their soldiers retreat. 

A thick ledger contains the names and payoff amounts 
of Zhentarim contacts within Dagger Falls. Although it 
looks worn, many of the names could prove valuable. 
These names should be provided by the DM. 

Inside the desk is a secret compartment that contains a 
ruby worth 100 gp. 

A. The Constable's 
Office 

Lush red carpet on the floor pads each step. An 
immense, ornately carved oak desk is nestled against 
an eastern window and fills most of that part of the 
room. Two plush chairs sit in front of the desk. 

Two bookshelves completely cover the north wall. 
They contain a variety of leather-bound books, scrolls, 
and sheafs of parchment. Everything is covered with a 
thick layer of dust. 


All of the books are boring technical manuals on war 
fare strategy and troop deployments. 

The desk drawers are locked but can be easily picked 


on a roll of 1 or 2 on a d6. The top two drawers contain 
inkwells, quills, and parchment. The bottom drawer holds 
a large sack filled with rubies, emeralds, and sapphires 
worth a total of 2,000 gp. 

A secret compartment is located along the southern 
wall. Anyone who presses the latch to the compartment 
trips a blade trap; any PC within 6 feet of the trap must 
roll a successful save vs. paralyzation or be hit with 2d6 
points of damage. 

Inside is a cache of magical items that Guthbert col 
lected for Ilthond: bracers of defense AC 7, scroll of four 
mage spells (armor, alarm, magic missile, sleep), mace +1, 
short sword +1, and a suit of ring mail +2. In a leather 
pouch is a key that opens the door to the jail (Area 8). 

5. GuthbenTs 
Bebtioom 

The wooden floor creaks and groans as you make your 
way across the room. A massive bed with a feather 
mattress sits in the northeast corner. A small wooden 
chest lies at its foot. 

Near the door in the south wall stands a suit of 
plate mail armor on a metal rack. A huge two-handed 
sword hangs above a dresser on the southwestern wall. 


The two-handed sword on the wall is normal, and the 
dresser contains nothing but normal clothing. The chest 
at the foot of the bed is locked. Inside are some winter 
clothes piled on top of a coffer filled with 425 gp, two 
potions of extra-healing, and a helm of underwater action. 

6. War Room 


A massive oak table and eight chairs fill the room. The 
walls are covered with tattered maps and diagrams, and 
papers and maps are scattered on the table. 

A leather satchel filled with scrolls sits in the south 
east comer, and bags are piled in the northeast comer. 

All of the scrolls are useless. The bags contain all the 
PCs' belongings. When they search the bags, they find 
only the gold is gone; all other possessions (including 
magical items and weapons) are still there. 



18 














7. B&KK&cks 


From the looks of the rumpled beds and the strewn 
clothing and personal items, it's clear that whoever 
was in here left in a hurry. The door in the north wall 
stands open. 


The door in the hallway leading east to the outside is 
open. If anyone goes through the door, read the following: 


Sounds of loud, raucous fighting come from the 
streets. Directly in front of you stands a small group of 
four guards, apparently the only ones ordered to 
remain with the headquarters when the Freedom Rid 
ers attacked the city. 

Before you have a chance to react, they attack. 


The Zhents fight until two of them are killed. The 
other two then throw down their swords and surrender. 

Zhent Guards (4): lst-level human fighters; AL LE; 
AC 5; MV 12; h P 5 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld8; SZ M; ML 11; XP 65 each. They wear chain 
mail and wield long swords. 

8. Mil 

T he metal door to this room is locked, and the key is 
located in the Constable's office (Area 4). 


The door opens to reveal a 10-foot-wide walkway 
stretching between four jail cells. A movement on the 
western wall catches your eye -a section of the wall is 
slowly pivoting closed. You glimpse three guards drag 
ging another man through the secret door. The wall 
section glides into place with an audible click, and the 
door seems to dissolve and disappear into the stone. 

"They're taking Randal Morn!" cries a prisoner. 


Characters must spend ld4 rounds looking for the 
mechanism that opens the one-way secret door. Once 
they open it, proceed to The Chase section below. 

The occupant of the cell, Koril Benshay, is a merchant 


and rebel sympathizer. Captain Mestin told the PCs about 
him when they met her along the road (see page 7). The 
key that opened the door does not open the cells, so the 
PCs must break down the cell door to release Koril. Once 
freed, he asks for a weapon and joins the general fray out 
side. He doesn't know where the guards took Randal. 

9. Officer's Mess 


This room is filled with long rows of tables and 
benches. The smell of food wafts in the air, and stains 
cover most of the tables. No one is here. 


10. KiTch&io 

T he only people here are the cooks and helpers, and 
they immediately surrender when they see the PCs. 
They're all innocent Dagger Falls citizens who work for 
the Zhents under honest circumstances. 

The Chase 

T he Freedom Riders battled their way into the city, 
and the chaos of combat fills Dagger Falls. The DM 
should alter the locations of the following encounters and 
the narrative to reflect the PCs reactions to the battle. 

Flight Frzor o the Compound 

The PCs catch sight of the wagon when they either open 
the secret door in the jail or run around the building. 


Arrows, sling stones, and crossbow bolts fill the air, 
and the rumbling wheels of a wagon rise over the 
sounds of battle. A few hundred feet away, three Zhent 
soldiers driving a rickety wagon rush out the opened 
gate of the Zhent compound. The crowds of people 
and soldiers in the streets slow the wagon's progress, 
but it manages to veer south toward the marketplace. 

You glimpse a familiar form in the back of the 
wagon-Randal Morn. 

A squad of six Zhent guards breaks out of the chaos 
in the street and rushes toward you. Apparently, they 
have been watching for your group. 




19 
















There is a 10% chance per round that a random PC in 
the street gets hit by a projectile zinging through the mar 
ketplace. 

Zhent Guards (6): lst-level human fighters; AL LE; 
AC 7; MV 12; hp 8, 7(*2), 6, 5, 3; THACO 20; #AT 
1; Dmg by weapon type; SZ M: ML 12; XP 15 each. 
They wear ring mail and carry short swords and light 
crossbows. 

To MAizk&T, To MarJcoT 

When the PCs defeat the guards, read the following: 


The sound is deafening. Merchants are hastily trying to 
get their goods out of harm's way as women scream and 
children cry. Occasionally an overloaded wagon topples 
over, injuring anyone unlucky enough to be near it. 

The wagon carrying Randal is stuck, unmoving, in 
the throng. The driver is swinging his sword and 
screaming at people who are blocking the way as the 
other soldiers punch and kick whomever is closest to 
them. The one who guards Randal has the heel of his 
boot on the rebel leader's back. 


It takes five rounds for the party to reach the wagon. 
The first round after the party begins the chase, archers 
open up from the rooftops. They first aim for innocent 
bystanders near individual PCs, hoping to draw the char 
acters' attention away from the wagon. 

If the PCs continue toward Randal, the archers shoot 
at them directly. Just as the PCs get within grabbing range 
of the wagon, it lurches forward. 

Zhent Archers (8): 2nd-level human fighters; AL 
LE; AC 8; MV 12; h P 5 each; THACO 19; #AT 2 or 
1; Dmg ld6 (flight arrows) or ld8 (long swords); SZ 
M; ML 14; XP 65 each. 

EN<b of the Uwe 

y the time the PCs get away from the archers, the 
wagon is only slightly ahead of them. Each PC has 
an 80% chance of grabbing the wagon; any character who 
does so must roll a climbing proficiency check at -3 to 
determine whether he or she gets into the wagon. 


The open gate of Dagger Falls looms before you, and 
the wagon carrying Randal Mom has picked up speed. 

Just as the wagon turns toward the gate, a sharp 
crack of splintering wood fills the air. One of the front 
wheels flies off and smashes into a thousand pieces, 
and the wagon careens through the crowd. 

The Zhents are tossed out into the street. One does 
not get up, but the remaining two rise shakily to their 
feet and face your party. 


Zhent Kidnappers (2): 3rd-level human fighters; AL 
LE; AC 4; MV 12; h P 23 (29), 20 (33); THACO 19; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld8; SZ M; ML 11, XP 120. Each wears 
chain mail and carries a shield and long sword. 

Randal Morn: 7th-level human fighter, 6th-level 
thief; AL NG; AC 7; MV 12; hp 19 (33); THACO 
14; #AT 3/2; Dmg by weapon type; S 16, D 17, C 13, 

I 12, W 10, CH 15; SZ M; ML 14; XP 500. 

The Zhents immediately flee through the main gates. 
The haystack onto which Randal landed is in a corner of 
the compound, removed from the chaos of battle. Once 
the characters discover Randal, read the following: 


A weak smile crosses Randal's face as he says, "It seems 
we are well met in the middle of battle!" He sits up in 
the hay and rubs his head. 

Suddenly his eyes widen and he jumps to his feet. 
"Does anyone have a sword or armor I can use?" he 
asks, just as an entire squad of Freedom Riders con 
verges on your group. 


Randal Morn has no interest in the Sword of the Dales 
and doesn't accept it if a PC offers it to him. He feels 
there's something very wrong with the weapon. "Look at 
the mess it's already gotten me into," he'll remark. 

By now it's clear that the Freedom Riders won the bat 
tle. The PCs, along with Randal, are escorted to a house 
near the Zhent barracks that has been converted into a 
makeshift Freedom Rider headquarters. 

If the PCs choose to help Randal Morn reclaim Dagger 
Falls -thereby assuring themselves of the reward that 
Lhaeo promised them -proceed to the next chapter. 



20 












The BgbT Port 
Daggett Falls 

Don't worry about the about weapons an enemy hits you with. Beware of the surprises. 

- Old Dagger Falls saying 

ith the eastern entrance secured, the Freedom Riders imme 
diately moved toward the barracks in an effort to rescue 
Randal Morn. Captain Ariton Delmis led the charge to the 
barracks himself, sending Captain Mestin to secure the 
northern parts of the city. Moving swiftly to the northern 
entrance, they quickly overpowered a large troop of ores stationed at the Red Rock 
Tavern. Unfortunately, the ores managed to sound the alarm before they were 
trounced, alerting the Shattered Stone ores to move on the town. 

ScueeT VicTorcy? 

I t takes ld6 rounds for the PCs to reach the Freedom Rider headquarters with 
Randal and the rebels. During this time, they have a 40% chance per round of 
being attacked by roving bands of Zhents or ores, but these battles should be short 
and swift. As soon as the group reaches the headquarters, read the following: 



The Zhent compound is alive with crackling flames. Bodies of Zhent warriors 
lie scattered like limp rag dolls, and the smell of death and blood is sickening. 
You see a small group of Zhents tied together by a length of sturdy rope and 
being led away by five or six Freedom riders. As you walking along, more Free 
dom Riders pour through the gates of the compound. 

Captain Ariton rides through the soldiers toward your group. "Randal!" he 
cries, and sends his horse into a gallop. The cry of "Randal Mom" is quickly 
picked up by the troops as more than 30 Riders follow Ariton. 

A swarm of bodies rush forward and strong arms lift you and your compan 
ions into the air. By now the shouts of "Randal, Randal" are mixed with the 
cries of "Here they are -the heroes of Dagger Falls!" People slap you on the 
back and shake your hand as you're carried into the Freedom Riders' command 
post just inside the compound gate. 


Randal and the PCs are taken inside the headquarters to rest and relax. For the 
next hour or two, the characters are bandaged and fed. All PCs are offered healing, 
and anyone who accepts recovers 2d6 hit points. 

During this time, rebel scouts rush in, reporting to Randal on the status of the 





21 












ongoing battles. The DM can create any number of sce 
narios here, but each piece of good news should be fol 
lowed with bad news. 

One scout reports that there is no sign that the Zhen- 
tarim had any advance warning of the Freedom Rider 
attack on Dagger Falls, and so far no Zhentarim reinforce 
ments have been sighted. Unfortunately, the Shattered 
Stone ores are massing for an attack in the Border Forest. 
Estimates now place their numbers at nearly 300. 

ITs NoT Oven. Yet- 

s the reports become more dire, Randal approaches 
the PCs. Settling into a chair, he addresses them: 


"I am almost ashamed to ask for your assistance again," 
begins Randal, "but there are areas of Dagger Falls that 
could benefit from your particular skills. Would you be 
willing to join us in battle for a second time?" 

The PCs can decide whether to return to battle or to 
stay out of it. If anyone declines to help, Randal explains 
that he understands and does not pressure the PC. Read 
the following to those who agree to help: 


"There are two hot spots in the city," Randal begins. 
"The first is in the eastern section, near the main gate. 
Apparently, a group of about 20 off-duty Zhent soldiers 
were drinking at the Broken Dagger when the Free 
dom Riders attacked that section of town. They put up 
quite a fight and are still there. A number of archers 
are staked out on the roof and are attacking our troops 
with flaming arrows. Most of the northern and south 
ern sections of the streets are on fire. Also, the idiot 
Toren is lurking around there somewhere." 

Randal is silent for a moment, then continues. 
"The second problem is not quite as tricky. A large 
force of Zhents guards-some of them reported to be 
less bloodthirsty than their companions-are holed up 
in a stone warehouse in the southeastern section of 
town. They need to be cleaned out." 


After the PCs have had a chance to digest this infor 
mation, read the following: 


Randal smiles wanly. "I can promise you a land grant 
in Dagger Falls as well as some type of financial reward 
if you defeat the Zhents." He paces the room for a 
moment, then returns to you. "I also guarantee that, 
should you not survive, your families will be provided 
for. But that won't happen, right?" Randal chuckles. 

"Your actions will be upheld as lawful, and you will 
not be held responsible for any damages you cause in 
the performance of these tasks. What say you?' 


If the PCs decide to tackle the Zhents at the Broken 
Dagger, go to The Broken Dagger section below. If they 
choose to clean out the warehouse, proceed to The Ware 
house on page 23. 

Randal sends 2d6 Freedom Riders with the PCs. The 
DM should play them as expendable NPCs, although they 
do not agree to any obviously suicidal plans. 

The BKokesj Dagger 

s the PCs approach the Broken Dagger, they recog 
nize the area as the place where they were attacked 
by archers during the wagon chase. When the party nears 
the tavern, read the following: 


Zhent and Freedom Rider bodies, broken and twisted 
in odd, unnatural angles, litter the area. The fires 
burning at both ends of the street radiate tremendous 
heat even at this distance, and the air is filled with 
smoke, ash, and debris. Although the flames are huge, 
after a moment you realize they are not spreading. 

The Broken Dagger is a stone and brick building 
with a wooden roof. Archers can be seen along the 
roof, their bows pointing into the street. 


Four of the archers are protected by 50% cover (-4 
bonus to AC), and two have 75% cover (-7 to AC). The 
Freedom Riders tried burning the tavern down, but the 
Zhents were able to put out any burning arrows that hit 
the roof. All 20 Zhent guards are inside the tavern, along 
with Toren. 

If the PCs come up with a creative solution for elimi 
nating the guards, it should be allowed to succeed. 




22 














Zhent Ground Troops (20): 0-level humans; AL 
LE; AC 6; MV 12; h P 5 each; THACO 20; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6; SZ M; ML 12; XP 35 each. They wear ring 
mail and carry shields and short swords. 2d6 of them 
have pouches containing ldl2 gp. 

Zhent Archers (6): lst-level human fighters; AL LE; 
AC 8; MV 12; h P 6 each; THACO 20; #AT 2 or 1; 
Dmg ld6 (flight arrows) or ld8 (long swords); SZ M; 
ML 14; XP 65 each. 

Toren: 4th-level half-ore fighter; AL NE; AC 4; MV 
12; h P 14 (33); #AT 3/2; Dmg ld8; S 16, D 13, C 15, I 
13, W 11, Ch 9; SZ M; ML 14; XP 420. He wears 
chain mail and carries a shield and long sword +2. 

If the PCs find themselves fighting Toren, it should be 
a close fight between the half-ore and the heroes, but the 
party should win. 

The Warehouse 

s characters approach the large warehouse, read the 
following: 


Bodies, both Zhent and Dalesman, carpet the area 
around the warehouse. Captain Durmark notices you 
and approaches. "Good to see you," she says wearily. 
She is covered with dirt, blood, and ash, and her face 
drags with exhaustion. "I have a squad of around 30 
Freedom Riders here, but these Zhent rats are proving 
harder to trap than we expected." 

Mestin looks toward the building and continues. 
"Torching the warehouse would most likely flush the 
Zhents out, but Randal gave me strict orders not to 
bum the building." she explains. "We could really use 
the military supplies that are stored in there." 

A rebel appears at Mestin's elbow and hands her a 
skin of water. She tilts her head back and gulps it, then 
wipes her mouth. "There's a lot of food in there, too, 
and we need that more than the weapons. If Dagger 
Falls is besieged by ores, the food could prove to be 
quite valuable." 

What Mestin doesn't know is that the Zhents are con 
sidering surrender. The ranking officer, sergeant Wilton 


Mortaire, knows that the rebels need the contents of the 
warehouse. He is also aware that the Zhent wizards would 
never negotiate for the release of a few defeated guards. 

As the PCs arrive, a white flag is shoved through the 
door of the warehouse. Glancing cautiously outside, Mor 
taire calls out that he wishes to negotiate. 

Sergeant Wilton Mortaire: 2nd-level human fighter; 
AL CE; AC 4; MV 12; h P 14; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld8; S 17, D 12, C 16, I 13, W 10, Ch 13; SZ 
M; ML 11, XP 120. He wears chain mail and carries 
a long sword. 

Zhent Ground Troops (50): 0 -level human fighters; 
AL CE; AC 6; MV 12; h P 5 each; THACO 20; #AT 
1; Dmg ld6; SZ M; ML 12; XP 35 each. They wear 
ring mail and carry short swords. 

If the PCs agree to negotiate. Captain Durmark 
approaches the warehouse with them. As the highest- 
ranking member of Randal's forces, she must agree 
with any truce accord. Chairs are set up outside the 
warehouse. 


A tall man emerges from the warehouse and seats 
himself on the empty chair in front of you. Behind 
him, you see a few Zhent soldiers standing warily in 
the warehouse doorway. 

"I am Wilton Mortaire, leader of the Zhents 
inside." Mortaire looks haggard and dirty, but his eyes 
gleam with a fierce determination. He seems uncom 
fortable but calm. Whatever decisions he's come to, 
he appears willing to live -or die-by them. 

"You seem a little surprised that I wanted to negoti 
ate," he begins, clenching his hands before him. "In 
all honesty, I'm surprised that you'd listen." 

He licks his lips nervously and continues. "I request 
the following: 

"We are to be released and allowed to go where we 
will. In return, we agree not to turn and attack Dagger 
Falls once we are released." 


Characters with observation proficiency detect a great 
deal of anger behind the man's words; anger directed 
toward Zhentil Keep. He continues: 





23 










"Second, there are to be no charges brought against 
any member of this group for actions during our tour 
here." He locks a cold gaze upon Captain Durmark. 

"Third," he goes on, "We are to be allowed to keep 
our armor and weapons so we can defend ourselves 
during our return journey. Finally, we are to be pro 
vided one week's worth of rations for each soldier. 

He looks at Mestin and clears his throat. "If you 
give me your word as an officer, I will honor the terms 
of my agreement. If you do not agree to this," he turns 
and looks at his compatriots in the warehouse, "we 
will burn this building and everything in it." 


Mortaire is willing to bend on the third option if the 
Freedom Riders agree to provide him with some kind of 
protection. The Zhent leader is also willing to give up the 
pardons -except the one for himself, that is. He does not 
agree to any other counteroffers unless he's assured of this. 

If he and the PCs come to a suitable agreement, the 
situation ends peaceably and each PC gains a 500 experi 
ence point bonus. If no agreement is reached, the Zhents 


immediately set the building on fire and perish in the 
flames. The Freedom Riders have only a 20% chance of 
putting out the flames, but even if they do, the contents 
of the warehouse are ruined. 

One ATTack/ 

I t should be nearing evening when the PCs complete 
their missions. Any wounds the PCs sustained are 
healed by priests from the Freedom Riders. The party is 
given food and shown into a quiet back room to rest. 


You awaken to the sound of drums echoing through 
the night. Not again, you think wearily as the chaos 
outside grows louder. 

Randal immediately calls the PCs to the main room of 
the headquarters. When they reach him, they see he is in 
full armor, prepared for battle. He waits until a large group 
of Freedom Riders encircles him, then he speaks. 



24 


























































"Scouts report that the Shattered Stone ores are con 
verging en masse about a mile outside of town," he 
begins. "The ore chief and his bodyguards have 
erected a large tent to serve as a command post. I 
believe it's in our best interests if we eliminate him." 

He turns to a Freedom Rider you've never seen and 
says, "Jurab, take 20 Riders and fortify the main gate. 
The rest of you, return to your posts and await further 
orders from me. They will undoubtedly come quickly, 
so be ready to move." 

He turns to your party and smiles. "I've saved the 
best mission for you. I need you to attack the chief. He 
has but a few guards protecting him, so the biggest 
challenge is to approach him undetected." 


If the PCs agree, continue: 


"Kiksa (CG em B6), one of my most trusted soldiers, 
will take you to an old shack that sits just north of The 
Red Rock tavern." Randal gestures to the remaining 
soldiers, and a stern-faced man of about 45 steps for 
ward. He nods tersely to you as Randal continues. 
"Wait until the ores attack the city, then circle around 
behind their encampment. The ore chieftain will most 
likely be there." 


The PCs have just enough time to station themselves 
in the shack when all hell breaks loose. 


The drum beats finally stop, and you estimate that it's 
about 2 a.m. An eerie silence descends upon your ears; 
even nighttime insects seem to be holding their 
breath, waiting. 

Suddenly, ores burst from the darkness and rush the 
city wall. Many fall before an onslaught of Freedom 
Rider arrows, but still they press forward. 

The night sky is illuminated by a large globe of fire 
hurling toward the city. As it strikes, flames leap all 
around, and horrible screams can be heard from the 
defenders. 


Just as the pitch is released, the PCs see the outline of 
a catapult in the distance. The heroes must now choose 
whether to destroy the catapult or slay the chief. 

If the PCs decide to destroy the catapult first, it fires 


two more shots before they get to it. The catapult is the 
biggest threat to the safety of Dagger Falls, and each PC 
receives a 100 experience points bonus if they attack it 
first. The fiery pitch balls automatically hit the city; the 
DM can determine the exact locations. 

The PCs reach the catapult just as a third volley soars 
into the city. The battle for control of the catapult should 
be close but by no means certain; the PCs should not 
automatically survive. 

If the group decides to go after the ore king first, the 
catapult releases ldlO volleys toward the town. 

Ore Catapult Caretakers (6): Int average; AL LE; 

AC 8; MV 9; HD 1; hp 3 each; THACO 19; #AT 1; 

Dmg ld6; SZ M; ML 11; XP 15 each. They all wear 

leather jerkins and carry short swords. 

The Chief Tain 

s the PCs approach the clearing, each has a 25% 
chance of tripping over a wire that runs between 
the base of two trees. If this occurs, any chance of surprise 
is ruined and the ores attack. Any rogue character who is 
searching for traps has a +2 bonus on a find traps roll. 

If the characters manage to avoid detection and get to 
the camp, read the following: 


It seems that you could walk right into camp and not 
be noticed. Chaos reigns in the camp: A large, well- 
dressed ore is perched atop a large rock, yelling and 
grunting orders to frenzied ore soldiers. He's a perfect 
target for an arrow, you think, though it's doubtful that a 
single arrow could kill him. Three ores -obviously body- 
guards-look toward the glow of fire in the city. 


Chief Gulab of the Shattered Stone Ores: Int high; 
AL LE; AC 4; MV 12; HD 4; h P 23; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld6; SZ M; ML 14; XP 175. He wears 
chain mail and carries a shield and short sword. A 
bag on his belt contains a rat pelt, 35 gp, and a key. 

Bodyguards (3): Int average; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; 
HD 1; hp 4 each; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SZ 
M; ML 11; XP 15 each. All three carry short swords. 

- " 




25 














If the party swept through the ores at the catapult, this 
battle should underscore the deadliness of ore soldiers. If 
the party is badly injured, the DM may want to make the 
odds easier by eliminating the bodyguards. 

If the PCs defeat the ores and explore the leader's tent, 
read the following: 


You smell the tent before you see it. When you do 
enter, you see rotting food and smell sweat-soaked 
clothing and armor. Other indistinguishable smells 
make it almost impossible to breathe. The lights from 
outside cast a filtered glow inside the tent, and you see 
piles of clothing and other objects scattered on top of 
an ornately carved camp bed. At the foot of the bed is 
a beautifully worked metal chest with a large lock. 


The key to the chest is in the pouch on the chief's 
belt. If the PCs manage to open the lock, they find 6,750 
gp, 2,200 sp, two potions of extra healing, a potion of sweet- 
ivater, a scroll of three wizard spells (DM's choice), leather 
armor +1, and a pair of boots of elvenkid. Also inside the 
chest is a ledger page listing these items; apparently this is 
the booty payment from the Zhents for the assault. 

When the PCs return to the city, read the following: 


The brassy calls of trumpets break through the sounds 
of battle as the night sky is momentarily illuminated 
by streaking balls of light. Silhouetted against the 
bursts of light is a force of horsemen charging forward 
across the bridge to the south. 

A banner bearing the symbol of Shadowdale flies 
over these troops. With a crash, the mounted riders 
charge headlong into the groups of ores gathered out 
side the walls. Hundreds of Shadowdale troops rush 
forward to engage the gathered horde. 

"Long live Randal Morn and Lord Mourngrym!" 
cry the new defenders of Dagger Falls before their 
voices are lost in battle. Almost immediately, the 
main gates open and the Freedom Riders surge forth to 
join in the fray. The ores turn and run for their lives. 

If any of the heroes try to face down the onrushing 
ores, they are cut to ribbons. At the very least, the PC 
should be knocked unconscious and stripped of a few key 
belongings (but not the Sword of the Dales). 


When the battle ends, the Freedom Riders joyously 
revel until dawn. Toward noon, the PCs should try to see 
Randal, but he is meeting with Khelben Blackstaff and 
Elminster concerning the events of the last few days. 
Since he is unavailable, Ariton informs the characters 
that they are to be Randal's guests at a banquet this 
evening. He recommends sleep. 

If the PCs decide not to sleep, they can explore the 
city. An armed escort accompanies them, since Elminster 
is concerned about Zhent reprisals. 

The damage to city is quite extensive. The Teshford 
Arms and Dulwar's suffered only light fire damage, while 
The Red Rock was torched as the ores fled. Kessla, the 
proprietor, is quite gloomy and disheartened. The PCs 
find her sifting through the rubble of her place. 

If the characters have extra money, they should be 
gently nudged to help out this kind lady. She is ecstatic, 
promising them free room and board whenever they visit 
Dagger Falls. 

Still, many residents are pitching in to help one 
another, and the damage to the city should undoubtedly 
be repaired soon. 

The BawqueT 

t around eight that evening, the PCs are taken to 
the old Garrison Headquarters. The atmosphere of 
the festivities is left to the DM's imagination, but the PCs 
are to be honored for their accomplishments. 

When Khelben stands and announces that the ban 
quet is over, Elminster approaches the PCs and asks them 
to stay. When everyone has left, read the following: 


The renowned Elminster smiles warmly at your group. 
He motions you to gather around the table where 
Randal sits. The leader of the Freedom Riders is 
resplendent in a velvet doublet, and the gold circlet 
around his brow gives him a regal appearance. 

"My friends," he says, "I owe you much more than 
these mere tokens can express. You risked your lives to 
save my own, and I am forever grateful." 

A guard hands Randal a large, bulging leather 
satchel. He pulls out scrolls and full pouches and 
places them on the table. "I promised you a reward," 
he says. "I hope you are pleased with it." 



26 












The scrolls are the land grants. Each grant includes 50 
acres of land, materials to build a house, and all voting 
rights as a landed citizen of Dagger Falls. 

Randal hands each PC a beautifully wrought gold 
filagree brooch, decorated with Randal's personal coat 
of arms. The brooches are worth 50 gp each, but their 
value is immeasurable: As long as a PC owns one, he or 
she has the right to call upon the Freedom Riders for 
help. The pouches contain gems worth 1,000 gp. Ran 
dal also offers public offices in his new government to 
each of the PCs. 

Elminster produces a land grant for 10 acres outside 
Shadowdale. He also agrees to take a PC wizard as a pupil 
for ld4 months. This offer is made only if the PCs have 
completed all three adventures. 

The matter of the Sword of the Dales is left up to the 
DM. Gothyl does not sit idly by while the PCs attempt to 
destroy the Sword, even if it means confronting the com 
bined might of Elminster and Khelben. 

If the PCs ask Elminster's help in this matter, the wiz 
ard first determines how Gothyl is tied to the Sword, then 


severs that tie. This won't kill Gothyl, but it does make 
her angry. Unless the PCs manage to destroy the weapon, 
Gothyl survives. 

GoTbvl-'s PLdtos 

D espite Gothyl's successful ascension to demi-shade, 
she still has plans for the PCs. Her true desire is to 
break the bonds of undeath and return to the Realms as a 
living, breathing sorceress. In order to accomplish this, 
however, she needs suitable minions-and the PCs are 
perfect for her plans. 

Gothyl's actions depend on the direction in which the 
DM wants to take the campaign. If the DM believes that 
the PCs should keep a weapon as powerful as the Sword of 
the Dales with no strings attached, then so be it. 

Gothyl can take the PCs in any direction the DM 
wants. Eventually, however, the PCs are likely to tire of 
Gothyl. When this happens, they are forced to destroy 
the Sword of the Dales. 

4 



27 














MagIcaL Items 

Amo Spells 

The StuoRd of the Dates 

T he Sword of the Dales is a long sword +3 made of highly polished silver 
and inlaid with precious gems in its pommel. It glows with a soft blue 
radiance at all times. 

The Sword unlocks chains and manacles within 30 feet if the wielder 
speaks the word merry dale. The Sword grants the wielder the ability to 
breathe water (as the spell water breathing) once per day. The blade's 
most prominent ability is to cause double damage on all magically trans 
formed and magically created creatures. This includes golems and other 
magical constructs but not summoned or conjured creatures such as ele- 
mentals. 

In addition to the above powers, the weapon also reflects all polymorph and 
lightning-based attacks back at their caster. 

XP Value: 7,500 GP Sale Value: 25,000 

The Sword of the Dales is a regional icon-a weapon of power to save the 
Dales from the forces of evil. Most collectors are not interested in the 
weapon because it draws too many visitors seeking a glimpse of the weapon. 
Gothyl, the evil presence which lives within the blade, further complicates 
matters by casting suggestion through the Sword on interested collectors or 
diviners. Such suggestions always seem to refer the appraiser to "more capable 
and interested parties" some distance away. In other words, Gothyl attempts 
to make any interested buyer believe that he is not qualified to accurately 
judge the item's value. 



28 













































































































































Sb xbo cosh )&\b 

4th-Level Wizard Spell (Alteration) 

Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: Special 
Casting Time: 4 
Area of Effect: One creature 
Saving Throw: Negates 

This spell enables a wizard to make a creature more 
likely to survive an attack by imbuing the creature 
with a phantom shadow of itself. 

This phantom possesses half of the creature's normal 
hit points. When attacked, there is a 60% chance that 
the phantom takes all damage. The shadowshield is inef 
fective against psionic or attacks that affect the mind. 

The phantom makes saving throws just as the 
affected creature. If it is reduced to 0 or fewer hit 
points, the shadowshield is dispelled and cannot be 


cast again until one day per each hit point of damage 
taken has passed. In addition, creatures that attempt 
to use this spell more than three times per year must 
make a Constitution check. Failure indicates the per 
manent loss of one point of Constitution. 

The material component of this spell is the crea 
ture's shadow, which must be present to cast the spell. 

TeLeporcX Rltog 

T hese plain brass finger rings were once common 
in the Realms but are now very rare. They 
enable any wearer to teleport without error from a cur 
rent location to a predetermined spot on the same 
plane, either by speaking a command word or through 
activation by force of will. 

Teleport rings operate exactly like the 7th-level wiz 
ard spell but cannot travel across the planes. These 
rings were the source for Halaster's version of the 
horned and cursed teleport rings found in the Ruins of 
Undermountain. 



29 

















Arch-Shadow 


9488 



Arch-Shadow 

Demi-Shade 

CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Any 

Any 

FREQUENCY: 

Very Rare 

Very Rare 

ORGANIZATION: 

Solitary 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

Any 

DIET: 

Nil 

Nil 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Supra-genius 

Supra-genius 


(19-20) 

(19-20) 

TREASURE: 

C 

W 

ALIGNMENT: 

Any evil 

Any evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

6 

1 

MOVEMENT: 

9 

9 

HIT DICE: 

8+ 

11 + 

THACO: 

12 

9 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

ld4+l 

2d4 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Energy drain 

Energy drain 


Spell use 

Spell use 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Magical weapons +2 or better 


needed to hit 

weapons to hit 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

Nil 

SIZE: 

M (6' tall) 

M (6' tall) 

MORALE: 

Fearless (19-20) Fanatic (17-18) 

XP VALUE: 

4,500 

8,000 


As evil men and women grow older and see their deaths 
before them, many decide to take their chances with becom 
ing a lich. Most fail and die. The unlucky few who survive the 
process but fail to achieve lichdom become arch-shadows. 

Arch-shadows resemble ghosts or banshees that wander 
the earth, trying to fulfill their own dark plans. They are bru 
tal and unforgiving in their quest to attain a secure existence. 

Although any arch-shadow is usually disguised, in their 
natural form they appear as ghastly silhouettes of their orig 
inal bodies. Piercing blue-white pinpoints of light serve as 
eyes, their hair has become ebony, and their fingernails 
have turned blue-black. 

After gazing at an arch-shadow in its true form for ld4 
rounds, creatures see another side of this undead. The skin 
that covers their ghostly bodies becomes withdrawn and 
tight, and their blue-white eyes are tinged with crimson. 
Their faces are contorted in pain and agony. Sages have 
speculated that this was their final appearance before death, 
but only the arch-shadows know for sure. 

Combat: If an arch-shadow initiates combat, it is to allow 
them a chance to achieve demi-shade status. If an arch- 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



shadow is forced into a battle in which it has no chance of 
achieving some goal, it fakes its own death and awaits 
another opportunity. 

Each blow from an arch-shadow causes 2-5 (ld4+ 1) 
points of cold damage. Creatures immune to cold suffer 
only ld4 points of damage. By force of will, the arch 
shadow can also choose to drain one life-level from its tar 
get, but by doing so it takes the chance that its true nature 
will be revealed. 

Both arch-shadows and demi-shades retain the spellcast 
ing abilities they had in life; most undead of this sort are 
18th level or higher in ability. They can also use the same 
magical items they wielded in life. 

Arch-shadows cannot be destroyed by simple combat, 
powerful magic, or chance. Similar to a lich, their life force 
is stored in a receptacle. This receptacle is always a magical 
item of moderate to great power that is carefully protected. 

A magical weapon of +1 or greater enchantment is 
required to strike the arch-shadow. After being reduced to 0 
hit points they simply dissolve, drawn back to their magical 
prison. Both arch-shadows and demi-shades are unaffected 
by natural sunlight. 

As with all undead, arch-shadows are immune to sleep, 
charm, death, life-level loss, enfeeblement and other attacks 
that affect the minds of living creatures. Arch-shadows are 
turned as wraiths. 







Habitat/Society: Arch-shadows are relentless in the pursuit 
of their independence. Typically, their desire is to achieve 
demi-shade status and live out their existence in the study of 
new magics. To this end, they cooperate with adventurers or 
any other creatures that help them accomplish their goal. 

Unlike the lich, who takes very little interest in the 
affairs of the living, the arch-shadow is most interested in 
the happenings of the intelligent races. If there is a way to 
cause widespread destruction and fear while in the pursuit 
of achieving demi-shade, so much the better. These acts 
serve only to reinforce the fear of the arch-shadow's power. 

Creatures aiding an arch-shadow should expect little 
more than the chance to serve once demi-shade form has 
been achieved. Demi-shades expect loyalty from their sub 
jects, but have no honor to offer their followers. 

Ecology: There are no recorded instances of a high-level 
priest or wizard striving to become an arch-shadow on pur 
pose-it is misfortune that leads to their existence. 

During the process of achieving lichdom, the wizard or 
priest creates a special phylactery in which to store his or 
her life force. If this item ruptures during the process, there 
is a 5% chance that the wizard or priest becomes an arch 
shadow instead of being utterly destroyed. 

There has been much speculation concerning the rea 
sons behind the phylactery's failure. More often than not, 
faulty construction or some slight error in an incantation 
causes the delicate process to break down 

Once the lich process has failed and the creature has 
successfully made the crossover to arch-shadow status, sur 
vival is not guaranteed. A system shock roll must be made, 
with failure indicating that the arch-shadow is sucked into 
the Negative Energy Plane. 

If the roll is successful, the arch-shadow must install his 
life force into a magical item of moderate to great power, 
such as a +3 or better weapon, ring of wizardry, staff of cur 
ing, or other item of which the experience point value is 
greater than 1,500 (no artifacts). These items cannot be 
owned by the arch-shadow or any former henchmen, nor 
can they be within 10 miles of the arch-shadow once the 
attempt to become a lich has failed. 

Usually the decision of which magical item to use is 
made for the arch-shadow. He or she is teleported to a ran 
dom location where an item capable of accepting the infu 
sion exists. The source of this teleportation is unknown. 

After infusing the item with its life force, the arch 
shadow has tremendous capabilities regarding the uses of 
that item. The arch-shadow can add additional powers to 
it, place contingency and other warding magics upon it, and 


generally attempt to twist the magic for specific purposes. 

Adding additional powers to the item may destroy it (and 
thus kill the arch-shadow), so powerful contingencies are 
placed upon it instead. The chance of destroying an item by 
placing additional powers into it is 5% per spell level of abil 
ity added multiplied by the magical bonus of the weapon. 

In order to destroy an arch-shadow, the item infused with 
its life force must be destroyed. Once the item is destroyed, 
the arch-shadow loses 2 hit points per day until dead. 

To make the ascension to demi-shade, the arch-shadow 
must drain creatures who have touched the Sword within the 
last 24-hours. It takes eight life levels gathered within two 
hours for the change to occur, but an arch-shadow can gam 
ble and gain more Hit Dice in the process of transforming. 
They accomplish this typically by draining high-level char 
acters or powerful creatures, normally attacking by surprise. 

For each additional level over eight that the arch 
shadow drains, one extra Hit Die is added. If the draining 
takes place in a particularly unhallowed place, the arch 
shadow gains an additional +1 on Hit Dice. In no event 
can the arch-shadow surpass 30 HD. 

Demi-Shade 

This is the mature form of the arch-shadow. After draining 
enough life energy to emerge into its new form, the demi- 
shade typically disappears from the face of the world for a 
time as it determines its next course of action. Since it still 
retains its link to the magical item that carries its life 
energy, the demi-shade normally brings the item with it for 
safekeeping. 

Unlike its lich cousin, the demi-shade remains highly 
interested in the affairs of the living. After 10-40 years of 
solitude, the demi-shade puts its plans to work. Although 
they seldom have any desire to rule countries, they possess 
a fierce determination to see the world burn around them. 

The demi-shade appears as a physical manifestation of 
its previous body. Skin color has changed to a deep shade of 
gray-back, and eyes burn a fierce crimson. 

Combat: The touch of the demi-shade inflicts 2d4 points of 
damage and the loss of one level of experience. Its strong ties 
to magic also cause a 25% failure rate against magical items 
that grant immunities to life level loss (i.e. scarab of protec 
tion) .A demi-shade can be turned as a lich and a vampire and 
has all of the resistances and immunities of an arch-shadow. 

A demi-shade can only be struck by weapons of +2 or 
better enchantment. It is not adversely affected by sunlight 
but tends to avoid it nonetheless. If its phylactery is 
destroyed, it loses 4 hp per day until it perishes. 




Bstcow-Stens 


Appewdtor 


1-3 The Zhentarim 

Zhent Captain: 2nd-level human fighter; AL LE; 
AC 5; MV 12; hp 18; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 
(long sword); XP 35; wearing chain and shield. 
Soldiers (10): lst-level human fighters; AL LE; AC 
7; MV 12; h P 8, 7(x3), 6, 5(x4), 3; THACO 20; 
Dmg by weapon type; XP 15 each. They wear ring 
mail and carry short swords and light crossbows. 
Horses (11): Int. animal; AL N; AC 7; MV 24; HD 
3; h P 13 each; THACO 17; #AT 2; Dmg 1-2/1-2; SZ 
L; ML 6; XP 65. 

4-5 Freedom Riders 

Freedom Riders (12): lst-level human fighters; AL 
NG; AC 8; MV 12; hp 9, 8, 7(x2), 6(x4), 5(x2), 4, 
2; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type; ML 14; 
XP 35 each. They wield long swords, short swords, 
short bows, daggers, and darts. 

6-7 Wolves 

Wolves (2d6): Int low; AL N; AC 7; MV 18; HD 3; 
h P 10 each; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg ld4+l; SD +1 
vs. charm attacks; SZ S; ML 10; XP 120. 


8-10 Hobgoblins 

Hobgoblins (12): Int average; AL LE; AC 5; HD 
1+1; h P 9(x2), 8(x2), 7(x2), 6(x3), 5, 4(x2); #AT 1 
or 2; Dmg ld8 (long sword) or ld6 (short bow); SZ 
M; ML 12; XP 35. Their treasure is hidden under a 
large rock: 1,250 sp and 425 gp. 

11 The Great Red Ghost 

12 Zhentarim Patrol 
13-14 I've Lost My Pride! 

Wemic (2): Int average; AC 6; MV 12; HD 5+8; hp 
33, 26; THACO 15; #AT 2 or 3; Dmg Id4/ld4 and 
ld4+l (warhammer); SD -2 bonus on initiative 
rolls; SZ L; ML 12; XP 270. 

15-17 Fire Beetles 

Fire Beetles (2d6): Int non; AL N; AC 4; MV 12; 
HD 1+2; hp 5 each; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 2d8; 
SZ S; ML 12; XP 35. 

18-20 Kobold Scouts 

Kobolds (20): Int average; AL LE; AC 7; MV 6; HD 
ld4; h P 4(x3), 3(x7), 2(x7), l(x3); THACO 20; 
#AT 1; Dmg by weapon type; SZ S; ML 9; XP 7. 
They are armed with javelins and short swords. 


EbJcouKiTeizs AppetocMjr 

There is a chance every eight hours for an encounter to 
occur. 

The Zhentarim 

These patrols were sent to search for the PCs. If the PCs 
surrender or are defeated by the Zhents, Captain Mestin 
Durmark leads a rescue mission. 

Freedom Riders 

They have no idea who the PCs are; this patrol is scout 
ing the area for Zhent patrols. They ask the PCs a few 
polite questions and then move on. 

Wolves 

The animals are hesitant about approaching fire but will 
attack as soon as the fire goes out. 

Hobgoblins 

One of many patrols sent out to scour the area, the gob 
lins are supposed to make sure no one gets through the 
trail to Dagger Falls. 


The Great Red Ghost 

To the northeast, a blotch of crimson can be seen circling 
the Dagger Hills. PCs who grew up in the Dagger Hills 
and make a successful Wisdom check have heard of this 
phenomenon. 

This is actually nothing more than a pseudo-mirage- 
the heat from the hills and reflected sunlight. After ld4 
turns, the image seems to disappear behind a hill. 

I've Lost My Pride! 

These two wemics have recently been accepted by their 
pride as adults. There's only one problem; they're lost. 
They're quite embarrassed and ride up to the party asking 
for directions to "a large burned-out building used by the 
humans a long time ago." They're referring to Castle Dag- 
gerdale, and the PCs have a 50% chance of knowing 
where the castle is. 

Kobolds 

These small creatures were sent out to raid and to report to 
their king on the increased hobgoblin activity in the hills. 
They're more interested in loot than in any discussion. 


32 






H HO 0 01 i Si (i i 



QauRisoN Heat)QuaRt€RS 


Map 3 


F=^ = tables 

= Iron Bans 
= Door 
= Box on cpest 
= Desk 

= CoucD 
= Bookshelf 
= CDaiRS 
= BCO 
= Drgssgr 
(r) = Armor StaNb 
(r) = FinepiacG 

^ = LOQS 
¦ = Window 

-<j*- = ONe way Secnet Door 



a : . b 

* t , i * • "• • r: "] * 

, 9 


B o ii c 


r- i 

¦ 

D. 1 

it(r) 

0 

m 

& 

is! 
ea gl 


Ong SQuane = iofeet 

















tk part one of the Randal Mom trilogy, T7ic 
±>l cL 1 of the Units, the legendary Leader of 
Daggerdale, Randal Mom r was captured by 
unknown assailants as he sought to regain the 
great weapon for which that adventure was A 

named. A stalwart band of young and enthusiastic 1 
hemes was recruited to ride to his aid, yet all they A 
recovered wan the £iwnd itself and a message: 

"Seek me in Spiderhaimt Wood." Eh the second part 
of the trilogy, The Secret of Spiderhm nt, those same 
3 d venturers found Randal and freed him briefly yet 
he was almost as quickly torn from thei r grasp by 
an agent of the evil Zhentarim,,, seeking, to end the 
threat of Randal Morn's retorn to power. 

In this final episode, the heroes must follow the 
kidnapper's trail and rescue Randal Morn before the 
Zhentarim finish interrogating him and the axe falls 
upon his neck, Armed with tht* Sawd of the Dales and 
aided by a powerful magical spirit that lives within the 
weapnm r the heroes must march into the heart of Zhent- 
occtipied Dagger Falls, free Randal Morn, and save the dty 
from utter destruction- The job is dangerous-perhaps more 
than the heroes can handle-yet those who would live in 
songs and legends cannot concern themselves with living 
to a ripe old age! 

This is the final part of a trilogy of modules that began 
with The Sword of The Dates and The Secret of Spiderftaunt. 


TSFL L-tsE, 

1 20 l.'huri:!i End 

ChuXTV HilLlLIEL 

C':imhri.l|Tir CRI JLB 
T riiteJ Kai i-.;i3i til 

3 vtg. Retail U.S. $6,95 CAN fpS.95 U,K. £4.50 

ADVANCtt) DUN5E5H9* DRAGONS. J fid FORGOTTEN REALMS mu n-jiHlnrHii IrtHShrtLfrhSi cwnefl b> 
TSR. Inf. 
The tSfi toge ? * iMdrnimk aaiwd tv TSH, Inc. 01MO l*fl, Inc. 4* >1^1* humhiL PrlirtBiS hi th* UJ5.A. 


HR, hiv, 

201 Sheridan SprLapr RJ- 
Like GLilLvit 
W1 53 M 7 
I I.S.A. 





liSH 



S£l6?5> 


















































