Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09111 AD& D 1 E Adventure UK 3 The Gauntlet ( Level 3 6)"
See other formats
The second module in the two-part ADLERWEG series 


9111 


Advanced 

Dungeons|>T)ragons 

Official Game Adventure 

THE GAUNTLET 

by Graeme Morris 



TSR, Inc, 

PRODUCTS OF TOUR IMAGINATION" 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS S DRAGONS and PRODUCTS Of YOUR IMAGINATION an- trademarks qI TSR. Inc. 





ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS 

Fantasy Adventure Module 


THE GAUNTLET 

by Graeme Morris 


This module can be played alone or as the second adventure of the two-part Adlerweg series. 



The Keep of Adlerweg has remained aloof and impenetrable since before the coming of the 
Sea Princes. Great Armies have broken like waves against its walls, but now it is overrun and 
occupied by a sinister force. How can you restore it to its former glory? 


ADVANCED OUNGEONS & DRAGONS and PRODUCTS OF VOUR IMAGINATION are trademarks owned by 
TSR, Inc. 


Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House. Inc., and in Canada by Random 
House of Canada, Ltd, 
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 

Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR UK, Ltd. 


This module is protected under Ihe copy right laws of the United States of America, Any reproduction or 
other unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is 

prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, too 

c 1964 TSR. Inc. Ail Rights Reserved, 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
Wl 53147 



TSR (UK) Ltd. 

The Mill, Rath more Road 
Cambridge CB14AD 
United Kingdom 


TSR, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION"* 


PRINTED fN U.S.A. 
ISBN O&8038-119-1 


9111 











































INTRODUCTION 

This module is for use with the ADVANCED DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS H adventure role-playing game rules. It is designed 
for 6-10 characters of levels 3-6 of whom at least some must be 
of lawful good, neutral good, chaotic good, lawful neutral, or 
true neutral alignment. 


STOP! 

If you intend to be a player in this module, do not read 
any further. The information in this booklet is for the 
Dungeon Master (DM) only. Any knowledge of the 
module will spoil your enjoyment of the adventure 
and that of the other players. 


CONTENTS 

Page 


INTRODUCTION 2 

Contents 2; Abbreviations 2; Background for the DM 3 

THE JOURNEY TO ADLERWEG 5 

The Ruins of Gannaway S; The Track through the 
Mountains 5 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 6 

THE RECAPTURE OF ADLERWEG 7 


Architecture of the Keep 7; The Fall of the Keep 8; The New 
Garrison of the Keep 8; Entering the Keep (areas 1-4) 8; 

The Undercroft (rooms 5-9) 10; The Tower 13; Floor 1 
(rooms 10-12) 13; Floor 2 (rooms 13-17) 14; Floor 3 
(rooms 18-22) 16: Floor 4 (rooms 23-28} 18 

THE SJEGE OF ADLERWEG 21 

Summary of this Part 21; Starting the Siege 21; The Attack 
by the Fire Giant 21; The Fire Giant's Army 22; Initial 
Assault 23; Parley With The Giant 24; The Magical 
Prison 24; The Instruction Book 25; The Secret Chest 25; 

Releasing the Prisoners 25; Prisoners (cells 1-4) 26 

THE GAUNTLET 28 

Powers 28 

THE SENTINEL 29 

Powers 29; Destruction of the Gauntlet and the Sentinel 29 

ALTERNATIVE START TO THE ADVENTURE 30 

The Skulks' Lair 30 


VIEW OF THE KEEP (tear-out) 

MESSAGE FROM THE SENTINEL (tear-out) 
MONSTER ROSTER 
DUNGEON MASTER S MAPS A-C 
PLAYERS' MAP 

SUGGESTED CHARACTER ROSTER 


31-32 

31-32 

inside module folder 
inside module folder 
outside module folder 
outside module folder 


ABBREVIATIONS 

In this module, the statistics of monsters and non-player 
characters have been standardised. The information is given in 
brackets after the monster's/NPC's name, as follows: 

AC - Armour Class; MV - Movement Rate; HD = Hit Dice 
(monsters} or Class/Level (NPCs - see below}; hp = current hit 
points (figures in brackets indicate maximum hit points of 
wounded creatures); AT = Number of Attacks; D = Damage 
Caused by Attacks; SA = Special Attacks; SD - Special 
Defences; MR - Magic Resistance; Int - Intelligence (monsters 
only); AL - Alignment: Ability Scores (NPCs only *see below); 
Size (monsters only); xp = Experience Points awarded for 
overcoming; THACO (below); Source of further information. 

The following additional abbreviations are used: C = Cleric, 
D - Druid, F " Fighter. P - Paladin, R = Ranger. M = Magic User, 

1 = Illusionist. T = Thief. A- Assassin, Mk = Monk, S - Strength. 

2 


I - Intelligence, W = Wisdom, D - Dexterity, C - Constitution, 

Ch = Charisma, MM = AD&D(tm) Monster Manual. FF - FIEND 
FOLIO(tm)Tome, PH - AD&D Players Handbook. DMG = AD&D 
Dungeon Masters Guide 

THACO = To Hit Armour Class Zero, This is the roll on a d2Q 
needed by a creature to hit an opponent with AC 0 (see DMG 
pi96-215 r for examples). In most cases, the roll needed to hit 
other armour classes - THACO - AC. Some creatures, whose 
hit probability is very low, have been given a THACO of 20+, 
and in these instances the DM should consult the relevant 
tables (see DMG p74-5) to find the rolls needed to hit other 
armour classes. 

BOXED SECTIONS includethat information which the players 
wou td get from a first glance at an area or the inside of a room. 
The DM may either paraphrase or read them out as written. 




BACKGROUND FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 


INTRODUCTION 


This module concludes the adventure which began in module 
UK2 - THE SENTINEL. It is assumed that the characters taking 
part in this adventure have completed the first part and have 
obtained the magical glove known as the Sentinel (see page 
29) since, without this, they will not be able to fulfil the quest. 

If, for some reason, the DM does not wish the characters to 
adventure in module UK2. some other means by which they 
may obtain the Sentinel will be required. For this purpose, the 
DM may design an adventure, compatible with the events and 
setting of this module, which culminates with the adventurers 
finding the Sentinel. Otherwise, the brief ALTERNATIVE 
START TO THIS ADVENTURE (page 30) may be used. 


Setting for the Adventure 

The events in this module begin in the hills at the head of the 
Hool River (in the region known as Berghof). and move on to 
the Keep of Adlerweg (in the Kamph mountains between 
Berghof and Jeklea Bay) where most of the action takes place. 
The area shown on map A on the inside of the module folder 
encompasses hexes E5/137 and E5/138 on the WORLD OF 
GREYHAWK(tm) Map. 


caravan that braved the pass without an armed escort, and the 
barons did not forget the cool breezes of Berghof. 

Then, upon a time, there came among the barons a dark mage 
of tremendous power, and he offered to aid them in the pursuit 
of their ambitions. Vast was his price and long were his 
labours, but when he was finished, the barons thought the deal 
a bargain, for he had fashioned a weapon which was more than 
capable of destroying the Keep, A gauntlet it was, made of 
hard, black leather, set with iron studs and rugged gems. It 
seemed large, but once donned, it would alter itself to fit any 
left hand. Into it had gone more than a portion of the mage s 
power, for it possessed the power of thought and was driven by 
a will of its own; a will dominated by the desire to destroy the 
Keep (see THE GAUNTLET - page 28). 

As soon as word of the Gauntlet (this was all the title it needed) 
reached the ears of the Duke in Berghof, all the mages of the 
land were summoned to his palace, and work began on a 
counter to this awesome threat. Although there was but little 
time in which to accomplish this task, the final creation proved 
indeed to be a match for the evil of the Gauntlet, It was its very 
antithesis; soft, pale in colour and fitting snugly on the right 
hand of any wearer, all its powers concentrated on defence. 


Berghof is a land of gently rolling hills, many covered with 
fight, mixed woodland. By contrast, the Kamph mountains are 
harsh and stark. Trees are rare, vegetation sparse and the 
creatures who live in the shadows of the snow-covered peaks 
have grown lean and vicious in the struggle to survive. 


History 

In ages past, before the rise of the Sea Princes, Berghof was an 
independent and populous state, ruled by a succession of 
Grand Dukes. For many years, the self-styled barons of the 
scorched and barren coastal lands to the south east, beyond 
the Kamph mountains, had coveted the lush and fertile hills of 
the Dukes' peaceful state. War would have been the undoubted 
outcome were it not for the fact that the only route between the 
two lands was through the Pass of Adlerweg ('the way of the 
eagle 1 ). This narrow canyon, cutting through the Kamph 
range, had been eroded by the River Gann (see map A), and 
was defended by a lofty fortress, which had been built by the 
Dukes as a guard against any surprise attack. Dominating the 
pass from its rocky spur, the Keep of Adlerweg was so 
cunningly constructed that it exceeded all the Dukes' 
expectations, and no army could force a passage. 

An uneasy peace prevailed for some while, and the Dukes 
turned their thoughts to other matters. Yet rare was the 


Worn by a succession of mages calling themselves the 
Guardians, the glove was named the Sentinel. In it lay 
Serghofs hope and strength, and, should the opportunity 
arise, it had power enough to destroy the Gauntlet forever (see 
THE SENTINEL - page 29). As tong as the Keep was guarded 
by the Sentinel, the Gauntlet dared not assail it, and thus the 
pass was made secure and a stalemate reached. 

As time passed, the power of the Sea Princes waxed ever 
stronger, and soon the coastal lands fell to their hordes, yet 
still the Keep protected Berghof. As the Sea Princes marched 
on to victory, the Gauntlet was first hidden, then lost during the 
ensuing mayhem. The Sentinel, deprived of its enemy, fell into 
quiescence. The last mage to take the title of Guardian finally 
retired to his lake-side villa, and took the Sentinel with him. 
There it remained until his descendants forgot its history and 
came to regard it as no more than a curio. 

The decline of this once proud family paralleled that of 
Berghof itself, and. by the time the land had been peacefully 
assimilated by the Sea Princes, the villa lay in ruins. As for the 
Keep, its sole purpose was now to hold the pass against the 
tribes of humanoids which inhabited the mountains. 

Years passed, The Sentinel lay forgotten in a ruined, vine- 
covered villa. The Gauntlet, lost to human knowledge, gained 
strength and purpose, and waited...- 




INTRODUCTION 


Recent Events 

Many years after it had passed out of the knowledge of men t 
the Gauntlet was discovered in a rocky fissure by an ognilon* 
out hunting alone in the Kamph Mountains, Driven by a force 
he could not control and unaware of the consequences, he put 
It on. 

Instantly, he became a slave to its evil will. Filled with the power 
invested in him by the Gauntlet, and driven on by it, the ogrilion 
gathered a small army of gnolls and other creatures and 
attacked the Keep of Adferweg. Protected by the Gauntlet's 
magic, the ogrilion was able to stride unharmed through a hail 
of arrows from the defenders, and smashed the upper gate of 
the Keep (area 3) as if it were made of matchwood. The 
garrison troops, thrown into confusion by a fear spell cast from 
the Gauntlet, were soon overwhelmed and their bodies thrown 
into the ravine. 

Through its long years of waiting, the Gauntlet had perverted 
the purposes for which it had been created. Instead of 
destroying the Keep, it had decided to use it as a base from 
which to conduct a reign of terror and conquest, However, it 
realised that the ogrilion was not strong enough to satisfy its 
lust for power and that it would need a more fitting bearer. 



Delving into the ogrillon's memory, the Gauntlet learned of a 
fire giant who had established himself as a warlord in the 
nearby mountains. It also learned that the fire giant had a 
daughter, a charming girl by the standards of her race, fond of 
hunting wild goats and killing them with her bare hands. The 
ogrilion knew the giantess 1 favourite hunting grounds and it 
was a relatively easy matter for a squad of gnolls from the Keep 
to capture her and bring her back to Adlerweg where she was 
confined in the Keep's magical prison (see page 24), 

The Gauntlet hoped to lure the fire giant to the Keep and so 
gain the opportunity of transferring itself to a more powerful 
wearer. The arrival of the fire giant and his army at the Keep, 
and the subsequent events are described in THE SIEGE OF 
ADLERWEG (page 21). 


Recovery of the Sentinel 

The events surrounding the re-awakening of the Sentinel and 
its discovery by the adventurers are covered by module UK2 - 
THE SENTINEL 

Awoken by the sudden re-emergence of its old enemy, the 
Sentinel found itself alone in the ruins of the long-dead 
Guardian's villa. Alone, that is, save for a pair of odious skulks 
who were terrorising the region. Desperate for a bearer who 
would take it to meet its foe, the Sentinel used the skulks to 
attract the attention of the adventurers who, after many 
adventures and false trails, found Hand undertook its quest. 


Outline of the Adventure 

The adventure in this module begins immediately after the 
adventurers acquire the magical glove known as the Sentinel. 
This may have occurred in room V26 of the Lake-Side Villa in 

module UK2 - THE SENTINEL, during the ALTERNATIVE 
START TO THIS ADVENTURE on page 30, or in the DM's own 
adventure. 

The Sentinel will demand that the adventurers take if to 
confront the Gauntlet at the Keep of Adferweg. On the way, it is 
likely that the adventurers will pass through Gannaway where 
they will encounter a wounded gnoll chieftain who may serve 
as a useful source of information (see THE JOURNEY TO 
ADLERWEG-page 5). 

When they arrive at the Keep (see THE RECAPTURE OF 
ADLERWEG - page 7), the adventurers will be advised by the 
Sentinel to enter the building through the abandoned 
chambers beneath it (the undercroft). If they follow the 
Sentinel's advice, and if they overcome the denizens of the 
lower chambers, the adventurers will avoid the Keep's main 
defences and will take the defenders unaware. At the top of the 
Keep, the party will encounter the ogrilion wearing the 
Gauntlet. However, before he can be stopped, the creature will 
retreat into the Keep's magical prison. 

Before the party has time to seek out the ogrilion, the Keep will 
be attacked by the fire giant and his army (see THE SIEGE OF 
ADLERWEG - page 21). The adventurers should be able to 
repulse the giant's first attack, after which he will parley with 
them and demand the release of his daughter. The party must 
then work out how the magical prison is operated, find the 
means of releasing the giantess, and do so. at which point the 
giant will leave. The final stage of the adventure will be the 
release of the Gauntlet from the prison and the confrontation 
between it and the Sentinel. 


4 



THE JOURNEY TO 


Once the Sentinel has been rescued by the adventurers, it wiN 
insist that they go to the Keep of Adlerweg in order to confront 
the Gauntlet. It will tolerate minor delays or diversions if these 
will contribute to the success of the mission but its fears 
concerning the Gauntlet will make it impatient, If the 
adventurers are unwilling to proceed with the task at hand as 
soon as possible, the Sentinel will attempt to persuade them to 
change their minds. If necessary, tt will resort to the withdrawal 
of its powers and will even attempt to dominate the personality 
of Hs bearer and will use its suggestion ability on the other 
adventurers (see THE SENTINEL - page 29). 

The adventurers' general knowledge of the region is repre 
sented by the players' map on the outside of the module folder. 
If necessary, however, the Sentinel will guide the party on their 
journey to Adferweg 

THE RUINS OF GANNAWAY 

There are several routes by which the adventurers might travel 
to the Keep of Adlerweg (see map A)but it is likely that they wilt 
pass through Gannaway: 

- ----- ¦> 

A village comes into view, but the scene before you is 
not the untroubled one that you would normally 
expect. 

The village has been ravaged by fire, only parts of the 
stockade remain standing, the wooden buildings have 
been reduced to smouldering timbers and the few 
stone buildings are roofless and blackened. You can 
see several corpses lying amongst the ruins. 


When the party enters the village: 

r - - - 

A closer inspection of the village confirms that it has 
been attacked. There are about 200 corpses, most of 
which are human villagers. The rest, about 15 in all, 
are apparently the corpses of their attackers - tall 
humanoid creatures, with dog-like faces, yellowish 
manes of unkempt hair and grey skin. 

The Intermittent sound of a dog barking comes from 
one of the stone buildings which still retains parts of 
its roof. 


The adventurers will be able to estimate correctly the time of 
the attack as 12 hours ago. The village was attacked and 
overrun by a raiding-party of gnolls and war-dogs led by an 
ogre and a flind. The villagers were surprised and unprepared, 
and were massacred by their attackers who then proceeded to 
loot the place, taking every item of value - including the 
equipment of their dead companions. 

The raiding party did not come from the Keep of Adlerweg but 
from a related group of tribal humanoids living in the Kamph 
flange. The group leaving the village was large, and characters 
with tracking skills will automatically be able to follow its trail. 
Five miles south of the village, however, the raiders split into 
groups of 5-10 individuals which then continued towards the 
mountains. If any of these groups is followed, its trail will be 
lost before reaching the mountains. 


ADLERWEG 

Inside the Ruined Building 

If the adventurers investigate the sound of barking, they will 
find a badly wounded gnoll chieftain (AC3; MV 1": HD 2; hp2(22); 
* AT 1; D 2-5 (bare hand) or 2-5 (heavy crossbow); SA Attacks 
as 4HD creature; SD Nil; MR Std; lot Ave; Ai CE; Size L; xp32; 
THACO 16; MM) and his war-dog (AC 6; MV 12"; HD 2+2; 
hp 16;* AT 1; D 2-5; SA Nil: SD Nil; MR Std; Int Serrn; AL N; Size M; 
Xp 83: THACO 16; MM). 

The chieftain was badly wounded during the raid and was 
abandoned by his troops, but his dog has remained loyal. His 
right leg and left arm are useless so his movement is restricted 
(all opponents' attacks are at +4 to hit). He cannot reload his 
crossbow. He has been robbed of all personal treasure. 

He will fight to the death if necessary (aided by his dog), but 
will cautiously accept aid if it is offered. In return for this, he 
will give the party between 2 and 5 of the items of information 
listed below (depending on the usefulness of the help). The 
gnoll believes that all this information is true. It cannot be 
obtained from him by force: 

1. The group which destroyed Gannaway was formed from a 
number of small bands which recently came down from 
the mountains to raid the lowlands (True). 

2. Recently, a previously unknown ogrilJon has emerged as a 
powerful war-lord in the mountains (True). 

3. The Keep of Adlerweg has recently been overrun by a tribe 
of trolls (False). 

4. I n the mountains to the south and east, evil creatures have 
been gathering under the leadership of a giant (True). 

5. There are rumours everywhere of an impending war 
between the creatures of the mountains and the humans 
of the lowlands (True), 

6. A dark and terrible creature in the mountains is preparing 
to unleash the power of several volcanoes to destroy the 
humans of the region (False). 

THE TRACK THROUGH THE MOUNTAINS 

The track from Gannaway follows the River Gann up into the 
mountains (see map A). Progress by the party will be slow but 
the track is not in itself dangerous. However, the mountains are 
inhabited by many dangerous creatures, and bands of hostile 
humanoids are on the move (See RANDOM ENCOUNTERS - 
MOUNTAIN PASS - page 6), 

When the track first enters the mountains, it is on the right bank 
of the River Gann (looking upstream). Later, it crosses the river 
by a ford and follows the river on the left from then on. 

The track is the only practical route for the party to follow 
across the mountains. It follows a ledge, partly natural and 
otherwise hewn, which has an even, level surface. Its width 
varies between 10 and 20 feet, and its height above the river 
ranges from a few feet to several hundred. The mountains soar 
thousands of feet above the track along most of Its length. 

As the adventurers approach the Keep, the DM should refer to 
encounter area 1. 


5 





RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

Except in the Keep or in the villages, random encounters will occur on a roll of 1 on a d6 in each 6-hour 
period (ie rolJ 
twice each day and twice each night) or at the discretion of the DM. If a random encounter is indicated, 
the DM should 
determine the type of creature involved by rolling a dlO and consulting the appropriate table below. The 
DM may 
choose either to dictate the number of creatures which appear or else to use the ranges indicated. Each 
random 
encounter will occur only once 


LOWLANDS (Wood or Open) - DAY 

1-5 A forlarren (AC 2; MV 9"; HD 3: hp 15; z AT 2; D 1-4/1-4; 
SA Heat metal; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Semi; AL NE; Size M; 
xp 135;THAC0 16; FF) will unexpectedly break coverand 
attack the party. His subsequent actions will run true to 
form for his species (see the FIEND FOLIO(tm) Tome). He 
has no treasure. 

6-0 2 Adult giant weasels (AC 6; MV 15"; HD 3+3; hp 19 each; 
- AT 1: D 2-12; SA Drain blood (2-12 hp/round); SD Nil; 
MR Std: Int Animal; AL N; Size M; xp 201 each;THACO 16; 
MM) and 2*5 young giant weasels (AC 6; MV 15"; HD 2+2; 
hp 14 each -"AT 1. D2-8; SA Drain blood (2-Shp/round); 
SD Nil; MR Std: Int Animal; Size S; xp 132 each; 
THACO 16; MM) who will regard the adventurers as prey 
and attack them on sight. The adults' pelts are worth 
25Q0gp each and those of the young are worth 2000gp 
each. These values should be reduced by 50gp for each hit 
point of physical damage inflicted on the creatures 
concerned, even where the totaf damage js more than is 
required to kill them. 


MOUNTAIN PASS - DAY 

1-4 A troll (AC 4; MV 12"; HD 6+6; hp 38;-- AT3: D 5-8/5-8/2-12; 
SA Body parts can fight independently; SD Regeneration; 
MR Std; Inf Low; AL CE; Size L; xp 829; THACO 13; MM) 
will meet the party on the track and attack. If interrogated 
under duress, the troll will relate 1-4 of the rumours listed 
for the gnoll chieftain (page 5), 

5-6 5-8 Blood hawks (AC 7: MV24"; HD 1+1; hp6 each;" 7 AT 3; 
D 1-4/1-4/1-6; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Semi; AL N; 
Size S; xp 32 each; THACO 18 each; FF) will attack the 
party from their nests which are on a rocky ledge 120 feet 
above the track, The rock face below the ledge is nearly 
vertical but may be scaled (at a rate of 12 feet per round) by 
characters with the ability to climb walls. The nests 
contain various gems (total value 350gp per hawk 
encountered). 

7-0 A slide of scree and small boulders from the slope above 
the track will strike the party. Each party member will 
suffer 2-12 hit points of damage (halved if the character 
saves vs Breath). The landslide is a natural occurrence. 





LOWLANDS (Wood or Open) - NIGHT 

1-6 1-3 Ettercaps (AC 6: MV 12 rF ; HD 5; hp 26 each; * AT 3; 
D 1-3/1-3/1-8; SA Poison and nets; SD Nil; MR Std; 
Int Low; AL NE;SizeM: xp295each;THACO 15; FF), each 
armed with a net, will ambush the party. Each net may be 
thrown at one character who should be treated as AC 10 
(plus dexterity modifiers). If hit, the character will be 
ensnared (unable to move) ford6+2 rounds (negated if the 
character saves vs Breath), The ettercaps have no 
treasure. 

7-0 2-4 Harpies (AC 7: MV (c)'715"; HD 3; hp 14 each;-AT 3; 
D 1-3/1-3/1-6; SA Singing and charm; SD Nil; MR Std: Int 
Low; AL CE; Size M; xp 187 each; THACO 16; MM). One 
uses a broken tongsword as a weapon (treat as short- 
sword), This has a fine, jewelled pommel (value - 400gp). 


MOUNTAIN PASS - NIGHT 

1-4 4-7 Leader-type goblins (AC 6; MV 6"; HD 1; hp 7 each: 
- AT 1; D 1-6 (short sword) or 1-4 (sling); SA Nil; SD Nil; 
MR Std: Int Ave; AL LE; Size S; xp 17 each; THACO 19: 
MM) each mounted on a dire woH (AC 6; MV 18"; HD 3+3; 
hp 18 each- AT 1; D 2-8; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Semi; 
ALN; Size M;xp 132 each; THACO 16, MM) will encounter 
the party on the track. The goblins each have dIO+IOgp in 
mixed coins. One has adecorated clasp on his belt-pouch 
(silver inlaid with coral, value - 250gp) The wolves have no 
treasure. If interrogated, each goblin will relate one of the 
rumours listed for the gnoll chieftain (page 5), 

5-7 1 -3 Giant owls (AC 6; MV 3718": HD 4; hp 20 each;' AT 3; 
D 2-8/2-S/2-5; SA Surprise on a 1-5; SD Nit; MR Std; Int 
Very: AL N; Size M; xp 230 each; THACO 15: MM) will 
swoop down silently and attack the party. Their nests are 
far away and the party will not be able to find them. 

8-0 A violent storm will develop over a period of about ten 
minutes and will last for about an hour. The party wifi be 
lashed by rain, and lightning will strike the peaks above 
the pass. At the height of the storm a minor branch from a 
streak of forked lightning will strike the party. Each 
adventurer wearing metal armour will suffer 4d4 hit points 
of damage (negated if the character saves vs. Breath) , The 
storm is a natural phenomenon 



6 















THE RECAPTURE OF ADLERWEG 





¦ft. 


v, 










sjfS 


The undercroft {rooms 5-9) is at the same level as the main 
track through the pass. Its largest chamber {known as the 
Gateway of Berghof - room 5) was well known to those who 
used the pass, since all traffic was obliged to go through here. 
Other parts of the undercroft were set aside for use by the 
Guardians alone, and a secret stairway, known only to them, 
leads from the undercroft to the tower above. This is the route 
which the party will be advised to use to enter the Keep 


When the last Guardian left the Keep, the doors leading to the 
Gateway ol Berghof were magically sealed (see the description 
of area 4}, A section of trackway (shown by shading on maps B 
and C) was built to by-pass the Gateway so that traffic could 
continue to use the pass. Knowledge of the secret door which 
leads to the stairway down to the undercroft was entrusted to 
the castellans who succeeded the Guardians. Latterly, 
however, the doorway was forgotten and the undercroft has 
not been entered for many years. 


The tower is a defensive structure consisting of several floors. 
The lowest level {floor 1. rooms 10-12) consists mainly of a 
battlemented platform overlooking the track. The upper 
gateway (see area 3), which has been the only entrance used in 
recent years, is on the next level up (floor 2 t rooms 13-17) It is 
reached by a narrow path (area 3) which slopes down to meet 
the main track. The upper floors of the tower (floor 3. rooms 
18-22; floor4, rooms 23-26) contain living quarters, stores, and 
so forth. 




This part of the adventure starts with the approach of the 
adventurers to the Keep of Adlerweg, At the time of the party's 
arrival, the Keep is occupied by the ogrillon. which the 
Gauntlet has dominated, and his retinue. Urged on by the 
Sentinel, the party must enter the Keep (preferably in secret via 
the disused rooms and passages in the undercroft beneath the 
tower) and seek out the ogrillon, defeating all other creatures 
in its path. If cornered, the ogrillon will consign itself to the 
magical imprisonment system of the Keep in order to escape 
the Sentinel. The characters will only be able to confront the 
ogrillon and the Gauntlet after the fire giant's siege which is 
described in THE SIEGE OF ADLERWEG {page 21}. 


ARCHITECTURE OF THE KEEP 


The position of the Keep (see map B) is dominating. Placed on 
an acute mountain spur, it can only be attacked effectively 
from the main trackway (area 1) running below its walls, or 
from the path (area3) which climbs from the track tothe upper 
*- either case, attackers would be forced to come very 
close to the Keep, and to occupy a very confined position 
exposed to fire from the Keep's defenders Until the coming of 
the ogrillon and the Gauntlet, the Keep had never been taken. 


The Keep can bethought of as comprising two main parts: the 
main defensive structure - the tower - and the underground 
chambers and passages beneath It - the undercroft. 


7 




THE RECAPTURE OF ADLERWEG 


The roofs of the tower are stone and there is no direct access to 
them from the interior of the tower. The main parts are flat and 
are criss-crossed by cables, at heights ranging between 6 
inches and 3 feet which make it very difficult to walk across 
them. The roofs of the turrets are small, conical and also made 
of stone The arrow slits of the turrets (rooms 23, 26 and 28) 
allow for effective cross-fire over the flat areas of roof. 


THE FALL OF THE KEEP 

Mighty as it was. the Keep of Adlerweg was vulnerable to the 
Gauntlet This artifact had been created specifically to 
overthrow the Keep and. on the hand of the ogrillon, it was able 
to fulfil its destiny at last. 

Leaving his retinue just out of sight of the Keep's defenders, 
the ogrillon smashed down the gate with his Gauntleted fist 
and cast a fear spell at the gatehouse (room 22). This threw the 
garrison into confusion and his small army was able to rush 
forward through the breach. After much hand-to-hand fighting 
the Keep was taken, the slain were stripped and burned and 
their remains cast into the chasm. 

Having taken the Keep, the Gauntletordered the capture of the 
daughter of Bloodflre. a fire giant warlord, and her incarcer 
ation in the hidden magical prison of the Keep It hoped to lure 
the giant to the Keep and so transfer itself to a more powerful 
bearer, The arrival of the giant and his army at the Keep forms 
the basis of THE SIEGE OF ADLERWEG (page 21). 

In the few days following the taking of the Keep and the arrival 
of the party, the ogrillon's troops have repaired the gale and 
have been organised into squads for the defence of the Keep. 
They have worked out how to use the mechanism in the 
defence room (room 14) and fully understand the layout of the 
tower. Even so, neitherthe ogrillon nor his troops are aware of 
the secret stairway which leads down from the tower to the 
undercroft, nor have they been able to penetrate the 
undercroft from the outside 



THE NEW GARRISON OF THE KEEP 

As the party arrives at the Keep, the new garrison is awaiting 
the return of the messenger sent to the giant. To wile away the 
time, some of the gnolis have taken flagons of wine from the 
stores and are busy drinking. As a result, several of them are 
intoxicated (see DMG p82~3). The effects of intoxication on hit 
points and intelligence have been included in the gnolis' 
statistics. 

The gnolis are all wearing leather armour with metal plates, 
and most are armed with battle-axes and longbows. Each gnoll 
with a bow has a quiver with 20 arrows, 

ENTERING THE KEEP 

The section of the pass near the Keep of Adlerweg is shown on 
map B The map shows the Keep, the main trackway, the path 
(area 3) leading to the upper gate of the Keep, the mountain 
slopes, the River Gann and one of its tributaries. 

The width of the track varies between 15 and 20 feet, and it is 
about 200 feet above the river here The mountain spur on 
which the Keep stands rises several hundred feet above the 
track 

Normal movement by the adventurers is only possible on the 
track and the path. Movement up, down or along the slopes is 
only possible by climbing Those with special climbing 
abilities will move at a rate of 12 feet per round with the normal 
chance of falling. Falling characters will drop and slide lOdlO 
feet and will suffer 1-6 hit points of damage per 10 feet fallen. 

If the adventurers follow the advice of the Sentinel (see 
encounter area 1), they will enter the Keep via the undercroft. 
The gnolis in thegatehouse (room 22) aredrunk to the point of 
incompetence, and those who are supposed to be on look-out 
on the platform (area 10) overlooking the trackway have 
abandoned their post and are drinking in the guardroom (room 
11} This means that the party will be able to move along the 
trackway and through the gate into the undercroft unnoticed. 

The variety of other ways in which the party might assault the 
Keep means that it is impossible to specify in advance how the 
characters might be noticed or how the garrison would 
respond In such cases, the defence of the tower against an 
external attack must be determined by the DM. 

Note that only the gnolis in the defence room (room 14) are 
actively and effectively on the look-out for an external attack. 
Normally, they will notice intrusions into the death room below 
{room 12) If any of the defenders notice the party before it has 
penetrated the Keep, the general alarm will be raised by 
messengers within two rounds. Once alerted, the squad in the 
guardroom (room 11) will move out onto the battlemented 
platform (area 10). The rest of the male gnolis who are not 
otherwise engaged will normally go to arrow slits, bows at the 
ready. 

The responses offered by the Keep's inhabitants to encounters 
with the party inside the tower are detailed in the room 
descriptions. Some of the squads will attempt to raise the 
alarm by sending messengers but the party may be able to foil 
these attempts. In general, male gnolis will move directly 
towards the party if they are alerted to its presence within the 
tower By contrast, the ogrillon and his close retinue will 
remain on the top floor, hoping that the others will be able to 
take care of the attackers. 


8 




THE RECAPTURE OF AOLERWEG (ENTERING THE KEEP: AREAS 1-3) 


The descriptions assume that it is daytime as the party 2. The Paths Divide 
approaches the Keep, If not, the DM should amend them 

accordingly. Near the Keep, the path to the upper gate splits off from the 

main track: 


1. Main Trackway 

The adventurers will have their first view of the Keep when they 
reach the point marked 1 on map B: 


As you round a bend in the pass, a daunting fortress 
comes into view. Us lofty bulk clings grimly to a steep 
sided mountain spur on the eastern side of the pass 
and the track you have been following runs directly 
beneath its walls. 


At this point, the DM should give the players the tear-out 
illustration from the back of this module (page 31) in order to 
give them a good idea of the shape of the Keep, 

Assuming that the Sentinel has been brought here by the 
party, it will tefepathically send a message to all the 


A narrow path branches off from the track. The track 
remains level but the path slopes upwards towards the 
Keep, suggesting access through an upper gate. 
Occasional snatches of raucous laughter and dis 
cordant song drift to your ears. 


From here the party can make out several details of the Keep's 
construction. The parapetted platform (area TO) may clearly be 
seen, supported by sheer walls which rise from the trackway. 
The lower gates (area 4) are obscured by the octagonal 
buttresses and there are no signs of movement from behind 
the parapet. Rising from the rear of the platform, the tower-llke 
upper part of the Keep can be seen, set against the mountain 
spur and having octagonal cornertowers which extend up into 
pointed turrets. The sound is that of drunken revelry in the 
tower. 


adventurers. The DM may either read out the following or 

paraphrase it: 3* Path to the Upper Gate 



My most noble friends, there stands the Keep of 
Adlerweg, 


In defence of its walls, a garrison of a hundred men 
might destroy an army of thousands, but it was my 
purpose to defend the Keep against the one force it 
could not withstand - the sorcerous wrath of the 
Gauntlet, 


But it seems that I have failed in this purpose, for I 
sense that the Gauntlet has captured the Keep and is 
firmly installed within its walls. Yet the Keep still 
stands, and while it does we may yet recapture it and 
destroy the Gauntlet's evil power. 


The Keep is, no doubt, well garrisoned and to attack it 
openly would be to invite a quick death. There is a 
better way, however, since my powers include that of 
opening the magically locked gates of the Keep. 


If the adventurers proceed up the path towards the upper gate 
of the Keep, they will be hidden from the defenders until they 
reach the point marked 3 on map B: 


If you follow the track, and are lucky enough to avoid 
the eyes of those who may be watching, you win come 
to the Keep's lower gates. These will open at the touch 
of the one who bears me. and beyond are chambers 
where you wilt find a stairway leading up into the heart 
of the Keep. The creature who bears the Gauntlet 
lurks high in the tower - seek him out and my destiny 
wilt be fulfilled. 


A short way along the path, you come to a point where 
it bends fairly sharply to the left around a body of rock 
which obscures your view of the Keep, 


Ignore the path which runs upwards from the track to 
the Keep's upper gate since this will surely be well 
guarded and not even my powers will open it for you. 


If the adventurers take a look around the rock (reasonable 
caution will ensure that they are not spotted) they will see the 
main edifice of the building: 


Make haste, for who knows what evil is being wrought 
there even now? From this point onwards I must 
remain silent. Though my other powers will remain 
available to you, 1 dare not speak into your minds for 
fear that the Gauntlet will sense my coming. 


Not far ahead of you the path comes to a small 
gateway at the base of the towering fortress. The path 
between here and the gate is completely over 
shadowed by the tower and a disconcertingly large 
number of arrow slits cover this exposed approach. 


May good fortune go with you 









THE RECAPTURE OF ADLERWEG (ENTERING THE KEEP: AREA 4 - UNDERCROFT: ROOM 5) 


If the adventurers openly proceed round the bend, they may be 
seen by the gnolls in the gatehouse (room 22) unless they 
conceal themselves in some way. It is up to the DM to decide 
how effective any concealment will be, taking account of how 
close the characters approach and the slackness of the watch 
being kept. If the party is spotted, the gnolls in the gatehouse 
will fire arrows at the party and raise the general alarm. 

The upper gate is made of iron-bound oak. It is raised and 
lowered by the winch in the gatehouse. It has been repaired 
since the tower was taken and can withstand 8 points of 
structural damage before giving way. Anyone moving right up 
to this gate unconcealed will automatically be seen from the 
gate watchroom (room 15) and the alarm will be raised. 

The exact response of the garrison as a whole to a general 
alarm is at the discretion of the DM, but likely courses of action 
would probably include the manning of the arrow slits 
overlooking the path from the gatehouse (room 22), the store 
(room 20) r the armoury (room 24), the lieutenant's room (room 
25) and the north-western turret (room 26). Note that there are 
murder holes between the gatehouse and the short passage to 
the upper gate. These can be used to pour burning oil (normal 
damage) on attackers or to fire arrows at them. 


4. Lower Gates of the Keep 



The lower gates of the Keep are magically locked but the 
Sentinel-wearer will be abie to open them. Since the gnolls in 
the guardroom (room 11) are not at their post on the 
battlemented platform (area 10) and the gnolls in the 
gatehouse (room 22) are drunk and are neglecting their duties, 
the adventurers will be able to reach the lower gates 
unnoticed, so long as they exercise reasonable caution: 


On the western side of the fortress, the wall which 
looms up from the track to the battlemented area has 
two large, tower-like buttresses. As you round the first 
of these, you find an impressive gateway occupying 
most of the width of the wall between them. 

The southern gateway may be described in similar terms when 
the party is able to see it 

Each gateway consists of a round-topped arch and has a pair 
of stone doors. The doors have no visible handles, locks, or 
hinges. Above each archway, a smooth, shield-shaped panel 
of stone bears the faded remains of a coat of arms. 


Both gateways (and the northern and eastern doors of the 
Gateway of Berghof - room 5) are magically locked by a long- 
forgotten. extra-powerful form of the wizard lock spell against 
which the knock spell is ineffectual. However, the doors will 
open automatically (swinging inwards) if touched by the 
wielder of the Sentinel, The doors may also be opened by 
means of a dispel magic spell (taking the level of the caster of 
the wizard lock as 15th), 

Characters who have read the book from the Hermitage (in 
module UK2-THE SENTINEL), which describes the history of 
the Van Arthog family, will be able to recognise the coat of 
arms as that of the Grand Dukes of Berghof (a title no longer in 
use). Its central motif is a tower with a winding path leading to 
its gate. Behind the tower is a rising sun and above this a 
crown, 


THE UNDERCROFT 

The chambers and passages of the undercroft have not been 
entered (except by the giant ants in the Guardian's Hall - 
room 7) for many years since the Guardians left the Keep, 

The players* descriptions assume that the adventurers have 
some light source. If not, the DM should amend the 
descriptions accordingly. Unless otherwise stated, rooms in 
the undercroft are 15 feet high. 


5. The Gateway of Berghof 

This room was once, quite literally, the Gateway of Berghof, 
since all traffic between Berghof and the coastJands was 
obliged to go through it. It is protected by three magical 
automatons. These would not normally present any danger to 
the party, but are now subject to being activated and de 
activated at random. The room is about 30 feet high: 


This is a targe and impressive room, The walls and 
ceiling are of a deep red, lustrous stone, flecked with 
glittering white inclusions. The floor is of a smooth, 
pale grey stone and has a large coat of arms inlaid in 
its centre. 

In an alcove in each corner of the room stands a large 
stone chair. Three of the chairs are occupied by 
strange, silent, unmoving figures which appear to be 
no more than suits of human-sized clothing, arranged 
as if worn by invisible, seated men. The chair in the 
south-eastern alcove is empty. 


The figures are: a suit of chainmail armour equipped with 
helm, shield and mace (north-western alcove): a rich, cowled 
robe with a staff (north-eastern alcove); and a suit of platemail 
armour with helm, shield and sword (south-western alcove). 
They are not invisible creatures, but are magically animated 
suits of clothing and equipment, given abilities which 
resemble those of the character classes they represent. 

If they are interfered with or attacked, or if the room or any of 
its contents are damaged, the figures will be activated and will 
attack any creatures in the room. 

The figures may also be activated by a control device in the 
Guardian's Hail (room 7), Since their arrival, the giant ants' 
movements over the control device have had the effect of 


10 





THE RECAPTURE Of ADLERWEG (UNDERCROFT S-7b) 


randomly activating and deactivating the figures. When the 
party enters this room, the figures will be inactive and seated in 
their alcoves. Each round thereafter, there is a 20% chance that 
an ant will activate them, and a 20% chance that they will be 
deactivated and return to their chairs. Even if an ant 
deactivates the figures, they will be immediately re-activated if 
the party continues to attack them. 

While moving and attacking, the movements of the figures are 
as if the clothing and equipment were being worn and wielded 
by invisible creatures. They will not move outside this room for 
any reason, and will take cover in their alcoves if fired upon by 
creatures they cannot reach. 

The chainmafl, shield and mace (AC 4; MV 9"; HD 6: hp 45; 
* AT 1; D 2-7; SA Fear; SD Need magical or silver weapons to 
hit; MR 25%, immune to sleep, charm, etc; Int Non; AL N; Size M; 
xp 620; THACO 13) have cleric-like abilities. Any character hit 
by the mace must save vs. Magic or be affected by the 
equivalent of a cause fear spell (the reverse of remove fear) 
which will last for six rounds. 

The robe and staff (AC 8; MV 12"; HD 6; hp 42; * AT Nil; D Nil; 
SA Magic missiles; SD Need magical or silver weapons to hit: 
MR 50%, immune to sleep, charm, etc; Int Non; ALN; SizeM; xp 
620; THACO N/A) represent a magic user and will fire two 
magic missiles every round. 

The plate mail, shield and sword (AC 2; MV 6"; HD 6; hp 50; 
-*AT 1; D 5-12 (dS+4); SA Nil; SD Need magical or silver 
weapons to hit; MR Std, immune to sleep, charm etc; Int Non; 
AL N; Size M; xp 525; THACO 13) are like a fighter, relying on 
good armour and brute force. 

Although the individual animated objects may be damaged 
during combat, each will fight at full capability until reduced to 
zero hit points, when the objects will crumble to dust. 

The figures were held in awe by travellers who regarded them 
as invisible guardians of the Keep. Held most in awe was the 
empty chair which men's minds filled with a number of 
unknown horrors. 

The coat of arms on the floor is that of the Grand Dukes of 
Berghof (a tower with a path leading to its gate, a rising sun 
behind and a crown above). It will be recognised by any 
characters who have read the book from the Hermitage (In 
module UK2 - THE SENTINEL) which records the history of 
the Van Arthog family. 

There are no items of value in the room. 

The northern and eastern doors of this room are identical to 
the western and southern ones. They are also magically locked 
In the same way (see the description of area 4). 


6. Toll Room 

This room was used for the collection of toils from travellers 
using the pass; it is unoccupied: 

* * 

This is a small, plain room. Projecting from the left- 
hand wail is a long, stone table with a pan-balance 
mounted on it near the right-hand end. Behind the 
table are a pair of chairs and a large iron-bound chest 
against the far wall. 

I_- 


The southern end of the table is supported by two slender, 
stone pillars. Next to the balance are a number of brass- 
coloured weights arranged neatly in a shallow depression. 

Coins from travellers were first weighed and then deposited in 
the chest. When the undercroft was abandoned, the chest was 
left empty. It has three locks. 

The only items of value in the room are the pan-balance and 
weights. These have the appearance of brass, and an apparent 
total value of Igp, they are actually made of a very hard- 
wearing alloy of gold and mithrai. The total value of the 
weights is 750gp and the pan-balance is worth IGOOgp if it is 
removed from the table. Removing the balance will not be 
difficult. 


7. Guardian's Hall 

This hall is being used as a nest by a small colony of giant ants 
who will attack the party if disturbed. They have divided the 
room into three parts with partitions made from mulched 
vegetable matter. The material of the screens will burn readily 
but will not alter the effects of any fire-based attacks. 

The southern part of the room (7a) is unoccupied, the middle 
part (7b) is the ants'general working and storage area, and the 
northern part (7c) is the queen ant's chamber. The descriptions 
of these three areas assume that the party first enters the hall 
through the southern door and proceeds northwards. If not, 
the DM should adjust them accordingly. 


Area 7a 

,f -------- - ---- 

This long hall appears to be empty but you cannot see 
the far end since it is obscured by an uneven screen of 
a paper-like material, The floor consists of green, red 
and white hexagonal tiles, each about 6 inches 
across, laid out in a regular pattern. The walls are pale 
grey and plain, as is the ceiling, 

- -* 

If the characters listen carefully, they wifi be able to hear the 
sound of movement behind the screen. So long as the screen 
remains unbroken, the ants will not attack the party in the 
southern part of the room. 


Area 7b 

s ¦ - 

Beyond the screen you find another section of the 
room but the far end is still obscured since there is a 
second screen. This is similar to the first except that 
there is a small hole in it near the floor. 

There are five giant ants working here, 

i - •___________ ___j 

The occupants are five giant worker ants (AC 3; MV 18"; HD 2; 
hp 7 each; # AT 1; D 1-6; SA NH; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Animat; 
ALN;SizeS;xp34 each; THACO 16; MM). They will attack any 
creatures who enter the nest or who damage the southern 
screen. When alarmed they will send a signal (a scent not 
noticeable by the party) to the worker and soldier ants in the 
queen's chamber (7c). These ants will join the fight in the next 
round although the queen herself cannot move. 


11 






THE RECAPTURE OF ADLERWEG (UNDERCROFT: 7c-8) 


The floor is covered with rubbish except for the area near the 
centre of the room surrounding a hole about a foot across. 
Hanging from the ceiling are five irregular bundles bound 
tightly with silk-like threads. 

The rubbish on the floor consists of vegetable matter, stones 
and the bones of small animals. It contains no items of value. 

The bundles hanging from the ceiling are the ants' foodstore. 
They contain a iamb, a rabbit, a lizard, a fire beetle (this bundle 
is glowing; if the party has no lights, the DM should mention 
this in the room description) and a jermlaine; all are dead. The 
fire beetle was killed five days ago and the luminosity of its 
glands will persist fortwo more days. The jermlaine is wearing 
an adjustable bracelet around its waist as a belt. The bracelet is 
made of gold and is set with small pieces of jade. Its apparent 
value is250gp. it is actually a magical item which will give the 
wearer the same swimming abilities as those given by 
gauntlets of swimming and climbing. Note that no climbing 
abilities are given and that any character may usethis item. Its 
actual value is SOOOgp (500xp), 

The entrance tunnel of the nest emerges through a hole in the 
floor. The tunnel is about 100 feet long. 15 inches wide and 
follows a slightly twisting course westwards and downwards to 
emerge on the mountain slope 30 feet below the main track. 
The western end of the tunnel is hidden from the track by 
rocks. 


Area 7c 


This is the final section of the room. The far wall bears 
a vivid mosaic. Lying on an altar-like table below this 
is the bloated mass of a queen ant 


The queen ant (AC 3; MV 0; HD 10; hp 48; #AT Nil; 
D Nil; SA Nil; SD Nil: MR Std; Int Animal; AL N; Size M; xp 0; 
THACO N/A; MM) can neither move nor attack. If the queen is 
killed, any surviving ants will become confused for six rounds 
and then attempt to leave the nest. 



The mosaic on the northern wall depicts the Sentinel. The tiny 
tiles representing the stone on the glove's ring are azurite and 
are worth a total of 8GQgp. 

The table on which the queen is lying incorporates the controls 
which activate and deactivate the figures in the Gateway of 
Berghof (room 5). The movements of the queen ant's 
attendants over the control panels were responsible for the 
random activation and deactivation of the figures. She is 
normally attended by four workers {AC 3; MV 18"; HD 2; hp 7 
each; a AT 1; P 1-6; SA Nil: SD Nil; MR Std; Int Animal: AL N; 
Size S; xp 34 each; THACO 16; MM) and four soldiers (AC 3; 
MV 18"; HD 3; hp 13each; ^AT 1; D2-8; SA Poison sting (3-12 
hit points of damage, 1-4 if save vs. Poison); SD Nil; MR Std; Int 
Animal; AL N: SizeS;xp 79each:THACO 16; MM) but the party 
will probably have met these already - either in area 7a or 7b. 


8* Painted Room 

This room was the private quarters of the Guardians, It is 
currently unoccupied: 


This octagonal room has a slender, stone pillar near 
the wall at each corner. The ceiling is painted to 
represent a domed roof, supported by these pillars, 
and the walls show a country scene which continues 
all the way around the room. With a little imagination, 
you could bestanding in asummer house, surrounded 
by pleasant pastures and woodlands, at the top of a 
grassy slope leading down to a large iake. 


This room was decorated in this way by Karl Van Arthog, the 
last of the Guardians of Berghof, to remind him of hrs home, 
the Lake-Side Villa (see UK2 - THE SENTINEL). All items of 
furniture were removed when he left. 

The doors of this room are well concealed by the painting and 
should be regarded as secret when closed, if viewed from 
inside the room. The north-western, north-eastern and south 
eastern doors will open automatically at the touch of the 
Sentinel-wearer, although they are not magically locked and 
may be opened in the usual way. 

If the players ask for a more detailed description of the wail 
paintings, the DM should mention that there are paths 
depicted on the north-eastern and north-western walls leading 
away from the summer house. These paths are clues to the 
presence of the doors in these walls. 

There is a small secret compartment in the top of the pillar on 
the north-eastern side of the door to the release chamber 
(room 9), This compartment is very well hidden (half normal 
chance of finding) and will onfy be found if the adventurers 
specifically examine the pillars. The compartment contains a 
tiny ivory casket with gold fittings (apparent value-50gp). The 
casket is the replica for a Leomund s secret chest and magic 
users in the party will have a 10% chance per level of 
recognising it as such. 

The large chest can only be retrieved if the words *Fram 
cweartern theostre, cume' are spoken while the replica is held. 
Directions for finding the casket and for retrieving the chest 
are given in the instruction book which may be found in the 
Castellan's room (room 27). The book and the contents of the 
Leomund's secret chest are described in THE SIEGE OF 
ADLERWEG (see page 25). 


12 




THE RECAPTURE OFAOLERWEG (UNDERCROFT:9- FLOOR 1:11) 


9. Release Chamber 

The door to this room is secret, ft may be opened by the touch 
of the Sentinel-wearer or in the usual way: 

f - ¦ - T -- V 

This room is circular and seems to be unoccupied. 
With the exception of a circular area in the centre of 
the floor, the walls, floor and ceiling are of a smooth 
pale grey stone. The circular area contains a stark 
spiral pattern in black and white. 

- _____ ^ 

This room will only become significant during THE SIEGE OF 
AOLERWEG (page 21), This is the place where creatures 
incarcerated in the Keep's magical imprisonment system may 
be released. The imprisonment system is described in THE 

MAGICAL PRISON (page 24). 


THE TOWER 

If the party follows the advice of the Sentinel and enter the 
Keep through the undercroft, they will enter the tower through 
the secret door on the stairway next to the dormitory (room 13) 
on floor 2. 

Unless otherwise stated, all other rooms and passages in the 
tower are 15 feet high, at! doors are of oak. 5 feet wide, 8 feet 
high and 3 inches thick, and ail floors/ceiiings are 5 feet thick. 
There are several chimneys in the building. These are only 6 
inches wide at their narrowest points. All windows are barred. 
The bars are half an inch thick and 6 inches apart. 

Unless otherwise stated, all descriptions of areas in the tower 
assume that the general alarm has not been raised, that it is 
daytime and that the party has a source of light for use in 
darkened areas. If this is not the case, the DM should amend 
them accordingly. 


FLOOR 1 

This level of the tower consists of a battlemented platform 
(area 10). two rooms and a stairway which leads to the higher 
levels of the tower. 


10. Battlemented Platform 

This platform overlooks the track below and is currently 
unoccupied: 

This is an open, flat area with a crenellated parapet. It 
extends outwards from the foot of the main fortress 
building on the south and west sides. The walls of the 
Keep look down on it menacingly. 

S-------- 

The crenellated parapet is about five feet high. The cut-out 
portions of thecrenellation are narrow, and the raised parts are 
each pierced by an arrow slit. Furthermore, there are arrow 
slits in the floor of the platform near the parapet, pointing 
obliquely downwards. 

If the general alarm has been raised, the gnolls from the 
guardroom (room 11) will be out on the platform. Otherwise it 
will be unoccupied. 


If the platform is deserted, and if they exercise reasonable 
caution, the adventurers will be not be seen on the platform by 
any of the garrison. If their presence becomes known, 
however, the platform is a very dangerous place for them to be. 
Different parts of it are overlooked from the dormitory (room 
13),, the defence room (room 14). the kitchen (room 18), the 
hall (mom 21) and the gatehouse (room 22). 


11. Guardroom 

The occupants of this simple guardroom are a drunken 
contingent of the gnoll garrison: 

r -- 

Slumped on a bench or lurching around the room are 
nearly a dozen tall humanoid creatures with grey 
skins and dog-like faces. Some are swigging from 
flagons and all are apparently drunk. They have axes 
and are wearing leather armour with metal plates. 

kv___ J 

There are 10 gnolls (AC 5; MV 9": HD 2: hp 12 each; * AT 1; 
D 1-8 {battle-axe} or 1-6 (longbow); SA -5 to hit; SO Nil; 
MR Std; Int Semi; AL CE; Size L; xp52each. THACO 20*: MM) 
in a state of great intoxication. If attacked, they will fight to the 
death, making no attempt to raise the alarm. They will move 
out onto the battlemented platform (area 10) if the general 
alarm is raised. Otherwise, they wiU not notice attempts by the 
party to enter the Keep unless they are actually attacked The 
personal treasures of the gnolls consist of 4d6gp each In 
addition, one of them has a silver napkin ring (value - 50gp) 

Against the northern wall is a long table with a bench beside it. 
Apart from the gnolls' longbows and quivers which lie in a heap 
on the floor, and their other personal possessions, the only 
items of value or interest in this room are 200 arrows in a locker 
and a bundle of 25 torches. Several empty and broken flagons 
are scattered around the room. 



13 








THE RECAPTURE OF ADLERWEG (FLOOR 1: 12 - FLOOR 2: 14) 

12 Death Room 

This entire room is a trap, operated from the defence room 
(room 14) above. It is designed to prevent attackers who have 
overrun the platform from entering the tower. To enter this 
room, the players will have to lift or bend the southern gate. 
They will be able to see through the bars, however: 

f ¦'1 

This is a plain room, hewn from solid rock, with 
blackened walls and ceiling. There are many 
suspicious holes in the ceiling, each about an inch 
across. There are two doorways, each only five feet 
high and barred by stout metal gates. 

^ - - --- 

The barred gates are opened and closed by the winch 
mechanisms in the defence room on the floor above. The gates 
slide vertically in slots cut into the door frames. The gates may 
be bent (-10% usual chance, see PHB p9) or lifted in the usual 
way by characters on this floor. 

Warning bells in the defence room will sound if the gates are 
lifted. The bells will alert the gnolls who will then raise the 
general alarm. The bells will not ring if the bars are bent. The 
gnolls in the defence room can see into the death room 
through the peep-hole at the top of the stairs between the two 
rooms. 

Once alerted, the gnolls will operate the burning-oil device if 
any attempt is made either to open the northern gate, or to 
block the holes in the ceiling. The device works by sending a 
shower of hot, burning oil into the death room through the 36 
holes in the ceiling. This oil will burn for five rounds during 
which it will cause 2-12 hit points of damage per round to any 
creatures in the room. 

The gnolls have enough hot oil in theircauldron in the defence 
room to operate the device six times. The device takes a while 
to reload and may only be operated once every six rounds, 

FLOOR 2 

This is the floor on which the party will most likely enter the 
tower It includes the defence room (a key point in the defence 
of the Keep) and the upper gate which is the normal entrance 
to the Keep. 


13. Dormitory 

Several gnolls, overcome by drink, have come here to sleep. 
They are relatively helpless but there are alert gnolls in the next 
room: 

'--- ' 

The air in this room is filled with the strong smell of 
sweat and the sound of none-too-gentie snoring. 
Much of the floor is covered with straw on which 
sprawl half a dozen humanoids wearing leather 
armour. One of them is clutching a flagon. 

L _______> 

There are six gnolls (AC 5; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 12 each; # AT 1; 
D 1-8 (battle-axe); SA -5 to hit; SD Nil; MR Std; tnt Semi; AL CE; 
Size L; xp 52 each; THACO 20"; MM) who are greatly intox 
icated and sleeping. The adventurers will normally be able to 
kill these gnolls without difficulty if they decide so to do 

14 


However, there is a 10% chance per round that each surviving 
gnoll will wake up. Once awake, the drunken gnolls will fight 
fiercely and wifi call for help. Their shouts wifi be heard by their 
companions in the defence room (room 14) unless the sound is 
suppressed in some way (eg by a silence spelt). 

Once alerted, the gnolls from the defence room will investigate. 
They will attack the party on sight and will attempt to raise the 
general alarm. 

The sleeping gnolls each have 4d6gp. In addition one of them 
has a silver mirror (value - 20gp) and another has a rock crystal 
gem (value - 14gp). 

If the adventurers take the opportunity to search the straw 
bedding, they will discover the following items: a small ivory 
ball (value-30gp), a pair of silver tweezers (value - 10gp), and 
6gp, I2sp and 15cp in coins. 


14. Defence Room 

This room is very important In the defence of the Keep since it 
contains the mechanism for springing the trap in the death 
room (room 12) below, The gnolls here are only a little drunk: 


The occupants of this large room are over a dozen taff 
grey humanoids with dog-like faces. They are armed 
with axes and long bows and wear leather armour. As 
they see you, they rush towards you menacingly. 

t_____ * 

There is a gnoll leader (AC 5; MV 9 M ; HD 3; hp 16;* AT 1; D 1 -8 
(battle-axe) or 1-6 (longbow); SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int 
Low-ave; AL CE; Size L; xp83: THACO 16; MM) and 14 gnolls 
(AC 5; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 9 each;** AT 1; D 1 -8 (battle-axe) or 1 -6 
(long bow); SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low; AL CE; Size L; xp 
46 each; THAC016; MM) who areal! slightly intoxicated. Their 
personal treasures are as follows: leader - 25gp plus a seal 
(with an eagle motif) made of jasper (value - 60gp); gnolls - 
6d6gp each. One has a gold medallion (value - 21gp) t and a 
silver table fork (value - 8gp). 

if they are attacked (or If attracted by noises from the 
dormitory - room 13) they will fight the adventurers to the 
death but two of them will attempt to raise the alarm in the rest 
of the Keep. 

The gnolls will notice if the party lifts the gates in the death 
room (room 12) and will react by raising the alarm and 
operating the burning-oil device (see below and room 12). 
Otherwise, they will not normally notice attempts by the party 
to enter the Keep unless the general alarm has been raised. 

The room is large, irregular in plan, with arrow slits in the 
south- and west-facing walls. It is dominated by a device 
designed to pour burning oil into the death room (room 12) 
below. The device consists of several components, including a 
large, iron cauldron mounted on brackets in the fireplace. A 
pipe with a tap runs out from the base of the cauldron and 
down to an empty, blackened, shallow trough cut into the 
floor. On either side of the trough, three short runnels with 
metal sluices lead to holes in the floor. Closer inspection of 
these holes will reveal that, immediately below floor level, they 
each sub-divide into six pipes sloping obliquely downwards. 

To operate the device, the tap is opened, allowing oil to pour 
into the trough. The oil is ignited and the sluices are opened, 







allowing it to pourdown into the death room through the holes 
The burning oil causes 2-12 hit points of damage per round to 
anyone in that room, and burns forfive rounds. Thedevice can 
only be used once every six rounds, however. 


15. Gate Watchroom 


This room was used by the porters of the Keep whose job it was 
to check the identity of visitors before admittance. There are 
some gnoll guards here now: 


There is enough oif in a full cauldron for six uses. There are 
seven jars next to the fire-place and each contains enough oil 
tooperatethe pouring device threetimes, but the oil is of a low 
grade which must be heated for two hours in the cauldron 
before it will burn. 


Seated around a small table in the centre of this small 
room are four tali humanoid creatures with grey skins 
and dog-like faces. Two of them are arm-wrestling 
while the other two cheer them on. 


There are two winch mechanisms which are used to raise and 
lower the gates of the death room. Each winch has a bell which 
rings if its gate is moved. 


The occupants are four gnolls (AC 5, MV 9": HD 2; hp 9 each; 
* AT l ;Dl-8 (battle-axe) or 1-6 {long bow); SA Nil; SD Nil: 
MR Std; Int Low; AL CE; Size L; xp 46 each; THACO 16; MM) 
who have had no alcohol. If they areattacked, they will attempt 
to flee and to raise the general alarm. They will notice if 
unconcealed characters enter the passage outside the upper 
gate or if attempts are made to open it, and will accordingly 
respond by raising the general alarm. Their personal treasure 
consists of 4d6gp each. In addition, one of them has a 
bloodstone gem (value - 34gp); and one is wearing what 
appear to be ordinary black armbands. In fact these are a 
perfect cure for insomnia, and anyone wearing them wiii have 
no trouble sleeping soundly and comfortably 


There are three benches, four tables and eight chairs. There 
are also seven lockers standing against the western and 
southern walls. None of these is locked or trapped. Their 
contents are: 


180 arrows, 

10 longbows, 20 bow strings, lumps of resin and tools for 
the repair and maintenance of bows. 

210 arrows, 

240 arrows. 

Bandages, splints, pots of ointment and three glass bottles. 
Each bottle contains one dose of a potion of healing (a 
viscous, colourless liquid with a sour taste). 

190 arrows. 

(Next to fire-place) Tools and materials for repair and 
maintenance of the burning-oil device. 


Apart from the objects already described, and the personal 
possessions of the gnolis, the only other items in this room are 
a small pile of firewood, a bundle of six torches, a large hour 
glass and a slate with a ptece of chalk attached toft by a string. 
The slate and chalk were used by the human guards of the 
Keep to note down passwords, times of arrival of visitors, duty 
rosters, etc. To while away the time, the gnoffs have covered 
the slate with illegible, meaningless scrawls. 


Other items around the room are flagons of wine, leather cups 
pewter platters, some bone dice, bone counters, two whet 
stones and 25 torches in a bundle, 


15 











THE RECAPTURE OF ADLERWEG ( FLOOR 2: 16 - FLOOR 3: 18) 



16. Stable 


There are three horses here. They were used by the original 
garrison but have been neglected by the gnolls: 

f ""V 

This is a stable, with five stalls against the eastern 
walk Three of these contain horses which whinny 
plaintively when they see you. They look under-fed 
and ungroomed, and the room smells as if the stalls 
have not been cleaned for many days. 

- _ j 

Each of these horses will adopt an uncommon loyalty (as if 
affected by an animal friendship sped) to the first character 
who feeds it or gives it water. All three are medium warhorses 
(AC 7; MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp 11(14), 8(12), 7(10); * AT 3; 
D 1-6/1 -6/1-3; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Sfd; int Animal; AL N; Size L; 
xp 68, 59, 56; THACO 16; MM) and are fully trained. Their full 
hit points will be restored by two weeks of proper feeding and 
grooming. 


17. Tack Room 

Having little interest in horses, the gnolfs merely ransacked 
this room leaving most of the contents intact: 

This room has many hooks, pegs and shelves on its 
wails, but all are bare. Everything in the room, 
consisting mostly of tack, harness and feed, has been 
thrown into a large, untidy heap on the floor. 

"._ 

ff the adventurers take the time to sort out the heap they will 
find 20 sacks of oats, six saddles, 10 bridles, eight saddlebags, 
two sets of leather barding, a set of chain barding, 12 saddle 
blankets, a small anvil, a small portable forge and bellows, 
blacksmith's tools, horseshoes, nails, four sacks of charcoal, 
leather-working tools, combs, brushes, saddlesoap and horse 
liniment. 


FLOOR 3 

This floor contains the kitchen and associated store rooms, the 
main hall of the Keep, and the gatehouse (the focus for the 
defence of the upper gate). 


18. Kitchen 

Warming herself before the fire is the gnoils f malicious old 
wise-woman with her pets; 

-- - - - i 

This room is filled with the smell of cooking meat. 
Seated in a chair before a fire at the western end of the 
room is an ancient female humanoid wearing a filthy 
leather apron and holding a knobbly staff. She is 
puffing on a large pipe and is surrounded by five 
bristly, dog-like creatures gnawing bones noisily. 

___ 

The old female gnoll is a 4HD witch doctor {AC 8 (feather armour 
only); MV 9*; C4/M2; hp 20; #AT 1; D 1-6 (club); SA Spell use; 
SD Nil; MR Std; Int Ave; AL CE; Size L; xp 205; THACO 15) and 
her pets are five hyenas (AC 7; MV 12"; HD 3; hp 16 each; #AT 1; 

D 2-8; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Animal; Al N; Size M; xp 83 
each; Thaco 16; MM). The wise-woman's spells are; 

First level: affect normal fires, cure light wounds (x3), 
shield. 

Second level; augury, chant. 

If possible, her first action when she sees the party will be to 
cast affect normal fires on her pipe and to hurl it in the direction 
of the adventurers. The burning pipe-weed will pour out 
noxious fumes which will rapidly fill the room. Any character 
inhaling these fumes will cough and choke for d6+2 rounds 
unless they make a successful saving throw vs. Poison. 
Affected characters will attack at -2 to hit and will have an 
armour class penalty of+2 until they recover. The gnoll and the 
hyenas will not be affected by the fumes. 

The wise-woman, aided by the hyenas, will fight the party - 
casting appropriate spells if possible She is somewhat over 
confident of her own powers and will not flee for help unless 
reduced to six or fewer hit points. 

Her personal treasure consists of a fine pipe made of ebony 
and inlaid with ivory, a small gold brooch with tiger eye stones 
(value - 200gp), a plain wooden pipe (the one she was 
smoking) and a pouch of unusual pipe-weed (enough to fill a 
pipe twice). Magic users wifi be able to produce the same 
choking effect as the old gnoll by casting affect normal fires on 
a burning pipe-full of the weed (the pipe's contents are 
consumed by this) but the magic user and his or her 
companions are not immune to the fumes. 

The hyenas have no treasure. 

At the western end of the room, a large piece of meat is cooking 
before the fire. I n the centre of the room are two large wooden 
tables. On these, and around the room, are scattered many 
items of kitchen equipment, food and scraps. There is a bread 
oven behind an iron door next to the fire. 

Unless the fight with the wise-woman has been unusually 
quiet, the men-at-arms in the fuel store (room 19) will realise 
that the tower is under attack and will cry out for help. Their 
cries will be audible in the kitchen. 


16 





THE RECAPTURE OF ADLERWEG {FLOOR 3: W-22) 


19. Fuel Store 

This is the fuel store for the Keep. The gnolls have imprisoned 
five of the original garrison here, who will call out to the party 
for help: 

t -v 

Slumped at the southern end of this small room are 
five wounded men. They are bound with rope and 
implore you to release them. The room appears to be a 
store for torches, firewood and coal. There are also 
some large earthenware jars. 


V. 



The bound figures are the survivors of the original garrison of 
the Keep. There are four men-at-arms (AC 10; MV 12"; F0; 
hp 3(5), 2(6), 2(5), 1(4); * AT 1; D By weapon; SA Nil; SO Nil; 
MRStd; Int Ave; AL NG; Size M; xp 13.12, 12,11;THACO 20') 
and a sergeant (AC 10; MV 12"; F2; hp 4(14); a at 1; D By 
weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Ave; AL NG; Size M; xp 47; 
THAGO20). They were wounded and captured by the gnolls, 
and have been kept alive only in order to suffer the torments of 
their captors. They have no equipment. 

They are bound but not gagged and will shout for help if f for 
example, they hear noise of combat nearby, if freed, healed 
and armed, these men will willingly aid the party. Their 
preferred weapons are the long sword and longbow, and they 
will wear any fairly- or non-bulky armour which they are 
offered (see DMG p27). 

if used wisely, the soldiers will be very useful to the party. The 
sergeant in particular may be a good source of information and 
advice concerning the defence of the Keep (see THE ATTACK 
BY THE FIRE GIANT - page 21). However, the DM should be 
careful to prevent the party from taking unscrupulous 
advantage of these men. They are experienced soldiers and 
will only take risks if these are seen to be shared equitably by 
the adventurers. 

In total, the room contains 52 sacks of coal. 31 bundles of 
torches (20 torches per bundle), 87 bundles of firewood and 12 
large jars. The jars contain the low-grade oil which is used by 
the burning-oil device in the defence room (room 14). This oil 
will not burn unless hot. There is enough oil in each jar for 
three operations of the burning-oil device. 


20. Food Store 

This is a general store. It is unoccupied: 


This room is piled high with food-stuffs and other 
stores, but there is a clear space along the western 
wall, and easy access to a deep alcove in the eastern 
wall* There is no sign ot any occupants, 

i _______ . 


The room contains large quantities of food, drink, tools, 
timber, ropes, furniture and other miscellaneous items. 

The eastern alcove contains a well This is a circular hole about 
200 feet deep. There is a pulley on the ceiling directly above the 
hole, and next to the well there is a winch for raising the bucket. 
The well is fed through porous bedrock and so there is no way 
in or out of the Keep through It. 


21, Hall 

The male gnolls have made a shambles of this room and some 
females are tidying up. They will flee when they see the party; 

-\ 

I Working to tidy a table in the centre of this large room 
are four tall, female humanoids with grey skins and 
dog-like faces. They are wearing filthy leather aprons 
over shapeless smock-like garments. When they see 
you they back away in fear and begin to shout and 
scream. 


There are four female gnolls (AC 8 (leather armour only); MV 
9"; HD 2; hp 9 each; * AT 1; D 1 -4 (miscellaneous weapons - 
dagger, toasting fork, meat cteaver and skewer); SA -1 to hit; 
SD Nil; MR Std: Int Low; ALCE; SizeL; xp35 each; THAC017; 
MM) who are moderately intoxicated. They will not be alarmed 
by noises from the kitchen (room 18) t but when they see the 
party they will attempt to flee and warn the male gnolte4n the 
gatehouse (room 22). If attacked, they will only fight back if 
cornered. They have 2d4gp each. In addition, one of them also 
has a silver arm-band (value - 60gp), 

The gnolls in the gatehouse (room 22) will be alerted if the 
females manage to open the door between the rooms or 
scream for two rounds unchecked. The males will then rush 
into this room and attack the party. 

In the centre of this room is a long wooden table with a bench 
on either side and a large, high-backed chair at one end. 
Scattered over the table and floor are the bones, scraps of food 
and broken vessels which the female gnolls were tidying up. 

Hanging on the northern wall of the room is a tapestry which 
has been slashed to ribbons. The tapestry once depicted the 
building of the Keep, and was a very fine work of art. In its 
present state, however, it is worthless. If it were repaired in 
some way (for example, by the use of 10 mending spells) it 
would be worth ISOOgp. 

Above the fireplace, a large shield-shaped panel once 
displayed the coat of arms of the rulers of Berghof. The 
original design is now almost totally obscured by a crude 
painting of the Gauntlet Standing against the wall in each of 
the south-western and south-eastern corners is a long wooden 
locker. The lockers contain arrows - 160 and 230 respectively. 


22. Gatehouse 

This room is a key point in the defence of the upper gate of the 
tower. The gate is raised and lowered from here, there are 
arrow silts which overlook the path and murder holes leading 
down to the passage in front of the gate. It is likely that the 
gnoll guards will have been alerted by the females In the hall 
(room 21) and will have attacked the party there. It so, the DM 
should amend the description accordingly: 


17 







THE RECAPTURE OF ADLER WEG (FLOOR 4; 23-24} 


' - ^ 

This is an odd-shaped room with many arrow slits in 
the walls. Scattered around the room are eight 
humanoids; tall and grey with dog-like faces. As you 
enter, flagons are cast aside and the creatures rush 
towards you, swinging battle-axes. 

% j 

The occupants are eight gnolls (AC 5; MV 9", HD 2; bp 9 each; 

AT 1; D 1-8 (battle axe) or 1-6 (longbow); SA Nil; SD Nil; 
MR Std; Int Low-ave; AL CE; Size L; xp 46 each; THACO 16; 
MM) who are moderately intoxicated. They will attack the 
party on sight or if they are alerted by the females in the hall 
(room 21). Once they have engaged the party, they will attempt 
to perform a fighting retreat up the stairs to floor 4 if things 
start to go badly for them. One of them has31gp plus a bottle of 
perfumed hair oil (value - 15gp). The others have 4d6gp each. 

At the discretion of the DM. the gnolls may notice creatures 
approaching the upper gate along the path and will then raise 
the general alarm (see area 3). They are oblivious to 
movements elsewhere outside the Keep. 


FLOOR 4 

This floor comprises the armoury and former chambers of the 
Castellan and his lieutenant. Included with these rooms are the 
turrets which guard the roof. 

This floor is currently occupied by the ogrillon and his retinue. 
They will not seek out the party if the general alarm is raised 
but will remain here, relying on the garrison to take care of the 
intruders. 


23. Eastern Turret 

This is a simple, unoccupied turret room: 


This octagonal room is empty except for a wooden 
locker in the centre of the floor Six of its walls are 
pierced by arrow slits with metal shutters which are 
hanging open. 

^^ 


There are a dozen stools in the room and a winch mechanism 
against the southern wall which moves the upper gate. 
Between the winch and the northern wall, murder holes 
(vertical tubes about 6 inches across) lead down through the 
ceiling of the short passage outside the upper gate. 

In the middle of the enlarged, western part of the room is a 
weapon rack with three wooden lockers on the floor beneath it. 
There are five longbows on the rack {in addition to those 
carried by the gnolls) and the contents of the lockers are as 
follows: 

- 180 arrows, 

- 225 arrows, 

- Bow strings, resin, tools, and other items for the repair and 
maintenance of bows. 

Near the winch there are 20 flasks of normal, inflammable oil 
with simple wicks. These will be ignited and thrown at the 
adventurers (causing normal damage) through the murder 
holes, if the party reaches the gate below. 



Thearrow slits of this room overlook the lower, eastern part of 
the tower roof. The locker is unlocked and untrapped. It 
contains 250 arrows. 


24. Armoury 

This is the armoury of the Keep. The ognflon's lieutenant is 
here with hts master's hounds. All will fight to the death to 
defend the ogrillon: 


Looming towards you from the centre of this armoury 
Is a very tall humanoid with violet, warty skin and 
vicious-looking talons. Slavering at Its feet are four 
huge, wolf-like creatures. 


The humanoid is an ogre (AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4+1; hp 23; *AT 1; 
D 1-10 {bare hands): SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std: Int Low; AL CE; 
Size L; xp 205; THACO 15; MM) and the other creatures are 
fourworgs (AC 6; MV 18"; HD 4+4; hp 24 each; * AT 1; D 2-8: 
SA Nil; SD Nil: MR Std; Int Low; AL NE; Size L; xp 210 each; 
THACO 15; MM). These creatures are fanatically loyal to the 
ogrillon and will fight to the death in his defence. 

The ogre's personal treasures are; 44gp in a belt pouch, a belt 
buckle (gold set with turquoise, value - 200gp) and the front 
cover of a magic user s high level spell book hanging around 
his neck on a leather thong. The ogre was attracted by this 
cover because of the semi-precious stones with which it is 
encrusted. Having torn the cover from the book, he then 
discarded the contents, considering them to be meaningless 
scrawls. Its value is 800gp. The spell book itself has long since 
turned to dust. 

The room is octagonal with a southward extension from the 
south-east corner. In the centre of the octagonal area is a 
weapon rack. Below this are four lockers on top of which lie 
heaps of swords and leather armour. Against the walls of the 
southern area are more racks, also with lockers beneath them. 

There are 14 longbows on the rack in the octagonal area. Three 
of the lockers beneath it contain arrows - 180. 210 and 175 
respectively. The fourth locker contains materials and tools for 
the repair and maintenance of bows. 


18 







THE RECAPTURE OFADLERWEG (FLOOR 4: 25*27} 


The weapon racks in the southern portion of the room hold: 
three battle axes, four daggers in scabbards, two footman's 
flails, 15 halberds, four footman's maces, eight spears, two 
bastard swords with scabbards, three broadswords with 
scabbards, eight longswords with scabbards and one two- 
handed sword. 

There are six lockers below these racks. Piled on top of them 
are IB longswords and 12 suits of leather armour. These are 
the usabie items stripped from the bodies of the Keep's original 
garrison. 

The contents of the lockers are as follows (the armour is all 
human-size): 

- Three suits of chainmai! armour, 

- Two suits of chainmai! armour, 

- Two suits of platemail armour, 

- Six small shields, 

- Eight helmets, 

- Various tools and materials for the repair and maintenance of 
weapons and armour, eg oil, brushes, whetstones, sand. 

Also in the southern part of the room is a bed of straw used by 
the worgs, 


25, Lieutenant's Room 



This room was formerly occupied by the Castellan's lieutenant. 
Since the capture of the Keep, the ogre has taken it over and 
has not been particular about keeping the room in its original 
neat condition: 

¦-\ 

This room was well furnished at one time but it has 
been reduced to a shambles. The furniture - a couple 
of chairs, a desk, a bed and a smalt, empty weapon 
rack - suggests that it was a bedroom/study. 

i 

The desk had several drawers, but these have been pulled out 
and smashed. Their contents, consisting mostly of pieces of 
parchment, have been scattered around the room. The bed is 
unmade and dirty. Lying over it is a carpet, which the ogre uses 
as a blanket. 

The role of the previous occupant was largely administrative, 
although he was also a good fighter, and the papers are 
concerned with the day-to-day running of the Keep. 


26. North-Western Turret 

This is a plain, unoccupied turret room; 

'-- - 

This octagonal room is empty except for a wooden 
locker in the centre. There are arrow slits fn af! but one 
of the walls, with metal shutters hanging open. 


The arrow slits of this room, and those of the southern turret 
(room 28) look out over the upper part of the roof of the Keep. 
The locker contains 220 arrows. 


27, Castellan's Room 

Here, the party will encounter the ogrillon wearing the 
Gauntlet. Before they can do anything, however, the creature 
will seek refuge in the Keep's magical prison. Soon after this, 
the fire giant will arrive at the Keep to besiege it: 

--i 

The sole occupant of this well-furnished room is a 
man-sized humanoid creature with brown skin and 
dark, unkempt hair. It looks mlidly ridiculous since it 
is wearing a rich but ill-fitting robe. On its left hand 
there is a black, leather, studded gauntlet. 

When it sees you, the creature quickly brings its 
hands together and mutters a word or two. For a 
moment, it is transparent and then it vanishes 
completely. Some glittering shards hang suspended 
in the air for a few seconds and then fall to the floor. 


Realising that its foe has efuded it, the Sentinel will send out an 
anguished telepathic message to the adventurers: 

What trickery is this? Is the Gauntiet in such awe of me 
that it dare not face me? But wart though it has gone I 
sense it stilt.,. It is close, yet I know not where. You 
must find it or all our efforts will have been in vain. 

L _ J 

The ogrillon has escaped the party by deliberately sending 
itself into the Keep's magical imprisonment system. The 
adventurers are free to examine the room and its contents, but, 
five rounds after the ogrillon vanishes, they will be interrupted 
by the arrival of the fire giant and his army to besiege the Keep 
(see THE SIEGE OF ADLERWEG page 21), 

With the abrupt removal of the Gauntlet's influence, ail 
surviving members of the ogrillon's garrison will be affected by 
the equivalent of a fear spell and will flee the Keep (if possible) 
by the shortest possible route, never to return. 

The room is well-furnished. There is a polished desk in the 
centre of the room with an open book on it, a four-poster bed 
against the northern wail, and three comfortable-looking 
chairs arranged around the fireplace in the eastern wall Next 
to the southern wall are a weapon rack, a chest and a bare 
manikin. The floor is carpeted and there is a tapestry on the 
wall next to the bed. 

If the fallen shards are examined, the party wifi conclude that 
they are the fragments of a shattered black gem. The gem was 
the key which the ogrillon used to imprison himself. 


19 










THE RECAPTURE Of ADLERWEG (FLOOR 4: 28) 


The book on the desk contains details of the Keep's magical 
prison. The imprisonment system is described in THE 

MAGICAL PRISON (page 24). 


scroll of protection from demons and a quantity of broken 
glass - the remnants of several other potion bottles smashed 
when the chest was originally opened. 




The drawers of the desk (which are unlocked and untrapped) 
contain quills (including two magical quills which allow the 
writer to work twice as swiftly, except on magical scrolls or 
spelf books), ink, penknives, pieces of parchment, the former 
Castellan's letter of authority, personal tetters written to him by 
his wife and miscellaneous papers relating to the day-to-day 
running of the Keep. 

The bed and chairs are unexceptional, but the bed is covered 
by a giant beaver pelt (value - 6DQgp). The weapon rack holds a 
longsword +2 (NSA) in a scabbard, a dagger in a scabbard, a 
longbow and a quiver containing 20 arrows. 

Thechest is unlocked. When the Keep was taken, the lock was 
smashed by an unwary gnoll. This set off an explosive trap, 
which killed the gnoll and singed the carpet nearby. The chest 
may now be opened easily and safely. It contains a tunic with 
matching robe (silk with fox fur trim; value - tunic 100gp f robe 
150gp), two pairs of boots, a stoppered bottle containing a 
potion of invulnerability (two doses * pale blue liquid, 
transparent and tasteless), a bone scroll case containing a 


The arrow slits of this room, and those of the north-western 
turret (room 26) look out over the upper part of the roof of the 
Keep. The focker contains 190 arrows. 


The manikin has a secret compartment in its base, in which is a 
small bag containing 350pp and a key to the chest. 


The tapestry depicts a battle scene, it is worth 70Ogp. The 
carpet is worth only lOOgp because of the damage done to it. 


28. Southern Turret 


This is a plain, unoccupied turret room: 


This room is empty except for a wooden locker in the 
centre of the floor It is octagonal and has an arrow slit 
in all but one of its walls. These slits have metal 
shutters which are hanging open. 


20 









































THE SIEGE OFADLERWEG 


After taking the Keep* the Gauntlet's thoughts turned to plans 
of further conquest for which, It reasoned, a more powerful 
wielder would be required, Drawing from the ogrillon's 
memories, it learned of an excellent candidate - a fire giant 
who had established himself locally as a warlord. The problem 
was how to lure the giant to the Keep, 

The solution lay in the giant s daughter, who was known to go 
hunting alone in the mountains, A squad of gnolls was 
despatched, the giantess was captured and then brought to 
the Keep where the ogrilJon imprisoned her using some 
magical gems which it had found (see THE MAGICAL PRISON 
- page 24). Unfortunately* he had no means of releasing her! 

Caring little for the fate of the giantess, the ogrillon sent a gnoll 
to the fire giant with the message that his daughter would be 
returned if he came alone to the Keep, bringing a fortune in 
gold and gems. The giant's response to this was to gather an 
army and to march on the Keep. His arrival and siege of the 
Keep raise the curtain on this part of the module. 


SUMMARY OF THIS PART OF THE MODULE 

This section is quite different to a normal module adventure 
where the sequence of events is dictated primarily by the 
movement of the adventurers from place to place. Starting 
almost immediately after the encounter between the party and 
the ogrillon in the Castellan's room (room 27), the adventure 
follows a series of events (detailed below) which take place in 
and around the Keep: 

1. The fire giant's army arrives at the Keep and lays siege to 
it. The Keep is a good defensive position, however, and the 
party should be able to repulse the first assault. 

2. After the first attack, the giant will parley with the 
adventurers. In return for his daughter's freedom, he will 
swear to depart and to spare their Jives, 

3. If they agree, the adventurers must find the secret of the 
Keep's magical prison in order to free the giant's daughter. 
The giant and his retinue will then leave as promised. 


4. Finally, the party will be urged by the Sentinel to release 
the Gauntlet from the magical prison and to destroy it. The 
Gauntlet, however, will have changed bearer while 
imprisoned. The ogrillon will re appear as a helpless 
wretch while a giant two-headed troll will emerge wearing 
the Gauntlet! With skill and luck the party will be able to 
overcome the troll, destroy the Gauntlet and so fulfil the 
destiny of the Sentinel and complete the adventure. 

During these events, the party will generally have freedom of 
movement around the Keep. The DM should use the maps and 
descriptions used in THE RECAPTURE OF ADLERWEG 
(pages 7 - 20, ignoring those occupants which have been killed 
or have fled) with particular reference to the defensive devices 
and the useful supplies (arrows etc) stored around the 
building. 


STARTING THE SIEGE 

The siege will begin very soon after the encounter between the 
adventurers and theogrilion in the Castellan's room (27) .If the 
adventurers decide to examine the book lying open on the 
Castellan's desk during this time, the DM should refer to THE 
INSTRUCTION BOOK (page 25). However, they will not have 
enough time to make a useful study of it. 

Five rounds after the ogrillon has vanished, the party will be 
madeawareof thearrival of the giantand his army. The giant s 
forces will be deployed as shown on the PLAN OF BATTLE 
(see page 23). 

If they have been keeping watch, the characters will see the 
giant's forces taking up position (the giant, his retinue and the 
flying creatures will come over the ridge from the west and the 
infantry will march in columns along the track from the north), 
tf not, their attention will be drawn by a raucous blast from the 
giant's trumpeters and the crash of the first rock (hurled by the 
giant) against the wall of the Keep once the troops are in 
position. The attack will then begin. 

All the details required by the DM to conduct the siege are 
given on the following two pages 


THE ATTACK BY THE FIRE GIANT 


IMPORTANT: the DM is advised not to look on the giant's 
attack as a means of massacring the party but as an exciting 
prelude to the parley and the rest of the adventure. There is a 
limit to the losses which the infantry will tolerate before 
withdrawing (see THE INITIAL ASSAULT - page 23) and it is 
likely and desirable that the first wave of the attack will be 
repulsed by the adventurers. The giant will then open 
negotiations with the party for his daughter's release (see 
PARLEY WITH THE GIANT - page 24). 

In most cases, the adventurers will have the upper hand in the 
battle since the tower is an excellent defensive position (eg 
arrow-slits give a -10 AC bonus: see DMG page 64), which is 
well stocked with the means for defence (arrows, oil etc). This 
is especially true if the men-at-arms (from room 19) have been 
released, since they are all able to use long bows and are well 
versed in the defensive aspects of the building. If the party 
shows signs of putting up a poor defence, the DM may use the 
soldiers as a source of information and advice. 


If the attack shows signs of succeeding, the DM has two 
options. If, by silly actions, the adventurers have put up a very 
poor defence, they should suffer the fate they deserve. If, 
however, they are in peril of being overrun despite having put 
up a brave and well-pfanned defence, eg because of bad luck, 
heavy losses or depredation earlier in the adventure, the DM 
should cause the hobgoblin platoons to withdraw with fewer 
casualties and start negotiations earlier. 

In general, the aim of the DM should be to provide an exciting 
adventure without giving the players an impossible task or an 
easy ride. 

Note that the ogrillon's forces will flee when he imprisons 
himself, and that the special magical nature of the lower gates 
(those leading into the Gateway of Berghof - room 5) means 
that they will automatically close (even if wedged open) when 
the attack begins, thus preventing entry through the 
undercroft. 


21 



THE SIEGE OF ADLERWEG (THE FIRE GIANTS ARMY) 


THE FIRE GIANTS ARMY 


The frre giant's army consists of eight squads: his personal 
retinue, a squadron of four manticores, a pack of screaming 
devilkins and five platoons of infantry. The giant is an able 
leader, his forces are well-trained and their morale is high. 


Descriptions and Personal Treasure 

The fire giant wields a huge two-handed sword (not usable by 
the adventurers). His personal treasure consists of this sword 
and the platemail armour he is wearing. The armour is gilded 
and the sword is encrusted with precious and semi-precious 
stones. The sword is worth 600gp and the armour 3000gp. 
Both would require a specialist buyer, however. 

The giant keeps with him an elite corps of followers, 
comprising four he!J hounds and 12 hobgoblins, who will never 
desert him under any circumstances, Thehefi hounds have no 
personal treasure, but the hobgoblins each have 
2-20gp in mixed coins, small gems, and/or cheap jewellery. 


Four of them have long, brass trumpets (value - 50gp each). 
The airborne division of the giant's army comprises a 
squadron of four manticores, and a pack of four screaming 
devilkins. None of these creatures has any personal treasure. 

The hobgoblin sub-chief wields a longsword with +2 damage, 
has 50gp in coins and small gems, and wears a platinum 
choker (value-200gp). He will not normally join in the infantry 
attacks. 

There are five platoons of infantry (referred to by the letters 
A-E) under the overall command of the hobgoblin sub-chief. 
Each consists of a hobgoblin sergeant and 30 hobgoblin 
troops. Platoon B has a battering ram. 

The hobgoblin sergeants use normal longswords. Each has 
2-20gp worth of mixed coins, gems and/or cheap jewellery. 

Each of the 150 hobgoblin troops has 1-10gp worth of mixed 
coins, gems and/or cheap jewellery. 


(I) Giant s Retinue 


Name 

No. 

AC 

MV 

HD 

hp 

-AT 

D 

SA 

SD 

MR 

m 

AL 

S 

*P 

THACO 

Source 

Fire giant 

t 

3 

12" 

11+3 

71 

1 

5-30 

Rocks 

Immune 
to fire 

Std 

A v(c) 

LE 

L 

4012 

10 

MM 

Hell hound 

4 

4 

12" 

7 

42 each 

1 

1-10 

Breath 

Nil 

Std 

Low 

LE 

M 

506 each 

13 

MM 

Hobgoblin 

12 

5 

9" 

1+1 

8 each 

1 

T8 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Ave 

LE 

M 

36 each 

18 

MM 

(11) Airborne Division 














Name 

No, 

AC 

MV 

HD 

hp 

* AT 

O 

SA 

SD 

MR 

Ini 

AL 

s 

xp 

THACO 

Source 

Manticore 

4 

4 

12718" 

6+3 

36 each 

3 

1-3/ 

1-3/1-0 

Tail 

spikes 

Nil 

Std 

Low 

LE 

L 

813 each 

13 

MM 

Screaming 

Devllkin 

4 

2 

12" 

3 

17 each 

1 

1-6 

Scream 

Nil 

Std 

Low 

LE 

S 

141 each 

16 

FF 

(lit) Infantry Platoons 














Name 

No. 

AC 

MV 

HD 

hp 

- AT 

D 

SA 

SD 

MR 

Int 

AL 

s 

*P 

THACO 

Source 

Hobgoblin 

Sub-chief 

1 

3 

9" 

3 

16 

1 

3-10 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Ave 

LE 

M 

83 

16 

MM 

Hobgoblin 

Sergeant 

5 

5 

9" 

1+1 

9 each 

1 

1-8 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Ave 

LE 

M 

38 each 

18 

MM 

Hobgoblin 

150 

5 

9" 

1+f 

6 each 

1 

1-8 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Ave 

LE 

M 

32 each 

18 

MM 


Casualty record (tick boxes with pencil to record losses). 

Fire Giant Q 


Hobgoblins G G G D 

? ???????? 


Screaming Devilkins 

? ? ? ? ? 


Hell Hounds 

o ? ? 


Platoon A: Sergeant D 
TroopsD ??????? 

??????????a 

??????????a 


Platoon B: Sergeant ? 
I roopsO ??????? 
??????????? 

??????????? 

(has battering ram) 


Hobgoblin Sub-chief 

? 


Platoon C: Sergeant D 
TroopsDD ?????? 

??????????a 

??????????a 


Manticores 

? ? ? 


Platoon D Sergeant D 

TroopsD ? ?????? 

??????????a 

??????????? 


Platoon E: Sergeant ? 
TroopsQD ?????? 

??????????a 

??????????? 


22 



THE SIEGE OF ADLERWEG (INITIAL ASSAULT) 



BATTLE PLAN 


1-1 

-1 \ 

INFANTRY 

? 

GIANT'S 

RETINUE 

o 

FLYING 

CREATURES 

\ 

/ 

^ MOVES 


INITIAL ASSAULT 

The following is a description of the initial assault on the Keep 
by the giant's army. It is recommended that the DM changes 
the details of the attack only under exceptional circumstances. 
The deployment and movements of the army are shown on 
THE BATTLE PLAN above. The attack will take place In several 
phases: 

(i) Taking position. The army will take up position as shown 
on THE BATTLE PLAN. The giant's retinue and the flying 
creatures will come over the ridge from the west and the 
infantry will march in columns along the track from the north. 

(it) Distracting the defenders. The giant will attempt to distract 
the defenders in two ways. Firstly, he will hurl small rocks at 
the Keep, (while staying beyond longbow range). These rocks 
will not affect the building but will make a lot of noise. He will 
stop throwing once his infantry reach the Keep. 

At the same time, the screaming devilkins will fly across the 
valley to the Keep, enter it by squeezing between the bars of 
windows (chosen at random) and search for defenders. When 
any characters are found, the devilkins will attempt to cause as 
much confusion as possible. Their screams may be particularly 
effective in this respect. 

(iii) Main assault. The main part of the initial assault consists 
of a two-pronged infantry attack on the Keep. 


Platoon A will move along the track until it is beneath the 
western side of the battlemented platform (area 10). Arriving 
there at the same time will be two of the manticores. Each of 
these will be carrying two hobgoblins from the giant's retinue, 
equipped with ropes. Using their tail-spikes to distract the 
defenders, the manticores will support the hobgoblins while 
they attach ropes to the battlements for the troops below to 
climb up. If the hobgoblins of platoon A reach the platform 
(area 10), they will attempt to enter the Keep through the guard 
room (room 11). 

Platoon B will advance along the upper path and assault the 
upper gate with the battering ram. The upper gate will 
withstand eight rounds of battering by the ram before giving 
way. Once the gate is down, the hobgoblins will rush into the 
tower. 

Either platoon will fall back should 15 or more of its members 
be killed or incapacitated. The sergeants count as the 
equivalent of four hobgoblins in this respect. 

If the initial attack is repulsed, the giant will parley with the 
Keep's defenders (see PARLEY WITH THE GIANT - page 24}. 

If this attack succeeds, the giant will signal the three platoons 
in reserve to rush into whatever breach or breaches have been 
made. He will oniy risk his own life if success seems certain. 


23 








THE SIEGE OF ADLERWEG 


PARLEY WITH THE GIANT 


If the initial assault is repulsed, the giant will parley with the 
adventurers for the release of his daughter, shouting his 
demands (in the common tongue) across the valley. The DM 
should read out or paraphrase the following, in order to open 
negotiations and then continue them as a conversation: 

r ---- - l - 1 

"Worthless ogrillon? Your flea-bitten gang may have 
set back the first and least of my attacks, but do not 
deceive yourself that you have won, 

"Never will I leave so long as you hold my daughter 
prisoner. Set her free from your sorcerous prison and 
i will spare your worthless lives. Refuse and I will grind 
your miserable bones into the dust, and cast down 
your petty tower 'til no stone remains standing, 

"You have two hours. Think not of escape for I have 
many eyes and I would take pleasure in hunting you 
down like the dog that you are." 


The giant will be surprised and interested if he discovers that 
the Keep is no longer under the control of the ogrillon. but this 
will not cause him to alter his demands or conditions. He 
knows little about the circumstances of his daughter's 
imprisonment but has heard rumours of the Keep's 'sorcerous 
prison 1 . The giant's alignment is lawful evil and he will be 
prepared to swear that he will fulfil his part of the bargain. 


If the adventurers decide to attempt to release the giantess, the 
DM should refer to THE MAGICAL PRISON below. If they 
succeed, and return her to her father, he will depart with his 
army and not return, irrespective of whether he has formally 
sworn the oath so to do. 

The giant does indeed have 'many eyes'. Not only will any 
surviving flying creatures in his army survey the Keep from the 
air, but the eyes of his hell hounds (able to detect hidden or 
invisible creatures 50% of the time) will be constantly on the 
look-out. Should the adventurers be seen escaping, the giant 
and his forces will run them down without mercy. 

If the party is not able or willing to release the giantess, the 
giant's army will attack again when the time is up. This time, he 
will personally risk the arrows of the defenders and will open 
his attack by hurling a series of large rocks against the north 
side of the tower until a breach is made. 

Each rock causes 1 point of structural damage against hard 
stone. Any 10-foof by 10-foot section of tower wall can sustain 
15 points of structural damage before yielding. Alternatively, 
the giant's rocks will each inflict 4 points of structural damage 
against the wood of the upper gate which can sustain 8 points 
of damage before yielding. 

Once a suitable breach has been made, the giant's army (their 
morale restored by the giant after the initial setback) will 
attack.... 


THE MAGICAL PRISON 


The prison of the Keep does not consist of a physical pi ace but 
employs a variant of the imprisonment spell. When the Keep 
was first built, four magical cells were established and the 
Castellans, as jailors, were provided with a number of magical 
gems with which to operate the system. Black gems allowed 
the user to imprison creatures in a specified cell, while white 
gems were used to release them. 

An instruction book and a supply of black and white gems were 
given to the Castellans, but a number of white gems were 
mislaid. Since the gems could each be used only once, the time 
came when only two black gems remained. This made the 
system useless and left some prisoners trapped in the cells 
(see PRISONERS - page 2$). 

The book is on the desk in the Castellan's room (room 27) and 
is described below (see THE INSTRUCTION BOOK - page 25). 

The last Guardian hid an emergency supply of four white gems 
in a Leomund s secret chest, the replica of which is hidden in a 
compartment in the painted room in the undercroft (room 8). 
The instruction book includes a reference to these gems but 
the secret door leading to the undercroft had been forgotten, 
and so the gems could not be found. 

The instruction book and the two black gems were found by 
the ogrillon when the Keep was taken. When the giantess was 
brought to the Keep, the ogrillon imprisoned her with one of 
the remaining black gems, heedless of the problem of her 
release. When confronted by the adventurers and the Sentinel 
(in room 27) t the Gauntlet will have forced the ogrillon to 
imprison itself using the final black gem in a bid to escape. 

24 


The soldiers (from room 19) have heard of the magical prison 
and will have some idea what the giant is talking about when he 
makes his demands. If asked, they will fell the adventurers that 
they have heard of the prison, but that the Castellan would 
have been the only person to have known anything about it. 


Imprisoning Creatures 

This process can take place anywhere in the Keep, All that is 
necessary is that the victim is touched with a black gem and the 
words 4 Go hence unto....' are uttered, followed by the number 
of the cell to which the captive should go. The creature will 
fade and vanish as it is sent to the cell and the black gem will 
break into fragments. The creature will not be imprisoned (and 
the gem will remain whole) if an occupied cell is specified. 


Releasing Creatures 

This can only take place in the release chamber (room 9). To 
release a prisoner, a white gem is placed on the spiral pattern 
in the centre of the floor and the command 'Gome forth 
from.... 1 , followed by the cell number, is spoken, A few 
moments later the gem will shatter and the prisoner will appear 
in the centre of the room. If an empty cell is specified or if the 
procedure is carried out other than in the release chamber, 
nothing will happen and the gem will remain whole. 

In either case, there is no saving throw for the captive, and 
while imprisoned, creatures are affected by the equivalent of a 

temporal stasis spell. 




THE MAGICAL PRISON 


THE INSTRUCTION BOOK 



The book may be found on the Castellan's desk (room 27). It 
has a rich, tooled leather binding with the words 'The Prison' in 
gold leaf on the spine. The front cover is nearly an inch thick 
and has 36 padded compartments (each about half an inch 
wide and deep) hollowed out on the inside. These compart 
ments held the black and white gems used to operate the 
prison. All are now empty. 

The first five pages of the book explain how the imprisonment 
system is operated. When the adventurers read the book the 
DM should give the players a summary of the procedures 
detailed in THE MAGICAL PRISON (page 24). 

The sixth page contains a reference to a cache of white gems 
for use in an emergency. Their location is given as the secret 
compartment at the top of one of the columns in the'..,.painted 
room with pillars beneath the Keep' (room 8), The text does not 
describe how to get to the room but, once there, the 
adventurers will automatically be able tofind the compartment 
following the directions given. 

The book contains no reference to the Leomund's secret chest 
since the last Guardian only decided to leave this at the Keep 
as a last-minute emergency measure (see THE SECRET 
CHEST), 

The next three pages contain records of prisoners kept In the 
cells. All but the last two entries (shown below) have been 
carefully crossed out: 

- (Neatly written) Cell 4; Lorganarch'. The date given for its 
imprisonment is about 50 years ago. There is no release date 
given. 

- (Scrawled) 'Bloodfire's daughter - number 3'. 

Although the reference to the imprisonment of the fire giantess 
in cell 3 Is correct, the detention of a volt in cell 2 was never 
recorded. Also, as a result of the exchange it has performed, 
the Gauntlet is now in cell 4 with the giant two-headed troll 
(see RELEASING THE PRISONERS). 

There follow seven blank pages. 

Written on the inside of the back cover are the words Tram 
cwearfern rheasfre, cume\ These are the command words for 
the return of the Leomund's secret chest whose replica was 
hidden in the the painted room (room 8). 


THE SECRET CHEST 

The secret compartment in the painted room (room 8) 
contains the small replica of a Leomund's secret chest. The 
large version, stored on the ethereal plane, may be recalled by 
holding the small casket and saying Tram cweartern theostre. 
cume\ 

The chest contains the revenant (AC 10; MV 9"; HD 8; hp 45; 
# AT 1; D 2*16; SA Paralysation; SD Special; MR Special; 
Int Exceptional; AL N; Size M; xp 1725; THACO 12; FF) of a 
ninth level fighter who was accidentally killed by Karl Van 
Arthog, the last of the Guardians, Karl was pursued by the 
revenant and, just before leaving the Keep, managed to trap it 
in the chest and then consign it to the ethereal plane. In so 
doing, however, he was forced to leave the emergency supply 
of white gems and certain of his possessions in the chest. 

In order to protect the embarrassing secret of the revenant's 
existence, Karl made no mention of it either verbally or in the 
instruction book He felt justified in this since he was confident 
that the creature would soon be dispelled or otherwise 
banished. He did, however, write the control words for the 
chest on the inside of the back cover of the instruction book. 

Unfortunately for him, the decomposition of the revenant did 
not continue on the ethereal plane. Furthermore, its willpower 
and intense desire to return to the prime material plane for 
revenge enabled it to prevent the chest from being lost in the 
ether over the long period that it has been there. 

When the adventurers open the chest, the DM should not 
identify the revenant to them, but merely describe it. The 
revenant will rise from the chest muttering 'At last' and then 
brush past the adventurers before departing on its hopeiess 
quest for Karl Van Arthog (who is long since dead). It will not 
attack the adventurers unless they attack it. 

Also in the chest are two bags and a small wooden box. The 
first bag contains four white gems for the magical prison. The 
second bag contains a set of 12 violet garnet buttons (value 
4Q0gp each, or 6GO0gp the set). The box contains a necklace of 
missiles which has one 5-hit-dice-fireball globe and two 3~hit- 
dice-fireball globes. 


RELEASING THE PRISONERS 

It is essential that the adventurers realise that both the giantess 
and the ogrillon are incarcerated in the magical prison and that 
they read the instruction book in order to find out how it works. 
Under certain circumstances, the DM may be forced to drop 
hints (probably via the Sentinel) until the players work out 
what is going on. 

The release of the prisoners can only take place in the release 
chamber (room 9) and the party will need the four white gems 
from the Leomund's secret chest. 

If is likely that the party will wish to release the fire giantess first 
in order to pacify the fire giant and, despite its intense desire to 
destroy the Gauntlet, the Sentinel will not object to this. 

When the giantess is released, she will be grateful to her 
rescuers and will cautiously co-operate with the party in order 
to ensure her safe return to her father. Although he is of evil 
alignment, the fire giant is also lawful and will fulfil his part of 
the bargain. Once the party has released his daughter, he and 
his army will withdraw into the mountains and not return. 

25 



THE MAGICAL PRISON (CELLS 1-3) 


Despite the giantess' evil alignment, her release should not be 
considered an evil act for a paladin (for example) since the 
intention is to spare bloodshed and to honour an agreement. 

The giant will respond angrily if he believes that the party is 
threatening his daughter, although his prime concern will 
al ways be to ensure her safety. I f P for some reason, the gia ntess 
is kitted and the giant discovers this, he will spare no effort or 
loss In order to have his revenge. 

Once the threat of the fire giant has been averted, the Sentinel 
will want to confront the Gauntlet and It will make this desire 
known to the party (by telepathy). It will emphasise that it is 
only necessary for it to touch the Gauntlet in order that 
the latter is destroyed. It will not mention that touching 
the Gauntlet will also cause its own destruction (see 
DESTRUCTION OF THE GAUNTLET AND THE SENTINEL - 
page 29). 

If the adventurers do not seem willing to confront the Gauntlet, 
then the Sentinel will attempt to persuade them by stating that 
fourmagicaj gems are incorporated into the Gauntletand that 
these will remain if it is destroyed. If necessary, the Sentinel 
will withdraw the use of its magical powers (restoring them if 
the adventurers agree) and may even be forced to attempt to 
dominate the personality of its bearer and to use its suggestion 
ability on the other adventurers {see THE SENTINEL - page 
29). It will agree to a reasonable delay (up to 12 hours) if the 
party wishes to rest, heal wounds, relearn spells and so on, 

Unfortunately for the party and the Sentinel, the Gauntlet had 
sufficient power to overcome the temporal stasis which 
usually besets those in the magical prison, to examine the 
other prisoners and also to perform an exchange. It was able to 
desert the ogrillon and moved to a new, more powerful bearer- 
the giant two-headed troll in cell 4, 

ft is likely that the swap and the incomplete nature of the 
records in the instruction book (ie the omission of the volt) will 
cause the party some surprises (and the DM some hard-earned 
amusement) while they are attempting to find the Gauntlet. 



PRISONERS 

As Is the case with the normal Imprisonment spell, the 
prisoners (with the exception of the Gauntlet) have been in a 
state of suspended animation (cf temporal stasis) since they 
were incarcerated. 

The occupants of the cells and their responses to the party 
when released are as follows: 


Cell 1 

The ogrillon (AC 6; MV 12 M : HD 2; hpl (12);^ AT 2; D 2*112-1; 
SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low (insane); AL CE; Size M; xp 22; 
THACO 16; FF) is no longer wearing the Gauntlet. The loss has 
stripped him of all its magical powers and has reduced him to a 
homicidal maniac with only one hit point. The ogrillon will 
wildly attack the party on sight. 

The Sentinel will send the following message (telepathically) 
to its bearer when it becomes obvious that the ogrillon does 
not have the Gauntlet, unless the party has already discovered 
this: 

* -. 

What trickery is this? The Gauntlet has deceived us! 
Somehow it has abandoned this vile creature and yet I 
sense that it is stilt within the magical prison. Perhaps 
it has moved to another bearer? If so, it remains a 
prisoner and within our grasp. We must not allow it to 
escape. 


The ogrillon is still wearing the ill-fitting clothes in which the 

party first saw him (room 27). His personal treasures are; 

- a very fine tunic and robe (silk with gold brocade and sable 
trim - the tunic is worth 600gp, and the apparent value of the 
robeis600gp. If is actually a robe of useful Itemscontaming 
the usual daggers, poles, etc r plus a bag with 100gp; two 
silver coffers (value - 500gp each); three 24-foot wooden 
ladders: 10 gems (value - 10Ogp each); two scrolls, one with 
read magic and one with mending: and a 2-foot by 4-foot 
window. 

- a black opal or a gold chain around his neck (value - 2000gp) 

- two black pearls (value - 500gp each) in a small purse 
hanging from his belt. 


Cell 2 

A volt (ACS: MV 6"; HD 2+1: hp 14; # AT 1 and 1; D 1-4 and 2-12; 
SA Nil; SD Immune to electrical-type attacks; MR Std; Jnt 
Animal; AL N; SizeS; xp 92; THACO 16; FF) which will attack 
the adventurers on sight. 


Cell 3. 

The fire giant s daughter (AC 3; MV 12"; HD 9; hp 43; *AT1; 
D 2-16; SA Nil; SD Impervious to fire; MR Std; Int Ave; AL LE; 
Size L:xp 1140; THAC012; MM).She will not be welt disposed 
towards the adventurers at first, but will not attack them unless 
she feels threatened and will cautiously allow the adventurers 
to conclude their bargain with her father (see RELEASING 
THE PRISONERS- page25). The giantess is unarmed and her 
only personal treasure consists of a crudely made necklace of 
jet (value - 15Qgp). 


26 










TT 

1 

111 

la 


IB 


Cell 4 

A giant two-headed troll wearing the Gauntlet (AC 4; MV 12"; 
HD 11; hp 65; - AT 4; D 1-6(+ 2-7 - shocking grasp)/1-6/1-1D/ 
1-10; SA cast tear (once per day); SD Regeneration (6 hp per 
round), protection from normal missiles, immune to charm, 
command, confusion, ESP, fear, teeblemmd, forget, friends, 
geas, hold person, quest, scare, sleep and suggestion; MR Std; 
Int Exceptional; AL NE; Size L; xp 2710; THACO 10; FF). The 
characteristics of this creature are a combination of those of 
the giant two-headed troll and the Gauntlet (see THE 
GAUNTLET - page 28). 

When brought back from the magical prison, the troll's 
reaction will be simple and hostile. His major concerns will be 
to avoid the Sentinel-wearer, to use his fear spell to the best 
effect and to kill as many adventurers as possible with his 
teeth, bare hands and shocking grasp attack. He will direct 
each of his four attacks at different opponents if possible. 

When the giant trolf with the Gauntlet appears, the Sentinel will 
send this message to the party (telepathically): 

* ~ ~ 1 ¦ \ 

There my friends! There is the Gauntlet! You have 
onfy to bring us together and I will destroy its evil 
forever. Come now, be brave, touch me to the 
Gauntlet and my destiny will be fulfilled. 


The character wearing the Sentinel may automatically touch 
the Gauntlet with it if the giant troll is immobilised (eg if 
temporarily reduced below zero hit points). White the troll is 
mobile, however, theSentfnel-wearer must score a hit m order 


to bring the artifacts into contact. This should be treated as a 
normal attack since the Sentinel wifi guide the bearer's hand to 
some extent. 

When the Sentinel and Gauntlet are touched together, both 
will be instantly (and spectacularly) destroyed leaving only the 
ring which was incorporated into the Sentinel and the gems 
which were part of the Gauntlet. Nothing will remain of the troll 
but a smear of dust (which will not regenerate). See THE 
DESTRUCTION OF THE GAUNTLET AND THE SENTINEL - 
page 29). 

The ring from the Sentinel will give permanent shield 
protection when worn. This power may only be used by the 
person who was wearing the Sentinel at the time of its 
destruction, however, 

The gems from the Gauntlet contain the remnants of the power 
of the artifact. They are identical in appearance, angular in 
form, translucent and grey-green in colour. They have an 
apparent value of 800gp each but they are magical and each 
will have a different effect on its owner; 

Gem * 1 - owner regenerates 1 hit point per turn (only while 
the character is alive). 

Gem* 2 - owner has an effective charisma of 1 8 when dealing 
with creatures of his or her own alignment. 

Gem* 3-owner has complete immunity to charm and 
suggestion spells 

Gem* 4 - this gem has a very strong aura of evil and non-evil 
characters will take a instant dislike to it. If kept, it 
will have the same effect on its owner as a jewel of 
attacks. An identify spell will not reveal the nature 
of this gem. 


27 




































































POWERS 



There are two kinds of magical abilities which the Gauntlet can 
employ: those which are permanent and may be used at will, 
and those which may only be used at a limited rate. These 
powers are only available to a character who has been 
completely taken over by the personality of the Gauntlet. 


Permanent Powers 


The wearer will gain a number of hit dice or levels (as 
appropriate). The number gained will depend on the 
original level/hit dice of the wearer; 


Levels/hit dice gained 


Original level/hit dice 


less than 1 
1-3 
4-6 
7-9 
10-12 

more than 12 


The wearer will gain all hit point, *\o hit', saving throw and 
magic resistance benefits of the acquired level, but no 
extra spell casting or special abilities. 


2, The wearer will regenerate 5 hit points of damage per 
round, even when reduced below zero. 


The Gauntlet is made of tough black leather. It appears to have 
been made for a large human left hand but is actually capable 
of fitting any left hand. It has iron studs along the fingers and 
four rough grey-green gems set in the palm. 


3. The wearer is protected by the equivalent of a permanent 

protection from normal missiles spell. 

4. The wearer has a permanent shocklng-grasp-like ability 
which adds 2-7 hit points of electrical damage to any hit 
scored with the hand wearing the Gauntlet. This damage 
does not apply if a weapon is used (characters attempting 
two attacks - ie Gauntlet on one hand, weapon in the other 
- should be dealt with as described in DMG p70). 


The Gauntlet has a personality and purpose which are treated 
in a similar (but not identical) way to those of unusual swords 
(see DMG pi 67-8). It has an intelligence of 15 and an ego of 18, 
and thus a personality of 33. Its alignment rs neutral evil and it 
will attempt to dominate its bearerassoon as it is puton. If the 
victim succumbs, it will become a slave to the Gauntlet's 
commands. The Gauntlet will not allow the use of any of its 
powers by a creature which it does not control. Any character 
of non-evil alignment who puts on the Gauntlet will suffer 1-8 
hit points of damage each round that it is worn. The Gauntlet 
will only attempt to control a non-evil creature under 
exceptional circumstances, in which case it will leave it with 
one hit point. 


5. The wearer will have the equivalent of charisma 18 when 
dealing with creatures of evil alignment. This is due to the 
emanations of power from the Gauntlet and if it is 
destroyed, all creatures previously subject to its Influence 
will be affected by the equivalent of a fear spell. 


6. The wearer is no more than an automaton under the 
control of the Gauntlet, and is immune to charm, 
command, confusion, ESP, fear, feeblemind, forget, 
friends, geas, hold person, quest scare, sleep and 
suggestion spells. 


If a player-character dons the Gauntlet and becomes 
dominated by it. the DM should immediately take control of the 
character from the player and direct its actions according to 
the desires of the Gauntlet. Control of the character can only 
be restored to the player if the Gauntlet is removed. This 
removal requires the application of an exorcise spell. The level 
at which the magic of the Gauntlet was created should be 
taken as 20th for the purposes of the exorcise spell. Creatures 
wearing the Gauntlet who are not under its the control will be 
able to remove it without difficulty 


Limited Use Powers 


1. The Gauntlet may become the equivalent of a maul of the 
titans (duration five rounds) three times each day. It may 
automatically be wielded by its wearer (regardless of size 
or strength) but it can only be used for damaging 
structures and not as a weapon. 

2. The wearer may casta learspell once per day (duration 6 
rounds). 


The original purpose of the Gauntlet was the destruction of the 
Keep at Adlerweg, but during the years that it lay dormant it 
became dissatisfied with this and planned to capture and 
control the Keep rather than destroy it. 


3. The wearer may cast a know alignment spell three times 
per day. 


The Gauntlet fears the Sentinel greatly since, if they are 
brought together, it will be destroyed. 



THE SENTINEL 


The Sentinel is a glove made of pale kid leather which will 
never become dirty or stained. Incorporated into the index 
finger is a ring set with a rounded blue stone. It will fit any 
humanoid right hand. 

The Sentinel has a personality and purpose which are treated 
in a similar (but not identical) way to those of unusual swords 
(see DMG p167-8). It has an intelligence of 17 and an egoof 21, 
and so has a personality of 38. The purposes of the Sentinel are 
the defence of the Keep of Adlerweg, and the destruction of the 
Gauntlet should an opportunity for this arise. It has remained 
true to these purposes despite the passing of the years. 

The personality of the Sentinel is very strong. In keeping with 
its neutral-good alignment, however, it will not automatically 
attempt to dominate and control its wearer, in order to achieve 
its ends, it will use advice and persuasion in the first instance, 
followed by total withdrawal of the use of its powers. It will only 
attempt to dominate its bearer as a last resort if the bearer's 
actions run seriously contrary to its purposes. 


POWERS 

The Sentinel was constructed in great haste. Its powers are 
not, relatively speaking, very great, but it alone has the power 
to destroy the Gauntlet. 

There are two kinds of power which the Sentinel can make 
available to its wearer: those which are permanent and may be 
used at will, and those which may only be used at a limited rate. 
Some of the powers are usable only by a magic user or 
illusionist. In addition, the Sentinel has a suggestion-like 
ability, which it uses to persuade creatures to don it or perform 
other actions. This power is not available to the bearer. 


Permanent Powers 

1. The wearer may automatically open the magically locked 
gates of the undercroft below the Keep of Adlerweg. 

2. The Sentinel has the effect of a permanent protection from 
evil 10' radius spell cast upon the wearer. 

3. The wearer has a total resistance to magically induced 
fear. All friends and allies of the wearer within 10 feet of the 
Sentinel have a +2 bonus on saving throws against 
magical fear, 

4. The wearer is protected as if by a permanent shield spell 
(magic users/illusionists only). 


Limited Use Powers 

1. The wearer may cast a protection from normal missiles 

spell once per day (duration 5 turns-magic users/illusion- 
ists only). 

2. The wearer may cast a hold portal spell (as if cast by a 
magic user of 10th level) twice per day (magic users/ 
illusionists only). 

3. The wearer may cast a know alignment spell twice per day 
(magic users/illusionists only). 



DESTRUCTION OF THE GAUNTLET 
AND THE SENTINEL 

The Sentinel and Gauntlet are artifacts and may not be 
destroyed by normal means. However, if they touch one 
another they will both be instantly vaporized, leaving only the 
ring which was part of the Sentinel and the four gems from the 
palm of the Gauntlet. 

The mutual annihilation of Sentinel and Gauntlet will be 
spectacular, producing a brilliant flash of light and a thunder- 
like crash - both harmless. The creature wearing the Gauntlet 
will be affected by the equivalent of a disintegrate spell (no 
saving throw). The Sentinel wearer will not be harmed. 

The ring from the Sentinel is gold with a rounded blue stone 
(apparent value * 150gp). It is magical and will protect its 
wearer (any character class) with the equivalent of a 
permanent shield spell. This power may only be used by the 
person who was wearing the Sentinel when it was destroyed. 

The gems from the Gauntlet contain the remnants of the power 
of the artifact. They are identical in appearance, angular in 
form, translucent and grey-green in colour. They have an 
apparent value of 80Qgp each but they are magical and each 
will have a different effect on its owner: 

Gem^ 1 - owner regenerates 1 hit point per turn (only while the 
character ts alive). 

Gem'* 2 - owner has an effective charisma of 18 when dealing 
with creatures of his or her own alignment. 

Gem;* 3-owner has complete immunity to charm and 
suggestion spells. 

Gem^4 - this gem has a very strong aura of evil and non-evil 
characters will take a instant dislike to it If kept it will 
have the same effect on its owner as a jewel of 
attacks. An identify spell will not reveal its nature 

29 




ALTERNATIVE START 

It is essential that the adventurers are in possession of the 
Sentinel (page 29) before starting the adventure described in 
this module. If the party has not obtained the Sentinel during 
the adventure in module UK2 - THE SENTINEL, the DM may 
wish to create a special adventure for this purpose. Alter 
natively, the following encounter may be used. The DM should 
note that the Sentinel can only be used by characters of LG, 
NG. LN P N or GG alignments, and should ensure that the 
characters chosen by the players will be suitable for the 
adventure. 

The adventurers arrive at the village of Kusntr, several miles 
west of Ganna way (see map A). Here, they are told of problems 
which the villagers have been having with a pair of skulks, one 
of whom has been acting very strangely. The villagers direct 
the adventurers to a cave in the woods, three miles east of the 
village^ which they believe to be the skulks' lair. 


THE SKULKS' LAIR 

The cave is easy to find using the directions given by the 
villagers. When the adventurers are able to see into the cave, 
the DM should read out the following; 

- ¦¦ ¦'> 

Lying huddled on the floor of this chamber is a 
humanoid figure. It appears to be trembling and 
whimpering and is clutching its right arm to its chest, 

- ^ 

The creature on the floor is a skulk (AC 7; MV 12"; HD 2; 
hp 1 (9);* AT Nil; D Nil: SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Non; AL C£; 
Size M; xp 0; THACO N/A; FF). It is wearing the Sentinel and 
this has caused its pitiable state. The conflict between its 
personality and the Sentinel's ego has destroyed the creature's 
mind and it is completely harmless. It has no treasure. 

Hiding to the right of the cave mouth is a second skulk (AC 7; 
MV 12"; HD 2; hp 7;^ AT 1; D 1-6 (dagger): SABackstab as fifth 
level thief; SD Camouflage; MR Std; Int Ave; AL CE; Size M; 
xp5Q; THACO 16; FF). It will attempt to remain hidden until a 
chance to escape arises and will attack a character from 
behind if necessary in order to create confusion, it has 40gp 
worth of mixed coins, and a gem (topaz, value-350gp) in a belt 
pouch. 

When the party arrives, the Sentinel will use its know alignment 
ability to sense the presence of LG, NG t LN. N or CG 
characters. If there are none present, the Sentinel will do 
nothing in the hope that the adventurers will ignore it. 
Otherwise, it will show itself to the party: 


TO THE ADVENTURE 

( -- 

The creature on the floor regains its composure for a 
while and raises its right arm as if to show it to you. 
You see that it is wearing a pale brown glove 
apparently made of fine leather. On the index finger is 
a ring with a single, rounded, blue stone. 


Next, the Sentinel will choose a bearer from the party 
according to the following criteria; 

Alignment. This is the most important criterion. The order of 
preference is (starting with the most preferred): LG, NG, LN, N, 
CG, No characters of any other alignment will be chosen. 

Class, This is the next most important criterion. If two or more 
characters have the same alignment, then magic user is the 
preferred class, followed by (in order of preference) illusionist, 
paladin, monk t ranger, cleric and fighter. No other class may 
use the Sentinel, 

Level. All else being equal, the Sentinel will choose the 
character with highest level. 

The Sentinel will then communicate (tetepathically) with its 
chosen character only: 

* -* 

Come, worthy one. Take me from the hand of this 
wretched creature and place me on your own. The evil 
one is at large and together we must destroy it. 
Despite my powers, I am helpless without one such as 
you who will take me up and wield the power I possess 
for the furtherance of the common good. Come. 


If the chosen wielder seems reluctant to take up and put on the 
Sentinel, it will use its suggestion power against which the 
character will save at -4 since the suggestion is very 
reasonable. 

If the Sentinel is not taken up by its first choice of bearer, it will 
repeat the process with each eligible character in the party, in 
order of preference, until one of them decides or is forced to 
put it on or until the possibilities are exhausted. 

Once a suitable character puts on the Sentinel, it will tell that 
character (telepathically) about its history, its purposes and 
the powers it has to offer. In order to simulate this message, the 
DM should give the player concerned the tear-off sheet 
entitled MESSAGE FROM THE SENTINEL' from the back of 
this module. 


CREDITS 


Graeme Morris 
Tom Kirby 
Phil Gallagher 
Paul Cockburn, Kim Daniel 
Paul Ruiz 
Pete Young 


concept, design, writing 

concept, editing 

production 

layout, typesetting 

cartography 

art 


Thanks to the DMs and players at GamesFair "83 who may recognise this module, MWB, D JT, CM, and 
the Anglo Saxons 

(for providing the command words for the Leorriund's secret chest). 


30 







MESSAGE FROM THE SENTINEL 


I am the Sentinel, the glove worn by the 
Guardians ot Adlerweg. 

Many years ago, there was open strife between the inhabitants 
of this area, then known as Berghof, and the people of the 
coastal lands beyond the mountains to the south east, 
Adlerweg, a pass cut by the River Gann, is the sole link 
between these regions and so t to ensure peace, the rulers of 
Berghof built a lofty fortress there. 

The Keep of Adlerweg blocks the pass against invasion as a 
cork blocks the neck of a bottle, but the hot-blooded 
coastianders were never content with peace and prosperity. 
War and conquest were their only loves, and to this end their 
evil sorcerers created a black gauntlet and wove about it such 
magics that it could reduce the Keep of Adlerweg to a ruin, 

Little time was left to avoid catastrophe when rumour of the 
Gauntlet first drifted over the mountains. In haste was I 
fashioned to counter the threat - a creation having intellect and 
great power, existing only to protect Adlerweg and to destroy 
the Gauntlet should it threaten the Keep, Those appointed to 
control my powers, a succession of mighty mages, were 
known as the Guardians of Adlerweg and I served the holders 
of that title over many years during which the Gauntlet dared 
not oppose me and the Keep remained inviolate. 


Eventually, the coastal lands fell to the ships and hordes of the 
Sea Princes, and the Gauntlet was lost. Without its threat, the 
reason for my existence faded and my powers waned. 
Eventually the Guardians came to regard me as no more than a 
relic from a bygone era. 

Even so, I did but sleep. The destinies of the Gauntlet and I 
were linked by my making such that we could only be 
destroyed together Silent, I awaited the day when the 
Gauntlet would return. Silent I remained when brought from 
the keep to this villa by the last mage to bear the title 
'Guardian', Silent still while his family, which retained me in 
succeeding generations as a mere curio, declined and fell; and 
silent in the empty years following their abandonment of this 
place. Not long since, my sleep was broken by the re 
awakening of the Gauntlet and I sensed that, as ever, it was 
intent on the destruction of the keep, 

Desperate for a person of pure intent who could employ my 
power to cast the Gauntlet into oblivion once more, l had only a 
pair of foul skulks for company. However I was able to 
command one of them to do my bidding and, though I 
destroyed its mind in the process, it was able to lure you here. 

And now you have come. Feel the powers I can give you. 
Together we will go to Adlerweg and destroy the evil of the 
Gauntlet. 




The powers of the Sentinel are as follows: 

1. While you are wearing it you may automatic 
ally open magically locked doors in the Keep 
of Adlerweg. 

2. It has the effect of a permanent protection 
from evil 10' radius cast upon you. 

3. tt gives you total resistance to magical fear 
and gives all your allies within 10 feet of you a 
+2 bonus on saving throws against such 
attacks. 

If the wielder is a magic user or an illusionist the 

Sentinel will confer additional powers as follows: 

4. It has the effect of a permanent shield spell 
cast on you alone. 

5. You may cast a protection from normal 
missiles spell once per day (duration 5 turns). 

6. You may cast a hold portal spell (as if cast by a 
10th level magic user) twice per day. 

7. You may cast a know alignment spell twice per 
day. 



9111XXX15D1 



MONSTER ROSTER 


Name 

Location 

No 

AC 

MV 

HD 

hp 

* AT 

D 

SA 

SO 

MR 

Int 

AL 

s 

xp THACO 

Animated figure 

Room 5 

1 

4 

9" 

8 

45 

1 

2-7 

Fear 

MS 

25%* 

Non 

N 

M 

620 

13 

(cleric) 

Animated figure 

Room 5 

1 

2 

6' 

6 

50 

1 

5-12 

Nil 

MS 

* 

Non 

N 

M 

525 

13 

(fighter) 

Animated figure 

Room 5 

1 

9 

l T 

8 

42 

o 

0 

Magic 

MS 

5Q%* 

Non 

N 

M 

602 

N/A 

(magic-user) 
Ant, Giant 

Roam 7c 

1 

3 

0 

TO 

48 

0 

0 

missiles 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Animal 

N 

M 

0 

N/A 

queen 

Ant, Giant 

Roam 7c 

4 

3 

ir 

3 

13 ea. 

i 

2-8 

Poison sting 

Nil 

Std 

Animal 

N 

S 

79 ea. 

16 

soldier 

Ant, Giant 

Room 7c 

4 

3 

19" 

2 

7 ea 

i 

1-6 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Animal 

N 

S 

34 ea. 

16 

worker 

Ant. Giani 

Room 7b 

5 

3 

Ifl" 

2 

7 ea 

i 

1-6 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Animal 

N 

S 

34 ea 

16 

worker 

Dog, war 

Ganna way 

1 

6 

12" 

2+2 

16 

i 

2-8 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Semi 

N 

M 

83 

16 

Giant, fire 

Army 

1 

3 

12" 

11+3 

71 

1 

5-30 

Rocks 

Immune 

Sid 

Ave 

LE 

L 

4012 

10 

Giant, fire 

Cell 3 

1 

3 

12" 

9 

43 

i 

2-16 

Nil 

to fine 

Immune 

Std 

Ave 

LE 

L 

1140 

12 

(female) 

Gnoll 

Gannaway 

t 

3 

r 

2 

2 

1 

2-5 

Attack 

to fire 

Nil 

Std 

Ave 

CE 

L 

32 

15 

(chieftain) 

Gnoll (female) 

Room 21 

4 

S 

r 

2 

9 ea. 

1 

1-4 

as 4HO 

-1 to hit 

Nil 

Std 

Low 

CE 

L 

35 ea 

17 

Gnoll (leader) 

Room 14 

1 

5 

9" 

3 

16 

1 

1-8 o r 1-6 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Low Ave 

CE 

L 

83 

16 

Gnoll (mate) 

Room 11 

10 

5 

9" 

2 

12 ea 

1 

1-8 oM-6 

-5 to fth 

Nil 

Std 

SemJ 

CE 

L 

52 ea 

20' 

Gnoll (male) 

Room 13 

s 

5 

r 

2 

12 ea. 

1 

1-8 

-5 to hit 

Nit 

Std 

Semi 

CE 

L 

52 ea 

20* 

Gnoll (male) 

Room 14 

14 

5 

0" 

2 

9 ea. 

1 

1-8 or 1-6 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Low 

CE 

L 

46 ea. 

16 

Gngtl (male) 

Room 15 

4 

5 

r 

2 

9 ea. 

1 

1-8 or 1-8 

Nil 

Nit 

Std 

Low 

CE 

L 

48 ea 

16 

Gnoll (male) 

Room 22 

S 

S 

9" 

2 

9 ea. 

1 

1-8 or 1-8 

Nil 

Nil 

std 

Low Ave 

CE 

L 

46 ea 

1@ 

Gnoll, witch 

Room IS 

1 

a 

9 JI 

4 

20 

1 

1-8 

Spells 

NH 

Std 

Ave 

CE 

L 

205 

15 

doctor (female) 

Hell hound 

Army 

4 

4 

12" 

C4/M2 

? 

42 ea. 

1 

1-10 

Breath 

Nil 

Std 

Low 

LE 

M 

506 ea 

13 

Hobgoblin 

Army 

12 

5 


1+1 

8 ea 

1 

1-8 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Ave 

LE 

M 

36 ea. 

18 

(guards) 

Hobgoblin 

Army 

ISO 

5 

9" 

141 

6 ea 

1 

1-8 

Nil 

NH 

Std 

Ave 

LE 

M 

32 ea 

16 

(infantry) 

Hobgoblin 

Army 

5 

5 

r 

1+1 

9 ea. 

1 

1-8 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Ave 

LE 

M 

38 ea 

18 

(sergeant) 

Hobgoblin 

Army 

t 

3 

9" 

3 

16 

1 

3-10 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Ave 

LE 

M 

63 

16 

(sub-chief) 

Horae 

Room IS 

3 

7 

IS" 

2+2 

11.8. 

3 

1-6/1-8/1-3 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Animal 

N 

L 

68. 59, 

16 

(medium war) 
Hyena 

Room IS 

5 

7 

12" 

3 

7 

16ea 

1 

2-S 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Animal 

N 

M 

56 

63 ea. 

16 

Man-at-arms 

Room 19 

4 

10 

12" 

F0 

3,2, 

1 

by weapon 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Ave 

NG 

M 

13. 12, 

20' 

Man-at-arms 

Room 19 

1 

10 

12" 

F2 

2. 1 

4 

1 

by weapon 

Nil 

Nif 

Std 

Ave 

NG 

M 

12. 11 

47 

20 

(sergeant) 

Mantle ore 

Army 

4 

4 

18" 

6+3 

36 ea. 

3 

1-3/1-3/1-8 

Tail spikes 

Nil 

Std 

Low 

LE 

L 

613 ea 

13 

Ogre 

Room 24 

1 

5 

9" 

4+1 

23 

1 

1-10 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Low 

CE 

L 

205 

15 

Ogrillon 

Cell 1 

1 

6 

12" 

2 

1 

2 

2-7Z2-7 

Nil 

NH 

Std 

Insane 

CE 

M 

22 

15 

Revenant 

Lecmundft 

1 

10 

9" 

0 

45 

1 

2-16 

Paralyse 

Special 

- 

Except 

N 

M 

1725 

12 

Screaming 

Chest 

Army 

4 

2 

12" 

3 

17 

1 

1-6 

Scream 

Nil 

Std 

Low 

LE 

S 

141 ea 

16 

deviikin 

Skulk 

AIL start 

1 

7 

13" 

2 

7 

1 

1-8 

Backstab 

Hide 

Std 

Ave 

CE 

M 

50 

16 

Skulk (with 

Alt. atari 

1 

7 

12" 

2 

1 

0 

0 

Nil 

Nil 

Std 

Non 

CE 

M 

0 

N/A 

Sentinel) 

Troll, giant 

Cell 4 

t 

4 

12" 

11 

85 

4 

1-8 (+2-7)/ 

Fear 

Regen. 

* 

Except 

NE 

L 

2710 

10 

two-headed 
(with Gauntlet) 

Volt 

Cell 2 

1 

3 

8" 

2+1 

14 

2 

1-8/1-10/ 

1-10 

1-4/2-12 

Nil 

Immune 

Std 

Animal 

N 

S 

92 

16 

Worg 

Room 24 

4 

6 

18 r 

4+4 

24 ea. 

1 

2-8 

NH 

to elec 

NH 

Std 

Low 

NE 

L 

210 ea 

16 


Abbreviations: N/A = Not applicable, 


MS - Need magical (+1) or silver weapons to hit, 


¦* Special. 


Except = Exceptional. 





BERGHOF AND THE 
PASS OFADLERWEG 


gannawa 


KAMPH 

RANGE 


LOCATION OF MAP B 


KEEP OF 
ADLERWEG 


1 hex S MILES 


RIVER 


VILLAGE 


WOODS 


?y TRACK 


MOUNTAINS 


DOOR 


ARROW-SLIT/ 

PEEP-HOLE 


SECRET ON 
ONE SIDE 


STAIRS UP 


LOCKED 


STAIRS DOWN 


LADDER UP 


FIREPLACE 


LADDER 

DOWN 










^tga^tsV'' 

nI,:14 

^0^4_ 

¦Ik 


HUHMnBMim 
mmr^mmvmwFmu i 
a mii 

mb ¦niH?* 

' . JBL .mm 

fc"5s.^anBk._ jg 

^i^suiniss 


C FLOOR PLANS OF THE KEEP 


FLOOR 4a 


FLOOR 4 


FLOOR 3 


FLOOR 2 


FLOOR 1 


[fftb 

55 

PI 


¦¦ 

nl 


' 1 S 84 TSR, Inc, AN Right* Reserv&d 

















SUGGESTED CHARACTER ROSTER 


NAME 

Morcarak 

Leandra 

Idrfl 
iron fist 

Drak 

Tarmenelda 

Frund the 

Fi remaster 

Lara 

Lightfingers 

Caddhban i 

Feagil 

CLASS 

Cleric 

Cleric 

Fighter 

Fighter 

MU 

MU 

Thief 

Monk 

Ranger 

RACE 

Human 

Homan 

1/2 Elf 

Dwarf 

Eir 

Human 

Having 

Human 

1/2 0f 

SEX 

Male 

Female 

Female 

Male 

Female 

Male 

Female 

Male 

Male 











STRENGTH 

12 

8 

15 

16 

6 

8 

U 

15 

15 

INTELLIGENCE 

11 

12 

6 

15 

15 

16 

9 

6 

13 

WISDOM 

16 

15 

8 

13 

13 

10 

13 

15 

14 

DEXTERITY 

11 

14 

13 

9 

14 

12 

16 

16 

8 

CONSTITUTION 

13 

to 

14 

12 

10 

15 

14 

11 

14 

CHARISMA 

e 

12 

15 

6 

12 

9 

8 

8 

7 











CLOTHING 

Glue cloak 
over 

chains ail 

Green robes 
over 
ringmail 

Banoed 
mail and 
chain 

Chainmail 
and sheild 

Red & white 
robes and 
black cloak 

Cowied cloak 
and 

grey robes 

Leather 

armour 

Black robe 
with 
rope belt 

Green cloak 
over 

cha inmail 

WEAPONS 

Footmans 

flail 

Footman's 

mace 

long sword, 
longbow 

Hand axe, 
short sword 

Dagger 

Staff 

Short 

sword 

5 peat 

2-handed sword 
and dagger 

HIT POINTS 

18/21/26/30 

15/19/27/32 

25/31/40/45 

18/24/31/40 

10/12/16/19 

12/15/19/23 

12/16/21/24 

11/13/17/21 

20/24/30/36 


MAGICAL ITEMS 

Listed above are nine characters suitable for use in this 
adventure. Hit points have been given for each character at 
tevels 3, 4, 5. and 6, respectively. Once the players have 
been allocated characters, the DM should decide on a level 
between 3 and S for each one, which is strong enough (but 
not too strong) for the adventure (say 30-35 levels total). 
Players may, of course, continue to use any characters from 
the Character Roster in UK2, The Sentinel. 

The allocation of magical items to the characters from the 
list provided is at the discretion of the DM T who should take 
account of the levels of the characters concerned in order to 
ensure a balanced adventure. 


Each character should receive 1-2 magical items* The items 
are listed in order corresponding to the listed characters. 

2 potions of extra healing; mace *1; 1 jar Keoghtom's 
ointment; wand of magic detection (20 charges), hand 
axe *2; bag of holding (2500 gp); phylactery of faithful 
ness; cloak of etvenkind; cloak of protection 2; dagger 
2 \ ring of water walking; longsword +1; 10 arrows *1; 
potion of invisibility; shield *1; spear -1. 










































Advanced 

Dungeons5pra3ons 

Official Game Adventure 


THE GAUNTLET 

by Graeme Morris 


indomitable it stood for centuries, a symbol 
of order in a world of chaos. Bastion of the pass 
through the Kamph Mountains, the very 
stones of the Keep of Adlerweg were the stuff 
of legends. What evil power had strength 
enough to take it? How were its defenses 
swept aside? 

Fell creatures now attend the battlements 
that overlook the only pass between Berghof 
and the sea. 

This is not a petty problem to be solved by 
the militia of the local villages. These and more 
may be needed to withstand the mayhem 
stirred up by the fall of the Keep. Indeed, if the 
Keep is not retaken, and retaken soon, the 
Hold of the Sea Princes itself may not be 
secure. 

Now is the time for herioc action. Aided by 
the Sentinel, former protector of the legendary 
Guardians of Adlerweg, have you the courage 
and determination to rid the Keep of its sinis 
ter occupants? 

This module can be played atone or as the second adventure in the two- 
part ALDERWEG series* 

91 1 IXXX1401 0 88038-119-1 

394-53998-2TSR0600 

1984 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved* Printed Printed in U.S.A, 



T$R t Inc* 
POB 758 
Lake Geneva, 
Wl 53147 



TSR, Inc, 

PflODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION(tm) 


TSR {(IK) Ltd* 

The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CBI4AD 
United Kingdom 

























