CAMPAIGN MODULE WG 4 

THE FORGOTTEN TEMPLE 

OF THARIZDUN 

by Gary Gygax 



AN ADVENTURE SET ON GREYHAWK'S 
WORLD FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 5-10 


This special module is a combined wilderness and dungeon adventure scenario. It contains background 
information, referees 
notes.encounter keys.outdoor and dungeon level maps, and new monsters and treasures. While it is 
designed fo/nfer/'ace w/fAi THE 
LOST CAVERNS OF TSOJCANTH. this module is capable of standing alone. L//rewjse, while it is placed 
within^^rwhawk 
Campaign, it can easily be adapted to play in any individual campaign which employs the ADVANCED 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS 
game system. 


(c)1982 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All rights reserved. 


PRINTED IN U.S.A. 
ISBN 0-88038-002-0 





HTSR! 

TSR Hobbw*. Inc. 

POB 756 

Lake Geneva. 

WIS3I47 

TSR Hobbies (UK) Lid 

The Mill. Raihmore Rood 
Cambridge CBI4AD 

United Kingdom 




(c) I9M tSI Mkn K " U Il>" tfj M 


9065 











CAMPAIGN MODULE WG 4 

THE FORGOTTEN TEMPLE 
OF THARIZDUN 

by Gary Gygax 



AN ADVENTURE SET ON GREYHAWK'S 
WORLD FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 5-10 

This special module is a combined wilderness and dungeon adventure scenario. It contains background 
information, referee's 
notes, encounter keys, outdoor and dungeon level maps, and new monsters and treasures. While it is 
designed to interface with 
THE LOST CAVERNS OF TSOJCANTH, this module is capable of standing alone.Likewise,while it is placed 
withinthe Greyhawk 
Campaign, it can easily be adapted to play in any individual campaign which employs the ADVANCED 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS '* 
game system. 

(r)1982 TSR Hobbles, Inc. All rights reserved. 


(c) ISM TSR Routes. tac Ml Rtflrts Resented 



TSR Hobbies, Inc 

TSR Hobbies (UK) Lid 

POB 756 

Thp Mill. Rathmore Road 

Lake Geneva, 

Cambridge CB14AD 

W153147 

United Kingdom 


PRINTED IN U.S.A. 
ISBN 0-86038-002-0 


9065 




Distributed to the book trade In the United States by Random House, Inc. and In Canada by Random 
House of Canada, Ltd. 

Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and ADVANCED D&D are trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc. 


This module Is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
other unauthorized use of the material or artwork 
contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR Hobbles, Inc. 



THE FORGOTTEN TEMPLE OF THARIZDUN 
INTRODUCTION 


The Temple was built in a previous age. a secret place of 
worship to Tharizdun, He of Eternal Darkness. It drew the most 
wicked persons to it. and the cult flourished for generations, 
sending out its minions from time to time to enact some horri 
ble deed upon the lands around. However, a great battle even 
tually took place between Tharizdun and those opposed to his 
evil. Unable to destroy him, they were strong enough to over 
come his power and imprison him somewhere, by means none 
have ever been able to discover. Thus Tharizdun disappeared 
from the face of the earth, and from all of the other known 
planes, and has not been seen again since. 

After a time his servants returned again to the Temple, desert 
ed as it was of any manifestation of their deity. Amongst these 
wicked folk were many powerful magic-users and clerics. All 
sought with utmost endeavor to discern what had happened to 
Tharizdun, so that he could be freed and returned to rule over 
them once again. All attempts were in vain, although the div 
inations and seekings did reveal to these servants of Eternal 
Darkness that a "Black Cyst" existed below the Temple. By 
physical work and magical means they delved downward to 
reach the Black Cyst. What they discovered there dismayed 
and disheartened them. In the hemisphere of black needlerock 
(floating as if by levitation) a huge form could be seen. Was this 
the physical manifestation of Tharizdun? None could tell. The 
misty form was black and indistinct and enclosed in vaporous 
purple energy as well. No ritual, no spell, no magic could 
pierce the enigma. As time passed, the seekers ritualized their 
attempts to determine if this was their imprisoned deity. An 
altar of black needlerock was constructed directly under the 
12' long form so that it seemed to rest upon the stone. As 


generations passed, various other things necessary to survival 
in the Black Cysl were formalized into a paeon of lament and 
worship for Tharizdun, and endless services to awaken the 
being were conducted by route. Then, as time continued to 
pass, even this ritual grew stale and meaningless. The clerics 
of Tharizdun began to pilfer the hoard of beautiful gems sacri 
ficed to him by earlier servants - 333 gems of utmost value, 
ranging in worth from 5,000 to 50,000 gold pieces each. Re 
placing these jewels with stones of much less value, the former 
servants of this deity slipped away with their great wealth to 
serve other gods and wreak evil elsewhere. 

In the end only a handful of faithful clerics remained to repeat 
the daily ritual of attempted awakening. Some of this handful 
were slain by monsters, others eventually grew old and died. 
The last High Priest, alone, wandered off into the place re 
served for his remains in the dungeon, for alone he was unable 
to take his proper place in the Undertemple. Thus, a century 
ago, the last servant of Tharizdun died, and the Temple was 
without inhabitant of human sort. 

Various wandering monsters eventually used the Temple as a 
lair for a time. Some moved on, some descended into the 
depths of the place, some were slain as is the wont of such 
creatures. Already dim in the recollection of humankind for 
decades, the Temple was forgotten by all but a few sages and 
savants generations before the last of its clerics was dead. 
Those creatures which dwelt in it from time to time knew not its 
name or purpose. The place was truly The Forgotten Temple of 
Tharizdun, and until exploring adventurers deem it otherwise, 
it will remain so. 


BACKGROUND FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 


While seeking the LOST CAVERNS OF TSOJCANTH, your 
party discovered a sheltered valley amidst the rugged peaks to 
the east. This peaceful, wooded depression proved to be home 
to numerous gnomes. Taking advantage of the respite such a 
haven offered, all of you elected to establish friendly relations 
with these doughty demi-humans, accept their hospitality, and 
enjoy the comforts of Gnome Vale. In addition to their 
hospitality, cautious though it may have been at times, the 
gnomes have provided aid of various sorts and have proved 
skillful in trade as well. Both sides have benefited by the 
relationship, although all of you concur that your group owes 
these good folk much for their friendliness in this harsh and 
hostile mountain range. 

Because of the special relationship which has developed 
between your group and these demi-humans, their scarred old 
lord, Gwaylar, has invited you to a feast in his Granite Hall. 
There, after much eating and quaffing of gnomish ale. Laird 
Gwaylar pounds his flagon on the trestle and the hall becomes 
silent. 

"This feast is in your honor. Humans, because such friends as 
you are rare hereabouts. Just as you have welcomed our fair 
valley as a haven, so too have you been greeted by the 
Uvalnoniz, our Gnomish clan as you would call it, for our own 
reasons. It is not meet to speak it, but as the Laird, I must so 


say. Despite our warlike clansgnomes, our valley is often 
troubled by attacks. While you have not experienced such a 
raid, we feel that one is imminent. We wish to forestall such an 
incursion, for each time the noblink horde strikes, we suffer 
many losses, though each time we slay these creatures by the 
score and they run howling back west..." Here Laird Gwaylar 
trails off. While you have never seen an embarrassed gnome, 
the look upon the face of the clan leader seems to convey a 
great deal of discomfort at having to admit that he and his folk 
need human assistance. 

"Noblink are norkers in human speech, aren't they?," one of 
you asks. Before any answer can be made, all of you seem to 
speak at once, virtually shouting assurances that nothing 
would please you more than seeking out and slaying a tribe of 
such vile humanoids as norkers. 

"Lest you think us nigglings," interjects Laird Gwaylar in a 
commanding basso voice quite unusual in a gnome," be 
warned that while the noblink form the bulk of the scum, they 
are always accompanied by fiercer things - now trolls, again 
ogres, last time a pair of hill giants! Our heroes must fight these 
monsters, and so the losses occur. Your quest will not be for a 
raiding band of mere norkers as you call them, but for these 
creatures and the thing which commands them forth." 


3 





About two years prior to the coming of the adventurers about 
to descend upon the place, a great mountain giant discovered 
the Temple. Residing in it was a band of puny norkers. Being of 
unusual mental ability, the giant chose to enlist these huma 
noids as servants rather than slay and eat a dozen or so and 
chase off the rest. The norkers were surprised and delighted at 
their good fortune. Expedient servitude soon became willing 
service as these humanoids learned how beneficial it was to 
have a master as powerful as the mountain giant. The giant 
used his ability to summon and control other monsters to build 
a secure lair for himself and his servants. The norkers likewise 
sent out word that here was a place where their fellows could 
dwell safely, with plenty of opportunity for fighting and killing, 
and looting too. The Temple now houses a community of 
monsters based around this same mountain giant, the lord and 
master of the upper and lower levels of the place. By raiding 
and by parting with some coins in payment for supplies 
brought to the Temple by humanoid bands and other giants, 
he has established what he believes is as secure a lair, as 
comfortable a stronghold, as any giant could ever hope for. 

The norkers occasionally raid Gnome Vale for food: game, 
sheep, gnomes, fruit and produce, whatever. The larger mons 
ters accompany them to see that they go and return properly 
and to help carry the loot as well. The mountain giant, Groorg, 
seldom ventures forth anymore, as he has many minions to do 


his bidding. It is not exactly that he has become lazy orfearful, 
it is that he has turned his attention towards the dungeon 
beneath the temple. Treasure has been found there, and every 
so often Groorg and some of his powerful companions will 
venture into its depths to seek out more wealth for the moun 
tain giant's cache of loot. Meanwhile, he enjoys his leisure, 
with many at his beck and call to serve his needs. The weakest 
of his forces, norkers and gnolls, serve as sentries and front 
line troops. Ogres and trolls are at hand to assist with more 
difficult opponents. Groorg himself will usually not go into 
battle above, but he is ready and willing to defend his lower 
domain, for to lose it means the loss of an easy existance, if not 
death. 

Each of you looks at the other. Smiles spread and heads nod in 
silent assent. Your party is, in reality, far too strong for a mere 
band of petty humanoids, but such creatures and a powerful 
leader - that indeed is worthy of you! This offers promise of a 
rich treasure in addition to assisting friends. What more could 
be asked of adventurers such as yourselves? What more 
indeed! 

"TO YOUR HEALTH!", you shout in unison, as your tankards 
are raised. "TO YOUR LONG AND PROSPEROUS RULE! WE 
SET OFF AT DAWN!" 


NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 


Beginning: The party will be briefed and then set off along a 
faint trail leading southwest. Even the best of players will have 
to spend about a week searching to find the object of their 
quest, the lair of their foe, THE FORGOTTEN TEMPLE OF 
THARIZDUN. Random and specific encounters in the wilder 
ness are detailed so as to allow fast and easy handling of this 
portion of the adventure. Once the initial goal has been at 
tained, the party will have to force entry into the TEMPLE and 
then penetrate its depths. This portion of the adventure has 
two levels of play. Players lacking sufficient experience might 
well discover only the obvious portions of the place, cleanse it 
of evil, and return to Gnome Vale thinking that they have done 
well. Truly skilled players will, sooner or later, discover the 
secret rooms where the remainder of paraphernalia of the 
priests of Tharizdun lies waiting, enter the shaft, and go on to 
discover the precincts beyond. 

Tracking: If there is a ranger amongst the party, he or she will 
have normal chances of discovering the trail left by retreating 
norkers over the past months, assuming that there is only a 
05% chance of noting tracks on the eastern half of the map, 
15% chance on the western half. (Use areas 6. and 19. to 
demark this.) Gnomish guides will have the same chance for 
tracking as do rangers. 

Gnome Assistance: Normally, only a gnome scout will accom 
pany the party to assist them in finding the enemy. If the party 
seems particularly weak, the gnomes will furnish them with 
what help they can. Magically this will be one or more of the 
following: +1 shield, +1 suit of chainmail, potion of diminu 
tion, scroll of 6 clerical spells (RAISE DEAD (*3), HEAL, RES 
TORATION, RESURRECTION). The gnomes also have a 
stone controlling earth elementals, but this will not be given. 
Physically, the gnomes will send up to 13 of their number with 
the party - but the party must be WEAK for them to so do. This 
body of troops will be divided into four units of 3 gnomes each: 
3 scout/runners (AC 7, MV 9", 4 h.p. each) with slings (20 


bullets each) and clubs; 3 archers (AC 6, MV 6", h.p. 3 each) 
with bows (short, 20 arrows each) and short swords; 3 spear 
men (AC 5, MV 6", h.p. 4 each) with spears and short swords; 
and 3 pole-armed (AC 5, MV 6", h.p. 5 each) with glaive and 
dagger. They will be commanded by a lieutenant (AC 4, MV 6", 
L 4, h.p. 1B) with spear, short sword, and sling. The gnomes will 
not foolishly throw their lives away. They will remain under 
command of their leader at all times. If the lieutenant is slain, 
the gnomes will return home at the first reasonable opportunity. 

Food and Water Water will be of no particular problem along 
the way, because this portion of the Yatils is well-watered. 
Between pools of water remaining from previous (and recur 
rent) rains and natural springs and freshets, there will be water 
for all. Food is another matter. Game will only be encountered 
in designated encounter areas of the map, whether a rocky area 
or a grassy one. Some browse for horses exists along the 
narrow pathways through the mountains, but after three days, 
horses will have to have a day of normal grazing if feed is limited 
to such browse. Otherwise, horses will not be strong enough to 
ride until one or more days of grazing and recuperation. 
Gnomes will be able to exist on the small game and roots which 
they can find along the way, but the party members, even 
gnomish party members, will not be able to do so. If rations for 
mount and adventurer are not available, then they must be 
found. 

Starvation: Use the following to show the effects of starvation 
on the party: 

Each 8 hours without food -1 hit point 

Each day without food -1 point of strength 

and dexterity 

A normal meal and 8 hours of rest will restore the effects of one 
day of starvation, so a day of normal meals and rest will allow 
full recovery from three days of starvation. 


4 




The Safe Valley Area 13. on the wilderness map is the single 
place in the area where the party is safe from incursions by 
monsters. This will remain so as long as they are careful in their 
coming and going from the place. If they leave an obvious trail, 
or are actually observed going there, their foes will certainly 
follow and attack as opportunity presents. 

Player Characters: As with THE LOST CAVERNS OF TSOJ- 
CANTH, this module is designed for adventuring by up to 12 
player characters. However, it assumes that there will actually 
have been some losses and weakening of power due to adven 
turing. The scenario is ideal for four to eight characters with an 
average of 10th, 9th, or 8th level - less if well-equipped with 
spells and magic items. Party balance requires a cleric and a 
magic-user. If you are actually utilizing this module as an 
adjunct to THE LOST CAVERNS OF TSOJCANTH, you might 
consider what was done in the actual campaign from which 
both were written. The adventurers discovered Gnome Vale in 
the course of seeking the 'CAVERNS. Later, they returned for 
restand recuperation after suffering severe damage exploring 
the latter place. Only three or four of the original party actually 
journeyed to the 'TEMPLE, because, as is usual with any 
group, some of its number were not on hand when it was time 
to adventure. Because only a portion of the group went, the 
gnomes went along. After initial contact and a couple of 
pitched battles, several of the other party members joined the 
three, and the 'TEMPLE was sacked. Losses were minimal, 
because the players were reasonably adept, and hit-and-run 
tactics were used. 

Map Movement: Movement afoot is all that is possible if 
gnomes accompany the party. Although these small demi- 
humans are slow compared to most creatures, they know 
these mountains and are at home in such terrain. Therefore, 
they are able to keep up with humans and travel a full day as 
easily as the stoutest man. 


Movement Rates: 


On a track, afoot 30 hexes 

On a track, horsed 40 hexes 

On a track, mule-back 50 hexes 

Off a track, afoot 1-6 hexes 


Movement in any valley area (numbered on map) is treated the 
same as if the party were on a track. Movement off a track when 
mounted on horse or mule is not possible. When moving afoot in 
the mountains, roll a d6 to determine how far the party will be 
able to move that day. If moving into the mountains near a 
track and then back, allow a minimum of 2 hexes of movement, 
for the party will have some point of reference. 

Movement over known tracks can be increased by 20%. 
Movement over explored mountain terrain is at maximum (6 
hexes) daily rate. 

START (Read to Players): Your party is now proceeding along 
a narrow trail through the mountains. It is actually scarcely 
more than an animal track. This path leads from the far south 
end of Gnome Vale in a southwesterly direction. The gnomes 
have told you that it is from this track that the humanoids and 
monsters have always come. Although the spot is guarded, the 
gnomes are too few to properly defend both entrances to their 
homeland, and have been forced to merely screen this place. 
You all have plenty of fresh water, good ale, and each has a full 
three days of food carefully packed and presented to you by 
the grateful gnomish community. Now it is up to you to trek 
through this wilderness of mountains and hunt down the 
norkers and their master or masters, whomever or whatever 
they may be. 


THE WILDERNESS 


RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

Because this is a relatively small area, already populated with 
its share of monstrous inhabitants, there will be few random 
encounters. Using the table below, check once each day, once 
again at night. Encounter occurs on a 1 in 20 chance, a result of 
1 on the d20 indicating that an encounter has occurred. In the 
case of an encounter, roll a dIO and find the type by use of the 
table: 


RANDOM ENCOUNTERS TABLE 


1. AVALANCHE: The party will hear a faint splintering 
sound followed by a rocky clattering and rumbling. They 
must immediately (count to 10) move or else be subject 
ed to the effects of the avalanche. As this will be a rela 
tively small fall of rock, each party member who fails his 
or her saving throw versus poison will be assumed to 
have been crushed by falling rocks and killed. Each other 
character in the area of the fall will take from 2-20 points 
of damage. Mounts, if any, are assumed to survive or not 
as their riders do. They will likewise suffer 2-20 points of 
damage. No avalanche will block a trail. 

2. 2 BEARS: AC 6; MV 12";HD 6 +6; h.p. 40, 37; #AT 3; D 
1-6/1-6/1-8; SA hug for 2-12; bears are very hungry but 
can be deterred by fire or stopped from attack by giving 
them a mount or three man-days of rations each. 


Die Roll 


Result 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 
9 
0 


avalanche 
bears, cave 
boars, wild 
giants, hill 
giants, stone 
norkers 
ogres 
trolls 
wolves 

false alarm - no encounter 


3. 5 "BOARS": AC 7; MV 15";HD 1 x 3+3,4 x 3; h.p. 21,18. 

16, 15,13; #AT1; D (boar) 3-12, (sows) 2-8; SA boar will 
fight for 4 melee rounds after reaching 0 to -6 hit points 
before dying, sows will fight for 1 round in such condi 
tion, but all are slain instantly at -7 or greater hit points. 


4. 2 GIANTS: AC4; MV 12";HD 8+1-2; h.p. 44,40; #AT1; 

D 2-16; SA hurl rocks to 20" range for 2-16 points of dam 
age; these giants are fairly young and are looking for fun 
and loot, as they have nothing of value themselves, are 
bloodthirsty, and mean. 


5 




5. 2 GIANTS: AC; MV 12" HD 9 =1-3; h.p. 51, 33; #AT 1; 
D3-18 (female), 2-12 (young giant); SA hurl rocks for3-30 
points of damage (female), 2-20 points (young giant). 
This pair is a giantess and her "small" son. They are not 
looking for trouble, being on the course of a journey to 
visit relatives far to the north and west. If offered any 
compensation by the party, the giantess will point out the 
general direction of the Temple, but she will know only 
that bad things dwell there. If these giants are attacked or 
abused, they will defend themselves and never give any 
information. Neither has any treasure. 

6. 30 NORKERS:AC3; MV 9"; HD 1 +2; h.p. 10,2*9.3 X 8,8*7, 
8"6,8><5; #AT 2; D1 -3/1 -. These humanoids are search 
ing for the temple in order to join the band of their fellows 
already there, but they do not know the location of the 
place. They have no treasure other than 1-6 c.p. each. 
They will eventually find the temple if left alive. 


GRASSY VALLEYS: Unless otherwise noted, each such place 
is of no particular note, although there is game in each, and 
monsters are possible on a random encounter basis. Grass will 
quickly restore vitality to mounts, and there are wild fruits and 
vegetables to round out a diet of game. Game typically en 
countered will be: of the herd animal type,small game such as 
rabbit and grouse, and fish found in pools and streams. 

ROCKY VALLEYS: These areas, unless otherwise noted, are 
relatively level, rather barren places. There is game in each 
such place, but there is only a 25% chance that any will be 
encountered on any given day - unless one of the party 
members has a secondary skill of hunting and/or fishing, in 
which case liklihood increases to 50%. Game here will be. 
mountain goats or sheep, small animals, and (rarely) fish. 
There is sufficient grazing in a rocky valley for many horses, 
but it requires continual movement as the vegetation is 
scattered. 


7. 4 OGRES: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4 +1 ;HP 25.23.22,20; #AT 1; 
D 4-10 (spiked clubs for 2d8 +2); SA each ogre has a 
spear which will be hurled at close range, if possible, for 
3-8 points damage prior to melee. These wandering 
monsters have no treasure and are short of food - none 
of which is fit for human consumption. 

8. 2 TROLLS: AC 4; MV 12" HD 6 =6; h.p. 45, 41; #AT 3; 
D 5-8/5-8/2-12; SA fight up to three different opponents in 
any round; SD regenerate 3 points/round three rounds 
after taking damage; these creatures are stalking the 
party and are attacking from ambush, so do not roll for 
surprise for them, only for the party. They have a lair 
nearby, but there is nothing of value therein save a few 
scattered coins (2-20 of each type) and an uncut ame 
thyst worth 400 g.p. 

9. 11 WOLVES:AC 7; MV 18"; HD 2 +2; h.p. 17. 15. 3x14. 
2 x 13 , 2*12,11.10; #AT 1; D2-5. The pack will not attack 
unless they find the party unprepared, or they can get at 
horses or mules unseen. If they are frightened by fire, or 
if one or more of their number are slain, the remainder 
will shadow the party. Their howling will be 50% likely to 
panic mounts not firmly held by rope or rein. Wolves will 
continue to shadow and seek to sneak-attack until over 
half of their number are slain. 

10. FALSE ALARM:The false alarm can be a few rocks fal 
ling, the wind moaning through the rocks, distant bellow 
ing or roaring, or the calls of wolves far away. 


NUMBERED ENCOUNTER AREAS 

All of the various areas do not have specific encounters, al 
though you may elect to devise your own if so desired. General 
and specific explanations follow the encounter area listing. 


1. Grassy valley 

2. Grassy valley 

3. Rocky valley 

4. Wooded valley 

5. Rocky valley 

6. Wooded valley 

7. Rocky valley 

8. Track continues 

9. Rocky valley* 

10. Wooded valley* 

11. Rocky valley 

* See special section for 


12. Track continues 

13. Grassy valley and cave* 

14. Rocky valley 

15. THE TEMPLE'* 

16. Track continues 

17. Grassy valley 

18. Wooded valley* 

19. Wooded valley* 

20. Rocky valley* 

21 Grassy valley 
22. Grassy valley 

numbered areas. 


WOODED VALLEYS: These places are quite inviting and well 
stocked with game of all sorts, as the trees are scattered and 
much grass and like vegetation grows in them. In addition to 
herd animals, the following creatures can be encountered 
randomly: 


boar, wild lynx, giant 

lion, mountain stag, giant 

Any such encounter is at the option of the DM. 


TRACK CONTINUES: When the party moves off the map 
along such a track, simply reverse the map directions and have 
them move on. (Turning the map so that south becomes north 
and vice versa prevents miscalling direction.) After one day off 
map, tell the party that the trail is even narrower than before 
and obviously less used. This should encourage them to turn 
back. Naturally there are no specified encounters in areas off 
the map. so ignore that. After several days of such off map 
movement, revert to normal procedures for wilderness travel in 
mountains, and use the tables for random encounters given in 
the DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE. Given this case, it is likely 
that your adventurers are bound and determined to explore 
westwards into the Yatils, or move south into the marches of 
Ket or north into Perrenland, forgetting the 'FORGOTTEN 
TEMPLE' for a bit longer, at best. If such will absolutely spoil 
your enjoyment and theirs, have them encounter some friendly 
dwarves or a lammasu or similar creature who will return them 
to the map area once again. 

9. PLATEAU OF THE AARAKOCRA: 

12 AARAKOCRA: AC 7; MV 6"/36"; HD 1 +2; h.p 10. 9, 
2x8, 4x7, 2x6, 2*5; #AT 2; D 1-3/1-3; SA 4 javelins each 
(males only) for 2-8 points damage, dive attack at +4 "to 
hit" and double damage, five conjure 8 HD air elemental 
in 3 melee rounds of flying. 

This small tribe of bird people has just recently made its 
home in the area. Half are males, the others female. They 
would not normally allow themselves to be discovered by 
the party, simply taking off and flying so high and far as 
to be unseen by them. However, because of the griffons 
inhabiting area 10., they will send one of their number to 
speak with the party to see if the adventurers are of 
friendly sort. If a friendly exchange takes place, the aara- 
kocra will then descend and ask the party to slay or drive 
off the griffons. In return, the bird folk will gladly guide 
the party to the Temple, although they will not otherwise 
aid them. If hard pressed, the aarakocra will also promise 


6 



the party a dozen gems (base value 100 g.p. each) for 
their slaying of the bird people's hated foes, the griffons 
-the gems payable only upon completion of the task, of 
course. Because it is a new, young tribe, the shaman is a 
female of only first level with a cure light wounds spell 
which works only on aarakocra. Too. although able to 
severally summon an air elemental, they are loath to do 
so because the creature must be brought to the valley 
where the griffons dwell, and each time this has been 
done, the griffons have easily driven off the elemental 
and nearly killed several bird folk. In fact, the tribe initial 
ly numbered 16. 

10. GREAT VALLEY OF THE GRIFFONS: 


These fierce creatures are not afraid of humans, al 
though they have had some experiences with them and 
will exercise considerable caution in attacking unless 
there are horses or mules with the party. The griffons lair 
is a large cave hidden by boulders and brush. It is at the 
western end of the valley. Amidst the litter of their nest 
are the skeletons of a pair of Kettites who fell prey to 
these creatures. One has a jeweled belt of gold (4,500 
g.p. value) still wrapped around its waist. The other 
clutches a +1 scimitar in its boney fingers. There is no 
other treasure. 


13. THE SAFE VALLEY: 


4 GRIFFONS: AC 3; MV 12"/30"; HD 7; h.p 55,51.33,30; 
#AT 3; D1 -4/1 -4/2-16; SA +2 for both "to hit" and damage 
inflicted dice rolls, two largest only, due to great size and 
experience. 


These creatures are a mated pair of very large griffons 
and their nearly-grown offspring. Driven from their nest 
ing place many miles to the north by a brass dragon, the 
pair settled into the valley only a year or so ago and 
immediately had young, for the place teemed with game. 
Having stripped their valley of the larger animals, 
these creatures are now flying further afield in search of 
prey. While they usually hunt to the south and west, an 
occasional aarakocra is considered a tasty side dish, so 
the griffons will try their luck there. After the last expe 
rience, when they had to fight an air elemental, the grif 
fons are not eager to seek out the bird folk, but hunger 
will eventually drive them to it. 



This place is about two-thirds of a mile long, one-third of 
a mile wide, and filled with flowers, shrubs, and a few 
small trees. It is reached only by following the stream 
which flows from it. The way is narrow and rocky, and 
often one must wade into the water to get further up 
stream. Examination of the place will reveal several small 
pools, filled with fish, which give rise to the stream. A 
small, dry cave will also be noted on the southern face of 
the cliffs which surround the valley. This cave allows safe 
lodging, and nearby boulders can be rolled so as to block 
its entrance from marauders of most sorts. While there is 
little in the way of large game here, the fish, small game, 
and various fruits make up for it. There is sufficient food 
here for a party of 12 persons for as many days, and 
horses could graze here twice as long before grass be 
gan to be depleted. 

If the northeastern cliff is explored, the party has a 05% 
chance per member of spotting a goat track which leads 
up the cliff face. The trail leads upwards about 300', 
crosses a narrow saddle, and then proceeds down to a 
point some 20' or so above the track which leads to and 
from the Temple. Once known, this route can be used by 
the party in their excursions against the Temple, thus 
saving them considerable travel and foiling pursuit un 
less seen to be thus escaping. 


15. THE TEMPLE: 

See special section on page 10. 


18. VALLEY OF LEUCROTTA: 

1 LAMIA: AC 3; MV 24"; HD 9; h.p. 53; #AT 1; D 3-6 (+2 
dagger); SA touch drains wisdom at 1 point per, spells: 
CHARM PERSON, MIRROR IMAGE, SUGGESTION, IL 
LUSION (as a wand) one per round, once each per day. 

4 LEUCROTTA: AC 4; MV 18"; HD 6 +1; h.p. 37,34,32,30; 
#AT 1; D3-18; SA imitate human cries for help speeding 
to attack when victim approaches hiding place (thus 
surprise on 4 in 6); SD 2 attacks for 1 -6 h.p. damage each 
in retreat. 

A particularly clever lamia has convinced the four leu- 
crotta to follow and serve her. The alliance is a very 
successful one, and it now controls the valley in which 
the leucrotta originally dwelled, as well as that which the 
lamia had. (See 19.) When the party enters this area, 
there is a 60% chance that they will encounter this 
strange combination. If that is the case, it is 90% likely 
that the lamia and her leucrotta allies will discover the 
party without themselves being seen. The allies will de 
velop a clever attack based on an illusion created by the 


7 



lamia and voice cries of the leucrotta, the illusion actual 
ly masking the advance of the four latter creatures. Once 
they are in melee with the party, the lamia will move 
rapidly into position to use her charm person, sugges 
tion, and wisdom-draining touch in order to gain a victim 
for her dining pleasure. 

The lamia has a bower near the pond, and a search of the 
valley is 50% likely to discover this place. In it is a suit of 
elfin chainmail. a small pouch containing 50 gold pieces, 
a 500 g.p. gem, and a jeweled bracelet worth 1,800 g.p. 
All of her other treasure rests with the inhabitants of area 
20 . 

19. VALLEY OF THE LAMIA: 

There is a 40% probability that the lamia and her leucrot 
ta minions will be encountered here unless they have 
already been met and destroyed elsewhere. There is a 
20% chance that group 1. of the ores at area 20. will be 
here if the lamia is not, (See 20., below.) The five crea 
tures come here to hunt and to raid the ores now dwelling 
in area 20. The latter came to the valley some time back, 
surprised and attacked the lamia, and forced her to flee 
for her life. The ores then looted her treasure and settled 
down to what they thought would be an enjoyable period 
of despoiling the valley to make it more "homey". They 
were rudely awakened when counter-attacked by the 
lamia and her new leucrotta allies. The ores fled to caves 
in the gorge at area 20. The allies now contest with the 
ores for domination of the valley, and ore is often on the 
menu for the lamia and her faithful leucrotta servants. 

20. GORGE OF THE ORCS: 

131 ORCS: The males of the tribe are divided as follows: 


GROUP 1 - Encountered in Area 19. or Patrolling 20J 

1 Leader: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 1 (+1); h.p. 9; #AT 1, D 3-8 
(footman's flail +1 due to strength) 

3 Sergeants: AC 6; MV 9"; HD 1 (+1); h.p. 3x8; #AT 1; D 
3-9 (bardiche +1 due to strength) 

30 Soldiers: AC 6; MV 9"; HD 1; h.p. 3*7, 6x6, 12x5; 
9*4; #AT 1 (bowmen 2); D see below 
10 ores 1-6 (spears) 

6 ores 2-8 (guisarme-voulge) 

6 ores 2-8 (morning stars) 

4 ores 1-4 (It. crossbow) or 2-8 (battle axe) 

4 ores 1 -6 (short bow, 20 arrows) or 1 -6 
(short sword) 

1 Ogre: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4 +1; h.p. 23; #AT 1; D 1-10; 
this monster is the guard and "heavy artillery" for the 
tribe. 

Group 1 is that body of ores serving as guards and hun 
ters for the day. It will always be up to strength, because 
losses will be replaced from the other groups. 


GROUP 2 - Appearing in Area 20. Only: 

1 Sub-chief: AC 4; MV 9"; HD 2; h.p. 12; #AT 1; D 3-10 
(long sword +2 due to strength) 

10 Guards: AC 4; MV 9"; HD 2; h.p. 10x10; #AT 1 
(bowmen 2) D see next column 


5 ores at 3-8 (glaive +2 due to strength) 

5 ores at 3-8 (short blow +2 due to strength) or 
3-8 (hand axe +2 due to strength) 

1 Lieutenant (leader): As per Group 1 
3 Sergeants: As per Group 1 
30 Soldiers: As per Group 1 

This body of ores will come to the aid of group 1 one turn 
(10 rounds) after it is alerted due to the sound of battle or 
a call for help. It is standing to in the tribe's cave complex, 
and if that place is entered, the numbers encountered 
will read from the bottom up, each section appearing one 
round after the other, i.e. immediate encounter with 30 
soldiers, 3 sergeants come on round 2, 1 lieutenant on 
round 3, 10 guards on round 4, and the sub-chief on 
round 5. 

GROUP 3 - Appearing in Area 20. Only: 

1 Chief: AC 3; MV 9" HD 3; h.p. 18; #AT 1; D 5-11 
(bastard sword +3 due to strength) 

10 Guards: AC 4; MV 9"; HD 3; h.p. 14: #AT 1; D 4-11 
(long sword +3 due to strength); SA tribal standard (+1 
for all within sight of it) 

1 Shaman (half-orc/hobgoblin): AC 4; MV 9"; HD 3; 
h.p. 16; #AT 1; D 3-8 (footman's mace +1 due to 
strength); SA 6th level shaman spells: cure light 
wounds (x2), blindness, dispell magic 

6 Guards: AC 4; MV 9"; HD 3; h.p. 12; #AT 1; D 4-9 
(glaive +3 due to strength) 

This group will take two turns to prepare and come into 
battle unless advanced warning is given or an attack is 
expected. In the latter case, they will be ready and appear 
in but 5 rounds, actually prior to the second body of 
troops lead by the sub-chief. In situations where strong 
opponents are recognized, the shaman will cast his resist 
fire spells, first on himself, then on the chief. The shaman 
will stay sheltered behind his guards whenever possible, 
especially until he has had to apply a cure light wounds 
spell to the chief. Thereafter, he is likely to venture forth 
to use darkness, blindness, and dispel magic as needed. 
The chant spell will usually be employed after the open 
ing of battle, prior to his engaging in melee. 

These are Ores of the Rotting Eye tribe, belonging to the 
clan of the Jagged Knife. The standard is a huge, glaive 
like knife blade with a serrated edge. This blade is col 
ored a rust red and atop a long shaft, beneath it being the 
circular targe depicting a rotting eye colored yellow- 
green and red. This symbol is repeated on the shields of 
the soldiers, with the jagged-bladed knife seeming to 
grow out of the rotting eye device. Guards and ranking 
figures wear dull red clothing. The sub-chief, shaman, 
and chief also have cloaks of yellowish green, the chief's 
being striped with red. the shaman's merely bordered 
with that color. 

Within the cave complex which houses the ores are 
about 60 females and some 120 young. 

The map of the complex shows the location of the tribal 
treasure, in the small area behind the chief's cave. This 
treasure consists of: 

In a rough chest - 4,000 c.p., 600 s.p., 200 e.p.. 90 g.p., 

7 p.p. 


8 



In a silver coffer (value 650 g.p.) - 1 piece of wrought 
silver jewelry, 2 pieces of wrought silver and gold 
jewelry, 1 piece of wrought gold jewelry, and 1 amber 
flask of perfume (value 1,300 g.p.) 

In a leather pouch - 23 base 50 g.p. gems. 


C. Cliff-like stone face to the east of the track. This wall is at 
least a score of feet straight up, and in some places even 
higher. It is as if the pathway to the Temple was hewn 
from a ledge so as to purposely leave this wall on one 
side and a precipice on the other. It also is climbable by a 
thief or one with similar skills. 


In three sealed pottery bottles - potion of polymorph 
(self), philtre of love, poison. 



THE FORGOTTEN TEMPLE OF THARIZDUN 

As you proceed north up the track it becomes apparent that 
there is more traffic on this part, for it becomes progressively 
broader and well-traveled. Peering ahead, what you first take 
for a flat-topped mountain is something else. Atop a low peak is 
a two-stepped construction of basalt, a sort of pyramid from 
the way its sides slope. This place was hidden from view until 
you rounded the side of the mountain you are now on. You 
note that the trail leads directly to the strange, black building; 
and, as you come within 100 yards of the place, you begin to 
get some idea of its size. The construction's upper story ap 
pears to be about 80' square and 40' high. The lower floor, 
seeming to grow directly out of the mountain rock, is some 
160' square and likewise 40' high. The track leads across a 
bridge and up a steep ramp to the upper story of the place. 

DM Notes: The two overviews of the Temple show the general 
physical contours of the mountains (map 1.) and the approach 
to the Temple and the Temple proper (map 3.). These are 
provided in order to make it relatively easy for you to handle 
action which occurs somewhere outside the Temple. 

Map 3: The explanation keys are: 

A. Narrow track about 4' wide. It has a natural rock wall to 
the west, as if to prevent those using the path from 
plummeting into area B. 

B. Deep ravine which separates the southern peak from the 
one upon which the Temple is built. There is a precipice 
to the west of the track (A.) which falls about 100" to the 
bottom of this ravine. The rock walls are climbable by a 
thief, of course, for they are rough and easily surmoun 
table to an experienced climber. 


D. Natural and worked stone piers rising from the ravine to 
the track above. Here the pathway widens to about 6' and 
is of great stone slabs. A 2' thick wall on either side rises 
to about waist height. The whole forms a bridge from the 
southern mountain, over the ravine, to a spur of the 
northern formation. (A distance of about 50' from natural 
stone to natural stone). The northern portion has been 
worked so that the track feeds to a steeply rising 
rampway. 


E. Walled ramp widening from 6' width at bridge mouth to 
about 16'width as it climbs to above the mid-point of the 
lower block of the Temple. 


F. Similar ramp climbing to roof level of the lower block to 

permit entry through the great portal of the upper block 
of the Temple. 


G. Rampway leading to flights of steep, narrow steps which 
allow entry to the roof of the upper block of the Temple. 

H. Upper roof of black stone slabs. Here, careful examina 
tion will reveal worn glyphs in a strange language. If a 
read magic spell is used, the reader will discover that 
these glyphs send curses to the bringers of light, the 
blinders, and all responsible for wrapping blackness in 
everlasting chains. 


Map #2 




XI 

PATH 


9 














General Notes: There are absolutely no windows in the 
Temple. Other than through the open doorway on the first 
(upper) level, no light penetrates the place. Ceiling height is 
about 30'. The pillars shown on the maps indicate where thick 
columns rise to the roof. From them spring stone arches and 
buttresses. Walls are about 2' thick on the interior. The outer 
walls are, of course, of varying thickness, as the exterior 
portions slope sharply out. All stone is dull black, including the 
dungeon level beneath the temple. 

The dungeon level has a vaulted corridor some 30' high 
running from the northern cavern area to the south terminus. 
The main east-west corridor is also 30' high. The lesser 
complexes are just under 20' in height, except where noted to 
the contrary. 

Sentries: There are always sentries watching the approach to 
the Temple. If the original guards are slain by the party, more 
will be posted. Of course, once the entire force of monsters is 
wiped out, this rule will no longer apply. 

Random Encounters: There are no wandering monsters in the 
Temple. All encounters are shown on the various keys. If an 
encounter area is cleared of monsters, nothing further will be 
encountered there, except as noted below. 

Reinforcements: Every week some type of potentially useful 
monsters come into the Temple area. If the force there is in 
need of strengthening, then these creatures will be recruited. If 
the party manages to clear the Temple inside one week, or if 
they are assaulting it on the eighth day, fifteenth day, etc., 
reinforcement will not come. Otherwise use the following 
table: 

Dice Roll Reinforcement 


01 - 50 21 - 30 norkers 

51 - 75 3 - 6 ogres 

76 - 90 2 - 4 trolls 

91-00 1-2 hill giants 


The other inhabitants of the place are special cases and will 
not be replaced. 

Defense of the Upper Level: Initially, the upper level of the 
Temple should be relatively easy for the party to capture, as 
the guards will be nothing more than a group of norker guards 
with some miscellaneous assistants. However, help will be 
sent upwards quickly, and when the''big guns" begin appearing 
from below, it is probable that the party will retire to regroup 
and plan an assault which will allow them to penetrate to the 
lower level with great speed. This is where you may have some 
real fun using your DMing ingenuity. 

Once alerted to the threat of a second attack, the Temple 
inhabitants will organize to beat the attackers before they 
enter the upper level, let alone go below. To this end the giants 
will gather up a goodly supply of boulders - say 11 - 20 of 
about 2V6' - 3' diameter. A supply of smaller rocks for hurling 
will also be laid by. Oil and acid will be readied. 

The stone slabs of the ramp floor of area 1. on the upper level 
map can be lifted up and placed upon the wall of rocks across 
the way. This will add 3 feet of height to the wall and provide a 
trench which can be deepened to at least 2 feet in depth. Giants 
can easily crouch behind this barricade, boulders and rocks 
handy. At a signal, the boulders will be tossed so as to roll 
down the rampway and funnel across the bridge and along the 
path. Suggested determination for damage is as follows: 


STRUCK BY ROLLING BOULDER: 100% - 1% per 
dexterity point, -2% per foot of pathway over 3' wide, 
-10% if boulder must travel over 100' to hit target, 
DAMAGE WHEN STRIKING, 5-30 points. 

FALLING IN FRONT OF ROLLING BOULDER: Slipping 
from climbing wall (thief etal.), slipping from guard wall 
(any character failing to roll dexterity or less on 2d20). 
DAMAGE EQUALS FALL DAMAGE (if any) +5-30 points. 

STRUCK BY HURLED ROCK: As usual for monster 
hurling it. 

Once the party overcomes this "crust" defense, however, 
the upper level will have to be yielded to them, and the 
defenders will attempt to hold whatever lower portions of 
the place as their strength allows. 

Slipping and Falling: Obviously, those with thief ability to 
climb can easily be handled regarding a slip. If they do not 
make their climbing score, they slip and fall. If any other party 
member attempts to climb the wall, allow a 50% chance of 
slipping and falling per 5' of upwards movement. Even a 
successful climb once by such a character does not mean that 
the next attempt will have any better odds. 

Anyone, thief or not, opting to hop up on the guard wall which 
borders the track on the west and both sides of the bridge in 
order to avoid an onrushing boulder, is in for possible disaster, 
as these missiles tend to bounce from side to side on their 
downward roll. The wall struck will, of course, jump and flex 
upon being struck. Although there is only a 20% chance that 
the boulder will strike a wall section which a character is 
seeking refuge upon (and in no event will it ever strike two 
contiguous or opposite sections), if it does so strike, the 
character or characters atop it are in trouble. There is a base 
chance of 100% that they will fall. Reduce this chance by 
dexterity if standing on the wall, strength if clinging to it. 75% 
of falls will be away from the track - into the ravine below. 25% 
will be onto the track, but in the latter event, 75% of the time the 
character will fall behind the course of the boulder and take no 
damage. 

Defense in General: Although the organized defenders are of 
chaotic nature, they can present a reasonably well-co- 
ordinated, intelligent plan of defense of their stronghold. They 
are fighting for their lives, and they are all too aware of this fact. 
They will fight cleverly and to the death - but only if absolutely 
necessary. In general, they will hold an area as long as 
possible, then they will beat a fighting retreat to another area of 
defense. Once cornered,they will tend to fight to the last, 
unless the party has shown some indication that they will grant 
quarter (a real show of weakness in the eyes of norkers and the 
rest!). 

Superior Dungeon Mastering: It is absolutely necessary that 
you be completely familiar with the levels and the inhabitants 
of them in order to properly DM this scenario. 
It is far easier to "wing" an outdoor adventure than a dungeon 
one, and this is no exception. Once you are familiar with the 
entire place, make the whole your own by adding whatever 
touches you believe will be likely to create more challenge for 
your players and bring the whole module to "life" as an epic 
heroic fantasy adventure. 


UPPER LEVEL 

1. LOW STONE WALL BLOCKING RAMPWAY: As you 
approach the entry to this strange place, you see that 
there is a low wall of rough stones blocking the way. It 
appears to be about 3' high and almost as wide. Some 20' 


10 


beyond this obstruction is the gaping portal of the upper 
block (apparently the only entrance to the place). 

There is nothing behind this barrier (at least initially). It is 
used as a line of defense against brute creatures, as a line 
of demarcation otherwise. As soon as the party begins to 
cross the wall, the defenders will loose their missiles and 
send for assistance from their masters below. 

2. ENTRANCEWAY: The looming wall of black stone is 
pierced by a flat-topped portal. The entry is nearly 20' 
wide and also 20' high. A great stone lintel over 30' 
wide and 6' high supports the roof. There are places in 
the stone posts on either side which indicate that at one 
time some sort of doors closed off this entrance, but all 
traces of these valves have disappeared. (The gates were 
of wood, studded and bound with iron. Age rotted them, 
and the wood was used for fires, the iron for weapons 
and the like, by the creatures who now inhabit the place.) 

In the deep shadows of this gateway, two sentries with 
sharp eyesight watch the path to the Temple. At the first 
sign of approach, one will step back to alert the remainder 
of the force while the other maintains watch. 

Secured to the lintel of the entrance, 10' inside the place, 
and out of sight of approaching foes, is a large net of 
thick ropes. It is about 20' square and positioned so that 
when it drops, it will fall upon the area just beyond the 
entrance. Of course, this effectively traps any creatures 
unwary enough to venture in. It is triggered by lines to 
east and west. Upon a word from the other norkers or 
gnolls (areas 3-5.), the defenders in areas 6. and 7. will 
tug these lines and free the net to drop. 

Party members 10' to 30' inside the upper level, and not 
east or west of the center 20' entrance line, might be 
caught in the net trap. Those characters positioned near 
the edge of the area where the net falls must roll a score 
of their dexterity or less on 4d6. Those in the center area 
are trapped, no saves. 

Netted characters are unable to use weapons or cast 
spells. They have no dexterity bonus with respect to 
armor class and they can not effectively move. The 
weight of the net and its tarry, clinging ropes is such that 
all under it are most effectively trapped for that round 
and the following one. Those near the edge can slip out 
in two rounds and be ready to fight again on the third, 
providing that they are not overwhelmed meanwhile. 
Those in the center area are trapped for from three to six 
rounds, depending on the roll of a d4. 

If all of the party members are trapped under the net, all 
of the nearby norkers and gnolls will attack. The norkers 
will leap upon the netted characters to bite and club 
them, while the gnolls will stab at those attempting to slip 
out from under the edges of the trap. The remainder of 
the force will arrive on the second round, and unless a 
miracle occurs, the adventure is over. 

However, if any character remains untrapped, the hidden 
forces of norkers (areas 6. and 7.) will remain in waiting 
to take the foe by surprise; but, those to either hand 
(areas 4. and 5.) will rush to attack those in the net. while 
the gnoll archers (area 3.) fire at the members of the party 
not enmeshed in the net. In this case, the norkers will 
attempt to hold the edges of the net down, attacking 
those near the edge, and making it take from five to eight 


rounds to escape in this manner. Meanwhile, however, 
characters with daggers or short swords can cut the net, 
freeing themselves in five to eight rounds, less one round 
for every +1 of the weapon used to cut the strands 

(If the party is particularly powerful, the net trap is to be 
reinforced with chains, weighted edges, and at least 20 
large hooks. These devices will make escape nearly 
impossible for those caught under the net, and the hooks 
will both hold them and inflict 1 -4 points of damage per 
round. Use your DM creativity here!) 

Positioning of Guards: The norkers and gnolls guarding the 

upper level of the Temple are stationed in the numbered areas. 

As these positions will not be the same when the party enters 

the area, initial positioning is given here first: 

3. 6 Gnolls: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 2;h.p.12,11,2*10,2x8; #AT 2 
or 1; D 2-8 (great bow, 20 arrows each, or battle axe) 
These archers will advance to the fore of the pillar so as 
to fire at enemies coming over the wall. When necessary, 
they will move left and right to take positions in areas 4. 
and 5., three going to each position. 

4. 6 Norkers: AC 3; MV 9"; HD 1 +2; h.p. 9, 8, 4*7; #AT 2; 
D 1-3/1-6. These guards are stationed so as to be 
protected by the boxes, bales, barrels and stones and 
rocks piled from the number (4.) to the pillar to the north. 
They will hold this position as long as possible. 

5. 6 Norkers: As above.These guards are likewise behind a 
line of cover and will behave as those at 4. 

6. 4 Norkers: AC 3;MV 9" HD 1 +2;h.p.2*8,7,6;#AT1 then 
2; D 1-6 (hurled axes) then 1-3/1-6. These guards are 
stationed so as to surprise the enemy flank or rear, hurl 
missiles upon it, and then rush into melee. Their position 
is screened by a wall so that enemies entering will not 
notice them (theirattention being attracted by the gnolls 
and norkers on either hand ahead of them). 

7. 4 Norkers: As above. 

8. 1 Norker AC 3; MV 9" HD 1 +2; h.p. 6; #AT 2; D 1-3/1-6. 
This guard is stationed so as to be able to observe the 
action. As soon as the gnolls advance to fire on an 
approaching enemy, the guard will move down the flight 
of stairs to the north so that only his eyes and the top of 
his head are exposed. If any enemy is seen to enter the 
place, the guard will immediately slip on down the 
remainder of the stairway and alert the next level as to 
what is going on. This will take 2 rounds. On the third 
round, the guard will return to his position to guard the 
stairs until reinforcements arrive from below. 

9. 1 Norker Subchief: AC 2; MV 9"; HD 3; h.p. 17: #AT 2; 

D1-3/4-10 (morning star +2 due to strength) 

3 Norker Sergeants: AC 3; MV 9"; HD 2; h.p. 16, 15.14; 

#AT 2; D 1-3/2-7 (+1 due to strength) 

4 Norkers: AC 3; MV 9"; HD 1 +2; h.p. 8, 3*7; #AT 1; 

D 1-3/1-6 

This group will position itself so as to fill the space 
between the north end of the defense line of the group at 
area 5. and block the stairs down in theirarea (east half of 
the level). Of course, if they can flank attackers as they so 
move, they will do so. 


11 



10. 1 Gnoll Leader AC 4; MV 9"; HD 3; h.p. 18;#AT 1 ;D 3-10 

(battle axe +2 due to strength) 

5 Gnolls: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 2; h.p. 12.11.10.9.8, #AT 1; 
D 2-8 

This group will perform much as the norkers at area 9. 
They co-operate fully with their norker allies. 

3. INTERIOR OF THE LEVEL: As you examine the area it 
becomes apparent that the whole place is a virtually 
open room of huge size. Thick stone pillars support the 
stone ceiling about 30' above. Protruding columns along 
the walls also indicate that the tremendous weight of the 
great stone roof is supported by these buttresses. All of 
the stone is well-shaped but dull. It bears no sculpture, 
no ornamentation, not even any form of paint to brighten 
and enliven the vista. The floors are of like material, 
lusterless, and well-worn. 

ORDER OF APPEARANCE (and Roster): In an assault where 
the party is attempting to force entry by brute strength, or in 
the case of protracted raids, the following "troops" will be 
available to the defenders. The presentation is for a single 
frontal assault situation. In an attrition situation (where raids 
have caused losses) move forces so as to provide a continuing 
permanent guard on the upper level, and adjust reinforcements 
accordingly. It is logical to place the really tough monsters on 
the front line after an assault which seriously reduces the 
numbers of "lights" - norkers, gnolls, and ogres. (Remember 
also that some replacements will probably be available each 
week.) 

Initial Defenders: 


Gnolls 


6 Archers 

(AC 5) 

- 12, 11, 10. 10, 8, 8 

5 Others 

(AC 5) 

- 12, 11, 10. 9. 8 

1 Subchief 

(AC 4) 

- 18 

Norkers 



6 Guards 

(AC 3) 

-9, 8, 7. 7. 7, 7 

6 Guards 

(AC 3) 

- 9, 8. 7, 7, 7, 7 

4 "Axers" 

(AC 3) 

- 8, 8, 7, 6 

4 "Axers" 

(AC 3) 

- 8, 8, 7, 6 

4 Guards 

(AC 3) 

-8. 7. 7. 7. 

3 Sgts. 

(AC 3) 

- 16, 15, 14 

1 Subchief 

(AC 3) 

- 17 

Arriving at the End of 3 Melee Rounds 

2 Norkers 

(AC 3) 

- 6. 6 

Arriving at the End of 4, 5, or 6 Melee Rounds (1/2-5/6) 

(#3) 3 Trolls 

(AC 4) 

- 38,36,33 EAST STAIRS 

(#24) 2 Trolls 

(AC 4) 

- 39,31 WEST STAIRS 

(#23) 1 Giant Troll 

(AC 2) 

- 54 WEST STAIRS 

Arriving at the End of 8, 9, or 10 Melee Rounds (1/2-4/5-6) 

(#9) 2 Ogres 

(AC 4) 

- 25,22 EAST STAIRS 

(#25 8 Norkers 

(AC 3) 

- 9. 8, 7. 6, 

& 26) 


9, 8. 7, 6 WEST STAIRS 


Arriving at the End of 11,12, or 13 Melee Rounds (1/2-5/6 


(B-D) 9 Norkers 

(AC 3)* 

- 7, 6, 5, 7. 
6, 5,7, 6,5 

WEST STAIRS 

1 Round Later 

(E-G) 9 Norkers 

2 Rounds Later 

(AC 3)* 

-7,6,5,7, 

6,5,7,6.5 

WEST STAIRS 

(H) 3 Norkers 

(AC 3)' 

- 7,6,5 

WEST STAIRS 

3 Rounds Later 




(#31) 4 Ogres 

(AC 3)" 

- 29, 27. 
25,24 

WEST STAIRS 

Arriving at the End of 13,14, or 15 Melee Rounds (1/2/4-6) 

(#30) 2 Norkers 

(AC 3) 

- 14,13 

EAST STAIRS 

1 Round Later 




(#30) Witchdoctor 

(AC 2) 

- 21 

EAST STAIRS 


Arriving at the End of 16,17, or 18 Melee Rounds (1/2/ 3-6) 


(#29) 4 Ogres (AC 5) -23,21, 

18, 17 WEST STAIRS 

Arriving at the End of 19,20, or 21 Melee Rounds (1/2-4/5-6) 


(#1, 6. 6 Norkers (AC 3) -8,6,7, 

& 14) 5, 6,6 EAST STAIRS 

(#1, 6. 6 Norkers (AC 3) - 8, 6. 7, 

& 14) 5, 6. 6 WEST STAIRS 

Arriving at the End of 23,24, or 25 Melee Rounds (1/2-3/4-6) 


(#15,32) 6 Gnolls (AC 4) -15. 15. 12, 

11,11,11 EAST STAIRS 
(#15,32)6 Gnolls (AC 4) -15,12,12, 

11,11,11 WEST STAIRS 


AVAILABLE AS SITUATION DICTATES FROM 6th MELEE 
ROUND ON 

(#2) 2 Hill Giants (AC 4) -42,39 
(#8) 1 Mountain (AC 2) -78 

Giant 

'These are bearers of 10-flask capacity oil kegs; their 
burdens will be set aside immediately, and the bearers be 
in melee on the next round. 

"Trained to hurl missiles up to 9", these ogres will 
immediately begin hurling these kegs on the round after 
they arrive, aiming at figures with or near torches. 

Note: Gnolls with pole arms will be in the rear with arms 
lowered to protect front rank of archers: thus attacker 
must take 2 bow shots and pole arm attack to fight gnoll 
archer. 


12 



Last Ditch: If after a protracted struggle involving the majority 
of the "troops" detailed above the forces of the mountain giant, 
Groorg, are defeated, the survivors will flee to the lower level. 
There, most will go to theirown areas, seeking refuge. Note the 
level key to show which are alive and with how many hit points. 
There defenders will NOT be susceptible to surprise for 
several days, and they will attempt to set up whatever ambushes 
and protective barriers they can devise within their lairs. Be 
creative! Survivors are trapped and will tend to fight to the 
death. 

The surviving gnolls and norkers will beat a fighting retreat 
down the east or west stairs, depending on which is easier. 
They will then use corridor 1. -6.. east or west, as a cleared lane 
to detect the enemy, while the mass of them shelters in area 14. 
As pursuit comes south, they will harass the enemy with 
missiles, if possible; otherwise with suicide groups, while the 
rest slip through area 14. and go north up the corridor to which 
the enemy is opposite. All these humanoids will then return 
up the stairs to the upper level. If their number is greater than 
20 total, they will set up an ambush for returning foes provided 
that they have a leader with them - witchdoctor, subchief, or 
sergeant. If 20 or fewer survive, or if they are leaderless, they 
will flee the Temple. If an ambush is devised, rocks and the like 
will be dropped on persons if possible, and missile troops will 
shelter themselves. Again, be creative! 

General cooperation will absolutely deteriorate when a defeat 
occurs, so do not band all of the fleeing survivors together. 
Outside of the humanoids, who are used to fighting in loosely 
organized bands anyway, the surviviors are now on a "save 
yourself" basis, although trolls might group with trolls, ogres 
with ogres. If the monsters were of lawful alignment, 
organization, plans, and timing would be well determined in 
advance, and a defense would be better overall. However, 
these fellows are chaotic. 

4. BOXES. CRATES. BARRELS, AND BALES: The heap of 
such materials as are typically found in a warehouse is 
confusing because of its condition - disarrayed to say 
the least. Examination reveals that the contents of these 
containers are mainly foodstuffs of dubious quality for 
human consumption, cheap and shoddy cloth, water, 
and not much else. 

If a careful inspection is made, one box with enough 
dried meat to feed about 100 persons will be found; and 
this meat is quite acceptable to human palates. One 
barrel is filled with wine of reasonable quality (40 gallons 
volume), but nothing else of any real worth is amongst 
the stuff. 

5. MORE BARRELS, BOXES,SACKS.CRATES, ANDSTUFF: 
Another jumbled heap of materials is lined up to the east. 
When you look it over, you realize that there is nothing of 
much value here, although one of the sacks contains 
dried galda (both fruit and seed-nut) enough for 100 
persons. The other foodstuffs and cloth are so poor as to 
be unsuitable for you. 

Close examination of one smallish crate will uncover a 
stick of 10 score of arrows suitable for use in a longbow. 

6. SCREENED AREA: The wall running from the entry 10' 
into the room effectively screens off this area from 
immediate view. Piles of old clothing, cloth, rags, and 
leaves show that about a dozen norkers bedded down 
here regularly. You kick through the stuff, but there is 
nothing worth taking. 


7. SCREENED AREA: This area is a repeat of the one to the 
east. Rooting around in the bedding reveals a small bag 
with 30 silver pieces in it, but nothing else. 

Again, nothing else of any value is in the area. 

8. STAIRS DOWN TO THE LOWER LEVEL: A heavy stone 
wall divides two flights of steps, both evidently going 
down to the area below. By peering down you can see 
that they run north for 20', have a 10' landing, and then 
turn east and west respectively. 

9. LITTERED QUARTER: The floor here shows signs of 
small fires, and there are many heaps of stuff - more 
beds evidently. From the look of it, some dozen or so 
norkers slept here. Although you search more thoroughly 
here, none of these filthy sleeping places reveals any 
treasure. 

The burned sticks and ashes of one fire hide the treasure 
of the subchief, a large piece of jade worth 1,000 g.p. 
There is no other treasure. 

10. LITTERED QUARTER: Just as the section of the level to 
the northeast, so too is this one covered with heaps of old 
cloth and leaves and grass. Only, from the size of these 
heaps, it is evident that some dozen gnolls bedded down 
here. A search of the largest heap reveals a rather nice 
feather pillow with a somewhat soiled silk covering, a 
large sack containing 247 gold pieces, and a small 
dagger with a silver handle and a topaz set in the pommel 
(value 350 g.p.). All the rest is mere junk. 



Feeling the pillow will easily reveal that it holds nothing 
save feathers, rather lumpy, but perhaps worth keeping. 
Hidden within the stuffing of down is a Quaal's Feather 
Token, a strange arrow-like feather with four shafts. 
When placed against a bowstring, this Token becomes a 
+4 magic arrow cluster - obviously more than one 
arrow, yet but a single shaft as far as aiming and firing are 
concerned. Once fired, the missile divides instantly into 
four arrows. If more than one opponent is before the 
archer, each arrow will seek out a separate target, so that 
up to four will be struck potentially. The target originally 
aimed at will always get one arrow, plus any odd ones. 

There is nothing else of value in the area. 

LOWER LEVEL 

1. LANDING: As one comes down the stairs, the floor of this 
area is immediately noticeable. Instead of the dull black 


13 


I 


of the level above, it is of polished obsidian. So too the 
wall to the north, but this has something else. If gazed at 
intently, it seems as if a faint pattern of figures outlined in 
deep purple can be discerned, but to look so causes the 
eyes to ache. A mere glance reveals no such tracery, and 
no amount of staring can last long enough to actually 
discover what, if anything, is weirdly limned on the wall. 
(A gem of seeing or a like spell will reveal that there are 
moving figures on the wall, but they can only be vaguely 
discerned with normal sight. These robed mannequins 
march in an unending stream, seeming to come from 
behind a hill and go into oblivion through a spinning 
vortex of mauve.) 

2 Workers: AC 3; MV 9"; HD 1 +2; h.p. 8. 6; #AT 1; 
D1-3/1-6. These two guards stand so that one watches 
the steps while the other looks south down the corridor. 
If there is trouble above, the sentry from there will 
carefully relate what is occuring to these two guards, and 
then he will return to his post at the head of the steps. The 
two guards will immediately split up, one moving down 
the corridor to the south to alert the sentries at area 14., 
the other to warn the inhabitants of areas 2. and 3. or 23, 
and 24. as applicable. 

2. LARGE ANTECHAMBER:This square room has strange 
striations of color on its walls. These lines of plum-color, 
mauve veins, and lilac worms, make the beholder some 
what nauseous if he stares at them for more than a few 
seconds. These colors are faint, but they seem to writhe 
and twist when not looked at, as if as soon as the viewer 
looked away they took up some secretive and obscene 
motion observable only from the corner of the eye. There 
is a single door in the place, a slab of ancient bronzewood 
on the west wall. 

2 Hill Giants: AC4; MV 12"; HD8 +1 -2; h.p. 42,39; #AT 1; 

D 2-16; SA hurl rocks for 2-16 points of damage; each 

has both a club and 3 rocks in a huge sack. 

When the alarm is raised, these two giants will rouse the 
inhabitants of area 3. and then proceed to area 8. where 
the leader will give them instructions. 

Furnishings: Whatever furniture was originally in the 
place, no one knows, for all that now occupies the 
chamber are two huge mounds of bedding - ogre or 
giant sleeping places. There are two small casks of 
water, one by each "bed". A large sack also rests by each 
bed, but each seems to be virtually empty (and, in fact, 
holds only a couple of stones). 

Treasure: Each giant has a stash of gold coins in his bed. 
One totals 1,203 g.p., the other adds up to 1,722. They 
have nothing else of value. 

3. MAUVE CHAMBER: This 40' long, 20' wide room has 
walls of mauve-colored material. While they could be of 
highly polished stone, none of you have ever seen 
anything like it before, so you are uncertain as to what it 
is. A quick test reveals that the substance seems of 
mineral nature and is as hard as granite. The floor and 
ceiling are of the polished obsidian seen elsewhere, but 
the floor has pyramids incised on it, one every few feet, 
all with bases to the north, points to the south. The 
ceiling also seems to have carving, this in bas relief. 
Peering upwards, you think that it shows patterns of 
tentacles and human figures, interlocked, but the work is 
so intricate as to make a certain identification impossible. 

3 Trolls: AC 4; MV 12"; HD 6 +6; h.p. 38, 36, 33; #AT 3; 

D 5-8/2-12; SA fight up to three different opponents in 

any round; SD regenerate 3 points/round three rounds 

after taking damage. 


When alerted by the giants, or any other inhabitant of the 
place, these monsters will move immediately through 
areas 2. and 1go up the stairs, and attack any enemy 
they discover in the upper area. 

Furnishings: The rotten remains of a bed, couch, table, 
and chairs indicate that this was once the bed chamber 
of some important figure. The bed and the couch have 
been converted into troll nests. The reek of those 
stinking monsters, and the remains of their feeding, 
make it doubly disgusting. There is a battered armoire 
against the north wall with one door missing, but its 
drawers still intact. A moldering pile of cloth in the 
bottom of the cabinet shows where some article of 
apparel ends its days. The drawers, opened, reveal the 
same. 

Treasure: The trolls each wear their treasure, one a 
golden ring with a diamond (value 3,000 g.p.) on its 
finger, the other a jade bracelet on a thong around its 
neck. (The bracelet is fragile, and a fall will destroy it. but 
intact it is worth 5,000 g.p.) Behind the bottom drawer is a 
small copper box. green with verdigris. Inside it are 7 
pieces of Incense of meditation, but due to its age, there 
is a 50% probability that its dweomer's efficacy will have 
failed and the block produce nothing other than a 
grayish smoke (which does nothing special). 

4. SECRET DOOR:This rotating wall section is so cleverly 
made so as to defy detection by visual inspection. A 
tapping of the exact spot of the secret door will sound 
slightly different than the rest of the wall (1 in 4 chance of 
noting this slight difference). The door operates by 
pressing inwards and downwards with the palms held at 
shoulder height. A 2Vi' wide section of the wall will then 
turn clockwise forcing the individual into the secret room 
(5.). See also the special paragraph pertaining to the 
INSET AREA designated by color on the level map. 

5. SECRET ROOM;The only methodof entry into this area 
is through the secret door (4.) in area 3. Once inside the 
room there is no egress save by repeating the process of 
secret door activation, except this time to the south, 
where the revolving wall section will allow entry into the 
INSET AREA only (see below). 

Furniture: The room once held treasures of paintings, 
tapestries, and exquisite furniture. Dampness and the 
decay of time has brought all to ruin including one small 
table inlaid with semi-precious gemstones. However, if a 
careful search of the mound of decaying wood is made, 
from 21-40 gems of base 10 g.p. value will be found. 
(Other items of small size or precious metal were long 
ago removed from this place.) 

Inset Area: This secret area is a low-ceilinged room partially 
under the flight of stairs from the upper level. It can be reached 
from room 5. or from the secret closets off of areas 21. and 22. It 
can be exited by the latter means as well, or through use of the 
pivoting wall section, with entry to area 3. The features of note 
in this area are: 

1) Spy hole to corridor and beyond. 

2) Secret closet containing: 3 strange, hooded robes of 
deep purple, 2 iron thuribles with iron chains, and an iron 
box, all iron unrusted. Detect magic will reveal dweomer 
on all items, an abjuration on the robes, an abjuration on 
the iron items, and a faint aiteration/invocation also 
coming from the box. The robes are very long, fully 7' but 
by use of the black cord belt each has, the hem can be 
adjusted so as to just sweep the ground. The sleeves are 


14 


so long as to reach at least V below the hands of even a 
long-armed man. With each robe is a long, pointed hood 
whose front and back points reach well down on the 
wearer's torso, and whose sides cover the shoulders. The 
pointed front and back pieces are decorated with inverted, 
two-tiered black pyramids. Each hood has narrow, 
slanting eye holes. The pointed top extends a foot or 
more above the crown of the wearer's head. The thu ribles 
open by pressing a catch at their equator. The bottom 
hemisphere has a cup-shaped depression, as if to 
receive something rounded. The box of iron opens only 
by touching its lid and speaking the name "Tharizdun", a 
knock spell, or a chime of opening. Inside are 18 small 
black globes - incense to fit inside the thuribles. Each 
ball burns for 3 turns without any noticeable smoke, 
heat, or light, as long as the thurible is kept in motion. 

The effects of this incense are evident only in the 
Undertemple and the Black Cyst (qq v). 

3 ) Secret door to Inset Area which cannot be noticed by 
casual inspection, even that of an elf. 

4) Spy holes as 1) above. 

5) Secretcloset containing 4 robes as in 2)above. Also here 
is a strange iron horn with a handle set on either side of 
its tube, 4 iron holders (torches when properly used), 
and an iron box. The horn is "Wailer for Tharizdun". Its 
horrible, deep tone seems to make the very walls of the 
place shake, but it actually activates magic which is seen 
in the Undertemple and the Black Cyst. It has no other 
use discernible to the party. The iron holders have cone- 
shaped depressions in their fluted upper ends. The box. 7. 
just as the one in closet 2) above, can only be opened by 
special means. It is larger than its fellow, and in it are 24 
cones of dull black material, whose rounded upper ends 
remind one of ice cream cones more than anything else. 

Each cone, set into a holder and set afire, will give off a 
pale, seemingly heatless radiance which sheds but faint 
light. This will change in the Undertemple and Black 
Cyst areas. The burning cone will stay alight for 1 hour. 

6) Secret door detectable only as noted for 3) above. 

7) Rotating secret door of mauve-colored stone. Here, the 
sections of the revolving wall secret door are obvious, 
but nonetheless, it will operate only when the individual 
stands on the west face of the section, facing east, 
pressing in and down with hand at shoulder height. It 
gives clockwise to area 3. 


8) Secret room approximately 20'. The place is quite bare 
and covered with a fine layer of dust. 

9) Shaft leading down approximately 5' square. There are 
heavy bronze rungs on the south wall of the room and on 
down the shaft. There are 333 of these rungs, leading 
down to a depth of 333' beneath the surface. This is the 
only entrance to the Undertemple. If care is not exercised 
in climbing up or down these rungs, there is a 10% 
chance per person so doing that one of these ancient 
bronze bars will snap or pull free. Such an occurence will 
plunge the character down from the spot of the breakage. 
Roll d6 to see if it occurs in the upper, middle, or lower 
third of the shaft, then roll percentile dice to determine 
distance in feet, adding 100 or 200 if appropriate. 

6. BROAD HALLWAY: This passage is 20' wide and nearly 
30' high. Its vaulted roof is polished so as to send back 
glints of light from below. Clearly discernible paintings 
of something unintelligible to the human eye and brain 
decorate the entire length of the hallway, from the first 
great column near the stairs to where it turns 80' further 
on. 

2 Norkers: AC 3; MV 9"; HD 1+2; h.p. 7, 5; #AT 2; 

D 1-3/1-6. 

When alerted by the guards at 1., or by any other leader 
type, these guards will move to the north and take station 
out of sight in the side passageway, ready to alert others 
or attack, as needed or directed. 

2 Annis: AC 0; MV 15" HD 7 +7; h.p. 46, 41; #AT 3; 
D 2-9/2-0/3-9; SA grapples if all attacks hit, attacks 
thereafter are automatic hits; SD skin like plate mail 
and edged weapons at -1 damage (blunt ones at +1). 

These two ghastly monsters serve the master of the 
place as cooks and maids. Unlike most of the other 
minions, however, they will not venture forth to attack, as 
they have no overwhelming desire to serve. Upon 
entering this area, the party will see them in a changed 
form, unless they surprise the annis. The two will take 
forms of human women of the dumpy sort, appearing 
large, strong, fat, and clad in apparel typical of kitchen 
slaves. Each will curtsey, smile, and ask if the party has 
come to rescue them from bondage in this kitchen 
prison, where they feared momentarily that they would 
be served as dinner rather than serving the giant dinner 
anyway. When they are within melee range (10' or so) 



15 


each will attack, choosing the most powerful-looking 
opponent as victim. (For details of this monster, see the 
section dealing with new monsters and treasures at the 
end of the module.) 

Furniture: A great trestle table stands in the center of the 
main part of the room. On it are various pots, bags of 
stuff, a basket of dried peas, and slabs of meat. A side 
board along the north wall holds similar stuff. While a 
quick search reveals nothing in the way of treasure, there 
is sufficient food here to feed a dozen hungry men for a 
fortnight. (There is actually more food than that, but 
much isn't such that a human would care to eat.) Crude 
shelves along the walls hold various large crocks, jars, 
etc. - obviously more kitchen gear. The furniture is 
crude and relatively new, so it was probably made 
recently for the new master of the place. 

Treasure: There is a large sugar bowl filled with 29 g.p. 
and 47 p.p. on one of the shelves, and this will be found if 
a careful search is made. A crock of cooking oil actually 
contains a potion of oil of slipperiness, but the latter has 
settled to the bottom of the crock. If the oil is poured out 
into a container where it can be seen, the fact that two 
sorts of oil are in the jug will be noted, but otherwise the 
magical stuff can only be detected by some special 
means. Neither annis has any other treasure. 

8. REFECTORY: This 50' by 20' hall was probably used for 
meals when the whole place was used as the house of 
worship of whatever deity it was built for. Although no 
tables remain, the kitchen to the north proves this was a 
dining hall. It has the polished black stone walls, floor, 
and ceiling typical of the whole lower level, although 
these walls have no strange coloration or decoration. 

1 Mountain Giant: AC 2 (cave-bearskin jack with iron 
plates attached, cave-bearskin leggings); MV 12"; HD 
12; h.p. 78; #AT 1; D 4-40; SA hurl rocks up to 20" for 
2-16 points of damage. 

This fellow is master of the upper and lower levels of the 
Temple, he is so tough that he will occasionally venture 
to the dungeons beneath! His name is Groorg the 
Cunning, and both his intelligence and wisdom are 
exceptional. Thus, he has organized and maintained a 
cohesive and powerful defense of his lair. In time of great 
trouble, he will send his strongest servants to attack 
invaders, retaining only his hill giant bodyguards on the 
lower level in case the foes should somehow manage to 
penetrate his defenses. 

If defeat should occur, Groorg and his bodyguards will 
retreat to the dungeons. The best of the treasure will go 
with them, of course. They will make a stand in the great 
cavern (area 24. of the Dungeon). If that appears hopeless, 
the plan is to fall back into area 26., run down the passage 
there, and escape into the wilderness of rocky ravines. 
As the passage is narrow and low for even a hill giant, one 
such creature can easily block it while the others 
escape.... 

Groorg knows nothing of the history of the Temple. He is 
totally unaware of its name. He is interested in food, fun, 
and treasure. All else is of small importance to a 
mountain giant, even one of exceptional mental ability. 

When a report of defeat reaches him, Groorg will 
abandon his quarters, stopping first to gather up three 
chests of treasure (area 11., chest #1, #2, and #3). He and 
the pair of hill giants will proceed to the dungeon, leaving 


instructions to the guards in area 14. to come below and 
warn him if any enemies are seen on the lower level. Until 
such foes are seen, the giants will remain in the relatively 
safe area at the base of the stairway to the dungeon (1. 
-4 ). Survivors of a defeat have been told that they too 
should seek refuge in the dungeon area, but they have 
been instructed to lurk just off the passages east and 
west at the entrance ... In extremity, Groorg and his 
bodyguards will then go to the cavern, ready their rock 
missiles, and wait. 

Furniture: A crude table and chairs of huge proportions 
indicate that giants of some sort use this place for a 
dining hall of their own. There is also a large-sized, 
crudely made bench. There are a number of boxes, 
crates, and barrels lining the north wall of the chamber. 
The several small fireplaces along the east wall show 
signs of having been used recently. There are many 
torch brackets along the walls, and all partially burned 
torches or stubs of them within. 


Treasure: There is no treasure here. The containers all 
hold various types of foodstuffs. The barrels have beer, 
wine, ale, mead - none of any real value, but more than 
sufficient to get the party drunk if they sample each 
barrel to determine the quality of contents. 

9. LIBRARY: although little remains to prove it, you suspect 
that the few broken shelves and moldering bits of leather 
and vellum indicate that this once was a small library. 
The sconces and torch brackets remaining on the walls 
indicate that books didn't occupy more than a fraction of 
the wall space. At most a thousand or so volumes could 
have been here. No one can guess what became of those 
works - even the torches have not been used in years, 
for cobwebs hang from them. 

2 Ogres: AC4 (leathercoats); MV9" HD4+1; h.p. 25,22; 
#AT 1; D 1-10; SA each carries a spear to hurl before 
closing to melee-D 3-8 (+2 strength bonus included). 

It is unlikely that these two creatures will be in their 
quarters, as during time of trouble, they will be alerted by 
the noise and venture forth to join the forces fighting 
above or in the hallway areas 1.-6. 

Furniture: There are two heaps of old cushions and cloth 
in the north end of the room. Two boxes with a plank 
form a table, with two nearby casks obviously serving as 
stools. There appears to be nothing of value in this room. 

Treasure: As usual, the boxes hold (bad) foodstuffs, one 
cask water, the other some sour beer. There is nothing of 
value here. 

10. SCRIPTORIUM: There is no doubt that this 10' by 30' 
room of polished black stone was at one time a 
scriptorium. There are an unusual number of sconces 
and torch brackets here, and there are even the remains 
of copying desks piled up in the southern portion of the 
place. 

Furniture: There are numerous boxes, sacks, barrels, 
crates, and bags all stuffed in here in a considerable state 
of disarray. From the look of them it appears as if they are 
supplies of food and drink. 

Treasure: None, as this place is simply a store room for 
the giant's personal table. There are 3 barrels of oil here 
and a jug of strong acid (40 ozs.). 


16 



11. GREATROOM: Thischamberisaslargeastherefectory 
- 50' long and 20' wide. It also has numerous small 
fireplaces along its east wall. While it is only possible to 
speculate, this hall might have been used for fetes or as a 
common room for a large number of persons. 

2 Dire Wolves: AC 6; MV 18"; HD 3 +3; h.p. 27.24. #AT 1; 
D2-8 - +2 for male, +1 for female, due to unusual size; 
SA double damage on any hit scored on a 20 due to 
jaw strength. 

These huge wolves stand nearly 4' tall at the shoulder, 
and are kept by Groorg as pets and guardians of his 
personal bedchamber. If anyone other than their master 
dares to enter, each will spring to attack. Because of their 
positioning, they will always surprise any opponent not 
aware that they are lurking within. Roll a d4 to find how 
many unanswered attacks each character receives due 
to this unexpected attack. (See also 12., below for 
monster information.) 

Furniture: There is a strange bed of enormous size. This 
odd construction of logs and planks occupies 20' of the 
west wall. Sconces are used as wall pegs and hold 
various giant-sized garments. Near the entrance is a 
crude table and a chair. Next is a large barrel, a small 
cask, and a crate. Against the far wall are (five or TWO) 
chests. Near them are a great club, several giant-sized 
spears, and a notched bastard sword which seems to 
have seen service as a dagger. 

Treasure: There is nothing of value in the bed. The 
garments are all normal sort. The table and chair hide 
nothing. The barrel holds mead, Groorg's favorite drink. 
The small cask holds plain water. The crate has various 
dried fruit and some sausages - bedtime snacks. The 
weapons are nothing special, save the bastard sword. It 
is a -2 cursed sword, thus discarded as a dagger by the 
wily giant. If it is tested, it will seem to be an excellent 
glowing magic blade. (Note that this weapon can be 
discarded if the wielder notices that it is a cursed 
weapon; but the sword exudes a confidence in battle 
which will make the holder unlikely to notice any unusual 
misses or light damage.) The chests contain: 

Chest #1: Carved amethyst chalice worth 5,000 g.p., 
gold flagon with gems worth 3,500 g.p., 3 pieces of 
miscellaneous jewelry, an ivory box with jeweled 
cover worth 2,000 g.p., a leather pouch with 21 base 10 
g.p. gems, and a crystal ball (worth 500 g.p.) wrapped 
in a bolt of silk. 

Chest #2: An ordinary statue of an onyx gargoyle 
(upon which some wag placed a Nystul s Magic Aura) 
worth 100 g.p., 2 giant weasel pelts worth 250 g.p. 
each, a small leather sack with 148 p.p., a tapestry 
valued at 275 g.p., and a carved pair of ivory tusks of 
small size (but fine work) worth 1,000 each. 

Chest #3: 4,300 g.p. 

Chest #4: 1,874 e.p. intermixed with 2,308 silver coins. 
There are also 3 10 pound bars of silver. 

Chest #5: 4,094 c.p., 17 1 pound copper bars, and 9 
small leather bags containing 50 bronze pieces each. 


12. SQUAREROOM: Whatthis place wasoriginally used for 
is beyond determination. The room is most unusual, 


having a floor of deep plum color, walls of violet-purple, 
and a mauve ceiling. Instead of sconces or torch brackets, 
there are candleholders of black metal. The small fire 
place on the south wall is of obsidian. 

2 Ogres: AC 3 (hide armor and shields); MV 9"; HD4 +1; 
h.p. 26, 23; #AT 1; D 1-10; SA each carries a spear to 
hurl before closing to melee - D 3-8 (+2 strength 
bonus included). 

These two monsters guard the passageway to the master's 
private area whenever he is in the Temple-always these 
days. They remain on station in times of trouble, awaiting 
the command of Groorg. He is likely to instruct them to 
lurk in their guardroom and not to leave that post until 
they are attacked themselves or hear fighting up the 
corridor. If the party enters area 11. the noise of the 
combat with the dire wolves will certainly bring both 
ogres to the attack. They will charge out of their lair, hurl 
their spears, and close to attack on the second round of 
combat with the wolves. That is, by the time the wolves 
are attacking for the second time, these two will be 
hurling their spears. When second round combat is 
finished, they will be in melee range. If they attack by 
surprise, they can then strike unanswered blows. 

Furniture: A large table of rude construction and a pair of 
barrels are the only furnishings in the place. A heap of 
torn clothing and old cloth appears to form a rude bed. 

Treasure: The ogres have nothing of value. The barrels 
hold food and water respectively. If a careful appraisal of 
the candleholders is made, it will be seen that they are 
made of solid silver, beautifully worked, and are worth no 
less than 100 g.p. each. Up to four will fit in a large sack. 

13. VIOLET ROOM: This 20'by 30'chamber is all of stone of 
a dull violet color. Its walls have no decoration, but its 
ceiling is domed. The floor has a hollow place, a regular 
oval some 10' long and about half as broad. This 
depression runs the length of the room, being in the 
center, directly under the arch of the dome above. The 
basin thus formed is sheer-sided for about 2', then 
curves smoothly to a depth of about 3' total. 

(This place was once the bathing chamber for the High 
Priest. Hidden beneath a stone floor slab are corroded 
valves which allow water to flow into the pool. One of the 
stones in the bottom of the depression is removable, and 
beneath it is a stoppered drain.) 

Furniture: There are a pair of corroded bronze braziers in 
the far corners of the room. The remains of some sort of 
high bench and two chairs are likewise there. All of 
these furnishings are rotted and broken. 

Treasure: This place has no treasure. The current inhab 
itants of the Temple dislike the room, feeling uneasy in it, 
so the place is shunned. 

14. COLUMNED HALLWAY: The 20' wide passage is 
screened by several thick pillars of shining black stone 
worked with figures of writhing forms-snakes, tentacles, 
people, worms? Who can say? It is certain that looking at 
them makes even the strongest man feel slightly weak 
and sick. These columns divide a north-south passage 
into two corridors of 10' width. They lead north to a broad 
opening into some unknown area and south into a 
passageway whose roof slopes slightly downward, as 
does its floor. In this latter place, there is some form of 
stone railing, with small pillars set floorto roof around it. 


17 




2 Norkers: AC3; MV 9"; HD 1 +2; h.p. 2x6; #AT 2; D1-3/1 -6 

These guards are stationed to relay information anywhere 
needed, and also to see that something nasty has not 
come up the stairs from the dungeon, overwhelmed the 
guards there, and become free to cause havoc amongst 
the servants of Groorg. In time of great need, these 
guards (along with all of the rest of the norkers and 
gnolls) will be sent above to fight off attackers. 

15. STAIRCASE DOWN: This stairway is of deep gray rock, 
as is the rest of this passage. Even the small pillars rising 
to the ceiling and the rail and posts of stone around the 
flight of steps are of the same material. A slight breeze 
wafts upwards from the place beneath. 

4 Gnolls: AC 4 (iron plates on coats); MV 9"; HD 2;h.p. 15, 
12,2*11; #AT 2 or 1; D 2 with great bows for 2-8,2 with 
glaive-guisarmes for 2-8. 

These are stair guards, continually watching for monsters 
to attempt to come up from below. Because of the nature 
of their duty, the archers have silver-headed and iron- 
tipped shafts in equal proportion (10 each). The iron 
headed pole arms of their companions are likewise 
chased with silver. I n time of extreme trouble, even these 
guards will be sent up to battle with invaders, Groorg 
himself moving down into the depths below. 


16. GREAT CHAPEL: This area appears to be a long- 
abandoned chapel or small temple, but in whose honor it 
is impossible to state. The whole is 40' wide and about 60' 
long, with the far (north) wall concave, the curve being 
smooth and shallow. Small, fluted columns of deep black 
stone line a 20' aisle, leaving a 10' wide space beyond on 
both east and west walls. Within the front 40' of the place, 
all stone is black. Beyond, where a stone rail rises 3' from 
the floor, and a curving step or dais rises 1 1 and meets the 
back wall, floors and walls are of deepest purple, al 
though the ceiling remains black. 

17. AISLE: The 10'wide area seems to have been well-used, 
for the floor is worn down, and the walls are likewise 
slightly dished by the touch of many bodies. If the walls 
are actually touched, the character will feel a tingling and 
his or her vision will go black for a fleeting moment, then 
sight will be restored. Tactile sense will discover that 
there are strange, indiscernable convolutions here which 
form mind pictures when touched. These impressions 
are pleasurable and unsettling at the same time. Any 
person failing to save versus magic after experiencing 
this sensation will attempt to return and feel the sensation 
once again. If this happens, that individual will auto 
matically experience the following things: 

1) (On a roll of a 1 or a 2 on d6) his or her vision in total 
darkness will seem normal, but, any light brighter than a 
hooded lantern will be disgusting to him or her, and he or 
she will immediately ask that it be extinguished or else he 
or she will go elsewhere. 

2) Strange desires will begin to flood the individual's 
mind during times of quiet. These desires will be 
unwholesome at first, then absolutely strange ... 

3) The name of Tharizdun will rise unbidden to the 
individual's lips whenever he or she is under stress 
and needs aid. 

All of these effects can be removed with a simple bless 
spell if accomplished within 3 days. Thereafter it will 
require combined prayer and remove curse to cleanse 
the effects of the dweomer. 

18. ALTAR RAIL: The square fore portion of the chapel is 
divided from the sacred portion by a railing of puce-hued 
stone. This railing is 3' high and intricately carved and 
pierced. This work is disgusting and disturbing in nature, 
being of vines and tendrils, tentacles and serpentine 
bodies intertwined with human forms and skeletons and 
other things unknowable. There is a 3' wide gateway in 
the exact center of the rail. (If any non-cleric touches the 
rail, they will feel ill and lose from 1-4 points of both 
strength and dexterity for 3 hours. A cleric doing the 
same must save versus death magic, a save indicating 
that he or she is affected only in the same manner as a 
non-cleric.) 

20. RAISED SECTION: This step or dais appears to be the 
place where an altar service might have been conducted. 
There is a low table of black mineral which has bits of 
shiny purple within its polished surface. (If this is 
touched by non-clerics, they will take from 1 -10 points of 
cold damage and otherwise be affected as if they 
touched the railing. Clerics must save versus magic to 
avoid death and suffer only the same effects as non 
clerics.) To either side are rotted and crumbling chairs of 
some sort. There are piles of rusted metal near the doors 
on the north wall. What devices or purposes these items 


18 


once served is impossible to tell. On the wall behind the 
altar stone there is an anomoly. The violet color of the 
stone seems to bear the indistinct shadow of a large, 
vaguely-human shape. But it is so obscure, and so 
uncertain in form, that it may be a trick of light playing 
upon the curving surface of stone. (Touching this area 
will be the same as touching the walls of the chapel twice. 
If the wall here is touched a second time, the individual 
so doing must save versus paralysis or fall into a morose 
dejection, refusing to fight or move. This will end in 
approximately 1 hour, and thereafter the individual will 
have an overwhelming desire to remain in the Temple and 
get to know its every aspect, certain that something is 
there which must be discovered. Bless, prayer, and 
remove curse are needed to rid the victim of this desire.) 

21. VESTRY: Although it is not certain, this place was 
probably the robing room for the clerics who once dwelt 
here and served their unknown deity. The rotted remains 
of several closets line the east wall, and there appear to 
be vestments of indeterminate stuff moldering away 
there also. There is but one door other than the one by 
which you entered, a heavy bronzewood door to the 
west. It, like the door into this chamber, has a corroded 
bronze bar to secure it from inside. (This place, like the 
whole of this small temple chapel, is shunned by the 
current inhabitants of the place.) 

Furniture: Other than the dilapidated closets, there are 
only two rotted chairs and a fallen table, one leg turned to 
powder. There are the usual wall sconces, but they have 
been unused for decades from the look of them. 

Treasure: Nothing of value was left behind here. (Seethe 
previous section, INSET AREA, for details of the secret 
door in the north wall.) 

22. SANCTUM: This room is similar to the others you have 
seen here, for it is all of black stone. However, there 
remain bits of rotten carpeting on the floor, and it 
appears that an arras or tapestry must have rotted and 
fallen from the west wall, for there is a moldy heap of 
something there. There is a door to the east and a door to 
the north in the curving wall. Both can be barred from 
inside, although the bronze bar is corroded and does not 
look very strong. 

Brown Mold: AC 9; MV 0", HD special: h.p. special: #AT 
0; D 0; SA drains 1 -8 points heat (equals frost damage 
to victim) for every 10 of body heat over 55 F. (4-32 
for characters) if within 5', growth of 5' occuring with 
such draining: SD killed only by magical cold. 

This small patch of brown mold makes the temperature 
in the sanctum slightly lower than elsewhere, but unless 
someone asks about the atmosphere or temperature in 
the chamber, the lower temperature will not be noticed. 
The mold is growing on the tapestry which has fallen 
from the west wall. 

Furniture: There are several decayed chairs scattered 
here and there. A rotting divan lies in a heap next to the 
east door. Several low stools surround a place on the 
floor where lilac-colored stones have been inset to form 
a two-tiered pyramid. Near these stools is a low wooden 
table with a great mound of dust on it. 

Treasure: The only treasure in the room is resting on the 
table near the stools. This, in turn, is within 5' of the 
brown mold. The dust covers a small box of jet. In this 


box remain several (2-5) small black beads, each about 
three-quarters of an inch in diameter. Examination will 
reveal that these are neither stone nor pearl. They radiate 
a faint dweomer. evocation magic for certain. These are 
beads of force which can be hurled up to 3" by the 
possessor. (For details of their effects, see the section at 
the end of the module which deals with new magic 
items.) 

23. LARGE ANTECHAMBER: This chamber is approximately 
40' square, with walls, ceiling, and floor of polished 
obsidian - or obsidian-like stone, for the material is not 
normal. The stone contains thin lines of purple - plum, 
lilac, violet - every imaginable shade of that color. 
These veins resemble worms or tendrils, and when seen 
out of the corner of the eye there seems to be a writhing 
movement going on. When the eye is directed squarely at 
the surface, it appears quite normal, if a bit disturbing. 
There is a lone door to the east in the northernmost 
portion of the wall. 

1 Giant Troll: AC 2 (leather and iron skirted jack); MV 1 2"; 
HD 8; h.p. 54; #AT 1 (or 2); D 2-16 (or 2-7/2-7J all +2 
due to size and strength (4-18 or4-9/4-9); SA may opt 
to hurl club: SD regenerate 2 points per melee round 3 
turns after being damaged. 

This huge specimen will rouse the inhabitants of area 24. 
when the alarm is raised, herding them up into the fray. If 
he believes the situation is not serious, he will hurl his 
huge club at an opponent (4-18 points damage) and then 
rush into hand-to-hand combat, taking on one or two 
opponents at once as opportunity presents. If he thinks a 
major attack is taking place, he will bring a barrel of oil to 
hurl first, followed by a torch. The barrel holds 100 flasks 
of oil. Under his armor this giant troll, Umbog by name, 
wears his treasure - a belt (worn as a necklace) set with 
gold and gems worth 6,000 g.p. (10 base 50 g.p. gems, 10 
base 100 g.p. gems. 2 base 500 g.p. gems, and 1 base 
1,000 g.p. gem - no increase in value possible if belt 
damaged.) 

Furniture: Who knows what splendor once reposed in 
this chamber. It now reeks of troll-strench, and the 
furnishings indicate that whatever made a lair here was 
far from delicate. There is a vast heap of sticks, leaves, 
rags, clothing, pillows, and so forth in the southwest 
corner of the room. Stacked crates and planks on the 
west wall form some sort of table. There is a heap of 
wood - old furniture, broken boxes, tree limbs, and the 
like - piled against the north wall beside the fireplace. 
Near the door are several thick spears of about 8' length, 
crude weapons fit for use by a hill giant or ogre. It 
appears that the torch brackets and wall sconces have 
been torn from the walls. There are piled torches near the 
entrance. 

Treasure: The major treasure of the giant troll is worn by 
him; but, under the firewood is another bit of loot, a large 
sack containing 14 p.p., 297 g.p., 76 e.p., and 190 s.p. 
There is nothing else of value. 

24. AMETHYST CHAMBER: The floor and ceiling of this 20' 
by 30' room are of translucent stone the color of 
amethyst. It is certainly not that mineral, but the effect is 
striking nonetheless. The polished black walls repeat the 
lilac gleams of light reflected off the floor and arched 
ceiling. Even though the room is striking, there is a 
feeling of unease here, as if you are intruding in a place 
not yours. 


19 



2 Trolls: AC 4; MV12"; HD 6+6; h.p. 39, 31; #AT 3; 
D 5-8/5-8/2-12; SA fight up to 3 different opponents 
in any round; SD regenerate 3 points/round three 
rounds after taking damage. 

When alerted by the giant troll, this pair will immediately 
rush to the defense of the Temple's upper level. 


Furniture: The smell of troll is strong, and the furnishings 
in the room indicate it is now a trolls' lair. Two noisome 
heaps of material on the east wall evidently form nests for 
a pair of these monsters. There are a couple of barrels 
and three boxes scattered in the center of the place. 
There are cressets set in the walls, but they have not been 
used for many years. 

Treasure: The troll nests are just heaps of smelly rags 
and such. The barrels hold water and vinegary wine 
respectively; (but there are 3 potion bottles in the water 
barrel, detectable only if the water is poured out and if 
the barrel is tipped over, there is a 5 in 6 chance these 
potions will be broken in the process. The potions are: 
Extra-Healing, Healing, and Superheroism.) The crates 
hold food of unwholesome sort, but there is also a bag of 
500 g.p. in the third box. 


25. PRIEST'S CHAMBER: This 20'by 10" room was probably 
the bedchamber of a lesser priest, for its black walls are 
decorated with the mauve reversed pyramid. A raised 
block of stone, some 2' high, 5' wide, and 10' long spans 
the room's east wall from north to south - evidently a 
base for the inhabitant's bed. There are sconces on the 
wall except where this block rises. 

4 Norkers: AC 3; MV 9"; HD 1+2; h.p. 9. 8. 7, 6; ffAT 2; 
D1-3/1-6. 

Treasure: One of the stones under a box is loose, and the 
norkers have used it to hide their loot: 16 g.p., 11 e.p., and 
49 s.p. If anyone looks at this section of floor they will 
certainly see it has been pried up. 

26. PRIEST'S CHAMBER: (Same as 25., above, only raised 
portion is along the west wall.) 

4 Norkers: (As 25., above.) 

Furniture: (As 25., above, only several small sacks tied 
shut as well.) 

Treasure: This group of norkers has 8 p.p., 4 g.p., 11 e.p., 
17 s.p., and 62 e.p. hidden in various portions of their 
sleeping place. The kegs and boxes contain food and 
odds and ends of junk. One sack holds goblin and gnome 
skulls. The other is stuffed with dried grass and an asp: 
AC6; MV 15"; HD 1 -2; h.p. 3; #AT 1; D 0; SA poison (save 
at -2), very fast and strikes rapidly so surprises on 1 -4 and 
gets +2 on initiative die. The snake was to be used for a 
"joke" on the giant troll when opportunity presented ... 


27. LONG PASSAGEWAY: This passageway of black stone 
is lined with doors, 9 of them in fact. From the look of 
them they are probably the entrances to the cells in 
which the lesser clerics of this place lived. 

1 Ogre: AC 4 (leather coat); MV 9"; HD 4 +1; h.p. 24; #AT1; 
D 1-10. 


This creature serves as a guard, for there are prisoners in 
the cells along the west wall. His fellow guard (also 27.) 
faces him. These fellows do not leave their posts in time 
of trouble; but they remain to defend the area, lurking out 
of sight around the nearby corner so as to surprise any 
intruder venturing west from hall 6. Neither is very 
bright. 

CELLS A. -1.: Each of these cells, save the first and the 
last, is exactly the same. Each room is about 9' square 
and has a raised stone block along the west wall - a sort 
of combination bed and sitting ledge for the long- 
vanished clerics of Tharizdun. Each now contains a mess 
of old rags and leaves and the like to make the ledge 
more comfortable for sleeping. There are various small 
boxes, kegs, and sacks in each room, for each houses 
several norkers - all on duty now - unless the worst has 
happened. There will be 2-12 each of the following coins 
hidden somewhere in each cell: electrum pieces, silver 
pieces, copper pieces, bronze pieces. 

3 Norkers: AC 3; MV 9"; HD 1 +2; h.p. 7, 6, 5; #AT 2; 
D1-3/1-6; SA oil kegs (see below). 

These special guards will be alerted if the Temple's 
upper level is under heavy attack. Each of the 7 sets of 3 
has a keg of oil equal in volume to 10 flasks. A pair carries 
the oil in a sling to the upper level. The third has a 
smoldering torch ready to fan into flame. At the point of 
attack, these barrels will either be hurled upon the 
attackers, rolled at them, or whatever, with the torch 
pitched on to ignite the oil. The norkers then join in the 
melee. (For overall details of battle plans, see "ORDER 
OF APPEARANCE" under THE FORGOTTEN TEMPLE 
OF THARIZDUN, DM Notes, preceeding this section.) 

CELL A.: This room contains a pair of trussed up hu 
mans, Kettites from a patrol ambushed some few days 
ago and brought here. Both are normal men-at-arms, 
but one is of a noble family who will give rescuers a 
note stating that they have safe conduct through all 
Ket due to favors rendered to the Family Aldeen, if he 
is freed and given pen and parchment. Both are weak 
and beaten, so they will need several days of rest and 
care before they can journey back to their homeland. 

CELL I.: This cell holds a chained mountain dwarf (fighter 
thief; L 9/10; h.p. 58 (now 22); SA and SD as for race and 
classes) captured attempting to sneak into the Temple. 
This fellow is Lawful Neutral, and he is quite anxious to 
gain a bit of treasure for his trouble - here and during 
the course of his adventuring to get to the area. Naturally, 
he has no armor or weapons, so he will attempt to beg off 
actual fighting, stating a desire to come along as an 
observer only to learn how real heroes operate. He is also 
obviously somewhat damaged, all the more reason to 
hang back and watch. If pressed, he will admit to being a 
fighter of some skill, a champion amongst his kind. He 
will give his name as "Teldroll Storis". He will NOT make 
any covenant with the party which will prevent him from 
stealing a choice bit of loot and then heading for high 
ground. His armor and weapons are in room 30., but he 
will not admit to the leather armor being his when he sees 
there is dwarven chain there also. 


28. SMALLROOM: The black walls, ceiling, and floor of this 
20' square room make it seem smaller than it is. It may 
have served as anything, for nothing about it is notable 
enough to provide a clue. 


20 



(This is the barracks room for the various norkers on 
guard duty at this time.) 

Furniture: There are piles of cloth and like stuff scattered 
all over the room. There are about a dozen small boxes 
and barrels likewise broadcast throughout the place. 
The four cressets on the walls seem to have been used 
recently. 

Treasure: There will be a scattering of coins hidden here 
and there thoughout the room, 3-18 of each, gold to 
bronze. Each turn of searching will discover 1-6 of each 
sort until three turns are thus expended. There is nothing 
else of value in the place. 


29. PURPLE-DOMED CHAMBER: This 20' by 30' room has 
a vaulted ceiling of dark purple. It is otherwise unremark 
able in appearance, and its original purpose can only be 
guessed at - perhaps the domicile or study of some 
greater cleric. 

4 Ogres: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4 +1; h.p. 23,21,18,17;#AT 1; 

D 1-10. 

These fellows are recent recruits, but they are stupid and 
quite willing to fight in any sort of battle. Thus, when they 
are called to fight, they will gladly rush to the floor above 
to have at it. Each has from 20-80 gold pieces stored with 
their gear, and they will leave this behind in heat of 
anticipated battle. 

Furniture: Again, the heaps of stuff here seem to form 
nests or bedding - six such places in all. A large bonfire 
was recently built in the center of the floor and boxes 
remain around it. Near each nest is a large sack. 

Treasure: Four of the six sacks hold 20-80 g.p. each. The 
other two have nothing worthwhile. The boxes hold 
food stuffs. Under some old clothing in the corner is a 
small keg of brandy worth 200 g.p.; the other two ogres 
who sleep here brought this with their coins. (The brandy 
will burn as hot as any oil if it is set aflame, although it will 
last only half as long in burning.) 


30. CLOTH-DRAPED ROOM: This 20'square room of black 
stone is strange indeed! Its walls and floor are covered 
with yards of cheap, red cloth. As the wall sconces and 
torch brackets were used to hold the cloth along the 
walls, its badly-hung folds reach only about 7' up the 
walls. It looks as if someone went mad and tossed several 
rolls of scarlet and crimson material round the room, 
then having a change of heart, dicided to straighten out 
the mess rather than do away with it. 

1 Norker Witchdoctor AC 2 (+1 ring of protection): MV12" 
(dexterity and size): HD 3+2; h.p. 21; cleric level 5, 
magic-user level 2; #AT 2; D 3-5/3-10 (+2 strength and 
size, weapon is scimitar); SA spells; SD ring of 
protection. 

SPELLS 

1st Level 2nd Level 3rd Level 


Cure Lt. Wounds Resist Fire Dispel Magic 

Darkness Resist Fire (Gust Of Wind - 

Prot. From Good Resist Fire On Scroll) 

Affect Normal 
Fires 
Push 


2 Norker Guards: AC 3; MV 9"; HD 2; h.p. 14.13; #AT 2; 

D 2-4/3-9 (+1 strength, weapon is morning star). 

The witchdoctor is commander of the norkers and the 
gnolls, placed in charge by Groorg himself so as to 
assure maximum co-operation from these humanoids. 
Although the gnolls aren't happy with the situation, they 
fear the power of this norker spell caster sufficiently to 
obey fairly readily. It is he who had decorated his den in 
his favorite color. When the norkers in the cells go into 
battle, the witchdoctor will follow to see that all goes 
well. His two guards will shield him for as long as they 
live, keeping him free to cast spells. 



First spells cast will often be resist fire, on himself and 
either his guards or a powerful figure key to success. The 
cure will always be kept for himself, as will the protection. 
Other spells are cast as the situation dictates. 

Furniture: There is an old couch in the room. It too is 
covered with swatches of red cloth. Two heaps of brown 
cloth appear to be less "august" beds. A crudely-made 
table, bench, and a rickety chair occupy the south wall. 
There are 4 kegs, 3 boxes, and a bag in the northeast 
corner of the room. A small brazier stands in the middle 
of the place, a large chest nearby. 

Treasure: There is nothing in or under the couch. The 
two heaps of bedding contain 3-30 each, platinum and 
gold pieces. The table has a hollowed out leg in which 
the witchdoctor has hidden 19 base 10 g.p. gems. The 
kegs, etal, contain various sorts of food and drink, and a 
supply of odds and ends of "witchdoctor" material: a 
human-looking mask, a rattle, and colored powders, 11 
types in all, one being dust of appearance. 

The witchdoctor has a particular hatred of mountain 
dwarves, coming from a tribe where continual warfare 
between norkers and these demi-humans wiped out all 
but a few of his folk. In the chest are: a dwarven-skull 
drinking cup decorated with gold, a string of dwarven 
ears, cloth woven from the fine beards of female dwarves, 
a +2 dagger of like sort, a +1 suit of dwarven leather 
armor, a suit of dwarf-sized elfin chainmail, and various 
odds and ends of apparel and accouterments (some 
taken from the prisoner in cell I. of course). The lid of the 
chest has a large drawer. In it are various helmets and 
mail coifs taken from slain mountain dwarf enemies. 
There are 11 in all. 


21 



31. CHECKERED HALL: This 40' by 20' hall has a floor of 
alternating purple and black stone, each block being 
some 2V4' square. There are many sconces and torch 
brackets along the purple stone walls, evidencing that 
the place was once well-lighted by flambeaux and 
candles. The ceiling is of dull black rock. 

4 Ogres: AC 3 (Studded coats) MV 9"; HD 4 +1; h.p. 29,27, 
25, 24; #AT 1; D 1-10; SA missile hurling, 6" range. 

This quartet of brutes have a special berth because of the 
skill which has been taught to them by the hill giant 
body guards of Groorg. Having come about a year ago 
to the summons of the mountain giant, they were so large 
and strong that their master decided that they could 
serve special duty. In a few months they had learned how 
to grasp a missile, and then it was only a matter of weeks 
before they could actually throw it! Now they can toss 
smaller rocks (for 1-10 points of damage) or kegs full of 
oil with considerable skill. In time of trouble, these four 
will be called forth by the nearby ogre guard; and they 
will hurry to join the fight above, following on the heels of 
the norkers carrying the kegs of oil they are to toss at 
enemies. Each has a firepot to hurl to ignite oil. 

Furniture: It is surprising to note that the usual piles of 
bedding material are thicker here than most of the other 
places you have viewed. Although the place is large, only 
four such heaps are here, all along the south wall. There 
are four upended tuns here and a huge table, a real table 
made taller by setting it on boxes. There is also an iron 
chest against the west wall, which has a huge padlock 
securing it. The fireplace on the south wall has been used 
often - and never cleaned. A few sticks and logs are 
tossed near it. Several bags and boxes rest near the table. 

Treasure: There is nothing in the bedding heaps. The 
tuns hold beer, beer, water, ale. The four boxes supporting 
the table hold 500 g.p., 25 p.p. and 7 base 50 g.p. gems, a 
+1 dagger wrapped in +1 elf-sized cloak of protection, a 
suit of elf-sized elfin chainmail, and a large pouch (with a 
silver tube containing a scroll of protection from magic in 
it. The locked iron chest has a sack of 200 s.p. and 3,622 
c.p. in it, while a hidden compartment in its top holds a ring 
of invisibility and weakness (as soon as one uses the 
magic of the ring, its dweomer causes weakness which 
lasts for 2-8 segments after becoming visible). The ashes 
of the fireplace hide nothing, nor does the chimney, but a 
pot nearby does hold some excellent broth. There is a 
"critter" living under the heap of firewood: 

1 Huge Spider AC 5 (speed); MV 18"; HD 2+2; h.p. 6 
(small for its kind); #AT 1; D 1-3 (small jaws); SA 
poison (but save at +2); surprises on 1-5 in 6, leaps 20' 
to attack. 

If the pile is moved or disturbed in any way, this creature 
will feel threatened and jump upon the nearest handy 
victim, sinking in his fangs whenever possible. 

32: LILAC AND BLACK ROOM: The walls of this room are 
clad in alternating stone blocks so as to stripe the walls at 
2' widths, pale violet and jet. This 20' square chamber has 
a door on the west and north as well, and from its position 
on the level it was possibly part of a suite of rooms for a 
high cleric or for use by guests - who knows? 

8 Gnolls: AC 4 (iron plates on coats); MV 9" HD 2; h.p. 
2*15, 2*12, 4*11; #AT 2 or 1; D 4 with great bows for 
2-8; 4 with glaive-guisarmes for 2-8. 

Off-duty stair guards, these gnolls are armed exactly as 
those on duty (at 15.). When an alert is sounded, these 
eight humanoids will join their four companions so as to 
form a unit of six archers protected by as many pole 
arms. 


DUNGEON LEVEL 


Notes for the Dungeon Master The dungeon is all of black 
stone, basalt. The 20' wide passages and attendant chambers 
are well-done, with the surfaces polished and the floor smooth. 
The columns and supports are fluted and worked in bas relief. 
The ceiling is arched to about 30'. The side passages and 
chambers are only about 15' and 20' high respectively, unless 
noted otherwise. The walls are roughly hewn, and the floors 
smoothed only by the passage of many feet. The cavern at the 
far end is natural, and bats using it have tended to move south 
into the worked area as well. The party will note bat droppings 
and hear their fluttering and squeaking whenever they listen, 
but these bats will not be a problem to them. 

Descending the Stairs (READ TO PLAYERS): You move 
cautiously down the worn steps of dark gray stone. The flight 
continues straight for some distance. You count over 100 steps 
before you notice that the walls are again of black rock, 
polished basalt. Another 20' or so and you are standing in a 
large chamber, all of ebon-hued rock, save a great square 
column of darkest purple in the center of the area. 

This appears to be some sort of formal processional way. 
There are 20' wide passages leading east and west, another 
north, the latter having several pillars down the center. This 40' 
square chamber is high-vaulted, for the central column mass 
rises about 40' to meet the ceiling above in arches of stone. 
There are two doors giving onto this place, one on either side 
of the north passageway leading from the chamber. What 
catches your attention, however, is the purple column. It bears 
some sort of statue, in a niche, as it is of deepest black. 

1. BLACK IDOL:This stone figure is about 10' tall. It is 
man-shaped and depicted wearing armor of strange 
design. The plates are fluted, runneled, and winged. The 
mail showing beneath is triangular. Some form of cape 
drapes the shoulders, scalloped edges hanging to the 
figure's knees. The hands clasp a huge, wavy-edged 
sword. The helm, like the armor, bears many strange 
projections and spiky ridges. Oddest of all, its helmet 
face shows no openings. 

(This figure is adamantine-hard and radiates a strong 
dweomer. It seems protected by a field of force; blows, 
fire, magic of any sort seem to leave it. and the column it 
is a virtual part of, undisturbed, unharmed. It can not be 
moved or pried from its niche, or otherwise affected. All 
this holds true for the other three statues as well.) 

2. GREEN IDOL: On the east face of the square column is 
another 10" tall figure; but instead of black stone, this idol 
is of deep, dark green. The form appears swathed in a 
flowing gown from feet to neck, but it is obviously male 
(if human at all) because of its broad chest and shoulders. 
The long sleeves of the garment cover the hands. A high 
collar stands from cheek to cheek, and a tight cap covers 
the head. What is obviously a mask covers the face, for 
what reason is unknown. The mask, however, is craggy 
and seamed, imitating an old man perhaps. A staff leans 
against the right shoulder. 

3. RED IDOL:This statue on the north face of the column is 
of intense carmine shade, dark but somehow intensely 
red nonetheless. The apparel depicted is: high boots and 
hose, doublet-like garment, and gauntlets. All of these 
items seem foreign in make, familiar but strange. The 
head is covered by a long hood, drawn tight round the 


22 



face so as to show only an indefinable oval. An axe-like 
weapon with shortish handle, long blade with many 
angles, and top spike is set butt upwards before the idol, 
the gauntleted hands of the 10' high figure resting easily 
atop the haft. 

4. BLUE IDOL: On the west face of the pillar is yet another 
huge statue, 10' tall, all of deep indigo hue. The form is 
robed in a many-pleated garment. The girdle depicted is 
ornately carved with signs and sigils which are unknown 
to any of you (and even a read magic will not reveal their 
exact meaning, although the gist is that the deepest 
secrets of all are known to this one). A broad cowl covers 
the head and projects well beyond the face, so that it is 
hidden in shadow. Illumination reveals only blank, blue 
stone. The arms of the idol are held across the body to 
meet just below the chest, the folds of robe hiding all, 
even the hands; but where they must meet projects a 
strange device, possibly a sceptre with a convoluted end 
and many filigreed sections. 

5. Only if the great iron horn(Lower Level,INSET AREA) is 
in the possession of the party will they reveal the 
"wonders" of this four-part idol. One blast of the horn will 
cause all four figures (and the entire pillar) to shimmer, 
turn first translucent, then transparent, then seemingly 
disappear altogether to reveal a vaguely human-shaped 
figure about 12' tall draped in purple, standing where the 
column and idols were. This form will do nothing for a 
segment, then a hollow, sepulchral voice will boom out, 
"What aspect of Eternal THARIZDUN would you see?!" 

If no answer is forthcoming from the party in a segment 
or so, the voice will speak again: "Trouble not the Mighty 
again until your mind is fit to comprehend Greatness! 
GO BACK! Meditate and follow what instructions are 
given to you by those wiser than you." With that, the 
figure will seem to be enveloped in black smoke; and, 
an instant later, the column and idols will reappear. 

If an answer resembling any of the following is given, a 
more positive scene will occur. Key answer words are: 

STRENGTH, PROWESS, MIGHT, INVINCIBLE-black 
aspect 

WISDOM. SKILL, CRAFT, GLORY, LEADERSHIP 
- green aspect 

DEATH, ANGER. REVENGE, HATRED, SLAYING 

- red aspect 

KNOWLEDGE, SECRET, HIDDEN, MAGIC 

- blue aspect 

When such a word occurs in the answer, the first so 
spoken will trigger the scene above, wherein the purple- 
swathed figure appears and speaks thus: "NOW BEHOLD 

THE-(fill in the correct color) FACE OF ETERNAL 

THARIZDUN!"VJ\tb that, the figure vanishes in a flash of 
mauve fire, purple smoke shoots upwards, disappears, 
and before the viewers there stands the 10' tall figure of 
appropriate color. It grows before the eyes from a mere 
10' giant to a 20' colossus. Then it speaks: 

"MY COUNTENANCE IS TURNED UPON THOU, MOR 
TAL. BE GLAD I KNOW THOU ART TOO PUNY TO 
BEHOLD IT. TO OBTAIN THE (STRENGTH/WISDOM/ 
DEATH/KNOWLEDGE - fill in the correct one) THOU 
SEEKEST, YOU MUST FIRST DO THAT WHICH IS BID. 
LET IT BE KNOWN TO YOU, THEN SHALL THOU BE 
FAVORED!" 

With that, the sequence returning the column to its 
original form commences. 


If the answer does not fit either case, then the pillar will 
go through its transformation, but a four-part form will 
eventually be revealed, a form with four bodies, four 
heads, four colors. A four-toned voice will boom out: 

''THARIZDUN IS NOT TO BE MOCKED! THARIZDUN 
BROOKS NO DISHONOR! FOOLISH UNBELIEVERS, 
BEAR NOW THE CURSE OF IMPENDING DOOM!" 

Tentacles of colored light spring forth from the quadrate 
figure as it rotates to present first one aspect, then 
another to the viewers. One tendril of each color touches 
each individual, and as each lashing beam undulates and 
strikes, each feels a tiny tingling of weakness (black), 
confusion (green), fear (red), and feeblemindedness 
(blue). Then, the four-toned voice speaks again, the 
pillar now returning to its former state: "SEEK FORGIVE 
NESS BY FAITHFUL SERVICE, OR THE DOOM WHICH 
BRUSHED YOU WILL RETURN TENFOLD!" 

The whole thing is nothing more than a complex Per 
manent Programmed Illusion of unusually powerful 
nature and clever work. Any player character not voicing 
strong disbelief will feel all four effects of the "Doom" 
anytime he participates in or witnesses any act which 
denegrates Tharizdun, his "property", or those who 
serve him. Only vocal disbelief and a successful saving 
throw versus magic will enable players to dispel the 
effects which will grow progressively until the individual 
is actually driven insane by the combination of the four 
sensations. 

6. STOREROOM:The door hinges are greased, and the bar 
on the outside indicates that the area beyond is used 
-for what you are about to find out. Inside, it is obvious 
that the area is, in fact, nothing but a storage chamber. 
There are large barrels of salted meat, wine, and beer. 
There are also numbers of sacks and a few large boxes 
piled near the door. 

Treasure: Everything here is either unfit for human 
consumption or merely bad-tasting. The boxes and 
sacks have nuts, meal, and like stuff all showing evidence 
of molestation - rats at least. Examination of the walls 
will show evidence of tunnels of large and small rats. 

7. JUMBLED ROOM: Like the others hereabouts.the hinges 
and metal of the door show signs of care. Inside is a 
jumbled mess of kegs, bags, boxes, and so on. All show 
signs of gnawing, spillage, and general despoiling - rats 
and who knows what else. It is obvious that there is 
nothing of value here, but there is a door in the eastern 
most portion of the south wall. The mess on the floor 
near there shows small, human-like footprints. 

Treasure: There is absolutely nothing of value in the 
room. 

8. SQUARE ROOM: Like the other rooms you have seen 
thus far. this chamber is of basalt, well-worked and 
polished. It, as the others, probably served some other 
purpose than a storeroom for humanoid supplies at one 
time. This place is also a mess, the contents of its barrels, 
sacks, and crates spilled, scattered, and fouled. Atop one 
crate sit 2 small humanoids - possibly goblin imps, for 
they are too small to be mature goblins, and they are 
totally unarmed. Each has a small snare, one with a 
still-kicking rat in it. 

2 Boggarts: AC -6; MV 18"; HD 6; h.p. 31. 28, 27; #AT 1; 

D 2-12; SA10' energy bolt every other round; confusion 


23 



spell by noise; SD invisibility, spell immunity, 
movement through solid objects. (See end of module 
form more information on this monster.) 

Upon entry of the party, these boggarts will feign fear and 
surprise. They will clutch each other, whine, and one will speak 
in the common tongue stating that if the party will spare them 
they will give the humans their delicious rat! This should 
suffice to get a conversation going, where the party is seeking 
information as to who these goblins are, where they come 
from, and what else is to be found on the level. As soon as the 
party is well inside the room, the "goblins" backing into the far 
corner in "fear", these monsters will begin their attack. The 
three of them will begin to shout, bang on boxes and barrels, 
pound metal on the walls, etc. If they can keep this up for 2 
rounds, then the party must save versus magic or be confused. 
As there are three boggarts, each character must save at -2 on 
the die. 

Regardless of the outcome of the confusion spell, these 
monsters will attack by casting electrical bolts on the third 
round. Each will pick the character closest to him. Next round 
they will change to halfling form, cry out to be saved, and leap 
as if to hug the characters in joy, fear, or whatever. Of course, 
this is an attack by a monster of 6 hit dice, and success 
indicates 2-12 points of damage on the victim. On the next 
round the boggarts will again cast bolts, or touch, depending 
on the circumstances. They will take will-o-wisp form only to 
escape by passing through the south wall. They will become 
invisible only to complete their escape west, then north up the 
wide corridor. 

Treasure: These monsters have only recently entered the 
dungeon from outside, working their way here because 
of the easy prey of rats to catch and devour. However, 
they have recently slain an ogre, and his bones are under 
the litter in the northwest corner of the room. With them 
is a +2 battle axe this creature thought guaranteed his 
safety. 

9. STOREROOM:This place is filled with broken furniture 
and pieces of wood - limbs, logs, branches, sticks-all 
in a heap. The whole room is filled with this mess. It 
seems likely that the place is used to store firewood for 
the inhabitants above. 

Treasure: There is nothing in the room, but if 6 turns are 
spent moving wood out of the place, the party will be able 
to see the door to the south and enter the room beyond. 

10. EMPTY ROOM: This 20'square chamber has evidently 
not been used for years. There is dust covering its floor 
-but wait! A set of footprints runs from the southeast 
corner to the west wall. The tracks are small, broad, 
human-like. They start about V from the wall and end 
against the west surface. 

Treasure: The room is empty. A boggart passed through 
the wall, took halfling-like form and walked to the 
opposite wall to see what was there. Again taking will-o- 
wisp form the creature found it was unable to go through 
the west surface and so floated south and out. 

11. STOREROOM: The greased hinges of the great door 
and the heavy bar indicated that there was recent usage 
of this portal. Upon opening it, you have discovered a 
largish storage chamber filled with many barrels, crates, 
boxes, bales, and quite a number of crude weapons as 
well as some well-made ones. There is evidence of 
vermin here - gnawing, spillage, droppings-certainly 
rats. 


Treasure: The food and drink stored here is not fit for 
human comsumption, although quite palatable for hu 
manoids such as norkers, gnolls and the like. The crude 
weapons are clubs, morning stars, spears, and the like 
favored by norkers and ogres. The materials are from 
raids upon various settlements and caravans. The wea 
pons are those taken from patrols. There are only normal 
items here, although the party may find some of use. 
There will be several composite short bows, several 
score arows, several light crossbows, about 100 bolts for 
them, a dozen spears, a few scimitars, and 1 -4 other hand 
weapons typical of the area. 

12. ROUGH-HEWN CHAMBER: This place appears to be 
about 30' wide and 50' long. There are heaps of rubbish 
and bones thrown into it. The place is evidently used as a 
garbage room by the inhabitants above. You see a few 
giant rats scuttle away into tunnels in the wall as your 
light shines over the nasty-smelling mess. 

2 Otyugh: AC 3; MV 6"; HD 8. 6; h.p. 42. 34; #AT 3; 

D 1-8/1-8/2-5; SA disease; SD never surprised. 

This is a mated pair, growing fat and ready to spawn on 
the magnificent fare delivered to them from above on a 
weekly basis by a strong "garbage and refuse detail" 
from above. They will not attack unless a creature comes 
near, for they are well-fed and content with things. 

Treasure: To search this mess will take hours, be 
exhausting, and the filth is prone to cause disease. There 
is absolutely no treasure here. 

13. EMPTY CHAMBER: This 30' square chamber was hewn 
from living rock many ages ago, and it has not seen use 
for decades from the look of it. There is evidence of fairly 
recent examination of the place, tracks in the dust and 
dirt from ogres and larger creatures, possibly giants. 

Treasure: There is nothing in this place, as the mountain 
giant and his henchmen discovered some months ago. 

READ BEFORE PARTY ENTERS AREA - ENTRANCE IS 

DISGUISED BY MONSTER! 

14. EMPTY CHAMBER: This place contains nothing save a 
few bones - norker from the look of them. It has not 
been used for generations, and other than a 10' wide 
clear spot leading to the bones, there is thick dust 
everywhere. 

1 Stunjelly: AC 8; MV 3": HD 4; h.p. 23; #AT1; D2-8; 

SA paralyzation. 

This monster lurks in the passageway making it appear 
that there is no corridor north. It will NOT attack unless a 
lone individual brings up the rear of the party, or a single 
individual passes. It will then strike without hesitation. If 
paralysis succeeds, the victim will make no sound at all, 
the 'jelly will drag the body into itself, and there will be no 
trace of what occurred except a vague, character-like 
shadow "on" the wall. The victim will automatically take 8 
points damage per round inside the 'jelly, and when -1 or 
lower is reached, digestion has begun. As norkers have 
been the regular fare of this monster, it has no treasure. 

Treasure: The chamber is bare and dirty. It holds nothing 
of value. 

15. OVAL POOL: The oddly-shaped chamber you see has 
an oval pool some 30' across and about 20' broad. The 


24 



light glints on its surface; no telling how deep it is or what 
might lurk within. The floor is about 2' above the surface 
of the water, and there is a walkway around it some 12' or 
more wide near the entrance, narrowing to but 4' or so 
along the back side of the pool. There appears to be no 
egress from this chamber save the passage you stand in. 

1 Grell: AC 4; MV 12"; HD5; h.p. 34; #AT 11; D 10*1 -4/1 -6; 
SA tentacle hit causes paralyzation; SD immune to 
electrical attack, paralysis. 

This clever monster is lurking Just above the arched 
entrance to the pool chamber. The ceiling in the room is 
fully 25', and the Roman arch of the entrance is but 15' 
high. Unless the first person entering looks up, the grell 
will always attack by surprise. If possible, it will wait until 

3 victims are inside the room, then drop. The trio will 
each be lashed at by 3 tentacles, with a backwards lash 
with the 1 remaining "just in case". The beaked bite will 
be at any person nearest the creature. 

Paralyzed characters struck while their back is to the 
grell have a 90% chance of pitching headlong into the 
pool. 

Those struck while facing other than the water have only 
a 20% chance of falling in if paralysis takes them. Having 
lived on slim pickings of humanoids having to come to 
the pool to draw water for the forces above, this monster 
has become very hungry and will attack most viciously. 

The Pool: Close inspection of the water shows it to be 
quite clear. The water is deep. (If measurement is 
possible, the party will find it is 40' to the bottom - silted 
and murkey there, of course.) Vision of any sort is but 3' 
when below 30' of depth, and a body can be found only 
on a 1 in 6 chance per round of searching. This appears 
to be a cistern or well of some sort. 

Treasure: There are humanoid bones in the layer of silt at 
the bottom of the pool. There is also a decanter of 
endless water there, seeping out about a pint of water per 
round through its partially opened stopper. (This was 
purposely commanded and placed where it is by a 
former servant of the Temple.) 

16. TORTURE CHAMBER: This area was obviously once 
used to fell ends, for rusted and rotting instruments of 
torture litter the floor and stand in crumbling heaps 
along the walls. The iron maiden is red with oxide and 
eaten through, the rack a mere pile of rotted wood and 
metal rust. The place has not been used for many, many 
years. 

Treasure: No treasure, or anything of any value, is here. 

There is a west passage off the torture room, and you 
note that there are four doors along its 30' length - two 
on the south wall, one at the end, and one on the north 
wall. 

4 Ear Seekers (per door!): AC9; MV 1"; HD-;h.p. 1 each; 

#AT 1; D special; SA lay eggs which burrow inwards 
and kill host 90% of the time (4-24 hour hatching 
period). 

Each door is infested with these insectoids, and any 
character attempting to listen at their rotted surface will 
be attacked by one ear seeker. They will feel it rush in, 
then later they will feel it crawl out (yechl). Unless a cure 
disease spell saves them, 9 in 10 are dead. 


Door A: This opens to a cell about 8' square, with rusted 
chains on the wall. There appears to be nothing of value 
here. 

Door B: As cell A., above, except that there are some 
bones beneath the chains. 

Door C: As door to cell A., with a couple of normal rats 
seen scurrying to their holes. 

Door D: This opens into a largish cell some 10' deep and 
10' long, a sort of common pen. There are quite a few 
bones scattered around on the dirty floor. 

Treasure: None of these rooms holds any treasure. The 
prisoners placed here were stripped of everything which 
was worth taking before being locked up. 

17. CRYPT: The faint charnel reek which still lingers here 
proves that the place was used to bury the remains of 
people - probably servants of the Temple. Sealed 
niches along the four walls of this parallelogram show 
where the interments were made. No space is devoid of 
a sealing wall of black bricks. Six great sarcophagi are 
lined up in the center of the chamber, three per row. They 
are all of black stone. Some glitter with gold, others 
platinum. Jewels wink and glisten from sculpted visages 
atop each, gem "eyes" of red. orange, yellow, green, 
blue, violet. You can also see at least a dozen rather 
shapeless statues lining the walls of the place - human 
sized, man-like forms of black stone, but without clearly 
defined limbs and with featureless heads. A statue twice 
as large stands at the head of each of the great burial 
vaults. 

1 Guardian Daemon: AC 1; MV 9" HD 8; h.p. 64; # AT 3; 

D 1-12/1-12/1-6; SA breathe fire cone from 10' to 30', 

10' wide at base, for 5-30 points of damage; SD +2 

or better magic weapon to hit, immune to all fire and 

charm, fear, hold, and sleep magic. 

This monstrous guardian has been commanded to remain 
here to protect the crypt from all intruders. It will be free 
of this command only when all the statues in the place 
are broken, or when its material form is slain. When any 
character sets foot in the crypt proper, a small face 
resembling a bulldog will seem to float out from the 
nearest statue. The eyes of this "dog" will peer sadly (but 
gleaming red) into those of the intruder. If one more 
person enters, or if another step is taken beyond the first, 
the floating bulldog-like face will suddenly swell into a 4' 
tall, broad-bodied creature with pointed ears, spiked 
ruff, huge fangs, and gorilla-like arms tipped by claws 
nearly six inches long. The suddenness of the transforma 
tion is such that the daemon is always given initiative on 
the first round of atack. It will fight the intruders until 
they, or it, are dead. If the party flees, the daemon will 
pursue for up to 108'. It will then return to its appointed 
place. It will not necessarily take station in the same 
statue. If the same intruders return to its chamber, the 
monster will attack them without warning, popping out 
of its statue and breathing fire. 

Treasure: The gems set in these vaults are worth 5,000 
g.p. each, except for the orange ones which are 10,000, 
i.e. 10 5,000 g.p. gems and 2 worth 10,000 each. The gold 
and platinum decorations and masks equal 12,000 g.p. 
weight and 3,000 g.p. weight respectively. Inside each 
sarcophagus are remains and a black flask. Each flask 
contains a potion of longevity, but the ages are 75% 
likely to have made the magic of the elixir work in reverse 


25 



to age the person quaffing it instead. These are the 
former high priests of the Temple, the only ones buried 
with wealth, and that is the entire wealth of the place. The 
other crypts contain nothing but dust and bones. 

18. CRYPT: This long, rather narrow room shows walls with 
black-bricked niches where burials have taken place. 
There are no empty places. Although the floor is relative 
ly clear of dust and dirt, it is unlikely that anyone has 
been here in many decades. 

Treasure: These crypts contain no treasure whatsoever. 
Each niche has a few bone shards and dust in it, nothing 
more. 

19. CRYPT: The north, east and south walls of this chamber 
show that square openings were carved into the rock and 
then closed fast with black bricks and mortar. It is 
obviously a burial chamber. The west wall has a faded 
painting of an inverted, two-stepped pyramid of purple 
hue. On one side of it is a shrouded black figure, on the 
other a black, many-rayed sun. Both of the black figures 
are merely outlined with silvery paint, now gray and 
lusterless with age. A lone bier stands in the center of the 
chamber. It is of black stone, and its lid is askew - 
something has disturbed it, recently from the tracks 
around it. 

1 Coffer Corpse: AC 4 (wears tattered chainmail); MV 6"; 
HD 8; h.p.33;#AT2; D1-6/1-6; SA double hit indicates 
a choke and victim will strangle in 3 more rounds; SD 
+1 or better weapon to hit; mind-affecting/influencing 
spells do not affect it; turned as Special by clerics (vs. 
Undead). 

This unusually powerful coffer corpse is the remains of 
the last High Priest of the Temple. Wongas by name. 
Unable to place himself in the chief crypt, not being able 
to get past the guardian there, he had his vault placed in 
this chamber. Before he could begin proper decoration 
of the sarcophugus, however, the last of the lesser 
priests and servants deserted the Temple. Eventually, 
Wongas stalked to his tomb alone, full of rage and hate 
and shame. The High Priest made his own corpse into a 
monster by force of hate and displeasure.The resulting 
coffer corpse is thus far stronger than that normally 
encountered. It will instantly attack anyone foolish 
enough to come within 3' of the bier. If struck by normal 
weapons, the thing will seem to be affected (keep a side 
record of such hits). When total damage, real and 
imagined by the party reaches 33, the monster will fall. 
As soon as another creature comes within 3', or the party 
fails to watch it, the thing will rise and attack again. 

Treasure: Inside the casket is a footman's mace. The 
weapon is +2. It is the only possession Wongas took with 
him in the end. 

20. CRYPT: This chamber appears to be a burial place. 
There are many square openings in the walls. Each such 
niche is some 2Vfe* square. They honeycomb the surfaces 
from floor level to the ceiling of the place nearly 20' 
above. Most are sealed with ebon-hued bricks, but a few 
are torn open with bricks, some splintered bones, and bits 
of wrapping cloth scattered and strewn about. Whether 
this was the work of grave robbers or ghouls can't be told 
from the evidence. There seems to be nothing else in the 
chamber. 

Treasure: There is nothing of worth in the chamber or in 
any of the many niches. 


21. SHRINE: The passageway divides to pass east and west 
of a huge ovoid pillar spanning from floor to ceiling. This 
column is more than 10' thick and slightly longer than 
20'. In the exact center of its (east/west) face is a recess. 
In this alcove is a black statue of a shrouded, man-like 
figure. Water seeps down the face of the figure, running 
drop by drop as if they were tears, coursing along the 
chest to a trough made by the arms, and then into a bowl. 
The water has left a slight deposit of reddish mineral over 
the years. The basin is filled, and a steady drip from it 
falls on the statue's feet, seeping away to who knows 
where. At the feet of the figure is another small statue, a 
spherical shape with many ray-like projections from it. 
This statue has a hollow place atop it which resembles a 
small bowl or dish. There are green and black objects in 
the dish. 

This shrine radiates a faint aura of evil and magic 
intermixed. The objects in the dish are tarnished silver 
pieces and corroded bronze and copper coins. The water 
in the bowl is at least semi-sacred to Tharizdun - or his 
memory. Any person touching it will feel a tingling. If that 
person does not devote himself or herself to Tharizdun 
then and there (or has done so already possibly) then 
the effects of the fluid will be baneful. All "to hit" and 
saving throws will be at -1, as will damage inflicted by the 
character, and all attacks and damage upon the character 
will be at +1 for that number of turns thereafter as the 
individual spent in rounds touching the Black Water of 
Tharizdun without wiping it off - tasting counting as 
three turns of touching. If some of the water is actually 
collected and kept, the individual so doing will feel the 
baneful effects until it is disposed of. (Note that if a 
person attuned to Tharizdun through touching of the 
chapel wall or railing touches or tastes this fluid, he or 
she will feel refreshed and reassured. The name 'Thariz 
dun" will float in the subconscious mind more firmly. Up 
to 3 hit points of damage will be restored by touching the 
water, twice that by tasting it, but no more than 6 can be 
restored in one day by this means. Tossing coins into the 
offery also mitigates the baneful effect. One round of ill 
effect is removed for every gold piece offered. 

(Note that the magic of the column extends beyond the 
two shrines. The pillar can not be affected by weapons or 
magic. No power can see through it, short of that by or 
actually of a deity. Thus, the fact that a shaft runs from far 
above to a place far below will not be known to the 
adventurers unless they have discovered the secret for 
themselves above and explored the place.) 

22. DIAMONDCOLUMN: Thisgreatpillarofebonystoneis 
in diamond or lozenge shape. Its four faces are carved in 
bold relief, each depicting a male figure of some sort. 
Those facing southwards are shown robed and cowled. 
Those to the north in plate mail, with strange helm and 
great halberd. The wall of the passage on either side of 
this column is hewn into a "V" shape - as if to allow easy 
passage past the pillar, or perhaps to accent one edge of 
it? 

2 Caryatid Columns: AC -2 (armor worn); MV 6"; HD 5; 
h.p. 2 x 25; #AT 1; D 1-10 (halberd); SA darkness cast 
in 5' radius of each as soon as they activate (does not 
affect their ''sight''); SD normal weapons cause one- 
half damage, magic weaponsgain no magical plusses. 

These golem-like things guard against entry from the 
north by any human. They are inactive unless they note a 
human or similar (ogres, for instance, are too dissimilar 


26 



to activate) creature passing southwards towards them. 
10' before the column, each caryatid will step out and 
attack. Also unlike other caryatids, these will break 
weapons on a base of 35%, thus a +1 breaks 30% of the 
time, +2 25%, etc. 

Treasure: These constructs have no treasure nor do they 
guard anything save the entry to the dungeons. 

23. VAST CAVERN: You are on the verge of a large, natural 
cavern .From the echoes you hear, it seems I ikely that it is 
a place of over 5,000 square feet and at least 40 high . The 
walls to east and west fade out of sight, but seem to slope 
gently northwards. The floor where you stand is quite 
smooth, and it is easy to see that some work was done 
here to make it level. There are a couple of broken stones 
just a few feet from where you stand. 

Note: If the mountain giant and his bodyguards have 
retreated to this area, the party will receive three 
boulders - one from due north (about 24.), one from 
northwest, and one from west northwest (Groorg, 
being nearest the escape passage). Each rock will be 
at +4 hit probability, but once the party moves around, 
they will confuse the giants and probability will return 
to normal. See LOWER LEVEL. 8 ., for details of 
actions by Groorg in this case. 


24. CENTER: Proceeding to the middle of the cavern, you 
are able to determine that it is about 180' long and almost 
half as wide. The floor has been worked to make it more 
level - as if traffic through this area was once common. 
What you took to be a large stalagmite here is actually 
another of the familiar figures of black stone, this one 
glazed with mineral deposits from the dripping ceiling of 
the cavern. 

(If any of the party members touches the figure, the 
whole place will grow instantly dark - completely black. 
Even magic swords will not shed illumination. After one 
segment of this, each character will begin to be able to 
"see'' in the total blackness. There will be shades of 
black! Lustrous black, dull black, deep ebony and pale 
jet. Rays of black radiance will illuminate the whole 
cavern, seeming to wash outwards from the statue in 
waves of rolling black light. The person unused to such a 
phenomenon (all of the characters in all probability) will 
be too stunned to act quickly, but they will be able to 
"see" any opponents - such as giants, for instance - 
lurking in the western end of the place. In any event, the 
effect will last only a segment, then blackness will return 
normally for yet a segment. Then light sources will again 
work. The statue will not function again in such manner 
for 3 days. It radiates an uncertain but powerful form of 
magic.) 

Treasure: There is no treasure here or elsewhere in the 
general section of the cavern. 

25. BONE PILES: Stacks of bones lie here. Skulls are piled 
against the east and west walls, other bones are criss 
crossed and interwoven in large heaps. There are human, 
humanoid, demi-humans bones, as well as bones of 
many sorts of animals and monsters stacked rather 
neatly in piles. There are so many bones here that they 
actually take up almost half of the space in this small 
portion of the cavern. All of the calcareous white pieces 
are clean and well-gnawed. 


2 Meazels: AC 3 (chainmail clad); MV 12"; HD 4; h.p. 32; 
28; #AT 2; D 3-8/3-8 (short swords +2 due to strength) 
and 2-5/2-5 (daggers+1 due to strength); SA 4th level 
thief abilities), attack from behind with garrote (killing 
in 2 rounds thereafter). 

As most creatures must, meazels occasionally mate in 
order to propagate their dreadful kind. This pair is very 
old, clever, large, tough, and successful. They lair in a 
low-roofed fissure in the southwestern portion of the 
area. The 3' high entrance to this place is masked by a 
boulder. Whenever they hear anything approaching, or if 
light is detected, both creep silently out of their den and 
climb to a ledge some 15' above. This ledge runs from the 
spot above their lair eastwards for 20' or more, then 
northeast along the cavern wall for another 20'. It is 
about 4' wide, so they can easily move along it or crouch 
down so as to avoid being seen. Whenever opportunity 
presents, they will creep down from the ledge behind the 
party and attack silently from behind. Each has padded 
and greased their mail so as to avoid noise. Each carries 
weapons too, just as their prey and foes typically do. 
While they prefer to strangle their food, these monsters 
will hack it to pieces if necessary. 

Treasure: A search amongst the bones will reveal 1-4 
base 10 g.p. gems per turn of searching per person. No 
more than 40 such gems can be so discovered. In the 
small fissure lair they have secreted many bags of coins, 
201 - 300 in a large sack. 51 -100 in a small one: 3 large 
sacks b.p.,* 2 large sack c.p., 1 large sack s.p., 1 large 
sack g.p., 1 small sack b.p, 5 small sacks c.p., 3 small 
sacks s.p., 2 small sacks e.p., 1 small sack g.p., 1 small 
sack p.p. 

* bronze pieces are accepted at rate of 4 b.p. to 1 c.p. 

26. SMALL CAVE. This adjunct to the larger cavern to the 
east is unremarkable, save for the fact that it has a 5' wide 
passage leading roughly westwards from it. A faint 
breeze blows out from this passage. 

(In the event that Groorg makes a stand here, there will 
be a few boulders piled just outside the area. If he does 
not make it here, there will be over a dozen of these rocks 
visable to the party.) 


27. The passage begins to widen a bit and slants slightly 
downwards. After several hundred feet of travel you note 
that the air smells fresh, and has an odor of growing 
things. A few steps more you round a bend in the 
passage and step out onto a mountain meadow, a cup 
like place a hundred yards wide and twice as long. An 
animal track leads southwards, and before long you are 
certain that you can be back atop the Temple mountain 
or on your way to Gnome Vale or elsewhere. 

THE UNDERTEMPLE 

You dare all and begin to clamber down the shaft you have 
discovered in the secret room. (Check for weak rungs! See 
INSET AREA, LOWER LEVEL for details.) After what seems an 
endless climb you notice the air growing colder and your light 
sources dimmer... 

1. SHAFT TERMINUS: At last you are at the bottomof the 
shaft. There is a low passage leading south, so there isn't 
much trouble deciding where to go. You are disturbed to 


27 



note that your light sources seem very poor now, with 
only about one-half the illumination that they shed 
above. It isn't the air, for even magical daggers and 
swords give off but dim light. 

(There is no way to correct lighting, for even continual 
light seems dim. If freshly cast, the spell will seem to be 
normal, but after a segment or two the radiance begins to 
grow brownish around the edges and the sphere seems 
to contract to about half normal diameter. Vision is 
uncertain, forms shadowy.If the iron torches and special 
cones are used, they will provide good, bright light only 
in area 4. In all other areas they will shed illumination in a 
5' radius, nothing more.) 


THE UNDERTEMPLE 



2. SMALL CHAMBER.You have come but 40' south down 
the passage. The 10' wide walls of rough, black volcanic 
stone widen here where four passages meet. The ceiling, 
only about 12' high in the passage, is domed here to a 
height of about 20'. As you enter this area, there is a 
strange iron gonging, and then all is silent again, but you 
all feel something strange. Before you the walls seem to 
waver and turn purple. A voice of incredible basso-sort 
speaks out of nowhere: 

"LOOK ABOVE YOU TO KNOW YOUR FATE." 

You cannot resist an upward glance. The ceiling is of 
transparent, seemingly infinite purple. Swimming through 
this universe of violet hue are glowing black runes. In a 
moment you can understand them: 

"Those whom I find unfit I place on my left," say the first 
set. 

The next set states: "Those who succeed I place on my 
right." 

Lastly: "The chosen may come before ME!" 

The ceiling quickly fades to black, and all is normal - if 
there is such a thing in this place - once again. 

3. TRAPEZOIDAL CHAMBER:The poor light allows you to 
determine little of this place, but you can see gleaming 
metal to the east. There appear to be suits of armor there, 
some fallen, others still on their stands. Likewise there 
are shields of archaic type hung on the walls. Perhaps 
those are shelves too, with books and other items lined 
up on them. The light is too poor to tell for sure at any 
distance. 


1 Shadow Demon: AC1 (poor light conditions): MV 12" 
- leap 30', run 18' for 1 round; HD 7 +3; h.p. 53; #AT3; 
D 1-6/1-6/1-8; SA 2 extra attacks for 1-6/1-6 when 
leaping, surprises foe 90% of the time, spell casting 
(Darkness, Fear 30' R., Magic Jar) once each; SD 'h 
damage from all weapons (due to light, +1 or better 
weapon to hit.immune to all spells and magic save 
light, continual light, etc. 

This monster has been here for generations, and it is 
most disturbed about it. It can hardly wait to vent its fury 
upon whatever creature is foolish enough to enter the 
chamber in which it is imprisoned. Upon sight of the light 
of the party, the shadow demon will skulk along the 
walls, awaiting its chance to get between the adventurers 
and the exit from the place. Once there, it will attack. 
Whether from behind or before, the creature will leap 
upon its chosen victim, raking with its talons and biting 
fiercely. It will continue to so attack unless the opponents 
are too strong. In the latter case, the shadow demon will 
use darkness and fear (in that order) to protect itself and 
then scatter the party. If a very powerful magic-user is 
present, the monster will use a nearby brass amulet as its 
"jar" and use magic jar to attempt to take over such an 
opponent. The demon will certainly fight to the end, for it 
has no desire to remain forever in this foresaken place. 

Treasure: Despite the first appearance, and the fact that 
there are many items of the sort which could be of value, 
the chamber contains nothing of value, no treasure, no 
magic, nothing worth taking. The books are crumbling 
and of no interest, the boxes and jars and urns are of 
cheap wood, brass, or pottery. The armor is of ancient 
sort, and the metal is soft and easily pierced by hardened 
steel. The shields are rotting and of no worth. There is 
one item on the person of the shadow demon which it 
could not destroy and so guarded. It is a wand of light 
safe in a metal case. 

4. OCTAGONAL CHAMBER:This place is over 40' across 
and about as high. The rough igneous rock from which 
the chamber was hewn is featureless except for inlaid 
stone symbols on each wall surface save the north where 
the passage enters. The symbols are the familiar two- 
step pyramid, reversed. 

(Touching one of these symbols will cause a 10' radius 
circle in the exact center of the chamber floor to turn a 
translucent, faintly glowing purple color. At this time the 
iron horn must be sounded. Next round the floor returns 
to its dead black condition, and sounding the horn will 
only make noise.) 

(If the party has the horn, and one blows it while the floor 
glows, then read the following to them:) 

Upon sounding the horn you see the glowing floor 
brighten and begin to pulse. The dark, translucent purple 
grows brighter, lighter, transparent. It seems to rise 
slowly in a column, and around it is a curtain of gray 
vapors, like-wise rising slowly towards the ceiling of the chamber. 
The room is growing frigid! (If the characters have not 
donned the black robes and hoods, or if they don't do so 
now. they will begin taking cold damage at the rate of 1-4 
points per round, rolling once for the entire party.) Now 
you see a black pillar rising in the heart of the glowing, 
20' diameter beam of purple. As this black shaft touches 
the ceiling, the gray vapors thicken and make vision of 
the whole obscure. 


28 





(The characters must now light the incense in the 
thuribles and begin to swing them; they must also light 
the torches' cones. The incense from the thuribles will 
dissolve the gray vapors, much as a passwall spell allows 
passage through stone. Then, by advancing and swinging 
them so as to cause the smoke to stream outwards, the 
purple light will seem to fade and an archway become 
evident. The party must pass through this archway and 
down the "steps" of deep lilac, which they can see, being 
careful not to touch the core of black. Descent leads 
them to The Black Cyst. The portal will last for 3 hours, 
then it will disappear. It can NOT be invoked from within 
the lowest area. Time is important, so keep track of it! 
Damage accruing to characters, other than that from 
cold, is; 

Touching gray 
vapors 

Touching purple 
shaft 

Touching black 
central core 


covered by 
black robe 
not covered 
covered by 
black robe 
not covered 


1- 6 points 

2- 12 points 

3- 12 points 
6-24 points 
save vs. 
magic or 
disintegrated 


5. HEXAGONAL CHAMBER: This place has five 
strange formations in it. Each appears similar to a small 
tree, its trunk of shiny black near the base but then 
becoming a shade of color as it grows upwards, until 
finally branches, twigs, and leaves are of brighter hue. 
From left to right you see: 


opalescent black tree 
deep green tree 
metallic crimson tree 
indigo blue tree 
smoky purple tree 


(fighter class only) 

(cleric class only) 

(thief class only) 

(magic-user class only) 

(any other class, or any others) 


Each tree has globular fruit-like growths hanging from its 
branches. Although the trees themselves vary in color as 
described, the fruit of each is the same lustrous black. 


(If a character of the correct class goes to the tree of the 
color appropriate to his or her profession and picks one 
of the fruits from the tree, it will shatter in his or her hand. 
The character must make a system shock saving throw. If 
it fails, the character turns to black ash in a blaze of cold, 
colorless fire-forever gone. If it succeeds, the character 
gains 1 full point of strength (fighters), wisdom (clerics), 
dexterity (thieves), or intelligence (magic-users). The 
full point does not make an individual a 19/50 strength 
rating, for example, just plain 19. If this is tried a second 
time, the system shock roll must again be made, and if 
successful the character loses 2 points. A third attempt 
will reverse system shock probabilities and take away 4 
points. A fourth will instantly slay the fool trying it. If a 
character of the wrong class attempts to take a fruit from 
a tree, he or she will take 3-30 points of damage and have 
to make a system shock saving throw besides in order to 
avoid death as described above. A second try with a 
wrong color tree will certainly slay the character, 
delivering another 3-30 hit points and reversing system 
shock probabilities. If this is somehow survived, and a 
third wrong fruit is picked, death is automatic. Only the 
fruit of the purple tree can be picked by any character 
class. Any character not already having picked a fruit 
may pluck one from the purple tree. The character will 
notice that some of the fruits appear large and robust, 


others most lustrous and appealing. If the former is 
picked, 1 full point of constitution is gained. If the latter is 
taken, then 1 full point of charisma is gained, no system 
shock saving throw necessary. However, if a second 
attempt is made, or if a character who has already picked 
a fruit from another tree tries to pick one from the purple 
tree, a reverse system shock saving throw is necessary, 
and 1 point is lost from each category of attribute. A third 
try is always fatal.) 

(It must be stressed that time will not alter the ill effects of 
picking multiple or wrong fruits. An hour, a day, a decade 
makes no difference. This is a once-in-a-lifetime 
opportunity!) 

THE BLACK CYST 

You have dared all and descended the spiralling purple steps 
formed by the strange column of gray smoke, lilac light, and jet 
black. This swirling, pulsing column of radiation has opened a 
means of entrance to somewhere far beneath the surface of the 
earth - or perhaps to some place not of this earth. All of you 
feel the press of time, a sense of urgency. How long will this 
strange gate remain open? You all hope not to learn the hard 
way as you hurry down a seemingly endless flight of "steps" 
made of the purple radiance. Ten minutes seems more like ten 
hours, but at last you have come to what must be your final 
goal, for the stairs of light give way to more mundane ones of 
black stone ... 


THE BLACK CYST 



1. You are now descending steps cut into the sides of a 
circular chamber only 20' across - just the diameter of 
the pillar of radiance you descended through. As you 
look up. the pillar stretches far above you. So far you 
have a way of return! You note that the walls, steps, and 
the floor of this place are of needle-sharp mineral. To 
touch it will be to inflict many wounds upon the member 
so doing. To brush against it with your robes will be to 
risk shredding these protective garments. You must be 
careful! There is an opening about 12' wide in the south 
wall. You see space beyond, and you head for it. 

(This place is COLD. Exposed flesh immediately takes 
2-12 poi nts of damage, 3-18 if it also touches metal (such 
as a sword or the like) . Torches m ust likewise be clasped 


29 



by means of the robe sleeve covering the hand, although 
the heat of their burning cones helps to keep the 
adventurers from suffering more than chilblains. The 
incense in the thuribles isn't needed now, but it will be to 
get back up the purple column. Remember, incense 
burns for 3 turns/ball and torch cones burn for 6 turns 
each. In this place, only the torches give off any light. All 
other sources of illumination and/or heat are barely 
glowing! If the party stays in the area for more than 6 
turns, they will begin to feel very cold and take 1 -4 points 
of damage per turn from this cold - a gentle reminder to 
get out. If without torches to warm the air around them, 
damage will be 1-4 points per round, not turn.) 


2. THE CYST: As you enter thishemisphericalchamber of 
some 40' diameter, the name of the place comes unbidden 
to your minds. It is called the cyst, The Black Cyst. From 
where you stand near the entrance, your iron torches 
cast only a faint light to where some form lies near the 
center of the place. This shape is so black that it is 
absolutely lightless, and it seems to absorb all the 
radiance from your torches. As was true in the entry 
chamber, so too here; all is needle-rock. 

(If by some chance a player allows his or her character to 
contact this stone subjecting his or her robe to its cutting 
qualities, the robe will take from 1-6 points of damage. 
The character wearing that robe will, in turn, take that 
many points of cold damage per turn he is in the Cyst 
area.) 

3. THE FORM ON THE BLOCK: In the center of the room 
there is a stone block. It is about 12' long, 4' high, and 6' 
wide. On it rests a shape wrapped in black haze. Under 
the haze is something so black that all light is lost to it. 
The eyes hurt to look at it, and the gaze avoids doing so. 
As you move around this block of needle-rock you notice 
that an occasional ripple seems to pass through the 
lightless, haze-swathed form. Is it stirring? You can't be 
sure. On the other side of the block you note devices of 
black metal. Two great metal cressets, each with three 
arms, stand at the head and foot of the block. There is a 
step-like block of the same jagged stone set against the 
main part - perhaps the step is part of it, for you can 
detect no seam. The smaller piece is 4' long. 3' wide, 2' 
high. To either side of it are low stands with three cup 
like extensions. Beyond this, the place is bare and empty. 

(Close examination of the cressets will reveal that each is 
meant to hold three of the torch cones. Likewise, if the 
stands are examined closely, it will be seen that they will 
hold three balls of incense each. Lastly, if the ends of the 
step are examined, it will be seen that each has a 
triangular opening, the point of the triangle pointing downwards.) 

(The horn must again be sounded - but only after the 
mouthpiece has been warmed in a torch cone for 1 
round, otherwise cold/metal damage will be taken (3-18 
points). When the blast sounds, the whole place will 
tremble, and the secret door to the south which allows 
entry to area 4. will sink downwards for 6 rounds. It will 
rise automatically on the seventh round, and the horn 
must again be sounded to reopen the portal. A second 
horn sounding will make the cyst tremble violently, 
throwing characters to the floor. Those not saving versus 
magic will have torn their robes.) 

You have looked at everything, considered everything, 
and there is only one answer which seems plausible to 
you. The time has come to use the strange Iron Horn of 
Tharizdun once again! 


4. SECRET ROOM: When the reverberations cease and the 
trembling of the Cyst subsides, you are astonished to 
note that there is now a broad doorway in the south wall 
where before there was nothing but stone. You step near 
and peer into the place beyond. There you see a small 
chamber of about 10' diameter. There are two large 
chests of the now-familiar black metal. The glyphs 
stating Tharizdun's name are upon each, and they 
appear seamless. Nothing else is in this circular space. 

(Only by speaking the name "Tharizdun" will these 
containers open to reveal their contents. In the one to the 
left are 60 balls of incense and a piece of black metal, 3' 
long, with a triangular end. The other holds 30 torch 
cones and a like metal bar. Cones and incense must be 
placed properly and set alight by the burning torch 
cones of the party. Then the two keys may be used to fit 
into the step. Only these two keys will trigger it to move. 
They will do so only if the light is correct and the incense 
burning.) 

Treasure: By inserting and turning the key bars you have 
found you have caused the smaller step to move into the 
block. Beneath is an opening in which three things rest: 

1. A long tube of black metal. 

2. A small box of the same black metal. 

3. A bag of metallic, black cloth. 

(These items are freezing COLD. They can not be 
touched except through the black cloth of the special 
robes. It might be difficult to carry them along with the 
rest of the paraphernalia needed to exist here - that is 
the problem of the party and up to your ajudication. The 
long tube of black metal contains a wand of force. (This 
item is explained in the section at the end of the module.) 
The small box is covered with three score needle traps 
which are triggered by body heat - here in the cold they 
do not function. Each needle is poisoned. Inside the box 
are the legendary 333 Gems of Tharizdun.. .unfortunately 
only2-8 of them will be 5,000 or BETTER (no devaluation 
possible with these gems). The remainder will be nothing 
more than largish gems of base 50 g.p. value. The box 
has value, however. Describe it as a stone coffer with 
small, square legs which hold it about one inch above the 
surface upon which it rests. The left rear leg of the box is 
a cube of force which can be detached by simply casting 
a dispel magic on the box. The bag of metallic cloth is 
tied fast with black metal wire. It can be opened with care 
despite the cold, if the party desires to do so while in the 
Cyst. Inside is a book bound in black, scaly hide. Its 
pages are all of black, and the sigils and glyphs inside are 
inscribed in silver. If anyone other than a cleric of 
Tharizdun opens and attempts to decipher it, he or she 
will, with the aid of a read magic spell, be able to 
understand that it is titled LAMENT FOR LOST 
THARIZDUN before their mind goes blank for 2-12 
rounds and they take 3-30 points of damage. What this 
tome is, says, and does is the subject of some later 
revelation. If the party wishes to dispose of the work, 
some sage or savant will gladly pay them 33,000 gold 
pieces for it and its bag.) 

THUS ENDS THE ADVENTURE IN THE FORGOTTEN TEMPLE 

OF THARIZDUN 


Special Note: I wish to thank Rob Kuntz for inspiration 
regarding the subject material of this scenario. Thanks too to 
the original group of players: Luke Gygax, Mike Olson, Sonny 
Savage, Richard Kuntz, and (of course) Mitch Preston! 


30 



ANNIS 


FREQUENCY: Very rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1-3 
ARMOR CLASS: 0 
MOVE: 15" 

HIT DICE: 7 +3-12 
% IN LAIR: 20% 

TREASURE TYPE: D 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 3 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 2-9/2-9/3-9 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Grappling (see below) 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 100% vs. illusion/phantasm magic 
only 

INTELLIGENCE: Low-exceptional 
ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Evil 
SIZE: L (7%-8' tall) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Attack/Defense Modes: Nil/nil 
LEVEL/X.P. VALUE: VII/1.300 +10/h.p. 


The race of annis (singular and plural) are relatives of the night 
hags of the Lower Planes. Their appearance is similar to night 
hags, but annis are larger and more physically powerful. Annis 
dwell naturally upon the Prime Material Plane. These giantesses 
are particularly fond of tender flesh from young humans, 
although they will devour even so rank a beast as a stench kow, 
so voracious is their appetite. It is common for annis to dwell 
singly or in a small group but these creatures have been known 
to cooperate with such monsters as ogres, trolls, evil giants, 
and the like for reasons of safety or better provisions: and, 
occasional communities of this nature have been encountered. 



Description: An annis is a deep blue color, quite similar in 
complexion and visage to a night hag. Likewise, hair, teeth, 
and nails are glossy black. The eye of an annis are usually dull, 
however, being greenish or yellow instead of the red of their 
night hag counsins. The tall body is thin, muscular, and wiry. 
The arms and legs are long and quick. Their garb is not 
dissimilar to that of a peasant woman, but it will usually be 
more tattered, ragged, and filth covered. 


An annis typically attacks with her iron-like talons and teeth, 
inflicting horrible wounds in this manner. As the strength of an 
annis is equal to a hill giant (19), they also tend to grapple with 
an opponent. If one succeeds in hitting with all three of her 
attacks during the same round, the annis has grappled her 
opponent after inflicting damage, and the opponent is held 
fast. Next round all attacks of the annis grappling its opponent 
are automatic hits, unless the opponent is stronger, the annis 
is slain, or the victim has some means of magical escape (such 
as becoming ethereal, dimension dooring, etc.). Otherwise, 
the annis will continue to hold her grip and deliver damage by 
raking talons and gnawing fangs until the opponent is slain. 


In addition to normal attacks, an annis has the spell-like ability 
of casting a fog cloud at an opponent. This will be done to 
confuse resistance or delay attack by a superior foe. 
Defensively, an annis has the spell-like power of change self, 
so one can appear as a large human, ogre, etc. Such powers 
are usuable one at a time, one per round, twice per day. They 
are cast at 8th level for purposes of determination of spell 
range, duration, etc. 

Due to the iron-hard skin of an annis, treat the monster as if she 
were clad in plate mail for purpose of adjusting weapons 
versus armor type for "to hit" rolls. In any event, edged 
weapons will do -1 damage, blunt ones +1, when striking an 
annis. (Consider flails and morning stars as blunt weapons.) 

Annis have normal infravision but superior hearing and sense 
of smell. They speak their own language, ogrish, common 
giant, and a smattering of the common tongue. Some of the 
most intelligent are able to speak various humanoid languages 
in addition, and have a better fluency in common. 


BOGGART 

FREQUENCY: Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 2-5 
ARMOR CLASS: -6 
MOVE: 18" 

HIT DICE: 6 
% IN LAIR: Nil 
TREASURE TYPE: Nil 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 2-12 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: See below 
INTELLIGENCE: Very-exceptional 
ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Evil 
SIZE: S(2'+ in human-like form) 

PSIONIC AILITY: Nil 
Attack/Defense: Nil/nil 
LEVEL/X.P. VALUE: VI/625 +6/h.p. 

A boggart is the immature form of a will-o-wisp. One appears 
as a small demi-human. humanoid, or will-o-wisp as it desires. 
However, while a boggart has more forms than its adult 
counterpart, it can retain one of these forms for no more than 
10 or 12 rounds before losing control and shifting to some 
other form. Of course, a boggart can purposely change forms 
anytime it wishes. These monsters need both flesh and life 
force to grow to maturity. Boggarts tend to use human-like 
forms to lure adults of that sort. They often use demi-human 
form to attract larger creatures which would relish eating such 
a small and tasty morsel. Once trapped or ambushed, the adult 
or would-be predator becomes the prey of the boggart. The 
monster devours the victim's life force as it dies as well as 
victim's physical body. 


31 


The boggart attacks by touch, delivering 2-12 points of 
damage from electrical energy. It can also discharge a bolt of 
this energy every other round, sending the discharge up to 10'. 
However, the opponent so attacked is entitled to a saving 
throw versus magic, and if it succeeds, the victim suffers only 
half normal damage (1-6 hit points). The most devious attack 
of a boggart is by confusion. This a boggart can create (cast) 
once per day by making noise - yelling, screaming, shouting, 
whistling, banging, pounding, thumping - for two consecutive 
rounds. All creatures within a 30' radius of this noise will be 
affected if they can hear it clearly, and even covering the ears 
will not help to be unaffected. Such creatures must save versus 
magic or be confused for 7-12 melee rounds. Only a successful 
attack on a boggart casting a confusion will cause it to stop its 
noise prior to completion. If more than 1 boggart is making the 
noise, then all must be stopped in order to foil the confusion. 
Saves versus such a multiple casting are made at -1 for each 
boggart completing 2 rounds of continuous noise. 

A boggart can also become invisible for up to 12 rounds; and 
this is possible in any form the creature is in at the time it 
chooses to become invisible. Note that invisibility will not be 
broken because of making noise, so an invisible boggart can 
create a horrific racket. Just as with a will-o-wisp, any weapon 
will damage the immature form. However, all spells save magic 
missile, maze, and protection from evil are useless versus a 
boggart. When reduced to 5 or fewer hit points, a boggart will 
use all of its wit and devices to escape further combat. This 
escape is usually accomplished by becoming invisible and 
running away or floating in will-o-wisp form over some ground 
impassable to the monster's enemies. 

Boggarts have the ability to use a limited form of ESP to 
understand and speak all languages, although such speech 
will be very basic and limited. When in glowing will-o-wisp 
form, they can pass through solid, non-living objects, even 
stone walls, up to 2' thick. Metals are impassable to them, for 
they ground out the electrical energy of the creatures. Boggarts 
have normal infravision in man-like form. 



Description: In demi-human guise, a boggart typically appears 
as a small halfling or young gnome. In humanoid form, the 
creature usually takes the shape of a goblin imp, young xvart, 
or norker neut. As a will-o-wisp. a boggart is smaller and 
brighter than it's mature form. 


WAND OF FORCE: Although it is rumored that the concept of 
such a wand has taken many forms, the one which has been 
popularized, so to speak, is a tri-functional device. Only the 
use of the third function requires considerable operator 
knowledge. Primarily, a wand of force enables the wielder to 
cause a shaft of nearly invisible, blue-white energy to spring 
forth from its tip. This shaft extends 4' and is equal in effect to a 
+5 sword (bastard) with respect to both hit probability and 
damage inflicted. It cuts stone at 5 inches per cut, metal at .05 
inches per cut. This usage expends 1 charge per turn. 
Secondly, a wand of force can be employed to create a wall of 
force duplicating the fifth level magic-user spell of the same 
name (q.v.) as if cast by a 10th level magic-user. This function 
expends 1 charge per force wall created, and a single usage 
per round is possible. Thirdly, a wand of force can be 
employed to create a nearly invisible plane of energy which 
performs exactly as if it had been created by casting of a 
Bigby's Forceful Hand spell (q.v.). The wand user must 
actually be a magic-user in order to activate this function and, 
regardless of his or her level, one of the various Bigby's 
Hand/Fist spells must be recorded for study (not necessarily 
for casting) in the spell books of the wand wielder. Use of the 
third function expends one-half of a charge every round. 
Fighters of all types are able to utilize the primary and 
secondary functions of the wand. In addition to its normal 
means of being recharged by a magic-user, the device can also 
draw sufficient energy to regain a single charge by being 
touched to any of the following: 

BIGBY'S HAND/FIST manifestations 

MORDENKAINEN'S SWORD manifestation 

WALL OF FORCE 

Touching with the wand acts as if a disintegrate spell were 
cast, destroying the spell/manifestation instantly and drawing 
power equal to one charge into the wand. 

X.P. VALUE: 3,000 G.P. SALE VALUE: 30,000 

BEADS OF FORCE: These small black spheres might be 
mistaken for some common bead, a marble, or perhaps an 
unusually black but lusterless pearl. Each is about three- 
quarters of an inch in diameter and quite heavy, weighing 
almost an ounce. One can be hurled up to 3" distance. Upon 
impact, the bead will send forth a burst of force which will 
inflict 5-20 hit points of damage upon all creatures within a 10' 
radius of its burst. Those saving will take full damage, but the 
force will have thrown them back. Those failing to save versus 
magic will immediately be encapsulated after taking damage. 
The force will form a sphere around these victims (even those 
of large size) and they will be unable to escape except by the 
same means by which a wall of force is brought down. The 
effect wears out in 3-12 rounds. From 5-8 of these beads are 
usually found. 

X.P. VALUE 200 each GP SALE VALUE: 1,000 each 


CREDITS 

MODULE DESIGN: E. Gary Gygax 
EDITING: Andrea Otson-Bamas 
ART: Karen Nelson 
GRAPHICS: Eric Nelson Shook 
LAYOUT: Ruth Hodges 
KEYLINE: Linda Bakk 

PLAYTESTERS: Luke Gygax, David Kuntz, Richard 

Kuntz, Mike Olson, Sonny Savage 

AND SPECIAL THANKS TO: Robert Kuntz
