Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 06061 R 2 The Investigation Of Hydell ( Level 5 7)"
See other formats
the investigation op hy6ell 






















































































































MlSl! 



- 


j1 

48 


1 ; 1 





43 






i 





32 






30 



1 1_ 


¦ ¦ I 1 m 


o a o o 1 


f 


S 



0 

1 








47 


T_i 






s ; 

¦ 


¦ 


46 



? 





n 

lJ 

42 

1 


¦:! 

M 

















































































the investigation of hybeLL 

By Frank Mentzer 

An RPGA(tm) AD&D(tm) Module for 5 Characters, Levels 5/5 


Slinks are clean, well cared for, happy, obedient semi-humans. Why are they content to be slaves? They 
are 
protected by law, owned by many a wealthy merchant, and even have church approval. So why is high 
cleric 
MacKurian suspicious? Can you sneak into the old ruin and find out what slinks really are, and where 
they're coming 
from? 

This is the second of the RPGA series of AD&D modules. Each RPGA module has been used at an official 
GEN CON(r) 
tournament and has been designed to provide maximum entertainment. THE INVESTIGATION OF 
HYDELL is usable 
in campaign or tournament play, and may be scored by points or using the RPGA Tournament system. 
This adventure 
is designed for a balanced party of 5-8 characters of levels 5-7, and 5 tournament characters are 
provided, along with 
general and detail maps, scenario and character background information, and detailed encounter 
descriptions for the 
DM. 


This prod net is protected tinder the copyright laws ol the United States ol America. Any reproduction 
orolher unauthorind use at the material or artwork contained herein ie prohibited without the wn hen 
consent ol 

TSR Hobbies, Ing. 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS is a registered trademark owned by TSR Hobbies, lnc + 

GEN CON(r) and RPGA(tm) are service marks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc. 

The designation "TM ,> is used to refer to other trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies. Inc, 

(r) 1982 TSR Hobbies, tec. Alt Rights Reserved, 

RPGA(tm) DIVISION OF TSR HOBBIES, INC. 


Printed in U.S.A. 
ISBN 0-935676-97-0 





























Hydell, Part 1 


BACKGROUND 


Your group of adventurers knows each other welt; 
you have been exploring near-by dungeons for over a 
year. But during that time, a strange thing has hap 
pened in your home town of Nimbortan: slavery has 
reappeared, after being banished for over a century. 

Concerned about the possible inroads of evil in your 
community, you have consulted the town rulers about 
this phenomenon' only to find that many of them (the 
good, the lawful, and the neutral alike!) have slaves 
themselves. They have repeatedly assured you that all 
is well, and offer the slaves themselves as evidence: 
they are clean, well cared for, happy, obedient, and 
only semi-human. The owners call them Slinks. 

This apparently new race does not speak; they only 
grunt a bit as they go about their tasks. Local pranks 
ters have done their work on the slinks, only to find 
their efforts ignored; the slinks submit to any indignity, 
and merely get up afterwards to continue their chores. 
Occasionally one is beaten badly enough to merely lie 
on the ground, apparently paralyzed; the constables, 
or sometimes the owner, soon come and take it away. 

Pressured by the wealthy owners of the slinks, the 
church fathers have issued formal proclamations pro 
tecting the slinks from harm. Woe be to anyone abus 
ing a slink; a heavy fine and imprisonment is the least to 
be expected if the offender is caught. 

No harm has come because of these creatures; in 
deed, the town is doing better than ever. The slinks are 
never used for common labor, only for routine chores 
and personal services, and only for their individual 
masters. No slink has ever committed a crime; they are 



totally inoffensive creatures, apparently quite happy 
with what they do. But there are some who still have 
their doubts. 

Clerics have ail been warned to leave the slinks com 
pletely alone. The slinks are known to be magical; one 
of the proclamations forbids the casting of dispel 
magic spells on them. Their owners have paid dearly 
for them: from 5,000 gp for the small ones to 50,000 gp 
for the large. 

You were summoned one dark night to the home of 
the high cleric MacKurian to discuss the problem. He 
confessed that the stronger the owners' assurances 
became, the more doubts he had. "No living being 
would willingly submit itself to slavery!" he argues. 
"Their magical nature and mysterious origins indicate 
that something dangerous is afoot. And where are the 
slinks coming from?" 

He and several other concerned prominent citizens 
("all Lawful and Good", he mentions) have reluctantly 
banded together secretly to find the root of the prob 
lem. They have found that a prospective slink buyer 
leaves a message with a known person, and is then 
escorted to an old castle about 5 miles away. Down 
stairs, the slinks are displayed, prices are discussed, 
and (more often than not) the buyer proudly returns 
with a personal slink servant. The complex is clean, 
well run, heavily guarded, and apparently a normal 
business operation. It is more than just the innocent 
appearing first level; there is something below. 

Your group has been offered a reward of 10,000 gp 
per person, plus the right to keep any treasure and 
magic items found, if you will sneak into the complex, 
find out what is going on, and shut down operations. 
Your identities will be kept secret, as the power of the 
slink owners could destroy you it you are successful in 
this. 

The rich reward for your adventuring skills has con 
vinced you to take the offer. After equipping yourselves 
as best you can, you have set out one morning, headed 
towards the old castle. 

YOUR OBJECTIVE: In the first round of this tourna 
ment, you are trying to penetrate the complex without 
raising an alarm, collecting as much treasure as possi 
ble along the way. Play ends when any party member 
descends the stairs to the lower levels. 

SCORING: You will gain score for treasure and magic 
items found and kept, plus bonus scores for (a) each 
party member surviving, and (b) any party member 
going down the stairs within the time limit. Magic items 
(such as potions) found may be used without loss of 
score. 


2 





Hydell, Part 1 


Notes For The DM 


PREPARATION: Read the module, paying particular 
attention to areas HI-3 and #18. When the players are 
assembled, hand out the character sheets and allow 
the players to select one each; give them exactly 5 
minutes to review and compare them, placing no other 
restrictions on them. The players may refer to any and 
all AD&D(tm) materials and books before the adventure 
begins, but only the PLAYERS HANDBOOK during the 
adventure. Do not assist the players In any way, and do 
not look up things for them. 

When the 5 minutes are up, give the BACKGROUND 
sheets to a volunteer, to read it aloud to the rest of the 
players. After they read it, give them exactly 5 minutes 
to review it, answering any questions to the best of your 
ability. Make sure they understand the scoring being 
used, answer any last minute questions, and then be 
gin the scenario, noting the time when you do so. 

TIME: The players have up to 3 hours (EXACTLY, un 
less an extension is granted by the Tournament Direc 
tor) to find and descend the stairs to the next level, at 
which point play ends. They may achieve their objec 
tive in less time, and may wander about the dungeon 
until that limit; but in any event, PLAY ENDS WHEN 
THEY GO DOWN THE STAIRS or at the end of 3 hours, 
whichever occurs sooner. Be sure the.players under 
stand this point. 

OBJECTIVES: The party is trying to (1) accumulate as 
much treasure and magic as possible, and (2) get down 
the stairs to level 2. 

PROCEDURES: Players should roll their own "to hit" 
rolls, damage, saving throws, surprise, and party initia 
tive (1 initiative roll per round, for the whole party). 
They will keep track of their own hit points, items pos 
sessed, spells carried and cast, and so forth. The DM 
will also keep track of spells cast and magical items & 
charges used, and will make all necessary rolls for the 
NPCsand monsters. Any player caught cheating in any 
manner will cause the entire team to be disqualified. 

SCORING: Use the treasure reference, circle or under 
line all items found. The party will get 1 point per tgp 
worth of treasure found, using DMG values forali mag 
ic items, as noted on the Tournament Scoring Sheet. 
Non-magical swords, armor, and standard supplies are 
NOT counted for score. The party may use up the items 
found without losing points acquired thereby (potions, 
for example), but must otherwise carry the items and 
treasure until the end of the round to count them as 
score; items and treasure "stashed" somewhere are 
NOT counted as kept. If the party is captured, all items 


and treasures are removed and not counted for score. 

In addition, the party gets 1,000 points per party 
member surviving at the end of the round, plus a 1,000 
point bonus for any member finding and descending 
the stairs down to level 2. 

DEBRIEFING: At the end of the round, fill out the DM 
SUMMARY sheet for the reference of the Tournament 
Director. Hand out one PLAYER SUMMARY sheet to 
each player, and collect them after they are filled out; 
put all the materials in the envelope, and turn in the 
complete package of the PLAYER SUMMARIES, the 
DM SUMMARY, and the TOURNAMENT SCORING 
sheet, making sure that the team number and DM's 
name are filled in on theoutsideof the envelope. 


DM's SUMMARY OFTHE SCENARIO BACKGROUND 


The 13th level illusionist Dutch has teamed up with 
the 7th level cleric Parlee in creating "good" slavery. 
They have hired a squad of fighters from local towns to 
act as guards, and have cleaned out an old dungeon, 
adapting it to their purposes. 

Parlee casts an animate dead spell on the bodies of 
human, demi-human and humanoid two-legged crea 
tures, turning them into zombies. Dutch casts a per 
manent Illusion on each, giving the appearance of a 
clean, neat, well-cared-for obedient semi-human slave. 
These useful creatures are known locally as "slinks". 
They are sold for 1,000-3,000 gp per hit point, and they 
are perfect slaves, requiring no care nor sleep. 

Together, the partners have discovered how to make 
amulets of control which affect the slinks. If a person is 
visibly wearing the same symbol as that on a slink's 
amulet, that person can command that slink. The 
amulet also modifies the effects of a cleric's Turning 
ability on these specially treated zombies; 

If Turned, a slink will merely stand paralyzed for 2d4 
rounds, after which the paralysis wears off. 

These amulets are not normally visible, being hidden 
under the illusion. All slinks in the complex are wearing 
amulets marked with the symbol of the complex. 

During a tournament, any attempts at dispelling a 
slink's permanent Illusion will have no effect. The ac 
tual AD&D(tm) chance for success, for a character of 7th 
level, is 38%. 

Note that killing a slink does not destroy the illusion; 
the dead slink will look paralyzed but alive. Thus, 
another animate dead spell will "cure the paralysis", 
reanimating the zombie and restoring all hit points lost. 


3 


Hydefl, Part 1 


SLINKS: AC:8, MV:6, HD:2, #AT:1. D:d8, N. Med; un 
dead, and therefore immune to sleep, charm, and hold 
spells. Available in small {hp 2-6), medium (hp 7-11), 
and large (hp 12-16) sizes. Turnable as zombies, with 
resulting paralysis instead of destruction or running, 
due to the amulet worn. Aslink will obey any command 
given by the wearer of the same symbol as that worn by 
the slink; thus, those in the complex will obey any of the 
guards. 

GUARDS: All guards are hired, and come from nearby 
towns. They will surrender if things go badly against 
them, but will hold off until one or two are dead, as they 
have been working here for about a year and are well 
treated and paid. None of them know much about the 
complex, other than the fact that visitors come and go, 
sometimes leaving with a slink. They do know that the 
slinks are valuable, and will not endanger them need 
lessly. Each guard wears the same outfit (plate & 
shield), emblazoned with the symbol of the complex: 



DISBELIEF: Any character may attempt to disbelieve 
what is happening at any time. The attempt will take the 
entire round; no movement, spells, combat, or any 
thing else is possible during this action. The DM rolls, 
then announces that the character still believes It (un 
less specified otherwise in the encounter description). 
If the disbelieved thing is actually real, the character 
automatically fails any saving throwsapplicable. 

DOORS: All normal doors are wood with metal rein 
forcements, 8' high, 4' wide, and locked. If two thieves 
consecutively try to open a lock, the lock will be picked; 
otherwise roll normally. An unlocked door may be 
opened easily and quietly (unless the description 
states otherwise). A locked door may be forced nor 
mally, the DM rolling the "open doors" chance. 

SECRET DOORS: No secret doors may be found "in 
passing". If an elf or half-elf looks fora secret door in an 
area where one exists, the secret door will be found (no 
roll necessary). Other characters have normal chances, 
as given on the character guide, and the DM always 
rolls for the attempt. 

LIGHT: Unless noted otherwise (such as in area #11), 
all rooms and corridors are lit by torches in sconces, 
about 30' apart. 


Standard Abbreviations (used throughout) 


Money: 

cp copper pieces 

sp silver pieces 

ep electrum pieces 

gp gold pieces 

pp platinum pieces 


Gems: Roman numerals 

X lOgp value 

L 50gp value 

C lOOgp value 

D 500gp value 

M 1,000gp value 


General: 


Spells: 


Size: 


N, CE, etc. 

Alignment 

C 

casting time 

AC 

Armor Class 

R 

range 

M 

Movement rate 

DR 

duration 

HD 

Hit dice 

s 

segments 

hp 

hit points 

r 

rounds 

#AT 

D 

Number of Attacks 

Damage 

T 

turns 

MR 

STS 

Magic Resistance (for an 11th level 
saving throw vs. spells (on d20) 

caster) 


THACO 

roll (on d20) needed to hit AC 0. NOTE: this always includes strength 
bonuses "to hit", but never magical bonuses. 

THAC5 

"THACO" but for AC 5, as certain classes (particularly magic-users) have 
poor chances to hit. 

Sm 

Small Med Medium Lg 

Large 



4 





Hydell, Part 1 


START 


The party will have no encounters on the way to the 
dungeon. As they top a hill, heading northeast, the 
castle will be seen in the distance. One large pair of 
double doors is visible in the middle of the south wall; 
no other doors can be seen during the approach. There 
is a normal door in the adjacent east wall, easily seen if 
the party reconnoiters. 

The outer walls measure 350' long by 230' wide, and 
are 80' high; they are 10' thick. There are no towers. 
Inside, there is a huge bar fastening the large (5' thick, 
20' high) double doors shut, which cannot even be 
lifted by the characters; however, a knock spell wilt 
cause it to fall on the ground, after which the doors may 


be opened easily. 

The small eastern outer door is locked, and the latch 
is trapped with a glyph of warding {14 points of electri 
cal damage, save vs. spells for 7), but will open easily 
after the lock is picked. If any character casts a dispel 
magic on the glyph, it will be dispelled without explod 
ing (no roll necessary). Remember that if two thieves 
try to pick the lock, the lock will open automatically; 
but any attempt at picking the lock will trigger the 
glyph. The inner door is locked but not trapped. 

A clean, mown grassy area is atl that fills the shell of 
the castle. Five normal doors are visible, one in each 
corner of the rectangular area and the one in the east 
wall. All are locked, but none aretrapped. They all lead 
to a five foot length of 10' square corridor, at which 
point a spiral staircase, cut out of the rock foundation, 
leads to the first level. 



5 














p 


Hydell, Part 1 


KEY TO LEVEL 1 


1. WELCOME: The 10' square corridor goes as far as 
the party can see. When a living creature reaches 
point A, 50' from the base of the stairs, a programmed 
Illusion (described hereafter) is triggered; it will last 
for 13 rounds. START COUNTING ROUNDS! 

At the end of each paragraph marked with an 
asterisk (*), the DM should check for the party's ac 
tions. The "devil's" Armor Class and Magic Resist 
ance are included so you can fooi the party effective 
ly. Also see DM NOTES FOR THIS ENCOUNTER at 
the end of #2 (hereafter). 

The Illusion: A 30' long section of wall ahead glows 
briefly and disintegrates into dust. The sounds of 
battle are heard within: swords clashing, bows twang 
ing, shouts, and so forth.* 

(If anyone is brave enough to approach and look 
into the newly exposed area just after the wall disinte 
grates, go to room #2 hereafter. Otherwise, continue) 
Suddenly an explosion is heard, and a burst of 
flame blossoms into the corridor, scorching the wall 
opposite the opening. The sounds of battle die down, 
but continue, something is roaring.* 

Four human archers, their full plate armor burnt 
and torn, back out into the corridor, firing at some 
thing as they go. They glance at the party, but con 
tinue their desperate fight; however, another burst of 
fire envelopes them [and possibly party members, if 
any are at that point, for 13 points of damage; save vs. 
spells for 7 points], and they go down in flames.* 
There is a brief lull, deadly quiet; approaching 
footsteps are heard.* 

A 9* tall, red, devilish figure [horned devil: AC:-5, 
MR: 50%] steps into the corridor, looking at the 
bodies. It looks up and sees your party, and starts 
toward you, grinning in anticipation of more car 
nage.* 

2. CLOSEUP: You see a 30' square room, bounded on 
the east and west sides by north-south corridors (like 
the one you are in). Stone barriers, each 10' long, 3' 
high, and 2' wide, extend from the north and south 
walls halfway into the room, leaving a 10' wide gap in 
the middle. A door is in the middle of the far wall. 

Another adventurous party has apparently run 
afoul of the 9' tall, red devilish figure [horned devil] in 
this room; most members of the ill-fated party - all 
their spell casters, at least - now lie dead in various 
parts of the room. A glowing gem on the floor, appar 
ently the recipient of a continual light spell, illumi 
nates the area all too well. 

Four fighters are crouched behind the stone bar 
riers, firing their bows at the devil, as it delivers a fatal 
blow to the last survivor in its immediate vicinity. As 
two arrows strike it, the devil roars and gestures; a 



burst of flame erupts from its fingertips, blasting all 
the archers [as well as the observing party members; 
see # 1, above, hr details ]. 


The door opposite opens, and three more fight 
ers rush out, their crossbows at ready. [See area #3, be 
low. If these guardsmen can see any party members 

- and give the players an opportunity to duck or hide 

- they will fire the crossbows at them repeatedly until 
engaged. If the party members refreaf, the guards 
men will wait until the illusion is over before ad 
vancing.] 

The archers pause; they rise, still firing, and back 
out of the room through the disintegrated wall. They 
fall dead from another blast of fire in the next round. 


DM Notes For This Encounter 

The devil will move to engage the party. It will only 
proceed, however, to the limit of the illusion: point B, 
10' from the base of the stairs. If allowed to attack, the 
devil will not manage to hit anyone, though it will realis 
tically roar and swing with gusto. Remember that the 
illusion will end 13 rounds after the initial triggering, 
but unless someone's counting, only a vague idea of 
the duration ["over a turn"] will be obtained. The ''dev 
il" will disappear after 12 rounds, in a cloud of smoke; 
the other elements of the illusion will disappears round 
later. 

DISBELIEF: Characters will not be able to successfully 
disbelieve the illusion until someone casts a spell with 
visible effect at the devil (such as a web), or hits the 
devil with a weapon or missile. In either case, the devil 
will be seen to walk through the magic effect, or the 
blow will have no effect; a player announcing a disbe 
lief attempt thereafter will automatically disbelieve 
successfully, becoming immune to any damage from 
the illusion. 

NOTE that the three guards from the guardroom (area 
#3, below) will support with crossbow fire if real intrud 
ers are sighted. They will keep up missile fire until 
engaged. If the party retreats out of theirsight, they will 
nof follow until the illusion is over, if two of them are 


a 


Hydell, Part 1 


slain, the third will surrender and cooperate. {See 
GUARDS, page 4.) 

3. WARNINGS: On the wall of the corridor, about 4' up, 
there is a sign to each side of the 30' gap where the 
entry illusion occurs. Written in common for visitors 
and to remind new guards, it reads: 

DO NOT ENTER AREA AHEAD ON (*) 
DANGER - DEATH - ILLUSIONS 
STAY IN CORRIDOR 

(*) The sign specifies right or left, as applicable. 

4. GUARDROOM: Three guards are stationed here; all 
are familiar with the illusion, and will take no damage 
from it. They have specific instructions to inspect area 
#1 and the entry corridor about 5 minutes after the 
first noises are heard. They are to slay all intruders 
BUT take prisoners if convenient, lock items and 
persons found into this guardroom, and then report 
the situation to the nearest Jailor (room #7). 

GUARDS: Human Fighters, Level 2, AC:2 (plate 
& shield), hp:16,14,12, THAC0:20, STs:17, N; 
armed each with cocked heavy crossbow (d4+1, 
automatic initiative), halberd (dIO), and long- 
sword (d8). They usually each fire one shot at a 
spell caster (if identifiable as such) and then 
drop the crossbow, drawing the halberd for 
melee. Each possesses 20gp worth of various 
coins, and one has a key to the guardroom. 

The guardroom is 30' square, and contains a ta 
ble and 3 chairs (all wooden), a cot, and a weapons 
rack with 3 extra longswords, 2 pole arms, and 1 
dagger (none magical). There is a potion of healing 
hidden under the mattress of the cot. 



5. CELLS: Each of these doors is heavy and thick, with 
exceptionally large, tough locks and small barred 
windows. All are dark and dingy; the residents are as 
follows: 

a. 2 halflings, male and female, hp 6, 3 

b. 2 dwarf males, hp 11, 5 

c. 1 human male, hp 4 

d. empty 

All residents are stupefied from their long impri 
sonment, and can be of absolutely no help to the party. 
Each has a movement rate of 1" and, if forced to move 
around, a 50% chance per round of collapsing and 
passing out. In short, they will hamper the party if 
rescued. 

6. CELLS: As #5, above; residents are: 

a. 1 dwarf female, hp 10 

b. empty 

c. 2 human females, hp 5, 4 

d. 1 halfling male, hp 6 

7. JAILOR: This man [Fighter Level 3, AC:1 (plate & 
shield), Dex 15, hp:25, THAC0:18, STs:16, LE] is the 
supervisor of the entry guards as well as the keeper of 
the prisoners in the cells (#5 or #6 above); he reports 
to the Captain (room #18). He is accompanied by 2 
slinks (see below). The door to his office is identical to 
those of the cells. 

Four heavy crossbows hang in the office near the 
door. When the entrance illusion is triggered, he will 
hear the noise, and will keep an eye on the hallway. If 
any visible intruders enter the corridor, he will cock 
and load all the crossbows. If an intruder approaches, 
he will fire 2 crossbow bolts per round (since they are 
readied) at visible magic-users or clerics; otherwise, 
he will hold his fire until someone peers through the 
slot in the door. 

If he is ready with a crossbow and someone is 
stupid enough to peer in, he gains +10on his chances 
to hit for that shot, and inflicts quintuple the normal 
amount of damage (therefore 5d4+5) with it. 

Attempts at return fire will miss the Jailor unless 
madewithin 10' ofthedoor, and then mustbe madeat 
AC -8 due to cover. He is vulnerable to spells, espe 
cially those with visual effects, as he is watching the 
corridor carefully; but he is not a visible target for 
spells (such as magic missile) unless the caster peers 
through the slot in the door. If someone nears the 
door with a missile weapon, he will close the window 
and take cover behind his desk. If wounded, and if he 
has the chance, he will drink his potion of extra heal 
ing in his desk. 

He has 2 slinks with him as slaves (AC:8, MV:6, HD:2, 
hp:11, 8, #AT:1, D:d8, N, Med; see description 
on page 4). 

The Jailor carries 50gp worth of coins but no 
other valuables. His unlocked, untrapped desk holds 
notes on the guard changes (every 4 hours); keys for 


7 


Hydell, Part 1 


the cells, this room, and the guardroom (#3); and one 
potion o/extra healing (unless he has used it during 
the encounter). It also contains an old scroll case, in 
which he keeps a piece of parchment inscribed with 
his favorite dirty limericks. The case also contains 
one Cgem, which is stuck in the bottom; it can be 
easily seen by looking in, however, after the parch 
ment is removed, and will fall out with a bit of shaking. 

8. MYSTERY: A 10' diameter round black pillar stands 
in the center of this octagonal room. The surface of 
the pillar seems to be made of snakes, of all shapes 
and sizes. Nobody knows what the pillar means or 
what it was once used for; it is harmless and non- 
magical. 

9. UNUSED ROOM: The doors to this 30' square room 
are not locked. The floor is dusty, and a path leads 
from the entrance to the door directly opposite. The 
door is old and rusty; if opened (an "open doors" roll 
is necessaryjthe opener will be surprised by 2 huge 
spiders [AC:6, MV; 18, HD:2+2, hp:15,11, #AT:1, D:d6 
& poison (+1 onsave),THAC0:16,STs:17, N,Sm] who 
will jump out and get one free attack. 

The false door on the wall opposite the oneto the 
spider lair is an old trap. It can be detected as one 
normally, either by thief or spell. It will open easily, 
but arrows will flyout to strike the opener: the number 
striking is equal to the AC of the opener not counting 
dexterity or shield (for example, if an AC 6thief opens 
it, 8 will hit). As the trap is old and weakened, howev 
er, each arrow will only do 1 point of damage. 

10. SPIDER LAIR: Through the open door, the party 
can only see solid web with tunnels In it. There are 3 
more huge spiders [hp:9,13,16] in the web, which will 
only attack if a party member falls. If so, they will 
eagerly swarm out and will all attack one other victim 
(a "3 on 1" tactic). 

The web can only be removed by fire, but if burnt 
away, this old 10' cubical room will be seen to be 
empty except for 6 small dead young spiders [hp 1@, 
will never attack], a useless rusted mace, a few bones, 
and a sack (which will be burning if the web is burnt 
away). Fast action here can save some or all of the 
contents of the bag: if anyone had water at ready 
before the web was burnt, all will be saved; otherwise 
only the coins and gems will remain. 

In the bag are 20cp, lOsp, 8ep, 4gp, 2Lgems, and 
[if not burned up] a cleric's scroll (loose, not in a scroll 
case) of neutralize poison and cure critical wounds. 

11. HIDDEN DANGERS: This room and nearby 
corridors are not lit by the usual torches, though 
empty sconces line the halls. There are 3 shadows 
[MV:12, HD:3+3, hp:25, 21, 17, #AT:1, D:d4+1 plus 
strength drain (1 point per touch, lasts 2d4 turns), 
THAC0:16, STs:16, CE, Med; 90% invisible unless 


light used, in which case they will retreat to #12, be 
low] lurking herein, which will not bother anyone 
wearing the symbol of the complex OR anyone es 
corted by such an authorized person. They are in the 
service of the cleric Parlee (L7 Cleric, in dungeon 
level 2). 

12. SHADOW LAIR: The door to this room is locked, 
trapped with darts (for 6 points of damage) and a 
magical glyph of warding (14 points electrical dam 
age, save vs. spells for 7 points). The shadows have 
accumulated 200gp and 100pp. which lie scattered, 
untrapped, and unguarded on the floor of the room. 

13. REMAINS: This musty, long-unused room holds 
the scant remains of a few unidentifiable creatures. 
Hidden under the refuse, a potion of healing is left, 
along with 2 Cgems. 

14. WARMUP: Three guards [12 Fighters, AC:2 (plate & 
shield), hp:17, 14, 11, THACO:20, STS:17, N; long- 
sword, dagger] are playing cards here, sitting around 
a table. They are supposed to go on duty in the guard- 
room (#4) in 20 minutes. They each have 20gp in 
coins, one has a key to the guardroom, and the other 
has a potion of healing. 

15. ARMORY: Normal weapons of all types are stored 
here for the use of the guards. In a locked cabinet at 
the rear are 5 magical arrows +1. The captain has the 
only key, but the cabinet may be forced open with an 
"open doors" roll (but with a +1 penalty on the roll). 

16. SHOWCASE: This area is where prospective buy 
ers are brought to examine slinks and negotiate pur 
chases. Several are on display, but only a nominal 
guard is posted, as no visitors are expected today. 
Each room has 4 padded chairs, sconces with lit 
torches in them, and a small platform V high and 4' 
square (for displaying the slinks). If attacked, guards 
will cry for help (automatically heard by the other 
guards in the area) but will not command the slinks to 
attack unless 2 or more guards have died (the slinks 
are quite valuable). All the guards expect to be re 
lieved in 2 hours. 

16a. There are two long purple sofas, 3 chairs and a 
table (all wooden) in this 30' x 35' lounge. A cheap 
chandelier hangs from the center of the 20' high ceil 
ing. The chandelier is bulky, fragile, and worth about 
20gp, but 6 Cgems are among the worthless ones 
decorating it. There are 30gp worth of assorted coins 
under the cushions of the sofas. No one is around. 

16b. A single guard [LI Ftr, AC:2 (plate & shield), 
hp:9, THAC0:20, STs:17, longsword & dagger] sits 
dozing on a chair around the corner, not visible from 
the door. He is dozing unless the party makes exces- 


Hydell, Part 1 


sive noise while approaching {such as forcing the 
door). He has I5gp worth of coins in one pocket, and 
1 Cgem set into the hilt of his sword. 

Two small slinks [AC:8, MV:6, HD:2, hp:6, 4, 
THAC0:16, STs:17, N, Med] sit at his feet, also out of 
sight of the doorway. 

16c. Empty except for the standard items (see #16, 
above). 

16d. Two guards [L2 Ftrs, AC:1 {plate & shield, Dex 
15), hp:25, 18, THACO:20, STs:17, N; longsword, 
longbow, dagger] are here guarding 5 medium slinks 
[AC:8, MV:6, HD:2, hp:7, 8, 9, 10, 11, #AT:1, D:d8, 
THAC0:16, STs:17, N, Med], Each guard has 40gp 
worth of coins, and one has a Cgem. The guards will 
fight to the death, if necessary, but know little about 
the complex. 

16e. Two guards [L2 Ftrs, as #16d above in all re 
spects] are here guarding 4 large slinks [AC:8, MV:6, 
HD:2, hp:12, 13, 14, 15, #AT:1, D:d8, THACQ:16, 
STs:17, N, Med], Each guard has 50gp worth of coins 
and 3 Lgems. 

17. ALARM: Each of the doors to this room has a mov 
able sliding window in the center, 4" high and 8" long. 
The room is 20' high and lit, as normal, by torches in 
sconces. There are 4 shriekers here (AC:7, MV:1, 
hp:15@), one in each corner of this 30' square room. 
They will scream if there is movement within 10' or if 
they hear the screams of another shrieker; they ignore 
light and the opening of doors. They may be quieted if 
the proper command ("shaddap," known to all the 
guards) is spoken. If attacked, they will try to flee, and 
will not stop screaming until slain. 

The shrieker noise is a common occurence in the 
area, and the near-by guards (room #18, below) will 
ignore it unless it continues for 3 rounds or more. If it 
continues, the Adjutant will open the slot in the door 
to see what is going on. 

18. OFFICE: Read this description thoroughly before 
starting. If the door to this room is tried, start counting 
rounds. 

The door to the room is locked; the handle is 
trapped with a poisoned sliver (save vs. poison or 
die!), which can be easily and silently found and re 
moved (no rolls necessary, if they look for traps). 

The Captain and his Adjutant are sitting at the 
desk, talking about the torture of the prisoners in the 
cells (their conversation can be heard by someone 
listening at the door). If not alerted by the shriekers 
(see #17, above), they will be alerted by any attempts 
at opening the door or picking the lock. The Captain's 
pet giant badger is asleep in the northeast corner. The 
locked weapon racks on the east and west walls each 
contain 1 magical [+1 ] glowing longsword, 3 nonmag- 


ical longswords, and 4 heavy crossbows with quarrels. 

If they are alerted, the Adjutant will secure a 
heavy bar (on the wall in the north alcove) in place 
across the door, while the Captain wakes the badger 
and gets his wand of paralyzation from the desk. They 
will then cock and load all 8 crossbows, stacking them 
near the door. 

They will be ready with the wand in 1 round; with 
the wand and two crossbows in 2 rounds; and will 
ready 2 more crossbows per round thereafter. 

While barred, the door cannot be opened except 
by a knock spell or the combined efforts of 2 or more 
characters with super strength (18/01 or greater). The 
spell will open it immediately; forcing it will take 2 
rounds. 

If the party tries to force the door, the two ene 
mies will then reopen the slot and fire; if not disturbed, 
they will continue loading crossbows until all are 
ready, and then open the slot, They will both fire at the 
same target, and at a magic-user first. The Captain 
will then alternate rounds, using a s pell (as given 
under CAPTAIN, below), then the wand, then a spell, 
etc. (Note that quietly removing the trap and then 
using a knock spell will catch them without cross 
bows, but the Captain will go for his wand in the first 
round. In this case, the Adjutant will engage the party 
to defend his Captain, using his +1 halberd. 

CAPTAIN: 1/2 Elf Ftr/MU L4/4, AC:-1 (plate & shield 
both +1, Dex 15), hp:26, THAC0:18/17 (missile/ 
melee; Str 17 for +1/+1), STs:12, LN, Med; 30% resis 
tant to sleep & charm; wand paralyzation 12 charges, 
longsword +2, dagger +1. 

Spells: LI: detect magic (CIs, R6, DR8r) 

magic missile (CIs, R10,2 @ d4+1) 
sleep (CIs, R7, DR20r) 
unseen servant (CIs, R3, DR10T) 
L2: scare (C2s, R1, DR3 d4r) 
web (C2s, R2, DR8T) 

STRATEGY: Spells will be cast in this order, for as 
long as possible, alternating with shots from the 
wand: web, scare, magic missile, sleep. He will use 
them to his best advantage; if the web catches the 
party, he will use the wand until they all seem to be 
paralyzed. 

ADJUTANT: Human Ftr L3, AC:0 (plate, +1 shield, 
Dex 15), hp:25, THAC0:18/16 (missile/melee; 
Str 18/80 for +2/+4), STs:16, LN, Med; halberd +1, 
shortsword +1. 

The giant badger (AC:4, MV:6, HD:3, hp:19, #AT:3, 
D:d3/d3/d6, THAC0:16, STs: 16, N, Med), once arou 
sed, will attack anyone entering the room except a 
guard. If its keepers are slain, it can be quieted down 
by a gnome (speak with burrowing mammals), and 
will want to join the party! It misses its outdoor home, 
and will fight for and obey the gnome, hoping to 
eventually get out. 


9 


Hydell, Part 1 


There is a 4' tall straw basket behind the desk; it 
contains a green gooey substance {easily mistakable 
for green slime) which is food for the shambling 
mound {#20, below). 

In the Captain's desk are: potions of extra healing, 
healing, heroism, plant control; 72pp, and 1 Cgem. 
The desk also contains keys for all the doors on this 
level, each clearly marked, and extensive notes on 
guard changes, pay records, the size of the guard (14 
members), thesize of the dungeon (3 levels), referen 
ces to "the cleric Parlee" and "the boss'', who is ap 
parently an illusionist. [More details on the informa 
tion are given in the preface to the key to the lower 
levels in round two of the tournament]. 

19. STAIRS: The door to these descending stairs Is 
securely triple-locked [and cannot be picked, in a 
tournament]. The Captain (room #18, above) has a 
key. 

20. REINFORCEMENT: The Captain's "ace in the 
hole", used when the complex is seriously invaded 
(and, luckily, which he hasn't had warning enough to 
release, this time) is the shambling mound kept in this 
room. It is very friendly to the cleric Parlee and the 
boss, and will obey the Captain's commands. 

The shambling mound [AC:0, MV:6, HD:8, hp:35, 
#AT:2. D:2d8/2d8,THAC0:12, STs:13, N, Lg; immune 
to fire, 1/2 damage from cold and from all blows, 2 
hits = strangle in 2d4r, 1/2 damage from cold and 
from all blows, lightning causes 1HD growth] is 
cooperating with the residents of the complex as 
long as it is fed and allowed to collect treasure. It has 
3,000cp, 1,000ep, 2 Dgems, a potion of fire resist - 
ance, and a scroll of 4 magic-user spells (written at 
9th level ability): sleep, magic missile, clairvoyance, 
conjure earth elemental. 

It cannot be seen through the slot in the door. If 
the door is opened, it will shamble towards the open 
er, expecting to be fed. If not fed immediately, it will 
fly into a rage and attack. It will batter through the 
door in 2 rounds unless it has been relocked. 

If released, It will wander through the first level 
and attack anyone encountered until it is fed; or if it 
kills and eats any 3 persons, it will return to its lair. 


Here Ends Part 1 
of The Investigation of Hydell 


THE INVESTIGATION OF HYDELL, 
PART 2 

BACKGROUND: After penetrating the illusions and 
guards of the complex (seethe BACKGROUND of Part 
1), your intrepid adventurers have seized the office of 
the Captain of the Guard after a tough fight. The rest of 
the complex has apparently not been alerted; the Cap 
tain's shambling mound has been destroyed. 

Many of you now have magical weapons and potions 
to help you to continue the investigation. Keys and 
records of the complex have been found in the Cap 
tain's desk, along with a partial map of the next level. 

The map shows the locations of the chapel, barracks, 
and a few other areas. With its help, you should be able 
to avoid the guards and get right to the heart of the 
complex. It seems that a high level Illusionist is running 
things, with the aid of his apprentice and acleric known 
as Parlee. The entire operation can be shut down if 
those three characters are captured or eliminated. In 
summary (some of the following you may already 
know): 

Your Cleric can paralyze the slinks by Turning them. 
You can command the slinks if you are wearing the 
symbol of the complex; conflicting orders cause the 
slink to be paralyzed (as if Turned). 

The leaders of the complex are very probably Evil. 
Most of the Guards are Neutral. 

You must "walk the true path" to get into the chapel, 
according to the Guards. 

The Boss has a pet animal (a large cat) and an 
Apprentice. 

YOUR OBJECTIVE: Capture or slay the boss, his ap 
prentice, and the cleric Parlee. 

SCORING: You will earn points for treasure found and 
kept, magic items found (whether used or not), and 
bonus scores for achieving each part of the objective. 

NOTES FOR THE DM 


The same notations and procedures are used as in 
part 1. Please refer to the DM NOTES for that section 
for the background and operations of the complex as 
well as details for DISBELIEVING and other procedures. 

The complex is always occupied, and serves the 
complete needs of the inhabitants. Barracks, residen 
ces, storage areas, and a chapel are herein. In part 2 of 
this tournament, the players explore Levels 2 and 3, 
hopefully avoiding the guards and striking quickly at 
the cleric Parlee (#43-47), the apprentice illusionist 
Tuke (#22), and Dutch, the boss himself (#59). 


10 















,r 

















































































- - 









































* 































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































J=L 

, i 

:el 

r=L 

fi 

a 

LJ 



























i r 


1_r 


i i- 







J - y 






















1 






C 

3 



tr 























3 


s 






--] 
























.pL 


























| 

'c 

i c 

! c 

] 


t _r 

-fTL 


l r~ 



1 J' 

C 

] 





























U-T 





j - 

l 
















¦R. 






-G- 




JG 




1 

L r 

i 

r 

£ 














{ - 1 














ZD 


n 

3 






























¦ -i 

















Q 





t-4 


LOj 

ini 

LDj 

in r 

M 

\ 



-r 

b 





















L 

3 1 

P UL 

- rmt 

u* 

t£L 

P UL 

u* 1 

r 

1., 


o 

r 

"i 



















c 

3_i| 

Mil 

Jli 

fcOI 


in r 

riii 

A 

I' 



~E; 

r -i 

3- 





















f ul\ 

U 11 

'Ll L 

Li* 

f ui 


/ 




tr 






















































































































































































































































-M 








u 

• i 
















Ti 

4 

yt 

4 


9> 

t'A 

L'F 






w 

U 

, 1 






S = 

Stc 

>rac 

je 





0 

ne 

Sqi 

ja^ 

e = 

10 

Fee 

t 





x 

:$v* 


VC 

) 





Gf Gi 

iarr 

Js 




11 











































































































































































































































Hydell, Part 2 


DEFENSES: If the party lets guards or other personnel 
get away, word will reach Dutch or Parlee of the attack. 
They will unite in full battle regalia, accompanied by 10 
guards and 10 large slinks, and find and attack the 
party. If this occurs, just do your best; it should not 
happen in normal tournament play. If it does, examine 
the descriptions of Parlee and Dutch carefully, so as to 
be familiar with their items and spells. 

ILLUSIONARY SCRIPT: There are various places in 
the complex where key words are written using the 3rd 
level llluslonary scripts pel I. This can be designated for 
a certain reader, class, or whatever (specified in each 
case); if any other being reads the script, he or she is 
confused for a base 5-20 TURNS (TJ in the tourna 
ment) MINUS his or her level (hit dice). This will delay 
the party, but in most cases a room near-by may be 
used as a hiding place until the character recovers. A 
dispel magic will automatically remove this effect. 
Thus, a 5th level unauthorized reader will be confused 
for 6turns. While confused, the player should roll 1d10 
each ROUND (unless 1 is rolled; see below) and role- 
play the results as given hereafter: 

1 Wander away (unless prevented) for 1 turn 
2-6 Stand confused for 1 round 
7-0 Attack the nearest creature for 1 round 

The player should be informed of these effects, as the 
character musf act accordingly; and it speeds play if 
the player rolls. The party may wish to wait until the 
effect passes; if they do so in a corridor, they will be 
discovered by 3 guards, who will flee to inform Parlee 
or Dutch. If the party finds a room to wait in, no encoun 
ters will occur (other than that for the room used). 

KEY TO LEVEL 2 

21. STORAGE ROOM: This is a typical storage room. 
Rations, water, and miscellaneous items are stored 
here; there are no weapons, armor, nor valuables. 

22. LAIR: The door is locked, if it is opened by other 
than an illusionist, a programmed illusion immediate 
ly appears (and lasts for 13r) of a 10' square corridor, 
30' long and ending in a door. This illusory door 
cannot be opened. 

This lair is the room of Tuke, the aide to Dutch 
(the boss). If the illusion begins, he will watch the 
party proceed up the illusory corridor (as if one-way 
glass from his side). In preparation, he will cast a blur 
spell [AC -4/-2, ST +1] and will have his bodyguards 
get ready to attack the party while he moves to be near 
the real door. 

On cue, the guards will attack by first shooting 
arrows (automatic hits on the 2 rear characters for 
3hp @) and then engage the middle of the party 


(charging through the illusory walls to do so). Tuke 
will then cast a wall of fog so they can escape. When 
the fog is cast, all within the room attack at -4 (as if 
blinded), and the guards can easily disengage and 
run if they are still alive. However, the party can then 
easily catch them in the corridor if they act fast (guard 
movement rate = 6"). Unless slain, Tuke will oast Invis 
ibility and get away to warn Dutch (not Parlee). 
TUKE: IL L6 AC:0 (Bracers ACS, Cloak +2, Dex 
18), hp:19, THAC0:18, STs:10, LE. 

Spells: 

color spray (CIs, R6) 
audible glamer (C5s, R12, DR18r) 
phantasmal force (CIs, R12,10"sq) 
wall of fog (CIs, R3, DR6r+2d4r) 
blur (C2s, DR9r) 
invisibility ( x2, C2s) 
non-detection (C3s, DR6T) 

GUARDS: L2 Ftrs, AC:1 (plate, +1 shield @), hp:18, 
16, THAC0:16, STs:17, N. 

23. STORAGE: As #21, above. 

24. REVERSAL: This series of 20' long corridors is 
magical and bounded by stone doors at each end. 
Only one door will open at a time, even to a knock 
spell. If a door is held open, the next will not open until 
the first is closed. Users must go east to exit west, and 
go west to exit east (displacement occurs at door 
way). The guards do not generally know of this area, 
except for Tuke's bodyguards. The DM should take 
care to keep track of where the users are! 

25. EMPTY ROOM. 

26. CELLS: Similar to those on the first level, these cells 
contain humanoids who will only slow the party 
down if rescued, except for "F" (hereafter). The 
residents are: 

A. 2 halflings, both males, hp 5,4 

B. Empty 

C. Human male, hp 8 

D. 2 dwarves, both female, hp 9, 8 

E. Empty 

F. 1/2 elf male: This cleric/fighter/magic-user is as 
dirty and worn as the rest, and will only groan at first. 
However, if the party offers to cure his damage, he will 
reveal that he is in fairly good shape (hp:16) and will 
offer his services. He still knows the spells cure light 
wounds (x3), slow poison, and magic missile, and 
remembers but needs components for enlarge, sleep, and 
Invisibility. If loaned the components, he will want to 
become invisible after helping the party and try to 
make his own escape. 

27. BARRACKS: Bunks and armoiresfor4menare in 
this sparsely furnished room. There are no locks nor 
valuables. 


12 


Hydell, Part 2 


28. LOCKERS: Five metal boxes, each 5' tall and 4' 
wide, are attached to each other to form a row along 
the west wall of this room. Their faces are numbered 
1-5, and all have locks hanging from the handles. #1-4 
are used by the guardsmen residing in #27; each con 
tains 20sp, 18ep, 30gp, 12pp, and ICgem [total 200gp 
value], signed employment contracts and other im 
portant documents, and full dress and battle outfits. 

Locker #5, the farthest to the north, looks the 
same as the others but has not been opened for some 
time, and its lock is too rusted to pick. It can be broken 
open by "open doors", but with +1 penalty to the roll. 
Within is an old sack with "3 Mgems" (2 Mgems and a 
red loan stone for +1 Dex), 48gp, and 40sp. 

29. LOCKERS: As #28, above, but numbered 6-10 and 
used by the residents of #30, below. Locker #10, the 
farthest to the south, contains a potion of polymorph 
and a wand of lightning (3 charges; the command 
word for the shock function [IdIO] is inscribed on it, 
and will cause it to glow and sizzle with the charge; 
the other command word is long lost). 


the barracks area. Sergeant Wiggins [L4 Ftr, AC:4 
(chainmail +1), hp:30, THAC0:17 (longsword +1), 
STs:16, N] will foolishly fight to the death if attacked, 
His room is nicely furnished but littered with his mem 
orabilia of old campaigns. Hidden in a cigar case are3 
Cgems, and one of his 30 medals in a display case is 
fashioned of pure platinum (500gp value); a potion of 
extra healing is behind some books on a shelf. 

33. STOCKPILE: The door is locked. This room ischilly 
and smells slightly odd. The corpses of 20 
humanoids (all the various character races plus 1 
ogre) are laid out here neatly in 5 rows of 4. Each is 
atop a stone block 4' high, 4' wide, and 8' long. These 
"blocks" are hollow, containing brown mold 
colonies. If touched, the cold blocks will do 2d8 points 
of damage (save vs. death for 1/2 damage, including 
Dexterity reaction bonus) to the intruder. The bodies 
show the wounds of death but are well preserved in 
this environment. 

33a. STAIRS: The secret door here leads to the narrow 
stairs down to Dungeon Level Three. 


30. BARRACKS: Bunks and armoires for 4 men are in 
this sparsely furnished room. There are no locks nor 
valuables. 

31. BARRACKS: There are beds, chests, and armoires 
for 10 men in this large, stark room, but only 6 current 
ly reside (as can be seen if the beds are inspected). 
There are no valuables other than in the chests, which 
each contain various items (similar to the lockers, 
above) plus 200 misc. coin, total lOOgp value apiece. 

32. SERGEANT: This champion of blind obedience in 
the guard corps is old and fat, and wilt be surprised if 
encountered. His job is to train recruits and supervise 


34. ROGUES: Two slinks have overcome theircontrols 
and have hidden in this forgotten labyrinth. They have 
evolved (somehow) into ghouls (AC:6, HD:2, hp:15, 
12, #AT:3, D:d3/d3/d4 + paralysis, THAC0:16, 
STs:17, CE, Med), dining on the "cold cuts" nearby. 
They have accumulated a modest treasure, 
hidden in #35 (below). 

35. LAIR: The floor of this musty old closet is strewn 
with 400sp, 480gp, and 5 Cgems (total value 1,000gp). 
A small black 2" cube is under the trash in one corner, 
and easily overlooked; it does not radiate magic. 
However, in a 1" cubic hole in the center of this heavy 
lead box rests a cube of force. 



13 




Hydell, Part 2 


36. ANTECHAMBER: This is the 20' high entry hall (20' 
x 50') for the religious center of the complex. There 
are green circles painted on the floor, leading a 
curved path to the large double doors to the south. 
There are small writings to the left of each of the 
normal doors, on the north and east walls. They are 
readable 10' away, but are illusionary scripts under- 
standable by illusionists only (others reading are con 
fused, as the spell; see DM NOTES). Each says but a 
single word; they are actually the passwords for the 
glyphs of warding placed in front of each door 
(glyphs of blindness, save vs. spells negates). 

37. CHAPEL: The two large entry doors each have 
locks inset below the handles, and the cleric Parlee 
has the keys. They can be forced by a normal "open 
doors" roll, but this will make a lot of noise and cer 
tainly attract Parlee and her minions. This large 20' 
high chapel has pews, pillars, and altar of stone. The 
line of green circles splits 3 ways inside the doors, the 
paths leading up the center aisle and to each side and 
meeting in front of the altar. As worshippers proceed 
along the paths, they murmur certain "sacred chants" 
- actually the words for passing the glyphs of ward 
ing, as indicated by the outlined shaded areas at the 
foot of each aisle, in each corner of the room, and 
between each pair of pillars. (See map key for the 
effects of the glyphs). 

There is nothing in the room of any value, but a 
search will show that the altar is bloodstained and 
unholy (evilly aligned). The two normal doors on the 
south wall, to each side of the altar, are not locked and 
lead to small storage areas. 

38. STORAGE: This chapel storage room has dozens 
of packages of incense, ornate robes and candles, 
normal books, and other items. All of the 400 candles 
radiate magic, and one of them (identical in appear 
ance) is actually a wand of magic missiles, 40 charges, 
with the command word inscribed upon it. (If a defect 
magic, is used, the caster can pick out the wand, a 
stronger source of magic, in 4 rounds; but a cursory 
examination will reveal only numerous magical boxes. 

39. STORAGE: This area is the same as #38, above, 
except for the wand. It also contains padded boxes of 
vials full of holy and unholy water (24 of each). 

40. RESIDENCE: The new apprentice to the boss, Slad, 
has moved in here temporarily. It looks like a normal 
barracks but for only 1 person. Hidden in a shoe, 
among ordinary clothes, is a bag containing 4 Mgems. 
There are various illusionist spell components in a 
drawer. 

41. LOUNGE: This plush 30' square room has a table 
and chairs, 2 couches, a cupboard, and 4 small tables 
each with an oil lamp. The cupboard contains wine, 


serving glasses, 2 decks of cards, and a locked small 
chest containing lOOcp, 90sp, 50ep, 50gp, and 4pp 
(total value lOOgp); there are 50gp under the cushions 
of the couches. The normal door is locked, but the 2 
secret doors are not. 

42. DEN: A small shrine (east wall) dominates this 
plush room, which also contains shelves lined with 
normal books (north wall), a plush chair, and a small 
table with an oil tamp. A cupboard near the shrine 
contains religious paraphenalia of no value. 

43. BEDROOM: The cleric Parlee sleeps here but is 
currently out. A canopy bed, dressing table and mir 
ror, and large wardrobe indicate that Parlee is female. 
A long reinforced chest under the bed is locked and 
guarded by a glyph of warding (electricity, 14 points) 
and contains a staff of curing (16 charges, no com 
mand word noted) and several scroll cases. Each case 
holds a scroll of 1 spell, and the spells are protection 
from good, sanctuary, hold person, slow poison, ani 
mate dead, glyph of warding, curse, and neufra//ze 
poison. There is also a smalt bag with 20 Cgems. 

44. HALL: Four of Parlee's pets, two shriekers ("S", 
AC:7, HD:3, hp:13@) and two shrieker-like violet 
fungi ["F", AC:7, HD:3, hp:13@, #AT:2, D:Rot (save 
vs. poison negates), THAC0:16, STs:17, N, Sm] are 
stationed at the points indicated on the map. if 
alarmed, the shriekers' noises will warn Parlee and 
Slad (in #47, hereafter). If approached, the shriekers 
will not flee and the violet fungi will attack. 



45. RESERVES: The door is not locked. This bare room 
contains nothing but a reserve guard of 36 skeletons 
(AC:7, MV:12, HD:1, hp:4@, #AT:1, D:d6, N, Med; 1/2 
damage from edged weapons) animated by and loyal 
to Parlee, waiting at ready. They will attack anyone 
who opens the door (unless it is Parlee) and/or obey 
Parlee's commands. 

46. SECONDS: The door is not locked. This bare room 
is dark, covered by 2 continual darkness spells cen 
tered at different points. There are 8 shadows (AC:7, 
MV:12, HD:33, hp:17@, #AT:1, D:d4+1 & strength 
drain, THAC0:16, STs:16, CE, Med; undetectable in 
darkness) lurking herein, loyal to Parlee. They will 
mass near the door if it is opened, attacking the first 
person in by surprise (+4 to hit). They have no 
treasure. 


QOQ<pO{)Q(p OQQO o 0000 0000000 6 qoo oo ooo oo oooo oooooo o 


DM's Temple Detail 


SCALE 



DOUBLE DOORS 


-INpNESS-r- 


One Square = 7>k Feet 
4 Squares = 10' 


ooooo 


Pillar 


Path 


Pew 


Glyph 


(tm) (tm) Door 


Altar 


15 








































































































































































Hydell, Part 2 


47, STORAGE: There are food, water, and misc. reli 
gious items stored in this large room. A golden bell on 
a shelf (value 25gp) has just been retrieved by Parlee, 
who is here arguing with Slad the Trickster about 
employee training costs. If alerted, they will peek out 
the door first and take appropriate actions, throwing 
spells if the party is busy killing shriekers. Two slinks 
accompany them. 

SLAD: IL L3, AC:6, hp:12, STs: 12, LE; Dex 17, Cloak +2, 
dagger +1 (THAC5:16), 3 Dgems. 

Spells: 

audible glamer (C5s, R9, DR9r) 
phantasmal force (CIs, R9, 7 sq") 
blur (C2s, DR6r, new AC 2/4, ST+1) 

PARLEE: Cl L7, AC:5, hp:55, THAC0:16, STs:9, LE; 
studded leather +1, Dex 15; mace +1, ring plant con 
trol, potions of diminuation, extra healing, Invisibility, 
polymorph self. 

Spells: 

command (CIs, R1, DRIr) 

cure light wounds (x2, C5s, 1d8) 

sanctuary (C4s, DR9r) 

hold person (C5s, R6, DRIIr) 

resist fire (C5s, DR7T) 

silence 15T (C5s, R12, DR14r) 

slow poison (CIs, DR42T) 

speak with animals (C5s, R3, DR14r) 

animate dead (Cl r, R1) 

dispel magic (C6s, R6) 

prayer (C6s, R6, DR7r) 

tongues (C7s, DRIOr) 

SLINKS {2}: AC:8, hp:12@, #AT:1, D:d8; N 

STRATEGY: If alerted and if the party is unaware of 
their presence, Slad will put up the audible glamer of 
guards coming from the south, followed by a phantas~ 
mal force of the door opening and 6 guards loosing a 
volley of 6 arrows (4 hitting) and then engaging with 
swords. Parlee will cast a hold person at 2 party fight 
ers during the battle. The two will then gather stored oil 
and have it ready. If their presence is discovered, Slad 
will first cast a blur. Parlee will pour oil over Slad, cast a 
resist fire on him, and ignite the robes. He will try to 
make a run for it, doing 6 hp of damage to anyone he 
runs into (save vs. breath for V6 damage, no save if 
grappling), the fire lasting 5 rounds and leaving him 
naked. If he escapes, he will run downstairs to warn 
Dutch. Parlee will drink her potion of polymorph self 
and hide in #48 (below), changing form as often as 
advisable for the healing benefits (d12) involved. 

If surprised, they will have the slinks engage to allow 
them to cast blur and prayer, and Slad will engage 
before Parlee does (surrendering quickly). Parlee will 
fight until below lOhp, and then surrender. She will not 
reveal the existence of #48 (below) or its contents. 

48. HOARD: There are 3 continual darkness spells 
centered at the points indicated. Within the room are 10 


skeletons and 10 zombies, loyal to Parlee, who will not 
leave the room. They will attack anyone entering un 
less a bell is ringing in the room, in which case they will 
merely wander around. 

Skeletons: AC:7, MV: 12", HD:1. hp:5@, #AT:1. D:d6, 
THAC0:18, STs:17 

Zombies: AC:8, MV:6", HD:2, hp;10@, #AT:1, D:d8, 
THAC0:16, STs:17 

There are 6 large locked chests along the west and 
south walls of the room. Each is trapped with a glyph 
of warding (14 points of electrical damage). They 
contain: 

A. 5,000gp, potions fire resistance, extra healing, 
poison 

B. 5,000sp, elven cloak*, cursed scroll (3 INT) 

C. 5,000ep, eyes of petrification, hand axe +2* 

D. 5,000cp, scroll protection from undead, horn of 
bubbles 

E. S.OOOcp, scroll protection from magic, potions 
longevity, love philter 

F. 5,000gp, ring contrariness/levitation, necklace 
strangulation 

•The cloak and axe each have glyphs of fear upon 
them. 

49. PET: This door is always locked, and has an extra 
(hidden) lock above the handle (automatically found 
if Find Traps is attempted on the door, not just the 
lock). The lower (normal) lock operates the door, but 
the upper lock, if picked, allows the entire 10' square 
section of wall to pivot as a door. 

The room contains Parlee's pet hydra, Lazi (AC:5, 
M:9, HD:7, hp:56: 8 per head; #AT:7, D:d8@, 
THACO:13, STs:16, N, Lg) but no apparent treasure. 
Parlee cleans the room of valuables regularly, but 
unknown even to her, there is a medium sized wooden 
chest hidden in a hole in the center of the ceiling, held 
in place by easily movable slats. The hole, chest, and 
slats are hidden by a large lurker above, the size of the 
ceiling, which is dead and somehow stuck to it. It may 
(1 in 6 chance) be noticed as a lurker, but the fact of its 
demise may go unnoticed. It does not radiate heat, 
however, and if examined with all nearby heat sour 
ces extinguished, infravision will show that it is dead. 

The chest, when examined closely, will be found to 
be sealed carefully with silvered wax. It contains a 
continual darkness gem, a ring of spell turning, a 
wand of Illumination (70 charges, with command 
words on a scrap of parchment), and one trapped 
wraith (AC:4, MV:12/24, HD:5+3, hp:30, #AT:1, D:d61 
level drain, THAC0:15, STs:14, LE, Med). The wraith 
will get 1 surprise attack on any character manually 
opening the chest. If a knock spell is used from a 
distance, for example, no surprise will occur. The 
wraith will attack a cleric before another class should 
a choice become available. 

END OF LEVEL TWO. 


16 


LEVEL 3 


O 

o 

Q 


CO 


*- ft) 3 
<1> ^ TJ O 
*- O tj H 

o o -- ir 
Oq X ° 
C0 Q 0- 


CO 

'5 

55 


CO 

ft) 


§ (r) § O 

2c 







Scale: 1 square = 10 feet 



















































































Hydell, Part 2 


KEY TO LEVEL THREE 


50. LOUNGE: This lounge at the foot of the steps is 
similar to the others found in the complex, having 4 
small tables and lamps, a large table and chairs, 2 
couches, and a small wine cabinet. There are 30gp 
under the cushions of the couches. 

51. LABORATORY: There are stools, workbenches, 
bubbling experiments in progress, a burning 
fireplace, numerous large volumes of alchemy and 
magic (all are non-magical), and hundreds of arcane 
bits and pieces (skulls, strange rocks, etc.) all about 
this cluttered lab. An illusionist can identify most of 
the devices and items; nothing is of great value, al 
though a potion of gaseous form is finished and in a 
beaker near various poisonous liquids. 

52. TRAP: The room is empty. If the secret door is 
touched, the 3 hidden portcullises drop and a 
programmed Illusion begins, of a hostile, huge, an 
cient red dragon barging through one shaky wall, 
which will breathe at anyone looking at it. 

If the players are expecting an illusion and say that 
they are disbelieving, their saving throw may be made 
with a +6 bonus to the roll. Note that the "ancient 
huge" creature has an illusory 88hp, and has quite 
normal breath weapon capacities. 

This trap is to screen Dutch's escape should he 
need to exit hastily in this direction. 

53. CACHE: A V diameter circle on the north wall, 
nearly invisible, is a secret door protecting a niche 
containing 4 diamonds, each worth 5,000 gp. This is 
Dutch's escape money; if in flight, he will grab it on 
the way out if at all possible. 

54. EXIT:This rough tunnel is an escape route, leading 
500' to a hidden hatch in the woods near the complex. 

55. GUARDIAN: The northeast 20' square area is mag 
ical; it is a hallucinatory terrain covering a 10' deep pit 
with poison spikes on the bottom. The character(s) 
stepping on the area dispels the hallucination, and 
may save vs. wands to avoid falling in; otherwise, the 
number of spikes which strike is equal to the AC of the 
victim without shield or dexterity bonuses. Each hit 
does 3 points of damage and requires a separate save 
vs. poison (or die). 

The guardian, a fire giant skeleton, normally 
stays in the pit. If the terrain is dispelled, it will rise up 
and strike at any within 10' of its pit (it is 13' tall) with a 
huge club. The skeleton (AC:5, HD:6, hp:40, #AT:1, 
D:3d6) may be Turned as if a ghast] it has no treasure. 

56. HORDE: A permanent Illusion of walls makes this 
room seem to be 20' square; this area contains 2 large 
locked chests. Each is trapped with a glyph of ward- 
Ing (14 points electrical damage) and each contains 5,OOOsp 
and 2 potions of poison. The illusory walls will func 
tion in ail ways as real ones, unless they are detected 
as illusions and then disbelieved. 

The room is actually bigger, and 3 large chests 
are at the north end. They are each locked, trapped 


with the same glyphs but with the password written in 
llluslonary script (readable by illusionists only; see 
DM NOTESJon the lid of the center one. They each 
contain 5,000gp and: 

A. 20 Cgems, potions of extra healing & gaseous 
form; one cursed scroll: cloudklll (MU spell) 
fills the area. 

B. 20 Dgems, potions of polymorph self & speed; 
bracers of defenselessness (AC 12) 

C. 20 Cgems, potions of extra healing & poison; 
robe of useful items 

57. DEN: This richly furnished room is quite comfortable 
but contains no valuable items. 

58. INTRUDER ALARM: Although this room is empty, 
anyone opening the door triggers anotherprogrammed 
Illusion. The room appears to be a plush bedroom; a 
middle-aged man is in bed with his wife, and awakens 
to the opening door, pulls a wand out from under a 
pillow as his wife screams, and shoots fireballs at the 
intruders (for30 points each, save for 15). The il lusory 
characters will react normally to attacks (bleeding, 
etc.) but will continue screaming and shooting for the 
duration of the illusion (13 rounds). 

The noise will alert Dutch (hereafter) to make his 
escape. 

59. THE BOSS: This is the study of Dutch the Illusionist. 
He lives alone, but is never without his pet jaguar 
(AC:6,MV;15, HD:41, hp:25, #AT:32, D:d3/d3/d8+rear 
d4+1@ if front 2 hit, THAC0:15, STs:16, N, Lg). Both 
are awake, and if alerted, Dutch (with his valu- 
ables)and his pet will escape through a secret door, 
heading north. 

DUTCH: II LI3, ACM, hp:50, THAC0:16, STs:8, LE; 
Dex 18, bracers of defense AC4, ring of protection +2, 
cloak of protection +2, brooch of shielding (40hp 
charges), elven boots, wand of frost (52 charges), 
dagger +2/3 vs. small. 

To properly run Dutch, use the character sheet pro 
vided. If summoned bySlad, ParleeorTuke.hewillgo 
totheiraidandwill usehisspellsand items to the best 
of his ability. 

60. BEDROOM: This richly furnished but unremarkable 
bedroom contains nothing of great value. 

61. TUNNEL: This old musty tunnel is rarely used. In 
this first cave, a killer mimic (AC:7, MV:3, HD:9, hp:50, 
#AT:1, D:3d4, N, Lg; sticks to victim) is surviving by 
eating whatever wanders in. It has no treasure. 

62. DANGER: Through an odd symbiosis, a colony of 
brown mold (AC:9, D:4d8, grows + drains heat within 
5') is living here in a pile of brown pudding (AC6, 
MV:6, HD:1Q, hp:65, #AT:1, D:3d8, N, Lg; immune to 
all but fire, dissolves wood & metal). They also eat 
whatever wanders in, but one small diamond (25,000gp 
value) remains. 

HERE ENDS THE INVESTIGATION 


19 


DUTCH 



on 



NOT A PLAYER CHARACTER 


NPC ILLUSIONIST Dutch L 13 AC-4 hp 50 Align LE 


s 

13 

Carry +10#wt, Bars/gates 4% 

Bracers AC 4 

1 

17 


Cloak+2, ring+2 

w 

12 


AC rear: 0 

D 

18 

+3 Missile bonus, -4 defense bonus 


Co 

16 

SS 80% / Res 85% 


Ch 

18 

+35% reactions 



Saving Throws: 

Poison/Death 

7 

Petrification 

5 

Rods, etc. 

3 

Breath 

7 

Spells 

4 

+4 bonus (ring & cloak) included 


Potions: Extra Healing, Polymorph Self 


Other Magic Items: 

Ring +2, cloak +2, brooch of shielding: 40hp chg, 
elven boots, wand of frost: 52 chg 


PET: Jaguar (AC:6, MV:15", HD:4+1, hp:25, #AT:3+2, 
D:d3/d3/d8 plus 2 rear if front claws both hit, for 
d4+1/d4+1, THAC0:16, STs:17 


TO HIT: Strength and Dexterity adjusts included. 
Adjust for magic and situation bonuses/penaities. 


SPELLS: 

Change self (CIs, DR32r) 

Color spray (CIs, R13) 

Detect invis. (CIs, R13, DR 65r) 
Hypnotism (CIs R3, DR14r) 

Wall of Fog (CIs R3,DR18r) 

Blur (C2s, DR16r) 

Detect Magic £C2s, R6, DR 26r) 
Improved Ph. Fc. (C2s, R19, +2r) 
Invisibility (C2s) 

Misdirection (C2s, R3, DR 13r) 

Halluc. Terr. (C5r, R15) 
Non-detection (C3s, DR 13T) 
Paralysis (C3s, R13,2"sq/13HD) 
Spectral Fc. (C3s, R19, +3r) 

Emotion (C4s, R13) 

Improved Invis. (C4s, DR17r) 

Ph. Killer (C4s, R6.5, DR13r) 

Project image (C5s, R6Vi) 
Shadow Magic (C5s, R18) 

Program llius. (C6s, R13) 

Shades (C6s, R3", DR13r, 60%; 
earth elemental or cloud giant.) 


AC 10 987 654321 0 AC 

Hand: 67 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 

Missile: 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 


WEAPONRY: 

Weapons: 3 proficient, -5 NPP 
Proficient: dart, staff, dagger 
Weapons carried: 

+1 dagger, +2 vs. small, d4/d3 

Darts (12), fire rate 3, ranges 1%"/3'74%" 

Staff, D6/D6 


Human 


21 




CHARACTER GUIDE 


- 



CLASS 

CL/FTR 

CL/RNGR 

FTR/ILL 

FTR/TH 

FTR/M-U/TH 

LEVEL 

5/5 

5/5 

5/5 

5/5 

5/5/5 

NAME 

Para nor 

Clarke 

Morpeth 

Bigelow 

Ren 


Moonbeam 

Storm wind 

Gravel 

Tenpennv 

Greener 


Alignment 

CG 

LG 

LN 

N 

NG 

Alignment 

Race 

Vz Elf 

V4 Elf 

Gnome 

Halfling 

Elf 

Race 

hp 

45 

50 

30 

35 

30 

hp 

AC 

2 

2 

0 

5 

1 

AC 

Hear Noise 

2 

2 

4 

3 

3 

1d20 

ST vs Spell (+Wi$ adj) 

14 (+4) 

14 (+1) 

10 (-1) 

10 

12 


Doors 

3 

4 

2 

3 

2 


Secret Doors 

2 

2 

0 

0 

2 

1d6 

Surprised 

2 

1 

2 

2 

2 


Strength 

18/40 

18/81 

14 

16 

15 

S 

Intelligence 

9 

13 

15 

6 

18 

1 

Wisdom 

18 

15 

6 

9 

12 

w 

Dexterity 

9 

12 

18 

17 

15 

D 

Constitution 

15 

18 

9 

12 

7 

Co 

Charisma 

14 

6 

12 

16 

9 

Ch 

Potions 

Healing 

Healing 

Healing 

Healing 

Healing 



Fire Res 

Climbing 

Speed 

Poly S 

Flying 


Scrolls 

Cure Dis 

Res Fire 

Invis 10' 

P/Devils 

Mag Miss 



Raise D Cure Serious Knock 

Wounds 


OTHER NOTES 


Change S 
Color Sp 
Det Invis 
Wall Fog 

Impr PhF 
Invis 

Spect Fc 


PP 

60 

OL 

57 

FT 

45 

MS 

55 

HS 

51 

HN 

25 

CW 

75 

RL 

20 


Command 
Cure LW 
Cure LW 
Cure LW 
Det Magic 


Augury 
Find Tps 
Hold Pers 
Res Fire 


Slow Poison 


Cure 


Bless 
Cure LW 
Cure LW 
Cure LW 
Cure LW 


Augury 
Hold Pers 
Silence 15'r 
Speak With 
Animals 


PP 

55 

OL 

37 

FT 

40 

MS 

45 

HS 

41 

HN 

25 

CW 

90 

RL 

25 


Mag Miss 
Read Mag 
Sleep 
Sleep 
Invis 


22 















Hydell, Part 1 


Tournament Scoring Sheet 


Team Number. 


poasMsfon oHh^^rty^o count l forKjore i n NOTate8h l 0d nem ^ er ' ha ' ^ i,emS MUST be el,her used "P 
° r 

Encounter 

Number Items 

4. 


the 


10. 


12 . 

13. 

14. 

15. 
16 a. 

16b. 

16d. 

16e. 

18. 


GUARDROOM 

Guards 

JAILOR: 


SPIDERS: 


SHADOWS: 

REMAINS: 

WARMUP: 

Guards: 

ARMORY: 

DISPLAY: 

Guard: 

Guards: 

Guards: 

OFFICE: 

Captain: 

Adjutant: 

Desk: 


19. 

20 . 


STAIRS: 

SHAMBLER: 


: potion healing 
: 60 gp 

: potion extra healing 
50 gp 

1 C gem 
: 200 op 

20 sp 
8 ep 
4gp 

2 L gems 
scroll 2 spells 
200 gp 

60 pp 

potion healing 
2 C gems 
potion healing 
60 gp 

arrows +1 (5) 
chandelier 
6 C gems 
30 gp 
15 gp 
1 C gem 
80 gp 
1 C gem 
100 gp 
6 L gems 
longsword +1 
longsword +1 
longsword +2 
dagger +1 

wand of paralyzation 
shortsword +1 
halberd +1 
potion extra healing 
potion healing 
potion heroism 
potion plant control 
72 pp 
1 C gem 
If descended 
3,000 cp 
1,000 ep 

potion fire resistance 
scroll 4 spells 


Possible 

Actual 



Points 

Points 

Maximum 

Points 

400 




60 


#4 max: 

460 

800 



50 




100 


#7 max: 

950 


1 
1 
4 
4 

100 

2,700 

200 

300 

400 

200 

400 

60 

600 

20 

600 

30 

15 

100 

80 

100 

100 

300 

2,000 

2,000 

4,000 

500 

5,000 

2,000 

2,500 

800 

400 

500 

300 

360 

100 

1,000 

15 

500 

400 

3,000 


#10 max: 2,810 
#12 max: 500 
#13 max: 


#14 max: 
#15 max: 


600 

460 

600 


#16 max: 1,345 


#18 max:20,460 
#19 max: 1,000 


#20 max; 3,915 


Team's treasure points: 
plus 1,000 points per survivor: 

Team's total points: 


23 






Hydell, Part 2 


Tournament Scoring Sheet Team Number 


Please note the fate of each of the following (captured, slain, escaped...): 

IL3 Slad_IL7 Tuke--CL7 Parlee-IL13 Dutch- 

For ties, note the total playing time here:.hours.minutes 

List all treasures found, and their total value, (don't include magic item values; we'll do that). Remember 
that the items 
MUST be either used up or in the possession of the party to count for score, NOT stashed. 


Non-Magicai Treasures: 


gp value 


Magical Treasures: 


gp value 


24 









CLERIC/FIGHTER Paranor Moonbeam L5/5 AC 2 hp 45 Align CG VSEIf 


S 18/40 +1 to hit, +3 Damage; +10Q#wt, Bars/gates 20% 

i g 

W 18 +4 ST vs Mental Attacks 

D 9 

Co 15 +1 hp/die, SS 91% / Res 94% 

Ch 14 +10% reactions 


Plate & Shield 
AC rear: 3 


LANGUAGES: Common, elvish, gnoll, gnome, goblin, 
halfling, hobgoblin, orcish. 


Saving Throws 

(d20) 

Poison/Death 

9 

Petrification 

12 

Rods, etc. 

13 

Breath 

13 

Spells 

14 

Note +4 wisdom bonus 

Resist sleep/charm 30% 


Turn Undead (d20/d12) 

T Skeleton, Zombie, 
Ghoul 

7 Shadow 

10 Wight 16 Wraith 

13 Ghast 20 Mummy 


Abilities 

Secret doors 2/6 or 1/6 
Infravision 60' 


SPELLS: 

Command (CIs, R1", DR 1r) 

Cure LW (C5s) 1d8 
Cure LW (C5s) 1d8 
Cure LW (C5s) 1d8 
Detect Magic (Clr, R3", DR IT) 

Augury (C2r, 75%) 

Find Traps (C5s, R3", DR 3T) 

Hold Person (C5s, R6", DR 9r) 

Resist Fire (C5s, DR 5T) 

Slow Poison (CIs, DR 30T) 

Cure Disease (C1T) 

Prayer (C6s, R6", DR 5r) 

POTIONS: Healing, Fire Resistance 

OTHER MAGIC ITEMS: 

Scroll: Cure Disease, Raise Dead 
1 gem with Continual Light 

TO HIT:Strength and Dexterity adjusts included. 

Adjust for magic and situation bonuses/penalties. 

AC 10 987 654321 0 AC 

Hand: 56 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 

Device: 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 

Jl 

WEAPONRY: 

Weapons: 8 proficient, -2 NPP 

Proficient: Longbow, Flail, Halberd, Hammer, 

Mace, Spetum, Longsword, Two-handed sword 
Weapons carried: 

Longbow, fire rate 2, ranges 7/14/21, d6/d6 

Halberd, d10/2d6 

Mace, d6+1/d6 

Longsword, d8/d12 

Two-handed sword, dl2/3d6 

NORMAL EQUIPMENT:_ 


The wise but unpredictable Paranor is a good fighter, 
and often reminds companions of that fact. Heavily 
armed for battle, Paranor prefers to "fight first and cure 
later," to the occasional dismay of others. Cautioned 
by Clarke about the delicacy of the mission, Paranor 
will try to remain calm, but is sure to be in the thick of 
any fray. 



25 











CLERIC/RANGER 


Clarke Stormwind 


hp 50 


Align LG 


V& Elf 


L 5/5 AC 2 


s 

18/81 

+2 to hit, +4 Damage; +150#wt, Bars/gates 30% 

1 

13 


w 

15 

+1 ST vs Mental Attacks 

D 

12 


Co 

18 

+2/+4 hp/die; SS 99% / Res 100% 

Ch 

6 

-10% Reactions 


Saving Throws 

(d20) 


Turn Undead (d20/d12) 

Poison/Death' 

9 


T Skeleton, Zombie, 

Petrification 

12 


Ghoul 

Rods, etc. 

13 


7 Shadow 

Breath 

13 


10 Wight 16 Wraith 

Spells 

14 


13Ghast 20 Mummy 

Note: +1 wisdom bonus 



Plate & Shield 
AC Rear: 3 


LANGUAGES: Common, elvish, gnoll, gnome, goblin, 
halfling, hobgoblin, orcish 


Abilities 

Surprise 4/6, surprised 1/6 
Secret doors 2/6 or 1/6 
Infravision 30' 


SPELLS: 

Bless (Clr, R6", DR 6r) 

Cure LW (C5s) d8 
Cure LW (C5s) d8 
Cure LW (C5s) d8 
Cure LW (C5s) d8 
Augury {C2r, 75%) 

Hold Person (C5s, R6", DR 9r) 
Silence 15'r {C5s, R12", DR lOr) 
Speak w Animals (C5s, R3", DR 10r) 
Dispel Magic (C6s, R6") 

Remove Curse (C6s) 


POTIONS: Healing, Climbing 


OTHER MAGIC ITEMS: 

Scroll: Resist Fire, Cure Serious Wounds 
1 gem with Continual Light 


TO HIT: Strength and Dexterity adjusts included. 

Adjust for magic and situation bonuses/penalties. 

AC 10 987 654321 0 AC 

Hand: 4567 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 

Device: 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 


WEAPONRY 

Weapons: 7 proficient, -2 NPP 
Proficient: Longbow, Flail, Hammer, Staff, Longsword, 
Two-handed Sword, Trident 

Weapons carried: 

Hammer, fire rate 1, ranges 1/2/3, d4+1/d4 
Longsword, d8/d12 
Two-handed sword, d12/3d6 


NORMAL EQUIPMENT: 


Clarke is a famous fighter, trusted cleric, and sturdy 
companion in tight spots. He has few friends, as he 
picks on the faults of others too much, but with the best 
intentions. An exceptional character, Clarke ever seeks 
to prove his worth, failing to realize that his lack of 
friends is not a judgement of his abilities. 



ne 









FIGHTER/ILLUSIONIST Morpeth Gravel L 5/5 AC 0 hp 30 Align LN Gnome 


S 

13 

Carry +10#wt, Bars/gates 4% 

1 

15 

w 

6 

-1 ST vs Mental Attacks 

D 

18 

+3 Missile bonus, -4 Defense bonus 

Co 

9 

SS 65% / Res 70% 

Ch 

12 



Ring Mail +1, shield 
AC rear: 6 


Saving Throws 

Poison/Death 

11 

Petrification 

12 

Rods, etc. 

9* 

Breath 

13 

Spells 

10* 

*+2 Race/Con bonus included 

Note -1 wisdom penalty 


LANGUAGES: Common, dwarvish, gnome, goblin, 
half ling, kobold, and burrowing mammal 


Abilities: 

Infravision 60' 

Detect slope 8, unsafe floor 7, 
depth 6, direction 5 (on 1 dl0) 

SPELLS: 

Change Self (CIs, DR 17r) 

Color Spray {CIs, R 5") 

Det. Invisibility (CIs, R5'', DR 25r) 

Wall of Fog (CIs, R3", DR 5+2d4r) 

Improved Phantasmal Force (C2s, R11", Area 21 sq. ") 
Invisibility (C2s) 

Spectral Force (C3s, R11", Area 21 sq.'') 

POTIONS: Healing, Speed 

OTHER MAGIC ITEMS: 

Scroll: Invisibility 10' r 

TO HIT: Strength and Dexterity adjusts included. 

Adjust for magic and situation bonuses/penalties. 

AC 10 9 6 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 AC 

Hand: 67 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 

Device: 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 

Note: +1 bonus to hit kobold & gnoll; 

-4 defense AC bonus v$. bugbear, giant gnoll, ogre, troll. 

WEAPONRY 

Weapons: 6 proficient, -2 NPP 

Proficient: Battle axe, shortbow, dagger, dart, sling, short- 
sword 
Weapons carried: 

Shortsword, d6/d8 

Shortbow, fire rate 2, ranges 5/10/15, d6/d6 
Dagger, d4/d3 

9 Darts, fire rate 3, ranges 1 1/2'73'74 1/2", d3/d2 
Sling (& bullets), fire rate 1, ranges 5/10/20, d4+1/d6+1 

NORMAL EQUIPMENT:_ 


A leader of the gnomish Gravel clan, Morpeth's black 
humor usually smoothes his rare disagreements with 
friends. Though not Good, he can be counted on in a 
pinch, and often alternates between spells and ranged 
weapons during difficult battles. He has falsely affect 
ed a "cute little gnome" image where convenient, with 
several past successes. 



27 












FIGHTER/THIEF Bigelow Tenpenny L5/5 AC 4 hp35 Align N Halfling 


s 

1 

16 

6 

9 

+1 Damage: Carry +35#wt.; Bars/gates 10% 

W 


D 

17 

+2 Missile bonus, -3 Defense bonus 

Co 

12 

SS 80% / Res 85% 

Ch 

16 

+25% Reactions 


Saving Throws 


Poison/Death 

7* 

Petrification 

10 

Rods, etc. 

8* 

Breath 

12 

Spells 

9* 

*+3 Race/Con bonus included; 

Ring +1 included in all. 


Abilities 

If alone, surprise 4/6 


Leather Armor 
AC Rear: 8 


Thief Percentages 

Pick Pockets 60 

Open Locks 57 

Find/Rem Traps 45 

Move Silently 55 

Hide in Shadow ' 51 

Hear Noise 25 

Climb Walls . 75 

Read languages 20 

LANGUAGES: Common, dwarvish, elvish, 
gnome, goblin, halfling, orcish 


POTIONS: Healing, Polymorph Self 


OTHER MAGIC ITEMS: 

Ring of Protection +1; 

SCROLL: Protection From Devils 


The strong, dextrous Bigelow is not known for his 
brains. He prefers elven companions, but dislikes the 
ranger, Clarke, although the necessary trust is there. 
Bigelow purchased his special scroll after receiving a 
tip from his guild about the Hydell complex, and often 
voices second thoughts about the party's mission. 


TO HIT: Strength and Dexterity adjusts included. 

Adjust for magic and situation bonuses/penalties. 

AC 10 9 8 7 654321 0 AC 

Hand: 67 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 

Device: 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 

NOTE: add only +1 to ''hand" roll for Backstabbing 
(Thief hits at -3, but +4 for surprise/rear) 


WEAPONRY 


Weapons: 8 proficient, -2 NPP 
Proficient: Battle Axe, Light Crossbow, 
Shortbow, Dagger, Dart, Sling, Spear. 


Weapons Carried: 

Battle axe, d8/d8 
Dagger, d4/d3 

9 Darts, fire rate 3, ranges 1 1/2"/3"/4 1/2", d3/d2 
Sling (& bullets), fire rate 1, ranges 5/10/20, d4+1/d6t1 
Shortsword, d6/d8 


NORMAL EQUIPMENT: 












FIGHTER/MAGIC-USER/THIEF 


Ren Greener 


L 5/5 


AC 1 


hp 30 Align NG Elf 


S 

10 

Bars/gates 2% 

1 

18 


w 

12 


D 

15 

-1 Defense bonus 

Co 

7 

SS 55% / Res 60% 

Ch 

9 



Saving Throws 

Poison/Death 

12 

Petrification 

11 

Rods, etc. 

11 

Breath 

15 

Spells 

12 

Resist sleep, charm 90% 


Abilities: 

Infravision 60' 

Secret doors 2/6 
If alone, surprise 4/6 

SpellSU ¦ 

Magic Missile {CIs, Hit") 

Read Magic (Cl r, DR 10r) 

Sleep (CIs, R8", DR 25r) 

Sleep (CIs, R8", DR 25r) 

Invisibility (C2s) 

Web (C2s, R2.5", DR 10T) 

Dispel Magic (C3s, R12") 

POTIONS: Healing, Flying 

OTHER MAGIC ITEMS: 

1 gem with Continual Light 
Scroll: Magic Missile, Knock 

TO HIT: Strength and Dexterity adjusts included. 

Adjust for magic and situation bonuses/penalties. 

AC 10 9876 543210 AC 

Roll: 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 

Note: Add +1 when using longsword or longbow (elf) 
Note: Add only +1 when backstabbing. 

(Thief hits at -3, but +4 surprise/rear) 

WEAPONRY 

Weapons: 9 proficient, -2 NPP 
Proficient: Longbow, Light Crossbow, Dagger, Dart, 
Halberd, Lance, Sling, Longsword, Two-handed Sword 

Weapons carried: 

- Longsword, d8/d12 

Longbow, fire rate 2, ranges 7/14/21, d6/d6 
Dagger, d4/d3 

Sling (& bullets), fire rate 1, ranges 5/10/20, d4+1/d4 
NORMAL EQUIPMENT:_ 


THIEF Percentages 


Pick Pockets 55 

Open Locks 37 

Find/Rem Traps 40 

Move Silently 45 

Hide in Shadow 41 

Hear Noise 25 

Climb Walls 90 

Read Languages 25 


Bracers AC 2 
AC rear: 2 


LANGUAGES: Common, Elvish, Gnomish, Gnolt, 
Goblin, Halfling, Hobgoblin, Orcish 


Ren is the ninth child in a rich deepwoods family, all of 
whom are known as "Ren" to outsiders. An "average 
elf", Ren's strengths come from a wide range of skills 
learned over the years. Ren gets along with most char 
acters, and is known to be an active and versatile com 
panion, traveling very light for added stealth and 
mobility. 



29 












DM SUMMARY 


Your name:----- 

About the Adventure: 

1. Did you enjoy running this adventure:- 

2. What did you like most about it?- 

3. What did you like least about it?-- 

4. Was there anything unreasonable?--- 

5. Was there anything unfair?- 

6. Did you like the scoring system used? Why, or why not? 


Team number. 


About your Players: 

Please name the player that fits each of these categories as best you can; one runner-up may be 
mentioned. "None" is 
an acceptable answer, but try not to weasel out like that. And give names, please. 


Most argumentative: 

Best knowledge of rules: 

Most leadership: 

Played closest to alignment: 

Highest quality of general role playing: 

And finally, in choosing the best 3 players overall, give: 

your choices 


THEIR CHOICES 


THANK YOU! 

30 



















































PLAYER SUMMARY 


Your Name:- Team Number: 

About the Adventure: 

1. Did you enjoy running this adventure:_ 

2. What did you like most about it?_ 


3. What did you like least about it? 


4. Was there anything unreasonable? 


5. Was there anything unfair?_ 

6. Did you like the scoring system used?_ 

7. Do you have any suggestions about anything? 


About your Dungeon Master: * 

Please answer the next questions #1-3 with one of the following answers: Excellent, Good, Average, 
Below average, 
Poor. 

How would you rate your DM's knowledge of: 

1. the module used? _ 

2. the game rules? . _ 

How would you rate your DM overall? 

3. _ 

4. Name one thing that you know your DM did wrong;_ 


5. Talk with your teammates, and pick the best 3 players in your group. Tell your DM, and he will write 
them down along 
with his choices. 


THANK YOU! 

31 

































































¦ : 

f '• A ^ : = 


¦ . .. . •¦¦-¦!' ¦ 

, - . 

SiAft ? 1 C71 




















